the 

university  of 

Connecticut 

libraries 


hbl,  stx  TX     725.B75 

European  cookbook  for  American  horn 


3    T153    DDhlbm3 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://archive.org/details/eurocookOObrow 


THE  EUROPEAN 
COOKBOOK 

FOR 
AMERICAN  HOMES 


THE  ^EUROPEAN 

COOKBOOK 


FOR 


AMERICAN  HOMES 

(From  Italy,  Spain,  Portugal  and  France) 


y 


THE  BROWNS 

CORA,    ROSE    AND    BOB 


FARRAR  &  RINEHART 

INCORPORATED 


On  Murray  Hill 


New  Yor\ 


tfi 


1: 


Some   of  the  recipes  and  articles  contained  in 
this  boo\  appeared  in  the  N.  Y.  Herald  Tribune 


COPYRIGHT,   I936,  BY  CORA,  ROSE,   AND  ROBERT  CARLTON  BROWN 

PRINTED  IN*  THE   UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA 

BY   QUINN   fit   BODEN   COMPANY,   INC.,   RAHWAY,   N.    J. 

ALL   RIGHTS   RESERVED 


CONTENTS 


Boo{  One:  ITALIAN 

a  day's  menu 3 

appetizers 14 

soups,  paste,  rice  and  polenta     .       .       .       .       .       .  1 8 

FISH 35 

MEATS 38 

SAUCES 50 

VEGETABLES 54 

SWEETS     .                    62 

BREADS  AND  CAKES 68 

WINES 83 

Boo{  Two:  SPANISH 

MENUS 91 

SALUD  E  PESETAS! 98 

SOUPS  AND  STEWS 106 

FISH 121 

EGGS I35 

MEATS I43 

SAUCES   AND   GARNISHES 1 62 

VEGETABLES 173 

SALADS 187 

DESSERTS I92 

REFRESHING  DRINKS 206 

THE  BASQUE  KITCHEN .          .          .  208 

V 


vi  CONTENTS 

Boo\  Three:  PORTUGUESE 

O  JANTAR  ESTA  NA  MESA 217 

SOUPS 226 

FISH 23I 

EGGS 244 

MEAT  DISHES 245 

SAUCES 256 

VEGETABLES 258 

DESSERTS 260 

SWEET  SAUCES 268 

Boo\  Four:  FRENCH 

l'art  du  bien  manger 273 

appetizers     ....              283 

SOUPS 286 

FISH 298 

EGGS 312 

MEATS                                      319 

VEGETABLES 344 

DESSERTS 352 

DISTINCTIVE  DISHES 378 

ENGLISH    INDEX 383 

FOREIGN    INDEX 395 


Boo\  One 
ITALIAN 

Non  in  solo  pane  vivit  homo 
(Man  does  not  live  by  bread  alone) 


A  DAY'S  MENU 


A  TYPICAL  DAY'S  MENU 

Brea\jast  {Cafe) 

Coffee  with  hot  milk  (Cafie  Latte) 
Bread  and  butter  Honey 

Luncheon  (Colazione) 

Anchovies  and  black  olives 
Spaghetti  al  Burro  Scallopini  with  Zucchini 

Sparkling  Barbera 

Finocchi  dipped  in  oil  Formaggio  Gorgonzola 

Frutta  CafTe  Nero 

Dinner  (Pranzo) 

Fernet  Branca 

Antipasto  (Hors  d'Oeuvres) 

Minestrone  soup 

Fritto  Misto  Bread  sticks 

Polio  con  Funghi 

Est,  Est,  Est! 

Romaine  Salad  Bisque  Tortoni 

Cafle  Nero 

Strega 
3 


4  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Besides  the  characteristic  dishes  given  in  this  sample  day's 
menu  there  are  enough  Italian  specialties  to  make  sprightly  every 
one  of  the  thousand  meals  in  the  year:  succulent  sausages,  salami 
of  Verona,  mortadella  of  Bologna  (now  exported  in  cans); 
ravioli  in  every  imaginable  style;  chicken  livers  genovese;  copretto 
(kid);  the  maremma,  tortoise  and  wild  boar  of  Tuscany;  the 
fish  grills  of  Genoa;  Umbrian  baked  pudding  of  rice  and  chopped 
pigeon;  festive  fish,  eels,  frogs'  legs,  swordfish,  tuna,  mussels, 
Roman  red  mullet  (truglia),  frutti  di  mare,  octopus;  endless  rice 
dishes  (risoto) ;  corn  meal  mush  (polenta) ;  eggs  in  unbelievable 
array;  bistecca  (beef  steak);  exceptional  raw  hams;  osso  buco 
(marrow  bones);  animelle  (sweetbreads);  artichokes  and  car- 
doons,  pungent  squashes;  frittata;  almonds  and  walnuts  eaten 
green,  chestnuts  roasted.  Ices,  Neapolitan  and  tutti-frutti  ice 
creams.  Zabaglione.  Distinctive  wines  and  cheeses  from  every 
province:  pale  mahogany  Marsala  and  heady  Corvo  from  Sicily; 
Chianti,  Capri;  Parmesan  cheese,  Bel  Paese,  Stracchino,  Bra  and 
Southern  Caccio  Carvallo.  A  full  rainbow  of  figs,  a  cornucopia 
of  fruits.    Watermelons  red  as  lipsticks. 

Italy  is  the  bounteous  mother  of  all  continental  cooking  and 
her  range  of  viands  is  greater  than  that  of  any  other  country. 
She  has  held  her  classic  place  at  the  head  of  the  table  with  dignity 
and  charm  ever  since  Lucullan  days  when  solons  supped  on 
nightingales'  tongues  and  emperors  rewarded  chefs  with  whole 
cities  for  the  invention  of  a  single  dish.  Those  were  the  days 
when  the  soft  roe  of  sea  lampreys  brought  their  weight  in  silver 
and  the  illustrious  red  mullet  fetched  fifty  dollars  a  pound  in 
Rome.  Roman  gastronomes  dubbed  this  fine  pink-fleshed  fish 
"woodcock  of  the  sea"  and  thought  nothing  of  paying  two  or 
three  hundred  dollars  for  a  fat  specimen  of  the  rare  "sea-bird." 
It  was  prepared  at  the  table,  boiled  alive  in  a  big  glass  bowl  for 
the  guests'  delight  and  as  its  pink  flesh  turned  white  in  cooking 
and  it  rolled  agonized  eyes  up  to  fish  heaven  in  a  final  prayer 


ITALIAN  5 

Doets  were  wont  to  immortalize  it  in  toothsome  cantos.  Every 
3art  of  the  mullet  was  deemed  so  delectable  that  only  its  gills 
vvere  removed  and  not  eaten.  Its  liver  and  trail,  indeed,  were 
:he  choicest  parts,  reserved  for  emperors  and  served  up  in  style, 
dressed  with  sea-urchin  and  chicken  liver  sauce.  Today  mullet 
.s  more  often  fried  in  batter  than  boiled  alive  on  the  table,  but 
:his  sea  woodcock  has  lost  none  of  its  ancient  popularity. 
I  Alfredo's  in  Rome  is  the  place  to  eat  it  pinkly  perfect. 

Turbot  used  to  vie  with  mullet  for  the  favor  of  gormandiz- 
ng  Romans,  but  it  went  rapidly  out  of  fashion  when  the  custom 
;ame  into  vogue  of  throwing  unwanted  slaves  into  private  turbot 
jonds,  to  be  eaten  alive  by  the  ravenous  fish  even  as  Christians 
vvere,  in  lions'  dens. 

The  Romans  used  to  import  their  greatest  chefs  from  Sicily 
md  the  fame  of  Sicilian  cooks  rose  to  a  rhapsodic  fervor  which 
:aused  Cratinus  to  write 

There  lives,  I  fancy,  here  within  this  cave 
Some  perfume-seller,  or  Sicilian  coo\. 

Broccoli,  with  which  we  became  acquainted  only  in  this  cen- 
tury, was  popular  in  Caesar's  Gaul.  Parsley  was  recommended 
by  Pliny  as  good  for  the  liver.  The  Romans  were  great  salad 
eaters,  of  which  we  have  evidence  today  in  the  name  Romaine 
given  to  that  distinctive  variety  of  lettuce.  Great  gobblers  of 
greens  they  were,  so  the  phrase  "Eat  your  spinach!"  must  have 
been  familiar  in  Latin  long  before  Christ  was  born. 

The  French  cuisine  grew  directly  out  of  the  Italian,  and  very 
late  at  that.  Savarin  himself  admitted  that  modern  French 
restaurant  cooking  got  its  inspiration  from  its  Southern  neighbor 
and  that  before  the  year  eighteen  hundred  Paris  couldn't  hold  a 
holy  candle  to  Rome  as  a  gastronomic  solar  plexus.  And  beef- 
eating  London  with  its  Turk's  Head  and  Ye  Olde  Cocke  taverns 
gave  the  palm  as  well  to  the  original  Roman  ristorante. 


6  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

The  Italian  cuisine  is  based  on  tasty  pastes,  chiefly  macaroni, 
spaghetti  and  ravioli,  pepped  up  with  garlic,  peppers,  anchovies, 
olive  oil,  tomato  paste,  funghi  (mushrooms),  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  capers.  More  than  any  other  cuisine  it  depends  on 
accompanying  wines  and  fruits.  And  what  fruits!  Enormous 
Palermo  oranges  with  flaming  cheeks.  Mandarins  and  blood 
oranges,  sunkist  lemons  picked  ripe  and  hence  sweet  enough  to 
eat  out  of  hand.  Peaches  and  pomegranates  beyond  compare. 
A  luscious  melange  summed  up  in  the  Neapolitan  tutti-frutti  (all 
fruits),  which  we  have  taken  over  as  the  apt  name  for  fruit- 
flavored  chewing  gum. 

Fruit  is  the  national  dessert  from  Northern  Merano  where 
folks  go  to  take  the  grape  cure  and  linger  to  drink  the  new  Fall 
wine,  with  accompanying  chestnuts  and  dancing  in  the  streets, 
all  the  way  down  to  southernmost  Sicily  where  the  adage  about 
fruit  is  changed  to  "fruit  is  silver  in  the  morning,  golden  at  noon 
and  platinum  at  night."  Some  Italians  will  not  go  all  the  way 
with  this  slogan,  however,  for  though  they  all  gorge  on  fruit  at 
noon  it  is  commonly  served  as  a  compote  at  night.  Elaborate 
sweets  are  not  sought  in  countries  flowing  with  wine  and  honey, 
so  cakes,  ices  and  zabaglione  (wine-flavored)  are  the  standard 
desserts. 

North,  Central  and  South,  down  the  long  peninsula,  regional 
menus  vary  considerably,  of  course,  yet  the  daily  diet  of  a 
Piedmontese  is  substantially  the  same  as  that  of  a  Sicilian. 
Spaghetti,  macaroni,  vermicelli,  ribboned  fettuccini  (noodlelike), 
or  some  other  of  the  score  of  succulent  pastes,  spiced  with  garlic 
and  with  Parmesan  strewed  over  it,  is  almost  sure  to  appear  at 
the  noon  meal,  in  spite  of  Mussolini's  dictate  that  too  much  starch 
must  not  be  consumed,  for  fear  of  ruining  the  race  through 
indigestion.  The  rule  is  spaghetti  at  noon,  soup  at  night,  and 
since  spaghetti  is  considered  the  equivalent  of  soup,  both  paste 
and  potage  are  never  partaken  of  at  the  same  meal. 


ITALIAN  7 

Whatever  the  meat  course,  there  is  almost  sure  to  be  a  touch 
of  giblets  with  it,  or  in  the  sauce.  There  will  be  crusty  bread 
in  great  variety,  hearty  red  wine  and  a  fine  chunk  of  cheese 
wherever  you  lunch;  and  these  three  alone,  with  fruit  of  course, 
and  more  than  a  suspicion  of  garlic  rubbed  on  the  wholesome 
bread  or  slivered  into  the  salad,  make  a  meal  fit  for  modern 
centurions. 

Plenty  of  vitamins  in  this  menu,  provided  by  raw  vegetables 
and  fruits.  Sliced  tomatoes  and  peppers  take  the  place  of  our 
cooked  potatoes  and  corn.  Salad  is  served  as  a  matter  of  course, 
dressed  with  red  wine  vinegar,  juice  of  ripe  lemons  and  the 
tastiest  of  pale  green  olive  oil — that  from  Lucca  being  the  world's 
finest.  The  salad  is  snappy,  sharper  than  the  French,  and  so  are 
all  Italian  condiments,  excepting  only  the  exciting  French  vinegar 
flavored  with  tarragon.  Italian  mustard  is  spicier  and  hotter 
than  any  other  and  also  darker  in  color.  Even  the  Parmesan 
cheese  that  is  sprinkled  over  everything  is  highly  pungent,  livelier 
in  taste  than  any  other  powdered  cheese.  Mushrooms,  too,  (both 
funghi  and  cepes)  have  a  stronger  tang  than  the  standard  French 
champignon.  Pickled  cepes,  though  they  belong  to  the  mush- 
room family,  are  as  popular  as  the  giblets  of  all  animals  and 
provide  a  similar  exotic  touch  to  many  dishes — they  might  indeed 
be  called  vegetable  chicken  livers,  being  as  fat  and  meaty.  They 
are  golden  yellow  burnished  with  red,  but  often  too  rich,  a  bit 
too  coarse  and  slippery  for  our  palate. 

Besides  liking  his  food  au  naturel  the  Italian  eats  out-of- 
doors  when  the  weather  permits.  This  gusto  for  dining  al 
fresco  is  carried  even  into  the  heart  of  cities  where  robust,  deep- 
breathing  people  sit  at  table  in  sidewalk  restaurants  and  glass- 
covered  galleries  bustling  with  shoppers.  Or  in  city  gardens — 
we  remember  one  in  Rome,  with  tables  all  around  a  gold 
fish  pond,  adorned  with  a  marble  bust  of  that  great  feaster 
Aesophagus. 


8  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Cooking  is  done  primitively  still,  especially  in  the  Italian 
countryside,  over  charcoal  braziers,  on  spits  and  in  clay-covered 
bee-hive  ovens,  but  it  is  all  the  more  perfect  for  that.  A  country 
kitchen,  or  even  a  city  one,  is  not  as  clean  as  a  German  cook's, 
but  that  is  because  it  usually  serves  as  pantry  and  dining  room 
too.  This  room  where  the  cooking  is  done  is  the  true  heart  of 
the  home,  one  wall  ablaze  with  a  battery  of  tin-lined  pots  to 
prove  the  family's  generosity  of  appetite;  pots,  pans  and  gravy- 
catchers,  all  hanging  copper  side  out  to  reflect  the  fire  and  sun 
in  golden  glints.  These  utensils  are  dangerous  as  soon  as  they 
wear  through  to  the  copper  and  must  then  be  sent  to  be  retinned. 
Bunches  of  herbs  are  thrust  handy  in  smoke  blackened  rafters, 
there  are  dangling  braids  of  garlic  and  onions,  strings  of  pepper 
and  dried  mushrooms,  with  winking  demijohns  of  wine  both 
red  and  white  brightening  dark  corners.  A  grayish  block  of 
expensive  vintage  Parmesan  cheese  stands  beside  its  grater,  be- 
neath which  is  the  wooden  bowl  that  is  filled  with  fresh,  savory 
powdered  Parmesan  before  each  repast.  The  bowl  has  a  wooden 
spoon  to  match. 

Breakfast  is  scarcely  considered  a  meal,  since  it  follows  the 
slim  fashion  known  everywhere  as  Continental — although  really 
it  is  Latin,  for  neighboring  continentals,  the  Dutch,  for  example, 
eat  enormous  meat  breakfasts.  Throughout  Italy  the  fast  is 
broken  on  rising  with  blackish  coffee  mixed  with  hot  milk,  often 
rich,  creamy  goats'  milk,  and  a  slice  of  bread,  although  butter 
and  a  small  saucer  of  celestial  honey  are  added  if  the  breakfaster 
isn't  too  spartan  or  too  poor.  In  some  hardy  peasant  sections 
even  coffee  is  too  great  a  luxury,  so  the  farmer  roasts  several 
whole  heads  of  garlic  and  eats  it  with  his  bread.  But  be  it  noted 
that  the  roasting  of  garlic  takes  the  sting  out  of  it,  makes  it  taste 
syrupy  sweet,  a  miracle  with  which  we  are  familiar  in  roast 
onions. 

Luncheon  starts  with  antipasto  (appetizers)  including  salami 


ITALIAN  9 

and  a  curl  of  well-aged  ham,  anchovies  always,  sometimes 
wrapped  around  capers;  tuna,  pickled  mushrooms,  artichoke 
hearts,  olives  both  black  and  green,  cold  veal,  fish  mayonnaise, 
radishes,  fennel,  peppers  green  and  red;  and  whatever  this  hors 
d'oeuvre  consists  of,  each  tidbit  is  served  in  a  small  separate  dish 
and  drenched  v with  the  delicate  emerald  green  olive  oil  of  Lucca. 
Even  raw  vegetables,  such  as  celery  and  fennel,  are  dipped  in 
oil,  salt  and  pepper,  to  greatly  improve  their  relish.  Dry  white 
wine  is  drunk  with  the  antipasto,  the  favorite  types  being  Cortese 
and  Capri.  Antipasto  opens  the  appetite  for  the  paste  which 
often  is  filled  with  meat,  as  ravioli  and  timbales,  and  is  quite 
certain  to  be  seasoned  with  garlic  and  flavored  with  tomato.  The 
Italian  tomato,  pomodoro,  is  the  size  of  a  pigeon  egg,  meatier 
than  our  love  apple,  stronger  and  sharper  in  essence.  It  is 
pounded  to  a  pulp  and  sold  in  immense  cans,  always  shiny 
and  red. 

Baked  pastes,  usually  macaroni  or  thick  noodles,  are  also 
flavored  chiefly  with  tomato,  but  boiled  pastes,  generally  spaghetti, 
thin  tagliarini  (noodles),  or  vermicelli  the  size  of  string,  some- 
times appear  alia  burro,  dressed  with  sweet  butter  alone,  the 
butter  melting  quickly  into  the  steaming  dish.  Spaghetti  is 
ordered  alia  dente  by  the  knowing,  and  that  means  it  must  be 
cooked  a  minute  or  two  less  than  usual,  so  the  teeth  themselves 
may  test  its  virtue  and  grind  out  the  full  wheat  flavor.  Spaghetti, 
of  course,  must  be  boiled  to  order  and  served  on  the  instant,  for 
it  gets  soggy  and  flavorless  if  it  isn't  eaten  piping  hot  the  second 
it  is  done  and  the  sauce  mixed  with  it,  by  lifting  the  mass  several 
times  with  a  fork  and  a  spoon  to  let  the  excess  steam  escape 
and  thoroughly  impregnate  the  paste  with  its  luscious  gravy. 
Spaghetti  cooked  by  an  Italian  expert  is  as  light  and  fluffy  as 
pancakes,  it  is  dry  and  of  good  body,  even  its  steam  when  sucked 
into  the  mouth  has  a  hearty  savor  of  the  real  thing  and  reminds 
one  of  the  appetizing  exhalation  of  hot  homemade  biscuits. 


io     THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

The  bull-fighting  Spaniards  like  their  beef  when  it  has 
reached  maturity,  but  the  Italian  takes  his  in  the  shape  of  veal, 
as  young  as  he  can  get  it.  He  eats  tender  kid,  too,  before  it  has 
become  strong  goat;  and  this  seems  reasonable,  for  while  veal 
is  tough  and  hard  to  digest,  cavorting  kid  is  as  juicily  gelatinous 
as  suckling  pig.  But  the  Italian  chef  overcomes  the  difficulty  with 
veal  by  flaying  it  for  five  or  ten  minutes  before  he  dips  it  in  eggy 
bread-crumbs  and  tosses  it  in  the  frying  pan.  At  noon  Naples 
resounds  with  the  pounding  of  veal  cutlets  (scallopini) — the  town 
seems  to  be  peopled  with  trick  drummers,  practicing  intricate 
beats  and  trying  out  their  traps. 

Slices  of  lemon  garnish  scallopini  and  add  zest  to  all  fish 
dishes  besides.  Lemons  and  oranges,  in  fact,  helped  Italy  get 
her  cooking  head  start  of  France.  Bananas,  figs,  pears,  grapes, 
melons,  peaches,  pomegranates  did  their  share,  too,  for  Italy's 
cornucopia  is  not  only  full  to  the  brim  with  Southern  delicacies 
and  luxuries  of  food  but  overflows  with  wines  besides:  Muscatel, 
Malvasia,  Marsala,  Falerno,  Grignolino,  Salerno,  Frascati,  Orvieto, 
Asti  Spumante  and  Sparkling  Barberas  and  Nebiolos,  an  endless 
variety  of  them  from  top  to  toe  of  the  Italian  boot. 

To  finish  off  the  luncheon  we  have  Gorgonzola  cheese  (for- 
maggio  Gorgonzola)  richer  than  Roquefort.  A  ripe  banana 
goes  well  with  Gorgonzola;  because  of  the  resemblance  in  fruity 
flavor  each  supplements  the  other.  Caffe  nero,  bitter  black  coffee, 
is  prepared  in  a  unique  style  known  as  espresso,  in  city  restau- 
rants or  cafes.  A  demitasse  is  filled  from  a  big  nickel-plated 
steam  engine  that  expresses  the  essence  of  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  powdered  coffee  into  each  tiny  cup.  This  finishes  off  the 
luncheon  (colazione)  and  usually  is  accompanied  by  a  cigarette 
or  cigar.  But  tobacco  is  a  government  monopoly  here,  as  in  most 
Latin  countries,  so  the  cigarettes  are  worse  than  English 
"gaspers,"  almost  as  bad  as  French  Bleus.  Cigars  are  no  better; 
the  national  Toscani  is  brittle  and  badly  made,  its  draught  is 


ITALIAN  ii 

furnished  by  a  straw  thrust  down  the  center  and  the  puffs  are 
very  stingy  and  eye-reddening.  Though  matches  are  no  part  of 
the  meal,  and  shouldn't  even  be  used  for  toothpicks,  a  final 
smoke  is  the  last  course  for  many,  so  it  might  as  well  be  recorded 
that  Italy,  like  Spain  and  the  Argentine,  is  addicted  to  short  wax 
vestas  which  sputter  and  stench  and  burn  the  fingers  with  molten 
wax,  unless  you  are  very  adroit  in  handling  these  miniature 
Vesuviuses. 

No  dinner  in  the  world  can  improve  on  the  pranzo;  it  is 
a  classic  of  meals,  perfectly  balanced  and  taste  teasing,  straight 
from  the  elegant  antipasto  (appetizers)  through  the  minestrone 
(soup-of -soups)  and  the  mixed  fry  (fritto  misto),  with  its 
piquance  of  individual  portions  of  cheese,  kidney,  brains,  liver, 
scallops  of  meat  and  giblets,  a  spray  of  broccoli — all  coated  with 
rich  egg  batter  and  fried  golden. 

Italy  just  escapes  being  a  chicken-and-egg  country,  such  as 
Spain  and  Cuba,  for  a  polio  pranzo  (chicken  dinner)  is  relished 
as  much  as  it  is  anywhere  on  earth,  and  the  mushrooms  served 
with  the  fowl  make  it  all  the  more  delicious.  Then  the  sharp 
Southern  salad  of  admirable  greens  and  finally  a  matchless  bisque 
tortoni,  for  at  making  frozen  desserts  the  country  has  had  several 
thousand  years'  experience.  The  Roman  emperors  were  great 
consumers  of  ices  and  used  to  send  their  slaves  up  the  Apennines 
for  snow  to  cool  their  fruit  juices  on  hot  summer  days.  The 
iced  granate  or  granite  sipped  by  the  Caesars  is  even  more 
popular  today.  It  is  the  primitive  cooler  named  after  the  pome- 
granate from  which  it  was  first  compounded,  a  tall  tumbler  of 
shaved  ice  or  snow  covered  with  the  ruby  red  juice  of  the  fruit. 
A  splendid  modern  variant  is  granite  con  panna,  iced  coffee  and 
thick  cream;  but  all  flavors  and  fruit  juices  are  used.  The  granite 
is,  in  fact,  the  original  ice  cream  soda — so  we,  as  well  as  the 
French,  have  much  to  thank  Mother  Italy  for. 

The  sweet  orange  liqueur  of  Strega  is  drunk  with  the  coffee, 


12  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

or  in  its  place  a  thimble  of  the  cherry  elixir  Maraschino  from 
Dalmatia,  now  within  Italy's  borders.  These  liqueurs  top  of? 
the  meal — and  you  have  dined  well  in  Milan,  Venice,  Rome  or 
Messena.  Never  forgetting  the  wine,  which  stands  in  the  center 
of  the  table  throughout  the  splendid  repast;  a  half  gallon  flagon, 
or  better,  encased  in  gaily  colored  straw,  conveniently  held  in  a 
swivel-bottomed  silver  container  which  swings  the  bottle  to  the 
glass  of  each  guest  and  facilitates  the  pouring. 

The  true  Italian  flavor  can  be  achieved  only  by  the  use  of 
Italian  products,  either  imported  or  furnished  by  Italian-Ameri- 
can firms  which  supply  the  Italian  grocers  who  set  up  shop  in 
nearly  all  American  towns. 

The  most  important  ingredients  are: 

Olive  oil. 

Garlic.  A  little  is  always  enjoyed,  even  by  the  most  prejudiced, 
if  its  presence  is  not  suspected. 

Parmesan  cheese.  The  grated  Parmesan,  which  comes  in 
packages,  will  have  lost  much  of  its  flavor.  Any  Italian 
grocer  will  grate  it  on  request,  and  be  pleased  that  his 
particular  importation,  or  American  imitation,  is  appreciated. 

Tomato  paste.  This  concentrated  essence  saves  the  time  and 
trouble  of  reducing  tomato  juice  or  canned  tomatoes,  and 
gives  the  genuine  Italian  tang,  besides  being  economical.  It 
can  be  bought  by  weight  out  of  big  containers,  always  open 
and  at  hand  in  Italian  groceries. 

Salted  anchovies.  These  can  also  be  bought  by  weight  out 
of  big  tins.  They  cost  a  fraction  of  the  price  and  are  better 
for  cooking  than  the  kind  that  come  in  bottles,  preserved 
in  oil.  They  must  lie  in  cold  water  1-2  hours,  to  extract  the 
salt,  before  being  skinned  and  boned. 


ITALIAN  13 

Dried  mushrooms.  A  few  ounces  kept  in  an  open  jar,  over 
which  a  cloth  may  be  tied,  are  convenient  for  those  recipes 
which  call  for  a  little  mushroom  flavoring.  Soaked  for  sev- 
eral hours  and  then  minced  and  added,  with  their  liquor, 
to  sauces  or  soups,  they  have  a  higher  flavoring  value  than 
fresh  mushrooms.  A  little  goes  a  long  way,  and  thus  they 
are  more  economical  than  the  fresh  ones. 

For  the  antipasto  plate,  there  are  tuna  fish,  pickled  peppers, 
canned  cepes,  and  Italian  sausages. 

Herbs,  especially  basil,  for  flavoring;  red  wine  vinegar  for 
salads;  pine  nuts  for  special  dishes;  the  best  of  salt  codfish; 
spaghetti  and  other  pastes,  properly  made  from  hard  wheat; 
Gorgonzola  and  other  imported  cheeses ;  and  hearty  hearth  bread, 
which  should  go  with  every  Italian  menu. 


APPETIZERS 

(Antipasto) 


PISSALADEIRA 

8  salt  anchovies  Onion  rings 

l/i  standard  recipe  bread  dough  Thin  slices  cheese 

Olive  oil  Thin  slices  tomato 

i  dozen  stoned  olives  Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  anchovies  in  cold  water  two  hours;  clean  and  take  of? 
the  fillets.  Pat  out  bread  dough  i  inch  thick,  to  fit  a  round  pan 
about  one  foot  in  diameter.  Oil  the  pan  with  olive  oil,  lay  in 
the  dough  and  let  it  rise.  Decorate  the  top  with  onion  rings, 
tomato  slices,  and  cheese  slices;  arrange  the  anchovy  fillets  and 
olives  attractively  in  the  open  spaces  between  the  slices,  and  lay 
some  within  the  onion  rings  and  on  top  of  the  tomato  slices. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  generously  with  olive 
oil.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (4000  F.)  20  minutes. 

This  is  a  Neapolitan  specialty,  but  is  also  found  all  along 
the  Riviera,  where  it  is  made  and  consumed  by  the  fishermen. 
From  the  spelling  of  the  name  it  evidently  originated  with  the 
Portuguese  who  once  fished  the  Mediterranean.  The  pain  baig- 
nade,  open-faced  sandwich,  made  of  half  a  split  hearth  loaf,  cov- 
ered with  tomato,  onion  slices,  olives,  and  anchovies  and  sprinkled 
with  anchovy  oil,  is  a  quick  version  of  the  pissaladeira.  This 
sandwich  is  familiar  to  tourists,  for  it  is  served  to  bathers  on  the 
beaches  of  the  Italian  and  French  Rivieras. 


14 


ITALIAN  15 

ANCHOVY  CANAPES 

Salted  anchovies  Rounds  of  hearth  bread 

Butter  Green  olives,  chopped 

Grated  Parmesan 

Soak  anchovies  2  hours  in  cold  water;  rub  off  skin  and  strip 
fillets  from  the  bones.  Mash  several  anchovies  to  a  paste;  mix 
with  melted  butter,  strain.  Heat,  and  quickly  fry  bread  brown 
on  both  sides.  Cover  fried  bread  with  anchovy  fillets,  sprinkle 
with  the  chopped  olives,  and  then  with  Parmesan.  Place  for  a 
moment  under  grill  for  cheese  to  color,  and  serve  hot. 

ANCHOVY  SALAD 

THE    SALAD 

i  pound  salted  anchovies  1  pickled  beet,  diced 

1  onion,  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  capers 

Vi  green  pepper,  chopped  fine  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 

THE   DRESSING 

i  cup  Italian  olive  oil  XA  teaspoon  sugar 

%  cup  red  wine  vinegar  Pepper,  freshly  ground 

THE    GARNISH 

3  hard-boiled  eggs,  quartered  1  tablespoon  capers 

Lettuce  leaves  1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 

Water  cress  1  onion,  chopped  fine 

2  pickled  beets,  diced 

Soak  the  salted  anchovies  over  night,  rub  off  skin,  remove 
bones  by  stripping  each  anchovy  carefully  down  the  center.  Dry 
them  and  place  in  salad  bowl.    Add  all  other  salad  ingredients. 

Thoroughly  beat  together  the  olive  oil,  vinegar,  sugar  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  anchovies  and  let 
stand  30  minutes,  turning  and  making  sure  that  each  anchovy 
absorbs  all  the  dressing  it  can  hold. 


i6  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Then  lay  out  the  anchovies  on  a  platter  in  criss-cross  design, 
and  pour  the  remaining  dressing  over  them.  Add  a  little  clear 
green  olive  oil  and  garnish  with  eggs,  lettuce  and  water  cress, 
piling  up  beets,  capers  and  pepper  in  contrasting  colors. 

Serve  with  crusty  Italian  bread. 

Anchovies  bottled  in  oil  may  be  substituted,  California 
pilchards  or  any  sardines,  but  the  salad  will  not  be  as  tasty  as  it 
is  when  made  of  the  salted  anchovies  shipped  from  Italy  in  huge 
tins  and  sold  cheaply  in  every  Italian  quarter. 

DRESSING  FOR  FISH  AND  SEA  FOOD  SALADS 

i  slice  stale  bread  Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed  12  ripe  olives,  pitted 
Vinegar  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

2  dozen  pinenuts  1  cup  olive  oil 
2  tablespoons  capers  Salt 

4  anchovy  fillets  Pepper 

Cut  crusts  from  bread,  rub  it  with  garlic  and  sprinkle  with 
sufficient  vinegar  to  moisten.  Put  through  a  food  chopper,  using 
finest  knife,  with  pinenuts,  capers,  anchovy  fillets,  egg  yolks, 
olives  and  parsley.  Work  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then 
pass  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Stir  in  olive  oil  until  all  used. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  more  vinegar  if  desired. 
Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  This  dressing  is  suitable  for  a 
salad  of  this  type. 

Equal  amounts  of  flaked  cooked  fish  and  finely-cut  cooked 
vegetables  moistened  with  French  dressing,  perhaps  with  the 
addition  of  anchovies  and  cooked  shrimp.  Garnish  elaborately 
with  cooked  vegetables,  green  salad,  tomatoes  and  hard-boiled 
eggs. 


ITALIAN  17 

CROSTINI  OF  CHICKEN  LIVERS 
{Crostini  di  Fegatini  de  Polio) 

12  chicken  livers  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  fat  ham,  minced  Olive  oil 

1  scallion,  minced  2-3  mushrooms 

Yz  teaspoon  minced  parsley  Meat  broth,  heated 

l/2  small  carrot,  minced  1  teaspoon  bread  crumbs 

l/z  celery  stalk,  minced  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
Sippets  of  dry  bread 

Carefully  remove  galls  from  livers.  Make  a  bed  of  ham  and 
vegetables  in  sauce  pan.  Season;  sprinkle  with  oil  and  simmer. 
Lay  livers  and  mushrooms  on  top  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Take 
up  mushrooms  and  livers,  mince,  and  return  to  pan.  Moisten 
with  broth  and  simmer  2  minutes,  stirring  once  or  twice.  Add 
crumbs,  and  lemon  juice,  and  mix  well,  adding  a  little  more 
broth  if  necessary.  Serve  on  just  enough  bread  sippets  to  absorb 
the  sauce. 

The  French  canape  sometimes  makes  its  appearance  in 
Italian  hotels  under  the  name  of  Crostini.  But  the  true  Crostini 
is  an  open  hot  sandwich  of  more  substantial  form.  It  takes  the 
place  of  the  antipasto,  or  hors  d'oeuvres,  is  included  in  the  divi- 
sion of  the  dinner  termed  Principii,  and  is  served  after  the  soup. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS 

1  pint  small  button  mushrooms      1  blade  mace,  broken 
1  teaspoon  salt  1  garlic  clove,  quartered 

1  teaspoon  peppercorns  Vinegar 

Rub  mushrooms  clean  with  a  cloth  wet  in  vinegar,  and  cut 
off  stems.  Pack  in  a  glass  jar,  scattering  in  salt,  peppercorns, 
mace  and  garlic.  Cover  with  vinegar,  close  jar  and  set  away 
for  2  days.    Serve  with  Italian  antipasto. 


SOUPS,  PASTE,  RICE  AND  POLENTA 

(Zuppa,  Pasta,  Riso,  e  Polenta) 


MINESTRONE  SOUP 

*4  pound  bacon,  chopped  i  celery  stalk,  sliced 

*4  pound  ham,  chopped  %  cup  rice 

or  a  ham  bone  Salt  and  pepper 

1Y2  quarts  meat  broth  %  head  cabbage,  chopped 

1  large  onion,  chopped  1  cup    green    vegetables,    mixed 
1  large  tomato,  chopped  (peas,     lima     beans,     green 

Yz  cup  navy  beans,   soaked  beans,   asparagus   tips,   etc.) 

Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Fry  bacon,  ham  and  onion  together,  slowly,  until  lightly 
browned.  Add  all  other  ingredients  except  cabbage,  green  vege- 
tables and  Parmesan  cheese.  Simmer  and  skim  until  beans  are 
tender.  Add  cabbage  and  vegetables.  Simmer  until  cooked, 
and  the  minestrone  is  thick.  The  addition  of  a  skinned  and 
chopped  Italian  sausage  is  an  improvement.  Serve  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  Parmesan  cheese  in  each  soup  plate. 

This  cross  between  a  stew  and  a  soup  is  native  to  Milan,  but 
is  encountered  all  over  Italy,  with  many  variations  depending  on 
the  products  of  the  district  and  the  resources  of  the  larder. 

PUMPKIN  SOUP 
{Zuppa  di  Zucca) 

1  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  pumpkin,  diced  3  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar  Salt 

Croutons 
18 


ITALIAN 


19 


Add  water  to  pumpkin,  sugar,  and  butter,  and  cook  slowly 
until  very  tender,  adding  a  little  more  water  if  necessary.  Press- 
through  a  sieve.  Heat  milk  to  boiling:  add  pumpkin,  season 
with  a  very  little  salt;  heat,  and  serve  with  croutons.  Can  be 
instantly  prepared  with  canned  pumpkin. 

This  is  a  fast-day  soup  of  Northern  Italy,  served  by  the 
peasants  as  a  course  of  the  light  evening  meal. 

FROG  SOUP 

(Zuppa  di  Ranocchi) 

1  sprig  basil 


1  dozen  frogs 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  garlic  clove,  minced 
1  small  onion,  minced 
1  small  carrot,  minced 
1  sprig  parsley 


1  sprig  celery 

1  tomato,    chopped 

2  mushrooms,  chopped 
Salt  and  pepper 
2  tablespoons  sifted  bread  crumbs 

Fingers  of  toast 

Separate  the  frogs'  hind  legs.  Cut  up  all  other  edible  por- 
tions, including  the  livers.  Heat  oil;  add  garlic,  onion,  carrot, 
and  herbs.  Fry  slowly  until  slightly  colored.  Add  tomato  and 
mushrooms.  Add  cut-up  portions  of  frogs  and  3  pints  cold 
water.  Bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmer  until  meat  is  falling 
from  bones.  Strain.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  hind 
legs,  simmer  until  tender;  add  crumbs;  serve  with  fingers  of  toast. 

ANALONI,  PARMA  STYLE 
(Anolini  alia  Parmiagana) 


Yz  onion,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  butter 
8  peppercorns 

1  herb  bouquet 

2  pounds  soup  meat 

Ys  pound  salt  pork,  chopped 
2  quarts  cold  water 


Yz  cup  sifted  crumbs,  toasted 

Yz  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

1  grating  nutmeg 

1  egg  white,  well  beaten 

1  standard  recipe  noodle  dough 

1  cup  rose  wine  (or  light  red) 

1  teaspoon  salt 


20  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Slowly  fry  onion  in  butter  until  golden  brown.  Add  pepper- 
corns, herb  bouquet,  soup  meat  and  salt  pork.  Cover  with  the 
cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  Add  salt,  skim  and 
simmer  5  hours. 

Make  a  filling  of  the  crumbs,  Parmesan  cheese,  nutmeg  and 
egg  white. 

Roll  noodle  dough  very  thin,  cut  out  2-inch  scalloped  circles. 
Put  spoonsful  of  the  filling  in  center  of  each  circle  and  fold  over, 
sealing  *  edges  together  securely. 

Strain  broth,  bring  to  a  fast  boil,  add  wine  and  cook  stuffed 
paste  in  this  for  5  to  7  minutes. 

This  broth  serves  for  any  soup  in  which  pastes  are  to  be 
cooked.  If  the  meat  has  been  larded  with  the  pork,  it  may  be 
browned  with  the  onions  and  served  with  a  sauce  the  next  day, 
as  is  done  in  Italy. 

LITTLE  COCKED  HATS 

(Cappelletti  alia  Romagna) 

*4  pound   chicken   or   veal,  1  dash  allspice 

cooked  1  grating  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  eggy  well  beaten 

*4  pound    raviggiolo    or    cream      1  egg  yolk,  well  beaten 

or  cottage  cheese  1  standard  recipe  noodle  dough 

3  tablespoons    Parmesan    cheese,      2  quarts  chicken  broth 

grated 

Slightly  brown  the  meat  in  the  butter,  and  grind.  Mix  with 
both  cheeses,  the  spices,  egg  and  egg  yolk  and  work  all  together 
thoroughly.  Roll  out  noodle  dough  to  about  Y$  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Cut  in  2V2  inch  rounds.  Place  a  small  amount  of  the 
filling  in  the  center  of  each  and  fold,  sealing  edges  securely. 
Cook  from  5  to  7  minutes  in  the  chicken  broth  which  has  been 
heated  to  boiling  and  serve  hot  with  the  broth  in  soup  plates. 

This  is  a  special  Christmas  and  holiday  dish. 

*  Press  edges  together,  moistening  with  a  little  water  if  necessary. 


ITALIAN  21 

TORTELLINI,  BOLOGNA  STYLE 

(Tortellini  alia  Bolognese) 

2  ounces  bacon  2  eggs 

1V2  ounces  mortadello  Dash  of  nutmeg 

(Bologna  sausage)  Ravioli  paste  (see  recipe) 

4  ounces  beef  marrow  2  quarts   clear   soup 

Finely  grind  bacon  and  mortadello  together;  work  marrow 
to  a  cream;  mix  together  and  work  to  a  paste.  Add  egg  and 
nutmeg,  (use  no  other  seasonings)  and  mix  well.  Roll  paste 
thin;  cut  in  i^-inch  circles.  Spread  some  of  paste  on  one  disk 
and  cover  with  another,  pressing  edges  together  with  fingers 
until  all  are  used.  (Edges  of  disks  may  be  slightly  dampened 
with  water.)  Let  stand  at  least  15  minutes.  Drop  into  boiling, 
rich,  well-flavored  clear  soup;  cook  8  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

The  filling  of  Bologna  is  rich  and  nourishing;  so  Professor 

Artusi  attributes  to  its  goodness,  and  to  the  influence  of  the 

healthful  climate,  the  fact  that  so  many  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 

Bologna  district  live  to  see  eighty  and  even  ninety  years.    The 

excellent  mortadella,  or  Bologna  sausage,  is  often  credited  to 

the  Germans,  who  prepare  it  nicely.    But  the  true  Bologna  is 

made  in  the  Italian  city  which  gives  it  its  name.    It  is  exported 

to  America  in  tins,  already  sliced  and  ready  for  the  antipasto 

platter. 

r  PLAIN  SPAGHETTI 

4  quarts  rapidly  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  salt 

1  pound  spaghetti 

Hold  the  ends  of  a  handful  of  spaghetti  in  the  salted  water 
and  as  it  softens  let  the  entire  lengths  slide  in.  Repeat  until  all 
is  in  the  pot.  While  doing  this  the  water  must  continue  its  rapid 
boiling.  The  time  of  cooking  depends  on  the  quality  of  the 
flour  from  which  it  is  made,  also  the  thickness  of  the  spaghetti, 


22  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

and  personal  taste.  The  poorer  the  spaghetti,  the  more  quickly 
it  cooks.  The  test  of  pinching  a  strand  with  the  ringers  should 
be  applied;  if  it  feels  firm  but  still  pinches  in  two  easily,  it  is 
done  alia  denti.  If  it  is  soft  and  separates  almost  without  pres- 
sure, it  is  ready  as  many  Americans  like  it.  The  time  will  vary 
from  12  to  1 8  minutes.  Drain  in  a  colander,  and  dash  through 
it  a  cup  or  more  of  cold  water  to  firm  it.  Serve  in  any  of  the 
following  manners: 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  BUTTER 

{Spaghetti  al  Burro) 

Turn  the  cooked  spaghetti  into  a  hot  dish.  Put  into  it  % 
cup  of  sweet  butter,  sprinkle  over  it  %  cup  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  lift  and  move  it  about  with  fork  and  spoon  until 
thoroughly  melted  and  mixed. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  ANCHOVIES— I 

Soak  8  salted  anchovies  for  2  hours  in  plenty  of  water; 
remove  the  skin,  tails  and  bones,  and  shred  the  meat.  Mix  with 
Spaghetti  al  Burro. 

SPAGHETTI  NEAPOLITAN  STYLE 

(Spaghetti  alia  Napoli) 

i  onion,  chopped  i  cup  meat  broth 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  i  cup  tomato   juice  or 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  l/z  cup  tomato  paste  and 

3  tablespoons  minced  ham  Vi  cup  water 
2  slices    highly    spiced    sausage,  Salt  and  pepper 

chopped  Cooked  spaghetti  (see  recipe) 

6  mushrooms,    chopped  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  golden.  Add  ham,  sausage 
and  mushrooms  and  continue  frying.  Add  broth  and  tomato 
juice  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Cover  closely  and  sim- 


ITALIAN  23 

mer  until  all  ingredients  are  blended.  Pile  cooked  spaghetti  on 
a  hot  platter,  pour  sauce  in  the  middle  and  sprinkle  generously 
with  Parmesan  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

1  onion,  chopped  1  cup  meat  broth 

1  garlic  clove,  chopped  x/i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  tomato  juice  Cooked  spaghetti  (see  recipe) 

Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  olive  oil  until  golden.  Add  tomato 
juice,  meat  broth  and  parsley  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  with  cooked  spaghetti  and  sprinkle  liberally  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  ANCHOVIES— II 

{Spaghetti  con  Acciughe) 

Soak  and  fillet  l/2  dozen  salt  anchovies.  Shred  them  and 
heat  in  J4  cup  olive  oil.  Add  J4  cup  tomato  puree  and  2  table- 
spoons butter.    Heat  and  pour  over  freshly  cooked  spaghetti. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  LIVER 

Yi  inch  slice  beef  or  pork  liver      2  cups  hot  water 
1  onion,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon   butter  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

l/2  cup  tomato  pulp  Cooked    spaghetti    (see   recipe) 

Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Remove  skin  and  veins  from  liver  and  cut  in  dice.  Slowly 
fry  onion  in  butter  until  it  begins  to  brown.  Add  liver  and  cook 
5  minutes.  Add  tomato  pulp,  hot  water,  seasonings  and  parsley, 
and  simmer  20  minutes.  Have  spaghetti  drained  and  very  hot. 
Add  liver  and  its  sauce,  mix  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese. 


\ 


24  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SPAGHETTI  ST.  REMO 

3  tablespoons  fat  l/z  cup  water 

1  onion,  chopped  x/i  teaspoon  salt 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  Few  grains  pepper 

%  pound  mushrooms  Few  drops  Worcestershire  sauce 

1^2  cups  tomato  soup  Cooked   spaghetti    (see   recipe) 

Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Melt  fat,   add  onion,  garlic  and  mushrooms,   peeled   and 

thinly  sliced.    Cook  until  brown,  about  10  minutes.    Add  soup, 

water,   salt,   pepper   and   Worcestershire.     Simmer   5   minutes. 

Drain  spaghetti  well  and  arrange  piping  hot  on  serving  dish, 

pour  sauce  over  it  and  sprinkle  generously  with  grated  Parmesan 

cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  FLORENTINE 

Mix  cooked  chopped  chicken  livers  and  minced  green 
peppers  with  cooked  hot  spaghetti  and  serve  with  plenty  of 
tomato  sauce  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Other  meats,  as  well 
as  chopped  cooked  mushrooms,  may  be  substituted  for  the 
chicken  livers. 

Spaghetti  table  manners  are  no  better  than  corn-on-the-cob 
tactics,  or  maneuvers  with  a  juicy  mango,  which  really  should 
be  eaten  in  the  bath  tub.  Emily  Post  would  be  horrified  to  see 
how  spaghetti  is  gargled,  guzzled  and  goozled  according  to  the 
etiquette  of  each  Italian  province.  The  trick  is  indeed,  to  keep 
stray  ravellings  of  it  from  slipping  down  the  corsage  or  into  the 
shoe.  Some  wrap  it  around  a  dessert  spoon  or  whirl  it  fast 
around  a  fork,  pop  it  into  the  mouth  and  bite  it  off.  Others 
make  a  game  of  it,  like  diabolo,  or  they  catch  the  end  of  one 
starchy  string  and  englut  it  endlessly,  like  a  cat  playing  with  a 
spool  of  thread.  Only  Anglo-Saxons  either  break  it  to  awkward 
bits  or  chop  it  off  in  short  mouthfuls  with  knife  and  fork. 


ITALIAN  25 

Caruso  was  one  of  the  neatest  spaghetti  eaters  we  ever  saw, 
and  today  a  brand  of  his  favorite  paste  is  named  in  his  honor. 
Members  of  Italian  opera  companies  are  always  half-starved  dur- 
ing the  performance,  since  it  is  necessary  to  sing  on  an  empty 
stomach.  But  they  make  up  for  this  after  the  show  by  holding 
back-stage  banquets,  and  spaghetti  is  often  the  piece  de  resistance. 
We  saw  Caruso  at  one  of  these  feasts  in  Chicago,  in  the  early 
years  of  this  century.  He  just  dipped  informally  into  the  main 
dish,  snagged  out  a  hank  of  spaghetti  highly  colored  with  tomato 
gravy,  lifted  it  dripping  the  whole  arm's  length  above  his  head 
and  let  it  glide  luxuriously  down  his  musical  throat. 

MACARONI,  VERMICELLI,  TAGLIARINI,  AND 
OTHER  PASTES 

The  cooking  time  varies  from  5  minutes  for  the  hair-like 
vermicelli,  to  a  half  hour  for  the  thickest  of  the  macaronis.  They 
can  be  served  like  spaghetti;  can  be  added  to  soups;  or  special 
dishes  can  be  made  with  them  from  the  following  suggestions: 

BAKED  MACARONI 

In  a  buttered  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  cooked  macaroni 
with  layers  of  minced  meat  in  plenty  of  gravy;  fowl,  veal,  beef, 
or  ham,  all  well  seasoned;  or  chopped  stewed  mushrooms  in  a 
tasty  sauce  of  their  own  liquor,  thickened  slightly. 

Cauliflower  flowerettes  in  plenty  of  thin  cream  sauce  made 
yellow  with  butter  and  flavored  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
can  be  used  instead  of  the  meat  ragouts;  creamed  onions  can 
be  used  in  the  same  way;  always  remembering  that  macaroni 
will  absorb  a  great  deal  of  liquid,  and  the  finished  dish  must 
be  moist. 

Or,  seasoned  tomatoes  in  thin  slices  may  be  laid  between 
the  layers  of  macaroni,  when  the  dish  must  be  filled  with  tomato 
sauce. 


26  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Or,  simply,  slices  of  yellow  cheese  may  alternate  with  the 
macaroni  layers,  when  the  dish  is  filled  with  milk. 

Always  finish  with  a  generous  sprinkling  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
a  sprinkling  of  bread  crumbs,  and  dots  of  butter.  Bake  until 
nicely  brown. 

'  VERMICELLI 

Vermicelli  combines  happily  with  fish.  Serve  cooked  vermi- 
celli like  spaghetti  with  anchovies  (see  recipe). 

Or,  combine  minced  fish  and  minced  olives  with  tomato 
sauce,  and  prepare  and  cook  like  baked  macaroni.  Tinned 
tunny,  or  poached  and  boned  smelts  are  often  used  in  this  way 
in  Italy. 

J  TAGLIARINI 

These  Italian  noodles  are  best  prepared  like  spaghetti  al  burro 
(see  recipe). 

In  England  spaghetti  and  macaroni  usually  appear  on  the 
menu  as  vegetables,  and  for  a  while  this  gave  rise  to  odd  con- 
ceptions on  the  part  of  tourists  unfamiliar  with  Italy's  pastes. 
Some  visioned  waving  fields  of  spaghetti  standing  ripe  and 
ready  for  the  harvester's  scythe,  others  thought  the  hollow 
macaroni  was  some  kind  of  thick-stemmed  water  reed,  but  thanks 
to  Italian  immigration  these  specialties  are  now  as  familiar  as 
German  noodles.  So  nowadays  no  one  is  likely  to  fall  into  the 
error  of  ordering  a  plate  of  new-mown  spaghetti. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  making  of  macaroni  was  a  secret 
held  within  Italy  until  the  fourteenth  century,  when  it  was  in- 
troduced into  France.  The  history  of  the  discovery  of  macaroni 
is  preserved  in  Naples;  where  early  in  the  thirteenth  century  one 
Chicho  was  suddenly  impoverished  by  a  turn  of  fortune  and 
decided  that  he  would  spend  the  rest  of  his  life  doing  good  for 
others. 

His  first  plan  was  to  invent  some  tasty  and  economical  food 
for  everybody.     He  invested  what  little  was  left  of  his  money 


ITALIAN  27 

in  materials  and  equipment  and  set  to  work  in  a  humble  attic 
on  a  small  Neapolitan  byway  called  Cortillari.  There  he  labored 
night  and  day  over  his  experiments.  In  a  tall  building  across  the 
court-like  street  a  shrewd  woman  called  Javanella  could  overlook 
his  attic.  She  saw  Chicho  hard  at  work  by  candle  light  mixing 
his  wheat  flour  and  pressing  it  through  the  crude  apparatus  he 
had  invented,  watched  him  cook  the  long  threads  which  came 
out  of  the  machine,  observed  the  ingredients  which  he  stewed 
together  to  make  the  sauce,  saw  him  eat  it  and  knew  that  what 
he  had  made  must  taste  very  good,  so  she  busied  herself  in 
imitating  the  new  dish. 

Other  neighbors  suspected  that  mysterious  things  were  going 
on  in  Chicho's  room,  lighted  even  after  midnight,  so  it  was  easy 
for  Javanella  to  spread  the  rumor  that  he  was  a  sorcerer,  and  so 
discredit  him  until  she  had  stolen  the  secret  of  making  his  dish. 
Javanella's  husband  was  a  kitchen  man  at  the  palace  of  King 
Frederick,  so  the  good  wife  cooked  a  sample  for  him  and  con- 
fided that  the  recipe  had  been  revealed  to  her  by  an  angel  in  a 
dream.  Since  her  husband  highly  approved  of  the  unique  and 
satisfying  dish  she  begged  him  to  ask  the  king's  chef  to  allow 
her  to  make  it  for  the  king. 

The  chef  arranged  to  have  macaroni  served  at  the  king's 
table  and  he,  himself,  became  as  puffed  up  as  the  cooked  paste 
through  knowing  a  mortal  who  consorted  with  angels  and  had 
thus  come  into  possession  of  a  miraculous  recipe. 

King  Frederick  ate  his  fill  of  Javanella's  angel  food  and  pro- 
nounced it  divine.  He  showed  his  appreciation  by  giving  her  a 
hundred  pieces  of  gold,  which  was  a  fortune  in  those  days.  From 
then  on,  macaroni  appeared  often  at  the  king's  table  and  Java- 
nella's fame  spread  through  Naples.  Princes  and  aristocrats 
came  to  buy  her  recipe  and  serve  the  luscious  paste  at  their 
banquets  of  state. 

Meanwhile  honest  Chicho  finished  his  experiments,  left  his 


28  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

house  for  the  first  time  in  many  weeks  and  fared  forth  with 
the  intention  of  divulging  his  secret  to  a  certain  prince  who 
might  become  his  patron.  He  sniffed  the  air! — surely,  that  was 
his  own  sauce  cooking  somewhere.  He  followed  his  nose  until 
he  came  upon  a  cook  in  the  very  act  of  pouring  the  rich  sauce 
over  a  pot  of  steaming  paste.  She  told  him  she  had  bought  the 
recipe  from  Javanella,  who  had  got  it  from  an  angel;  that  all 
the  rich  people  in  Naples  were  reveling  in  it  and  the  king  him- 
self had  made  Javanella  a  rich  woman. 

Chicho  crept  back  to  his  attic  and  could  be  heard  smashing 
up  his  mixing  machines  and  experimental  kitchen.  He  was 
never  seen  again,  but  his  ghost  still  haunts  the  Cortillari.  On 
Hallowe'en  he  can  be  heard  rolling  and  rolling  his  paste  while 
Javanella  stirs  and  stirs  the  sauce  and  the  devil  pokes  the  fire  and 
grates  the  cheese. 

So  jealous  of  their  secret  recipe  were  the  Neapolitans  that 
it  was  many  years  before  it  spread  to  the  other  principalities  of 
Italy,  and  a  whole  century  passed  before  a  Frenchman  got  hold 
of  it  and  took  it  for  the  first  time  beyond  the  borders  of  Italy. 

Naples  was  the  center  of  macaroni  manufacture  for  so  many 
centuries  that  the  Pompeian  Road  leading  into  it  was  broken  to 
bits  by  the  continuous  procession  of  wagons  and  trucks  hauling 
in  hard  wheat  and  flour  to  make  the  staff  of  life  of  Southern 
Italy.  Then  the  town  of  Gragnano,  near  Sorrento,  set  up  rival 
mills  and  began  to  supply  the  whole  world  with  Chicho's  flour 
paste.  It  had  to  be  made  of  very  hard  (durum)  wheat,  such  as 
is  grown  in  Russia,  Algeria,  Argentina  and  America,  so  gradu- 
ally Italian  pastes  became  known  in  these  countries  and  little 
factories  were  set  up  to  make  them  locally. 

Macaroni  is  made  of  moist  hard  wheat  ground  to  a  coarse 
meal,  the  free  flour  is  then  sifted  out  and  the  meal  kneaded  with 
hot  water  into  a  stiff  dough  which  is  squirted  under  pressure 
into  the  machine  that  forms  it.    The  best  quality  comes  in  long 


ITALIAN  29 

pieces  that  are  hung  up  to  dry  without  breaking,  but  the  poorer 
grades  do  not  hold  together  so  well,  hence  they  are  sold  in  short, 
uneven  lengths.  Good  paste  is  rough  in  texture,  yellowish  white 
and  as  brittle  as  glass.  It  must  be  elastic  and  never  sticky.  Since 
it  absorbs  three  times  its  weight  in  water  it  swells  to  double 
its  size  when  boiled. 

RAVIOLI 

PASTE 
1V2  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

r  egg,  slightly  beaten  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

Pour  flour  in  a  heap  on  a  board,  making  a  depression  in  the 
center;  drop  in  the  tggy  salt  and  water.  With  a  fork  mix  a  stifl 
paste  and  knead.  Flour  board  very  lightly  and  roll  out  very  thin. 
Cut  in  two  exactly  in  the  center.  Let  lie  five  minutes  after 
making  sure  that  the  paste  is  not  sticking  to  the  board.  1%. 
inches  apart  drop  half -teaspoons  of  one  of  the  following  mixtures, 
on  one  half  the  paste.  Lift  the  other  half  of  the  sheet  of  paste 
and  lay  on  top.  With  the  finger  press  the  two  layers  together 
along  their  lines  of  contact.  And  then,  with  a  rotary  cutter,  cut 
the  raviolis  in  inch-and-a-quarter  squares,  leaving  the  filling  in 
the  center  of  each  square.  Again  press  down  the  edges  with  the 
finger  to  make  sure  the  stuffing  does  not  fall  out  in  cooking.  Let 
stand  15  minutes  or  more.  Drop  into  a  large  kettle  of  rapidly 
boiling  water,  and  boil  10-12  minutes.  Lift  out  with  a  skimmer, 
draining  well.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese. 

MEAT  FILLING 

i  cup  (cooked)  chicken,  turkey,      1  egg,  beaten 

or  veal  %  teaspoon   lemon   peel,  grated 

1  tablespoon    grated    Parmesan        1  tablespoon  butter 

cheese  l/2  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


30  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Grind  meat  very  fine.  Thoroughly  mix  with  other  in- 
gredients. If  any  of  the  filling  is  left  after  making  the  ravioli, 
add  it  to  the  tomato  sauce. 

GREEN  FILLING 

i  cup  cooked  spinach,  minced  i  egg,  beaten 

Yi  cup  cottage  cheese  Salt 

i  tablespoon    grated    Parmesan  Pepper 

cheese  i  tablespoon   sifted   crumbs 

Drain  and  press  spinach  dry.  Mix  with  other  ingredients. 
Proceed  as  above.  Serve  with  butter  or  with  tomato  sauce,  and 
more  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  If  the  spinach  is  too  moist,  more 
bread  crumbs  will  be  necessary,  but  the  addition  will  detract  from 
the  excellence  of  the  dish. 

OTHER  FILLINGS 

As  is  the  case  with  other  pastes,  ravioli  recipes  vary  all  over 
Italy.  The  meat  filling  can  be  varied  by  using  poached  calf's 
brains,  sweetbreads,  or  chicken  livers  without  the  Parmesan 
cheese.  Or  any  tasty  combination  of  meats,  such  as  chicken  and 
sweetbreads,  veal  and  calf's  brains,  chicken  and  chicken  livers, 
chicken  and  veal,  etc.,  providing  only  that  the  meats  are  finely 
ground  and  thoroughly  mixed  together. 

No  Italian  specialty  is  more  appreciated  than  ravioli,  and 
none  better  displays  the  skill  of  the  cook.  For  a  ravioli  party 
the  ravioli  and  the  sauce  can  be  prepared  well  in  advance. 

PANATA 

Y3  loaf  stale  bread,  grated  4  eggs,  beaten 

2  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese      2  cups  hot  meat  broth 

1  grating  nutmeg  Salt 

Mix  crumbs,  Parmesan  cheese  and  nutmeg;  stir  in  the  eggs. 
Add  broth  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.    Salt  to  taste. 


ITALIAN  31 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick  and  mixture  separates 
from  side  of  pan.    Heap  up  in  a  hot  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

Green  peas,  or  other  green  vegetables,  are  sometimes  mixed 
with  this  panata.  They  should  be  cooked  separately  and  added 
with  the  broth. 

This  is  a  very  ancient  dish  of  Tuscany,  where  it  is  known  as 

tridura. 

RISOTTO 

1  cup   rice  Vi  teaspoon  saffron 

%  cup  butter  1  cup  white  wine,  heated 

1  onion,  chopped  1  cup  grated   Parmesan  cheese 

1  quart  meat  broth,  boiling  1  pound  fresh  mushrooms 

Salt  and  pepper  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Brown  rice  in  butter;  add  onion  and  fry  for  a  few  minutes. 
Add  1  pint  broth  and  boil  rapidly,  gently  shaking  the  pan  to 
prevent  sticking  as  it  evaporates;  add  remaining  stock;  season, 
and  continue  boiling,  reducing  heat  as  liquid  is  absorbed.  Add 
saffron,  mixed  with  a  little  water;  add  wine  and  cheese.  Mix 
gently  and  set  over  steam  until  dry  and  fluffy.  Have  mushrooms 
washed,  dried,  quartered  and  sauteed  in  olive  oil.  Season.  Serve 
in  a  ring  with  rice  piled  in  center.  Pass  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
in  a  wooden  bowl,  with  wooden  spoon. 

RISOTTO  MILANESE  STYLE 
(Risotto  alia  Milanese) 

1  cup  rice  Salt  and  pepper 

%  onion,  minced  l/z  teaspoon   saffron 

*4  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

Yz  cup  Marsala  wine  cheese 

Meat  broth 

Wash  rice  through  several  waters,  drain  and  dry  in  a  towel. 
Slowly  fry  onion  in  l/2  the  butter  until  golden;  add  rice  and  fry 


32  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  half  the  Marsala  wine  and 
sufficient  boiling  broth  to  cook  rice;  season  and  cook  rapidly  until 
grains  swell;  reduce  heat  and  finish  cooking  until  nearly  dry. 
Uncover,  add  rest  of  butter  and  Marsala,  and  the  saffron  mixed 
smooth  in  a  little  broth.  Set  over  steam  or  in  open  oven  until 
rice  is  dry  and  fluffy.  Take  up,  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan 
cheese. 

This  is  the  finest  of  the  Milanese  risottos  and  is  served  on 
special  occasions.  A  little  skill  is  required  to  cook  it  properly 
and  attain  the  fluffiness  at  the  end  without  draining  off  the 
liquid. 

The  rice  recipes  of  the  Portuguese,  Spaniards  and  Italians 
bear  close  resemblance,  all  of  them  being  of  Arabian  origin  in- 
troduced through  North  African  invasions  and  occupations.  In- 
land cities,  like  Milan,  eat  their  rice  flavored  with  meats  and 
vegetables;  coast  cities,  where  sea  food  is  plentiful  and  fresh, 
prefer  the  fishy  flavors.  The  combinations  are  legion;  rice  with 
chicken  giblets,  with  green  peas,  with  minced  veal  or  pork,  with 
frogs'  legs,  with  sea  snails,  black  rice  cooked  with  the  inky  squid, 
pink  rice  cooked  with  crayfish,  rice  with  tench  (a  sort  of 
flounder),  with  mussels,  and  with  the  tiny  clams  of  the  Bay  of 
Biscay.  Invariably  the  method  of  cooking  differs  from  that  of 
the  Far  East  in  that  the  liquid  is  a  flavoring  broth,  instead  of 
water,  and  is  retained  in  the  finished  dish,  the  quantity  being 
gauged  so  as  to  be  completely  evaporated  at  the  end  of  the  cook- 
ing time.  Saffron  is  a  frequent  flavoring  and  imparts  an  ap- 
petizing color. 
r         5  POLENTA— I 

i  cup  yellow  cornmeal  2  cups   rich  hash  of  left-over 

1  quart  boiling  salted  water,  or  meat  or  fish 

stock  3  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

2  tablespoons  butter  cheese 


ITALIAN  33 

Sprinkle  cornmeal  into  boiling  liquid  stirring  constantly  until 
there  are  no  lumps;  cook  over  slow  heat  or  in  double  boiler  l/2 
hour,  adding  butter  while  cooking.  Pour  out  on  a  hot  platter 
in  a  ring.  Fill  the  center  with  hot  hash.  Sprinkle  the  mush 
thickly  with  Parmesan  cheese. 

POLENTA— II 

Make  cornmeal  mush  as  above;  pour  a  thin  layer  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  spread  with  thick  tomato  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  Parmesan  cheese.  Then  another  layer  of  mush,  tomato 
sauce,  and  cheese;  repeat,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  cheese.  Brown 
in  a  hot  oven  (4000  F.).    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

BAKED    POLENTA 

Make  cornmeal  mush  as  above;  let  cool  and  stiffen  in  a 
shallow  mold;  slice  with  a  wet  knife.  Have  ready  a  rich  brown 
gravy  containing  bits  of  chicken  giblets  or  other  tidbits.  Place 
a  layer  of  polenta  slices  in  buttered  baking  dish;  add  a  little 
gravy;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Repeat.  Cover  the  top 
with  remaining  gravy   and   bake   10   minutes   in   a   hot  oven 

(4oo°F.). 

FRIED  POLENTA 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  celery  stalk,  sliced 

Yl  garlic  clove,  minced  1  green   pepper,  chopped 

3  tablespoons   butter  1  quart  boiling  water 

l/z  pound  pork  sausage  or  ham-      1  cup  cornmeal 
burger  %  cup  flour 

Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  1  tablespoon  of  the  butter  for  a 
few  minutes,  add  meat  and  mash  it  as  it  fries  to  keep  it  from 
cooking  in  lumps.  Turn  into  a  saucepan  with  celery,  pepper 
and  boiling  water.  Let  boil,  covered,  10  minutes.  Season.  Add 
the  cornmeal  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  out  all  lumps.    Finish 


34  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

cooking  over  steam,  or  in  double  boiler.    Cool  in  a  mold.    Slice. 
Dredge  slices  with  flour  and  fry  in  remaining  butter. 

Polenta  was  originally  made  of  chestnut  flour,  as  its  name 
signifies.  Then  American  maize  took  kindly  to  the  soil  and 
climate  of  Northern  Italy  and  became  an  important  crop.  In 
the  Fall,  ears  of  corn,  with  husks  turned  back,  gild  the  outer 
walls  of  farm  houses  and  barns  and  add  to  the  gaiety  of  the 
rural  landscape.  The  grain  is  afterward  ground  in  local  mills 
as  needed,  for  cornmeal  must  be  fresh  to  lend  its  full  flavor  to 
the  daily  polenta  dish  eaten  by  every  family  throughout  the 
winter. 

The  score  of  polenta  recipes  range  from  the  simple  ones 
given  here,  to  the  rich  Milanese  polenta  timbale,  which  is  a  thin, 
hollow  mold  of  cold  polenta,  filled  with  a  thick  sweetbread 
ragout  made  with  white  wine  and  a  dozen  other  ingredients, 
baked  in  the  oven,  and  afterward  elaborately  garnished. 


FISH 

(Pesce) 


FILLET  OF  FISH  ALLA  MASSENA 

i  pound  fillet   of  flounder  or  i  carrot,  chopped 

fluke  i  onion,  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper  I  sprig  parsley 

Head  and  bones  of  the  fish  i  tablespoon  butter 

Cold  water  %  cup  flour  and  water  paste 

Salt  and  pepper  the  fillets  and  place  in  a  large  soup  plate. 
Cover  head  and  bones  with  cold  water,  add  carrot,  onion,  and 
parsley.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  %  hour;  strain;  reduce  broth 
to  i  cupful.  Pour  broth  over  fillets.  Lay  another  soup  plate  on 
top  and  seal  the  two  together  with  paste  made  of  flour  and 
water,  so  no  steam  can  escape.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven  (350°  F.) 
for  20  to  25  minutes,  depending  on  the  thickness  of  the  fillets. 
Open  at  the  table,  and  the  flavor  will  be  amazing. 

FILLET  OF  WHITING  ALLA  VENITIA 

Grill  the  fillets  dipped  in  oil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dust  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  scatter  over  bits  of  finely 
minced  or  coarsely  grated  finocchio  (sweet  fennel). 

FILLETS  OF  BASS  SICILIAN  STYLE 


1 Y2  pounds  fillets  of  bass 
*4  cup  white  wine 
%  cup  fish  broth 
1  scallion,  minced 
Salt  and  pepper 


*4  cup  butter 

3  mushrooms,  chopped 

1  tablespoon  flour 

1  dozen  clams,  or  oysters 

Y2  cup  lobster  meat,  diced 


35 


36  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Lay  fillets  in  oiled  earthenware  casserole.  Add  wine  and 
broth  made  from  boiling  fish  bones  and  heads;  sprinkle  with 
scallion  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dot  with  2  tablespoons 
of  the  butter.  Cover  closely  and  bake,  or  cook  on  top  of  stove. 
Brown  mushrooms  slightly  in  remaining  butter;  add  flour,  stir 
until  well  mixed;  add  broth  from  fish  and  thin  with  a  little  clam 
or  oyster  liquor;  season,  and  boil  5  minutes.  Have  clams  or 
oysters  already  poached.  Add  lobster  meat  to  sauce  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Add  oysters  or  clams,  pour  sauce  over  fish  and  serve 
in  casserole. 

CODFISH  BOLOGNA  STYLE 

Salt  and  pepper  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

1  pound  codfish,  cut  in  one  1  tomato,  well   chopped 

piece  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  tablespoons    lemon    juice 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  fish.  Heat  olive  oil  slowly  in  an  earthen- 
ware casserole.  Lay  the  fish  in  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  the 
minced  garlic,  and  spread  with  chopped  tomato;  dot  with  butter. 
Cover  and  simmer.  Turn  carefully  before  the  fish  is  too  tender, 
or  it  will  break.  Serve  in  casserole,  after  sprinkling  with  lemon 
juice  and  parsley.    This  recipe  serves  for  a  cut  of  any  large  fish. 

FISH  PIES 

6  (l/2   inch)  slices  any  fine  fish      1  tablespoon  onion,  grated 
Salt  and  pepper  1  standard  recipe  pie  crust 

*4  cup  olive  oil  3  tablespoons  minced  parsley 

Trim  fish  slices  until  of  equal  size.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  oil  and  grated  onion  and  brush  over  both  sides  of 
the  fish.  Roll  out  pie  crust  very  thin  and  cut  in  portions  slightly 
more  than  double  the  size  of  the  fish  slices.  Lay  a  slice  on  1 
side  of  each  portion  of  pastry,  sprinkle  with  parsley,  fold  pastry 
over  and  seal  edges  together,  completely  enfolding  the  fish.    Lay 


ITALIAN  37 

on  oiled  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400°F.)  about 
10  minutes;  reduce  heat  and  finish  baking. 

EEL  WITH  MACARONI 

i  (2  pound)  eel  1  garlic   clove,  chopped 

Salt  1  sprig  parsley 

lA  cup  olive  oil  1  sprig  celery 

1 1/2  tablespoons   vinegar  2  cloves 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  blade  mace 

1  small  carrot,  chopped  1  cup  Marsala 
%  pound  macaroni 

Have  eel  killed,  skinned  and  cleaned  by  fish  dealer,  and  cut 

into  3-inch  lengths.    Rub  with  salt,  cover  with  water  and  stand 

x/2  hour.    Wash  and  dry.    Lay  in  deep  bowl.    Mix  oil,  vinegar, 

vegetables,  herbs  and  spices  and  pour  over  eel.    Marinate  1  hour. 

Transfer  eel  and  marinade  to  saucepan,  add  Marsala  and  sufficient 

boiling  water  to  cover,  and  cook  gently  until  tender.    Meanwhile 

cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain  well  and  lay  on  hot 

platter.    Drain  eel,  split  pieces  and  remove  bones;  lay  on  top  of 

macaroni.    Strain  and  press  liquid  through  coarse  sieve  and  pour 

over. 

WHITEBAIT  OMELET  ALLA  NAPOLI 

Y2  pound  whitebait  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  6  eggs 

Yi  cup  butter 

Wash  whitebait  through  several  waters,  pick  over  carefully, 
drain  and  dry  in  a  napkin.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley. 
Beat  eggs  until  quite  light,  adding  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Add 
fish  and  stir  together.  Heat  butter  and  when  nearly  smoking 
pour  in  the  mixture.  Stir  at  first  until  eggs  begin  to  set.  Then 
let  brown  on  bottom,  turn  like  a  pancake  and  brown  the  other 
side.  Slide  out  of  the  pan  on  to  a  hot  platter.  Care  must  be 
taken  not  to  let  the  eggs  get  too  hard,  since  the  finished  dish 
must  have  the  moist  consistency  of  an  omelet. 


MEATS 

(Carni) 


SCALOPPINE  IN  GRAVY 

(Scaloppine  al  Sugo) 

i  pound  veal  steak  *4  cup  white  wine  or-  Marsala 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

il/z  cups  veal  or  beef  gravy         l/8  teaspoon   nutmeg 

i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Have  butcher  cut  veal  very  thin,  divide  it  in  pieces  about  3 
inches  square  and  pound  each  piece  very  well  with  the  flat  side 
of  his  cleaver.  Melt  butter,  slowly  brown  veal  on  both  sides, 
add  heated  gravy  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Add  wine,  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  until  very  tender. 
Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over  it.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  or 
chopped  spinach.  Also,  the  gravy  may  be  used  as  a  sauce  with 
spaghetti  or  tagliarini  served  with  the  scaloppine. 

SCALOPPINE  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

(Scaloppine  con  Funghi) 
Same  as  Scaloppine  al  Sugo,  except  that  6  mushrooms  are 
cut  up  and  added  to  the  pan  while  browning.    The  nutmeg  may 
be  omitted.    (Italians  prefer  dried  mushrooms  soaked  overnight, 
and  these  would  be  preferable  to  canned  mushrooms.) 

SCALOPPINE  WITH  ZUCCHINI 

(Scaloppine  con  Zucchini) 
Same  as  Scaloppine  al  Sugo,  with  the  addition  of  zucchini, 
partly  sauteed  in  a  separate  pan  and  then  put  in  the  pan  with 
the  veal  and  simmered  with  it  for  5  minutes. 

38  ' 


ITALIAN  39 

SCALOPPINE  WITH  VEGETABLES,  COOKED  IN 
OLIVE  OIL 

(Scaloppine  con  Verdure  aV  Aceto) 

i  pound  veal  steak  i  mushroom,    chopped 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  \l/i  cups  veal  or  beef  gravy 

i  shallot,  chopped  %  cup  white  wine 

i  very  small  carrot,  chopped  i  sprig  minced  parsley  or  basil 

Y2  stalk  celery,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

Have  butcher  prepare  veal  as  for  Scaloppine  al  Sugo. 
Slowly  brown  veal  in  oil,  add  chopped  vegetables  and  continue 
browning  for  a  moment.  Add  heated  gravy  and  simmer.  Add 
wine,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  until  very  tender. 
Tomato  juice  may  be  substituted  for  wine. 

LAMB  WITH  PEAS 
(Agnello  con  Piselli) 

2  garlic  cloves  i  tablespoon  olive  oil 
6-8  sprigs  rosemary                       Salt  and  pepper 

(substitute  mint)  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  pounds  leg  of  lamb  3  tablespoons   tomato   paste 
Ys  pound  salt  pork,  chopped       Meat  broth,  heated 

3  cups  green  peas,  cooked 

Cut  the  garlic  in  tiny  slivers;  remove  leaves  from  rosemary 
and  cut  stems  in  short  lengths.  With  a  small  pointed  instrument 
make  insertions  all  over  the  meat,  and  insert,  alternately,  slivers 
of  garlic  and  bits  of  stem,  leaving  the  latter  sticking  out  so  that 
they  may  be  removed  before  serving.  Lay  salt  pork,  with  the 
oil,  in  an  earthenware  casserole;  heat  slowly.  Salt  and  pepper 
the  meat  and  lay  on  top;  commence  cooking  and  when  lamb 
is  slightly  colored  all  over,  add  butter  and  tomato  paste,  and  a 
little  of  the  broth.  Cover  closely  and  simmer,  turning  and  add- 
ing more  broth  if  necessary  to  prevent  scorching.    When  tender, 


4o  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

add  peas.  Take  up  meat  and  remove  rosemary;  lay  on  a  hot 
platter,  surround  with  peas,  pour  strained  sauce  over,  and  sprinkle 
sparingly  with  a  few  of  the  finely  minced  rosemary  leaves. 

Veal  is  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  substituting  parsley  for 
rosemary. 

Beef  occupies  a  poor  place  in  the  Italian  kitchen,  being 
usually  relegated  to  the  soup  pot,  for  the  animals  are  largely 
useless  milk  cows,  or  worn-out  work  oxen.  In  the  absence  of 
modern  ovens,  meats  are  deliciously  cooked  as  above,  or  roasted 
on  the  spit  before  an  open  fire. 

LAMB  CUTLETS  MILANESE 

4  lamb  chops  or  cutlets  from  leg  l/2  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 
Salt  and  pepper  i  egg,  well  beaten 

l/2  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs  lA  cup  butter,  melted 


Trim  superfluous  fat  from  chops;  season.    Mix  bread  crumbs 

and  Parmesan  cheese.    Dip  chops  in  this  mixture,  then  in  beaten 

egg.     Sprinkle  with  butter  and  cook  under  a  slow  grill  until 

done. 

ROAST  KID 

i  young  kid  i  clove 

Salt  and  pepper  i  cup  olive  oil 

3  garlic  cloves,  crushed  i  cup  white  wine 

2  onions,  minced  i  cup  Marsala 

2  bay  leaves  i  pound  dates,  stoned 

2  sprigs  thyme  Thin  slices  salt  pork 

i  blade  mace  lA  cup  flour 

Have  the  kid  well  cleaned.  Put  brain,  liver  and  sweetbreads 
in  refrigerator,  with  any  other  giblets.  (Perhaps  the  kid  kidneys 
and  chitterlings  fancied  by  the  Italians  are  too  highly  flavored.) 
Mix  all  other  ingredients,  except  Marsala,  dates,  and  pork,  and 
rub  mixture  over  the  kid,  inside  and  out.    Set  away  in  a  wide 


ITALIAN  41 

crock  for  a  day,  turning  occasionally.  Drain  and  dry.  Strain 
marinating  liquid.  Prepare  giblets,  blanching  and  skinning 
sweetbreads  and  brains,  and  skinning  liver  and  kidneys;  chop 
them  together  and  season.  Chop  dates,  warm  Marsala  and  pour 
over  them.  Let  stand  until  wine  is  absorbed;  mix  with  chopped 
giblets;  stuff  the  kid  and  sew  up.  Cut  ligaments  at  the  joints; 
fold  legs  close  to  body  and  tie  securely.  Lay  salt  pork  over 
breast  and  back  and  wrap  with  twine.  Place  kid  in  oiled  paper 
bag,  lay  in  roasting  pan  and  bake  1  hour,  turning  every  15 
minutes.  Remove  paper,  add  heated  marinating  liquid  to  pan 
and  finish  baking,  basting  frequently.  Remove  pork  for  the 
last  15  minutes.  Remove  twine.  Take  up.  Thicken  gravy  with 
flour.  If  a  more  delicate  flavor  is  desired,  discard  marinating 
liquid  and  finish  last  basting  with  pan  liquor  and  l/2  cup  melted 
butter. 

A  number  of  years  ago  a  past-master  at  the  art  of  kid-roast- 
ing erected  the  brick  beehive  oven  of  his  native  land  in  a  vacant 
lot  just  off  Mulberry  Bend  in  New  York,  sheltered  it  with  a 
crude  booth,  and  sold  the  succulent  steaming  meat  at  the  dinner 
hour  to  neighbors,  who  hurried  home  with  precious  plattersful 
for  waiting  families.  Gradually  his  fame  spread,  and  food 
sophisticates  who  had  lived  in  Italy  began  stopping  in  front  of 
the  humble  shelter,  some  of  them  tarrying  to  consume  their 
purchases  on  the  spot,  with  chunks  of  crunchy  hearth  bread 
and  black  olives.  One  day  an  excavator  rolled  into  the  lot,  and 
the  goat  cook  disappeared.  Inquiries  at  the  corner  grocery  re- 
vealed that  he  had  gone  back  home  to  buy  the  local  albergo 
(inn). 


42  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

VEAL  KIDNEYS  WITH  PARMESAN 

i  calf's  kidney  i  sprig  parsley 

Y4  cup  white  wine  3  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Yi  bay  leaf  Yi  teaspoon  sugar 

1  small  sprig  thyme  Y%  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cut  the  kidney  in  ^2-inch  slices.  Put  in  saucepan  with  wine, 
seasonings,  herbs  and  1  tablespoon  butter;  toss  over  hot  fire  5-8 
minutes,  when  most  of  the  liquid  will  have  been  absorbed. 
Transfer  to  hot  platter,  cover  with  Parmesan  cheese;  mix  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  sprinkle  over.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  but- 
ter which  has  been  melted.    Brown  under  grill. 

CALF'S  LIVER  WITH  PARMESAN 

1  pound  calf's  liver,  sliced  Butter  or  olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  3  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  cheese 

2  tablespoons  green  onion,  2  tablespoons  grated  bread 

minced  crumbs 

Yi  garlic  clove,  minced 

Remove  skin  from  liver;  season.  Mix  parsley,  green  onion, 
and  garlic  and  sprinkle  over.  Heat  butter  to  near  smoking  and 
quickly  brown  liver  on  both  sides.  Do  not  over-cook  or  it  will 
be  dry  and  hard.  Mix  Parmesan  cheese  and  crumbs.  Take 
up  liver  on  hot  fireproof  dish;  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  mixture, 
and  then  with  melted  butter.    Let  brown  under  quick  grill. 

FRITTO  MISTO 
Deep  fat  or  oil  for  frying 

FRYING  BATTER 

Yi  cup  flour  Yz  cup  milk 

54  teaspoon   salt  1  eggt  beaten 

1  dash  cayenne 


ITALIAN  43 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 

For  each  person  a  selection  from  the  following: 

*4  slice  calf's  liver  1  cooked  artichoke  bottom 

1  slice  sweetbread  1  slice  yellow  cheese 

1  slice  calf's  brain  %  slice  egg  plant,  blanched 

1  slice  kid's  kidney  1  flowerette  cooked  cauliflower 

or  sheep's  kidney  1  slice  Italian  squash  (zucchini) 

1  slice  lamb's  fry  1  length  cooked  celery 
Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  sweetbread  and  brain  in  cold  water  1  hour;  blanch, 
skin,  and  remove  large  veins.  Skin  kidney.  Season  and  dip 
each  item  separately  in  the  batter.  Fry  in  the  fat,  drain  on 
absorbent  paper,  and  serve  all  together  on  the  same  hot  platter. 

MARROW  BONES 
{Osso  Bucco) 

8  three-inch   lengths   marrow  Salt  and  pepper 

bone  1  cup  strained  tomato 

5  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon   granulated  sugar 

1  small  onion,  minced  V2  tablespoon  flour 

1  small  carrot,  grated  Rounds  of  toast 

Parsley  sprigs 

Select  bones  of  young  beef,  not  too  thick  and  heavy.  Heat 
four  tablespoons  butter;  add  bones,  onion,  carrot  and  seasonings; 
cover  and  slowly  fry,  basting  and  turning  often.  When  they 
begin  to  color  add  tomato,  sugar,  and  flour  mixed  with  remain- 
ing butter.  The  marrow  is  cooked  as  soon  as  it  is  heated 
through.  Lay  bones  in  hot  dish.  Skim  fat  from  sauce  and  strain 
over  bones.  Serve  with  a  plate  of  hot  toast  on  which  the  marrow 
is  to  be  spread.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


44  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

PORK  CHOPS  MILANESE 

6  loin  pork  chops  l/2  garlic  clove,  minced 

Salt  and  pepper  i  tablespoon  minced  green 
Y2  cup  butter,  melted  onion 

Vi  cup  bread  crumbs,  sifted  2  cups  tomato  sauce,  heated 

Yz  cup  grated   Parmesan  cheese  1  teaspoon  beef  extract 

Trim  superfluous  fat  from  chops.  Season  and  dip  in  melted 
butter.  Dip  in  a  mixture  of  crumbs  and  Parmesan  cheese.  Cook 
garlic  and  onion  lightly  in  a  frying  pan,  add  chops  and  brown 
on  both  sides.  Place  in  a  covered  baking  dish  and  bake  15 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (35o°F.). 

(The  Italian  uses  an  earthenware  dish,  embeds  it  in  hot 
ashes  and  heaps  hot  ashes  over  the  cover.) 

Add  tomato  sauce  mixed  with  the  beef  extract  and  continue 
baking  until  very  tender.  Serve  with  macaroni  and  additional 
tomato  sauce. 

PORK  LIVER  WITH  FENNEL 

1V2  pounds  pork  liver  Fennel  seeds 

Salt  and  pepper  Bread 

Butter 

Cut  liver  in  2-inch  squares;  season,  roll  in  fennel  seeds  so 

liver  is  completely  covered  with  seeds.    String  on  skewers  and 

roast  in  oven  or  grill.    Serve  with  bread  browned  in  butter  in  a 

skillet. 

THRICE-COOKED  CHICKEN 

2  fat  broilers,  quartered  Vi  cup  flour 

Salt  and  pepper  l/z  cup  butter 

Heated  milk 

Rub  chicken  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and 
lightly  brown  in  butter.  Lay  in  roasting  pan,  and  pour  in  hot 
milk  to  depth  of  nearly  an  inch.    Cover  and  bake  10  minutes 


ITALIAN  45 

in  hot  oven  (400°F.).  Turn  oil  heat  and  leave  until  milk  is 
absorbed.  Uncover  and  brown  under  slow  grill.  Add  i  cup 
milk  to  contents  of  frying  pan  and  thicken  with  more  flour,  if 
necessary.  Serve  this  gravy  separately.  Remove  chicken  to  hot 
platter,  and  serve  with  Italian  rice  combined  with  the  chicken 
giblets. 

This  is  a  specialty  of  the  Alpine  regions.  The  farther  South 
one  travels  in  Italy  the  scarcer  cow's  milk  becomes.  Goat's  milk 
takes  its  place  in  the  morning  coffee,  and  cooks  do  without  it 
altogether.  The  Italian  cooking  most  popular  in  America  and 
England  is  that  of  Northern  Italy,  especially  Lombardy  and  the 
Piedmont,  and  the  majority  of  Italian  restaurant  owners  and 
their  chefs  come  from  these  districts. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  MARENGO 

{Polio  alia  Marengo) 

2  friers  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yz  cup  white  wine 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  1Y2  cups  meat  broth,  heated 
Salt  and  pepper  1  tomato,  chopped 

Ys  teaspoon  nutmeg  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Cut  each  chicken  into  6  pieces;  fry  slowly  in  heated  butter 
and  oil  until  lightly  browned.  Sprinkle  with  seasonings  and 
nutmeg,  and  then  with  flour;  continue  to  fry  until  golden.  Add 
wine  and  broth;  cover  closely  and  simmer,  turning  occasionally 
until  tender.  Add  tomato  and  simmer  5-10  minutes.  Add  lemon 
juice  and  serve. 

This  recipe  is  sometimes  attributed  to  France,  sometimes  to 
Italy,  for  its  origin  is  not  generally  known. 

On  the  day  of  Napoleon's  victory  over  the  Austrians  (1800) 
at  Marengo,  a  little  village  in  the  Italian  district  of  Piedmont, 
the  cook-wagon  did  not  arrive  in  time  for  the  hungry  Consul 


46  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

and  his  generals.  A  hasty  repast  of  young  chickens,  stolen  from 
a  peasant,  was  prepared.  The  recipe  was  an  invention  of  the 
moment,  and  ever  since  has  commemorated  Napoleon's  military 
prowess.  An  Italian  authority  on  cooking  remarks  that  no  one 
should  be  led  to  believe,  from  this  accident,  that  the  Consul 
deserved  to  have  a  dish  named  in  his  honor. 

FRIED  SPRING  CHICKEN 

i  young  frier,  jointed  %  teaspoon  salt 

54  cup  flour  54  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  i  bay  leaf,  quartered 

54  cup  olive  oil  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 
Butter 

Roll  chicken  pieces  in  flour  and  lay  in  a  bowl.  Beat  lemon 
juice  with  olive  oil,  salt,  pepper  and  bay  leaf,  and  pour  over 
chicken.  Let  stand  i  hour,  drain  off  liquid,  remove  bay  leaf;  roll 
chicken  in  Parmesan  cheese  and  fry  in  butter. 

CHICKEN  WITH  WHITE  WINE 
{Polio  al  Vino  Bianco) 

i  young  chicken,  jointed  i  teaspoon  minced  parsley  or 

i  cup  white  wine  basil 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  54  cup  butter 

Salt  i  tablespoon  flour 

Pepper  2  tablespoons  water 

54  teaspoon  nutmeg  i  tablespoon  tomato  paste 

Marinate  chicken  in  wine  and  olive  oil  with  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg  and  parsley,  for  4  hours.  Put  all  in  earthenware  cas- 
serole with  the  butter.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  until  tender, 
turning  occasionally.  Make  a  thin  paste  of  flour  and  water  and 
sprinkle  in.  Add  tomato  paste.  Gently  shake  casserole  to  mix 
well  and  simmer  until  flour  thickens.    Serve  in  casserole. 


ITALIAN 


47 


CHICKEN  WITH  OLIVES 
{Polio  alia  Olive) 

i  young  chicken,  jointed        Broth  (of  chicken,  veal  or  beef) 

15  olives,  large  size 
Pepper 
Salt 
Tomato  paste 


3  tablespoons   butter 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  carrot,  minced 

1  small  tomato,  chopped 


Slowly  brown  chicken  in  butter  with  onion  and  carrot;  add 

tomato  and  continue  browning.    Cover  with  boiling  broth.    Add 

4  big  olives,  cut  up,  and  the  pounded  pulp  of  4  others;  also  7 

whole  olives.    Add  pepper  and  salt  sparingly,  for  the  olives  are 

already  salty.     Cook  slowly  until  tender,  add  tomato  paste  to 

taste,  thicken  gravy  if  desired  and  finish  by  cooking  10  more 

minutes. 

CAPILOTADE 


3  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  sliced  onions 
1  cup  sliced  carrots 
6  mushrooms,  sliced 
1  tablespoon  flour 


Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  white  wine 

1  cold  roast  chicken,  cut  up 

lA  cup  olive  oil 

Large  croutons 


Heat  butter,  add  vegetables  and  flour.  Fry  until  they  begin 
to  brown.  Add  seasonings  and  wine  and  simmer  15  minutes. 
Add  chicken  and  heat  it  completely  through.  Remove  chicken 
to  a  hot  platter.  Add  oil  to  contents  of  pan  and  stir  over  a  very 
slow  heat  until  well  mixed.  Do  not  boil.  Pour  over  meat.  Gar- 
nish with  croutons  and  serve. 


CAPON  WITH  PINENUTS 


1  capon 

Salt  and  pepper 

Vinegar 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

2  cloves,  crushed 


1  tablespoon  minced  green  onion 

Yz  pound  chopped  ham 

54  pound  lean  lamb,  chopped 

3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 

1  raw  egg 

1  pint  pinenuts,  peeled 


48  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Salt  and  pepper  capon  inside  and  out.  Wet  a  cloth  in  vinegar 
and  wrap  around  capon.  Mix  garlic,  parsley,  cloves  and  onion 
and  rub  all  over  cloth.  Lay  aside  all  day,  then  unwrap.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  chopped  capon  liver,  ham,  lamb,  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  raw  egg.  Stuff  bird.  Wrap  in  two  thicknesses  of  oiled 
paper.  Bake  5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (40o°F.),  then  reduce 
heat  to  moderate  (350°F.),  turning  occasionally.  Remove  top 
layer  of  paper  when  it  begins  to  scorch;  later  second  layer. 
Steam  pinenuts.  Remove  capon  to  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
pinenuts.  Make  a  gravy  of  pan  contents.  In  Italy,  the  capon 
is  wrapped  in  paper  and  cooked  on  a  spit  before  the  open  fire. 

MILANESE  CROQUETTES 

1  cup  cooked  chicken,  diced  fine  Thick  cream  sauce 

1  cup  cooked  tongue,  diced  fine  2  eggs,  well-beaten 
Y2  cup  minced  truffles  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 
!4  cup  cooked  macaroni,  Sifted  bread  crumbs 

chopped  Parsley  sprigs 

Salt  and  pepper  Deep  fat  for  frying 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 

Mix  meats,  truffles,  macaroni,  salt,  pepper,  and  Parmesan 
cheese;  add  sufficient  cream  sauce  to  hold  all  together.  Form 
into  croquettes.  Dip  in  egg  beaten  with  oil,  being  careful  to 
completely  cover;  then  dip  in  crumbs.  Fry,  drain  on  paper. 
Drop  parsley  sprigs  in  fat  and  fry  until  crisp.  Serve  croquettes 
on  a  folded  napkin  garnished  with  the  fried  parsley. 

BIRDS  SMOTHERED  IN  RICE 

3  pair  quail  or  squab  Salt  and  pepper 

%  cup  butter  1  cup  white  wine 

1  tablespoon  flour  1V2  cups  stock 

2  onions,  minced  Freshly  cooked  rice 

Vz  clove  garlic,  minced  1  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

1  grating  nutmeg 


ITALIAN  49 

Quarter  the  birds  and  chop  giblets.  Heat  J4  cup  of  the 
butter,  add  flour  and  onions  and  simmer  until  yellow,  stirring, 
constantly.  Lay  in  birds,  giblets  and  garlic,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  heat.  Add  a  little  wine  and  stock.  Cover 
closely  and  simmer,  adding  more  stock  and  wine  when  necessary. 
Have  rice  cooked,  drained  and  dried.  Mix  remaining  butter, 
melted  with  ]/2  cup  Parmesan  cheese  and  the  nutmeg.  Mix  with 
rice.  Arrange  rice  and  birds  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  com- 
pletely covering  each  portion  of  bird  with  rice.  Strain  gravy 
and  pour  over.  Spread  with  remaining  cheese.  Cover,  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  (3250  F.)  for  30  to  45 
minutes.    Serve  with  Italian  sauce. 


SAUCES 

(Salse) 


AGRO  DOLCE  SAUCE 
{For  roast  meats  and  game,  especially  venison,  boar,  and  hare) 

*4  pound  pine  nuts  l/2  ounce  candied  lemon  peel 

l/2  pound  pistachio  nuts  l/2  ounce  candied  orange  peel 

2  squares  chocolate,  unsweetened  2  tablespoons   dried   currants 

2  tablespoons   sugar  3  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

Yz  cup  white  wine  vinegar  1  cup  pan  gravy  from  meat 

Simmer  for  30  minutes.    Add  a  little  salt  if  necessary. 

GENOISE  SAUCE 
(For  salt  water  fish  and  broiled  fresh  water  fish) 

Head  of  the  fish  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  minced  carrot  Small  onion,  sliced 

1  sprig  sweet  basil  Salt 

1  clove  l/2  cup  claret 

4  peppercorns  Juice  of  l/2  lemon 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Cover  fish  head  with  cold  water,  add  all  other  ingredients 
except  claret,  lemon  juice  and  parsley.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  sim- 
mer 30  minutes.  Strain.  There  should  be  2  cups  of  liquid. 
Add  claret  and  cook  10  minutes.    Add  lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

ITALIAN  SAUCE 

3  shallots,  minced  1  cup  rich  brown  gravy 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt 

3  fresh  mushrooms,  minced  Pepper 

!/4  cup  white  wine  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

50 


ITALIAN  51 

Fry  shallots  in  butter  but  do  not  brown;  add  mushrooms 
and  continue  frying.  Add  wine,  gravy,  and  seasonings.  Simmer. 
Add  parsley  and  serve  with  either  meat  or  vegetables. 

MILANAISE  SAUCE 

2  mushrooms,  minced  2  tablespoons  Marsala 

2  anchovies,  soaked  and  shredded  %  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons   butter  1  dash  cayenne 

1  cup   meat   broth  Salt 

2  tablespoons  wine  vinegar  1  tablespoon   capers 

Slowly  simmer  mushrooms  and  anchovies  in  butter  until 
they  begin  to  brown.  Add  broth,  vinegar,  and  wine,  and  sim- 
mer.    Season.     Add  capers,  and  serve.     Especially  good  with 

grilled  meats. 

LIVOURNO  SAUCE 

(For  grilled  fish) 

8  anchovies  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup   mayonnaise  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Soak  anchovies  2  hours  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  skin  and 
remove  bones.  Mince  to  a  paste.  Add  to  mayonnaise  with 
lemon  juice  and  parsley  and  beat  together.    Serve  cold. 

PARMESAN  SAUCE 
(For  boiled  fish  or  mutton) 

1  small  onion,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  carrot,  grated  l/2  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  flour  1  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 

2  tablespoons  butter  cheese 
1  cup  meat  broth 

Fry  onion  and  carrot  in  butter,  add  flour  and  let  all  nicely 
brown.  Add  broth  and  seasonings  and  boil  5  minutes.  Place 
over  steam  and  add  Parmesan.  Stir  until  cheese  is  well  blended 
into  the  sauce. 


52  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

i  small  onion,  chopped  i  cup  meat  broth 

i  garlic  clove,  chopped  Salt 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Cayenne 

i  large  tomato,  chopped  i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  golden.  Add  tomato  and 
continue  frying.  Add  broth  and  simmer  until  sauce  thickens. 
Season  and  add  parsley. 

VENETIAN  SAUCE 
(For  fish) 

i  onion,  chopped  fine  2  egg  yolks 

1  cup  fish  broth x  Salt 

Yi  cup  white  wine  White  pepper 

2  ounces  butter,  melted  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Cook  onion  in  broth  10  minutes.  Add  wine  and  heat  to 
boiling.  Beat  butter  and  eggs  together  and  pour  liquid  over. 
Season  and  put  into  double  boiler.  Stir  and  beat  until  well 
blended,  taking  care  that  the  sauce  does  not  become  so  hot  that 
it  curdles.    Add  lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

These  are  popular  versions  of  sauces  which  vary  greatly  in 
ingredients,  proportions,  and  methods  of  preparation. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

(Salsa  di  Pomodoro) 

Pelligrino  Artusi,  in  his  "L'Arte  di  Mangiar  Bene,"  gives  the 
classic  tomato  sauce  of  Italy  thus: 

"Mince  together  %  onion,  1  garlic  clove,  1  finger-length  of 
celery,  several  bay  leaves,  and  parsley  to  taste.  Season  with  a 
little  oil,  salt  and  pepper;  cut  up  7  or  8  tomatoes,  and  put  all 


ITALIAN  53 

together  over  the  fire  to  cook.    Stir  now  and  then,  and  when 
the  sauce  is  the  consistency  of  cream,  strain  and  serve." 

Artusi  illustrates  the  universal  usefulness  of  this  sauce  by 
telling  an  anecdote  about  a  parish  priest  in  a  small  city  in  the 
vicinity  of  Rome.  The  good  father  "cacciava  il  naso  per  tuto" 
(stuck  his  nose  in  everything).  Although  he  was  much  be- 
loved, his  constant  meddling  eventually  won  him  the  nickname 
of  Don  Pomodoro,  or  Reverend  Tomato,  the  tomato  being  the 
chief  requisite  of  every  Italian  dish. 


VEGETABLES 

(Legumi) 


MRS.  EVE  KENT'S  ZUCCHINI 

(Zucchini  alia  Signora  Eve  Kent) 

4  medium-sized  onions,  sliced      4  tomatoes  (or  1  small  can) 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  pound  zucchini  (Italian 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  squash) 

Salt  and  pepper 

Slowly  fry  onions  and  garlic  in  oil  until  pale  golden.  Peel 
and  cut  up  the  tomatoes  and  add.  Simmer.  Without  peeling, 
cut  young  tender  zucchini  into  half -inch  slices.  Add  and  simmer 
20  minutes.  Carefully  lift  from  the  bottom  and  turn  when 
necessary  to  prevent  sticking.    Season  when  half  done. 

ENRICO'S  FRIED  ZUCCHINI 

{Zucchini  Fritto  alia  Enrico) 

il/2  pounds  zucchini  *4  cup  olive  oil 

1  garlic  clove  Salt  and  pepper 

Slice  young  tender  zucchini  very  thin  without  peeling.  Heat 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  crush  the  garlic  clove  and  add;  fry  until 
light  brown  and  remove.  Cover  bottom  of  frying  pan  with 
zucchini  slices  and  slowly  fry  on  one  side,  turn  and  fry  on  the 
other  side.  Season  and  push  to  one  side  of  the  pan  to  keep  hot 
and  finish  cooking.  In  the  empty  part  of  the  pan  fry  more  slices, 
season  and  place  under  those  already  fried.  Repeat  until  all  are 
done.  The  pan  must  be  a  wide  one,  and  the  heat  must  be 
centered  under  the  part  of  the  pan  in  which  the  active  frying 

54 


ITALIAN  55 

is  being  done.    After  the  initial  2  tablespoons  of  oil  the  rest  is 
to  be  added  a  little  at  a  time  as  needed.    Four  tablespoons  should 
be  sufficient  but  more  may  be  necessary  for  the  novice. 
This  is  the  most  delicious  of  zucchini  dishes. 

ZUCCHINI  FRIED  IN  DEEP  FAT 

Slice  young  firm  zucchini  with  a  potato  slicer.  Fry  in  deep 
fat  or  oil,  drain  on  absorbent  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve 
like  potato  chips. 

SMOTHERED  ZUCCHINI 

2  cups  zucchini  (cut  in  %-inch  1  small  tomato,  peeled  and 

dice)  sliced 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  beef  broth 

1  stalk    celery,    sliced    very    thin  Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  zucchini  in  butter  for  a  few  moments  until  partly 
browned.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  cover  closely,  reduce  heat, 
and  simmer  until  tender.  The  pan  may  be  wiped  with  garlic 
before  melting  the  butter. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

1  pound   Jerusalem   artichokes  2  tablespoons   butter 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  1  cup  meat  broth 

Pare  artichokes  and  trim  in  pear  shapes,  dropping  at  once 
into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Set  upright  and  close 
together  in  a  sauce  pan.  Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  seasonings, 
melted  butter  and  parsley.  Pour  broth  over,  cover  closely  and 
simmer  30  minutes,  basting  several  times.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish. 
Pour  liquid  over.    Thicken  with  a  little  flour  if  desired. 


56  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

CAULIFLOWER  ROMAN  STYLE 

(Cavolfiore  alia  Romagna) 

i  medium-sized   cauliflower  %  cup  chicken,  veal  or  pork 

Y2  onion,  minced  (minced) 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Meat  broth 

Vz  garlic  clove,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

i  large  tomato,  chopped  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Wash  cauliflower  in  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been 
added.  Separate  into  flowerets  and  boil  10  minutes  in  salted 
boiling  water.  Slowly  fry  onion  in  oil,  add  garlic,  tomato  and 
meat  and  fry  10  minutes.  Add  broth  and  season;  boil  10  minutes 
longer.  Put  cauliflower  in  a  wide  sauce  pan  and  pour  sauce 
over  it.  Cover  closely  and  simmer,  basting  occasionally.  Serve 
on  a  hot  platter  and  sprinkle  with  cheese. 

FENNEL 

(Finnochio) 

i  heads  finnochio  i  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

*4  cup  butter,  melted  i  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese 

i  hard-boiled  egg  Salt  and  paprika 

i  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Cut  off  tops  of  finnochio  and  quarter  the  heads.  Cook  until 
tender  in  salted  boiling  water.  Drain  and  place  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  cut  sides  up.  Pour  butter  over,  then  grated  egg. 
Mix  crumbs  and  cheese  and  sprinkle  over.  Brown  in  hot  oven 
(4000  F.).    Dash  with  salt  and  paprika  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

EGGPLANT  ITALIAN  STYLE 

1  medium-sized   eggplant  1  small  onion,  sliced 

Salt  and  cayenne  %  cup  butter 

Flour  for  dredging  1  cup  tomato  juice 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  lA  teaspoon  granulated  sugar 


ITALIAN  57 

Peel  eggplant  and  cut  in  Y2  inch  slices.  Salt  well  and  place 
under  weighted  plate  to  extract  the  acrid  flavor.  After  i  hour, 
drain,  dredge  with  flour,  dash  with  cayenne  and  slowly  fry  in 
3  tablespoons  of  the  butter  on  both  sides.  In  another  pan,  fry 
garlic  and  onion  in  remaining  butter  until  golden.  Add  tomato 
juice  and  sugar  and  simmer  until  well  combined.  Then  lay 
the  fried  eggplant  in  this  sauce.  Cover  and  simmer  10  minutes, 
basting  frequently. 

EGGPLANT  BAKED  WITH  EGG 

i  medium-sized  eggplant         i  small  onion,  sliced 
*4  cup  butter  iY2  cups  tomato  juice 

Salt  and  cayenne  x/i  teaspoon  sugar 

Flour  for   dredging  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  4  tablespoons   grated   Parmesan 

cheese 

Fry  the  eggplant  and  make  the  sauce  as  directed  above. 

Arrange  half  the  eggplant  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with 

half  the  egg  slices,  then  half  the  cheese,  and  half  the  sauce. 

Repeat.    Heat  for  a  few  moments  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the 

stove. 

SICILIAN  EGGPLANT 

1  medium-sized  eggplant  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
Salt  and  pepper  1  dash  cayenne 

2  cups  grated  Parmesan  cheese  1  garlic  clove 
2  eggs  Flour 

4  tablespoons  milk  Bread   crumbs 

Deep  fat  or  oil  for  frying 

Peel  eggplant  and  slice  very  thin;  season.  Mix  Parmesan 
cheese,  1  egg,  milk,  parsley,  and  cayenne,  making  a  paste.  Split 
the  garlic  clove  and  rub  it  over  the  eggplant  slices;  spread  half 
the  slices  with  the  paste;  lay  other  halves  on  top,  sandwich-wise. 
Dredge  the  sandwiches  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with 


58  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

a  few  drops  of  water,  then  dip  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  the 
deep  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper,  and 
serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 
(Peperoni  Ripieni) 

6  whole  green  peppers  2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

6  salted   anchovies  cheese 

3  tomatoes   (fresh  or  canned)       2  cups  rich  gravy 
*4  pound  cooked  chicken  or  1  cup  olive  oil 

Salt  and  paprika 

Toast  peppers  under  grill  or  drop  for  5  minutes  into  boiling 
water,  and  rub  off  skins.  Cut  off  stems;  cut  out  circle  from  top 
of  each,  remove  seeds  and  veins.  Have  anchovies  soaked  in  cold 
water  2  hours;  remove  skin  and  bones  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Chop  tomatoes  and  chicken.  Mix  anchovies,  tomatoes,  and 
chicken.  (If  a  drier  mixture  is  desired,  leave  out  some  of  the 
juice  of  tomatoes,  or  add  bread  crumbs  to  taste.)  Add  paprika 
to  taste  and  a  very  little  salt,  since  the  anchovies  are  salty.  Stuff 
peppers,  not  too  full,  and  close  by  replacing  circles  cut  from  tops. 
Lay  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  paprika  and  Parmesan 
cheese.  Add  gravy  to  pan,  bake,  and  serve  hot.  Or,  if  peppers 
are  to  be  eaten  cold,  heat  olive  oil  in  frying  pan,  add  peppers  and 
slowly  simmer;  cool  and  serve  as  hors  d'oeuvres. 

The  simplest  method  of  cooking  peppers,  in  the  Italian 
fashion,  is  to  quarter,  seed,  and  season  them.  Lay  them  in  a 
baking  dish  with  plenty  of  olive  oil,  and  bake  until  tender.  They 
are  good  either  hot  or  cold.  The  pepper-flavored  oil  left  in  the 
dish  may  be  used  for  frying. 

PEPPERS  BAKED  PLAIN 

Drop  peppers  into  boiling  water  for  5  minutes,  then  rub  off 
skins.    Cut  in  quarters;  remove  seeds  and  veins.    Lay  in  baking 


ITALIAN  59 

pan;  season;  sprinkle  liberally  with  olive  oil.    Bake  and  drain. 
(Save  superfluous  oil  for  frying.) 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  PARMESAN 

i  bunch  fresh  asparagus  4  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

Salt  and  pepper  cheese 

3  tablespoons   butter,   melted 

Choose  young  asparagus  with  green  tips;  cut  off  tough  ends 

and  cook  in  a  small  amount  of  salted  water;  drain  well,  lay  in 

fireproof  dish.     Cover  with  butter,  dust  with  pepper,  sprinkle 

thickly  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  brown  lightly  under  slow 

grill. 

FLORENTINE  SPINACH 

*4  cup  butter  3  eggs 

lA  cup  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

i1/?  cups  milk  3  cups  cooked  spinach 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk.  Beat  eggs 
lightly  and  add  to  white  sauce  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add 
spinach,  finely  chopped.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mold,  cover  and 
bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven  (35o°F.).  This 
should  take  about  1  hour. 

ARTICHOKE  HEARTS,  STUFFED 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Lettuce  leaves 

l/2  cup  Italian  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  capers 

Salt  and  pepper  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  can  artichoke  hearts  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 

1  botde  anchovies 

Beat  lemon  juice,  olive  oil  and  seasonings  in  a  bowl;  put  in 
the  artichoke  hearts  and  marinate  for  1  hour.  Place  each  heart 
on  a  lettuce  leaf,  scatter  capers,  green  pepper  and  chopped  egg 


60  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

over  each,  and  lay  a  ringed  anchovy  on  top.    Serve  with  finger- 
size  sandwiches,  spread  with  softened  sweet  butter  and  then 

chilled. 

MUSACA 

2  young  egg  plants  l/2  cup  meat  gravy 

Salt  and  pepper  \x/2  cups  strained  tomato 

3  eggs  Y2  teaspoon  sugar 

i  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs  l/2  teaspoon   paprika 

i  cup  butter  2  large  ears  tender  sweet  corn 

4  medium-sized  onions,  sliced  (or  canned  corn) 
3  cups    cooked    lamb   or   kid,  3  tablespoons  cream 

minced 

Peel  egg  plants  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  thumb.  Add 
2  tablespoons  salt  to  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  parboil  egg 
plant  10  minutes;  drain  and  dry  in  a  towel;  season  with  pepper. 
Beat  1  egg  slightly  with  1  tablespoon  water;  dip  egg  plant  in 
egg  and  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter.  Fry 
onions  golden  in  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  In  a 
deep  buttered  baking  dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  egg  plant, 
onions,  and  the  lamb  mixed  with  gravy,  finishing  with  layer  of 
egg  plant.  Season  tomato  with  salt,  sugar,  and  paprika  and 
pour  over.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  15  to  20  minutes. 
Split  down  the  grains  of  corn  and  scrape.  Beat  remaining  2 
eggs  lightly;  add  cream  and  beat;  add  corn,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  beat.  Pour  mixture  over  contents  of  baking  dish;  replace 
in  oven,  and  turn  off  the  heat.  After  10  minutes  place  under 
grill  to  lightly  brown. 

This  dish  came  from  the  Near  East  and  turns  up,  with 
changed  spelling  of  the  name,  in  a  number  of  Mediterranean 
countries.  The  recipe  is  very  adaptable,  and  can  be  simplified 
to  merely  egg  plant,  onions  and  tomato  sauce. 


ITALIAN  61 

SMOTHERED  MUSHROOMS 

l/2  pound  mushrooms  V2  garlic  clove,  crushed 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  mushrooms,  dry  in  a  towel,  and  cut  in  halves.  Mix 
oil,  garlic,  and  seasonings;  pour  over  mushrooms,  and  stir. 
Marinate  1  to  2  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Set  over  a  brisk 
fire,  cover  closely  and  fry  gently,  but  constantly  shaking  the  pan. 
When  they  begin  to  brown  reduce  heat  and  let  them  smother. 
Serve  as  a  garnish,  or  on  toast. 

SALADS 

Italians  are  constant  eaters  of  fresh  salads,  including  wild 
greens  from  the  fields.  They  are  satisfied  with  coarser  garden 
products  than  the  French,  the  tangy  romaine  lettuce  being  their 
great  contribution  to  the  salad  course. 

The  dressing  is  always  simple,  salad  being  looked  upon  as 
a  refreshing  aftertouch  to  their  somewhat  heavy  meals.  Their 
two  parts  of  olive  oil  to  one  of  wine  vinegar  produces  a  sharp 
.  sauce,  because  the  vinegar,  made  from  ordinary  red  wine,  is 
highly  acid.  Romaine,  or  other  lettuce,  plain,  or  with  thick  slices 
of  tomato,  onion,  fresh  or  pickled  green  peppers,  and  well  doused 
with  this  simple  dressing,  satisfies  the  Italian  palate.  Garlic 
lovers  can  go  the  limit  in  flavoring  such  hearty  salads. 

Cooked  or  fresh  vegetables,  seasoned  and  dipped  in  olive  oil, 
appear  on  the  antipasto  platter,  but  seldom  go  into  the  salad 
bowl. 


SWEETS 

(Dolci) 


In  Milan  a  large  part  of  the  Italian  populace  gathers  in 
sheltered  galleries  between  shops  to  sip  granite  and  other  lightly 
frozen  fruit-juice  ices.  The  Italian  partiality  for  cooling  drinks 
dates  back  to  remote  antiquity.  In  Naples  and  throughout 
Southern  Italy  snow  was  early  employed  for  the  freezing  of  all 
sorts  of  sorbetti  (sherbets)  as  well  as  for  cooling  drinks  and  the 
refrigerating  of  wines.  In  the  winter  season  snow  was  gathered 
from  the  mountains  and  stored  in  spacious  underground  vaults, 
where  it  was  tightly  packed  by  trampling  into  a  solid  mass. 
Open  pits  in  the  fields  were  dug  to  store  the  packed  snow  where 
it  remained  heavily  covered  with  leaves  until  wanted.  Sawed 
in  huge  blocks  it  was  taken  to  the  city  at  night  to  be  used  the 
next  day.  Fancy  street  stands  catered  to  the  aristocracy  with 
expensive  tumblers  of  iced  cordial,  while  a  penny  glass  of  snow 
water  slaked  the  thirst  of  the  masses. 

ICE  CREAMS 

Italian  ice  creams  do  not  differ  essentially  from  our  ice 
creams,  except  in  the  use  of  eggs;  usually  6  eggs  to  i  quart 
cream,  or  8  to  i  quart  milk;  but  with  few  exceptions  the  juicy 
fruits,  such  as  orange,  strawberry,  peach,  etc.,  are  not  combined 
with  cream.  They  are  used  in  water-ices,  sherbets  and  frozen 
fruits. 


62 


ITALIAN  63 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

%  cup  boiling  water  6  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  stick  cinnamon  il/2  cups  granulated  sugar 

5  squares  (i-ounce)  unsweet-  1  quart  cream 
ened  chocolate 

Pour  boiling  water  on  cinnamon  which  has  been  crushed 
and  let  steep  for  l/2  hour.  Pour  off  clear  liquid,  work  it  into 
chocolate  which  has  been  melted  over  hot  water  and  keep  warm. 
Prepare  custard  with  eggs,  sugar  and  cream  in  a  double  boiler. 
Add  spiced  chocolate.  Cool  and  freeze.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  piled  on  top. 

For  chocolate  caramel  ice  cream  add  3  tablespoons  of  caramel 
in  place  of  cinnamon. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM 

1  quart  heavy  cream  6  eggs 

3  ounces  freshly  roasted  coffee  il/z  cups    granulated    sugar 

(whole  beans)  Whipped  cream 

Put  1  pint  of  the  cream  into  a  double  boiler  with  coffee 
beans;  cover  tightly,  and  let  infuse  for  an  hour  in  warm  place 
(water  must  not  boil).  Strain  through  fine  muslin  into  remain- 
ing cream.  Make  a  boiled  custard  with  cream,  eggs,  and  sugar; 
cool,  freeze,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  piled  on  top. 

FROZEN  PEACHES 

12  large  ripe  peaches  2  cups  water 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  Flavor  as  desired 

Whipped  cream 

Cut  peaches  fine  and  mix  all  ingredients  together.  Stir  5 
minutes;  freeze,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


64  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

ALL-FRUITS  ICE 

(Gelato  de  Tutti-Frutti) 

i  cup  pistachio  nuts  4  ounces  candied  orange  peel 

or  almonds,  blanched  Kirsch 

4  ounces  candied  cherries  1  quart  pineapple  sherbet 

4  ounces  candied  apricots  1  quart  orange  sherbet 

Soak  nuts  and  fruits  in  kirsch  to  cover  until  soft.    Spread 

1  pint  of  pineapple  sherbet  in  a  thin  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 

2  quart  mold.  Set  mold  in  a  mixture  of  ice  and  salt.  Dice 
fruit  and  nuts,  add  to  orange  sherbet  and  pack  down  well  on 
first  layer.  Fill  mold  to  a  little  above  the  edge  with  remaining 
pineapple  ice,  press  lid  on  tightly,  seal  joints  with  a  buttered 
strip  of  muslin,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  freeze  2  or  3  hours. 

This  ice  is  a  general  favorite  in  Italy,  each  sorbetajo  (maker 
of  ices)  having  his  own  formula.  The  candied  fruits  are  soaked 
until  soft  in  lemon-  and  vanilla-flavored  syrups;  in  maraschino, 
kirsch,  or  any  desired  liquor. 

Other  combinations  of  fruits  are  used;  pears,  figs,  angelica, 
preserved  ginger  and  cumquats  give  a  pleasing  variety.  Almonds, 
pistachios,  chestnuts,  and  hazelnuts  soaked  in  hot  syrups  until 
soft,  and  chopped  fine,  are  added  to  fruits. 

ORANGE  GRANITE 

(Granita  d'Arancia) 

3  cups  orange  juice  1   quart  water 

2  cups  sugar 

About  1  dozen  oranges  are  needed.  Peel  six  of  them,  remove 
every  bit  of  the  white  and  cut  in  thin  slices;  lay  these  in  a  dish, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  stand  3  to  4  hours  to  make  a  rich 
syrup;  then  drain.  Squeeze  juice  of  remaining  oranges  into 
this.    Add  water,  mix  well,  and  strain  into  freezer.    When  half 


ITALIAN  65 

frozen,  like  wet  snow,  fill  small  glasses  and  serve.    These  ices  are 
delicious  but  will  not  stand. 

STRAWBERRY  GRANITE 

(Granita  di  Fragola) 

1%  cups  strawberry  juice       2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2%  cups  sugar  1  quart  water 

Mash  berries.  1  heaping  quart  of  ripe  berries  will  suffice. 
Cover  with  sugar  and  let  stand  several  hours  to  form  a  rich 
syrup.  Then  strain,  add  lemon  juice  and  water,  put  in  freezer 
and  freeze  until  mixture  has  a  snowy,  frosty  look.  Serve  in  tall, 
thin  glasses.  Raspberry  granite  is  made  the  same  way,  sub- 
stituting raspberries  for  strawberries.  Any  summer  fruit  drink 
may  be  served  as  a  granite  if  prepared  and  frozen  as  above. 

In  Italy,  France  and  Spain,  wherever  freezers  are  wanting, 
granites  are  frozen  in  wide-mouthed  water-jugs  or  bottles.  These 
are  filled  with  the  fruit  mixture,  set  in  ice  and  salt,  and  stirred 
with  a  spatula.  As  ice  forms  on  the  sides  it  is  scraped  down 
and  mixed  with  the  liquid. 

POMONA  SHERBET 

1  quart  fresh  sweet  cider  1   pint  orange  juice 

3  cups  granulated  sugar 

Mix  well;  let  stand  2-3  hours,  stir  thoroughly,  then  freeze 
hard.    Let  ripen  2-3  hours  packed  in  ice-salt  mixture. 

PEACH  SHERBET 

(Sorbetto  di  Pesche) 

1  quart  peach  pulp  1  pint  orange  juice 

3  cups  granulated  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly  peach  pulp,  orange  juice  and  sugar,  let  stand 
2-3  hours,  stir  well,  put  in  freezer  and  freeze  hard.  Let  ripen 
2-3  hours  packed  in  ice-salt  mixture. 


66  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

There  are  many  other  excellent  combinations;  such  as  pine- 
apple, orange  and  lemon;  strawberry,  raspberry  and  currant; 
grape,  with  cherry  and  plum.  As  these  fruit  sherbets  are  made 
without  water,  they  are  very  rich  in  body  and  luscious  in  taste. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

{Sorbretto  di  Ananas  so) 

i  large  ripe  pineapple  i  quart  water 

2  cups  granulated  sugar         2  tablespoons   lemon   juice 
2  tablespoons  orange  juice 

Peel,  slice  and  pound  pineapple  to  a  pulp.    Put  through  a 

strainer.     Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  and  let  cool.    Add 

fruit  juices  and  pineapple.    Strain  through  a  muslin  cloth  and 

freeze. 

ROMAN  PUNCH 

(Ponce  alia  Romano) 

1  quart  water  2  cups  powdered  sugar 

Juice  of  3  large  lemons  1  cup  Jamaica  rum 

Grated  rind  (yellow  only)  of  1  lemon 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl,  except  rum.  Beat  5  minutes, 
add  rum,  beat  2  minutes,  then  strain  into  freezer,  and  freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

1  pint  vanilla  ice  cream  2  ounces  candied  angelica, 
4  ounces   candied   cherries,  shredded 

halved  1  pint  raspberry  water  ice 

2  ounces  candied  orange,        1  pint  pistachio  ice  cream 

shredded  Maraschino  sauce 

Line  a  chilled  3-pint  mold  with  vanilla  ice  cream.  Scatter 
over  it  Y2  the  fruit,  thoroughly  mixed.  Spread  water  ice  over 
fruit  and  fill  in  with  pistachio  ice  cream.  Cover  tightly.  Pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  1V2  hours.    Serve  with  Maraschino  sauce. 


ITALIAN  67 

MARASCHINO  SAUCE 

1  cup  whipping  cream  2  tablespoons  maraschino 

J4  cup  powdered  sugar 

Put  cream  in  a  bowl  set  in  chopped  ice.  Add  maraschino 
and  beat,  adding  sugar  gradually  until  it  becomes  a  stiff  froth. 
1  tablespoon  of  rum  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  maraschino. 

NEAPOLITAN  BISCUITS  GLACES 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Y2  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

y3  cup  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  any 

8  egg  yolks  desired   liqueur 

1  quart  whipping  cream 

Combine  sugar  and  water  and  cook  together  3  minutes.  Add 
to  beaten  egg  yolks,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  mixture  coats  a  spoon.  Add  flavorings  and  beat  until  cold. 
Whip  cream  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  hold  its  shape,  then 
fold  in  lightly.    Fill  molds  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 


BREADS  AND  CAKES 


CHESTNUT  SWEET  BREAD 
(Castagnaccio) 

Add  to  chestnut  flour  a  little  salt  and  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  firm  dough.  Knead  in  broken  walnut  meats,  bits  of  blanched 
almonds,  raisins,  or  currants,  and  form  into  a  round  loaf.  Cover 
bottom  of  a  frying  pan  (a  copper  one  is  used)  with  olive  oil, 
put  in  dough,  sprinkle  top  with  oil  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
This  sweet  bread  is  popular  throughout  Northern  Italy,  where 
chestnuts  form  a  good  part  of  the  peasant's  fare. 

ITALIAN  SWEET  BREAD 

i  cup  butter  2  cups  flour,  sifted 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  J4  pound   candied   fruit   peel, 

6  eggs  shredded 

Cream  butter  in  a  warm  bowl.  Add  sugar  gradually  and 
beat  until  mixture  is  light  and  creamy.  Add  eggs;  2  at  a  time, 
beating  mixture  well  after  each  addition.  Stir  in  flour.  Butter 
a  long  narrow  pan.  Alternate  in  it  a  layer  of  batter  and  one  of 
fruit  until  all  are  used.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (375°  F.). 

Because  Italy  is  a  wine  country  the  early  development  of 
bread  making  was  through  the  use  of  eggs  rather  than  brewer's 

yeast  NEAPOLITAN  BREAD 

Grated  rind  (yellow  only)  1  egg,  well  beaten 

of  1  orange  l/2  pound  Italian  almond  paste 

68 


ITALIAN  69 

Mix  orange  rind  with  paste,  divide  into  small  pieces  size 

of  a  walnut;  roll  these  lengthwise  about  x/i  mcn  thick;  braid 

three  together;   brush  over   with   beaten   egg  and   bake   in   a 

moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.).    The  paste  may  also  be  rolled 

into  long  thin  rolls,  braided  together  and  then  cut  into  21/2-inch 

lengths. 

6  CHRISTMAS  CAKE 

(Panettone  di  Natale) 

Vz  compressed  yeast  cake  l/z  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup   granulated    sugar  2  tablespoons  candied  citron, 

Lukewarm  milk  chopped 

1  cup  butter  lA  cup  seedless  raisins 

4  eggs  2  tablespoons  almonds,  shredded 

2  cups  cake  flour  2  tablespoons     candied     orange 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  peel,  chopped 

Crumble  yeast  with  1  teaspoon  of  the  sugar  and  dissolve  in 
J4  cup  lukewarm  milk.  Let  rise  until  light  and  bubbly.  Cream 
butter  with  remaining  sugar.  Break  eggs  into  a  measuring  cup, 
fill  up  with  milk  and  beat  slightly.  Sift  flour  and  salt  together 
and  mix  with  fruit.  Stir  into  creamed  butter  and  sugar  mixture 
alternately  with  eggs  and  milk.  Add  risen  yeast  and  beat  to  a 
smooth  batter.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Butter  a  tube  pan,  sprinkle 
with  the  almonds  and  fill  %  full  of  the  mixture.  Cover  closely 
and  let  rise  over  night.  Bake  50  to  60  minutes  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  (375°  F.). 

Pizza,  a  pastry  filled  with  fruit  and  eggs,  is  another  favorite 

Christmas  cake. 

GENOESE  CAKES 

(Pane  di  Genovese) 

1%  cups  cake  flour  4  eggs 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  brandy 
J4  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  butter,  softened 


7o 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


Put  all  ingredients  except  butter  in  a  bowl  and  mix  well  to- 
gether. Work  in  butter  thoroughly.  Pour  batter  about  J4  inch 
deep  into  buttered,  lightly  floured  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (3500  F.). 

This  cake  is  the  foundation  of  innumerable  small  fancy  and 
large  cakes.  It  is  cut  into  squares,  rounds,  and  any  desired  shapes, 
and  ornamented  with  icings,  meringues,  colored  jellies,  candies, 
nuts,  etc.  The  recipe  is  doubled  for  larger  cakes.  Small  fruited 
cakes  are  made  by  adding  a  few  raisins  or  shredded  candied  fruit 
to  batter.  Place  in  buttered  patty  pans,  put  on  to  baking  sheet 
covered  with  a  thick  layer  of  ashes  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE 


3%  cups  cake  flour 

1  cup  sugar,  finely  sifted 

2  cups  blanched  almonds, 

ground 


1  cup  butter 

5  egg  y°lks 

Grated  rind  of  2  oranges 

%  teaspoon  salt 


Put  ingredients  into  a  bowl,  and  work  to  a  smooth  dough. 
Knead  the  dough  into  a  roll  the  size  of  a  rolling  pin,  wrap  in 
wax  paper  and  leave  on  ice  for  1  hour.  Cut  roll  into  10  or  12 
equal  slices.  Roll  these  out  in  rounds  about  7  inches  in  diameter, 
place  in  buttered  layer-cake  tins,  trimming  to  fit;  prick  well  with 
a  fork  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  to  a  delicate  brown. 
When  done  lay  them  on  a  marble  slab  or  table  and  cover  with 
a  baking  sheet  to  keep  them  straight  while  cooling.  Pile  in 
tiers  with  jelly,  marmalade  or  cream  filling  between  layers. 
3-inch  rounds  may  be  cut  from  center  of  each  layer  before  bak- 
ing, and  the  hollow  filled  with  whipped  cream,  flavored  and 
sweetened  to  taste. 

CHESTNUT  CAKES 


1  pound  chestnuts 
*4  cup  butter 

2  or  3  tablespoons  whipped 


%  cup  granulated  sugar 
Y2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  egg  yolk 


cream 


ITALIAN  71 

Cook  chestnuts  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  until  the 
skins  will  come  off  easily.  Peel  and  put  them  into  a  mortar 
with  butter  and  a  little  whipped  cream.  Pound  well,  then  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve,  being  careful  that  the  puree  is  not  too  wet. 
Put  puree  into  a  bowl  and  add  sugar,  then  vanilla,  and  form 
mixture  into  small  cakes.  Put  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet,  make 
a  slight  incision  on  top  of  each,  brush  over  with  egg  yolk  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  (400°F.). 

MERINGUE 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla  or  1  tea- 

Yz  cup  water  spoon  any  desired  liqueur 

6  egg  whites 

Put  sugar  and  water  over  fire  in  saucepan  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  With  a  damp  cloth  wipe  away  any  drops 
of  moisture  that  may  form  on  sides  of  pan  and  cook  without 
stirring  until  syrup  will  spin  a  long  thread  from  tip  of  spoon. 
Remove,  add  flavor,  and  set  pan  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Beat 
egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Pour  into  syrup.  Beat  until 
mixture  is  a  cold  smooth  paste.  This  is  used  in  making  meringue 
shells  and  fancy  small  cakes,  also  for  decoration  and  to  com- 
bine with  whipped  creams  and  ices;  in  fact,  the  Italian  chef 
with  pastry  bag  and  tube,  plus  imagination  and  patience,  per- 
forms magic  with  this  paste,  which  is  first  cousin  to  our  own 

boiled  frosting. 

&      ITALIAN  MACAROONS 

(Biscotto  di  Mandorle) 

6  egg  yolks  1  Vz  cups  cake  flour,  sifted 

2  cups   powdered  sugar  6  egg  whites 

%  teaspoon  salt  1V2  cups   blanched   almonds, 
1  teaspoon  orange  rind,  grated  shredded 

Combine  egg  yolks,  sugar,  salt  and  grated  orange  rind  and 
beat  until  thick  and  creamy.  Stir  in  l/i  tne  flour.  Beat  egg 
whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and  fold  in  l/2  of  them.    Add  re- 


72  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

maining  flour  and  egg  whites,  alternately.  Put  mixture  into  a 
pastry  bag  and  squeeze  out  in  rounds  and  ovals  about  3  inches 
in  diameter  on  buttered  and  floured  baking  sheets.  Sprinkle 
almonds  on  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  (350°F.)  until 
they  are  delicately  browned. 

ITALIAN  ALMOND  PASTE 

1  cup  blanched  almonds         3%  cups  sifted  cake  flour 
5  €gg  yolks  iVz  cups  butter 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  1  egg 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Pound  almonds  with  4  egg  yolks  and  1  tablespoon  sugar  to 
a  paste.  Sift  flour  on  to  pastry  board,  and  make  a  well  in  center. 
Put  in  butter,  almond  paste,  remaining  yolk,  whole  egg  and 
lemon  rind.  Work  this  with  hands  to  a  stiflF  dough  and  leave 
on  ice  1  hour  before  using. 

DATE  MERINGUES 

3  egg  whites  54  cup    blanched    almonds, 

1%  cup   powdered   sugar  chopped  fine 

Yz  cup  pitted  dates,  chopped  fine      4  drops  bitter  almond  extract 

Beat  egg  whites  till  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Add  sugar  gradually, 
then  dates  and  almonds.  Shape  with  spoon  on  a  baking  sheet 
covered  with  heavy  paper.  Flavor  with  almond.  Bake  45  to 
50  minutes  in  slow  oven  (250°F.). 

SWEET  DUMPLINGS 
(Gnocchi  Dolci) 

5  egg  yolks  lA  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs 

2  egg  whites  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  cake  flour  1  tablespoon  grated  orange  rind 

Pinch  salt  !4  cup  powdered  sugar 

%  teaspoon  cinnamon 


ITALIAN  73 

Combine  3  egg  yolks,  2  egg  whites,  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  milk 
in  a  bowl  and  stir  together  thoroughly.  Strain  into  a  double 
boiler.  Add  butter  and  cook  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  5  minutes  longer,  stirring  vigorously. 
Remove  from  heat,  pour  into  a  bowl  and  add  2  remaining  egg 
yolks  and  orange  rind.  Put  mixture  on  to  a  well-floured  board, 
shape  into  small  balls  and  flatten  slightly.  Drop  into  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  2  minutes,  remove  pan  to  side  of  stove  and 
allow  to  stand  5  minutes.  Remove  dumplings,  drain  and  arrange 
in  layers  on  a  hot  dish.  Sprinkle  with  the  combined  powdered 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  bread  crumbs,  brush  with  butter  and  serve. 

FARINA  SOUFFLE 

*4  cup  farina  lA  teaspoon  salt 

2l/i  cups  milk  l/i  cup  blanched  almonds,  cut 

2  tablespoons  butter  fine 

6  eggs  4  drops  almond  extract 

}4  cup  granulated  sugar    2  ounces  seedless  raisins 

Cook  farina  with  milk  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  add 
butter  and  cool.  Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar  and  salt  and  mix 
into  farina  when  cold;  add  almonds,  extract  and  raisins,  and  mix 
well.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and  fold  in.  Put 
in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  40  to  45  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  (35o°F.).  Dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve 
with  cream  of  wine  sauce. 

CORN  MEAL  SOUFFLE 

(Soufflet  di  Farina) 

3  cups  milk  lA  cup  granulated  sugar 
l/2  cup  butter                       Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
14  teaspoon  salt                  8  egg  yolks 

1  cup  corn  meal  8  egg  whites 

Marmalade 


74  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Scald  milk  with  tablespoon  of  the  butter  and  the  salt.    Stir 

in  corn  meal  very  slowly  and  cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste. 

Remove  from  heat  and  cool.     Cream  remaining  butter  with 

sugar,  add  grated  lemon  rind.     Beat  in  egg  yolks  thoroughly, 

add  cooled  paste.    Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and 

fold  into  mixture.     Put  a  2-inch  layer  of  the  mixture  into  a 

buttered  pudding  dish,  spread  marmalade  over  it  and  continue 

to  alternate,  having  top  layer  of  mixture.    Serve  with  Marsala 

wine  sauce. 

SWEET  PASTIES 

(Dolce  Ravioli) 

i%  cups  pastry  flour  i  egg  white 

1Y2  tablespoons  butter  2  egg  yolks 

\l/z  tablespoons  lard  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 

Water  l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

l/z  pound  cottage  cheese  or  milk  Powdered  sugar 
curd 

Mix  first  4  ingredients  to  a  stiff  dough  and  roll  out  thin. 
Combine  remaining  ingredients  and  put  by  teaspoonfuls  on  1 
side  of  pastry,  about  2  inches  from  edge  and  2  inches  apart.  Fold 
over  edge  to  cover  piles.  Cut  into  squares  with  mixture  in  the 
center  of  each  square.  Seal  edges  securely.  Fry  in  hot  fat  to  a 
golden  brown.    Serve  with  powdered  sugar. 

CHESTNUT  FRITTERS 

(Fritella  di  Castagnd) 

1  cup  chestnuts,  shelled  and       1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar 

peeled  %  teaspoon   vanilla 

1  cup  milk  3  egg  yolks 

J4  teaspoon  salt  l/2  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  butter  Powdered  sugar 

Add  chestnuts  to  salted  milk  and  simmer  until  tender. 
Drain  and  mash  through  a  sieve.    Add  butter,  sugar,  vanilla 


ITALIAN  75 

and  2  of  the  egg  yolks.  Mix  well  and  cool.  Take  a  spoonful  at 
a  time,  roll  into  balls  and  dip  in  remaining  egg  yolk  which  has 
been  beaten.  Dip  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

CORNMEAL  FRITTERS 

(Fritelle  di  Polenta) 

i  cup  milk  i  tablespoon  butter 

i  tablespoon  granulated  sugar     i  egg  yolk 
Few  grains  salt  i  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

Y2  cup  cornmeal  i  egg,  well  beaten 

%  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs 

Put  milk,  sugar  and  salt  into  double  boiler  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Add  cornmeal  slowly,  constantly  stirring;  then  let  it  boil 
gently  20  minutes.  Remove,  and  stir  in  the  butter,  egg  yolk, 
and  lemon  rind.  Turn  mixture  on  to  a  dampened  board  and 
spread  about  Vz-mch  thick.  Cool,  cut  into  rounds  or  squares, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  bread  crumbs,  and  cook  in 
deep  hot  fat.    Drain,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

CHERRY  FRITTERS 

1%  cups  flour  1  egg,  well  beaten 

Y4  teaspoon  salt  Fresh  cherries 

1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar  Sweet  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Powdered  sugar 
%  cup  milk  Cinnamon 

Sift  flour  with  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder.  Add  milk 
gradually,  stir  to  a  smooth  batter  and  add  beaten  egg.  Select 
big  cherries  with  stems,  tie  in  small  bunches  at  stem  ends.  Put 
a  few  bunches  into  a  frying  pan  with  enough  sweet  butter  to 
fry  them  and  drop  a  small  amount  of  the  batter  around  them. 
When  the  batter  is  set  and  nicely  brown,  remove  fritters  to  a 
hot  plate.    Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon;  serve  hot. 


j6  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

PINE  NUT  TARTS 
{Torta  col  Pinoli) 

%  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  granulated  sugar 

i  small  stick  cinnamon  i  tablespoon  butter 

i  quart  milk  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

V2  cup  white  corn  meal  Pastry  dough 

Yz  cup  pine  nut  meats  1  egg  yolk 

Powdered  sugar 

Combine  salt,  cinnamon  and  milk  in  top  part  of  double 

boiler,  bring  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  corn  meal  slowly.    Cook  2l/2 

hours.    Blanch  pine  nuts  and  chop  coarsely.    Remove  cinnamon 

from  corn  meal,  stir  in  sugar,  butter,  nuts  and  eggs.    Butter  a 

shallow  pie  tin  (not  over  1  inch  deep)  and  line  it  with  thinly 

rolled  pastry.    Brush  with  beaten  egg  yolk.    Bake  in  a  moderate 

oven   (350°F.)   until  brown.     Dust  with  powdered  sugar  and 

serve  cold. 

PASTRY  DOUGH 

Mix  to  a  soft  dough,  but  firm  enough  to  roll  out  well,  il/2 
cups  pastry  flour,  %  CUP  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  and  1  egg.  Add 
Marsala  wine  if  more  liquid  is  required. 

GENOESE  PASTRY 
(Torta  di  Genovese) 

Y*  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 

Y2  cup  sifted  granulated  sugar  1  cup  sifted  pastry  flour 

Y2  cup  blanched  almonds  l/2  teaspoon   vanilla 

Orange  flower  water  Apricot  jam 

4  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Confectioner's  sugar 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  beat  until  creamy;  pound 
almonds  with  a  little  orange  flower  water  to  a  paste  and  add  to 
creamed  mixture.    Add  2  egg  whites,  one  at  a  time,  and  egg 


ITALIAN  77 

yolks  separately.  Stir  flour  in  gradually  and  add  vanilla.  Line' 
rim  of  a  pie  tin  with  a  border  of  rich  puff  paste,  pour  in  mix- 
ture, and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  Remove  when  done 
and  spread  a  layer  of  apricot  jam  on  top.  Make  an  icing  with 
remaining  egg  whites,  lemon  juice,  and  enough  confectioner's 
sugar  to  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  butter.    Spread  over  pie. 

Serve  cold. 

ALMOND  PUDDING 

(Budino  di  Mandorle) 

2  egg  yolks  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  cup  almonds,  grated 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  2  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs 

4  egg  whites 

Beat  egg  yolks  to  a  cream  with  sugar,  lemon  rind  and  juice, 
grated  almonds  and  cracker  crumbs.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff 
but  not  dry,  and  fold  in.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°F.). 
Serve  cold  with  lemon  sauce. 

1  cup  of  boiled  rice  may  be  used  instead  of  almond  meal, 

if  desired. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

(Budino  Nero) 

il/2  cups  light  brown  sugar         %  teaspoon  salt 
\l/i  cups  blanched  almonds,        6  egg  whites 
chopped 

Put  sugar  into  a  saucepan  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  color, 
stir  in  almonds  and  salt.  Turn  into  slightly  buttered  dish  to  cool; 
then  pound  to  a  powder  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Beat  egg 
whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry,  fold  in  powdered  almonds,  and 
place  mixture  in  a  buttered  mold.  Cover,  put  on  a  trivet  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water  and  poach  gently.    Serve  cold. 


78  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

3  cups  milk  i  cup  honey 
2  tablespoons  grated  lemon  peel  %  teaspoon  mace 

4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  3  ounces  bread  crumbs 
Y2  cup  blanched  almonds,  ground  Puff  paste 
2  ounces    candied    orange    peel, 

chopped  fine 

Scald  milk  with  grated  lemon  peel,  gradually  add  to  grated 
chocolate  and  stir  until  smooth.  Cool,  mix  in  almonds,  orange 
peel,  honey,  spice,  and  bread  crumbs.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
until  well  thickened.  Line  a  buttered  cake  tin  with  a  thin  puff 
paste  and  spread  mixture  in  it.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.). 

LITTLE  CREAM  PUDDINGS 

4  egg  yolks  Powdered    macaroons    or 
54  cup  granulated  sugar  Grated  cheese  or 

Y2  teaspoon   vanilla  Nutmeg  or  grated  lemon 

3  cups  light  cream  rind 

Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar  and  vanilla  and  stir  in  cream. 

Pour  into  buttered  custard  cups.    Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  on 

top  of  stove,  cover  with  paper  and  boil  until  custards  are  firm. 

Remove  cups  from  water  and  chill.    Before  serving,  sprinkle  with 

powdered  macaroons,  grated  cheese,  nutmeg  or  grated  lemon 

rind. 

MILK  OF  ALMOND  RICE  PUDDING 

%  cup  rice  4  drops  almond  extract 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  blanched  almonds 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  cream 

Rind  of  14  lemon  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

Wash  rice  and  pour  into  boiling  water  with  salt,  lemon 
rind  and  almond  extract.  Cook  in  double  boiler  12  minutes. 
Pound  almonds  with  cream  in  a  mortar.  Strain  through  a  cheese 
cloth,  rubbing  all  liquid  through.    Remove  rice  from  fire,  take 


ITALIAN  79 

out  lemon  rind,  stir  in  powdered  sugar  and  add  almond  milk. 
Return  to  heat  and  cook  12  minutes  longer,  stirring  frequently. 
Pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

4  ounces  pearl  tapioca  4  eggs 

1  quart  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  l/i  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and  drain. 
Add  to  hot  milk  and  cook  30  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Take 
from  fire,  cool,  add  sugar  and  stir  1  minute.  Beat  eggs,  add 
vanilla  and  salt  to  them  and  combine  with  tapioca,  beating  2 
minutes  longer.  Butter  and  sugar  six  cup  molds,  fill  with  mix- 
ture and  set  in  baking  pan  filled  to  half  the  height  of  molds 
with  warm  water.  Bake  35  minutes  in  moderately  slow  oven 
(325°F.).    Serve  with  sago  wine  sauce. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING 

Make  as  for  tapioca  pudding,  substituting  4  ounces  of  ver- 
micelli for  tapioca.    Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

MARSALA  WINE  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  flour  1V2  tablespoons  butter 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  Vi  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  Marsala 

Mix  flour  with  cold  water.  When  smooth  add  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly.  Heat;  add  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  cook 
5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.    Add  sugar  and  wine,  and  serve. 

SAGO  WINE  SAUCE 

2  ounces  sago  1  cup  claret 

1  cup  water  Juice  of  1  orange 

Yi  cup  granulated  sugar  2  tablespoons  rum 


80  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Soak  sago  2  hours  in  water,  then  boil  in  same  water  until 
clear,  add  sugar,  claret  and  orange  juice  and  stir  until  mixture 
thickens,  then  add  rum.    Serve  with  cereal  puddings. 

ROASTED  CHESTNUTS 

Make  a  gash  on  one  side  of  fine  large  Italian  chestnuts.  Put 
them  on  a  pan  with  a  perforated  bottom,  place  over  a  moderate 
fire  and  when  they  are  cooked  wrap  them  in  a  cloth  for  10  or 
12  minutes.    Serve  with  salt  and  butter. 

SUGARED  CHESTNUTS 

Roast  chestnuts  as  for  the  table,  remove  skins  and  cut  in 
halves.  Dip  the  halves,  one  at  a  time,  in  well-beaten  egg  white, 
then  roll  them  in  powdered  sugar  and  lay  on  paper  in  a  slow 
oven  (250°F.)  to  dry.    Do  not  touch  until  dry. 

CHESTNUT  AND  RAISIN  COMPOTE 

(Composto  di  Frutta) 

1  pound  chestnuts  i-inch  stick  cinnamon 

2  teaspoons  olive  oil  %  teaspoon  allspice 
1  pound  Sultana  raisins,  seeded  !/4  teaspoon  cloves 
Juice  and  grated  rind  l/2  lemon  l/2  cup  granulated  sugar 

Score  chestnuts  on  flat  side  with  sharp  knife;  parboil  5 
minutes,  drain,  put  in  frying  pan  with  olive  oil  and  shake  over 
a  hot  fire  for  5  minutes;  then  remove  brown  skins  with  outer 
shells.  Cover  with  salted  boiling  water,  cook  gently  until  tender 
and  drain.  Put  raisins  in  a  bowl  with  lemon  juice  and  rind 
and  spices.  Cover  with  water  and  simmer  over  fire  until  water 
is  nearly  absorbed.  Add  sugar,  mix  in  chestnuts  and  cook  until 
well  blended. 


ITALIAN  81 

PEACH  COMPOTE 

6  ripe  peaches  i  cup  red  wine 

6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  i-inch  stick  cinnamon 

i  teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel 

Pare  and  slice  peaches,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
set  aside.  Put  wine,  cinnamon,  and  lemon  peel  into  a  pan,  boil 
4  or  5  minutes  and  strain  over  peaches.  Cover  and  let  stand  2 
hours  before  serving. 

FIGS  ROMAN  STYLE 

(Fiches  alia  Romano) 

Line  individual  bowls  with  split  lady  ringers.  Put  in  bottom 
of  each  a  layer  of  vanilla  ice  cream,  then  place  a  ripe  fig,  peeled 
and  quartered,  over  cream.  Sprinkle  over  with  Marsala,  cover 
with  a  maraschino  sauce,  and  dust  with  powdered  macaroons. 
Serve  bowls  in  plates  of  ice. 

Judging  from  the  wealth  of  figs  in  Italy  the  Garden  of 
Eden  must  have  been  located  there.  Italian  figs  range  in  size 
from  tiny  plums  to  mammoth  peaches  and  in  color  all  the  way 
from  black  to  white.  The  greens,  purples  and  reds  are  especially 
delicious.  Placed  side  by  side  in  accordance  with  the  spectrum, 
they  form  a  radiant  and  appetizing  rainbow  of  both  taste  and 
color,  for  each  variety  has  a  flavor  as  distinctive  as  its  hue. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  CONSERVE 

Use  a  wide-mouthed  gallon  jar,  either  porcelain  or  glass, 
with  a  tight-fitting  cork.  Put  in  i  pint  of  brandy  and  add  fruits, 
following  the  season.  Start  with  strawberries,  and  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  add  i  pound  of  sugar.  Put  fruit  in  when  fresh 
and  stir  with  wooden  spoon.  Remove  hulls  and  stems  from 
berries,  remove  pits  from  all  pitted  fruits;  plums,  peaches,  and 

& 

be 


82  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


apricots  should  also  be  pared.  Grapes  must  be  seeded,  but  the 
skins  may  be  left  on  or  not,  according  to  taste.  When  the  last 
fruit  is  added,  let  stand  for  a  week,  then  it  is  ready  to  use.  Keep 
jar  well  corked,  except  when  putting  in  fruit  and  stirring.  Keep 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  The  juice  makes  excellent  pudding  sauce. 
Add  a  little  water  and  thicken.  It  also  is  a  fine  accompaniment 
to  fruit  ice  creams  and  of  course  the  brandied  fruit  jazzes  up  a 
tutti-frutti  ice. 

ITALIAN  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

(Formaggio) 

7  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  Marsala  wine 

Juice  3  lemons  1  quart  cream 

Mix  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  wine  in  a  bowl.  Add  cream, 
beating  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Whip  until  mixture  is  quite  thick. 
It  will  take  about  30  minutes.  Lay  a  muslin  cloth  over  a  hair 
sieve  and  pour  in  cream.  Let  stand  12  hours  and  drain;  then 
turn  out  and  garnish  with  flowers. 

This  dessert  combines  deliciously  with  a  wine  dinner. 


WINES 

(Vinos) 


OF  WINES 

Non  in  solo  pane  vivit  homo 
(Man  does  not  live  by  bread  alone) 

This  ancient  saying  is  especially  suited  to  the  Italians,  for 
they  lead  the  world  in  the  quantity  of  wine  drunk  with  meals. 
The  French,  of  course,  pay  more  attention  to  vintage  and  quality 
and  though  on  occasion  they  do  serve  champagne  in  half  gallon 
magnums  and  full  gallon  Jeroboams,  these  are  nothing  in  size, 
compared  to  the  demijohns,  nay  carboys,  of  Italian  Chianti  that 
hold  five  and  ten  gallons  apiece.  Such  giant  bottles  are  used  at 
parties  and  even  then  there's  not  enough  to  go  around.  In  wine- 
drinking,  as  in  everything  else,  the  French  are  thrifty  and  serve 
un  quart  (J4  litre,  approximately  54  Pmt)  with  the  table  d'hote, 
but  the  Italians  are  world-record  spendthrifts  of  red  ink.  In 
the  famed  red-wine  section  of  Tuscany,  where  a  lunch  of  wine, 
cheese  and  bread  is  usually  taken  right  in  the  wine  shop  itself, 
the  festive  straw-covered  bottle  is  as  big  and  round  as  a  bowling 
ball  and  holds  about  three  quarts,  which  is  just  twelve  times 
as  much  as  the  customary  tumbler-full  of  France.  The  Tuscany 
measure  is  called  a  fiasco  and  one  is  allotted  to  each  individual, 
although  he  needn't  drink  it  all,  for  after  the  finger  bowl  is 
served,  the  cameriere  (waiter)  removes  the  bottle,  accurately 
gauges  the  amount  consumed  and  charges  accordingly.  This 
fiasco,  whose  name  has  nothing  to  do  with  "failure"  as  we  use 
it,  is  an  oddity  among  bottles,  because  it  has  neither  cork  nor 

83 


84  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

stopper  of  any  kind.  It  is  sealed  air  tight  by  a  small  quantity 
of  olive  oil  floated  in  on  top  and  when  the  wine  is  required  for 
drinking  this  is  blotted  up  with  absorbent  waste  or  neatly 
tossed  out  of  the  neck.  Before  cork  came  to  Italy  from  Spain 
a  piece  of  tow  dipped  in  oil  was  the  original  stopper. 

This  ancient  duchy  of  Tuscany  includes  the  romantic  old 
towns  of  Florence  and  Siena,  celebrated  down  the  centuries 
for  climate  and  vineyards  that  combine  to  produce  the  great 
Chiantis  and  Ruflnas.  Its  other  red  wines  are  Artiminio,  Car- 
mignana,  Montalbano,  Monte  Pulciano,  Montalcino  and  Monte 
Argentario.  The  red  muscat  wine  of  Aleatico  is  the  sweetest 
of  the  lot,  it  is  more  purple  than  red  and  therefore  called  nero, 
(black).  Jvlonte  Pulciano  is  the  best  known  produce  of  Aleatico, 
but  it  has  serious  rivals  in  Monte  Catini,  Val  de  Rievole  and 
Ponte  a  Moriano.  The  wines  of  this  whole  province  usually 
appear  with  the  entree  and  are  drunk  straight  through  the  meal. 
The  two  outstanding  whites  of  Tuscany  are  Elba  and  Pomino, 
and  the  famed  Est,  Est,  Est  is  grown  nearby.  There  used  to  be 
a  greenish  vintage,  too,  Verdea  of  Arcetri,  near  Florence,  which 
was  the  favorite  beverage  of  Frederick  the  Great. 

The  story  of  Est,  Est,  Est  has  been  told  many  times,  though 
probably  never  before  in  a  cook  book.  A  German  prelate,  Bishop 
Fuger,  liked  this  white  wine  so  well  that  he  drowned  himself 
in  it,  by  consuming  flagon  after  flagon.  It  seems  that  this 
bibulous  clergyman,  before  undertaking  a  trip  from  his  Prussian 
parish  to  pay  his  respects  to  the  Pope  at  Rome,  sent  a  courier 
ahead  to  spot  Italian  taverns  where  he  could  be  sure  of  getting 
the  best  wine.  The  advance  agent  was  to  chalk  the  word  "Est," 
it  is,  or  this  is  it,  on  the  door  of  the  inns  that  would  best  suit 
the  Bishop,  but  when  he  came  to  a  little  village  between  Florence 
and  Rome  he  found  such  a  surpassing  tipple  that  he  wrote 
Est!  Est!  Est!  Here  it  is!  This  is  it!  Oh,  Bishop!  So  when 
the  Reverend  Fuger  got  there  and  found  the  nectar  simply  great, 


ITALIAN  85 

he  just  relaxed  and  polished  off  so  much  Est!  Est!  Est!  that  he 
died  before  reaching  Rome,  and  his  tomb-stone  is  still  in  the 
vicinity  to  prove  it. 

Another  remarkable  white  wine  is  that  of  Orvieto,  which 
also  comes  in  red  and  is  sold  at  every  railroad  station  in  dis- 
tinctive squat  bottles.  Trebbiano  is  a  golden  juice  made,  as  is 
the  remarkable  Chateau  d'Yquem  of  France,  from  grapes 
gone  too  far  raisinward  perhaps  to  be  eaten,  yet  all  the  more 
luscious  when  fermented.  Other  regional  aristocrats  come  from 
the  old  ducal  estates  of  Artimino  and  of  Carmignano.  There 
are  as  well  distinctive  wines  of  Nipozzano  and  Altomena.  This 
finishes  off  the  Tuscany  types  worthy  of  being  bottled  for  sale, 
but  there  are  countless  others  unclassified,  mere  vino  del  paese 
or  table  wines,  on  draught  in  all  wine  shops. 

In  the  foothills  of  the  Alps,  Piedmont  provides  sparkling 
Asti,  the  Italian  champagne,  Bosca,  and  Chaumont.  Turin  turns 
out  a  good  many  pipes  of  wine  both  white  and  red,  but  they're 
not  so  hot.  Yet  the  Grignolinos,  Freisas,  Barberas,  Nebiolos  and 
Barolos,  both  still  and  spumanti  (sparkling)  uphold  the  whole 
Province.  There  are  the  white  wines,  as  well;  Gavi,  Cortese  and 
Castel  Tagliolo,  which  precede  the  entree  at  table  and  go  well 
with  antipasto  and  fish. 

Such  a  paralyzing  variety  of  sound  wines  that  the  best  we 
can  do  without  writing  a  whole  book  on  the  subject  is  to  list  a 
few  noted  vintages  under  their  chief  centers  of  consumption: 

Rome:  Frascati  (white,  served  with  the  entree),  Marino, 
Genzano  and  the  muscatels  of  Albano  and  Montefiascone. 

Naples :  Falerno,  Vesuvio,  Gragnano  and  the  strong  Lacrima 
Christi,  "tears  of  Christ,"  celebrated  for  centuries,  so  the  genuine 
is  hard  to  get.  Lacrima  Christi  is  grown  on  Mount  Vesuvius 
and  goes  up  to  18%  in  alcoholic  content,  but  its  regional  neigh- 
bors, Gallipoli  and  Taranto,  go  even  higher,  up  to  25%.    Naples 


86  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

gets  credit,  too,  for  the  straw-colored  and  strawberry-hued  island 
wines  of  Capri. 

Venice:  reds:  Valpolicella,  Bardolino  and  Cabernet  Pinot; 
whites,  The  Soave  of  Verona  and  Terralba  of  Padua.  Since  the 
war  the  fine  Bolzano  and  Merano  wines  of  Austria  have  been 
added  to  the  wine-producing  territory  dominated  by  Venice. 

Lombardy:  this  Province  produces  reds  exclusively  and  they 
are  generally  astringent  and  of  little  value:  Inferno,  Broni  and 
Grumello  are  among  the  best. 

Sardinia:  The  Malvasia  dessert  wines  of  Garnaccia,  Monai 
and  Caunona  are  golden  and  delicate.  Rosso  del  Campidano  is 
the  best  red  wine  produced  on  the  island. 

Sicily  is  noted  for  its  Marsala,  perfect  both  for  drinking  and 
cooking.  Its  table  wines,  of  which  Corvo  di  Casteldaccia  is 
chiefly  exported,  are  stronger  than  most;  Terre  Forte  originally 
bottled  by  Benedictine  monks  on  the  slopes  of  Mount  Etna  was 
said  to  be  30%  alcohol.  Perhaps  the  fiery  strength  of  these 
vintages  comes  from  the  extinct  volcanoes  on  which  they  are 
grown,  for  surely  those  from  tame  mountain-sides  are  milder. 

Sicily  supplies  a  good  many  dessert  wines,  the  muscatels,  or 
moscatos,  of  Salento  and  Zucca,  as  well  as  the  sanctified  Vino 
Santo.  But  Marsala  is  its  greatest  contribution;  amber-colored 
and  excellent  for  cooking,  in  taste  it  resembles  sherry,  or  sherry 
and  malaga  mixed;  but  since  it  is  reinforced  with  brandy  before 
being  shipped,  it  is  pretty  heady  for  drinking  purposes. 

The  scarcity  and  impurity  of  water  throughout  Italy  is,  of 
course,  responsible  for  the  great  consumption  of  wine.  When 
an  Italian  travels  he  doesn't  think  of  drinking  water,  so  the 
railroad  stations  are  stocked  with  wines  and  the  big  ships 
equipped  with  glass  wine  vats  as  large  as  swimming  pools,  filled 
to  the  brim  with  red  and  white  wine. 

The  little  water  that  is  drunk  in  Italy  is  bottled  at  celebrated 
springs,  such  as  San  Pellegrino  and  Fonte  Bracca.     Beer  has 


ITALIAN  87 

become  increasingly  popular  since  Italy  took  over  great  hunks 
of  Austria,  including  Trieste.  But  unless  imported  from  Munich 
or  Pilsen,  it's  hardly  worth  mentioning. 

As  we  have  seen,  some  Italian  wines  are  sufficiently  strong 
to  serve  as  hard  drinks  in  themselves;  and  since  a  hot  climate 
is  not  inducive  to  schnapps,  we  find  comparatively  little  native 
brandy  drunk.  This  is  called  Grappa,  not  because  of  the  grape 
from  which  it  is  distilled,  as  we  might  guess,  but  after  Monte 
Grappa,  a  mountain  on  the  Austrian  border,  where  Italy  begins 
to  shiver  in  winter. 

Of  aperitifs  the  most  popular  is  Cinzano,  or  Martini  and 
Rossi  vermouth,  from  which  our  own  Martini  cocktail  got  its 
name.  Both  of  these  are  aged  white  Sicilian  wines  doctored  up 
with  bitters  or  herbs,  and  because  they  are  sweeter  than  the 
French  vermouths  they  do  not  serve  so  well  in  exciting  the 
appetite.  Fernet  Branca  is  another  life-saver  of  this  sort,  and 
there  are  other  tonic  mixtures  of  wine  and  quinine,  called 
Quinados. 

In  a  fascist  country  we  expect  regimentation,  but  the  only 
strait-jacketing  of  drinks  is  the  standardization  of  Strega  as 
the  national  liqueur.  It  is  distilled  of  oranges  and  comes  in  two 
colors,  one  sweet  and  the  other  sweeter.  Maraschino  made  in 
Dalmatia  from  the  celebrated  cherries  must  now  be  classed, 
through  conquest,  among  the  Italian  distillations,  although  it 
bears  no  relation  to  them  and  is  properly  a  teutonic  kirschwasser, 
though  much  more  syrupy. 


Boo\  Two 
SPANISH 

g  Quiere  Usted  Comer  Bien? 
(Do  you  wish  to  dine  well?) 


MENUS 


LA  LISTA,  (OR) 

LISTA  DE  LOS  MANJARES  DISPUESTOS 

PARA  COMER 

{Bill  of  fare) 


ALMUERZA 

(Luncheon) 

Huevos  en  Toledo 
(Eggs  Toledo  Style) 


White  Wine 


Bifes  con  Pinhones 
(Little  Beef  Steaks  with  Pine  Nuts) 

Red  Wine 

Alcachof  as  Rellenos  Fritas 
(Fried  Stuffed  Artichokes) 


Codornices  Asados 
(Baked  Quail) 


Turbinas 
(Fried  Bread  in  Sauce) 

91 


Red  Wine 


Malaga 


92  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Queso 
(Cheese) 


Cafe 

ALMUERZA 
{Luncheon) 

Huevos  con  Tomate 
(Eggs  with  Tomato) 


Caldo  del  Cosido 
(Broth  of  the  Olla  Podrida) 


Olla  Podrida 


Caza  Menor  Asada 
(Small  Game  Birds  Baked) 

Esparragos  en  Salsa 
(Asparagus  in  Sauce) 


Frutas 
(Fresh  Fruits  in  Season) 

Pallitos  de  Almendras 
(Almond  Straws) 


Quesos 
(Assorted  Cheese) 


Cafe 
Red  Wines  throughout  the  meal 


SPANISH 

ALMUERZA 

(Luncheon) 

Huevos  con  Alcachofas 
(Eggs  with  Artichokes) 


93 


Arroz  a  Banda 
(Rice  with  Trimmings) 


White  Wine 


White  Wine 


Lengua  de  Vaca  Asada 
(Baked  Smoked  Ox-tongue) 

Apis  en  Salsa 
(Celery  in  Sauce) 


Frutas 
(Fruits) 

Quesos 
(Assorted  Cheeses) 


Red  Wine 


Red  Wine 


Red  Wine 


Cafe 


ALMUERZA 

(Luncheon) 

Coca  de  Sobreasada 
(Sausage  Bread) 

Ensalada  de  Vegetals 
(Vegetable  Salad) 


94  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Fritadas  de  Huevos 
(Scrambled  Eggs) 

Tenera  con  Esparragos 
(Veal  with  Asparagus) 

Crema  de  Vinho  de  Jerez 
(Sherry  Cream) 

Queso 
(Cheese) 


Cafe 
White  Wines  throughout  the  meal 

COMIDA 
(Dinner) 

Entremesas 
(Hors  d'Oeuvres) 

Anchovies,  sardines,  shrimp,  tunny  fish,  snips  of  ham,  radishes, 

olives,  individual  molds  of  jellied  vegetables,  small  portions  of 

green  and  vegetable  salads,  etc. 

Dry  Malaga 

Sopa  Real 
(Royal  Soup) 

Arlequin  de  Merluza 
(Harlequin  of  Codfish) 

Fricase  de  Polios 
(Fricasseed  Chicken) 

Pudim  de  Patatas 
(Potato  Pudding) 

Diamante  (White) 


SPANISH 

Rosbif  Espanolizado 
(Roast  beef  Spanish  Style) 

Alcachofas  Escardiadas 
(Frosted  Artichokes) 


95 


Rioja  (Red) 


Torrijas  de  Almendras 

(Fried  Almond  Paste) 

Cafe 

Anis  del  Mono 

COMIDA 

{Dinner) 

Ostras 

(Oysters) 

Rabanos 

Anis 

(Radishes) 

(Sweet  Fennel) 
Manzanilla 

Sopa  Economica 

(Every-day  Soup) 

Alosa  Asada 

(Roast  of  Shad) 

Marques  de  Riscal  (White) 

Pastillos  Saboyanos 

(White  Petticoat  Pies) 

Favo  Asado 
(Roast  Young  Turkey) 


96  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Esparrago  de  Modo  Judias  Verdes 
(Asparagus  a  la  Mode)                 (Green  Kidney  Beans) 
Alicante  (Red) 

Liebro  Asado 
(Roast  Hare) 

Marques  de  Riscal  (Red) 


Sorbet  de  Rosa 
(Rose  Sherbet) 


Cafe 

Aguar  Diente  de  Chinchon 
(A  fine  Spanish  Brandy) 


COMIDA 
{Dinner) 

Fiambres 

(Cold  Cuts  with  Garnishings) 

Ensalada  de  Pimiento  Verde 

(Green  Pepper  Salad) 


Manzanilla 


Sopa  de  Almendras 
(Almond  Soup) 


Besugo  Excelso 
(Sunfish  Supreme) 


White  Wine 


Jamon  del  Cura  de  Sacre  de  Orense 
(Orense  Curate's  Ham) 


SPANISH 

Zanahorias  a  la  Casera  Patatas  con  Vino 

(Carrots  Housekeeper  Style)  (Potatoes  in  Wine) 

Red  Wine 


97 


Ponche  Espafiol 
(Frozen  Spanish  Punch) 


Cafe 


Anis  del  Mono 


Olivos 
(Olives) 


COMIDA 
(Dinner) 

Melon  Helado 
(Iced  Melon) 

Sopa  de  Pez 
(Fish  Soup) 


Polio  a  la  Espafiol 
(Chicken  Spanish  Style) 


Vaca  a  Estilo  de  Toledon 
(Beef  Toledo  Style) 

Coliflor  Frita 
(Fried  Cauliflower) 


Crema  de  Vino  de  Jerez 
(Sherry  Cream) 


Cafe 


Rabanos 
(Radishes) 


White  Wine 


Red  Wine 


Malaga 


Aguardiente  Pedro  Domeneq  (Brandy) 


SALUD  E  PESETAS! 

(Health  and  money! — A  Spanish  toast) 


The  daily  menu  for  a  Spanish  caballero,  or  gentleman,  might 
as  well  be  put  down  under  drinks,  for  the  Spaniard  rises  late 
and  has  a  pony  of  liqueur  with  his  chocolate,  wine  with  his  lunch, 
manzanilla  (light  sherry)  before  his  late  dinner,  wine  again  with 
that,  a  nightcap  of  brandy  and  so  to  bed. 

Desayuno,  early  breakfast;  chocolate  or  coffee,  usually  with 
anise  liqueur,  of  which  the  French  anisette  is  a  sweeter  imita- 
tion. There  are  a  score  of  brands  of  anise,  each  with  its  in- 
dividual flavor,  but  Anis  del  Mono,  with  the  monkey  grinning 
on  the  label,  is  an  old  standby  likely  to  best  please  the  American 
palate. 

Chocolate  takes  the  lead  of  coffee,  and  it  is  as  thick  as  custard 
because  it  is  mixed  with  cornstarch.  Usually  this  is  accompanied 
by  a  sugar-coated  lady  finger.  The  chocolate  has  to  be  eaten  with 
a  spoon,  for  it  doesn't  run  fast  enough  to  drink.  Ferdinand 
Cortez  brought  the  first  chocolate  beans  from  Mexico,  so  Spain 
drank  it  before  any  other  European  country,  although  she  doesn't 
yet  know  how  to  make  it.  Rolls,  plain  or  topped  with  sugar, 
all  of  them  delicious,  are  preferred  to  the  lady  fingers  at  break- 
fast. The  Spanish,  like  all  other  people  except  Orientals  and 
Americans,  are  master  bread  makers.  Their  loaves  are  the 
whitest  and  finest  knit  of  any  in  the  world,  and  also  the  most 
fancifully  twisted  and  braided. 

The  matter  of  butter  is  optional  in  Spain.  Most  of  it  is 
imported  in  tins  from  Scandinavia,  and  since  little  ice  is  used, 
breakfast  butter  is  often  more  liquid'  than  the  chocolate  itself. 

98 


SPANISH  99 

As  in  Italy  and  France,  this  light  morning  refreshment  is 
partaken  of  unceremoniously  at  home  or  in  the  cafes,  often  stand- 
ing instead  of  sitting  at  a  table.  Its  simplest  Spanish  form  is 
chocolate,  with  a  chalice  of  anise  and  a  strong  cigarette,  for 
tobacco  is  a  government  monopoly,  as  in  Italy  and  France,  so 
the  smokes  are  pretty  poor.  Here  again  Spain  got  first  chance 
at  tobacco,  when  Columbus  himself,  and  not  Sir  Walter  Raleigh, 
brought  it  back  from  America;  but  the  original  tobacco  has 
slipped  as  sadly  as  the  chocolate. 

Almuerzo,  Luncheon:  This  comes  in  countless  courses  and 
is  a  slow,  dragging  affair  with  plenty  of  time  between  for  drink, 
discussion  and  digestion.  Since  Spain,  from  Cadiz  to  Barcelona, 
is  a  country  devoted  to  chicken  and  eggs,  they  are  written  all 
over  the  Lista  de  Platos  (bill  of  fare),  though  usually  chicken  is 
served  only  with  the  dinner  at  night.  One  set  rule  of  the 
Almuerzo  is  that  the  first  dish  served  consists  of  eggs,  either 
plain — al  plato;  poached — estrellados;  boiled — passado  por  agua; 
cooked  with  peas  or  hash;  served  sailor  style;  or  the  classic 
Spanish  omelet,  which  is  varied  by  tortilla  con  esparragos  (as- 
paragus omelet) ;  tongue  omelet,  tortilla  of  brains,  spinach 
omelet,  artichoke,  mushroom,  omelet  of  anything  and  every- 
thing. There  are  more  egg  dishes  in  the  Spanish  cuisine  than 
in  all  the  others  put  together.  When  a  Spaniard  is  parted  from 
his  eggs  his  whole  spirit  sags,  so  on  a  trip  abroad  he  will  first 
learn  the  foreign  word  for  eggy  and  in  an  emergency,  whether 
in  Paris  or  Berlin,  he  will  draw  a  painstaking  picture  of  the  hen- 
fruit  to  explain  to  the  waiter  exactly  what  he  wants,  for  this  is 
his  esperanto  of  lunching. 

The  second  course  is  fish,  cod  being  most  in  favor,  as  it  is  in 
Portugal.  Eels  are  also  esteemed,  and  so  are  squid,  cooked  in 
their  own  ink.  But  in  Sevilla  the  large  gold  fish,  dorado,  which 
is  a  kind  of  carp  and  can  be  seen  glinting  in  the  Guadaliquivir 
River,  reflecting  Columbus'  Tower  of  Gold,  appears  on  the  table 


ioo  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

at  noon,  often  with  Diamante,  a  white  wine  not  unlike  Sauterne. 
The  delicious  dorado  is  served  smothered  in  the  famous  Andalu- 
sian  shrimpy  fish  sauce. 

Third  course,  like  as  not  bifes,  small  fried  beef  steaks,  first 
pounded  thin  as  scallopini  in  Italy,  and  as  popular,  too.  The 
Spanish  conquest  can  be  traced  by  its  trail  of  bifes  left  behind 
to  become  almost  the  national  dishes  of  Mexico,  Central  and 
Southern  America.  Sometimes  the  beef  is  stewed  instead,  with 
a  handful  of  pitted  olives  or  mushrooms.  Here  the  clarete  or 
Rioja,  mellow  red  wine,  gets  into  play,  plain  but  salubrious  vino 
tinto,  red  ink. 

Fourth,  some  national  delicacy,  perhaps  the  classic  smoked 
ox  tongue,  though  usually  game,  for  pheasant,  quail,  pigeon,  and 
reed  birds  are  cheap  and  plentiful  in  every  market.  Mostly  they 
are  cooked  in  wine,  since  nearly  everything  is  vinous  in  Hispana. 
Ordinary  white  wine  is  used  for  cooking  here,  although  Spanish 
sherry  and  Malaga  often  take  its  place  abroad. 

By  now  the  luncheon  pastime  of  wine-bibing  settles  down 
to  serious  drinking  when  a  bottle  of  Marques  de  Riscal  of  a 
good  year  is  brought  out  of  its  cellar  bin,  jacketed  in  ancient  dust. 
It  is  carefully  uncorked  by  the  mozo  (waiter),  the  cork  passed 
around  and  smelled  by  the  guests,  the  glass  held  to  the  light 
for  color,  judicially  sampled  by  most  of  the  five  senses  and 
finally  drunk  off  with  gusto,  for  that  is  the  mainspring  of 
gustatory  pleasure  in  Spain.  Where  the  national  thirst  is  said 
to  be  "inestinguible" — quenchless.  The  larder  may  be  excellent, 
but  the  cellar  must  be  superb. 

Though  Spain  is  known  abroad  chiefly  for  its  sherry,  this  is 
scarcely  drunk  at  all  at  home.  It  is  doctored  up  for  foreign  con- 
sumption and  drunk  at  its  best  in  England,  as  is  Portuguese 
port.  The  Spaniard  himself  prefers  a  light  unfortified  white 
sherry.    This  is  the  manzanilla  of  Sanlucar  and  is  drunk  quite 


SPANISH  101 

young,  after  two  or  three  years  in  the  bottle;  but  it  has  a  taste 
so  peculiar  that  nobody  but  dyed-in-the-wool  Andalusians  really 
relish  it.  In  Sevilla  an  afternoon  hour  is  set  aside  for  its  drink- 
ing, which  we  shall  come  to  presently,  after  finishing  with  the 
table  wines  served  at  both  lunch  and  dinner. 

Cadiz  is  the  center  for  sherry,  and  Malaga  of  course  for  the 
wines  of  that  name;  but  Alicante  is  the  general  wine-center, 
much  as  Bordeaux  is  in  France,  or  Mayence  in  Germany,  for 
through  the  port  of  Alicante  a  number  of  types  are  exported 
from  the  provinces  of  Aragon,  Catalonia  and  Valencia.  The 
wines  drunk  with  Spanish  meals  usually  are  those  produced 
nearest  at  hand,  and  mostly  they  go  by  the  name  of  the  province 
or  section,  such  as  Riota,  in  which  they  are  produced,  so  a  short 
summary  of  these  will  give  the  entire  viniculture  of  the  country: 

Alicante:  Both  red  and  white  wines,  produced  from  a  vine 
locally  called  "tintilla,"  which  furnishes  most  of  the  juice 
throughout  Spain  and  gives  rise  to  the  generic  name  of  tinto 
for  the  national  wine.  The  white  wine  of  this  region  is  not 
notable.  Both  white  and  red  are  perishable,  but  the  red  is 
so  full  in  flavor  and  rich  in  color  that  formerly  it  was  forti- 
fied with  spirits  and  shipped  as  imitation  port  wine. 

Andalusia:  Rota,  best  drunk  young.  This  is  a  vino  tinto,  red 
wine,  from  the  tintilla  vine  of  Alicante.  The  English  corrupt 
tinto  to  tent,  of  which  they  import  a  good  deal,  for  it  is  the 
outstanding  red  wine  of  this  province. 

White  wines  of  Moguro,  Niebla,  Rancio  and  Seville. 

Sherry  at  Zeres  de  la  Frontera,  shipped  as  "oloroso," 
"amoroso,"  "vino  de  pasto"  and  "amontillados"  of  varying 
ages  and  dryness. 

Aragon:  Full  bodied,  rich  in  color,  sunny  of  flavor.  Carinena 
is  light  red  and  exquisite. 


102  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Basque :  The  staunch  wine  of  the  Basques  is  produced  in  great 
quantity  and  mostly  drunk  at  home.  (See  note  on  the 
Basque  kitchen.) 

Catalan :  Beautiful  wines,  shipped  to  South  America  and  known 
in  England  as  Catalan  or  Spanish  Port.  As  popular  as  Ali- 
cante in  the  Spanish  wine-shops,  of  which  there  is  a  chain 
called  Bodegas  in  London. 

Castile:  La  Mancha  is  a  classic  brand,  light  in  color  and  won- 
derful in  bouquet.  The  Muscatel  of  Juencaral  is  exceptional. 
Grand  wines  also  of  the  Tagus,  from  Arganda  del  Rey, 
North  of  Madrid,  to  Talavera,  de  la  Reyna. 

Ciudad  Real :  Val  del  Penas,  sweet  white  wines  and  reds  strong 
in  alcohol,  popular  in  the  nearby  capital,  Madrid. 

Cordoba:  Montilla  wines,  and  Manzanilla,  which  is  Amontil- 
lado sherry  when  aged. 

Galicia :  The  excellent  Rivadavia  and  Tuy. 

Granada:  Marvellous  Malagas,  heavy  sweet  dessert  wines  that 
keep  a  century  and  grow  drier  with  age.  Malagas  are  also 
tinctured  with  bitters,  chiefly  quinine,  and  bottled  under  the 
name  of  Quinados,  which  make  splendid  aperitifs. 

There  are  three  grape  crops  a  year  at  Malaga;  the  first 
is  made  into  raisins,  the  second  into  a  dry  white  wine  con- 
sumed locally,  and  the  third  into  the  several  types  to  which 
we  are  accustomed,  varying  from  common  muscatel  to  the 
extraordinary  Tears  of  Christ  made  from  the  first  drippings 
of  the  grape. 

The  mellow  Paj  arete  of  Ronda  is  another  celebrity  in  the 
Malaga  section. 

Mallorca:  This  now  touristy  isle  was  formerly  famed  for  its 
excellent  malvasias. 


SPANISH  103 

Minorca :  Alba  Flora,  white  and  light,  celebrated  for  its  bouquet. 
Alcyor,  dark  red  and  distinguished,  but  never  exported 
because,  like  some  people,  it  can't  stand  a  sea  voyage. 

Murcia:  Ordinary  rough  reds,  of  which  Cartagena  is  the  best. 

Navarra :  Roncesvalles,  and  others  little  known  abroad,  because 
of  the  great  home  demand. 

Rioja:  Four  types,  Alta  Rioja,  Baja  Rioja,  Alauesa  and  the 
widely  known  Haro. 

Tarragone:  Tasty  ruby-red  Prioratos. 

Valencia :  Red  dry  wines,  chiefly  distilled  into  a  brandy,  sweeter 
than  the  French. 

Now,  having  partaken  of  sufficient  wine,  the  luncheon  is 
finished  with  postres  (dessert)  the  standard  one  being  custard 
(eggs  again),  for  after  alcohol  sweets  are  not  relished.  Cheese 
and  fruit  are  more  generally  served,  the  cheese  nothing  to  brag 
about,  but  the  native  fruits  good,  especially  Seville  oranges,  which 
the  English  import  for  their  marmalade.  Tangerines,  wonder- 
ful nectarines,  Valencian  melons,  Malaga  raisins,  grapes,  Jordan 
almonds,  preserved  watermelon  rind. 

Each  district  in  Spain  has  its  cheese  specialty,  made  from 
the  milk  of  cows,  goats,  or  sheep.  There  is  the  smoky  product 
of  San  Simon;  the  fresh,  curdy,  La  Montana  cheese;  the  tetilla, 
soft  and  buttery,  of  Galicia;  Cabrales,  a  sharp,  fermented  cheese; 
Mancha  cheese,  wrapped  in  straw  and  soaked  in  oil,  too  rich  to 
be  eaten  without  wine;  Burgos  cream  cheese,  and  a  host  of  less 
renowned  varieties. 

The  entire  cheese  is  brought  to  the  table,  to  be  cut  according 
to  taste,  and  is  an  invariable  course  at  the  mid-day  meal.  Cheese 
is  never  served  at  a  formal  Spanish  dinner. 

The  coffee  is  black  and  bitter,  but  the  assortment  of  liqueurs 


104  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

quite  good,  with  anise  always  in  the  ascendant.  Anise  to  the 
Spaniard  is  much  the  same  as  kummel  to  the  German  or 
absinthe  to  the  French.  All  three  of  these  ardent  infusions  bear 
a  resemblance  in  taste. 

Soup  is  never  served  at  luncheon,  except  when  it  comprises 
the  whole  meal,  as  does  olla  podrida,  the  national  cocida,  called 
either  soup  or  stew,  but  in  any  case  a  full  meal  (see  recipe). 
Though  nearly  everything  goes  into  this  olla,  the  chick  peas  or 
garbonzas  are  its  characteristic  feature.  The  dish  is  sometimes 
called  just  garbonzas,  as  we  say  "beans"  for  food.  Next  to 
chicken  and  eggs,  Spain  is  distinguished  for  its  chick  peas  and 
rice  appetite,  and  this  Spanish  influence  has  left  its  impress  on 
conquered  Spanish  American  countries,  where  many  national 
dishes  consist  of  either  chick  peas  or  chicken. 

Between  lunch  and  dinner,  about  the  time  a  Londoner  takes 
his  tea  (which  often  as  not  consists  of  whiskey  and  soda)  the 
Sevillano  drinks  his  manzanilla.  This  young  sherry  is  known 
to  us  only  as  the  pickle  in  which  the  olives  of  Seville  are  bottled. 
There  is  a  natural  affinity  between  olives  and  manzanilla,  for 
both  are  acquired  tastes  and  share  a  similar  tang. 

After  the  bull  fight  all  of  masculine  Seville  pours  into  the 
bodegas.  In  the  expensive  ones  the  white  sherry  is  served  in  a 
nickeled  tray  with  compartments  holding  six  tiny  glasses  for  one 
drinker.  Another  boxed  tray  is  served  with  it,  loaded  with  ap- 
petizers, each  in  its  separate  compartment  and  sometimes  there 
are  twelve  of  these;  an  anchovy  curled  around  a  caper  or  a 
pickled  nasturtium  seed,  a  tiny  pickled  oyster,  a  dab  of  white 
bait,  ingenious  pickles,  boiled  shrimp,  a  shaving  of  raw  ham, 
empanadillas,  little  meat  pies,  and  special  olives  unknown  out- 
side Andalusia.    Elaborate,  intricate  taste-teasers,  no  two  alike. 

Those  who  can't  afford  this  Sevillian  luxury  fill  the  humbler 
wine  shops,  where  a  tumbler  of  tinto  or  Rioja  wine  costs  just 
two  cents.    But  mostly,  after  a  bull  fight,  more  fiery  drinks  are 


r 


SPANISH  105 

called  for — Matta  Rattas,  for  example,  a  mighty  concoction  of 
anise  from  which  Hemingway  could  just  as  well  have  got  his 
title  "Death  in  the  Afternoon,"  although  the  name  loosely  trans- 
lates "kills  rats." 

Dinner  is  at  nine  o'clock,  and  is  just  an  amplification  of 
lunch,  with  thick  soup  first,  made  of  oysters,  birds  or  almonds, 
though  sometimes  merely  panada,  boiled  bread.  Then  fish  or 
omelet;  next  pheasant,  squab,  hare,  or  at  least  chicken,  maybe 
all  four.  There  are  sure  to  be  artichokes  or  asparagus,  but  neither 
salad  nor  butter.  The  dessert  is  an  elaborate  ice,  grapes,  or  gal- 
letas,  sweet  biscuits  that  go  well  with  a  final  glass  or  two  of 
dessert  wine. 

In  this  male  country  the  men  usually  take  after-dinner  cofifee 
and  liqueurs  at  a  cafe,  with  a  game  of  dominoes  and  a  chalice 
of  Pedro  Domencq  brandy,  while  the  women  remain  patiently 
at  home. 


SOUPS  AND  STEWS 

(Sopas  y  Cocidos) 


ROYAL  SOUP 
(Sopa  Real) 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  i  quart  clear  vegetable  soup 

l/2  lemon 

Mash  the  egg  yolks  and  mince  the  whites.  Add  the  soup. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  drop  in  small  bits  of  lemon  and  serve. 

The  broth  of  the  cocido  (see  recipe)  plays  the  same  part  in 
Spanish  soup-making  as  does  consomme  in  the  French  cuisine, 
or  the  stock  pot  in  the  English  kitchen.  In  every  Spanish  house- 
hold the  cocido  is  cooked  every  day,  either  an  elaborate  one  to 
be  served  to  the  family  or  a  simple  one  for  the  servants'  table; 
so  the  clear  vegetable  soup,  rich  and  highly  seasoned,  as  required 
in  this  recipe,  is  always  at  hand. 

Tinned  vegetable  soup,  fortified  with  a  teaspoon  of  beef 
extract  and  additional  seasoning  to  taste,  strained,  cleared  with 
white  of  egg  and  strained  through  a  cloth,  is  a  practical  substi- 
tute. 

SEED  BROTH 

(Caldo  Semilla) 

4  tablespoons  wheat  4  tablespoons  chick  peas 

4  tablespoons  corn  4  tablespoons  dry  kidney  beans 

4  tablespoons  barley  3  quarts  cold  water 

Salt  or  sugar 

Roast  the  grains  and  beans  in  the  oven  like  coffee  beans  and 
pound  fine  in  a  mortar  or  run  through  the  coffee  mill.    Put  into 

106 


SPANISH  107 

3  quarts  of  cold  water  and  simmer  until  only  1  quart  of  liquid 
is  left.  Strain  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt  or 
sugar  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

The  main  distinction  between  Spanish  cooking  in  the  mother 
country  and  that  of  her  colonial  descendants  is  a  sparing  use 
of  hot  pepper.  This  soup,  for  instance,  has  no  pepper  ingredient. 
Fresh,  sweet,  red  and  green  pimentos  are  used  in  appetizing 
profusion  during  their  season,  while  strings  of  them,  drying  for 
winter  use,  hang  from  eaves  and  rafters;  but  there  is  not  a 
really  hot  or  peppery  recipe  in  the  cuisine  of  Spain,  with  the 
exception  of  red-peppered  hard  sausages  such  as  chorizo. 

COLD  MILK  SOUP      J 
(Sop  a  de  Lee  he  Frio) 

3  pints  whole  milk  Juice  1  lemon 

3  egg  whites  Grated  rind  of  Y2  lemon 

Powdered  sugar 

Bring  milk  to  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  a 
colorful,  decorative  serving  bowl,  cool,  and  place  in  refrigerator. 
Whip  egg  whites  with  lemon  juice  and  grated  lemon  rind, 
adding  enough  sugar  to  make  a  light  snowy  cream.  Spread  this 
thinly  and  evenly  over  the  cold  cooked  milk  and  leave  in  re- 
frigerator l/2  hour  before  serving 

For  delicate  supping  a  plain  custard  suits  every  Latin  palate. 
So  this  custardy  soup,  being  but  slightly  sweetened,  makes  an 
appetizing  introduction  to  a  Spanish  supper,  or,  as  so  many 
other  national  dishes,  it  is  a  whole  meal  in  itself.  Fresh  cow's 
milk  is  scarce  in  southern  Spain,  so  this  soup  would  more  often 
than  not  be  made  of  goat's  milk,  and  all  the  richer  for  that. 


io8  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

FROGS  LEG  SOUP 

(Caldo  de  Ronas) 

i  fresh  pear  3  sprigs  parsley 

Y2  head  lettuce  18  frogs  legs 

1  turnip  Salt 

1  quart  tepid  water 

Peel,  core  and  slice  the  pear.     Chop  lettuce,   turnip   and 

parsley.    Skin  and  clean  frogs  legs,  salt  and  add  tepid  water  with 

first  ingredients.    Bring  to  a  boil  and  skim  well.     Cook  for  45 

minutes. 

FISH  SOUP 

(Sopa  de  Fez) 

3  onions  1  cup  cooking  wine 

3  teaspoons  olive  oil  il/2  pounds  fresh  fish 

3  tablespoons  tomato  paste           Salt 

1  herb  bouquet  3  peppercorns,  crushed 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  Nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  flour  4  small  cucumber  pickles 

3  pints  water  Small  squares  fried  bread 

Brown  onions  in  the  oil,  add  the  tomato  paste,  herb  bouquet 
and  parsley  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Add  the  water  and  wine  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Let  simmer  l/2  hour  and  add  the  fish.  Cook 
30  minutes  longer  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 
Slice  the  pickles  in  rings  and  place  them  with  fried  bread  in  a 
tureen.  Pour  over  them  the  strained  fish  broth  and  serve  very 
hot. 

The  herb  bouquet  of  Spain  varies  with  the  caprice  of  the 
cook.  A  soup  bouquet  consists  of  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  celery, 
another  of  thyme,  or  sage,  tarragon,  marjoram,  or  basil;  some 
chives  or  a  scallion;  and,  more  often  than  not,  a  strip  of  sweet 
or  semi-hot  pepper.  Every  housewife  keeps  on  hand  a  catholic 
variety  of  garden  herbs  hanging  from  the  rafters  of  her  kitchen, 


SPANISH  109 

keeping  company  with  the  strings  of  bright  peppers,  and  strings 

of  onions  and  garlic  held  together  by  braiding  their  dried  stems. 

Her  roof  will  be  decorated  also  during  the  summer  months 

with  pumpkins,  figs  and  almonds  drying  under  the  sun's  hot 

FIFTEEN-MINUTE  SOUP 
(So pa  al  Cuarto  de  Hora) 

24  almonds  Vi  cup  minced  ham 

5  cups  beef  broth  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 

1  cup  almond  water  Salt 

l/2  cup  raw  white  fish  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  cup  cooked  lobster  1  teaspoon  saffron 

l/i  cup  cooked  peas  %  cup  rice 
Sprigs  of  parsley 

Blanch  almonds  and  add  to  the  meat  broth  1  cup  of  water 
in  which  they  were  blanched.  Add  the  fish  and  lobster,  each 
cut  in  small  pieces,  the  peas,  ham,  eggs,  the  salt,  pepper  and 
saffron.  Grind  almonds  and  add.  Put  in  the  rice  as  soon  as  the 
broth  boils  and  cook  25  minutes.  Serve  with  a  sprig  of  parsley 
in  each  plate.    This  makes  4  portions. 

This  quick  quarter-hour  soup  is  a  favorite  restaurant  dish 
in  Seville,  where  many  specialties  are  cooked  to  order  and  hence 
the  meal  is  tediously  slow.  Dining  in  Spanish  restaurants  is 
apt  to  be  disappointing,  because  of  the  numerous  courses  and 
long  intervals  between.  There  is  a  tendency,  too,  to  ape  French 
cooking,  so  this  great  cuisine  hasn't  the  reputation  that  it  de- 
serves. It  is  found  at  its  best,  of  course,  in  home  kitchens  and 
at  family  dinners  presided  over  by  the  lady  of  the  house  who, 
indeed,  seldom  dines  in  restaurants,  and  this  may  be  another 
reason  why  the  commercial  meals  of  the  country  are  found  want- 
ing, while  those  served  in  the  home  are  superb. 


no  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

ECONOMICAL,  OR  POOR  MAN'S  SOUP 
(Sopa  Economicd) 

l/2  pound  veal  i  marrow  bone 

3  carrots  i  herb  bouquet 

i  parsnip  i  sprig  parsley 

i  onion  i  tablespoon  salt 

i  ham  bone  4  peppercorns 

Cut  veal  in  small  pieces,  slice  the  carrots,  parsnip  and  onion. 
Put  all  in  a  deep  kettle,  add  bones,  the  herb  bouquet,  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  Bring  slowly 
to  a  boil  and  simmer  for  3  hours. 

SOUP  WITH  NOODLES 

{Sopa  de  Pastas) 

The  Spanish  are  partial  to  simple  strained  broths  with  various 
paste  compositions  in  them.  These  pastes  were  formerly  made 
in  the  home,  but  are  now  commercially  prepared.  They  in- 
clude macaroni,  spaghetti,  vermicelli,  alphabet  and  other  small 
fancy  shapes.  The  soup  is  brought  to  boiling  point  before  the 
pastas  are  dropped  in,  and  it  is  not  touched  during  the  10  to  15 
minutes  necessary  for  the  paste  to  cook. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 
(Potaje) 

1  pint  fresh  kidney  beans  1  onion,  minced 

5  pints  boiling  water  1  small  stick  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  5  peppercorns,  crushed 
2  cloves  garlic,  minced  %  bay  leaf 

2  tomatoes,  chopped  Triangles  of  fried  bread 

1  lemon,  sliced 

Cover  the  beans  with  the  boiling  water,  and  bring  to  a  slow 
boil.    Heat  oil  in  a  saucepan,  and  fry  garlic  until  light  brown. 


SPANISH  in 

Add  the  tomatoes,  and  when  all  is  bubbling  add  to  the  simmer- 
ing beans;  then  add  onion,  cinnamon,  peppercorns,  and  bay  leaf* 
Cook  slowly  over  a  low  fire  2  hours.  Strain  through  colander, 
season  with  salt,  and  serve  with  triangles  of  fried  bread  and 
lemon  slices. 

Olive  oil  and  garlic  are  requisites  for  many  Spanish  dishes, 
and  many  are  the  ways  of  handling  them.  If  the  cook  wishes  to 
diminish  the  taste  of  the  oil  she  heats  it  until  it  smokes,  then 
cools  it1>lightly  before  proceeding  with  the  cooking.  The  remain- 
ing flavor  is  deliciously  nutty,  with  all  the  acrid  quality  of  the 
olives  removed. 

The  prejudice  which  has  grown  up  against  the  use  of  garlic 

may  be  attributed  to  the  careless  cooks  who  leave  it  half -raw  in 

the  finished  food.    Well-cooked  garlic  has  none  of  the  odor  of 

the  fresh  cloves,  or  "teeth,"  as  the  Spanish  quaintly  call  them. 

If  you  wish  its  presence  to  be  unsuspected,  cut  the  garlic  in  half 

instead  of  mincing  it,  and  remove  the  halves  after  they  have 

served  their  purpose  of  imparting  a  delicate  almondy  flavor  to 

the  dish. 

GARLIC  SOUP 

(So  pa  de  A  jo) 

%  cup  olive  oil  3  pints  boiling  water 

6  garlic  cloves,  minced  3  slices  bread 

4  garlic  cloves,  crushed  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 

Slowly  fry  in  oil  the  minced  and  crushed  garlic  cloves  until 
golden  brown,  but  not  burned.  Add  a  little  water  and  cook 
until  tender.  Mash,  and  add  boiling  water,  stirring  well.  Season 
to  taste.  Cook  10  minutes.  Heat  oil  in  frying  pan  until  it 
smokes.  Cool  a  little  and  fry  bread.  Place  bread  in  the  bottom 
of  a  hot  soup  tureen.  Pour  soup  over  the  bread  and  put  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top.    Serve  very  hot. 

This  soup  is  as  popular  in  Castile  as  onion  soup  is  in  Paris. 


ii2  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SNOW  SOUP 

(Sopa  de  Nieve) 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  pint  hot  milk 

i  quart  boiling  water  2  eggs 

1  slice  toast  Salt 

3  large  potatoes,  peeled  Pepper 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  the  boiling  water,  the 
toast  cut  fine  and  potatoes.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  nearly 
done,  then  add  the  hot  milk.  Continue  cooking  until  the  potatoes 
are  tender,  then  press  the  contents  of  the  sauce  pan  through  a 
colander  and  return  to  the  pan.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  remove  from 
fire.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  with  a  little  cold  water  and  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Whip  the  whites  until  stiflf,  but  not  dry,  and  add 
them  little  by  little,  to  the  boiling  hot  soup,  continuing  to  beat. 
Season  to  taste  and  serve. 

THICK  SOUP  OF  LIVER 

(Chanfaina) 

1  calf's  liver  Salt,  whole  black  peppers 

1  pig's  liver  Cloves,  cinnamon,  caraway 

Olive  oil  Saffron 

1  large  onion,  minced  Spearmint  sprigs 

1  green  pepper,  minced  Parsley 

l/2  cup  bread  crumbs,  toasted 

Boil  livers  in  enough  salted  water  to  serve  for  finished  soup. 
When  tender,  dice  them  and  save  the  liquor.  Put  enough  olive 
oil  in  an  earthenware  soup  pot  to  brown  the  diced  liver  with 
onion,  pepper  and  all  seasonings,  adding  the  liver  liquor  gradu- 
ally. When  done  it  will  be  as  thick  as  porridge.  Sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

This  is  only  one  of  half  a  dozen  traditional  thick  soups, 
celebrated  in  Andalusian  song  and  story.    It  is  so  thick  that  it 


SPANISH  113 

serves  as  a  whole  meal.  The  original  version  of  this  poor  man's 
potage  calls  for  lights  and  the  "innards"  of  any  animal,  as  well 
as  pig's  liver,  according  to  Latin  taste  for  all  sorts  of  giblets  that 
we  disdain. 

When  made  with  goose-giblets  and  rice  it  is  called  gondingo. 

ALMOND  SOUP 

(Sopa  de  Almendras) 

8  ounces  almonds,  blanched  1  clove 

s     and  peeled  1  dash  grated  nutmeg 

1  pint  rich  chicken  broth  1  bit  mace 

1  pint  rich  veal  broth  1  sprig  thyme 

1  tablespoon  minced  ham  Salt  (sparingly) 

Grind  6  ounces  almonds  to  paste,  adding  a  few  drops  cold 
water  to  prevent  oiling.  Shred  remaining  almonds.  Mix  broths, 
add  remaining  ingredients,  and  simmer  l/2  hour;  strain,  add 
ground  almonds  and  let  boil  up,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon 
10-15  minutes  until  well  mixed.  Add  shredded  almonds  and 
serve.  This  soup  is  greatly  improved  by  the  addition  of  l/2  cup 
scalded  cream  at  the  moment  of  serving. 

CHESTNUT  PUREE 

{Sopa  de  Castahas) 

1  pound  chestnuts  2  quarts  water 

1  celery  stalk  l/2  cup  boiling  milk 

Y2  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  butter 

3  peppercorns,  crushed  Croutons 

Cut  an  X  on  the  shell  of  each  chestnut  and  put  into  boiling 
water  for  a  few  minutes.  Peel  and  skin,  cut  in  two,  and  place 
in  a  casserole  with  the  celery,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cover  with  2 
quarts  of  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender;  then  pass  all 
through  a  colander.  Return  to  the  casserole,  and  clear  with  the 
boiling  milk.  Add  the  butter  and  pour  into  a  soup  tureen,  over 
croutons. 


ii4  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

RAGOUT 
(Guisado) 

Any  game  soup  cooked  with  onions,  tomatoes  and  garlic 
first  browned  in  a  sauce  pan. 

RICE  PAP 

{Papilla  de  Arroz) 

Made  of  rice-cream,  and  when  chicken  is  added,  called 
papilla  de  arroz  con  polio. 

PIQUANT  SOUP 
(Sopa  Picante) 

A  vegetable  soup  of  mixed  sweet  peppers  and  spices,  originat- 
ing in  the  West  Indies  and  brought  to  Spain  by  early  explorers. 

PEPPERY  SOUP 
(Sopa  Pimentado) 

Another  importation  from  the  Caribbean,  mandioca  root 
boiled  with  pimentos  and  lemon  juice. 

BOILED  DINNER 
(Puchero) 

Puchero,  like  the  olio,  or  olla,  is  simply  the  name  of  the 
glazed  earthenware  pot  in  which  the  stew  is  cooked.  Its  main 
ingredient  and  adornment  is  a  calf's  head,  whole,  which  is 
served  in  the  center  of  the  platter  with  the  boiled  dinner  heaped 
around  it  and  the  broth  in  a  separate  tureen.  Puchero  has  be- 
come the  national  dish  of  Argentina  and  is  served  at  its  best 
in  the  Petit  Salon  of  Buenos  Aires. 

MISCELLANEOUS  POTAGES 

Southern  Spain  is  celebrated  for  its  beef  broths,  often  senti- 
mentalized by  the  use  of  meal  from  bulls  that  have  put  up  losing 
fights  in  local  arenas.    Beef  tea,  aromatic  with  herbs  and  even 


SPANISH  115 

spiced  with  nasturtium  leaves  and  seeds.  Batatulla,  potatoes  and 
beef  broth.  Giblet  broths  and  potages  beyond  number,  on  the 
order  of  chanfaina  (see  recipe)  and  gondingo  (see  note  to  chan- 
faina). 

There  are  thick  soups  of  Spanish  partridge,  quail  and  song- 
birds; vegetable  purees  aplenty,  though  chiefly  individualized  in 
celery,  or  turnip,  chick  peas  or  onion.  The  Andalusian  sausage 
broth,  caldo  con  chorizos,  is  made  with  snappy  crimson  sausages 
sometimes  hotter  than  the  brasero,  a  charcoal  heating  pan  often 
set  under  the  dining  table,  draped  with  petticoats  beneath  which 
chilly  feet  are  thrust. 

The  pungent  garlic  soup  of  Andalusia,  sweet  and  nutty  with 
almonds,  olive  oil  and  thin  slices  of  finely-knit  white  bread,  salted 
and  peppered.  Boronia,  corn  soup.  Vermicelli  boiled  in  bull- 
fought  beef  broth,  the  paste  borrowed  from  Italy;  and  many 
meaty  stews  served  ensopada,  with  the  pot  liquor,  in  the  particu- 
lar style  of  every  province  and  usually  in  deep,  colorfully 
decorated  plates. 

But  the  marrowy  chick  pea  or  garbonza  soup  from  the  classic 
olla  pudrida  is  the  standard  by  which  to  judge  all  others. 

SPANISH  STEW 
(Olla  Pudrida  or  Cocido  Espahol) 

3  pints  chick  peas  Thick  flour  paste 

54  pound  each:  salt  beef,  bacon,  1  pint  fresh  lima  beans 

salt  pork  and  salty  sausage  1  small  cabbage 

1  large  chicken,  jointed  6  small  beets 

3  small  birds  (or  1  pigeon)  6  small  carrots 

1  pig's  tail,  ear  or  snout  Y2  pound  pork  sausage,  sliced 

Salt  %  pound    blood    sausage,   sliced 

1  onion  !/4  pound  cooked  veal 

1  clove  %  pound  ham,  cooked 

2  cloves  garlic  2  eggs 

6  peppercorns  Bread  crumbs 

12  small  potatoes,  peeled 


n6  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Soak  garbanzos  (chick  peas),  salt  beef,  bacon,  salt  pork  and 
salty  sausage  over  night.  Drain  the  meat  and  put  it  into  a  deep 
kettle  with  chicken  and,  if  possible,  3  small  birds,  or  a  pigeon, 
certainly  a  pig's  tail,  ear  or  snout.  Cover  deep  with  cold  water, 
put  over  the  fire  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Then  lower  the 
flame  and  cook  slowly.  Parboil  garbanzos,  drain,  and  add  them 
to  the  stewpot  gradually,  taking  care  that  the  boiling  does  not 
cease  or  the  peas  will  harden.  Salt  to  taste  and  skim.  Add  an 
onion,  pierced  with  a  clove;  add  garlic  and  peppercorns,  cover 
and  seal  ketde  lid  with  flour  paste.  Simmer  without  stirring  for 
5  hours.  The  pot  can  be  shaken  occasionally,  but  the  skin  of 
the  peas  must  not  be  broken  or  they  will  not  color  well  and 
besides,  the  stew  will  become  mushy. 

At  the  end  of  the  fourth  hour,  place  in  another  large  kettle 
with  plenty  of  water,  the  fresh  lima  beans,  cabbage,  beets,  carrots, 
sliced  pork  sausage,  blood  sausage,  and  meat  balls  made  of 
minced  cooked  veal,  minced  ham,  eggs,  and  enough  sifted  bread 
crumbs  to  hold  them  in  shape.  Twenty  minutes  later,  remove 
some  of  the  broth  from  the  kettle  and  cook  potatoes  in  it. 

Just  before  serving  the  cocido,  season  with  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon and  another  of  saffron  to  give  the  cocido  the  rich  color 
that  stamps  it  perfect  to  the  Spanish  eye.  Pile  the  garbanzos, 
well-drained,  in  the  center  of  a  large  deep  platter,  circle  with 
the  potatoes,  and  place  the  meats  around  them.  In  another  plate 
serve  the  other  vegetables.  Serve  both  dishes  at  the  same  time 
with  the  following  sauce: 

SAUCE  FOR  THE  COCIDO 

(Salsa  para  el  Cocido) 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  Salt 

1  sweet  pepper,  minced  1  large  potato,  cooked 

1  teaspoon  saffron  1  tablespoon  parsley,  chopped 

3  tomatoes,  cooked  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

l/4  cup  cocido  broth 


SPANISH  117 

Mix  garlic,  pepper  and  saffron  in  a  bowl.  Add  strained 
pulp  of  tomatoes  and  the  potato.  Mash  all  together  thoroughly. 
Add  parsley,  vinegar  and  cocido  broth.  Salt  to  taste  and  serve 
hot.    In  another  bowl  serve  a  cold  pepper  sauce. 

Strain  the  broth  in  the  two  cooking  pots  and  use  as  soup 
course. 

A  salad  and  an  iced  melon,  or  a  compote  of  fruit,  finishes 
this  meal  most  satisfactorily. 

The  cocido,  literally  a  stew  cooked  in  an  olla,  a  round 
earthen  pot  with  a  small  opening  at  the  top,  resembling  the  bean 
pot  of  Boston,  is  the  classic  dish  of  the  country  and  a  four- 
course  dinner  in  itself.  There  are  49  Provinces  in  Spain,  and 
regionalism  is  so  strong  it  is  said  there  are  49  national  cocidos. 
It  is  famous  throughout  Castile  for  its  excellence,  and  especially 
in  Madrid,  where  it  holds  its  own  in  spite  of  the  keen  competi- 
tion of  international  dishes  so  lavishly  offered  by  the  smart  hotels 
and  restaurants  in  that  sophisticated  city. 

A  noted  chef  of  Madrid,  who  proudly  brings  this  dish  to  a 
rare  perfection,  and  furnishes  this  recipe,  says  that  there  is  no 
cut-and-dried  rule  for  what  goes  into  the  olla.  That  detail  is 
more  or  less  left  to  the  resources  of  the  kitchen  larder  and  the 
genius  of  the  cook.  But  the  process  of  cooking,  the  wily  whee- 
dling of  the  fire,  is  a  delicate  operation  and  on  it  depends  the 
success  or  failure  of  the  cocido. 

It  is  not  only  a  dish  of  delicious  savor,  but  it  is  really  most 
economical;  its  rich  broth  furnishes  the  basis  of  various  soups 
and  sauces  for  other  meals,  and  the  selection  of  its  ingredients 
allows  a  variation  to  fit  the  changing  seasons  and  locality  of 
production. 

Cervantes'  Don  Quixote  says  of  the  olla  grande,  the  "grand 
dish"  to  which  game  birds  are  added,  "it  is  eaten  only  by  canons 
and  bishops." 


n8  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

"Olla  pudrida"  translates  literally  "putrid  pot,"  but  this  is 
only  a  quirk  of  Spanish  humor  and  is  really  an  affectionate  pet 
name  for  the  national  dish.  The  Germans,  however,  add  insult 
to  the  injurious  name  by  transferring  it  into  their  language  as 
stinktopf,  stink-pot.  The  dish  indeed  is  as  "high"  as  an  English- 
man's grouse,  which  is  ready  for  the  grill  when  the  leg-bones 
have  turned  powdery  and  green  and  the  bird  finally  drops  off 
them.  The  reason  for  suspecting  the  olla  at  all  is  merely  that 
the  earthenware  pot  from  which  its  name  derives,  is  never 
entirely  emptied  and  washed  out  for  a  fresh  beginning.  It  is  like 
the  old-fashioned  soup-pot,  sitting  unchanged  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  ready  to  receive  any  enriching  tidbit  to  revivify  the 
brew.  Furthermore,  Spanish  bacon,  one  of  the  olla's  main  in- 
gredients, is  usually  greasy  and  rancid  and  since  its  strong  savor 
persists  in  the  pot,  in  some  out-of-the-way  posadas,  where  re- 
freshment is  had  for  man  and  beast,  this  national  cocido  does 
live  up  to  its  name. 

An  olla  is  also  the  porous  clay  water-pot,  painted  with  fruits 
and  flowers,  which  stands  on  every  Spanish  table,  cooling  the 
drinking  water  by  evaporation.  Where  ice  is  scarce  there  is 
no  better  way  to  keep  water  sweet  and  potable. 

A  STEW  WITH  WHEAT 
{Olla  con   Trigo) 

i  cup  wheat  2  garlic  cloves,  minced 

1  pig's  ear  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  pig's  hocks  2  tomatoes,  sliced 
1  pint  chick  peas,  soaked  Salt 

4  potatoes  54  teaspoon  saffron 

Soak  wheat  in  cold  water  2  hours,  put  into  a  strong  bag 
and  pound  it  to  remove  husks;  wash  the  wheat  free  of  husks, 
and  cook  in  unsalted  water  until  tender.  Meanwhile,  put  the 
pig's  ear  and  hocks  into  a  deep  pot,  cover  well  with  water  and 


SPANISH  119 


bring  to  a  boil.  Add  the  chick  peas  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Cook 
4  hours.  Peel  potatoes  and  add.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  done. 
Fry  garlic  in  oil  until  it  begins  to  brown;  add  tomatoes  and 
fry.  Add  salt  and  saffron,  and  let  simmer;  stir  into  the  cooked 
wheat.    Serve  wheat  in  a  separate  dish. 

OLLA  A  LA  MALAGA 

1  pound  fresh  beef  !4  pound  pearl  barley 

1  pound  jerked,  or  dried,  beef        %  pound  rice,  well   washed 
l/2  pound  ham  Salt 

*4  pound  white  kidney  beans  Pepper 

1  bay  leaf 

Put  all  ingredients,  except  seasonings,  together  in  an  olla, 
or  a  bean  pot.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  4  hours.  Add  season- 
ings to  taste  at  beginning  of  fourth  hour,  remembering  that 
both  jerked  beef  and  ham  have  already  partially  salted  the  dish. 

GALICIAN  STEW 

(Caldo  Gallego) 

3  pounds  veal,  cut  in  6  pieces  Salt,  pepper,  herb  bouquet 

2  pounds  ham,  cut  in  6  pieces  %  pound  fresh  kidney  beans 
Y4  pound  each  of  3  varieties            6  small  potatoes 

cured  sausage  6  small  onions 

1  pig's  hock  6  cubes  yellow  squash 

*4  pound  butter 

Cover  meats  with  boiling  water  and  cook,  with  seasonings, 
until  tender.  Add  vegetables  and  cook  y2  hour  longer.  Add 
butter  just  before  serving. 

In  Galicia  the  cocido  is  called  caldo,  literally  broth,  and  is 
simpler  and  lighter  than  the  national  dish  as  made  in  other 
provinces.  The  three  different  sausages  used  by  native  cooks 
are  the  chorizo,  the  longaniza,  and  the  morcilla,  the  latter  being 


120  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

a  Galician  specialty.  Highly  seasoned  and  cured  American  hard 
sausages,  of  three  different  varieties,  may  be  substituted. 

The  Asturians  call  their  cocido  a  "pote,"  or  pot,  after  the 
manner  of  the  French  with  their  pot-au-feu,  and  they  consider 
it  incomplete  without  at  least  one  of  the  pig's  ears. 

In  Andalucia  whole  grains  of  wheat  are  soaked,  beaten  in 
a  bag  to  remove  the  husks,  then  cooked  separately  and  served 
with  a  cocido  made  of  meats,  chick  peas,  vegetables,  and  either 
pears  or  quinces.    (See  recipe  under  olla  con  trigo.) 

The  Aragonians  add  fried  pimentos  to  their  regional  dish. 

The  Castilians  include  jerked  beef  and  forcemeat  balls. 
And  the  cooks  of  La  Mantana,  Santander,  make  a  rich  stew 
of  beef,  ham,  blood  sausage,  chicken,  and  green  vegetables,  and 
give  it  the  classical  name,  olla  podrida. 


FISH 

(Pescados) 


STOCK  FOR  BOILING  FISH 


2  onions 

i  cup  vinegar 

2  carrots 

2  quarts  water 

i  leek 

i  sprig  chervil 

i  parsnip 

Herb  bouquet 

2  garlic  cloves 

i  tablespoon  butter 

Mince  the  vegetables  and  mix  with  the  vinegar  and  water. 
Add  the  other  ingredients,  stir  thoroughly  and  cook  over  a  slow 
fire  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  one-half.  Then  strain  and  bottle 
for  future  use. 

No  fish  in  Spain  is  ever  boiled  in  plain  salted  water.  The 
cook  keeps  a  bottle  of  this  stock  on  hand  to  enrich  the  cooking 
water,  and  even  the  water  itself  must  be  sea  water  to  bring  out 
the  true  essence  of  sea  fish.  Roast  fish  is  served  at  formal  din- 
ners and  fried  fish  often  graces  almuerza,  the  midday  breakfast, 
but  the  Spanish  every-day  preference  is  for  boiled  fish,  which 
can  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

ROAST  SHAD 

(Alosa  Asada) 

i  (3-pound)  shad  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Shad  liver 

Salt  1  cup  chopped   mushrooms 

Pepper  l/2  cup  white  wine 

121 


122  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Clean  the  fish  and  score  the  skin  lengthwise  on  each  side. 
Season  the  oil  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub  the  fish  inside  and 
out.  Melt  butter  in  bottom  of  roasting  pan,  lay  in  the  fish,  and 
bake  20  minutes,  basting  in  own  juices.  Meanwhile,  boil  the 
fish  liver  and  mash  it.  Cook  the  mushrooms  until  tender  in  the 
liver  liquor.  Add  the  mashed  liver.  Put  mixture  in  the  pan 
with  the  fish  and  bake  15  minutes  longer,  basting  well.  Remove 
fish  to  hot  platter.    Pour  wine  in  pan,  heat  and  pour  over  fish. 

COD  IN  SAUCE 
(Meluza  en  Salsa) 

2  pounds  fresh  codfish  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

Salt  2  peppercorns 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  tablespoons  roasted  almonds 

1  garlic  clove,  halved  2  tablespoons  fresh  almonds 

1  onion,  minced  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  2  tablespoons  milk 

Cut  fish  in  4  or  5  slices  and  season  with  salt.  Heat  the  oil 
in  a  saucepan  and  put  in  the  garlic,  onion  and  parsley.  Fry  to 
a  delicate  brown;  remove  the  garlic  and  save.  Add  the  tomatoes 
and  when  the  sauce  bubbles,  thin  with  a  little  boiling  water.  Put 
in  the  fish  and  let  it  simmer. 

Grind  to  a  paste  the  peppercorns,  the  fried  garlic  and 
almonds.  Wet  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  and  work  well  into  the 
paste.  2  minutes  before  the  fish  is  ready  to  take  up,  put  the  mix- 
ture in  the  pan  and  dissolve  it  thoroughly  in  the  sauce.  Serve 
fish  in  the  sauce. 

HARLEQUIN  OF  COD 
(Arlequin  de  Merluza) 

3  pounds  fresh  codfish  4  red  peppers,  baked 

Salt  and  pepper  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  lemon  1  egg  yolk 

il/i  cups  cooked  spinach,  Buttered  boiled  rice 

chopped  3  tablespoons  butter 


SPANISH  123 

Cut  the  fish  into  12  symmetrical  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  put  in  a  well-buttered  baking  dish.  Squeeze  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  over  each  slice  and  bake  20  minutes, 
turning  once.  Have  ready  the  spinach,  seasoned;  the  peppers, 
peeled;  the  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  the  beaten  egg  yolk; 
ancT  the  rice  cooked,  drained,  and  buttered.  Cover  four  of  the 
pieces  of  baked  fish  with  the  spinach,  four  with  the  peppers  and 
put  the  bread  crumbs  on  the  remaining  four.  Place  butter  on 
each  piece  and  return  to  the  oven  for  five  minutes. 

Arrange  the  fish  around  a  hot  mound  of  the  rice  in  the 
center.  The  contrasting  colors  make  a  festive  as  well  as  an 
appetizing  dish. 

CODFISH  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 
(Abadejo  con  Nata) 

2  pounds  fresh  cod  %  pound  unsalted  butter 

l/2  cup  stock  (see  recipe)         1  sprig  parsley,  minced 
Salt  and  pepper  3  green  onions,  minced 

1  cup  light  cream 

Put  fish  in  kettle,  add  stock  and  sufficient  water  to  cover. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil,  keeping  head  intact  or,  to 
the  Spanish  eye,  all  is  ruined. 

Melt  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  saute  parsley  and  onion  until 
tender.  Add  cream  gradually.  Simmer  for  15  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Serve  in  a  sauce  boat  to  accompany  the  cod,  which 
is  served  on  a  platter  with  boiled  potatoes  and  chopped  parsley. 

CODFISH  PIE 
{Pastel  de  Merluza) 

2  cups  boiled  codfish,  flaked  1  teaspoon    preserved    pear, 

3  eggs,  beaten  slightly  chopped 

Yi  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped  1  teaspoon  lemon  syrup 

1  teaspoon   preserved  lemon, 
chopped 


124  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  to  a 
rather  thick  paste.    Serve  between  two  baked  pie  crusts. 

The  use  of  pears  to  enrich  fish  and  meat  dishes  is  over- 
looked in  many  countries,  but  the  Spanish  use  this  distinctively 
flavored  fruit  with  great  success. 

SALT  CODFISH  WITH  HONEY 

(Bacalao  con  Mi  el) 

i  pound  salt  codfish  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  3  tablespoons  honey 
Flour  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Soak  the  fish  for  24  hours,  changing  water  several  times. 
Boil  in  unsalted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  dry,  and  cut  it  into 
squares.  Dip  the  pieces  in  the  egg  yolks  and  roll  in  flour.  Fry 
gently  in  the  oil  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Add  honey  and 
let  the  fish  simmer  in  it  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Then 
powder  top  with  cinnamon. 

Honey  is  never  just  honey  in  Europe.  The  better  varieties 
are  distinguished  by  and  sometimes  named  after  the  flowers  from 
which  the  bees  have  sipped. 

Most  prized  in  Spain  is  the  honey  of  Valencia,  fragrant  with 
the  perfume  of  orange  blossoms  and  delicious  with  bunvelas. 
The  honeys  of  La  Alcarria  and  of  Cuena,  flavored  with  rosemary, 
thyme  and  marjoram,  are  excellent  for  seasoning  fish  and  meats. 

GRILLED  MACKEREL 
(Esconbro  en  Parillas) 

3  pounds  fresh  mackerel  3  tablespoons  butter 
Salt                                               Juice  1  lemon 
Pepper  Parsley  to  garnish 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  1  lemon,  sliced 


SPANISH  125 

Split  the  fish  down  the  middle  of  the  back,  if  large;  if  not, 
broil  whole;  score  the  skin.  Mix  salt  and  pepper  with  oil  and 
rub  into  the  flesh.  Oil  a  double  wire  broiler,  lay  mackerel  in 
it;  place  under  grill  and  brown  well  on  both  sides.  Remove 
carefully  to  a  hot  dish  when  done.  Butter  generously  and 
squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over  the  fish. 

Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  and  serve  with 
sauce  for  grilled  fish  (see  recipe). 

This  is  a  favorite  noonday  breakfast  dish  and  a  popular 
entree  at  dinner. 

BREAM  WITH  SAUCE 
(Besugo  al  ]ugo) 

2  pounds  perch  or  sunfish  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Salt                                                   Juice  1  orange 

1  cup  fish  broth 

Clean,  wash  and  drain  the  fish  on  a  napkin.  Rub  with  oil. 
Salt  slightly  and  put  under  the  grill  to  turn  and  cook  slowly. 

Fry  garlic  in  oil  until  tender.  Add  the  lemon  juice,  orange 
juice  and  broth;  cook  5  minutes  and  serve  hot  with  the  grilled 
fish.    The  sauce  may  be  slightly  thickened  with  flour  if  desired. 

The  bream  of  European  waters  is  similar  to  our  yellow  perch 

and  sunfish. 

BREAM  SUPREME 

{Besugo  Excelso) 

Olive  oil  or  butter  %  teaspoon  cloves 

6  perch  or  sunfish  1  cup  white  wine 

Salt  2  tablespoons  toasted  bread 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  crumbs 

Ys  teaspoon  pepper 

Put  hot  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking 
dish  large  enough  to  hold  the  fish  nicely.  Place  the  fish  in  it, 


126  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

sprinkle  with  salt  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  15  to  20  minutes, 

turning  once  carefully. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  in  a  small  saucepan  and  fry 

the  garlic.    Add  J^  teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  wine. 

Stir  in  toasted  bread  crumbs,  remove  from  fire,  and  serve  as  a 

sauce 

SMOTHERED  BROOK  TROUT 

(Truchias  Obscuras) 

6  brook  trout  *4  teaspoon  each  pepper,  nut- 
Salt  meg,   thyme,   saffron   and 
%  cup  butter,  melted  chopped  parsley 
Yi  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs,         l/2  cup  dry  white  wine 
sifted 

Clean,  dry  and  salt  the  fish.  Use  a  baking  pan  large  enough 
to  hold  them  without  overlapping.  Spread  melted  butter  on 
the  bottom  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  thin  layer  of  the  bread  crumbs, 
which  have  been  rolled  in  a  mixture  of  the  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
thyme,  saffron  and  parsley.  Add  wine.  Place  the  fish  on  top; 
scatter  over  them  the  rest  of  the  crumb  mixture;  dot  with  butter. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (3500  F.),  basting  well. 

FRICASSEE  OF  FISH 
(P  esc  ado  Guisado) 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  *4  teaspoon  each  pepper,  cloves, 

2  tomatoes,  chopped  cinnamon,    minced    parsley, 
1  pound  fish  and  saffron 

Y2  cup  ground  almonds 

Heat  olive  oil  in  a  saucepan  until  it  smokes.  Cool  a  little 
and  fry  in  it  the  garlic  and  tomatoes.  When  mixture  bubbles, 
put  in  the  fish  and  saute  while  you  prepare  the  sauce. 

Stir  the  almonds  into  the  boiling  water  and  add  pepper, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  parsley  and  saffron.    Stir  well  and  add  to  the 


SPANISH  127 

contents  of  the  saucepan.    Continue  cooking  the  fish  in  the  sauce. 
Remove  to  hot  platter  and  pour  sauce  over. 

PANNED  FISH 

(Pescado  en  Casuella  Catalana) 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  teaspoon  flour 

1  tomato,   sliced  2  cups  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Salt 

1  teaspoon  saffron  1  pound  fish  (any  kind) 

Fry  garlic  and  tomato  in  oil  until  a  delicate  brown.  Remove 
from  oil,  add  saffron,  and  mash  to  a  paste.  Brown  flour  in 
remaining  oil  and  gradually  stir  in  the  boiling  water.  Add 
paste  and  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Salt  the  fish  and 
add.    Cook  until  brown  on  both  sides  and  all  sauce  is  absorbed. 

Spaniards  are  quite  partial  to  saffron,  which  makes  even  a 
simple  dish  look  festive,  especially  when  served  in  the  beautiful 
native  pottery. 

Saffron  is  made  by  infusing  the  stamens  of  a  variety  of 
crocus  which  flowers  in  Autumn,  and  its  use  in  food  originated 
in  Persia  or  Kashmir,  from  whence  the  Arabs  carried  it  west 
and  the  Monguls  east.  The  Crusaders  brought  it  to  England, 
but  we  Anglo-Saxons  have  limited  its  use  to  a  harmless  vegetable 
coloring  matter.  It  is  valued  for  its  pungent  taste  and  peculiar 
musky  odor  wherever  the  influence  of  Arabian,  Persian,  and 
East  Indian  cooking  has  spread.  A  Spanish  writer  describes 
his  country  as  "God's  paradise,  fruitful  in  crops,  delicious  with 
fruits,  plenteous  in  deer  and  all  kinds  of  game,  abounding  with 
fish,  made  glad  by  good  wines,  sweetened  with  honey,  lighted 
with  wax,  seasoned  with  oil,  and  gay  with  saffron." 


128  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

FRIED  FISH  IN  SAUCE 
(Pescado  Frito  y  en  Salsa) 

6  small  fish  i  garlic  clove,  halved 

Salt  6  peppercorns 

Flour  i  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Oil  or  lard  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Roasted  filberts,  chopped 

Clean,  salt  the  fish  and  flour  them.  Have  the  fat  deep 
enough  to  cover  the  fish  well.  Fry  a  garlic  clove  in  fat,  remove; 
then  put  in  the  fish.  Remove  when  done,  and  keep  hot  on 
serving  plate  while  you  make  the  following  sauce: 

Crush  peppercorns  with  parsley  and  lemon  juice.  Moisten 
with  a  little  boiling  water  and  pour  over  the  fish.  Place  under 
the  grill  for  not  more  than  5  minutes  while  the  sauce  penetrates 
the  fish.  It  must  not  be  too  dry.  Sprinkle  chopped  roasted 
filberts  on  top  and  serve. 

SMALL  FISH  BREADED 

(Pescadillas  en  Caldo  Empanado) 

%  cup  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  1  cup  hot  water 

1  onion,  minced  Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  bay  leaves,  minced  Salt 

2  pounds  small  fish  Toasted   bread   crumbs 

1  teaspoon  flour  1  teaspoon  pepper  sauce 

Saute  in  oil,  clove,  garlic  and  bay  leaf.  Clean  fish,  curve 
them  and  fry  in  rings  in  the  oil.  Remove  when  crisp  and  place 
in  a  hot  serving  dish.  Make  a  roux  with  flour  and  butter  and 
stir  in  water  gradually  until  blended.  Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper  sauce.  Sprinkle  toasted  bread  crumbs  on  fish  and  pour 
sauce  on  top. 


SPANISH  129 

FISH  IN  SOUR  SAUCE 
(Pescado  en  Adobo) 

2  pounds  bass,  whiting,  or  trout  1  bay  leaf 

Olive  oil  or  lard  3  tablespoons  orange  flower  water 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  l/2  orange,  sliced 
Yi  teaspoon  cumin  seeds  /4  cup  vinegar 

(Substitute  anise  or  caraway)       %  cup  hot  water 
A  bit  of  fennel  Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  firm  white  fish  in  oil  or  lard  without  flouring.    Leave 

2  tablespoons  of  the  oil  in  the  frying  pan,  in  which  fry  the 
garlic.  Add  the  cumin  seeds,  fennel,  bay  leaf,  orange  flower 
water,  orange  slices,  vinegar  and  hot  water.  Cook  slowly  for 
10  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  the  bay  leaf 
and  put  the  fried  fish  in  the  sauce.    Serve  hot. 

FRIED  FISH 

{Pescadillas  Fritas) 

Clean  and  wash  fish  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  wet 

with  milk  and  drain.  Roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  hot  olive  oil. 

Serve  with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprinkle  chopped  almonds  over 

them. 

LITTLE  FISH  WITH  LEMON 

(Pescadillas  con  Limon) 

2  pounds   perch,   small   trout  or  Flour 

bass  Oil  or  fresh  lard 

Salt  and  white  pepper  2  lemons,  sliced 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Wash  the  fish,  drain  thoroughly  on  a  napkin,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  fasten  the  tails  into  the  mouths  of  the  fish, 
securing  each  with  a  toothpick,  and  dip  in  flour.  Fry  in  deep 
fat.  Put  into  the  frying  pan,  one  by  one,  and  do  not  let  them 
touch  during  the  process  of  cooking.  Serve  hot,  delicately 
browned  and  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon,  dipped  in  parsley. 


130  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

RAY  WITH  ALMOND  SAUCE 
(Raya  con  Nueces) 

i  pound  ray  fish  i  tablespoon  flour 

(wings  of  the  skate)  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Salt  Vi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

i  onion,  sliced  2  tablespoons  almonds,  peeled 
Liver  of  ray  and  ground 

1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

Place  the  ray  in  cold  water  in  a  casserole  with  a  little  salt 
and  the  sliced  onion.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  take  up  the  fish, 
drain,  remove  skin  and  put  to  cook  in  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover.    When  done,  take  out  and  place  on  a  hot  serving  plate. 

Meanwhile  boil  the  liver  of  the  ray  in  a  separate  saucepan. 
Blend  melted  butter  with  flour.  Mash  the  liver  with  iJ4  cups 
of  the  liquid  it  was  boiled  in,  and  add,  with  the  lemon  juice, 
nutmeg  and  ground  almonds.  Cook  for  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  serve  with  the  fish. 

A  white  sauce  seasoned  with  capers  often  accompanies  this 

fish. 

TUNNY  IN  CASSEROLE 

(Atun  en  Olid) 

1  pound  tinned  tunny  fish  1  celery  stalk,  chopped 

*4  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  each  cinnamon, 

1  onion,  sliced  cloves,   salt,   pepper  and 

2  cups  cooked  chick  peas  caraway  seeds 
*4  head  cabbage,  chopped  %  teaspoon   saffron 
1  tomato,  chopped  1  teaspoon  flour 

Cut  or  break  the  tunny  into  neat  pieces.  Heat  2  tablespoons 
butter,  lay  tunny  in  carefully  and  brown,  taking  care  that  it  is 
not  broken  in  turning.  Take  up  and  set  aside.  Add  1  tablespoon 
butter  to  pan,  and  fry  onion  until  golden.  Press  chick  peas  with 
their  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  with  cabbage,  tomato, 


SPANISH 

131 

celery, 

seasonings, 

and  saffron.    Pour  in 

enough 

boiling 

water 

to  cover  and  simmer  15  minutes. 

In  another  pan  melt  remaining  tablespoon  butter.  Add  flour 
and  brown.  Pour  in  1  cup  broth  from  the  cooking  vegetables, 
stir  until  well  blended.  Pour  into  a  fireproof  dish,  add  vege- 
tables; lay  the  tunny  on  top,  and  keep  hot  in  oven  or  over 
steam  for  10  minutes,  so  the  flavors  will  penetrate  the  fish. 

The  tunny  is  a  glorified  giant  mackerel,  growing  to  ten 
feet  in  length.  Before  cooking,  its  meat  is  blood  red.  It  is  pre- 
served in  large  tins,  imported  by  Italian  grocers,  who  sell  the 
fish  in  bulk  by  the  pound  at  a  cheaper  price  than  the  small 
individual  tins  used  for  hors  d'oeuvres. 

SALMON  PANCAKE 

(Tortilla  de  Salmon) 

2  eggs  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  canned  salmon  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

Beat  the  eggs  and  shred  the  salmon.  Mix  lightly  and  add  the 

salt  and  parsley.    Form  in  the  shape  of  a  thick  pancake  and  fry 

in  the  butter. 

EEL  WHITEBAIT 

(Angulas  Frit  a) 

Angulas  are  little,  almost  transparent,  newly  spawned  eels, 
about  2  inches  long,  although  the  term  includes  the  whitebait 
of  other  finny  species.  They  are  netted  before  dawn  and  never 
kept  over  24  hours.  Fried  in  deep  olive  oil  so  crisp  that  they 
roll  off  the  fork,  and  brought  to  the  table  with  the  oil  still 
popping,  they  are  delicious. 


i32  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SQUID  A  LA  CATALANA 

(Calamares  con  Guisantes  Cataland) 

6  medium-sized  squid  l/z  teaspoon   saffron 

2  onions,  sliced  l/i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  i  bay  leaf,  minced 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  i  cup  claret 

i  teaspoon  minced  parsley  i  cup  boiling  water 

i  large  tomato,  chopped  Salt 

4  peppercorns,  ground  2  cups  young  peas,  cooked 
2  tablespoons  butter 

Wash,  clean  and  pound  the  flesh  of  the  squid,  then  cut  into 
pieces.  Slowly  fry  the  onions  in  olive  oil;  add  the  garlic  and 
parsley  and  fry  until  golden.  Add  the  tomato,  and  when 
bubbling  put  in  the  squid  and  mix  well.  Add  pepper,  saffron, 
cinnamon  and  bay  leaf  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  wine  and 
water,  cover  close  and  simmer  2  hours.  When  tender  add  salt. 
Drain  peas,  add  butter,  mix  with  the  squid  and  serve  very  hot. 

Squid  is  plentiful  along  the  Mediterranean  coast  and  the 
Catalans  make  succulent  dishes  of  it,  the  most  notable  being 
calamares  en  su  tinta,  squid  in  its  own  ink.  Another,  just  as 
strange  to  the  foreign  palate,  is  squid  cooked  with  chocolate. 

SPANISH  SQUID 
(Calamares  Espaghol) 

6  medium-sized  squid  Cayenne 

%  cup  olive  oil  Yz  cup  orange  flower  water 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  2  tablespoons   vinegar 

Salt 

Wash  the  squid  well  and  cut  into  pieces.  Heat  the  oil  in 
a  sauce  pan  and  brown  the  garlic  and  squid,  turning  them  con- 
stantly.    Cool  slightly,  add  cayenne,  orange  flower  water  and 


SPANISH  133 

vinegar;  simmer  until  tender,  keeping  closely  covered  to  retain 
flavor.  Add  salt  only  after  the  squid  is  done.  If  desired,  a  little 
boiling  water  may  bemadded  and  the  sauce  thickened  with  flour. 

The  orange  flower  water  is  a  Moorish  touch,  borrowed  from 
the  Arabs  of  North  Africa,  who  substituted  it  for  the  rose  water 
so  prominent  in  the  cooking  of  Asia  Minor. 

PAINTING  THE  EEL  RED 

(Pintarrajas  a  Anquilas) 

1  (3-pound)  eel  1  cup  roasted  almonds 
3  tablespoons  vinegar                            Juice   l/2  lemon 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  Salt 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley  1  egg  yolk,  beaten 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

*4  teaspoon   each   cloves,   cinna- 
mon, saffron  and  pepper 

Clean  and  skin  eel  and  place  it  in  boiling  water  and  vinegar 

for  10  minutes.     Cut  into  2-inch  lengths  and  dry.    Fry  garlic 

and  parsley  in  oil.    Add  %  CUP  broth  obtained  from  parboiling 

eel.    Mix  cloves,  cinnamon,  saffron  and  pepper  and  stir  in.    Put 

eels  into  a  pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.     Simmer  until 

tender,  add  roasted  almonds,  cut  in  slivers,  and  the  lemon  juice. 

Boil  up  once,  salt,  and  remove  fish  to  hot  platter.    Take  the  pan 

from  fire  and  stir  in  egg  yolk.    Serve  in  a  sauce  boat  with  the 

fish. 

CRABS 

(Cambaros) 

The  Spanish  cook  uses  the  small  crabs  in  pastes  and  bisques 
mainly.  The  large  ones  are  boiled,  preferably  in  sea  water,  and 
presented  chilled  and  piled  in  a  pyramid  with  branches  of  parsley 
curled  about  them. 


134  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SHRIMP  PATTIES 

{Empanadas  de  Camarones) 

Heat  cooked  shrimps,  stoned  olives  and  a  little  cooked  celery, 
diced,  in  reduced  salsa  espanola  (Spanish  sauce) ;  put  in  covered 
patty  shells  and  place  in  the  oven  8  minutes. 

The  Spaniards  are  great  piecers  between  meals,  as  well  as 
ardent  cafe  loungers;  their  fondness  for  shrimps  is  so  great  that 
if  they  had  nothing  to  do  they  would  sit  before  a  cup  of  coffee 
or  chocolate  in  a  sidewalk  cafe  and  shuck  shrimps  all  day  long. 
Ambulating  peddlers  of  boiled  shrimps  cover  regular  routes  with 
wicker  baskets  loaded  with  the  succulent  curled  sea-food  laid 
out  in  patterns  beneath  a  white  cloth.  These  sell  as  readily  as 
peanuts  at  an  American  baseball  game  and  are  cracked  open 
and  eaten  with  the  same  nonchalant  avidity. 

When  made  into  empanadas  or  patties  they  are  kept  warm 
in  a  little  nickel-mounted  glass  box  on  every  bar,  so  the  drinker 
may  help  himself  and  pay  his  penny.  By  being  kept  piping 
hot  they  have  an  advantage  over  the  pork  and  veal  pies,  sold 
cold  in  English  bars. 

Empanadas  resemble  the  popular  English  pasties  in  being 
made  of  snips  of  game,  larks,  pigeons,  everything  tasty,  but  they 
differ  in  being  juicier  and  always  richly  flavored  with  olives. 
Very  small  empanadas  are  affectionately  called  empanadillas. 


EGGS 

(Huevos) 


HUEVOS  A  LA  MODE 

6  eggs  i  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

i  tablespoon  prepared   mustard        6  slices  fried  bread 
i  tablespoon  Gruyere  cheese, 
grated 

Fry  the  eggs  on  both  sides.  Have  mixed  together  the 
mustard,  parsley  and  grated  Gruyere  cheese.  Spread  fried  bread 
with  this  mixture  and  serve  hot  with  the  eggs. 

Eggs  cooked  in  some  style  appear  at  nearly  every  almuerza, 
the  Spanish  breakfast,  which  is  served  at  noon.  As  in  all 
European  countries,  the  Spanish  early  morning  breakfast  is  a 
light  afTair.  Bread-women  call  at  the  doors  leaving  pomecillos 
(large  rolls),  which  with  a  generous  bowl  of  coffee  and  hot 
goat's  milk,  half  and  half,  usually  break  the  night's  fast  for  rich 
and  poor  alike.  Herds  of  goats  are  driven  through  the  streets 
and  milked  at  one's  doorstep,  so  the  milk  for  coffee  is  always 
fresh  and  unadulterated. 

EGGS  MODERN  STYLE 
(Huevos  a  la  Moderna) 

6  or  8  potatoes  Hot  milk 

Salt  Cooked  string  beans 

Pepper  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

*4  cup  butter  6  eggs 

Y2  teaspoon  paprika 
135 


136  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Boil  potatoes,  drain,  mash,  season  and  beat  light  with  butter 
and  hot  milk.  Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  a  ring 
of  cooked  string  beans  that  have  been  sauteed  in  butter  and 
sprinkled  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Make  a  half  dozen 
little  hollows  in  the  potatoes  and  put  in  them  the  eggs,  poached 
and  well  drained.  Powder  well  with  paprika  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  The  dish  can  be  kept  hot  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
while  preparing  the  eggs. 

EGGS  TOLEDO  STYLE 
(Huevos  en  Toledo) 

1  cup  minced  ham  3  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  cooked  peas  6  eggs 

2  tablespoons  mushrooms  1  red  sweet  pepper 

(chopped)  12  black  olives 

Saute  ham,  peas  and  mushrooms  in  the  butter.  Fry  eggs  and 
place  in  a  serving  dish  with  the  sauteed  mixture  in  the  center. 
Garnish  with  slices  of  pepper  and  olives. 

EGGS  IN  BURNT  BUTTER 
(Huevos  en  Salsa  Negra) 

Butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Eggs  Hot  vinegar 

Heat  butter  in  pan  until  it  is  burnt  dark  brown  and  break 
in  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  on  both  sides.  Place  in  a  hot  serving  dish.  Sprinkle  a  little 
hot  vinegar  in  the  butter  and  pour  over  the  eggs. 

EGGS  GARNISHED 
(Huevos  Guarnecidos) 

1  cup  chopped  mushrooms  6  eggs 

1  cup  fresh  asparagus  tips  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 


SPANISH  i37 

Saute  mushrooms  with  the  asparagus  tips  in  the  butter  until 
tender.  Break  the  eggs  over  the  vegetables  and  season.  Have  the 
flame  low  and  turn  carefully  in  spoonfuls  from  the  bottom  of 
the  pan  as  the  eggs  break  and  mix  with  the  saute.  2  or  3 
minutes  will  suffice  for  the  cooking.  Serve  immediately.  Canned 
asparagus  and  mushrooms  can  be  used. 

As  in  Spain  one  always  waits  for  this  dish  to  be  prepared, 
it  makes  an  excellent  one  for  table  cooking. 

EGGS  IN  POTATOES 
(Huevos  en  Patatas) 

4  baked  potatoes  1  teaspoon  saffron 

Salt  and  pepper  4  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter  Cress 

Cut  the  tops  from  the  baked  potatoes  and  scoop  out  the 
inside.  Mash,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  saffron,  and 
put  back  in  the  potato  skins.  Make  a  depression  in  each  one 
and  break  an  egg  into  it.  Put  in  the  oven  to  set  the  egg.  When 
ready  for  the  table,  replace  the  tops  of  the  potatoes,  garnish  with 
cress  and  serve  on  a  napkin-covered  plate. 

EGGS  IN  ONION  SAUCE 
(Huevos  en  Ajillo) 

2  large  onions,  sliced  6  eggs 

1  sweet  red  pepper,  sliced  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Parsley  or  cress 

Fry  onions  and  pepper  slowly  in  the  oil  until  tender.  Then 
break  the  eggs  on  top  and  season  to  taste.  Stir  carefully  until 
eggs  coagulate.  Serve  on  hot  plate,  garnished  with  parsley  or 
cress. 


138  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

EGGS  WITH  TOMATOES 
{Huevos  con  Tomato) 

3  tomatoes  i  cup  minced  ham 

i  tablespoon  olive  oil  6  eggs,  well  beaten 

Peel  and  seed  tomatoes.  Chop  them  and  saute  in  the  olive 
oil  for  15  minutes.  Add  ham  and  eggs.  Cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  serve  when  mixture  is  of  proper  consistency. 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 
{Huevos  con  Queso) 

6  slices  bacon  6  eggs 

1  slice  cheese  2  tablespoons  hot  cream 

Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  bacon  crisp  and  place  it  hot  with  slivers  of  cheese  on 
the  bottom  of  a  covered  baking  dish.  Break  eggs  over  them, 
season  and  pour  in  the  hot  cream.  Place  in  moderate  oven  until 
eggs  set. 

EGGS  WITH  BRUSSEL  SPROUTS 
{Huevos  con  Coles) 

1  dozen  Brussel  sprouts  1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

Salt  and  pepper  6  eggs 

il/2  cups  white  sauce 

Cook  the  sprouts,  drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll 
in  melted  butter  and  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Break  the  eggs 
over  them,  season  and  place  in  moderate  oven  (350°F.)  until 
eggs  set.    Serve  with  white  sauce. 


SPANISH  139 

EGGS  WITH  GARLIC  AND  CUMIN 
(Huevos  con  Ajo  e  Comino) 

20  blanched  almonds  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  clove  garlic  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  bread  54  teaspoon  saffron 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil  l/z  cup  water 

2  peppercorns  4  eggs 
1  teaspoon  cumin  seeds 

(Substitute  caraway  or  anise) 

Fry  the  almonds,  garlic,  and  bread  in  olive  oil.  Remove,  and 
pass  through  the  meat  grinder  with  the  peppercorns  and  cumin 
seeds.  Return  to  pan  with  the  cinnamon,  salt,  and  saffron,  add 
Y2  cup  water  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Then  add  beaten  eggs  and 
stir  until  thick. 

EGGS  WITH  ARTICHOKES 
(Huevos  con  Alcahofas) 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  Y2  cup  thick  tomato  juice 

Juice  1  lemon  6  eggs 

6  artichoke  bottoms  6  slices  beef  marrow 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Fry  the  garlic  in  the  olive  oil  and  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
artichoke  bottoms.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and  cook 
until  the  artichokes  are  tender,  then  remove  from  water  and 
drain.  Place  in  a  hot  flat  serving  dish  and  cover  with  a  layer 
of  hot  tomato  juice  boiled  down  until  thick.  Fry  one  egg  for 
each  artichoke,  season  and  place  on  top.  Over  the  egg  place  a 
round  slice  of  fried  marrow  and  top  the  marrow  with  parsley. 


140  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

(Fritadas  de  Huevos) 

i  onion,  minced  i  ripe  tomato,  chopped 

i  sweet  green  pepper,  minced  4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Saute  the  onion  and  pepper  in  butter  10  minutes.  Add 
chopped  tomato  and  saute  10  minutes  longer.  Beat  the  egg  yolks 
and  whites  separately  and  add  to  the  mixture,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  eggs  are  cooked.    Season  to  taste. 

FRIED  EGGS 
(Fritada  de  Huevos) 

4  eggs  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  %  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Salt  l/z  tablespoon  vinegar 

Y2  tablespoon  hot  water 

Fry  the  eggs  in  the  oil  on  one  side  only;  salt  them  and 
remove  to  a  hot  plate.  Fry  garlic  in  the  oil  with  the  black  pepper. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Add  the  vinegar  and  water,  heat 
and  toss  over  the  eggs. 

STUFFED  EGGS 
(Huevos  Hellenos) 

6  hard-boiled  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  bread  crumbs  Butter 

3  teaspoons  light  cream  1  egg  yolk,  well  beaten 

3  teaspoons  minced  parsley  Flour 

Cinnamon 

Cut  eggs  in  half,  remove  yolks  and  mash  with  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  cream,  and  parsley.  Season.  Add  enough  butter  to 
make  a  smooth  paste.  Fill  egg  whites  and  fasten  together  with 
a  toothpick.  Dip  in  beaten  egg  yolk  and  roll  in  flour.  Fry 
in  butter  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon. 


SPANISH  141 

SPANISH  OMELET 

{Tortilla  de  Huevos  Espahol) 

5  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  onion,  sliced  fine  2  cups  beef  broth 

Yz  garlic  clove,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  large  tomato,  chopped  Vz  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

4  mushrooms,  chopped  7  eggs 

5  tablespoons  cold  water 

Heat  2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  add  onion  and  fry  slowly  until 
it  begins  to  color;  add  garlic  and  fry  until  golden.  Then  add 
tomato;  simmer;  add  mushrooms  and  green  pepper  and  simmer 
until  thick.  Pour  in  broth  and  simmer,  stirring  frequently  until 
liquid  is  the  consistency  of  a  sauce;  season  and  add  parsley.  At 
least  three-quarters  of  an  hour  of  constant  care  is  necessary  to 
bring  this  sauce  to  perfection.  Beat  eggs,  with  water  and  sea- 
sonings only,  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Heat  remaining  olive  oil 
to  near  smoking,  pour  in  egg  mixture  and  reduce  heat  some- 
what. Proceed  to  make  omelet  in  the  French  manner,  thus: 
Hold  the  handle  of  the  pan  with  the  left  hand;  as  soon  as  a 
good  film  is  set  tilt  pan  toward  you,  lift  the  far  half  of  film 
and  fold  it  over  toward  you;  set  pan  level  again  and  liquid  egg 
at  once  covers  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  a  new  film  sets,  which 
is  lifted  and  deftly  turned  over  the  part  already  cooked.  Repeat 
as  many  times  as  is  possible,  for  the  more  layers  of  film,  the 
more  tender  the  omelet.  When  the  last  film  is  set  lay  some 
of  the  sauce  across  the  center  of  omelet  and  roll  the  part  already 
cooked  over  it.  Leave  only  until  well  set,  then  slide  onto  a  hot 
platter.  Pour  sauce  around  and  serve  at  once.  The  omelet  must 
be  moist,  and  creamy,  the  inside  having  the  tender  consistency 
of  a  custard. 

The  pan  is  the  secret  of  a  successful  omelet.  It  should  be 
thick,  shallow,  wide,  and  have  spreading  sides,  in  order  to  allow 
the  greatest  freedom  in  manipulating  the  eggs;  but  most  im- 


142  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

portant  of  all,  it  must  be  kept  perfectly  smooth  by  being  used 
for  no  other  frying.  In  case  the  careless  cook  should  allow  the 
omelet  to  stick,  the  pan  may  be  made  smooth  by  heating  oil  or 
lard  in  it  and  then  wiping  it  clean  with  successive  wads  of 
crumpled  brown  paper,  rubbing  and  polishing  until  no  vestige 
of  scorched  butter  or  egg  remains.  An  omelet  pan  is  always 
kept  right  for  the  next  omelet  by  cleaning  it  in  this  manner. 
It  should  never  be  washed.  A  wide  spatula  is  best  for  lifting 
the  cooked  film  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  as  well  as  for  the 
final  rolling  and  taking  up. 

HAM  OMELET 

(Tortilla  de  Jamon) 

Y2  pound  cooked  ham,  minced  3  cups  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  minced  onion  Salt 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar 

2  tablespoons  mashed  potatoes  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  ham  with  onion  and  parsley.  Dissolve  the  mashed 
potato  in  the  milk  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  add  with  the  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  thoroughly  beaten.  Mix  the  ingredients 
well.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  but  not  dry,  and 
whip  them  into  the  omelet.  Put  in  buttered  baking  dish  and 
set  in  water  in  a  moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  until  set. 


MEATS 

{Carries) 


POT  PIE 

(Menestrd) 

2  tablespoons  fat  i  hard-cooked  egg,  sliced 

l/2  pound  sausage,  sliced  i  cup  green  lima  beans 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  2  cups  green  peas 

1  tomato,  chopped  2  artichoke  bottoms 

54  teaspoon  each,  cinnamon,  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

pepper  and  saffron  Boiling  water 

1  cup  left-over  meat,  chopped  1  standard   recipe  biscuit  dough 

Melt  fat  in  sauce  pan  and  fry  sliced  sausage  in  it.  Remove 
sausage  and  fry  the  garlic  and  tomato.  Mix  cinnamon,  pepper 
and  saffron  and  add  to  garlic  and  tomato.  Then  add  sausage, 
meat,  egg,  lima  beans,  green  peas,  artichoke  bottoms  and  salt. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly,  covered,  until  thick. 
Put  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  rich  biscuit  crust  and  bake 
quickly  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.). 

WHITE  PETTICOAT  PIES 

(Pastelillos  Saboyanos) 

Pie  paste  54  teaspoon    each    of    salt,    nut- 
54  pound  cooked  veal,  chopped  meg,  saffron  and  sugar 

%  pound  cooked  pork,  chopped  %  teaspoon  freshly   ground 
54  cup  rich  gravy  pepper 

Line  patty  tins  with  pie  paste  and  cut  out  covers  to  fit. 
Mix  all  ingredients  together,  fill  the  little  pies,  cover  and  bake. 

143 


i44  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

The  frilled  white  crust  gives  them  their  quaint  name  "petti- 
coats." 

These  pastelillos  belong  to  the  famous  empanada  family 
that  has  stretched  from  Spain  and  Portugal  across  to  Cuba, 
Mexico  and  all  Spanish  American  countries.  There  is  nothing 
quite  like  them  in  any  other  cuisine  and  they  go  wonderfully 
with  wine.  Most  recipes  include  olives  for  piquance  and  there 
is  a  resemblance  between  these  pasties  and  olives,  for  both  are 
acquired  tastes.  At  first  any  sort  of  empanada  may  seem 
squashy,  because  of  the  abundance  of  juice  and  gravy  generally 
lacking  in  other  meat  pies.  But  once  the  pastelillo  appetite  is 
formed  they  are  downed  by  the  peck,  like  oysters. 

SAUSAGE  BREAD 
(Coca  de  Sobreasada) 

i  standard  recipe  coffee  bread  Uncooked  pork  sausage 

dough  Paprika 

Sweet  green  or  red  peppers  Granulated  sugar 

Roll  coffee  cake  dough  into  a  thin  layer  and  place  in  a 
baking  pan.  Slice  peppers  and  cover  dough  with  them.  Place 
on  top  pieces  of  sausage  about  the  size  of  large  plums.  Powder 
scarlet  with  paprika.  Sprinkle  a  generous  amount  of  sugar  over 
this  and  bake.    Serve  hot. 

This  is  a  delicious  invention  of  Mallorca,  where  it  is  baked 

in  huge  stone  ovens  on  round  baking  tins  from  2  to  3  feet  in 

diameter. 

VEAL  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

(Ternera  con  Esparragos) 

2  ribs  veal  1  small  turnip,  minced 

Salt  3  small  carrots,  chopped 

Water  1  bay  leaf,  minced 

1  onion,  minced  1  sprig  parsley,  minced 


SPANISH  145 

1  bunch  fresh  asparagus  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

Juice  of  x/z  lemon 

Boil  veal  ribs  in  salted  water  together  with  the  onions,  turnip, 
carrots,  bay  leaf  and  parsley.  Cut  asparagus  in  2-inch  lengths 
and  cook  separately.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  thicken  the  broth 
with  the  flour  which  has  been  browned  in  the  butter.  Add 
beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  lemon  juice.  Put  in  drained  asparagus, 
boil  up  once  and  serve. 

CALVES'  BRAINS 
(Sesos  de  Ternera) 

1  pair  calf's  brains  3  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  vinegar  3  sprigs  parsley 

Cooked  green  peas 

Blanch  brains  in  boiling  water.  Remove  the  outer  skin, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  inner  tissue.  Place  in  cold  water 
for  1  hour.  Drain,  sprinkle  2  tablespoons  of  the  vinegar  over 
them  and  leave  another  half  hour.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan, 
drain  and  lightly  salt  the  brains  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Place  on  a  hot  serving  dish  and  fry  the  parsley.  Add  remaining 
vinegar  to  pan,  heat  well  and  pour  over  the  brains.  Garnish 
with  green  peas. 

KIDNEYS  IN  SHERRY 
(Ri  nones  al  Jerez) 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  sweet  onion,  minced  Salt 

1  pair  veal  kidneys  Y2  cup  sherry 
Cress 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  brown  the  onion.  Put  in  the 
kidneys  after  washing  and  cutting  them  into  pieces.    Add  pepper, 


146  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

salt  and  the  sherry.    Simmer  5  minutes,  serve  very  hot  in  the 
sauce,  garnished  with  cress. 

BEEF  TOLEDO  STYLE 

(Vaca  a  Estilo  de  Toledon) 
!/4  pound  sliced  bacon  Herb  bouquet 

1  (4-pound)  roast  l/2  cup  red  wine 

2  carrots,  minced  Juice   l/2   lemon 
1  onion,  minced  Salt 

Pepper 

Put  strips  of  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  and  lay 
the  roast  over  them.  Cover  with  carrots,  onion  and  bouquet. 
Pour  wine  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  lemon  juice.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  very  closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°F.)  basting  occasionally.  Pour  fat  from  the  pan, 
strain  remaining  gravy  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

A  bottle  of  dry  white  wine  and  another  of  common  red 
wine  always  stand  on  the  kitchen  shelf.  The  Spanish  cook,  in 
contrast  to  the  French  chef,  is  very  informal  about  the  use  of 
wine  in  cooking.  A  splash  of  wine  will  moisten  a  drying  dish, 
when  water  would  spoil  the  texture.  And  a  few  tablespoons 
of  wine  are  thrown  into  the  roasting  pan  for  basting,  or  added 
to  thin  a  sauce.  Wine  will  soften  a  tough  cut  of  meat  and 
shorten  the  cooking  time.  In  such  cases  the  wine  does  not 
appear  as  an  ingredient  in  a  recipe.  Red  wines  are  used  with 
red  meats;  white  wines  with  white  meats,  fish  and  vegetables. 

ROAST  BEEF  SPANISH  STYLE 

(Rosbif  Espano  Pizado) 
1  (5-pound)  roast  Salt 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  l/i  cup  red  wine 
1  teaspoon    each    pepper,    bay 

leaf,  parsley  and  chopped 
»     scallions 


SPANISH  147 

Marinate  meat  8  to  10  hours  in  a  mixture  of  olive  oil,  pepper, 
bay  leaf,  parsley  and  scallions.  Place  in  a  roasting  pan,  season 
with  salt  and  add  marinating  mixture.  Roast  in  a  hot  oven 
(4000  F.)  about  20  minutes,  turning  several  times.  Reduce  heat, 
add  wine  and  finish  roasting,  basting  frequently. 

The  beef  of  Spain  is  raised  for  bull-fighting  and  not  for  the 
table,  hence  it  lacks  the  richer  flavor  and  juicy  tenderness  of  finer 
beef  cattle.  To  overcome  this  lack,  the  beef  is  not  only  hung 
for  2  or  3  days  but  the  Spanish  cook  marinates  it,  thereby  adding 
greatly  to  the  flavor. 

There  are  four  common  methods  of  roasting  to  choose 
from:  on  the  spit,  in  the  oven,  enveloped  in  oiled  paper,  and 
between  the  gridirons  over  clear  coals;  but  preference  is  usually 
given  to  the  spit,  on  which  the  meat  continuously  turns  before 
a  lively  charcoal  fire  until  it  is  well  seared.  Then  the  heat  is 
lessened  and  the  roast  is  frequently  basted  with  wine,  its  own 
juices,  and  some  of  the  seasoned  oil.  A  long  needle  is  thrust 
into  the  meat  when  it  is  considered  properly  roasted,  and  if  no 
blood  follows  but  just  a  rich  reddish  juice  flows,  the  roast  is 
taken  up.  Its  juices  caught  in  a  pan  underneath  are  poured 
around  it,  and  a  dish  of  potatoes,  mashed,  boiled,  or  in  croquettes, 
invariably  accompanies  it  to  the  table. 

SPANISH  BEEFSTEAK 

(Chateau  briant  a  la  Espanola) 

One  thinks  of  this  dish  as  belonging  exclusively  to  the  French 
cuisine;  but  it  is  very  common  in  the  Spanish  kitchen.  The 
steaks  are  l/2  the  thickness  of  the  French  cuts.  Well  pounded 
at  first,  they  are  then  quickly  broiled,  seasoned  and  served  on 
toast  with  little  mounds  of  tender  peas  and  melted  butter  topping 
them,  and  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  added.  Bits  of  truffle  are 
often  mixed  with  the  peas. 


148  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

NATIONAL  BEEFSTEAK 
(Bijtec  Nacional) 

i  small  steak  i  egg  yolk 

i  veal  kidney  i  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

2  slices  toast  i  tablespoon   each:    Spanish 
i  teaspoon  minced  parsley  sauce,  puree  of  cabbage 

Lemon  slices  and  fried  carrot 

Grill  a  small  steak  with  the  kidney,  cut  in  half.  Place  on 
a  hot  service  plate  with  a  piece  of  toast  under  each  kidney  half. 
Garnish  with  parsley  on  one  side  of  the  plate  and  slices  of 
lemon  on  the  other  side. 

Beat  egg  yolk.  Add  butter,  Spanish  sauce,  cabbage  puree 
and  carrot.  Heat  over  water  until  it  thickens,  stirring  frequently. 
Pour  over  the  kidney. 

BEEF  OR  MUTTON  STEAKS  WITH  PINE  NUTS 
(Bifes  con  Pi h ones) 

2  tablespoons  fat  2  tomatoes,  sliced 

2  pounds  beef  or  mutton,  sliced  1  teaspoon  salt 

thin  lA  teaspoon   pepper 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  teaspoon    cinnamon 

1  sprig  parsley,  minced  l/i  cup  whole  pine  nut  meats 

l/i  cup  ground  pine  nuts 

Heat  fat  in  a  saucepan.  Pound  the  meat,  brown  with  garlic 
and  parsley  in  the  fat.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  let  simmer 
10  minutes.  Add  salt  and  enough  boiling  water  to  just  cover 
the  meat.  Cook  slowly,  turning  occasionally,  for  another  20 
minutes.  Then  add  pepper,  cinnamon  and  the  pine  nuts.  Cook 
10  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 


SPANISH 


149 


Salt  and  pepper 
Vi  tablespoon  flour 
%  teaspoon  each  saffron  and 
cinnamon 


COOKED  MEAT  IN  GRAVY 
(Came  del  Cocido  en  Salsa) 
2  cups  cooked  meat,  chopped         1  pint  meat  broth 
2  cups  small  potatoes,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  butter 
1  onion,  chopped 

1  garlic  clove,  minced 

2  tomatoes,  chopped 

Cut  meat  into  small  pieces  and  brown  with  the  potatoes  in 
hot  butter.  Add  the  onion  and  garlic  and  brown.  Then  add 
tomatoes  and  broth  and  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper;  thicken  with  flour  blended 
with  a  little  water;  stir  in  the  saffron  and  cinnamon;  serve  hot. 

RAGOUT  OF  MEAT 
(Guisado  de  Came) 


4  cups  cooked  meat 
Beef  broth 

4  potatoes,  sliced  thickly 
3  green  peppers,  broiled 
1  cooked  beet,  sliced 


2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  garlic  clove,  minced 
1  green  pepper,  minced 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Yi  teaspoon  saffron 

Heat  oil  in  a  kettle  until  it  smokes,  then  cool  a  little  and 
fry  in  it  the  garlic,  green  pepper,  salt  and  saffron.  Add  meat 
and  boiling  broth  to  cover.  Add  potatoes  and  allow  to  simmer 
until  they  are  tender.  5  minutes  before  serving,  add  the  peppers 
and  beet  which  has  been  fried. 

In  Europe  the  beets  are  sold  in  the  market  already  boiled. 

COOKED  MEAT  WITH  FILBERTS 
(Came  con  Avellanas) 
4  cups  cooked  meat,  cut  up  1  sprig  parsley,  minced 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  onion,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  Yi  cup  whole  filberts,  roasted 

Yi  cup  filberts,  ground 


150  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Brown  meat  in  a  sauce  pan  with  butter.  Add  onion,  garlic 
and  parsley  and  brown.  Add  tomatoes  and  cook  until  onion  is 
tender  and  mixture  has  thickened.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  the  filbert  and  serve. 

OX-TONGUE  BAKED 
(Lengua  de  Vaca  Asada) 

i  smoked  tongue  i  onion,  chopped 

Bacon  strips  i  garlic  clove,  minced 

Herb  bouquet  Salt 

*4  cup  butter  6  peppercorns 

Yi  cup  white  wine 

Soak  tongue  overnight.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
slowly  cook  until  just  tender.  Drain,  remove  skin  and  roots; 
lard  with  bacon  strips.  Lay  in  roasting  pan  or  pot-roast  kettle 
with  all  other  ingredients;  add  2  cups  of  the  tongue  liquor, 
and  bake  or  pot-roast,  turning  occasionally  until  liquid  has 
evaporated  and  tongue  is  lightly  browned.  Take  up.  Add  a 
little  of  the  tongue  liquor  to  pan  contents,  boil  up,  strain,  and 
serve  as  a  sauce. 

PORK  IN  PATAPAR 
(Albondigas  Empapeladas  de  Cerdo) 

2  pounds  pork  loin  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Y2  pound  ham  Juice  2  lemons 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

Bread  crumbs 

Chop  the  pork  and  ham  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice.  Form  into  balls  and  roll  in  melted  butter,  then  in 
bread  crumbs.  Envelop  each  ball  in  a  piece  of  oiled  paper  and 
bake.    Serve  very  hot  in  the  papers. 


/ 


SPANISH  151 

PORK  HAMBURGERS 
(Came  de  Cerdo  en  Tortilla) 

2  pounds   lean    pork  2  teaspoons  butter,  melted    . 

1  onion,  minced  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  egg  yolk 

1  sprig  parsley,  minced  Bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  each  salt,  pepper,  Fat  for  frying 
cinnamon  and  saffron 

Put  pork  through  a  grinder  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  onion, 
garlic  and  parsley.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  cinnamon  and  saffron. 
Stir  in  butter  and  vinegar.  Let  the  mixture  season  for  an  hour. 
Form  into  cakes,  dip  in  egg  yolk  beaten  with  a  little  cold  water 
and  cover  with  bread  crumbs.    Fry  on  both  sides. 

Tortillas  of  beef  and  mutton  are  made  the  same  way. 

The  Spaniard  utilizes  every  portion  of  the  pig;  nothing  is 
thrown  away.  The  tail,  the  ear,  the  snout  and  the  ribs  figure 
largely  in  their  succulent  cocidos.  The  kidneys  are  cooked  in 
wine.  Chitterlings  appear  in  pies.  A  roast  ham  is  usually  the 
selection  for  a  formal  occasion,  and  an  embuchado,  a  large 
sausage  made  of  pork  minced  fine,  is  the  popular  choice  of  a 
more  intimate  table,  while  jellied  pigs  feet  are  luncheon  treats. 

SUGARED  PORK 
(Carne  de  Cerdo  en  Dulce) 

1  pork  loin  2  tablespoons  syrup 

Salt  and  pepper  2  tablespoons  granulated   sugar 

2  tablespoons  fat  Thin  slices  orange 
1  pint  white  wine  Parsley  sprigs 

Rub  the  meat  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  brown  it  nicely 
in  hot  fat.  Add  the  wine,  syrup,  and  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  half  cover.  Cover  the  kettle  as  close  as  possible  and  let  simmer 
until  tender,  turning  every  5  minutes  at  first,  then  every   10 


i52  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

minutes.  Allow  30  minutes  to  the  pound.  When  tender  take 
out  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  it.  Set  under  grill  until  a  sugar 
crust  forms.    Garnish  with  orange  slices  and  parsley. 

Serve  with  salsa  de  Catalana,  substituting  the  liquid  in 
which  the  pork  was  cooked  for  the  salsa  espanola  required  in 
the  salsa  de  Catalana  recipe.     (See  under  sauces.) 

PORK  CHOPS  WITH  CAPERS 

{Chuletas  de  Cerdo  con  Alcaparras) 

6  pork  chops  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

Salt  1  green  pepper,  minced 

Flour  2  tablespoons  capers 

1  tablespoon  butter  Parsley  sprigs 

Hot  meat  broth  12  Spanish  olives 

Have  the  chops  cut  fairly  thin,  salt  them  and  roll  in  flour. 
Heat  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  put  in  the  chops,  turning  them 
until  both  sides  are  a  golden  brown.  Then  put  in  enough  broth 
to  not  quite  cover  them  and  add  vinegar.  Cook,  closely  covered, 
over  moderate  heat  for  40  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve  add 
green  pepper  and  capers.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  olives. 

Pickled  green  nasturtium  seeds  are  much  used  in  place  of 
capers,  for  the  Spaniards  consider  the  nasturtium,  flowers,  leaves, 
stems  and  seeds,  indispensable  ingredients  in  several  dishes. 

GRILLED  RASHERS   OF  PORK 

(Lonjas  de  Cerdo  Esparrilladas) 

1  pound  lean  pork  Olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  Chestnut  and  red  bean  puree 

Cut  pork  as  thin  as  breakfast  bacon.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  rub  on  each  side  with  olive  oil.  Grill  under  a  quick 
flame  15  minutes,  then  arrange  on  a  plate  in  the  form  of  a 
crown  a  thick  puree  of  chestnuts  and  red  beans  in  the  center 


SPANISH   '  153 

holding  up  the  pork  rashers.    The  puree  must  be  as  thick  as 
mashed  potatoes. 

ORENSE  CURATES  HAM 
(Jamon  del  Cura  de  Sacra  de  Orense) 

1  ham  3  onions,  sliced 

Sour  grass  or  sorrel  Herb  bouquet 

%  cup  coriander  seeds  Granulated  sugar 

3  carrots,  sliced  Parsley 

1  parsnip,  sliced  1  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  sherry 

Put  ham  in  a  large  pot  with  a  wisp  of  sour  grass,  coriander 
seeds,  carrots,  parsnip,  onion  and  herb  bouquet,  and  cold  water 
to  cover.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  about  3  or  4  hours,  or 
until  tender.  Wash  skin  in  hot  water,  but  do  not  remove  it, 
for  the  Spanish  cook  says  "the  skin  of  the  ham  is  the  bottle 
that  holds  the  perfume  within."  Rub  skin  generously  with 
sugar  and  brown  in  the  oven.  The  Spanish  cook  uses  a  red 
hot  Pala  or  salamander  to  melt  the  sugar  into  the  skin  and 
brown  it  to  a  golden  crust.  Serve  on  platter  in  a  nest  of  parsley 
and  ornament  shank  bone  with  a  paper  rosette.  Make  sauce 
by  browning  flour  in  1  tablespoon  fat  skimmed  from  the  cooking 
liquor.  Gradually  stir  in  1  cup  strained  liquor,  add  sherry  and 
serve. 

A  hot  spinach  pie  usually  accompanies  baked  ham.  This 
is  simply  minced  cooked  spinach,  well  seasoned,  covered  with  a 
pie  crust  and  baked.  If  the  occasion  is  a  fiesta,  there  will  be 
purees  of  apples  and  chestnuts;  and  gelatines  cut  in  fancy  forms, 
sugared,  and  dipped  in  chocolate. 

Throughout  the  province  of  Orense  ham  is  at  its  best,  the 
hog's  fare  being  almost  exclusively  the  big  rich  chestnuts  of  the 
region.  Other  fine  hams  come  from  Aviles,  Jabuco,  Montachez, 
Trevelez,  and  Villalba. 


154  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

ROAST  KID 

(Cabrito  Asado) 

4  pounds  young  goat  meat  i  teaspoon  thyme 

i  cup  vinegar  i  bay  leaf,  crushed 

2  onions,  minced  i  teaspoon  salt 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  l/2  pound  salt  pork 

Marinate  the  meat  for  several  hours  in  a  pickle  made  with 
a  mixture  of  all  the  ingredients  except  the  salt  pork.  After  5 
hours  remove  the  meat  from  the  pickle,  cut  the  salt  pork  in  thin 
shreds  and  lard  the  meat  well  with  it.  Then  envelop  meat  in 
well-oiled  paper  bag  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake.  After  54 
hour  turn  it  over.  Take  it  out  of  the  paper  to  brown  well, 
and  serve  in  its  own  juices. 

CHICKEN  SPANISH  STYLE 
(Polio  a  la  Espahol) 

1  young  chicken  2  ground  peppercorns 

1  slice  salt  pork  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  flour  6  or  8  boiled  potatoes 

2  cups  tomato  juice  1  cup  green  peas 

Joint  the  chicken  and  dice  the  salt  pork.  Fry  the  pork  in 
a  saucepan  and  brown  the  chicken  in  the  fat.  Stir  in  the  flour 
and  add  the  tomato  juice.  Add  pepper  and  salt  and  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  just  cover  the  chicken.  Cover  closely  and  let 
cook  until  tender. 

Cook  potatoes  and  peas  separately  and  add  to  the  cooked 

chicken.    Let  all  heat  together  for  5  minutes  with  the  cover  off, 

then  serve. 

CHICKEN  WITH  RICE 

(Arroz  con  Polio) 

1  cup  cooked  chick  peas         3  pimentos,  sliced 
lVz  cups  tomatoes  1  onion,  minced 


SPANISH 


!55 


Yz  bay  leaf 

2  cloves 

i  teaspoon  salt 

3  peppercorns,  ground 

54  pound  Spanish  sausage 
(substitute  salami) 


i  good-sized  frying  chicken 

Flour 

3  teaspoons  olive  oil 

i  cup  boiled  rice 

i  dozen  clams 

Stuffed  olives 


Pepper  rings 

Drain  chick  peas  and  place  in  a  deep  kettle.  Add  the 
tomatoes  strained,  the  pimentos,  onion,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  salt 
and  pepper.  Cut  the  sausage  in  ^-inch  slices  and  add  to  the 
mixture.  Let  all  simmer  for  l/2  hour  and  in  the  meantime  joint 
the  chicken.  Salt  it  well,  flour  it  and  brown  well  in  olive  oil, 
then  add  it  to  the  contents  of  the  kettle  together  with  the  rice 
and  a  little  boiling  water.  Simmer  together  for  i  hour,  stirring 
occasionally.  Add  clams,  cut  in  pieces,  and  their  liquor.  Cook 
io  to  15  minutes  longer,  season,  if  necessary,  and  serve  on  a  large 
deep  platter,  well-heated. 

Garnish  with  stuffed  olives  and  rings  of  sweet  pepper. 

Like  so  many  Spanish  dishes,  this  is  a  whole  meal  in  itself. 
It  may  be  made  very  satisfactorily  by  substituting  navy  beans 
for  the  Spanish  peas,  though  it  is  the  latter  that  gives  the  dish 
its  fine  flavor;  and  the  clams  may  be  omitted,  though  they  are 
a  tasty  touch. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN 

(Fricase  de  Polios) 


1  young  chicken 

Salt 

Pepper 

Flour 

1  onion 

2  garlic  cloves 
Fat 


6  stuffed  olives 

1  cup  green  olives 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  tomato  juice 

2  tablespoons  toasted  bread, 

ground  fine 
lA  teaspoon  sage 


156  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Joint  the  chicken,  season  and  dredge  with  flour.  Chop  the 
onion  and  garlic  fine  and  fry  with  the  chicken  in  fat.  When  the 
chicken  is  brown  and  tender  take  up  and  keep  hot.  Pour  off 
all  the  fat  from  the  pan  except  1  tablespoon  and  add  to  it  the 
olives,  both  green  and  stuffed,  and  the  parsley.  Stir  well  to- 
gether and  then  add  the  tomato  juice,  bread  crumbs  and  sage. 
Season  if  necessary.  Simmer  10  minutes,  and  serve  either  in  a 
boat  or  poured  over  the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  VALENCIA  STYLE 

(Polio  a  la  Valenciana) 

1  fowl  Salt 

2  tablespoons  fat  Pepper 

1  onion,  chopped  1  bay  leaf 

2  slices  bacon,  chopped  2  cloves 

Rice,  Valencia  style 

Disjoint  chicken  and  brown  in  fat  with  onion  and  bacon. 
Add  seasonings,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  until 
nearly  done.  Remove  chicken  and  arrange  pieces  in  an  earthen- 
ware casserole.  Add  rice  cooked  Valencia  style;  add  chicken 
liquor  and  cook  until  very  tender. 

RICE  VALENCIA  STYLE 

1  cup  rice  2  dashes  cayenne 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  %  teaspoon  saffron 

1  onion,  minced  1  quart  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  small  lobster 
2  medium  tomatoes                   12  mussels 

Salt  2  pimentos,  chopped 

Wash  rice  through  several  waters  and  dry  thoroughly.  Fry 
garlic  and  onion  slowly  in  the  oil.  Add  uncooked  rice  and  fry 
until  it  begins  to  brown.  Chop  tomatoes,  mix  with  seasonings 
and  add  to  rice.    Continue  frying.    Add  boiling  water  and  boil 


SPANISH       x  157 

rapidly,  uncovered,  for  15  minutes.     Add  chopped  meat  from 
lobster,  mussels  and  pimentos.    Cook  10  minutes. 

GUINEA  HEN 

{Gallinaza  de  Indias) 

Salt  1  grating  nutmeg 

4  peppercorns,  crushed        1  bay  leaf 

1  guinea  hen,  jointed  1  sprig   thyme 

Flour  for  dredging  1  small  stick  cinnamon 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  3  young  turnips 

2  onions  6  small  carrots 
2  cloves  3  parsnips 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  the  pieces  of  fowl  and  dredge  with  flour; 

fry  brown  in  the  oil.    Pierce  each  onion  with  one  clove.    Put 

all  ingredients  together,  except  the  butter,  in  a  deep  sauce  pan. 

Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender. 

Take  up  the  guinea  hen.     Remove  cinnamon,  bay  leaf,  and 

cloves,  and  press  broth  and  vegetables  through  a  sieve.     Add 

butter  to  this  puree.    Put  the  guinea  hen  into  it,  reheat,  and 

serve  very  hot. 

ROAST  TURKEY 

(Favo  As  ado) 

1  (5-  or  6-pound)  young  turkey      %  pound  ham,  sliced  thin 
Salt  and  pepper  %  pound  fat  pork,  sliced  thin 

Thoroughly  clean,  wash  and  season  the  bird,  but  do  not 
stuff  it.  Tie  ham  and  pork  slices  under  and  around  it  with 
thread.  Envelop  it  in  an  oiled  paper  bag  and  place  it  in  the 
baking  pan.  Put  into  the  oven  to  bake,  not  too  fast.  Baste 
frequently  by  turning  it  over  in  the  pan.  When  the  turkey  is 
nearly  done  remove  the  paper,  pork  and  ham  slices  and  finish 
roasting. 


158  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Skim  grease  from  pan  gravy,  and  pour  over  bird  when 
serving. 

In  Spain  all  turkeys  seem  young  and  tender.  They  are 
driven  in  droves  through  the  streets  of  Seville,  and  the  driver 
bargains  with  the  housewife  through  her  open  window  or  door. 

Turkey  is  the  festive  bird,  no  Spanish  Christmas  is  com- 
plete without  it,  although  instead  of  being  eaten  at  noon  it  is 
served  at  about  two  o'clock  Christmas  morning,  after  the  people 
have  returned  from  midnight  mass.  The  feast  usually  begins 
with  wonderful  almond  soup,  for  Jordan  almonds  are  indigenous 
to  Spain,  and  marches  to  the  tune  of  drum-sticks  right  through 
to  nuts,  Malaga  raisins  and  numerous  sweets  and  wines,  enough 
to  last  till  dawn. 

The  gobbler  is  specially  prepared  for  killing  by  having  a  big 
drink  of  old  sherry  forced  down  his  gullet,  enough  to  make  him 
quite  groggy.  This  renders  the  meat  even  more  tender  and 
palatable.  The  turkey  is  then  painlessly  decapitated,  defeathered 
and  hung  in  the  open  air,  preferably  throughout  a  clear  moon- 
light night.  Next  day  he  is  cleaned,  dressed,  washed  out  with 
sound  white  wine,  stuffed  with  chestnuts  and  walnuts,  put  in 
the  oven  and  lovingly  basted  with  a  rich  broth  prepared  well  in 

advance. 

ROAST  QUAIL 

(Codornices  Asadas) 

Quail  Salt  and  pepper 

Celery  sprigs  Bacon  slices 

Grape  leaves 

Season  birds  inside  and  out.  Place  a  celery  sprig  and  the 
bird's  giblets  in  each.  Season,  cover  breasts  with  bacon  slices, 
and  truss  birds.  Wrap  in  grape  leaves  and  tie  with  twine.  (If 
leaves  are  old  and  bitter,  scald  them  in  boiling  water.)  Lay  in 
roasting  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven  (300°  F.) ;  or  roast  on  spit 
before  open  fire. 


SPANISH 


159 


SMALL  GAME  BIRDS,  ROASTED 

(Caza  Menor  Asada) 


Small  birds 

J4  cup  butter  or  olive  oil 

Salt 

6  peppercorns 

2  sprigs  parsley 

1  bay  leaf 


1  clove 

1  onion,  minced 

l/z  garlic  clove,  minced 

Small  fresh  mushrooms 

White  wine 

Bread  browned  in  butter 


Pluck  and  prepare  the  birds.  Pack,  breasts  down,  close  to- 
gether in  a  pan,  with  all  seasonings,  garlic  and  mushrooms.  Pour 
in  white  wine  to  half  the  height  of  the  birds.  Cover  close  and 
simmer  or  bake,  basting,  and  turning  birds  when  half  done. 
Drain  and  keep  hot.  Strain  sauce  and  reduce.  Serve  each  bird, 
with  a  mushroom,  on  a  piece  of  browned  bread.  Pour  sauce 
over,  or  serve  separately  in  a  sauce  boat. 

Wild  birds  are  a  frequent  and  popular  lunch  feature,  and 
all  is  game  that  flies,  from  partridge,  doves  and  quail,  to  the 
smallest  reed  or  song  birds,  the  latter  being  sold  a  dozen  on  a 
string,  each  bird  being  little  more  than  a  mouthful.  Tiny  birds 
are  cooked  entire  with  both  head  and  tail. 

SOUSED  PARTRIDGE 
(Perdiz  de  Escabeche) 

1  pair  partridges  1  bay  leaf 

Salt  2  garlic  cloves,  unpeeled 

4  peppercorns  J4  cup  white  wine  vinegar 

2  cloves  6  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2  sprigs  parsley  Veal  or  chicken  broth 
2  sprigs  celery  Gelatin 

Prepare  birds  and  cut  each  in  5  pieces.  Pack  into  a  sauce  pan 
with  seasonings,  spice,  herbs  and  garlic.  Add  vinegar,  oil  and 
sufficient  boiling  broth  to  cover.     Cook  until  tender.     Drain 


i6o  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

and  lay  in  a  mold  or  deep  platter.  Skim  oil  from  broth,  strain 
through  a  cloth,  and  measure.  Add  gelatin  according  to  instruc- 
tions on  package  for  the  making  of  aspic.  Pour  over  birds,  cool 
and  chill.    Unmold,  and  dress  with  any  desired  garnish. 

YOUNG  RABBIT  WITH  HAM 

(Gazapo  con  Jamon) 

i  pair  young  rabbits  2  slices  bacon,  minced 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

1  teaspoon  pepper  2  bay  leaves,  minced 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Rind  l/z  lemon,  shredded  1  cup  claret 

1  onion,  minced  1  tablespoon  capers 

J4  pound  ham,  minced  Fried  bread 

Clean  the  rabbits,  cut  into  pieces  at  the  joints  and  rub  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Reserve  liver.  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan. 
Add  rabbit  and  let  it  brown  slowly.  When  nearly  brown,  add 
lemon  rind,  onion,  ham,  bacon,  garlic  and  bay  leaves.  Then  stir 
in  flour  and  continue  frying. 

Meanwhile,  cook  rabbit  liver  in  2  cups  water,  mash  together 
and  add  with  the  wine.  Simmer  about  an  hour.  Add  capers. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  fried  squares  of  bread. 

RABBIT  IN  PATAPAR 

(Conejo  Empapelado) 

1  young  rabbit  1  sprig  parsley,  minced 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  green  onions,  chopped  1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  %  pound  sliced  bacon 

Select  a  young  and  fat  rabbit,  clean  and  wash  it  well,  and 
quarter  it.  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  brown  in  it  the  green 
onions,  garlic  and  parsley.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Wrap 
bacon  around  each  quarter  of  the  rabbit  and  place  on  heart- 


SPANISH  161 

shaped  oiled  paper.  Put  %  of  the  seasoning  over  each  rabbit 
portion.  Double  paper  over  like  an  envelope;  crease  edges  to- 
gether in  a  hem  and  secure  with  paper  clips.  Place  in  baking 
pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Without  removing  the  wrap- 
ping papers,  carry  to  the  table  on  a  napkin-covered  plate. 

ROASTED  HARE 

(Liebre  Asada) 

i  young  hare  Hare's  liver  and  heart 

Vinegar  i  scallion,  minced 

Bread  stuffing  Sprig  of  parsley,  minced 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  tablespoon  fresh  butter 

i  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  flour 

i  teaspoon  pepper  2  cups  meat  broth 

1  slice  salt  pork  1  cup  claret 

Clean  the  hare  well,  rub  the  inside  with  vinegar  and  wipe 
dry.  Fill  with  a  simple  bread  stuffing  and  sew  up  the  opening. 
Rub  the  hare  with  seasoned  butter,  lard  it  with  slivers  of  the  salt 
pork  and  put  it  in  the  oven.  It  will  take  about  an  hour  to  bake 
and  should  be  basted  occasionally  with  butter.  Cut  the  liver  and 
heart  into  small  pieces,  combine  with  scallion  and  parsley,  and 
put  all  into  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  fresh  butter.  Blend 
in  flour  and  stir  in  broth  and  wine  gradually.  Cook  until  re- 
duced one-third.    Add  to  the  pan  gravy  of  the  hare,  and  serve. 


SAUCES  AND  GARNISHES 

(Salsas  y  Guarniciones) 


SPANISH  SAUCE 

{Salsa  Espahola) 

4  pounds  beef  bones  5  tablespoons  fat 

4  quarts  boiling  water  1  quart  dry  white  wine 

Salt  3  tablespoons  flour 

Pepper  2  carrots 

Vi  pound  ham  2  onions 

l/i  pound  neck  of  veal  1  young  turnip 

2  garlic  cloves  Herb  bouquet 

Wash  and  scrape  bones  well  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  gently  until  reduced  one- 
half.  Dice  the  ham,  cut  the  veal  in  small  pieces,  mince  the  gar- 
lic and  brown  all  lightly  and  slowly  in  3  tablespoons  of  the  fat, 
being  careful  not  to  let  them  scorch.  Then  drain  oil  the  fat,  add 
the  wine  and  simmer  half  an  hour.  Slightly  brown,  flour,  and 
add  remaining  fat,  stirring  continually.  Add  the  strained  broth 
from  the  bones,  pouring  it  in  slowly  and  steadily  stirring  until  it 
is  all  combined  and  of  a  velvety  quality.  Then  add  the  ham  and 
veal  and  the  wine  they  were  cooked  in,  the  carrots,  onions  and 
turnip,  all  chopped  fine,  and  the  herb  bouquet  (thyme,  parsley 
and  a  bay  leaf,  tied  together).  Keep  the  flame  low,  and  let  the 
contents  of  the  pot  simmer  gently  for  3  hours,  stirring  every  5  or 
10  minutes  until  reduced  to  the  consistency  of  gruel.  Then  strain 
through  a  wire  sieve,  season  if  necessary  and  cook  15  minutes 
longer.  It  is  ready  then  to  remove  and  cool.  This  sauce  will 
keep  a  month  in  the  refrigerator. 

162 


SPANISH  163 

The  Espanola,  favorite  sauce  of  the  Spaniards,  is  the  most 
important:  La  madre  de  todas  las  dames — the  mother  of  all  others. 
It  forms  the  basis  of  all  good  brown  sauces,  its  rich,  exquisite 
flavor  being  due  undoubtedly  to  the  ham  or  bacon  used  in  its  com- 
position and  the  long  cooking  process  the  flour  and  vegetables 
are  subjected  to.    It  is  not  made  in  a  hurry,  but  is  well  worth 

the  trouble. 

ALMOND  SAUCE 

{Salsa  Nogado) 

20  blanched  almonds  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  fried 

1  garlic  clove  1  tablespoon  vinegar 
Olive  oil  1  tablespoon  water 

Pound  the  almonds  and  garlic  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar.  With 
the  pestle  work  in  sufficient  oil  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Wet 
the  fried  bread  crumbs  with  vinegar  and  water  and  work  well 
into  the  paste.  Then  add  just  enough  water  to  make  it  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream. 

Served  with  all  fried  fish  and  cooked  beans,  fresh  or  dry. 

SAUCE  FOR  GRILLED  FISH 

(Salsa  Para  P  esc  ado  en  P  aril  las) 

2  tablespoons  butter  l/2  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Yi  teaspoon  mustard           Salt  and  pepper 

Minced  tarragon  or  parsley 

Simmer  in  a  little  saucepan,  without  boiling,  the  butter, 
mustard,  and  lemon  juice  until  smooth.  Then  add  seasonings,  a 
little  tarragon  and  serve  with  grilled  fish. 

HARD-BOILED  EGG  SAUCE 

(Salsa  de  Huevo  Duro) 

1  hard-boiled  egg  yolk  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  vinegar 


164  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Put  the  egg  yolk  in  a  bowl  and  mash  it.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  add,  little  by  little,  the  oil,  mustard  and  vinegar. 
Beat  until  smooth. 

Serve  with  salad  or  fish. 

A  GENERAL  SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  FISH 

{Sals  as  As  ado  al  Homo) 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  Salt 

i  tablespoon  olive  oil  *4  teaspoon  minced  marjoram 

i  cup  tomato  puree  2  peppercorns,  ground 

2  tablespoons  toasted  crumbs  V2  cup  dry  white  wine 

Fry  the  garlic  in  the  oil,  and  add  other  ingredients.  Mix 
thoroughly,  heat  well  and  serve  with  baked  fish. 

CREAM  SAUCE 
{Salsa  de  Crema) 

l/2  cup  butter  2  cups  cream,  or  milk 

Sprig  of  parsley,  minced  Salt 

1  onion,  minced  Nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  teaspoon  pepper  sauce 

Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Put  in  the  parsley  and  onion. 
Fry  gently  until  the  onion  is  a  delicate  brown,  then  stir  in  the 
flour  and  gradually  add  the  cream  or  milk.  Season  with  salt, 
a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  the  pepper  sauce.  Cook  gently  15  min- 
utes. 

An  excellent  sauce  for  codfish  or  potatoes. 

FISH  SAUCE 

{Salsa  Para  Pescados) 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  2  cups  boiling  water,  or  fish 

2  tablespoons  butter  broth 

1  cup  chopped  mushrooms  2  tablespoons   capers 

2  teaspoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper 


SPANISH  165 

Heat  olive  oil  in  saucepan  until  it  smokes.  Cool  a  little  and 
add  the  butter,  then  the  mushrooms  and  simmer  gently  until  ten- 
der. Stir  in  the  flour  and  cook  slowly  for  10  minutes.  Add  the 
boiling  broth  gradually.    Put  in  the  capers,  season  to  taste  and 

serve. 

SAUCE  FOR  OMELET 

(Salsa  Para  Tortilla  de  Huevos) 

1  pint  consomme  1  tablespoon  catsup 

1  tablespoon  butter  l/2  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  Pepper 

sauce  1  tablespoon  sherry 

Boil  consomme  until  reduced  one-half.  Melt  butter,  add 
flour,  then  consomme,  stirring  continually  while  the  sauce  cooks 
10  minutes.  Then  add  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  catsup  and 
onion  juice.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  from 
fire,  add  the  sherry  and  pour  over  omelet. 

SPECIAL  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 

(Salsa  Especial) 

1  large  sweet  onion  1  cup  white  wine 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  Spanish  sauce 

Slice  the  onion  thin  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  in  the  butter. 
Add  wine,  and  cook  until  onion  is  tender  and  the  liquid  reduced 
two-thirds.  Then  add  the  Spanish  sauce  and  cook  10  minutes 
before  serving. 

SAUCE  OF  CATALAN 
(Salsa  de  Catalana) 

2  shallots  iYi  cups  Spanish  sauce 

5  chestnuts,  blanched  and  peeled 

Mince  the  shallots  fine  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  the  Span- 
ish sauce.     Cook  for  20  minutes  and  add  the  chestnuts,  sliced 


166  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

thin.     Simmer,  taking  care  that  chestnut  slices  remain  whole. 
Serve  hot,  with  meat  or  fowl. 

OLIVE  SAUCE 

{Salsa  de  Aceitunas) 

i  cup  black  olives  i  tablespoon  ham  or  bacon  fat 

i  cup  beef  juice  J4  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper 

Wash  the  olives  well,  remove  the  pits  and  mince  fine.  Mix 
them  with  the  beef  juice,  ham  fat  and  seasonings.  Cook  over  a 
low  flame  for  5  minutes,  and  serve. 

Fine  with  roast  beef. 

SAUCE  TO  ACCOMPANY  A  STEW 

(Salsa  Para  el  Cocido) 

1  small  onion  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Sprig  of  parsley  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

l/i  sweet  pepper  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Chop  onion,  parsley  and  pepper  and  mix  with  the  oil,  vinegar 
and  salt.    Serve  in  sauce  boat. 

This  recipe  is  multiplied  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  de- 
sired. 

RADISH  SAUCE 

(Salsa  de  Rdbanos) 

1  cup  light  cream  %  cup  grated  radish  (large,  white, 

sharp-flavored  variety) 

Bring  the  cream  slowly  to  a  boil  and  add  the  grated  radish. 
Stir  well  and  serve  at  once  on  top  of  a  meat  roast. 
Excellent  with  saddle  of  mutton. 


SPANISH  167 

PIQUANT  SAUCE 

{Salsa  Picante) 

1  teaspoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  flour  2  sweet  peppers,  minced 

%  cup  beef  broth  l/2  teaspoon  each  minced 

%  cup  vinegar  parsley  and  tarragon 

Y2  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan;  add  flour,  and  when  it  browns  add 
the  broth  slowly  and  then  the  vinegar,  stirring  the  sauce  smooth. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes,  until 
the  raw  taste  of  the  flour  disappears.  Add  the  peppers,  the 
parsley,  tarragon  and  lemon  juice,  and  take  from  fire. 

Serve  with  roast  beef,  mutton,  or  game. 

BROWN  SAUCE 
(Salsa  Rubid) 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  cups   richly   seasoned 

1  tablespoon  fat  of  cooked  fowl,  broth 

beef  or  mutton 

Brown  flour  in  the  fat,  not  too  dark,  and  add  the  broth 
slowly.    Cook  5  minutes. 

Serve  with  poultry  or  meat. 

SAUCE  FOR  ROASTED  BIRDS,  PIGEONS,  ETC. 

(Salsa  para  Aves  Asadas) 

3  shallots,  minced  l/2  cup  Spanish  sauce 

1  quart  white  wine  Pepper 

Cook  shallots  gently  in  wine  until  liquid  is  reduced  one-third. 
Add  Spanish  sauce  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  longer.  Pepper 
well  and  serve. 


168  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH  RABBIT 
{Salsa  Para  Liebre) 

i  tablespoon  sweet  butter  3  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  tablespoon  flour  Rabbit  liver 

2  slices  bacon,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed  %  cup  vinegar 

il/2  cups  water 

Melt  butter  and  add  flour.  Stir  over  low  flame  until  delicate 
brown.  Add  bacon,  garlic,  and  the  tomatoes.  Stir  the  sauce  and 
cook  slowly.  Broil  the  rabbit  liver,  mash  it  and  add  to  the  sauce. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  vinegar  and  water,  and 
allow  the  sauce  to  simmer  1  hour,  then  strain. 

The  Spanish  cook  saves  the  blood  of  the  rabbit  and  mixes  a 
little  vinegar  with  it  to  prevent  it  from  coagulating.  It  is  then 
strained  and  added  gradually  to  the  sauce  just  before  serving. 

WHITE  SAUCE 
(Salsa  Blanco) 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  white  wine 

2  peppercorns,  ground  3  tablespoons  butter,  melted 
l/2  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

Y3  cup  chicken  or  veal  broth      Juice  of  1  lemon 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  flour.  Season.  Add  broth  and 
wine.  Simmer  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Beat  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter  with  the  egg  yolks  and  lemon  juice.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  to  egg  mixture.  Finish  cooking  in  dou- 
ble boiler.    Serve  at  once  with  vegetables  or  white  meat. 

GREEN  SAUCE 
(Salsa  Verde) 

2  cups  chopped  spinach  1  sprig  parsley,  minced 

1  cup  chopped  watercress        1  sprig  chevril,  minced 

2  tarragon  leaves,  minced        54  CUP  salted  boiling  water 

1  cup  mayonnaise 


SPANISH  169 

Cook  the  greens,  closely  covered,  in  their  own  juices,  for  5 
minutes.  Drain  well,  mash  thoroughly  and  add  the  salted  boil- 
ing water,  making  a  thick  puree.  Pass  through  a  fine  wire  sieve 
and  whip  into  the  mayonnaise. 

SAUCE  TO  ACCOMPANY  FRESH  KIDNEY  BEANS 

{Salsa  Para  Judias  Verdes) 

1  clove  of  garlic  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  sweet  pepper  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  cooked  tomato  l/z  teaspoon  saffron 

1  large  cooked  potato  2  tablespoons  beef  broth 

Yi  cup  cooked  squash  Salt  and  pepper 

Put  the  garlic  and  pepper  through  the  meat  grinder.  Strain 
the  tomato,  mash  the  potato  and  squash.  Put  all  of  the  ingredi- 
ents together  and  mix  thoroughly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  in  a  sauce  boat. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  1 
{Salsa  de  Tomates  No.  1) 

1  slice  ham  or  salt  pork  1  bay  leaf,  minced 

1  tablespoon  fat  12  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  onion,  minced  1  pint  beef  broth 

2  carrots,  minced  1  tablespoon  flour 

Put  ham  or  pork  through  the  meat  grinder  and  fry  in  lard  a 
few  minutes.  Add  the  garlic,  onion,  carrots  and  bay  leaf.  Stir 
into  the  fat  until  all  are  a  light  brown.  Crush  tomatoes  with  a 
wooden  spoon  into  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Stir  well  and  season. 
Cover  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  juice  of  the  tomatoes 
thickens.  Then  add  broth  and  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
cook  10  minutes  longer  and  strain. 


170  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  2 

(Salsa  de  Totnates  No.  2) 

1  garlic  clove  1  teaspoon  marjoram 

3  large  tomatoes,  peeled  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  cumin  seeds  2  peppercorns,  ground 

(or  anise  or  caraway)  Vinegar 
Water 

Rub  inside  of  a  salad  bowl  with  garlic.  Dice  tomatoes  and 
place  in  bowl.  Add  cumin,  marjoram,  salt  and  pepper.  Barely 
cover  with  equal  amounts  of  vinegar  and  water. 

Serve  with  boiled  beef. 

GARNISH  FOR  VEAL  OR  MUTTON 

(Guarnicion  Para  Ternero  o  Carrier o) 

Sliced  onions  and  sliced  potatoes,  fried  separately  in  olive  oil 
or  lard,  well  seasoned,  often  accompany  veal  or  mutton. 

Or  a  thick  puree  of  dried  beans  surrounding  tender  young 
artichokes  fried  in  butter;  little  clusters  of  cauliflowers  that  have 
been  dipped  in  a  tart  sauce;  and  small  potatoes,  browned  in  but- 
ter and  powdered  with  bits  of  parsley;  all  of  these  are  excellent 
accompaniments  to  either  dish. 

GARNISH  FOR  FOWLS 

(Guarnicion  Para  Polios) 

Cut  salt  pork  in  thin  strips,  fry  in  butter  to  a  golden  crisp 
and  dust  with  a  little  powdered  sugar.  Mold  acidulated,  boiled 
onions  in  gelatine.  Cut  mushrooms  in  half  and  fry  in  butter. 
To  garnish  roast  chicken  or  pigeons. 

GARNISH  FOR  BIRDS 
(Guarnicion  Para  Aves) 

Decorate  with  large  fancy  olives,  tiny  glazed  onions  and  rings 
of  uncooked  sweet  peppers. 


SPANISH  171 

Black,  gray,  yellow,  purple,  mauve  and  green  olives,  some 
small  as  cherries,  others  big  as  plums,  plain,  salted,  pickled  or 
bursting  with  rich  stuffing,  are  sold  by  weight  from  jars  and  tubs 
in  the  markets  and  at  the  food  shops.  Like  old-fashioned  pickles 
here  at  home,  olives  are  put  up  according  to  a  thousand  private 
recipes.  A  favorite  method  of  pickling  the  large  varieties  is  to 
slash  the  flesh  and  insert  bits  of  highly  flavored  filling  before 
immersing  in  the  pickling  liquid,  which  may  be  manzanilla  or 
other  white  wine,  wine  vinegar  or  Asturian  cider  vinegar.  All 
varieties  are  more  tasty  than  California  "queens"  and  in  some 
cases  this  is  because  of  the  clever  gashings,  gorings  and  stuffings 
that  carry  the  seasonings  right  into  the  pit.  These  olives  are 
stoned  and  twisted  into  appetizing  bonne-bouches  to  accompany 
many  meat  dishes.  The  Spanish  cook  also  uses  them  generously 
in  the  making  of  stews  and  ragouts.  A  meal  without  olives  in 
some  form  is  not  to  be  found  in  all  Spain. 

GARNISH  OF  ARTICHOKES 

{Guarnicion  de  Alcachofas) 

Fry  artichokes  previously  boiled.  Cut  in  half,  and  place  in  a 
circle  on  a  hot  serving  plate,  alternately  with  cooked  asparagus 
tips  dipped  in  butter.  Pile  in  the  center  small  potatoes  roasted 
brown,  and  serve  with  salsa  verde. 

GARNISH  FOR  BROILED  MEATS 

{Guarnicion  Valenciano) 

Surround  with  fried  eggplant,  tomatoes  or  onions. 

Fried  Eggplant:  Cut  into  J4-inch  slices.  Make  a  batter  with 
flour  and  1  egg.  Season  the  slices  of  eggplant  well  and  soak  in 
the  batter.  Lift  out  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  When  brown,  turn 
and  fry  the  other  side.    Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Fried  Tomatoes:  Slice  very  thin  and  season.  Dip  slices  in 
beaten  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.    Turn  care- 


172  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

fully  with  a  cake  turner;  pile  on  a  heated  plate,  and  serve  very 

hot. 

Fried  Onions :  Slice  and  cover  them  with  milk  for  5  minutes, 

drain  and  lay  in  sifted  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  fat  for  about  10 

minutes. 

GARNISH  FOR  ROASTS 

{Guarnicion  Madrilend) 

Cut  large  round  tomatoes  in  halves  and  scoop  out  a  small 
hollow  in  each  center.  For  each  half  of  a  tomato  fry  ^4  clove 
garlic  in  1  teaspoon  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place 
in  the  tomato.  Lay  on  top  of  it  a  large  black  olive,  circled  with 
an  anchovy  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  to  bake.  Pile  a  pyramid  of 
fried  potatoes  in  the  center  of  the  serving  dish  and  edge  with  the 
tomato  halves. 

GARNISH  FOR  FOWL 
{Guarnicion  Catalonia) 

Glaze  onions,  crisp  chitterlings,  and  season  cooked  macaroni 
with  the  juice  of  the  meat.  And  in  summer  a  dish  of  cooked 
carrots,  molded  in  gelatine  with  pitted  black  olives,  may  be  passed 
for  full  measure. 

GARNISH  FOR  FRIED  FISH 

{Guarnicion  Andaluza) 

Cut  in  half  and  broil  a  number  of  sweet  green  peppers.  Re- 
move skins  and  cores  and  cover  nicely  a  dish  of  well-seasoned 
boiled  rice.    Serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 


VEGETABLES 

(Legumbres) 


ASPARAGUS  ANDALUSIAN  STYLE 

(Esparrago  de  Mo  do  Andalusia) 

i  bunches  asparagus  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Salt  Pepper 

2  sweet  red  peppers  6  eggs 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Cook  asparagus  in  slightly  salted  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Roast  peppers  on  top  of  stove  or  under  grill  until  the  skins  and 
core  can  be  easily  removed.  Fry  garlic  with  the  peppers  in  the 
oil  until  tender,  then  mash  into  the  oil,  add  pepper  and  a  table- 
spoon of  the  asparagus  water.  Pass  through  a  sieve.  Take  out 
the  asparagus  when  tender,  drain  and  put  on  a  hot  platter.  Cover 
with  the  sauce  and  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  the  hot  asparagus 
water  to  poach.  Remove  when  set  and  place  on  the  platter  with 
the  asparagus.    Season  and  sprinkle  with  drops  of  vinegar. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  SAUCE 
(Esparragos  en  Salsa) 

1  large  bunch  asparagus  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
Salt  2  teaspoons  beef  extract 

2  tablespoons   butter  1  cup  hot  water 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

Cook  asparagus  in  salted  boiling  water.  Take  out,  drain  and 
put  into  a  serving  dish  with  bits  of  butter  strewn  over  it. 

In  a  saucepan  mix  parsley  and  beef  extract  dissolved  in  hot 

i73 


174  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

water.    Let  it  boil  up  once,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  the 
beaten  yolks.    Serve  over  the  asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  BUTTER 
(Esparragos  en  Manteca) 

i  bunch  asparagus  54  teaspoon  each,  cinnamon, 

Boiling  salted  water  saffron 

3  tablespoons  butter  i.  sprig  parsley 

54  teaspoon   cloves  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 

Wash  asparagus  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cook  until  tender 
in  boiling,  salted  water.  In  a  casserole,  combine  butter,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  saffron,  parsley  and  hard-boiled  egg  slices.  Season 
if  necessary  and  heat  thoroughly.  Add  cooked  and  drained  as- 
paragus.   Shake  casserole  to  thoroughly  cover  with  sauce.    Serve. 

QUILTED  CAULIFLOWER 

(Estofado  de  Coliflor) 

1  good-sized  cauliflower  l/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  quart  seasoned  meat  broth  3  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  the  cauliflower  in  broth  with  nutmeg.  Drain,  and 
cover  generously  with  butter.  The  Spanish  cook  uses  the  broth 
of  a  cocido. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER 
(Coliflor  Frit  a) 

1  cauliflower  2  tablespoons  water 

1  teaspoon   salt  2  tablespoons  crumbs 

Pepper  2  tablespoons  oil  or  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour  Juice  1  lemon 

Cut  off  the  stem  of  a  cauliflower  very  close,  wash  in  cold 
water,  then  soak,  with  the  head  downwards,  about  15  minutes, 
to  rid  it  of  any  possible  insects.  Put  the  cauliflower  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  with  the  stem-end  down.     Add  salt  and  cover. 


SPANISH  175 


Cook  until  tender.    Take  out  and  cut  apart  into  clusters.    Season 

with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  into  a  thin  paste  made  of 

flour,  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt.    Sprinkle  with  crumbs.    Have 

hot  oil  or  butter  in  a  casserole  and  fry  the  clusters  of  cauliflower 

in  it.    Drain  on  brown  paper,  serve  hot  and  pass  lemon  juice 

with  them. 

GREEN  BEANS 

(Judias  Verdes) 

1  pint  green  lima  beans  2  peppercorns,  crushed 

1  quart  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  1  grating  nutmeg 


Boil  fresh  lima  beans  until  tender.  Drain,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  put  in  a  hot  covered  serving  dish  with  butter, 
nutmeg  and  minced  parsley.  Shake  the  dish  until  each  bean  is 
buttered  and  serve.  Tarragon  may  be  used  instead  of  parsley 
and  with  it  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Also  a  sauce  made  with  fried  onions  and  tomatoes,  seasoned, 

and  put  through  a  colander,  is  often  mixed  with  the  buttered 

beans. 

CELERY  IN  SAUCE 

(Apio  en  Salsa) 

1  bunch  celery  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  meat  broth 
1  onion,  chopped  1  tablespoon  flour 
1  garlic  clove,  minced  Yi  cup  sherry 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  1  egg,  beaten 

Cut  celery  stalks  into  2-3  inch  lengths,  discarding  leaves. 
Melt  butter  and  slowly  fry  onion  and  garlic  until  golden.  Add 
celery,  salt  and  pepper,  broth  and  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Cook  until  tender.  Drain  celery  and  keep  hot.  Strain  liquid, 
and  reduce  to  iy2  cup.    Add  flour  worked  smooth  in  a  little 


1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  \ 


176  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

water;  boil  5  minutes.    Add  sherry,  beat  to  boiling;  stir  in  the 
egg;  pour  over  celery  and  serve  hot. 

PEAS  WITH  HAM 
(Guis  antes  con  ]amori) 

1  slice  ham,  shredded  1  quart  green  peas 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  head  lettuce,  halved 

2  cups  meat  broth  1  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  and  pepper 

Saute  ham  in  2  tablespoons  butter  without  browning.  Add  1 
cup  broth  (may  be  made  with  boiling  water  and  a  little  beef 
extract)  the  young  peas,  and  lettuce.  Cover  and  simmer  over 
slow  heat  until  peas  are  tender.  Make  a  roux  with  the  flour  and 
remaining  butter  and  stir  in  second  cup  of  broth.  Stir  well,  cook 
5  minutes  and  add  to  peas.    Season  to  taste. 

STUFFING  FOR  VEGETABLES 
(Relleno  Para  Vegetals) 

The  Spaniards  are  clever  at  stuffing  vegetables,  but  there  is 
no  set  rule  for  the  proportions  used  in  making  the  forcemeat. 
Various  selections  of  minced  ham,  hashed  meats,  and  bits  of  sau- 
sage, with  seasonings  such  as  minced  parsley,  garlic,  lemon  juice, 
cinnamon,  saffron,  pepper  sauce,  and  grated  bread  crumbs  mixed 
with  eggs  to  hold  all  together,  serve  for  sweet  peppers,  potatoes, 
tomatoes,  onions,  eggplant,  cucumbers  and  squash. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 
(Pimentos  Est  of  ados) 

6  sweet  peppers  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Salt  Sifted  crumbs 

6  tablespoons  cheese,  grated         Butter 

%  cup  ham,  minced  1  quart  tomato  juice,  strained 

Paprika  2  tablespoons  onion,  chopped 

1  pimento,  chopped 


SPANISH  177 

Slit  the  peppers  on  one  side,  but  leave  the  stems  intact  and 
carefully  take  out  the  seeds  and  cores.  Cook  in  salted  boiling 
water,  then  drain,  and  remove  the  skins.  Stuff  each  with  1 
tablespoon  of  grated  cheese  to  two  of  minced  ham,  season  lightly 
with  salt  and  paprika,  mixed  half  and  half.  Roll  them  in  beaten 
egg  and  fine,  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Dip  again  in  egg  and  in 
bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  butter.  Prepare  a  sauce  with  tomato  juice, 
chopped  onion  and  pimento.  Have  this  simmering  while  you 
fry  the  peppers.  Fry  till  a  light  brown.  Put  them  into  the 
tomato  mixture,  season  to  taste  and  simmer  for  Y/z  hour  before 
serving. 

FRIED  STUFFED  ARTICHOKES 
(Alcachofas  Rellenas  Fritas) 

6  artichokes  Juice  1  lemon 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  tablespoon  butter 

Water  1  cup  crumbs,  toasted 

Salt  1  cup  minced  cooked  ham 

1  gariic  clove,  crushed  !/2  cup  white  wine 

Select  6  artichokes  of  uniform  size.  Cut  the  stalks  close  and 
remove  some  of  the  tough  bottom  leaves.  Soak  in  cold,  acidu- 
lated water  for  an  hour.  Drain,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water 
and  add  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  the  lemon  juice,  and  butter. 
Cook  artichokes  until  a  leaf  can  be  easily  pulled  out.  Remove 
from  water  and  turn  upside  down  to  drain.  Spread  the  outer 
leaves  of  the  artichoke  apart  and  remove  the  chokes,  the  fuzzy 
portion  in  the  center.  Make  a  stuffing  with  bread  crumbs  and 
minced  ham.  Moisten  with  white  wine.  Stuff  the  centers  of  the 
artichokes  and  the  spaces  between  the  leaves.  Fasten  a  piece  of 
muslin  around  each  to  hold  the  stuffing  in  and  fry  10  minutes  in 
deep  fat.    Serve  hot. 


178  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

FROSTED  ARTICHOKES 

(Alcachofas  Escardiadas) 

6  young   artichokes  1  onion,  minced 

1  teaspoon  butter  l/2  cup  beef  broth 

6  thin  slices  bacon  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Cut  off  the  tops  of  the  outer  leaves  of  the  artichokes  and  cook 

in  boiling  salted  water.    Drain  and  place  in  a  buttered  saucepan. 

In  a  frying  pan  fry  bacon  to  a  crisp.    Remove  and  discard  all  but 

2  tablespoons  of  the  fat  and  fry  the  onion.    Crush  bacon  and  lay 

it  on  the  cooked  artichokes.    Add  broth  to  the  fried  onion.    Heat 

and  pour  over  the  bacon.     Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 

bake  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  for  the  artichokes  to  absorb 

the  liquid. 

n  SPANISH  BEANS 

(Habas  Espanas) 

3  cups  dried  lima  beans  Y2  bay  leaf 

3  pints  boiling  water  2  cupfuls  tomatoes,  chopped 

*4  pound  bacon  Salt  and  pepper 

2  green  peppers,  shredded       1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar 
1  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Wash  and  soak  the  beans  over  night.  Then  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  till  nearly  tender,  about  13/2  hours.  Fry 
bacon  crisp,  remove  it  from  the  pan,  pour  off  all  but  2  tablespoons 
of  fat  and  fry  the  green  peppers.  When  they  are  tender,  but  not 
browned,  add  the  beans,  bay  leaf  and  tomatoes.  Cover  well  and 
leave  on  a  low  flame  for  45  minutes.  Then  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  add  the  sugar.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  well 
sprinkled  with  a  cupful  of  grated  Parmesan.  Reheat  the  crisp 
bacon  and  lay  around  the  edge. 


SPANISH  179 

POTATO  PUDDING 

(Pudin  de  Patatas) 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes  1  tablespoon  hot  milk 

Salt  1  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 

2  teaspoons  meat  juice  cheese 

1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

Beat  mashed  potatoes  with  salt,  meat  juice,  butter  and  hot 

milk  together.    Pile  lightly  into  a  hot  serving  dish,  powder  with 

the  cheese  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.    Serve  hot  with  a  meat 

course. 

POTATOES  IN  WINE 

(Patatas  con  Vino) 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  pinch  pepper 

1  onion,  minced  3  cups  diced   uncooked  potatoes 

1  cup  white  wine  x/%  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  beef  broth 

Heat  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  brown  onion.  Add  wine  and 
pepper,  then  potatoes  and  salt.  Shake  pan  until  potatoes  are  hot 
and  well  basted.  Add  broth,  cover  and  cook  until  tender  and  all 
the  liquid  is  absorbed. 

POTATO  CAKES  IN  SAUCE 
(Tortilla  Guisada) 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes  1  sprig  parsley 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  tomato,  chopped 

Butter  Y2  cup  meat  broth 

1  small   onion,   sliced  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  seasoned  mashed  potatoes  with  eggs.  Shape  into 
thick  cakes  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  butter.  In  another  pan, 
melt  1  tablespoon  butter  and  fry  the  onion  and  parsley.  When 
tender,  add  tomato  and  continue  frying.    Add  broth  and  season 


i8o  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

with  salt  and  pepper.    Put  potato  cakes  in  the  sauce  and  cook 
slowly  until  all  liquid  is  absorbed. 

POTATO  BALLS 

(Bunuelos  de  Patatas) 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes         i  tablespoon  granulated  sugar 
2  egg  yolks,  beaten  l/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

i  eggf  beaten  i  teaspoon  lemon  rind,  grated 

Deep  fat 

Beat  seasoned  mashed  potatoes  and  eggs  together,  adding 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Form  into  balls  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CAKE 
(Galletas  de  Patatas) 

i  pound  potatoes  5  eggs 

2  tablespoons  almond  meal  1%  cups  granulated  sugar 

Cook,  drain,  and  beat  the  potatoes  very  light  with  a  wooden 
fork  and  whip  in  the  other  ingredients.  Place  in  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown. 

SMOTHERED    PARSNIPS 

(Chirivias  Suffocado) 

4  parsnips  %  cup  granulated  sugar 

Salt  3  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  parsnips  until  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain.  Cut  in 
rather  thin  slices  and  put  into  a  hot  covered  saucepan,  with  sugar 
and  butter.  Shake  the  dish  over  a  low  flame  until  the  sugar  and 
butter  melt  and  the  parsnips  are  well  covered. 


SPANISH  181 

RICE  WITH  VEGETABLES 

(Arroz  con  Vegetals) 

l/2  pound  salt  pork,  sliced  2  turnips,  sliced 

1  pig's  hock  1  onion,  sliced 

*4  cup  rice  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

1  pint  fresh  kidney  beans  %  cup  minced  cooked  ham 

or  soaked  chick  peas  or  sausage  meat 

2  potatoes,  sliced  Salt  and  pepper 

Place  pork  slices  in  a  deep  kettle  with  the  pig's  hock.  Add 
rice  and  the  beans  or  chick  peas.  Cover  deep  with  water  and 
cook  slowly,  until  hock  is  tender.  Take  out  the  hock  and  remove 
the  bone.  Cut  the  meat  in  pieces  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Add 
potatoes,  turnips,  onion,  garlic  and  ham.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Cook  20  minutes,  then  turn  the  contents  of  the  pot  into  a 
large  casserole  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  (4000  F.)  until  browned, 
but  not  too  dry. 

This  is  a  favorite  luncheon  dish  in  the  Province  of  Valencia. 

RICE  CATALAN  STYLE 
(Arroz  a  Catalan) 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  sausage  meat 
2  onions,  minced  x/z  pound  rice 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  quart  boiling  water 

2  tomatoes,  chopped  Red  pepper  rings 
1  slice  ham,  diced  Parsley  sprigs 

Place  oil  in  a  saucepan  and  slowly  fry  onions  and  garlic,  then 
add  the  tomatoes.  When  the  mixture  bubbles,  add  ham  and 
sausage.  Add  rice  and  boiling  water;  cook  until  the  rice  is 
tender.  Then  take  from  fire,  turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  place 
in  the  oven  until  the  rice  is  sufficiently  dry.  Garnish  with  sweet 
red  pepper  rings  and  parsley,  and  serve. 


182  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

RICE  WITH  TRIMMINGS 

(Arroz  a  Banda) 

il/2  pounds  fish  l/2  teaspoon  saffron 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  l/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

i  sprig  parsley,  minced  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  tomatoes,  sliced  Juice  1  lemon 

2  sweet  peppers,  sliced  %  cup  rice 

Put  fish  in  a  kettle  with  garlic,  parsley,  tomatoes  and  peppers, 
saffron,  cinnamon,  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice.  Simmer  over  the 
fire  with  enough  water  to  cover  well.  When  fish  is  done,  remove 
it  and  keep  hot  over  steam.  Strain  the  broth.  Cook  rice  in  the 
broth  and  serve  around  the  fish. 

MACARONI  IN  SAUCE 
(Macarrones  al  Jugo) 

1  pound  macaroni  %  pound  cooked  ham 

2%  quarts  boiling  water         1  sprig  parsley,  minced 
Salt  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

!/4  pound  cooked  beef  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yz  cup  tomato  paste 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  for  15  minutes, 
then  drain.  Plunge  it  into  cold  water  and  drain  again.  Mince 
the  meats,  add  parsley  and  garlic  and  saute  all  in  butter  10  min- 
utes. Add  tomato  paste  and  J/2  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  well. 
Cook  15  minutes  and  mix  in  the  drained  macaroni,  tossing  it  in 
the  sauce  until  it  is  hot,  then  serve. 

SPANISH  MACARONI 
{Macarrones  Espahol) 

*4  cup  chopped  mushrooms        2  cups  canned  tomatoes 

1  cup  chopped  onions  1  cup  cheese,  grated 

1  tablespoon  butter  il/2  cups  macaroni,  cooked 


SPANISH  183 

54  cup  ripe  olives  %  cup  chopped  pimentos 

%  cup  chopped  sweet  peppers    1  teaspoon  salt 
3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 

Cook  mushrooms  and  onions  in  butter.  Add  tomatoes,  part 
of  cheese,  macaroni,  ripe  olives,  peppers,  pimentos,  and  salt.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  remaining  cheese.  Make  top  layer  of  cheese.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  (350°F.),  15  to  20  minutes. 

TIMBALE  OF  MACARONI 

(Timbal  de  Macarrones) 

J4  pound  macaroni  1  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  1  cup  macaroni  water 

3  tablespoons  butter  l/2  cup  tomato  paste 

1  tablespoon  chopped  mush-        6  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
rooms  cheese 

Break  the  macaroni  into  short  lengths,  cook  15  minutes  in 
boiling  salted  water,  drain  and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Melt  butter, 
add  chopped  mushrooms,  cook  2  or  3  minutes  and  stir  in  the 
flour.  Add  1  cup  of  the  macaroni  water  and  the  tomato  paste. 
Season  to  taste.  Pour  over  macaroni.  Stir  well  and  add  the 
cheese.    Bake  for  10  minutes  and  serve  very  hot. 

STUFFED  MACARONI 

{Macarrones  a  la  Sausond) 

%  pound  macaroni  Butter 

Minced  meat  Toasted  crumbs 

Salt  Tomato  juice 

Choose  macaroni  large  as  a  finger,  and  break  in  3-inch 
lengths.  Stuff  each  piece  with  some  finely  minced  meat  (ham, 
veal,  or  the  breast  of  chicken),  and  place  carefully  in  a  saucepan. 
Just  cover  with  salted  boiling  water  and  cook  6  to  8  minutes. 


184  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Then  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  put  a  layer  of  the  macaroni 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Baste  generously  with  melted  but- 
ter, put  bits  of  butter  between  the  pieces,  and  strew  over  the 
macaroni  toasted  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  moistened  with 
tomato  juice.  Repeat  with  successive  layers;  reduce  the  water 
the  macaroni  was  cooked  in,  and  pour  into  the  dish.  Bake  10 
minutes  and  serve. 

MACARONI  FOR  FESTIVALS 

{Macarrones  de  Vigilia  a  Divertideos) 

i  pound  macaroni  Salt 

Tomato  sauce  Pepper 

6  eggs  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  6  to  8  minutes.  Take 
from  fire,  drain  and  mix  with  tomato  sauce  (see  recipe)  until 
well  covered.  Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  6  eggs. 
Combine  and  season.  Place  a  layer  of  the  macaroni  in  a  baking 
dish  and  cover  with  some  of  the  beaten  eggs  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Continue  the  layers  until  the  macaroni  and  beaten  eggs 
are  all  used.  Sprinkle  cheese  on  the  last  layer.  Cook  a  few  mo- 
ments in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  and  serve. 

MACARONI  PANCAKES 

{Tortilla  con  Macarrones) 

%  pound  macaroni  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

1  quart  boiling  water  3  eggs,  beaten 

Salt  Cooking  oil 

Break  macaroni  into  i-inch  pieces,  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  15  minutes  and  drain.  Then  sprinkle  well  with  cheese, 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mix  with  eggs.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
an  oiled  hot  griddle  and  fry  like  pancakes. 


SPANISH  185 

GAZPADEO 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  Y2  onion,  sliced 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

3  slices  bread  %  cup  olive  oil 
2  green  peppers  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  vinegar  and  water.  Cut  bread  in  finger  slices  and  toast. 
Dip  quickly  in  thinned  vinegar  and  drain.  Have  peppers  roasted 
and  skinned,  then  sliced.  Fry  onion,  garlic,  and  peppers  in  oil, 
season,  and  push  to  one  side  of  pan.  Fry  toast  fingers  on  both 
sides  in  remaining  oil,  pile  vegetables  on  top  of  them,  and  serve 
as  a  garnish  with  meat.    Butter  may  be  substituted  for  the  oil. 

GAZPACHO 

Gazpacho  is  prepared  as  above,  except  that  the  bread,  instead 
of  being  toasted,  is  merely  crumbled,  and  fried  in  the  oil,  then 
mixed  with  the  vegetables  and  thinned  vinegar. 

FRIED  BREAD  WITH  GARLIC 
(Pan  Fritura  con  A  jo) 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  3  tablespoons  water 

8  bread  fingers  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar 

%  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Fry  garlic  lightly  in  oil;  add  bread  fingers  and  fry.  Mix 
vinegar  and  water  with  sugar  and  reduce  to  thin  syrup;  add 
parsley  and  pour  over  the  fried  bread. 

FRIED  BREAD 
(Torrijas  de  Pan) 

1  small  loaf  stale  bread  cut  in  3  cups  water 

slices  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

Milk  Vz  cup  olive  oil 

Salt  1  (3-inch)  stick  cinnamon 

l/2  as  many  eggs  as  bread  slices  l/z  cup  Malaga  wine 


i86  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Dip  slices  one  by  one  into  milk  to  cover,  remove  at  once  and 
salt  lightly.  Beat  eggs  to  a  froth  and  put  ]/2  of  mixture  on  one 
side  of  bread  slices,  using  a  wooden  spoon.  Let  stand  10  minutes, 
while  they  swell,  then  fry  on  egged  side.  When  nicely  browned, 
turn,  put  remainder  of  egg  on  uncooked  side,  and  fry.  Make 
a  syrup  with  5  last  ingredients,  remove  cinnamon,  and  pour  over 
bread. 


SALADS 

(Ensaladas) 


SPANISH  DRESSING 

(Condimento  Espanol) 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  l/2  teaspoon  peppercorns,  ground 

1  garlic  clove,  finely  minced 

Dissolve  salt  in  the  vinegar.  Put  the  oil  into  a  small  bowl 
and  gradually  add  the  pepper  and  garlic.  Then  add  the  vinegar 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  beating  continually  for  about  2  minutes 
until  thoroughly  mixed. 

An  old  Spanish  proverb  says:  "To  make  a  perfect  salad 
there  should  be  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  wise 
man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir  all  these  ingredients." 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

(Ensalada  de  Lechuga  Fino) 

1  head  lettuce  2  eggs,  hard-boiled 

Spanish  dressing  1  sweet  red  pepper 

Wash  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  dry  thoroughly  and  place  in 
the  salad  bowl.  Pour  the  dressing  over  them  and  toss  lightly  but 
thoroughly  so  that  each  leaf  is  coated.  Garnish  with  slices  of  the 
eggs  and  rings  of  the  pepper. 

Salads  are  not  as  popular  in  Spain  as  they  are  in  France,  but 
they  make  a  much  gayer  appearance,  and  this  is  not  only  due  to 

187 


188  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

the  colorful  peppers  and  olives.  Centuries  back,  when  Spain  was 
greatly  influenced  by  oriental  invasion,  especially  by  the  Moors, 
the  country  adopted  an  oriental  plate  or  table  dish  unrivalled  any- 
where in  size,  brilliance  and  gaiety  of  design.  The  Moorish 
plate  is  wide,  deep  and  generously  rimmed,  thick  but  light;  ideal 
for  salads.  Roomy,  cheerful,  appetizing,  it  glints  with  arabesques 
in  gold,  silver  and  copper,  dances  with  folk  festivals  fired  into  the 
glaze,  riots  with  fruits,  flowers,  lambs,  unicorns  and  Goyaesque 
grotesqueries.  Since  Spanish  plates  are  now  cheap  in  imitation 
and  even  the  originals  in  antique  stores  are  not  expensive,  no 
salad-lover  should  be  without  one. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

(Ensalada  de  Tomate) 

4  large  ripe  tomatoes  2  dozen  pickled  onions 

2  cups  mayonnaise  dressing 

Arrange  on  large  flat  salad  dish,  first  a  ring  of  sliced  tomatoes 
around  the  edge,  then  a  ring  of  onions  inside  of  that,  another  of 
tomatoes  and  the  mayonnaise  in  a  mound  in  the  center. 

GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD 

{Ensalada  de  Pimiento  Verde) 

6  green  peppers  1  onion 

3  tomatoes  Spanish  dressing 

Blanch  the  peppers,  remove  the  skins  and  seeds  and  cut  in 
halves.  Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes  and  onion,  the  latter  in  very 
thin  slices.    Arrange  on  salad  plate  and  serve  with  dressing. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD 
(Ensalada  de  Habas  Verde) 

3  cups  cooked  string  beans         Small  cucumber  pickles 
Spanish  dressing  1  lemon 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 


SPANISH  189 

Chill  the  beans.  Marinate  them  in  the  Spanish  dressing  and 
garnish  with  small  cucumber  pickles  and  thin  triangles  of  lemon 
dipped  in  parsley. 

LIMA  BEAN  SALAD 
(Ensalada  de  Habas) 

1  lettuce  heart  2  cups  cooked  peas 

2  cups  cooked  lima  beans  1  Spanish  onion 

Vinaigrette  dressing 

Line  salad  bowl  with  the  crisped  and  slightly  salted  lettuce. 
Drain  beans  and  peas,  slice  onion  and  toss  all  lightly  in  the 
dressing.    Place  on  lettuce  leaves. 

GREEN  PEA  SALAD 

(Ensalada  Habas  Verde) 

1  cup  lettuce,  chopped  1  sweet  onion 

French  dressing  1  cup  cooked  peas 

1  cup  cooked  lima  beans 

Wash  and  dry  lettuce.  Toss  it  in  some  of  the  dressing. 
Slice  onions  thinly.  Drain  peas  and  beans.  Marinate  vegetables 
in  dressing  for  5  minutes.    Serve  in  nests  of  the  prepared  lettuce. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD 

(Ensaladas  de  Vegetals) 

2  cooked  potatoes  2  cooked  beets 

1  small  onion  2  medium-sized  tomatoes 

Spanish  dressing  3  cooked  carrots 

1  cup  cooked  string  beans 

Dice  potatoes  and  onion,  mix  with  dressing  and  put  in  the 
center  of  the  salad  dish.  Slice  beets  and  tomatoes,  and  edge  the 
platter  with  them,  placed  alternately,  with  a  little  space  between. 
Cut  carrots  lengthwise  in  strips,  cut  beans  lengthwise  once,  and 


190  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

lay  them  in  the  spaces  between  the  tomatoes  and  beets,  so  they 
shoot  out  in  rays  from  the  potato  salad  center.  Sprinkle  Spanish 
dressing  over  all. 

MIDNIGHT  SALAD 

(Ensalada  de  Noche) 

i  head  lettuce  Salt  and  pepper 

3  cups   cold  cooked   shrimps       Spanish  dressing 
i  cup  cooked  truffles  i  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 

Stuffed  olives 

Crisp  the  lettuce  leaves  in  cold  water  and  dry  in  a  napkin. 
Cut  the  shrimps  in  half  and  chop  the  truffles.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  mix  them  well.  Make  six  nests  of  the  lettuce 
leaves  on  the  salad  plate;  sprinkle  lightly  with  Spanish  dressing. 
Mix  truffles  and  shrimp  with  mayonnaise  and  pile  on  the  nests. 
Garnish  with  stuffed  olives.    A  favorite  after  theatre  dish. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

{Ensalada  Polluello) 

2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken  i  onion,  minced  fine 

i  head  crisp  lettuce  i  cup  mayonnaise 

Salt  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

i  teaspoon  tarragon,  chopped  2  beets 

Asparagus  tips 

Dice  the  chicken  meat,  chop  fine  the  firm  inner  leaves  of 
the  lettuce,  and  season  with  salt  and  tarragon.  Mix  the  two  and 
add  the  onion.  Mix  all  lightly  with  the  mayonnaise  and  garnish 
with  sliced  eggs,  slices  of  beets,  and  asparagus  tips. 

ORANGE  SALAD 

{Ensalada  de  Naranjas) 

Oranges  Powdered  sugar  in  proportion 

Rum  or  kirsch  to  taste 


SPANISH  191 

Slice  juicy  oranges  with  peel.  Place  in  a  fine  glass  dish,  cover 
with  sugar  and  moisten  with  rum  or  kirsch. 

Since  Spanish  oranges  are  exceptionally  flavorsome  and  sapid, 
this  salad  is  a  favorite  all  the  way  from  Cadiz  to  Barcelona. 

ICE  SALAD 
(Ensalada  Helada) 

Assorted  fruits  1  pint  lemon,  or  any  desired 

fruit  ice 

1  pint  of  fruit  ice  is  sufficient  for  6  servings.  Partly  fill  sher- 
bet glasses  with  fresh  fruit,  melon  in  balls,  and  pile  large  spoon- 
fuls of  fruit  ice  on  top. 

Melons  and  citrons  were  popularized  in  Spain  by  the  in- 
vading Moors  and  many  desserts  and  salads  are  made  luscious 
by  them.  Columbus  spread  the  fame  of  the  Spanish  melon  by 
carrying  its  seeds  on  his  first  voyage  to  America.  The  Indians 
took  them  then  as  far  from  the  coast  as  New  Mexico,  so  we  have 
inherited  many  of  our  finest  melons  from  the  Spanish. 

The  nasturtium,  flower,  leaf  and  green  seed  is  a  standard  gar- 
nish in  Spain.  So  this  iced  fruit  salad  would  be  made  all  the 
more  appetizing  and  decoratively  Spanish  by  the  addition  of  half 
a  dozen  nasturtium  buds. 


DESSERTS 

(Sobremesas  or  Postres) 


SIGHS 
(Suspiros) 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  4  egg  whites 

%  cup  water  1  pound  blanched  almonds 

Grated  rind  l/i  lemon 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 
Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and  beat  syrup  slowly  into 
them.  Fold  in  blanched  almonds,  cut  length-wise  into  fine  strips. 
Mix  in  grated  lemon  rind.  Drop  by  teaspoonful,  not  too  closely 
together,  on  a  baking  sheet  covered  with  oil  paper.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°F.)  until  delicately  browned. 

PUFFS  OF  WIND 
(Buhuelos  de  Viento) 

2  cups  flour  l/2  cup  butter  or  olive  oil 

Cold  water  2  egg  yolks 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Knead  flour  with  salt  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  firm 
dough  and  let  stand  for  J/2  hour.  Put  butter  or  oil  in  a  frying 
pan  over  a  low  flame,  and  when  it  is  warm  put  in  the  dough  and 
work  the  fat  into  it  thoroughly  and  quickly,  without  browning. 
Then  remove  dough  to  a  bowl,  and  when  it  is  cool  work  in  the 
tgg  yolks  and  egg.  Knead  until  dough  is  smooth  and  satiny. 
Form  into  small  balls.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  on  brown  paper, 
and  brush  over  with  a  thick  wine  or  flower  syrup,  then  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  ground  almonds. 

192 


SPANISH 


193 


GYPSY'S  EMBRACE 
(Brazo  de  Gitano) 

Yi  cup  flour 
Cinnamon 
Grated  rind  1  lemon  Powdered  sugar 


3  eggs 


Yi  cup  granulated  sugar 


Ys  teaspoon  salt 
Yi  cup  flour 


Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Gradually  beat 
in  sifted  sugar  and  grated  rind.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but 
not  dry.  Fold  Yz  of  them  into  the  mixture,  then  *^  of  the  sifted 
flour.  Continue  alternating  until  both  are  used.  Pour  into  a 
greased  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.) 
about  25  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  when  done.  Cool; 
spread  with  Spanish  cream  filling  and  roll  as  for  jelly  roll.  Dust 
with  powdered  sugar. 

SPANISH  CREAM  FILLING 
(Crema  Espahola) 

1  cup  milk 

1 -inch  stick  cinnamon,  crushed 

1  teaspoon  lemon  rind,   grated        2  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  granulated  sugar  4  egg  yolks 

Bring  milk  with  cinnamon  and  lemon  rind  slowly  to  a  boil 
and  strain.  Mix  sugar  with  salt  and  flour  and  add  strained  milk 
gradually.  Cook  15  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly 
while  mixture  thickens,  then  occasionally.  Add  butter  and  egg 
yolks,  well  beaten,  and  cook  2  or  3  minutes  longer.    Cool  and 

SPANISH  CREAM  PUFFS 
(Hinchares) 

1  cup  water  1%  cups  flour 

*4  cup  butter  3  eggs,  unbeaten 

4  tablespoons   granulated   sugar  Cooking  fat 

Put  water  into  a  saucepan  with  butter  and  sugar.  Bring  to 
a  boil  and  stir  the  flour  in  briskly  until  you  make  a  smooth  paste. 


i94  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Remove  from  fire  and  stir  a  few  seconds  longer  until  dough 
forms  a  ball  and  does  not  stick  to  pan.  Let  it  stand  2  or  3 
minutes,  then  stir  in,  with  a  wooden  spoon,  one  egg  at  a  time, 
until  all  are  used.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  hot  oil  or  lard,  when 
it  is  almost  smoking  hot  drop  the  mixture  in,  by  the  spoonful. 
But  only  a  few  at  a  time,  to  allow  for  swelling.  Fry,  not  too 
quickly,  until  they  are  brown  all  over  and  twice  their  original 
size.  Take  out  with  skimmer,  drain  on  brown  paper,  open  at 
one  side  and  fill  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  or  any  preferred 
filling.     Sprinkle  liberally  with  icing  sugar. 

To  ba\e. — Let  dough  stand  J4  hour,  stir  a  little,  and  drop  by 
tablespoons  on  buttered  pans,  about  2  inches  apart  each  way. 
Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.),  being 
careful  that  they  do  not  burn. 

SWEETS  OF  PARADISE 
(Dulce  del  Par  also) 

l/2  cup  almond  and  filbert  nuts  4  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  12  lady  fingers 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  Flower  or  fruit  syrup 
1  quart  milk  Powdered  sugar 

Cinnamon 

Grind  almonds  and  filberts  to  a  fine  meal,  mix  with  sugar 
and  cornstarch,  and  stir  in  the  milk  and  eggs  thoroughly.  Cook 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  mixture  continually,  until  a  bubble 
forms  on  top.  Have  the  lady  fingers,  previously  soaked  in  a 
flower  or  fruit  syrup,  arranged  in  a  serving  dish.  Pour  cooked 
mixture  over  them.  Powder  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top 
and  decorate  with  the  fresh  fruit  or  flowers  the  syrup  is  flavored 
with. 


SPANISH  195 

ALMOND  STRAWS 

(Pallilos  de  Almendras) 

3  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Y2  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  blanched  almonds 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  6  eggs 

i!4  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  anis  liqueur 

Sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together;  add  sugar,  but- 
ter and  eggs,  and  flavor,  and  work  to  a  smooth  dough.  Roll  out 
and  cut  in  long,  thin,  straw-like  shapes.  Brush  with  egg  yolk, 
saved  out  for  that  purpose,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.). 

CHRISTMAS  TARTS 
(Tortas  Fin  as  de  Navidad) 

1  cup  olive  oil  Cake  flour 

y2  cup  brandy  Sifted  powdered  sugar 

Combine  oil  and  brandy  in  a  mixing  bowl  and  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  firm  dough.  Roll  out  %  inch  thick  and  put  in 
small  forms  lined  with  oiled  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (375°F.).  Powder  thickly  with  sugar  when  done.  Grated 
sweet  chocolate  or  finely  powdered  hard  candies  may  be  used  in 
place  of  sugar. 

TARTS  IN  NESTS 

(Tortas  de  Camadas) 

2  cups  butter  l/2  cup  brandy 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  3  cups  sifted  flour 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  until  thick  2  egg  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  froth 

1  cup  almond  meal 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  vanilla,  al- 
mond meal  and  brandy.    Stir  in  flour  and  beat  thoroughly.    Fold 


196  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

in  beaten  whites  last.  Put  in  small,  buttered  narrow  forms  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  Brush  over  tarts  with  Syrup 
of  Granada.  Pile  in  layers  of  3,  with  marmalade  or  chopped  al- 
monds, filberts,  or  pine  nuts  mixed,  with  icing  between. 

SYRUP  OF  GRANADA 
(Almibar  de  Granada) 

6  pomegranates  Granulated  sugar  as  needed 

Remove  skin,  break  apart  and  crush  fruit.  Cover  with  water 
and  cook  a  few  moments.  Strain  through  a  cheese-cloth  and  to 
each  cup  of  juice  add  2  cups  of  sugar.  Skim  well  while  cooking 
to  a  rather  thick  syrup,  but  remove  before  syrup  reaches  the 
soft-ball  stage.    Serve  with  puddings,  or  pour  over  small  cakes. 

ALMOND  PASTE  FOR  CAKES 
(Almendra  Pasta  Para  Tortas) 

3%  cups  confectioner's  sugar  2  tablespoons    orange    flower 
3  cups  blanched  almonds,  finely  water,  or  1  tablespoon  of 

ground  sherry 

3  eggs  Powdered  sugar 

Mix  sugar  with  ground  almonds,  make  a  hole  in  center  and 
break  in  2  of  the  eggs  with  flower  water  or  sherry.  Work  to  a 
firm  paste  and  add  third  egg  only  if  necessary.  Turn  mixture 
onto  a  board,  dusted  with  sugar  to  prevent  sticking.  With  a 
rolling  pin  roll  to  the  size  of  cake  to  be  covered.  Place  it  on  top, 
press  smooth  and  cover  with  any  preferred  icing. 

CREAM  FOR  CAKES 

(Crema  Para  Bizcochos) 

3  egg  yolks  1  cup  water 

1  cup  red  wine  3  cups  granulated  sugar 

Beat  egg  yolks  into  the  wine  and  water,  and  stir  in  the  sugar. 
Beat  thoroughly,  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  while  beating,  until 


SPANISH  197 

mixture  begins  to  thicken.    Remove  from  fire.    This  cream  is 
poured  over  cakes  to  the  saturation  point. 

SWEET  RING  CAKES 
(Rosquillas) 

Yz  cup  olive  oil  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  l/2  cup  milk 

2  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  lemon  rind,  grated 
1%  cups  cake  flour  2  egg  whites 

Cream  oil  with  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  and  beat  until  light 
and  creamy.  Add  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  alternately 
with  milk.  Add  lemon  rind  and  fold  the  egg  whites  which  have 
been  beaten  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Put  in  small,  shallow  but- 
tered ring  pans.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Frost  with  chocolate. 

NUT  CAKES 
\  (Mingolillos) 

Y2  pound  blanched  almonds       Flour 
l/2  pound  blanched  filberts  1  or  2  tablespoons  honey 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Powdered  sugar 

4  eggs  Cinnamon 

Grind  almonds  and  filberts  to  a  fine  meal.  Mix  sugar  with  3 
of  the  eggs,  beat  until  light  and  creamy,  then  add  nut  meal  and 
mix  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  firm  dough.  Form  in  finger 
shapes,  let  stand  20  minutes,  then  dip  in  remaining  beaten  egg 
and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat.  When  done,  brush  with  honey  and 
powder  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

PINE  NUT  BUTTER  CAKES 
(Mantecado  de  Pihon) 

1  cup  butter  or  olive  oil  3  cups  cake  flour 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup  milk 

4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten         4  egg  whites 
1  cup  pine  nuts 


198  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Cream  butter.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  beat  together  until 
light  and  creamy.  Add  extract  and  egg  yolks.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  3  times  and  add  to  mixture  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and  fold 
in  with  the  pine  nuts.  Pour  into  baking  pans  lined  with  oiled 
paper.    Bake  45  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.). 

Pine  nuts  enrich  many  a  Spanish  specialty.    Though  difficult 
to  shell,  they  are  well  worth  the  trouble  because  of  their  incom- 
parable flavor. 
r  MACAROONS 

(Almendrados) 

%  cup  blanched  almonds        1  teaspoon  each,  mace,  cinna- 
3  egg  whites  mon,  nutmeg 

Y\  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  rosewater 

4  drops  bitter  almond 

Pound  almonds  smooth  as  your  cheek,  adding  a  little  egg- 
white  to  prevent  oiling,  and  let  stand  overnight  if  convenient.  In 
morning,  beat  egg-whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  sugar  gradually 
in  small  quantities.  Continue  beating,  stir  in  spices  and  rose- 
water  a  little  at  a  time  and  add  pounded  almonds  gradually. 
Flavor.  The  mixture  should  be  worked  until  it  becomes  a  soft 
dough — if  too  thick  it  will  be  heavy,  if  too  thin  the  cake  will 
spread  and  run  over  in  baking. 

Take  up  dough  with  teaspoon  and  shape  into  balls  with  your 
fingers,  floured.  Lay  on  buttered  baking  sheet,  2  inches  apart, 
and  bake  8-10  minutes  in  moderate  oven  (35o°F.).  The  maca- 
roons should  rise  in  the  middle  while  baking  and  crack  on  the 
surface.   Split  almonds  may  be  laid  on  top  before  baking. 

Macaroons  and  macaroni  are  Siamese  twins  in  origin,  both 
being  the  offspring  of  the  Italian  root-word  maccare — to  bruise, 
crush  to  a  paste.    Although  accredited  to  Italy,  macaroons  are 


SPANISH  199 

now  the  specialties  of  many  countries,  with  variations  both  in 
flavor  (lemon,  apple,  coffee,  chocolate,  etc.)  and  in  the  nut  of 
which  the  paste  is  made  (almond,  coconut  and  pistachio).  In- 
deed, the  Spanish  macaroon  is  the  type  best  known  in  this  coun- 
try, for  it  is  made  only  of  almonds  and  hence  called  "almendra- 
dos."  The  oriental  influence  so  prevalent  in  Spanish  cooking 
is  noted  in  the  rosewater  flavoring. 

PASTRY  TWISTS 
(Roscoqs  de  feringas) 

2  cups  almonds  3  tablespoons  grated  lemon  rind 

3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar        3  egg  whites 

Grind  almonds  to  a  meal,  add  sugar,  grated  lemon  rind,  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Mix  in- 
gredients lightly  and  put  into  a  pastry  bag  with  tube.  Squeeze 
out  in  little  twists  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  until  golden  brown. 

DOUGHNUTS 

(Buhuelos) 

1  cup  water  2  teaspoons  granulated  sugar 

1  pinch  salt  1  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  butter  4  eggs 

Honey 

Boil  water  with  salt,  butter  and  sugar.  Stir  in  flour,  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  continually.  Cool,  then 
work  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls 
into  deep  hot  fat  and  fry  the  doughnuts  a  rich  brown.  Drain  on 
brown  paper,  brush  with  honey  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

At  the  fiestas  of  Spain  the  honeyed  aroma  of  these  tooth- 
some bufiuelos  spices  the  air.  They  are  as  much  a  part  of  the 
great  spring  cattle  fair  as  the  empanads,  pastellilos,  goats,  and 


200  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

country  wine  brought  in  by  gypsies  and  their  donkeys,  great 
tuns  on  wheels,  the  wine  frothing  from  the  spiggot  into  generous 
tumblers  at  two  cents  a  throw. 

TOWERS 

(Torres) 

These  are  unsweetened  doughnuts  made  by  the  above  recipe 
for  Bunuelos,  with  the  sugar  and  honey  left  out.  When  nicely 
fried  they  are  drained,  slit  open  down  the  side  and  filled  with  a 
cooked  cream  or  whipped  cream  mixed  with  nuts.  Towers  are 
also  served  with  a  fruit  or  wine  syrup  poured  over  them. 

MADRID  BISCUIT 

(Bizcochos  de  Madrid) 

Y2  cup  butter,  melted  7  egg  yolks 

1  ounce  grated  orange  rind  3  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  brandy  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt 

Place  butter,  orange  rind,  brandy  and  6  egg  yolks  together 
in  a  bowl  and  mix  vigorously  for  12  minutes,  using  a  whisk.  Sift 
flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  to  mixture  and  beat  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Take  small  pieces  of  dough  and  shape  into  twists. 
Arrange  on  a  well-buttered  baking  sheet.  Brush  lightly  with 
remaining  egg  yolk,  beaten,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.). 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

FRIED  BREAD  IN  SAUCE 
(Tarbinas) 

l/z  cup  blanched  almonds  !/4  cup  Malaga  wine 

or  filberts  2  teaspoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  cups  boiling  water 

Several  slices  bread  Pinch  of  salt 

Powdered  sugar 


SPANISH  201 

Fry  almonds  in  the  oil.  Cut  bread  in  finger  widths  and  fry. 
When  all  are  golden  brown,  drain  on  brown  paper.  Put  i  tea- 
spoon of  the  olive  oil  with  the  Malaga  wine  in  a  saucepan.  Stir 
in  flour  and  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Gradually  stir  in  the  boiling 
water  and  salt,  stirring  continually  until  the  sauce  is  smooth. 
Pour  hot  over  bread  and  nuts,  covering  them  well  and  powder 
thickly  with  sugar. 

BAKED  APPLES 

(Compota  de  Manzanas) 

8  apples  1  inch  stick  cinnamon 

2%  cups  powdered  sugar  1  cup  sherry 

Core,  and  peel  apples.  Put  1  cup  of  the  sugar  in  bottom  of  a 
baking  dish  and  place  apples  on  top.  Put  another  cup  of  the 
sugar  over  apples.  Crush  cinnamon  and  strew  over  them,  and 
pour  the  sherry  over.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.) .  When 
tender  take  out,  strew  remaining  sugar  over  apples  and  cool. 

PEARS  IN  ANIS  JELLY 
{Per as  de  Mallorca) 

6  preserved  pears  1  cup   granulated   sugar 

2  tablespoons  gelatin  Juice  of   1   lemon 
l/2  cup  cold  water  3  egg  whites 

3  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  anis  liqueur 

Cut  each  pear  into  6  pieces  and  drain.  Soften  gelatin  in  cold 
water,  then  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Stir  in  sugar,  lemon  juice 
and  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  until  stifr"  but  not  dry. 
Cool  and  stir  in  anis.  When  jelly  begins  to  thicken  pour  a  layer 
into  a  mold  which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water  and  packed  in 
ice.  When  jelly  is  firm  add  a  layer  of  pears.  Fill  mold  with 
alternate  layers  of  jelly  and  pears,  being  sure  that  each  layer  of 
jelly  is  firm  before  adding  the  pears.  Chill  2  hours.  This  is  a 
special  dish  of  the  Island  of  Mallorca. 


202  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

CHESTNUT  SWEET 
(Dulce  de  Castahd) 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  Blanched  chestnuts 

i  cup  water  2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

Cinnamon 

Cook  sugar  and  water,  stirring  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then 
put  in  as  many  chestnuts  as  syrup  will  hold.  Boil  a  few  minutes, 
but  remove  from  fire  before  syrup  reaches  the  soft  ball  stage. 
Add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  mix  carefully.  Turn  into  a  serving 
dish,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  serve  with  cheese. 

FRIED  ALMOND  PASTE 

(Torrijas  de  Almendras) 

l/2  pound  blanched  almonds  Cake  flour 

4  egg  yolks  Butter 

Grind  almonds  to  a  paste  and  mix  with  egg  yolks.  Then 
slowly  work  in  a  little  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  and  fry  delicately  in  butter.  Serve  with  a  flower  or 
fruit  flavored  syrup. 

ALMONDS  AND  RAISINS 

(Almendras  con  Pasas) 

Select  fine  bunches  of  Valencia  raisins  with  purple  bloom 
on  the  fruit.  Arrange  on  service  plate  with  pyramidal  heaps 
of  salted  almonds  and  sugared  almonds. 

FILBERT  NOUGAT 
(Dulce  de  Avellanas) 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Y2  pound    blanched    filberts,    in 

2  egg  whites  shreds 
1  tablespoon  orange  flower  water 


SPANISH 


203 


Put  sugar,  egg  whites  and  orange-flower  water  into  a  round 
bottomed  pan  and  set  over  a  slow  fire,  beating  constantly  until 
mixture  is  the  consistency  of  stiff  batter.  Remove,  and  mix  in 
filberts,  shred  very  finely.  Stir  well,  and  drop  mixture  in  small 
ovals  on  sheets  of  paper  spread  over  a  baking  tin.  Put  them 
into  an  almost  cold  oven  to  dry  steadily,  rather  than  to  bake. 
When  firm  they  are  ready  to  use.    Keep  white  as  possible. 

ALMOND  AND  HONEY  NOUGAT 

(Turrones  con  Miel) 

14  ounces  strained  honey  2  egg  whites 

*4  cup  orange  flower  water         y2  cup  confectioner's  sugar 
2  pounds  blanched  almonds,  finely  chopped 

Put  honey  and  flower  water  over  fire  and  cook  to  soft  ball 
stage.  Mix  egg  whites,  which  have  been  beaten  until  stiff  and 
quite  dry,  with  sugar  and  almonds.  Add  honey,  beat  all 
together  to  a  smooth  paste.  Put  a  sheet  of  thick  paper  on  a 
board,  spread  the  paste  over  it  to  J^  inch  in  depth  and  cover 
with  another  sheet  of  paper.  Put  another  board  on  top  with 
a  weight  on  it.    When  cold,  cut  into  shapes. 

GINGER  SWEET 
(Alfajor  Moreno) 

4  pounds  strained  honey  *4  teaspoon  bay  leaf 

iYz  ounces    ground    almonds  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

4  ounces  sifted  bread  crumbs  1  clove,  ground 

1  tablespoon  candied  orange  peel      1  tablespoon  ginger 
2  peppercorns,  ground 

Boil  honey,  or  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  until  it  hairs. 
Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  almonds,  bread  crumbs,  orange 
peel,  chopped  fine,  and  spices.  Beat  until  mixture  creams,  then 
pour  into  a  buttered  tin.  Cut,  and  use  as  a  filling  between 
wafers. 


204  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SHERRY  CREAM 

(Crema  de  Vino  de  Jerez) 

24  blanched  almonds,  ground  5  egg  yolks 

fine  lA  cup  cream 

1  cup  milk  Sugar  to  taste 

4  drops  bitter  almond  extract  y2  cup  sherry 

Stir  ground  almonds  with  milk  and  bring  to  a  boil;  add 

extract,  and  cool.    When  cold,  add  egg  yolks,  beaten  well  with 

the  cream,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  sherry.    Set  mixture  over 

the  fire,  heat,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  stir  one  way  until  it 

thickens,  then  pour  into  cups  or  shallow  glasses.     Cool,  and 

serve. 

SYRUP  OF  ORANGE 

(Jarabe  de  Naranja) 

Boil  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  water  to  a  thick  syrup; 
clarify  while  boiling  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and  add 
fresh  orange  flowers  or  extract  of  orange.  Violet,  rose  and 
various  flower  syrups  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

ALMOND  ICE 

{Almendra  Helado) 

Prepare  almond  milk  same  as  in  the  recipe  for  almond  re- 
fresher No.  1.  Sugar  to  taste,  add  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  orange 
flower  water  and  freeze. 

ROSE  SHERBET 
(Sorbete  de  Rosa) 

1  pint  rose  petals  1  quart  boiling  water 

2%  cups  granulated  sugar  6  oranges 

Wash  rose  petals  and  pound  them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar, 
adding  gradually  J4  cup  of  sugar.  Dissolve  remaining  sugar 
in  boiling  water  and  stir  in  the  rose  paste  thoroughly.     Then 


SPANISH  205 

boil  10' minutes,  but  do  not  stir.  Allow  mixture  to  cool  and 
add  the  strained  juice  of  the  oranges.  Freeze,  and  serve  in 
punch  glasses  garnished  with  fresh  rose  petals. 

VIOLET  SHERBET 
(S or bete  de  Violets) 

1  pint  water  1  pint  grape  juice 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  egg  white 

Juice  of  2  lemons  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Fresh  violets 

Mix  water  with  sugar,  boil  for  10  minutes  and  add  the 
strained  lemon  juice.  Take  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Then 
add  grape  juice  and  freeze.  When  partly  frozen  open  freezer, 
put  in  the  egg  white  beaten  with  the  powdered  sugar.  Serve  in 
glasses  on  plates  decorated  with  fresh  violets. 

FROZEN  MINT  PUNCH 
(Ponche  de  Menta  Helado) 

1  dozen  mint  leaves  1  quart  water 

Yz  cup  granulated  sugar  Juice  of  3  lemons 

Pound  mint  leaves  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  %  cup  of 
the  sugar  gradually.  Boil  water  and  remaining  sugar  for  5 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  strain  lemon  juice  and  stir  in  mint 
paste.  Cool  and  freeze.  Leave  punch  in  the  freezer  to  season 
4  or  5  hours  before  serving. 


REFRESHING  DRINKS 

(Refrescos) 


After  luncheon  and  again  after  dinner  a  large  proportion 
of  the  male  population  of  Spain  retire  to  the  cafes  and  order 
black  coffee  or  anis.  Chocolate,  served  hot,  thick  and  sweet,  in 
small  cups,  is  a  favorite  drink  for  cold  days;  and  the  cool,  creamy 
horchata  de  chujas,  made  from  almonds,  or  the  roots  of  a  rush- 
like plant  that  grows  wild  around  Valencia,  served  in  tall  glasses, 
quenches  the  summer  thirst. 

ALMOND  REFRESHER  NO.  1 

{Horchata) 

l/i  pound  raw  blanched  almonds      Yi  pound  roasted  almonds 
Powdered  sugar 

Pound  almonds  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little  water 
from  time  to  time  during  the  process  to  keep  from  oiling.  Then 
add  more  water  and  put  the  paste  into  a  cheese  cloth,  wringing 
it  to  extract  the  juice.  Repeat  the  process  of  pounding,  adding 
water,  and  squeeze  again.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and  ice  for  a 
refreshing  drink.  Pumpkin  and  melon  seeds  are  treated  in  the 
same  way,  to  make  a  similar  creamy  beverage. 

ALMOND  REFRESHER  NO.  2 

Run  almonds  through  a  grinder,  mix  well  with  4  times  their 
bulk  in  water  and  let  stand  an  hour.  Then  pass  through  a 
cheese  cloth,  pounding  and  squeezing  out  the  moisture.  This 
makes  an  almond  cream  to  which  water,  powdered  sugar  and 

206 


SPANISH  207 

ice  are  added.    In  the  same  way  a  drink  is  made  of  hazel  nuts 
or  filberts. 

ORANGE  FLOWER  DRINK 

{Rejresco  Flor  de  Naranja) 

Juice  of  2  oranges  l/2  cup  gin 

Powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  flower  water 

Put  the  juice  of  the  oranges,  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and 
gin  into  the  cocktail  shaker.  Add  flower  water.  Shake  with 
cracked  ice  and  serve  in  champagne  glasses. 

FROZEN  SPANISH  PUNCH 
(Ponche  Espahol) 

Juice  6  lemons  1  pint  Rioja,  red  wine 

Thin  rind  of  2  lemons  l/2  nutmeg,  grated 

3  cups   sugar  syrup  1  cup  water 

Mix  ingredients  and  strain  into  freezer.  Freeze;  and  during 
the  process  scrape  down  with  a  spatula  the  ice  that  forms  on  the 
sides.  When  the  punch  becomes  a  slushy  snow,  just  liquid 
enough  to  run,  pour  into  glasses  and  serve.  Frosted  glasses  make 
the  drink  seem  all  the  colder. 

ARROPA 

This  is  a  favorite  beverage  in  the  great  grape  sections  of 
Spain.  It  is  made  with  new  wine  boiled  down  to  a  thick  syrup, 
then  diluted,  sweetened  and  spiced  to  taste.  Can  be  drunk  either 
hot  or  cold. 


THE  BASQUE  KITCHEN 


The  Basques,  whose  country  was  anciently  called  Euskaria, 
are  the  oldest  and  most  colorful  race  in  Europe.  Living  to 
themselves  in  the  lofty  Pyrenees,  they  have  come  through  almost 
unspoiled  by  civilization.  Shepherds,  sailors,  farmers,  they  are 
a  lusty  race,  fond  of  music,  wine  and  good  living,  as  are  all 
highlanders.  They  carry  wine  with  them  wherever  they  go,  in 
sheepskin  bags,  slung  over  the  shoulder.  When  they  are  thirsty 
they  simply  pull  the  tiny  wooden  plug  from  the  nozzle,  hold 
it  high  overhead  and  aim  the  jet  of  wine  unerringly  into  their 
mouths.  Sometimes  a  bit  of  wool  gets  into  the  wine,  or,  after 
a  hot  march,  it  takes  on  a  flavor  of  mutton  broth,  but  they  are 
hardy  mountaineers  with  man-sized  thirsts  and  appetites  to 
keep  them  well  above  such  petty  matters. 

Although  they  occupy  the  borderland  between  Spain  and 
France,  they  maintain  a  cuisine  as  emphatically  their  own  as 
are  their  medieval  costumes,  ornate  and  elegant.  Natty  velvet 
jackets  and  knee  breeches  of  silk  with  silver  filigree  buttons 
jangling  in  bunches  from  velours  vests  and  ribbon  garters  are 
their  native  garb.  Though  they  combine  farming  and  moun- 
taineering, they  are  celebrated  fisherfolk  as  well,  for  the  finest 
fish  in  Europe  are  caught  in  the  Biscay  Bay,  salubrious  shellfish, 
too,  crabs,  lobsters  and  sea  spiders. 

Grilled  royans  on  toast  is  a  Basque  specialty,  and  the  recipe 
is  simplicity  itself:  Roll  fresh,  cleaned  sardines  in  olive  oil,  salt 
and  pepper.    Grill  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

208 


SPANISH  209 

Royans  are  small  and  tender  sardines  native  to  the  Bay  of 
Biscay,  but  any  sort  of  sardines,  including  big  California  pil- 
chards, are  toothsome  when  grilled  and  served  in  this  manner. 
Buttered  toast  is  uncommon  in  Spain  itself,  where  cows  are 
so  scarce  that  butter  has  to  be  imported  in  tins  from  Scandinavia, 
but  Basqueland  is  exceptional  in  having  rich  milk  for  both 
butter  and  cheese.     Therefore,  less  olive  oil  is  used  than  in 

Andalusia. 

BASQUE  SOUP 

Potatoes,  beans  and  garlic  boiled  together.  Slices  of  dry 
bread  spread  with  mashed  potatoes,  thickly  dusted  with  grated 
cheese.  These  are  placed  in  the  soup  plates  and  the  puree 
poured  over  them.  Then  a  palmful  of  pitted  olives  is  sprinkled 
over  all. 

While  the  local  ways  of  preparing  fish  are  individual,  the 
standard  method  is  to  simmer  them  in  scant  olive  oil,  with  onion 
and  garlic,  spiced  with  red  pepper,  garnished  with  parsley,  and 
served  either  on  bread  or  buttered  toast.  Codfish  is  as  popular 
here  as  in  Portugal,  and  the  following  recipe  will  do  either  for 
fresh  or  salt  cod: 

COD  BISCAYENNE 

6  shallots,  chopped  2  raw  potatoes,  sliced  thin 

2  cloves  of  garlic,  chopped  2  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  pounds  cod,  shredded  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  water 

Saute  shallots  and  garlic  in  the  olive  oil  for  5  minutes;  do 
not  let  them  brown.  Add  cod  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  using 
salt  cod,  allow  to  soak  in  cold  water  several  hours  before  using. 
Place  y2  of  the  cod  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole.  On 
top  of  the  fish  place  a  layer  of  potato  and  tomato  slices  and  the 
chopped  pepper.    Season  and  cover  with  remainder  of  the  fish. 


210  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Add  water,  cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°?.)  for  1 
hour.    This  makes  8  to  10  servings. 

The  typical  Basque  sauce  is  Piperrade,  "peppery"  in  transla- 
tion. Hot  and  spicy,  often  enriched  by  eggs,  it  makes  a  piquant 
vegetable  melange.  The  codfish  recipe  shows  that  this  cuisine 
also  follows  the  southern  chives-shallot-leek-onion-garlic  route. 
Its  most  distinguishing  characteristic,  however,  is  the  use  of 
peppers  in  everything.  A  piperrade  omelet  is  smothered  in 
minced  sweet  peppers  and  tomatoes  lightly  browned  in  olive  oil. 

EGGS  BASQUE 

4  large  green  peppers  Salt  and  pepper 

4  eggs  2  cups  cooked  rice 

1  cup  tomato  sauce 

Parboil  the  peppers  for  5  minutes.  Drain,  remove  skin,  cut 
off  the  stem  end  and  remove  seeds  and  membranes.  Place 
each  pepper  in  a  buttered  cup  with  the  cut  end  up.  In  each 
drop  an  tgg  and  sprinkle  with  seasoning.  Place  the  cups  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°?.)  until 
the  eggs  are  set,  about  5  to  10  minutes.  When  done  remove 
peppers  and  place  in  nests  of  boiled  rice.  Surround  with  tomato 
sauce.  Brown  gravy  or  cream  sauce  may  be  substituted.  This 
makes  4  servings. 

Since  these  highlands  have  a  long  and  severe  winter,  nearly 
everything  is  pickled,  to  last  out  the  unproductive  season.  Pi- 
mentos, sliced  tomatoes  and  olives,  stoned,  as  well  as  all  game 
and  fowl  go  into  the  confit  jar:  quail,  wild  pigeons,  goose,  duck, 
chicken  and  turkey,  and  many  a  native  recipe  calls  for  a  joint 
from  the  jar.  The  Euskarians  make  their  own  pate  de  foie  gras, 
flavored  with  onion,  white  wine  and  brandy.  Many  dishes  are 
stimulated  by  burning  brandy  over  them — fish,  rabbit,  omelet 
and  cheese  dishes. 


SPANISH 


211 


One  of  the  favorite  fish  dishes  thus  prepared  is  made  with 
squid.  Calamare  is  the  Spanish  name  for  squid,  chipirones  is 
the  Basque  name.  Squid  and  octopus  are  much  the  same;  the 
latter  has  8  tentacles,  while  the  former  has  10.  It  is  interesting 
to  note  that  these  water  animals  have  little  sacs  containing  a 
black  liquid.  In  life,  when  attacked,  the  animal  uses  a  discharge 
of  this  dark  substance,  called  "ink,"  under  cover  of  which  it 
escapes.  The  Italians  and  Spaniards  are  very  fond  of  cooking 
squid,  body,  tentacles  and  ink-sac  all  together.  They  think 
the  ink-sac  lends  piquancy  to  the  dish,  but  some  prefer  to  have 
the  sac  removed. 


CHIPIRONES  A  LA  GUIPUZCOANE 


i  pound  squid 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2  onions,  chopped 
"Ink"  from  squid 


Dash  of  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne 

i  tablespoon  apple  brandy 

4  to  6  slices  toast 


Dice  tentacles,  heads  and  bodies  of  squid,  discarding  "bones"; 
carefully  cutting  loose  the  ink  sac,  intact,  for  future  use.  Heat 
olive  oil  and  slowly  fry  the  squid  and  onions  in  it  until  brown. 
Rupture  the  ink  sac,  add  ink,  cover  and  simmer  until  fish  is 
tender,  about  2  hours.  Add  seasoning  and  apple  brandy.  Serve 
on  toast.  The  brandy  may  be  poured  over  each  serving  and 
burned,  if  desired.    This  makes  4  to  6  servings. 

For  Chipirones  a  la  Labourdine,  use  only  head  and  tentacles 
of  squid,  mix  with  chopped  ham,  bread  crumbs,  onion,  parsley 
and  minced  garlic;  fry  in  plenty  of  olive  oil.  Lay  this  mixture 
on  the  "bones,"  and  simmer  in  olive  oil.  Take  up  with  a 
perforated  slice,  and  serve  very  hot. 

These  dishes  from  the  Basque  region  bear  names  from  the 
regional  dialect. 


212  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Basque  sausages  are  well  peppered  and  seasoned  with  garlic. 
The  celebrated  spicy  Loukenkas  is  hotter  even  than  Spanish 
Chorizos.  This  sausage  is  grilled  and  served  with  raw  oysters, 
and  what  could  be  tastier  than  that?  Other  specialties  are  mush- 
room fritters,  smoked  ox  tongues,  raw  hams,  potted  pork,  and 
dishes  distinguished  by  goose  drippings  and  a  wrapping  of 
cabbage  leaves. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT  SALAD 

i  large  eggplant  %  cup  wine  vinegar 

i  tablespoon  sharp  mustard  Salt  and  pepper 

%  cup  olive  oil  Head  of  lettuce 

Cut  eggplant  in  half  lengthwise  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (35o°F.)  for  30  minutes  or  until  tender.  Peel  and  dice. 
Marinate  in  a  mixture  of  the  sharp  mustard,  oil,  vinegar  and 
seasonings.  Place  in  a  refrigerator  for  at  least  1  hour.  Serve 
in  lettuce  cups.    This  makes  6  to  8  servings. 

PORK  BISCAYENNE 

A  4-pound  loin  of  pork  3  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  fat  Salt  and  pepper 

Brown  the  loin  of  pork  in  the  fat,  then  cover  with  milk  and 
simmer  slowly,  covered,  for  2  to  3  hours.  Sprinkle  with  season- 
ings when  half  cooked. 

Saddle  of  lamb  and  veal  are  nicely  roasted  on  the  spit  before 
the  most  unique  grate  fire  in  the  world.  Since  these  picturesque 
highlanders  are  pretty  well  snowed  in  most  of  the  winter,  their 
kitchens  are  much  cozier  than  those  in  the  rest  of  Spain.  As 
in  the  Italian  countryside,  the  kitchen  here  is  the  most  popular 
and  comfortable  room  in  the  house,  with  its  blazing  straw  fire, 
three-legged  iron  cooking  pots  and  hand-hammered  tongs,  bulg- 
ing casks  of  wine,  jars  of  pickles  and  confits,  sound  cheeses, 
hams,  sausages,  and  strings  of  handy  herbs. 


SPANISH  213 

One  entire  wall  of  the  stone  kitchen  is  given  over  to  the  fire; 
it  is  a  fireplace  rather  than  a  wall.  Straw  is  packed  neatly  into 
the  space  stretching  from  one  room-corner  to  another  and  reach- 
ing all  the  way  from  floor  to  ceiling.  The  fire-surface  of  the 
packed  straw  is  cut  off  neatly,  and  sometimes  it  covers  a  hundred 
square  feet.  A  match  is  applied  to  the  bottom  straw  and  the 
whole  side  of  the  kitchen  leaps  up  in  a  blaze.  The  fire,  however, 
is  steady  and  easily  controlled,  for  the  straw  is  so  closely  and 
cleverly  packed  that  it  burns  slowly  and  evenly,  the  hot  ashes 
sifting  down  gradually  to  form  a  perfect  bed  of  coals  in  which 
the  gypsy-legged  pots  stand  simmering  on  their  stilts  well  above 
the  cinders.  No  lamp  is  needed  in  such  a  well  lighted  room, 
where  one  feels  as  though  he  were  on  the  inside  of  an  oven, 
getting  slowly  baked  through  with  the  golden  glow  from  the 
fire  and  a  handy  flagon  of  wine. 

As  in  all  hard-drinking  countries,  few  sweets  are  in  demand, 
and  those  of  the  Basques  are  invariably  flavored  with  almonds. 
Their  macaroons  and  almond  pastes  are  beyond  compare  and, 
too,  the  tiny  almond  biscuits  called  Croquignolles  de  Navarra. 
They  also  make  a  soft  and  creamy  nougat  and  juicy  candied 
fruits. 

Of  cheeses  there  are  but  three,  one  a  soft  milk  cheese  like 
Port-Salut,  called  Urt;  the  second  a  ewe  cheese,  and  the  third 
one  made  with  cream.  White  wines  to  go  with  them  are  of  three 
kinds:  Irouleguy,  first  class;  Churi  Seratis,  second;  and  several 
of  the  ordinary  type,  Bidarray,  Osses,  Itxassou  and  Louhassos, 
both  white  and  red.  There  are  aguardientes,  ardent  spirits,  or 
fire-water,  aplenty,  similar  to  Hendaye  Liqueur  on  the  French 
border,  all  flavored  with  salubrious  herbs  gathered  in  the  high 
Pyrenees.  There  is  apple  brandy,  too,  for  flavoring  squid, 
omelets,  meats  and  an  occasional  festive  almond  pudding. 


n 


Boo\  Three 
PORTUGUESE 

Coma-lhe  Bern,  a  Beba-lhe  Melhorl 
(Eat  well  and  drink  better!) 

A  Portuguese  Salutation. 


O  JANTAR  ESTA  NA  MESA 

{The  dinner  is  on  the  table — the  formal  announcement  in 
Portugal  for  "Dinner  is  served.") 


Because  Portugal  is  such  a  steep  narrow  strip  of  land  along 
the  Atlantic  it  has  to  cling  to  its  rocky  coast  like  a  crab  and 
wrest  its  living  likewise  from  the  sea  itself.  Besides  the  fishing 
industry  this  country,  still  known  by  its  ancient  name  Lusitania, 
lives  by  making  wines,  chiefly  port,  and  by  marketing  the  vinous 
specialties  of  its  colonies,  the  islands  of  Madeira  and  the  Azores. 
In  consequence  of  these  two  national  activities,  the  Portuguese 
knows  his  fish  and  wine  even  better  than  the  Britisher  knows  his 
fish  and  chips.  The  Lisboner  can  have  oysters  before  every  meal 
if  he  likes  and  wash  them  down  with  dry  golden  Madeira, 
besides.  Having  been  once  a  part  of  Spain,  the  cuisine  of 
Portugal  is  somewhat  influenced  by  its  past,  and  as  with  Spain 
itself,  there  are  oriental  overtones  to  many  dishes.  Hordes  of 
Moors  long  ago  deserted  North  Africa  to  settle  among  the  Latins 
on  this  rocky  strip  of  seacoast,  and  they  brought  along  the  ancient 
cooking  arts  of  Arabia,  their  conquerors  as  well  as  Spain's  and 
Portugal's.  So  we  find  stuffed  cucumbers,  melons,  almonds  even 
in  the  soup,  and  oriental  rice.  But  Portugal  long  ago  left  her 
imprint  on  Eastern  cooking,  in  exchange,  as  the  result  of  early 
voyages  to  India  and  the  Orient,  where  she  introduced  bread, 
which  is  still  known  there  as  pao,  or  pan.  Another  of  her  con- 
tributions abroad  was  the  cooking  of  shrimps  tempura  style, 
which  is  the  favorite  mode  of  Japan  down  to  this  day.  Portu- 
guese colonies  in  the  East,  Angola  and  Macao,  continue  this 
connection  between  occidental  and  oriental  dishes.    The  Portu- 

217 


218  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

guese,  in  fact,  are  almost  as  fond  of  rice  as  the  Chinese  them- 
selves. 

The  cooking  of  Lusitania  is  also  influenced  by  France,  where 
the  nobility  of  Lisbon  and  Oporto  have  always  sojourned;  and 
by  Italy,  whose  language  is  indeed  closer  to  Portuguese  than 
Spanish  itself.  But  more  than  any  other  influence,  the  Brazilians 
have  added  their  fruits  and  eating  fashions  to  the  mother  country 
that  governed  Brazil  through  the  Emperors  Dom  Pedro  I  and 
II  down  until  1889.  Just  as  Cortes  took  chocolate  to  Spain  from 
Mexico  and  it  became  the  national  eye-opener,  so  early  Portu- 
guese travellers  returned  to  Lisbon  in  ships  laden  with  rich 
Brazilian  coffee,  mellow  sugar  and  rum.  Soon  the  two  shores 
of  the  Atlantic  were  so  close  that  the  Portuguese  and  Brazilian 
cuisines  were  scarcely  distinguishable.  Portugal  learned  to  cook 
bananas  and  eat  goibada,  the  guava  jelly  that  is  Brazil's  national 
dessert,  and  before  long  she  was  putting  coconut  in  everything 
and  sprinkling  snowy  mandioca  meal  on  black  beans  a  Brazileira. 

But  in  spite  of  all  these  out-land  influences  the  cooking  of 
Portugal  remains  basically  native,  and  as  marine  as  that  of 
Scandinavia.  In  place  of  the  chicken-and-egg  diet  of  mother 
Spain,  Lusitania  subsists  on  lobster  and  fish  roe,  oysters,  shrimp 
and  whitebait.  This  North  Atlantic  whitebait  is  eel  spawn,  so 
fat  and  toothsome  that  no  other  can  compare  with  it.  In  the 
seaports  it  is  eaten  as  commonly  as  spaghetti  in  Naples;  and 
oddly  enough,  when  boiled  white  and  plump  this  eel  whitebait 
resembles  the  Neapolitan  staff  of  life. 

Oysters  sometimes  begin  both  main  meals,  and  are  so  plenti- 
ful that  the  over-production  is  shipped  to  England  and  France, 
where  this  luscious  bivalve  is  distinguished  from  all  others  by 
its  delicate  sea  green  tint.  The  bulk  of  oysters  consumed  in 
France  are  Portugaises  de  Claire  and  selected  Verts  Portugaises. 

Shrimp  are  as  common  here  as  mosquitoes  in  New  Jersey. 
They  go  into  most  sauces  and  accompany  lobster  every  day  in 


PORTUGUESE  219 

every  way.  Both  of  these  crickets  of  the  deep,  boiled  red,  appear 
alongside  the  ever  present  sardine  in  the  characteristic  national 
bouquet  do  mar,  which  is  more  of  a  seafood  cornucopia  than  a 
bouquet,  for  it  is  crammed  to  overflowing  with  mussels,  octopi, 
ray,  squid,  eel,  crabs,  cod  and  any  other  foolish  fish  that  swims 
close  enough  to  the  craggy  coast  to  be  caught. 

Cod-fish  (bacalhao)  is  the  marine  mainstay,  and  one  of  the 
country's  leading  products.  In  Brazil  the  Portuguese  are  com- 
monly called  "sellers  of  cod,"  or  more  frankly  just  "cod-fish," 
even  as  the  Brazilians  in  turn  are  called  "monkeys"  by  their 
Argentine  neighbors.  The  catch  is  salted  down  after  being  split 
through  the  middle,  flattened  out,  rubbed  with  salt  and  then 
dried  so  that  it  resembles  a  kite  or  a  jib  sail.  Every  kitchen  has 
its  codfish  flapping  in  a  corner  and  hunks  are  cut  handily  off 
it  to  plop  into  the  soup  or  stew  or  to  be  more  respectfully  treated 
as  the  piece  de  resistance.  Salt  cod  grilled,  and  seasoned  with 
Portuguese  olive  oil,  wine  vinegar  and  a  palmful  of  whole  garlic 
cloves,  peeled,  is  something  to  write  home  about.  A  touch  of 
garlic  and  the  whole  world  grins,  but  only  to  show  its  ignorance. 

The  day's  menu  of  Portugal  is  quite  as  vinous  as  Spain's, 
though  the  wines  are  not  nearly  so  good,  excepting  port,  which 
is  specially  fortified  and  sometimes  flavored  for  export  to  Eng- 
land. The  anis  liqueur  of  Spain  is  replaced  by  white  rum  from 
Brazil,  and  this  is  often  drunk  before  breakfast,  especially  by 
the  hardy  fisherfolk.  The  first  meal  of  the  day  is  meager  enough, 
perhaps  the  plainest  of  continental  breakfasts.  It  is  called  just 
cafe,  and  consists  of  little  more  than  the  ebony  Brazilian  coffee 
percolated  through  a  muslin  sack — or  if  no  sack  is  handy,  a 
clean  sock  will  do.  A  chunk  of  bread  goes  with  the  coffee, 
butter  or  not,  for  cream  is  as  scarce  in  Portugal  as  in  Spain, 
and  consequently  its  best  cheese,  Traz-os-Montes,  is  made  of 
ewe's  milk. 

Meals  are,  of  course,  a  matter  of  money,  so  the  city  elect 


220  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

of  Lisbon  and  Oporto  sometimes  breakfast  better,  but  the  bulk 
of  Portuguese  subsist  by  manual  labor,  the  men  hauling  nets 
or  tending  the  fields,  the  women  gutting  and  preserving  the  fish 
or  working  alongside  their  men  on  the  farm.  Rising  before 
dawn  to  get  busy  in  the  old-time  Ben  Franklin  fashion,  naturally 
there  is  little  dallying  over  breakfast.  In  the  cities,  too,  the 
women  do  most  of  the  work,  dressed  in  jaunty  pancake  hats 
they  even  conduct  the  street  cars.  The  fishwives  of  Lisbon  are 
as  famous  as  the  herring  women  of  Scotland,  and  as  strong 
smelling.  Waggish  mermaids  ashore,  they  get  themselves  up 
gaudily  in  flat  bonnets  sometimes  trimmed  with  sea-shells, 
anemones,  starfish,  coral  or  seaweed,  always  picturesque,  from 
acid  green  shoulder  shawl  to  colorful  sea-wetted  skirt.  They 
lug  around  great  baskets  of  dripping  whitebait  or  sardines,  go 
hawking  them  up  and  down  the  residential  hills,  setting  up 
raucous  siren  cries  and  hurling  oaths  for  caresses  at  one  another. 
Or  they  load  a  cart  with  soggy  baskets  of  the  morning  catch 
from  the  scaly  deep  and  propel  them  by  donkey  power  to  the 
canning  factories.  Shrimps  and  cod  are  their  special  care,  once 
the  men  drag  their  nets  ashore.  Expertly  the  women  gut  and 
preserve  the  shining,  flipping  mess,  setting  aside  all  smaller  fry 
of  little  commercial  value  to  take  home  and  feast  upon,  as  do 
the  Maine  fishermen  who  have  thereby  come  to  believe  that 
baby  lobsters  and  even  tender  minnows  are  the  tastiest  of  sea- 
fruit. 

Besides  being  blasphemous,  these  voluble  Lusitanian  fish- 
wives are  very  religious.  Saint  Anthony  is  their  patron,  and 
oddly  enough  he  protects  both  fishermen  and  cooks  alike.  In 
every  seacoast  town  there  is  a  shrine  to  this  saint  who  does  double 
service,  and  there  the  temporarily  widowed  fish  wives  rush  at 
the  first  sign  of  an  approaching  storm  to  drop  on  their  knees  in 
fish-scaly  skirts  and  pray  for  the  safe  return  of  their  mates  out 
of  the  angry  sea. 


PORTUGUESE  221 

A  wooden  or  plaster  statue  of  Antonio,  as  the  saint  is  called 
at  home,  is  set  on  every  kitchen  shelf  to  beam  his  benign  bless- 
ings down  on  the  concoction  of  the  day's  fish  chowder.  He 
counts  the  onions  and  carrots  that  go  into  the  stew  and  stays  the 
cook's  hand  when  just  the  right  amount  of  pepper  has  been 
added.  So  if  the  dish  doesn't  turn  out  exactly  right  it  is  Santo 
Antonio's  holy  fault  and  the  housewife  hotly  yanks  the  saint 
down  from  his  perch,  turns  him  up  like  a  bad  boy  and  spanks 
him  with  her  slipper  for  the  failure.  If  a  dish  burns  or  dis- 
pleases the  master  she  takes  Antonio  out  to  the  well  and  hangs 
him  head  down  in  it,  in  dire  disgrace — for  the  fault  is  obviously 
his  and  never  hers. 

Lunch  along  this  craggy  seacoast  begins  more  often  than 
not  with  delectable  raw  oysters,  fresh  from  the  clear  waters  of 
the  sea,  served  in  their  shells  with  lemon  and  pepper  fresh- 
ground  from  the  wooden  mill  on  the  table.  But  inland,  espe- 
cially in  towns,  the  standard  appetite  opener  is  fiambres,  frios, 
or  cold  cuts,  taking  the  place  of  the  more  elaborate  Spanish 
entremesas;  sliced  native  salamis  always,  radishes,  olives,  fresh 
butter  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  sardines  and  shrimp,  with  plenty  of 
pepper  sauce,  mustard  and  peppy  condiments.  And  by  the  way, 
the  pepper  sauce  of  Portugal  is  not  to  be  sneezed  at.  It  comes 
via  Brazil,  and  is  quickly  prepared  at  the  table,  for  it  is  simply 
red  and  green  chilis  mashed  into  fresh  juice  of  limes  preferably, 
or  lemons,  with  a  wooden  spoon.  A  trickle  of  this  stimulating 
sauce  goes  into  everything. 

The  name  of  the  midday  meal  is  almoco,  which  proves  its 
twinship  with  the  Hispanic  almuerzo,  but  fish  here  often  takes 
precedence  over  the  Spanish  egg  dishes,  and  both  are  combined 
in  shrimp  or  oyster  omelets.  Fish  in  all  fashions,  from  broiled 
bacalhao  (codfish)  through  peixe  escabeche  (pickled  fish),  to 
linguado  (sole)  with  shrimp  sauce.  Then  eggs  or  not.  Bifes 
follow,  of  course,  mostly  cooked  with  onion,  and  varied  by  pork, 


222  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

veal  and  mutton  on  occasion.  Chicken  in  aspic,  young  turkey 
stuffed  with  chestnut  dressing,  or  preferably  a  game-bird  pie, 
pastelao  de  cacabrava.  Wines  white  and  red,  drunk  in  as  great 
quantity  as  in  Spain,  though  the  ordinary  ones  are  inferior  in 
quality  and  variety. 

Dry  Bucellas  (similar  to  Rhine  wine),  or  Collares  are  the 
favorite  whites,  with  rivals  in  Arinto,  Termo,  Carcavellos.  Both 
sweet  and  dry  wines  are  produced  in  the  vicinity  of  Lisbon  and 
exported  in  the  name  of  this  capital  city,  though  locally  they  are 
known  as  Palmella  and  Inglezhinos  (little  English  ones).  Bucel- 
las closely  resembles  Rhine  wine  because  it  is  grown  on  vines 
originally  transplanted  from  the  Rhineland. 

The  vin  ordinaire,  or  vinho  do  pais,  is  labeled  Consumo.  It 
grows  in  the  Douro  valley  near  the  Alto  Douro,  where  the 
celebrated  port  wines  are  produced.  It  is  a  natural  dry  red  of 
low  price  that  stands  shipment  well,  has  a  flavor  all  its  own, 
similar  to  Montpellier  from  which  eau-de-vie  is  made  in  France. 
Among  the  best  known  table'  reds  are  Collares,  Lavradio, 
Lamego,  Torres  Vedras  and  Moncaon;  but  the  Portuguese  them- 
selves have  a  palate  for  young  wines,  called  vinho  verde,  green 
wine,  or  for  vinho  virgem,  virgin  wine,  that  comes  in  large 
clay  bottles  and  is  seldom  shipped  abroad.  The  taste  for  them 
must  be  acquired,  the  same  as  a  taste  for  Spanish  manzanilla, 
young  white  sherry,  though  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  is  almost  neces- 
sary to  put  in  a  full  day  at  hard  manual  labor  in  order  to 
develop  a  thirst  for  such  strong,  crude  potations. 

Late  in  the  afternoon  these  astringent  wines  of  peculiar 
flavor,  fixed  up  with  herbs  and  spirits,  are  sometimes  drunk  as 
aperitifs,  but  more  often  local  brandy  or  Brazilian  rum  is  gulped 
down  in  the  bars  with  sapid  empadinhas  all  in  one  bite.  These 
empadinhas  are  succulent  pasties  filled  with  olives,  bits  of  fish, 
game,  mushrooms,  any  luscious  tidbit  surrounded  by  juicy  gravy 
and  enclosed  in  pie  crust.    They  are  a  considerable  refinement 


PORTUGUESE  223 

of  the  individual  pork,  veal  and  bird  pies  served  flabby  and 
cold  in  London  pubs.  "Muito  saboroso,"  very  savoury,  say  the 
Portuguese,  downing  another  almost  without  tasting  it.  They 
are  served  piping,  as  their  brother  empanadas  of  Spain,  from  a. 
special  hot-box  standing  beside  the  bar,  and  some  of  the  sea-food 
concoctions  are  beyond  compare;  one  is  a  tantalizing  bite  of 
boiled  shrimp  enclosed  in  melodious  golden  batter  mixed  with 
the  essence  of  olive.  Distinctive  and  delicious — a  cut  above  our 
own  soggy  canapes. 

In  the  Northern  ports  a  sea  oddity  serves  as  a  "piece"  be- 
tween meals.  This  is  a  meaty  mussel  torn  from  its  hiding  place 
among  submerged  rocks  by  the  bushel  and  consumed  raw  by 
the  plateful,  even  as  orisons,  sea  urchins,  are,  all  along  the 
Mediterranean.  The  Portuguese  mussel  is  about  the  length, 
thickness  and  shape  of  your  forefinger,  but  it  looks  more  like  a 
leg,  a  tiny  stuffed  doll's  leg.  Its  fleshy  marrow  is  encased  in  a 
black  silken  stocking  that  ends  in  a  polished  patent  leather  boot, 
its  shell,  worn  neatly  and  the  exact  shape  of  a  shoe.  To  eat  this 
exceptional  bit  of  sea-food  the  stocking  must  be  first  rolled  down 
to  get  at  the  shapely  white  calf  that  tastes  something  like 
scallops.  Beside  its  salt  sea  succulency  the  sea  urchin  of  the 
Mediterranean  is  a  mere  nose-thumbing  gamin.  There  is  a 
Cinderella  stateliness  and  charm  about  this  sea  leg  that  mellows 
the  accompanying  wine  itself,  though  sometimes  the  shining 
black  stockings  are  sadly  wrinkled,  for  want  of  garters. 

At  dinner  time,  jantar,  as  the  last  meal  of  the  day  is  called, 
the  oyster-gorger  falls  to  with  lemon  and  pepper-grinder  again. 
If  he  has  no  nonsense  about  him  and  hasn't  been  affected  by 
the  foreign  beer  and  aperitifs  of  Lisbon  and  Oporto  he  will  dine 
at  a  native  restaurant  in  the  hearty  style  of  Portuguez  antiga, 
in  an  old-time  atmosphere  as  homey  as  an  Italian  kitchen.  The 
tables  are  served  by  waiters  in  fancy  vests  and  shirt  sleeves,  a 
respected  custom  even  encouraged  by  past  kings  and  princes. 


224  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

They  are  informal,  like  Italian,  Chinese  and  all  good  eating- 
houses,  where  the  diner  feels  free  to  go  first  to  the  kitchen,  lift 
the  pot  lids,  savor  his  dish  and  consult  the  cook.  The  floor  is 
kept  freshly  sawdusted,  like  English  chop  houses  of  old.  Noth- 
ing ritzy  here,  and  yet  no  better  menu  at  the  Ritz: 

Appetizer:  Dry  tawny  Madeira 

Bread  soup 

A  pie  of  beef,  bacon  and  crisp  snips  of  pork 

Cod  boiled  with  potatoes  and  onions,  decorated  with  shrimps 
grilled  in  their  jackets,  and  melted  butter  sauce 

White  Wine 

Pig's  head  in  aspic 

Wild  duck  with  wild  rice  Sliced  oranges 

Red  Wine 

Sonhos  (Dreams,  Cream  puffs) 
Ice  cream  Fruits 

Cheese:  Traz  os  Montes,  or  requeijao,  a  half  dried  curd,  also  of 
mutton  milk,  wrapped  in  a  fresh  green  leaf 

Black  coffee  Cognac 

Liqueurs 

A  meaty  meal  and  also  a  fairly  intoxicating  one,  from  the 
variety  of  drinks  served  with  it. 

Pork  in  some  form  appears  at  every  jantar.  It  is  most  ap- 
plauded when  it  comes  on  roasted  at  a  tender,  suckling  age, 
then  known  as  leitao.  The  name  itself  was  taken  in  early  days 
by  a  proud  and  prolific  family  of  Lusitania  who  still  own  one 
of  the  leading  department  stores  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Casa  Leitao. 
It  is  well  known  that  the  Romans  started  the  custom  of  taking 
to  themselves  as  surnames  the  names  of  their  favorite  fowls, 


PORTUGUESE  225 

game  and  foods.  The  Portuguese  being  first  cousins  to  the 
Romans,  followed  suit. 

In  the  "Arte  de  Cosinha,"  Portugal's  classic  cook  book,  Joao 
da  Matta  points  this  out,  saying  it  must  be  so,  since  the  country 
swarms  with  gentry  named  Messrs.  Duck,  Guinea-hen,  Sheep, 
Lamprey,  Codfish,  Sausage,  Chicken,  Pigeon,  etc.,  yet  not  one  of 
them  is  named  after  the  kangaroo,  elephant,  monkey,  lion  or 
any  other  animal  that  the  Portuguese  don't  actually  eat. 

The  wines  for  dinner  are  those  already  named  for  lunch, 
though  better  vintages  are  usually  served  at  night.  With  the 
dessert,  often  consisting  of  the  distinguished  grapes  from  which 
port  itself  is  made,  or  the  favorite  preserved  apricots,  sweet  white 
wines  of  Setuval  and  Grandjo  come  on.  The  Setuval  is  a  Muscat 
and  the  Grandjo  is  Portugal's  finest  Sauterne.  Portuguese  cham- 
pagne is  no  better  than  Spain's,  so  those  who  can  afford  it  drink 
French.  Port,  of  course,  is  not  drunk  in  Portugal.  It  is  looked 
upon  with  the  same  condescension  or  disdain  as  that  with  which 
the  French  contemplate  their  sparkling  Burgundy,  manufactured 
exclusively  for  export.  For  as  a  matter  of  fact  the  port  doctored 
up  for  shipment  to  England  bears  but  little  resemblance  to  the 
natural  article  after  it  has  been  doped  with  elderberries  powdered 
and  dried,  reinforced  with  20%  brandy  by  volume  and  colored 
with  quebracho  extract,  from  Brazil  wood,  which  also  gives  to 
Argentine  wines  a  rich,  ruby  color  but  an  awfully  bad  reputa- 
tion at  home.  Much  of  the  natural  ruby  of  port,  however,  comes 
from  long  treading  of  the  grape-must  in  the  vats.  The  Portu- 
guese go  about  this  treading  as  heartily  as  turkey  cocks.  They 
bathe  well  before  diving  naked  into  the  wine  vats,  and  then 
line  up  in  dance  figures,  four  to  eight  men  doing  intricate 
grape-squashing  quadrilles  with  abandon,  for  orchestras  of 
guitars,  pipes,  hautboys,  bag-pipes  even,  are  actually  hired  by 
vineyard  proprietors  to  keep  the  wine-pressing  boys  at  their 
rhythmic  grape-dancing  four  hours  at  a  stretch,  while  the  fore- 
man of  the  shift  sings  out  the  figures. 


SOUPS 

(Sop  as) 


SOUP  OF  A  THOUSAND  INFANTS 

(Sopa  de  Mil  Infantes) 

i  quart  chicken  broth  %  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper  l/z  teaspoon  minced 
i  egg  white  chevril  or  parsley 

I  whole  egg 

Season  broth,  mix  in  egg  white,  bring  to  a  boil,  let  settle,  and 
strain  through  cloth.  Slightly  beat  egg  and  thoroughly  mix  with 
bread  crumbs.  Bring  broth  to  a  boil,  remove  from  flame,  drop 
in  bread-egg  mixture  a  bit  at  a  time,  beating  rapidly  with  an 
egg  whip.    Serve  at  once  with  a  little  chevril  in  each  plate. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

(Sopa  de  Gallinha) 

i  fowl,  jointed  i  onion,  chopped 

3  quarts  water  2  tomatoes,  without  seeds, 

1  tablespoon  salt  chopped 
Yi  garlic  clove,  minced  l/2  cup  rice 

2  carrots,  diced  Pepper 

Bring  fowl  slowly  to  a  boil.  Add  salt,  and  skim.  Simmer 
2j4  hours,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  simmer  until  done. 
Skim  off  fat.    Serve  with  a  piece  of  chicken  in  each  soup  plate. 

The  chicken  and  rice  soup  of  Brazil  is  called  canja,  literally 
rice-cream.    Brazilians  are  as  fond  of  this  dish  as  we  are  of  ice 

226 


PORTUGUESE  227 

cream.  Its  name  has  been  incorporated  into  their  language  and 
is  heard  every  day  in  the  exclamation  "E  canja!"  "It's  easy!" 
Easy  to  do,  easy  money,  anything  "nice  and  soft"  as  we  would 
say.  In  Portugal  and  Brazil  "E  sopa!"  is  used  in  exactly  the 
same  way.    "It's  the  soup!"    Our  "easy  as  pie"  is  its  synonym. 

SHRIMP  SOUP 

{Sopa  de  Camarao) 

1  pound  shrimp  1  small  onion,  chopped 

iYz  quarts  boiling  water  x/i  garlic  clove,  minced 

Salt  6  sorrel  leaves,  chopped 
l/s  teaspoon  pepper  (optional) 

3  tablespoons  butter  l/i  cup  tomato  juice 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Croutons 

Drop  shrimp  into  boiling  water,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cook  20  minutes.  Strain  and  save  liquid.  Shell  shrimp, 
remove  black  veins,  and  cut  up.  Save  heads  and  shells.  Melt 
butter,  add  olive  oil,  and  fry  onion  and  garlic,  slowly,  without 
browning.  Add  sorrel,  tomato  juice,  shrimp  liquor,  and  shrimp. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Grind  shells  and  heads  as  fine  as  possible,  mix 
with  a  little  of  the  shrimp  liquor  and  press  all  possible  through 
a  sieve  and  add  to  the  soup.  Simmer  until  soup  is  well  blended. 
Add  lemon  juice,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

ALMOND  SOUP 

{Sopa  de  Amendoas) 

%  pound  sweet  almonds         Salt 

2  bitter  almonds  Granulated  sugar 

1  quart  milk,  scalded  2  tablespoons  butter 

Croutons 

Blanch  and  peel  almonds  and  grind  to  a  paste,  adding  water, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  to  keep  mass  from  oiling.    Add  a  little 


228  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

of  the  hot  milk  to  the  almond  paste,  mixing  with  a  wooden 

spoon,  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  adding  more  milk,  as 

necessary,  to  rub  all  through  sieve.    Put  mixture  in  double  boiler 

and  cook  15-20  minutes,  stirring  constantly  with  wooden  spoon. 

Add  remaining  hot  milk,  season  with  salt  and  then  with  a  little 

sugar.    Add  butter.    Lay  croutons  in  hot  tureen  and  pour  soup 

over. 

PRINCES'  CHOWDER 

(Caldeirada  de  Principe s) 

2  onions,  sliced  8  shrimp,  shelled 

l/2  garlic  clove,  minced  1  slice,  each,  4  varieties  fish 

lA  pound  butter  2  dozen  mussels 

%  pound  ham,  chopped  lA  bay  leaf 

1  large  tomato,  chopped  %  teaspoon  fresh  ground  pepper 

6  sorrel  leaves,  minced  Salt 

(optional)  8  oysters 

1  small  eel,  skinned  and  sliced  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Slowly  fry  onions  and  garlic  in  butter  without  browning; 
add  ham  and  fry,  then  tomato;  add  sorrel,  eel,  shrimp,  and  fish. 
Turn  in  the  mixture  and  fry,  shaking  the  pan,  until  heated 
through.  Meanwhile,  have  the  mussels  steamed  open,  and  the 
meats  removed.  Add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  liquid  left  in 
pan  to  make  1J/2  quarts;  drop  in  the  steamed  mussels  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Strain  and  pour  liquid  over  frying  fish  mixture. 
Set  over  slow  heat  and  simmer  10  minutes,  adding  bay  leaf, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Add  oysters  with  their  liquor  and  simmer 
until  they  crinkle.  Add  lemon  juice  and  serve,  putting  a  bit 
of  each  fish  and  sea  food  in  each  serving.  (The  mussels  are  to 
be  thrown  away.) 

This  dish  is  all  the  tastier  if  cooked  with  sea  water,  accord- 
ing to  the  practice  of  coastal  Portuguese. 


PORTUGUESE  229 

DRY  SOUP 
(Sopa  Secca) 

1  quart  soup  stock  plenty     of    mint,    tied     to- 

Salt  (sparingly)  gether) 

Pepper  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

Sprigs  of  sweet  herbs   (parsley,  Slices  stale  bread,  without  crusts 
tarragon,    bay,    thyme    and 

Mix  all  together,  adding  enough  bread  to  make  very  thick. 
Bring  to  a  boil  over  very  slow  fire;  remove  herbs.  Turn  into 
a  casserole  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown  and  crusty. 
Serve  at  once. 

PORTUGUESE  SOUP 
{Sopa  a  Portugueza) 

This  soup  is  a  meal  in  itself  and  is  prepared  in  three  distinct 
operations,  as  follows: 

(A) 

3  pounds  lean  beef  1  onion,  quartered 

l/2  pound  salt  pork  2  quarts  cold  water 

Vz  pound  ham  Salt 

Cover  beef,  salt  pork,  ham,  and  onion  with  water.  Bring 
slowly  to  a  boil  and  add  a  little  salt.  Skim,  and  cook  like  any 
beef  broth,  for  3  hours  or  more. 

(B) 

2  cups  cooked  barley  1  celery  root 

1  smoked  beef  sausage  1  cup  green  peas 

1  cabbage   heart  1  cup  green  beans 

2  turnips  6  one-inch  cubes  yellow 
2  carrots  squash  or  pumpkin 

Salt 

Cover  all  ingredients  with  water  and  cook  until  tender. 


23o  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

(C) 

Half  an  hour  before  the  preceding  meat  and  vegetable  soups 
are  ready  soak  2  slices  bread,  without  crust,  in  broth  from  the 
beef  pot.  Mash  bread  to  paste,  add  2  cups  broth  and  cook  with 
6  mint  leaves  and  a  blade  of  mace  until  thick.  Remove  mint 
and  mace,  and  pour  in  bottom  of  a  hot  soup  tureen. 

Drain  vegetables  and  save  liquid.  Slice  sausage,  cut  cabbage 
in  portions,  dice  turnips,  carrots,  and  celery  root.  Lay  the  barley 
on  top  of  the  bread  puree  in  the  tureen.  Then  lay  in  half  the 
turnips,  carrots,  celery,  beans  and  peas,  followed  by  the  sliced 
sausage  and  the  rest  of  the  vegetables,  reserving  the  cabbage  and 
squash  for  the  top.  Skim  fat  from  meat  broth,  mix  with  vege- 
table broth,  and  pour  mixture  of  the  two  broths  gently  into 
tureen.  Lay  beef  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  salt  pork  and 
ham,  to  be  cut  in  portions  and  served  with  soup.  Serve  a  dish 
of  tomato  sauce  on  the  side  to  be  added  to  soup  as  desired. 


FISH 

(Peixe) 


FRESH  COD  FISH  WITH  RICE 
(Bacalao  Fresco  com  Arroz) 

il/i  pounds  cod  fish  l/i  garlic  clove,  minced 

Salt  and  pepper  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

Yz  cup  white  wine  Vi  teaspoon    minced    parsley 

1  onion,  chopped  %  cup  butter,  melted 

1  cup  rice 

Slice  fish  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  in  a 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  wine.  Add  x/i  the  onion,  garlic, 
tomatoes  and  parsley.  Pour  1  teaspoon  of  butter  on  each  slice 
and  let  stand  l/2  hour.  Wash  rice  through  several  waters  and 
cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  nearly  dry.  Cover  and  reduce 
heat  until  light  and  fluffy.  Fry  remaining  garlic  and  onion  in 
butter;  add  remaining  tomato  and  parsley  and  fry.  Add  suf- 
ficient salted  boiling  water  to  cook  the  rice  (a  little  less  than  a 
quart).  Add  wine  and  let  boil  rapidly.  Add  rice,  a  little  at  a 
time  in  order  not  to  stop  the  boiling.  Cook  rapidly,  uncovered, 
until  the  rice  is  swollen,  and  nearly  dry.  Cover  and  reduce  heat 
until  rice  is  tender  and  fluffy.  Meanwhile  bake  the  fish.  Heap 
a  pile  of  rice  high  on  each  slice  of  fish. 


231 


232  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

BAKED  FISH 

(Peixe  Assado) 

i   (2-pound)   fresh  water  fish     2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Salt  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  Yi  cups  sea  food  or  fish  broth 

54  garlic  clove,  minced  1  tablespoon  white  wine  vinegar 

!/4  bay  leaf  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

%  teaspoon  pepper  Buttered  crumbs 

Salt  the  fish  after  cleaning,  and  set  it  aside  for  1  hour;  then 
wash  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Lay  it  in  a  baking  dish  and  com- 
mence baking.  Meanwhile  have  ready  this  sauce:  Fry  onion, 
garlic,  bay  leaf  and  pepper  in  olive  oil  without  browning.  Add 
flour  and  stir.  Add  heated  fish  broth  and  vinegar,  stir  and 
simmer  until  quite  thick,  salting  to  taste.  After  baking  8 
minutes  remove  fish  from  oven  and  mask  thickly  with  the 
sauce.  Sprinkle  evenly  with  parsley,  and  then  with  the  crumbs. 
Return  to  the  oven  and  bake  until  fish  is  tender  and  crumbs  are 
brown.    If  any  of  the  sauce  is  left  over  lay  it  around  the  fish 

and  serve. 

FISH  LUSITANIA  STYLE 

(Pescada  a  Lusitana) 

Y2  pound  fish  3  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper  Butter 

1  egg  yolk,  beaten  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

From  the  tail  end  of  a  fish  have  slices  cut  the  thickness  of  a 
fifty-cent  coin,  removing  bones.  Have  ready  the  mashed  potatoes, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mixed  well  with  egg  yolk 
and  Parmesan  cheese.  Melt  3  tablespoons  butter  in  a  baking 
pan,  and  stir  into  it  the  lemon  juice.  Season  fish  slices  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  lay  side  by  side  in  the  pan.  Mask  each 
slice  with  a  thick  layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  neatly  smoothing 


PORTUGUESE  233 

with  a  knife  repeatedly  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  for  about  10  minutes,  or  until  fish  is 
cooked  and  potatoes  are  golden  brown.  The  name  of  this  dish 
is  derived  from  the  ancient  Latin,  Lusitania,  for  the  land  that 
is  now  Portugal. 

FISHWIFE'S  STEW 
{Caldeirada  a  Pescadora) 

2  pounds    assorted    fish,    sliced  1  dozen  sorrel  leaves  (optional) 

(such  as  flounder,  bass  and  1  bay  leaf 

blackfish)  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

lA  cup  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  onion,  sliced  1V2  cups  white  wine 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced  Thinly  sliced  stale  bread 

Lay  fish  slices  in  saucepan,  add  oil,  vegetables,  herbs,  vinegar 
and  wine  and  shake  pan  to  mix  evenly.  Season.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  cover  closely  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Cover  bottom  of 
a  casserole  with  bread  slices,  lay  fish  on  top  and  pour  pan  con- 
tents over.  Cover  closely  and  set  over  very  slow  heat  for  15 
minutes.    Serve  in  the  casserole. 

Caldeirada  a  Pescadora  should  be  cooked  on  the  high  poop 
of  a  Portuguese  fishing  boat,  by  a  brawny,  nut-brown  fisherman, 
or  his  wife,  with  the  odors  of  the  herbs  mingling  with  the  clear- 
ing sea  mist  of  early  morning  to  whet  an  appetite  already  raven- 
ous from  strenuous  fishing.  Anything  from  net  or  hook  may 
go  into  the  earthenware  olha — eel  or  ray  as  well  as  the  choice 
of  the  catch — sole,  roballo  (sturgeon)  or  salmonete  (red-mullet). 
The  cooking  fire  should,  by  rights,  be  slow  charcoal  burning  in 
a  low  iron  brazier. 


234  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SMALL  MACKEREL  GRILLED 

(Sarda  Fresca  Grelhadd) 

4  small  mackerel  i  tablespoon  onion  juice 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil         Salt  and  pepper 

Juice  of  Y2  lemon  i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Split  mackerel  the  entire  length.  Remove  backbones,  heads 
and  tails.  Wash  and  dry  the  fillets.  Lay  in  dish.  Mix  olive 
oil,  lemon  juice,  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the 
fish,  covering  well.  Let  marinate  2  or  3  hours,  turning  occasion- 
ally. Grill  and  serve  sprinkled  with  parsley.  The  marinating 
liquid  may  be  heated  and  poured  over,  or  they  may  be  spread 
with  melted  butter. 

STUFFED  SALMON 

(Salmao  Recheado) 

1  (3-  to  4-pound)  salmon  16  shrimp,  cooked  and  shelled 

Salt  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  pound  any  white  fish,  whiting,      1  cup  champagne 

porgy,  etc.  2  teaspoons  gelatin 

2  cups  cooked  rice  lA  cup  water 
Yi  cup  fat  1  cup  olive  oil 
Pepper  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

3  eggs  Tarragon  vinegar 

6  oysters  Salmon  roe,  or  other  fish  butter 

Salt  the  salmon  and  let  it  stand  1  hour.  Chop  white  fish, 
saving  head  and  bones.  Press  it  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Press 
rice  through  sieve.  Melt  fat  and  add  white  fish,  rice,  salt,  pepper 
and  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly.  Cut  up  oysters  and  6  of  the  shrimp 
and  add  to  mixture.  Wash  and  dry  salmon  and  stuff  with  mix- 
ture. Sew  opening  and  lay  in  a  baking  pan.  Dot  with  butter 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
(400°F.).    Add  half  the  champagne  and  baste.     Bake  10  min- 


PORTUGUESE  235 

utes  longer,  add  remaining  champagne  and  reduce  heat.  Baste 
frequently  until  fish  is  done.  Transfer  to  a  platter  and  cool. 
Strain  pan  gravy  and  remove  fat.  Cook  head  and  bones  of- 
white  fish,  and  strain  through  cloth,  add  strained  pan  gravy  and 
cook  until  reduced  to  l/2  cup.  Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water  and 
dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add  to  reduced  broth  and  shell  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  in  olive  oil.  Add  seasonings  and  tar- 
ragon vinegar  to  taste.  Blanch  roe,  drain,  dry,  season  and  fry. 
Cool.  Decorate  platter  with  remaining  shrimp,  slices  of  roe 
and  any  green  garnish.    Serve  sauce  in  a  boat. 

MARINATED  FISH,  FRIED 
(Peixe  Frit  a  de  Escabeche) 


4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

i]/2  pounds  fish,  sliced 

1  tablespoon  onion  juice 

Butter 

Vi  garlic  clove,  crushed 

Bread  crumbs 

4  peppercorns,  crushed 

1  egg,  beaten 

Ys  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  white  wine 

Vz  bay  leaf 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

Mix  olive  oil,  lemon  juice,  onion  juice,  garlic,  peppercorns, 
nutmeg,  bay  leaf,  and  salt,  and  beat.  Dip  fish  slices  in  mixture, 
lay  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  remaining  mixture  over.  Marinate  2-3 
hours.  Remove  fish,  drain,  and  wipe  dry.  Save  all  marinating 
liquid  and  strain.  Brush  fish  with  melted  butter,  dip  in  crumbs, 
then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  butter,  drain  on  absorbent 
paper,  and  cool.  Mix  marinating  liquid  with  wine  and  heat  to 
boiling.  Add  parsley  and  minced  onion.  Cool  and  serve  the 
fish  cold  with  sauce  in  a  boat. 

This  is  a  dish  of  the  Iberian  Peninsula,  found  in  Spain,  and 
especially  in  Portugal  and  her  dependencies,  as  well  as  in  Latin 


236  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

America.  It  is  preserved  in  tins  and  canned  at  home.  There 
are  any  number  of  recipes  varying  the  flavor,  and  nearly  every 
fish  is  eligible.  Sometimes  the  egg  and  bread  crumbs  are 
omitted,  the  fish  being  simply  fried  in  butter  or  oil.  In  the 
case  of  eels,  the  wine  is  mixed  with  wine  vinegar. 

ANY  FISH,  SMOTHERED 
(Qualquer  Peixe  Ensopado) 

i  small  onion,  chopped  il/2  pounds  fish,  sliced 
Y2  garlic  clove,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 
i  small  carrot,  grated  i  cup  white  wine 
3  scallions,  chopped  I  cup  fish  broth 
i  large  tomato,  seeded  and         !4  cup  olive  oil  (or  4  table- 
chopped  spoons  butter) 
Y2  bay  leaf  Lemon  slices  sprinkled  with 
1  sprig  parsley  parsley 
1  sprig  celery 

In  a  buttered  pan  make  a  bed  of  vegetables  and  herbs.  Lay 
fish  slices  on  top,  one  slice  overlapping  another.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  in  wine.  Add  broth  made  from  cook- 
ing fish  head.  Cover  closely  and  simmer,  basting  frequently. 
Remove  fish  to  hot  platter.  Discard  herbs;  reduce  pan  liquid; 
add  olive  oil  or  butter.    Mix  well,  and  pour  over.    Serve  lemon 

separately. 
r         J  SOLE  IN  SHRIMP  SAUCE 

(Linguado  em  Molho  de  Camarao) 

1  medium-sized  sole  (flounder)        2  cups  shrimp  liquor 
Y2  pound  shrimp  Salt  and  pepper 

*4  cup  butter  1  dash  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  flour  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Buttered  crumbs 

Have  head  of  sole  and  skin  on  dark  side  removed  by  fish 
dealer.     Shell  shrimp  and  cook  in  boiling  water  15  minutes; 


PORTUGUESE  237 

drain  and  reduce  liquid  to  2  cups.    Melt  2  tablespoons  of  the 

butter,  add  shrimp  and  slowly  fry  until  they  begin  to  color.    Add 

flour,  shrimp  liquor,  seasonings,  and  lemon  juice.    Let  boil  up, 

stirring  gently.    Season  fish  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Lay  in  baking  dish,  skin-side  down.     Dot  with  butter  and  set 

in  medium  hot  oven.    Bake  10  minutes,  basting  with  own  juices. 

Add  boiling-hot  shrimp  sauce,  and  continue  basting  with  sauce. 

When  nearly  done,  scatter  with  buttered  crumbs  and  allow  to 

brown. 

A  FANCY  FISH  DISH 

(Um  Prato  de  Peixe  Especial) 

il/z  pounds  flounder  fillet  1  dozen  oysters,  poached  and 
Salt  and  pepper  drained 

54    teaspoon   minced   parsley  1  dozen  small  shrimp,  cooked 

Fresh  sardines  (or  canned)  3  eggs 

1  cup  cooked  rice  Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  pickled  gherkins,  chopped  lA  cup  Madeira 

Anchovy  fillets  !/4  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

*4  pound  butter 

Have  fillets  split  thin,  the  slices  not  entirely  cut  through. 
Open  slices  on  a  board  with  edges  overlapping  so  they  may  be 
rolled  after  stuffing  is  laid  on.  Trim  to  rectangular  shape. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Clean  and  fillet  sardines. 
Grind  fish  trimmings  with  rice  and  cover  half  the  sardine  fillets 
with  the  mixture,  laying  a  sardine  fillet  on  top  of  each.  Arrange 
these  stuffed  sardines  with  the  pickle  on  the  flounder,  adding 
anchovy  fillets,  oysters  and  shrimp  as  evenly  as  possible,  so  a 
neat  roll  may  be  made.  Brush  well  with  1  beaten  egg.  Roll 
so  that  fillets  of  anchovies  and  sardines  lie  lengthwise.  With  a 
sharp  knife,  cut  roll  down  in  il/2  inch  slices.  Lay  in  buttered 
baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  Madeira. 
Sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese  and  dot  with  butter. 
Beat  potatoes  with  remaining  eggs,  cheese  and  butter  and  spread 


238  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

over  top.    Brush  with  egg.    Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(35o°F.).    Uncover  to  brown. 

SARDINES 

(Sardinhas) 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  lay  in  it  sardines  of  good  size, 
which  have  had  the  loose  silvery  skin  rubbed  off,  and  have  been 
dredged  with  flour.  Put  dabs  of  butter  over  them,  sprinkle  with 
parsley  and  heat  in  a  quick  oven,  being  careful  not  to  dry  them 
out.  They  can  be  served  with  a  hot  tomato  sauce,  or  to  gar- 
nish baked  or  boiled  fish,  one  sardine  being  placed  on  each 

serving  of  fish. 

SARDINE  PIE 

(Torta  de  Sardinhas) 

i  pound  fresh  sardines  Salt  and  pepper 

(tinned  sardines  will  serve)  l/2  pound  lean  pork 

%  pound  flour  l/2  pound  pork  liver 

%  pound  clarified  beef  fat  Cayenne 

4  egg  yolks  l/%  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Ice  water  2  whole  eggs 

Clean  and  scrape  sardines;  cut  off  heads;  gently  take  off 
the  fillets  and  remove  small  bones.  Mix  flour,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
and  beef  fat.  Add  egg  yolks  and  enough  ice  water  to  make  a 
paste  the  consistency  of  bread  dough;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  f/2 
hour.  Grind  pork  and  liver  together  until  very  fine.  Add  salt, 
cayenne  and  nutmeg  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Add  1  egg. 
Roll  out  half  the  flour  paste  to  thickness  of  a  coin  and  line  a 
buttered  baking  tin  with  it.  Place  l/2  meat  mixture  in  this  pie. 
Season  sardine  fillets  and  lay  on  top;  cover  with  rest  of  meat 
mixture.  Roll  out  rest  of  paste  and  cover  the  pie,  wetting  edges 
with  white  of  egg  and  pressing  together.  Pierce  top  crust  with 
pointed  knife  to  let  out  steam.  Brush  over  with  egg  yolk 
beaten  with  1  tablespoon  water,  and  bake. 


PORTUGUESE  239 

SALT  CODFISH  IN  SAUCE 
(Bacalao  em  Molho) 

1  pound  salt  cod  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  large  onion,  chopped  fine  1  onion,  sliced  thin 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  1  sprig  parsley 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  sprig  celery 
Cayenne  2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

Soak  codfish  24  hours,  changing  water  frequently.  Parboil 
10-15  minutes,  remove  and  cut  into  convenient  pieces,  taking  out 
all  visible  bones.  Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  light  brown 
and  tender.  Add  cayenne  and  tomatoes,  onion,  parsley  and 
celery.  Pour  in  1J/2  cups  boiling  water  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes.  Lay  in  the  pieces  of  fish,  baste  and  simmer.  When 
tender,  take  from  the  fire  and  slip  in,  here  and  there,  the  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Shake  the  pan  gently  to  mix,  and  serve,  sliding  the 
contents  of  the  pan  carefully  into  a  deep  hot  platter. 

There  are  forty  recipes  for  cooking  salt  cod. 

SALT  CODFISH  BAKED 
(Bacalao  Assad o) 

il/2  pound  salt  cod  Olive  oil 

Cayenne  Onion  rings 

1  egg,  beaten  Garlic  cloves,  halved 

Bread  crumbs  Red  wine  vinegar 

Parsley  for  garnishing 

Choose  a  thick  slice  of  salt  cod;  soak  in  cold  water  24  hours, 
changing  as  often  as  convenient.  Parboil  10-15  minutes  over  hot 
fire;  drain  and  wipe  dry.  Dash  it  with  cayenne;  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  then  in  crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  olive  oil.  Lay  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  brown  in  oven.  Lay  on  a  hot  platter; 
decorate  with  onion  rings  and  garlic  halves.  Sprinkle  gener- 
ously with  olive  oil  and  vinegar.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 


24o  THE  EUROPEAN   COOKBOOK 

at  once.    If  there  is  to  be  any  delay  in  serving,  the  oil  and  vinegar 

should  be  added  at  the  table,  since  the  crispness  of  the  fish  will 

be  spoiled  if  it  stands  with  the  vinegar  soaking  into  it.    A  sprig 

of  parsley  is  served  with  each  portion,  to  be  nibbled  while  eating 

the  fish. 

SHRIMP  CROQUETTES 

(Croquettes  de  Camarbes) 

i  onion,  sliced  2  eggs 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  12  large  shrimp,  chopped 

1  tablespoon   butter  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  Flour 

1  slice  dry  bread  Bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  milk  Deep  fat  for  frying 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  butter  until  light  brown  and  tender. 
Add  parsley,  moistened  bread,  milk,  1  beaten  cggy  shrimp,  sea- 
sonings and  enough  flour  to  bind.  Mold  into  oval  shapes  and 
allow  to  cool  thoroughly.  Dip  in  beaten  egg}  then  in  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

This  is  one  of  the  dishes  taken  by  Portuguese  traders, 
centuries  ago,  to  Japan,  where,  with  slight  modifications,  it  is 
made  to  this  day,  under  the  name  "Tempura,"  which  identifies 
the  frying  in  batter,  rather  than  the  shrimp,  for  lobsters  and 
other  delicacies  of  the  sea  are  cooked  by  the  same  recipe. 

SHRIMPS  FRIED  IN  BATTER 
{Camarbes  Fritos  em  Mass  a  de  Vinhee) 

1  pound  raw  shrimp  1  egg  white,  beaten 
Salt  and  pepper  1  egg  yolk,  beaten 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Deep  fat  for  frying 
2l/2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Minced  parsley 

1  cup  flour  Quartered  lemons 

Shell  shrimp.  Mix  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  all  but  1 
teaspoon  of  olive  oil.    Beat,  and  mix  with  the  shrimps.    Marinate 


PORTUGUESE  241 

Yz  hour;  drain.  Make  a  batter  with  flour,  egg  white  and  yolk, 
1  teaspoon  olive  oil,  and  enough  tepid  water  to  thin.  Run  tooth- 
picks through  the  shrimp  so  they  are  skewered  together  in  groups 
of  four  or  five.  Dip  the  groups  of  shrimp  into  batter  until  com: 
pletely  covered.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 
Sprinkle  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  quartered  lemons. 

BROWNED  SHRIMPS 

(Camarbes  Torados) 

Choose  large  fresh  shrimps;  wash  well,  letting  them  lie  in 
cold  water  until  free  of  all  sand.  Dry  well  in  a  linen  towel. 
Have  ready  enough  hot  olive  oil  in  a  pan  to  make  a  depth  of 
half  the  thickness  of  a  shrimp.  Heat  to  smoking  point;  drop 
in  shrimps,  one  by  one,  turning  them  often  until  they  are  done. 
Lay  on  brown  paper  in  a  hot  place  to  drain.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  They  are  shelled  at  the 
table.  The  larger  the  shrimps  are,  the  better.  In  Brazil,  where 
gourmets  gorge  on  camaroes  torados  em  casca,  the  best  local 
shrimp,  browned  in  their  shells,  are  netted  at  the  full  of  the 
moon,  are  almost  as  large  and  luscious  as  baby  lobsters.  Don't 
try  this  dish  with  English  prawns  or  you'll  be  vexed. 

SHRIMP  AND  OYSTERS  WITH  MACARONI 
(Camarao  e  Ostras  com  Macarrao) 

1  dozen  large  shrimp  %  pound  butter 

il/i  dozen  oysters  2  slices  bacon,  minced 

1  pound  macaroni  1  large  tomato,  chopped 

Salt  Pepper 

3  small  onions  Juice  l/2  lemon 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Shell  the  shrimps.  Make  sure  there  are  no  pieces  of  shell 
clinging  to  the  oysters.  Cook  shrimp  15  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Meanwhile,  break  the  macaroni  in  short  lengths,  and  drop  into 
rapidly  boiling  salted  water.    Cook  15  minutes,  drain,  and  douse 


242  THE  EUROPEAN   COOKBOOK 

with  i  cup  of  cold  water.  Poach  oysters  in  own  liquor  until 
they  crinkle.  Slice  onions  and  cut  slices  in  two;  fry  with  garlic 
in  butter  until  they  begin  to  be  tender.  Add  bacon  and  fry. 
Add  tomato  and  seasonings,  i  cup  of  the  shrimp  water  and  ^4 
cup  of  the  oyster  liquor.  Simmer  until  well  blended;  add  lemon 
juice  and  parsley.  Mix  oysters,  shrimp,  the  well  drained  maca- 
roni, and  the  sauce  together.  Heat  until  the  flavors  are  well 
mingled. 

The  Portuguese  save  the  heads  and  shells  of  the  shrimps, 
grind,  press  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce. 

SHRIMP  AND  FLOUNDER  MAYONNAISE 
(Mayonnaise  de  Camarao  e  Linguado) 

i  pound  fillet  of  flounder  i  head  lettuce 

Salt  and  pepper  i%  cups  mayonnaise 

*4  cup  butter,  melted  2  dozen  olives,  stoned 

Juice  of  3  lemons  Mixed  pickles 

2  dozen  shrimp  6  slices  pickled  beets 
Yi  teaspoon  pimpernel,  minced          3  hard-boiled  eggs,  halved 

1    teaspoon    minced    parsley  6  anchovy  fillets 

6  capers 

Put  fillets  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  pour  on  melted  butter  and  J^  the  lemon  juice.  Place 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  and  baste.  Cover  after  10  minutes 
so  they  will  not  brown.  Cook  shrimp  20  minutes  in  boiling, 
salted  water.  Cool,  shell,  and  remove  black  vein.  Drain  fillets 
and  cool.  Combine  lemon  juice,  pimpernel,  parsley  and  season 
both  fish  and  shrimp  with  the  mixture.  Chill.  When  ready 
to  serve  chop  least  attractive  shrimp  and  slice  fine  an  equal 
quantity  of  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  together  with  a  little  of  the 
mayonnaise.  Cut  fillets  in  service  portions  and  lay  on  a  chilled 
platter.     Put  some  of  shrimp-lettuce  mixture  on  each  portion. 


PORTUGUESE  243 

Mask  with  mayonnaise.  Decorate  platter  with  remaining  ma- 
terials, putting  a  bit  of  mayonnaise  on  each  egg  half  and  1 
caper  within  a  curled  fillet  of  anchovy  on  the  mayonnaise. 

Save  shrimp  liquor  and  pan  gravy  from  fish  for  making 
ovos  com  molho  de  peixe,  eggs  in  fish  sauce  (see  recipe). 

SORREL  SAUCE  FOR  FISH 
(Molho  de  A  zed  as  Para  Peixe) 

1  quart  sorrel  2  teaspoons  flour 

Salt  Fish  broth  or  pan  gravy 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  egg  yolk,  beaten 

Use  only  the  sorrel  leaves;  cook  in  a  little  salted  boiling  water 
until  tender;  drain  and  press  out  water.  Press  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir.  Add  gravy  from  fish 
pan  or  broth  from  boiled  fish,  and  stir  in  the  sorrel.  The  con- 
sistency should  be  slightly  thinner  than  ordinary  gravy.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  to  boiling,  remove  from  flame,  and 
stir  in  egg  yolk. 


EGGS 

(Ovos) 


OVOS  COM  MOLHO  DO  PEIXE 

Vi  garlic  clove,  minced  2  cups  fish  or  seafood  broth 

1  small  onion,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  halved 

1  tomato,  chopped  Buttered  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Fry  garlic  and  onion  slowly  in  olive  oil.  Add  tomato  and 
continue  frying.  Blend  in  flour.  Add  previously  heated  fish 
broth,  slowly.  Stir  and  simmer  until  mixture  thickens.  Season. 
Arrange  egg  halves  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  sauce  over, 
then  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  parsley.  Brown  lightly 
in  oven.  The  fish  broth  may  be  enriched  by  boiling  head  and 
bones  of  a  fish  in  a  little  water,  afterward  straining  through 
cloth  and  reducing  to  required  quantity  by  boiling. 

EGGS  IN  PORTUGUESE  STYLE 
{Ovos  a  Portugueza) 

Heat  olive  oil  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  minced  garlic.  When 
the  garlic  is  a  delicate  brown  remove  with  a  skimmer.  Add  to 
the  oil  5  or  6  thick  tomato  slices.  Turn  carefully  in  the  hot  oil 
and  keep  them  shapely.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
put  them  in  a  baking  plate.  With  a  teaspoon  make  little  hollows 
in  the  tomatoes  and  drop  a  fresh  egg  in  each  hollow.  Season. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven  just  long  enough  to  set  the  egg  whites. 


244 


MEAT  DISHES 

(Pratos  de  Came) 


MEAT  BALLS 

(Balas  de  Carne) 


i  cup  bread  crumbs 
i  pound  hamburger 

3  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

4  slices  bacon,  chopped  fine 
i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
Flour 


i  garlic  clove  (small) 

i  small  onion,  chopped 

i  bay  leaf 

i  sprig  celery 

i  bit  thyme 

Juice  i  lemon 

i  egg  yolk,  beaten 


Wet  y2  cup  of  the  bread  crumbs  and  squeeze  dry.  Add  to 
the  hamburger,  with  2  of  the  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  bacon,  and 
parsley.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  form  into  balls  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Dredge  with  flour,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  crumbs. 
Let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Meanwhile  boil  garlic,  onion,  bay 
leaf,  celery,  and  thyme  in  1J/2  pints  of  water  until  reduced  to 
1  pint.  Strain;  put  back  in  the  sauce  pan  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Drop  in  the  meat  balls  and  cook,  not  letting  the  water  boil  so 
hard  that  they  fall  to  pieces.  Take  up.  Add  lemon  juice,  and 
more  salt  and  pepper  if  necessary.  Let  boil  up,  take  from  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  the  egg  yolk.  Pour  over  the  meat  balls  and 
serve. 


245 


246  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

LITTLE  BEEFSTEAKS,  PAN-FRIED 

(Bifes  de  Vacca  Panados) 

i  pound  sirloin  or  tenderloin  i  cube  beef  suet 

(sliced  thin)  Bread  crumbs,  sifted 

Salt  and  pepper  Grated  Parmesan  cheese 

i  tablespoon  lemon  juice  2  eggs,  beaten 

Lard  for  frying 

Be  sure  all  skin  and  fat  have  been  removed  from  meat.  Cut 
in  equal  pieces  about  3  inches  in  diameter.  Sprinkle  each  piece 
lightly  on  both  sides,  with  salt,  freshly  ground  pepper,  and  drops 
of  lemon  juice.  Slice  suet  and  try  out  the  fat.  Mix  crumbs  with 
equal  quantity  of  Parmesan  cheese.  Dip  meat  in  hot  fat  and 
then  in  crumb  mixture,  carefully  covering  both  sides.  Pile  up, 
one  piece  on  top  of  the  other,  in  a  neat  stack  and  set  aside  for 
at  least  1  hour.  Then  carefully  dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg, 
and  then  in  crumbs.    Have  lard  hot,  and  fry  until  tender. 

MINCED  BEEF 
{Picada) 

1  pound  roast  beef,  minced  Cayenne 

l/2  pint  gravy  Hot  cooked  rice 

Y&  teaspoon  nutmeg  Baked  tomato  halves 

Make  a  hash  of  minced  beef  and  gravy,  season  with  nutmeg 
and  cayenne.  Press  rice  into  buttered  small  molds  and  unmold. 
Arrange  in  a  ring  on  a  platter,  put  a  baked  tomato  half  on  each 
mold  of  rice.    Pour  hash  into  the  center  of  platter. 

This  arrangement  of  boiled  rice  and  tomatoes  is  known 
throughout  the  cooking  world  as  Portuguese  garnishing,  and  is 
a  tempting  accompaniment  to  many  a  meat  dish,  from  a  roast 
leg  of  lamb  to  a  platter  of  dainty  chops. 

A  French  dish  cooked  "a  la  Portugaise"  is  one  cooked  either 
with  a  bed  or  a  cover  of  forcemeat  or  chopped  meat. 


PORTUGUESE  247 

MEAT  FLOWERS 
(Flor  de  Came  Estujada) 

For  Each  Flower:  2  tablespoons  white  meat, 
1  thin  slice  uncooked  beef  minced 

Sorrel  leaves,  without  stems  Salt  and  pepper 

(or  young  spinach)  l/2  hard-boiled  egg 

1  thin  circle  uncooked  ham  Portuguese  cooking  sauce 

1  thin  omelet,  egg  yolks  only  Lettuce  for  garnishing 
1  thin  slice  cooked  smoked 
tongue 

Pile  ingredients,  except  sauce  and  lettuce,  like  a  stack  of  pan- 
cakes in  the  order  given,  each  layer  being  very  thin,  and  all  of 
the  same  circumference  except  the  egg  half  which  crowns  the 
pile,  white  side  up.  With  needle  and  strong  thread,  make  a  gath- 
ering around  the  edge  of  the  beef.  Stretch  and  work  edges  of 
beef  upward,  at  the  same  time  pressing  the  pile  down  in  the  cen- 
ter until  beef  surrounds  other  ingredients  like  the  calyx  of  a 
flower  enfolding  its  petals.  Draw  thread  tight  and  tie.  This 
forms  a  ball  the  size  of  an  orange,  with  the  white  of  the  egg 
showing  in  the  exact  center  of  the  top.  Lay  as  many  of  these 
balls  as  desired  in  a  saucepan,  add  boiling  Portuguese  cooking 
sauce  made  without  tomato  (see  recipe)  to  half  the  height  of 
the  balls.  Simmer,  turning  occasionally.  Take  up,  remove 
thread  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  egg  next  to  lettuce.  With  a 
very  sharp  knife,  cut  meat  ball  down  to  the  level  of  the  egg 
yolk  in  6  equal  sections.  Gently  open  the  sections  and  a  flower 
of  many  colored  petals  will  be  formed  by  the  contrasting 
layers  of  beef,  sorrel,  omelet,  tongue  and  white  meat.  The  egg 
half  holds  these  petals  together  at  the  base  and  its  yolk  makes  a 
daisy-like  center  for  the  flower.  Reduce  cooking  liquid  and  serve 
in  a  gravy  boat. 


248 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


PORTUGUESE  CURRY 
(Bindelho) 

2  pounds  beef,  pork,  or  duck  %  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  teaspoon  cayenne 
Yi  teaspoon  toasted  cumin  seed 
(Substitute  caraway  seeds) 


1  teaspoon  salt 

4  peppercorns 

1  cup  vinegar 

3  garlic  cloves,  crushed 

*4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yz  tablespoon  ground  ginger 


1  teaspoon  toasted  Coriander 

seeds 
1  bay  leaf 


Y4  pound  fat 

Cut  meat  in  cubes.  Mix  together  all  other  ingredients,  ex- 
cept fat,  and  pour  over  meat.  Marinate  8  hours,  stirring  oc- 
casionally. Drain  meat;  heat  fat  to  smoking  and  fry.  Reduce 
heat.    Strain  marinade  and  pour  over.    Simmer  until  very  tender. 

LAMBS'  TROTTERS,  FRIED 
(Fritura  de  Maos  de  Carneiro) 


6  lambs'  trotters 

Salt  and  pepper 

Butter  or  fat 

1  tablespoon  onion  juice 

1  garlic  clove,  minced 


2  tablespoons  vinegar 
Bread  crumbs 
2  eggs,  beaten 
Deep  fat  for  frying 
Parsley  sprigs 


Tomato  sauce 

Cook  trotters  in  salted  water  until  ready  to  fall  from  the 
bones.  Drain.  Remove  bones,  keeping  the  trotters  as  shapely  as 
possible.  Melt  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  onion  juice  and  garlic 
and  simmer.  Add  vinegar  and  trotters.  Sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  simmer  until  well  seasoned,  5-10  minutes;  then  drain.  Press 
into  original  shapes,  dip  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat;  drain  on  absorbent  paper. 
Drop  parsley  sprigs  in  deep  fat  and  fry  for  a  garnish.  Serve  very 
hot  with  a  tomato  sauce  made  with  some  of  the  boiling  liquor. 
Serve  several  fried  parsley  sprigs  with  each  portion. 


PORTUGUESE  249 

BAKED  KID 

(Cabrito  Assado) 

4  pounds   young   goat   in   large  l/8  teaspoon  freshly  ground 

pieces,  an  assortment  of  cuts  pepper 

from  leg,  chops,  and  breast  Salt 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed  1  cup  white  wine 

Y2  bay  leaf  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  !4    cup  beef  fat,  melted 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley  3  cups  rice,  freshly  cooked 

In  a  deep  bowl  mix  together  all  ingredients  except  the  rice. 
Let  stand  2-3  hours,  turning  the  meat  over  occasionally  so  that  it 
will  be  evenly  flavored.  Place  meat  with  the  marinade  in  a 
baking  pan  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.).  Reduce  heat  and 
bake  until  tender  and  nicely  browned,  basting  often.  Take  up 
meat,  remove  some  of  the  fat  from  pan  gravy,  strain;  and  put 
liquid  back  in  pan.  Turn  the  rice  into  it  and  mix  well;  heat 
and  serve  with  the  meat. 

PORK  CHOPS  FRIED 

(Costelletas  de  Porco  Fritas) 

6  pork  chops  1  bay  leaf,  minced 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cloves,  crushed 

4  peppercorns,  crushed  Tomato  sauce 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley  Pickles 

Trim  superfluous  fat  from  chops.  Mix  other  ingredients,  rub 
over  chops,  lay  in  a  bowl  and  add  remaining  mixture.  Place  in 
refrigerator  for  2  days,  turning  occasionally.  Wipe  with  a  napkin 
and  grill,  or  fry.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce;  or  with  a  piquant 
sauce,  and  pickles. 


250 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


SADDLE  OF  MUTTON 

(Quadrado  de  Carneiro) 


Saddle  of  mutton 

2  quarts  port  wine 

2  cups  meat  broth 

2  cups  wine  vinegar 

6  cloves 

2  bay  leaves 

6  allspice 


6  peppercorns 

2  onions,  sliced 

2  carrots,  chopped 

1  young  turnip,  chopped 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed 

Salt 

Currant  jelly 


Have  saddle  nicely  trimmed,  but  leave  on  the  tail  (although 
it  will  be  blackened  to  a  crisp,  its  flavor  must  not  be  lost).  Boil 
all  ingredients  together  10  minutes,  except  meat,  salt,  and  jelly. 
Lay  saddle  in  a  deep  bowl  and  pour  the  boiling  mixture  over. 
Let  stand  4-5  days,  turning  occasionally.  Take  saddle  out  of  the 
marinade,  and  dry  thoroughly;  rub  with  salt;  wrap  in  plenty  of 
oiled  paper,  or  slip  into  an  oiled  thick  paper  bag.  Cook  on  a  spit 
before  an  open  fire,  or  under  a  slow  gas  grill  with  door  open. 
When  paper  is  much  scorched  remove  it,  saving  every  drop  of 
dripping.  Finish  grilling  and  take  up.  Meanwhile  have  mari- 
nade strained  and  the  amount  of  it  desired  for  the  sauce  reduced 
one-half  or  more;  mix  with  drippings  and  currant  jelly  to  taste 
and  serve  in  a  boat. 

This  is  truly  a  man's  dish  and  a  dish  for  a  man  cook,  since 
any  housewife  would  object  to  the  blackened  color  of  the  meat 
as  it  comes  from  the  grill.  But  underneath  the  outer  crust  the 
flavor  is  superb,  and  will  delight  any  gourmet. 

FILLET  OF  VENISON 

(Filete  de  Veado) 

1  small  onion,  chopped  %  cup  olive  oil 

1  small  carrot,  chopped  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  young  turnip,  chopped         2  cloves 


PORTUGUESE  251 

1  piece  mace  Flour 

4  peppercorns  Vi  cup  currants 

1  fillet  of  venison  12  almonds,  blanched  and 

Bacon  strips  for  larding  shredded 

1  orange  2  tablespoons   pomegranate   pips 

1  lemon  Salt 

1  cup  white  wine  Cayenne 

Mix  onion,  carrot,  turnip,  oil,  vinegar,  cloves,  mace  and 
peppercorns.  Place  fillet  in  deep  dish  and  pour  mixture  over. 
Marinate  4  hours,  turning  several  times.  Drain,  wipe  dry,  and 
lard  with  bacon.  Lay  in  roasting  pan;  strain  marinade  over  and 
bake,  basting  frequently  after  first  10  minutes.  Peel  orange  and 
lemon,  cut  peel  in  shreds  and  boil  in  water  until  tender.  Drain 
and  discard  liquid.  Reduce  wine  to  J^  cup  by  boiling.  Mix 
with  orange  and  lemon  juice.  Take  up  fillet  when  done,  and 
mix  pan  contents  with  wine  mixture,  adding  a  little  boiling  water 
if  necessary.  Thicken  slightly  with  flour.  Add  currants,  al- 
monds, orange  and  lemon  peel,  and  heat  until  currants  plump. 
Add  pomegranate  pips,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  serve 
sauce  in  a  boat. 

While  we  think  of  venison  chiefly  in  terms  of  the  gigantic 
spreading-antlered  species  of  our  north  woods,  Europeans  are 
accustomed  to  much  smaller  species,  semi-domesticated  in  game 
preserves.  In  wooded  sections  of  Portugal,  Spain,  Austria,  Ger- 
many and  anywhere  in  the  Alps  deer  are  so  common  and  tame 
that  they  may  be  counted  by  the  dozen  out  of  train  windows. 
Some  of  them  are  so  small  you  could  slip  a  doe  in  your  overcoat 
pocket  and  use  the  tiny  buck's  horns  for  chop-sticks. 


252  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

LITTLE  VENISON  PIES 
(Empadinhas  de  Veado) 

54  pound  choice  cut  of  venison  i  sprig  thyme 

l/8  pound  ham  Juice  i  lemon 

3  slices  bacon,  minced  3  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar 

54  cup  white  wine  2  cups  flour 

Yi  bay  leaf  Salt 

Yi  garlic  clove  Ys  pound  butter 

Ys  teaspoon   pepper  6  egg  yolks 

Yz  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  sprig  parsley  1  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped 

Stoned  olives 

Cut  venison  and  ham  in  shreds  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil. 
Place  in  a  bowl  with  bacon,  wine,  bay  leaf,  garlic,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, parsley,  thyme,  lemon  juice,  and  vinegar.  Mix  well  and 
marinate  2  days,  stirring  occasionally.  Sift  flour  with  1  teaspoon 
salt,  work  in  the  butter,  add  5  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and 
knead  together  to  form  a  stiff  dough.  If  not  moist  enough  add  a 
little  cold  water.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  allow  to  stand  J4  hour. 
Then  break  off  bits  of  the  dough  and  with  the  hands  mold  out 
shells  to  fit  patty  pans.  Roll  out  some  of  the  dough  and  cut 
covers  to  fit  the  shells.  Cut  venison  and  ham  in  inch  lengths. 
Set  the  shells  in  the  pans,  and  fill  with  the  meat,  adding  a  little 
minced  parsley,  chopped  egg,  the  minced  bacon  from  the  mari- 
nade, and  1  olive  in  each  shell.  Moisten  with  some  of  the 
marinade  mixture.  Brush  edge  of  dough  with  egg  yolk,  put  on 
cover  and  press  down.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  gash  in  the 
center  to  let  out  the  steam,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°F.).  The  pies  are  nearly  done  when  the  gravy  begins  to 
rise  through  the  hole  in  the  cover.  Remove  from  oven,  brush 
tops  with  egg  yolk,  and  put  back  in  oven  for  a  moment  to  dry 
the  egg.  Take  pies  out  of  the  tins  at  once,  and  serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 


PORTUGUESE  253 


CHICKEN  SAUTE 
(Fritura  de  Fran  go) 

1  young  chicken,  jointed  l/2  pound  fresh  mushrooms 

Salt  and  pepper  (or  1  can) 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  shallots,  minced  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

Yz  garlic  clove,  minced  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Season  chicken  and  fry  golden  in  oil  with  the  shallots  and 
garlic.  Separately  saute  mushrooms  in  butter,  and  add  to  pan 
contents.  Add  tomato  and  a  little  boiling  water  and  simmer. 
Take  up  chicken,  arrange  mushrooms  around  it,  pour  sauce  over, 
and  sprinkle  all  with  parsley. 

CHICKEN  LIVERS 

(Figados  de  Gallinhas) 

10  chicken  livers  1  cup  Spanish  sauce   (hot) 
3  tablespoons  butter  or  oil  (see  recipe) 

Salt  and  pepper  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

J4  cup  Madeira  Croutons 

Make  sure  that  all  the  galls  have  been  removed  from  the 
livers.  Heat  butter,  add  livers,  season  and  toss  over  the  fire  5 
minutes.  Add  Madeira  and  quickly  reduce.  Add  sauce  and 
lemon  juice;  mix  well;  put  on  hot  platter;  garnish  with  croutons. 

BRAISED  PARTRIDGES 

(Perdizes  Estufadas) 

1  pair  partridges  2  cloves 

*4  cup  olive  oil  3  peppercorns 

%  pound  ham,  in  coarse  shreds      Meat  broth,  heated 

2  onions,  chopped  1  cup  white  wine 

2  small  carrots,  chopped  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  garlic  clove,  minced  Salt 

1  bay  leaf  1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs 

2  sprigs  parsley  Butter 


254 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


Singe,  draw  and  truss  birds.    Heat  oil  in  saucepan;  add  ham, 

onion,  carrots,  garlic,  bay  leaf,  parsley,  cloves,  and  peppercorns, 

and  fry  the  birds  for  10  minutes,  moving  the  contents  of  the  pan 

continually  and  turning  the  birds  so  they  will  heat  evenly.    Add 

iy2  cups  boiling  broth  and  boil  rapidly  until  reduced  to  a  glaze, 

turning  the  birds  over.    Then  add  wine,  vinegar,  salt  and  broth 

to  half  the  height  of  the  birds.    Cover  very  closely  and  simmer. 

(At  this  point  the  Portuguese  cook  seals  her  casserole,  buries  it 

in  a  bed  of  hot  ashes  and  heaps  hot  ashes  on  the  cover.)    When 

tender  take  up  birds,  cover  and  set  over  steam.    Skim  oil*  fat  from 

gravy,  and  press  through  a  sieve.    Fry  crumbs  in  butter,  add  to 

gravy,  and  boil  until  thick.     Remove  birds  to  hot  platter  and 

pour  gravy  over. 

r       &      ;  FRIED  BIRDS 

(Aves  Fritas) 

Partridges,  quail,  squab,  or  squab  chicken: 

Olive  oil  Salt  and  pepper 

i  onion,  sliced  Tomato  sauce,  heated 

Yi   teaspoon  minced  parsley  Stoned  olives,  scalded 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  Large  croutons 

Pluck,  singe  and  draw  birds,  and  cut  them  in  service  por- 
tions. Season  and  fry  in  olive  oil  with  onion,  parsley  and  garlic. 
When  tender  season  and  add  tomato  sauce  and  olives  and  sim- 
mer 10  minutes.    Garnish  platter  with  croutons. 

GAME  PATTIES 

(JPastelinhos  de  Caca) 

Less   desirable   portions   of   a       i  clove 

game  bird  or  rabbit 
i  cup  Madeira 
i  cup  water 
Yi  garlic  clove,  minced 
2  tablespoons   onion,  minced 


Salt  and  freshly  ground  pepper 

Yi  bay  leaf 

i  sprig  parsley 

i  sprig  thyme 

2  tablespoons  minced  truffle 


Patty  shells 


PORTUGUESE  255 

Stew  meat  in  Madeira  mixed  with  water,  garlic,  onions,  sea- 
sonings and  herbs.  Cool.  Remove  clove,  bay  leaf,  parsley  and 
thyme.  Take  meat  from  bones;  grind  and  put  back  in  liquid. 
Add  truffle,  and  simmer  until  reduced.  Fill  patty  shells  and 
serve  either  cold  or  heated  in  the  oven. 


SAUCES 

(Molhos) 


PORTUGUESE  COOKING  SAUCE 

(Molho  Est uj ado) 
(For  All  Meats) 

i  onion,  chopped  herb — tarragon,  thyme,  mar- 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  joram  or  basil) 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  Meat  broth  or  pan  gravy 

i  tomato,  chopped    (optional)  l/z  cup  white   wine,  or  3   table- 
1  herb  bouquet   (parsley,  celery,  spoons  Madeira  (optional) 

bay  leaf,  and  one  additional 

Slowly  fry  onion  in  oil  until  it  begins  to  color,  add  garlic  and 
fry  golden.  Add  tomato  and  bouquet  and  simmer.  Add  broth 
and  wine  and  simmer. 

Meat  to  be  braised,  or  pot-roasted,  is  browned  with  the  onion 
and  garlic.  Vegetables,  or  meat,  to  be  boiled,  are  added  after  the 
broth.  For  roast  meats,  add  this  sauce,  hot,  to  pan  when  basting 
begins. 

PORTUGUESE  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 
{Molho  Portuguez) 


HOT 


1  onion,  sliced  thin 

1  garlic  clove,  minced 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  small  green  pepper,  sliced  thin 
1  small  tomato,  sliced  thin 

Hot  pan  gravy 
256 


14  teaspoon  salt 
Tobasco  sauce  or  cayenne 

(or  fresh  hot  chili  pepper) 
Yi   teaspoon  minced  parsley 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 


PORTUGUESE  257 

Slowly  fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  it  begins  to  color. 
Add  green  pepper  and  fry,  but  do  not  let  it  brown.  Add  re- 
maining ingredients,  cover  and  simmer  10  minutes.  Slide  out  of 
pan  on  to  meat  platter,  or  into  sauce  boat,  being  careful  not  to 
break  tomato  slices. 

COLD 

Onion  rings  Thin  tomato  slices 

Green  pepper  rings  Salt  and  pepper 

Vinegar  thinned  with  water 

Place  vegetables  in  a  dish.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. 
Let  stand  1  hour,  and  serve  with  cold  meat. 

OLIVE  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 
(Molho  de  Azeitonas) 

1  dozen  olives  2  cups   Portuguese   cooking 

1  cup  Madeira  wine  sauce  (see  recipe) 

With  sharp  knife  cut  olives  from  the  pits  in  spirals.  If  very 
salty,  scald  with  boiling  water  and  drain.  Simmer  in  wine  until 
nearly  dry.    Add  Portuguese  cooking  sauce,  or  pan  gravy. 


VEGETABLES 

(Legumes) 


NOURISHING  RICE 

(Arroz  de  Substantia) 

Strain  rich  highly-seasoned  soup,  made  of  meat  and  vege- 
tables; and  bring  to  a  boil.  Wash  rice  through  many  waters  and 
drain.  Add  rice  a  little  at  a  time  to  boiling  soup,  and  boil  rap- 
idly until  grains  swell,  and  liquid  is  nearly  absorbed.  Reduce 
heat,  or  place  over  boiling  water  until  rice  is  completely  tender 
and  dry.  Uncover  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  Proportions 
are  approximately  i  cup  of  rice  to  i  quart  of  soup. 

SUMMER  SQUASH 
(Abobora  de  Agua) 

i  pound  summer  squash         Salt  and  pepper 
i  small  onion,  minced  54  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

i  garlic  clove,  minced  %  cup  tomato  puree 

2  tablespoons  bacon  fat  i  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  meat  broth 

Peel  squash,  remove  seeds,  and  cut  in  i-inch  cubes.  Parboil 
in  salted  water  and  drain.  Meanwhile  to  prepare  the  sauce:  fry 
onion  and  garlic  slowly  in  fat  without  browning.  Add  seasonings 
and  parsley.  Then  tomato  puree,  vinegar,  and  meat  broth.  Sim- 
mer for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the  squash  and  mix  well.  Cover 
closely  and  simmer  slowly  until  squash  is  tender  and  liquid 
nearly  absorbed.  It  may  be  necessary  to  remove  cover  at  the  end 
in  order  to  reduce  sufficiently.  The  squash  may  be  mashed  lightly 
with  a  fork,  or  left  in  cubes. 

258 


PORTUGUESE  259 

SHELLED  GREEN  BEANS 

(Favas) 

4  slices  bacon,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

3  scallions,  chopped  3  cups   shelled  green  beans 
1  garlic  clove,  minced  or  fresh  lima  beans 

1  thin  slice  cooked  ham,  chopped  Beef  broth 

Fry  bacon  until  crisp.  Add  scallions,  garlic,  ham  and  season- 
ings and  continue  frying,  but  do  not  brown.  Add  beans  and  mix 
together.  Pour  in  sufficient  beef  broth  to  cover  and  cook  until 
beans  are  done  and  sauce  reduced.  Serve  with  poached  eggs  and 
slices  of  sausage  heated  in  butter. 

SPINACH  WITH  SARDINES 

(Espinafre  con  Sardinhas) 

1  large  tin  sardines  Juice  of  l/2  lemon 

2  cups  cooked  spinach,  chopped      2  tablespoons  onion  juice 
Yi  cup  bread  crumbs  %  teaspoon   pepper 

1  hard-boiled  egg  Salt 

Butter 

Skin,  bone  and  chop  sardines.  Mix  with  spinach,  bread 
crumbs,  egg  white  and  Y/z  yolk,  minced,  lemon  juice,  onion  juice, 
seasonings  and  a  little  of  the  spinach  liquor.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  grate  remaining  J4  egg  yolk  over  top  and  dot  with 
butter.    Bake  15  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°F.). 


DESSERTS 

(Sobre  mesas) 


6  egg  yolks 

i  cup  granulated  sugar 

i  cup  blanched  almonds, 

ground 
i  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 


ALMOND  CAKE 

(Bolo  com  Amendoas) 

Juice  of  4  oranges 


6  egg  whites 
XA  pound  potato  flour 
Apricot  jam 
Orange  icing 


Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar  until  light  and  creamy.  Add 
ground  almonds,  orange  rind  and  juice.  Beat  egg  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  beat  in  alternately  with  potato  flour.  Pour  mixture 
about  i  inch  thick  into  a  greased  and  floured  baking  sheet.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  (350°?.).  When  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer 
of  apricot  jam  and  ice  with  orange-flavored  icing. 

CAKE  TO  EAT  WITH  WINE 
(Bolo  para  Vinho) 

Y2  cup  butter  5  egg  whites 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2  cups  cake  flour,  sifted  4  times 

9  egg  yolks  A  pinch  of  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  egg  yolks,  and  beat  until  all 
are  light  and  creamy.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and 
add  to  batter,  a  little  at  a  time,  continually  beating.  Add  flour 
gradually,  also  the  cinnamon  and  orange  rind.  Butter  a  shallow 
baking  tin,  line  bottom  with  oiled  paper.    But  in  batter  and  bake 

260 


PORTUGUESE  261 

in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).     When  cold,  slice  cake  and  toast 
slices  on  both  sides.    Serve  cold. 

FRIED  CREAM 
(Torrijas  de  Nata) 

3  egg  yolks  Butter 

1  cup  whipping  cream  Powdered  sugar 

1  whole  egg,  beaten  Cinnamon 

Beat  egg  yolks  lightly  and  whip  into  cream.  Spread  not 
more  than  J/£  inch  thick  in  a  greased  pan.  Place  over  a  very 
low  flame  and  cook  slowly.  Cool  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Take 
up  with  a  spatula,  brush  lightly  with  beaten  egg  and  fry  in  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon.    Serve  hot. 

ALMOND  PIE 

(Tort  a  de  Am  en  do  a) 

12  eggs  il/2  cups  almond  meal 

1Y2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  sherry 

Beat  egg  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix  sugar  with  al- 
mond meal,  which  must  be  fine  like  flour,  and  add  to  egg  yolks, 
beating  continuously  until  well  blended.  Add  cinnamon  and 
sherry  and  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites  last.  Put  into  a  round  shal- 
low pan  lined  with  oiled  paper.  Cover  pie  with  paper  to  pre- 
vent burning,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  Mixture 
may  be  put  in  small  cups  and  steamed  like  custards. 

A  Portuguese  would  exclaim  "succo  de  uva"  upon  tasting 
this  salubrious  pie.  "Succo  de  uva"  means  "juice  of  the  grape" 
and  is  the  highest  phrase  of  praise  in  the  whole  Portuguese  vo- 
cabulary. Everything  extra  good  is  "succo  de  uva"  and  the  ex- 
pression is  accompanied  by  an  appreciative  squinting  up  of  the 
eyes  and  tight  pursing  of  the  lips.    The  Italian  goes  a  little  farther 


262 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


than  his  Latin  brother;  in  expressing  gustatory  delight  he  throws 
kisses  to  the  dish  and  even  hugs  the  chef.  But  the  Oriental  spoils 
it  all  by  emitting  an  applauding  burp. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

(Pudim  de  Chocolate) 


%  cup  brown  bread  crumbs 
Yi  cup   port   wine 
2  tablespoons  blanched  almonds 
2  squares   (1  ounce)  unsweet- 
ened chocolate 


3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 
2  ounces  currants 

%  teaspoon  cloves 

4  egg  y°lks 

4  egg  whites 


Chocolate  sauce 

Soak  crumbs  10  minutes  in  wine.  Cut  almonds  in  slivers, 
grate  chocolate  and  combine  with  sugar,  currants,  cloves  and  well 
beaten  egg  yolks.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stir?  but  not  dry  and  fold 
into  mixture.  Fill  a  buttered  mold  %  full,  cover  and  place  on  a 
trivet  with  boiling  water  half  way  up  around  it.  Keep  at  this 
point,  adding  boiling  water  as  needed,  and  steam  2  hours.  Serve 
with  chocolate  sauce  poured  around  it  or  in  a  sauce  boat. 

APPLE  PUDDING 
{Pudim  de  Macas) 

8  large  cooking  apples  Yi  cup  citron,  chopped  fine 

1Y2  cups  granulated   sugar  Yi  cup  blanched  pistachios, 
Yi  cup  seedless  raisins  shredded 

Yi  cup  seeded  raisins  Juice  of  %  lemon 

Core,  peel  and  slice  5  of  the  apples,  add  sugar,  and  no  more 
water  than  is  absolutely  necessary.  Cook  until  apples  are  tender, 
then  add  raisins,  citron,  and  nuts  and  stir  well.  Core,  peel  and 
cut  in  round  thin  slices  the  remaining  apples.  Sprinkle  lemon 
juice  over  them  and  spread  Yi  m  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking 
dish.    Spread  cooked  apple  over  them,  and  place  remaining  raw 


PORTUGUESE  263 

slices  on  top.     Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven   (350°?.). 

Serve  hot. 

RICE  PUDDING 

(Pudim  de  Arroz) 

l/z  cup  butter  6  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

3  tablespoons  ground  rice  Yi  cup   granulated    sugar 

iYi  cups  thin  cream,  scalded       4  egg  whites 
Apricot  jam 

Heat  butter  in  saucepan  over  fire,  stir  in  rice  and  add  scalded 
cream  gradually.  Cook,  stirring  until  mixture  boils,  then  re- 
move from  fire.  When  cold,  beat  in  egg  yolks,  sugar,  and  egg 
whites,  the  latter  beaten  to  a  froth,  but  not  stiff.  Pour  mixture 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°F.).  When  done,  invert  on  a  serving  dish,  spread  a  thick 
layer  of  apricot  or  any  jam  over  top  and  serve  with  sauce. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
(Pudim  de  Pao) 

%  pound  stale  bread  4  egg  yolks 

2  cups  hot  milk  Yi  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  Y*  cup  currants 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  cloves  Yi  cup  seeded  raisins 

and  nutmeg,  mixed  1  cup  Madeira  wine 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  Sauce 

Remove  bread  crusts,  crumble  bread  into  a  bowl,  add  milk 
and  butter  and  let  stand  20  minutes.  Add  spices  and  salt  and 
beat  to  a  smooth  paste.  Beat  egg  yolks  to  a  cream  with  sugar  and 
add  slowly  to  the  paste.  Add  currants,  raisins  and  wine  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Put  into  a  buttered  and  floured  pudding  mold  and 
bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°F.).  Or  mold  may  be 
placed  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  covered  closely  and  boiled  2 
hours.    Serve  with  lemon,  fruit  or  hard  sauce. 


264  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Portuguese  desserts  are  seldom  the  feature  of  the  meal,  be- 
cause sweets  are  not  craved  after  copious  wining  and  dining;  so 
a  plain  pudding  or  caramel  custard  is  the  standard  sobremesa;  or 
fruits  and  cheese. 

MAIDEN'S  KISSES 
(Beijinhos  de  Moca) 

iYi  cups  granulated  sugar  3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

%  cup  water  1  cup  grated  cheese 

Yi  cocoanut  freshly  grated  Flour 

Cook  sugar  with  water  until  it  forms  a  firm  ball  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  coconut  and  cool.  Mix  in  beaten 
yolks,  return  to  fire  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to  boil.  Turn 
into  a  bowl  and  leave  until  following  day.  Mix  in  grated  cheese 
and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  paste.  Put  in  buttered  patty  pans 
or  small  forms  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.). 

TINDER-BOXES 
(Petiscos) 

1  cup  grated  hard  cheese  Yi  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  12  egg  yolks 

Yi  cup  flour  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  together.  When  they  are  well 
blended  put  in  small  oblong  forms,  the  size  and  shape  of  tinder- 
boxes,  from  which  this  old  reliable  recipe  gets  its  name.  Bake 
about  10  minutes  in  hot  oven  (400°  F.). 

DREAMS 

(Sonhos) 

1  cup  hot  milk  1  cup  flour 

Few  grains  salt  4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar  Powdered  sugar 
Cinnamon 


PORTUGUESE  265 

Bring  milk,  salt  and  sugar  to  a  boil.  Drop  in  flour  all  at 
once  and  stir  vigorously  until  dough  is  a  smooth  ball  in  pan. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  eggs  1  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly 
after  each  addition.  Drop  mixture  by  dessertspoonfuls  into  deep 
hot  fat,  a  few  at  a  time.  Take  out  when  a  rich  brown,  drain  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon.  These  puffs  are 
served  with  coffee. 

HEAVENLY  "BACON" 
(Toucinho  do  Ceo) 

11  egg  yolks  2  tablespoons  caramel 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  1  inch  stick  cinnamon 

2  cups  water  2  or  3  strips  lemon  rind 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Grease  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  sweet  butter  and  pour  in  mixture.  Place  in 
steamer  over  hot  water  and  cook  gently  until  eggs  are  jelly-like, 
but  firm.  Remove,  let  cool,  then  cut  in  slices.  Mix  sugar,  water, 
and  caramel  in  saucepan,  add  cinnamon  and  lemon  rind.  Place 
over  fire  and  boil  5  minutes.  Put  in  egg  slices,  let  simmer  until 
slices  are  well  soaked,  then  remove,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dessert 
plate.  Remove  cinnamon  and  lemon  and  pour  syrup  over.  Serve 
cold. 

The  pet  name  of  this  popular  sweet,  "Toucinho  do  Ceo," 
translates  literally  "Bacon  of  Heaven,"  and  heavenly  bacon  means 
much  to  a  Portuguese,  for  it  is  his  favorite  seasoning  and  goes 
into  all  stews.  Bacon  to  him  symbolizes  good  living,  the  fat  of 
the  land.  The  Spaniards  dote  on  this  cured  pig-meat,  too,  but, 
alas,  it  is  likely  to  be  rancid. 


266 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


6  egg  yolks 

6  egg  whites 

2  tablespoons  cake  flour 

2  cups  granulated  sugar 

%  cup  water 


MONKS'  HOODS 

(Capuchinos) 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

or  Y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
or  i  tablespoon  rum 

i  teaspoon  milk 

i  stick  unsweetened  chocolate 


Beat  egg  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Combine  the  two  and 
fold  in  sifted  flour  lightly.  Spread  mixture  in  a  shallow  pan  lined 
with  oiled  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderately  slow  oven  (3500  F.) 
until  cakes  are  dry  and  a  delicate  brown.  Cool  and  cut  in  dom- 
ino shapes.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  thick,  but  remove  before 
syrup  threads  and  pour  over  cakes.  Soak  3  hours  and  drain. 
While  in  syrup,  cakes  should  puff  out  like  monks'  hoods,  hence 
their  names.  Flavor  syrup  to  taste,  return  to  fire  and  boil  until  it 
threads.  Beat  until  it  thickens  and  cover  cakes.  Lay  them  on 
oiled  paper.  Heat  to  a  syrup  1  teaspoon  water,  milk  and  choco- 
late and  brush  over  them. 


SIGHS  OF  A  NUN 
(Suspiros  de  Freira) 

6  tablespoons  butter  3  eggs 

3%  cups  granulated  sugar  2  or  3  thin  lemon  peels 

3V2  CUPS  hot  water  Cinnamon 

Cake  flour  Powdered  sugar 


Put  butter,  %  cup  of  sugar  and  2  cups  of  hot  water  into  a 
saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Quickly  stir  in  enough  flour  to 
hold  dough  together.  When  dough  leaves  sides  of  pan,  remove 
from  fire  and  beat  in  eggs,  1  at  a  time.  Roll  out  on  a  slightly 
floured  board  about  Yz  inch  thick.  Cut  into  small  squares. 
Make  a  syrup  with  remaining  sugar,  water  and  lemon  peel.  Boil 
2  or  3  minutes  and  cook  squares  a  few  at  a  time.    Drain  and 


PORTUGUESE  267 

serve  on  a  hot  plate  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.    Or  flavor  the 
cooking  syrup  to  taste  with  a  sweet  white  wine. 

"Monks'  Hoods,"  "Heavenly  Bacon"  and  "Nun's  Sighs"  show 
the  playful  attitude  of  the  Portuguese  toward  his  religion.  Monks 
and  nuns,  in  spite  of  their  supposed  abstemiousness,  are  often 
great  gluttons.  The  church,  indeed,  has  fostered  both  fine  food 
and  drink  through  the  heavy  indulgence  in  it  by  its  earthly  vicars, 
among  whom  we  find  as  many  gourmands  as  we  do  in  royal 
families — for  it  takes  both  wealth  and  leisure  to  indulge  one's 
whims  of  appetite. 


SWEET  SAUCES 

(Molhos  Dolces) 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 
(Molho  de  Chocolate) 

Y2  cup  granulated  sugar  i-inch  stick  cinnamon,  crushed 

i  cup  water  4  ounces   unsweetened   chocolate 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  cinnamon  5  minutes,  then  set  aside  to 
cool.  Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.  When  cool,  strain,  and 
mix  syrup  slowly  with  melted  chocolate  until  smooth  and  creamy. 
Keep  sauce  warm  over  hot  (not  boiling)  water.  Good  with  pud- 
dings or  ice  creams. 

LEMON  SAUCE 
(Molho  de  Limdo) 

1V2  cups  water  i-inch  stick  cinnamon,  crushed 

!/4  cup  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  sherry  or  Madeira  l/2  tablespoon  flour 

Y2  cup  granulated  sugar  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Mix  water,  lemon,  wine,  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bring  to 

a  boil.    Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  flour,  strain  and  add 

slowly  to  hot  liquid,  stirring  constantly.    Cook  10  minutes  over 

hot  water,  stirring  frequently.     Grate  in  nutmeg  and  serve  at 

once. 

RED  WINE  SAUCE 

(Molho  de  Vinho  Tinto) 

1  cup  red  wine  Grated  rind  %  lemon 

1  cup  water  6  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 

3  egg  y°lks 
268 


PORTUGUESE  269 

Put  wine,  water,  and  lemon  rind  on  to  boil.    Beat  sugar  with 

egg  yolks  until  light-colored  and  creamy.    Strain  hot  liquid  and 

pour  slowly  over  egg  mixture,  constantly  stirring.     Cook  over 

hot  water  until  sauce  coats  spoon. 

• 
PRUNE  OR  PLUM  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  1  thin  peeling  of  lemon 

l/i  cup  granulated  sugar  i-inch  stick  cinnamon 

1  cup    strained    juice    and    pulp  Y2  cup  Grandjo  or  sweet 

of  cooked,  unsweetened  white  wine 

prunes  or  plums 

Mix  corn  starch  and  sugar.  Combine  remaining  ingredients, 
and  bring  to  a  boil,  gradually  adding  cornstarch  and  sugar. 
Cook,  stirring,  over  hot  water  for  10  minutes.  Remove  cinnamon 
and  lemon.    Serve  with  puddings  and  dumplings  of  all  sorts. 


Boo\  Four 
FRENCH 

Bon  Appetit! 
Good  Appetite! 


L'ART  DU  BIEN  MANGER 

{The  Art  of  Eating  Well) 


It  is  not  by  accident  that  France  is  the  world  center  of  fine 
food  and  drink,  but  largely  because  of  her  geographical  location 
and  direct  inheritance  of  dishes  and  drinks  from  Roman  occupa- 
tion, Spanish  conquest  and  the  influence  of  sea-faring  Portuguese 
along  her  coast.  Not  only  these,  but  also  Greek  and  Arabic  con- 
tributions in  the  Midi,  Basque  sturdiness  of  Pyreneese  dishes 
flaming  with  applejack,  Flemish  fashions  from  Flanders  and  the 
downright  German  cuisine  of  Alsace-Lorraine,  where  Teutonic 
beer  and  Latin  wine  flow  together.  Besides,  Napoleonic  conquest 
brought  in  foreign  food  fashions  and  filled  Paris  with  Generals 
and  diplomats  who  had  plenty  of  gold  to  encourage  the  restaura- 
teurs. War  as  well  made  thrifty  fare  imperative  for  the  op- 
pressed masses,  so  they  were  forced  to  making  the  best  of  giblets, 
dressing  up  lungs  and  tripe  into  toothsome  delicacies,  even  as  our 
poverty-stricken  slave  negroes  turned  chitterlings  and  possum 
into  celestial  dishes.  Cheap  cuts  and  round  steaks  of  horse  the 
Parisians  turned  into  near-sirloins  of  beef,  pig's  ears  they  meta- 
morphosed into  silken  sausages.  Alley  cat  they  substituted  for 
wild  hare  with  great  cleverness. 

By  now,  all  of  these  foreign  and  making-the-best-of-it  influ- 
ences have  merged,  in  two  universal  centers  of  epicurianism, 
Paris  and  Lyons.  Lyonnaise  potatoes  and  Parisian  bceuf  a  la 
mode,  along  with  Julienne  potatoes,  soup  Julienne  and  mayon- 
naise are  as  common  international  fare  as  chop  suey  or  spa- 
ghetti.   In  the  matter  of  potatoes  alone,  the  whole  world  eats 

273 


274    THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

them  in  French  style,  au  gratin,  a  la  Napoleon,  en  robe  de 
chambre  (in  their  dressing  gowns)  or  plain  French  fried. 

Everybody  eats  table  d'hote  or  a  la  carte  and  the  menu 
everywhere  is  in  French,  of  course,  and  about  all  the  French  that 
many  of  us  know.  In  the  esperanto  of  dining  we  have  adopted 
the  French  name  for  every  course,  from  hors  d'ceuvres,  through 
soup,  salad,  piece  de  resistance  and  sauce  all  the  way  to  dessert 
and  liqueurs.  But  though  French  table  customs  and  words  have 
run  round  the  world,  this  universal  usage  of  them  is  compara- 
tively recent  in  origin.  For  not  more  than  a  century  and  a  half 
ago  the  taverns  of  London  and  ristorantes  of  Rome  made  meals 
more  distinguished  than  any  served  up  in  similar  caravansaries  of 
Paris.  The  very  beef,  which  as  bceuf  a  la  mode  became  the  name 
of  a  pioneer  Parisian  restaurant  in  the  Palais  Royal,  was  adopted 
from  old  England,  while  the  surpassing  dishes  au  gratin  which 
helped  heavily  in  establishing  the  Parisian  cuisine,  were  out  and 
out  Italian. 

The  first  great  restaurant  of  Paris  was  established  in  the 
Palais  Royal  in  1786  and  called  "Les  Trois  Freres  Provencaux," 
after  the  three  rustic  brothers  of  Provence  who  came  to  town  to 
start  it.  Then  Careme,  the  father  of  all  chefs,  came  along  and 
cooked  ten  years  for  Talleyrand,  who  was  known  as  "the  first 
fork  of  his  time."  It  was  either  Careme  or  Talleyrand  who  set 
the  international  pace  of  cooking  thus  early  by  importing  Par- 
mesan from  Italy  and  sprinkling  it  in  the  soup,  by  fetching  dry 
Madeira  from  its  distant  island  and  drinking  it  after  the  soup. 

Anthony  Careme  indeed  set  the  royal  style  of  "Bien  Manger" 
which  came  to  flower  in  Napoleon's  Empire.  Besides  being  chef 
to  Talleyrand,  Careme  cooked  for  Emperor  Alexander,  Lord 
Stewart,  the  English  Ambassador  to  Vienna,  Baron  Rothschild, 
inventing  and  dedicating  dishes  to  these  patrons,  many  of  which 
became  classics  and  are  known  down  to  this  day.  Careme  put 
the  art  in  artichokes,  lifted  the  humble  casserole  from  the  kitchen 


FRENCH  275 

to  the  studio  and  guided  "La  Haute  Cuisine"  until  Savann  came 
along.  Savarin  was  the  fork  who  hoisted  the  hitherto  muddy 
and  dejected  crayfish  of  his  home  creek  at  Belley  in  the  Province 
of  Bugey  into  a  distinguished  omelet.  He  dignified  the  whis- 
kered crawdad  by  calling  him  a  fresh  water  lobster  fit  to  mingle, 
in  Newburg  society.  His  book  "Physiologie  du  Gout"  definitely 
identified  deglutition  with  the  fine  arts.  The  wisecracks  of 
Savarin  not  only  filled  the  mouths  of  the  elegants  of  his  day,  but 
come  down  to  us  proverbially — Tell  me  what  you  eat,  and  I  will 
tell  you  what  you  are — Cookery  is  an  art,  but  to  roast  requires 
genius — To  maintain  that  a  man  must  not  change  his  wine  is 
a  heresy:  the  palate  becomes  cloyed,  and,  after  three  or  four 
glasses,  it  is  but  a  deadened  sensation  that  even  the  best  wine 
provokes — a  last  course  at  dinner,  wanting  cheese,  is  like  a  pretty 
woman  with  only  one  eye. 

By  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  Paris  was  full  of 
provincial  kitchens,  Flemish,  Lyonnaise,  Bordelaise,  Provencal — 
white-hatted  chefs  from  Normandy,  Toulouse,  Burgundy,  Lor- 
raine, Languedoc,  everywhere  set  up  shop  in  the  capital  and 
served  their  specialties;  truffled  turkey  and  quails,  matelote  of  eel 
(vulgarly  called  "the  eel's  hornpipe"  from  the  frantic  pan-dance 
the  sea-serpent  performs,  shimmying  and  simmering  in  white 
wine  and  onions),  confits  de  oie,  pate  de  foie  gras,  cassoulets, 
casse  crout,  vins  de  paille,  sauces  Robert  Bearnaise,  and  beurre 
noire,  styles  a  la  cocotte,  a  la  jardiniere,  Julienne,  onion  soup, 
sheep's  trotters,  tripe,  Pharamond,  creme  de  cassis,  mousse  au 
chocolat,  marrons  glace,  souffles.  Then  Dumas  the  Elder  put  it 
all  down  in  a  thousand-page  cook  book,  the  last  of  his  career. 
He  was  an  amateur  cook  himself,  but  exotic,  for  he  dressed  his 
asparagus  with  lobster  sauce. 

Queen  Victoria  hired  herself  a  French  chef,  and  a  French 
chevalier  made  a  fortune  teaching  the  British  how  to  mix  salad. 
Edward  Prince  of  Wales  came  along  and  dined  more  often  in 


276  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Paris  than  in  London.  Instead  of  complimenting  a  chef  on  his 
sole,  H.R.H.  Ed  said,  "This  Chateau  d'Yquem  is  excellent,"  and 
that  the  chef  averred  was  the  highest  compliment  a  diner  could 
pay,  for  the  dish  that  accompanies  a  wine  must  subtly  bring 
out  its  full  flavor. 

By  the  time  Oscar  Wilde  arrived  to  end  his  life  in  Paris 
gorging  on  ortolans  and  writing  about  them,  cookery  had  become 
so  blame  literary  that  a  dish  was  dubbed  "omelet  homme  de  let- 
tres,"  Author's  Omelet,  and  Georges  Vicaire  published  his  ency- 
clopediac  "Bibliographic  Gastronomique"  to  record  the  vast  lit- 
erature on  the  subject.  But  don't  imagine  that  any  of  this  was 
over  the  heads  of  the  people  who  by  that  time  were  calling  each 
other  affectionately  by  marrowy  pet  names  like  "my  little  cab- 
bage," men  petit  choux.  All  Paris  went  to  Les  Halles  (the  vast 
market)  at  dawn  to  select  a  live  fish  from  the  tanks,  eat  onion 
soup  stringy  with  cheese,  and  discuss  the  sapid  Fromage  de  Mon- 
sieur Fromage,  a  cheese  actually  made  by  Mr.  Cheese  himself  and 
so  named — which  is  reminiscent  of  the  famous  poulet  of  Mere 
Poularde  (fat  pullet). 

Then  Picasso  and  Picabia  came  along  with  their  modern  art 
and  cubist  salads  were  concocted  of  triangles  of  tripe,  cones  of 
cucumber  and  geometrical  lozenges  of  shrimp,  just  to  get  the 
artistic  effect.  Food  went  violently  futurist  for  a  while.  Potage 
a  la  Paul  Poiret.  Choucrout  Chirico.  There  were  fantastic  food 
fandangos,  in  which  all  seven  of  the  arts  were  crammed  into  one 
dish,  inventions  as  ridiculous  as  bananas  baked  with  anchovies 
and  served  with  a  dash  of  absinthe.  Paul  Reboux  published 
"Plats  Nouveaux,"  suggesting  heretical  compositions  of  purple 
purees  and  mauve  mangoes,  so  for  a  while  cooking  went  dada. 

Then  came  the  reaction  of  reason,  and  in  1923  the  Salon 
d'Automne  of  Paris  officially  recognized  Gastronomy  as  the  Ninth 
Art  (moving  pictures  being  the  eighth)  and  voted  to  squelch 
the  radical  left-wing  tendency  and  stop  for  all  time  their  wicked 


FRENCH  277 

experiments  with  mixing  surrealist  salads  o£  dill  pickles  and  ice 
cream.  Since  the  first  gastronomic  exhibit  of  1923  a  section  of 
the  great  seasonal  art  show  is  devoted  to  the  classical  cookery  of 
the  French  provinces,  and  the  patriot  takes  his  regional  potage  or 
garbure  even  more  seriously  than  before.  And  that  always  has 
been  serious  enough,  as  anybody  knows  who  has  watched  a 
French  family  sit  down  to  dinner,  the  head  of  the  house  solemnly 
ladling  his  portion  out  of  the  immense  tureen,  savoring  its  steam, 
sampling  its  quality  as  though  it  were  a  rare  wine.  For  French 
soup  is  a  rigid  institution  without  which  there  is  no  dinner.  In 
its  way,  the  potage  is  as  important  here  as  port  in  England  or 
dumplings  in  Bavaria. 

The  Frenchman  is  informal  enough  at  his  plain  morning 
cafe  au  lait  with  a  brioche  or  croissant,  newspaper  and  cigaret, 
but  he  approaches  both  lunch  and  dinner  with  sanctified  serious- 
ness, a  rubbing  of  hands  and  tummy,  crackling  and  tucking  in  of 
napkins,  anticipatory  peeping  under  dish  covers.  At  table  noth- 
ing must  interfere  with  his  enjoyment,  the  slightest  interruption 
is  resented  and  no  visitor  would  presume  to  butt  in  on  this  devout 
ritual. 

We  must  be  meticulous  then  in  approaching  such  a  sanc- 
tified cuisine,  which  is  not  taken  lightly  by  anybody  from  the 
most  modest  midinette  who  munches  pomme  frittes  out  of  the 
common  frying  pans  around  the  ramparts,  right  up  to  those  mas- 
ter cooks  who  have  won  their  cordon  bleu.  In  an  article  of  this 
scope  we  cannot  attempt  to  give  the  full  cuisine,  province  by 
province,  and  yet  we  must  not  overlook  the  great  classic  regional 
dishes  that  have  been  celebrated  for  a  century  and  a  half  by  such 
experts  as  Careme,  Savarin,  Beauvilliers,  Ude,  Francatelli,  Ur- 
bain-Dubois,  GoufT e  and  Dumas,  and  could  be  had  at  the  Cafe  de 
Paris,  Fouchon's,  La  Perouse,  Tour  de  Argent,  Marguery's,  Pru- 
nier's,  or  at  the  old  Au  Pieds  de  Mouton,  down  by  the  market. 

Our  best  guides  to  regional  cooking  are  the  gastronomic 


278     THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

maps  hung  on  walls,  displayed  in  art  galleries  and  preserved  in 
books.  These  give  pictures  of  the  actual  foodstuffs  and  bottles 
that  distinguish  each  of  the  provinces,  which  number  about  the 
forty-eight  of  our  own  States.  From  these  charts  we  learn  to  dis- 
tinguish the  three  divisions  of  cooking,  royal,  bourgeois  and 
peasant,  exorbitant,  medium-priced  and  cheap;  or  still  in  other 
words,  classical,  family  and  plain  folk-cooking.  This  last  division 
consists  of  "les  plats  regionaux,"  and  since  the  two  higher  classes 
spring  from  these  local  dishes,  they  are  the  most  basically  French. 

In  poring  over  the  food  maps  we  see  that  the  province  of 
Burgundy  is  perhaps  most  representative  of  the  whole  country, 
for  here  both  food  and  wine  are  combined  in  a  marvelous  menu, 
the  bottle  being  used  as  lavishly  in  cooking  as  in  Spain  itself. 
The  rival  Bordelais  district  produces  as  great  wine,  of  course,  and 
its  sauce  Bordelaise  (shallots  cooked  in  claret  with  butter,  nut- 
meg, pepper  and  parsley)  is  more  widely  known  than  sauce 
Bourguignonne,  but  Burgundy  has  two  sauces  to  Bordelaise's 
one,  the  second  being  sauce  Dijonnaise  (mustard  of  Dijon 
whipped  up  with  egg  yolk  and  butter). 

A  selection  of  Burgundian  dishes  with  their  accompanying 
Burgundy  wines  will  suggest  the  rich  possibilities  of  but  one 
province : 

Dishes  Wines 

Oysters  (now  chiefly  imported  from  Por- 
tugal). Chablis 

Hors  d'ceuvres,  served  at  lunch  only,  and  con- 
sisting of  sausages,  raw,  smoked  and  cooked 
in  white  wine.  Spiced  and  jellied  ham  of 
Persille.  Pouilly 

Soups :  Mushroom  with  cream 
La  Poree  (bacon  and  leeks) 


FRENCH 


279 


Dishes 

Burgundy  Snails 
(for  lunch) 

Fat  and  juicy,  first  boiled  in  white  wine 
with  an  herb  bouquet,  then  filled  with  but- 
ter made  tasty  by  chopped  parsley,  shallots 
and  garlic.  Then  grilled  and  served  tongue- 
hot.  A  silver  snail-holder  and  a  tiny  fork 
with  two  tines  comes  handy  in  eating  them. 

Fish 

The  Pike  of  Dijon 
(for  dinner) 

Pike  fillets,  larded  and  marinated  in  Bur- 
gundy brandy  (Marc)  and  white  wine, 
baked  with  mushrooms  and  smothered  in 
cream  sauce. 

Suckling  Pig 
(for  lunch) 

Stuffed  with  garlic,  sage,  parsley  and  its 
own  giblets.  Baked  and  dashed  with  white 
wine  just  before  serving. 

Burgundy  Cock 
(for  dinner) 

Sauteed  with  onions  and  bacon,  brandy 
burned  over  it,  then  stewed  with  mush- 
rooms in  Chambertin  wine  and  herbs. 
Each  piece  served  up  on  a  square  of  fried 
toast. 


Wines 


Meursault 


Montrachet  la 
Guiche    (Bur- 
gundy's greatest 
white  wine) 


Romanee  or 
Chambertin 


Clos-Vougeot  or 
Musigny 


Mushrooms,  stuffed  and  sauteed  in  Mersault.      Maconnais 

The  service  of  a  single  vegetable,  usually  only  with  fresh  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt,  is  unique  to  France,  for  most  other  countries 


280  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

consider  vegetables  as  a  mere  adjunct  to  meat,  although  Italy  en- 
riches her  green  stuffs  with  cheese,  Spain  with  an  cggy  and  thus 
delicious  vegetable  entrees  are  compounded.  And  having  men- 
tioned entrees,  it  is  amusing  to  note  that  the  French  definition  of 
this  elastic  course  is — the  dish  that  immediately  follows  the  soup. 
So  there  can  be  no  entrees  at  lunch,  since  there  is  no  soup,  and 
that  should  simplify  things. 

In  a  cuisine  as  vinous  as  that  of  Burgundy  quite  naturally 
there  is  little  appetite  for  sweets  after  a  meal;  and  since  the  Bur- 
gundians  have  no  local  cheese  of  distinction,  they  use  the  Gruyere 
of  neighboring  Franche-Comte,  which  of  course  is  nothing  but 
Swiss  cheese  made  in  France,  for  here  the  two  countries  are  sep- 
arated only  by  a  hair  in  the  soup-and-food  map.  The  Burgun- 
dians  make  this  fine  cheese  into  La  Gougere,  a  savoury  not  un- 
like Welsh  rarebit. 

Besides  strong  brandies  distilled  from  their  heavy  wines,  the 
Burgundians  make  two  liqueurs,  creme  de  cassis  and  kirsch,  the 
German  schnapps,  for  Burgundy  has  been  influenced  by  Ger- 
man rule,  somewhat  the  same  as  her  sister  provinces  of  Alsace 
and  Lorraine.  In  fact,  this  whole  northern  section  shows  the 
teutonic  influence  and  the  cooking  of  Strasbourg,  the  same  as 
its  language  is  overwhelmingly  teutonic.  Besides  schnapps,  Bur- 
gundy is  praiseworthy  for  this  black  currant  creme  de  cassis, 
which  is  used  chiefly  to  sweeten  aperitifs  rather  than  drunk  after 
dinner. 

Burgundy  wines,  of  course,  have  no  end.  They  are  served 
in  good-sized  globes,  never  half  filled.  The  red  ones  are  caressed 
and  warmed  in  the  hand  and  their  fragrance  frequently  enjoyed 
by  the  nose,  for  which  ample  room  is  provided  by  the  wide  rim. 

Besides  the  wines  mentioned  in  the  selection  of  dishes  above, 
there  are  Richebourg  and  Bonnes  Mares  of  the  Cote  de  Nuits 
reds  and  the  heady  Cortons  of  the  Cote  de  Beaune.    The  best  re- 


FRENCH  281 


cent  vintages  are  1915,  '16,  '19,  '20,  '21,  '23,  '26,  '28  and  '29,  Chablis 
alone  having  been  exceptionally  good  in  1922. 

Sparkling  Burgundy,  of  course,  never  appears  on  a  Burgun- 
dian  table.  It  is  an  unnatural  product  manufactured  out  of  most 
any  old  thing  for  export  to  America.  So  if  you  must  drink  im- 
ported bubbly  water,  stick  to  champagne. 

The  classic  French  cuisine  is  nearly  as  familiar  to  us  as  the 
cooking  of  our  own  Colonial  mothers.  We  eat  our  canapes,  our 
dishes  of  this  and  that,  en  casserole,  en  brochette,  en  papillote,  and 
au  gratin,  have  our  meats  and  vegetables  dressed  with  sauces 
mayonnaise,  beurre  noir,  maitre  d'hotel,  Bernaise,  Bercy,  poulette, 
and  vinaigrette,  after  our  consomme,  bouillon,  puree,  or  bisque; 
we  prepare  dishes  saute,  frappe,  and  fricassee  and  finish  our  din- 
ners with  parfaits,  coupes,  glaces,  and  mousses.  The  names  of 
the  mistresses  of  French  kings  are  chiefly  familiar  to  us  through 
dishes  named  for  "la  Pompadour,"  "la  Maintenon,"  and  for  that 
first  winner  of  the  "cordon  bleu" — "la  Du  Barry." 

But  the  recipes  are  usually  the  highly  conventionalized  ver- 
sions carried  around  the  world  by  that  curious  Parisian  export 
product,  the  French  chef,  and,  more  often  than  not,  they  have 
come  to  us  through  restaurant  and  hotel  kitchens  known  as 
"French."  Alas,  one  finds  them  from  Tokio,  to  London,  to  New 
York,  to  San  Francisco,  and  back  to  Tokio  again.  The  name 
and  the  semblance  are  there,  but  the  spirit  is  sadly  lacking;  and 
this  explains  why  the  travelling  gourmet  avoids  the  hotel  with 
the  menu  written  in  French,  and  takes  up  his  abode,  by  prefer- 
ence, in  one  served  by  a  good  native  cook,  even  at  the  sacrifice 
of  walking  down  long  corridors  to  the  bath. 

Much  of  this  same  stylish  but  dispirited  cooking  can  be  found 
within  the  ramparts  of  the  sacred  city  itself,  although,  of  course, 
eating  can  also  be  done  magnificently  in  Paris.  The  French, 
themselves,  complain,  especially  if  they  hail  from  any  of  the 
gourmandizing  provinces.     Could   they  but  enjoy   a   so-called 


282  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

morue  a  la  creme,  as  originally  made  by  its  inventor,  Bechamel; 
or  the  supper  Mme.  Du  Barry  offered  to  Louis  XV,  brought  up 
through  the  floor  on  a  table  volante,  or  filets  de  volaille  a  la  Belle- 
vue  as  concocted  by  Pompadour  for  Louis  XVI;  or  the  sauce 
Vatel  made  just  before  he  committed  suicide  because  the  sea  fish 
to  go  with  it  did  not  arrive  in  time,  at  Chantilly,  for  the  fete  din- 
ner of  his  master,  Conde,  author  of  'TEscuyer  Tranchant"  (The 
Art  of  Carving) ! 

The  Frenchman,  sojourning  in  his  capital,  seeks  out  a  re- 
gional eating  place,  uncorrupted  by  foreign  influences,  except 
when  he  goes,  en  fete,  to  one  of  the  great  restaurants.  By  the 
same  wisdom  this  chapter  is  made  up  largely  of  regional  cooking, 
with  a  minimum  of  internationally  known  dishes. 

Care  has  been  taken  to  give  the  recipes  as  they  are  used  in 
the  districts  themselves.  One  may  eat  a  delicious  bceuf  en  daube 
a  la  Provencal  in  Brittany,  or  a  wonderful  bouillabaisse  in  Paris, 
but  of  course  the  beef  dish  is  at  its  best  in  the  land  of  its  origin, 
Provence,  and  nowhere  else  does  the  bouillabaisse  reach  the  per- 
fection it  attains  in  its  home  town  of  Marseilles.  Just  as  pepper 
pot  should  be  eaten  in  Philadelphia,  although  it  may  be  ordered 
in  San  Francisco  where  the  very  air  will  likely  detract  from  its 
excellence;  and  Boston  baked  beans  and  brown  bread  in  New 
Orleans  would  never  be  anything  for  the  visiting  foreigner  to 
write  home  about. 

Note:  Throughout  this  French  section  the  names  of  provinces 
where  the  recipes  originated  are  given  in  italics  at  the  top  of 
each  recipe. 


APPETIZERS 

(Hors  d'CEuvres) 


Provence  ANCHOADE 

8  anchovies  Olive  oil 

1-3  garlic  cloves,  sliced  Wine  vinegar 

Pepper  1  loaf  stale  bread 

Soak  anchovies  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water,  clean,  and  re- 
move fillets.  Put  them  in  a  bowl  or  mortar  and  mash  with  the 
garlic.  Add  an  inch-cube  of  the  bread,  crumbled,  and  mash  all 
together,  add  pepper  and  a  little  oil  and  work  into  a  smooth  paste. 
Season  to  taste  with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Cut  bread  in  small 
squares,  spread  with  the  paste,  and  put  under  the  grill. 

This  anchoade  is  known  as  Lou  Pan  bagna,  when  the  bread 
is  first  "bathed"  in  olive  oil. 

In  Provence,  when  the  characteristic  aroma  of  anchoade 
floats  out  from  the  kitchen,  the  neighbors  remark  that  some 
gastronome  or  other  is  surely  going  to  enjoy  his  lunch.  An- 
choade, like  its  first  cousins,  the  Neapolitan  pissaladeira  and 
le  pain  dausse  (see  recipes),  is  eaten  either  as  an  appetizer  or  a 
whole  meal,  and  of  course  accompanied  by  zestful  dry  wine. 
These,  because  of  their  antiquity  and  continued  popularity,  would 
seem  to  be  the  original  canapes,  first  enjoyed  by  gastronomes 
while  the  barbarous  tribes  of  northern  Europe  were  still  snatch- 
ing their  half -raw  food  out  of  the  ashes  of  camp-fires. 

The  Scandinavians  and  Russians  seized  upon  this  canape, 
adding  to  it  their  own  tongue-teasing  smoked  and  pickled  fish, 

283 


284  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

milt,  roe  and  caviar,  then  handed  it  back  to  the  French  who 
standardized  it  among  the  hors  d'ceuvres.  But  finally  it  came  to 
perfection  in  these  United  States,  when  the  need  was  felt  for 
some  provocative  tidbit  to  accompany  our  invention,  the  cock- 
tail. Today,  indeed,  the  best  canapes  in  Paris  are  to  be  found  in 
Russian  and  Scandinavian  restaurants  and  bars  catering  to  the 
American  taste  and  purse. 

As  with  entrees,  the  originality  of  the  chef  is  displayed  in 
concocting  hors  d'ceuvres,  and  in  the  swanky  restaurants  of  Paris, 
Lyons  or  Nice  sometimes  thirty  or  forty  appetite-openers  are 
passed  in  separate  dishes,  and  no  two  of  them  alike.  They  range 
from  chitterlings  and  anchovies  to  tiny  portions  of  melon  and 
salted  tarts  of  chicken  blood.  The  best  butters  of  each  Province 
are  served  as  hors  d'ceuvres,  often  in  a  garnished  block  weighing 
from  ten  to  fifty  pounds.  Other  standbys  are  mussels,  sardines, 
anchovies,  oursins,  cockles,  pickled  cock's  combs,  roe,  tunny, 
olives  all  colors,  radishes,  salads  of  everything,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
sausages  all  sorts,  hams  cooked  and  raw,  pickled  mushrooms, 
peppers,  artichokes,  smoked  meats,  blood  puddings,  brains,  sweet- 
breads, cucumbers,  shrimps,  galantines,  oysters,  tongue,  onions, 
panisses,  little  pates  of  liver  and  almost  anything  else,  the  raw 
sausage  of  Aries,  pain  Dausse,  rillettes  and  rillons  of  pork,  onions, 
game  patties,  fried  in  pig's  blood,  tapenade,  terrines,  prunes  in 
vinegar,  saveloys,  celery  and  celeriac,  in  fact,  anything  and  every- 
thing tasty,  but  chiefly  local  salads,  sausages,  pickles  and  garnish- 
ings,  in  fact,  a  ten-course  dinner  in  miniature,  generously  descrip- 
tive of  the  great  dishes  to  follow  it. 

Picardy  L£  pAJN  DAUSEE)  QR 

THE  DAUSSADE 

Cut  a  loaf  of  hearth  bread  lengthwise  in  thick  slices.  Spread 
with  sweet  butter.     Crush  sliced  onions  and  lettuce  leaves  to- 


FRENCH  285 

gether  with  rock  salt  in  cream  and  a  little  vinegar.  Pour  this, 
juice  and  all,  over  the  buttered  bread,  spread  evenly,  cut  in  finger 
slices  and  serve. 

In  Picardy  this  hors  d'oeuvres  en  gross  is  often  the  whole 
meal  of  the  peasant,  himself  as  open-faced  as  the  farm-bread 
sandwich  of  his  invention.  Or  it  makes  a  stimulating  appetizer 
to  a  Picardian  feast  of  tripe  soup,  leek  pie,  stuffed  boned  duck  of 
Amiens,  all  washed  down  with  copious  draughts  of  the  cider 
of  Thierache. 

Provence  N£W  YEAR,g  £VE  TIDBITS 

(Bonne-Bouche  d'une  Bonne  Annee) 

Line  boat-shaped  patty  tins  with  puff  paste,  rolled  thin,  let- 
ting paste  hang  over  one  side  for  a  cover.  Lay  in  each  a  filleted 
anchovy  and  fold  paste  over  it.  Bake  in  medium  hot  oven  and 
serve  hot.  If  tins  of  the  required  shape  are  not  at  hand,  the  paste- 
enveloped  anchovies  can  be  neatly  formed  with  the  hands  and 
laid  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet. 

This  is  a  traditional  accompaniment  of  midnight  refresh- 
ments on  New  Year's  Eve  in  Provence. 


SOUPS 

(Soupes) 


There  is  such  a  sea  of  soups  in  France  that  ten  classifications 
are  needed  to  distinguish  them.  These  are  as  follows,  in  the 
order  of  the  number  of  soups  belonging  to  each  type:  soupe, 
potage,  potee,  puree,  garbure,  bisque,  bouillon,  bouillie,  con- 
somme and  pot-au-feu. 

A  dozen  individual  soups  besides  have  earned  distinguished 
names  of  their  very  own  and  do  not  belong  to  any  of  the  above 
groups:  bouillabaisse,  une  chiffonnade,  une  Bretonne,  une 
Julienne,  croute-au-pot,  la  bouillade,  l'ouillade,  le  tourain  Borde- 
lais,  etc.  Croute-au-pot  is  the  standard  crust  soup,  bouillabaisse 
the  celebrated  fish  chowder,  of  which  la  bouillade  is  a  regional 
variant.  The  Bretonne  is  bean  soup  and  Julienne  and  chifTonade 
are  as  like  as  two  pea-soups,  both  swimming  with  shredded  vege- 
tables, but  the  Julienne  a  thick  puree  and  the  chiffonade  a  thin 
broth. 

Of  the  ordinary  soups,  one  is  named  after  nearly  every 
Province,  those  of  Gascony,  Limousine,  Nivernaise,  Normandy 
and  Auvergne  being  of  outstanding  excellence.  Others  in  this 
classification  are  called  after  their  chief  ingredients,  garlic,  rice, 
mutton,  giblets,  bacon,  tripe,  eels,  birds,  beer,  wine,  game,  shad, 
pumpkin,  pig's  head,  corn,  water-cress,  hops,  frogs,  ravens,  crabs, 
cherries,  mushrooms,  chestnuts,  onions,  pears,  peas,  mussels,  and 
so  on,  without  end. 

Likewise  the  potages  are  named  in  honor  of  their  regions  of 
origin,  potage  a  la  Picarde  (leeks  and  potatoes),  le  potage  Alsa- 

286 


FRENCH  287 

cien  (eggs,  flour  and  broth),  potage  Dauphinoise  (vegetable 
puree  with  calf's  hocks,  whipped  cream  and  toast).  Others  are 
made  with  chicken,  fish-dumplings,  lentils,  cabbage-dumplings 
and  carrots.  Their  names  alone  would  fill  a  chef's  handbook: 
potage  en  tortue  (mock  turtle  soup),  potage  a  la  Soubise  (onion 
soup),  a  la  reine  (chicken),  a  la  printaniere  (spring  greens), 
a  la  Parmentier  (potatoes),  a  la  Francaise,  a  la  bataille,  a  la 
creme  d'orge,  etc.  Potage  a  la  Cambaceres  is  rather  special,  be- 
ing a  pheasant  soup  named  after  the  Duke  of  Parma,  who  always 
drank  a  bottle  of  champagne  with  it.  Potage  a  la  parisienne  is 
similar  to  this,  though  made  of  turkey,  and  the  champagne  put 
right  into  the  tureen. 

But  of  them  all,  the  most  elaborate  is  potage  a  la  patrie. 
This  patriotic  soup  contains  a  little  of  everything  and  would  be 
difficult  to  prepare  outside  the  well-stocked  markets  of  Paris.  1 
hen,  2  pigeons,  an  ox-palate,  2  sweetbreads,  liver  dumplings,  hops 
in  bud,  viper's  grass  or  borage,  asparagus,  green  peas,  baby  car- 
rots, sponge  dumplings,  seeded  dumplings,  cauliflower,  butter 
and  crawfish  tails. 

Ile-de-France  QNION  soup 

(Soupe  a  I'Oignon) 

*4  cup  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

4  onions,  sliced  thin  French  bread 

1  quart  meat  broth  or  stock  1  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Melt  butter  in  pan  and  add  onions;  simmer  slowly  until 
golden.  Add  broth,  season  and  simmer.  Slice  the  small  end 
of  a  French  loaf  very  thin;  dry  slices  crisp  in  the  oven.  (The 
French  use  an  attenuated  thin  crusty  loaf  called  a  flute.)  Pour 
soup  into  a  casserole,  float  bread  on  top  so  as  to  nearly  cover. 
Sprinkle  cheese  over  bread;  set  in  oven  and  brown.  Bring  cas- 
serole at  once  to  the  table,  and  serve  in  hot  soup  plates. 


288 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


Americans  once  resident  in  France  are  ever  afterward  at- 
tacked by  a  returning  longing  for  this  peasant  soup,  which  is 
always  served  with  ceremony  in  the  finest  restaurants.  It  is  a 
specialty  of  the  market  eating  places  around  Les  Halles  in  Paris, 
where  vendors  of  carrots  and  cabbages  rub  elbows  in  the  early 
dawn  with  jewelled  and  opera-cloaked  all-night  revellers,  over 
hearty  helpings  of  a  dish  which  is  equally  good  for  putting  one 
to  bed  happy,  or  fortifying  for  a  day  of  hard  labor. 


lle-de-F  ranee 

SOUPE  JULIENNE  DE  ST.  MAUR 

i  onion,  halved  and  sliced 
2  small  carrots,  cut  julienne 
2  celery  stalks,  cut  julienne 
Yz  small  cabbage,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  butter 
1Y2  quarts  well-seasoned  stock 


1  cup  cooked  rice 
Y2  cup  shredded  lettuce 
l/i  cup  shredded  sorrel 

(or  2  tablespoons  lemon 
juice) 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten 


Simmer  onion,  carrot,  celery,  cabbage,  butter,  stock  and 
rice  %  hour.  Add  lettuce  and  sorrel  and  simmer  5  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  egg  yolks.  The  recipe  for  this  cele- 
brated international  soup  originated  in  Paris. 


Nivernais 


SOUP  NIVERNAIS 

(Soupe  a  la  Nivernaise) 


*4  cup  minced  carrots 
*4  cup  minced  young  turnips 
4  tablespoons  butter 
Y&  pound  bacon,  diced 
il/i  quart  meat  broth  (beef  or 
mutton) 


Salt  and  pepper 

lA  cup  sliced  lettuce  and  sorrel, 

mixed 
8  small  Brussels  sprouts,  cooked 
l/4  pound  beef  marrow,  sliced 
Rounds  of  bread 


Fry  carrots  and  turnips  in  half  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown. 
Add  bacon  and  broth,  salt  and  pepper,  and  gently  cook  until 


FRENCH  289 

reduced  to  1  quart.  Quickly  brown  lettuce  and  sorrel  in  rest 
of  butter,  and  add  with  the  Brussels  sprouts.  Cook  5  minutes. 
Skim  off  superfluous  butter.  Drop  marrow  slices  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  blanch.  Have  ready  the  rounds  of  bread  dried 
in  the  oven.  Take  up  marrow  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on  the 
bread.    Take  soup  up  in  a  tureen  and  lay  bread  on  top  of  it. 

THE  SOUP  WITHOUT  AN  EQUAL 
(Potage  a  la  Nonpareille) 

1  stalk  celery,  diced  V2  cauliflower 

3  small  carrots,  diced  1  cup  green  peas 

Y2  bunch  asparagus,  diced  Salt  and  pepper 

Meat  broth  Toasted  bread,  diced 

Cook  celery,  carrots  and  asparagus  in  the  meat  broth.  Cook 
cauliflower  separately  in  salted  water,  dice  and  add.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  the  soup  is  ready  add  the  green  peas.  When 
they  are  tender,  season,  garnish  with  diced  toast  and  serve. 

PEASANT  SOUP 
(Potage  Paysanne) 

1  onion,  sliced  Herb  bouquet 

1  carrot,  sliced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  young  turnip,  sliced  1  teaspoon  granulated   sugar 

Vz  small  cabbage,  sliced  i%  quarts  chicken  or  beef  broth 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Put  all  ingredients  except  parsley  in  a  casserole,  cover,  set 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  and  simmer  until  vegetables  are 
very  tender.  Sprinkle  over  with  parsley  and  bring  casserole  to 
the  table. 


290  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Ntce       WHITEBAIT  SOUP  AS  MADE  AT  NICE 

(Soupe  de  Poutine  a  la  Nicoise) 

i  onion,  sliced  3  tablespoons  butter  or  oil 

1  leek,  cut  julienne  *4  pound  whitebait 

2  carrots,  cut  julienne  Salt  and  pepper 

1  bunch  celery,  cut  julienne  1  teaspoon  saffron 

1  garlic  clove,  minced 

Fry  vegetables  slowly  in  oil  without  browning,  until  tender. 
Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  whitebait.  Put  vegetables  and  fish 
in  1%  quarts  o£  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook 
15  minutes.    Blend  saffron  with  a  little  water  and  add. 

Provence  CRAB  SQUp 

{Soupe  aux  Crabes) 

1  leek,  minced  1  sprig  fennel 

Vi  garlic  clove,  minced  1  sprig  celery 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  l/2  bay  leaf 

1  tomato,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

1%  quarts  water  1  teaspoon  saffron 

1  dozen  crabs  *4  pound  vermicelli 

Fry  leek  and  garlic  in  oil  without  browning.  Add  tomato 
and  fry.  Add  water  and  bring  to  a  boil;  add  crabs,  herbs,  and 
seasonings,  and  cook  20  minutes.  Take  out  crabs,  crack  claws 
and  remove  meats;  discard  intestines.  Pound  the  rest  and  put 
back  in  soup;  boil  up  for  5  minutes,  stir  well,  strain  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Heat  liquid  again  to  boiling,  add  meat  from 
claws,  saffron,  and  vermicelli.    Boil  8  minutes. 

This  is  really  a  bisque,  or  soup  in  which  the  meat  ingredient 
is  pressed  through  a  sieve  and  becomes  one  of  the  thickening 
elements.  Often  bisques  are  made  with  one  of  the  thick  sauces, 
Bechamel  or  veloute;  or  the  base  is  bound  with  flour  and  milk 


FRENCH  291 

is  added.  But  true  to  the  spirit  of  the  South,  and  neighboring 
Italy,  the  Provencal  soupe  aux  crabes  takes  on  its  starch  by  the 
addition  of  a  paste,  vermicelli. 

lle-de-France 

THICK  SOUP  OF  CRECY  CARROTS 
{Puree  Crecy) 

White  Stoc\  Puree 

6  slices  bacon  4  carrots,  chopped 

1  onion,  chopped  1  onion,  chopped 

1  knuckle  veal,  broken  *4  cup  uncooked  rice 

2  sprigs  celery  leaves  1V2  quarts  white  stock 
2  sprigs  parsley  Salt 

1  leek  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  sprig  thyme  Croutons 

2  cloves 

6  peppercorns 

Lay  bacon  in  frying  pan  over  low  flame;  as  soon  as  fat  runs 
add  onion;  slowly  fry  to  light  golden  color.  Place  in  deep  pot; 
add  all  other  stock  ingredients;  cover  with  i1/*  quarts  cold 
water,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmer  3-4  hours,  removing 
all  skum  that  rises.  Remove  bones.  Strain  through  cloth.  This 
stock  is  greatly  improved  if  poultry  trimmings,  or  the  carcass 
of  a  chicken  is  included.  To  make  puree  Crecy,  select  carrots 
of  a  deep  orange  color;  chop,  and  add,  with  onion  and  rice,  to 
1  J/2  quarts  white  stock;  simmer  40  minutes.  Season,  press 
through  a  fine  sieve,  put  back  on  fire,  add  butter,  and  simmer 
until  well  blended.    Serve  poured  over  small  croutons. 

This  is  a  popular  Parisian  soup  originating  in  the  Crecy 
district,  just  outside  of  Paris  and  well-known  for  its  vegetable 
gardens.  The  carrots  of  Crecy  are  especially  esteemed  in  the 
capital  city,  which  is  so  devoted  to  carrots  that  it  can  distinguish 
a  Crecy  carrot  from  any  other  with  its  eyes  shut. 


292  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Brittany  BRITTANY  CRUST  SOUP 

(Croute  Bretonne) 

2  pounds  shin  of  beef  i  herb  bouquet 

3  pounds  beef  bones  Salt  and  pepper 

i  carrot  l/&  teaspoon  nutmeg 

i  young  turnip  6  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

i  parsnip  cheese 

i  onion  Rounds  toasted  bread 

Cover  beef,  bones,  vegetables,  and  bouquet  with  2  quarts 
cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  boil,  add  i  teaspoon  salt  and  skim. 
Simmer  3  hours,  adding  salt  and  pepper  the  last  hour.  Strain 
and  reheat.  Mince  vegetables  fine,  mix  with  nutmeg  and  cheese, 
and  arrange  on  the  rounds  of  toast;  lay  in  buttered  baking  pan 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  to  be  eaten  while 
partaking  of  the  hot  broth.  If  Parmesan  is  not  at  hand  use  hard, 
dry  cheese,  since  soft  "store"  cheese  would  ruin  such  a  fine  soup. 
Parmesan,  it  will  be  remembered,  is  Italy's  great  gift,  not  only 
to  French  cooking,  but  to  that  of  the  whole  world. 

The  French  cook,  as  well  as  the  Spanish,  has  a  way  with 
the  "bouilli,"  or  beef  left  from  soup  or  "pot-au-feu,"  and  dresses 
it  in  tasty  ways  which  make  up  for  its  loss  of  flavor.  The  meat 
left  from  this  soup  turns  up  on  the  family  table  next  day  "au 
gratin,"  "sur  le  gril,"  or  "frites"  (see  recipes). 

CRAYFISH  BISQUE 

(Bisque  aux  Ecrevisses) 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  cloves 

2  onions,  minced  1  bay  leaf 

1  leek,  minced  2  dozen  crayfish 

1  carrot,  minced  1  pint  white  wine 

1  bit  celery  root,  minced  4  parsley  sprigs 

2  quarts  veal  or  chicken  broth         3  tablespoons  dried  bread  crumbs 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten 


FRENCH  293 

Heat  butter  and  slowly  fry  onions,  leek,  carrot  and  celery 
root  10  minutes,  cool  slightly  and  add  broth.  Boil  20  minutes; 
add  cloves  and  bay  leaf,  and  reduce  heat.  Meanwhile  drop  cray- 
fish in  boiling  water  mixed  with  wine,  add  parsley  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Drain,  saving  liquid;  crack  shells,  remove  meat 
from  shells  and  claws,  discarding  intestines.  Save  out  a  few 
of  the  largest  bits  of  the  tails.  Grind  all  other  portions  of  meat, 
including  the  shells,  fine,  with  the  crumbs,  and  add  to  boiling 
broth.  Boil  35  minutes.  Strain  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Quickly  reduce  liquid  in  which  crayfish  were  cooked  and  add. 
Add  tails;  season;  remove  from  fire,  let  stand  a  moment,  and 
add  egg  yolks,  being  careful  that  boiling  has  ceased,  so  yolks 
will  not  curdle. 

LOBSTER  BISQUE 
(Bisque  aux  Homard) 

Follow  recipe  for  Bisque  aux  Ecrevisses,  substituting  a  small 
lobster  for  the  crayfish. 

SHRIMP  BISQUE 
{Bisque  aux  Crevettes) 

Follow  recipe  for  Bisque  aux  Ecrevisses,  substituting  an  equal 
quantity  of  shrimps;  shells  and  heads  of  shrimps  being  ground 
the  same  as  the  crayfish. 

BISQUE  OF  POULTRY  OR  BIRDS 

{Bisque  aux  Volaille) 

Follow  recipe  for  Bisque  aux  Ecrevisses,  substituting  flesh  of 
poultry  or  birds.  There  will  be  nothing  to  take  the  place  of 
shells  for  color  and  flavor,  so  a  larger  bulk  of  meat  must  be  used. 


294  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Provence  BOUILLABAISSE 

Bouillabaisse  is  but  an  aigo-sau  (see  recipe)  enriched  with 
a  small  lobster,  crayfish  or  crabs,  and  perhaps  an  eel,  and  a  cup 
o£  white  wine  added  to  the  boiling  liquid.  It  is  colored  with 
saffron  to  taste. 

The  dish  should  be  made  for  8  persons,  or  more,  since  the 
greater  the  variety  of  hard-  and  soft-fleshed  fish,  the  better  the 
flavor. 

Bouillabaisse  (or  boui-abaisso,  in  the  Provencal  dialect) 
means  to  "boil  up  and  stop,"  and  the  secret  of  the  preparation 
lies  in  a  hot  fire  and  rapid  cooking.  The  water,  mixed  with 
wine,  must  be  boiling  fast;  the  hard  fish — lobster,  crabs,  eel,  ray, 
and  such  gamey  fish  as  bass,  sea  trout,  and  salmon — must  be 
thrown  in  first  and  rapidly  boiled  for  5  minutes.  Then  the 
tender  fish — such  as  cod,  rock  fish,  snappers,  etc. — are  added  and 
cooked  but  another  5  minutes.  This  leaves  all  fish  slices  shapely. 
Boiling  ceases  and  the  pot  is  kept  hot  while  lobster  is  taken  out, 
the  meat  extracted,  and  claws  cracked,  meat  being  returned  to 
pot.  The  cracked  claws  are  used  to  garnish  the  platter  of  fish, 
along  with  the  whole  crabs. 

Fish  and  broth  are  both  served  like  aigo-sau. 

CONSOMME 
For  3  quarts: 

3  pounds  shin  beef  6  carrots,  sliced 

3  pounds  veal  knuckle  1  young  turnip,  sliced 

3  tablespoons  butter  3  cloves 

1  pound  marrow  bone  4  onions,  sliced 

2  tablespoons  salt  2  celery  stalks,  sliced 
1  tablespoon  peppercorns  Herb  bouquet 

1  egg  white  and  shell 

Cut  beef  and  veal  in  cubes.  Brown  beef  with  butter  in  a 
hot  kettle.    Cool,  add  3  quarts  of  cold  water,  the  marrow-bone 


FRENCH 


295 


and  veal.  Heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  then  simmer  for 
5  hours,  replenishing  with  boiling  water.  6  quarts  should  be 
used,  in  all.  Remove  scum  from  the  broth  as  it  gathers  at  the 
sides.  After  cooking  for  3  hours,  add  salt,  peppercorns,  carrots, 
turnip,  cloves,  onions,  celery  and  bouquet.  Continue  simmer- 
ing for  3  hours,  then  strain  through  cloth.  When  cool  remove 
fat.  Add  egg  white  and  shell,  bring  to  boiling  point  slowly, 
then  strain  again. 

Serve  hot  as  a  clear  soup;  or  chilled  and  jellied  (no  gelatine 
necessary) ;  or  use  as  a  basis  for  any  of  the  following  special  con- 
sommes such  as:  consomme  a  l'Andalouse,  a  la  Bagration,  a  la 
Beauvilliers,  a  la  Barigoule,  a  la  Bouerdaloue,  a  la  Careme,  a  la 
chatelaine,  a  la  Colbert,  a  la  duchesse,  a  l'epicure,  a  la  Monte 
Carlo,  a  la  royal,  a  la  St.  Xavier;  or  consomme  Andalousienne, 
Julienne,  au  quenelles,  and  de  volaille,  a  whole  index  of  con- 
sommes, down  through  the  alphabet,  comprising  nearly  a  hun- 
dred in  all.  For  consomme  is  one  of  the  devices  of  the  conven- 
tionalized French  cuisine,  and  the  standby  of  the  restaurant  chef, 
who  adds  a  little  of  this  vegetable  or  that  garnishing  to  satisfy 
the  requirements  of  a  long  list  of  soups  served  "a  la  carte."  One 
of  them  tastes  not  unlike  another. 

Of  these,  consomme  chevalier  and  consomme  Talleyrand  are 
typical  and  illustrate  the  method  of  all  special  consommes. 

CONSOMME  CHEVALIER 

Add  to  boiling  consomme  small  chicken  dumplings;  and 
chicken  breast  and  smoked  beef  tongue,  cut  julienne. 

CONSOMME  TALLEYRAND 

Put  4  grated  truffles  in  soup  tureen;  add  ^2  cup  very  dry 
sherry,  and  1  pinch  cayenne.  Cover  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Then 
pour  over  3  pints  hot  consomme,  in  which  has  been  boiled  2 
tablespoons  tapioca. 


296  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

CONSOMME  A  LA  MONTE  CARLO 

This  gay  gambler's  broth  is  dedicated  to  the  game  rooms  of 
the  great  roulette  Casino  at  Monte  Carlo. 

Cut  spades  and  clubs  out  of  cooked  truffles,  hearts  and  dia- 
monds out  of  cooked  beets.  Make  dominoes  of  flat  oblongs  of 
forcemeat  numbered  with  dots  of  truffles,  and  different-colored 
roulette  chips  out  of  pipe  macaroni  stuffed  with  cooked  peppers, 
tomatoes,  carrots,  any  vegetables  in  contrasting  colors  cut  in 
poker-chip  rings.    With  these,  garnish  clear  consomme. 

Gascony  GASCONY  GARBURE 

{La  Garbure  Gasconne) 

i  small  cabbage  quartered  Herb  bouquet 

*4  cup  goose  fat  i  thick  slice  salt  pork 

i  bunch  green  onions  3  thin  slices  bread 

2  turnips,  diced  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

2  potatoes,  diced  (optional) 

il/2  quarts  boiling  water  Smoked  sausages  or  uncooked 

Salt  and  pepper  ham  slice  or  confite  d'oie 

Blanch  cabbage.  Heat  goose  fat  and  fry  green  onions  slowly. 
Add  turnips,  potatoes  and  a  little  of  the  cabbage  chopped;  fry 
until  vegetables  color  slightly.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
seasonings,  cabbage  and  salt  pork  and  simmer  until  pork  is  done. 
Dry  the  bread  until  crisp  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole. 
Place  a  layer  of  cabbage  on  top,  then  strips  of  salt  pork  and 
drained  vegetables  until  all  are  used.  Discard  herb  bouquet. 
Pour  broth  over  top,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  brown  lightly  in 
oven.  If  smoked  sausages  or  ham  are  used  they  should  be  added 
with  the  salt  pork.  Confite  d'oie  should  be  added  only  when 
garbure  is  being  arranged  in  casserole. 


FRENCH  297 

This  is  one  of  those  inimitable  Latin  dishes  which,  although 
classed  with  soups,  must  be  eaten  with  knife,  fork,  and  spoon. 
If  haricot  beans,  carrots,  leeks,  garlic,  and  some  green  pepper 
are  included,  with  confite  d'oie,  it  becomes  garbure  Daquoise 
as  served  in  the  Dax  region  just  north  of  Bayonne. 


FISH 

(Poisson) 


Normandy  SQ^  NQRMANDE 

8  shrimp  Salt  and  pepper 

Boiled  cray  fish  l/A  pound  of  butter 

1 8  mussels  l/2  cup  cider 

iY2  pounds  fillet  of  sole  or  6  mushrooms 

flounder  8  oysters 

i  onion,  sliced  i  egg  yolks,  beaten 

i  herb  bouquet  Fried  smelts 

Juice  of  i  lemon  Rounds  of  toast 

Thoroughly  wash  shrimp  and  cray  fish.  Soak  and  scrub 
mussels.  Combine  bones  and  head  of  fish  with  onion,  bouquet 
and  lemon  juice,  cover  with  water  and  cook.  Strain,  discard 
head  and  bones  and  save  liquor.  Bring  to  a  boil  with  season- 
ings, shrimp  and  cray  fish  and  cook  20  minutes.  Drain  and 
save  liquor.  Shell  shrimp  and  remove  black  vein.  Put  mussels 
in  a  pan  with  J^  cup  of  this  liquor  and  steam  until  they  open. 
Shell  and  strain  liquor.  Season  fillets  and  fold;  lay  in  a  buttered 
sauce  pan,  dot  with  butter,  add  cider,  6  shrimp  and  the  mush- 
rooms and  mussels.  Cook  6  minutes,  baste,  add  oysters  and  cook 
until  they  crinkle.  To  make  sauce  mix  oyster,  shrimp  and 
cray  fish,  and  mussel  and  reduce.  Add  broth  from  fish  pan. 
There  should  be  2  cups  in  all.  Add  remaining  shrimp,  chopped, 
season  to  taste,  bring  to  a  boil,  remove  from  fire  and  add  egg 
yolks.  Stir  over  hot  water  until  sauce  thickens.  Place  fish  on 
a  hot  platter,  decorate  with  mushrooms  and  remaining  ingredi- 

298 


FRENCH  299 

ents.    Serve  very  hot.    The  mussels  may  be  omitted  in  which 
case  double  the  number  of  oysters. 

This  dish,  in  spite  of  its  seeming  complications,  is  quickly 
prepared.  It  is  a  variation  of  the  matelote,  and  is  served  Norman 
style  wherever  fresh  seafood  is  obtainable  in  France,  but  with 
the  Normandy  cider  giving  way  to  white  wine  in  the  wine  dis- 
tricts, and  garnishings  varying  according  to  resources  of  local 
markets.  The  Normandy  "matelote"  is  a  simplified  stew  con- 
sisting of  flat  fish  (brill  or  turbot)  cooked  in  cider  with  mussels, 
onion,  and  herbs,  and  served  in  its  own  gravy,  garnished  with 
shrimps  (see  recipe). 

lle-de-France 

FILET  DE  SOLE  MARGUERY 

Salt  and  pepper  %  cup  butter 

4  fillets  of  sole  1  cup  white   sauce 

(substitute  flounder)  2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

Yi  cup  white  wine  8  poached  mussels,  or  oysters 

4  large  mushroom  caps  l/i  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper  fish,  lay  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  add 
wine.  Place  a  mushroom  top,  with  stem  cut  off,  upside  down 
on  each  fillet,  fill  with  butter  and  season.  Cover  and  bake  6-8 
minutes.  Then  pour  the  liquid  in  the  baking  dish  into  a  small 
saucepan,  add  white  sauce  and  boil  up.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
egg  yolks.  Lay  mussels  on  fillets,  strain  sauce  over,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  and  brown  in  hot  oven  (400°  F.). 

Sole  Marguery  has  fetched  thousands  of  international  gas- 
tronomes to  the  doors  of  the  old  Marguery  Restaurant  in  Paris, 
where  it  was  invented  and  named. 


3oo  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Normandy  NORMANDY  MATELOTE 

{Matelote  Normande) 

2  pound  fluke  or  flounder       Salt  and  pepper 
2  dozen  mussels  i  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

i  dozen  shrimp  i  cup  cider 

2  onions,  blanched  2  tablespoons  butter 

i  tablespoon  flour 

Have  fish  cleaned  and  skinned.  Wash  mussels  and  shrimp. 
Steam  mussels  until  shells  open.  Remove  meat  and  strain  and 
save  liquor.  Drop  shrimp  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Cool  and  shell,  removing  black  vein.  Chop  onions 
and  scatter  half  in  bottom  of  buttered  heat-proof  dish.  Lay  fish 
on  remaining  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  and  some  parsley.  En- 
circle with  mussels,  pour  in  cider,  some  of  mussel  and  shrimp 
liquor,  cover  and  bake,  basting  frequently.  Thicken  sauce  with 
bits  of  butter  kneaded  with  flour.  Decorate  with  shrimp  or  put 
them  in  the  sauce.    Sprinkle  with  parsley  and  serve. 

This  dish,  being  "sailor  style"  is  subject  to  variations,  addi- 
tional ingredients  being  oysters,  fried  smelts,  and  mushrooms, 
and  beaten  tgg  yolk  is  used  at  the  end  for  thickening  instead  of 
flour.  Along  the  northern  coast  of  France  bream  or  turbot, 
both  being  flat  fish,  are  preferred  for  a  matelote,  although  other 
fish  serve,  and  sometimes  a  mixture  of  several  varieties,  sliced 
or  cut  up.  Then  the  fish  is  piled  in  the  center  of  a  deep  platter 
and  sent  to  the  table  swimming  in  some  of  its  sauce,  with  heaps 
of  the  sea  foods  arranged  around  it.  Cider  is  the  Norman  touch, 
matelote  of  fish  being  made  in  other  regions  with  wine. 


FRENCH 

Champagne 

MATELOTE  OF  FRESH  WATER  FISH 

{Matelote  Champagnoise) 

3  pounds   fish   comprising  fresh      i  bit  mace 

water   eel,   sunfish,   pike   or 
pickerel,  whitefish,  trout,  etc. 
K  cup  butter 

4  shallots,  sliced 
i  garlic  clove,  minced 
2  cloves 


301 


1  bay  leaf 

1  sprig  tarragon  (optional) 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

1  pint  champagne 

Yz  cup  good  brandy 


Puff  croutons 

Heat  butter,  add  slices  of  fish,  shallots,  spices,  garlic,  herbs  and 
seasonings  and  simmer  in  the  butter,  turning  the  fish  so  it  heats 
on  all  sides.  Cool  somewhat  and  add  champagne.  Cover 
closely  and  simmer  15-20  minutes,  basting  from  time  to  time. 
Carefully  take  up  fish  and  arrange  in  an  attractive  heap  on  a 
platter.  Heat  brandy  and  pour  over;  flare  the  brandy.  If  it 
does  not  light  easily,  start  it  with  ]/2  teaspoon  of  sugar  with  a 
little  brandy  poured  over;  apply  match  and  float  burning  liquid 
from  spoon  into  that  in  the  platter.  Strain  liquid  from  pan  over 
the  fish,  and  serve  with  puff  croutons. 


Provence 


AIGO-SAU 


il/2  pounds  assorted  fish 

Salt  and  pepper 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  large  potatoes,  thinly  sliced 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  tomato,  chopped 

1  garlic  clove,  crushed 

1  bay  leaf 

1  blade  fennel 

1  strip  orange  peel 


3  sprigs  parsley 
3  celery   sprigs 
Thin  slices  dry  bread 

Rouille  Sauce 

2  garlic  cloves 

2  red  pimentos 

1  thin  slice  bread 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 


302  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Season  fish  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  on  oil,  mix  well  and 
let  stand  15  minutes.  Mix  with  all  other  ingredients  except 
bread.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  quickly,  keeping  fish 
as  whole  as  possible.  Arrange  bread  in  bottom  of  a  dish  and 
pour  in  broth.  Put  solid  portions  of  fish  and  potatoes  on  next. 
Discard  bay  leaf  and  herb  sprigs.  Make  Rouille  sauce — grind 
garlic,  pimento  and  bread  and  blend  in  olive  oil;  add  cup  of 
the  fish  broth.  Serve  in  a  sauce  boat,  to  be  sprinkled  over  fish 
and  potatoes. 

Aigo-Sau,  like  its  first  cousin,  the  Bouillabaisse,  is  subject  to 
infinite  variations,  saffron  as  well  as  tomato  often  lending  it 
color.  The  sauce,  undoubtedly  at  one  time  imported  from  Spain, 
is  reminiscent  of  the  gaspacho  of  Andalusia.  It  is  energique  au 
parfum  and  may  be  an  accompaniment  of  nearly  any  of  the 
Provencal  dishes. 

Flanders  FLEMISH  MACKEREL 

(Maquereau  a  la  Flamande) 

1  medium-sized  mackerel  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  Vi  cup  butter 

1  small  onion,  minced  Juice  1  lemon 

4  shallots,  minced  1  lemon,   quartered 

Make  sure  the  fish  is  very  fresh,  since  mackerel  deteriorates 
rapidly.  Have  fish  cleaned,  gills  and  tail  removed;  but  leave  on 
head,  wrapping  it  with  twine  and  securing  it  close  to  the  body 
to  retain  stuffing.  Salt  and  pepper  it  inside  and  out.  Mix  onion, 
shallots,  and  parsley  in  a  mass  with  butter,  and  lay  inside  the 
fish.  Sew  up  opening,  or  close  with  toothpicks  or  small  skewers. 
Place  fish  in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the  lemon  juice  and  let  stand 
20  minutes,  turning  it  over  to  flavor  evenly.  Drain  and  dry. 
Lay  fish  on  an  ample  piece  of  well  oiled  paper;  enfold,  doubling 


FRENCH  303 

the  edges  of  paper  together  two  or  three  times.  Turn  in  and 
double  the  ends  over  head  and  tail,  to  make  a  waterproof  bag. 
Lay  under  a  slow  grill;  the  paper  must  not  burn  and  release  the 
juices.  Grill  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  Lay  all  on  a- 
hot  platter,  open  paper,  letting  juices  run  over  the  fish  while 
removing.  Take  of?  twine  and  remove  fastenings  from  the  open- 
ing. Serve  with  lemon.  The  cooking  time  will  vary  from  J^ 
to  %  of  an  hour,  depending  on  size  of  fish. 

Ntce  BAKED  FISH  NICOISE 

3-pound  sea  bass  or  other       Salt  and  pepper 

firm-fleshed  fish  3  tomatoes,  chopped 

Yi  garlic  clove  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Y4  cup  butter 

Wash  and  dry  fish,  rub  with  garlic,  and  then  with  salt  and 
pepper,  inside  and  out.  Lay  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Arrange 
peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes  on  top  so  as  to  cover.  Dot  with 
parsley  and  butter,  and  bake  20-25  minutes. 

Flanders 

HERRING  SALAD  TRAWLER  STYLE 

(Salad  de  Filets  de  Harengs  a  la  Chalutiere) 

3  smoked  herring  2  gherkins,  minced 

Milk  Vinegar 

1  teaspoon  French  mustard  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  Freshly  cooked  beets 

Chopped  shallots 

Marinate  the  herring  in  milk  until  plump.  Fillet  them,  and 
shred  the  fillets  coarsely.  Mash  the  roe  or  milt;  mix  with 
mustard,  oil,  gherkins,  vinegar,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  to- 
gether and  pour  over  the  herring,  stirring  until  well  mixed.    Pile 


3o4  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

in  the  center  of  a  plate  and  decorate  with  hot  cooked  beets, 
sprinkled  with  shallots.  Serve  as  an  appetizer.  A  hot  potato 
salad  may  take  the  place  of  the  beets. 

The  provinces  of  Flanders  and  Artois  (with  the  English 
channel  ports  of  Boulogne,  Calais  and  Dunkerque)  mark  the 
extreme  North  by  pushing  right  into  Belgium.  With  these  two 
foreign  influences,  British  and  Belgian,  we  find  this  border- 
cooking  exhibiting  tastes  quite  un-French.  The  herring  salad 
above  illustrates  this  well,  with  its  liberal  dose  of  mustard  a  F 
Angleterre  and  the  sugar  beets  of  Belgium.  The  gherkins  also 
bring  in  the  teutonic  influence  of  Holland  and  Germany,  which 
has  made  the  neighboring  territory  of  Alsace-Lorraine  debated 
ground  for  so  long. 

Beer  takes  the  place  of  wine  in  the  cooking  of  Flanders. 
Beer  soup  is  just  her  dish,  or  eels  simmered  in  the  light  Northern 
malt;  Flemish  red  cabbage  too,  boiled  in  beer.  Instead  of  cognac 
the  drink  is  gin  of  Wambrechies,  often  mixed  with  coffee,  and 
sometimes  Montruil  hard  sparkling  cider  added  to  both. 

The  mainstay  of  the  whole  section  is  hochepot,  a  hot  pot 
into  which  everything  goes,  from  sheep's  trotters  to  pig's  ears, 
cabbage  and  parsnips,  of  course,  and  never  forgetting  the  leeks. 
Sauce  Flamande  is  the  standard  dressing,  made  of  cabbages, 
turnips,  carrots,  lettuce,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  boiled  all  together 
in  meat  broth.  Garniture  Flamande  is  small  onions  glazed,  let- 
tuce braised,  carrots  saute  and  mashed  potatoes.  A  curious  cross- 
breed, again  showing  a  cross  of  English  with  the  French  is 
"rosbif  de  mouton,"  as  though  there  could  be  such  a  thing  as 
roast  beef  of  mutton.  Beef  is  almost  British  in  popularity  here, 
although  beef  tongue  is  purely  Latin,  being  cured  with  honey 
and  herbs  at  Valenciennes.  Other  specialties  are  spiced  Flemish 
goose,  cookies   flavored  with   aniseed    (and   here  even   an  old 


FRENCH 


305 


Spanish  custom  enters)  and  Flamiche  Flamande,  an  open-face 
cheese  sandwich,  Maroille  cheese  on  flat  Flemish  buns. 

Languedoc  CODFISH  BRANDADE 

(Morue  en  Brandade) 

%  pound  salt  cod  Cream 

1  cup  olive  oil  Juice  1  lemon 

1  shallot,  minced  Salt  and  pepper 

1  gadic  clove,  minced  Nutmeg 

Rounds  of  bread 

Choose  a  cut  from  a  fine,  thick  fish,  not  too  dry.  Soak  fish 
24  hours  in  plenty  of  water,  changing  several  times.  Put  in  a 
saucepan  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  bring  quickly  to  a  boil,  then 
simmer  15  minutes.  Remove  fish  with  a  skimmer  and  drain. 
Remove  bones,  but  leave  skin,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Heat  1 
tablespoon  olive  oil,  add  shallot  and  garlic,  and  slowly  fry  with- 
out browning.  Add  fish  and  heat  without  frying.  Grind  as 
fine  as  possible,  put  in  a  warmed  bowl  and  work  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  adding  warmed  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time  at  first,  and  then 
little  by  little,  until  half  the  oil  is  absorbed  and  a  smooth  paste 
is  formed.  Then  alternate  additions  of  the  rest  of  the  oil  with 
teaspoons  of  warmed  cream.  Blend  in  lemon  juice  and  season- 
ings. Heat  over  hot  water  or  steam.  Have  ready  rounds  of 
bread  fried  in  oil  or  butter.  Lay  them  on  a  very  hot  dish,  and 
pile  up  the  Brandade  on  top  of  them,  like  mashed  potatoes. 

This  is  a  dish  of  great  delicacy,  and  is  worthy  of  the  garnish- 
ings  which  often  adorn  it.  It  may  be  sprinkled  with  chopped 
truffles,  and  may  be  surrounded  by  oyster,  or  shrimp,  or  crayfish 
patties.    It  reappears  in  Italy  "bacala  Montebianco." 


306  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Provence 

STINGAREE  OR  RAY  FISH  WITH  CAPERS 

(Rate  aux  Cdpres) 

i  pounds  ray  Yi  cup  claret 

2  small  onions,  halved  Salt 

Vz  clove  Pepper 

i  sprig  parsley  i  small  piece  ray  liver 

Yi  bay  leaf  1Y2  cups  white  sauce 

3  tablespoons  capers 

Wash  ray  well  in  plenty  of  water.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with 
onions,  clove,  parsley,  and  bay  leaf. 

Pour  in  the  claret  and  add  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  5  minutes; 
add  the  liver  and  cook  slowly  for  15  minutes. 

Drain  the  fish  thoroughly,  remove  skin,  and  serve  covered 
with  white  sauce  mixed  with  capers. 

Provence  SARTAGNADE 

Yi  pound  white  bait  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  tablespoon  vinegar 

Wash  fish  well,  pick  over,  drain,  and  dry  thoroughly  in  a 
towel.  Season.  Melt  butter  in  frying  pan  until  nearly  smoking. 
Add  fish  and  fry,  pushing  them  together  at  the  side  of  the  pan 
as  they  cook,  so  they  will  stick  together  but  not  stick  to  bottom 
of  pan.  When  they  hold  together  and  are  browned  on  the 
bottom  lay  a  plate  over  them  and  turn  pan  upside  down,  leaving 
the  fish  in  the  plate.  Slide  fish  off  the  plate  into  the  pan  again 
and  brown  other  side.  A  thick  pancake  should  have  been  formed 
which  is  crisp  on  the  outside  and  succulent  within.  Heat  vinegar 
and  sprinkle  over  at  the  very  last  minute. 

A  sartan  in  the  Provencal  dialect  is  a  poele,  or  frying  pan; 
and  a  sartagnade  might  be  anything  fried,  but  long  usage  has 
restricted  the  meaning  of  sartagnade  to  this  one  dish. 


FRENCH 

Bordelais 


307 


CRAWFISH  BORDEAUX  STYLE 
(Ecrevisses  a  la  Bordelaise) 

1  onion,  minced  Yi  garlic  clove 

1  carrot,  minced  *4  cup    fish    bouillon 

2  shallots,  minced  or  oyster  liquor  or  water 
!4  cup  butter,  melted  1  dozen  large  crawfish 

l/i  cup  white  Bordeaux  wine       3  tablespoons   good   brandy 
1  herb  bouquet  Salt  and  cayenne 

Yi  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Heat  onion,  carrot,  and  shallots  in  3  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, stirring,  and  not  allowing  them  to  color.  Add  wine,  bouquet, 
garlic,  and  2  tablespoons  bouillon.  Cover  and  simmer.  Wash 
the  crawfish  well  and  dry  in  a  napkin.  Wet  with  the  brandy 
and  flare.  (This  is  optional.)  Add  to  the  simmering  mixture 
last  2  tablespoons  bouillon,  salt  and  cayenne;  cover  and  simmer, 
stirring  once  or  twice.  Take  out  bouquet  and  garlic,  add  butter 
and  serve  sprinkled  with  parsley.  The  little  sauce  that  is  left 
should  cling  nicely  to  the  crawfish. 

Brittany  LOBSTER  MORLAISIENNE 

(Homard  a  la  Morlaisienne) 

1  medium-sized  lobster  J/4  teaspoon  tarragon,  minced 

!/4  cup  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Yi  cup  good  applejack  1  tablespoon  flour 

3  shallots,  minced  1  cup  cream 
Yi  teaspoon  chevril,  minced 

(or  parsley) 

Cut  lobster  in  pieces,  removing  stony  pouch  and  intestines. 
Crack  claws.  Heat  3  tablespoons  butter  and  quickly  brown 
lobster  portions.  Lay  on  a  dish,  pour  brandy  over  and  flare.  Lay 
in  a  saucepan  with  herbs  and  seasonings,  and  the  butter  from 
frying.    Add  any  liquid  from  lobster  (and  2-3  tablespoons  hot 


308  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

water  if  liquid  is  insufficient).  Cover  closely  and  simmer,  turn- 
ing the  pieces  from  time  to  time  until  tender.  Take  up  and 
keep  hot.  Add  flour  mixed  with  remaining  melted  butter,  and 
then  the  cream.    Boil  5  minutes,  strain,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Along  the  Brittany  coast  plain  boiled  lobster  is  the  preferred 

dish.    It  is  served  with  coarse  salt,  and  the  fine  Brittany  cider 

is  drunk  with  it. 

SCALLOPS 

(Coquilles  St.  Jacques) 

Take  the  scallops  out  of  the  shell,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs, 
then  put  them  back  in  cleaned  shell  with  the  liquor  and  a  little 
garlic-butter  (i.e.  rub  a  bowl  well  with  garlic;  then  place  butter 
in  bowl,  cover,  and  let  stand  until  flavored);  add  a  small  piece 
of  bacon  to  each  scallop,  bake  about  10  minutes  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise. 

In  the  district  of  Boulogne-sur-Mer  scallops  are  minced, 
mixed  with  minced  mushrooms  and  simmered  a  moment  in 
butter,  seasoned,  returned  to  the  shell,  garnished  with  crayfish 
tails,  sprinkled  with  crumbs,  melted  butter  and  grated  cheese, 
and  browned  in  the  oven;  or,  minced,  mixed  with  minced  oysters 
or  mussels,  and  with  minced  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  chives, 
heated  in  the  liquid  from  the  scallop  shells  or  from  the  oysters, 
returned  to  the  shells,  sprinkled  with  crumbs  and  melted  butter, 
and  browned  in  the  oven. 

Brittany 

SCALLOPS  IN  THE  STYLE  OF  NANTES 
(Coquilles  Saint-Jacques  a  la  Nantaise) 

12  large  or  24  small  scallops       Salt  and  pepper 
1  onion,  minced  Muscadet  (White  wine  of 

Yz  garlic  clove,  minced  Brittany) 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  Bread  crumbs 

Butter,  melted 


FRENCH  309 

If  scallops  have  been  purchased  in  their  shells,  wash  well, 
and  lay  at  door  of  open  hot  oven  until  they  open.  Remove  at 
once  and  take  out  meats  (i.e.,  the  white  muscle,  discarding  in- 
testines, etc.) .  Clean  six  of  the  shells  thoroughly.  Mince  scallops, 
mix  with  onion,  garlic,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  sufficient 
wine  to  moisten.  Arrange  mixture  in  the  six  shells,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  and  then  with  butter,  and  brown  in  moderate  oven 
(350°F.).  If  scallops  have  been  bought  in  bulk,  bake  mixture 
in  scallop  dishes  or  in  small  scalloped  egg  dishes.  In  France 
scallops  go  by  the  name  of  Coquilles  Saint-Jacques  and  are  in- 
variably purchased  in  their  shells,  so  one  may  be  sure  they  are 
fresh,  since  they  are  still  alive.  The  shells  are  prized  and  kept 
by  the  frugal  cook  for  baking  or  serving  other  dainty  sea-food 
dishes. 

Sea-faring  Brittany  sits  back  picturesquely  from  her  bleak 
granite  coast  in  orchards  of  apples  and  pears.  So  most  of  her 
cooking  is  done  with  cider  and  perry  (pear  juice).  Muscadet, 
called  for  in  the  recipe  above,  is  her  one  good  wine,  all  others 
going  by  the  name  "savage"  or  "foolish"  wines.  This  is  a  great 
sea-food  coast,  its  dishes  winking  with  winkles,  oysters,  scallops, 
cockles,  crawfish,  lobsters,  crabs,  mussels,  eels,  and  sardines.  The 
sardines  shipped  from  Nantes  are  noted  not  only  for  the  delicacy 
of  the  fat  meat  but  for  careful  preparation  before  canning.  The 
finest  qualities  are  not  only  boned  but  skinned,  although  some 
sardine-sharks  who  relish  the  skin  object  to  this.  As  with  eaters 
of  mouldy  Camembert-rinds  the  devotees  of  sardines,  skins  and 
all,  maintain  that  the  sweetest  and  fattest  part  lies  closest  to  the 
skin,  so  it  should  never  be  discarded. 

Because  of  the  profusion  of  fruit-blossoms  every  Brittany 
farmer  keeps  a  bee  and  regards  this  busy  little  worker  with  affec- 
tion, almost  as  though  it  were  a  member  of  the  family,  much 
as  an  Irishman  is  closely  attached  to  his  pig  or  a  Bavarian  to 


3io  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

his  cow,  with  which,  indeed,  both  nationalities  share  their  own 
houses. 

Burgundy         SNAILS  BURGUNDY  STYLE 

(Escargots  de  Bourgogne) 

These  are  the  snails  imported  into  the  United  States  and 
sold  at  luxury  food  shops.  They  have  been  kept  several  days 
on  rock  salt,  stewed  in  aromatic  white  wine,  and  then  stuffed 
with  a  butter  paste  flavored  with  shallots  and  chopped  parsley. 
Sealed  with  this  paste,  they  keep  nicely,  and  are  shipped  all  over 
France  as  well  as  to  foreign  countries.  They  are  ready  for  the 
grill  and  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  place  them  under  the  flame, 
butter  side  up,  and  make  thoroughly  hot.  Do  not  let  them  cook 
in  their  butter,  or  they  will  toughen.  Each  portion  should  be 
accompanied  by  a  scissorlike  clamp  of  silver  with  which  to  hold 
them  while  they  are  taken  out  with  a  snail  pick.  But  they  may 
be  held  with  the  corner  of  a  napkin  and  extracted  with  a  tooth- 
pick, if  the  special  snail  gear  is  not  available. 

True  lovers  of  snails,  after  eating  the  meat,  sip  the  warm 
butter  sauce  from  the  shell,  the  same  as  oyster  and  clam  eaters 
invariably  drain  the  last  drop  of  juice  from  the  shell. 

SEA  URCHINS 
{Our  sins) 

These  spiny  sea  pin-cushions  go  by  various  names,  sea-eggs, 
sea-urchins  and  sea-chestnuts,  along  the  many  rocky  coasts  where 
they  cling  to  the  bottom  until  the  fisherman  comes  along,  balanc- 
ing himself  in  the  stern  of  his  rowboat  while  he  pries  them  off 
with  a  long  pole.  They  are  prized  for  the  spoonful  or  two  of 
salubrious  coral  within  their  spiny  shells  which  has  a  flavor  a 
little  like  caviar  and  comes  in  many  shades,  from  crimson 
through  pinkish-red  to  a  pale  yellowish  yolk,  depending  on  its 


FRENCH  311 

sex  and  diet.  There  is  considerable  waste  of  entrails,  which  is 
cleverly  flipped  out  with  the  fisherman's  knife  in  cleaning  them. 
The  coral  is  then  loosened  from  its  shell  moorings  and  either 
sucked  like  an  egg  or  spooned  out.  Both  cooked  and  raw,  it 
is  also  spread  on  buttered  toast. 

The  oursin  enters  into  Provencal  cooking  in  a  number  of 
interesting  recipes.  A  few  tablespoons  of  the  coral,  milt  or  roe, 
mashed  in  cream,  is  the  distinctive  touch  added  to  an  oursinade, 
that  glorified  fish  stew  cooked  in  white  wine,  the  gravy  thickened 
with  a  half-dozen  egg-yolks  and  the  creamed  oursins  stirred  in 
at  the  finish.  Oursins  color  and  flavor  mayonnaise  more  deli- 
ciously  than  crayfish  butter,  for  a  fish  salad.  These  sea-eggs  are 
in  fact  the  secret  of  the  success  of  many  marine  salads  all  along 
the  Mediterranean. 

In  Nice  the  natives  go  out  in  the  bay  and  spear  a  bushel  of 
these  bristling  sea-hedgehogs,  take  the  dripping  basket  to  the 
nearest  wine  shop  and  throw  an  oursin  party.  Sitting  at  their 
ease  in  the  shade  of  a  sidewalk  cafe  they  shuck  and  eat  them 
without  seasoning  beyond  their  own  sparkling  sea  water,  which 
is  drunk  from  the  shell  the  same  way  that  Frenchmen  smack 
up  the  oyster  liquor  after  swallowing  the  oyster  itself.  White 
wine  mates  perfectly  with  the  tasty  oursin  tang  and  indeed  is 
the  most  expensive  part  of  this  snack,  since  the  sea-chestnuts 
themselves  are  of  little  more  value  than  their  brothers  that  grow 
on  trees.  A  dozen  of  them  yield  no  more  meat  than  one  fat 
oyster,  so  it  takes  patience  to  eat  them.  In  Nice  there  are  street 
stands  where  they  are  expertly  opened  by  the  vendor  and  the 
salty  highly-fishy  liquid  and  vivid  star-shaped  roe  are  consumed 
on  the  spot.  Those  who  dote  on  them  say  that  no  other  shell- 
fish carries  so  much  of  the  concentrated  tang  of  the  sea. 


EGGS 

(CEufs) 


Perigord  ^^  pERIGORD 

{CEufs  Perigord) 
Sauce  Perigueux 
i  small  onion,  minced  i  herb  bouquet 

i  shallot,  minced  i  teaspoon  beef  extract 

3  tablespoons  goose  fat  or  butter       i  small  truffle,  sliced  thin 
54  pound  boiled  ham,  diced  lA  cup  fine  dry  white  wine 

1  tablespoon  minced  truffle  Montbazillac,  if  possible 

i]/2  cups  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

6  extra-fresh  eggs 

Fry  onion  and  shallot  in  fat  until  they  begin  to  color.  Add 
ham  and  minced  truffle  and  fry  until  onion  is  golden.  Add 
stock  and  bouquet  and  simmer.  Remove  bouquet.  Add  beef 
extract,  sliced  truffle,  wine  and  seasonings;  simmer  3  minutes. 
(A  few  pieces  of  diced  chicken  or  game  bird  is  an  improve- 
ment.) Pour  sauce  into  a  cocotte  dish  and  heat.  Add  eggs, 
season,  and  poach  on  top  of  flame  or  in  oven. 

Bordelais 

EGGS  IN  COCOTTE  WITH  BORDELAISE  SAUCE 

(CEufs  en  Cocotte  Bordelaise) 

!4  cup  butter  6  eggs 

6  artichoke  bottoms  Salt  and  pepper 

Sauce  Bordelaise 
312 


FRENCH  313 

Melt  butter  in  heat  proof  dish.  Add  artichoke  bottoms, 
minced,  and  heat.  Break  eggs  on  top  and  place  over  mild  heat 
or  in  the  oven  to  set.  Season  and  pour  in  sufficient  Bordelaise 
sauce  to  cover  the  whites  and  leave  small  circles  of  the  white 
visible.  ,  v 

SAUCE   BORDELAISE    (WHITE) 

2  shallots,  minced  fine  1  cup  strong  beef  bouillon 

1  herb  bouquet  3  tablespoons  butter 

Ys  teaspoon  pepper  Juice  1  lemon 

1  cup  Bordeaux  wine  (white)  Salt 

Put  shallots,  bouquet,  pepper  and  wine  in  small  sauce  pan, 
and  reduce  one  half.  Add  bouillon  and  simmer  5  minutes. 
Take  out  bouquet.  Add  butter  and  stir  until  well  melted.  Add 
lemon  juice,  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  and  beat  with  a  fork  until 
butter  is  well  incorporated. 

Burgundy  SHIRRED  EGGS  DIJON 

(CEufs  en  Cocotte  a  la  Dijon) 

3  cups  mashed  potatoes  4  eggs 

Y2  cup  sliced  onions  %  teaspoon   pepper 

Y2  cup   mushrooms  J4  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  Mustard 

On  platter  prepare  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes.  In  the 
meantime  brown  onions  and  mushrooms  in  butter.  Put  browned 
mushrooms  and  onions  in  cavity  in  center  of  platter,  break  eggs 
on  top,  season,  dot  with  remaining  butter  and  place  in  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)  until  eggs  are  set. 

Ile-de-France  EQQS  B£RCY 

(CEufs  Bercy) 

Fry  small,  piquant  breakfast  sausages  with  chopped  parsley 
and  onions.  When  lightly  brown  push  sausages  and  vegetables 
to  one  side  and  fry  eggs  in  the  hot  fat. 


3i4  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

In  Paris,  where  eggs  Bercy  are  as  common  as  bacon  and 
eggs  in  Chicago,  the  sausage  used  is  chipolata,  which  contains 
sufficient  onion  flavor  within  its  own  skin,  so  only  the  parsley 
is  fried  with  the  sausage.  This  chipolata  is  quite  a  renowned 
sausage,  born  centuries  ago  in  Italy  and  named  after  cipolla,  a 
sort  of  glorified  chives,  pronounced  c/upolla  and  Frenchified  to 
chipolata.  Perdreaux  a  la  chipolata  is  a  game  sausage,  taking  its 
name  from  partridge  and  it  is  used  to  further  enrich  game 
dishes. 

SAUCE   BERCY 

3  shallots,  chopped  i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1Y2  cups  white  wine  Juice  Yi  lemon 

l/t  cup  butter,  melted  Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  shallots  in  wine.  Add  butter  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Stir  in  parsley  and  lemon  juice.    Season  to  taste. 

This  is  Paris'  very  own  sauce,  taking  its  name  from  the  local 
market  of  Bercy,  lavishly  stocked  with  food-stuffs.  Almost  every 
course  has  a  dish  celebrating  the  name:  eggs  Bercy,  fish  Bercy, 
entrecote  Bercy,  calf's  liver  Bercy;  in  fact,  this  shallot  sauce  is 
sluiced  on  many  viands  to  make  them  distinctly  Parisian.  For 
Parisians  set  the  French  taste  for  onions,  shallots,  or  delicate 
chives,  against  the  more  exciting  garlic  of  Italy,  Spain  and 
Portugal. 

Provence  OMELET  ST.  JEAN 

2  cups  cooked  spinach        i  tablespoon  onion  juice 

3  eggs  !4  cup  butter 
Salt  and  pepper                    Parsley 

Remove  stems  from  spinach  and  chop  to  a  mush.  Beat  egg 
whites  stiff  and  egg  yolks  lightly.  Beat  spinach  into  yolks. 
Season  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Melt  butter  in  frying  pan  and 
add  mixture,  cover  and  cook  slowly.    When  nearly  done  uncover 


FRENCH  315 

and  finish  in  oven,  or  fold  over  and  cook  for  another  minute 
or  so,  until  sure  that  center  is  done.  Turn  into  a  hot  platter, 
garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

PLAIN  SOUFFLE 

!/4  cup  butter  8  eggs 

1/a,  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  scalded  milk  l/2  teaspoon  paprika 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  smooth.  Take  from  fire  and 
stir  in  boiling-hot  milk.  Beat  and  stir  until  free  from  all  lumps; 
cook  15-20  minutes  in  double  boiler;  cool.  Beat  egg  whites  very 
stiff;  yolks  very  light.  Beat  the  cooled  white  sauce,  then  whip 
it  together  with  the  yolks,  adding  seasonings.  Gently  fold  and 
mix  in  the  beaten  whites.  Have  ready  a  thick  buttered  baking 
dish  in  the  shape  of  a  mixing  bowl.  Turn  mixture  into  the 
dish — it  should  be  half  full.  Set  into  moderate  oven  (3500  F.) 
and  bake  30-40  minutes,  laying  a  paper  across  the  top  of  the  dish 
if  it  browns  too  fast.  Rush  it  to  the  table;  cut  down  in  sections 
with  a  sharp  knife  dipped  in  melted  butter  and  lay  on  the  plates 
with  a  pie-server,  taking  great  care  not  to  injure  the  delicate 
texture  or  make  the  souffle  fall  while  serving.  This  recipe  makes 
a  sufficient  entree  for  8  persons,  or  a  luncheon  dish  for  6  if  no 
meat  is  being  served. 

Cheese  Souffle  is  made  by  adding  l/4  pound  grated  cheese 
to  yolk  of  egg  mixture. 

In  her  "Autobiography  of  Alice  B.  Toklas,"  Gertrude  Stein 
has  Alice  say  several  times,  in  discussing  modern  artists  gone 
prosperous,  "and  then  they  moved  from  their  old  studio  .  .  . 
and  had  a  servant  and  the  servant  of  course  made  a  souffle." 


3i6  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Provence        THERESFS  SPINACH  SOUFFLE 

(Souffle  aux  Epinards  a  la  Therese) 

3  cups  cooked  spinach  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

iY2  tablespoons  butter,  melted  5  tablespoons   bread   crumbs, 

1  tablespoon  flour  sifted 

1  cup  milk,  hot  6  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper  1  cup  whipped  cream 

Drain  spinach  as  dry  as  possible  and  chop  to  a  mush.  Make 
a  thick  cream  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  seasonings 
and  nutmeg  and  cool.  Add  spinach  and  J4  CUP  bread  crumbs 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  egg  yolks  light  and  egg  whites  stiff. 
Add  yolks  and  whipped  cream,  then  fold  in  whites.  Butter  a 
deep  bowl  or  mold  and  scatter  with  remaining  crumbs,  then 
pour  in  mixture.  It  should  be  %  full.  Bake  30-45  minutes  in 
pan  of  hot  water  set  in  moderate  oven  (350°F.).  If  a  hollow 
mold  is  used  the  souffle  may  be  unmolded  and  center  filled  with 
creamed  chicken,  veal,  or  mushrooms. 

Burgundy 

POACHED  EGGS  BURGUNDY  STYLE 

(GEufs  Poches  a  la  Bourguignonne) 

1  tablespoon  beef  extract         Salt  and  pepper 

2  cups  stock  1  onion,  minced 

Yi  cup  white  wine  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  herb  bouquet  2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

6  extra  fresh  eggs  Toast 

Heat  extract,  stock,  wine  and  bouquet  to  boiling.  Remove 
bouquet.  Poach  eggs  in  mixture  until  they  just  hold  together. 
Place  on  a  platter  and  season.  Fry  onion  golden  in  butter,  add 
to  liquid  and  reduce  %.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  the  egg 
yolks;  steam  until  sauce  thickens.  Place  toast  on  a  platter,  pour 
sauce  over  and  lay  a  poached  egg  on  each  piece.    If  eggs  are  to 


FRENCH  317 

be  served  without  toast,  pour  sauce  into  a  hot  platter,  lay  eggs 
on  top  and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.    Brown  lightly. 

Bugey  and  Franche-Comte 

THE  FONDU 

The  Fondu  (mellowness)  is  made  in  France  according  to 
many  recipes  for  mixing  eggs  and  cheese  with  various  seasonings. 
Savarin  borrowed  this  delightful  Swiss  cheese  savory  from  its 
native  land  about  a  century  ago. 

Brillat-Savarin  was  born  at  Belley,  in  the  Province  of  Bugey, 
influenced  by  the  neighboring  Province  of  Franche-Comte  and 
by  the  Spanish  who  ruled  much  territory  hereabouts.  Italy  and 
Switzerland  also  merged  in  these  Alpine  districts,  so  Savarin  had 
a  wealth  of  dishes  to  choose  from,  Spanish  pigeon  pies  and 
watermelon  pickles;  Italian  ravioli  made  with  morsels  of  heath- 
cock,  meat  and  giblets;  Jural  or  Swiss  cheese  to  flavor  every- 
thing. 

The  dishes  of  Franche-Comte,  like  those  of  Alsace-Lorraine 
also  show  teutonic  influence,  as  seen  in  La  Concoillote,  butter 
and  sour  milk  flavored  with  brandy  and  cooked  together  with 
herbs;  and  the  favorite  schnapps,  which  is  kirsch.  Germany  and 
Spain  unite  in  the  huge  sausage  flavored  with  aniseed  and  de- 
voutly named  Jesu  de  Morteau;  and  again  in  German  pan- 
cakes as  thick  as  your  thumb,  yet  these  have  a  Spanish  name, 
Matafams,  hunger-killers,  reminiscent  of  the  Spanish  anis  drink 
Mataratas,  rat-killer. 

Other  regional  foods  and  drinks  are  roast  ears  of  corn,  grilled 
crayfish,  Septmoncel  cheese,  called  "blue"  from  its  bluish  gray 
color,  and  lacy  morels.  Anyone  who  has  tasted  morels,  that 
sweet-scented  pine-cone-shaped  pale  white  cross  between  mush- 
rooms and  truffles,  has  begun  an  endless  education  in  taste. 
Morels  make  rare  eating.  The  wines  are  from  sherry-producing 
vines  introduced  by  the  Spaniards  and  hence  the  best  of  them 


3i8  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

are  white  and  fruity:  Chateau  Chalon,  Arbois,  Poligny  and 
Beaufort.  Also  vins  de  paille,  of  grapes  laid  down  in  straw 
till  mid-winter  and  then  made  into  wine.  Wines  here  are  also 
cooked  with  brandy  and  sugar  to  make  exceptional  liqueurs  and 
one  of  them,  Epicea,  is  flavored  with  pine,  in  the  popular  fashion 
of  Scandinavia. 


MEATS 
(Viands) 


Bordelais 

GRILLED  STEAK  BORDEAUX  STYLE 
{Entrecote  a  la  Bordelaise) 

Grilled  sirloin  or  Delmonico  steak  served  with  Bordelaise 
Sauce. 

BORDELAISE  SAUCE   (BROWN)    FOR  GRILLED  STEAKS 

2  slices  bacon,  minced  l/2  cup  claret 

i  tablespoon  butter  Herb  bouquet 

i  tablespoon  minced  shallot  2  tablespoons   bread   crumbs, 

2  tablespoons  minced  ham  sifted 

Yi  garlic  clove,  minced  l/+  pound  beef  marrow,  sliced 

1  cup  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  beef  extract 

Start  frying  bacon  in  butter;  add  shallot,  ham  and  garlic, 
and  slowly  brown.  Add  stock,  beef  extract,  wine  and  bouquet, 
and  simmer.  Remove  bouquet  and  add  crumbs.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Drop  marrow  into  boiling  salted  water,  remove 
at  once  with  a  skimmer,  arrange  on  top  of  the  steak,  and  when 
sauce  is  thickened  pour  over. 

In  Nice,  where  our  national  steak  appears  quite  elegantly 
on  the  menu  as  "beef  steack"  it  is  first  frosted  thickly  with  stiffly 
beaten  egg-whites  and  then  fried  in  onions  and  garlic. 


3i9 


320  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Provence  B£EF  £N  DAUB£ 

(Bceuf  en  Daube) 

iYz  pounds  silverside  of  beef          6  peppercorns 

i  calf's  foot,  quartered  i  strip  orange  skin 

2  onions,  quartered  2  garlic  cloves,  halved 

2  carrots,  sliced  i  pint  red  wine 

i  sprig  parsley  %  cup  vinegar 

i  sprig  thyme  %  pound  bacon,  diced 

i  bay  leaf  2  tomatoes,  chopped 

2  cloves  Salt 
Flour  paste 

Choose  thick  cut  of  silverside  and  have  cut  in  8-io  pieces. 
Put  in  deep  bowl  with  calf's  foot,  onions,  carrots,  herbs,  cloves, 
peppercorns,  orange  skin,  and  garlic.  Pour  wine  and  vinegar 
over,  and  marinate  5-6  hours,  stirring  occasionally  in  order  to 
flavor  evenly.  Take  out  meat  and  drain  well.  Fry  bacon  until 
all  fat  has  been  extracted;  take  out  bacon  leaving  only  the  fat. 
Fry  meat  slowly;  add  onions  and  carrots  and  tomatoes  and  fry. 
Strain  the  marinating  liquid,  heat,  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Add 
calf's  foot.  Simmer  and  skim.  Season.  Cover,  seal  cover  air- 
tight with  flour  paste,  and  let  cook  very  slowly  4  hours.  Serve 
hot  with  macaroni,  or  cold  and  jellied  in  own  liquor. 

lle-de-F ranee  ^T-T-n   a   t  k   imnr 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

(Boeuf  a  la  Mode) 

Yi  pound  fresh  bacon  *4  teaspoon  fresh  ground  pepper 

4  pounds  rump  or  round  steak  2  cloves 

*4  cup  brandy  Ys  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  bay  leaf 

1  sprig  parsley  1  garlic  clove,  quartered 

1  sprig  thyme  6  slices  bacon,  minced 

1  sprig  celery  leaves  Flour 


r 


FRENCH  321 


Strips  pork  rind  3  shallots,  sliced 

1  calf's  foot,  blanched  4  large  carrots 

1  pint  white  wine  1  dozen  small  onions,  blanched 

1  pint  stock  Salt 

Cut  fresh  bacon  in  half  inch  strings,  and  lard  the  meat, 
making  the  incisions  run  the  same  direction  as  the  grain.  Lay 
in  deep  bowl.  Mix  brandy  with  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  celery 
leaves,  pepper,  cloves,  nutmeg,  bay  leaf,  and  garlic,  and  pour 
over  the  meat;  marinate  2-3  hours,  turning  meat  from  time  to 
time.  In  deep  pot-roast  kettle,  fry  minced  bacon.  Drain  meat 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Brown  all  over  with  the  bacon,  pork 
rinds  and  calf's  foot.  Take  out  meats.  To  contents  of  the  pot 
add  wine,  stock,  shallots,  and  strained  marinating  liquid.  Let 
come  to  a  boil,  and  replace  meats.  Proceed  as  with  a  pot  roast, 
over  low  heat,  keeping  closely  covered  with  weight  on  pot  cover, 
never  letting  the  liquid  boil.  Keep  the  stock  hot,  and  add  when 
more  liquid  is  necessary.  At  the  end  of  the  3rd  hour  add  carrots, 
cut  in  eighths,  and  onions.  Season.  When  done,  take  up,  remove 
fat  from  pot  liquor,  and  thicken  slightly. 

LEFT-OVER  SOUP  MEAT 
{Bouilli) 

Bouilli  au  Gratin — Cut  the  boiled  beef  into  thin  slices, 
after  having  first  browned  some  onions  in  butter,  and  fry  meat 
"white"  in  this  onion  sauce.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  consomme, 
a  little  tomato  puree,  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  chopped  garlic. 
Place  in  a  casserole  or  stone  crock  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs; 
add  bits  of  butter  and  bring  it  to  a  golden  brown  in  the  oven. 

Bouilli  sur  le  Gril — Place  the  sliced  boiled  beef  on  grill 
as  you  would  a  steak,  and  serve  it  hot  with  a  mustard  or  tomato 
sauce.  Even  the  famous  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  is  quite  at  home 
with  this  dish. 

Frites — Cut  the  boiled  beef  into  little  cubes;  cut  some  onions 


322  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

into  thin  slices,  or  use  tiny  ones.  Brown  the  onions  in  butter  or 
in  the  fat  from  a  beef -roast,  then  add  the  cubes  of  beef;  salt, 
pepper,  and  chopped  parsley.  Let  the  whole  brown  over  a  low 
flame  as  you  stir  it  slowly.  Now  add  boiled  potatoes  cut  in 
cubes.  A  creamy  sauce  will  form  as  you  cook,  which  can  be 
enriched  by  adding  a  little  meat  broth. 

In  the  region  of  Bordeaux  they  make  of  this  "left-over"  a 
dish  that  comes  close  to  being  a  "grand  plat."  Tiny  onions 
browned  in  butter  are  added  to  the  boiled  beef  cut  into  small 
pieces.  This  is  seasoned  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  table- 
spoon of  consomme,  a  glass  of  dry  white  wine,  garlic,  parsley, 
both  well  chopped,  and  a  little  butter  are  added,  and  mixture 
is  cooked  for  10  minutes  while  the  sauce  reduces  to  one  fourth. 

Provence 

LEG  OF  LAMB  OR  MUTTON  PROVENCAL 

(Gigot  en  Potpourri  a  la  Provencale) 

i  cup  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Milk  4  onions,  chopped 

54  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  4  small  carrots,  chopped 

Yz  teaspoon  minced  parsley  2  young  turnips,  chopped 

Yz  teaspoon   thyme,   minced  2  cups  white  wine 

Yz  teaspoon  fennel,  minced  2  cups  boiling  water 

1  egg  Fried  eggplant  slices 

Garlic  cloves,  minced  Baked  tomatoes 

1  boned  leg  mutton  or  lamb  Boiled  and  buttered  onions 

Moisten  crumbs  with  milk  and  squeeze  dry.  Mix  with  half 
the  salt  pork,  herbs,  egg  and  garlic  to  taste.  Stuff  the  bone 
cavity  and  sew  up.  Fry  remaining  pork  in  a  deep  kettle  with 
meat  and  onions,  carrots  and  turnips  until  all  are  delicately 
browned.  Season.  Add  wine  and  water.  Cover  closely  and 
simmer,  turning  meat  occasionally.  (Old  mutton  will  take  3 
hours.)     Serve  with  fried  eggplant,  baked  tomatoes  and  boiled 


FRENCH  323 

onions.  This  dish  may  also  be  served  with  diced  eggplant  and 
green  peppers  braised  in  olive  oil  with  chopped  tomato  and 
added  to  the  meat  a  few  moments  before  taking  up. 

This  leg  of  mutton  stuffed  with  pickled  pork  is  only  one  of 
four  hundred  recognized  recipes  of  Provence.  A  breath-taking 
array  of  local  dishes,  all  the  way  from  the  sailor's  bouillabaisse 
and  couscous  in  the  Arabian  restaurants  of  the  old  port  at 
Marseilles  to  the  conventionalized  plats  served  a  la  financiere 
at  the  Negresco  in  Nice.  A  menu  as  polyglot  as  that  of  New 
York  City,  from  the  chop  suey  palaces  of  Chinatown  up  to  the 
African  chitterling  dives  in  Harlem.  Yet  the  chief  influence  is 
Italian,  characterized  by  the  anchovies  that  go  into  everything. 

Hors  d'ceuvres :  eggs  and  olives  stuffed  with  anchovies,  tunny 
in  oil,  the  sausage  of  Aries,  oursins,  mullet  caviar  with  oil,  onions 
and  eggs  chopped  together,  raw  artichokes,  anchovy  patties. 

Dishes  Provencal:  omelet  of  mussels,  eggs  poached  in  olive 
oil,  pot-au-feu,  octopus  en  daube,  squid  farcies,  snail  fritters, 
garlic  mayonnaise,  whitebait  pancake,  sheeps'  trotters  and  tripe 
stewed  in  strong  stock,  le  fassum  Grassois  (cabbage  and  lettuce 
boiled  in  broth  with  milt,  pork  and  rice). 

The  honey  of  Grasse,  scented  by  perfume-making  bees  in 
this  town  where  the  most  subtle  scents  are  distilled  and  bottled 
for  export.  In  the  perfume  shops  fountains  jet  up  rose,  violet, 
heliotrope,  carnation  and  out  in  the  flower-fields  lovesick  swains 
commit  suicide  by  crawling  into  caverns  where  the  scent-makers 
store  their  rose  petals.  Here  they  fall  into  a  last  sweet  sleep, 
suffocated  by  the  overpowering  aroma.  In  such  a  heaven  of 
odors  no  wonder  the  bees  turn  out  honeys  to  match  the  boudoir 
bottles  of  Quelques  Fleurs,  Dans  la  Nuit,  Attar  of  Roses,  Pour 
un  Homme,  Bellogia.  Here  you  can  chose  a  honey  to  match 
your  favorite  imported  French  perfume.  Candied  violets,  jas- 
mine, mimosa,  rose  petals,  orange  blossoms,  too. 


324  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

The  country  cheese  of  ewes'  milk,  known  as  petits  Barrons, 
comes  in  a  small  brick  wrapped  in  a  great  big  vine  leaf,  and 
before  it  leaves  home  the  cheese  is  well  soused  with  brandy.  The 
mountain  cheese  Cachat  is  as  strong  as  Gibraltar,  highly  sea- 
soned and  simply  reeling  with  brandy  and  white  wine. 

The  almond  tarts  of  Aix,  honeyed  nougats,  sweet  nut  biscuits 
aux  Avelines — but  best  of  all,  a  watermelon  iced,  au  Vin: 

Cut  out  the  heart  only,  in  balls,  remove  all  seeds  in  the  re- 
maining hole  and  fill  it  two-thirds  full  of  Chateauneuf-du-Pape 
wine.  Put  the  iced  melon  balls  back  into  the  cavity  and  eat  with 
the  wine  sauce. 

Chateauneuf-du-Pape  is  fruity  and  mellow  and  comes  either 
white  or  red,  though  Provence  is  distinguished  for  its  pink 
wines,  Vin  Rosee,  forming  a  class  in  themselves,  but  little  known 
outside  of  France.    Tavel  is  the  best  of  these. 

The  Nicois  have  the  fine  wine  of  Bellet  and  the  excellent 
petit  vins  of  La  Gaude  and  St.  Jeannette. 

Champagne 

NECK  OF  MUTTON  SAINTE  MENEHOULD 
(Cous  de  Mouton  Sainte  Menehould) 

i  neck  mutton  2  sprigs  parsley 

Salt  pork  1  sprig  thyme 

%  cup  butter  1  bay  leaf 

3  young  carrots,  sliced  Salt  and  peppercorns 

3  medium-sized  onions,  sliced  Seasoned  stock 

1  leek,  sliced  1  egg,  beaten 
Bread  crumbs 

Have  butcher  trim  neck.  Split  it  down  the  center,  chop 
between  vertebrae  without  cutting  the  meat,  and  lard  it  with 
salt  pork.    Melt  butter;  add  carrots,  onions,  leek,  herbs,  pepper- 


FRENCH  325 

corns  and  salt  and  slowly  fry.  When  vegetables  begin  to  color 
lay  in  the  halves  of  neck  and  fry,  turning  often  and  carefully 
until  vegetables  are  lightly  browned.  Have  stock  boiling  hot, 
and  pour  on  enough  to  cover.  Simmer  until  tender.  Drain 
well.  Brush  with  egg,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  brown  slowly 
under  grill.  Remove  herbs  and  peppercorns  from  liquid.  Re- 
duce to  a  rich  sauce. 

The  Cous  de  Mouton  Sainte  Menehould  is  well  worth  the 
loving  care  bestowed  on  it.  The  dish  is  interesting  in  that  three 
cooking  processes  go  into  its  making,  namely,  frying,  stewing, 
and  grilling.  Many  of  the  recipes  of  the  Champagne  district 
owe  their  fame  to  two  cooking  processes,  usually  braising  or 
stewing,  and  baking  or  grilling.  The  town  of  Sainte  Menehould 
has  given  its  name  to  this  class  of  cooking,  the  origin  of  which 
is  obscured  in  the  middle  ages. 

At  least  two  other  countries  have  their  twice-cooked  dishes 
from  remote  antiquity.  The  Portuguese  like  their  pork  fried 
and  then  simmered,  and  the  Southern  Germans  stew  the  hum- 
bler cuts  of  veal  and  then  bread  and  bake  them. 

Lyonnais  VEAL  RQLLS 

(Veau  Roulee) 

1  veal  steak  cut  very  thin  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

l/4  cup  bread  crumbs  1  egg  yolk 

Milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

*4  pound  sausage  meat  2  bacon  slices,  minced 

\\  cup  onion,  chopped  2  cups  meat  broth 

Yz  garlic  clove,  minced  l/z  tablespoon  flour 

Pound  veal  until  it  is  %  inch  thick.  Cut  in  strips  4  inches 
by  3  inches.  Wet  crumbs  with  milk  and  squeeze  dry.  Mix 
together  the  sausage  meat,  crumbs,  onion,  garlic,  parsley  and 
egg  yolk.    Lay  a  generous  portion  of  this  filling  across  the  center 


326  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

of  each  piece  of  veal  and  roll,  securing  with  toothpicks.  Heat 
butter,  add  bacon,  and  then  veal  rolls,  and  fry  until  nicely 
browned.  Add  hot  meat  broth  and  simmer  until  done,  20-30 
minutes.  Reduce  liquid  and  slightly  thicken  with  flour.  Serve 
with  a  dish  of  mushroom  sautes. 

The  city  of  Lyons  is  second  only  to  Paris  for  French  feast- 
ing. Among  its  specialties  are  omelet  of  chicken  liver,  truffles 
and  onions,  Matelote  stewed  in  the  red  juice  of  Beaujolais  wine, 
gras-double  a  la  Lyonnaise  (tripe  in  spite  of  its  name),  quenelles 
(forcemeat  of  young  rabbit)  and  Lyonnaise  potatoes,  now  inter- 
national. 

Here  the  wines  of  the  C6te-du-Rhone  are  enjoyed:  whites: 
Saint-Peray  and  Chateau  Grillet;  reds  of  the  Cote-Rotie,  St. 
Michel  and  the  Fleurie  of  Beaujolais.  Also  St.  Lager,  the  most 
inappropriate  name  ever  given  to  a  wine.  Liqueurs  as  well, 
made  of  green  walnuts,  and  of  maiden  hair  fern  distilled  with 
orange  flower  water. 

lle-de-F  ranee 

VEAL  SAUTE  HUNTER  STYLE 
(Veau  Saute  Chasseur) 

3  pounds  breast  of  veal  1  herb  bouquet 

Salt  and  pepper  1  tablespoon  grated  carrot 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

8  fresh   mushrooms  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

6  shallots,  chopped  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  cup  stock  Large  croutons 

1  cup  white  wine  1  teaspoon  minced  tarragon 

Choose  lean  veal,  and  cut  in  convenient  pieces.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Melt  butter  and  fry  meat  slowly  without  brown- 
ing; add  mushrooms,  shallots  and  fry,  still  without  allowing  any 
of  the  ingredients  to  brown.    Turn  into  a  casserole.    Heat  stock 


FRENCH  327 

and  wine  together  and  pour  over,  adding  bouquet  and  carrot. 
Season  sauce  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  45  minutes,  basting  occasionally.  When  done  pour  in 
beaten  egg  yolks  here  and  there,  shaking  the  casserole  to  mix. 
Garnish  with  egg  slices  and  croutons,  and  sprinkle  all  with 
parsley  and  tarragon. 

Dauphiny 

SWEETBREADS  DAUPHINY  STYLE 
(Ris  de  Veau  Dauphinoise) 

1  pair  sweetbreads  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
5  tablespoons  sweet  butter      %  cup  tomato  puree 

Salt  and  pepper  Juice  l/2  lemon 

2  shallots,  minced  1  cup  hot  rich  meat  gravy 

Soak  sweetbreads  2  hours  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  Blanch 
and  remove  skin  and  veins,  then  slice  or  dice.  Heat  2  tablespoons 
butter,  add  sweetbreads,  season,  and  saute  until  lightly  colored. 

Make  a  Valentinoise  sauce  thus:  Heat  remaining  butter  and 
slowly  fry  shallots  until  tender,  but  only  slightly  colored.  Add 
remaining  ingredients,  heat,  and  add  to  sweetbreads. 

The  Alpine  province  of  Dauphiny  abounds  in  walnuts,  so 
the  oil  of  this  nut  is  used  in  cooking  in  place  of  olive  oil — as 
the  Nicois  uses  peanut  oil  (huile  de  raschid)  because  it  is 
cheaper. 

Long  under  Roman  rule,  Dauphiny  carries  down  its  ancient 
traditions  of  cooking,  notably  in  sprinkling  many  dishes  with 
grated  cheese.  Our  own  familiar  potatoes  au  gratin  was  in- 
vented in  Dauphiny  within  a  century  after  Sir  Walter  took  the 
first  spuds  from  Virginia  across  to  his  estate  near  Cork,  and 
from  there  let  them  spread  all  over  Europe.  The  Dauphinois 
grate  up  their  Saint-Marcellino  or  Sassenage  hard  cheeses  and 
dust  it  over  dishes  of  fish,  game  and  vegetables.     They  use  a 


* 


328  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

good  deal  of  Alpine  butter  and  cream  in  the  kitchen,  too,  and 
also  a  creamy-white  truffle  native  to  the  locality. 

We  must  pass  over  their  pet  plates  of  pig's  liver  and  blood 
to  recommend  chicken-liver  mousse  a  la  Valentinoise  in  their 
stead,  or  shad,  another  distinctive  dish  of  Valence,  put  to  pan 
on  a  bed  of  shallots,  onions  and  sorrel,  taken  up  when  almost 
done,  doused  with  white  wine  and  brandy  and  finished  off  in 
the  oven. 

A  sweet  souffle  is  made  of  pumpkin;  and  the  regional  baba 
is  called  pogne  de  Romans.  It  is  soaked  in  rum  in  the  classical 
manner,  though  rum  of  course  is  not  native  to  Dauphiny.  Char- 
treuse is,  however,  and  again,  thanks  to  the  Church  of  Rome, 
this  province  has  its  own  great  wine  Hermitage,  still  made  at  the 
old  Roman  monastery. 

Languedoc  CHICKEN  LANGUEDOC 

{Poulard e  a  la  Languedocienne) 

i  young  fat  hen  J4  garlic  clove,  minced 

Salt  and  pepper  6  stoned  olives,  chopped 

!/4  cup  butter  6  scallions,  chopped 

2  pounds  Toulouse  sausage  2  tomatoes 

or  plain  sausage  meat  V2  cup  white  wine 

Wipe  fowl  well  inside  and  out  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Chop  the  liver,  melt  3  tablespoons  butter  and  fry  liver 
2  minutes,  add  sausage  meat  and  fry,  stirring  and  turning  so  it 
will  not  cake.  Mix  in  the  garlic,  olives,  and  scallions.  Peel 
tomatoes,  take  out  seeds,  and  add.  Stuff  the  hen  and  sew  up 
apertures.  Brown  in  remaining  butter,  in  a  pot-roasting  kettle. 
Add  warmed  wine  and  proceed  as  with  pot  roast. 


Champagne 


FRENCH 

PULLET  CHAMPAGNE  STYLE 

(Poulet  a  la  Champenoise) 


329 


i  tender  chicken 

2  tablespoons  butter 
%  pound  lean  veal 

*4  pound  salt  pork,  diced 

i  onion,  minced 

i  garlic  clove,  minced 

3  shallots,  minced 
2  sprigs  parsley 

i  sprig  thyme 


i  bay  leaf 
Pepper  and  salt 
3  cups  champagne 
2  egg  yolks,  beaten 
2  cloves 
i  blade  mace 
6  peppercorns 
i  small  leek,  sliced 
i  egg,  beaten 


Bread  crumbs 

Chop  chicken  giblets  and  simmer  in  unsalted  water.  Melt 
butter  in  saucepan,  add  salt  pork  and  fry  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  veal,  cut  in  small  pieces,  onion,  j^>  garlic  clove  and  shallots. 
Slowly  fry  but  do  not  brown.  Add  parsley,  thyme,  bay  leaf, 
the  simmering  giblets  with  their  liquor,  seasonings,  and  i  cup 
champagne.  Cover  and  cook  until  liquid  is  reduced  and  mix- 
ture is  nearly  dry.  Remove  herbs.  Cool.  Add  egg  yolks  and 
mix  well.  Season  chicken,  fill  with  the  mixture  and  sew  up 
the  apertures;  lay  in  a  deep  saucepan — an  earthenware  casserole 
is  better — with  2  cups  of  champagne,  cloves,  mace  and  pepper- 
corns, garlic  and  leek.  Cover  closely  and  simmer,  basting  and 
turning  occasionally.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Roll  in  beaten  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  quickly  brown  under  grill.  Strain  contents 
of  pan  and  serve  as  a  sauce. 

It  will  be  noted  that  this  poulet  a  la  Champenoise  is  both 
stuffed  and  stewed  with  champagne.  But  this  is  nothing  un- 
common in  the  Champagne  district  where  the  regional  cooking 
calls  for  the  great  local  wine  about  as  often  as  it  does  for  water. 
Recipes  specify  boiling  carp,  pike,  even  eels,  in  the  distinguished 


330  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

product  of  the  Ay  district.  But  fortunately  for  local  recipes  the 
wine  meant  is  of  the  cheap,  still  variety,  not  of  the  sparkling 
type  as  we  know  it,  and  of  course  of  less  than  one-tenth  the 
price,  yet  fully  as  flavorsome. 

Ay  is  the  name  of  the  district  where  this  province's  finest 
wines  are  produced,  and  of  course  all  of  them  are  still,  until 
treated  and  bottled,  doctored  with  syrup  and  spirits  and  made 
into  the  export  article.  We  would  not  recognize  as  champagnes 
the  names  of  the  district  by  which  the  wines  are  known  locally: 
Ay,  Ambonnay,  Epernay,  Verzenay — the  ayes  have  it!  Sillery 
and  Gramant,  Bouzy  and  Dizy,  too.  Verzy,  Sacy,  Jouy,  Oger, 
Moussy,  Rilly — they  sound  made  up  for  the  Anglo-American 
trade.  Yet  these  are  the  names  of  the  natural  wines  that  go  into 
practically  all  dishes  Champenoise.  Even  the  vinegars  were 
originally  these.  In  making  the  salade  Champenoise,  composed 
of  sliced  boiled  potatoes  piping  hot  and  uncooked  dandelion 
greens,  both  champagne  and  champagne  vinegar  are  mixed  in 
the  fat  in  which  bacon  is  fried,  and  then  the  whole  panful  goes 
over  the  salad  to  wilt  the  greens  and  savor  the  potatoes. 

Reed  birds,  even  song  birds,  are  sauteed  with  sweetbreads 
and  mushrooms  and  then  doused  with  champagne.  Desserts 
consume  a  lot  of  the  local  beverage,  but  not  nearly  so  much  of 
it  as  the  townspeople  of  Reims,  where  the  great  wine  is  on 
draught,  both  sparkling  and  still,  and  is  as  freely  drunk  as  beer 
in  Hoboken,  though  in  smaller  doses.  A  special  sweet  pink 
and  white  biscuit  is  made  on  purpose  to  nibble  with  the  flute- 
ful  of  bubbly  water,  and  it  is  well  known  that  these  biscuits 
of  Reims  do  but  increase  the  thirst  for  it,  even  as  pretzels  do 
for  malt  drinks.  Lady  fingers,  too,  are  almost  a  convention  with 
this  wine,  and  a  bottle  is  usually  accompanied  by  a  plate  of 
them,  piled  up  log-cabin  style. 

If  you  like,  you  can  drink  red  champagne,  but  alas,  all  of 
the  latter  is  without  sparkle.    It  is  called  bruit  or  nature,  either 


FRENCH 


33i 


red  or  white  and  many  Frenchmen  will  drink  nothing  else  but 
the  natural  white  with  oysters. 


Bordelais 


CHICKEN  BORDELAISE 
(Poulet  Saute  Bordelaise) 
1  young  chicken,  jointed         4  raw  artichoke  bottoms 


Y2  garlic  clove,  minced 
1  teaspoon  beef  extract 
1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
Juice  }4  lemon 
Small  artichokes,  sauteed 


Flour  for  dredging 
2  slices  bacon,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  shallot,  minced 
Yi  cup  white  wine 

Lightly  dredge  chicken  with  flour.  Start  frying  bacon  in 
olive  oil;  add  shallot  and  chicken  and  brown  quickly  for  5-8 
minutes,  turning  the  pieces  so  as  to  color  on  all  sides.  Add  wine 
and  artichoke  bottoms,  cut  in  quarters.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  closely  and  simmer  slowly  15-25  minutes,  uncover- 
ing to  baste  once  or  twice.  Add  beef  extract,  lemon  juice  and 
parsley,  and  shake  the  pan  to  mix.  Take  up,  make  a  gravy  of 
remaining  contents  of  the  pan,  and  pour  over,  or  serve  in  a 
boat.    Garnish  the  platter  with  small  artichokes,  sauteed. 


Bresse 


CHICKEN  WITH  CRAY  FISH  BUTTER 

(Poularde  au  Beurre  d'Ecrivisses) 


1  cup  bread  crumbs 
Yi  pound  lean  veal 
Yi  pound  ham 
1  tablespoon  minced  onion 
1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
!/4  teaspoon  minced  thyme 
!/4  bay  leaf,  minced 
Salt  and  pepper 

1  egg 

2  tablespoons  butter 
1  fat  chicken 


Crayfish  Butter 
3  dozen  crayfish 
1  herb  bouquet 
3  cloves 
6  allspice 
12  peppercorns 

1  onion,  sliced 

3  tablespoons   wine  vinegar 
Salt 

2  cups  white  wine 

Yi  pound  fresh  butter 


332  THE  EUROPEAN   COOKBOOK 

Soak  bread  in  water  and  squeeze  dry.  Add  veal,  ham, 
onion,  parsley,  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  seasonings  and  put  through 
food  grinder.  Mix  thoroughly  with  egg.  Stuff  chicken  and 
sew  up.    Roast  with  butter,  basting  frequently. 

CRAYFISH  BUTTER 

Wash  crayfish.  Boil  remaining  ingredients  except  wine  and 
butter  in  2  quarts  of  water  for  l/2  hour.  Strain,  add  wine,  bring 
to  a  boil,  add  crayfish  and  cook  20  minutes.  Let  cool  in  liquor. 
Drain,  saving  liquid;  shell  and  save  tails.  Grind  shells  fine  and 
mix  with  melted  butter.  Heat  5  minutes.  Cool  slightly  and 
rub  through  a  sieve  into  ice  water.  Gather  up  butter,  heat,  add 
tails  and  serve  with  chicken. 

The  chicken  farmers  of  Bresse  have  mastered  the  art  of  fat- 
tening their  birds  much  as  the  geese  farmers  of  Strasbourg  have 
specialized  on  the  secret  of  fattening  the  livers  for  pate  de  foie 
gras.  Bresse  chickens  are  shipped  all  over  France  and  can  be 
bought  at  the  best  poultry  markets  in  all  cities. 

Due  to  forced  fattening,  the  livers  of  Bresse  chickens  become 
enormous,  though  not  as  gigantic  as  the  goose  livers  of  Stras- 
bourg, which  sometimes  weigh  pounds.  The  chicken  livers  of 
Bresse  are  boiled,  pounded  to  powder  and  stirred  with  milk  and 
eggs  into  a  supreme  nutmeg-flavored  mousse. 

The  Province  of  Bresse  was  long  under  Spanish  domination, 
so  it  still  uses  the  corn  flour  and  watermelon  pickles  of  that 
country,  the  pickles  being  either  sour  for  appetizers  or  sweet 
for  dessert. 

Cardoons  flourish  here,  sizable  thistles  that  never  quite  be- 
come artichokes.  They  have  leaves  like  the  acanthus  and  the 
whole  stalky  plant,  except  the  root,  is  browned  with  truffles  and 
juices  from  roast  chicken  or  turkey. 

An  attractive  dish  of  the  district  is  apple  slices  covered  with 
batter  and  baked  on  cabbage  leaves  well  buttered. 


FRENCH  333 

Burgundy 

CHICKEN  IN  THE  STYLE  OF  BEAUNE 
(Poulet  a  la  Mode  de  Beaune) 

Salt  and  pepper  i  dozen  large  mushrooms 

i  fat  young  chicken  i  truffle,  sliced 

%  pound  butter  %  cup  brandy 

i  herb  bouquet  i  pint  thick  cream 

Salt  and  pepper  chicken  inside  and  out.  Spread  with  butter 
and  place  herb  bouquet  inside,  then  roast,  preferably  in  a  covered 
casserole,  turning  and  basting  from  time  to  time.  When  done 
remove  bouquet,  surround  it  with  well  washed  and  dried  mush- 
rooms and  truffles  slices.  Cover  and  simmer  8-10  minutes.  Pour 
over  it  brandy  and  hot  cream,  and  serve  in  the  casserole  in  which 
it  was  baked.  (This  dish  is  better  when  made  on  top  of  the 
stove,  but  requires  much  care  and  attention  to  prevent  undue 

browning.) 

6  DUCK  IN  A  CHEMISE 

(Canard  en  Chemise) 

1  tender  duck  2  sprigs  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  Pastry  dough 

1  sprig  celery  Pate   de   foie   gras 

Prepare  duck,  rub  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
lay  herbs  inside.  Roll  out  pastry  dough  sufficient  to  envelop 
the  duck.  Lay  duck,  breast  upward,  on  pastry,  cover  breast  with 
foie  gras  (or  with  a  paste  made  by  frying  livers  and  giblets  with 
plenty  of  fat  bacon,  pepper  and  seasoning,  and  pounding  until 
they  form  a  thick  mass).  After  the  paste  is  evenly  spread  over 
the  duck,  carefully  fold  pastry  over  it  and  pinch  the  edges  to- 
gether. Lay  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  the  oven,  then  transfer  to 
platter. 

Brought  to  the  table  the  dish  looks  like  a  large  mound  of 
pastry,  and  should  be  carved,  as  it  is  in  France.    For  this  is  not 


334  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

a  dinner-party  dish,  but  one  to  be  enjoyed  among  intimates. 
The  host,  who  in  France  is  always  an  expert  carver,  runs  a 
sharp  knife  round  the  crust  at  the  bottom.  The  top  crust  is 
taken  or?  and  sent  to  the  side  table;  for  the  great  delicacy,  to  be 
carefully  portioned,  is  the  crust  beneath  the  duck  into  which  the 
foie  gras  has  soaked.  The  upper  crust,  it  is  remarked  in  a 
French  cook  book,  may  be  served  to  the  children,  or  to  the  poor 
relation  who  is  not  supposed  to  know  the  difference. 

DUCKLING  WITH  SOUR  ORANGES 

(Caneton  a  la  Bigarde) 

i  duckling  3  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  1  orange,  rind  and  juice 

3  cooked  carrots,  sliced  1  small  glass  currant  jelly 

2  onions,  sliced  Toasted  bread 

1  orange,  sectioned 

Roast  duckling  20  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Season,  reduce  heat 
to  moderate  and  allow  20  minutes  more  for  each  pound.  Fry 
the  carrots  and  onions  in  a  little  of  the  butter  until  the  onions 
are  brown,  and  add.  Cut  the  orange  rind  into  thin  strips  and 
cook  in  a  little  hot  water  until  they  are  soft,  and  add.  Add 
orange  juice  and  jelly  to  the  duck  gravy  in  the  roasting  pan. 
Heat  until  jelly  is  melted,  mixing  well.  Place  the  duck  on  the 
toast,  decorate  the  breast  with  fresh  orange  sections.  Serve  gravy 
in  a  boat. 

The  bigarde  is  the  sour  orange  of  Seville,  exported  to  a 
number  of  neighboring  countries.  It  is  excellent  for  cooking. 
A  large  portion  of  the  Spanish  crop  goes  to  England,  where  it 
is  made  up  into  the  tangy  marmalade  which  appears  on  every 
English  breakfast  table  and  is  shipped  to  America  in  small  stone 
jars,  under  well  known  brands. 


FRENCH  335 

Normandy  GOQSE  ^  SMJCE 

(Oie  en  Daube) 

i  young  fat  goose  %  teaspoon  ground  mace 

Salt  and  pepper  2  teaspoons  applejack 

2  pounds  lean  pork,  ground  1  piece  salt  pork  rind 

3  slices   bacon,  minced  2  cups  stock 

2  eggs  1  onion,  chopped 

4  apples  1  leek,  sliced 
2V2  cups  cider  1  carrot,  sliced 

l/$  teaspoon  ground  cloves  Apple  marmalade 

Wipe  the  goose  and  season  inside  and  out  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Chop  goose  liver  and  mix  with  pork,  bacon,  eggs  and 
seasonings.  Pare  apples,  cut  in  quarters  and  cook  with  f/2  cup 
cider,  cloves  and  mace.  Cool,  mash,  add  applejack  and  add  to 
pork  mixture,  mixing  well.  Stuff  goose  and  sew  up  apertures. 
Lay  pork  rind  in  deep  pot,  and  place  goose  on  top.  Heat  stock 
and  remaining  cider  together  and  pour  over.  Add  onion,  leek, 
and  carrot.  Cook  rapidly  10  minutes,  then  cover  and  simmer, 
turning  occasionally,  until  done.  Take  up.  Skim  fat  from 
liquid  and  thicken.    Serve  apple  marmalade  on  the  side. 

The  French  speak  of  Normandy  la  Grasse,  "the  fat,"  and 
they  ought  to  know.  Cream-fattened,  cider-swelled,  cheese- 
stuffed,  this  rich  province  tucks  her  legs  under  the  mahogany 
to  gorge  on  the  cuisine  a  la  creme:  tripes  a  la  mode  de  Caen, 
the  buttered  ducks  of  Rouen  on  which  apple-jack  is  burned  and 
not  considered  wasted,  mussels  stewed  in  cream,  lobster  with 
shrimp  butter  sauce,  the  shrimp  themselves  big,  blush-rose  beau- 
ties. Sole  sauteed  in  cider,  wine-soused  mackerel,  chitterlings 
grilled  in  paper  buttered  with  the  exceptional  beurre  fine  of 
Isigny.  Omelette  de  la  Mere  Poulard,  Mother  Fat-Hen's  cream 
omelet  with  egg  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  as  justly 


336  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

famous  in  Normandy  as  Madame  Bougay's  breakfast  eggs  were 
in  New  Orleans.  For  drinks  champagne  cider,  sparkling  and 
heady,  and  the  native  Calvados.  Try  the  pre-Civil  War  apple 
jack,  bottled  in  i860. 

Besides  being  a  fat,  creamy  cuisine,  Normandy  is  further 
enriched  by  her  fermented  and  distilled  apple  juice.  The  use 
of  both  cider  and  Calvados  in  one  dish,  with  apple  marmalade 
on  the  side,  as  in  the  oie  en  daube  above,  sets  her  aside  from  the 
usual  wine-cooking  of  France.  But  the  fact  that  she  is  the  proud 
mother  of  the  soft  and  aromatic  cheeses,  Camembert,  Port-Salut 
and  Pont-1'eveque  brings  her  back  into  the  fold.  In  the  Nor- 
mandy town  where  Camembert  originated  there  is  a  stately 
statue  to  the  lady  who  invented  it.  Today  there  is  the  "Syndicat 
du  Vrai  Camembert"  which  stamps  its  proud  name  on  the  tiny 
round  wooden  boxes  of  the  genuine  article. 

For  a  distinctive  sweet  try  the  apple  marmalade  souffle  with 
whipped  cream  and  Calvados  ablaze  (see  recipe). 

Champagne  QUAIL  ]N  HQT  ASRES 

(Cailles  a  la  C  end  re) 

For  each  pair  of  birds: 

2  slices  bacon,  minced  %  teaspoon    minced   thyme 

1  chicken  liver,  chopped  1  egg 

Yi  cup  bread   crumbs  1  tablespoon  brandy 

Salt  and  pepper  2  4-inch  squares  salt  pork 

2  tablespoons  chopped  truffles  Butter 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  Dry  toast 

Season  birds  inside  and  out.  Fry  bacon;  add  chicken  liver 
with  chopped  quail  liver  and  fry  2  minutes.  Mix  with  bread 
crumbs  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  dry,  seasonings,  truffles, 
parsley  and  thyme.  Then  add  egg  and  brandy.  Stuff  birds  with 
this  dressing.    Bind  salt  pork  over  breast  of  each  and  truss  legs 


FRENCH  337 

and  wings  with  same  twine.  Then  wrap  in  grape  leaves  (if 
at  hand) .  Wrap  in  well-buttered  paper,  doubling  edges  together 
and  turning  in  ends;  wrap  each  in  second  buttered  paper  in 
same  manner  to  make  sure  no  juices  escape.  If  possible  cook 
in  hot  wood  embers;  otherwise  set  beneath  hot  grill  with  door 
open  and  turn  frequently.  When  papers  are  removed  be  careful 
to  save  all  juices.    Serve  on  dry  toast. 

If  this  dish  is  being  prepared  in  a  hunting  camp,  truffled 
pate  de  foie  gras  out  of  a  tin  may  be  substituted  for  fresh  chicken 
livers  and  fresh  truffles. 

Perigord  PARTRIDGE  PERIGUEUX 

(Perdreau  a  la  Perigueux) 

Y2  pound  truffles,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

3  ounces  fat  bacon,  chopped  Bacon  slices 

i  pair  partridges  Sauce  Perigueux 

Grind  truffles  and  chopped  bacon  together,  putting  them 
through  the  grinder  several  times  to  mix  thoroughly  and  reduce 
to  a  mass.  Put  mixture  into  a  small  sauce  pan  and  heat  and 
stir.  As  soon  as  heated  through,  remove  from  fire  and  cool. 
Salt  and  pepper  birds  inside  and  out,  and  stuff.  Wrap  in  bacon 
slices,  and  tie  securely.  Leave  on  ice  for  2  days.  Wrap  in  but- 
tered paper  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Remove  paper  and  let 
brown.  Remove  twine.  Dish  up,  and  serve  with  Perigueux 
Sauce. 

SAUCE  PERIGUEUX 

1  small  onion,  chopped  l/2  cup  Madeira 

1  shallot,  chopped  1  herb  bouquet 

*4  pound  raw  ham,  chopped       %  cup  brown  gravy 

2  tablespoons  butter  *4  cup  minced  truffles 

Salt  and  pepper 

Slowly  fry  onion,  shallot,  and  ham  in  butter  until  slightly 
browned.    Add  Madeira  and  bouquet.     Simmer  until  reduced 


338  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

one-half,  add  gravy,  boil  up,  strain,  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Add  truffles,  season  highly,  cook  3  minutes,  and  serve. 

Nivernais 
PARTRIDGE  OR  PHEASANT  WITH  SAUERKRAUT 

(Perdreaux  ou  Faisan  a  la  Choucroute) 

Salt  and  pepper  il/2  pounds  sauerkraut 

2  partridges  or  1  pheasant  1  cup  peeled  and  sliced  apples 
Bacon  slices  l/2  cup  white  wine 

3  tablespoons  goose  fat  or  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  and  pepper  birds.  Wrap  in  bacon  slices  and  tie  securely 
with  twine.  Heat  fat  and  brown  bacon-wrapped  bird  lightly. 
Wash  sauerkraut  in  cold  water,  drain  and  wring  dry.  Place  a 
layer  of  kraut  with  several  apple  slices  in  bottom  of  a  deep  fire- 
proof dish  or  casserole  and  imbed  the  birds.  Cover  with  kraut 
and  rest  of  apple  slices.  Pour  the  wine  over,  adding  a  little  water. 
Cover  closely  and  let  simmer  and  steam  for  iJ^-2  hours.  Take 
up  birds.  Thicken  kraut  with  flour.  Make  nests  in  the  kraut 
and  replace  birds.    Serve  in  same  dish. 

M.  Andre  Simon,  chief  fork  of  the  London  Wine  and  Food 
Society,  says:  "A  partridge,  in  French  gastronomic  parlance,  is 
always  masculine,  whatever  its  sex,  when  young  and  tender:  un 
perdreau.  When  no  longer  young  nor  quite  so  tender,  it  is  in- 
variably feminine,  une  perdrix.  The  spit  and  an  open  fire  and  its 
own  juice  suit  the  perdreau  admirably,  but  the  perdrix  is  at  her 
best  in  a  soft  nest  of  well-cooked  cabbage." 

Alsace  ALSATIAN  SAUERKRAUT 

{Choucroute  Alsacienne) 

l/2  pound  goose  fat  1  large  carrot,  chopped 

2  pounds   sauerkraut  l/z  pound  bacon,  thick  slices 

1  large  onion,  minced  Vi  pound  ham,  thin  slices 


FRENCH  339 

Vz  pound  smoked  sausage  Juniper   berries    (optional) 

2  apples,  peeled  and  sliced  i  pint  white  wine 

i  dozen  peppercorns  i  pint  meat  broth 

Arrange  ingredients  in  a  casserole  in  alternating  layers. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper,  then  fit  the  cover  on,  making  as 
nearly  air-tight  as  possible.  Set  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  and 
bake  il/2  hours.  Serve  sauerkraut  very  hot,  with  meats  laid  on 
top. 

Brasserie  Lipp,  Boulevard  St.  Germain,  the  Alsatian  center 
of  Paris,  makes  a  great  specialty  of  sauerkraut  cooked  in  this 
manner,  and  qualifies  the  bad  reputation  of  French  beers  by 
drawing  an  excellent  Alsatian  brew  which  invariably  accom- 
panies the  dish. 

Champagne 

YOUNG  RABBIT  CHAMPAGNE  STYLE 

(Lapereau  Saute  au  Champagne) 

%  pound  butter  2  cups  champagne  or  white  wine 

2  tablespoons  minced  ham  Half  a  bay  leaf 

1  young  rabbit,  quartered  2  sprigs  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  1  sprig  thyme 

3  shallots,  sliced  thin 

Heat  butter,  add  ham  and  seasoned  rabbit.  Slowly  and 
lightly  brown.  Take  up  rabbit,  add  champagne,  herbs  and 
shallot.  Cover  and  heat.  Put  back  rabbit  and  simmer  until 
tender,  keeping  closely  covered,  basting  and  turning  occasionally. 
An  earthenware  casserole  is  best  for  the  second  process. 


340 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


Languedoc 

CASSOULET  A  LA  LANGUEDOCIENNE 


i  pound  white  haricot  beans 

Fresh  pork  rind 

Confit   d'oie   (potted,  braised, 

boned  goose,  sealed  with  fat) 
i  onion,  chopped 
2  tablespoons  well-reduced 

tomato  puree 
i  cup  white  wine 


l/i  cup  meat  broth 

2  garlic   cloves,  crushed 

i  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

*4  cup  mixture  bread  crumbs 

and   garlic   with   parsley 

minced   together 


Soak  beans  over  night,  parboil  with  pork  rind,  and  drain. 
Heat  fat  from  confit  d'oie,  and  brown  wings  and  legs;  lay  in  a 
casserole.  Mix  onion,  tomato  puree,  wine,  broth,  garlic  cloves, 
parsley  and  seasonings.  Put  beans  and  pork  rind  on  top;  then 
turn  upside  down  into  the  casserole  on  top  of  browned  goose. 
Sprinkle  with  crumb-garlic  mixture,  cover  and  bake;  uncover 
and  brown. 


Languedoc 


CASSOULET  DE  CASTELNAUDARY 

i  pound   dry   kidney   beans         i  tablespoon  flour 


i  goose  leg  and  wing 

from  "confit  d'oie" 
%  cup  goose  fat  or  butter 
%  pound  bacon,  chopped 
i  large  onion,  sliced 


i  quart  meat  broth 

i  large  tomato,  chopped 

i  herb  bouquet 

l/2  pound  country  sausage 

Bread  crumbs 


Chopped  parsley 

Soak  beans  over  night,  then  parboil  until  skins  slip.  Drain. 
Add  boiling  water  and  salt  and  cook  until  %  done;  drain. 
Brown  goose  leg  and  wing  in  fat.  Fry  bacon  and  onion  until 
lightly  browned.  Blend  in  flour,  add  boiling  broth  slowly  and 
cook  5  minutes.     Add  tomato  and  bouquet,  cook  for  a  few 


FRENCH  341 

minutes  and  remove  bouquet.  Put  mixture  in  an  earthenware 
casserole  with  the  sausages  and  bake  until  done.  Sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  parsley  and  allow  to  become  brown  and  crisp. 

Cassoulet  is  the  dish  that  Sheila  Hibben  deservedly  calls 
"that  divine  gift  of  the  Midi."  The  recipe  differs  slightly  in 
the  various  districts.  In  Carcassonne  pork  chops  and  garlic  are 
added;  in  Toulouse,  a  portion  of  leg  of  mutton  or  lamb;  in  Bas 
Languedoc,  juniper  berries;  in  Gascony,  white  wine  and  browned 
pork;  in  Perigord,  truffles,  of  course,  and  stuffed  gooseneck, 
with  juniper  berries.  Limosin  makes  a  cassoulet  without  confit 
d'oie.  And  Alsace,  home  of  the  goose,  and  a  pate  de  foie  gras, 
seizes  upon  the  Languedocian  invention  with  enthusiasm,  and 
adds  the  calf's  foot  and  knuckle,  and  smoked  ham  and  smoked 
sausage,  with  which  other  fine  Alsatian  dishes  are  adorned. 

SAUCE  OF  CHIVES 

(Sauce  Civette) 

1  slice  fresh  white  bread         Salt 

4  egg  yolks,  hard-boiled  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Vinegar 

Sugar  (granulated)  1  tablespoon  chives,  chopped  fine 

Cut  away  bread  crusts,  soak  the  soft  center  in  water,  squeeze 
dry  and  rub  with  egg  yolks  through  hair  sieve.  Stir  in  the  olive 
oil,  season  sour-sweet  to  taste.  When  smooth,  whip  in  the 
chives. 

In  French  the  word  civette  means  both  civet  cat  and  chives. 
It  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  civet,  the  French  word  for 
jugged  hare  or  stewed  rabbit;  yet  there  is  a  close  connection 
between  cat  and  rabbit,  for  the  domestic  cat  often  takes  the  place 
of  the  wild  hare  or  rabbit  in  the  French  jug  or  stew,  so  we  may 
surmise  that  this  dish  took  its  name  not  from  the  chives  with 
which  it  is  sometimes  cooked,  but  from  a  playful  substitution 


342  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

of  wild  cat,  or  civet  cat,  for  the  hare.    In  Paris  an  alley  cat  is 
also  called  a  "roof  rabbit." 

Languedoc 

VOL-AU-VENT  A  LA  TOULOUSE 

i  chicken  breast,  cooked  i  cup  white  sauce 

i  sweetbread  cooked  in  chicken  *4  cup  white  wine 

broth  Salt  and  pepper 

Tiny  chicken  quenelles  Patty  or  puff  paste  shells 
Sliced  truffle 

Cut  chicken  and  sweetbread  in  small  dice;  simmer  a  few 
minutes,  with  quenelles  and  truffle,  in  white  sauce  mixed  with 
wine.  Season;  fill  shells  with  mixture,  allowing  i  quenelle  and 
i  bit  of  truffle  for  each.  Set  in  oven  and  heat.  (An  addition  of 
mushrooms,  minced  ham,  and  bits  of  cocks'  combs,  is  in  order 
if  the  vol-au-vents  are  being  made  in  any  quantity.) 

Recipes  for  vol-au-vent  are  legion,  since  their  daintiness  is  a 
challenge  to  the  ingenuity  of  the  cook.  The  filling  may  be  any 
tasty  little  ragout.  Some  of  the  best  known  are:  vol-au-vent  a 
la  financiere,  with  a  ragout  of  olives,  mushrooms,  sweetbreads, 
green  peas,  truffles,  and  cocks'  combs,  in  a  wine-flavored  sauce; 
a  la  Normande,  with  fillet  of  sole,  oysters,  mussels  and  mush- 
rooms; a  la  Macedoine,  with  carrots,  turnips,  peas,  string  beans 
and  cauliflower  in  Bechamel  sauce;  au  salmon  a  la  ravigote,  with 
salmon,  scallops,  and  white  sauce;  and  vol-au-vent  de  Brandade, 
filled  with  brandade  (see  recipe).  Other  vol-au-vents,  under 
various  names,  are  filled  with  either  feathered  or  furred  game, 
always  with  truffles  or  mushrooms;  with  ragouts  having  as  their 
base  veal  or  pork,  or  chicken  giblets;  and  the  simplest  ones  are 
made  with  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  in  sauce  or  cheese  fondu 
filling. 


FRENCH  343 

QUENELLES 

Quenelles  have  come  to  mean  any  forcemeat,  bound  with 
tgg,  and  moulded  and  rounded  between  two  teaspoons  dipped 
in  hot  water.  But  at  one  time  the  material  used  was  young  . 
rabbit,  as  the  name  indicates — connil,  a  young  coney.  They  are 
cooked  in  boiling  salted  water  and  used  as  a  garnish  for  soup 
or  entrees,  or  served  as  a  separate  dish.  The  Germans  have 
elaborated  on  the  quenelle  in  their  many  meat  dumplings,  which 
they  have  made  into  an  important  feature  of  their  cuisine.  But 
the  French  meat  balls  are  daintier,  and  a  number  are  worth 
describing. 

Quenelles  au  Foie  d'Oie,  so  nearly  German  that  it  hails 
from  Alsace,  is  made  of  mashed  fat  goose  liver  held  together 
with  egg,  and  cooked  in  an  Alsatian  Tokay  locally  known  as 
Klevner. 

Quenelles  de  Veau  Dauphinioise:  Finely  grind  veal,  work 
to  a  paste  with  a  little  butter,  yolk  of  egg  and  cream,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Poach  in  broth  flavored  with 
thyme  and  serve  in  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  meat  broth,  tomato 
and  white  wine. 

Quenelles  Lyonnaise:  Grind  a  thick  slice  of  pike  and  work 
with  beef  marrow,  some  puff  paste,  and  beaten  egg  white.  Form 
quenelles  of  cylindrical  shape  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water; 
drain  and  serve  with  sauce  Nantua  (see  recipe).  Sprinkle  with 
grated  Gruyere  cheese.  (Some  enterprising  cook  of  Lyons  no 
doubt  borrowed  this  from  Nantua.) 

Quenelles  de  Truites  a  la  Savoyarde:  Grind  trout,  mix 
with  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  cream.  Serve  with  crayfish  sauce 
and  garnish  with  crayfish  tails. 


VEGETABLES 

{Legumes) 


Lyonnais  STRING  BEANS  LYONNAISE 

{Haricots  Verts  a  la  Lyonnaise) 

i  pound  string  beans  Salt  and  pepper 

6  tablespoons  butter  i  grating  nutmeg 

2  medium-sized  onions,  sliced  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

thin  i  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Cook  beans  in  uncovered  sauce  pan,  in  slightly  salted  boil- 
ing water.  Melt  3  tablespoons  butter.  Add  onions  and  slowly 
fry  until  tender  and  golden.  Add  well-drained  beans,  additional 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Gently  toss  until  mixed  with 
onions.  Saute  5  minutes.  Add  remaining  3  tablespoons  butter 
in  small  bits,  lemon  juice  and  parsley.    Toss  again,  and  serve. 


nnais 


LYONNAISE  POTATOES 


Lyo 

{Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Lyonnaise) 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  cups  small  cooked  potatoes, 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  sliced  thin 

2  tablespoons  salt  pork  in  tiny  Salt  and  pepper 

dice  3  tablespoons  meat  gravy 

2  small  onions,  sliced  thin  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Heat  butter  and  olive  oil.  Fry  salt  pork  until  slightly  brown; 
add  onions  and  slowly  fry  until  tender  and  golden.  Add  potatoes, 
salt  and  pepper  and  part  of  the  gravy.  Let  brown  a  little,  then 
turn.     Repeat  until  potatoes  are  nicely  brown,  adding  the  rest 

344 


FRENCH  345 

of  the  gravy  during  the  frying.    Drain  ofif  any  extra  fat.    Sprinkle 

with  parsley,  gently  turn  until  parsley  is  mixed  in,  and  serve 

very  hot. 

NAPOLEON  PUFF  POTATOES 

(Pommes  de  Terre  Souffles) 

Cut  raw  potatoes  in  oval-  or  almond-shaped  pieces  about  J4 
inch  thick  and  2  inches  long;  lay  in  cold  water  l/2  hour.  Dry 
well  and  cook  in  medium  hot  deep  fat  8-10  minutes  without 
browning.  Drain  and  set  aside  to  cool  on  strainer.  Then  fry 
golden  in  smoking  hot  fat,  shaking  occasionally  and  gently  dur- 
ing the  process.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve  at  once  on  a  folded 
napkin. 

A  paper  napkin  will  serve  quite  as  well  as  a  linen  napkin, 
still  used  abroad  where  laundry  is  cheap. 

Although  these  pufled  potatoes  were  named  after  Napoleon 
he  had  nothing  whatsoever  to  do  with  them,  and  it  is  doubtful 
if  he  ever  tasted  any.  Neither  he  nor  his  Empress  Louise  were 
distinguished  as  cooks  or  epicures  and  the  dishes  they  some- 
times concocted  were  amateurish  indeed.  Napoleon's  immediate 
predecessors,  the  Louises,  were  great  trenchermen,  however,  and 
spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  the  palace  kitchen.  Louis  XIII 
killed  his  own  game,  surpassed  his  own  royal  gardeners  at  raising 
vegetables  and  cooked  them  splendidly  himself,  since  he  lived 
in  constant  dread  of  being  poisoned.  And  this  is  the  reason 
that  many  monarchs  have  excelled  in  culinary  arts.  Louis  XV 
was  not  a  gardener,  but  a  great  hunter  and  discriminating  cook. 
Louis  XVI  has  left  no  mark  as  a  cook  and  he  alone  of  them 
was  not  even  a  first-class  gourmet,  although  a  great  eater.  The 
history  of  the  French  cuisine  sparkles  with  the  names  of  royal 
cooks,  their  cooking  courtiers  and  personal  chefs,  although  most 
of  the  dishes  have  lost  their  original  significance  in  republican 
France. 


346  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

The  origin  of  these  pommes  de  terre  souffles  and  how  they 
came  to  be  nicknamed  "Napoleon"  still  makes  a  dinner  table 
story  in  France  where  all  dishes  are  "discussed,"  as  a  part  of  the 
savor  of  their  eating.  It  seems  that  a  simple  housewife  in  early 
Empire  days  set  aside  her  sizzling  panful  of  pommes  frites, 
French-fried,  to  rush  to  the  front  window  and  ogle  at  Bonaparte 
riding  by  at  the  head  of  his  troops,  in  all  the  glitter  and  fool's- 
gold  of  battle.  An  hour  later,  when  this  susceptible  housewife 
came  out  of  her  trance  and  got  back  to  the  kitchen,  her  pan  of 
potatoes  lay  cold  and  soggy  with  grease.  "Ou  la  la!"  a  catastrophe 
indeed,  for  she  expected  her  husband  home  every  minute  and 
there  was  nothing  else  to  eat  in  the  house. 

So,  instead  of  throwing  them  away,  the  thrifty  lady,  trained 
in  economic  sacrifices  made  necessary  by  keeping  up  Napoleon's 
army,  made  the  best  of  it,  putting  her  spuds  on  the  fire  again. 
But  behold!  they  puffed  up  miraculously,  became  crisp  shells 
full  of  air,  bursting  fat  and  round  as  toy  balloons,  tiny  sausages, 
or  emperors.  So  the  twice-fried  potato  puffs  came  into  being 
by  accident  and  were  named  after  the  Napoleon  story  which  ran 
from  tongue  to  tongue  all  over  France. 

Normandy 

POTATO  SOUFFLE  NORMANDY 

{Souffle  de  Pommes  a  la  Normande) 

4  cups  mashed  potatoes  i  egg 

Salt  and  pepper  i  teaspoon  caramel 

2  tablespoons  butter,  melted  4  tablespoons    Calvados, 

%  cup  apple  marmalade  or  aged  applejack 

1  cup  thick  cream,  whipped 

Choose  old  potatoes  which  will  be  light  and  fluffy.  When 
smoothly  mashed  add  salt  and  pepper,  butter,  and  marmalade 
which  has  been  warmed  over  steam;  mash  together  thoroughly. 
Cool  potatoes  somewhat;  beat  in  cream,  egg  yolk  and  caramel; 


T 

FRENCH  347 

fold  in  egg  white  stiffly  beaten.  Heap  in  a  rough  pile  on  a 
fireproof  dish,  and  place  in  moderate  oven  (3500  F.)  to  heat  and 
set  egg,  but  do  not  brown.  Pour  the  applejack  over  and  flare. 
It  makes  a  pretty  ceremony  to  burn  the  applejack  at  the  table. 
(Poor  or  new  applejack  will  not  give  the  proper  results.  And, 
of  course,  Calvados  or  Normandy  apple  brandy  is  best.)  Serve 
with  game,  duck,  or  pork. 

MASHED  POTATOES  AND  CHESTNUTS 

(Puree  de  Pommes  et  Matrons) 

An  equal  weight  of  potatoes  and  chestnuts.  Pare  the  pota- 
toes; shell,  blanch  and  peel  chestnuts.  Put  the  potatoes  and 
chestnuts  in  boiling  water  in  2  separate  pans.  Cook  until  tender. 
Run  together  through  potato  ricer,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  1  cup  cream 
and  beat  until  very  light.    Heat  over  steam  and  serve. 

Nwernais         LETTUCE  A  LA  NIVERNAISE 

(Laitues  a  la  Nivernaise) 

Small  heads  young  lettuce      Salt  and  pepper 
Butter  Young  carrots 

Beef  broth  1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar 

Wilt  the  lettuce  in  melted  butter.  Add  beef  broth  to  half 
cover,  season,  cover  and  simmer.  Turn  after  8  minutes.  Un- 
cover, simmer  and  baste.  Parboil  carrots  in  salted  water;  drain; 
brown  in  butter  with  the  sugar;  add  a  little  broth  and  simmer, 
covered,  until  tender.  Uncover  and  reduce  liquid  to  a  glaze. 
Arrange  lettuce  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  liquid  over.  Garnish  with 
the  glazed  carrots. 


348  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Bordelais  MUSHROOMS  BORDELAISE 

(Cepes  a  la  Bordelaise) 

Yi  pound  mushrooms         2  shallots,  minced  fine 
Ys  pound  butter  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Salt  and  pepper  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Cut  off  all  but  ]/2  inch  of  the  mushroom  stems.  Let  lie  for 
a  few  minutes  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  first  right  side  up,  then 
upside  down.  Dry  on  a  linen  towel.  Cut  in  thin  slices  through 
the  stem.  Heat  butter  to  near  smoking.  Add  part  of  the  mush- 
room slices  and  toss  and  turn  in  the  butter.  Add  the  rest,  season, 
fry  for  a  moment,  add  shallots,  and  let  fry  2  minutes.  Cover 
closely,  reduce  heat  and  smother  2-4  minutes.  Add  lemon  juice, 
and  parsley,  and  serve  at  once  in  a  hot  dish. 

HOP  SPROUTS 
(Jets  de  Houblons) 

Young  hop  sprouts,  in  the  spring,  are  succulent  and  edible, 
resembling  asparagus.  They  are  imported  to  America  in  cans, 
although  there  is  no  reason  why  hop  sprouts  should  not  be  a 
garden  crop  in  the  United  States. 

They  should  be  heated  in  their  own  liquid  and  served  with 
hot  butter,  or  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

STUFFED  SQUASH  BLOSSOMS 

(Fleurs  de  Courge  Farcie) 

The  male,  or  false,  blossoms  which  close  and  fall  from 
squash  and  pumpkin  vines  are  gathered  up  and  sold  by  the 
bushel  in  French  markets;  to  be  prepared  thus: 

Gently  open  flowers  sufficiently  to  insert  a  stuffing  of  chicken 
or  veal  forcemeat  (or  simply  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  mixed 
with  butter  and  bread  crumbs).  Lay  stuffed  flowers  side  by  side 
in  a  baking  tin,  pouring  into  pan  a  little  veal  or  chicken  broth 


FRENCH  349 

(or  just  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  teaspoon  of  beef 
extract);  sprinkle  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  simmer. 

The  blossoms  retain  their  vivid  golden  color  and  make  a 
decorative  garnishing  for  a  meat  or  vegetable  dish.  They  beau- 
tifully frame  a  platter  of  heaped  fresh  green  peas,  and  delight 
the  heart  of  the  amateur  gardener,  who  will  cease  to  bemoan 
the  fact  that  every  bloom  on  the  vine  is  not  a  promise  of  a 
Halloween  pumpkin. 

Provence  VEGETABLE  RAGOUT 

(Melange  de  Legumes) 

3  young  carrots,  diced  i  large  tomato,  peeled 

2  cups  meat  broth  i  large  onion,  sliced 

6  scallions  i  garlic  clove,  minced 

i  small  zucchini  (or  tgg  plant)  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  i  green  pepper,  sliced 

Drop  carrots  into  boiling  broth,  add  scallions  with  portion 
of  green  left  on.  Cut  zucchini  (Italian  green  squash  resembling 
cucumber)  into  Y2  inch  slices,  and  add.  Season.  Set  tomato  in 
center  of  stewing  vegetables  whole.  Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil 
until  golden,  add  %  cup  cold  water  and  simmer.  Add  green 
pepper  to  vegetables.  Pour  over  them  the  liquid  from  onion 
and  garlic  and  discard  these.  Simmer  for  a  moment.  Serve  on 
a  hot  platter.    Vegetables  except  tomato  should  be  unbroken. 

Provence  PANISSES 

Panisses  f rites,  (fried),  are  a  boon  to  the  hurried  housewife 
in  Provence,  and  housewives  are  hurried  on  occasion,  even  in 
that  easy-going  land  of  poetry  where  it  is  nothing  to  bestow  6 
hours  of  loving  care  on  a  dish  of  braised  meat;  or  keep  the  fire 
going  all  night  in  order  to  produce  that  rival  to  tripes  a  la  mode 
de  Caen,  the  pieds  et  paquets  a  la  Marseilles.    This  consists  of 


350  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

mutton  tripe  used  as  wrappers  for  a  delectable  stuffing,  and 
cooked  in  white  wine  and  stock  with  sheeps'  trotters,  beef  shin, 
veal,  and  vegetables  in  a  covered  earthen  crock  sealed  air-tight 
with  flour  paste. 

Panisses  can  be  bought,  ready  to  fry,  usually  at  the  cheese 
shop,  in  many  Provencal  towns,  and  are  handy  when  unexpected 
guests  arrive.  They  measure  about  3  inches,  square  or  round, 
are  l/2  inch  thick,  and  yellow.  The  best  are  made  of  a  thick 
puree  of  chick  peas  cooked  in  stock  further  thickened  with 
flour,  cooled,  and  then  cut  in  slices  and  formed  between  the 
hands.  The  panisses  are  dredged  with  flour  and  fried  in  butter. 
An  American  substitute  may  be  made  by  pressing  canned  chick 
peas  through  a  sieve  with  1  tablespoon  flour,  with  enough  of 
the  chick  pea  liquor  to  permit  the  mixture  being  heated  until 
the  flour  is  cooked. 

A  proper  panisse,  however,  according  to  old  Provencal  cooks, 
should  be  stirred  only  with  a  paddle  made  of  laurel  wood,  for 
both  luck  and  flavor. 

Provence  AIQU 

8  garlic  cloves  i}4  cups  olive  oil 

1  egg  yolk  Juice  l/2  lemon 

Ya  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  tepid  water 

Grind  garlic  cloves  to  a  paste;  add  egg  yolk  and  blend;  add 
salt  and  a  few  drops  of  oil  and  blend,  adding  oil  until  4  table- 
spoons have  been  used.  Then  add  lemon  juice  a  little  at  a  time 
and  beat;  add  water  and  continue  beating.  Then  slowly  add 
the  rest  of  the  oil,  proceeding  as  with  mayonnaise. 

For  the  garlic-lover  this  is  a  delicious  sauce,  and  the  "Aioli 
Garni"  or  "grand  aioli"  with  which  it  is  sometimes  served  is  a 
complete  and  beautiful  repast.  Almost  anything  in  the  kitchen 
may  appear  on  a  platter  of  "grand   aioli" — hard-boiled   eggs, 


FRENCH  351 

baked  potatoes,  carrots,  onions  chopped  with  fennel,  artichokes, 
snails,  codfish  or  other  fish,  or  shell  fish — always  appetizingly 
arranged,  with  the  sauce  heaped  in  the  center  or  served  in  a 
boat. 

The  aioli  also  figures  in  la  bourride,  slices  of  fish  stewed 
and  highly  seasoned  with  herbs  after  the  manner  of  aigo  sau, 
the  broth  being  thickened  with  a  generous  quantity  of  aioli  and 
then  poured  over  toast,  and  the  fish  being  served  separately. 

lle-de-France  pARISIAN  SALAD 

{Salad e  Parisienne) 

This  is  the  familiar  salad  served  with  most  table  d'hotes, 
whether  the  prix  fixe  be  6  francs  or  60.  It  is  basically  a  potato 
salad,  enriched  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  spiced  with  onion  and 
made  meaty  with  snips  of  veal,  tongue  or  beef  muzzle,  well 
peppered  and  dressed  with  oil  and  wine  vinegar.  In  season  let- 
tuce is  added. 


DESSERTS 

{Desserts) 


CUSTARDS 
(Darioles) 

ALMOND  DARIOLES 

%  cup  blanched  almonds        i  teaspoon  orange  flower  water 
%  cup  granulated  sugar         2  cups  milk 
%  cup  cake  flour,  sifted  Puff  paste 

2  eggs  Butter 

Lemon  sugar 

Pound  almonds  to  a  paste  with  1  tablespoon  of  the  sugar 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Combine  sugar,  flour,  eggs,  orange 
water  and  almond  paste  in  a  bowl.  Add  milk  and  stir  thor- 
oughly. Line  six  custard  cups  with  thinly  rolled  puff  paste,  put 
a  bit  of  butter  in  each  and  fill  with  mixture.  Place  cups  on  a 
baking  sheet  and  bake  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°F.).  5  minutes  before  removing  them,  sprinkle  tops  with 
lemon  sugar.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  If  hot  serve  with  vanilla  sauce 
and  omit  sugar  glazing. 

Lemon  Sugar:  Rub  4  or  5  sugar  cubes  over  a  lemon  until 
they  are  well  colored;  crush,  and  use. 

ORANGE   DARIOLES 

Prepare  as  for  almond  darioles,  flavor  with  rind  and  juice 
of  1  orange  and  serve  with  orange  sauce. 


352 


FRENCH  353 

CUP  CUSTARDS 
{Petit s  Pots  de  Creme) 

Being  a  tasty  as  well  as  an  economical  dessert  these  cup 
custards  cooked  and  served  in  little  pots  specially  made  for  them 
are  very  popular  all  over  France. 

VANILLA  CUSTARD 

{Creme  a  la  Vanille) 

i  pint  milk  %  vanilla  bean 

%  cup  granulated  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

1  egg  white 

Put  milk,  sugar,  and  vanilla  bean  in  saucepan  and  bring  to 

a  boil;  remove  from  fire  and  cool.    Beat  egg  yolks  and  white 

together  and  combine  with  cooled  milk  and  strain  into  cups. 

This  amount  will  fill  4  pots  de  creme.    Place  cups  in  a  pan  of 

hot  water,  reaching  l/2  their  height;  cover,  place  live  embers  on 

cover  and  let  custards  poach  about  15  minutes  on  back  of  stove; 

or  place  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  and  bake  the  same  as  our 

custards. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

{Crime  au  Caramel) 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  quart  milk 

6  eggs  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  egg  yolks  Grated  yellow  rind  of  Y2  lemon 

Melt  powdered  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire  until 
it  turns  a  rich  yellow.  Remove,  turn  into  a  charlotte  mold,  and 
let  cool.  Beat  eggs  and  egg  yolks  together  until  creamy.  Beat 
in  milk,  sugar,  and  grated  lemon,  and  let  stand  10  minutes. 
Then  butter  sides  of  mold  and  strain  custard  into  it.  Place  mold 
on  a  tripod  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  reaching  to  l/2  its  height. 
Bring  water  to  a  boil  and  set  back  on  cool  part  of  stove  to 
simmer,  without  boiling.    Cover  kettle  and  place  hot  cinders  on 


354  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

the  cover.     The  custard  poaches  in  this  manner  for  about  45 
minutes.    Serve  cold. 

BACCHANALIAN  CREAM 

(Crime  Bachique) 

1  pint  fine  white  wine  Small  piece  of  cinnamon  bark 

Yi  cup  granulated  sugar  6  egg  yolks 

Put  wine,  sugar,  and  cinnamon  into  a  saucepan,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  remove  from  fire.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  light-colored. 
Whip  the  wine  into  them  a  very  little  at  a  time.  Strain  into  cups 
and  poach  on  top  of  stove  the  same  as  for  creme  a  la  vanille. 

ORANGE  FLOWER  CREAM 

(Creme  a  la  Fleur  d' Or  anger) 

1  pint  milk  1  ladle  full  of  orange  blossoms 

3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

1  egg  white 

Bring  milk  and  sugar  to  boil  over  fire;  remove,  add  blossoms 
and  cool.  Beat  egg  yolks  and  egg  white  together  and  combine 
with  cooled  milk.    Strain  into  custard  cups  and  bake  or  poach. 

RUM  CREAM 

(Mousse  au  Rhum) 

1  pint  heavy  cream  l/2  cup  powdered  sugar 

Vz  cup  rum 

Put  cream  in  a  bowl  and  place  bowl  in  a  pan  of  chopped 
ice.  Beat  cream  slowly  at  first,  then  increase  in  swiftness  until 
it  is  a  firm  froth.  Add  sugar,  beating  constantly.  Add  rum 
slowly,  and  beat  5  minutes  steadily.  Put  in  china  bowl  and  set 
on  ice  in  refrigerator.  When  wanted  to  serve  drop  carefully 
by  spoonfuls  on  to  a  cold  service  plate,  piling  cream  in  pyramid 
form.    Serve  immediately. 


FRENCH  355 

KIRSCH  CREAM 

{Mousse  au  Kirsch) 
Proceed  as  for  mousse  au  rhum,  substituting  kirsch  for  rum. 
In  the  same   manner   are  prepared   Maraschino,   Cognac   and 
Curacao  mousses,  substituting  the  various  liqueurs  for  rum. 

VANILLA  SOUFFLE 
(Souffle  a  la  Vanille) 
2V2  tablespoons  butter  6  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 

2x/i  tablespoons  flour  4  egg  yolks 

1  cup  milk  5  egg  whites 

14  vanilla  bean  Powdered  sugar 

Bring  to  a  boil  with  vanilla  bean,  strain,  partly  cool.  Melt 
butter  in  saucepan,  stir  in  flour,  gradually  add  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Beat  until  smooth  and  thick,  and  retire  to  cool  part  of 
stove;  beat  in  sugar  and  egg  yolks  until  mixture  is  a  very  thick 
smooth  cream.  Remove,  cool,  and  fold  in  egg  whites,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  %  full  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (3750  F.).  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  immediately.  The  French  prefer 
their  souffles  tender  and  creamy  and  consider  20  minutes  suf- 
ficient time  for  baking. 

SOUFFLE  PRALINE 

Grill  l/2  cup  blanched  almonds;  caramel  l/2  cup  sugar;  add 
almonds  and  pour  on  lightly  oiled  dish  to  cool.  When  cold, 
pound  to  a  praline  powder  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Prepare  a 
souffle  as  for  vanilla  souffle  and  add  praline  powder  before  egg 
whites  are  folded  in. 

SOUFFLE  A  L'ORANGE 

Prepare  souffle  as  for  vanilla  souffle  and  beat  in  with  egg 
yolks  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  1  orange  chopped  fine  with  J4  cup 
powdered  sugar. 


356  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

SOUFFLE  AU  CHOCOLAT 

Melt  il/z  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  over  hot  water, 
add  2  tablespoons  boiling  water  and  stir  until  smooth.  Make 
a  souffle  the  same  as  for  vanilla  souffle,  beating  in  chocolate  with 
egg  yolks  and  sugar. 

Normandy 

APPLE  MARMALADE  SOUFFLE 

(Souffle  de  Pommes  a  la  Normande) 

l/2  cup  whipped  cream  i  teaspoon  caramel 

J4  cup  apple  marmalade         *4  cup  calvados   (or  applejack) 

Mix  whipped  cream,  marmalade,  and  caramel.  Pile  on  a 
dish,  pour  applejack  over  and  light.  When  flame  dies  down, 
add  to  a  souffle  prepared  as  for  vanilla  souffle. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE 

(Mousse  de  Chocolat) 

i  pound  unsweetened  chocolate        Granulated  sugar,  finely  sifted, 

Thin  sugar  syrup  and  vanilla 

i  pint  thick  cream,  whipped  (or   sucre   vanille) 

Shave  or  grate  chocolate,  melt  over  hot  water,  adding  a  little 
thin  sugar  syrup  and  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well 
incorporated.  Pass  through  a  fine  sieve;  cool.  Beat  in  the 
whipped  cream,  a  little  at  a  time.  Sweeten  and  flavor  with 
vanilla  to  taste.  (The  French  cook  is  sparing  with  sugar.) 
Heap  mixture  to  overflowing  in  a  mousse  mold,  or  a  pudding 
mold  with  tight  fitting  cover.  Lay  paraffin  paper  over  and 
fasten  cover  securely — it  should  be  further  secured  against  seep- 
age of  salt  from  freezing  mixture,  by  sealing  with  pastry  dough, 
or  lard,  and  wrapping  a  wide  tape  dipped  in  melted  fat  around 
the  rim,  sealing  the  juncture  of  cover  and  mold.  Bury  in  ice 
and  salt  with  the  top  of  the  mold  well  above  the  outlet  of  ice 
container,  so  salt  water  cannot  touch  top  of  mold  during  freez- 


FRENCH  357 

ing.    Freeze  3  ^-4  hours,  renewing  ice  and  salt  and  discarding 
salt  water  when  necessary. 

(Sucre  Vanille  is  made  thus:  Finely  sift  granulated  sugar. 
Slit  a  vanilla  bean  and  cut  in  pieces.  Pour  sugar  into  a  mason 
jar,  scattering  in  the  pieces  of  vanilla  bean.  Close  air  tight  and 
leave  several  days  before  opening.  Two  or  three  tablespoons  of 
Sucre  Vanille  imparts  flavor  more  delicious  than  l/2  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  extract.) 

At  Prunier's,  in  Paris,  the  classic  mousse  de  chocolat  is  con- 
sidered a  fit  dessert  to  follow  one  of  their  magnificently  cooked 
fish  and  sea  food  dinners.  It  is  served  in  a  very  fine,  very  tall 
fluted  glass,  and  eaten  slowly  with  a  long  spoon. 

FROZEN  CREAM  WITH  PISTACHIOS 

{Creme  Glacee,  aux  Pistaches) 

%  cup  blanched  pistachios  1  pint  heavy  cream 

*4  cup  sugar  syrup  !/2  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  maraschino  *4  teaspoon  vanilla 

Divide  each  pistachio  nut  in'o  halves,  put  in  small  bowl 
and  cover  with  syrup  and  maraschino.  Mix  well,  cover,  and 
let  stand  1  hour.  Beat  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  sugar  and 
vanilla  gradually,  and  continue  beating  several  minutes  after  in- 
corporated. Have  a  mold  prepared  and  chilled  in  a  tub  of 
chopped  ice  and  salt.  Put  layers  of  cream  into  mold  by  small 
teaspoonf uls ;  have  liquid  drained  from  nuts  and  sprinkle  them 
over  each  layer.    Cover,  seal,  and  freeze  1%  hours. 

COFFEE  PARFAIT 

(Parfait  au  Cafe) 

1 54  CUPS  powdered  sugar        4  ounces  freshly  roasted  coffee 
6  egg  yolks  beans  (not  ground) 

1  quart  'rich  cream  1  cup  roasted  almonds,  ground 

fine 


358  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Put  sugar,  egg  yolks,  and  i  pint  of  cream  into  a  basin,  stir 
2  or  3  minutes  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  creamy,  then  cook 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  coats  spoon. 
It  must  not  boil.  Remove,  and  immediately  add  coffee,  stirring 
in  well.  Place  a  cloth  over  basin,  cover,  and  let  stand  i  hour  to 
infuse.  Whip  remainder  of  cream  and  put  in  refrigerator  until 
wanted.  Have  freezer  ready  and  strain  infused  mixture  into 
it.  Cover,  and  turn  handle  briskly  in  opposite  directions  for  5 
minutes;  then  remove  cover  and  scrape  down  sides.  Repeat  this 
process  twice  and  cream  will  be  frozen.  Drop  in  whipped  cream, 
a  litde  at  a  time,  mixing  it  in  carefully.  Place  in  a  3-pint  mold 
and  leave  1  hour  buried  in  salt  and  ice.  Unmold,  roll  in  almond 
dust  and  arrange  on  serving  plate. 

Savoy  RASPBERRIES  ROMANOFF 

(Framboises  Romanoff) 

1  pint  raspberries  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

1V2  cups  heavy  cream  !4  cup  kirsch 

Use  only  red-ripe  raspberries  of  fine  quality.  Beat  cream  to 
stiff  froth,  gradually  adding  sugar  and  kirsch.  Mix  lightly  with 
berries,  chill,  and  serve  in  tall  thin  glasses. 

PEACHES  ROYAL 

(Peches  a  la  Royale) 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  heavy  cream 

1  cup  water  1  cup  wild  strawberries 

V2  dozen  fine  ripe  peaches  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  brandy 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes;  pare,  cut  in  halves,  and 
cook  peaches  a  few  minutes  in  syrup.  Remove,  arrange  in  a 
glass  dish  and  chill  in  refrigerator.  Have  cream  and  berries 
chilled.    When  ready  to  serve  mash  berries  fine;  whip  cream  to 


FRENCH 


359 


a  stiff  froth  while  gradually  adding  powdered  sugar  and  brandy; 
combine  lightly  with  berries  and  put  by  spoonfuls  over  peaches. 

PEACH  COMPOTE 

{Compote  de  Peches  au  Marasquin) 

Yi  dozen  fine  ripe  peaches  i%  teaspoons  vanilla 

Powdered  sugar  i  cup  maraschino 

Peel  peaches,  cut  in  eighths,  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  glass 
compote  dish.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  each  layer  with 
a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Pour  maraschino  over  all  and  set  in  the 
refrigerator  %  of  an  hour  before  serving. 

COMPOTE  OF  PEARS 
{Compote  de  Poires) 

8  ripe  medium-sized  pears  Juice  i  lemon 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  i  cup  wine 

i  cup  water 

Peel  pears,  do  not  remove  stems  and  drop  in  cold  water. 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  a  thick  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir 

until  sugar  melts;  then  drain  pears  and  drop  into  it.    Add  lemon 

juice,  cover  kettle  and  cook  gently  until  pears  are  done.    Take 

up  with  skimmer  and  place  upright  in  a  compote  dish.    Add 

wine  to  juice  in  kettle  and  cook  until  it  thickens;  then  pour 

over  pears.     A  small  stick  of  cinnamon  may  replace  lemon  if 

preferred. 

v  APPLES  IN  BUTTER 

(Pommes  au  Beurre) 

5  tart  apples  Grated  rind  of  %  lemon 

i  cup  granulated  sugar  Powdered  sugar 

%  cup  water  2  tablespoons  apricot  jam 

Juice  of  2  lemons  2  tablespoons  Madeira 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  apples;  place  in  a  buttered  basin.  Mix 
sugar  and  water  and  let  cook  5  minutes  over  fire  to  a  syrup. 


360  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Pour  l/2  of  syrup  over  apples.    Add  lemon  juice,  and  rind,  and 

sprinkle  heavily  with  powdered  sugar.     Cover  and  let  apples 

simmer  gently  until  tender,  but  not  broken.    Remove  to  serving 

plate;  add  apricot  and  Madeira  to  syrup  in  basin  and  pour  over 

apples. 
™  BRANDIED  CHERRIES 

(Cerises  a  l'Eau-de-Vie) 

Prepare  cherries  by  clipping  part  of  stem  and  fill  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle  with  them.  Pour  over  cherries  as  much  fine 
brandy  as  the  bottle  will  contain.  Let  stand  3  weeks,  then  add 
1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  brandied  cherries.  Stir  well, 
cover,  and  let  stand  2  months  before  using.  Peaches,  pears  and 
marrons  are  brandied  in  the  same  manner.  Prunes  require  no 
sugar  and  are  ready  to  use  in  15  days. 

APPLES  IN  FLAMES 
(Pommes  Flammantes) 

8  small  apples  Few  gratings  of  lemon  peel 

1  cup  sugar  or  small  stick  cinnamon 

1  cup  water  l/2  cup  rum 

Powdered  sugar 

Pare  and  core  apples.  Cook  sugar,  water  and  desired  flavor- 
ing 7  minutes,  strain  and  return  to  pan.  Add  apples,  cooking 
slowly  while  basting  frequently  with  syrup.  When  tender  re- 
move to  a  fire-proof  service  dish.  Leave  syrup  on  fire  to  thicken 
and  pour  over  apples.  Powder  with  sugar,  pour  over  rum  and 
light.    Apples  must  be  very  hot  or  the  rum  will  not  burn. 

PEACHES  WITH  RICE 
(Peches  a  la  Conde) 

8  ripe  peaches  54  teaspoon  salt 

Sugar  syrup  3  pints  milk 

1  pint  rice  %  cup  butter 


FRENCH  361 

%  cup  granulated  sugar  2  eggs 

2  or  3  strips  of  lemon  rind  Fresh  bread  crumbs 

4  egg  yolks  Powdered  sugar 

54  cup  maraschino 

Wipe  peaches,  cut  in  two,  blanch  in  boiling  syrup,  remove 
skins  and  drain  on  sieve.  Wash  rice  and  put  in  saucepan  with 
salt  and  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  butter,  sugar,  and  lemon 
peel.  Cover,  and  cook  over  boiling  water  30  minutes.  Remove 
peel  and  stir  in  egg  yolks.  Make  a  dozen  small  peach-shaped 
croquettes  of  part  of  the  mixture;  dip  in  beaten  eggs;  roll  in 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 
Place  remainder  of  rice  on  a  serving  plate,  pile  peaches  in  dome- 
shape  over  it;  add  maraschino  to  peach  syrup,  reduce  to  a  thick 
syrup  and  pour  over  peaches.  Surround  with  croquettes  and 
serve  hot. 

GOOSEBERRY  PRESERVE,  OR  BAR  LE  DUC 

(Confitures  de  Groseilles  de  Bar) 

Remove  stems  from  any  desired  amount  of  gooseberries,  and 
with  a  sharp-pointed  goose  quill  remove  the  seeds  from  each 
berry,  being  careful  not  to  tear  the  skin.  When  prepared,  weigh 
fruit  and  for  each  pound  take  il/2  pounds  sugar.  Mix  1  cup 
water  with  each  pound  of  sugar  and  cook  in  a  copper  or  porce- 
lain-lined kettle  until  syrup  will  form  a  firm  ball  in  cold  water. 
Remove  any  scum  that  arises  and  put  in  gooseberries.  Let  them 
boil  up  once  or  twice  and  pour  into  small  glasses.  In  France 
special  pots  are  manufactured  for  these  preserves.  White  cur- 
rants are  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

NOUGATS  A  LA  CHANTILLY 

%  pound  filberts  %  cup  granulated  sugar 

Sweetened  whipped  cream 


362  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Scald  nuts,  remove  skins,  and  split  in  quarters.  Leave  on 
baking  sheet  in  oven  with  door  open  to  dry.  Place  sugar  in  a 
heavy  saucepan  over  slow  fire  and  stir  until  it  melts  and  begins 
to  form  bubbles;  throw  in  hot  nuts  at  once  and  mix  carefully. 
Small  molds  are  oiled  and  pardy  filled  with  this  nougat;  a  small 
hard  wood  stick  about  l/2  inch  wide  being  used  to  press  the 
nougat  up  the  sides  of  the  mold.  The  nougat  must  be  kept 
warm  while  being  molded  (but  not  on  the  stove).  When  served, 
turn  out  of  molds,  and  fill  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored  to  taste. 

FRENCH  FANCY  BREAD 
{Brioche) 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in         3  cups  sifted  flour 
l/2  cup  lukewarm  milk  1  cup  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 

4  *Sgs 

Mix  dissolved  yeast  with  l/2  cup  of  flour  and  salt  to  a  light 
batter.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
Cream  butter  in  mixing  bowl,  add  sugar  gradually.  Beat  in  eggs, 
1  at  a  time,  and  beat  2  minutes  after  each  addition.  When  yeast 
is  light  and  spongy  add  to  batter,  mix  in  flour,  and  knead  at 
least  5  minutes  to  a  smooth  dough.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  let 
rise  in  a  warm  place  3  hours.  When  doubled  in  bulk  turn  out 
onto  floured  board,  knead  it  well,  then  return  to  bowl,  cover, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  At  the  end  of  a  half  hour  turn  out  dough 
on  floured  board  again.  Lay  aside  %  of  it,  and  shape  remainder 
into  a  round  loaf.  Butter  a  deep  round  cake  pan,  put  buttered 
paper  in  bottom  and  lay  in  loaf.  Roll  reserved  piece  into  a 
pear-shape,  make  an  incision  in  center  of  loaf  and  insert  the 
small  end.  This  forms  the  distinctive  and  decorative  shape  of 
the  brioche.  Brush  top  with  beaten  egg  yolk.  Place  cake  pan 
on  a  baking  sheet  and  put  into  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.). 


FRENCH  363 

As  soon  as  brioche  begins  to  rise  (about  15  minutes)  cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  1  hour  longer.  Test  with  broom  straw; 
if  it  comes  out  clean  the  brioche  is  done. 

SMALL  BRIOCHES 

Prepare  dough  as  above,  set  aside  3  ounces  of  the  dough  and 
cut  remainder  into  12  even  pieces;  form  these  with  the  hand 
into  small  balls  and  put  in  a  baking  pan.  Divide  reserved  dough 
into  12  parts  and  roll  into  pear  shapes.  With  a  spoon  make  a 
cavity  in  each  ball  and  insert  small  ends  of  pear  shapes.  Let 
rise  15  minutes,  glaze  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  12  to  15 
minutes  in  hot  oven  (450°  F.).    These  are  eaten  with  coffee. 

BRIOCHE  A  LA  CONDE 

Yi  cup  sweet  white  wine  2  tablespoons  butter 

l/i  pound  mixed  candied  fruits  1  freshly  baked  brioche  cake 

1  cup  apricot  jam  Y2  cup  water 

Pour  wine  over  candied  fruit  and  steep  1  hour.  Heat  jam 
with  butter  until  melted.  Cut  brioche  cross-wise  through  center, 
spread  lower  half  with  jam  and  replace  top.  Add  water  to  fruit, 
heat  to  boiling  and  pour  over  brioche. 

Savoie  SAVOY  SPONGE  CAKE 

(he  Biscuit  de  Savoie) 

4  Ggg  yolks  Grated  rind  of  Yi  lemon 

%   cup  granulated  sugar,  sifted      4  egg  whites 
Yz  cup  cake  flour,  sifted 

Beat  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  grated  rind  together,  until  light 
and  creamy.  Sift  in  flour  and  mix  carefully.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff  and  fold  in  gently.  Butter  a  round  baking  tin,  lightly 
powder  with  sugar,   warm   slightly  and  half  fill  with  batter. 


364  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Bake  about  50  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (3500  F.).    When 
done,  place  on  cake  cooler  before  removing  from  the  tin. 

Lemon  peel,  in  French,  is  called  "zest"  and  it  is  cut  much 
thinner  there,  so  that  none  of  the  bitter  white  pulp  adheres  to 
detract  from  the  pungent  essence  of  the  oily  yellow  skin. 

SPICE  CAKE 
{Pain  d'Epices) 

il/2  cups  butter  l/2  teaspoon  allspice 

4  cups  pulverized  sugar  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

9  egg  yolks,  well  beaten  l/2  teaspoon  mace 

3%  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  teaspoon  (baking)  soda 

9  Ggg  whites,  beaten  stiff  il/2  cups  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  !4  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks,  well  beaten;  beat 
all  until  light  and  creamy.  Add  flour  gradually,  alternating  with 
Y2  of  beaten  egg  whites.  Add  spices,  then  gradually  beat  in 
remainder  of  flour  and  egg  whites.  Dissolve  soda  in  1  tablespoon 
of  boiling  water,  mix  this  with  the  sour  cream  and  stir  into  cake 
mixture.  Turn  into  a  deep  buttered  cake  tin  and  bake  1  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°F.). 

SMALL  CAKES 

(Quatre-quarts) 

4  eggs  Powdered  sugar 

Butter  Flour 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Weigh  eggs  and  take  equal  amounts  of  weight  in  butter, 
powdered  sugar,  and  flour.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  grated  rind  and  egg  yolks  and  beat  until  very  light;  continue 
beating  and  add  flour.  Have  the  egg  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  fold  in  lightly.  Turn  into  small  buttered  tins  and 
bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven  (35o°F.). 


FRENCH  365 

Baked  in  shell-shaped  molds  these  are  the  popular  little 
French  cakes  that  please  the  tourist's  palate. 

FRUIT  CAKE 
(Baba) 

1  yeast  cake  l/i  cup  cream 
4  tablespoons  lukewarm  water  l/2  cup  butter 

2  cups  sifted  flour  4  tablespoons  Madeira 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs  4  tablespoons  raisins 

4  tablespoons  currants 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water  and  stir  in  %  cup  of  flour;  beat  to 
a  smooth  batter,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  (about  30  minutes).  Sift  remainder  of  flour  into  a  bowl, 
add  sugar,  eggs,  cream,  butter,  wine  and  salt,  and  beat  5  min- 
utes. When  yeast  batter  has  doubled  in  bulk  combine  the  two 
mixtures  and  beat  another  5  minutes.  Cover,  and  let  rise  until 
mixture  has  doubled  in  bulk,  about  1  hour,  then  work  in  fruit. 
Butter  a  3-pint  mold,  fill  %  full  with  mixture  and  let  rise  20 
minutes.    Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven  (350°F.). 

The  cake  may  be  iced  or  dressed  with  the  following: 

2  cups  water  !/4  cup  sherry 

1  cup  sugar  lA  cup  curac^o 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice         1   cup  assorted  candied  fruit 

Mix  water,  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and  boil  3  minutes;  remove 
from  fire  and  add  sherry  and  curacao.  Cut  baba  in  halves  cross- 
wise and  remove  top  piece  to  a  flat  dish  with  cut  side  up.  Fill 
this  evenly  with  the  syrup,  let  stand  2  or  3  minutes,  then  re- 
place over  lower  half.  Arrange  on  service  plate  and  decorate 
top  with  candied  fruit. 

SAVARIN 

This  cake,  named  for  Brillat-Savarin,  is  made  like  the  baba 
without  the  addition  of  fruits   and  soaked  in  a   sugar  syrup 


366  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

flavored  with  kirsch,  or  any  desired  flavor.     It  is  usually  gar- 
nished with  whipped  cream  or  a  marmalade  of  fruits. 

LITTLE  CAKES  OF  LISIEUX 

(Gateaux  de  Lisieux) 

Y2  cup  butter  l/2  cup  almonds,  ground 

i%  cups  cake  flour  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

i  egg  white  i  egg  yolk 

i  teaspoon  vanilla  Granulated  sugar 

Work  butter  into  flour  until  mixture  reaches  the  consistency 
of  coarse  meal.  Add  egg  white,  vanilla,  almonds  and  sugar. 
Knead  to  a  smooth  round  piece  of  dough.  Wrap  in  paraffin 
paper  and  set  in  refrigerator  over  night.  In  the  morning  roll 
out  dough  y2  inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds,  brush  with  beaten  egg 
yolk  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  10  to  15  minutes  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.). 

LADY  FINGERS 

(Biscuits  a  la  Cuillere) 

5  eggs  1  cup  cake  flour 

1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

Put  egg  yolks,  grated  rind  and  sugar  into  a  bowl  and  beat 
thoroughly  for  5  minutes.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not 
dry.  Add  flour,  sifted  3  times  and  mix  gently;  then  add  egg 
whites.  Beat  1  minute  and  put  in  a  pastry  bag.  Squeeze  out  in 
strips  4  inches  long  and  1  inch  wide  on  a  baking  sheet  covered 
with  heavy  paper.  Dredge  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  15 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.).  Remove  paper  when 
cool. 

These  lady  fingers  are  a  specially  appropriate  accompani- 
ment for  dessert  wines,  haut  sauternes  or  champagne. 


FRENCH  367 

DAINTY  MOUTHFULS 

(Bouchees  de  Dames) 

Put  in  to  pastry  bag  with  tube  l/2  preparation  for  lady 
fingers.  Butter  and  flour  a  baking  sheet,  and  squeeze  out  about 
50  small  macaroon  shapes.  Dtkt  with  powdered  sugar  and 
bake  12  minutes  in  moderately  hot  oven  (3750  F.).  Let  cool; 
remove  from  pan  and  lay  upside  down  on  table.  Make  a  half- 
inch  cavity  in  center  of  each  with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  with 
any  preferred  cream  filling.  Put  together  in  pairs  to  enclose 
cream  and  spread  with  following: 

Chocolate  Glaze:  Put  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water 
and  8  ounces  grated  chocolate  in  saucepan  over  fire,  stir  to  a 
smooth  syrup  and  cook  until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  at  tip  of 
spoon.    Remove  and  use. 

GATEAU  DE  MADELEINE 

Prepare  batter  as  for  Quatre-quarts,  with  the  exception  of 
the  egg  whites,  which  should  be  slightly  beaten.  Put  in  small 
individual  molds  and  bake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

These  are  the  popular  little  French  cakes,  baked  in  special 
shell-shaped  molds,  that  so  frequently  please  the  tourist's  palate. 
They  are  thought  to  have  originated  in  Strassburg,  but  so  long 
ago  that  no  proof  is  available. 

MACAROONS 

1  pound  blanched   almonds,  in-      Grated  peel  l/2  lemon,  yellow 

eluding  a  few  bitter  ones,  all  rind  only 

ground  l/&  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  powdered  sugar  l/z  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  citron,  chopped  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  orange  peel,  6  egg  whites 

chopped  Candied  fruit,  chopped,  or  jelly 


368 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


Mix  ground  almonds,  2*4  cups  powdered  sugar,  citron,  or- 
ange and  lemon  peel  together.  Flavor  with  salt,  vanilla  and 
lemon  juice.  When  thoroughly  incorporated  lightly  fold  in 
beaten  egg  whites.  Shape  in  rounds  with  spoon  on  a  buttered, 
lightly  floured  baking  sheet.  Make  a  depression  in  center  of 
each  with  finger  tips,  sprinkle  the  last  l/2  cup  sugar  over  and 
let  stand  l/2  hour.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.).  Place 
a  candied  cherry,  other  chopped  candied  fruit  or  jelly  in  the 
depression  in  the  centers.    Cool  and  serve. 

Although  France  borrowed  the  macaroon  from  her  southern 
neighbors  she  added  her  culinary  genius  to  it,  especially  in  gar- 
nishing with  fruits  and  jellies,  making  the  macaroon  almost  a 
nougat.  And  besides  that  she  classified  them  into  sees,  parfaits 
and  fins;  those  of  Amiens,  (with  apple  jelly)  St.  Emilion,  Bay- 
onne  and  Touraine  being  the  most  exquisite. 

BOILED  PUFF  PASTE 
(Pdte-a-Chou) 

1  cup  hot  water  |4  cup  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  flour 

4  eg& 

Put  water,  salt,  and  butter  in  saucepan  over  fire  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  When  it  boils  drop  in  sifted  flour  immediately  and 
stir  briskly  until  dough  no  longer  clings  to  bottom  of  pan.  Re- 
move from  fire,  and  stir  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  2  minutes 
between  each  addition.    Use  for  the  recipes  which  follow. 

CREAM  PUFFS 
(Chou  a  la  Creme) 

Prepare  a  pate-a-chou  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  but- 
tered baking  sheet  in  6  round  cakes,  about  2  inches  high  and 
slightly  raised  in  center.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (4250  F.)  until  no 


FRENCH  369 

moisture  shows  on  puffs.  (They  should  be  golden  in  color.) 
Let  cool  30  minutes,  then  make  an  incision  at  one  side  with 
scissors;  fill  with  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream,  and 
close.    Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

ECLAIRS 

Prepare  a  pate-a-chou;  put  in  pastry  bag  with  tube,  and  press 
out  on  buttered  baking  sheet  in  the  shape  of  lady  fingers.  Bake 
20  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Remove;  and  when  cool,  open  at  one 
side  and  with  a  spoon  fill  interiors  with  any  desired  cream  fill- 
ing, glaze  with  chocolate,  vanilla,  coffee  or  any  frosting  desired. 

Of  the  whole  category  of  French  pastries,  eclairs  are  perhaps 
the  most  typical.  They  take  the  place  of  our  sundaes  or  malted 
milk  mixtures  for  a  quick  lunch,  with  a  cup  of  coffee  or  chocolate. 

PUFF  PASTE 
(Pate  Feuillettee) 

1%  cups  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

3%  cups  flour,  sifted  1  cup  ice  water 

Knead  butter  in  cold  water  to  remove  salt,  press  into  a  flat 
square,  dry,  and  place  on  ice  to  harden.  Sift  flour  into  mixing 
bowl,  make  hollow  in  center  and  put  in  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt, 
and  ice  water.  Gradually  work  to  a  soft,  smooth  dough  and 
knead  5  minutes  en  floured  board.  Cover,  and  set  on  ice  15 
minutes.  Then  turn  on  floured  board  again,  roll  out  to  a  sheet 
about  %  inch  thick  and  lay  butter  in  center.  Fold  over  the  4 
corners  to  enclose  it  (this  is  called  1  turn);  then  flatten  lightly 
with  roller  until  dough  is  about  2  inches  thick  and  again  set 
on  ice  for  15  minutes.  Return  to  board,  roll  out  lengthwise, 
fold  in  4  laps  (second  turn)  and  let  cool  15  minutes.  Repeat 
this  operation  twice  more,  folding  in  4  laps  and  rolling  each 
time  in  a  contrary  direction,  making  4  "turns"  in  all.  A  5 
minutes'  rest  and  it  is  ready  to  use.    Dough  must  be  kept  firm 


370 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


and  cool  during  entire  process,  and  baked  when  finished  or  it 
will  fail  to  rise.  Rolled  to  J4  mch  thickness  it  will  rise  to  2 
inches  when  baked.  It  is  used  to  make  vol-au-vent,  small  cakes 
and  all  sorts  of  tarts. 

A  THOUSAND  FLAKES 

{Mille-Feuilles) 

Roll  out  1  pound  of  puff  paste  and  divide  into  5  equal  parts. 
Roll  each  piece  into  an  oblong  4  inches  by  12.  Place  them  on 
a  baking  sheet,  sprinkle  with  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  bake 
10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.).  Remove,  and  form  a  cake 
by  putting  these  oblongs  one  on  top  of  the  other  with  layers 
of  different  colored  preserves  between.  Cut  the  cake  into  6  equal 
portions  and  decorate  with  whipped  cream. 

MATCHES 

(Allumettes) 

Roll  out  puff  paste  into  a  thin  square  sheet.  Cut  in  strips 
%  inch  wide  and  3  inches  long.  Place  on  a  buttered  and  lightly 
floured  baking  sheet,  a  little  distance  apart.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

-Normandy  ROUEN  CREAM  TARTS 

(Mirlitons  de  Rouen) 

Puff  paste  3  ounces  granulated  sugar 

3  eggs  lA  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  ounce  stale  lady  fingers 

Y2  ounce  candied  orange  flowers 

Have  ready  2  dozen  small  deep  patty  pans  lined  with  thinly 
rolled  puff  paste.  Then  put  eggs  and  butter  into  a  bowl  with 
a  spout.  Crush  lady  fingers  and  bruise  blossoms.  With  a 
wooden  spoon  stir  all  together  to  a  creamy  batter,  then  pour  at 


FRENCH  371 

once  into  the  lined  tins.  Sift  sugar  rather  thickly  over  mirlitons; 
when  it  has  nearly  melted  on  the  surface,  put  in  a  moderately 
slow  oven  (325^.),  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.  When  done 
the  centers  should  rise  about  l/2  inch  high. 

Pounded  almonds,  pistachios,  or  grated  chocolate  may  be 
added  to  the  cream  before  turning  into  tins.  Cream  may  be 
flavored  with  different  extracts  or  liqueurs. 

ALMOND  TART 

{Gateau  d'Amandes) 

Roll  out  a  thin  sheet  of  puff  paste,  cut  from  it  a  round  piece, 
the  size  of  a  dinner  plate.  With  thumb  and  forefinger  pinch  a 
small  rim  about  l/2  inch  high  and  il/2  inch  inside  of  the  edge 
of  paste.  Nearly  fill  with  almond  cream  inside  of  ledge.  Wet 
the  edge.  Cut  out  another  smaller  round  to  fit  top,  make  a 
few  incisions,  and  place  over  cream,  pinching  the  two  edges 
together.  Brush  over  with  a  beaten  egg  and  bake  30  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  glaze.  Serve 
cold. 

Lorraine  CHEESE  TARTLETS 

(Talmouses) 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  pastry  flour,  sifted 

14  cup  butter  6  tablespoons  cottage  cheese 

!4  cup  granulated  sugar         3  eggs 
Grated  rind  of  l/2  orange         Pinch  of  salt 
Puff  paste 

Bring  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  orange  rind  to  a  boil.  Add 
flour,  stirring  constantly  for  2  or  3  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  well-drained  cheese,  and  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  salt. 
Roll  puff  paste  about  %  inch  thick,  cut  out  2-inch  rounds  and 
place  on  a  baking  sheet  1  inch  apart.    Put  in  center  of  each  a 


372  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

spoonful  of  mixture,  moisten  edges  and  turn  over  in  shape  of 
a  three-cornered  hat.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  to  a 
delicate  brown  in  a  hot  oven  (400°F.).  Dust  with  sugar  and 
serve  hot  or  cold.    These  tartlets  may  also  be  filled  with  frangi- 

Pam*  APPLE  TART  OF  ARTOIS 

(Pommes  a  VArtois) 

Yi  pound  puff  paste  Currant  jelly 

Apple  marmalade  i  egg  yolk,  beaten 

Powdered  sugar 

Roll  out  l/2  of  paste  into  a  thin  square  sheet.  Spread  marma- 
lade with  a  little  jelly  over  it  l/2  inch  thick  and  Yi  inch  from 
edge.  Roll  out  remaining  half  into  a  sheet  the  same  size.  Hold 
it  on  the  rolling  pin  and  lay  over  marmalade;  wet  edge  of  lower 
sheet  and  press  the  two  edges  together.  Brush  with  egg  yolk, 
beaten  with  a  little  water.  Make  a  few  lengthwise  incisions  with 
sharp  knife  in  top  crust,  and  powder  with  sugar.  Put  on  a 
baking  sheet  and  bake  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (350°F.). 

SHORT  PASTE  FOR  PIES 
(Pate  Brisee) 

1Y2  cups  flour  Yi  cup  butter 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  Yi  cup  ice  water 

Sift  flour  with  salt,  work  butter  in  lightly  with  fingertips, 
add  ice  water  and  mix  thoroughly,  pat  into  loaf,  wrap  in  wax 
paper  and  chill  1  hour  or  more  in  refrigerator  before  using. 

GRAPE  TART 
(Tarte  a  la  F ontainebleau) 

Prepare  and  bake  a  pie  shell,  baste  with  thick  sugar  syrup 
and  dry  in  warming  oven.  Cover  a  pound  of  white  grapes  with 
1Y2  cups  powdered  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  of  sweet  white  wine. 


FRENCH  373 

Toss  a  little  and  allow  sugar  to  melt  to  a  syrup.    Fill  crust  and 

serve. 

STRAWBERRY  TART 

(Tarte  aux  F raises) 

Pour  a  cup  of  thick  sugar  syrup  over  a  cup  of  strawberries 
and  allow  to  stand  2  hours.  Prepare  and  bake  a  pastry  shell; 
brush  it  well  with  sugar  syrup  and  dry  in  the  warming  oven; 
cool;  fill  with  a  layer  of  large  ripe  strawberries  and  strain  the 
strawberry  syrup  over  them. 

WONDERS 

(Merveilles) 

2  cups  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon   cinnamon 

6  eggs,  beaten  well  3%  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

Yi  cup  milk  54  CUP  powdered  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  eggs,  add  milk,  soda  and 

cinnamon,  stir  thoroughly  and  work  in  flour  to  a  smooth  dough. 

Roll  out  into  thin  sheets  cut  into  narrow  strips,  twist  into  fancy 

shapes,  and  drop  into  deep  boiling  fat.    When  a  rich  mahogany 

color,  remove,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  dust  with  powdered 

sugar. 
5  FRITTER  BATTER 

(Pate  a  Frire) 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  brandy 

1  teaspoon  olive  oil  3  tgg  yolks,  beaten 

1  cup  flour  Y&  teaspoon  salt 

3  egg  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 

Pour  boiling  water  into  a  basin  and  beat  into  it  the  oil,  flour, 
brandy  and  beaten  egg  yolks,  being  careful  that  no  lumps  form; 
add  beaten  whites  last.  A  little  more  water  may  be  added  if 
necessary.  The  batter  must  be  of  the  proper  consistency  to  coat 
fruit  when  immersed  in  it. 


374 


THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 


FRITTERS  BLENDED 

(Beignets  a  la  Alliance) 

4  apples  Peach  marmalade 

4  tablespoons  of  sugar  20  peach  halves 

Yi  cup  brandy  Powdered  sugar 

Core,  peel,  cut  apples  crosswise  into  5  slices  and  let  steep 
Y2  hour  in  sugar  and  brandy.  Drain  and  spread  on  a  cloth. 
Run  a  teaspoon  of  marmalade  around  center  of  each  slice  of 
apple,  lay  a  peach-half  over,  press  together  and  dip  into  fritter 
batter.  Fry  crisp  and  light  brown.  Powder  with  sugar,  glaze 
quickly  in  hot  oven  and  serve. 

FLOWER  OF  ACACIA  FRITTERS 

(Beignets  d' Acacia) 

2  egg  whites  4  tablespoons  brandy 

l/i  cup  powdered  sugar  2  cups  acacia  blossoms 

Beat  egg  whites  with  sugar  and  brandy;  select  tender  fresh 
acacia  flowers  (elderberry  blossoms  are  equally  good)  and  put 
into  a  bowl  with  the  beaten  mixture.  Cover  and  let  flowers  steep 
Y2  hour.  Dip  them  by  spoonfuls  into  fritter  batter  and  fry  to  a 
golden  brown.  The  batter  must  be  thick  enough  to  coat  flowers 
with  1  immersion.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar. 

SOUFFLE  FRITTERS 
(Pets  de  Nonne) 

1  cup  flour 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
54  teaspoon  salt  4  or  5  eggs 

1  coffeespoon  orange  flower-water 


1  pint  water 

3  tablespoons  butter 


Put  water,  salt  and  butter  in  saucepan  over  fire  and  bring  to 
a  boil;  immediately  drop  in  flour  and  stir  briskly  until  dough 


FRENCH 


375 


forms  a  ball  in  pan.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  eggs  i  at  a  time, 
and  beat  2  minutes  between  each  addition.  Add  sugar  and 
flower-water  last.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  deep  fat.  Cakes 
should  brown  on  one  side,  and  rise  to  top  of  fat;  turn,  and  brown 
on  other  side;  remove,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Fat  must 
not  be  too  hot  or  cakes  will  brown  before  they  puff  out;  and  if 
not  hot  enough,  they  will  absorb  the  fat.  Test  by  dropping  in 
a  bread  cube.  If  it  browns  in  60  seconds,  the  fat  is  of  the  right 
temperature. 

This  recipe  was  originated  at  Baumes-les-Dames  Abbey  over 
two  centuries  ago  and  some  version  of  it  is  found  today  in  nearly 
every  city  of  the  world. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES 

(  Crepes) 

il/i  cups  sifted  flour      2%  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
3  eggs  1  cup  milk 

Sift  flour  into  mixing  bowl.  Break  eggs  in  center,  add  sugar 
and  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon.  Add  milk  slowly  and  beat 
4  or  5  minutes  to  a  smooth  batter.  Butter  a  griddle  or  frying 
pan,  heat,  and  pour  in  about  %  cup  of  batter,  cook  2  minutes 
on  each  side,  sprinkle  generously  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve  hot.    This  quantity  makes  about  12  pancakes. 

Pancakes  may  be  spread  with  currant  jelly,  rolled,  powdered 
with  sugar,  and  glazed  under  broiler.  French  pancakes  with 
apple,  apricot,  peach,  plum,  pineapple,  strawberry  or  raspberry 
ielly  are  prepared  the  same. 

EVERYDAY  PANCAKES 

(Crepes  de  Menage) 

4  eggs  i/4  cups  flour,   sifted  3  times 

!/4  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  brandy 

%  cup  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  Sweet  butter  for  frying 

2  tablespoons  thick  cream  Powdered  sugar 


376  THE  EUROPEAN  COOKBOOK 

Beat  eggs  with  salt,  oil  and  cream  until  light  and  frothy. 
Sift  flour  into  mixing  bowl,  make  well  in  center  and  put  in 
liquid.  With  a  wooden  spoon  work  in  the  flour,  a  little  at  a 
time,  until  a  smooth  batter  is  obtained;  then  add  brandy.  Put  i 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  hot  frying  pan  and  drop  in  2  tablespoons 
of  batter.  It  should  spread  to  cover  bottom  of  pan,  cook  a 
moment,  turn  and  cook  another  moment  and  slide  on  to  a  hot 
plate  and  powder  well  with  sugar.  Pile  the  crepes,  1  above  an- 
other, as  finished,  and  serve  hot. 

PANCAKES  WITH  PEACHES 
{Crepes  a  la  Peche) 

1  cup  sifted  flour  3  eggs 

!/4  cup  granulated  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

lA  cup  melted  butter  Milk 

J4  cup  almond  macaroons,  Cooked  peaches,  finely  sliced 
powdered 

Put  ingredients,  except  milk  and  peaches,  into  mixing  bowl, 
and  combine  with  an  egg-beater.  Then  add  enough  milk  to  give 
mixture  the  consistency  of  flour  batter.  Butter  2  small  frying 
pans,  and  make  several  thin  pancakes.  Put  on  a  cloth  and  spread 
with  peaches,  well  drained.  Roll  them,  one  by  one,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar  and  lay  on  a  baking  sheet.  Put  under  a 
hot  grill  and  glaze  to  a  nice  color.  Serve  in  circle  on  hot  dish 
with  more  of  the  peaches  and  some  of  the  juice  in  center. 

CREPES   A   LA   MARRON 

Prepare  pancake  batter  as  for  peaches  and  make  a  number 
of  slightly  browned  thin  pancakes.  Spread  some  sweetened 
puree  of  chestnuts  mixed  with  a  glass  of  maraschino  over  each 
one;  roll,  powder  with  sugar,  glaze  and  serve. 


FRENCH  377 

CHOCOLAT  AU  RHUM 

Stamp  out  6  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  into  macaroon  shapes; 
toast  a  delicate  brown,  and  sprinkle  each  round  with  a  few  drops 
of  rum.  Melt  4  ounces  of  unsweetened  chocolate  over  hot  water 
with  J4  cup  hot  rum  and  %  cup  granulated  sugar.  Stir  until 
smooth  and  cover  toast  with  it.  Let  cool,  then  reheat  and  serve 
hot. 


A  SELECTION  OF  DISTINCTIVE  DINNER  DISHES 
FROM  A  PARISIAN  MENU 

Potages:  Bisque  d'ecrevisses 

Julienne  aux  pointes  d'asperges 

Potage  a  la  reine  au  lait  d'amandes,  avec  biscotes 

Consomme  de  volaille 

Releves:  Brochet  a  la  Chambord 
Dinde  aux  truffes 
Turbot 
Culotte  de  boeuf  au  vin  de  Madere,  garnie  de  legumes 

Entrees  (the  Chef's  Own  Art) : 

Aspic  de  filets  mignons  de  perdreaux 

Jardiniere 

Filets  de  poularde,  piques  aux  truffes 

Perdreaux  rouges  au  fumet 

Filets  de  mauviette  sautee 

Scaloppes  de  poularde,  au  veloute 

Filets  de  lapereaux,  en  turban 

Vol-au-vent  a  la  financiere 

Ailerons  piques,  a  la  chicoree 

Poulets  de  grains  au  beurre  decrevisse 

Filets  mignons,  piques  de  truffes 

Grosses  Pieces:  Truit,  pate  de  foie  gras,  jambon  glace 
Plats  de  Rot:  Faisan,  eperlans,  becassines,  soles 

378 


FRENCH  379 

Entremets:  Une  jatte  de  blanc-manger,  miroton  de  pommes, 
asperges  en  branche,  trufifes  a  la  serviette,  cardons  a  la  moelle, 
souffle  a  la  vanille,  gelee  d'orange 

Desserts:  Flan  aux  marrons,  souffle  Dauphinois  au  Potiron, 
Savarin  a  la  Parisienne,  omelette  Normande. 

Such  a  selection  of  exquisite  dishes  can  be  seen  on  the  every- 
day menu  of  a  dozen  of  Paris's  finest  restaurants,  and  even  the 
humblest  eating  places  feature  one  or  another  of  them  as  their 
plat  de  jour  (dish  of  the  day).  Each  has  its  own  original  entrees 
and  tarte  de  maison,  as  well.  This  is  made  possible  only  because 
the  choicest  of  foodstuffs,  as  well  as  the  finest  of  wines,  flow 
into  Paris  from  every  provincial  corner  and  colonial  possession, 
Algiers  and  Corsica  nearby,  Martinique  and  Tahiti,  halfway 
around  the  world. 

The  main  market  of  Paris,  Les  Halles,  is  beyond  doubt  the 
best  stocked  in  the  world.  Live  fish,  lobsters  and  eels  in  tanks, 
truffles,  mushrooms  and  morels,  any  luxury  you  fancy,  be  it 
Beluchistan  caviare,  bar-le-duc  or  white  truffles.  In  the  vast 
meat  halls  prime  meats  and  game,  ranging  from  capons  to  boar's 
head,  sausages  of  an  ingenuity  almost  teutonic. 

But  these  are  bought  up  for  the  elite  and  the  morning 
throngs  of  Parisians  jostle  each  other  in  filling  their  baskets  with 
the  giblets,  tripe,  lungs,  pigs'  hearts,  parts  that  we  in  our  waste- 
fulness throw  away.  Yet  every  basket  is  gay  with  a  bouquet  of 
flowers  and  cheerful  with  mushrooms  peeping  out  over  the  edge, 
since  the  Capital  itself  supplies  the  whole  nation  with  cham- 
pignons grown  right  under  the  city,  in  the  deserted  catacombs. 
Wherever  you  travel,  from  Nice  to  Strasbourg  you  get  the 
standardized  champignons  de  Paris. 


r 


INDICES 


r 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Acacia  Flowers,  Fritters  of,  274 

Agro  Dolce  Sauce,  50 

Aigo-Sau,  301 

Aioli,  349 

All -fruits  Ice,  64 

Almond  and  Honey  Nougat,  203 

Almond  Cake,  260 

Almond  Ice,  204 

Almond,  Milk  of,  Rice  Pudding,  78 

Almond  Paste  for  Cakes,  196 

Almond  Paste,  Fried,  202 

Almond  Paste,  Italian,  72 

Almond  Pie,  261 

Almond  Pudding,  77 

Almond  Refresher,  I,  II,  206-207 

Almond  Sauce,  163 

Almond  Sauce,  Ray  Fish  with,  130 

Almond  Soup,  113,  227 

Almond  Straws,  195 

Almond  Tart,  371 

Alsatian  Sauerkraut,  339 

Analoni,  Parma  Style,  19 

Anchoade,  283 

Anchovies,  Spaghetti  with,  23 

Anchovy  Canapes,  15 

Anchovy  Salad,  15 

Anis  Jelly,  Pears  in,  201 

Any  Fish,  Smothered,  236 

Appetizers 

French,  283-285 

Italian,  13-17 
Apple  Marmalade  Souffle,  356 
Apple  Pudding,  262 
Apples,  Baked,  201 
Apples  in  Butter,  359 
Apples  in  Flames,  360 
Arropa,  207 

Artichokes,  Eggs  with,  145 
Artichokes,  Fried  Stuffed,  177 
Artichokes,  Frosted,  178 
Artichokes,  Garnish  of,  171 


383 


Artichokes,  Jerusalem,  55 
Artichoke  Hearts,  Stuffed,  59 
Asparagus  Andalusian  Style,  173 
Asparagus  in  Butter,  174 
Asparagus  in  Sauce,  173 
Asparagus,  Veal  with,  144 
Asparagus  with  Parmesan,  59 

Bacon,  Heavenly,  265 

Baked  Apples,  201 

Baked  Eggplant  Salad,  212 

Baked  Eggplant,  with  Egg,  57 

Baked  Fish,  232 

Baked  Fish  Nicoise,  303 

Baked  Fish,  Sauce  for,  164 

Baked  Kid,  249 

Baked  Macaroni,  25 

Baked  Ox-tongue,  150 

Baked  Peppers,  Plain,  59 

Balls,  Meat,  245 

Balls,  Potato,  180 

Bar  le  Due,  361 

Basque  Eggs,  210 

Basque  Kitchen,  208 

Basque  Soup,  209 

Bass  Fillets,  Sicilian,  36 

Batter,  Fritter,  373 

Bean  Salad,  Lima,  189 

Beans,  Green,  175 

Beans,  Sauce  for  Fresh  Kidney,  169 

Beans,  Shelled  Green,  259 

Beans,  Spanish,  178 

Beans,  String,  Lyonnaise,  344 

Beans,  String,  Salad  of,  189 

Beef  a  la  Mode,  320 

Beef  en  Daube,  320 

Beef,  Minced,  246 

Beef,  Spanish  Roast,  146 

Beef  Toledo  Style,  146 

Beefsteak,  Grilled,  Bordeaux,  319 

Beefsteak,  National,  148 


384 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Beefsteak,  Spanish,  147 

Beefsteaks,  Little  Pan-fried,  246 

Beefsteaks  with  Pine  Nuts,  148 

Bercy,  Eggs,  313 

Bercy  S~uce,  314 

Birds,  Bisque  of,  293 

Birds,  Fried,  254 

Birds,  Garnish  for,  170 

Birds,  Sauce  for  Roasted,  167 

Birds,  Small  Game,  Roasted,  159 

Birds  Smothered  in  Rice,  48 

Biscayenne  Pork,  212 

Biscuit,  Madrid,  200 

Biscuits,  Neapolitan  Glaces,  67 

Bisque,  Crayfish,  292 

Bisque,  Lobster,  293 

Bisque  of  Poultry  or  Birds,  293 

Bisque,  Shrimp,  293 

Black  Pudding,  77 

Blended  Fritters,  374 

Blossoms,  Stuffed  Squash,  348 

Boiled  Dinner,  114 

Boiled  Puff  Paste,  369 

Boiling  Fish,  Stock  for,  122 

Bones,  Marrow,  43 

Bordeaux,  Crawfish,  307 

Bordeaux  Grilled  Steak,  319 

Bordelaise  Chicken,  331 

Bordelaise,  Mushrooms,  348 

Bordelaise  Sauce,  313,  319 

Bordelaise  Sauce,  Eggs  with,  312 

Bouillabaisse,  294 

Brains,  Calves',  145 

Braised  Partridges,  253 

Brandade,  Codfish,  305 

Brandied  Cherries,  360 

Bread,  Chestnut  Sweet,  68 

Bread,  French  Fancy,  362 

Bread,  Italian  Sweet,  68 

Bread,  Neapolitan,  68 

Bread,  Sausage,  144 

Bread,  Stale,  Dishes 

Anchoade,  283 

Fried  Bread,  185 

Fried  Bread  in  Sauce,  200 

Fried  Bread  with  Garlic,  185 

Gazpacho,  185 

Gazpadeo,  185 

Panata,  30 

Pudding,  263 
Bream  Supreme,  125 
Bream  with  Sauce,  125 
Brioche  a  la  Conde,  363 
Brioches,  Small,  363 


Brittany  Crust  Soup,  292 
Broiled  Meats,  Garnish  for,  171 
Brook  Trout,  Smothered,  126 
Broth,  Seed,  106 
Brown  Sauce,  167 
Browned  Shrimps,  241 
Brussels  Sprouts,  Eggs  with,  138 
Budino  de  Mandorle,  77 
Burgundy  Poached  Eggs,  316 
Burgundy  Snails,  310 
Butter,  Apples  in,  359 
Butter,  Asparagus  in,  174 
Butter,  Burnt  Eggs  in,  136 
Butter  Cakes,  Pine  Nut,  197 
Butter,  Crayfish,  332 
Butter,  Spaghetti  with,  22 

Cake 

Almond,  260 

Christmas,  69 

Fruit,  365 

Genoese,  70 

Gypsy's  Embrace,  193 

Neapolitan,  70 

Savoy  Sponge,  363 

Spice,  364 

to  eat  with  Wine,  260 
Cakes,  Almond  Paste  for,  196 
Cakes 

Chestnut,  70 

Cream  Puffs,  269 

Dainty  Mouthfuls,  367 

Date  Meringues,  72 

Doughnuts,  199 

Dreams,  265 

Eclairs,  369 

Lady  Fingers,  366 

Little  Lisieux,  366 

Macaroons,  198,  367 

Macaroons,  Italian,  71 

Maidens'  Kisses,  264 

Matches,  370 

Monks'  Hoods,  266 

Nut,  197 

Pine  Nut  Butter,  197 

Puffs  of  Wind,  192 

Sighs,  192 

Sighs  of  a  Nun,  266 

Sweet  Dumplings,  72 

Sweet  Ring,  197 

Tinder  Boxes,  264 

Towers,  200 

Wonders,  274 
Calves'  Brains,  145 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


385 


Calves'  Liver  with  Parmesan,  42 

Canapes,  Anchovy,  15 

Capilotade,  47 

Capon  with  Pine  Nuts,  47 

Caramel  Custard,  353 

Carrots,  Thick  Soup  of,  291 

Cassoulet  a  la  Languedocienne,  340 

Cassoulet  de  Castelnaudary,  341 

Catalan  Sauce,  165 

Catalan  Squid,  132 

Cauliflower,  Fried,  174 

Cauliflower,  Quilted,  174 

Cauliflower  Roman  Style,  56 

Celery  in  Sauce,  175 

Cheese,  Cottage,  82 

Cheese,  Eggs  with,  138 

Cheese  Fondu,  317 

Cheese,  Italian  Cottage,  82 

Cheese  Tartlets,  371 

Cherries,  Brandied,  360 

Cherry  Fritters,  75 

Chestnut  and  Raisin  Compote,  80 

Chestnut  Cake,  70 

Chestnut  Fritters,  74 

Chestnut  Puree,  113 

Chestnut  Sweet,  202 

Chestnut  Sweet  Bread,  68 

Chestnuts,  Mashed  Potatoes  and,  347 

Chestnuts,  Roasted,  80 

Chestnuts,  Sugared,  80 

Chicken 

a  la  Marengo,  45 

Bordelaise,  331 

Champagne  Style,  329 

Fricasseed,   155 

Fried  Spring,  46 

Languedoc,  328 

Livers,  253 

Livers,  Crostini  of,  17 

Salad,  190 

Saute,  253 

Soup,  226 

Spanish  Style,  154 

Style  of  Beaune,  333 

Thrice-cooked,  44 

Valencia  Style,  156 

with  Crayfish  Butter,  331 

with  Olives,  47 

with  Rice,  154 

with  White  Wine,  46 
Chipirones  a  la  Guipuzcoane,  21 1 
Chives,  Sauce  of,  341 
Chocolat  au  Rhum,  371 
Chocolate  Ice  Cream,  63 


Chocolate  Mousse,  356 

Chocolate  Pudding,  78,  262 

Chocolate  Sauce,  268 

Chocolate,  Souffle  au,  356 

Chops,  Fried  Pork,  249 

Chops,  Milanese  Pork,  44 

Chops,  Pork  with  Capers,  152 

Christmas  Cake,  69 

Christmas  Tarts,  195 

Cocido,  115 

Cocido,  Sauce  for,  116 

Cod,  Biscayenne,  209 

Cod,  Harlequin  of,  122 

Cod  in  Sauce,  122 

Codfish  Bologna  Style,  36 

Codfish,  Fresh,  with  Rice,  231 

Codfish  Pie,  123 

Codfish,  Salt,  Baked,  239 

Codfish,  Salt,  in  Sauce,  239 

Codfish,  Salt,  with  Honey,  124 

Codfish  with  Cream  Sauce,  123 

Coffee  Ice  Cream,  63 

Coffee  Par  fait,  357 

Cold  Milk  Soup,  107 

Compote,  Chestnut  and  Raisin,  80 

Compote,  Peach,  81,  359 

Compote,  Pear,  359 

Conserve,  Tutti-Frutti,  81 

Consomme,  294 

Consomme  a  la  Monte  Carlo,  296 

Consomme,  Chevalier,  295 

Consomme  Talleyrand,  295 

Cooked  Meat  in  Gravy,  149 

Cooked  Meat  with  Filberts,  149 

Cornmeal  Fritters,  75 

Corn  Meal  Souffle,  73 

Crabs,  133 

Crab  Soup,  290 

Crayfish  Bisque,  292 

Crayfish  Bordeaux  Style,  307 

Crayfish  Butter,  332 

Cream,  Bacchanalian,  354 

Cream  for  Cakes,  196 

Cream  Filling,  Spanish,  193 

Cream,  Fried,  261 

Cream,  Kirsch,  355 

Cream,  Orange  Flower,  354 

Cream  Puddings,  Litde,  78 

Cream  Puffs,  368 

Cream  Puffs,  Spanish,  193 

Cream,  Rum,  354 

Cream  Sauce,  164 

Cream,  Sherry,  204 

Crepes  a  la  Marron,  376 


386 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Croquettes,  Milanese,  48 
Croquettes,  Shrimp,  240 
Crosini  of  Chicken  Livers,  17 
Curry,  Portuguese,  248 
Custard,  Caramel,  353 
Custard,  Vanilla,  353 
Custards,  352 
Custards,  Cup,  353 
Cutlets,  Milanese  Lamb,  40 

Dainty  Mouthfuls,  367 

Darioles,  352 

Date  Meringues,  72 

Daussade,  The,  284 

Doughnuts,  199 

Dreams,  264 

Dressing  for  Fish  Salads,  16 

Dressing,  Spanish,  187 

Drinks 

Almond  Refresher,  1,  11,  206,  207 

Arropa,  207 

Frozen  Spanish  Punch,  207 

Orange  Flower,  207 
Dry  Soup,  229 
Duck  in  Chemise,  333 
Duckling  with  Sour  Oranges,  334 

Eclairs,  369 
Economical  Soup,  no 
Eel  with  Macaroni,  37 
Eel,  Red,  133 
Eggs 

Basque,  210 

Bercy,  313 

Fried,  140 

Garnished,  136 

Huevos  a  la  Mode,  135 

in  Burnt  Butter,  136 

in  Cocotte,  312 

in  Onion  Sauce,  137 

in  Potatoes,  137 

Modern  Style,  135 

Omelet,  Ham,  142 

Omelet  St.  Jean,  314 

Omelet,  Sauce  for,  165 

Omelet,  Spanish,  141 

Omelet,  Whitebait,  37 

Perigord,  312 

Poached,  316 

Portuguese  Style,  244 

Sauce  for  Hard-boiled,  163 

Scrambled,  140 

Shirred,  Dijon,  313 

Souffle,  Corn  Meal,  73 


Eggs  (Cont.) 

Souffle,  Farina,  73 

Souffle,  Plain,  315 

Souffle,  Therese's  Spinach,  316 

Stuffed,  146 

Toledo  Style,  136 

with  Artichokes,  139 

with  Brussels  Sprouts,  138 

with  Cheese,  138 

with  Fish  Sauce,  244 

with  Garlic  and  Cumin,  139 

with  Tomatoes,  138 
Eggplant,  Baked,  Salad,  212 
Eggplant,  Baked  with  Egg,  57 
Eggplant  Italian  Style,  56 
Eggplant,  Sicilian,  57 
Enrico's  Fried  Zucchini,  54 
Everyday  Pancakes,  375 

Farina  Souffle,  73 

Fennel,  56 

Fennel,  Pork  Liver  with,  44 

Fifteen-Minute  Soup,  109 

Figs  Roman  Style,  81 

Filbert  Nougat,  202 

Filberts,  Cooked  Meat  with,  149 

Fillet  of  Venison,  251 

Fillet  of  Whiting,  35 

Filling,  Green,  30 

Filling,  Meat,  29 

Fillings,  Other,  30 

Fish  and  Sea  Food 
Anchoade,  283 

Anchovies,  Spaghetti  with,  23 
Anchovy  Salad,  15 
Any  Fish  Smothered,  236 
Baked,  232 
Baked,  Nicoise,  303 
Bass,  Fillets,  Sicilian,  36 
Bouillabaisse,  294 
Bream  Supreme,  125 
Bream  with  Sauce,  125 
Brook  Trout,  Smothered,  126 
Cod  Biscayenne,  209 
Codfish  Bologna  Style,  36 
Codfish  Brandade,  305 
Codfish  with  Cream  Sauce,  123 
Codfish  Pie,  123 
Codfish,  Fresh,  with  Rice,  231 
Codfish,  Salt,  Baked,  239 
Codfish,  Salt,  in  Sauce,  239 
Codfish,  Salt,  with  Honey,  124 
Cod,  Harlequin  of,  122 
Cod  in  Sauce,  122 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


387 


Fish  and  Sea  Food  (Cont.) 
Cod,  with  Rice,  231 
Crabs,  133 
Crab  Soup,  290 
Crayfish  Bisque,  292 
Crayfish  Bordeaux  Style,  307 
Crayfish  Butter,  332 
Dressing  for  Fish,  16 
Eel,  Painting  the,  133 
Eel  Whitebait,  131 
Eel  with  Macaroni,  37 
Fancy  Fish  Dish,  237 
Fillet  of  Fish  Massena,  35 
Fricassee  of  Fish,  126 
in  Sour  Sauce,  129 
Fried,  129 
Fried  in  Sauce,  128 
Garnish  for  Fried  Fish,  172 
Herring  Salad,  203 
Little  Fish  with  Lemon,  129 
Lusitania  Style,  232 
Mackerel,  Flemish,  302 
Mackerel,  Grilled,  124 
Mackerel,  Small,  Grilled,  234 
Marinated  Fish,  Fried,  235 
Matelote,  Normandy,  300 
Matelote  of  Fresh  Water  Fish,  301 
Panned  Fish,  127 
Pies,  36 

Ray  with  Almond  Sauce,  130 
Ray  with  Capers,  306 
Salmon  Pancake,  131 
Salmon,  Stuffed,  234 
Sartagnade,  306 
Sauce,  Fish,  165 
Sauce  for  Baked  Fish,  164 
Sauce  for  Grilled  Fish,  163 
Sauce,  Sorrel,  243 
Sauce,  Venetian,  52 
Sardine  Pie,  238 
Sardines,  238 

Sardines,  Spinach  with,  259 
Scallops,  308 

Scallops  Style  of  Nantes,  308 
Sea  Urchins,  310 
Shad,  Roast,  121 
Shrimp    and    Flounder    Mayonnaise, 

242 
Shrimp  and  Oysters  with  Macaroni, 

242 
Shrimp  Bisque,  293 
Shrimp  Croquettes,  240 
Shrimp  Patties,  134 
Shrimp  Soup,  227 


Fish  and  Sea  Food   (Cont.) 
Shrimps,  Browned,  241 
Shrimps  Fried  in  Batter,  240 
Sicilian  Fish  Fillets,  35 
Small  Fish  Breaded,  128 
Sole,  Filet  de,  Marguery,  299 
Sole  in  Shrimp  Sauce,  236 
Sole  Normande,  298 
Soup,  Fish,  108 
Squid  a  la  Catalana,  132 
Squid,  Spanish,  132 
Stock  for  Boiling  Fish,  122 
Tunny  in  Casserole,  130 
Whitebait  Omelet,  Napoli,  37 
Whitebait  Soup,  Nice,  290 
Whiting,  Fillet  of,  35 

Fishwife's  Stew,  233 

Flemish  Mackerel,  102 

Florentine  Spinach,  59 

Flowers,  Meat,  247 

Fondu,  317 

French  Fancy  Bread,  362 

French  Pancakes,  375 

Fricasseed  Chicken,  155 

Fried  Almond  Paste,  202 

Fried  Birds,  254 

Fried  Bread,  185 

Fried  Bread  in  Sauce,  200 

Fried  Bread  with  Garlic,  185 

Fried  Cauliflower,  174 

Fried  Cream,  261 

Fried  Eggs,  140 

Fried  Polenta,  33 

Fried  Stuffed  Artichokes,  177 

Fried  Spring  Chicken,  46 

Fritter  Batter,  373 

Fritters  Blended,  374 

Fritters,  Cherry,  75 

Fritters,  Chestnut,  74 

Fritters,  Cornmeal,  75 

Fritters,  Souffle,  374 

Fritto  Misto,  42 

Frog  Soup,  19 

Frogs  Leg  Soup,  108 

Frosted  Artichokes,  178 

Frozen  Mint  Punch,  205 

Frozen  Peaches,  69 

Frozen  Spanish  Punch,  207 

Fruit  Cake,  365 

Galician  Stew,  119 
Game  Patties,  254 
Game 

Birds,  Small,  48,  159,  254 


388 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Game  (Cont.) 

Hare,  Roasted,  161 

Rabbit  in  Patapar,  160 

Rabbit,  Sauce  to  Serve  with,  168 

Rabbit,    Young,    Champagne    Style, 

339 

Rabbit,  Young,  with  Ham,  160 

Partridge  with  Sauerkraut,  338 

Partridge  Perigueux,  337 

Pheasant  with  Sauerkraut,  338 

Quail  in  Hot  Ashes,  336 

Quail,  Roast,  158 

Venison,  Fillet  of,  250 
Garlic  Soup,  112 
Garnish  for  Birds,  170 
Garnish  for  Broiled  Meats,  171 
Garnish  for  Fowls,  170,  172 
Garnish  for  Fried  Fish,  172 
Garnish  for  Roasts,  170 
Garnish  for  Veal  or  Mutton,  170 
Garnish  of  Artichokes,  171 
Gascony  Garbure,  296 
Gateau  de  Madeleine,  367 
Gazpacho,  185 
Gazpadeo,  185 
General  Fish  Sauce,  164 
Genoese  Cakes,  69 
Genoese  Pastry,  76 
Genoese  Sauce,  50 
Ginger  Sweet,  203 
Gooseberry  Preserve,  361 
Goose  in  Sauce,  335 
Granite,  Orange,  64 
Granite,  Strawberry,  65 
Grape  Tart,  373 
Green  Beans,  175 
Green  Beans,  Shelled,  259 
Green  Filling  for  Ravioli,  30 
Green  Pea  Salad,  189 
Green  Pepper  Salad,  188 
Green  Sauce,  168 
Grilled  Rashers  of  Pork,  152 
Grilled  Steak  Bordeaux,  319 
Guinea  Hen,  157 
Gypsy's  Embrace,  193 

Hamburgers,  Pork,  151 
Ham  Omelet,  142 
Ham,  Orense  Curate's,  153 
Ham,  Peas  with,  176 
Ham,  Young  Rabbit  with,  160 
Harlequin  of  Cod,  122 
Hearts,  Artichoke,  Stuffed,  59 
Herring  Salad,  303 


Honey,  Almond  and,  Nougat,  203 
Hop  Sprouts,  348 
Huevos  a  la  Mode,  135 

Ices  and  Ice  Creams 

All-fruits  Ice,  64 

Almond  Ice,  204 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream,  63 

Chocolate  Mousse,  356 

Coffee  Ice  Cream,  63 

Coffee  Parfait,  357 

Frozen  Cream   with   Pistachios,  357 

Frozen  Mint  Punch,  205 

Frozen  Peaches,  69 

Frozen  Spanish  Punch,  207 

Ice  Creams,  62 

Neapolitan  Biscuits  Glaces,  67 

Roman  Punch,  66 

Sherbet,  Peach,  66 

Sherbet,  Pineapple,  66 

Sherbet,  Pomona,  65 

Sherbet,  Rose,  204 

Sherbet,  Violet,  205 

Tutti-Frutti,  66 
Ice  Salad,  191 
Italian  Almond  Paste,  72 
Italian  Cottage  Cheese,  82 
Italian  Macaroons,  71 
Italian  Sauce,  50 
Italian  Sweet  Bread,  68 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  55 
Julienne  de  St.  Maur,  Soupe,  289 

Kidney  Beans,  Sauce  for,  169 

Kidneys  in  Sherry,  145 

Kidneys,  Veal,  with  Parmesan,  42 

Kid,  Baked,  249 

Kid,  Roast,  40,  154 

Kirsch  Cream,  355 

Lady  Fingers,  366 

Lamb  Cutlets  Milanese,  40 

Lamb,  Leg  of,  Provencal,  322 

Lamb  Trotters,  Fried,  248 

Lamb  with  Peas,  39 

Left-over  Soup  Meat,  321 

Leg  of  Lamb,   or   Mutton,   Provencal, 

322 
Lemon  Sauce,  268 
Lettuce  a  la  Nivernaise,  347 
Lettuce  Salad,  187 
Lima  Bean  Salad,  189 
Little  Beefsteaks  Pan-fried,  246 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


389 


Little  Cakes  of  Lisieux,  366 

Little  Cocked  Hats,  20 

Little  Cream  Puddings,  78 

Little  Fish  with  Lemon,  129 

Little  Venison  Pies,  252 

Liver,  Calf's,  with  Parmesan,  42 

Liver,  Pork,  with  Fennel,  44 

Liver,  Spaghetti  with,  23 

Liver,  Thick  Soup  of,  112 

Livers,  Chicken,  253 

Livers,  Chicken,  Crostini  of,  17 

Livourno  Sauce,  51 

Lobster  Bisque,  293 

Lobster  Morlaisienne,  307 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes,  344 

Macaroni,  Baked,  25 

Macaroni,  Eel  with,  37 

Macaroni  for  Festivals,  184 

Macaroni  in  Sauce,  182 

Macaroni  Pancakes,  184 

Macaroni,  Spanish,  182 

Macaroni,  Stuffed,  183 

Macaroni,  Timbale  of,  183 

Macaroons,  198,  367 

Macaroons,  Italian,  71 

Mackerel,  Flemish,  302 

Mackerel,  Grilled,  124 

Mackerel,  Small,  Grilled,  234 

Madrid  Biscuit,  200 

Maidens'  Kisses,  264 

Maraschino  Sauce,  67 

Marinated  Fish,  Fried,  235 

Marmalade,  Apple,  Souffle,  356 

Marrow  Bones,  43 

Marsala  Wine  Sauce,  79 

Mashed  Potatoes  and  Chestnuts,  347 

Matches,  370 

Matelote,  Normandy,  300 

Matelote  of  Fresh  Water  Fish,  301 

Meat  Balls,  245 

Meat,  Cooked,  in  Gravy,  149 

Meat,  Cooked,  with  Filberts,  149 

Meat  Filling,  for  Ravioli,  29 

Meat  Flowers,  247 

Meat,  Ragout  of,  149 

Meringue,  71 

Meringues,  Date,  72 

Midnight  Salad,  190 

Milanese  Croquettes,  48 

Milanese  Sauce,  51 

Milk  of  Almond  Rice  Pudding,  78 

Minced  Beef,  246 

Minestrone  Soup,  18 


Monks'  Hoods,  266 

Mousse,  Chocolate,  356 

Mrs.  Eve  Kent's  Zucchini,  54 

Musaca,  60 

Mushrooms  Bordelaise,  348 

Mushrooms,  Pickled,  17 

Mushrooms,  Scaloppine  with,  38 

Mushrooms,  Smothered,  61 

Mutton,  Garnish  for,  170 

Mutton,  Neck  of,  St.  Menehould,  324 

Mutton,  Saddle  of,  250 

Mutton  Steaks  with  Pine  Nuts,  148 

Napoleon  Puff  Potatoes,  345 

National  Beefsteak,  148 

Neapolitan  Biscuits  Glaces,  6j 

Neapolitan  Bread,  68 

Neapolitan  Cake,  70 

Neck   of  Mutton,   St.   Menehould,  324 

New  Year's  Eve  Tidbits,  285 

Nivernais  Soup,  288 

Noodles,  Soup  with,  no 

Nougats  a  la  Chantilly,  361 

Nougat,  Almond  and  Honey,  203 

Nougat,  Filbert,  202 

Nourishing  Rice,  258 

Nut  Cakes,  197 

Olive  Sauce,  166,  257 
Olives,  Chicken  with,  47 
Olla  a  la  Malaga,  119 
Omelet,  Ham,   142 
Omelet  St.  Jean,  314 
Omelet,  Sauce  for,  165 
Omelet,  Spanish,   141 
Omelet,  Whitebait,  37 
Onion  Soup,  287 
Orange  Flower  Cream,  354 
Orange  Flower  Drink,  207 
Orange  Granite,  64 
Orange  Salad,  190 
Orange,  Souffle  a  1',  356 
Orense  Curate's  Ham,  153 
Ovos  Com  Molho  do  Peixe,  244 
Ox-tongue  Baked,  150 

Painting  the  Eel  Red,  133 
Panata,  30 
Pancakes,  184 
Pancakes,  Everyday,  375 
Pancakes,  French,  375 
Pancakes,  Macaroni,  184 
Pancakes  with  Peaches,  376 
Panisses,  349 


390 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Panned  Fish,  127 
Pap,  Rice,  114 
Parisian  Salad,  350 
Parmesan  Sauce,  51 
Parsnips,  Smothered,  180 
Partridges,  Braised,  253 
Partridges  Perigueux,  337 
Partridges,  Soused,  159 
Partridge  with  Sauerkraut,  338 
Paste,  Almond  for  Cakes,  196 
Paste,  Boiled  Puff,  369 
Paste,  Puff,  369 
Paste,  Italian  Almond,  72 
Paste,  Short,  for  Pies,  373 
Pasties,  Sweet,  74 
Pastry  Dough,  76 
Pastry,  Genoese,  76 
Pastry  Twists,  199 
Patties,  Game,  254 
Patties,  Shrimp,  134 
Peach  Compote,  81,  359 
Peach  Sherbet,   65 
Peaches,  Frozen,  69 
Peaches  Royal,  358 
Peaches  with  Rice,  360 
Pears,  Compote  of,  359 
Pears  in  Anis  Jelly,  201 
Peasant  Soup,  289 
Peas  with  Ham,  176 
Peppers  Baked  Plain,  58 
Pepper,  Green,  Salad,  188 
Peppers,  Stuffed,  58,  176 
Peppery  Soup,  114 
Perigueux  Sauce,  337 
Pheasant  with  Sauerkraut,  338 
Pickled  Mushrooms,  17 
Pie,  Almond,  261 
Pie,  Pot,  143 
Pies,  Fish,  36 
Pies,  Litde  Venison,  251 
Pies,  White  Petticoat,  143 
Pineapple  Sherbet,  66 
Pine  Nut  Butter  Cakes,  197 
Pine  Nuts,  Capon  with,  47 
Pine  Nut  Tarts,  76 
Piquant  Sauce,  167 
Piquant  Soup,  114 
Pissaladeira,  14 
Plain  Spaghetti,  21 
Poached  Eggs  Burgundy,  316 
Polenta,  32-33 
Pomona  Sherbet,  65 
Pork  Biscayenne,  212 
Pork  Chops,  Fried,  249 


Pork  Chops  Milanese,  44 

Pork  Chops  with  Capers,  152 

Pork,  Grilled  Rashers  of,  152 

Pork  Hamburgers,  151 

Pork  in  Patapar,  150 

Pork  Liver  with  Fennel,  44 

Pork,  Sugared,  151 

Portuguese  Cooking  Sauce,  256 

Portuguese  Curry,  248 

Portuguese  Sauce,  256 

Portuguese  Soup,  229 

Potato  Balls,  180 

Potato  Cake,  180 

Potato  Cakes  in  Sauce,  179 

Potato  Pudding,  179 

Potato  Souffle  Normandy,  346 

Potatoes,  Eggs  in,  137 

Potatoes  in  Wine,  179 

Potatoes  Lyonnaise,  344 

Potatoes,  Mashed  with  Chestnuts,  347 

Potatoes,  Napoleon  Puff,  345 

Pot  Pie,  143 

Princes'  Chowder,  228 

Prune  or  Plum  Sauce,  269 

Praline,  Souffle,  355 

Preserve,  Gooseberry,  361 

Pudding,  Almond,  77 

Pudding,  Apple,  262 

Pudding,  Black,  77 

Pudding,  Bread,  263 

Pudding,  Chocolate,  78,  262 

Puddings,  Little  Cream,  78 

Pudding,  Rice,  263 

Pudding,  Tapioca,  79 

Pudding,  Vermicelli,  79 

Puffs  of  Wind,  192 

Pullet  Champagne  Style,  329 

Pumpkin  Soup,  18 

Punch,  Frozen  Mint,  205 

Punch,  Frozen  Spanish,  207 

Punch,  Roman,  66 

Puree,  Chestnut,  113 

Quenelles,  343 
Quail  in  Hot  Ashes,  336 
Quail,  Roast,  158 
Quilted  Cauliflower,  174 

Rabbit  in  Patapar,  160 

Rabbit,  Young,  Champagne  Style, 

Rabbit,  Young,  with  Ham,   160 

Radish  Sauce,  166 

Ragout,  114 

Ragout  of  Meat,  149 


339 


ral 


ofSv^ 


mm 


:mffi 


rzJr 


..  *JBftilfe>HK 


531 

'USE 

■ 


■ 


mm 

■ 

max 


H    B9     BK 


,5' 

IHH  ;i!»  I '  BH I B . 

Hi      '  "•  HS2 


I  ■■ 


•/.«" 


■ 


f 


■ 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


391 


Ragout,  Vegetable,  349 

Raisins,  Almonds  and,  202 

Raisin  and  Chestnut  Compote,  80 

Raspberries  Romanoff,  358 

Ravioli,  29 

Ray  with  Almond  Sauce,  130 

Red  Wine  Sauce,  268 

Rice,  Birds  Smothered  in,  48 

Rice,  Catalan  Style,  181 

Rice,  Nourishing,  258 

Rice  Pap,  141 

Rice,  Peaches  with,  360 

Rice  Pudding,  78,  263 

Rice  Valencia  Style,  156 

Rice  with  Codfish,  231 

Rice  with  Trimmings,  182 

Rice  with  Vegetables,  181 

Risotto,  31 

Risotto  Milanese  Style,  31 

Roast  Beef  Spanish  Style,  146 

Roast  Kid,  40,  154 

Roast  Quail,  158 

Roast  Shad,  121 

Roast  Turkey,  157 

Roasted  Chestnuts,  80 

Roasted  Hare,  161 

Roasted  Small  Game  Birds,  159 

Roasts,  Garnish  for,  172 

Rolls,  Veal,  325 

Roman  Punch,  66 

Rose  Sherbet,  204 

Rouen  Cream  Tarts,  370 

Royal  Soup,  106 

Rum  Cream,  354 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  250 
Sago  Wine  Sauce,  79 
Salmon  Pancake,  131 
Salads 

Anchovy,  15 

Baked  Eggplant,  212 

Chicken,  190 

Green  Pea,  189 

Green  Pepper,  188 

Herring,  303 

Ice,  191 

Lettuce,  187 

Lima  Bean,  189 

Midnight,  190 

Orange,  190 

Parisian,  350 

String  Bean,  188 

Tomato,  188 

Vegetable,  189 


Salt  Codfish,  Baked,  239 

Salt  Codfish  in  Sauce,  239 

Salt  Codfish  with  Honey,  124 

Sardine  Pie,  238 

Sardines,  238 

Sartignade,  306 

Sauces 

Agro  Dolce,  50 

Almond,  163 

Bercy,  314 

Bordelaise,  313 

Brown,  167 

Catalan,  165 

Chives,  341 

Cieam,  164 

Fish,  164 

for  Baked  Fish,  164 

for  Birds,  Pigeons,  etc.,  167 

for  Cocido,  116 

for  Fish  and  Sea  Food  Salads,  16 

for  Grilled  Fish,  163 

for  Kidney  Beans,  169 

for  Meats,  165 

for  Omelet,  165 

for  Rabbit,  168 

for  Stew,  166 

Genoese,  50 

Green,  168 

Hard-boiled  Egg,  163 

Italian,  50 

Livourno,  51 

Milanese,  51 

Olive,  166,  257 

Parmesan)  51 

Perigueux,  337 

Piquant,  167 

Radish,  166 

Sorrel,  for  Fish,  243 

Spanish,  162 

Tomato,  52,  53,  169,  170 

Venetian,  52 

White,  168 
Sauces,  Sweet 

Chocolate,  268 

Lemon,  268 

Maraschino,  67 

Marsala,  79 

Prune  or  Plum,  269 

Red  Wine,  268 

Sago  Wine,  79 
Sauerkraut,  Alsatian,  338 
Sauerkraut,  Pheasant  with,  338 
Sausage  Bread,  144 
Savarin  Cake,  365 


392 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


Savoy  Sponge  Cake,  363 

Scaloppine  in  Gravy,  38 

Scaloppine  with  Mushrooms,  38 

Scaloppine  with  Vegetables,  39 

Scaloppine  with  Zucchini,  38 

Scallops,  308 

Scallops  Style  of  Nantes,  308 

Scrambled  Eggs,  140 

Sea  Urchins,  310 

Seed  Broth,  106 

Shad,  Roast,  121 

Shelled  Green  Beans,  259 

Sherbet,  Peach,  65 

Sherbet,  Pomona,  65 

Sherbet,  Pineapple,  66 

Sherbet,  Rose,  205 

Sherbet,  Violet,  205 

Sherry  Cream,  204 

Shirred  Eggs,  Dijon,  313 

Shrimp  and  Flounder  Mayonnaise,  242 

Shrimp    and    Oysters,    with    Macaroni, 

241 
Shrimp  Croquettes,  240 
Shrimp  Patties,  134 
Shrimp  Soup,  227 
Shrimps,  Browned,  241 
Shrimps  Fried  in  Batter,  240 
Sicilian  Eggplant,  57 
Sicilian  Fish  Fillets,  35 
Sighs,  192 

Sighs  of  a  Nun,  266 
Small  Brioches,  263 
Small  Cakes,  364 
Small  Fish  Breaded,  128 
Small  Game  Birds,  159 
Smothered  Brook  Trout,  126 
Smothered  Mushrooms,  61 
Smothered  Parsnips,  180 
Smothered  Zucchini,  55 
Snails  Burgundy  Style,  310 
Snow  Soup,  112 
Spice  Cake,  363 
Sole,  Filet  de,  Marguery,  299 
Sole  in  Shrimp  Sauce,  236 
Sole  Normande,  298 
Sole  Sauce,  243 
Souffle  a  l'Orange,  356 
Souffle,  Apple  Marmalade,  256 
Souffle  au  Chocolat,  356 
Souffle,  Corn  Meal,  73 
Souffle  Fritters,  374 
Souffle,  Farina,  73 
Souffle,  Plain,  315 
Souffle,  Potato,  Normandy,  346 


Souffle,  Praline,  355 

Souffle,  Therese's  Spinach,  316 

Souffle,  Vanilla,  355 

Soups 

Almond,  113 

Basque,  209 

Bisque  of  Poultry  or  Birds,  292 

Brittany  Crust,  292 

Chestnut  Puree,  114 

Chicken  Soup,  226 

Cold  Milk,  107 

Crab,  290 

Crayfish  Bisque,  292 

Dry  Soup,  229 

Economical,    no 

Fifteen -Minute,  109 

Fish,  108 

Frog,  19 

Frogs  Leg,  108 

Galician  Stew,  119 

Garlic  Soup,  in 

Julienne  Soup,  288 

Liver,  112 

Lobster  Bisque,  293 

Minestrone,  18 

Nivernaise,  288 

Onion,  287 

Thousand  Infants'  Soup,  226 

Peasant,  289 

Peppery,   114 

Piquant,   114 

Princes'  Chowder,  228 

Pumpkin,   18 

Ragout,  114 

Royal,  106 

Seed  Broth,  106 

Shrimp  Bisque,  293 

Shrimp  Soup,  227 

Snow  Soup,  112 

Thick  Soup  of  Liver,  112 

Vegetable,   no 

with  Noodles,  no 

without  an  Equal,  289 
Soup  Meat,  Left-over,  322 
Soused  Partridge,  159 
Spaghetti  Florentine,  24 
Spaghetti  Neapolitan  Style,  22 
Spaghetti,  Plain,  21 
Spaghetti  St.  Remo,  24 
Spaghetti  with  Anchovies,  22,  23 
Spaghetti  with  Butter,  22 
Spaghetti  with  Liver,  23 
Spaghetti  with  Tomato  Sauce,  23 
Spanish  Beans,  178 


ENGLISH  INDEX 


393 


Spanish  Beefsteak,  147 
Spanish  Cream  Filling,  193 
Spanish  Cream  Puffs,  193 
Spanish  Dressing,  187 
Spanish  Macaroni,  182 
Spanish  Omelet,  141 
Spanish  Punch,  Frozen,  207 
Spanish  Sauce,  162 
Spanish  Squid,  132 
Spanish  Stew,  115 
Special  Meat  Sauce,  165 
Spice  Cake,  364 
Spinach,  Florentine,  59 
Spinach  with  Sardines,  259 
Spring  Chicken,  Fried,  46 
Squid   a  la  Catalana,    132 
Squid,  Spanish,  132 
Stew,  Fishwife's,  233 
Stew,  Spanish,  115 
Stew  with  Wheat,  118 
Stingaree  with  Capers,  306 
Stock  for  Boiling  Fish,  122 
Strawberry  Granite,  65 
Strawberry  Tart,  373 
Straws,  Almond,  195 
String  Bean  Salad,  188 
String  Beans  Lyonnaise,  344 
Stuffed  Eggs,  146 
Stuffed  Macaroni,  183 
Stuffed  Peppers,  58,  176 
Stuffed  Salmon,  234 
Stuffed  Squash  Blossoms,  348 
Stuffing  for  Vegetables,  176 
Sugared  Chestnuts,  80 
Sugared  Pork,  151 
Summer  Squash,  258 
Sweetbreads  Dauphiny  Style,  328 
Sweet  Dumplings,  72 
Sweet  Pasties,  74 
Sweet  Ring  Cakes,  197 
Sweets  of  Paradise,  194 
Syrup  of  Granada,  196 
Syrup  of  Orange,  204 

Tagliarini,  26 
Tapioca  Pudding,  79 
Tart,  Almond,  371 
Tart,  Apple,  of  Artois,  372 
Tart,  Grape,  373 
Tart,  Strawberry,  373 
Tartlets,  Cheese,  371 
Tarts,  Christmas,  195 
Tarts  in  Nests,  195 
Tarts,  Pine  Nut,  76 


Tarts,  Rouen  Cream,  370 
Therese's  Spinach  Souffle,  316 
Thick  Soup  of  Crecy  Carrots,  291 
Thousand  Flakes,  370 
Thrice-Cooked  Chicken,  44 
Tidbits,  New  Year's  Eve,  285 
Timbale  of  Macaroni,  183 
Tinder  Boxes,  264 
Tomato  Salad,  188 
Tomato  Sauce,  52,  169,  170 
Tomatoes,  Eggs  with,  138 
Tongue,  Ox,  Baked,  150 
Tortellini  Bologna  Style,  21 
Towers,  200 
Tunny  in  Casserole,  130 
Tutti-Frutti,  66 
Tutti-Frutti  Conserve,  81 
Turkey,  Roast,  157 
Twists,  Pastry,  199 

Vanilla  Custard,  353 

Vanilla  Souffle,  355 

Veal,  Garnish  for,  170 

Veal  Kidneys  with  Parmesan,  42 

Veal  Rolls,  375 

Veal  Saute,  326 

Veal  with  Asparagus,  144 

Vegetable  Ragout,  349 

Vegetable  Salad,  190 

Vegetable  Soup,  no 

Vegetables,  Stuffing  for,  176 

Venetian  Sauce,  52 

Venison,  Fillet  of,  250 

Venison  Pies,  Little,  251 

Vermicelli,  26 

Vermicelli  Pudding,  79 

Violet  Sherbet,  205 

Vol-au-vent  a  la  Toulouse,  342 

White  Wine  Sauce,  168 
Whitebait,  Eel,  131 
Whitebait  Omelet  alia  Napoli,  37 
White  Petticoat  Pies,  143 
Whitebait  Soup,  290 
Whiting,  Fillet  of,  35 
Wine  Sauce,  Sago,  79 
Wonders,  374 

Young  Rabbit,  160,  339 

Zucchini,  Enrico's,  54 
Zucchini  Fried  in  Deep  Fat,  55 
Zucchini,  Mrs.  Eve  Kent's,  54 
Zucchini,  Scaloppine  with,  38 
Zucchini,  Smothered,  55 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


Abadejo  con  Nata,  123 

Abobora  de  Agua,  258 

Agnello  con  Piselli,  39 

Aigo-Sau,  301 

Aioli,  350 

Albondigas  Empapeladas  de  Cerdo, 

Alcachofas  Escardiadas,  178 

Alcachofas  Rellenas  Fritas,  177 

Alfajor  Moreno,  203 

Allumettes,  370 

Almendra  Helado,  204 

Almendra  Pasta  Para  Tortas,  196 

Almendras  con  Pasas,  202 

Almendrados,   198 

Almibar  de  Granada,  196 

Alosa  Asada,  121 

Anchoade,  283 

Angulas  Frita,  131 

Anolini  alia  Parmiagana,  19 

Antipasto,  14 

Apio  en  Salsa,  175 

Arlequin  de  Merluza,  122 

Arropa,  207 

Arroz  a  Banda,  182 

Arroz  a  Catalan,  181 

Arroz  con  Polio,  154 

Arroz  de  Substancia,  258 

Arroz  con  Vegetals,  181 

Atun  en  Olla,  130 

Aves  Fritas,  254 


Baba,  365 

Bacalao  Assado,  231 
Bacalao  Fresco  com  Arroz, 
Bacalao  con  Miel,  124 
Bacalao  em  Molho,  239 
Balas  de  Carne,  245 
Beignets  d' Acacia,  374 
Beignets  a  la  Alliance,  374 
Beijinhos  de  Moca,  264 
Besugo  al  Jugo,  125 


231 


Besugo  Excelso,   125 
Bifes  con  Pinones,   148 
Bifes  de  Vacca  Panados,  246 
Biftec  Nacional,  148 
Bindelho,  248 
150       Biscotto  di  Mandorle,  71 
Biscuits  a  la  Cuillere,  366 
Bisque  aux  Crevettes,  293 
Bisque  aux  Ecrevisses,  292 
Bisque  aux  Homard,  293 
Bisque  aux  Volaille,  293 
Bizcochos  de  Madrid,  200 
Boeuf  en  Daube,  320 
Bceuf  a  la  Mode,  320 
Bolo  com  Amendoas,  260 
Bolo  para  Vinho,  260 
Bonne-Bouche  d'une  Bonne  Annee,  285 
Bouchees  de  Dames,  367 
Bouillabaisse,  294 
Bouilli,  321 
Brioche,  362 
Brioche  a  la  Conde,  363 
Brazo  de  Gitano,  193 
Budino  di  Mandorle,  77 
Budino  Nero,  77 
Bunuelos,   199 
Bufiuelos  de  Patatas,  180 
Bunuelos  de  Viento,   192 

Cabrito  Asado,  154 
Cabrito  Assado,  249 
Cailles   a   la   Cendre,   336 
Calamares  Espagnol,  132 
Calamares  con  Guisantes  Catalana,  132 
Caldeirada  a  Pescadora,  233 
Caldeirada  de  Principes,  228 
Caldo  Gallego,   118 
Caldo  de  Ronas,  108 
Caldo  Semilla,  106 
Camarao  e  Ostras  com  Macarrao,  241 
395 


396 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


Camaroes  Fritos  em  Massa  dc  Vinhee, 

240 
Camaroes  Torados,  241 
Cambaros,  133 
Canard  en  Chemise,  333 
Caneton  a  la  Bigarde,  334 
Cappelletti  alia  Romagna,  20 
Capuchinos,  266 
Carne  con  Avellanas,  149 
Carne  de  Cerdo  en  Duke,  151 
Carne  de  Cerdo  en  Tortilla,  151 
Carne  del  Cocido  en  Salsa,  149 
Carnes,   143 
Carni,  38 

Cassoulet  de  Castelnaudary,  340 
Cassoulet  a  la  Languedocienne,  340 
Castagnaccio,  68 
Cavolfiore  alia  Romagna,  56 
Caza  Menor  Asada,   159 
Cepes  a  la  Bordelaise,  348 
Cerises  a  l'Eau-de-Vie,  360 
Chanfaina,  112 

Chateaubriant  a  la  Espanola,  147 
Chirivias  Suffocado,  180 
Chocolat  au  Rhum,  377 
Chou  a  la  Creme,  368 
Choucroute  Alsacienne,  338 
Chuletas  de  Cerdo  con  Alcaparras,  152 
Coca  de  Sobreasada,  144 
Cocido  Espanol,  115 
Codornices  Asadas,  158 
Coliflor  Frita,  174 
Composto  di  Frutta,  80 
Compota  de  Manzanas,  201 
Compote  de  Peches  au  Marasquin,  359 
Compote  de  Poires,  359 
Condimento  Espanol,  187 
Conejo  Empapelado,  160 
Confitures  de  Groseilles  de  Bar,  361 
Consomme,  294 

Consomme  a  la  Monte  Carlo,  296 
Consomme  Talleyrand,  295 
Coquilles  St.  Jacques,  308 
Coquilles   Saint-Jacques  a   la   Nantaise, 

308 
Costelletas  de  Porco  Fritas,  249 
Cous  de  Mouton  Sainte  Menehould,  324 
Crema  Para  Bizcochos,  196 
Creme    Bachique,    354 
Creme  au  Caramel,  353 
Crema  Espanola,    193 
Crema  de  Vino  de  Jerez,  204 
Creme  a  la  Fleur  d'Oranger,  354 
Creme  Glacee,  aux  Pistaches,  357 


Creme  a  la  Vanille,  353 
Crepes,  375 

Crepes  a  la  Marron,  376 
Crepes  de  Menage,  375 
Crepes  a  la  Peche,  376 
Croquettes  de  Camaroes,  240 
Crostini  di  Fegatini  de  Polio,  17 

Darioles,  352 

Desserts,  352 

Dolci,  62 

Duke  de  Avellanas,  202 

Duke  de  Castana,  202 

Duke  del  Paraiso,   194 

Dolce  Ravioli,  74 

Eclairs,  369 

Ecrevisses  a  la  Bordelaise,  307 
Empanadas  de  Camarones,  134 
Empadinhas  de  Veado,  252 
Ensalada  de  Habas,  189 
Ensalada  de  Habas  Verde,  188 
Ensalada  Habas  Verde,  189 
Ensalada  Helada,  191 
Ensalada  de  Lechuga  Fino,  187 
Ensalada  de  Naranjas,  190 
Ensalada  de  Noche,  190 
Ensalada  de  Tomate,  188 
Ensalada  de  Pimiento  Verde,  188 
Ensalada  Polluello,  190 
Ensaladas,   187 
Ensaladas  de  Vegetals,  189 
Entrecote  a  la  Bordelaise,  319 
Escargots    de    Bourgogne,   310 
Esconbro  en  Parillas,  124 
Esparrago  de  Modo  Andalusia,  173 
Esparragos  en  Manteca,  174 
Esparragos  en  Salsa,  173 
Espinafre  con  Sardinhas,  259 
Estofado  de  Coliflor,  174 

Favas,  259 
Favo  Asado,  157 
Fiches  alia  Romana,  81 
Figados  de  Gallinhas,  253 
Filet  de  Sole  Marguery,  299 
Filete  de  Veado,  250 
Finnochio,  56 

Fleurs  de  Courge  Farcie,  348 
Flor  de  Carne  Estufada,  247 
Fondu,  317 
Formaggio,  82 
Framboises  Romanoff,  358 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


397 


Fricase  de  Polios,  155 

Fritada  de  Huevos,  140 

Fritadas  de  Huevos,   140 

Fritella  di  Castagna,  74 

Fritelle  di  Polenta,  75 

Fritto  Misto,  42 

Fritura  de  Frango,  253 

Fritura  de  Maos  de  Carneiro,  248 

Galletas  de  Patatas,  180 

Gallinaza  de  Indias,  157 

Gateau  d'Amandes,  371 

Gateau  de  Madeleine,  367 

Gateaux  de  Lisieux,  366 

Gazpacho,  185 

Gazapo  con  Jamon,  160 

Gelato  de  Tutti-Frutti,  64 

Gigot  en  Potpourri  a  la  Provencale,  322 

Gnocchi  Dolci,  72 

Granita  d'Arancia,  64 

Granita  di  Fragola,  65 

Guisado,  114 

Guisado  de  Carne,  149 

Guarnicion  de  Alcachofas,  171 

Guarnicion  Andaluza,  172 

Guarnicion  Para  Aves,  170 

Guarnicion  Catalonia,  172 

Guarnicion  Madrilena,   172 

Guarnicion  Para  Polios,  170 

Guarnicion    Para    Ternero    o    Carnero, 

I7°.  . 
Guarnicion  Valenciano,  171 

Guisantes  con  Jamon,  176 

Habas  Espanas,  178 

Haricots  Verts  a  la  Lyonnaise,  344 

Hinchares,  193 

Homard  a  la  Morlaisienne,  307 

Horchata,  206 

Hors  d'GEuvres,  283 

Huevos,  135 

Huevos  en  Ajillo,  137 

Huevos  con  Ajo  e  Comino,  139 

Huevos  con  Alcahofas,  139 

Huevos  con  Coles,  138 

Huevos  Guarnecidos,  136 

Huevos  Hellenos,  140 

Huevos  a  la  Mode,  135 

Huevos  a  la  Moderna,  135 

Huevos  en  Salsa  Negra,  136 

Huevos  en  Patatas,  137 

Huevos  con  Queso,  138 

Huevos  en  Toledo,   136 

Huevos  con  Tomato,  138 


Jamon  del  Cura  de  Sacra  de  Orense, 

153 
Jarabe  de  Naranja,  204 
Jets  de  Houblons,  348 
Judias  Verdes,  175 

La  Garbure  Gasconne,  296 

Laitues  a  la  Nivernaise,  347 

Lapereau  Saute  au  Champagne,  339 

Le  Biscuit  de  Savoie,  363 

Legumbres,  173 

Legumes,  258 

Legumi,  54 

Lengua  de  Vaca  Asada,  150 

Le  Pain  Dausee,  284 

Liebre  Asada,  161 

Linguado  em  Molho  de  Camarao,  236 

Lonjas  de  Cerdo  Esparrilladas,  152 

Macarrones  Espanol,  182 
Macarrones  al  Jugo,  182 
Macarrones  a  la  Sausona,  183 
Macarrones    de    Vigilia    a    Divertideos, 

184 
Mantecado  de  Pinon,  197 
Matelote  Champagnoise,  301 
Matelote  Normande,  300 
Mayonnaise   de   Camarao   e   Linguado, 

242 
Melange  de  Legumes,  349 
Meluza  en  Salsa,  122 
Menestra,  143 
Meringue,  71 
Merveilles,  373 
Mille-Feuillcs,  370 
Mingolillos,   197 
Mirlitons  de  Rouen,  370 
Molho  de  Azedas  Para  Peixe,  243 
Molho  de  Azeitonas,  257 
Molho  de  Chocolate,  268 
Molho  Estufado,  256 
Molho  de  Limao,  268 
Molho  Portuguez,  256 
Molho  de  Vinho  Tinto,  268 
Molhos,  256 
Molhos  Dolces,   268 
Morue  en  Brandade,  305 
Mousse  de  Chocolat,  356 
Mousse  au  Kirsch,  355 
Mousse  au  Rhum,  354 
Musaca,  60 

Nougats  a  la  Chantilly,  361 


398 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


CEufs,  312 

CEufs  Bercy,  313 

CEufs  en  Cocotte  Bordelaise,  312 

CEufs  en  Cocotte  a  la  Dijon,  313 

CEufs  Perigord,  312 

CEufs  Poches  a  la  Bourguignonne,  316 

Oie  en  Daube,  335 

Olla  a  la  Malaga,  117 

Olla  Pudrida,  115 

Olla  con  Trigo,  118 

Omelet  St.  Jean,  314 

Osso  Bucco,  43 

Oursins,  310 

Ovos  a  Portugueza,  244 

Ovos  com  Molho  do  Peixe,  244 

Pain  d'Epices,  363 

Pallilos  de  Almendras,  195 

Panata,  30 

Pan  Fritura  con  Ajo,  185 

Pane  di  Genovese,  69 

Panettone  di  Natale,  69 

Panisses,    349 

Papilla  de  Arroz,  114 

Parfait  au  Cafe,  357 

Pastel  de  Merluza,  123 

Pastelillos  Saboyanos,   143 

Pastelinhos  de  Caca,  254 

Patatas  con  Vino,  179 

Pate  Brisee,  372 

Pate-a-Chou,  368 

Pate  Feuillettee,  369 

Pate  a  Frire,  373 

Peches  a  la  Conde,  360 

Peches  a  la  Royale,  358 

Peixe,   231 

Peixe  Assado,  232 

Peixe  Frita  de  Escabeche,  235 

Peperoni  Ripieni,  58 

Peras  de  Mallorca,  201 

Perdizes   Estufadas,   253 

Perdreau  a  la  Perigueux,  337 

Perdreaux  ou  Faisan  a  la  Choucroute, 

338 
Pescada  a  Lusitana,  232 
Pescadillas   en   Caldo   Empanado,    128 
Pescadillas  Fritas,   129 
Pescadillas  con  Limon,  129 
Pescados,  121 
Pescado  en  Adobo,  129 
Pescado  en  Casuella  Catalana,  127 
Pescado  Frito  y  en  Salsa,  128 
Pescado  Guisado,  126 
Perdiz  de  Escabeche,  159 


Pesce,  35 

Petiscos,  264 

Petits  Pots  de  Creme,  353 

Pets  de  Nonne,  374 

Picada,  246 

Pimentos  Estofados,   176 

Pintarrajas  a  Anquilas,  133 

Pissaladeira,  14 

Polenta,  32-33 

Polio  a  la  Espanol,  154 

Polio  alia  Marengo,  45 

Polio  alia  Olive,  47 

Polio  a  la  Valenciana,  156 

Polio  al  Vino  Bianco,  46 

Pommes  a  l'Artois,  372 

Pommes  au  Beurre,  359 

Pommes  Flammantes,  360 

Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Lyonnaise,  344 

Pommes  de  Terre  Souffles,  345 

Ponce  alia  Romana,  66 

Ponche  de  Menta  Helado,  205 

Ponche  Espanol,  207 

Potaje,  no 

Potage  Paysanne,  289 

Poularde  au  Beurre  d'Ecrivisses,  331 

Poularde  a  la  Languedocienne,  328 

Poulet     a  la  Champenoise,  329 

Poulet  a  la  Mode  de  Beaune,  333 

Poulet  Saute  Bordelaise,  331 

Pratos  de  Carne,  245 

Pudim  de  Arroz,  263 

Pudim  de  Chocolate,  262 

Pudim  de  Macas,  262 

Pudim  de  Pao,  263 

Pudin  de  Patatas,  179 

Puchero,  114 

Puree  Crecy,  291 

Puree  de  Pommes  et  Marrons,  347 

Quadrado  de  Carneiro,  250 
Qualquer  Peixe  Ensopado,  236 
Quatre-Quarts,  363 
Quenelles,  343 

Raie  aux  Capres,  306 

Ravioli,  29 

Raya  con  Nueces,  130 

Refrescos,   206 

Refresco  Flor  de  Naranja,  207 

Relleno  Para  Vegetals,  176 

Rinones  al   Jerez,   145 

Ris  de  Veau  Dauphinoise,  327 

Risotto,  31 

Risotto  alia  Milanese,  32 

Rosbif  Espano  Pizado,  146 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


399 


Roscoqs  de  Jeringas,  199 
Rosquillas,    197 

Salade  Parisienne,  351 

Salsas,  162 

Salsa  de  Aceitunas,  166 

Salsas  Asado  al  Horno,  164 

Salsa  para  Aves  Asadas,  167 

Salsa  Blanca,  168 

Salsa  de  Catalana,   165 

Salsa  para  el  Cocido,  116 

Salsa  de  Crema,  164 

Salsa  Espanola,  162 

Salsa  Especial,  165 

Salsa  de  Huevo  Duro,  163 

Salsa  Para  Judias  Verdes,  169 

Salsa  Para  Liebre,  168 

Salsa  Nogado,  163 

Salsa  Para  Pescado  en  Parillas,  163 

Salsa  Para  Pescados,  164 

Salsa  Picante,  167 

Salsa  de  Rabanos,   166 

Salsa  Rubia,  167 

Salsa  de  Tomate,  169-170 

Salsa  Para  Tortilla  de  Huevos,  165 

Salsa  Verde,  168 

Salmao  Recheado,  234 

Sarda  Fresca  Grelhada,  234 

Sardinhas,  238 

Sartagnade,  306 

Sauce  Bercy,  314 

Sauce  Bordelaise,  313 

Sauce  Civette,  341 

Sauce  Perigueux,  337 

Savarin,  365 

Scaloppine  con  Funghi,  38 

Scaloppine  al   Sugo,   38 

Scaloppine  con  Zucchini,  38 

Sesos  de  Ternera,   145 

Sobremesas,  260 

Sorbete  de  Rosa,  204 

Sorbretto  di  Ananasso,  66 

Sorbetto  di  Pesche,  65 

Sorbete  de  Violets,  205 

Souffle  au  Chocolat,  356 

Souffle  aux  Epinards  a  la  Therese,  316 

Souffle  a  l'Orange,  355 

Souffle  de  Pommes  a  la  Normande,  356 

Souffle  de  Pommes  a  la  Normande,  346 

Souffle  Praline,  355 

Souffle  a  la  Vanille,  355 

Soufflet  di  Farina,  73 

Soupe  aux  Crabes,  290 

Soupe  Julienne  de  St.  Maur,  288 


Soupe  a  la  Nivernaise,  288 

Soupe  de  Poutine  a  la  Nicoise,  290 

Soupe   a   l'Oignon,   287 

Spaghetti  al  Burro,  22 

Spaghetti  Florentine,  24 

Spaghetti  alia  Napoli,  22 

Spaghetti  St.  Remo,  24 

Sonhos,  264 

Sopas,  226 

Sopas  y  Cocidos,  106 

Sopa  de  Ajo,  in 

Sopa  de  Almendras,  113 

Sopa  de  Amendoas,  227 

Sopa  de  Camarao,  227 

Sopa  de  Castafias,  114 

Sopa  al  Cuarto  de  Hora,  109 

Sopa  Economico,  no 

Sopa  de  Gallinha,  226 

Sopa  de  Leche  Frio,  107 

Sopa  de  Mil  Infantes,  226 

Sopa  de  Nieve,  112 

Sopa  de  Pastas,  no 

Sopa  de  Pez,  108 

Sopa  Picante,  114 

Sopa  Pimentado,  114 

Sopa  a  Portugueza,  229 

Sopa  Real,  106 

Sopa  Secca,  229 

Suspiros,   192 

Suspiros  de  Freira,  266 

Talmouses,  371 
Tarbinas,  200 
Tarte  aux  Fraises,  373 
Ternera  con  Esparragos,  144 
Timbal  de  Macarrones,  183 
Torres,  200 

Torrijas  de  Almendras,  202 
Torrijas  de  Nata,  261 
Torrijas  de  Pan,  185 
Torta  de   Amendoa,   261 
Tortas  de  Camadas,  195 
Tortas  Finas  de  Navidad,  195 
Torta  di  Genovese,  76 
Torta  col  Pinoli,  76 
Torta  de  Sardinhas,  238 
Tortellini  alia  Bolognese,  21 
Tortilla  Guisada,  179 
Tortilla  de  Huevos  Espanol,  141 
Tortilla  de  Jamon,  142 
Tortilla  con  Macarrones,  184 
Tortilla  de  Salmon,  131 
Toucinho  do  Ceo,  265 


400 

Truchias  Obscuras,  126 
Turrones  con  Miel,  203 
Tutti-Frutti,  66 


Um  Prato  de  Peixe  Especial,  237 
Vaca  a  Estilo  de  Toledon,  146 


FOREIGN  INDEX 


Veau  Roulee,  324 

Veau  Saute  Chasseur,  326 

Viands,  319 

Vol-au-Vent  a  la  Toulouse,  342 

Zucchini  Fritto  alia  Enrico,  54 
Zuppa  di  Ranocchi,  19 
Zuppa  di  Zucca,  18 


University  of 
Connecticut 

Libraries 


o 


^ 


\ 


Or, 


*>is3t^ 


y 


