ncBMBe 


nmrntratmememmssBemm 


Home 
CooK  BooK 


I  I 


Class  /  /7/cS 


Book    T^"^' 


Copyright  N" I 


r 


COPYI^IGMT  DEPOSIT. 


EVERY    WOMAN'S 

Home  Cook  Book 

An  Economical,  Practical  Guide 

FOR  THE 

TWENTIETH  CENTURY  HOUSEKEEPER 

CONTAINING 

A  Most  Complete  Collection  of  the  Best 
Culinary  Receipts  with  Full  Instruct- 
ions for  Successfully  Using  Them 


COMPILED  BY 

FLORENCE  CROSBY  PARSONS 


The  L.  W.  Walter  Company 
PUBLISHERS 

Chicago 


Copyright  1911 

BY 

THE  L.  W.  WALTER  COMPANY 
Chicago 


©CI.A3()o939 


PUBLISHER'S  PREFACE 


In  offering  the  American  Housewife  and  Mother,  this  New  Receipt 
Book,  we  believe  we  are  filling  a  demand.  There  are  many  works  on  this 
subject,  but  most  of  them  contain  receipts  which  are  too  expensive  for  the 
average  home,  and  so  this  practical  and  economical  guide  will  surely  be 
welcomed.  We  have  not  attempted  display;  our  only  aim  being  to  furnish 
wide  counsel. 

It  is  a  fact  that  there  is  a  recognized  need  of  a  new  book  treating  on 
Scientific  and  Hygienic  Cooking;  one  that  will  prove  an  aid  to  health 
and  happiness  in  each  household:  hence,  the  production  of  this  volume. 
It  has  been  prepared  with  great  care.  Every  recipe  has  been  tried  and 
tested^  and  can  be  relied  upon  as  one  of  the  best  of  its  kind. 

It  embodies  several  original  and  commendable  features,  among  which 
may  be  mentioned  a  menu  for  each  meal  of  the  year,  also  for  special 
occasions,  thus  covering  all  varieties  of  seasonable  food.  A  department 
has  been  given  to  the  uses  of  "The  Chafing  Dish,"  that  useful  adjunct  to 
the  lunch  table,  the  small  evening  gathering,  or  light  housekeeping. 
A  treatise  on  Hygienic  and  Scientific  Cooking.  "Care  of  the  Sick," 
"Marketing,"  "Carving,"  and  all  departments  of  housekeeping  have 
received  their  due  share  of  attention.  The  convenient  classification  and 
arrangement  of  topics  and  the  simplified  method  of  explanation  in  pre- 
paring the  article  in  the  order  of  manipulation  enables  the  most  inex- 
perienced to  clearly  comprehend  it. 

Economical  and  modern  methods  of  living  have  been  paramount  in 
the  compiler's  mind  in  designing  and  preparing  this  work,  consequently, 
we  have  a  trusty  guide  for  those  plucky  housewives  who  must  clothe,  feed 
and  house  their  families  on  a  moderate  allowance.  To  these  housekeepers, 
these  home-builders,  it  is  that  such  books  as  this  are  dedicated,  and  among 
these  it  is  that  they  find  their  welcome.  Not  sought  in  the  home  where 
there  is  no  cook  book  ,for  there  their  value  is  unktiozun;  but  in  the  home  where 
there  are  many  such  guides  it  is  that  each  nezo  arrival  comes  as  a  herald 
of  sojucthing  better  and  more  helpful  in  the  realm  of  cookery .  And  meet 
it  is  that  all  possible  help  be  given  to  those  who  feed  our  bodies,  for 
thereby  they  strengthen  and  uplift  our  souls,  also. 

Says  Haryot  Holt  Cahoon:  "Ask  a  woman  what  cooking  means.  It 
means  the  patience  of  Job,  and  the  persistence  of  the  PiJgrim  Fathers. 
It  means  the  endurance,  the  long-suffering,  and  the  martyrdom  of  Joan 
of  Arc.  It  means  the  steaming,  and  the  stewing,  and  the  baking,  and 
the  broiling,  thrice  daily,  springs,  summers,  autumns,  and  winters,  year 
after  year,  decade  following  decade.  It  means  perspiration,  despera- 
tion and  resignation.  It  means  a  crown  and  a  harp,  and  a  clear  title  to 
an  estate  in  heaven.  From  her  judgment  and  reason  tlie  cook  must 
evolve  triumphs  that  depend  upon  salt  and  pepper,  sugar  and  herbs. 
She  must  know  how  soon  and  how  long  and  how  much  and  how  often. 
She  must  know  quality  and  quantity  and  cost.  She  must  scr\'e  the 
butcher  and  the  baker  and  the  candlestick-maker.  Then  she  must  rise 
above  it  all  and  be  a  lady — a  loaf-giver." 

To  be  able  to  cope  with  difficulties,  should  the  necessity  arise,  is  the 
duty  of  most  women.  Nothing  will  enable  them  to  do  so  more  certainly 
than  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  general  principles  and  methods  and 
the  carrying  out  of  these  in  the  preparation  of  the  homeliest  meal. 

THE  PUBLISHERS. 


"  Man  cannot  live  by  bread  alone,** 
He  wants  his  menu  good. 
He  wants  a  wife  who's  not  above 
Preparing  dainty  food. 

The  way,  then,  to  the  hearts  of  men 

(turn's  not  the  only  sinner) 
!s  by  a  cleanly,  well-set  board, 

And  by  a  weH-cooked  dmner. 

'*  Good  cooks  are  born,  not  made,"  they  say. 
The  saymg's  nK)St  untrue. 
Hard  trymg,  and  these  prime  recipes 
WM  make  good  cooks  of  you. 

E.  B.  C. 


THE  mottx)  of  the  New  York  Cooking  Academy  is  :  •<  Since 
we  must  eat  to  live,  let  us  prepare  our  food  in  such  a  min- 
ner  that  our  physical,  intellectual  and  moral  capacities  may  be  ex- 
tended as  far  as  desired  by  our  Creator,"  and  with  this  object  in 
mind,  bread,  as  the  "staff  of  life,"  will  be  first  considered,  amd 
especial  attention  given  to  its  great  variety  and  the  necesaary 
processes  through  which  it  passes  in  preparation  for  usa 

Flour  made  from  wheat,  and  meal  from  oats  and  Indian  com, 
are  rich  in  the  waste-repairing  elements,  starch  and  albumen,  and 
man  is  necessarily  dependent  upon  them  to  a  degree  much  greater 
than  commonly  supposed. 

Wheat  and  flour  contain  gluten  in  diflferent  proportion  to  the 
many  varieties.  Flour  in  which  gluten  abounds  will  absorb  more 
liquid  than  that  which  contains  a  greater  amount  of  starch,  and  is 
therefore  stronger,  that  is,  will  make  more  bread  to  a  given  quan- 
tity. Gluten  is  a  flesh,  and  starch  a  heat  producer,  in  the  nutri- 
tive processes  of  the  body. 

Neither  gluten  nor  starch  dissolve  in  cold  water.  Gluten  is  a 
grayish,  tough,  elastic  substance,  and  flour  containing  it  in  a  fair 
quantity  adheres  to  the  hand  when  compressed,  and  shows  the  im- 
print of  the  skin,  but  starchy  flour  crumbles  and  lacks  the  adhe- 
sive property. 

Milk  or  water  used  in  mixing  bread  softens  the  gluten  and  ce- 
ments the  particles  of  flour,  preparatory  to  the  action  of  the  car- 
bonic acid  gas.  In  bread  made  from  yeast  this  gas  and  alcohol 
are  foimed  by  the  fermentation  of  the  yeast,  combining  with  the 


8  BKEAD, 

sugar  in  the  flour  as  well  as  the  sugar  added  to  the  flour.  The 
expansion,  caused  by  the  efl'orts  of  the  gas  to  escape  through  the 
strong  elastic  walls  of  the  cells  of  gluten,  changes  the  solid  dough 
into  a  light,  spongy  mass.  The  kneading  process  distributes  the 
yeast  thoroughly  through  the  dough,  making  the  grain  firm  and 
even. 

In  baking,  the  heat  breaks  the  starch  cells,  renders  the  gluten 
tender,  converts  the  water  into  steam,  the  alcohol  into  vapor,  and 
increases  the  size  of  the  loaf  through  the  expansion  of  the  car- 
bonic acid  gas,  though  one-sixth  of  its  weight  is  lost  by  this  evap- 
oration.    It  is  now  "food  convenient"  for  all. 

Opinions  differ  as  to  the  comparative  merits  of  fine  flour,  gra- 
ham, and  entn-e  wheat  flour  bread.  That  made  from  the  former 
gains  its  whiteness  and  fineness  at  the  expense  of  its  nutritious 
properties,  the  part  of  the  grain  furnishing  them  being  largel}' 
eliminated  through  the  special  manufacturing  process,  but  bread 
made  wholly  or  in  part  from  the  two  latter  varieties  is  proportion- 
ately nourishing,  strengthening,  and  easily  digested. 

The  common  or  "straight"  brands  of  flour  are  used  by  the 
great  majority  of  families,  and  from  each  of  them  good,  pdatable 
and  uniform  bread  can  be  made.  Good  bread  makes  the  home- 
liest meal  acceptable,  and  there  is  no  one  thing  so  necessary  to 
the  health  and  comfort  of  a  family.  In  selecting  flour  buy  that  of 
a  cream  tint,  that  will  not  work  into  a  sticky  mass  when  damp- 
ened by  the  fingers,  that  will  not  fall  like  powder  if  thrown  against 
a  smooth  surface,  and  that  will  retain,  as  before  stated,  the  im 
pression  of  the  hand  when  compressed  within  it. 

Flour  should  be  kept  dr^^,  cool,  and  entirely  beyond  the  reach 
of  vermin,  big  or  little,  for  the  tiny  meal  moth  is  far  more  to  be 
dreaded  than  rats  or  mice.  Buy  at  first,  if  possible,  a  barrel  of 
flour ;  the  barrel  will  prove  a  good  investment  for  the  future,  as 
all  smaller  purchases  of  flour  can  be  emptied  into  it.  Let  it  stand 
on  four  blocks  of  wood,  thus  ensuring  a  current  of  fresh  air  be- 
neath it. 

Do  not  buy  less  than  one  hundred  pounds,  for  cleanness  and 
economy's  sake,  unless  obliged  to  use  the  flour  and  meal  bins 
buiJt  into  many  pantries  of   the  modern  houses.     If  so,  buy  a 


BREAD.  9 

snnallcr  amount,  as  these  bins,  being  more  difficult  to  care  for, 
need  frequent  attention.  Ever}^  receptacle  of  flour  should  be 
often  and  thoroughly  cleansed,  to  guard  against  animal  as  well  as 
vegetable  parasites.  Never  put  into  the  flour,  for  even  a  day,  a 
roll  of  dough  or  pastry  for  later  use.  A  single  speck  of  mold, 
coming  from  any  cause,  will  leaven  the  whole  flour  as  rapidly  and 
strongly  as  ten  times  its  weight  in  yeast. 

All  kinds  of  flour  and  meal,  except  buckwheat  and  graham — 
and  graham,  if  very  coarse — need  sifting,  and  should  be  bought  in 
small  quantities,  as  they  become  damp  and  mustj'  by  long  stand- 
ing. After  sifting  flour  or  meal,  be  very  careful  to  empty  the 
sieve  before  putting  it  back  into  the  barrel  or  bin. 

Good  flour,  good  yeast  and  watchful  care  are  indispensable  to 
successful  bread-making.  A  large,  seamless  tin  pan,  with  han- 
dles and  a  tight-fitting  cover,  should  be  kept  for  bread-making 
only,  and  thoroughlj-  washed  and  scalded  whenever  used.  A 
crockery  bowl  holding  from  eight  to  twelve  quarts  can  be  used,  if 
preferred,  but  must  be  closely  covered  by  a  well-folded  cloth. 

Bread  should  undergo  but  one,  the  saccharine  or  sweet  fer- 
mentation ;  if  it  passes  to  the  second,  the  vinous  or  alcoholic  fer- 
mentation, the  larger  part  of  the  nutritious  properties  of  the  flour 
are  destroyed  ;  if  it  reaches  the  third,  or  acetous  stage,  the  bread 
is  soured  and  utterl}^  unfit  for  use.  Never  use  sour  yeast.  The 
temperature  of  the  bread  in  rising  should  be  blood  warm  ;  if  less, 
it  is  liable  to  sour ;  if  greater,  it  may  be  scalded,  or  become  full 
of  large  pores  and  lose  its  firm,  smooth  grain.  It  is  as  important 
for  the  dough  to  rise  as  well  after  being  made  out  mto  loaves, 
rolls,  or  biscuits  as  before  ;  therefore  allow  a  sufficient  time  for 
rising,  and  cover  over  the  tops  of  the  pans  with  a  bread-cloth, 
removing  it  a  few  moments  before  baking.  A  good  general  rule 
to  follow  is  this :  If  well  kneaded  down,  let  the  loaf  double  its 
size  in  rising ;  if  only  partially  kneaded,  let  it  rise  but  one-half. 
Much  depends  on  the  flour,  the  heat  of  the  day  and  the  previous 
rising,  but  personal  judgment  and  experience  must  guide  at  this 
point  as  well  as  others. 

Before  putting  the  loaves  into  the  oven  prick  them  in  three 
places  with  a  steel  fork,  that  part  of  the  gas  generated  in  rising 


10  BREAD. 

may  escape  and  prevent  the  possibility  of  too  great  expansion  in 
baking,  which  would  make  the  texture  of  the  bread  coarse  and 
open  instead  of  smooth  and  fine.  In  baking,  keep  the  oven  at  a 
uniform  temperature,  except  that  the  heat  may  slacken  a  very 
little  toward  the  last.  The  oven  is  of  good  heat  if  flour  will 
brown  in  it  at  the  end  of  a  minute. 

The  best  pan  for  baking  bread  is  made  of  Russia  iron,  which 
costs  but  little  more  than  tin,  and  is  much  more  durable.  Let  it 
be  five  by  ten  or  twelve  inches  on  the  bottom,  flaring  a  little  to 
the  top,  and  four  and  one-half  inches  deep.  It  should  be  well, 
though  lightl}^,  greased.  One  hour  is  the  average  time  for  baking, 
though  much  depends  on  the  action  of  the  stove.  See  that  the 
fire  is  so  regulated  as  not  to  need  replenishing  during  the  hour. 
The  finest  bread  may  be  completely  spoiled  in  the  baking,  and  a 
freshly-made  fire  cannot  be  easily  regulated.  Open  the  oven  door 
as  seldom  as  possible,  and  close  it  carefully.  If  necessary,  the 
pan  may  be  gently  turned  around,  after  twenty  minutes.  The 
heat  of  the  oven  should  be  steady,  but  if  from  any  cause  it  be- 
comes too  great  put  a  pan  of  cold  water  on  the  upper  slide,  or 
turn  a  pan  over  the  loaf,  or  cover  it  with  a  piece  of  clean,  brown 
paper.     A  slide,  or  a  low,  flat  tin  may  be  put  under  the  pans. 

If  bread  or  cake  is  well  and  sufficiently  baked,  there  will  be  no 
sound  of  cracking  in  the  loaf  when  quickly  held  to  the  ear ;  a 
broom  splinter  passed  into  it  will  come  out  as  dry  and  free  as  at 
first.     A  loaf  can  be  held  on  the  hand  without  burning  the  palm. 
The  bread  will  also  have  the  odor  of  fresh,  sweet  flour. 

On  a  clean  shelf  or  table,  near  the  window,  lay  a  well-folded 
linen  cloth,  an  old  table-cloth  will  serve  nicely,  and  as  the  well 
browned  loaves  come  from  the  oven,  either  lay  them  upon  it  or 
slightly  tip  them,  one  just  touching  the  other,  and  leave  them  un- 
covered till  cool.  If  preferred,  a  cloth  can  cover  them.  Never, 
on  any  account,  put  the  warm  loaves  on  wood  or  stone. 

Should  the  bread  be  baked  too  hard,  rub  the  loaf  with  fresh 
butter ;  then  cover  it  with  a  clean  brown  paper,  laying  a  cloth 
over  that. 

When  thoroughly  cool,  the  bread  must  be  put  into  a  close-cov- 
ered stone  jar,  or  tin  box,  which  should  be  well  scalded  and  dried 


BREAD.  11 

each  baking  day.  If  a  jar  is  used  tie  a  heavy  linen  cloth,  twice 
folded  at  least,  over  the  top,  which  should  be  some  inches  above 
the  bread.  On  a  hot,  windy  day  in  summer,  having  considerable 
unused  bread  on  hand,  take  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  sprinkle  well 
the  cloth,  so  that  the  bread  maj^  be  kept  fresh  and  moist.  If  a 
heavy  line  of  chalk  is  drawn  around  the  jar,  no  insects  will  crawl 
over  it.  In  cutting  warm  bread  for  the  table,  heat  the  knife,  and 
it  is  better  to  replenish  the  bread  plate  than  to  have  slices  left 
over  to  dry  or  waste. 

Rolls  and  biscuit  should  bake  quicklj^  Baking  powder  and 
soda  biscuit  should  be  made  rapidly,  placed  in  hot  pans,  and  put 
into  a  quick  oven.  Let  gem  pans  be  well  heated  and  greased. 
If  stone  cups  are  to  be  used,  see  that  they  are  well  greased  and 
very  hot. 

Be  very  careful  to  use  the  best  baking  powder,  and  always  sif-t 
it  with  the  flour.  Use  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  not  saleratus,  in  cook- 
ing. Take  two  parts  of  cream  of  tartar  to  one  of  soda,  if  sweet  milk 
is  used  in  cooking.  Free  the  powder  from  lumps,  and  either  sift 
well  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  with  the  flour,  or  the  cream  of 
tartar  alone,  and  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk  b}^  beating  it  for  one 
minute.  Soda  should  be  dissolved  in  the  same  manner  in  sour 
milk.  Alwa3's  use  yellow  corn  meal  in  every  recipe  where  meal  is 
called  for,  unless  the  white  is  specified. 

In  measuring,  a  *  table3poon  is  the  size  of  an  ordinary  silver 
tablespoon.  A  teaspoon  means  a  spoon  rounded  above,  as  the 
bowl  is  below ;  a  heaping  spoon  what  can  be  added  to  the 
rounded  measure,  and  a  level  measure  is  just  even  with  the 
sides  of  the  spoon.  A  half  teaspoon  divides  the  length  and  not 
the  breadth  of  the  spoon.  A  salt  six)on  is  equivalent  to  one  quar- 
ter of  a  teaspoon.  One  cup  of  yeast  is  equivalent  to  one  yeast 
cake. 

•Whenever,  in  tliis  })ook,  the  words  cupful,  coffee  cupful,  tea  cupful,  table* 
spooulul,  etc.,  occur,  the  teruiiuation  *'  ful  '^  is  dropped,  for  tije  sake  of  brevity. 


12  YEAST. 

YEAST. 

Yeast  is  naturally  a  most  unstable  sort  of  commodit}^,  but 
its  main  characteristic  is  that  upon  the  very  slightest  proA'^ocation 
it  will  rise.  During  one  week  it  contradicted  its  usual  methods 
and  shrunk  in  a  most  amazing  wa}^  One  Saturday  it  sold  for 
twenty  cents  a  pound,  the  next  Monday  it  sold  for  five  cents  a 
pound,  and  in  a  few  days  rose  again  to  twenty  cents  a  pound.  In- 
vestigation into  the  cause  of  the  fluctuation  in  price  revealed  the 
existence  of  a  double-riveted  trust,  which  controls  the  price  of 
yeast  and  holds  it  at  a  figure  which  pays  the  members  of  the  trust 
a  handsome  profit.  A  pound  of  jeast  cut  into  squares  wrapped  in 
tinfoil  will  make  forty  cakes,  which  are  sold  by  the  manufacturer 
at  one  cent  each  and  retail  for  two  cents.  The  consumer  of  this 
yeast  then  pays  eighty  cents  a  pound.  The  profit  is  sixty-eight 
cents,  of  which  the  retailer  makes  forty  and  the  manufacturer 
twentj'-eight  cents.  Compressed  yeast  is  made  from  whiskies, 
vinegars,  and  low  wines,  and  could  be  retailed  at  fifteen  cents  a 
pound,  with  a  fair  margin  of  profit  for  manufacturer  and  retailer. 

It  is  econom}',  therefore,  to  use  homemade  yeast.     Here  are  a 
few  good  recipes : 

YEAST— 1. 

1  quart  sliced  potatoes,  3^  cup  yeast, 

1  large  handful  hops,  J^  cup  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  ginger,  ^  cup  salt, 

2  quarts  water. 
Put  hops  and  ginger  in  a  bag  to  boil  15  minutes.  Then 
take  out  hops,  and  add  potatoes.  Boil  till  they  can  be  passed 
easily  through  a  sieve.  Mix  with  the  salt,  sugar  and  water  in  a 
Jar.  When  cool  add  j^east,  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  This  j^east  will  keep  good  three  weeks  in  a 
cool  place. 

YEAST — 2. 
6  potatoes,  medium,  3  tablespoons  salt, 

Small  handful  hops,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

1  cup  yeast.  Water  to  make  2  quarts. 

Put  the  ginger  and  hops  into  a  bag,  drop  into  the  boiling  water ; 
let  boil   for   15  minutes.       Cook   the  potatoes,  mash,   and   mix 


YEAST.  13 

tbem  well  with  the  flour  to  which  has  been  added  the  sugar  and 
salt.  Over  all  pour  the  boiling  hop  water,  and  beat  till  the  mix- 
ture is  smooth.  Turn  into  a  stone  jar,  and  when  cool  add  ihe 
yeast.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  This  will  be  sweet  and  good 
for  some  weeks  if  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Omit  the  hops,  use 
the  boiling  ginger  water  to  scald  the  flour,  and  this  rule  makes  a 
nice  potiito  ^^east. 

No  other  yeast  is  made  with  so  little  trouble  as  potato  yeast 
Bread  made  from  it  keeps  moist  longer,  and  there  is  no  danger  oi 
injuring  its  flavor  by  using  too  much. 

YEAST — 3. 
6  potatoes,  medium,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

X  cup  suj^ar,  }4  cup  yeast. 

Boil  potatoes  till  done,  mash  very  fine  or  press  through  a  sieve, 
pour  on  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and 
when  lukewarm  stir  in  the  yeast.  It  should  now  be  quite  thin  ; 
let  rise,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place,  but  where  it  will  not  freeze.  A 
lairge  oupful  makes  eight  or  nine  loaves  of  bread. 

YEAST 4. 

6  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

Small  handful  hops,  2  tablespoons  molasses, 

K  c^'P  yeast,  2  quarts  water. 

Tie  the  hops  in  a  bag  and  boil  with  the  potatoes  in  2  quarts 
of  water.  Take  out  potatoes,  mash  fine  and  pour  the  water  over 
them  ;  add  salt,  molasses,  and  thicken  with  flour.  When  cool,  add 
yeast  or  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water.  Cover,  and  set  near 
the  fire.     Keep  in  a  jar  in  a  cool  place.     This  must  not  freeze. 

YEAST — 5. 

6  potatoes,  1  handful  hops, 

2  tablespoons  salt,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  cup  flour,  X  Gup  sugar, 
1  quart  water. 

Put  the  hops  into  a  bag  and  boil  15  minutes.  Pour  the  hop 
water  over  the  flour,  add  the  potatoes,  having  rubbed  through  a 
colander.  Stir  well  after  adding  sugar  and  salt ;  when  cool,  add 
3'ea.st  or  a  j-east  cake,  which  has  been  soaked.  This  yeast  keeps 
well  two  weeks. 


BECIPES  FOR  MAKINa  BREAD. 

mother's  bread. 

Put  about  2  quarts  of  flour  into  a  pan,  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  until  nearly  all  the  flour  is  wet.  Stir  the  flour  while 
pouring  in  the  water.  Now  add  1  pint  of  cold  water,  and  beat 
well.  Let  it  stand  until  lukewarm,  then  add  1  cup  of  No.  1 
yeast,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  ^  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Turn  it  out  on  the  moulding  board  and  work 
in  more  flour  by  slashing  it  with  a  sharp  knife.  Slash  and  add 
flour,  and  knead  una)  the  dough  is  stiff  and  smooth.  Too  much 
flour  cannot  be  worked  into  it.  Let  it  stand  until  morning,  then 
knead  it  down  without  removing  it  from  the  pan.  After  break- 
fast, turn  it  out  on  the  board,  and  knead  it  for  10  minutes,  then 
put  it  back  and  let  it  rise  as  much  as  possible  without  smelling 
like  wine,  then  make  it  into  loaves.  When  the  loaves  are  light, 
they  should  be  put  into  a  hot  oven,  which  is  allowed  to  cool  grad- 
ually until  the  bread  is  done.  Bread  made  in  this  way  will  keep 
fresh  a  long  time. 

BREAD    RAISED    ONCE. 

1  quart  water,  1  pint  potato  yeast, 

3  quarts  Hour,  2  teaspoons  salt. 

To   make  3  loaves   of  bread,  sift   the  flour  into  the  pan,  add 

salt  and  pour  in  slowly  the  water,  lukewarm  ;  afterward  add  yeast, 

stirring  constantly.      If  hop  yeast  is  used  take  1  cup,  or,  if  pre- 

f-eired,  1  cake  compressed  3'east  dissolved  in  tepid  water.     Mix 

14 


BREAD.  15 

thoroughly,  adding  flour,  until  a  stiff  dough  is  formed ;  place  on 
the  bread-board,  knead  vigorously  for  20  minutes  or  more, 
flouring  the  board  frequently  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking 
to  it,  divide  into  loaves  of  a  size  to  suit  pans,  mould  into  a  comely 
shape,  place  in  pans,  rub  over  the  top  a  light  coating  of  sweet, 
drawn  butter,  set  in  a  warm,  not  too  hot  place  to  rise,  cover 
lightl}'  to  keep  off  dust  and  air,  watch  and  occasionally  turn  the 
pans  around  when  necessar}^  to  make  the  loaves  rise  evenly  ;  when 
risen  to  about  double  the  original  size,  draw  across  the  top  of  each 
lengthwise  with  a  sharp  knife,  making  a  slit  half  an  inch  deep, 
place  them  in  a  moderatel}''  heated  oven,  and  bake  1  hour, 
watching  carefull}'  from  time  to  time  to  make  certain  that  a 
proper  degree  of  heat  is  kept  up.  Before  browning  they  will  rise 
to  double  the  size  of  loaf  which  was  placed  in  the  oven,  and  pans 
must  be  provided  deep  enough  to  retain  them  in  shape.  Bake 
until  well  done  and  nicely  browned,  Nothing  adds  more  to  the 
sweetness  and  digestibility  of  wheaten  bread  than  thorough  baking. 
When  done,  remove  from  pans  immediately,  to  prevent  the  sweat- 
ing and  softening  of  the  crust. 

BREAD  RAISED  TWICE. 
4  quarts  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

1  pint  water,  1  tablespoon  lard, 

1  cup  yeast. 
Measure  out  the  flour,  take  out  a  pint  in  a  cup,  and  place  re- 
mainder in  a  breadpan.  Make  a  well  in  the  middle,  into  which 
turn  sugar,  salt,  and  yeast ;  then  mix  in  milk  which  has  been 
made  bloodwarm  by  adding  the  boiling  water;  beat  well  with  a 
strong  spoon,  add  lard,  knead  for  20  or  30  minutes,  and  let  rise 
over  night;  in  the  morning  knead  again,  make  into  loaves,  let 
them  rise  1  hour,  and  bake  50  minutes.  Water  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  pint  of  milk,  in  which  case  use  twice  as  much  lard. 

BREAD  RAISED  THREE  TIMES. 
1  quart  flour,  1  cup  yeast, 

4  pints  water,  }4  cup  sugar, 

8  potatoes,  >^  cup  lard, 

1  tablespoon  salt. 
In   planning  for  G  loaves,  begin  about  5  p.    m.      Take  yeast, 


16  BREAD 

No.  2,  add  the  flour  and  tepid  water,  beat  together  thoroughly, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.  This  should  rise  in  about  2  hours; 
and  when  nearly  light,  take  6  or  8  medium  sized  potatoes, 
pare  neatly,  rinse  clean,  and  boil  in  3  pints  of  water  till  well 
done  mash  very  fine  in  the  water  while  hot.  Have  ready  a  bread- 
pan  of  sifted  flour,  into  which  put  salt,  sugar,  and  lard  ;  then 
riddle  the  potato  mash,  hot  as  it  is,  through  a  sieve  or  fine  colan- 
der into  the  flour,  and  stir  into  a  stiff  dough.  This  scalds  about 
half  the  flour  used  in  the  batch  of  bread.  This  mass  must  cool 
till  it  will  not  scald  the  3- east,  which  may  now  be  mixed  in  and 
put  in  a  warm,  not  hot,  place  for  second  rising,  which  will  be  ac- 
complished by  morning,  when  the  kneading  may  be  done. 
Kneading  is  the  finest  point  of  breadmaking,  and  contains  more 
of  the  art  than  any  other ;  it  requires  skill,  time,  patience,  and 
hard  work.  Work  in  flour  no  faster  than  is  required  to  allow 
thorough  kneading,  which  cannot  be  done  in  less  than  45 
minutes,  but  should  not  be  worked  much  over  an  hour.  The 
working  of  the  dough  gives  grain  and  flakiness  to  the  bread.  The 
douo^h  should  be  soft,  not  sticky,  and  stiff  enough  to  retain  its 
roundness  on  the  board.  Put  back  into  the  pan  for  the  third 
rising,  which  will  require  little  time,  and,  when  light,  cut  off 
enough  for  each  loaf  by  itself,  knead  but  little,  and  put  into  pans. 
If  the  first  kneading  has  been  well  done,  no  more  flour  will  be 
necessary  in  making  the  loaves.  These  must  rise  till  nearly  as 
large  as  they  ought  to  be,  and  then  put  into  a  well-heated  oven. 
From  40  to  60  minutes  will  cook  it.  If  the  yeast  is  set  at  5 
p.  m. ,  the  bread  will  be  ready  for  dinner  the  next  day;  if  in 
the  morning,  the  baking  will  be  done  early  in  the  evening,  or 
12  hours  after,  with  good  yeast  and  fair  temperature.  Bread 
made  in  this  way  will  be  good  for  a  week,  and,  with  fair  weather 
and  careful  keeping,  even  for  two  weeks. 

HOP-YEAST    BREAD. 
3  pints  warm  water,  1  teacup  yeast. 

Make  a  thin  sponge  of  the  yeast,  water  and  flour,  and  let  it  re- 
main till  quite  light.  Knead  into  a  loaf  before  going  to  bed  ;  in 
the  morning,  mould  into  3  loaves.  When  light,  bake  an  hour. 
Bread   made  in   this  way  is   never   soggy   or   heavy.     To   have 


BREAD.  17 

fine,  light  biscuit,  add  the  lard  or  butter  at  night,  and  in  the 
morning  make  into  biscuit  and  bake  for  breakfast.  By  this 
recipe  bread  is  baked  earl}',  leaving  the  oven  free  for  other 
articles. 

YEAST  AND  BREAD  TOGETHER 1. 

On  the  evening  before  breadmaking  day,  peel  and  boil  2 
medium  sized  potatoes  ;  mash  them  in  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  and  pour  the  mixture,  boiling  hot,  into  the  breadpan 
into  which  has  been  put  2  tablespoons  flour  and  1  each  of  salt 
and  sugar.  The  yeast  should  be  as  thin  as  gruel.  Now  strain  it 
through  a  colander,  and  when  it  has  cooled  a  little,  add  a  small 
cup  of  yeast  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  In  the  morning, 
sift  flour  into  the  breadpan,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  pour  in 
the  yeast,  and  partially  stir  it  into  the  flour.  Add  a  quart  of  luke- 
warm water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  dissolved  in  it,  then  stir  until 
stiff  enough  to  knead.  Knead  it  15  minutes,  then  put  it  into 
the  breadpan,  which  must  be  dusted  with  flour ;  put  another  pan 
over  it,  and  set  it  where  it  will  rise  slowl}',  as  bread  that  has  been 
hurried  is  not  so  good.  If  it  becomes  stiff  on  top  before  it  is 
light,  cover  it  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  warm  water.  When  light 
enough,  the  pan  will  lift  easily  and  not  as  if  it  held  a  dead  weight ; 
then  it  must  be  turned  on  to  the  breadboard,  kneaded  quickly  and 
lightly  into  a  long  roll  and  cut  into  loaves.  The  less  the  loaves 
are  kneaded  and  the  less  flour  added,  the  better  the  bread  will  be. 
When  the  tins  begin  to  feel  quite  light,  the  bread  is  ready  to  bake. 
The  oven  should  be  quite  hot  at  first,  and  allowed  to  cool  off  grad- 
ually while  the  bread  is  baking,  but  the  fire  must  not  get  very  low 
until  the  bread  is  done,  which  will  be  in  about  40  minutes. 
When  the  bread  is  baked,  put  a  plate  in  a  pan,  turn  the  bread  on 
to  it  and  cover  with  another  pan  ;  when  it  is  cool,  raise  the  pan, 
wipe  off  the  steam,  and  replace  it,  keeping  it  there  until  used  up. 

YEAST  AND  BREAD  TOGETHER 2. 

Use  about  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes  ;  strain  them  through  a 
colander,  with  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  into  a  vessel  cxjn- 
taining  about  a  pint  of  flour.  After  this  is  well  stirred,  and  cooled 
until  lukewarm,  add  2  tablespoons  of  the  yeast  and  set  the 
sponge  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.      It  will  usually  be  light  in  about 


18  BREAD. 

6  hours,  and  should  be  made  into  a  sponge  in  the  regular  way 
by  adding  warm  water  and  flour.  When  this  second  sponge  has 
risen,  mix  it  into  dough.  This  method  takes  a  great  deal  of  time, 
but  makes  the  best  bread.  These  directions  are  for  white  bread, 
but  graham  bread  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  by  adding  mo- 
lasses, a  little  shortening,  and  graham  flour  instead  of  white  when 
mixing  the  second  sponge. 

Empty  the  mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner  into  it,  but  do  not 
stir  it  up  until  the  3'east  is  soaked.  Let  it  soak  until  night,  then 
stir  it  up  and  acid  warm  water,  a  tablespoon  each  of  sugar  and 
salt,  and  sift  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifl?  batter.  Beat  this 
well,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Mix  as  early  as  possi- 
ble in  the  morning,  and  be  sure  to  knead  it  a  good  while,  20 
minutes  at  least,  as  tliat  makes  smooth,  white  bread. 

Grease  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  crock  with  lard,  the  same  one 
the  sponge  was  made  in — use  a  crock,  because  when  it  gets  warm 
it  retains  the  heat  better  than  any  tin  or  wooden  ware,  and  the 
dough  does  not  d;y  and  form  a  crust  on  the  outside — and  let  it 
rise,  then  knead  agLiin.  If  kneaded  properly  the  first  time,  so  as 
to  have  the  dough  stiff  enough,  knead  it  a  very  little  this  time. 
Let  it  rise  again,  and  mould  into  loaves,  and  bake  when  light 
enough.  If  homemade  3-east  is  preferred,  it  can  be  used  just  as 
well.  By  following  these  directions,  good  bread  can  be  secured 
without  the  trouble  of  cooking  potatoes  on  purpose,  and  having 
more  dishes  to  wash. 

grandma's  bread. 

Set  the  bread  at  night,  and  if  kept  warm  it  is  ready  to  mix 
early  in  the  morning.  Knead  down  2  or  3  times  before  put- 
ting it  into  the  pans.  Never  take  the  dough  from  the  pan  when 
kneading  it,  but  press  it  down  gentl}^  to  get  out  the  gases,  and,  at 
the  last,  give  a  few  "doubles  "  to  pull  in  the  edges,  then  turn  it 
over.  When  putting  it  in  the  pans,  cut  off  enough  dough  for  a 
loaf,  roll  it  with  the  hands  until  it  is  a  foot  in  length  ;  roll  this  up 
and  press  it  together  in  the  shape  of  a  loaf,  and  when  it  is  baked 
it  will  be  in  la3''ers,  light  and  feathery,  and  not  full  of  tiny  holes. 
Just  as  the  loaves  begin  to  brown,  brush  them  quickly  with  sweet 
milk,  and  the  crust  will  be  tender  and  delicious. 


BREAD.  19 

COFFEE     BREAD. 

1  quart  flour,  ^  sugar.cup  white 

IX  cups  warm  milk,  }^  cup  yeast, 

1  cup  stoned  raisins,  1  egg, 

5i  cup  butter,  J^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Measure  the  flour  before  sifting,  then  sift,  add  sugar,  and  rub 
in  the  butter.  Mix  in  the  yeast,  add  the  milk,  and  knead  for 
15  minutes.  Cover,  and  let  rise  all  day.  In  the  evening  add 
the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  knead  thoroughly.  Cover  well,  and  let 
rise  all  night.  Stir  in  the  cinnamon  and  raisins  in  the  morning. 
Make  up,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Let  rise  to  the  top  of 
the  pan,  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  a 
large  loaf. 

MILK    BREAD. 

2  quarts  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 

3  quarts  flour,  }^  cup  butter. 

Scald  fresh,  sweet  milk,  and,  when  cool,  make  a  sponge  of  the 
flour  in  which  the  butter  has  been  rubbed.  If  rolls  are  wanted, 
add  sugar  when  mixing  it.  Let  stand  until  light,  add  flour 
enough  to  knead  thoroughly.  Let  rise  again,  work  over  as  be- 
fore, and  mould  into  the  desired  shape.  If  the  dough  is  kept  in 
an  earthen  vessel  and  covered  with  tin,  it  will  not  need  greasing 
while  rising.  Always  butter  the  top  of  the  dough  when  it  is  put 
into  the  pans  to  rise,  and  do  not  cover  with  a  cloth  when  baked. 

BREAD  WITHOUT    KNEADING. 

1  quart  milk,  }{  cup  yeast» 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

TVarm  the  butter  in  the  milk,  do  not  let  it  become  hot,  add 
yeast  when  sufficiently  cool,  stir  in  all  the  flour  possible  with  a 
spoon.     Beat  well,  pour  into  pans,  let  rise  and  bake  at  once. 

WINTER    BREAD. 

To  make  light  bread  in  winter,  on  the  day  before  baking  have 
mashed  potatoes  for  dinner.  When  the  potatoes  are  cooked, 
drain  the  water  into  a  crock  or  bowl  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 
When  dinner  is  over  put  a  cake  of  3'east  foam,  or  as  much  dry 
yeast  of  any  kind  as  used  at  a  baking,  in  the  potato  water. 


20  BREAD. 


RICE  BREAD. 


2K  cups  warm  milk,  7  cups  flour, 

3^  cup  butter,  3  eggs, 

%  cup  yeast,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  heaping  cup  boiled  rice. 

If  the  rice  is  cooked  in  milk,  use  the  same  day  and  cool  before 
using.  If  cold,  and  hard  or  lumpy,  add  a  little  milk  and  set 
the  bowl  into  a  basin  of  hot  water  on  the  stove,  stirring  until 
smooth.  Do  not  let  it  become  more  than  lukewarm.  Eub  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  stir  in  the  eggs,  previously  well  beaten, 
2  cups  of  flour,  milk,  and  the  rest  of  the  flour ;  then  add  the 
rice  and  yeast,  and  beat  well  together  for  10  minutes.  Cover 
closely,  and  let  rise  over  night.  This  quantity  makes  two  small 
loaves,  and  should  rise  in  the  pans  about  1^  hours,  or  above  the 
top  of  the  pan.  Do  not  have  a  very  hot  oven,  as  this  bread 
browns  quickly.  / 

POTATO  SPONGE. 

6  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

3  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  yeast,  1  quart  tepid  water. 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes ;  while  hot  add  sugar,  butter  and  flour. 

Beat  to  a  smooth  batter  and  stir  in  the  yeast.     Let  rise  over  night. 

Knead  vigorously  for  15  minutes   in   the  morning.     Set  away, 

and,  when  light,  knead  and  mould  into  medium  sized  loaves.     Let 

rise  and  bake. 

POTATO  BALL   BREAD. 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  cake  yeast, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Soften  the  yeast  cake  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  then  add  to 
the  potato,  with  which  the  sugar  and  salt  have  been  thoroughly 
mixed.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  days  in  winter — sooner  in 
summer.  Keep  it  in  a  covered  bowl.  Mix  bread  sponge  with  2 
quarts  of  warm  milk  or  water,  and  add  half  the  potato  ball.  Let 
rise,  and  proceed  as  with  other  bread.  To  the  other  half  of  the 
ball,  add  a  cup  of  potatoes,  stirring  thoroughly,  and  set  away 
until  the  next  baking  day.  If  the  sponge  freezes  it  will  not  be  in- 
jured.    This  method  is  pronounced  a  superior  one. 


BREAD.  21 

SALT    RISING    BREAD 1. 

Put  1  teaspoon  salt  into  1  pint  water,  stirring  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  luin  batter.  Keep  warm.  If  set  at  6  a.  m. ,  it  should 
commence  to  rise  about  11  o'clock.  Let  stand  until  it  foams  all 
over  the  top.  Then  add  a  pint  of  fresh  milk  warmed,  and  knead 
into  loaves  immediately.  Bake  as  soon  as  risen,  and  you  will  not 
be  troubled  with  any  disagreeable  odors. 

SALT    RISING  BREAD 2. 

}4  cup  corn  meal,  K  cup  butter, 

1  pint  warm  water,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  saltspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

3  quarts  flour. 
The  evening  before  baking,  scald  the  corn  meal  with  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  moderately  stiflT  batter.  If  set  in  a  warm 
place  this  will  be  light  in  the  morning.  Add  the  water,  soda,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  quite  stiflf.  Place  in  a  pan  of  warm  water 
to  rise.  For  5  loaves  take  3  quarts  of  flour;  add  butter,  salt, 
sugar  and  the  sponge  with  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Mould  into  loaves,  let  rise,  and  bake  45  minutes.  Much  depends 
on  keeping  the  batter  warm  and  the  stove  properly  heated. 

SALT  RISING   BREAD — 3. 

On  the  evening  before  baking  da}^  pour  about  half  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing hot  new  milk  on  one  tablespoon  of  corn  meal,  stir  it  well  and 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  It  will  not  rise  but  will 
look  light  and  foam}-.  In  the  morning  make  salt  rising  as  usual, 
and  add  the  prepared  meal  to  it.  Place  the  dish  in  a  kettle  of 
warm  water,  and  keep  it  at  an  even  temperature  until  the  sponge 
is  light,  which  will  be  in  about  two  hours.  The  bread  can  be 
baked  before  noon. 

BREAD    WITH  BUTTERMILK. 

The  evening  before  baking,  bring  2  quarts  sweet  buttermilk  to 
the  boiling  point,  or  boil  sour  milk  and  tiike  the  same  quantity  of 
the  whey,  and  pour  into  a  crock  in  which  1  small  cup  flour 
has  been  placed.  Let  stand  till  sufficiently  cool,  then  add  yeast, 
and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  the  better  and  longer  the  sponge 
is  stiiTcd  the  whiter  will  be  tlie  bread.  In  the  morning  sift  the 
flour  into    the  breadpan,  pour   the  sponge    in  the  center,  stir  in 


22  BREAD. 

some  of  the  flour,  and  let  stand  until  after  breakfast ;  then  mix, 
kneading  for  about  half  an  hour,  the  longer  the  better ;  when 
light,  mould  into  loaves,  this  time  kneading  as  little  as  possible. 
The  secret  of  good  bread  is  having  good  yeast,  and  not  baking 
too  hard.     This  makes  four  loaves  and  forty  biscuit. 

BAKING  POWDER  BREAD. 

1  quart  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  and  salt  into  the  flour  ;  the  sifting  en- 
sures thorough  mixing.  Before  wetting  the  flour,  see  that  the 
oven  is  rather  quick,  that  is,  rather  hotter  than  that  required  for 
bread ;  if  the  hand  can  be  held  in  the  oven  while  15  can  be  counted 
rapidly,  the  heat  will  be  about  right.  Also  butter  the  baking 
pan.  These  preparations  being  made,  chop  into  the  flour  butter 
or  good  lard,  and  pour  in  sufficient  water  or  milk  to  just  moisten 
the  flour.  The  tops  of  the  loaves  should  be  brushed  with  butter 
or  milk  ;  no  kneading  is  required  ;  as  soon  as  the  flour  is  wet  put 
it  at  once  into  buttered  pans,  and  bake  it  as  rapidly  as  possible 
without  bui-ning.  As  the  rising  of  the  carbonic  acid  gas  which  is 
freed  from  the  wet  baking  powder  is  what  makes  the  dough  light, 
it  is  important  to  fix  the  dough  before  the  gas  can  escape.  The 
process  of  making  light  biscuit  or  bread  from  baking  powder  is 
purely  a  mechanical  operation,  based  upon  the  formation  of  these 
air,  or  rather  gas  cells,  in  the  dough.  If,  as  the  gas  forces  its 
way  up  through,  forming  the  cells,  they  can  be  fixed  with  heat  so 
that  their  shape  is  retained  after  the  dough  is  baked,  it  cannot  fail 
to  be  light.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  gas  is  allowed  to  escape 
before  the  dough  is  fixed  by  heat  during  baking,  there  is  no  rea- 
son why  it  should  be  light. 

Let  this  simple  statement  of  facts  be  remembered,  and  the 
dough  made  with  baking  powder  be  baked  before  the  gas  can  es- 
cape, and  there  will  be  no  complaint  of  heavy  bread  or  biscuits. 
The  flavor  will,  of  course,  depend  upon  the  amount  and  kind  of 
shortening  used,  and  the  brushing  before  baked.  This  recipe 
makes  one  medium  loaf  of  bread. 


BREAD.  23 

VIENNA  BREAD 1. 

1  pint  milk,  6  or  7  cups  flour, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  butter  in  hot  milk.      Measure  milk  after  scalding  and  put 

in  the  mixing  bowl  with  butter,  sugar  and  salt.     When  cool,  add 

yeast,  and   then   stir   in  flour,  adding  it   gradually  after  5  cups 

have  been  put  in,  in  order  to  be  only  stiff  enough   to   knead. 

Knead  till  smooth  and  elastic.      Cover  ;  let  rise  till  light ;  cut  it 

down ;  divide  into   4   parts   and    shape   into   loaves.       Let   rise 

again  in  the  pans  ;  bake  45  or  50  minutes. 

VIENNA    BREAD 2. 

Take  the  same  proportions  of  the  preceding  recipe,  except  that 
about  one  less  cup  of  flour  is  used,  and  the  dough  is  not  kneaded. 
Mix  it  with  a  knife,  cutting  it  through  and  turning  and  working  it 
over  until  all  the  dry  flour  is  mixed  with  the  other  materials.  Mix 
soft  enough  to  be  shaped  into  loaves  after  it  has  risen.  Scrape 
the  dough  from  the  sides  of  the  bowl ;  smooth  the  top  with  a 
knife  ;  cover  and  let  rise.  Shape  into  loaves,  and  when  light  bake 
50  minutes. 

BOSTON  BRCFWN   BREAD 

1  cup  rye  meal,  2  cups  milk, 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  graham  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  dessert  spoon  soda. 

Use  sour  milk,  if  possible,  and  if  necessary  1  cup  of  water 
can  be  substituted  for  1  cup  milk ;  add  molasses,  New  Orleans 
or  Porto  Rico  preferred,  soda  and  salt.  Into  this  stir  the  meal 
and  flour,  pour  into  a  well-greiised  form  or  covered  pail,  put  into 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  3  hours.  This  may  ap- 
pear too  thin,  but  do  not  add  an3'thing  more.  The  bread  should 
not  fill  the  pail  over  two-thirds  full.  See  that  the  water  does  not 
boil  over  the  pail ;  also  take  care  that  it  does  not  boil  entirely 
awa}-,  or  stop  boiling.  To  serve  it,  remove  the  cover,  set  a  few 
moments  into  the  oven  to  dry  off  the  top,  and  it  will  turn  out  in 
shape. 


24  BREAD. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD — 2. 
3  cups  sour  milk,  ^  cup  molasses, 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  dessert  spoon  soda, 

2  cups  graham  or  rye  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  steam  3  hours.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

KANSAS  BROWN  BREAD. 
1  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  white  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  graham  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 
Steam  it  4  or  5  hours  and  set  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  brown. 

BROWN  JO   BREAD. 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  cup  molasses, 

2  cups  white  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoon  soda,                                         1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  well  and  steam  3  or  4  hours,  then  bake  half  an  hour. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 1. 

1  pint  sour  milk,  }4.  cup  molasses, 

1  pint  corn  meal,  2  tablespoons  melted  lard, 

1  pint  wheat  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  well  and  steam  3  hours.     This  is  well  worth  trying. 

STEAMED    BROWN   BREAD 2. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  sour  milk, 

3  cups  corn  meal,  1  cup  warm  water, 
1  cup  flour  or  rye  meal,                        1  cup  molasses, 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  thoroughly  together,  and  steam  3  hours,  then  dry  it  off 
in  the  oven. 

BROWN    LOAF. 

3  cups  corn  meal,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  flour,  yi  cup  molasses, 

3  cups  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Butter  a  deep  mold,  and  steam  3  hours.  This  can  be  made 
the  day  before,  then  steamed  for  half  an  hour  in  the  morning 
when  wanted,  which  makes  it  as  nice  as  if  just  made.  Another 
good  way  is  to  mix,  and  set  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  to  remain  all 
night  where  it  will  bake  slowly.  The  fire  must  be  turned  off  care- 
fully for  the  night,  so  that  the  oven  will  not  get  hot,  but  do  not 


BREAD.  25 

let  it  go  out  entirely.  The  loaf  will  be  nicely  baked  for  break- 
fast Be  sure  to  remove  from  the  oven,  when  you  build  up  a  hot 
fire  in  the  morning. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  corn  meal,  2}^  cups  sour  milk, 

1  cup  graham  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
hi  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Steam  3  hours,  and  brown  half  an  hour  in  the  oven. 

CORN  BREAD. 
7  pints  corn  meal,  1  pint  molasses, 

3  pints  rye  flour,  2  teaspoons  soda. 
Skimmed  milk,  2  teaspoons  salt. 

Let  this  mixture  be  stiff  enough  to  drop  compactly  from  the 
spoon.     Dust  rye  flour  over  the  top  of  the  loaves  and  pat  smooth. 
Bake  about  4  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

BREAD  WITH  MUSH. 

2  quarts  mush,  1  coffee  cup  molasses, 

2  quarts  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  quart  sponge,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Pour  hot  com  meal  mush,  made  as  for  eating,  over  the  flour, 
wheat  or  graham  ;  whe  cool,  add  sponge,  molasses,  salt  and 
soda.  Mix  well  together,  add  flour  if  necessary ;  knead  thor- 
oughly, make  into  small  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  done,  rub  over  with  butter,  place  on  the  side,  wrap 
in  a  cloth,  and  when  cold  put  in  a  jar  or  box.  This  recipe  makes 
three  good-sized  loaves  and  keeps  moist  longer  than  all-graham 
bread. 

"ENTIRE    wheat"     FLOUR   BREAD. 

Add  1  tablespoon  sugar  to  3  cups  bread  sponge  and  stir  in 
''entire  wheat"  flour,  graham  can  be  used  if  desired,  until  the 
dough  is  sufficiently  stiff  to  put  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  Let 
rise  and  bake  1  hour.  This  is  a  nice,  easy  recipe,  and  makes  one 
loaf. 

TENNESSEE    EGG  BREAD. 

3  cups  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  lard,                                        1  egg. 

Bake  brown  and  quickly. 


26  BREAD. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 1. 

1  pint  graham  flour,  1  pint  bread  sponge, 

1  pint  white  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

Warm  water  to  mix. 
Mix  soft,  put  in  deep  round  tins,  well  buttered,  and  when  light, 
bake  slowly. 

GRAHAM     BREAD 2. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  yeast,  1  quart  warm  water. 

Stir  in  enough  graham  fliour  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  pour  it  into 
well-greased  pans,  let  rise  1  hour,  then  steam  1  hour,  after  which 
put  into  the  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  This  will  make  two 
medium-sized  loaves. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

1  quart  warm  water,  }4  cup  yeast, 

K  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Thicken  the  water  with  unbolted  flour  to  a  thin  batter;  add 
sugar,  salt  and  yeast,  and  stir  in  more  flour  until  quite  stiff.  In 
the  morning  add  a  small  teaspoon  soda  and  flour  enough  to  make 
the  batter  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon ;  put  it  into  pans 
and  let  rise  again  ;  then  bake  in  even  oven,  not  too  hot  at  first ; 
keep  warm  while  rising ;  smooth  over  the  loaves  with  a  spoon  or 
knife  dipped  in  water. 

QUICK  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  sour  milk,  3^  cup  molasses, 

2  teaspoons  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  before  stirring  into  the 
m!lk,  add  molasses,  salt,  and  as  much  graham  flour  as  can  be 
stirred  in  with  a  spoon ;  pour  in  well-greased  pan,  put  in  oven  as 
soon  as  mixed,  and  bake  2  hours. 

BUTTERMILK  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

1  pint  yeast,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

2  quarts  sweet  buttermilk. 

Scald  the  buttermilk,  sweet  milk  or  water  can  be  used  if  neces- 
sary, let  cool,  add  salt,  homemade  yeast,  and  make  the  sponge 
with  white  flour.  When  risen,  mix  with  graham  flour,  knead,  let 
rise,  knead  down,  let  rise  again,  and  knead  into  separate  loaves. 
When  risen  to  double  its  size,  it  is  ready  for  the  oven.     Let  it 


BREAD.  27 

6ake  45  minutes.      [Many  consider  bread  nicer  with  less  kneading, 
—Ed.] 

rye  bread. 

1  pint  corn  rneal,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  quart  warm  water. 

Thicken  the  water  with  rye  flour  and  add  yeast.      Scald  the  com 

meal  and  when  cool  stir  into  the  sponge,  adding  more  r}'e  flour 

until  thick  enough  to  knead.      Knead  but  little,  let  rise,  mould 

into  small  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake.     Wheat  sponge  may  be  used 

instead  of  rye. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Make  sponge  as  for  wheat  bread,  let  rise  over  night,  then  mix 
In  up  with  the  rye  flour  ( not  so  stiff  as  wheat  bread),  and  bake. 

RYE  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. 

1  quart  rye  meal,  }4  cup  molasses, 

2  quarts  Indian  meal,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  cup  yeast,                                               3  teaspoons  salt. 

Scald  the  meal  by  pouring  just  enough  boiling  water  over  it  to 
wet  it,  stirring  constantly,  do  not  make  a  batter,  then  add  mo- 
lasses, soda,  salt  and  3'east.  Make  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with 
a  spoon,  mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all  night;  then  put 
in  a  large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand  dipped  in  cold 
water,  let  it  stand  a  short  time,  and  bake  5  or  6  hours.  If  put  in 
:he  oven  late  in  the  day,  let  it  remain  all  night.  Graham  flour 
may  be  used  instead  of  rye  meaL 

BBEAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

The  << civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks"  and  the  wise, 
intelligent  cook  finds  her  opportunity  in  such  preparation  for  the 
morning  meal  as  shall  conduce  to  the  best  results  during  the  da}' ; 
the  food  should  be  as  healthful  and  appetizing,  as  the  table  dainty 
and  inviting  in  its  appointments.  Thought  and  care,  waiting  on 
knowledge,  provide  for  these,  though  the  purse  be  low  and  the 
materials  few  and  coarse.  A  wide  latitude  is  given  in  the  oppor- 
tunit}'  of  selection,  from  mush  to  waffles,  biscuits  to  johnnycakes, 
rolls  to  crullers,  gems  to  pancakes,  but  there  is  onl}"  one  healthful 
way  of  preparation,  although  these  articles  vary  in  their  respective 
Ability  to  nourish  the  body.     Raised  biscuit,  rolls  and  muffins, 


28  BISCUITS. 

being  small,  need  to  rise  very  light  before  baking,  as  the  heat  acts 
immediately  upon  them,  and  prevents  but  little  further  expansion 
from  the  confined  gas.  They  require  a  hotter  oven  than  is  needed 
for  bread,  but  not  so  hot  as  for  soda  or  baking  powder  biscuit. 
Full  directions  are  given  in  most  of  the  recipes,  but  it  will  be  help- 
ful to  bear  these  general  ones  in  mind. 

Handle  soda  and  baking  powder  biscuit  as  little  and  as  rapidly 
as  possible.  With  sour  milk  use  soda,  with  sweet  milk  baking 
powder,  or  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  For  one  quart  of  flour  take 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  or  one  of  soda  to  two  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Buy  the  pure  bi-carbonate  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar 
from  a  reliable  drug  store,  and  use  the  best  baking  powder. 
There  are  many  powders  on  the  market,  but  avoid  those  known  to 
have  alum,  ammonia  or  such  deleterious  substances  in  their  compo- 
sition. Though  a  little  longer  time  is  required  when  using  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  than  baking  powder,  they  certainly  seem  more 
in  accordance  with  health.  Soda,  or  raised  biscuit,  rolls,  bread 
and  cake,  when  stale,  can  be  freshened  by  plunging  them  into  cold 
water  and  putting  into  a  hot  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
They  should  be  used  immediately.  Gem  pans,  muffin  rings,  pop- 
over  cups  and  waflfle  irons  should  be  greased  and  heated  very  hot 
before  using. 

The  genuine  English  griddle  muffin  is  never  considered  cooked 
until  it  has  been  split  and  toasted.  A  very  delicious  breakfast 
dish  is  the  yeast  muffin,  baked  in  the  oven  and  served  imme- 
diately.    This  is  the  New  England  method. 

RAISED  BISCUITS 1. 

1  pint  hot  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  quart  flour,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

1  cup  yeast,  1  egg. 

Dissolve  butter  in  the  milk ;  when  lukewarm  stir  in  the  beaten 
egg,  salt,  yoast  and  flour.  Work  the  dough  until  smooth.  If 
winter,  set  in  a  warm  place ;  if  summer,  in  a  cool  one  to  rise.  In 
the  morning  work  softly  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  and  cut  into 
biscuit  and  set  to  rise  for  30  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  to 
bake.     These  are  delicious. 


BISCUITS  29 

queen's  biscuits. 
1}4  pounds  flour,  24  eggs,  whites, 

IX  pounds  powdered  sugar,  18  eggs,  yolks. 

Crushed  coriander  seed. 

Make  a  soft  paste  of  the  flour,  sugar,  and  eggs,  adding  a  little 
coriander  seed,  also  a  little  yeast  if  desired.  Bake  on  paper  in  a 
moderate  oven  till  they  begin  to  brown. 

ROCK    BISCUITS. 
1  pound  powdered  sugar,  6  eggs, 

}4  pound  flour,  Currants. 

Beat  the  eggs  till  very  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour  grad- 
ually, and  finally  the  currants.  Mix  well  together,  put  the  dough 
on  the  tins  with  a  fork,  making  it  look  as  rough  as  possible.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  from  20  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  When  cool, 
store  them  away  in  a  dry  place. 

SAVOY  BISCUITS. 
1  pound  flour,  3  tablespoons  water, 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,  13  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  water,  adding  gradually  the  sugar. 
When  it  becomes  thick,  stir  in  the  flour.  Mould  into  long  cakes 
and  bake  slowl}'. 

SUGAR  BISCUITS. 

IK  pints  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard, 

X  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Mix  into  smooth  batter  and  drop  into  tins.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
8  or  10  minutes. 

MAPLE    SUGAR   BISCUITS.  I 

1  quart  flour,  1  pint  milk, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  maple  sugar, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda. 

Whatever  is  used  to  lighten  the  biscuit,  whether  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar  or  baking  powder,  sift  it  through  the  sieve  with  the  flour. 
Rub  the  butter  through  the  flour,  so  thoroughly  that  some  portion 
of  the  butter  touches  ever}^  portion  of  the  flour.  The  success  of 
any  baking  powder  or  of  a  soda  biscuit  depends  upon  care  at  this 
point.  Stir  in  rich,  new  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  At  this 
period  add  the  maple  sugar  cut  into  irregular  dice  about  the  size 


30  ROLLS. 

of  peas.  Dredge  a  board;  turn  out  the  dough.  Dredge  floui 
over  it  and  roll  as  quickly  as  possible  till  about  an  inch  thick.  Cut 
out  the  biscuit  with  a  small  tumbler  or  biscuit  cutter,  not  over  2 
inches  in  diameter.  They  will  rise  to  the  proper  size.  Bake  15 
minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Serve  hot.  These  maple  sugar  bis- 
cuits are  a  delightful  change. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

3  quarts  flour,  K  tablespoon  butter, 

1  pint  cold  boiled  milk,  }4  tablespoon  lard, 

}4  cup  yeast,  K  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg. 

If  wanted  for  supper,  rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  boil  the 
milk,  and  cool  it  the  night  before.  Make  a  well  in  the  flour,  pour 
into  it  the  milk,  to  which  has  been  added  the  sugar,  salt,  well- 
beaten  Qgg^  and  yeast,  but  do  not  stir.  Let  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  stir,  knead,  and  let  rise  till  near  tea  time.  When 
very  light,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  put  a  little 
melted  butter  on  half  the  biscuit,  and  fold  nearly  over  on  the 
other  half.  Place  in  the  pan  about  3  inches  apart.  Let  rise  and 
bake. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

6  potatoes,  K  cup  yeast, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  K  cup  lard, 

2  quarts  water. 

Peel  potatoes,  boil  in  the  water,  press  and  drain  potatoes  and 

water  through  a  colander;   when  cool  enough  not  to  scald,  add 

flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  beat  well,  and  add  j-east.      Make  this 

sponge  early  in  the  morning,  and  when  light  turn  into  a  breadpan, 

add  salt,  lard,  and  flour  enough  for  a  soft  dough  ;  mix  and  let  rise 

in  a  warm,  even  temperature ;  when  risen,  knead  down  and  place 

again  to  rise,  repeating  this  process  5  or  6  times ;  cut  in  small 

pieces  and  mould  in  rolls  about  1  inch  thick  hy  5  long ;  roll  in 

melted  butter  or  sweet  lard,  and  place  in  well-greased  baking  pans ; 

nine  inches  long  by  five  wide  and  two  and  one-half  deep,  makes  a 

convenient  pan,  which  holds  fifteen  of  these  rolls ;  if  twice  the 

width,  put  in  2  rows ;  press  the  rolls  closely  together,  so  that  they 

will  only  be  about  half  an  inch  wide.     Let  rise  a  short  time  and 

bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  if  the  top  browns  too  rapidly, 


ROLLS.  31 

cover  with  paper.     These  rolls,  if  properly  made,  are  very  white, 
light  and  tender. 

Or,  make  rolls  larger,  and  just  before  putting  them  in  the  oven, 
cut  deeply  across  each  one  with  a  sharp  knife.  This  will  make 
the  cleft  roll,  so  famous  among  French  cooks. 

ITALIAN   ROLLS. 

Work  one-fourth  pound  butter  into  1  pound  of  bread  dough 
when  it  has  risen  read3"  for  the  oven,  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick  ; 
cut  in  strips  1  inch  wide  by  7  or  8  inches  long.  Sift  fine  corn 
meal  over  them.  Place  on  a  sheet  of  greased  tin,  so  they  will  not 
touch  each  other,  and  when  light,  about  one  hour,  bake  10  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven. 

BREAKFAST    ROLLS 1. 

Mix  the  dough  in  the  evening,  according  to  directions  in  the 
recipe  for  Bread  Raised  Once ;  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  set 
where  it  will  be  a  little  warm  until  morning ;  cut  off  pieces,  and 
carefull}^  shape  them  into  rolls  of  the  desired  size  b}^  rolling  them 
l)etween  the  hands,  but  do  not  knead  them  ;  dip  the  sides  of  each 
into  drawn  butter  when  they  are  shaped,  and  place  them  in  the 
pan ;  the  butter  prevents  their  sticking  together  when  baked,  and 
they  will  be  smooth  and  perfect  when  separated.  Ilub  them  over 
the  top  with  drawn  butter,  and  dust  with  a  little  fine  salt.  Set  in 
a  warm  place,  and  they  will  quickl}^  rise  for  baking.  These  are 
delicious. 

BREAKFAST    ROLLS 2. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  whites, 

X  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

}4  cup  yeast,  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Flour  for  thick  batter. 
Let  rise  over  night,  adding  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  foam,  and  the 
sugar  in  the  morning.      Mould  quickly,  and  let  rise  a  little  and 
bake.     Ver}'  nice. 

LONG    BREAKFAST    ROLLS. 
3K  cups  sweet  milk,  3-^  cup  lard, 

1  cup  yeast,  }4  cup  butter, 

1  egg. 
Take  flour  enough  to  make  into  dough ;  let  rise  over  night.      In 
the  morning  add  the  beaten  egg,  knead  thoroughly',  and  let  rise 


32  ROLLS. 

again.  With  the  hands  make  into  balls  as  large  as  an  egg  ;  then 
roll  between  the  hands  to  make  long  rolls,  about  three  inches, 
place  close  together  in  even  rows  in  the  pans.  Let  rise  until  light, 
and  bake  delicately. 

DINNER  ROLLS. 

Make  dough  as  directed  in  recipe  for  Long  Breakfast  Rolls, 
make  into  balls  as  large  as  a  medium-sized  egg,  place  on  a  well- 
floured  board,  flour  a  small  rolling-pin,  three-fourths  inch  in 
diameter,  press  down  so  as  nearly  to  divide  each  ball  of  dough  in 
the  center,  place  in  pans  without  touching  each  other,  grease  the 
space  made  by  the  rolling-pin  with  melted  butter,  let  rise  until 
light,  and  bake.  These  rolls  are  so  small  and  bake  so  quickly, 
that  they  have  the  delicious  sweet  taste  of  the  wheat.  Some  grease 
the  hands  with  butter  while  making  the  rolls.  Bread  dough,  by 
adding  the  other  ingredients,  may  be  used  for  these  rolls. 

TEA    ROLLS. 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  Yz  cup  yeast, 

1  pint  warm  water,  *  yi  cup  butter, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  Yz  cup  sugar. 

In  the  morning  make  sponge  with  milk,  water,  yeast  and  flour. 
When  light  and  foamy,  add  sugar,  butter,  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  knead  the  dou^h  without  stickino;  to  the  board.  Let  rise  once, 
then  with  the  hands  mould  into  oblong  rolls,  about  4  inches  long. 
Grease  the  hands  when  doing  this.  Place  the  rolls  in  greased  tins, 
not  quite  touching  each  other.  When  light,  or  about  twice  their 
first  size,  put  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake.  They  should  be  done  in 
thirty  minutes.  When  done,  place  right  side  up  on  a  clean  towel, 
and  then  take  a  tablespoon  nearly  half  full  of  white  sugar,  fill  up 
with  water,  and  with  the  finger  moisten  the  tops  of  all  the  rolls. 

COFFEE  ROLLS. 1. 

Work  into  a  quart  of  bread  dough  a  rounded  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, and  a  half  cup  of  white  sugar;  add  some  dried  currants, 
dredge  with  flour  and  sugar,  make  into  small  rolls,  dip  into  melted 
butter,  place  in  tins,  let  rise  a  short  time,  and  bake. 

COFFEE  ROLLS — 2. 

12  cups  flour,  1  cup  yeast, 

3  cups  warm  milk,  '%.  cup  butter, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  %  cup  lard, 

1  grated  nutmeg,  3  eggs. 


ROLLS.  33 

Mix  all  together  and  let  rise  over  night.  If  -well  risen  in  the 
morning,  knead  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  3  p.  3i. ,  then  shape 
into  long  rolls  and  let  them  rise  nearly  2  hours.  Bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  glaze  with  a  little  milk  and 
brown  sugar,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  2  minutes. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS 1. 

Mix  some  shortening,  an  egg  and  a  little  sugar  into  a  piece 
of  light  bread  dough ;  roll  out  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness, 
spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  roll 
up,  and  slice  off  with  a  sharp  knife  like  jelly  roll.  Place  in  pans 
like  biscuit,  let  rise,  and  when  light,  put  a  lump  of  butter,  a  little 
sugar  and  cinnamon  on  each  one  and  bake. 

CINNAMON    ROLLS 2. 

Pie  crust,  Cinnamon, 

Sugar. 
Roll  out  the  pie  crust,  sprinkle  cinnamon  and  a  little  sugar  over 
it ;  cut  in  narrow  strips,  roll  up  tight,  put  in  a  well-buttered  pan, 
brown  nicely,  and  serve. 

GRAHAM    ROLLS. 

1  quart  grahatn  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  pint  buttermilk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Sift  the  soda  into  the  flour ;  stir  salt,  melted  butter  and  flour 

into  the  buttermilk.     Drop  into  roll  pans  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

EXCELLENT  ROLLS. 

1  pint  new  milk,  ^  cup  butter, 

}^  cup  yeast,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  eggs,  whites. 

Scald  the  new  milk,  adding  to  it  when  cool,  sugar,  3'east,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  rise  over  night,  and  in 
the  morning  add  butter,  salt,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Mix, 
knead  well  and  let  rise,  then  knead  again  and  roll  out  until  three- 
fourths  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  spread 
butter  on  one  half  and  roll  the  other  half  over  it.  Let  rise  until 
very  light,  then  bake. 

CRESCENTS  OR  VIENNA  ROLLS. 

Use  recipe  for  Vienna  Bread  No.  2,  adding  1  tablespoon  butter. 
When   very  light,  roll   the   dough    until   one-eighth    inch   thick; 


34  ROLLS, 

cut  into  pieces  5  inches  square,  and  then  into  triangles.  Hold  the 
apex  of  the  triangle  in  the  right  hand,  roll  the  edge  next  the  left 
hand  over  and  over  toward  the  right,  stretch  the  point  and  bring 
it  over  and  under  the  roll.  Bend  the  ends  of  the  roll  around  like 
a  horseshoe,  being  careful  to  keep  in  the  folding. 

WINTER  ROLLS. 

3  quarts  flour,  1  cup  yeast, 
1  quart  buttermilk,                                           1  cup  lard, 

1  quart  cold  water,  Salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  jar,  scald  the  buttermilk,  add  lard  and  pour 
all  over  the  flour,  beating  it  up  well ;  add  water  and  yeast ;  set  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  salt,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiflf  dough ;  when  risen, 
knead  and  set  to  rise  again.  This  time  knead  down  and  place  in 
a  large  stone  crock  or  bowl,  covered  tightly  to  prevent  the  surface 
from  drying,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  needed,  turn 
out  on  a  bread  board,  take  off  a  piece  as  large  as  you  wished,  roll 
out  to  the  thickness  of  ordinary  soda  biscuit,  cut,  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  bake  immediately.  Set  the  dough  away  as  before ;  it  will 
keep  a  week  in  winter,  and  is  very  convenient  for  hot  breakfast 
rolls. 

POCKET  BOOKS. 

1  quart  new  milk,  1  cup  yeast, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  X  cup  lard, 

2  eggs,  V^  cup  butter, 

X  teaspoon  salt. 

Warm  the  milk,  add  butter,  lard,  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten 
eggs ;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  sponge,  add  the 
yeast,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  which  will  take  three  or 
four  hours ;  then  mix  in  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  let  rise 
again.  When  well  risen,  dissolve  a  little  soda  in  a  spoonful  of 
milk,  work  it  into  the  dough  and  roll  into  sheets  one-half  inch  in 
thickness ;  spread  with  thin  laj^er  of  butter,  cut  into  squares,  and 
fold  over,  pocketbook  shape ;  put  on  tins  or  in  pans  to  rise  for  a 
little  while,  when  thej  will  be  fit  for  the  oven.  In  summer  the 
sponge  can  be  made  up  in  the  morning,  and  rise  in  time  to  make 
for  tea.     In  cool  weather  it  is  best  to  set  it  over  night. 


KU8K.  35 

RUSKS  AND  BUNS. 

Rusk  is  not  the  sweet  hot  biscuit  so  often  called  bj^  this  name  in 
New  England — that  is  properly  a  bun.  A  genuine  rusk  is  a 
slightl}^  sweet  dried  bread,  which  may  be  eaten  as  it  is,  crisp  and 
delicious ;  or  it  may  be  soaked  in  ice-cold  milk,  with  an  accom- 
paniment of  berries  and  the  richest  and  best  of  cream  cheese.  It 
is  an  ideal  summer  dish,  served  with  cream  and  berries.  There 
are  two  kinds  of  rusk,  that  which  is  sweet  and  that  which  is  made 
without  sweetening. 

GENUINE  RUSK. 

1  quart  flour,  Yz  cup  butter, 

1  cup  scalded  milk,  Yz  cup  yeast, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  milk,  beating  it  into  the 
flour.  It  should  form  as  thick  a  batter  as  can  be  well  stirred. 
Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  stirring  them  in  one  by  one  while  the 
mixture  is  lukewarm,  then  the  salt,  and  finally  the  3'east.  Beat 
the  batter  well.  Let  it  rise  1 0  hours.  Then  turn  out  on  a  board 
dusted  with  flour.  Dredge  the  risen  mass  with  flour  and  knead 
until  it  ceases  to  cling  to  the  hand.  It  will  require  fifteen  or 
twent}'  minutes'  vigorous  kneading.  Let  rise  again,  then  roll  out 
about  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  cut  into  small,  round  biscuit 
shapes.  Place  these  on  floured  tins  and  let  rise  three-fourths  of 
an  hour  before  putting  them  in  the  oven.  They  should  be  well 
covered  in  the  biscuit  tins.  Bake  the  rusks  from  15  to  20  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven.  Split  while  still  warm  and  put  into  a  slow 
oven  or  into  the  heating  closet  of  the  range  till  perfectly  crisp  and 
dr}^  through  and  through.  They  may  then  be  put  in  a  loose  bag 
and  hung  up  in  a  dry  place  to  gain  perfection.  In  two  weeks 
they  will  be  ready  to  use,  though  they  will  be  delicious  in  three 
days.  To  make  a  sweet  rusk  add  at  least  1  cup  of  sugar  to  the 
above  rule.  These  rusks  should  be  evenly  and  regularly  browned 
throughout. 

RUSK — 1. 

2  cups  raised  dough,  Yz  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs. 

Cinnamon. 
Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beating  in  the  eggs,  and  add- 


36  RUSK. 

ing  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Set  to  rise,  and  when  light, 
mould  into  high  biscuit  and  let  rise  again ;  sift  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon  over  the  top,  and  place  in  oven. 

RUSK — 2. 
1  pint  milk,  1  cup  butter, 

3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  large  cup  potato  yeast. 
Use  flour  to  make  a  thick  sponge ;  in  the  morning  stir  down,  let 
rise,  and  stir  down  again ;  when  it  rises  make  into  a  loaf,  and  let 
rise  again ;  then  roll  out  like  soda  biscuit,  cut  and  put  in  pans, 
and,  when  light,  bake  carefully ;  or  make  into  rather  high  and  nar- 
row biscuit,  let  rise  again,  rub  the  tops  with  a  little  sugar  and 
water,  then  sprinkle  over  them  dry  sugar.     Bake  20  minutes. 

CREAM   RUSK. 

1  pint  warm  water,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  rich  cream,  1  cup  yeast. 

Flour  for  stiff  batter. 

Let  rise  over  night  and  work  down  several  times.  When  ready 
to  bake,  roll  and  cut  in  small  cakes,  put  in  a  buttered  pan,  let 
rise  and  bake.     Sprinkle  with  sugar  when  taken  from  the  oven. 

LEBANON    RUSK. 

1  cup  potatoes,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs, 

X  cup  butter  and  lard. 

Mash  the  potatoes,  add  the  sugar,  homemade  yeast,  and  eggs ; 

mix  together,  let  rise,  and  add  the  butter,  lard,  and  flour  enough  to 

make  a  soft  dough  ;  when  risen  again,  mould  into  small  cakes,  and 

let  them  rise  before  baking.     If  wanted  for  tea,  set  about  9  A.  M. 

BUNS. 
1  cup  milk,  Yz  cup  yeast, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

Yi  cup  butter,  Currants, 

Cinnamon. 
Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  Q%g,  milk  and  yeast, 
flavor  with  cinnamon;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let 
rise  till  very  light,  tlien  rjould  into  biscuit  with  a  few  currants. 
Let  rise  a  second  time  in  pan;  bake,  and,  when  nearly  done, 
glaze  with  a  little  molasses  and  milk.  Use  the  same  cup,  no  mat- 
ter about  the  size,  for  each  measure. 


BANNOCK.  37 

SCOTCH    CURRANT    BANNOCK. 

2  pounds  raisins,  1  heaping  cup  lard  and  butter, 

2  pounds  currants,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  caraway  seed, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  finely  cut  orange  peel. 

Clean  seedless  raisins  and  currants  and  leave  in  a  colander  over 
night  to  drain.  Set  a  sponge  in  the  evening  as  for  two  loaves  of 
bread,  using  1  cup  yeast.  In  the  morning  when  the  sponge  is 
very  light,  sift  the  flour  into  a  large  pan,  and  rub  the  shortening 
into  it.  Mix  in  sugar,  caraway  seed  and  orange  peel,  then  add 
raisins  and  currants  which  must  be  perfectly''  dr}'.  Stir  all  to- 
gether thoroughly  and  knead  like  bread,  adding  more  flour  if  nec- 
essary, and  put  back  in  the  pan  to  rise.  When  light  knead  down 
and  put  into  a  large,  round  baking  pan.  After  rising  bake  very 
carefully  for  2  hours  at  least,  and  in  some  cases  longer  as  ovens 
diflier.  If  the  top  bakes  too  rapidly  cover  with  a  pie  tin.  The 
butter  bannock  for  which  Selkirk  is  noted  is  made  by  omitting  the 
raisins,  currants  and  orange  peel. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE& 

2  cups  blueberries,  1  egg, 

3  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
lyi  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  the  salt,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  flour  together.  Stir  in 
milk  and  melted  butter,  then  the  well-beaten  egg^  and  last  the  blue- 
berries.     Bake  in  cups  or  gem  pans. 

BREAKFAST  CAKE 1. 

1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  each  lard  and  butter, 

ly^  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Rub  the  shortening  and  salt  through  the  flour,  with  the  hands  ; 
beat  the  eggs  light,  and  add  to  them  1^  cups  of  milk ;  stir  this 
into  the  flour.  If  not  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  add  a  little 
more  milk;  knead  well  with  the  hands  10  minutes,  roll  into  cakes 
about  half  an  inch  thick  and  as  large  around  as  a  pie  plate ;  put 
on  well-buttered  pie  plates,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  At  table 
do  not  cut  these  cakes,  but  break  them. 


38  JOHNIsY  CAKE. 

HOB   CAKE. 

I  plot  corn  meal,  K  teaspoon  sail. 

Water. 
Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  the  meal  to  moisten  it  Add 
salt  and  let  stand  10  minutes.  Then  add  boiling  water  until  lae 
batter  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Bake  in  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle 
greased  with  fat  salt  pork.  Serve  hot  with  a  piece  of  butter  on 
the  top  of  each  cake.     This  was  formerly  a  famous  Southern  dish. 

COTTAGE  CAKES. 

1  cnp  sour  cream,  %  teaspoon  soda, 

2  large  cups  flour,  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartaff 
}4  teaspoon  salt,                   1  egg. 

Sift  the  soda,  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  into  the  flour;  stir  in  the 
cream  and  the  well-beaten  egg.  Drop  into  buttered  pans  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  20  mmutes. 

NEW  ENGLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE — 1. 
2  cups  milk,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 

2  cups  Indian  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  flour,  3  eggs, 

}4  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  then  the  milk, 
meal,  and  salt,  and  finally  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Mix 
quickly  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  hot  oven. 

NEW  ENGLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE 2, 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  1  eggj 

1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

}4  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 

1  tablespoon  white  sugar. 
Sift  salt  and  meal,  also  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  together ;  add 
sugar,  mix  well.  Dissolve  soda  in  milk,  beating  1  minute,  add 
cream,  and  stir  the  ingredients  together,  beating  3  minutes. 
Lastly  add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick 
oven. 

GOOD   JOHNNY   CAKE. 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
^  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

3  tablespoons  melted  batter. 


JOHNNY  CAKE.  39 

Mix  meal,  flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together;  break  an 
egg  into  a  pint  bowl  of  cold  water ;  mix,  add  the  meal  and  butter. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

JOHNNY   CAKE 1. 

1  pint  buttermilk,  3  eggs, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  K  teaspoon  salt. 

White  corn  meal. 
Make  a  thin  batter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

JOHNNY    CAKE 2. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  or  2  eggs, 

1  cup  Indian  meal,  X  teaspoon  salt, 

}^  cup  flour,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  small  teaspoon  soda. 
Beat  the  egg  and  sugar,  add  salt  and  cream ;  if  necessary  sour 
or  sweet  milk  can  be  used  in  place  of  cream.     If  milk  is  used  add 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  stir  in  meal  and  flour  rapidly,  and 
bake  30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     With  sweet  milk  use  1 J  heap 
ing  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

JOHNNY  CAKE 3. 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  tablespoon  cream, 

1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

2  cups  sour  milk,  1  tablespoon  shortening, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
Stir  the  sugar,  cream  and  shortening  together,  and  the  egg,  well 
beaten ;  add  the  milk,  in  which  the  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water,  has  been  stirred.  If  the  milk  is  very  sour  more  soda  will  be 
needed ;  add  the  meal,  beating  smooth,  and  stir  in  wheat  flonr  to 
make  it  thick.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

WHITE   JOHNNY  CAKE 4. 

2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  white  meal,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1>^  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt 

K  cup  sugar,  1  egg. 

Mix  rapidl}',  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CRACKERS. 

2  quarts  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 

1  teat^pooQ  salt,  Milk  or  water  to  mi£ 


40  CRACKERS. 

Beat  well  and  mix  in  more  flour  until  brittle,  roll  quite  thin  and 
cut  in  squares,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

EGG  CRACKERS. 

IS  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  6  eggs, 

6  tablespoons  butter,  }i  teaspoon  soda. 

Mould  with  flour  half  an  hour  and  roll  thin. 

FRENCH  CRACKERS. 

IK  pounds  sugar,  %  pound  butter, 

IK  pounds  flour,  5  eggs,  whites^ 

Before  cooking  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  and  dip  in  sugar. 

EGO  CRACKNELS. 
1  quart  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

5  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  4  eggs. 

Sift  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour  together ;  rub  in  the 
butter  and  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flour  the  moulding  board, 
put  the  dough  on  it,  and  knead  rapidly  a  few  minutes.  Cover 
with  a  damp  towel  15  minutes;  roll  out  very  thin,  about  one- 
eighth  of  an  inch,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  When  all  are  cut 
out  have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling,  and  a  large  bowl  of  cold  water. 
Put  a  few  at  a  time  into  the  boiling  water.  When  they  come  to 
the  surface  and  curl  over  at  the  edges,  take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer and  drop  into  the  cold  water.  When  all  are  done,  lay  on 
baking  pans  and  bake  them  in  a  pretty  hot  oven  15  minutes. 
This  is  an  old  recipe. 

CRACKNELS. 

1  pint  milk,  2  ounces  butter, 

1  tablespoon  yeast. 

Warm  the  milk  and  mix  enough  fine  flour  to  make  a  light 

dough;  roll  thin  and  cut  in  long  pieces,  2  inches  broad.     Prick 

well,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

CRUMPETS — 1. 
3  cups  raised  dough,  3  eggs, 

yi  cup  butter,  Milk. 

With  the  hand  work  eggs  and  melted  butter  into  the  dough ; 
add  sufficient  milk  to  leave  it  a  thick  batter ;  pour  it  into  a  but- 
tered pan  ;  let  it  remain  half  an  hour.  Then  put  the  pan  over  the 
fire  and  heat  it  so  as  to  scorch  the  flour.     Bake  half  an  hour. 


CRUMPETS.  41 

CRUMPETS 2. 

1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  yoast,  4  tablespoons  butter, 

3  cups  of  flour,  or  more. 
Scald  milk,  and  while  warm,  add  salt  and  flour ;  beat  well  and 
add  the  melted  butter  and  3'east.  After  beating  thoroughl}^,  cover 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  In  2  hours,  if  ver}'  light,  put 
into  large,  well-greased  muffin  rings  placed  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Drop  in  the  batter  till  the  rings  are  half  full.  Bake  brown  on  one 
side,  then  turn  and  brown  the  other.  Take  oflf,  spread  with  butter 
and  serve  hot.  If  cold,  these  can  be  used  by  toasting  on  both 
sides,  spreading  with  butter  and  serving  hot. 

ENGLISH  CRUMPETS. 
1  quart  warm  milk,  1^  cup  yeast, 

3^  cup  butter,  Flour, 

Salt. 
Make  a  batter,  not  ver^^  stiff,  of  the  milk,  salt,  j-east,  and  floiu*. 
When  light  add  the  butter,  melted,  let  stand  20  minutes,  and  bake 
in  cups  or  muflSn  rings. 

FROGS. 

1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

Pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make 
into  a  stiff  batter.     Drop  with  a  spoon  into  a  pan  and  bake  in  the 

oven. 

GEMS  AND  MUFFINS. 

Few  know  how  necessary  care  is  in  the  making  and  baking  of 
gems,  and  that  often  the  recipes  which  they  find  unreliable  would 
prove  very  different  if  they  were  rightly  used.  The  harder  the 
batter  is  stirred  the  better.  Put  the  gem  pans  on  top  of  the 
stove  and  drop  a  little  lard  into  the  bottom  of  each  to  keep  the 
gems  from  sticking.  When  the  pans  have  become  piping  hot,  fill 
each  half  full  of  batter  while  on  the  stove,  then  put  them  at  once 
into  a  hot  oven.  Make  a  hotter  fire  for  baking  gems  than  for  any- 
thing else.  If  the  oven  is  right,  the  gems  will  rise  until  about 
three  times  as  large  as  when  put  into  the  oven,  and  but  a  few 
minutes  will  be  required  for  baking  them.  Everything  should 
be  about  ready  for  the  table,  for,  to  be  very  nice,  gems  must  be 


42  GEMS. 

served  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  from  the  oven.     These  direc- 
tions appl}^  for  muffins. 

BANANA  GEMS. 
1  cup  sugar,  K  cup  water, 

1  cup  flour,  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Make  batter  and  stir  in  2  bananas  sliced  thin.  Fill  cups  half 
full  and  steam  an  hour.     Eat  with  thin  cream. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS 1. 

1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  cup  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

%  cup  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

}i  cup  butter,  3  eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  first  alone,  then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  to  a 
cream ;  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  milk,  and  flour  with  the  baking 
powder,  salt  and  meal,  all  sifted  together  twice.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  half  an  hour,  if  in  deep  gem  pans ;  or  25  minutes,  if  in  shal- 
low pans. 

CORN  MEAL    GEMS — 2. 
1  cup  Indian  meal,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

}4  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  add  butter  and  salt ;  then  the 
milk  with  soda  dissolved  in  it,  and  mix  with  flour  and  meal. 
Sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  can  be  used,  if  desired.  Beat  hard 
for  a  few  minutes,  drop  from  the  spoon  into  hot  buttered  gem 
pans,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS 3. 

1  pint  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
}4  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  eggs,  Corn  meal. 

Make  batter  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  poured.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a 
little  of  the  milk.  Have  the  pans  very  hot,  and  fill  them  but  half 
full.     The  gems  will  bake  in  15  minutes. 

CORN  MEAL   GEMS 4. 

2  cups  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  sugar  or  molasses,       1  tablespoon  butter. 


GEMS.  43 

Mix  meal,  flour  and  sugar  with  enough  water  to  moisten  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  stir  thorough!}-,  and  add  the 
dissolved  soda,  salt  and  butter.  Drop  the  mixture  in  hot  gem 
irons,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 1. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  H  teaspoon  soda, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg, 

%  graham  and  X  white  flour. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  Qgg,  adding  salt  and  melted  butter,  then  the 
milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  make  a  batter  stiff 
enough  to  drop,  in  a  soft  ball,  from  the  spoon.  Bake  20  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 2. 

2  quarts  buttermilk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
1  tablespoon  butter,                                 1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  eggs. 

Use  as  much  graham  flour  as  is  needed  for  a  stiff  batter.  The 
harder  it  is  beaten,  the  lighter  will  be  the  gems  when  done. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 3. 

Make  a  stiff  batter  with  1  pint  warm  water,  graham  flour  and  1 
teaspoon  salt.  Fill  the  pans  two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven. 

GRAHAM   GEMS 4. 

1)4  pints  graham  flour  K  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  teaspoon  melted  butter,     1  egg, 

Sweet  milk  for  batter. 

Have  the  gem  pans  hot,  fill  them  half  full  of  the  batter,  and 
bake  until  nicely  browned,  but  not  sticky  when  broken  open,  in  a 
very  hot  oven. 

''ENTIRE    wheat"  FLOUR   GEMS. 
IK  cups  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  %  teaspoon  soda, 
1%  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  1  egg. 

Beat  Qcrcr  with  sujiar,  add  the  melted  butter,  salt,  the  milk  ki 
which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  the  flour.  Bake  in  hot 
gem  pans,  well  greased.      This  can  be  varied  by  using  2  eggs  and 


44 


GEMS. 


less  flour,  also  substituting  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  for  the 
sour  milk  and  soda. 

GEMS — 1. 
1  quart  flour,  2  eggs, 

%  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

yi  cup  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Warm  the  butter  in  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  salt,  and 
last  the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted ;  have 
irons  quite  hot  and  fill ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

GEMS — 2. 
1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  flour,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  eggs,  adding  the  melted  butter  ;  stir  into  the  milk  and  mix 
with  flour  and  baking  powder. 

OATMEAL   GEMS. 

1  pint  oatmeal  mush,  Salt, 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  Pepper, 

2  eggs. 
Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  with  the 
bread  crumbs  into  the  mush.     Then  put  it  into  well-buttered  gem 
pans,  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.     It  can  be  baked  in  one  pan  if 
desired  and  served  as  it  comes  from  the  oven. 

OATMEAL  GEMS. 

1  pint  cold,  cooked  oatmeal,  1  Q^g, 

1  pint  hot  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Rub  the  oatmeal  in  the  hot  milk  until  free  from  lumps,  and  add 
the  well-beaten  egg,  and  the  baking  powder  sifted  into  some  flour. 
Make  a  stiff  batter  and  bake  immediately. 

RAISED    OATMEAL  GEMS. 
1  quart  flour,  K  cup  yeast, 

IK  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  boiled  oatmeal,  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  saltspoon  salt. 
Let  the  oatmeal  be  warm,  rub  out  any  lumps  in  the  hot  milk. 
Add  butter,  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk  gradually,  adding 
the  yeast  last  of  all ;  beat  for  8  minutes.  Let  rise  over  night,  and 
in  the  morning  warm  the  pans  slightly,  butter,  fill  about  two-thirds 
full  and  let  rise  1  hour.     Bake  well  in  a  hot  oven. 


45 


VIRGINIA    PONE. 

1  quart  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Make  a  thin  batter,  adding  the  well-beaten  eggs  just  before 
pouring  into  pans.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

OAT    CAKE. 

K  pound  oatmeal,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

4  tablespoons  water. 
Mix  all  together.      Roll  as  thin  as  possible  from  a  stiff  dough. 
Cut  in  rounds  or  squares  and  bake  on  ungreased  tins.      Prick  with 
a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

POP-OVERS. 

These  favorite  breakfast  and  teacakes  are  made  much  the  same 
way,  except  that  some  housewives  prefer  to  beat  the  3'olks  and 
whites  of  the  eggs  separately ;  both  methods  ma}'  be  tried,  and 
the  one  chosen  for  future  use  which  is  preferred.  The  same  pre- 
cautions are  taken  in  preparing  the  buttered  cups  and  a  proper 
oven  heat,  in  avoiding  the  opening  of  the  oven  at  first,  and  in 
baking  the  little  cakes  until  their  sides  are  brown.  The  general 
proportions  are  equal  parts  of  flour  and  sweet  milk,  a  saltspoon 
of  salt  and  1  Q^g  to  each  cup  of  flour ;  the  cups  for  baking  are 
filled  about  one-third.  One  pint  or  two  cups  each  of  flour  and 
milk  will  make  two  dozen  pop-overs ;  the  number  one  can  eat  is 
limited  onl}'  by  capacity. 

BUCKEYE    POP-OVERS. 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 

2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  saltspoon  salt. 

"Warm  the  butter  in  the  milk,  add  salt  and  stir  in  the  eggs  and 

flour.     Bake  in  very  hot  cups  or  gem  pans  20  minutes  in  a  quick 

oven. 

POTATO   CAKE. 
1  cup  mashed  potato,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.      Butter  the  spider  well  and 


46  PUFFS. 

when  hot  put  in  the  cake  and  cover  closely.     Turn  it  once  and 
serve  as  soon  as  done. 

GRAHAM   PUFFS. 
1  quart  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  pint  graham  flour,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

1  pint  wheat  flour,  3  eggs. 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  milk,  and  pour  on  to  the  flour,  to  which  salt 
and  baking  powder  have  been  added.  Beat  hard  for  1  minute, 
pour  into  hot  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  20  to  30 
minutes. 

PUFFS — 1. 
1  teacup  milk,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

3^  teacup  flour,  1  egg. 

Mix  flour  and  salt,  and  stir  into  the  milk  and  egg.  Pour  batter 
into  the  gem  pans  and  bake  30  minutes. 

PUFFS — 2. 
1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

K  pint  flour,  3  eggs, 

1  saltspoon  salt. 
Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  salt  and  melted  butter  and  stir 
in  the  flour  and  milk.     Have  gem  pans  or  stone  cups  very  hot, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  or  25  minutes. 

RAISED  PUFFS. 

If  the  wheat  bread  is  light  enough  for  the  oven  at  breakfast 
time,  have  ready  some  hot  lard  in  a  deep  kettle ;  with  the  thumb 
and  two  fingers  pull  out  some  of  the  dough  quite  thin,  and  cut  it 
some  2  or  3  inches  in  length ;  as  these  pieces  are  cut,  drop  them 
in  the  lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts.  To  be  eaten  like  biscuit  or 
serve  in  a  vegetable  dish  with  a  dressing  of  hot  cream  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

BOSTON  RICE    CAKES. 
1  cup  hot  rice,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  Salt  to  taste, 

4  tablespoons  flour. 

Boil  a  cup  of  rice,  and  while  hot  stir  into  it  butter  and  salt. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  and  stir  them  into 
the  rice.  Thicken  with  flour,  and  bake  in  muflSn  rings  or  on  a 
delicately  greased  griddle. 


WAFFLES.  47 

WAFFLES. 
1  pint  milk,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

}4  cup  butter,  3  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  when  cool,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  and  salt,  stirring  in  the  flour  graduallj'.  Beat  well  and  add 
the  stiflf  whites.  The  batter  should  not  be  beaten  after  the  whites 
are  in.     Bake  immediately. 

CORN  MEAL  WAFFLES. 
1  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  cup  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

2  eggs. 
Scald  the  meal ;  while  hot  add  lard  or  butter,  then  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  flour  enough  to  make  a  not  too  stiff'  batter.     Bake 
over  a  very  hot  fire. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

2  pints  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  cup  melted  butter,                                   6  eggs, 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Make  a  soft  batter  of  the  milk,  butter,  and  flour  with  the  salt 
added,  add  the  well-beaten  3'olks,  then  the  whites,  and,  just  before 
baking,  the  baking  powder.     These  are  good  with  fewer  eggs. 

PLAIN   WAFFLES. 
IK  pints  cold  milk.  1  saltspoon  salt, 

1)4  pints  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

4  teaspoons  butter,  3  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  put  salt  and  baking  powder  into  the 
flour,  mix  all  well  together;  add  last  of  all  the  eggs,  very  thor- 
oughly beaten.  This  recipe  can  be  used  for  rice  or  hominy  waf- 
fles b}'  adding  1  cup  of  either  boiled  rice  or  hominy.  Remember 
in  the  case  of  mufHns  and  waffles,  as  well  as  bread  and  rolls,  that 
if  moist  flour  is  used,  more  must  be  added  to  the  amount  named. 

RAISED    WAFFLES. 

1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  /<  cup  yeast. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together  ;  beat  the  eggs  and  add  them 
alternately  with  the  flour  ;  stir  in  the  3'east  and  salt.  When  risen, 
heat  the  irons  and  butter  them,  pour  in  some  of  the  batter  and 
brown  on  both  sides.  Butter  and  serve  with  or  without  sugar  and 
cinnamon. 


An  CKULLCRS* 

RICE    WAFFLES — 1. 
1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

2li  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

I  cup  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

}4  cup  yeast,  2  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  add  1  egg,  well  beaten,  with  sugar 
and  salt.  Mix  the  rice  very  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and 
yeast.  Beat  well  and  let  rise  over  night,  or  if  set  in  the  morning, 
all  day.     Add  1  egg,  well  beaten,  before  baking. 

RICE    WAFFLES— 2. 
IK  pints  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1>^  pints  flour,  1  tablespoon  butterf 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

3  eggs. 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  adding  the  melted  butter,  and 
rubbing  in  the  rice  and  salt.     Stir  soda  into  the  milk,  and  add 
with  the  flour.     Mix  well  and  bake  immediately. 

CRULLEKS  AND  DOUGHNUTS. 
Directions  for  boiling  fat.  — Put  into  a  rather  deep  kettle  2  or  3 
pounds  lard  or  beef  suet,  prepared  for  boiling.     The  article  to  be 
cooked  must  be  completely  covered.     Test  the  heat  of  the  fat. 
When  it  simmers,  throw  in  a  bit  of  bread ;  if  it  browns  directly, 
the  fat  is  hot  enough ;  if  it  burns  set  the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.     Should  there  be  danger  of  burning  while  cooking,  drop 
into  the  fat  a  piece  of  raw  potato.     Doughnuts,  like  fritters, 
should  cook  in  8  minutes.     If  the  bit  of  dough  used  to  test  the 
heat  is  slow  in  rising  to  the  surface,  wait  till  the  heat  has  increased. 
Make  the  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.     When  done,  drain 
well  in  a  skimmer  and  place  in  a  colander,  or  lay  for  a  moment  on 
a  piece  of  soft,  thick  paper.     The  use  of  eggs  prevents  the  dough 
from  absorbing  fat.     Doughnuts  should  be  watched  closely  while 
frying.     After  using  the  fat  cut  a  potato  in  slices  and  put  in  the 
fat  to  clarify  it,  place  the  kettle  away  until  the  fat  settles,  strain 
into  an  earthen  jar  kept  for  this  purpose,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
Fry  in  an  iron  kettle,  the  common  skillet  being  too  shallow  for 
the  purpose.     Crullers  are  better  the  day  after  the^^  are  made.     If 
lard  is  not  fresh  and  sweet,  slice  a  raw  potato,  and  fry  before  put- 
ting in  the  cakes. 


CRULLERS.  ^g 

PREPARED    SUET. 

Use  only  beef  suet,  which  is  quite  cheap,  cleanly  and  healthy. 
Buy  nice,  whole,  clean  leaves,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces,  put 
into  a  pot,  which  will  hold  ten  pounds,  add  a  pint  of  water,  and 
after  the  first  hour  stir  frequently ;  it  takes  about  three  hours  with 
a  good  heat  to  render  it  Drain  through  a  coarse  towel,  and  if  the 
suet  is  good  it  will  require  but  little  squeezing,  and  leave  but  little 
scrap  or  cracklings.  Put  to  cool  in  pans  or  jars.  It  is  cheaper 
and  more  wholesome  than  lard.  Save  also  all  the  fat  from  beef, 
both  raw  or  cooked.  Put  in  a  frying  pan  with  just  enough  water 
to  keep  from  burning.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire  till  all  is  melted. 
After  a  few  minutes  add  a  few  slices  of  potato,  let  stand  5  min- 
utes, take  off  the  fire  to  settle,  and  strain  it  into  jars.  Fat  pre- 
pared in  this  way  will  keep  a  long  time,  if  covered  closely  after 
using  from  it. 

CRULLERS — 1. 

5  tablespoons  melted  lard,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  3  eggs 

Powdered  sugar. 
Beat  the  eggs  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  ;  add  the  lard,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick.  Use  as  little  as  possible 
in  preparing  for  boiling.  Cut  them  in  any  shape  desired.  Drop 
carefully  into  the  lard,  turn  them  when  ready,  and  as  soon  as 
cooked  lay  on  brown  paper.  When  dry,  powder  with  sugar. 
These  are  very  nice  if  not  made  too  stiff. 

CRULLERS — 2. 

1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs, 
%  cup  butter,                                                              Flour. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
flour  ;  make  very  soft,  and  roll  out  one-half  thick.  Make  into  anj^ 
fancy  shape.  Boil  in  the  hot  fat,  and  when  dry  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them. 

CRULLERS — 3. 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  Pinch  of  soda, 
2  tablespoons  cream  or  butter,  Pinch  of  salt, 

2  eggs. 
Mix  cream  or  butter  and  sugar,  add  salt,  the  well-beaten  eggs 
and  soda,  flavor  to  taste,  and  stir  in  sufficient  flour  to  roll  out  one- 


50  DOUGHNUTS. 

half  inch  thick  on  the  board.     Use  as  little  flour  in  handling  as 
possible,  and  fiy  immediately. 

CREAM   DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sour  croam,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

3  oggrs. 
Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together,  add  cream  and  soda,  salt,  any 
spice  desired,  and  Hour  enough  to  roll  out.      Cut  in  circles  with  a 
double  cutter,  and  drop  into  the  boiling  lard. 

COMMON   DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  lard  and  butter, 

1  oup  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  salt  spoon  salt,  3  eggs, 

Nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Eub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  milk,  salt,  spice,  the  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  just  enough  flour  to  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick. 
Cut  in  circles,  or  long  pieces  to  twist  and  fry  in  boiling  lai*d. 

DOUG  HN  UTS. 

3  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

6  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

3  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  together;  add  milk,  spices  and 
flour ;  make  sutru'iently  stiff  to  roll  out  one-fourth  inch  in  thick- 
ness ;  cut  in  squares,  make  3  long  incisions  in  each  square,  lift  up 
by  taking  alternate  stilps  between  the  finger  and  thumb,  and  ch'op 
into  hot  lard. 

riECRUST  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  teacup  sour  dough,  3  eggs, 

^4  cup  sugar,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

}4  teaspoon  soda,  U  nutmeg, 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough. 

The  sour  dough  used  for  wetting  is  prepared  as  follows:  Save 
the  bits  of  pie  crust  left  from  baking,  add  just  enough  sweet  milk 
to  cover,  and  put  in  a  warm  i>laee  to  become  sour.  When  the 
doughnuts  are  mixed,  rolled  and  cutout,  let  tliem  lie  on  the  board 
until  they  begin  to  rise,  then  fry  in  boiling  lard.  The  dough  must 
be  as  soft  as  can  be  easily  handled. 


FRITTERS.  ^i 

CANNED  CORN  FRITTERS. 

1  ponnd  canned  corn,  1  teasiwon  salt, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  eggs, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  stir  all  the  ingredients  together,  adding 
enough   flour   to   make   a   stiff   batter.     Fry  like  other   fritters. 
Serve  without  a  sauce. 

CREAM  FRITTERS. 

IK  pints  flour,  6  eggs, 

1  pint  milk,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

1  pint  cream.  Nutmeg. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  add  3'olks  to  the 
milk,  then  the  flour,  salt,  the  whites,  and  lastly  the  cream.  Stir 
the  whole  enough  to  mix  the  cream  ;  fry  in  small  cakes. 

FRUIT    FRITTERS. 

1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 

1  cup  fruit  juice  or  milk,  2  eggs, 
Pinch  of  salt. 
Beat  whites  and  3'olks  of  the  eggs  separately ;  mix  yolks  with 
the  flour  and  salt,  stirring  in  milk  and  butter  till  a  smooth  batter 
the  consistency  of  thick  cream  is  formed.  Then  add  the  stiflfly- 
beaten  whites.  Dip  fruit  in  this  and  boil  in  lard.  Apples  should 
be  al)out  half  cooked  before  using,  otherwise  they  will  be  but  par- 
tially cooked  when  the  fritter  is  done. 

HOMINY   FRITTERS. 

1  cup  boiled  hominy,  2  eggs, 

I  cup  flour,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

K  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs  and  salt,  add  the  hominy  and  milk  well  mixed,  and 
the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Drop  in 
spoonfuls  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  to  a  rich  brown.  Serve  with 
lemon  sauce. 

LEMON  FRITTERS. 

yz  pound  flour,  ^  pound  eggs, 

K  pound  sugar,  8  tablespoons  milk, 

Juice  and  }4  grated  peel  of  a  lemon. 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  flour  and  milk ;  beat 

whites  stiff  with  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  some  of  the  yellow 

peel  grated  off,  or  extract  of  lemon.      Beat  the  whites  well  into 


52 


FRITTERS. 


the  batter  and  proceed  to  cook.  Have  plenty  of  good  lard,  heated 
slowly;  just  as  it  begins  to  smoke,  after  bubbling,  drop  in.  by 
spoonfuls  enough  fritters  to  fill  the  vessel  without  crowding.  The 
cold  batter  will  lower  the  temperature  of  the  fat  sufficiently  to 
keep  it  at  proper  cooking  heat.  The  fritters  will  begin  to  brown 
very  quickly,  and  should  be  turned  with  a  wire  spoon.  If  they 
begin  to  color  dark  brown,  check  the  heat  immediately.  If  these 
directions  are  followed  accurately,  they  may  be  lifted  from  the  fat 
and  laid  upon  a  napkin  or  folded  paper  comparatively  free  from 
grease.  Fritters  bear  a  bad  reputation,  but  when  properly  made, 
and  eaten  occasionally  for  a  change,  are  quite  as  wholesome  as 
many  of  the  dishes  recommended  as  food  for  dyspeptics. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS. 

1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  oil  or  melted  butter, 

1  egg,  j4  teaspoon  salt, 

}^  cup  water,  Valencia  oranges. 

It  is  better  to  prepare  the  batter,  except  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
on  the  morning  before  the  day  the  fritters  are  to  be  made.  Put 
the  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg,  salt,  and  oil 
or  butter,  with  water  enough  to  make  a  rather  thick  fritter  batter. 
This  part  of  the  batter  French  cooks  think  improved  by  standing 
two  or  three  days.  Just  before  using,  add  the  white  of  1  egg, 
beaten  as  stiff  as  possible.  Then  cut  the  oranges  across  in  circles ; 
remove  the  yellow  peel  and  the  seeds  from  each,  but  do  not  take 
the  pulp  from  the  inner  skin ;  leave  the  orange  circles  together  in 
a  dish.  Coat  each  slice  of  orange  completely  in  the  batter,  and 
plunge  it  at  once  in  boiling  fat.  As  soon  as  the  fritters  are 
browned  well  lift  them  out  of  the  fat,  with  a  wire  spoon,  to  drain. 
Lay  them  for  a  moment  on  coarse  brown  paper,  such  as  bakers  use, 
to  absorb  the  fat  on  the  outside  of  the  fritter.  Dredge  them  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  at  once,  with  a  little  cut  lemon  and 
powdered  sugar. 

ORANGE,   PEACI     OR    PINEAPPLE    FRITTERS. 

2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  'A  teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs. 
Melt   butter,  add  to  the    vater  with   salt   and   the  well-beaten 


FRITTERS. 


53 


yolks ;  stir  in  the  flour,  and  just  before  using  add  the  whites 
beaten  stiflT.  Peel  and  quarter  small,  sweet  oranges  and  lay  in 
sweetened  cream,  add  a  little  gi*ated  orange  peel  to  the  batter  be- 
fore frying.  Peaches  should  be  pared,  pitted,  and  halved  before 
putting  into  the  cream.  Pare  the  pineapple,  pick  in  large  pieces 
from  the  core  and  drop  into  the  cream.  The  fruit  should  lie  in 
the  cream  1  hour  before  putting  into  the  batter  preparatory  to  fry- 
ing. Cover  the  pieces  of  fruit  with  the  batter  and  drop  into  boil- 
ing hot  lard.  Fr}'  till  delicately  browned.  Take  up  on  coarse 
brown  paper,  la}^  off  on  a  platter,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them 
and  serve  at  once. 

OYSTER   FRITTERS 1. 

Make  batter  as  for  Plain  Fritters  and  use  the  oyster  liquor  in- 
stead of  milk.  Omit  the  salt.  Dip  03''sters  in  the  batter,  and 
boil  in  lard,  sei-ving  at  once.  Lay  slices  of  lemon  on  them  as 
served. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS 2. 

Make  batter  as  in  No.  1,  but  chop  oysters  and  mix  in  batter  in- 
stead of  frying  whole.  Less  flour  will  be  needed  in  the  batter,  for 
it  must  be  quite  thin.     Cook  and  serve  as  in  No.  1. 

PARSNIP   FRITTERS. 

Scrape  and  lay  in  cold  salted  water  half  an  hour.  Put  in  salted 
boiling  water,  and  cook  till  tender.  Allow  from  30  to  45  minutes 
for  3'oung  parsnips,  and  from  15  to  30  minutes  longer  if  old  ones. 
If  old,  peel  and  split  before  boiling.  When  cooked  cut  in  finger 
strips,  dip  in  batter,  the  Plain  Batter  recipe  is  good,  and  fry  till 
well  puffed  and  brown  in  very  hot  and  deep  lard.  The  batter 
should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape  when  dropped  from  the 
spoon. 

PEACH  FRITTERS. 

If  fresh,  peel,  stone,  and  halve  the  peaches.  Spread  sugar  over 
them  and  grated  lemon  peel  if  liked.  Set  away  2  hours  in  a  cov- 
ered dish.  Make  batter  for  Fruit  Fritters,  using  the  juice  or  S3Tup 
from  the  canned  peaches  in  place  of  milk.  Dip  the  peaches  singly 
in  the  batter.  Cover  well  and  fry  in  the  boiliug  fat.  When  a 
fine  brown  take  out  with  a  wire  spoon  and  place  on  brown  paper  in 


54  FRITTERS. 

the  open  oven.     Serve  with  powdered  sugar,  or  a  fruit  sauce. 
Either  fresh  or  canned  peaches  may  be  used. 

PINEAPPLE    FRITTERS. 

Pick  or  grate  fresh  pineapple.  Spread  over  with  sugar  and  set 
away  2  hours.  Take  juice  of  this,  or  syrup  of  canned  pineapple 
for  the  liquid  used  in  making  the  batter  for  Fruit  Fritters.  Stir 
pineapple  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  with  a 
fruit  sauce  made  of  sugar,  raisins,  and  sliced  bananas. 

POTATO    FRITTERS. 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  K  teaspoon  salt, 

K  cup  flour,  2  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  }4  pint  milk. 

Melt  butter  and  mix  with  potato;  stir  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether, adding  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Have  a  stiff  batter.  Drop 
very  carefully  into  the  lard  so  the  batter  will  not  break  in  falling. 

queen's    FRITTERS. 

1  cup  hot  water,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

yi  cup  butter,  1  slice  of  lemon, 

1  cup  flour,  3  eggs. 

Boil  butter  in  hot  water  with  sugar  and  lemon.  After  boiling 
a  few  minutes,  skim  out  the  rind  and  be  sure  that  there  is  a  cup  of 
water  left ;  if  less  than  that,  add  sufficient  to  make  it  up,  and 
while  boiling,  beat  in  the  flour.  Stir  until  smooth ;  take  off  the 
stove  and  when  cool  stir  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without  beat- 
ing. Drop  the  batter  from  a  spoon  into  boiling  lard.  Fry  to  a 
nice  brown.  These  will  puff  up  beautifully,  and  are  delicious 
with  maple  syrup. 

RICE    FRITTERS 1. 

2  cups  boiled  rice,  4  tablespoons  milk, 
1  saltspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

3  eggs. 
Beat  3"olks  of  the  eggs  well,  add  the  milk,  stir  in  the  flour 
smoothly,  and  add  all  to  the  rice,  stirring  it  in  well.  Beat  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  last.  Dip  the  batter  up  in  spoonfuls  and 
drop  into  hot  lard.  Brown  well  on  both  sides,  take  up  with  a  wire 
spoon,  and  lay  on  brown  paper  or  a  wire  sieve,  for  a  moment,  to 
drain  off  the  fat.     Serve  hot,  with  sugar  or  syrup. 


FRITTERS.  55 

RICE    FRITTERS 2. 

2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  cups  boiled  rice,  2  tablospoous  sugar, 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  the  ingi-edients  together,  adding  whites  of  eggs  last,  enough 

flour  being  used  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Drop  from  a  spoon  into 

boiling  lard  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

RICE  FRITTERS 3. 

1  cup  boiled  rice,  2  teaspoons  butter, 

1  cup  flour,  }4  saltspoon  soda, 

1  cup  milk,  %  grated  lemon  peel, 

>^  cup  Zante  currants,  3  eggs, 

}4  cup  sugar.  Grated  nutmeg. 

Mix,  adding  sugar  to  the  flour  and  stirring  in  lemon  peel,  cur- 
rants, and  a  little  nutmeg  just  before  boiling. 

ALABAMA  RICE  FRITTERS. 
1  pint  milk,  1  quart  flour, 

1  cup  boiled  rice,  4  eggs, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Make  into  a  batter;  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard,  and 
serve  with  the  following 

Sauce : 
1  pound  sugar,  1)^  cups  water. 

Stick  of  cinnamon. 
Boil  until  clear.     Serve. 

SQUASH  FRITTERS. 

IX  cups  milk,  }4  teaspoon  salt, 

1)4  cups  winter  squash,  %  saltspoon  soda, 

1  egg.  Flour  for  thick  batter. 

Mix  as  previously  directed,  add  the  smoothly  mashed  squash, 
just  before  the  whites.  Beat  the  mixture  till  very  smooth.  Fry 
as  for  other  fritters.      These  are  very  nice. 

VANITIES. 

2  eggs,  Pinch  of  salt, 

y^  teaspoon  rose-water. 

Beat  eggs,  stir  in  salt  and  rose-water,  add  sifted  flour  till  just 
thick  enough  to  roll  out,  cut  with  a  cake-cutter,  and  fry  quickly  in 
hot  lard.  Sift  powdered  sugar  on  them  while  hot,  and  when  cool 
put  a  teaspoon  of  jelly  in  the  center  of  each  one.  Nice  for  tea 
or  dessert. 


56  GEIDDLE  CAKES. 

CORN  OYSTEES 1. 

1  quart  grated  corn,  3  eggs, 

3  grated  crackers,  Pepper  and  salt. 

To  the  com  add  the  eggs  and  crackers,  beat  "well  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  have  ready  in  skillet  butter  and  lard  or  beef 
drippings  in  equal  proportions,  hot  but  not  scorching ;  drop  in 
little  cakes  about  the  size  of  an  oyster,  for  this  purpose  using  a  tea- 
spoon ;  when  brown  turn  and  fry  on  the  other  side,  watching  con- 
stantly for  fear  of  burning.  If  the  fat  is  just  the  right  heat,  the 
oysters  will  be  light  and  delicious,  but  if  not,  heavy  and  soggy. 
Serve  hot  and  keep  dish  well  covered.  It  is  better  to  beat  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  just  before  frying. 

CORN  OYSTERS 2. 

1  pint  grated  corn,  2  eggs, 

3^  cup  cream,  Pepper  and  salt, 

yi  cup  flour,  K  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Stir  cream  into  corn,  add  baking  powder'  and  flour  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  last  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Fry  in  butter,  drop- 
ping the  batter  in  spoonfuls.     Serve  very  hot  with  meats. 

GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Use,  if  possible,  a  soapstone  griddle.  Though  more  expensive 
than  iron,  it  is  nicer,  as  it  requires  no  greasing.  If  an  iron  grid- 
dle is  used,  grease  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  on  the  end  of  a 
fork.  Have  the  griddle  hot  before  beginning  to  fry  cakes.  Beat 
griddle-cakes  thoroughly  to  ensure  their  perfection.  Separate  the 
eggSj  whipping  the  yolks  to  a  thick  cream,  and  adding  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  just  before  baking.  Try  a  little  of  the  bat- 
ter first,  to  be  sure  it  is  all  right,  and  the  griddle  of  the  required 
heat.  Allow  one  tablespoon  of  batter  to  each  cake.  Buckwheat 
batter  may  be  poured  from  a  cup,  or  dip  out  carefully  with  a  large 
spoon,  placing  it  when  emptied  in  a  saucer.  If  ^  the  cakes  are 
doughy  inside,  the  griddle  is  too  hot ;  if  dry  and  tough,  it  is  not 
hot  enough.  Buckwheat  cakes  must  be  light,  thick  and  spongy. 
Many  prefer  to  bake  them  without  stirring  after  the  batter  has 
risen.  Never  turn  griddle-cakes  the  second  time  while  baking. 
When  done  lay  in  a  pile  on  a  hot  plate. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES.  57 

BATTEE   CAKES. 
3  cups  sour  milk,  3  tablespoons  butter, 

3  cups  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  soda, 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  salt  and  melted  butter,  milk,  and 
the  fidur  into  which  the  soda  has  been  sifted,  and  the  whites  just 
before  baking.  Sweet  milk  can  be  used  with  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  This  makes  three  dozen  cakes.  Less  eggs  and  more 
flour  can  be  used  if  desired. 

BATTER  CAKES  WITHOUT  MILK. 

Mix  either  flour  or  cornmeal  with  warm  water  until  of  the  con- 
sistency of  cream,  then  put  in  a  warm  place  where  it  will  sour. 
Add  bread  crumbs  from  time  to  time,  also  dough  left  from  cook- 
ing, bits  of  butter,  and  once  in  a  while  a  little  yeast.  In  the 
morning  take  as  much  as  is  needed  for  breakfast  cakes,  add  salt, 
soda  and  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  thicker  than  when  eggs 
are  used.     These  cakes  are  very  nice. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Buckwheat  flour,  when  properly  ground,  is  perfectly  free  from 
grits.  The  grain  should  be  run  through  the  smutter  with  a  strong 
blast  before  grinding,  and  the  greatest  care  taken  through  the 
whole  process.  Adulteration  with  r^'e  or  corn  cheapens  the  flour, 
but  injures  the  quality.  The  pure  buckwheat  is  best,  and  is  un- 
surpassed for  griddle  cakes,  but  as  some  do  not  like  the  simple 
flavor  of  the  buckwheat  a  variety  of  recipes  will  be  given. 

BUCKWHEAT   BATTER. 
1  pint  warm  sweet  milk,  1  cup  yeast, 

1  pint  warm  water,  2  teaspoons  salt, 

5  cups  buckwheat  flour. 
Put  one-half  the  liquid 'in  a  stone  crock,  add  buckwheat  flour 
and  beat  well  till  smooth;  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and 
water,  and  lastly  the  yeast.  Or  use  the  same  ingredients  and  pro- 
portions, adding  2  tablespoons  molasses  or  sugar.  Water  may  be 
used  instead  of  milk  and  water. 


58  TOAST. 

LEMON  TOAST. 

1  pint  milk,  3  tablespoons  flo«ir, 

2  eggs,  1  saltspoon  salt. 

Make  dry  toast.  Dip  the  slices  in  this  batter,  then  fry  quickly 
on  a  oriddle.  Put  into  a  deep  dish,  wetting  each  slice  with  the 
following  sauce,  and  pour  the  remainder  over  all. 

Sauce. 

3  eggs,  whites,  Lemon  jnice, 

K  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  water.     Serve  hot. 

MENNONITE    TOAST. 
1  pint  sweet  milk,  Pinch  of  salt, 

3  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  milk  and  salt ;  cut  slices  an  inch  thick 

from  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  remove  crust,  dip  slices  into  the  eggs 

and  milk,  fry  like  doughnuts  in  very  hot  lard  or  drippings,  till  a 

delicate   brown,  butter  and  sprinkle  with   powdered  sugar,  and 

serve  hot. 

queen's  toast. 
Add  to  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar,  a  little  salt  and 
a  well-beaten  egg ;  dip  in  this  slices  of  bread ;  if  dry,  let  it  soak  a 
minute,  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle  until  light  brown  on  each 
side.  Serve,  if  desired,  with  mixed  cinnamon  and  sugar.  This  is 
a  good  way  to  use  dry  bread. 

scrambled  toast. 
1  gill  milk,  1  teaspoon  bntter, 

Pepper,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

Parsley,  8  or  10  eggs. 

Put  butter  in  a  frying  pan  on  the  store,  add  milk,  salt,  peppec, 
and  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley.  When  it  boils,  break  into  it 
the  eo-gs.  Beat,  and  stir  them  around  until  well  mixed.  Have 
gome  slices  of  toast  dipped  in  hot  milk,  salted,  peppered  and  but- 
tered, and  laid  on  a  flat  dish.  Spread  the  scrambled  eggs  on  top 
of  the  toast,  and  serve  at  onoe. 


THOUGH  it  is  true  of  some  oook^  that,  like  poets,  they  are 
"born,  not  made,"  it  is  equally  true  that  the  great  majority 
must  learn  how  to  cook.  While  admiring  the  genius  that  from  as 
much  sugar  as  liked,  a  piece  of  butter,  a  few  eggs,  a  little  cream  or 
none  at  all,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dust  of  spice,  just  enough  soda>  all 
the  flour  needed,  evolves  the  most  delicious  dishes,  do  not  try  to 
imitate.  Ordinary  mortals  must  be  content  to  follow-  a  given 
recipe  exactly,  provided  it  comes  from  a  reliable  source,  and  bring 
experience,  common  sense,  education  and  observation  to  bear  upon 
the  making  and  baking  of  bread  and  cake ;  in  fact,  use  brains  to 
direct  in  all  departments  of  cooking,  as  well  as  in  other  work. 

General  directions :  Butter,  eggs,  and  flour  should  all  be  fresh. 
Very  salt  butter  should  be  cut  into  bits  and  freshened  in  cold 
water.  The  so-called  cooking  butter  should  never  be  used,  as  heat 
develops  its  bad  qualities. 

Keep  eggs  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  The  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs 
should  be  beaten  separately,  the  yolks  till  they  become  frothy,  and 
the  whites  so  stiff  that  they  cannot  slip  on  the  platter  or  dish  when 
turned  on  its  side.  This  requires  more  beating  than  to  turn  the 
plate  upside  down  while  the  whites  do  not  fall.  Shake  a  little  salt 
orer  the  whites  after  separating  them ;  set  in  a  very  cool  place, 
and  the  beating  will  be  more  easily  and  quickly  done.  Unused 
whites  must  not  be  beaten ;  they  will  keep  for  several  days  if  set 
in  a  cool  place.  Unused  yolks  will  keep  for  several  days  if  thor- 
oughly beaten  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  The  white  or  yolk  of  a 
medium-sized  egg  weighs  1  ounce,  a  fact  that  it  is  convenient  to 
know,  as  sometimes  the  white  or  yolk  of  -1  or  more  eggs  is  wanted 
from  several  that  have  been  put  away  together.  Flour  should  al- 
ways be  sifted  before  using,  and  it  ought  to  be  dry.  In  using 
new  flour  for  either  bread  or  cake-making,  it  can  be  ripened  for  use 
by  placing  the  quantity  intended  for  baking  in  the  hot  sun  a  few 

hours,  or  before  the  kitchen  fire.     More  or  less  flour  may  be  needed, 

59 


6U 


CAKE. 


according  to  the  climate,  or  the  kind  of  flour  used :  new-process 
flour  requires  one-eighth  less  than  other  brands. 

Soda  should  be  dissolved  either  in  a  little  boiling  water,  or  by 
beating  1  minute  in  the  milk.  Cream  of  tartar  and  baking  powder 
should  always  be  sifted  into  the  flour.  Great  exactness  should  be 
used  in  their  measurement. 

Regarding  milk,  note  this  :  Sweet  milk  makes  a  cake  that  cuts 
firmly,  like  pound  cake ;  sour  milk  makes  a  light,  spongy  cake ; 
baking  powder,  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  are  used  with  sweet 
milk,  and  with  sour  milk  onl}^  soda.  It  may  be  remarked  in  gen- 
eral, that  anything  that  can  be  made  with  sour  milk  is  better  made 
with  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  using  a  trifle  less  shortening. 

Use  powdered  sugar  for  delicate  cakes,  and  granulated  or  ' '  Cof- 
fee A  "  for  all  other  kinds.  These  are  the  best  and  most  econom- 
ical. Some  advise  brown  sugar  for  dark  cakes ;  if  used,  buy  the 
best  in  order  that  it  may  be  as  clean  and  dry  as  possible.  Unless 
otherwise  specified,  the  term  "sugar"  in  the  recipes  of  this  book 
refers  to  granulated  sugar. 

Wash  raisins  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  it  will  not  injure  them, 
and  after  draining,  spread  them  out  to  dry.  A  large  quantity  can 
be  thus  cleaned  and  kept  for  use  in  a  jar  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  To 
stone  or  seed  them,  pour  hot  water  on,  let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
and  cut  with  scissors  or  a  sharp  knife.  The  process  is  quick,  and 
the  seeds  come  out  clean. 

Citron  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices  and  short  lengths. 
Wash  currants  in  as  many  waters  as  necessary  to  thoroughly 
clean  them.  An  easy  way  is  to  put  them  into  a  coarse  sieve,  and 
set  in  a  large  pan  of  warm  water ;  stir  constantly  until  the  stems 
are  broken  off  and  have  passed  through  the  sieve,  and  the  water  is 
clean  from  dirt.  Eub  in  a  cloth  and  spread  on  platters  to  dry, 
stirring  occasionally. 

Blanch  almonds   by  pouring   over  boiling   water,  let   stand  a 
moment,  drop  in  cold  water,  and  slip  off  the  loose  skins.     Pound 
with  a  little  rose-water  to  prevent  oiling. 
Select  only  fresh,  soft  figs  for  cooking. 

In  grating  lemons  or  oranges,  use  only  the  yellow  part  of  the 
rind. 


CAKE.  61 

Cocoanut,  either  dessicated  or  the  nut,  should  be  very  fresh.  It 
is  unfit  for  use  otherwise.  To  prepare  cocoanut,  cut  a  hole  through 
the  meat  at  one  of  the  holes  in  the  end,  draw  off  the  milk,  pound 
the  nut  well  on  all  sides  to  loosen  the  meat,  crack,  take  out  meat, 
and  set  the  pieces  in  the  heater  or  in  a  cool,  open  oven  over  night, 
or  for  a  few  hours,  to  dry,  then  grate ;  if  all  is  not  used,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  after  grating,  and  spread  out  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and 
it  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Spices  are  much  purer  if  ground  in  a  spice-mill  at  home,  but 
care  must  be  used  to  thoroughly  powder  them. 

Choose  a  time  of  day  for  making  cake  when  least  liable  to 
interruptions. 

Be  exact  in  weights,  or  measurements,  and  careful  that  no  in- 
gi'edient  is  omitted. 

It  is  as  important  to  attend  well  to  the  baking  as  the  making  of 
the  cake ;  much,  even  more,  depends  on  it.  Have  a  steady  fire. 
Use  coal  or  hard  wood.  Ordinarily  it  will  not  be  necessary  if  the 
fire  is  rightly  prepared  to  add  fuel  during  baking,  but  if  it  should 
be  needed  in  a  wood  stove,  add  wood  in  small  quantities,  for  if  the 
heat  slackens  the  cake  will  be  heavy.  Most  cake  requires  a  mod- 
erate heat ;  however,  in  baking  fruit  cake,  which  requires  many 
hours,  the  oven  must  be  slow  or  the  cake  will  burn.  When  a 
sheet  of  white  paper  browns  delicately  in  the  oven  at  the  end  of  5 
minutes,  the  heat  is  right  for  sponge  cake.  Jelly  and  layer  cakes 
require  a  hot  oven  in  order  to  bake  quickly.  Careful  attention  is 
needed  to  prevent  the  edges  from  burning.  Many  test  ovens  in 
this  way :  If  the  hand  can  be  held  in  from  20  to  35  seconds,  or 
while  counting  20  or  35,  it  is  a  quick  oven  ;  from  35  to  45  seconds 
IS  moderate,  and  from  45  to  60  seconds  is  slow.  Sixty  seconds  is 
a  good  oven  for  large  fruit  cakes.  The  light  or  heavy  plate  of  the 
stove  affects  the  temperature  of  the  oven,  and  20  seconds  in  one 
oven  may  mdicate  what  would  be  30  or  35  in  another.  Each  cook 
must  ascertain  the  qualities  and  capabilities  of  her  own  stove,  in 
order  to  do  good  work.  After  putting  cake  into  the  oven  do  not 
open,  at  least  for  10  minutes,  except  for  layer  cakes.  Open  as 
seldom  as  possible,  and  with  some  cakes,  never.  Be  careful  no 
draughts  of  cold  air  from  open  window  or  door  strike  in.     Move 


62  CAKE. 

cake  very  carefully  if  necessary  to  turn,  and  shut  the  door  gently 
in  order  not  to  jar  it.  The  directions  given  for  regulating  the  heat 
of  the  oven  in  baking  bread  apply  to  cake.  Do  not  try  a  cake  to 
see  if  it  is  done,  until  sure  it  is  done.  Allow  about  30  minutes  for 
each  inch  of  thickness  if  in  a  quick  oven,  and  more  time  in  a  slow 
one.  Test  with  a  broom  splint  or  knitting-needle,  and  if  the 
dough  does  not  adhere,  it  is  done.  Settling  away  from  the  pan  a 
little,  and  stopping  its  singing,  are  other  indications  that  the  cake 
is  ready  to  leave  the  oven.  When  removed,  set  the  cake,  while  in 
the  pan,  on  an  inverted  sieve  to  cool ;  this  secures  a  free  circula- 
tion of  air  all  round  it,  and  cools  it  evenly.  Set  away,  always 
right  side  up.  A  tin  chest  or  stone  jar  is  best  to  keep  it  in. 
Coffee  cake  should  be  put  away  before  it  is  cold,  and  so  closely 
wrapped  in  a  large  napkin  that  the  aroma  will  not  be  lost. 

Before  beginning  to  mix  the  cake  see  that  the  fire  is  well  under 
way.  Grease  the  tins  thoroughly  with  a  little  lard  or  butter ;  the 
latter  has  a  tendency  to  blacken  the  surface.  Line  the  bottom 
with  paper ;  for  fruit  cake  use  from  4  to  6  layers  of  paper  on  the 
bottom,  and  1  or  more  on  the  sides  of  the  pan,  if  tin  or  iron  is 
used.  Butter  the  paper  next  the  cake.  It  is  preferable  to  use  a 
large  earthen  pan  for  fruit  cake,  and  the  turk's-head  pan,  the  one 
having  a  funnel  in  the  center,  is  especially  desirable  for  all  cakes 
requiring  a  long  or  very  uniform  baking. 

Prepare  all  the  ingredients  for  use.  Have  ready  a  large  earthen 
mixing  bowl,  which  is  much  better  than  tin.  Sift  salt,  baking 
powder,  or  cream  of  tartar  and  spice  into  the  flour.  Take  a  little 
of  the  measured  flour  and  sift  lightly  over  the  fruit  to  be  used. 
Have  the  flour  browned  previously  for  dark  cakes.  Break  and 
separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  yolks.  Bub  the  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon,  or  until  it  looks  very 
light  and  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  If  the  bowl  is  warmed  this 
can  be  more  easily  done,  but  avoid  melting  the  butter ;  add  the 
frothy  yolks,  and  a  little  flour,  beating  steadily,  then  one-half  of 
the  milk,  if  called  for,  more  flour,  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and 
the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  that  is,  till  well  mixed,  then  cut  and 
fold  in  the  previously  beaten  whites,  so  that  they  shall  be  well  in- 
corporated with  the  mixture.     There  are  4  processes  used  in  mak- 


CAKE.  03 

ing  cakes  or  working  with  eggs,  and  they  are  indicated  by  their 
names,  stirring,  beating,  cutting,  and  folding.  The  last  two 
should  always  be  used  where  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  particularly 
necessary  either  in  cakes,  creams  or  jellies.  Though  spice  is 
mixed  with  the  flour,  flavoring,  such  as  extracts  or  juices,  should 
be  added  just  before  baking.  Add  fruit  after  all  other  ingredients. 
If  but  little  fruit  is  used,  it  can  be  dropped  in  layers  while  putting 
the  mixture  in  the  pans.  The  pans  should  be  filled  only  two-thirds 
full,  leaving  room  for  the  cake  to  rise. 

Cookies,  gingersnaps,  jumbles  and  wafers  require  a  hot  oven  to 
bake  quickly.  If  they  become  moist  by  keeping,  heat  well  a  few 
minutes.     To  cut  cake  while  warm,  let  the  knife  be  hot. 

Ordinary  unused  writing  paper,  the  clean  side  of  a  letter,  the 
blank  paper  from  a  newspaper  publishing  oflSce,  or  smooth,  light 
brown  paper  like  manilla,  not  too  heavy,  are  all  suitable  for  lining 
cake  tins. 

The  usual  kitchen  measurement  for  a  cup  is  a  one-half  pint,  and 
it  will  be  so  understood  in  this  book,  except  when  otherwise  indi- 
cated. 

angel's  food. 

11  eggs,  whites,  1  cup  flour, 

114,  cups  granulated  sugar,    1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Sift  the  flour  4  times,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  sift 
again,  but  measure  before  putting  in  the  cream  of  tartar ;  sift  the 
sugar  and  measure  it ;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  on  a  large  plat- 
ter ;  on  the  same  platter  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour,  beating 
lightly  all  the  time.  Add  the  flavoring  last,  and  do  not  stop  beat- 
ing until  put  into  the  pan  to  bake.  A  pan  with  a  tube  in  the  cen- 
tre should  be  used.  Line  with  paper,  using  no  greese,  and  fill  not 
more  than  three-fourths  full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  40 
minutes.  Test  with  a  broom  splint  and  if  too  soft  let  remain  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Do  not  open  oven  till  cake  has  been  in  15 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  upside  down  to  cool.  Take  from  pan 
when  cold,  and  ice  the  bottom  if  desired. 


64  CAKE. 

ALMOND,  HICKORY  NUT  OR  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

1  pound  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  pound  flour,  K  teaspoon  salt, 

1^  pound  butter,  1  grated  cocoanut,  or 

4  eggs,  1  pint  hickory  nuts,  or 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  pint  blanched  almonds. 

Mix  all  thoroughly,  grate  in  the  white  part  of  a  cocoanut,  or  stir 
in  1  pint  of  hickory  nuts,  or  blanched  almonds  pounded. 

BEAUTIFUL    CAKE. 

6  eggs,  whites,  3  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

Flavor  with  rose  or  almond. 

BLACK   CAKE 1. 

13  eggs,  1  pound  citron, 

1  pound  sugar,  Yt.  nutmeg, 

1  pound  flour,  1  teaspoon  mace, 

1  pound  butter,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
3  pounds  raisins,  2  tablespoons  coffee, 

3  pounds  currants,  3  tablespoons  rose-water, 

yi  pound  finely  chopped  fresh  figs. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  yolks  of  the  eggs,  part 
of  the  flour,  the  spice  and  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  ;  then 
add  remainder  of  the  flour,  the  coffee,  rose-water,  and  fruit,  ex- 
cepting citron ;  mix  thoroughly.  Line  sides  and  bottom  of  an  8 
quart  pan  with  buttered  paper,  putting  3  layers  of  paper  on  the  bot- 
tom ;  put  in  the  mixture  adding  the  sliced  citron  in  alternate  lay- 
ers.    Bake  4  or  5  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

BLACK  CAKE 2. 

6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  mace, 

3^  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  pounds  raisins, 

3  cups  flour,  browned,  3  pounds  currants, 
3  cups  sweet  milk,  Yt.  pound  citron, 

3  tablespoons  molasses,         1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon,        3  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  3  hours. 


CAKE;  65 

Caram.el, 

}4  pound  brown  sugar,  }i  cup  milk, 

}i  pound  chocolate,  scant,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

3  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Mix  thoroughly,  cook  till  thick,  adding  the  vanilla  after  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire,  spread  on  the  cake  and  set  in  the  oven  to  dry. 

CHOCOLATE    CAKE — 1. 

7  eggs,  yolks,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  butter,  4  cups  flour, 

3  cups  brown  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

9  tablespoons  Baker's  chocolate. 

This  may  be  baked  as  a  layer  cake,  making  a  white  cake  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  baking  in  layers,  and  putting  them  together 
with  frosting,  alternating  the  layers. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE 2. 

2  cups  sugar,  2)4  cups  flour, 

1  cup  butter,  5  eggs,  reserving  3  whites, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

This  makes  2  flat  cakes. 

Icing. 

3  eggs,  whites,  6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate, 
lyi  cups  powdered  sugar,     2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

MARBLE  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

White  part. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  large, 

}i  cup  milk,  4  eggs,  whites, 

%  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk  slowly,  the 
flour  sifted  thoroughly  with  the  baking  powder,  and  last  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Darh  part. 

%  cups  sugar,  1%  cups  flour, 

%.  cup  butter,  small,  4  eggs,  yolks, 

K  cup  milk,  lYz  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

7  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 

Put  in  pans  alternately  1  large  spoonful  of  the  white  and  daark. 


66  CAKE. 

RICE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  white  sugar,  5  eggs, 

1  cup  rice  flour.  Flavor  to  taste. 

Beat  all  together  20  minutes,  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

2  cups  butter,  4  cups  flour, 
1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs. 

PHIL  SHERIDAN  CAKE. 

16  eggs,  whites,  1  cup  butter, 

4  cups  powdered  sugar,  1}^  cups  sweet  milk, 

5  cups  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

3  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk ;  stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  the  flour, 
then  the  milk  and  soda  ;  stir  several  minutes,  and  add  the  cream 
of  tartar  and  flavoring.     This  makes  a  large  cake. 

SNOW  CAKE — 1. 

>4  cup  butter,  K  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  whites, 

1}4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

SNOW   CAKE 2. 

10  eggs,  whites,  1  cup  flour, 

1}4  cups  powdered  sugar,      1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
Flavor  to  taste. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  sift  the  sugar  lightly  over  them, 

and  stir  well,  add  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  sifted  together, 

and  flavor. 

SNOWBALL  CAKE. 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

%  cup  butter,  Flour, 

}4  cup  sweet  milk,  Flavor  with  lemon, 

3  eggs,  whites,  A  little  citron  sliced  very  thin. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk  gradually,   stirring 

well,  then  the  whites,  beaten  stiff ;  sift  the  baking  powder  into  1 

cup  of  flour  and  stir  in  slowly,  then  the  citron  and  flavoring,  and 

enough  more  flour  to  make  nearly  as  stiff  as  plain  cake.     Bak©  in 

lloaf. 


CAKE.  67 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

}i  cup  butter,  >^  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs,  whites, 

IX  cups  flour,  1  teaspoou  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  layers. 

Filling, 

zyi  cups  C  sugar,  %  cup  cream, 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

The  particular  part  is  in  making  and  applying  the  filling  or  cara^ 
mel.  Boil  all  together  in  a  clean  smooth  skillet,  stirring  only  a 
little  to  prevent  scorching.  To  ascertain  when  it  is  cooked  enough, 
let  a  drop  fall  into  a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  when  it  rubs  to  a  pasty 
condition  between  thumb  and  finger,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  to 
the  consistency  of  veiy  thick  molasses,  when  it  may  be  placed  be- 
tween the  layers  and  over  the  top  and  sides,  forming  a  most  deli- 
cious cake. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  OAKE. 

IK  cups  sugar,  23^  cups  flour, 

%  cxi'Q  butter,  3  eggs, 

K  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Caramel. 

1  pint  brown  sugar,  K  cake  chocolate, 

X  cup  milk  or  water,  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  20  minutes,  or  until  thick  enough,  and  spread  between  the 
cakes  while  warm.     For  the  frosting  of  top  of  cake  use: 

2  eggs,  whites,         1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

\%,  cups  sugar,       3  teaspoons  grated  chocolate,  heaping. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour, 

1  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  milk,  5  eggs. 

Resei-ve  3  of  the  whites  for  frosting.     Bake  in  3  layers  in  deep 
jelly  tins. 

Frosting. 

\%  cups  powdered  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla, 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,         3  eggs,  whites. 


68  FILLINGS   FOR   CAKE. 

FILLINQS    FOR    LAYER    CAKE. 

APPLE    JELLY. 

1  large  tart  apple,  1  egg, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 

Grate  the  apple  and  the  rind  of  the  lemon,  add  the  other  ingre< 
dients  and  boil  the  jelly  about  5  minutes. 

CINNAMON   JELLY. 

2  eggs,  yolks,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  level  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

COFFEE    FILLING. 

1  tablespoon  cream,  3  eggs, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch,  3^  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  strong  black  coffee. 

Add  the  cream  and  sugar  to  the  coffee,  and  heat ;  when  boiling 
hot  add  the  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  coffee,  and  let  boil 
3  minutes.  Then  pour  slowly  over  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  stir 
rapidly.  If  not  thick  enough  set  over  boiling  water  and  stir  till 
the  eggs  set  a  little,  but  not  long  enough  to  curdle.  Spread  be- 
tween the  layers  and  ice  with  Coffee  Icing.  Use  Mocha  and  Java 
coffee  mixed. 

ICE  CREAM  FILLING. 

1  pound  almonds,  Sugar  to  sweeten, 

1  pint  thickest  sweet  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Beat  the  cream  until  it  looks  like  ice  cream,  make  very  sweet, 
and  flavor ;  blanch  and  chop  the  almonds,  stir  into  the  cream,  and 
put  very  thick  between  each  layer. 

PEACH    FILLING. 

Cut  peaches  in  thin  slices,  prepare  cream  by  whipping,  sweet- 
ening and  adding  flavor  of  vanilla  if  desired,  put  layers  of  peaches 
between  the  sheets  of  cake,  pour  cream  over  each  layer  and  over 
the  top.     This  may  also  be  made  with  ripe  strawberries. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING. 

Use  any  recipe  for  nice  la3'^er  cake,  and  put  the  parts  together 
with  whipped  cream. 


ICING.  69 

ICING. 

Keep  the  eggs  in  a  very  cold  place.  Break  the  whites  on  to 
a  platter  or  large  shallow  dish.  Allow  one  small  cup  or  one- 
third  pound  of  powdered  sugar  to  the  white  of  an  egg.  Beat  the 
whites  thoroughly  before  adding,  gradually,  the  sugar.  The  length 
of  time  required  for  beating  depends  on  the  coldness  and  freshness 
of  the  eggs.  Some  experienced  cooks  advise  putting  the  sugar  di- 
rectly into  the  whites  and  beating  all  together.  It  is  claimed, 
icing  80  made  does  not  crumble  easily.  If  a  soft  icing  is  desired 
add  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar,  or  ten  teaspoons  of  spgar  and  one 
of  cornstarch  to  the  white  of  each  egg.  Cake  can  be  iced  while 
warm  ;  in  the  case  of  fruit  cake,  it  is  better  to  leave  it  until  with- 
in a  few  hours  before  wanted,  as  icing  will  turn  yellow  by  staniding. 
Allow  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  a  large  cake.  Remove  the  loose 
parades  from  the  cake  with  a  cloth,  and  dust  with  Sour.  Flavor 
tcing  Just  befbre  using ;  if  lemon  juice  is  preferred,  estra  sugar 
will  be  needed  for  the  additional  liquid.  To  color  icing,  use  either 
cochineal,  a  red  jelly  or  strawberrj'^  syrup  for  a  pink,  strong  coflfee 
for  amber,  and  the  strained  juice  of  an  orange,  in  which  has  been 
soaked  the  rind,  for  a  delicate  yellow.  There  are  fruit  syrups  and 
powders  which  give  almost  an}'^  color  desired.  Powdered  or  con- 
fectioner's sugar  should  always  be  used  except  for  boiled  icing ; 
for  that  the  granulated  is  better.  Remember  to  beat  the  eggs  en- 
tirely in  one  direction,  that  is,  from  left  to  right,  or  right  to  left ; 
do  not  change  the  order  while  beating.  It  is  as  important  here  as 
in  cake  making. 

Put  the  cake  on  a  smooth,  flat  surface,  where  it  can  be  undis- 
tm*bed,  with  a  layer  of  clean  white  paper  under  it.  Drop  a  large 
spoon  of  icing  on  the  center  of  the  cake,  and  spread  smoothly  with 
a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water  to  prevent  sticking.  Work  as  rapidly 
as  possible  to  do  it  well.  When  finished  set  the  cake  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  It  is  nice,  when  the  frosting  is  almost  cold,  to 
take  a  knife  and  mark  the  cake  in  slices.  Any  ornaments,  such  as 
gum  drops,  candies,  orange  flowers  or  ribbons  should  be  put  o& 
while  the  icing  is  moist  When  dry  ornament  with  piping,  which 
te  a  stiff  icing  squ^esed  through  a  pap^  funnel,  and  may  be  tinted 
with  colored  sugars. 


70  icrN». 

ALMOND  lOING. 

%  pint  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs,  whites, 
3^  pint  sweet  almonds,  1  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Blanch  the  almonds  by  putting  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping 
off  the  skins,  and  spreading  upon  a  dry  cloth  until  cold  ;  pound  a 
few  of  them  at  a  time  in  a  mortar  till  well  pulverized  ;  mix  cai-e- 
fully  tJie  whites  of  the  eggs  and  sugar,  add  almonds,  flavor,  and 
dry  in  a  cooi  oven  or  in  the  open  air  when  weather  is  pleasant. 

BOILED    ICING. 

3  eggs,  whites,  4  tablespoons  hot  water, 

1  large  cup  sugar. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  briskly  for  5  minntes,  or  until  it 
threads  when  dropped  from  the  end  of  the  spoon.  Then,  with  left 
hand,  pour  the  boiling  syrup  upon  the  beaten  whites  in  a  small 
stream,  while  beating  hard  with  right  hand.  This  is  an  excellent 
frosting.  If  preferred,  add  one-half  pound  sweet  almonds  blanched 
and  pounded  to  a  paste,  or  1  cup  of  hickory  nut  meats,  chopped 
fine,  and  it  will  be  perfectly  delicious.  This  amount  will  froat  the 
top  of  two  large  cakes. 

BOILED  ICING  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  whites,  %  pint  boiling  water, 

4  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  clear  as  syrup  and  pour  over  the 

whites  beaten  stiff  ;  stir  until  it  is  a  stiff  cream  ;  add  cream  tartar 

and  vanilla.     This  is  nice  for  filling. 

BOILED  ICING  V7ITH0UT  EGGS. 

}4  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  all  10  minutes,  or  till  a  little  thick,  and  spread  on  cake. 

BOILED  ICING  WITH  BAISINS. 

1  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  water, 

%  cup  raisins,  stoned,  and  chopped  fine,       1  egg,  white. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  it  will  thread  from  the  spoon  ;  pour 
on  to  the  beaten  egg,  and  work  with  an  egg  beater  till  thick 
enough  to  spread  on  the  cake.  Take  out  enough  for  the  top  layer, 
and  with  the  rest  mix  the  raisins  ;  spread  between  the  layers. 


ICING.  71 

ICING — 3. 

1  lemon,  juice,  1  pound  powdered  sugar, 
4  eggs,  whites,                            1  teaspoon  cornstarch, 

1  teaspoon  sifted  white  gum  arabic. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  the  powdered  sugar,  then  the  corn- 
starch, gum  arabic,  and  lemon  juice ;  beat  all  well  together  and 
spread  on  cake. 

LEMON   ICING. 

To  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  strained,  add  sugar  till  it  is  thick 
enough  to  spread  well.  Put  on  cake  and  dry  in  a  cool  place  for  1 
or  2  hours ;  another  layer  can  be  added  if  desired. 

SIMPLE    ICING. 

Measure  out  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar ;  add  5  tablespoons  of 
water ;  stir  the  water  and  sugar  together  till  the  sugar  dissolves, 
but  do  not  stir  afterward.  Let  boil  till  it  ropes — that  is,  till  a 
little  taken  up  with  a  teaspoon  forms  a  continuous  string,  instead 
of  falling  in  drops  like  a  thin  liquid.  Have  the  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  thoroughly.  Let  one  pour  the  thick  s^Tup  into  the  white 
of  the  egg  while  another  beats  it.  Beat  for  2  or  3  minutes  till 
thick  and  creamy.  Pour  instantly  over  the  cake  to  be  iced,  as  it 
will  harden  in  a  few  moments  after  it  is  cold. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICING. 

3  cups  sugar,  K  pound  almonds,  chopped  fine, 

)4  cup  water,  %  small  cup  large  raisins, 

2  eggs,  whites,  A  little  citron  sliced  thin. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  till  the  syrup  is  waxy ;  pour  it  over  the 
beaten  whites,  and  beat  till  cool  j  then  add  almonds,  raisins  and 
citron,  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

WINDOM   ICING. 

yi  sheet  Russia  isinglass,         1  pound  pulverized  su^ar. 
}^  cup  boiling  water,  ^  cup  raisins. 

Bissolve  isinglass  in  water,  stir  in  sugar,  then  raisins,  seeded 

and  chopped.     Beat  weD. 

YELLOW  ICING. 

1  egg,  yolk*  9  heaping  teaspoons  powdered  sugwr. 

Vanilla  to  flavor. 

Use  the  same  day  as  made,  for  it  is  nice  only  wh^i  fresh. 


72  COOKIES. 

COOKIES    AND    JUMBLEB. 

In  mixing  cookies  avoid  using  mor«  flour  than  necessary  t©  roll 
out  the  dough,  as  it  makes  them  hard.  In  such  a  case  woik  in 
a  little  milk  or  melted  butter.  Flour  the  rolling  pin,  board  and  the 
cutter  to  prevent  sticking.  See  that  the  dough  is  rolled  out  evenly, 
in  order  that  the  cookies  may  bake  evenly.  Bo  not  crowd  them  in 
the  pan,  that  they  may  keep  their  shape.  Let  the  pan  be  of  sheet 
iron,  or  use  a  piece  of  sheet  iron  the  size  of  the  oven.  Turn-  it 
when  the  cookies  are  half  baked.  The  oven  should  be  hot.  They 
should  bake  in  10  minutes  unless  rolled  very  thick;  jumbles  re- 
quire about  15  minutes. 

A  nice  "  finishing  touch"  can  be  given  by  sprinkling  them  with 
granulated  sugar  and  rolling  over  lightly  with  the  rolling  pin,  then 
cutting  out  and  pressing  a  whole  raisin  in  the  center  of  each  ;  or 
when  done  a  very  light  brown,  brush  them  over  while  still  hot 
with  thick  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  sprinkle  with  currants  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  a  moment. 

Graham  cookies  can  be  made  by  using  the  most  valuable  recipe, 
substituting  graham  flour  where  white  flour  is  called  for,  and 
making  them  a  little  less  stitf  than  usual.  Use  flour  when  rolling 
them  out. 

Ada's  sugar  cakes. 

3  cups  sugar,  3  eggs, 

2  cups  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

Flour  sufficient  to  roll. 

COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter,  K  teaspoon  soda, 

2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  water  or  sweet  milk,        Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Just  enough  flour  to  roll. 

CHEAP  COOKIES. 

1  cop  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

}4  cup  milk,  K  teaspoon  soda, 

1  egg.  Flavor, 

Flour  to  roll. 

If  desired  1  tablespoon  of  ginger  or  cinnamon  can  be  added  to 

this  recipe. 


COOKIBS. 


73 


O&ISP  CMX>EIES. 


1  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar, 

3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda. 


S  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
Flour  to  roll. 


Spread  a  little  sweet  milk  over  each  cookey,  sprinkle  with  sogsu* 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CRISP   COOKIES  WITHOUT  SODA. 

1  pound  flour,  5  eggs, 

1  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  butter. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks,  well-beateii 
whites,  flour,  and  flavoring.      Roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  butter. 


EGOLESS    COOKIES. 


X  teaspoon  soda. 

Flavor, 

Flour  to  roll. 


FRUIT    COOKIES 1. 


1}4  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 
1  cup  currants, 
1  cup  raisins,  chopped, 
X  nutmeg,  grated, 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  soda. 
Flour  to  roll  thin. 


FRUIT    COOKIE  S- 


2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  sour  cream, 
%  cup  butter, 
}4  cup  raisins, 
}4  cup  currants, 
}4  cup  citron. 


2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  allspice, 

Flour  to  mould  firm. 


Seed  and  chop  the  raisins,  chop  the  citron  fine ;  roll  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  and  watch  carefully  while  baking  or  they  will  burn. 

PREMIUM    GRAHAM    COOKIES. 

3  cups  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  butter,  or  lard,      Graham  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
EoU  thin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


74  ©INQER  BREAD. 

ALUM  GINGER  BREAD 

IH  pounds  butter.  Water  to  dissolve  alum, 

^  pound  soda,  Flour  to  make  stiff, 

3^  cap  sweet  milk,  3  tablespoons  ffinger,  if  desired, 

1  teaspoon  alum,  (  1  egg, 

1  gallon  molasses  or  strained  <  An  equal  qvantlty  of  srvroet 


honey,  ( cream. 

DissQlvG  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  the  alum  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover  it,  use  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out*,  put 
the  molafises  in  a  votj  large  dish,  add  the  soda  and  butter  melted, 
then  all  the  other  ingredients ;  mix  in  the  evening  and  set  in  a 
warm  placje  to  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  knead  it  a  long 
time  like  bread,  roll  into  squares  one-half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake 
in  bread  pans  in  an  oven  heated  about  right  for  bread  To  make 
it  glossy,  rub  over  the  top  just  before  putting  it  into  the  oven  the 
well-beaten  egg  and  sweet  cream,  stirring  cream  and  egg  well  to- 
gether. This  ginger  bread  will  keep  an  unlimited  time.  The 
recipe  is  complete  without  ginger,  but  it  may  be  used.  Over  50 
years  old,  and  formerly  used  for  general  muster  days. 

EXCELLENT    GINGER  BREAD 1. 

1  cup  sugar,  5)4  cups  flour, 

1  cup  butter,  6  eggs, 

1  cup  buttermilk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

2  cups  molasses.  Ginger  and  cinnamon  to  tasta. 

BXOELLENT    GINGER  BREAD 2. 

2  Qggs,  }4  teaspoon  gingea*, 

}^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamoa, 

5^  6up  N.  O.  molasses,  %  teaspoon  soda, 

%  Qnp  cream,  Hot  water  to  dissolve  soda, 

}i  ©up  sour  milk.  Flour. 

Stir  together  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  yolks,  add  the  molasses, 
cream  and  sour  milk,  and  mix  thoroughly ;  add  ginger,  cinnamon, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  plain  cake ;  then  stir  in  thor- 
oughly the  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
This  is  more  difficult  to  make  successfully  than  plain  cake.  If  it 
is  too  thin,  it  is  liable  to  fall ;  and  if  too  stiff  it  is  not  so  good. 
Bake  in  2  deep  tins,  and  serve  while  warm. 


GINGER   SNAPS. 
GINGER  DROPS. 

K  cup  sugar,  2  eggg, 

K  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  cup  mol&ssea,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2H  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cloves. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  boiling  water,  add  the  egga,  well 
beaten,  just  before  baking.  Baked  in  gem  pans,  or  as  common 
ginger  bread,  and  eaten  warm  with  a  sauce,  they  make  a  nice 
dessert. 

GINGER  SNAPS 1. 

8  ounces  butter,  2  teaspoons  ginger, 

4  ounces  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

6  ounces  preserved  orange  peel,         1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  pint  molasses,  2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

1  pound  and  6  ounces  flour. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water,  soften  the  butter  and  mix  it  with 
the  sugar  and  molasses,  add  the  spices,  orange  peel  and  soda,  beat 
well  and  stir  in  the  flour ;  flour  the  board  and  roll  the  paste  as 
thin  as  possible,  cut  in  circles  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven. 
This  quantity  makes  one  hundred  and  twenty-nine  snaps,  about 
three  inches  across. 

GINGER    SNAPS 2. 

1  egg,  X  cup  boiling  water, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon  soda,  level, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  Flour  to  mould  out  rather  soft 
Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

GINGER    SNAPS 3. 

6  pounds  flour,  1  quart  molasses, 

13^  pounds  butter,  4  ounces  ginger, 

1%  pounds  sugar,  1  nutmeg,  grated. 

Cinnamon  to  taste. 

GINGER  SNAPS 4. 

2  cups  N.  O.  molasses,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

1  cup  butter  and  lard,  2  teaspoons  soda, 

1  cup  white  sugar,  3  tablespoons  water, 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  2  tablespoons  vinegar, 

1  teaspoon  allspice,  Flour. 

Mix  all  together  except  flour  and  sugar ;  add  flour  to  make  stiff, 
then  the  sugar,  make  in  a  roll,  cut  off  small  pieces,  flatten  them 


76 


NUT  WAFERS. 


slightly,  place  in  tins  1  inch  apart  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  cold,  put  in  a  covered  jar,  let  stand  a  few  days  and  they  are 
ready  for  use. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

2  cups  N.  O.  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ginger, 

X  cup  butter,  3  eggs, 

X  cup  cold  water,  Flour  to  roll  out. 

Do  not  roll  too  thin,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PEPPER  NUTS. 

1  cup  citron,  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  soda, 

1  teaspoon  ground  pepper.  Hot  water  to  dissolve  soda, 

4  eggs,  Flour  to  mould  into  small  balls. 

NUT    WAFERS. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  X  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  nut  meats,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

3  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  the  sugar,  salt,  flour  and  nut 
meats.      If  not  stiff  enough  to  drop  in  a  firm  mass,  add  more  flour, 
and  drop  in  small  quantities  on  well-buttered  paper.      Bake  about 
5  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 


Confectionery 


THE  '< sweet  tooth"  of  the  world  has  not  only  created  a  d». 
mand  for  candies,  but  requires  them  to  be  made  from  pure 
materials,  and  according  to  scientific  methods.  The  secret  of  suc- 
cessful candy-making  lies  in  understanding  the  action  of  heat 
upon  sugar,  and  the  effect  of  certain  things  on  boiled  sugar.  A 
sugar  boiler's  thermometer  is  desirable  in  home  work,  if  candy  is 
to  be  frequently  made  and  in  a  considerable  quantity.  The  exact 
degrees  of  heat  for  producing  certain  results  can  then  be  easily  as- 
certained. In  order  to  help  all  who  wish  to  make  candy,  the  5 
degrees  Fahrenheit  used  by  confectioners  will  be  given,  and  as  far 
as  possible,  the  directions  for  testing  without  a  thermometer. 

1st.     The  Smooth  :  215  to  220  degrees  F. 

2iid.    The  Thread :  230  tc  235  degrees  F. 

3rd.    The  Feather ;  240  to  245  degrees  F. 

4th.     The  Ball :  250  to  255  degrees  F. 

5th.  The  Crack  i  310  to  315  degrees  F. 
The  Smooth  degree  indicates  a  thick  syrup ;  dip  the  stem  of  a 
clay  pipe  into  the  syrup,  and  if  it  feels  oily  to  the  touch  the  degree 
is  reached,  and  may  be  used  for  crystallizing  purposes.  The 
Thread  is  known  when  the  syrup,  taken  from  the  pipe  by  the 
thumb  and  finger,  parts  quickly  and  hangs  in  small  threads.  The 
Feather  is  indicated  by  the  greater  tenacity  of  the  thread,  so  that 
it  can  be  drawn  out  in  long,  fine  hairs,  without  breaking.  Cream 
for  chocolate  candies  and  fruits  is  taken  from  sugar  at  this  degree. 
The  Ball  degree  is  reached  when  on  drawing  the  pipe  through  the 
sugar  and  dipping  it  into  cold  water,  the  sugar  dropping  from  it 
can  be  worked  like  putty.  This  is  used  in  makmg  cocoanut  can- 
dies, icing,  and  almost  any  variety  of  grained  candies.  The  Crack 
must  be  tested  in  like  manner;  the  sugar  must  leave  the  pipe 
clean,  and  when  dipped  in  water,  and  bitten,  must  break  oflP 
sharply  without  sticking  to  the  teeth.      The  soft  and  hard  Crack 

77 


78  CONFECTIONERY. 

are  its  fii'st  and  last  degrees.  Beyond  this  point  the  sugar  turns 
yellow  and  rapidly  crystallizes,  and  when  tested  in  water  shows 
softer,  and  more  brittle.  If  allowed  to  boil  to  320  deg.  F.  it 
reaches  a  point  called  Caramel,  and  must  not  be  allowed  to  remain 
longer  on  the  fire.  Caramel  is  used  for  coloring  candies,  and  mak- 
iug  brown  sauces  and  gravies.  Sugar  boiled  to  the  Crack  is  used 
for  making  drops,  rocks,  toflSes,  and  all  clear  candies.  Sugar 
boiled  beyond  250  degrees  will  grain  in  a  hard  lump.  Cream  of 
tartar  prevents  this  by  cutting  the  grain.  Its  action  makes  the 
sugar  easily  worked  while  warm,  and  transparent  when  cold.  One 
quarter  ounce  or  two  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar  is  sufficient  to 
use  with  eight  pounds  of  sugar.  Let  the  fire  be  firm  and  steady, 
before  putting  on  the  sugar  to  boil,  so  as  not  to  need  additional 
fuel ;  the  quicker  the  boiling  is  through,  the  better  is  the  color  and 
durability  of  the  sugar.  If  it  should  catch  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  lift  it  off,  and  shake  a  few  ashes  over  the  fire.  Dark  sugars 
require  longer  boiling  and  are  very  liable  to  burn.  Let  the  heat 
be  applied  only  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  otherwise  particles  may 
be  burned  on  the  sides  and  spoil  the  whole  material.  In  making 
caramels,  the  hotter  the  fire,  the  lighter  the  color ;  and  the  smaller 
the  quantity,  the  finer  the  flavor.  For  a  small  quantity  use  a  small 
pan  in  cooking,  as  there  is  less  danger  of  burning ;  it  must  be 
large  enough  to  allow  for  the  expansion  of  boiling  without  the  con- 
tents running  over  the  sides.  Caramels  are  a  delicate  confection, 
and  require  careful  attention.  Fruit  candies  are  much  finer  when 
made  from  pure  fruit  juices  aud  not  from  extracts.  All  color  and 
flavoring,  except  chocolate  and  nuts,  is  put  in  after  the  boil  is  re- 
moved from  the  fire.  In  pouring  candy  on  to  the  slab  or  platters, 
never  scrape  the  pan  or  allow  any  of  the  scrapings  to  fall  into  the 
material.  Avoid  stimng  or  disturbing  sjTup  that  is  intended  for 
clear  candies.  Grease  plates  or  slab  with  perfectly  fresh,  sweet 
butter  or  the  finest  olive  oil.  For  boiling  sugar  use  a  granite 
saucepan  or  one  made  of  bright  copper.  For  stirring,  a  wooden 
spatula  is  preferable  to  a  silver  spoon.  Have  a  large  hook  placed 
firmly  in  the  wall  in  a  convenient  place  for  pulling  candy;  also 
keep  waxed  paper  in  which  to  wrap  caramels  or  other  candies. 
Two  confectioners'  pouring  plates,  or  a  marble  slab,  will  be  a  great 


CONFECTIONERY,  79 

convenience,  and  improve  the  nicety  of  the  candy.  A  pair  of 
sharp  scissors  will  be  very  helpful.  The  first  step  in  the  manufac- 
ture of  all  boiled  candies  is  the  same,  and  consists  of  cooking  the 
sugar  to  such  a  consistency  as  will  enable  it  to  be  easily  handled, 
and  used  in  any  form  desired.  Unless  otherwise  indicated,  granu- 
lated sugar  is  intended  to  be  used  in  the  accompanying  recipes. 
The  following  is  a  good  foundation  recipe  for  all  boiled  candies, 
whether  cream  or  clear  : 

2  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  water, 

X  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar= 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  over  a  steady  fire,  and 
stir  till  well  dissolved.  If  any  impurities  rise  after  passing 
thi'ough  the  first  boil,  skim  at  once,  as  great  cleanliness  is  neces- 
sary to  nice  candy.  Stir  no  more.  Boiling  a  few  minutes  reduces 
the  mixture  to  a  perfect  solution,  which  is  called  simple  syrup  and 
can  be  used  for  crystallizing  fruits.  To  make  rock  candy,  boil  the 
syrup  until  it  hangs  in  soft  threads  ;  if  allowed  to  cool  then,  crys- 
tallization will  take  place  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  If,  instead,  the 
boiling  is  continued  until  the  syrup  on  being  tested  in  cold  water, 
stretches  out  in  a  long  fine  thread,  or  can  be  worked  with  the  fin- 
gers, cream  candies  or  cream  can  be  made  ;  it  must  be  quickly  re- 
moved from  the  fire  and  either  poured  on  a  slab  or  set  away  in  the 
saucepan  to  cool  rapidly.  When  cool  enough  to  bear  the  heat 
with  the  hand,  work  it  with  the  spatula  as  fast  as  possible,  until  it 
becomes  white,  stiff,  smooth,  and  shining.  If  taffy  or  clear  candy 
is  desired,  add  cream  of  tartar  at  the  Feather  point  and  continue 
boiling  to  the  Crack  degree.  The  greatest  skill  is  required  to 
bring  the  sugar  to  this  point  without  allowing  it  to  reach  the  cara- 
mel state.  If  the  sugar,  on  testing  in  cold  water,  becomes  brittle 
and  snaps  when  bitten,  it  is  done ;  add  the  desired  flavor,  and  pour 
out  the  boil  on  a  well-oiled  pan  or  slab,  and  when  nearly  cold  mark 
in  three-quarter  inch  squares  with  a  knife,  or  a  regular  caramel 
cutter.  If  instead  of  a  clear,  a  white  candy  is  desired,  when  the 
mass  is  cooled  suflSciently  to  handle,  throw  it  over  the  hook,  pull 
out,  throw  over  again  and  again,  taking  a  fresh  hold  each  time  and 
letting  the  sugar  slide  into  the  bulk  eac/j  time  a  fresh  hold  is 
taken-     The  sugar  should  be  white  and  pcrous  when  done,  and  of 


go  CONFECTIONERY. 

a  satiny  appearance.  The  fine  color  and  nice  appearance  depend 
upon  tlie  rapidity  of  the  operation.  If  the  sugar  sticks,  dust  the 
palms  of  the  hands  with  a  little  flour.  "Practice  makes  perfect" 
in  this  art.  If  the  mass  becomes  cool  and  stiff,  hold  it  near  the 
fire  until  softened  sufficiently  to  continue  working.  The  bulk  of 
candy  is  increased  by  working,  though  it  weighs  no  more  than  the 
clear  varieties. 

For  clear  stick  candy,  pour  the  mass,  after  coloring  and  flavoring, 
into  square  tins  to  a  sufficient  depth  for  the  thickness  of  the  stick. 
When  cool  enough  to  retain  its  shape,  cut  with  a  spatula,  or  a 
chopping  knife,  marking  as  desired.  When  cold  a  light  stroke 
will  separate  it  at  the  lines.  For  round  sticks,  roll  the  mass  into 
a  cylindrical  form,  draw  down,  pull  out,  and  cut  off  at  the  desired 
length. 

To  make  drops,  give  the  mass  an  oval  shape,  draw  out,  and  cut 
off  with  a  quick  blow  by  a  sharp  knife,  as  fast  as  possible ;  or 
pour  the  candy  while  warm,  drop  by  drop,  on  greased  tins.  For 
white  sticks,  or  drops,  color  the  mass  before  cooking,  but  work  the 
flavor  into  it  when  pulling,  as  it  must  go  through  that  process  be- 
fore cutting  into  the  desired  shapes.  All  pulled  or  worked  can- 
dies are  flavored  during  that  operation.  Butter  is  used  in  making 
ice-cream,  milk  or  cream  in  caramels,  and  brown  sugar  in  many 
nut  candies.  If  confectioners'  sugar  is  called  for,  buj^  the  best, 
for  though  mixed  with  a  little  starch,  because  of  its  adhesive  qual- 
ity, it  is  not  harmful,  but  the  inferior  grades  are  badly  adulterated. 
Gum  arable  is  used  in  making  marshmallow  and  other  varieties  of 
paste,  also  in  gum  drops. 

To  candy  nuts :  first  prepare  and  warm  them,  that  they  may  be 
ready  for  the  boiling  sugar.  Boil  cream  of  tartar  in  the  sugar, 
and  take  off  a  little  under  the  Crack  ;  drop  in  the  nuts,  a  few  at  a 
time,  take  out  and  lay  on  a  cold  plate  till  set.  It  is  necessary  to 
work  rapidly.  If  a  darker  shade  is  desired,  let  the  sugar  pass  the 
crack  and  begin  to  turn  yellow.  Work  must  be  very  rapid  after 
this  point. 

To  candy  fruits  :  take  sugar  prepared  as  for  nuts,  and  use 
oranges,  grapes,  cherries,  or  any  fruit  from  which  the  juice  does 
not  run  too  freely.     Great  care  must  be  used  in  preparing  them. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


81 


and  discard  any  fruit  aavina:  the  least  break.  Peel  and  quarter 
oranges,  and  let  dry  a  few  hours,  so  as  to  take  out  the  seeds  with- 
out starting  the  juice.  Dip  into  the  candy,  and  lay  on  an  oiled 
plate.  Break  grapes  into  bunches  of  two  or  three,  dip,  and  when 
well  coated  with  the  sugar,  hang  on  a  line,  or  treat  as  oranges. 
Cherries  are  prepared  in  a  similar  manner  to  grapes. 

Though  the  preference  is  given  to  the  boiled  sugar  for  creams  be- 
cause of  its  finer  quality  and  durability,  full  directions  will  be 
found  for  the  uncooked  creams.  Many  prefer  this  method  as  it  is 
more  rapid  and  easier  than  the  boiling  process.  The  basis  of  all 
uncooked  candies  is  a  cream  made  of  confectioners'  sugar.  To  the 
whites  of  two  or  more  eggs,  add  exactly  an  equal  quantity  of 
water,  and  stir  in  slowly  enough  sugar  to  make  a  firm,  soft  paste, 
easily  moulded  by  the  fingers.  Flavor  to  taste,  mould  into  balls, 
lozenges,  squares,  or  any  forms  wished,  and  la}''  upon  waxed  paper 
to  dry.  Part  of  the  cream  can  be  put  aside  for  use  with  figs, 
dates,  or  nuts ;  another  part  can  be  flavored  with  fruit  juices ; 
some  can  be  used  with  jellies,  and  melted  chocolate  will  make  the 
balls  into  nice  chocolate  creams.  These  are  but  few  of  the  uses 
to  which  it  can  be  put,  and  an  ingenious  worker  can  manufacture 
all  the  varieties  desired.  Flavoring  extracts  must  be  used  in  very 
small  quantities.  Cocoanut,  if  from  the  nut,  should  be  prepared 
the  day  before  using.  Small  quantities  are  more  easily  handled, 
and  a  second  or  third  cream  can  be  quickly  made. 

COLORINa. 

For  candies  and  other  articles  of  food  only  harmless  vegetable 
colors  should  be  used.  These  can  be  obtained  in  paste  form  from 
many  bakers  and  confectioners. 

CARAMEL. 

Put  four  ounces  of  sugar  into  an  old  iron  or  tin  pan,  which 
must  be  perfectly  clean.  Have  the  fire  of  good  heat  and  stir  the 
sugar  with  a  smooth  stick  until  it  changes  from  a  light  to  a  very 
dark  brown,  and  boils  up  vigorously.  Draw  to  one  side  of  the 
stove,  stirring  constantly  lest  it  boil  over.  Add  little  by  little  1 
cup  of  hot  water,  boil  slowly  4  minutes  and  strain.  This  will  be  a 
syrup  and  if  diluted  should  give  a  clear  brown  color.     When  cold, 


82  CONFECTIONERY. 

bottle  for  use.     It  will  keep  any  length  of  time.     Used  to  color 
candies,  broths,  sauces,  etc. 

GREEN. 

Spinach  green  is  perfectly  harmless.  Take  a  few  leaves,  wash 
thoroughly,  drain  off  the  water,  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  add  a  little 
salt  to  a  cup  of  the  juice ;  put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  stir 
till  it  curdles.  Drain  on  a  hair  sieve.  Press  what  remains  on  the 
sieve  through  it  and  mix  with  half  the  quantity  of  powdered  sugar. 
Put  away  in  a  cold  place. 

RED. 
20  grains  cochineal,  15  grains  cream  of  tartar, 

20  grains  alum,  1  gill  soft  water. 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  boil  in  an  earthen  dish  slowly  30  min- 
utes.    Strain  through  muslin,  or  filter,  and  cork  tightly. 

YELLOW. 

Put  a  little  saffron  into  an  earthen  dish  with  a  little  boiling 
water ;  let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  several  hours  ;  when 
ready,  strain,  add  sugar  to  make  a  syrup,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

Cream  color  is  obtained  by  using  a  ver}"  slight  quantity  of  saf- 
fron. Brown  sugars  give  a  yellowish  tint  to  candies  in  which  they 
are  used. 

Fruit  juices  make  a  nice  coloring  for  icings  and  confectionery. 

TO  CLARIFY   SYRUP. 

Put  the  white  of  an  egg  into  any  muddy  liquid  or  syrup,  and  on 
boiling,  the  impurities  either  rise  to  the  surface  or  sink  to  the  botr 
tom. 

RECIPES  FOR  CONFECTIONERY. 

BURNT  ALMONDS. 

2}4  pounds  sugar,  1%  pounds  almonds, 

1  pint  water. 
Remove  the  shells  but  not  the  skins  from  the  almonds  and  warm 
slightly  before  using.  Boil  the  sugar  to  the  ball  degree,  and  stir 
in  the  almonds  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Stir  so  as  to  keep  the  al- 
monds from  sticking  and  detach  the  sugar  fi'om  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  pan.  Coat  thoroughly  with  sugar,  turning  them  over 
and  over.  When  a  crackling  sound  is  heard,  remove  the  pan  from 
^b"^.  fire,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  appears  like  coarse  sand.      Turn  out 


CONFECTIONERY.  33 

the  contents  of  the  pan  on  a  wire  sieve,  and  cover  with  paper  for 
5  minutes.  Then  pick  out  the  almonds,  and  return  the  sugar  to 
the  saucepan  with  only  sufficient  water  to  dissolve  it.  Repeat  the 
first  process  and  give  almonds  a  second  coating,  being  careful  to 
keep  them  separated.  If  this  should  be  repeated  3  or  4  times 
the  almonds  will  have  a  thicker  coating.  In  order  to  make  them 
crinkly,  boil  2^  pounds  of  sugar  to  the  crack ;  put  the  almonds 
into  a  pan  and  pour  over  them  this  syrup  in  two  coats,  stirring 
each  time.     Burnt  almonds  are  often  colored  red. 

CREAM   ALMONDS. 

Roast  almonds  till  the  meat  is  brown ;  take  cream  made  as  for 
chocolate  creams ;  roll  out  in  a  sheet  and  cut  into  pieces  1  inch 
square  by  one-fourth  inch  thick  ;  wrap  the  almond  smoothly  in  this 
cream.  Put  in  a  warm  place  to  harden,  and  finish  by  crystallizing 
in  syi'up,  or,  wliile  moist  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

GRILLED   ALMONDS. 

1  cup  blanched  almonds,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  water. 

Dry  the  almonds  thoroughly.      Cook  the  sugar  and  water  till  it 

flies  in  long  threads  from  the  spoon  ;  throw  in  the  almonds,  cook 

them  in  the  syrup,  stirring  occasionally.      As  soon  as  they  begin 

to  turn  a  pale  yellow  brown  take  immediately  from  the  fire,  or  they 

will  lose  their  flavor ;  stir  until  the  syrup  has  turned  to  sugar,  and 

crystallizes  around  the  nuts.     This  is  a  very  nice  French  recipe. 

SALTED    ALMONDS. 

1  cup  blanched  almonds,  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt, 

1  teaspoon  sweet  butter  or  oil. 

Dry  the  almonds  thoroughly,  put  them  in  a  bowl,  and  stir  in  the 
butter,  melted,  coating  each  one;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  salt, 
lay  on  a  tin  plate,  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Shake  and 
turn  the  pan  occasionally.  Take  out  when  golden  brown,  pick 
out  the  almonds  and  throw  away  the4oose  salt.  Almonds  pre- 
pared this  way  are  delicious. 

POP-CORN  BALLS. 

Boil  N.  0.  molasses,  any  quantity  desired,  to  the  soft  ball; 
have  ready  freshly  parched  corn  and  put  the  perfect  kernels  into  a 
larse  tin  pan  ;  pour  over  a  little  of  the  boiled  molasses.      Mix  thor- 


84  CONFECTIONERY. 

oughly  mth  forks  or  spoons,  adding  more  candy  as  it  is  needed. 
The  balls  can  be  made  of  equal  size  by  filling  tightly  a  pint  meas- 
ure; then  empty  and  squeeze  the  corn  into  a  firm  ball  with  the 
hands.     Set  aside  to  harden  when  finished. 

CREAM  BONBONS. 

i  pound  sugar,  1  cup  water, 

Flavoring. 
Boil  without  stirring,  after  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  to  a  point  be- 
tween the  feather  and  the  soft  ball.  Remove  from  the  fire,  let 
cool  slightly,  add  flavoring,  and  rub  to  a  cream  against  the  sides 
of  the  pan  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Roll  small  pieces  of  this  cream 
into  round  or  oval  balls,  and  drop  into  powdered  sugar  before  set- 
ting away  to  harden. 

CANDY  OF   ANY  FLAVOR. 
3K  pounds  refined  sugar,  IK  pints  water, 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Mix  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to  hold  the  candy  when  expanded 
by  the  heat ;  boil  over  a  brisk  fire,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
burn.  The  heat  should  be  applied  at  bottom  and  not  at  the  sides. 
After  boiling  15  minutes,  remove  a  small  portion  of  the  melted 
sugar  with  a  spoon,  and  cool  by  dropping  in  cold  water.  Take  a 
portion  between  thumb  and  finger,  and  if  it  forms  a  thread  as  it 
separates,  the  process  is  nearly  done,  and  great  care  must  be  used 
to  control  the  heat  so  that  the  boiling  may  be  kept  up  without 
burning.  Test  frequently  by  dropping  a  bit  into  cold  water ;  if  it 
becomes  hard  and  brittle,  snapping  apart  when  bent,  it  is  done  and 
must  be  removed  at  once,  and  the  flavoring  stirred  in.  Then  pour 
into  shallow  earthen  dishes,  thoroughly  but  lightly  greased,  and 
cool  until  it  can  be  handled ;  pull,  roll  into  sticks  or  make  into  any 
desired  shape.  Or,  omit  the  cream  of  tartar,  and  when  the  sugar 
can  be  worked  like  putty  on  being  tried  in  the  water,  take  from  the 
fire,  cool  slightly,  flavor,  and  stir  to  a  soft  but  firm  white  cream. 
This  can  be  made  into  bonbons,  and  chocolate  or  fruit  creams. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM  CANDY. 

2X  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  water, 

X  pound  butter,  X  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 

X  pound  chocolate. 
Boil  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter  10  minutes;  add  but- 


CONFECTIONERY.  85 

ter ;  the  mass  will  begin  to  froth  and  will  occupy  double  the  pre- 
vious space  ;  boil  to  a  soft  crack,  and  pour  on  a  well-greased  plate 
or  slab ;  knead  into  it  the  powdered  chocolate.  When  cool 
enough  throw  over  the  hook  and  pull,  flavoring  with  vanilla  while 
working. 

EVERTON  ICE-CREAM  CANDY. 

1  lemon,  IK  pounds  sugar, 

2  ounces  butter,  1}4  teacups  water. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  lemon  into  a  cup ;  boil  the  sugar,  butter 
and  water  together  with  one-half  the  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  when 
done,  which  may  be  known  by  its  becoming  quite  crisp  when 
dropped  in  cold  water,  set  aside  till  the  boiling  has  ceased ;  stir  in 
the  juice  of  the  lemon ;  butter  a  dish  and  pour  on  about  1  inch 
thick.  When  cool,  take  out  peel  and  pull  till  white.  Draw  out  in 
sticks  and  check  every  4  inches  with  a  knife.  The  fire  must  be 
quick  and  the  candy  stirred  all  the  time. 

ICE-CREAM  CANDY. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

1  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Flavoring,                                 Butter,  size  of  a  nutmeg. 

This  must  not  be  stirred  while  cooking.     Boil  about  25  minutes 

or  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.     Work  as  soon  as 

possible  after  taking  from  the  fire.     Flavor  while  pulling. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY. 

2  ounces  dried  hoarhound,  3  pints  water. 
Granulated  sugar,                                          Lemon  juice. 

The  proper  method  is  first  to  make  a  decoction  of  the  hoar  hound. 

Boil  20  minutes,  then  strain  and  press  off  the  liquid  through  a 

hair  sieve.     To  each  pint  of  this  take  2  pounds  sugar ;  place  upon 

the  fire  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  when  it  boils  add  the 

juice  of  half  a  good-sized  lemon.      Boil  to  the  hard  crack,  being 

careful  to  keep  the  sides  of  the  pan  perfectly  free  from  the  minute 

crystals  deposited  there  by  the  steam  from  the  boiling  sugar ;  this 

can    easily   be  done  by  washing  them  occasionally  with   a   wet 

sponge  or  cloth.     As  the  sugar  comes  to  the  hard  crack,  pour  it 

upon  a  cold,  greased  marble  slab,  and  when  cool  enough  turn  in  the 

edges  and  cut  the  batch  into  suitable  bars  or  squares. 


A  TEACHER  in  a  well-known  cooking  school  gives  as  her 
opinion  that  ever}'  housekeeper  should  be  able  to  make  a 
ciitferent  dessert  for  each  dav  in  the  year.  "While  a  kuowledoe  of 
thi'ee  hundred  and  sixty-five  rccipes  for  making  desserts  may  not 
be  quite  as  import^mt  as  she  seems  to  think,  there  is  no  doubt  that 
the  majority  of  our  cooks  do  not  give  tliat  branch  of  their  work 
the  attention  it  deserves,  and  so  great  cai*e  has  been  taken  to  maka 
this  department  very  complete. 

CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

Ver}'  few  people  know  how  great  a  variety  of  desserts  maj 
h9  made  from  a  simple  combination  of  custard.  The  great  se. 
cret  in  a  baked,  boiled  or  steamed  cust:u"d  is  slow  cooking.  To 
/ittain  this  it  is  essential  that  the  custard  should  be  cooked  in  a 
ckish.  set  in  boiling  water,  which  completely  ob^iates  all  danger  of 
burning.  The  rule  for  custard  is  exceedingly  simple  imd  need  not 
be  varied  for  baked  or  boiled  custard. 

1  quart  fresh  milk,  6  tablespoons  sugar. 

Yolks  of  G  oggs,  1  saltspooii  salt, 

Flavoring. 

All  the  ingi-edients  must  be  of  the  best  and  fi'cshest  quality. 
The  whites  of  the  eggs  can  be  added  to  the  custai'd,  but  as  they 
do  not  enrich  it  and  are  of  no  especial  value  in  it,  it  is  more  eco- 
nomical to  use  them  as  a  meringue  or  in  white  or  delicate  cakes. 
The  process  of  making  a  custard  is  very  simple,  yet  it  is  com- 
mon to  see  this  dish  put  on  the  table  wheyed  or  spoiled,  because 
of  a  failure  to  attend  to  the  especial  minutiii^  in  making  it.  The 
milk  should  be  new  and  brought  to  the  boiling  point.  The  j'olks 
of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  with  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  the 
boiling  milk  poured  gi-adually  over  them  and  beaten  into  them, 
and  it  should  then  be  strained.     A  flavor  of  nutmeg  may  be  added, 

86 


DESSERTS.  87 

or  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  a  portion  of  vanilla  bean,  or  a  little  of  the 
chipped  yellow  outer  peel  of  a  lemon  may  be  boiled  with  the  milk. 
For  baking,  pour  the  custard  into  earthen  cups,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
wat(ir,  and  }>ake  in  a  mod(;rat(}Iy  hot  oven;  for  steaming,  cook  fif- 
teen minutes  over  boiling  water;  or  make  into  a  boiled  custard  by 
stirring  the  custard  in  a  double  boiler  till  it  thickens.  This  will  take 
five  or  six  minutes.  The  custard  should  be  continually  beaten  all 
the  time  that  it  is  cooking  and  until  it  has  cooled.  These  custards 
may  be  made  more  ornamental  by  adding  a  meringue  and  brown- 
ing it  lightly  in  the  oven  afterward.  This  is  no  addition,  except 
to  a  lemon  custard,  which  is  nice  served  with  a  meringue  flavored 
with  lemon  juice.  Almost  any  fruit  jelly  or  fine  marmalade,  or 
any  fresh  fruit,  is  nice  served  with  custard. 

The  number  of  delicious  desserts  that  may  be  made  with  a 
foundation  of  cream  is  almost  innumerable.  There  is  something 
jrarticularly  nice  in  whipped  cream  served  with  any  kind  of  sweet 
fruit.  Preserves  of  all  kinds  are  excellent  with  whipped  cream, 
yet  it  is  comparatively  rare  to  see  them  served  in  this  way.  Char- 
lotte Russe  becomes  the  simplest  of  deserts  when  once  the  art  of 
beating  cream  is  acquired.  This  can  be  done  with  an  ordinary 
egg  whip,  or  a  Dover  egg-beater,  but  most  persons  can  succeed 
better  with  a  cream  chum,  which  should  be  a  cylinder  at  least  three 
and  one-half  inches  across,  and  about  ten  inches  long.  Cream  can 
be  rapidly  beaten  in  such  a  chum.  As  the  froth  rises  skim  off  on 
a  sieve,  and  place  over  a  pan  to  drip.  There  is  always  some  cream 
in  a  quart  that  will  not  froth,  and  this  will  drain  into  the  pan  and 
should  be  used  for  coffee  or  some  other  purpose.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary U)  beat  cream  to  a  froth  in  making  ice  cream,  or  in  making 
desserts  in  which  cream  is  used.  An  iced  or  cold  rice  pudding 
made  with  a  mixture  of  whipped  cream  and  boiled  rice  properly 
flavored  is  one  of  the  best  desserts  made. 

Creams  and  custards  should  always  be  beaten  in  stone  or 
earthen  ware  to  ensure  their  essential  lightness.  When  gelatine  is 
used  in  creams,  soak  it  for  an  hour  in  a  little  cold  water  or  milk, 
set  in  a  warm  place  ;  it  is  convenient  to  place  the  bowl  in  the  top 
of  the  boiling  teakettle,  and  when  dissolved,  pour  into  the  hot  cus- 
tard just  after  removing  from  the  stove. 


88 


DESSERTS. 


The  ''zest"  used  in  flavoring  is  the  name  given  to  sugar  satur- 
ated with  the  oil  of  lemon  or  orange  peel,  obtained  by  rubbing  the 
rind  with  lumps  of  sugar. 

ARROWROOT  BLANCMANGE. 

1  quart  milk,  2%  tablespoons  arrowroot, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  rose-water, 

Salt  to  taste. 
Dissolve  the  arrowroot  in  1  gill  of  milk,  and  heat  the  remainder ; 
when  it  boils  add  the  arrowroot,  stir  in  well  and  cook  a  few  mo- 
ments before  adding  the  sugar,  rose-water  and  salt.     Pour  into 
moulds  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANCMANGE. 

3  eggs,  5  tablespoons  grated  clioco.ate, 
%  cup  sugar,  1  quart  milk, 

%  ounce  gelatine,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  the  milk,  and  bring  the  remainder 
to  a  boil.  Beat  j^olks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughl}^  and  add 
first  the  gelatine,  then  the  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the 
boiling  milk  and  stir  all  together  rapidly.  Pour  the  hot  milk  over 
the  mixture,  beat  well  and  strain.  Cook  as  for  boiled  custard, 
stiiTing  constantly.  When  partly  cool,  add  vanilla  and  the  beaten 
whites.  Pour  into  wet  moulds  and  set  on  ice.  To  be  eaten  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream. 

CORNSTARCH  BLANCMANGE. 

1  quart  milk.  Salt  to  taste, 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch,  Cinnamon  to  taste, 
4  tablespoons  sugar.                             Jelly. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  sugar,  salt,  cinnamon,  and  the  corn- 
starch moistened  with  cold  milk;  boil  4  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Rinse  in  cold  water  as  many  cups  as  desired,  and  nearly 
fill  with  blancmange.  Let  them  stand  until  cold,  turn  upside 
down  on  saucers  or  little  pudding  dishes,  and  on  top  of  each  place 
one -half  teaspoon  of  bright  red  jell}',  pour  around  them  sweetened 
cream,  flavored  with  lemon  extract. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANCMANGE. 
3  quarts  milk.  Sugar, 

1  small  handful  Irish  moss.  Cream, 

Wash  the  moss,  soak  15  minutes  in  lukewarm  water,  shake  dry, 


DESSERTS.  89 

nad  put  into  a  custard  kettle  with  the  milk ;  stir  occasionally  and 
cook  slowly  till  it  will  jell  slightlj^  when  dropped  on  a  cold  plate. 
Strain  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  mould 
which  has  been  rinsed  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for 
several  hours.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream,  and  a  little  tart  jelly. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE — 1. 

X  box  gelatine,  3  eggs, 

^  pint  milk,  2  dozen  lady  fingers, 

3  pints  cream,  Lemon  or  vanilla  to  taste, 
^y4  pound  powdered  sugar,  Jelly  if  desired. 

Split  the  lady  fingers,  or  substitute  slices  of  sponge  cake,  and 

line  a  mould.     Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  milk.     Whip  the  cream 

to  a  froth,  and  set  on  ice ;  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  with  the 

sugar  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites ;  strain  the  gelatine  upon 

these,  stirring  quickl}'' ;  add  the  cream,  flavor  and  fill  the  mould. 

Let  stand  upon  ice  2  hours  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.     The 

bottom  of  the  mould  may  be  lined  with  jelly. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 2. 

4  eggs,  whites,  lj4  cups  powdered  sugar, 

1  ounce  gelatine,  1  pint  thick  sweet  cream, 

2  gills  boiling  milk.  Rose-water  or  vanilla. 

Sponge  cake. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  milk,  beat  the  whites  stiff, 
whip  cream  to  a  froth  and  line  a  large  mould  with  thick  slices  of 
sponge  cake ;  mix  gelatine,  sugar,  cream  and  flavoring  together, 
add  lightly  the  frothed  whites,  pour  into  the  mould  and  set  away 
on  ice  till  required  for  use.  This  is  an  easy  and  excellent  mode  of 
making  this  most  delicate  dessert. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 3. 

X  pound  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs,  whites, 

1  pint  rich  cream,  X  teaspoon  almond. 

Sponge  cake,  or  lady  fingers. 

Sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream  before  whipping,  add  the  stiff 
whites  and  beat  all  thoroughly  together ;  pour  into  a  mould  lined 
with  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake,  or  lady  fingers,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  till  firm. 


90  DESSERTS. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

1  pound  cooking  apples,  1  ounce  gelatine, 

K  pound  sugar,  1  lemon, 

}4  pint  cream,  Little  boiling  water, 

Cochineal. 
Peel,  quarter  and  core  the  apples,  put  into  a  stewpan  with  sugar 
and  the  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon ;  set  on  the  stove  and  let  simmer 
gently.  When  the  apples  are  quite  soft,  pass  through  a  sieve  into 
a  bowl,  put  on  ice  till  cold.  Whisk  the  cream  to  a  firm  froth ;  add 
gelatine  melted  in  the  water,  and  the  apple  pulp.  If  desired,  color 
a  little  of  the  mixture  with  the  cochineal,  pour  it  in  a  mould  and 
set  on  ice.     When  firm,  add  the  white  portion.     Serve  when  cold. 

CHOCOLATE   BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

}4  box  gelatine,  l}i  cups  sugar, 

%  cup  cold  water,  1  pint  cream, 

^i  cup  boiling  water,  4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate, 

Vanilla. 
Whip  the  cream  to  a  froth  and  keep  cool ;  dissolve  the  chocolate 
in  a  little  boiling  water;  soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  1 
hour,  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar,  and  vanilla ;  set  on  the  stove 
to  thicken,  stir  in  the  chocolate,  remove  from  the  stove,  let  cool, 
and  beat  in  the  whipped  cream.     Pour  into  a  mould  to  stiffen, 

BOHEMIAN  CREAMS. 

1  quart  cream,  4  eggs,  yolks, 

1  ounce  gelatine,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  vanilla  bean,  or  extract  of  vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  water,  whip  one-half  the  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  boil  the  other  half  with  the  sugar  and  a  vanilla  bean,  or  va- 
nilla extract  may  be  added  after  it  is  removed  from  the  fire.  Add 
the  gelatine,  and  when  cooled  a  little  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  steadily  until  smooth,  when 
add  the  whipped  cream,  beating  lightly.  Mould  and  set  on  ice 
until  ready  to  serve. 

To  flavor  with  strawberries,  strain  2  pounds  berries  through  a 
colander,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  set  on  ice; 
when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth,  add  the  whipped  cream  as 
above,  and  mould. 

To  flavor  with  peach,  boil  18  choice  peaches,  sweeten  and  strain 


DESSERTS.  91 

through  a  colander,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  a  teacup  of  cream, 
and  set  on  ice ;  when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth,  add  the  whipped 
cream,  and  mould. 

To  flavor  with  pineapple,  grate  fine,  boil  with  half  a  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  strain  through  a  colander,  adding  the  dissolved 
gelatine,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it  thickens  stir  until  smooth ;  add 
the  whipped  cream,  and  mould.  Canned  pineapples  may  be  used 
instead  of  fresh.  In  all  these  never  add  whipped  cream  until  the 
mass  is  cool  and  begins  to  thicken. 

BUTTERCUP   CREAM. 

2  cups  cold  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  lemon, 

}i  cup  crystal  gelatine. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  milk ;  heat,  and  when  boiling  pour 

slowly  over  the  beaten  j^olks  and  sugar.     Beat  the  whites  stiff, 

flavor  and  whip  into  the  custard,  and  pour  into  a  mould.     Serve 

with  jelly. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

IX  cups  cream,  }4  cup  water, 

1  cup  strong,  hot  coffee,  3^  cup  sugar, 

%  ounce  gelatine. 

doak  the  gelatine  in  the  water  till  dissolved,  pour  it  into  the 

coffee,  add  the  sugar,  cool,  strain  and  stir  in  the  cream,  which  may 

be  whipped  or  plain.     Fill  the  moulds,  and  set  in  an  ice  box  or 

cold  place  over  night. 

HAMBURG  CREAM. 

1  cup  sugar,  8  eggs, 

2  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

Stir  together  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemons  and  sugar,  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  ;  put  all  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  stir  for  3  minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  serve,  when  cold,  in  custard- 
glasses. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

}i  box  gelatine,  8  eggs, 

\yi  cups  sugar,  2%  pints  milk 

Flavor  to  taste. 

Hoak  the  gelatine  one-half  hour  in  one-fourth  pint  cold  milk,  put 

the-  remainder  on  to  boil,  and  when  boiling  stir  in  yolks  of  the 


92  DESSERTS. 

eggs  well  beaten,  the  sugar  and  gelatine  ;  when  custard  begins  to 
thicken,  take  off  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish  in  which  the  whites 
have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  well  together  and  flavor  to 
taste ;  put  in  moulds,  and  allow  4  hours  to  cool.  This  cream  is 
much  more  easily  made  in  winter  than  in  summer. 

ORANGE   CREAM. 

]4  pint  cream,  1  lemon, 

3  tablespoons  sugar,  3  tablespoons  gelatine, 

3  oranges,  K  pint  water. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  lemon  and  oranges,  letting  the  rind 
of  1  orange  soak  in  the  juice  of  the  oranges  1  hour ;  boil  the  gela- 
tine in  water  and  cool ;  whip  the  cream  to  a  froth,  stir  all  together, 
pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 

RICE  CREAM. 

1  quart  sugar,  K  cup  raw  rice, 

2  quarts  whipped  cream,  Yz  box  gelatine, 

Yz  teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  the  rice  in  an  abundance  of  water;  when  it  has  boiled  10 
minutes  pour  off  the  water,  add  1  pint  of  milk,  put  it  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  with  a  little  of  the 
yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  to  give  flavor;  when  done,  remove  the 
lemon  peel,  add  the  gelatine,  which  should  have  soaked  1  hour  in 
half  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  add  also  the  sugar  and  salt.  Put  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water  and  salt,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  chilled. 
Then  beat  in  the  whipped  cream.  The  rice  must  be  added  lightly 
to  the  cream  so  as  not  to  break  down  the  froth.  Pour  into  little 
cups  or  one  large  mould  and  set  it  away  on  the  ice  until  it  has 
hardened.  It  should  be  firmer  than  jelly.  It  is  delicious  served 
with  strawberries  and  whipped  cream,  or  a  golden  orange  jelly  and 
whipped  cream.  This  is  an  especially  ornamental  dessert  served 
in  a  large  mould  on  a  low  glass  platter,  with  strawberries  or  jelly 
and  whipped  cream  wreathed  around  it,  or  if  preferred,  make  a 
sauce  with  a  cup  of  mashed  strawberries,  strained  into  a  quart  of 
whipped  cream  and  properly  sweetened.  Let  the  white  mould 
rise  from  the  center  of  this  sauce. 


DESSERTS.  93 

ROCK    CREAM» 

1  cup  rice,  Jelly, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  5  eggs,  whites, 

1  saltspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 

Milk,  1  tablespoon  rich  cream, 

Flavor  to  taste. 

Boil  the  rice  in  a  custard  kettle,  iu  sweet  milk,  until  soft,  add 
sugar  and  salt ;  pour  into  a  dish  and  place  on  it  lumps  of  jelly ; 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth, 
flavor,  adding  cream,  and  drop  the  mixture  on  the  rice. 

SPANISH   CREAM. 
1  quart  milk,  4  eggs, 

}i  box  gelatine,  1  cup  sugar. 

Vanilla  to  flavor. 
Soak  gelatine  in  the  milk  for  30  minutes,  heat,  beat  yolks  and 
sugar  together  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk,  stir  and  cook  until  it 
thickens ;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  whites  beaten  very  light, 
stirring  them  in  thoroughly,  flavor  and  put  in  a  mould  to  cool. 
Or,  a  meringue  may  be  made  of  the  beaten  whites,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  pour  over  cream  and  brown 
slightly  in  the  oven. 

VELVET  CREAM. 
yi  box  gelatine,  }^  cup  powdered  sugar, 

}4  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  cream, 

yi  cup  boiling  water.  Flavor  ^yith  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water,  stir  till 
clear,  and  let  cool.  Have  the  cream  very  cold,  add  sugar  and 
beat  to  a  stifle  froth ;  whip  it  into  the  gelatine,  flavor,  put  in  wet 
moulds  and  set  on  ice. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

To  whip  cream  successfully,  use  good  rich  cream.  Set  it  on 
ice  several  hours  before  using.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  put  in  a 
large  bowl  and  beat  with  an  egg-beater  ;  as  the  froth  rises  remove 
to  a  second  bowl,  or  if  desired  to  be  very  stiff,  place  on  a  sieve 
and  return  all  that  passes  through  to  the  bowl  to  be  beaten  again. 
When  the  cream  is  not  very  thick,  or  it  is  difficult  to  whip,  add  to 
it  and  beat  with  it  the  white  of  1  Qgg,  or  soak  one-fourth  ounce  of 
gelatine  for  1  hour  in  one-half  cup  cold  milk,  then  set  the  cup  of 


94  DESSERTS. 

gelatine  and  milk  into  boiling  water  over  a  fire,  and  stir  till  dis- 
solved ;  cool,  and  whip  into  the  cream.  Set  it  on  ice  or  in  a  very- 
cold  placCo  It  may  be  served  in  various  ways.  Baked  apples, 
and  fresh  or  preserved  berries  are  delicious  with  it.  Jelly-glasses, 
one-third  full  of  jelly  and  filled  up  with  cream,  make  a  very  whole- 
some and  delicious  dessert. 

APPLE  CUSTARD — 1. 
1  pint  apples,  4  eggs, 

1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter, 

K  cup  sugar,  Flavor  if  desired. 

Stew  tart  apples  and  put  through  a  sieve,  mix  in  the  proportions 
given  and  bake  20  minutes. 

APPLE  CUSTARD 2. 

8  or  10  large  apples,  5  eggs, 

1  quart  milk,  Sugar, 

Flavor  to  taste. 
Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  put  in  a  deep  dish  ;  fill  the  centers 
with  sugar,  add  a  very  little  water,  and  bake  till  done.  Make 
custard  with  the  eggs,  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  and  a  little  cin- 
namon or  nutmeg ;  pour  over  the  apples  while  hot  and  bake  till 
the  custard  is  done.     Serve  cold. 

ALMOND    CUSTARD. 

1  quart  milk,  6  eggs,  well  beaten, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  lemon  extract, 

}i  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded. 
Mix  these  ingredients  together  and  bring  to  a  boil,  take  from 
the  fire  and  stir  till  lukewarm  ;  put  into  cups  or  a  mould  to  cool. 
If  desired,  cover  with  the  whites  of  4  or  5  eggs,  well  beaten,  just 
before  serving. 

BAKED   CUSTARD 1. 

1  quart  milk,  5  tablespoons  sugar, 

4  eggs,  Flavor  to  taste. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together,  scald  the  milk  and  pour  over 
the  other  ingredients,  stir  together  well  and  pour  into  china  cups. 
Set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  upon  each, 
or  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  bake  till  firm.  Eat  cold  from 
the  cups.  Or,  add  a  little  more  sugar,  pour  the  custard  into  a 
basin  or  pudding  dish,  set  the  dish  into  a  dripping-pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     Try  with  a  straw ;  if  milky 


DESSERTS.  95 

it  is   not  done.     It  should   quiver  like  jelly  when   sufficiently 
cooked. 

BAKED   CUSTARD 2. 

1  quart  milk,  3  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  Nutmeg. 

Heat  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  nut- 
meg, stir  all  into  the  milk  when  boiling  hot,  strain  and  bake. 

BANANA  CUSTARD. 

1  Quart  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  heaping, 

3  bananas. 
When  the  custard  is  cool  pour  it  over  the  fruit  sliced  thin. 

CHEAP   CUSTARD. 

1  pint  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Put  the  milk  into  a  double  kettle,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  beat  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  stir  intx)  the  milk,  wet  the  flour  in  cold  milk,  see 
that  there  are  no  lumps  in  it,  then  stir  into  the  milk  and  cook  3  or 
4  minutes.     Flavor  when  cool. 

COFFEE  CUSTARD. 

4  eggs,  1  cup  cold  coffee, 

X  pint  milk,  Sugar  to  taste. 

^ook  as  for  boiled  custard. 

CORNSTARCH  CUSTARD. 

1  quart  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  eggs.  Butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut, 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch,     ^  teaspoon  salt. 

Flavor. 
Wet  the  starch  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder  to  near 
boiling,  in  a  pail  set  in  boiling  water.  The  proper  heat  will  be  in- 
dicated b}"  a  froth  or  film  rising  to  the  top ;  add  the  starch  till  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly,  then  the  eggs,  well  beaten  with  the 
sugar ;  butter  and  salt ;  cook,  stir  briskly,  take  off  and  beat  well 
and  flavor.      Served  with  grated  cocoanut  it  is  very  nice. 

HOMINY    CUSTARD. 

3  tablespoons  hominy,  Sugar, 
Salt,                                                        Flavoring, 

Milk,  Jam  or  stewed  fruit. 

To  1  pint  of  milk  add  hominy  and  salt;    boil  gently  until  it 


DESSERTS. 

thickens,  then  add  more  milk,  cook  until  sufficiently  thick  ;  add 
sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  mould  and  serve  cold 
with  jam  or  stewed  fruit. 

ORANGE   CUSTARD. 

4  oranges,  X  cup  sugar, 

4  eggs,  Powdered  sugar, 

1  quart  milk. 
Peel  and  slice  the  oranges  into  an  earthen  dish.  Sift  fine  sugar 
over  each  layer.  Make  a  custard,  using  2  whole  eggs  and  the 
yolks  of  2  more,  well  beaten,  milk  and  the  sugar.  Flavor  with 
vanilla ;  steam  until  done  and  pour  over  the  oranges.  Beat  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  sweeten  with  fine  sugar,  pour  over  the  cus- 
tard when  cool  and  set  in  the  oven  5  minutes.  A  little  orange 
juice  in  the  frosting  improves  it.  If  desired,  leave  out  1  egg  and 
add  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

RICE  CUSTARD. 

}4  cup  rice,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  quart  milk,  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 

4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Pinch  of  salt. 
Put  the  rice  in  the  milk  and  add  salt ;  steam  until  soft ;  just 
before  takmg  from  the  fire  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  the 
sugar,  and  mix  thoroughly  ;  flavor ;  do  not  cook  it  any  more. 
Pour  into  pudding  dish  and  cover  with  the  whites,  beaten  stiff 
with  the  powdered  sugar ;  brown  slightly  in  the  oven,  and  serve 
cold  with  tart  jelly. 

SNOW    CUSTARD. 
3  cups  sugar,  1}{  pints  milk, 

}4  box  gelatine,  1  lemon,  juice, 

1  cup  cold  water,  3  eggs, 

1  pint  boiling  water.  Vanilla. 

Soak  the  gelatine  1  hour  in  the  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water, 
stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  two-thirds  of  the  sugar,  and 
the  lemon  juice;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
when  the  gelatine  is  quite  cold,  whip  it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful 
at  a  time.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff,  pour 
in  a  mould,  or  in  1  dozen  egg  glasses  previously  wet  with  cold 
water;  set  in  a  cold  place.  In  4  or  5  hours  turn  into  a  glass 
dish.      Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  the  remaindej 


DESSERTS.  97 

of  the  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  when  the  meringue  or  snow- 
balls are  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the  base.  If 
desired,  omit  the  beaten  whites,  and  pour  the  jelly  into  the  mould. 
Serve  with  the  custard,  or  a  whipped  cream,  or  the  whites,  well 
beaten,  and  sweetened  with  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

STEAMED   CUSTARD. 

5  eggs,  1  quart  milk, 

%  cup  sugar,  Vanilla  or  lemon. 

Put  the  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  kettle ;  when  boiling,  add 
the  sugar  and  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
remove  from  the  fire,  cool  and  flavor.  Pour  into  custard  cups  and 
place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Steam  until  thick  and 
firm ;  cool  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top  of  each,  if  desired. 

STEAMED  CUSTARD. 

Custard. 

6  eggs,  yofks,  1  cup  sugar, 

3  cups  milk,  %  cup  grated  cocoanut, 

Pinch  of  salt. 
Steam  and  frost. 

Frosting  for  Custard. 
6  eggs,  whites,  Sugar, 

Cocoanut. 

To  the  beaten  whites  add  sufficient  sugar  and  cocoanut  to 
stiffen. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL. 
Gooseberries,  Cream, 

Sugar,  Gelatine, 

Milk  to  dissolve  gelatine. 

Remove  stems  and  blossoms  from  gooseberries,  stew  to  a  thick 
pulp,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  through  a  sieve,  if  desired. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  whip  the  same  quantity  of  cream  as  goose- 
berry pulp,  dissolve  gelatine  as  for  Whipped  Cream,  and  add  in  the 
proportion  of  2  tablespoons  to  1  quart  of  whipped  cream.  Re- 
serve one-fourth  of  the  whipped  cream,  add  gooseberry  pulp  to  the 
remainder  gently,  taking  care  not  to  break  it  down.  Put  into  cus- 
tard glasses,  and  heap  each  glass  with  the  whipped  cream.  Set  on 
ice  till  served. 


PASTBY. 

As  long  as  Americans  have  gained  a  reputation  for  being  a  pie- 
eating  people,  it  is  desirable  that  the  pies  themselves  shall  be 
well  made.  People  mistake  who  consider  pastry  made  with  little 
shortening  as  parti cularlj^  healthj^  Crust  which  is  tough  and 
heavy  is  far  more  hurtful  than  that  of  a  light,  tender,  and  flaky 
^imposition. 

Use  the  best  materials  in  making  pastry.  Butter  and  lard 
should  be  sweet,  fresh,  and  solid.  Have  the  water  ice-cold,  and 
make  the  pie-crust  in  a  cool  place.  It  is  much  improved  by  the 
addition  of  a  small  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  one  quart  of 
flour.  Pastry  is  nicer  to  stand  two  or  three  hours  in  a  cold  place 
after  making,  before  using,  and  it  may  be  kept  in  a  close-covered 
dish  in  an  ice-chest  for  several  days,  and  be  improved.  Some 
brands  of  flour,  though  better  for  bread,  will  never  make  good 
pastry,  and  regular  pastry  flour  will  be  found  cheaper  as  well  as 
ncer.  Brush  the  lower  crust  of  the  pie  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  prevent  its  becoming  soggy,  and  a  sprinkling  of  flour  and  sugar 
before  filling  prevents  the  leaking  of  juices.  Dredge  a  little  flour 
over  fresh  small  fruits,  after  adding  sugar,  before  laying  on  the 
upper  crust ;  it  is  nicer  than  cornstarch,  and  is  absorbed  better  in 
the  pie.  For  custard  pie,  sift  flour,  one  tablespoon  to  a  pie,  into 
the  sugar,  and  mix  well  together  before  adding  the  beaten  eggs. 
This  gives  the  consistency  desirable  in  serving,  and  does  not  affect 
the  taste.  The  milk  for  custard,  squash,  pumpkin  or  lemon  p?es 
should  be  hot  when  added  to  the  other  materials.  Do  not  fill  pies 
until  ready  to  bake,  and  stewed  fruit  must  be  cool  before  using  or 
the  pastry  will  be  sodden. 

Many  oooks  prefer  in  making  pastry  to  omit  some  of  the  buttei 

98 


PASTRY  99 

Jrom  the  general  preparation,  and  cutting  the  paste  into  equal 
parts,  roll  the  rest  of  the  butter  into  one  of  them  for  an  upper 
crust.  Cut  a  piece  from  the  other  paste,  roll  from  the  center  out, 
and  cover  the  pie  plate  ;  fit  it  well,  and  trim  off  the  edges  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Cut  off  a  piece  from  the  richer  paste  suflScient  for  an 
upper  cover,  roll  out  and  gently  lay  one  half  over  the  other.  Cut 
through  the  fold  five  times  near  the  center,  in  a  slanting  line. 
Fill  the  plate  with  the  pie  mixture,  wet  the  top  edge  of  the  rim, 
lay  on  the  upper  crust,  turn  back  the  half  that  was  doubled  over, 
and  fold  the  upper  edges  carefully  over  the  lower  ones,  or  press 
them  lightly  together.  The  edge  can  be  ornamented  with  the  in- 
dentations of  a  three-tined  fork.  Glaze  a  pie  by  brushing  it  over 
with  the  white  of  an  egg  before  baking. 

Use  tin,  not  earthen,  plates  in  baking;  dust  them  with  flour, 
but  never  grease  them.  Slip  the  pies  off  to  earthen  ones  as  soon 
as  baked  to  prevent  the  softening  of  the  crust. 

A  meringue  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoon  of  sugar 
to  the  white  of  an  egg ;  it  should  be  spread  upon  the  pie  as  soon 
as  baked  and  returned  to  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

The  oven  is  at  the  right  heat  for  baking  when  twenty  can  be 
counted  while  holding  the  hand  there,  and  the  same  temperature 
should  be  maintained  throughout  the  baking ;  this  heat  will  give  a 
rich  brown  color,  and  a  flaky  appearance  to  the  pie.  It  is  of  great 
importance  that  the  oven  should  be  at  the  right  and  steady  heat  to 
obtain  the  best  results  for  the  money,  time,  and  work  expended  in 
preparation. 

PUTP  PASTE. — 1. 

1  pound  butter,  1  cup  ice-water 

1  pound  flour,  1  egg. 

Wash  the  butter,  and  set  on  ice.  Have  the  ice-water  ready,  and 
make  the  paste  in  as  cool  a  place  as  possible.  Weigh  out  the 
sifted  flour,  put  into  a  large  bowl,  and  break  the  egg  into  a  hole 
made  in  the  flour ;  work  it  in  handling  as  little  as  possible.  Add 
the  ice-water,  making  a  soft  paste,  and  roll  out.  Divide  the  but- 
ter into  6  parts,  break  1  part  into  bits,  and  put  on  the  paste.  Dust 
with  flour,  fold  paste  from  the  sides  to  the  center,  and  then  in  3 
layers.      Turn  the  sides  round  and  roll  out  thin  j  break  another 


100  PASTRY. 

part  of  the  butter  into  bits  and  repeat  the  former  process.  In  a 
similar  way  use  the  remaining  parts  of  the  butter,  and  after  the 
final  rolling  and  folding,  set  it  in  the  ice  box  for  1  hour  before 
using.  E.0II  the  upper  crust  of  the  pie  quite  thick,  and  if  a  fiat 
earthen  plate  is  used  lay  two  narrow  strips  of  paste  on  the  lower 
crust  around  the  edge  of  the  plate.  The  pie  will  be  as  nice  if  a 
plainer  paste  is  used  for  the  lower  crust.  This  recipe  makes  nice 
tarts  and  patties. 

All  puff  paste  requires  a  strong,  steady  heat  to  bake  it  nicel3^ 

PUFF  PASTE — 2. 
%  pound  butter,  X  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 

1  pound  sifted  flour,  Ice-water. 

Free  the  butter  from  salt  by  working  it  in  water,  form  it  into  a 
square  lump,  and  place  on  ice  to  harden.  Put  the  fiour  into  a 
bowl,  and  rub  2  ounces  of  butter  very  thoroughly  into  it ;  use 
enough  water  to  make  this  of  the  consistency  of  the  butter. 
Place  the  paste  on  the  board,  dusting  it  under  and  over  with  fiour, 
and  roll  out  in  a  piece  12  inches  long  by  6  wide;  flour  the  butter 
well,  and  roll  in  a  sheet  8  inches  long  and  5  wide.  Place  the  sheet 
of  butter  on  the  paste,  leaving  one-half  inch  at  the  top  and  sides 
uncovered,  and  a  large  space  at  the  bottom ;  mix  cream  of  tartar 
with  twice  the  quantity  of  fiour,  and  sprinkle  it  evenly  over  the 
butter ;  fold  the  large  part  of  the  paste  not  covered  with  butter 
over  on  the  butter,  fold  the  other  part  with  the  butter  on  it  over 
that,  to  make  3  layers  of  dough  and  2  of  butter.  Roll  out  to  its 
original  size,  dust  with  flour,  fold  it  as  before,  roll  out  again,  dust 
with  flour,  and  fold  again  ;  repeat  twice  more,  giving  it  4  rollings 
and  foldings ;  when  rolled  for  the  last  time,  cut  it  through  in  2 
even  pieces,  and  place  one  on  the  other,  and  the  paste  is  ready  for 
use.  In  warm  weather  it  is  necessary  to  place  it  in  a  cool  place 
after  every  second  rolling,  in  very  warm  weather  after  each  rolling, 

and  sometimes  on  ice. 

PUFF  PASTE — 3. 

3  pints  flour,  2  eggs,  yolks, 

3  teacups  butter,  A  little  salt. 

Sift  the  flour ;  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  add  the  well-beaten 

yolks  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  paste.      Dredge  the 

board  with  flour,  roll  out  the  paste,  being  careful  to  flour  the  roll- 


PASTRY.  101 

fng  pin  and  the  hands.  Lift  the  rolled  paste  to  make  sure  that  it 
does  not  stick.  Knead  the  butter  until  it  is  soft  and  divide  into  6 
parts.  Spread  one  part  on  the  paste,  fold  the  edges  till  they 
touch  one  another,  roll  out,  spread  on  another  part  of  the  butter, 
roll  again,  and  repeat  until  all  the  butter  is  used.  Roll  this  up 
and  lay  it  over  ice  until  nearly  frozen,  or  put  it  in  a  cold  cellar. 

GOOD  PASTE — 1. 
1  cup  lard,  1  cup  butter, 

A  little  salt,  3  eggs,  whites, 

5  cups  flour. 
Work  lard  and  butter  lightly  into  the  flour,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
in  the  water  used  for  mixing,  add  a  piece  of  soda  size  of  a  small  pea 
and  mix.     Handle  as  little  as  possible.     For  the  upper  crust,  roll 
in  a  little  more  butter. 

GOOD  PASTE — 2. 

1  pound  sifted  flour,  X  pound  lard, 

X  pound  butter,  1  cup  water, 

3^  teaspoon  salt. 

Rub  or  cut  the  shortening  into  the  flour,  leaving  out  a  little  of 

the  butter  ;  mix  with  a  knife  while  adding  the  water ;  roll  out  into 

a  thin  sheet,  having  board  and  pin  well  floured  ;  cut  the  remainder 

of  the  butter  into  little  pieces  and  spread  one-half  on  the  paste, 

dredge  with  flour,  roll  up,  and  cut  in  halves  ;  divide  one  of  these 

into  3  parts,  roll  these  out  and  cover  as  many  pie  plates.      Take 

the  other  half  and  dot  with  the  bits  of  butter ;  dust  with  flour,  fold 

from  the  sides  toward  the  center,  roll  thin,  fold  in  3  layers,  and 

cut  into  3  equal  parts  ;  flour  the  ends,  roll  out  and  cover  the  pies. 

POTATO  PASTE. 
3  cups  sifted  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  mashed  potato,  yi  teaspoon  salt, 

Ice-water  or  milk. 
Put  the  potato  through  a  colander,  and  mix  with  the  flour,  but- 
ter and  salt,  adding  enough  liquid  for  a  stiff  paste.     Roll  out  and 
use  for  meat  pies. 

SUET  PASTE. 
2)4  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup  cold  water, 

1  cup  suet,  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

K  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Put  the  salt  and  baking  powder  into  the  flour,  adding  the  suel 


.102  PASTRY. 

fi'om  which  every  bit  of  fibre  has  been  removed.  Kub  all  together 
with  the  hands,  and  add  water  sufficient  to  make  a  firm,  soft  dough. 
Roll  out.     Nice  for  apple  dumplings  or  meat  pies. 

APPLE  PIE — 1. 

Select  sound,  tart  apples ;  pare  and  core  without  breaking  them, 
allowing  4  for  each  pie.  Put  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  lemon 
juice,  a  strip  of  yellow  peel,  some  sugar  and  enough  water  to  cook 
until  they  can  be  easily  pierced.  Quarter  more  apples,  put  them 
in  another  stewpan  with  lemon  juice,  peel,  sugar,  and  enough  water 
to  cover ;  stew  these  to  a  jam.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  and  one- 
fourth  the  bulk  of  the  apple  in  peach  marmalade ;  rub  all  through 
a  colander.  Line  pie  plates  with  good  paste  ;  put  on  the  bottom 
a  layer  of  apple  jam,  set  4  whole  apples  in  each  pie,  fill  the  cavi- 
ties in  the  apples  and  the  spaces  between  with  the  marmalade. 
Put  strips  of  the  crust,  one-half  inch  wide,  in  a  lattice-work  across 
the  top  between  the  apples,  and  trim  the  edge  neatly  with  1  or 
more  layers  of  notched  paste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes. 
See  that  it  bakes  evenly.      Serve  with  cream. 

APPLE  PIE — 2. 
Tart  apples,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

^  cup  sugar,  Small  bits  of  butter, 

1  tablespoon  water. 
Line  a  deep  plate  with  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  flour,  fill 
with  sliced  apples  ;  add  sugar,  cinnamon,  butter,  and  water.  Cover 
with  pastry,  and  bake  from  30  to  45  minutes.  Or,  line  pans  with 
crust,  fill  with  sliced  apples,  cover  with  paste  and  bake  ;  take  off 
cover,  put  in  sugar,  bits  of  butter  and  seasoning ;  replace  crust 
and  serve  warm.  It  is  delicious  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 
Crab  apple  pie,  if  made  of  "transcendents,"  will  fully  equal  those 
made  from  larger  varieties  of  apples,  but  will  require  a  full  cup  of 
sugar  to  each  pie. 

APPLE    COBBLER. 

6  large  apples,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  cloves. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  and  cut  each  into  8  pieces.     Lay  in  a 

deep  plate  lined  with  paste,  add  sugar,  spice  and  a  little  water. 

Cover  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  slowly  for  1  hour.     Serve  with 


PASTRY.  103 

cream,  or  a  sauce.     Peach  cobbler  is  made  in  a  similar  way,  but 
the  spices  are  omitted. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 
I  cup  sugar,  Sour  apples, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Peel,  core  and  stew  the  apples.  Rub  through  a  colander  and  to 
1^  cups  of  apple  add  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  well  together. 
Bake  with  only  one  crust,  using  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar  for  a  meringue.  Brown  nicely  by  returning 
it  to  the  oven  for  a  short  time.  Or,  to  1  cup  of  strained  apple 
add  1  cup  each  of  sugar  and  cream,  and  1  well-beaten  egg ;  mix  in 
the  given  order.  Flavor  to  taste,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE 1. 

Stew  dried  apples  with  a  little  lemon  peel  till  soft,  sweeten  to 
taste,  add  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon,  put  through  a  coarse  sieve,  stir 
in  a  beaten  egg,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  bake  with  2  crusts. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE 2. 

1  quart  dried  apple  sauce,    1  cup  raisins, 

2  cups  sugar,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 

Press  the  dried  apple  sauce  through  a  sieve,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, bake  in  2  crusts  and  serve  warm. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE 3. 

%  teacup  mashed  apple,  1  egg, 

1  cup  sweet  cream,  Sugar  to  taste, 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  the  apple  and  egg  together  3  minutes,  add  the  cream  and 

sugar  and  beat  2  minutes.     This  makes  1  pie ;  bake  with  2  cruets. 

APPLE  MERINGUE  PIE. 

Cook  tart  and  juicy  apples,  put  through  a  colander,  add  sugar, 
and  flavor  to  taste  ;  fill  the  crust  and  bake.  When  done  cover  the 
apple  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  into  a  quick  oven  till  the  meringue 
is  "set,"  and  eat  cold.  In  their  season  substitute  peaches  for 
apples. 


104  PASTRY. 

PUMPKIN  PIE — 

1  pint  pumpkin,  sifted,  4  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

4  eggs,  3  cups  sugar, 

3  pints  new  milk,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 

A  little  butter,  Salt. 

Warm  the  pumpkin,  and  stir  in  the  salt,  spices,  sugar,  and  welL 

beaten  eggs.     Mix  and  add  the  milk  heated  sufficiently  to  melt 

the  butter.     This  quantity  makes  two  large  pies. 

PUMPKIN  PIE — 3. 
Yz  pint  milk,  good  measure,  1  ^^^^ 

1  large  tablespoon  sifted  pumpkin,  X  tablespoon  flour, 

Yz  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  ginger, 

Salt,  3  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

Beat  together  the  pumpkin,  flour  and  spices  ;  add  the  sugar  and 
well-beaten  ^gg.  Add  milk  and  stir  all  together.  This  makes 
one  pie. 

RAISIN  PIE. 
1  pound  raisins,  boiled  an  hour,  Juice  of  1  lemon, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  melted  butter. 

Bake  with  2  crusts.  This  is  sufficient  for  two  pies.  The  pies 
should  be  as  juicy  as  apple  pies  when  baked,  and,  if  preferred,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  may  be  added  to  the  ingredients. 

RASPBERRY  PIE 1. 

1  pint  raspberries,  2.^  cup  sugar, 

A  little  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Line  the  pan  with  good  crust  and  fill  with  the  berries  ;  spread 
over  them  the  sugar,  flour  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Wet  the  edge 
of  the  crust,  put  on  the  upper  crust  and  pinch  the  edges  closely  to- 
gether. Cut  holes  in  the  upper  crust  to  allow  the  air  to  escape. 
Bake  one-half  hour. 

RASPBERRY  PIE 2. 

Line  pie  tins  with  plain  crust,  sprinkling  flour  thickly  over  the 
bottom,  and  if  dried  raspberries  are  used,  they  must  previously  be 
soaked  in  water  until  of  the  original  size ;  fill  with  the  berries, 
dredge  on  flour,  spread  thickly  with  sugar,  add  a  few  bits  of  but 
ter,  and  cover  with  an  upper  crust.  If  a  richer  pie  is  desired, 
omit  the  top  crust,  and  pour  over  1  cup  of  whipped  sweet  cream. 
Bake  quickly. 


PUDDINGS.  105 

ROLLED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Peel  and  chop  fine  tart  apples,  make  a  crust  of  1  cup  rich  but- 
termilk, 1  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll ;  roll  half  an 
inch  thick,  spread  with  the  apple,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon, cut  in  strips  2  inches  wide,  roll  up  like  jelly  cake,  set  the 
rolls  in  a  dripping  pan,  lay  a  teaspoon  of  butter  on  each,  put  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  baste  them  often  with  the  juice. 

APPLE  ROLLY-POLY. 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  sour  apples,  make  a  rich  soda  biscuit 
dough,  or  raised  biscuit  dough  may  be  used  if  rolled  thin,  roll  half 
an  inch  thick,  slice  the  quarters,  and  lay  on  the  prepared  paste  or 
crust,  roll  up,  tuck  ends  in,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  lay  in  a 
a  steamer  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cook  If  hours. 
Or,  wrap  in  a  cloth,  tie  the  ends  and  baste  the  sides  together,  put 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  steadily  1^  hours.  Cut 
across  in  slices  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream,  or  butter  and 
sugar.  Cherries,  dried  fruit,  any  kind  of  berries,  jelly,  or  apple 
butter  may  be  used.     With  the  last  two  add  raisins. 

BANANA   PUDDING. 
1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  water,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,       Flour  to  make  a  thin,  smooth  batter. 
Bake  in  two  deep  tins.     Slice  3  bananas,  and  place  between 

with  a  sprinkling  of  sugar.  Serve  warm  with  thin  cream.  One- 
half  of  this  recipe  makes  enough  for  a  family  of  four.  A  slightly 
sour  sauce  flavored  with  vanilla  is  a  substitute  for  cream. 

BATTER  PUDDING. 
2  cups  milk,  4  eggs, 

2  cups  flour,  Salt. 

1  largo  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
Sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour,  add  salt,  and  if  liked  a  lit- 
tle melted  butter,  then  the  milk  graduall}',  stirring  carefully,  and 
the  well-beaten  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately.  This  will  bake 
in  50  minutes.  If  the  pudding  is  to  be  boiled,  make  stifl'er  than 
for  baking,  and  if  fruit  is  used  it  must  be  very  stiflf.  It  should 
not  stick  to  the  knife  when  served.  Serve  with  a  rich  sauce.  The 
batter  is  nicer  if  6  instead  of  4  eggs  are  used. 


106 


PUDDING  SAUCE. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

BUTTERLESS  SAUCE. 
%  pint  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs, 

%,  gill  milk,  Flavoring. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  double  kettle ;  when  hot  add  the  3'olks  of 
eggs  beaten  well  with  the  sugar.  Cook  as  custard,  take  off  and 
add  flavoring  when  cool.  Just  before  serving  mix  the  well-beaten 
whites  lightly  with  the  sauce. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 
1  cup  sugar,  Large  stick  cinnamon, 

3  cloves,  1  cup  boiling  water, 

Lemon  peel. 
Boil  these  together  10  minutes.  Malie  a  caramel  from  4  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  water.  Cook  it  over  a 
hot  fire  in  an  old  tin  pan  ;  stir  with  a  smooth  stick  until  the  water 
evaporates,  and  it  is  a  nice  brown  color.  Strain  the  sauce  over 
the  caramel,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  remove  from  the  fire. 

CHOCOLATE    SAUCE. 

1  cup  milk,  4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate, 

li  cup  cream,  2  eggs,  yolks, 

li  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  the  chocolate  in  the  milk;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  pour  over  them  the  hot  milk ;  whip  in  the  cream,  cook 
like  boiled  custard,  and  add  vanilla  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

CREAM    SAUCE 1. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  cream, 

%  cup  butter,  j^  cup  boiling  water, 

Flavoring. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream,  the  boiling 

water,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  in  a  double  boiler  or  a  pail  set  in 

boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.     Flavor  when  cool. 

CREAM    SAUCE 2. 

1  pint  cream,  }4  cup  sugar, 

3  eggs,  whites,  Nutmeg. 

Let  the  cream  come  almost  to  boiling  in  a  custard  kettle ;  set 
off,  add  the  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg,  with  a  little  rose-water,  if 
liked.  Stir  thoroughly,  and  when  cool  add  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Set  in  hot  water  to  keep  warm  till  needed,  stirring 
occasionally. 


PUDDING  SAUCE.  107 

GOLDEN  SAUCE. 

2  eggs,  yolks,  3  tablespoons  boiling  water, 

1  cup  sugar.  Lemon  juice, 

Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  until  creamy.  Set  the  bowl  into  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water  and  beat  steadily  while  pouring  in  the  boiling 
water.  When  thick  and  foamy,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top  of  the  sauce.  The 
juice  of  an  orange  and  half  the  grated  rind  may  be  used  instead 
of  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg. 

HARD    SAUCE. 
1  cup  powdered  sugar,  }i  cup  butter, 

Lemon  juice,  Nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  lemon  juice.  Place 
in  a  mould,  set  on  ice,  and  serve  when  cold,  grating  a  little  nut- 
meg over  it.  This  is  made  more  delicate  by  adding  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  before  setting  away  to  harden. 

JELLY    SAUCE. 

1  cup  boiling  water,  14,  cup  cold  water, 
14,  cup  jelly,                                         2  tablespoons  sugar, 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch. 

Melt  the  sugar  and  jelly  in  the  boiling  water,  and  stir  into  it  the 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  the  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and 
serve  hot. 

LEMON   SAUCE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

2  cups  boiling  water,  2  lemons, 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch,  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Beat  eggs,  sugar,  butter  and  cornstarch  together,  and  pour  over 

them  the  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly ;  strain  and  cook  over 

boiling  water  until  thick ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  juice 

and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons. 

MAPLE    SUGAR  SAUCE. 

1  cup  water,  4  tablespoons  butter, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour. 

Melt  the  sugar  in  the  water  over  a  slow  fire ;  remove  the  scum  ; 

add  the  butter  mixed  well  with  the  fl.ourj    boil  5  minutes,  and 

serve  with  boiled  puddings. 


lO.S 


PUDDING  SAUCE 


VANILLA    SAUCE. 

1  oup  milk,  1  large  teaspoon  vanilla, 

3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  pour  over  the  yolks  o:f 
eggs  beaten  with  the  sugar ;  strain,  and  return  to  the  kettle ;  cook 
till  it  thickens,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  vanilla  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

VINEGAR   SAUCE. 
1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

3  cups  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

A  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Omit  the  water  and  beat  the  other  ingredients  well  together. 
Add  the  boiling  water,  stir  thoroughly  and  boil  10  minutes. 
Serve. 


mmiMmmi^mimimiMmimimmimimdiwiiiiimmimiiijm 


PURE  water  is  the  one  necessary  beverage,  but  desire  or  habit 
makes  three  others  essential.  Of  these  three,  chocolate  both 
nourishes  and  strengthens  the  system,  and  science  claims  that  cof- 
fee is  not  only  a  gentle,  natural  stimulant,  but  nourishing  in  a 
small  degree,  while  tea  is  stimulating  and  astringent.  Many  ob- 
ject to  chocolate  because  of  its  hearty  character,  but  there  are 
various  preparations  which  adapt  it  to  the  most  delicate.  Tannic 
acid,  the  injurious  property  in  coffee  and  tea,  is  repressed  or  devel- 
oped in  making. 

Do  not  make  coffee  in  a  tea-pot,  or  tea  in  one  used  for  choco- 
late, but  let  each  have  its  own  vessel.  Keep  them  clean,  scald 
before  using,  and  afterward  wash  in  fresh  water,  rinse,  and  dry 
immediately. 

As  the  life  of  water  is  destroyed  by  long  boiling  or  re-boiling, 
use  only  fresh-boiled  water  in  making  these  drinks.  Give  the 
preference  to  soft  rather  than  hard  water  for  such  purposes. 

Hot  milk  is  a  most  refreshing  and  nourishing  beverage,  and  one 
that  cannot  be  too  highly  recommended.  Directions  for  preparing 
it  are  given  in  the  recipe. 

During  hot  weather,  drinks  made  from  fruits,  or  their  juices  in 
some  form,  are  especially  grateful  and  necessary  to  health.  The 
acid  of  lime  and  lemon  juice,  and  of  shrubs,  or  the  sub-acid  of 
fruit  juices,  not  only  allay  thirst,  but  cool  the  blood  and  supply  a 
natural  tonic  greatly  needed  by  the  system. 

Two  recipes  are  given  for  the  old-fashioned  root  beer  made  by 
the  mothers  and  grandmothers  of  the  present  generation.  They 
will  be  found  most  palatable  as  well  as  healthful  and  invigorating. 

For  an  immediate  effect  when  warm  or  cold,  hungry  or  ex- 
hausted, drink  is  preferable  to  a  solid  food,  as  some  time  is  re- 

109 


110  DRINKS. 

quired  for  the  latter  to  affect  the  system.  Cold  water,  not  ice- 
water,  in  small  quantities,  is  the  best  to  allay  great  thirst.  Hold 
it  in  the  mouth  close  to  the  tonsils  before  swallowing,  while  keep- 
ing the  palms  of  the  hands  wet  and  a  wet  cloth  around  the  wrists. 
The  best  drinks  for  the  other  conditions  are  milk,  chocolate  and 
broth. 

COFFEE. 

To  avoid  adulteration,  buy  coffee  in  the  grain,  either  raw  or  in 
small  quantities  freshly  roasted.  The  best  kinds  are  the  Mocha 
and  0.  Gr.  Java ;  mix  the  two,  having  roasted  them  separately,  in 
the  proportion  of  one-third  of  the  former  to  two-thirds  of  the  lat- 
ter.     West  India  coffee,  though  of  a  different  flavor,  is  often  good. 

Roast  coffee  with  the  greatest  care — here  lies  the  secret  of  suc- 
cess in  coffee-making — and  in  small  quantities,  for  there  is  a  pe- 
culiar freshness  of  flavor  when  newly  roasted.  Pick  over  carefully, 
wash  and  dry  in  a  moderate  oven,  increase  the  heat  and  roast 
quickly,  either  in  the  oven,  or  on  top  of  the  stove  or  range ;  in  the 
latter  case,  stir  constantly,  and  in  the  oven  stir  often,  with  a 
wooden  spoon  or  ladle  kept  for  this  purpose.  The  cofrae  must  be 
thoroughly  and  evenly  roasted  to  a  rich  brown  throughout,  and 
must  be  free  from  any  burnt  grains,  a  few  of  which  will  ruin  the 
flavor.  It  must  be  tender  and  brittle ;  to  test  it  take  a  grain, 
place  it  on  the  table,  press  with  the  thumb,  and  if  it  can  be 
crushed,  it  is  done.  Stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  while  the  coffee  is 
hot,  or  wait  until  about  half  cold  and  stir  in  a  well-beaten  egg. 
The  latter  plan  is  very  economical,  as  coffee  so  prepared  needs  no 
further  clarif^ang.  Keep  in  a  closely-covered  tin  or  earthen  ves- 
sel. Never  attempt  other  work  while  roasting  coffee,  but  give  it 
the  entire  attention.  Grind  fine,  and  only  in  the  quantity  needed, 
for  the  flavor  is  dissipated  after  grinding,  even  when  covered.  If 
properly  roasted,  coffee  will  grind  into  distinct,  hard,  and  gritty 
particles,  and  not  into  a  powder. 

Physicians  say  that  coffee  without  cream  is  more  wholesome, 
particularly  for  delicate  persons.  There  is  an  element  in  coffee 
which,  combining  with  milk,  forms  a  leathery  coating  on  the  stom- 
ach, and  impairs  digestion. 


DRINKS.  Ill 

PRAIRIE  COFFEE. 

1  pint  corn  meal,  1  pint  wheat  flour, 

}4  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

Water  for  stiff  dough. 

Mix,  roll  thin,  cut  out  like  yeast  cakes  ;  put  in  a  pan  and  dry  in 
the  oven.  When  thoroughly  dry,  brown  very  dark.  To  use,  put 
2  or  3  of  the  cakes  and  1  tablespoon  of  the  coffee  in  the  pot,  pour 
on  boiling  water,  let  boil  and  settle. 

RICH  AND    STRONG  COFFEE. 

1  cup  best  ground  coffee,  1  quart  boiling  water, 

1  egg,  white,  K  cup  cold  water. 

Beat  the  white,  mix  with  the  coffee,  add  cold  water,  put  in  the 

coffee-pot  and  stir  in  gradually  the  boiling  water.     Boil  1  minute. 

Take  from  the  fire  and  put  on  the  hearth  to  settle. 

STEAMED  COFFEE. 

Put  coffee  into  the  pot,  pour  boiling  water  on  it ;  place  this  pot, 
which  is  made  to  fit,  into  the  top  of  the  teakettle,  and  cook  from 
10  to  20  minutes  over  boiling  water.  This  makes  a  clear,  de- 
licious coffee.  Some  persons  hold  that  by  first  wetting  the  coffee 
with  cold  water,  bringing  it  to  boiling  point,  and  then  pouring  in 
boiling  water,  more  of  the  strength  is  extracted. 

VIENNA    COFFEE. 

Filter  the  coffee,  allowing  1  tablespoon  ground  coffee  to  each  per- 
son, and  1  for  the  pot.  Put  1  quart  of  cream  into  a  custard  kettle 
or  pail  set  into  boiling  water,  where  it  will  keep  boiling  ;  beat  the 
white  of  1  Qgg  to  a  froth  and  mix  well  with  3  tablespoons  cold 
milk.  As  soon  as  the  cream  is  hot,  remove  from  fire,  add  the 
mixed  ^gg  and  milk.     Stir  together  for  1  minute  and  serve. 

Another  method  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  coffee,  cover 
closely,  boil  1  minute,  remove  to  the  side  of  the  stove  a  few  min- 
utes to  settle  and  serve.  Allow  2  heaping  tablespoons  coffee  to  1 
pint  water. 

GOOD  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  CREAM  IN  COFFEE. 

Beat  well  the  white  of  an  Qgg,  and  add  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
whipping  all  together.  Pour  coffee  over  this  slowly,  stirring  so  it 
will  not  curdie. 


112  n  RINKS 

ICED  TEA 1. 

Pi'epitre  tea  in  the  morning,  making  it  stronger  and  sweeter  than 
usual ;  strain  and  pour  into  a  clean  stone  jug  or  glass  bottle,  and 
set  aside  in  the  ice  chest  until  ready  to  use.  Drink  from  goblets 
without  cream.  Serve  ice  broken  in  small  pieces  on  a  platter 
nicely  garnished  with  well-washed  grape  leaves. 

ICED  TEA — 2. 

Iced  tea  should  have  no  hot  water  poured  over  it,  but  be  allowed 
to  stand  in  cold  water  for  several  hours.  It  should  be  made  very 
strong,  then  weakened  with  ice.  Soft  water  should  always  be 
used  for  making  tea. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

Into  freshly-steeped  tea  drop  slices  of  lemon,  without  the  seeds, 
in  the  proportion  of  1  slice  to  1  small  cup  of  tea.  It  can  be  used 
with  or  without  sugar,  and  is  particularly  nice  if  served  cold  with 
bits  of  ice  in  the  cups. 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

GINGER  BEER 1. 

2  ounces  ginger  root,  4  quarts  boiling  water, 

2  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind, 

IX  pounds  sugar,  }i  cup  yeast. 

Break  the  ginger  root  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  large  bowl  or 
crock  with  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  lemon  ;  pour  on  boiling 
water,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast.  Let  it  stand  6  hours, 
strain,  and  put  up  in  self-sealing  bottles.  It  should  be  kept  in  a 
cool  place. 

GINGER  BEER 2. 

5  ounces  ginger  root,  }4  gallon  water 

1  lemon,  yellow  peel. 

Ordinary  ginger,  tied  in  a  bag,  may  be  substituted  for  the  root ; 

boil  the  ingredients  one-half  hour,  then  add 

4  gallons  water,  ^  pound  honey, 

5  pounds  sugar,  1}4  pints  yeast, 

Juice  of  4  lemons- 
MtrTiin  when  cold,  add  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  Qgg ;  let  stand 
4  days  and  then  bottle. 


THERE  is  no  food  that  contains  so  large  a  proportion  of  nutri- 
ment according  to  its  bulk  as  eggs  ;  they  are  a  meal  in  them- 
selves. Plain  boiled,  they  are  wholesome ;  and  it  i*  asserted  on 
French  authority  that  it  is  easy  to  dress  them  in  five  hundred  dif- 
ferent ways,  economical  and  palatable.  They  contain  phosphorus, 
which  is  brain  food,  and  also  sulphur,  which  performs  a  variety  of 
functions  in  our  physical  economy.  That  they  are  too  expensive 
seems  to  be  the  excuse  most  often  given  for  their  non-appearance 
during  the  greater  part  of  the  year;  but  at  twenty -five  cents  a 
dozen  they  are  cheaper  than  steak  at  fifteen  cents,  or  chickens  at  a 
shilling  a  pound,  and  much  more  healthful  during  the  warm 
weather. 

As  a  food  for  children,  eggs  cannot  well  be  excelled,  as  they 
contain  in  a  compact  form  everything  necessar}'  to  the  growth  of 
the  youthful  frame.  Eggs  are  not  only  food  but  medicine.  The 
white  is  very  efficacious  in  case  of  burns ;  and  the  oil  from  the 
yolk  is  quite  a  cure  for  bruises,  cuts  and  scratches.  A  raw  egg, 
if  swallowed  in  time,  will  effectually  detach  a  fish-bone  in  the 
throat,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  are  a  sure  and  convenient  anti- 
dote for  the  poison  of  corrosive  sublimate.  They  strengthen  con- 
sumptives and  invigorate  the  feeble. 

Many  elaborate  inventions  for  testing  the  newness  of  eggs  have 
been  patented,  but  to  the  housewife  of  experience  they  are  not  neces- 
sary, and  one  lacking  experience  may  very  soon  gain  it.  A  piece 
of  pasteboard  five  or  six  inches  square,  with  a  hole  in  the  center, 
about  an  inch  square,  held  in  front  of  a  strong  light,  is  all  the  ap- 
paratus necessary  for  the  purpose,  especially  for  determining  the 
freshness  of  lightrshelled  eggs.  Place  the  egg  against  the  hole, 
and  look  through  it ;  if  it  is  a  new-laid  egg  it  will  be  quite  full, 
but  after  about  twenty  hours  an  air-chamber  or  open  space  can  be 
seen  at  the  larger  end,  and  this  gradually  enlarges  as  the  egg  grows 
older.  A  bad  egg  will  not  only  have  a  large  air-space,  but  the 
contents  will  be  seen  to  have  a  mixed  appearance  towards  the  cen- 

113 


114  EGGS. 

ter.  Get  a  new-laid  egg,  and  some  of  different  ages,  and  look  at 
them,  and  one  such  lesson  will  be  sufficient.  A  piece  of  paste- 
board can  be  easily  obtained,  and  if  a  lamp  is  not  at  hand,  the 
sunlight  will  answer  the  purpose  nicely,  so  the  thrifty  housewife 
need  not  pa}^  for  good  eggs  and  receive  poor  ones. 

A  simpler  way  to  examine  them  is  to  put  them  into  a  weak 
brine.  A  heaping  tablespoon  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  water 
will  make  it  the  right  strength.  Eggs  that  are  not  more  than  a 
day  old  will  fall  to  the  bottom  of  this  brine  ;  if  more  than  six  days 
old  they  will  float ;  if  very  bad  they  are  so  buoyant  as  to  ride  on 
on  the  surface  of  the  brine. 

To  beat  whites  of  eggs  :  Use  an  earthen  dish,  broader  at  the 
top  than  at  the  bottom,  and  the  bottom  deeper  in  the  center  than 
at  the  sides.  Break  the  eggs  gently,  and  allow  the  whites  to  fall 
in  the  basin  while  the  yolks  are  kept  in  the  shell.  This  is  done 
by  breaking  the  egg  in  the  middle,  opening  slowly  to  let  the  white 
fall ;  if  some  remains  turn  the  yolk  from  one  half  to  the  other  till 
the  whole  has  fallen.  Add  a  very  small  pinch  of  salt  to  prevent 
curdling,  beat  slowly  at  first,  and  increase  the  speed  as  the  egg 
grows  light.  It  is  done  when  it  will  not  slide  on  the  inclined  sur- 
face of  the  dish. 

There  are  few  ways  of  preparing  eggs  that  are  really  difficult, 
but  these  hints  may  prove  helpful :  A  little  pinch  of  soda  should 
be  added  to  all  kinds  of  custard,  and  they  will  not  whey  so  easily ; 
if  hot  milk  is  called  for  in  a  recipe,  remember  that  it  must  be 
poured  over  the  eggs,  instead  of  stirring  the  eggs  into  the  milk,  or 
they  will  be  found  cooked  in  little  strings,  or  have  a  curdled  ap- 
pearance. This  rule  is  reversed,  however,  in  making  soup  of  milk 
and  eggs,  when  the  stringy  appearance  is  desirable.  Where  fruit  is 
called  for,  be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  juice,  especially  that 
which  is  stewed  or  canned.  Try  custard  to  determine  if  done  by 
a  clean  broom  straw  or  a  knitting  needle  ;  if  it  comes  out  smooth, 
remove  the  custard  from  the  stove  at  once. 

A  few  directions  for  preserving  eggs  are  given  here :  Eggs  will 
Keep  in  salt  or  when  put  down  in  lime,  but  are  apt  to  taste  strong 
after  a  time,  and  the  whites  become  thin  and  watery.  The  best 
way  is  to  dip  them  in  a  strong  solution  of  gum  arable  ;  dry  them, 


EGKiM.  115 

dip  again  and  dry  thoroughly ;  then  wrap  eacn  egg  in  paper,  and 
pack  them  in  bran.  Use  only  fresh  eggs,  and  one  will  have  fresh 
eggs  in  the  winter  when  wanted.  It  is  some  trouble,  but  like 
many  other  things  requiring  time  and  patience,  the  end  pays  foi 
the  work. 

Eggs  may  be  preserved  by  rubbing  them  with  a  preparation 
made  of  equal  parts  of  beef  suet  and  mutton  tallow  melted  to- 
gether. It  should  be  soft  enough  to  spread  well  when  applied. 
Be  sure  that  eveiy  part  of  the  egg  is  touched,  and  when  all  are 
greased,  begin  with  the  ones  first  treated,  wipe  them  with  a  cloth, 
roll  them  in  paper,  and  pack  them  in  bran.  A  French  method  is 
to  smear  them  with  olive  oil  in  which  a  little  beeswax  has  been 
melted ;  also  to  paint  them  over  with  varnish. 

Another  tested  way  is  to  pack  them  firmly  in  dry  sawdust,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  There  has  always  existed  a  great  dif- 
ference of  opinion  as  to  which  end  down  eggs  should  be  placed, 
in  packing  for  winter  use.  W.  H.  Todd,  the  well-known  Ohio 
breeder  of  poultry,  gives  what  seems  to  be  a  sound  reason  for 
packing  them  larger  end  down.  He  says  :  ' '  The  air-chamber  is 
in  the  larger  end,  and  if  that  is  placed  down  the  yolk  will  not 
break  through  and  touch  the  shell,  and  thereby  spoil.  Another 
thing,  if  the  air-chamber  is  down,  the  egg  is  not  as  liable  to  shrink 
away.  These  are  two  important  reasons  deducted  from  experi- 
ments, and  they  materially  affect  the  keeping  of  eggs. " 

RECIPES  FOR  COOKING  EOOS. 

BAKED  EGGS — 1. 

Plain  baked  eggs  make  a  pretty  breakfast  dish.  Take  a  deep 
eai-then  plate,  butter  it  and  break  in  the  eggs,  adding  salt,  pepper, 
bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Garnish  with  curled 
parsley,  and  serve  with  buttered  toast. 

BAKED  EGGS — 2. 
8  eggs,  3  tablespoons  cream, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Bits  of  butter. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  well-buttered  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  add  the  butter  and  cream  \  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  until 
the  whites  are  set,  or  10  minutes.  Serve  very  hot.  Grated  cheese 
may  be  sifted  over  it. 


116 


EGGS. 


EGG   BASKETS. 

Boil  6  eggs  hard,  cut  nearly  in  half  and  extract  the  yolks  ;  rub 
these  to  a  paste  with  some  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  then  set 
aside.  Pound  the  minced  meat  of  cold  roast  chicken,  duck  or 
turkey  in  the  same  manner,  and  mix  with  the  egg  paste,  moisten- 
ing with  melted  butter,  or  with  a  little  of  the  gravy.  Cut  off  a 
slice  from  the  bottom  of  the  hollowed  whites  of  the  eggs,  to  make 
them  stand ;  fill  with  the  paste,  and  put  them  close  together  upon 
a  flat  dish.  Pour  over  the  gravy  left  from  the  roast,  heated  boil- 
ing hot,  and  mellowed  by  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Set  into  the  oven  5  minutes,  and  serve. 

birds'  nests — 1. 
1  ounce  fowl  or  meat,  Chopped  parsley, 

}^  cup  bread  crumbs,  Powdered  thyme  and  marjoram, 

j^  pint  stock,  K  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice, 

1  egg,  4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Mince  the  fowl  or  meat  fine ;  add  bread  crumbs,  herbs  and  lemon 
juice,  with  the  well-beaten  egg  to  bind  the  mixture.  Have  the 
eggs  warm,  take  from  the  shells  and  cover  with  the  mixture.  Fry 
them  a  light  brown.  Cut  them  in  halves,  and  also  cut  off  the  end 
of  the  white,  that  they  may  stand  on  the  platter.  Have  the  stock 
hot,  and  well  seasoned ;  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

birds'  nests — 2. 
Boil  eggs  hard,  remove  shells,  surround  with  force-meat ;  cut  in 
halves,  fry  or  bake  till  nicely  browned,  and  place  in  the  dish  with 
gravy. 

BOILED   EGGS. 

Eggs  cannot  be  too  fresh  for  boiling,  but  a  new-laid  egg  requires 
a  little  longer  time  in  cooking  than  one  three  or  five  days  old ; 
to  make  it  particularly  nice,  slip  it  into  a  covered  vessel  of  cold 
water,  and  when  the  water  boils  it  will  be  beautifully  cooked,  the 
white  delicate  as  a  jelly,  not  tough  and  hard  as  when  ordinarily 
cooked  by  putting  into  boiling  water.  The  nicest  way  to  eat  a 
soft-boiled  egg  is  from  the  shell.  Place  the  small  end  of  the  egg 
in  an  egg  cup.  The  large  end  should  have  the  shell  removed; 
then  take  away  a  small  piece  of  the  white  and  there  is  ample  room 
for  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  which  may  be  mixed  with  the  egg 
without  diflSculty.      The  serving,  however,  is  a  mere  matter  of 


EGGS.  117 

taste,  and  many  prefer  the  egg  broken  into  an  egg  cup  or  glass. 
Or,  send  the  eggs  to  the  table  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  on  boiling  water. 
After  5  minutes  drain,  and  cover  with  more  boiling  water.  Serve 
in  5  minutes.  This  is  a  simple  and  healthy  way  of  boiling  eggs, 
and  should  always  be  used  for  invalids  and  delicate  persons. 
Eggs  for  salads,  garnishings,  and  to  be  eaten  hard,  should  be 
boiled  from  30  to  45  minutes.  They  are  unhealthy  otherwise,  and 
the  yolks  when  mashed  will  not  be  mealy  or  free  from  lumps.  To 
shell  them,  drop  into  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  roll  on  the  table 
with  the  hand,  and  the  shell  will  peel  off  easily.  If  they  have 
been  allowed  to  become  cold,  dip  for  1  minute  in  boiling  hot  water, 
and  proceed  in  the  same  manner. 

HARD-BOILED  EGGS. 
Ham  or  dried  beef,  A  little  mixed  mustard, 

A  bit  of  butter,  Hard-boiled  eggs. 

Cut  the  eggs  in  halves,  take  out  the  j'olks,  mix  with  the  minced 
ham  or  dried  beef,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  the  mus- 
tard and  butter.  Stuff  each  half  of  the  egg  and  stand  on  a  hot 
platter.     Serve  hot  with  a  Bechamel  sauce. 

Sauce. 
}4  teacup  sifted  flour,  1  pint  milk, 

}i  teaspoon  salt,  1  small  onion, 

A  little  black  pepper,  A  little  parsley. 

Rub  flour  and  milk  smooth,  boil  slowly,  adding  salt,  onion,  pep- 
per and  parsley.  When  thick,  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and 
strain.     Thin  it  with  cream  if  necessary. 

BREADED  EGGS. 

Boil  6  eggs  hard.  When  cold,  remove  the  shells,  slice  them 
lengthwise ;  dip  each  slice  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  or  boiling  lard.      Serve  hot. 

EGGS  BROUILLE. 
6  eggs,  2  mushrooms, 

X  cup  milk  or  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  A  little  pepper. 

Nutmeg. 
Cut  the  mushrooms  into  dice,  fry  1  minute  in  1  tablespoon  of 
butter ;  beat  the  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  cream  together,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan.     Add  the  butter  and  mushrooms  to  these  ingre- 


118  EGGS. 

dients,  stir  over  a  moderate  heat  until  the  mixtui-e  begins  to 
thicken,  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  rapidly  until  the  eggs  become 
thick  and  creamy.  Have  slices  of  toast  on  a  hot  dish.  Heap  the 
mixture  on  these  and  garnish  with  points  of  toast.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 

EGGS  1  LA  CREME. 

Hard  boil  12  eggs,  and  slice  in  thin  rings.  Butter  well  a  deep 
baking  dish,  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  egg 
slices.  Sprinkle  the  layers  with  salt  and  pepper,  adding  bits  of 
butter.  Let  the  top  layer  be  of  bread  crumbs.  Cover  with  sweet 
cream  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CURRIED  EGOS. 

1  pint  stock,  1  cnp  cream, 

1  tablespoon  curry  powder,  2  onions, 

8  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Slice  the  onions  and  fry  in  butter ;  add  the  curry  and  broth ; 
stew  till  the  onions  are  tender,  then  add  the  cream  thickened  with 
rice  flour  and  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Cut  the  eggs  in  halves  or 
slices,  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  sauce.  Set  the 
digh  over  boiling  water  till  the  eggs  are  hot,  and  serve. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

12  fresh  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  mustard, 

}4  teaspoon  powdered  celery,        Butter,  size  of  an  egg, 
4  tablespoons  vinegar. 

Boil  the  eggs,  take  off  the  shells  and  cut  across  in  the  middle ; 
take  out  the  j^olks  and  mix  them  with  the  other  ingredients ;  cut  a 
thin  slice  from  the  end  of  the  white  of  the  egg,  so  each  cup  will 
set  firmly  on  the  platter,  and  fill  with  the  prepared  mixture. 
Gramish  with  celery,  lettuce  or  nasturtium  leaves.  Serve  with  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  butter.  Or,  cut  the  eggs  lengthwise  in  halves, 
take  out  the  yolks,  mash  fine  and  beat  into  them  with  a  fork  a 
mayonnaise  or  other  strong  salad  dressing.  Fill  and  round  up 
each  white  cup  with  the  mixture,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  or  cress 
leaves,  serving  with  cold  boiled  ham.  In  preparing  for  picnics  fill 
to  the  level  of  the  sides,  join  the  halves  together,  and  wrap  in 
waxed  paper. 


RECENT  investigation  is  said  to  prove  that  the  value  of  fish, 
as  a  brain  food,  has  been  greatly  exaggerated ;  however,  as 
fish  contains  little  fat,  a  large  quantity  of  nitrogenous  matter,  and 
is  easily  digested  it  should  frequently  come  to  the  table.  The 
abundance  and  cheapness  of  fish,  also  make  it  desirable.  One  of 
the  most  common  objections  to  a  fish  dinner  is  that  it  is  not  as  at- 
tractive as  a  meat  one,  but  this  may  be  obviated  by  care  in  cooking 
the  fish  whole,  and  by  taste  in  garnishing.  There  are  many  deli- 
cate ways  of  serving  fish  which,  with  the  peculiar  kinds  of  vegeta- 
bles and  sauces  that  accompany  them,  tempt  the  most  fastidious 
appetite. 

Fish  may  be  divided  into  two  classes  as  follows  :  Salt  and  fresh 
water  fish ;  of  which  are  red-blooded  and  white  fish,  rock  and  shell 
fish.  These  kinds  may  be  procured  fresh,  dry  salted,  pickled  or 
smoked. 

Salmon,  mackerel,  and  blue  fish,  are  oily  and  rich,  and  may  be 
boiled  without  losing  their  nutritive  qualities  to  the  same  degree  as 
dryer  leaner  fish.  Some  parts  of  halibut,  as  the  fins,  are  very  rank 
and  oily,  and  are  improved  by  boiling  in  more  than  one  water. 
Fish  should  never  be  used  unless  it  is  perfectly  fresh,  as  some  kinds 
are  poisonous  when  even  slightly  decayed.  To  ascertain  if  a  fish 
is  fresh,  press  on  it  with  the  finger.  If  the  flesh  is  firm,  hard,  and 
elastic,  it  is  good ;  but  if  the  eyes  are  dull,  and  sunken,  and  the 
gills  pale,  it  is  unfit  for  food. 

The  flesh  of  fish  will  often  become  soft,  even  when  fresh,  by 
keeping  it  in  water  or  on  ice.  This  should  never  be  done  unless 
the  fish  is  frozen ;  then  it  is  necessary  to  thaw  it  in  cold  water. 
To  keep  fish  cool  and  firm  after  cleaning,  dry  well,  rub  with  salt, 
and  lay  on  an  open  wooden  rack,  such  as  can  be  made  at  home, 
and  place  in  a  box  or  pan  over  ice,  but  not  touching  it  j  cover  with 

119 


120  PISH. 

a  box  or  pan  to  keep  in  the  coolness.  Do  not  put  fish  into  the  re- 
frigerator as  it  will  taint  the  other  food,  especially  milk,  cream, 
and  butter.  Fish  out  of  season  will  not  be  good.  It  is  better  to 
use  something  else. 

Of  course  it  is  impossible  to  name  all  the  excellent  varieties,  as 
they  differ  with  the  locality.  In  the  South  is  the  shad,  the  sheep's- 
head,  the  golden  mullet  and  the  Spanish  mackerel ;  in  the  North 
the  luscious  brook  trout,  and  the  wonderful  and  choice  tribes  that 
people  the  inland  lakes.  Among  the  best  of  the  fresh-water  fish,  sold 
generally  in  the  markets  of  the  interior,  are  the  Lake  Superior  trout 
and  white  fish,  and,  coming  from  cold  waters,  the}^  keep  best  of  all 
fresh-water  fish  ;  the  latter  is  the  best,  most  delicate,  and  has  fewer 
bones,  greatly  resembling  shad.  The  wall-eyed  pike,  bass  and 
pickerel  of  the  inland  lakes  are  also  excellent  fish,  and  are  shipped, 
packed  in  ice,  reaching  market  as  fresh  as  when  caught,  and  are 
sold  at  moderate  prices.  Both  eastern  and  California  salmon  are 
shipped  in  the  same  way,  and  sold  fresh  in  all  cities,  with  fresh  cod 
and  other  choice  varieties  fi'om  the  Atlantic  coast,  but  the  long 
distance  they  must  be  transported  makes  the  price  high.  The  cat- 
fish is  the  staple  Mississippi  River  fish,  and  is  cooked  in  various 
ways. 

Eels  must  be  dressed  as  soon  as  possible,  or  lose  their  sweetness  ; 
cut  off  the  head,  skin  them,  cut  them  open,  and  scrape  them  free 
from  every  string.  They  are  good  except  in  the  hottest  summer 
months,  the  fat  ones  being  best.  A  fine  codfish  is  thick  at  the 
back  of  the  neck,  and  is  best  in  cold  weather.  In  sturgeon,  the 
fish  should  be  white,  the  veins  blue,  the  grain  even  and  the  skin 
tender.  Sturgeon  is  often  put  up  and  sold  for  smoked  halibut. 
The  skin  of  halibut  should  be  white ;  if  dark  it  is  more  likely  to 
be  sturgeon.  Smoked  salmon  should  be  fii-m  and  dry.  Smoked 
white  fish  and  trout  are  very  nice,  the  former  being  a  favorite  in 
whatever  way  dressed.  Select  good,  firm,  whole  fish.  White 
fish  is  very  nice  broiled.     Each  of  the  above  is  better  than  herring. 

Fish  should  be  dressed  as  quickly  as  possible  in  strong  salt  and 
water,  and,  to  avoid  the  necessity  of  using  much  water  about  them, 
wash  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salted  water.  Wipe  dry,  and  let  lie  in 
the  cooler  two  hours,  if  possible. 


FISH.  121 

To  clean  a  fish,  remove  the  scales  by  scraping  with  a  sharp 
knife,  or  common  iron  card,  from  the  tail  to  the  head.  Lay  it  on 
a  smooth  board,  and  scrape  slowly,  so  as  not  to  scatter  the  scales. 
Rinse  the  scraper  often  in  a  pan  of  water.  If  the  fish  is  to  be 
served  whole  do  not  remove  the  head  and  tail.  Split  it  open  from 
the  gills  half  way  down  the  body,  and  remove  the  entrails,  scrape, 
and  clean  with  a  cloth.  Be  sure  to  remove  all  the  blood  near  the 
back  bone,  and  the  sound.  If  the  fish  needs  to  be  skinned,  as  do 
suckers,  and  some  others,  cut  a  thin,  narrow  strip  down  the  back, 
removing  the  dorsal  fin ;  cut  around  the  neck,  insert  the  knife,  and, 
by  aid  of  thumb  and  fingers,  strip  the  skin  down  toward  the  tail. 
If  it  needs  to  be  boned  after  cleaning  and  skinning,  begin  at  the 
tail,  and  run  the  knife  up  the  backbone,  scraping  it  clear  of  flesh, 
and  be  careful  not  to  break  the  flakes.  When  both  sides  have 
been  scraped  clean,  slip  the  knife  under  the  large  bone  and  remove 
carefully ;  the  small  bones  must  be  pulled  out  separately,  leaving 
the  flesh  in  shape  on  the  board.  Fish  with  many  bones,  as  pick- 
erel, shad,  herring,  etc. ,  are  not  boned. 

A  boned  fish  may  be  rolled  up  compactly  from  tail  to  head,  and 
boiled,  steamed,  or  baked.  Large  fish  may  be  cut  crosswise  into 
steak.  Salt  fish  should  be  soaked,  at  least  over  night,  in  clean 
soft  water,  skin  side  up ;  and  most  salt  and  pickled  fish  are  im- 
proved by  changing  water,  and  soaking  six  hours  longer.  Wash 
all  salt  fish  thoroughly  in  warm  water  before  soaking. 

All  fish  for  boiling  should  be  wrapped  in  a  cloth  kept  for  the 
purpose,  and  plunged  into  boiling  water,  except  salmon,  which 
should  be  put  into  lukewarm  water  to  preserve  the  color,  and 
mackerel  and  bluefish,  which  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water. 
Fish  weighing  two  pounds  should  be  cooked  gently  about  twenty 
minutes  after  the  water  actually  boils,  and  six  minutes  for  each  ad- 
ditional pound.  Do  not  boil  fish  rapidly,  as  it  breaks  the  flakes 
before  the  inside  is  done.  Many  prefer  to  steam  fish,  because 
steaming  takes  less  from  their  nutritive  qualities,  but  it  requires 
more  time.  The  juices  of  a  fish  are  alkaline,  therefore  lemon, 
vinegar,  and  many  of  the  sauces  are  excellent  neutralizing  agencies, 
and  are  often  added  in  boiling.  If  one  has  not  a  fish  kettle,  a 
round  of  tin,  pierced  with  holes  like  a  colander  to  fit  a  kettle,  may 


122 


FISH, 


be  used.  Skewer  and  tie  the  fish  into  the  required  shape.  The 
letter  S  is  liked,  but  the  circle  is  more  easily  made  by  inserting 
the  tail  in  the  mouth.  Lay  on  the  round  of  tin,  and  tie  all  to- 
gether in  a  square  of  cheese  cloth,  or  white  netting,  keeping  the 
knot  on  top.  Put  into  the  kettle  and  boil  the  required  time.  A 
strong  fork  or  hook  under  the  knot  will  lift  it  out  without  trouble, 
and  the  fish  may  be  slipped  on  the  platter  without  breaking. 

To  bake  fish,  one  should  have  a  similar  tin  to  fit  the  baking  pan. 
Put  in  something  to  hold  it  up  from  the  bottom  half  an  inch,  and 
cover  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork ;  fill  the  fish  with  a  dressing 
made  as  for  goose,  only  a  little  drier,  and  sew  up.  Skewer  and 
tie  into  shape,  and  lay  it  on  the  pork,  place  slices  of  pork  on  the 
fish  and  fasten  from  slipping  with  small  wooden  pins.  Bake  care- 
fully basting  with  melted  butter,  if  very  dry.  When  lifted,  re- 
move all  the  pork,  put  on  the  platter,  and  dot  with  several  small 
lumps  of  butter.  Salmon  or  lake  trout,  shad,  white  fish,  and 
pickerel  are  excellent  baked.  Oysters  or  white  onions  may  be 
used  in  the  dressing.  Slices  of  lemon  may  be  laid  over  the  fish 
when  it  comes  to  the  table. 

To  broil  fish,  a  good  hard  coal  fire,  or  the  coals  of  hard  wood  in 
a  mass  is  needed,  that  the  fish  may  not  be  smoked.  One  can  cut 
off  the  head  and  tail  of  small  fish  and  broil  whole.  Split  in  halves  a 
fish  weighing  one  pound  or  less ;  cut  larger  fish  in  half,  and 
divide  crosswise  to  suit  the  broiler.  Oily  fish  need  pepper  and 
salt,  but  dry  ones,  like  white  fish,  need  to  be  rubbed  in  olive  oil  or 
butter  before  broiling.  Grease  well  a  double  wire  broiler  with 
pork  fat,  put  in  the  fish,  hold  close  to  the  coals,  and  turn  often. 
The  flesh  side  should  be  cooked  brown.  Small  fish  need  to  cook 
five  to  ten  minutes,  and  larger  fish  fifteen  to  twenty.  When  the 
fish  is  very  thick,  to  brown  nicely,  lay  the  broiler  on  a  dripping 
pan  and  put  into  the  oven  till  cooked  through.  The  flesh  will 
easily  separate  from  the  bones  when  it  is  done.  Herrings  are 
sometimes  wrapped  in  buttered  brown  paper  and  broiled  in  a  pan 
in  a  hot  oven  ;  care  must  be  taken  that  both  pan  and  oven  are 
very  hot.  Serve  broiled  fish  with  butter  and  pepper,  and  accom- 
pany with  salad  dressing  and  sharp  pickles. 

Oily  fish  should  never  be  fried.     Dry  fresh  fish  may  be  rolled  \n 


FISH.  123 

wheat  or  com  flour,  and  fried  quickly  in  plenty  of  hot  lard.  Tal^ 
out  on  a  large  wire  receiver,  and  drain  carefully  over  the  pan ; 
add  pepper  and  butter  when  it  comes  to  the  table.  Frying  in  a  bit 
of  butter  or  lard  is  neither  broiling  nor  frying,  but  partakes  of  the 
nature  of  both.  Cook  until  the  under  side  is  brown  before  turning, 
or  it  will  break.  Few  fish  will  fry  in  less  than  three  minutes,  and 
a  thick  fish  requires  considerably  more  time.  Have  fish  thoroughly 
dry  that  the  flour  in  which  it  is  rolled  may  not  become  pasty. 

Stewed  tomatoes  or  some  acid  sauce  should  be  served  with  fried 
fish.  Fish  to  be  steamed  should  be  prepared  and  served  as  if  for 
boiling.  Salt  fish  may  be  freshened,  and  broiled  or  toasted,  and 
served  with  butter  gravy,  or  simply  as  a  relish,  buttered  and  pep- 
pered. Smoked  fish  may  be  broiled  or  baked  in  buttered  papers. 
Pickled  fish  may  be  freshened  and  boiled,  toasted  or  baked. 
Mackerel  and  herring  should  be  laid  lengthwise  of  the  platter, 
heads  and  tails  alternating.  Always  garnish  the  platter,  if  it  be 
with  nothing  more  than  a  wreath  of  wild  grape  vine  in  summer,  or 
leaves  from  cabbage  sprouts  in  winter,  made  bright  with  bits  of 
beet  pickles,  or  slices  of  lemon.  Fish  is  spoiled  by  waiting,  there- 
fore remove  all  skewers  and  twine  quickly  and  send  to  the  table  on 
hot  dishes.  One  can  easily  select  No.  1  salt  mackerel,  as  it  is 
marked  by  the  dresser,  at  the  time  of  putting  up,  with  one  slit 
with  a  knife  at  the  right  of  the  backbone  inside.  No.  2  has  two 
slits,  and  if  not  marked  at  all  they  are  of  an  inferior  grade. 

FISH    IN    SEASON. 

Trout,  white  fish,  pickerel,  crabs,  perch,  etc. ,  are  eaten  the  year 
round. 

Winter:  Halibut,  cod, haddock,  flounders,  white  fish,  smelts. 

September  to  May :  Oysters,  clams. 

May  to  September  :  Salmon. 

November  to  August :  Shad,  brook  trout,  lake  trout. 

April  to  October :  Mackerel,  eels,  lobsters. 

June  to  October :  Blue  fish. 


FISH. 

CLAMS. 

Fresh  clams  are  heavy  and  their  shells  close  tightly.  To  pre- 
pare clams  for  boiling  place  a  peck  of  fresh  clams  in  a  bushel 
basket,  sift  well  among  them  a  pint  of  yellow  corn  meal,  and  cover 
the  basket  for  the  night.  The  next  day  dash  over  them  a  pail  of 
clear  cold  water,  give  them  another  pint  of  meal  and  let  stand  an- 
other day.  They  will  then  be  in  fine  condition  for  boiling,  the 
feeding  having  very  much  improved  them.  Now  place  2  quarts 
of  boiling  water  in  a  kettle,  wash  the  clams  well  and  pour  them 
into  it.  Let  boil  smartly  until  the  shells  are  well  open  ;  remove  to 
a  large  pan,  and  when  cool  enough,  take  off  half  the  shell  and 
serve  on  the  other  half,  with  a  little  salt.  This  boiling  is  neces- 
sary in  preparing  clams  for  cooking  in  any  way.  A  pair  of  sharp 
scissors  are  indispensable  in  removing  the  black  heads,  as  should 
always  be  done  in  preparing  them  for  stews,  soups,  scallops  and 
chowders. 

SEASIDE  CL^M  BAKE. 

Have  a  level  floor  of  stones  for  an  oven,  and  pile  on  it  seaweed 
and  burn,  adding  as  it  burns  out,  until  the  stones  will  crackle  when 
water  is  sprinkled  upon  them.  Sweep  off  the  ashes,  and  spread 
on  a  thin  layer  of  seaweed.  Have  the  clams  well  rinsed  in  salt 
water.  Pile  them  on  the  hot  stones,  making  them  low  in  the  center, 
and  a  ridge  around,  sloping  off  to  the  edges  of  the  rock.  Lay 
into  the  depression  thus  made  halves  of  chicken,  well  di'essed,  ears 
of  green  corn,  potatoes,  which  have  been  thoroughly  cleaned  with 
seaweed  or  a  rough  cloth,  and  a  nice  bluefish  or  pickerel ;  in  fact, 
almost  any  young,  tender  meat,  fish,  or  vegetable,  is  delicious 
cooked  in  the  steam  of  the  clams.  Cover  the  whole  thickly  with 
seaweed,  and  over  this  throw  a  great  piece  of  canvas  to  keep  in 
the  steam.  When  the  shells  of  the  clams  in  the  ridge  are  thor- 
oughly open,  which  will  be  in  about  45  minutes,  the  whole  will  be 
done.  Have  ready  melted  butter,  salt,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  brown 
bread,  to  serve  with  this  bake.     One  never  gets  to  the  dessert. 


THE  value  of  fruits  as  food  is  far  from  being  understood. 
They  are  more  or  less  abundant  in  every  part  of  the  world, 
and  nourish  and  refresh  those  who  are  wise  enough  to  include  them 
among  the  necessaries  of  life. 

Nature  has  provided  under  a  variety  of  forms  and  coverings  the 
sweets  and  acids,  flavors  and  oils,  essential  to  the  sustenance  of 
every  portion  of  the  body.  First  in  importance  and  universality 
is  the  apple,  and  the  grape  follows;  these  have  been  called  the 
king  and  queen  of  fruits.  It  has  been  quaintly  phrased  that  ' '  in 
that  case  the  berries  might  be  members  of  the  royal  family, 
peaches,  pears,  and  plums,  members  of  the  cabinet,  and  tropical 
fruits,  the  foreign  ministers. "  Fruits  are  first  cousins  to  grains, 
and  science  has  demonstrated  that  together  they  constitute  a  food 
which  produces  a  well-developed,  strong-limbed  and  clear-brained 
people. 

The  athletes  of  ancient  Greece  were  trained  entirely  on  a  vege- 
table diet.  The  boatmen  of  Constantinople,  who  live  on  bread, 
cherries,  figs,  dates,  and  other  fruits,  have  a  wonderful  muscular 
development.  The  children  of  the  desert  exist  for  a  long  time 
upon  a  handful  of  dates  a  day,  and  travelers  speak  of  raisins  and 
parched  corn  as  common  fare. 

If  this  were  a  medical  article  manj^  authorities  might  be  cited 
whose  study  and  experience  prove  ' '  that  there  is  scarcely  a  dis- 
ease to  which  the  human  family  is  now  heir,  but  the  sufferings 
therefrom  would  be  greatly  relieved  or  entirely  prevented  by  the 
use  of  fruits  which  are  now  so  generally  forbidden"  Or  neglected. 
Particularly  do  the  nervous  American  people  need  all  that  nature 
can  give  in  this  line  to  supply  the  waste  of  the  S3'stem,  and  rein- 
force the  vitalitj'. 

During  the  last  ten  years  there  has  been  a  most  gratifying  in- 
crease in  the  use  of  fruit,  and  the  supply  has  multiplied  and  im- 

125 


126  FRUIT. 

proved  to  meet  the  demand.  Fruits  are  to  be  highly  prized, 
whether  fresh  or  dried,  cooked  or  raw,  as  food  or  in  beverages,  and 
ought  to  constitute  a  large  part  of  the  daily  fare.  Wives  and 
mothers  are  learning  that  a  farinaceous  and  fruit  diet  is  not  only 
desirable  for  the  children,  but  is  one  of  nature's  agencies  to  pro- 
vide a  sound  body  and  a  sound  mind,  and  aid  in  the  formation  of 
temperate  desires  and  habits. 

Taste,  and  often  genius  is  shown  in  the  arrangement  of  fruit  for 
the  table.  All  varieties  are  apprDpriate  breakfast  dishes,  and  the 
season  determines  largely  what  can  be  used.  Fruits  should  be 
carefully  selected.  Melons  should  be  kept  on  ice,  so  as  to  be 
thoroughly  chilled  when  served.  Nutmeg  melons  should  be  cut  in 
the  grooves,  and  have  the  seeds  removed  before  serving.  Water- 
melons should  either  be  cut  across  the  middle  and  served  in  the 
rind  in  sections,  or  have  the  heart  removed  and  brought  in  on 
the  plates.  Apples  should  be  perfectly  ripe  and  pared  before  eat- 
ing. From  among  the  many  varieties  some  can  be  found  suited  to 
almost  every  month  of  the  year.  Sweet  apples  are  particularly 
nice  baked  and  served  with  sweet  cream.  ' '  Bananas  are  destined 
to  be  the  fruit  of  the  future,"  says  one  importer,  and  no  other  fruit 
possesses  such  a  large  amount  of  nutriment.  The  increase  of  the 
excellency,  and  the  cheapness  of  grapes,  as  well  as  their  abundance 
in  every  part  of  the  country,  put  them  within  reach  of  all.  The 
imported  varieties  flourish  luxuriantly  in  California,  while  the  fine- 
ness of  her  raisins  is  giving  her  the  precedence  over  the  foreign 
trade.  See  that  grapes  are  washed  and  drained  well  before  serv- 
ing. Oranges  are  to  the  southern  and  tropical  lands  what  the 
apple  is  to  the  temperate  zone,  but  the  facilities  of  transportation 
give  each  section  the  benefit  of  all.  Our  own  country  now  rivals 
foreign  ones  in  the  cultivation  of  oranges,  while  California  and 
Florida  vie  with  each  other  to  produce  the  finest  variety.  The 
sourer  oranges  of  the  market  come  from  Valencia.  The  simplest 
of  many  ways  to  eat  an  orange  is  to  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  and 
eat  the  juice  and  pulp  with  a  spoon.  Medical  experts  claim  that  a 
sour  orange  eaten  daily  before  breakfast  produces  usually  a  condi- 
tion of  almost  perfect  health.  Peaches  are  not  only  a  delicious 
fruit  for  food,  but  beautiful  for  table  decoration.     Apricots  and 


FRUIT.  127 

nectarines  increase  the  variety  with  a  delicate  though  peculiar 
flavor.  Pears  are  more  highly  prized  each  year,  and,  combined 
with  peaches,  plums,  and  grapes,  present  a  dish  delightful  to  the 
eye,  as  well  as  grateful  to  the  palate.  The  red  or  strawberry  pine- 
apple is  greatly  inferior  to  the  white  one,  though  suggesting  its  de- 
licious flavor.  The  sugar  loaf,  one  of  the  sweetest  and  best  pines, 
comes  from  Havana,  while  some  choice  varieties  are  produced  in 
Jamaica.  They  should  either  be  grated,  or  picked  with  a  fork 
from  the  hard  core,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar  a  little  time  before 
serving.  Buy  cocoanuts  cautiously  in  summer,  as  the  milk  is 
quickly  soured  by  the  heat.  Of  almonds  the  Princess  is  the  best 
variety  to  buy  in  the  shell ;  of  the  shelled,  the  Jordan  is  the  finest, 
though  the  Sicily  is  good.  For  cake  or  confectionery,  the  shelled 
are  most  economical. 

Many  small  fruits  are  used  as  long  as  the  season  allows.  The 
fresh  strawberry,  raspberry  and  blackberry  are  in  great  demand  on 
the  table ;  their  fine  flavor  is  lost  in  some  measure  by  cooking. 
The  white  currant  is  a  favorite  for  the  table,  and  the  red  more 
commonly  used  in  cooking.  Red  and  white  currants  mixed  form 
a  pleasing  dish.  If  berries  are  clean  do  not  wash,  but  pick  them 
over  carefully.  If  they  need  to  be  washed,  put  into  a  sieve  or 
colander  and  set  in  a  large  pan  of  water,  allowing  the  water  to  flow 
around  each  berry.     Drain  quickly,  and  avoid  mashing. 

CANNED  FRUIT. 

*<If  an^i;hing  is  worth  doing  at  all,  it  is  worth  doing  well," 
finds  a  good  illustration  here,  for  poor  work  means  either  spoiled 
or  injured  fruit.  Select  perfect  fruit,  just  ripe,  fresh  picked,  and 
cook  with  very  little  sugar.  Small  fruits  should  be  picked  early 
in  the  morning,  and  canned  immediately,  if  possible.  Use  a  silver 
knife  in  preparing  large  fruits,  and  drop  them  into  cold  water  to 
prevent  change  of  color.  All  fruit  should  be  carefully  picked 
over,  and  cooked  slowly  in  a  porcelain  or  granite-lined  kettle  with 
a  very  little  water  and  sugar.  The  sugar  can  be  omitted  without 
detriment  to  the  fruit.  It  must  boil  to  prevent  fermentation,  but 
not  rapidty,  or  it  will  lose  its  flavor  and  its  form. 

The  cans  should  be  of  glass,  free  from  flaws  and  blisters,  with  a 


128  FRUIT. 

tightly-fitting  porcelain-lined  cover.  The  rubbers  should  be  fitted, 
washed  in  warm,  not  hot  water,  and  if  any  are  hard  or  stretched, 
reject  them.  They  can  be  replaced  from  any  robber,  crockery  or 
ordinary  grocery  store  for  a  trifle.  Use  pint  jars  for  small  fam- 
ilies. See  that  the  jars  are  washed,  sweet,  and  the  covers  fitted  be- 
fore beginning  to  work. 

While  the  fruit  is  cooking,  thoroughly  scald  the  cans  and  have 
them  read}?-  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  When  ready  to  fill,  set  one  at  a 
time  on  a  hot  plate,  that  if  the  juice  is  spilled  it  may  be  saved.  It 
is  better  to  prepare  only  two  or  three  cans  of  fruit  at  once,  as  one 
is  apt  to  get  tired  and  not  do  the  work  well.  Attend  to  only  one 
can  at  a  time.  Fill  level  full,  let  settle  a  moment,  and  fill  up 
again.  Wipe  oflf  the  neck  of  the  jar,  put  on  the  rubber,  fill  up 
with  hot  syrup,  if  the  fruit  has  settled  more,  and  screw  on  the 
cover  as  tightly  as  possible,  holding  the  jar  with  a  damp  towel. 
One  object  of  excluding  the  air  is  to  keep  out  germs  which  would 
cause  the  fruit  to  spoil.  Boiling  kills  these  and  that  is  the  reason 
for  sealing  at  the  boiling  point.  This  is  the  whole  secret  of  per- 
fect canning.  As  the  fruit  cools,  it  will  shrink  and  leave  a 
vacuum. 

If  there  is  plenty  of  time,  can  fruit  in  the  following  manner  : 
Fill  the  jars  with  the  fresh  fruit,  put  on  the  covers  loosely,  and  set 
upon  a  rack,  in  a  large  boiler  or  kettle  of  lukewarm  water.  Let 
the  water  come  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the  cans  which 
must  not  touch  each  other.  Cover  the  cans  with  a  thick,  folded 
cloth,  and  steam  until  the  fruit  is  soft.  A  syrup  made  of  equal 
parts  of  sugar  and  water  can  be  poured  into  each  jar,  filling  it  two- 
thirds  full,  or  sugar  can  be  sprinkled  over  the  berries  before  put- 
ting into  the  jars,  and  then  steam.  If  sugar  is  not  used,  fill  each 
can  full  from  one  kept  hot  for  that  purpose,  take  out  from  the 
boiler  with  a  cloth,  set  on  the  table,  out  of  a  draft,  and  screw  on 
the  top  taken  from  a  pan  of  hot  water,  first  putting  on  the  rubber 
rings.  Everything  about  the  fruit  must  be  kept  hot.  Before 
screwing  on  the  top,  slip  a  silver  spoon  into  the  jar  to  allow  the  air 
bubbles  to  escape,  then  screw  it  on  as  firmly  as  possible,  and  in- 
vert the  can  on  a  table  in  a  cool  place.  Leakage  will  then  be 
known  immediately.     When  the  cans  are  cool,  give  another  screw 


FRUIT. 


129 


to  the  cover.  Use  labels,  and  apply  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Set  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  as  light  and  warmth,  as  well  as 
moisture,  causes  fermentation.  If  large  mouthed  bottles  must  be 
used  in  canning,  steam  the  corks,  pare  them  to  fit  closely,  and 
drive  them  in  with  a  mallet.  Seal  with  plaster  of  Paris,  or  a  wax 
made  as  follows :  One  pound  resin,  three  ounces  beeswax,  one  and 
one-half  ounces  tallow.  Put  it  on  the  corks  with  a  brush  at  first, 
and  while  cooling  dip  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  into  the  melted  wax. 
To  can  successfully,  have  close-fitting  covers  for  the  cans,  soft, 
firm  rubber  rings,  keep  everything  hot,  fill  the  cans  full,  and  seal 
immediately.  Use  wooden  or  silver  spoons,  porcelain  ladles,  sil- 
ver forks,  clean,  soft  towels,  and  take  plenty  of  time,  care  and 
patience. 

LENGTH  OF  TIME  REQUIRED  FOR  COOKING  FRUIT. 

Blueberries  and  cherries 5  min. 

Currants,  blackberries,  raspberries 6  to  8  " 

Gooseberries  and  halved  peaches 10  '* 

Strawberries 15  " 

Whole  peaches 20  " 

Halved  pears  and  quinces 20  " 

Sliced  pineapple 20  " 

Crab  apples  and  sliced  pears 30  " 

DR.    SUSANNA  DODD's  TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS. 
Fruit.  Water.  Sugar. 

Strawberries 5  quarts 1  quart %  cup. 

Red  currants 5  " 

Red  raspberries 5  " 

Black  raspberries 5  " 

Raspberries  and  currants. . .  5  " 

Blackberries 5  " 

Gooseberries 6  " 

"  for  pies 6  " 

May  cherries 5  " 

Black  Morello  cherries 5  " 

Seeded  Morello,  for  pies 5  " 

Grapes 6  " 

Cranberries 2  " 

Peaches 6  " 

Pears 7  " 

Damson  plums 6  " 

Green  or  blue  gage 6  " 


3  quarts 1 

3      "       K 

5  pints % 

5     "     H 

3     "     % 

2  quarts 2 

3  pints 2 

3  quarts X 

2  "       1 

3  "       IH 

2  "       No  sugar. 

3  pints 1  cup, 

1  quart No  sugar. 

1  H  <4  (( 

5  pints 2  cups. 

3     "     1  cup. 


130  FKUTT. 

CANNED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  2  cups  water  to  one-half  cup  sugar,  and  pre- 
pare tart  apples — mellow  ones  that  are  not  likely  to  keep  long  may 
be  used.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  boiling  syrup,  let  cook  slowly  till 
done,  and  can.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking  if  it  is  desired  to  keep 
the  fruit  whole.  Or,  omit  the  sugar  when  canning,  and  heat  and 
add  sugar  before  using. 

CANNED  APPLES  AND  QUIPTCES. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  apples  and  quinces.  Cook  quinces 
till  tender  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them,  take  out  the  quinces 
and  cook  the  apples  in  the  same  water.  Put  in  jars  in  alternate 
layers  and  cover  with  a  syrup,  allowing  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to 
1  pound  of  fruit,  and  water  to  dissolve  it.  Let  stand  12  hours, 
heat  thoroughly  and  seal  in  cans. 

CANNED  BERRIES. 

Select  berries  whose  skins  have  not  been  broken,  or  the  juice 
will  darken  the  syrup ;  fill  cans  compactly,  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  with  a  cloth  beneath  them,  over  an  even  heat;  when  suf- 
ficiently heated,  pour  over  the  hemes  a  syrup  of  white  sugar. 
The  richer  the  syrup  is  the  better  for  keeping,  though  not  for 
preserving  the  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Cover  the  cans  closely  to  re- 
tain heat  on  the  top  berries.  To  insure  full  cans  when  cold,  have 
extra  berries  heated  in  like  manner  to  supply  shrinkage.  If  the 
fruit  swims,  pour  off  surplus  syrup,  fill  with  hot  fruit,  and  seal  up 
as  soon  as  the  fruit  at  the  top  is  thoroughly  scalded. 

PLAIN  CANNED  BERRIES. 

Pick  out  stems  or  hulls,  if  gathered  carefully  the  berries  will 
not  need  washing,  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  on  the  stove,  adding  a 
small  cup  of  water  to  prevent  burning  at  first.  Skim  well,  add 
sugar  to  taste,  if  for  pies  it  may  be  omitted,  let  boil  5  minutes,  fill 
glass  or  stone  cans,  and  seal  with  putty  or  plaster  of  Paris,  unless 
self  sealers  are  used.  This  rule  applies  to  raspberries,  blackber- 
ries, currants,  gooseberries,  or  any  of  the  small  berries. 

CANNED  BLACKBERRIES. 

To  each  quart  of  berries  allow  1  pint  sugar,  sprinkle  the  sugar 
over  the  berries  and  set  in  a  warm  place  till  the  juice  settles  suf- 


FRUIT.  131 

ficiently  ;  boil  15  minutes,  put  into  cans  and  seal  at  once.     Black 
raspberries  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner. 

CANNED  BLUEBERRIES. 

Look  the  berries  over  carefully,  wash  them,  and  for  every  quart 
can,  allow  1  cup  sugar,  add  water  enough  to  prevent  burning,  and 
cook  10  minutes.  Can  the  same  as  other  fruit.  An  ordinary 
crate  holds  sixteen  quarts  and  will  can  about  ten  quarts. 

CANNED  CHERRIES— 1. 

Wash  and  stone  the  cherries,  straining  the  juice  and  adding  it  to 
the  fruit.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  allowing  1  cup  sugar  to  each 
quart.  Let  stand  till  the  juice  settles,  cook  slowly  10  minutes, 
pour  into  cans  and  seal.  The  flavor  of  cherries  is  improved  by 
boiling  a  tablespoonful  of  the  pits  tied  in  a  muslin  bag,  with  each 
can  of  fi'uit.     Remove  before  sealing. 

CANNED  CHERRIES 2. 

K  pint  sugar,  1  cup  water. 

2  pounds  pitted  cherries. 

Sour  cherries  are  best  for  canning,  but  white  ones  are  also  nice 
as  they  retain  their  color  after  cooking.  They  require  less  sugar. 
Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  in  the  proportions  given,  skim, 
add  the  fruit,  and  boil  5  minutes  ;  pour  into  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

CANNED  CITRON. 

1  pound  fruit,  1  lemon,  sliced, 

^  pound  sugar,  Ginger  to  flavor. 

Pare  the  citron,  cut  it  in  little  blocks  and  steam  till  tender. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  sufficient  to  flU  the  cans ; 
let  it  boil  10  minutes,  add  the  fruit,  ginger  and  lemon,  boil  3  min- 
utes, pour  into  cans  and  seal. 

CANNED  CURRANTS. 

Look  the  currants  over  carefully^  removing  stems ;  weigh,  and 
heat  slowly  in  a  covered  kettle  ;  stew  gently  20  or  30  minutes,  and 
add  sugar,  allowing  1  pound  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Shake  the 
kettle  occasionally  to  mix  the  fruit  and  sugar;  do  not  boil,  but 
keep  as  hot  as  possible  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  seal  at  once. 
White  currants  are  excellent  canned  in  this  manner. 


132 


FRurr. 


CANNED  ELDERBERRIES — 1. 
16  pounds  elderberries,  7  pounds  sugar, 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins,  1  pint  vinegar. 
Cook  thoroughly  and  seal  in  cans  or  jars. 

CANNED  ELDERBERRIES 2. 

1  gallon  elderberries,  1  quart  seeded  grapes, 

1  quart  N.  O,  molasses. 

Boil  half  an  hour  and  seal.     This  will  also  keep  well  in  jars. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Cook  the  berries  in  water  until  white,  but  not  enough  to  break 
them ;  put  into  cans  with  as  little  w^ater  as  possible,  fill  up  the  can 
with  boiling  water  and  seal ;  when  opened  pour  off  the  water  and 
cook  like  fresh  berries. 

CANNED  GRAPES 1. 

Look  over  the  grapes  carefully,  wash  and  weigh  them,  using  one- 
half  pound  sugar  to  1  pound  fruit.  Prepare  the  grapes  by  pop- 
ping the  pulps  from  the  skins  as  directed  in  recipe  for  preserving 
grapes ;  cook  the  pulp  till  the  seeds  are  loosened,  strain  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  skins  and  sugar  to  the  juice,  cook  15  minutes,  pour 
into  cans  and  seal  at  once. 

CANNED  GRAPES — 2. 

Pick  over  the  grapes  carefully,  wash  in  hot  water,  and  fill  the 
cans  as  solidly  as  possible ;  set  on  a  cloth  in  a  kettle  of  cool  water 
and  heat.  When  the  water  boils,  add  a  syrup  made  of  equal 
measures  of  sugar  and  water,  filling  the  cans  to  overflowing,  and 
seal.     Take  the  cans  from  the  water,  cool,  and  tighten  the  covers. 

CANNED  FRUIT  JUICES. 

Press  the  juice  from  fresh,  ripe  fruit,  strain  through  a  flannel 
cloth,  and  to  each  pint  add  1  cup  granulated  sugar ;  heat  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  seal  in  small  fruit  cans  or  in  bottles.  In  the 
latter  use  only  new  corks.  Press  them  in  firmly  and  cover  well 
with  plaster  of  Paris  to  exclude  the  air.  Fruit  juices  areCused  in 
cakes,  puddings,  and  sauces. 

CANNED  PEACHES — 1. 

3  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar, 

1  peck  clingstone  peaches. 
Four  boiling  water  over  the  peaches  to  remove  the  fuzz ;  make 


FRUIT.  133 

a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar,  using  a  little  water  if  required 
to  cover  the  peaches  ;  cook  soft,  and  can  as  usual. 

CANNED  PEACHES 2. 

Pare,  halve  and  stone ;  make  a  syrup  of  1  pint  granulated  sugar 
to  1  quart  water,  cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  when  it  boils, 
drop  in  enough  fruit  for  one  can;  watch  closely,  testing  with  a 
silver  fork,  remove  very  gently  when  the  peaches  are  tender,  and 
place  in  the  can  previously  heated  according  to  instructions. 
When  filled,  pour  in  the  hot  sjTup,  cover,  and  seal  at  once;  add 
the  fruit  to  the  hot  syrup,  and  repeat  the  operation.  If  there  are 
more  peaches  than  are  needed,  place  them  in  another  can  and  keep 
hot  until  more  are  ready,  and  so  on  until  all  are  canned.  Skim 
the  syrup  before  adding  peaches,  making  only  enough  at  one  time 
for  two  cans. 

CANNED  PEACHES 3. 

Make  a  sweet  syrup  and  keep  it  hot  in  a  porcelain  kettle  on  the 
stove.  Have  plenty  of  hot  water  in  another  one.  Pare,  halve 
and  drop  the  peaches  into  the  boiling  water;  let  them  remain 
until  a  silver  fork  will  pierce  them,  then  lift  out  with  a  wire  spoon, 
fill  a  can,  pour  in  all  the  boiling  syrup  it  will  hold,  and  seal  imme- 
diately. Continue  in  this  way,  preparing  and  sealing  only  one  can 
at  a  time;  boil  down  the  water  with  the  syrup,  if  any  is  left;  if 
not,  add  more  sugar,  and  quite  a  nice  marmalade  will  result. 

CANNED  PEACHES 4. 

Pare  and  halve  the  peaches,  removing  the  pits,  and  lay  them  in 
cold  water.  Make  a  syrup,  using  1  pound  sugar  to  3  pints  hot 
water.  Fill  the  jars  with  the  cold  peaches,  sprinkling  each  layer 
well  with  sugar ;  fill  the  jars  with  the  hot  syrup,  and  seal  imme- 
diately. 

CANNED  PEACHES  STEAMED. 

To  peel,  place  in  a  wire  basket,  dip  into  boiling  water  for  a  mo- 
ment, then  into  cold  water,  and  strip  off  the  skin ;  this  saves  both 
fruit  and  labor.  The  fruit  must  not  be  too  green  or  it  will  not 
peel,  nor  too  ripe  or  it  will  be  softened  by  the  hot  water.  Place  a 
cloth  in  the  bottom  of  a  steamer,  half  fill  with  the  peaches  from 
which  the  pits  have  been  removed,  cover  tightly,  set  over  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  and  steam  till  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a 


134  FRUIT. 

silver  fork.  Prepare  a  syrup  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  drop  the 
peaches  gently  into  the  boiling  syrup  for  a  moment,  remove  to  the 
cans,  fill  with  the  syrup,  and  seal  at  once.  With  the  exception  of 
the  mode  of  peeling,  this  recipe  applies  equally  well  to  pears. 

CANNED  PEARS. 

Prepare  and  can  as  in  recipe  for  canning  peaches  No.  2,  except 
that  they  require  longer  cooking.  When  done  they  are  easily 
pierced  with  a  silver  fork.     A  sliced  lemon  may  be  added. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 

Pare,  cut  out  the  eyes,  and  pick  the  pulp  from  the  core  of  ripe 
pineapples ;  make  a  syrup,  using  2^  pounds  sugar  to  3  pints  water ; 
boil  5  minutes,  skim,  add  fruit,  let  boil  up  well,  pour  into  hot  cans 
and  seal. 

CANNED  PLUMS. 

2  pounds  plums,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  pint  water. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  wash  the  plums  and  put 

them  into  the  syrup  whole,  boil  8  minutes,  put  into  cans  and  seal 

at  once.     If  pricked  with  a  fork  before  placing  in  syrup  they  are 

less  apt  to  burst.     Cherries  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner. 

Twelve  pounds  of  damsons  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  will  fill  six 

quart  cans,  and  the  same  rule  holds  good  for  pears  and  peaches. 

CANNED  GREEN  GAGE  PLUMS. 

Look  the  fruit  over  carefully  and  wash  it ;  fill  the  cans  and  place 
in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  having  the  water  come  up  as  far  as  pos- 
sible around  the  cans  and  not  boil  over  into  the  fruit.  Cook  till 
the  fruit  is  tender — H  or  2  hours.  Take  out  the  cans  and  pour 
the  juice  that  has  accumulated  on  the  plums  into  a  preserving  ket- 
tle, and  add  sufficient  sugar  to  make  a  rich  S3Tup ;  let  boil  up  well, 
fill  the  cans,  return  to  the  boiler,  and  let  stand  in  the  boiling  water 
15  minutes  longer ;  screw  on  the  tops,  and  remove  from  the  water. 
Each  can  must  be  full  before  sealing. 

TO  KEEP  PLUMS. 

Select  perfect  plums,  which  are  not  too  ripe,  and  fill  a  larg^* 
crock,  putting  them  in  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  skins. 
Then  cover  them  with  water,  which  must  be  poured  on  boiling  hot, 
and  turn  over  them  a  plate  which  will  fit  into  the  crock  easily^  al- 


FRUIT.  135 

lowing  none  of  the  plums  to  rise  above  it.  The  water  should  be 
level  with  the  top.  Keep  the  crock  in  the  cellar,  and  cover  it  with 
a  board.  A  scum  will  rise  on  the  plums  during  the  winter,  which 
helps  to  keep  them.  When  wanted  for  use,  scald  them,  pour  off 
the  water,  add  more,  and  stew  until  tender.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

CANNED    RASPBERRIES 1. 

To  preserve  the  shape  and  color  of  red  raspberries,  put  them 
carefully  into  the  cans,  sprinkling  in  sugar  if  desired.  Fill  the 
cans,  shaking  the  berries  down  gently,  and  proceed  as  directed  in 
recipe  for  Canned  Berries,  except  that  no  syrup  will  be  required. 
Put  the  covers  on  loosely  to  retain  the  heat,  and  cook  till  the  fruit 
boils,  filling  the  cans  as  it  settles  with  extra  berries  heated  in  the 
same  manner.  Screw  the  covers  down  tight  and  take  the  cans 
from  the  water,  being  careful  to  tighten  the  covers  as  they  cool. 

CANNED    RASPBERRIES 2. 

Have  ready  a  pan  of  ice-cold  water.  Look  over  the  berries,  and 
throw  1  quart  at  a  time  into  the  water.  With  a  wire  skimmer, 
dip  them  carefully  into  a  granite-lined  kettle.  For  every  3  quarts 
allow  1  large  cup  sugar.  Let  them  stand  till  there  is  enough  juice 
to  cook  without  burning.  Simmer  slowly,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  fruit.  When  thoroughly  heated,  fill  the  cans,  screw  on 
:be  top,  shake  down,  open  and  fill  again,  sealing  quickly,  and  keep 
in  a  dark,  cool  place.  Black-caps  require  some  water,  as  they  are 
much  dryer  than  the  red  berries.  Red  raspberries  and  currants 
in  equal  quantities  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner. 

CANNED  RASPBERRIES  WITH  CURRANT  JUICE. 

13  pounds  sugar,  1  quart  currant  juice, 

10  pounds  red  or  black  raspberries. 

Make  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  juice  ;  when  boiling,  add  the  fruit, 

and  continue  to  boil  for  10  minutes.     Put  in  glass  cans  and  fasten 

immediately. 

CANNED  RHUBARB. 

Prepare  and  stew  without  sugar,  and  as  little  water  as  possible 
to  prevent  burning,  before  the  juice  flows.  Have  the  cans  ready, 
fill,  and  screw  on  covers  quickly.  When  cool,  wrap  the  cans  in 
brown  paper,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.     Or,  let  simmer  for 


136  FRUIT. 

half  an  hour  in  a  syrup,  using  the  same  weight  of  sugar  as  fruit, 
then  seal. 

Always  use  granite,  earthen,  or  glass  for  rhubarb.  The  leaves 
should  be  cut  from  the  stalk  as  soon  as  it  is  pulled,  and  it  should 
be  kept  in  a  cool  i^lace,  to  have  it  fresh  and  firm  for  a  day  or  two. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES 1. 

To  each  quart  of  fresh  strawberries  allow  1  coffeecup  sugar. 
If  there  is  no  juice  in  the  bottom  of  the  fruit,  add  1  or  2  table- 
spoons water  to  prevent  burning  before  the  heat  brings  out  the 
juice;  heat  slowly,  and  when  it  boils,  add  the  sugar,  stir  gently 
until  it  boils  up  again,  and  can  immediately.  It  is  better  to  cook 
only  enough  fruit  for  one  can  at  a  time.  Usually  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
the  syrup  will  be  left  to  begin  the  next  can.  Strawberries  are  con- 
sidered difficult  to  keep,  but  there  is  no  trouble  if  the  fruit  is  fresh, 
the  can  air-tight,  and  kept  according  to  general  directions  for  can- 
ning fruit. 

CANNED    STRAWBERRIES 2. 

Place  as  many  berries  as  can  be  put  carefully  into  the  preserv- 
ing kettle  on  a  platter ;  add  sugar,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  let  them  stand  2  or  3  hours ; 
pour  the  juice  that  has  settled  into  the  kettle,  remove  the  scum 
that  rises  when  it  begins  to  boil,  and  put  the  berries  carefully  into 
it.     Let  them  boil  up  thoroughly,  and  seal  at  once. 

CANNED  WATERMELON. 

3^  pound  sugar,  1  pound  fruit, 

Ginger  root. 

Cut  off  the  rind,  remove  all  the  red  part,  and  cut  the  rest  in  strips 
2  or  3  inches  long ;  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  fork, 
remove  from  the  water  and  drain  a  few  moments.  Have  a  sjTup 
ready,  using  onl}^  what  water  is  necessary  to  dissolve  the  sugar, 
skim,  add  the  melon  and  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root,  cook  a  few 
moments  and  seal  in  cans  while  hot. 


FRUIT.  137 

JAMS. 

Cleanse  the  fruit  carefully  and  bruise  it  well  to  prevent  its  hard- 
ening when  cooked.  Two  methods  for  making  are  given.  Allow 
equal  proportions  of  sugar  and  fruit,  mash  thoroughly,  and  cook 
over  a  slow  fire  till  it  jellies.  Or,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  the  mashed  fruit  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  before  adding  the  sugar,  heated,  and  from  ten  to 
thirty  minutes  afterward.  Stir  sufficiently  to  prevent  scorching, 
watching  carefully.  In  making  butter  or  marmalade  the  same 
proportions  are  used,  but  the  fruit  is  cooked  to  a  firmer  consist- 
ency. Jams  are  made  from  the  more  juicy  berries,  such  as  black- 
berries, currants,  raspberries,  strawberries,  etc. ;  butters  or  marma- 
lades from  the  firmer  fruits,  such  as  apples,  pineapples,  oranges, 
peaches  and  apricots.  All  require  the  closest  attention,  as  the 
slightest  degree  of  burning  ruins  the  flavor.  Jam  or  marmalade  is 
sufficiently  cooked  when  no  juice  or  moisture  gathers  about  it, 
and  it  looks  dry  and  glistening  if  dropped  on  a  plate.  Put  up  in 
glass  or  small  stone  jars,  and  seal  or  secure  like  canned  fruits  or 
jellies.     Keep  jellies  and  jams  in  a  cool,  dry,  and  dark  place. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

Take  ripe  apples,  crab  apples  give  a  fine  flavor,  put  them  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  after  cutting  them  in  quarters,  barely  cover 
with  water,  boil  soft,  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  To  each 
pint  of  pulp  add  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sugar,  or  1  pint  if  the 
apples  are  very  sour,  and  boil  slowly  for  several  hours  until  the 
mixture  is  firm.  It  must  be  stirred  almost  constantly  to  prevent 
burning.  If  any  spice  is  desired  use  cinnamon.  Put  in  stone  jars 
or  bowls,  and  when  cold  cover  as  for  jelly.  Or,  strain  oflF  some  of 
the  juice  for  jelly,  put  the  remainder  of  the  apple  through  a  sieve, 
and  proceed  as  directed  above. 

PUMPKIN    BUTTER. 

Prepare  1  pumpkin  ;  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  stew  till  soft. 
Prepare  3  more  pumpkins,  stew,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  jelly 
bag;  add  the  juice  to  the  first  pumpkin  and  boil  10  hours  or 
more,  until  it  is  very  thick,  stirring  often. 


138  FRUIT. 

RHUBARB  BUTTER. 

Allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  peeled  and  chopped 
rhubarb ;  let  them  simmer  together  gently  for  an  hour,  or  more  if 
the  rhubard  is  old  and  tough. 

APPLE   JAM. 

10  pounds  apples,  3  lemons,  juice, 

7  pounds  sugar,  1  lemon,  rind. 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples,  boil  all  together  slowly,  stir,  mash 
well,  and  cook  until  clear. 

BLACKBERRY  AND   APPLE  JAM. 

2  quarts  blackberries,  1  quart  cooked  apples, 

2  quarts  sugar. 
Boil  all  together  20  minutes. 

CURRANT  JAM. 

Pick  from  stems  and  wash  thoroughly,  put  into  a  preserving  ket- 
tle and  boil  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  often,  and  skimming;  add 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  to  1  pound 
fi'uit,  or,  by  measure,  1  coffeecup  to  1  pint  mashed  fruit ;  boil  30 
minutes  longer,  stirring  almost  constantly.  When  done,  pour  in 
small  jars  or  glasses,  and  seal ;  or  secure  like  jelly,  by  first  pressing 
paper,  cut  to  fit  the  glasses,  on  the  fruit,  and  then  larger  papers, 
brushed  on  the  inside  with  the  white  of  egg^  whose  edges  turn 
down  over  the  outside  of  the  glass. 

The  addition  of  1  pound  of  raisins  to  each  gallon  of  currant 
jam  converts  this  into  French  jam. 

PINEAPPLE  JAM. 

Grate  pineapple,  and  to  1  pound  of  pulp  add  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar.     Boil  10  minutes.     No  water  is  required. 

RASPBERRY    JAM 1. 

Make  by  itself,  or,  better,  combine  with  currants  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one-third  currants  to  two-thirds  raspberries  ;  mash  the  fruit 
well,  and  proceed  as  in  currant  jam. 

Make  blackberry  jam  like  raspberry,  except  that  it  should  not 
be  mixed  with  currants. 

Strawberry  jam  is  made  exactly  like  blackberry  jam. 

RASPBERRY    JAM 2. 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
1  pound  of  fruit.      Mash  together  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  or 


FRUIT.  139 

over  night  in  the  cellar  or  ice-box.  Drain  off  the  juice,  and  when 
boiling  hot,  add  the  berries.  Simmer  until  as  thick  as  desired. 
Pour  into  jelly  tumblers,  or  bowls,  and  when  cold  cover  with  but- 
tered paper. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit, 
and  2  cups  of  red  currant  juice  to  every  4  pounds  of  berries  if  a 
tart  flavor  is  liked.  Put  the  berries  in  the  preserving  kettle,  pour 
over  the  currant  juice,  and  boil  about  30  minutes,  stirring  almost 
constantly ;  dip  off  most  of  the  juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  30 
minutes  more,  skimming  when  necessary.  Put  in  small  jars  or 
jelly  glasses.      Can  the  juice  that  is  left  over,  or  strain  it  for  jelly. 

GREEN  TOMATO  JAM. 

Peel  and  slice  green  tomatoes,  boil  slowly  4  hours  m  a  syrup 
made  in  the  proportion  of  1  pound  sugar  to  2  pounds  tomatoes ; 
when  done  flavor  with  lemons. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  a  large  panful  of  tart  apples,  cover  with 
water  and  cook  till  very  soft.  Squeeze  the  juice  and  pulp  through 
a  thin  jelly  bag;  weigh,  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  1  pound  of  pulp.  Add  a  little  gelatine  dissolved  in 
water,  and  let  it  boil  steadily  20  minutes. 

CRAB  APPLE  AND  PLUM  MARMALADE. 

Cook  the  apples  and  plums  separately,  as  for  sauce,  put  through 
a  sieve  and  measure  each.  Allow  3  pints  of  the  apple  pulp  to  1 
of  plum ;  mix  and  weigh,  adding  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  pulp.  Cook  very  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing, until  very  thick.  The  thicker  the  marmalade  is  the  nicer  it 
is,  and  the  flavor  of  the  combined  fruit  is  delicious. 

CHERRY  MARMALADE. 

This  is  best  made  of  fine  Morella  cherries.  Wash  the  cherries 
and  put  them  on  to  stew  with  1  gill  of  water  to  1  pound  of  fruit. 
When  perf  ectl}^  tender  pass  them  through  a  colander  to  extract  the 
stones.  To  1  pound  of  the  pulp  add  1  pound  of  sugar,  and  when 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  to  a  smooth  paste. 

GOOSEBERRY  MARMALADE 1. 

Stew  the  berries  in  a  little  water,  press  through  a  coarse  sieve. 


140  FRUIT. 

return  to  the  kettle,  and  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  the  pulped  gooseberry;  boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  stirring  constantly ;  pour  in  jars  or  bowls,  and  cover  as  di- 
rected for  currant  jam.  It  will  cook  in  the  oven  with  less  danger 
of  scorching,  and  will  not  need  as  much  care  as  if  on  the  stove. 
The  doors  should  be  partly  open. 

GOOSEBERRY  MARMALADE 2. 

Top  and  tail  the  fruit,  bruise  it  and  cook  till  soft,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Rub  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  the  pulp  4|-  pounds  of 
sugar  to  6  pounds  of  the  original  weight  of  the  fruit.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and  boil  until  firm. 

GRAPE    MARMALADE. 

This  is  made  of  ripe  or  green  grapes.  After  picking  them  from 
the  stems  and  rinsing  well,  stew  gently  in  a  porcelain  or  granite 
kettle,  for  10  minutes,  in  just  enough  water  to  keep  them  from 
sticking ;  run  them  through  a  sieve  or  fine  colander  to  remove  the 
skins  and  seeds.  To  each  pint  of  sifted  pulp  and  juice,  add  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  of  the  consistency  de- 
sired ;  a  large  quantity  will  need  to  boil  at  least  2  hours. 

ORANGE    MARMALADE. 

8  oranges,  4  quarts  water, 

5  lemons,  8  pounds  sugar. 

Slice  the  fruit,  take  out  the  seeds,  add  water  and  let  stand  36 

hours ;  then  boil  hard  for  2  hours ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  slowly 

1  hour  or  until  it  jellies. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE,   SCOTCH  WAY. 

Slice  the  oranges  very  thin,  taking  out  the  seeds.  To  each 
pound  of  fruit,  add  2  pints  water.  Let  this  stand  24  hours  ;  then 
boil  until  the  chips  are  tender.  Next  day,  weigh  it,  and  to  each 
pound  add  IJ  pounds  of  lump  sugar.  Boil  the  whole  until  the 
sjrrup  jellies,  and  the  chips  are  clear.  This  will  be  in  an  hour. 
One  dozen  oranges  makes  about  twenty  pound  pots  of  marmalade. 

PEACH    MARMALADE 1. 

Take  very  ripe  peaches,  mash  fine,  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
until  quite  warm,  strain  through  a  colander,  weigh,  put  back  in  the 
fettle,  and  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  sugar  to  each  pound 


FRUIT.  141 

fruit     Stir  well  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  boil  fast  20  minutes, 
and  put  in  small  bowls.     When  cold,  seal  the  same  as  jelly, 

PEACH    MARMALADE 2. 

Choose  ripe,  well-flavored  fruit.  It  is  wise  to  make  preserves  at 
the  same  time,  reserving  for  marmalade  those  that  are  soft.  Boil 
the  pits  in  the  water  with  which  the  syrup  is  to  be  made.  Pare  and 
quarter  the  peaches  and  boil  30  minutes  before  adding  sugar,  stir- 
ring almost  constantly  from  the  time  the  peaches  begin  to  cook ; 
add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three-fourths  of  a  pound  to  1  pound 
fruit,  continue  to  boil  and  stir  for  an  hour  longer,  and  put  up  in 
jars,  pressing  paper  over  them  as  directed  for  jellies. 

PINEAPPLE   MARMALADE. 

Prepare  as  for  preserving,  and  continue  cooking  the  pineapple 
pulp  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  it  through  a  colander.  Return 
to  the  fire  and  boil,  stirring  continually  till  it  curls  before  the  fin- 
ger, which  is  pushed  through  a  little  taken  out  to  cool.  Or,  peel 
the  pineapples  and  grate  them,  saving  all  the  juice.  The  pulp  and 
juice  should  then  be  weighed,  and  1  pound  of  sugar  added  to  every 
pound  of  pineapple.  When  the  marmalade  has  boiled  half  an 
hour,  test  it  by  pushing  the  finger  through  a  little  which  has  been 
taken  out  to  cool.     If  it  is  not  done  cook  it  longer. 

PLUM    MARMALADE. 

Wash  the  fruit,  and  stew  it  with  enough  water  to  keep  from 
scorching.  Mash,  and  strain  through  a  colander.  To  1  pint  of 
pulp  add  1  pound  of  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  boil  it 
till  it  is  a  smooth  mass.  Or,  use  plums  left  after  straining  off  the 
juice  for  jell}-,  and  sift  to  remove  stones  and  skins ;  to  1  pint  of 
pulp  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  slowly,  stirring  well  to 
prevent  burning,  until  smooth  and  thick. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Take  quinces  after  making  jelly,  boil  till  soft,  put  through  a 
colander,  and  to  1  pound  of  pulp  add  1  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  till 
of  the  consistency  desired.  Canned  or  preserved  quinces  may  also 
be  used  for  marmalade  by  chopping  fine,  adding  sugar  if  needed, 
and  cooking  till  firm. 


142 


FRUIT. 


JELLIES. 

Jellies  should  be  made  from  the  best  fruit,  with  granulated 
sugar,  and  cooked  in  a  porcelain  or  granite  kettle.  Be  careful  to 
choose  fruit  that  is  barely  ripe,  otherwise  the  juice  will  not  jelly- 
well,  and  will  have  a  tendency  to  liquefy.  Place  the  fruit  in  the 
kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  stir  often,  and 
let  remain  on  the  fire  until  thoroughly  scalded  ;  a  better  bat  slower 
method  is  to  place  it  in  a  stone  jar  set  within  a  kettle  of  tepid 
water,  cook  until  the  fruit  is  well  softened,  stirring  frequently,  and 
then  strain  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  through  a  strong,  coarse 
flannel  or  cotton  bag  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  after  which  let  it 
drain,  and  squeeze  it  with  the  hands  as  it  cools,  or  strain  through 
another  bag  to  make  it  ver}'-  clear.  The  larger  fruits,  such  as  ap- 
ples and  quinces,  should  be  cut  in  pieces,  cores  removed  if  at  all 
defective,  water  added  to  just  cover  them,  boiled  gently  until  ten- 
der, turned  into  a  bag  and  placed  to  drain  for  three  or  four  hours, 
or  over  night.  As  a  general  rule,  allow  equal  measures  of  juice 
and  sugar.  Boil  juice  ten  minutes  from  the  first  moment  of  boil- 
ing, skim,  add  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer;  or  spread  the 
sugar  in  a  large  earthen  bowl,  set  in  the  oven,  stir  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, boil  the  juice  ten  minutes,  skim  if  needed,  add  the  hot  sugar, 
let  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses  immediately,  as  a  thin 
skin  forms  over  the  surface  which  keeps  out  the  air.  To  test 
jelly,  drop  a  little  in  a  glass  of  very  cold  water,  and  if  it  immedi- 
ately falls  to  the  bottom  it  is  done ;  or  drop  in  a  saucer,  and  set  on 
ice  or  in  a  cool  place ;  if  it  does  not  spread,  but  remains  rounded, 
it  is  finished.  Set  the  glasses  on  a  wet  cloth  and  the  boiling 
liquid  can  be  poured  into  them  without  danger  of  breaking ;  or, 
let  the  liquid  run  into  them  over  a  silver  spoon  standing  in  the  jar 
or  glass.  When  ready  to  put  awaj^,  cover  with  pieces  of  writing  or 
tissue  paper,  cut  to  fit,  and  pressed  closely  over  the  jelly ;  put  on  a 
cover  of  thicker  paper,  brushed  over  on  the  inside  with  the  unbeaten 
white  of  an  egg,  and  turned  down  on  the  outside  of  the  glass. 
Keep  in  a  drj^,  cool,  and  dark  place.  Jelly  needs  more  attention 
in  damp,  rainy  seasons  than  in  others. 

APPLE    JELLY. 

Wash,  quarter,  and  core  tart,  j  uicy  apples,  and  to  8  quarts  quar- 


FRUIT.  143 

tered  apples  add  3  quarts  water.  Let  them  boil  slowly  until  a 
mush,  renewing  the  water  as  it  boils  away  so  that  the  dish  is  as 
full  when  the  apples  are  done  as  it  was  at  first.  Strain  through 
flannel,  allowing  it  to  drain  thoroughly,  but  do  not  squeeze  it. 
Add  1  pint  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  20  minutes,  skim- 
ming it  well. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  quarter  large  Siberian  crabs,  but  do  not  core  them, 
cover  to  the  depth  of  1  or  2  inches  with  cold  water,  and  cook  to  a 
mush ;  pour  into  a  coarse  cotton  bag  or  strainer,  and  extract  all 
the  juice.  Take  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  or  crinoline,  wring  out  of 
water,  spread  it  over  a  colander  placed  on  a  crock,  and  pour  in  the 
juice,  allowing  plenty  of  time  to  run  through ;  repeat  this  process, 
rinsing  the  cloth  frequently.  Allow  the  strained  juice  of  4  lemons 
to  1  peck  of  apples,  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  from  10  to  20  minutes;  while  boil- 
ing sift  in  the  sugar  slowly,  stirring  constantly,  and  boil  5  minutes 
longer.  This  is  generally  sufficient,  but  it  is  always  safer  to  ascer- 
t£tin  whether  it  will  jelly. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY  AND  MARMALADE. 

Have  good,  sound  crab  apples,  not  too  ripe,  cut  out  all  defec- 
tive portions,  wash,  and  to  8  quarts  apples  add  3  quarts  water; 
boil  slowly  1  hour,  or  till  the  fruit  is  quite  soft,  renewing  the 
water  that  the  apples  may  be  covered  when  cooked.  Strain 
through  a  jelly  bag,  but  do  not  press  with  the  hands,  as  only  the 
clear  juice  is  used  for  the  jelly,  and  let  it  boil  10  or  15  minutes; 
then  add  the  sugar,  which  has  been  heated  in  the  oven,  allowing  1 
pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  fruit,  and  boil  5  minutes  longer. 
Or,  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  to  take  out  the  cores  and  skins. 
To  each  pint  of  puip  add  1  pint  of  sugar,  and  cook  till  of  the  con- 
sistency desired. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 1. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  berries  and  strain  it ;  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  sugar,  and  boil  hard  25  minutes,  then  pour  into 
moulds. 


144  FRun: 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 2. 

4  pints  blackberry  juice,  '%  box  gelatine, 

3  pints  sugar.  Water  to  dissolve  gelatine. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  stir  it  into  the  juice,  to  which 
the  sugar  has  been  added,  and  boil  15  minutes. 

calf's  feet  jelly. 
3  calf's  feet,  3^  pound  loaf  sugar, 

2  quarts  water,  6  lemons, 

4  eggs,  whites  and  shells. 
Cut  the  feet  in  small  pieces,  after  they  have  been  well  cleaned 
and  the  hair  taken  off.  Stew  very  gently  in  the  water,  until  it  is 
reduced  to  1  quart.  When  cold,  take  off  the  fat,  and  remove  the 
jelly  from  the  sediment.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar, 
the  lemons  sliced,  with  the  peel  rubbed  on  the  sugar,  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  the  shells  broken.  Set  over  the  fire,  but 
do  not  stir  after  it  begins  to  warm.  Let  it  boil  15  minutes  after 
it  comes  to  a  head,  then  cover  close,  let  stand  half  an  hour,  and 
pour  it  through  a  jell}^  bag  until  clear.  Add  more  lemons  or 
oranges  to  suit  the  taste. 

cherry  jelly. 
Look  over  and  pit  sour,  perfect,  and  juicy  cherries.  While  heat- 
ing, mash  them,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  measure  juice,  and  add 
1  pint  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice.  Simmer  slowly  until  a  scum 
rises  ;  skim,  and  boil  15  minutes.  Dip  into  tumblers.  Next  day 
cover  with  white  paper  and  fasten  the  edges  with  white  of  Q^'g. 

coffee  jelly. 
^  box  Cox's  gelatine,  1  quart  strong  black  coffee, 

yi  cup  cold  water,  Sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  half  an  hour  in  the  cold  water.  Heat  the 
coffee  to  boiling  point,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  dissolved  gelatine, 
stir  well,  strain  into  a  mould  rinsed  with  cold  water  just  before 
using,  set  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place,  and  serve  with  cream  or 
whipped  cream.  This  jelly  is  very  pretty,  formed  in  a  circular 
mould  with  a  tube  in  the  center ;  when  turned  out  fill  the  space  in 
the  center  with  whipped  cream. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Prepare  juice  as  in  general  directions,  add  1  pound  sugar  to 
every  pint,  boil  and  skim,  and  test ;  rinse  the  glasses  in  cold  water 


FRUIT.  145 

before  pouring  in  the  jelly.  The  pulp  may  be  sweetened  and  used 
for  sauce.  Or,  wash  and  boil  sound  berries  to  a  pulp,  with  just 
enough  water  to  prevent  their  burning.  Pass  them  through  a 
colander  or  a  fruit  strainer  to  remove  the  skins.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  granulated  sugar  to  the  juice,  and  boil  firm.  Mould  in 
individual  dishes  or  in  a  large  mould,  after  dipping  in  very  cold 
water. 

CURRANT   JELLY. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  tepid  water 
over  the  fire.  Heat  gi'adually  and  let  boil,  closely  covered,  until 
the  skins  break.  Pour  the  whole  into  a  clean,  stout  muslin  bag, 
and  let  it  drip  into  a  large  earthen  bowl  or  stone  jar  several  hours 
or  over  night.  It  is  best  not  to  squeeze  it,  as  it  will  not  be  so 
clear.  To  each  pint  of  juice,  allow  1  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the 
juice  on  to  heat  slowly,  and  let  it  boil  20  minutes.  Meanwhile, 
heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven,  and  put  it  into  the  boiling  juice,  where 
it  will  melt  very  quickly.  Let  the  jelly  just  come  to  a  boil  and 
remove  at  once  from  the  fire.  Set  the  jelly  glasses  on  a  wet  towel 
folded  in  4  thicknesses,  and  fill  with  the  liquid.  If  it  does  not 
seem  firm  enough  when  cool,  set  it  in  the  sun.  Boiling  jelly 
darkens  it.  Other  small  fruit  jellies  are  made  in  the  same  way. 
Strawberry  jelly  is  improved  by  lemon  juice.  Cover  closely  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

CURRANT  JELLY  WITHOUT  COOKING. 

Pick  from  stems  and  wash,  being  very  careful  that  no  water  is 
left  on  them.  Press  out  the  juice  and  strain  it.  To  every  pint 
allow  1  pound  fine  white  sugar ;  stir  well  together  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  pour  in  cans,  seal  and  set  them  in  the  hot  sun  for  2  or 
3  days.  Or,  prepare  the  juice,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  in  the  cel- 
lar for  24  hours.  The  froth  that  will  cover  the  surface  at  the  end 
of  that  time  must  be  removed,  and  the  juice  strained  through  a 
jelly  bag,  then  weighed,  and  an  equal  weight  of  powdered  sugar 
added.  Stir  constantly  till  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved, 
pour  into  jars,  and  cover  tightly.  A  transparent  jelly  of  fine 
flavor,  which  will  keep  well,  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  24  hours. 

ECONOMICAL  JELLY. 

Cook  a  gallon  jar  of  sound,  clean  apple  parings  in  enough  water 


146  FRUIT. 

tx)  make  6  teacups  of  juice  when  the  parings  are  soft.  Strain  the 
juice,  bring  it  to  a  boil  and  skim  it ;  then  add  3  cups  sugar,  and 
boil  the  jelly  till  it  is  of  the  proper  consistency. 

ELDERBERRY  AND  GRAPE  JELLY. 
4  pounds  ripe  elderberries,  Sugar, 

4  pounds  green  or  partially  ripe  grapes. 
Mash  the  fruit  and  put  it  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  one-half 
cup  water,  and  boil  until  soft.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  meas- 
ure the  juice,  return  it  to  the  fire  and  boil  30  minutes  ;  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar,  boil  5  or  10  minutes  longer,  pour  into 
glasses,  and  seal  when  cool. 

FOUR-FRUIT    JELLY. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  and 
red  cherries,  stoned,  adding  the  juice  that  escaped  in  stoning. 
Mix  the  fruit  together,  put  it  into  a  linen  bag,  and  squeeze  thor- 
oughly ;  when  it  has  ceased  to  drip,  measure,  and  to  1  pint  of  juice 
allow  1  pound  and  2  ounces  of  sugar.  Mix  the  juice  and  sugar 
together ;  put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  boil  half  an  hour,  skim- 
ming frequently.  Try  the  jelly  by  holding  a  spoonful  in  the  open 
air;  if  it  congeals  readily  it  is  sufficiently  done. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 

4  pounds  unripe  gooseberries,  Sugar, 

2  quarts  water,  K  box  gelatine. 

Cook  the  gooseberries  in  the  water,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag, 
allow  1  pint  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  water,  and  boil  all  together  15  or  20  minutes. 

GRAPE   JELLY. 

This  may  be  made  from  grapes  in  all  degrees  of  ripeness,  that 
from  green  grapes  having  a  peculiarly  delicate  flavor  and  fine  color. 
Stew  as  for  marmalade,  then  pour  off  the  juice,  and  strain  through 
a  flannel  cloth,  not  squeezing  or  pressing  it  any,  as  particles  of 
pulp  give  the  jelly  a  cloudy  appearance.  To  each  pint  of  clear 
juice,  add  1  i)int  of  sugar,  and  boil  20  minutes.  Set  the  glasses 
on  a  wet  towel  and  fill  with  the  jelly. 

FOX  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Take  green  fox  grapes,  wash,  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with 
just  water  enough  to  pulp  them.  When  tender,  mash  and  strain 
through  a  cloth.     To  each  pint  of  the  juice  add  1  pound  of  sugar, 


FRUIT.  147 

and  1  teaspoon  powdered  gum  arable  dissolved  in  warm  water. 
When  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  stir  it  well,  and  place  the  kettle 
over  the  fire.  Let  it  boil  15  or  20  minutes,  and  try  it.  Pour 
it  into  the  glasses  while  warm,  and  let  itstand  till  next  day  before 
covering. 

SPICED  GRAPE  JELLY. 

1  quart  grape  juice,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

1  quart  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cloves. 

Crush  the  juice  from  half  ripe  grapes,  and  strain  it.      Use  the 

ingredients  in  the  above  proportions,  and  cook  hard  20  minutes ; 

remove  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  glasses. 

LEMON   JELLY. 
%,  box  gelatine,  1  pint  boiling  water, 

Yt  pint  cold  water,  V/z  cups  sugar, 

3  lemons,  juice. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  1  hour,  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  juice  of  lemons  ;  let  stand  on  the  stove  till  boil- 
ing, strain  into  moulds  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  ready  to  serve. 
The  addition  of  a  few  thin  slices  of  lemon  a  few  moments  before 
straining  improves  the  flavor. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

9  oranges,  juice,  4  ounces  gelatine, 

3  lemons,  juice,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  Q^%^  white,  2  quarts  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  the  water,  boil  the  rest  with  the 
sugar,  skim  well,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  orange  and  lemon 
juice,  and  beaten  ^^g ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  skim,  cook  until  it 
jellies,  and  pour  into  a  mould. 

PEACH    JELLY. 

Pare,  pit  and  slice  the  peaches  and  place  them  in  a  jar.  Crack 
one-third  of  the  pits  and  add  them  to  the  peaches.  Heat  in  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water,  stirring  occasionally  until  the  fruit  is  well 
broken.  Strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  and  measure  again.  Allow  1  pound  sugar  to  each  pint 
juice,  heat  it  very  hot,  and  add  to  the  juice  when  it  has  boiled  20 
minutes.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  take  from  the  fire  at 
once.     This  is  recommended  for  jelly  cake. 


148  FRUIT. 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY. 

)4  b<5x  gelatine,  1  pint  boiling  water, 

}i  pint  cold  water,  13^  cups  sugar, 

1  can  pineapple. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  1  hour;  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  the  pineapple  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  strain  into  a  mould,  and  set  on  ice  to  cool.  Wrap  a  cloth 
dipped  in  hot  water  around  the  mould  for  a  few  moments,  when 
ready  for  use,  and  it  will  slip  out  easily. 

PLUM  JELLY  AND  MARMALADE. 

If  the  plums  are  wild,  sprinkle  with  soda  and  pour  hot  water 
over  them,  let  stand  a  few  moments  and  stir  them  ;  take  out,  and 
put  on  to  cook  with  water  enough  to  cover  them, — if  the  plums  are 
very  juicy  less  water  will  be  required — boil  till  soft,  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag,  but  avoid  squeezing.  Measure,  and  boil  10  or  15 
minutes;  add  sugar,  allowing  1  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice, 
and  boil.  Test  by  dropping  a  little  in  a  saucer  and  setting  it  on 
ice.  If  the  plums  are  the  cultivated  wild  ones,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  use  soda.  Press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  to  take  out  the  pits 
and  skins.  Allow  pint  for  pint,  of  sugar  and  pulp.  Boil  the  lat- 
ter half  an  hour,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  10  or  15  minutes  longer. 
Half  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  pulp  makes  a  rich  marmalade. 

Plum-apple  jelly  may  be  made  by  preparing  the  juice  of  apples 
and  plums  as  above;  a  nice  proportion  is  1  part  plums  to  2  parts 
apples  ;  mix  the  juice  and  finish.  A  bushel  of  apples  and  1  peck 
of  plums  make  40  pints  of  jelly,  part  crab  apple  alone  and  part 
mixed,  and  1 6  quart  jars  of  mixed  marmalade.  In  making  either 
kind  of  jellj^  the  fruit  may  be  squeezed  and  the  juice  strained  twice 
through  ^  p  "..  ■)  muslin  or  crinoline,  and  made  into  jelly.  The  pulp 
can  not  then  be  used  for  marmalade. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth  until  perfectly  smooth,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  pack  tight  in  a  kettle,  pour  on  cold  water  until  level  with 
the  fruit,  and  boil  until  very  soft ;  make  a  three-cornered  flannel 
bag,  pour  in  the  fruit  and  drain,  occasionally  pressing  on  the  top 
and  sides  to  make  the  juice  run  more  freely,  taking  care  not  to 
press  hard  enough  to  expel  the  pulp.     There  is  not  much  need  of 


FRUIT.  149 

pressing  a  bag  made  in  this  shape,  as  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  the 
larger  part  causes  the  juice  to  flow  freely  at  the  point.  To  1  pint 
of  juice  add  1  pint  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  jellies ;  pour  into 
tumblers,  or  bowls,  and  finish  according  to  general  directions.  If 
qmnces  are  scarce,  the  parings  and  cores  of  quinces  with  good, 
tart  apples,  boiled  and  strained  as  above,  make  excellent  jelly,  and 
the  quinces  may  be  saved  for  preserves. 

RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  JELLY. 

If  currants  are  used  with  red  raspberries  in  equal  parts,  the  jelly 
will  be  firmer  and  the  flavor  will  be  very  delicate.  Look  the  fruit 
over  carefully,  wash  and  mash  the  currants,  and  place  together  in 
an  oven  that  is  hot  enough  to  extract  the  juice.  Stir  well,  strain 
without  squeezing  through  a  jelly  bag.  Measure  and  set  the  juice 
on  to  boil.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  oven  in  shallow  pans  to  heat,  al- 
lowing equal  measure  of  juice  and  sugar.  When  the  juice  has 
boiled  20  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  rapidly  till  thoroughly 
dissolved ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  take  from  the  fire  at  once,  and 
pour  into  jelly  glasses 

RHUBARB  JELLY. 

Wash  the  stalks  well,  cut  into  small  pieces,  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle  with  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  to  a  soft  pulp ; 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  a  pound  of 
sugar ;  boil,  skim,  and  when  it  jellies  pour  into  jars.  After  the 
juice  has  been  prepared,  the  juice  of  1  lemon  may  be  added  to 
each  3  pints  of  rhubarb  juice,  and  half  the  rind  boiled  in  it  for  a 
few  moments. 

RHUBARB  AND  APPLE  JELLY. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  in  small  pieces  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire,  with- 
out adding  any  water ;  pare,  quarter  and  cook  good,  sour  apples  in 
a  very  little  water ;  strain  the  juice  from  both,  measure,  and  boil 
20  minutes.  Heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven,  allowing  three-fourths 
of  a  pint  to  each  pint  of  juice ;  add  it  to  the  juice,  and  boil  10  or 
15  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  glasses,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  for  a 
few  hours. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Prepare  the  berries,  put  into  a  jar,  and  set  into  a  kettle  contain- 
ing lukewarm  water.     Cover  and  boil  till  the  juice  is  expressed. 


150 


FRUIT. 


Drain  through  a  bag,  measure,  and  boil ;  allow  1  pound  of  sugar 
to  1  pint  of  juice,  and  heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven.  When  the 
juice  has  boiled  20  minutes,  add  the  hot  sugar,  boil  together  thor- 
oughly, and  pour  into  glasses. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Break  ripe  tomatoes  into  pieces  and  stew  them  in  as  little  water 
as  will  keep  them  from  burning.  Pour  into  a  jelly  bag,  and  when 
the  juice  has  run  through  add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
the  juice.  Return  to  the  stove  and  boil  until  it  jellies.  Serve 
with  roast  meat 

PRESEKVES. 

Until  the  modern  method  of  canning  was  introduced,  all  fruit 
kept  for  instant  use  was  prepared  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar, 
and  was  called  preserves.  Genuine  preserves  are  made  by  the  old 
rule,  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Make  a  hot  syrup  by 
adding  a  little  water  to  the  sugar,  and  letting  it  boil.  JJ  neces- 
sary to  clarify  it,  add  just  before  it  boils  the  white  of  an  egg 
beaten  lightly  with  two  tablespoons  of  water ;  as  it  begins  to  boil, 
skim  carefully  and  repeat  the  process  until]  no  more  scum  arises 
add  the  fruit  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Peaches,  pears,  and 
quinces  should  be  pared  and  halved.  Small  fruits  should  be  put 
directly  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  when  cooked,  carefully  skimmed 
out,  to  avoid  breaking.  Boil  down  the  syi'up,  if  there  is  a  larger 
quantity  than  needed,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  Let  the  preserv- 
ing kettle  be  of  porcelain  or  granite  ware,  use  granulated  sugar, 
and  select  perfect  fruit,  fresh,  and  just  reaching  a  ripe  condition. 
Cover  the  fruit  when  cooked,  but  do  not  set  away  until  cold. 
When  preserves  are  candied,  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
and  boil  for  an  hour ;  or,  empty  them  into  a  crock  kept  for  that  pur- 
pose, set  into  the  oven  and  boil  a  few  minutes,  watching  carefully 
to  prevent  burning.  When  specks  of  mould  appear,  take  off  care- 
fully, and  scald  the  preserves. 

APPLE    PRESERVE. 

Take  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  apples ; 
make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  skim,  add  a  few  apples  at  a 
time,  cook  until  they  are  transparent,  and  place  in  a  jar.     When 


FRUIT.  151 

all  are  done,  boil  the  syrup  until  thick,  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
apples,  and  cover  closel3\  Well-flavored  fruit,  not  easily  broken  in 
cooking,  should  be  used.  Bruised  ginger-root  or  a  sliced  lemon 
may  be  added  to  the  boiling  syrup. 

CHERRY   PRESERVE 1. 

Weigh  the  stoned  cherries,  and  allow  10  pounds  sugar  to  12 
pounds  fruit.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  fruit,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Then  drain  off  the  juice,  boil  it  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  the 
cherries,  and  cook  till  thick.  Keep  the  preserve  in  stone  jars 
covered  with  buttered  paper,  and  tie  two  layers  of  paper  over  them. 

CHERRY    PRESERVE 2. 

Choose  sour  ones, — the  early  Richmond  is  good — stone  them, 
and  allow  an  amount  of  sugar  equal  to  the  fruit;  take  half  the 
sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  fruit,  let  stand  1  hour,  pour  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  boil  slowly  10  minutes,  skim  out  the  cherries,  add 
the  rest  of  the  sugar  to  the  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  over  the. 
cherries  ;  the  next  day  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil,  skim  if  neces 
sary,  add  the  cherries,  boil  20  minutes,  and  seal  up  in  small  jars. 

CITRON  PRESERVE. 

Pare,  seed,  cut  in  thin  slices  2  inches  long,  weigh,  and  put  in  a 
preserving  kettle  with  water  to  cover ;  boil  1  hour,  take  out  the 
melon,  and  to  the  water  add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  melon  ; 
boil  until  thick,  replace  the  melon,  with  2  sliced  lemons  to  each 
pound  of  fruit ;  boil  20  minutes,  take  out,  boil  the  syrup  until  very 
thick,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

PRESERVED  CITRON,  ORANGE  AND  LEMON  PEEL. 

Soak  in  salt  and  water  over  night,  freshen  in  3  waters  and  boil 
till  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  pint  of  water  to  1  pound  of  sugar, 
and  boil  the  peel  in  it  half  an  hour.  It  may  be  cut  in  fine  strips 
before  cooking. 

CANDIED  CITRON  PEEL. 

Harden  them  in  brine  1  week.  Freshen  1  week,  changing  the 
water  every  day.  Cut  in  quarters  and  scrape  out  the  pulp.  Peel, 
and  boil  in  alum  water  till  tender.  Freshen  over  night.  Allow 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  rind ;  cook  till  soft,  and  dry 
in  the  sun,  letting  it  absorb  all  the  syrup.  The  syrup  may  be 
flavored  with  lemon. 


152  FRUIT. 

ELDERBERRY  PRESERVE. 

Use  in  the  proportions  of  1  pound  berries,  1  pound  sugar,  and 
1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind.  Make  a  syrup,  using  the  lemon, 
and  as  little  water  as  possible.  Skim  if  necessary,  add  the  berries 
and  cook  20  minutes.  Strain  out  the  berries  into  jari  or  glasses, 
boil  the  syrup  to  a  jelly  and  pour  over  the  fruit  as  much  as  the  jar 
will  hold.  In  24  hours  cover.  If  an  open-mouthed  receptacle, 
without  a  cover,  is  used,  lay  on  a  piece  of  thin  paper  and  tie  over 
the  jar  a  cloth  or  thick  paper  cover. 

CITRON  AND  QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  cut  the  citron  into  small  pieces,  boil  hard  in  alum 
water  half  an  hour,  drain,  and  boil  in  fresh  water  till  tender. 
Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  and  cut  them  into  8  pieces.  Boil  the 
parings  and  cores  1^  half  hours  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them ; 
strain  off  the  liquid  and  cook  the  prepared  quinces  in  it  till  nearly 
tender,  add  the  citron,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three- 
fourths  pound  of  sugar.     Boil  till  clear. 

FIG  PRESERVE. 

Gather  the  fi'uit  when  f  ullj^  ripe,  but  not  cracked  open ;  place  in 
a  perfoi:ated  tin  bucket  or  wire  basket,  and  dip  for  a  moment  into 
a  deep  kettle  of  hot  and  moderately  strong  lye  or  let  them  lie  1 
hour  in  lime  water,  and  afterwards  drain ;  make  a  syrup  in  the  pro- 
portion of  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  of  fruit,  and  when  the  figs  are 
drained,  add  them  to  the  syrup  and  cook  well,  remove,  boil  down 
the  syrup  leaving  only  enough  to  cover  the  fruit.  Boil  all  to- 
gether 1  minute,  and  seal  while  hot  in  glass  or  porcelain  jars. 

GRAPE    PRESERVE. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems,  pop  the  pulps  from  the  skins, 
doing  2  at  a  time,  1  in  each  hand  between  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger. Put  the  pulp  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  stew  gently  until 
the  seeds  are  loosened ;  then  strain  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve, 
weigh  it  with  the  skins,  and  to  every  pound  allow  1  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  the  skins  and  juice  in  a  kettle,  cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  skins  are  tender ;  while  still  boiling  add  the  sugar  and 
move  the  kettle  back,  as  it  must  not  boil  again  ;  keep  very  hot  for 
15  minutes,  then,  if  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  pour  the 
fruit  into  cans,  and  screw  down  the  covers  as  soon  as  possible. 


FRUIT.  153 

PRESERVED    GRAPES    IN   BUNCHES. 

Take  out  the  seeds  with  a  pin,  breaking  the  bunches  as  little  a& 
possible ;  boil  some  clarified  sugar  until  nearly  ready  to  "candy  "  ; 
add  grapes  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  without  laying  them 
on  each  other,  and  boil  5  minutes  to  extract  the  juice  ;  lay  them 
in  an  earthen  pan  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them ;  cover  with  paper, 
and  the  next  day  boil  the  syrup  for  5  minutes,  skimming  it  well ; 
put  in  the  grapes,  let  them  boil  1  minute  and  pour  them  into  pots. 

ORANGE  PRESERVE. 

Allow  equal  weights  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Pare  one-half  the 
oranges  and  cut  the  peel  into  shreds.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  from 
the  remaining  oranges,  remove  the  white  inner  skin  and  throw  it 
away.  Separate  all  the  oranges  into  quarters,  remove  seeds,  cut 
or  chop  into  small  pieces,  drain  off  all  the  juice  that  leaves  the 
fruit  without  pressing  it,  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar.  Unless  the 
oranges  are  very  juicy,  a  little  water  will  be  needed  for  the  syrup. 
Place  it  over  the  fire,  boil  for  5  or  6  minutes,  skim,  add  the  shreded 
peel  and  cook  10  minutes,  then  the  grated  peel  and  chopped  pulp, 
and  boil  20  minutes.     Put  into  jars  and  seal  when  cold. 

PEACH  PRESERVE. 

Take  any  fine  peaches  that  do  not  mash  readily  in  cooking,  pare 
carefully  and  remove  the  pits ;  take  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  the 
fruit,  or  if  to  be  sealed,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound 
of  fruit,  and  a  half  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  pits  in 
the  water,  adding  more  as  it  evaporates,  to  keep  the  proportion  good ; 
remove  the  pits,  add  the  sugar,  clarify,  and  when  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise,  add  the  fruit,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time ;  cook  slowly 
about  10  minutes,  skim  out  into  a  jar,  add  more,  and  repeat  until 
all  are  done,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  all.  The  next 
day  drain  off  and  boil  the  syrup  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  back,  re- 
peating daily  until  the  fruit  looks  clear.  Two  or  three  time  is  gen- 
erally sufficient.  The  last  time  put  up  the  preserves  in  small  jars, 
and  secure  with  paper  as  directed  for  jellies.  If  to  be  sealed  in 
cans,  the  first  boiling  is  sufficient,  after  which  put  into  cans  and 
seal  immediately.  The  latter  plan  is  preferable,  as  it  takes  x€ss 
trouble  and  less  sugar,  while  the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  bet- 
ter  retained.     Many  think  pench  preserv^es  much  nicer  if  made 


154  FBUIT. 

with  maple  sugar.  Clingstone  peaches  are  preserved  in  the  same 
way  whole,  except  that  they  must  be  put  on  in  clear  water  and 
boiled  whole  until  so  tender  that  they  may  be  pierced  with  a  silver 
fork  before  adding  the  sugar. 

PEAR  PRESERVE. 

Pare,  cut  in  halves,  core  and  weigh  ;  if  hard,  boil  in  water  until 
tender,  and  use  it  for  the  syrup  ;  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  boil  a  few  moments,  skim,  and  cool ; 
when  lukewarm  add  the  pears,  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  has 
penetrated  them  and  they  look  clear ;  some  of  the  pieces  will  cook  be- 
fore the  rest,  and  must  be  removed;  when  done,  take  out,  boil 
down  the  syrup  a  little  and  pour  over  them  ;  a  few  cloves  stuck  here 
and  there  in  the  pears  add  a  pleasant  flavor.  Put  in  jars  with 
glass  or  tin  tops,  and  seal  with  putty,  or  plaster  of  Paris.  A  very 
nice  preserve  is  made  of  pears  and  quinces,  in  the  proportion  of 
one-third  quince  to  two-thirds  pear. 

,  PINEAPPLE     PRESERVE. 

The  most  delicious  way  of  preserving  a  pineapple  is  in  its  own 
juice  without  using  one  drop  of  water  to  make  the  syrup.  Peel 
carefully  the  requisite  number,  weigh  them,  and  allow  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  pineapple.  Put  the  pineap- 
ples in  a  huge  earthen  bowl  or  in  a  stone  crock,  and  scatter  the  sugar 
over  them.  Cover,  and  let  them  stand  for  24  hours.  A  clear  juice 
will  nearly  cover  them  then.  Now  take  each  pineapple  and  tear 
the  pulp  off  the  core,  using  a  silver  fork.  Drain  off  the  juice  from 
the  pulp  and  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle.  Let  it  boil  5  minutes, 
then  skim,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  strainer  over  the  pineap- 
ple pulp.  Let  the  pulp  boil  up  in  the  syrup  once,  then  can  it  im- 
mediately, as  longer  boiling  darkens  the  preserves. 

PLUM    PRESERVE 1. 

For  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar,  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar  or  pan  in  alternate  layers  and  set  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  oven  for  several  hours,  or  all  night  if  prepared  at  tea 
time.  Drain  the  juice  from  the  plums,  boil  and  skim  it.  Remove 
the  plums  carefully  to  jars  or  cans ;  pour  over  them  the  boiHng 
hot  syrup  and  seal  at  once.  It  is  well  to  prick  the  plums  with  a 
coarse  needle  after  washing. 


FRUIT.  155 

PLUM    PRESERVE 2. 

Allow  equal  weights  of  plums  and  sugar.  Add  1  pint  of  water  to 
2  pounds  of  sugar,  boil  the  syrup,  skim  it,  and  drop  in  the  plums 
a  few  at  a  time,  after  having  pricked  them  with  a  coarse  needle. 
Boil  gently  20  minutes,  remove  the  plums  with  a  skimmer,  put  in 
jars,  cover  with  the  syrup  and  when  cold  screw  on  the  tops,  or 
cover  with  paper. 

PLUM  SWEETMEATS. 

Select  ripe  damson  plums,  peel,  stone,  and  halve  them  ;  let  them 
cook  in  their  own  juice  until  sufficiently  soft  to  rub  them  through 
a  sieve.  Make  sweet  with  sugar ;  if  spice  is  desired  add  cinnamon, 
return  to  the  fire,  cook  until  tender,  fill  the  jars  and  seal  im- 
mediately. 

QUINCE  AND  APPLE  PRESERVE. 

Take  equal  weights  of  quinces  and  sugar,  pare,  core,  leave  whole 
or  cut  in  pieces,  boil  till  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover,  take  out 
carefully,  lay  on  a  platter,  add  the  sugar  to  the  water,  put  in  the 
fruit  and  boil  slowly  till  clear,  place  in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over 
them.  To  increase  the  quantity  without  adding  sugar,  take  one- 
half  or  two-thirds  in  weight  as  many  fair  sweet  apples  as  there  are 
quinces,  pare,  quarter,  and  core ;  after  removing  the  quinces,  put 
the  apples  into  the  syrup,  and  boil  until  red  and  clear,  and  ten- 
der ;  place  the  quinces  and  apples  in  a  jar  in  alternate  la3^ers,  and 
cover  with  syrup.  For  the  use  of  parings  and  cores,  see  recipe  for 
Quince  Jelly.     Apples  alone  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

QUINCE    PRESERVE. 

Pare  and  core  quinces,  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths,  measure,  and 
to  each  quart  add  2  oranges,  or  1  lemon,  sliced  thin.  Mix  to- 
gether and  steam  until  tender,  but  avoid  breaking.  Boil  the  skins 
and  cores  slowly  for  2  hours  in  water  enough  to  cover  them. 
When  the  water  thickens,  strain,  and  add  sugar,  allowing  1  pound 
to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Make  a  syrup,  add  the  fruit,  and  simmer 
1  hour  over  a  slow  fire.     Put  into  cans  and  seal. 

RHUBARB  PRESERVE. 

Peel  and  slice  the  rhubarb  and  weigh  it.  Put  it  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  and  place  it  where  it  will  heat  very  graduall}'-  until  the  juice 
flows  freely.     No  water  should  be  added.     Then  bring  forward  on 


156  FRUIT. 

the  stove  and  stew  gently  half  an  hour.  Dip  out  half  the  juice, 
and  keep  it  warm.  Add  to  the  cooked  fruit  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  rhubarb,  with  1  teaspoon  cloves  and  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon.  Stir  well,  and  cook  till  almost  as  thick  as  jam. 
Should  it  be  too  thick,  reduce  with  a  little  of  the  warm  juice. 
Pour  into  glass  jars,  screw  on  the  tops  closely,  and  when  cool  wrap 
in  thick  paper  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVE. 

Allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  straw- 
berries. Put  fruit  and  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle  in  alternate 
layers.  After  sufficient  juice  settles  to  cook  them,  set  it  on  the 
stove,  heat,  and  boil  slowly  10  minutes.  Fill  stone  or  glass  jars 
and  seal. 

TOMATO  PRESERVE. 

Scald  and  peel  carefully,  small,  perfectly  formed  tomatoes,  not 
too  ripe, — the  yellow,  pear-shaped  ones  are  best — prick  with  a 
needle  to  prevent  bursting,  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  by 
weight,  let  them  stand  all  night,  then  pour  the  juice  into  a  preserv- 
ing kettle,  and  boil  until  it  is  a  thick  syrup,  clarifying  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  ;  add  tomatoes,  and  boil  carefully  until  they  look 
transparent.  A  piece  or  two  of  ginger-root,  or  1  lemon  to  a  pound 
of  fruit,  sliced  thin  and  cooked  with  the  fruit,  may  be  added. 

UNIQUE    PRESERVE. 

Gather  young  cucumbers,  4  inches  ki  length,  and  lay  in  strong 
brine  one  week ;  wash,  and  soak  them  a  day  and  night  in  clear 
water,  changing  4  times  ;  line  a  bell-metal  kettle  with  vine  leaves, 
and  lay  in  the  cucumbers  with  a  little  alum  scattered  among  them ; 
fill  up  with  clear  water  and  cover  with  vine  leaves,  then  with  a 
close  lid,  and  green  as  for  pickles.  Do  not  boil  them.  When 
well  greened,  drop  into  icewater ;  when  perfectly  cold,  wipe,  and 
with  a  small  knife  slit  down  one  side  ;  dig  out  the  seeds  and  stuff 
with  a  mixture  of  chopped  citron  and  seedless  raisins.  Sew  up 
the  incisions  with  a  fine  thread,  weigh  them,  and  make  a  S}Tup,  al- 
lowing 1  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  cucumbers,  and  a  pint 
of  water ;  heat  to  a  lively  boil,  skim  and  drop  in  the  cucumbers  ; 
simmer  half  an  hour ;  take  out  and  spread  on  a  dish  in  the  sun, 
boil  down  the  syrup  with  a  few  slices  of  ginger-root ;  when  thick 


FRUIT  SAUCE.  157 

put  in  the  cucumbers  again  ;  simmer  5  minutes,  and  put  in  glass 
jars,  tying  them  up  when  cold. 

WATERMELON  PRESERVE. 

Pare  off  the  outside  green  rind,  cut  in  pieces  2  inches  long, 
weigh,  throw  into  cold  water,  skim  out,  add  1  heaping  teaspoon 
each  of  salt  and  pulverized  alum  to  2  gallons  of  rinds,  let  stand 
until  the  salt  and  alum  dissolve,  fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water,  and 
place  on  top  of  the  stove,  where  it  will  slowly  come  to  the  boiling 
point,  covering  with  a  large  plate  to  keep  under  the  rinds ;  bc^il 
until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork,  drain  them  from  the 
water,  and  put  into  a  syrup  previously  prepared  as  follows  :  Bruise 
and  tie  in  a  muslin  bag  4  ounces  ginger-root,  and  boil  in  2  or  3 
pints  of  water  until  it  is  strongly  flavored.  At  the  same  time  boil 
in  a  little  water  until  tender,  in  another  pan,  3  or  4  sliced  lemons  ; 
allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind,  dis- 
solve the  sugar  in  the  water  in  which  lemons  and  ginger  have  been 
boiled,  having  first  strained  it,  adding  more  hot  water  if  necessary  ; 
add  the  rinds  and  slices  of  lemon  to  this  and  boil  slowly  half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Citrons  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  by  paring,  coring  and  slicing,  or  cutting  into  fanciful  shapes 
with  tin  cutters  made  for  the  purpose. 

FRUIT  SAUCES. 

These  are  made  from  fresh  or  dried  fruits,  and  are  delicious  or 
abominable,  according  to  the  way  in  which  they  are  prepared. 

The  most  desirable  utensils  for  the  slow,  steady  cooking  neces- 
sary to  produce  the  best  results,  are  pipkins  of  potter}',  or  stone- 
ware. Handled  carefully  the}^  will  last  a  long  time.  The  best  of 
them  are  made  from  the  same  material  used  for  fire  brick,  and  will 
last  as  long  as  a  porcelain-lined  kettle.  Pipkins  of  soft,  unglazed 
earthenware  are  much  less  expensive  than  the  hard  ones,  but  they 
cannot  be  placed  on  the  hottest  part  of  the  stove  without  danger  of 
cracking.  They  can  be  used  to  cook  stewed  fruits  in  the  oven  for 
a  long  time,  and  a  two-quart  pipkin  costs  but  ten  cents.  The 
unglazed  pipkin  ordinarily  comes  with  covers,  but  a  plate  or  tin 
cover  must  be  used  with  the  other  kind. 

Apples,  of  any  tart  variety,  and  pears,  are  finer  flavored,  and 


158  FRUIT  SAUCE. 

keep  better  form  when  cooked  in  a  pipkin  in  an  oven  than  in  any 
other  way.  The  apples,  if  large,  should  be  quartered  as  well  as 
pared,  and  to  a  two-quart  pipkin  nearly  full  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
and  one  cup  of  water.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour.  Test 
with  a  straw,  and  if  tender  enough  to  be  pierced,  and  clear,  they 
are  done,  and  their  shape  should  be  perfect.  If  pears  are  very 
sweet,  add  less  sugar ;  the}^  may  need  cooking  longer  than  apples. 

Since  canned  fruit  has  become  so  generally  used,  it  is  to  be  re- 
gretted that  much  less  attention  has  been  paid  to  drying  fruit, 
since  the  flavor  of  many  fruits  is  better  preserved  b}''  drying  than 
in  any  other  way.  All  fruit  for  drying  must  be  perfect,  of  the 
best  quality,  and  thoroughly  ripe.  When  dry,  put  up  in  jars  and 
cover  closely,  or  in  paper  bags.  Paper  sacks,  or  a  barrel  or  box 
lined  with  paper,  are  secure  against  moths.  The  secret  of  keeping 
dried  fruit  is  to  exclude  the  light,  and  to  keep  in  a  dry  and  cool 
place. 

To  stew  dried  fruits :  Wash  the  fruit  carefully,  put  in  a  pipkin, 
or  covered  earthenware  dish,  and  barel}^  cover  with  cold  water. 
Let  the  fruit  soak  in  a  cool  place  several  hours,  or  over  night.  In 
the  morning  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  come  slowly  to  the  boil- 
ing point.  When  this  is  reached  put  the  pipkin  where  the  fruit 
will  merely  simmer  three  or  four  hours.  It  must  be  covered  all 
the  time.  An  hour  before  it  is  taken  up,  add  to  about  half  a 
pound  of  fruit  a  cup  of  sugar.  If  there  is  too  much  liquid,  set 
the  jar  where  the  heat  will  be  suflScient  to  slowly  boil  down  the 
juice  to  the  desired  quantity,  or  till  its  contents  become  a  rich 
marmalade.      If  properly  cooked  no  flavoring  is  needed. 

Prunes  are  delicious  cooked  in  the  foregoing  fashion,  and  the 
little  acid  prunella  is  exceedingly  good.  Prunellas,  however,  re- 
quire much  more  sugar  than  prunes.  There  is  an  acid  flavor  about 
them  which  is  delicious  in  the  spring,  when  the  appetite  flags  and 
sweet  things  are  cloying  to  the  taste. 

APPLE  SAUCE 1. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  in  quarters  apples  that  do  not  come  to  pieces 
easily,  and  put  on  to  stew  in  cold  water  with  plenty  of  sugar. 
Clover  close,  and  stew  1  hour  or  more.     The  addition  of  the  sugar 


FRUIT   SAUCE.  159 

at  first  preserves  the  pieces  whole.     If  preferred  soft,  put  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  the  sugar. 

Or,  make  a  rich  syrup,  and  when  it  boils  drop  in  the  halves  of 
firm,  round  apples  sufficient  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Stew 
slowl}^,  and  when  the  pieces  are  tender,  remove  to  a  dish,  adding 
fresh  pieces  if  any  are  left.  If  much  syrup  remains  boil  down  to 
the  amount  needed,  pour  over  the  apples,  and  serve  cold. 

APPLE  SAUCE — 2. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  tart  apples,  and  fill  a  pudding  dish  with 
alternate  layers  of  apples  and  sugar ;  pour  on  a  little  water,  cover 
closely,  and  cook  them  in  the  oven  or  over  a  slow  fire.  Or,  pare, 
core  and  slice  4  large,  tart  apples,  cook  with  a  very  little  water, 
and  when  tender  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  extract  of  winter- 
green. 

DRIED-APPLE    SAUCE 1. 

Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  1  quart  of  washed  dried  apples,  with 
twice  their  bulk  of  water.  Soak  them  10  or  12  hours,  add  sugar 
to  taste,  and  stew  soft.     Flavor  with  orange,  lemon,  or  spices. 

DRIED-APPLE    SAUCE — 2. 

Look  over,  wash  thoroughly  in  clean,  warm  water ;  drain,  cover 
with  cold  soft  water,  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  cook  slowly 
4  or  5  hours,  mash  fine,  sift,  sweeten,  and  season  with  cinnamon. 
Never  add  sugar  until  a  short  time  before  removing  from  the 
stove,  otherwise  the  fruit  will  be  toughened  and  hardened.  Follow 
the  same  directions  in  preparing  dried  peaches,  only  do  not  mash, 
or  season  highly.  Cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle  without  stirring.  A 
few  raisins  improve  both  apple  and  peach  sauce. 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  cranberries.  Add  half  a  cup  of  water 
to  1  quart  of  berries.  Cover,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire.  Stir  fre- 
quently, and  mash  the  fruit.  When  all  are  mashed,  and  the  pulp 
smooth,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  suojar  to  taste.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  and  pour  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water.  Or,  put  through 
a  coarse  sieve  before  filling  the  mould. 

GREEN  CURRANT  SAUCE. 

Stem  them  carefully,  wash,  and  cook  in  a  very  little  water,  as 
they  are  quite  juicy.  When  they  begin  to  boil,  add  sugar  gener- 
ously, and  cook  5  minutes  longer.     Serve  cold. 


160  FRUIT. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

AMBROSIA. 

6  sweet  oranges,  1  grated  pineapple, 

Powdered  sugar,  1  grated  cocoanut. 

Peel,  slice  and  seed  the  oranges,  taking  out  as  much  of  the  core 

as  possible,  pare  and  remove  the  eyes  from  the  pineapple  before 

grating,  and  fill  a  dish  with  alternated  layers  of  orange,  pineapple 

and  cocoanut,  sprinkling  sugar  over  each.      Or,  use  6  oranges,  6 

lemons  and  2  cocoanuts,  or  only  oranges  and  cocoanuts. 

BAKED  APPLES 1. 

Cut  out  the  blossom  and  stem  ends  of  tart  apples,  fill  with  sugar, 
bake  till  soft,  and  serve  warm  or  cold.  Or,  pare  and  core  tart 
apples ;  lay  them  in  an  earthen  dish  with  a  very  little  water.  Fill 
the  cavity  of  each  apple  with  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter,  a  slice  of  lemon 
or  a  sprinkling  of  cinnamon.  Cover  and  bake  slowly  1  hour. 
Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  Use  1  cup  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  cup  water,  to  3  pints  apples.  If  sweet  apples  are 
used,  bake  twice  as  long,  and  omit  the  cinnamon,  using  half  the 
quantity  of  sugar. 

BAKED  APPLES 2. 

Wash  and  prick  the  skins  of  nice,  sweet  apples.  Place  in  a  pan 
with  a  very  little  water.  B^  ke  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  bast- 
ing with  the  juice  2  or  3  tines.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar  15 
minutes  before  taking  from  the  oven.  Let  them  remain  covered 
until  cold,  and  serve  with  cream. 

BAKED  APPLES,  PEACHES  OR  PEARS. 

Wipe  the  fruit,  and  put  into  a  jar  with  sugar  between  the  layers, 
covering  them  with  cold  water.  Bake  3  or  4  hours  closely  cov- 
ered in  a  slow  oven.  Add  half  the  quantity  of  water  and  sugar  to 
sweet  apples.  If  the  pears  are  large  bake  5  or  6  hours,  and  they 
may  be  flavored  with  stick  cinnamon,  or  lemons  cut  in  slices,  or 
both.     Pare  peaches  before  baking  them. 

APPLE  COMPOTE 1. 

Select  apples  that  will  cook  well  without  breaking ;  pare,  core, 
and  cook  till  three-fourths  done  in  a  S3'rup  made  with  1  pound 
sugar  and  1  pint  water.  Skim  out  of  the  syrup  and  put  in  a  hot 
oven  for  a  few  minutes ;  boil  the  syrup  while  the  apples  are  in  the 


FRUIT.  161 

oven ;  then  dip  each  apple  in  the  syrup,  place  in  a  nice  dish,  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Cover  with  a  meringue  and  brown 
slightly.     Or,  serve  cold,  with  cream  or  custard. 

APPLE  COMPOTE 2. 

1  pound  pared  and  cored  apples,  }i  box  gelatine, 

%  pound  sugar,  Whipped  cream. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  with  enough  water  to  dissolve  it. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  until  clear  but 
whole.  Remove  from  the  fire  to  a  glass  bowl.  Have  the  gelatine 
ready,  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  stir  at  once  into  the  hot 
sjTup,  and  strain  it  over  the  apples.  When  cold,  heap  whipped 
cream  over  it.  Sliced  lemons  may  be  added  to  the  syrup,  and  a 
slice  of  the  lemon  served  on  each  apple. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Quarter  and  core  apples  without  paring ;  heat  the  frying  pan  with 
butter  in  it  and  lay  the  apples  in  the  pan,  skin  side  down,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  sugar,  and,  when  nearly  done,  turn  and  brown  thor- 
oughly. Or,  cut  in  slices  across  the  core,  and  fry  like  pancakes, 
turning  when  brown.     Serve  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  them. 

ICED   APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  12  large  apples,  fill  with  sugar  and  a  little  butter 
and  nutmeg  ;  bake  until  nearly  done,  let  cool,  and  remove  to  an- 
other plate,  if  it  can  be  done  without  breaking  them  ;  if  not,  pour 
off  the  juice,  cover  them  with  icing,  and  brown  lightly.  Serve  with 
cream. 

JELLIED  APPLES. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  8  sour  apples,  and  put  them  in  layers  into 
an  earthen  baking  dish,  with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Allow 
at  least  1  large  cup  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  water  to  the  apples. 
Cover  with  a  buttered  plate  and  bake  very  slowly  2  or  3  hours. 
Let  it  stand  until  cold.  When  turned  out  it  should  be  a  firm  mass, 
with  the  red  slices  showing  through  the  clear  jelly. 

FRIED    BANANAS. 

Peel  and  slice  lengthwise,  fry  in  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
«»erve.  The  bananas  must  be  ripe,  but  firm,  and  the  red  variety  is 
preferable. 


IGE  GREAM 
AND  ICES. 


THIS  "perfection  of  summer  refreshment"  is  peculiarly  an 
American  delicacy,  though  attainable  in  some  form  all  over 
Europe. 

The  two  divisions  of  ice  cream  are  the  American,  or  Philadel- 
phian,  and  Neapolitan ;  the  former  is  more  of  a  cream,  the  latter 
partakes  of  the  nature  of  a  custard. 

The  essentials  for  making  good  ice  cream  are  the  best  cream, 
ripe,  juic}^  fruit,  when  fruit  is  used,  and  granulated  sugar.  What 
is  called  "double"  cream,  or  that  skimmed  from  milk  after  stand- 
ing twenty  hours,  should  be  used,  as  it  whips  without  any  waste. 
Cream  from  milk  standing  one-half  the  time  is  called  "single," 
and  is  preferable  for  coffee. 

Milk  is  frequently  used  in  cheaper  or  fancy  creams  with  eggs, 
cornstarch,  arrow-root  or  gelatine.  A  difference  of  opinion  exists 
as  to  heating  the  cream,  some  claiming  that  the  raw  cream  has  a 
harsh  taste,  is  more  likely  to  turn,  and  does  not  freeze  smoothly. 
Add  the  flavoring  after  the  first  freezing.  As  freezing  increases 
the  bulk  of  the  composition,  do  not  have  the  freezer  more  than 
three-quarters  full. 

When  eggs  are  to  be  substituted  for  cream,  increase  ine  amount 
of  sugar  used,  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  cup  to  six  eggs.  Too 
much  sugar  hinders  freezing.  The  eggs  must  be  perfectly  fresh  or 
the  cream  is  injured.  Add  a  little  salt  or  grated  lemon  peel  to 
the  milk  to  correct  its  flat  taste.  Never  cook  fruit  flavors  with 
cream.  To  avoid  acidity  or  a  fermented  taste,  use  onl}?-  perfect, 
ripe,  fresh  fruit.  The  genuine  flavors,  though  expensive,  are  eco- 
nomical, as  it  requires  very  little  to  be  effective. 

General  directions  for  freezing  :  Use  the  best  freezer,  and  have 
all  things  in  readiness.  Allow  ten  pounds  of  ice  and  two  quarts 
of  rock  salt  to  a  gallon  freezer.     Put  the  ice  in  a  coffee  sack  and 

162 


ICE  CREAM.  163 

pound  very  fine  for  the  first  freezing.  Set  the  cylinder  in  the  tub, 
and  pour  in  the  cream,  which  should  be  very  cold.  Cover,  and 
turn  the  crank  to  see  if  it  works  right.  Put  in  ice  to  the  depth  of 
three  inches,  then  one  inch  of  salt,  and  fill  the  tub  with  alternate 
layers,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  ice.  Turn  the  crank  slowly  and 
steadily,  but  do  not  freeze  the  cream  too  fast.  In  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  unscrew  the  crank,  wipe  off  the  cover,  and  remove  the 
dasher.  Scrape  down  the  cream  from  the  sides  with  a  broad 
knife,  a  wooden  one  is  best,  and  beat  hard  several  minutes.  This 
makes  the  cream  smooth.  Replace  the  cover,  plug  the  dasher 
hole,  taking  great  care  that  no  salt  creeps  in.  Drain  off  the  water 
and  repack  with  coarser  ice  and  salt.  Cover  with  a  thick  piece  of 
carpet  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Or,  pack  in  moulds,  and 
place  in  pails  filled  with  layers  of  salt  and  ice.  Cover  and  set 
away.  Wrap  a  hot  cloth  around  the  mould  for  a  few  moments 
and  the  cream  will  turn  out  readily.  Should  the  ice  in  the  tub 
melt  rapidly  while  freezing,  drain  off  the  water,  add  more  ice  and 
salt,  see  that  it  is  packed  solidly,  and  continue  the  work  of  freez- 
ing. If  any  cream  or  ice  is  left  in  the  freezer,  pour  it  out  into 
porcelain-lined  pans,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  to  use  again. 

Great  care  should  be  used  in  keeping  the  freezer  sweet  and 
clean. 

ICE  CREAM — 1. 
t  quarts  cream,  1  pound  sugar, 

Flavoring. 
This  is  the  regular  proportion  for  pure  ice  cream,  and  all  creams 
made  on  this  basis,  without  milk  or  eggs,  are  called  Philadelphia 
creams.  It  may  be  frozen  without  heating,  or  the  cream  may  be 
heated  in  a  double  boiler.  Sift  in  the  sugar  when  the  water  boils. 
Cool  and  freeze,  add  the  flavoring  just  before  freezing  and  pack- 
ing. In  all  the  recipes,  follow  the  general  directions  for  freezing 
and  packing,  unless  others  are  given. 

ICE  CREAM — 2 

J.  pint  cream,  %  pound  sugar, 

1  pint  milk,  3  eggs, 

Flavoring. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the  sugar  beaten  with  the  eggs,  or 

the  yolks  of  eggs  and  1  white.     Beat  thoroughly  together,  strain, 


164  ICE   CREAM. 

add  the  cream,  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
Cool,  flavor  and  freeze.  Or,  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  table- 
spoon cornstarch  or  arrow-root  with  the  sugar,  and  add  to  the 
milk.  Strain  and  cook.  When  smoothly  thickened,  remove  and 
cool.  Whip  the  whites,  beat  into  the  cream,  and  add  to  the  com- 
position, with  the  flavoring,  when  it  is  ready  to  freeze.  This  recipe 
requires  more  flavoring  than  pure  cream. 

ICE  CREAM — 3. 

1  pint  milk,  1  saltspoon  salt, 

1  quart  cream,  1  tablespoon  flavoring, 

3  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

2  eggs. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs,  flour,  and  1 
cup  of  sugar  together  till  light,  and  then  turn  into  the  milk.  Stir 
constantly  till  thickened,  and  then  occasionally.  Cook  20  min- 
utes. When  cold  add  the  second  cup  of  sugar,  the  cream  and  the 
flavoring,  strain  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

ICE  CREAM  WITHOUT  A  FREEZER. 

1  quart  milk,  13^  pounds  sugar, 

13^  quarts  cream,  8  eggs. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  above  ingredients,  according  to  directions 
for  Custard  Ice  Cream,  adding  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  the 
cream  and  vanilla  just  before  freezing.  Chill  the  mixture,  pour 
into  a  pail  with  a  tightly-fitting  cover,  and  place  on  a  flat  block  of 
ice  2  inches  thick  on  the  bottom  of  the  packing  pail  or  tub.  Pack 
in  pounded  ice  and  salt,  ice  2  parts,  salt  1  part.  Beat  the  cream 
in  the  freezer  5  minutes.  Put  on  the  top,  cover  with  thick  cloths 
and  turn  steadily  until  the  water  begins  to  rise.  Uncover,  scrape 
the  cream  thoroughly  from  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pail  and 
beat  until  the  custard  is  a  smooth,  half-frozen  paste.  Cover,  drain 
off  the  brine,  fill  up  the  tub  with  ice  and  salt,  and  repeat  the 
former  process.  Continue  in  this  way  until  the  cream  is  frozen. 
At  the  last  opening  see  that  the  cream  is  higher  in  the  center  than 
at  the  sides.  Put  on  the  cover,  ice,  salt,  and  an  old  thick 
blanket,  and  leave  it  some  hours,  replenishing  with  ice  and  salt, 
and  draining  off  the  water  when  necessary.  All  creams  frozen  in 
this  manner  should  be  partly  custard. 


ICE  CREAM.  165 

BANANA    ICE    CREAM. 

3  quarts  cream,  1}4  pounds  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  gelatine,  6  large  bananas, 

Lemon  juice. 

Heat  1  quart  of  cream,  add  the  sugar,  and  gelatine ;    stir  till 

dissolved,  and  strain.     When  cool  stir  in  the  bananas,  thoroughly 

mashed  or  chopped  fine,  and  the  lemon  juice,  then  freeze.     Or, 

substitute  1  quart  of  milk  and  4  eggs  for  1  quart  of  cream,  cook 

the  custard  till  it  thickens  and  proceed  as  with  full  cream  recipe. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM. 

3  quarts  cream,  2  ounces  macaroons, 

1  pound  sugar,  2  ounces  kisses, 

4  lady  fingers,  3  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Roll  very  fine,  or  crush  and  sift  through  a  sieve,  the  kisses,  lady 
fingers  and  macaroons.  Heat  1  quart  of  cream  in  a  double  boiler, 
then  add  the  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  cool.  Add  the  rest  of  the  cream,  put  into  the  freezer,  and 
when  nearly  stiff,  stir  in  the  sifted  cakes  and  vanilla.  A  richer 
coloring  is  given  by  adding  2  teaspoons  caramel.  Beat  until 
smooth,  and  follow  directions  for  freezing  and  packing.  The 
cream  must  stand  at  least  2  hours  before  using.  This  makes  one 
gallon  of  cream  when  frozen. 

BOSTON  BROWN-BREAD  ICE  CREAM. 

2  quarts  cream,  13^  pounds  sugar, 

10  eggs,  ^  pound  brown  bread. 

Roll  and  sift  the  dried  toasted  bread.  Put  1  quart  of  cream 
into  a  custard-kettle,  heat,  and  add  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  eggs. 
Strain,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens  smoothly.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  remainder  of  the  cream,  cool  and  freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen  beat  in  the  powdered  bread,  and  finish  accord- 
ing to  general  directions.  The  eggs  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar 
may  be  omitted.  Biscuit  Cream  is  made  by  substituting  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  stale  sponge  cake  for  the  bread. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Make  a  foundation  as  for  Ice  Cream — 3.  Put  1  scant  cup  of 
sugar  into  a  frying  pan  and  stir  over  the  fire  till  the  sugar  turns 
liquid  and  brown,  add  this  to  the  hot  custard,  in  place  of  1  cup  of 
sugar. 


166  ICE    CREAM. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 1. 

2  quarts  cream,  IX  pounds  sugar, 

1  pint  milk,  yi  pound  grated  chocolate, 

Vanilla. 
Use  the  unsweetened  chocolate.  Heat  the  milk  and  make  a 
smooth  paste  with  the  chocolate.  Add  the  sugar,  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  cream,  flavor,  and  freeze  according  to  directions.  Or, 
scrape  2  ounces  of  Baker's  chocolate,  and  cook  till  smooth  and 
glossy  with  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  2  of  boiling  water.  Add  this 
to  the  custard  or  cream  while  in  the  double  boiler.  When  cold, 
add  1  tablespoon  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 2. 

1  quart  rich  cream,  3  eggs, 

1  pint  new  milk,  1  pound  sugar, 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the  sugar,  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  the 
chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Beat  well,  place  over 
the  fire  and  heat  until  it  thickens  a  little,  stirring  constantly, 
strain,  add  a  tablespoon  thin,  dissolved  gelatine,  and,  when  cold, 
place  in  the  freezer  ;  when  half  frozen  add  the  cream,  well  whipped, 
and  finish. 

To  make  a  block  of  chocolate  and  vanilla :  freeze  the  creams 
separately,  and  before  packing  fill  a  mould  with  two  or  three  layers 
of  cream  according  to  taste.  Pack  the  mould  in  ice  and  salt,  and 
let  it  stand  at  least  2  hours. 

COFFEE    ICE    CREAM 1. 

2  quarts  cream,  1  pound  sugar, 

yi  pound  ground  Java  and  Mocha  coffee. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  1  quart  of  cream  and  the  coffee.     Let 
it  stand  15  minutes  in  hot,  not  boiling  water,  strain  and  squeeze 
to  obtain  the  strength,  and  stir  in  the  sugar.     When  cold,  add  the 
rest  of  the  cream  and  freeze. 

COFFEE    ICE    CREAM 2. 

1  quart  cream,  \%  pounds  sugar, 

1  quart  milk,  8  eggs, 

1  quart  strong,  clear,  hot  coffee. 
Heat  the  milk,  and  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  eggs,  ( 8  yolks  and 
2  whites  may  be  used)  strain,  add  coffee,  cook  till  thick,  and  cool. 
Add  the  cream  just  before  freezing. 


ICE   CREAM. 


167 


SHERBETS. 

1  pint  fruit  juice,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  pint  water,  3  eggs,  whites. 

These  proportions  are  good  for  all  varieties  of  fruit  juices,  and 
man}'-  nice  combinations  may  be  made.  Currant  sherbet  is  im- 
proved by  adding  raspberries  in  equal  proportions.  In  lemon  or 
orange  sherbets  soak  the  grated  rinds  of  the  fruit  10  minutes,  in 
the  boiling  water  to  be  used  for  syrup,  and  strain  over  the  sugar. 
Prepare  as  for  ices,  and  freeze  according  to  directions.  Ices  or 
sherbets  are  used  in  layers  with  ice  cream  in  moulds,  and  are  con- 
sidered excellent.  In  making  orange  sherbet  the  lemons  may  be 
omitted 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

1  quart  grated  pineapple  pulp,  IX  pounds  sugar, 

2  lemons,  juice,  1  pint  water, 

2  eggs,  whites. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  if  not  clear,  and 
cool.     Add  to  the  pulp  when  cold,  stir  in  the  lemon  juice,  and 
freeze.      Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  thoroughly,  and  add  to  the  Jce 
when  nearly  frozen.     The  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted. 


THE  flesh  of  animals,  poultry  and  game  goes  under  the  general 
term  meat.  In  some  localities  the  steak  of  large  fish  is 
erroneously  classed  under  that  name.  Meats  are  made  up  of  sev- 
eral substances — fibrine,  gelatine,  fat,  albumen,andthe  juice  of  flesh. 
The  real  color  of  fibrine  is  white,  taking  its  pinkish  tinge  from 
the  blood.  This  goes  to  form  the  fiber  and  muscle  of  meat,  and  is 
made  hard  and  tough  by  hard  boiling,  but  is  soluble  in  a  moderate  heat. 
Therefore,  if  meat  has  strong  and  tough  fiber,  put  it  on  in  boiling 
water,  place  the  kettle  where  it  will  simmer,  and  boil  gently  for  a 
long  time.  In  this  way  the  toughest  meat  may  be  made  tender 
and  palatable.  Plunging  into  boiling  water  at  first  closes  the  tis- 
sues and  keeps  in  the  juices  of  the  meat.  Grelatine  is  found  in  the 
bones,  tendons,  gristle,  skin,  sinews,  and  about  the  joints.  Soak 
the  parts  from  which  it  is  to  be  removed  in  cold  water,  and  then 
boil  very  gently  for  five  or  six  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Remove  all  bones  and  meat  by  straining ;  set  where  it  will  cool, 
when  the  fat  will  be  found  at  the  top,  and  the  gelatine  in  a  jelly- 
like mass  at  the  bottom.  This  is  useful  for  preparing  jellied 
meats,  sauces,  sausages,  meat  loaves,  meat  cheeses,  and  pressed 
meats  of  every  kind ;  or,  warmed  up  properly  with  a  spoonful  of 
rice,  a  little  milk,  salted  and  flavored,  it  is  good  food  for  invalids. 

The  fat  of  meats  gives  warmth,  and  is  an  appropriate  food  for 
a  cold  climate.  In  temperate  regions  it  should  be  used  sparingly. 
The  fat  that  comes  out  when  cooking  meat  should  be  saved  by 
itself.  That  of  pork  makes  lard,  and  by  careful  and  sufficient  cook- 
ing may  be  kept  any  length  of  time.  That  from  beef  is  tallow, 
and  may  be  used  in  small  quantities  with  lard  nicely  rendered,  as 
drippings. 

The  juices  of  meat  may  be  obtained  by  chopping  the  raw  meat, 
inclosing  in  a  jar,  placing  in  cold  water,  and  gradually  raising  the 
temperature  until  the  water  gently  boils.     This  juice  is  used  in 

168 


MEATS.  ;J^g9 

making  teas  and  in  extracts  of  meat.  When  meats  are  cooked  for 
the  meat  itself,  they  should  be  so  quickly  heated  at  first  as  to 
close  the  tissues,  and  keep  in  the  juices  ;  but  when  used  for  soups 
or  teas  they  may  be  very  gradually  heated  to  bring  out  the  juices. 

Young  animals  are  tender,  and  do  not  need  so  much  cooking, 
but  their  meat  is  not  as  nutritious  as  that  of  older  ones. 

Meats  are  always  in  season,  though  it  were  better  to  use  the  fat- 
ter meats  in  cooler,  and  leaner  meats  in  warmer  weather.  Do  not 
put  meat  directly  upon  the  ice,  or  allow  it  to  lie  wrapped  in 
butcher's  paper.  Take  care  of  it  when  it  first  comes  to  the  house, 
and,  if  there  is  a  bloody  piece  about  it,  remove  it.  Lay  it  on  a  cool 
dish,  and  if  to  be  kept  some  time,  lay  bits  of  charcoal  about  it,  and 
place  over  ice  in  a  cooler,  as  recommended  for  fish.  Meat  may  be 
kept  a  long  time  in  cold  weather  if  care  is  taken,  and  it  is  much 
less  expensive  to  buy  a  large  quantity  than  to  buy  by  the  piece. 

Broiling  is  the  most  wholesome  method  of  cooking  meats,  and 
very  acceptable  to  invalids.  Tough  steak  is  made  more  tender  by 
pounding  or  hacking  with  a  dull  knife,  but  some  of  the  juices  are 
lost  by  the  operation;  cutting  it  across  in  small  squares  with  a 
sharp  knife  on  both  sides  is  best.  Tough  meats  are  improved  by 
lying  two  hours  on  a  dish  containing  three  or  four  tablespoons 
each  of  vinegar  and  salad  oil,  or  butter,  a  little  pepper,  but  no  salt, 
and  turning  every  twenty  minutes.  The  action  of  the  oil  and  vine- 
gar softens  the  fibers  without  extracting  their  juices.  Trim  off  all 
superfluous  fat,  but  never  wash  a  freshly  cut  steak.  Never  salt  or 
pepper  steak  or  chops  before  or  while  cooking,  but  if  very  lean,  dip 
in  melted  butter.  Turn  steaks  with  a  small  pair  of  tongs,  as 
piercing  with  a  fork  frees  the  meat  juices. 

Frying  is  properly  cooking  in  fat  enough  to  cover  the  article, 
and  when  the  fat  is  hot,  and  properly  managed,  the  food  is  crisped 
at  the  surface,  and  does  not  absorb  the  fat.  The  process  of  cook- 
ing in  just  enough  fat  to  prevent  sticking  has  not  yet  been  named 
in  English,  and  is  sauteing,  but  is  popularly  known  as  frying,  and 
ought  to  be  banished  from  all  civilized  kitchens.  The  secret  of 
success  in  frying  is  what  the  French  call  the  "surprise."  The 
fire  must  be  hot  enough  to  sear  the  surface  and  make  it  impervious 
to  the  fat,  and  at  the  same  time  seal  up  the  rich  juices.     As  soon 


170  MEATS. 

4$  the  inojit  is  browned  by  this  sudtion  .'ipi^liontion  of  hcjit,  tlie 
pjin  iiiMV  bo  niovod  to  a  cooler  place  on  the  ntove,  that  the  process 
may  be  linishcii  more  slowly. 

BEEF. 

Reef  should  have  a  good  outside  hiyer  of  fat,  and  be  well  mar- 
bled witli  fat.  The  llesh  should  also  be  llrm,  of  a  bright  red  color, 
and  the  suet  dry,  ami  easily  broken  with  the  lingers.  In  buving 
a  (piarter  of  beef  for  immediate  use,  give  the  preference  to  a  Iiind 
(piarter.  The  fore  (puirter  is  cheai)er,  and  contains,  besides  tho 
roasting  and  boiling  pieces,  ipiilt'  a  good  many  pieces  that  nuiy  be 
corned,  and  kept;  but  it  has  less  steak  and  thick  pieces  than  tho 
hind  (piarter.  If  a  housekeeper  has  a  butcher  on  whom  to  rel}^ 
it  wouUl  be  an  invaluable  lesson  to  go  to  his  shoj),  observe  tho 
meat  as  it  is  cut  and  Si)rtctl,  learn  the  dilferent  parts,  and  how  to 
distinguish  between  them.  Better  pay  him  for  the  teaching,  than 
to  pay  for  sirloin,  and  get  round  steak.  The  tirst  cut  of  sirloin  is 
tho  end  of  the  muscle,  and  not  apt  to  be  very  tender.  The  second 
cut  contains  more  of  the  tenderloin  and  is  considered  the  best  steak. 
The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin,  tenderloin,  and  rib 
pieces.  The  sixth,  seventh  and  eighth  ribs  are  the  best.  It  is  well 
in  a  rib  roast  to  have  the  bones  t.jUven  out,  and  tlio  roast  rolled  and 
tied  b}'  the  butcher.  IMcat  that  is  desired  rare  should  have  a  very 
hot  oven  at  llrst,  and  small  pieces  rcipiire  a  hot  oven  to  prevent  dry- 
ing. For  a  large  ran*  roast  allow  tiMi  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  a 
longer  time  for  one  better  done.  The  (irst  strong  heat  of  the  oven 
sears  the  meat,  and  keeps  the  juices  inside;  by  lessening  the  heat 
afterward  the  inside  is  ctH)ked  without  any  burning  of  the  surface. 
A  double  iron  pan  is  particularly  nicc^  for  all  roasting  purposes. 

The  gravy  of  roast  meats  is  found  in  the  dripping  pan,  under 
the  fat,  and  should  be  poured  carefully  olf  and  saved.  Tf  no 
water  has  been  used  in  roasting,  stoi'k  will  need  to  be  added,  as 
onl}'  the  fat  will  be  fountl  in  the  i)an  ;  but  if  water  has  been  used, 
it  will  be  meat-flavored  enough  to  add  water  to  make  a  sulllcient 
quantity.  If  not  brown  enough,  brown  tlour  in  tlie  oven  and  rub 
sm(H)th  with  a.  little  butter,  add  to  the  gravy,  and  boil  up  slowly. 
Add  salt  and  i)opper.      If  it.  should  prove  lumpy,  for  any  reason, 


MEATS.  171 

it  should  be  strained  through  a  wire  strainer.  Twice  the  quantity 
of  gravy  needed  should  be  made,  as  it  is  most  useful  in  warming 
over  the  cold  meats.  Never  serve  a  white  gravy,  however  well 
made,  with  roast  meat,  nor  should  it  be  so  brown  as  to  have  a 
burned  taste. 

BEEFSTEAK   BROILED — 1. 

Broiling  steak  is  the  very  last  thing  to  be  done  in  getting  break- 
fast or  dinner ;  every  other  dish  should  be  ready  for  the  table,  so 
that  this  may  have  undivided  attention.  A  steel  gridiron  with 
slender  bars  is  best,  as  the  common  broad,  flat  iron  bars  fry  and 
scorch  the  meat,  imparting  a  disagreeable  flavor.  The  dampers 
which  shut  off  the  draft  to  the  chimney  should  be  thrown  open  to 
take  the  flames  in  that  direction.  Lift  the  broiler  from  the  fire 
before  removing  the  lid,  as  the  smoke  and  flames  rush  out  past  the 
meat  and  smoke  it.  Place  the  steak  on  a  well-greased  gridiron, 
turn  often  so  that  the  outside  may  be  seared  at  once  ;  when  done, 
which  will  require  from  5  to  10  minutes,  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  a  hot  platter, 
and  serve  at  once.  If  the  fat  drips  on  the  coals  below,  the  blaze 
may  be  extinguished  by  sprinkling  with  salt ;  withdraw  the  grid- 
iron to  prevent  the  steak  from  acquiring  a  smoky  flavor.  Always 
have  a  brisk  fire,  whether  broiling  in  a  patent  broiler  directly  over 
the  fire  or  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  live  coals. 

Or,  lay  a  thick,  tender  steak  upon  a  well-greased  gridiron  over 
hot  coals ;  when  done  on  one  side  have  ready  the  warmed  platter 
with  a  little  butter  on  it,  lay  the  steak,  without  pressing  it,  upon 
the  platter  with  the  cooked  side  down  so  that  the  juices  which  have 
gathered  may  run  on  the  platter,  quickly  place  it  again  on  the 
gridiron,  and  cook  the  other  side.  When  done,  place  on  the  platter 
again,  spread  lightly  with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  for  a  few  moments,  but  do  not  let 
the  butter  become  oily.  Serve  on  hot  plates.  It  may  be  garnished 
with  fried  sliced  potatoes,  or  with  browned  potato  balls  the  size 
of  a  marble,  piled  at  each  end  of  the  platter. 

BEEFSTEAK  BROILED 2. 

Remove  the  fat  and  bone.  Grease  the  gridiron  with  the  fat  and 
lay  on  the  steak.     Broil  over  a  clean  fire,  turning  often.     If  liked 


172  MEATS. 

rare,  broil  fi'om  3  to  5  minutes,  or  longer  if  it  is  to  be  well  done. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  ;  add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  cover  for  a  few 
minutes  with  a  hot  cover.  This  is  for  steali  an  inch  thick.  If 
cooked  through,  a  red  juice  follows  the  fork.  If  blood  follows  of 
a  dark  red  color  the  stealv  is  i-aw.  If  tJie  steak  is  tough,  pound 
with  a  steak  pounder  or  hack  with  a  sharp  knife,  but  in  this  case 
the  outside  must  be  quickly  seared  over  or  the  juices  will  be  lost. 

BEEFSTEAK  FRIED. 

'\Yhen  the  means  to  broil  are  not  at  hand,  heat  the  frying  pan 
very  hot,  put  in  a  steak  previously  hacked,  let  it  remain  a  few 
moments,  loosen  with  a  knife  and  turn  quickl}'  several  times ;  re- 
peat this,  and  when  done  ti*ansfer  to  a  hot  platter;  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  bits  of  butter ;  pile  the  stealvs  one  on  top  of  an- 
other, and  cover  with  a  hot  platter.  This  way  of  frjing  is  both 
healthful  and  delicate.  Or,  heat  the  skillet,  ti-im  off  the  fat  from 
the  steak,  cut  in  small  bits  and  set  on  to  fry  ;  meanwhile  pound 
the  steak,  draw  the  bits  of  suet  to  one  side  and  put  in  the  steak, 
turn  quickly  several  times  so  as  to  seai*  the  outside,  take  out  on 
a  hot  platter  previously  prepared  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
well  with  floiu',  return  to  the  skillet,  repeating  the  operation  until 
the  steak  is  done ;  lay  on  a  hot  platter,  covering  with  another  one, 
and  place  where  it  will  keep  hot  while  making  the  gi'avy.  Stir  a 
tablespoon  dr}'  flour  in  the  skillet,  being  sure  to  have  the  fat  boil- 
ing hot,  brown,  free  from  lumps,  (the  bits  of  suet  may  be  left  in, 
di'awing  them  to  one  side  until  the  flour  is  browned),  pour  in  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  milk,  or  cream,  stir  well,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  serve  in  a  gi*avy  tureen.  Spread  bits  of  butter 
over  the  steak  and  send  it  to  the  table  at  once.  This  is  more 
economical,  but  not  so  wholesome  as  broiling. 

BEEFSTEAK  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Cook  the  liquor  of  half  a  pint  of  oysters  2  minutes,  skim  well, 
add  the  oysters  and  boil  2  minutes,  add  2  tablespoons  cracker, 
rolled  fine  and  smoothed  with  an  equal  amount  of  butter.  Broil  a 
nice  steak  carefull}-,  la}"  it  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  and  pour  the  03'sters  over  it.  Serve  with  nice,  brown,  but- 
tered toast  and  a  glass  of  cranbeny  jelly. 


MEATS.  173 

BEEFSTEAK  WITH  TOMATOES. 

10  tomatoes,  or  1  pound  can,  Yz  pint  beef  stock, 

1  rolled  cracker,  1  onion. 

Pare  and  stew  the  tomatoes  with  the  onion  in  the  beef  stock  1 
hour,  and  add  the  cracker,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  a  nice 
steak  carefully,  add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  lay  in  a  hot,  deep 
platter.  Pour  the  boiling  sauce  over  the  steak,  and  serve  hot, 
with  short  cakes  just  from  the  oven.  The  onion  and  cracker  may 
be  omitted  from  the  sauce. 

CORNED  BEEF,  BOILED. 

Soak  over  night  if  very  salt,  but  if  beef  is  young  and  properly 
corned  this  is  not  necessary;  pour  over  it  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it  well,  after  washing  off  the  salt.  The  rule  for  boiling 
meats  is  25  minutes  to  a  pound,  but  corned  beef  should  be  placed 
on  a  part  of  the  stove  or  range  where  it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  un- 
interruptedly from  4  to  6  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  piece. 
If  to  be  served  cold,  let  the  meat  remain  in  the  liquor  until  cold. 
Tough  beef  should  remain  in  the  liquor  until  the  next  day,  and 
be  brought  to  the  boiling  point  j  ust  before  serving.  Simmer  a  brisket 
or  plate-piece  until  the  bones  are  easily  removed,  fold  over,  form- 
ing a  square  or  oblong  piece,  place  sufficient  weight  on  top  to  press 
the  parts  closely  together,  and  set  where  it  will  become  cold.  This 
gives  a  firm,  solid  piece  to  cut  in  slices,  and  is  a  delightful  relish. 
Boil  the  liquor  down,  remove  the  fat,  season  with  pepper  or  sweet 
herbs,  and  save  it  to  pour  over  finely-minced  scraps  and  pieces  of 
beef;  press  the  meat  firmly  into  a  mould,  add  the  liquor,  and 
place  over  it  a  close  cover  with  a  weight  upon  it.  When  turned 
from  the  mould,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  celery,  and  serve 
with  fancy  pickles  or  French  mustard. 

FRESH   BEEF,  BOILED. 

Wipe  well,  and  if  rib  pieces,  the  bones  may  be  removed  and  a 
close  roll  made  by  tying  with  strong  twine.  Plunge  into  boiling 
water,  enough  to  cover  it,  skim  when  it  boils,  and  cook  very  slowly 
until  tender.  Do  not  salt  until  half  an  hour  before  it  is  cooked. 
The  rule  for  boiling  beef  is  25  minutes  to  the  pound  and  25  min- 
utes extra,  but  one  must  be  governed  by  the  age  and  quality  of 
the  beef.     After  the  beef  is  removed,  boil  the  water  quickly  to  1 


174  MEATS. 

quart  of  liquid.  Set  self-sealing  glass  jars  on  a  thick  wet  cloth, 
fill  with  the  boiling  liquor,  put  on  the  rubber,  two  if  the  can  is  old, 
and  screw  the  top  down  quickly.  Set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place, 
and  use  as  stock  for  gravy  or  soup. 

FILLET  OF  BEEF. 

Remove  all  veins  and  tough  portions,  with  most  of  the  fat.  Rub 
well  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  On  the  bottom  of  the  dripping 
pan  place  the  pieces  of  fat,  and  a  slice  or  two  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Have  a  hot  oven  and  bake  nearly  40  minutes.  Take  out  and  baste 
thoroughly.  Sift  cracker  crumbs  over  it,  and  lay  on  several  bits 
of  butter.  Return  it  to  the  oven,  brown  quickly  and  remove. 
Make  the  gravy  as  in  directions  for  brown  gravy,  and  to  a  portion 
of  it  add  fried  mushrooms,  and  serve  with  the  roast.  Garnish 
with  nasturtium  leaves  and  bloom.  A  stuflBing  may  be  made  as  for 
turkey,  and  baked  separately,  often  basted  with  the  meat  gravy. 

BEEF  HEART,   BOILED. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  beef  tongue.  To  flavor  the  heart,  or 
prepare  it  for  pressed  meat,  boil  a  half  pound  salt  pork  with  it, 
and  add  spices  and  pepper  to  taste  when  it  is  chopped.  To  make 
into  mince  pies  boil  with  the  pork  and  chop  both,  or  salt  and  boil 
alone. 

BEEF  HEART,  STUFFED. 

Take  a  beef,  sheep  or  calf's  heart,  wash  thoroughly  to  remove 
all  blood,  make  the  two  cells  into  one  by  cutting  through  the  par- 
tition with  a  long,  sharp  knife,  being  careful  not  to  cut  through  to 
the  outside ;  fill  the  cavity  with  a  stuflSng  made  as  for  roast  turkey, 
cover  with  greased  paper  or  cloth  to  secure  it  in  place,  and  bake 
2  hours  or  longer,  in  a  deep  pan  with  plenty  of  water,  basting  and 
turning  often,  as  the  upper  part  particularly  is  apt  to  get  dry. 
While  the  heart  is  roasting,  put  the  valves  or  "  deaf  ears,"  which 
must  be  cut  off  after  washing,  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  of  cold 
water  and  a  sliced  onion.  Let  simmer  slowly  1  hour;  melt  a 
tablespoon  butter,  add  a  tablespoon  flour,  then  the  strained  liquor 
from  valves,  boil  up  and  serve  as  gravy. 

BEEF    LOAF. 

One  of  the  cheapest  meats  for  breakfast  or  tea,  as  well  as  one  of 
the  nicest,  is  a  beef  loaf.     Buy  4  or  5  pounds  of  the  cheapest 


MEATS.  275 

pieces  of  beef,  such  as  neck  or  rib  pieces — those  that  are  usually 
sold  for  a  stew,  but  pieces  without  much  bone, — if  a  larger  loaf  is 
desired  a  beef's  heart  may  be  added.  Wash  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  add  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  not  too  fat.  Care  must 
be  taken  that  every  scrap  put  into  the  kettle  is  perfectly  clean  and 
untainted,  and  scraps  of  steak  or  roast  beef  may  be  added.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil  and  skim,  even  the  third  time,  if  necessary.  Put 
where  it  will  just  simmer  all  day.  Remove,  chop,  and  pick  out  all 
hard  pieces  and  bones.  Add  6  crackers  and,  a  little  at  a  time,  the 
liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  until  it  is  a  thick  mass.  It  may  not 
take  all  the  liquor.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  a  deep 
bread  tin  and  pack  the  meat  in  solidly.  Place  in  the  oven  and  let 
stay  10  minutes,  or  until  heated  through.  Set  in  a  cold  place. 
When  partly  cool  if  not  solid  enough  put  on  a  pressure.  To  serve, 
loosen  from  the  edges  of  the  pan,  hold  in  boiling  water  for  a  min- 
ute or  two,  turn  out,  and  slice  with  a  sharp  knife  from  the  end. 
If  for  breakfast,  and  potatoes  are  to  be  served,  make  a  brown 
gravy  with  the  liquor  that  may  have  been  left. 

This  recipe  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  meat  in  quantity  and  kind. 
If  the  meat  is  quite  fat,  or  contains  a  good  deal  of  gelatine,  it  may 
take  more  crackers.  If  very  lean,  as  it  would  be  if  made  wholly 
of  heart  and  the  pork,  less  crackers  should  be  used.  Other  meats, 
as  veal,  pork,  lamb,  etc.,  may  be  used  in  this  way  and  are  very 
nice.  If  liver  is  added  to  it,  first  scald  it  and  turn  the  water  off. 
Cut  it  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  the  kettle  30  minutes  before 
removing  from  the  fire. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

In  a  piece  of  the  rump,  cut  deep  openings  with  a  sharp  knife ; 
put  in  pieces  of  pork,  cut  into  dice,  previously  rolled  in  pepper, 
salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Into  an  iron  stewpan  lay  pieces  of  pork, 
sliced  onions,  slices  of  lemon,  one  or  two  carrots,  and  a  bay  leaf ; 
lay  the  meat  on  and  put  over  it  a  piece  of  bread  crust  as  large  as 
the  hand,  one-half  glass  currant  jelly,  lemon  juice,  and  afterwards 
an  equal  quantity  of  water  or  broth,  till  the  meat  is  half  covered ; 
cover  the  dish  close  and  cook  till  tender.  Then  take  it  out,  rub 
the  gravy  thoroughly  through  a  sieve,  skim  off  the  fat,  add  sour 
cream,  return  to  the  stewpan  and  cook  ten  minutes.     Instead  of 


176  MEATS. 

cream,  capers  or  sliced  cucumber  pickles  may  be  added  to  the 
gravy,  or  a  handful  of  grated  gingerbread  or  rye  bread.  The  meat 
may  also  be  laid  for  some  days  before  cooking  in  spiced  vinegar. 

RAGOUT  OF  BEEF. 

6  pounds  round,  6  cloves, 

y^  pound  salt  pork,  1  stick  cinnamon, 

6  ripe  tomatoes,  Whole  black  peppers, 

2  or  3  onions,  Yz  cup  vinegar. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  and  onions  into  a  kettle  or  pan  having  a 
closely  fitting  cover,  and  add  the  spices ;  gash  the  meat,  stuff  with 
the  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  square  bits,  place  it  on  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  pour  over  them  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  cup  of 
water ;  cover  tightly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  cook  slowly  4 
or  5  hours,  and,  when  half  done,  salt  to  taste.  When  cooked, 
take  out  the  meat,  strain  the  gravy  and  thicken  with  flour. 

BEEP  ROAST. 

Take  a  rib  piece  or  loin  roast  of  7  to  8  pounds.  Beat  it  thor- 
oughly all  over,  lay  it  in  the  roasting  dish  and  baste  it  with  melted 
butter.  Put  into  the  well-heated  oven,  and  baste  frequently 
with  its  own  fat,  which  will  make  it  brown  and  tender.  If,  when 
it  is  cooking  fast,  the  gravy  is  growing  too  brown,  turn  a  glass  of 
boiling  water  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  repeat  this  as  often 
as  the  gravy  cooks  away.  The  roast  needs  nearly  two  hours  time 
for  cooking,  and  must  be  brown  outside  but  inside  red  and  juicy. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  and  garnish 
with  sliced  lemons. 

BEEP  ROA^T  WITH  PUDDING. 

Roast  beef  as  directed ;  make  a  Yorkshire  pudding,  to  eat  with 
the  roast,  as  follows : 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 
1  pint  milk,  3  cups  flour, 

Pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs. 

Beat  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  pour  into  the  dripping  pan  under 
the  meat,  or  into  a  hot  pan  with  some  of  the  drippings  from  the 
beef  which  is  roasting,  and  bake  30  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and 
serve  on  the  platter  with  the  roast. 


MEATS.  177 

RIB  ROAST. 

Remove  the  ribs  and  backbone.  Roll  up  smoothly  and  as 
closely  as  possible,  the  butcher  will  do  this  if  asked,  wind  tightly 
with  twine,  and  roast  as  sirloin,  except  that  it  will  take  a  little 
longer  to  the  pound.  The  potatoes  may  be  browned  in  the  pan 
with  the  beef.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  in  which  a  little  parsley 
has  boiled.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  blood-beet  pickles. 

THE  RUMP  ROAST. 

Many  prefer  this  roast  to  the  other  pieces  as  it  is  cheaper,  all 
good  and  comes  in  better  shape.  It  is  excellent  cold.  Rub  well 
with  pepper  and  flour.  When  the  flour  in  the  pan  is  browned  pour 
in  a  pint  of  water,  and  baste  often.  If  a  soft  stewing  sound  comes 
from  the  oven  it  is  doing  well,  but  if  the  fat  sizzles  and  snaps 
the  water  is  out  and  the  fat  burning.  If  the  whole  rump  is  used 
carve  it  lengthwise.  Many  prefer  the  gravy  when  an  onion  or  two 
has  been  roasted  with  the  beef.     Salt  at  the  last  basting. 

SIRLOIN  OP  BEEP  ROASTED. 

Procure  8  pounds  of  the  second  cut  of  sirloin.  No  washing  is 
necessary  if  the  butcher  is  neat  in  handling  it.  Trim  off  all  un- 
sightly pieces  and  bits  of  gristle  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  wet 
cloth.  Tie  and  skewer  it  into  the  shape  to  serve  on  the  table. 
The  flank  piece  may  be  cut  off  and  left  in  the  pan  or  saved  for 
soup  or  stock.  Use  a  large  dripping  pan.  Lay  the  meat  skin  side 
down  on  a  rack,  or  three  or  four  sticks  laid  crosswise  in  the  pan. 
Rub  it  well  with  flour.  Have  a  quick  fire  to  sear  the  cut  sides  of 
the  meat,  and  when  the  flour  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  brown 
the  heat  is  great  enough  and  may  be  gradually  reduced.  Many 
add  a  pint  of  hot  water  at  this  point  to  avoid  so  much  basting. 
Baste  often  by  dipping  the  fat  and  gravy  from  the  pan  over  the 
meat.  If  the  beef  is  liked  very  rare,  an  hour  of  steady  baking 
after  it  is  seared  will  be  suflScient,  but  if  well  done,  keep  in  a  slow 
steady  heat  a  half  hour  longer.  There  is  much  danger  of  burning 
the  fat  in  the  pan  if  the  water  is  not  added  ;  it  will  need  constant 
watching,  and  great  care  must  be  given  the  fire.  When  nearly 
done  turn  and  brown  the  under  side  and  place  skin  side  up  on  the 
platter.  Carve  by  cutting  thin  slices  parallel  with  the  ribs,  and 
by  running  the  knife  down  the  backbone  to  separate  the  slices.     If 


178  MEATS. 

some  prefer  the  tenderloin,  remove  it  from  under  the  bone  and  slice 
in  the  same  manner.  Serve  with  mashed  or  browned  potatoes, 
brown  sauce  or  gravy.  The  meat  may  be  made  more  attractive  by 
a  garnish  of  celery  leaves  and  bunches  of  barberries. 

ROUND  OF  BEEF  SPICED. 

20  pounds  round,  1  ounce  cloves, 

1  quart  salt,  3  ounces  saltpetre, 

1  nutmeg,  }i  ounce  allspice. 

Rub  the  salts  and  spices  together  until  fine.  Rub  the  beef  well 
with  this  powder  after  removing  the  bone.  Put  a  part  of  the 
powder  into  a  tub  just  large  enough  to  hold  the  meat.  Lay  the 
beef  on  it  and  pour  over  it  the  rest  of  the  powder.  Rub  it  well 
every  day  for  ten  daj^s.  Wash  the  beef  and  bind  it  up  compactly 
with  a  tape  and  fill  in  all  spaces  with  pieces  of  suet.  Lay  in  a  pan 
of  convenient  size  and  drop  bits  of  suet  over  it.  Sprinkle  with  3 
ounces  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  pepper,  1  ounce  powdered  mace, 
and  add  1  pint  of  water,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Cover  closely 
and  simmer  7  or  8  hours,  adding  water  as  it  boils  dry. 

BEEF    SMOTHERED. 

Use  4  pounds  of  rump,  or  other  thick  roasting  piece.  Sear 
quickly  on  a  hot  frying  pan  or  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Put  into  a  stew- 
kettle  with  1|-  cups  of  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and  put  where 
it  will  just  boil.  Watch  that  the  water  does  not  boil  awa}^,  or  the 
meat  will  burn.  Cook  until  tender,  or  about  3  hours.  Add  salt 
15  minutes  before  taking  up.  Remove  the  meat  carefully  to  a 
hot  platter.  Add  more  water  to  the  gravy,  if  necessary,  and  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  flour  smoothed  in  bu  ^.r.  Serve  the  gravy  in 
a  boat. 


MEATS.  179 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

It  has  been  said  that  wasting  is  carried  on  so  far  and  so  exten- 
sively in  American  kitchens  that  it  will  soon  be  one  of  the  com- 
mon sciences,  also,  that  the  food  thrown  away  by  Americans  would 
feed  comfortably  the  French  people.  Granted  the  last  statement  to 
be  exaggerated,  the  fact  remains  that  the  national  habit  is  one  of 
great  prodigality  in  the  use  and  waste  of  cooked  and  uncooked 
food.     The  following  recipes  suggest  one  means  of  improvement. 

DRIED  BEEF. 

Slice  it  very  thin,  put  in  a  frying  pan  with  water  to  cover,  let  it 
just  boil,  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  a  pint  of  milk,  a  lump  of 
butter,  and  a  thickening  of  a  little  flour  and  milk ;  stir  well,  and 
just  before  serving,  add  an  egg,  stirring  it  in  quickly;  or,  chip 
very  fine,  freshen,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  6  or  8  eggs,  stir  well,  and 
serve  at  once.  Cold,  boiled  or  baked  beef  may  be  sliced  and 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  When  ends  or  thin  pieces  of  dried  beef 
become  dry  and  hard,  put  in  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  6  or  8 
hours,  and  slice  when  cold ;  or,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  and 
boil  3  or  4  hours.  Many  think  all  dried  beef  is  improved  by  this 
method. 

BEEFSTEAK  STUFFED. 

This  is  nice  for  dinner,  and  can  be  prepared  from  a  rather  poor 
flank  or  round  steak ;  pound  it  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
spread  with  a  nice  dressing,  roll  up  and  tie  closely  with  twine,  put 
in  a  kettle  with  1  quart  boiling  water,  boil  slowly  1  hour,  take  out 
and  place  in  a  dripping  pan ;  add  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled, 
baste  frequently  until  a  nice  brown,  and  make  a  gravy  of  the  drip- 
pings ;  or,  put  it  at  once  into  the  dripping  pan,  skewer  2  slices  of 
salt  pork  on  the  top,  add  a  very  little  water,  baste  frequently,  and, 
if  it  bakes  too  rapidly,  cover  with  a  dripping  pan. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes  are  made  of  meat  or  fowl  previously  cooked.  They 
are  dropped  in  boiling  lard  like  fritters,  and  the  easiest  method  is 
to  lay  them  in  a  wire  basket  and  plunge  them  for  5  or  10  minutes 
into  the  hot  fat.  They  must  be  light,  crisp  and  brown,  but  not 
greasy.  It  is  better  to  make  the  day  before  using,  and  when 
'./anted  lay  them  in  a  hot  oven  on  a  thick,  soft  paper.     Flat  cakes, 


180  MEATS. 

called  balls,  browned  nicely  on  both  sides,  are  a  species  of  cro- 
quettes, and  may  be  cooked  in  boiling  lard,  instead  of  frying  in  a 
pan.  After  the  croquette  mixture  is  prepared,  then  comes  the 
moulding  into  round  and  long  rolls,  say  1  by  2|-  inches.  Have 
convenient  to  the  moulding  board,  a  saucer  of  flour,  one  of  beaten 
egg,  and  a  bowl  of  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Let  the  hands  be  well 
floured.  Take  1  tablespoon  of  the  prepared  meat,  roll  it  between 
the  palms  of  the  hands  into  the  required  shape ;  if  too  thin  they 
will  break  in  frying.  Dip  them  first  into  the  egg,  then  the  bread 
crumbs,  being  careful  that  they  are  well  covered.  Lay  on  a  plat- 
ter, separated  from  each  other,  and  place  them  in  a  cold  place  for 
1  hour  at  least.  Then  put  them  into  a  fr3ang  basket,  and  plunge 
into  the  boiling  lard.  When  a  golden  brown,  take  out  and  lay  on 
a  clean  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  to  dry.  Garnish  chicken 
croquettes  with  fried  parsley,  or  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  or  celery 
into  one  end.  Lobster  croquettes  may  be  garnished  with  lettuce, 
or  cress,  or  slices  of  lemon. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 1. 

1  cooked  chicken,  Cream, 

2  eggs,  Celery, 
Salt  and  pepper,  Parsley. 

Pound,  or  chop  the  meat  very  fine,  add  a  little  minced  celery 
and  parsley,  and  chopped  oj^sters  if  liked ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  moisten  with  cream  or  grav}^,  mix  with  the  beaten  eggs, 
and  make  into  long  balls.     Egg  and  crumb,  and  boil  in  lard. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 2. 

1  chicken,  H  pound  butter, 

}4  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

3^  cup  broth,  2  eggs,  yolks. 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Stew  a  three-pound  chicken  in  a  very  little  water  flavored  with 
parsley,  celery,  and  onion,  if  the  taste  is  liked.  When  done,  cool, 
and  chop  very  fine.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  cook  in  a 
custard  kettle,  add  the  cream  and  broth.  Boil  till  well  thickened, 
take  oflf  the  fire,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  chicken.  Mix  well, 
and  stir  in  slowly  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Cook  uncovered  a  few 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Take  out  to  cool  and  shape  into 
rolls.     Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon  of  cream,  dip  the 


MEATS.  181 

rolls  in  this  and  then  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  after  standing  1 
hour,  boil  in  lard.  These  are  improved  by  adding  a  little  nutmeg 
and  lemon  juice  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Veal  may  be  substituted  for  chicken  in  this  and  the  previous 
recipe,  and  many  consider  turkey  better  than  chicken. 

MEAT    CAKES. 

Scraps  of  meat,  as  steak,  roast,  etc. ,  may  be  chopped  fine,  patted 
into  cakes  an  inch  thick,  and  broiled  over  a  quick  fire ;  or  laid  in 
a  very  hot  spider,  and  turned  when  brown.  Serve  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper.  These  need  to  be  well  done.  Spices,  sage, 
savory,  or  any  flavor  may  be  added  in  the  mixing.  If  herbs  are 
used  they  should  be  dried  and  sifted. 

MEAT    CROQUETTES. 

Use  beef,  chicken,  lamb,  mutton,  veal  or  fish.  To  1  pound  meat 
use  one-fourth  pound  bread  crumbs,  except  in  the  case  of  fish, 
when  potato  is  used.  Moisten  with  gravy,  cream,  or  a  butter 
sauce,  and  mix  with  a  beaten  egg.  Season  with  celery  salt,  pep- 
per and  salt,  but  omit  the  celery  and  add  catsup  to  the  beef  and 
fish  mixture.     Finish  according  to  directions. 

SALMI  OF  DUCK. 

Cut  cold  duck  into  nice  pieces.  Put  the  bones  and  giblets  into 
a  saucepan  and  cover  with  hot  water ;  when  it  boils  add  1  onion 
sliced,  cloves,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  and  cook 
slowly  1  hour.  Then  strain,  and  cool  suflSciently  to  take  ofl?  any 
fat  that  has  risen  to  the  top.  Return  to  the  fire,  add,  when  hot, 
the  pieces  of  duck  and  simmer  1  hour  more.  Water  may  be  added 
if  needed.  Brown  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter  together, 
stir  into  the  meat,  and  let  boil  up.  Arrange  the  duck  on  a  platter 
and  garnish  with  croutons,  bread  cut  in  narrow  oblong,  or  diamond 
shapes,  fried  in  boiling  fat,  or  border  with  boiled  rice.  Stewed 
green  peas  may  be  added  just  before  it  is  thickened. 

HASH. 

Cold  meat  of  any  kind  will  do,  but  corned  beef  is  best ;  remove 
all  surplus  fat  and  bits  of  gristle,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
chop  fine,  and  to  one-third  meat  add  two- thirds  chopped  cold  boiled 
potato;  1  onion  chopped  very  fine  may  be  added.  Place  in  the 
dripping  pan,  dredge  with  a  little  flour,  and  ix)ur  in  at  the  side  of 


182  MEATS. 

the  pan  a  little  water ;  put  in  the  oven,  and  do  not  stir ;  when  the 
flour  is  light  brown,  and  has  formed  a  sort  of  crust,  take  out,  add 
a  lump  of  butter,  and  stir  it  through  several  times.  Or,  by  cook- 
ing longer,  it  may  be  made  of  cold  raw  potatoes,  which  peel,  slice, 
and  let  lie  in  salt  and  water  half  an  hour  before  chopping.  For 
fresh  meat  and  potatoes,  always  use  the  proportions  given  above,  and 
before  chopping,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  chopped  onion  if 
liked;  place  in  a  hot  skillet,  moisten  with  water  or  gravy,  add  a 
little  butter  or  nice  beef  drippings,  stir  often  until  warmed  through, 
cover,  and  let  stand  on  a  moderately  hot  stove  1 5  minutes.  When 
ready  to  dish,  run  the  knife  under  and  fold  as  an  omelet,  and 
serve  with  tomato  catsup.  In  making  veal  hash  use  milk  instead 
of  water  with  the  gravy.  In  making  hash,  meats  may  be  com- 
bined if  there  is  not  enough  of  a  kind. 

TURKEY  HASH. 

Pick  the  meat  off  turkey  bones,  shred  it  in  small  bits,  add  dress- 
ing and  fine  pieces  of  light  biscuit,  mix  all  together  and  put  into  a 
dripping  pan ;  thoroughly  moisten  with  the  gravy,  place  in  a  hot 
oven  20  minutes,  and  serve.  Or,  warm  the  remnants  of  the  tur- 
key over  after  the  style  of  scalloped  oysters.  The  common  error 
in  heating  over  meats  of  all  kinds  is  putting  them  into  a  cold  skil- 
let, and  cooking  a  long  time.  This  second  cooking  is  more  prop- 
erly only  heating,  and  should  be  quickly  done.  All  such  dishes 
should  be  served  hot  with  some  sort  of  tart  jelly.  Save  a  can  of 
currant  juice,  from  which  to  make  jelly  in  the  winter,  and  it  will 
be  as  fresh  and  delicious  as  when  made  in  the  summer. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 
i  cup  milk,  1  eggy 

1  cup  flour,  Pepper  and  salt, 

1  pound  lamb  chops  or  beefsteak. 
Beat  the  egg  thoroughly,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour ;  the 
mixture  should  be  like  that  for  batter  cakes.  Butter  well  a  pud- 
ding dish ;  lay  in  the  chops,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt ;  pour 
over  the  batter,  and  bake  1  hour.  Or,  cut  the  steak  in  small 
pieces,  season,  stir  into  the  batter  and  bake. 

MACARONI  AND  MEAT. 

Chop  lean,  cold,  roast  beef  or  mutton  very  fine;  nearly  fill  a 


MEATS.  183 

pudding  dish  with  cold  boiled  macaroni ;  in  the  center  put  th£ 
chopped  meat,  carefully  flavored  with  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  and,  if 
liked,  a  little  liquor  from  canned  tomatoes.  Pour  stock  or  gravy 
over  all ;  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  add  2  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, and  bake  half  an  hour. 

PATTIES. 

Use  recipe  for  Pyramid  Pat6s,  or  make  a  puff  paste,  and  after  it 
has  waited  1  hour  in  the  ice  box,  or  a  very  cold  place,  roll  out 
quickly  and  cut  rounds  one-quarter  inch  thick  with  a  biscuit  cut- 
ter. Use  three  for  a  pate,  cutting  a  small  round  from  the  centre 
of  two.  Lay  the  rings  on  the  whole  one  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Just  before  taking  from  the  stove,  glaze  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 
A  little  round  may  be  baked  to  serve  as  a  cover  to  each  pate. 
These  may  be  filled  with  the  remnants  of  meat,  poultry,  fish  or  oys- 
ters, prepared  in  a  tempting  manner.  Chicken  and  veal  prepared 
as  for  croquettes  make  a  nice  filling.  When  the  pat^s  are  filled 
and  covered,  heat  through  in  a  hot  oven.  Slices  of  stale  bread,  an 
inch  thick,  ma}'^  be  cut  into  rounds,  and  a  small  circle  cut  out  from 
the  centre  to  half  its  depth.  Fry  as  croquettes,  and  fill  with 
minced  chicken,  turkey  or  meat,  seasoned  with  its  gravy. 

BEEFSTEAK  PIE. 

Cut  steak  and  a  small  slice  of  ham  into  dice;  put  them  into  a 
frying  pan  with  a  little  butter  and  2  chopped  onions;  let  them 
simmer  15  minutes;  add  1  pint  sliced  potatoes,  1  pint  stock,  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  flour.  Cook  20  minutes,  and  pour  into  a 
baking  dish  lined  with  a  nice  pastry.  Cover,  and  bake  till  done. 
Or,  cut  beefsteak  into  half-inch  pieces,  season,  lay  in  a  dish  lined 
with  paste,  add  butter,  water  or  stock,  and  a  little  flour;  cover,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LANCASHIRE  PIE, 

Take  cold  beef  or  veal,  chop,  and  season  as  for  hash ;  have 
ready  hot  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned ;  put  in  a  shallow  baking  dish 
first  a  layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on,  till  the 
dish  is  full ;  smooth  over  the  top  of  the  potatoes,  and  make  little 
holes  in  which  place  bits  of  butter ;  bake  a  nice  brown. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Put  a  layer  of  cold  roast  beef  or  other  meat,  chopped  very  fine, 


184  MEATS. 

in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  layer 
of  powdered  crackers,  with  bits  of  butter,  a  little  milk,  and  fill  the 
dish  with  alternate  layers ;  moisten  with  gravy  or  broth,  or  warm 
water ;  spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of  crackers  which  have  been 
seasoned  with  salt  and  mixed  with  milk  and  a  beaten  egg ;  stick 
bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover  with  a  tin  pan,  and  bake  from 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  remove  the  cover  10  minutes  be- 
fore serving,  and  brown.  Or,  cover  some  bones  with  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  and  let  them  simmer  for  an  hour ;  strain  and  add  a 
chopped  onion,  3  tablespoons  Chili  sauce,  a  level  tablespoon  salt, 
and  the  chopped  meat ;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes,  thicken  with  a 
tablespoon  flour  mixed  in  water,  let  boil  once,  take  off  and  oool ; 
put  a  layer  of  this  in  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  a  few  slices  of  cold,  boiled  potatoes ;  repeat  the 
process.  Cover  with  pastry  or  a  baking  powder  crust  make  an 
opening  in  the  center,  and  bake  40  minutes. 

MUTTON  PIE. 

Spread  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fill 
with  alternate  layers  of  cold  roast  mutton,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and 
tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced;  season  each  la3^er  with  pepper,  salt 
and  bits  of  butter.  The  last  layer  should  be  of  tomatoes  spread 
with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve 
immediately. 

VEAL  AND  HAM  PIE. 

Prepare  a  seasoning  of  3  parts  salt,  1  part  pepper,  and  a  dust 
of  nutmeg.  Take  meat  in  the  proportion  of  two-thh'ds  veal  to 
one- third  ham,  cut  into  thin  slices,  rub  with  the  above  seasoning, 
roll  up  and  place  them  in  a  dish,  adding  water  and  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  If  the  ham  is  very  salt,  use  less  salt  and  more  pep- 
per in  the  seasoning.  Parsley  improves  veal.  Forcemeat,  catsup, 
mushroom,  tomato,  or  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  may  also  be 
added.     Use  good  pastry  for  the  pie. 


MEATS. 


185 


SIRLOIN   OP   BEEP. 

In  carving  beef ,  mutton,  lamb, 
pork  and  veal,  thin,  smooth  slices 
are  desirable.  Cut  across  the 
grain,  taking  care  to  pass  the 
knife  through  to  the  bones  of  the 
meat.  There  are  two  modes  of 
carving  a  sirloin  of  beef ;  either  by  cutting  long,  thin  slices  from  3 
to  4,  and  serving  it  with  a  bit  of  the  fat  underneath  the  ribs,  or  by 
cutting  thicker  slices,  from  1  to  2,  through  the  tenderloin. 

Carve  a  rib  roast  from  the  thick  to  the  thin  end.    Before  slicing 
run  the  knife  behind  and  under  the  meat,  to  free  it  from  the  bones. 

HAM. 

A  ham  may  be  carved  in  three 
ways :    First,  by  cutting  long, 
delicate  slices,  through  the  thick 
fat  from  1  to  2,  down  to  the  bone; 
second,    by  running   the   point 
of  the  knife  in  the  circle  in  the 
middle,  and  cutting  thin  circular 
slices,  thus  keeping  the  ham  moist ;  and  last,  and  most  economic- 
ally, by  beginning  at  the  knuckle,  4-5,  and  slicing  upward 
A  leg  of  pork  may  be  carved  like  ham. 

LEG    OF    MUTTON. 

In  carving  a  leg  of  mutton  the 
best  slices  are  obtained  from  the 
center,  by  cutting  from  1  to  2 ; 
and  very  good  cuts  are  found  on 
the  broad  end  from  5  to  6.  Some 
epicures  prefer  slices  nearer  the 
knuckle,  but  they  are  drj-.  The  cramp-bone  is  a  delicacy,  and  is 
obtained  by  cutting  down  to  the  bone  at  4,  and  running  the  knife 
under  it  in  a  semi-circular  direction  to  3.  The  fat  so  esteemed  by 
many  lies  on  the  ridge  5.  By  turning  over  the  meat  excellent 
slices  are  found  and  may  be  cut  lengthwise. 


186 


MEATS. 


SHOULDER    OF    MUTTON. 

A  shoulder  of  mutton  should 
be  cut  down  to  the  bone,  in  the 
direction  of  the  line  1,  and  thin 
slices  of  lean  meat  taken  from 
each  side.  The  best  fat  is  found 
at  2,  and  should  be  cut  in  that 
direction.  Several  tempting  slic- 
es may  be  cut  on  either  side  of  the  line  3,  and  on  the  under  side 
near  the  flap. 

TONGUE. 

A  tongue  should  be  carved  as 
' '  thin  as  a  wafer ; "  its  delicacy 
depends  in  a  great  degree  upon 
that.  The  center  slices  are  con- 
sidered the  best,  and  should  be 
^^  cut  across  at  the  line  1;  serve 
the  slices  taken  from  each  side,  with  a  portion  of  the  fat  which  is 
at  *:ts  foot. 

FILLET  10F    VEAL. 

Carve  thin  smooth  slices  from  the  top  and  sers^e  with  portions  of 
the  fat  and  dressing.  In  carving  a  breast  of  veal,  first  separate  the 
breast  and  brisket.  Carve  a  loin  roast  like  sirloin  of  beef,  and  a 
rib  roast  like  beef,  but  in  thicker  slices,  and  serve  with  the  fat  and 
kidney. 

HAUNCH   OF    VENISON. 

jt_  A  haunch  of  venison  snould 

be  cut  across  to  the  bone  on  the 
line  1-3-2,  turn  the  dish  a  little, 
put  the  point  of  the  knife  at  3, 
and  cut  down  as  deep  as  possi- 
ble in  the  direction  of  3-4,  and  continue  to  cut  slices  on  the  right 
and  left  of  the  line.  The  fattest  pai-ts  are  found  between  4  and  2. 
A  loin  of  veal  or  a  loin  of  mutton  should  be  jointed  by  the  butcher 
before  it  is  cooked,  and  the  carver  easily  cuts  through  the  ribs.  A 
portion  of  the  kidney  and  the  fat  should  be  served  on  each  plate. 


CATSUPS,  sauces  and  vinegars  come  under  this  caption  and 
are  served  with  various  dishes,  or  incorporated  into  others,  xo 
give  an  appetizing  or  piquant  flavor. 

COLD  CATSUP. 

}4  peck  tomatoes,  }i  cup  salt, 

4  heads  celery,  }4  cup  white  mustard  seed, 

3  white  onions,  2  red  peppers, 

1  cup  nasturtiums,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper, 

1  cup  horse-radish,  1  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves, 

1  quart  vinegar. 
Chop  ripe  tomatoes  and  the  onions  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  letting 
them  stand  2  hours.  C  hop  finely  the  celery,  red  peppers  and  nas- 
turtium seeds,  and  grate  the  horse-radish.  Mix  these  with  the  salt, 
spices,  sugar,  and  vinegar.  Drain  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  seal  in  jars. 

CUCUMBER   CATSUP. 
3  onions,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

3  red  peppers,  1  quart  vinegar, 

13  large  ripe  cucumbers. 
Pare,  seed  and  grate  the  cucumbers.     Let  the  pulp  drain  all 
night  from  a  thin  bag.    Throw  away  the  juice  and  add  the  salt  and 
vinegar  to  the  pulp,  with  finely  chopped  onions  and  peppers.     Mix 
well  and  seal  in  bottles.      Serve  with  fish. 

CURRANT   CATSUP. 
3  quarts  currant  juice,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

3  pounds  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  pint  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Boil  20  minutes,  then  put  in  bottles  and  cork  tight. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 
8  pounds  gooseberries,  4  ounces  cinnamon, 

4  pounds  brown  sugar,  3  ounces  cloves, 

1  pint  vinegar. 
x^  goosebeiTies  should  be  almost  ripe.     Wash  and  put  them 

187 


188 


RELISHES. 


into  a  porcelain  kettle ;  mash,  scald  and  rub  them  through  a  coarse 
sieve ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  3  hours,  then  the  spices  tied  in  a 
bag,  and  cook  a  little  longer.  Add  or  omit  vinegar  and  bottle  im- 
mediately. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

5  pounds  grapes,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
2%,  pounds  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

1  tablespoon  allspice,  %  tablespoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  pepper,  1  pint  vinegar. 

Stew  the  grapes  over  a  slow  fire  until  soft.     Then  strain  througb 

a  sieve.     Add  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.    Boil  until  thickened 

and  bottle. 

MUSHROOM   CATSUP. 

1  ounce  whole  allspice,  3^  ounce  ginger  root, 
24  whole  cloves,                                  1  blade  mace. 

Wipe  freshly-gathered  mushrooms  and  put  in  layers  in  an  earths 
en  dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt.  Cover  with  a  damp  folded 
cloth,  and  let  stand  36  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Strain  through  a 
coarse  sieve.  To  1  quart  juice  add  1  ounce  peppercorns  ;  put  in 
a  kettle  and  boil  half  an  hour ;  add  the  spices,  let  simmer  gently 
15  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and  cool.  When  cold,  strain  and 
seal  in  glass  bottles. 

SUPERIOR  CATSUP. 
K  bushel  tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  cayenne  pepper, 

3  tablespoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  allspice, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cloves. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  boil  1 5  minutes  or  till  tender,  strain  through 
a  hair  sieve,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  down  slowly  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle  to  half  the  quantity.  Three  white  onions  may 
be  added,  and  if  verj^  sour  catsup  is  liked  one  cup  of  vinegar,  just 
before  bottling ;  otherwise  it  is  no  improvement. 

GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP. 

4  quarts  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  mustard, 

2  quarts  cabbage,  2  tablespoons  pepper, 
1  pint  onions,  2  tablespoons  ginger, 

6  pods  red  peppers,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 

1  pound  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 

1  tablespoon  horse-radish,  1  tablespoon  mace. 

Chop  finely  the  tomatoes,  cabbage,  onions  and  peppers j  sprinkle 


RELISHES.  189 

with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain,  add  the  spices  and  sugar 
and  boil  slowly-  4  hours ;  it  should  be  thick  and  smooth.  Keep  in 
bottles. 

TOMATO    CATSUP. 

1  bushel  tomatoes,  2  ounces  allspice, 
12  white  onions,  1  ounce  cloves, 

2  pounds  brown  sugar,  2  ounces  mustard, 
2  quarts  vinegar,  2  grated  nutmegs, 

1  pint  salt. 
Select  firm  ripe  tomatoes,  wipe  them  with  a  damp  cloth,  and 
slice  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle.  Pour  over  them  3  pints  water, 
and  throw  in  the  sliced  onions  and  2  handfuls  peach  leaves.  Boil 
till  the  tomatoes  are  soft,  which  will  take  from  1  to  2  hours.  Strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  return  the  liquid  to  the  kettle  and  add  the 
spices  ground  and  mixed,  the  salt,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Mix  well 
together  before  setting  over  the  fire.  Boil  slowly  2  hours,  stirring 
almost  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Cayenne  pepper  may  be 
added  to  taste.     Fill  bottles  and  seal.      Keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

WALNUT  CATSUP. 

Gather  walnuts  while  sufficiently  tender  to  run  a  needle  through 
them.  Pound  in  stone  mortar.  Put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  ket- 
tle, cover  with  water  and  cook  slowly  2  or  3  hours.  Strain,  and  add 
to  the  liquor  1  teaspoon  each  ground  mace  and  cloves ;  boil  down 
to  one-third  the  quantity.  Fill  the  bottles  with  equal  parts  of  the 
mixture  and  strong  vinegar  and  seal  immediately.  A  little  garlic 
may  be  added  with  the  spices. 

WORCESTERSHIRE    CATSUP. 
1  gill  walnut  catsup,  }i  ounce  cayenne  pepper, 

3^  gill  made  mustard,  10  whole  cloves, 

4  heads  bruised  garlic,  1  blade  mace, 

6  mashed  anchovies,  1  quart  vinegar. 

Mix  all  tl  e  ingredients  but  the  catsup  and  mustard,  cover  and 
let  stand  18  hours.  Sift  and  add  the  catsup  and  mustard.  Keep 
2  weeks  in  a  stone  jug;  then  bottle  and  seal. 

PREPARED  HORSE-RADISH. 

1  coffeecup  grated  horse-radish,  2  tablespoons  white  sugar, 

%  teaspoon  salt,  1  pint  cold  vinegar. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  keep  well  corked  in  a  large- mouthed  bottle. 


^ 


SAMOS 


THE  materials  for  salad  must  be  fresh  and  of  the  best  quality, 
and  their  combination  harmonious.  Lettuce,  celery  and  cress 
must  be  washed  carefully,  dried  lightly  and  handled  delicately. 
Lettuce  and  cress  should  be  shredded  with  the  fingers,  celery  and 
cabbage  cut  with  a  knife,  vegetable  salads  stirred  as  little  as  possi- 
ble, and  all  salads  served  the  day  they  are  prepared.  All  gristle, 
fat,  and  skin  must  be  removed  from  fowl  or  meat,  and  the  flesh  cut 
in  pieces  with  a  knife. 

All  the  ingredients  of  a  salad,  as  well  as  the  bowl,  fork  and  spoon, 
used  in  the  preparation  should  be  very  cold,  and  the  dressing  be 
mixed  in  a  cool  place.  Salad  dressing  cannot  be  made  in  a  hurry, 
and  requires  both  carefulness  and  patience  on  the  part  of  the  one 
who  prepares  it. 

Be  careful  that  the  olive  oil  is  the  best ;  powder  the  yolks  of 
hard-boiled  eggs  in  a  mortar,  or  rub  them  smooth  with  the  back  of 
a  spoon ;  beat  the  yolks  of  raw  eggs  thoroughly,  and  save  the 
whites  for  cake  or  icing  for  they  add  nothing  to  the  salad.  Add 
the  dry  things  to  the  eggs  first,  and  if  it  is  of  the  character  of  a 
maj'^onnaise  dressing,  stir  well  together.  Add  the  oil,  drop  by  drop, 
stirring  or  rubbing  steadily  and  in  one  direction,  occasionally  drop- 
ping in  a  little  vinegar  to  prevent  cracking,  or  more  oil  to  stop 
curdling.  Mix  until  smooth  and  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Long  practice  will  enable  one  to  use  nearly  half  a  cup  of  oil  with 
an  egg.  A  mayonnaise  dressing  is  very  difficult  to  make,  but  a 
favorite  when  prepared.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  substituted 
for  vinegar,  but  it  whitens  the  dressing.  Fresh  sweet  butter  and 
sweet  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  oil.  A  cooked  dressing  is 
made  in  a  similar  manner  to  boiled  custard,  beating  the  eggs,  con. 
diments,  vinegar,  etc.  together,  and  cooking  in  boiling  water.  The 
butter  mav  be  added  before  the  dressinsj  is  taken  from  the  stove, 
but  it  is  better  not  to  add  the  cream  until  afterward.  All  except 
hot  dressing  should  be  made  at  least  three  hours  before  usmg. 

190 


SALADS.  191 

The  following  salad  rhyme  of  Sidney  Smith  loses  none  of  its 
charm  through  repetition: 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

To  make  this  condiment  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs; 

Two  boiled  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen  sieve, 

Smoothness  and  softness  to  the  salad  give; 

Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  half  suspected,  animate  the  whole; 

Of  mordant  mustard,  add  a  single  spoon, 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  so  soon; 

But,  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  fault 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt; 

Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  from  Lucca  crown; 

And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 

And  lastly,  o'er  the  favorite  compound  toss 

A  magic  soupcon  of  anchovy  sauce. 

0  green  and  glorious!  O  herbaceous  treat! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat; 
Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  fleeting  soul, 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl; 
Serenely  full,  the  epicure  would  say, 

'  'Fate  cannot  harm  me — I  have  dined  to-day. " 

SALAD  DRESSING — 1. 

1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  coffecup  vinegar, 

2  tablespoons  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  }4  teaspoon  pepper, 

3  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs,  adding  the  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  melted  butter, 
cream  or  milk,  and  vinegar ;  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  till 
smooth  and  thick,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Use  with  cabbage 
or  potato  salad. 

SALAD  DRESSING — 2. 
2  eggs,  yolks,  2  teaspoons  white  sugar, 

%.  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  teaspoons  made  mustard,         1  tablespoon  butter, 
3^  cup  vinegar,  %  cup  milk. 

Beat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  a  bowl ;  mix  with  the 


192  SALADS. 

other  ingredients ;  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  stir  constantly 
till  it  thickens.  When  cool,  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  sufficient 
for  3  pints  of  sliced  cabbage,  and  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  with 
the  cabbage  before  serving. 

BOTTLED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
8  eggs,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

1  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  mustard, 

1  cup  butter,  1}4  pints  vinegar, 

A  pinch  cayenne. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  other  ingredients  except  the 
butter  and  mix  thoroughly ;  heat  the  vinegar,  add  the  butter,  boil 
and  pour  over  the  mixture,  stir  well  while  cooking,  and  when  cold 
bottle  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  keep  for  weeks  in  the  hot- 
test weather  and  is  excellent  for  cabbage  or  lettuce. 

GOOD  SALAD  DRESSING. 
3  eggs,  yolks,  1  tablespoon  mustard, 

1  cup  vinegar,  J4  tablespoon  sugar, 

K  cup  warm  water,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3^  cup  cream,  or  butter,  Cayenne  pepper. 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  water ;  when  smooth 
add  the  cream  or  melted  butter.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  take  from 
the  fire,  and  whip  into  the  previously  beaten  eggs.  Cook  in  boiling 
water,  and  when  thickened,  add  the  vinegar  gradually.  Use  when 
cold.  Or,  beat  the  eggs  and  condiments  together  ;  add  the  vine- 
gar and  water  and  cook  in  a  custard  kettle  until  thick.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  beat  in  the  cream.  In  place  of  warm  water  use  milk, 
and  the  sharpness  of  the  vinegar  will  be  modified.  Good  for  use 
with  any  salad. 

FRENCH    DRESSING. 

X  cup  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  the  oil,  which  must  be  of  the  finest  qual- 
ity, in  the  proportion  of  twice  as  much  salt  as  pepper;  a  little 
mustard  many  think  is  an  improvement ;  beat  in  slowly  the  vinegar 
that  the  whole  may  be  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Vary  the  amount 
of  vinegar  according  to  the  salad,  or  rub  in  smooth  the  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  vinegar  and  oil 


SALADS.  193 

as  in  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Use  with  artichokes,  endive,  let- 
tuce, cress,  cucumbers  or  celery  ;  it  may  be  combined  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING. 

2  eggs,  yolks,  Lemon  juice  or  vinegar, 

Olive  oil,  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  made  mustard. 
Chill  the  eggs,  oil,  and  the  plate  to  be  used.  Break  the  eggs, 
dash  a  little  white  pepper  and  half  a  saltspoon  salt  into  the  yolks 
and  mix  thoroughly,  adding  the  mustard ;  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop, 
stirring  slowly  and  in  the  same  direction.  If  it  begins  to  crack 
drop  in  vinegar,  still  stirring;  if  it  curdles  use  oil  and  keep  it 
always  in  the  form  of  cream.  This  recipe  makes  one  large  cup  of 
dressing.  Lemon  juice  may  be  used  in  making  a  white  dressing, 
and  if  the  oil  is  disliked,  take  melted  sweet  butter,  but  it  is  not 
then  mayonnaise. 

MUSTARD    DRESSING. 
1  egg,  yolk,  Yz  teaspoon  boiling  water, 

Yz  cup  oil,  1  teaspoon  mustard. 

Vinegar,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Rub  smooth  the  mustard  and  water  with  salt  and  pepper  as  in 
French  dressing  and  stir  slowly  into  the  yolk  of  the  ^g^.  Add 
the  oil  drop  by  drop,  stirring  steadily  and  in  one  direction,  also  the 
vinegar  and  avoid  either  cracking  or  curdling.  Both  patience  and 
management  are  required  to  make  a  nice  mustard  or  mayonnaise 
dressing.  This  dressing  will  keep  2  weeks  on  ice.  If  the  oil  sep- 
arates any  time  it  can  be  rubbed  smooth  with  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar. 

ASPARAGUS    SALAD. 

Cut  tender  asparagus  into  inch  pieces  and  throw  them  into  cold 
water.  Drain,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  salted  in  the  proportion  of 
1  teaspoon  to  1  quart  of  water.  Drain  and  let  stand  till  cold. 
Add  the  dressing,  mix  well,  and  serve  after  standing  1  hour. 

ARTICHOKE    SALAD. 

Wash  thoroughly,  pare,  and  quarter  some  very  young  artichokes. 
Serve  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  and  oil  if  liked,  or  cook 
them  in  their  skins  in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender.       Drain 


194  SALADS. 

and  when  cold,  peel  and  quarter.      Serve  cold  with  French  dress- 
ing.      A  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar  improves  the  dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER    SALAD. 

Take  nicely  boiled  cauliflower,  separate  the  branches,  and  mix 
them  with  any  dressing.  A  little  tarragon  vinegar  and  finely 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added  if  French  dressing  is  used. 

CELERY    SALAD. 

Cut  bleached  celery  in  inch  lengths  after  standing  5  minutes  in 
very  cold  water.  Mix  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
serve  within  1 0  minutes.  Or,  the  celery  may  be  cooked  and  served 
with  a  dressing  like  cauliflower  salad.  Or,  the  long  stalks  may  be 
eaten  with  salt. 

CHICKEN    SALAD. 

3  chickens,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper, 

3  eggs,  4  hard-boiled  eggs, 

1  pint  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  mustard, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
Celery.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Cook  the  chickens  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  when  cold  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  add  twice  the  quantity  of  celery  cut  in  dice, 
and  the  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced ;  mix  well  together.  Make  the 
dressing  in  a  double-boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  with  the 
mustard,  pepper,  sugar  and  salt,  and  pour  slowly  into  the  vinegar 
heating  in  the  boiler ;  stir  till  it  thickens.  When  cold  pour  over 
the  salad,  or  just  before  serving.  A  little  lemon  juice  may  be  add- 
ed to  whiten  the  dressing ;  garnish  with  white  celery  tips. 

CHICKEN    OR    TURKEY    SALAD. 

1  pint  meat,  Salad  dressing, 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  pint  celery. 

Cut  the  meat  in  dice,  set  in  the  ice  box  2  hours.  Mix  with  the 
celery  and  eggs,  cut  in  pieces,  arrange  as  it  is  to  be  served  and 
pour  over  it  a  liberal  quantity  of  mayonnaise  or  other  dressing. 
Garnish  with  celery  tips  and  olives.  Lettuce  may  be  used  for  cel- 
ery, and  celery  salt  or  seed  added  to  the  dressing.  Or,  mix  the 
dressing  with  the  meat  and  celery  and  serve  after  standing  a  little 
while  in  the  ice  box.  Many  omit  the  eggs,  add  a  little  French 
dressing  to  the  meat  before  setting  on  the  ice,  and  a  mayonnaise 


SALADS.  195 

or  other  dressing  after  the  celery  is  mixed  with  the  chicken  and 
just  before  serving. 

CUCUMBER    SALAD. 

Select  fresh  young  cucumbers  and  chill  them  by  keeping  a  few 
hours  in  an  ice-box,  cover  them  a  short  time  with  ice  and  salt. 
Peel,  slice  very  thin,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  and  oil  if 
liked,  just  before  serAing,  or  prepare  the  salad  with  equal  quanti- 
ties of  sliced  cucumbers  and  white  onions,  and  serve  with  an}'- 
French  dressing.  It  is  advisable  to  put  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  salad  bowl. 

ENDIVE  SALAD. 

This  should  be  well  blanched  and  crisp.  Cut  off  the  root  and 
the  dark  green  leaves;  break  the  othei*s  apart,  wash,  drain  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  A  few  chives  may  be  served 
with  it 

FISH  SALAD. 

Take  remnants  of  boiled  fish,  or  a  can  of  salmon  freshly  boiled. 
Remove  the  skin,  fat  and  bones,  cut  in  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  capers  or  whole  allspice,  and  enough  vinegar 
to  stand  on  the  top.  Cover,  let  stand  a  few  hours,  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  or  without  a  dressing.  Garnish  as  usual.  Or,  cut 
salmon,  white  fish  or  trout  in  small  pieces,  mix  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  lettuce  or  cabbage,  adding  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Serve  with  any  good  dressing,  and  garnish  with  the  heart  leaves  of 
lettuce. 

HAM  SALAD. 
Cold  boiled  ham,  1  tablespoon  made  mustard 

2  heads  lettuce,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

3  eggs,  yolks,  K  tablespoon  salt, 
}4  pint  sour  cream,  }4  tablespoon  sugar, 
^  pint  vinegar,                             1  teaspoon  pepper. 

Mix  the  cream,  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  cook 

over  hot  water,  thicken  with  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  set 

in  the  ice  box  or  a  cold  place.    Cut  the  ham  into  small  bits,  shre^ 

the  lettuce,  and  put  both  into  a  salad  bowl.    Pour  the  dressing  over 

the  mixture.     Stir  well  and  serve.     Or,  mix  any  strong  dressing 

with  the  ham  and  lettuce  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


196 


SALADS. 


SOUTHERN  COLD  SLAW. 


X  cup  vinegar, 
yi  cup  water, 
}4  cup  cream, 
1  tablespoon  butter, 


%  teaspoon  mustard, 
X  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  sugar, 
1  saltspoon  pepper, 


2  eggs,  yolks. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  condiments  together  and  work  in  the  butter 
while  the  vinegar  and  water  are  heating  over  the  fire ;  when  boil- 
ing stir  in  the  mixture,  add  the  cabbage,  previously  sliced,  washed 
and  drained,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Before  it  begins  to  wilt, 
take  it  from  the  fire,  pour  into  the  salad  bowl,  and  when  partially- 
cool  stir  in  the  cream.  Serve  cold.  The  salad  is  nice  if  the  cream 
is  omitted. 

CREAM  SALAD. 

4  quarts  cabbage,  1  tablespoon  mustard, 

1  pint  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

1  pint  sour  cream,  1  tablespoon  pepper, 

}i  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  flour. 

Shave  the  cabbage  very  fine ;  boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  butter 
in  a  saucepan ;  stir  in  the  well-beaten  eggs,  cream,  flour  and  condi- 
ments ;  cook  thoroughly,  pour  over  the  cabbage  and  serve  when 
cold  or  hot.  The  cream  may  be  added  just  before  mixing  with  the 
cabbage. 


^^ 


ALL  varieties  of  soup  come  under  the  head  of  bouillon,  broth, 
consomme  or  stock,  and  soup  purees.  The  rules  for  soup 
making  are  very  simple.  First,  never  let  the  soup  stop  boiling 
until  it  is  done ;  second,  never  add  water  after  the  soup  commences 
boiling.  Continued  boiling  does  not  mean  rapid  boiling;  avoid 
that,  for  it  leaves  the  soup  muddy,  and  too  much  evaporation  takes 
place.  Add  fresh  fuel  carefully  to  prevent  a  rapid  blaze  or  a 
deadened  fire. 

Bouillon  is  served  as  a  clear,  strong  soup  at  dinners,  as  a  bever- 
age at  lunches  or  for  invalids.  In  the  latter  case  it  is  much  better 
not  to  clarify  it  except  by  passing  it  through  a  fine  strainer.  Broth 
is  a  thin  soup,  the  liquor  in  which  beef,  chicken,  mutton  or  veal  is 
boiled,  without  any  vegetables.  Stock  is  the  basis  of  all  soups ; 
the  utmost  care  should  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  both  stock 
and  bouillon. 

Each  must  boil  the  time  given  in  the  recipe,  and  be  strained  into 
an  earthen  bowl.  The  next  day  take  off  all  the  f-at,  and  pour  the 
clear  part  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  at  least  one  hour.  Pour  it  into 
small  jars  or  pitchers  so  that  if  only  a  small  quantity  is  wanted  for 
use,  the  rest  of  the  stock  need  not  be  disturbed. 

The  stock  must  be  a  firm,  clear  jelly,  and  will  keep  nicely  in  the 
ice  box  for  a  few  days.  The  sediment  or  thick  part  of  the  soup  is 
very  nutritious  and  is  used  in  a  puree  or  thickened  soup. 

Fresh,  uncooked  beef  and  cracked  bones,  with  veal  or  chicken 
make  the  best  stock.  The  bones,  particularly  the  leg  bones,  con- 
tain the  glutinous  matter  essential  to  a  good  soup.  A^eal  and  fowls 
are  used  for  white  soups.  Mutton  is  too  strongh^  flavored  to  make 
nice  stock,  and  veal  alone  has  but  little  nutritive  properties.  Soups 
which  make  the  principal  part  of  a  meal  should  be  richer  than 
those  which  precede  a  course  of  meats,  etc.     When  remnants  of 

197 


198  SOUP. 

cooked  meats  are  used,  chop  fine,  crush  the  bones,  add  a  ham-bone 
or  bit  of  ham  or  salt  pork,  the  ends  of  roasts,  and  the  brown  fat 
of  the  roast ;  add  vegetables  ;  when  done,  strain,  set  away  over 
night,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  it  is  ready  to  use.  Soup  made  from 
cooked  meats  should  be  used  immediately  since  it  will  not  keep  for 
stock.  Soup  must  always  be  emptied  from  the  kettle  into  an  earthen 
dish,  and  it  must  not  be  covered  or  it  will  sour  quickly.  In  very 
hot  weather  it  is  best  to  reheat  stock  daily  if  a  large  quantity  is 
made. 

The  meat  from  which  gtock  is  made  is  ordinarily  useless,  but 
meat  from  a  quick  soup  may  be  used  in  hashes,  croquettes,  or  sea- 
soned and  pressed,  after  mincing. 

A  puree  is  made  by  boiling  vegetables  slowly  in  broth  or  water, 
sifting  them  when  tender,  and  diluting  to  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream  with  stock,  milk  or  water.  Purees  must  be  well  seasoned, 
and  ai'e  improved  by  the  addition  of  eggs,  cream  and  butter.  They 
should  be  used  within  twelve  hours  after  they  are  made. 

TO  CLEAR  SOUP. 

In  forty-nine  cases  out  of  fifty  it  will  not  be  neoeeeary  to  clarify 
soup  if  it  is  properly  mada  When  it  is  desired,  either  raw  beef 
or  white  of  egg  may  be  used  •,  but  egg  impoverishes  the  soup  while 
beef  enriches  it.  Add  to  every  quart  of  cold  stock  half  a  pound 
of  raw  lean  beef,  chopped  fine ;  also  add  a  scraped  carrot,  a  small 
turnip  and  a  leek  cut  in  dice,  to  the  whole  amount  of  soup.  Set 
over  the  fire,  keep  stirring  and  when  it  boils  let  it  simmer  gently 
half  an  hour.  Strain  through  bags  of  fine,  thin  cloth  and  flannel. 
To  clarify  with  eggs  :  stir  into  three  quarts  of  cold  soup  the  whites 
and  crushed  shells  of  two  eggs.  Place  over  the  fire  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Take  off  the  fire,  and  after  standing  ten  minutes,  strain 
the  soup  through  a  flannel  bag.  Clarified  soup  will  become  cloudy 
if  allowed  to  stand  long  before  using. 

CEREALS  AND  YEGETABLES. 

Cereals. — Pearl  and  Scotch  barley,  hominy  and  rice  are  used  in 
white  soup.  Though  differently  classified,  arrowroot,  farina,  mac- 
aroni, sago,  tapioca,  and  vermicelli  are  desirable  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. 

Vegetables.  — In  most  cases  it  is  better  to  cook  the  vegetables 


SOUP. 


199 


with  the  stock,  to  secure  their  strength,  richness  and  flavor ;  and 
the  pulpy  mass  is  rejected  by  straining.  The  principal  vegetables 
in  use  are,  asparagus,  beans,  carrots,  green  com,  garlic,  onions, 
okra,  parsnips,  peas,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  and  turnips.  Cabbage  is 
occasionally  used,  but  in  a  sufficient  quantity  to  make  the  princi- 
pal part  of  the  soup.  Green  or  dried  pea,  and  bean  soup  should 
always  be  strained  before  serving.  A  thick  soup  of  this  character 
is  called  a  puree.  Asparagus,  celery,  and  often  tomato  is  served 
in  the  soup. 

COLORS,    SPICES  AND  SEASONINGS. 

Colors.  — The  best  color  for  soups  is  obtained  from  good  materi- 
als and  long  cooking.  Caramel,  or  burnt  sugar,  gives  a  rich  brown 
color,  grated  carrot  an  amber  hue,  the  juice  of  tomatoes  a  red  shade, 
and  pounded  spinach  a  fine  green  tint  Skim  the  soup  before  add- 
ing the  carrot  Bruise  the  spinach  in  a  mortar,  tie  in  a  cloth  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice;  add  to  the  soup  five  minutes  before  taking 
from  the  fire.  Mock-turtle  soup  should  have  this  color,  and  it  is 
sometimes  used  in  veal  and  lamb  soups.  Okra  will  give  a  green 
shade,  also  parsley  or  celery  leaves,  if  cooked  in  soup. 

Spices. — For  brown  soup  use  dark  spices,  like  cloves  and  all- 
spice; for  white  soup,  mace,  aromatic  seeds,  and  curry  powder. 
The  simplest  and  absolutely  essential  spices  are  pepper  and  salt, 
but  too  much  of  each  will  spoil  any  soup.  Mace  is  especially 
adapted  to  chicken  and  oyster  soup.  Spiced  vinegar,  from  sweet 
pickles  or  chowchow,  gives  a  nice  flavor,  and  catsups  and  sauces 
are  often  a  great  improvement 

Seasoning. — The  best  herbs  are  sage,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram, 
tarragon,  mint,  sweet  basil,  parsley  and  bay-leaves.  Gather  and  dry 
them  as  follows:  parsley  and  tarragon  in  June  and  July,  just  before 
flowering ;  mint  in  June  and  July ;  thyme,  marjoram  and  savory, 
in  July  and  August ;  basil  and  sage,  in  August  and  September. 
All  herbs  should  be  gathered  in  the  sunshine,  and  dried  by  art- 
ificial heat ;  their  flavor  is  best  preserved  by  keeping  them  in  air- 
tight tin  cans,  or  in  tightly-corked  glass  bottles.  An  agreeable  fla- 
vor is  given  to  soup  by  sticking  cloves  into  a  piece  of  meat  or  an 
onion ;  sliced  onions  fried  in  butter,  or  in  butter  and  flour,  and 


200  SOUP. 

rubbed  through  a  sieve  improves  the  color  and  flavor  of  many  soups. 
The  red  pepperpod  cooked  in  the  soup  is  preferable  to  cayenne 
added  just  before  serving.  Lemon  and  orange  juice  and  the  peel 
often  impart  a  very  fine  flavor.  Thickened  soups  require  twice  the 
seasoning  needed  for  thin  soups  or  broth. 

STOCK  FOR  SOUP. 
6  pounds  shin  of  beef,  3  large  onions. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  or  2  carrots, 

1  old  fowl,  1  head  celery, 

8  quarts  cold  soft  water,  6  cloves, 

Salt  and  pepper,  Parsley, 

1  cup  tomatoes.  Blade  of  mace. 

Crack  the  bones  well  and  cut  the  meat  in  pieces  3  or  4  inches 
square ;  put  them  into  a  stock-pot  with  the  salt,  pepper,  and  water, 
and  cook  slowly  1  hour.  Apply  more  heat  and  at  the  end  of  2 
hours  add  the  vegetables,  with  the  cloves  stuck  into  the  onions. 
Cook  gently  but  steadily  8  hours  longer.  Take  it  off,  strain,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  The  next  day  remove  the  fat,  take  off  the  clear 
jell}'',  and  boil  it  1  hour.  Pour  it  into  quart  jars  or  pitchers,  and 
keep  it  in  a  very  cold  place.  This  jelly  may  be  used  in  various 
ways,  and  diluted  with  hot  water,  if  desired  less  strong.  Vegeta- 
bles must  be  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water  before  adding  to  the 
hot  stock.     Season,  cook  together  a  few  moments  and  serve. 

White  stock  is  used  for  white  soups  and  is  made  as  just  described, 
omitting  the  beef  and  using  both  veal  and  chicken. 

To  make  stock  of  a  golden  color,  add  to  the  beef  and  veal  1 
pound  ham  and  boil  slowly  5  hours.  Fr}^  the  onions  in  a  little  but- 
ter, and  add  with  the  other  vegetables  to  the  soup ;  omit  the  mace 
and  tomatoes  and  add  1  small  parsnip.  Boil  slowly  2  hours  longer. 
Strain  and  let  stand  over  night.  Remove  the  fat,  take  out  the  clear 
jelly  and  mix  with  the  broken  shells  and  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Boil  10  minutes  and  strain  through  a  jelly  bag ;  do  not  squeeze  it. 
If  it  is  not  clear  and  a  golden  brown  color,  strain  again  until  clear. 
Take  great  care  to  have  a  bright  clean  kettle,  and  scald  the  sieve 
before  it  is  used. 

Any  part  of  a  raw  chicken,  beef  bones,  or  pieces  of  raw  meat 
maj'  be  added  when  the  stock  is  first  put  over  the  fire ;  but  cooked 


SOUP.  201 

meat  or  bones  will  make  the  soup  muddy.  After  the  jelly-like  part 
of  the  meat  is  taken  off  use  the  sediment  remaining  for  thick  soups. 
It  is  the  richest  part  of  the  soup. 

To  make  stock  successfully,  follow  the  directions  carefully,  and 
never  let  the  soup  stop  boiling  one  moment,  neither  add  water  after 
it  commences  to  boil. 

EGG  BALLS. 
6  hard-boiled  eggs,  yolks,  3  eggs,  yolks, 

Salt  and  flour. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  cooked  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste ;  beat  the 
raw  yolks  with  a  little  salt,  and  add  gradually  to  the  egg  paste. 
Stir  in  just  enough  flour  to  roll  into  small  balls  and  drop  into  boil- 
ing salted  water,  or  broth,  for  5  minutes. 

rORCEMEAT   BALLS. 

Mince  fine  cold  veal,  chicken,  ham  or  soup  meat,  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  grated  peel,  or  a  little 
minced  onion  fried  in  butter.  Mix  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg, 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  roll  in  balls.  Fry  in  butter  8  to  10 
minutes  or  poach  5  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Forcemeat,  if  made 
in  small  balls,  may  be  served  in  the  soup.  Large  balls  are  served 
as  an  entree.  Parsley  and  thyme  may  be  used  for  seasoning  the 
stronger  meats. 

soyer's  forcemeat  balls. 
1}4  pounds  veal,  1  teaspoon  beef  suet, 

1  pound  fresh  suet,  J^ teaspoon  pepper, 

6  ounces  panada,  4  eggs, 

A  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Buy  the  fillet  and  cut  into  long  thin  slices ;  scrape  with  a  knife 
until  only  the  fibre  remains ;  put  the  pulp  into  a  mortar,  pound  10 
minutes,  and  pass  through  a  wire  sieve ;  use  that  which  remains 
for  soups.  Skin,  shred,  and  chop  the  suet  fine.  Pound  it  in  the 
mortar,  and  add  the  panada,  which  is  soft  crustless  bread  soaked 
in  milk  and  cooked  nearly  dry,  and  pound  again.  Season,  mix, 
and  add  the  eggs  one  by  one,  while  the  pounding  is  continued. 
When  thoroughly  mixed,  take  a  little  piece  in  a  spoon  and  drop 
into  boiling  salted  water.  The  forcemeat  may  be  softened  with 
cream,  or  made  firmer  with  another  egg. 


202  SOUP. 

SPRINGTIME  SOUP. 

Large  head  lettuce,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

Yz  pint  peas,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Bunch  parsley,  3  eggs,  yolks, 

1  sliced  onion,  2  quarts  stock. 

Shred  the  lettuce  and  parsley,  brown  the  onion  in  the  butter,  and 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  the  peas ;  cover  with  water,  add  the  salt 
and  pepper  and  cook  till  tender.  Bring  the  stock  to  a  boil ;  beat 
up  the  eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  the  vegetable  liquor  and  add  with 
the  hot  stock  to  the  other  part  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

VEAL  SOUP. 
A  veal  knuckle,  1  cup  cream, 

3  quarts  cold  water,  3  eggs,  yolks, 

%  pound  butter.  Salt  and  pepper, 

K  cup  rice,  tapioca,  or  vermicelli. 
Put  the  veal  into  a  soup-kettle  with  the  water  and  let  it  simmer 
3  hours.  Strain,  add  salt,  pepper  and  the  rice;  boil  slowly  till 
tender.  Rice  will  need  30,  tapioca  40,  and  vermicelli  20  minutes 
cooking.  Add  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  in  the  tureen  with  the 
cream,  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  slowly  over  them,  stirring  steadily. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 1. 

1  pint  cooked  tomatoes.  Bunch  sweet  herbs, 

3  onions.  Pepper  and  salt, 

3  carrots,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

3  turnips,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  small  cabbage,  1  cup  sweet  cream, 

Head  celery,  3  quarts  boiling  water. 

Chop  all  the  vegetables  very  fine  and  brown  them,  except  the 
cabbage,  in  a  little  butter ;  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  the  boiling 
water,  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  in  30  minutes  add  the  cabbage 
and  tomatoes.  Let  simmer  2  hours  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Rub 
the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  the  cream  and  a  little  sugar,  stir 
into  the  soup  and  boil  5  minutes.  Serve  with  croutons  or  crisped 
crackers. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 2. 

6  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

4  onions,  1  tablespoon  flour, 

2  carrots,  1  pint  milk, 

2  turnips,  2  quarts  stock. 

Celery,  Salt  and  pepper. 


SOUP. 


203 


Cut  the  ve^tables  into  small  pieces ;  put  them  into  the  melted 
butter  and  stir  briskly  10  minutes.  Then  add  the  flour,  mixed 
smoothly,  and  the  milk.  Stir  till  it  boils,  and  cook  the  vegetables 
till  tender.  Season  to  taste,  put  through  a  colander  and  mix  with 
the  boiling  stock.    Let  simmer  an  hour  and  serve  with  croutons. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  vermicelli  into  pieces  and  cook  15  min- 
utes in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  and  add  to  2  quarts  of  rich 
boiling  broth.  Cook  until  tender,  and  serve.  Sufficient  for  eight 
people. 

WHITE  SOUP. 

This  may  be  made  by  recipe  for  veal  soup,  omitting  the  rice,  and 
one  of  the  egg  yolks,  or  by  using  2  quarts  chicken  broth  with  2 
cups  of  cream,  and  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  and  cream  in 
the  tureen  and  pour  in  slowly  the  boiling  broth.  Season  and  serve 
with  croutons.  Or,  3  tablespoons  mashed  potato  may  be  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  broth  and  stirred  into  the  boiling  broth. 
When  well  mixed  pour  over  the  cream  in  the  tureen  and  add  a  few 
dice  of  veal  or  chicken. 


VEGE'MBLES 


IF  the  hame  garden  furnishes  the  supply  of  vegetables,  gather 
them  early  in  the  morning  with  the  dew  on  them,  and  keep 
them  in  a  cold  place  till  ready  to  use.  If  vegetables  must  be 
bought,  get  them  as  fresh  as  possible.  Use  freshly  boiled  hot  soft 
water  for  cooking  them.  Beans  and  peas  should  lie  an  hour  in  cold 
water  before  snapping  or  shelling.  Almost  all  vegetables  are  im- 
proved by  lying  in  cold  water  before  cooking,  though  the  flavor  of 
strong  onions  is  modified  by  lying  in  warm,  salted  water.  Old  po- 
tatoes should  lie  over  night  in  cold  water,  and  they  are  improved 
by  paring  before  cooking.  Use  salt  in  the  proportion  of  a  heaping 
tablespoon  to  1  gallon  of  water.  Beans,  beets,  corn,  peas,  squashes, 
tomatoes  and  turnips  are  improved  by  adding  a  little  sugar  be- 
fore serving  them.  Drain  vegetables  in  a  colander  as  soon  as 
cooked,  and  prepare  immediately  for  the  table. 

Always  add  a  little  soda  to  the  water  in  which  greens  are  cooked, 
to  preserve  their  color.  A  small  piece  of  red  pepper,  a  piece  of 
bread  tied  in  a  cloth,  or  a  bit  of  charcoal  dropped  into  the  water  in 
which  strong  vegetables  are  cooking  will  absorb  much  of  the  dis- 
agreeable odor.  The  bread  should  be  burned  when  taken  from  the 
water.  It  is  much  better  to  boil  the  meat  by  itself,  and  pour  off 
part  of  the  water  if  it  is  desirable  to  cook  vegetables  in  the  liquor 
instead  of  putting  them  in  with  the  meat. 

If  watery  potatoes  must  be  cooked,  add  a  small  lump  of  lime  to 
the  water.  For  baking  or  boiling  whole  vegetables,  carefully  se- 
lect those  of  uniform  size,  and  boil  them  steadily  but  not  furiously. 

Old  vegetables  require  nearly  twice  as  much  time  for  cooking  as 
young  ones.  Man}''  consider  that  potatoes  are  nicer  boiled  in  two 
waters,  but  the  second  water  must  be  boiling  and  added  immedi- 
ately after  the  first  is  drained  off.  All  sliced  vegetables  should  be 
cut  across  and  not  with  the  grain.  All  vegetables  should  be  thor- 
oughly cooked,  and  they  require  a  longer  time  late  than  early  in 
the  season. 


VEGETABLES.  205 

In  gathering  asparagus,  break  the  stalk,  do  not  cut  it  off.  Below 
the  point  at  which  it  will  break  off  it  is  woody  fibre. 

Cook  asparagus,  lima  beans,  beets,  com,  sliced  cabbage, carrots, 
cauliflower,  celery,  okra,  green  peas,  spinach  and  turnips,  in  boil- 
ing water ;  add  salt  to  the  water  in  which  string  beans,  cabbage, 
onions,  potatoes,  and  squashes  are  boiled.  Cover  all  vegetables 
while  cooking,  except  string  beans,  green  peas,  spinach,  and  to- 
matoes. If  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes  are  frozen,  bake  or  boil  them 
without  thawing.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  should  not  be  pared  until 
needed  for  use. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape  off  the  coarse  skin,  tie  in  bunches,  making  the  tips  even, 
and  cut  off  the  woody  ends,  leaving  them  of  equal  length.  Wash, 
and  lay  them  in  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  cook  slowly  20 
minutes,  or  till  tender.  Take  out  the  asparagus  carefully,  lay  it 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  remove  the  strings.  Serve 
with  melted  butter,  or  cream  sauce. 

AMBUSHED  ASPARAGUS. 

50  heads  asparagus,  4  well-beaten  eggs, 

25  stale  rolls  or  biscuit,  1  pint  milk, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  off  the  tender  tips  of  the  asparagus,  boil  in  salted  water  till 
tender,  drain  and  chop  fine.  Take  the  biscuits,  cut  off  the  tops, 
scoop  out  the  inside,  and  put  them,  with  the  tops,  into  the  oven  to 
dry.  While  drying,  heat  the  milk,  stir  in  the  eggs,  strain,  and 
return  to  the  fire.  When  it  thickens,  add  the  butter,  salt,  pepper, 
and  asparagus.  As  it  begins  to  boil,  take  from  the  fire,  fill  the 
biscuit  with  the  mixture,  fit  on  the  tops  carefully,  set  in  the  oven  3 
minutes,  arrange  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  AND  EGGS. 

Cut  tender  asparagus  in  half -inch  lengths,  and  boil  in  salted 
water  10  minutes,  or  till  tender.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
6  eggs  separately.  Stir  into  the  yolks  1  tablespoon  each  cream  and 
melted  butter  with  pepper  and  salt.  Drain  the  asparagus,  mix  with 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  turn  into  a  buttered  saucepan,  stir  in  the  whites, 
heat  through  and  serve.     Garnish  with  croutons. 


208  ^VEGETABLES. 

STEWED   ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  tender  asparagus  in  inch  lengths,  wash,  drain  and  cook  rap- 
idly in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender.  While  it  is  cooking  make 
a  cream  sauce  as  follows  :  melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire.  When  it  bubbles  shake  in  1  tablespoon  flour ;  mix 
well  and  stir  in  1  cup  boiling  milk,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the 
asparagus,  well-drained,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Stir  care- 
fully, and  serve  very  hot  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast. 

CREAM  BAKED  BEANS. 
1  pint  beans,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  cup  cream,  Salt. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender.  Put  them  in  a  bean  pot  or  stone 
jar,  add  the  cream,  salt  and  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  thoroughly  baked.  Take  off  the  cover  before  they  are  done,  in 
order  to  brown  them. 

grandmother's  BAKED  BEANS.. 

1  quart  dry  beans,  2  tablespoons  N.  O.  molasses, 

1  pound  bacon,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Wash  the  beans  in  hot  water,  drain,  put  in  a  kettle  with  the  ba- 
con and  cover  with  boiling  water ;  boil  half  an  hour,  add  the  soda, 
stir  well,  cook  5  minutes,  and  skim  into  a  bean  pot.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  the  molasses,  score  the  rind  of  the  bacon,  cover 
it  with  the  beans,  add  boiling  water  till  it  stands  on  the  top,  and 
place  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bake  steadily  6  hours,  adding  hot  water 
as  they  dry ;  after  that  time,  the  cover  may  be  left  off  and  the  beans 
baked  as  dr}"  as  liked.  The  secret  of  success  lies  in  using  hot  water 
throughout;  cold  water  hardens  and  toughens  beans.  The  bacon 
is  much  nicer  than  pork,  giving  a  delicate  smoky  flavor.  This 
recipe  will  make  three  quarts  when  done. 

FRENCH,   STRING  AND  WAX  BEANS. 

The  beans  should  snap  when  bent.  String  carefully,  break  off 
the  ends  and  cut  in  2  or  3  pieces.  Let  them  stand  15  minutes  in 
cold  water.  Drain;  throw  them  into  boiling  salted  water;  cover 
and  boil  half  an  hour ;  uncover,  and  let  them  cook  steadilj'-  1^ 
hours  if  the  beans  are  light  ones,  and  an  hour  longer  if  they  are 


VEGETABLEa  207 

the  green  variety.  If  the  beans  are  nearly  dry  do  not  drain  them , 
but  add  butter  and  sweet  cream,  and  more  salt  if  needed,  before 
serving  them.  Or,  cook  a  little  piece  of  salt  pork  with  the  beans. 
When  done,  take  out  the  pork,  drain  off  the  water,  and  serve  with 
a  little  cream  or  cream  sauce.  Green  shelled  beans  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  way ;  they  will  be  ready  to  serve  in  30  or  45  minutes. 

DRY  LIMA  BEANS. 

Wash  the  beans  in  warm  water,  soak  3  hours  and  drain.  Cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  steadily  from  1^  to  2  hours,  or  till 
tender.  Drain  off  the  water,  or  if  almost  dry,  without  draining, 
add  cream,  butter  rubbed  with  a  little  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Take 
from  the  fire  in  5  minutes  and  serve. 

SHELLED  BEANS. 

Butter,  cranberry,  kidney,  or  lima  beans  may  be  used.  Cover 
with  cold  water  and  soak  half  an  hour.  Throw  the  beans  into  boil- 
ing water ;  add  a  very  little  salt  and  cook  from  half  an  hour  to  2 
hours,  according  to  variety  and  age.  When  tender,  drain  off  the 
water,  add  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  stew  10  or  15  min- 
utes longer.     Select  only  young  beans  for  this  dish. 

BEETS. 

Choose  the  small  smooth  roots.  Wash  carefully,  but  do  not 
break  or  cut  them,  else  the  color  and  sweetness  will  escape  while 
cooking.  Cover  with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  cook  them  from 
1  to  2  hours  if  the  beets  are  young ,  if  old  they  may  require  4  or 
5  hours.  When  tender,  drop  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  and 
slip  off  the  skin.  Slice,  unless  very  small,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter,  or  a  hot  sauce  of  vinegar,  salt,  and  butter  thickened  with  a 
little  flour.  Or,  serve  cold  with  salt  and  pepper,  after  slicing  and 
letting  them  stand  a  few  hours  in  vinegar.  Or,  bake  them  in  a  hot 
oven,  turning  them  frequently  with  a  knife  to  avoid  breaking  the 
skin.  When  done  remove  the  skin,  slice  and  serve  with  butter  or 
a  vinegar  dressing. 

BAKED  CABBAGE. 
1  tablespoon  butter,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  cream,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Chop  finely  a  cold,  boiled  white  cabbage  that  has  been  perfectly 
drained.     Mix  with  the  above  ingredients,  put  into  a  buttered  pud- 


208  VEGETABLES. 

ding  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown.    Serve 
hot 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 

Halve  or  quarter  the  cabbage  and  lay  in  cold  salted  water  to  draw 
out  the  little  insects  hiding  in  the  leaves.  Drain  well,  and  put  into 
a  large  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water ;  cover,  and  after  cooking 
10  minutes,  change  the  water,  but  do  not  cover  the  second  time. 
A  summer  cabbage  will  cook  in  30  or  40  minutes,  but  it  will  re- 
quire from  1  to  1^  hours  for  the  winter  variety.  Drain  very  dry 
in  a  colander.  Dress  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  a 
cream  sauce.  Or,  halve  the  cabbage,  remove  the  hard  center,  let 
stand  2  hours  in  cold  water,  tie  in  a  cabbage  net  or  a  thin  piece  of 
muslin,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  Or,  shave  finely,  put  in 
a  net  and  cook  as  usual. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE. 

Slice  as  for  cold  slaw,  and  cook  30  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water.  Drain,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  rich  cream,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Let 
simmer  3  minutes  and  serve.  Or,  put  the  cabbage  in  salted  boil- 
ing water,  cover  closely,  and  cook  15  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water, 
add  rich  hot  milk,  and  when  tender,  add  butter  and  1  teaspoon 
flour  mixed  with  milk ;  season,  and  when  it  boils,  serve. 

PRIED  CABBAGE. 

Melt  1  or  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  hot  spider.  When  it  bubbles 
throw  in  sliced  boiled  cabbage,  and  fry  a  light  brown.  If  a  tart 
taste  is  desired,  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  before  taking  from  the 
fire. 

HEIDELBERG  CABBAGE. 

2  small  red  cabbages,  3  tablespoons  vinegar, 

1  onion,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

4  cloves,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

The  cabbages  must  be  hard  and  firm.  Halve,  lay  the  flat  side 
down,  and  cut  across  in  thin  slices.  Put  the  butter,  or  drippings 
into  a  saucepan,  and  when  hot  add  the  vinegar  and  salt  with  the 
cabbage ;  stick  the  cloves  into  the  onion,  and  bury  it  in  the  cab- 
bage. Boil  2^  hours.  If  it  becomes  dry,  and  in  danger  of 
scorching,  add  a  very  little  water. 


VEGETABLES. 


20D 


STUFFED    CABBAGE. 

Cut  out  the  heart  of  a  large  fresh  cabbage.  Fill  the  vacancy 
with  forcemeat  balls  of  chicken  or  veal.  Tie  the  cabbage  firmly 
together,  put  into  cheese-cloth  and  boil  2  hours  in  a  covered  kettle. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape  them  well,  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  half  an  hour. 
Cook  them  in  boiling  water  until  tender.     Winter  carrots,  if  whole, 
require  from  1^  to  3  hours ;  summer  carrots,  from  30  to  45  min- 
utes.    Or,  slice  the  carrots  very  thin  and  boil  until  tender. 

CREAMED    CARROTS. 

1  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  batter, 

Salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Make  a  cream    sauce  according  to  directions,  and   stir  in  the 

boiled  carrots  cut  in  dice.     Stew  gently  15  minutes,  add  a  little 

chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

FRIED   CARROTS. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  hot  spider.  Cut  cold  boiled  carrots  into 
long  thin  strips.  When  the  butter  bubbles  lay  in  the  carrots, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  and  fry  till  the  edges  are 
brown  and  crisp.  A  little  finely  chopped  parsley  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

LYONNAISE  CARROTS. 

Chop  an  onion  very  fine  and  fry  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
nice  drippings.  Add  the  boiled  carrots,  cut  in  small  dice,  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir,  fry  them  golden-brown,  add  a  little  finely 
chopped  parsley,  mix  well  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  cut  an  X  in  the  stalk,  and  put  head 
downward  into  salt,  or  vinegar,  and  water  for  30  minutes,  that  all 
insects  may  be  drawn  out.  Drain  well,  tie  loosely  in  a  piece  of 
cheese-cloth  put  into  boiling  salted  water  whitened  with  milk,  and 
boil  gently  until  tender,  which  will  depend  upon  the  size,  one  of 
medium  size  requiring  40  or  45  minutes.  Lift  it  carefully  by  the 
cloth,  drain  thoroughly,  put  into  a  vegetable  dish,  pour  over  it  a 
S^  cream  sauce,  cover  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 


iTIMFTABlfi 


1^ 


lss«8sag?„to... 


:j- 


TIME  OF 
COOKING. 


TIME  OF 
DIGESTION. 


Apples,  sour,  hard Raw 

Apples,  sweet  and  mellow Raw 

Asparagus Boiled 

Beans,  pod Boiled 

Beans,  with  green  corn Boiled 

Beef *Roasted 

Beefsteak Broiled 

Beefsteak Fried 

Beef,  corned Boiled 

Bass,  fresh Broiled 

Beets,  young Boiled 

Beets  old Boiled 

Bread,  corn Baked 

Bread,  wheat Baked 

Butter,, Melted 

Cabbage Raw 

Cabbage  and  vinegar Raw 

Cabbage Boiled 

Cake,  sponge Baked 

Carrot,  orange Boiled 

Cauliflower Boiled 

Cheese,  old Raw 

Chicken Fricasseed 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole Boiled 

Custard,  1  qt Baked 

Duck,  tame Roasted 

Duck,  wild Rare  roasted 

Dumpling Boiled 

Eggs,  hard Boiled 

Eggs,  soft Boiled 

Eggs Fried 

Eggs Raw 

Fowls,  domestic Boiled  or  roasted 

Gelatine Boiled 

Goose,  wild Roasted 

Lamb Boiled 

Meat  and  vegetables Hashed 

Milk 


Milk... 
Mutton. 
Mutton 
Onions.. 


. . . Raw 

.Boiled 
.Broiled 
.*Roast 
..Boiled 


15  to  20  m. 
45  to  60  m. 
45  to  60  m. 

15  m 

6  to    8m. 

3  to  4  hrs. 
10  m.  per  ft 
30  to  45  m. 
Forever  . . . 

3  hrs 

45  to  60  m. 

45  to  60  m . 
60  m 

30  to  45  m. 
30  to  40  m. 

1:30  to  2  hrs 

2  hrs 

30  to  40  m . 
40  to  60  m . 

30  m 

60  m 

15  to  20  m . 

3  to    5  m. 
5  m 

2  to  3  hrs. 

2  hrs 

2  to  3  hrs. 

8  to  15  m. 

15m 

30  to  45  m . 


H.      M. 

2     00. 
1     30. 


2  30. 

2  45. 

4  00, 

2  45. 


3     15. 
3     30, 


2  00. 

4  00. 

2  30. 

3  15. 

3  30. 
2  45. 

2  00. 

4  00. 

3  00. 
3  30. 


1  00. 

2  30. 
2     30. 


3     15. 


210 


COOK'S  TTMB  TABLB— <X)NTINUED. 


211 


TIME  OF 
COOKING. 


TIME  OF 
DIGESTION. 


Oysters Roasted 

Oysters Stewed 

Parsnips Boiled 

Pig's  feet Boiled 

Pork *Roast 

Pork,  ham Boiled 

Pork > Broiled 

Pork Fried 

Potatoes Baked 

Potatoes Boiled 

Potatoes Roasted 

Rice Boiled 

Salmon,  fresh *Boiled 

Sausage Fried 

Soup,  chicken Boiled 

Soup,  oyster  or  mutton Boiled 

Soup,  vegetable. Boiled 

Spinach Boiled 

Tapioca Boiled 

Tomatoes Fresh 

Tomatoes Canned 

Trout,  salmon,  fresh Boiled  or  fried 

Turkey Roasted 

Turnips Boiled 

Veal Broiled 

Venison  steak Broiled 

*  To  the  R). 


3  to  5 

3  to  5 

30  to  45 

m. . 
m. . 
m. . 

15  m 

4  to  5  hrs . . 

30  to  45 
30  m .  . . 

m. . 

30  to  45 
30  to  45 
10  m.  . . 

m. . 

m. . 

15  m 

3  to  4  hrs.. 
3  hrs 

3  to  4  hrs.. 
20  to  30  m . . 
60  m 

20  to  30 
15  to  20 
15  m.  . . 

m. . 
m. . 

3  hrs 1 

30  to  45 

m. . 

8  to  10 

m. . 

H.  M. 

3  30. 

2  30. 

1  00. 

5  15. 


3  30. 
2  33. 
1     00. 


2     00. 


30. 
25. 
30. 
00. 
30. 


ft) 


oz. 


1  quart  sifted  flour — 16  ounces Equals 

1  quart  sifted  Indian  meal 

1  quart  powdered  sugar 

1  quart  granulated  sugar 

1  quart  coffee  "A"  sugar 

1  quart  best  brown  sugar 

1  pint  closely  packed  butter 

10  medium-sized  eggs 

4  cups  sifted  flour 

2%  cups  powdered  sugar 

2  cups  granulated  sugar 

2^2  cups  best  brown  sugar 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  heaped 

1  pint  of  water  or  fruit  juice 

16  fluid  ounces,  or  4  gills,  or  1  pint 

1  cup  water,  or  2  gills 

1  wineglass  of  rose  water 

1  tablespoon,  or  4  teaspoons 


Luals 

1 

1 

4 

1 

7 

1 

9 

1 

8 

1 

10 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
1 

2 

2 

1 

1 

8 

2 

K 

4  gills=l  pint; 
2  pints«=l  quart; 
4  quarts=l  gallon; 


16  drams  (dr.) 

16  ounces=l  pound  (lb.) 

25  pounds=l  quarter  (qr.) 


60  drops==l  teaspoon; 
2  teaspoons=l  dessertspoon; 
2  dessertspoons=l  tablespoon; 
2  saltspoons=l  teaspoon,  dry. 

AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 
1  ounce  (oz.)  4  quarters=l  hundred  weight 


(cwt.) 
2000  pounds=l  ton  (T.) 


WEIGHTS  OF  ARTICLES. 

Apples,  dried,  bushel,    25  pounds.      Flour,  barrel,  net, 
Beef,  firkin,  100 

Pork,  barrel,  200 

Beans,  bushel,  60 

Butter,  firkin,  56 

tub,  84 

Peaches,  dried,  bushel,  33 
Fish,  barrel,  200 

*'     quintal,  112 


196  pounds. 
Honey,  gallon,  12         " 

Molasses,  hhd.,   130  to  150  gallons. 
Salt,  barrel,  3>4  bushels. 

'*    bushel,  70  pounds. 
Sugar,  barrel,  200  to  250  pounds. 
Soap,  barrel,  256         " 

♦•     box,  75        *' 

Tea,  chest,        60  to  84        '* 


212 


.:i."\.v^ 


w. 


FOODS. 


HYGIENIC  AND  SCIENTIFIC 

At  this  age  of  applied  science  it  has  become  the  duty  of  every 
housewife  to  know  something  of  the  food  with  which  she  supplies 
her  household.  Most  persons  have  had  some  vague  ideas  of  the 
relative  values  of  different  foods,  and  of  the  changes  they  undergo 
in  cooking.  These  theories  they  have  probably  learned  from  their 
mothers,  gleaned  from  their  neighbors,  or  read  in  some  paper.  Per- 
haps they  have  accepted  them  as  facts,  but  at  some  time  or  other 
they  read  or  hear  something  that  contradicts  them  and  then  they  are 
at  a  loss  to  know  what  to  believe  or  what  not  to  believe.  At  some 
time  they  have  been  convinced  that  people  ate  too  much,  at  another, 
that  meat  was  the  all-strengthener,  or  they  may  have  been  afflicted 
with  the  vegetarian  fad.  Surely  they  would  not  have  pinned  their 
faith  to  one-sided  diets  if  they  had  rightly  comprehended  the  main 
facts  of  nutrition. 

In  the  following  pages  an  effort  has  been  made  to  present  some- 
thing of  the  facts  in  regard  to  the  composition  of  food,  the  part  the 
different  kinds  of  foods  take  in  the  nutrition  of  the  body,  together 
with  something  of  the  change  that  is  effected  by  cooking  and  the 
process  of  digestion. 

Foods  are  classified  by  all  leading  authorities,  excluding  the 
oxygen  we  breathe,  into  five  great  classes. 

1.  Water,  3.  Proteids, 

3.  Fats,  4.  Carbohydrates, 

5.  Salts  or  mineral  constituents. 

WATER. 

Water,  in  one  sense  is  not  a  food,  but  it  fills  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant offices  in  the  nutrition  of  the  body.  It  constitutes  about 
three-fourths  of  the  weight  of  the  body.     It  is  found  in  the  mus- 

213 


214 


WOODS, 


cles  and  bones,  but  abounds  in  the  blood  and  seci'etions.  It  holds 
in  solution  the  important  material  they  contain,  and  by  giving  the 
necessary  fluidity  to  the  blood  transports  this  material  to  the  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  body  and  conveys  away  that  which  has  fulfilled 
its  mission. 

Water  is  also  the  great  regulator  of  heat,  and  by  its  evaporation 
reduces  any  excessive  temperature  of  the  body. 

Besides  the  water  we  take  in  the  form  of  beverages,  we  obtain 
some  in  all  of  our  solid  food.  The  amount  contained  in  them  va- 
ries from  1  to  98  per  cent.  The  vegetables,  such  as  cabbages,  car- 
rots, cauliflowers,  cucumbers,  onions,  parsnips,  squash,  tomatoes 
and  turnips,  and  also  the  different  fruits,  are  mostly  water. 

PHOTEIDS. 

The  pre  teids  are  also  known  as  albuminous  foods,  and  nitroge- 
nous or  flesh-forming  foods.  The  latter  is  the  most  significant  and 
is  so-called  because  this  class  of  foods  contains  a  large  proportion 
of  the  element  nitrogen. 

We  find  nitrogen  in  our  muscles  and  muscular  tissues.  We  also 
find  it  the  product  of  their  decomposition.  Hence,  if  the  wear  of 
these  tissues  causes  the  liberation  of  nitrogenous  compounds,  this 
loss  must  be  replaced  by  some  food  that  contains  nitrogen.  The 
fats  and  carbohydrates  do  not.  Besides  this  function,  the  pro- 
teids  are  considered  as  the  stimulating  foods,  or  those  that  impart 
a  speed  and  energy  to  the  organs  above  that  necessary  to  perfect 
nutrition. 

The  nitrogenous  foods  are  derived  from  both  the  animal  and  veg- 
etable kingdoms  and  are  found  in  eggs,  lean  meat,  fish,  milk,  cheese, 
leguminous  plants  and  the  cereals.  The  different  proteid  principle 
of  each  is  known  as  albumen,  fibrine,  casein  and  gluten. 

The  digestion  of  this  class  of  foods  is  not  well  known.  In  the 
mouth  they  should  be  finely  comminuted,  as  the  chemical  action 
is  rapid  in  proportion  to  the  fineness  of  division.  The  first  chem- 
ical change  takes  place  in  the  stomach,  and  the  agents  are  pepsin 
and  the  acid  of  the  gastric  juice.  The  two  together  render  the 
nitrogenous  substance  soluble  and  capable  of  passing  through  a 
membrane. 


FOOI>S.  215 

EGGS. 

[Rie  proteid  of  the  egg  is  known  as  albumen,  from  albus,  mean- 
ing white.  Eggs  contain  73.67  per  cent  water,  12.55  per  cent  al- 
bumen and  12.11  per  cent  fat.  They  are  considered  by  some 
physiologists  to  be  the  most  easily  digested  of  this  class  of  foods. 
Phj^sicians  say  that  they  are  as  digestible  raw  as  cooked. 

The  raw  white  of  an  egg  is  a  colorless,  semi-liquid  and  viscous 
substance,  soluble  in  cold  water.  If  we  place  some  in  a  glass  tube 
with  a  thermometer  and  heat  it,  we  will  observe  the  following 
changes.  When  the  temperature  of  134^  is  reached  white  fibers 
appear;  at  160**  the  whole  mass  becomes  white  and  quite  opaque. 
It  is  now  coagulated,  and  in  this  condition  is  a  tender,  delicate 
and  jelly-like  substance,  and  is  easily  digestible.  Heated  to  212® 
it  shrinks  and  becomes  hard.  If  it  be  subjected  to  a  higher  tern* 
perature  it  becomes  a  homy  and  tough  substance  quite  indigestible. 

This  experiment  teaches  a  great  deal  that  is  little  understood. 
It  shows  that  the  cooking  temperature  of  albumen  is  not  212**,  the 
boiling  point  of  water,  but  160**,  and  accounts  for  the  indigestibility 
of  fried  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

MXAT. 

Under  this  head  is  included  the  flesh  of  all  animals  used  for 
food:  beef,  veal,  mutton,  pork,  poultry  and  game. 

In  the  eating  of  animal  flesh,  man  takes  advantage  of  the  work 
done  by  the  animal  in  the  preparation  of  vegetable  food.  If  we 
examine  a  piece  of  lean  meat  we  find  that  the  red  part  is  made  up, 
first,  of  very  tiny,  sausage-like  bags,  or  muscle  fibers,  as  they  are 
called,  and  in  these  are  contained  the  precious  proteid  flavors,  salts, 
and  water,  all  mixed  together;  second,  the  muscle  fibers  are  bound 
together  by  a  connective  tissue;  third,  floating  in  the  j  uices  between 
the  fibers  and  tissues  is  more  proteid. 

By  analysis  of  beef  that  is  medium  fat,  we  find  it  is  72. 25  per 
cent  water,  21.93  per  cent  proteid,  and  5.19  per  cent  fat.  The 
lean  of  well-fatted  animals  contains  as  much  as  20  per  cent  less 
water.  One  fact  worthy  of  mention  is  that  while  the  price  of  the 
tender  parts  of  the  animal  is  high,  they  contain  no  more  nutri- 


223  FOODS. 

ment  than  the  cheaper  cuts.  Indeed,  the  price  seems  to  be  in  ex- 
act inverse  ratio  to  the  amount  of  nutriment  contained. 

In  cooking  meat  the  connective  tissue  should  be  softened  and 
loosened  so  that  the  little  bundles  of  fiber,  which  contain  the  nutri- 
ment, may  fall  apart  easily  when  brought  in  contact  with  the  fork 
or  teeth;  the  albumen  and  fibrine  should  be  coagulated,  not  horn- 
ified.     By  cooking  a  more  agreeable  flavor  is  developed. 

The  albumen  of  the  meat  is  identical  with  that  of  the  egg.  If 
lean  meat  is  chopped  fine  and  allowed  to  stand  in  cold  water  an 
hour,  we  will  find  that  the  water  has  become  red.  The  water  has 
dissolved  the  albumen,  coloring  matter,  and  flavors.  If  this  liquid 
be  heated,  the  albumen  will  coagulate  and  at  a  temperature  below 
the  boiling  point. 

It  should  be  recognized  in  the  different  methods  of  cooking  meat 
that  there  are  just  three  different  results  to  be  obtained :  first,  to 
retain  all  the  nutriment  in  meat,  as  in  broiling,  roasting,  frying, 
and  boiling  ;  second,  to  extract  it  into  the  water,  as  in  soups  and 
meat  teas ;  third,  to  have  it  partly  in  the  meat  and  partly  in  the 
water,  as  in  stews. 

BROILING. 

True  broiling  is  cooking  directly  over  red-hot,  glowing  coals. 
The  meat  is  cooked  by  radiant  heat,  and  it  is  the  hottest  form  of 
cooking.  The  object  to  be  obtained  is  to  keep  the  juices  within 
the  meat.  How  is  it  to  be  accomplished?  We  have  seen  that  heat 
coagulates  albumen.  Have  the  meat  cut  in  a  slice,  from  an  inch  to 
an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness,  and  placed  in  a  broiler.  Put  it 
directly  over  the  coals  and  very  near  to  them.  The  albumen  on 
the  outside  is  instantly  seared,  and  thus  hardened  presents  a  bar- 
rier through  which  the  juices  cannot  escape.  Before  they  have  an 
opportunity  of  rising  and  passing  out  from  the  other  side,  we  turn 
the  meat  and  the  second  side  is  treated  to  the  same  process. 

Now,  by  allowing  the  meat  to  remain  a  few  minutes  over  the 
coals  tlie  water  inside  is  heated  ,  to  ISO''.  The  heat  of  the  water 
coagulates  the  albumen,  and  the  combined  presence  of  liquid  and 
heat  softens  the  connective  tissues.  Some  of  the  water  is  changed 
to  steam  and  this  gives  the  meat  a  puffed  appearance.   When  these 


FOODS.  217 

three  things  are  accomplished,  the  meat  is  cooked,  and  when  eaten 
it  is  found  to  be  juicy,  tender,  and  well-flavored.  One  other  thing 
has  been  done,  namely,  the  browning  of  the  surface.  This  is  due, 
probably,  to  the  caramelizing  of  the  albumen,  and  it  is  found  to 
possess  an  entirely  different  flavor,  but  one  that  is  very  agreeable. 

Had  the  cooking  of  the  steak  been  prolonged,  the  result  would 
have  been  an  ill-cooked  specimen,  tough,  desiccated,  shriveled  and 
tasteless,  due  to  the  evaporation  of  the  juices,  the  loss  of  the  vol- 
atile flavors,  and  the  consequent  hardening  of  the  albumen  and 
tissue. 

As  broiling  is  a  very  quick  method  of  cooking,  only  meat  of 
very  tender  fiber  is  suitable,  as  there  is  neither  time  nor  moisture 
to  soften  that  which  is  tough. 

Are  not  these  facts  forcible  enough  to  settle  the  question  as  to 
whether  meat  is  more  digestible  rare  than  well  done?  The  preju- 
dice against  rare-done  meat  is  largely  due  to  an  erroneous  idea  of 
what  is  meant  by  that  expression.  Order  a  rare-cooked  steak  at 
any  restaurant  or  hotel,  and  the  waiter  will  set  before  you  one  that 
is  raw  in  the  inside.  This  is  a  raw  steak  and  not  a  rare  one.  A 
rare  steak  is  pink  throughout,  and  not  purple  anywhere. 

ROASTING. 

Roasting  is  identical  with  broiling,  except  that  we  have  the 
meat  in  a  cubical  form,  and  a  smaller  surface  in  proportion  to  the 
weight.  The  surface  may  be  seared  by  a  hot  oven,  in  a  frying 
pan,  or  by  a  bath  in  hot  fat. 

BOILING. 

As  in  boiling  we  have  additional  moisture,  and  a  longer  time 
may  be  used  in  the  cooking,  meat  of  a  tougher  fiber  may  be  ap- 
propriately cooked  by  this  method.  The  imprisonment  of  the 
juices  is  accomplished  by  immersing  the  meat  in  the  boiling  water, 
which  coagulates  on  the  outside.  After  boiling  for  10  minutes, 
the  temperature  should  be  lowered  to  180^  as  we  do  not  wish  the 
inside  temperature  to  be  higher  than  that.  More  or  less  of  the 
nutriment  finds  its  way  into  the  water,  consequently  this  liquid 
should  be  utilized. 

While  on  the  subject  of   boiling,  it  will  not  be  out  of  place  to 


218  FOODS. 

say  something  in  regard  to  a  fact  which  is  not  practically  under- 
stood by  cooks.  We  have  learned  by  the  preceding  experiment 
that  the  cooking  point  of  meat  is  not  the  boiling  point  of  water. 
But  many  foods,  especially  vegetables,  are  best  cooked  at  the  boil- 
ing temperature.  If  a  thermometer  be  placed  in  water  while  be- 
ing heated,  the  mercury  will  steadily  rise  until  the  water  is  boil- 
ing, or  212*^  is  reached,  when  it  will  become  stationary  and  remain 
so  although  much  additional  heat  be  applied,  and  the  water  be 
made  to  boil  violentl}'.  If  this  fact  were  understood  and  observed, 
much  precious  fuel  might  be  saved.  When  the  boiling  point  is 
once  reached,  very  little  heat  is  needed  to  keep  it  at  this  point. 
All  the  surplus  heat  is  spent  in  changing  the  water  to  steam.  For 
all  ordinary  cooking,  gently  boiling  water  is  as  effective  as  if  it 
boils  rapidly. 

FRYING. 

In  frying,  which  is  properly  cooking  by  immersion  in  hot  fat, 
the  cooking  medium  is  fat,  instead  of  water  as  in  boiling.  The 
temperature  of  the  fat  should  be  about  385".  As  any  escape  of 
water  into  the  hot  fat  causes  great  commotion,  an  additional  pre- 
caution is  taken  by  enveloping  the  meat  or  food  to  be  fried,  in  a 
coating  of  crumbs,  and  eggs,  or  in  the  case  of  mixtures,  as  dough- 
nuts, the  egg  is  added  to  the  mixture  itself.  This  also  prevents 
the  food  from  absorbing  fat.     The  reason  of  this  is  obvious. 

SOUP-MAKING. 

In  soap-making,  a  contrary  result  is  to  be  obtained  from  that  of 
boiling  and  roasting.  The  juices  are  to  be  transferred  to  the 
water.  Meat  that  is  so  tough  and  coarse  as  to  be  undesirable  for 
cooking  by  any  other  method,  may  be  utilized  by  this  one.  We 
have  seen  that  the  juices  and  albumen  of  meat  are  readily  soluble 
in  cold  water,  and  this  principle  should  be  applied  by  allowing  the 
meat  to  stand  in  cold  water  for  at  least  an  hour,  and  in  order  that 
more  surface  be  exposed  to  its  action  the  meat  should  be  cut  into 
small  pieces.  It  may  then  be  heated  to  a  temperature  of  200", 
that  degree  being  necessary  to  dissolve  the  gelatine  of  the  bones. 
The  skimming  and  clearing  of  soups  should  be  avoided  if  a  nutri- 


FOODS.  219 

tious  soup  is  desired,  for  by  so  doing  we  remove  the  coagulated 
albumen, 

STEWING. 

In  stewing  we  eat  both  the  meat  and  broth.  It  is  a  desirable 
method  for  cooking  the  tougher  and  cheaper  parts  of  meat.  Braiz- 
ing and  pot^roasting  are  forms  of  stewing,  and  are  methods  with 
which  every  housekeeper  should  be  familiar  if  economy  is  an  item 
of  consideration. 

PISH. 

Fish,  because  of  its  abundance,  cheapness,  and  wholesomenees, 
is  an  invaluable  article  of  food.  It  contains  more  water  and  less 
solid  material  than  meat,  is  rich  in  nitrogen,  and  has  an  alkaline 
taste. 

Red-blooded  fish,  as  salmon,  mackerel,  and  blue  fish,  have  the 
oil  distributed  through  the  body,  whUe  the  white  fish,  as  cod,  had- 
dock, halibut  and  flounder,  have  it  in  the  liver.  The  latter  fish  is 
very  digestible  when  perfectly  fresh.  Fresh  fish  may  be  told  by 
the  fullness  of  the  eye  and  the  firmness  of  the  flesh. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese  is  the  coagulated  casein  of  milk,  together  with  some  fat 
and  sugar.  The  casein,  the  albumen  of  milk,  is  coagulated  by  an 
acid  obtained  from  rennet.  By  allowing  the  cheese  to  ripen,  a  fer- 
ment is  developed.  The  presence  of  this  ferment  is  the  reason 
that  a  small  quantity  taken  with  food  aids  in  digestion. 

Milk  cheese  contains  48. 02  percent,  water,  32.65  per  cent,  pro- 
teid,  8. 41  per  cent,  fat,  and  6. 80  per  cent,  sugar.  Comparing  this  an- 
alysis with  that  of  meat,  we  find  it  to  be  much  richer  in  proteids. 
This,  together  with  its  low  price,  makes  it  a  valuable  substitute 
for  the  more  expensive  meat.  It  is  much  used  as  such  in  many 
countries  of  Europe.     It  is  not  considered  easy  of  digestion. 

GELATINE. 

Gelatine  is  a  substance  obtained  from  the  bones,  the  gelatinous 
tissues  of  animal  flesh,  and  from  certain  parts  of  fishes. 

If  its  nutritive  value  could  be  estimated  by  the  nitrogen  it  con- 
tains, it  would,  indeed,  rank  high.  Its  value  as  a  food,  and  the 
part  it  performs  in  nutrition,  is  not  fully  understood.      Exagger- 


220  ^"'C^ODS. 

ated  ideas  of  its  value  have  been  entertained.  Our  grandmothers 
believed  it  to  be  highly  nutritious,  prepared  it  in  the  form  of  jel- 
lies for  invalids,  and  estimated  the  value  of  their  soups  by  the 
consistency  of  the  jelly  they  formed  on  cooling,  which  thickness  is 
due  to  the  gelatine  they  contain.  No  doubt  many  a  victim  has 
died  of  starvation  by  the  reliance  of  nurses  upon  this  theory. 

It  has  been  demonstrated  that  gelatine  alone  cannot  sustain 
life,  but  it  is  now  believed  that  if  taken  in  conjunction  with  other 
food  it  is  of  some  worth.  Its  inability  to  sustain  life  may  be  ac- 
counted for  by  the  fact  that  it  is  not  changed  in  digestion,  so  that 
it  will  pass  through  a  membrane  readily,  and  therefore  only  a  small 
portion  can  pass  into  the  circulation.  Nevertheless  it  is  not  un- 
wholesome, and  is  a  convenient  vehicle  for  conveying  food,  partic- 
ularly to  invalids. 

LEGUMINOUS  FOODS. 

Under  this  head  are  peas,  beans,  and  lentils.  Beans  contain 
14.84  per  cent,  water,  23.66  per  cent,  proteids,  1.63  per  cent,  fat, 
49.25  per  cent,  starch,  and  7.47  per  cent,  woody  fiber.  Peas 
contain  14.31  percent,  water,  22.63  per  cent,  proteids,  1.72  per 
cent,  fat,  53. 24  per  cent,  starch,  and  5. 45  per  cent,  of  woody  fiber. 

Observe  the  remarkable  percentage  of  proteids  they  contain.  The 
legumes  are  less  stimulating  and  palatable  than  meat,  but  the  pro- 
teid  needs  of  the  body  can  be  supplied  by  them.  One  of  the  best 
ways  of  serving  them  is  in  the  form  of  a  soup,  as  then  the  hull  is 
entirely  removed. 

CEREALS. 

Under  this  head  are  included  corn,  wheat,  oats,  barley,  buck- 
wheat, and  rice.     The  following  is  the  analysis: 


WOODY 

WATER,        PEOTEID, 

FAT, 

SUGAR, 

STARCH, 

FIBER, 

per  ct.        per  ct. 

per  ct. 

per  ct. 

per  ct. 

per  ct. 

Wheat, 

13.56             12.43 

1.70 

1.44 

66.45 

2.66 

Rye, 

15.26             11.43 

1.71 

.96 

66.86 

2.01 

Barley, 

13.78             11.16 

2.13 

65.51 

4.80 

Oats, 

12.92             11.73 

6.04 

2.22 

53.21 

10.83 

Maize, 

13.88             10.05 

4.76 

4.59 

62.19 

2.84 

Rice, 

14.41               6.94 

.51 

77.61 

.08 

Too  much  cannot  be  said 

in  favor  of  these  grains^  par 

ticularly  of 

FOODS.  221 

corn,  wheat,  and  oats.  They  contain  all  the  elements  necessary 
for  the  complete  nutrition  of  the  body,  and  in  wheat  they  are  in 
the  correct  proportions.  Corn  and  oats  contain  an  excess  of  fat. 
The  proteids  of  these  grains  are  known  as  gluten.  Their  low  price 
places  them  within  the  reach  of  all.  They  are  prepared  as  a  break- 
fast food  and  are  ground  as  meal  and  flour. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

This  third  great  division  of  foods  includes  the  starches  and 
sugars.  They,  together  with  the  fats,  are  classed  as  the  carbona- 
ceous foods,  because  they  contain  a  large  proportion  of  the  ele- 
ment carbon.  The  carbohydrates  contain  carbon,  and  the  elements 
of  water,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  not  as  water,  but  in  the  same  pro- 
portion as  water,  namely,  two  parts  of  hydrogen  to  one  of  oxygen. 
The  carbonaceous  foods  are  the  great  heat-producing  foods,  and 
just  as  the  carbon  and  hydrogen  of  fuel  unite  with  the  oxygen  of 
the  air  and  produce  heat,  so  the  carbon  and  hydrogen  of  our  food 
unite  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air  we  breathe  and  produce  the  heat 
of  our  bodies.  Besides  this  office  the  carbohydrates  are  probably 
the  great  source  of  energy,  and  a  portion  of  them  may  be  depos- 
ited in  the  body  as  fat.     They  are  of  vegetable  origin. 

STARCHES. 

Starch  is  a  white,  glistening  powder,  insoluble  in  cold  water,  and 
when  heated  with  water,  swells,  and  the  starch  grains  burst,  forming 
a  thick  gummy  solution.  When  cool  it  stiffens  into  a  pasty  mass. 
Starch  is  eaten  chiefly  in  the  form  of  arrowroot,  tapioca,  sago,  rice, 
potatoes,  cereals,  and  the  legumes.  But  from  whatever  source  de- 
rived, the  chemical  composition  is  the  same.  Cg  H^^^  0^.  The 
starches  are  the  cheapest  of  the  food  constituents,  and  are  there- 
fore apt  to  be  in  excess.    They  give  the  necessary  bulk  to  our  food. 

Starch,  when  heated  to  a  high  temperature,  is  changed  to  dex- 
trine, which  does  not  differ  from  starch  in  chemical  composition. 
Dextrine  is  a  brittle  solid  and  soluble  in  cold  water.  It  has  an 
agreeable,  sweet  flavor.  It  is  produced  in  small  quantities  in  the 
crust  in  the  baking  of  bread  and  in  the  making  of  toast.  In  di- 
gestion the  starch  is  changed  to  glucose.     This  is  accomplished  by 


222  FOODS. 

the  heat  of  the  body  and  the  action  of  the  saliva  of  the  mouth  and 
the  pancreatic  juice  in  the  intestines. 

SUGARS. 

The  sugars  are  a  more  expensive  form  of  heat-producers,  and 
are  used  chiefly  for  their  flavoring  qualities.  They  are  closely  re- 
lated to  the  starches  and  nearly  resemble  them  in  chemical  compo- 
sition. They  are  known  by  their  sweet  taste  and  are  soluble  in 
cold  water  and  are  capable  of  breaking  up  into  alcohol  and  carbon 
dioxide.     They  are  valuable  for  their  preserving  qualities. 

There  are  different  varieties  of  sugar,  but  the  most  important  to 
us  are  cane  sugar  or  sucrose,  and  grape  sugar  or  glucose.  Su- 
crose, Cjg  Hgg  Oj^,  is  common  sugars 'and  is  obtained  from  the 
sugar  cane,  sugar  beet,  and  rock  maple.  It  is  the  sweetest  of  all 
the  sugars,  and  is  soluble  in  one-third  of  its  weight  of  water.  Su- 
crose, when  boiled  in  contact  with  air,  and  especially  if  an  acid  be 
present,  becomes  changed  into  two  kinds  of  sugar;  dextrose  Cg  H^^  Og , 
identical  with  glucose  and  levulose,  Cg  H^^  O^.  Thus  their  chem- 
ical composition  is  identical.     Both  kinds  are  often  called  glucose. 

Glucose  is  found  in  grapes  and  is  present  in  the  sacs  of  flowers; 
it  is  the  source  of  honey.  Griucose  can  be  manufactured  from  all 
kinds  of  starch  and  from  cellulose,  by  the  action  of  acids.  It  is 
quite  an  easy  matter  to  change  a  cotton  handkerchief  into  more 
than  its  own  weight  of  sugar.  Glucose  has  one-third  less  sweets 
ening  power  than  sucrose,  and  this  is  the  reason  that  when  sugar 
is  boiled  with  acid  fruits  it  becomes  less  sweet. 

The  changes  that  sugar  undergoes  in  digestion  are  not  fully  un- 
derstood, yet  it  is  certain  that  sucrose  is  not  absorbed,  as  such, 
but  is  converted  into  glucose  before  it  is  assimilated.  This  change 
is  probably  effected  by  the  acid  of  the  gastric  juice. 

FATS. 

This  class  of  food  is  known  to  the  housewife  as  butter,  cream, 
salad  oil,  suet  and  lard.  It  is  taken  in  the  fat  of  meat,  the  oil  of 
fish,  in  eggs,  in  the  cereals  and  legumes.  Fats  are  lighter  than 
water  and  insoluble  in  it,  but  soluble  in  ether.  They  are  of  animal 
and  vegetable  origin.     In  whatever  form  they  are  known  they  are 


FOODS.  223 

composed  of  but  three  different  fats,  olein,  stearin,  and  pal  matin 
or  margarin. 

Olein  is  colorless  and  liquid  above  the  freezing  point.  It  is  the 
principal  fat  of  olive  oil,  but  is  found  in  the  more  solid  fats  to  a 
greater  or  less  degree.  The  solidity  and  liquidity  of  the  different 
fats  depend  upon  the  proportion  of  olein  they  contain. 

Stearin  is  a  solid  fat  and  remains  so  at  quite  a  high  tempera- 
ture. Stearin  is  the  chief  fat  of  mutton,  and  it  is  this  peculiarity 
of  stearin  that  causes  the  mouth  to  become  coated  with  fat  when 
eating  a  mutton  chop.  It  is  also  a  constituent  of  suet.  Palmatin 
resembles  stearin,  but  is  liquid  at  a  lower  temperature.  It  is  found 
in  butter. 

These  fats  are  compounds  of  the  fatty  acids,  olein,  stearin,  and 
palmatin,  with  glycerine.  They  are  called  acids,  not  because  they 
have  a  sour  taste,  but  because  they  unite  with  a  base  as  acids  do. 
Glycerine,  the  base,  is  the  sweet  principle  of  oil.  B}^  further  anal- 
ysis we  find  that  the  fats  are  compounds  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and 
oxygen.  They  contain  a  larger  proportion  of  carbon  and  oxygen 
to  hydrogen  than  the  hydro-carbons  do.  The  difference  in  the  taste 
of  the  different  fats  is  due  principally  to  the  flavoring  they  con- 
tain.    This,  almost  alone,  makes  the  difference  in  their  prices. 

The  digestibilit}^  of  the  different  fats  depends  mainly  upon  the 
readiness  with  which  they  liquify.  We  might  be  able  to  digest 
beeswax  if  it  would  become  liquid  at  the  temperature  of  our  bodies. 
Cream  is  the  most  easily  digested  and  butter  follows  next.  The 
fats  are  unaffected  by  the  juices  of  the  mouth  and  stomach.  In 
the  intestines  they  are  emulsified  by  the  admixture  of  the  bile,  and 
can  then  pass  through  a  membrane  into  the  circulation. 

Besides  the  value  of  fats  as  heat-producers,  for  which  purpose 
they  excel  the  starches  and  sugars,  they  are  deposited  as  adipose 
tissue,  aid  in  the  lubrication  of  the  muscles,  and,  without  doubt, 
are  a  source  of  energy. 

YEAST. 

Yeast  is  a  plant  of  the  fungus  growth.  It  is  found  to  consist 
of  numberless  minute  rounded  cells.  Each  little  cell  consists  of 
an  enveloping  membrane  containing  a  liquid.     They  grow  by  bud- 


224 


FOODS. 


ding  and  division.     When  they  are  provided  with  suitable  food,  | 
moisture  and  warmth  they  grow  yevy  rapidl}^    Eye  and  grapes  are 
congenial  foods,  and  also  sugar  or  something  that  can  be  changed 
into  sugar.    It  is  supposed  that  these  3'east  germs  are  present  in 
the  air.    They  are  killed  by  the  boiling  and  freezing  temperatures. 

BREAD. 

The  process  by  which  the  present  bread  is  made  light  and  porous 
is  known  as  the  alcoholic  fermentation.  Yeast  is  the  agent  used 
to  accomplish  this.  In  the  mixing  of  the  dough  each  little  grain 
of  flour  is  surrounded  by  a  film  of  water  and  the  yeast  plants  are 
scattered  throughout  the  mass.  Now,  the  yeast  plants  have  food 
in  the  starch  and  the  sugar ;  moisture,  in  the  water  or  milk,  and 
warmth,  as  the  dough  should  have  a  temperature  of  about  75®. 
They  soon  begin  to  grow.  The  starch  of  the  flour  is  changed  to 
glucose. 

Ce  H„  0,  +  H,  0  +  ferment  =  C,  H,,  O, 

starch,         water,  glucose. 

This  glucose  is  quickly  changed  into  alcohol  and  carbon  di-oxide. 

r  2  Cg  Hg  0  alcohol, 
Ce  H,,  0,  =  ]      and 

(^  2  C  O3  carbon  di-oxide. 

Carbon  di-oxide  is  a  gas  and  is  commonly  known  as  carbonic 
acid  gas.  It  is  the  evolution  of  this  gas  that  is  set  free  from  all 
parts  of  the  dough  which  causes  it  to  rise  and  increase  in  bulk. 
In  the  baking  of  a  loaf  of  bread  this  gas  is  expanded  and  partially 
driven  out  by  the  heat.  The  starch  cells  are  ruptured ;  the  cells 
which  contain  the  gas  are  hardened ;  the  yeast  plant  is  killed ;  the 
alcohol  is  evaporated,  and  some  of  the  starch  of  the  crust,  being 
heated  to  a  higher  temperature,  is  changed  to  dextrine.  The  tem- 
perature of  the  inside  of  the  loaf  does  not  exceed  212®. 


EVERY  WOMAN'S 
LIBRARY 

Edited  by  Margaret  E.  Sangster,  Dr.  Emma  E.  Walker, 
Hamilton  W.  Mabie  and  others. 

Covers  Every  Phase  oi  Woman's  Realm 

No  book  ever  published  contains  so  much  value  to  the  up- 
to-date  woman  as  this  set  of  Every  Woman's  Library. 
Each  volume  is  full  of  practical,  needed  advise  on  Health 
and  Beauty  .Etiquette,  Entertaining,  Housekeeping,  Cook- 
ing, Reading  and  Study,  Home  Life  and  Ways  of  earning 
money;  and  is  written  by  the  leading  authorities  on  women's 
subjects. 

There  are  seven  volumes  in  the  set,  and  each  volume  is 
devoted  to  one  subject  as  follows: 

Vol.  I  Beauty  and  Health,  by  Dr  Emma  E.  Walker 

Vol.  II  Etiquette,  by  Eleanor  B.  Clapp 

Vol.  in       Entertainments   and    Games,    by  Clara  E. 
Laughlin. 

Vol.  IV      House  and  Housekeeping,  by  Mary  Eliza- 
beth Carter. 

Vol.  V        Home  and  Home  Study,  by  Hamilton  W. 
Mabie  and  Henry  van  Dyke. 

Vol.  VI      Ideal  Home  Life,  by  Margaret  E.  Sangster 
and  Marion  Harland. 

Vol.  VII     Woman's    Ways    of    Earning    Money,    by 
Cynthia  Westover  Alden. 

Each  volume  is  bound  in  uniform  pea  green  cloth,  neatly 
stamped  design.  Printed  in  good  sized  readable  type  on 
good  quality  paper.  Each  volume  is  4  x  6i  inches  and  con- 
tains nearly  300  pages.  Each  set  of  volumes  packed  in  a 
box.  sent  prepaid  for  $2.00  or  given  free  for  securing  only 
6  yearly  subscriptions  for  EVERY  WOMAN'S  MAGAZINE 
at  50  cents  each. 


SEND  ORDERS  TO 

EVERY    WOMAN'S    MAGAZINE 


149  WEST  36lh  ST. 


8      NEW  YORK  CITY 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Bread 7 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes 27 

Crullers  and  Doughnuts 67 

Cake 58 

Cookies  and  Jumbles 71 

Confectionery 76 

Cook's  Time  Table 209 

Desserts  85 

Drinks 108 

Eggs 112 

Fish 118 

Fruits 124 

Fruit  Sauces 156 

Fillings  for  Layer  Cake 67 

Foods — Hygienic  and  Scientific 212 

Griddle  Cakes 56 

Ginger  Bread ,.  7S 

Ginger  Snaps 74 

How  to  Carve  Meat 184 

Icing  68 

Ice  Cream  and  Ices 161 

Meats ; 167 

Nut  Wafers 75 

Pastry 97 

Puddings 104 

Pudding  Sauces 105 

Relishes 186 

Salads : 189 

Soups 196 

Table  of  weights  and  Measures 211 

Toasts 93 

Vegetables 203 


m  13  1911 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


^^C    13   j^^j 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  489  509  5     * 


