THIf  DOOKIX  A  PART 
OF  THE  LIDR.AR.Y  OF  = 


^J 


From  the  collection  of  the 


111 


^        m 


jTin 

L 


o  PreTinger 


V     i^ibrary 
p 


San  Francisco,  California 
2006 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

Microsoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/experimentalcookOOIowerich 


EXPERIMENTAL  COOKERY 


BOOKS  IN  HOME  ECONOMICS 

Household  Equipment.  Second  Edition.  By 
Louise  Jenison  Feet  and  Lenore  E.  Sater. 

A  Functioning  Program  or  Home  Economics. 
By  I  vol  Spafford. 

A  Guide  to  Textiles.  By  Mary  Evans  and  Ellen 
Beers  McGowan. 

Adult  Education  in  Homemaking.  By  L.  Belle 
Pollard. 

The  Consumer-Buyer  and  the  Market.  By 
Jessie  V.  Coles. 

Food  Service  in  Institutions.  By  Bessie  Brooks 
West  and  LeVelle  Wood. 

Fundamentals  of  Textiles,  A  Workbook.  By 
Eda  A .  Jacobsen  and  Helen  E.  McCullough. 

Food  for  Fifty.  By  Sina  Faye  Fowler  and  Bessie 
Brooks  West. 

Fundamentals  in  Teaching  Home  Economics. 
By  I  vol  Spafford. 

Home  Furnishing.   By  Anna  H.  Rutt. 

Economics  of  Household  Production.  By 
Margaret  G.  Reid. 

Food  Preparation.  Second  Edition.  By  Marion 
Deyoe  Sweetman. 

Manual  for  Food  Preparation  Study.  By 
Florence  B.  King. 

Experimental  Cookery  from  the  Chemical  and 
Physical  Standpoint.  Second  Edition.  By 
Belle  Lowe. 

Food  Preparation  Studies.  Second  Edition.  By 
the  late  Alice  M.  Child  and  Kathryn  Bete  Niles. 

Food  Preparation  Recipes.  By  the  late  Alice  M. 
Child  and  Kathry^i  Bele  Niles. 


EXPERIMENTAL 
COOKERY 

From  the  Chemical  and  Physical  Standpoint 


BY 
BELLE  LOWE 

Professor^  Foods  and  Nutrition 
Iowa  State  College 


WITH  A  LABORATORY  OUTLINE 


SECOND  EDITION 


NEW  YORK 

JOHN  WILEY  &  SONS,  Inc. 
London:  CHAPMAN  &  HALL,  Limited 


Copyright,  1932,  1937 
By  Belle  Lowe 


All  Rights  Reserved 
This  book  or  any  part  thereof  must  not 
be    reproduced    in    any  form    without 
the  written  permission  of  the  publisher. 


Printed  in  the  U.  S,  A.  3/41 


'HE    HADDON    CRAFTSMEN,    INC. 
CAMDEN,     N.     J. 


TO 

ELIZABETH  MILLER  KOCH 

with 

acknowledgment  of  help^ 

inspiration^  and  encouragement 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

I.  The  Relation  of  Cookery  to  Colloid  Chemistry   ....  1 

II.  Sugar   Cookery    31 

III.  Freezing    83 

IV.  Fruits  and  Vegetables   103 

V.  Jelly  152 

VI.  Gelatin 178 

VII.  Meat 194 

VIII.  Emulsions    266 

IX.  Milk  and  Cheese   293 

X.  Egg  Cookery  323 

XL  Flour  and  Bread 391 

XII.  Batters  and  Doughs 447 

XIII.  Fats  and  Oils 542 

Index 585 


INTRODUCTION 

The  principal  function  of  this  volume  is  to  present  our  newer  knowl- 
edge of  food  preparation  and  cookery  processes  from  a  chemical  and  physi- 
cal basis,  particularly  that  of  colloid  chemistry.  In  doing  this,  many  results 
secured  from  experimental  work  along  these  lines  at  Iowa  State  College 
have  been  included.  A  condensed  arrangement  of  the  data  on  cookery, 
which  are  found  in  widely  scattered  sources,  has  been  included  also. 

Many  of  the  sciences  serve  as  a  foundation  or  basis  for  food  prepara- 
tion. Inorganic,  organic,  physical,  and  plant  chemistry,  as  well  as  physics 
and  other  sciences,  are  necessary  for  an  adequate  understanding  of  many 
processes  in  food  preparation.  But  the  subject  matter  herein  covered  is 
perhaps  more  closely  related  to  physical  chemistry  and  the  branch  of 
physical  chemistry  known  as  colloid  chemistry.  In  fact,  so  many  of  the 
ingredients  used  in  food  preparation  are  colloidal  in  nature  that  food 
preparation  may  be  classed  as  one  field  of  applied  colloid  chemistry.  As 
a  phase  of  colloid  chemistry  it  offers  a  vast  field  for  exploration,  for 
although  commercially  prepared  foods  have  been  studied  extensively  the 
problems  in  connection  with  their  preparation  are  far  from  completed. 
Work  along  other  lines  of  cookery  has  hardly  started.  Some  of  the  older 
work  on  cookery  needs  to  be  repeated  and  explained  in  the  light  of  newer 
interpretations  of  science. 

Because  the  majority  of  home  economics  students  have  had  no  oppor- 
tunity to  take  even  an  elementary  course  in  physical  or  colloid  chemistry, 
it  becomes  necessary  to  present  a  simple  outline  and  explanation  of  col- 
loid chemistry  in  its  relation  to  food  preparation.  Since  this  is  the  founda- 
tion material  for  this  treatise  it  seems  logical  to  present  it  first.  But  to 
many  persons  this  is  the  newest  and  perhaps  the  most  difficult  subject 
matter  in  relation  to  food  preparation.  Therefore,  it  is  probably  better  for 
the  student  to  commence  with  the  chapters  on  sugar  cookery,  freezing,  and 
fruits  and  vegetables,  referring  only  to  the  few  paragraphs  in  Chapter  I 
needed  to  understand  some  of  the  factors  of  sugar  cookery  and  freezing. 
A  fundamental  understanding  of  sugar  cookery  and  freezing  preparation 
processes  is  based  largely  upon  the  portion  of  physical  chemistry  dealing 
with  solutions,  vapor  pressure,  the  boiling  point,  and  the  freezing  point. 
This  material  is  outlined  in  these  chapters.  But  to  present  the  material 
on  colloid  chemistry  in  such  a  manner  in  every  chapter  would  lead  to 
many  repetitions  and  make  the  book  unduly  long.  Hence  this  material  is 
summarized  in  Chapter  I,  although  the  author  realized  that  it  would  prob- 
ably be  necessary  to  review  or  to  present  portions  of  this  chapter  in  connec- 
tion with  subsequent  ones. 


X  INTRODUCTION 

Many  contradictory  observations  are  often  made  in  cookery.  This  is 
to  be  expected,  particularly  when  the  materials  used  are  in  a  colloidal 
state.  Unless  the  constituents  of  food  products  are  present  in  the  same 
amount,  and,  even  if  present  in  the  same  proportion,  if  the  colloidal 
particles  are  not  the  same  size,  if  the  previous  treatment,  including  the 
thermal  and  mechanical  treatment  and  the  time  element,  is  not  exactly 
duplicated,  then  even  an  elementary  knowledge  of  colloid  chemistry  leads 
one  to  expect  different  results  in  finished  products,  because  of  variation 
of  these  different  factors.  It  is  not  possible  to  control  all  these  factors.  For 
instance,  the  variation  in  ash  content  of  flour,  eggs,  milk,  meat,  fruits,  and 
vegetables  is  nearly  always  beyond  our  control.  But  the  necessity  for  a 
detailed  description  of  the  technic  and  method  followed  in  reporting 
results  is  obvious.  Detailed  directions  in  writing  the  laboratory  outline 
are  essential  or  the  technics  followed  may  vary  so  much  that  the  results 
are  worthless  for  comparisons.  It  is  of  course  understood  that  adequate 
explanations  cannot  be  offered  for  all  cookery  processes.  In  some  instances 
it  is  necessary  to  determine  the  results  time  after  time  and  let  the  theory 
fit  the  laboratory  facts.  In  other  cases  the  explanations  offered  will  need 
to  be  changed,  modified,  or  replaced  by  data  obtained  from  future  investi- 
gations. 

In  starting  the  laboratory  work  the  author  asks  her  students  to  assume 
the  attitude  that  every  result  obtained  is  right.  If  it  is  not  as  expected, 
what  are  the  reasons?  For  example,  a  burned,  charred  product  results  from 
certain  procedures.  If,  when  students  have  used  the  same  proportions,  the 
same  ingredients,  and  tried  to  follow  the  same  technic,  the  individual 
results  differ,  what  are  the  possible  interpretations  for  the  divergence?  In 
the  same  manner  the  reported  results  of  other  investigators  are  taken  as 
correct.  If  the  students'  laboratory  results  do  not  always  agree  with 
reported  results,  interest  comes  in  comparing  methods  used,  the  ingredients 
used,  their  proportion,  and  the  technic  followed,  to  find  explanations  for 
agreement  or  disagreement. 

It  is  hoped  that  this  volume  will  fill  a  need  for  a  textbook  for  discus- 
sion material  for  food-preparation  courses  in  colleges  and  as  a  reference 
work  for  teachers  of  secondary  schools.  It  is  also  hoped  that  the  reference 
to  and  summary  of  articles  in  the  literature  will  create  an  interest  on 
the  part  of  the  student  to  read  and  interpret  them  for  herself. 

Food-preparation  study  in  colleges  may  include  courses  designated  as 
experimental  cookery.  The  material  in  this  book  may  be  given  in  such 
courses.  The  manual  "Food  Preparation  Studies"  by  Child-Niles-Kolshorn 
will  also  be  an  aid  in  these  courses. 

To  some  the  term  experimental  cookery  implies  only  a  method  of 
presenting  material.  Such  is  not  the  use  of  the  expression  in  this  volume. 
It  is  used  to  designate  a  certain  field  of  subject  matter  relating  to  food 
preparation.  The  laboratory  outline  included  in  this  volume  is  arranged 
to  present  this  subject  matter  as  far  as  possible. 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

What  constitutes  or  should  constitute  experimental-cookery  courses 
cannot  be  answered  fully  at  the  present  time.  They  are  of  necessity  rapidly 
developing  and  changing.  The  author  believes  that  eventually  they  vs^ill 
have  the  same  relation  to  food-preparation  courses  that  those  in  animal 
feeding  have  to  nutrition  courses. 

The  author  takes  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  with  appreciation 
the  comments  of  Dr.  P.  Mabel  Nelson,  Florence  Busse  Smith,  Alma 
Plagge,  Viola  M.  Bell,  and  the  other  members  of  the  Foods  and  Nutrition 
staff  of  Iowa  State  College.  The  aid  of  Dr.  Amy  Le  Vesconte  for  many 
/>H  determinations  is  also  acknowledged. 

To  Dr.  E.  A.  Benbrook  and  Margaret  Sloss  of  the  Veterinary  Depart- 
ment the  author  is  indebted  for  aid  in  taking  photo-micrographs. 

For  reading  portions  of  the  manuscript  and  for  the  suggestions  they 
have  offered,  the  author  is  also  indebted  to  Dr.  E.  I.  Fulmer  (the  chapter 
on  the  Relation  of  Cookery  to  Colloid  Chemistry)  ;  to  Prof.  M.  Mortensen 
and  Prof.  C.  E.  Iverson  (the  chapter  on  Freezing)  ;  to  Dr.  R.  M.  Hixon 
(the  chapter  on  Fruits  and  Vegetables)  ;  to  Dr.  Paul  E.  Howe  and  Prof. 
M.  D.  Helser  (the  chapter  on  Meat)  ;  to  Prof.  M.  Mortensen,  Dr.  E. 
W.  Bird,  and  Dr.  B.  W.  Hammer  (the  chapter  on  Milk)  ;  and  to  Ethan 
E.  Hoovler  (the  entire  book). 

To  the  many  students  in  her  "Experimental  Foods"  classes  who  through 
their  interest  and  enthusiasm  have  always  been  a  stimulus  to  further  work, 
the  author  wishes  to  express  her  most  grateful  appreciation. 


EXPERIMENTAL  COOKERY 


CHAPTER  I 

THE  RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID 
CHEMISTRY 

The  early  lines  of  food  work  cannot  be  expressed  better  than  in  the 
words  of  Ostwald  (1922).  "Scientific  study  of  the  field  still  contents  itself 
with  chapters  on  analysis  and  the  recognition  of  adulterants,  but  chapters 
dealing  with  the  preparation  of  food  are  hardly  started.  Much  as  every  one 
would  like  to  obtain  better  food  for  less  money,  study  of  such  questions 
is  regarded  as  menial  and  best  left  to  the  cook.  A  scientific  study  of  the 
preparation  of  food  is  considered  as  only  amusing  even  in  scientific  circles." 
Later  Ostwald  remarks  that  the  chapters  that  are  missing  in  food  prepa- 
ration are  the  ones  to  which  colloid  chemistry  may  be  applied. 

Since  so  many  phases  of  food  preparation  are  based  on  colloid  chemistry 
it  seems  necessary  to  include  in  this  book  a  chapter  on  its  relation  to  cook- 
ery. It  is  a  short  and  brief  outline.  As  such,  it  can  be  used  as  an  intro- 
duction or  as  a  summary  or  for  both  introduction  and  summary  of  the 
work  on  food  preparation,  although  the  subsequent  chapters  have  been 
written  with  the  idea  that  at  least  portions  of  this  chapter  will  be  used 
in  connection  with  each  of  them. 

Thomas  Graham's  contributions  constitute  the  foundations  of  colloid 
chemistry.  His  most  important  results  were  published  between  1861  and 
1864.  But  it  is  only  since  the  publications  of  von  Weimarn  and  of  Ostwald 
in  1906  and  1907  that  rapid  development  has  been  made  in  colloid  chem- 
istry, and  it  is  an  even  shorter  time  since  the  most  extensive  applications 
of  it  have  been  made  to  food  preparation.  Graham  used  the  terms 
crystalloids  and  colloids  to  apply  to  definite  materials.  Crystalloids  were 
dialyzable  through  parchment  membrane,  whereas  colloids  were  not  dialyz- 
able.  The  terms  are  now  misleading,  for  we  know  that  any  crystalloid  can, 
by  a  definite  treatment  and  the  selection  of  the  right  medium,  be  brought 
into  the  colloidal  state.  Many  of  the  so-called  colloids  can  be  crystallized. 
The  term  colloidal  state  indicates  that  the  material  is  dispersed  in  another 
substance,  so  that  it  is  preferable  to  speak  of  colloidal  systems  rather  than 
colloids.  Colloidal  systems  differ  from  molecular  ones  in  the  size  of  the 
dispersed  particles.  This  difference  in  size  of  the  particles  gives  different 
physical  properties  to  the  system. 

Bancroft  states  that  "adopting  the  very  flexible  definition  that  a  phase 

1 


2         RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

is  called  colloidal  when  it  is  sufficiently  finely  divided,  colloid  chemistry 
is  the  chemistry  of  bubbles,  drops,  grains,  filaments,  and  films,  because  in 
each  of  these  cases  at  least  one  dimension  of  the  phase  is  very  small.  This  is 
not  a  truly  scientific  classification  because  a  bubble  has  a  film  round  it, 
and  a  film  may  be  considered  as  made  up  of  coalescing  drops  or  grains." 
A  knowledge  of  colloid  chemistry  is  necessary  to  have  a  real  understanding 
of  processes  and  methods  used  in  a  large  number  of  industries  and  occupa- 
tions. Bancroft  gives  a  list  of  60  such  occupations,  which  include:  "cream, 
butter,  cheese,  and  casein  products;  cooking  and  washing." 

Classification  of  Substances  Based  upon  the  Degree  of  Dispersion 

in  Solution 

Solutions  and  suspensions.  When  a  solid  substance  is  added  to  a 
liquid  one  of  three  types  of  mixtures  may  be  formed.  ( 1 )  A  true  solution, 
which  is  a  homogeneous  mixture.  (2)  A  colloidal  solution,  which  appears 
to  be  homogeneous.  The  dispersed  particles  have  a  size  of  1  m/x  to  0.1/x  and 
can  be  separated  by  a  sufficiently  fine  filter.  (3)  A  suspension  in  which 
the  dispersed  particles  are  greater  than  OA[x.  The  dispersed  particles  can 
be  separated  from  the  liquid  by  filtration  or  sedimentation.  Gortner 
states,  "Inasmuch  as  fine  suspensions  possess,  to  a  large  degree,  certain 
characteristic  properties  of  colloidal  systems,  there  has  been  a  general  tend- 
ency of  recent  years  to  raise  the  upper  limit  to  0.5/x,"  instead  of  OA/x.  It 
should  be  understood  that  the  above  classification  is  an  arbitrary  one  and 
that  in  nature  there  are  no  abrupt  transitions.  There  can  be  no  definite 
division  made  between  true  and  colloidal  solutions  for  the  transition  is 
gradual.  There  are  some  colloidal  solutions  known  in  which  the  dispersed 
particles  are  less  than  1  m/x.  There  is  also  no  line  of  demarcation  between 
colloidal  solutions  and  suspensions. 

In  true  solutions  the  dispersed  phase  consists  of  particles  of  molecular 
or  ionic  size,  whereas  the  colloidal  solutions  contain  particles  of  larger  size, 
and  the  suspension  contains  particles  large  enough  for  mechanical  separation. 
The  smaller  the  particles  with  a  definite  quantity  of  material  the  more 
dispersed  the  substance;  the  larger  the  particles  the  less  dispersed.  A  true 
solution  can  be  reproduced  if  the  temperature,  pressure,  and  concentration 
are  known,  since  the  degree  of  dispersion  is  constant.  But  in  colloidal  solu- 
tions it  is  necessary  to  know  the  degree  of  dispersion  as  well  as  the  tem- 
perature, pressure,  and  concentration  to  reproduce  the  system.  The  prop- 
erties of  solutions  like  gelatin  also  depend  upon  the  method  of  preparation 
and  their  previous  history;  the  properties  of  a  true  solution  are  independent 
of  the  method  of  preparation  or  their  previous  history.  The  systems  whose 
properties  are  dependent  upon  their  previous  history  are  said  to  show 
hysteresis. 

Colloidal  systems  are  heterogeneous,  so  that  it  is  necessary  to  distinguish 
which  is  the  dispersed  phase  and  which  is  the  dispersing  medium.  Some  of 


SOLUTIONS  AND  SUSPENSIONS 


the  terms  used  are  dispersed  phase  and  dispersing  medium*  discontinuous 
phase  and  continuous  phase ;  internal  phase  and  external  phase ;  and  micelles 
and  intermicellar  liquid.  The  usage  of  the  last  group  appears  to  be  in- 
creasing at  the  present  time. 

TABLE  1 
Characteristic  Differences  of 


True  solutions 


Colloidal  solutions 


In  molecular  subdivision 

Particles  are  not  visible 
with  ultra-microscope 


Particles  less  than  1  m/x 

Formation  of  gels  is  not 
characteristic 

Transparent 

Particles  pass  through 
parchment  membranes 


Intense  kinetic  movement 


Systems    show    high    os- 
motic pressure 


In    colloidal    subdivision 

Refracted  light  of  parti- 
cles is  visible  with  ultra- 
microscope 

Particles  from  1  m^i  toO.  1  m 

Formation  of  gels  is 
characteristic 

Transparent 

Particles  or  micelles  pass 
through  high-grade  filter 
paper,  but  not  parchment 

Less  kinetic  movement, 
more  Brownian  move- 
ment 

Systems  show  low  os- 
motic pressure 


Suspensions 


In  mechanical  subdivision 

Particles  visible  with  or- 
dinary microscope  or 
naked  eye 

Particles  greater  than  0. 1  /z 

Formation  of  gels  is  not 
characteristic 

Generally  opaque 

Particles  do  not  pass 
through  high-grade  filter 
paper 

Little  movement 


Systems  show  no  measur- 
able osmotic  pressure 


Particles  of  colloidal  size  may  be  in  a  gaseous,  liquid,  or  a  solid  state. 
These  micelles  may  be  dispersed  in  solids,  liquids,  or  gases;  and  if  sys- 
tems are  classified  according  to  the  dispersed  and  dispersing  medium  there 
may  be  a 

solid  in  a  solid,  ruby  glass; 

liquid  in  a  solid,  opals  ; 

gas  in  a  solid,  pumice  ; 

solid  in  a  liquid,  gold  sol  ; 

liquid  in  a  liquid,  lyophilic  colloids; 

gas  in  a  liquid,  whipped  cream ; 

solid  in  a  gas,  smoke; 

liquid  in  a  gas,  fog. 


4         RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

Sometimes  the  classification  of  colloidal  systems  is  based  on  the  dispersed 
phase  only,  and  this  is  designated  as  a  solid,  liquid,  or  a  gas,  according  to 
the  material  dispersed.  Gortner  adds  emulsions  to  the  above  eight  systems 
to  be  considered  in  colloidal  systems. 

Dispersion  of  substances.  It  is  possible  to  change  particles  from 
molecular  size  to  suspension  particles  and  vice  versa.  Ostwald  states  that 
"it  may  be  accomplished  either  through  the  dispersion  of  nondispersed  or 
coarsely  dispersed  substances,  or  through  the  condensation  of  molecularly 
dispersed  systems.  To  these  ends  not  only  chemical  but  mechanical,  elec- 
trical and  other  kinds  of  energy  may  be  used."  Water  passes  from  the  molec- 
ular through  the  colloidal  and  into  the  suspension  state  in  freezing.  Von 
Weimarn  states  that  all  crystalline  substances  pass  through  a  colloidal 
zone  in  going  into  solution  and  in  crystallizing  from  solution,  for  during 
crystallization  the  size  of  the  particles  increases,  passing  from  molecular, 
through  colloidal,  to  suspension  dimensions.  This  emphasizes  the  fact  that, 
within  each  group  or  class  of  substances,  there  may  be  a  wide  variation 
in  the  degree  of  dispersion.  This  dispersion,  as  in  crystallization,  may  pass 
through  molecular,  colloidal,  and  suspension  zones,  w^hereas  with  other 
substances  there  may  be  wide  degrees  of  dispersion  of  the  substance 
within  one  zone.  The  properties  of  the  systems  vary  w^ith  the  size  and 
degree  of  dispersion  of  their  particles,  which  affect  the  results  obtained  in 
cookery.  The  properties  of  colloidal  particles  approaching  molecular  dis- 
persion are  different  from  those  of  particles  approaching  the  suspension 
zone.  One  illustration  will  be  mentioned.  The  gluten  particles  of  flour 
have  colloidal  dimensions.  According  to  Gortner  and  Doherty,  not  all 
gluten  particles  from  different  flours  are  the  same  size.  The  gluten  particles 
in  pastry  flour  are  more  dispersed  or  of  smaller  size  than  those  in  bread 
flour.  This  is  one  reason  for  the  different  results  obtained  in  baked  foods 
when  bread  flour  is  used  instead  of  pastry  flour.  The  properties  and  bak- 
ing qualities  of  different  flours  vary  with  the  size  of  the  gluten  particles. 

Particles  approaching  the  limits  of  the  size  of  one  zone  may  show  prop- 
erties of  two  zones.  Thus  sugar  has  a  high  molecular  weight  and  in  cookery 
shows  both  molecular  and  colloidal  properties  as  if  it  belonged  to  an  in- 
between  group.  In  gelatin  dishes  with  a  definite  concentration  it  increases 
the  stiffness  of  the  gel ;  in  custards  it  acts  like  a  protective  colloid. 

Increasing  and  Lessening  the  Degree  of  Dispersion  of 
Substances  in  Food  Preparation 

In  food  preparation  many  of  the  methods  used  and  many  of  the  in- 
gredients added  to  foods  bring  about  increased  or  decreased  dispersion. 

Heat.  Increasing  the  temperature  may  bring  about  a  greater  or  a  lesser 
degree  of  dispersion.  The  heating  of  water  increases  its  dispersion.  The  dis- 
persion of  fat  globules  in  milk  is  increased  by  the  application  of  heat  to 


DISPERSION  BY  ALKALIES  5 

the  milk,  but  when  proteins  are  coagulated  by  heat  the  degree  of  dispersion 
is  decreased. 

Mechanical  dispersion.  Beating  of  a  food  is  a  mechanical  means  of 
bringing  about  a  greater  or  a  lesser  degree  of  dispersion.  In  cookery,  stir- 
ring may  bring  about  more  uniform  distribution  of  particles  in  a  food, 
like  white  sauce.  But  even  this  may  prevent  lumping  or  clumping  and  thus 
is  a  means  of  bringing  about  dispersion,  just  as  beating  a  curdled  custard 
is  a  mechanical  means  of  bringing  about  a  greater  degree  of  dispersion  of 
a  suspension,  but  although  it  reduces  the  size  of  the  curds  it  does  not  reduce 
them  enough  to  change  the  suspension  to  the  colloidal  state.  Homogenization 
of  milk  or  cream  is  a  mechanical  means  of  increasing  the  dispersion  of  fat 
particles.  Beating  an  egg  white  is  a  mechanical  means  of  lessening  the 
degree  of  dispersion,  as  it  brings  about  partial  coagulation  of  the  egg  white 
in  the  cell  walls  surrounding  the  air  bubbles. 

Dispersion  by  acids.  The  addition  or  the  development  of  acid  in 
preparation  of  food  may  be  a  chemical  means  of  bringing  about  a  greater  or 
a  lesser  degree  of  dispersion.  For  instance,  the  development  of  acid  during 
the  fermentation  of  bread  brings  about  greater  dispersion  of  the  gluten. 
The  addition  of  acid  to  whole  egg  tends  to  curdle  the  egg  or  bring  about  a 
lessened  degree  of  dispersion.  If  a  large  enough  quantity  of  acid  is  added, 
the  degree  of  dispersion  may  be  increased  after  passing  through  a  zone 
of  lesser  dispersion.  The  explanation  of  the  different  effects  of  acid  on  the 
gluten  and  on  the  egg  proteins  depends  upon  the  isoelectric  point  of  the 
gluten  and  the  egg  protein  and  the  degree  of  acidity  developed.  This  will 
be  considered  later. 

Dispersion  by  alkalies.  The  addition  of  alkalies  may  also  tend  to 
bring  about  a  greater  or  a  lesser  degree  of  dispersion.  In  quick  breads  and 
cakes  the  addition  of  soda  in  excess  of  the  amount  required  to  neutralize 
the  acidity  of  the  mixture  may  bring  about  increased  dispersion  of  the 
gluten  particles,  which  results  in  a  definite  grain  or  crumb. 

The  different  methods  of  bringing  about  a  lesser  or  a  greater  degree  of 
dispersion  are  applicable  to  all  food  products.  In  some  cases  the  effect  may 
be  modified  by  other  factors.  It  is  interesting  to  trace  these  through  dif- 
ferent classes  of  food  products.  If  alkali  is  taken  as  an  example,  its  effects 
on  some  foods  may  be  cited.  The  alkalies,  hydroxides  of  ammonia,  sodium, 
and  potassium  or  their  basic  salts  are  the  ones  considered.  Calcium  and 
magnesium  salts  may  have  different  effects. 

Sucrose  is  little  affected  by  alkalies  if  they  are  not  stronger  than  those 
ordinarily  used  in  cookery.  But  when  alkalies  are  added  to  the  mono- 
saccharid  sugars  they  bring  about  decomposition.  The  sugar  in  solution  is 
in  the  molecular  state,  and  the  alkalies  cause  increased  dispersion,  even 
though  the  sugar  and  its  decomposition  products  both  remain  in  molecular 
dispersion.  The  properties  of  the  decomposition  products  are  different 
from  those  of  the  original  sugar. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  are  softened  by  the  addition  of  alkalies  during 


6        RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

cooking,  and  they  may  become  mushy  and  disintegrate.  This  is  probably 
due  to  the  greater  dispersion  of  the  cellulose  and  pectic  substances.  In  dried 
legumes,  alkalies  may  also  increase  the  disintegration  of  some  of  the  protein. 

Milk  is  prevented  from  curdling  or  coagulating  by  the  addition  of  alkali. 
Curdling  is  a  lessened  dispersion  of  the  milk  protein,  casein.  The  addition  of 
alkalies  to  eggs  elevates  the  temperature  for  coagulation.  Alkalies  added 
to  doughs  cause  a  greater  degree  of  dispersion  of  the  gluten,  which  results 
in  a  dough  that  is  runny  and  sticky  to  handle.  In  larger  quantities  the  bak- 
ing quality  of  the  flour  is  partially  destroyed.  Alkalies  added  to  gelatin 
tend  to  prevent  its  setting,  and  they  may  cause  greater  dispersion  in  emul- 
sions. 

Dispersion  by  enzymes.  Enzymes  may  also  cause  an  increased  or 
lessened  degree  of  dispersion  in  foods.  The  clotting  of  milk  upon  the  ad- 
dition of  rennin  is  an  example  of  lessened  dispersion,  but  the  proteinase 
enzyme  in  flour  increases  the  dispersion  of  the  gluten. 

Classification  and  Properties  of  Colloids  Based  upon 
Physico-Chemical  Relationships  in  Liquids 

Each  colloidal  solution  as  w^ell  as  each  true  solution  has  its  own  peculiar 
properties.  These  depend  upon  the  nature  of  the  particles  in  solution  and 
the  dispersing  medium.  But  a  large  group  of  colloidal  systems  may  have 
similar  properties,  and  for  convenience  they  are  classified  in  a  group  or 
subdivision.  The  classification  of  colloidal  systems  into  groups  is  not 
always  satisfactory,  for  there  is  no  distinct  line  of  demarcation  between 
the  different  subdivisions.  Ostwald,  Freundlich,  Gortner,  and  Buchanan 
and  Fulmer  give  excellent  discussions  of  the  properties  of  colloidal  systems 
which  are  of  interest  to  those  concerned  with  food  preparation. 

Suspensoids  and  emulsoids.  One  basis  for  classification  of  colloidal 
systems  is  the  nature  of  the  dispersed  phase.  In  a  suspensoid  the  dispersed 
particles  are  in  a  solid  state.  In  an  emulsoid  the  dispersed  particles  are  in  a 
liquid  state.  Many  authorities  classify  suspensoids  and  lyophobes,  emulsoids 
and  lyophiles,  as  being  coextensive,  but  Freundlich  states  that  this  is  in- 
correct, for  there  are  many  emulsoids  with  lyophobic  properties. 

Reversible  and  irreversible  colloids.  If  after  a  colloidal  solution  is 
evaporated,  a  sol  is  reformed  upon  the  addition  of  water,  the  colloid  is 
classified  as  a  reversible  colloid.  Gelatin  and  dried  egg  white  are  examples 
of  this  type  of  colloid.  An  irreversible  colloid  does  not  spontaneously  form 
a  sol  with  the  addition  of  water,  after  water  has  been  evaporated.  Re- 
versible and  hydrophilic  colloids  are  coextensive;  irreversible  and  hydro- 
phobic colloids  belong  to  similar  groups. 

Sols  and  gels.  Colloidal  solutions  are  also  classified  upon  the  basis 
of  their  consistency.  Those  which  are  apparently  solutions  are  called  sols. 
Those  with  a  jelly-like  consistency  are  called  gels.  The  consistency  of  fruit 
jelly  or  a  gelatin  dessert  is  that  of  a  typical  gel.  There  is  no  distinct  line 


SWELLING  OF  COLLOIDAL  GELS  7 

of  separation  between  sols  and  gels,  nor  on  the  other  hand,  according  to 
Jordan  Lloyd,  between  gels  and  curds.  The  classification  of  gels  on  the 
basis  of  consistency  includes  many  gels  that  do  not  have  similar  proper- 
ties. Some  gels  are  formed  from  sols  by  coagulation.  Custard  is  an  ex- 
ample of  this  type.  A  starch  gel  is  formed  by  gelatinization  of  the  starch 
during  cooking.  Gelatin,  agar-agar,  and  soaps  form  sols  above  certain 
temperatures  and  gels  at  lower  temperatures.  Such  gels  are  called  revers- 
ible. The  sol-gel  transformation  is  brought  about  gradually,  there  being 
no  definite  melting  or  setting  temperature.  The  change  from  a  sol  to  a  gel 
by  cooling  is  termed  gelation  and  is  a  distinct  process  from  that  of  coagu- 
lation. Temperature,  time,  concentration,  and  the  presence  of  electrolytes 
or  non-electrolytes  are  factors  in  gel  formation.  There  are  various  theories 
regarding  gel  structure,  but  space  does  not  permit  considering  them  here. 
It  may  be  added  that  there  is  a  similarity  between  crystallization  and 
gelation.  Jordan  Lloyd  states  that  "gelation  is  a  process  closely  parallel  to 
crystallization  and  is  accompanied  in  most  cases  by  evolution  of  heat."  One 
other  factor  of  similarity  is  that  with  rapid  cooling  a  finer  structure  of  the 
micelles  is  obtained. 

Swelling  of  colloidal  gels.  Freundlich  designates  the  gels  that  may 
imbibe  a  liquid  and  give  it  up  as  turgescible,  and  those  which  do  not  swell 
as  non-turgescible.  The  imbibition  of  water  is  known  as  turgescence;  the 
giving  up  of  water  is  designated  as  deturgescence.  The  term  hydration  is 
used  to  indicate  imbibition  of  water  by  the  micelles ;  solvation  is  the  general 
term  used  for  all  liquid  dispersion  mediums.  The  lyophilic  colloids  are 
characterized  by  their  affinity  for  their  dispersion  mediums.  Whether  the 
micelles  of  gelatin,  agar-agar,  etc.,  actually  act  as  a  solvent  for  the  inter- 
micellar  liquid,  or  whether  the  liquid  is  attracted  and  bound,  probably 
by  electrical  forces,  to  the  surface  of  the  micelle  in  the  form  of  a  shell  is 
still  a  disputed  question.  The  amount  of  water  that  can  be  held  by  many 
of  the  micelles  in  the  form  of  a  shell  around  the  particle  is  relatively  enor- 
mous. As  the  concentration  of  the  micelles  is  increased,  the  viscosity  of  the 
solution  increases,  owing  to  a  larger  portion  of  the  dispersion  liquid  being 
bound.  A  concentration  of  0.75  per  cent  of  pectin  micelles  gives  a  fruit 
jelly  of  good  texture.  Increasing  their  concentration  gives  a  stiffer  jelly. 
The  molecules  of  the  dispersion  medium  are  probably  oriented  in  a  definite 
manner  around  the  micelle,  for  the  volume  of  a  gelatin  gel  is  less  than  the 
combined  volume  of  the  dry  gelatin  and  the  water. 

The  ability  of  the  micelles  to  take  up  and  hold  water  is  important  in 
food  preparation.  The  thickening  of  a  cup  of  milk  by  an  egg  in  a  custard 
is  due  to  the  ability  of  the  egg  proteins  to  bind  the  liquid.  The  thickening 
power  of  starches  is  due  to  the  swelling  of  the  starch  granules  during  heat- 
ing. The  ability  of  proteins,  starches,  etc.,  to  imbibe  water  is  very  great. 
A  pressure  of  2500  atmospheres  is  required  to  prevent  the  swelling  of  starch 
when  it  is  heated  in  water.  Gortner  defines  imbibition  pressure  as  "the 
pressure  against  which  such  a  colloid  will  imbibe  a  liquid,  or  conversely  the 


8         RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

pressure  which  is  required  to  force  the  dispersions  medium  out  of  a  gel. 
Imbibition  pressures  should  not  be  confused  with  osmotic  pressure,  and  in 
many  instances  they  assume  values  greatly  in  excess  of  values  obtainable 
by  osmotic  pressure.  If  a  sheet  of  dried  gelatin  is  placed  in  a  saturated 
solution  of  sodium  chloride,  water  will  be  withdrawn  by  imbibition  forces 
against  the  osmotic  pressure  of  the  sodium  chloride  solution,  and  sodium 
chloride  will  crystallize  out  in  the  solution." 

The  micelles  possess  either  a  positive  or  a  negative  charge.  When  the 
electrical  forces  holding  the  bound  water  to  the  micelle  are  neutralized,  as 
may  happen  when  electrolytes  are  added  under  suitable  conditions,  the 
bound  water  is  released  and  the  viscosity  of  the  system  decreases.  When 
a  custard  is  curdled  the  bound  water  is  set  free.  The  ability  of  muscle  fibers 
to  hold  water  during  cooking  prevents  drying  of  the  meat  to  a  great  extent. 

Effect  o£  added  substances  upon  swelling  of  gels.  The  addition 
of  such  substances  as  acids,  alkalies,  mineral  salts,  and  sugar  may  increase 
or  inhibit  the  degree  of  swelling.  Many  such  combinations  are  made  in 
cookery.  Lemon  juice  and  vinegar  may  be  added  for  flavor.  Soda,  salt,  and 
baking  powder  may  be  added  to  foods.  Different  proportions  of  mineral 
salts  are  found  in  foods,  and  the  proportion  may  vary  in  the  same  food 
owing  to  many  causes.  In  general,  the  addition  of  acids  or  alkalies  increases 
the  swelling  of  colloidal  gels.  With  acids,  this  usually  continues  until  a 
maximum  is  reached  at  pH  3.0  to  2.5,  when  imbibition  is  decreased  with 
greater  acidity.  With  alkalies  the  maximum  swelling  is  about  pH  10.5, 
though  gluten  gels  are  likely  to  disintegrate  when  they  become  as  alkaline 
as  this.  Sometimes  the  addition  of  acids  or  alkalies  lessens  hydration.  This 
depends  upon  the  pH  of  the  substance  when  the  acid  or  alkali  is  added. 
In  general,  salts  lessen  the  degree  of  swelling  even  in  the  presence  of  acids 
or  alkalies. 

Syneresis.  After  gels  are  allowed  to  stand  protected  against  evapora- 
tion for  a  number  of  hours  there  is  a  tendency  for  the  gel  to  separate  into 
two  phases.  A  liquid  may  squeeze  out  of  the  gel.  A  typical  example  is  the 
separation  of  the  whey  from  the  curd  in  clabbered  milk.  It  is  also  noticed 
in  some  jellies,  cranberry  jelly  in  particular.  This  separation  into  a  more 
solid  and  a  more  liquid  part  may  take  a  long  time  in  the  case  of  some  food 
gels,  a  shorter  time  in  others.  In  syneresis  the  liquid  part  contains  a  large 
proportion  of  the  solvent,  a  smaller  proportion  of  the  solid.  The  more  solid 
part  has  a  high  concentration  of  the  solid,  a  lower  one  of  the  solvent. 

Hydrophilic  and  hydrophobic  colloids.  The  terms  lyophilic  and 
lyophobic  include  all  dispersing  mediums  whereas  hydrophilic  and  hydro- 
phobic indicate  that  the  dispersing  medium  is  water,  Hydrophilic  means 
"water  loving";  hydrophobic  means  "water  hating."  The  lyophilic  colloids 
belong  to  the  liquid  dispersed  in  liquid  systems,  thiough  as  pointed  out  by 
Gortner  and  by  Fischer  this  terminology  is  not  strictly  accurate,  for  the 
dispersed  phase  and  dispersing  medium  are  more  or  less  soluble  in  each 
other.  Thus,  with   gelatin   and  water,   hydration    occurs   or   the   two   are 


ELECTROLYTES  AND  HYDROPHOBIC  COLLOIDS        9 

mutually  more  or  less  soluble  in  each  other.  The  chief  differences  between 
hydrophilic  and  hydrophobic  colloids  are  their  degree  of  hydration  and  their 
reaction  to  electrolytes.  The  particles  of  a  hydrophilic  colloid  require  the 
addition  of  a  large  quantity  of  an  electrolyte  to  bring  about  coagulation, 
whereas  the  hydrophobic  colloids  are  sensitive  to,  and  coagulated  by,  very 
small  quantities  of  electrolytes.  Gelatin,  agar-agar,  starch,  and  protein  solu- 
tions belong  to  the  hydrophilic  group;  the  metal  sols  belong  to  the  hydro- 
phobic group.  There  is  no  distinct  line  between  the  hydrophilic  and  hydro- 
phobic colloids.  Even  the  particles  of  the  rather  typical  hydrophilic  colloids 
are  not  hydrated  to  the  same  extent.  Thus  an  agar-agar  sol  is  more  strongly 
hydrated  than  a  gelatin  one.  Another  way  of  expressing  this  is  to  say  that 
about  1  per  cent  of  agar-agar  will  form  a  stiff  gel,  but  more  than  1  per  cent 
of  gelatin  is  required  for  a  stiff  gel. 

The  charge  on  colloidal  particles.  That  the  micelles  possess  either  a 
negative  or  a  positive  charge  is  agreed,  though  the  origin  of  the  charge  is 
still  disputed.  For  aqueous  solutions  the  charge  is  most  easily  explained  on 
the  basis  of  adsorbed  ions.  The  charge  may  also  come  from  ionization 
of  the  micelle,  or  by  electrification  by  contact  with  the  dispersing  medium, 
in  the  same  manner  that  a  glass  rod  becomes  charged  when  rubbed  with 
fur.  If  the  charge  on  the  micelles  is  reduced  to  practically  zero,  the  col- 
loidal system  becomes  unstable.  The  electrical  charge  is  one  important 
factor  in  the  stabilization  of  sols.  One  example  in  foods  is  the  casein  of 
milk.  When  the  electrical  charge  of  casein  reaches  zero,  the  protein  floc- 
culates and  is  precipitated.  Kruyt  cites  it  as  an  example  of  a  protein  sol 
that  is  not  sufficiently  hydrated  to  be  stabilized  by  hydration  alone,  so  that 
it  can  exist  when  negatively  or  positively  charged,  but  not  when  the  charge 
is  neutralized. 

Freundlich  uses  the  term  electrokinetic  phenomena  to  designate  certain 
electrical  properties  of  colloidal  systems.  He  also  states  that  these  electro- 
kinetic  phenomena  are  closely  associated  with  the  physical  properties  of 
interfacial  tension,  adsorption,  colloidal  stability,  mutual  precipitation,  and 
flocculation. 

The  theories  that  have  been  advanced  to  explain  electrokinetic  phenom- 
ena are  based  upon  the  double-layer  theory  of  Helmholtz.  This  theory  is 
that  the  micelle  is  surrounded  by  a  double  layer  of  ions,  the  inner  layer, 
which  may  be  negative  or  positive,  being  closely  adsorbed  by  the  micelle, 
and  the  outer  layer,  consisting  of  ions  of  opposite  charge  from  those  of  the 
inner  layer,  lying  close  to  the  micelles  in  the  intermicellar  liquid.  If  the 
inner  layer  of  ions  is  negative,  the  micelle  is  negatively  charged,  the  outer 
layer  being  positively  charged.  As  the  colloid  passes  through  its  isoelectric 
point  the  charge  of  each  double  layer  is  reversed. 

Effect  o£  electrolytes  upon  hydrophobic  colloids.  When  a  hy- 
drophobic colloid  is  coagulated  by  an  electrolyte  its  electric  charge  is 
removed.  The  amount  of  electrolyte  required  depends  upon  several  factors: 
(1)  The  manner  of  adding.  More  electrolyte  is  required  if  it  is  added  in 


10       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

small  portions  than  if  added  all  at  once.  (2)  The  valence  of  the  ion  bring- 
ing about  the  coagulation.  Coagulation  is  brought  about  by  the  ion  having 
the  opposite  charge  to  that  of  the  colloid.  As  a  general  rule,  the  precipitat- 
ing effect  is  increased  with  an  increase  of  valence  of  the  ion  bringing  about 
the  coagulation.  There  are  exceptions  to  this  rule,  as  some  monovalent  ions 
have  greater  effect  in  bringing  about  coagulation  than  some  polyvalent 
ions.  (3)  Concentration  of  the  electrolyte.  In  many  cases  there  are  zones  in 
which  a  definite  concentration  of  the  electrolyte  brings  about  maximum 
coagulation.  Higher  or  lower  concentrations  are  not  so  effective  or  may  not 
bring  about  coagulation.  This  is  illustrated  later  in  egg  cookery.  High  con- 
centrations of  ferric  or  aluminum  chloride  do  not  bring  about  coagulation 
of  distilled-water  custards  but  small  concentrations  cause  coagulation. 
(4)  The  concentration  of  the  colloid  also  affects  the  amount  of  electrolyte 
required  for  coagulation.  (5)  A  definite  time  may  be  required,  depending 
upon  the  concentration  of  the  protein  and  electrolyte. 

Effect  of  electrolytes  upon  hydrophilic  colloids.  The  effect  of 
electrolytes  upon  hydrophilic  colloids  is  varied.  Kruyt  states  that  the  hydro- 
philic colloids  are  stabilized  by  two  factors,  the  electric  charge  and  the 
strong  hydration  of  the  particles,  and  after  the  hydrophilic  colloid  is 
dehydrated  it  is  as  sensitive  to  electrolytes  as  the  hydrophobic  colloids. 
Dehydration  of  the  hydrophilic  colloids  may  be  brought  about  by  different 
means.  Some  proteins  may  be  dehydrated  by  heating.  Alcohol  may  be 
used  to  dehydrate  hydrophilic  colloids,  and  tannins  may  also  bring  about 
dehydration.  This  dehydration  by  heating  or  other  means  is  called  denatur- 
ation.  If  an  egg  white  is  dialyzed  and  the  electrolytes  removed  it  is  not 
coagulated  when  heated.  But  the  addition  of  electrolytes  to  the  heated 
dialyzed  egg  white  brings  about  coagulation.  Kruyt  states  that  if  small 
quantities  of  electrolytes  are  added  to  a  starch  or  agar-agar  sol  the  electric 
charge  is  removed  but  the  colloidal  particles  do  not  precipitate.  If  alcohol, 
a  dehydrating  agent,  is  added  to  the  above  starch  or  agar-agar  sol,  coagu- 
lation occurs.  It  is  immaterial  in  which  order  the  two  stability  factors,  the 
electric  charge  and  hydration,  are  removed.  The  removal  of  one  has  no 
evident  effect,  but  the  removal  of  both  factors  causes  coagulation.  The  term 
denaturation  will  be  used  in  later  references  to  indicate  sensitization  of 
hydrophilic  colloids  to  electrolytes.  The  term  denotes  whatever  changes  are 
brought  about  during  dehydration  of  the  colloid. 

The  action  of  electrolytes  upon  proteins  is  given  as  follows  by  Buchanan 
and  Fulmer. 

"1.  Those  electrolytes  which  bring  about  a  reversible  precipitation 
in  high  concentration.  These  include  the  salts  of  the  alkalis,  K,  Na, 
NH4,  Li  and  possibly  Mg.  Ammonium  sulphate  is  commonly  used 
in  'salting  out'  of  proteins.  The  precipitate  so  formed  will  be  redis- 
solved  on  dilution,  i.e.,  the  process  is  reversible. 

''When  the  protein  is  on  the  alkaline  side  of  its  isoelectric  point  (i.e., 


ISOELECTRIC  POINT  11 

negatively  charged),  the  order  of  effectiveness  of  the  salt  is  on  the 
basis  of  cations:  Li  >  K  >  Na  >  NH4  >  Mg  and  of  anions,  citrate 
>  tartrate  >  SO4  >  acetate  >  CI  >  NO3  >  CIO3  >  I  >  SCN. 

"2.  Those  electrolytes  which  bring  about  an  irreversible  precipita- 
tion in  concentrated  solutions.  These  include  the  salts  of  alkaline 
earths,  Sr,  Ba,  Ca,  and  possibly  Mg. 

''The  order  of  effectiveness  for  negatively  charged  protein  is  Ba  > 
Ca  >  Sr  and  acetate  >  CI  >  NO3  >  Br  >  I  >  SCN  with  the  re- 
verse order  for  the  positively  charged  protein. 

"3.  Those  electrolytes  which  in  low  concentrations  bring  about  an 
irreversible  precipitation.  These  include  the  salts  of  the  heavy  metals 
such  as  Ag,  Hg,  Fe,  Cu.  An  interesting  characteristic  of  this  group 
is  the  fact  that  two  optimal  zones  may  be  found.  For  instance,  copper 
sulphate  solutions  precipitate  albumin  in  concentrations  from 
0.001  A'^ —  1  A^,  in  higher  concentrations  the  precipitate  redissolves,  a 
precipitate  appearing  again  at  a  concentration  of  6  A^.  Zinc  salts  show 
maximal  precipitation  at  0.01  N  —  0.5  N  and  again  at  4  AT." 

Protective  and  denaturating  colloids.  A  substance  that  tends  to 
prevent  coagulation  of  micelles  is  designated  as  a  protector;  if  it  is  in  the 
colloidal  state  it  is  called  a  protective  colloid.  Sometimes  small  amounts 
of  a  colloid  sensitize  instead  of  protecting.  The  latter  are  sometimes  called 
denaturating  colloids. 

Amphoteric  colloids.  Substances  that  combine  with  either  acids  or 
bases  are  known  as  amphoteric  substances.  Proteins  belong  to  this  group. 
They  are  composed  of  amino  acids.  The  amino  acids  contain  amine 
( — NH2),  and  carboxyl  ( — COOH),  groups.  The  — NHo  groups 
combine  with  acids;  the  — COOH  groups  combine  with  alkalies.  Most 
of  the —  NH2  and  — COOH  groups  are  linked  or  bound  in  forming  the 
protein  molecule,  but  some  are  free,  and  combinations  with  acids  and  bases 
are  formed  with  these  free  groups. 

Isoelectric  point.  At  a  definite  acidity  or  pH  for  each  protein,  there 
is  a  point  called  the  isoelectric  point.  The  pH  of  different  proteins  at  the 
isoelectric  point  varies  because  of  the  different  amino-acid  content  of  each 
protein,  which  results  in  a  larger  or  smaller  number  of  — NH2  or 
—  COOH  groups.  At  the  isoelectric  point  the  protein  is  combined  with 
neither  anions  nor  cations  or  else  it  is  combined  with  both  equally,  for  the 
charge  is  neutral.  Thus  at  the  isoelectric  point  in  a  cataphoresis  experiment 
the  protein  does  not  migrate  to  either  the  anode  or  cathode.  At  the  iso- 
electric point  certain  characteristic  properties  of  the  protein  are  at  a  mini- 
mal, i.e.,  it  is  most  easily  precipitated  by  electrolytes,  is  least  soluble,  shows 
the  least  viscosity,  is  also  less  dispersed,  and  least  stable  as  a  colloidal  solu- 
tion. Other  minimum  points  at  higher  acidity  or  alkalinity  than  the  isoelec- 
tric point  are  not  considered  in  this  discussion,  for  they  are  found  less 
frequently  in  food  preparation. 


12       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

Combinations  o£  proteins  with  alkalies.  At  a  pR  above  its  iso- 
electric point  the  protein  combines  with  alkalies  to  form  such  salts  as 
sodium  proteinate,  calcium  proteinate,  etc. 

NH2  NH2 

R-C  -f     NaOH >    R-C  +     H2O 

COOH  COONa 

protein  sodium  sodium  proteinate  water 

hydroxide 

Combination  o£  proteins  with  acids.  At  a  pH  below  the  isoelectric 
point  or  on  the  acid  side  the  protein  combines  with  acids  to  form  salts  such 
as  protein  chlorides.  Here  the  effect  is  additive  and  similar  to  the  addition 
of  hydrochloric  acid  to  ammonia  to  form  ammonium  chloride. 

NHo  NH3CI 

/  / 

R-C  +    HCl >    R-C 

COOH  COOH 

protein  hydro-  protein  chloride 

chloric 
acid 

Combinations  of  proteins  with  acids  or  alkalies  in  food  prep- 
aration. Many  combinations  of  proteins  with  acids  or  alkalies  are  formed 
in  food  preparation.  Most  alkaline  salts  of  the  proteins  are  soluble.  Some  of 
the  acid  salts  are  soluble;  others  are  difficultly  soluble.  Casein,  the  protein 
present  in  milk  in  the  largest  quantity,  has  a  pH  of  4.7  at  its  isoelectric 
point.  Casein  in  sweet  milk  is  found  as  an  alkaline  salt.  Fresh  milk  has  a 
pH  of  6  to  7.  If  an  acid  is  added  to  the  milk  the  casein  will  be  precipitated 
when  the  reaction  of  the  milk  reaches  the  isoelectric  point  of  the  casein, 
pH  4.7.  This  occurs  in  natural  souring  by  the  formation  of  lactic  acid 
in  the  milk.  Familiar  examples  of  combinations  of  acid  with  milk  are  the 
addition  of  lemon  juice  to  milk  for  sherbet  or  the  addition  of  tomatoes  to 
milk  for  cream  of  tomato  soup.  If  enough  acid  is  added  to  lower  the  reac- 
tion of  the  milk  below  the  isoelectric  point  of  the  casein,  an  acid  salt  is 
formed.  If  this  salt  is  soluble,  the  curds  of  casein  will  dissolve.  This  change 
of  the  protein  from  an  alkaline  to  an  acid  salt  often  occurs  in  making  may- 
onnaise and  other  salad  dressings.  The  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  acid 
to  egg  yolk  will  curdle  it,  but  upon  the  addition  of  a  little  more  acid  the 
curd  may  dissolve. 

Stoichiometrical  combination.  Stoichiometrical  combination  means 
that  the  reaction  between  compounds  is  carried  out  according  to  the  laws 
of  valence.  Loeb  and  others  working  with  dilute  solutions  of  proteins, 
acids,  alkalies,  and  salts  showed  that  proteins  combine  with  acids  and  al- 
kalies in  stoichiometrical  relationship.  But  Hoffman  and  Gortner  have 
shown  that  proteins  in  stronger  concentrations  of  acids  or  alkalies  adsorb 


SURFACE  TENSION  13 

acid  or  alkali*.  This  means  that  owing  to  the  surface  area  and  the  physical 
property  of  adsorption  the  proteins  can  combine  with  larger  quantities  of 
acids  or  alkalies  than  is  possible  in  stoichiometrical  combination  alone. 

Boundary  Phenomena 

Because  of  the  size  of  micelles,  surface  phenomena  assume  an  important 
place  in  colloidal  reactions.  Surface  tension,  the  formation  of  foams,  inter- 
facial  tension,  adsorption,  formation  of  surface  skins,  orientation  of  mole- 
cules, cohesion,  and  adhesion  all  have  application  in  food  preparation.  Dif- 
ferent authorities  use  a  different  terminology  to  designate  the  chemical  and 
physico-chemical  processes  taking  place  at  the  interface  between  two  phases. 
Kruyt  calls  them  boundary  phenomena,  Freundlich  designates  them  as 
capillary  chemistry,  and  other  authorities  use  other  terms. 

Total  surface  area  increases  in  proportion  to  the  increase  in  number  and 
decrease  in  size  of  the  micelles.  Molecular  systems  have  proportionally  a 
greater  surface  area  than  colloidal  ones,  but,  on  account  of  the  small  size 
of  the  particles,  other  forces  have  a  greater  effect  than  surface  ones  in 
molecular  systems. 

Freundlich  states  that  '*The  subject  of  capillary  chemistry  may  be  divided 
into  natural  subdivisions,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  interfaces  which 
separate  the  various  possible  pairs  of  phases.  We  can  distinguish  the  follow- 
ing interfaces:  liquid/gaseous,  liquid/liquid,  solid/gaseous,  solid/liquid, 
solid/solid.  Because  of  the  complete  rigidity  of  the  interface  between  two 
solids,  the  section  relating  to  this  pair  drops  out." 

Surface  tension.  Arbitrarily,  surface  tension  refers  to  the  tension 
of  a  liquid/gas  interface.  Liquids  like  gases  possess  kinetic  energy,  but  un- 
like gases  they  have  a  surface  or  a  boundary  layer.  This  boundary  layer 
gives  a  liquid  certain  properties  that  gases  do  not  have.  Surface  tension  is 
the  result  of  the  inherent  property  of  a  fluid  to  tend  to  form  a  minimum 
surface  under  all  conditions.  The  minimum  surface  for  a  given  volume  is 
in  the  form  of  a  sphere ;  hence,  when  free  to  do  so  liquids  assume  a  spheri- 
cal shape.  Small  drops  of  water  falling  on  a  dusty  surface  or  a  waxy  leaf 
tend  to  form  in  drops.  Large  drops  are  flattened  by  gravity.  When  drops 
of  water  fall  on  a  surface  like  clean  glass,  they  spread  and  wetting  occurs. 
The  forces  acting  between  the  clean  glass  and  the  liquid  prevent  the  liquid 
assuming  a  spherical  shape. 

The  molecules  in  the  interior  of  a  homogeneous  liquid  do  not  exhibit  any 
surface-tension  phenomena  in  relation  to  one  another  since  they  are  sub- 
jected to  a  balanced  attraction.  That  is,  they  are  equally  attracted  by  other 
molecules  on  all  sides.  But  the  surface  film  is  in  a  state  of  tension  due  to 
the  unbalanced  attractions  of  the  molecules  at  the  surface.  The  molecules 
are  attracted  only  downward  and  sideways.  Whereas  the  molecules  in  the 
interior  of  the  liquid  are  evidently  arranged  at  random,  those  in  the  surface 
are  oriented  or  arranged   in   a  definite   and   orderly  manner.   Freundlich 


14       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

states  that  it  is  only  a  step  to  conceive  that  this  tendency  to  form  a  mini- 
mum surface  resides  in  a  membrane.  Kruyt  speaks  of  a  boundary  layer. 
The  tension  of  this  membrane  is  the  so-called  surface  tension  of  the  liquid. 
Surface  tension  is  defined  by  Buchanan  and  Fulmer  as  ''the  amount  of 
work  required  to  produce  a  new  surface  of  unit  area  at  constant  tempera- 
ture." To  enlarge  the  surface  of  the  liquid  requires  work.  The  amount  of 
work  expended  to  enlarge  a  surface  multiplied  by  the  area  increased  is 
termed  free  surface  energy.  The  amount  of  work  to  enlarge  a  surface  is 
greater  with  increased  surface  tension.  Just  as  the  surface  area  of  a  liquid 
tends  to  assume  a  minimum  surface  through  its  inherent  surface  tension, 
so  free  energy  tends  to  assume  a  minimum  value.  The  free  surface  energy 
is  decreased  (1)  by  reducing  the  surface  area  or  (2)  by  reducing  the  sur- 
face tension.  Hence,  small  drops  of  liquid  will  unite  with  large  drops  if 
they  are  within  the  same  space  so  that  they  are  connected  by  their  vapor, 
thus  reducing  the  surface  area. 

Water  has  a  high  surface  tension.  Surface  tension  is  measured  in  dynes 
per  centimeter.  The  surface  tension  of  water  at  18°C.  is  73.0;  that  of  ethyl 
alcohol,  methyl  alcohol,  and  chloroform  at  20°C.  is  21.7,  23.0,  and  26.7, 
respectively.  The  surface  tension  of  mercury  at  15°C.  is  436.0.  Surface  ten- 
sion decreases  with  increase  in  temperature,  becoming  zero  at  the  critical 
temperature. 

The  surface  tension  of  solutions.  When  a  substance  is  dissolved 
in  a  pure  liquid  the  surface  tension  of  the  solution  may  not  be  changed, 
it  may  be  raised,  or  it  may  be  lowered.  The  substances  that  scarcely  change 
the  surface  tension  or  elevate  it  slightly  include  the  aqueous  solutions  of 
most  electrolytes  and  some  organic  compounds.  Sugar  increases  the  surface 
tension  of  water.  Freundlich  calls  these  substances  capillary-inactive  or 
surface-inactive.  The  group  of  substances  that  lower  surface  tension  in- 
cludes in  aqueous  solutions  many  organic  compounds  such  as  aldehydes, 
fatty  acids,  fats,  acetone,  amines,  alcohols,  tannins,  saponins,  and  proteins. 
Freundlich  calls  this  group  of  substances  capillary-active  or  surface-active. 
If  a  substance  lowers  or  increases  the  surface  tension,  the  effect  is  always 
increased  with  its  concentration.  Surface  tension  can  be  lowered  tremen- 
dously, but  it  can  be  raised  to  only  a  slight  extent.  If  a  substance  lowers 
the  surface  tension  its  concentration  is  greater  in  the  boundary  layer  than 
in  the  bulk  of  the  liquid ;  and,  conversely,  if  the  substance  raises  the  surface 
tension  the  concentration  is  less  in  the  boundary  layer. 

Substances  like  the  fatty  acids,  formic,  acetic,  propionic,  and  butyric, 
etc.,  that  belong  to  a  homologous  series,  show  an  increased  lowering  of  the 
surface  tension  as  the  series  is  ascended,  if  they  are  kept  at  the  same  con- 
centration. This  regularity  of  increase  with  such  a  series  is  known  as 
Traube's  rule. 

Formation  of  foams.  Absorption  at  liquid/gaseous  interfaces. 
A  foam  is  a  dispersed  gaseous  phase,  the  dispersing  medium  often  being  a 
liquid.  The  solutions  of  substances  that  lower  surface  tension  are  apt  to 


INTERFACIAL  TENSION  OF  LIQUIDS/LIQUIDS        15 

froth.  Freundllch  states  that  the  formation  of  a  foam  Is  a  complicated 
phenomenon.  ''Whilst  in  most  other  colloidal  structures  the  particles  of  the 
disperse  phase  are  of  colloidal  minuteness,  this  is  by  no  means  essential 
or  even  usual,  in  the  case  of  foams.  On  the  other  hand  the  dispersion 
medium  is  often  of  colloidal  fineness,  that  is,  the  gas  bubbles  are  separated 
from  one  another  by  liquid  films,  having  a  thickness  of  only  a  iew  m/x. 
Hence  in  a  foam  the  surface  of  a  liquid  has  been  enormously  extended, 
which  is  in  opposition  to  the  tendency  of  surface  tension  to  make  the  sur- 
face a  minimum.  For  this  reason  a  liquid  must  fulfil  a  number  of  special 
conditions.  In  the  first  place  the  surface  tension  of  the  liquid  must  be 
small,  for  otherwise  its  tendency  to  reduce  the  surface  would  be  too  power- 
ful." A  second  condition  for  the  production  of  stable  foams  is  that  the 
vapor  pressure  shall  be  small,  for  substances  with  high  vapor  pressure 
evaporate  rapidly.  The  surface  films  must  not  coalesce  readily.  These  con- 
ditions are  fulfilled  by  aqueous  solutions  of  capillary-active  substances,  and 
especially  by  sols  of  many  colloids,  like  soaps,  saponins,  tannins,  and 
proteins.  Freundlich  states  that  in  protein  solutions  a  third  influence  plays 
a  part,  for  they  have  the  property  of  forming  thin  "pellicles"  or  surface 
skins  on  the  boundary  layer,  which  tend  to  prevent  evaporation.  Since 
the  substance  that  lowers  surface  tension  of  the  liquid  is  found  in  greater 
concentration  in  the  foam,  if  the  foam  is  continually  removed  as  it  is 
formed,  the  greater  portion  of  the  protein  or  other  substance  is  removed. 
This  is  applied  in  the  following  and  similar  ways.  In  making  sorghum 
molasses,  in  order  to  have  a  delicate-flavored  product,  one  must  have 
"a  good  boil"  and  remove  the  scum  forming  on  the  surface.  In  this  way, 
tannins,  which  would  increase  the  bitterness  of  the  sorghum,  proteins,  and 
other  substances  are  removed. 

Rahn  has  shown  analytically  the  results  of  the  application  of  "the  law  of 
Gibbs  and  Thomson  which  states  that  substances  which  cause  a  depression 
of  surface  tension  will  accumulate  in  the  surface.  In  a  gelatin  solution, 
there  is  more  gelatin  in  the  very  surface  layer  than  in  the  center  of  the 
solution."  In  a  milk  foam  the  concentration  of  protein  is  greater  in  the 
foam  than  in  the  solution.  The  analytical  results  of  Rahn  are  given  in 
Table  2. 

Rahn  states  that  "If  protein  is  concentrated  on  the  surface  it  has  a 
tendency  to  become  solid,  but  all  proteins  do  not  behave  alike.  Some 
solidify  rapidly,  others  slowly,  and  some  do  not  solidify  at  all.  Quite  often, 
this  solidification  is  irreversible,  and  the  protein,  when  put  back  into  the 
solution,  will  not  dissolve  again."  When  milk  foams,  solid  walls  form 
around  the  air  bubbles  and,  when  the  foam  settles,  these  walls  of  protein 
can  be  seen  with  the  aid  of  a  microscope. 

Interfacial  tension  of  liquids/liquids.  When  two  non-miscible 
liquids  are  poured  together,  one  liquid  forms  a  layer  on  top  of  the  other, 
thus  making  a  liquid/liquid  boundary.  The  less  the  solubility  of  the  two 
liquids  in  each  other,  the  greater  their  interfacial  tension;  but  most  liquids 


16       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

TABLE  2 
Composition  of  Skimmed  Milk  and  Its  Foam  (Rahn) 


Constituent  of 

Average  of  9  experiments 

with  intensely  foaming 

skimmed  milk 

Average  of  6  experiments 

with  slightly  foaming 

skimmed  milk 

the  milk 

Liquid  part 

% 

Foam 

% 

Liquid 

% 

Foam 

% 

Protein 

Fat  and  lactose 

Ash 

3.09 
4.85 
0.75 

3.51 
4.73 
0.78 

3.01 
4.92 
0.74 

3.24 
4.92 
0.76 

Total  solids 

Protein  increase  in  the 
foam 

8.69 

9.02 
13.6 

8.67 

8.92 
7.6 

are  not  completely  insoluble  in  each  other.  Just  as  a  substance  may  con- 
centrate at  a  liquid/gaseous  interface,  so  likewise  those  substances  which 
decrease  interfacial  tension  tend  to  concentrate  at  a  liquid/liquid  or  a 
liquid/solid  interface.  With  the  addition  of  a  third  substance  soluble  in 
water,  Traube's  rule  holds,  but  if  it  is  more  soluble  in  the  second  liquid 
then  the  lowering  of  the  interfacial  tension  is  small  and  Traube's  rule 
scarcely  applies. 

Adsorption.  Adsorption  has  been  defined  as  the  concentration  of  a 
substance  at  an  interface.  The  increased  concentration  at  the  interface  is 
designated  as  positive  adsorption ;  a  decrease  in  the  boundary  layer  is  called 
negative  adsorption.  The  amount  adsorbed  depends  on  the  concentration 
of  the  material  being  adsorbed  and  the  extent  of  the  surface  at  which  it 
can  be  adsorbed.  The  importance  of  surface  reactions  or  phenomena  can- 
not be  over-emphasized  in  food  preparation.  Lowering  of  interfacial  tension 
aids  in  the  forming  of  emulsions.  Fat  is  strongly  adsorbed  by  sugar  crystals, 
and  when  the  two  are  mixed  this  aids  in  distributing  the  fat  throughout 
the  batter. 

Bancroft  states  that  peptization  is  always  due  to  adsorption.  Since  peptiza- 
tion occurs  frequently  in  food  preparation,  additional  mention  should  be 
made  of  it  here  in  connection  with  adsorption.  Bancroft  states  that  theo- 
retically there  are  three  possibilities  when  adsorption  occurs  at  a  surface. 
(1)  If  an  adsorbed  film  has  a  low  surface  tension  on  the  water  side  and  a 
high  one  on  the  other  side,  it  will  tend  to  scrunch  up  and  to  peptize  the  solid 
as  internal  phase.  (2)  If  the  reverse  is  true,  the  solid  will  tend  to  form  the 
external  phase.  (3)  If  the  two  surface  tensions  are  equal,  neither  will  pre- 


ORIENTATION  OF  MOLECULES  17 

vail.  Many  instances  of  peptization  might  be  mentioned.  There  is  the  pre- 
vention of  coagulation  by  heat  of  peptizating  action  of  sugar  on  egg  pro- 
tein. There  is  the  peptizing  action  of  soda  on  flour  proteins  with  increasing 
tenderness  of  the  product.  This  occurs  in  the  chocolate  cake  known  as 
devil's  food  when  excess  soda  is  used. 

The  interfacial  tension  o£  solids/liquids.  Adsorption  is  very  pro- 
nounced at  the  interface  between  these  two  phases.  Just  as  small  drops  of 
a  liquid  will  unite  through  their  vapor  to  form  larger  drops,  thus  reducing 
the  free  surface  energy  and  their  surface  area,  so  small  crystals  in  a  super- 
saturated solution  will  unite  to  form  larger  crystals.  Small  crystals  have  a 
greater  solubility  than  large  crystals.  They  also  have  a  greater  surface  area 
than  the  large  ones  per  unit  mass,  thus  a  greater  surface  energy.  Since 
surface  energy  tends  to  a  minimum,  equilibrium  can  be  reached  only  by 
establishment  of  larger  crystals  in  the  solution.  A  discussion  of  the  growth 
of  crj'stals  in  fondant  and  similar  candies  during  storage  is  given  later. 

Formation  of  surface  skins.  Bechhold  states  that  one  characteristic 
of  colloidal  systems  is  the  forming  of  a  surface  skin.  This  may  be  similar 
to  the  formation  of  a  boundary  layer  in  a  liquid.  Staining  solutions  form 
a  scum  on  the  surface  that  must  be  removed  by  straining  before  using. 
In  food  preparation  this  surface  skin  may  be  due  to  a  change,  as  coagulation 
of  a  portion  of  the  egg  by  beating  or  coagulation  of  proteins  by  heating. 
Whatever  the  cause,  beaten  eggs  and  egg  yolks  form  surface  skins  after 
standing  a  short  time,  which  is  not  entirely  due  to  a  drying  of  the  surface. 
Boiled  milk  forms  a  pronounced  skin  during  heating  and  after  cooling. 

Orientation  of  molecules.  The  molecules  at  an  interface  do  not 
lie  at  random  but  are  oriented  or  arranged  in  a  definite  manner.  The 
arrangement  assumed  depends  partly  upon  the  arrangement  of  the  atoms 
in  the  molecule.  Molecules  of  ethane  (CH3.CH3),  butane,  and  pentane 
are  symmetrical,  i.e.,  in  each  molecule  the  two  ends  are  identical.  In  acetic 
acid  (CH3.COOH)  the  two  ends  of  the  molecule  are  unsymmetrical.  In 
ethane  the  two  ends  would  behave  the  same  at  an  interface,  but  this  would 
not  hold  for  acetic  acid.  The  (CH3)  group  is  called  a  non-polar  group; 
the  (COOH)  group,  a  polar  one.  At  the  air/ water  interface  polar  groups 
always  orient  away  from  the  air  and  towards  the  water,  for  water  has 
pronounced  polar  characteristics.  "Like  attracts  like"  is  a  rule  that  all 
students  of  organic  chemistry  have  learned.  In  general,  the  polar  liquids  are 
miscible,  but  slightly  polar  liquids  are  relatively  insoluble  in  polar  liquids. 
A  substance  like  acetic  acid,  containing  a  short  hydrocarbon  chain  and  a 
polar  group,  is  completely  miscible  with  water,  for  the  (COOH)  group  is 
attracted  to  the  water  so  strongly  that  the  hydrocarbon  chain  is  also 
dragged  into  the  water.  When  two  (CH3)  groups  are  attached  to  the 
(COOH)  group,  the  solubility  is  lessened,  and  with  increasing  length  of 
the  hydrocarbon  chain  solubility  in  water  progressively  decreases.  Thus  the 
possession  of  a  polar  group  confers  upon  the  substance  a  certain  solubility 
in  water,  and  the  possession  of  a  non-polar  group  may  confer  upon  it  a 


18       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

greater  solubility  in  some  other  solvent.  Orientation  occurs  at  the  interface 
of  two  liquids,  such  as  emulsions.  Polar  groups  are  those  containing  oxygen, 
nitrogen,  sulfur,  or  iodine.  Thus  substances  containing  (COOH), 
(CHO),  or  (NH2)  groups,  or  double  bonds,  contain  polar  groups.  Polar- 
ity is  based  upon  the  concept  that  some  parts  of  a  molecule  may  have 
gained  w^hile  other  parts  may  have  lost  one  or  more  electrons.  This  results 
in  differences  in  charges  at  a  small  distance  apart.  The  polar  groups  or 
polar  substances  are  reactive;  the  non-polar  groups  or  substances  are  more 
inert. 

Cohesion.  Cohesion  refers  to  the  property  of  a  substance  whereby 
the  particles  of  a  body  are  united  throughout  the  mass.  The  particles  as  a 
unit  resist  being  torn  apart. 

Adhesion.  Adhesion  refers  to  the  attraction  whereby  the  surface  of 
a  substance  sticks  to  the  adjacent  surface  of  another  substance.  Drops  of 
water  adhere  to  glass,  and  the  dough  adheres  to  the  sides  of  the  container 
in  which  it  is  placed.  Pans  for  sponge  and  angel  cakes  are  not  greased,  so 
that  the  adhesion  of  the  cake  mixture  to  the  sides  of  the  pan  will  aid 
expansion  of  the  cake. 

Coagulation  of  Proteins 

The  term  denaturation  is  used  more  frequently  than  coagulation  by 
scientific  investigators  at  the  present  time  to  denote  certain  changes  in 
proteins.  Definite  characteristics  of  the  proteins  are  changed  when  they 
are  coagulated,  among  which  is  loss  of  solubility  in  water  and  dilute  salt 
solutions.  In  some  instances  and  under  certain  conditions  the  coagulation 
process  may  be  reversible. 

Manner  in  which  denaturation  may  be  brought  about.  Coagula- 
tion of  proteins  may  be  brought  about  by  a  variety  of  processes.  In  cookery 
one  of  the  principal  means  of  coagulation  is  heat.  But  in  addition  to  heat 
the  action  of  acids,  alkalies,  salts,  alcohol,  mechanical  agitation,  radiation, 
and  ultra-sonic  vibrations  may  denature  the  protein  and  convert  it  from  a 
soluble  into  an  insoluble  form. 

Some  changes  in  the  proteins  during  denaturation.  All  investi- 
gators agree  that  denaturation  is  brought  about  in  two  steps.  The  first  step 
is  a  preliminary  alteration  of  the  protein  or  denaturation.  The  second  is  a 
physical  change  which  leads  to  coagulation  or  aggregation.  Clayton  in 
discussing  "Foods  as  Colloid  Systems"  reviews  some  of  the  theories  of 
protein  denaturation.  ''Hydrolysis  has  been  frequently  reported  as  the 
cause  of  denaturation,  but  present  views  incline  to  the  idea  of  some  struc- 
tural rearrangement  within  the  molecule.  Thus,  the  refractive  index  in- 
creases during  heat  denaturation,  whilst  X-ray  diffraction  patterns  lead 
to  the  view  that  coagulation  is  accompanied  by  the  elimination  of  water 
between  NHo  and  COOH  groups.  .  .  .  Cubin  holds  that  denaturation  is 
the  distortion  or  opening  up  of  the  protein  unit,  whilst  flocculation  is  the 


HEAT  COAGULATION  19 

process  following  this  and  rendered  possible  by  it.  Interaction  of  NH2  and 
COOH  groups  situated  on  contiguous  colloid  units  leads  to  aggregation 
and,  hence,  coagulation." 

No  matter  how  denaturation  is  brought  about,  the  denatured  product 
has  sulfur  atoms,  the  combination  of  which  differs  from  those  in  the  native 
protein.  Mirsky  and  Anson  have  shown  that  in  native  egg  albumin  no 
sulfhydryl  (SH)  and  disulfide  (S-S)  groups  are  detectable  by  certain 
methods.  But  in  completely  coagulated  protein  the  number  of  SH  and 
S-S  groups  detectable  is  the  same  as  in  hydrolyzed  protein.  These  workers 
have  also  shown  that  in  partially  coagulated  protein  when  the  soluble  and 
insoluble  fractions  are  separated  the  soluble  portion  contains  no  detectable 
SH  or  S-S  groups,  but  the  insoluble  fraction  has  the  number  of  reactive 
SH  and  S-S  groups  characteristic  of  the  completely  denatured  protein. 
In  the  interfacial  coagulation  of  a  protein,  i.e.,  when  a  film  of  insoluble 
protein  forms  at  the  surface  of  a  protein  solution,  SH  and  S-S  groups 
appear,  the  number  being  the  same  as  that  found  in  the  hydrolyzed  protein. 
Also  when  the  proteins  are  denatured  by  ultra-violet  light,  by  acids,  or  by 
other  means  the  SH  and  S-S  groups  appear.  From  these  results  they  con- 
clude that  the  formation  of  insoluble  proteins  and  increase  in  detectable 
SH  and  S-S  groups  are  closely  linked  phenomena;  that  denaturation  is  a 
definite  chemical  reaction;  and  that  a  given  protein  molecule  is  either 
completely  native  or  completely  denaturated. 

In  a  later  paper  Mirsky  and  Anson  report  that  the  number  of  detectable 
SH  and  S-S  groups  in  different  proteins  varies  with  the  pH  and  the  tem- 
perature. To  illustrate,  native  hemoglobin  had  no  detectable  SH  groups 
at  pH  6.8.  But  with  increase  of  pH  the  SH  groups  become  detectable 
in  increasing  numbers  up  to  pH  9.6.  But  native  egg  albumin  showed  no 
detectable  group  at  pH  6.8  or  pH  9.6.  However,  denatured  hemoglobin 
had  detectable  groups  at  pH  6.8  and  still  more  at  pH  9.6.  They  found 
that  intact,  unhydrolyzed  proteins  possess  in  addition  to  SH  groups  other 
reducing  groups  which  can  be  oxidized  by  ferricyanide.  The  number  and 
activity  of  these  groups  vary  from  protein  to  protein.  They  are  probably 
contained  in  the  tyrosine  and  tryptophane  component  of  proteins.  "It  can 
now  be  seen  that  the  activation  of  SH  and  S-S  groups  in  protein  denatura- 
tion is  part  of  a  more  general  process." 

Heat  coagulation.  As  has  been  indicated  heat  coagulation  of  proteins 
is  used  in  preparation  of  food  products,  and,  fortunately  for  the  mental 
equilibrium  of  the  cook,  heat  coagulation  of  proteins  is  ordinarily  not 
reversible.  Otherwise,  many  cooked  dishes  would,  with  certain  treatment, 
revert  to  their  original  uncooked  consistency. 

Some  of  the  changes  occurring  during  heat  coagulation  of  the  proteins 
have  been  indicated.  But  these  are  not  the  only  factors  playing  a  role  in 
the  process.  Electrolytes  have  some  role  in  heat  coagulation  of  proteins. 
This  is  shown  in  the  work  with  distilled  water  egg  custards.  It  has  been 
shown  that,  if  the  mineral  content  of  egg  white  is  lowered  through  dialysis, 


20       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

coagulation  does  not  occur  on  heating.  The  effect  of  electrolytes  in  heat 
coagulation  may  be  brought  about  either  by  chemical  reaction  or  by 
adsorption.  If  the  effect  of  salts  is  brought  about  by  adsorption,  the  salts 
must  be  very  strongly  adsorbed  and  almost  impossible  to  remove  from  the 
aggregated  protein  by  washing  the  protein,  for  the  process  is  usually 
irreversible.  Any  theory  of  heat  coagulation  of  the  proteins  must  not  only 
explain  how  the  proteins  are  rendered  insoluble  by  heat  but  the  effect  of 
other  factors.  That  the  heat  coagulation  of  proteins  is  influenced  by 
electrolytes,  sugar,  temperature,  time,  the  reaction  of  the  solution,  and  the 
presence  of  water  and  other  factors  is  evident  when  the  cooking  of  eggs, 
custards,  salad  dressings,  cheese  and  egg  dishes,  baked  products,  and  meat 
is  observed.  The  effect  of  some  of  these  factors  can  be  determined  in  the 
laboratory;  but  the  understanding  of  the  manner  of  their  action  is  lacking 
in  many  instances  and  awaits  explanation  by  the  colloid  chemist  or  bio- 
chemist. 

Bancroft  and  Rutzler  have  reported  that  heat-coagulated  egg  white 
may  be  peptized  by  dextrose  and  certain  salts.  They  showed  that  the 
coagulated  and  repeptized  egg-white  sols  are  identical  with  the  original 
solution  by  immuno-biological  tests  for  species  specificity  and  isoelectric 
point  measurements.  Because  of  the  similarity  of  the  reversed  protein  to 
the  original  protein  they  believe  that  coagulation  is  a  colloidal  reaction 
which  is  due  to  a  physical  rather  than  a  chemical  change. 

Interfacial  denaturation.  Proteins  are  also  denatured  at  interfaces, 
typical  examples  being  the  insoluble  portion  of  beaten  egg  white,  and  froth 
or  foam  on  milk.  When  egg  white  or  milk  foams  are  allowed  to  remain 
undisturbed,  they  gradually  collapse  and  the  wrinkled  membranes,  skin, 
or  films  may  be  observed  through  the  microscope.  Mention  has  already 
been  made  that  protein  can  be  recovered  from  a  solution  by  removing  the 
foam.  Denaturation  of  protein  solution  occurs  by  shaking  and  in  some 
instances  spontaneously,  an  example  being  the  membrane  formed  at  the 
interface  of  an  air/protein  solution  when  no  agitation  has  occurred. 

Neurath  and  Bull  state  that  both  heat  and  surface  denaturation  proc- 
esses involve  an  unfolding  of  the  peptide  chains  which  in  the  natural  state 
are  curled  up  in  the  interior  of  the  molecule  and  become  stretched  out 
when  the  molecule  comes  in  contact  with  the  surface  of  the  bulk  of  the 
solution.  The  polar  groups  of  the  protein  molecule,  the  amino,  carboxyl, 
the  OH  groups  of  the  hydroxy  acids,  the  sulfur-containing  groups,  and 
the  peptide  linkages,  have  an  affinity  for  water;  whereas  the  non-polar  or 
lyophobic  groups,  the  hydrocarbon  residues,  tend  to  be  repelled  by  water. 
Thinking  that  an  interaction  between  the  amino  and  carboxjd  groups 
during  heat  denaturation  might  diminish  the  lyophobic  or  polar  properties 
of  natural  protein,  whereas  an  unfolding  of  the  peptide  chains  by  surface 
denaturation  might  expose  lyophobic  groups  to  the  surface,  which  in  the 
native  state  are  buried  in  the  interior,  Neurath  and  Bull  measured  the 
volume  contraction  of  native,  heat-denatured,  and  surface-denatured  pro- 


PEPTIZATION  OF  PROTEINS  21 

tei'ns.  They  found  that  the  native  protein  had  the  lowest  density,  heat- 
denatured  ones  were  intermediate,  and  the  surface-denatured  protein  had 
the  highest  density. 

This  membrane-forming  property  of  protein  through  denaturation  is 
important  in  food  preparation,  in  all  products  in  which  beaten  egg  white 
is  used,  in  emulsions,  and  wherever  interfacial  reactions  occur.  — — ^_ 

Membranes  form  readily  on  the  surface  of  protoplasm  and  play  Impor- 
tant parts  in  cell  functions.  The  presence  of  calcium  has  been  shown  to 
stiffen  the  surface  membranes  in  some  instances,  whereas  sodium  and 
potassium  in  the  absence  of  calcium  tend  to  soften  and  dissolve  the  membrane. 

This  suggests  that  salts  may  also  have  some  influence  in  surface  denatura- 
tion and  that  the  salts  of  flour,  egg,  and  milk  used  in  cooked  products  may 
modify  the  denaturation  at  surfaces. 

Clayton  states  that  high  concentrations  of  sugar  in  egg  white  will  pre- 
vent surface  denaturation,  which  of  course  has  application  in  making  angel 
cakes,  meringues,  and  sweetened  souffles. 

Peptization  of  Proteins 

Peptization  is  the  reverse  process  of  coagulation.  It  increases  dispersion 
and  solubility. 

Means  of  bringing  about  peptization.  Peptization  may  be  brought 
about  by  chemical,  electrical,  and  mechanical  means  or  by  enzymes.  Freund- 
lich  states  that  the  hydroxyl  ion  is  generally  a  very  effective  peptizer.  Other 
peptizing  ions  used  in  food  preparation  are  the  citrate,  acetate,  and  tartrate 
ions.  Peptization  brought  about  by  adsorption  has  been  mentioned. 

Peptization  of  proteins.  The  results  of  Gortner,  Hoffman,  and  Sin- 
clair show  that  different  salts  added  to  wheat  proteins  in  varying  amounts 
to  give  the  same  pH,  or  in  equivalent  concentrations,  cause  peptization 
and  solution  of  varying  amounts  of  the  proteins.  Both  cations  and  anions 
form  a  lyotropic  series.  They  found  the  anions  arranged  in  the  following 
order  of  increasing  peptization :  F  <  SO4  <  Ql  <  tartrate  <  Br  <  I ;  and 
for  the  cations  the  following  order  of  increasing  peptization :  Na  <  K  < 
Li  <  Ba  <  Sr  <  Mg  <  Ca.  Most  of  their  salt  solution  extracts  of  flour 
had  a  />H  of  5.0  to  6.0.  This  would  be  on  the  acid  side  of  the  isoelectric 
point  of  the  flour  proteins,  and  they  would  be  positively  charged.  When 
the  solubility  of  wheat  proteins  is  increased,  the  tenderness  of  the  result- 
ing bread  is  increased. 

Freundlich  states  that  hydrophobic  colloids  and  also  solids  may  be 
peptized  by  suitable  electrolytes,  but  the  process  does  not  take  place  spon- 
taneously. It  is  necessary  to  divide  up  mechanically  the  liquid  or  solid  mass 
very  finely,  in  order  that  the  charging  action  of  the  peptizing  ion  may  be 
effective.  In  some  liquids  it  is  often  suflScient  to  divide  them  by  energetic 
stirring. 

"Salting-out"  of  hydrophilic  colloids  occurs  at  high  concentrations.  But 


22       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

at  lower  concentrations  electrolytes  frequently  bring  about  peptization. 
Freundlich  states  that  this  has  been  investigated  particularly  in  some  pro- 
teins or  mixtures  of  proteins,  it  being  found  clearly  in  the  case  of  globulins. 
Some  globulins  remain  in  solution  only  in  the  range  of  their  isoelectric 
point  because  of  the  peptizing  effect  of  electrolytes. 

Both  the  concentration  of  the  electrolyte  and  its  valence  affect  the  extent 
of  peptization.  In  general,  the  peptizing  action  is  increased  with  increasing 
valence.  For  example,  there  is  little  peptization  with  the  chlorine  ion,  the 
sulfate  ion  peptizes  in  higher  concentrations,  and  the  citrate  ion  brings 
about  peptization  with  low  concentrations. 

Bound  and  Free  Water 

Water  plays  a  very  important  role  in  both  plant  and  animal  life  as  a 
solvent  for  sugars,  electrolytes,  etc.,  and  thus  in  the  translocation  of  food 
material  and  metabolism  products.  But  in  addition  to  being  a  solvent 
water  forms  part  of  the  inmost  structural  portion  of  the  cell.  For  example, 
from  muscle  tissue,  although  it  is  composed  of  more  than  65  per  cent  of 
water,  even  with  considerable  pressure  only  a  few  drops  of  liquid  can  be 
pressed.  Part  of  this  water  is  free  water,  for  it  contains  the  dissolved  salts, 
proteins,  and  other  materials.  But  as  the  period  after  death  increases, 
changes  occur  in  the  tissue,  and  greater  amounts  of  liquid  can  be  obtained 
with  pressure.  This  water,  held  by  the  colloidal  micelles  so  that  it  forms  an 
intimate  part  of  the  material,  is  designated  as  bound  water. 

Not  only  cells  of  plants  and  animal  tissues,  but  starches,  proteins  of  flour, 
gelatin,  eggs,  and  other  complex  compounds  such  as  lecithin  have  the 
capacity  to  bind  water,  giving  the  product  certain  characteristics.  The 
free  water  is  designated  as  that  portion  of  the  water  in  which  solutes  such 
as  sucrose  and  salt  can  be  dissolved.  The  bound  water  is  that  portion 
which  is  held  so  tightly  that  not  even  sucrose  will  dissolve  in  it.  The 
density  of  bound  water  is  so  great  that  some  investigators  state  it  is 
equivalent  to  having  a  press.ure  of  10  thousand  atmospheres  on  it.  From 
this  and  other  properties  bound  water  is  often  considered  as  solid  water. 
Bound  water  has  a  very  low  dielectric  constant.  Burns  states,  ''All  the 
physiological  colloids  have  the  property  of  taking  in  relatively  large  quan- 
tities of  water  even  against  enormous  pressures,  and  of  holding  this  water 
against  even  strenuous  methods  of  removal.  This  'bound'  water  stored  in 
the  micropores  is  under  considerable  compression,  so  much  so  that  its 
density  and  all  its  physical  properties  are  altered." 

The  compression  of  the  bound  water  in  bulk  is  probably  due  to  orienta- 
tion and  packing  of  the  water  molecules  around  the  micelles.  It  has  no 
appreciable  vapor  pressure  and  freezes  with  difficulty  or  forms  such  small 
ice  crystals  that  the  biological  structure  is  not  injured. 

Bound  water  often  requires  the  application  of  heat  and  suction  to  drive 
it  off.  Burns  says,  "An  alumina  gel  cannot  be  dried  by  heating  it  for  2  or  3 


FLUIDITY  AND  VISCOSITY  23 

days  at  500°C.,  yet  some  relationship  does  exist  between  the  'free'  and 
'bound'  water.  Under  certain  conditions  as  yet  undefined,  bound  water 
may  become  free  again,  and  the  reverse."  The  greater  power  of  some 
samples  of  meat  to  retain  moisture  and  yet  appear  firm  and  less  juicy  than 
other  samples  cooked  under  the  same  conditions  is  known.  Ostwald  states 
that  pork  can  be  distinguished  from  other  meats  by  the  fact  that  its  water- 
holding  capacity  suffers  the  least  change  when  cooked  or  dried.  In  his  work 
with  angel  cake  Barmore  speaks  of  the  crumb  of  cake  baked  at  higher  oven 
temperatures  as  containing  as  much  moisture  but  apparently  binding  the 
water  more  securely  for  it  appears  more  dry. 

Fluidity,  Viscosity,  and  Plasticity  of  Colloidal  Systems 

Fluidity  and  viscosity.  Bingham  uses  the  term  fluidity  to  express 
the  opposite  of  viscosit)^  A  fluid  like  water  yields  readily  to  any  force  that 
tends  to  change  its  form,  whereas  a  viscous  substance  shows  some  resistance 
to  flow.  Viscosity  is  one  of  the  important  properties  of  colloidal  systems. 
As  a  general  rule,  the  lyophobic  colloids  show  a  viscosity  but  little  greater 
than  that  of  the  dispersion  medium,  the  viscosity  increasing  only  slightly 
with  increasing  concentration  of  the  micelles.  But  the  lyophilic  colloids  may 
show  very  high  viscosities  or  even  plasticity  with  very  low  concentrations 
of  the  micelles. 

Bingham  states  that  "a  mixture  of  liquids  may  have  an  indefinite  number 
of  fluidities  dependent  upon  the  method  of  mixing,  in  other  words,  upon 
the  structure  of  the  liquid."  He  also  states  that  colloidal  solutions  show 
differences  in  fluidity  due  to  differences  in  structure.  Thus  it  is  possible  that 
cake  or  other  batters  made  with  the  same  materials  and  the  same  propor- 
tion of  materials  may  show  differences  in  the  structure  of  the  finished  cake 
on  account  of  different  methods  of  mixing,  giving  different  viscosities  to 
the  batter. 

Some  substances  flow  readily;  others  resist  flow;  and  some  must  have 
weight  applied  to  start  flow.  When  a  substance  tends  to  resist  a  shearing 
force  it  may  exhibit  a  flow  that  is  characterized  as  viscous,  turbulent,  or 
plastic.  If  the  substance  entirely  regains  its  original  shape,  when  the  shear- 
ing stress  is  removed,  it  shows  perfect  elasticity.  If  the  original  shape  is 
not  entirely  regained  and  the  substance  is  deformed  to  an  extent  directly 
proportional  to  the  shearing  force,  then  the  substance  is  said  to  show 
viscosity.  This  flow  that  is  directly  proportional  to  the  shearing  force  is 
called  linear  flow.  By  this  is  meant  that  if  a  weight  of  1  pound  produces 
a  definite  deformation,  a  weight  of  2  pounds  produces  twice  that  deforma- 
tion. Turbulent  flow  is  the  flow  obtained  when  the  ratio  of  the  shearing 
force  to  the  deformation  decreases. 

A  pure  liquid  at  a  given  temperature  and  pressure  has  a  definite  fluidity. 
The  viscosity  of  water  is  approximately  six  times  as  great  at  0°  as  at 
100°C.  The  viscosity  of  sols  usually  decreases  with  an  increase  in  tem- 


24       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

perature,  part  of  this  being  due  to  the  effect  of  temperature  upon  the 
intermicellar  liquid.  Gortner  states  that  in  "colloid  systems  changes  due 
to  temperature  are  influenced  not  only  by  the  viscosity  of  the  dispersion 
medium  but  likewise  by  the  effect  of  temperature  on  solvation."  Thus 
gelatin  and  agar-agar  form  sols  with  rather  low  viscosity  at  high  tempera- 
tures when  compared  to  the  viscous  liquid  or  plastic  gels  they  form  at  low 
temperatures.  Starch  usually  forms  a  suspension  at  low  temperatures,  and 
its  decided  increase  in  viscosity  or  plasticity  comes  with  rapid  hydration  at 
the  gelatinization  point.  Gortner  states  that  heating  a  starch  paste  beyond 
the  gelatinization  temperature  causes  a  decrease  in  viscosity  or  plasticity. 
Electrolytes  added  to  lyophilic  systems,  often  even  in  traces,  cause  great 
changes  in  the  viscosity  of   the  sol. 

The  factors  affecting  the  viscosity  of  lyophilic  systems.  Gort- 
ner adds  an  eleventh  factor,  that  of  rate  of  shear,  pointed  out  by  Sharp 
and  Gortner,  to  the  ten  given  by  Ostwald  that  cause  variation  in  the 
viscosity  of  lyophilic  systems.  They  are  as  follows:  (1)  concentration, 
(2)  temperature,  (3)  degree  of  dispersion,  (4)  solvation,  (5)  electrical 
charge,  (6)  previous  thermal  treatment,  (7)  previous  mechanical  treat- 
ment, (8)  the  presence  or  absence  of  other  lyophilic  colloids,  (9)  the  age 
of  the  lyophilic  sol,  (10)  the  presence  of  both  electrolytes  and  non-elec- 
trolytes, and  (11)  the  rate  of  shear. 

Viscosity  is  closely  related  to  the  consistency  of  the  finished  product  in 
food  preparation.  So  close  is  this  relation  in  many  cases  that  the  ten  factors 
listed  by  Ostwald  may  nearly  be  taken  as  ten  commandments  of  food 
preparation.  Thus  the  consistency  of  a  custard  is  influenced  by  the  concen- 
tration of  egg  or  the  protein  micelles;  the  temperature  to  which  it  is 
cooked ;  the  degree  of  dispersion  of  the  micelles,  which  is  influenced  by  the 
reaction  and  other  factors;  the  degree  of  hydration,  which  is  influenced  by 
reaction,  the  kind  and  concentration  of  salts  present,  etc. ;  the  beating 
of  the  egg;  the  use  of  milk  or  w^ater;  how  long  the  custard  has  aged  in 
addition  to  the  age  of  the  eggs  and  milk  when  used ;  the  kinds  and  con- 
centration of  salts  in  the  egg  and  milk  as  well  as  the  addition  of  sodium 
chloride  and  the  non-electrolyte  sugar. 

Since  the  line  of  demarcation  between  sols  and  gels  is  not  a  definite  one, 
fruit  jellies,  gelatin,  milk,  cream,  as  well  as  egg  dishes,  may  be  added  to 
the  group  of  foods  in  which  the  consistency  of  the  finished  product  is  related 
to  viscosity.  But  this  does  not  end  the  application,  for  the  structure  or  type 
of  product  in  baked  goods  is  closely  related  to  the  viscosity  of  the  batter  or 
dough,  which  in  turn  is  influenced  by  all  these  factors.  Of  course  these 
factors  or  nearly  the  same  ones  affect  other  properties  as  well  as  viscosity  of 
food  materials.  Thus  the  extensibility  of  gluten,  the  heat  coagulation  of 
proteins,  etc.,  are  influenced  by  many  or  all  of  these  factors. 

Plasticity.  Bingham  defines  plasticity  as  "a  property  of  solids  in  virtue 
of  which  they  hold  their  shape  permanently  under  the  action  of  small 
shearing  stresses  but  they  are  readily  deformed,  worked  or  molded,  under 


ENERGETICS  25 

somewhat  larger  stresses.  Plasticity  is  thus  a  complex  property,  made  up 
of  two  independent  factors,  which  we  must  evaluate  separately."  Modeling 
clay  is  plastic.  Plasticity  is  an  important  property  of  fats  used  for  cakes, 
biscuits,  and  pastry.  A  plastic  fat  has  a  consistency  such  that  it  will  form 
a  thin  sheet  or  layer  in  a  batter  or  it  will  retain  air  bubbles  when 
''creamed."  The  enclosing  of  these  air  bubbles  in  the  fat  is  an  aid  in  leaven- 
ing cakes  and  may  assist  in  obtaining  a  velvety  texture,  for  the  enclosing 
of  the  air  renders  the  fat  more  plastic,  thus  more  easily  distributed  in  the 
batter  at  lower  temperatures. 

Energetics 

Burns  states,  "Energy  is  the  underlying  cause  of  all  changes  in  matter. 
This  does  not  seem  a  very  satisfactory  definition,  but,  so  far,  it  is  the  only 
one  possible.  .  .  .  Energy,  then,  is  that  which  produces  an  effect  on  our 
senses."  It  is  measured  by  its  power  to  do  work. 

Energy  in  some  form  is  often  applied  to  the  materials  used  for  food 
products.  This  energy  may  be  electrical,  mechanical,  or  in  the  form  of  heat. 

An  electric  current  passed  through  a  food  may  be  used  to  cook  it.  Very 
interesting  experiments  are  being  carried  out  along  this  line  of  work  by  the 
Household  Equipment  Department  at  Iowa  State  College.  One  of  the 
striking  results  is  the  very  short  time  required  to  cook  the  food.  The  pas- 
sage of  an  electric  current  is  used  by  some  companies  to  pasteurize  milk 
and  by  some  to  sterilize  fruit  juices. 

Mechanical  energy  is  used  to  beat,  stir,  fold,  knead,  or  grind  food. 

The  frequency  of  application  of  heat  to  foods  does  not  need  to  be  men- 
tioned, for  this  is  what  the  term  to  cook  means.  Foods  may  be  cooked  by 
radiant  heat;  or  by  transmission  of  the  heat  by  conduction,  i.e.,  from  parti- 
cle to  particle ;  or  by  convection,  which  is  the  diffusion  of  heat  through  a  gas 
or  liquid  by  movement  of  the  gas  or  liquid  particles.  A  combination  of  these 
methods  may  be  used  to  transmit  the  heat.  Oven  cooking  employs  all  three. 

Kinetic  energy  is  due  to  motion.  It  may  be  due  to  motion  of  the  sub- 
stance itself  or  of  the  particles  composing  it.  It  is  directly  available  for 
work.  Potential  energy  is  associated  with  position,  i.e.,  composition,  stress, 
or  strain.  Kinetic  energy  is  necessary  to  liberate  it  to  perform  work. 

Just  as  matter  is  indestructible,  though  its  form  may  be  changed,  so  is 
energy  indestructible.  This  constitutes  the  first  law  of  thermodynamics. 
The  law  of  Hess  states  that  the  amount  of  heat  generated  by  a  chemical 
reaction  is  the  same  whether  it  takes  place  all  at  once  or  in  steps. 

The  second  law  of  thermodynamics  concerns  the  degradation  or  dissipa- 
tion of  energy.  In  practise,  some  of  the  freed  energy  is  converted  into  heat, 
which  is  diffused  among  the  surrounding  objects,  and,  so  far  as  work  is 
concerned,  is  lost.  Burns  states  the  law  simply:  "Every  change  takes  place 
at  the  cost  of  a  certain  amount  of  available  energy."  He  adds  that  the 
second  law  lends  itself  to  the  deduction  that  the  cause  of  all  change  is  the 


26      RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

tendency  of  energy  to  attain  the  same  uniform  degree  of  intensity  as  that 
of  its  environment.  This  means  that  any  system  tends  to  change  to  the 
most  stable  state. 

Bread  during  baking  tends  to  attain  a  physico-chemical  equilibrium.  But 
the  temperature  attained  during  baking  is  much  higher  than  the  storage 
temperature.  Freshly  baked  bread  does  not  taste  or  feel  like  bread  24  hours 
old.  Bread  can  be  stored  so  that  it  loses  no  moisture,  yet  readjustments  in 
the  loaf  take  place,  so  that  staling  occurs.  If  bread  is  stored  at  temperatures 
of  60°C.  or  above,  the  texture  remains  more  like  that  of  freshly  baked 
bread  and  staling  is  not  perceptible.  But  at  this  temperature  bacterial 
changes  occur  readily.  If  the  bread  has  not  lost  considerable  moisture,  upon 
reheating  it,  it  acquires  the  characteristics  of  freshly  baked  bread. 

The  principle  of  Le  Chatelier  gives  the  factors  of  equilibrium:  ''Every 
system  in  chemical  equilibrium,  under  the  influence  of  a  change  of  any 
single  one  of  the  factors  of  equilibrium,  undergoes  a  transformation  in 
such  direction  that,  if  this  transformation  took  place  alone,  it  vv^ould  pro- 
duce a  change  in  the  opposite  direction  of  the  factor  in  question.  The 
factors  of  equilibrium  are  temperature,  pressure  and  electromotive  force, 
corresponding  to  three  forms  of  energy;  heat,  electricity  and  mechanical 
energy." 

Hydrogen-Ion  Concentration 

The  symbol  pH  is  very  commonly  used  in  present-day  literature.  Some 
explanation  of  the  term  and  its  relation  to  hydrogen-ion  concentration  is 
desirable.  Perhaps  it  w^ill  be  best  to  review  briefly  what  is  meant  by  hydro- 
gen-ion concentration.  In  a  solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  in  water,  the 
molecule  of  the  acid  consists  of  an  atom  of  hydrogen  united  to  an  atom  of 
chlorine.  Hydrochloric  acid  molecules  are  found  in  the  solution,  but  not  all 
the  acid  remains  in  the  molecular  form.  Part  of  the  acid  molecules  are 
ionized  into  hydrogen  ions  and  chlorine  ions,  the  degree  of  ionization  de- 
pending upon  the  concentration,  the  more  dilute  the  acid  solution  the 
greater  the  percentage  of  hydrochloric  acid  ionized.  The  hydrogen  ions  are 
positively  charged,  and  the  chlorine  ions  are  negatively  charged.  In  symbols, 
the  ionization  of  hydrochloric  acid  is  expressed  as  follows: 

HCl    1==;    H+    +    Cl- 

When  a  substance  is  ionized  in  solution  the  solution  conducts  an  elec- 
trical current. 

When  water  is  ionized  it  gives  both  hydrogen  ions  and  hydroxyl  ions. 
Since  the  ionization  of  water  is  very  slight,  the  amount  of  hydrogen  and 
hydroxyl  ions  in  a  liter  of  water  is  not  great. 

H2O    tzzzz;    H+    +    OH- 
In  pure  water  the  concentration  of  hydrogen  ions  and  hydroxyl   ions  is 


HYDROGEN-ION  CONCENTRATION  27 

equal  at  22°C.  The  reaction  of  water  varies  at  various  temperatures,  so 
that  the  following  discussion  is  confined  to  room  temperature  or  22 °C.  The 

concentration  of  the  hydrogen  ions  and  hydroxyl  ions  is  of  a 

10,000,000 

gram-molecular  weight  (mole)  each  per  liter.  A  normal  solution  of  hydro- 
gen ions  contains  1  gram-molecular  weight  (1  gram)  of  hydrogen  ions  per 
liter  of  solution;  a  normal  solution  of  hydroxyl  ions  contains  1  gram- 
molecular  weight  (17  grams)  of  hydroxyl  ions  per  liter  of  solution.  A  liter 

of  pure  water  contains  of  a  mole  of  hydrogen.  This  requires 

10,000,000 

many  figures  to  express  as  a  fraction,  so  for  convenience  the  concentration 

is  expressed  as  follows :       ^^  =  10"'^.  Again  for  convenience  Sorensen 

proposed  to  disregard  the  minus  sign  and  use  the  numerical  value  of  the 
exponent  10  to  express  the  reaction  corresponding  to  the  concentration  of 
hydrogen  ions. 

When  the  concentration  of  the  hydroxyl  ions  is  equal  to  that  of  the 

hydrogen  ions,  the  concentration  of  hydroxyl  ions  is  also  of  a 

10,000,000 

mole  or  10~^.  This  is  the  neutral  point.  The  term  pH  is  used  to  denote  the 
concentration  of  the  hydrogen  ions  only.  Sometimes  />OH  is  used  to  denote 
the  concentration  of  the  hydroxyl  ions.  Thus  when  the  concentration  of  the 
hydrogen  ions  is  pH  7,  that  of  the  hydroxyl  ions  is  pOH  7.  If  the  con- 
centration of  the  hydroxyl  ions  is  multiplied  by  the  concentration  of  the 
hydrogen  ions  a  definite  product  is  obtained.  In  fractions  this  would  be 
written  thus : 


X 


10,000,000      10,000,000      100,000,000,000,000 

But  in  the  exponential  notation  it  is  expressed  as  follows: 

10-7  X  10-7  =  10-1^ 

When  the  hydrogen-ion  concentration  in  a  solution  is  increased,  the  hy- 
droxyl-ion  concentration  is  decreased,  so  that  the  product  of  the  concentra- 
tion of  the  hydrogen  and  hydroxyl  ions  always  gives  10~^^,  and  this  is  a 
constant  for  the  product  of  these  two  ions.  Thus  in  a  solution  that  has  a 
pH  6  the  hydrogen  ions  exceed  the  hydroxyl  ions  but  the  product  of  their 
concentrations  is  the  constant   10^^^.  In  a  solution  that  has  a  pH  6  the 

concentration  of  the  hydrogen  ions  expressed  in  fractions  is  ^^  of 

1,000,000 

a  mole  of  hydrogen.  In  the  same  solution  the  concentration  of  the  hy- 
droxyl ions  is ^  of  a  mole.  The  product  of  these  two  concentra- 

^  100,000,000 


28       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

tions  gives  the  constant.  Expressed  in  exponential  notation  it  is  10"^  X 
10"^  =  10"^"*.  In  a  solution  that  has  a  pH  8  the  hydroxyl  ions  exceed  the 
hydrogen  ions  but  the  product  of  their  concentration  is  again  10"^^.  When 
the  concentration  of  the  hydrogen  ions  is  pH  3  or  10~^  then  the  concentra- 
tion of  the  hydroxyl  ions  is  10"^^  and  their  product  is  again  10^^^. 

Literally,  the  term  pH  means  to  a  power.  It  is  used  to  express  the  re- 
action of  a  fluid,  that  is,  its  degree  of  acidity  or  alkalinity,  but  it  does  not 
do  this  directl)^,  as  is  shown  in  the  above  equations.  It  is  an  inverse  logarith- 
mic function,  deprived  of  its  minus  sign.  Experimentally  it  is  determined 
electrometrically  and  is  really  a  number  obtained  from  determining  the 
electromotive  force  (E.M.F. )  of  a  substance  in  a  suitable  apparatus  and 
by  using  this  value  of  (E.M.F.)  in  a  formula,  computing  the  pH. 

Hydrogen-ion  concentration  refers  to  the  concentration  of  the  ionized  or 
active  ions  per  liter  of  substance.  The  pH  value  does  not  represent  this 
directly  but  for  all  practical  purposes  may  be  taken  as  a  value  represent- 
ing it. 

The  relation  of  hydrogen-ion  concentration  and  />H  values  in  solutions 
of  varying  normalities  is  given  below. 

TABLE  3 


Solution 

Grams  of  hydroo;en 
ion  per  Hter 

pH  value 

Normal 

1.0 

0 

N/m 

0.1 

1 

A/ 100 

0.01 

2 

A/ 1000 

0.001 

3 

A/ 10, 000 

0.0001 

4 

A/ 100, 000 

0.00001 

5 

A/ 1,000, 000 

0.000001 

6 

A/ 10, 000, 000 

0.0000001 

7 

The  above  arrangement  shows  that  the  pH  value  is  not  an  arithmetical 
series  or  ratio  but  varies  according  to  the  logarithmic  notation.  Thus  />H  2 
is  not  one-half  of  pH   1  but  one-tenth  of  it. 

The  number  of  times  the  hydrogen-ion  and  hydroxyl-ion  concentrations 
of  a  solution  exceed  that  of  pure  water  may  be  shown  as  follows.  The 
arrangement  is  by  Alexander. 

The  pH  values  are  determined  by  two  methods:  the  principal  one  is  by 
electrometric  determinations,  the  other  is  by  the  use  of  indicators.  The 
latter  is  a  rapid  and  a  very  useful  way  to  determine  an  approximate  pH 
value  and  to  check  apparatus.  For  an  accurate  determination  the  electro- 
metric  method  must  be  used. 


REFERENCES 
TABLE  4 


29 


pH  value 

Number  of  times  that 

the 

H-  orOH-ion  concentration  exceeds 

th 

at  of  pure  water 

1 

1,000,000 

2 

100,000 

3 

10,000 

acid  side 

4 

1,000 

H-ion  concentration 

5 

100 

6 

10 

7 

0 

pure  water,  neutral 

8 

10 

9 

100 

10 

1,000 

11 

10,000 

alkaline  side 

12 

100,000 

OH-ion  concentration 

13 

1,000,000 

LITERATURE    CITED    AND    REFERENCES 

Alexander,   J.      Colloid    Chemistry.     An   Introduction   with   Some   Practical   Appli- 
cations.    Van  Nostrand  Co.   (1924). 
Alexander,    J.      Colloid    Chemistry,    Theoretical    and    Applied.      By    International 

Contributors.     Collected   and  edited  by  J.  Alexander.     Chemical   Catalog  Co. 

(1926). 
Bancroft,  W.  D.     Applied  Colloid  Chemistry.     McGraw-Hill  Co.,  3rd  Ed.   (1932). 
Bancroft,    W.    D.,    and    Rutzler,   J.   E.,   Jr.     The    Denaturation   of   Egg   Albumin. 

J.  Physical  Chem.  35:  144   (1931). 
Bechhold,  H.     Colloids  in  Biology  and  Medicine.     Translation  by  G.  M.  Bullowa. 

Van  Nostrand  Co.  (1919). 
Bingham,  E.  C.     Fluidity  and  Plasticity.     McGraw-Hill  Co.    (1922). 
Bingham,  E.  C.     Viscous  and  Plastic  Flow  in  Colloid  Systems,  p.  430.     Colloidal 

Behavior,  edited  by  R.  H.  Bogue.     McGraw-Hill  Co.  (1924). 
Buchanan,   R.   E.,    and    Fulmer,    E.    I.      Physiology    and    Biochemistry   of   Bacteria. 

V^illiams  &  Wilkins  Co,   (1928). 
Burns,   D.     An   Introduction  to  Biophysics.      Second   Edition.     J.   &   A.   Churchill 

(1929). 
Clayton,  W.     Foods  as  Colloid  Systems.     Food  4:  193    (1935). 
Collins,  W.  D.     Laboratory  Thermometers.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  13:  240   (1921). 
Denton,  M.  C.     What  is  Experimental  Cookery?     J.  Home  Econ.   11:  119    (1919). 
Gortner,  R.  A.     Outlines  of  Biochemistry.     John  Wiley  &  Sons    (1929). 
Gortner,  R.  A.,   and   Doherty,  E.   H.     Hydration  Capacity  of  Gluten  from   Strong 

and  Weak  Flours.     J.  Agri.  Research  13:  389   (1913). 
Fischer,  M.  H.     Soaps  and  Proteins.     John  Wiley  &  Sons  (1921). 
Freundlich,  H.     The  Elements  of  Colloidal  Chemistry.     Translation  by  G.  Barger. 

Methuen  &  Co.  and  E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.  (1924). 
Freundlich,  H.     Colloid  and  Capillary  Chemistry.     Translation  by  H.   S.  Hatfield. 

Methuen  &  Co.  and  E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.  (1926). 


30       RELATION  OF  COOKERY  TO  COLLOID  CHEMISTRY 

Harkins,  W.  D.  Surface  Energy  and  Surface  Tension,  p.  192.  Colloid  Chemistry, 
by  J.  Alexander.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1926). 

Holmes,  H.  N.  Laboratory  Manual  of  Colloid  Chemistry.  John  Wiley  &  Sons 
(1922). 

Kopaczewski,  W.  Physics,  Chemistry  and  Colloidal  State,  p.  547.  Colloid  Chem- 
istry, by  J.  Alexander.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1926). 

Kruyt,  H.  R.  Colloids.  Translation,  by  H.  S.  van  Klooster.  John  Wiley  &  Sons 
(1927). 

Langmuir,  I.  The  Constitution  and  Fundamental  Properties  of  Solids  and  Liquids. 
IL     Liquids.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  39:  1848    (1917). 

Lloyd,  D.  J.  The  Problem  of  Gel  Structure,  p.  767.  Colloid  Chemistry,  by 
J.   Alexander.      Chemical   Catalog  Co.    (1926). 

Loeb,  J.  Proteins  and  the  Theory  of  Colloidal  Behavior.  McGraw-Hill  Co. 
(1922). 

Loeb,  J.  Crystalloidal  and  Colloidal  Behavior  of  Proteins,  p.  23.  Colloidal  Be- 
havior,  by  R.   H.   Bogue.     McGraw-Hill   Co.    (1922). 

Mirsky,  A.  E.,  and  Anson,  M.  L.  Sulfhydryl  and  Disulfide  Groups  of  Proteins, 
n.  The  Relation  between  Number  of  -SH-  and  -S-S-  Groups  and  Quantity 
of  Insoluble  Protein  in  Denaturation  and  in  Reversed  Denaturation.  J.  Gen. 
Physiology  19:  427   (1936). 

Mirsky,  A.  E.,  and  Anson,  M.  L.  Sulfhydryl  and  Disulfide  Groups  of  Proteins. 
in.  Sulfhydryl  Groups  of  Native  Proteins,  Hemoglobin,  and  the  Proteins  of 
the  Crystalline  Lens.     J.  Gen.  Physiology  19:  439    (1936). 

Mirsky,  A.  E.,  and  Anson,  M.  L.  The  Reducing  Groups  of  Proteins.  J.  Gen. 
Physiology  19:  451    (1936). 

Neurath,  H.,  and  Bull,  H.  B.  The  Denaturation  and  Hydration  of  Proteins. 
I.     J.  Biol.  Chem.  115:  519   (1936). 

Ostwald,  Wo.  Theoretical  and  Applied  Colloid  Chemistry.  Translation  by 
M.  H.  Fischer.     John  Wiley  &  Sons   (1922). 

Ostwald,  Wo.,  Wolski,  P.,  and  Kuhn,  A.  Practical  Colloid  Chemistry.  Trans- 
lation by  I.  N.  Kugelmass  and  T.  Cleveland.     Methuen  &  Co.     London   (1926). 

Rahn,  O.  Why  Cream  and  Egg  White  Whips.  Explained  on  the  Theory  of  Stable 
Foams.     Food  Ind.  4:  300    (1932). 

Robertson,  T.  B.  The  Physical  Chemistry  of  the  Proteins.  Longmans  Green  & 
Co.    (1918). 

Von  Weimarn,  P.  P.  Theory  of  the  Colloid  State  of  Matter,  p.  27.  Colloid  Chem- 
istry, by  J.  Alexander.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1926). 

Waidner,  C.  E.,  and  Mueller,  E.  F.  Note  on  Partial  and  Total  Immersion  Ther- 
mometers.    Ind.  and  Eng.  Chem.  13:  237  (1921). 

Zsigmondy,  R.     The   Chemistry  of  Colloids.     John  Wiley  &  Sons    (1917). 


CHAPTER  II 

SUGAR  COOKERY 

Classification  of  the  Carbohydrates 

The  carbohydrates  are  divided  into  three  groups:  the  monosaccharids, 
disaccharids,  and  polysaccharids.  The  monosaccharids  are  composed  of  one 
saccharid  or  sugar  group.  They  are  sometimes  called  simple  sugars.  The 
monosaccharids  difiEer  from  each  other  in  the  number  of  carbon  groups 
and  in  the  molecular  arrangement.  The  monosaccharids  contain  alcohol 
groups  (HCOH),  the  number  of  which  may  vary  from  one  to  six. 
In  addition  to  the  alcohol  group  a  monosaccharid  contains  either  an 
aldehyde  (HC  =  O)  or  a  ketone  (C  =  O)  group.  Thus  they  are  aldehyde 
or  ketone  derivatives  of  complex  alcohols  and  as  such  are  called  aldoses  or 
ketoses. 

A  biose  is  a  sugar  w^ith  two  carbon  groups,  an  alcohol  group  being  at- 
tached to  one  carbon  and  an  aldehyde  group  to  the  other.  A  triose  has 
three  carbon  groups  and  has  alcohol  groups  attached  to  two  carbons  and 
either  an  aldehyde  or  ketone  to  the  third  carbon.  The  common  monosac- 
charids in  foods  are  the  hexoses,  which  contain  six  carbon  groups.  Five 
of  the  carbons  have  alcohol  groups,  but  the  sixth  has  an  aldehyde  or  ketone. 
The  common  hexoses  are  dextrose  and  levulose,  the  former  being  an  aldose, 
and  the  latter  a  ketose.  The  following  formulas  though  not  conveying  the 
exact  arrangement  of  the  molecule  illustrate  the  above  points. 


CH2OH  CH2OH 

CHOH  CHOH 

CHOH  CHOH 


i 


HOH  CHOH 

CHOH  C  =  O 

CHO  CH2OH 

Dextrose  Levulose 


All  sugars  higher  than  tetroses  may  assume  two  structural  forms,  the 
pyran  and  the  furan.  The  pyran  form  for  a  hexose  sugar  is  a  ring  composed 
of  five  carbons  and  one  oxygen  with  one  carbon  outside  the  ring;  the  furan 

31 


32 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


form  is  a  ring  of  four  carbons  and  one  oxygen  with  two  carbons  outside 
tlie  ring. 


H 


CHo — O 

/  \ 

CH  CH 

\  ^ 

CH CH 


Pvi 


O 

/\ 

CH  CH 

\  ^ 

CH— CH 


Furan 


-0 


H   /  H  \   H 

/  \ 

\  / 

HO   \  H       HO    /     CH2OH 


HO.CH^ 


OH       H 

Beta-fructopyranose 

o 

/  \ 


OH 


H   \    H      HO   /    CH2OH 


OH      H 

Beta-fructofuranose 


The  two  structural  forms  of  the  sugars  are  represented  by  the  terms 
glucopyranose  and  glucofuranose  for  glucose,  fructopyranose  and  fructo- 
furanose  for  fructose,  etc.  To  avoid  confusion  of  nomenclature,  prefixes 
are  added  to  the  terms  indicating  structural  form  to  differentiate  the 
stereochemical  forms  (the  same  chemical  and  basic  structural  form  but 
with  different  spacial  arrangements  of  the  hydrogen  and  h^'droxyl  groups). 
Thus  the  prefixes  alpha-,  beta-,  gamma-,  etc.,  added  to  the  name  of  the 
sugar  with  the  ending  denoting  the  structural  form,  such  as  alpha-gluco- 
pyranose,  beta-glucofuranose,  definitely  identify  each  sugar. 

Haworth  and  his  coworkers  at  Birmingham  have  worked  out  in  detail 
the  way  in  which  sugar  units  are  united  into  chains.  Haworth  states  that 
there  are  several  ways  in  w^hich  two  glucose  units  may  be  joined  through 
the  intermediary  of  a  common  oxygen  atom.  But  of  the  several  OH  posi- 
tions available  for  providing  the  union  of  two  glucose  units,  it  has  been 
found  that  the  union  is  formed  through  the  first  carbon  of  one  unit  and 
the  fourth  carbon  of  the  other  glucose  unit.  Maltose  is  formed,  as  shown, 
by  the  union  of  two  alpha-glucopyranose  units.  The  union  of  about  30 
alpha-glucopyranose  units  in  this  manner,  according  to  Haworth  forms 
starch,  though  all  investigators  do  not  agree  on  the  number  of  glucose 
units  in  the  starch  chain.   (See  discussion  of  starch  in  Chapter  XL) 

Cellulose  is  composed  of  many  beta-cellobiose  units.  In  a  manner  similar 
to  that   in  which   maltose   is   formed,   two  beta-glucopyranose   units   form 


CLASSIFICATION  OF  THE  CARBOHYDRATES 


33 


HO.CH 


HO.CH, 


The  union  of  two  a-glucopyranose  units  gives  a-maltose 


HO.CH, 


C- 

/\ 
H    /    H 


-0 


\ 


i;^ 


\    OH 

\l 
C— 

I 
H 


/ 


H 

J 
C 


1— O- 


in 


HO.CH, 

H    /    H 

1/ 
C 

-'     \    OH 


-0 


H 

I 

OH 


H 

/Ah 


a-maltose 


beta-cellobiose.  Sucrose  is  composed  of  one  alpha-glucopyranose  united 
through  the  first  carbon  to  beta-fructopyranose. 

The  disaccharids  contain  two  monosaccharid  sugar  groups;  the  poly- 
saccharids  contain  many  sugar  groups.  There  are  also  trisaccharids.  There 
is  always  the  possibility  that  the  trisaccharids  and  some  of  the  other  rare 
sugars  may  become  commercially  important,  but  at  the  present  time  they 
are  little  used  except  in  scientific  w^ork. 

The  common  disaccharids  found  in  foods  are  sucrose,  maltose,  and  lac- 
tose. Sucrose  is  composed  of  one  dextrose  and  one  levulose  group;  maltose 
is  made  up  of  two  dextrose  groups ;  and  lactose  is  composed  of  one  dextrose 
and  one  galactose  group. 

Following  is  a  list  of  the  common  carbohydrates  used  in  foods.  For  a 
complete  list  a  physiological  or  organic  chemistry  may  be  consulted. 


MONOSACCHARIDS : 

Dextrose  or  glucose 
Levulose  or  fructose 


Disaccharids: 
Sucrose 
Maltose 
Lactose 


POLYSACCHARIDS : 

Dextrins 

Starch 

Cellulose 

Pectins 

Gums 


34  SUGAR  COOKERY 


Sources  o£  the  Common  Sugars 

Dextrose  or  glucose,  for  it  is  known  by  both  names,  is  widely  distributed 
in  fruits,  honey,  and  some  vegetables.  The  sugar  known  by  the  trade  name 
"Cerelose"  is  practically  a  pure  crystalline  dextrose  and  is  made  from  corn. 
The  term  dextrose  or  glucose  should  be  applied  to  crystalline  dextrose 
or  its  solution.  Commercial  corn  sirup  has  been  incorrectly  called  glucose. 
It  is  made  from  corn,  the  starch  being  hydrolyzed  with  acid.  Hydrolysis 
is  carried  to  the  point  at  which  40  to  50  per  cent  of  the  starch  is  changed 
to  sugar,  the  remainder  being  split  into  dextrins.  The  sirup  contains  both 
dextrose  and  maltose,  but  for  convenience  the  sugar  is  usually  all  deter- 
mined and  expressed  as  dextrose.  Thus  corn  sirup  is  a  mixture  of  dextrin, 
maltose,  dextrose,  and  water. 

Levulose  or  fructose  is  also  widely  distributed  in  natural  foods,  often 
accompanying  dextrose,  or  dextrose  and  sucrose.  At  present,  pure  crystalline 
levulose  is  expensive.  Honey  contains  nearly  equal  parts  of  dextrose  and 
levulose.  When  honey  crystallizes,  the  greater  part  of  the  levulose  is  in 
the  sirup  and  the  dextrose  in  the  crystals. 

Sucrose  is  widely  distributed  in  plants,  often  with  dextrose  and  levulose. 
The  common  sources  of  it  commercially  are  the  sugar  beet,  the  sugar  cane, 
the  sugar  maple,  and  the  sugar  palm.  It  is  the  common  granulated  sugar 
on  the  market  and  is  practically  pure  whether  obtained  from  the  beet  or 
cane.  Maple  sugar  is  not  purified,  for  it  would  then  lose  the  flavor  for 
which  we  prize  it. 

Maltose  is  formed  as  an  intermediate  product  when  starch  is  hydrolyzed 
by  boiling  with  mineral  acid  in  the  manufacture  of  commercial  corn  sirup 
from  corn.  Commercially  it  is  prepared  from  starch  by  a  diastatic  enzyme 
and  it  is  also  found  in  germinating  cereals  and  malt  products. 

Lactose  is  obtained  from  milk.  One  of  its  uses  is  for  infant  feeding. 

Relative  Sweetness  of  the  Sugars 

Sweetness  is  a  quality  that  is  detected  by  taste,  but  there  is  no  exact 
test  for  it.  Much  depends  upon  how  the  test  is  conducted,  whether  the 
tongue  is  dry  or  moist,  upon  what  part  of  the  tongue  the  sample  is  placed, 
and  with  several  other  conditions,  the  fatigue  of  the  sense  of  taste.  Some 
persons  detect  sweetness  in  less  concentrations  than  others.  It  cannot  be 
expected  that  all  people  will  agree  in  their  estimates  of  the  relative  sweet- 
ness of  the  sugars,  even  with  carefully  worked  out  tests. 

In  rating  the  sweetness  of  the  various  sugars  it  is  a  commonly  accepted 
practise  to  rate  sucrose  as  100.  Sugars  sweeter  than  sucrose  are  ranked 
higher  than  100,  and  those  less  sweet  are  ranked  lower. 

Biester  and  Wood  of  the  University  of  Minnesota  give  the  following 
rating  to  sugars : 


EFFECT  OF  ACID  UPON  SUGARS  35 

Levulose 173.3 

Sucrose 100.0 

Dextrose 74 . 3 

Maltose 32.5 

Lactose 16.0 

Sale  and  Skinner  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  (Water  and  Beverage 
Laboratory)  rate  the  sugars  as  follows: 

Sucrose 100 

Dextrose 50 

Levulose 150 

Maltose 50 

Invert  sugar 85 

Paul  in  comparing  the  sweetness  of  several  sugars  with  sucrose  gives 
the  following  value : 

Sucrose 100 

Dextrose 52 

Levulose 103 

Lactose 28 

A  commonly  accepted  value  of  dextrose  at  the  present  time  is  about 
70  to  75.  There  is  the  probability  that  this  is  too  high  and  that  50  is  a 
better  figure.  Levulose  is  conceded  by  all  to  be  sweeter  than  sucrose,  but 
again  there  is  no  agreement  as  to  how  much  sweeter.  Some  authorities  rank 
it  120  to  125.  With  the  higher  figures  for  the  sweetening  powers  of  dex- 
trose and  levulose  it  would  seem  that  invert  sugar  should  be  sweeter  than 
the  original  sucrose.  But  the  manufacturers  of  carbonated  beverages,  to 
whom  this  would  be  beneficial,  since  they  use  solutions  of  sirup,  do  not 
think  that  invert  sugar  is  any  sweeter  than  sucrose,  even  though  342  units 
of  sucrose  yield  360  units  of  invert  sugar  or  a  gain  of  5  per  cent  in  weight. 

Effect  of  Acid  upon  Sugars  and  Hydrolysis  of  Sugars 

Strong  concentrated  acids  decompose  all  the  sugars  producing  humus  or 
caramel  substances.  The  weak  acids,  malic  and  citric  in  fruits,  lactic  in  sour 
milk,  acetic  acid,  and  salts  with  an  acid  reaction  like  cream  of  tartar,  affect, 
the  sugars  in  different  degrees,  depending  on  the  particular  acid  used,  the 
strength  of  the  acid,  whether  it  is  heated,  and  the  length  of  time  of  heating. 

The  monosaccharids,  dextrose  and  levulose,  are  not  affected  to  any  ap- 
preciable extent  by  weak  acids.  When  sucrose  is  cooked  with  weak  acids 
it  is  partially  hydrolyzed  to  dextrose  and  levulose,  but  since  the  invert 
sugars  are  not  affected  by  the  acid  practically  no  other  change  takes  place. 

Lactose  is  only  very  slowly  hydrolyzed  by  acid  to  dextrose  and  galactose. 

Maltose  is  less  readily  affected  by  acid  than  sucrose,  but  is  slowly  hy- 
drolyzed to  two  molecules  of  dextrose. 

Sucrose  and  fondant.  Sucrose  is  very  easily  hydrolyzed,  even  by  very 


36  SUGAR  COOKERY 

weak  acids,  tlioui^h  the  addition  of  water  to  the  sugar  molecule  cannot 
be  brought  about  by  mixing  sugar  and  water,  but  may  be  brought  about 
by  enzymes  as  well  as  acids.  The  weak  acids  used  in  cookery — lemon  juice, 
vinegar,  fruit  juices,  or  the  acid  salt  cream  of  tartar — all  cause  sucrose  to 
combine  with  water  forming  dextrose  and  levulose.  Hydrolysis  takes  place 
more  rapidly  if  the  solution  is  heated.  In  making  fondant  with  cream  of 
tartar,  if  the  sirup  is  boiled  slowly  for  a  long  time,  more  inversion  may 
take  place  than  when  the  sirup  is  boiled  quickly  with  a  larger  amount  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Compare  the  length  of  time  required  to  bring  about 
crystallization  in  Experiments  7C,  1,  and  7C,  2.  Hydrolysis  of  fondant 
containing  cream  of  tartar  occurs  during  storage  though  the  rate  is  slow 
at  the  storage  temperature.  Fondant  made  with  cream  of  tartar  and  stored 
in  a  fairly  tight  container  becomes  softer  than  fondant  of  the  same  con- 
sistency before  storage,  but  without  the  addition  of  cream  of  tartar.  The 
amount  of  the  acid  salt  to  bring  about  this  softening  at  room  tempera- 
ture imparts  a  slightly  sour  taste  to  the  fondant.  To  many  persons  this 
slight  acidity  improves  the  flavor.  In  fondant  made  with  a  larger  amount  of 
cream  of  tartar  (Experiment  7C,  4),  considerable  hydrolysis  may  occur 
with  short  storage. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  salts  found  in  hard  water  upon  the  decom- 
position of  dextrose  in  fondant,  some  fondants  were  made  with  10  per 
cent  of  dextrose  added  to  sucrose  and  distilled  water.  To  the  solution 
different  salts  similar  to  those  found  in  water  were  added,  the  fondants 
made  and  stored  in  a  heavy  glass  container,  with  a  tight-fitting  lid.  They 
were  kept  for  two  years.  Acid  calcium  phosphate  was  added  to  some  of  the 
fondant  to  compare  an  acid-reacting  salt  containing  calcium  with  the  other 
calcium  salts  used.  At  the  end  of  one  year  the  fondants  made  with  calcium 
acid  phosphate  were  plastic  and  kneadable,  whereas  those  made  with  mag- 
nesium sulfate,  calcium  sulfate,  and  other  salts,  as  well  as  the  control  with 
no  salt,  were  too  hard  and  dry  to  be  kneaded.  Here  slow  hydrolysis  from 
the  calcium  acid  phosphate  probably  occurred  over  a  long  period,  but  drying 
out  of  the  fondant  was  also  prevented,  which  was  due  to  the  hygroscopic 
property  of  the  levulose.  If  fondant  is  to  be  stored  for  some  time  before 
it  is  molded  the  fondant  made  with  an  acid  salt  remains  soft  and  plastic,  or 
Keeps  better  than  fondant  made  without  an  acid  or  acid  salt. 

Hydrolysis  of  sucrose  is  often  spoken  of  as  inversion  and  the  resulting 
sugar  as  invert  sugar.  The  reason  for  this  name  is  found  in  the  effect  of 
invert  sugar  upon  a  beam  of  light.  If  a  straight  beam  of  light  is  allowed 
to  pass  through  a  solution  of  sucrose  in  an  instrument  called  a  polariscope, 
the  beam  of  light  is  rotated  to  the  right  and  the  sucrose  is  called  dextro- 
rotary.  After  the  sucrose  is  hydrolyzed,  the  ray  of  light  is  rotated  to  the 
left  and  the  invert  sugar  is  levo-rotary.  Because  of  this  inversion  of  a  beam 
of  light,  hydrolyzed  sucrose  is  called  invert  sugar.  Dextrose  is  dextro- 
rotary  and  sucrose  is  levo-rotary.  It  is  due  to  the  fact  that  levulose  rotates 


EFFECT  OF  ALKALIES  UPON  SUGARS  37 

the  beam  of  light  further  to  the  left  than  dextrose  rotates  it  to  the  right 
that  the  rotation  of  invert  sugar  is  opposite  to  that  of  sucrose. 

Hydrolysis  o£  sugars  by  enzymes.  Enzymes  also  bring  about  hy- 
drolysis of  the  disaccharid  sugars.  Since  heat  destroys  enzymes  the  reaction 
must  occur  at  a  low  temperature.  The  enzyme  invertase  causes  hydrolysis 
of  sucrose  to  dextrose  and  levulose.  Maltose  is  prepared  from  corn  by  using 
an  enzyme. 

Hydrolysis  in  chocolate  creams.  Jordan  states  that  the  liquefied 
centers  of  chocolate  creams  and  other  confections  are  brought  about  by 
acids,  acid  salts,  or  enzymes.  The  substance  bringing  about  the  hydrolysis  is 
added  when  the  fondant  is  fairly  hard  and  the  softening  due  to  the  hydrol- 
ysis occurs  during  storage.  Paine  states  that  the  amount  of  the  acid  or  acid 
salt  required  to  bring  about  inversion  imparts  a  perceptible  acid  taste  to 
the  fondant.  Evaporation  of  liquid  from  the  fondant  must  be  prevented, 
or  the  fondant  loses  water  and  becomes  dry.  Then  some  moisture  is  neces- 
sary for  hydrolysis  to  occur.  The  enzyme,  invertase,  may  be  added  when 
the  fondant  is  beaten  or  when  it  is  molded  before  dipping.  The  proper 
amount  of  invertase  is  added  for  the  inversion  of  the  fondant,  and  accord- 
ing to  Paine  this  inversion  takes  place  more  readily  at  pH  4.4  to  4.6.  To 
give  this  acidity  citric  acid  is  added  in  small  quantities.  Invertase  may  be 
used  in  fondant  for  chocolate  creams,  in  confections  with  fruit  like  cherries 
and  pineapple,  and  in  bonbons.  The  fat  of  chocolate  prevents  the  confec- 
tions dipped  in  it  from  losing  moisture  by  evaporation.  The  bonbons  dry 
out  more  rapidly  than  the  chocolate-covered  candies.  Paine  states  that  the 
addition  of  a  small  amount  of  egg  albumen  or  egg  white  lessens  evaporation 
from  the  fondant. 

Hydrolysis  of  starch.  Starch,  like  sucrose,  is  very  readily  hydrolyzed 
by  acids,  and  the  reaction  takes  place  more  rapidly  at  a  high  temperature. 
When  starch  is  used  with  acid  fruit  juices,  a  larger  proportion  of  starch  is 
required  to  thicken  the  mixture  to  a  definite  consistency  than  is  needed  for 
an  equal  quantity  of  water  or  milk.  Fillings  for  lemon  or  cherry  pie,  because 
of  the  hydrolysis  by  acid  during  cooking,  need  a  larger  proportion  of  starch 
for  thickening  than  fillings  like  chocolate  cream. 

Effect  of  Alkalies  Upon  Sugars 

Strong  alkalies,  like  strong  acids,  decompose  the  sugars.  Weak  alkalies 
or  salts  with  alkaline  reaction,  like  sodium  bicarbonate,  common  baking 
soda,  also  act  upon  the  sugars.  Even  alkaline  salts  found  in  hard  water 
may  produce  considerable  decomposition  in  some  of  the  sugars.  Of  the 
disaccharids  those  most  easily  affected  by  acids  are  least  readily  decomposed 
by  alkali,  and  vice  versa.  Sucrose  is  scarcely  acted  upon  by  a  weak  alkali, 
but  maltose  and  lactose  are  affected  more  readily. 

The  monosaccharids  are  easily  decomposed  by  alkalies,  even  very  weak 
ones.  If  the  sugar  is  allowed  to  stand  in  a  solution  with  a  weak  alkali 


38  SUGAR  COOKERY 

many  substances  may  be  formed.  Decomposition  is  brought  about  so  rapidly 
with  strong  alkalies  that  not  so  many  products  are  formed  with  it.  Nef 
states  that,  of  the  116  possible  decomposition  products  with  dextrose  and 
a  weak  alkali,  93  have  been  isolated.  Very  weak  alkalies  may  cause  re- 
arrangement of  the  molecule.  In  the  manufacture  of  dextrose  great  care 
must  be  taken  to  keep  the  reaction  acid  to  prevent  an  off  color  and  taste. 
The  action  of  an  alkali  upon  dextrose  produces  first  a  yellow  tinge  which 
becomes  deeper  and  finally  brown  if  carried  far  enough.  This  decomposi- 
tion is  called  caramelization.  With  very  slight  caramelization  of  dextrose 
the  flavor  may  not  be  very  noticeable,  but  it  may  become  strong  and  bitter, 
and  characterized  by  a  strong,  pungent,  acrid  after-taste.  In  sections  of  the 
country  where  the  water  is  very  hard,  enough  decomposition  to  affect  the 
flavor  may  be  brought  about  in  ordinary  cooking.  This  is  more  noticeable 
when  the  sugar  is  cooked  slowly.  The  addition  of  a  little  lemon  juice, 
vinegar,  or  the  acid  salt,  cream  of  tartar,  will  prevent  the  discoloration  and 
the  change  in  flavor.  In  some  instances  this  browning  or  caramelization  is 
an  advantage.  For  example,  baked  beans  brown  better  when  dextrose  is 
added  than  when  sucrose  is  used. 

Levulose,  like  dextrose,  is  unstable  in  an  alkaline  solution,  decomposing 
as  readily  or  more  so  than  dextrose  and  giving  many  decomposition  prod- 
ucts. But  in  cookery  its  decomposition  by  alkalies  can  be  prevented  in  the 
same  way  as  that  of  dextrose.  Candy  made  from  honey  often  has  a  strong 
flavor  that  may  be  rather  disagreeable,  owing  to  decomposition  of  the 
dextrose  and  levulose  during  cooking.  If  just  enough  acid  is  added  to  com- 
bine with  the  alkali  present,  the  characteristic  flavor  of  honey  is  retained. 

Moisture-Absorbing  Power  of  the  Sugars 

All  sugars  should  be  stored  in  a  dry  place  for  they  deteriorate  if  stored 
where  it  is  damp.  This  power  of  absorbing  moisture  can  be  made  use  of 
to  improve  some  foods,  but  it  is  a  detriment  in  others. 

Browne  reports  that  the  sugars  having  the  highest  absorptive  power  from 
a  saturated  atmosphere  are  the  levulose-containing  substances :  invert  sugar, 
honey,  levulose,  and  molasses.  He  finds  that  the  percentage  of  water  ab- 
sorbed has  no  relation  to  the  percentage  of  levulose  present.  This  would 
suggest  that  cakes  made  with  levulose-containing  products  would  not  dry 
out  so  rapidly  as  cakes  made  with  sucrose.  In  practise,  this  is  found  to  be 
true.  Cakes  made  with  part  levulose  or  levulose-containing  substances  do  not 
dry  out  so  rapidly  as  those  made  with  sucrose. 

Honey  and  molasses  are  used  in  many  family  recipes  for  cookies,  par- 
ticularly the  kinds  made  for  holidays,  for  they  can  be  made  a  long  time  in 
advance  of  their  intended  use  and  they  remain  moist  with  storage — in  many 
instances  the  moisture  content  seems  to  increase  during  storage. 

Invert  sugar  either  added  to  food  or  formed  by  inversion  during  cooking 
is  found  in  many  food  products.  In  the  bakery  trade  it  is  used  to  prevent 


SOLUTIONS  39 

drying  and  checking.  The  acid  in  fruits  inverts  sucrose.  The  amount  of 
total  sugar  that  can  be  held  in  solution  in  a  given  quantity  of  liquid  is 
greater  if  it  contains  a  mixture  of  sucrose,  levulose,  and  dextrose.  Rich 
preserves  made  of  fruit  containing  little  acid  do  not  crystallize  so  readily 
during  storage  if  lemon  juice  is  added  when  they  are  being  made.  The 
lemon  juice  brings  about  more  inversion  than  the  less  acid  fruit  juice.  The 
invert  sugar  does  not  crystallize  so  readily  as  the  sucrose,  the  total  quantity 
of  sugar  held  in  solution  is  greater,  and  there  is  less  evaporation. 

The  levulose-containing  substances  should  be  avoided  for  hard  candies. 
Duryea  states  that  maltose  is  better  to  use  in  hard  candies  than  dextrose, 
because  the  candies  remain  drier.  He  also  adds  that  another  advantage 
of  using  maltose  in  hard  candy  is  that  maltose  is  not  so  readily  affected 
by  alkali.  The  decomposition  caused  by  use  of  dextrose  and  alkaline  w^ater 
is  avoided. 

The  Melting  Point  of  the  Sugars  and  the  Effect  of  Heat 

When  sugars  are  heated  without  the  addition  of  water  a  point  is  reached 
at  which  they  change  from  a  crystalline  to  a  liquid  state.  This  is  called 
the  melting  point. 

Mackenzie  states  that  the  melting  point  of  sucrose  is  160°  to  161  °C. 
Impure  solutions  of  sucrose  will  give  variable  melting  points.  After  sugar 
is  melted  and  cooled  slowly  it  forms  the  hard  amorphous  sugar  sometime? 
called  ''barley  sugar."  The  amorphous  form  of  sugar  like  the  amorphous 
sulfur  slowly  reverts  to  the  crystalline  form.  If  sucrose  is  heated  above  the 
melting  point  brownish-colored  substances  called  caramel  are  formed.  In 
the  presence  of  moisture,  caramelization  may  begin  at  temperatures  below 
100°C.  Caramel  is  composed  of  a  number  of  substances,  decomposition 
products  of  sucrose  with  loss  of  water. 

Maltose  melts  at  about  100°C.  Having  a  lower  melting  point  than 
sucrose  it  decomposes  more  easily  by  heat. 

Dextrose  crystallizes  as  the  hydrate,  CCH12O6.H2O,  that  is,  one  mole- 
cule of  water  is  combined  with  the  molecule  of  dextrose.  When  heated 
slowly  it  loses  this  water  of  crystallization  between  50°  and  60°C.  Perkin 
and  Kipping  state  that  the  melting  point  of  the  hydrate  is  86°,  and  that  of 
the  anhydrous  form  is  146°C. 

The  melting  point  of  levulose  is  95 °C. 

Solutions 

Sugar  and  other  substances  are  used  constantly  in  cookery  processes. 
Therefore,  it  is  desirable  to  know  something  about  the  properties  of  solu- 
tions. 

A  solution  is  composed  of  two  parts:  one,  the  solute,  is  the  dissolved 
substance;  and  the  other,  the  solvent,  is  the  substance  in  which  the  solute 


40  SUGAR  COOKERY 

is  dissolved.  A  solution  is  a  homogeneous  mixture.  This  means  that  it  is 
uniformly  mixed  or  alike  in  all  parts. 

A  solution  may  be  a  gas  dissolved  in  a  solid,  a  gas  in  metal;  a  gas  in  a 
liquid,  air  in  water;  a  liquid  in  a  liquid,  alcohol  in  water;  or  a  solid  in 
a  liquid,  sugar  in  water.  It  is  to  the  class  of  solids  in  liquids  that  many 
of  our  solutions  in  cookery  belong. 

Solubility  of  Substances  in  Solution 

Solubility  means  the  amount  of  a  specific  substance  that  will  dissolve 
in  a  given  volume  of  a  specified  solvent.  If  the  solvent  is  not  mentioned 
it  is  understood  to  be  water.  Solubility  is  generally  expressed  as  the  number 
of  grams  of  solute  that  will  dissolve  in  100  cc.  of  solvent,  and  as  the  tem- 
perature affects  solubility  it  is  usually  mentioned.  If  the  temperature  is  not 
stated  it  is  understood  to  be  room  temperature  or  20°  to  22°C. 

Factors  determining  the  solubility.  Temperature,  the  fineness  of 
division  and  the  nature  of  the  solute,  and  the  nature  of  the  solvent  deter- 
mine the  solubility  to  a  great  extent.  Some  substances  are  highly,  others 
only  slightly,  soluble  in  water,  and  still  others  are  highly  insoluble  in  this 
solvent.  Some  substances  will  dissolve  best  in  alcohol,  or  chloroform,  or 
ether,  or  benzine.  Some  liquids,  like  alcohol  and  water,  will  dissolve  in  all 
proportions,  but  there  is  a  limit  to  the  solubility  of  all  substances  of  a 
crystalline  form. 

Fineness  of  division  of  the  solute.  A  larger  amount  of  the  crystal- 
line solute  is  soluble  if  it  is  very  finely  divided  or  powdered  than  if  left 
in  large  crystals.  This  does  not  refer  to  the  ease  or  quickness  of  solution 
but  to  the  total  number  of  grams  dissolved  in  100  cc.  of  the  solvent.  This 
increase  in  solubility  is  due  to  the  increased  surface  energy  of  the  smaller 
particles  in  the  solvent.  The  diameter  of  the  particles  must  be  less  than  1/x 
to  increase  the  solubility  to  any  great  extent. 

Temperature.  The  solubility  of  most  crystalline  substances  in  w^ater 
is  increased  by  heating,  though  some  are  little  affected  by  temperature 
change,  and  a  few  are  less  soluble  in  hot  water  than  in  cold.  Sodium 
chloride,  common  salt,  is  an  example  of  a  substance  that  is  little  affected 
by  temperature  change.  At  0°C.  about  35.6  grams  will  dissolve  in  100  cc. 
of  water,  and  about  39  grams  at  100°.  Calcium  hydroxide  is  only  half  as 
soluble  at  100°  as  at  20°.  The  solubility  of  the  sugars  is  increased  by 
elevation  of  temperature.  At  0°C.,  179  grams  of  sucrose  will  dissolve;  at 
100°C.  487  grams  will  dissolve. 

Addition  of  other  substances.  Two  forms  of  the  same  compound 
may  give  different  solubilities.  Thus  anhydrous  lactose  (without  water  of 
crystallization)  has  one  solubility  and  the  hydrated  form  has  another.  Some- 
times the  addition  of  another  substance,  organic  or  inorganic,  to  the  solu- 
tion will  increase  or  decrease  the  solubility  of  the  solute.  If,  after  all  the 
sucrose  possible  is  dissolved,  some  potassium  acetate,  sodium  chloride,  or 


SUCROSE  41 

many  other  salts,  is  added  to  the  solution,  more  sucrose  can  be  dissolved. 
This  may  a£Fect  the  solubility  of  sugar  in  candy  making,  for  it  is  known 
that  different  waters,  with  different  proportions  and  kinds  of  minerals,  do 
not  always  give  identical  results,  with  the  same  sugar,  for  the  same  kind 
of  candy. 

Saturated  solutions.  Once  all  the  solute  is  dissolved  that  can  possi- 
bly be  held  by  a  definite  amount  of  solvent  at  a  constant  temperature,  any 
excess  of  the  solute  remains  unchanged.  The  saturated  solution  is  one  that 
contains  all  the  dissolved  solute  that  it  can  take  up  when  in  contact  with 
undissolved  solute.  In  other  words,  it  is  a  solution  which  when  placed 
with  excess  of  the  solute  at  a  definite  temperature  is  in  equilibrium,  i.e., 
there  is  neither  increase  nor  decrease  in  concentration  of  the  solute. 

Supersaturated  solutions.  One  should  not  define  a  saturated  solution 
as  one  containing  all  the  solute  it  can  hold,  for  a  supersaturated  solution 
holds  more  than  a  saturated  one.  If  water  is  heated  to  70°C.  and  all  the 
sucrose  added  that  can  be  dissolved  by  the  water  at  this  temperature,  one 
has  a  saturated  solution.  There  should  be  no  excess  of  the  solid  left  with 
the  liquid.  If  this  solution  is  carefully  cooled  to  40°C.  without  stirring 
more  sucrose  will  .be  in  solution  than  could  have  been  if  the  water  had  not 
been  heated  above  40°.  The  cooling  of  a  saturated  solution  leads  to  the 
formation  of  crystals,  and  any  excess  beyond  saturation  is  gradually  pre- 
cipitated as  the  temperature  drops,  though  crystallization  may  not  begin 
immediately.  But  some  substances,  like  the  sugars,  require  longer  than 
others  for  crystallization  to  commence,  unless  the  solution  is  stirred  or 
agitated. 

The  Solubility  of  the  Sugars 

The  solubility  of  the  sugars  determines  their  use  to  a  certain  extent.  It 
is  obvious  to  one  who  does  a  great  deal  of  cooking  that  a  sugar  that  requires 
6  pounds  of  water  to  dissolve  1  pound  of  sugar,  could  not  be  used  for  con- 
centrated sugar  products  like  jellies,  jams,  frostings,  or  even  cakes. 

Sucrose.  Sucrose  has  the  greatest  solubility  of  the  disaccharid  sugars. 
Browne  in  his  "Handbook  of  Sugar  Analysis"  states  that,  at  20°C.,  204 
grams  are  soluble  in  100  cc.  of  water.  Thus  at  room  temperature  about 
2  grams  of  sucrose  are  soluble  in  1  cc.  of  water.  At  100°C.  487  grams  of 
sucrose  are  soluble  in  100  cc.  of  water.  For  solubilities  at  other  tempera- 
tures see  Table  5. 

In  Table  5  the  solubility  of  sucrose  is  expressed  in  two  ways.  In  column 
2  is  given  the  amount  of  sucrose  dissolved  in  water  to  make  100  grams 
of  solution.  Thus  at  0°C.,  64.18  grams  of  sucrose  are  dissolved  in  35.82 
grams  of  water  to  give  a  total  of  100  grams  of  solution.  The  third  column 
states  the  number  of  grams  of  sucrose  dissolved  in  100  grams  of  water  at  a 
definite  temperature. 


42 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


TABLE  5 
Solubility  of  Sucrose  in  Water  at  Different  Temperatures 

{From  Browne's  '^Handbook  of  Sugar  Analysis^') 


Temperature, 

Grams  of  sucrose 
in  100  grams  of 

Grams  of  sucrose 
dissolved  by  100 
grams  of  water 

Specific  gravity 

degrees  C. 

solution,  or 
per  cent 

of  solution 

0 

64.18 

179.2 

1.31490 

5 

64.87 

184.7 

1.31920 

10 

65.58 

190.5 

1.32353 

15 

66.30 

197.0 

1.32804 

20 

67.09 

203.9 

1.33272 

25 

67.89 

211.4 

1.33768 

30 

68.70 

219.5 

1.34273 

35 

69.55 

228.4 

1.34805 

40 

70.42 

238.1 

1.35353 

45 

71.32 

248.7 

1.35923 

50 

72.25 

260.4 

1.36515 

55 

73.20 

273.1 

1.37124 

60 

74.18 

287.3 

1.37755 

65 

75.18 

302.9 

1.38404 

70 

76.22 

320.5 

1.39083 

75 

77.27 

339.9 

1.39772 

80 

78.36 

362.1 

1.40493 

85 

79.46 

386.8 

1.41225 

90 

80.61 

415.7 

1.41996 

95 

81.77 

448.6 

1.42778 

100 

82.87 

487.2 

1.43594 

Percentage  o£  Sucrose  in  Saturated  Solutions.  From  Table  5 
the  percentage  of  sugar  may  be  obtained.  At  0°C.,  64.18  grams  of  sugar  and 
35.82  grams  of  water  give  100  grams  of  solution,  so  that  the  number  of 
grams  of  sugar  may  be  read  as  percentage  of  sucrose  or  64.18  per  cent. 

Maltose.  Maltose  is  not  a  common  sugar  on  the  market.  When  used 
to  make  jelly,  it  crystallizes  from  the  jelly,  like  dextrose.  Gillis  has  re- 
ported the  following  solubility. 

Lactose.  The  use  of  lactose  in  the  home  is  limited  because  it  is  not  very 
soluble  and  lacks  sweetness.  According  to  Greenleaf,  if  lactose  is  crystal- 
lized below  93.5°C.  the  alpha  hydrate  form  is  obtained.  Above  93.5°C.  the 
beta  lactose  is  formed.  Beta  lactose  is  about  one-fourth  sweeter  than 
alpha  hydrate  and  dissolves  more  rapidly,  hence  does  not  leave  a  sandy 
sensation  in  the  mouth.  Hudson  states  that  at  the  final  solubility  of  lactose 
there  are  1^  parts  of  the  anhydrous  to  1  of  the  hydrate.  Hunziker  and 


LACTOSE 


43 


TABLE  6 
Solubility  of  Maltose  in  Water  (Gillis) 


Grams  of  maltose  in  100 

Temperature, 
degrees  C. 

grams  of  solution,  or 
per  cent 

Grams  of  maltose  dissolved 
by  100  grams  of  water 

0.6 

36.1 

56.5 

21.0 

44.1 

78.9 

29.6 

48.0 

93.2 

34.4 

49.6 

98.4 

43.5 

55.3 

123.9 

49.4 

58.3 

139.8 

54.2 

60.2 

151.4 

59.8 

63.7 

175.2 

66.3 

66.7 

200.0 

74.2 

72.3 

261.5 

87.0 

79.3 

383.8 

96.5 

85.1 

569.3 

Nissen  state  that  its  solution  is  complete  after  shaking  it  170  hours  at 
constant  temperature.  Herrington  found  that  the  addition  of  calcium 
chloride  to  a  lactose  solution  increased  the  solubility  of  lactose  from  28.6 
to  29.5  grams  per  100  grams  of  water  at  32°C.  An  analysis  of  the  pre- 
cipitate showed  the  crystals  to  be  a  compourd  of  lactose  with  calcium 
chloride.  The  following  table  of  solubility  of  lactose  is  from  Hudson. 

TABLE  7 

Solubility  of  Lactose  in  Water  {Hudson) 


Final  Solubility 

Temperature, 
degrees  C. 

Grams  of  lactose  per  100 

grams  of  solution,  or 

per  cent 

Grams  of  lactose  dissolved 
by  100  grams  of  water 

0 

15 

25 
39 
49 
64 
74 
89 

10.6 
14.5 
17.8 
24.0 
29.8 
39.7 
46.3 
58.2 

11.9 
16.9 
21.6 
31.5 
42.4 
65.8 
86.2 
139.2 

44 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


Dextrose.  Dextrose  and  levulose  are  the  only  monosaccharid  sugars 
used  in  cookery  to  any  extent.  Dextrose  has  in  recent  years  been  put  on  the 
market  in  crystalline  form  under  the  trade  name  of  "Cerelose."  Combs  and 
Bele  give  the  solubility  of  "Cerelose"  as  shown  in  Table  8. 

TABLE  8 
Solubility  of  "Cerelose"  in  Watek  {Combs  and  Bele) 


Temperature, 
degrees  C. 

Grams  of ''Cerelose"  per 

100  grams  of  solution,  or 

per  cent 

Grams  of  "Cerelose"  dis- 
solved by  100  grams  of 
water 

20 

63 

49.7 

73.7 

83.1 
281.1 

Thus  at  room  temperature  about  1  part  of  "Cerelose"  is  soluble  in  1 
part  of  water.  "Cerelose"  is  less  soluble  than  sucrose  and  goes  into  solution 
at  a  slower  rate. 

The  solubility  of  dextrose  limits  its  use  in  cookery  to  a  certain  extent. 
Jellies  average  about  60  to  70  parts  of  sugar  by  weight  and  30  to  40 
parts  of  liquid  or  juice.  Dextrose  at  room  temperature  is  soluble  in  water 
to  the  extent  of  1  part  of  dextrose  to  1  part  of  water.  Since  the  finished 
jellies  average  over  50  per  cent  of  sugar,  when  dextrose  alone  is  used 
in  jelly  it  soon  begins  to  crystallize  after  the  jelly  is  cooled.  If  the  jelly  is 
not  covered  it  crystallizes  very  rapidly. 

Levulose.  Levulose  is  very  soluble.  It  has  a  greater  solubility  than 
sucrose.  Since  it  is  very  soluble  it  must  be  present  in  very  large  quantities 
before  it  crystallizes  and  is  therefore  very  hard  to  crystallize.  The  data  in 
the  table  for  the  solubility  of  levulose  are  obtained  from  the  results  of 
Jackson,  Silsbee  and  Proffitt.  The  data  in  the  third  column  are  computed 
from  the  grams  of  levulose  soluble  in  100  grams  of  solution. 

Properties  of  Solutions 


A  solute  dissolved  in  a  solvent  affects  the  properties  of  the  solvent  or  in 
other  words  alters  certain  of  its  constant  characteristics.  No  discussion  of 
osmotic  pressure  is  given ;  the  effect  on  the  freezing  point  is  discussed  in 
the  chapter  on  freezing.  These  characteristics  may  be  listed  as  follows: 

a.  The  vapor  tension  is  lowered. 

b.  The  boiling  point  is  elevated. 

c.  The  freezing  point  is  lowered. 

d.  The  osmotic  pressure  is  increased. 


EFFECT  OF  THE  SOLUTE  ON  VAPOR  TENSION       45 


Vapor  tension.  Vapor  tension  may  be  defined  as  the  vapor  or  gaseous 
pressure  of  a  liquid.  The  vapor  tension  of  a  liquid  depends  upon  the  amount 
of  vapor  formed.  Some  liquids,  like  alcohol,  evaporate  rapidly  and  have  a 
high  vapor  tension.  Others,  like  water,  evaporate  more  slowly.  This  gaseous 
pressure  soon  reaches  a  maximum  at  any  given  temperature.  The  maximum 
pressure  at  a  definite  temperature  represents  the  vapor  tension  of  the  liquid. 

TABLE  9 
Solubility  of  Levulose  {Jackson,  Silsbee  and  Proffitt) 


Temperature, 
degrees  C. 

Grams  of  levulose  in  100 

grams  of  solution,  or 

per  cent 

Grams  of  levulose  dissolved 
by  100  grams  of  water 

20 

78.94 

374.8 

25 

80.29 

407.3 

30 

81.64 

444.6 

35 

82.98 

487.5 

40 

84.34 

538.5 

45 

85.64 

596.3 

50 

86.90 

663.3- 

55 

88.10 

740.3 

Effect  of  the  solute  on  vapor  tension.  When  a  substance  is  dis- 
solved in  a  liquid  the  vapor  tension  of  the  solvent  is  lowered,  i.e.,  there  is 
less  tendency  to  pass  into  the  vapor  state,  hence  the  gaseous  pressure  is 
decreased. 

If  water  is  the  solvent,  there  is  a  tendency  with  a  high  concentration  of 
some  substances  for  vapor  from  the  air  to  enter  the  solution,  thus  increas- 
ing the  quantity  of  the  solvent.  This  is  particularly  true  of  sugar  solutions, 
when  the  humidity  of  the  air  is  high  and  the  solutions  are  concentrated. 
On  damp,  rainy  days,  fondant  and  similar  candies  have  to  be  beaten  for 
a  longer  time  to  crystallize,  unless  they  are  cooked  to  a  little  higher  tem- 
perature so  as  to  obtain  a  greater  concentration. 

The  fact  that  it  is  harder  for  the  vapor  to  leave  the  surface  of  the  liquid 
when  there  is  a  soluble  substance  in  it  is  made  use  of  in  the  following  or 
similar  ways  to  keep  food  moist.  A  covered  vessel  containing  food  loses 
moisture  from  the  food  until  the  air  space  is  saturated  with  vapor.  If  the 
vessel  is  tight  enough,  the  food  does  not  dry  out  to  an  appreciable  extent. 
If  two  dishes  are  placed  in  an  enclosed  vessel,  one  of  them  containing 
water  and  the  other  a  heavy  sugar  solution,  the  sugar  solution,  since  it 
loses  vapor  with  difficulty  and  absorbs  liquid,  will  gradually  absorb  water 
from  the  other  dish.  If  two  foods  are  placed  in  the  same  container,  the 
one  with  more  sugar  will  gradually  absorb  moisture  from  the  other.  This 
is  why  an  apple  is  often  put  in  a  box  with  a  fruit  cake,  the  apple  drying 


46  SUGAR  COOKERY 

up  and  keeping  the  cake  moist.  Cake  and  bread  should  not  be  stored  to- 
gether, as  the  bread  will  become  dry  quickly. 

The  Boiling  Point  of  Water  and  Solutions 

Water  standing  in  an  open  vessel  gradually  evaporates,  so  that  eventually 
all  the  water  disappears  in  the  form  of  vapor.  We  know  that  evaporation 
takes  place  more  rapidly  on  warm  days  than  on  cool  ones,  and  more  rapidly 
from  a  wide  shallow  vessel  than  from  a  narrow  deep  one.  As  the  tempera- 
ture is  increased,  the  rapidity  of  the  motion  of  the  molecules  is  increased. 
Therefore  a  larger  number  escape  from  the  liquid  as  the  temperature 
increases,  most  of  them  being  carried  away  by  air  currents. 

Saturated  vapor.  If  we  cover  a  vessel  of  water,  leaving  an  air  space 
between  the  surface  of  the  liquid  and  the  cover,  evaporation  takes  place 
for  a  time  just  as  from  an  uncovered  vessel.  But  when  the  vapor  cannot  be 
carried  away,  the  air  above  the  liquid  soon  becomes  filled  with  vapor  mole- 
cules. Of  course  some  of  them  reenter  the  liquid.  When  they  are  entering 
the  surface  of  the  liquid  as  rapidly  as  they  are  leaving  it,  the  air  is  said  to  be 
saturated  and  is  in  equilibrium  with  the  liquid,  i.e.,  the  saturation  point 
is  reached  when  the  air  holds  all  the  vapor  possible  at  that  temperature. 
If  the  temperature  is  increased  the  velocity  of  the  molecules  is  increased, 
and  they  leave  the  surface  of  the  liquid  faster  than  they  enter  until  equi- 
librium is  again  established.  If  the  temperature  is  reduced,  a  part  of  the 
vapor  condenses  into  the  liquid  and  forms  drops  of  liquid  on  the  sides  and 
cover  of  the  vessel  or  on  the  surface  of  the  liquid. 

The  boiling  point.  When  water  is  heated  slowly  enough,  air  bubbles 
are  noticed  forming  on  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan.  They  come  from 
the  air  that  has  been  held  in  solution  by  the  water.  A  similar  thing  may 
be  noticed  on  a  warm  day  when  a  glass  or  pitcher  of  cool  water  is  left  in 
a  warm  room.  The  air  bubbles  collect  on  the  sides  of  the  glass  or  pitcher, 
and  if  the  vessel  is  jarred  many  of  them  will  rise  to  the  top  of  the  water 
and  break.  If  heating  of  the  water  is  continued  the  vapor  begins  to  form. 
Many  of  the  first  vapor  bubbles  collapse  before  they  reach  the  surface. 

Since  the  heat  is  applied  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan  the  vapor  forms  at 
the  bottom  of  the  liquid.  With  the  increased  speed  of  the  molecules,  due 
to  the  increased  temperature,  greater  pressure  is  obtained,  so  that  the 
formation  of  vapor  is  more  rapid  until  a  point  is  reached  at  which  the 
rate  of  loss  of  heat  from  the  water  in  the  escaping  vapor  is  equal  to  the 
heat  received  by  the  liquid.  If  the  rate  at  which  the  heat  is  applied  is  con- 
stant, the  bubbles  are  uniform  in  size.  If  a  thermometer  is  held  in  the  liquid 
it  is  found  that  when  this  point  is  reached  the  temperature  is  constant. 
This  is  the  boiling  point.  A  child  might  say  that  when  a  liquid  is  bubbling 
it  is  boiling,  and  it  would  be  a  fairly  good  definition.  However,  the  chemist 
or  physicist  would  word  his  definition  differently.  With  vapor  formation, 
pressure  is  exerted.  Since  the  bubble  is  less  dense  than  the  liquid  it  comes 


ELEVATION  OF  THE  BOILING  POINT  47 

to  the  surface.  But  the  bubble  cannot  reach  the  surface  until  the  pressure 
within  it  is  just  a  little  greater  than  the  pressure  of  the  liquid  on  the 
bubble.  The  pressure  on  the  bubble  in  an  open  pan  comes  from  the  weight 
of  the  column  of  liquid  above  it  and  the  atmospheric  pressure  on  the 
surface  of  the  liquid.  Another  way  to  define  the  boiling  point  is  to  say  that 
it  is  the  temperature  at  which  the  pressure  of  the  saturated  vapor  within 
the  liquid  is  just  greater  than  the  outside  pressure  on  the  surface  of  the 
liquid. 

If  you  live  at  sea  level  the  boiling  point  of  water  is  100°C.  The  Bureau 
of  Standards  defines  the  boiling  point  of  water  as  the  point  at  which 
ebullition  is  violent.  Slow-bubbling  water  does  not  register  quite  as  high 
a  temperature  as  rapidly  bubbling  water,  but  in  cooking  food  in  water 
there  is  no  great  advantage  in  having  the  water  boiling  violently.  The  food 
will  cook  nearly  as  rapidly  in  the  slower  bubbling  water.  With  gas  or 
electricity  it  is  an  economy  of  fuel  to  lower  the  heat  when  the  water  begins 
to  boil,  unless  it  is  desirable  to  evaporate  the  liquid  quickly. 

The  conversion  of  water  from  a  liquid  to  a  gaseous  state  requires  a 
certain  amount  of  energy.  This  energy  is  expressed  in  terms  of  heat.  To 
change  a  gram  of  water  at  100°C.  to  vapor  at  100°  requires  about  540 
calories  of  heat.  If  the  heat  applied  to  boiling  water  is  increased,  the 
quantity  of  water  changed  to  vapor  in  a  given  time  is  increased.  The  vapor 
escapes  from  the  surface  of  the  liquid,  but  in  a  pan  the  free  surface  is 
limited.  However,  in  boiling  water  it  escapes  from  the  free  surface  and 
from  the  surface  of  the  bubbles.  The  temperature  of  the  water  cannot  be 
increased  because  the  heat  lost  by  evaporation  is  equal  to  the  heat  received. 
If  the  heat  is  increased,  the  heat  lost  by  evaporation  is  increased  and  the 
surface  of  the  bubbles  is  increased  enormously  beyond  the  free  surface  of 
the  liquid  to  aid  evaporation. 

Lowering  the  boiling  point.  The  boiling  point  of  a  liquid  may  be 
lowered  by  reducing  the  pressure  on  the  liquid.  This  may  be  done  by 
boiling  the  liquid  in  a  partial  vacuum.  The  boiling  point  is  also  lowered 
with  increased  elevation  above  sea  level.  The  atmospheric  pressure  is  not 
so  great  at  high  altitudes  because  of  the  lessened  column  or  depth  of  air. 
For  each  960  feet  above  sea  level  the  boiling  point  is  decreased  1°C. 

Elevation  of  the  boiling  point.  The  boiling  point  of  a  liquid  can 
be  elevated  by  increasing  the  pressure  upon  it.  This  may  be  done  by  pre- 
venting the  vapor  above  the  liquid  from  escaping.  If  a  soluble  substance 
is  added  to  a  liquid  the  resulting  solution  has  a  higher  boiling  point  than 
the  pure  liquid. 

The  pressure  of  a  gas  increases  as  the  temperature  increases.  When 
vapor  is  confined,  as  in  a  pressure  cooker,  the  boiling  point  of  a  liquid 
in  the  cooker  is  elevated.  As  the  temperature  is  increased,  the  pressure 
of  the  confined  vapor  on  the  surface  of  the  liquid  is  increased.  Therefore 
a  higher  temperature  is  required  to  form  great  enough  pressure  in  the 
vapor  bubbles  within  the  liquid  for  them  to  reach  the  surface  of  the  liquid. 


48  SUGAR  COOKERY 

Thus  the  boiling  point  is  elevated.  The  higher  the  temperature  of  the 
confined  vapor  the  greater  the  pressure  on  the  liquid.  The  greater  the 
pressure  on  the  liquid  the  higher  the  boiling  point. 

The  boiling  point  o£  solutions.  Each  gram-molecular  weight  (mole) 
of  a  non-ionized  substance  in  a  liter  of  water  elevates  the  boiling  point 
0.52°C.  A  gram-molecular  weight  of  a  substance  is  its  atomic  or  com- 
bined atomic  weights.  For  example,  sucrose  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydro- 
gen, and  oxygen  with  the  formula  C12H22O11.  The  atomic  weight  of 
carbon  is  12;  that  of  hydrogen  is  1;  of  oxygen,  16.  Thus  12  carbons,  22 
hydrogens,  and  1 1  oxygens  give  a  molecular  weight  of  342  grams.  The 
boiling  point  of  a  liter  of  water  containing  342  grams  of  sucrose  is  elevated 
0.52°C.  Two  moles  of  sucrose  would  elevate  the  boiling  point  1.04°C. 
The  boiling  point  can  be  elevated  as  long  as  the  substance  added  is  soluble. 
When  the  solution  becomes  saturated,  or  the  point  is  reached  at  which  no 
more  can  be  dissolved,  the  boiling  point  is  constant  for  substances  that 
behave  normally  in  solution.  If  boiling  is  continued  so  that  the  solvent 
is  vaporized,  the  excess  solute  beyond  saturation  is  crystallized.  This  is 
illustrated  in  Experiment  3  in  the  laboratory  outline. 

Effect  of  ionized  substances  on  the  boiling  point.  Some  sub- 
stances when  dissolved  in  water  are  ionized.  In  a  solution  of  sodium 
chloride,  for  example,  not  only  sodium  chloride  molecules  are  found  but 
also  sodium  ions  and  chlorine  ions. 

NaCl     :^^ ^     Na+H-Cl- 

The  atomic  weight  of  sodium  is  23  and  that  of  chlorine  is  35.  If  58 
grams  of  sodium  chloride  (a  mole)  are  added  to  a  liter  of  water,  and 
the  sodium  chloride  is  completely  ionized,  the  boiling  point  will  be  elevated 
1.04°C.  The  mole  of  sodium  will  elevate  it  0.52°  and  the  mole  of  chlorine 
will  elevate  it  0.52°.  Sometimes  a  substance  that  ionizes  in  solution  is  not 
completely  ionized.  When  this  happens,  the  boiling  point  is  elevated  accord- 
ing to  the  degree  of  ionization. 

At  high  altitudes  it  is  possible  to  cook  foods  more  rapidly  by  adding  salt 
to  the  cooking  water.  To  be  very  effective  this  requires  such  a  large  quan- 
tity of  salt  that  the  food  becomes  too  salty.  It  may  be  used  for  potatoes 
that  are  not  peeled. 

Sugar  solutions  behave  abnormally  in  regard  to  the  boiling  point.  In 
Experiment  4  it  is  found  that  the  sugar  solutions  do  not  behave  like  the 
salt  solution.  They  do  not  reach  a  constant  boiling  point.  A  mole  of  sucrose 
(342  grams)  measures  about  1^  cups.  It  can  be  readily  seen  by  consulting 
the  solubility  table  of  sucrose  that  its  solubility  will  account  for  only  a 
partial  elevation  of  the  boiling  point.  The  boiling  point  of  the  sugar  solu- 
tion increases  with  its  concentration  until  the  melting  point  of  the  sugar 
is  reached.  Occasionally,  in  cooking  a  sucrose  solution  (Experiment  4A), 
some  of  the  sucrose  crystallizes  on  the  edge  of  the  pan,  thermometer,  and 
top  of  the  sirup,  similar  to  the  salt  solution,  but  this  is  not  the  usual  result. 


CRYSTALLIZATION 


49 


When  the  melting  point  of  the  sucrose  is  reached  these  crystals  melt. 
Temperatures  far  above  the  melting  point  of  the  sugars  can  be  obtained. 
However,  with  the  very  high  temperatures,  caramelization  or  decomposi- 
tion of  the  sucrose  occurs  quite  rapidly. 

There  is  no  very  satisfactory  explanation  for  the  abnormal  behavior  of 
the  sugars.  Chemists  tell  us  that  one  explanation  may  be  that  the  sugar 
and  water  combine  chemically  giving  a  new  compound  with  a  new  boiling 
point,  or  the  combination  of  the  sugar  with  the  water  may  give  a  very 
concentrated  solution,  thus  elevating  the  boiling  point. 

Boiling  point  of  sucrose  solutions.  Browne  in  his  "Handbook  on 
Sugar  Analysis"  lists  the  boiling  point  of  sucrose  solutions  as  follows. 

TABLE  10 
Boiling  Point  of  Sucrose  Solutions  {Browne) 


Per  cent  sucrose 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 

90.8 

Boiling  point 

100.4 

100.6 

101.0 

101.5 

102.0 

103.0 

106.5 

112.0 

130  0 

A  10  per  cent  solution  of  sugar  is  one  that  contains  10  grams  of  sugar 
and  90  grams  of  water  or  one  having  these  proportions. 

Heat  o£  solution.  Some  substances  that  are  soluble  may  liberate  heat 
when  they  go  into  solution.  The  example  of  mixing  water  and  sulfuric 
acid  (H2SO4)  is  a  well-known  one.  Other  substances,  instead  of  giving 
off  heat,  cause  the  temperature  to  drop  when  they  go  into  solution.  They 
are  said  to  have  a  negative  heat  of  solution,  and  heat  is  absorbed. 

If  sugar  and  water  of  the  same  temperature  are  mixed,  the  temperature 
of  the  solution  drops  as  the  sugar  is  dissolving.  Salt  and  many  other  sub- 
stances also  absorb  heat  as  they  go  into  solution.  When  the  substances  that 
absorb  heat  as  they  go  into  solution  are  crystallized  from  solution,  heat 
is  liberated  and  the  temperature  is  elevated  slightly.  This  is  often  notice- 
able in  making  fondant  or  fudge.  Frequently  the  sirup  softens  so  that  it 
is  not  so  viscous  and  is  easier  to  stir  when  crystallization  starts.  As  the 
first  crystals  formed  are  not  visible,  one  may  think  that  the  sirup  is  not 
going  to  crystallize  because  of  this  softening.  It  is  more  noticeable  with 
larger  amounts  of  fondant  and  fudge  than  with  very  small  ones. 

Crystallization 


In  making  icings,  frostings,  or  candy  like  fondant  and  fudge,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  crystallize  the  sugar  solution.  For  crystallization  to  occur,  nuclei 
must  form  in  the  solution.  To  these  nuclei  the  material  of  the  solution  is 
added  to  form  crystals.  Both  the  rate  of  formation  of  nuclei  and  the  rate 
of  crystallization  are  affected  by  the  nature  of  the  crystallizing  substance, 


50  SUGAR  COOKERY 

the  concentration,  the  temperature,  agitation,  and  the  impurities  present  in 
the  solution. 

Nature  of  the  crystallizing  substance.  Some  substances  like  salt 
crystallize  readily  from  water  solution.  It  requires  only  a  very  slight  super- 
saturation  to  start  nuclear  formation,  and  all  excess  salt  in  the  solution 
beyond  the  saturation  point  is  precipitated  as  crystals.  Some  substances  do 
not  form  nuclei  or  crystallize  so  readily  as  salt.  With  sucrose  it  is  often 
necessary  to  have  a  considerable  degree  of  supersaturation  before  crystal- 
lization commences.  Sucrose  crystallizes  more  readily  than  levulose. 

Formation  of  nuclei.  Nuclei  cannot  form  and  crystallization  cannot 
occur  except  from  a  supersaturated  solution.  The  formation  of  nuclei,  that 
is  the  uniting  of  atoms  to  form  nuclei,  is  influenced  by  several  factors.  If  a 
solution  is  left  to  stand,  a  few  nuclei  may  form  spontaneously  in  various 
places,  and  from  these  nuclei  crystallization  proceeds.  When  only  a  few 
nuclei  develop  spontaneously  in  the  solution,  the  crystals  grow  to  large 
size.  Usually  nuclei  formation  and  crystallization  do  not  begin  immedi- 
ately after  supersaturation  occurs.  The  rate  of  nuclear  formation  may  be 
favored  by  specks  of  dust  in  the  solution.  Agitation  or  stirring  of  a  solution 
increases  the  rate  of  nuclear  formation.  A  drop  in  temperature  at  first 
favors,  and  then  retards,  the  formation  of  nuclei.  Instead  of  spontaneous 
formation  of  nuclei,  seeding  a  solution  may  be  used  to  start  cr3'stallization. 

Seeding.  When  crystals  of  the  same  material  are  added  to  start  crystal- 
lization the  process  is  called  seeding.  These  crystals  serve  as  nuclei  for 
crystal  growth.  If  the  quantity  of  crystals  added  is  large  and  the  size 
of  the  crystals  small,  it  serves  as  many  nuclei  in  the  solution,  and  the 
resulting  crystals  are  small.  If  the  quantity  of  material  added  is  very 
small,  the  nuclei  formed  are  few  in  number  and  the  crystals  formed  are 
large.  One  may  think  of  all  crystals  as  being  large  enough  to  be  visible, 
whereas  many  of  them  may  be  very  small,  so  small  in  fact  that  they  may 
float  in  the  air.  Tutton  tells  of  crystals  difficult  to  obtain,  but  after  being 
obtained  several  times  in  the  laboratory  they  were  then  easily  obtained. 
If  crystals  are  floating  in  the  air  there  is  the  possibility  that  they  may 
serve  to  seed  solutions,  and  thus  start  crystallization. 

Rate  of  crystallization.  To  the  nuclei  formed  in  the  solution  new 
molecules  from  the  solution  are  deposited,  in  a  regular  order  or  manner, 
so  that  each  crystal  has  a  typical  shape.  One  side  or  face  of  a  crystal  may 
grow  more  rapidly  than  another.  The  rate  at  which  the  nuclei  grow  to 
larger  size  is  called  the  rate  of  crystallization.  This  rate  may  be  favored 
by  the  concentration  of  the  solution  and  its  temperature;  it  may  be  hin- 
dered by  foreign  substances. 

Concentration  of  the  solution.  A  more  concentrated  solution  favors 
the  formation  of  nuclei.  A  fondant  sirup  cooked  to  114°C.  contains  less 
water  and  is  more  concentrated  than  one  cooked  to  111°C.  Thus  nuclei 
form  more  readily  in  the  one  cooked  to  114°C.  Large,  well-shaped  crystals 
form  more  readily  if  the  degree  of  supersaturation  is  not  too  great.  The 


ADSORPTION  AND  IMPURITIES  IN  THE  SOLUTION    51 

most  favorable  supersaturation  for  crystal  growth,  of  a  sucrose  solution 
boiled  to  112°C.,  is  that  between  70°  and  90°C.  Although  crystallization 
occurs  in  a  very  short  time  when  the  sirup  is  stirred  at  these  temperatures, 
the  crystals  formed  are  larger  than  when  the  sirup  is  cooled  to  a  lower 
temperature.  See  Figs.  1  and  3.  Supersaturation  and  a  low  temperature 
are  desirable  for  the  development  of  small  crystals.  The  viscosity  of  a  very 
supersaturated  sirup  delays  crystal  growth. 

Temperature  at  which  crystallization  occurs.  It  is  a  well-known 
fact  that,  in  general,  chemical  precipitates  come  down  more  coarsely 
crystalline  if  crystallized  at  high  temperatures.  Barium  sulfate  is  a  good 
example  of  a  substance  that  crystallizes  in  large  crystals  at  high  tempera- 
tures. The  sugars  follow  this  general  rule.  Other  things  being  equal,  i.e., 
concentration,  etc.,  the  higher  the  temperature  at  which  crystal  formation 
occurs,  the  coarser  the  crystals  formed. 

A  drop  in  temperature  at  first  favors  the  formation  of  nuclei,  and  then 
hinders  it.  Crystallization  is  favored  in  sugar  sirups  by  cooling  to  a  certain 
temperature,  but  is  hindered  when  cooled  to  a  lower  temperature.  Since 
the  viscosity  of  a  saturated  sugar  solution  becomes  increasingly  greater  as 
the  temperature  falls  below  70°C.,  crystal  formation  is  also  slower  as  the 
temperature  falls. 

Agitation.  Stirring  a  solution  favors  the  formation  of  nuclei  and 
hinders  the  depositing  of  the  material  of  the  solution  on  the  nuclei  already 
formed.  Hence,  crystals  in  solutions  that  are  stirred  do  not  develop  to 
the  size  that  they  do  in  spontaneous  crystallization.  Bancroft  states  that 
"The  mean  size  of  crystals  is  determined  by  the  total  amount  of  the 
material  crystallizing  and  number  of  crystals.  The  really  important  thing 
therefore  is  the  number  of  nuclei  which  are  formed  under  any  given 
conditions."  If  small  crystals  are  desired,  then  the  conditions  should  be  such 
that  many  nuclei  are  formed.  Small  crystals  are  obtained  in  sirups  of 
definite  concentration  and  temperature,  if  the  sirup  is  stirred  until  the 
mass  is  kneadable.  However,  if  the  sirup  is  stirred  for  only  a  short  time, 
some  nuclei  are  formed,  but  after  agitation  is  stopped,  the  formation  oi 
new  nuclei  is  not  favored  and  crystal  growth  is  favored.  Fig.  2  shows 
crystals  from  fondant  stirred  for  only  a  few  seconds.  The  crystals  are 
much  larger  than  those  in  Fig.  1,  which  shows  crystals  from  fondant  that 
was  stirred  until  the  mass  could  be  kneaded.  The  same  thing  is  illustrated 
in  Fig.  10,  which  shows  crystals  from  divinity  that  would  not  quite  hold 
its  shape  but  spread  when  dropped  on  oil  paper.  The  crystals  from  the  same 
divinity  (Fig.  9)  which  was  stirred  until  it  would  hold  its  shape,  but  was 
glossy  and  not  dry  in  appearance  when  dropped  on  oil  paper,  are  small. 
Divinity  with  the  small  crystals  is  very  smooth  and  velvety  on  the  palate. 
This  emphasizes  the  importance  of  stirring  candy  and  icing  sirups  until 
practically  all  the  material  is  crystallized,  if  small  crystals  are  desired. 

Adsorption  and  impurities  in  the  solution.  Freundlich  states  that 
*'in  the  vast  majority  of  cases  the  foreign  substance  lowers  the  rate  of 


52  SUGAR  COOKERY 

crystallization."  The  rate  of  crystal  growth  is  retarded  because  of  adsorp- 
tion of  the  foreign  substance  by  the  crystals.  If  the  substance  is  strongly 
adsorbed,  crystallization  may  be  retarded  to  such  a  rate  that  it  is  practically 
abolished,  even  though  the  solution  is  very  supersaturated  with  the  crystal- 
lizing substance.  Since  the  adsorption  prevents  crystal  growth,  if  a  pre- 
cipitate is  formed  in  the  presence  of  a  substance  strongly  adsorbed  by  the 
precipitate,  it  will  crystallize  in  a  much  finer  state  of  subdivision.  Some- 
times the  substance  is  more  strongly  adsorbed  at  one  face  than  at  another, 
so  that  this  face  grows  more  slowly  than  is  customary  and  thus  becomes 
comparatively  larger  in  relation  to  other  faces.  This  explains  why  crystals 
from  pure  solutions  may  have  different  shapes  from  those  obtained  from 
impure  solutions.  Speaking  of  sugar  manufacture  and  crystallization  of 
sucrose,  Zitkowski  says,  "If  the  content  of  non-sugars  in  the  solution  is 
high  enough  crystallization  may  be  prevented  even  though  evaporation  is 
carried  to  the  point  of  dryness."  The  addition  of  other  carbohydrates,  such 
as  dextrose,  levulose,  and  starch,  to  sucrose  solutions  retards  the  crystal- 
lization of  the  sucrose.  The  extent  to  which  they  delay  crystallization 
depends  upon  how  strongly  they  are  adsorbed  and  the  proportion  added. 

Other  substances  strongly  adsorbed  by  sucrose  crystals  are  fat  and 
proteins.  Hence,  the  use  of  butter,  milk,  and  egg  white  all  retard  crystal 
growth. 

Crystallization  o£  sucrose  in  sugar  manufacture.  In  sugar  manu- 
facture, when  it  is  time  to  start  crystallization  in  the  mass  of  boiling  sirup, 
the  sugar  boiler  may  lower  the  pressure,  w^hich  causes  violent  boiling  or 
agitation,  or  he  may  add  a  sirup  or  water  to  change  the  concentration  or 
temperature.  He  may  also  seed  the  sirup  by  adding  a  sufficient  amount  of 
small  sugar  crj^stals.  The  crystals  when  first  formed  are  too  small  to  be 
visible  in  the  sirup  but  grow  to  visible  size.  This  may  be  in  a  few  moments. 
The  sugar  boiler  controls  the  temperature,  pressure,  and  density  to  bring 
the  crystals  to  the  desired  size.  If  they  are  too  small  when  finished,  too 
much  sugar  is  lost  in  washing  the  liquid  from  the  crystals.  If  they  are  too 
large,  the  public  does  not  care  for  them. 

Grades  of  sugar.  Rice  states  that  there  is  a  surprising  lack  of  informa- 
tion about  the  various  grades  of  sucrose  sugar  produced  and  their  specific 
uses,  probably  because  the  information  has  not  been  given  general  circula- 
tion. He  lists  36  grades  of  sucrose,  to  which  may  be  added  many  more 
grades  made  for  a  specific  use  with  a  particular  equipment.  The  following 
classifications  are  those  given  by  Rice. 

The  refined  sugar  distributed  for  household  use  is  somewhat  smaller 
in  grain  size  than  that  found  some  years  ago,  because  the  general  demand 
has  been  for  a  more  rapidly  dissolving  sugar.  As  the  finer  grain  gives  a 
whiter  appearance,  the  tendency  has  been  to  produce  a  finer  sugar.  Fine 
Granulated  is  produced  in  the  largest  quantity  of  any  grade.  In  the  same 
class,  each  with  increasingly  finer  grain  or  crystal  size,  are  Extra-fine 
Granulated,   Berry  or  Fruit  or  Fruit  Powdered    (it  is  designated  by  all 


GRADES  OF  SUGAR  53 

these  names),  and  Coating.  Rice  states  the  name  Fruit  Powdered  has 
nothing  to  do  with  fruit  nor  is  the  sugar  powdered.  The  "Coating"  is  used 
where  unusually  fine  crystals  are  desired. 

Four  sugars,  produced  especially  for  use  when  high-temperature  cooking 
is  necessary  in  making  clear  hard  candies  and  very  white  fondants  or  pan- 
coated  goods,  or  when  an  extremely  hard  grain  must  be  used,  are  Coarse, 
Standard,  Medium,  and  Manufacturers'  Grade.  Manufacturers  are  tend- 
ing to  use  Manufacturers'  Granulated,  which  varies  from  the  others  only 
in  that  it  is  the  finest  of  the  four  and  will  dissolve  much  faster.  In  this 
same  class  are  the  Sanding  sugars.  Sanding  sugars  are  used  to  sprinkle 
upon  the  surfaces  of  many  soft  candies  and  fruit  products  to  prevent  their 
sticking  together.  They  are  also  used  to  sand  gum  drops  and  fruits  which 
are  to  have  further  quantities  of  sugar  crystallized  upon  their  surfaces.  The 
crystals  of  Sanding  sugar  are  generally  nearly  perfect  and  exact  in  size. 

There  are  generally  produced  three  grades  of  machine  powdered  sugar 
differing  only  in  the  degree  of  fineness:  Coarse  Powdered,  having  about 
the  fineness  of  Coating  sugar;  Standard  Powdered,  being  somewhat  finer; 
and  XXXX,  commonly  known  as  Confectioners',  being  as  fine  as  practical 
to  produce  with  the  ordinary  type  of  sugar  mill.  A  still  finer  powdered 
sugar,  made  with  an  improved  powdering  mill,  is  sometimes  designated  as 
6X  or  Special  XXXX.  This  last  sugar  is  particularly  valuable  in  prepar- 
ing cold  icings,  because  they  remain  softer  longer  than  when  prepared 
with  coarser  powdered  sugars.  The  smaller  the  particle  size  the  greater 
the  amount  of  moisture  held,  because  of  the  proportionally  greater  surface 
area.  Rice  states  the  number  of  X's  applied  to  different  sugars  means 
nothing  in  actual  fineness.  Powdered  sugars  may  be  treated  to  prevent 
caking.  Usually  3  per  cent  of  cornstarch  is  added.  A  tri-calcium  phosphate 
has  been  introduced  for  this  purpose  and  1  per  cent  of  it  is  more  effective 
than  3  per  cent  of  cornstarch.  Its  use  is  not  as  yet  permitted  in  some  states. 

Rice  describes  a  new  and  different  sugar  called  transformed  sugar.  It  is 
produced  in  the  same  way  as  refined  sugar  up  to  the  point  of  crystallization. 
It  is  then  treated  to  give  a  very  small  grain  with  exceedingly  irregular 
surface,  the  surface  being  penetrated  by  cracks  or  recesses  which  cause  the 
grain  to  crumble  easily,  and,  because  of  the  relatively  large  surface,  to 
dissolve  almost  instantly  when  dropped  into  water.  The  particles  may  be 
crushed  easily  and  are  used  in  chocolate  coatings.  "The  crevices  in  these 
grains  are  very  small  and  naturally  are  full  of  air.  When  this  sugar  is  used 
for  creaming  with  shortening  in  the  production  of  cake  or  in  very  dry 
dough  for  biscuits,  this  finely  divided  air  cannot  collect  and  escape  in  large 
bubbles  but  acts  as  a  leavening  agent  and  reduces  the  necessity  for  most,  if 
not  all,  other  leavening  agents."  Because  of  its  fine  and  fluffy  condition  it 
can  replace  powdered  sugars  in  various  prepared  drinks  and  food  mixtures. 
At  present  there  are  seven  grades  of  transformed  sugar,  varying  in  fluffiness 
and  color. 

Soft  brown  sugars  are  graded  according  to  color  and  range  from  a  nearly 


54  SUGAR  COOKERY 

white  No.  1  to  No.  15,  which  is  as  dark  as  roasted  coffee.  The  grain  of 
these  sugars  is  softer  than  that  of  refined  sugar  and  the  percentage  of  invert 
sugar  increases  with  increasing  darkness  in  color. 

Amorphous  sugar.  When  sucrose  is  melted,  or  when  solutions  of 
sucrose  are  heated  to  high  temperatures  and  then  allowed  to  cool,  crystal- 
lization does  not  occur  immediately.  A  very  brittle,  very  hard,  solid, 
transparent  mass  is  formed.  This  form  of  sucrose  is  know^n  as  amorphous 
sugar.  It  crystallizes  very  slowly,  sometimes  taking  several  months  or 
years  to  crystallize.  Candies  of  this  type  are  extremely  hard.  Some  candies 
are  cooked  to  stages  between  those  of  the  soft  crystalline  ones  and  the 
hard  amorphous  forms.  Caramels  are  examples  of  this  type  of  candy — 
they  are  fairly  soft,  yet  are  not  crystallized. 

Crystallization  in  candy  making.  Large  crystals  are  the  result  of 
growth,  for  which  several  days  or  weeks  may  be  required.  The  growth 
of  the  crystals  is  favored  if  the  solution  is  not  stirred,  if  the  supersatura- 
tion  is  not  great,  and  if  no  crystals  are  added  to  the  solution.  Since  small 
crystals  are  desired  in  candy  making,  the  procedure  followed  is  the  op- 
posite of  that  for  obtaining  large  crystals.  The  period  of  crystallization 
is  short,  usually  not  over  30  minutes  is  required,  the  supersaturation  is 
great,  and  the  solution  is  stirred  after  supersaturation  is  attained. 

Stages  of  Cookery  of  Sucrose  Solutions  in  Candy  Making 

The  "cold-water"  test.  In  the  "cold-water"  test,  one  can  tell,  from 
the  firmness  or  hardness  of  a  portion  of  the  sirup  w^hich  has  been  dropped 
into  cold  water,  whether  the  sirup  has  reached  a  concentration  required 
for  the  type  of  candy  desired.  The  degree  of  firmness  in  the  cold-w^ater 
test  is  designated  by  different  descriptive  terms,  such  as  soft  ball,  medium 
ball,  hard  ball,  and  brittle.  It  should  be  remembered  that  there  is  no 
definite  stage  between  a  soft  ball  and  a  medium  one,  but  as  the  concen- 
tration of  the  solution  gradually  increases,  the  firmness  of  the  sirup  tested 
in  cold  water  increases.  One  factor  that  causes  variations  in  this  test  is  the 
fact  that  the  colder  the  water  in  which  the  sirup  is  tested  the  firmer  the 
tested  portion.  Another  cause  for  variation  is  that  the  portion  being  tested 
is  not  always  left  long  enough  to  become  cooled. 

Yet  with  long  practise  the  cold-water  test  can  be  used  with  great  preci- 
sion to  denote  the  stage  of  cookery  of  a  sirup.  It  is  the  different  interpreta- 
tions of  what  constitutes  a  soft  or  medium  ball  that  makes  this  test  a  more 
difficult  one  to  use.  The  number  of  terms  used  by  different  persons  to  sug- 
gest the  same  stage  of  cookery  is  illustrated  by  the  following.  In  looking 
over  a  large  number  of  recipes  for  a  candy  contest,  it  was  interesting  to 
find  that  of  600  recipes  nearly  200  had  exactly  the  same  proportion  of 
sugar,  corn  sirup,  water,  and  egg  white.  But  the  directions  for  making  the 
cold-water  test  in  these  200  recipes  varied.  Here  are  some  of  the  terms  used 
to  describe  the  portion  of  sirup  tested  in  the  cold  water :  Soft  ball,  medium 


ADDITION  OF  CORN  SIRUP  AND  OTHER  SUGARS    55 

soft  ball,  medium  firm  ball,  firm  ball,  hard  ball,  solid  ball,  real  hard,  very 
hard,  hardens,  threads,  soft  crack,  cracks,  crackles,  cracks  and  hops,  hairs, 
spins  hairs,  strings,  snaps,  breaks,  and  brittle. 

Stages  of  cookery.  In  part  the  descriptions  of  stages  of  cookery  of 
sugar  sirups  are  from  "Terminology  Used  in  Food  Preparation."  A  sucrose 
solution  that  has  reached  a  concentration  indicated  by  a  temperature  of 
110°  to  112°C.  does  not  form  a  ball  when  a  portion  of  the  sirup  is  tested 
in  ice  water,  but  spins  a  two-inch  thread  when  dropped  from  a  fork  or 
spoon. 

At  a  temperature  of  113°  to  115°C.  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  a 
portion  of  the  sirup  is  tested  in  ice  water.  This  ball  is  easily  molded  in  the 
water,  but  does  not  retain  its  shape  at  room  temperature.  Sirup  cooked  to 
this  stage  is  used  for  fondant,  fudge,  and  penuchi. 

At  a  temperature  of  118°C.  a  firmer  ball  is  obtained.  At  122°C.  the 
ball  is  still  harder  and  less  readily  molded  in  the  water.  At  122°C.  the 
ball  retains  its  shape  at  room  temperature.  Sirups  for  caramels  are  cooked 
to  118°  to  122°C.  Temperatures  of  118°  to  123°C.  are  used  for  sucrose 
sirups  that  are  to  be  poured  over  beaten  egg  white. 

The  sirup  at  temperatures  of  121°  to  130°C.  forms  an  increasingly 
harder  ball,  which  holds  its  shape,  yet  is  plastic,  when  a  portion  is  dropped 
into  ice  water;  it  is  used  for  popcorn  balls,  nougat,  divinity,  and  some 
taffies.  The  sirup  at  temperatures  of  132°  to  143°,  called  the  soft-crack 
stage,  separates  into  threads  which  are  hard  but  not  brittle  when  dropped 
into  ice  water.  It  is  used  for  butterscotch  and  taffies.  Sirups  cooked  to  149° 
to  154°C.,  the  hard-crack  stage,  separate  into  separate  threads  which  are 
hard  and  brittle  when  dropped  into  cold  water ;  used  for  brittles  and  glaces. 

The  length  of  the  thread  or  hair  that  forms  when  a  fork  or  spoon 
containing  some  of  the  sirup  is  lifted  into  the  air  may  also  be  used  to 
indicate  the  stage  of  cookery. 

Effect  upon  stage  of  cookery  of  addition  of  corn  sirup  and 
other  sugars  to  sucrose  solutions.  The  addition  of  corn  sirups  and 
other  sugars  to  sucrose  solutions  modifies  the  firmness  of  the  portion  tested 
at  a  definite  temperature  in  cold  water. 

Commercial  corn  sirup  is  composed  of  dextrin,  dextrose,  maltose,  water, 
and  a  small  amount  of  ash.  Frandsen,  Rovner,  and  Luithly  state  that  its 
composition  is  as  follows: 

Per  Cent 

Dextrin 29 . 8    to  45 . 3 

Maltose 4.6    to  19.3 

Dextrose 34 . 3    to  36 . 5 

Ash 0.32  to    0.52 

Water .• 14.2    to  17.2 

Since  the  composition  of  corn  sirups  may  vary  slightly,  this  may  result 
in  different  degrees  of  firmness  when  different  corn  sirups  are  used  with 


56 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


sucrose  solutions.  The  use  of  corn  sirup  with  sucrose  in  taffy,  brittles,  or 
caramels,  candies  that  do  not  require  crystallization,  produces  a  definite 
stage  of  hardness  when  determined  by  the  cold-water  test  at  a  lower 
temperature  than  when  sucrose  is  used  alone.  Dextrin  is  the  ingredient  of 
the  corn  sirup  that  brings  about  this  result,  for  if  dextrin  is  used  alone  with 
sucrose  the  temperature  for  a  definite  degree  of  hardness  is  still  lower  than 
when  corn  sirup  is  used.  In  some  of  the  early  references  on  sugar  cookery 
the  term  glucose  is  used  for  corn  sirup. 

Table  1 1  shows  the  effect  of  different  proportions  of  sugar  upon  the 
stage  of  hardness  in  sugar  cookery.  Miss  Daniels  has  reported  similar 
results  in  part. 

TABLE  11 


Amt.  of 

Amt.  of 

Amt.  of 

Amt.  of 

Soft 

Medium 

Hard 

Crack 

Cara- 

dextrin 

corn 

sucrose 

dextrose 

ball 

ball 

ball 

melized 

sirup 

Temp. 

Temp. 

Temp. 

Temp. 

Temp. 

°C. 

X. 

°C. 

°c. 

°C. 

1  cup 

1  cup 

107 

109 

114-118 

2  cups 

109 

111 

114 

120 

135 

1  cup 

1  cup 

110-111 

113 

115-116 

120-122 

140 

1  cup 

2  cups 

112 

114-115 

118-120 

126-128 

145-150 

2  cups 

113-115 

118 

122 

132 

155-170 

1  cup 

1  cup 

2  cups 

118 
125-128 

122 
132 

132 
140 

140-145 

It  can  be  seen  from  this  table  that  the  greater  the  proportion  of  corn 
sirup  used  the  lower  the  temperature  to  which  the  sirup  needs  to  be 
cooked  for  a  definite  stage  of  hardness. 

Fondant 


Fondant  is  made  when  sucrose  is  cooked  with  water  to  a  definite 
temperature,  the  sirup  is  cooled  and  beaten,  and  the  mass  crystallizes. 
According  to  accepted  standards  for  good  fondant,  it  should  be  snowy 
white.  The  crystals  should  be  so  small  that  they  are  imperceptible  and 
not  gritty  on  the  palate.  The  fondant  should  be  soft  enough  to  be  plastic 
and  velvety  but  not  dry  and  crumbly. 

Cooking  of  fondant.  Enough  water  should  be  added  to  dissolve  all 
the  sugar  during  the  cooking  period.  With  rapid  boiling  a  larger  proportion 
of  water  can  be  used.  With  a  slow  fire  and  slow  boiling,  it  is  preferable  to 
use  less  water,  or  a  long  time  is  required  for  the  cooking  process.  With 
larger   quantities   of   sugar   the   proportion   of   water   is    reduced   because 


CONCENTRATION  AND  TEMPERATURE  57 

evaporation  is  relatively  more  rapid  from  the  small  quantity  of  sirup. 
Covering  the  pan  during  the  first  part  of  the  cooking  period  allow^s  the 
steam  to  dissolve  and  wash  dow^n  crystals  from  the  sides  of  the  pan. 

Some  directions  state  not  to  stir  the  sirup  while  it  is  boiling.  It  is  well 
to  stir  it  to  be  sure  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  so  that  there  are  no  crystals 
in  the  sirup  to  start  crystallization  while  it  is  cooling.  The  danger  in 
stirring  candy  while  it  is  boiling  comes  from  splashing  the  sirup  on  the 
sides  of  the  pan.  These  drops  of  sirup  on  the  side  of  the  pan  become  dry 
and  nuclei  form  which  serve  as  a  basis  for  crystallization  while  the  sirup 
is  cooling.  A  damp  cloth  is  often  used  to  swab  the  sides  of  the  pan  to 
prevent  nuclei  and  crystals  forming  there  during  the  cooking  of  the  sirup. 
Since  boiling  solutions  of  sugars  are  not  saturated  solutions,  any  candy 
can  be  stirred  as  much  as  desired  while  it  is  boiling  without  causing 
crystallization,  provided  the  sirup  is  not  splashed  on  the  sides  of  the  pan. 
But  after  the  sirup  stops  boiling  it  cools  quickly  and  soon  reaches  the  super- 
saturation  point.  If  the  sirup  is  poured  for  cooling  from  the  pan  in  which 
it  is  cooked,  it  should  be  done  quickly.  Directions  often  state  not  to  scrape 
the  portion  clinging  to  the  pan  with  the  spoon.  Of  course  this  is  because 
the  small  amount  of  sirup  left  on  the  sides  of  the  pan  soon  cools  to  the 
supersaturation  point,  and  if  it  is  stirred,  as  it  must  be  in  scraping  it 
from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  crystals  may  form  that  will  seed  the  entire 
mass.  The  thermometer  should  not  be  allowed  to  roll  around  in  the  sirup 
while  the  sirup  is  cooling  for  this  agitates  the  sirup.  The  pan  should  be 
set  level  so  that  all  parts  of  the  sirup  cool  equally.  The  container  in  which 
the  fondant  is  poured  to  cool  should  have  a  smooth  surface,  as  rough 
surfaces  may  induce  crystallization. 

In  the  preceding  pages  the  factors  determining  the  size  of  crystals  in 
sugar  crystallization  are  discussed.  These  factors  are  applicable  in  making 
fondant  and  fudge. 

Concentration  and  temperature  for  cooking  the  sirup.  A  sucrose 
solution  containing  80  per  cent  of  sucrose,  i.e.,  80  grams  of  sucrose  and 
20  grams  of  water,  boils  at  112°C.,  is  saturated  at  90°C.  and  super- 
saturated below  90°C.  Therefore,  no  crystals  are  formed  in  a  sucrose 
solution  cooked  to  112°C.  until  the  temperature  drops  below  90°C. 
Woodruff  and  van  Gilder  found  that  fondant  cooked  to  115°C.  has  an 
average  water  content  of  about  13  per  cent.  The  higher  the  temperature 
to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked,  the  less  the  percentage  of  water  in  the  fondant. 
If  fondant  contains  too  small  a  proportion  of  water,  it  is  dry  and  crumbly ; 
if  too  much,  it  is  sirupy  and  runny.  When  the  sirup  is  cooked  to  109°  to 
111°C.  (Experiment  7B),  the  fondant  contains  a  high  percentage  of 
moisture.  Sirups  cooked  to  this  temperature  give  a  fondant  too  fluid  to 
knead  or  mold,  unless  it  is  beaten  when  hot.  Fondant  sirup  for  ordinary 
home  use  may  be  cooked  from  113°  to  115° C.  The  lower  temperature 
gives  a  softer  fondant  for  remelting  and  making  candy  like  peppermints; 
the  higher  temperature  gives  a  drier  fondant  for  molding.   It  should  be 


58 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


Fig.  1. — Crystals  from  fondant.  The  sirup  was  cooked  to  113°C. — then  beaten 
immediately  until  the  mass  was  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


Fig.  2. — Crystals  from  fondant.  A  portion  of  the  same  sirup  as  that  in  Fig.  1. 
It  was  beaten  slightly  while  hot  to  start  crystallization;  then  left  to  stand  several 
hours  until   the  whole  mass  was  crystallized.   Magnification   approximately  x  200. 
{Photomicrographs   of  sugar  crystals   by  courtesy   of  Ethel  L.   Sivanson.) 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


59 


Fig.  3. — Crystals  from  fondant.  A  portion  of  the  same  sirup  as  that  shown  in 
Fig.  1.  Cooled  to  40°C.  Then  beaten  until  the  mass  was  stiff  and  kneadable. 
Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


^xT. 


'^ 


At- 


\  )_■?', 


Fig.  4. — Crystals  from  fondant.  A  portion  of  the  fondant  shown  in  Fig.  3, 
immediately  after  adding  6  per  cent  of  beaten  egg  white.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


60 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


Fig.  5. — Crystals  from  fondant.  A  portion  of  the  same  fondant  shown  in  Fig.  3 
after  20  days'  storage.  Note  aggregation  of  the  crystals.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


Fig.  6. — Crystals  from  fondant  to  which  6  per  cent  egg  white  v  as  added  after 
20  days'  storage.  Compare  with  Fig.  4,  Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


Fig.  7. — Crystals  from  fondant.  A  portion  of  the  same  fondant  shown  in  Fig.  3 
after  storage  for  40  days.  Note  the  growth  of  crystals.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X   200. 


Fig.  8. — Crystals  from  fondant,  with  6  per  cent  of  added  egg  white  after  40 
days'  storage.  A  comparison  with  crystals  in  Fig.  4  and  Fig.  7  shows  that  egg 
white  tends  to  retard  crystal  growth  during  storage.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


62  SUGAR  COOKERY 


■  f  ■• 

^ 

V 

?/ 

# 

- 

C> 

\'  ' ,  ^ 

>4 

t 

^ 

.'•i 

-tr 

'^ 

■";.0 

'x^ 

w 

<tl 

*^^ 

.   *^^ 

/ 

^■-  ,  . 

>  , 

' 

'     #- 

" 

\ 

A    , 

,  - 

■i^di' 

Fig.  9. — Crystals  from  divinity  which  was  beaten  until  a  piece  dropped  from 
a  spoon  would  hold  its  shape,  yet  still  appear  glossy.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


Fig.  10. — Crystals  from  divinity.  Some  of  the  same  divinity  as  that  shown  in 
Fig.  9.  But  these  pieces  were  not  beaten  as  long  as  those  in  Fig.  9.  They  flattened 
out  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  These  crystals  and  those  shown  in  Fig,  2 
emphasize  the  importance  of  beating  candy  sufficiently.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


63 


1< 


Fig.  11. — Crystals  from  divinity.  Same  as  those  shown  in  Fig.  9,  but  after 
40  days'  storage.  Compare  with  crystals  in  Fig.  7  and  Fig.  8.  Magnification  approxi- 
mately X  200. 


.  -tJ-V/? 


'\^  "k'Mj 


^J  '^'-  ^r^  ^         ^': 


<gi 


^>7^- 


-  ^      it  r  !  ^     I   -  c* 


x«v 


AS: 


■';'^^fe^ 


.   i^'^'V    J  i  .    ...    ». 


iV- 


Fig.  12. — Corn  sirup,  sucrose  and  water  cooked  to  119°C.  and  beaten  while 
hot  until  the  mass  was  stiff.  Corn  sirup  retards  crystal  growth,  see  Fig.  1,  but 
not  to  the  same  extent  that  both  corn  sirup  and  egg  white  do.  See  Fig.  9.  Magnifica- 
tion approximately  x  200. 


64  SUGAR  COOKERY 

remembered  that  evaporation  is  greater  from  a  small  quantity  of  fondant, 
while  it  is  being  stirred,  than  from  a  large  quantity.  On  rainy  or  damp 
days,  when  the  humidity  is  high,  moisture  may  be  absorbed  from  the  air 
by  the  sirup,  so  that  it  is  preferable  to  cook  the  sirup  to  the  higher  tem- 
perature. Cooking  the  sirup  to  a  temperature  above  116°C.  gives  a  fondant 
that  is  too  dry  and  crumbly.  Jordan  states  that  commercially  the  amount 
of  moisture  in  fondant  is  controlled  carefully  and  according  to  the  use  for 
which  it  is  intended,  as  a  difference  of  1  per  cent  of  moisture  results  in  a 
fondant  too  soft  to  handle  or  too  dry  to  knead. 

The  growth  of  crystals  in  fondant.  Freundlich  states  that  "surface 
tension  is  also  the  cause  of  recrystallization,  in  which  small  crystals  unite 
to  larger  ones.  Probably  this  phenomenon  is  similar  to  the  union  of  minute 
droplets  to  larger  ones,  when  in  direct  contact,  for  it  is  unlikely  that  the 
formation  of  larger  crystals  could  be  due  to  the  increased  vapor  pressure 
of  the  smaller  ones  bringing  about  a  distillation ;  the  process  takes  place  far 
too  rapidly  to  allow  of  the  latter  explanation."  Water  in  fondant  is  a 
saturated  sucrose  solution.  The  crystals  are  in  contact  with  this  saturated 
solution.  Owing  to  the  higher  surface  energy  of  small  crystals,  as  dis- 
cussed in  Chapter  I,  the  smaller  crystals  dissolve,  and  the  larger  crystals 
increase  in  size. 

Crystals  in  fondant  may  grow  in  size  during  storage.  Halliday  and 
Noble  have  reported  the  growth  of  crystals  in  fondant  stored  for  17  days. 
Figs.  3  to  8  show  crystals  from  fondant.  Fig.  7  shows  the  growth  of 
crystals  in  fondant  after  40  days'  storage.  Compare  these  crystals  with 
those  shown  in  Fig.  3. 

The  addition  of  egg  white  to  fondant.  Egg  white  may  be  added 
to  fondant.  Paine  states  that  the  clumping  together  of  air  particles  into 
larger  particles  lessens  the  intensity  of  the  white  and  that  the  addition 
of  a  small  quantity  of  egg  white  to  fondant  prevents  the  aggregation  of 
the  air  particles,  thus  aiding  in  keeping  the  fondant  white.  The  beaten  egg 
also  incorporates  additional  air. 

The  addition  of  beaten  egg  white  to  fondant  also  retards  the  rate  of 
crystal  growth  during  storage.  Figs.  4,  6,  and  8  show  crystals  from 
fondant  to  which  egg  white  has  been  added.  Since  the  egg  white  is  ad- 
sorbed by  the  crystals,  the  effectiveness  of  the  egg  white  in  preventing 
crystal  growth  may  partially  depend  upon  how  the  egg  white  is  distributed 
throughout  the  fondant.  Swanson  found  that  not  much  more  than  6  per 
cent  of  beaten  egg  white  could  be  added  to  the  fondant,  without  the 
fondant  becoming  too  fluid.  She  found  3  per  cent  of  added  egg  white  to 
be  as  effective  as  6  in  preventing  growth  of  crystals  during  storage. 

The  addition  of  dextrose,  levulose,  or  invert  sugar  to  fondant. 
Dextrose,  levulose,  or  invert  sirup  may  be  added  directly  to  sucrose  solu- 
tions to  aid  in  regulating  the  size  of  the  crystals.  Or,  invert  sugar  may  be 
formed  during  cooking  of  the  sucrose  sirup  by  adding  citric,  tartaric,  or 
acetic  acids.  Often  cream  of  tartar  is  used  for  inverting  sucrose  in  fondant. 


COLOR  OF  FONDANT  65 

It  is  difficult  to  regulate  conditions,  such  as  the  time  of  cooking,  to  obtain 
a  definite  percentage  of  invert  sugar  for  sucrose  is  inverted  more  rapidly 
with  higher  temperatures  and  greater  acidity.  Hence,  it  is  sometimes  pref- 
erable to  add  a  definite  quantity  of  dextrose,  levulose,  or  invert  sugar. 
Woodruff  and  van  Gilder  found  that  cream  of  tartar  inverted  the  sucrose 
more  slowly  than  citric,  tartaric,  or  hydrochloric  acids  at  the  same  pH. 
Cream  of  tartar  can  be  added  in  sufficient  quantity  to  produce  enough 
invert  sugar  to  give  small  crystals  and  to  add  to  the  smoothness  of  the 
fondant.  If  added  in  too  large  a  quantity,  too  much  invert  sugar  is  formed, 
so  that  the  fondant  is  too  fluid.  The  flavor  of  the  fondant  is  quite  acid 
when  a  large  proportion  of  cream  of  tartar  is  used. 

The  larger  the  quantity  of  dextrose  or  levulose  added  in  making 
fondant  the  longer  the  time  required  to  beat  the  sirup  to  bring  about 
crystallization.  With  too  large  a  proportion  of  these  sugars  the  fondant 
is  soft.  When  fluid  centers  of  confections  are  desired,  it  is  necessary  to  add 
substances  that  bring  about  inversion  of  the  sucrose  after  the  fondant  is 
dipped  in  chocolate  or  treated  in  some  way  to  give  a  firm  outer  coating. 

Woodruff  and  van  Gilder  state  that  sirups  with  concentrations  of  43  per 
cent  or  more  invert  sugar  would  not  crystallize;  those  containing  16  to  23 
per  cent  formed  a  semi-fluid  mass  of  crystals;  and  those  containing  6  to  15 
per  cent  gave  a  plastic,  moldable  product.  With  11.1  per  cent  or  more  of 
invert  sugar  the  crystals  of  maximum  size  measured  10  to  13.2  microns 
and  the  grain  was  exceedingly  fine  to  tongue  and  roof  of  the  mouth. 
Fondants  containing  7  per  cent  reducing  sugars  of  either  kind  (glucose  or 
levulose)  were  of  agreeably  fine  texture,  with  their  largest  crystals  measur- 
ing 15  to  19  microns.  Crystals  in  candies  of  observed  coarse  texture  meas- 
ured 45  or  more  microns.  Differences  in  crystal  size  of  6  to  10  microns, 
which  was  the  difference  of  crystal  measurements  of  fondants  rated  very 
fine  and  slightly  coarse,  could  be  detected  by  the  tactile  sense. 

Halliday  and  Noble  have  reported  that  the  addition  of  corn  sirup, 
which  contains  dextrose  and  dextrin,  tends  to  prevent  the  growth  of 
crystals  during  storage  of  fondant.  They  also  found  that  fondant  made 
with  cream  of  tartar  retarded  crystal  growth  during  storage. 

Color  of  fondant.  Fondant  crystallizing  without  stirring  is  not  snowy 
white  but  more  transparent.  The  snow-white  appearance  of  the  stirred 
fondant  is  due  to  the  small  air  particles.  When  the  water  contains  alkaline 
salts  the  fondant  without  cream  of  tartar  added  has  a  yellow  or  gray 
tinge ;  that  with  cream  of  tartar  or  acids  is  white. 

Fondant  made  with  hard  water,  />H  7.2  to  7.8,  has  a  creamy  tint.  This 
may  be  caused  by  slight  traces  of  flavones  in  the  sugar,  but  it  is  probable 
that  it  is  due  to  caramelization  or  some  other  cause.  If,  to  some  of  the  same 
sugar  and  water,  a  little  cream  of  tartar  is  added,  a  snowy  white  fondant 
is  always  obtained.  If,  however,  corn  sirup  is  added  to  the  sugar  to  make 
fondant  with  the  above  water  a  gray  color  develops.  The  color  is  so  pro- 


66  SUGAR  COOKERY 

nounced  that  the  fondant  is  not  attractive  looking.  If  distilled  water  is 
used  with  the  corn  sirup  and  sucrose,  the  gray  color  does  not  develop. 

Ripening.  When  fondant  stands  12  to  24  hours  it  seems  more  moist 
and  is  more  plastic  and  kneads  more  easily  than  when  it  was  first  made. 
In  the  candy  trade  this  is  known  as  "ripening."  Fondants  that  contain 
substances  that  cause  slow  hydrolysis  of  the  sucrose  become  softer  on 
account  of  the  formation  of  invert  sugar,  but  ''ripening"  is  an  additional 
process  and  occurs  in  fondant  containing  only  sucrose.  Carrick  suggests 
that  the  reason  for  this  "ripening"  is  that  the  small  crystals  in  the  mass 
are  dissolved,  thus  lettiqg  the  large  crystals  move  more  easily,  and  they  are 
thus  more  plastic. 

Honey  fondant.  Candies  made  from  pure  honey,  on  account  of  their 
high  levulose  content  and  the  moisture-absorbing  property  of  honey,  usually 
become  very  sticky  in  a  few  hours  after  they  are  made.  Phillips  reports  the 
combination  of  honey,  whole  milk,  and  lactose  sugar  to  make  fondant. 
Stratton  combined  honey  and  lactose  in  fondant.  Fondant  usually  contains 
some  crystals  of  each  of  the  sugars  that  enters  into  its  composition,  but  in 
Stratton's  combination  the  crystal  phase  was  entirely  lactose,  the  crystals 
being  particularly  minute.  But  the  lactose  crystals  have  a  tendency  to  grow 
so  that  fondants  smooth  at  first  became  somewhat  grainy.  It  was  found 
that  the  honey  fondant  would  absorb  a  relatively  high  percentage  of  whole 
milk  by  mechanical  mixing,  and  that  this  milk  tended  to  prevent  the  growth 
of  the  lactose  crystals.  It  was  also  found  that  the  honey  has  an  unusual 
preservative  action,  for  the  milk  in  the  mixture  remained  sweet  as  long  as 
the  candy  was  kept. 

Fudge 

The  factors  that  control  the  size  of  the  crystals  in  fondant  making 
also  determine  the  size  of  the  crystals  formed  in  fudge.  Fudge  is  often 
made  of  brown  sugar.  Brown  sugar  contains  a  higher  percentage  of  invert 
sugar  than  granulated  sugar.  Thus  it  crystallizes  less  readily  than  granu- 
lated sugar. 

Fudge  also  ripens  with  storage  and  if  placed  in  a  container  with  a 
tight-fitting  lid  becomes  much  softer  and  more  velvety  after  24  hours' 
storage. 

In  substituting  cocoa  for  the  chocolate  in  fudge,  Reese  found  that  the 
quantity  of  cocoa  was  a  matter  of  individual  preference,  although  3  to  3^ 
tablespoons  to  each  cup  of  sugar  was  preferred  by  the  majority  of  judges. 
But,  if  other  conditions  were  standardized,  the  final  temperature  to  which 
the  sirup  was  cooked  depended  upon  the  proportion  of  cocoa  used.  Cocoa 
contains  considerable  dextrin.  It  is  probably  the  presence  of  this  ingredient 
that  affects  the  consistency  of  the  sirup  so  that  with  increasing  amounts  of 
cocoa  the  temperature  to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  should  be  lower.  For 
a  sirup  cooled  to  40°C.  and  requiring  about  12  to  15  minutes  to  beat  to 


THE  AMOUNT  OF  MILK  IN  CARAMELS  67 

bring  about  crystallization,  the  fudge  containing  1  tablespoon  of  cocoa  is 
cooked  to  112.5°  or  113°C.  For  each  additional  tablespoon  of  cocoa  the 
temperature  to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  can  be  lowered  one-half  degree. 
These  conditions  hold  for  the  recipe  given  in  the  laboratory  outline.  With 
larger  proportions  of  butter,  the  temperature  to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked 
should  be  elevated. 

Caramels 

Caramels,  taiiy,  and  brittles  are  types  of  candy  that  are  firm  but  not 
crystallized.  To  prevent  crystallization  larger  quantities  of  dextrose,  levu- 
lose,  corn  sirup,  or  other  substances  are  added  than  when  making  fondant 
or  fudge.  If  these  substances  are  not  added  directly,  then  larger  quantities 
of  substances  that  produce  inversion  of  sucrose  are  used,  thus  giving  a 
higher  percentage  of  invert  sugar. 

Corn  sirup  and  molasses  are  the  materials  most  commonly  used  in 
caramels  to  prevent  crystallization.  The  temperature  to  which  caramels  are 
cooked  depends  upon  the  ingredients  used  to  prevent  crystallization  and 
their  proportion.  With  increasing  amounts  of  corn  sirup,  because  of  its 
dextrin  content,  the  temperature  to  which  the  caramels  are  cooked  is 
lowered.  But  with  molasses  or  honey  the  temperature  to  which  the  caramels 
are  cooked  is  much  higher  than  when  corn  sirup  is  used.  In  the  recipe  given 
in  the  experimental  outline  with  1  cup  of  corn  sirup  to  2  cups  of  sucrose, 
a  temperature  of  119°  to  120°C.  produces  the  degree  of  firmness  liked  by 
most  people.  If  the  corn  sirup  is  increased  to  2  cups  and  the  sucrose  re- 
duced to  1  cup  the  same  firmness  is  produced  by  cooking  to  a  lower  tem- 
perature or  116°  to  117°C.  If  dextrose,  honey,  or  molasses  is  substituted 
for  the  corn  sirup,  the  temperature  to  which  the  sirup  must  be  cooked  to 
give  the  same  firmness  is  above  120°,  sometimes  as  much  as  126°C.  or 
higher,  the  temperature  depending  on  the  type  of  molasses  or  the  pro- 
portion used. 

Sugar  reactions  with  proteins.  Ramsay,  Tracy,  and  Ruehe  found 
that  when  milk,  albumin,  or  casein  is  heated  with  lactose  or  dextrose  a 
brown  discoloration  occurs.  As  the  temperature  is  raised  dextrose  and  casein 
become  so  firmly  attached  to  each  other  in  a  protein-sugar  complex  that  no 
amount  of  washing  will  remove  the  sugar. 

The  amount  of  milk  in  caramels.  A  large  quantity  of  milk  in  cara- 
mels develops  a  flavor  that  can  be  obtained  in  no  other  way.  Slow  cooking 
develops  more  of  the  brown  color  and  flavor  than  rapid  cooking.  The 
color  comes  from  lactose-protein  and  dextrose-protein  compounds  and  the 
caramelization  of  the  lactose  with  high  temperatures  and  long  cooking. 
If  all  the  milk  is  added  when  cooking  is  first  started  the  milk  may  curdle. 
If  most  of  the  milk  is  added  slowly  after  the  sirup  is  thick  it  very  seldom 
curdles.  In  using  large  quantities  of  milk  in  caramels  the  protein  of  the  milk 
will  tend  to  prevent  crystallization. 


68  SUGAR  COOKERY 

Large  quantities  of  fat  increase  the  richness  of  caramels. 

Caramels  are  stirred  or  handled  as  little  as  possible  after  the  sirup 
stops  boiling  until  they  are  cool.  After  the  boiling  is  stopped  they  soon 
reach  the  saturation  point,  which  for  caramels  is  above  100°C.,  and 
stirring  the  sirup  or  scraping  the  pan  tends  to  produce  crystals. 

Taffy 

Taffies  or  pulled  candies  have  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  cream  of  tartar 
added  during  cooking.  These  substances  cause  inversion  of  the  sucrose, 
which  prevents  crystallization.  Dextrose,  corn  sirup,  or  molasses  may  be 
added  to  the  sucrose  to  prevent  crystallization.  Pulled  taffies  become  white, 
or  if  made  with  molasses  become  much  lighter  in  color,  on  account  of  the 
air  bubbles  incorporated  during  pulling. 

The  cooking  temperatures  of  pulled  candies  vary  according  to  the 
ingredients  and  their  proportion  used,  but  follow  the  same  general  rules 
as  for  caramels.  Those  containing  large  quantities  of  corn  sirup  are  cooked 
to  lower  temperatures.  Taffies  are  firmer  than  caramels  and  are  there- 
fore cooked  to  higher  temperatures. 

Brittles 

Brittles  are  much  harder  than  caramels  or  taffies  and  are  cooked  to 
high  temperatures.  At  the  temperatures  to  which  they  are  cooked  carameli- 
zation  of  the  sugar  may  take  place,  and  this  as  well  as  added  substances 
tends  to  prevent  crystallization.  If  caramelization  is  very  extensive,  a 
number  of  decomposition  products  of  sugar  may  develop,  among  which 
are  some  acid  substances.  The  greater  the  amount  of  caramelization  the 
stronger  the  flavor  developed.  Soda  is  often  added  to  brittles.  It  not  only 
neutralizes  the  acidity  developed  and  lessens  the  bitter  flavor  but  owing  to 
gas  formed  gives  a  porous  texture  to  the  brittle. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Ayers,   S.  H.,  Williams,   O.  E.,   and  Johnson,  W.  T.,  Jr.     Sugar   Substitutes  in  the 

Ice  Cream  Mix.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  14:  No.  4,  29    (1918). 
Bancroft,   W.    D.      Supersaturation   and    Crystal    Size.     J.   Physical    Chem.   24:   100 

1920). 
Blester,   A.,  Wood,   W.   W.,   and   Wahlin,   C.   S.      Carbohydrate   Studies.     I.     The 

Relative  Sweetness  of  Pure  Sugars.     Am.  J.  Physiology  73:  387   (1925). 
Bingham,  E.  C.     Fluidity  and  Plasticity.     McGraw-Hill  Co.    (1922). 
Browne,  C.  A.     A  Handbook  of  Sugar  Analysis.     J.  Wiley  &  Sons   (1912). 
Browne,  C.  A.     Moisture  Absorbing  Power  of  Different  Sugars  and  Carbohydrates 

under  Varying  Conditions  of  Atmospheric  Humidity.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  14:  712 

(1922). 
Bryant,  A.  P.     Factory  Control  in  the  Manufacture  of  Cornstarch  and  Corn  Sirup. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  8:  930  (1916). 


REFERENCES  69 

Carrick,  M.  S.    Some  Studies  In  Fondant  Making.    J.  Physical  Chem.  23 :  589  (1919). 
Daniels,  A,  L.,   and   Cook,   D.      Factors   Influencing  the   Amount   of   Invert   Sugar 

in  Fondant.    J.  Home  Econ.  11:  65  (1919). 
Daniels,  A.  L.,  and  Troxell,  M.     The  Influence  of  Glucose  on  the  Cooking  Tem- 
peratures of  Candy  Sirups.     J.  Home  Econ.  6:  457   (1914). 
Daniels,  A.  L.     The  Influence  of  Glucose  on  the  Cooking  Temperatures  of  Candy 

Sirups.    J.  Home  Econ.  6:  482   (1914). 
Duryea,  C.  B.    Industrial  Maltose.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  6:  419  (1914). 
Frandsen,  J.  H.,  Rovner,  J.  W.,  and  Luithly,  J.     Sugar  Saving  Substitutes  in  Ice 

Cream.     J.  Dairy  Sci.,  2:  32   (1919). 
Freundlich,  H.     The  Elements  of  Colloidal  Chemistry.     Methuen  &  Co.   and  E.  P. 

Dutton  &  Co.  (1925). 
Graber,  H.  T.    The  Standardization  of  the  Rare  Sugars.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  13:  687 

(1921). 
Gray,  G.,  and  McMullen,  G.     Temperatures  for  Candies  and  Frosting  Sirups  at 

High  Altitudes  Above  Sea  Level.    J.  Home  Econ.  15:  119   (1923). 
Greenleaf,   F.  M.     As  Beta-Lactose  Milk  Sugar  Becomes  a  Food.     Food  Ind.   5 : 

304   (1933). 
Glllis,  J.     Le  Systeme:  Maltose  Eau.    Recueil  des  travaux  chimlques  des  Pays-Bas 

43:  135    (1924). 
Halliday,  E.   G.,  and  Noble,  I.  T.     Hows  and  Whys  of  Cooking.     University  of 

Chicago  Press  (1933). 
Haworth,  W.   N.     The   Molecular   Structure  of   Carbohydrates.     Chem.   and   Ind. 

54:  859   (1935). 
Herrlngton,    B.    L.      Some    Physico-Chemlcal    Properties    of    Lactose.      VI.      The 

Solubility  of  Lactose  In  Salt  Solutions;  the  Isolation  of  a  Compound  of  Lactose 

and  Calcium  Chloride.     J.  Dairy  Sci.  17:  805    (1934). 
Hudson,  C.  S.     Further  Studies  on  the  Forms  of  Milk   Sugar.     J.  Am.  Chemical 

Soc.  30:  1767   (1908). 
Hudson,  C.  S.     American  Sources  of  Supply  for  the  Various  Sugars.     Ind.  Eng. 

Chem.  10:  176   (1918). 
Hunziker,  O.  F.,  and  Nissen,  B.  H.    Lactose  Solubility  and  Lactose  Crystal  Forma- 
tion.    J.  Dairy  Sci.  9:  517   (1926). 
Jackson,  R.  F.,  Sllsbee,  C.  G.,  and  Proffitt,  M.  J.     The  Preparation  of  Levulose. 

Bureau  of  Standards  Scientific  Papers,  No.  519  (1926),  or  Vol.  20:  587  (1926). 
Jordan,  S.     Chemistry  and  Confectionery.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  16:  336   (1924). 
Jordan,  S.    Commercial  Invert  Sugar,  Its  Manufacture  and  Uses.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem. 

16:  307  (1924). 
Kucharenko,  I.  A.,  and  RosvoskI,  Z.  B.     Influence  of  Caramel  on  Velocity  of  Crys- 
tallization.    Planter  and  Sugar  Manufacturing  75:  130    (1925).  Abstracted  In 

Chem.  Abstracts  19:  3611    (1925). 
Leighton,   A.,   and   Peters,   P.   N.     Factors   Influencing   Crystallization   of  Lactose. 

Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  19:  No.  10,  68a  (1923). 
MacKenzIe,  J.  E.     Sugars  and  Their  Simple  Derivatives.     Gurney  and  Jackson, 

London   (1923). 
Mathews,  A.  P.    Physiological  Chemistry.    Wm.  Wood  &  Co.  (1930). 
National    Research    Council.    International    Critical    Tables    of    Numerical    Data, 

Physics,   Chemistry,   and  Technology.     McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.    (1926). 
Paine,   H.  S.     Constructive  Chemistry  In  Relation  to  Confectionery  Manufacture. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  16:  513  (1924). 
Paine,  H.  S.,  Brickner,  V.,  and  Hamilton,  J.     Means  for  Preventing  "Explosive" 

or    Bursting   Fermentation    of   Chocolate-Coated    Fondant   Candy.     Ind.    Eng. 

Chem.  19:  358  (1927). 
Perkin,   W.   H.,   and   Kipping,   F.   S.     Organic  Chemistry.     "The  Sugars."     J.  B. 

LIppincott  Co. 


70  SUGAR  COOKERY 

Phillips,   E.   F,      Overcoming   Difficulties   in   the   Use   of   Honey.      Food   Ind.   7:   61 

(1935). 
Porst,   C.   E.   G.,   and   Nichols,   V.   S.     Manufacture   of   Chemically  Pure    Dextrose. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  14:  217   (1922). 
Ramsay,   J.,   Tracy,   P.    H.,    and    Ruehe,    H.   A.     The    Use    of    Corn    Sugar   in   the 

Manufacture  of  Sweetened   Condensed   Milk.     J.   Dairy  Sci.   16:   17    (1933). 
Reese,  I.  G.     Fudge.     Special  Problem,  Iowa  State  College   (1933). 
Rice,   W.      Sugar  Is   Sugar,   but  the   Food   Manufacturer   May   Choose  from   More 

Than  Thirty-six  Grades  of  Sucrose.     Food   Ind.   5:  133    (1933). 
Sale,  J.  W.,  and  Skinner,  W.  W.     Relative  Sweetness  of  Invert  Sugar.     Ind.  Eng. 

Chem.  14:  522   (1922). 
Sherman,  H.  C.    Food  Products.    Chapters  II  and  XV.    The  Macmillan  Co.  (1933). 
Sjostrom,  O.  A.     The  Determination  of  the  pU  Value  of  Commercial  Glucose  as  a 

Substitute  for  the  Candy  Test.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  14:  941    (1922). 
Smith,  A.     General  Chemistry  for  Colleges.     The  Century  Co.    (1917). 
Stratton,  N.  J.     U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,854,430,  dated  April  19    (1932). 
Swanson,   E.   L.     The   Effect   of   Egg  Albumen   on  the    Crystallization   of   Sugars 

from  Sirups.     Iowa  State  College  Thesis    (M.S.)    (1929). 
Terminology    Used    in    Food    Preparation.      A    report    of    the    Terminology    Com- 
mittee of  the  Food  and  Nutrition  Division  of  the  American  Home  Economics 

Association.     Published  by  Home  Economics  Association    (1935). 
Tutton,  A.  E.  H.     The  Natural  History  of  Crystals.     Chapter  VI.     How  a  Crystal 

Grows.     E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.   (1924). 
Tutton,   A.  E.   H.     Crystallography  and   Practical   Crystal  Measurement.     Vol.  I, 

Chapter  II.     Macmillan  Co.    (1922). 
Whymper,  R.     The  Manufacture  of  Confectionery.     D.  Van  Nostrand  Co.   (1923). 
Williams,  J.  J.,  Wahlin,  S.  C,  and  Blester,  A.     Carbohydrate  Studies.     II.     The 

Relative  Sweetness  of  Invert  Sugar.     Am.  J.  Physiology  73:  397    (1925). 
Woodruff,  S.,  and  Van  Gilder,  H.     Photomicrographic  Studies  of  Sucrose  Crystals. 

J.  Physical  Chem.  35:  1355    (1931). 
Young,    S.    W.      Mechanical    Stimulus    to    Crystallization    in    Supercooled    Liquids. 

J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  33:  148    (1911). 
Zitkowski,    H.   E.     The   Seeding   Method    of    Graining    Sugar.     Ind.   Eng.    Chem. 

10:  992    (1918). 

SUGAR  COOKERY 

Laboratory  Outline 

Keep  a  record  of  the  experiments  performed  in  a  permanent  note  book. 
The  experiments  should  be  written  up  under  the  following  headings. 
The  object  of  the  experiment,  what  happens,  the  results,  and  most  impor- 
tant, the  conclusion  drawn  or  the  application  of  the  results  in  preparation 
of  food.  Suggestive  headings  for  record  of  what  happens  are  given  under 
most  of  the  experiments. 

Experiment  1. 

To  determine  the  relative  solubility  of  the  various  sugars. 

Measure  20  cc.  of  water  for  each  sugar  to  be  used.  Place  in  a  Pyrex  cup  or 
a  glass.  Take  the  temperature  of  the  water.  Weigh  the  following  amounts 
of  sugar. 


LABORATORY  OUTLINE 


71 


Sucrose 60  grams 

Levulose 70  grams 

Dextrose 20  grams 

Maltose 20  grams 

Lactose 5  grams 

Add  a  small  portion  of  the  sucrose  to  one  of  the  containers  of  water.  Stir 
until  all  is  dissolved.  Add  another  portion  of  sucrose  and  continue  until  you 
have  as  much  of  the  sucrose  in  solution  as  can  be  dissolved.  Take  the  tem- 
perature of  the  solution  w^hile  the  sugar  is  dissolving.  The  stirring  should  be 
continued  at  intervals  for  1  hour.  Weigh  the  sucrose  that  is  left  and  subtract 
the  amount  from  60  grams  to  obtain  the  amount  dissolved.  Your  results  v^^ill 
be  only  approximate  for  solubility  should  be  determined  in  flasks  to  prevent 
evaporation.  However,  the  results  that  you  obtain  will  show  the  compara- 
tive solubility  of  the  different  sugars.  If  any  undissolved  sucrose  remains 
after  stirring  for  some  time,  set  the  container  in  warm  water  and  stir  until 
all  the  sucrose  is  dissolved.  Put  the  container  away  in  the  laboratory  and  look 
at  it  occasionally  to  watch  the  growth  of  crystals.  Compare  the  crystals  formed 
with  those  of  other  sugars. 

Repeat  the  above  directions  for  each  sugar.  For  the  less  soluble  dextrose  and 
maltose  add  smaller  portions  when  dissolving  the  sugars.  Lactose  has  the  least 
solubility  of  the  above  sugars  and  should  be  added  in  very  small  portions. 


Kind  of  sugar 


Grams 
dissolved 


Temperature 
of  water 
at  first 


Temperature 
while  sugar 
is  dissolving 


Sucrose 
Levulose 


Experiment  2. 

To  determine  the  boiling  point  of  water  at  the  elevation  above  sea  level  at 
which  you  live. 

Place  1  pint  of  water  in  a  sauce  pan.  Heat  slowly.  Notice  the  temperature 
at  which  bubbles  begin  to  form  on  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan.  Of  what 
are  these  bubbles  formed?  What  becomes  of  them?  At  what  temperature  do  the 
vapor  bubbles  begin  to  form?  Do  the  first  ones  reach  the  surface  of  the  water? 
At  what  temperature  does  the  water  boil?  Are  you  at  sea  level  or  above  it? 
What  is  the  boiling  point  of  water  at  sea  level?  Observe  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  and  the  size  of  the  bubbles.  Heat  the  water  so  that  the  bubbles  form 
rapidly.  Is  the  temperature  the  same  as  when  the  bubbles  form  slowly?  How 
do  the  surface  of  the  water  and  the  size  of  the  bubbles  compare  with  those 
of  the  slow-bubbling  liquid?  Does  the  temperature  rise?  Explain. 

Compare  the  temperatures  registered  by  the  thermometer  when  held  in  the 
water  so  that  the  thermometer  bulb  does  not  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and 
when  it  touches  it.  Compare  the  temperatures  registered  when  the  bulb  of 


72 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


the  thermometer  is  only  partially  Immersed  and  when  it  Is  immersed  so  that 
there  Is  ^  to  1  Inch  of  water  above  the  bulb.  How  should  you  apply  these 
results  to  cooking  sirups  to  a  definite  temperature  In  class  results?  Is  the  tem- 
perature the  same  when  the  thermometer  bulb  touches  the  bottom  at  the 
center  and  at  the  sides  of  the  pan?  (This  may  or  may  not  vary  according  to 
the  type  of  gas  burner  or  the  electric  unit  used.) 


Temperature 


Slow- 
bubbling 
liquid 


Rapid- 
bubbling 
liquid 


Temperature 


When  bulb  of 

thermometer 

is  partially 

immersed 


When  bulb 

touches  the 

bottom  of  pan 


Type  of 
bubble 


Breakj 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  3. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  boiling  point  of  water  when  a  soluble  sub- 
stance is  added. 

To  1  cup  of  water  add  a  scant  Y\  cup  of  salt.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point. 
Note  the  temperature.  Continue  boiling.  Does  the  temperature  change?  Con- 
tinue boiling  until  the  temperature  remains  constant.  What  other  change 
occurs?  What  Is  the  effect  on  the  boiling  point  when  salt  is  added  to  water? 
Results  and  conclusions. 


Experiment  4. 

To  determine  the  boiling  temperature  of  sugar  sirups  corresponding  to  the 
"cold-water  tests"  used  in  candy  making. 

A.  Sucrose  sirup. 

Dissolve  1  cup  of  sucrose  (granulated  sugar)  In  Yz  cup  of  water.  (The 
proportion  of  sugar  and  water  used  may  need  to  be  Increased.  The  quantity 
of  sirup  should  be  sufficient  to  cover  the  thermometer  stem  to  a  depth  of  Yz 
Inch  above  the  bulb.  The  amount  of  sugar  needed  depends  upon  the  size  of  the 
pan  and  the  length  of  the  thermometer  bulb.)  Bring  the  solution  to  boiling. 
Note  rise  in  temperature  with  constant  boiling.  Explain.  Why  can  a  higher 
temperature  be  obtained  with  the  sugar  solution  than  with  the  salt  solution? 

Cook  the  sirup  In  sauce  pans  of  the  same  size  and  shape.  At  the  tempera- 
tures given  below  remove  portions  of  the  sirup.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  stove 
when  making  each  test.  Drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  sirup  in  cold  water.  Note 
the  consistency.  Is  it  easily  molded?  Does  It  ring  when  hit  against  the  side  of 
the  container?  When  do  threads  or  hairs  begin  to  form  when  a  portion  of  the 
sirup  Is  allowed  to  flow  from  a  spoon?  How  do  the  character  and  length  of  the 
threads  vary  at  different  temperatures?  Keep  the  series  of  tests  on  your  work 
tray  for  comparison  with  the  following  experiments  and  with  your  neighbors' 
results.  Note  the  texture  at  room  temperature.  Is  it  soft,  firm,  or  brittle? 
Put  a  portion  In  your  mouth.  Does  It  dissolve  rapidly  on  the  tongue?  To 
what  stage  in  candy  cookery  does  each  of  the  temperatures  given  correspond? 


LABORATORY  OUTLINE 


73 


Compare    with    results    given    in    candy    and    in    cook    books.    Tabulate    your 
results. 


Tempera- 

Texture 

ture 

Threads 

Stage  of 
cookery 

Used 

for 

°c. 

°F. 

In 

Room 

On  the 

water 

temperature 

tongue 

Ill 

113 

118 

122 

132 

145 

170 

B.  Sucrose  and  corn  sirup. 

Dissolve  ^  cup  (100  grams)  of  sucrose  and  Yz  cup  (162  grams)  of  com- 
mercial corn  sirup  in  1/3  cup  of  water.  Repeat  directions  under  4A.  What  is 
the  effect  on  the  stage  of  cookery  or  hardness  when  one-half  sucrose  and  one- 
half  corn  sirup  are  used?  Compare  your  results  with  those  of  Miss  Daniels  in 
J.  Home  Econ.  6:  457  and  482  (1914). 


Tempera- 
ture 

Texture 

Threads 

Stage  of 
cookery 

Used 

°C. 

°F. 

In 
water 

Room 
temperature 

On  the 
tongue 

for 

Ill 
113 
118 
122 
132 
145 
170 

C.  Sucrose  and  crystalline  dextrose. 

Dissolve  Yz  cup  (100  grams)  of  sucrose  and  Yi  cup  of  crystalline  dextrose 
(80  grams)  in  Yi  cup  of  water.  Repeat  directions  under  4A.  How  does  the 
hardness  of  the  sirups  obtained  under  4A,  4B,  and  4C  compare  for  any  given 
definite  temperature,  for  example,  118°C.? 


74 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


Tempera- 
ture 

Texture 

Threads 

Stage  of 
cookery 

Used 

for 

°C. 

°F. 

In 

Room 

On  the 

water 

temperature 

tongue 

Ill 

113 

118 

122 

132 

145 

170 

D.  Sucrose  and  dextrin. 

Dissolve  Yz  cup   (100  grams)  of  sucrose  and 
water.  Repeat  directions  under  4A. 


cup  of  dextrin  in  Yi  cup  of 


Tempera- 
ture 

Texture 

Threads 

Stage  of 
cookery 

Used 

for 

°C. 

°F. 

In 

Room 

On  the 

water 

temperature 

tongue 

Ill 

113 

118 

122 

132 

145 

170 

Results  and  conclusions. 


Suggestions  for  Variation  of  Experiments  and 
Additional  Experiments 

Repeat  Experiment  4C,  using  one-half  sucrose  and  one-half  sorghum.  Re- 
peat using  molasses  for  the  sorghum. 

Repeat  4B,  using  2  parts  of  sucrose  and  1  part  of  corn  sirup.  Repeat  using 
dextrose  for  the  corn  sirup. 


TAFFY 


75 


Repeat  4B,  using  1  part  of  sucrose  and  2  parts  of  corn  sirup.  Repeat  using 
dextrose  for  the  corn  sirup. 

Taffy 

Experiment  5. 
To  determine  the  conditions  necessary  for  making  a  pulled  candy. 
Recipe : 


Sugar 
Water 


1  cup 

y^  cup 


200  grams 


Directions.  Combine  the  ingredients.  Cover  the  pan  for  the  first  few  minutes 
of  boiling.  Why?  Cook  to  the  desired  temperature  and  pour  quickly  into  a 
buttered  plate.  Do  not  scrape  the  cooking  pan  with  the  spoon.  Cool  the  sirup 
until  it  can  be  handled  without  burning  the  hands.  Pull  until  light  in  color. 

1.  Cook  to  128°C. 

2.  To  the  above  recipe  add  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 

3.  To  the  recipe  add  ^  cup  (81  grams)  of  corn  sirup.  Should  the  tempera- 
ture to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  be  higher  or  lower  than  128°C.  ? 

4.  To  the  recipe  add  Yi  cup  (162  grams)  of  corn  sirup.  Should  the  tempera- 
ture to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  be  higher  or  lower  than  128°C.? 

5.  To  the  recipe  add  1^^  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

6.  To  the  recipe  add  Yi  cup  (162  grams)  of  sorghum  or  molasses.  To  what 
temperature  should  the  sirup  be  cooked? 

7.  To  the  recipe  add  3^  cup  of  honey  (162  grams).  To  what  temperature 
should  the  sirup  be  cooked? 

Is  128°C.  always  the  best  temperature  for  pulled  candies?  Look  up  recipes 
in  cook  books.  What  do  they  contain  besides  sugar  and  a  liquid?  What  is  the 
purpose  of  the  added  substances?  When  the  candy  has  hardened  examine  a 
portion  under  the  microscope.  Is  the  candy  crystallized?  Save  portions  of  all 
candies  for  several  days.  Do  any  crystallize  after  long  standing?  Compare 
the  behavior  of  this  candy  with  that  of  sulfur  in  the  crystalline  and  the  amor- 
phous condition. 

Enumerate  all  the  factors  which  may  cause  the  relationship  between  the 
cold-water  test  and  a  given  boiling  temperature  to  vary.  What  would  the  re- 
sults be  if  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  were  added  to  the  pulled  candy 
recipe? 


Temperature 
cooked  to 


Texture 


Flavor 


Comments 


Results   and  conclusions. 


76  SUGAR  COOKERY 


Caramels 

Experiment  6. 

To  determine  the  conditions  necessary  for  making  caramelsi 
Recipe : 


Sugar 

2  cups 

400  grams 

Corn  sirup 

Butter 

Milk 

1  cup 

2  tablespoons 

3  cups 

328  grams 

28  grams 

732  grams 

Prepare  one-quarter  or  one-half  of  the  recipe. 

1.  Combine  all  the  ingredients  and  stir  while  cooking  to  prevent  scorching. 
Cook  to  121°C,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pan  very  quickly,  taking  care  not  to 
scrape  the  contents  of  the  cooking  pan  with  the  spoon  while  pouring  the  cara- 
mel mixture.  Do  not  try  to  drain  the  last  of  the  contents  of  the  cooking  pan 
into  the  cooling  pan.  When  cool  enough,  cut  into  squares  with  scissors  or 
a  knife. 

2.  Combine  all  the  ingredients  but  reserve  two-thirds  of  the  milk.  Cook 
until  quite  thick,  about  119°C. ;  then  add  half  of  the  remaining  milk  so  slowly 
that  the  mixture  does  not  stop  boiling.  Cook  until  the  sirup  becomes  thick 
again;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  slowly.  When  the  temperature 
reaches  121°C.,  remove  from  the  fire  and  follow  directions  under  1. 

3.  Repeat  2,  but  cook  to  119°C. 

4.  Repeat  2,  but  use  1^  cups  of  sugar  and  1^^  cups  of  corn  sirup.  Cook 
to  118°C. 

5.  Follow  directions  under  2  for  combining  but  use  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2 
cups  of  corn  sirup.  Cook  to   116°   to   117°C. 

6.  Substitute  1  cup  of  sorghum  for  the  corn  sirup.  To  what  temperature 
does  it  need  to  be  cooked  to  have  the  cold-water  test  the  same  firmness  as  in 
3  ?  Follow  directions  under  2  for  combining  and  cook  so  that  the  caramels  will 
be  as  firm  as  those  under  3. 

7.  Repeat  6  but  substitute  strained  honey  for  the  sorghum. 

8.  Substitute  2  cups  of  cream  for  the  3  cups  of  milk.  Omit  the  butter.  Follow 
directions  under  2  for  combining.  Add  j4,  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  to   119°C. 

9.  Reduce  the  milk  to  2  cups  and  increase  the  butter  to  ^  cup.  Follow 
directions  under  2.  Cook  to  119°C. 

10.  Substitute  ^  cup  of  evaporated  milk  for  the  3  cups  of  milk.  Follow 
directions  under   1.  Cook  to   119°C. 

11.  Substitute  1  cup  of  water  for  the  3  cups  of  milk.  Follow  directions 
under  1  for  combining.  Cook  to  119°C. 

12.  Add  2  squares  of  chocolate  (56  grams)  to  the  recipe.  Follow  directions 
under  2  for  combining.  Cook  to   119°C. 

Cold-water  test  for  caramels.  The  caramels  are  cooked  sufficiently  when  a 
portion  of  the  sirup  dropped  in  cold  water  is  as  firm  as  that  wished  in  the 
finished  caramel.  If  small  quantities  of  ingredients  are  used  in  making  cara- 
mels, it  is  difficult  to  use  a  thermometer  for  the  stirring  of  the  viscous  sirup 
pulls  and  piles  it  up  against  the  thermometer.  The  viscosity  of  the  solution 
also  seems  to  have  a  tendency  to  hold  in  for  a  few  seconds  some  of  the  steam 


FONDANT 


77 


formed.    Thus    it    is    difficult    to    secure    accurate    readings,    the    temperature 
fluctuating  considerably. 

Wrap  portions  of  each  of  the  caramels  and  store  until  the  following  class 
period.  Do  any  of  them  crystallize?  Do  the  larger  proportions  of  corn  sirup 
keep  better?  Do  any  with  the  small  proportions  of  corn  sirup  crystallize?  When 
the  proportions  of  the  ingredients  of  the  recipe  are  changed  is  the  temperature 
as  indicated  by  the  thermometer  or  the  cold-water  test  a  better  indication  that 
the  sirup  is  the  right  concentration  for  removing  from  the  fire?  Can  smaller 
quantities  of  milk  be  used? 


Temperature 
cooked  to 


Firmness 


Texture 


Fh 


Color 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Fondant 


Experiment  7. 

To  determine  the  factors  which  influence  the  rate  of  crystallization  of 
sucrose  and  the  size  of  the  crystals. 

Dissolve  1  cup  of  sucrose  (200  grams)  in  Yz  cup  of  water.  (Increase  or 
decrease  these  proportions  if  necessary.)  Use  pans  of  the  same  size  and  shape. 
Be  sure  the  pans  are  smooth.  Because  the  sirup  splashed  on  the  sides  dries 
less  readily  from  the  heat  of  the  burner,  a  pan  with  a  straight  side  or  one  that 
curves  in  at  the  top  is  preferable  to  one  that  slopes  outward  at  the  top. 
If  desired  the  sirup  may  be  poured  into  plates  for  cooling  instead  of  following 
directions  under  the  outline.  If  this  is  done  the  containers  into  which  it  is 
poured  should  be  smooth  and  the  same  size  and  all  should  be  cooled  in  the 
same  manner.  Great  care  should  also  be  taken  to  pour  the  sirup  rapidly  and 
not  to  scrape  the  pan. 

If  the  amount  of  water  in  the  fondant  is  to  be  determined,  the  pan  and 
the  stirring  spoon  should  be  weighed  before  the  fondant  is  cooked.  The  weight 
of  the  fondant,  before  removal  from  the  cooking  pan,  minus  the  weight  of  the 
sugar  used  gives  the  amount  of  water  in  the  fondant. 

A.  Temperature  at  which  the  sirup  is  beaten. 

1.  Cook  the  sirup  covered  for  4  or  5  minutes.  Remove  the  lid  and  continue 
boiling  until  sufficiently  concentrated.  (Cook  to  113°C.  if  the  day  is  clear,  and 
to  114°  or  115°C.  if  rainy  or  if  the  humidity  is  high.) 

Boil  the  sirup  without  stirring  or  if  stirred  follow  the  caution  given  in  the 
text.  Cool  the  sirup  in  the  sauce  pan  to  40°C.  then  beat  until  stiff.  If  a  wooden 
spoon  is  used  for  beating  it  is  less  likely  to  form  blisters  on  the  hands  than  a 
metal  spoon.  After  crystallization  has  occurred,  knead  until  soft.  Care  should 
be  taken  that  no  crystals  form  on  the  side  of  the  pan  during  cooking  or  cool- 
ing, for  they  will  seed  the  mass  and  the  time  for  beating  will  thus  be  shorter 
for  A2  and  A3  than  would  normally  be  required  and  the  crystals  larger. 

2.  Repeat  1  but  cool  only  to  70° C.  before  beating. 


78 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


3.  Repeat  1  but  beat  the  sirup  as  soon  as  it  is  removed  from  the  stove. 

Examine  portions  of  each  fondant  under  the  microscope.  Wrap  portions  from 
each  experiment  in  oiled  paper  and  put  away  in  a  tightly  covered  container  until 
the  next  lesson.  What  is  the  effect  of  24  hours'  storage  on  the  firmness  and 
the  texture  of  the  fondant?  Why  do  the  directions  under  Al  state  not  to  stir 
the  sirup  while  cooking? 


Temperature 
cooked  to 


Temperature 
cooled  to 


Time  required  to  beat 
to  crystallize 


Size  of  crystals 


Results  and  conclusions. 

B.  Concentration  to  which  the   sirup   is  cooked. 

Repeat  Al,  but  cook  the  sirup  to  111°C.  Compare  the  length  of  time  re- 
quired to  beat  to  crystallize  with  that  for  A3. 

C.  Effect  of  added  substances. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  but  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  to  the  sugar  and  water. 
Follow  directions  under  Al. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  add  %  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  to  the  recipe.  The 
proportion  of  cream  of  tartar  may  need  to  be  varied  somewhat  with  the 
hardness  of  the  water,  but  the  rate  of  cooking  will  have  more  effect  than 
the  hardness  of  the  water.  Boil  over  a  large  gas  burner  so  that  the  time  of 
cooking  does  not  exceed   10  to    12  minutes.   Follow  directions   under  Al. 

3.  Repeat  C2,  but  cook  slowly,  taking  at  least  2  or  3  times  as  long  to  cook 
as   for   C2. 

4.  Repeat  Al,  but  add  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  to  the  recipe. 

5.  Repeat  Al,  adding  1  tablespoon  of  corn  sirup  to  the  recipe. 

6.  Repeat  Al,  adding  4  tablespoons  of  corn  sirup  to  the  recipe. 

7.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Stir  while  melting.  Do  not  have  the  heat 
intense  enough  to  decidedly  darken  or  scorch  the  sirup.  When  it  is  all  melted 
and  a  golden  brown  color,  add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Then 
add  to  the   fondant  recipe   and   follow  directions  under  CI. 


Sugar 
grams 


Water 
grams 


Added 
substance 


Cook  to 

°C. 


Cool  to 

°C 


Time  required  to 

cook  to  reach 

113°C. 


Time  required  to 

beat  to 

crystallize 


Amount 

of  water  in 

fondant 


Color 


Texture 


Flavor 


Yield 


FUDGE  79 

If  C4,  6,  and  7  do  not  crystallize  let  them  stand  until  the  next  lesson. 
What  would  be  the  effect  on  the  rate  of  crystallization  if  these  candies  were 
allowed  to  cook  to  a  higher  temperature?  If  they  were  beaten  hot?  What  is 
the  efEect  on  the  rate  of  crystallization  of  sugar  when  considerable  hydrolysis 
has  occurred,  as  in  C3  and  C4,  or  when  a  large  amount  of  corn  sirup  or 
caramelized  sugar  has  been  added,  as  in  C6  or  C7? 

Test  portions  of  Al   and  C2  with  Fehling's  solution. 

What  is  the  action  of  cream  of  tartar  when  added  to  fondant?  What 
would  be  the  result  if  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  were  substituted  for  the  cream 
of  tartar  in  C2  and  C3  ?  Is  the  fondant  obtained  in  C2  and  C3  superior  to 
that  obtained  in  Al  ?  Compare  the  keeping  qualities  of  the  different  fondants 
by  putting  some  of  each  away  in  a  covered  container  and  observing  at 
different  periods.  Examine  portions  of  each  under  the  microscope. 

Experiment  8. 

To  determine  the  comparative  ease  of  crystallization  of  different  sugars 
in  making  fondant. 

A.  Repeat  Experiment   7A,   but  substitute   dextrose   for   the   sucrose. 

B.  Repeat  Experiment  7A,  substituting  levulose  for  the  sucrose.  If  levu- 
lose  cannot  be  obtained  use  honey,  which  contains  a  high  percentage  of 
levulose.  Or  use  the  liquid  portion  of  crystallized  honey,  which  is  nearly 
pure  levulose. 

If  any  under  A  or  B  do  not  crystallize,  recook  them.  See  if  they  will 
crystallize  after  being  cooked  to  a  higher  temperature. 

Fudge 

Experiment  9. 

To  determine  the  factors  influencing  the  consistency  and  flavor  of  fudge. 
Recipe : 

Sugar  1  cup  200  grams 

Milk  yi  cup  122  grams 

Butter  1  tablespoon  14  grams 

Chocolate  ^  square  21  grams 

Combine  sugar,  chocolate,  butter,  and  liquid.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  the  chocolate  is  melted.  Cook  to  the  temperatures  given  below. 
If  the  mixture  is  poured  into  another  container  for  cooling,  be  sure  the  con- 
tainer is  smooth.  If  it  is  poured  into  a  platter  or  similar  utensil,  cooling  will 
be  more  rapid  and  even  more  so  if  the  platter  is  set  on  a  cake  rack  or  is  ele- 
vated. Use  containers  of  the  same  size  and  the  same  method  for  all  the 
experiments.  Cool  to  40°C.  and  beat  until  the  mass  begins  to  crystallize. 
Turn  quickly  into  a  buttered  pan  or  knead  as  desired.  Select  thermometers 
that  have  the  same  boiling  point.  The  recipe  may  need  to  be  doubled  or 
increased  so  that  the  quantity  of  material  in  the  cooking  pan  will  be  great 
enough  to  cover  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  in  order  to  obtain  an  accurate 
reading.   How  should   the   thermometers   be   held   in   the   sirup   to   determine 


80 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


differences  in  consistency  of  the  finished  fudge,  when  the  difference  in  tem- 
perature to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  is  only   1   degree? 

Compare  the  texture  and  consistency  of  each  fudge.  What  temperature  is 
most  desirable  for  fudge  that  is  not  kneaded?  For  fudge  which  is  kneaded?  If 
granular  fudge  is  desired  and  the  sirup  is  stirred  while  hot,  should  the  sirup  be 
cooked  to  the  same  degree  as  for  fudge  that  is  beaten  after  cooling?  In  making 
4  times  the  recipe  would  you  take  4  times  the  quantity  of  liquid?  Why? 

A.  Temperature  to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked. 


Temperature 
cooked  to 


Time  required  to  beat  to 
crystallize 


T^ 


exture 


Consistency 


1.  110°C. 

2.  Ill 

3.  112 

4.  113 

5.  115 


Results. 

B.  Kind  of  liquid. 

Cook  to  the  temperature  found  best  under  9A. 

1.  Use  water  for  the  liquid. 

2.  Use  milk  for  the  liquid. 

3.  Use  cream  for  the  liquid. 

4.  Use  cream  for  the  liquid  and  omit  the  butter. 

C.  Time  of  adding  the  fat. 

1.  Add  fat  at  first  so  that  it  is  in  the  sirup  during  the  cooking  process. 

2.  Add  fat  after  removing  from  the  fire.  Put  fat  on  top  of  hot  fudge,  but  do 
not  stir  until  cool  enough  to  beat.  Compare  flavor  and  texture  with  the  fudge 
under  CI. 

D.  The  proportion  of  cocoa  used. 

The  thermometers  should  have  the  same  boiling  point  and  all  conditions 
should  be  carefully  standardized.  Follow  directions  under  A. 

1.  Substitute  1  tablespoon  (7  grams)  cocoa  for  the  chocolate.  Cook  to  114°C. 

2.  Substitute  2  tablespoons  (14  grams)  cocoa  for  the  chocolate.  Cook  to 
113°C. 

3.  Substitute  3 
112°C. 

4.  Substitute  4 
111°C. 

5.  Substitute   5 
110°C. 

If  Dl  is  too  hard  repeat  the  series  cooking  Dl  to  113°C.  and  decreasing 
the  temperature  0.5°  for  each  tablespoon  of  cocoa  added.  Place  portions  of  the 
fudges  away  to  ripen.  Compare  texture  and  flavor.  Which  proportion  of  cocoa 
do  you  prefer? 


tablespoons  (21  grams)  cocoa  for  the  chocolate.  Cook  to 
tablespoons  (28  grams)  cocoa  for  the  chocolate.  Cook  to 
tablespoons    (35   grams)    cocoa   for   the   chocolate.   Cook   to 


ADDITIONAL  EXPERIMENTS  81 

Write  a  summary  of  the  factors  that  influence  the  flavor  and  consistency 
of  fudge. 

Suggestions  for  Variations  o£  Experiments  or  Additional 
Experiments  with  Fudge  ^    ^_^ 

Prepare  fudge  by  adding  1  tablespoon  of  corn  sirup  to  the  recipe. 

Prepare  fudge  by  adding  2  tablespoons  of  corn  sirup  to  the  recipe.  Compare 
flavor,  texture,  glossiness,  and  keeping  qualities  with  fudges  made  under  Ex- 
periment 9. 

Prepare  fudge  by  adding  fondant  to  the  fudge. 

Experiment  10. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  a  weak  alkali  and  heat  upon  crystalline  dextrose 
when  it  is  used  in  fondant. 
Recipe : 

Crystalline  dextrose  1  cup 

Water  Yz  cup 

1.  Use  distilled  water  and  cook  until  a  medium  firm  ball  is  formed  in  cold 
water.  Cool  to  50°C.  and  beat. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  substitute  hard  water  for  the  distilled  water. 

3.  Use  20  per  cent,  or  1/5  cup,  of  dextrose,  and  80  per  cent,  or  4/5  cup,  of 
sucrose.  Use  distilled  water  and  cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water. 
What  is  the  temperature?  Cool  to  50°C.  and  beat. 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  substitute  hard  water  for  the  distilled  water. 

5.  Repeat  3,  but  add  200  parts  of  magnesium  carbonate  per  million  parts 
of  water  to  the  recipe.  (This  is  less  than  the  proportions  of  carbonates  found 
in  much  of  the  water  used  in  different  sections  of  the  country.) 

6.  Repeat  3,  but  add  1/64  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  recipe. 

7.  Repeat  3,  but  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  the  recipe. 
Cream  of  tartar,  ^  teaspoon,  may  be  used  for  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

The  main  principles  of  sugar  cookery  are  covered,  and  some  are  repeated, 
in  the  preceding  experiments.  Some  frostings  and  some  candies  have  added 
substances,  like  egg  white,  which  retard  crystallization.  The  principles  for 
cooking  are  the  same  as  those  used  in  cooking  and  preparing  the  candies  of 
the  preceding  experiments.  However,  to  have  frostings  a  consistency  to 
spread  and  cut  well,  variations  in  temperature  of  cooking  from  that  of 
candy  may  be  necessary. 

Suggestions  for  Additional  Experiments 

1.  Prepare  chocolate  fudge  icing  and  use  on  cake  or  cookies.  Determine  the 
temperature  to  which  the  sirup  should  be  cooked. 

2.  Substitute  brown  sugar  for  white  sugar  in  icing. 

3.  Make  caramel  or  burnt-sugar  icing  by  melting  one-half  the  sugar  to  be 
used  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Then  dissolve  in  water.  Add  the  remainder  of 


82  SUGAR  COOKERY 

the  sugar,  and  the  butter,  and  cook  to  the  same  temperatures  used  for  choco- 
late fudge  icing.  Which  temperature  produces  the  best  texture  of  icing? 

4.  Prepare  boiled  icing  by  pouring  the  cooked  sirup  over  beaten  egg  white. 
Prepare  an  outline  for  making  this  type  of  icing,  giving  variations  in  tem- 
perature to  which  the  sirup  is  cooked  before  adding  to  the  egg  white  and  the 
temperature  to  which  the  sirup  is  cooled  before  adding  the  sirup  to  the  egg 
white.  Vary  the  amount  of  sugar  used  for  different  proportions  of  egg.  Consult 
any  reference  that  you  wish  for  making  your  outline  and  use  the  results  of  any 
of  the  sugar  experiments. 

For  a  control  use  1  cup  sugar,  200  grams,  ^  cup  corn  sirup,  82  grams,  and 
y^  cup  of  water.  Cook  to  119°  or  120°C.  and  pour  slowly  into  1  stiffly  beaten 
egg  white,  beating  as  the  sirup  is  added.  For  divinity  beat  until  pieces  dropped 
on  wax  paper  will  hold  their  shape. 


CHAPTER  III 

FREEZING 

A  pure  liquid  has  a  definite  freezing  point.  In  freezing  the  fluid 
changes  from  a  liquid  to  a  solid  state.  Water  freezes  at  0°C.  or  32°F. 
Just  as  sugar  solutions  in  cooling  may  give  supersaturated  solutions  before 
crystallization  starts,  so  water  may  be  supercooled  before  it  freezes. 
Furthermore,  the  conditions  for  supersaturation  and  supercooling  are 
similar.  For  supersaturation  the  solution  must  not  be  agitated  and  no 
crystals  must  be  added.  If  a  test  tube  of  water  containing  a  thermometer 
is  immersed  in  a  mixture  of  ice  and  salt,  the  temperature  of  the  water  will 
drop  to  — 4°C.  or  lower.  If  the  slightest  movement  is  made  or  if  a  small 
crystal  of  ice  is  added  the  water  will  crystallize  quickly,  and  the  tempera- 
ture rises  to  0°C.,  for  water  in  freezing  gives  off  heat.  A  gram  of  water 
changing  from  0°  to  ice  at  0°C.  gives  off  79.9  (or  about  80)  calories  of 
heat.  When  the  water  has  been  supercooled,  this  heat  of  solidification 
elevates  the  temperature  of  the  ice  and  liquid  to  0°C.  The  heat  of  crystal- 
lization may  be  absorbed  by  the  liquid  or  given  off  to  the  surroundings  if 
the  freezing  liquid  is  not  insulated. 

The  Freezing  Point  of  a  Liquid 

The  freezing  point  of  a  liquid  cannot  be  defined  as  the  temperature  at 
which  the  liquid  becomes  a  solid,  for  supercooled  liquids  are  cooled  below 
the  freezing  point.  The  freezing  point  and  the  melting  point  are  identical, 
so  that  the  freezing  point  may  be  defined  as  the  temperature  at  which  the 
solid  melts.  The  freezing  point  of  a  liquid  may  also  be  defined  as  the 
temperature  at  which  the  solid  and  liquid  are  in  equilibrium.  Here  equilib- 
rium means  the  temperature  at  which  any  proportion  of  solid  and  liquid 
can  exist  without  change,  that  is,  no  solid  melts  and  no  liquid  freezes. 
For  water,  this  temperature  is  0°C.  Of  course,  equilibrium  can  exist  for 
a  long  period  of  time  only  if  the  solid  and  liquid  are  completely  insulated 
or  if  the  temperature  of  the  surroundings  is  at  the  freezing  point  of  the 
liquid.  If  the  temperature  of  the  surroundings  changes  slightly  above  0°C. 
so  that  heat  is  absorbed,  some  of  the  solid  melts.  If  the  temperature  of 
the  surroundings  is  below  0°C.,  so  that  heat  is  withdrawn  from  the  mix- 
ture, the  liquid  freezes.  After  all  the  liquid  is  frozen,  the  temperature 
of  the  ice  may  drop  below  0°C.,  just  as  the  temperature  of  the  ground  or 
a  stone  may  assume  the  temperature  of  the  surroundings. 

83 


84  FREEZING 

If  ice  and  water  that  are  not  at  the  same  temperature  are  mixed,  they 
are  not  in  equilibrium,  since  ice  and  water  are  in  equilibrium  only  at  the 
freezing  point  or  0°C.  If  the  temperature  of  the  ice  is  0°C.  and  the 
temperature  of  the  water  is  20°C.  some  of  the  ice  melts.  In  melting,  each 
gram  of  ice  absorbs  80  calories  of  heat,  and  the  temperature  of  the  water 
is  lowered.  If  sufficient  ice  is  added  to  the  water,  and  the  temperature 
of  the  surroundings  does  not  influence  the  mixture,  ice  melts  until  the 
temperature  of  the  water  reaches  0°C.  and  equilibrium  is  established.  If 
the  quantity  of  ice  added  to  the  water  is  not  sufficient  to  lower  the 
temperature  of  the  water  to  0°C.,  the  temperature  of  the  water  is  lowered 
as  long  as  the  ice  melts  and  provided  the  surroundings  do  not  influence 
the  temperature.  After  the  ice  is  all  melted  the  temperature  of  the  water 
cannot  be  lowered  except  from  the  surroundings. 

Lowering  of  the  Freezing  Point 

When  a  soluble  substance  is  dissolved  in  a  liquid  the  freezing  point  is 
lower  than  that  of  the  pure  solvent.  A  gram-molecular  weight  (mole) 
of  a  non-ionized  substance  in  a  liter  of  water  lowers  the  freezing  point 
1.86°C.  The  lowering  of  the  freezing  point  can  be  continued  as  long  as 
the  substance  is  soluble.  If  no  more  than  3  moles  of  a  non-ionized  substance 
are  soluble  in  a  liter  of  water,  the  freezing  point  cannot  be  depressed 
below  — 5.58°C.  Substances  that  are  not  very  soluble  do  not  affect  the 
freezing  point  particularly,  because  such  a  small  portion  of  a  mole  of  the 
substance  is  dissolved.  Thus  substances  in  suspension,  such  as  fat  in  milk 
or  cream,  do  not  affect  the  freezing  point  of  an  ice-cream  mix  in  the  same 
way  that  sugar  does,  for  the  fat  is  not  soluble. 

Ionized  substances  and  the  freezing  point.  Sugar  does  not  ionize 
or  dissociate  in  the  solution  to  an  extent  great  enough  to  influence  the 
freezing  point.  Salt  belongs  to  the  groups  of  electrolytes*  which  dissociate 
into  ions  in  the  solution.  The  amount  of  ionization  depends  upon  the 
concentration  of  the  solution :  the  less  concentrated  the  solution  the  greater 
the  dissociation.  In  a  very  dilute  solution,  complete  dissociation  into  ions 
may  occur.  If  58  grams  of  salt  or  sodium  chloride  in  1  liter  of  water 
are  completely  ionized  into  sodium  and  chlorine  ions,  there  will  be  1  mole 
of  sodium  ions  and  1  of  chlorine  ions.  Thus  the  two  lower  the  freezing 
point  (2  X  1.86)  or  — 3.72°C.  The  molecular  weight  of  sucrose  is  342 
grams,  that  of  levulose  is  180,  and  that  of  dextrose  is  180  grams.  None  of 
the  sugars  ionize  to  an  extent  that  affects  the  freezing  point.  Compare 
the  freezing  points,  if  ^  cup,  or  150' grams,  each,  of  sucrose,  levulose,  or 
dextrose  is  added  to  a  quart  of  cream. 

Calcium  chloride  ionizes  into  3  ions.  Therefore,  a  mole  of  calcium 
chloride  depresses  the  freezing  point  more  than  a  mole  of  sodium  chloride. 


FREEZING  MIXTURES  85 

The  calcium  chloride  is  also  more  soluble  than  sodium  chloride,  so  that  a 
greater  number  of  moles  can  be  dissolved  in  a  liter  of  water. 

CaCla     <         ^     Ca++2C1- 

The  Freezing  Point  of  Ice  Cream  and  Ices 

Milk,  which  contains  sugar  and  other  dissolved  substances,  has  a  lower 
freezing  point  than  water.  When  sugar  is  dissolved  in  water  and  some 
fruit  juice  added  to  make  a  sherbet  or  ice  the  freezing  point  of  the  sherbet 
mixture  is  about  — 4°  to  — 5°C.,  depending  upon  the  proportion  of  sugar 
added.  Ice  cream  containing  about  %  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  cream 
freezes  between  — 1°  and  — 2°C.,  or  about  29°F.  Ice  cream  usually  con- 
tains a  smaller  percentage  of  sugar  than  ices  or  sherbets. 

Freezing  Mixtures 

When  a  crystalline  substance  is  added  to  a  liquid  its  freezing  point  is 
lowered.  However,  as  a  solution  freezes  it  separates  into  crystals  of  the 
solvent  and  crystals  of  the  dissolved  substance. 

Suppose  10  grams  of  salt  are  added  to  90  grams  of  water  to  give  a  10 
per  cent  salt  solution.  The  salt  dissolves  and  the  temperature  of  the  solu- 
tion is  lowered.  The  freezing  point  of  salt  solutions  may  be  shown  in 
the  diagram  by  the  line  AB.  The  temperature  is  represented  vertically 
and  the  percentage  of  salt  in  the  solution  is  represented  horizontally. 

The  freezing  point  of  water  is  0°C.  This  is  represented  on  the  line 
AB  of  Fig.  13,  at  A.  The  freezing  point  of  a  10  per  cent  salt  solution 
is  about  — 5°C.  This  is  shown  at  point  X,  where  the  freezing-point  line 
AB  cuts  the  line  indicating  a  10  per  cent  salt  solution.  If  the  salt  solution 
is  cooled  to  — 5°C.  some  of  the  water  freezes.  This  leaves  a  greater  con- 
centration of  salt  than  10  per  cent  in  the  rest  of  the  solution.  Thus  the 
freezing  point  of  the  rest  of  the  solution  is  lowered.  If  cooling  of  the 
solution  is  continued,  ice  will  continue  to  form,  and  the  remaining  salt 
solution  will  become  more  concentrated  and  its  freezing  point  lower.  The 
lowering  of  the  freezing  point  can  be  continued  until  the  line  AB  cuts 
the  line  BC.  The  point  B  represents  the  limit  of  the  solubility  of  the 
salt  at  a  temperature  of  — 22°C.  Below  this  temperature  the  salt  and 
water  separate,  both  crystallizing.  This  is  called  the  cryohydric  point. 
Both  the  ice  and  salt  may  be  cooled  to  lower  temperatures  than  — 22°C. 
after  they  are  in  solid  form. 

If  salt  is  mixed  with  water  a  saturated  solution  is  obtained  when  the 
solution  contains  35.6  grams  of  salt  per  100  grams  of  solution  at  0°C. 
If  this  solution  is  cooled  below  0°C.  the  solubility  of  the  salt  is  not  so 
great  at  the  lower  temperatures.  This  is  shown  on  the  line  CB.  A  little 
below  0°C.  salt  combines  with  2  molecules  of  water.  Thus  the  slope  of  the 


86 


FREEZING 


curve  for  solubility  of  salt  changes  below  0°C.,  and  the  salt  is  found  in 
solution  as  the  dihydrate.  If  a  saturated  salt  solution  is  cooled  below  0°C. 
the  excess  salt  beyond  saturation  point  is  precipitated  from  solution.  This 
will  continue  until  the  cryohydric  point  is  reached. 

Salt  is  often  added  to  ice  for  a  freezing  mixture.  When  salt  is  added 
to  water  and  ice  at  0°C.  they  are  not  in  equilibrium,  even  if  the  sur- 
roundings are  at  0°C.,  for  the  addition  of  salt  lowers  the  freezing  point 
of  the  solution.  Since  they  are  not  in  equilibrium  the  ice  melts  and  the  salt 
dissolves  in  the  water.  There  is  always  a  film  of  water  on  the  surface 
of  the  ice.  As  the  salt  dissolves  in  this  small  amount  of  water  it  absorbs 
heat.  This  absorbed  heat  is  taken  from  the  brine  or  from  the  surround- 


^  -10 

o 

u 
V 
D- 

E 

H-20 


-30 


A 

^ 

\ 

A" 

N 

\y 

•/ 

10 


30 


40 


20 

Per  Cent  NaCl 
Fig.    13. — The    freezing    point    of    solutions    containing    different    percentages    of 
sodium  chloride  and  the  solubility  of  sodium  chloride  below  0°C. 


ings.  If  the  heat  is  taken  from  the  brine  the  temperature  of  the  brine 
is  lowered. 

When  salt  is  added  to  ice,  one  of  three  things  may  happen,  depending 
upon  the  proportion  of  ice  and  salt,  and  the  surrounding  temperature  or 
insulation.  All  the  salt  may  be  dissolved.  When  this  happens  the  melting 
of  the  ice  lessens  the  concentration  of  the  salt  solution  and  the  tempera- 
ture is  not  lowered  beyond  the  point  obtained  when  the  solution  con- 
tains the  highest  concentration  of  salt.  All  the  ice  may  melt.  When  the  ice 
is  melted  the  temperature  cannot  be  lowered  to  a  greater  extent,  for 
there  is  no  more  ice  to  melt  to  absorb  the  heat.  The  cryohydric  point  may 
be  reached.  At  this  point  the  solution  becomes  solid  and  separates  into 
ice  and  salt. 

Ice-cream  freezers.  An  ice-and-salt  mixture  is  used  to  lower  the 
temperature  of  other  substances.  An  ice-cream  freezer  is  a  utensil  made 
to  freeze  a  substance  placed  in  a  center  metal  container.  Outside  this  metal 


TWO  PROCEDURES  USED  IN  FREEZING  87 

container  there  is  a  space  in  which  the  cooling  medium  is  placed.  The  outer 
wall  of  the  ice-cream  freezer  is  often  of  wood,  which  is  a  poor  conductor 
of  heat.  Since  it  conducts  heat  slowly  it  partially  insulates  the  ice  and 
salt  from  the  surrounding  air.  The  freezing  mixture  absorbs  heat.  In 
doing  this  it  lowers  the  temperature  of  the  brine  and  removes  heat  from 
the  contents  of  the  center  can.  In  order  to  freeze  the  contents  of  the  can 
the  temperature  of  the  brine  formed  must  be  lower  than  the  freezing  point 
of  the  mixture  to  be  frozen. 

To  freeze  the  contents  of  the  ice-cream  can,  considerable  heat  must  be 
removed  from  it.  As  a  result,  a  corresponding  amount  of  ice  must  melt  to 
absorb  the  heat.  Therefore,  the  contents  of  the  can  do  not  begin  to  freeze 
until  considerable  brine  has  formed.  Conduction  of  heat  is  more  rapid  by 
water  than  by  air.  Before  the  brine  forms  and  replaces  the  air  spaces  around 
the  ice,  conduction  of  heat  from  the  can  is  slow.  After  all  the  salt  is  dis- 
solved or  all  the  ice  is  melted,  the  temperature  of  the  brine  cannot  be 
lowered,  unless  the  temperature  of  the  surrounding  air  is  lower  than  the 
temperature  of  the  brine.  In  ice-cream  making  the  temperature  of  the  sur- 
roundings is  usually  much  higher  than  the  temperature  of  the  brine. 
When  the  quantity  of  ice  left  in  the  freezer  is  small  the  temperature  of  the 
surrounding  air  may  heat  the  brine  more  than  the  melting  of  the  small 
amount  of  ice  cools  it.  Before  this  stage  is  reached  the  freezer  needs  fresh 
ice  and  salt  packed  around  it. 

The  lowest  temperature  obtainable  for  a  brine  from  a  salt  and  ice  mix- 
ture is  about  — 22°C.  (Walker  reports  —21°  and  Bigelow  — 22.4°C.) 
This  temperature  is  called  the  cryohydric  point.  If  calcium  chloride  is 
used  with  ice  the  lowest  temperature  obtainable  is  — 55  °C. 

At  the  cryohydric  point  29  parts  of  salt  are  soluble  in  71  parts  of  water. 
No  more  salt  can  be  dissolved  at  this  temperature.  This  proportion  of  salt 
to  ice  is  about  1  to  3  and  is  often  used  in  freezing  mixtures. 

Ice  in  the  refrigerator  is  probably  about  0°C.,  but  ice  from  out  of 
doors  on  a  cold  winter  day  may  have  a  temperature  far  below  0°C.  When 
ice  at  a  very  low  temperature  is  used  for  freezing,  a  brine  will  form  more 
quickly  and  freezing  start  sooner  if  water  is  poured  over  the  ice  and  salt. 

Proportion  of  Ice  and  Salt  for  Freezing  and  Packing 

Rate  at  which  the  temperature  is  lowered.  The  rate  at  which  the 
temperature  of  the  brine  and  thus  also  that  of  the  mix  to  be  frozen  is 
lowered  depends  on  the  proportion  of  ice  and  salt,  and  on  the  fineness 
of  division  of  the  ice  and  salt.  Small  pieces  of  ice  provide  greater  surface 
and  thus  melt  faster  than  large  pieces.  Fine  salt  dissolves  more  quickly  than 
coarse  salt,  but  a  fine  table  salt  is  likely  to  lump.  Crushed  rock  salt  is  good 
to  use. 

Two  procedures  are  used  in  freezing.  The  smooth,  velvety  texture 
of  ice  cream  and  ices  depends  on  several  factors.  One  important  factor  is 


88  FREEZING 

the  size  of  the  crystals  formed.  The  proportion  of  ingredients,  their  treat- 
ment, and  the  incorporation  of  air  bubbles  into  the  mixture  while  it  is 
freezing  are  also  important.  Small  crystals  may  be  obtained  by  the  quick- 
freezing  method.  A  very  low  temperature  is  used,  the  mass  being  frozen 
so  rapidly  that  many  nuclei  are  formed  and  there  is  little  crystal  growth 
because  of  the  short  time.  This  process  is  easier  to  use  commercially  than 
in  the  home,  because  of  the  very  low  temperature  employed  for  freezing. 
Judging  from  reports  in  the  ice-cream  trade  journals,  it  is  successful  in 
some  instances  and  not  in  others. 

The  other  procedure  is  to  freeze  at  a  slower  rate,  depending  on  agita- 
tion to  form  many  nuclei.  Air  is  incorporated  in  the  mix  in  both  processes. 
A  temperature  of  — 8°  to  — 10°C.  is  sufficiently  low  to  freeze  most  ice 
creams,  sherbets,  and  ices.  For  home  freezing,  1  part  of  salt  to  8  of  ice 
is  a  good  proportion.  Commercially,  1  part  of  salt  to  12  of  ice  is  often 
used.  Washburn  states  that  a  proportion  of  1  part  of  salt  to  40  parts  of  ice 
will  freeze  if  given  ample  time.  The  air  globules  are  retained  in  the  mixture 
better  after  it  has  nearly  reached  the  freezing  point.  The  air  is  beaten 
in  by  the  dasher  paddles.  In  freezing  very  rapidly  there  is  not  time  to 
incorporate  as  much  air  as  when  the  mix  is  frozen  at  a  somewhat  slower 
rate. 

Packing  the  freezer.  Commercially  most  ice  cream  is  now  held  in 
mechanically  operated  freezing  units  or  rooms,  although  the  same  propor- 
tions of  ice  and  salt  may  be  used  for  packing  that  are  used  for  freezing. 
For  home-made  ice  cream  the  same  proportion  of  ice  and  salt  may  be  used 
as  for  home  freezing,  or  about  1  of  salt  to  8  of  ice.  In  packing,  the  ice 
should  be  pressed  down  tight  in  the  can.  This  will  force  the  surplus  water 
out  of  the  opening  in  the  container.  If  the  water  is  drained  off  it  only  takes 
a  longer  time  for  the  brine  to  form  again,  and  cooling  is  slower.  A  little  salt 
should  be  added  to  the  ice  left  in  the  freezer  before  the  new  ice  is  added. 
For  home-made  ice  cream  that  is  hot  to  stand  very  long  before  serving,  a 
larger  quantity  of  salt  may  be  used  to  advantage.  This  will  cause  the 
temperature  to  drop  quickly  and  hardening  of  the  cream  will  take  place 
more  rapidly. 

The  ice  and  salt  may  be  mixed  together  before  putting  in  the  freezer, 
but  a  better  way  of  packing  is  to  fill  the  freezer  half  full  of  ice,  then 
add  a  layer  of  salt.  The  ice  and  salt  are  then  added  in  alternate  layers  until 
the  top  is  reached.  The  water  from  the  melting  ice  w^ashes  the  salt  towards 
the  bottom  of  the  freezer,  and  once  it  reaches  the  bottom  it  is  of  small 
use  for  cooling  purposes.  Therefore,  it  is  preferable  to  pack  the  freezer 
with  the  salt  towards  the  top. 

Mousse.  For  packing  home-made  mousse,  the  proportion  of  salt  to 
ice  must  be  large,  1  to  3  or  even  1  to  2.  Whipped  cream  which  has  air 
beaten  into  it  is  added  to  a  mousse.  The  mousse  is  molded  and  often  is  not 
stirred  while  freezing,  although  it  may  be  stirred  very  slowly.  Heat  or 
cold  penetrates  more  slowly  to  the  center  of  a  mixture  that  is  not  stirred. 


FAT  89 

In  addition,  the  air  and  the  high  fat  content  of  the  whipped  cream  are 
poor  conductors  of  heat  and  cold.  Thus  a  mousse  requires  a  low  tempera- 
ture and  long  time  to  cool.  The  ice  and  salt  may  need  to  be  repacked 
unless  set  where  the  air  is  cold. 

The  Composition  of  Ice  Cream 

A  simple  home-made  ice  cream  may  be  made  with  cream,  sugar,  and 
flavoring.  Flavoring  is  added  to  increase  the  palatability.  The  flavoring  may 
be  extracts,  fruit,  or  nuts.  Sometimes  egg  is  added  to  home-made  ice  cream. 
Cream  containing  17  to  20  per  cent  butter  fat,  or  if  not  homogenized, 
22  per  cent  fat,  gives  a  good  home-made  ice  cream.  Washburn  states  that 
the  weight  of  sugar  added  may  be  one-sixth  of  the  weight  of  the  cream. 
Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  cream  gives  about  this 
proportion,  and  this  produces  an  average  sweetness.  The  serum  solids 
usually  average  about  6  per  cent  in  home-made  ice  cream. 

Sommer  states  that  a  good  commercial  ice  cream  is  obtained  with  the 
following  proportions: 


Fat 

12.5% 

Serum  solids 

10.0 

Sugar 

16.0 

Gelatin 

0.25  to    0.50 

Egg  yolk  solids 

0.50 

Total  solids         39 .  25  to  39 .  50% 

Sommer  also  states  that  a  richer  ice  cream  has  not  proved  generally 
successful  because  of  the  higher  cost,  but  is  preferred  by  many  consumers. 
In  the  richer  cream  the  fat  is  increased  to  16  per  cent  and  the  serum  solids 
reduced  to  8  per  cent.  Although  Sommer  recommends  the  egg  yolk  solids, 
many  manufacturers  omit  them.  Gelatin,  called  a  binder,  is  used  to  prevent 
coarse  crystallization.  Commercial  ice  cream  must  have  condensed-milk  or 
dry-milk  products  added  to  raise  the  serum  solids  to  8  or  10  per  cent. 

The  milk  solids  include  the  butter  fat,  the  milk  proteins,  the  milk  sugar, 
and  the  ash;  serum  solids  exclude  the  fat;  total  solids  of  ice  cream  include 
the  milk  solids  and  the  added  sugar.  The  total  solids  vary,  but  Sommer 
states  they  should  not  exceed  41  per  cent.  Each  of  the  ingredients  of  the 
milk  and  also  the  added  sugar  has  an  effect  on  the  body  and  the  texture 
of  the  ice  cream.  The  ingredients  likewise  affect  the  flavor. 

The  Flavor  of  the  Ice  Cream 

Fat.  The  flavor  of  the  ice  cream  is  influenced  by  the  ingredients  that 
go  into  it.  They  should  be  free  of  foreign  odors  and  flavors.  Ambrose  states 
that  "increase  in  butter  fat  gives  the  richness  of  flavor  that  can  be  ob- 
tained in  no  other  way." 


90  FREEZING 

Williams  and  Campbell  conducted  experiments  in  ice-cream  making  in 
which  the  fat  content  was  varied:  creams  were  made  with  12,  15,  and 
18  per  cent  fat,  the  other  constituents  remaining  the  same,  and  the  method 
of  making  being  kept  uniform  in  each  experiment.  Purchasers  were  al- 
lowed to  sample  the  three  ice  creams  on  the  first  day  and  on  the  following 
day  could  purchase  their  choice.  The  records  showed  that  80  per  cent 
of  the  purchasers  favored  the  ice  cream  containing  18  per  cent  fat,  10.4 
per  cent  favored  the  ice  cream  containing  15  per  cent  fat,  and  7.6  per  cent 
of  the  purchasers  favored  the  ice  cream  containing  12  per  cent  fat. 

Salt.  Salt  may  be  added  to  ice  cream,  and  for  some  persons  the  flavor  is 
thereby  improved.  It  is  so  easy  to  add  too  much  that  it  is  often  better  to 
omit  it.  A  good  proportion  to  use  is  about  3^  teaspoon  of  salt  per  gallon 
of  mixture. 

Acidity.  Acidity  of  the  cream  affects  the  flavor.  The  acidity  of  milk 
and  cream  increases  with  age.  An  acidity  of  0.30  per  cent  produces  an 
apparent  sour  taste;  that  usually  preferred  for  ice  cream  is  from  0.16  to 
0.20  per  cent. 

Sugar.  Williams  and  Campbell  in  experiments  with  ice  cream,  con- 
ducted like  those  just  referred  to  with  the  fat,  but  in  which  the  percentage 
of  sugar  varied,  found  that  61.4,  28.4,  and  10.2  per  cent  of  the  purchasers 
showed  a  preference  for  the  19,  16,  and  13  per  cent  sugar,  respectively. 
This  gives  a  total  of  90  per  cent  favoring  the  ice  cream  with  16  or  more 
per  cent  of  sugar. 

Serum  solids  not  fat.  Similar  experiments  with  serum  solids  not  fat 
showed  that  55.6,  25,  and  18.6  per  cent  of  the  purchasers  favored  the  ice 
cream  containing  12,  9,  and  6  per  cent  of  serum  solids,  respectively. 

In  regard  to  gelatin,  63.2,  13.8,  and  23  per  cent  of  the  purchasers 
favored  the  ice  cream  containing  1,  0.5,  and  0  per  cent  of  gelatin,  respec- 
tively. 

Fisher  states  that  the  serum  solids  do  not  affect  the  flavor  until  a  content 
of  12  per  cent  and  beyond  is  reached.  To  obtain  this  amount  of  serum 
solids,  condensed-milk  or  dry-milk  products  must  be  used.  With  12  per 
cent  or  greater  a  condensed-milk  flavor  is  imparted  to  the  ice  cream.  Fisher 
also  states  that  butter  fat  improves  the  flavor  slowly. 

Sandy  ice  cream.  When  too  great  an  amount  of  condensed  milk  is 
added,  there  is  danger  of  the  lactose  crystallizing  at  the  low  temperatures 
in  the  holding  room.  When  the  lactose  crystallizes,  a  sandy  or  gritty  tex- 
ture is  imparted  to  the  ice  cream.  Such  ice  cream  is  called  sandy.  Leighton 
and  Peter  have  reported  that  lactose  does  not  usually  give  sandiness  to  the 
ice  cream  unless  the  concentration  of  serum  solids  is  high,  i.e.,  about 
12  per  cent  or  more.  The  lactose  may  crystallize  in  the  ice  cream  when  the 
percentage  of  lactose  is  6  per  cent  or  more. 

Flavoring.  Flavoring  is  added  to  the  ice  cream.  Too  little  flavoring 
to  blend  with  the  cream  and  sugar  gives  a  flat  taste;  too  much  makes  the 
flavoring  the  only  ingredient  evident  to  the  taste.  Dahle  states  that  *'Noth- 


INCORPORATING  CHOCOLATE  OR  FRUIT  91 

ing  is  to  be  gained  by  the  use  of  cheap  flavors."  Crushed  fruit,  fruit  juices, 
and  nuts  are  also  used  to  flavor  ice  cream. 

The  Body  and  Texture  of  Ice  Cream  ^_ 

By  body,  the  v^rhole  mass  of  ice  cream  is  referred  to — its  firmness, 
its  resistance;  texture  refers  to  the  finer  particles  of  the  ice  cream. 

Effect  of  fat  on  texture.  High  butter  fat  produces  a  firm  body,  for 
the  chilled  fat  particles  are  very  firm.  Too  much  fat  produces  a  very  hard 
ice  cream.  Fillers  are  sometimes  used  to  give  a  better  body.  In  home-made 
ice  cream  when  little  cream  is  used,  egg  may  be  added  to  produce  a  firmer 
body,  and  to  add  flavor. 

Effect  of  proteins  on  texture.  The  milk  solids  not  fat  and  the 
protein  content  particularly  affect  the  body  of  the  ice  cream.  The  casein 
and  albumin  of  milk  are  found  as  calcium  and  magnesium  caseinates  and 
albuminates  in  the  milk.  As  such  they  imbibe  water  and  swell.  With  too 
little  protein  the  body  has  little  resistance,  and  with  too  much  protein  its 
hydration  produces  a  very  soggy,  heavy  ice  cream.  Mortensen  states  that 
high  serum  solids  give  a  smooth  mix  for  they  absorb  the  water,  but 
their  use  can  be  carried  to  an  extreme.  He  adds  that  those  who  do  not 
use  a  high  percentage  of  serum  solids  must  pay  more  attention  to  the 
treatment  of  the  mix.  Combs  and  Martin  concluded  that  a  certain  amount 
of  acidity  produces  a  finished  appearance  in  the  mix.  They  have  found  that 
too  high  acidity  causes  the  ice  cream  to  melt  quickly,  since  the  reaction  is 
brought  nearer  the  isoelectric  point  of  casein  and  at  the  isoelectric  point 
very  little  water  is  held  by  casein. 

Effect  of  treatment  of  the  mix  on  texture.  Any  treatment  of  the 
ingredients  of  the  ice  cream  or  of  the  mix  itself  that  increases  the  viscosity 
affects  the  body  and  texture  of  the  ice  cream.  Pasteurization,  homogeniza- 
tion,  and  aging  all  affect  the  viscosity  and  will  be  discussed  later.  Though 
the  texture  of  the  ice  cream,  like  the  body,  is  affected  by  the  ingredients 
used  and  their  proportions,  it  is  also  affected  to  a  greater  extent  than  the 
body  by  the  freezing  process.  The  texture  of  ice  cream  depends  largely 
on  the  size  of  the  crystals  and  the  amount  of  air  incorporated  during 
freezing. 

Incorporating  chocolate  or  fruit.  Some  special  problem  studies  have 
indicated  that  the  temperature  at  which  the  chocolate  is  combined  with  the 
other  ingredients  is  the  most  important  factor  in  obtaining  a  uniform  color 
and  not  a  speckled  product.  The  temperature  at  which  the  chocolate  is 
combined,  at  least  with  a  portion  of  the  ingredients,  should  be  above  the 
melting  point  of  the  chocolate.  The  chocolate  may  be  added  to  a  portion 
of  the  milk  which  has  been  warmed  or  made  into  a  sirup.  Martin  advises 
that  the  chocolate  be  made  into  a  sirup  with  the  sugar  and  a  portion  of 
the  milk. 


92  FREEZING 

Fruit,  such  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  and  peaches,  may  be  put  through 
a  sieve  before  adding  to  the  mix.  If  larger  pieces  of  fruit  are  desired,  they 
can  be  prevented  from  freezing  into  chunks  of  ice  by  letting  them  stand 
for  some  time,  or  over  night,  in  a  heavy  sirup.  The  sugar  entering  the 
berries  or  fruit  lowers  the  freezing  point  of  the  fruit,  so  that  it  does  not 
freeze  or  is  less  hard.  To  keep  the  fruit  as  whole  as  possible,  the  sirup 
should  be  added  to  the  cream  mix.  Then  the  fruit  is  added  after  the  cream 
is  in  a  soft  frozen  state. 

The  freezing  process.  If  the  ice-cream  mix  has  not  been  cooled 
before  it  is  put  in  the  freezer  it  is  better  to  turn  the  freezer  slowly  until 
the  mix  is  cooled.  If  the  freezer  is  turned  rapidly  while  the  mix  is  at  a 
temperature  above  4.5°C.  or  40°F.  the  butter  fat  is  clumped  together  and 
a  buttery  product  results.  If  carried  far  enough,  butter  may  even  be 
churned  in  the  mix.  The  mix  does  not  hold  the  air  incorporated  in  it  until 
its  temperature  is  cooled  to  about  1°C.  or  34°F.,  so  that  rapid  turning  is 
of  no  advantage  from  this  standpoint  until  the  mix  is  cooled.  With  a 
freezer  turned  by  hand,  if  the  freezer  is  turned  rapidly  all  the  time,  one's 
energy  is  often  expended  before  the  freezing  is  finished,  and  it  is  during 
the  latter  part  of  the  freezing  period  that  the  turning  should  be  rapid.  The 
size  of  the  crystals  formed  during  freezing  depends  upon  the  rate  of  turn- 
ing of  the  freezer  and  the  length  of  time  of  the  freezing  process.  Stirring 
the  solution  during  crystallization  increases  the  number  of  nuclei  formed, 
and  the  resulting  crystals  are  smaller  than  if  the  mixture  is  not  stirred. 
If  the  ice  cream  is  not  stirred  during  freezing,  few  nuclei  are  formed,  the 
water  crystals  join  onto  each  other,  and  a  product  with  very  coarse,  large, 
spiny  crystals  is  the  result.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  ice  cream  is  stirred 
the  size  of  the  crystals  depends  upon  the  rate  of  turning.  Very  slow  turn- 
ing while  freezing  is  in  progress  results  in  larger  crystals;  rapid  turning 
results  in  smaller  crystals.  If  the  freezer  is  turned  very  slowly  the  crystals 
build  onto  the  crystals  already  formed ;  with  rapid  turning  many  new 
crystals  are  developed.  The  time  of  the  freezing  process  also  affects  the 
size  of  the  crystals.  If  the  crystals  are  formed  very  rapidly,  too  little  air  is 
mixed  with  the  cream,  which  produces  an  ice  cream  without  a  velvety 
texture.  Since  rapid  freezing  occurs  with  low  temperatures  it  is  better  not 
to  have  the  temperature  of  the  brine  too  low,  thus  1  part  of  salt  to  8  parts 
of  ice  produces  good  results. 

Overrun.  The  addition  of  air  to  the  ice  cream  during  freezing  causes 
it  to  swell  so  that  the  ice  cream  increases  in  bulk.  This  increase  is  known 
as  the  swell  or  overrun. 

This  swell  or  overrun  due  to  the  incorporation  of  air  particles  gives  a 
smoother,  more  velvety  texture  to  the  ice  cream.  Mortensen  states  that  it  is 
preferable  to  have  the  air  cells  in  the  finished  cream  small,  for  the  strength 
of  the  film  of  a  small  air  cell  is  stronger  than  that  of  a  large  one.  To 
obtain  small  air  cells  in  the  ice  cream  the  mix  should  be  viscid.  A  viscid 


PERCENTAGE  OVERRUN 


93 


substance  resists  incorporation  of  air,  and  it  will  be  worked  in  in  finer 
divided  portions.  With  increased  viscosity  the  air  is  held  in  the  mix  better 
after  it  is  incorporated.  Mortensen  includes  homogenization  as  an  impor- 
tant factor  in  increasing  the  viscosity  of  the  ice-cream  mix. 

As  the  swell  in  freezing  improves  the  texture,  it  is  desirable  to  obtain 
it  in  home-made  ice  cream.  In  the  home-made  ice  cream  the  freezer  is 
often  filled  so  full  that  there  is  no  room  for  overrun  and  no  air  is  beaten 
into  the  ice  cream  during  freezing.  Filling  the  freezer  two-thirds  to  three- 
fourths  full  gives  good  results  for  home-made  ice  cream.  In  home  freezing 
the  overrun  obtained  is  seldom  as  great  as  with  commercial  ice  creams, 
for  the  freezing  conditions  in  the  home  are  not  controlled  so  carefully  as 
in  the  factory. 

Too  great  an  overrun  produces  an  ice  cream  of  poor  body  and  quality, 
for  it  becomes  very  frothy  and  foamy.  An  overrun  of  50  per  cent  is  con- 
sidered to  give  a  desirable  texture. 

Percentage  overrun.  The  percentage  of  overrun  depends  upon  the 
speed  of  freezing  and  rate  of  turning. 

TABLE  12 

Effect  of  the  Speed  of  the  Machine  on  Overrun  (Baer) 


Revolutions  per 
minute 

Overrun 

Time  of  freezing 

Lot  I 

Lot  II 

Lot  I 

Lot  II 

50 
50 
50 
150 
150 
150 
175 
175 
175 

25 
28 
25 
48 
48 
50 
45 
50 
52 

33 
33 
35 
43 
39 
40 
58 
50 
55 

10 

11 

9 

7 
8 

7.5 
7 

7.5 
8 

11 
10 
12 

7 

5 

6 

6 

6.5 

6 

The  above  table,  from  Baer's  results,  shows  the  effects  of  the  speed  of 
the  machine  on  the  overrun.  He  concluded  that  50  revolutions  per  minute 
were  too  slow,  as  the  overrun  was  too  low,  the  texture  of  the  ice  cream 
was  coarse,  and  the  body  weak  and  spiny. 

From  the  table  it  will  also  be  noted  that  increasing  the  speed  of  the 
freezer  shortens  the  freezing  time.  The  first  crystals  are  formed  at  the 
edge  of  the  ice-cream  mix  and  against  the  side  of  the  metal  container. 
The  faster  speed  of  turning  keeps  these  crystals  scraped  away  and  brings 
warmer  portions  of  the  mix  against  the  can  to  be  frozen.  In  this  way  the 


94  FREEZING 

whole  mass  is  chilled  and  frozen  more  rapidly  than  it  would  be  if  the 
mix  were  not  stirred. 

For  home  freezing  it  is  probably  better  to  over-freeze  a  little  but  not 
too  much,  if  the  ice  cream  is  to  be  served  soon  after  it  is  frozen.  After 
stirring  is  stopped  the  rate  of  cooling  is  slower.  Therefore  it  requires  a 
period  of  standing  after  the  freezing  process  is  completed  for  the  ice 
cream  to  harden  suitably  for  serving.  Increasing  the  quantity  of  salt  for 
packing  also  increases  the  rate  at  which  the  ice  cream  hardens. 

The  Factors  Affecting  the  Viscosity  of  Cream 
and  Ice  Cream 

Aging.  Sherwood  and  Smallfield  have  reported  that  in  some  cases 
aging  shows  an  increase  in  viscosity  of  the  cream  whereas  in  others  it  does 
not.  When  the  viscosity  is  increased  the  fat  globules  are  larger  and  clump. 
They  have  found  that  agitation  of  the  cream  reduces  the  size  of  the  fat 
globules  and  the  viscosity  of  the  cream.  Mortensen  states  that  cream 
just  separated  from  fresh  milk  should  be  aged  24  hours  before  it  is  used 
in  ice  cream,  even  if  it  is  not  pasteurized.  Aging  also  gives  a  cream  that 
whips  better.  The  viscosity  of  a  cream  increases  noticeably  for  about  6 
hours  after  it  is  separated  and  then  increases  at  a  slower  rate. 

Homogenization.  Williams  lists  the  benefits  of  homogenization,  as 
applied  to  ice  cream,  under  6  heads  as  follows: 

1.  Increased  viscosity. 

2.  Reduction  in  time  required  for  aging. 

3.  Less  physical  and  mechanical  loss  of  fat. 

4.  Better  whipping  qualities. 

5.  Better  freezing  qualities. 

6.  Greater  uniformity  and  palatability. 

Ice  cream  made  from  homogenized  cream  is  smoother  and  has  smaller 
crystals.  In  homogenization  of  the  cream  the  fat  globules  are  broken  up. 
As  the  size  of  the  globules  is  decreased  the  surface  area  increases.  The 
fat  globules  are  surrounded  by  a  film  of  protein.  After  homogenization, 
owing  to  the  increased  surface,  a  larger  amount  of  protein  is  held  in  the 
film  around  the  fat  particles.  The  increase  in  the  number  of  the  fat  globules 
and  the  protein  held  in  the  film  increases  the  viscosity  of  the  cream. 
After  homogenization  the  cream  should  not  be  agitated.  The  higher  the 
pressure  used  during  homogenization,  the  greater  the  viscosity  obtained  in 
the  cream. 

With  homogenized  cream,  less  fat  and  less  milk  solids  not  fat  can  be  used 
and  a  texture  obtained  that  is  as  good  as  that  from  an  unhomogenized 
cream  with  higher  fat  content  and  with  higher  milk  solids. 

Pasteurization.  Pasteurization  decreases  the  viscosity  of  the  cream. 
Cream  needs  to  be  aged  after  pasteurization  before  it  is  used  in  ice  cream. 


HOME-MADE  ICES  AND  SHERBETS  95 


The  Use  of  Gelatin  in  Ice  Cream 

Gelatin  is  used  in  ice  cream  to  prevent  the  formation  of  coarse  crystals, 
during  softening  and  hardening  of  ice  cream  packed  in  an  ice-and-salt 
mixture,  while  it  is  held  for  selling.  Holdway  and  Reynolds  have  demon- 
strated that  gelatin  in  ice  cream  prevents  it  from  losing  its  shape  while  it 
is  melting. 

Sugar  in  Ice  Cream 

Sugar  is  used  for  sweetening  the  ice  cream.  It  increases  the  total  solids, 
thus  improving  the  body.  Too  high  a  percentage  lowers  the  overrun  and 
gives  an  ice  cream  that  is  too  sweet. 

Sucrose  is  used  in  ice  cream.  Other  sugars  may  be  used,  such  as  invert 
sugar  from  sucrose,  corn  sugar,  and  levulose.  Since  the  commercial  levulose 
is  too  expensive,  honey  may  be  used.  Corn  sugar  or  dextrose  is  not  so  sweet 
as  sucrose  and  therefore  can  be  substituted  successfully  for  only  about  25 
to  35  per  cent  of  the  sucrose  in  ice  cream. 

Making  Ice  Cream  in  Refrigerators  at  Home 

Ice  cream  may  be  held  as  well  as  frozen  in  mechanical  refrigerators. 
When  frozen  in  them  the  ice  cream  often  does  not  have  a  good  texture 
because  it  is  not  stirred  sufficiently  during  the  freezing  process.  Some  units 
have  been  made  that  stir  the  mixture  while  it  is  freezing  but  they  are  not 
common.  However,  quite  acceptable  ices,  sherbets,  and  even  ice  cream  may 
be  made  by  adding  substances,  such  as  egg  white  or  whipped  cream,  that 
tend  to  delay  crystal  growth.  Beaten  egg  white  is  best  for  ices  and  sherbets, 
because  this  product  is  more  typical  of  an  ice  or  sherbet  texture  than  the 
product  formed  by  adding  rich  whipped  cream.  A  good  time  to  add  the 
beaten  egg  white  to  ices  is  just  as  the  mixture  starts  to  freeze,  for  the 
stirring  at  this  time  aids  in  the  formation  of  more  nuclei.  Whipped  cream 
may  be  added  before  or  after  the  mixture  is  placed  in  the  refrigerator  tray, 
depending  on  the  type  of  product  to  which  it  is  added. 

Ice-Cream  Improvers 

The  published  results  of  Isenberg  and  Baer,  on  the  use  of  ice-cream 
improvers  in  commercial  products,  indicates  that  they  would  be  of  prac- 
tically no  benefit  in  home-made  ice  cream. 

Home-Made  Ices  and  Sherbets 

Ices  and  sherbets  have  a  lower  freezing  point  than  ice  cream,  for  they 
usually  contain  a  greater  quantity  of  sugar.  The  use  of  gelatin  and  egg 


96  FREEZING 

white  in  home-made  ices  seems  to  improve  the  texture  in  some  instances, 
but  in  others  to  have  little  effect.  When  the  hot  sirup  is  poured  over  the 
beaten  egg  white  the  results  obtained  are  as  good  as  when  the  beaten  egg 
white  is  added  during  the  freezing  process. 

The  sherbets  in  which  milk  and  fruit  juices  are  combined  give  delightful- 
flavored  products  for  home  freezing. 

Classification  of  Ice  Creams 

Various  classifications  of  frozen  products  have  been  proposed.  Sommer 
gives  the  following  classification  of  ice  cream  and  related  frozen  products : 

1.  Plain  Ice  Cream  6.  Parfait  or  New  York  Ice  Cream 

2.  Nut  Ice  Cream  7.  Puddings 

3.  Fruit  Ice  Cream  8.  Custards 

4.  Bisque  Ice  Cream  9.  Ices 

5.  iVIousse  10.  Sherbets 

Sommer  stresses  that  classification  is  based  on  composition  rather  than 
ingredients  used. 

Plain  or  Philadelphia  ice  cream  has  ingredients  and  composition  as 
previously  given  for  commercial  ice  cream.  It  may  be  flavored  with  a 
variety  of  flavors,  such  as  vanilla,  chocolate,  maple. 

Nut  or  fruit  ice  creams  are  plain  ice  cream  with  nuts  or  fruit  added. 

Bisque  is  made  from  a  plain  cream  basis  with  such  additions  as  maca- 
roons, grape  nuts,  dried  and  broken  sponge  cake,  or  marshmallows. 

A  mousse  has  a  whipped  cream  base. 

Parfait,  or  New  York  ice  cream,  is  made  from  the  same  ingredients  as 
plain  cream  except  the  amount  of  egg  used  is  sufficient  to  produce  a  dis- 
tinctly yellow  color.  In  some  states  the  amount  of  egg  yolk  is  specified. 

Puddings  differ  from  fruit  ice  cream  in  containing  a  mixture  of  fruits 
and  to  justify  the  name  pudding  should  have  eggs  in  amounts  similar  to 
New  York  ice  cream. 

Ices  are  made  from  fruit  juices  diluted  with  water  and  sweetened. 

Sherbets  are  made  from  the  same  ingredients  as  ices  with  the  exception 
that  milk,  cream,  or  ice  cream  is  used  in  place  of  part  or  all  of  the  water 
to  dilute  the  fruit  juices. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Ambrose,  A.  S.     Milk  Solids  in  Relation  to  the  Quality  of  Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream 

Trade  J.   20:  No.   3,   78    (1924). 
Anonymous.     Acidity  Factor  in  Manufacture  of  Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J. 

19:  No.  8,  39   (1923). 
Anonymous.     How  to  Mix  Ice  and  Salt  Properly.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  9:  No.  4, 

42    (1913). 


REFERENCES  97 

Baer,  A.  C.     Factors  Influencing  the   Swell   in  Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J. 

3:  No.  3,  38    (1917). 
Baer,  A.  C.     Ice  Cream  Making.     Wisconsin  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  Bull.  262   (1916). 
Bigelow,  S.  L.     Theoretical  Physical   Chemistry.     D.  Appleton-Century  Company, 

Inc.   (1921). 
Brainerd,  W.  K.     Smoothness  and  Keeping  Qualities  in  Ice  Cream  as  Affected  by 

Solids.     Virginia  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  Technical  Bulletin  7    (1915). 
Combs,  W.  B.,   and   Bele,  F.     Cerelose  in   Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Review   10:66, 

132  (1926)  ;  also  Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  23:  No.  1,  50   (1927). 
Combs,  W.  B.,   and   Martin,   W.    H.     How   Acidity   Affects   the    Quality   of   Mix. 

Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  19:  No.  11,  75    (1923). 
Dahle,  C.  D.     Some  Ice  Cream  Defects  and  Their  Remedies.     Ice  Cream  Trade 

J.  20:  No.  9,  66   (1924). 
Dahle,  C.  D.    The  Use  and  Values  of  Sugars  in  Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J. 

20:  No.  8,  46    (1924). 
Dahlberg,   A.  C.     How   Ice   Cream  Appears   Under  the  Microscope.     Ice   Cream 

Trade  J.  20:  No.  2,  69    (1924). 
Fisher,  R.  C.     Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  20:  No.  2,  69   (1924). 
Fisher,  R.  C.     Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  20:  No.  3,  71    (1924). 
Holdaway,  C.  W.,  and  Reynolds,  R.  P.     Melting  Time  of  Ice  Cream  Determined. 

Effects  of  Binders  Upon  the  Melting  and  Hardness  of  Ice  Cream.     Ice  Cream 

Trade  J.  13:  No.  1,  25  and  No.  2,  32    (1917). 
Hunziker,  O.  F.,  and  Nissen,  B.  H.    Lactose  Solubility  and  Lactose  Crystal  Forma- 
tion.    J.   Dairy   Sci.   9:   517    (1926). 
Isenberg,  G.  H.,  and  Baer,  A.  C.     Some  Commercial  Ice  Cream  Improvers.     Ice 

Cream  Review    10:  No.    10,    104    (1926). 
Leighton,    A.,    and    Peter,    P.    N.      Factors    Influencing    Crystallization    of    Lactose. 

Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  19:  No.  10,  68a    (1923). 
Martin,  W.  H.     Here  is  How  You  Can  Make  Good   Chocolate  Ice   Cream.     Ice 

Cream  Trade  J.  31:  19,   No.   3    (1935). 
Masurovsky,    B.   I.      Newer   Knowledge   of    Use    of    Gelatin    in    Ice    Cream.      Ice 

Cream  Trade  J.  20:  No.  3,  81    (1924). 
Mortensen,  M.     Factors  Which  Influence  the  Yield  and  Consistency  of  Ice  Cream. 

Iowa  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  Bull.  180    (1918). 
Mortensen,  M.     Overrun     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  11:  No.  2,  32   (1915). 
Mortensen,    M.      Some    Factors    Responsible    for    Desirable    Texture.      Ice   Cream 

Trade  J.  20:  No.  4,  74  (1924). 
Ruehe,  H.  A.     Factors  which  Produce  Quality.     Ice  Cream  Trade  J.  20:  No.   3, 

74   (1924). 
Sherwood,  F.  F.,  and  Smallfield,  H.  L.     Factors  Influencing  the  Viscosity  of  Cream 

and  Ice  Cream.    J.  Dairy  Sci.  9:  68   (1926). 
Sommer,   H.   H.     The  Theory  and   Practice  of   Ice   Cream   Making.     Second   Ed. 

Published  by  the  author,  Madison,  Wis.    (1935). 
Sommer,  H.  H.,  and  Young,  D.  M.     Effect  of  Milk  Salts  on  the  Whipping  Ability 

of  Ice  Cream  Mixes.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  18:  865   (1926). 
Turnbow,   G.   D.,   and   Milner,   F.   W.     The   Role   of   Gelatin   in   Ice   Cream.     J. 

Dairy  Sci.  10:  202    (1927). 
Walker,  J.     Introduction  to  Physical  Chemistry.     Macmillan  Co.     London    (1922). 
Washburn,  R.  M.     Principles  and  Practice  of  Ice  Cream  Making.     Vermont  Expt. 

Sta.  Bull.  155    (1910). 
Williams,  O.  E.     Benefits  of  Homogenization  in  Ice  Cream  Making.     Ice  Cream 

Trade  J.  20:  No.  1,  63   (1924). 
Williams,  O.  E.,  and  Campbell,  G.  R.     Effect  of  Composition  on  the  Palatability 

of  Ice  Cream.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.  Dept.  Bull.  1161    (1923). 


98  FREEZING 


FREEZING 

Experiment  11. 

To  determine  the  temperature  of  the  brine  when  different  proportions  of 
ice  and  salt  are  mixed. 

The  ice  for  all  the  freezing  experiments  should  be  in  pieces  of  the  same  size, 
for  the  very  large  pieces  melt  more  slowly  because  of  small  surface  area. 
Put  the  ice  through  the  ice  crusher,  which  gives  pieces  of  more  uniform  size. 
If  it  cannot  be  crushed  in  a  crusher,  but  is  broken  with  a  hammer  or  shaved 
with  a  pick,  put  it  through  a  large-screen  mesh  to  obtain  pieces  of  uniform 
size.  The  temperature  obtained  will  be  only  approximate.  For  very  accurate, 
careful  work  the  temperature  must  be  taken  in  insulated,  closed  flasks. 

1.  Weigh  %.  pound  of  rock  salt  and  an  equal  amount  of  ice.  Mix  well. 
Find  the  minimum  temperature  that  can  be  obtained  with  this  mixture  and 
the  length  of  time  required  to  reach  it. 

Repeat  using  the  following  proportions. 

2.  One  part  of  salt  (>4  lb.)  to  3  of  ice  (>>4  lb.). 

3.  One  part  of  salt  {yi  lb.)  to  6  of  ice  (^  lb.). 

4.  One  part  of  salt  (>^  lb.)  to  8  of  ice  (1  lb.). 

5.  Use  equal  parts  of  sugar  to  ice  {yi  lb.  of  each). 

What  would  the  result  be  if  the  above  experiments  were  repeated  using 
coarse  crystalline  salt  in  place  of  the  rock  salt?  Does  the  sugar  have  the  same 
effect  as  salt?  Why? 


Lowest  temperature 
obtained 


Time  required  to  reach  the  lowest 
temperature 


Conclusions  and  applications. 

Ice  Cream 

Experiment  12. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  the  rate  of  turning  on  the  texture  of  ice  cream. 

Directions  for  freezing  experiments: 

The  freezers  for  the  following  experiments  should  be  in  good  working  order. 
The  dashers  should  turn  and  scrape  the  crystals  from  the  side  of  the  can  as 
they  are  formed. 

To  find  the  approximate  swell  of  the  ice  cream  the  depth  of  the  mixture 
should  be  measured  in  the  can  before  and  after  freezing.  If  the  depth  is  2  inches 
before  freezing  and  3  inches  after  freezing  the  approximate  swell  is  50  per  cent. 
The  frozen  mixture  is  not  level  across  the  top,  so  this  method  gives  only  an 
approximate  measure  of  the  swell. 

Before  the  freezer  is  packed,  the  dasher,  lid,  and  handle  should  be  put  in 


ICE  CREAM  99 

place.  Otherwise  in  packing  the  can  is  often  pushed  to  one  side  and  it  is  difficult 
to  get  the  handle  in  place.  See  that  the  handle  turns  properly. 

Measure  the  approximate  amount  of  ice  and  salt  required  for  your  particu- 
lar experiment.  For  a  freezer  of  1-quart  capacity,  and  using  the  proportions  1 
part  of  salt  to  8  parts  of  ice  by  measure,  about  10  cups  of  ice  are  required 
for  freezing.  This  will  sometimes  pack  or  partially  pack  the  freezer  also. 
Consult  the  instructor  for  the  method  to  use  for  mixing  ice  and  salt  to  place 
in  the  freezer.  More  uniform  results  are  obtained  with  class  work  by  mixing 
the  salt  and  ice  before  placing  in  the  freezer  unless  uniform  methods  of  packing 
are  employed.  The  better  way  of  packing  is  to  measure  the  ice  required  to 
pack  the  freezer  half  way  to  the  top.  Then  add  a  layer  of  salt,  using  ys  of 
the  measure  of  the  ice.  Add  a  layer  of  ice  to  }i  the  distance  from  the  top. 
Add  a  layer  of  salt,  again  using  j^  the  amount  of  the  ice.  Add  ice  nearly  to 
the  top  of  the  can  and  the  same  proportions  of  salt.  If  the  ice  and  salt  are 
not  measured,  different  amounts  will  be  used  for  the  different  groups  and  the 
results  will  not  be  uniform,  for  the  variables  of  the  same  experiments  will 
increase. 

Remove  the  handle  and  lid  after  the  ice  is  packed  and  add  the  mixture  to  be 
frozen.  If  the  freezer  is  the  type  that  will  freeze  with  the  lid  off,  leave  the 
lid  off  and  adjust  the  handle.  By  freezing  in  this  way  the  ice  and  brine  will  not 
come  to  the  top  of  the  can,  but  if  not  more  than  1  cup  of  the  mix  is  used  in 
a  quart  freezer  the  frozen  mixture  will  not  come  more  than  half  way  up  the 
can,  and  the  ice  and  salt  will  be  sufficient  for  freezing. 

Record  the  total  time  of  turning  the  freezer  and  the  time  when  the  first 
crystals  are  formed;  notice  when  the  swell  begins.  Turn  until  the  frozen  mix- 
ture is  the  consistency  of  good  thick  gravy.  Compare  with  your  neighbors'  so 
that  all  will  be  of  the  same  consistency  when  the  freezing  period  is  stopped. 

If  the  freezer  will  not  turn  with  the  lid  removed,  the  end  point  of  the 
freezing  will  need  to  be  determined  by  removing  the  lid.  Compare  with  your 
neighbors'  so  that  as  nearly  as  possible  all  will  be  of  the  same  consistency  when 
the  creams  are  packed.  If  the  lids  of  the  freezers  cannot  be  removed,  neither 
the  swell  nor  the  time  when  the  first  crystals  form  can  be  observed.  Nor  can 
the  time  required  for  freezing  be  estimated  very  accurately.  The  results  are 
less  uniform  with  this  type  of  freezer  and  sometimes  are  not  worth  while. 
Obviously,  if  some  freezers  are  not  in  working  condition  the  results  from  them 
should  not  be  recorded.  If  the  dashers  do  not  work  properly  then  the  results 
can  be  used  for  slow-turning  freezers. 

Remove  the  dasher,  put  on  the  lid,  plug  the  hole  in  the  top  of  the  lid  and 
pack  to  harden.  If  the  period  of  hardening  can  be  only  a  short  one,  a  larger 
proportion  of  salt  to  ice  may  be  used  for  packing.  Consult  the  instructor  for 
the  proportions. 

Freezing  mixtures  that  contain  the  same  proportion  of  ingredients  will  have 
the  same  freezing  point.  Take  the  temperature  while  freezing  in  the  can  that  is 
turned  slowly.  Since  it  is  to  be  turned  slowly  the  results  for  it  will  not  be 
affected  if  the  turning  is  stopped  while  the  freezing  temperature  is  taken. 

Take  the  temperature  of  each  of  the  frozen  mixtures  before  tasting.  During 
hardening  some  of  the  frozen  mixtures  may  reach  lower  temperatures  than 
others.  Why?  Because  of  this  lower  temperature  they  will  be  harder  and  colder. 
If  possible  they  should  be  the  same  temperature  before  tasting.  If  they  are  not 


100 


FREEZING 


the  same  temperature  In  tasting  do  not  confuse  coldness  and  firmness  of  body 
with  texture.  The  body  should  be  firm  and  the  texture  smooth  and  velvety, 
that  is,  the  crystals  should  be  small  and  the  cream  should  not  be  buttery. 

An  electrically  operated  freezer  is  preferable  for  many  of  the  freezing 
experiments,  as  the  rate  of  turning  can  be  kept  uniform.  But  unless  it  has 
different  speeds,  it  cannot  be  used  for  determining  the  effect  of  rate  of  turning 
the  freezer. 

It  is  better  for  two  girls  to  work  together  for  each  of  the  freezing  experi- 
ments. 

Recipe: 


Cream 

1  cup 

240     grams 

Sugar 

3  tablespoons 

37.5  grams 

Vanilla 

X  teaspoon 

Use  coffee  cream  containing  18  to  20  per  cent  fat.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
cream.  Add  vanilla  and  freeze. 

1.  Turn  slowly  all  the  time:  about  40  turns  or  less  per  minute. 

2.  Turn  slowly  at  first,  then  rapidly  while  freezing;  40  turns  or  less  per 
minute  at  first,  then  about  100  turns  per  minute. 

3.  Turn  rapidly  all  the  time:  about  100  turns  per  minute. 

The  following  headings  are  suggested  for  records  of  the  freezing  experi- 
ments. After  all  the  experiments  have  been  performed,  write  a  summary  of 
your  conclusions  and  applications. 


Freezing 
temperature 


Time  to 
freeze 


Swell 
Per  cent 


Temperature  of 
mix  when  tasted 


Texture 


Flavor 


Results. 


Experiment  13. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  the  richness  of  the  cream  used  in  making  ice 
cream. 

Use  the  same  proportions  given  in  Experiment  12.  Use  1  part  of  salt  to  8  of 
ice.  Turn  slowly  at  first,  then  rapidly  during  the  freezing  period,  or  use  an 
electric  freezer. 

1.  Use  cream  containing  18  per  cent  fat. 

2.  Use  cream  containing  24  per  cent  fat.  If  equal  quantities  of  coffee  cream 
(18  to  20  per  cent)  and  whipping  cream  (30  to  32)  are  mixed,  a  cream  with 
approximately  24  per  cent  of  fat  will  be  obtained. 

3.  Use  a  cream  containing  30  per  cent  fat. 

Does  the  amount  of  fat  affect  the  freezing  point?  What  would  be  the  effect 
of  a  longer  freezing  period  on  the  creams  with  a  high  fat  content?  Would  It  be 
advantageous  to  use  a  smaller  proportion  of  salt  for  freezing  these  ice  creams? 


ICES  AND  SHERBETS  101 


Ices  and  Sherbets 

Experiment  14.  '   ^~ 

To  determine  the  best  proportions  of  Ice  and  salt  to  use  in  freezing  an  ice. 
Recipe : 

Water  1  cup         240  grams 

Sugar  y2  cup         100  grams 

Lemon  juice  yi  cup  60  grams 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Cool  to  30°C. 
and  add  the  lemon  juice,  then  freeze.  Turn  the  freezer  slowly  at  first,  then 
rapidly  or  use  an  electric  freezer.  Try  each  of  the  following  proportions  of  salt 
and  ice.  See  freezing  directions,  Experiment  12.  Compare  the  consistency  of 
the  frozen  ices,  the  fineness  of  the  crystals,  and  the  flavor.  Compare  the  swell 
obtained  with  the  different  proportions  of  ice  and  salt. 

1.  Use  1  part  of  salt  to  3  of  ice. 

2.  Use  1  part  of  salt  to  6  of  ice. 

3.  Use  1  part  of  salt  to  8  of  ice. 

4.  Use  1  part  of  salt  to  12  of  ice. 

What  is  the  proportion  of  ice  and  salt  given  in  cook  books  as  best  for  freez- 
ing ices?  Are  your  results  in  accordance  with  these  proportions?  Are  the  best 
proportions  for  an  ice  and  for  an  ice  cream  the  same? 

What  would  be  the  effect  of  adding  a  larger  proportion  of  sugar  to  the 
recipe?  If  you  wish  to  add  whole  strawberries  or  other  fruit  to  a  frozen 
dessert,  how  would  you  treat  them  to  prevent  their  freezing  into  chunks  of 
ice? 

Experiment  15. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  the  rate  of  turning  the  freezer  upon  the  texture 
of  an  ice. 

Use  the  proportions  of  salt  found  best  in  Expe-riment  14.  See  Experiment  12 
for  freezing  directions. 

Notice  when  the  ice  begins  to  turn  white.  When  does  the  swell  begin? 
Compare  the  texture  of  the  finished  products. 

1.  Turn  slowly  all  the  time,  about  40  turns  or  less  per  minute. 

2.  Turn  slowly  at  first,  40  turns  or  less  per  minute;  then  rapidly  while 
freezing,  about  100  turns  per  minute. 

3.  Turn  rapidly  all  the  time,  about  100  turns  per  minute. 

4.  If  you  have  a  vacuum  freezer  use  it  for  one  lot,  or  freeze  one  lot  in  the 
mechanical  refrigerator. 

Experiment  16. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  an  ice  when  a  binder  is  added. 
Use  1  part  of  salt  to  8  parts  of  Ice  or  the  best  proportions  found  In  Experi- 
ment 14.  See  Experiment  12  for  freezing  directions. 

1.  Prepare  the  lemon  ice  as  given  In  the  recipe  for  a  control. 

2.  To   the   recipe   given   add   ^^    teaspoon   of  gelatin.    Hydrate   the   gelatin 


102  FREEZING 

by  letting  It  stand  a  short  time  with   1  tablespoon  of  water.  Then  dissolve  In 
the  hot  sirup. 

3.  To  the  half-frozen  Ice,  add  Yz  egg  white  beaten  stiff.  Finish  freezing. 

4.  Prepare  lemon  ice  adding  both  Yi  teaspoon  of  gelatin  and  Y^  ^SS  white 
beaten  stiff.  See  2  and  3  for  directions  for  adding  to  the  ice. 

5.  Pour  the  hot  sirup  over  ^  egg  white  beaten  stiff.  Beat  while  adding  the 
sirup.  Cool,  add  lemon  juice,  and  freeze. 

6.  Repeat  1,  but  do  not  make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar  and  water.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  the  cold  water,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  freeze. 

7.  Repeat  6,  but  substitute  milk  for  the  water. 

Which  mixtures  give  the  best  textures?  Which  are  the  easiest  to  prepare  and 
freeze  ? 
Results. 

Suggestions  for  Additional  Experiments 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  Ice  cream  when  a  filler  Is  used. 
Recipe: 


Cream 

yi  cup 

160     grams 

Sugar 

3  tablespoons 

37.5  grams 

Milk 

Va  cup 

80     grams 

Vanilla 

J<4  teaspoon 

a.  Add 
freezing. 

b.  Add   Ya  beaten  egg   (12  grams)    to  the   recipe.  Scald.   Cool,   then   freeze. 
To  find  the  effect  of  aging  the  cream.  Use  cream  with  the  same  percentage 

of  fat,  but  have  one  lot  24  hours  older  than  the  other. 

To  find  the  effect  of  homogenizing  the  cream.  Use  cream  of  the  same  per- 
centage of  fat  and  the  same  age  but  have  one  lot  homogenized,  the  other 
unhomogenlzed. 


CHAPTER  IV 

FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Losses  in  Cooking  Vegetables 

The  losses  that  occur  in  cooking  fruits  and  vegetables  are  of  three  types: 
first,  the  losses  due  to  volatile  substances ;  second,  the  losses  due  to  the  solu- 
bility of  some  of  the  substances  of  the  fruit  or  the  vegetable  in  water  during 
preparation  and  cooking,  and  the  discarding  of  this  water;  third,  the  losses 
due  to  the  destruction  of  some  substances  by  heating. 

The  volatile  loss  is  composed  largely  of  water  but  includes  some  acids 
and  substances  that  give  flavor  and  odor.  The  greatest  part  of  the  volatile 
loss  can  be  replaced  by  the  addition  of  water.  The  other  volatile  substances 
affect  the  flavor  more  than  the  food  value  and  will  be  considered  later. 

Water  in  which  fruit  is  soaked  and  cooked  is  seldom  discarded,  so  that 
this  type  of  loss  pertains  more  to  the  cooking  of  vegetables.  Vegetables 
contain  the  following  food  nutrients:  protein,  fat,  carbohydrates,  minerals, 
and  vitamins.  Decrease  of  these  nutrients  during  cooking  is  due  largely  to 
their  loss.  Vegetables  contain  little  fat,  thus  fat  loss  in  their  cookery  is 
relatively  unimportant.  The  starch  from  vegetables  is  insoluble  in  water. 
The  loss  of  starch  from  vegetables  occurs  when  the  cell  walls  are  broken 
by  cutting  in  preparation,  disintegration  through  over-cooking  or  from 
abrasion,  which  may  occur  in  violent  boiling  and  cause  the  sloughing  off  of 
parts  of  the  vegetable  near  the  surface. 

Nitrogen.  The  nitrogenous  or  nitrogen-containing  part  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  may  be  classified  for  convenience  as  composed  of  proteins  and 
non-proteins.  The  nitrogenous  content  of  vegetables,  with  the  exception  of 
the  legumes,  is  low.  The  albumins  are  soluble  in  water  and  dilute  salt 
solutions,  the  globulins  in  dilute  neutral  salt  solutions.  They  are  both 
coagulable  by  heat.  Their  greatest  loss  would  occur  when  the  vegetable  is 
soaked  before  cooking,  or  when  cold  water  is  added  to  the  vegetable  to 
start  the  cooking  process.  In  salted  water  some  of  the  albumins  and  globu- 
lins would  be  dissolved. 

McKee  and  Smith  in  their  investigations  of  the  protein  of  the  cauli- 
flovv^er  found  that  68  per  cent  of  the  nitrogen  of  the  edible  part  belongs 
to  constituents  soluble  in  water  or  dilute  salt  solution;  12  per  cent  to 
compounds  soluble  in  0.3  per  cent  sodium  hydroxide,  but  not  soluble  in 
water;  and  16  per  cent  to  substances  insoluble  in  either  water  or  dilute 
alkali.  Their  results  show  a  large  proportion  of  the  nitrogen  compounds 

103 


104  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

soluble  in  water  and  dilute  salt  solution,  indicating  that  it  is  preferable 
to  start  cooking  in  boiling  water  to  coagulate  the  albumins  and  globulins. 

Some  of  the  nitrogenous  substances  are  soluble  at  all  temperatures.  The 
foaming  of  the  cooking  water  is  partially  due  to  these  substances,  and  par- 
tially to  tannins  and  saponins.  All  these  substances  lower  the  surface  tension 
of  the  cooking  water  and  favor  foaming.  Foaming  occurs  in  the  cooking 
of  some  vegetables,  such  as  peas  and  asparagus,  more  than  in  others. 

The  important  changes  in  the  cookery  of  vegetables  come  from  the  loss 
of  sugars,  vitamins,  and  minerals.  The  sugars  are  very  soluble  in  cold  and 
hot  water.  Their  loss  is  lessened  if  the  vegetable  is  left  in  large  pieces, 
which  give  less  surface  for  contact  with  the  water  than  small  pieces. 

Vitamins.  The  loss  of  vitamins  in  cooking  may  come  from  destruction 
by  heat  or  by  oxidation  as  well  as  loss  in  the  discarded  cooking  water. 

Mineral  salts.  The  principal  minerals  in  foods  that  may  be  lost 
during  cooking  are  the  salts  of  sodium  (Na),  potassium  (K),  calcium 
(Ca),  magnesium  (Mg),  phosphorus  (P),  sulfur  (S),  iron  (Fe),  chlorine 
(CI),  and  iodine  (I).  Sodium,  potassium,  magnesium,  and  calcium  are  a 
valuable  part  of  the  mineral  content  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  as  an  excess 
of  this  group  over  the  phosphorus,  sulfur,  and  chlorine  group  produces  an 
alkaline  ash  reaction  in  the  body  after  the  food  nutrients  have  been  ab- 
sorbed from  the  intestinal  tract.  Potassium  particularly  is  found  in  high 
percentage  in  most  vegetables.  Most  of  its  salts  as  well  as  those  of  sodium 
are  quite  soluble  in  water  so  that  their  loss  in  discarded  cooking  liquor 
may  be  high.  As  a  rule,  the  calcium  salts  are  not  so  soluble  as  the  other 
salts  found  in  vegetables;  in  some  vegetables  they  seem  to  be  in  an  in- 
soluble form,  but  in  others  the  calcium  loss  is  about  one-fourth  of  the 
total  calcium  of  the  food.  Magnesium  salts  are  more  soluble  than  those  of 
calcium.  Vegetables,  with  the  exception  of  the  legumes,  contain  small  per- 
centages of  phosphorus  when  compared  with  some  other  foods.  The  phos- 
phorus salts  are  easily  soluble,  and  the  phosphorus  loss  in  discarded  water 
may  amount  to  50  per  cent  or  more  of  the  total  phosphorus  of  the  vege- 
table. 

The  solubility  of  most  of  the  salts  found  in  vegetables  increases  with 
increasing  temperature  of  the  water,  so  that  at  100°C.  they  are  more 
soluble  than  at  ordinary  temperatures. 

Peterson  and  Hoppert,  using  medium  and  large  quantities  of  water  for 
cooking  vegetables,  report  the  loss  of  calcium  to  be  practically  nothing  in 
spinach.  In  other  vegetables  the  loss  is  about  30  per  cent  of  the  total  cal- 
cium. They  report  that  the  magnesium  loss  varies  from  20  to  45  per  cent, 
the  phosphorus  from  20  to  50  per  cent.  Berry  reports  as  high  as  60  per  cent 
for  magnesium  and  52  per  cent  for  phosphorus. 

The  following  losses  for  cooking  vegetables  in  water  are  reported  in 
U.  of  Minn.,  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  Bull.  54,  and  in  U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.  Farmers' 
Bull.  73. 


IRON 


105 


TABLE  13 
Losses  in  Cooking  Vegetables  Various  Ways  in  Water 


Loss  of  total 

Loss  of  total 

Loss  of  total 

Vegetable  and  method 

nitrogenous 
matter. 

mineral, 

sugar, 

per  cent 

per  cent 

per  cent 

Potatoes  peeled  and  soaked 

several  hours  before  cook- 

ine 

52 

38 

Potatoes  started  to  cook  in 

cold  water 

16 

19 

Potatoes,  cooking  started  in 

boiling  water 

8 

about  19 

Potatoes  cooked  in  skin 

trifling 

trifling 

. . 

Carrots  cut  in  small  pieces.  .  . 

42 

47 

26 

Carrots  cut  in  medium  pieces 

less  than 

less  than 

26 

42 

47 

Carrots  cut  in  large  pieces .  .  . 

20 

25  plus 

16 

Cabbage,  started  in  hot  water 

about  33 

about  33 

. . 

Cabbage,  started  in  cold  water 

about  50 

about  50 

Iron.  The  iron  of  foods  is  very  important  nutritionally,  because  of 
the  fact  that  many  dietaries  do  not  contain  the  minimum  daily  amount 
recommended  by  Sherman.  The  loss  of  iron  in  cooking  should  be  avoided. 
Iron  salts  are  quite  soluble.  Blunt  and  Otis  report  the  following  losses  of 
iron  when  the  vegetables  were  cooked  in  water:  spinach  43  per  cent; 
string  beans  39  per  cent;  navy  beans  32  per  cent;  peas  36  per  cent;  and 


TABLE  14 
Iron  Loss  in  Salted  and  Unsalted  Water  {Steinharger) 


Vegetable 


Potatoes  cut  in  halves 

Carrots 

Cabbage 

Onions 

Cauliflower 

Spinach 

Green  beans 


Unsalted  water. 

Salted  water. 

per  cent 

per  cent 

63.2 

83.7 

16.4 

27.8 

27.4 

40.7 

46.5 

71.4 

30.7 

47.4 

19.3 

46.8 

24.5 

38.8 

106  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

potatoes  15  per  cent.  Peterson  and  Hoppert  report  from  20  to  30  per 
cent  iron  loss  for  various  vegetables.  Morgan  reports  46  to  50  per  cent 
loss  for  canned  peas. 

Steinbarger  reports  the  loss  of  iron  as  greater  in  salted  than  in  unsalted 
water.  Table  14  is  from  her  results. 

The  vegetables  given  in  Table  14  were  cooked  the  following  lengths 
of  time:  potatoes  and  onions  20  minutes;  green  beans  90  minutes;  and  the 
others  30  minutes.  The  results  suggest  some  connection  between  iron  salts 
and  the  globulins.  The  iron  salts  of  potatoes  have  been  reported  as  more 
concentrated  near  the  surface,  which  may  account  for  their  high  iron  loss. 

Losses  due  to  method  o£  cooking  and  preparation.  The  losses 
through  cooking  of  vegetables  depend  upon  several  factors,  which  include: 
(1)  the  method  of  cooking,  (2)  the  nature  of  the  vegetable,  (3)  its  prep- 
aration, (4)  the  length  of  time  of  cooking,  (5)  the  temperature  of  cooking, 
(6)  the  quantity  of  cooking  water,  (7)  whether  started  in  hot  or  cold 
water,  and  (8)  the  reaction  of  the  cooking  medium.  Some  of  these  have 
been  considered  under  nitrogen  and  vitamin  losses. 

Baking  results  in  small  nutritive  losses. 

All  investigators  report  small  losses  in  steaming;  this  seems  to  be  an 
ideal  way  of  cooking  vegetables  whose  color  and  flavor  are  not  altered 
by  this  method. 

Masters  and  Garbutt  report  practically  no  loss  in  cooking  vegetables  in 
water,  if  the  amount  of  water  added  is  small  and  is  evaporated  just  to 
dryness  at  the  close  of  the  cooking  period.  They  designate  this  as  the 
conservative  method  of  cooking.  If  it  is  not  practicable  to  evaporate  the 
water  to  dryness,  the  use  of  as  small  a  quantity  of  water  as  possible  seems 
preferable  to  using  a  very  large  quantity. 

Leafy  vegetables  like  spinach  offer  a  larger  surface  area  for  loss  than 
the  compact  ones  like  carrots.  Soaking  in  water  before  cooking  may  increase 
the  losses,  and  vegetables  like  carrots  and  potatoes,  when  cooked  whole, 
in  their  skins,  or  left  in  large  pieces  lose  less  than  if  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Loughlin  reports  that  the  amount  of  the  sugars,  the  vitamins,  and  mineral 
salts  dissolved  in  the  cooking  water  is  increased  if  a  large  amount  of  liquid 
is  used,  if  much  cut  surface  is  exposed,  and  if  the  cooking  time  is  prolonged. 

Thompson  reports  that  the  total  loss  of  solids,  ash,  and  iron  is  greater 
in  vegetables  that  are  over-cooked  than  in  those  just  sufHciently  cooked. 

The  Plant  Acids 

The  plant  acids,  the  plant  pigments,  and  the  cellulose  are  constituents 
of  the  vegetable  less  often  considered  than  the  other  food  nutrients.  Knowl- 
edge of  the  common  reactions  of  these  constituents  renders  one  able  to 
serve  fruits  and  vegetables  that  are  attractive  in  appearance,  color,  and 
texture 


ACIDS  IN  VEGETABLES  107 

Plant  acids.  Plants  contain  organic  acids.  According  to  chemical 
classification  the  acids  may  belong  to  different  groups,  but  for  consideration 
in  cooking  they  may  be  divided  into  two  classes,  the  volatile  and  non- 
volatile ones.  Volatile  acids  are  the  ones  that  volatilize  and  pass  from  the 
liquid  as  vapor.  The  odor  of  acetic  acid  or  vinegar  during  cooking  is  vrell 
knovrn.  The  following  acids  of  the  CnHo„02  series  are  volatile,  the  first 
ones  being  more  volatile  than  the  last  ones: 

Formic  acid  H-COOH 

Acetic  acid  CHg-COOH 

Propionic  acid  CH3-CH2'COOH 

Butyric  acid  CH3  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  COOH 

Valeric  acid  CH3  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  COOH 

Caproic  acid  CH3  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  COOH 

Formic  and  acetic  acids  have  been  obtained  from  plants  during  distilla- 
tion. Onslow  states  that  propionic  acid  has  only  rarely  been  found  in 
plants. 

The  amount  of  volatile  acids  found  in  plants  varies ;  it  also  varies  in  the 
same  plant.  Koch  found  that  cooking  125  grams  of  spinach  for  1  hour  and 
collecting  the  distillate  required  18  cc.  of  N/\0  NaOH  to  neutralize  the 
volatile  acids.  Another  experiment  in  which  the  same  weight  of  spinach  was 
used  and  cooked  for  the  same  length  of  time  required  only  6  cc.  of  N/\0 
NaOH. 

Non-volatile  acids.  Not  all  the  acids  found  in  fruits  and  vegetables 
are  volatile.  The  following  are  some  of  the  more  common  non-volatile  ones 
found  in  foods: 

Dicarboxylic  acids 

OxaHc  acid  COOH  •  COOH 

Malonic  acid  COOH  •  CH2 •  COOH 

Succinic  acid  COOH  •  CH2  •  CH2  •  COOH 

Glutaric  acid  COOH  •  (CH2)3  •  COOH 

Adipic  acid  COOH  •  (CH2)4  •  COOH 

Hydroxydicarhoxylic  acids 

MaHc  acid  COOH  •  CHOH  •  CH2 •  COOH 

Tartaric  acid  COOH  ■  CHOH  •  CHOH  •  COOH 

Hydroxytricarboxylic  acids 

Citric  acid  COOH  •  CH2  •  COH  •  CH2  •  COOH 

I 
COOH 

Acids  in  vegetables.  The  acids  are  found  in  the  fruits,  leaves,  stem, 
and  root  stocks.  The  acid  may  occur  in  the  free  form,  but  is  often  com- 
bined as  a  salt  or  an  ester. 

Because  of  oxaluria  the  oxalic  acid  content  of  vegetables  is  of  interest. 
Onslow  states  that  oxalic  acid   ''occurs  very   frequently  and  widely  dis- 


108  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

tributed  in  plants,  usually  as  the  calcium  salt,  and  apparently  less  fre- 
quently as  the  sodium  and  potassium  salts.  It  has  rarely  been  detected  as 
the  free  acid.  The  calcium  salt  is  precipitated  on  adding  calcium  acetate 
to  a  solution  of  the  acid.  Calcium  oxalate  is  insoluble  in  acetic  acid,  but 
soluble  in  dilute  mineral  acids."  It  is  found  in  the  rumex  or  dock  family, 
of  which  different  docks  and  sour  grass  are  used  as  food.  Sorrel  and  rhubarb 
contain  a  rather  high  percentage.  Rider  has  reported  the  most  extensive 
determinations  of  oxalic  acid  in  leafy  vegetables.  She  has  found  that  the 
amount  in  spinach  ranges  from  0.486  to  0.692  per  cent.  Beet  greens  give 
an  equivalent  or  slightly  higher  amount  than  spinach,  and  New  Zealand 
spinach  contains  a  still  higher  percentage.  No  oxalic  acid  w^as  found  in 
dandelion  greens,  kale,  turnip  greens,  and  mustard  greens.  McLaughlin 
has  reported  the  oxalic  acid  content  of  eight  samples  of  New  Zealand 
spinach  as  ranging  from  0.49  to  0.53  per  cent,  anhydrous.  As  these  figures 
indicate,  the  amount  in  different  samples  of  the  same  vegetable  may  vary. 
Rider  mentions  this  fact  in  connection  with  the  samples  she  analyzed. 
Nelson  has  reported  0.31  per  cent  oxalic  acid  in  spinach. 

Succinic  acid  is  found  in  many  plants,  and  glutaric  and  adipic  have  been 
isolated  from  the  sugar  beet. 

Malic  acid  is  found  as  the  free  acid  and  as  the  salts  of  malic  acid  in 
many  plants,  and  particularly  in  apples  and  pears. 

Citric  acid  is  found  in  tomatoes  and  it  is  found  in  smaller  quantities  in 
other  foods.  Blunt  reports  small  amounts  in  cabbage,  asparagus,  and  string 
beans. 

Nelson  has  reported  that  spinach  contains  both  citric  and  malic  acids.  The 
ratio  of  citric  to  malic  acid  in  broccoli  was  3 :2.  The  leaves  and  buds 
contained  approximately  the  same  proportions.  Small  amounts  of  oxalic 
and  succinic  are  also  present.  The  acid  content  of  lettuce  was  as  follows: 
oxalic,  1 -malic,  and  citric,  0.011,  0.065,  and  0.048  per  cent  respectively. 

Tomatoes,  which  have  the  highest  amount  of  acid  of  our  common 
vegetables,  contain  citric  acid.  Blunt  reports  0.42  per  cent. 

The  acids  found  in  fruits.  Conflicting  reports  appear  in  the  literature 
regarding  the  particular  acid  in  different  foods.  Bigelow  and  Dunbar  sug- 
gest that  this  is  due  to  the  inaccurate  methods  of  analysis  often  used  and 
to  the  difficulty  in  separating  the  different  acids  from  one  another.  Nelson 
has  reported  the  approximate  percentages  of  the  various  acids  in  fresh 
fruits,  the  average  total  acidity  being  calculated  as  citric.  His  results  are 
given  in  Table  15. 

Nelson  states  that  the  most  common  acids  in  fruits,  citric  and  malic, 
may  occur  in  different  proportions  or  one  alone  may  be  present.  "The 
total  acidity  of  most  fruits  varies  with  the  variety  and  the  degree  of  ripe- 
ness. The  relative  proportions  of  the  various  acids  may  also  vary  with  the 
degree  of  ripeness,  variety,  and  climatic  and  soil  conditions." 

Rhubarb  contains  some  oxalic  acid ;  cranberries  and  plums  some  benzoic. 
Other  acids  sometimes  found  in  small  quantities  are  succinic,   lactic,   iso- 


ACIDS  FOUND  IN  FRUITS 


109 


TABLE  15 
The  Acids  of  Fruits  {Nelson) 


Fruit 

In- 
ves- 
ti  ga- 
tor 

Cit- 
ric 

% 

Mal- 
ic 

% 

Tar- 
tar- 
ic 

% 

Ben- 
zoic 

C7 
/O 

Oxal- 
ic 

% 

Suc- 
cin- 
ic 

% 

Lac- 
tic 

% 

Iso- 
cit- 
ric 

% 

Total 
acidity 
(titrat- 
able)  % 

Apple  (Winesap) 
Apricot  (dried) 
Banana 

N 
N 
P 

N 
N 
F 
N 
F 
N 
N 
H 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
F 
N 

trace 
0.35 

trace 
1.56 
0.01 
1.82 
2.30 
0.34 

1*46' 

3.84 

2.02 

0.98 

0.37 

0.24 

0.84 

1.25 

"\m 

1.30 
0.41 
0.91 
trace 
0.30 

0.50 
0.81 
0.24 
0.16 
0.10 
1.25 
0.46 
0.05 
trace 
0.65 

0.51 

trace 

1  16 

0.26 

Blackberry 

trace 

trace 

0.92 

1.08 

Blueberry 

1.66 

Cherry          . . 

trace 

0.07 

0.13 

1.36 

Cranberry 

0.07 

2.35 

trace 

trace 

2.35 

Fig 

0.35 

Grape 

0.43 

1.08 

Grapefruit 

Lemon 

1.46 

trace 
0.08 
trace 
0.37 
0.12 
0.12 

3.88 

Loganberry .... 
Orange 

2.10 

0.99 

Peach 

0.74 

Pear 

0.36 

Pineapple 

Pomegranate. .  . 

Quince 

Raspberry,  blk. 

0.96 

1.25 

0.68 

0.68 

1.06 

Raspberry,  red 

0.04 
1.77 
0.10 
0.50 
0.20 

1.34 

Rhubarb 

0.12 

2.30 

Strawberry 

1.01 

7.76 

trace 

trace 

8.00 

Tomato 

0.50 

F  refers  to  Fransen:  N  to  Nelson:  H  to  Hartman:  and  P  to  Pratt. 

citric,  and  acetic.  Nelson  reports  acetic  acid  in  figs,  isocitric  in  blackberries, 
and  tartaric  in  grapes.  Bigelow  and  Dunbar  have  reported  that  both  citric 
and  malic  acids  are  found  in  gooseberry,  the  total  acid  for  different  varieties 
varying  from  1.72  to  2.63  per  cent. 

Mineral  salts  of  organic  acids  may  be  formed  during  the  cooking  of 
fruits  in  metal  containers.  Very  unpalatable  flavors  are  developed  in  this 
way,  and  the  color  of  the  cooked  product  is  darkened.  This  brings  to 
memory  a  sample  of  plum  butter  sent  to  the  Department.  It  was  nearly 
charcoal  black  in  color,  and  as  for  flavor  might  have  been  made  from 
any  fruit,  for  there  was  little  of  the  original  fruit  flavor  left.  The  sender 
stated  it  had  been  cooked  on  the  back  of  the  stove  in  a  tin  wash  boiler 
for  three  days  and  was  much  perturbed  because  a  neighbor  had  told  her  it 
was  poisonous  on  account  of  the  cooking  utensil  used.  Hence  a  sample  was 
sent  with  the  request  to  try  it  and  see  if  it  was  poisonous. 


no 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


Just  as  inorganic  acids  may  combine  with  metals  to  produce  acid  or 
neutral  salts  according  to  whether  part  or  all  of  the  hydrogen  is  replaced 
by  the  metal,  so  in  a  similar  way  organic  acids  may  combine  with  metals 
forming  salts. 

Thus  oxalic  acid  gives 


COOH 
I 


KOH 


H2O  + 


COOH 

oxalic  acid 

potassium 
hydroxide 

COOH 
COOH 

+ 

2  KOH 

oxalic  acid 

potassium 
hydroxide 

COOK 

I 
COOH 

acid  potassium 
oxalate 


2H2O 


COOK 

+      I 

COOK 

potassium 
oxalate 


Zinc  utensils.  Some  of  the  metal  salts  formed  with  organic  acids  are 
injurious  when  taken  into  the  body.  The  zinc  salts  of  organic  acids  have 
been  regarded  as  toxic.  They  are  formed  when  foods  containing  acids  are 
placed  in  galvanized  containers.  Galvanized  iron  contains  some  zinc,  and 
when  fruits,  beverages,  or  even  milk  are  placed  in  utensils  made  of  it,  the 
acids  of  the  food  combine  with  the  zinc,  forming  salts. 

Sale  and  Badger  have  reported  that  zinc  is  dissolved  from  galvanized 
utensils,  and  the  greater  the  acidity  of  the  food  and  the  longer  the  food 
stays  in  such  containers  the  more  zinc  dissolved.  Even  fresh  milk  contains 
enough  acid  to  dissolve  appreciable  amounts  of  zinc. 

Burke,  Woodson,  and  Heller,  after  investigating  the  toxicity  of  butter- 
milk held  in  galvanized  containers,  question  the  attributing  of  the  toxicity 
to  zinc  in  many  previous  investigations,  and  think  that  in  some  cases  the 
toxicity  may  have  been  due  to  the  surface  of  the  galvanized  container  being 
contaminated  with  some  other  substance,  possibly  arsenic,  lead,  or  antimony. 

The  tin  salts  have  not  been  found  poisonous,  but  large  amounts  of  them 
in  a  food,  such  as  would  result  when  an  acid  fruit  is  cooked  for  a  long 
time  in  a  tin  wash  boiler,  produce  a  very  dark  color  and  a  disagreeable 
metallic  flavor. 

Iron  salts  with  acids  may  cause  discoloration  in  some  food  products. 


Plant  Pigments 

Chlorophyll.  Chlorophyll,  the  green  pigment  of  plants,  plays  an  im- 
portant role  in  their  synthesis  of  carbohydrates.  The  cells  of  the  mesophyll 
of  the  leaf  contain  chloroplasts  or  chlorophyll-corpuscles,  the  nucleus,  other 
substances,  and  the  cell  liquid  with  its  dissolved  materials.  The  chloro- 
plasts contain  four  pigments,  two  green  ones,  chlorophyll  a  and  chlorophyll 
Z>,  and  two  yellow  ones,  carotene  and  xanthophyll. 

Solubility  of  chlorophyll.  Chlorophyll  is  not  soluble  in  water.  Very  little 


CHLOROPHYLL  111 

green  color  is  found  in  the  water  in  which  green  vegetables  have  been 
cooked.  Pure  isolated  chlorophyll  is  soluble  in  acetone,  ether  and  benzene. 
In  extracting  the  pigment  from  thoroughly  dry  leaves  it  is  necessary  to  add 
about  20  per  cent  of  water  to  the  acetone  or  other  solvent.  One  explana- 
tion for  this  is  that  chlorophyll  is  in  the  colloidal  state  in  the  leaf,  and 
the  mineral  constituents  of  the  leaf,  dissolved  in  the  water,  peptize  it, 
rendering  it  soluble.  Onslow  states  that  "the  condition  of  chlorophyll  is 
altered  by  plunging  into  boiling  water.  The  pigment  is  then  much  more 
soluble,  in  ether,  etc.,  even  when  the  leaves  are  subsequently  dried.  It  is 
supposed  that  the  chlorophyll  has  diffused  out  from  the  plastids,  and  is  in 
true  solution  in  the  accompanying  waxy  substances  which  have  become 
liquid  owing  to  change  in  temperature." 

When  green  vegetables  are  dropped  into  boiling  water  a  change  takes 
place  nearly  instantly,  the  green  color  being  intensified.  Various  explana- 
tions have  been  offered  for  the  phenomenon.  One  is  that  the  hot  water  has 
melted  waxy  constituents  of  the  leaf  so  the  chlorophyll  escapes  from  the 
cell  more  readily  or  may  become  more  soluble.  Or  the  hot  water  may  have 
dissolved  salts  or  other  substances  in  contact  with  the  chlorophyll  so  that 
it  diffuses  more  readily. 

For  peas,  Kohman  states  that  one  factor  in  the  intensification  of  the 
green  color  is  the  removal  of  air  from  the  pea  when  it  is  dropped  in  the 
boiling  water.  The  outer  skin  of  the  pea  is  transparent,  the  space  beneath 
this  being  impregnated  with  air  which  is  removed  when  the  peas  are 
blanched.  That  this  change  in  color  is  caused  by  removal  of  the  air  can  be 
shown  by  subjecting  the  peas  to  an  adequate  vacuum  under  cold  water 
and  releasing  the  vacuum  while  the  peas  are  still  under  the  water. 

Composition  of  chlorophyll.  Willstatter,  whose  work  gave  us  the  formula 
for  and  the  chemical  reactions  of  chlorophyll,  reports  that  it  exists  in  two 
forms,  depending  upon  the  degree  of  oxidation  in  the  plant  cells:  form  {a) 
and  form  {b) .  The  former  exists  in  the  proportion  of  three  to  one  of  the 
latter. 

COOCH3  COOH 

C32H3oON4Mg<^  C32H,cON4Mg<^ 

COOC20H39  COOH 

chlorophyll  a  chlorophyllin 

COOCH3 
C32H2802N4Mg/ 

COOC20H39     • 

chlorophyll  b 

Chlorophyll  contains  2.7  per  cent  of  the  metal  magnesium.  It  contains 
two  ester  groups,  one  of  methyl  alcohol  (COOCH3)  and  one  of  phytol 
alcohol  (COOC20H39). 


112  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Reactions  of  chlorophyll  with  alkalies.  Chlorophyll  is  a  neutral  substance 
but  gives  characteristic  reactions  when  treated  with  alkalies  or  acids.  Will- 
statter  designates  the  parent  substance  of  chlorophyll  as  chlorophyllin.  The 
reaction  of  chlorophyllin  with  methyl  and  phytol  alcohols  gives  the  ester 
chlorophyll.  Chlorophyll,  when  treated  in  the  cold  with  alkalies,  gives 
alkaline  salts  of  chlorophyllin.  The  color  change  is  first  brown,  followed 
by  a  return  of  the  green,  but  it  is  no  longer  fluorescent.  When  chlorophyll 
is  saponified  with  hot  alcoholic  alkalies,  isochlorophyllins  are  formed,  which 
are  fluorescent. 


COOCH3 

C32H3oON4Mg/                     +     2  MOH 
COOC20H39 

chlorophyll  a                                                alkali 

COOM 

C32H3oON4Mg/ 

COOM 

+ 

CH3OH 

+ 

C20H39C 

alkali  salt  of  chlorophyllin 

methyl 
alcohol 

phytol 
alcohol 

When  the  green-colored  vegetables  are  cooked  in  water  with  an  alkaline 
reaction,  or  in  water  to  which  a  small  amount  of  soda  is  added,  they 
develop  a  bright,  intense  green  color. 

Reaction  of  chlorophyll  with  acids.  Chlorophyll  reacts  with  acids  to 
give  an  olive-colored  product,  without  fluorescence,  called  phaeophytin.  The 
magnesium  of  the  chlorophyll  is  replaced  by  hydrogen.  From  phaeophytin, 
Willstatter  has  obtained  two  decomposition  groups:  the  first,  designated  as 
phytochlorins,  are  olive  green  and  derived  from  chlorophyll  a;  the  second, 
the  phytorhodins,  are  red  and  derived  from  chlorophyll  b. 

COOCH3 

C32H3oON4Mg/  +      2Hx > 

COOC2oH39 

chlorophyll  a  acid 

(C32H320N4)(COOCH3)(COOC2oH,9)        -f        MgX2 

phaeophytin  magnesium 

salt 

The  effect  of  heat  upon  chlorophyll.  The  chlorophyll  is  changed  to  the 
olive-green  color  by  two  means,  ( 1 )  by  hydrogen  ions  or  an  acid  reaction  and 
(2)  by  heat.  As  previously  given,  the  hydroxyl  ions,  or  an  alkaline  reac- 
tion, produces  chlorophyll  salts  with  bright  green  color.  In  general,  the 
more  acid  the  reaction,  the  more  rapid  is  this  change  in  color  w^hen  the 
vegetable  is  heated ;  or,  vice  versa,  the  more  alkaline  the  reaction,  the  more 
slowly  the  chlorophyll  changes  to  olive-green.  Thus  in  order  that  the  bright 
green  color  be  retained  in  cooking  green  vegetables,  they  should  be  cooked 


CHLOROPHYLL  113 

for  as  short  a  time  as  possible  and  contact  with  acids  should  be  avoided  as 
far  as  possible.  It  is  also  possible  that  other  ions  than  the  hydrogen  and 
hydroxyl  ions  may  affect  the  stability  of  the  chlorophyll,  for  some  vege- 
tables with  nearly  the  same  />H,  cooked  in  water  from  the  same  source, 
and  with  other  conditions  standardized  are  more  stable  to  heat  than  others. 

In  cooking  certain  procedures  may  aid  in  decreasing  the  acidity  of  the 
cooking  water.  The  vegetables  contain  both  volatile  and  non-volatile  acids, 
which  in  the  plant  are  prevented  from  uniting  with  the  chlorophyll  but 
are  liberated  when  the  plant  tissues  are  heated.  If  the  cooking  vessel  is  not 
covered,  the  volatile  acids  may  escape  with  the  steam,  thus  decreasing  the 
acidity. 

It  has  been  found  that  the  highest  percentage  of  these  volatile  acids 
passes  off  during  the  first  few  minutes  of  cooking.  Hence,  if  the  cooking 
vessel  needs  to  be  covered  for  a  part  of  the  time,  it  is  preferable  to  have 
the  uncovered  period  the  first  few  minutes. 

Certain  water,  such  as  hard  water,  softened  water,  or  water  from  many 
streams,  is  alkaline  in  reaction.  Rain  water,  snow,  or  ice  water  is  usually 
about  neutral.  If  the  cooking  water  contains  alkaline  salts,  these  salts  may 
neutralize  the  non-volatile  acids,  and  if  there  is  a  slight  excess  of  alkaline 
salts  the  green  color  is  intensified.  To  a  certain  extent  the  intensification 
depends  upon  the  quantity  of  water  used,  for  the  larger  quantity  of  water 
contains  a  greater  quantity  of  alkaline  salts.  If  the  water  is  only  slightly 
alkaline  the  plant  acids  may  not  all  be  neutralized  and  the  olive-green  color 
may  develop.  If  the  water  is  very  alkaline  and  considerable  water  is  used, 
not  enough  volatile  and  non-volatile  acids  will  be  liberated  to  neutralize 
the  alkalinity  of  the  water,  the  cover  can  be  kept  on  during  cooking,  and 
the  product  will  be  bright  green.  With  longer  cooking  the  heat  may  have 
more  effect  upon  the  chlorophyll  than  the  alkaline  salts  of  the  water.  The 
addition  of  sodium  bicarbonate  (baking  soda).  Experiment  17A,  5,  also 
intensifies  the  green  color.  Canned  spinach,  asparagus,  peas,  and  string 
beans  have  a  deep  olive-green  color  due  to  the  retention  of  the  plant  acids 
during  processing  and  to  the  high  temperature  at  which  they  are  processed. 
Green  vegetables  like  cabbage,  Brussels  sprouts,  and  spinach  cooked  in 
milk  may  remain  a  bright  green  color.  Owing  to  the  ease  with  which  milk 
scorches  and  boils  over  there  is  usually  less  tendency  to  cook  the  vege- 
tables too  long  when  milk  is  used. 

Heat  decomposes  chlorophyll,  an  olive-green  color  being  produced.  The 
extent  of  decomposition  depends  upon  the  time  of  heating  and  the  tem- 
perature reached.  With  a  very  short  cooking  period  little  destruction  may 
occur,  but  with  a  longer  time  all  the  chlorophyll  may  be  decomposed.  At 
lower  temperatures  the  change  is  less  rapid  and  at  higher  temperatures 
more  rapid.  Thus  in  a  pressure  cooker  the  change  is  rapid,  since  the  tempera- 
ture is  high  and  acidity  is  not  decreased  because  the  volatile  acids  are 
retained.  Increasing  the  alkalinity  by  using  alkaline  water  or  adding  soda 


114  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

retards  the  color  change  by  heat.  However,  the  addition  of  soda  is  not 
advisable,  because  it  softens  the  cellulose  rapidly  so  that  the  vegetable  with 
slight  over-cooking  becomes  mushy  or  even  slimy  and  the  destruction  of 
some  of  the  vitamins  is  hastened. 

The  cooking  of  green  vegetables  that  contain  enough  acid  to  taste  sour, 
like  sorrel,  sour  grass,  and  dock,  always  produces  this  olive-green  color 
no  matter  how  cooked  or  for  how  short  a  time.  Their  acid  content  is  too 
high  to  be  neutralized  by  the  alkaline  salts  of  water  or  the  addition  of 
baking  soda  in  small  amounts.  Green  fruits  like  gooseberries,  green  grapes, 
and  green  plums  develop  an  olive-green  color  when  cooked.  If  the  fruits  are 
mature  they  may  also  contain  yellow  pigments  that  modify  the  color  to  a 
certain  extent. 

If  acid  is  to  be  added  as  a  seasoning  to  green  vegetables  it  is  preferable 
to  add  it  when  served,  for  there  will  not  be  so  long  a  time  for  the  acid 
to  react  on  the  chlorophyll  and  less  brown  color  will  develop.  When 
vegetables  are  cooked  with  added  acid,  the  softening  of  the  vegetable  is 
prevented  to  a  slight  extent. 

Replacing  magnesium  in  chlorophyll  products.  It  is  very  difficult  to  re- 
place the  magnesium  of  the  magnesium-free  chlorophyll  products.  It  can 
be  done  chemically  by  using  a  very  reactive  substance,  magnesium  methyl 
iodide,  but  this  is  impracticable  to  use  in  cooking  processes.  However,  Will- 
statter  states  that  the  acetate  salts  of  some  metals  such  as  copper,  iron,  and 
zinc  will  combine  with  phaeophytin  and  give  very  bright  green-colored 
products.  This  is  such  a  good  test  for  small  quantities  of  these  metals  that 
it  is  necessary  in  isolating  chlorophyll  to  be  extremely  careful  that  it  does 
not  come  in  contact  with  them.  If  to  the  green  vegetable  to  which  acid  has 
been  added  and  in  which  the  olive-green  color  has  developed.  Experiment 
17A,  6,  copper  acetate  is  added,  a  vivid  green  color  will  develop  on 
standing. 

Carotinoids.  Carotinoids  is  a  term  applied  to  the  pigments  giving  yel- 
low and  orange  coloring  to  fruits  and  flowers,  carotene,  C4oHr,o,  and 
xanthophyll,  C4oHr,(;02.  The  carotinoids  are  not  soluble  in  water,  and  the 
pigments  are  not  affected,  to  any  great  extent,  by  the  concentration  of 
acids  or  alkalies  used  in  food  preparation.  The  darkening  produced  by  the 
action  of  alkalies  by  caramelization  of  the  sugar  in  vegetables,  like  carrots, 
must  not  be  confused  with  a  change  in  pigment  color.  Carotene  is  easily 
oxidized  when  exposed  to  air.  Xanthophyll  can  also  be  oxidized  in  the  same 
way.  One  of  the  characteristics  of  the  carotinoids  is  the  intensity  of  their 
coloring.  The  red  pigment  found  in  tomatoes  is  lycopin,  an  isomer  of 
carotene. 

Flavones  and  Flavonols.  Flavones  and  flavonols  are  amphoteric  pig- 
ments found  in  vegetables  and  petals  of  flowers.  They  are  also  found  in  the 
cell  sap  of  the  epidermis  and  underlying  tissue  of  plants.  Onslow  gives  the 
following  formulas : 


FLAVONES  AND  FLAVONOLS 


115 


flavonol 

As  they  occur  in  nature  they  often  have  other  or  additional  hydrogen 
atoms  replaced  by  hydroxyl  groups.  The  position  of  the  hydroxyl  groups 
markedly  influences  the  intensity  of  color,  the  color  usually  being  deeper 
if  two  hydroxyl  groups  are  in  the  ortho  position  to  each  other.  The  flavone 
and  flavonol  pigments  are  yellovr  in  color.  In  plants  they  often  occur  as 
glucosides,  one  or  more  of  the  hydroxyl  groups  being  combined  with  the 
sugar,  and  then  the  color  is  less  intense.  They  give  an  intense  yellow  color 
with  alkalies.  Sometimes  the  quantity  of  them  found  in  white  vegetables 
is  so  minute  that  they  are  not  visible.  Adding  an  alkali  or  holding  them 
over  ammonia  vapor  intensifies  the  color  and  they  become  visible.  The 
color  changes  of  the  flavones  cannot  be  observed  so  readily  in  the  yellow, 
red,  or  green  vegetables. 

Rice  cooked  in  alkaline  water  usually  has  a  yellow  tinge,  and  sometimes 
it  is  rather  deep  in  hue  or  has  a  green  tint.  Rice  from  the  same  source  as 
that  cooked  in  alkaline  water,  but  cooked  in  distilled  water,  has  a  snowy 
white  appearance. 

The  cooking  of  cauliflower,  white  cabbage,  and  particularly  white  onions 
in  alkaline  water  often  causes  the  yellow  color  to  develop.  Some  white 
onions  cooked  in  the  hard  water  at  Ames  have  developed  nearly  a  sulfur 
yellow  in  color,  whereas  portions  of  the  same  onions  cooked  in  distilled 
water  remained  white,  or  retained  their  natural  yellow  tinge. 

Potatoes  must  often  contain  flavones,  as  they  sometimes  develop  a  yellow 
or  green  color  in  alkaline  water.  Mashed  potatoes  that  have  a  strong 
alkaline  taste  may  be  improved  in  flavor  by  adding  a  very  small  amount  of 
cream  of  tartar. 

Flavones  and  flavonols  with  iron  salts  turn  green  and  then  brown.  This 


116  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

may   explain  some   color   changes   that   occur   when    foods   are   cooked    in 
chipped  enamel  utensils  having  an  iron  base. 

Anthocyanins.  The  anthocyans  include  a  group  of  pigments  that,  like 
sugars,  have  similar  composition  and  properties  yet  have  individual  dif- 
ferences. As  a  rule  they  occur  as  glucosides  in  different  parts  of  the  plant 
and  are  known  as  anthocyanins  in  this  combination.  When  the  glucoside  is 
hydrolyzed  by  boiling  with  dilute  acid  the  non-glucosidal  pigment  portion 
is  called  anthocyanidin.  The  anthocyanins  are  soluble  in  water.  Onslow 
states  that  occasionally  they  crystallize  from  the  cell  sap.  Most  but  not  all 
of  the  anthocyanins  are  soluble  in  alcohol.  The  anthocyan  pigments  give 
the  blue,  purple,  violet,  and  red  shades  to  different  parts  of  the  plant. 
They  are  very  widely  distributed.  Onslow  states  that  the  plant  that  does 
not  produce  them  is  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule.  They  occur  in 
apples,  cherries,  currants,  grapes,  blueberries,  red  and  black  raspberries, 
in  some  varieties  of  peaches  and  plums,  and  in  red  cabbage,  radishes,  beets, 
and  other  fruits  and  vegetables. 

All  the  anthocyanins  so  far  isolated  have  fallen  into  one  of  three  groups. 
They  are  illustrated  as  the  chlorides.  The  number  of  hydroxy  groups 
attached  to  the  side  benzene  ring  is  made  the  basis  of  the  classification. 
The  glucosides  of  these  anthocyanidins  are  called  pelargonins,  cyanins,  and 
delphinins. 

One  of  the  reactions  that  the  anthocyanins  have  in  common  is  their 
color  changes.  Onslow  states  that  the  pigment  should  be  pure  to  test  the 
color  reactions,  for  in  the  plant  the  pigment  is  found  with  other  substances 
that  may  modify  the  reaction.  In  an  acid  solution,  pure  anthocyans  are 
usually  red ;  in  an  alkaline  one  they  are  violet  or  blue,  but  if  flavones  or 
flavonols  are  present,  a  green  color  is  obtained  through  the  mixture  of  the 
blue  and  yellow.  Yet  the  solutions  of  many  fruit  juices  show  typical  color 
changes.  In  ordinary  solutions  of  plant  pigments  they  become  green,  then 
yellow,  and  sometimes  brown  upon  the  addition  of  alkali.  If  the  alkali  is 
very  weak,  or  with  salts  with  a  weak  alkaline  reaction,  a  blue  color  may 
form  and  the  green  may  never  develop,  or  the  blue  may  be  intermediate 
between  the  red  and  the  green. 

Color  changes  of  fruit  juices.  Pratt  and  Swartout  state  that  the  solu- 
tions of  many  fruit  pigments  act  as  indicators;  that  the  solutions  are  easily 
prepared  and  stable;  that  the  liquid  indicators  can  be  used  in  titrating 
acids,  but  not  bases,  for  in  a  solution  no  more  than  moderately  alkaline 
they  soon  decompose,  all  of  them  producing  a  brown  color  which  does  not 
change  when  acid  is  added.  They  found  that  apricots,  peaches,  pears,  per- 
simmons, and  tomatoes  failed  to  yield  pigments  that  could  be  used  as  in- 
dicators. It  is  interesting  that  the  pigment  of  cactus  holds  its  red  color 
even  in  a  distinctly  alkaline  medium.  They  also  state  that  "the  pigment  of 
red  beets  remained  red  through  the  acid  range  and  into  the  alkaline  range 
at  least  as  far  as  /»H  13.0."  In  their  conclusion  they  recommend  that  the 
greatest  usefulness  of  the  indicators  is  in  test  papers. 


ANTHOCYANINS 


117 


CI 


ho/        \/    '   \ 


C-OH 
OH 

pelargonidin  chloride 


a 


/ 


./■ 


,/" 


■\ 


OH 


H 


C-OH 


\  /\ 

v/   v 

OH  H 

cyaninidin  chloride 


CI 


HO 


/■ 


./ 


./ 


Os 


\ 


./■■ 


./-" 


"V 


OH 
OH 


-OH 


\c/ 

OH 


delphinidin  chloride 

Fruit  colors  and  punch.  Combinations  of  fruit  juices  for  punch  can  yield 
beautiful,  clear  colors,  or  ugly,  muddy  ones.  If  a  red  color  is  desired,  use 
red-  or  blue-colored  juices  and  keep  the  reaction  acid  by  the  addition  of 
lemon  juice.  For  a  purple  shade,  choose  fruit  juices  nearly  neutral  in 
reaction  and  do  not  add  lemon  juice.  A  blue  color  can  usually  be  intensified 
by  the  addition  of  canned  pineapple  juice.  (See  the  following  paragraph.) 
Alkaline  water  may  or  may  not  give  a  bluish  tinge  to  red  fruit  juices, 
depending  on  the  alkalinity  of  the  water  and  the  acidity  of  the  juice.  Orange 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


TABLE  16 
The  pH  Range  with  Color  Changes  of  Fruit  Juices  {Pratt  and  Szvartout) 


Fruit  source 

Color  change 

pH  range 

Apples 

Red  to  yellowish-green 

6.2-  7.2 

Blackberries 

Red  to  dark  grayish-blue 

6.0-  7.4 

Blueberries 

Reddish-purple  to  greenish-purple 

6.2-  7.2 

Cactus 

Red  to  faint  purple 

9.0-12.0 

Cactus 

Faint  purple  to  reddish-brown 

12.0-13.0 

Cherries 

Red  to  bluish-purple 

6.0-  7.2 

Grapes 

Red  to  purple 

5.0-  6.6 

Grapes 

Purple  to  green 

6.6-  7.6 

Plums 

Red  to  yellow^ish-green 

6.2-  7.2 

Pomegranates 

Red  to  purple 

6.0-  6.8 

Pomegranates 

Purple  to  green 

6.8-  7.6 

Strawberries 

Red  to  yellowish-green 

6.2-  7.2 

TABLE  17 

The  Color  of  Fruit  Juices  in  Neutral,  Acid,  and  Alkaline  Mediums 

{Pratt  and  Szvartout) 


Fruit  source 

Neutral  tint 

Acid  tint 

Alkaline  tint 

Apples 

Grayish-purple 

Red 

Green 

Blackberries 

Purple 

Red 

Bluish-green 

Blueberries 

Purple 

Red 

Blue 

Cherries 

Reddish-purple 

Red 

Bluish-green 

Cranberries 

Faint  purple 

Red 

Light  green 

Grapes 

Purple 

Red 

Bluish-green 

Plums 

Faint  purple 

Red 

Light  green 

Pomegranates 

Purple 

Red 

Bluish-green 

Strawberries 

Reddish-purple 

Red 

Light  green 

juice  should  be  added  to  red  or  blue  fruit  juices  only  when  a  brownish 
or  magenta  shade  is  desired,  for  often  this  combination  is  not  attractive. 
From  the  colors  produced,  or  unless  very  small  proportions  of  one  color 
are  used,  the  red  and  yellow,  blue  and  yellow,  or  green  and  yellow  com- 
binations should  be  avoided. 

The  color  change  obtained  by  the  addition  of  canned  pineapple  juice 
to  grape,  wild  grape,  blackberry,  raspberry,  or  loganberry  juices  cannot  be 
explained  on  the  basis  of  acidity  alone.  Even  if  these  juices  have  had  a 
large  quantity  of  lemon  juice  added  they  usually  turn  blue  or  the  original 


ANTHOCYANINS  119 

blue  shade  is  intensified  and  particularly  after  the  juices  have  been  mixed 
and  left  standing  a  short  time.  Tin  salts  from  the  canned  pineapple  may 
be  one  cause  for  the  color  change.  In  addition,  proteins,  tannins,  and  ferric 
salts  may  play  a  role  in  causing  color  changes.  Also  many  of  the  salts  of 
the  anthocyanins  have  characteristic  colors  which  are  independent  of  mild 
changes  in  acidity.  Many  organic  substances  also  have  characteristic  color 
changes. 

Violet  colorations  in  canned  fruits.  Culpepper  and  Caldwell  have  re- 
ported the  cause  of  violet  coloration  of  some  fruits  canned  in  tin  con- 
tainers. The  red  anthocyan  pigments  have  the  property  of  combining  with 
tin,  forming  salts  that  are  violet  colored.  The  salts  are  formed  when  the 
material  containing  the  pigment  is  heated  with  tin.  They  find  that  "the 
amount  of  the  violet  compound  formed  is  determined  by  the  amount  of 
pigment  present,  and  by  the  degree  of  acidity  of  the  medium,  low  acidity 
favoring  its  formation,  high  acidity  depressing  or  suppressing  it."  The  ad- 
dition of  an  alkali  intensifies  the  violet  color;  the  addition  of  acid  restores 
the  original  red  color.  The  violet  color  is  deepened  by  standing  in  the  air 
after  opening  the  can. 

Color  changes  of  red  vegetables.  Clark  gives  in  his  list  of  indicators  that 
red  cabbage  extract  is  red  at  /)H  2.4  and  green  at  />H  4.5.  However,  the 
results  in  this  laboratory  have  not  agreed  with  those  of  Clark.  In  general 
there  is  lack  of  agreement  in  reports  of  />H  at  which  the  pigment  of  red 
cabbage  turns  blue.  There  are  probably  two  reasons  for  this.  The  antho- 
cyanins combine  with  metals  to  form  salts,  the  particular  metal  influencing 
the  color  reactions.  Also  the  color  developed  at  a  given  />H  may  depend 
upon  the  time  of  exposure  at  that  p\i.  The  cabbage  itself,  when  cooked  in 
water  or  juice  pressed  from  the  cabbage,  shows  changes  at  varying  reac- 
tions, which  have  varied  slightly  at  different  times.  This  is  probably  due 
to  other  constituents  and  their  concentration  in  addition  to  the  red  cabbage 
coloring.  Temperature  and  time  of  standing  before  the  determinations  were 
made  also  affect  the  /)H. 

Usually  at  a  />H  of  2.4  to  about  4.0  the  color  is  red,  showing  gradual 
changes  through  blue-red,  purple  or  violet,  red-blue,  and  finally  blue.  These 
changes  occur  over  a  rather  wide  range  of  />H,  the  blue  developing  at 
/)H  6  or  above.  The  green  color  develops  with  greater  alkalinity  at  about 
/)H  7  to  9.  With  still  higher  concentrations  of  alkali  a  yellow  or  brown 
color  develops. 

If  red  cabbage  is  served  raw  with  a  salad  dressing  containing  acid  it  is 
bright  red  or  blue-red  in  color.  If  cooked  in  distilled  water,  it  is  violet 
or  violet-blue  in  color,  but  often  becomes  blue  after  standing  a  few  min- 
utes. With  a  slightly  alkaline  water  the  color  is  blue,  for  the  plant  acids 
lower  the  />H  of  the  water.  If  the  water  is  distinctly  alkaline  the  color 
becomes  green  if  cooked  about  15  minutes  or  longer.  The  addition  of  a 
little  soda  to  distilled  water,  Experiment  17B,  5,  gives  a  green  color  unless 
the  cooking  period  is  exceptionally  short.  The  red  vegetables  tend  to  retain 


120  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

their  color  better  when  cooked  in  milk  than  when  cooked  In  water.  Red 
onions  show  the  same  color  changes  as  red  cabbage,  but  the  colors  are  often 
muddy.  Red  cabbage  shows  color  changes  in  handling  it.  When  the  cut 
edges  of  the  cabbage  come  in  contact  with  the  hands  or  knife  they  turn 
blue.  Hands  and  knives  washed  in  hard  water  or  with  soap  may  have 
salts  with  an  alkaline  reaction  on  their  surface,  but  the  anthocyanins  can 
also  form  compounds  with  metallic  ions. 

Beets  do  not  develop  the  blue  or  green  color,  although  the  color  often 
contains  a  considerable  amount  of  blue  or  purple.  Sometimes  they  turn 
from  red  to  yellow  when  cooked.  If  the  cooked  beets  are  placed  in  acid, 
the  red  color  is  often  restored  after  a  short  time.  Blair  states  that  beets 
contain  two  pigments,  one  being  scarlet  the  other  purple.  The  scarlet 
pigment  is  stable  to  heat,  but  the  purple  one  fades.  The  scarlet  pigment 
is  stable  even  in  the  alkaline  range  as  far  as  pH  9  or,  according  to  Pratt 
and  Swartout,  even  at  pH  13.0.  The  color  of  canned  or  cooked  beets 
depends  upon  the  proportion  of  the  two  pigments  present  in  the  beets. 
This  is  probably  an  explanation  of  why  cooked  beets  vary  so  much  in 
color,  even  when  cooked  under  the  same  conditions  of  acidity,  temperature, 
and  time.  Beets  have  been  produced  in  which  the  scarlet  pigment  has  been 
increased  and  which  do  not  lose  color  when  canned  at  high  temperatures. 

Metals  and  anthocyan  pigments.  The  tin  salts  of  the  anthocyanins  have 
been  mentioned,  but  the  iron  salts  are  even  better  known.  In  general,  the 
iron  salts  of  anthocyanins  are  blue.  It  is  known  that  juice  from  blue 
hydrangeas  contains  a  higher  percentage  of  iron  than  that  from  pink 
hydrangeas  even  at  the  same  pH.  Some  anthocyanins  may  not  combine 
with  iron  or  other  modifications  may  occur  which  prevent  or  are  necessary 
for  the  development  of  the  blue  color,  for  if  some  anthocyanins  are  treated 
with  iron  salts  the  color  fades  or  remains  red.  Other  metals  which  may 
combine  with  the  anthocyanins  are  aluminum,  zinc,  and  lead.  Aluminum 
produces  about  the  same  colors  as  iron,  although  less  intense.  It  seems 
reasonable  to  expect  that,  if  certain  salts  are  present  in  the  vegetable  in  high 
concentration  or  are  furnished  by  the  cooking  water  or  the  cooking  utensil, 
they  will  modify  colors  obtained  at  a  given  pH  in  cooking.  Also,  the  blue 
color  that  develops  on  the  cut  surface  of  red  cabbage  in  a  short  time  after 
cutting  with  a  metal  knife  may  possibly  be  due  to  formation  of  anthocyanin 
salts  with  the  metal. 

Lathrop  states  that  both  iron  and  tin  are  "injurious  to  fruit  pigments. 
The  compounds  of  the  pigments  with  the  metals  become  quickly  oxidized 
on  exposure  to  air,  with  a  marked  increase  in  intensity  of  discoloration.  Tin 
turns  grapes,  cherries,  raspberries,  and  blackberries  a  deep  purple  and  straw- 
berries a  pale  red.  Iron  produces  dull  brownish  discolorations.  Copper  and 
aluminum  are  far  less  injurious  and  are  therefore  used  wherever  fruit  must 
come  in  contact  with  metal.  Copper  being  somewhat  injurious  to  the  color 
of  grape,  aluminum  is  usually  used  with  grape." 

The  application  of  this  knowledge  comes  in  cooking  fruits,   preserves. 


REACTIONS  OF  THE  TANNINS  121 

and  jellies.  Since  tin  cooking  utensils  are  seldom  used  in  household  cooking, 
this  metal  would  be  injurious  to  color  of  fruits  when  used  in  taking  seeds 
from  berries  with  tin  colanders,  or  when  such  fruits  are  canned  in  un- 
lacquered  tin.  Iron  might  affect  the  color  of  fruits,  if  such  fruits  are 
cooked  in  utensils  from  which  the  enamel  has  been  chipped. 

Tannins 

The  term  tannin  is  sometimes  used  to  denote  a  whole  group  of  substances 
having  certain  characteristics  in  common.  Sometimes  it  is  used  to  denote 
a  particular  substance,  i.e.,  gallotanic  or  digallic  acid.  The  former  is  the 
meaning  used  in  the  following  paragraphs. 

The  tannins  are  widely  distributed  in  the  higher  plants.  Some  plants 
are  very  rich  in  them;  others  contain  very  little.  The  amount  in  the  plant 
will  vary  with  different  years  and  growing  conditions.  The  tannins  are 
found  throughout  the  plant,  but  the  woody  part,  the  stems,  and  rootstocks 
are  likely  to  contain  larger  amounts.  They  are  found  in  many  fruits,  espe- 
cially during  the  immature  or  green  stages,  and  in  the  seeds  of  several  plants. 
Lathrop  states  that  stemming  of  grapes  prior  to  heating  for  juice  extraction 
is  advisable  to  get  rid  of  astringent  tannin  of  the  stems  which  would  be 
detrimental  to  flavor. 

To  some  extent  the  tannin  content  of  fruit  is  not  only  dependent  upon 
environmental  influences,  but  upon  inherited  characteristics.  The  New  York 
Experiment  Station  has  reported  a  variety  of  peach  called  Sunbeam,  which 
does  not  turn  brown  when  pared.  Kertesz  reports  its  tannin  content  as 
very  low,  0.0076  per  cent. 

Reactions  of  the  tannins.  Thatcher  states  that  chemically  the  "Tan- 
nins are  either  free  phenol-acids,  or,  more  commonly,  glucosides  of  these 
acids."  The  structure  of  the  tannins  is  very  similar  to  that  of  the  anthocyan 
pigments.  They  are  divided  into  two  general  classes,  known  as  the  pyro- 
gallol  tannins  and  the  catechol  tannins.  Thatcher  has  reported  the  following 
characteristic  reactions. 

Pyrogallol  Variety  Catechol  Variety 

Ferric  salts Dark  blue  Greenish  black 

Bromine  water No  precipitate  Yellow  or  brown 

precipitate 

Leather Produces  bloom  No  bloom 

Concentrated  sulfuric  acid Yellow  or  brown  Red  or  Pink 

Lime  water Gray  or  blue  Pink  or  brown 

precipitate  precipitate 

Haas  and  Hill  summarize  the  properties  of  the  tannins  under  eight 
headings.  Only  five  will  be  given  here. 

1.  Tannins   are   mostly    uncrystallizable    colloidal    substances    with    as- 
tringent properties. 


122  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

2.  They  give   blackish-blue   or   blackish-green   colors   with    ferric   salts, 

a  fact  made  use  of  in  the  manufacture  of  ink. 

3.  In  alkaline  solution  the  tannins  and  many  of  their  derivatives  readily 

absorb  oxygen  becoming  dark  in  color. 

4.  They  precipitate  gelatin  from  solution  and  form  insoluble  compounds 

w^ith   gelatin-yielding   tissues,    a   property   which    enables    them    to 
convert  hide  into  leather. 

5.  They  are  precipitated  from  solution  by  many  metallic  salts  such  as 

copper  or  lead  acetates,  or  stannous  chloride. 

Astringent  qualities  due  to  tannins.  The  astringent  properties  give 
a  slightly  bitter  taste  to  some  foods,  the  degree  depending  on  the  amount 
of  tannins  present.  Thatcher  states  that  "Tannins  are  of  frequent  occur- 
rence in  green  fruits  imparting  to  them  their  characteristic  taste.  They 
nearly  always  disappear  as  the  fruit  ripens."  Two  explanations  are  sug- 
gested for  the  disappearance  of  the  tannins  in  ripening  fruit.  The  anthocyan 
pigments  may  be  derived  from  the  tannins,  so  that  as  the  fruit  colors  the 
tannins  disappear ;  or  the  tannins  may  be  changed  into  an  insoluble  form 
and  therefore  are  not  so  apparent  to  the  taste. 

Persimmons  contain  a  very  large  amount  of  tannin.  Green  persimmons 
have  a  bitter,  astringent,  puckery  taste,  that  is  not  easily  forgotten,  once 
they  have  been  tasted.  Gore's  work  has  shown  that  most  of  the  tannin  of 
persimmons  is  enclosed  in  cells,  which  he  terms  giant  tannin  cells.  By  arti- 
ficial processing  in  carbon  dioxide,  or  by  ripening,  the  membrane  containing 
the  tannins  becomes  hard  and  insoluble  so  that  the  astringent  taste  is  not 
evident. 

Blue  or  purple  discoloration  in  English  walnuts.  English  walnuts 
are  more  astringent  than  other  nuts  and  often  develop  color  changes  that 
are  unattractive  when  combined  with  other  foods.  When  they  are  combined 
with  apples  in  a  salad  they  often  develop  a  blackish  blue  or  purple  color. 
This  may  come  from  having  prepared  the  apples  with  an  iron  knife,  the 
acid  and  enzyme  of  the  fruit  acting  on  the  iron  to  produce  ferric  salts. 
When  this  small  amount  of  ferric  salt  comes  in  contact  with  the  tannin  of 
the  nut  and  particularly  with  the  skin  the  purplish  color  develops.  In  nut 
bread,  English  walnuts  often  produce  a  dark  color. 

Tannins  may  produce  a  gray  shade  in  sugar.  Zerban  has  found 
that  the  color  of  dark  greenish  cane  juice,  which  produces  a  sugar  with 
a  gray  shade,  may  be  due  to  tannins,  oxidizing  enzymes,  and  iron.  When 
the  cane  is  crushed  the  acid  of  the  juice  forms  some  ferrous  salts  with  the 
iron  of  the  roller.  Oxidizing  enzymes  of  the  juice  oxidize  the  ferrous  salts 
to  ferric  ones  and  they  combine  with  the  tannins  of  the  juice.  A  similar 
change  occurs  when  fruits  are  pared  with  iron  knives  and  especially  when 
the  juice  is  left  to  stand  on  the  knife  and  it  darkens. 

Tannins  and  discolorations  in  canned  goods.  Kohman  has  reported 
that  the  discoloration,  a  darkening  in  color,  often  found  in  spots  in  canned 


ENZYMES  123 

sweet  potatoes  is  due  to  tannins.  The  tannin  combines  with  the  iron  of  the 
can  to  produce  the  dark  color.  Oxygen  is  necessary  to  oxidize  the  ferrous 
iron  to  ferric,  so  that,  unless  oxygen  is  found  in  the  can,  either  through  not 
exhausting  all  of  the  air  in  processing  or  to  a  leak  in  the  can,  the  dis- 
coloration does  not  occur. 

Salsify  probably  contains  large  amounts  of  tannic  substances.  It  turns 
dark  when  peeled  even  if  put  under  water  unless  a  little  vinegar  is  added 
to  the  water  to  acidify  it.  Salsify  or  oyster  plant  and  sometimes  other 
vegetables  such  as  carrots  stain  the  fingers  when  they  are  pared.  This  may 
be  due  in  part  to  tannins.  Lemon  juice  is  effective  in  removing  or  lightening 
such  stains  because  of  its  acidity. 

Other  discolorations  with  tannins.  Brownish  or  black  discolorations 
of  vegetables  in  vinegar  have  been  caused  by  the  tannin  of  the  vinegar 
combining  with  the  iron  of  the  food.  The  use  of  a  tannin-free  vinegar 
does  away  with  this  difficulty.  Greenish  black  spots  in  chocolate  ice  cream 
were  traced  to  the  tannin  supplied  by  the  chocolate  or  cocoa  and  the  iron 
from  rusty  spots  in  the  can.  In  green-colored  beer  the  iron  came  from 
exposed  pipes,  the  tannin  from  the  hops. 

According  to  Atwater,  cherry  juice,  now  commercially  marketed,  when 
mixed  with  gelatin  for  a  molded  dessert,  sometimes  gave  a  gummy,  purplish 
precipitate.  The  precipitate  was  caused  from  combination  of  the  tannin  of 
the  juice  with  the  protein,  gelatin;  the  purplish  color  came  from  combina- 
tion with  metals. 

Discoloration  of  pared  fruit,  considered  at  greater  length  in  the  next 
section,  is  caused  by  tannin  compounds  in  combination  with  enzyme  action. 

Tea.  Black  tea  is  darker  than  green  tea  because  of  oxidation  of  tannins 
in  the  leaf  during  drying  and  fermentation.  It  is  also  less  astringent  than 
green  tea  because  the  tannins  are  in  a  less  soluble  form. 

Tannins  also  give  precipitates  of  calcium,  magnesium,  and  iron  tannates, 
when  these  minerals  are  present  .in  the  water.  The  film  on  coffee  or  tea  is 
from  these  tannates.  When  lemon  or  orange  is  added  to  tea,  the  film  usu- 
ally disappears,  for  in  acid  the  tannins  often  lose  the  darker  color  acquired 
in  an  alkaline  medium. 

Tannins  lower  the  surface  tension  of  water,  and  the  water  in  which 
vegetables  containing  tannins  are  cooked  is  apt  to  froth  or  foam. 

Enzymes 

Enzymes  control  many  of  the  complex  chemical  processes  of  plant  metab- 
olism. They  accelerate  reactions  which  would  otherwise  take  place  very 
slowly,  and  though  they  may  initiate  the  reaction,  do  not  form  part  of  its 
final  product.  Reactions  of  several  enzymes  have  been  mentioned.  A  large 
number  of  the  enzymes  are  hydrolytic,  including  the  proteinases,  lipases, 
amylases,  and  others;  but  there  are  also  oxidizing  and  reducing  and  other 
groups  of  enzymes.  Some  of  the  plant  enzymes  that  digest  proteins  are 


124  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

of  slight  interest  in  cookery.  An  enzyme  of  the  pitcher-plant  hydrolyzes 
fibrin.  Bromelin  of  pineapple  acts  on  native  proteins,  its  effect  being  more 
often  noticed  in  cookery  when  uncooked  pineapple  is  added  to  gelatin, 
which  is  liquefied.  Papain  of  the  papaw  leaf  acts  on  native  proteins.  Some 
experiments  were  tried  at  the  Office  of  Home  Economics  to  utilize  the 
papaw  leaf,  the  dried  powdered  leaf,  or  the  extracted  enzyme  to  render 
tough  meat  tender.  These  did  not  indicate  that  papain  could  be  successfully 
used  in  this  way,  as  the  enzyme  acted  on  the  surface,  powdering  or  pul- 
verizing it  in  only  a  thin  layer  even  after  being  in  contact  with  the  meat 
for  several  hours,  the  interior  of  the  meat  not  being  affected. 

Oxidizing  enzymes.  The  oxidizing  enzymes  are  concerned  with  the 
processes  of  oxidation  and  reduction  in  the  plant  cells.  They  are  the  cause 
of  some  of  the  brown  color  changes  in  fruits  and  vegetables  when  they  are 
bruised  or  pared.  The  principal  enzymes  that  produce  the  color  changes 
are  the  peroxidases,  the  oxidases  (classed  as  laccases  or  phenolases  by  some 
authors),  and  tyrosinase.  The  internal  browning  of  fruits  when  injured 
involves  oxidation  as  a  primary  step.  But  the  oxidation  requires  peroxide 
oxygen. 

Peroxidases  will  decompose  hydrogen  peroxide  giving  "active"  (atomic) 
oxygen.  They  are  practically  always  present  in  the  cells  of  the  higher  plants. 

Onslow  states  that  fruits  and  vegetables  containing  only  peroxidases  do 
not  brown  when  injured.  She  reports  the  following  of  the  oxidases.  The 
oxidases  are  present  in  about  63  per  cent  of  the  higher  plants.  A  plant 
oxidase  is  made  up  of  three  components :  ( 1 )  An  enzyme,  termed  oxy- 
genase, (2)  an  aromatic  substance  containing  an  ortho-dihydroxy  grouping 
such  as  that  in  catechol,  and  (3)  a  peroxidase. 


\ 

Catechol 


OH 


OH 


There  may  be  several  'substances  with  the  catechol  grouping,  i.e.,  two 
hydroxyl  groups  in  the  ortho  position,  found  in  plants.  If  the  substances 
with  the  catechol  grouping  are  present  in  plant  tissue,  but  enzymes  are  not 
present,  browning  of  the  tissue  in  injury  takes  place  slowly,  but  with 
oxygenase  and  peroxidase  oxidation  occurs  rapidly  and  the  material  turns 
brown  on  injury.  Onslow  has  reported  that  apples,  apricots,  cherries,  grapes, 
figs,  mulberries,  pears,  plums,  peaches,  potatoes,  and  strawberries  all  con- 
tain oxidases.  Bananas  sometimes  contain  substances  with  the  catechol 
grouping,  and  sometimes  they  are  absent  from  the  flesh  but  are  found  in 
the  skin.  Oranges,  lemons,  limes,  and  raspberries  do  not  contain  all  three 


PREVENTION  OF  BROWNING  125 

components  of  the  oxidase  system,  and  the  following  contain  only  a  peroxi- 
dase: blackberries,  pineapple,  melon,  and  tomatoes. 

Zerban  found  that  the  polyphenols  in  cane  juice  may  be  oxidized  by 
enzymes  to  a  brown  color,  and  to  a  less  extent  tyrosin  may  be  oxidized 
by  tyrosinase,  giving  a  dark  color. 

Discoloration  in  pared  foods.  Pared  potatoes,  apples  and  some  other 
foods  will  turn  dark  unless  cooked  or  put  under  water.  The  cooking  de- 
stroys the  enzymes,  and  putting  under  water  prevents  the  oxygen  of  the 
air  from  coming  in  contact  with  the  food.  This  darkening  may  be  due  to 
tannic  substances  which  contain  a  catechol  group  or  oxidases  or  both.  It  may 
also  be  due  to  the  flavone  and  anthocyan  pigments,  as  many  of  them  show  the 
black  reaction  typical  of  tannins  since  they  have  the  same  chemical  linkage. 

Fresh  peaches,  pears,  apricots,  apples,  bananas,  etc.,  that  are  to  be  used 
for  a  salad  and  would  lose  sugar  if  kept  in  water  may  be  pared  six  to 
eight  hours  before  serving  and  kept  from  turning  brown  by  being  dipped 
in  lemon  or  pineapple  juice  and  put  away  in  a  covered  fruit  jar. 

Although  the  writer  has  used  lemon  and  pineapple  juice  for  years  to 
prevent  discoloration  of  freshly  pared  fruits,  the  reason  for  this,  other 
than  increased  acidity,  which  did  not  entirely  explain  the  results  (pine- 
apple juice  was  less  acid  and  more  efficient  than  lemon  juice),  was  not 
known  until  the  work  of  Balls  and  Hale  was  published. 

Cruess,  Mark,  and  Quinn  state  that  the  oxidase  of  peaches  is  not  all 
destroyed  by  blanching  at  120°  to  160°F.,  thus  causing  internal  browning 
with  the  formation  of  crescent  shaped  areas  often  seen  in  sliced  peaches. 
To  destroy  the  action  of  the  oxidase  of  large  peach  halves  requires  heating 
for  10  minutes  at  180°  to  200°F.  These  investigators  state  that  fruit 
acids  such  as  citric  and  tartaric  are  not  so  effective  as  hydrochloric  acid  in 
retarding  browning.  Oxidation  was  completely  held  in  check  by  0.25  per 
cent  of  hydrochloric  acid,  so  that  this  concentration  on  the  surface  of  the 
peach  would  prevent  browning.  Salt  and  other  chlorides  will  check  brown- 
ing temporarily;  but,  after  standing  in  a  2-per  cent  salt  brine,  the  fruit 
must  be  rinsed  to  remove  the  flavor  of  salt. 

Prevention  of  browning  by  reducing  substances.  Joslyn  and 
Marsh  state  that  the  primary  oxidation  step  may  be  prevented  by  removal 
of  oxygen  or  the  addition  of  reducing  substances.  And  without  oxidation 
browning  does  not  occur.  Sulfites  and  stannous  salts  are  good  reducing 
substances.  Sulfur  dioxide  has  been  used  for  many  years  to  prevent  dis- 
coloration. They  state  that  orange  juice  does  not  brown  at  high  or  low 
temperatures  when  stored  in  tin  cans.  The  reason  given  is  absence  of 
oxygen  and  the  reducing  action  of  stannous  salts.  The  addition  of  ferrous 
salts  in  concentrations  of  25  parts  per  million  to  the  orange  juice  increased 
browning.  Ferrous  salts  were  more  effective  than  ferric  salts.  Nickel, 
copper,  or  stannic  salts  were  without  effect,  but  stannous  salts  and  sulfites 
protected   against   browning.    However,    after   these   salts  were   oxidized, 


126  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

then  browning  of  the  juice  could  occur.  The  addition  of  analine  or  trypto- 
phane caused  immediate  browning. 

Balls  and  Hale  found  that  sulfhydryl  compounds,  some  of  which  occur 
in  common  foods,  prevent  browning  of  apples.  Gluthathione  and  cystein 
prevent  darkening  of  the  apples  even  when  applied  in  very  dilute  concen- 
tration. Pineapple  juice  contains  a  sulfhydryl  compound  which  is  the  cause 
for  its  inhibition  of  development  of  brown  color. 

Oxidation  and  color  loss.  A  type  of  oxidation  that  causes  fading  of 
red  fruits  in  canning  is  explained  by  Kohman  and  Sandborn.  All  fruits  and 
vegetables  use  oxygen  in  respiration,  and  some  oxygen  is  found  within  the 
fruit  or  vegetable.  The  color  of  strawberries  is  deadened  if  they  are  heated 
very  rapidly  after  refrigeration,  during  which  the  respiratory  processes 
have  been  inhibited.  However,  if  they  are  heated  slowly  so  that  the  interior 
oxygen  is  used  in  respiration  the  color  remains  bright. 

Sulfur  Compounds  of  Plants 

Sulfur  compounds  are  present  in  the  plant  in  three  forms :  in  the  amino 
acids  of  proteins,  i.e.,  cystine,  methionine,  and  others ;  volatile  compounds ; 
and  sulfates. 

It  is  known  that  a  portion  of  the  protein  sulfur  is  readily  split  off  at 
boiling  or  higher  temperatures.  Peterson  found  volatile  sulfur  in  clover, 
beet  tops,  blue  grass,  and  milk.  This  was  unexpected,  and  he  suggests  that 
it  may  come  from  two  sources,  volatile  sulfur  compounds  in  the  materials 
used,  or  from  the. splitting  off  of  sulfur  from  the  protein  and  the  formation 
of  hydrogen  sulfide.  He  thinks  the  latter  the  more  probable  explanation. 
He  found  a  larger  percentage  of  volatile  sulfur  compounds  in  plants  grown 
in  a  sulfur-rich  soil  than  in  those  grown  in  a  sulfur-poor  soil. 

Volatile  sulfur  compounds.  The  volatile  sulfur  compounds  are 
found  in  the  plants  as  glucosides.  When  treated  with  acid  or  alkali  and 
when  acted  upon  by  enzymes,  these  glucosides  yield  a  sugar  or  some  closely 
allied  carbohydrate  and  one  or  more  other  substances,  frequently  phenols, 
allyl  sulfide,  or  allyl  isothiocyanate.  Most  of  the  investigations  of  sulfur- 
splitting  enzymes  have  been  made  upon  myrosin.  The  strong  flavor  of  old 
or  stored  turnips,  rutabagas,  and  cabbage  is  probably  largely  due  to  setting 
free  of  sulfur  compounds  by  enzymes.  When  they  are  cooked,  plant  acids 
are  liberated  which  cause  hydrolysis  of  the  volatile  sulfur  compounds.  In 
addition,  hydrogen  sulfide  is  formed  by  decomposition  of  the  sulfur  com- 
pounds by  heat. 

The  odor  of  many  of  these  compounds  is  familiar,  those  of  onions  and 
garlic,  cooking  cabbage,  etc.,  being  typical  examples. 

Allyl  isothiocyanate  is  found  in  mustard  seed.  It  is  prepared  commer- 
cially by  macerating  the  seed,  the  enzyme  then  splitting  off  the  sulfur  of 
the  glucoside.  The  oil  is  then  obtained   by  distillation  with  steam.  Allyl 


SULFUR  COMPOUNDS  127 

sulfide  IS  found  in  the  onion  family,  and  is  prepared  commercially  from 
garlic.  The  strong  flavor  of  onions,  leeks,  and  garlic  depends  upon  the 
concentration  of  allyl  sulfide. 

These  volatile  compounds  escape  from  the  food  more  rapidly  with  rise 
in  temperature  and  breakdown  of  the  plant  cells.  Hence,  the  longer  onions, 
leeks,  and  garlic  are  cooked  the  milder  their  flavor  becomes.  Also  because 
finely  minced  onion  has  a  greater  surface  area  for  volatilization  to  occur 
than  when  cut  in  large  pieces,  these  substances  volatilize  more  rapidly 
from  finely  cut  pieces.  This  is  why  it  is  preferable  to  add  onion  juice,  very 
finely  minced  onion,  or  cooked  onion  to  some  foods  that  are  not  cooked 
long  or  that  do  not  reach  a  high  temperature,  such  as  hamburger  or  stuff- 
ing for  fowl  or  meat.  Large  pieces  of  raw  onion  in  a  stuffing  produce  a 
very  strong  onion  flavor,  more  concentrated  in  some  areas  than  others, 
instead  of  a  subtle,  well-blended  flavor,  for  the  stuffing  never  reaches  boil- 
ing temperature. 

The  amount  of  onion  and/or  garlic  added,  the  fineness  of  division  of 
the  pieces,  and  the  length  of  cooking  all  affect  the  flavor  of  the  finished 
product  to  which  they  are  added.  The  flavor  of  a  food  like  catsup  or  chili 
sauce  may  be  ruined  by  adding  a  large  quantity  of  onion  or  garlic  in  large 
pieces  near  the  end  of  the  cooking  process.  The  same  amount  of  onion 
or  garlic  added  in  small  pieces,  or  added  in  large  pieces  early  in  the  cook- 
ing process,  could  blend  with,  instead  of  dominate,  the  flavor  of  the  other 
ingredients. 

Sulfur  compounds  and  the  cooking  o£  vegetables.  It  is  com- 
monly known  that  long  cooking  of  some  vegetables  such  as  cabbage,  turnips, 
cauliflower,  and  Brussels  sprouts  develops  strong,  disagreeable  flavors,  and 
the  eating  of  these  vegetables  may  cause  discomfort  and  digestive  dis- 
turbances. The  longer  cooking  and  stronger  flavor  are  accompanied  by 
increased  acidity  of  the  vegetable.  The  length  of  time  of  cooking  for  the 
strong  flavor  to  develop  varies  with  the  vegetable,  whether  the  cooking  is 
started  in  cold  or  boiling  water,  and  the  proportion  of  vegetable  to  water. 

Simpson  and  Halliday  have  determined  the  total  volatile  sulfur  and 
hydrogen  sulfide  evolved  when  cabbage  and  cauliflower  are  cooked  for 
different  lengths  of  time.  They  found  that  the  most  acceptable  product  is 
obtained  when  winter  cabbage  is  boiled  7  to  8  minutes,  and  spring  cabbage 
5  minutes.  Cauliflower  required  8  minutes  to  become  tender.  They  con- 
clude that  with  prolonged  cooking  the  decomposition  products  of  sulfur 
compounds  increase,  and  that  these  products  produce  the  strong  taste  and 
odor  associated  with  cabbage  and  cauliflower. 

Simpson  and  Halliday  report  that  the  amount  of  hydrogen  sulfide  in- 
creases from  the  fifth  to  the  twentieth  minute  of  boiling  cabbage,  and  the 
total  volatile  sulfur  between  the  seventh  and  thirtieth  minutes.  Cauliflower 
gives  off  more  volatile  substances  in  the  same  period  than  cabbage.  Masters 
and  Garbutt  have  found  that  the  amount  of  sulfide  increases  up  to  a  cer- 


128  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

tain  point  and  then  decreases,  becoming  fairly  constant.  Kohman  states  that 
in  corn  the  amount  of  hydrogen  sulfide  evolved  is  greater  during  the  first 
half  hour  and  decreases  with  each  succeeding  half  hour. 

Shilling  in  determining  the  amount  of  hydrogen  sulfide  formed  in  cook- 
ing cabbage  finds  that  it  varies  from  1  to  7  milligrams  per  300  grams  of 
fresh  cabbage.  The  wide  variation  depends  upon  the  amount  of  green 
compared  with  the  white,  the  speed  of  cooking,  the  length  of  time  of 
cooking,  and  the  temperature  involved  in  the  method,  i.e.,  boiling  in  water 
and  the  pressure  cooker. 

Bigelow  has  reported  that  the  black  spotting  on  the  corn  around  the 
edges  of  the  can  in  canned  corn  is  due  to  the  formation  of  hydrogen  sulfide 
in  processing.  The  am.ount  of  sulfide  is  very  small  and  there  is  no  objection 
to  it  except  from  appearance.  Stevenson  states  that  iron  sulfide  is  formed 
to  a  greater  extent  in  canned  peas  than  in  canned  corn.  It  is  not  so  notice- 
able in  peas  on  account  of  their  color.  In  peas  it  is  deposited  as  scales  that 
break  up  easily  in  shipping  and  handling. 

Flavor 

The  flavors  of  fruits  and  vegetables  are  due  to  several  constituents,  sugar, 
organic  acids,  mineral  salts,  and  aromatic  compounds. 

Sugar  is  found  in  fruits  and  vegetables.  Beets,  carrots,  onions,  peas,  and 
other  vegetables  contain  appreciable  amounts.  In  vegetables  like  peas  and 
corn  the  sugar  is  deposited  as  the  insoluble  carbohydrate,  starch,  in  the 
mature  seed.  Immature  peas  and  corn  deteriorate  rapidly  in  sugar  content 
after  they  are  gathered.  Kertesz  reports  that  starch  increases  and  sugar 
decreases  in  stored  fresh  peas,  but  the  sugar  loss  is  not  due  to  the  trans- 
formation of  sugar  to  starch.  It  is  suggested  that  the  apparent  increase  of 
starch  content  is  because  of  loss  of  other  constituents;  and,  whereas  the 
loss  of  the  sugar  is  not  satisfactorily  clarified,  it  may  be  consumed  in 
respiration.  Losses  in  sugar  content  can  be  prevented  by  inactivation  of 
the  respiratory  enzymes  by  blanching,  cooking,  or  storing  near  freezing 
temperatures. 

The  vegetables  with  a  fairly  high  sugar  content  usually  have  a  sweeter 
flavor  if  steamed  or  if  just  enough  water  is  used  to  cook  them  and  it  is 
evaporated  to  dryness  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period.  Even  mild-flavored 
onions  may  be  sweeter  and  better  flavored  if  the  water  is  evaporated  than 
when  an  excess  is  left.  But  there  seem  to  be  some  exceptions  to  most  rules, 
and  the  choice  of  method  of  cooking  is  often  a  matter  of  judgment  or 
circumstance.  More  could  be  written  about  flavor,  but  it  has  been  men- 
tioned so  often  in  connection  with  different  constituents  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  that  a  great  deal  would  be  repetition. 

A  combination  of  sugar,  acids,  and  aromatic  substances  gives  flavors  that 
render  fruits  and  vegetables  palatable  and  attractive  food  products. 


EFFECTS  OF  ALKALIES,  ACIDS,  AND  CALCIUM      129 

Aromatic  compounds.  This  classification  is  not  given  as  a  plant 
chemistry  one,  but  as  a  group  to  include  all  substances  that  may  give 
characteristic  odor  and  thus  flavor  to  foods. 

Many  of  the  aromatic  compounds  are  esters,  like  amyl  acetate,  which 
gives  a  characteristic  odor  to  pears  and  is  called  *'pear  oil."  The  odor  of 
pineapple  is  due  to  methylbutyrate,  w^hich  is  designated  "pineapple-oil." 
Isoamyl  isovalerate  produces  the  characteristic  odor  of  apples. 

Thatcher  includes  all  the  substances  that  give  characteristic  odor  to 
plants  under  the  term  "essential  oils  and  resins."  Some  of  these  substances 
are  terpenes,  alcohols  derived  from  terpenes,  the  phenols,  and  sulfuretted 
oils.  Oils  of  lemon,  peppermint,  cinnamon,  clove,  lavender,  and  others  are 
classified  as  essential  oils. 

AUyl  isosulfocyanide,  oil  of  mustard,  and  allyl  sulfide,  oil  of  garlic,  con- 
stitute the  best  known  of  the  oils  containing  sulfur. 

Tannins  impart  an  astringent,  bitter  flavor  to  some  foods. 

Cellulose 

Cellulose  forms  the  structural,  fiber,  or  woody  part  of  the  plant.  Other 
substances  such  as  pectic  substances  may  occur  in  combination  with  cellu- 
lose. In  the  young  plants  or  the  new  growth  of  older  plants  the  cell  walls 
are  at  first  yielding.  As  they  mature,  they  grow  more  resistant  and  may 
change  physically  and  chemically,  their  function  becoming  more  specialized 
with  the  occurring  changes.  In  tree  trunks  some  cell  walls  become  woody 
or  lignified.  Doree  and  Barton-Wright  state  that  the  stone  cells  distributed 
throughout  the  flesh  and  particularly  near  the  core  of  pears  are  lignified 
cellulose. 

Cellulose  is  a  carbohydrate.  It  is  found  in  plants  in  several  forms.  There 
is  no  unanimity  of  opinion  regarding  its  definition,  although  the  cotton  fiber 
is  always  taken  as  a  standard  cellulose  product. 

Hemlcellulose,  wood  cellulose,  and  gelatinized  cellulose  are  names  given 
to  different  forms  of  cellulose.  Probably  each  group  includes  several  prod- 
ucts. Schorger  defines  hemicellulose  as  "A  polysaccharide  soluble  in  dilute 
alkalies  and  convertible  into  simple  sugars  by  heating  with  dilute  acids 
at  atmospheric  pressure."  He  adds  that  a  hemicellulose  in  the  natural  state 
should  be  insoluble  in  boiling  water. 

Effects  of  alkalies,  acids,  and  calcium  on  the  structural  or 
woody  part  of  fruits  and  vegetables.  Ammonia  and  sodium  bicar- 
bonate added  to  the  water  in  which  vegetables  are  boiled,  or  ammonia  or 
ammonium  carbonate  added  to  water  in  which  vegetables  are  steamed, 
causes  them  to  soften  in  a  shorter  time  than  if  these  substances  had  not 
been  added.  With  longer  cooking  the  vegetable  becomes  mushy  and  dis- 
integrates. The  disintegration  begins  with  the  surface  layer  of  the  food, 
and  its  depth  depends  on  the  length  of  time  of  cooking  and  the  size  of 
the  piece  of  food. 


130  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

If  vinegar  is  added  to  the  water  in  which  vegetables  are  cooked  the 
effect  is  opposite  from  that  of  sodium  bicarbonate :  a  firmer  and  more  solid 
texture  is  obtained  and  the  vegetable  requires  longer  to  cook.  In  cooking 
vegetables  like  cabbage  and  spinach  the  amount  of  calcium  and  magnesium 
salts  found  in  the  water  seems  to  have  little  effect  upon  the  texture  or  the 
length  of  time  for  cooking. 

The  pulp  and  white  part  of  the  rind  of  watermelon  as  well  as  the  pulp 
of  muskmelon  or  cantaloupe,  and  perhaps  other  foods,  can  be  made  very 
firm  and  brittle  or  woody  if  soaked  in  saturated  calcium  hydroxide  (lime) 
water.  The  longer  they  are  soaked  the  harder  and  firmer  they  become  if 
the  water  is  kept  saturated  with  lime.  Five  to  six  hours'  soaking  is  usually 
sufficient  to  produce  enough  firmness  to  prevent  shriveling  when  cooked 
in  sirups  for  preserves  or  pickle.  The  melon  pulp  may  be  cooked  in  water 
until  transparent  and  tender,  then  put  in  lime  water  to  harden,  and  finally 
cooked  in  a  sirup.  Or  cooking  first  in  only  water  does  not  prevent  harden- 
ing of  the  pulp  by  calcium.  The  few  times  that  cucumbers  have  been  soaked 
in  lime  water  either  slight  or  no  hardening  occurred.  But  other  calcium 
compounds  such  as  calcium  chloride  do  produce  hardening  in  pickles. 

Pickles.  Cucumber  pickles  are  seldom  made  in  class  work;  but  why 
brined  pickles  spoil  is  a  perennial  question.  Rahn  has  offered  a  solution  of 
the  difficulty.  An  abstract  of  his  work  follows. 

The  inside  of  the  cucumber  is  free  of  bacteria,  but  the  brine  into  which 
the  cucumbers  are  placed  contains  several  thousand  bacteria  per  cubic 
centimeter.  There  are  many  different  kinds  of  bacteria  present  in  the 
beginning  but  with  the  strength  of  brine  maintained  most  of  them  die. 
However,  a  few  kinds  that  thrive  in  the  brine  survive.  Fresh  brine  con- 
tains no  food  for  bacteria.  But  with  placing  of  the  pickles  in  brine,  or  the 
formation  of  brine  by  adding  dry  salt  to  cucumbers,  small  amounts  of 
sugar  and  other  bacterial  food  are  dissolved  from  the  cucumbers  as  they 
shrink.  Hence  bacteria  that  can  tolerate  salt  grow  and  decompose  the  sugar. 
The  resulting  decomposition  products  of  the  sugar  are  acid  and  gas.  The 
gas  produces  froth.  The  acid,  probably  mostly  lactic,  is  very  important, 
for  the  keeping  of  the  pickles  depends  upon  it.  The  concentration  of  the 
acid  is  rather  high  when  frothing  ceases,  varying  from  0.6  to  1.2  per  cent. 
The  acid  is  a  fairly  good  disinfectant  and  practically  all  bacteria  in  the 
brine  are  killed. 

In  addition  to  bacteria,  yeasts  are  present  in  the  brine;  but  because  they 
need  oxygen  they  grow  principally  on  the  surface.  The  scum  yeast  feed 
on  the  acid  of  the  brine  and  decompose  it,  thus  decreasing  the  quantity  of 
acid  in  the  tank  or  container.  If  scum  grows  long  enough,  all  the  acid  is 
destroyed  and  then  the  pickles  become  slippery,  soft,  and  mushy.  It  is  better 
not  to  stir  the  pickles  too  much  after  they  are  in  the  brine,  for  the  acid 
tends  to  stay  at  the  bottom  of  the  container  and  the  yeasts  grow  at  the 
surface. 


EFFECT  OF  SUGAR  ON  THE  FIRMNESS  OF  FRUIT  131 

There  are  two  periods  when  the  acid  is  low,  and  these  stages  are  the 
periods  of  greatest  danger  in  fermenting  pickles.  The  first  stage  is  before 
fermentation  has  started  and  no  or  little  acid  has  been  formed ;  the  second 
is  after  the  acid  has  been  used  up  by  scum  yeast,  for  spoilage  only  occurs 
when  the  acidity  of  the  brine  is  sufficiently  low.  The  slipperiness  and  soft- 
ness are  caused  by  so-called  potato  bacteria,  which  resist  the  salt  well 
but  do  not  tolerate  acid.  Because  oxygen  is  necessary  for  their  growth  and 
the  bacteria  only  grow  at  the  surface,  the  pickles  protruding  from  the  brine 
become  soft.  These  potato  bacteria  can  cause  great  loss  and  damage  before 
a  concentration  of  acid  great  enough  to  delay  their  growth  is  formed. 
A  single  potato  bacterium,  if  all  conditions  are  favorable,  produces  from 
10  to  100  million  new  bacteria  in  24  hours. 

Hence,  to  prevent  spoilage  all  pickles  should  be  kept  under  the  brine. 
Some  acid  or  vinegar  can  be  added  with  the  brine  to  prevent  spoilage. 
It  has  been  interesting  to  see  that  this  has  been  advocated  for  commercial 
practise  since  Rahn's  work  was  published.  Other  methods  of  preventing 
growth  of  the  yeast  are  to  keep  the  container  in  the  sunlight  or  irradiate 
with  ultra-violet  light,  both  of  which  are  not  practical  in  the  home.  After 
fermentation  is  complete,  that  is,  after  frothing  has  ceased,  oil  or  paraffin 
may  be  used  over  the  surface  of  the  brine.  Since  the  oil  is  rather  difficult 
to  wash  from  the  pickles,  paraffin  is  preferable. 

Crisping  pickles.  Calcium  chloride  is  used  to  make  pickles  crisp  or  firm. 
It  is  used  either  in  the  last  soaking  water,  when  the  brine  is  being  removed, 
or  added  directly  to  the  sweetened  vinegar.  The  proportion  used  is  one 
pound  per  barrel  of  pickles. 

The  hardening  may  come  from  the  calcium  combining  with  the  cellulose 
or  it  may  combine  with  acid  of  the  pickle  or  melon  or  be  deposited  as 
calcium  salts  in  the  food.  Some  factors  other  than  the  ones  mentioned  may 
cause  the  hardening. 

The  effect  of  sugar  on  the  firmness  of  fruit.  The  effect  of  sugar 
of  course  varies  somewhat  with  the  amount  used  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity  of  fruit.  Osmosis  occurs  when  a  sirup  has  greater  sugar  concentra- 
tion than  that  of  the  fruit  to  which  it  is  added.  The  vapor  pressure  of 
the  sirup  solution  is  lower  than  that  of  the  fruit  so  that  water  passes 
from  the  fruit  to  the  sirup.  This  transfer  from  a  region  of  high  concen- 
tration to  a  low  one  is  called  osmosis.  If  a  membrane  separates  the  regions 
of  high  and  low  concentrations  it  is  dependent  upon  the  membrane  whether 
all  the  dissolved  constituents  of  a  solution  can  pass  through  the  membrane. 
With  a  semi-permeable  membrane  only  the  water  can  pass  through  the 
membrane.  Without  discussing  the  possible  role  of  the  membrane  in  osmosis 
or  the  osmotic  pressure  that  may  be  produced,  it  is  sufficient  for  the  purpose 
here  to  state  that  as  the  permeability  of  the  membrane  increases  larger 
and  larger  ions  or  molecules  dissolved  in  the  water  may  pass  through  the 
membrane.  The  skin  and  cell  walls  of  the  fruit  serve  as  membranes.  These 


132  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

membranes  in  the  different  fruits  seem  to  have  a  greater  or  a  lesser  permea- 
bility to  sugar. 

When  cooked  in  a  sirup  some  fruits  tend  to  keep  their  shape,  some  be- 
come mushy,  some  shrivel,  and  others  tend  to  collapse  or  flatten  out.  For 
instance,  sweet  apples  tend  to  stay  whole  whether  cooked  in  sirup  or  in 
water,  whereas  sour  apples  have  a  greater  tendency  to  break  up  during 
cooking.  In  general,  the  fruits  tend  to  stay  whole  better  if  cooked  in  a 
sirup.  For  purees  the  fruit  is  cooked  in  water  and  the  sugar  added  later. 
Cooking  seems  in  most  instances  to  increase  the  permeability  of  the  fruit 
membranes  to  sugar.  Some  apples,  some  plums,  and  most  berries  can  be 
cooked  directly  in  the  sirup  without  noticeable  toughening  of  the  fruit. 
Peaches,  apricots,  most  apples,  and  most  plums  absorb  sugar  satisfactorily. 
Lathrop  states  that  the  firm  texture  of  the  cherry  skin  and  of  the  peach 
and  blackberry  flesh  retards  penetration  of  the  sugar  during  cooking.  On  the 
other  hand,  a  fruit  like  Keifer  pears  is  dehydrated  if  cooked  directly  in  a 
sirup  and  becomes  shriveled,  tough,  hard,  and  rubbery.  It  is  necessary  to 
soften  the  fruit  by  cooking  and  increase  its  permeability  to  sugar  before 
the  sugar  is  added.  It  is  of  course  possible  that  many  changes  other  than 
increasing  the  permeability  of  the  fruit  to  sugar  occur  when  the  fruit  is 
cooked  in  sirup.  Later  work  has  shown  that  fruit  like  Keifer  pears  and 
quinces  can  be  cooked  by  adding  the  sugar  directly  to  them  without  pre- 
liminary cooking.  But  it  is  necessary  to  start  with  an  excess  of  thin  sirup 
and  cook  slowly  to  evaporate  the  excess  liquid,  as  the  sugar  penetrates  the 
fruit.  So  long  a  time  is  required  that  the  method  is  not  practical.  The  fruit 
becomes  more  transparent  in  appearance.  It  may  be  that  the  sugar  has 
some  effect  on  the  cellulose. 

In  fruits  like  strawberries  and  seeded  sour  cherries,  and  particularly  if 
they  are  heated  rapidly  in  a  sugar  sirup,  flattening  occurs.  If  a  large  number 
of  cell  walls  are  broken  the  fruit  becomes  mushy.  Time  is  required  for 
sugar  to  pass  through  the  cell  walls  of  fruits.  If  osmosis  has  not  progressed 
far  enough,  i.e.,  if  the  concentration  of  the  sugar  within  the  berry  is  not  as 
great  as  in  the  sirup  surrounding  it,  the  berry  floats  when  canned. 

In  pickling,  shriveling  can  be  prevented  by  heating  the  pickling  material 
slightly  and  increasing  the  concentration  of  the  sugar  gradually,  allowing 
about  24  hours  or  more  to  elapse  before  the  next  addition  of  sugar.  But 
fermentation  is  more  likely  to  occur  when  preserves  are  treated  this  way. 
It  is  a  good  practise  to  add  the  sugar  directly  to  fruits  like  strawberries 
and  cherries  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  The  fruit  loses  water,  shrinks 
somewhat,  and  becomes  slightly  tougher.  When  heated  slowly,  and  if  neces- 
sary removed  from  the  heat  for  a  few  minutes  before  boiling  commences, 
there  is  time  for  the  sugar  to  penetrate  into  the  interior  of  the  berry,  the 
fruit  is  plump  and  will  not  float  when  placed  in  the  container.  In  the 
commercially  vacuum-processed  berries,  floating  in  the  can  is  prevented  by 
adding  the  berries,  to  which  part  of  the  sugar  has  previously  been  added, 
to  a  hot  sirup,  but  further  heating  is  not  continued  until  the  berries  have 


SOME  INVESTIGATIONS  ON  POTATO  QUALITY      133 

stood  for  a  few  minutes.  By  producing  a  vacuum,  the  greater  pressure 
within  the  berry  tends  to  puff  it  up;  by  breaking  the  vacuum,  flattening 
occurs.  In  this  way  the  process  of  osmosis  is  helped. 

Strawberries  and  the  sour  cherries  develop  a  strong  flavor  when  boiled 
for  a  long  time.  Hence  time  must  be  allowed  for  the  sugar  to  penetrate 
into  the  fruit  before  the  boiling  point  is  reached.  Boiling  should  be  rapid, 
and  the  quantity  of  fruit  used  in  a  batch  small.  The  popularity  of  sun 
preserves  for  certain  fruits  is  due  to  osmosis  being  slow  and  complete. 
If  the  fruit  is  heated  the  heating  period  is  very  short,  so  that  strong  flavors 
are  not  developed,  less  sugar  is  inverted  and  caramelized,  and  the  aromatic 
substances  are  not  lost  to  such  an  extent  as  in  long  cooking. 

Since  strawberries  usually  contain  about  90  per  cent  water,  it  seems  a 
better  practise  to  add  the  sugar  directly  to  the  berries,  for  not  as  long  a 
time  is  required  to  cook  the  berries  to  the  concentration  desired.  When 
water  is  added  to  the  sugar  to  make  a  sirup  it  is  necessary  to  evaporate  the 
water  used  in  the  sirup  as  well  as  a  part  of  that  contained  in  the  fruit. 
Increasing  the  proportion  of  sugar  to  fruit  also  lessens  the  time  required 
to  reach  a  definite  concentration  of  the  sirup,  so  that  the  preserves  do 
not  develop  as  strong  a  flavor.  When  1^  pounds  of  sugar  are  used  with 
a  pound  of  strawberries  only  a  short  time  of  cooking  is  required  for  the 
sirup  to  reach  a  temperature  of  103°C.,  which  gives  a  sirup  containing  60 
per  cent  of  sugar.  See  Table  10. 

Potatoes 

What  constitutes  quality  in  potatoes?  For  baking  and  boiling  it  is 
usually  accepted  that  the  best  potatoes  are  those  that  yield  a  white,  com- 
paratively dry,  and  mealy  texture.  The  homemaker  does  not  like  for 
boiling  a  potato  that  sloughs  off  badly  during  cooking,  though  this  often 
occurs  with  some  of  the  best  baking  potatoes.  For  deep-fat  frying,  dicing 
for  salad,  and  other  purposes  a  potato  that  gives  a  waxy  and  firm  con- 
sistency is  considered  best. 

Some  investigations  on  potato  quality.  It  is  rather  commonly  be- 
lieved that  to  have  mealy  potatoes  the  starch  content  should  be  high  and 
that  the  swelling  and  bursting  of  cell  walls  during  cooking  produces  the 
white,  fairly  dry,  flaky  appearance.  Sweetman  states  that  the  starch  grains 
do  not  swell  sufficiently  to  burst  but  the  cooking  renders  the  starch 
granules  readily  separable.  That  ease  of  cell  separation  is  one  of  the 
causes  of  mealiness  is  unsubstantiated  by  other  investigators.  Whittemore 
and  Juschke  decided  that  potatoes  were  more  mealy  when  fertilized  with  a 
high  rather  than  a  low  quantity  of  potash  (potassium  carbonate). 

Cobb  states  that  the  parts  of  the  tuber  having  the  greatest  concentration 
of  starch  are  mealiest  when  cooked.  The  rank  in  descending  order  is  cortex, 
external  medulla,  and  internal  medulla.  Cobb  in  a  series  of  investigations 
covering  5  years  found  that  baking  gave  more  mealy  potatoes  than  boiling. 


134  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Baked   potatoes  often   lost   25   per   cent  of   their  weight   by  evaporation, 
whereas  boiled  ones  lost  none. 

Environmental  factors.  Cobb  concluded  that  if  proper  cultural  con- 
ditions were  given  any  type  of  soil  may  grow  good  potatoes.  His  studies 
showed  that  temperature  during  growing  and  variety  were  the  most 
important  factors  affecting  potato  quality.  A  low-average  temperature 
favored  better  quality.  This  suggests  that  one  reason  why  Maine  and 
Idaho  are  noted  for  their  potatoes  is  the  low-average  temperature  during 
growth  of  the  potatoes.  Small,  immature,  or  ill-shaped  tubers  were  ob- 
served to  have  poor  quality. 

Stevenson  and  Whitman  state  that  a  variety  producing  good-quality 
potatoes  under  certain  conditions  may  produce  poor  ones  under  other  condi- 
tions, but  a  good-cooking  variety  tends  to  maintain  better  quality  over  a 
wider  range  of  conditions  than  a  poor-cooking  quality. 

Starch  granules.  It  is  possible  that  two  factors  determining  whether 
a  potato  produces  a  mealy  or  waxy  consistency  when  cooked  are  the  size  of 
the  starch  granule  and  its  phosphorus  content.  See  Starch,  Chapter  XL 
Large  granules  swell  and  gelatinize  at  a  lower  temperature  than  small 
granules.  Thus,  potatoes  giving  a  dry,  mealy  texture  may  have  a  compara- 
tively larger  percentage  of  large  granules.  Smaller  granules  are  supposed 
to  have  a  higher  phosphorus  content  than  large  ones,  and  the  paste-forming 
qualities  of  starch  are  increased  when  the  starch  is  combined  with  phos- 
phorus. If  paste-forming  qualities  mean  increased  adhesiveness,  then  waxy 
potatoes  may  have  either  smaller  granules  or  a  higher  phosphorus  content 
or  both. 

Storage  temperature.  Wright  et  al.  found  that  the  storage  tempera- 
ture affected  the  quality  of  the  cooked  potatoes.  They  stored  Irish  Cobbler 
potatoes  harvested  August  3  for  8  weeks  at  the  following  temperatures: 
^2"",  36°,  40°,  50°,  60°,  and  70°F.  In  general  potatoes  stored  at  40° 
were  considered  fair  in  quality  when  cooked;  those  from  storage  at  32° 
and  36°  were  poor;  those  from  50°  good;  those  from  60°  very  good, 
and  those  from  70°  good.  The  baked  and  boiled  products  from  potatoes 
stored  at  40°  were  slightly  sweet  and  watery;  those  from  36°  storage  were 
inclined  to  be  soggy  or  watery,  with  a  distinctly  yellow  color  and  sweet 
flavor;  those  from  storage  at  50°,  60°,  and  70°  possessed  no  undesirable 
sweet  flavor  and  were  of  mealy  texture  and  cream  in  color. 

Potato  chips.  The  most  important  factor  in  making  potato  chips  ap- 
pears to  be  the  sugar  content  of  the  potato.  With  a  high  sugar  content  the 
chips  become  too  brown,  with  production  of  a  more  or  less  disagreeable 
astringent  flavor,  before  they  are  suflSciently  cooked.  The  concentration  of 
sugar  increases  in  potatoes  stored  at  a  low  temperature.  At  ordinary  tem- 
peratures the  sugar  is  used  up  in  respiration ;  at  lower  temperatures  metab- 
olism is  retarded  but  sugar  production  by  enzymes  proceeds,  so  that  sugar 
accumulates. 


COOKING  OF  DRIED  LEGUMES  135 

Peacock  and  Brunstetter  have  reported  a  very  simple  test  for  predeter- 
mining the  cooking  value  of  potatoes  because  of  accumulated  sugars.  One 
cubic  centimeter  of  a  saturated  aqueous  solution  of  picric  acid  and  1 
cubic  centimeter  of  a  20-per  cent  sodium  carbonate  solution  are  placed  in  a 
test  tube.  To  this  is  added  a  piece  of  potato  of  definite  length  cut  with  a 
cork  borer.  The  solution  is  heated  carefully  to  prevent  boiling  over  for 
1  minute.  If  the  solution  does  not  become  much  darker  it  indicates  that 
the  potato  has  little  sugar  and  is  suitable  for  both  chips  and  "French 
fries."  With  increasing  sugar  content  the  solution  becomes  darker  and 
darker  when  time  of  heating  and  size  of  piece  of  potato  are  kept  stand- 
ardized. The  darkest  shade  given  by  Peacock  and  Brunstetter  is  a  dark 
garnet-brown;  but  Swalley  tested  some  potatoes  that  gave  shades  two 
degrees  darker  in  color  than  dark  garnet-brown,  the  darkest  being  nearly 
black.  Potato  slices  fried  for  a  definite  time  in  fat  at  a  definite  tempera- 
ture become  browner  and  browner  as  the  sugar  content  increases  and  give 
perfect  correlations  with  the  picric  acid  test.  In  general  Swalley  found 
that  the  longer  the  potatoes  were  stored  at  32°F.  (storage  was  from 
11-14  to  12-15),  the  longer  the  time  required  for  storage  at  room  tempera- 
ture (those  stored  at  32°  for  31  days  required  45  days  at  room  tempera- 
ture) before  good  chips  were  obtained. 

Wright  et  al.  found  that  potatoes  stored  at  32°  and  36°  were  not  suitable 
for  French  fries,  as  they  browned  too  quickly  and  had  a  burned  flavor. 
To  some  extent  this  was  also  true  of  potatoes  stored  at  40°.  As  the  storage 
temperature  increased  the  time  necessary  for  cooking  increased.  Potatoes 
stored  at  60°  and  70°  gave  fries  of  attractive  golden-brown  color,  mealy 
texture,  and  good  flavor.  Similar  results  were  obtained  with  chips. 

Preparation  o£  chips.  Because  it  is  difficult  or  impossible  to  slice  the 
potatoes  evenly  by  hand,  they  should  be  cut  with  a  slicer.  If  salt  is  added 
to  the  soaking  water  the  slices  are  partially  dehydrated  during  the  soak- 
ing; thus  a  shorter  time  is  required  for  cooking  and  no  addition  of  salt 
is  necessary  after  cooking.  For  %.  pound  of  potato  and  J4  cup  of  water 
about  8  grams  of  salt  are  required. 

Cooking  chips.  The  cooking  time  and  temperature  are  dependent  to  a 
certain  extent  on  the  quantity  of  potatoes  added  to  a  given  amount  of  fat. 
For  %  pound  of  slices  about  3  minutes  are  required  when  the  initial 
temperature  of  the  fat  is  190°C.  and  the  quantity  of  fat  is  about  2  to 
2^  pounds.  Smaller  quantities  of  potatoes  cook  in  a  shorter  time.  The 
chips  are  done  when  bubbling  of  the  fat  ceases,  which  indicates  the  major 
portion  of  the  water  has  evaporated. 

Cooking  of  Dried  Legumes 

Different  varieties  of  beans  and  peas  belong  to  the  legume  family.  The 
dried  legumes  commonly  used  for  food  are  navy,  lima,  kidney,  soy,  other 


136  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

varieties  of  beans,  lentils,  and  dried  peas.  The  dried  legumes  contain  less 
moisture  than  the  fresh  ones.  In  cooking,  the  moisture  lost  by  drying  is 
replaced  and  water  is  absorbed.  The  legume  is  softened.  This  requires  a 
longer  period  than  for  fresh  legumes,  so  that  the  methods  of  cooking  that 
shorten  the  cooking  process  are  more  important  than  for  fresh  vegetables. 
Effect  o£  mineral  content  of  the  water  upon  cooking  of  dried 
legumes.  Huenink  and  Bartow  in  trying  to  determine  why  the  quality 
of  canned  products  from  some  factories  was  always  superior  to  those  of 
others  found  that  the  mineral  content  of  the  water  affected  the  softening 
of  dried  beans  in  cooking.  Using  a  sirup  and  distilled  water  in  canning 
beans,  they  found  the  product  very  tender  and  one  that  would  grade 
strictly  fancy  on  the  market.  When  to  the  sirup,  distilled  water,  and  beans, 
calcium  chloride  was  added,  using  lots  with  100,  200,  300,  400,  500,  600, 
and  1000  parts  per  million  parts  of  water,  the  hardness  of  the  processed 
beans  increased  with  increasing  calcium  chloride,  the  ones  with  1000  being 
nearly  as  hard  as  uncooked  beans.  The  series  with  100  to  200  parts  of 
calcium  chloride  were  hard  and  tough  and  would  grade  standard  on  the 
market  and  be  called  underprocessed.  Continuing  their  work  they  tried 
the  following  salts : 

Calcium  chloride  CaCl2 

Calcium  sulfate  CaS04 

Calcium  bicarbonate  Ca(HC03)2 

Magnesium  sulfate  MgS04 

Magnesium  bicarbonate  Mg(HC03)2 

Sodium  carbonate  Na2C03 

Sodium  bicarbonate  NaHCOs 

They  found  that  the  calcium  and  magnesium  salts  hardened  the  beans 
whether  as  chlorides,  sulfates,  or  carbonates.  The  calcium  and  magnesium 
bicarbonates  had  a  hardening  effect  but  the  results  were  not  as  consistent 
as  with  the  other  salts. 

Both  the  sodium  carbonate  and  sodium  bicarbonate  gave  a  softening 
effect,  and  with  larger  quantities  the  beans  appeared  over-cooked. 

The  National  Canners  Association  has  reported  that  calcium  and  mag- 
nesium salts  harden  beans  and  peas  during  cooking,  having  a  greater  effect 
upon  the  beans  than  on  the  peas.  String  beans  and  corn  do  not  seem  to 
be  affected,  nor  are  beets  affected  up  to  350  parts  of  magnesium  or  calcium 
per  million  parts  of  w^ater,  but  the  salts  of  hard  water  combine  with  the 
soluble  oxalates  of  the  beet  to  give  a  white  coat  on  the  surface  of  the  beet. 

Van  der  Marel,  investigating  the  effect  of  various  salts,  bases,  and  acids 
upon  the  softening  during  cooking  of  dried  peas,  has  reported  the  following 
results.  Using  a  "good  cooking"  variety  of  peas,  and  cooking  for  1^  hours 
he  determined  the  percentage  remaining  hard  at  the  end  of  the  cooking 
period. 


HARD  WATER 


137 


TABLE  18 
Cooking  Dried  Peas  {Van  der  Marel) 


Type  of  water  and  substance  added 


Percentage  of  peas  remaining  hard 
after  cooking  1^  hours. 


Distilled  water 

Amsterdam  city  water .  .  . 

Formic  acid  0.01  M 

Calcium  chloride  0.01  M . 
Sodium  carbonate  0.01  M 


5 

14 

68 

100 

2 


With  another  variety  of  pea  more  difficult  to  cook  he  obtained  the  fol- 
lowing results  after  soaking  24  hours  and  boiling  2  hours. 

TABLE  19 
Cooking  Dried  Peas  (Fan  der  Marel) 


Type  of  water  and  substance  added 

Percentage  of  peas  remaining  hard 

after  soaking  24  hours  and  boiling 

2  hours. 

Distilled  water 

43 

Amsterdam  city  water 

Sodium  carbonate  0.01  M 

Ammonium  hydroxide  0.01  M 

67 
4 
0 

Van  der  Marel  decided  that  the  softening  effect  was  due  to  action  on 
the  pectic  substances  of  the  peas  and  that  anything  that  made  the  pectic 
substances  more  soluble  had  a  softening  effect  in  cooking. 

The  results  of  Huenink  and  Bartow  and  of  Van  der  Marel  show  why 
some  waters  are  not  desirable  for  cooking  dry  legumes.  With  increasing 
hardness  of  the  water  the  hardening  effect  on  the  vegetable  is  more  notice- 
able. Some  housewives  have  found  this  out  from  experience.  The  writer 
remembers  her  grandmother's  insisting  that  dried  beans  should  be  cooked 
in  cistern  water,  because  they  cooked  more  quickly  than  in  the  well  water 
which  was  permanently  hard. 

Hard  water.  Hard  water  contains  salts  of  calcium,  magnesium,  and 
sometimes  iron.  Hardness  of  water  is  designated  as  temporary  or  perma- 
nent. Water  containing  calcium  and  magnesium  bicarbonates  is  termed 
temporary  hard  water  since  the  heating  of  the  bicarbonates  decomposes 
them  and  carbonates  are  formed  which  are  deposited  as  crusts  on  the  inner 
part  of  the  tea  kettle  or  cooking  utensil.  Such  waters  are  rendered  less 


138  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

hard  by  boiling.  Permanent  hard  water  contains  the  sulfates  of  magnesium 
and  calcium.  Some  water  is  both  temporarily  and  permanently  hard. 

Softened  water,  which  is  used  a  great  deal  at  the  present  time,  has  the 
calcium  and  magnesium  replaced  by  sodium.  The  author  has  noticed  that, 
since  softened  water  is  used  in  the  Home  Economics  building  at  Iowa 
State  College,  fresh  green  peas  never  become  hard  as  they  sometimes  did 
with  the  old  permanently  hard  water  and  that  the  difference  between  the 
time  required  for  cooking  dry  beans  not  soaked  and  those  that  are  soaked 
is  very  much  shorter. 

The  pectic  substances  o£  bean  coats.  Snyder  noticed  that  if  the  seed 
coat  of  pea  or  Great  Northern  beans  was  injured  or  scarified,  the  beans 
swelled  in  soaking  and  cooked  in  a  shorter  time.  Next  she  noticed  that 
entrance  of  water  into  the  beans  is  not  uniform  over  the  entire  surface  of 
the  bean  but  most  of  the  water  entered  through  the  micropyle  and  germinal 
area.  Substances  that  dissolved  the  pectic  substances  shortened  the  soaking 
and  cooking  time.  Beans  with  very  hard  skins  neither  soaked  nor  cooked 
satisfactorily  and  contained  a  higher  percentage  of  pectic  substances  than 
skins  of  beans  that  soaked  and  cooked  easily.  The  major  portion  of  the 
calcium  of  beans  was  found  in  the  seed  coat. 

Snyder's  results  with  calcium  and  magnesium  salts,  with  acids,  and  with 
soda  substantiate  those  of  earlier  investigators,  with  the  exception  that 
oxalic  acid,  which  cannot  be  used  in  preparation  of  edible  products,  did 
not  depress  absorption  of  water.  Oxalic  acid  would  render  the  calcium 
salts  insoluble. 

Snyder  found  that  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  per  pint  of  water  was  sufficient 
for  soaking  to  shorten  the  cooking  time,  except  with  one  very  hard  water. 
If  the  beans  were  soaked  in  water  at  120°F.  the  maximum  amount  of 
water  was  absorbed  in  6  hours.  Molasses  and  tomato  juice  had  an  effect 
similar  to  that  of  acids  but  could  be  added  without  injurious  effect  after 
the  beans  were  cooked.  Beans  that  cooked  rapidly  on  top  of  a  burner  also 
baked  satisfactorily. 

Masters's  results  with  legumes.  Masters,  using  London  tap  water 
(temporary  hardness  12  parts  per  100,000  parts  of  water  and  permanent 
hardness  5  parts  per  100,000  parts  of  water)  and  cooking  butter  beans, 
found  that  soaking  made  little  difference  in  time  required  for  cooking, 
but  that  soaking  with  sodium  bicarbonate  in  the  soaking  water  did  shorten 
the  cooking  time.  Distilled  water  gave  a  shorter  cooking  time  than  tap 
water.  Masters  also  determined  the  soaking  and  cooking  losses  of  total 
solids.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  soaking  with  soda  in  the  water  gave 
not  only  a  shorter  cooking  period,  but  also  a  slightly  decreased  loss  of 
total  solids.  However,  there  was  only  a  very  slight  difference.  This  was 
with  the  percentage  of  soda  that  she  considered  to  give  the  best  cooking 
results,  1  per  cent  (equivalent  to  about  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  per  cup  of 
water).  With  larger  amounts  of  soda  than  1  per  cent,  greater  losses  due 
to  disintegration  of  the  beans  occurred.  With  a  small  amount,  0.25  per 


CLASS  RESULTS  WITH  NAVY  BEANS  139 

cent,  the  cooking  time  was  shortened  but  the  total  loss  of  solids  was  slightly- 
higher  than  for  the  other  methods  of  cooking.  Losses  were  also  high  when 
large  amounts  of  soda  were  used  in  the  soaking  instead  of  the  cooking 
water.  When  other  types  of  beans  were  substituted  for  the  butter  beans, 
the  results  were  similar,  although  the  cooking  time  might  be  longer  or 
shorter  according  to  the  nature  of  the  beans,  and  the  cooking  losses  higher 
or  lower,  varying  with  the  thickness  of  the  skins  of  the  beans.  The  loss  of 
solids  during  cooking  of  the  butter  beans  was  about  10.5  to  11  per  cent 
if  beans  were  not  soaked.  If  beans  were  soaked  before  cooking  the  total 
loss  was  about  12.5  per  cent. 

One  of  the  methods  recommended  by  Masters  for  cooking  beans  is  to 
add  soda  to  the  soaking  water  and  salt  to  the  cooking  water.  She  found 
that  discarding  the  soaking  water  gave  no  greater  cooking  losses  than  when 
it  was  retained  and  the  beans  cooked  in  the  water  in  which  they  were 
soaked. 

Class  results  with  navy  beans.  The  experimental  class  results  for 
several  years  at  Iowa  State  College  show  that,  although  some  navy  beans 
cook  in  a  very  short  time,  the  majority  require  about  the  same  time,  which 
is  close  to  the  average  given  in  the  following  tables.  Some  require  longer 
cooking.  To  show  this  the  minimum  and  maximum  time  as  well  as  the 
average  are  given  in  the  tables.  The  beans  were  washed  and  added  to  1  pint 
of  boiling  water.  If  the  water  evaporated  to  dryness,  boiling  water  was 
added.  The  soaked  beans  stood  over  night,  usually  15  to  24  hours.  All  the 
figures  are  for  15  or  more  tests.  The  water  is  quite  hard,  averaging  about 
340  parts  of  carbonate  per  million  parts  of  water.  The  mineral  content 
as  carbonate  is  as  follows: 

CaCOs         240  parts  per  million  parts  of  water. 
MgCOs         100  parts  per  million  parts  of  water. 

For  an  end  point  in  cooking  the  beans  were  cooked  so  that  they  would 
be  as  whole  as  possible  yet  soft  all  the  way  through.  A  common  household 
way  of  testing  when  beans  are  done  is  to  stick  them  with  the  point  of  a 
sharp  knife  or  fork.  This  was  the  test  used,  but  the  experiments  being  done 
by  students  through  different  quarters  give  differences  of  opinion  as  to  when 
the  beans  were  done.  For  example,  the  minimum  time  for  beans  cooked 
with  soda  in  tap  water  is  shorter  than  the  minimum  time  for  beans  soaked 
with  soda  in  distilled  water,  but  the  averages  are  reversed. 

Soda  may  be  added  to  the  cooking  water  and  not  discarded.  This  was 
tried  in  class,  but  the  beans  became  mushy  on  the  outside  and  disintegrated 
while  the  center  was  still  hard. 

In  all  varieties  of  beans,  cooking  with  the  vessel  covered  gives  a  shorter 
cooking  period  than  cooking  uncovered.  This  may  be  due  to  the  cooling 
effect  by  evaporation  of  the  water  at  the  surface  and  possibly  will  not  occur 
with  a  large  quantity  of  beans  and  water. 


140 


FRUITS  AxND  VEGETABLES 


TABLE  20 
Class  Results  for  Cooking  Navy  Beans  by  Different  Methods 


Method  of  cooking 

Weight 
of  un- 
cooked 
beans 
grams 

Weight 

of 
soaked 
beans 
grams 

Weight 

of 
cooked 
beans 
grams 

Time 
of 

cook- 
ing 

min. 

Tap  water 

Minimum 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

50 
50 

98 
106 
100 

98 
105 
101 

95 

106 

99 

96 

104 

99 

92 
134 
110 

91 
122 
111 

102 
131 
116 

105 
133 
118 

100 
136 
116 

111 
142 
121 

91 
116 
100 

95 
145 
118 

80 

Maximum 

105 

Average 

Distilled  water 

Mmimum 

89 

55 

Maximum 

85 

Average 

Soaked  in  tap  water 

Mmimum 

70 

32 

Maximum     

85 

Average                      .    .        ... 

60 

Soaked  in  distilled  water 

Minimum 

30 

Maximum 

64 

Average 

Soaked  in  tap  water,  yi  teaspoon  of 
soda  added  to  soaking  water,  but 
no  soda  in  cooking  water 

Minimum 

46 
21 

Maximum 

50 

Average                               .         ... 

36 

Soaked  in  distilled  water,  soda  ys 
teaspoon  added  to  soaking  water, 
no  soda  in  cooking  water.  Cooked 
in  distilled  water 

Minimum 

25 

Maximum 

40 

Average 

32 

Salt  ]4  teaspoon  added  to  tap  water 
Minimum                                    .    . 

60 

Maximum 

108 

Average 

87 

Soda  yi  teaspoon  added  to  tap  water 
Boiled  10  minutes.  Discarded 
Minimum                        

30 

Maximum 

116 

Average 

56 

REFERENCES  141 

Soaked  beans  are  lighter  in  color  and  less  strong  in  flavor  than  the 
non-soaked  ones. 

Lima  beans.  Although  the  work  with  lima  beans  has  been  limited 
in  extent  in  comparison  to  that  done  with  navy  beans  the  results  have  been 
similar  to  those  obtained  with  the  latter. 

Soaking  to  shorten  the  cooking  period  must  continue  until  the  beans  have 
absorbed  enough  water  to  weigh  nearly  double  their  dry  weight.  When 
boiling  water  was  poured  over  the  lima  beans  and  left  to  stand,  swelling 
occurred  more  rapidly  than  when  cold  water  was  used.  The  time  required 
for  soaking  with  cold  water  is  7  to  8  hours  or  longer,  but  with  the  boiling 
water  4  to  5  hours  is  usually  sufficient. 

Pinto  beans.  Greenwood  found  that  the  degree  of  hardness  of  the  water 
is  the  most  important  factor  to  consider  in  cooking  beans.  Satisfactory 
results  were  obtained  by  any  method  with  very  soft  water,  and  no  method 
was  entirely  satisfactory  with  very  hard  water.  Boiling  water  20  to  30 
minutes  to  precipitate  the  calcium  and  magnesium  salts  before  using  for 
cooking  the  beans  was  beneficial.  In  using  hard  water  better  results  were 
obtained  if  it  was  boiled  gently  and  the  vessel  was  well  covered  to  avoid 
evaporation  of  water,  thus  preventing  the  necessity  of  adding  more  water 
and  increasing  the  total  salts  added.  For  the  shortest  cooking  period  the 
beans  should  be  soaked  in  hot  soda  water  (0.5  per  cent  solution),  1^  tea- 
spoons to  5  cups  of  water. 

Dried  soybeans.  The  use  of  soybeans  for  human  consumption  is  con- 
stantly increasing,  both  the  green  and  dry  varieties  being  used  to  a  greater 
extent  than  formerly.  Some  varieties  are  nearly  impossible  to  cook  but  va- 
rieties easier  to  cook  are  used  for  edible  purposes. 

Work  with  dry  soybeans  indicates  that  soaking  over  night  in  cold  water 
nearly  halves  the  cooking  time.  Addition  of  soda  to  the  soaking  water  fur- 
ther shortens  the  cooking  time.  But  pouring  boiling  water  over  the  beans 
and  letting  them  soak  in  this  water  for  3  or  4  hours  results  in  the  shortest 
cooking  time. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Anderson,    R.    J.      A    Contribution    to    the    Chemistry    of    Grape    Pigments.      III. 

Concerning  the   anthocyans  in  Seibel  Grapes.  J.  Biol,  Chem.  61:  685    (1924). 
Atwater,  R.     Cherry  Juice   and   Its   Uses.     The   Canner,   Convention   No.   82:  56, 

No.  11,  Part  II,  Feb.  22    (1936). 
Balls,  A.  K.,  and  Hale,  W.  S.     Peroxidase  in  the  Darkening  of  Apples.     Ind.  Eng. 

Chem.  27:  335    (1936). 
Berry,  J.  T.     Losses  in  Cooking  Vegetables.     J.   Home  Econ.  4:  405    (1912). 
Bigelow,   W.   D.     The   Chemist  in  the   Canned   Food   Industry.      Ind.   Eng.   Chem. 

9:  187   (1917). 
Bigelow,  W.  D.,  and   Dunbar,  P.  B.     Acid   Content  of  Fruits.     Ind.  Eng.   Chem. 

9:  762   (1917). 
Blair,  B.  W.     Color  of  Canned  Beets.     The  Canner,  Convention  No.  82:  98,  No. 

11,  Part  II,  Feb.  22   (1936). 


142  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Blunt,  Katharine.     Report  at  Home  Economics  Association.     Buffalo,  N.  Y.   (1924). 
Blunt,   K.,   and   Otis,   A.     Losses   of   Iron  in   Cooking   Vegetables.     J.   Home  Econ. 

11:  213   (1917). 
Bower,   F.   O.     Botany  of  the  Living  Plant.     Macmillan   and   Co.    (1923). 
Burke,   A.    D.,    and    Woodson,    F.,    and    Heller,    V.    G.      The    Possible    Toxicity  of 

Buttermilk   Soured  in  Zinc  Containers.     J.  Dairy  Sci.   11:  79    (1928). 
Carlier,  E.  W.,  and  Evans,  C.     Ailyl   Sulphide;   Some  Aspects  of  Its  Physiological 

Action  with  an  Analysis  of  the  Common  Leek.     Biochem.  J.  2:  235    (1906-07). 
Cobb,  J.  S.     A   Study  of  Culinary  Quality  in  White  Potatoes.     Am.  Potato  J.   12: 

335    (1935). 
Courtney,   A.,   Fales,   H.,    and  Bartlett,   F.     Some   Analysis   of   Vegetables   Showing 

the  Effect  of  Cooking.     Am.  J.  Dis.  Children  14:  34   (1917). 
Cruess,   M.   V.     Some   Observations  on  Tannins.     Wines   and   Vines  16:   5,   No.   1 

(1935). 
Cruess,  W.  V.,  Mark,  E.  M.,  and   Quinn,  P.  J.     How  to  Avoid  the  Browning  of 

Peaches.     Canning  Age  16:  353    (1935). 
Culpepper,  C.  W.,   and   Caldwell,  J.  S.     The  Behavior  of  Anthocyan  Pigments  in 

Canning.     J.  Agri.  Research  35:  107    (1927). 
Denton,  Minna    C.      Changes   in    Food    Value   of    Vegetables    Due   to    Cooking.     J. 

Home  Econ.   9:   143    and  200    (1919). 
Doree,    C,    and    Barton-Wright,    E.    C.      The    Stone    Cells   of   Pears.      Biochem.   J. 

20:  502    (1926). 
Editorial,  The  Processing  of  Pickles.     Canning  Age   16:  213    (1935). 
Everst,  A.  E.     Production  of  Anthocyanins   and  Anthocyanidins.     Part  III.     Proc. 

Roy.   Soc.     Series  B.   90:  251    (1918). 
Gore,  H.  C.     Experiments  in  the  Processing  of  Persimmons  to  Render  Them  Non- 
astringent.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.,  Bur.  Chem.,  Bull.  141   (1911)  ;  U.  S.  Dept.  Agri., 

Bur.   Chem.,  Bull.   155    (1912). 
Greenwood,  M.  L.     Pinto  Beans;   Their  Preparation   and  Palatability.     Bull.  231. 

Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  State  College,  N.  M.    (1935). 
Haas,   P.,   and   Hill,   I.   G.     An  Introduction   to   the   Chemistry  of   Plant   Products. 

Longmans  Green  &  Co.    (1929) 
Halliday,  E.  G.     How  to  Cook  Vegetables.     Hygeia  2:  217    (1924). 
Halliday,  E.  G.,   and   Noble,   I.  T.     Hows   and   Whys   of   Cooking.      University  of 

Chicago  Press    (1933). 
Huenink,   H.   L.,    and   Bartow,   E.     The   Effect   of   the   Mineral    Content  of  Water 

on  Canned  Foods.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  7:  495   (1915). 
Jorgensen,    I.,    and   Stiles,   W.      Carbon   Assimilation.      The   New    Phytologist,    Re- 
print number   15,   or  The  New   Phytologist   14:  240    and   281    (1915). 
Joslyn,   M.  A.,    and   Marsh,    G.   L.     The   Browning    of   Orange   Juice.      Ind.   Eng. 

Chem.  27:  186    (1935). 
Kertesz,  Z.   I.     The  Oxidase   System  of   a   Non-browning  Peach.     Tech.  Bull.  219. 

Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  Geneva,  N.  Y.   (1933). 
Kertesz,   Z.  I.      Some    Carbohydrate    Changes    in    Shelled    Peas.      Bull.    622,    Agri. 

Expt.  Sta.,  Geneva,  N.  Y.    (1933). 
Koch,  E.   M.     The   Volatile   Acids  of    Spinach.     Personal   communication. 
Kohman,    E.    F.     Method    for    Determining    Hydrogen    Sulfide    Evolved    by    Foods 

When  Cooked  at  Various  Temperatures.  Ind.  Eng.  Chem.   14:   527    (1922). 
Kohman,    E.    F.      A    New    Blanching    Procedure.      The    Canner    82:    72,    No.    11, 

Convention  No.  Part  II,  Feb.  22   (1936). 
Lathrop,    C.   P.      Chemistry  and   the   Preserve,   or   Jam    and    Jelly   Industry.     Ind. 

Eng.   Chem.  20:  1298    (1928). 


REFERENCES  143 

Loughlin,  R.  Conserving  Food  Value,  Flavor,  and  Attractiveness  in  Cooking 
Vegetables.     Circular  265.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.   (1933). 

Masters,  H.  Dried  Legumes.  An  Investigation  of  the  Methods  Employed  for 
Cooking  Vegetables,  with  Special  Reference  to  the  Losses  Incurred.  Biochem. 
J.  12:  231    (1918). 

Masters,  H.,  and  Garbutt,  P.  An  Investigation  of  the  Methods  Employed  for 
Cooking  Vegetables,  with  Special  Reference  to  the  Losses  Incurred.  Biochem. 
J.  14:  75    (1920). 

McKee,  M.  C,  and  Smith,  A.  H.  Some  Nitrogenous  Constituents  of  the  Cauli- 
flower Bud.    J.  Biol.  Chem.  70:  273    (1926). 

McLaughlin,  L.  The  Nutritive  Value  of  New  Zealand  Spinach.  J.  Nutrition  2: 
197   (1929). 

Morgan,  A.  F.  Ash  Content  of  Canned  Vegetables  with  Special  Reference  to 
Canned  Peas.     J.  Econ.  7:  72   (1915). 

National  Canners  Association.     Bulletin  No.  20  L    (1923). 

Nelson,  E.  K.  The  Non-volatile  Acids  of  the  Strawberry,  the  Pineapple,  the 
Raspberry  and  the  Concord  Grape.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  47:  1177   (1925). 

Nelson,  E.  K.     The  Acids  of  Fruits.     Am.  Medicine  23:  812    (1928). 

Nelson,  E.  K.     The  Acids  of  Figs.     J.  Am.  Chem.   Soc.  50:  2012    (1928). 

Nelson,  E.  K.  The  Non-volatile  Acids  of  the  Pear,  Quince,  Apple,  Loganberry, 
Blueberry,  Cranberry,  Lemon  and  Pomegranate.  J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  49:  1300 
(1927). 

Nelson,  E.  K.     Isocritic  Acid.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  52:  2928   (1930). 

Nelson,  E.  K.,  and  Mattern,  H.  H.  The  Organic  Acids  of  Spinach,  Broccoli  and 
Lettuce.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  52:  1909    (1931). 

Onslow,  M.  W.  Oxidizing  Enzymes.  II.  The  Nature  of  the  Enzymes  Associated 
with  Certain  Direct  Oxidizing  Systems  in  Plants.    Biochem.  J.  14:  575   (1920). 

Onslow,  M.  W^.  Plant  Biochemistry.  Cambridge  Univ.  Press  and  the  Macmillan 
Co.  (1929). 

Palmer,  L.  S.,  and  Kempster,  H.  L.  Relation  of  Plant  Carotinoids  to  Growth. 
J.  Biol.  Chem.  39:  299    (1919). 

Peacock,  W.  M.,  and  Brunstetter,  B.  C.  A  Simple  Chemical  Test  for  Predetermin- 
ing the  Culinary  Quality  of  Potatoes  as  Affected  by  the  Accumulation  of 
Soluble  Sugars.     Circular  158.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.    (1931). 

Perkin,  A,  G.,  and  Everst,  A.  E.  The  Natural  Organic  Colouring  Matters. 
Longmans  Green  &  Co.    (1918). 

Peterson,  W.  H.  Forms  of  Sulfur  in  Plant  Materials  and  Their  Variation  with 
Soil   Supply.     J.  Am.   Chem.   Soc.  36:  1290    (1914). 

Peterson,  W.  H.,  and  Hoppert,  C.  A.  The  Loss  of  Mineral  and  Other  Constit- 
uents from  Vegetables  by  Various  Methods  of  Cooking.  J.  Home  Econ.  17: 
265   (1925). 

Pratt,  O.  B.,  and  Swartout,  G.  O.  Fruit  and  Vegetable  Pigments  as  Indicators. 
Science  71:  486   (1930). 

Rahn,  O.  Bacteriological  Studies  of  Brine  Pickles.  The  Canner  31:  13,  June 
(1935). 

Rider,  A.  E.  The  Oxalic  Acid  Content  of  Vegetables  Used  as  Greens.  J.  Home 
Econ.  22:  309    (1930). 

Sale,  J.  W.,  and  Badger,  C.  H.  Contamination  of  Beverages  and  Other  Foods 
with  Zinc.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  16:  164   (1925). 

Schorger,  A.  W.  The  Chemistry  of  Cellulose  and  Wood.  McGraw-Hill  Co. 
(1926). 

Sherman,  H.  C.     Chemistry  of  Food  and  Nutrition.     Macmillan  &  Co.   (1933). 

Shibita,  K.,  Nagar,  I.,  and  Kishida,  M.  The  Occurrence  and  Physiological  Sig- 
nificance of  Flavone   Derivatives  in  Plants.     J.  Biol.  Chem.  28:  93    (1916). 

Shilling,  I.  M.  The  Formation  of  Hydrogen  Sulfide  in  the  Cooking  of  Vegetables. 
Master's  Thesis.     University  of  Chicago    (1923).     Personal  communication. 


144  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Simpson,  J.,  and  Halliday,  E.  G.  The  Behavior  of  Sulfur  Compounds  in  Vege- 
tables on  Cooking.  Abstracts  of  Reports  of  Research.  Food  and  Nutrition 
Section.     Asheville,  N.  C.  June    (1927)    and  J.  Home  Econ.  20:  121    (1928). 

Snyder,  E.  B.  Some  Factors  Affecting  the  Cooking  Quality  of  the  Pea  and  Great 
Northern  Types  of  Dry  Beans.  Research  Bull.  85.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Neb. 
(1936).' 

Steinbarger,  M.  The  Effect  of  Salt  upon  the  Loss  of  Iron  in  Cooking  Vegetables. 
Unpublished  Thesis  (M.  A.)  University  of  Missouri,  Columbia,  Mo.  (1923). 
Courtesy  of  Miss  Steinbarger. 

Stevenson,  A.  E.     Discoloration  in  Canned  Foods.     Canning  Age  5:  951    (1924). 

Stevenson,  F.  J.,  and  Whitman,  E.  F.  Cooking  Quality  of  Certain  Potato  Va- 
rieties as  Influenced   by  Environment.     Am.  Potato  J.  12:  41    (1935). 

Swalley,  M.  Potato  Chips.  Special  Problem.  Unpublished.  Iowa  State  Col- 
lege, Ames   (1932). 

Sweetman,  M.  D.  The  Physico-Chemical  Changes  Produced  by  the  Cooking  of 
Potatoes.     Am.   Potato  J.   10:   169    (1933). 

Thatcher,   R.   W.      Chemistry   of   Plant   Life.     McGraw-Hill    Co.    (1921). 

Van  der  Marel.  The  Causes  of  Hardening  of  Peas  During  Boiling.  Chemical 
Abs.    16:    1116    (1922),    from   Pharm.   Weekblad    59:    89    (1922). 

Wheldale,  M.  The  Anthocyanin  Pigments  of  Plants.  Cambridge  University  Press 
(1916). 

Whittemore,  M.,  and  Juschke,  B.  M.  Certain  Relationships  of  Potash  Fertiliza- 
tion and  Varieties  of  Potatoes  to  Table  Value.  Bull.  231.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta., 
Rhode  Island    (1933). 

Williams,  K.  I.  The  Chemical  Composition  of  Cooked  Vegetables.  Ind.  Eng. 
Chem.   5:  653    (1913). 

Willstatter,  R.     Chlorophyll.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  37:  323.      (1915). 

Wright,  R.  C,  Peacock,  W.  M.,  Whiteman,  T.  M.,  and  Whiteman,  E.  M.  The 
Cooking  Quality,  Palatability,  and  Carbohydrate  Composition  of  Potatoes  as 
Influenced  by  Storage  Temperature.  Technical  Bull.  507.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agri. 
(1936). 

Zerban,  F.  W.  Relative  Importance  of  Some  Coloring  Matters  in  Cane  Juices  and 
Sirups.     Ind.  Eng.   Chem.  12:  744.      (1915). 

Zerban,  F.  W.  The  Role  of  Oxidases  and  Iron  in  the  Color  Changes  of  Sugar 
Cane  Juice.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  10:  814.      (1918). 

FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Experiment  17. 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  different  methods  of  cooking  on  the  color  of 
green  vegetables. 

Use  yi  pound  (56  grams)  of  spinach,  lettuce,  Brussels  sprouts,  green  beans 
cut  in  1-inch  strips,  or  green  asparagus.  Use  1  cup  of  water.  Cook  10  to  25 
minutes,  the  time  depending  upon  the  vegetable  used,  but  decide  upon  the 
length  of  time  the  vegetable  is  to  be  cooked  before  experiments  are  started. 
Save  the  water  left  from  each  experiment  to  compare  for  color  and  flavor. 
Notice  the  texture  of  the  vegetable. 

1.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  vegetable.  Cook  covered  for  the  length  of 
time  agreed  upon. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  cook  uncovered. 

3.  Add  salt  to  the  cooking  water.  Use  %  teaspoon  per  cup  of  water.  Cook 
uncovered  and  start  in  boiling  water. 

4.  Cook  uncovered  in  boiling  distilled  water. 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


145 


5.  Cook  uncovered  in  boiling  distilled  water  to  which  1/16  teaspoon  of  soda 
has  been  added. 

6.  Cook  uncovered  in  boiling  distilled  water  to  which  ^  teaspoon  of  vinegar 
has  been  added. 

7.  Cook  in  a  steamer. 

8.  Cook  in  a  pressure  cooker,  10  minutes  at  15  pounds  pressure. 

9.  Cook  in  milk. 

If  desired,  some  of  the  cooking  water  may  be  tested  for  iron  and  phosphates. 

In  which  case  is  the  green  color  of  the  vegetable  best  preserved?  Is  there 
any  difference  in  the  texture  of  the  vegetables  with  soda  and  with  vinegar 
added? 

Vegetable  used: 


Time  of 
cooking 


Color  of 
vegetable 


Texture 


Color  and 

amount  of 

water 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  different  methods  of  cooking  on  the  color  of 
red  vegetables. 

Use  red  cabbage  if  it  can  be  obtained.  If  it  is  not  obtainable,  use  red  onions 
or  beets.  Repeat  the  directions  under  A  for  cooking. 
Vegetable  used: 

C.  To  compare  the  effect  of  different  methods  of  cooking  on  the  color  of 
yellow  vegetables. 

Use  carrots  or  squash.  Repeat  the  directions  under  A  for  cooking.  Do  not 
confuse  caramelization  of  sugar  by  alkali  with  pigment  change  of  color. 

Vegetable  used: 

Compare  the  effect  of  acid  and  alkali  on  the  green,  red  and  yellow  pigments 
found  in  vegetables.  What  is  the  effect  of  the  soda  on  the  texture?  Of  the 
vinegar?  Which  is  the  preferable  way  of  cooking  each  of  the  different  colored 
vegetables  ? 

Experiment  18. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  alkaline  and  neutral  water  upon  the  color  of 
white  cereals  and  vegetables. 

\a.  To  ly^  cups  of  boiling  water  add  %  cup  of  washed  rice.  Cook  until 
tender.  Add  more  boiling  water  if  necessary  during  cooking.  Remove  about 
3^  of  the  cooked  rice  from  the  sauce  pan  and  drain. 

lb.  To  the  rice  remaining  in  the  sauce  pan  from  la,  add  %  to  1/16  of  a 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Cook  2  minutes  and  drain. 

2a.  To  1^  cups  of  boiling  distilled  water  add  %.  cup  of  rice  washed  in 
distilled  water.  Add  boiling  distilled  water  during  cooking  if  necessary.  When 
the  rice  is  tender  remove  about  ^  of  the  cooked  rice  from  the  sauce  pan  and 
drain- 


146 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


2b.  To  the  rice  remaining  in  the  sauce  pan  from  2a,  add  y%  to  1/16  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Cook  2  minutes,  then  drain. 

3.  Add  half  a  white  onion  to  1  cup  of  boiling  tap  water.  Cook  until  tender. 
Save  the  other  half  of  the  onion  for  4. 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  use  distilled  water.  Cook  the  same  length  of  time  as  3. 

5.  Repeat  3  and  4,  using  flowerlets  of  cauliflower  or  white  cabbage. 
Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  19. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  flavor  and  tenderness  of  a  strong-flavored 
vegetable  cooked  by  different  methods  and  for  different  lengths  of  time. 

Use  Ys  pound  (56  grams)  of  cabbage,  Brussels  sprouts,  or  turnips  cut  into 
pieces.  Onions  can  be  used  but  they  become  milder  with  longer  cooking.  Add  1 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender. 

A.  Methods  of  cooking. 

1.  Cook  in  a  covered  vessel. 

2.  Cook  in  an  uncovered  vessel. 

3.  Blanch,  i.e.,  pour  off  the  water  after  cooking  5  minutes,  add  1  cup  of 
freshly  boiled  water,  and  finish  cooking. 

4.  Cook  in  a  steamer. 

5.  Cook  in  a  steamer.  Add  1  gram  of  ammonium  carbonate  per  quart  of 
water  to  the  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  steamer. 

6.  Cook  in  a  pressure  cooker. 

7.  Cook  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

8.  Cook  in  a  waterless  cooker. 

9.  Cook  in  a  distilling  flask,  catching  the  distillate  in  a  flask  held  in  ice 
water.  Catch  the  distillate  in  4  portions,  changing  the  flask  every  3  minutes. 
Do  not  count  the  time  for  the  first  distillate  caught  in  the  flask  until  the  water 
in  the  distilling  flask  is  boiling.  Cork  the  flasks  containing  the  distillate  until 
the  class  is  ready  to  taste  and  smell  the  distillate.  Which  is  stronger,  the  first 
liquid  that  distils  over  or  the  last  portion?  Are  any  of  the  flavoring  and  aro- 
matic substances  of  cabbage,  turnips,  and  onions  volatile? 

Some  of  the  distillate  may  be  tested  for  sulfides  by  adding  a  few  drops  of 
lead  acetate.  Test  the  distillate  with  litmus. 

Taste  the  cooking  water  and  vegetable.  In  which  case  is  the  flavor  of  the 
vegetable  best?  Is  blanching  desirable?  Do  these  experiments  suggest  any 
reason  why  the  juice  of  most  canned  vegetables  is  stronger  than  that  from 
the  fresh  vegetables?  If  you  do  not  want  to  discard  the  water  in  which  a 
strong-flavored  vegetable  is  cooked,  how  would  you  cook  the  vegetable?  How 
use  the  water?  Test  some  of  the  cooking  waters  for  sugar. 

Vegetable  used: 


Time  of 
cooking 


Tend( 


Flavor  of 
vegetable 


Flavor  of 
water 


Flavor  of 
distillate 


Color  of 
water 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


147 


Conclusions. 

B.  Time  of  cooking. 

Use  34  pound  (112  grams)  of  shredded  cabbage  for  each  experiment. 
Should  a  difference  be  made  in  the  time  for  winter  and  spring  cabbage?  Have 
the  water  boiling  when  the  cabbage  is  added.  The  amount  of  water  will  need 
to  be  increased  in  each  experiment  as  the  time  of  cooking  is  increased. 

1.  Cook  5  to  7  minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Try  to  have  nearly 
all  the  water  evaporated  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period. 

2.  Repeat  Bl,  but  cook  8  to  10  minutes. 

3.  Repeat  Bl,  but  cook  25  to  30  minutes.  Add  boiling  water  if  necessary 
to  finish  the  cooking.  Compare  the  flavor  and  color  with  those  of  the  cabbage 
cooked  a  shorter  period. 

4.  To  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  add  ^  pound  of  finely  shredded  cabbage.  Cook 
5  to  7  minutes.  Use  a  pan  of  at  least  a  quart  capacity,  for  milk  boils  over 
readily.  Compare  flavor  and  color  with  Bl  and  B2. 

5.  Repeat  B4,  but  cook  15  minutes. 

C.  The  quantity  of  water  left  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period. 

1.  Repeat  the  first  two  experiments  under  B,  but  have  about  ^  cup  of 
water  left  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period.  Drain  and  save  cooking  water. 
How  does  the  quantity  of  water  compare  with  the  measure  of  the  vegetable? 
Compare  the  flavor  with  that  of  vegetables  from  above  experiments. 

2.  Repeat  CI,  but  have  about  ^  cup  of  water  left  at  the  end  of  the  cooking 
period.  Compare  the  flavor  of  the  cooking  waters. 

3.  Repeat  B  and  C  with  Brussels  sprouts,  cauliflower,  and  white  onions. 

4.  If  the  water  you  use  is  alkaline  in  reaction,  repeat  CI  or  C2,  using  dis- 
tilled water  and  cauliflower  or  white  onions. 

5.  Cook  %  pound  of  peas,  asparagus,  carrots,  or  other  vegetables  until 
tender,  {a)  Have  the  water  evaporated  at  end  of  cooking  period,  {b)  Have 
about  y^  cup  of  water  left,  {c)  Have  about  ^  cup  of  water  left,  {d)  Cook 
in  1  cup  of  milk. 


Time  of 
cooking 


Quantity  of 
water  left 


Texture 


Color 


Fh 


Results  and  conclusions. 

What  is  the  efl[ect  of  long  cooking  on  strong-flavored  vegetables?  Are  some 
vegetables  often  over-cooked?  Is  cabbage  sometimes  cooked  longer  than  25  to 
30  minutes?  Name  several  strong-flavored  vegetables.  Do  cabbage  and  cauli- 
flower turn  a  brownish  red  unless  cooked  too  long?  Do  onions  become  stronger 
in  flavor  with  longer  cooking?  What  length  of  time  of  cooking  produces  the 
best-flavored  product  for  onions,  cauliflower,  and  the  other  vegetables  used? 
With  which  vegetables  would  you  have  considerable  water  left  at  the  end 
of  the  cooking  period?  Would  the  age  of  the  vegetable,  that  is,  young  or  old 
carrots,  turnips,  etc.,  make  any  difference  in  the  quantity  of  water  that  is 
desirable  to  be  left  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period?  With  which  would  you 


148 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


evaporate  the  water?  Would  you  increase  the  water  proportionately  for  a 
larger  quantity  of  vegetable?  Do  vegetables  like  cabbage  and  onions  lose  juice 
during  cooking  that  adds  to  the  cooking  liquid?  What  is  the  percentage  of 
water  found  in  some  common  vegetables? 

Is  the  flavor  of  the  vegetables  cooked  in  milk  as  strong  as  when  cooked 
in  water?  Do  any  of  the  vegetables  curdle  the  milk?  Which  ones?  (See  chapter 
on  milk.) 

What  is  the  effect  on  the  color  of  white  vegetables  of  cooking  in  alkaline 
water?  In  distilled  water? 

Experiment  20. 

To  determine  the  comparative  losses  in  cooking  vegetables  by  different 
methods. 

A.  Use  300  grams  of  carrots  cut  into  cubes  of  the  same  size.  Mix  well  and 
use  100  grams  in  each  experiment.  Use  distilled  water. 

1.  Cook  until  tender  in  a  steamer.  Save  the  water.  Partially  evaporate  the 
water  in  the  cooking  utensil.  When  it  is  sufficiently  concentrated  put  into  a 
weighed  evaporating  dish.  Rinse  the  cooking  vessel  with  a  small  quantity  of 
distilled  water  and  add  to  the  evaporating  dish.  Evaporate  to  dryness.  Weigh 
the  residue  and  determine  the  percentage  of  loss  in  the  cooking  water. 

2.  Cook  in  sufficiently  boiling  water  to  barely  cover.  Measure  the  quantity 
of  water  used.  Watch  carefully.  If  the  water  evaporates  before  the  vegetable 
is  tender  add  boiling  water.  Remove  the  carrots  from  the  cooking  vessel  when 
they  are  tender  and  rinse  the  cooking  vessel  with  a  small  amount  of  distilled 
water.  Put  the  water  in  a  weighed  evaporating  dish.  Evaporate  to  dryness 
and  weigh  the  residue. 

3.  Cook  in  3  times  the  amount  of  boiling  water  used  in  A2,  so  that  a  rather 
large  amount  of  water  is  left  when  the  carrots  are  done.  Evaporate  the  water 
according  to  directions  under  Al. 

B.  Use  3  medium-sized  potatoes  for  each  experiment.  The  potatoes  should 
be  nearly  the  same  size.  Use  distilled  water. 

1.  Cook  with  skins  on.  Evaporate  the  cooking  water  after  the  potatoes  are 
removed  until  only  a  small  quantity  is  left.  Put  in  a  weighed  evaporating  dish, 
evaporate  to  dryness,  and  weigh  the  residue. 

2.  Peel  the  potatoes.  Cook  until  tender.  Proceed  as  in  Bl.  In  which  case 
did  the  greatest  loss  occur  with  the  carrots?  With  the  potatoes? 


Weight  of  residue 


Al 


A2 


A3 


Bl 


B2 


By  what  methods  are  the  losses  in  cooking  vegetables  the  greatest?  How 
can  the  losses  be  reduced  to  a  minimum?  What  do  you  think  of  the  advisa- 
bility of  throwing  away  the  juices  from  canned  vegetables?  The  water  in 
which  vegetables  are  cooked  ? 

Results  and  conclusions. 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


149 


Experiment  21. 

To  determine  the  best  method  of  cooking  dried  vegetables. 

Use  50  grams  of  dried  beans  for  each  experiment.  Keep  a  record  of  the 
time  required  for  cooking,  the  weight  after  soaking  and  after  cooking.  Start 
the  soaked  beans  to  cook  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  the  unsoaked  beans 
in  1  pint.  If  the  beans  become  dry  before  they  are  cooked  add  boiling  water 
of  the  same  kind  used  in  that  particular  experiment.  Cook  all  the  beans  in 
covered  pans.  Test  the  beans  with  the  sharp  point  of  a  knife  or  fork.  Compare 
with  your  neighbors'  results,  to  try  to  have  all  cooked  to  the  same  stage  of 
doneness.  If  you  have  water  softener,  to  soften  hard  water,  repeat  the  experi- 
ments that  call  for  tap  water  to  compare  with  the  results  for  hard  water  and 
distilled  water. 

1.  Wash  the  beans  and  soak  over  night  in  tap  water.  Discard  the  water  in 
which  the  beans  were  soaked.  Weigh  the  beans.  Add  fresh  tap  water  and  cook 
until  tender.  Drain  and  weigh. 

2.  Soak  over  night  in  tap  water  to  which  %  teaspoon  of  soda  is  added. 
Discard  the  soaking  water  and  proceed  as  in   1. 

3.  Soak  the  beans  over  night  in  distilled  water.  Discard  the  soaking  water 
and  weigh  the  beans.  Add  fresh  distilled  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  and 
weigh  the  beans. 

4.  Soak  over  night  in  distilled  water  to  which  %  teaspoon  of  soda  is  added. 
Discard  the  soaking  water  and  weigh  the  beans.  Proceed  as  in  3. 

5.  Cook  in  tap  water  without  soaking.  Weigh. 

6.  Cook  in  tap  water  to  which  %  teaspoon  of  soda  is  added.  Cook  for  10 
minutes,  then  discard  the  water  and  add  fresh  water.  Cook  until  tender.  Weigh. 

7.  Cook  in  distilled  water  until  tender.  Weigh. 

8.  Cook  in  tap  water  to  which  ^4  teaspoon  salt  per  50  grams  of  beans  has 
been  added.  Weigh. 

9.  Cook  in  the  pressure  cooker  for  30  minutes  at  20  pounds  pressure. 

10.  Cook  in  distilled  water  to  which  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  is  added. 

11.  Pour  boiling  water  on  the  beans.  Let  stand.  Weigh  beans  every  hour  to 
compare  the  length  of  time  required  for  soaking  in  warm  and  cold  water. 


Weight  of  beans 

after  soaking 

grams 


Weight  after 
cooking 
grams 


Time  to 
cook 


Text 


ure 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Compare  the  time  required  for  cooking  by  the  different  methods.  In  which 
Is  the  best  product  obtained?  Do  any  of  the  beans  tend  to  lose  their  shape? 
Which  beans  cook  in  the  shortest  time?  What  is  the  effect  of  soaking  on  the 
color  and  flavor  of  the  beans?  On  the  time  required  for  cooking? 

Experiment  22. 

To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  of  fruit  of  cooking  in  a  sugar  sirup. 
A.  Cooking  in  a  sirup  and  adding  the  sugar  after  cooking. 


150  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

1.  To  1  cup  of  water  add  a  cup  of  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pare  and  core 
6  apples.  Do  not  cut  in  pieces.  Cook  in  the  sirup.  The  sirup  should  be  in  a 
rather  small  pan  so  that  the  apples  are  covered  by  the  boiling  sirup.  Cook 
until  the  apples  are  translucent  in  appearance.  It  may  be  necessary  to  cook 
only  a  portion  of  the  apples  at  a  time. 

2.  Peel  and  core  6  apples.  Cut  into  quarters  or  eighths.  For  each  1^  pounds 
of  peeled  apples  add  1  cup  of  water  and  cook  until  soft.  When  soft  add  % 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  1}^  pounds  of  pared  apples.  Compare  with  the  consistency 
of  the  apples  cooked  under  1. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  length  of  time  of  cooking  upon  the  flavor  and 
the  proportion  of  sugar  to  fruit  upon  the  texture  of  the  fruit  in  strawberry 
preserves. 

1.  Wash  and  stem  strawberries.  For  each  pound  of  fruit  (approximately 
1  quart)  add  1  pound  of  sugar  and  let  stand  in  the  refrigerator  over  night. 
When  ready  to  cook  place  in  a  rather  large  sauce  pan  for  the  quantity  of 
berries,  so  that  they  can  boil  rapidly  without  danger  of  boiling  over  the  top  of 
the  pan.  Heat  slowly  and  shake  the  pan  occasionally.  When  the  temperature 
reaches  65°  to  70°C.  (150°F,)  remove  the  pan  from  the  heat  and  keep  warm 
for  about  5  minutes.  Roll  the  berries  occasionally  in  the  sirup.  Put  over  the 
heat  and  bring  to  a  boil  quickly.  Cook  until  the  temperature  of  the  sirup 
registers  103°C.  Let  stand  until  the  bubbles  cease  to  form.  Pour  in  sterilized 
containers.  If  the  berries  float  to  the  top  of  the  can  repeat  the  experiment, 
increasing  the  time  the  fruit  is  held  in  the  sirup  at  a  temperature  of  65°C.  Let 
stand  a  few  days  before  making  comparisons  with  other  preserves.  Keep  a 
record  of  the  time  required  for  cooking. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  for  each  pound  of  fruit  add  1^^  pounds  of  sugar. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  for  each  pound  of  fruit  add  2  pounds  of  sugar. 

4.  To  1  pound  of  berries  add  1  pound  of  sugar.  Let  stand  over  night  in 
refrigerator.  Bring  to  boil  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  another  pound  of  sugar 
and  bring  to  boil.  Boil  5  minutes,  partially  cool,  can,  and  seal, 

5.  Repeat  4  but  pour  berries  into  a  large  platter  and  let  stand  until  sirup 
is  the  consistency  desired.  Seal  in  sterilized  jar. 

6.  Repeat  4,  but  put  berries  in  a  sieve  after  stemming  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  them.  Put  in  kettle,  add  sugar,  and  proceed  as  under  4. 

7.  Make  a  sirup  of  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water.  When  it  is  boiling 
add  1  pound  of  berries.  Cook  until  the  temperature  of  the  sirup  registers 
103°C.  Store  according  to  directions  under   1. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  time  of  adding  sugar  in  making  preserves 
upon  the  texture  of  a  firm  fruit  like  Keifer  pears. 

1.  Pare  and  core  Keifer  pears.  Cut  into  quarters  or  eighths.  To  each  pound 
of  fruit  add  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water.  Cook  until  the  sirup  is  the 
concentration  desired. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  first  cook  the  pears  until  tender  in  water.  Then  add  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit  and  cook  to  the  same  concentration 
as  under  1. 

Compare  the  consistency,  texture,  and  flavor  of  the  apples  cooked  in  sirup 
with  those  cooked  in  water  and  then  sweetened.  Which  is  preferable  for  an 
apple  that  is  to  be   served  whole?   For   a  puree?  Would  putting  the  cooked 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  151 

apples  through  a  sieve  aid  in  obtaining  a  uniform  texture  for  apple  sauce? 
Are  the  apples  used  for  the  experiment  a  sweet  or  a  sour  variety? 

What  is  the  concentration  of  sugar  in  a  sirup  that  boils  at  103°C. ?  See 
Table  10  under  sugar  cookery.  It  is  desirable  for  some  preserves  to  have  a 
greater  concentration  of  sugar  in  the  finished  preserves.  If  65  per  cent  of 
sugar  is  desired,  to  what  temperature  should  the  sirup  be  cooked?  If  a  70 
per  cent  concentration  is  desired?  What  is  the  effect  of  longer  cooking  upon 
the  flavor  of  strawberry  preserves?  Is  it  preferable  to  add  the  sugar  directly 
to  the  berries  or  to  make  a  sirup  first?  Why? 

Compare  with  the  preserves  from  B  in  flavor,  color,  texture,  and  yield. 

In  a  fruit  like  Keifer  pears,  which  contain  considerable  cellulose,  what  is 
the  best  method  of  making  preserves?  What  is  the  effect  upon  the  texture  of 
adding  the  sugar  directly  to  the  fruit?  Would  you  cook  dried  fruit  in  a  sirup? 
Why? 


CHAPTER  V 
JELLY 

The  earliest  work  on  jelly  from  a  school  laboratory  is  that  of  Gold- 
thwaite.  Since  that  time  many  valuable  contributions  have  been  made  deal- 
ing with  jelly  making.  Probably  the  most  extended  recent  investigations 
are  those  of  Spencer,  of  Olsen,  and  of  Tarr  and  his  associates,  Baker  and 
Myers.  They  believe  that  the  formation  of  jelly  "depends  almost  entirely 
upon  the  application  of  the  laws  of  chemistry,  more  especially  the  laws  of 
physical  chemistry." 

Jelly  formation.  Spencer  offers  a  new  theory  for  gelation  of  pectin 
jells.  Stated  briefly  it  is  as  follows.  A  pectin  sol  is  stabilized  by  hj^dration 
and  a  negative  charge  of  the  pectin  particles.  The  greatest  stability  comes 
in  the  neutral  range  as  increasing  either  alkalinity  or  acidity  decreases  its 
stability.  In  jelly  the  role  of  the  sugar  is  that  of  a  precipitating  agent:  the 
more  acid  the  solution,  the  less  sugar  required  for  the  precipitation  of  the 
pectin.  Salts  may  aid  in  precipitation  or  tend  to  prevent  it,  depending  on 
whether  they  increase  or  decrease  the  stability  of  the  pectin. 

For  theoretical  study  of  pectin  jelly  Spencer  recommends  mixing  the 
constituents  of  the  jelly  while  cold  instead  of  the  usual  boiling  of  the 
sugar  and  juice,  which  she  calls  the  hot  evaporation  method.  The  reasons 
for  this  are  four  in  number.  Decomposition  of  both  sugar  and  pectin  occurs 
during  cooking.  The  proportions  of  the  various  constituents  change  by 
evaporation,  hence  it  is  difficult  always  to  obtain  the  concentration  desired. 
The  precipitating  agent  sugar  has  a  limited  solubility.  There  is  danger 
of  premature  precipitation  of  the  pectin  if  all  the  cold  sugar  is  added  at 
one  time  to  the  hot  pectin  mixture.  For  this  experimental  work  dried  pectin 
or  a  concentrated  pectin  solution  is  necessary. 

Olsen  summarizes  the  theory  of  jelly  formation  as  follows:  Granted  that 
pectin  is  a  negatively  charged  hydrophilic  colloid,  the  following  may  be 
assumed:  (1)  sugar  is  the  dehydrating  agent;  (2)  the  hydrogen-ion  con- 
centration reduces  the  negative  charge  on  the  pectin,  thereby  permitting  the 
pectin  to  precipitate  and  coalesce  in  the  form  of  a  network  of  insoluble 
fibers,  provided  the  concentration  of  sugar  is  sufficient;  (3)  the  dehydration 
of  the  pectin  micelles  by  sugar  is  not  instantaneous  but  requires  time  to 
come  to  an  equilibrium;  (4)  the  rate  of  hydration  and  precipitation  in- 
creases in  direct  ratio  as  the  hydrogen-ion  concentration;  (5)  the  maximum 
jelly  strength  is  reached  when  the  system  reaches  equilibrium,  and  depends 
upon  the  position  of  that  equilibrium;  (6)  any  component  added  to  a  pectin 
jelly  system,  including  salts,  which  causes  a  change  in  the  ultimate  jelly 

152 


SOURCES  OF  PECTIN  IN  PLANTS  153 

strength  of  that  system  may  function  either  (a)  by  changing  the  rate  of 
gelation,  or  (b)  by  affecting  the  ultimate  jelly  structure,  or  (c)  a  com- 
bination of  these  two. 

Fruits  Used  for  Jelly 

For  a  fruit  juice  to  make  a  good  jelly  by  boiling  with  the  addition  of 
sugar  only,  the  juice  must  contain  a  sufficient  amount  of  a  substance  called 
pectin  and  also  sufficient  acid.  Some  fruit  juices  will  not  make  acceptable 
jelly  by  this  method  because  they  are  deficient  in  pectin,  whereas  others 
do  not  contain  enough  acid.  In  the  middle  states  west  of  the  Mississippi 
River  the  fruits  most  commonly  used  to  make  jelly  without  addition  of 
pectin  are  apples,  crab-apples,  blackberries,  sour  plums,  grapes,  currants, 
and  gooseberries.  During  the  winter  months  cranberries  are  used  exten- 
sively. 

Cruess  and  McNair  have  reported  that  the  following  fruit  juices  con- 
tain sufficient  acid  and  pectin  to  produce  good  jelly:  blackberries,  logan- 
berries, Isabella  grapes,  Tokay  grapes,  cranberries,  currants,  whole  lemons, 
and  pomelos.  They  state  that  oranges  have  enough  pectin  but  not  always 
enough  acid.  Apricots  and  cherries  sometimes  make  jelly  but  are  usually 
deficient  in  pectin.  Pomegranates  and  strawberries  have  enough  acid  but 
lack  pectin,  and  pears,  peaches,  and  huckleberries  lack  both  pectin  and  acid. 
Citron  melons  and  mission  figs  have  enough  pectin  but  lack  acid.  They  state 
that  lemon  is  too  high  in  acid  to  produce  a  good  jelly,  but  that  two  whole 
oranges  and  one  whole  lemon  make  a  good  combination,  the  acidity  of  the 
lemon  allowing  for  the  deficiency  in  the  orange. 

By  the  addition  of  pectin  and  sugar,  all  fruit  juices,  so  far  as  the  author 
knows,  can  be  used  for  jelly. 

The  Pectic  Substances 

Nomenclature  of  the  pectic  substances.  The  dififerent  names  used 
in  the  literature  for  pectin  and  its  related  compounds  have  been  numerous. 
To  avoid  confusion,  the  Committee  on  the  Nomenclature  of  the  Pectic 
Substances  (Dore,  Chairman)  have  proposed  dividing  these  into  three 
groups:  (1)  protopectin,  (2)  pectin,  and  (3)  pectic  acid.  The  chemical 
identity  of  the  various  pectic  substances  is  not  definitely  settled,  but  a 
great  deal  of  investigational  work  is  being  done  at  the  present  time. 

Function  of  pectic  substances  in  plant  life.  The  pectic  substances 
play  an  important  role  in  plant  life.  Dore  states  that  the  primary  function 
of  the  pectic  substances  is  the  cementing  together  of  the  individual  cells 
that  compose  the  plant. 

Sources  of  pectin  in  plants.  The  pectic  substances  are  found  in  the 
leaves,  bark,  roots,  tubers,  stalks,  and  fruits  of  plants.  The  pectic  com- 
pounds occur  in  two  places  in  the  plant  cell — in  the  middle  lamella,  where 


154  JELLY 

they  serve  as  cementing  material,  and  as  thickened  places  on  the  cell  wall. 
These  two  sources  may  yield  slightly  different  substances.  In  fruits  the 
pectin  is  usually  found  in  the  pulp  and  not  in  the  juice,  though  there  are 
some  exceptions.  For  example,  currant  juice  often  contains  pectin.  The 
skins  and  cores  of  fruit  like  apples  contain  large  proportions  of  pectin. 
Hence,  apples  and  crab-apples  are  cut  into  small  pieces,  but  not  peeled 
or  cored,  for  making  jelly.  Some  of  the  root  stocks,  such  as  sugar  beets, 
carrots,  rutabagas,  and  turnips,  contain  appreciable  amounts  of  pectin. 

The  amount  of  pectin  not  only  varies  in  different  fruits,  but  also  in  the 
same  fruit  at  various  stages  of  ripeness  and  in  the  same  fruit  in  different 
years  or  seasons. 

Protopectin.  Protopectin  has  been  called  pectose  and  pectinogen.  It 
is  the  water-insoluble  pectic  substance  in  plants.  It  may  be  rendered  soluble 
by  the  enzyme  protopectinase  or  by  treatment  with  acid  and  other  reagents. 
The  soluble  substances  thus  formed  are  designated  as  pectins. 

Sucharipa  has  presented  evidence  that  the  protopectin  is  combined  with 
cellulose.  In  the  plant,  the  separation  of  the  pectin  from  the  cellulose  is 
brought  about  by  hydrolysis  by  the  enzyme  protopectinase. 

The  protopectin  is  the  precursor  of  pectin.  As  the  fruit  ripens,  pectin 
increases  while  the  protopectin  decreases.  Protopectin  is  also  converted  to 
pectin  by  boiling  with  dilute  acid.  Since  fruit  juices  contain  acid,  some 
protopectin  is  changed  to  pectin  when  the  fruit  is  boiled.  This  is  the  reason 
why  cooked  fruit  juices  are  better  for  jelly  than  uncooked  ones. 

Conrad',  influenced  by  Ehrlich's  work,  found  that  as  the  pectin  of  the 
fruit  increases,  a  pentose-bearing  polysaccharide  is  liberated  at  the  same 
time  from  the  protopectin,  its  proportions  paralleling  that  of  the  pectin 
to  a  great  extent.  This  furfural-yielding  polysaccharide  is  separated  from 
the  pectic  substances  by  its  solubility  in  70  per  cent  alcohol. 

Pectin.  Among  the  various  names  that  have  been  applied  to  pectin  are 
parapectin,  pectinogen,  and  protopectin.  The  term  is  applied  to  the  meth- 
ylated pectic  substances  that  form  a  colloidal  solution  in  water.  It  is  the 
jelly-forming  substances  of  the  pectic  compounds,  although  the  pectins  with 
fewer  methyl  groups  have  less  jellying  power  than  those  with  a  greater 
number. 

According  to  Sucharipa  the  pectins  may  be  classified  into  ( 1 )  free  pectins, 
which  are  removable  from  the  plant  by  water  solution,  and  (2)  hydrol- 
ysis pectins,  which  result  from  treating  protopectin  with  hydrolyzing 
agents. 

Pectic  acid.  In  fruit,  protopectin  is  changed  to  pectin  by  enzymes  of 
the  fruit.  With  still  further  ripening,  pectic  acid  is  formed  from  pectin 
by  the  enzyme  pectase.  These  changes  are  gradual,  but  the  larger  portion 
of  the  pectic  acid  is  formed  when  the  fruit  is  ripe  and  when  decay  begins. 
In  the  presence  of  pectase  and  calcium,  barium,  or  strontium  salts,  pectic 
acid  may  form  a  gel. 

Dore  states  that,  when  the  protopectin  is  in  combination  with  cellulose. 


THE  PECTIC  SUBSTANCES  155 

the  under-ripe  fruit  is  firm.  As  the  fruit  ripens  it  becomes  softer  as  the 
protopectin  is  changed  to  the  pectin.  Rotten  fruit  is  entirely  disintegrated 
because  the  pectin  has  been  changed  to  pectic  acid. 

In  fruits  the  rate  at  which  softening  takes  place  depends  largely  upon 
the  temperature.  Haller  has  shown  this  for  a  number  of  varieties  of  apples 
in  storage.  The  rate  "at  40°F.  was  found  to  be  slightly  more  than  double 
that  at  32°,  whereas  that  at  50°  was  slightly  less  than  double  that  at 
40°,  and  that  at  60°  nearly  double  the  rate  at  50°." 

Pectinase  is  a  term  applied  to  the  enzyme  which  hydrolyzes  pectin  and 
pectic  acid  into  their  simplest  cleavage  products. 

Constitution  of  the  pectic  substances.  The  constitution  of  the 
pectic  substances  is  not  definitely  known.  The  purest  pectins,  when  treated 
with  a  dilute  alkali,  yield  10  to  12  per  cent  of  methyl  alcohol,  showing 
that  methoxy  groups  (CH3O)  are  found  in  the  molecule.  As  the  methoxy 
groups  are  split  off,  different  series  of  pectin  compounds  are  formed,  these 
compounds  having  different  jellying  powers.  The  greater  the  number  of 
methoxy  groups  split  off,  the  less  the  jellying  power  and  the  more  sirupy 
the  jelly.  Pectic  acid  is  the  demethoxylated  pectin.  Since  pectic  acid  is  the 
simplest  and  the  most  easily  purified  of  the  pectic  compounds,  it  has  been 
prepared  in  the  purest  state.  Schryver  and  Haynes  have  suggested  that 
pectic  acid  is  composed  of  one  molecule  of  galactose,  one  of  arabinose,  and 
four  of  galacturonic  acid  arranged  in  a  ring,  the  last  having  the  four  car- 
boxyls  of  the  acid  groups  free  for  methyl  ester  formation. 

Sucharipa  states  that  the  chemical  difference  between  free  pectins  and 
hydrolysis  pectins  is  that  arabinose  is  in  the  former,  whereas  it  is  split  off 
from  the  latter  by  hydrolysis. 

Other  investigators  question  the  presence  of  arabinose  as  a  constituent 
of  pectic  acid,  since  it  is  impossible  for  it  to  be  formed  from  galacturonic 
acid.  Acetic  acid  has  been  reported  among  the  decomposition  products  of 
pectic  acid  obtained  from  pectin  of  flax  and  sugar  beets. 

Olsen  states  that  most  of  the  recent  work  on  the  chemistry  of  the  pectin 
molecule  fails  to  consider  that  pectins  may  vary  depending  upon  their  source. 
He  adds  that  it  has  long  been  known  commercially  that  citrus  and  apple 
pectins,  irrespective  of  grade,  form  jellies  of  definitely  different  types, 
though  this  has  not  been  recognized  in  the  scientific  literature. 

Protopectin  and  pectic  acid  do  not  form  jellies.  Protopectin  and 
pectic  acid  do  not  form  jelly  when  cooked  with  sugar  and  a  fruit  juice 
containing  acid,  although  pectin  forms  a  jelly  under  these  conditions.  Since 
over-ripe  fruit  contains  a  larger  proportion  of  pectic  acid  and  a  smaller 
percentage  of  pectin,  this  furnishes  the  explanation  for  the  fact  that  many 
jelly  makers  have  long  known,  that  juice  from  partially  ripe  fruit  makes 
a  better  jelly  than  juice  from  over-ripe  fruit. 

Cooked  extracted  fruit  juice  is  better  for  jelly.  Fruit  juice  ex- 
tracted raw  or  without  cooking  will  seldom  make  jelly,  or  it  yields  a  jelly  of 
poor  quality.  Since  the  protopectin  is  not  soluble  in  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  if 


156  JELLY 

the  juice  is  extracted  raw  it  remains  with  the  pulp  of  the  fruit.  If  cooked, 
some  of  the  protopectin  is  changed  to  pectin.  Goldthwaite  has  reported 
experiments  with  apple  and  some  other  fruit  juices  extracted  raw.  Either 
no  jelly  was  obtained  or  it  had  a  poor  texture. 

Extraction  o£  and  preparation  o£  juice  for  jelly.  Hard  fruits  like 
apples  and  crab-apples  are  cut  into  small  pieces  or  ground  with  a  food  chop- 
per, barel}^  covered  with  water,  and  cooked.  Soft  berries  need  little  water 
added,  ^4  cup  to  a  pound  of  fruit  often  being  used.  Currants  that  are  not 
too  ripe  should  have  a  larger  proportion  of  w^ater.  Gooseberries,  if  green, 
because  of  their  very  high  acid  and  pectin  content  and  the  character  of  the 
pectin,  can  be  completely  covered  w^ith  water,  and  sometimes  will  need 
additional  w^ater.  Ripe  gooseberries  require  the  same  proportion  of  water 
used  for  other  berries.  After  cooking,  the  juice  is  drained  without  squeezing 
from  the  pulp  by  placing  the  cooked  material  in  a  cloth  bag.  Fruits  that 
are  very  rich  in  pectin  may  have  two  or  three  extractions  made.  These 
second  and  third  extractions  need  to  be  boiled  down  more  than  the  first 
extraction  to  concentrate  the  pectin.  Second  and  third  extractions  also  do 
not  have  as  much  of  the  fruit  flavor  as  the  first  one. 

Apple  juice  sometimes  contains  starch,  particularly  that  from  under-ripe 
fruit,  which  renders  the  juice  cloudy.  Askew  states  that  starch  formation 
begins  near  the  periphery  and  progresses  toward  the  core ;  but  as  the  fruit 
matures  the  core  area  is  cleared  of  starch  first,  the  area  near  the  skin  last. 
Commercially,  diastase  can  be  added  to  convert  the  starch  to  sugar  and  thus 
clear  the  juice. 

Grape  juice  contains  tartaric  acid,  which  often  crystallizes  in  long  needle- 
like cr3^stals  in  the  jelly.  It  can  be  removed  partially  from  the  juice  by  put- 
ting the  juice  in  a  refrigerator  (the  colder  the  better,  but  it  is  less  soluble 
at  lower  temperatures),  over  night,  or  for  a  few  days,  and  then  straining 
the  crystals  from  the  juice. 

The  Role  of  Pectin  in  Jelly  Formation 

According  to  Spencer's  theory,  the  precipitation  of  pectin  forms  the  jelly. 
Sugar,  glycerin,  or  alcohol  may  be  used  as  precipitating  agents.  Spencer 
states  "The  successful  making  of  alcohol  jellies  requires  rapidity  of  motion 
and  practice,  otherwise  one  obtains  a  precipitate  and  not  a  homogeneous 
jelly."  The  qualitative  aspects  of  the  boundary  line  between  fields  of  the 
jelly  and  the  sol  shown  in  Fig.  14  are  by  Spencer.  She  states  that  the 
quantitative  aspects  of  these  boundary  lines  are  meaningless,  because  the 
pectin  used  contained  some  ash.  From  this  figure  it  is  deduced  that  jellies 
with  sugar  as  the  precipitating  agent  are  not  possible  in  the  neutral  region 
owing  to  the  solubility  limit  of  sugar.  Although  alkaline  jellies  are  in- 
teresting theoretically,  practically  they  are  of  less  importance,  since  they 
cannot  be  used  as  food  on  account  of  their  flavor. 

Concentration  of  pectin  required  for  jelly.  The  strength  of  the 


PECTIN  TEST  BY  ALCOHOL 


157 


jelly  is  in  proportion  to  the  concentration  of  the  pectin,  if  other  factors  re- 
main the  same.  Too  small  a  proportion  of  pectin  yields  a  jelly  that  is  too  soft 
and  sirupy ;  too  great  a  concentration  gives  a  product  that  is  too  firm  and  hard. 
However,  after  a  certain  amount  of  pectin  has  been  added  any  excess  re- 
mains inactive.  The  concentration  of  pectin  required  for  a  jelly  of  good  con- 
sistency varies  with  the  proportion  of  sugar  used,  the  acidity  of  the  juice  or 
solution,  the  salt  content  of  the  particular  juice  being  used,  the  time,  and 
temperature  factors.  Good  home-made  jelly  may  contain  0.75  to  1.0  per 
cent  of  pectin.  Commercial  jelly,  on  account  of  shipping,  is  somewhat  stiffer, 
averaging  about  1.25  per  cent  of  pectin. 

Pectins  from  different  sources  yield  characteristic  jellies.  Olsen 
states  that  jellies  made  from  citrus  pectins  are  comparatively  friable  and 

Crystallization   Limit 


Alkaline 


Neutral 


Acid 


X-Axis;  %  Precipitating  Agent 

Fig.  14. — From  Spencer,  "A  qualitative  view  of  the  relations  of  the  boundary 
curves  of  pectin  jelly  fields  for  sugar,  glycerine,  and  alcohol  jellies.  The  alcohol 
jelly  field  is  the  largest,  and  the  sugar  jelly  field  the  smallest."  J.  Physical  Chem. 
33:   1993. 


have  little  elasticity;  whereas  jellies  made  from  apple  pectins  are  highly 
elastic,  but  require  and  tolerate  less  acid  than  citrus  pectin  jellies  similarly 
prepared.  Cranberry  pectin  tends  to  yield  firm  jellies  which  will  not  spread 
readily.  Cox  states  that  a  better-textured  cranberry  jelly  for  spreading  pur- 
poses is  obtained  if  the  pectin  occurring  in  the  juice  is  hydrolyzed  by  adding 
the  enzyme  pectinase,  available  in  commercial  form  under  the  name  Pec- 
tinol.  A  slower-setting  pectin  is  then  added  to  the  juice.  With  a  rapid- 
setting  pectin  gelation  may  start  before  the  sirup  is  poured,  and  the  pouring 
breaks  the  structure  so  that  a  mass  of  small  lumps  is  formed. 

Three  fairly  easy  methods  of  determining  the  amount  of  pectin  present 
in  fruit  juice  are  available  for  the  housekeeper.  One  is  to  cook  a  small 
portion  of  the  juice  with  sugar  to  see  if  it  will  form  jelly.  Another  is  to 
test  the  juice  with  alcohol.  The  third  is  to  test  the  viscosity  of  the  juice 
with  a  jelmeter. 

Pectin  test  by  alcohol.  Alcohol  precipitates  pectin  in  a  jelly-like  mass. 
By  the  character  of  the  precipitated  pectin  an  approximate  estimate  can  be 
made  of  the  amount  of  pectin  in  the  juice.  For  the  test,   1  tablespoon  oi 


158  JELLY 

juice  is  poured  into  3  to  5  tablespoons  of  alcohol.  Sometimes  equal  quantities 
of  juice  and  alcohol  are  used,  but  the  larger  amount  of  alcohol  gives  a 
better  test.  Turn  the  container  gently  from  side  to  side.  If  a  test  tube  or 
graduated  cylinder  is  used  it  can  be  turned  slowly  upside  down  and  back 
to  bring  all  the  juice  in  contact  with  the  alcohol.  If  the  pectin  comes  down 
in  a  solid  mass  there  is  a  sufficient  quantity  to  make  jelly.  If  the  pectin  is 
flocculent  or  in  small  flakes  the  juice  needs  boiling  down  to  concentrate  the 
pectin. 

Johnston  and  Denton  have  reported  that  the  amount  of  alcohol  precipi- 
tate in  citrus  pectin  extracts  does  not  indicate  the  jellying  power.  It  may 
also  be  possible  that  the  amount  precipitated  in  different  juices  will  show 
different  jellying  strengths.  Of  course,  alcohol  precipitates  such  substances 
as  gums  and  starch  in  addition  to  the  pectin.  The  precipitated  mass  becomes 
firmer  after  standing  in  the  alcohol  a  few  minutes,  so  the  estimate  should 
be  made  just  after  mixing. 

For  the  pectin  test,  straight  ethyl  alcohol,  denatured,  or  wood  alcohol 
can  be  used.  The  denatured  alcohol  is  better  to  use  than  the  wood  alcohol 
and  usually  gives  a  satisfactory  test.  When  wood  alcohol  is  used,  the 
precipitated  pectin  may  be  redissolved  after  standing  a  few  minutes.  This 
may  also  be  true  of  some  denatured  alcohol. 

Pectin  test  by  viscosity.  Based  on  the  observed  correlation  of  the 
viscosity  of  pectin  solutions  with  the  jellying  power  of  the  pectin,  Baker 
has  developed  a  jelmeter.  The  viscosity  of  the  fruit  juice  is  determined 
by  the  rate  of  flow  of  the  juice  through  a  given  orifice  compared  with  the 
time  of  flow  of  an  equal  quantity  of  water  at  the  same  temperature.  The 
viscosity  or  thickness  of  the  fruit  juice  is  dependent  principally  upon  its 
pectin  concentration,  although  sugars,  starches,  and  proteins  influence  it 
slightly.  If  the  approximate  viscosity  is  known,  then  the  amount  of  sugar 
to  use  and  the  weight  to  which  the  jelly  should  be  cooked  can  be  determined. 
Baker  has  prepared  such  tables. 

The  jelmeter  is  similar  to  a  graduated  pipette.  The  test  is  easy  to  make 
and  practical.  It  works  satisfactorily  with  the  fruit  juices  that  have  been 
tested. 

Effect  o£  high  temperatures  and  a  long  period  of  heating  upon 
pectin.  Numerous  investigators,  among  them  Johnston  and  Denton, 
Sucharipa,  and  Tarr,  have  found  that  high  temperatures  decrease  the  jelly- 
ing power  of  pectin.  Myers  and  Baker  state  that  "Prolonged  heating  of 
pectin  solution  has  a  deleterious  effect  on  the  jellying  power  of  the  solution. 
The  higher  the  temperature  the  greater  the  decrease  in  jellying  power 
of  the  pectin."  They  find  that  heat  has  the  same  effect  on  the  powdered 
pectin  as  upon  the  pectin  in  solution. 

The  boiling  of  a  pectin  solution  with  acid  decreases  the  amount  of  pectin 
in  the  solution  because  of  the  formation  of  pectic  acid  by  hydrolysis.  Some 
of  Tarr's  data  seem  to  indicate  that,  if  the  sugar  is  in  the  juice  during 


COMMERCIAL  PECTIN 


159 


the  boiling  period,  hydrolysis  Is  delayed.  The  following  table  is  from 
Tarr's  results  and  shows  that  the  decrease  In  jelly  strength  was  con- 
siderable when  the  pectin  and  acid  were  boiled  before  the  sugar  was  added. 
Commercial  pectin.  Commercial  pectin  is  on  the  market  in  two 
forms :  ( 1 )  the  liquid  form  and  (2)  the  powdered  dry  pectin.  The  first  type 
of  commercial  pectin  is  a  concentrated  liquid  pectin.  It  usually  contains  4 
to  4.5  per  cent  of  pectin.  The  second  form  is  a  mixture  of  dry  powdered 
pectin  and  sugar.  It  is  similar  to  dry  gelatin  and  sugar  mixtures  on  the 
market  In  that  It  contains  the  sugar,  and  only  the  juice  needs  to  be  added 
for  making  jelly.  Wilson  states  that  there  is  no  uniformity  In  jelly  strength 

TABLE  21 

The  Effect  on  Jelly  Strength  of  Boiling  the  Pectin  with  Acid  Previous 
To  Adding  the  Sugar  (Tarr) 


Jelly  strength,  pressure 

Time  of  boiling 

Time  of  boiling 

in  centimeters  of  water 

pectin  and  acid, 
minutes 

pectin,  acid  and 
sugar,  minutes 

Top 

Bottom 

0.0 

19.4 

61.5 

79.5 

1.0 

19.2 

58.0 

77.5 

2.0 

19.5 

58.5 

76.5 

3.0 

17.2 

57.5 

73.0 

4.0 

17.5 

55.5 

70.5 

6.0 

13.2 

49.5 

67.5 

8.0 

11.0 

44.0 

62.0 

10.0 

9.0 

41.0 

58.5 

11.3 

6.3 

39.5 

54.5 

12.0 

6.3 

33.5 

49.0 

of  these  pectin  preparations  but  that  a  dry  pectin  that  will  jell  about  40 
times  Its  weight  of  sugar  is  a  practical  one.  The  dry  powdered  pectin  is 
sold  in  large  quantities  to  commercial  jelly  and  jam  makers.  The  dry  pectin 
without  the  added  sugar  is  now  available  for  the  housekeeper. 

Rooker  states  that  the  powdered  pectins  will  eventually  replace  the 
liquid  pectins.  This  Is  because  the  "powder  is  cheaper.  Is  easier  to  handle, 
haul,  cart,  and  store.  It  does  not  spoil  and  deteriorate.  Powdered  apple 
pectin  retains  its  jellying  strength  indefinitely  while  sirup  pectins  deteriorate 
if  kept  any  material  length  of  time.  A  container  of  powdered  pectin  may 
be  opened  and  used  as  needed,  while  a  container  of  pectin  sirup  must  be 
used  almost  at  once  or  the  balance  of  the  opened  can  will  spoil." 

Rooker  gives  many  uses  of  pectin  in  addition  to  making  jelly  and  jam. 
Among  these  are  use  in  emulsions  for  pharmaceutical  purposes,  In  emul- 


160  JELLY 

sions  for  tree  spraying,  in  crushed  fruits  for  soda  fountains,  as  "candy 
doctors,"  in  confections,  etc. 

Myers  and  Baker  after  extensive  experiments  with  the  jellying  proper- 
ties of  pectic  substances,  recommend  that  pectin  should  be  bought  and  sold 
on  a  basis  of  jellying  strength. 

Olsen  states  that,  commercially,  pectins  are  graded  on  the  basis  of  the 
amount  of  sugar  they  will  carry.  Thus  a  160-grade  pectin,  as  supplied  by 
a  definite  source,  is  one  which,  when  used  in  a  jelly  containing  65  per  cent 
of  sugar  by  weight  with  a  proper  amount  of  acid  in  the  proportion  of  one 
part  of  pectin  to  160  parts  of  sugar,  yields  a  satisfactory  jelly.  Olsen  has 
also  shown  that  the  strength  of  a  jelly  will  vary  with  the  temperature  to 
which  the  pectin  is  heated.  Hence  a  standardized  procedure  for  testing 
pectin  strength  is  essential. 

With  the  aid  of  commercial  pectin,  which  the  housekeeper  can  add  to 
fruit  juices  that  are  deficient  in  pectin,  jelly  and  jam  can  be  made  from 
many  varieties  of  fruit. 

The  Role  of  Acid  in  Jelly  Formation 

Although  acid  is  not  essential  for  jelly  formation  its  presence  in  fruit 
jellies  is  very  important.  Singh  has  reported  that  "between  certain  limits 
the  greater  the  acidity  of  the  juice  the  lower  the  amount  of  sugar  re- 
quired." He  adds  that  it  has  long  been  known  that  juices  of  high  acidity 
yield  firmer  jellies  than  juices  deficient  in  acid  but  with  as  high  a  pectin 
content. 

Spencer  has  published  data  showing  the  increase  of  rigidity  of  jellies 
with  increase  of  acid  when  the  pectin  and  sugar  concentrations  are  con- 
stant. Spencer  explains  the  action  of  acid  in  this  way.  The  strength  of  a 
jell  netw^ork  depends  upon  the  continuity  and  the  rigidity  of  the  structure. 
"Continuity  of  structure,  by  hypothesis,  depends  upon  the  number  and 
proximity  of  pectin  particles  at  the  time  of  precipitation,"  which  in  turn 
is  determined  by  the  degree  of  dispersion  and  concentration  of  the  pectin. 
"DifFerepces  in  rigidity  are  due  to  the  amount  of  water  retained  by  the 
pectin  at  the  equilibrium  established  during  precipitation."  Hydrogen  (or 
hydroxyl)  ions  lessen  the  stability  of  the  pectin  sol  by  decreasing  the  hydra- 
tion capacity  of  the  pectin.  Hence  in  an  acid  medium  less  sugar  is  required 
to  bring  about  precipitation.  Nearly  neutral  fruit  juices  will  not  form 
jelly  with  sugar  because  the  sugar  is  not  soluble  enough  to  allow  precipita- 
tion of  the  more  stabile  pectin.  Hence  with  a  definite  concentration  of 
pectin  the  rigidity  of  the  jelly  is  determined  by  the  sugar  and  acid  con- 
centrations. 

Hydrogen-ion  concentration  and  jelly.  Tarr  has  determined  the 
minimum  amounts  of  several  acids  required  to  produce  a  jelly  and  also 
the  amount  of  the  acids  to  produce  an  optimum  jelly  by  the  hot  evaporation 
method  with  pectin,  sugar,  acid,  and  water.  Optimum  jelly  is  defined  as 


ACIDS  IN  FRUITS  161 

the  jelly  which  in  his  judgment  has  the  best  texture.  For  jelly  formation, 
when  other  conditions  were  standardized,  the  minimum  amounts  of  the 
acids  were  as  follows:  8.5  cc.  of  0.1  A^  sulfuric  acid;  27.5  cc.  of  0.1  A^ 
phosphoric  acid;  22.7  cc.  of  0.1  N  tartaric  acid;  52.9  cc.  of  0.1  N  citric 
acid;  and  583.3  cc.  of  0.1  A^  acetic  acid.  The  total  acidity  of  the  minimum 
amounts  required  for  forming  a  jelly  varied,  but  the  acids  were  all  at  the 
same  pH,  3.40.  For  optimum  jelly  the  acids  were  all  at  pH  3.1. 

But  although  hydrogen-ion  concentration  controls  the  formation  and 
character  of  the  jelly  to  a  certain  extent,  the  salt  content  of  pectin  or  of 
fruit  juices,  the  temperature  to  which  the  pectin  is  heated,  and  the  rate  of 
pouring  may  extend  this  pH  range,  as  will  be  seen  later.  In  Tarr's  jelly  a 
pH  of  3.46  gave  a  very  tender  jelly,  but  increasing  the  hydrogen-ion  con- 
centration below  />H  3.1  gave  syneresis  or  weeping.  The  best  jellies  were 
obtained  with  pH  3.3  to  3.1.  Olsen  and  others  have  suggested  that  with  pH 
lower  than  3.1,  jelly  failure  and  increased  syneresis  may  result  because  of 
the  increased  rate  of  setting.  Olsen  has  shown  that  an  increase  of  hydrogen- 
ion  concentration  increases  the  rate  at  which  the  jelly  sets. 

The  hydrogen-ion  concentration  of  ordinary  fruit  juices  depends  upon 
the  particular  acid  present,  upon  the  quantity  of  acid  present,  and  upon 
the  "buffer"  action  exerted  by  the  particular  juice. 

Relation  of  the  time  factor  to  optimum  acidity.  Olsen  assumed 
that  the  lowering  of  jelly  strength  might  be  caused  by  incomplete  dehydra- 
tion of  the  pectin  and  lessened  precipitation  or  by  a  more  flexible  network 
of  pectin.  To  test  the  second  postulate  he  prepared  jellies  by  heating  the 
pectin  to  55°C.  and  to  boiling.  The  jelly  at  55°  was  made  as  follows:  The 
pectin,  30  grams  of  sugar,  and  water  to  make  a  total  weight  of  140  grams 
were  brought  to  36°C.  The  minimum  amount  of  acid,  the  remaining  sugar, 
and  water  were  boiled  together,  cooled  to  65°C.,  and  adjusted  to  correct 
weight  with  distilled  water.  The  additional  acid  and  the  pectin  solution 
were  added  and  stirred,  the  time  was  varied  from  the  moment  the  pectin 
solution  was  poured  into  the  warm  sirup  until  the  mixture  was  poured  in 
jelly  glasses,  as  shown  in  Table  22.  The  strength  was  tested  with  a  Tarr 
and  Baker  jelly  strength  tester.  Olsen  states  that  a  high-grade  pectin  made 
by  the  standardized  hot  method  gives  a  reading  close  to  45. 

The  optimum  pH  varies  with  the  time  factor.  The  principal  variation  is 
the  rate  of  gelation  of  the  pectin  as  influenced  by  the  acid  concentration. 
Olsen  explains  this  as  follows:  "The  largest  or  'optimum'  amount  of  the 
acid  to  be  used  will  be  that  point  at  which  an  additional  increase  in  acid 
will  increase  the  rate  of  setting  to  a  point  where  loss  in  jelly  strength  due  to 
a  disturbance  of  the  jelly  in  the  stirring  or  pouring  exactly  balances  the 
strengthening  effect  of  that  same  increment  of  acid."  Or  in  other  words, 
stirring  or  pouring  hinders  jelly  formation,  which  is  offset  by  increasing 
the  hydrogen-ion  concentration. 

Acids  in  fruits.  The  acids  occurring  naturally  in  fruit  juices  that 
are  used  for  jelly  are  tartaric,  malic,  and  citric.  Sometimes  acetic  acid  is 


162 


JELLY 


TABLE  22 

The  Relation  of  the  Time  Factor  to  Optimum  Acidity.  (Olsen) 

(The  time  indicated  is  the  interval  between  the  pouring  of  the  pectin  solution 
into  the  sugar  sirup  and  the  pouring  of  the  mixture  into  glasses.  Jellies  contain 
60  per  cent  of  sugar,  2.5  grams  of  apple  pectin  119°F.,  phosphoric  acid  as  in- 
dicated. Temperature  of  pectin  solution  36°C.;  of  sugar  solution  65°C.;  of  final 
mixture  55°C.)  (Olsen) 


Series 

B 

Series  C 

Series 

D 

25%  phos- 

90 seconds 

50  seconds 

8  secon 

ds 

phoric  acid 

solution 

cc. 

Jelly 
Strength 

pH 

Jelly 
strength 

^H 

Jelly 
Strength 

pH 

0.26 

0.0 

3.27 

0.36 

33.0 

3.10 

36^5 

3.13 

0.56 

69.0 

2.80 

67.0 

2.88 

0.86 

80.0 

2.50 

0.96 

41.0 

2.39 

.... 

.... 

115.0 

2.40 

1.06 

.... 

75.0 

2.37 

1.26 

61.5 

2.24 

1.56 

19.0 

2.13 

120.0 

2.13 

1.96 

14.5 

2.03 

28.5 

2.00 

145.0 

2.01 

3.96 

.... 



135.0 

1.76 

added  to  apple  juice  to  make  spiced  apple  jelly.  Tarr's  results  show  that 
acetic  acid  is  of  little  value  to  add  to  a  juice  to  increase  its  jellying  power, 
because  it  volatilizes  during  boiling  and  is  only  slightly  ionized  in  solution. 

Goldthwaite  has  reported  that,  when  tartaric  and  citric  acids  w^ere  used  to 
acidify  fruit  juices  deficient  in  acid,  tartaric  acid  gave  better  results,  the 
texture  and  flavor  being  better  than  when  citric  acid  was  used.  Tarr's 
results  confirm  Goldthwaite's  observations.  Spencer  explains  this  difference 
in  the  following  manner.  Since  pectin  sols  are  partially  stabilized  by  a 
negative  charge,  the  preferential  absorption  of  one  anion  above  that  of 
another  would  increase  the  stability  of  the  pectin  sol.  In  other  words,  the 
citrate  ion  is  more  strongly  absorbed  than  the  tartrate  ion,  hence  increases 
the  negative  charge  on  the  pectin  to  a  greater  extent,  making  it  more  stable, 
less  easily  precipitated,  so  that  a  weaker  jelly  is  obtained  with  citric  acid 
than  tartaric,  if  the  same  concentrations  of  pectin  and  sugar  are  used. 

Methods  of  reporting  acidity  of  fruit  juices.  Investigators  have 
reported  concentration  of  acids  required  for  jelly  in  different  ways.  The 
/»H  gives  the  concentration  of  hydrogen  ion  or  ionized  part  of  the  acid. 
Some  report  acid  as  number  of  cubic  centimeters  per  100  grams  of  jelly. 
However,  work  done  some  time  ago  was  usually  reported  in  percentage  of 


ROLE  OF  SALTS  IN  JELLY  FORMATION  163 

some  acid,  not  necessarily  the  one  found  in  the  fruit.  It  has  often  been 
reported  as  sulfuric  acid.  The  concentration  of  the  acid  is  determined  by 
titration  with  an  alkali ;  from  the  quantity  of  alkali  required  the  percentage 
of  acid  is  calculated.  Campbell  states  that  0.3  per  cent  as  sulfuric  acid 
is  required  to  produce  a  jelly  of  good  quality,  the  minimum  being  0.27 
and  the  maximum  0.5  per  cent.  Goldthwaite  has  reported  from  0.154  to 
1.892  per  cent  as  sulfuric  acid.  Singh  has  reported  still  lower  percentages 
of  acids  than  these,  but  his  jellies  with  a  very  low  percentage  of  acid 
contain  an  unusually  high  percentage  of  pectin. 

The  Effect  of  Temperature  to  Which  Pectin  Is  Heated 
on  Jelly  Strength 

Olsen  states  that  the  abnormally  high  jelly  strength  with  pectin  heated 
to  only  55°,  shown  in  Table  22,  is  not  the  result  of  the  time  factor  alone. 
To  prove  this  he  recovered  the  pectin  from  duplicate  batches  of  jelly,  one 
of  which  had  been  heated  to  100°  and  poured;  the  other  poured  at  50°C. 
The  recovered  pectins  were  remade  into  jelly  at  50°.  Both  gave  jellies  test- 
ing as  high  in  strength  as  the  original  jelly  poured  at  50 °C.  This  proved 
that  the  lesser  strength  of  the  pectin  heated  to  100°  was  not  due  to  hydrol- 
ysis of  the  pectin  but  the  effect  of  temperature  upon  the  gel  structure.  From 
these  results  Olsen  concludes  that  "the  structure  of  jelly  is  fundamentally 
different  when  slowly  set  from  the  hot  solution  than  when  rapidly  set  from 
the  cool  sirup.  If  we  assume  that  pectin  exists  in  two  states  of  hydration; 
that  is,  if  the  amount  of  water  bound  by  the  pectin  fibrils  differs  depending 
upon  the  temperature  at  which  the  pectin  is  precipitated,  then  a  ready  ex- 
planation is  at  hand." 

These  results  are  not  to  be  interpreted  as  showing  that  hydrolysis  of  the 
pectin  does  not  occur  with  long  boiling  but  that  none  takes  place  with  a 
short-boil  process. 

The  Role  of  Salts  in  Jelly  Formation 

The  role  salts  play  in  jelly  formation  is  not  emphasized  as  much  as 
that  of  pectin,  acid,  and  sugar,  but  it  is  an  important  one.  All  fruit  juices 
contain  salts  of  the  acids  found  in  the  fruit.  In  addition  to  these,  other 
salts  may  be  found. 

Halliday  and  Bailey  have  reported  that  the  addition  of  calcium  chloride 
favors  jelly  formation,  as  somewhat  lower  concentrations  of  pectin,  acid, 
and  sugar  are  required  when  it  is  added.  On  the  acid  side,  sodium  chloride 
tends  to  prevent  jelly  formation,  i.e.,  larger  quantities  of  acid  and  sugar 
are  required  when  sodium  chloride  is  added.  Spencer  has  reported  that  on 
the  alkaline  side  sodium  chloride  tends  to  precipitate  the  pectin.  Spencer 
has  also  reported  that,  with  the  same  anion,  chlorine,  the  precipitating  effect 
of  the  cation  increased  with  increasing  valence,  or  Al  >  Ca  >  Na.  With 


164  JELLY 

the  same  cation  but  different  anions  Spencer  gives  the  order  of  absorption 
of  the  negative  ion  by  pectin  as  acetate  >  citrate  >  tartrate.  This  means 
that  the  tartrate  is  not  so  strongly  adsorbed  as  the  citrate  or  acetate  ions, 
hence  has  less  stabilizing  effect  and  is  more  easily  precipitated  by  sugar. 
The  chloride  anion  is  more  strongly  absorbed  than  the  nitrate  or  sulfate 
ions. 

Salts  buffer  a  fruit  juice  so  that  more  acid  is  required  to  give  a  definite 
pH  when  salts  are  present.  But  the  hydrogen  ion  is  not  the  only  positive 
ion  in  the  fruit  juice.  Myers  and  Baker  have  found  that  the  cation  of  the 
salt  may  supplement  the  hydrogen  ion,  but  only  at  definite  hydrogen-ion 
concentrations.  No  jelly  was  formed  with  added  salts  above  pK  3.6.  Thus 
jellies  from  fruit  juices  may  have  a  slightly  wider  range  of  hydrogen-ion 
concentration  for  jelly  formation  than  those  from  pure  water,  acid,  pectin, 
and  sugar.  Myers  and  Baker  used  sulfuric,  tartaric,  and  citric  acids  and 
the  sodium  salts  of  these  acids  in  their  investigations. 

The  negatively  charged  ion  of  a  salt  tends  to  stabilize  pectin  sols,  but 
those  anions  absorbed  most  strongly  exert  the  most  stabilizing  effect.  These 
negatively  charged  anions  may  be  neutralized  by  the  positively  charged  ion 
of  a  salt,  but  the  adsorption  of  cations  also  varies,  so  that  some  have  a 
greater  destabilizing  effect  than  others.  Since  all  pectins  contain  salts,  the 
quantitative  recipes  worked  out  for  one  pectin  may  not  give  exactly  the 
same  results  with  other  pectins  because  of  a  different  salt  content. 

The  Role  of  Sugar  in  Jelly  Formation 

Sugar,  if  its  concentration  and  that  of  acid  and  pectin  is  sufficient,  pre- 
cipitates the  pectin.  Spencer  explains  this  precipitation  as  follows.  When  a 
pectin  sol  is  formed,  *'an  equilibrium  is  reached  between  the  partial  pressure 
of  the  adsorbed  water"  of  the  pectin  *'and  that  in  the  dispersing  medium." 
When  sugar  is  added  to  the  pectin  sol,  this  equilibrium  is  disturbed,  for 
when  the  sugar  dissolves  in  the  dispersion  medium  it  lowers  the  vapor 
pressure  of  the  dispersing  medium.  As  a  result  the  pectin  particles  lose 
water  and  are  less  stable.  Increases  in  sugar  accelerate  the  setting  of  the 
jelly,  probably  because  of  increased  dehydration,  although  rate  of  setting 
is  also  modified  by  other  factors. 

Jelly  without  added  sugar.  Jelly  can  be  made  by  boiling  down  some 
fruit  juices  until  they  yield  a  ''jelly  test."  The  concentration  of  2  cups  of 
gooseberry  juice  yields  less  than  ^  cup  of  gummy,  tough,  sticky  jelly.  If 
left  with  the  lid  off  for  a  few  days  it  becomes  dry  enough  to  handle.  It 
is  very  dark  in  color,  looking  and  feeling  very  much  like  licorice  candy. 
The  fruit  flavor  is  present,  although  scarcely  noticeable  at  first,  because  of 
the  extremely  acid  taste. 

When  to  add  sugar  in  jelly  making.  As  previously  stated,  Tarr 
has  found  that  the  jellying  strength  of  the  pectin  is  lessened  if  boiled 
before  the  addition  of  sugar.  Yet,  if  the  sugar  is  added  to  the  pectin  and 


PROPORTION  OF  SUGAR  AND  JELLY  YIELD        165 

acid  prior  to  boiling,  the  jelly  strength  is  not  decreased  even  when  boiled 
as  long  as  42.8  minutes.  Directions  for  making  jelly  often  state  to  boil 
the  juice  for  a  certain  number  of  minutes  before  the  sugar  is  added.  From 
Tarr's  results  it  would  seem  a  much  better  practise  to  add  the  sugar  to 
the  juice  and  concentrate  it  after  the  sugar  is  added.  Long  boiling  of  the 
sugar  and  fruit  juice  produces  a  darker-colored  jelly,  the  extent  of  the 
darkening  depending  upon  the  juice  and  the  length  of  time  of  boiling.  With 
dark  fruit  juices  this  is  not  desirable,  but  it  may  improve  the  appearance 
of  light-colored  ones.  To  prevent  darkening  after  the  sugar  is  added,  the 
jelly  can  be  made  in  small  lots  so  that  boiling  to  the  desired  concentration 
can  be  accomplished  quickly.  In  extracting  the  fruit  juice  too  much  water 
should  not  be  added,  as  a  large  quantity  of  water  only  dilutes  the  pectin, 
and  then  boiling  is  required  to  concentrate  it. 

Concentration  o£  sugar  in  finished  jell.  Jelly  can  be  made  with  a 
wide  range  or  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice,  from  about  40  to  70  per  cent 
in  the  finished  jell.  From  the  reports  in  the  literature,  the  average  per- 
centage of  sugar  in  commercial  jelly,  unless  acidity  or  pectin  is  abnormally 
high,  varies  from  60  to  65  per  cent.  The  concentration  of  sugar  desirable 
in  the  finished  jelly  varies  somewhat  with  the  juice  from  which  the  jelly 
is  made.  Thus  gooseberry  juice,  which  usually  has  a  pH  2.6  to  2.8  and  also 
has  a  high  pectin  content,  is  usually  of  better  texture  if  the  final  concen- 
tration of  sugar  is  short  of  or  about  60  per  cent.  Cox  states  that  for  cran- 
berry sauce  too  stiff  a  jelly  can  be  prevented  by  stopping  the  boiling  process 
when  the  sugar  concentration  is  somewhat  below  60  per  cent.  Cox  states 
that  premature  gelation  can  be  brought  about  by  too  much  pectin,  acid,  or 
sugar,  or  all  three.  For  some  fruit  juices  Tarr  and  Baker  have  found 
that  70  per  cent  of  sugar  in  the  finished  product  gives  a  jelly  of  good  tex- 
ture. With  higher  concentrations  than  75  per  cent  the  sugar  may  crystallize 
from  the  jelly. 

Proportion  of  sugar  and  jelly  yield  in  illustrations.  In  general, 
other  factors  remaining  constant,  the  yield  of  jelly  parallels  the  amount  of 
sugar  added.  The  gooseberry  juice  for  the  jellies  in  the  illustrations  is  from 
the  same  source,  so  that  the  pectin  content  and  viscosity  of  the  juice  were 
the  same.  The  percentage  of  sugar  in  the  finished  jell  is  about  60,  since  all 
were  boiled  to  103°C.  In  Experiment  24  the  yield  of"  jelly  parallels  the 
sugar  added.  See  Figs.  15  and  16.  The  firmness  of  the  different  jellies 
varies.  The  2  cups  of  juice  boiled  down  yield  less  than  ^  cup  of  jelly.  It 
is  very  firm,  hard,  and  difficult  to  pull  apart.  The  percentage  of  sugar  in 
it  is  not  known,  but  both  the  pectin  and  acid  have  been  enormously  concen- 
trated. With  }i  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice  the  yield  is  a  little  more 
than  34  cup  of  jelly.  This  jelly  is  very  firm,  solid,  and  hard.  With  ^  cup 
of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice  the  yield  is  a  little  more  than  ^  cup  of  jelly. 
This  jelly  is  a  little  more  tender  than  the  one  with  %  cup  of  sugar  but 
produces  a  jelly  that  is  still  too  firm.  It  should  be  remembered  that  whereas 
each  cup  of  juice  had  the  same  concentration  of  acid  and  pectin  before  the 


166 


JELLY 


sugar  was  added,  the  addition  of  varying  amounts  of  sugar  and  boiling  to 
103°C.  gives  a  concentration  of  practically  60  per  cent  of  sugar  in  all  the 
jellies.  But  the  boiling  to  produce  a  concentration  of  60  per  cent  of  sugar 
thereby  concentrates  the  pectin  and  acid,  the  concentration  being  greater 
per  unit  of  w^eight  in  the  jelly  to  which  the  smallest  proportion  of  sugar 
was  added.  That  the  acid  is  concentrated  is  shown  bv  the  flavor,  for  the 


Fig.   15. — The  yield  of  jelly  obtained  when  the   proportion  of  sugar  to  juice   is 
varied.  Experiment  24. 

1.  Jelly  made  from  two  cups  of  juice  without  added  sugar. 

2.  A  cup  of  juice  and   %.  cup  of  sugar. 
A  cup  of  juice  and  Yz  cup  of  sugar. 


A  cup  of  juice  and  ^  cup  of  sugar. 
A  cup  of  juice  and   1  cup  of  sugar. 
A  cup  of  juice  and   1^   cups  of  sugar. 


3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7.  A  cup  of  juice  and   IJ/2  cups  of  sugar. 

jelly  from  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  juice  is  very  tart,  the  tartness 
progressively  decreasing  as  larger  proportions  of  sugar  are  added.  This  is 
true  of  the  first  extraction  of  most  fruit  juices.  As  the  proportion  of  sugar 
is  increased,  the  yield  of  jelly  is  increased.  There  is  a  proportion  of  sugar 
that  produces  the  best  jelly  for  the  particular  juice  used.  With  increasing 
amounts  of  sugar  beyond  the  proportion  that  yields  an  optimum  jelly,  the 


Fig.  16. — Showing  consistency  and  yield  of  jelly  from  Fig.  15.  Jelly  made  from 
first   extraction   of  gooseberry  juice. 

jelly  becomes  softer   until   a   proportion   of   sugar   is   finally   reached   that 
results  in  a  fluid  sirup  instead  of  a  jell. 

Proportion  of  sugar  for  home-made  jell.  The  proportion  of  sugar 
to  add  to  the  juice  cannot  be  given  definitely  for  the  best  texture  of 
jelly,  since  it  varies  with  the  pectin,  acid,  and  salt  content  of  the  juice.  The 
amount  of  pectin  varies  with   the  ripeness  of  the   fruit,   the   quantity  of 


SUGAR,  PECTIN,  ACID,  AND  SALT  167 

water  added  for  extracting  the  juice,  and  with  the  kind  of  fruit.  Gold- 
thwaite  states  that  it  is  better  to  use  too  little  sugar  than  too  much  with 
fruit  juices.  She  has  found  with  all  kinds  of  fruit  juices  and  average 
methods  of  extraction  that  ^  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  fruit  juice  usually 
gives  better  results  than  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice.  The  author's 
laboratory  and  home  results  agree  with  those  of  Goldthwaite  that  ^ 
cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice  gives  a  better  jelly  for  most  fruit  juices. 
Currants  if  not  very  ripe  need  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice,  but  if  a 
larger  quantity  of  water  is  added  for  extraction  a  smaller  proportion  of 
sugar  is  needed.  The  pectin  content  of  gooseberry  juice  is  usually  quite 
high,  one  reason  being  that  they  are  nearly  always  picked  while  green.  If 
the  rule  of  adding  water  to  barely  cover  is  used,  the  gooseberry  juice  will 
often  require  1^  cups  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice  to  give  jelly  of  the  best 
texture. 


Fig.  17. — The  jelly  from  the  second  extraction  of  gooseberry  juice  is  softer  than 
the  jelly  from  the  first  extraction  with  corresponding  amounts  of  sugar. 

1.  A  cup  of  juice  and  %.  cup  of  sugar. 

2.  A  cup  of  juice  and  Y2  cup  of  sugar. 

3.  A  cup  of  juice  and  ^  cup  of  sugar. 

4.  A  cup  of  juice  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 

5.  A  cup  of  juice  and  1J4  cups  of  sugar. 

Some  idea  of  the  amount  of  sugar  to  use  can  be  obtained  from  the 
alcohol  test.  With  gooseberry  juice  and  using  the  larger  quantity  of 
alcohol  for  the  test,  the  approximate  proportion  of  sugar  required  for  a 
cup  of  juice  can  be  estimated  from  the  character  of  the  precipitated  pectin. 
After  mixing,  turn  the  pectin  and  alcohol  out  in  a  dish.  If  the  pectin 
precipitate  can  be  picked  up  in  one  piece  without  breaking  and  feels  firm, 
about  \%.  to  1  1/3  cups  of  sugar  will  be  required;  if  the  pectin  precipitate 
can  be  picked  up  in  one  piece  without  breaking  but  does  not  feel  firm, 
about  1  to  1^  cups  of  sugar  will  be  necessary;  but  if  the  precipitate  breaks 
into  two  pieces  when  picked  up,  about  ^  to  J^  cup  of  sugar  is  required. 
If  the  precipitate  is  flocculent  the  juice  needs  concentrating  or  only  ^2  cup 
or  less  of  sugar  can  be  used.  A  still  easier  way  to  determine  the  best  pro- 
portion of  sugar  to  add  is  to  determine  the  viscosity  with  a  jellmeter. 

Sugar,  pectin,  acid,  and  salt.  As  can  be  ascertained  from  the  previous 
discussion  there  is  a  relation  between  proportion  of  pectin,  sugar,  acid, 
and  salts,  temperature  to  which  the  pectin  is  heated,  and  time  of  pouring. 
Increases  and  decreases  of  constituents  may  be  made  within  certain  limits. 
Salts  in  the  fruit  juice  or  added  to  it  may  aid  jelly  formation  or  hinder 


168 


JELLY 


and  delay  it,  according  to  whether  they  tend  to  precipitate  or  stabilize  the 
pectin. 

Inversion  of  sugar  in  jelly  making.  The  saturation  point  of  a 
sucrose  solution  at  room  temperature  or  20°C.  is  67  per  cent.  Thus 
jellies  containing  more  than  67  per  cent  of  sucrose  at  20°C.  are  super- 
saturated, unless  something  has  occurred  to  the  sugar.  The  pectin  tends  to 
keep  the  sugar  from  crystallizing  from  solution,  acting  as  a  protective 
colloid.  But  even  this  protective  action  would  not  always  be  great  enough 
to  keep  the  sugar  from  crystallizing  wdth  a  concentration  of  sugar  that 
is  increased  to  70  per  cent  or  over.  When  sucrose  is  heated  with  acid,  some 
of  the  sucrose  is  inverted  to  dextrose  and  levulose.  The  amount  of  inverted 
sugar  formed  during  jelly  making  depends  upon  the  acidity  of  the  fruit 
juice  and  the  length  of  time  of  boiling  with  the  sugar.  Since  there  are 
three  sugars  in  the  finished  jelly  the  percentage  or  total  sugar  that  can  be 
held  in  the  finished  jelly  without  crystallization  occurring  is  increased. 
Tarr  and  Baker  report  that  in  a  solution  containing  a  mixture  of  sucrose, 
dextrose,  and  levulose,  the  total  maximum  solubility  is  obtained  with  the 
proportions  of  each  sugar  show^n  in  Table  23  (obtained  from  Bureau  of 
Standards). 

At  20°C.  if  inversion  has  occurred  to  obtain  maximum  solubility,  about 
75.7  per  cent  of  sugar  is  soluble.  Thus  jelly  containing  about  70  per  cent 
of  sugar  is  not  necessarily  supersaturated.  The  salts  and  organic  con- 
stituents of  the  fruit  juice  may  also  increase  the  solubility  of  the  sugar 
in  a  given  solution. 

Rate  of  inversion  in  different  fruit  juices.  Tarr  and  Baker  have 
determined  the  rate  of  inversion  of  sucrose  during  jelly  making  with 
equivalent  solutions   of  sulfuric,   tartaric,   and   citric   acids.   As  would   be 

TABLE  23 

Total  Maximum  Solubility  with  Cane  Sugar  and  Invert  Sugar 

{Tarr  and  Baker) 


Temperature, 
°C. 

Grams  of  cane  sugar 

per  100  grams 

solution 

Grams  of  invert 
sugar  per  100 
grams  solution 

Grams  of  water 

per  100  grams 

solution 

20 
25 
30 

37.1 
35.7 
33.4 

38.6 
41.4 
45.6 

24.3 
22.9 
21.0 

expected,  they  found  the  inversion  was  greater  with  the  stronger  or  more 
highly  ionized  acid.  Longer  heating  with  a  given  hydrogen-ion  concen- 
tration also  increased  the  amount  of  inversion. 

Tolman,  Munson,  and  Bisrelow  in  1901  obtained  results,  which  we  are 


DEXTROSE  169 

now  able  to  interpret  on  the  basis  of  our  present  knowledge,  on  the  inver- 
sion of  sucrose  by  juices  of  different  fruits.  Their  work  was  published 
before  hydrogen-ion  concentration  was  thought  of  in  connection  with  jelly 
making.  After  determining  the  amount  of  invert  sugar  in  a  series  of  jellies 
and  jams  that  they  had  made,  they  concluded  that  the  inversion  of  the 
sucrose  varies  with  the  total  amount  of  free  organic  acid  present  and  the 
length  of  time  the  product  is  heated.  But  they  found  some  exceptions  to 
their  conclusions.  Crab-apple  jelly  with  0.17  per  cent  acid  (as  sulfuric) 
gave  an  inversion  of  58.8  per  cent  of  the  sucrose,  whereas  orange  jelly  of 
the  same  acidity  gave  only  4.9  per  cent  of  sucrose  inverted.  Since  the 
inversion  is  in  proportion  to  the  hydrogen-ion  concentration  if  time  of 
heating  is  constant,  the  greatest  inversion  occurred  with  the  acid  giving 
the  highest  hydrogen-ion  concentration,  the  tartaric  acid  of  the  grape. 
In  this  instance  the  total  acidity  was  higher  too.  Plum  with  a  high  total 
acidity  of  1.35  per  cent  yielded  a  lower  percentage  inverted  than  the  grape 
with  a  total  acidity  of  0.69  per  cent.  The  plum  contains  malic  acid,  which 
would  result  in  a  lower  hydrogen-ion  concentration  than  the  tartaric. 

Kinds  of  Sugar  Used  in  Jelly 

Most  jelly  is  made  with  sucrose.  There  are  two  sources  of  sucrose :  one, 
the  sugar  beet ;  the  other,  sugar  cane. 

Cane  or  beet  sugar.  For  some  unexplained  reason  many  persons  believe 
that  jelly  cannot  be  made  from  beet  sugar.  Shaw  in  a  series  of  over  2000 
tests  found  no  difference  in  the  two  sugars.  Lowe  and  Redfield,  working 
in  a  section  of  the  country  where  many  persons  believe  that  beet  sugar 
will  not  make  jelly,  could  detect  no  differences  in  jellies  made  from  beet 
and  cane  sugar.  The  sugar  was  sent  from  different  sections  of  the  state. 
In  these  experiments  the  source  and  kind  of  sugar  were  not  known  until 
the  experiments  were  finished. 

Dextrose.  Crystalline  dextrose  when  substituted  by  weight  for  sucrose 
in  a  fruit  juice  yields  a  jelly  similar  in  texture  to  that  obtained  with 
sucrose.  It  is  not  so  sweet  as  the  jelly  made  with  sucrose.  In  the  jelly 
made  with  dextrose,  crystallization  of  the  sugar  occurs.  Crystals  usually 
begin  to  form  at  the  top  of  the  surface  of  the  jelly  in  24  hours.  They 
increase  until  the  whole  mass  is  crystallized.  The  shape  of  the  masses  of 
cr5^stals  resembles  coral  formation  or  reminds  one  of  the  flowerets  of 
cauliflower  except  that  they  are  colored.  See  Fig.  18.  If  the  glass  is  full  of 
jelly  the  crystals  push  up  the  top  of  the  lid  and  bulge  out  over  the  side. 
Sometimes  the  first  crystals  appear  in  spots  throughout  the  jelly  instead  of 
on  the  surface.  Sometimes  the  first  crystals  are  longer  than  24  hours  in 
appearing.  If  the  jelly  is  turned  out  of  the  glass,  crystallization  occurs 
rapidly  and  the  whole  mass  is  usually  crystallized  in  48  hours  or  less.  If 
dextrose  is  substituted  for  50  per  cent  of  sucrose,  crystallization  may  not 
occur,  and  if  crystals  do  appear  they  are  slower  in  forming.  About  50  per 


170  JELLY 

cent  of  the  jellies  made  in  the  author's  laboratory  with  one-half  sucrose 
and  one-half  dextrose  crystallized. 

Levulose.  Levulose  also  forms  jelly,  but  it  is  more  likely  to  be  sirupy, 
and  if  a  jelly  is  formed  the  sirup  must  be  boiled  to  107°C.,  which  brings 
the  levulose  nearer  to  its  saturation  point. 

Maltose.  Maltose  has  been  used  by  the  author  for  gooseberry  and  cur- 
rant jelly.   Maltose  is  considerably  less  soluble  than  sucrose  and   a  little 


Fig.  18. — Jelly  made  from  crystalline  dextrose.  Showing  crystal  formation  48 
hours  after  the  jelly  had  been  turned  out  of  the  glass  and  72  hours  after  the  jelly 
was  made. 

less  soluble  than  dextrose  at  room  temperatures.  The  jelly  made  with 
maltose  is  very  tart  and  crystallizes  as  readily,  or  more  so,  as  jelly  made 
with  dextrose. 

Syneresis 

Syneresis  occurs  in  some  fruit  jellies.  It  is  probably  more  common  in 
cranberry  jelly  than  in  other  fruit  jellies.  Tarr  found  that,  with  a  hydro- 
gen-ion concentration  greater  than  pH  3.1,  fluid  exuded  from  the  jelly. 
Myers  and  Baker  have  reported  that  syneresis  in  jellies  may  be  brought 
about  by  the  hydrogen  ion  alone,  or  by  the  hydrogen  ion  and  cation  of 
an  added  salt  together,  but  not  by  the  cation  of  the  salt  alone.  They 
have  also  reported  that  the  anion  of  a  salt  by  acting  as  a  buffering  agent 
may  prevent  syneresis. 

Whether  syneresis  occurs  in  a  jelly  also  depends  on  the  source  of  the 
pectin.  The  writer  has  never  seen  syneresis  occur  with  gooseberry  jelly, 
even  when  the  />H  of  the  jelly  is  2.6  or  lower.  Some  citrus  pectins  made 
into  jelly  show  no  syneresis  at  />H  2.0  or  lower. 


STORAGE  OF  JELLY  171 

The  rate  of  dehydration  or  setting  and  mechanical  disturbance  alter  the 
jelly  starts  to  set  may  also  influence  syneresis. 

Temperature  for  Boiling  Sirup  for  Jelly 

If  the  boiling  point  of  sugar  solutions  is  referred  to,  p.  49,  it  is  found 
that  a  sugar  solution  containing  60  per  cent  of  sugar  boils  at  103.0°C., 
and  a  70  per  cent  solution  boils  at  106.5°C.  A  jelly  boiled  to  103°C. 
would  contain  approximately  60  per  cent  of  sugar,  and  one  boiled  to 
106.5°C.  would  contain  approximately  70  per  cent  of  sugar.  Evidently,  a 
jelly  cooked  to  a  temperature  between  these  two  temperatures  would  con- 
tain between  60  and  70  per  cent  of  sugar. 

Cruess  and  McNair  have  reported  that  jellies  containing  amounts  of 
sugar  indicated  by  boiling  to  65°  Brix  give  a  good  concentration  for  jelly. 
A  solution  of  sugar  of  65°  Brix  boils  at  sea  level  at  103.9°C.  Cruess  and 
McNair  state  that  if,  to  the  boiling  point  of  water  of  any  locality,  3.9°C. 
or  7.02°F.  is  added,  a  suitable  boiling  point  for  jelly  will  be  obtained 
for  that  locality. 

The  directions  in  the  laboratory  outline  state  to  boil  the  sirup  to  a 
temperature  of  103°C.  for  jelly.  This  is  for  a  location  where  the  water 
boils  at  99°C.  This  is  sufficient  for  fruit  juices  that  contain  a  high  per- 
centage of  pectin  and  have  a  high  acidity.  This  would  give  approximately 
60  per  cent  of  sugar  in  the  finished  jelly.  Some  juices  with  a  low  acidity 
and  pectin  content  will  yield  better  jelly  if  boiled  to  a  higher  temperature 
than  103°C.  A  temperature  between  104°  and  105°C.  yields  a  jelly  with 
a  sugar  content  of  about  65  per  cent.  If  they  do  not  jell  with  a  tempera- 
ture of  105°  to  106°C.  the  juice  does  not  contain  sufficient  pectin  or  acid. 

Jelly  test.  The  method  of  housekeepers  of  determining  when  jelly  is 
boiled  sufficiently  is  to  let  a  portion  of  the  sirup  drop  from  a  spoon. 
When  the  sirup  "sheets"  o£E  the  spoon  the  jellying  temperature  has  been 
reached. 

Storage  of  Jelly 

Jelly  deteriorates  in  flavor  on  standing.  Freshly  made  jelly  has  a  better 
flavor  and  aroma  than  jelly  that  has  been  made  and  stored  for  some  time. 
The  cooking  causes  some  decomposition  of  flavoring  products.  In  stand- 
ing, some  of  the  aromatic  substances  and  flavoring  substances  are  volatil- 
ized and  some  are  probably  lost  by  decomposition. 

Storage,  mold,  and  sugar  concentration.  With  too  high  a  percent- 
age of  sugar,  crystallization  of  the  sugar  may  occur.  With  too  low  a  concen- 
tration, the  jelly  will  mold  more  readily.  It  will  also  ferment  more  readily 
than  a  jelly  with  a  higher  concentration  of  sugar.  Singh  has  reported  that 
jellies  made  with  less  than  65  per  cent  of  sugar  molded  unless  the  jelly 
containers  were  sterilized. 


172  JELLY 

Sterilization  of  the  glasses,  and  having  them  dry  and  hot  when  the 
jelly  is  added,  probably  aid  in  preventing  mold  and  also  fermentation. 
Running  melted  paraffin  over  the  top  of  the  jelly  so  that  it  forms  a  com- 
plete seal  is  an  aid  in  keeping  it. 

Definition  o£  Jelly 

This  chapter  would  be  incomplete  without  giving  Goldthwaite's  defini- 
tion of  an  ideal  jelly.  "Ideal  fruit-jelly  is  a  beautifully  colored,  transparent, 
palatable  product  obtained  by  so  treating  fruit-juice  that  the  resulting  mass 
will  quiver,  not  flow,  when  removed  from  its  mold ;  a  product  with  texture 
so  tender  that  it  cuts  easily  with  a  spoon,  and  yet  so  firm  that  the  angles 
thus  produced  retain  their  shape ;  a  clear  product  that  is  neither  sirupy, 
gummy,  sticky,  nor  tough;  neither  is  it  brittle  and  yet  it  will  break,  and 
does  this  with  distinct  beautiful  cleavage  which  leaves  sparkling  character- 
istic faces.  This  is  that  delicious,  appetizing  substance,  a  good  fruit-jelly." 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Ahmann,  C.  F.,  and  Hooker,  H.  D.     The  Estimation  of  Pectin  and   a  Study  of  the 

Constitution  of  Pectin.     Mo.  Agri.  Expt.   Sta.  Research   Bull.   77.      (1925). 
Askew,   H.  O.     Changes   in  the   Chemical   Composition  of   Developing  Apples.     J. 

of  Ponology  and  Hort.  Sci.  8:  232    (1935). 
Baker,  G.  L.     A  New  Method  for  Determining  the  Jellying  Power  of  Fruit-Juice 

Extractives.     Food  Ind.  6:  305    (1934). 
Campbell,  C.  H.     Jelly.  Ind.  Eng.  Chem.   12:  558.      (1920).     Also  in  Am.  Food  J. 

15:24.     (1920). 
Carre,  M.  H.,  and  Haynes,  D.     The  Estimation  of  Pectin  as  Calcium  Pectate  and 

the  Application  of  this  Method  to  the   Determination  of  the  Soluble  Pectin  in 

Apples.     Biochem.  J.    16:   60.      (1922). 
Chernoff,  L.  H.     Pectin,  Jelly-Making  and  Sugar.     Am.  Food  J.  18:  200.      (1923). 
Conrad,   C.   M.     A   Furfural-Yielding   Substance   as   a   Splitting   Product   of   Proto- 

pectin   During  Ripening  of  Fruits.     Plant  Physiology  5:  93.      (1930). 
Cox,  R.   E.     Cranberry  Jelly.     Food   Ind.   5:   348    (1933). 
Cruess,    W.    V.,    and    McNair,   J.    B.      Jelly    Investigations.      Ind.    Eng.    Chem.    8: 

417   (1916). 
Denton,    M.    C,    Johnson,    R.,    and    Yeatman,    F.    W.      Homemade    Apple    Citrus 

Pectin  Extracts  and  Their  Use  in  Jelly  Making.     U.   S.  Dept.  Agri.,   Circular 

254  (1923). 
Dore,  W.  H.     The  Pectic  Substances.     J.   Chem.   Ed.   3:   505    (1926). 
Dore,    W.    H.      Recent    Progress   in    the    Chemistry    of    Pectin    and    Its    Industrial 

Application.     Ind.  Eng.   Chem.   16:   1042    (1924). 
Dore,   W.   H.     Definitions  Written   by  the    Committee   on    Nomenclature    of  Pectin 

of   the   Agricultural   Food    Division.      Proc.    Am.    Chem.    Soc.    49:    37    (1927); 

J.  Am.   Chem.   Soc.  49    (1927). 
Fellenberg,  T.  H.  von.     Uber  die  Konstitution  der  Pektinkcirper.     Biochem.  Zeitsch. 

85:  118    (1918). 
Goldthwaite,   N.  E.     Contribution  on  the   Chemistry  and   Physics  of  Jelly-Making. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  1:  333    (1909). 
Goldthwaite,  N.  E.    Contribution  on  Jelly-Making.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  2:  457   (1910). 
Goldthwaite,  N.  E.     Principles  of  Making  Fruit-Jellies.     Colorado  Agri.  Expt.  Sta., 

Fort  Collins,  Colo.  Bull.  298    (1925). 


REFERENCES  173 

Haller,  M.  H.  Changes  in  the  Pectic  Constituents  of  Apples  in  Relation  to  Sof- 
tening.   J.  Agri.  Research  39:  739   (1929). 

Halliday,  E.  G.,  and  Bailey,  G.  R.  Effect  of  Calcium  Chloride  on  Acid-Sugar- 
Pectin  Gels.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  16:  595  (1924). 

Jameson,  E.  Requirements  of  Pectin  for  the  Commercial  Jelly  Maker.  Ind.  Eng. 
Chem.  17:  1291   (1925). 

Johnston,  R.,  and  Denton,  M.  C.  The  Relation  of  Alcohol  Precipitate  to  Jelly- 
ing Power  of  Citrus  Pectin  Extracts.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  15:  778   (1923). 

Lowe,  B.,  and  Redfield,  G.  M.  Iowa  Grown  Beet  Sugar  Equals  Any  Sugar. 
Iowa  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Bull.   135    (1926). 

Myers,  P.  B.,  and  Baker,  G.  L.  Fruit  Jellies.  IV.  The  Role  of  Salts.  Univ. 
of  Del.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Bull.   144.     Technical   Bull.   No.   7    (1926). 

Myers,  P.  B.,  and  Baker,  G.  L.  Fruit  Jellies.  V.  The  Role  of  Pectin.  I.  The 
Viscosity  and  Jellying  Properties  of  Pectin  Solution.  Univ.  of  Del.  Agri. 
Expt.  Sta.,  Bull.  149.     Technical   Bull.   No.  8    (1927). 

Norris,  F.  W.,  and  Schryver,  S.  B.  The  Pectic  Substances  of  Plants.  III.  The 
Nature  of  Pectinogen  and  Its  Relation  to  Pectic  Acid.  Biochem.  J.  19:  676 
(1925). 

Olsen,  A.  G.     Pectin  Studies.     I.     Citrus  Pectin.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  25:  699   (1933). 

Olsen,  A.  G.  Pectin  Studies.  III.  General  Theory  of  Pectin  Jelly  Formation. 
J.  Physical  Chem.  38:  919   (1934). 

Rooker,  W.  A.  Fruit  Pectin.  Its  Commercial  Manufacture  and  Uses.  Avi  Pub- 
lishing Co.,  N.  Y.  (1928). 

Schryver,  S.  B.,  and  Haynes,  D.  The  Pectic  Substances  of  Plants.  Biochem. 
J.  10:  539    (1916). 

Shroger,  A.  W.  The  Chemistry  of  Cellulose  and  Wood.  McGraw-Hill  Co. 
(1926). 

Shaw,  G.  W.  Packing  Prunes  in  Cans.  Cane  Sugar  vs.  Beet  Sugar.  Cal.  Expt. 
Sta.,  Circular  33   (1907). 

Singh,  L.  A  Study  of  the  Relation  of  Pectin  and  Acidity  in  Jelly  Making.  Ind. 
Eng.  Chem.  14:710  (1922). 

Spencer,  G.  The  Formation  of  Pectin  Jellies  by  Sugar.  J.  Physical  Chem.  33: 
1987    (1929). 

Spencer,  G.  The  Effect  of  Salt  on  Sugar-Pectin  Jelly-Formation.  J.  Physical 
Chem.  33:  2012    (1929). 

Spencer,  G.  The  Relation  between  Acids  and  Pectin  in  Jelly  Formation.  J. 
Physical  Chem.   34:  410    (1930). 

Spencer,  G.  The  Purification  and  Estimation  of  Pectin.  J.  Physical  Chem.  34: 
429    (1930). 

Spencer,  G.  The  Manipulation  of  Jelly  Strength-Testing  Apparatus.  J.  Physical 
Chem.  34:  654  (1930). 

Sucharipa,  R.  Experimental  Data  on  Pectin-Sugar-Acid  Gels.  J.  Assoc.  Of- 
ficial Agri.  Chem.   7:  57    (1923). 

Tarr,  L.  W.  Fruit  Jellies.  The  Role  of  Acids.  Univ.  of  Del.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta., 
Bull.  134,  Technical  Bull.  No.  2.    (1923). 

Tarr,  L.  W.,  and  Baker,  G.  L.  Fruit  Jellies.  II.  The  Role  of  Sugar.  Univ.  Del. 
Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Bull.  136,  Technical  Bull.  No.  3    (1926). 

Tarr,  L.  W.  Fruit  Jellies.  III.  Jelly  Strength  Measurements.  Univ.  of  Del. 
Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Bull.  142,  Technical  Bull.  No.  5    (1926). 

Tarr,  L.  W.  Fruit  Jellies.  Chapter  26,  Colloidal  Behavior.  Edited  by  Bogue, 
McGraw-Hill  Co.    (1924). 

Tarr,  L.  W.  Fundamentals  of  Fruit  Jelly  Formation.  Canning  Age  5:  684 
(1924). 


174  JELLY 

Tolman,  L.  M.,   Munson,  L.  S.,   and  Bigelow,  W,   D.     The  Composition  of  Jellies 

and  Jams.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  23:  347    (1901). 
Wilson,  C.  P.    The  Manufacture  of  Pectin.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  17:  1065    (1925). 

JELLY 

Directions  for  preparing  fruit  for  jelly.  Apples  and  crab-apples  are 
washed  but  not  pared.  Remove  bad  spots  and  wormy  places  but  retain 
the  seeds  and  core,  as  they  contain  pectic  substances.  Cut  in  rather  small 
pieces  in  order  to  more  easily  extract  the  pectin.  Gooseberries  and  cur- 
rants are  washed  but  do  not  need  to  be  stemmed.  Add  sufficient  water 
to  cover  apples  and  crab-apples.  Green  gooseberries  can  be  covered  with 
water;  ripe  ones  should  be  only  partially  covered.  For  most  berries  about 
^  cup  of  water  to  a  pint  of  berries  is  sufficient,  or  else  the  pectin  of  the 
juice  will  not  be  sufficiently  concentrated.  Cranberries  may  be  used.  Rather 
ripe  cranberries  should  have  a  smaller  proportion  of  water  than  less  ripe 
ones.  Drain  the  juice  through  a  heavy  cloth  bag.  Save  the  pulp  for  a  second 
extraction.  Water-packed  canned  gooseberries  are  excellent  to  use,  as  they 
are  easily  obtained  at  any  time  of  the  year.  The  number  ten  size  is  more 
economical.  In  using  the  canned  gooseberries  the  juice  is  not  cooked  for 
the  first  extraction  but  drained  without  heating. 

Experiment  23. 

A.  To  determine  the  pectin  content  of  fruit  juice. 

To  45  or  60  cc.  of  alcohol  in  a  graduate  add  15  cc.  of  the  juice  to  be  tested. 
Invert  the  graduate  slowly  and  turn  back.  A  precipitate  in  a  mass  indicates 
enough  pectin  for  jelly.  Pour  out  in  a  dish  and  lift  the  pectin.  (See  p.  157.) 
If  a  quantitative  test  is  desired,  follow  some  standard  directions  for  pectin 
determinations. 

B.  Test  the  juice  with  a  jelmeter.  Add  sugar  and  cook  according  to  direc- 
tions furnished  wnth  the  jelmeter.  Compare  the  jellies  with  those  made  from 
the  same  juice  under  Experiment  24. 

Experiment  24. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice  in  making 
jelly. 

Use  a  first  extraction  of  juice.  Use  240  grams  of  juice  for  a  cup  and  200 
grams  of  sugar  per  cup.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  juice  and  boil  until  the  tempera- 
ture is  103°C.  Be  sure  that  the  temperature  reaches  103°C.  before  removing 
from  the  stove;  read  to  just  above  the  103  mark  on  the  thermometer  rather 
than  below  it.  Pour  into  hot,  dry,  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  Sterilize  by  boiling  in 
hot  water,  then  set  in  a  place  where  they  will  stay  hot  before  adding  the  jelly. 
With  more  than  }i  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  juice,  two  of  the  8-ounce  jelly 
glasses  will  be  needed  to  hold  the  jelly.  If  the  percentage  of  sugar  is  to  be 
determined  in  the  finished  jelly,  weigh  the  pan  and  spoon  before  the  juice 
is  added.  Weigh  the  pan,  spoon,  and  contents  on  a  balance  as  soon  as  the 
temperature  of  103°C.  has  been  reached,  then  pour  into  jelly  glasses.  Determine 


JELLY 


175 


the  approximate  yield  of  the  jelly  in  cups  by  filling  other  jelly  glasses  with 
water  to  the  same  height  as  the  jelly  and  then  measure  the  water.  This  elimi- 
nates pouring  the  jelly  into  measuring  cups  and  then  into  the  jelly  glasses. 

1.  Boil  2  cups  of  fruit  juice  without  the  addition  of  sugar  until  the  desired 
temperature  is  reached.  Does  it  give  the  spoon  jelly  test?  Obtain  the  volume, 
and  label  it,  and  set  aside  to  jell.  It  is  best  to  put  this  quantity  of  juice  in  a 
large  pan  so  that  it  may  boil  rapidly,  without  boiling  over.  When  the  juice 
is  concentrated  to  about  Yi  cup  it  may  be  transferred  to  a  smaller  pan,  as  the 
quantity  of  juice  at  the  end  of  the  experiment  is  so  small  that  it  is  difficult  to 
get  an  accurate  reading  with  the  thermometer. 

2.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  34  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  until  a  temperature  of 
103 °C.  is  reached.  Pour  into  jelly  glass.  Obtain  volume,  label  it,  and  set  aside 
to  jell. 

3.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  Yi  cup  of  sugar.  Follow  directions  under  2. 

4.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  Y^  cup  of  sugar.  Follow  directions  under  2. 

5.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Proceed  as  in  2. 

6.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  \Ya  cups  of  sugar.  Proceed  as  in  2. 

7.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  1>4  cups  of  sugar.  Proceed  as  in  2.  Omit  7  if  the 
alcohol  test  was  not  exceptionally  rich  in  pectin. 


Temperature 
Cooked  to 


Yield, 
cups 


Per  cent  of  sugar 
in  finished  jell 


Color 


Texture 


Fh 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Experiment  25. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  jelly  when  the  juice  is  not  as 
rich  in  pectin  as  in  Experiment  24. 

To  the  fruit  pulp  left  from  the  first  extraction  of  the  juice,  add  water  to 
barely  cover  and  heat  for  a  few  minutes.  Drain  through  a  heavy  cloth.  What- 
ever the  percentage  of  pectin  in  the  juice  in  Experiment  24,  there  will  be  less 
pectin  in  the  second  extraction.  Repeat  directions  under  24,  2. 

1.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  Ya  cup  of  sugar. 

2.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  Y^  cup  of  sugar. 

3.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  Ya  cup  of  sugar. 

4.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  1  cup  of  sugar. 

5.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  \Ya  cups  of  sugar. 

Compare  the  resulting  jellies  with  those  of  Experiment  24. 


Temperature 
Cooked  to 


Yield, 
cups 


Per  cent  of  sugar 
in  finished  jell 


Color 


Texture 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 


176 


JELLY 


Experiment  26. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  boiling  the  jelly  to  a  greater  concentration. 

Use  juice  from  the  first  extraction.  Compare  the  texture,  volume,  and  per- 
centage of  sugar  in  the  finished  product  with  jelly  from  Experiment  24,  2, 
with  the  same  proportion  of  sugar. 

1.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  to  104.5°C.  Proceed  as  in 
Experiment  24,  2. 

2.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  to  106. 5°C.  Proceed  as  in 
Experiment  24,  2. 

3.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  to  104.5°C.  Proceed  as  in 
Experiment  24,  2. 

4.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  to  106. 5°C.  Proceed  as  in 
Experiment  24,  2. 


Temperature 
Cooked  to 


Yield, 
cups 


Per  cent  of  sugar 
in  finished  jell 


Col( 


Texti 


Fh 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  27. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  cooking  slowly  on  the  color  of  the  jelly. 

1.  To   1  cup  of  juice  add  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  to   103°C.   Cook  quickly. 
Proceed  as  in  Experiment  24,  2. 

2.  To   1   cup  of  juice  add  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  slowly  and  cook  until   a 
temperature  of  103°C.  Proceed  as  in  Experiment  24,  2. 


Yield 


Color 


Texture 


Flavor 


Results. 


Experiment  28. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  using  different  kinds  of  sugar  in  making  jelly. 

1.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  ^  cup  of  sucrose.  Cook  to  103°C.  Proceed  as  in 
Experiment  24,  2.  Use  as  a  control. 

2.  To   1   cup  of  juice   add    150  grams  of  crystalline   dextrose.  What  is   the 
measure  of  the  dextrose?  Cook  to  103°C.  Proceed  as  in  Experiment  24,  2. 

3.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  150  grams  of  levulose  sugar.  What  is  the  measure 
of  the  levulose?  Cook  to  103°C.  Does  it  jell? 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  cook  to  107°C. 

5.  To  1  cup  of  juice  add  150  grams  of  maltose.  Cook  to  103°C. 


JELLY 


177 


Temperature 
Cooked  to 


Yield, 
cups 


Per  cent  of  sugar 
in  finished  jell 


Color 


Texture 


Fh 


Results  and  conclusions. 

What  happens  to  the  jellies  in  Experiment  28  after  standing  a  few  days? 
If  crystals  appear,  how  long  does  it  take  for  them  to  form? 

When  the  juice  contains  a  smaller  proportion  of  pectin,  how  does  the  texture 
of  the  jell  compare  for  any  definite  proportion  of  sugar  with  that  of  jell  made 
of  a  juice  richer  in  pectin?  What  is  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  the  jelly  of 
cooking  the  sirup  to  a  higher  temperature  or  concentration?  Which  propor- 
tion of  sugar  in  Experiment  24  produces  the  best-textured  jelly?  Would  this 
proportion  hold  for  all  juices?  Why?  What  is  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  the 
jelly  when  the  proportion  of  sugar  used  is  too  small?  On  the  flavor?  What  is 
the  effect  on  the  texture  when  the  proportion  of  sugar  is  too  great?  On  the 
flavor? 

What  is  the  result  of  substituting  dextrose  or  levulose  for  sucrose  on  the 
texture  of  the  jelly?  On  the  flavor? 


k 


CHAPTER  VI 
GELATIN 

Gelatin  has  been  used  extensively  for  experimental  work  in  studying  the 
reactions  of  colloidal  substances,  particularly  in  connection  with  gel  forma- 
tion. 

Uses  of  gelatin  in  foods.  In  food  preparation  gelatin  is  used  as  a  basis 
to  make  a  flavored  gel  for  salads  and  desserts.  It  is  used  as  an  emulsi- 
fying agent,  to  form  a  basis  for  some  types  of  candy  like  marshmallows, 
and  it  is  used  in  frozen  desserts. 

Source  of  gelatin.  Gelatin  is  obtained  from  collagen  by  hydrolysis. 
Collagen  is  a  protein  and  is  found  in  connective  tissue,  tendons,  cartilage, 
in  the  organic  part  of  bone  tissue,  in  the  inner  layer  of  skin  of  animals, 
and  in  fish  skins,  scales,  and  ''sounds"  or  fish  bladders.  Collagen  is  not  found 
as  a  pure  substance  in  these  tissues,  but  in  combination  with  inorganic  ma- 
terials and  with  other  proteins  like  elastin,  mucin,  mucoid,  etc.  White  con- 
nective tissue  is  found  between  the  muscle  fibers,  in  tendons,  and  in  the 
inner  layers  of  skin.  It  contains  a  high  percentage  of  collagen.  The  jelly- 
ing of  meat  broth  after  cooling  is  due  to  the  gelatin,  which  has  been  formed 
from  the  collagen  of  the  connective  tissue.  Sometimes  the  concentration 
of  the  gelatin  in  the  broth  is  not  great  enough  to  bring  about  the  formation 
of  a  gel.  When  pieces  of  baked  fish  skins  are  allowed  to  cool  on  the  baking 
pan,  they  adhere  to  it  quite  tenaciously,  because  of  the  adhesive  quality 
of  the  gelatin  or  glue  formed  from  the  collagen  of  the  fish  skin. 

Distinction  between  Gelatin  and  Glue 

Commercially  there  is  little  distinction  between  gelatins  and  glues,  ex- 
cept that  edible  gelatin  is  a  high-grade  product  and  complies  with  the  Pure 
Food  Laws.  It  contains  only  traces  of  harmful  ingredients,  and  Bogue 
states  that  it  should  be  made  from  ''such  stock  and  by  such  sanitary 
methods,  as  not  to  be  objectionable  from  the  ethical  point  of  view."  Glue 
may  be  made  from  the  same  type  of  stock  as  the  gelatin,  but  usually  no 
effort  is  made  to  remove  impurities. 

Manufacture  of  gelatin.  In  making  edible  gelatin  the  stock  is  or 
should  be  selected  with  greater  care  than  for  inedible  gelatin  or  glue.  Some 
edible  gelatins  are  made  entirely  from  bones.  Others  are  made  from  calf- 
skin and  others  from  pork  skin.  The  bones  of  young  animals  contain  more 
collagen  than  bones  from  older  animals.  For  edible  gelatin  the  bones  are 

178 


ACIDS  179 

washed  to  free  them  from  dirt,  then  degreased  by  extraction  of  fat  by  fat 
solvents.  Next  the  soluble  lime  salts  are  removed  by  leaching  the  bones 
with  acid.  The  principal  salts  in  bone  are  the  calcium  phosphates,  but  some 
calcium  carbonate  and  magnesium  phosphate  are  also  found.  It  is  difficult 
to  free  the  bones  from  all  the  traces  of  inorganic  matter,  and  the  elec- 
trolytes left  influence  the  pH  of  the  resulting  gelatin.  The  degreased  bone 
with  the  inorganic  salts  removed  is  known  as  ossein  and  contains  the  col- 
lagen from  which  the  gelatin  is  made.  The  ossein  is  soaked  in  lime  water. 
In  the  lime  water  and  in  acid  solution  the  collagen  swells.  This  swelling 
makes  it  possible  to  hydrolyze  the  collagen  to  gelatin  at  lower  temperatures 
than  would  otherwise  be  possible.  This  is  important  in  the  manufacture  of 
gelatin,  for  with  higher  temperatures  or  long  heating  the  jellying  strength 
of  the  gelatin  is  lessened.  The  gelatin  is  then  dried.  The  gelatin  thus 
obtained  has  some  ash  and  is  not  at  the  isoelectric  point,  but  on  either  the 
acid  or  alkaline  side  of  the  isoelectric  point.  Putrefaction  by  bacteria  must 
be  prevented  during  the  manufacturing  process,  as  the  bacterial  action 
lowers  the  grade  of  gelatin  obtained  and  odors  develop  that  remain  in 
the  finished  gelatin  even  if  putrefaction  is  later  stopped. 

Market  types  of  gelatin.  Gelatin  is  put  upon  the  market  in  three 
forms:  granulated,  pulverized,  and  sheet.  The  granulated  is  the  form  most 
commonly  obtained. 

Sheppard  and  Hudson  have  reported  a  new  form  of  gelatin.  It  is  called 
pressed  foam  gelatin.  It  is  said  to  absorb  water  rapidly  and  to  dissolve 
rapidly  and  it  is  not  excessively  bulky. 

Hydrolysis  of  Collagen 

Temperature.  When  collagen  is  heated  with  water,  gelatin  is  formed. 
Bogue  states  that  this  occurs  at  80°  to  90°C.  or  at  higher  temperatures.  The 
reaction  occurs  more  rapidly  at  higher  temperatures,  but  at  these  tempera- 
tures more  of  the  gelatin  is  hydrolyzed  to  proteoses,  peptones,  or  amino 
acids.  When  meat  is  cooked  in  hot  water  the  collagen  of  the  connective 
tissue  is  converted  to  gelatin.  The  gelatin  is  soluble  in  the  hot  water,  and 
as  it  is  dissolved  the  muscle  fibers  are  separated  and  fall  apart.  At  tem- 
peratures below  the  boiling  point  of  water  a  longer  time  is  required  to 
hydrolyze  the  collagen  to  gelatin. 

Acids.  The  addition  of  a  dilute  acid  hastens  the  hydrolysis  of  collagen, 
but  this  also  increases  the  hydrolysis  of  the  gelatin  to  peptones  and  amino 
acids.  The  latter  products  do  not  form  gels,  so  that,  in  the  manufacture 
of  gelatin,  it  is  not  desirable  for  the  gelatin  to  contain  very  much  of  these 
products.  Softening  of  connective  tissue  in  cooking  meat  is  brought 
about  in  a  shorter  time  by  the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  acid. 
Tomatoes  added  to  a  stew  will  accomplish  this  purpose.  Sometimes  vinegar 
is  used. 


f 


180  GELATIN 


Properties  of  Gelatin 

Gelatin  Is  characterized  by  forming  a  solution  in  water  at  high  tem- 
peratures and,  with  high  enough  concentration,  a  gel  at  low  temperatures. 
The  dry  gelatin  has  a  slightly  yellow  cast  and  contains  from  10  to  18 
per  cent  of  moisture.  It  swells  when  put  in  cold  water,  the  degree  of 
swelling  being  modified  by  acids,  alkalies,  or  salts.  It  dissolves  at  about 
35 °C.,  and  it  gels  at  low  temperatures,  the  exact  gelation  temperature 
depending  upon  the  concentration  and  time  of  standing. 

Swelling  and  Solution 

The  extent  to  which  gelatin  swells  in  water  is  modified  by  the  surface 
area,  its  initial  /»H,  the  presence  of  or  addition  of  acids,  alkalies,  and  in- 
organic salts,  and  its  previous  history.  Bogue  states  that  gelatin  tends  to 
absorb  water  equal  to  the  amount  of  water  it  held  at  the  last  warming, 
but  not  very  much  over  this.  Thus  the  degree  of  swelling  Is  modified  by 
the  previous  history  of  the  sample.  This  would  include  treatment  during 
manufacture. 

Ease  o£  hydration  of  gelatins.  The  pulverized  gelatin  swells  most 
rapidly,  for  It  Is  finely  divided,  hence  has  a  greater  surface  area.  Granu- 
lated gelatin  absorbs  water  quickly,  not  so  rapidly  as  pulverized,  but  rapidly 
enough  so  that  It  Is  easily  used  in  the  home.  Sheet  gelatin  may  be  thin  or 
rather  thick.  The  thin  form  Is  easily  hydrated,  but  the  thick  does  not 
hydrate  so  readily,  and  therefore  requires  longer  soaking  in  cold  water  or 
a  longer  period  of  heating  to  dissolve.  In  preparing  gelatin  dishes  the  gela- 
tin Is  usually  allowed  to  soak  In  a  small  amount  of  cold  water.  During 
this  soaking  it  swells.  Bogue  suggests  that  this  swelling,  by  the  formation 
of  capillary  spaces  In  the  Interior  of  the  gelatin  particles.  Increases  the 
surface  of  the  gelatin. 

Solution.  According  to  Bogue,  soaked  gelatin  goes  Into  solution  more 
rapidly  than  unsoaked  gelatin  owing  to  solution  occurring  from  the  outer 
and  inner  surfaces,  whereas  If  gelatin  Is  put  In  hot  water  before  soaking, 
swelling  Is  Inhibited  to  a  certain  degree  and  solution  takes  place  from  the 
outer  surface  only.  The  process  of  solution  may  be  analogous  to  hydrolysis 
of  collagen.  I.e.,  just  as  gelatin  is  formed  more  readily  from  the  swollen 
collagen,  so  solution  may  take  place  more  readily  from  the  swollen  gelatin. 
Very  little  of  the  gelatin  goes  Into  solution  while  It  Is  soaking  In  cold 
water.  When  the  temperature  is  Increased  to  about  35  °C.  the  gelatin  goes 
into  solution  rapidly.  For  food  preparation  this  is  often  accomplished  by 
adding  hot  water  to  the  hydrated  gelatin.  It  can  also  be  accomplished  by 
melting  the  hydrated  gelatin  over  hot  water  and  then  adding  cold  water 
or  fruit  juices. 


GELATION  AND  STIFFENING  POWER  OF  GELATIN     181 

Initial  pH.  Bogue  states  that  ordinary  gelatin  usually  has  a  pH  about 
7.  The  pH  of  different  commercial  brands  used  in  the  laboratory  for  food 
preparation  has  been  found  to  vary  from  pH  5  to  7.  The  isoelectric  point 
of  gelatin  is  given  as  pH  4.7.  At  this  point  it  is  least  soluble,  least  ionized 
and  swells  the  least.  Bogue  has  found  turbidity  and  foaming  to  be  at  a 
maximum  at  the  isoelectric  point.  Loeb  states  that  1  gram  of  dry  gelatin 
at  the  isoelectric  point  absorbs  7  grams  of  vi^ater.  As  the  />H  is  decreased 
below  4.7  or  increased  above  4.7,  greater  absorption  of  water  occurs  until 
a  maximum  is  reached.  Bogue  states  that  it  is  desirable  from  the  standpoint 
of  solubility  for  the  gelatin  to  have  a  pH  of  3.0  to  3.5,  or  8  to  9.  The 
variation  of  the  pH.  of  commercial  gelatins  is  due  to  differences  in  salt 
content,  which  may  increase  the  acidity  or  alkalinity.  This  acidity  due  to 
electrolytes,  or  to  the  treatment  in  acids  and  alkalies  during  manufacture, 
is  often  referred  to  as  the  residual  acidity  or  alkalinity  of  the  gelatin. 

Acids.  At  a  pH  below  4.7  the  amount  of  water  absorbed  increases  with 
increasing  acidity  until  a  maximum  is  reached  at  a  pH  of  about  3.5.  As 
the  pH  is  lowered  more  than  3.5,  the  amount  of  water  absorbed  decreases. 
Loeb  states  that  at  a  pH  of  3.2  to  3.5  a  gram  of  dry  gelatin  absorbs  about 
35  grams  of  water.  In  food  preparation  the  acid  fruit  juices  are  added 
after  the  gelatin  is  in  solution,  so  that  the  extent  of  swelling  during  hydra- 
tion is  affected  by  the  initial  acidity  of  the  gelatin.  In  gelatin  mixtures  that 
contain  acid  salts,  as  acid  phosphates  and  citric  acid  added  for  flavoring, 
the  amount  of  swelling  would  be  affected  by  the  acidity. 

Alkalies,  Alkalies  have  the  same  effect  as  acids  upon  the  swelling  of 
gelatin,  except  that  it  is  not  so  pronounced.  Bogue  states  that  the  maxi- 
mum swelling  on  the  alkaline  side  is  at  pH  9. 

Salts.  Salts  also  affect  the  water  absorption  of  gelatin.  Some  salts  in- 
hibit the  swelling  and  others  favor  it.  Ostwald  states  that  when  salts  and 
acids  are  combined  the  salt  usually  decreases  swelling  below  the  amount 
which  w^ould  result  in  the  presence  of  acid  alone,  even  though  the  salt 
alone  may  increase  swelling.  Sugar  decreases  swelling.  Loeb  states  that,  if 
the  pH  of  the  solution  is  kept  constant,  all  ions  of  the  same  valency  and 
charge  have  nearly  the  same  depressing  effect  upon  swelling.  The  depress- 
ing effect  increases  with  increasing  valency. 

Gelation  and  Stiffening  Power  o£  Gelatin 

Gelation  is  the  formation  of  a  gel  or  solidification  of  a  gelatin  solution. 
In  food  preparation  it  is  referred  to  as  the  setting  of  the  gelatin.  The 
setting  point  is  no  clearly  defined  point.  The  gelatin  solution  becomes 
sirupy,  like  a  thick  sugar  solution,  then  gradually  thickens  to  finally  form 
a  firm  gel.  Thus  there  is  no  distinct  point  at  which  solidification  occurs. 
If  samples  of  solutions  are  placed  in  test  tubes,  the  time  at  which  they 
cease  to  flow  may  be  taken  as  the  setting  point.  In  larger  containers  this 
is  not  so  easy  to  ascertain,  and  it  is  necessary  for  members  of  the  class  to 


182  GELATIN 

compare  results  and  all  try  to  select  a  definite  stiffness  as  the  setting  point. 
Sheppard  and  Sweet  devised  an  apparatus  for  determining  the  setting  point. 
They  take  the  setting  point  as  the  point  at  which  a  stream  of  air  bubbles 
ceases  to  flow  through  the  gelatin  solution. 

The  stiffening  power  and  the  viscosity  of  gelatin  are  affected  by  several 
factors.  Usually  stiffening  power  and  viscosity  run  parallel,  but  this  is 
not  always  true,  for  gelatins  giving  the  highest  viscosity  do  not  always 
yield  the  stiffest  jellies.  Viscosity  of  gelatin  is  measured  at  a  temperature 
of  35  °C.  by  some  workers  and  at  60 °C.  by  others.  At  these  temperatures 
gelatin  is  a  liquid  and  will  flow.  Viscosity  is  measured  by  the  rate  of  flow 
under  standardized  conditions;  stiffening  power  or  jelly  strength  is  meas- 
ured when  the  gelatin  is  set. 

Different  brands  of  gelatin  show  decided  differences  in  stiffening  power 
when  made  into  gelatin  to  serve.  If  two  gelatins  cost  the  same  per  pound, 
one  may  be  more  economical  than  the  other,  if  equal  quantities  of  the 
gelatins  when  combined  with  the  same  amounts  of  sugar,  water,  and  flavor- 
ing show  different  stiffening  power. 

Time,  concentration,  and  temperature  all  affect  the  gelation  process  and 
the  stiffness  of  the  resulting  jelly. 

Time  of  gelation.  When  concentration  and  temperature  are  constant 
a  definite  length  of  time  is  necessary  for  gelation  to  occur.  This  is  character- 
istic of  many  colloidal  changes.  With  lessened  concentration  a  longer  time 
is  required  for  gelation.  At  higher  temperatures  a  longer  time  is  required 
for  the  solidification  to  take  place. 

The  firmness  of  the  jelly  is  also  affected  by  time.  Some  time  may  be 
required  after  the  gelatin  solution  has  cooled  to  the  refrigerator  tempera- 
ture before  gelation  occurs.  The  jelly  becomes  stiffer  with  longer  standing. 
Gelatins  allowed  to  stand  in  the  refrigerator  over  night  at  a  temperature 
of  8°  to  10°C.  are  stiffer  than  those  standing  only  a  short  time  after 
gelation  has  occurred.  Clark  and  Du  Bois  state  that  after  gelatin  has  cooled 
3  hours  at  0°C.  little  or  no  further  increase  in  jelly  strength  occurs. 
Dahlberg,  Carpenter,  and  Hening  found  that,  for  the  weak  gelatin  solu- 
tions used  in  ice  cream,  gel  formation  requires  a  long  period  of  time.  They 
allowed  18  hours  for  gel  formation  and  aging  in  most  of  their  experiments. 
However,  they  found  that  the  gumminess  in  ice  cream  due  to  too  much 
gelatin  increased  during  4  to  5  weeks'  storage  of  the  ice  cream.  They 
attributed  this  to  the  ''slow  rate  at  which  gelatin  gels  in  weak  concentra- 
tions come  to  a  final  equilibrium." 

Concentration.  With  a  definite  temperature  and  time,  solidification 
occurs  only  with  a  definite  concentration.  With  increasing  concentration 
of  gelatin  the  time  for  setting  is  shortened.  The  amount  of  liquid  that 
a  gram  of  dry  gelatin  can  bind  and  hold  in  the  form  of  a  gel  is  high,  1  to 
2  grams  forming  a  gel  with  99  to  98  grams  of  water. 

Ostwald  states,  that  the  solidification  of  gelatin  in  Yi  hour  depends  upon 
the  mode  of  preparation,  but  usually  requires  about  2  per  cent  at   15°C. 


"SEEDING"  GELATIN  SOLS  183 

and  1  per  cent  at  0°C.  To  serve  as  food  the  concentration  should  not  be 
too  high,  or  the  jelly  is  too  stiff  to  be  desirable.  Some  food  gelatins  pro- 
duce a  desirable  texture  for  serving  w^ith  a  1.5  per  cent  concentration, 
some  require  2  per  cent,  and  some  may  require  as  much  as  3  or  4  per  cent. 

Manufacturers  often  place  a  quantity  of  gelatin  in  a  packet  or  envelope 
and  state  the  amount  of  vrater  to  be  used  with  it.  This  amount  of  w^ater 
is  an  average  amount  required  under  all  conditions  for  cooling.  In  some 
instances  it  might  be  desirable  to  change  it,  on  account  of  variation  in 
proportion  of  ingredients  or  variation  in  temperatures  at  which  it  solidifies, 
or  for  other  reasons.  Recipes  containing  sauces  thickened  with  egg  or 
starch  do  not  need  so  high  a  concentration  of  gelatin. 

It  is  preferable  to  use  bulk  or  sheet  gelatin  by  weight,  rather  than  by 
measure.  On  account  of  differences  in  the  size  of  the  gelatin  particles, 
a  definite  measure  does  not  yield  the  same  weight,  hence  a  different  concen- 
tration of  the  gelatin  would  be  used. 

Temperature.  With  a  definite  concentration  and  time  for  setting,  solidi- 
fication occurs  only  with  a  definite  temperature.  For  a  high  solidifying 
temperature  a  high  concentration  of  gelatin  is  required.  The  slower  a 
gelatin  solution  is  cooled,  the  higher  the  temperature  at  which  it  solidifies. 
A  gelatin  solution  may  be  cooled  down,  by  packing  ice  around  its  container, 
to  a  temperature  below  that  at  which  setting  would  occur  if  a  longer 
time  is  allowed.  On  the  other  hand,  gelatin  solutions  may  be  mixed  and 
left  standing  for  2  or  3  hours  at  room  temperature.  If  they  are  then  put 
in  ice  or  the  refrigerator  they  set  quite  rapidly  and  as  if  gel  nuclei  might 
have  started  to  form  while  standing  at  room  temperature.  At  low  tempera- 
tures all  gelatins  become  firmer.  At  high  temperatures  they  are  liquid, 
for  no  gel  occurs  at  temperatures  above  35 °C.  with  any  concentration  of 
gelatin.  With  the  same  concentration  one  gel  may  set  at  10°C.,  another 
at  12°,  still  another  at  14°  to  16°C.,  and  others  require  lower  tempera- 
tures for  setting.  The  gelatins  that  set  at  higher  temperatures  show  jellies 
of  greater  firmness  than  those  that  set  at  low  temperatures.  The  ones 
requiring  lower  temperatures  than  10°C.  to  set  do  not  serve  very  well, 
for  they  also  soften  at  a  low  temperature. 

Addition  of  solidified  gelatin  to  a  gel  solution.  Lloyd  states  that 
gelation  is  similar  to  crystallization,  in  that  it  takes  place  from  a  saturated 
solution.  There  are  various  theories  to  account  for  gel  formation.  It  has 
been  suggested  that  nuclei,  strands,  rods,  or  micelles  form  in  the  solution 
and  solidification  takes  place  upon  cooling,  with  the  formation  of  a  gel 
structure.  If  some  gelatin  that  has  solidified  is  added  to  freshly  made 
gelatin  solution  solidification  takes  place  more  rapidly.  Alexander  suggests 
that  this  is  due  to  the  addition  of  nuclei,  and  that  other  particles  aggregate 
around  these  nuclei.  This  is  similar  to  "seeding"  or  adding  of  crystals  to 
crystalloidal  solutions  to  hasten  crystallization.  Dahlberg,  Carpenter,  and 
Hening  find  that  this  property  of  gelatin  has  a  practical  application  in 
ice-cream  making.  The  gelatin  is  added  to  ice  cream  to  improve  the  texture 


184  GELATIN 

and  body  of  the  ice  cream.  If  the  unfrozen  ice-cream  mix  is  aged  at  a 
temperature  just  above  the  freezing  point  a  smoother  ice  cream  is  obtained. 
One  reason  attributed  for  this  is  the  low  viscosity  of  the  freshly  made 
gelatin  solutions  compared  with  the  viscosity  of  the  aged  solutions,  and 
another  is  the  speed  at  which  the  gelatin  gel  previously  aged  reforms 
after  whipping  during  freezing. 

Hydrogen-ion  concentration.  The  acidity  of  the  gelatin  affects  its 
stififening  power.  According  to  the  kind  and  amount  of  ash  and  its  buffer 
action  the  gelatin  may  have  a  hydrogen-ion  concentration  greater  or  less 
than  its  isoelectric  point,  which  is  />H  4.7.  The  initial  pH  of  different 
brands  and  samples  tried  in  the  laboratory  has  been  above  the  isoelectric 
point.  Probably  the  greater  the  acidity  or  alkalinity,  unless  it  is  beyond  the 
maximum  or  minimum  pH  for  the  greatest  water  absorption,  the  less  firm 
the  resulting  jelly.  However,  the  pH  of  a  gelatin  solution  does  not  entirely 
control  the  time  for  setting  or  the  stiffness  of  the  resulting  gelatin.  Two 
gelatin  solutions  may  have  the  same  pH  and  the  same  proportions  of  ingredi- 
ents added,  but  one  may  require  much  longer  than  the  other  to  set  and  never 
produce  as  firm  a  jelly. 

Acids  and  alkalies.  The  addition  of  fruit  juices  or  acid  salts  to  the 
gelatin  solution  increases  its  acidity,  the  increase  depending  on  the  acidity 
of  the  fruit  juice  added,  its  buffer  capacity,  and  the  quantity  added.  Lemon 
juice  has  a  lower  pH  than  most  fruit  juices.  Its  pH  varies  slightly  but 
is  usually  between  2.0  and  2.5.  The  addition  of  ^  cup  of  lemon  juice 
to  ^  ounce  of  gelatin  with  an  initial  pH  6  to  6.5,  3^^  cups  of  water  and 
y2  cup  of  sugar,  lowers  the  pH  of  the  mixture  around  3.  This  is  lower 
than  the  isoelectric  point  of  the  gelatin.  Many  recipes  use  larger  quantities 
of  lemon  juice  than  the  proportion  given  above.  This  would  increase  the 
acidity  still  more.  With  a  definite  concentration  of  gelatin  a  less  firm  jelly 
is  obtained  as  the  amount  of  lemon  juice  is  increased.  A  longer  time  is 
also  required  for  the  gelatin  to  set  with  the  increased  lemon  juice  or 
acidity. 

Patten  and  Johnson  found  that  a  3  per  cent  gelatin  solution  liquefied 
on  standing  when  the  pH  was  sufficiently  low.  Liquefaction  also  varied 
with  the  temperature.  It  occurred  at  a  temperature  of  18°C.  when  the 
gelatin  solution  was  at  pH  3.6  or  lower. 

Some  of  the  less  acid  fruit  juices  do  not  increase  the  acidity  of  the  gelatin 
mixture  as  much  as  the  lemon  juice.  The  addition  of  fruit  or  vegetable 
juices  such  as  tomato  juice  may  bring  the  pH  of  the  gelatin  close  to  its 
isoelectric  point.  The  pH  of  tomato  juice  varies  somewhat  but  is  usually 
between  4.2  and  4.8.  The  juices  that  bring  the  gelatin  close  to  the  isoelec- 
tric point  do  not  increase  the  time  required  for  gelation  to  the  extent  that 
the  lemon  juice  does.  Gelatin  made  with  tomato  juice  varies  in  the  length 
of  time  required  for  setting.  But  in  recipes  lemon  juice  is  usually  added 
in  combination  with  other  fruit  juices,  and  either  lemon  or  vinegar  is 
often  added  with  tomato  juice  for  tomato  gelatins.  Recipes  containing  a 


SUGAR  185 

larger  quantity  of  a  very  acid  fruit  juice  may  need  a  higher  concentration 
of  gelatin  to  produce  a  texture  desired  for  serving. 

Lemon  jellies  were  made  from  the  same  sample  of  gelatin,  using  different 
proportions  of  lemon  juice.  When  the  quantity  of  lemon  juice  added  Vi^as 
just  sufficient  to  bring  the  hydrogen-ion  concentration  of  the  mixture  to 
about  pH  4.7,  the  isoelectric  point  of  gelatin,  the  jelly  formed  w^as  cloudy 
and  more  turbid  than  when  the  pH  of  the  mixture  was  lower  than  4.7. 
Jellies  with  a  pH  lower  than  the  isoelectric  point  of  gelatin  were  clear 
and  sparkling.  They  also  required  a  longer  time  for  the  gel  to  form  than 
those  with  a  higher  pH.  When  the  series  was  repeated  but  citric  acid  was 
substituted  for  lemon  juice,  similar  results  were  obtained. 

Tartaric  acid  added  to  the  gelatin  solution  also  increases  the  time  for 
gelation.  A  teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid  (about  3.5  grams)  or  a  teaspoon  of 
citric  acid  (about  3.5  grams)  added  to  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  and  236.5  cc. 
of  water  gives  the  mixture  about  />H  2.7.  The  jellies  are  clear  and  tart. 

Patten  and  Johnson  have  reported  that  a  3  per  cent  solution  of  gelatin 
at  20°  to  22°C.  begins  to  liquefy  between  a  pH  of  8.4  and  a  pH  of  9.2. 
It  is  not  completely  fluid  at  />H  9.6. 

Salts.  It  has  been  reported  by  several  investigators  that  the  gelation  tem- 
perature is  affected  by  electrolytes.  The  effect  is  usually  given  as  follows 
for  anions  at  equal  concentrations.  The  first  of  the  series  elevates  the 
gelation  temperature,  and  it  is  slightly  lower  for  each  following  anion, 
until  the  iodide  may  lower  the  gelation  temperature  below  0°C.  SO4  > 
citrate  >  tartrate  >  acetate  >  CI  >  CIO3  >  NO3  >  Br  >  I.  This  is  the 
order  above  the  isoelectric  point.  When  enough  lemon  juice  or  acid  has  been 
added  so  that  the  reaction  is  below  the  isoelectric  point  the  cations  may  have 
more  effect  than  the  anions.  The  order  of  anions  given  above  indicates  that 
some  salts  would  increase  the  tenderness  of  gelatin  gels  whereas  others 
would  increase  the  gel  strength. 

Dahlberg,  Carpenter,  and  Hening  found  that  the  gel  strength  was 
greater  in  milk  than  in  water,  even  when  the  proportion  of  gelatin  added 
to  the  milk  was  based  on  the  water  content  of  the  milk  and  not  on  its  total 
volume  or  weight.  They  found  that  the  change  in  hydrogen-ion  concen- 
tration did  not  account  for  this  increase  in  jelly  strength  in  all  the  samples. 
The  other  factors  that  might  influence  the  jelly  strength  were  the  salt 
and  protein  content  of  the  milk.  They  state  that  the  "influence  of  salts 
on  gel  strength  has  been  observed  by  other  investigators,  so  it  may  be  one 
of  the  means  by  which  skim  milk  altered  gel  strength." 

Sugar.  Small  amounts  of  non-electrolytes  do  not  appreciably  affect 
the  viscosity  of  gelatin  solutions,  but  in  large  quantities  sugar  increases 
the  viscosity,  as  a  thick  sugar  sirup  is  more  viscous  than  a  thin  one.  Loeb 
has  reported  that  cane  sugar  does  not  diminish  the  viscosity  of  gelatin  solu- 
tions, but  at  concentrations  of  M/S  or  over  may  increase  it  slightly.  The 
sugar  has  a  similar  effect  upon  the  stiffening  power.  Some  concentrations 
of  sugar  do  not  seem  to  affect  the  stiffening  power,  but  others  do.  Ostwald 


186  GELATIN 

states  that  1  gram  of  sugar  added  to  9  cc.  of  a  6  per  cent  gelatin  solution 
accelerates  gelation.  This  would  give  about  10  per  cent  of  sugar  in  the 
solution.  Larger  quantities  of  sugar  may  retard  gelation. 

Opacity  in  gelatin.  Edwards  states  that  two  factors  of  prime  impor- 
tance in  gelatin  are  its  strength  and  clarity  of  aqueous  solution.  In  regard 
to  clarity  he  says  that  many  perplexing  problems  occur  in  this  connection, 
for  a  gelatin  may  be  clear  at  one  concentration  but,  if  further  diluted, 
may  appear  turbid.  He  says  that  a  complete  explanation  of  the  problem 
of  turbidity  has  yet  to  be  made,  but  some  causes  are  as  follows :  ( 1 )  actual 
dirt,  particles  of  animal  tissue  and  fibers,  (2)  mold,  (3)  emulsified  grease 
and  calcium  salts  of  fatty  acids,  (4)  protein  salts  and  proteins  other  than 
gelatin  which  precipitate  and  remain  in  suspension  when  the  /)H  of  the 
solution  is  varied,  (5)  a  calcium  sulfate-phosphate  complex  which  is  re- 
tained in  solution  by  the  presence  of  sulfurous  acid,  and  (6)  colloidal  sulfur. 

Edwards  states  that  the  first  two  enumerated  difficulties  should  not  be 
present  and  when  detected  the  gelatin  should  be  condemned.  Emulsified 
grease  is  more  difficult  to  remove.  It  results  from  the  employment  of 
greasy  material,  extraction  of  gelatin  at  the  wrong  pH,  the  agitation  of 
liquid  in  the  boiling  vat,  and  improper  filtration.  The  presence  of  proteins 
other  than  gelatin  is  more  likely  to  occur  in  a  skin  gelatin.  Mucin  and 
chondrin  are  readily  soluble  in  weak  alkalies  and  are  thrown  out  of  solu- 
tion by  acids.  Hence  they  are  less  likely  to  be  found  in  acid  gelatins. 
Cloudiness  due  to  the  presence  of  insoluble  calcium  sulfate-phosphate  com- 
plex is  more  likely  to  be  found  in  ossein  gelatins.  Colloidal  sulfur  is  more 
likely  to  be  found  in  glue  than  in  gelatin  stock. 

Gelatin  is  used  in  the  meat  trade  for  packing  tongues,  chickens,  and 
glazing  hams.  Sometimes  a  cloudy  precipitate  appears  which  is  caused  by 
too  much  calcium  in  the  gelatin. 

Black  mentions  that  unless  the  copper  content  of  the  gelatin  is  low  a 
purplish  discoloration  may  appear  with  meats  and  particularly  with 
chicken  and  tongues. 

Another  cause  for  turbidity  is  discussed  by  Clayton.  At  the  isoelectric 
point  the  gelatin  solutions  always  show  more  turbidity,  a  400  per  cent 
increase  in  turbidity  occurring  with  a  pK  variation  of  0.03  (pH  4.87  to 
4.90).  Gelatin  stock  treated  with  lime  shows  greatest  turbidity  on  the  acid 
side  of  the  isoelectric  point  and,  vice  versa,  those  stocks  treated  with  acid 
possess  isoelectric  points  in  the  region  of  pH  7  to  8. 

Previous  history.  The  temperature  to  which  a  gelatin  has  been  pre- 
viously heated  will  cause  a  variation  in  its  viscosity.  It  may  also  change 
its  stiffening  power.  This  heating  may  be  due  to  heating  during  manufac- 
ture or  to  heating  for  dissolving  in  the  home.  The  latter  is  seldom  long 
enough  to  destroy  the  jelly  strength  to  any  appreciable  extent.  A  gelatin 
solution  that  has  solidified  and  then  is  melted  will  form  a  gel  in  a  shorter 
time  for  the  second  or  third  gelation. 


LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES  187 

Agitation  and  foam  formation.  Bogue  and  Alexander  both  state  that 
agitation  or  stirring  lessens  the  viscosity  of  gelatin  solutions.  This  might 
also  affect  the  jelly  strength.  Gelatins  are  often  beaten  when  they  have 
become  thick  but  not  firmly  set.  The  beating  incorporates  air,  forming  a 
foam,  and  the  gelatin  mixture  increases  in  volume.  Bogue  states  that  the 
ability  for  gelatin  to  form  a  foam  is  greatest  at  the  isoelectric  point.  At 
this  point  the  gelatin  particles  have  a  strong  tendency  to  adhere  to  each 
other,  and  this  favors  foam  formation.  If  the  beating  is  done  at  the  time 
when  the  gelatin  has  set  enough  to  be  quite  viscid,  but  has  not  become 
brittle,  so  that  the  edges  break  apart,  the  volume  may  be  increased  two  or 
three  times  that  of  the  original  unbeaten  gelatin.  The  lessening  of  firmness 
may  be  partially  due  to  agitation  of  the  gelatin,  but  part  is  due  to  the 
incorporation  of  air.  The  gelatin  at  this  stage  is  elastic  and  stretches  to 
surround  the  air  particles.  The  gelatin  that  is  to  be  beaten  should  have 
the  flavoring  in  larger  quantity  than  for  an  unbeaten  gelatin  as  the  increase 
in  volume  causes  the  flavor  to  seem  less  concentrated.  If  gelatin  becomes 
too  firm  before  the  beating  is  started  the  gelatin  only  breaks  and  air  is  not 
incorporated.  Whipped  cream  and  beaten  egg  white  are  often  folded  into 
unbeaten  gelatin  or  into  beaten  gelatin. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Alexander,  J.     Glue   and   Gelatin.     Chemical   Catalog  Co.      (1923). 
Alexander,  J.     Colloid  Chemistry,  Theoretical  and  Applied,   by  Selected  Interna- 
tional Contributors.     Edited  by  Alexander.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.      (1926). 
Bancroft,  W.  D.     Applied  Colloid  Chemistry.     McGraw-Hill  Co.      (1933). 
Black,  J.  W.     Opacity  in  Gelatine.     Food  Technology  1:  162    (1931-32). 
Bogue,  R.   H.     Chemistry   and   Technology  of   Gelatin   and   Glue.     McGraw-Hill 

Co.      (1922). 
Bogue,  R.   H.     The  Evaluation  of  Gelatin   and   Glue.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  14:  435 

(1922). 
Bogue,  R.  H.     The  Theory  and  Application  of  Colloidal  Behavior.     International 

Chemical  Series.     McGraw-Hill  Co.     (1924). 
Bradford,    S.    C.      The    Sol-gel    Transformation    and    the    Properties    of    Jellies. 

p.    751,    Colloid    Chemistry,    edited    by    Alexander.      Chemical    Catalog    Co. 

(1926). 
Carpenter,    D.    C,    Dahlberg,    A.   C,    and    Hening,    J.    C.      Grading    Commercial 

Gelatin  and  Its  Use  in  the  Manufacture  of  Ice   Cream.     I.  Ind.  Eng.   Chem. 

20:  397   (1928). 
Clark,   A.  W.,   and  Du   Bois,   L.     Jelly  Value   of   Gelatin   and    Glue.     Ind.   Eng. 

Chem.  10:  707  (1918). 
Clayton,  W.     Foods  as  Colloids  Systems.     Food  4:   195    (1935). 
Dahlberg,   A.  C,   Carpenter,    D.   C,   and   Hening,   J.   C.     Grading  of  Commercial 

Gelatin  and  Its  Use  in  the  Manufacture  of  Ice  Cream.     II.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem. 

20:  516  (1928). 
Edwards,  P.  R,     Opacity  in  Gelatines.     Food  Technology  1:  100    (1931-32). 
Lloyd,  D.  J.     On  the  Swelling  of  Gelatin  in  Hydrochloric  Acid  and  Caustic  Soda. 

Biochemical  J.  14:  147    (1920). 
Lloyd,  D.  J.     The  Problem  of  Gel  Structure,     p.  777,  Colloid  Chemistry.     Edited 

by  Alexander.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.   (1926). 


188  GELATIN 

Loeb,  J.  Proteins  and  the  Theory  of  Colloidal  Behavior.  McGraw-Hill  Co. 
(1922). 

Loeb,  J.  Crystalloidal  and  Colloidal  Behavior  of  Protein.  Chapter  II.  The 
Theory  and  Application  of  Colloidal  Behavior.  Edited  by  Bogue.  McGraw- 
Hill  Co.    (1924). 

Ostwald,  Wo.  An  Introduction  to  Theoretical  and  Applied  Colloid  Chemistry. 
Translation  by  Fischer.     John  Wiley  &  Sons    (1922). 

Ostwald,  Wo.,  Wolski,  P.,  and  Kuhn,  A.  Practical  Colloid  Chemistry.  Transla- 
tion by  I.  N.  Kuegelmass  and  T.  Cleveland.     Methuen  &  Co.     London   (1926). 

Patten,  H.  E.,  and  Johnson,  A.  J.  The  Effect  of  Hydrogen  Ion  Concentration 
on  the  Liquefaction  of  Gelatin.     J.  Biol.  Chem.   38:   179    (1919). 

Rideal,  S.     Glue  and   Glue  Testing.     Scott,  Greenwood  &  Son.     London    (1926). 

Sheppard,  S.  E.,  and  Elliott,  F.  A.  The  Reticulation  of  Gelatine.  Ind.  Eng. 
Chem.  10:  727    (1918). 

Sheppard,  S.  E.,  and  Hudson,  J.  H.  Pressed  Foam  Gelatin.  Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  28: 
422    (1936). 

Sheppard,  S.  E.,  and  Sweet,  S.  S.  The  Setting  and  Melting  Points  of  Gelatins. 
Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  13:  423    (1921). 

Sheppard,  S.  E.,  Sweet,  S.  S.,  and  Scott,  J.  R.  The  Jelly  Strength  of  Gelatins 
and   Glues.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.   12:  1007    (1920). 

Weiser,  H.  B.  Jellies  and  Gelatinous  Precipitates.  Chapter  XV.  The  Theory 
and  Application  of  Colloidal  Behavior.  Edited  by  Bogue.  McGraw-Hill 
Co.    (1924). 

GELATIN 

Directions  for  cooling  gelatin.  The  gelatin  solutions  should  be  put 
to  cool  at  the  same  temperature.  Those  from  the  same  experiment  should 
be  on  the  same  shelf  in  the  refrigerator,  as  the  upper  shelves  have  a  higher 
temperature  than  the  lower  ones.  A  cooling  room  is  a  splendid  place  to 
put  them  while  cooling.  For  class  work  when  periods  are  short  the  setting 
may  be  hastened  by  putting  the  containers  in  crushed  ice.  The  ice  should 
be  the  same  depth  around  all  the  containers.  It  is  better  to  have  all  the 
containers  for  one  experiment  in  the  same  pan  of  ice  for  cooling.  The 
containers  should  be  the  same  size,  shape,  and  material,  for  if  they  are  not 
the  same  size  the  surface  area  for  cooling  will  be  greater  for  some  than 
for  others.  Enamel  or  aluminum  are  good  materials  for  cooling  gelatin 
solutions.  Crockery  or  china  cools  more  slowly  than  metal. 

The  proportion  of  gelatin  suggested  in  the  following  experiments,  3.5 
grams  for  a  cup  of  liquid,  is  not  the  best  proportion  for  all  gelatins. 
With  some  brands  or  grades  about  2  per  cent  or  about  4.8  grams  per  cup 
of  liquid  will  be  required  for  the  best  results.  Find  the  best  proportion 
of  gelatin  for  the  brand  that  is  being  used  and  substitute  that  amount  for 
the  amount  given  in  the  experiments.  Use  the  same  brand  for  all  the 
experiments  except  Experiment  30. 

Record  the  time  and  temperature  when  the  gelatin  is  mixed,  when  it 
begins  to  gel  around  the  edges,  and  when  set.  If  cooled  in  crushed  fee 
make  a  record  of  the  temperature  every  5  minutes  and  plot  on  graph  paper. 
Find  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  the  gelatin  of  standing  20  minutes  at 


GELATIN 


189 


room  temperature.  Most  gelatins  will  need  to  stand  at  least  20  minutes 
or  longer  for  serving. 

Experiment  29. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  dissolving  gelatin  by  different  methods  on  the 
time  required  for  setting  and  the  temperature  at  which  gelation  occurs. 

A.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Add  206.5  cc. 
of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Record  the  temperature  when  mixed  and 
the  time  when  mixed.  Set  in  crushed  ice.  Record  time  and  temperature  every 
5  minutes  or  more  often  until  set.  Plot  on  graph  paper. 

B.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  5 
minutes,  then  melt  over  hot  water.  The  temperature  of  the  hot  water  should 
be  85  to  90°C.  Stir  the  gelatin  until  melted,  remove  from  above  the  hot  water 
and  add  gradually  while  stirring  206.5  cc.  of  cold  water.  Follow  directions  for 
cooling  under  A. 

C.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water  for  5  minutes. 
Stir  while  adding  60  cc.  of  boiling  water.  After  gelatin  is  dissolved  add  131.5 
cc.  of  cold  water.  Follow  directions  for  cooling  under  A.  Compare  the  length 
of  time  required  for  setting,  the  temperature  at  which  setting  occurs,  and  the 
ease  of  dissolving  by  each  method. 

What  proportion  of  an  ounce  is  3.5  grams?  What  proportion  of  an  envelope 
of  gelatin?  What  is  the  measure  in  teaspoons?  A  total  of  240  grams  of  liquid 
and  gelatin  is  used.  What  proportion  of  240  grams  is  15  cc.  ?  What  percentage 
is  3.5  grams? 


Gelatin, 
grams 


Gelatin, 
measure 


Gelatin, 
per  cent 


Time  re- 
quired to  set 


Temperature 
when  mixed 


Temperature 
when  set 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  30. 

To  determine  the  stiffening  power  of  different  brands  of  gelatin. 

Use  as  many  different  brands  ahd  kinds  of  gelatin  as  you  can  obtain.  Use 
plain  gelatin.  H  acidulated  gelatins  are  used  they  should  be  compared  with 
acidulated  gelatins  and  not  with  plain  ones.  Notice  the  color  and  odor  of  each 
gelatin  solution.  Use  a  total  of  240  grams  of  gelatin  and  liquid.  Compare  the 
length  of  time  required  to  set  and  the  firmness  of  the  jellies.  Do  any  of  the 
gelatins  require  too  long  a  time  to  set  to  serve  in  a  reasonable  time?  Are  any 
of  the  gelatins  too  firm? 

1.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by 
warming  over  hot  water.  Add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice, 
and  50  grams  of  sugar.  Follow  directions  under  29A  for  cooling. 

2.  Repeat  30,1,  with  as  many  different  brands  and  grades  of  gelatin  as  have 
been  obtained. 


190 


GELATIN 


Brand 

of 
gelatin 


Gelatin, 
per  cent 


Time 
to  set 


Temper- 
ature 
when 
mixed 


Temper- 
ature 
when  set 


Texture 


Col( 


Od( 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  31. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  distilled  water,  fruit  juices,  tomato,  and  vinegar 
upon  the  stiffening  power  of  gelatin  and  upon  the  time  required  for  gelation. 
Use  a  plain  gelatin. 

A.  Water. 

1.  Use  tap  water.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water. 
Follow  directions  for  cooling  under  Experiment  29A. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  distilled  water. 

3.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  softened  water  if  obtainable. 

B.  Lemon  juice, 
reduce  the  cold  water 


but 


to 


but  reduce  the  cold  water  to 
but  reduce  the  cold  water  to 
the  cold  water 


191.5   cc 

176.5  cc. 

146.5   cc 

to  86.5  cc. 


1.  Repeat  Al 
lemon  juice. 

2.  Repeat  Al 
juice  to  30  cc. 

3.  Repeat  Al 
lemon  juice. 

4.  Repeat  Al,  but  reduce 
lemon  juice. 

C.  Grape  juice. 

1.  Repeat  Bl,  but  substitute  grape  juice  for  the  lemon  juice. 

2.  Repeat  B2,  but  substitute  grape  juice  for  the  lemon  juice. 

3.  Repeat  B3,  but  substitute  grape  juice  for  the  lemon  juice. 

4.  Repeat  B4,  but  substitute  grape  juice  for  the  lemon  juice. 

D.  Tomato  juice. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  but  substitute  tomato  juice  for  the  cold  water. 

E.  Vinegar. 

1.  Repeat  B2,  but  substitute  vinegar  for  the  lemon  juice. 

2.  Repeat  B3,  but  substitute  vinegar  for  the  lemon  juice. 


and  add  15  cc.  of 
and  increase  lemon 
and    add   60   cc.   of 


and   add    120  cc.   of 


Gelatin, 
per  cent 


Time 
required 
to  set 


Temperature 
when  set 


Proportion 
of  acid 
added 


Color 


Texture 


Results  and  conclusions. 


GELATIN 


191 


Experiment  32. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  percentage  of  gelatin  upon  the  time 
required  for  gelation  and  the  stiffness  of  the  gelatin. 

1.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by 
warming  over  hot  water.  Add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice, 
and  50  grams  of  sugar. 

2.  Repeat  32,1,  but  increase  the  gelatin  to  4.8  grams  and  reduce  the  cold 
water  to  174  cc.  What  is  the  percentage  of  gelatin  used?  Its  measure? 

3.  Repeat  32,1,  but  increase  the  gelatin  to  5.8  grams  and  reduce  the  cold 
water  to  172  cc.  What  is  the  percentage  of  gelatin  used?  Its  measure? 

4.  Repeat  32,1,  but  increase  the  gelatin  to  7.2  grams  and  decrease  the  cold 
water  to  171  cc. 

5.  Repeat  32,1,  but  decrease  the  gelatin  to  2.4  grams  and  increase  the  cold 
water  to  192.5  cc. 


Gelatin, 
grams 


Gelatin, 
measure 


Gelatin, 
per  cent 


Time  to 
set 


Temperature 
when  set 


Texti 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  33. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  high  temperatures  upon  the  stiffening  power  of 
gelatin. 

A.  Plain  gelatin. 

1.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  bowl 
to  prevent  the  steam  from  condensing  in  the  bowl  and  increasing  the  quantity 
of  liquid  in  the  gelatin.  If  the  quantity  of  liquid  is  increased,  measure  it  and 
decrease  the  cold  water  added  accordingly.  Place  the  covered  bowl  in  a  pressure 
cooker  and  heat  for  15  minutes  at  15  pounds  pressure.  Take  from  the  cooker 
and  add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice,  and  50  grams  of  sugar. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  after  hydrating  add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  gelatin  before 
heating  in  the  pressure  cooker. 

3.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  in  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Melt  over  hot  water, 
then  add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice,  and  50  grams  of  sugar. 

Does  hydrolysis  occur  more  rapidly  when  the  gelatin  contains  an  acid  or 
when  plain?  Does  the  one  with  the  acid  ever  become  stiff  enough  to  serve? 


B.  Acidulated  gelatin. 

Repeat  the  directions  under  33A,  but  use  acidulated  gelatin.  Notice  the 
proportions  given  on  the  package  for  a  cup  of  liquid  and  use  the  part  of  a 
package  needed  for  a  cup  of  the  gelatin  solution.  What  is  its  weight  and 
measure?  Make  up  1  cup  without  heating  in  the  cooker  for  a  control.  Compare 
with  A  for  time  required  to  set  and  the  texture  of  the  gelatin. 


192 


GELATIN 


Experiment  34. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  sugar  upon  the  texture  of  a  gelatin  jelly. 

1.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  warm- 
ing over  hot  water,  then  add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  and  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice. 

2.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  warm- 
ing over  hot  water,  then  add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice, 
and  50  grams  of  sugar. 

3.  Hydrate  3.5  grams  of  gelatin  with  30  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  warm- 
ing over  hot  water,  then  add  176.5  cc.  of  cold  water,  30  cc.  of  lemon  juice, 
and  100  grams  of  sugar.  Compare  the  stiffness  of  the  gelatins  and  the  time 
required  to  set.  If  desired  the  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted  in  Experiment  34 
and  the  cold  water  increased  to  206.5  cc.  This  will  show  the  effect  of  the  sugar 
upon  gelation   and   the   stiffness   of   the   jelly  without   the    added   lemon  juice. 


Sugar, 
grams 


Time  to 
set 


Temperature 
when  set 


Texture 


Effect  of  sugar 
on  texture 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Experiment  35. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  fresh  pineapple  on  the  gelation  property  of 
gelatin. 

Hydrate  7  grams  of  gelatin  with  60  cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  warming 
over  hot  water,  then  add  330  cc.  of  cold  water,  60  cc.  of  lemon  juice,  and 
100  grams  of  sugar.  Divide  into  two  equal  portions. 

1.  To  part  one  add  2  tablespoons  of  grated  raw  pineapple.  Cool. 

2.  To  part  two  add  2  tablespoons  of  cooked  grated  pineapple.  Cool.  Does 
the  gelatin  containing  the  uncooked  pineapple  gel?  Why?  What  is  the  effect  of 
cooking  upon  the  pineapple?  Results. 

Experiment  36. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  texture  of  gelatin  of  beating  and  the  addi- 
tion of  whipped  cream  and  beaten  egg  white. 

Make  up  4  cups  of  lemon  jelly  by  hydrating  14  grams  of  gelatin  with  120 
cc.  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  warming  over  hot  water,  then  add  720  cc.  of 
cold  v/ater,  120  cc.  of  lemon  juice,  and  200  grams  of  sugar.  Divide  into  4 
equal  parts.  Metal  quart  cups  are  good  to  use  for  gelatins  that  are  to  be 
beaten  as  the  volume  may  be  measured  without  removing  from  the  container. 

1.  Cool. 

2.  Cool  until  it  becomes  thick  enough  to  beat.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until 
the  volume  increases.  Cool  until  firm.  Obtain  volume. 

3.  Repeat  36,2,  but  after  beating  fold  in  a  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Cool 
until  firm.  Obtain  volume. 

4.  Repeat  36,2,  but  after  beating  fold  in  ^  cup  of  whipped  cream.  Cool 
until  firm.  Obtain  volume. 


GELATIN 


193 


Compare  for  volume,  flavor,  texture,  and  number  of  servings  obtained.  Does 
the  volume  increase  or  decrease  when  the  whipped  cream  is  folded  into  the 
gelatin?  Is  the  above  proportion  of  lemon  juice  best  for  both  a  plain  jelly  and 
a  beaten  jelly?  What  proportion  of  lemon  juice  and  sugar  would  you  suggest 
for  a  plain  jelly?  For  a  beaten  jelly? 


Volume 


Number  of 
servings 


Texture 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 


CHAPTER  VII 

MEAT 

Grading  and  Stamping  o£  Meat 

Federal  grading  and  stamping  of  meat  was  inaugurated  in  1927.  Davis 
states  that  because  the  government  grading  is  not  influenced  by  season, 
geographical  location,  or  any  other  factor,  the  purchaser  is  assured,  whether 
by  long  distance  or  over-the-counter  sales,  of  always  securing,  within  cer- 
tain narrow  limits,  the  same  quality  of  meat  when  buying  a  definite  United 
States  grade.  The  service  has  grown  until  United  States  graded  meat  can 
be  purchased  in  many,  though  not  all  retail  markets. 

Classes  of  meat.  Bovine  animals  are  divided,  because  of  characteristics 
at  different  ages,  into  veal,  calves,  vearlings,  and  mature  beef.  Sometimes 
baby  beeves  are  given  as  a  separate  group  between  calves  and  yearlings. 
The  usual  trade  practise  is  to  group  baby  beeves  with  yearlings.  Sheep  are 
divided  into  lambs,  yearlings,  and  mutton.  The  division  into  classes  is  based 
on  sex.  Thus  the  classes  of  beef  are  steer-,  heifer-,  cow-,  bull-,  and  stag- 
beef.  Carcasses  from  each  class  are  further  subdivided  into  grades.  Grading 
divides,  in  so  far  as  possible,  the  carcasses,  or  subdivisions  thereof,  of  the 
uncooked  meat  into  groups,  the  various  grades  indicating  the  relative 
desirability  of  the  meat  for  ultimate  consumption,  there  being  no  exact 
dividing  line  between  one  grade  and  that  just  higher  or  lower. 

Basis  for  grading.  The  basis  for  grading  is  on  what  the  grader  calls 
quality,  conformation,  and  finish.  Quality  in  so  far  as  appearance  can  fore- 
tell includes  relative  tenderness,  juiciness,  and  palatability.  By  conforma- 
tion is  meant  the  form  or  shape,  animals  having  broad,  large,  full  muscles, 
with  relatively  smaller  proportion  of  bone,  being  graded  highest.  Finish 
refers  to  the  amount,  quality,  and  color  of  fat  w^ithin  and  around  the 
muscle.  A  few  points  considered  in  grading  do  not  always  affect  the 
palatability  of  the  meat.  For  example,  the  fat  of  beef  usually  becomes  more 
yellow  with  age,  so  that  whiter  fat  is  graded  higher  than  creamy  or  more 
yellow  fat.  Yet  in  animals  of  the  same  age  the  deeper  yellow  color  of  the 
fat  indicates  that  the  animal  with  more  yellow  fat  had  more  carotene  in  its 
feed.  If  conformation  and  finish  both  rated  high,  the  meat  from  the  animal 
with  yellow  fat  would  undoubtedly  be  as  palatable  and  also  have  more 
nutritive  value  than  meat  from  an  animal  with  white  fat.  Grass-fed  ani- 
mals, because  the  meat  is  darker  in  color,  may  be  graded  lower,  even  when 
all  other  points  rate  high. 

194 


MEAT 


195 


Courtesy  Bureau  of  Agricultural  Economics,  Dept.  Agriculture. 
Fig.    19. — Showing  the   manner   of   branding  for   the   hind    and   fore   quarters   of 
United   States  graded  beef.  The  small   round  marks   are  inspection  brands. 


196  MEAT 

United  States  grading  is  a  promiscuous  service.  The  grading  may 
be  done  by  federal  graders  or  by  the  packers,  but  if  by  the  packers  only  for 
packer  grades.  If  done  by  federal  graders  the  meat  is  stamped  with  the 
class  of  animal  and  the  United  States  grade.  See  Fig.  19.  The  service  is 
paid  for  by  the  buyer  of  the  meat.  Grading  is  not  a  compulsory  service 
but  a  promiscuous  one.  Davis  states  the  cost  of  grading  varies  in  different 
establishments  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  carcasses  graded  and  stamped. 
But  the  cost  is  small,  being  less  than  1/20  of  a  cent  a  pound.  Hence,  any 
extra  cost  to  the  consumer  should  be  largely  for  the  quality  obtained  rather 
than  the  cost  of  stamping.  Grading  insures  the  purchaser  of  uniform 
quality,  and  both  buyer  and  purchaser  use  the  same  terminology  for 
specifications  and  qualifications.  In  Seattle  and  in  some  other  cities,  all 
retail  cuts  must  be  plainly  labeled  with  the  United  States  grade. 

Grades.  In  general  classes  of  carcasses  are  divided  into  seven  or  six 
United  States  grades,  though  pork  because  it  is  more  uniform  in  quality 
than  beef  or  mutton  has  only  four  grades.  Steer-  and  heifer-beef  are  divided 
into  seven  grades,  but  cow-,  bull-,  and  stag-beef  are  divided  into  six 
grades,  the  top  grade.  Prime,  being  omitted.  Lamb  and  mutton  are  divided 
into  six  grades. 

The  seven  United  States  beef  grades  are  designated  by  both  a  name  and 
a  number  and  follow:  No.  Al,  Prime;  No.  1,  Choice;  No.  2,  Good;  No.  3, 
Medium;  No.  4,  Common;  No.  5,  Cutter;  and  No.  6,  Low  Cutter.  The 
grades  for  lamb  and  mutton  are  similar  to  those  for  beef,  except  that  No.  5 
is  called  Cull  and  there  is  no  No.  6.  The  pork  grades  are  No.  1,  No.  2, 
No.  3,  and  Cull. 

The  stamp  indicating  the  grade  is  put  on  with  a  roller.  The  material 
used  for  stamping  is  an  edible,  vegetable  compound  which  often  disappears 
during  cooking.  Stamping  starts  at  the  shank,  continues  over  the  round, 
the  rump,  the  loin,  along  the  back  over  the  prime-rib  beef  cuts,  and  to  the 
neck.  See  Fig.  19.  In  beef  another  line  is  put  over  the  shoulder.  Thus  the 
stamp  indicating  grade  occurs  on  all  major  retail  cuts.  Although,  as  has 
been  indicated,  all  the  grades  may  be  stamped,  in  actual  practise  the  bulk 
of  the  beef  that  has  been  graded  and  stamped  has  been  the  Prime,  Choice, 
and  Good  grades  of  steers  and  heifers.  Some  Choice  cow-beef  is  stamped. 
Only  a  small  amount  of  steer-  and  heifer-beef  below  Good  is  graded  and 
practically  no  bull-  or  stag-beef  is  graded. 

The  proportion  of  classes  to  total  beef,  in  percentage,  for  a  30-month 
period,  July  1,  1918,  to  Dec.  31,  1920,  are  given  by  Davis  and  Whalin  as 
follows:  Steer,  49.94;  bull  and  stag,  3.57;  cow,  36.53;  and  heifer-beef, 
14.96. 

The  approximate  distribution  of  steer-beef  by  grades  is  given  by  Davis 
and  Whalin  as  follows:  Prime,  about  0.5;  Choice,  4;  Good,  22;  Medium, 
53 ;  Common,  17 ;  and  Cutter  and  Low  Cutter  combined  about  3.5  per  cent. 

Very  little  of  the  two   lowest   grades  can   be   purchased   on   the   retail 


TRICHINOSIS  197 

market,  practically  all  of  the  meat,  except  that  used  for  boneless  cuts  such 
as  tenderloin,  being  used  in  products  like  sausage. 

Packer  brands.  Packers  designate  their  better  quality  of  meat  by  brand 
names.  If  the  United  States  grade  is  stamped  on  the  meat  the  packer  brand 
is  not  used. 

Federal  Inspection  of  Meat 

All  meats  shipped  from  one  state  to  another  are  under  federal  surveil- 
lance. This  includes  the  meat  produced  by  the  larger  establishments,  about 
two-thirds  of  that  consumed.  Each  state  and  the  cities  usually  have  some 
regulations  concerning  meats  and  supervision  of  local  plants. 

The  purpose  of  inspection  is  to  insure  that  the  meat  sold  to  the  Con- 
sumer is  from  healthy  animals,  in  sound  condition  at  the  time  of  slaughter. 

The  inspection  stamp  is  round  and  is  placed  on  each  wholesale  cut  and 
on  all  grades  of  meat.  In  Fig.  19,  the  four  round  stamps  are  inspection 
stamps  placed  on  what  will  be  the  wholesale  cuts  of  round,  rump,  sirloin, 
and  short  loin. 

Inspection  of  carcasses  and  the  supervision  of  making  of  meat  products 
safeguard  the  consumer.  However,  in  one  instance,  inspection  cannot 
entirely  safeguard  the  consumer.  There  is  no  accurate,  quick  method  that 
can  be  used  in  inspection  that  detects  trichinae  in  trichinae-infected  pork, 
though  federal  supervision  does  insure  that  products  to  be  consumed  with- 
out further  cooking  are  so  treated  that  no  live  trichinae  are  present.  It 
should  be  stated  that  only  a  small  percentage  of  pork  is  infected  with 
trichinae. 

Trichinosis.  Trichinosis  is  contracted  by  eating  uncooked,  trichinae- 
infected  meat,  usually  pork.  Any  animal  eating  pork  may  contract  the 
disease,  however,  and  cases  have  been  reported  in  the  medical  literature 
that  were  traced  to  the  eating  of  raw,  jerked  bear  meat. 

It  is  assumed  that  anyone  buying  fresh  pork  chops,  roasts,  etc.,  will  cook 
the  meat.  But  some  people  grind  raw  lean  pork,  season  it,  and  use  it  in 
sandwiches.  Others  in  making  homemade  sausage  taste  the  uncooked 
product  to  see  that  the  seasoning  is  satisfactory. 

Ransom  and  Schwartz  found  that  live  trichinae  are  quickly  destroyed  by 
heating  the  meat  to  55 °C.  They  may  be  destroyed  at  50°C.  if  the  meat  is 
held  at  this  temperature  for  a  sufficient  time.  Ransom  found  that  trichinae 
are  destroyed  by  freezing,  provided  the  frozen,  infected  meat  is  held  at  a 
temperature  not  higher  than  5°F.  for  10  days. 

All  lean  pork,  in  plants  under  federal  supervision,  used  with  other  meat, 
or  in  pork  products  that  are  to  be  consumed  without  further  cooking,  must 
be  treated  to  make  sure  that  any  live  trichinae  that  may  be  present  are 
destroyed.  Such  products  include  soft  or  fresh  and  dry  summer  sausages, 
frankfurters  and  Vienna-style  sausages,  Italian  and  Westphalian-style  hams, 


198  MEAT 

pork  butts  in  casings,  cured  pork  loins  in  or  without  casings,  capicola,  coppa, 
cotto  salami,  and  other  products. 

In  general  the  methods  used  for  destruction  of  trichinae  are  ( 1 )  freezing 
and  storage  and  (2)  heating,  or  a  combination  of  one  or  more  of  these 
methods. 

The  freezing  treatment  is  called  refrigeration.  The  lean  pork  and  pork 
trimmings  are  frozen.  The  specifications,  based  on  the  work  of  Ransom  and 
allowing  10  extra  days  for  a  margin  of  safety,  are  that  the  frozen  meat 
must  be  stored  for  20  days  at  a  temperature  not  higher  than  5°F. 

Heating  is  called  processing.  The  specifications,  based  on  the  work  of 
Ransom  and  Schwartz  and  allowing  a  margin  for  safety,  are  that  the  meat 
must  be  heated  to  58.3°C.  (137°F.).  Some  products  may  be  heated  to 
only  128°F.  but  must  be  held  at  this  temperature,  often  in  a  smoke  room, 
for  a  specified  number  of  hours. 

Salt  treatment  is  used  for  some  products,  but  a  large  amount,  4.5  per 
cent,  of  salt  must  be  used  and  a  dry  cure  employed.  The  meat  must  be 
held  in  this  salt  cure  for  a  period  of  20  to  25  days  at  specified  temperatures 
and  further  specific  procedures  must  be  followed. 

Definition  of  Meat  and  Flesh 

The  Food  and  Drug  Administration  in  "The  Service  and  Regulatory 
Announcements  of  1933"  define  meat  and  flesh  as  follows:  "Meat  is  the 
properly  dressed  flesh  derived  from  cattle,  from  swine,  from  sheep  or  goats 
sufficiently  mature  and  in  good  health  at  the  time  of  slaughter,  but  is 
restricted  to  that  part  of  the  striated  muscle  which  is  skeletal  or  that  which 
is  found  in  the  tongue,  in  the  diaphragm,  in  the  heart,  or  in  the  esophagus, 
and  does  not  include  that  found  in  the  lips,  in  the  snout,  or  in  the  ears, 
with  or  without  the  accompanying  and  overlying  fat,  and  the  portions  of 
bone,  sinew,  nerve,  and  blood  vessels  which  normally  accompany  the  flesh 
and  which  may  not  have  been  separated  from  it  in  the  process  of  dressing 
it  for  sale. 

"Flesh  is  any  edible  part  of  the  striated  muscle  of  an  animal.  The  term 
'animal'  as  herein  used,  indicates  a  mammal,  a  fowl,  a  fish,  a  crustacean, 
a  mollusk,  or  any  other  animal  used  as  a  source  of  food." 

Muscles 

A  muscle  is  an  organ  made  up  of  fibers  held  together  by  connective 
tissue  and  surrounded  by  a  sheath  of  heavier  connective  tissue.  The  fibers 
are  grouped  parallel  to  each  other  in  bundles  called  fasciculi.  See  Fig.  20. 
Even  the  thinner  sheets  of  connective  tissue  entering  the  bundle  are  shown 
in  some  portions  of  the  photograph.  The  connective  tissue  entering  the 
fasciculi  is  the  endomysium.  The  size  of  the  bundles  or  fasciculi  varies  in 
different  muscles  and  determines  to  a  certain  extent  the  grain  of  the  meat. 


TENDER  AND  LESS  TENDER  CUTS  199 

The  connective  tissue  surrounding  the  fasciculi,  the  perimysium,  varies 
in  thickness,  being  quite  perceptible  to  the  eye  in  some  muscles,  as  in  the 
outer  muscle  of  prime  ribs  shown  in  Fig.  20.  In  some  muscles  it  is  scarcely 
discernible.  The  connective  tissue  enclosing  each  muscle  is  known  as  the 
epimysium  or  muscle  sheath.  The  thicker,  denser  portions  of  the  muscle 
sheath  are  often  little  changed  during  cooking  and  constitute  tough  spots 
in  the  meat. 


Fig.  20. — ^This  photograph  shows  the  bundles  of  muscle  fibers,  the  fasciculi,  and 
the  surrounding  connective  tissue,  the  perimysium.  Even  the  connective  tissue 
entering  the  bundles  of  muscle  fibers  is  shown  in  many  places.  This  muscle  is  the 
narrow  muscle  along  the  outer  edge  of  a  beef  roast.  The  photograph  was  taken 
after  the  meat  was  cooked.  The  muscle  is  pulled  apart  and  pinned  back.  Enlarged 
about  three  times. 

The  spaces  between  the  muscles,  the  fasciculi,  or  the  cells  are  referred  to 
as  intermuscular,  interfascicular,  or  intercellular;  the  area  within  the 
muscle,  the  fasciculus,  or  cell  is  called  intramuscular,  intrafasgicular,  or 
intracellular. 

Classes  of  muscles.  Muscles  are  divided  into  two  groups,  the  skeletal, 
voluntary,  or  cross-striated  and  the  smooth,  plain,  or  long-striated.  The 
smooth  muscles  occur  in  the  walls  of  the  hollow  viscera,  i.e.,  the  intestinal 
tract,  the  arteries,  veins,  etc.  Heart  muscle  is  cross-striated  but  in  many 
of  its  characteristics  it  falls  between  the  two  groups,  voluntary  and  invol- 
untary. The  skeletal  and  heart  muscles  compose  the  muscle  designated  as 
flesh  by  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration. 

Some  muscles  are  exercised  more  than  others.  The  muscles  in  the 
body  of  an  animal  are  not  exercised  or  used  equally.  Thus,  depending  upon 


200  MEAT 

the  extent  to  which  the  muscles  have  been  used,  "tender"  and  "less-tender" 
cuts  are  obtained  from  the  same  animal.  In  general  the  less-tender  cuts  are 
obtained  from  the  neck  and  legs,  the  tender  cuts  along  the  back. 

Fat 

Fat  may  be  deposited  around  and  between  each  muscle,  i.e.,  inter- 
muscularly;  between  the  fasciculi,  interf ascicularly ;  between  the  fibers, 
intrafascicularly;  or  within  the  fiber,  intracellularly.  The  nodular  white 
spaces  between  the  fibers,  Fig.  21,  were  occupied  by  fat  cells,  i.e.,  intra- 
fascicular  fat.  The  fat  was  removed  in  preparation  of  the  section,  but  the 
membrane  between  the  fat  cells  still  shows.  Although  fat  deposited  around 
and  within  the  muscle  is  not  important  in  the  contraction  of  the  muscle, 
that  around  the  muscle,  and  particularly  in  roasts,  bastes  the  roast  during 
cooking  and  thus  afifects  the  palatability. 

Fat  content.  The  fat  content  of  the  body,  and  hence  of  the  muscles 
and  finally  the  "cuts"  of  meat,  varies  with  the  nutritive  condition  and  age 
of  the  animal.  Well-nourished  animals  have  more  fat  distributed  over  and 
throughout  the  muscles.  In  general  older  animals  tend  to  deposit  more  fat 
within  and  around  the  muscle  than  young  ones. 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  the  presence  of  fat  around  and  particularly 
within  the  muscle  increases  the  juiciness  of  the  meat.  Some  water  is  de- 
posited with  the  fat  and  this,  combined  with  melted  fat  is  probably 
responsible  for  the  apparent  increased  juiciness. 

Some  cuts  contain  more  fat.  Cuts  coming  from  certain  locations  con- 
tain relatively  more  fat  than  cuts  from  other  parts  of  the  body.  Fat  tends 
to  be  deposited  first  subcutaneously  and  around  the  internal  organs.  In 
general  deposition  of  fat  intermuscularly  and  intramuscularly  comes  later, 
and  last  of  all  its  deposit  within  the  individual  fibers.  The  deposition  of 
fat  within  the  lean  tissues  is  known  as  marbling,  which  undoubtedly  in- 
creases the  palatability  of  the  meat.  But  to  secure  marbled  muscular  tissues 
a  rather  thick  fat  covering  is  essential  (i.e.,  the  portion  of  the  cut  lying 
beneath  the  skin)  and,  because  meat  is  eaten  primarily  for  its  lean  content, 
many  housewives  think  this  fat  covering  of  the  muscles  is  unnecessary.  The 
fat  covering  differs  in  thickness  in  various  cuts  so  that  no  definite  statement 
can  be  made  as  to  the  most  desirable  thickness.  But  for  a  prime  rib  roast 
most  persons  prefer  a  covering  of  about  ^  inch,  some  liking  more  and 
others  less.  The  fat  covering  can  become  so  thick  and  heavy  that  it  does 
not  materially  increase  the  palatability  and  is  wasteful. 

Adipose  tissue.  Adipose  tissue  is  largely  made  up  of  fat  cells  within 
connective  tissue.  For  human  fatty  tissue  Burns  gives  the  composition : 
water  15  per  cent,  fat  82.5  per  cent,  and  protein  2.5  per  cent.  Gortner 
states  that  adipose  tissue  often  contains  as  much  as  or  more  water  than  it 
does  fat. 


MEAT 


201 


Courtesy  of  Fred  J.   Beard,  Iowa  State   College 

Fig.  21. — Longitudinal  section  of  muscle  fibers  of  beef.  The  white  nodular  spaces 
are  fat  cells.  The  pulling  apart  of  the  fibers  in  preparation  is  shown  by  the  long, 
narrow,  white  spaces.  The  burled  looking  part  of  the  fibers  is  due  to  pulling  of  the 
knife  edge  in  cutting.  The  cross  striations  show  plainly  in  the  fibers  to  the  left  of 
the  fat  cells.  Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


202  MEAT 

Size  o£  fat  cells.  The  size  of  the  fat  cells  varies  with  the  nutritional 
state  of  the  animal.  Hammond  states  that  they  may  be  10  to  20/x  in  a  starved 
animal,  50/x  in  one  in  ordinary  condition,  and  up  to  175/x  in  a  very  fat  one. 
The  cells  are  smaller  within  the  connective  tissue  and  in  the  marbling  fat 
within  the  muscles  and  larger  around  the  internal  organs  and  sub- 
cutaneously. 

Connective  Tissue 

Hammond  states,  that  there  is  evidence  that  the  connective  tissues  go  on 
growing  longer  than  other  tissues  in  the  body,  and  that  maturity  in  them 
is  not  reached  so  soon  as  in  other  tissues.  This  may  be  one  explanation  of 
why  meat  from  older  animals  is  in  general  tougher  than  meat  from  younger 
animals.  Hammond  says  that  with  increased  feeding  fat  is  deposited  in 
the  connective  tissue. 

Kinds  of  connective  tissue.  The  connective  tissue  of  meat  is  com- 
posed of  two  kinds,  the  yellow  and  the  white.  The  amount  and  kind  vary 
in  meat  from  different  animals  and  in  different  cuts  from  the  same  animal. 
Burns  states  that  the  function  of  the  tissue  governs  the  form  produced. 
When  binding  power  alone  is  required  the  white  tissue  is  formed,  but 
when  elasticity  as  well  as  strength  is  necessary,  there  the  yellow  tissue  is 
found.  Tendons  are  composed  almost  entirely  of  the  white,  non-elastic 
tissue;  ligaments  are  principally  the  yellow  tissue.  Many  muscles  seem  to 
require  both  elastic  and  binding  tissue,  hence  both  are  often  found  in  the 
connective  tissue  binding  the  fibers. 

The  yellow  connective  tissue  is  feebly  but  perfectly  elastic  and  is  found 
in  ligaments,  in  the  connective  tissue  between  the  muscle  fibers,  in  the 
walls  of  the  blood  vessels,  and  in  other  parts  of  the  body.  The  best  example 
of  the  yellow  tissue  is  the  ligamentum  nuchae  of  the  ox.  It  is  the  tough 
yellow  ligament  found  along  the  backbone,  which  is  used  in  elevating  the 
head  of  the  animal ;  it  is  much  thicker  and  heavier  along  the  ribs  and  fore 
quarter  than  along  the  loin. 

The  white  connective  tissue  is  non-elastic  and  is  found  in  the  connective 
tissue  between  the  muscle  fibers  and  in  the  tendons,  the  tendon  Achilles 
being  a  good  example. 

Composition  of  connective  tissue.  The  percentage  of  water  in  the 
connective  tissue  of  the  young  animal  is  higher  than  in  the  older  animal. 
Buerger  and  Gies  have  reported  that  the  white  connective  tissue  of  the 
calf  contains  about  68  per  cent  of  water,  whereas  that  of  the  ox  has  about 
63  per  cent.  The  solids  of  the  connective  tissue  are  made  up  of  inorganic 
and  organic  matter.  Buerger  and  Gies  have  reported  the  following  com- 
position of  the  tendon  Achilles  of  the  ox;  Vandergrift  and  Gies  have 
reported  the  composition  of  ligamentum  nuchae  of  the  ox. 

The  collagen  and   elastin   content   of  connective   tissue   are   of  especial 


ELASTIN 


203 


TABLE  24 
Composition  of  the  Fresh  Tissue  of  Achilles  Tendon  and  the  Fresh 

LiGAMENTUM    NuCHAE    OF   THE   Ox 


Constituents 

Tendon  Achilles, 
per  cent 

Ligamentum 
nuchae,  per  cent 

Water 

62.870 

37.130 
0.470 
0.031 
0.039 
0.147 

36.660 
1.040 
0.220 
1.282 
1.633 

31.588 
0.896 

57  570 

Solids 

42  430 

Inorganic  matter 

0  470 

SO3 

0.026 

P2O5 

0  035 

CI 

0  136 

Organic  matter 

41  960 

Fat  (ether-soluble  matter) 

1.120 

Albumin,  globulin 

0  616 

Mucoid 

0.525 

Elastin 

31.670 

Collagen  (gelatin) 

7  230 

Extractives  and  undetermined 

0.799 

interest  in  meat  cookery,  for  both  are  found  in  the  connective  tissue 
betw^een  the  muscle  fibers,  but  heat  and  moisture  affect  the  two  differently. 

Collagen.  Table  24  shows  that  the  white  connective  tissue  contains 
nearly  32  per  cent  of  collagen  and  about  7  per  cent  of  elastin.  Collagen 
in  the  presence  of  moisture  and  at  high  temperatures  yields  gelatin.  Bogue 
states  that  collagen  is  changed  to  gelatin  more  rapidly  at  the  boiling 
temperature  of  water,  or  at  temperatures  above  boiling  obtained  by  pres- 
sure, and  more  slowly  at  temperatures  below  boiling.  The  gelatin  is  dis- 
solved in  the  water  or  broth.  If  the  meat  is  cooked  long  enough,  the  larger 
part  of  the  connective  tissue  is  dissolved,  so  that  the  muscle  fibers  may  fall 
entirely  apart.  Sometimes  in  cooked  meat  only  the  outer  portion  of  the 
fibers  is  separated  and  the  inner  portion  is  still  connected.  The  surface  of 
the  meat  reaches  a  high  temperature  before  the  interior  of  the  meat,  thus 
the  collagen  of  the  connective  tissue  near  the  surface  may  be  changed  to 
gelatin  first. 

Elastin.  Vandergrift  and  Gies  have  reported  the  yellow  connective 
tissue  as  containing  about  32  per  cent  of  elastin  and  about  2  per  cent  of 
collagen.  The  elastin  is  a  very  resistant,  firm  protein  and  is  not  changed 
or  affected  by  heat  and  moisture.  In  cooking,  yellow  connective  tissue  is 
not  softened.  Consequently  cuts  of  meat  containing  large  amounts  of 
elastin  in  the  connective  tissue  will  be  tough  after  cooking,  whereas  cuts 
containing  large  amounts  of  collagen  may  have  part  or  all  of  the  collagen 
changed  to  gelatin. 


204 


MEAT 


TABLE  25 
Connective  Tissue  Proteins  in  Meat  {Mitchell,  Zimmerman,  and  Hamilton) 


Collagen 

Total 

Collagen 

Elastin 

and 

nitrogen 

nitrogen 

elastin 

No. 

Description  of  sample 

nitrogen 
in  sample, 

in 

in 

nitrogen 

per  cent 

percentage 

percentage 

in 

of  total  N 

of  total  N 

percentage 

of  total  N 

1. 

Beef  rib 

3.19 

8.4 

6.4 

14.8 

7.9 

7.2 

15.1 

4. 

Beef  rib 

3.35 

4.2 
4.2 

8.1 
8.2 

12.9 

12.4 

5. 

Beef  shank 

3.42 

7.5 
6.2 

14.4 
12.0 

21.9 

18.2 

6. 

Pork  tenderloin 

3.68 

3.0 

1.7 

4.7 

2.3 

1.8 

4.2 

7. 

Chicken,compositebone- 
less  meat  from  2-lb. 

cockerels 

3.63 

19.6 

5.2 

24.8 

8. 

Chicken,  composite  bone- 

less  meat   from    2-lb. 

pullets 

3.48 

17.8 
18.0 

3.7 
4.1 

21.5 

22.1 

11. 

Chicken,   breast   muscle 

from  3-lb.  cockerel  .  .  . 

3.24 

2.1 

0.8 

2.9 

1.1 

0.6 

1.7 

12. 

Chicken,    thigh    muscle 

from  3-lb.  cockerel 

3.21 

2.4 

3.7 

6.1 

2.0 

6.5 

8.5 

13. 

Chicken,   breast   muscle 

from  3-lb.  pullet 

4.06 

3.4 

0.3 

3.7 

14. 

Chicken,    thigh    muscle 

from  3-lb.  pullet 

3.23 

12.2 

1.7 

13.9 

12.4 

1.7 

14.2 

15. 

Chicken,   breast  muscle 

from  4-lb.  cockerel 

4.14 

6.5 

1.6 

8.1 

6.8 

1.6 

8.4 

16. 

Chicken,    thigh    muscle 

from  4-lb.  cockerel .... 

3.69 

11.9 

1.8 

13.8 

13.5 

2.4 

13.9 

LESS  TENDER  CUTS  HAVE  MORE  CONNECTIVE  TISSUE  205 

Less  tender  cuts  have  more  connective  tissue.  Data  given  in  Table 
25  are  from  the  earlier  work  of  Mitchell  et  al.,  so  that  the  percentage  of 
elastin  given  is  too  high,  but  the  comparative  amounts  in  different  cuts  are 
shown. 

In  later  work  Mitchell  and  co-workers  found  that  the  percentage  of 
elastin  in  muscle  is  small,  but  in  general  the  less  tender  contain  a  larger 
proportion  than  the  tender  cuts. 

From  the  experiments,  results  given  in  Table  26,  Mitchell  et  al.  find 
no  relation  between  the  ordinary  market  grading  of  beef  carcasses  and  the 
connective-tissue  content,  the  eye-muscle  of  ribs  from  the  carcass  of  a 
canner  cow  having  no  more  collagen  than  that  from  a  choice  steer.  The 
results  of  their  ^'investigation  lend  no  support  to  the  belief  that  the  appear- 
ance, texture,  and  firmness  of  beef  lean  give  reliable  information  concern- 
ing its  tenderness."  This  suggests  that  other  factors  than  the  connective- 
tissue  content  alone  affect  the  tenderness  of  meat,  for  most  persons  would 
prefer  taking  a  chance  on  the  eye-muscle  of  ribs  from  a  choice  steer  being 
more  tender  than  that  from  a  canner  cow. 

Pork  contains  little  connective  tissue.  Mitchell  et  al.  have  found  that  all 
the  different  cuts  of  pork  contained  more  nearly  the  same  percentage  of 
connective  tissue  than  the  different  cuts  of  veal  or  beef. 


TABLE  26 

The  Collagen  and  Elastin  Content  of  the  "Ribeyes"  of  the  9th,  10th, 
AND  11th  Ribs  of  Beeves  of  Different  Grade  {Mitchell,  Hamiltony 

and  Haines) 


Dry 

N 

Fat 

Colla- 

Elas- 

Colla- 

Elas- 

Esti- 

matter 

gen- 

tin- 

gen  N 

tin  N 

Carcass 

mated 

Sex 

con- 

con- 

con- 

con- 

con- 

in  per 

in  per 

grade 

age, 

tent, 

tent. 

tent, 

tent. 

tent. 

cent  of 

cent  of 

years 

per 
cent 

per 
cent 

per 
cent 

per 
cent 

per 
cent 

total 

N 

total 

N 

Choice 

1 

steer 

25.82 

3.59 

2.50 

1.08 

0.004 

5.4 

0.02 

Choice 

2 

steer 

27.87 

3.55 

4.35 

1.89 

0.006 

9.4 

0.03 

Good4- 

4 

steer 

29.07 

3.25 

7.78 

1.19 

0.011 

6.5 

0.06 

Good 

young 

cow 

25.16 

3.42 

2.99 

1.16 

0.001 

6.1 

0.005 

Good 

4 

steer 

29.48 

3.30 

7.14 

1.33 

0.002 

7.2 

0.01 

Good+ 

2 

steer 

26.08 

3.57 

3.54 

1.49 

0.003 

7.4 

0.015 

Medium+ 

1 

heifer 

23.82 

3.34 

0.97 

1.05 

5.6 

Medium+ 

cow 

26.82 

3.34 

4.63 

1.59 

0.002 

8.5 

0.01 

Medium-i- 

3-4 

steer 

26.83 

3.36 

5.18 

1.32 

0.008 

7.0 

0.04 

Medium 

3-4 

steer 

26.12 

3.40 

3.62 

1.15 

0.032 

6.1 

0.16 

Common+ 

old 

cow 

25.22 

3.46 

2.92 

1.74 

0.004 

9.0 

0.02 

Canner 

14-15 

cow 

26.62 

3.56 

3.51 

0.92 

0.008 

4.6 

0.04 

206  MEAT 

Connective  tissue  in  fish.  The  connective  tissue  of  fish  is  small  in 
amount  and  probably  contains  mostly  collagen  with  little  or  no  elastin,  for 
it  is  very  easily  disintegrated  and  easily  dissolved  by  cooking,  leaving  the 
muscle  fibers  separated. 

The  Muscle  Fibers 

Each  fiber  is  elongated,  cylindrical,  and  multi-nucleated.  Howell  states 
its  length  does  not  exceed  36  mm.  but  the  species  is  not  stated.  The  average 
length  varies  in  different  muscles  in  the  same  animal  and  in  the  same 
muscles  in  different  kinds  of  animals.  Hammond  says  that  the  average 
length  of  goat  fibers  is  said  to  be  greater  than  those  of  beef,  and  those  of 
beef  greater  than  fibers  in  mutton.  The  average  diameter  also  varies  in 
different  muscles,  in  different  species,  and  in  the  same  animal  with  age. 
Hammond  found  the  average  diameter  of  a  particular  muscle  of  Suffolk 
ram  at  birth,  at  5  months,  and  at  4  years  to  be  12.8^,  40.3^,  and  54.1/x, 
respectively.  It  is  commonly  accepted  that  the  number  of  fibers  does  not 
increase  after  birth  so  that,  in  spite  of  increase  in  diameter  with  age,  the 
size  of  the  muscle  is  largely  determined  by  the  number  and  length  of  the 
fibers  rather  than  their  thickness. 

Each  fiber  is  enclosed  in  the  sarcolemma,  a  thin,  elastic  membrane.  A 
thin,  delicate  band  occurring  regularly  along  the  length  of  the  fiber  divides 
the  fiber  into  its  structural  units,  the  sarcomeres,  a  fiber  being  composed 
of  a  succession  of  sarcomeres.  A  dark  band  shows  in  the  middle  of  each 
sarcomere,  a  lighter  band  on  either  side.  The  material  between  the  fibrils  is 
known  as  the  sarcoplasm  and  the  relative  amount  of  sarcoplasm  varies  in 
muscles  of  different  animals. 

The  contracting  tissue,  the  fibrils,  run  the  length  of  the  fiber.  The  fibrils 
consist  of  alternating  light  and  dark  segments  which  form  the  cross 
striations  of  the  fibers.  See  Figs.  21  and  22.  The  cross  bands  are  supposed 
to  be  of  denser  structure  than  the  material  between  these  bands.  Fig.  22 
shows  the  immense  number  of  these  cross  striations.  The  cross  striations 
also  show  plainly  in  the  fibers  of  Fig.  21. 

All  the  material  within  the  sarcolemma  is  known  as  the  muscle  plasma 
and  in  the  living  muscle  is  in  a  semi-liquid  state. 

Effect  of  exercise  and  maturity  upon  fibers.  Beard  in  his  study  of  ''Tough 
and  Tender  Meat"  states  that  ''muscle  fibers  attain  their  maturity  by  use 
and  age.  Development  implies  increase  in  size  rather  than  maturity."  Beard 
made  a  microscopic  study  of  different  muscles  of  five  different  animals.  The 
animals  selected  for  study  were  a  heifer,  a  short-fed  steer,  a  prime  steer,  an 
-old  cow,  and  a  veal  calf.  Some  of  his  observations  and  conclusions  are  as 
follows : 

"Connective  tissue  seems  more  apparent  in  thinner  fleshed  beef. 

"There  was  intracellular  fat  (fatty  degeneration)  in  the  fat  steer. 


THE  MUSCLE  FIBERS 


207 


"The  fat  steer  had  more  intrafascicular,  intercellular  fat  than  any 
animals  studied. 

"The  inherent  properties  of  the  endomysium  contribute  to  the  toughness 
of  meat  more  than  does  the  size  of  the  fiber. 

"The  muscle  fibers  from  the  region  of  the  toughest  meat  contain  the 
densest  sarcoplasm,  while  fibers  from  the  tenderest  muscles  contain  the 
lightest  sarcoplasm. 

"Intramuscular  and  particularly  intrafascicular  fat  lessens  the  toughness 
of  meat. 


Courtesy  of  Fred  J.  Beard,  lozva  State  College 

Fig.  22. — Longitudinal  section  of  muscle  fibers  of  beef,  showing  cross  striations. 
Magnification  approximately  x  1400. 

"Where  only  a  small  amount  of  intramuscular  fat  is  found  it  is  almost 
always  interfascicular.  As  the  interfascicular  fat  increases  in  amount 
intrafascicular  fat  appears  which  is  first  intercellular  and  in  case  of  exces- 
sive adiposity  intracellular  also." 

Beard  states  that  "while  those  muscles  which  are  brought  most  into 
activity  and  those  performing  the  greatest  amount  of  work  may  not  possess 
a  larger  fiber  than  those  muscles  which  are  less  active,  the  more  active 
muscles  do  have  a  thicker  perimysium  and  apparently  more  substance  in 
the  fiber,  as  manifested  in  the  staining  characters  of  the  sections." 

Toughness  of  meat.  Since  meat  is  composed  of  muscle  fibers  and  con- 
nective tissue,  toughness  of  meat  must  be  due  to  either  of  these,  or  to  both. 
Toughness  of  connective  tissue  depends  upon  the  proportion  of  elastin 
and  collagen;  upon  the  thickness  or  density  of  the  tissue,  which  is  brought 


208 


MEAT 


about  by  use  and  activity;  and  possibly  upon  age,  for  it  is  common  knowl- 
edge that  meat  from  old  animals  and  fowls,  whether  domestic  or  wild, 
is  tougher  than  that  from  young  animals.  Toughness  of  the  muscle  fiber 
depends  upon  the  development  and  the  density  of  the  fiber  due  to  activity, 
and  possibly  to  changes  brought  about  by  age. 

The  deposition  of  fat,  either  intramuscularly,  intrafascicularly,  or 
intracelluiarly,  tends  to  lessen  the  toughness.  This  is  shown  by  the  results 
of  mechanical  tests  with  the  dynamometer,  which  are  given  in  Table  27. 
The  muscle  used  for  thsse  tests  was  the  "eye"  of  beef  or  the  longissimus 
dorsi.  The  judges,  as  shown  by  scores,  agreed  with  the  mechanical  tests,  the 
roasts  from  the  fattened  animals  being  judged  more  tender  than  the  roasts 
from  the  lean  animals.  The  possibility  of  toughness  due  to  power  to  bind 
water,  v/hich  may  be  influenced  by  the  reaction  and  salt  content  of  the 
fibers,  thereby  affecting  the  turgidity  of  the  fibers,  and  the  possibility  of 
toughening  the  fibers  by  heat  coagulation  are  still  to  be  considered. 


TABLE  27 

Results  of  Tenderness  Test  with  Dynamometer  on  Fresh  Beef 

{Helser,  Nelson^  Lowe^  and  Reiser) 


Calves 

Yearlings 

Two-year-olds 

Per- 

Per- 

Per- 

cent- 
age de- 
crease 

cent- 
age de- 
crease 

cent- 
age de- 
crease 

Feed- 
ers 

Fat- 
tened 

m 
pounds 

re- 
quired 

to 
shear 
meat 

Feed- 
ers 

Fat- 
tened 

m 
pounds 

re- 
quired 

to 
shear 
meat 

Feed- 
ers 

Fat- 
tened 

m 
pounds 

re- 
quired 

to 
shear 
meat 

Pounds  pull 
required    to 
shear    the 
meat 

39.50 

32.37 

18.05 

35.41 

24.75 

30.10 

36.78 

28.62 

22.19 

Constituents  o£  the  Muscle  Fibers 


The  muscle  fibers  contain  several  constituents,  and  these  are  grouped 
as  follows  by  Howell :"( 1 )  Inorganic  salts.  (2)  Ferments.  (3)  Pigments. 
(4)     Non-nitrogenous    extractives    (lactic    acid,    etc.).     (5)     Nitrogenous 


PIGMENTS  AND  HEMOGLOBIN  209 

extractives  (creatine,  urea,  etc.).  (6)  Carbohydrates  and  fats.  (7) 
Proteins." 

Inorganic  salts.  In  meat  cookery  the  inorganic  salt  most  noticeable 
from  the  standpoint  of  flavor  is  sodium  chloride  or  common  salt.  The 
juice  from  meat  that  has  had  no  salt  added  before  or  during  cooking 
tastes  salty.  This  is  due  to  the  sodium  chloride  of  the  body  fluids,  which 
contain  about  0.85  per  cent.  Care  should  be  taken  in  adding  salt  to  meat, 
or  the  salt  added  in  cooking  plus  that  of  the  juices  will  result  in  an  excess 
of  salt  in  the  drippings  and  in  gravy  made  from  them.  The  muscle  fibers  do 
not  taste  as  salty  as  the  juices,  particularly  if  a  large  portion  of  the  fluid 
has  been  lost  in  cooking.  The  tissues  do  not  contain  as  high  a  percentage 
of  sodium  chloride  as  the  fluids  of  the  body. 

The  inorganic  salts  are  found  in  a  complex  salt  equilibrium  in  meat. 

The  ferments.  Several  different  kinds  of  enzymes  are  found  in  muscle 
tissue.  The  proteolytic,  amylolytic,  and  lipolytic  enzymes  act  on  proteins, 
carbohydrates,  and  fats,  respectively. 

Pigments  and  hemoglobin.  When  animals  are  slaughtered  for  food 
the  blood  is  drained  from  the  body.  However,  some  blood  clings  to  walls 
of  the  capillaries  in  the  tissues.  This  blood  together  with  the  muscle  pig- 
ments gives  to  meat  its  pink  or  red  color. 

The  hemoglobin  of  the  red  corpuscles  is  the  pigment  giving  blood  its 
purplish-red  color.  The  combination  of  hemoglobin  with  oxygen  forms 
oxyhemoglobin,  which  is  a  bright  scarlet.  Meat  is  a  darker  bluish-red  when 
first  cut,  but  if  the  cut  surface  remains  exposed  to  the  air  it  becomes  a 
brighter  red  color.  When  hemoglobin  and  oxyhemoglobin  are  acted  upon 
by  enzymes,  acids,  alkalies,  or  heat,  various  decomposition  products  are 
formed.  Hematin  is  one  of  the  decomposition  products  formed  by  heat. 
The  coagulating  temperature  of  oxyhemoglobin  is  around  64°C.  Thus 
when  meat  is  cooked  to  temperatures  higher  than  this  the  production  of 
hematin  brings  about  the  brown  or  gray  color  of  well-done  meats.  Dilute 
acids  or  alkalies  may  also  produce  hematin  from  hemoglobin. 

Muscle  pigments.  The  red  pigments  of  muscles  resemble  the  hemoglobin 
of  the  blood.  These  pigments  are  sometimes  designated  as  chromatin  sub- 
stances. Whipple  and  Robscheit-Robbins  call  them  muscle  hemoglobin,  and 
they  have  reported  that  the  properties  of  the  muscle  hemoglobin  are  prac- 
tically the  same  as  or  identical  with  those  of  blood  hemoglobin.  Whipple 
has  found  the  content  of  muscle  hemoglobin  higher  in  active  hunting  dogs 
than  in  inactive  house  dogs.  He  states  that  under  different  conditions  the 
muscles  may  contain  from  10  to  80  grams  of  muscle  hemoglobin  for  each 
100  grams  of  blood  hemoglobin. 

Skeletal  muscles  vary  in  color  in  the  same  animal  and  in  different  species. 
Sometimes  the  pigmentation  varies  in  the  same  species  but  with  different 
types  or  breeds.  Dairy  cattle  have  darker-colored  muscles  than  the  beef 
types.  The  color  of  the  muscle  of  the  young  animal  is  often  lighter  than 
that  of  the  same  muscle  from  an  older  animal.  Veal  is  lighter  in  color 


210  MEAT 

than  beef,  and  the  leg  muscles  of  broilers  are  lighter  than  those  of  mature 
fowls.  Different  muscles  of  the  rabbit  vary  in  color  from  a  very  light  pink 
to  a  deep  red.  The  different  muscles  of  pork  also  vary  in  color.  In  general 
the  muscles  of  the  lower  animals  are  not  pigmented,  with  the  exception 
of  the  heart  muscle.  The  muscles  of  fish  are  white  or  light  in  color,  but 
the  muscles  of  nearly  all  mammals  are  red.  Needham  states  that  "red  pig- 
mentation seems  to  occur  in  muscles  from  which  the  most  persistent  and 
prolonged  activity  is  required."  Earlier  investigators  have  also  suggested 
that  in  general  pigmentation  occurs  in  muscles  used  most  frequently. 

Ejfect  of  ripening  upon  meat  pigments.  Meat  that  has  been  ripened  40 
to  60  days  is  usually  a  deeper  gray  in  color,  when  cooked,  than  unripened 
meat  from  the  same  animal,  provided  the  cooking  conditions  are  the  same. 
The  darker  color  may  be  due  to  the  action  of  enzymes  and  acid  upon  the 
hemoglobin,  so  that  more  hemoglobin  is  broken  down  to  produce  hematin 
at  lower  cooking  temperatures,  or  it  may  be  due  to  other  factors. 

Non-nitrogenous  extractives.  Lactic  acid  is  always  present  in  muscle 
tissue.  The  amount  is  small  while  the  muscle  is  at  rest  and  increases  during 
and  after  exercise.  After  death  the  percentage  of  lactic  acid  in  the  muscle 
increases. 

Nitrogenous  extractives.  Muscle  tissue  contains  end  products  of 
protein  metabolism.  These  are  removed  as  they  accumulate  during  life 
from  the  tissues  by  the  body  fluids  and  are  excreted  through  the  kidneys. 
Creatine  and  creatinine  are  found  in  the  muscles  and  to  a  lesser  extent 
in  the  blood.  Uric  acid  and  other  nitrogenous  extractives  are  also  found  in 
the  muscles.  They  are  of  interest  in  meat  cookery,  because  they  are  the 
source  of  part  of  the  distinctive  flavor  of  meat,  and  stimulate  the  flow  of 
gastric  juice. 

Carbohydrates  and  fats.  The  carbohydrate  found  in  the  muscle  tissue 
is  glycogen. 

Burns  states  "the  fat  content  of  the  cell  is  unique.  Every  cell  has  a 
fairly  constant  content  of  lipide,  although  when  stained  by  the  usual 
methods  to  demonstrate  fat,  no  evidence  is  given  of  such  a  content.  This 
masked  fat  is  only  made  visible  when  the  cell  is  diseased  or  disintegrated." 

The  proteins  of  the  muscle  fibers.  The  proteins  of  the  muscles  are 
composed  largely  of  two  types :  ( 1 )  the  structural  proteins,  which  consist 
largely  of  collagen  awd  elastin  and  (2)  the  protoplasmic  proteins,  variously 
called  myosinogen,  myogen,  myosin,  and  myoglobulin.  The  two  types  of 
proteins  behave  differently  when  heated,  the  effect  of  heat  on  the  structural 
or  connective  tissue  proteins  having  been  considered.  The  proteins  of  the 
plasma  are  soluble  in  certain  concentrations  of  salt  solutions,  such  as 
sodium  chloride,  sodium  sulfate,  magnesium  sulfate,  ammonium  sulfate, 
sodium  phosphate,  and  other  salts.  Hence,  they  are  often  referred  to  as 
the  soluble  proteins. 

The  entity  of  the  meat  proteins  is  in  the  same  status  as  that  of  flour 


POST-MORTEM  CHANGES  IN  MEAT  211 

and  other  food  proteins.  (See  proteins  of  flour,  Chapter  XL)  They  may 
or  may  not  be  a  mixture  of  proteins  having  similar  properties. 

The  soluble  muscle  proteins  are  most  commonly  designated  as  myosin 
and  myogen.  They  are  classified  as  globulins,  the  myosin  being  completely 
precipitated  and  the  myogen  partially  precipitated  by  saturated  magnesium 
sulfate.  However,  complete  information  about  these  proteins  is  lacking. 
Moran  quotes  Muralt  as  suggesting  that  the  fibrils  are  composed  of  a 
firmer  material  (myosin)  surrounded  by  the  more  liquid  or  gel-like 
myogen  (sarcoplasm).  The  evidence  for  this  w^as  based  on  X-ray  studies, 
but  is  not  generally  accepted.  Since  myogen  is  doubly  refractive,  this  is 
almost  conclusive  proof  that  it  occupies  the  light  bands  in  the  muscle  fibers. 

Characteristics  of  proteins.  One  of  the  outstanding  characteristics  is 
the  extent  to  which  solubility  is  affected  by  small  changes  in  salt  concen- 
trations. Smith  has  reported  that  exhaustive  extraction  with  any  given 
salt  yields  only  a  fraction  of  the  total  protein.  The  highest  yield,  about 
90  per  cent,  was  obtained  with  1.87  M  NH4CI,  followed  by  1.65  M 
LiCl,  and  a  still  lower  percentage  with  the  other  salts  tried.  Howe  found 
that  the  total  globulins  (myosin  and  myogen)  compose  about  one-third  of 
the  total  protein  of  the  muscle,  and  that  the  insoluble  protein  composes 
approximately  one-half  of  the  total  protein  of  the  muscles  of  the  cow, 
calf,  and  rabbit.  In  addition  to  variation  with  concentration,  with  the 
number  of  extractions,  and  with  different  salts,  the  solubility  varies  with 
pH.  In  general  the  proteins  are  less  soluble  at  the  isoelectric  point. 

The  plasma  proteins  undergo  denaturation  by  heat,  acids,  and  surface 
orientation.  That  the  lactate  ion  affects  the  extent  of  denaturation  and 
the  resulting  density  of  myosin  and  albumen  has  been  mentioned  in 
Chapter  I.  Still  greater  changes  are  brought  about  by  heat  when  the  meat 
is  cooked.  In  meat  not  only  myosin  and  myogen  may  be  found,  but  also 
denatured  myosin  and  denatured  myogen.  In  cooked  meats  these  proteins 
may  be  entirely  denatured. 

Isoelectric  point  of  muscle  proteins.  Smith  gives  the  isoelectric  point 
of  myosin  as  pH  5.0-5.3  and  that  of  myogen  as  pH  6.3.  Burns  has  given  the 
isoelectric  point  of  myosin  at  pH  3.9  and  that  for  the  myoproteins  at  pH 
4.5  and  5. 

Post-Mortem  Changes  in  Meat 

Immediately  after  slaughter,  changes  occur  in  the  muscle  of  an  animal. 
These  changes,  like  the  changes  in  milk  and  eggs,  can  be  retarded  by 
method  of  handling  and  storage.  They  are  brought  about  by  enzymes  and 
microorganisms,  and  by  chemical  and  physical  means  which  alter  the  struc- 
ture and  chemical  composition  of  the  meat. 

Muscle  in  the  living  animal  is  (1)  pliant,  soft,  gel-like,  yet  somewhat 
viscous.  After  slaughter  the  muscles  pass  from  this  state  into  a  stiff  or 
rigid  one   (2)   known  as  rigor  mortis,  or  muscle  rigor.  After  some  time 


212  MEAT 

the  muscles  again  become  pliant.  This  stage  (3)  is  known  as  the  passing 
of  rigor.  With  longer  storage  enzymes  and  chemical  means  bring  about 
(4)  more  extensive  changes  which  produce  ripened  meat.  With  bacterial 
action  and  still  more  extensive  changes  (5)  incipient  putrefaction  occurs. 
The  passage  from  one  stage  to  another  is  gradual  with  no  definite  dividing 
zone  and  is  accelerated  at  higher  temperatures  and  retarded  at  lower  ones. 

Meat  may  be  cooked  during  any  of  these  stages  and  heat  denaturation 
causes  characteristic  changes  which  are  part  of  the  post-mortem  changes. 
Means  of  retarding  these  changes  will  be  considered  before  these  changes 
are  discussed. 

Meat  cooked  before  the  onset  of  rigor  is  said  to  be  tender.  But  rigor 
develops  quickly  so  that  this  period  is  short.  Concerning  the  question  of 
tenderness  of  meat  before  the  onset  of  rigor,  Dr.  Trowbridge,  who  has 
had  many  years  of  experience  in  meat  work,  wrote  the  author,  **I  doubt  if 
freshly  killed  meat  is  ever  as  tender  as  the  same  meat  ripened." 

Preservation  of  meat.  Freezing.  Meat  may  be  frozen  and  then 
stored  at  temperatures  of  —10°  to  — 15°F.  In  this  way  the  post-mortem 
changes  are  nearly  inhibited. 

Curing.  Common  salt  is  the  basis  of  all  cures  or  pickles.  Although  many 
modifications  are  used,  the  methods  may  be  divided  into  two  classes,  brine 
and  dry-salt  cures.  Salt  not  only  preserves  but  tends  to  dry  the  meat.  Sugar 
may  be  added  for  flavor.  Sugar  also  tends  to  keep  the  muscles  softer  than 
when  salt  is  used  alcne  and  thus  tends  to  increase  the  tenderness.  When 
sugar  is  added  to  the  brine,  the  process  is  known  as  ''sugar  cure"  or  "sweet 
pickle."  Saltpeter  (potassium  nitrate)  or  Chili  saltpeter  (sodium  nitrate) 
or  the  nitrite  salts  of  potassium  and  sodium  may  be  used  in  cured  meat. 
The  red  color  of  cured  meat  is  due  to  the  action  of  nitrite  on  the  hemo- 
globin of  the  muscle.  If  only  nitrate  salts  are  used  in  the  brine,  they  are 
reduced  to  nitrite  by  bacterial  action. 

Cured  meat  may  be  smoked  and  partially  dried  on  the  surface.  Actual 
smoke  and  not  chemical  treatment  to  produce  a  smoke  flavor  must  be  used 
in  establishments  under  federal  inspection. 

Ham,  bacon,  and  salt  pork  are  probably  the  best  known  of  cured  pork 
products.  The  loins  when  cured  are  often  known  as  Canadian  bacon. 

Dried  or  chipped  beef  and  corned  beef  are  among  the  more  familiar 
cured-beef  products.  Beef  cured  in  a  brine  is  known  as  corned  beef.  Beef 
cuts  most  often  cured  are  the  plates,  flanks,  and  rumps,  though  from  the 
lower  grades  the  chucks  and  rounds  are  often  used.  Dried  beef  is  cured  in 
a  sweet  pickle,  then  dried  and  smoked.  Usually  the  rounds  and  sometimes 
the  shoulder  clods  are  used  for  dried  beef. 

Cold  storage.  The  passing  of  rigor,  ripening,  and  development  of 
putrefaction  are  delayed  by  quickly  chilling  the  dressed  meat  and  keeping 
it  at  a  low  temperature  just  above  the  freezing  point  of  meat.  Moran  states 
that  if  the  dressed  meat  is  chilled  slowly  more  protein  is  denatured  than  if 
it  is  chilled  quickly,  and,  because  bacteria  attack  denaturated  protein  more 


STORAGE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME  213 

rapidly  than  native  protein,  quick  chilling  is  one  means  of  increasing  the 
storage  life  of  meat. 

Chemically  conditioned  cold.  Moran  states  that  with  temperature  con- 
trol alone  the  storage  life  of  chilled  beef  is  about  35  to  40  days.  If,  in 
addition  to  low  temperature  control,  what  is  sometimes  known  as  ^'chem- 
ically  conditioned  cold,"  i.e.,  10  per  cent  of  carbon  dioxide,  is  used  in  the 
storage  atmosphere,  the  storage  life  of  the  meat  may  be  extended  to  60  or  70 
days.  The  carbon  dioxide  retards  or  checks  bacterial  growth  but  if  too 
much  is  used  with  red  meats  such  as  beef  and  mutton,  the  surface  of  the 
meat  turns  dark.  This  is  because  of  the  decreased  amount  of  oxygen  ob- 
tained by  the  meat  when  carbon  dioxide  is  increased.  For  fish  a  higher 
percentage  of  carbon  dioxide  can  be  used.  Stansby  and  Griffith  have  re- 
ported that  haddock  packed  in  ice  and  plus  an  atmosphere  of  15  to  40  per 
cent  of  carbon  dioxide  have  their  storage  life  doubled  over  that  when 
packed  in  ice  alone. 

Contamination  with  bacteria  and  storage  life.  Another  factor  affecting 
the  storage  life  of  meat  is  the  initial  contamination  with  bacteria.  But  with 
care  the  initial  contamination  should  be  small.  Other  things  being  equal, 
the  smaller  the  initial  load  of  bacteria  the  longer  the  storage  life  of  the 
meat.  Spoilage  by  bacteria,  yeasts,  and  molds  is  largely  surface,  and  in 
general  does  not  extend  to  a  greater  depth  than  ^  to  ^  inch.  Hoagland, 
McBryde,  and  Powick  in  their  investigations  of  changes  in  beef  during 
cold  storage  above  freezing  found  that  "bacteria  and  molds  grow  on  the 
surface  of  cold  storage  carcasses  but  do  not  penetrate  to  any  great  depth 
(less  than  1  inch  in  177  da3^s)." 

Microorganisms  may  enter  the  meat  by  penetration  from  the  surface, 
which  is  a  slow  process,  and  by  following  the  cavities  in  meat,  that  is,  the 
blood  and  lymph  vessels. 

Empey  found  that  bacteria  grow  and  develop  very  slowly  on  meat  during 
rigor,  as  a  /»H  of  approximately  5.3  to  5.6  is  not  a  desirable  one  for  their 
growth.  Stansby  and  Griffith  also  found  that  bacteria  do  not  develop  rapidly 
on  fish  during  rigor. 

Humidity.  Mueller  and  Richardson  have  reported  that  dry  air  as  well 
as  the  low  temperature  is  a  factor  in  preventing  bacterial  growth.  Hoag- 
land,  McBryde,  and  Powick  found  that  in  a  cooler  with  low  humidity  the 
growth  of  mold  on  the  surface  of  the  meat  at  177  days  was  no  greater  than 
in  a  cooler  with  higher  humidity  at  53  days. 

Storage  of  meat  in  the  home.  Proper  storage  of  meat  in  the  home 
is  often  a  problem.  Halves  and  quarters  of  dressed  animals  have  a  natural 
protective  skin  covering.  But  when  wholesale  cuts  are  divided  into  smaller 
parts,  the  surface  area  for  contamination  and  the  contamination  both  in- 
crease from  these  cut  surfaces  coming  in  contact  with  meat  blocks,  hands, 
wrapping  paper,  and  kitchen  and  refrigerator  utensils.  In  general,  unless 
frozen,  meat  should  not  be  stored  long  in  the  home.  Low  temperatures  and 


214  MEAT 

dry  circulating  air  increase  the  storage  life  of  meat.  Burnett  found  roasts 
keep  best,  steaks  and  chops  next,  and  ground  meat  most  poorly. 

Rigor.  During  rigor  meat  is  less  tender  than  after  the  passage  of  rigor, 
so  that  rigor  is  of  interest  in  meat  cookery. 

Cause.  The  exact  cause  for  the  development  of  rigor  is  not  known. 
Hardy  has  suggested  that  two  reversible  reactions  occurring  in  living 
muscle,  namely,  glycogen  ^  lactic  acid  and  phosphagen  ^  phosphoric  acid 
and  creatine,  are  no  longer  reversible  and  after  death  proceed  in  one  direc- 
tion with  the  accumulation  of  lactic  acid  and  creatine  in  the  tissues. 

Lactic  acid  has  some  role  in  the  development  of  rigor,  as  rigor  is  usually 
accompanied  by  or  preceded  by  increase  in  lactic  acid.  But,  Moran  states, 
under  certain  conditions,  i.e.,  if  an  animal  has  been  treated  with  insulin  or 
iodoacetic,  rigor  develops  without  the  production  of  lactic  acid.  He  also 
adds  that  there  are  a  number  of  chemical  reactions  which  take  place  at 
death  that  have  not  been  defined  and  among  them  will  be  found  the  cause 
or  stimulus  leading  to  the  changes  in  the  state  of  the  proteins. 

Time  of  onset  of  rigor.  At  ordinary  temperatures  rigor  is  usually  com- 
plete in  10  to  12  hours.  Rigor  is  supposed  to  develop  more  slowly  at  lower 
and  more  rapidly  at  higher  temperatures.  But  Smith  found  the  effect  of 
temperature  on  the  rate  of  onset  of  rigor  to  be  variable. 

Only  skeletal  muscles  develop  rigor.  The  proportion  of  soluble  protein 
is  sometimes  given  as  an  explanation  of  why  some  muscles  develop  a  greater 
degree  of  rigor  than  others.  Skeletal  muscles  contain  a  higher  percentage  of 
soluble  proteins  than  smooth  muscles.  The  carcass  of  the  pig  generally  does 
not  develop  rigor,  but  occasionally  one  does.  It  is  therefore  interesting 
to  surmise  whether  this  is  due  to  a  small  proportion  of  soluble  protein  or 
to  other  causes. 

H  there  is  more  lactic  acid  than  usual  in  the  muscle  of  the  animal  when 
killed,  as  happens  when  an  animal  is  hunted  or  a  chicken  is  chased  before 
killing,  rigor  sets  in  more  quickly.  Benson  has  reported  that  rigor  sets  in 
more  rapidly  in  fatigued  fish  muscle  (trawl-caught)  than  in  the  muscle  of 
fish  taken  from  a  pen. 

Changes  occurring  during  rigor.  In  addition  to  the  development  of 
turgidity,  other  changes  occur  simultaneously,  for  enzyme  action  does  not 
cease  at  the  time  of  slaughter.  There  is  evolution  of  heat  known  as  the 
heat  of  rigor.  The  glycogen  practically  disappears  from  the  tissues  and 
this  glycogen  loss  parallels  the  lactic  acid  increase.  Moran  states  that  for 
mammalian  muscle  the  lactic  acid  reaches  a  value  of  approximately  0.8  per 
cent.  The  pH  of  the  muscle  falls  from  pH  7.2  or  7.4  to  about  pK  5.6  or 
5.8,  sometimes  as  low  as  />H  5.3.  Because  of  various  factors,  such  as 
amount  of  glycogen  to  form  lactic  acid,  the  p\l  reached  during  rigor  varies 
somewhat. 

It  had  previously  been  found  without  exception  that  the  amount  of 
soluble  protein  is  decreased  during  rigor;  but  Smith  found  no  change  in 
solubility  of  the  proteins  in  his  investigation. 


RIPENED  MEAT  215 

Passing  of  rigor  from  muscles.  After  a  lapse  of  time  rigor  passes  off. 
The  length  of  time  varies  with  the  speed  with  which  rigor  developed,  with 
different  conditions  and  temperatures  of  storage,  and  with  different  animals. 
It  may  require  5  to  6  days  or  longer  at  refrigeration  temperature  and  a 
shorter  period  at  higher  temperatures.  It  passes  more  rapidly  from  a  carcass 
in  which  rigor  develops  early.  With  the  passing  of  rigor  the  muscles  be- 
come more  soft  and  flexible.  One  observation  that  the  author's  family  often 
made  was  that  chickens  killed  and  stored  before  cooking  over  night  in  the 
cellar  were  more  tender  than  chickens  cooked  and  eaten  the  same  day  they 
were  killed.  The  temperature  of  the  cellar  was  higher  than  that  of  a 
refrigerator,  and  the  chickens  were  often  chased  before  killing;  these  fac- 
tors probably  affected  the  time  required  for  the  passing  of  rigor. 

The  greatest  physical  change  with  passing  of  rigor  is  the  increasing 
tenderness  of  the  meat. 

Ripened  meat.  Noticeable  changes  that  characterize  ripened  meat, 
meat  from  w^hich  rigor  has  passed  and  which  has  stood  some  time,  are 
increased  tenderness,  change  in  flavor,  and  increased  ease  with  which  juice 
may  be  pressed  from  the  meat.  The  last  is  probably  related  to  the  increased 
juiciness  of  the  cooked,  ripened  meat. 

Emmett  and  Grindley  have  reviewed  the  literature  on  changes  in  meat 
during  storage.  The  report  of  the  work  of  Grassman  is  from  their  summary. 

In  experiments  reported  by  Hoagland  et  a!.,  for  beef  stored  just  above 
the  freezing  point  of  the  meat  from  17  to  177  days,  it  is  interesting  to  note 
that  all  judges  agreed  that  the  flavor  and  tenderness  of  the  meat  are  im- 
proved with  15  to  30  days  of  storage.  With  storage  for  45  days  and  longer, 
they  speak  of  an  "old,"  "gamey,"  and  "off"  flavor.  From  the  comments 
one  is  led  to  believe  that  they  like  the  meat  stored  for  56  days  better  than 
that  stored  for  45  days.  This  was  probably  due  to  differences  in  the  char- 
acter of  the  quarters  of  beef  from  different  animals.  With  longer  storage 
the  flavor  was  not  palatable,  "old"  and  "off"  being  used  to  describe  the 
flavor  developed. 

Grassman  has  reported  ripened  meat  as  being  more  juicy,  of  better  flavor, 
and  more  tender  than  unripened  meat.  He  adds  that  ripening  meat  to  the 
extent  preferred  by  the  English  for  roasting  is  not  good  for  boiling,  as  it 
imparts  a  disagreeable  flavor  to  the  broth. 

Whether  one  prefers  the  flavor  of  ripened  meat  or  that  of  fresh  meat 
is  largely  a  matter  of  personal  choice.  It  is  hard  to  describe  the  flavor  of 
ripened  meat,  probably  because  there  are  no  descriptive  terms  which  convey 
the  same  meaning  to  different  people.  Ripened  meat  is  more  acid,  is  richer 
in  flavor,  and  has  more  of  a  high  or  game  flavor.  Ripening  may  also 
improve  the  flavor  of  the  fat  of  the  beef.  The  fat  from  some  animals 
develops  a  better  flavor  with  ripening  than  that  of  other  animals.  When 
it  is  improved,  the  flavor  of  the  fat  is  more  agreeable  and  more  mellow. 
However,  the  kind  of  feed  the  animal  has  received,  as  well  as  the  age,  sex. 


216  MEAT 

breed  of  animal,  and  the  amount  of  fat  may  influence  the  flavor  of  the 
meat  and  the  fat. 

Length  of  time  required  for  ripening.  The  length  of  time  required  for 
ripening  varies  according  to  the  degree  of  ripened  flavor  desired,  and  the 
temperature  at  which  the  meat  is  stored.  As  the  temperature  is  elevated  the 
time  for  ripening  is  shortened.  At  temperatures  a  little  above  the  freezing 
point  of  meat,  20  to  40  days  seems  to  give  the  optimum  flavor.  Longer 
than  40  days  gives  too  high  a  flavor  for  most  persons.  Helser  says,  "When 
ripened  meat  is  properly  trimmed  and  prepared  there  will  be  no  mold  flavor 
at  all,  but  you  will  have  a  rich,  juicy,  tender,  and  w^ell-flavored  piece  of 
meat.  One  trial  will  convince  anyone." 

Finished  carcasses  are  best  for  ripening.  Helser  states  that  well-finished 
carcasses  are  best  suited  for  ripening  purposes.  Meat  from  carcasses  of 
animals  that  contain  little  fat  "will  get  sticky,  mold,  and  will  have  to  be 
trimmed  heavily  to  avoid  the  moldy  flavor."  The  layer  of  fat  on  the  outside 
of  the  prime  beef  and  the  greater  quantity  of  fat  in  the  muscle  fibers  pre- 
vent the  putrefactive  bacteria  from  developing.  Ripened  meat  develops  a 
growth  of  mold  on  the  surface  of  the  meat  that  must  be  removed  before 
cooking.  Helser  states:  "The  degree  of  ripeness  is  judged  largely  by  the 
length  of  the  'whiskers,'  as  the  mold  is  sometimes  called." 

Changes  in  cooked  beef  due  to  ripening.  Helser,  Nelson,  and  Lowe  have 
found  that  roasts  from  the  same  animal,  refrigerated  under  the  same  con- 
ditions, show  several  distinct  changes  in  cooking  from  that  of  fresh  beef. 
All  the  roasts  were  cooked  at  the  same  oven  temperature  and  to  the  same 
interior  temperature.  Roasts  cooked  after  10,  20,  40,  and  60  days  of  storage 
show  a  progressively  gray  color  in  the  interior  of  the  cooked  roasts.  Roasts 
cooked  to  an  inner  temperature  of  57°C.  and  cooked  on  the  fifth,  seventh, 
and  tenth  days  of  storage  were  a  bright  red  color ;  w^hereas  those  ripened 
60  days  have  only  a  little  red  or  rose  color.  Roasts  from  calves  are  less  red 
and  more  gray  in  color  than  roasts  from  older  animals. 

Roasts  from  ripened  beef  brown  more  readily — and  this  is  true  for  both 
the  fat  and  lean — than  unripened  roasts  from  the  same  animal,  cooked 
under  the  same  conditions.  In  these  experiments  the  results  of  scores  for 
palatability  indicate  that  "in  order  to  produce  beef  for  roasts  having  the 
most  desirable  beef  flavor,  steers  should  be  at  least  20  months  old,  and 
preferably  30." 

After  the  passing  of  rigor  the  roasts  are  more  tender  and  become  in- 
creasingly tender  with  length  of  storage.  Although  the  tenderness  of  the 
meat  increases  with  storage,  the  increase  after  20  days  of  storage  is  prob- 
ably not  great  enough  to  pay  for  the  increased  cost  and  trouble  of  storing. 

With  longer  storage  the  roasts  are  more  juicy.  Also  with  ripening  the 
quantity  of  juice  collecting  in  the  platter  when  the  roast  is  carved  is  de- 
cidedly greater  than  for  roasts  cooked  after  10  days  or  less  than  10  days 
of  storage. 

The   flavor   of   the    beef    improved   with    ripening,    and    the    maximum 


CHANGES  OCCURRING  IN  MEAT  217 

development  of  flavor,  under  the  refrigeration  conditions  used,  came  with 
20  to  40  days  of  storage.  For  the  connoisseur  of  flavor,  this  improved  flavor 
is  decidedly  worth  the  cost  of  storage. 

Incipient  putrefaction.  Much  discussion  has  occurred  concerning  the 
presence  of  bacteria  within  muscle.  Moran  states  that  in  freshly  killed 
muscle  there  is  usually  a  low  bacterial  count.  Hoagland,  McBryde,  and 
Powick  found  that  certain  bacteria  may  normally  be  present  in  some 
carcasses  of  beef,  but  they  possessed  no  pathological  significance  and  did 
not  multiply  in  proper  cold-storage  conditions.  At  low-storage  tempera- 
tures, spoilage  by  bacteria  is  most  prevalent  at  the  surface  of  the  meat. 
As  has  been  indicated,  growth  is  slow  during  rigor,  for  the  acidity  of  the 
meat  does  not  favor  the  development  of  microorganisms.  But  with  in- 
creased storage  of  meat,  the  acidity  of  the  meat  is  lessened  or  the  alkalinity 
increases  and  ammonia  is  liberated. 

Of  the  different  tests  proposed  for  the  detection  of  incipient  putrefaction. 
Baker  believes  that  the  determination  of  ammonical  nitrogen  has  been  the 
most  useful  and  the  presence  of  0.02-0.025  per  cent  indicates  the  beginning 
of  putrefaction.  Thus  Baker  suggests  that,  when  the  pH  has  risen  to  />H 
6.2  the  meat  has  undergone  deterioration. 

Changes  occurring  in  meat  during  storage.  Changes  due  to 
enzymes.  The  lipolytic,  amylolytic,  and  proteolytic  enzymes  act  on  fats, 
carbohydrates,  and  proteins,  respectively.  During  life,  these  and  other 
enzymes  are  concerned  with  the  metabolic  processes  of  the  body. 

Enzyme  changes  are  usually  brought  about  more  rapidly  with  higher 
temperatures.  At  very  low  temperatures  the  action  may  be  very  slow  and 
different  from  that  at  higher  temperatures  owing  to  differenes  in  activity 
of  different  enzymes  at  different  temperatures.  Hoagland,  McBryde,  and 
Powick  have  reported  that  the  external  fat  and  kidney  fat  in  beef  stored 
just  above  the  freezing  point  of  the  meat  showed  increased  fatty  acid  con- 
tent and  a  corresponding  deterioration  of  these  fats.  They  found  less 
change  in  the  intramuscular  fat,  as  it  was  protected  from  bacterial  action, 
and  changes  in  it  were  due  to  lipase  enzymes.  Oxidative  changes  in  fats 
are  of  course  greater  in  the  surface  fat.  The  surface  fat  in  ripened  meat 
often  shows  greater  changes  in  flavor  than  interior  fat. 

Amylolytic  enzymes  bring  about  the  change  of  glycogen  to  lactic  acid. 
These  changes  occur  rather  early  in  storage. 

Proteolytic  enzymes  bring  about  changes  of  the  proteins  to  amino  acids, 
thus  increasing  the  amino  nitrogen,  or  the  non-protein  nitrogen,  or  the 
soluble  nitrogen  products  of  the  meat.  Hoagland,  McBryde,  and  Powick 
found  that,  in  quarters  of  beef  stored  14  to  177  days,  the  increase  in  amino 
nitrogen  amounted  to  3  to  7  per  cent  of  the  total  nitrogen  of  the  beef. 

Autolytic  changes  in  beef  at  31°. C.  Hoagland,  McBryde,  and  Powick 
stored  pieces  of  beef  free  from  bacteria  in  sterile  containers  at  a  tempera- 
ture of  37 °C.  for  periods  of  7  to  100  days.  Considerable  juice  exuded  from 
the  pieces  of  meat,  which  turned  brown  in  color.  The  beef  was  also  brown 


218  MEAT 

on  the  surface  for  about  %  inch  in  depth,  except  where  it  touched  the 
container,  and  this  was  bright  pink  in  color.  Hoagland  has  reported  that 
this  deep  pink  to  a  purplish-red  color  is  due  to  hematoporphyrin.  Its  forma- 
tion is  attributed  to  enzymes.  The  meat  retained  its  original  form;  the 
sample  stored  100  days  was  somewhat  more  tender  than  the  one  stored 
7  days.  The  changes  in  the  meat  that  could  be  detected  by  the  senses  of 
sight,  smell,  and  taste  they  called  organoleptic  changes.  The  odor  changed 
with  increasing  age.  This  change  they  describe  as  "rather  old  but  not 
unpleasant."  The  broiled  103-day  sample  of  meat  "is  quite  tender  and  has 
an  old,  highly  acid,  and  rather  disagreeable  flavor,  which  persists  in  the 
mouth  after  eating;  the  meat  is  not  entirely  objectionable  but  is  not 
appetizing."  In  ordinary  storage  conditions  meat  cannot  be  kept  free  from 
bacteria  and  is  not  stored  at  such  a  high  temperature. 

Chemical  changes.  In  storage  of  meat  the  changes  due  to  different 
factors  such  as  bacteria,  enzymes,  etc.,  are  brought  about  simultaneously. 
The  chemical  changes  are  the  changes  in  the  percentage  of  the  different 
constituents  of  the  meat,  however  these  may  be  brought  about.  Stored  meat 
usually  loses  weight  by  reason  of  moisture  loss.  The  acidity  increases. 
Emmett  and  Grindley  found  that  beef  refrigerated  22  days  compared 
with  meat  from  the  same  animal  refrigerated  2  days  at  33°  to  35°F.,  "(1) 
had  lost  no  water,  (2)  that  the  percentage  of  water  soluble  solids,  the 
soluble,  insoluble  and  total  protein,  the  non-coagulable  protein,  the  nitrog- 
enous and  total  organic  extractives,  the  forms  of  ash,  the  total  nitrogen 
and  the  total  phosphorus  all  remained  practically  unchanged.  (3)  That 
the  only  consistent  real  changes  were  a  distinct  increase  in  the  total  soluble 
and  the  soluble  inorganic  phosphorus,  being  8.0  and  17.9  per  cent  respec- 
tively, and  a  decrease  of  8.3  per  cent  in  the  non-nitrogenous  organic 
extractives.  (4)  The  nutritive  value  of  the  meat  was  unaltered."  After 
refrigeration  for  43  days  the  chemical  changes  in  the  meat  were  greater 
in  number  than  those  for  the  22-day  sample.  When  allowance  was  made 
for  the  moisture  loss  they  found  a  definite  increase  in  the  soluble  dry 
substance,  the  nitrogenous,  non-nitrogenous,  and  total  organic  extractives, 
the  total  soluble  nitrogen,  and  the  soluble  inorganic  phosphorus.  There  was 
a  slight  increase  in  the  soluble  coagulable  and  total  soluble  protein  nitrogen 
and  in  the  insoluble  and  total  nitrogen. 

They  found  the  cooked  meats  from  the  43-day  refrigerated  sample  higher 
in  water  content,  therefore  juicier,  than  the  6-day  refrigerated  sample. 
From  comparisons  of  other  losses  that  occurred  in  the  cooked  43-day 
sample  they  concluded  that  it  was  as  nutritious  as  that  from  the  cooked 
6-day  refrigerated  meat. 

Changes  in  Cooked  Meat  and  the  Cooking  of  Meat 

Meat  is  cooked  to  sterilize  it  and  for  most  persons  to  make  it  more 
palatable.  It  should  be  cooked  in  such  a  way  as  to  increase  its  tenderness 


JUICINESS  219 

if  it  is  a  tough  cut,  and  to  keep  it  tender  if  it  is  a  tender  cut.  It  is  desirable 
in  cooking  meat  to  have  maximum  tenderness  of  both  fibers  and  connective 
tissue,  so  that  the  meat  carves  well  and  cuts  easily.  Meat  cooked  so  long, 
or  at  such  a  high  temperature  that  the  connective  tissue  is  dissolved,  is  not 
attractive  and  the  fibers  are  tough  and  stringy.  As  a  general  rule,  it  should 
be  cooked  in  such  a  way  as  to  retain  its  nutritive  value,  i.e.,  to  prevent 
cooking  losses  to  as  great  an  extent  as  possible,  either  dripping  losses  or 
destruction  of  some  food  constituents  by  heat.  When  the  drippings  are 
used  in  gravy  or  other  ways  this  loss  is  not  a  serious  one. 

The  flavor  and  the  tenderness  of  the  cooked  meat  depend  to  a  great 
degree  upon  the  quality  of  the  meat  before  cooking,  for  cooking  cannot 
make  a  well-flavored  piece  of  meat  from  one  of  poor  quality  and  flavor, 
nor  does  it  always  produce  a  tender  piece  of  meat.  However,  the  method 
and  length  of  time  of  cooking  may  and  often  do  spoil  a  good  piece  of  meat, 
yet  the  method  of  cooking  may  improve  a  poor  piece  of  meat. 

Browning  and  thoroughly  cooking  meat  develop  a  different  flavor,  just 
as  cooking  cabbage  a  long  time  develops  a  characteristic  flavor.  Many  per- 
sons prefer  the  development  of  this  flavor. 

Coagulation  of  proteins.  The  heat  renders  the  soluble  proteins  of 
meat  insoluble,  the  extent  of  denaturation  depending  on  the  stage  of 
cookery  or  temperature  reached,  the  time  held  at  this  temperature,  the  />H 
of  the  meat,  its  salt  content,  its  degree  of  ripeness,  and  probably  other 
factors.  The  higher  the  temperature  reached  and  the  longer  the  meat  is 
held  at  this  temperature,  the  greater  the  denaturation.  The  relation  of  />H 
to  denaturation  has  been  considered  in  Chapter  I.  With  increased  denatura- 
tion the  meat  becomes  firmer  and  denser,  with  shrinkage  in  volume. 

Formation  o£  gelatin.  After  the  meat  is  heated  in  a  moist  atmosphere 
to  a  definite  temperature  for  a  sufficient  time  the  connective  tissue  dissolves. 
If  the  concentration  of  gelatin  in  the  liquid  reaches  1.5  or  higher  percent- 
ages, it  forms  a  jelly  when  cooled.  Connective  tissue  is  composed  largely  of 
collagen.  Collagen  is  changed  to  gelatin  more  rapidly  at  higher  tempera- 
tures. Smith  states  that  the  phosphate  ion  accelerates  the  rate  at  which 
collagen  is  changed  to  gelatin  at  a  given  temperature.  The  addition  of  acid 
to  meat  may  also  increase  the  rate  of  hydrolysis  of  collagen. 

Juiciness.  Juiciness  is  given  as  a  desirable  quality  of  cooked  meat.  Meat 
loses  moisture  during  cooking,  even  when  cooked  submerged  in  water.  The 
higher  the  interior  temperature  to  which  the  meat  is  cooked,  if  the  composi- 
tion and  cooking  conditions  are  standardized,  the  less  moist  the  meat.  Meat 
that  contains  a  large  amount  of  fat  within  and  around  the  muscle  fibers 
may  seem  juicy  because  of  melting  of  the  fat  by  heat  in  cooking.  The  fibers 
with  a  high  fat  content  may  also  have  a  high  water  content,  particularly 
if  part  of  the  fat  is  in  an  emulsion  that  will  not  break  with  high  tempera- 
tures, thus  retaining  part  of  the  moisture. 

Some  pieces  of  meat  are  apparently  far  more  juicy  than  others  after 


220  MEAT 

cooking.  It  seems  rather  certain  from  the  results  of  Hoagland  et  al.,  Grass- 
man,  and  others,  that  the  increase  of  amino  nitrogen  with  aging  is  one 
factor  in  bringing  this  about.  The  amino  acids  may  not  be  able  to  bind  as 
much  water  as  the  protein,  so  that  the  free  water  content  and  apparent 
juiciness  may  be  increased  with  increase  of  amino  nitrogen.  Sometimes  the 
juiciness  seems  to  be  related  to  the  fat  content.  How  great  an  influence 
the  method  of  distribution  of  the  fat  within  the  fiber,  the  salt  content  of 
the  fiber,  the  pH,  or  the  development  and  maturity  of  the  fiber  have  upon 
this  point  cannot  be  stated.  The  tissues  of  old  animals  lose  their  power  to 
bind  as  much  w^ater  as  tissues  from  younger  animals.  Although  this  may 
partially  explain  the  better  quality  of  meat  from  younger  animals  it  does 
not  explain  why  veal  is  less  juicy  than  baby  beeves.  Perhaps,  if  the  water 
is  bound  too  tightly  by  the  coagulable  protein  micelles,  the  dryness  is  more 
apparent  to  the  tactile  sense. 

Child  and  Fogarty  found  that  approximately  1 1  per  cent  more  fluid 
could  be  pressed  from  one  semitendinosus  muscle  when  heated  to  an  in- 
terior temperature  of  58°C.  than  for  the  other  semitendinosus  muscle  from 
the  same  animal  heated  to  75°C. 

Noble,  Halliday,  and  Klaas  found :  "When  subjected  to  a  pressure  of 
3,800  pounds  per  square  inch,  the  ribs  cooked  to  61  °C.  yielded  more  juice 
than  those  heated  to  75 °C.  and  the  round  more  than  the  corresponding 
ribs.  The  larger  quantity  of  juice  was  found  to  be  richer  in  solids,  total 
nitrogen,  and,  in  one  case,  also  richer  in  coagulable  nitrogen." 

Empey  states  that  for  uncooked  meat  there  is  a  direct  relationship  be- 
tween the  hydrogen-ion  concentration  of  the  muscle  fiber  and  its  capacity 
for  holding  muscle  fluid,  but  the  author  knows  of  no  work  in  which 
juiciness  of  cooked  meat  has  been  related  to  /)H. 

Change  in  color.  During  the  heating  of  meat,  after  a  temperature  of 
about  50°C.  is  reached,  the  color  gradually  changes  from  red  or  pink  to  a 
lighter  shade  and  finally,  if  a  sufficiently  high  temperature  is  reached,  be- 
comes brown  or  gray.  Veal  and  pork  are  more  gray,  beef  and  lamb  develop 
a  browner  shade.  This  color  change  has  been  discussed  in  connection  with 
meat  pigments,  the  oxyhemoglobin  being  broken  down  by  heat  to  the  brown 
hematin.  The  degree  of  ripeness  of  the  meat  affects  the  temperature  at 
which  the  color  change  occurs,  ripened  meat  becoming  gray  at  a  lower 
temperature. 

The  extreme  browning  on  the  surface  of  meat  is  accompanied  by  break- 
down of  surface  proteins  and  fat,  probably  with  liberation  of  sulfur  and 
other  compounds. 

Tenderness.  Methods  of  estimating.  Tenderness  is  one  quality  uni- 
versally desired  in  cooked  meats.  Tenderness  may  be  estimated  by  subjective 
methods  such  as  the  ease  of  cutting  or  chewing.  At  present  the  most  widely 
used  method  for  comparing  the  tenderness  of  meat  is  the  grading  chart. 
The  chart  developed  by  the  Cooking  Committee  of  the  National  Project, 


TENDERNESS 


221 


"Cooperative  Meat  Investigations,"  uses  seven  numbers  and  terms  to 
designate  the  tenderness  of  the  sample.  They  are:  very  tender,  tender, 
moderately  tender,  slightly  tough,  tough,  very  tough,  and  extremely  tough. 
Each  judge  forms  his  own  standards  from  the  basis  of  his  experience.  If  the 
judge  has  had  a  complete  range  of  qualities  on  which  to  base  his  standards 
and  is  consistent  in  adhering  to  them,  he  may  become  very  proficient  in 
judging  comparative  tenderness. 

Numerous  mechanical  devices  have  been  devised  for  estimating  the  ten- 
derness of  meat.  The  ones  most  commonly  used  at  present  are :  ( 1 )  the 
shearing  apparatus,  which  registers  the  number  of  pounds  required  to  shear 
a  piece  of  meat  of  a  given  diameter;  (2)  the  penetrometer,  with  which  a 
specially  constructed  needle  may  be  used;  and  (3)  a  puncturing  gage. 

Results  of  tenderness  tests.  There  has  been  considerable  discussion  as  to 
whether  raw  meat  is  tenderer  or  tougher  than  the  same  meat  when  cooked, 
which  to  date  has  not  been  settled.  Moran  and  Smith,  after  studying  the 
effect  of  ripening  on  tenderness  of  beef,  say:  "It  is  a  matter  of  general 
experience  amongst  those  accustomed  to  raw  meat  that  cooked  meat  is 
tougher  than  raw  meat."  They  also  quote  Stefansson  from  "The  Friendly 
Arctic"  as  follows:  "Cooking  increases  the  toughness  and  brings  out  the 
stringiness.  I  have  never  eaten  any  raw  meat  that  was  noticeably  tough  or 
stringy." 

Black,  Warner,  and  Wilson  have  reported  that  cooked  samples  were 
more  tender  than  raw  samples  from  good  and  medium-grade  three-year- 
old  grass-fed  steers  and  steers  fed  both  grain  and  grass.  The  number  of 
steers  in  each  lot  was  eight,  the  number  of  tests  for  raw  and  cooked  meat 
was  12  and  4,  respectively.  Their  results  are  given  in  Table  28. 

TABLE  28 

Shearing  Strength  of  Right  and  Left  Raw  Twelfth-Rib  Samples  and 
Left  Cooked  Eleventh-Rib  Samples  {Blacky  Warner,  and  Wilson) 


Lot  designation 

Shearing 
strength 

raw 
muscle 

lbs. 

Shearing 

strength 

cooked 

muscle 

lbs. 

Good  grade,  grain  on  grass          

72.9 
72.6 
71.7 
78.3 

32  7 

Good  grade,  grass  alone 

39.0 

Medium  grade,  grain  on  grass 

34.9 

Medium  grade,  grass  alone 

38.8 

Noble,   Halliday,   and   Klaas   found   beef  more   tender,   as   tested   by   a 
penetrometer,  when  heated  to  61  °C.  than  to  75 °C. 


222  MEAT 

Lowe  compared  the  penetrometer  and  shearing  apparatus  by  using  both 
tests  to  measure  the  tenderness  of  the  longissimus  dorsi  of  raw  and  cooked 
beef  rib  roasts.  The  roasts  were  used  in  pairs,  one  roast  being  cooked,  the 
other  left  raw.  Both  methods  indicated  raw  meat  to  be  the  tenderest,  the 
rare  intermediate,  and  the  well-done  the  least  tender.  But  penetration 
tests  appear  to  be  influenced  by  the  density  of  the  meat,  the  meat  with 
the  greatest  cooking  losses,  i.e.,  the  well-done,  being  firmest.  Thus  penetra- 
tion tests  indicated  no  difference  in  meat  from  different  animals  when 
there  was  little  difference  in  firmness  but  where  both  the  shearing  tests  and 
grading  score  indicated  a  range  in  tenderness.  The  penetration  depth  was 
greater  in  soft  raw  meat  than  in  firm  cooked  meat,  the  differences  being 
highly  significant.  Shearing  tests  showed  significant  difference  in  the  ten- 
derness of  the  longissimus  dorsi  from  animals  of  varying  grade  and  the 
values  obtained  were  In  agreement  with  the  grading  score.  None  of  the 
correlations  between  penetration  and  shearing  tests  were  significant,  from 
which  it  was  concluded  that  shearing  was  the  better  method  for  measuring 
the  tenderness  of  meat. 

Means  of  increasing  tenderness.  The  possible  ways  of  increasing  the 
tenderness  of  meat  may  be  classed  as  follows:  (1)  mechanical,  (2)  enzyme 
action,  and  (3)  by  peptization  and  increased  solubility  of  the  proteins.  The 
first  Is  a  physical,  the  last  two  would  bring  about  chemical  changes. 

Meat  is  ground  to  break  the  fibers  and  connective  tissue,  which,  because 
it  lessens  the  need  for  chewing,  increases  the  tenderness.  For  very  tough 
cuts  this  is  probably  the  most  satisfactory  procedure.  In  tests  that  have  been 
made,  It  was  found  that  meat,  ground  fine  and  several  times  as  for 
Swedish  Meat  Balls,  is  more  juicy  and  palatable  than  meat  ground  medium 
or  coarse  and  only  once. 

Investigators  have  sought  for  suitable  enzymatic  and  chemical  means  of 
Increasing  tenderness  of  meat  for  years.  The  proteolytic  enzymes  found  in 
the  meat  increase  the  tenderness  but  considerable  time  at  low  storage 
temperatures  is  required.  Hence,  if  a  proteolytic  enzyme  that  would  speed 
up  the  breakdown  of  the  proteins  and  which  would  give  satisfactory  results 
were  found  the  tenderness  of  meat  could  be  increased  in  a  shorter  storage 
period.  Papain  has  been  tried.  The  author's  results  to  date  with  this  enzyme 
have  not  been  satisfactory.  When  it  was  applied  to  the  surface  of  the  meat 
some  time  was  required  for  the  enzyme  to  act  and  then  only  a  thin, 
powdery  surface  layer  vv^as  formed.  When  It  was  applied  just  prior  to  cook- 
ing the  heat  destroyed  the  enzyme,  so  that  its  application  was  of  little  or  no 
value.  No  satisfactory  methods  of  Injecting  this  enzyme  have  been  reported. 
Investigations  that  have  been  reported  in  connection  with  flour  proteins 
suggest  that  It  Is  possible  that  meat  may  contain  substances  that  tend  to 
inhibit  the  action  of  the  proteinases  of  the  meat  and  if  some  salt  that  would 
counteract  this  Inhibition  through  oxidation  or  other  means  could  be  In- 
jected that  the  meat  would  become  tender  more  rapidly. 


TENDERNESS  223 

The  changing  of  collagen  of  the  connective  tissues  or  structural  proteins 
to  gelatin  during  cooking  is  one  means  of  increasing  the  tenderness  of  these 
proteins,  but  the  solubility  of  the  protoplasmic  proteins  decreases  when  they 
are  coagulated  by  heat. 

Another  method  of  increasing  the  tenderness  of  meat  would  be  through 
the  use  of  substances  that  would  peptize  both  or  either  the  connective  or 
protoplasmic  meat  proteins,  thus  increasing  their  solubility  and  the  tender- 
ness of  the  meat.  Means  of  bringing  about  peptization  have  been  discussed 
in  Chapter  I.  Sugar  peptizes  some  proteins.  Many  electrolytes  also  bring 
about  peptization,  particularly  if  mixed  Intimately  with  the  substance  to  be 
peptized.  Anions  of  acids  such  as  tartrate,  citrate,  and  acetate  may  bring 
about  a  greater  or  lesser  degree  of  peptization.  A  practical  peptizer,  if  such 
could  be  found  and  used,  would  be  a  salt  that  could  be  injected  and  have 
slight  effect  at  low  temperatures  but  bring  about  peptization  fairly  rapidly 
when  heated  during  cooking  of  the  meat. 

Smith  states:  "It  is  of  Interest  to  note  that,  in  cases  where  the  primary 
aim  of  cooking  Is  to  make  the  meat  more  tender  (as,  for  Instance,  In 
stewing),  the  required  degree  of  tenderness  can  be  reached  more  quickly 
by  addition  of  phosphate,  or  what  amounts  to  the  same  thing,  since  the  meat 
itself  contains  phosphate,  of  concentrated  stock  from  a  previous  boiling. 
The  concentration  of  phosphate  which  gives  the  greatest  effect  is  about 
0.2M,  but  a  quarter  of  this  will  have  quite  an  appreciable  effect.  A  suitable 
mixture  of  mono-  and  di-hydrogen  phosphates  to  give  a  pH  between  6  and 
7  was  employed." 

Meat  is  sometimes  placed  in  a  pickle  of  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water 
and  is  used  for  Sauerbraten  or  similar  dishes.  Soaking  in  the  acid  is  sup- 
posed to  Increase  the  tenderness  as  well  as  develop  a  particular  flavor  of 
the  meat.  If  the  vinegar  contains  tannins,  the  meat  should  not  be  cooked  in 
an  iron  utensil,  for  a  dark  color  will  develop  from  the  tannins  combining 
with  the  iron.  The  effect  of  the  acid  on  the  meat,  which  will  probably 
depend  upon  the  amount  of  acid  added  and  the  resulting  pH  of  the  meat 
and  whether  this  pH  is  at,  above,  or  below  the  isoelectric  point  of  Its 
proteins,  may  cause  the  connective  tissue  to  swell  and  hydrolyze  the  col- 
lagen to  gelatin  more  rapidly  when  the  meat  Is  heated.  Tomatoes  or  sour 
cream  are  also  added  to  Swiss  steak  and  tomatoes  to  stews.  Sometimes  the 
acid  appears  to  increase  the  tenderness;  but  often  a  paired  cut  without  the 
acid  is  as  tender  or  more  tender  than  the  one  to  which  acid  is  added. 

Baker  states  that  the  lactic  acid  developed  in  the  meat  may  be  responsible 
for  improvement  in  tenderness.  He  says  that  Walsh  investigated  the  develop- 
ment of  acidity  in  lean  beef  and  claims  that  its  formation  is  important  in 
the  preparation  of  canned  meats.  Properly  matured  meat,  after  canning, 
"melts  in  the  mouth,"  the  muscle  fibers  are  softened,  slicabllity  is  enhanced, 
and  the  pink  color  is  more  vivid.  But  in  maturing  or  ripening  changes  are 
also  brought  about  by  enzymes  and  other  means. 


224  MEAT 


Cooking  o£  Frozen  Meat 

Frozen  meat  and  poultry  are  obtainable  in  retail  markets  in  larger  cities. 
In  addition  many  people  freeze  meat  in  mechanical  freezer  units,  and  the 
practise  of  obtaining  compartments  and  freezing  fresh  meat  in  local  cold 
storage  plants  in  rural  and  small  urban  communities  is  increasing  tremen- 
dously. Hence,  the  cooking  of  frozen  meat  attains  importance  and  knowl- 
edge of  what  happens  to  the  meat  during  freezing  gives  understanding  of 
why  it  should  be  cooked  soon  after  defrosting,  if  it  is  defrosted  before 
cooking. 

Freezing.  When  meat  is  frozen,  the  unbound  water  forms  ice  crystals. 
These  crystals  on  thawing,  with  their  dissolved  substances  tend  to  exude 
from  the  cut  surfaces  of  the  meat.  Empey  found  the  drip  from  frozen  and 
thawed  meat  very  similar  in  composition  to  fluid  pressed  from  unfrozen 
meat.  He  found  a  direct  relationship  between  the  hydrogen-ion  concentra- 
tion and  the  capacity  of  the  muscle  to  hold  fluid.  Minimum  drip  occurred 
when  the  pH  of  the  muscles  had  not  dropped  below  6.3.  However,  he  did 
no  work  to  determine  the  tenderness  of  the  meat  in  connection  with  pH  or 
at  what  pH  it  would  be  most  desirable  to  freeze  the  meat  for  quality  and 
palatability  after  cooking.  The  writer's  experience  thus  far  is  that  meat 
that  is  not  tender  before  freezing  does  not  improve  in  tenderness  by  freezing. 
This  would  indicate  that  for  palatable  meat  it  is  preferable  for  meat  to  be 
ripened  sufficiently  before  freezing. 

Meat  may  be  frozen  rapidly  or  slowly.  In  rapid  freezing  the  meat  Is 
subjected  to  a  very  low  temperature  so  that  freezing  occurs  In  a  short  time. 
The  advantage  of  this  method  is  supposed  to  be  due  to  the  fact  that  the  ice 
crystals  have  little  time  to  grow;  hence  they  are  smaller  and  break  the 
fibers  to  a  smaller  extent.  There  Is  considerable  controversy  as  to  which 
is  the  best  procedure.  Moran  says  that  In  their  studies  rapid  freezing 
possessed  no  advantages  over  slow  freezing  as  regarded  the  quality  of  the 
product,  but  that  In  each  case  the  most  important  factor  affecting  the 
quality  was  the  storage  temperature.  Lowe  and  Keltner  found  no  difference 
in  the  quality  of  poultry  frozen  by  rapid  and  slow  methods.  Many  reports 
In  the  literature  Indicate  that  it  Is  preferable  to  keep  the  meat  or  poultry 
at  quite  low  temperatures,  —10°  to  —  15°F.,  to  prevent  desiccation  of 
the  meat.  Tressler  believes  It  Is  desirable  to  have  the  temperature  as  uni- 
form as  possible,  for  a  fluctuating  temperature  also  increases  moisture  loss. 
Each  piece  of  meat  or  bird  should  be  wrapped  to  prevent  moisture  loss. 
Tressler  says,  ''Severe  desiccation  causes  a  considerable  loss  of  flavoring 
components,  and  makes  the  frozen  product  tougher,  less  easily  cooked,  and 
therefore,  less  desirable  for  food." 

Defrosting.  The  method  of  defrosting  seems  to  be  particularly  im- 
portant for  poultry.  Snyder  found  poultry  defrosted  In  water  markedly  less 
desirable  In  flavor  than  poultry  defrosted  in  cold  air,  i.e.,  in  a  refrigerator. 


THE  USE  OF  SALT 


225 


The  method  of  defrosting  was  also  more  important  than  drawing  and  length 
of  storage  period  in  determining  flavor,  although  the  giblets  of  undrawn 
birds  were  not  so  desirable  as  those  of  drawn  birds. 

Many  questions  are  received  from  Iowa  women  regarding  the  flavor  of 
poultry  frozen  and  stored  in  local  plants.  It  is  a  common  practise  for 
these  women  to  defrost  the  poultry  in  water,  but  their  frozen  meat  is 
defrosted  in  cold  air. 

Beef  and  meats  having  extensive  cut  surfaces  of  the  muscles  tend  to 
"drip"  more  than  poultry  after  defrosting.   Since  loss  of  this  fluid  also 


Fig.  23. — Standing  rib  roast  of  beef.  Showing  thermometer  inserted  for  reading 
interior  temperature  of  the  meat. 


results  in  loss  of  flavor  and  nutritive  value,  it  is  desirable  to  cook  the  meat 
soon  after  defrosting  or  even  before  defrosting.  Defrosted  meat  is  also 
more  susceptible  to  bacterial  attack. 

Cooking.  Defrosted  meat  is  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  unfrozen  meat. 
But  if  cooking  is  started  before  the  meat  is  defrosted,  then  the  temperature 
and  time  of  cooking  need  to  be  changed  to  allow  the  meat  both  to  thaw 
and  to  cook.  Otherwise,  a  steak  or  roast  can  be  served  with  a  brown 
appetizing  exterior  and  still  be  frozen  in  the  interior.  The  writer  prefers 
to  start  cooking  all  frozen  steaks  and  chops  before  defrosting,  as  there  is 
then  no  loss  of  fluid  and  flavor.  But  the  meat  is  not  seared.  The  cooking 
temperature  must  be  low  and  the  cooking  time  increased  to  at  least  3  or  4 
times  longer  than  for  unfrozen  meat.  Because  of  the  longer  time  required 
for  thawing  and  cooking  the  exterior  browns  sufficiently  without  searing. 

The  use  of  salt.  There  is  no  advantage  in  salting  large  pieces  of  meat, 


226  MEAT 

as  the  salt  Is  placed  on  the  surface  of  the  meat  and  does  not  penetrate 
to  any  appreciable  extent  during  cooking.  Part  of  the  salt  is  carried  from 
the  surface  of  the  meat  by  the  juices  and  into  the  drippings.  Snyder 
determined  the  total  and  nitrogenous  losses  in  beef  roasts  and  stews.  The 
meat  was  all  from  the  same  carcass,  the  cooking  conditions  were  standard- 
ized, and  the  roasts  or  stews  cooked  in  pairs.  Similar  cuts,  cut  as  nearly 
alike  as  possible  by  an  experienced  meat  cutter,  from  the  right  and  left 
side  of  the  animal,  were  used  for  each  pair,  one  of  the  pair  being  salted, 
the  other  left  unsalted.  The  quantity  of  salt  used  was  about  the  amount 
that  would  be  used  by  housewives  in  cooking  meat,  1.5  grams  per  pound 
of  meat.  The  losses  were  determined  on  the  basis  of  the  uncooked  weight 
of  the  meat  and  on  surface  area,  but  both  methods  showed  no  appreciable 
differences  in  the  total  or  nitrogenous  losses  of  the  salted  and  unsalted 
meats.  In  the  salted  roasts  the  flavor  penetrated  to  less  than  ^  inch  in 
depth.  The  layer  in  which  the  salt  had  penetrated  was  a  deeper  gray  in 
color  than  the  corresponding  layer  on  the  unsalted  roast. 

Records  for  cooked  meats.  In  addition  to  the  records  of  weight,  time 
of  cooking,  etc.,  a  tracing  may  be  made  of  the  cut  surface  of  roasts,  steaks, 
and  chops.  A  piece  of  parchment  paper  is  laid  over  the  cut  surface  and 
the  entire  surface  rubbed  lightly  with  the  fingers  to  bring  it  in  contact  with 
the  meat.  The  fat  leaves  the  paper  semi-transparent,  and  the  moisture  from 
the  lean  portion  slightly  puckers  the  paper.  A  pencil  tracing  is  made 
around  the  edge  of  the  meat  and  the  fat  and  bone  layers.  A  tracing  of  this 
sort  is  better  than  a  photograph  in  that  the  dimensions  are  actual  size.  It 
also  shows  the  exact  distribution  of  fat,  lean,  and  bone.  A  good  grade  of 
thin  typewriter  paper  can  be  used  for  making  these  prints. 

Methods  of  Cooking  Meats 

In  general  meat  Is  cooked  (1)  by  dry  heat  and  (2)  by  moist  heat.  Dry 
heat  Is  generally  used  for  tender  cuts,  such  as  roasts  and  steaks.  The  meat 
is  surrounded  by  dry  air  In  the  oven,  under  the  broiler,  or  over  coals,  or 
by  hot  fat.  In  general,  moist  heat  is  used  for  the  less  tender  cuts  and 
Includes  methods  by  which  the  meat  is  surrounded  by  steam  or  water.  This 
Includes  cooking  meat  in  water  as  for  stews,  In  steamers,  in  casseroles.  In 
Dutch  ovens,  and  even  in  roasting  pans  when  the  lid  fits  tightly  and  holds 
the  steam  around  the  meat. 

The  tender  cuts.  In  general  these  cuts  include  the  prime-rib  roasts, 
steaks  or  roasts  from  the  loin  and  sirloin,  leg  of  lamb,  fresh  pork  hams, 
and  pork,  lamb,  and  veal  chops. 

Beef  ribs.  Prime-beef  ribs  may  be  cooked  as  standing  roasts  or  the  bones 
may  be  removed  for  rolled  roasts.  Since  the  time  of  cooking  varies  with 
many  factors,  It  is  difficult  to  state  a  definite  time  per  pound  for  cooking 
meat.  Table  29  may  be  used  for  estimating  approximate  cooking  time  of 


THE  TENDER  CUTS  227 

one-rib  and  two-rib  standing  roasts.  For  three-rib  standing  roasts  cooked 
to  an  interior  temperature  of  57 °C.  an  average  time  of  about  20  to  22 
minutes  per  pound  is  required  when  the  experimental  searing  or  150°C. 
constant  temperature  methods  are  used.  When  the  interior  of  the  roast 
reaches  57 °C.,  the  edges  of  the  roast  are  contracting  so  that  the  large 
center  muscle  of  the  ribs  bulges.  As  the  roast  reaches  the  well-done  stage, 
all  the  muscles  are  contracted  to  a  greater  extent  so  that  the  large  muscle 
does  not  bulge  as  much  as  when  the  interior  has  reached  only  the  rare  or 
medium  well-done  stage. 

A  rolled  rib  roast  usually  requires  longer  per  pound  for  cooking  than  a 
standing  rib  roast  from  the  same  cut.  The  rolled  roast  is  usually  more 
compact  in  shape  with  a  proportionally  longer  diameter,  so  that  the  distance 
to  the  center  is  greater.  See  Fig.  25. 

Lamb  roasts.  A  leg  of  lamb  is  placed  on  a  rack  in  an  open  pan,  skin  or 
fell  side  up;  but  the  fell  is  placed  down  for  a  shoulder  r6ast.  The  fell 
can  be  removed,  but  Alexander  found  that  its  removal  increases  the  cook- 
ing losses,  increases  the  cooking  time,  and  does  not  increase  the  palatability 
of  the  meat. 

Alexander  and  Clark  state  that  approximately  35  minutes  per  pound 
may  be  allowed  for  cooking  by  the  experimental  searing  or  the  150°C. 
constant  temperature  methods,  but  considerable  variation  can  be  expected. 
They  found  the  cooking  time  for  750  legs  of  lamb,  roasted  by  the  Coopera- 
tive Meat  Investigation  searing  (experimental)  method  to  an  interior 
temperature  of  76°C.,  varied  from  25  to  58  minutes  per  pound,  the  small 
poorly  finished  legs  from  cull  carcasses  requiring  longer  and  plump  well- 
finished  legs  requiring  a  shorter  time.  The  time  is  about  the  same,  or  some- 
what shorter,  for  the  150°C.  constant  temperature  method,  and  is  con- 
siderably shorter  if  the  leg  is  cooked  to  an  interior  temperature  of  83 °C. 

Veal.  Veal  roasts  may  be  cooked  in  open  pans,  the  time  per  pound  for 
cooking  varying  widely  with  the  size  of  the  roast. 

Pork.  The  Cooperative  Meat  Investigation  cooking  committee  used  for 
the  searing  method  20  minutes  at  250°  to  255 °C.,  the  remainder  of  the 
cooking  period  being  at  150°C.  For  the  present  constant  temperature 
method,  175°C.  is  used.  A  higher  temperature  is  used  with  pork  because 
of  the  long  time  required  on  account  of  the  slow  rate  of  heat  penetration 
and  the  higher  interior  temperature  to  which  pork  is  cooked,  an  interior 
temperature  of  78°C.  to  87°C.  being  used.  The  official  testing  temperature 
is  84°C. 

Steaks.  Steaks  from  1  to  2  inches  in  thickness  may  have  a  thermometer 
inserted,  the  right-angle  type  being  easier  to  turn  for  reading  as  the  steak 
is  turned.  An  interior  temperature  of  60°  to  63°C.,  when  removed  from 
the  oven,  gives  a  medium  well-done  steak.  Steaks  may  be  broiled  below  a  gas 
flame,  under  an  electric  heating  unit,  or  over  coals,  or  they  may  be  pan 
broiled.   In  broiling,   the  steak  is  placed   far  enough   from  the   heat   and 


228  MEAT 

turned  often  enough  to  prevent  charring  or  over-browning.  If  desired, 
the  steak  may  be  turned  only  once.  For  a  rare  or  medium  well-done  steak 
the  cooking  temperature  does  not  need  to  be  lowered,  but  for  a  well-done 
steak,  or  for  one  thicker  than  1^2  inches,  the  temperature  may  be  lowered 
after  the  browning  is  accomplished.  Many  people  prefer  steak  cooked  at  a 
constant,  fairly  low  temperature.  The  interior  of  the  medium  well-done 
steak  is  then  more  uniform  in  appearance,  being  pinkish  throughout.  Many 
steaks  cooked  at  high  temperatures  are  likely  to  have  a  gray  surface  layer, 
a  thin  pink  layer,  and  an  uncooked  center  portion.  The  outer  surface  of 
the  steak  does  not  brown  so  well  at  the  lower  temperature,  but  these  con- 
noisseurs think  this  is  more  than  compensated  for  by  the  uniformity  of  the 
interior  of  the  steak.  Increased  browning  of  the  surface  at  the  lower  tem- 
perature may  be  acquired  by  sprinkling  with  a  small  amount  of  sugar. 

The  searing  time  and  the  total  cooking  time  vary  with  the  temperature 
used,  the  stage  of  cookery,  and  the  thickness  of  the  steak.  The  total  time 
for  a  medium-done  steak  1  inch  thick  is  7  to  10  minutes  when  seared. 
With  a  low,  constant  temperature  the  cooking  time  for  the  same  steak  may 
be  increased  to  20  minutes. 

Chops.  Chops  of  veal,  lamb,  and  pork  may  be  broiled  or  pan  broiled. 
Thicker  chops,  at  least  %  inch  thick,  but  mutton,  particularly,  as  thick 
as  2  inches,  are  easier  to  cook  without  drying  out  than  thin  chops.  The 
time  of  cooking  varies  with  the  temperature  and  the  thickness  of  the  chop 
from  about  8  to  30  minutes.  Pork  and  veal  are  usually  cooked  well  done. 
Pork  chops  require  about  10  to  20  minutes,  and  chops  of  veal  and  lamb 
%  to  1  inch  in  thickness  about  8  to  15  minutes. 

Less  tender  cuts.  The  less  tender  cuts  are  used  for  pot-roasts,  Swiss 
steak,  braised  meat  dishes,  stews,  and  soups.  If  ground,  the  meat  is  cooked 
as  a  tender  cut. 

The  less  tender  cuts  are  usually  cooked  by  moist  heat  and  at  fairly  low 
temperatures.  The  aim  is  to  cook  the  meat  so  that  the  structural  proteins, 
the  connective  tissues,  are  softened  yet  not  completely  dissolved  and  the 
plasma  proteins  of  the  fibers  are  not  made  tough,  rubbery,  or  stringy.  If  this 
is  successful,  a  tender  yet  easily  sliced  meat  is  the  result.  If  the  connective 
tissues  are  entirely  dissolved,  the  meat  is  not  slicable. 

The  less  tender  cuts  are  often  pounded,  or  seasoned  flour  is  pounded 
into  the  meat,  or  the  surface  is  floured  and  seared.  Pounding  appears  to  be 
a  good  means  of  increasing  the  tenderness  of  some  of  the  tougher  cuts, 
particularly  those  containing  a  great  deal  of  connective  tissue  and  little  fat 
or  when  they  are  not  ripened.  The  flour  absorbs  and  holds  moisture;  thus 
to  this  extent  the  meat  appears  less  dry.  Better  grades  of  less  tender  cuts 
containing  more  fat  and  cuts  from  carcasses  of  younger  animals  from 
which  rigor  has  passed  do  not  need  to  be  pounded. 

Cured  meats.  Some  of  the  common  cuts  of  cured  pork  are  regular  hams, 
skinned  hams,  shoulders,  shoulder  butts,   and  bacon.  The  loin,  cured,   is 


COVERED  AND  UNCOVERED  PANS       229 

sometimes  called  Canadian  bacon.  Cured  lean  meats,  because  of  the  action 
of  the  salt  during  curing,  are  already  fairly  dry  so  they  should  always  be 
cooked  to  prevent  as  little  moisture  loss  as  possible.  This  is  usually  accom- 
plished most  easily  by  slow  cooking  at  low  temperatures. 

Hams.  Hams  may  be  cured  with  a  light  or  a  heavy  salt  cure.  The  mild- 
cured  ones  do  not  need  soaking  over  night  or  parboiling  before  baking. 
Hams  with  a  heavy  salt  cure  are  improved  in  flavor  by  soaking  over  night 
or  for  24  hours. 

Hams  are  roasted  in  open  pans  on  a  rack,  fat  side  up,  at  125°C.  (about 
250°F.)  to  an  interior  temperature  of  70°  to  75°C.  If  the  oven  will  not 
maintain  as  low  a  temperature  as  this,  300°F.  may  be  used. 

For  cooking  hams  in  water,  a  simmering  temperature,  83°C.,  produces 
a  tender,  juicy  ham.  Water  temperatures  as  low  as  75°C.  may  be  used. 
Hams  cooked  in  water  have  the  cooking  losses  decreased  by  cooling  over 
night  in  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked,  but  the  cooking  losses  are 
influenced  by  the  temperature  of  the  liquor.  Child  found  that  the  cooking 
losses  gradually  decreased  as  the  temperature  of  the  liquor  decreased.  The 
smallest  losses,  hence  the  greatest  hydration  of  the  ham,  occurred  at  1.6°C. 
(35°F.).  In  fact  the  hams  averaged  a  slight  gain  in  weight  when  put  in 
the  refrigerator  and  the  liquor  cooled  to  this  temperature.  With  lowering 
the  temperature  below  1.6°C.  the  losses  increased. 

The  time  necessary  for  baking  or  cooking  ham  in  water  will  vary  with 
the  size  of  the  ham  and  the  cooking  temperature  used.  For  the  tempera- 
tures given,  hams  weighing  about  12  to  13  pounds  require  about  23  to  25 
minutes;  those  weighing  18  to  20  pounds  require  about  18  to  20  minutes 
per  pound. 

Bacon.  Bacon  should  be  cooked  at  a  temperature  below  the  smoking 
temperature  of  the  bacon  fat.  Slow  cooking  at  low  temperatures  is  best. 
For  large  quantities  of  bacon  an  excellent  method  is  to  spread  the  slices 
on  a  wire  rack,  place  in  a  pan,  and  bake  in  the  oven  at  160°C.  for  about 
18  minutes.  The  bacon  needs  no  turning. 

Covered  and  uncovered  pans  for  roasting  meat.  Grindley  and 
Mojoinner  state  regarding  the  losses  occurring  in  roasting  beef  in  covered 
and  uncovered  pans:  ''The  total  losses  were  greater  when  the  meats  were 
roasted  in  a  covered  pan  than  when  they  were  cooked  m  open  pans,  owing 
chiefly  to  the  increased  amount  of  water  removed.  In  the  same  time  and  at 
the. same  temperature  the  meat  was  more  thoroughly  cooked  in  the  cov- 
ered than  in  the  open  pans,  possibly  because  the  temperature  of  the  meat 
was  higher  in  the  closed  pan."  However,  they  based  their  conclusions  on 
results  of  experiments  with  1  covered  and  15  open  pans. 

The  Cooking  Committee  of  the  Cooperative  Meat  Investigations  uses 
uncovered  pans  for  cooking  all  experimental  roasts  and  advises  the  use  of 
uncovered  pans  in  the  home.  In  general  the  cooking  losses  are  less  and  the 
meat  more  palatable  in  the  uncovered  pan,  although  with  such  very  small 


230 


MEAT 


roasts  as  half  of  a  chicken  opposite  results  may  occur.  The  cooking  time 
is  shorter  when  covered  pans  are  used. 

Pressure  cooker.  Gortner,  in  speaking  of  the  moisture  content  of  dried 
biological  materials,  says  it  depends  upon  three  variables :  temperature, 
pressure,  and  time.  He  adds  that  the  moisture  content  of  a  sample  should 
not  be  given  w^ithout  a  statement  of  the  condition  under  which  it  was  dried. 
One  question  often  asked  is  why  meat  cooked  in  a  pressure  cooker  at  a  high 
temperature  is  tender  and  not  dry.  The  answer  is  determined  by  the  meat 
and  these  three  variables.  There  would  be  a  far  greater  tendency  to  dry  the 
fibers  at  a  high  temperature  and  in  a  partial  vacuum. 


Fig.  24. — Some  types  of  skewers  used  for  roasting  meat. 

The  use  of  skewers.  Muscle  tissue  conducts  heat  slowly.  Most  metals 
conduct  heat  rapidly.  Morgan  and  Nelson  used  skewers  in  cooking  stand- 
ing rib  roasts.  The  skewers  were  made  with  a  long,  narrow  portion,  about 
the  size  of  a  lead  pencil,  that  was  inserted  in  the  meat.  The  other  end  of 
the  skewer  was  in  a  spiral  to  give  greater  surface  for  receiving  the  heat 
from  the  oven,  and  thus  conducting  it  into  the  meat.  Pictures  of  the  dif- 
ferent types  of  skewers  used  in  meats  are  shown  in  Fig.  24.  They  found 
that  ''the  roasting  speed  was  increased  30  to  45  per  cent  when  nickel- 
plated  copper  skewers  were  used.  Similarly,  smaller  and  less  regular  de- 
creases in  total  shrinkage  of  weight  of  meat  were  found  in  the  skewered 
as  compared  with  unskewered  roasts."  They  found  the  efficiency  of  the 
skewers  in  shortening  the  cooking  period  greater  when  a  high  oven  tem- 
perature was  maintained  throughout  the  cooking  period. 


CONSTANT  TEMPERATURE  METHOD  231 


Cooking  Temperatures 

The  best  cooking  temperatures  for  meat  may  not  be  the  same  for  all 
conditions.  As  a  general  rule,  it  is  agreed  that  low  or  medium  temperatures 
are  better  than  high  ones  for  cooking  meat.  Yet  some  samples  of  meat  do 
not  seem  to  be  toughened  by  any  method  of  cooking;  that  is,  if  one 
deliberately  sets  out  to  show  that  higher  temperatures  toughen  a  piece  of 
meat,  while  the  same  cut  from  the  other  side  of  the  same  animal  cooked  at 
a  lower  temperature  is  tender,  the  results  are  often  not  consistent. 

Advantages  of  low  temperatures.  In  general,  lower  cooking  tem- 
peratures result  (1)  in  less  cooking  loss,  (2)  in  more  juicy  meat,  (3)  in 
more  uniformly  cooked  meat,  and  (4)  in  longer  cooking  time.  The  meat 
is  more  uniform  in  color  and  more  juicy  throughout;  whereas  at  a  higher 
temperature,  the  meat  is  more  gray  and  dry  at  the  surface,  there  being  a 
sharper  contrast  between  the  meat  near  the  surface  and  that  at  the  center 
of  the  cut.  A  longer  cooking  time  may  be  an  advantage,  for  the  home- 
maker  may  safely  leave  the  meat  cooking  while  she  attends  church,  etc. 

Disadvantages  of  low  temperatures.  Often  the  meat  (1)  does  not 
brown  as  attractively  at  the  lower  temperature,  although  occasionally  the 
opposite  is  true,  and  (2)  a  longer  cooking  time  is  required.  A  long  cooking 
time  may  also  be  a  disadvantage. 

Searing  method.  The  Cooking  Committee  of  Cooperative  Meat  In- 
vestigations formerly  used  a  searing  method  for  cooking  experimental  roasts 
of  fresh  meat.  The  roast  was  seared  for  20  minutes  at  250°  to  275°C. 
(about  480°  to  525°F.)  and  was  then  transferred  to  a  second  oven  at 
125 °C.  for  the  remainder  of  the  cooking  period.  It  was  necessary  to  transfer 
experimental  roasts  to  a  second  oven  so  that  results  from  different  labora- 
tories could  be  compared,  for  different  ovens  cool  at  different  rates.  Obvi- 
ously the  homemaker  cannot  use  two  ovens.  Hence  a  lower  temperature, 
200°  to  240°C.  (about  400°  to  450°F.),  is  recommended  for  the  house- 
wife in  searing  because  the  oven  will  remain  at  a  fairly  high  temperature 
for  some  time  after  the  temperature  control  has  been  set  at  the  lower 
temperature. 

Searing.  Searing  browns  the  meat,  develops  a  characteristic  surface 
flavor,  and  starts  the  cooking.  Often  the  statement  is  made  that  searing  by 
coagulating  the  muscle  tissue  on  the  surface  prevents  loss  of  interior  fluids 
and  extractives.  Searing  increases  the  cooking  losses,  though  the  losses 
may  be  largely  surface  ones.  Searing  also  does  not  prevent  the  loss  of 
interior  juices  in  all  instances. 

Constant  temperature  method.  At  present  the  Cooking  Committee 
uses  a  constant  oven  temperature  150°C.  (about  300°F.)  for  cooking 
experimental  roasts,  with  the  exception  of  pork,  which  is  cooked  at  175°C. 
(about  350°F.).  At  this  temperature  the  cooking  time  and  losses  are  prac- 


232  MEAT 

tically  the  same  as  for  the  searing  method  formerly  used.  The  exterior  is 
also  browned  to  about  the  same  extent,  although  it  is  sometimes  less  brown. 
The  homemaker  will  find  that  in  using  a  constant  temperature  excellent 
roasts  will  be  obtained  if  she  uses  150°,  125°,  or  175°C.  Some  ovens  will 
not  hold  as  low  a  temperature  as  125 °C.  (250°F.),  even  though  the 
regulator  carries  this  temperature.  The  meat  will  not  brown  as  readily  at 
the  lower  temperature,  but  this  can  be  overcome  by  using  a  mixture  of  salt 
and  sugar  or  sugar  alone  to  sprinkle  over  the  meat.  The  meat  cooked  at 
175°C.  will  not  be  as  uniformly  cooked  as  at  the  lower  temperature. 

Stages  to  Which  Meat  Is  Cooked:  Rare,  Medium,  and  Well  Done 

The  longer  a  piece  of  meat  is  cooked,  the  more  the  interior  color  changes 
from  pink  or  red  to  gray,  and  the  greater  the  cooking  losses.  Some  meats 
like  veal  and  pork  are  cooked  well  done,  whereas  beef  may  be  cooked  rare. 
There  is  no  definite  stage  between  a  rare  and  a  medium-done  piece  of  meat 
or  between  a  medium  well-done  one  and  a  well-done  one.  The  meat  passes 
from  one  stage  to  another  gradually,  so  that  there  is  no  definite  end  point. 
Heat  penetrates  slowly  into  the  interior  of  a  large  piece  of  meat,  and  the 
center  of  the  meat,  unless  very  much  over-cooked,  never  attains  as  high  a 
temperature  as  the  meat  near  the  surface. 

Rare  meat.  Grindley  and  Sprague  have  suggested,  for  convenience,  that 
meat  with  an  interior  temperature  at  its  center  of  60 °C.  or  below  be  called 
rare.  Such  meats  are  juicier  than  meats  cooked  well  done.  Nearly  all  the 
interior  may  be  a  bright  red  color  or  only  a  small  portion  around  the  center 
of  the  meat  may  be  red.  The  extent  or  uniformity  of  the  red  color  depends 
upon  the  cooking  temperature.  As  the  heat  penetrates  the  meat  the  color 
near  the  surface  becomes  gray.  If  the  cooking  temperature  is  high,  this  gray 
layer  may  extend  nearly  to  the  center  of  the  meat.  If  the  meat  is  cooked  at 
a  low  temperature  the  gray  color  extends  only  a  short  depth  and  the  color 
of  the  interior  of  the  meat  is  nearly  uniform.  Thus  it  can  be  seen  that  if 
different  cooking  temperatures  are  used  the  interior  of  different  pieces  of 
meat  cooked  to  the  same  inner  temperature  may  vary  decidedly  in  appear- 
ance. The  intensity  of  the  red  color  may  vary  with  other  factors  as  well  as 
with  the  cooking  temperature.  The  interior  of  cooked  meat  ripened  40  to 
60  days  is  grayer  in  color  than  meat  that  has  not  been  ripened.  Veal  cooked 
to  the  same  inner  temperature,  and  with  the  same  cooking  temperature,  is 
grayer,  and  has  less  red  color,  than  beef.  Rare  meat  also  has  more  of  the 
original  meat  flavor  than  well-done  meat,  for  not  so  much  of  the  fluids  and 
extractives  giving  flavor  to  the  meat  has  been  lost. 

Medium  well-done  meat.  Grindley  and  Sprague  have  suggested  that 
meat  that  has  reached  an  inner  temperature  of  60°  to  70°C.  be  called 
medium  well  done.  Here  the  color  also  varies  with  the  temperature  of 
cooking,  the  degree  to  which  the  meat  has  been  ripened,  and  in  some  in- 


FACTORS  AFFECTING  THE  TIME  IN  COOKING  MEAT  233 

stances  with  the  age  of  the  animal  and  the  kind  of  meat.  Rare  and  medium 
well-done  meats  are  probably  more  often  associated  with  the  color  of  the 
cooked  meat.  Since  the  color  of  the  cooked  meat  varies  with  different  con- 
ditions, the  division  into  rare,  medium  well  done  and  well  done  on  the 
basis  of  inner  temperature  of  the  meat  is  only  an  arbitrary  one  and  not 
always  satisfactory.  Most  people  would  be  agreed  that  medium  well-done 
meat  should  not  be  a  deep  red  or  pink,  but  should  show  some  pink  color. 
Well-done  meat.  Meat  that  has  a  uniform  gray  color  throughout  the 
entire  interior  of  the  meat  is  usually  called  well  done.  With  veal,  this 
stage  of  cookery  is  sometimes  reached  before  or  by  the  time  the  inner  tem- 
perature of  the  meat  has  reached  71°C.  This  may  also  be  true  of  beef  that 
has  ripened  sufficiently.  Unripened  beef  requires  a  higher  temperature  than 
7l°C.  before  a  uniform  gray  color  is  attained,  when  a  low  cooking  tem- 
perature is  used.  But  to  some  persons  the  term  well  done  is  associated  with 
the  degree  of  cookery,  that  is,  the  separation  of  the  muscle  fibers  due  to 
formation  of  gelatin  from  the  connective  tissue.  It  may  also  refer  to  the 
dryness  of  the  meat  and  the  loss  of  juices.  The  meat  may  be  cooked  until 
it  reaches  a  temperature  far  above  7l°C.,  often  from  80°  to  85°C.  for 
roasts  and  from  95°  to  99°C.  for  braised  meat. 

Factors  Affecting  the  Time  Required  for  Cooking  Meat 

Directions  for  cooking  meat  usually  state  the  time  of  cooking  in  terms 
of  minutes  per  pound.  At  best  this  can  only  serve  as  a  guide,  for  several 
factors  may  cause  variation  in  the  length  of  time  required  to  cook  a  piece 
of  meat.  The  only  way  of  knowing  when  the  interior  of  a  piece  of  meat 
has  reached  a  definite  temperature  and  thus  a  definite  stage  of  cookery  is 
to  insert  something  in  the  center  of  the  meat  by  which  the  interior  tem- 
perature may  be  read.  For  this  purpose  a  thermometer  or  a  thermocouple 
may  be  used.  The  easiest  method  for  household  use  is  the  insertion  of  a 
thermometer  into  the  meat.  Two  types  of  thermometers  may  be  used :  a 
right-angled  thermometer  with  the  temperature  scale  on  the  horizontal  arm 
(see  Fig.  23)  ;  or  a  very  short  tube- type  thermometer  about  6  or  8  inches 
long  with  the  temperature  scale  on  the  upper  half.  The  latter  must  be  short 
to  keep  the  top  from  touching  the  upper  part  of  the  oven,  particularly  the 
small  gas  ovens  and  many  electric  ovens.  Thus  the  graduated  scale  is  con- 
densed, which  makes  it  more  difficult  to  read.  The  short  thermometer  is 
preferable  for  small  roasts  of  meat  and  for  meat  with  soft  fibers.  The  right- 
angled  thermometer  is  suitable  for  beef  roasts,  ham,  leg  of  veal,  and  lamb. 
It  is  convenient  for  taking  temperatures  of  custards,  cakes,  and  other  foods, 
for  it  can  be  supported  by  the  horizontal  arm  from  a  shelf  in  the  oven. 

The  following  factors  affect  the  time  required  to  cook  meat.  (1)  The 
cooking  temperature.  (2)  Weight.  Surface  area.  The  shortest  distance  to 
the  center  of  the  thickest  portion  of  the  meat.  (3)  The  stage  to  which  the 


234 


MEAT 


meat  is  cooked — rare,   or  well  done.    (4)    The  composition   of   the  meat. 
(5)  The  degree  of  ripeness. 

The  cooking  temperature.  The  higher  the  cooking  temperature  the 
more  rapidly  will  a  piece  of  meat  reach  a  definite  temperature,  for  with 
a  higher  temperature  at  the  surface,  the  more  rapidly  heat  will  penetrate 
to  the  interior  of  the  meat.  As  oven  temperatures  during  the  cooking  of 
meat  may  vary  many  degrees,  this  factor  causes  a  wide  variation  in  the 
time  required  for  cooking  meat. 


Diagram  A 


10 


Diagram  G  Diagram  D 

Fig.  25. — To  illustrate  heat  penetration  in  roasts  and  to  show  that  the  diameter 
does  not  increase  in  the  same   ratio  as  the  weight. 


Weight.  Surface  area.  Shortest  distance  to  thickest  portion  of 
the  meat.  The  time  for  cooking  meat  is  often  expressed  in  minutes  per 
pound,  but  it  is  also  a  well-known  fact  that  a  heavy  piece  of  meat  of  the 
same  shape  as  one  of  light  weight  will  require  a  shorter  time  per  pound 
for  cooking  if  the  oven  temperatures  are  the  same.  The  reason  for  this 
can  best  be  explained  with  the  aid  of  a  diagram.  Suppose  a  cube  1  inch 
square  weighs  1  ounce.  It  contains  6  square  inches  of  surface  area  (see  Fig. 
25,  diagram  A),  and  the  distance  from  the  sides  to  the  center  {s — c  in  the 
figure)  is  ^  inch.  If  the  cube  is  enlarged  to  10  times  its  original  size,  dia- 
gram B,  its  weight  is  increased  to  1000  ounces,  its  surface  to  600  square 


TIME  PER  POUND  235 

inches  or  100  times  its  original  surface  area,  and  the  distance  {s — c)  to 
the  center  is  5  inches,  or  10  times  the  distance  of  cube  A.  In  other  words, 
the  distance  to  the  center  does  not  increase  in  the  same  ratio  as  the  surface 
area  and  the  weight.  In  heating  these  cubes,  if  the  heat  travels  through  the 
material  at  a  uniform  rate  it  will  not  take  1000  times  as  long  to  bring  the 
center  of  cube  5  to  a  definite  temperature  as  cube  A,  but  10  times  as  long. 
The  diameter  of  a  sphere  or  a  cylinder  does  not  increase  in  the  same  pro- 
portion as  the  surface  area  and  weight.  A  piece  of  meat  is  not  shaped  like 
a  cube,  but  some  are  cylindrical,  and  in  roasts  of  similar  shape  the  weight 
increases  more  rapidly  than  the  distance  that  the  heat  must  penetrate. 

Rolled  roasts  are  cylindrical  in  shape.  Here  the  length  of  the  radius 
(r)  determines  the  time  for  the  heat  to  penetrate  to  the  center  of  the 
roast,  unless  the  length  of  the  cylinder  is  shorter  than  its  diameter.  See  Fig. 
25,  diagram  C. 

In  a  standing  rib  roast.  Fig.  25,  diagram  D,  it  is  not  the  distance  to  the 
center  of  the  meat,  which  may  be  somewhere  near  the  portion  marked  x, 
but  the  distance  through  the  thick  portion  of  the  meat,  which  affects  the 
time  required  for  cooking.  The  heat  travels  in  from  the  top  along  the  line 
tc,  from  the  side  along  the  line  sc,  and  from  the  bottom  along  the  line  be. 
Ham,  leg  of  lamb,  and  leg  of  veal  have  the  thickest  portion  of  the  meat 
nearer  one  end  than  the  center  of  the  meat. 

It  is  obvious  from  the  diagrams  that  the  shorter  the  distance  to  the  center 
of  the  piece  of  meat  the  more  rapidly  the  heat  will  penetrate;  the  longer 
the  distance,  the  more  time  will  be  required.  Weight  and  surface  area  are 
not  satisfactory  to  determine  cooking  time,  for  the  size  of  the  piece  and 
its  shape  determine  the  distance  to  the  thickest  part  of  the  meat.  A  thin, 
wide  roast  will  cook  in  less  time  and  a  thick  compact  one  will  take  a  longer 
time.  The  following  examples  illustrate  this.  A  standing  rib  roast  weigh- 
ing 11.6  pounds  required  1  hour  and  52  minutes  to  reach  an  inner  tem- 
perature of  57°C.,  when  cooked  for  20  minutes  at  275°C.  and  for  the 
remainder  of  the  cooking  period  at  125°C.  This  gives  an  average  of  9.3 
minutes  per  pound.  Another  roast  weighing  11.5  pounds  and  with  the  same 
cooking  conditions  required  3  hours  and  43  minutes,  averaging  19.3  min- 
utes per  pound.  The  first  roast  consisted  of  five  ribs  and  was  thin  and  wide  ; 
the  latter  consisted  of  three  ribs  and  was  thick  and  compact.  If  roasts  are 
always  of  the  same  shape  and  the  same  cooking  temperature  is  always 
used  the  time  for  cooking  can  be  estimated  more  accurately  than  when  the 
shape  of  the  roast  varies. 

A  large  piece  of  meat  cooks  in  a  shorter  time  per  pound  than  a  small 
one  if  all  other  conditions  are  standardized.  Smaller  hams  and  legs  of 
lamb  require  more  minutes  per  pound  than  larger  ones.  The  same  is  true  of 
poultry,  smaller  chickens  and  turkeys  requiring  more  minutes  per  pound 
than  larger  ones. 

Time  per  pound.  Minutes  per  pound  for  some  roasts  are  given  in 
Tables  29  and  30,  but  if  not  taken  in  connection  with  cooking  tempera- 


236 


MEAT 


tures,  size,  and  the  stage  of  cookery,  they  are  worth  very  little  for  a  guide 
in  cooking  meat.  Most  of  the  roasts  given  in  these  tables  were  transferred 
to  a  second  oven  after  searing  instead  of  lowering  the  temperature  of  the 
oven  in  which  the  roast  was  seared.  This  gives  a  slightly  longer  time  per 
pound.  There  may  be  considerable  variation  in  the  time  per  pound  as  can 
be  seen  in  Table  29.  In  general,  the  time  per  pound  is  longer  with  the 
smaller  roasts.  With  a  very  thin  roast  the  thickness  of  the  slice  influences 
the  rate  of  heat  penetration  more  than  the  other  dimensions  or  its  weight. 

TABLE  29 

The  Time  of  Cooking  per  Pound  and  Cooking  Losses  in  One-rib  and 

Two-rib  Beef  Roasts  Cooked  to  Different  Stages. 

Some  Class  Results 


No.  of 

Weight 

Searing 
temper- 

Cooking 
temper- 

Interior 
temper- 
ature 
when 

Cooki 

ng  time 

Total 

ribs 

cooking 

in 
roast 

grams 

pounds 

ature 

°c. 

ature 

°c. 

removed 
from 
oven 

Total, 
min- 
utes 

Time 

per 
pound 

losses, 
per  cent 

One 

836 

1.8 

275 

125 

55 

59 

33.0 

8.4 

Two 

1560 

3.4 

275 

125 

55 

93 

38  2 

11.8 

Two 

2331 

5.1 

275 

125 

55 

100 

19.5 

10.9 

Two 

2813 

6.2 

275 

125 

56 

124 

20.0 

15.1 

One 

835 

1.8 

275 

125 

65 

81 

45.0 

11.0 

Two 

1575 

3.3 

275 

125 

65 

116 

33.3 

14.9 

Two 

1626 

3.6 

275 

125 

65 

140 

36.0 

14.8 

Two 

1890 

4.2 

275 

125 

65 

110 

26.3 

14.0 

One 

757 

1.7 

275 

125 

75 

85 

50.0 

20.0 

1  wo 

1603 

3.5 

275 

125 

75 

190 

53.3 

21.4 

Two 

1758 

3.9 

275 

125 

75 

127 

32.5 

25.0 

Two 

2268 

5.0 

275 

125 

75 

260 

52.0 

20.2 

Surface  area.  Since  time  per  pound  does  not  give  a  dependable  basis 
for  cooking  meat  an  effort  is  often  made  to  express  cooking  time  in  relation 
to  the  surface  area.  Often  this  is  expressed  in  the  following  way.  The 
greater  the  surface  area  the  shorter  the  time  required  for  cooking  a  piece 
of  meat  if  all  other  conditions  are  standardized.  From  the  diagrams,  Fig. 
25,  it  can  be  seen  that  this  method  would  give  a  less  variable  cooking  time, 
at  least  for  some  pieces  of  meat  of  certain  shape,  than  time  per  pound. 
This  method  of  expressing  time  for  cooking  is  also  more  difficult  to  deter- 
mine in  the  home. 


TEMPERATURE  OF  MEAT  237 

Stage  to  which  the  meat  is  cooked.  Cooking  meat  rare  does  not  re- 
quire so  long  a  time  as  cooking  medium  well  done  or  well  done,  because 
the  last  two  stages  require  a  higher  inner  temperature.  See  Table  29. 

The  composition  of  the  meat.  The  proportion  of  fat  and  lean  in  the 
meat  affects  the  time  required  for  cooking.  There  has  been  much  confusion 
regarding  the  rate  of  heat  conduction  by  fat.  In  physiology,  one  is  told  that 
a  layer  of  fat  over  the  muscles  prevents  loss  of  body  heat,  because  the  fat 
is  a  poor  conductor  of  heat.  In  articles  on  cooking  various  foods,  one  often 
sees  the  statement  that  fat  conducts  heat  more  readily  than  muscle  tissue. 
These  two  seemingly  contradictory  statements  are  explainable.  Redfield  has 
offered  a  solution.  In  studying  the  rate  of  heat  penetration  in  canning  pork 
and  beef,  she  found,  with  all  other  conditions  standardized,  that  the  tem- 
perature at  the  center  of  the  can  of  pork  rose  more  slowly  than  the  tem- 
perature at  the  center  of  the  can  of  beef.  In  order  to  determine  whether 
this  slower  heat  conduction  in  the  pork  was  due  to  its  greater  fat  content, 
she  packed  some  cans  with  suet  and  others  with  beef  round  free  of  all 
visible  fat.  She  found  that  the  temperature  of  the  suet  rose  more  slowly 
than  that  of  the  beef  round  until  the  melting  point  of  the  suet  was  reached. 
As  soon  as  the  fat  melted,  it  conducted  the  heat  faster  than  the  beef  round. 
Fat  in  a  liquid  form  in  cooking  is  a  good  conductor  of  heat,  but  if  it  is  in 
a  solid  form  it  is  a  poor  conductor  of  heat.  In  Redfield's  experiments,  the 
fat  escaped  from  the  fat  cells,  the  connective  tissue  forming  a  piece  about 
the  size  of  a  marble  around  the  point  of  the  thermocouple. 

The  writer's  experimental  classes,  in  processing  suet,  fat  pork,  lean  beef, 
and  lean  pork  in  pint  cans  in  a  hot  water  bath,  have  found  the  rate  of  heat 
penetration  to  be  much  slower  in  the  fat  meat  than  in  the  lean,  even  at 
temperatures  of  90 °C.  and  above.  When  the  suet  was  packed  tightly  into 
the  jar  so  that  the  tissues  surrounding  the  fat  cells  were  broken,  Redfield's 
results  were  checked. 

Degree  of  ripeness.  Alexander  and  Clark  found  that  increasing  the 
length  of  the  ripening  period  after  slaughter  shortened  the  time  required 
to  roast  leg  of  lamb.  As  the  ripening  period  increased  beyond  two  days 
after  slaughter,  the  cooking  shrinkage  became  smaller  and  the  rate  of  heat 
penetration  more  rapid. 

Thus  it  seems  that,  if  the  connective  tissue  remains  unbroken,  as  it  does 
in  the  more  solid  fat  and  the  interior  fat  of  meat  cuts,  it  prevents  the  fat 
globules  from  touching  each  other  and  delays  heat  penetration. 

Rise  of  Interior  Temperature  of  Meat  after  the  Cooking  Process 

Has  Been  Stopped 

When  a  roast  is  removed  from  the  oven  or  a  piece  of  cooked  meat  is 
removed  from  the  cooking  utensil  the  temperature  in  the  interior  may  con- 
tinue to  rise.  Heat  is  carried  to  the  interior  of  the  meat  by  conduction,  that 
is,  from  fiber  to  fiber.  When  the  cooking  process  is  stopped  the  temperature 
of  the  meat  half  way  to  the  center  is  higher  than  the  temperature  at  the 


238  MEAT 

center.  This  heat  is  conducted  both  toward  the  center  and  the  outer  edge 
of  the  meat,  and  as  a  consequence  the  temperature  at  the  center  of  the 
meat  rises. 

The  factors  that  may  determine  the  extent  of  this  rise  in  temperature 
after  removal  from  the  oven  are:  (1)  the  cooking  temperature;  (2)  the 
inner  temperature  of  the  meat  when  the  cooking  process  is  stopped;  (3) 
the  size  of  the  piece  of  meat;  (4)  the  composition.  It  must  be  remembered 
that  each  of  these  factors  may  have  an  influence  on  the  temperature  rise 
of  the  same  piece  of  meat,  and  that  under  some  conditions  one  factor  may 
influence  it  more  than  another.  Thus  they  cannot  be  considered  separately, 
for  the  high  cooking  temperature  of  a  steak  or  roast  may  affect  the  tem- 
perature rise  more  than  the  size.  Yet  under  some  conditions  size  is  a  greater 
factor  in  determining  temperature  rise. 

Cooking  temperature  and  temperature  rise  after  the  cooking 
process  is  stopped.  The  higher  the  cooking  temperature  the  greater  the 
tendency  for  a  rise  in  the  inner  temperature  of  the  meat.  A  higher  cooking 
temperature  produces  a  higher  surface  temperature,  and  consequently  results 
in  a  higher  rise  at  the  interior  after  the  cooking  process  is  stopped. 

Inner  temperature.  The  lower  the  inner  temperature  at  which  the 
cooking  is  stopped,  the  greater  the  tendency  for  the  rise  of  inner  tempera- 
ture. This  is  because  with  a  low  inner  temperature  there  is  a  wider  varia- 
tion between  the  inner  and  surface  heat,  which  results  in  greater  rise  of 
inner  temperature.  The  inner  temperature  of  foods  that  contain  a  high 
percentage  of  water,  such  as  cake,  meat,  and  potatoes,  never  rises  above 
the  boiling  point  of  their  juices.  Heat  supplied  in  amounts  greater  than 
the  amount  needed  to  reach  the  boiling  point  of  the  juices  is  used  in 
evaporating  the  liquid.  It  is  impossible  to  raise  the  inner  temperature  of 
meat  above  100°C.  without  having  a  very  dry,  charred  product. 

Size.  In  larger  pieces  of  meat,  the  size  of  the  piece  is  not  so  important 
a  factor  as  those  mentioned  above  in  affecting  the  temperature  rise  of  the 
interior  after  cooking  has  been  stopped.  But  a  piece  of  meat  may  be  so 
small  or  thin  that  the  inner  temperature  does  not  rise  after  the  cooking 
process  is  stopped,  because  of  the  rapid  cooling  from  the  surface. 

Composition  and  duration  of  temperature  rise.  No  definite  relation 
has  been  established  between  composition  of  the  meat  and  the  extent  of  the 
inner  temperature  rise  after  cooking.  It  does  seem  to  affect  the  duration 
of  the  temperature  rise  more  than  the  extent.  Meat  containing  a  great  deal 
of  fat  and  meat  that  has  a  very  thick  layer  of  fat  on  the  surface,  ^  to  1 
inch  or  more,  requires  a  long  time  for  the  inner  temperature  to  reach  its 
maximum  point.  A  roast  with  such  a  layer  of  fat  may  take  as  long  as  1 
to  1^  hours  to  reach  its  maximum  inner  temperature,  whereas  a  lean  roast 
of  the  same  shape,  and  cooked  under  the  same  conditions,  may  take  only  12 
to  30  minutes  to  reach  its  maximum  interior  temperature,  after  the  cooking 
process  is  stopped. 


METHOD  OF  COOKING  AND  COOKING  LOSSES     239 


Factors  Affecting  the  Losses  That  Occur  During  the   Cooking 

of  Meat 

The  total  loss  that  occurs  during  the  cooking  of  meat  includes  the  losses 
known  as  drippings  and  the  volatile  losses.  The  greater  part  of  the  volatile 
loss  is  from  evaporation  of  w^ater.  It  may  include  volatile  substances  from 
the  decomposition  of  fat  and  volatile  aromatic  substances.  The  drippings 
include  fat,  w^ater,  salts,  and  both  nitrogenous  and  non-nitrogenous  ex- 
tractives. 

Time,  stage  of  cookery  and  losses.  The  stage  of  cookery  is  one  fac- 
tor that  affects  the  cooking  loss.  Meat  cooked  rare  gives  less  total  cooking 
loss  than  meat  cooked  well  done.  A  longer  time  is  required  to  reach  the 
well-done  stage,  if  all  other  conditions  are  the  same.  Thus  length  of  time 
of  cooking  and  the  stage  to  which  the  meat  is  cooked  are  related  factors. 

Composition  and  cooking  losses.  Meat  containing  a  high  percentage 
of  fat  cooked  under  standardized  conditions  gives  greater  cooking  losses  than 
lean  meat.  The  amount  of  drippings  is  always  greater  for  the  fat  meat 
than  for  similar  lean  cuts  from  the  same  kind  of  animal.  This  is  also  true 
for  poultry.  Cooking  temperatures  that  melt  the  fat  cause  a  heavy  fat  loss 
from  the  meat. 

Surface  area  and  cooking  losses.  The  shape  and  surface  area  of  the 
meat  also  influence  the  loss  that  occurs  during  cooking.  The  greater  the 
surface  area  of  the  meat,  the  greater  the  area  at  which  losses  may  occur. 
Compact  pieces  of  meat  with  correspondingly  small  surface  areas  give 
smaller  losses  than  irregular-shaped  pieces  with  greater  surface  areas. 

Cooking  temperature  and  cooking  losses.  The  cooking  tempera- 
ture is  in  many  instances  the  principal  factor  in  determining  the  percentage 
of  weight  that  is  lost  during  cooking.  Occasionally  time  may  be  a  more 
important  factor  than  cooking  temperature  in  its  effect  on  the  resulting 
losses.  For  example,  cooking  losses  were  greater  for  halves  of  chicken  roasted 
at  125°C.  (about  250°F.)  than  for  the  corresponding  halves  roasted  at 
175°C.  (about  350°F.).  In  the  former  instance,  twice  as  long  was  required 
for  the  interior  of  the  thigh  to  reach  85°C.  (185°F.).  Alexander  and 
Clark  found  similar  results  for  very  small,  poorly  finished  legs  of  lamb. 
However,  in  general  the  higher  the  cooking  temperature  the  greater  the 
cooking  losses;  the  lower  the  cooking  temperature  the  smaller  the  cooking 
losses.  Intermediate  cooking  temperatures  give  corresponding  intermediate 
cooking  losses. 

Method  of  cooking  and  cooking  losses.  The  method  of  cooking  the 
meat  may  also  influence  the  cooking  loss.  A  broiled  steak  may  have  a  far 
greater  total  loss  than  a  pan-broiled  one,  yet  the  interior  of  the  meat  may 
be  just  as  juicy.  The  radiant  heat  as  well  as  the  temperature  reached  usually 
causes  a  high  fat  loss  from  the  edge  of  the  boiled  steaks,  whereas  a  pan- 
broiled  one  may  have  a  small  fat  loss. 


240  MEAT 

Degree  of  ripeness.  Alexander  and  Clark  found  cooking  losses  de- 
creased with  longer  ripening. 

The  Losses  Occurring  in  Cooked  Meats 

The  cooking  losses  vary  with  the  factors  mentioned,  time,  stage  of  cook- 
ery, cooking  temperature,  surface  area,  and  composition.  Usually,  the  longer 
a  piece  of  meat  is  cooked,  the  greater  the  cooking  losses;  but  this  is  not 
always  true  in  practise,  for  owing  to  differences  in  surface  area  and  com- 
position of  different  meats,  it  is  not  possible  always  to  standardize  all 
conditions. 

Meats  show  wide  variations  in  cooking  losses.  The  cooking  losses 
in  meat  may  vary  from  5  per  cent  to  50  per  cent.  This  is  a  wide  variation. 
Obviously,  meat  that  has  lost  50  per  cent  of  the  uncooked  weight  is  either 
very  dry  or  has  lost  an  immense  amount  of  surface  fat.  Swiss  steak  was 
cooked  to  determine  the  effect  of  different  percentages  of  loss  on  texture 
and  palatability  of  the  meat.  The  ones  with  50  per  cent  loss  were  very 
dry  and  unappetizing,  even  for  a  person  who  prefers  meat  very  well  done. 
Here  there  was  little  surface  fat,  because  of  the  cut  and  type  of  meat 
used.  A  roast  with  a  great  deal  of  surface  fat  may  suffer  a  rather  high 
loss  and  be  far  more  palatable  than  a  lean  piece  of  meat.  But,  in  general, 
a  40  to  50  per  cent  loss  leaves  the  meat  much  too  dry. 

Well-done  meat  usually  shows  greater  cooking  losses.  In  general,  meats 
cooked  rare  sustain  less  loss;  the  losses  may  vary  from  5  to  20  per  cent. 
Under  some  conditions  they  may  be  higher.  Well-done  meats  usually  have 
a  higher  cooking  loss,  from  20  to  45  per  cent.  However,  meats  cooked  until 
well  done  at  very  low  cooking  temperatures  may  have  less  than  15  per  cent 
cooking  losses,  so  that  it  is  impossible  to  give  definite  figures  for  any 
definite  stage  of  cookery. 

In  Table  30  some  cooking  losses  are  given,  and  since  cooking  losses 
without  cooking  temperatures  and  stage  of  cookery  mean  little,  these  are 
included.  The  composition  of  the  meat  and  relative  surface  area  are  not 
indicated. 

Cooking  losses  in  steaks  and  chops.  The  losses  in  steaks  may  vary 
to  a  great  extent,  but  usually  seem  to  come  within  10  to  40  per  cent,  when 
ordinary  cooking  methods  and  cooking  times  are  used.  High  cooking  tem- 
peratures cause  a  greater  fat  loss  from  around  the  edge  of  the  steak  and 
also  brown  it  better,  giving  a  more  attractive  appearance,  unless  the  tem- 
perature is  so  high  that  the  fat  is  charred.  A  steak  may  be  cooked  at  a 
high  temperature,  and  have  a  greater  loss,  due  to  high  temperature,  yet 
be  rare  in  the  center,  because  of  a  shorter  cooking  time,  than  a  steak  cooked 
at  a  low  temperature.  Steaks  and  chops  that  are  cooked  rare  or  medium 
well  done  may  lose  from  10  to  25  per  cent  of  the  uncooked  weight.  Steaks 
and  chops  cooked  well  done  usually  have  higher  losses,  from  20  to  40  per 
cent.  The  above  figures  are  taken  from  losses  obtained  in  cooking  steaks  and 


LOSSES  IN  MEATS  COOKED  IN  WATER 


241 


TABLE  30 
Cooking  Losses  of  Roasts 


Aver- 

Aver- 

Interior 

Total  cooking  losses 

Sear- 

Cook- 

age 
time 

tempera- 
ture when 

Investigator 

No. 

age 
weight 

of 
roasts, 

ing 

ing 

Kind  of  meat 
and  cut 

roasts 

temper- 
ature 

temper- 
ature 

per 
pound, 

removed 
from 

Aver- 
age, 

Mini- 
mum, 

Maxi- 
mum, 

pounds 

X. 

°C. 

min- 

oven 

per 

per 

per 

utes 

°C. 

cent 

cent 

cent 

Dowler 

Pork,  rolled  loin 

6 

3.97 

250 

150 

34.5 

77 

27.4 

20.0 

31.0 

Hunt 

Beef,  standing. 

6 

6.26 

275 

125 

18.3 

57 

16.6 

10.6 

21.3 

3-ribs 

Kite 

Beef,  standing. 

5 

6.98 

250 

250 

16.7 

70 

41.2 

35.4 

47.3 

3-ribs 

Lowe 

Beef,  standing. 

43 

4.65 

275 

125 

22.4 

57 

10.8 

7.2 

17.4 

3-ribs.  Feeders 

Beef,  standing, 

65 

8.95 

275 

125 

19.8 

57 

13.0 

6.6 

18.4 

3-ribs.  Fattened 

Beef,  ribs  rolled 

5 

14.09 

260 

125 

17.8 

57 

10.3 

7.9 

14.4 

Pork,  loin 

5 

1.44 

275 

150 

69.0 

80 

27.4 

20.0 

31.0 

Ham,  baked 

3 

12.2 

150 

125 

22.9 

70 

15.4 

14.4 

17.7 

Ham,  baked 

5 

19.5 

150 

125 

17.8 

70 

22.6 

15.8 

26.6 

Ham,  boiled 

3 

18.6 

85 

85 

18.6 

70 

16.3 

12.4 

31.5 

Lamb,  leg 

3 

5.00 

275 

125 

36.9 

75 

13.3 

7.1 

16.8 

Snyder 

Beef,  rump 

2 

7.38 

275 

125 

21.4 

57 

12.7 

12.1 

13.4 

Shoulder  round 

2 

5.29 

275 

125 

22.9 

57 

7.9 

6.9 

8.9 

boned    and 

rolled. 

Chuck  ribs 

2 

4.88 

275 

125 

24.7 

57 

9.9 

9.9 

9.9 

chops  in  class  work.  They  are  approximate  and  do  not  apply  to  all  con- 
ditions. Steaks  and  chops  put  in  a  cold  pan  and  cooked  at  a  low  tempera- 
ture for  the  entire  cooking  period  show  low  cooking  losses.  They  are  juicy 
but  do  not  brown  as  well  as  ones  seared  at  a  high  temperature,  and  the  fat 
does  not  brown  well. 

Losses  in  meats  cooked  in  water.  The  losses  of  meat  cooked  in  water 
kept  at  a  boiling  temperature  are  usually  higher  than  those  cooked  in  water 
held  at  a  temperature  of  85 °C.  or  lower.  Often  the  loss  is  twice  as  great 
in  the  boiling  water.  The  extent  of  surface  area,  composition,  and  time  of 
cooking  affect  the  loss.  Commercially  boiled  hams  are  often  cooked  at  a 
temperature  of  about  75 °C.,  for  this  results  in  a  lower  cooking  loss,  about 
15  per  cent,  which  gives  a  texture  that  cuts  and  slices  well.  One  very  lean 


242 


MEAT 


ham  cooked  in  the  laboratory  in  water  at  82°  with  a  total  cooking  loss  of 
12.4  per  cent  sliced  well  and  had  an  excellent  flavor.  A  cooking  loss  of 
20  to  25  per  cent  seems  to  give  a  flavor  to  the  ham  that  is  preferred  by 
most  persons. 

The  Percentage  of  Cooked  Meat  That  Is  Edible 

Van  Arsdale  and  Monroe  have  reported  their  results  on  ''The  cost  of 
meat  as  purchased  and  eaten."  The  following  table  is  compiled  from  their 
results. 


TABLE  31 
Cost  of  Meat  as  Purchased  and  Eaten  {Va7i  Arsdale  and  Monroe) 


Kind  of  meat 

Number  of 
chops,  etc. 

Per  cent 
edible 

Purchase 

price  per 

pound 

Cost  per 

pound 

cooked  edible 

portion  eaten 

Rib  lamb  chop 

6 

21.00 

SO.  28 

vS  1.360 

(Frenched) 

Rib  lamb  chop 

6 

26.39 

0.28 

1.110 

Loin  lamb  chop 

6 

44.20 

0.28 

0.646 

Loin  pork  chops 

6 

48.00 

0.23 

0.483 

Ham 

1 

43.80 

0.19 

0.433 

Round  beef  steak 

6 

59.61 

0.25 

0.421 

Porterhouse  steak 

2 

56.27 

0.30 

0.522 

Pot  roast 

1 

54.85 

0.26 

0.485 

Fowl 

1 

23.00 

0.25 

1.080 

From  the  figures  of  Van  Arsdale  and  Monroe  it  will  be  seen  that  the 
loin  lamb  chops  have  higher  percentage  edible  portion  that  the  rib  lamb 
chops.  Determinations  of  the  weight  of  the  cooked  edible  portion  of  rib 
and  loin  pork  chops  made  in  the  author's  laboratory  give  similar  results, 
i.e.,  the  loin  pork  chops  have  less  waste  than  the  rib  pork  chops.  The 
percentage  of  edible  round  beef  steak  given  by  Van  Arsdale  and  Monroe's 
results  is  much  lower  than  the  total  edible  portion  for  this  cut  of  beef,  on 
account  of  the  large  percentage  of  the  portion  served  which  was  not  eaten. 
Monroe  and  Van  Arsdale  have  published  results  of  experiments  wnth  roasts 
of  beef,  veal,  lamb,  and  pork. 

The  most  extensive  w^ork  on  determining  the  weight  and  amount  of 
edible  and  servable  meat  with  which  the  author  is  familiar  is  that  of  Mc- 
Elhinney.  This  work  was  done  in  the  Institutional  Laboratory  at  Iowa 
State  College.  The  figures  in  the  following  tables  are  compiled  from  Mc- 
Elhinney's  results. 


POULTRY 


243 


The  searing  temperature  for  all  the  meats  with  the  exception  of  the 
ham  was  250°  to  275°C.  for  20  minutes,  and  they  were  then  cooked  at 
125°C.  for  the  remainder  of  the  cooking  period.  The  baked  hams  were 
cooked  at  150°C.  for  30  minutes  and  then  at  125°C.  for  the  remainder 
of  the  time.  For  the  boiled  hams  a  pint  of  water  was  allowed  for  each 
pound,  and  they  were  cooked  at  a  temperature  of  82°  to  83 °C.  The  degree 
of  doneness  was  determined  by  the  use  of  a  chemical  thermometer  inserted 
into  the  roast  as  previously  described. 

TABLE  32 

The  Average  Cooking  Losses  and  Time  Required  to  Cook  Different 
Kinds  of  Meat  {McElhinney) 


Inner 

Maxi- 

Kind of 
meat 

Number 
of 

Total 

weight 

of  all 

Weight 

after 
cooking 

Total 

cooking 

loss, 

Minutes 

per 

pound 

for 

temper- 
ature 
when  re- 
moved 

mum 
interior 
temper- 

roasts 

from 
oven, 

ature 

roasts 

per  cent 

cooking 

reached, 

°c. 

lbs.      oz. 

lbs.      oz. 

°C. 

Prime  ribs, 

well  done 

3 

31       4 

24       10 

22.5 

14.6 

76 

80 

Prime  ribs, 

medium 

5 

60       9 

47       10 

21.7 

9.8 

65 

70 

Ham,  boiled 

5 

104       5 

82       12 

20.6 

17.4 

71 

74 

Ham, 

roasted 

7 

126     15 

94        7 

25.6 

14.1 

72 

77 

Veal,  leg. 

roast 

6 

107       2 

76        1 

29.0 

17.2 

71 

75 

Lamb,  leg, 

roast 

4 

26     11 

18       13 

28.0 

17.0 

79 

80 

Pork  loin, 

roast 

9 

74       5 

56        3 

26.3 

16.2 

83 

85 

Poultry 

Vernon  determined  the  shrinkage  in  dressing  and  cooking  poultry,  using 
fryers,  roasters,  and  hens.  Lowe  and  Vernon  determined  the  dressing  and 
cooking  losses  for  broilers,  fryers,  roasters,  capons,  and  hens.  All  the  poultry 
was  roasted  except  the  fryers  and  broilers.  The  broilers  were  broiled  under 
a  gas  flame  in  the  oven,  the  fryers  were  dredged  in  flour  and  fried  in  fat. 
In  frying,  the  lean  fryers  absorbed  fat,  and  the  fat  ones  lost  fat. 

The  inedible  portion  includes  the  weight  of  all  parts  of  the  fowls  served 
but  not  eaten. 


244 


MEAT 


TABLE  33 

Average  Amount  of  Waste  and  Percentage  Edible  of  Different  Kinds 

OF  Meat  {McElhin7iey) 


Waste 

Meat 

Per  cent 

Per  cent 

edible 
but  not 

Meat 
slicable 

edible 
on  as 

slicable 

Kind  of 

on  as 

meat 

Drip- 
pings 

Bone 

Skin 

slicable 

pur- 
chased 

pur- 
chased 

lbs.      oz. 

lbs. 

oz. 

lbs.      oz. 

lbs.       oz. 

lbs. 

oz. 

basis 

basis 

Prime  ribs. 

well  done 

3         4 

4 

2 

5       15 

13 

9 

62.4 

44.5 

Prime  ribs. 

medium 

6         1 

9 

12 

15         3 

22 

3 

61.2 

39.4 

Ham,  boiled 

10        3 

8 

14 

7        8 

18         8 

37 

12 

53.8 

36.2 

Ham, 

roasted 

29        6 

11 

8 

2        0 

21        0 

47 

13 

55.7 

37.8 

Veal,  leg. 

roast 

11        2 

9 

6 

12       12 

46 

7 

55.3 

43.3 

Lamb,  leg. 

roast 

6       13 

4 

3 

3        7 

9 

8 

48.5 

37.1 

Pork  loin 

9       11 

10 

8 

8        0 

31 

1 

51.0 

40.4 

TABLE  34 
Cost  of  Cooked  Edible  and  Slicable  Meat  {McEUmmey) 


Cost 

per 
pound 
as  pur- 
chased 

Cost  cooked 
edible  meat 

Cost  of  slicable 
meat 

Kind  of  meat 

per 
pound 

per 
4-ounce 
serving 

per 
pound 

per 
4-ounce 
serving 

Beef,  well  done 
Beef,  medium 
Ham,  boiled 
Ham,  roasted 
Veal,  leg,  roast 
Lamb,  leg,  roast 
Pork  loin,  roast 

cents 
25.0 
25.0 
30.0 
33.0 
28.0 
37.5 
27.0 

cents 
40.4 
42.1 
57.8 
60.5 
49.5 
81.7 
55.3 

cents 
10.1 
12.4 
14.4 
15.1 
12.4 
20.4 
13.8 

cents 
58.6 
65.2 
90.2 
88.3 
63.2 

107.4 
71.4 

cents 
14.7 
16.3 

22.5 
21.8 
15.8 
26.8 
17.8 

ROASTING  OF  POULTRY 


245 


TABLE  35 

Data  for  Dressing  and  Cooking  Losses  of  Different  Classes  of  Poultry 
Based  on  Per  Cent  of  Live  Weight  {Lowe  and  Vernon) 


Average 
all  classes 


Number  of  birds.  .  . . 

Dressed  weight 

Drawn  weight 

Cooked  weight 

Fat  loss 

Moisture  loss 

Total  cooking  loss  .  . 

Weight  of  inedible 
cooked  portion .  .  . 

Weight  of  cooked 
meat 

Weight  of  drippings, 

Weight  of  cooked 
meat  and  drip- 
pings   


Broilers 

Fryers 

Young 
roasters 

Capons 

Hens 

13 

14 

9 

10 

16 

89.1 

89.9 

88.9 

90.0 

92.0 

62.9 

67.8 

70.6 

75.6 

71.4 

45.2 

51.5 

55.8 

53.8 

49.2 

2.9 

9.2 

9.0 

10.1 

12.2 

12.3 

15.7 

14.6 

13.0 

21.4 

21.3 

12.8 

11.1 

14.2 

10.8 

10.6 

32.4 

39.4 

41.7 

42.9 

38.7 

0.6 

6.3 

13.2 

11.6 

33.0 

48.0 

56.1 

50.3 

62 

89.9 
69.6 
51.1 


17.2 
11.9 
39.0 


The  term  dressed  weight  is  used  as  in  poultry  classification  and  market- 
ing. A  dressed  bird  is  bled  and  has  the  feathers  removed.  Market  prices 
from  butcher  shops  are  usually  for  the  dressed  and  not  the  drawn  weight. 
The  drawn  weight  is  the  weight  after  removal  of  the  head,  feet,  and  diges- 
tive organs. 

As  given  in  Table  35,  the  average  losses  for  all  classes  of  poultry  are 
12,  20,  19,  and  12  per  cent  for  dressing,  drawing,  cooking,  and  inedible 
loss,  respectively.  Thus  the  cooked  meat  is  less  than  40  per  cent  of  the 
live  weight. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  buying  poultry  from  the  markets,  the  data 
in  the  preceding  table  are  given  in  the  following  table,  but  based  on  the 
drawn  weight,  which  makes  the  percentages  higher. 

Lowe  and  Keltner  found  that  the  edible  meat  without  skin,  based  on  the 
uncooked  weight  of  116  halves  of  roasters  as  prepared  for  the  oven,  aver- 
aged slightly  more  than  50  per  cent.  When  the  skin  was  included  the 
edible  portion  was  considerably  higher. 

The  cost  of  the  edible  meat  and  of  the  total  edible  portion  for  the  dif- 
ferent classes  of  poultry  given  in  Tables  35  and  36  is  given  in  Table  37. 

Roasting  of  poultry.  The  percentages  lost  in  cooking  poultry  reported 
by  Lowe  and  Vernon,  and  tabulated  in  Tables  35  and  36,  were  obtained 
by  roasting  the  chickens  in  tight-fitting  covered  roasters  at  250°C.  for  30 
minutes  and  then  the  temperature  was  lowered  to  175°C.  The  pans  were 


246 


MEAT 


TABLE  36 

Data  for  Dressing  and  Cooking  Losses  of  Different  Classes  of  Poultry 
Based  on  the  Drawn  Weight,  Per  Cent 


Number  of  birds.  .  .  . 

Drawn  weight 

Cooked  weight 

Fat  loss 

Moisture  loss 

Total  cooking  loss  .  . 

Weight  of  inedible 
cooked  portion.  .  . 

Weight  of  cooked 
meat 

Weight  of  drippings, 

Weight  of  cooked 
meat  and  drip- 
pings   


Broih 


U 
97.0 
71.8 


25.0 

20.3 

51.4 
1.0 

52.4 


Fryers 


14 
97.4 
75.9 


21.6 
17.6 
58.1 


Young 
roasters 


9 
97.5 
79.1 

4.1 
14.2 
18.3 

20.0 

59.0 
8.9 


67.9 


Capons 


10 
99.1 
71.1 
12.1 
16.2 
28.3 

14.3 

56.7 
17.5 


74.2 


H( 


16 
98.5 
68.8 
12.6 
17.1 
29.7 

14.9 

54.0 
16.3 


70.3 


Average 
all  classes 


62 
97.9 

73.3 


22.6 
17.4 

55.8 


TABLE  37 
Cost  of  Edible  Meat  for  Different  Classes  of  Poultry  {Lowe  and  Vernon) 


Live 
weight 
average, 
pounds 


Dressed 
weight 

average, 
pounds 


Cost  per 
pound 
dressed 
weijrht 


Cost  per 

pound 

cooked 

meat 


Cost  per 

pound 

edible 

meat  plus 

drippings 


Broilers. 
Fryers.  . 
Roasters 
Hens.  .  . 
Capons. 


1.87 
2.95 
4.51 
5.03 

7.38 


1.67 
2.66 
4.01 
4.63 
6.65 


$0.40 
0.34 
0.30 
0.31 
0.43 


$1,090 

.778 
.639 
.738 
.900 


$1,070 

.778 
.550 
.567 


uncovered  for  the  last  15  minutes  of  cooking  and  the  heat  increased  to 
brown  the  roasts.  In  the  covered  pans  used  in  these  experiments,  very  little 
browning  occurred  while  the  roasts  were  covered. 

Methods  and  cooking  temperatures.  In  roasting  poultry,  one  is  con- 
fronted with  the  problem  of  cooking  tender  and  less  tender  muscles  at  the 
same  time.  As  a  result,  when  the  breast  is  at  its  prime,  the  thigh  and  leg 


ROASTING  OF  POULTRY  247 

muscles  may  be  slightly  tough  and,  vice  versa,  when  the  thigh  and  leg  are 
cooked  sufficiently  to  soften  the  connective  tissue,  the  breast  is  past  its  prime 
and  is  becoming  dry. 

Another  problem  in  cooking  poultry  is  the  skin.  If  it  is  moist  and  tender, 
the  appearance  is  less  attractive  because  it  is  not  so  brown.  When  the  skin 
is  not  consumed  this  point  is  not  important. 

The  degree  of  fatness  and  its  distribution,  the  degree  of  post-mortem 
changes  or  ripening,  the  age,  and  the  size  may  affect  the  cooking  time  and 
losses  of  roasters.  In  addition,  breed,  sex,  and  the  feed  the  bird  has  received 
may  have  some  effect  on  these  factors.  Hence,  for  fair  experimental  tests 
the  cuts  should  be  paired.  To  do  this  Lowe  and  Keltner  divided  roasting 
chickens  into  halves,  the  halves  being  tested  one  against  the  other  to 
determine  the  effect  of  the  cooking  temperature,  covering  the  pan,  and 
basting  on  cooking  losses,  cooking  time,  and  palatability  of  the  meat.  They 
found  the  cooking  losses  were  practically  the  same  for  halves  cooked  at 
125°C.  (about  250°F.)  and  at  175°C.  (about  350°F.),  but  the  cooking 
time  at  the  lower  temperature  was  more  than  twice  as  long  as  at  the 
higher  temperature.  The  differences  in  palatability  scores  for  the  breast 
and  thigh  meat  cooked  at  the  two  temperatures  were  practically  negligible, 
with  the  exception  that  the  breast  scored  higher  in  juiciness  at  the  higher 
temperature,  which  was  probably  related  to  the  shorter  cooking  time.  One 
drawback  in  cooking  halves  of  birds  was  the  tendency  for  the  muscles  of 
the  breast  to  separate  and  draw  back,  which  is  of  course  not  encountered 
in  roasting  the  whole  bird.  In  all  these  tests  the  half  of  chicken  was  re- 
moved from  the  oven  when  the  interior  temperature  of  the  thigh  was 
85°C.  (185°F.). 

If  a  searing  instead  of  a  constant  temperature  method  is  desired,  cooking 
the  roast  uncovered  for  20  minutes  at  200°-230°C.  (about  395°-450°F.) 
and  then  lowering  the  temperature  to  125°C.  for  the  remainder  of  the 
cooking  period  produces  a  juicy  roast.  Covering  for  the  last  20  or  30  min- 
utes of  cooking  increases  the  tenderness  of  the  skin,  as  the  confined  steam 
moistens  the  skin. 

In  tests  of  the  searing  and  constant  temperature  methods  for  cooking 
turkeys,  in  an  uncovered  pan  and  basting  the  turkey  every  half  hour,  the 
constant  temperature  of  150°C.  (about  300°F.)  has  in  general  proved 
very  satisfactory,  the  meat  being  tender  and  very  juicy. 

Covered  and  uncovered  pans.  Lowe  and  Keltner  cooked  halves  of  22 
birds  covered,  the  other  halves  uncovered.  All  were  cooked  at  a  constant 
oven  temperature  of  150°C.  and  until  the  interior  temperature  of  the 
thigh  reached  85 °C.  The  cooking  time  was  approximately  twice  as  long  for 
uncovered  as  for  covered  halves.  The  total  and  volatile  cooking  losses  were 
greater  for  the  uncovered  halves,  but  the  drippings  were  greater  for  covered 
halves.  The  scores  showed  that  in  aroma,  flavor,  and  juiciness  the  breast 
of  the  uncovered  halves  was  more  desirable  than  the  breast  of  the  covered 


248  MEAT 

halves.  No  preference  for  the  thigh  was  shown  for  either  covered  or  un- 
covered halves. 

Covering  the  birds  for  the  last  20  minutes  of  the  cooking  period  short- 
ened the  cooking  time,  decreased  the  cooking  losses,  and  increased  the 
tenderness  and  palatability  of  the  skin  but  not  of  the  meat.  The  majority 
of  the  scorers  preferred  the  uncovered  halves. 

Interior  temperatures  for  cooking  poultry.  The  insertion  of  thermometers 
into  muscles  of  chicken  in  early  tests  was  not  satisfactory,  as  the  ther- 
mometer and  bulbs  were  too  large.  However,  it  was  found  that  the  larger 
thermometers  could  be  used  successfully  by  inserting  them  into  the  stuffing, 
either  through  the  front  or  rear  cavities  of  the  fowl.  For  turkeys  and  geese 
the  thicker  part  of  the  stuffing  is  towards  the  rear  of  the  carcass;  hence  it 
was  preferable  to  insert  the  thermometer  at  the  rear. 

Lowe  and  Keltner  used  in  their  study  a  small  light  thermometer  with  a 
very  short,  small  bulb.  Placing  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  into  the  thickest 
portion  of  the  thigh  muscles  and  cooking  the  chicken  until  a  temperature 
of  85 °C.  was  reached  proved  satisfactory.  The  most  desirable  temperature 
to  which  the  breast  muscles  should  be  cooked  has  not  been  determined. 
Since  the  breast  muscles  tended  to  separate  when  half  of  a  bird  was  cooked, 
thermometers  were  not  used  successfully  in  the  breast.  However,  in  the 
preliminary  studies  the  temperature  of  the  breast  was  usually  2°  to  4° 
higher  than  that  of  the  thigh. 

Evidently  the  meat  of  large  fowls  is  juicier  if  the  interior  temperature 
of  the  stuffing  is  lower  than  for  small  fowls.  This  is  probably  due  to  their 
size,  the  large  quantity  of  stuffing  that  they  hold  increasing  the  distance 
to  the  middle  of  the  stuffing. 

When  chickens  were  roasted  until  the  interior  temperature  of  the  stuffing 
reached  80°  to  83°C.,  the  meat  was  desirable;  but,  when  cooked  to  85°C., 
the  breast  of  some  birds  was  dry,  the  drippings  and  particularly  their 
moisture  content  increasing  rapidly  in  the  last  few  minutes  of  cooking. 
This  might  indicate  that  for  some  birds,  depending  somewhat  upon  degree 
of  ripening  and  other  factors,  this  is  a  critical  temperature.  As  this  point 
is  reached  or  exceeded,  the  tendency  for  the  meat  of  the  chicken  is  to 
become  dry  and  the  drippings  loss  to  increase. 

For  turkeys  weighing  16  to  20  pounds  after  stuffing,  an  interior  tempera- 
ture of  75°  to  82°C.  of  the  stuffing  resulted  in  juicy  meat.  But  for  turkeys 
weighing  25  to  30  pounds  after  stuffing  a  lower  temperature  gives  better 
results.  The  type  of  stuffing  used  may  make  some  difference  in  the  juiciness 
of  the  meat  and  the  cooking  losses.  Lowe  and  Keltner  found  that  stuffing 
made  from  1 -day-old  bread,  100  grams,  butter  50  grams,  and  salt  2  grams, 
but  without  the  addition  of  liquid,  absorbed  an  average  moisture  content 
of  41.5  per  cent.  The  amount  of  moisture  absorbed  varied  from  14.6  to 
78.1  per  cent. 

The  above  results  and  observations  in  cooking  of  poultry  suggest  that 
poultry  may  lose  moisture  rapidly  after  a  certain  temperature  is  reached, 


ROASTING  OF  POULTRY 


249 


with  the  result  that  the  meat  becomes  quite  dry.  This  loss  of  moisture 
seems  to  occur  most  rapidly  at  a  temperature  around  83°  to  85°C.  Some 
meats  may  become  dry  more  readily  within  a  short  range  of  temperature 
than  others.  Ostwald  states  that  *Tork  can  be  distinguished  from  other 
meats  by  the  fact  that  its  water  holding  capacity  suffers  the  least  change 
when  cooked  or  dried."  The  kind  of  food  the  bird  has  received  may  in- 
fluence the  juiciness  to  a  certain  degree. 

Basting.  Lowe  and  Keltner  found  that  basting  shortened  the  cooking 
period,  but  did  not  appreciably  affect  the  cooking  losses.  Butter  was  used 
for  basting.  The  salt  was  removed  by  washing,  the  butter  was  then  melted, 
and  the  curd  allowed  to  settle.  The  half  of  chicken  was  basted  before 
putting  in  the  oven,  at  the  end  of  30,  and  at  the  end  of  60  minutes,  a  total 
of  20  grams  of  butter  being  used.  Basting  increased  the  desirability  of  the 
lean  meat  of  both  the  thigh  and  breast. 

Time  of  cooking.  Roasters  weighing  4  to  5  pounds,  dressed  weight,  re- 
quire about  35  minutes  per  pound  to  cook  by  the  searing  method.  If  estimate 
is  based  on  the  stuffed  weight,  about  30  minutes  per  pound  is  necessary. 
But  considerable  variation  may  be  expected,  larger  roasters  requiring  a 
shorter  and  smaller  ones  a  longer  time.  For  the  constant  oven  temperature, 
150°C.  (about  300°F.),  approximately  the  same  time  will  be  required 
as  for  the  searing  method  though  again  considerable  variation  may  be 
expected. 

Table  38,  based  on  laboratory  results,  gives  approximate  time  for  roast- 
ing turkey  at  150°C.  Variation  from  this  time  will  of  course  be  found.  The 
time  given  is  for  uncovered  birds.  A. shorter  time  will  be  required  when 
the  roast  is  covered. 


TABLE  38 
Approximate  Time  for  Cooking  Turkey 


Turkey 

Weight  of 

stuffed  bird 

in  pounds 

Average  total 

cooking  time 

in  hours 

Average  time 
per  pound 
in  minutes 

Small 

6  to  10 
10  to  16 
18  to  23 

3       to  3>^ 
3K  to  4K 
4>^  to  6 

20  to  25 

Medium       

18  to  20 

Large 

16  to  18 

Effect  of  feed  on  fat  distribution.  Maw  has  investigated  the  effect  of 
cereals,  yellow  corn,  wheat,  oats,  and  barley  on  the  amount  and  nature 
of  the  fat  deposited  in  different  parts  of  the  body  (flesh,  abdominal  fat,  ex- 
ternal fat,  and  skin).  Flesh  as  used  was  composed  of  the  breast  and  leg 
muscles  with  external  fat  stripped  clean.  The  wheat  gave  an  excellent 
external  appearance  as  it  produced  an  external  layer  of  fat  over  the  carcass 


250 


MEAT 


but  relatively  little  fat  distributed  through  the  flesh.  Table  39  gives  his 
results : 

TABLE  39 
Distribution  of  Fat  in  the  Body  {Mazv) 


Cereal 

Percentage 
total  fat 

Fat  in 
flesh 

Fat  in 
skin 

Abdominal 
fat 

Corn 

Barley     

13.4 
12.1 
12.1 
12.9 

30 
26 
22 
20 

55 
59 
57 
60 

15 
15 

Oats 

21 

Wheat 

20 

Maw  states  that  the  fat  laid  down  in  the  carcass  is  replacing  the  moisture. 
This  fat  in  the  cooked  bird  influences  the  apparent  moistness  of  the  flesh. 
The  palatability  tests  indicated  the  corn-fed  birds  appeared  the  most  moist, 
with  the  best  flavor.  The  barley-fed  meat  was  nearly  like  the  corn-fed ; 
whereas  the  oat-fed  and  wheat-fed  meats  were  the  poorest  in  quality,  the 
wheat-fed  apparently  being  the  driest  and  poorest  in  flavor.  These  birds 
were  roasted  at  a  constant  temperature  of  375 °F. 

LITERATURE    CITED    AND    REFERENCES 

Alexander,  L.  M.,  and  Clark,  N.   G.     Shrinkage  and   Heat  Penetration  during  the 

Roasting    of    Lamb    and    Mutton    as    Influenced    by    Carcass    Grade,    Ripening 

Period,  and  Cooking  Method.     Tech.  Bull.  440.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.    (1934). 
Baker,  L.  C.     The   Constituents   of   Meat  Acting   as   Pointers   of   Change.     J.   Soc. 

Chem.  Ind.  54:  154T   (1935). 
Beard,   F.   J.      A    Study   of  Tough    and   Tender    Meat.     Master's  Thesis    (unpub- 
lished).    Iowa    State   College    (1924). 
Benson,   C.  C.     Hydrogen  Ion  Concentration  of  Fish   Muscle.     J.  Biol.   Chem.   78: 

583    (1928). 
Black,  W.   H.,   Warner,   K.   F.,  and  Wilson,   C.   V.     Beef   Production    and    Quality 

as    Affected    by    Grade    and    Steer    and    Feeding    Grain    Supplement.      U.    S. 

Dept.  Agri.     Tech.  Bull.  217    (1931). 
Bogue,   R.    H.      Chemistry   and   Technology   of   Gelatin    and    Glue.      McGraw-Hill 

Co.    (1922). 
Buerger,   L.,   and   Gies,   W.   J.     The   Chemical.  Constituents   of   Tendinous   Tissue. 

Am.  J.  Physiol.  6:  219    (1901-02). 
Burnett,    D.     The    Household    Refrigeration   of   the    Common    Cuts    of   Beef,    Pork, 

and  Lamb.     Thesis    (M.  S.),   unpublished.     Iowa  State  College    (1934), 
Burns,    D.      An    Introduction   to    Biophysics.     J.   &   A.    Churchill    (1929). 
Child,  A.  M.     Selection   and   Use   of  Pork  Cuts.     Bull.   254.     Agri.   Expt.    Sta.,   U. 

of  Minn.    (1929). 
Child,    A.    M.,    and    Baldelli,    M.      Press    Fluid    from    Heated    Beef    Muscle.      J. 

Agri.  Research  48:   1127    (1934). 
Child,  A.  M.,  and  Fogarty,  J.  A.     Effect  of  Interior  Temperatures  of  Beef  Muscle 

upon  the  Press  Fluid  and  Cooking  Losses.     J.  Agri.  Research   51:  655    (1935). 


REFERENCES  251 

Cooperative  Meat  Investigations.     ''Factors  Affecting  the  Quality  and  Palatability 

of  Meat."     See  Purnell  Act. 
Davis,  W.  C,  and  Whalin,  C.  V.     Market  Classes  and  Grades  of  Dressed  Beef. 

U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.  Bull.   1246    (1927). 
Davis,  W.  C,  and  Burgess,  J.  A.     Market  Classes  and  Grades  of  Dressed  Lamb 

and  Mutton.    U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.     Bull.  1470   (1927). 
Davis,  W.  C,  and  Harris,  C.  M.     Market  Classes  and  Grades  of   Dressed   Veal 

and  Calf  Carcasses.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.  Circular  103    (1930). 
Davis,  W.  C.      Beef  Grading  and  Stamping  Service.    Leaflet  No.  dl .     U.  S.  Dept. 

Agri.    (1930). 
Davis,  W.  C.     Market  Classes  and  Grades  of  Yearling  Beef.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri. 

Circular  208    (1932). 
Emmett,  A.   D.,   and   Grindley,   H.    S.     Chemistry   of   Flesh.      Seventh   Paper.     A 

Preliminary   Study  of    the    Effect   of    Cold    Storage    upon    Beef    and    Poultry. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  1:  413   (1909). 
Emmett,    A.    D.,    and    Grindley,    H.    S.      Chemistry   of    Flesh.     Eighth   Paper.      A 

Preliminary   Study   of   the    Effect   of    Cold    Storage    upon    Beef    and    Poultry. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  1:  580  (1909). 
Empey,   W.  A.     Studies   on   the  Refrigeration   of   Meat.      Conditions    Determining 

the    Amount   of    "Drip"    from    Frozen    and    Thawed    Muscle.      J.    Soc.   Chem. 

Ind.  52:  230T  (1933). 
Food   and    Drug   Administration.      Definitions    and    Standard    of    Food    Products. 

Service  and  Regulatory  Announcements.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.     Revision  4,  Aug. 

(1933). 
Gortner,  R.  A.     Outlines  of  Biochemistry.    John  Wiley  &  Sons   (1929). 
Gortner,  R.  A.,  Hoffman,  W.  F.,  and   Sinclair,  W.  B.     Physico-Chemical   Studies 

on    Proteins.      III.      Proteins    and    the    Lyotropic    Series.      Colloid    Symposium 

Monograph.     Vol.  V.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.   (1928). 
Grindley,   H.    S.,    and   Mojonnier,   T.     Experiments   on   Losses   in    Cooking   Meat. 

U.  S.   Dept.  Agri.,   Office  of  Experiment  Stations.     Bull.   141    (1904). 
Grindley,  H.  S.,  Mojonnier,  T.,  and  Porter,  H.  C.     Effect  of  Methods  of  Cooking 

upon  the  Thoroughness  and   Ease  of   Digestion  of  Meat.     U.   S.   Dept.   Agri., 

Office  of  Experiment  Stations.     Bull.  193    (1907). 
Grindley,  H,  S.,  and  Sprague,  E.  C.     A  Precise  Method  of  Roasting  Beef.     U,  of 

Illinois.     University  Studies.     Vol.  2,  No.  4   (1907). 
Hammond,  J.     Growth   and  the   Development  of  Mutton   Qualities   in  the   Sheep. 

Oliver  &  Boyd,  London   (1932). 
Hardy,  W.     Some  Recent  Developments  in  Low  Temperature  Research.     J.   Soc. 

Chem.  Ind.  52:  46   (1933). 
Helser,  M.  D.     Farm  Meats.     The  Macmillan  Co.   (1923). 
Helser,   M.   D.,   Nelson,   P.   M.,   Lowe,   B.,    and    Helser,    M.   D.     Influence   of   the 

Animal's  Age  upon  the   Quality  and  Palatability  of  Beef.     Iowa   State    Col- 
lege, Agri.  Expt.  Sta.     Bull.  272   (1930). 
Hoagland,   R.      Formation   of   Hematoporphyrin   in   Ox   Muscle    During   Autolysis. 

J.  Agri.  Research  7:  41    (1916). 
Hoagland,  R.,  McBryde,  C,   and  Powick,  W.  C.     Changes   in   Fresh  Beef  During 

Cold   Storage  Above   Freezing.      U.    S.   Dept.   Agri.     Bull.   433    (1917). 
Howe,  P.  E.     The  Differential  Extraction  and  Precipitation  of  the  Soluble  Proteins 

of   Muscle,   with    Data   on   the   Calf,    Cow,    and   Rabbit.     J.   Biol.    Chem.    61: 

493    (1924). 
Howe,  P.  E.     The  Palatability  of  Meat.     J.  Home  Econ.  19:  8    (1927). 
Howell,  W.   H.     A  Textbook   of  Physiology.     W.  B.   Saunders   Co.      (1927). 
James,  R.  F.     Mold  and  Bacteria  Killed  by  New  Lamp.     Food  Ind.  8:  259   (1936). 
Johnson,   L.,    and   Thille,   M.     The   Effect   of   Fat    on   the    Heat    Conductivity   and 

Composition  of  Beef  Roasted  under  Controlled  Conditions.     Food   and  Nutri- 


252  MEAT 

tion  Section.     Am.  Home  Econ.  Assoc.  Abstracts  of  Reports.     Asheville,  N.  C. 
(1927). 
Kennedy,   R.   P.,   and   Whipple,   H.   J.     The   Identity  of  Muscle   Hemoglobin   and 

Blood  Hemoglobin.     Am.  J.  Physiol.  76:  685    (1926). 
Lowe,  B.,   and   Vernon,   W.   M.     Poultry   for   the   Table    as   Influenced   by   Market 

Class  and  Grade.     Poultry  Sci.  6:  51    (1926-27). 
Lowe,  B.     Mechanical  Measurement  of  the  Tenderness  of  Raw  and  Cooked  Beef. 

Thesis    (M.  S.),  unpublished,   U.  of  Chicago    (1934). 
Lowe,  B.,   and  Keltner,   F.     Studies  in  Cooking  Frozen   Poultry.     Expt.   Sta,   Proj- 
ect, Iowa   State   College    (unpublished). 
Maw,  W.  A.     How   Quality  in   Poultry  Meat  Is  Affected   by   the    Distribution   of 

Fat  in  the  Carcass.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.     41:  May  32-36,  July  16-19 

(1935). 
Maw,  W.  A.,  Holcomb,  R.,  Rodger,  E.  E.,  and  Franklin,  A.  M.     The  Relationship 

of  the  Distribution  of  Body  Fat  to  the  Cooking  Losses  with   Graded   Dressed 

Poultry.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  41:  276    (1936). 
McElhinney,   E.   Z.      Shrinkage    and    Carving  Waste    in   Large    Quantity    Cookery. 

Master's  Thesis    (unpublished).     Iowa  State  College    (1927). 
Mitchell,  H.  H.,  Beadles,  J.  R.,   and  Kruger,  J.  H.     The  Relation  of  the   Connec- 
tive Tissue  Content  of  Meat  to  Its  Protein  Value  in  Nutrition.     J.  Biol.  Chem. 

73:  767   (1927). 
Mitchell,    H.   H.,    Hamilton,   T.   S.,    and    Haines,   T.   W.      Some    Factors    Affecting 

the  Connective  Tissue   Content  of  Beef   Muscle.     J.   Nutrition    1:   165    (1929). 
Mitchell,   H.  H.,  Zimmerman,  R.  L.,   and   Hamilton,  T.   S.     The   Determination  of 

the  Amount  of  Connective  Tissue   in   Meat.     J,   Biol.   Chem.   71:  379    (1927). 
Monroe,    D.,    and    Van    Arsdale,    M.    B.      The    Possibilities    of    Roasts.      Teachers 

College  Record   18:  161,   345    (1917). 
Moran,   T.,    and    Smith,    E.    C.      Post-Mortem    Changes    in   Animal    Tissues.     The 

Conditioning  or  Ripening  of  Beef.     Great  Brit.,  Dept.  Scientific  and  Industrial 

Research.     Food  Investigation  Special  Report,  No.  36    (1929). 
Moran,  T.     The   Freezing,   Storage,    and   Thawing  of   Meat.      Food    Manufacture 

9:    193    (1934). 
Moran,  T.     Rapid  Freezing  of  Meat.     Report  Food  Investigation  Board  for  1933. 

Great  Brit.,   Dept.  Scientific   and   Industrial  Research. 
Moran,  T.     Post-Mortem  and  Refrigeration  Changes  in  Meat.     J.  Soc.  Chem.  Ind. 

54:  149T    (1935). 
Morgan,    A.   F.,    and    Nelson,    P.    M.      A    Study   of    Certain   Factors    Affecting   the 

Shrinkage   and   Speed  in  the  Roasting  of  Meat.     J.   Home  Econ.   18:   371    and 

444   (1926). 
Needham,  D.  M.    Red  and  White  Muscle.    Physiological  Reviews  6:  1   (1926). 
Noble,    I.    T.,    Halliday,    E.    G.,    and    Klaas,    H.    K.      Studies    on   Tenderness    and 

Juiciness  of  Cooked   Meat.     J.  Home  Econ.  26:  238    (1934). 
Ostwald,  W.     Theoretical  and  Applied  Colloid  Chemistry.     Translation  by  M.  H. 

Fischer.     John  Wiley   &   Sons    (1922). 
Purnell   Act.      U.    S.    Congress.     Act   to    authorize   the    more   complete    endowment 

of   Agricultural    Experiment    Station    and    for   other    purposes,    approved    Feb. 

24,    1925     (known    as    the    Purnell   Act).      In    U.    S.    Congress    at    large,    68th 

Congress,   2nd   Sess.,   Vol.  43,  part  1,   Chapter  308,   pp.   970-972.     Washington 

(1925). 
Ransom,   B.    H.      The    Effects    of    Refrigeration    upon    the    Larvae    of    Trichinella 

Spiralis.     J.  Agri.  Research  5:  819    (1916). 
Ransom,   B.   H.,   and   Schwartz,   B.     Effects   of   Heat   on   Trichinae.      J.   Agri.  Re- 
search  17:  201    (1919). 
Redfield,   G.   M.     Heat  Penetration  in   Glass  in  Home  Canning.     Master's  Thesis 

(unpublished).     Iowa  State  College    (1927). 


MEAT  253 

Richardson,  W.  D.,  and  Scherubel,  E.  F.,  II.  Storage  of  Beef  at  Temperatures 
above  the  Freezing  Point.  The  Deterioration  and  Commercial  Preserva- 
tion of  Flesh  Foods.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  1:  95   (1909). 

Smith,  E,  C.  B.  Physiology  of  Muscle  Proteins.  Exhaustive  Extraction  of  Mus- 
cle with  Salt  Solutions  and  Dilute  Acids.  Report  Food  Investigation  Board 
for  1934,  p.  19.     Great  Brit.,  Dept.  Scientific  and  Industrial  Research. 

Smith,  E.  C.  B.  Rigor  Mortis — Changes  in  Solubility  of  Proteins  during  Rigor. 
Report  Food  Investigation  Board  for  1934,  p.  20.  Great  Brit.,  Dept.  Scien- 
tific and   Industrial  Research. 

Smith,  E.  C.  B.  Effect  of  Temperature  on  the  Rate  of  Onset  of  Rigor.  Report 
Food  Investigation  Board  for  1934,  p.  21. 

Smith,  E.  C.  B.  Extracellular  Proteins.  Report  Food  Investigation  Board  for 
1935.     Dept.  Scientific  and  Industrial  Research. 

Smith,  E.  C.  B.     The  Proteins  of  Meat.     J.  Soc.  Chem.  Ind.  54:  152T   (1935). 

Snyder,  C.  G.  The  Effect  of  Salt  on  Total  Cooking  Losses  of  Various  Cuts  of 
Beef.     Master's   Thesis    (unpublished).      Iowa    State    College    (1930). 

Snyder,  C.  G.  Drawn  or  Undrawn?  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  38:  18,  June 
(1932). 

Sorensen,  S.  P.  L.  Proteins.  Lectures  given  in  United  States  in  1924.  The 
Fleischmann  Laboratories    (1925). 

Stansby,  M.  E.,  and  Griffith,  F.  P.  Carbon  Dioxide  in  Handling  of  Fresh  Fish. 
Ind.  Eng.   Chem.  27:  1452    (1935). 

Tressler,  D.  K.  Freezer  Burn  on  Refrigerated  Poultry.  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry 
Mag.  41:  33,  Sept.    (1933). 

Trowbridge,  P.  F.      (Personal  Communication)    1936. 

Van  Arsdale,  M.  B.,  and  Monroe,  D.  Experiments  Comparing  the  Cost  of  Meat 
as   Purchased   and    Eaten.     Teachers    College   Record    18:    38    (1917). 

Vandergrift,  G.  W.,  and  Gies,  W.  J.  The  Composition  of  Yellow  Connective 
Tissue.     Am.  J.   of  Physiology   5:  287    (1901). 

Vernon,  W.  M.  Losses  Sustained  in  Preparing  Poultry  for  the  Table.  Poultry 
Sci.  3:  187    (1924). 

Vrooman,  C.  H.  Heat  Rigor  in  Vertebrate  Muscle.  Biochemical  J.  2:  3'63 
(1906-07). 

Whipple,  G.  H.  The  Hemoglobin  of  Striated  Muscle,  I.  Variation  Due  to 
Age  and  Exercise.  Am.  J.  of  Physiology  76:  693  (1926);  II.  Variations 
Due  to  Anemia   and  Paralysis.     Am.  J.  of  Physiology  76:  708    (1926). 

Whipple,  G.  H.,  and  Robscheitt-Robbins.  III.  Muscle  Hemoglobin  as  a  Source 
of  Bile  Pigment.    Am.  J.  of  Physiology  78:  675   (1926). 

MEAT 

Experiment  37. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  muscle  fiber  and  connective  tissue  of  cooking  by 
dry  heat. 

Scrape  a  piece  of  lean  meat  with  the  dull  edge  of  a  knife  until  the  connective 
tissue  and  fiber  are  separated.  Save  a  portion  of  the  fiber  and  connective  tissue 
to  use  In  Experiment  38.  Form  In  small  balls  and  cook  In  a  hot  frying  pan. 
What  Is  the  effect  of  dry  heat  on  the  connective  tissue?  On  the  fiber?  Which 
is  affected  the  most? 

Experiment  38. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  muscle  fiber  and  connective  tissue  of  cooking  by 
moist  heat. 


254 


MEAT 


1.  Cook  a  portion  of  the  fiber  and  the  connective  tissue  in  boiling  water. 
If  the  water  evaporates,  add  boiling  water. 

2.  Cook  a  portion  of  the  muscle  fiber  and  the  connective  tissue  in  water. 
Do  not  let  the  temperature  of  the  water  go  above  85°C.  Compare  the  texture 
of  the  fiber  and  the  connective  tissue  from  Experiment  37  with  Experiment  38, 
1  and  2.  What  temperature  would  be  best  to  cook  a  piece  of  meat  containing 
a  great  deal  of  connective  tissue  to  soften  the  connective  tissue,  yet  keep  the 
muscle  fibers  tender? 


Texture 

Time  to  cook 

Fibers 

Connective  tissue 

Fibers 

Connective  tissue 

Results  and  conclusions. 


Beef  Roasts 


Experiment  39. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  beef  roasts  of  cooking  to  different  stages  of 
doneness. 

1.  PreparatioTi.  Weigh  the  roast.  Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  A  tracing  may 
be  made  of  the  cut  surfaces  of  the  meat.  Determine  the  place  and  depth  for 
insertion  of  the  thermometer.  Measure  the  width  of  the  roast.  The  thermometer 
is  inserted  half  way.  See  Fig.  23,  p.  225.  To  determine  the  depth  to  insert  the 
thermometer,  measure  the  distance  on  the  two  cut  surfaces  as  indicated  in 
Fig.  25,  diagram  D,  p.  234.  The  distance  should  be  the  diameter  of  a  circle,  so 
that  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  can  be  inserted  equally  distant  from  the  top, 
the  chine  bone,  and  the  bottom  of  the  roast.  If  the  depth  on  one  cut  surface  is 
4  inches  and  on  the  other  4^^  inches,  use  an  average  of  these  two,  or  4^ 
inches,  for  the  distance  represented  by  the  diameter  of  the  circle.  Measure 
up  from  the  center  of  the  thermometer  bulb  2]/^  inches  on  the  stem  and 
insert  to  this  depth  in  the  roast.  The  incision  for  the  thermometer  should  be 
made  with  a  very  narrow  knife  blade,  about  %  Inch  in  width,  or  a  skewer 
so  that  the  meat  will  fit  tightly  around  the  thermometer.  For  a  rolled  roast 
find  the  radius  (one-half  of  the  diameter)  and  Insert  the  center  of  ther- 
mometer bulb  to  this  depth  In  the  middle  between  the  two  ends  of  the  roast. 

Weigh  the  thermometer  and  the  cooking  pan.  Use  an  open  pan.  A  common, 
sheet-Iron  pan  Is  suitable  for  roasting.  A  standing-rib  roast  rests  on  the  chine 
bone  and  rib  ends,  which  keeps  the  roast  above  the  drippings.  See  Fig.  23. 
A  rolled  roast  Is  laid  on  a  rack  with  the  fat  side  up.  No  water  or  seasoning 
are  added.  Record  the  inner  temperature  of  the  roast  and  oven  at  definite 
Intervals,  10,  15,  or  20  minutes,  during  the  cooking  period.  Cook  by  one  of 
the  following  methods.  If  paired  roasts  are  used,  one  may  be  cooked  by  a 
searing,  the  other  by  a  constant  temperature  method. 


BEEF  ROASTS 


255 


Searing  method.  For  experimental  comparisons  sear  the  roast  for  20  minutes 
at  250°-275°C.  (about  480°-525°F.)  and  transfer  at  the  end  of  20  minutes 
to  an  oven  at  125 °C.  (about  255 °F.).  For  a  searing  method  suitable  for  the 
home,  sear  at  220°C.  (about  425°F.)  for  20  minutes,  then  set  the  regulator 
for  125°C.  (about  255°F.). 

Constant  tetnperature  fuethod.  Place  the  roast  in  an  oven  with  temperature 
of  150°C.  (about  300°F.). 

Cook  the  roast  until  the  thermometer  registers  55°C.  (131°F.).  Note 
exterior  appearance  on  removal  from  the  oven.  Note  and  record  any  change 
in  interior  temperature  of  the  roast.  When  the  temperature  is  constant,  weigh 
the  roast.  Weigh  pan  and  drippings.  Cut  the  roast  through  the  center.  Describe 
its  condition,  its  color,  and  uniformity  of  color  throughout  the  roast,  its  sheen 
and  amount  of  juice  on  the  surface.  Score  for  tenderness,  flavor,  and  juiciness. 

If  the  volatile  and  drippings  losses  in  the  oven  are  to  be  determined  sepa- 
rately from  those  after  removal  from  the  oven,  the  roast  is  weighed  at  the 
time  it  is  removed  from  the  oven  and  transferred  to  a  weighed  platter.  When 
the  maximum  temperature  is  reached,  the  roast  is  reweighed  to  determine 
the  volatile  loss  during  the  interval  after  removal  from  the  oven  and  attain- 
ment of  maximum  interior  temperature.  The  platter  is  reweighed  to  determine 
the  drippings  collected  outside  the  oven. 

Samples  for  scoring.  For  scoring  cut  off  the  outside  slice  and  lay  aside,  as 
the  browned  part  will  afFect  the  flavor.  Cut  as  many  slices  as  there  are  people 
to  score.  Cut  from  the  same  position  in  each  roast  and  be  sure  that  the  same 
person  gets  slice  1  from  all  roasts,  etc.  If  slices  are  very  large  they  may  be 
divided,  but  the  same  portion  of  each  muscle  should  be  given  to  the  same 
scorer. 

Determine  the  percentage  lost  during  cooking,  the  dripping  loss  and  the  vola- 
tile loss.  Plot  on  graph  paper  the  rise  in  inner  temperature  of  the  roast,  during 
cooking  and  after  removal  from  the  oven.  The  weight  of  the  bones  and  the 
per  cent  edible  may  also  be  determined.-  Calculate  the  time  per  pound  required 
for  cooking. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  do  not  remove  the  roast  from  the  oven  until  the  inner 
temperature  is  63°C.  (145°F.).  If  desired  the  roast  can  be  removed  when  the 
interior  temperature  reaches  61  °C.  Compare  with  1  for  color,  juiciness,  tender- 
ness, flavor,  loss  of  weight,  and  rise  of  temperature  after  removal  from  the 
oven. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  do  not  remove  from  the  oven  until  the  inner  temperature 
is  75°C.  Compare  with  1   and  2. 

The  following  headings  are  suggested  for  records  and  may  be  used  in  all  the 
following  experiments,  unless  otherwise  suggested.  Where  several  roasts  are  to 
be  cooked  it  is  better  to  have  mimeographed  sheets  for  making  records. 


Weight  before 
cooking 

Weight 

after 

cooking, 

grams 

Total 

loss, 

grams 

Fat 

loss, 

grams 

Volatile 

loss, 

grams 

Total 

loss, 

per  cent 

Fat 
loss, 

grams 

pounds 

per  cent 

r 


I 


II  ■ 


fi-.&^-^n.,^-..  --K  ''JJ- 


*^,  C- 


U 


256 


MEAT 


Interior 

Time  after 

Volatile 

loss, 
per  cent 

temperature 
when 

Maximum 
temperature 

removal 
from  oven  to 

Total 
time  of 

Time  of 
cooking 

removed 
from  oven, 

reached, 

«c. 

obtain 
maximum 

cooking, 
minutes 

per  pound, 
minutes 

°C. 

temperature 

Weight  of 
edible 

Edible 
portion, 
per  cent 

Color 

Tender- 
ness 

cooked 

portion, 

grams 

exterior 

interior 

Juici- 
ness 

Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  40. 

To  determine  the  rate  of  temperature  rise  near  the  surface  of  the  roast  as 
compared  w^ith  the  center  of  the  roast. 

1.  Repeat  Experiment  39,1,  but  place  a  second  thermometer  ^  inch  from 
the  surface  of  the  roast.  Take  the  readings  on  both  thermometers  every  10 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  when  the  temperature  at  the  center  is  55°C. 
Continue  to  record  the  changes  in  temperature.  What  differences  do  you  note 
in  the  changes  of  temperature  in  the  two  portions  of  the  roast?  Plot  on  graph 
paper  the  rise  in  temperature  in  the  two  portions  of  the  roast.  Compute  losses 
and  make  records  as  suggested  under  Experiment  39. 

Experiment  41. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  cooking  at  different  temperatures  on  standing 
beef  rib  roasts. 

Three  pairs  of  two-rib  roasts  can  be  obtained  from  one  carcass,  the  pairs 
consisting  of  ribs  11  and  12,  9  and  10,  and  7  and  8.  These  pairs  can  be  used 
to  compare  the  cooking  losses,  the  exterior  and  interior  color,  the  juiciness, 
tenderness,  and  flavor  of  roasts  cooked  at  various  temperatures.  See  the 
following  suggestions.  Cook  the  roasts  to  the  same  interior  temperature,  63°C. 
(If  desired  either  55°C.  or  75°C.  may  be  used.) 

1.  a.  Use  a  constant  oven  temperature  of  125°C.  for  cooking  one  roast  of 
the  pair. 

b.  Cook  the  other  roast  at  a  constant  temperature  of  225°C. 

2.  Compare  the  effect  of  constant  oven  temperatures  of  125°C.  and   175°C. 

3.  Repeat  (2)  but  compare  125°C.  and  150°C.  I 

4.  Repeat  (2)  but  compare  150°C.  and  175°C. 


LAMB,  PORK,  AND  VEAL  ROASTS  257 

5.  Repeat  (2)  but  compare  150°C.  and  225°C. 

6.  Use  the  experimental  searing  method  (20  minutes  at  250°-275°C.,  then 
transfer  the  roast  to  a  second  oven  at  125°C.)  with  a  constant  temperature 
of  125°C. 

7.  Repeat  (6)  but  compare  the  searing  method  and  a  constant  temperature 
of  150°C. 

The  lower  searing  temperature  may  be  substituted  for  the  experimental 
searing  method  in  any  of  the  above  suggestions.  In  addition  the  experimental 
searing  method  may  be  used  with  temperatures  of  150°C.  and  175°C.  to  com- 
plete the  cooking. 

If  rolled  instead  of  standing  rib  roasts  are  used,  they  should  be  placed  on 
racks  to  keep  them  above  the  drippings.  Compute  losses  and  make  records  as 
suggested  under  Experiment  39. 

What  is  the  interior  temperature  of  a  roast  which  is  rare?  Of  a  medium 
well-done  roast?  Of  a  well-done  roast?  In  each  case  what  was  the  number  of 
minutes  per  pound  required  for  roasting?  What  is  the  effect  of  increasing  the 
size  of  the  roast  on  the  time  required  per  pound?  How  much  did  the  inner 
temperature  of  roasts  rise  after  removal  from  the  oven?  What  factors  cause 
variations  in  this  rise  in  temperature?  If  a  rare  roast  is  to  be  served  immedi- 
ately, at  what  temperature  would  you  remove  it  from  the  oven?  Is  the  rate  of 
increase  of  inner  temperature  of  the  different  roasts  constant? 

Lamb,  Pork,  and  Veal  Roasts 

Experiment  42. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  roasts  of  cooking  at  different  temperatures. 

Use  roasts  of  lamb,  pork,  and  veal,  but  if  possible  the  roasts  should  be 
paired;  that  is,  use  the  same  cuts  from  the  right  and  left  sides  of  the  same 
carcass.  Make  tracings  of  cut  surfaces  of  the  roasts.  Make  a  record  of  width. 
Determine  the  total,  the  dripping,  and  the  volatile  losses.  Calculate  the  time 
of  cooking  per  pound.  Find  the  rise  of  inner  temperature  after  removal  from 
the  oven.  Compare  the  roasts  for  juiciness,  flavor,  and  tenderness.  Record  the 
inner  temperature  of  roasts  and  ovens  at  the  same  intervals  used  in  Experi- 
ment 29  and  plot  on  graph  paper.  Make  records  as  suggested  under  Experi- 
ment 39. 

For  all  the  following  roasts  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  should  be  placed 
in  the  center  of  the  thickest  portion  of  the  roast,  which  is  not  necessarily  the 
center  of  the  piece  of  meat.  If  a  loin  roast  of  pork  is  used  the  thermometer 
bulb  should  be  in  the  center  of  the  large  muscle  along  the  backbone. 

A.  Lamb. 

Preparation.  Weigh  the  roast.  Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Insert  the  ther- 
mometer bulb  into  the  thickest  portion  of  the  leg.  Use  two  rulers  held  at  right 
angles  to  each  other  to  determine  the  depth  of  inserting  the  thermometer  bulb. 
Place  the  roast  on  a  rack  in  a  weighed,  open  pan  so  the  skin  side  or  fell  side 
is  down  if  a  leg  of  lamb  is  used,  and  up  if  a  shoulder  roast  is  used.  Record 
the  temperature  of  roast  and  place  in  oven  without  addition  of  water  or 
seasonings.  Cook  to  an  interior  temperature  of  75°C. 

1.  Use  the  constant  150°C.  oven  temperature.  Cook  one  leg  of  lamb  with 
the  fell  removed  but  leave  the  fell  on  the  other  leg  of  this  pair. 


258  MEAT 

2.  For  paired  roasts  use  any  of  the  cooking  temperatures  suggested  under 
Experiment  41. 

B.  Pork  loin. 

Preparation.  Weigh  the  roasts.  Insert  the  thermometer  in  the  same  manner 
as  for  beef-rib  roasts.  Place  the  roast  with  fat  side  up  on  a  rack  in  a  weighed 
pan.  Cook  to  an  interior  temperature  of  84°C. 

Searing  method.  Because  of  the  long  time  required  to  cook  pork  roasts,  a 
temperature  of  150°C.  was  used  for  the  temperature  of  cooking  in  the  second 
oven  after  searing  at  250°-255°C-  for  20  minutes  with  the  experimental 
searing  method. 

1.  For  paired  roasts  use  any  of  the  cooking  temperatures  suggested  under 
Experiment  41,  but  use  the  higher  cooking  temperature  with  the  experimental 
searing  method. 

C.  Veal. 

Preparation.  Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  other  roasts.  Place  on  a  rack 
in  an  open  pan.  The  cut  used  for  roasting  in  the  Cooperative  Meat  Investiga- 
tions is  a  section  of  the  thigh  about  4  inches  wide  cut  through  the  femur  just 
inside  the  end  of  the  enlarged  joint.  Cook  to  an  interior  temperature  of  71°C. 

1.  For  paired  roasts  use  any  of  the  cooking  temperatures  suggested  under 
Experiment  41. 

Experiment  43. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  roasts  of  lamb,  pork,  and  veal  of  cooking  to 
different  stages  of  doneness. 

Follow  the  directions  under  Experiment  42  and  cook  roasts  of  veal,  lamb, 
and  pork.  Cook  by  the  constant  temperature  (150°C.)  method  and  vary  the 
interior  temperatures  to  which  the  roasts  are  cooked  as  follows: 

Lamb:  71°,  75°-76°,  and  83°C. 
Pork:  78°,  83°-84°,  and  88°C. 
Veal:      71°,  75°,  and  80°C. 

Steaks  and  Chops 

Experiment  44. 

Steaks. 

To  determine  the  effect  upon  steaks  of  cooking  by  different  methods  and  to 
different  interior  temperatures. 

Rib,  porterhouse,  sirloin,  or  round  steak  may  be  used.  Steaks  for  compara- 
tive tests  by  the  Cooperative  Meat  Investigators  are  cut  2  incRes  thick.  Steaks 
1   to  15<4  inches  in  thickness  are  satisfactory  for  class  work. 

Preparation.  Weigh  the  steak.  Make  a  tracing  of  the  cut  surfaces.  Measure 
the  thickness.  Insert  a  weighed  thermometer,  so  that  the  bulb  is  midway,  i.e., 
y2  inch  from  the  top  and  from  the  bottom  of  a  steak  1  inch  thick.  A  right- 
angle  thermometer  should  be  used  for  steaks  to  be  pan-broiled,  but  either  a 
tube  or  right  angle  may  be  used  for  broiled  steaks.  Steaks  may  be  turned  at 
regular   intervals   or   only  once.    If   turned   only   once,   Cline   suggests   turning 


STEAKS  AND  CHOPS  259 

the  steak  when  about  three-fifths  of  the  expected  temperature  rise  has  oc- 
curred. If  the  temperature  of  the  steak  is  10°  and  it  is  to  be  cooked  to  an 
interior  temperature  of  60°,  the  temperature  rise  will  be  50°,  and  three-fifths 
of  50  equals  30.  Thus  the  steak  will  be  turned  when  the  inner  temperature 
is  about  40°C.  To  turn,  stick  a  fork  into  the  flank  muscle,  connective  tissue, 
or  firm  fat  and  not  into  one  of  the  principal  muscles. 

Keep  a  record  of  the  interior  temperature  of  the  steaks  at  regular  intervals. 
Note  and  record  the  temperature  rise  after  cooking  is  stopped.  Plot  on  graph 
paper.  Record  the  time  for  cooking  and  minutes  seared  on  each  side  (if  searing 
is  used).  Compute  the  total,  the  volatile,  and  drippings  losses. 

Compare  the  steaks  for  exterior  appearance,  interior  color,  juiciness,  flavor, 
and  tenderness.  In  preparing  samples  for  testing,  be  sure  the  scorer  gets  the 
same  slice  from  each  steak. 

Cook  all  steaks  to  an  interior  temperature  of  61  °C. 

A.  Method  of  cooking. 

1.  Broiled.  Weigh  the  broiling  pan  and  rack.  Place  pan  so  that  the  top  of 
the  steak  will  be  about  4  inches  below  the  flame.  A  fireless  cooker  ther- 
mometer may  be  placed  at  the  left  front  on  the  first  two  rods.  Heat  the  broiler 
pan  and  rack  until  the  fireless  cooker  thermometer  registers  about  175°C. 
Place  steak  on  rods  in  the  center  of  the  pan  with  thermometer  at  the  right- 
hand  side  and  broil  until  the  desired  temperature  for  turning  is  reached.  Turn 
so  that  the  thermometer  is  still  at  the  right-hand  side.  Turn  the  thermometer 
so  the  reading  scale  is  up.  Remove  when  the  desired  interior  temperature  is 
reached.  Note  temperature  rise.  When  the  maximum  temperature  is  reached, 
weigh  the  steak  and  the  broiler  pan  and  drippings. 

For  variation  in  temperature  of  broiled  steaks,  lower  or  raise  the  top  of 
the  steak  farther  from  or  nearer  to  the  flame. 

2.  Pan  broil.  Sear  on  each  side  in  a  hot  skillet.  Turn.  Lower  heat  and  cook 
slowly  until  the  temperature  for  turning  is  reached.  Turn  and  cook  until  the 
desired  interior  temperature  is  reached.  Remove  and  follow  directions  under  (1 ). 

3.  Pan  broil.  Repeat  (2)  but  use  a  constant  temperature  for  cooking. 

B.  Varying  the  interior  temperature  to  which  steak  is  cooked. 

1.  Use  the  same  method  for  cooking  all  steaks.  Follow  directions  under  A 
and  cook  until  the  interior  temperature  reaches  rare,  55°  to  57°C. 

2.  Repeat   (1)   but  cook  medium  well  done,  61  °C. 

3.  Repeat   (1)   but  cook  well  done,  71  °C. 

C.  Thickness  of  the  steak. 

Cook  by  the  same  method  and  to  the  interior  temperature  decided  upon  by 
the  class.  Compare  the  cooking  losses  and  time  of  cooking. 

1.  Use  a  steak  ^  inch  thick.  (Cannot  use  thermometer.) 

2.  Repeat  (1)  but  use  a  1-inch  thick  steak. 

3.  Repeat  (1)  but  use  a  steak  cut  1^^  inches  thick. 

Chops. 

Repeat  any  of  the  above  experiments  using  chops  of  pork,  lamb,  or  veal. 
Cook  pork  chops  to  an  interior  temperature  of  80°C.,  lamb  to  75°C.,  and 
veal  to  71°C. 


260  MEAT 

Less  Tender  Cuts 

Experiment  45. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  various  factors  in  cooking  less  tender  cuts  of 
meat. 

Braising.  Cuts.  Use  paired  cuts.  Cuts  from  the  neck,  flank,  rump,  round, 
or  particular  muscles  from  the  round  such  as  the  semitendinosus  may  be  used. 
One  piece  is  cut  from  the  right,  and  a  second  piece  of  the  same  size  and 
from  the  same  position  from  the  left  side  of  the  carcass.  Pieces  weighing 
about  1  to  1^  pounds  are  satisfactory  for  class  work. 

Preparation.  Weigh  the  pieces.  Each  member  of  the  class  cooks  a  pair  of  cuts. 
Everything,  as  nearly  as  possible,  should  be  standardized,  except  the  variable 
being  tested.  For  example,  if  the  effect  of  pounding  is  to  be  determined,  both 
pieces  may  be  seared  but  only  one  should  be  pounded. 

Add  2  grams  of  salt  per  pound  of  meat.  Add  ^  cup  of  liquid  per  pound 
and  more  if  necessary,  but  keep  a  record  of  the  amount  added.  With  larger 
pieces  of  meat  a  relatively  smaller  proportion  of  liquid  may  be  added.  If 
necessary  to  add  water,  have  it  boiling. 

Use  covered  containers,  of  a  size  suitable  for  the  pieces  of  meat  being 
cooked,  such  as  casseroles,  Dutch  ovens,  skillets,  etc.  For  some  experiments 
both  pieces  of  the  pair  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  container,  one  or  both 
pieces  being  marked  with  a  metal  tag  or  with  tooth  picks.  For  other  tests 
separate  utensils  will  need  to  be  used  for  each  piece  of  meat. 

Determine  only  the  total  cooking  losses.  Compare  the  juiciness,  flavor, 
tenderness,  and  slicability  of  the  meat. 

The  following  suggestions  are  offered  for  tests : 

1.  Pounded  vs.  not  pounded. 

2.  Floured  vs.  not  floured  (neither  piece  pounded). 

3.  Floured  vs.  not  floured   (both  pieces  pounded). 

4.  Seared  vs.  not  seared   (neither  pounded  nor  floured). 

5.  Seared  vs.  not  seared  (both  pounded  and  floured). 

6.  Covered  vs.  uncovered. 

7.  Lower  (simmer)  vs.  higher  temperature  (boiling  over  flame). 

8.  Lower  vs.  higher  temperature   (in  oven). 

9.  Add  tomato  juice  as  liquid  to  one  piece,  an  equal  quantity  of  water  to 
the  other. 

10.  Repeat  (9)  but  substitute  sour  cream  for  the  tomato  juice. 

11.  Remove  one  piece  when  the  interior  temperature  reaches  75°C.,  the 
other  when  the  inner  temperature  reaches  85°C. 

12.  Remove  one  piece  when  the  interior  temperature  reaches  85°C.,  the 
other  at  95°C. 

Many  combinations  of  the  above  suggestions  and  other  combinations  not 
mentioned  may  be  tried. 

Cooking  Meat  in  Water 

Experiment  46. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  temperature  of  the  water  upon  the  palatabillty  of 
the  meat 


GROUND  MEAT  261 

Stews.  Use  neck,  heel  of  round,  or  any  of  the  less  tender  cuts.  The  meat 
is  cut  into  cubes  of  the  size  desired,  using  equal  quantities  from  each  side  of 
the  carcass.  Cook  in  covered  utensils.  The  amount  of  water  added  is  usually 
just  sufficient  to  cover  the  meat.  This  will  have  to  be  determined  in  connec- 
tion with  the  utensils  used  for  the  stew.  At  the  start  try  using  y2  cup  of 
liquid  to  each  pound  of  meat.  For  boiling  temperatures  this  should  be  doubled. 
Use  2  grams  of  salt  per  pound  of  meat.  For  stews  the  meat  is  usually  pre- 
pared in  one  of  three  ways,  (a)  Brown  stew.  The  meat  is  seasoned  and 
seared  in  fat  before  it  is  added  to  the  boiling  liquid.  The  meat  may  be  floured 
before  it  is  seared.  The  flour  browns  more  readily  and  adds  color  to  the 
liquid,  (b)  The  meat  is  added  directly  without  searing  to  the  boiling  liquid, 
(c)  The  meat,  without  being  seared,  is  added  to  the  cold  liquid  and  heated 
slowly  to  the  desired  temperature.  If  vegetables  are  used  with  the  stew,  they 
are  added  so  that  they  will  just  become  tender  before  the  stew  is  served.  The 
broth  of  the  stew  may  be  thickened  slightly. 

1.  Brown  stew.  Dredge  the  meat  with  flour.  Add  salt.  Sear  in  hot  fat. 
Add  the  seared  meat  to  the  boiling  water.  Cook  one  stew  at  simmering 
(85°-90°C.,  185°-194°F.)  temperature,  the  other  at  boiling.  Add  boiling  water 
to  either  as  needed,  but  the  amount  of  water  when  served  should  not  cover 
the  meat  or  meat  and  vegetables  when  served. 

2.  Repeat  (1)  but  add  the  unseared  meat  to  the  boiling  water. 

3.  Repeat  (1)  but  add  the  unseared  meat  to  cold  water.  Heat  slowly  to  sim- 
mering and  boiling  temperatures. 

Compare  the  meat  from  the  various  stews  for  flavor,  juiciness,  slicability 
(if  pieces  are  large  enough  to  slice),  stringiness,  tenderness,  and  time  of 
cooking. 

Broth 

Experiment  47. 

To  determine  the  best  method  of  making  broth. 

Use  yz  pound  of  meat  for  each  experiment  and  1  pint  of  water.  Add  water 
as  necessary  to  keep  the  volume  constant. 

1.  Cook  the  meat  in  one  piece.  Start  in  cold  water  and  heat  to  85°C.  Cook 
until  tender,  keeping  the  temperature  85°C. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  cut  the  meat  in  1-inch  cubes. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  grind  the  meat. 

4.  Repeat  2,  but  start  in  boiling  water  and  cook  at  boiling  temperature. 

5.  Repeat  2,  but  sear  the  meat  before  adding  to  the  water.  What  are  the 
differences  in  the  broth  in  each  case?  How  is  a  clear  broth  prepared?  Strain 
some  of  the  above  broths.  To  another  add  a  beaten  egg  white,  heat,  then  strain. 

Ground  Meat 

Experiment  48. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  various  factors  upon  the  palatability  of  ground 
meat. 


262 


MEAT 


Meat  loaf. 
Recipe: 

Ground  lean  beef 

Butter 

Egg,  beaten 

Milk 

Salt 


X  pound 

y2  tablespoon 

X  cup 

}i  teaspoon 


113  grams 

7  grams 

12  grams 

61  grams 

1  gram 


Ground  suet 
Bread  crumbs 
Pepper 


14  grams 
25  grams 
}4>  teaspoon 


Mix  the  ingredients  lightly  with  a  fork.  The  meat  loaf  may  be  baked  in 
individual  casseroles  or  even  in  pyrex  custard  cups  the  same  weight  being  put 
in  each  dish.  Bake  in  the  oven,  putting  a  right-angle  thermometer  into  each 
sample,  the  thermometer  being  suspended  by  the  horizontal  arm  on  a  rack 
above  the  meat  loaf.  Ground  meat  from  the  retail  market  may  be  used  for  A 
and  B  and  the  suet  omitted. 

A.  The  temperature  to  which  the  meat  loaf  is  cooked. 

1.  Bake  in  an  oven  at  160°C,  (about  325°F.)  until  the  interior  temperature 
reaches  75°C. 

2.  Repeat  (1)  but  remove  from  the  oven  at  80°C. 

3.  Repeat  (1)  but  remove  from  the  oven  at  85°C. 

4.  Repeat  (1)  but  remove  from  the  oven  at  90°C. 

B.  The  temperature  of  the  oven. 

Bake  to  the  interior  temperature  found  best  under  A. 

1.  Bake  at  150°C.   (about  300°F.). 

2.  Bake  at  160°C.  (about  325°F.). 

3.  Bake  at  175°C.  (about  350°F.). 

4.  Bake  at  185°C.   (about  365°F.). 


C.  Effect  of  fineness  of  grinding  of  the  meat. 

Bake  to  interior  and  at  oven  temperatures  found  best  under  A  and  B. 

1.  Grind  meat  once,  using  a  coarse  knife  in  the  grinder. 

2.  Grind  meat  once  with  a  medium  knife. 

3.  Grind  meat  once  with  a  fine  knife. 

4.  Repeat  (2),  putting  meat  through  the  grinder  4  times. 

5.  Repeat  (3),  putting  meat  through  the  grinder  4  times. 

D.  The  effect  of  increasing  the  fat. 

Bake   to   interior    and    at   oven    temperatures    found    best    under   A    and    B. 
Grind  to  the  degree  of  fineness  found  best  under  C. 

1.  Add  7  grams  of  ground  suet.   (If  desired  butter  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  suet.) 

2.  Add  14  grams  of  ground  suet. 

3.  Add  21  grams  of  ground  suet. 

4.  Add  28  grams  of  ground  suet. 

Compare  the  flavor,  moistness,  and  texture  of  the  various  meat  loaves. 


HAM  263 

Hamburger. 

Recipe :  ^^^^ 

Ground  beef  ^  pound  113  grams 

Egg  y^  12  grams 

Salt  X  teaspoon  1  gram 

Pepper  %  teaspoon 

Mix  the  ingredients  together  with  a  fork.  For  uniformity  of  temperature 
the  hamburger  may  be  baked  in  custard  cups  according  to  directions  given  under 
meat  loaf.  It  may  also  be  made  into  patties  and  seared,  then  cooked  slowly  as 
is  the  usual  practice. 

1.  Repeat  section  A  under  meat  loaf. 

2.  Repeat  section  C  under  meat  loaf. 

Cured  Meats 
Ham 

Experiment  49. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  various  factors  affecting  the  palatability  of  ham. 

Hams  may  be  secured  with  a  light  or  a  heavy  salt  cure.  The  former  do  not 
need  to  be  soaked  before  cooking;  the  latter  may  be  improved  by  soaking. 

Preparation.  For  hams  with  a  light  salt  cure,  scrub  with  a  brush.  Dry,  then 
weigh.  Insert  thermometer  so  that  the  center  of  the  bulb  is  at  the  center  of 
the  thickest  portion  of  the  ham,  with  rind  or  fat  side  up.  To  determine  the 
depth  for  inserting  the  thermometer  use  two  rulers  at  right  angles  to  each 
other.  Or  with  a  steel  skewer  pierce  the  rind  or  fat  side,  running  the  skewer 
point  just  through  the  ham.  Withdraw  and  measure  the  depth  the  skewer  was 
in  the  ham.  The  thermometer  is  to  be  inserted  half  this  distance.  If  the  rind 
has  not  been  removed,  it  will  need  to  be  cut  away  with  scissors  or  a  knife  so 
that  the  thermometer  can  be  inserted.  Use  hams  of  about  the  same  weight  for 
all  the  tests. 

For  hams  with  a  heavy  salt  cure,  soak,  keeping  the  time  of  soaking  and  the 
amount  of  water  used  standardized.  Soak  over  night  using  a  quart  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  ham.  Remove  from  the  soaking  water  and  drain  10  minutes. 
Weigh  and  proceed  as  for  non-soaked  hams. 

Record  the  temperature  of  ham  and  oven  every  10  minutes  for  the  first 
30  minutes,  then  every  20  or  30  minutes.  For  hams  from  which  the  rind  has 
not  been  removed,  remove  the  rind  after  the  ham  comes  from  the  oven.  If  to  be 
scored  hot,  cut  as  soon  as  the  maximum  temperature  is  reached.  If  to  be 
scored  cold,  store  after  removing  rind. 

A.  Baked  ham. 

Place  the  ham  skin  side  up  on  a  rack  in  an  open  weighed  pan.  Add  no  water 
or  seasoning. 

1.  Bake  in  an  oven  at  125°C.  (about  255°F.)  until  an  interior  temperature 
of  70°C.  is  reached. 

2.  Repeat  (1)  but  cook  to  an  interior  temperature  of  75°C. 

3.  Repeat   (2)   but  cook  to  an  interior  temperature  of  80°C. 


264  MEAT 

4.  Repeat  (1)  but  have  the  oven  temperature  150°C.   (about  300°F.). 

B.  Boiled  ham. 

Use  kettles  with  covers,  ham  boilers,  or  boilers  of  such  size  that  the  w^ater 
will  cover  the  ham.  The  ham  is  placed  on  a  rack,  rind  or  fat  side  up.  Use 
an  ordinary  laboratory  thermometer  to  take  the  temperature  of  the  water. 
Add  1  quart  of  water  per  pound  of  ham.  Occasionally  add  water  at  the  same 
temperature  as  water  in  w^hich  ham  is  cooked  to  replace  that  lost  by  evapora- 
tion. 

1.  Let  simmer  in  water  at  83°C.  until  an  inner  temperature  of  75°C.  is 
reached.  Or,  if  preferred,  use  the  interior  temperature  preferred  with  baked 
ham.  Remove  from  the  water.  Drain.  Weigh.  Keep  over  night  in  the  re- 
frigerator. 

2.  Repeat  ( 1 )  but  let  the  ham  cool  over  night  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
cooked.  Let  the  kettle  remain  in  the  room  so  that  the  liquid  will  cool  to  room 
temperature.  Remove  from  the  liquid.  Drain  10  minutes  and  weigh.  Place  in 
the  refrigerator  to  be  scored  with  hams  from    (1)    and    (3). 

3.  Repeat  (1)  but  put  the  kettle  or  boiler  in  the  refrigerator  over  night, 
letting  the  ham  cool  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Remove  from  liquid. 
Drain    10  minutes,   and   then  weigh. 

4.  Repeat  (1)  but  keep  the  temperature  of  the  water  at  87°C. 

5.  Repeat  (1)  but  keep  the  water  at  78°C. 

Bacon 

Experiment  50. 

To  determine  the  effect  on  the  flavor  and  the  losses  of  bacon  by  cooking 
at  different  temperatures  and  to  different  stages  of  doneness. 

Weigh  the  bacon  before  and  after  cooking  to  determine  the  percentage 
lost  during  cooking.  The  difference  in  weight  of  the  uncooked  and  cooked 
bacon  is  the  total  cooking  loss.  The  weight  of  the  fat  in  the  cooking  utensil 
is  the  approximate  fat  loss. 

Have  the  bacon  sliced  or  cut  on  a  slicing  machine  3/32  inch  thick.  Make  a 
tracing  of  slices  if  desired. 

1.  Place  the  slices  of  bacon  on  a  rack  Yz  inch  above  the  bottom  of  an  open 
pan.  Cook  in  an  oven  at  160°C.  (about  320°F.)  for  18  minutes.  Do  not  turn. 

2.  Place  the  weighed  slices  of  bacon  so  that  they  lie  flat  and  full  length 
in  a  cold,  heavy  iron  or  aluminum  skillet.  (With  a  9-inch  skillet  3  slices  of 
bacon  will  usually  lie  flat  and  full  length.)  Place  over  a  slow  fire  and  cook 
slowly  until  a  uniform  brown  in  color.  It  should  be  medium  well  done  or  crisp 
but  not  brittle.  Turn  the  bacon  frequently  and  in  such  a  manner  that  it  is 
cooked  uniformly.  Often  the  center,  if  the  skillet  is  hot,  of  the  slice  of  bacon 
is  done   while   the   ends   are   not. 

3.  Place  the  weighed  slices  of  bacon  so  that  they  will  lie  flat  and  full  length 
in  a  hot,  heavy  iron  or  aluminum  skillet.  Cook  rapidly  at  a  high  temperature 
until  a  uniform  brown  in  color.  Turn  the  bacon  frequently  and  in  such  a  man- 
ner that  it  is  cooked  uniformly. 

4.  Repeat  2,  but  cook  the  bacon  until  it  is  very  crisp  and  well  done  or  brittle. 
Compare  the  cooking  losses  and  flavor  with   1   and  2. 

Which   method   of   cooking  gives   the   best-flavored    bacon?   Which   method 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  ADDITIONAL  EXPERIMENTS   265 


causes  the  fat  to  smoke  or  burn?  Does  the  bacon  taste  of  burned  fat?  Which 
method  causes  the  bacon  to  curl  the  most?  Which  method  gives  the  most 
evenly  cooked  product?  Compare  the  flavor,  the  cooking  losses,  and  the  cost 
of  the  cooked  bacon,  cooked  only  until  crisp  and  that  cooked  until  brittle. 


Weight  of 

uncooked 

bacon, 

grams 


Weight  of 
cooked 
bacon, 
grams 


Total 
cooking 

loss, 
per  cent 


Fat  loss, 
per  cent 


Straight 
or  curled 


Color 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Experiment  51. 

To  compare  the  flavor  and  cooking  losses  of  different  brands  of  bacon. 

Cook  different  grades  and  brands  of  bacon  in  the  oven  at  160°C.,  see  Ex- 
periment 50,1.  The  different  bacons  may  be  scored  before  and  after  cooking 
for  the  color  and  uniformity  of  color  of  lean  and  fat,  for  the  percentage  of 
fat  and  lean,  the  distribution  of  the  lean  and  the  fat,  and  for  texture.  The 
cooked  bacon  may  be  scored  for  color,  the  clearness  of  the  fat,  the  percentage 
and  distribution  of  fat  and  lean,  the  crispness,  and  the  flavor. 


Brand  of  or 

grade  of 

bacon 


Uncooked 
weight, 
grams 


Cooked 
weight, 
grams 


Total 
cooking 

loss, 
per  cent 


Fat 

loss, 

per  cent 


Straight 
or  curled 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Suggestions  for  Additional  Experiments  with  Meats 

1.  Determine  the  effect  on  total  cooking  loss  of  cooking  roasts  in  a  covered 
and  uncovered  pan. 

2.  Determine  the  effect  of  salting  on  cooking  losses  of  chops,  steaks,   and 
roasts. 


CHAPTER  VIII 
EMULSIONS 

Some  substances  like  alcohol  and  water  are  miscible  in  all  proportions, 
i.e.,  they  mix  intimately  however  small  or  large  the  proportions  used, 
whereas  other  substances  like  oil  and  water  are  not  miscible. 

When  a  liquid  is  dispersed  in  a  second  liquid  with  which  it  is  non- 
miscible  the  product  is  called  an  emulsion.  The  boundary  surface  between 
these  two  non-miscible  liquids  is  referred  to  as  the  liquid/liquid  interface, 
or  the  dineric  interface.  Most  emulsions  are  colloidal  systems  in  which  the 
dimension  of  the  dispersed  phase  is  greater  than  0.5/x,  the  upper  lim.it  of 
the  colloidal  realm.  However,  the  stabilizing  film  in  the  concentrated 
emulsions  may  have  colloidal  dimensions. 

In  cookery,  the  liquid  of  the  emulsion  may  be  water,  milk,  a  weak  acetic 
acid  solution,  or  some  similar  liquid.  The  fat  or  oil  may  be  any  fat  or 
oil  used  as  a  food.  Mineral  oils  may  also  be  used  for  emulsions.  If  emul- 
sions are  mentioned  in  connection  w^ith  food  preparation,  mayonnaise  is 
usually  the  one  suggested  first.  However,  all  thickened  gravies,  sauces,  and 
cream  soups  are  emulsions.  Fillings  for  pies  like  chocolate  cream,  and 
French  and  cooked  salad  dressings,  may  be  added  to  the  list.  In  many 
of  the  batter  products  the  fat  or  oil  may  be  partially  or  wholly  emulsified. 

Forming  emulsions.  To  form  emulsions,  work  must  be  done.  The 
function  of  the  work  is  not  only  to  separate  the  dispersed  phase  into  smaller 
particles,  but  to  increase  the  surface  area,  which  gives  a  better  opportunity 
for  the  two  phases  to  come  in  contact  with  each  other  and  increases  the 
area  for  adsorption  of  the  emulsifying  agent.  Stirring,  beating,  shaking, 
grinding,  or  some  other  method  may  be  used  to  disperse  one  of  the  sub- 
stances. 

Dispersed  and  continuous  phases.  The  substance  broken  into  small 
portions  is  called  the  inside,  the  discontinuous,  or  the  dispersed  phase;  the 
one  surrounding  the  dispersed  phase  is  designated  as  the  outside,  the  con- 
tinuous phase,  or  the  dispersing  medium.  If  oil  and  vinegar  are  shaken 
together,  French  dressing  is  made,  but  after  standing  a  few  minutes  the 
oil  and  vinegar  separate.  This  type  of  emulsion  that  lasts  for  a  few  minutes 
only  is  sometimes  called  a  temporary  emulsion. 

Emulsifiers.  A  permanent  emulsion  of  pure  water  and  pure  oil  can 
be  formed  only  when  the  proportion  of  oil  is  very  small,  less  than  2  per 
cent,  and  usually  not  more  than  1  part  of  oil  in  10,000  parts  of  water.  For 
a  permanent  emulsion  with  a  high  percentage  of  fat  or  oil,  a  third  sub- 
stance  must   be   present   to   prevent   the   drops   of   oil   or   of   water   from 

266 


THE  PHASE-VOLUME  THEORY  267 

coalescing  or  running  together.  This  third  substance  is  known  as  an  emul- 
sifying agent,  an  emulsifier,  or  a  stabilizer.  Its  function  is  to  form  a  film 
around  the  oil  or  water  drops  and  thus  keep  them  dispersed,  giving  per- 
manence to  the  system. 

Classes  of  Emulsions 

Clayton  states  that  two  very  distinct  classes  of  emulsions  exist.  ( 1 )  The 
very  dilute  emulsions.  These  emulsions  are  simple  emulsions,  containing 
only  oil  and  water.  In  this  class  only  the  oil  in  water  emulsions  are  known. 
(2)  The  concentrated  emulsions.  The  more  concentrated  emulsions  may  be 
either  of  two  types  according  to  whether  the  oil  or  the  water  is  the  dis- 
persed phase.  In  the  ( 1 )  oil-in-water  type  of  emulsion  the  drops  of  oil  are 
the  dispersed  or  divided  phase.  In  the  (2)  water-in-oil  type  of  emulsion 
the  water  is  the  dispersed  phase.  The  factors  determining  the  type  of  emul- 
sion formed  will  be  considered  later. 

The  Theory  of  Emulsification 

Bancroft  states  that  the  necessary  conditions  for  forming  a  stable  emul- 
sion are  that  the  drops  of  the  dispersed  phase  shall  be  so  small  that  they 
will  stay  suspended  and  that  there  shall  be  a  sufficiently  viscous  film 
around  each  drop  to  keep  the  drops  of  the  dispersed  phase  from  coalescing. 

Many  theories  have  been  advanced  to  account  for  the  way  or  means  by 
which  the  emulsion  is  stabilized  by  the  emulsifier.  At  the  present  time 
no  theory  has  been  postulated  that  seems  to  apply  universally  to  all  emul- 
sions. As  Fischer  suggests,  probably  a  number  of  factors  play  a  role,  and 
the  relative  importance  of  each  varies  not  only  in  different  emulsions  but 
in  one  and  the  same  emulsion  under  different  circumstances.  Clayton  in 
his  latest  book  on  emulsions  gives  a  summary  of  the  various  theories  for 
emulsions.  Only  a  few  will  be  mentioned  here. 

The  electrical  double  layer.  The  oil  globules  in  a  pure  oil  and  pure 
water  emulsion  carry  a  negative  charge.  The  water  ionizes  so  that  both 
hydrogen  and  hydroxyl  ions  are  present.  The  negative  charge  on  the  oil 
may  come  from  adsorption  of  the  OH  ions.  These  adsorbed  hydroxyl  ions 
form  a  layer  around  the  oil  globules.  A  second  layer  of  oppositely  charged 
ions  forms  a  layer  in  the  liquid  outside  the  layer  of  negative  ions.  These 
two  layers  of  oppositely  charged  ions  are  known  as  the  Helmholtz  double 
layer.  They  are  not  confined  to  emulsions  but  accompany  all  boundary 
phenomena.  The  electric  charge  is  a  factor  in  all  emulsions,  even  those 
stabilized  with  emulsifying  agents. 

The  phase-volume  theory.  If  spheres  of  the  same  diameter  are  packed 
as  closely  as  possible,  one  sphere  will  touch  12  others  and  the  volume  the 
spheres  occupy  is  about  74  per  cent  of  the  total  volume.  Thus  if  the  spheres 
or  drops  of  the  dispersed  phase  remain  rigid  it  is  possible  to  disperse  74 


268  EMULSIONS 

parts  of  the  dispersed  phase  in  the  continuous  phase ;  but  if  the  dispersed 
phase  is  increased  to  more  than  74  parts  of  the  total  volume,  a  reversal 
of  the  emulsion  will  occur.  However,  the  dispersed  phase  does  not  remain 
rigid  in  shape  but  the  drops  flatten  out  where  they  come  in  contact  with 
each  other,  nor  are  all  the  dispersed  particles  the  same  size  (see  Figs.  27 
to  30),  so  that  it  is  possible  for  the  dispersed  phase  to  consist  of  from  1  to 
99  per  cent  of  the  emulsion. 

Hydration  theory  o£  emulsions.  Fischer  and  Hooker  state  that 
hydrated  colloids  make  the  best  emulsifiers.  Fischer  states  the  emulsifying 
agent,  by  w^hich  a  permanent  emulsion  is  obtained,  invariably  "proves  to  be 
a  hydrophilic  colloid  when  water  and  oil  emulsions  are  concerned  (a 
Ij^ophilic  colloid  of  some  sort  when  other  than  aqueous  mixtures  are  under 
consideration).  Put  another  way,  oil  cannot  permanently  be  beaten  into 
water,  but  only  into  a  colloid  hydrate." 

Fischer  and  Hooker  have  found  albumin,  casein,  and  gelatin  to  be  good 
emulsifying  agents.  Casein  when  not  hydrated,  i.e.,  at  its  isoelectric  point, 
is  a  poor  emulsifying  agent,  but  hydrated  casein,  i.e.,  acid  or  alkali  casein 
is  a  good  emulsifying  agent. 

Fischer  states  that  all  permanent  emulsions  can  be  explained  on  the  basis 
of  hydrated  or  lyated  colloids.  He  says  that  when  water  changes  to  a 
colloid  hydrate,  its  physical  constants  change ;  and  these  include,  among 
others,  surface  tension,  viscosity,  and  adsorption.  The  treatment  of  the 
colloid,  such  as  freezing  or  heating,  or  the  addition  of  substances  which 
alter  the  water-holding  capacity  of  the  colloid  may  crack  the  emulsion  or 
lessen  its  emulsifying  ability. 

Interfacial  films.  Clayton  in  discussing  "Foods  as  Colloid  Systems" 
describes  interfacial  films  as  follows:  "As  early  as  1840,  Ascherson  ob- 
served 'that  coagulation  in  form  of  a  membrane  occurs  inevitably  and 
instantaneously  when  albumin  comes  into  contact  with  a  liquid  fat.' — Any 
solute  which  lowers  the  interfacial  tension  between  oil  and  w^ater  will 
necessarily  accumulate  at  that  interface,  and  in  the  case  of  certain  proteins, 
notably  albumen,  the  act  of  adsorption  leads  to  a  change  in  the  physical 
character  of  the  emulsifying  agent,  this  being  'precipitated'  as  a  fibrous  or 
membrane-fibrous  solid,  no  longer  soluble  in  its  original  solvent.  The  ex- 
istence of  such  interfacial  membranes  was  verified  by  Ramsden  and  other 
investigators." 

In  reading  the  various  theories  of  emulsion  one  is  impressed  with  the 
similarity  of  many  factors. 

Oriented  wedge  theory.  This  theory  for  the  manner  in  which  emul- 
sions are  stabilized  has  been  developed  from  the  work  of  Langmuir  and  of 
Harkins.  It  is  based  upon  the  concept  that  the  molecules  of  the  emulsifier 
orient  themselves  in  the  interface  between  the  dispersed  and  continuous 
phases,  forming  a  wedge,  the  curvature  of  which  determines  the  size  of  the 
dispersed  phase.  Fuller  accounts  may  be  found  in  Clayton's  book  and  in 
the  articles  of  the  authorities  mentioned  above. 


THE  TYPE  OF  EMULSION  FORMED  269 

Adsorbed  film  and  interfacial  tension  theory.  This  theory  has  been 
developed  or  rather  extended  from  earlier  theories.  At  the  present  time  it 
is  probably  the  most  universally  accepted  theory  for  the  formation  of  emul- 
sions. Bancroft  stated  the  underlying  principles,  basing  them  upon  Don- 
nan's  early  work  of  interfacial  tension ;  but  many  others  have  extended  the 
interpretations.  Clayton  states  that  with  this  theory  "emphasis  is  laid  upon 
the  fact  that  emulsification  is  influenced  by  ( 1 )  the  mass  of  the  emulsi- 
fying agent  present,  (2)  the  ease  with  which  this  agent  is  adsorbed  at  the 
interfacial  separating  surface,  and  (3)  the  nature  of  the  ions  adsorbed  by 
the  resultant  film." 

The  emulsifier  may  be  adsorbed  by  the  water  or  by  the  oil,  but  it  is 
usually  adsorbed  more  in  one  liquid  than  in  the  other  and  thus  lowers  the 
interfacial  tension  of  one  liquid  to  a  greater  extent  than  that  of  the  other. 
If  the  tension  of  the  water  is  lowered  more  than  that  of  the  oil,  the  water 
has  less  tendency  to  form  drops,  flows  to  form  a  film  more  readily,  and 
becomes  the  continuous  phase.  Thus  the  type  of  emulsion  formed  depends 
upon  the  nature  of  the  emulsifying  agent.  The  above  is  often  worded  some- 
what as  follows:  if  the  emulsifying  agent  is  more  soluble  in  water  than  in 
the  oil  the  water  becomes  the  continuous  phase,  or  if  the  emulsifying  agent 
is  wetted  more  by  the  water  than  by  the  oil,  the  water  becomes  the  con- 
tinuous phase.  When  the  tension  on  each  side  of  the  film  or  the  emulsifying 
agent  is  the  same  no  emulsion  is  formed.  This  may  occur  when  opposing 
emulsifying  agents  are  in  the  mixture  and  the  effect  of  each  counterbalances 
that  of  the  other. 

To  form  an  emulsion  the  emulsifier  must  be  adsorbed  at  the  interfacial 
surface  and  form  a  sufficiently  coherent  film  to  stabilize  the  emulsion. 
The  reversal  of  the  emulsion  depends  upon  the  nature  of  the  ions  adsorbed 
by  this  film.  Bhatnagar  stresses  more  than  previous  workers  the  necessity 
for  wetting  of  the  adsorbed  film. 

The  making  of  permanent  emulsions  is  important  for  foods,  cosmetics, 
pharmaceutical  preparations,  sprays,  and  other  products.  But  breaking  of 
emulsions  is  important  in  crude  oil  operations  for  recovery  of  the  oil.  Hence 
emulsions  have  been  investigated  from  many  angles  and  it  is  not  surprising 
that  no  one  theory  applies  to  all  types  of  emulsions. 

The  Type  of  Emulsion  Formed 

The  type  of  emulsion  formed,  i.e.:  (1)  oil-in-water  or  (2)  water-in-oil, 
depends  upon  the  nature  of  the  emulsifying  agent,  the  nature  of  the  oil, 
and  the  effect  of  electrolytes.  With  one  emulsifier  an  oil-in-water  emulsion 
may  be  formed  with  a  specific  oil.  Sometimes  by  the  addition  of  the  right 
substance,  usually  an  electrolyte,  the  emulsion  can  be  reversed  and  changed 
to  a  water-in-oil  emulsion.  Other  emulsifiers  with  the  same  oil  will  form 
water-in-oil  emulsions. 

Bancroft  states  that  a  hydrophilic  colloid  tends  to  make  water  the  dis- 


270  EMULSIONS 

persing  phase,  and  a  hydrophobic  colloid  tends  to  make  water  the  dis- 
persed phase. 

The  potassium  and  sodium  soaps  are  more  soluble  in  water  than  in  the 
oil  and  form  oil-in-water  emulsions.  Magnesium  and  calcium  soaps  are 
more  soluble  in  oil  than  in  water  and  tend  to  form  water-in-oil  emulsions. 
Aluminum  and  iron  soaps  are  more  soluble  in  oil  than  the  magnesium  and 
calcium  ones  and  form  water-in-oil  emulsions. 

Bhatnagar  emphasizes  the  influence  of  the  electric  charge  of  the  emulsi- 
fying agent  upon  the  type  of  emulsion  formed.  He  makes  the  following 
generalization.  **A11  emulsifying  agents  having  an  excess  of  negative  ions 
on  them  and  wetted  by  water  will  yield  oil-in-water  emulsions,  while 
those  having  an  excess  of  adsorbed  positive  ions  and  wetted  by  oil  will 
give  w\iter-in-oil  emulsions." 

Seifriz,  in  his  work  with  petroleum  oil  emulsions  stabilized  with  casein 
solution,  found  that  the  oils  with  a  specific  gravity  of  0.828  or  below 
form  oll-In-water  emulsions.  When  the  specific  gravity  of  the  oil  is  greater 
than  0.857  a  water-in-oil  emulsion  is  formed,  and  oils  with  specific  gravity 
between  0.828  and  0.857  give  coarse,  unstable  emulsions  or  cannot  be  emul- 
sified at  all. 

Reversal  of  type  of  emulsion.  No  definite  rule  can  be  given  concern- 
ing the  reversal  of  emulsions.  The  addition  of  an  electrolyte  In  definite 
concentrations  may  stabilize  some  emulsions  and  bring  about  reversal  of 
others.  Reversal  of  some  emulsions  may  occur  upon  the  addition  of  a 
definite  quantity  of  a  hydroxide.  Sometimes  the  addition  of  more  of  the 
hydroxide  will  again  bring  about  a  reversal  of  the  emulsion  into  the  origi- 
nal type.  Shaking  after  standing  may  cause  reversal  of  some  emulsions. 

Some  ions  are  antagonistic  to  each  other.  Thus  Clowes  has  shown  that, 
if  a  rancid  oil  is  dropped  from  a  pipette  which  has  the  end  immersed 
under  w^ater,  drops  of  a  certain  size  are  formed.  But  if  the  oil  Is  dropped 
into  a  sodium  chloride  solution,  the  drops  are  very  much  smaller.  This  Is 
probably  due  to  the  formation  of  sodium  soaps  with  the  rancid  oil  and  the 
lowering  of  the  interfaclal  tension.  If  the  oil  is  dropped  Into  a  calcium 
chloride  solution  the  interfaclal  tension  is  increased  and  very  large  oil 
drops  are  formed,  owing  in  this  case  to  the  formation  of  calcium  soaps. 
If  both  sodium  and  calcium  are  in  the  solution  they  antagonize  each  other 
and  the  result  obtained  will  depend  on  the  concentration  of  each  present. 
Sodium  and  potassium  are  antagonistic  to  calcium  and  magnesium. 

Means  of  determining  the  type  of  emulsion.  Several  ways  have 
been  proposed  to  determine  which  of  the  two  liquids  Is  the  continuous 
phase. 

The  drop-dilution  method  may  be  used  to  determine  the  type  of  emul- 
sion by  the  microscope.  To  a  small  portion  of  the  emulsion  placed  on  a 
slide  add  a  drop  of  water  with  a  pin  point  and  stir  slightly.  If  the  water 
blends  with  the  emulsion,  it  Is  an  oil-in-water  emulsion,  but  if  oil  blends 
with  the  outside  phase  it  Is  a  water-in-oil  emulsion. 


SOME  FOOD  EMULSIFIERS  271 

Another  method  of  determining  the  type  of  emulsion  is  to  use  Sudan 
III  or  Scharlach  R,  red  dyes  soluble  in  the  oil  but  not  in  the  water.  A 
small  portion  of  the  finely  powdered  dye  is  dusted  over  the  surface  of  the 
emulsion.  If  oil  is  the  external  phase  the  color  gradually  spreads  through- 
out the  emulsion.  But  if  water  is  the  external  phase  the  color  does  not 
spread  but  is  confined  to  the  oil  with  which  it  comes  in  contact  on  the 
surface. 

The  microscope  may  be  used  to  determine  the  type  of  emulsion  formed. 
If  the  oil  is  dyed  red,  a  red  field  with  clear  globules  indicates  a  water-in- 
oil  emulsion;  red  globules  in  a  clear  field  show  an  oil-in-water  emulsion. 
Sometimes  a  multiple  emulsion  is  obtained,  i.e.,  a  dispersed  phase  within  a 
dispersed  phase.  The  only  means  of  identifying  a  multiple  emulsion  is  by 
the  microscope. 

Some  food  emulsifiers.  Seifriz  has  reported  that  "olive  oil  stabilized 
with  sodium  oleate,  sodium  stearate,  gelatose,  gum  arabic,  albumin,  lecithin, 
saponin,  senegin,  smilacin,  or  plant  juices  (cell  sap  and  protoplasm)  forms 
oil-in-water  emulsions,  while  the  same  oil  stabilized  with  casein,  gliadin, 
cholesterin,  or  cephalin  forms  water-in-oil  emulsions."  Seifriz  has  also 
reported  that  with  casein  as  the  emulsifier  the  following  oils  all  gave  water- 
in-oil  emulsions:  olive,  castor  bean,  poppy  seed,  sperm,  and  cod-liver  oil. 
Linseed  oil  forms  with  casein  a  dual  emulsion  with  the  water-in-oil  type 
predominating.  Lecithin  favors  the  formation  of  oil-in-water  emulsions, 
whereas  cholesterol  favors  water-in-oil  emulsions.  Saturated  casein  solu- 
tions with  common  food  fats  tend  to  form  water-in-oil  emulsions. 

In  food  preparation,  various  fats  and  oils  are  used  in  the  formation  of 
emulsions.  Oils  commonly  employed  are  cottonseed,  corn,  olive,  and  pea- 
nut. The  fats  include  butter,  lard,  Crisco,  Snowdrift,  and  others.  In  a 
cake  batter  there  are  several  emulsifiers:  the  casein  of  milk,  egg  yolk,  egg 
white,  and  the  glutenin,  gliadin,  and  starch  of  the  flour.  When  equal  quan- 
tities of  fat  or  oil  and  emulsifying  agents  were  used,  the  types  of  emulsions 
formed  varied,  depending  on  the  emulsifier  used  and  whether  the  oil  was 
added  to  the  emulsifier,  or  vice  versa. 

With  egg  yolk  all  the  oils  and  fats  gave  a  very  stable  emulsion  of  the 
oil-in-water  type.  With  egg  white  as  the  emulsifier,  oil  forms  an  oil-in- 
water  emulsion.  Fig.  26  shows  an  emulsion  of  corn  oil  and  egg  white. 
When  the  oil  is  added  gradually  to  the  egg  white,  a  foam  as  well  as  an 
emulsion  is  formed.  The  large  white  spheres  are  air  bubbles.  The  oil  is 
colored  red  and  in  the  photomicrograph  shows  black.  The  illustration  also 
shows  that  the  oil  is  adsorbed  in  the  film  or  layer  at  the  interface  between 
a  liquid  and  a  gas. 

When  a  given  weight  of  butter  is  added  gradually  to  an  equal  weight 
of  egg  white,  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  is  formed.  With  the  last  additions 
of  the  butter  the  emulsion  may  break.  If  beating  is  continued,  a  water- 
in-oil  emulsion  may  form.  In  melting  butter  the  curdy  part  containing 
the  casein  settles  to  the  bottom  of  the  container  and  consequently  is  usually 


272 


EMULSIONS 


the  last  portion  to  be  added  to  the  egg  white.  It  may  have  some  effect 
upon  the  reversal  of  the  emulsion.  Sometimes  onl3^  an  oil-in-water  emul- 
sion forms.  Whether  this  is  due  to  the  salt  or  casein  content  of  the  butter 
or  to  the  temperature  maintained  is  not  known.  The  emulsion  obtained 
when  egg  white  is  added  to  the  melted  butter  may  be  a  water-in-oil  or 
an  oil-in-water. 


Fig.  26. — A  coarse  emulsion  of  oil  In  egg  white.  Egg  white  will  not  foam  If  a  fat 
like  butter  or  lard  Is  added  to  It,  but  with  oil  both  an  emulsion  and  a  foam  are 
formed  when  beaten  with  an  egg  beater.  The  large  light  spheres  are  air  bubbles. 
The  oil  Is  stained  red  and  appears  dark  in  the  photomicrograph.  This  photomicro- 
graph is  interesting  for  it  shows  the  adsorption  or  concentration  of  the  oil  at  the 
interface  between  a  gas  and  a  liquid  (egg  white).  This  adsorption  of  fat  can  be 
seen  In  later  Illustrations  of  cake  batter. 

Magnification  approximately  x  135. 

Lard  and  Crisco  form  rather  unstable  emulsions  with  egg  white,  but 
both  types  may  be  formed. 

With  a  saturated  casein  solution  as  the  emulsifier,  the  water-in-oil  type 
of  emulsion  predominates  when  butter,  lard,  Crisco,  and  oil  are  used.  The 
emulsions  are  rather  coarse  and  unstable. 

EfBciency  o£  different  substances  as  emulsifiers.  Some  emulsify- 
ing agents  are  more  efficient  than  others.  No  study  has  been  made  to 
compare  the  efficiency  of  the  various  emulsifiers  under  different  conditions 
and  for  different  emulsions.  As  a  class,  the  hydrophilic  colloids  seem  to  be 
the  most  efficient  emulsifiers.  Clark  and  Mann  have  reported  the  efficiency 
of  sucrose,  dextrin,  starch,  gum  arable,  and  egg  albumin  in  emulsions  of 
benzene  and  kerosene  in  water.  The  oils  composed  75  per  cent  of  the  total 


STABILIZATION  BY  POWDERS  273 

volume  In  each  case.  The  emulsions  were  made  by  shaking  In  a  bottle,  the 
oil  being  added  in  3  parts  and  a  total  of  4800  shakes  used  in  making  the 
emulsion.  They  examined  the  emulsions  after  standing  1,  4,  and  7  weeks 
and  ranked  the  emulsifiers  for  stability  on  a  scale  of  10. 

With  benzene  and  a  1  per  cent  solution  of  each  emulsifier  the  order  was 
as  follows:  egg  albumin,  10;  starch,  6;  gum  arable,  5;  dextrin,  3;  sucrose, 
0.  With  kerosene  the  order  was  as  follows:  egg  albumin,  10;  starch,  9; 
gum  arable,  3 ;  dextrin,  2 ;  sucrose,  2. 

Clark  and  Mann  also  determined  the  efficiency  of  the  above  emulsifying 
agents  in  the  presence  of  electrolytes.  In  some  cases  the  electrolytes  in- 
creased the  viscosity;  in  others  they  lowered  It.  They  concluded  that  "no 
one  general  rule  can  be  made  as  to  the  effect  which  produces  the  best 
emulsions  for  any  one  substance  nor  can  any  one  generalization  be  made 
for  the  effect  which  produces  the  best  emulsion  for  all  substances  under 
all  conditions.  Those  which  seem  to  be  of  primary  importance  are  viscosity 
and  film  formation." 

Brooks  reports  that  egg  yolk  is  four  times  more  efficient  in  mayonnaise 
than  egg  white. 

Types  of  Emulsifying  Agents 

Emulsions  may  be  stabilized  by  different  substances.  They  may  be  classi- 
fied as  follows,  the  basis  being  upon  the  type  of  emulslfier :  ( 1 )  those 
stabilized  by  an  electric  charge,  (2)  those  stabilized  by  colloids,  and  (3) 
those  stabilized  by  powders. 

Stabilization  of  emulsion  by  an  electric  charge.  Mineral  oil  emul- 
sions in  which  the  oil  is  present  In  very  small  amounts  belong  in  the  group 
stabilized  by  an  electric  charge.  The  oil  particles  are  negatively  charged. 
Hydrophilic  sols  are  stabilized  by  hydration  and  an  electric  charge.  Ghosh 
and  Dhar  suggest  that  emulsions  are  similar  to  sols  and  that  the  stability, 
the  separation  or  coagulation,  and  the  reversal  of  the  emulsion  are  markedly 
Influenced  by  its  electric  charge. 

Emulsions  stabilized  by  colloids.  So  many  of  the  emulsifiers  are 
colloidal  in  nature  that  this  group  is  the  most  important  In  food  prepara- 
tion. The  following  are  commonly  used :  eggs,  gelatin,  flour,  starch,  and 
milk.  Gum  arable,  gum  tragacanth,  Irish  moss,  and  other  substances  are 
used  less  frequently.  Pectin  is  being  used  to  some  extent.  Gum  arable  and 
gum  tragacanth  are  used  principally  in  cookery  of  diabetic  foods,  the  Irish 
moss  in  puddings. 

Stabilization  by  powders.  Finely  ground  particles  or  powders  such 
as  lampblack,  mustard,  and  paprika  are  a  third  class  of  substances  used  for 
emulsifying  agents.  The  best  examples  of  this  type  of  emulslfier  in  prepared 
foods  are  the  French  dressings.  At  the  present  time  several  brands  are  on 
the  market  that  are  fairly  stable.  All  are  deep  red  in  color,  so  that  the 


274  EMULSIONS 

emulsion  must  be  partially  and  probably  wholly  stabilized  with  particles  of 
paprika  and  mustard.  This  kind  of  emulsion  is  formed  by  the  powder  film 
around  the  drops  of  oil  which  keeps  them  from  coalescing.  Clayton  reports 
the  results  of  using  finely  divided  solids  as  emulsifiers  by  Bechhold,  Dede, 
and  Reiner.  "They  found  that  the  formation  of  emulsion  depends  upon: 
(1)  the  grain  size  of  the  powder.  The  smaller  the  grain  the  better  the 
emulsion,  until  an  optimum  is  reached,  after  which  smaller  grains  have 
inferior  emulsifying  properties.  (2)  The  quantity  of  powder.  The  more 
powder  there  is  available  the  more  globules  there  can  be  covered,  provid- 
ing the  powder  is  sufficiently  fine."  They  report  that  zinc  dust,  iron 
powder,  clay,  Kieselguhr,  and  yeast  made  very  efficient  emulsifiers. 

The  Making  o£  Emulsions 

To  make  an  emulsion  it  is  necessary  to  break  or  separate  the  dispersed 
phase  into  small  globules.  The  work  for  this  separation  can  be  done  in 
dififerent  ways.  Machines  of  different  types  are  used  for  making  commercial 
emulsions.  They  are  all  designed  to  break  the  liquid  into  globules,  either 
by  a  rotary  motion,  pressure,  or  by  some  other  means.  Agitation  is  used  in 
all  of  these.  Homogenization  is  used  by  most  commercial  firms  for  making 
mayonnaise.  In  making  emulsions  in  the  home,  different  methods  are  fol- 
lowed. For  mayonnaise,  an  egg  beater  is  often  used,  French  dressing  is  often 
shaken,  and  gravy  and  sauces  are  made  by  stirring,  usually  with  a  spoon. 

Optimum  degree  of  agitation  for  each  emulsion.  Clayton  says  it  is 
well  known  that  agitation  can  both  break  and  make  an  emulsion.  The 
amount  of  agitation  required  for  a  given  emulsion  depends  upon  the  par- 
ticular emulsion  being  made  and  the  kind  of  mixing  utensil  used.  Clayton 
states:  "It  is  quite  reasonable  to  believe  that  for  any  given  emulsifying 
apparatus  there  exists  an  optimum  speed  or  degree  of  agitation  or  mixing, 
and  an  optimum  time  of  mixing  or  running,  whereby  the  most  perfect 
emulsion  can  be  obtained  in  a  given  system.  Experiments  prove  this." 

Stamm  has  reported  that  the  method  of  preparation  affects  the  size  of 
the  particles  of  the  dispersed  phase.  Harkins  (1928)  states  that  the  "method 
used  in  preparing  an  emulsion  is  one  of  the  factors  determining  the  dis- 
tribution, but  the  most  striking  feature  of  the  present  work  is  that  the 
shift  of  the  number  maximum  is  so  slight  with  the  different  methods  of 
stirring  employed."  By  number  maximum  Harkins  refers  to  the  number 
of  particles  of  the  dispersed  phase  in  a  definite  volume.  Thus  the  ap- 
paratus, its  speed,  and  the  time  used  in  mixing  emulsions  like  mayonnaise, 
may  or  may  not  determine  to  a  great  extent  the  size  of  the  particles  formed 
and  the  stability  of  the  emulsion. 

Intermittent  mixing  for  emulsions.  Clayton  states  that  what  may 
be  termed  the  mechanics  of  emulsification  are  far  from  being  understood 
even  now.  In  some  experiments  in  making  different  emulsions,   investiga- 


DOES  PEPTIZATION  PLAY  ROLE  IN  EMULSIFICATION?  275 

tors  have  reported  that  intermittent  shaking  is  more  effective  than  con- 
tinuous shaking  or  agitation.  Clayton  believes  that  shaking  is  an  inferior 
method  of  making  emulsions,  but  that  continuous  shaking  should  give 
equally  as  good  results  as  the  intermittent  shaking,  provided  the  emulsified 
portions  are  continuously  removed  from  the  mass.  Intermittent  agitation  is 
explained  as  being  more  effective  than  continuous  agitation,  because  of  the 
rest  periods,  w^hich  allow  time  for  adsorption  of  the  emulsifying  agent. 

In  making  mayonnaise,  the  beating  is  often  intermittent,  for  in  stopping 
to  add  oil  to  the  mixture,  short  rest  periods  occur. 

Foams  and  formation  of  emulsions.  Harkins  in  commenting  on  the 
method  of  preparation  of  emulsions,  states  that  in  a  number  of  cases  the 
emulsion  failed  to  form  after  stirring  rapidly  with  a  motor-driven  egg 
beater  for  5  minutes,  which  was  not  in  accord  with  the  usual  emulsifica- 
tion  in  a  few  seconds.  He  found  that  in  all  these  cases  no  foam  was  pro- 
duced, and  that  as  sooxi  as  a  foam  formed,  emulsification  occurred  in  a  few 
seconds.  This  may  be  a  factor  in  the  formation  of  some  emulsions  in  food 
preparation. 

MAYONNAISE 

Definition  by  Food  and  Drug  Administration.  "Mayonnaise,  may- 
onnaise dressing,  mayonnaise  salad  dressing,  is  the  semi-solid  emulsion  of 
edible  vegetable  oil,  egg  yolk,  or  whole  egg,  a  vinegar,  and/or  lemon  juice, 
with  one  or  more  of  the  following:  salt,  other  seasoning  commonly  used 
in  its  preparation,  sugar  and/or  dextrose.  The  finished  product  contains 
not  less  than  50  per  cent  of  edible  vegetable  oil." 

Does  peptization  play  a  role  in  emulsification?  In  no  theory  of 
emulsification  that  the  writer  has  read  is  peptization  mentioned.  Yet  the 
following  comments  by  Bancroft  on  peptization  so  vividly  describe  what 
happens  in  making  mayonnaise  that  they  are  given.  Bancroft,  in  his  chap- 
ter, ''Preparation  of  Colloidal  Solutions,"  states  that  the  methods  of 
making  colloidal  solutions  may  be  grouped  under  two  heads,  the  dispersion 
and  the  condensation  methods. 

The  making  of  mayonnaise,  HoUandaise  sauce,  gravies,  and  other  sauces 
in  which  an  emulsion  is  formed  comes  under  dispersion  methods,  for 
although  the  dispersed  phase  is  not  sufficiently  small  to  class  the  product 
as  a  sol,  the  dispersed  phase  must  be  broken  into  many  particles.  Bancroft 
states  that  one  means  of  dispersion  is  by  the  addition  of  a  peptizing  agent. 
He  says  that  peptization  is  always  due  to  adsorption.  "If  an  adsorbed  film 
has  a  low  surface  tension  on  the  water  side,  it  will  tend  to  scrunch  up  and 
to  peptize  the  solid  as  internal  phase.  If  the  reverse  is  the  case,  the  solid 
will  tend  to  form  the  external  phase."  If  the  word  oil  is  substituted  for 
solid  in  the  foregoing  quotation,  an  excellent  picture  of  the  formation  of 
mayonnaise  emulsion  is  obtained.  For  example,  if  one-fourth  cup  of  oil  is 


I 


276  EMULSIONS 

added  to  a  cup  or  more  of  well-emulsified  mayonnaise,  the  oil  may  be 
stirred  slowly  a  few  times  with  a  spoon,  15  to  20,  and  presto,  it  is  all 
emulsified.  The  stirring  could  not  possibly  break  the  oil  into  thousands  of 
small  particles.  Hence,  the  function  of  the  stirring  is  to  increase  the  area 
for  adsorption  to  occur  and  the  squeezing  effect  of  the  adsorbed  egg  yolk 
breaks  the  oil  into  many  spheres.  For  the  first  addition  of  oil  in  making 
mayonnaise  great  care  must  be  taken,  but  large  quantities  of  oil  may  be 
added  rapidly  in  the  last  part  of  the  process. 

Investigations  on  Mayonnaise  and  Emulsions 

Air  film  on  the  oil  phase.  Hall  and  Halstrom  have  reported  that  the 
presence  of  an  air  film  on  the  oil  phase,  as  it  is  introduced  into  the  emul- 
sifier  and  forming  emulsion  in  making  mayonnaise,  results  in  a  less  stable, 
inferior  emulsion  with  lower  specific  gravity  than  in  mayonnaise  prepared 
with  oil  having  no  such  air  films.  For  the  emulsions  having  air  films  on 
the  oil,  the  oil  was  added  from  a  buret  at  a  definite  rate,  the  point  of  the 
buret  being  six  inches  above  the  surface  of  the  forming  emulsion.  For  oil 
having  no  air  film  the  buret  point  was  lowered  so  that  the  oil  was  injected 
beneath  the  surface  of  the  forming  emulsion.  They  add,  "Clayton  pre- 
dicted that  when  the  dispersed  phase  is  injected  into  the  continuous  medium 
below  the  surface,  intermittent  injection  would  confer  no  advantage." 
From  their  results  Hall  and  Halstrom  felt  that  Clayton's  prediction  was 
a  sound  one. 

Water-holding  capacity  o£  emulsifier.  Kilgore  states  that  preserved 
yolks  are  available  in  five  main  conditions :  frozen  salted,  frozen  sugared, 
fresh  refrigerated,  especially  treated,  and  dried.  This  is  also  the  order  of 
their  volume  consumption  by  the  mayonnaise  trade.  Kilgore  emphasizes 
that  the  starting  mixture  to  which  the  oil  is  added  should  not  contain  too 
much  *'free"  water.  It  should  have  enough  **free"  moisture  to  start  emulsi- 
fication  yet  have  a  heavy  body,  like  a  thick  paste,  smooth  in  texture.  Frozen 
and  treated  yolks,  because  they  have  more  bound  and  less  '"free"  water  than 
fresh  yolks,  are  excellent  for  starting  mayonnaise  to  secure  a  fine  "grain." 
Yet  more  of  the  frozen  than  of  fresh  yolks  are  necessary  for  an  emulsion  of 
good  consistency.  Kilgore  adds  that  de-fatted  mustard  flour  is  an  excellent 
water-holding  ingredient ;  hence  it  gives  a  heavy  paste  and  also  has  decided 
emulsifying  powers. 

Emulsifying  properties  of  mustard.  Kilgore  determined  the  emulsi- 
fying properties  of  mustard  in  three  ways:  (1)  Foaming  ability,  (2)  the 
stability  of  oil  drops  on  a  mustard  solution,  and  (3)  the  stability  of  emul- 
sions made  with  mustard  solution  as  the  sole  emulsifying  agent.  In  a  75- 
pound  batch  of  mayonnaise  about  8  to  9  pounds  of  vinegar  and  5  to  6 
ounces  of  mustard  are  used,  which  gives  about  3.5  per  cent  concentration 
of  mustard.  The  concentrations  of  mustards  used  were:  0.1,  0.5,  1.0,  2.0, 
and  4.0  per  cent. 


THE  METHOD  OF  MIXING  277 

Foaming.  The  mustard  was  weighed  and  added  to  water  in  glass- 
stoppered  bottles  and  shaken.  Little  foam  was  formed  except  with  the  2 
and  4  per  cent  concentrations.  Good  emulsifiers  for  oil-in-water  emulsions 
usually  foam  readily  in  water. 

Oil  drops  on  mustard  solution.  The  mustard  solutions  were  obtained  by 
adding  the  mustard  to  water  and  filtering  ofif  the  residues  of  undissolved 
mustard.  About  70  per  cent  of  the  mustard  was  found  to  be  soluble.  If 
drops  of  oil  such  as  corn  oil  are  poured  on  water,  they  spread  in  a  film 
over  the  surface  of  the  water.  But  when  drops  of  oil  are  placed  on  water 
containing  an  emulsifying  agent  which  favors  the  formation  of  an  oil-in- 
water  emulsion,  spreading  does  not  occur.  The  drops  remain  separate  and 
distinct.  Kilgore  found  that  a  1  per  cent  mustard  solution  afforded  protec- 
tion for  the  oil  drops  but  a  4  per  cent  solution  gave  much  greater  protection. 

Stability  of  mustard  emulsions.  The  corn  oil  was  added  slowly  to  the 
mustard  solution  as  in  making  mayonnaise,  a  high-speed  drink  mixer  being 
used  as  a  whip.  After  being  stored  for  one  year  the  emulsions  made  with 
0.1,  0.5,  and  1.0  per  cent  of  mustard  were  broken.  Those  with  2.0  per  cent 
had  some  oil  on  top ;  and  the  emulsion  with  4.0  per  cent  mustard  did  not 
break  and  showed  no  leakage  of  oil,  although  it  contained  80  per  cent 
of  oil. 

Corran  formed  a  water-in-oil  emulsion  of  olive  oil  and  lime  water.  To 
this  emulsion  mustard  was  added.  When  the  concentration  of  mustard 
reached  2  per  cent,  the  emulsion  broke  and  reformed  as  an  oil-in-water 
emulsion.  Fine  mustard  flour  was  more  efficient  than  coarse  mustard  flour. 

Kilgore  in  continuing  his  work  with  mustard  and  emulsification  found 
that  mayonnaise  without  mustard  had  a  stififer  consistency  than  that  with 
a  de-fatted  mustard  flour.  But  he  found  this  depended  on  how  the  mustard 
was  added.  If  added  dry  it  decreased  initial  stiffness,  but  if  added  wet  it 
increased  the  stiffness.  De-fatted  yellow  mustard  flour  lost  its  emulsifying 
properties  if  mixed  with  vinegar  and  allowed  to  stand  longer  than  a  day; 
whereas  this  was  not  the  case  with  mustard  having  a  high  oil  content. 

Emulsifying  properties  of  oils.  Meszaros  states  the  size  of  the  fat 
drops  in  an  emulsion  depends  more  on  the  method  of  preparation  than  on 
the  properties  of  the  fat.  Meszaros  has  expressed  the  emulsification  capacity 
in  a  number  {E  number)  which  represents  the  milligrams  of  fat  which 
can  be  emulsified  under  certain  conditions  in  100  grams  of  water  without 
the  aid  of  emulsifying  agents.  Fats  tested  fall  in  four  groups:  (1)  Fats 
which  show  a  very  good  emulsification  capacity  {E  number  over  50)  ;  as 
goose  fat,  horse  fat,  lard,  crude  rapeseed  oil  (crude  sunflower  oil).  (2)  Good 
emulsifying  fats  {E  number  20-50),  as  butter,  butter  fat,  peanut  oil, 
sesame  oil.  (3)  Poor  emulsifying  fats  {E  number  about  10) — coconut  oil, 
palm-kernel  oil,  soybean  oil,  beef  tallow.  (4)  Very  poor  emulsifying  fats 
{E  number  10) — illipe  fat,  hardened  train  oil. 

The  method  of  mixing.  Kilgore,   Corran,   and  Hall  and   Halstrom 


278 


EMULSIONS 


emphasize  the  method  of  adding  the  oil  to  secure  a  stable  emulsion  of 
desirable  consistency.  Hall  and  Halstrom  found  that  the  method  they 
called  the  Compromise  Method  was  the  best.  For  this  method  a  portion  of 
the  oil  was  added  by  means  of  a  buret  above  or  beneath  the  surface  of  the 
forming  emulsion  until  optimum  dispersion  was  obtained.  They  state  that 
optimum  dispersion  might  properly  be  considered  the  critical  dispersion 
point.  At  this  point  maximum  thickness  is  attained  and  any  further  addi- 
tion of  oil  results  in  an  irrecoverable  breaking  of  the  emulsion.  This  oc- 
curred after  the  addition  of  30  to  35  cc.  of  oil  to  20  grams  of  beaten  egg 
yolk.  At  this  point  the  vinegar  and  spices  are  added.  This  thins  the 
emulsion  but  thickening  occurs  again  w^ith  the  addition  of  the  remainder 
of  the  oil.  The  amount  of  oil  added  was  such  that  the  mayonnaise  con- 
tained 89  to  93  per  cent  of  oil. 

For  the  method  which  Hall  and  Halstrom  called  American,  the  vinegar 
and  spices  were  added  to  the  egg  yolk.  After  blending  of  these  ingredients 
the  oil  was  added  in  the  same  manner  as  for  the  compromise  method. 
Their  results  follow : 

TABLE  40 

Stability  of  Mayonnaise  {Hall  and  Halstrom) 


Method 

Manner  in  which 
oil  was  added 

Stability  of  emulsion  after 
storing  at  8°C.  for  2  years 

Compromise 

Compromise 

American 

American 

Above  surface 
Beneath  surface 
Above  surface 
Beneath  surface 

Fragile,  partially  separated 

No  separation 

Complete  separation 

No  visible  separation,  but  fragile 

The  emulsifying  constituent  of  egg  yolk.  In  starting  their  investi- 
gation, Snell,  Olsen,  and  Kremers  added  lecithin  to  egg  yolk  in  making 
mayonnaise.  They  acted  under  the  general  assumption  that  lecithin  is  the 
constituent  of  egg  yolk  which  is  effective  in  producing  emulsions.  Hence 
it  was  thought  that  the  addition  of  more  lecithin  should  increase  the 
stability  of  the  mayonnaise.  But  all  the  mayonnaises  so  produced  had  poor 
consistency.  Next  they  studied  the  effect  of  each  of  the  known  major  con- 
stituents of  egg  yolk  on  mayonnaise.  It  was  found  that  none  of  these  sub- 
stances was  capable  of  producing  the  consistency  derived  from  the  whole 
egg  yolk. 

This  led  to  the  Investigation  which  demonstrated  that  egg  yolk  owes 
its  emulsifying  action  to  an  unstable  complex  containing  both  lecithin  and 
protein,  which  they  called  "lecitho-protein."  This  lecitho-protein  consti- 
tuted about  32.5  per  cent  of  the  salted  yolks. 


THE  METHOD  OF  MIXING  279 


Factors  Affecting  the  Ease  o£  Formation  and      ^~==~ 
Stability  of  Mayonnaise 

In  making  mayonnaise,  several  factors  affect  the  formation  of  the  emul- 
sion, its  stability,  and  ease  of  making.  The  major  factors  may  be  listed  as 
follows:  (1)  degree  and  kind  of  agitation,  (2)  the  method  of  mixing, 
(3)  the  ingredients  used,  and  (4)  temperature.  Some  of  these  may  be 
further  subdivided. 

Degree  and  kind  of  agitation.  This  factor  has  already  been  partially 
discussed.  Under  it  can  be  included  the  kind  of  apparatus  used  as  well  as 
rate  of  agitation.  Good  stable  mayonnaises  may  be  formed  by  both  con- 
tinuous and  intermittent  agitation.  Hall  and  Halstrom  have  demonstrated 
that  very  stable  concentrated  mayonnaise  may  be  formed  by  continuous 
agitation  if  the  oil  is  added  beneath  the  surface  of  the  forming  emulsion. 
Clayton  states  that  it  is  a  well-known  fact  that  agitation  can  both  make 
and  break  an  emulsion.  It  has  often  been  observed  in  the  laboratory,  when 
the  vinegar  and  seasoning  have  been  added  to  the  egg  yolk  before  any  oil 
is  added,  that  rapid  agitation  for  the  first  additions  of  oil  is  advantageous; 
otherwise  the  resulting  mayonnaise  is  less  viscous. 

The  kind  of  bowl  used.  Some  failures  in  making  mayonnaise  are  due 
to  putting  small  quantities  of  the  egg  yolk  in  a  large  mixing  bowl.  As  a 
result  the  egg  yolk  spreads  out  in  such  a  thin  layer  that  the  egg  beater 
picks  up  very  little  of  the  egg  and  an  emulsion  is  not  formed  with  the  first 
portions  of  the  oil  added.  Sometimes  the  rod  at  the  bottom  of  the  rotary 
egg  beater  is  thick  and  holds  the  beater  above  the  contents  of  the  bowl, 
provided  the  quantity  of  material  in  the  bowl  is  small  and  the  egg  beater 
is  held  upright. 

The  method  of  mixing.  Under  the  method  of  mixing  may  be  grouped 
the  following:  (1)  the  method  of  adding  the  oil,  (2)  the  quantity  of  oil 
that  is  added  at  first,  (3)  the  time  of  adding  the  vinegar,  and  (4)  the  time 
the  seasonings  are  added. 

The  method  of  adding  the  oil.  Hall  and  Halstrom  have  shown  that  a 
more  stable  emulsion  is  formed  when  the  oil  is  added  beneath  the  surface 
of  the  forming  emulsion. 

The  quantity  of  oil  that  is  added  at  first.  Often  the  statement  is  seen 
that  mayonnaise  can  be  made  by  putting  all  the  ingredients  in  the  mixing 
bowl  and  then  beating.  The  author  (see  Experiment  52C,3)  has  never 
been  able  to  do  this  and  has  never  witnessed  the  making  of  it  in  this  way. 
Many  water-and-oil  emulsions  can  be  made  by  putting  all  the  ingredients 
together  and  shaking  or  stirring,  but  mayonnaise  does  not  seem  to  belong 
to  this  group.  It  is  possible  that  some  factors  may  occasionally  influence 
the  formation  of  an  emulsion  so  that  it  is  formed  when  all  the  ingredients 
are  added  at  once  to  make  mayonnaise. 

Mark  expresses  the  amount  of  oil  that  can  be  added  and  an  emulsion 


280  EMULSIONS 

obtained  as  follows:  "(1)  If  the  proportion  of  oil  to  that  of  egg  or  of  the 
emulsion  already  produced  was  kept  below  a  certain  maximum  a  stable 
emulsion  always  resulted,  no  matter  what  the  temperature  or  manner  of 
beating,  (2)  that  if  the  proportion  of  oil  added  exceeded  a  certain  maxi- 
mum, the  egg  or  the  emulsion  already  formed  became  dispersed  in  oil  and 
no  permanent  emulsion  was  formed,  (3)  that  if  the  proportion  between 
these  limits  were  used  a  permanent  emulsion  might  or  might  not  be  formed, 
dependent  on  such  variables  as  manner  of  beating  and  temperature,  (4)  that 
if  egg  was  previously  diluted  by  adding  vinegar  the  proportion  of  oil 
which  could  be  permanently  emulsified  was  greatly  increased  during  the 
addition  of  the  first  and  second  portions  of  oil,  but  that  as  viscosity  of  the 
mixture  increased  the  maximum  ratio  of  oil  to  emulsion  rapidly  approached 
the  value  found  when  egg  alone  was  used  at  first." 

Mayonnaise  is  formed  more  readily  if  the  quantity  of  oil  added  at  first 
is  small.  But  the  quantity  of  oil  that  can  be  added  to  egg  yolk  for  the  first 
addition  of  oil  and  still  obtain  a  stable  emulsion  depends  somewhat  upon 
the  rate  of  agitation,  the  combined  volume  of  egg  yolk  and  vinegar,  the 
temperature  of  the  ingredients,  and  other  factors.  If  the  above  factors  are 
standardized  and  if  the  combined  volume  of  the  vinegar  and  the  egg  yolk 
is  y!\  cup,  the  quantity  of  oil  that  can  be  added  and  emulsified  is  a  definite 
quantity.  If  the  combined  egg  yolk  and  vinegar  is  ^  cup,  the  quantity  of 
oil  that  can  be  added  will  be  2  times  as  much  as  for  ^  cup  under  the  same 
conditions.  Using  1  egg  yolk  and  15  cc.  of  vinegar  and  beating  with  a 
rotary  egg  beater  in  a  round-bottomed  jar,  Experiment  52C,  2,  12  tea- 
spoons of  oil  have  been  the  limit  for  the  first  addition  of  oil.  Often  only 
10  or  11  teaspoons  can  be  added.  This  large  quantity  of  oil  must  be  care- 
fully emulsified  before  the  second  portion  of  oil  is  added.  The  volume  of 
the  egg  yolk  and  vinegar  is  a  little  over  2  tablespoons.  Thus  the  volume 
of  oil  that  can  be  added,  7  to  10  teaspoons,  is  about  the  same  as  the 
volume  of  the  egg  yolk  plus  the  vinegar.  The  emulsion  is  formed  more 
easily  if  smaller  quantities,  2  to  3  teaspoons,  of  oil  are  added  at  first.  The 
second  addition  of  oil,  and  any  subsequent  addition,  must  not  exceed  a 
definite  relation  to  the  volume  of  emulsion  already  formed.  In  making 
salad  dressing  with  1  egg,  1  cup  of  cornstarch  paste,  a  cup  of  oil,  and 
vinegar,  all  the  oil  can  be  added  at  first,  but  here  again  the  volume  of  the 
oil  is  about  the  same  as  that  of  the  emulsifier,  i.e.,  the  egg  yolk  plus  the 
cornstarch  paste. 

The  time  o£  adding  the  vinegar.  Part  or  all  of  the  vinegar  may  be 
added  at  various  intervals  during  the  mixing  or  it  may  be  added  to  the  egg 
yolk  alternately  with  the  oil.  It  may  be  added  after  considerable  oil  is 
added  to  the  egg  yolk  (Experiment  52A,1,2,3)  or  before  any  oil  is  added. 
By  the  last  method  the  oil  may  be  added  in  larger  quantities  for  the  first 
and  second  additions,  and  the  mayonnaise  made  more  rapidly.  How^ever, 
the  size  of  the  oil  particles  that  are  first  emulsified  is  quite  large  when  the 
vinegar  is  added  to  the  egg  yolk  before  the  oil  is  added.   But  with  each 


THE  INGREDIENTS  USED  281 

subsequent  addition  of  oil  the  dispersed  particles  become  smaller,  and  the 
mayonnaise  stiffer.  This  is  shown  in  Figs.  27  to  30,  which  are  photo- 
micrographs of  mayonnaise.  If  the  oil  is  added  to  the  egg  yolk  before  the 
vinegar,  the  first  oil  particles  emulsified  are  very  small  and  remain  small 
with  subsequent  additions  of  oil.  When  the  vinegar  is  added,  the  dispersed 
globules  become  larger,  and  the  mayonnaise  less  stiff. 

Kilgore  suggests  the  following  method.  The  salt,  mustard,  and  other  dry 
seasonings  are  added  at  first  to  fresh  egg  yolks,  for  they  aid  in  holding  the 
excess  moisture.  To  this  is  added  just  enough  vinegar  to  make  a  heavy 
paste.  Then  run  in  the  oil  until  half  is  added,  add  another  portion  of 
vinegar,  equal  to  that  at  the  start,  and  the  remainder  at  the  end  of  the 
batch. 

Corran  suggests  that  the  emulsification  be  carried  out  in  three  stages. 
( 1 )  The  dry  ingredients,  egg  yolk,  and  part  of  the  aqueous  ingredients 
are  mixed  thoroughly.  (2)  All  the  oil  is  added,  forming  a  creamy  nucleus. 
(3)  The  creamy  nucleus  is  diluted  with  the  remainder  of  the  aqueous 
ingredients. 

The  ingredients  used.  These  include  the  oil,  the  salt  and  seasonings, 
the  vinegar,  the  egg  yolks,  and  even  previously  emulsified  mayonnaise. 
Any  of  the  edible  oils  may  be  used  in  mayonnaise. 

Salt  and  seasonings.  Salt,  mustard,  paprika,  and  pepper  are  usually 
added  to  mayonnaise.  Small  amounts  of  other  seasonings  may  be  used. 
Pasteurized  spice  mixtures  are  also  now  available  to  the  mayonnaise  manu- 
facturer. The  addition  of  an  electrolyte  to  an  emulsion  may  produce 
different  results,  depending  upon  the  electrolyte,  the  emulsifier,  and  the 
type  of  emulsion.  Some  electrolytes  cause  reversal  of  certain  emulsions; 
others  may  tend  to  stabilize  the  emulsion.  Seifriz  in  his  work  with  emul- 
sions stabilized  with  casein  found  that  sodium  chloride  had  no  influence 
on  the  water-in-oil  emulsions,  but  tended  to  stabilize  oil-in-water  emul- 
sions. The  effect  of  sodium  chloride  would  probably  vary  with  the  emul- 
sifier and  the  concentration  of  the  salt.  Krantz  and  Gordon  found  that 
the  concentration  of  the  sodium  chloride  affected  the  stability  of  some 
emulsions.  In  mayonnaise,  when  egg  yolk  is  used  as  the  emulsifier  and 
with  the  proportion  of  salt  given  in  Experiment  52,  it  has  been  found  that 
the  addition  of  the  salt  to  the  egg  yolk  before  the  addition  of  any  oil  tends 
to  stabilize  the  emulsion.  In  these  experiments  the  vinegar  was  also  added 
to  the  egg  yolk  before  the  oil  was  added.  When  the  salt  is  added  to  the 
mayonnaise  after  the  oil  has  been  added,  the  size  of  the  dispersed  oil 
globules  is  larger  and  the  emulsion  breaks  more  readily  while  it  is  being 
made,  indicating  a  lessened  stability.  The  amount  of  salt  used  in  the  recipe 
may  tend  to  lessen  the  solubility  of  the  egg  proteins  sufficiently  so  that  a 
more  tenacious  film  is  formed.  If  the  concentration  of  the  salt  is  great 
enough  to  "salt  out"  the  egg  proteins,  then  different  results  would  be 
obtained.  Thus  it  seems  preferable  to  add  the  salt  to  the  egg  yolk  and 
vinegar  before  adding  the  oil  in  making  mayonnaise.  Calcium  salts,  since 


282 


EMULSIONS 


Fig.  27. — Mayonnaise.  Showing  the  coarse  emulsion  formed  after  the  addition  of 
one  tablespoon  of  oil.  The  vinegar  and  seasonings  were  added  to  the  egg  yolk, 
before  the  oil  was  added.  Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


Fig.  28. — Mayonnaise.  Same  as  Fig.  27,  but  after  adding  one-fourth  cup  of  oil. 
Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


THE  INGREDIENTS  USED 


283 


^y^^lLr-^.  <'/^iQ|jp|r  3i^£JpVj^ 

Fig.  29. — Mayonnaise.  Same  as  Fig.  28,  but  after  adding  three-eighths  cup  of 
oil.  As  the  oil  spheres  become  smaller  with  the  addition  of  more  oil  the  mayon- 
naise becomes  stiffer.  Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


Fig.  30. — Mayonnaise.  Same  as  Fig.  29,  but  after  the  addition  of  one-half  cup 
of  oil.  Magnification  approximately  x  200. 


284  EMULSIONS 

they  tend  to  form  water-in-oil  emulsions,  are  detrimental  to  mayonnaise. 
Hence  it  is  recommended  that  the  salt  used  should  contain  less  than  0.1  per 
cent  of  foreign  calcium  salts.  Kilgore's  results  indicate  it  is  preferable  to 
add  the  mustard  to  at  least  part  of  the  vinegar  to  make  a  paste.  This  is 
then  added  to  the  egg  yolk. 

Egg  yolks.  Johnson  and  Mark  have  reported  that  cold-storage  eggs  are 
inferior  to  fresh  eggs  for  making  mayonnaise. 

However,  frozen  yolks,  either  salted  or  sugared,  are  more  extensively 
used  at  the  present  time  than  fresh  yolks.  Kilgore  states  the  fresh  yolk  is 
usually  too  light  in  body  to  produce  a  good  emulsion  at  the  start.  This  is 
true  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  fresh  yolk  is  the  best  possible  emulsifier  and 
that  less  can  be  used  than  is  required  for  frozen  yolk.  The  freezing 
changes  the  physical  consistency  of  the  yolk.  Upon  defrosting  the  frozen 
yolks  are  very  thick  and  paste  like,  owing  to  the  binding  of  the  water 
during  freezing. 

The  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  einulsified  mayonnaise.  Mayonnaise 
is  very  easily  made  if  from  ^  to  1/3  cup  of  previously  made  mayonnaise  is 
added  to  the  egg  yolk  and  vinegar.  This  gives  a  larger  quantity  of  mate- 
rial to  work  wnth,  but  if  an  emulsion  is  already  started  the  emulsification 
of  additional  oil  is  accomplished  more  readily.  After  an  emulsion  is  once 
formed,  subsequent  additions  of  oil  are  very  easily  emulsified.  This  is 
analogous  to  seeding  in  crystal  formation  and  the  addition  of  an  old  gel 
to  gelatin  to  hasten  jelly  formation.  Egg  yolk  is  itself  an  emulsion  con- 
taining about  30  per  cent  of  fat. 

Kilgore  states,  ''another  solution  to  the  problem  of  producing  high  con- 
sistency mayonnaise  having  medium  or  low  yolk  content,  is  to  start  the 
emulsion  by  means  of  some  finished  mayonnaise  added  to  the  yolk  and 
spices.  This  trick  of  starting  an  emulsion,  or  'seeding'  it,  by  means  of  one 
previously  made  is  common  in  pharmaceuticals.  It  is  the  fundamental  prin- 
ciple of  a  process  for  continuous  emulsification." 

Temperature.  Clayton  states  that,  in  general,  the  effect  of  rise  In  tem- 
perature Is  to  make  emulsification  easier.  The  reason  for  this  is  that 
viscosity  Is  reduced  with  a  rise  in  temperature,  but  more  important,  a  rise 
In  temperature  Is  accompanied  by  a  decrease  in  the  interfacial  tension  of 
non-miscible  liquids.  Branch  states  that  In  commercial  production  of  may- 
onnaise the  temperature  of  the  mixing  room  is  kept  at  65°  to  75 °F. 

Breaking  Mayonnaise 

Water  may  separate  at  the  bottom  of  a  mayonnaise  after  long  standing. 
Robinson  states  that  this  seldom  occurs  if  the  amount  of  water  in  the  mayon- 
naise does  not  exceed  15  per  cent.  With  the  percentage  of  water  higher 
than  15  the  separation  occurs  more  frequently. 

Oil  may  separate  at  the  top  of  the  mayonnaise.  Anything  that  destroys 
the  film-forming  properties  of  the  emulsifying  agent  and  lets  the  dispersed 


CONCENTRATION  OF  OIL  IN  MAYONNAISE        285 

phase  run  together  destroys  the  emulsion.  Over-heating,  when  the  oil  and 
liquid  expand  at  different  rates,  the  additions  of  salts,  drying  of  the  sur- 
face, freezing,  and  jarring  may  all  cause  separation  in  mayonnaise.  The 
addition  of  enough  salt  (sodium  chloride)  to  "salt  out"  the  emulsifier 
will  break  emulsions  stabilized  with  proteins,  but  this  requires  far  more 
salt  than  is  ordinarily  used  in  mayonnaise.  The  amount  commonly  used 
aids  in  stabilizing  the  mayonnaise. 

Freezing  dehydrates  the  egg,  because  the  water  separates  from  the  egg 
protein  in  ice  crystals,  thus  breaking  the  film.  Agitation  or  shaking  in 
shipping  tends  to  break  the  emulsion.  Evaporation  from  the  surface  of  the 
mayonnaise  may  cause  drying  of  the  emulsifying  agent  and  consequently 
coalescing  of  the  oil  on  the  surface.  Mayonnaise  keeps  better  in  covered 
containers  which  prevent  evaporation.  Fischer  and  Hooker  state  that,  if 
the  protein  emulsifier  is  diluted  beyond  the  point  at  which  it  will  take  up 
all  the  water,  the  emulsion  tends  to  break.  Heating,  resulting  in  too  much 
evaporation  of  the  liquid,  causes  separation  of  the  fat  in  gravies,  sauces,  and 
cream  pui¥s. 

Re-forming  broken  mayonnaise.  The  usual  procedure  to  re-form 
broken  mayonnaise  is  to  take  a  new  egg  yolk  and  add  the  curdled,  broken 
mayonnaise  to  this  gradually.  It  is  added  and  beaten  in  the  same  manner 
as  when  the  oil  is  originally  added  to  the  egg  yolk.  But  it  is  not  necessary 
to  use  egg  yolk  to  re-form  the  emulsion.  It  can  be  re-formed  by  adding 
the  broken  emulsion  gradually  to  a  tablespoon  of  water  or  vinegar.  The 
broken  emulsion  must  be  added  gradually  to  the  water  or  vinegar  and 
beaten  during  the  addition.  It  will  not  re-form  if  the  water  or  vinegar  is 
added  to  the  mass  of  broken  emulsion.  See  Experiment  52, D. 

The  Concentration  of  Oil  in  Mayonnaise 

The  amount  of  oil  that  can  be  permanently  emulsified  varies  with  the 
emulsifier,  the  oil  used,  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is  added.  Pickering 
has  emulsified  "99  per  cent  of  paraffin  oil  in  1  cc.  of  1  per  cent  potash  solu- 
tion by  successive  addition  of  small  portions."  The  concentration  of  oil  in 
food  emulsions  varies  from  a  very  low  percentage  up  to  about  85  per  cent. 

Mayonnaise  containing  slightly  more  than  95  per  cent  of  oil  has  been 
made  in  the  laboratory,  but  it  usually  breaks  shortly  after  a  little  more 
than  90  per  cent  of  oil  has  been  added.  The  stiffening  of  mayonnaise 
containing  over  90  per  cent  of  oil  makes  it  difficult  to  mix  the  last  addition 
of  oil.  Mayonnaise  with  more  than  90  per  cent  of  oil  resembles  jelly  in 
consistency;  cut  with  a  knife  or  spoon  it  retains  its  shape.  It  will  keep 
varying  lengths  of  time  in  a  covered  jar  in  the  refrigerator.  Some  break  in 
a  short  time,  but  most  of  them  keep  for  several  days  or  weeks.  Probably 
this  variation  in  breaking  is  partially  due  to  variations  in  beating  in  form- 
ing emulsions.  After  standing  a  short  time,  if  the  dressing  is  cut  or  if  some 
is  lifted  out  of  the  jar,  there  is  a  tendency  for  oil  drops  to  form  gradually 


286  EMULSIONS 

on  the  cut  surface.  It  separates  more  readily  than  mayonnaise  with  a 
lower  percentage  of  oil.  Ordinary  mayonnaise  containing  from  ^  to  ^ 
cup  of  oil  to-  1  egg  yolk,  and  15  cc.  of  vinegar  averages  from  65  to  75 
per  cent  of  oil.  Hall  and  Halstrom,  by  introducing  the  oil  beneath  the 
surface  of  the  forming  emulsion,  obtained  mayonnaise  with  a  concentration 
of  89  to  93  per  cent  of  oil  that  remained  stable  for  two  years  when  stored 
at  8°C. 

Some  Food  Emulsions 

Salad  dressing.  The  Food  and  Drug  Administration  has  defined 
mayonnaise  as  being  made  with  either  egg  yolk  or  whole  egg.  Hence,  a 
product  which  may  be  similar  to  mayonnaise  but  stabilized  with  egg  white, 
or  part  egg  yolk  and  part  starch  paste,  is  called  a  salad  dressing.  Home- 
makers  have  used  many  emulsifying  agents  such  as  egg  yolk,  whole  egg, 
egg  white,  cooked  egg  yolk,  gelatin,  starch  paste,  meat  extract,  and  mashed 
potato.  However,  they  are  not  equally  efficient.  The  order  for  efficiency 
is  as  follows :  egg  yolk,  whole  egg,  egg  white,  gelatin,  and  starch  paste. 

Fats  such  as  butter  and  lard  may  be  melted  and  substituted  in  a  mayon- 
naise formula,  but  the  product  is  a  salad  dressing.  Mineral  oil  may  also  be 
used  in  a  mayonnaise  formula.  Boiled  salad  dressings  are  also  emulsions. 

French  dressings.  French  dressings  are  usually  temporary  emulsions, 
but  some  are  quite  stable.  There,  seems  to  be  less  separation  of  oil  at  the 
top  and  of  water  at  the  bottom,  if  the  phase-volume  rule  is  observed,  and 
the  oil  composes  about  74  per  cent  of  the  emulsion..  The  seasonings,  pow- 
dered paprika  and  mustard,  are  the  emulsifiers.  It  is  possible  that  traces 
of  some  substances  in  the  vinegar  may  occasionally  aid  emulsification. 

Emulsions  stabilized  with  flour.  In  gravies  and  sauces  the  amount  of 
oil  that  can  be  permanently  emulsified  is  much  smaller  than  in  maj'onnaise. 
Gravies  and  sauces  in  which  the  oil  separates  may  be  made  smooth  again 
by  adding  water  and  stirring  while  heating.  The  addition  of  water  lessens 
the  percentage  of  oil  in  the  product.  Emulsions  stabilized  with  flour  or 
starch  need  a  higher  percentage  of  water  than  mayonnaise.  The  starch 
absorbs  a  large  portion  of  the  liquid,  which  accounts  for  a  large  part  of 
the  water,  but  even  if  the  maximum  absorptive  power  of  the  starch  is 
accounted  for  a  large  amount  of  water  is  still  needed.  This  type  of  emul- 
sion belongs  in  the  class  of  hydrated  colloids  referred  to  by  Fischer  and 
Hooker,  in  which  they  state  that  the  water  must  not  be  reduced  below 
a  lower  limit  and  must  not  exceed  an  upper  limit. 

Cream  puffs.  Cream  puffs  are  good  examples  of  a  batter  in  which  the 
fat  is  emulsified.  See  Chapter  XII,  Experiment  80.  In  the  recipe  as  given 
in  the  experiment,  the  fat  constitutes  about  17  per  cent  of  the  uncooked 
ingredients,  if  the  fat  content  of  the  butter  is  used  as  85,  the  eggs  as  10.5, 
and  the  flour  as  1.5  per  cent.  The  cooking  of  the  water,  flour,  and  fat  will 
increase  this  percentage,  as  will  the  baking,  on  account  of  evaporation  of 


REFERENCES  287 

water.  The  fat  does  not  run  or  ooze  out  of  the  dough  while  the  puffs  are 
baking. 

If  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  are  reduced  to  2  but  no  other  change  is  made, 
Experiment  80C,2,  the  percentage  of  fat  in  uncooked  materials  is  about 
18.6.  The  fat  in  these  puffs  runs  out  of  the  dough  and  over  the  baking  pan 
in  large  quantities  while  baking.  With  the  smaller  quantity  of  egg  the  emul- 
sion does  not  hold,  but  if  the  amount  of  water  added  is  increased  to  1^ 
cups  when  the  eggs  are  reduced  to  2,  the  amount  of  fat  in  the  uncooked 
ingredients  is  about  17  per  cent.  The  fat  in  these  puffs  does  not  ooze 
out  while  they  are  baking.  Although  the  quantity  of  egg  is  important,  this 
also  shows  that  it  is  essential  to  have  a  definite  proportion  of  liquid  to 
prevent  breaking  of  the  emulsion. 

Cakes.  The  fat  in  a  cake  batter  may  or  may  not  be  emulsified.  A  micro- 
scopic study  of  cake  batters  shows  that  there  is  a  tendency  for  oils  to  be 
emulsified  as  oil-in-water  emulsions,  no  matter  what  the  method  of  mixing. 
Often  the  oil  is  not  wholly  emulsified,  the  degree  of  emulsification  varying 
with  the  extent  of  mixing,  the  temperature,  and  other  factors.  When  butter 
or  hard  fats  are  used  in  cakes  or  batter  products,  they  may  be  partially  or 
wholly  emulsified,  if  they  are  melted  before  adding  to  the  batter  and  pro- 
vided the  temperature  of  the  batter  is  not  so  low  as  to  chill  the  fat  quickly  ; 
or  they  may  be  emulsified  if  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  is  above  the 
melting  point  of  the  fat,  so  that  the  fat  is  melted.  In  ordinary  methods 
and  temperatures  of  mixing  cakes,  the  butter  and  hard  fats  do  not  give 
oil-in-water  emulsions. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Bancroft,  W.  D.  Theory  of  Emulsification.  I,  II,  III,  IV,  V,  J.  Physical  Chem. 
16:  179,  345,  474,  739  (1912)  ;  17:  501   (1913). 

Bancroft,  W.  D.  Applied  Colloid  Chemistry.  Chapters  VII  and  IX.  McGraw- 
Hill   Co.     Third  Ed.      (1932). 

Bhatnagar,  S.  S.  Studies  in  Emulsions.  III.  Further  Investigations  on  the 
Reversal  of  Type   by  Electrolytes.     J.   Chem.   Soc.   119:    1760    (1921). 

Branch,  E.  L.  Production  of  Commercial  Mayonnaise.  Am.  Food  J.  19:  460 
(1924). 

Brooks,  R.  O.  The  Science  of  Mayonnaise  Manufacture.  The  Canner.  June 
4.     p.  37      (1927). 

Clark,  G.  L.,  and  Mann,  W.  A.  A  Quantitative  Study  of  the  Adsorption  in 
Solution  and  at  Interfaces  of  Sugars,  Dextrin,  Starch,  Gum  Arabic,  and  Egg 
Albumin,  and  the  Mechanism  of  Their  Action  as  Emulsifying  Agents.  J. 
Biol.  Chem.  52:  157    (1922). 

Clayton,  W.  The  Theory  of  Emulsions  and  Their  Technical  Treatment.  J.  &  A. 
Churchill.    Third  edition  (1935). 

Clowes,  G.  H.  A.  Protoplasmic  Equilibrium.  I.  Action  of  Antagonistic  Elec- 
trolytes on  Emulsions  and  Living  Cells.    J.  Physical  Chem.  20:  407  (1916). 

Corran,  J.  W.     Emulsification   by  Mustard.     Food   Manufacture.     9:   17    (1934). 

Finkle,  F.,  Draper,  H.  D.,  and  Hildebrand,  J.  H.  The  Theory  of  Emulsification. 
National  Symposium  on  Colloid  Chemistry.     Vol.  I.     p.  196  (1923). 

Fischer,  M.  H.     Soaps  and  Proteins.     John  Wiley  &  Sons    (1921). 


288  EMULSIONS 

Fischer,  M.  H.,   and   Hooker,   M.   D.     Fat   and   Fatty   Degeneration.     John  Wiley 

&    Sons    (1917). 
Fischer,  M.  H.    Emulsification.     Oil  &  Soap  13:  30   (1936). 
Gray,   D.  M.,  and  Southwick,   C.  A.,  Jr.     The  Mayonnaise  Emulsion.     The   Glass 

Packer  2:  17,  77   (1929). 
Ghosh,   S.,   and    Dhar,   N.  R.     The   Influence   of  Ions   Carrying   the   Same    Charge 

as  the   Dispersed  Particles  in  Inversion  of  Emulsion.     J.   Physical   Chem.   30: 

294    (1926). 
Hall,   I.   S.,   and   Halstrom,   E.   E.     The   Effect  of   an   Air   Film   on   the    Oil    Phase 

of  Emulsions  of  the  Mayonnaise  Variety  and  a  Comparison  of  Two  Methods 

of  Preparation.     A   paper   given   at  Am.    Home   Econ.   Assoc,   Seattle,   July   7 

(1936).     Also  personal  communication. 
Harkins,   W.   D.     The    Stability  of  Emulsions,   Monomolecular   and   Polymolecular 

Films,   Thickness   of   the   Water    Film   in  Salt   Solution    and    the    Spreading  of 

Liquids.      Colloid    Symposium   Monograph.        Vol.    V,      Chemical    Catalog   Co. 

(1928). 
Harkins,   W.   D.,   and   Kieth,   E.   B.     The   Oriented   Wedge   Theory  of   Emulsions. 

Sci.  59:  463   (1924). 
Hildebrand,  J.  H,     The  Theory  of  Emulsification,   Chapter  VII,  The  Theory  and 

Application   of   Colloidal   Behavior.      Edited    by   R.    H.    Bogue.      McGraw-Hill 

Co.   (1924). 
Holmes,  H.  N.     Emulsions  and  Foams.     Chapter  VIII.     The  Theory  and  Applica- 
tion of  Colloidal  Behavior.     Edited  by  R.  H.  Bogue.     McGraw-Hill  Co.  (1924). 
Johnstone,  M.     Mayonnaise  Dressing.     J.  Home  Econ.  6:  476   (1914). 
Kilgore,    L.    B.      Observations    on    the    Proper    Amount    of    Yolk    in    Mayonnaise. 

U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  39:  42,  March  (1933). 
Kilgore,  L.  B.     Egg  Yolk  "Makes"  Mayonnaise.     Food  Ind.  7:  299    (1935). 
Kilgore,  L.  B.     The  Mustard  and  the  Mayonnaise.     Glass  Packer   11:  621    (1932) 

and  12:  97   (1933). 
Krantz,   J.    C.   Jr.,    and    Gordon,    N.    E.      Emulsions    and    the    Effect   of    Hydrogen 

Ion    Concentration    upon    Their    Stability.      Colloid    Symposium    Monograph. 

Vol.  VI.     p.  173    (1928). 
Langmuir,  I.     The  Constitution  and  Fundamental  Properties  of  Solids  and  Liquids. 

II.     Liquids.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  39:  1848    (1917). 
Mark,  K.  L.     Emulsification  in  Mayonnaise.     J.  Home  Econ.  13:  447   (1921). 
Mayonnaise,    an    article.      Preparation    and    formula    for    processing    mayonnaise. 

Canning  Age  16:  328   (1935). 
Meszaros,  G.    The  Emulsification  Capacity  of  Edible  Fats.     Z.  Untersuch  Lebensum 

69:  318  (1936)  ;  Abstracted  In  Oil  &  Soap  13:  20   (1936). 
Pickering,  S.  W.     Emulsions.     J.  Chem.  Soc.     91:  2001    (1907). 
Robinson,    S.    K.      Practise    In    Mayonnaise    Manufacture.      Am.    Food    J.    19:    185 

(1924). 
Rogers,  L.  A.     Fundamentals  of  Dairy  Science.     By  Associates  of  Rogers.     Chem- 
ical Catalog  Co.  (1935). 
Selfriz,  W.     Studies  In  Emulsions.     I.     Types  of  Hydrocarbon  Oil  Emulsions.     II. 

The   Effect   of   Electrolytes    on    Petroleum    Oil    Emulsions.      J.    Physical    Chem. 

29:  587    (1925).     III.     Double  Reversal   of   Oil   Emulsions   Occasioned   by   the 

Same  Electrolyte.     IV.     Multiple   Systems.     V.     The   Stabilization   Membrane. 

J.  Physical  Chem.  29:  738    (1925).     VI.     The  Effect  of  Acidity  on  Type   and 

Reversibility  of  Emulsions.     VII.     The  Effect  of  Phase  Ratio   and  of  Method 

in   Handling  on   Emulsion   Type.     VIII.     A   Comparison   of   the   Behavior   of 

Vegetable  Oils  with  that  of  Petroleum  Oils.     J.  Physical  Chem.  29:  834  (1925). 
Snell,  H.  M.,  Olsen,  A.  G.,  and  Kremers,  R.  E.     Lecltho-Protein.     The  Emulsifying 

Ingredient  in  Egg  Yolk.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  27:  1222  (1935). 
Stamm,  A.  J.     Experimental  Study  of  Emulsification  on  the  Basis  of  Distribution 


EMULSIONS 


289 


of  Size   of  Particles.     Colloidal    Symposium   Monograph.     Vol.    III.     p.   251. 
Chemical  Catalog  Co.   (1925). 
Thomas,    A.    W.      Emulsions,    A    Review   of    the    Literature.      Ind.    Eng.    Chem. 
12:  177   (1920). 

EMULSIONS 
Experiment  52. 

To  determine  some  of  the  factors  that  affect  the  formation  and  stability  of 
emulsions. 


Mayonnaise: 

Egg  yolk 

1 

18  grams 

Mustard 

}i  teaspoon 

Vinegar 

1  tablespoon 

15  grams 

Paprika 

yi  teaspoon 

Oil 

yi  cup 

108  grams 

Sugar 

}4  teaspoon 

Salt 

>2  teaspoon 

In  studying  emulsions,  a  microscope  is  a  great  aid.  For  very  fine  emulsions 
a  small  portion  is  placed  on  a  slide  and  covered  with  a  cover  glass.  With  coarse 
and  unstable  emulsions  it  is  better  not  to  use  a  cover  glass  for  the  weight  of 
the  cover  glass  often  breaks  the  emulsion.  If  the  oil  or  fat  is  colored  a  dark 
red  with  Scarlet  R,  the  type  of  emulsion  formed  can  be  determined  with  the 
microscope.  An  oil-in-water  emulsion  has  a  red  oil  dispersed  in  small  spheres; 
a  water-in-oil  emulsion  has  a  red  field  and  light-colored  spheres.  To  color  the 
oil  or  fat,  add  the  powdered  Scarlet  R  and  then  stir.  It  should  stand  over 
night  to  dissolve  the  dye  thoroughly. 

Store  the  emulsions  in  jelly  glasses.  Label,  then  cover  the  glasses  to  prevent 
evaporation.  Put  away  in  the  refrigerator  to  determine  the  permanency  of 
the  emulsion. 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  method  of  combining  the  in- 
gredients  in   making  mayonnaise. 

1.  Put  the  egg  yolk  into  a  small  bowl,  add  the  seasonings  and  the  vinegar, 
and  beat  with  a  rotary  egg  beater.  It  may  be  necessary  to  tilt  the  bowl  or  egg 
beater  at  first,  in  order  that  the  egg  beater  blades  may  come  in  contact  with 
the  small  amount  of  material.  Add  the  oil  in  small  quantities  at  first,  about  j^ 
teaspoon,  then  in  larger  quantities  as  the  emulsion  is  formed. 

2.  Mix  the  egg  yolk  and  seasoning.  Follow  directions  under  Al,  for  beating. 
Add  about  ^  teaspoon  of  oil.  Beat,  then  add  y^  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Beat. 
Continue  adding  oil  and  vinegar  alternately.  After  all  the  vinegar  is  added, 
add  the  oil  in  larger  quantities. 

3.  Beat  the  egg  yolk.  Follow  directions  under  Al,  for  beating.  Add  the 
oil  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  After  the  emulsion  is  forming  add  the  oil  in 
larger  quantities.  Add  the  vinegar  slowly  after  the  oil  is  added.  Add  the 
seasoning  last. 


Text  I 


Stiffness 


Ease  of  making 


Flavor 


Comments 


Results  and  conclusions. 


290  EMULSIONS 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  in  making 
mayonnaise. 

1.  Add  the  vinegar  and  seasoning  to  the  egg  yolk.  Beat.  Chill  in  the  re- 
frigerator, then  set  mixing  bowl  in  ice,  and  add  chilled  oil  slowly.  Follow 
directions  under  Al,  for  adding  the  oil. 

2.  Heat  the  oil  and  vinegar  to   100°C.  Combine  as  in  Al. 

C.  To  see  how  much  oil  can  be  added  for  the  first  addition  to  1  egg  yolk 
and   15  cc,  of  vinegar  and  obtain  an  emulsion. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  but  add  6  or  7  teaspoons  of  oil  at  first,  then  beat  and  emulsify 
before  more  oil  is  added.  Add  the  same  amount  of  oil  for  the  second  portion; 
then  increase  the  amount  for  the  following  additions  of  oil. 

2.  If  7  teaspoons  of  oil  can  be  added  under  CI,  repeat  with  8  teaspoons. 
Repeat  CI,  adding  9  or  10  teaspoons  of  oil.  Increase  the  quantity  of  oil  for 
the  first  addition  as  long  as  an  emulsion  is  obtained. 

3.  Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  mixing  bowl  together.  Then  beat  with  a 
rotary  egg  beater.  After  beating  a  few  seconds,  let  the  mixture  stand;  then 
beat  again.   Is  an  emulsion  obtained? 

D.  To  determine  the  amount  of  oil  that  can  be  added  to  mayonnaise  with- 
out breaking  the  emulsion. 

1.  Follow  directions  under  Al,  but  add  all  the  oil  possible  to  the  mayon- 
naise. Keep  a  record  of  the  amount  of  oil  added.  Compare  the  consistency  of 
the  mayonnaise  with  that  obtained  in  other  experiments.  Determine  its  keeping 
qualities. 

2.  Repeat  Dl,  but  add  oil  until  the  emulsion  breaks.  If  oil  has  been  added 
until  the  emulsion  breaks  under  Dl,  use  it  for  this  experiment  and  repeat 
D2,  but  do  not  add  quite  so  much  oil.  Put  a  small  portion  of  the  broken 
emulsion,  about  a  tablespoon,  in  a  jelly  glass.  Label  and  cover.  Divide  the 
remaining  broken  mass  into  three  parts. 

a.  Add  part  one  to  an  egg  yolk  gradually,  beating  with  the  egg  beater 
during   the   process.   What   happens? 

b.  Repeat  D2,a,  but  add  the  second  portion  of  curdled  emulsion  gradually 
to  a  tablespoon  of  water  or  vinegar. 

c.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  water  or  vinegar  to  the  third  portion  of  broken 
emulsion.   Beat.  What  happens? 

E.  To  determine  the  kinds  of  fat  that  may  be  used  in  mayonnaise. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  but  substitute  butter  for  the  oil.  Melt  the  butter  over  hot 
water  and  keep  warm  while  adding  to  the  egg  yolk  and  seasonings. 

2.  Repeat  El,  but  use  lard,  Crisco,  or  Snowdrift. 

F.  To  determine  the  effect  of  substituting  other  emulsifying  agents  for  the 
egg  yolk  in  making  salad  dressing. 

1.  Substitute  \y'2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  paste  for  the  egg  yolk  in  the 
mayonnaise  recipe.  (Make  the  paste  by  cooking  XYi  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 
with  1  cup  of  water.)  When  the  paste  is  cool  but  not  firm,  add  the  season- 
ings and  vinegar  to  1^  tablespoons  of  the  paste  and  beat  with  rotary  egg 
beater.  Add  the  oil  slowly  at  first,  then  more  rapidly  after  the  emulsion  begins 
to  form. 

2.  Substitute  1^  tablespoons  of  gelatin  for  the  egg  yolk  in  the  mayonnaise 
recipe.  (Make  gelatin  solution  by  using  3  teaspoons  of  gelatin  to  1  cup  of 
water.)  When  the  gelatin  is  thick  but  not  firm  put  1^^  tablespoons  in  a  mixing 


EMULSIONS  291 

bowl.  Add  the  seasonings,  and  the  vinegar.  Beat.  Add  the  oil  slowly  at  first, 
then  more  rapidly. 

3.  Substitute  18  grams  of  egg  white  for  the  egg  yolk. 

4.  Substitute  18  grams  of  whole  egg  for  the  egg  yolk. 

Is  there  much  difference  in  the  method  of  combining  ingredients  for  mayon- 
naise when  egg  yolk  is  used  as  the  emulsifying  agent?  What  effect  does  the 
temperature  of  the  ingredients  have  on  the  formation  of  an  emulsion?  Did  you 
succeed  in  obtaining  an  emulsion  when  the  oil  and  all  the  other  ingredients 
were  combined  in  a  bowl  before  beating?  What  is  the  largest  quantity  of  oil 
used  for  the  first  addition  of  oil  and  a  permanent  emulsion  obtained?  How 
much  oil  did  you  succeed  in  adding  to  the  mayonnaise?  By  examining  the 
emulsions  obtained  under  the  microscope,  compare  cornstarch  paste,  gelatin, 
egg  white,  and  egg  yolk  as  emulsifying  agents  for  emulsions. 

Experiment  53. 

To  determine  the  type  of  emulsion  formed  with  different  emulsifying  agents 
and  oils  or  fats. 

Use  oil  or  fat  stained  with  Scarlet  R.  Continue  beating  the  mixture  for  a 
few  seconds  after  all  the  fat  or  oil  is  added,  even  if  at  first  it  appears  that 
an  emulsion  will  not  form.  Examine  portions  of  different  steps  under  the 
microscope. 

1.  Use  a  deep,  narrow  bowl  and  a  rotary  egg  beater.  Add  25  grams  of 
melted  butter  gradually  to  25  grams  of  egg  white. 

2.  Add  25  grams  of  melted  butter  gradually  to  25  grams  of  casein  solution. 
Make  the  casein  solution  by  adding  some  powdered  casein  to  water  and  stir 
to  dissolve  as  much  as  possible.  After  it  settles  use  the  clear  liquid.  The  experi- 
ment may  be  repeated  using  milk. 

3.  Repeat  52,1,  but  use  oil  instead  of  butter. 

4.  Repeat  52,1,  but  use  lard,  Crisco,  or  Snowdrift  instead  of  butter. 

5.  Repeat  52,2,  but  use  oil  instead  of  butter. 

6.  Repeat  52,2,  but  use  lard  or  Crisco  instead  of  butter. 

Experiment  54. 

A.  To  determine  the  proportion  of  oil  and  liquid  that  separates  most  slowly 
in   French   dressing. 

Mustard  ^4.  teaspoon  about      0.8  gram 

Paprika  l4  teaspoon  1     gram 

Salt  ]4.  teaspoon  2     grams 

Powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon 

Add  the  seasoning  to  the  vinegar  and  mix.  Use  a  rotary  t^%,  beater  or  a 
mayonnaise  mixer.  A  100-cc.  graduate  is  excellent  to  weigh  the  oil  in.  The 
duplicate  portions  with  lemon  juice  can  be  measured  by  filling  to  the  same 
height  in  the  graduate.  The  oil  is  easily  poured  from  the  graduate.  Add  the 
oil  gradually  to  the  vinegar  and  seasonings.  A  duplicate  series  may  be  made 
and  the  ingredients  shaken  in  a  flask. 

1.  Use  15  grams  of  vinegar  and  82  grams  of  oil. 

2.  Use  20  grams  of  vinegar  and  77  grams  of  oil. 

3.  Use  25  grams  of  vinegar  and  72  grams  of  oil. 


\ 


292  EMULSIONS 

4.  Use  30  grams  of  vinegar  and  67  grams  of  oil. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  substituting  lemon  juice  for  the  vinegar. 
Repeat  54A,  substituting  lemon  juice  for  the  vinegar. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  increasing  the  quantity  of  paprika. 

Use  the  proportion  of  oil  and  vinegar  found  best  under  A.  Different  brands 
of  paprika  may  be  used  as  they  may  vary  in  fineness.  The  seasonings  may 
all  be  put  in  a  mortar  and  ground  before  using. 

1.  Use  1  teaspoon   (2  grams)   of  paprika. 

2.  Use  \y2  teaspoons   (3  grams)  of  paprika. 

3.  Use  1  teaspoon  (2  grams)  of  paprika  and  1  teaspoon  (about  1  gram) 
of  mustard. 


CHAPTER  IX 
MILK  AND  CHEESE 

In  food  preparation,  milk  is  used  in  many  ways  and  combined  with  many 
kinds  of  foods.  All  the  different  types  of  cheese  are  made  from  it.  Meat, 
vegetables,  and  cereals  may  be  cooked  in  it.  It  is  used  as  a  basis  for  many 
sauces.  Such  sauces  may  be  combined  with  eggs,  with  meats,  or  with 
vegetables;  it  is  used  in  puddings  and  in  frozen  desserts;  it  is  used  for 
soups  and  for  drinks  like  cocoa  and  coffee;  it  is  combined  with  cereals; 
it  is  used  in  combination  with  many  foods,  as  in  custards,  in  cakes,  and 
in  quick  breads. 

Milk  from  different  animals  is  used  for  food,  but  in  this  country  unless 
the  source  of  the  milk  is  mentioned  it  is  understood  to  be  cow's  milk. 

Composition  of  Milk 

Milk  from  different  animals  varies  somewhat  in  the  proportion  of  the 
different  constituents.  All  milk  contains  a  high  proportion  of  water,  cow's 
milk  averaging  about  87  per  cent.  The  milk  from  different  breeds  of  cattle 
varies  considerably  in  composition.  The  milk  of  individual  cows  of  the 
same  breed  also  varies  in  the  proportion  of  the  different  constituents.  This 
may  be  partly  due  to  environment,  partly  to  inheritance,  and  partly  to 
individuality.  Milk  may  vary  particularly  in  fat  content  from  one  milking 
to  the  next.  The  percentage  of  fat  increases  during  the  milking  period ;  that 
is,  the  first  milk  obtained  is  not  so  rich  in  fat  as  the  last  portions  of  milk. 

The  fat  varies  for  different  breeds  from  about  3.5  per  cent  for  Holstein 
to  about  5  per  cent  for  Guernsey  and  Jersey. 

The  protein  varies  from  about  3.3  per  cent  for  Holstein  to  4.0  per  cent 
for  Guernsey  and  Jersey.  It  parallels  the  fat  content  somewhat,  being 
highest  in  the  breeds  having  a  high  fat  content  and  lowest  in  those  having 
a  low  fat  content. 

The  lactose  does  not  vary  so  much  with  the  different  breeds  as  the  fat 
and  protein.  The  lactose  content  is  from  about  4.65  to  5  per  cent. 

The  ash  varies  from  about  0.68  to  0.75  for  the  different  breeds. 

Constituents  o£  Milk 

Chemical  and  Physical  Properties 

The  constituents  of  milk  that  are  most  important  in  food  preparation 
are  enzymes,  vitamins,  pigments,  salts,  sugar,  fat,  and  proteins. 

293 


294  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

Enzymes.  The  enzymes  of  cow's  milk  are  reported  as  follows  by 
Rogers;  proteinases,  lactase,  diastase,  lipase,  salolase,  catalase,  peroxidase, 
and  aldehydrase.  Rogers  states  that  the  proteolytic  enzyme,  galactase,  brings 
about  slow  decomposition  of  milk  proteins  into  peptones,  amino  acids,  and 
ammonia. 

Vitamins.  All  the  vitamins  recognized  at  the  present  time  are  contained 
in  milk.  Some  are  present  in  comparatively  large  and  others  in  smaller 
amounts. 

Pigments.  The  appearance  of  milk  is  white.  This  is  due  to  light  rays 
reflected  by  the  colloidally  dispersed  constituents  of  the  milk,  the  calcium 
caseinate,  and  calcium  phosphate. 

Milk  contains  two  classes  of  yellow  or  orange  pigments.  The  w^ater- 
soluble  pigment,  which  imparts  a  yellow  color  with  a  green  fluorescence 
to  the  whey  of  milk,  was  formerly  called  lactochrome.  A  name  recently 
suggested  for  this  pigment  is  lactoflavin.  It  is  regarded  as  one  flavin  of  a 
specific  group,  collectively  to  be  called  lyochromes.  It  is  possible  that  lacto- 
flavin is  composed  of  more  than  one  pigment.  Rogers  says  "lactoflavin 
forms  compounds  with  saccharides,  proteins,  and  purines  (uric  acid).  These 
compounds  possibly  either  occur  naturally  in  milk  or  readily  form  during 
isolations,  thus  accounting  for  the  several  lactoflavins  isolated  from  milk." 
It  is  probable  that  the  pigment  lactoflavin  is  one  of  the  five  fractions  of 
vitamin  G  (Bo).  Milk  is  relatively  rich  in  this  vitamin. 

A  fat-soluble  pigment,  carotene,  found  in  the  fat  gives  the  milk  a  more 
or  less  yellow  tinge,  which  is  more  pronounced  as  the  fat  particles  become 
more  concentrated  and  form  cream.  The  group  of  pigments  called  caroti- 
noids,  which  include  carotene,  xanthophyll,  and  related  pigments,  has  been 
described  in  the  chapter  on  fruits  and  vegetables.  The  chief  pigment  of 
butter  fat  is  the  carotene,  but  little  xanthophyll  being  found.  The  depth  of 
color  depends  upon  the  amount  of  pigment  present.  The  color  of  carotene  in 
solution  varies  from  yellow  to  orange  and  to  a  deep  red-orange  as  the 
concentration  increases.  The  amount  of  carotene  found  in  the  butter  fat 
depends  upon  the  extent  of  carotene  in  the  food  of  the  cow.  Green  grasses, 
hay  cured  to  retain  its  green  color,  green  corn,  and  carrots  are  rich  in 
carotene.  The  carotene  content  of  milk  fat  is  less  rich  during  the  winter 
months,  if  the  food  of  the  cow  is  poor  in  carotene  during  this  period.  Only 
in  cow's  milk  is  the  fat  extensively  pigmented.  With  the  exception  of 
the  fat  of  human  milk,  which  is  often  pigmented,  the  fat  of  the  milk  of 
other  animals  is  either  devoid  of  or  contains  little  pigment. 

Salts.  Milk  contains  salts  of  potassium,  sodium,  magnesium,  calcium, 
phosphates,  chlorides,  and  citrates.  Traces  of  sulfates  and  carbonates  are 
found.  Iron  is  present  in  small  amount.  Iodides  are  also  found  in  small 
amounts,  the  amount  being  greater  in  some  localities  than  in  others.  Iodides 
may  be  easily  transmitted  from  the  feed  to  the  milk.  Supplee  and  Bellis 
have  found  copper  to  average  about  0.52  part  per  million  in  freshly  drawn 
milk.  Brickner  has  reported  that  milk  contains  3.6  to  5.6  parts  of  zinc  per 


FAT  295 

million  parts  of  milk.  Manganese  in  normal  milk  averages  0.02^  to  0.06 
parts  per  million.  The  greater  part  of  the  sulfur  is  found  in  the  milk  pro- 
teins. Barger  and  Coyne  state  that  part  of  the  sulfur  in  milk  is  found  in 
the  amino  acids  methionine  and  cystine  of  the  proteins,  but  that  all  of  the 
sulfur  is  not  accounted  for. 

The  salts  of  milk  are  found  in  milk  in  solution,  in  the  colloidal  state, 
and  in  combination  with  the  proteins.  The  exact  chemical  combinations 
of  the  different  salts  in  the  milk  are  not  fully  determined.  For  this  reason 
different  authorities  report  different  salt  combinations.  Thus  formulas 
imply  definite  combination,  whereas  there  is  a  complex  salt  equilibrium  in 
milk,  which  has  not  been  satisfactorily  worked  out.  The  citrates,  the  com- 
binations of  which  may  be  trisodium  and  tripotassium  citrate,  tricalcium 
and  trimagnesium  citrate,  are  probably  entirely  in  solution.  The  possible 
chlorides  of  potassium,  sodium,  and  calcium  are  also  in  solution.  Some 
authorities  believe  that  the  phosphates  are  present  chiefly  as  dicalcium 
phosphate,  CaHP04;  others  believe  that  tricalcium  phosphate,  Ca3(P04)2, 
is  the  principal  phosphate  combination.  The  phosphates  are  partly  in  solu- 
tion, with  the  greater  portion  in  colloidal  dispersion.  When  the  particles 
of  dicalcium  phosphate  are  heated  they  become  aggregated  and  partially 
precipitated. 

Calcium  and  magnesium  are  in  combination  with  the  casein  to  form 
calcium  and  magnesium  caseinates.  Zoller  states  that  there  may  be  traces 
of  sodium  and  potassium  caseinates. 

Lactose.  The  solubility  of  lactose  and  its  properties  may  be  found  in 
the  chapter  on  sugar.  It  is  caramelized  by  heat  at  rather  low  temperatures. 

Fat.  Butter  fat  is  composed  of  glycerol  and  fatty  acids.  Fatty  acids  of 
both  the  saturated  and  unsaturated  series  are  present.  The  relative  per- 
centage of  the  unsaturated  fatty  acids  varies  with  the  feed,  averaging 
higher  in  summer  than  in  winter.  Dean  and  Hilditch  state  that  the  oleic 
and  linoleic  acids  increase  by  4  per  cent  (mols),  with  a  parallel  diminution 
in  butyric  and  stearic  acids  when  cows  return  to  pasture.  They  also  report 
that  with  increased  age  of  the  cow  the  unsaturated  acids  increase  at  the 
expense  of  palmitic  acid,  which  was  lowered  from  29  to  22-23  per  cent  by 
weight  of  the  total  fat  in  the  four  years  of  observations  made  on  milk  from 
the  same  group  of  cows.  The  saturated  fatty  acids  are  butyric,  caproic, 
caprylic,  capric,  lauric,  myristic,  plamitic,  and  stearic.  Arachadonic  acid  has 
been  reported  absent  by  some  investigators.  Butter  fat  contains  a  higher 
proportion  of  the  first-named  saturated  acids  than  other  food  fats.  The 
first  ones  in  the  series  are  quite  volatile  with  steam,  the  volatility  decreasing 
with  increase  in  molecular  weight  of  the  acid.  Hence,  when  butter  is  heated 
for  several  minutes,  the  percentage  of  the  lower  saturated  fatty  acids  may 
be  decreased.  The  unsaturated  fatty  acids  include  oleic,  linoleic,  and 
arachidic. 

Formerly  it  was  thought  that  the  particular  flavor  of  butter  was  due 
to  the  greater  proportion  of  the  lower  saturated  fatty  acids,  but  now  it  is 


\ 


296  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

known  that  butters  with  satisfactory  flavor  and  aroma  (Michaelian, 
Farmer,  and  Hammer)  contain  considerable  quantities  of  acetylmethyl- 
carbinol  plus  diacetyl.  The  acetylmethylcarbinol  in  a  pure  condition  is  odor- 
less, but  by  bacterial  action  it  is  changed  to  diacetyl,  which  in  concentra- 
tions of  0.0002  to  0.0004  per  cent  in  or  added  to  neutral  butter  gives  a 
characteristic  aroma. 

Size  of  fat  globules.  The  fat  in  milk  is  found  in  small  globules.  These 
fat  globules  which  are  microscopic  in  size  are  suspended  in  the  milk.  They 
vary  in  size  from  0.10/*  to  22.0/x.  Most  of  the  globules  are  less  than  lOfx 
and  average  about  3fx  in  diameter.  The  size  of  the  fat  globules  varies 
(1)  with  different  breeds,  being  larger  in  milk  from  Jersey  and  Guernsey 
than  in  milk  from  other  breeds,  (2)  with  the  lactation  period,  decreasing 
in  size  with  length  of  the  lactation  period,  and  (3)  with  feed.  Dry  feed 
tends  to  decrease  the  size  of  the  globules,  succulent  feed  to  increase  their 
size. 

Ci'eaming.  The  specific  gravity  of  the  fat  globules  is  less  than  that  of 
the  fluid  of  the  milk.  Hence  there  is  a  tendency  for  them  to  rise  to  the 
surface  to  form  a  cream  layer.  The  extent  of  creaming  depends  upon  several 
factors,  such  as  the  size  of  the  fat  globules,  temperature  of  the  milk,  acidity, 
physical  state  of  the  fat,  etc.  Creaming  occurs  more  rapidly  in  milk  when 
the  fat  globules  are  quite  large  than  when  they  are  smaller.  In  rising  to 
the  top  of  the  milk  the  globules  of  fat  clump  together,  and  this  clumping 
increases  the  tendency  for  them  to  rise  to  the  surface  of  the  milk.  As  the 
larger  clumps  rise  they  may  carry  many  of  the  smaller  globules  to  the 
surface.  Therefore,  clumping  not  only  aids  the  completeness  of  creaming 
but  also  the  rate,  for  the  rate  is  more  rapid  when  the  fat  particles  clump 
quickly.  Rogers  states  that  the  factors  affecting  clumping  are  ''temperature, 
the  acidity,  the  fat  content  and  its  degree  of  dispersion,  the  degree  of 
agitation,  and  the  fluidity  of  the  system.  The  fat  content,  the  degree  of 
agitation  and  the  fluidity  of  the  system  determine  the  probability  of  col- 
lisions of  the  globules."  The  tendency  of  the  fat  globules  to  clump  is 
greatest  when  the  milk  is  cooled  rapidly  to  7°  to  8°C.,  but  if  the  fat 
globules  become  solid  at  the  low  temperature  before  creaming  is  allowed  to 
take  place  the  rate  of  creaming  is  retarded.  The  temperature  that  favors 
clumping  is  also  best  for  whipping  the  cream.  Most  cream  is  separated 
from  the  milk  by  mechanical  means.  The  fat  particles  left  in  the  milk 
after  separating  the  cream  are  those  less  than  1/x  and  those  between  1  and 
2/A  in  diameter. 

Butter.  The  fat  globules  in  cow's  milk  are  suspended  in  the  milk  and 
thus  do  not  form  a  permanent  emulsion,  though  they  may  be  so  reduced 
in  size  by  homogenization  that  they  form  a  permanent  emulsion.  Of  the 
dififerent  theories  formulated  for  explaining  the  manner  in  which  emulsions 
are  stabilized  the  adsorption  film  theory  is  usually  connected  with  milk. 
Substances  that  lower  surface  tension  tend  to  collect  at  the  interface  be- 
tween two  non-miscible  systems.  Proteins  tend  to  lower  the  surface  tension, 


FAT  297 

hence  tend  to  collect  at  the  interface.  The  layer  or  film  around  the  fat 
globules  probably  consists  of  adsorbed  calcium  caseinate,  with  some  lactal- 
bumin,  globulin,  and  calcium  phosphate.  This  membrane  may  be  weakened 
or  broken  in  various  ways.  When  milk  is  heated  slowly,  the  membrane 
surrounding  some  of  the  fat  globules  may  be  broken  and  a  number  of 
globules  may  coalesce.  Sometimes  milk  that  has  been  heated  and  then 
cooled  has  a  more  oily  appearance  due  to  this  coalescing  of  the  fat  globules. 
The  membrane  surrounding  the  fat  particles  may  be  broken  by  mechanical 
agitation.  Formation  of  butter  in  churning  is  brought  about  in  this  manner. 

There  are  two  theories  regarding  butter  formation.  One  is  that  the 
emulsion  is  reversed  from  the  type  found  in  the  milk  and  that  the  butter 
is  a  water-in-fat  emulsion.  The  other  view  is  that  butter  is  formed  by 
packing  the  fat  globules  into  a  compact  mass,  and  that  water  and  air 
are  enmeshed  during  this  process.  Temperature  and  the  formation  of  a 
foam  are  both  important  in  churning.  At  a  temperature  above  65 °C.  there 
is  no  aggregation  of  fat  particles.  Below  65°  the  tendency  to  clump  in- 
creases and  is  at  a  maximum  at  7°  to  8°C.  A  favorable  temperature  for 
butter  formation  is  below  24°  and  above  10°C.  At  temperatures  below 
4°C.  the  fat  globules  do  not  adhere  to  each  other  and  aggregation  does 
not  take  place.  At  temperatures  above  the  melting  point  of  butter,  no 
butter  is  formed. 

The  fat  particles  tend  to  clump  at  the  liquid/air  interface,  so  that  air 
beaten  in  during  the  churning  process  accelerates  clumping  of  the  fat. 

Butter  may  be  churned  from  sweet  or  sour  cream.  The  flavor  of  butter 
from  the  sweet  cream  is  milder  and  different  from  that  of  the  sour-cream 
butter.  Many  housekeepers  prefer  the  sweet-cream  butter  for  table  use  and 
the  sour-cream  butter  for  cooking. 

The  adsorbed  films  surrounding  the  fat  globules  may  also  be  destroyed 
by  the  addition  of  acid  or  alkali.  It  is  by  these  methods  that  the  fat  is 
set  free  for  a  quantitative  determination.  In  the  Babcock.test,  acid  is  used 
for  liberating  the  fat  globules ;  in  the  Hoyberg  test  alkali  is  used.  The  Bab- 
cock,  or  some  modification  of  it,  is  the  one  usually  employed  in  estimating 
the  fat  content  of  milk  and  cream. 

Protein.  The  chief  proteins  found  in  milk  in  order  of  their  decreasing 
amounts  are  casein,  lactalbumin,  and  lactoglobulin. 

Casein.  Casein  belongs  to  the  group  of  phosphoproteins.  The  form  in 
which  the  phosphorus  exists  in  the  casein  is  not  definitely  known,  but  it  is 
believed  to  be  present  in  the  form  of  combined  phosphoric  acid.  Casein 
forms  about  3  per  cent  of  cow's  milk. 

At  its  isoelectric  point,  which  is  pH  4.6,  casein  is  nearly  insoluble  in 
water.  Casein  is  amphoteric  and  forms  salts  with  acids  and  alkalies.  Fresh 
milk  has  a  reaction  of  about  pH  6.6,  so  that  the  casein  is  present  in  the 
milk  as  salts  of  bases  and  is  found  as  calcium  and  magnesium  caseinates. 
All  the  alkali  caseinates  are  soluble  in  water,  though  the  salts  of  the 
alkaline  earths  are  less  soluble  than  the  alkali  ones.  Loeb  states  that  below 


298  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

/>H  4.6  the  casein  chloride,  casein  acetate,  and  casein  lactate  are  very 
soluble  in  water,  but  casein  sulfate  and  casein  oxalate  are  difficultly  soluble. 

According  to  Zoller,  pure  casein  when  heated  in  water  begins  to  imbibe 
water  at  80°  to  90 °C.  and  becomes  plastic.  In  this  form  it  can  be  molded 
and  shaped.  Upon  cooling  it  becomes  very  hard. 

Casein  can  be  precipitated  from  milk  by  bringing  the  milk  to  the  isoelec- 
tric point  of  casein.  Coagulation  of  casein  will  be  considered  later. 

Lactalbumi?!.  The  proportion  of  lactalbumin  in  milk  is  much  lower  than 
that  of  casein.  It  forms  about  0.50  per  cent  of  cow's  milk.  Its  isoelectric 
point  is  /)H  4.55.  Since  the  reaction  of  fresh  milk  is  about  /)H  6.6,  it  is  on 
the  alkaline  side  of  the  isoelectric  point  of  lactalbumin.  Thus  is  it  possible 
that  the  lactalbumin  is  found  combined  as  salts  of  bases,  such  as  calcium 
and  magnesium  albuminates.  Osborne  and  Wakeman  think  it  is  uncom- 
bined.  Lactalbumin  is  soluble  in  water,  and  is  coagulated  by  heating  in 
solution  to  a  temperature  of  about  70°C.  Coagulation  may  not  be  complete 
at  this  temperature.  Palmer  states  that  the  lactalbumin  is  more  highly  dis- 
persed than  the  other  colloidal  constituents  of  the  milk. 

LactoglohuUn.  Lactoglobulin  occurs  in  milk  in  very  small  quantities, 
about  0.05  per  cent  of  cow's  milk.  Lactoglobulin  is  insoluble  in  distilled 
water,  but  it  is  soluble  in  dilute  solutions  of  strong  bases  or  acids,  and 
in  dilute  salt  solutions.  It  is  coagulable  by  heat. 

Homogenization  of  Milk 

Globules  of  butter  fat  are  suspended  in  the  milk.  They  are  surrounded 
by  films  of  adsorbed  caseinates,  albuminates,  and  globulinates.  The  fat 
globules  of  milk  are  too  large  to  form  a  permanent  emulsion,  so  they  grad- 
ually rise  to  the  top  of  the  milk  in  the  form  of  cream.  If  the  milk  or  cream 
is  put  through  a  machine  called  a  homogenizer,  the  fat  globules  are  reduced 
in  size.  This  is  accomplished  by  using  pressure  and  forcing  the  milk  or 
cream  through  small  openings.  Homogenized  milk  or  cream  may  form  a 
stable  emulsion  if  the  fat  globules  are  reduced  enough  in  size.  Hence,  when 
the  fat  is  broken  into  fine  enough  globules  the  cream  will  not  rise  to  the 
top  of  the  homogenized  milk. 

The  size  of  the  fat  globules  after  homogenization  depends  upon  the 
temperature  of  the  milk  during  homogenization  and  the  pressure  used. 
With  increase  in  temperature  the  degree  of  dispersion  increases  rapidly 
from  40°  to  65°C.,  so  that  the  smallest  fat  particles  are  obtained  at  65°. 
Ordinarily  temperatures  above  65°  are  not  used  for  homogenization.  The 
size  of  the  fat  particles  also  decreases  with  increased  pressure. 

Whipped  cream  is  stabilized  by  proteins.  The  fat  globules  in  cream 
are  surrounded  by  films  of  protein  substances.  Homogenized  cream  also 
has  the  film  of  adsorbed  proteins  around  the  fat  particles.  Clayton  states 
the  fat  particles  in  homogenized  cream  may  be  1000  times  greater  in 
number  than  before  homogenization.  Since  the  number  of  fat  particles  is 


WHIPPING  CREAM  299 

increased,  the  amount  of  globulinates,  caseinates,  and  albuminates  used  in 
forming  films  is  very  much  greater,  for  the  surface  area  of  the  fat  globules 
has  increased  enormously. 

Whipped  cream  is  both  an  emulsion  and  a  foam.  The  fat  particles  must 
be  surrounded  by  a  film  of  protein  in  order  to  be  stabilized,  and  the  air 
globules  must  be  surrounded  by  a  film  of  protein  to  stabilize  them.  In 
homogenized  cream  most  of  the  protein  is  used  in  surrounding  the  fat 
globules,  on  account  of  the  increased  surface  area  of  the  smaller  and 
increased  number  of  fat  globules,  and  thus  there  is  not  enough  left  to  sur- 
round the  air  bubbles.  Hence,  homogenized  cream  seldom  whips  unless 
protein  is  added  for  film  forming. 

Factors  that  affect  the  whipping  quality  of  cream.  In  addition 
to  the  protein  or  film  forming  in  whipping  cream,  the  fat  content,  the  size 
of  the  fat  particles,  the  temperature  of  whipping,  and  the  viscosity  are 
important  factors.  Dahlberg  and  Hening  have  studied  the  relation  of 
viscosity,  surface  tension,  and  whipping  properties  of  milk  and  cream.  They 
have  found  that  increased  viscosity  increases  the  whipping  properties  of 
cream,  but  the  lowering  of  the  surface  tension  does  not  improve  the 
whipping  qualities.  They  have  reported  two  changes  taking  place  during 
whipping.  The  incorporation  of  air  depends  upon  the  milk  proteins  form- 
ing the  film  around  the  air  globules,  and  the  rigidity  or  stiffness  of  the 
whipped  cream  depends  upon  the  clumping  together  of  the  fat  particles. 
The  best  whipping  cream  did  not  give  as  large  a  volume  as  some  other 
creams,  but  it  had  less  liquid  drain  out  of  it  after  whipping. 

Cream  whips  better  with  an  increasing  fat  content  up  to  35  per  cent. 
The  cream  with  the  higher  fat  content  gives  more  particles  for  clumping 
and  also  increases  the  viscosity  of  the  cream. 

As  the  fat  particles  clump  at  the  liquid/air  interface,  or  within  the 
liquid,  the  increased  rigidity  they  give  the  foam  permits  inclusion  of  more 
air  bubbles  and  extension  of  the  films  with  the  result  that  the  dryness  of 
the  foam  is  increased.  See  Fig.  31.  Larger  fat  particles  clump  more  readily 
and  thus  form  the  structural  support  offered  by  the  fat  more  easily.  This 
offers  an  explanation  of  why  cream  from  milk  containing  larger  fat  parti- 
cles, milk  from  Jersey  and  Guernsey  breeds,  whips  more  quickly  than 
cream  containing  smaller  fat  particles,  milk  from  other  breeds. 

Aging  improves  the  whipping  qualities  of  cream.  The  viscosity  increases 
with  aging.  As  a  general  rule,  treatment  that  increases  the  viscosity  increases 
the  whipping  properties.  Pasteurization  tends  to  reduce  the  whipping 
quality  of  cream. 

Babcock  has  found  that  the  best  whipping  is  obtained  at  a  temperature 
of  45  °F.  or  lower.  At  this  temperature  agitation  favors  the  clumping 
together  of  the  fat  particles.  At  high  temperatures,  both  the  higher  tem- 
perature and  the  agitation  increase  the  dispersion  of  the  fat.  Above  50°F. 
the  decrease  in  stiffness  of  whipped  cream  is  in  direct  ratio  to  increase  in 
temperature,  so  that  30-per  cent  cream  will  not  whip  at  72°F. 


300 


MILK  AND  CHEESE 


Babcock  found  acidity  up  to  0.3  per  cent,  at  which  sour  taste  is  evident, 
had  no  effect  on  whipping  quality.  If  acid  was  added  in  excess  of  0.3  per 
cent,  whipping  quality  improved,  whether  added  to  fresh  or  aged  cream, 
when  the  amount  added  began  to  curdle  the  cream. 

The  addition  of  sugar  to  cream  either  before  or  after  whipping  was 
found  by  Babcock  to  decrease  the  stiffness  of  the  cream.  For  each  2  tea- 
spoons added  to  100  cc.  (about  ]/\  cup)  the  stiffness  decreased  four  points 
on  the  stiffness  scale.  Adding  the  sugar  before  whipping  the  cream 
decreased  the  volume  obtained  and  increased  the  whipping  time. 

The  denaturation  or  coagulation  of  the  protein  film  at  the  air/cream 
interface,    increases   the   stiffness   of    the    whipped    cream.    Since    colloidal 


Fig,   31. — Diagram   of   a   cross  section  through   whipped   cream.   Fat  globules   of 
the  cream  are  shown  as  small  black  spots.  Magnification  about  180    (Rahn). 

reactions  require  time,  it  is  a  better  practise  to  add  sugar  to  whipped  cream 
after,  rather  than  before  or  during  the  whipping  process.  By  this  procedure 
denaturation  is  more  complete,  which  offers  an  explanation  of  why  the 
volume  of  the  cream  is  less  affected  by  the  addition  of  the  sugar  last.  The 
addition  of  sugar  lessens  the  stiffness  and  decreases  the  volume  of  the 
whipped  cream  because  it  either  prevents  denaturation  and/or  peptizes 
the  protein  film. 

Reaction  of  Milk 

Freshly  secreted  milk  is  nearly  neutral  to  litmus.  The  reaction  varies 
slightly  but  has  an  approximate  pYi  of  6.6.  The  freshly  secreted  milk  con- 
tains carbon  dioxide.  The  amount  of  this  gas  in  the  milk  decreases  during 
milking  and  the  subsequent  handling  of  the  milk,  while  the  percentage  of 
oxygen  and  nitrogen  increase.  For  this  reason  the  titratable  acidity  decreases 
for  a  time  in  milk  exposed  to  the  air.  Confined  milk  does  not  show  as  great 


RENNET  COAGULATION  301 

a  decrease  in  titratable  acidity  as  the  exposed  milk,  for  the  percentage  of 
carbon  dioxide  lost  is  smaller. 

Effect  of  heating  milk  on  acidity.  When  milk  is  heated  at  the  boil- 
ing point  or  at  temperatures  above  or  near  the  boiling  point  the  titratable 
acidity  at  first  decreases  owing  to  the  loss  of  carbon  dioxide,  and  then 
increases.  Whittier  and  Benton  report  that  the  hydrogen-ion  concentra- 
tion increases  continuously.  They  find  the  hydrogen-ion  increase  and  the 
later  increase  in  titratable  acidity  is  due  to  the  formation  of  acids  from 
constituents  of  the  milk.  The  amount  of  acid  produced  depends  upon  the 
time  and  temperature  of  heating,  a  greater  amount  of  acid  being  produced 
with  a  longer  heating  period  and  with  higher  temperatures.  From  their 
experiments  they  conclude  that  the  acid  is  produced  from  the  lactose  of  the 
milk.  They  have  shown  that,  the  greater  the  concentration  of  lactose  pres- 
ent, the  greater  the  amount  of  acid  formed  at  a  definite  temperature  and 
for  a  definite  time. 

Coagulation  of  Milk 

Under  certain  conditions,  the  addition  of  alcohol  as  well  as  the  appli- 
cation of  heat  may  cause  coagulation  of  milk.  Milk  may  be  coagulated  by 
the  addition  of  rennin  or  by  bringing  the  acidity  oi  the  milk  to  the  isoelec- 
tric point  of  the  casein.  When  milk  is  combined  with  other  foods,  the  salt 
content  of  the  food  or  the  tannin  content  of  the  food  may  be  factors  that 
aid  coagulation. 

Alcohol  coagulation.  The  addition  of  70  per  cent  alcohol  to  milk  may 
cause  coagulation.  As  the  pH  of  the  milk  decreases,  it  becomes  susceptible 
to  alcohol  precipitation,  though  this  varies  with  different  milks.  Usually 
the  milk  is  precipitated  by  alcohol  while  it  is  still  stable  to  heat  and 
sterilizing  temperatures.  Some  freshly  secreted  milk  is  coagulated  by 
alcohol,  but  this  milk  is  usually  abnormal  in  some  way.  About  2  cc.  of 
alcohol  are  added  to  an  equal  quantity  of  milk  for  the  test.  Casein  is 
precipitated  by  alcohol  as  calcium  caseinate,  calcium  is  not  released  as  by 
acid  coagulation. 

Rennet  coagulation.  Milk  may  be  coagulated  by  the  addition  of 
rennet.  Rennet  is  an  extract  that  is  usually  obtained  from  the  inner  lining 
of  the  stomachs  of  calves  and  lambs.  The  rennet  contains  an  enzyme  called 
rennase  or  rennin. 

The  clotting  of  the  milk  is  generally  believed  to  be  the  direct  action  of 
the  rennin  on  the  casein.  But  the  manner  in  which  these  changes  is  pro- 
duced is  not  fully  understood.  A  very  small  amount  of  rennin  is  capable 
of  coagulating  a  large  amount  of  milk.  At  favorable  or  optimum  hydrogen- 
ion  concentrations  for  clotting,  1  part  of  the  fairly  pure  enzyme  prepara- 
tion is  able  to  coagulate  3,000,000  or  more  parts  of  milk. 

Mechanism  of  clotting.  It  is  usually  stated  that  the  casein  is  changed  to 
paracasein  by  the  action  of  the  rennin.  It  is  also  often  stated  that  the 


302  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

clotting  is  brought  about  in  two  steps,  the  first  being  the  action  of  rennin 
on  the  casein  and  the  second  the  precipitation  of  the  changed  casein.  Rogers 
reviews  the  many  theories  of  rennin  coagulation.  Some  investigators  claim 
the  changes  are  purely  chemical;  others  maintain  the  rennin  affects  only 
the  physical  state  of  the  calcium  caseinate.  However,  if  the  change  can  be 
explained  on  the  basis  of  colloid  chemistry,  it  is  probable  that  absorption 
and  the  electric  charge  play  an  important  role  in  the  process.  Rogers  states 
that  Hammarsten  regards  casein  in  milk  as  a  calcium  caseinate-calcium 
phosphate  complex.  '*As  a  matter  of  fact  the  compound  called  calcium 
caseinate  is  most  probably  a  true  calcium  phosphocaseinate,  if,  as  seems 
likely,  the  second  and  third  hydrogens  of  the  orthophosphoric  acid  esterfied 
with  certain  of  the  amino  acids  in  the  casein  molecule  react  with  calcium. 
The  correct  conception  of  the  term  'calcium  phosphocaseinate,'  as  it  is 
now  commonly  employed,  is  that  of  a  colloidal  calcium  phosphate  (or 
phosphates)  sol  protected  by  a  calcium  caseinate  (or  caseinates)  sol  in  a 
manner  as  yet  imperfectly  understood."  The  stabilization  of  sols  is  best 
explained  by  the  theory  of  Helmholtz,  i.e.,  each  colloidal  particle  is  sur- 
rounded by  an  electrical  double  layer.  ''In  the  case  of  negatively  charged 
sols,  in  which  class  calcium  caseinate  and  calcium  paracaseinate  evidently 
fall,  the  outer  layer  consists  of  hydrogen  ions.  If  these  are  replaced  by  a 
sufficient  number  of  positively  charged  ions  of  higher  charge,  e.g.,  calcium 
ions  carrying  two  positive  charges" ;  or,  in  other  words,  if  these  ions  are 
more  strongly  adsorbed  than  the  hydrogen  ions,  the  colloid  particle  will 
readily  precipitate,  the  rate  of  clotting  being  determined  by  the  rate  of 
replacement. 

Richardson  and  Palmer  state  that  rennin  itself  may  reduce  the  charge 
of  the  calcium  caseinate  micelle  and  thus  reduce  the  stability  of  the  casein 
sol.  They  found  indications  that  the  isoelectric  point  of  rennin  is  about  pH 
6.9  to  7.0.  Above  this  pH  the  rennin  is  negatively  charged  and  below  pH 
6.9  it  is  positively  charged.  They  found  that  rennin  lowered  the  electro- 
phoretic  velocity  of  calcium  caseinate  and  calcium  phosphocaseinate  micelles 
when  the  casein  sol  was  negatively  charged  and  the  rennin  was  positively 
charged,  but  not  when  the  rennin  was  negatively  charged  (above  its  iso- 
electric point,  pK  6.9  to  7.0).  From  this  evidence  and  from  the  fact  that 
paracaseinate  micelles  are  not  affected  by  rennin,  which  agrees  with  the 
fact  that  casein  once  coagulated  by  rennin  has  lost  its  sensitiveness  to  this 
enzyme,  they  suggest  that  rennin  acts  by  sensitizing  the  casein  by  a  pre- 
liminary reduction  of  the  electric  charge  on  the  casein  micelles. 

During  the  clotting  of  the  milk,  aside  from  the  consistency  of  the  milk, 
there  is  little  change  in  its  physical  properties.  The  hydrogen-ion  concen- 
tration does  not  change  during  the  clotting  process. 

Factors  affecting  action  of  rennin.  Several  factors  influence  the 
activity  of  the  rennin  in  bringing  about  coagulation.  These  may  be  listed 
as  follows:  (1)  temperature  for  rennin  action;  (2)  heating  the  milk  before 
the  addition  of  rennin;  (3)  hydrogen-ion  concentration;  (4)  concentration 


FACTORS  AFFECTING  ACTION  OF  RENNIN        303 

of  casein,  calcium,  and  phosphate  ion;  (5)  character  of  cations  used  for 
coagulation. 

Temperature  for  rennin  action.  The  optimum  coagulation  by  calf  rennin 
is  about  40°  to  42°C.  Below  this  temperature  coagulation  is  less  rapid 
and  no  clotting  occurs  below  10°  to  15°C.  Also  no  clotting  occurs  above 
60°  to  65  °C.  The  clot  is  softer  at  low  temperatures  and  tougher  and 
stringy  at  high  temperatures.  By  optimum  is  meant  the  temperature  at 
which  coagulation  takes  place  most  rapidly  for  a  definite  concentration  of 
rennin  and  milk. 

Effect  of  previously  boiling  the  milk  upon  rennin  coagulation.  If  milk 
is  boiled  and  then  cooled  before  the  rennin  is  added,  the  rate  of  coagulation 
is  retarded  and  a  much  softer,  more  flocculent  clot  is  obtained.  Pasteuriza- 
tion also  affects  the  rate  of  coagulation  of  the  milk  and  the  type  of  clot 
formed  by  rennin  but  not  to  the  extent  that  boiling  does. 

Richardson  and  Palmer  found  by  electrokinetic  evidence  that  heat  in- 
creased the  electric  charge  on  the  casein  micelles  or  the  cataphoretic  velocity 
of  the  casein  solution.  The  fact  that  rennin  does  not  form  as  firm  a  clot 
with  milk  that  has  been  previously  heated  indicates  that  rennin  reduces 
the  charge  on  the  casein  particles  but  not  sufficiently  to  form  a  firm  clot. 
This  offers  a  colloidal  explanation  of  why  the  addition  of  active  cations 
(as  calcium  chloride)  to  heated  milk  causes  the  rennin  to  coagulate  the 
milk  normally. 

Hydrogen-ion  concentration.  The  reaction  of  the  milk  affects  the  rapid- 
ity of  coagulation  and  the  character  of  the  curd  formed.  Ordinarily  when 
the  reaction  of  the  milk  is  alkaline  coagulation  does  not  occur.  This  is 
shown  by  the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  soda  to  milk  before  the  addi- 
tion of  junket.  The  optimum  hydrogen-ion  concentration  for  rennin  activity 
has  been  reported  to  lie  in  the  zone  between  pH  5.99  and  6.40. 

Character  of  cations.  In  addition  to  rennin,  cations  are  necessary  to 
bring  about  coagulation  of  milk.  Because  casein  and  calcium  are  so  closely 
involved  in  milk,  the  cation  calcium  is  important  in  bringing  about  coagula- 
tion. Hence,  Rogers  states  that  it  is  to  be  expected  that  the  concentration 
of  both  casein  and  calcium  markedly  affect  both  the  rate  of  coagulation  and 
the  character  of  the  clot.  If  milk  is  diluted  with  sufficient  water,  clotting 
is  both  delayed  and  incomplete,  the  clot  being  soft.  If  calcium  chloride 
is  added  to  the  water,  diluted  milk  clotting  properties  are  restored,  which 
suggests  that  the  concentration  of  calcium  ions  is  more  important  than 
that  of  the  casein  ions. 

Rogers  states  that  any  metallic  ion  can  replace  the  calcium  in  coagulation. 
However,  it  is  generally  accepted  that  the  sodium  and  potassium  salts  of 
paracasein  are  soluble.  Monovalent  ions  are  less  effective  than  divalent 
ones  in  replacing  the  calcium.  Rogers  reports  that  all  monovalent  ions  did 
not  bring  about  coagulation  in  some  instances.  The  divalent  ions  were  not 
all  equally  effective,  calcium  and  barium  being  more  efficient  than  mag- 
nesium. 


304  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

Sugar.  Sugar  tends  to  prevent  the  coagulation  of  milk  by  rennin. 

Coagulation  of  milk  by  acid.  Kruyt  states  that  there  are  some 
proteins  that  are  not  sufficiently  hydrated  to  be  stable  by  hydration  alone. 
He  cites  casein  as  an  example  of  a  protein  "which  can  exist  either  in  acid 
or  in  an  alkaline  solution,  but  does  not  dissolve  in  water,  with  the  con- 
sequence that  the  sol  ordinarily  flocculates  when  neutralized."  Either 
the  acid  produced  during  fermentation  or  acids  added  to  milk  precipitate 
the  casein.  The  casein  is  least  soluble  at  its  isoelectric  point  /)H  4.6.  If 
enough  acid  is  added  to  lower  the  /)H  below  4.6,  casein  salts,  such  as 
casein  chloride  or  casein  lactate,  are  formed.  If  these  salts  are  soluble,  the 
casein  goes  into  solution.  Hence  the  largest  yield  of  precipitated  casein  is 
near  the  isoelectric  point. 

Fermentation  of  milk.  Fermentation,  or  the  production  of  lactic  acid 
from  lactose  by  bacteria,  takes  place  in  milk  that  is  allowed  to  stand  under 
favorable  conditions.  Rogers  states  that  true  lactic  acid  fermentation  is 
brought  about  by  the  Streptococcus  lactis  and  certain  other  organisms, 
lactic  acid  being  the  principal  end-product,  other  products  being  present 
in  only  small  amounts.  In  mixed  lactic  acid  fermentation,  or  when  other 
organisms  in  addition  to  S.  lactis  are  present,  the  end-products  may  include 
acetic,  propionic,  lactic,  succinic,  formic,  and  butyric  acids,  carbon  dioxide, 
hydrogen,  acetone,  and  ethanol.  As  fermentation  increases,  an  acidity  is 
reached  at  which  the  action  of  most  bacteria  is  suppressed.  When  fermenta- 
tion is  checked  at  />H  4.8  to  5.0,  the  bacteria  consists  chiefly  of  Strepto- 
coccus lactis. 

The  rate  of  fermentation  depends  chiefly  upon  the  temperature  at  which 
the  milk  is  held.  At  low  temperatures,  on  account  of  retardation  of  bac- 
terial action,  it  takes  place  slowly.  Rogers  states  that  fermented  milk, 
allow^ed  to  stand  at  a  fairly  high  temperature,  undergoes  a  second  lactic 
acid  fermentation  brought  about  by  the  Lactobacillus  bulgaricus  organ- 
isms. Some  of  these  types  of  bacteria  form  a  high  percentage  of  acid  and 
the  hydrogen-ion  concentration  may  reach  /)H  3.23. 

Changes  occurring  during  acid  precipitation.  During  fermentation  chem- 
ical and  physical  changes  occur  in  the  milk.  The  flavor  becomes  acid.  The 
calcium  caseinate  is  changed  to  casein.  During  this  process  calcium  is  split 
off  and  forms  soluble  calcium  lactate.  In  addition  some  dicalcium  phos- 
phate is  converted  into  monocalcium  phosphate.  Curdling  or  clotting  occurs 
when  the  acidity  reaches  about  pH  5.3.  During  the  clotting  process  the 
hydrogen-ion  concentration  does  not  increase.  Milk  clotted  by  fermenta- 
tion is  often  called  clabbered  milk.  Its  flavor  and  aroma  may  vary,  depend- 
ing upon  the  types  of  bacteria  producing  the  fermentation.  Fermented 
milk  may  be  used  for  drinking,  for  cooking,  and  for  cottage  cheese. 

Cheese,  such  as  cottage  cheese,  when  clotted  by  acid  coagulation,  loses  a 
large  proportion  of  its  calcium.  The  calcium  salts  become  soluble  more 
rapidly  than  the  phosphorus ;  hence  a  larger  proportion  of  the  calcium  than 
of  the  phosphorus  is  lost  in  the  whey.  Casein  precipitated  by  rennin  retains 


HEAT  COAGULATION  305 

most  of  its  insoluble  salts,  hence  has  a  larger  proportion  of  calcium  than 
the  acid  precipitated  casein. 

Heat  Coagulation.  The  term  heat  coagulation  refers  to  the  so-called 
"denaturation"  of  the  protein,  by  which  it  is  rendered  insoluble. 

Lactalbumin.  Lactalbumin  has  temperatures  for  heat  coagulation  similar 
to  that  of  egg  albumin.  The  lactalbumin  forms  a  flocculent  precipitate, 
whereas  egg  albumin  forms  a  firm  coagulum.  Rupp  has  reported  the  fol- 
lowing amount  of  lactalbumin  coagulated  when  heated  for  30  minutes. 


Temperature, 

Albumin  rendered  insoluble, 

°c. 

per  cent 

62.8 

0.00 

65.6 

5.75 

68.3 

12.75 

71.1 

30.78 

Casein.  Casein  is  not  coagulated  by  heat  at  ordinary  temperatures  or 
when  heated  for  short  periods,  though  the  heating  may  alter  the  casein. 
Rogers  states  that  it  is  necessary  to  heat  milk  about  12  hours  at  100°C.  to 
bring  about  coagulation.  It  takes  approximately  1  hour  at  135°C.  and 
approximately  3  minutes  at  155°C.  The  time  and  temperature  vary  some- 
what with  different  milks. 

The  rate  of  coagulation  depends  upon  the  concentration  of  the  casein  as 
well  as  the  time  and  the  temperature  of  heating.  Rogers  states  that 
evaporated  milk,  containing  twice  the  concentration  of  solids-not-fat  in 
normal  milk,  and  thus  a  higher  concentration  of  casein,  requires  about  60 
minutes  for  coagulation  at  114.5°C.,  10  minutes  at  131  °C.,  and  7500 
minutes  at  80°C. 

Rogers  and  Palmer  both  state  that,  in  the  evaporated-milk  industry, 
the  forewarming  of  milk  prior  to  processing  increases  its  stability  to  heat. 
"Rapid  improvement  in  resistance  to  heat  coagulation  results  in  increase 
in  temperature  for  prewarming  up  to  90°  to  100°C.  Above  90°C.  the 
change  is  very  small,  but  in  some  cases  can  be  effected  with  increases  in 
temperature  up  to  120°C.  for  10-minute  periods  of  forewarming.  When 
time  is  chosen  as  the  variable,  improvement  may  be  noted  with  increases  in 
the  time  up  to  30  minutes  at  a  temperature  of  95  °C.  At  higher  tempera- 
tures the  same  improvement  may  be  effected  in  shorter  periods  of  time." 

Fat.  Rogers  states  that  fat  particles  in  relatively  large  aggregates  may 
act  as  nuclei  about  which  coagulation  of  the  casein  can  proceed.  In  un- 
homogenized  milk  the  fat  affects  the  coagulation  time  and  temperature  but 
slightly.  But  when  a  milk  of  higher  fat  content  is  homogenized  the  fat 
clumps  may  act  as  nuclei  about  which  the  casein  may  gather  during  heat- 
ing. With  increase  in  homogenization  pressure  as  well  as  fat  content,  other 
conditions  being  the  same,  a  marked  decrease  in  stability  to  heat  is  noted. 
In  homogenized  milk  it  was  found  that  the  maximum  stability  to  heat 
coagulation  occurs  if  homogenization  is  carried  out  at  80°. 


306  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

Rogers  adds  that  the  feathering  of  some  homogenized  cream  when 
added  to  coffee  may  be  caused  by  using  too  high  homogenization  pressure, 
thus  reducing  the  stability  of  the  cream  to  heat. 

The  role  of  salts  in  heat  coagulation  of  milk.  In  heat  coagulation  of 
milk,  the  milk  salts  play  an  important  role,  for  the  salt  equilibrium  is 
altered  by  heat.  When  milk  is  boiled  precipitation  of  part  of  the  calcium 
phosphate  occurs.  Sommer  and  Hart  have  concluded  that  salts  are  the 
main  factor  in  heat  coagulation  of  fresh  milk.  Electrolytes  have  a  marked 
effect  upon  the  stability  of  colloids.  In  precipitating  a  hydrophilic  colloid 
divalent  and  trivalent  ions  are  generally  more  effective  than  monovalent 
ones.  In  the  milk  are  found  the  monovalent  cations,  sodium  and  potas- 
sium; the  monovalent  anion,  chlorine;  the  divalent  cations,  calcium  and 
magnesium;  and  the  trivalent  anions,  phosphate  and  citrate.  Sommer  and 
Hart  concluded  that  the  coagulation  of  milk  on  heating  may  be  due  to  an 
excess  or  a  deficiency  of  calcium  and  magnesium.  They  explain  this  as 
follows.  "The  casein  of  the  milk  is  most  stable  with  regard  to  heat  when 
it  is  in  combination  with  the  calcium.  If  the  calcium  combined  with  the 
casein  is  above  or  below  this  optimum,  the  casein  is  not  in  its  most  stable 
condition.  The  calcium  of  the  milk  distributes  itself  between  the  casein, 
citrates,  and  phosphates  chiefly.  If  the  milk  is  high  in  citrate  and  phosphate 
content,  more  calcium  is  necessary  in  order  that  the  casein  may  retain  its 
optimum  calcium  content  after  competing  with  the  citrates  and  phosphates. 
If  the  milk  is  high  in  calcium  there  may  not  be  sufficient  citrates  and 
phosphates  to  compete  with  the  casein  to  lower  its  calcium  content  to  the 
optimum.  In  such  cases  the  addition  of  citrates  or  phosphates  makes  the 
casein  more  stable  by  reducing  its  calcium  content.  The  magnesium  func- 
tions by  replacing  the  calcium  in  the  citrates  and  phosphates." 

Heat  coagulation  of  casein  endothermic.  Leighton  and  Mudge  have 
shown  that  an  endothermic  reaction  accompanies  the  appearance  of  visible 
curds  when  milk  is  coagulated  by  heat.  This  is  accompanied  by  precipita- 
tion of  calcium  and  magnesium  as  phosphate  and  citrates. 

A  similar  reaction  occurs  in  custard.  In  cooking  custard,  the  ingredients 
of  which  are  milk,  egg,  and  sugar,  the  temperature  drops  or  does  not  rise 
for  a  period  of  time  during  coagulation  or  setting  of  the  custard,  a  condition 
particularly  noticeable  just  before  curdling  takes  place. 

Coagulation  of  milk  by  cooking  meat  or  vegetables  in  it.  Fresh 
milk  is  seldom  coagulated  by  heating  for  home  use.  The  temperature 
attained  in  ordinary  heating  is  not  great  enough  to  cause  coagulation,  nor 
is  the  milk  heated  for  the  long  period  required  for  coagulation  at  boiling 
temperatures.  But  with  the  addition  of  other  foods  to  milk  in  food  prepara- 
tion, coagulation  often  occurs  with  a  very  short  period  of  heating.  One 
of  the  factors  in  this  coagulation  is  undoubtedly  the  salt  content  of  the 
food  added  to  the  milk  as  well  as  the  salt  content  of  the  milk.  The  balance 
of  the  milk  salts  for  greatest  stability  may  be  upset  and  coagulation  occurs 
when  the  food  is  heated  in  the  milk. 


COOKING  OF  VEGETABLES  IN  MILK  307 

Cooking  o£  meat  in  milk.  Ham  is  often  baked  in  milk.  Sometimes 
pork  chops  are  floured,  seared  in  fat,  and  then  baked  in  milk.  Other  meats 
and  fish  are  sometimes  baked  or  cooked  in  milk.  Often  curdling  of  the 
milk  occurs,  and  the  appearance  of  the  meat,  owing  to  adherence  of  curds 
of  milk,  is  not  attractive.  Thus  it  is  desirable  to  prevent  curdling.  Among 
the  causes  of  curdling  are  the  temperature  at  w^hich  the  meat  is  cooked, 
the  salt  content  of  the  food  cooked  in  the  milk,  the  manner  in  vrhich  the 
milk  is  added  to  the  meat,  and  the  reaction  of  the  milk. 

The  higher  the  temperature  at  vs^hich  the  meat  is  cooked  the  greater 
the  tendency  to  curdle.  Larger  curds  are  also  formed  at  higher  tempera- 
tures. The  temperature  to  vrhich  milk  must  be  heated  to  bring  about  curd- 
ling is  high,  so  this  cooking  temperature  alone  is  not  sufficient  to  bring 
about  the  coagulation.  Even  when  the  meat  is  cooked  in  an  oven  at  a  high 
temperature,  the  liquid  portion  does  not  reach  a  higher  temperature  than 
boiling.  It  is  possible  that  the  acidity  is  increased  during  cooking,  but  the 
resulting  />H  of  the  meat-milk  broth  is  changed  very  little  from  that  of  the 
original  milk  or  from  that  of  the  meat  broth  when  the  meat  is  cooked  in 
water.  Thus  it  seems  that  the  heating  and  the  acidity  developed  during 
cooking  do  not  alone  bring  about  coagulation. 

The  salt  content  of  the  food  cooked  in  the  milk  probably  influences  the 
coagulation,  and  this  combined  with  the  heating,  the  temperature  of  heat- 
ing, the  acidity  developed,  and  the  altering  of  the  casein  by  heat  are  suf- 
ficient to  cause  curdling.  Sodium  chloride  has  some  effect,  for  curdling  is 
more  likely  to  occur  when  the  meat  cooked  in  the  milk  is  a  cured  or  salted 
one  than  when  fresh  meat  is  used. 

Curdling  may  be  prevented  by  the  addition  of  soda,  about  1/16  teaspoon 
per  cup  of  milk.  From  this  it  appears  that  the  reaction  has  some  part  in 
the  coagulation.  The  soda  may  combine  with  other  salts  that  tend  to  bring 
about  coagulation  or  the  coagulation  may  be  prevented  by  the  slightly 
alkaline  reaction.  A  slightly  alkaline  reaction  also  prevents  coagulation  by 
rennin  and  by  fermentation. 

If  a  portion  of  the  milk  is  added  to  the  meat  when  cooking  is  first 
started  and  the  rest  of  the  cold  milk  added  gradually  to  the  meat  during 
the  cooking  period,  curdling  is  less  likely  to  occur.  The  addition  of  acid 
foods,  such  as  prepared  mustard,  which  may  contain  vinegar,  or  apples 
and  pears  to  be  baked  with  the  meat,  would  tend  to  increase  the  tendency 
to  curdle.  Evaporated  milk  has  less  tendency  to  curdle  than  fresh  milk, 
which  may  be  due  to  the  previous  heating. 

Cooking  of  vegetables  in  milk.  Milk  usually  does  not  curdle  when 
cabbage,  chard,  spinach,  or  cauliflower  is  cooked  in  it.  But  it  is  likely 
to  curdle  when  asparagus,  string  beans,  peas,  and  carrots  are  cooked  in  it. 
Asparagus  usually  curdles  the  milk  after  a  few  minutes  of  cooking.  There 
are  several  factors  that  may  aid  in  bringing  about  coagulation  of  the  milk. 
The  slight  acidity  of  some  vegetables  combined  with  the  heating  of  the 
milk  may  tend  to  bring  about  coagulation,  but  the  acidity  is  not  usually 


308  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

great  enough,  nor  the  boiling  temperature  high  enough,  nor  the  boiling 
long  enough  continued  for  these  factors  to  be  very  important.  The  salt 
and  the  tannin  contents  of  the  vegetables  are  probably  the  principal  causes 
of  coagulation.  Some  vegetables  contain  larger  amounts  of  tannin  than 
others.  Tannin  is  a  dehydrating  agent  and  brings  about  denaturation  of 
hydrophilic  sols,  like  gelatin,  starch,  and  agar-agar.  After  denaturation  the 
hydrophile  is  sensitive  to  small  amounts  of  electrolytes  and  precipitation 
occurs  readily.  Kruyt  states  that  tannins  do  not  bring  about  dehydration 
of  the  protein  in  an  alkaline  medium.  Hence  the  addition  of  soda  in  small 
amounts  to  the  milk  in  w^hich  the  vegetable  is  cooked  prevents  coagulation 
of  the  milk.  Tannins  lower  the  surface  tension,  which  results  in  foaming 
of  vegetables  containing  tannin  when  they  are  cooked  in  water.  It  is  rather 
interesting  that  the  vegetables  that  usually  foam  the  most  when  cooked 
in  water  are  the  ones  that  have  the  greatest  tendency  to  coagulate  milk. 

Tomato  soup.  When  tomatoes  are  combined  with  milk  to  make  cream  of 
tomato  soup,  coagulation  may  occur.  The  acidity  of  tomatoes  varies  some- 
what, but  is  about  pH  4.4  to  4.6.  If  the  amount  of  tomato  added  to  the 
milk  is  great  enough  to  lower  the  /)H  of  the  mixed  milk  and  tomato  to 
4.8  to  4.6,  the  casein  is  precipitated  without  heating.  This  may  happen  if 
the  milk  is  already  fairly  acid. 

Since  a  longer  time  of  heating  milk  increases  the  tendency  to  curdle  it  is 
preferable  to  heat  tomato  soup  for  only  a  short  time.  Heating  slowly  also 
increases  the  tendency  to  curdle,  which  may  be  due  to  the  longer  time 
required.  In  Experiment  55  in  the  laboratory  outline  several  different 
methods  of  combining  the  tomato  juice  and  milk  are  given.  The  tomato 
is  usually  added  to  the  milk  by  stirring,  for  in  this  w^ay  the  milk  is  diluted 
with  a  smaller  amount  of  acid  substance  during  the  first  part  of  the  mixing. 
There  is  less  tendency  to  curdle  when  the  hot  tomato  is  added  to  cold  milk, 
than  when  the  cold  tomato  is  added  to  hot  milk.  Probably  the  slight 
denaturation  brought  about  by  heating  the  milk  may  partially  account 
for  this.  Occasionally  some  milk  is  acid  enough  and  the  tomato  is  acid 
enough  to  cause  curdling  with  all  methods  of  combining  unless  soda  is 
added.  At  other  times  curdling  does  not  occur  with  any  method  of  com- 
bining as  outlined  in  this  experiment. 

Fruits  and  milk.  When  cream  is  added  to  fruit,  clotting  often  occurs. 
This  is  usually  due  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit,  but  may  also  be  due  to  an 
enzyme  in  it.  Raw  pineapple  contains  an  enzyme,  bromelin,  that  brings 
about  clotting  of  milk.  However,  the  pineapple  juice  not  only  brings  about 
clotting  but  also  peptization,  for  after  a  time  the  clot  formed  is  less  firm 
and  the  flavor  is  similar  to  that  of  peptized  meat. 

Boiling  and  Heating  of  Milk 

The  physical  and  chemical  properties  of  the  constituents  of  milk  account 
for  the  behavior  of  milk  during  its  use   in   food  preparation.   Thus  sub- 


SUGAR  REACTIONS  WITH  PROTEINS  OF  MILK     309 

stances  that  lower  surface  tension  become  concentrated  in  the  liquid/air 
interface.  Proteins  lower  the  surface  tension  of  aqueous  sols,  hence  accu- 
mulate in  the  surface.  When  milk  is  heated  in  an  open  pan,  a  scum  or  skin 
forms  over  the  surface  of  the  milk.  At  first  this  skin  is  rather  thin  and 
mobile  but  is  gradually  altered  so  that  it  becomes  tenacious  and  tough 
enough  to  be  removed  with  a  stirring  rod  or  spoon.  This  scum  has  been 
said  to  contain  coagulated  albumin  and  globulin.  Tinkler  and  Masters 
state  that  if  the  scum  is  removed  as  formed,  the  total  amount  of  protein 
that  can  be  removed  exceeds  the  total  amount  of  albumin  and  globulin  in 
the  milk. 

When  foods  are  cooked  in  milk  the  milk  not  only  foams  readily  but  the 
scum  tends  to  hold  the  steam  formed  in  heating  the  milk;  it  is  because 
of  this  that  the  milk  ''boils  over"  so  readily. 

Sugar  Reactions  with  Proteins  o£  Milk 

Ramsay,  Tracy,  and  Ruehe  investigated  the  substitution  of  dextrose  for 
sucrose  in  sweetened  condensed  skim  milk.  They  found  the  objections  to 
using  dextrose  were  (1)  a  brown  discoloration,  (2)  a  physical  thickening, 
and  (3)  crystallization  of  the  dextrose  during  storage.  The  last  objection 
could  be  remedied  by  using  50  per  cent  dextrose  and  50  per  cent  sucrose. 
The  progressive  thickening  during  storage  at  high  temperature  was  caused 
by  action  of  the  dextrose  on  the  casein  and  albumin  of  the  milk.  During 
this  investigation  they  found  additional  evidence  that  sugars  react  with 
proteins.  When  dextrose,  lactose,  or  levulose  was  heated  with  skim  milk  or 
freshly  precipitated  casein,  a  dark  brown  color  formed  In  the  product. 
When  the  sugars  were  heated  In  distilled  water  solutions  to  250°F.  for 
30  minutes  no  caramelizatlon  occurred.  Neither  did  darkening  occur  when 
albumin  or  casein  was  heated  in  water  solution.  But  when  the  milk, 
albumin,  or  casein  was  heated  with  lactose  or  dextrose,  a  brown  dis- 
coloration occurred.  As  the  temperature  was  raised  the  dextrose  and 
casein  became  so  firmly  attached  to  each  other  that  no  amount  of  washing 
could  remove  the  sugar.  Most  of  the  biruet  action  of  the  skim  milk  was 
lost.  The  results  were  explained  on  the  basis  that  a  protein-sugar  complex 
of  glucosidal  nature  was  formed. 

On  heating  amino  acids  with  dextrose  highly  colored  products  were 
formed,  the  reaction  probably  being  a  condensation  of  an  amino  acid  with 
an  aldehyde  or  ketone  group  of  the  sugar.  The  very  stable  linkage  of  the 
aldehyde  group  of  the  dextrose  and  the  ketone  group  of  the  fructose  In  the 
sucrose  molecule  Is  cited  to  explain  the  failure  of  sucrose  to  form  condensa- 
tion products  with  casein,  albumin,  or  amino  acids.  It  was  found  that  as 
the  reaction  became  more  alkaline  the  appearance  of  the  brown  color  was 
more  rapid.  The  Increased  alkalinity  was  said  to  favor  the  change  of  the 
sugar  from  a  lactone  to  a  free  aldehyde  form,  the  free  aldehyde  acting  with 
the  amino   acid   or  -NHo  groups  of   the  protein.    If   the   pH   was   much 


310  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

above  7  the  milk  was  almost  black.  Hence,  the  sugar  used,  the  reaction, 
and  temperature  all  influenced  the  development  of  the  brown  color.  The 
length  of  heating  in  connection  with  the  temperature  was  important  as 
relatively  high  temperatures  for  a  short  period  gave  only  slight  develop- 
ment of  the  brown  color.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  retain  the  natural  color 
of  fresh  milk  in  the  condensed  milk  products,  for  some  brow^n  discoloration 
occurs  in  the  unsweetened  and  sweetened  product  whether  made  from 
whole  or  skim  milk. 

Whittier  and  Benton  had  shown  that  the  hydrogen-ion  concentration 
increases  at  a  rate  which  is  the  function  of  the  lactose  concentration  and 
the  time  and  temperature  of  heating.  Or,  in  other  words,  when  milk  is 
heated  for  a  sufficient  time  at  high  enough  temperatures  the  lactose  is 
decomposed  with  formation  of  acid  products.  Hence,  when  milk  is  heated 
with  sucrose  the  increasing  acidity  inverts  some  of  the  sucrose  to  dextrose 
and  levulose,  with  the  development  of  a  brownish  color.  One  example  of 
this  is  in  the  cooking  of  caramels,  more  brown  color  developing  with  long 
slow  cooking  of  the  sucrose  and  milk.  Another  instance  where  this  is  used 
to  advantage  is  in  making  caramel  pudding  by  boiling,  in  the  can,  sweetened 
condensed  milk  for  three  hours  or  longer.  The  can  and  contents  are  chilled. 
On  opening  the  can  it  is  found  that  the  contents  have  developed  the  brown 
color  of  caramelized  products  and  are  thickened  to  the  consistency  of  a 
pudding. 

This  combination  of  sugar  with  milk  proteins  to  form  a  thickened 
product  is  interesting  in  view  of  the  fact  that  sucrose,  dextrose,  and  levu- 
lose prevent  the  heat  coagulation  of  egg  albumin. 

The  housewife  also  makes  use  of  the  effect  of  acid  on  sweetened  con- 
densed milk.  If  about  Yi  cup  of  lemon  juice  is  stirred  into  the  contents  of 
a  can  (about  1^  cups)  of  sweetened  condensed  milk,  the  mixture  thickens 
to  a  consistency  that  can  be  used  for  a  pudding  or  pie  filling  and  may  be 
thinned  with  water  to  a  desired  consistency.  The  explanation  of  the 
thickening  lies  in  the  action  of  the  acid  on  the  complex  sugar-protein 
combination. 

Cheese 

Definition.  The  Food  and  Drug  Administration  defines  cheese,  in  the 
regulatory  announcements,  as  "a  product  made  from  curd  obtained  from 
the  whole,  partly  skimmed,  or  skimmed  milk  of  cows,  or  from  milk  of 
other  animals  with  or  without  added  cream,  by  coagulating  with  rennet, 
lactic  acid,  or  other  suitable  enzyme  or  acid,  and  with  or  without  further 
treatment  of  the  separated  curd  by  heat  or  pressure,  or  by  means  of  ripen- 
ing ferments,  special  molds,  or  seasoning." 

Classification  of  cheese.  Cheese  may  be  classified  in  many  ways  as 
(1)  method  by  which  the  curd  is  produced,  i.e.,  acid  or  rennet  coagula- 
tion,   (2)    source   of   the   milk,   from  cow,   sheep,   or   goat,    and    (3)    the 


COAGULATION  OF  MILK  FOR  CHEESE  311 

texture  and  consistency  of  the  cheese,  i.e.,  whether  soft,  semi-hard,  or  hard. 
Many  other  classifications  might  be  used  but  none  of  them  are  entirely 
satisfactory. 

Doane  and  Lawson  list  and  describe  nearly  300  cheeses.  They  state 
there  are  probably  about  18  distinct  varieties  of  cheese. 

For  purposes  of  discussion,  Rogers  classifies  cheese  as  follows: 

Soft  Hard 

Unripened  Semi-hard 

Cottage  Ripened  by  molds 

Cream  Gorgonzola 

Neufchatel  Roquefort 

Ripened  Stilton 

Ripened  by  molds  Ripened  by  bacteria 

Camembert  Brick 

Brie  Munster 

Ripened  by  bacteria  Very  hard 

Limberger  Without  gas  holes 

Liderkranz  Cheddar 

Edam 
Gouda 
With  gas  holes 
Emmenthal 
Swiss 
Parmesan 

Composition  of  cheese.  From  the  standpoint  of  quantity  the  prin- 
cipal constituents  of  cheese  are  casein,  fat,  and  water.  In  addition  it 
contains  various  salts,  and  unless  heated  to  pasteurization  temperatures 
various  organisms  such  as  bacteria  and  molds.  Different  types  of  soft 
cheese  may  contain  from  40  to  75  per  cent  of  water,  hence  this  type  does 
not  keep  long.  Hard-type  cheeses  usually  average  30  to  40  per  cent 
moisture.  The  soft  types  may  contain  from  13  to  21  per  cent  of  protein 
and  from  0.5  to  50  per  cent  of  fat.  Hard  types  contain  from  20  to  45  per 
cent  protein  and  19  to  40  per  cent  fat. 

Coagulation  of  milk  for  cheese.  Coagulation  may  be  brought  about 
by  rennet  or  acid.  Rennet-formed  curds  are  more  elastic,  the  acid  ones 
more  sticky.  In  acid-formed  curds  more  of  the  calcium  salts  are  split  off 
from  casein,  forming  calcium  chloride  which  is  soluble  in  the  whey.  Rennet- 
coagulated  cheeses  of  cheddar  types  retain  about  80  per  cent  of  the  calcium 
of  milk,  whereas  soft  cheeses  retain  about  20  per  cent. 

The  temperature  for  coagulation  varies  with  the  type  of  cheese  desired. 
In  general,  the  lower  the  temperature  the  softer  the  curd.  Curds  formed 
at  21°  to  25°C.  are  used  for  some  soft  cheeses.  Cheddar  cheese  has  a 
firmer  curd  and  the  milk  is  brought  to  30°C.  before  the  starter  and  rennet 
are  added.  Temperatures  as  high  as  48°C.  may  be  used  for  some  cheese. 


312  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

the  curd  produced  being  distinctly  tough  and  somewhat  rubbery  and 
elastic. 

Making  cheese.  The  essential  steps  in  making  cheese  are:  blending 
the  particular  type  of  milk  desired ;  bringing  the  milk  to  a  definite  tempera- 
ture ;  adding  lactic  acid  culture  for  types  of  cheese  that  need  greater 
hydrogen-ion  concentration  when  the  rennet  is  added  (acid  cultures  are 
added  to  cheddar  types,  but  not  to  Sw^ss)  ;  adding  vegetable  color,  if 
cheese  is  to  be  yellow,  omitting  if  cheese  is  to  be  American  white;  and 
adding  the  rennet.  After  coagulation  the  curds  are  cut  to  the  definite  size 
for  the  type  of  cheese  desired.  Small  curds  retain  less  moisture  within  the 
curd  but  the  whey  does  not  drain  so  well  from  the  curd.  The  next  step 
is  stirring  the  curd  gently  to  facilitate  draining  of  the  whey.  The  curd  is 
then  ditched,  salted,  put  in  molds  lined  with  cloth,  and  pressed  into  defi- 
nite shapes  as  Longhorms,  Prints,  Daisies,  Flats,  Twins,  and  Cheddars. 
After  being  pressed  the  cheese  may  be  soaked  in  salt  brine  or  dry  salt  may 
be  rubbed  on  the  surface.  Sometimes  no  additional  salting  occurs.  Soft 
unripened  cheese  is  not  cured ;  but  after  being  pressed  or  molded  other 
types  are  placed  on  shelves  in  caves  or  specially  constructed  curing  rooms 
to  ripen.  In  the  latter  ventilation,  humidity,  and  temperature  may  be  care- 
fully controlled  according  to  the  type  of  cheese.  The  curing  period  varies 
for  different  types  of  cheese  and  for  the  same  type.  For  example,  Cheddar 
may  be  cured  from  2  or  3  months  to  2  years.  With  longer  curing  a 
sharper,  richer,  and  fuller  flavor  is  developed. 

Cheese,  after  being  cured,  is  often  blended  for  uniform  flavor,  texture, 
and  body. 

Secondary  heating  o£  the  curd.  A  secondary  heating  of  the  curd  is 
necessary  with  most  hard  and  semi-hard  cheeses.  Making  Emmenthal  in- 
volves heating  to  about  55°  to  58°C.  This  heating  hastens  the  driving  of 
the  whey  from  the  curd,  changes  its  texture,  and  often  alters  the  bacterial 
flora.  The  heating  at  high  temperatures  decreases  the  moisture  content  and 
rennet  action  is  checked  if  not  wholly  stopped.  Various  physical  changes 
take  place  during  this  period,  the  curd  becoming  tough,  firmer,  and  rubbery. 
In  Swiss  and  Parmesan  cheese  it  also  acquires  plasticity. 

Ripening  of  cheese.  In  the  process  of  ripening  chemical  and  physical 
changes  occur  In  the  cheese.  It  loses  Its  tough,  rubbery  qualities  and  becomes 
soft  and  mellow,  sometimes  almost  crumbly.  During  this  change  as  much 
as  50  per  cent  of  the  nitrogenous  constituents  may  be  converted  to  soluble 
forms,  though  the  average  for  hard  cheese  Is  30  per  cent.  These  changes 
not  only  alter  the  texture  and  flavor,  but  also  alter  the  cooking  quality  of 
the  cheese,  the  Increased  solubility  of  the  proteins  Increasing  the  ease  with 
which  the  cheese  may  be  blended  with  eggs,  milk,  and  white  sauce. 

Ripening  Is  slower  at  lower  temperatures  and  more  rapid  at  higher  ones. 
Not  only  enzymes  of  the  milk,  if  the  milk  has  not  been  heated  to  a  tem- 
perature to  destroy  the  enzymes,  but  bacteria  aid  in  ripening  of  the  cheese 
and  hydrolysis  of  the  proteins.  Some  bacteria,  such  as  lactic  acid,  produce 


PROCESSED  CHEESE  313 

enzymes  that  split  the  protein.  More  hydrolysis  occurs  in  the  softer  center 
of  hard  cheese  than  near  the  rind.  Salting  affects  the  rate  of  ripening  by 
delaying  bacterial  growth,  the  proteins  of  cheese  with  more  salt  becoming 
soluble  at  a  slower  rate.  Salt  penetrates  slowly  from  the  rind  to  the  center 
and  aids  in  drying  the  cheese.  Changes  in  the  fat  in  the  interior  of  most 
cheese  are  usually  negligible. 

For  the  growth  of  molds  and  aerobic  bacteria,  holes  must  be  punched 
in  the  cheese  to  allow  oxygen  from  the  air  to  penetrate. 

In  the  early  stages  of  ripening  Emmenthal  and  Swiss  cheeses  are  soft 
and  become  elastic.  It  is  during  this  stage  that  the  holes  or  "eyes"  are 
formed  from  production  of  gas,  principally  carbon  dioxide,  if  ripening  is 
normal,  but  with  more  hydrogen  in  abnormal  or  early  ripening.  If  the 
cheese  becomes  too  firm  before  the  formation  of  holes  is  complete,  checks 
and  cracks  appear  in  the  cheese. 

Cheddar  cheese  in  cans.  The  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  (Rogers) 
has  announced  a  practical  method  of  canning  unripened  Cheddar  cheese. 
By  this  method  a  one-way  or  check  valve,  which  holds  perfectly  against 
external  pressure  but  with  internal  pressure  allows  gases  formed  during 
ripening  of  the  cheese  to  escape,  is  inserted  in  the  lid  of  the  can.  Cheddar 
cheese  has  always  been  pressed  in  cylindrical  forms  of  varying  sizes,  but  in 
general  rather  large.  When  these  large  cheeses  are  cut  they  lose  moisture, 
so  the  cut  surface  dries  rapidly.  In  addition,  if  the  cheese  is  well  ripened, 
loss  occurs  through  crumbling. 

In  packing  cheese  in  cans,  the  cheese,  after  pressing,  is  cut  into  the  desired 
shape.  Since  hydrogen  sulfide  is  often  liberated  during  ripening  of  cheese, 
it  is  preferable  to  wrap  the  cheese  in  parchment  and  it  is  necessary  to  use 
a  lacquered  can,  for  the  hydrogen  sulfide  tends  to  form  a  black  product 
with  metals  such  as  iron,  copper,  or  lead. 

Processed  cheese.  Rogers  states  that  before  the  development  of  the 
can  in  which  Cheddar  cheese  may  be  ripened,  the  "only  commercial  method 
for  putting  Cheddar  cheese  into  a  more  attractive  and  convenient  form  is 
the  one  known  as  processing.  After  the  rind  is  removed,  the  cheese  is 
ground,  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  an  emulsifier,  usually  sodium  citrate, 
are  added,  and  the  mass  is  heated  with  constant  stirring  until  it  becomes 
fluid.  The  emulsion  is  run  into  forms,  which  in  many  cases  are  boxes  lined 
with  tinfoil,  in  which  it  is  sold.  The  cheese  hardens  quickly  and,  as  the 
wrapping  adheres  closely,  there  is  no  trouble  from  molds.  Moreover,  as  the 
temperature  is  high  enough  to  constitute  pasteurization,  most  of  the  bacteria 
are  killed  and  the  enzymes  destroyed,  so  that  ripening  is  stopped.  In  this 
process,  much  of  the  original  character  of  the  cheese  is  lost;  but,  in  spite 
of  this  objection,  the  advantage  of  the  package  is  so  great  that  a  large  part, 
possibly  one-third,  of  all  the  cheese  made  in  the  United  States  is  sold  in 
this  form." 

Templeton  and  Sommer  have  investigated  various  salts  that  may  be  used 
as  emulsifiers  in  processed  cheese.  They  state  the  purpose  of  the  salt  is  to 


I 


314  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

prevent  separation  of  the  fat  from  the  cheese  and  at  the  same  time  give  the 
finished  product  the  desired  body  and  texture.  They  quote  Habicht  as 
stating  that  an  alkaline  monovalent  cation  combined  with  a  polyvalent 
anion,  such  as  sodium  citrate,  is  the  ideal  emulsifying  salt.  The  physico- 
chemical  explanation  is  as  follows:  There  is  partial  saponification  between 
the  cation  (sodium,  if  sodium  citrate  is  used)  and  the  fatty  acids.  The  soaps 
formed  are  good  emulsifiers.  In  addition  the  anion,  which  is  a  solvent  for 
casein,  combines  with  the  casein  of  cheese  so  that  a  film  of  casein  surrounds 
each  fat  globule,  thus  emulsifying  it  and  preventing  its  escape  from  the 
mass.  Later  we  find  that  the  citrate  ion  is  also  a  good  peptizer  of  egg  and 
flour  proteins. 

Loaf  cheese.  Rogers  states  that  blending  is  used  extensively  for 
Cheddar  and  Swiss  cheese.  In  this  process  the  cheese  is  ground  and  heated 
in  steam-jacketed  kettles,  60°  to  70°,  and  then  poured  into  molds.  In  the 
initial  heating  separation  of  the  fat  occurs;  but  with  longer  heating  the 
casein  becomes  plastic  and  stringy  and  encloses  the  fat.  Further  agitation 
causes  the  mass  to  lose  its  plasticity  and  become  the  consistency  of  heavy 
cream.  At  this  time  it  is  poured  into  the  molds. 

The  plasticity  of  the  cheese  is  an  important  part  of  the  process.  Once 
the  plasticity  is  broken  it  is  almost  impossible  to  restore  it.  The  method  of 
manufacture,  the  degree  of  ripening,  the  acidity  of  the  cheese,  and  possibly 
other  factors  influence  the  degree  of  plasticity  attainable  in  the  heated 
cheese  and  the  length  of  time  the  mass  will  remain  plastic.  Sodium  and 
ammonia  seem  important  in  the  emulsification  of  the  product. 

Cheese  spreads.  The  term  cheese  spread  may  be  applied  to  any  pack- 
aged form  of  cheese  that  can  be  easily  spread  with  a  knife  at  ordinary  room 
temperature.  Templeton  and  Sommer  name  the  types  on  the  market  as: 
(1)  cream  cheese,  mixed  with  pickles,  olives,  etc.,  (2)  processed  cheese  of 
such  age  and  moisture  content  as  to  be  "spready,"  and  (3)  processed  cheese 
with  concentrated  whey  or  skim  milk  powder  added  and  of  such  fat  and 
moisture  content  that  the  mix  will  spread  easily.  They  say  that,  since  the 
composition  is  quite  different  from  cheese,  as  defined  for  Food  and  Drug 
regulations,  the  product  cannot  be  sold  as  cheese.  Actually  they  are  sold  as 
food  products  under  proprietary  trade  names.  The  desirable  spreading 
qualities  may  be  due  to  the  moisture  content  or  the  fat  content  or  both. 

The  use  of  cheese  in  cooked  products.  All  of  the  factors  that 
affect  the  plasticity  of  the  cheese  when  heated  for  blending,  i.e.,  the  degree 
of  ripening,  the  acidity,  and  method  of  manufacture,  also  affect  its  blending 
properties  with  other  ingredients  in  such  dishes  as  rarebit,  cheese  souflSe, 
and  macaroni  and  cheese.  To  these  factors  may  be  added  the  extent  of 
drying.  For  the  cut  or  grated  surface  of  cheese  may  dry  rather  extensively. 
Hence,  the  protein  in  the  surface  area  really  needs  soaking  for  hydration 
before  it  will  blend  with  other  ingredients,  or  it  may  entirely  lose  its 
plasticity. 

Cream  cheese  may  be  combined  with  eggs,  sugar,  etc.,  for  cheese  cake  or 


REFERENCES  315 

similar  cooked  dishes.  But,  in  general,  whether  in  its  original  state  after 
curing,  or  processed,  the  Cheddar  type  is  the  cheese  usually  combined  with 
cooked  products. 

The  cheese  is  combined  with  white  sauce  or  eggs  at  low  temperatures  and 
by  stirring.  The  temperature  should  be  as  low  or  lower  than  that  used  for 
blending,  40°  to  50°C.  often  being  preferable  to  60°  to  70°C.  As  the 
protein  becomes  plastic  the  fat  exudes.  Stirring  aids  in  emulsifying  this  fat 
with  white  sauce  and  casein  of  the  cheese. 

Cheese  souffle.  A  colleague,  Plagge,  suggested  a  good  method  of  com- 
bining the  ingredients  for  cheese  souffle.  The  beaten  egg  yolks  were  added 
to  the  white  sauce  before  the  grated  cheese,  because  the  addition  of  the  egg 
5^olks  cooled  the  mixture  to  a  greater  extent  before  the  cheese  was  added. 
However,  another  advantage  of  this  order  of  mixing  is  that  the  egg  yolk 
aids  in  emulsifying  the  fat  of  the  cheese.  For  the  same  reason  beating  with 
a  rotary  egg  beater  as  the  cheese  softens  is  a  good  method  of  blending  the 
cheese  with  the  white  sauce,  since  it  more  efficiently  divides  the  cheese,  thus 
increasing  the  surface  area  for  emulsification. 

Processed  cheese  usually  combines  particularly  well  with  white  sauce 
and  egg  yolk,  because  of  its  added  water  content  and  the  emulsification 
of  the  fat. 

REFERENCES 

Babcock,  C.  J.  The  Whipping  Quality  of  Cream.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.  Bull.  1075 
(1922). 

Barger,  G.,  and  Coyne,  F.  P.  The  Amino-Acid  Methionine;  Constitution  and 
Synthesis.     Biochemical  J.  22:  1417   (1928). 

Brickner,  V.  The  Zinc  Content  of  Some  Food  Products.  J.  Biol.  Chem.  38:  191 
(1919). 

Browne,  C.  A.  A  Contribution  to  the  Chemistry  of  Butter-Fat.  I,  The  Physi- 
cal and  Chemical  Constants  of  Butter-Fat.  J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  21:  612  (1899). 
II.  The  Chemical  Composition  of  Butter-Fat.  J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  21:  807 
(1899).  III.  The  Chemistry  of  Rancidity  of  Butter-Fat.  J.  Am.  Chem. 
Soc.  21:  975    (1899). 

Burke,  A.  D.,  Woodson,  F.,  and  Heller,  V.  G.  The  Possible  Toxicity  of  Butter- 
milk  Soured   in  Zinc   Containers.     J.    Dairy   Sci.    11:   79    (1929). 

Chick,  H.,  and  Martin,  C.  J.  On  the  "Heat  Coagulation"  of  Proteins.  IV.  The 
Condition  Controlling  the  Agglutination  of  Proteins  Already  Acted  Upon 
by  Hot  Water.     J.  Physiology  45:  261    (1912-1913). 

Clayton,  W.  The  Theory  of  Emulsions  and  Their  Technical  Treatment.  J.  &  A. 
Churchill   (1935). 

Dahlberg,  A.  C,  and  Hening,  J.  C.  Viscosity,  Surface  Tension  and  Whipping 
Properties  of  Milk  and  Cream.  New  York  State  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Technical 
Bull.   113    (1925). 

Daum,  K.     The  Calcium  Salts  of  Heated  Milk.     J.  Home  Econ.  13:  182    (1921). 

Dean,  H.  K.,  and  Hilditch,  T.  P.  Some  Further  Observations  on  Factors  Which 
Influence  the  Component  Fatty  Acids  of  Butter.  Biochemical  J.  27:  889 
(1933). 

Doane,  C.  F.,  and  Lawson,  H.  W.  Varieties  of  Cheese;  Descriptions  and  Anal- 
yses.    U.  S.   Dept.  Agri.  Bull.  608    (1918). 

Food    and    Drug   Administration.      Definitions    and    Standard    of    Food    Products. 


316  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

Service    and    Regulatory    Announcements.      U.    S.    Dept.    Agri.      Revision    4, 

Aug.   (1933). 
Hening,   J.   C,   and   Dahlberg,   A.   C.     A  Temperature   Treatment  for   Increasing 

the   Viscosity  of   Sweet   Cream.     New   York   State   Agri.   Expt.  Sta.,   Technical 

Bull.   197    (1932). 
Kruyt,    H.    R.      Colloids.      Translation    by    H.    S.    van    Klooster.      John    Wiley    & 

Sons    (1927). 
Lepeschkin,  W.  W.     The   Heat   Coagulation   of  Proteins.     Biochemical  J.    16:   678 

(1922). 
Loeb,   J.      Proteins    and    the    Theory    of    Colloidal    Behavior.      McGraw-Hill    Co. 

(1922). 
Magee,    H.    E.,    and    Harvey,    D.      Studies    on    the    Effect    of    Heat    on    Milk.      I. 

Some   Physico-Chemical    Changes    Induced   in   Milk   by   Heat.     Biochemical   J. 

20:  873    (1926). 
Mathieson,  D.  R.     Experiment  Sta.  Record  59:  79   (1928). 
Michaelian,    M.    B.,    Farmer,    R.    S.,    and    Hammer,    B.    W.      The    Relationship    of 

Acetylmethylcarbinol    and    Diacetyl   to    Butter    Cultures.      Iowa    State   College, 

Agri.    Expt.    Sta.,    Research    Bull.    155    (1933). 
Michaelian,    M.   B.,    and    Hammer,    B.  W.      Studies    on    Acetylmethylcarbinol    and 

Diacetyl    in    Dairy    Products.      Iowa    State    College,    Agri.    Expt.     Sta.,    Re- 
search Bull.   179    (1935). 
Monroe,    C.    F.      The    Possibility    of    Producing    Iodized    Milk.      Experiment    Sta. 

Record    59:  774    (1928). 
Osborne,    T.    B.,   and    Wakeman,    A.    J.     The    Proteins    of    Cow's    Milk.      J.    Biol. 

Chem.   33:  7    (1918). 
Palmer,    L.    S.      The    Chemistry    of    Milk    and    Dairy    Products    from    a    Colloidal 

Standpoint.     World's  Dairy  Congress   (1923)   Dairy  Division,  U.  S.  Dept,  Agri. 

(1923). 
Palmer,    L.    S.      The    Chemistry    of    Milk    and    Dairy   Products    Viewed    from    a 

Colloidal  Standpoint.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  16:  631    (1924). 
Proceedings  of  the  World's  Dairy  Congress   (1923).     Dairy  Division,   U.  S.   Dept. 

Agri.    (1923). 
Ramsey,   J.,   Tracey,   P.   H.,   and   Ruehe,   H.   A.      The    Use    of   Corn    Sugar   in   the 

Manufacture  of  Sweetened  Condensed  Skim  Milk.     J.  Dairy  Sci.  16:  17   (1933). 
Richmond,   H.   D.     Dairy  Chemistry.     Charles   Griffin  &  Co.,   London    (1920). 
Rogers,  L.  A.     Fundamentals  of  Dairy  Science.     Written  by  Associates  of  Rogers. 

Chemical  Catalog  Co.     Second  Ed.   (1935). 
Rogers,  L.  A.     Packaging  American  Cheese  in  Cans.     Food  Ind.  6:  308    (1934). 
Sommer,  H.  H.,  and  Hart,  E.  B.     The  Heat  Coagulation  of  Milk     J.  Biol.  Chem. 

40:   137    (1919). 
Supplee,    G.   C,    and   Bellis,   B.     The    Copper    Content   of    Cow's    Milk.     J.    Dairy 

Sci.   5:  455    (1922). 
Templeton,   H.  L.,   and   Sommer,   H.   H.     Factors  AflFecting  the  Body   and  Texture 

of  Processed  Cheese.     J.  Dairy  Sci.  15:  29   (1932). 
Templeton,   H.   L.,   and    Sommer,    H.   H.     Cheese   Spreads.     J.   Dairy   Sci.    15:    155 

(1932). 
Templeton,   H.   L.,    and    Sommer,    H.    H.      Studies    on   the    Emulsifying    Salts    Used 

in  Processed  Cheese.     J.  Dairy  Sci.  19:  561    (1936). 
Tinkler,  C.  K.,  and  Masters,  H.     Applied  Chemistry.     Vol.  II.     D.  Van  Nostrand 

Co.    (1925). 
Whittier,  E.  O.,  and  Benton,  A.  G.     The  Effect  of  Heating  on  the  Hydrogen  Ion 

Concentration    and    the    Titratable    Acidity    of    Milk.      J.    Dairy    Sci.    9:    481 

(1926). 
Whittier,  E.  O.,  and  Benton,  A.  G.     The  Formation  of  Acid  in  Milk  by  Heating. 

J.   Dairy  Sci.   10:  126    (1927). 


COOKING  VEGETABLES  IN  MILK  317 

Zoller,    H.    F.      Casein    and    the    Dairy    Industry.      Chapter    XXXIII.      Colloidal 
Behavior,  Edited  by  Bogue.     McGraw-Hill  Co.     (1924).  ^ 

MILK 
Cream  o£  Tomato  Soup 

Experiment  55. 

To  determine  the  best  method  of  combining  ingredients  in  making  cream 
of  tomato  soup. 
A.  Use: 


Milk  }i  cup  60  grams 

Tomato  juice     }i.  cup  60  grams 

Salt  %  teaspoon 


1.  Combine  by  adding  tomato  juice  to  the  milk.  Why?  Combine  cold  tomato 
juice  and  cold  milk,  heat  hot  enough  to  serve,  and  add  salt. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  heat  slowly  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler. 

3.  Combine  hot  tomato  juice,  hot  milk,  add  salt. 

4.  Add  the  hot  tomato  juice  to  cold  milk,  heat,  add  salt. 

5.  Add  the  cold  tomato  juice  to  hot  milk,  heat,  add  salt. 

6.  If  one  curdles  badly,  repeat,  but  add  first  to  the  tomato  juice  1/32 
teaspoon  of  soda.  If  none  curdle,  prepare  6  by  any  method  desired.  What  is 
the  effect  of  soda  on  the  flavor?  On  curdling?  Why  may  tomato  juice  cause 
the  milk  to  curdle?  Why  may  curdling  sometimes  but  not  always  occur  by 
some  methods  of  mixing? 

B.  Use: 


Milk                   X  cup 
Tomato  juice     }i  cup 
Flour                  y2  tablespoon 

60     grams 

60     grams 

3.5  grams 

Butter                 }4  tablespoon 
Salt                     Ys  teaspoon 

7     grams 

1.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  and  butter;  add  cold  tomato  juice,  and 
heat. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  add  hot  tomato  juice  to  the  sauce. 

3.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  tomato  juice,  flour,  and  butter.  Add  to  the  cold 
milk.  Heat. 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  add  the  tomato  sauce  to-  the  hot  milk.  Does  the  addition 
of  flour  lessen  the  tendency  to  curdle?  Can  cream  of  tomato  soup  be  made 
without  the  addition  of  soda? 

Results. 

Cooking  Vegetables  in  Milk 

Experiment  56. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  cooking  vegetables  in  milk.  Use  green  string 
beans,  asparagus,  or  carrots. 


318 


MILK  AND  CHEESE 


1.  To  ^  cup  of  milk  add  Yz  pound  of  string  beans.  Cook  until  tender. 
The  beans  may  be  shredded  in  long  strips  to  hasten  cooking. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  have  the  milk  boiling  before  adding  the  vegetable. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  add  the  vegetable  to  one-third  of  the  boiling  milk.  Add 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  in  small  portions  during  cooking. 

4.  Repeat  1,  but  add  1/32  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  milk. 

5.  Repeat  1,  but  use  cabbage  or  cauliflower. 

Do  any  curdle?  Is  there  any  difference  in  the  size  of  the  curds  formed 
in  cooking  by  the  different  methods?  Why  may  one  vegetable  cause  the  milk  to 
curdle  but  another  vegetable  not  cause  curdling?  If  you  wish  to  add  milk  for 
seasoning  to  a  vegetable  like  asparagus  or  green  beans,  how  would  you  add  it 
to  prevent  curdling?  Is  it  desirable  to  use  soda? 


Number 


Curdle 


Texture  of  milk 


Comments 


Results   and  conclusions. 


Ham  Baked  in  Milk 


Experiment  57. 

To  bake  ham  in  milk. 

1.  Use  mild-cured  ham  in  1-inch  slices.  To  Yi  pound  of  the  ham  1  inch  thick 
add  1  tablespoon  of  medium-brown  sugar,  sprinkling  it  evenly  over  the  ham. 
Add  y2  cup  of  milk  and  bake  at  125°C.  (257°F.)  until  tender.  The  size  of 
the  dish  should  be  such  that  the  milk  barely  covers  or  just  reaches  the  top 
of  the  ham. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  prewarm  the  milk  by  boiling  it  before  adding  to  the  ham. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  add  only  one-third  of  the  milk.  After  baking  30  minutes 
add  the  remaining  milk  in  small  portions  at  intervals  of  a  few  minutes. 

4.  Repeat  1,  but  add  1/32  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  milk. 

5.  Repeat  1,  but  use  evaporated  milk.  Dilute  j4  cup  of  evaporated  milk  with 
j4  cup  of  water  and  add  this  diluted  milk  to  the  ham. 

6.  Repeat  1,  but  bake  the  ham  at  175°C.   (347°F.)   until  tender. 

In  which  experiments  does  the  milk  curdle?  Are  some  curdled  worse  than 
others?  What  is  the  effect  of  a  higher  temperature  upon  curdling?  Compare 
the  flavor  of  ham. 


Numb( 


Texture  of  milk 


Texture  of  meat 


Flavor 


Comments 


Results  and  conclusions. 

The  series  may  be  repeated,  omitting  the  sugar  and  using  pork  chops  or  fish 
instead  of  the  ham.  There  is  less  tendency  to  curdle  with  the  fresh  meat. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE 


319 


Junket  ^-- 

Experiment  58. 

To  determine  the  conditions  most  favorable  for  the  clotting  of  milk  by 
rennin. 

1.  Use  Yi  cup  of  raw  milk  warmed  to  35°  to  40°C.  Add  }i  oi  a  junket 
tablet  that  has  been  powdered  and  ^^  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Stir  to  dissolve. 
Put  the  junket  mixture  into  a  glass  container  or  a  Pyrex  baking  cup.  Let 
stand  at  room  temperature.  Keep  a  record  of  the  time  required  for  setting. 
Determine  when  it  is  set  by  tipping  the  container  slightly  to  one  side. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  use  pasteurized  milk. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  set  in  the  refrigerator  after  adding  the  junket. 

4.  Repeat  1,  but  dissolve  the  junket  in  1  tablespoon  of  water.  Boil,  concen- 
trating the  water  to  1  teaspoon.  Add  to  the  milk  and  sugar. 

5.  Repeat  1,  but  boil  the  milk,  then  cool  to  35°  to  40°C.  before  adding 
the  junket. 

6.  Repeat  1,  but  dilute  the  milk  with  water,  using  34  cup  of  water  and 
34  cup  of  milk. 

7.  Repeat  6,  but  use  cereal  water  instead  of  water  for  diluting  the  milk. 
The  cereal  water  should  be  a  little  thinner  than  the  consistency  of  a  medium 
white  sauce. 

8.  Repeat  1,  but  add  1/16  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  milk. 

9.  Repeat  8,  but  increase  the  soda  to  ^  teaspoon. 

10.  Repeat    1,   but   double    the   amount   of    sugar   using    1 
grams). 


tablespoon    (12.5 

cup  of  milk.  Add 
the  sugar  but  not  the  junket. 

Which  ones  set?  Which  do  not  set?  Explain.  Compare  the  firmness  of  the 
clot  formed  in  the  various  experiments. 


11.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  grated  raw  pineapple  juice  to 


Number 


Clotted 


Texture  of  clot 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Cottage  Cheese 


Experiment  59. 

To  make  cottage  cheese. 

A.  From  sweet  milk. 

1.  To  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  warmed  to  35°  to  40°C.  add  3^  of  a  powdered 
junket  tablet.  Leave  at  room  temperature  until  it  has  set.  Pour  into  a  cloth 
sack  and  let  drain  for  a  few  minutes.  Determine  the  amount  of  cheese 
obtained.  Compare  the  texture  and  flavor  of  the  cheese  with  that  from 
clabbered  milk.  What  is  the  yield  of  cheese? 


320 


MILK  AND  CHEESE 


B.  From  sour  milk. 

1.  Sour  milk  that  has  formed  a  clot  is  called  clabbered  milk.  Boil  1  cup 
of  clabbered  milk  1  minute.  Pour  into  a  cloth  sack  and  drain  for  a  few 
minutes.  What  is  the  yield  of  cheese  obtained? 

2.  To  1  cup  of  clabbered  milk  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Determine  the 
temperature.  Drain  through  a  cloth  sack  for  a  few  minutes  and  determine  the 
yield  of  cheese  obtained. 

3.  Heat  1  cup  of  clabbered  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  whey  separates 
from  the  curd.  Take  the  temperature.  Follow  directions  under   1. 

Compare  the  resulting  cheese  in  texture,  consistency,  and  flavor.  What  is 
the  effect  of  a  high  temperature  upon  curd  of  milk  that  has  been  precipitated 
by  souring?  What  temperature  is  preferable  for  heating  clabbered  milk  to 
make  cottage  cheese?  Which  method  is  preferable?  Compare  with  the  cottage 
cheese  made  from  sweet  milk  and  junket. 


Temperature  to  which  milk 
is  heated 


Yield 


Texture 


Fh 


Comments 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Cheese 


Experiment  60. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  heat  upon  cheddar  cheese. 

A.  The  melting  point. 

1.  Place  some  grated  cheddar  cheese  in  a  test  tube.  To  determine  the  melt- 
ing point  place  a  thermometer  in  the  test  tube.  Melt  the  cheese  by  immersing 
the  test  tube  in  water  and  heating  the  water.  Compare  the  melting  points 
of  several  samples  of  cheddar  cheese.  Notice  the  consistency  of  each  cheese, 
its  dryness,  hardness,  etc.,  before  and  after  melting. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  use  the  Kraft  or  other  varieties  of  cheddar  cheese  that 
have  been  put  in  sealed  or  other  types  of  containers. 

B.  Effect  of  temperatures  above  the  melting  point. 

1.  After  observing  the  consistency  and  texture  of  the  cheese  from  Al  and 
A2,  put  the  tubes  in  warm  water  and  heat  to  temperatures  above  the  melting 
point.  Notice  all  changes  that  occur. 

C.  Combining  the  cheese  with  milk. 

1.  Combine  about  2  level  tablespoons  (14  grams)  of  grated  cheese  with  34 
cup  of  milk  (60  grams).  Heat  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler.  Note  the 
melting  point  of  the  cheese.  Continue  heating  and  describe  the  changes  that 
occur  in  the  cheese-like  mixture. 

Does  the  dryness,  texture,  or  fat  content  have  any  effect  upon  the  melting 
point?  From  the  results  obtained,  what  would  you  conclude  about  combining 
cheese  with  other  foods?  Should  cheese  be  heated  directly  over  or  under  the 
fire?  If  so  heated,  what  temperature  should  be  used?  Should  cheese  be  covered 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 


321 


with  sauce  and  bread  crumbs  in  macaroni   and  cheese  before  putting  in  the 
oven?  Why? 


Sample 

of 
cheese 


Melting 
point 


Texture  of 

cheese  before 

melting 


Effect  of 

melting  and 

heat 


Comments 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Welsh  Rarebit 


Experiment  61. 

To  determine  the  most  satisfactory  method  of  combining  ingredients  for 
Welsh  rarebit. 

1.  Prepare  a  medium  white  sauce  using: 

Milk  ]4.  cup  122     grams 

Flour  ]4  tablespoon  3.5  grams 

Butter         )/2.  tablespoon  7     grams 

Remove  from  the  fire  and  cool  to  40°C.  Add  J4  cup  (28  grams)  of  grated 
cheese  to  the  sauce.  Stir  with  spoon  or  beat  with  rotary  egg  beater  until  the 
cheese  is  melted  and  blended  with  the  sauce.  Place  in  top  of  double  boiler  and 
heat  slowly  to  serving  temperature. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  add  the  cheese  to  the  hot  sauce. 

3.  Combine  Yz  cup  of  milk  and  1  egg  (48  grams).  Add  ^  cup  (28  grams) 
of  grated  cheese  and  stir. 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  add  the  cheese  to  the  milk.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler  until 
the  cheese  melts.  Add  the  beaten  egg  and  cook  until  the  mixture  thickens. 

Compare  the  results  for  consistency,  flavor,  smoothness,  and  ease  of  making. 
Does  the  consistency  of  the  cheese  before  its  addition  to  the  milk  have  any 
influence  upon  the  ease  of  blending  with  the  milk?  What  types  of  cheese  blend 
most  readily  with  the  milk?  If  grated  cheese  that  does  not  blend  well  with 
the  milk  is  soaked  in  the  milk  before  heating,  would  this  aid  the  ease  of 
blending? 

Cheese  Souffle 


Experiment  62. 

To  determine  a  satisfactory  method  of  combining  and  baking  cheese  souflEle. 

Recipe : 

Butter 

3  tablespoons 

42  grams 

Flour 

2  tablespoons 

14  grams      - 

Milk 

y2  cup 

122  grams 

Egg  yolks 

3 

54  grams 

•    Cheese,  grated 

K  cup 

56  grams 

Salt 

yi  teaspoon 

Egg  whites 

3 

90  grams 

322  MILK  AND  CHEESE 

Directions  for  mixing: 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  the  flour  and  salt  and  blend  with  the  butter.  Add  the 
milk  and  bring  to  boiling,  stirring  continuously.  Remove  from  the  stove  and 
beat  the  egg  yolks  thoroughly.  Add  egg  yolks  to  the  white  sauce  and  blend. 
Add  the  grated  cheese  and  mix  thoroughly,  using  a  spoon  or  a  rotary  egg 
beater.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  pour  in  baking  dish  buttered  on 
bottom  only. 

A.  The  time  of  baking. 

Prepare  the  whole  or  1^  times  the  recipe  of  whatever  amount  is  necessary 
for  the  size  baking  dishes  used.  After  mixing,  divide,  putting  equal  portions 
in  three  dishes.  If  possible  set  all  three  dishes  in  a  large  pan  in  the  oven.  Pour 
boiling  water  around  the  dishes  and  bake.  Oven  temperature  175°C.  (347°F.). 
The  time  of  baking  may  need  to  be  varied,  time  given  being  suggestive,  because 
the  time  will  vary  with  the  quantity  of  water  poured  around  the  baking 
dishes.  The  souffles  should  be  baked  until  little  or  no  shrinkage  occurs  on 
removal  from  the  oven. 

1.  Bake  40  minutes. 

2.  Bake  50  minutes. 

3.  Bake  60  minutes. 

B.  The   temperature   of   baking. 

Follow  directions  given  under  A.  What  modification  of  time  will  need  to 
be  made? 

1.  Bake  one  part  at  160°C.   (320°F.). 

2.  Bake  a  second  part  at   175°C.    (347°F.). 

3.  Bake  a  third  part  at  190°C.   (374°F.). 

C.  Compare  baking  the  souffles  in  dish  surrounded  by  hot  water  and  with- 
out water.  Use  temperatures  and  time  found  best  under  A  and  B.  What  modi- 
fication of  time  will  need  to  be  made  for  those  baked  without  water?  Which 
conducts  heat  more  readily,  water  or  air? 

D.  The  method  and  temperature  of  combining  ingredients. 
Bake  at  temperature  and  time  found  best  under  A,  B,  and  C. 

1.  Follow  directions  for  mixing  under  A. 

2.  Reverse  the  order  and  temperatures  for  adding  the  cheese  and  eg^  yolk. 
Add  the  cheese  to  the  slightly  cooled  white  sauce.  Mix,  then  add  the  beaten 
egg  yolks. 

3.  Add  both  the  egg  yolks  and  cheese  to  the  slightly  cooled  white  sauce. 
Mix. 

Compare  the  volume,  tendency  to  shrink,  and  texture  of  the  souffles.  What 
temperature  should  the  white  sauce  be  when  the  cheese  is  added?  Would  this 
vary  with  different  kinds  of  cheese,  that  is  loaf,  processed,  and  cheddar?  Would 
it  vary  with  degree  of  ripeness  or  dryness  of  the  cheese?  What  is  a  desirable 
method  of  making  and  baking  cheese  souffle? 


CHAPTER    X 


EGG  COOKERY 


Structure  and  composition.  The  shell  forms  about  11  per  cent  of 
the  egg  and  is  largely  composed  of  calcium  carbonate  with  some  mag- 
nesium carbonate,  calcium  and  magnesium  phosphates,  and  organic  matter. 


Century  Photos,  Inc. 


Fig.   32. — Showing   standing   up   quality   of  yolk    and    white    of    a   fresh    and    a 
deteriorated  egg. 

Within  the  shell  is  the  shell  membrane,  a  thin,  semi-permeable  membrane 
made  up  of  two  layers,  the  inner  and  outer.  After  the  egg  is  laid,  its  con- 
tents cool  and  shrink.  The  air  cell  at  the  large  end  of  the  egg  is  formed 
during  this  shrinkage  by  separation  of  the  two  membranes. 

For  cookery  purposes  the  white  and  yolk  are  the  important  parts  of  the 
egg.  The  white  is  clear,  transparent,  and  jelly-like.  It  composes  about  57 
per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  whole  egg.  The  layer  next  the  shell  is  a  thin 

323 


324 


EGG  COOKERY 


soft  white,  its  relative  proportion  varying  somewhat  at  time  of  laying. 
Fig.  32.  Next  comes  a  layer  of  rather  thick,  viscous  white,  containing  a 
larger  proportion  of  mucin  than  the  thin  white.  Beyond  this  is  a  small 
layer  of  thin  white  surrounding  the  yolk.  Schaible,  Moore,  and  Davidson 
say  that  the  thick,  "firm  white  is  of  laminated  structure,  composed  of 
concentric  layers  containing  mucin  fibers."  If  a  freshly  laid  egg  is  broken 


Courtesy  of  Institute  of  American  Poultry  Industries  and 
P.  J.  Schaible,  J.  M.  Moore,  and  J.  A.  Davidson,  Michigan 

Fig.  33. — Showing  the  laminated  structure  of  firm   egg  white,  yolk   removed. 

into  a  large  quantity  of  distilled  water  (the  thick  white  having  been  slit 
with  scissors  on  one  side  to  remove  yolk)  and  allowed  to  stand,  the  mucin 
and  probably  some  globulin  are  precipitated  at  the  edge  of  the  cut  surface. 
Six  or  more  sheets  or  layers,  one  over  the  other,  can  be  distinctly  seen. 
Fig.  33. 

The  chalazae  are  dense  cord-like  strands  of  white  substance,  one  on  each 
side  of  the  yolk,  which  anchor  the  yolk  near  the  center  of  the  egg.  They 
allow  the  yolk  to  revolve.  Being  dense  the  chalazae  are  not  broken  down 
readily  when  the  egg  is  beaten,  hence  they  are  often  caught  on  the  blades 
or  wires  of  the  egg  beater. 


COLOR  OF  SHELL  AND  YOLK 


325 


The  yolk  forms  about  32  per  cent  of  the  whole  egg.  It  is  separated  from 
the  white  by  a  yolk  sac,  called  the  vitelline  membrane.  The  yolk  is  made 
up  of  layers.  See  Fig.  34.  The  fat  is  more  concentrated  around  the  germ 
spot;  hence  its  specific  gravity  is  less  and  when  the  egg  is  turned  the  yolk 
rotates  so  that  the  germ  spot  is  always  uppermost.  In  eggs  of  average  size 
the  white  usually  averages  about  30  grams  and  the  yolk  about  18  grams. 

Composition.  The  composition  of  the  white  is  approximately  86.2  per 
cent  water;   12.3  per  cent  protein;  0.2  per  cent  fat;  and  0.6  per  cent 


Blastoderm 


Air  Cell 


Xhalaza 


Chalaza 


White  Yolk 


Yolk 

Vitelline 
Membrane 


Dense  Albumen 


Fluid  Albumen 


I 


L Layers  of  White  Yolk 

Courtesy  of  Institute  of  American  Poultry  Industries. 
Fig.  34. — Diagram  showing  internal  structure  of  an  egg. 

mineral.  The  composition  of  the  yolk  is  about  49.5  per  cent  water;  33.3 
per  cent  fats,  including  lecithin  and  cholesterol;  15.7  per  cent  proteins;  and 
1.0  per  cent  minerals. 

Color  of  shell  and  yolk.-  The  color  of  the  shell  is  determined  by 
inheritance,  certain  breeds  laying  white,  others  brown-colored  shells.  The 
Barnaveldters  lay  eggs  with  nearly  chocolate-brown  shells. 

The  coloring  matter  of  the  yolk,  according  to  Palmer,  Mattikow,  and 
others  is  xanthophyll,  with  a  small  proportion  of  a  carotene-like  pigment. 
The  intensity  of  the  yolk  color  is  determined  by  the  amount  of  xanthophyll 
in  the  food  of  the  hen.  The  color  of  the  yolk  may  vary  from  a  very  pale, 
almost  white  yolk,  through  deeper  yellows  to  orange  and  finally  a  deep- 
red-orange.  Some  feeds  may  produce  red-colored  yolks.  Some  attempts 
have  been  made  to  work  out  color  charts,  giving  each  shade  a  number ;  but 
most  of  these  are  only  tentative.  It  is  an  advantage  for  bakers  and  mayon- 
naise manufacturers  to  obtain  yolks  of  uniform  color  to  insure  uniformity 


326  EGG  COOKERY 

of  color  of  their  products.  A  small  number  of  manufacturers  at  present  do 
specify  the  color  of  the  egg  yolks  when  they  place  their  contract  for  them. 
Reaction  of  eggs.  1  he  egg  white  is  alkaline.  Sharp  found  that  the 
pH  of  the  white  varies  from  7.6  to  9.7,  whereas  the  yolk  of  fresh  eggs 
averages  pH  6.0  or  slightly  lower.  The  pH  of  both  the  white  and  yolk 
increases  with  age  because  of  the  loss  of  carbon  dioxide.  Sharp  and  Powell 
state  that  since  the  loss  of  some  carbon  dioxide  cannot  be  prevented  before 
the  pH  is  taken,  that  a  pH  of  7.6  is  probably  too  high  for  freshly  laid  eggs. 
With  further  loss  of  carbon  dioxide  the  pH  may  increase  to  9.5.  Then, 
probably  owing  to  break  down  of  some  of  the  egg  protein,  the  pH  decreases. 
The  />H  of  the  yolk  may  reach  6.8,  but  changes  more  gradually  than  that 
of  the  white.  When  the  whole  egg  is  beaten  so  that  the  white  and  yolk  are 
mixed,  a  pH.  intermediate  between  that  of  the  white  and  yolk  is  obtained. 

Egg  Quality 

The  term  "quality"  as  applied  to  eggs  refers  ultimately  to  their  desir- 
ability for  human  consumption.  When  an  egg  deteriorates  its  cooking 
qualities  are  altered.  It  is  commonly  accepted  that  an  egg  of  high  quality 
is  better  for  poaching,  boiling,  and  frying  than  one  of  inferior  quality.  At 
present,  for  trade  use,  eggs  of  quality  are  defined  as  those  having  a  rela- 
tively high  percentage  of  thick  to  thin  white,  and  a  high  percentage  of  yolk 
solids.  These  eggs,  when  broken  on  a  flat  surface,  do  not  tend  to  flatten 
out  as  quickly  nor  to  so  great  an  extent  as  eggs  of  poorer  quality.  See 
Fig.  32. 

Tests  for  quality.  A  candler's  grading  of  the  egg  is  based  largely  on 
the  size  of  the  air  cell  and  the  visibility  of  the  yolk.  Perry  found  that  yolk 
color,  ascertained  after  breaking  the  egg,  influences  the  yolk  shadow  and 
the  3'olk  movement,  as  determined  in  candling.  The  dark  yolks  cause  a 
darker  shadow  and  increase  the  apparent  movement,  though  the  percentage 
of  thick  albumen  did  not  influence  the  yolk  shadow  and  movement.  The 
air  cell  increases  in  size  with  loss  of  water  from  the  egg.  The  less  the 
humidity  of  the  air  in  which  the  egg  is  stored,  the  greater  the  loss  of  water. 
When  water  is  lost  to  the  outside  air  the  total  solids  of  the  egg  increase. 
The  changes  in  the  cooking  quality  of  the  white  and  yolk  may  not  be  so 
detrimental  as  when  the  w\ater  loss  is  prevented.  Since  the  size  of  the  air 
cell  increases  with  the  loss  of  water,  the  humidity  of  storage  rooms  is 
usually  controlled  to  prevent  a  large  moisture  loss.  But  other  changes,  more 
detrimental  to  the  quality  of  the  egg  than  water  loss,  may  occur. 

Almquist,  Givens,  and  Klose  say  that  the  transmission  of  light  varies 
for  different  layers  of  egg  albumen,  being  lowest  for  the  firmest  or  gelat- 
inous layers.  They  find  the  transmission  of  light  to  be  correlated  with  the 
percentage  of  mucin  in  the  albumen.  In  addition  it  varies  with  the  tem- 
perature and  pH,  both  of  which  affect  the  physical  condition  of  the  mucin. 


FACTORS  AFFECTING  QUALITY  OF  EGGS  327 

At  lower  temperatures  and  at  lower  pH  the  translucency  of  the  mucin 
fibers  is  lessened. 

Wilcke  used  a  torsion  pendulum  to  measure  externally  the  interior 
viscosity  of  an  egg  and  from  observations  worked  out  an  index  K,  which 
was  a  measure  of  the  combined  viscosity  of  the  entire  contents  of  the  egg. 
He  found  that  the  K  value  increased  with  increased  weight  of  the  eggs, 
but  that  the  rations  used  did  not  affect  the  K  values  of  the  eggs  produced 
by  hens  on  the  rations  used  in  his  study.  The  index,  K,  is  a  characteristic 
of  the  individual  hen. 

Standing-up  quality  of  the  yolk.  Sharp  has  worked  out  a  system  of 
determining  the  quality  of  the  egg  from  the  standing-up  ability  of  the 
yolk.  If  a  fresh  egg  of  good  quality  is  broken  out  of  the  shell,  the  yolk 
stands  up.  But  as  the  interior  quality  deteriorates  the  yolk  flattens  out 
more  and  more  readily  until  a  stage  is  reached  at  which  the  yolk  membrane 
breaks,  no  matter  how  carefully  handled,  when  the  shell  is  broken.  Both 
the  time  the  yolk  is  on  the  dish  and  its  temperature  affect  the  extent  of 
flattening,  the  flattening  being  greater  with  longer  time  and  a  higher 
temperature.  By  dividing  the  height  of  the  yolk  by  its  width  a  numerical 
index  is  obtained  that  indicates  the  quality  of  the  egg.  The  measurements 
of  the  yolk,  after  being  freed  of  the  white,  taken  5  minutes  after  it  is  laid 
on  the  Petri  dish  and  at  a  temperature  of  25°C.,  give  an  average  value  of 
about  0.41  for  eggs  3  to  4  hours  old.  With  deterioration  of  the  egg  the 
index  becomes  less,  and  breaking  occurs  when  the  index  falls  to  about  0.25. 

The  standing-up  ability  of  the  white  may  also  be  used  to  determine 
egg  quality. 

Vitelline  membrane  strength.  Another  method  for  determining  quality  is 
to  measure  the  strength  of  the  vitelline  membrane.  The  average  thickness 
of  this  membrane  has  been  reported  to  be  about  64/100,000  of  an  inch.  In 
a  fresh  egg  its  bursting  strength  is  about  0.065  pounds  per  square  inch. 
With  deterioration  the  strength  of  the  membrane  decreases  and  the  yolk 
breaks  easily  when  the  strength  has  fallen  to  a  little  over  half  this  value. 

Factors  affecting  quality  of  eggs.  Fresh-laid  eggs  vary  in  propor- 
tions and  viscosity  of  the  thin  and  thick  white.  The  yolk  membrane  also 
varies  in  strength.  These  variations  are  probably  due  to  feed,  the  season 
of  the  year,  the  period  of  the  laying  cycle,  and  individual  characteristics  of 
the  hen.  It  has  already  been  mentioned  that  Wilcke  found  that  the  rations 
did  not  influence  the  viscosity  of  the  egg  in  his  investigations,  but  he  states 
his  work  does  not  rule  out  this  factor.  Lorenz  and  Almquist  report  that 
the  percentage  of  firm  white  is  lowered  by  higher  air  temperature  during 
the  hours  immediately  after  the  egg  is  laid,  resulting  in  an  apparent  seasonal 
variation  in  internal  egg  quality.  The  poorer  quality  of  eggs  obtained  during 
summer  months  is  attributed  to  the  higher  temperature  during  this  season. 
The  finest  quality  eggs  are  claimed  to  be  those  laid  in  the  spring,  which 
coincides  with  the  time  of  greatest  production. 


328  EGG  COOKERY 

Preservation  and  deterioration  of  eggs.  Sharp  states  that  "as  soon 
as  the  egg  leaves  the  hen  it  begins  to  decline  in  interior  quality  and  the  best 
we  can  hope  to  do  is  to  retard  these  changes  as  much  as  possible.  They 
cannot  be  stopped,  they  can  only  be  retarded.  An  egg  a  week  old  may  have 
deteriorated  more  in  quality  than  an  egg  properly  cared  for  which  is  a 
year  old." 

Eggs  are  preserved  by  (1)  storing  at  low  temperatures,  (2)  by  freezing, 
(3)  by  drying,  and   (4)  by  oil  dipping. 

Storing  at  low  temperatures.  In  commercial  storage  the  temperature, 
humidity,  and  air  currents  are  controlled,  the  last  to  prevent  mold  growth. 
A  high  moisture  content  in  the  storage  air  lessens  the  amount  of  the  water 
evaporated  from  the  egg,  but  encourages  mold  growth.  The  storage  tem- 
perature is  usually  maintained  at  29°  to  30°F.  In  addition  chemical  control 
of  the  atmosphere  is  frequently  practised  in  the  storage  rooms.  Stewart  and 
Sharp  state  that  at  30°F.,  if  0.6  per  cent  carbon  dioxide  is  used,  the  /)H 
of  the  egg  white  will  be  maintained  at  8.0  to  8.1.  If  the  concentration  of 
carbon  dioxide  is  too  high,  the  white  becomes  turbid,  but  loses  this  turbidity 
after  loss  of  some  carbon  dioxide  from  the  egg  on  breaking. 

Most  of  the  eggs  placed  in  low  temperature  storage  are  stored  during 
March,  April,  May,  and  June.  More  than  half  of  the  annual  supply  of 
eggs  is  laid  during  these  four  months.  Withdrawal  of  eggs  from  storage 
usually  begins  in  August,  reaches  its  peak  about  November,  and  the  supply 
is  generally  exhausted  by  January. 

Frozen  eggs.  The  use  of  frozen  eggs  has  increased  very  rapidly  in  the  last 
10  years.  The  eggs  are  broken  out  of  the  shell  for  freezing,  which  gives 
an  opportunity  for  increasing  contamination  with  bacteria.  If  eggs  are  frozen 
quickly  after  being  broken,  little  bacterial  growth  takes  place.  Swenson 
and  James  found  that  fewer  organisms  survived  quick  freezing  than  delayed 
slow  freezing.  They  also  report  that  the  addition  of  carbon  dioxide  to  the 
egg  batter  just  prior  to  freezing  was  detrimental  to  survival  of  bacteria. 
Eggs  are  frozen  whole,  the  whites  and  yolks  being  mixed  by  beating.  The 
whites  and  yolks  are  also  frozen  separately.  Freezing  alters  the  physical 
characteristics  of  the  yolk,  as  it  is  more  viscous  after  defrosting.  Hence  to 
prevent  its  becoming  so  stiff  and  gummy  that  it  does  not  mix  readily  with 
other  ingredients,  before  being  frozen  it  is  beaten  and  a  small  percentage 
of  salt,  sugar,  particularly  dextrose,  or  some  suitable  edible  ingredient  is 
often  added.  Some  of  these  processes  are  patented,  and  the  proportion  of 
ingredients  added  as  well  as  the  manner  of  incorporation  are  not  generally 
known. 

Frozen  whole  eggs,  egg  yolks,  and  egg  whites  are  usually  prepared  in 
30-pound  lots,  though  some  10-pound  lots  are  frozen.  A  pound  of  frozen 
whole  eggs  is  equivalent  to  about  10  fresh  eggs.  As  yet  frozen  eggs  are 
not  on  the  retail  market. 

Drying.  The  use  of  dried  eggs  is  decreasing  in  the  United  States,  the 
frozen  eggs  taking  their  place  in  many  products. 


I 


FACTORS  CAUSING  DETERIORATION  329 

Oil  dipping.  Oil  dipping,  shell  treating,  or  processing  of  eggs  is  increas- 
ing rapidly.  This  process  consists  of  dipping  the  egg  in  some  kind  of  oil  to 
seal  the  pores  of  the  egg  shell,  thus  retaining  the  carbon  dioxide  within 
the  egg. 

Swenson,  Slocum,  and  James  report  that  a  special  white,  odorless,  taste- 
less mineral  oil  of  right  viscosity  and  low  enough  pour-point  (40°F.)  has 
been  developed  to  be  applied  to  the  shell  at  temperatures  of  60°  to  80°F. 
They  also  state  that  oiling  shell  eggs,  especially  by  the  vacuum-carbon 
dioxide  method,  tends  to  maintain  the  pH  of  the  egg  white  at  7.9  =^  0.3, 
which  is  below  the  optimum  for  proteolytic  activity.  Sharp  and  Wagenen 
state  that  if  eggs  are  oil  dipped  fairly  soon  after  they  are  laid,  the  white 
will  have  a  pH  value  of  8.0  or  less  at  the  end  of  the  storage  period.  If  oil 
dipping  is  to  be  of  value  in  preserving  the  eggs  they  must  be  dipped  before 
too  much  carbon  dioxide  has  escaped. 

Factors  causing  deterioration.  The  causes  for  deterioration  of  eggs 
may  be  listed  as  follows:  (1)  action  of  the  enzyme  trypsin,  (2)  alkaline 
hydrolysis,  and  (3)  chemical  changes  and  changes  due  to  bacterial  action. 
The  changes  brought  about  by  these  factors  may  be  speeded  up  or  retarded 
by  temperature  and  reaction. 

Enzyme  action.  Balls  and  Swenson  report  that  trypsin,  a  proteolytic 
enzyme,  is  found  only  in  the  thick  white.  Its  action,  i.e.,  protein  splitting, 
which  reduces  the  proportion  of  thick  white  in  the  egg,  is  speeded  up  by 
increase  in  temperature,  its  greatest  activity  occurring  near  body  tempera- 
ture. Sharp  has  found  that  the  weakening  of  the  yolk  membrane  is  greater 
in  2  days  at  98.6°F.  for  eggs  stored  in  air  containing  ordinary  amounts  of 
carbon  dioxide  and  at  80  per  cent  humidity  than  after  5  days  of  storage 
at  77°,  or  20  days  of  storage  at  60.8°,  or  100  days  of  storage  at  35.6°F. 
Likewise  a  />H  of  about  9.25  may  be  reached  in  2  days  at  37°C.,  in  5  days 
at  16°,  and  in  10  days  at  2°C.  Or,  in  other  words,  carbon  dioxide  escapes 
more  slowly  and  enzyme  action  is  also  slower  at  lower  temperatures.  The 
reaction  of  trypsin  is  also  speeded  up  as  the  reaction  becomes  more  alkaline, 
the  optimum  activity  according  to  Swenson,  Slocum,  and  James  occurring 
at  pH  8.4  to  8.8.  Thus  with  loss  of  carbon  dioxide  from  the  egg,  the  action 
of  the  trypsin  is  increased.  Balls  and  Swenson  found  that  the  action  of  the 
trypsin  is  decidedly  speeded  up  by  injecting  enterokinase  into  the  thick 
white,  which  also  gives  proof  that  the  enzyme  is  trypsin,  since  enterokinase 
activates  only  trypsin.  The  thin  white  contains  an  anti-trypsin  which  inhibits 
the  action  of  the  trypsin.  Therefore,  when  the  thick  and  thin  white  are 
mixed  together  the  action  of  the  trypsin  is  inhibited.  This  mixing  of  the 
thick  and  thin  white  before  freezing  may  be  one  reason  for  the  claim  made 
by  many  users  of  frozen  eggs  that  frozen  eggs  are  superior  to  and  more 
uniform  in  quality  than  fresh  eggs.  Balls  and  Swenson  state  the  amount 
of  trypsin  varies  greatly  in  individual  eggs  of  the  same  lot. 

Alkaline  hydrolysis.  Alkaline  hydrolysis  of  proteins,  the  breaking  down 
of  the  protein  into  smaller  units,  is  also  speeded  up  as  the  egg  becomes  more 


330  EGG  COOKERY 

alkaline  by  loss  of  carbon  dioxide  and  as  the  temperature  increases.  Alkaline 
hydrolysis  of  protein  occurs  independently  of  enzyme  action. 

Chemical  changes  and  changes  due  to  bacterial  action.  Slow  chemical 
breakdown  may  cause  off  flavors  and  changes  in  eggs,  but  true  rotting  of 
eggs  is  caused  by  microorganisms. 

Eggs  which  are  infected  with  a  large  number  of  molds  and  bacteria 
ordinarily  do  not  keep  well.  Microorganisms  cannot  always  be  detected  in 
eggs  in  the  shell,  yet  the  eggs  deteriorate  in  storage.  But,  in  general,  eggs 
with  clean  shells  are  comparatively  free  from  bacteria.  Reetger  found  that 
not  over  4  per  cent,  and  usually  a  smaller  number,  of  eggs  with  clean  shells 
were  infected  with  bacteria.  Egg  shells  vary  in  porosity  and  some  eggs 
have  a  few  very  large  pores.  Infection  with  bacteria  is  easier  through  these 
large  pores.  Eggs  having  dirt  on  the  shell  are  most  easily  infected.  Bryant 
and  Sharp  report  that  washing  of  such  eggs  is  not  the  cause  for  deteriora- 
tion, if  they  are  handled  properly  after  washing.  The  deterioration  of 
washed  eggs  is  caused  by  bacterial  infection  of  the  egg  from  the  dirt  on 
the  shell. 

Changes  in  eggs  with  deterioration.  The  most  important  changes 
occurring  in  eggs  during  deterioration  are :  ( 1 )  the  thick  white  becomes 
less  viscous  and  jelly-like,  gradually  changing  to  a  thin  watery  white.  (2) 
Water  passes  from  the  white  to  the  yolk  increasing  the  size  and  fluid 
content  of  the  yolk,  thus  decreasing  the  yolk  solids.  In  addition  the  yolk 
membrane  weakens  and,  if  the  weakening  has  progressed  far  enough,  breaks 
when  the  shell  is  opened.  (3)  Loss  of  moisture  usually  occurs.  (4)  The 
egg  may  absorb  foreign  or  off  odors.  (5)  With  continuous  loss  of  carbon 
dioxide  the  alkalinity  of  the  egg  increases. 

Properties  of  Egg  Proteins 

The  extensive  use  of  eggs  in  cookery  is  made  possible  by  their  protein 
content.  The  protein  coagulates  during  heating,  thus  bringing  about 
thickening  as  in  custards  or  the  binding  of  pieces  of  food  together  as  in 
croquettes.  The  proteins  of  the  egg  are  good  emulsifying  agents.  The  pro- 
teins form  elastic  films  when  beaten,  thus  incorporating  air,  which  is  used 
as  leavening  in  such  products  as  angel  cakes  and  souffles.  The  elasticity  of 
the  egg  protein  is  also  important  in  products  such  as  popovers  where  the 
egg  stretches  with  expansion  of  steam,  and  later  coagulates  to  aid  in  form- 
ing the  framework  of  the  popover. 

The  proteins  of  the  egg.  The  proteins  of  the  white  are  ovoalbumin, 
ovoglobulin,  and  ovomucin.  There  may  be  small  amounts  of  other  proteins 
and  it  is  also  possible  that  each  protein  is  made  up  of  component  fractions. 
Hughes  and  Scott  give  the  relative  proportions  of  the  proteins  in  the  three 
portions  of  the  white  as  shown  in  Table  41. 

The  principal  protein  of  the  yolk  is  ovovitellin.  Sell,  Olsen,  and  Kremers 


ISOELECTRIC  POINT  OF  EGG  PROTEINS 


331 


TABLE  41 

Percentage  of  the  Total  Nitrogen  Contributed  by  Each  of  the  Three 
Protein  Fractions  {Hughes  and  Scott) 


Outer  thin  layer 
of  egg  white 


Thick  layer 
of  white 


Inner  layer  of 
thin  white 


Ovomucin .  . 
Ovoglobulin 
Ovoalbumin 


1-91 

3.66 

94.43 


5.11 

5.59 

89.18 


1.10 

9.89 

89.29 


separated  salted  egg  yolk  into  a  soluble  lipoid  fraction  and  an  insoluble 
residue.  The  latter  consisted  of  sodium  chloride  and  the  protein-like  mate- 
rial of  the  yolk.  This  residue  they  called  lecitho-protein.  It  composed  about 
32.5  per  cent  of  the  yolk.  This  protein  fraction  contained  nearly  one-half 
the  total  lecithin  of  the  yolk. 

Solubility  o£  the  proteins.  The  albumin  of  egg  forms  a  sol  with 
water  and  dilute  salt  solutions.  The  globulin  forms  a  sol  in  dilute  salt  solu- 
tions, but  not  in  pure  water.  The  globulin  composes  about  6.5  per  cent  of 
the  total  proteins  of  the  egg. 

Egg-white  proteins  belong  to  the  group  of  hydrophilic  colloids.  Egg 
white  and  water  are  mutually  soluble.  Usually  the  addition  of  1  table- 
spoon of  water  to  an  egg  white,  unless  it  is  very  watery,  increases  its  ex- 
tensibility, and  when  the  egg  white  is  whipped  a  larger  volume  is  obtained. 
But  with  increasing  quantities  of  water  a  stage  is  reached  at  which  the 
egg  white  loses  too  much  of  its  rigidity  and  will  no  longer  retain  air  in 
small  bubbles,  the  bubbles  being  large  and  floating  on  the  more  liquid 
part. 

The  ovovitellin  of  the  egg  yolk  is  combined  with  phosphorus  and  be- 
longs to  the  phosphoprotein  group.  It  is  insoluble  in  water  but  is  soluble 
in  dilute  salt  solutions  and  in  dilute  alkalies. 

Isoelectric  point  of  egg  proteins.  Loeb  has  reported  the  isoelectric 
point  of  egg  albumin  as  ^H  4.8.  Some  investigators  give  />H  4.7  as  the 
isoelectric  point.  Above  the  isoelectric  point  the  albumin  combines  with 
bases  to  form  salts  like  sodium  albuminate;  below  the  isoelectric  point  it 
combines  with  acids  to  form  salts  like  albumin  acetate,  citrate,  or  tartrate. 
Above  the  isoelectric  point  the  protein  is  negatively  charged ;  below,  it  is 
positively  charged.  Since  the  reaction  of  the  egg  white  is  about  /»H  7.6  to 
9,  there  will  probably  be  few  combinations  of  egg  white  with  alkalies  or 
alkaline  salts  in  food  preparation  that  will  increase  its  alkalinity.  Many 
combinations  are  made  that  increase  its  acidity.  For  example,  the  addition 
of  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  salt  with  an  acid  reaction,  to  a  cup  of 


332  EGG  COOKERY 

egg  whites,  proportions  often  used  in  angel  food  cakes,  increases  the  acidity 
and  lowers  the  pH,  often  to  about  7.5  or  7.0.  As  the  proportion  of  cream 
of  tartar  is  increased,  the  pH  is  lowered  to  a  greater  extent.  The  addition 
of  fruit  juices  and  fruit  pulp  to  egg  whites  to  make  fruit  whip,  souffles,  or 
similar  desserts,  increases  the  acidity.  When  1  to  2  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice 
are  added  to  an  egg  white  the  pH  is  lower  than  4.8. 

No  record  could  be  found  in  the  literature  of  the  isoelectric  point  of 
ovovitellin.  When  lemon  juice  is  added  to  egg  yolk,  the  mixture  is  thickest 
at  a  pH  between  4  and  5,  as  if  the  greatest  tendency  to  curdle  is  at  this 
point.  This  might  indicate  that  the  isoelectric  point  of  the  egg  yolk  proteins 
is  between  pH  4  and  5.  This  greatest  thickening  occurs  with  about  5  cc.  of 
lemon  juice  to  an  egg  yolk. 

The  addition  of  an  acid  like  vinegar  or  fruit  juice  to  the  white  and  yolk 
beaten  together  tends  to  curdle  the  mixture.  This  occurs  when  the  acidity 
is  in  the  vicinity  of  the  isoelectric  point.  When  sufficient  acid  is  added  to 
lower  the  pH  below  the  isolectric  point  of  the  egg  proteins,  and  if  the  salt 
formed,  such  as  protein  citrate,  is  soluble,  the  coagulum  dissolves  and  the 
mixture  becomes  smooth.  With  the  exception  of  salad  dressings  and  a  few 
sauces,  there  are  probably  not  many  instances  in  which  enough  acid  is 
added  to  lower  the  pH  of  the  food  mixture  below  the  isoelectric  point  of 
the  egg  protein. 

Peptization  of  egg  proteins.  Peptization  of  egg  proteins  increases 
the  tenderness  of  some  products.  Freundlich  states  that  peptization  of  pro- 
teins is  frequently  brought  about  by  low  concentrations  of  electrolytes, 
though  to  accomplish  this  the  electrolyte  must  be  intimately  mixed  with 
the  substance  to  be  peptized.  The  hydroxyl,  citrate,  acetate,  and  tar- 
trate ions  are  effective  for  peptizing  egg  proteins.  For  example,  when 
tomato  or  lemon  juice  is  added  to  egg  in  amounts  to  bring  the  pH  of  the 
egg  slightly  above  or  about  the  isoelectric  point  of  egg  albumin,  the  tender- 
ness of  omelets  is  definitely  increased.  In  some  instances  peptization  of  the 
egg  proteins  is  detrimental.  An  example  of  this  is  the  thinning  of  salad 
dressings,  thickened  with  only  egg  yolk,  when  heated  above  the  temperature 
at  which  optimum  coagulation  occurs. 

Sugars  (sucrose,  dextrose,  and  levulose)  through  peptization  tend  to 
prevent  coagulation  of  egg  protein. 

Denaturation.  Denaturation,  by  which  soluble  proteins  are  rendered 
insoluble,  of  egg  proteins  is  brought  about  in  a  variety  of  ways,  including 
the  action  of  acids,  salts,  heat,  mechanical  agitation,  and  radiation.  Mechan- 
ical agitation  or  beating  of  egg  white,  as  well  as  the  tendency  of  proteins 
in  surfaces  to  form  films,  causes  partial  denaturation  of  the  egg  proteins. 
Sugar  tends  to  prevent  this  denaturation. 

The  theories  for  heat  coagulation  have  been  considered  in  Chapter  I. 
But,  however  the  process  of  coagulation  is  brought  about,  the  coagulation 
temperature,  the  time  required  for  coagulation,  and  the  factors  that  cause 


HEAT  COAGULATION  OF  EGG  PROTEINS  333 

variation  in  coagulation  temperature  are  of  interest  in  egg  cookery,  because 
they  determine  the  temperature  to  which  certain  dishes,  such  as  custards 
and  cooked  salad  dressings,  may  be  heated.  If  heated  beyond  this  point, 
separation  into  solid  and  liquid  may  result  and  curdling  occurs,  or  the  salad 
dressing  may  become  thinner. 

Coagulation  temperature  of  egg  white.  Undiluted  egg  white  coagu- 
lates at  about  60 °C.  or  becomes  jelly-like  at  this  temperature.  Coagulation 
may  start  at  a  slightly  lower  temperature,  but  the  amount  coagulated  at 
the  lower  temperature  depends  on  how  long  the  egg  is  held  at  that  point. 
In  coagulating,  the  egg  white  changes  from  a  clear,  transparent  mass  to  a 
white  and  opaque  one.  If  the  egg  white  is  heated  slowly,  a  point  is  reached 
— about  62°C. — at  which  it  will  not  flow  in  a  test  tube.  It  is  still  firmer 
at  64°  to  65  °C.  In  cooking,  the  temperature  is  seldom  held  a  long  time 
at  a  definite  degree  but  may  rise  gradually  and  often  rapidly. 

Coagulation  temperature  o£  the  egg  yolk.  The  egg  yolk  requires  a 
higher  temperature  for  coagulation  than  the  egg  white.  It  begins  to  thicken 
at  about  65 °C.  but  does  not  reach  a  stage  at  which  it  does  not  flow  until 
about  70°.  Since  the  yolk  does  not  change  color  during  coagulation  it  is 
more  difficult  to  determine  when  it  is  coagulated. 

When  the  white  and  yolk  are  mixed  by  beating  and  are  heated  slowly 
the  mass  begins  to  thicken  at  65°C.  and  becomes  stiffer  not  far  from  70°. 

Factors  affecting  heat  coagulation  of  egg  proteins.  The  follow- 
ing factors  affect  the  coagulation  temperature  of  the  egg  proteins :  ( 1 ) 
temperature,  (2)  time,  (3)  concentration  of  protein,  (4)  salt  content  and 
its  concentration,  (5)  reaction  of  the  egg  solution  or  mixture,  and  (6) 
sugar. 

Temperature  and  time.  The  rate  of  coagulation  increases  with  increas- 
ing temperature.  At  high  temperatures  it  is  so  rapid  that  it  seems  nearly 
instantaneous.  Eggs  cooked  in  boiling  water  will  cook  at  a  much  faster 
rate  or  in  a  shorter  time  than  those  cooked  in  water  at  70 °C.  Chick  and 
Martin  have  found  that  "heat  coagulation  is  a  reaction  with  a  high  tem- 
perature coefficient,  the  reaction  velocity  of  which  varies  considerably  with 
different  proteins  and  according  to  the  acidity  and  saline  content  of  the 
solution."  They  have  reported  that  the  temperature  coefficient  for  crystal- 
line egg  albumin  in  water  solution  and  1  per  cent  concentration  is  1.9 
times  for  1°C.  rise  in  temperature.  The  temperature  coefficient  is  greater 
than  2  for  the  results  of  Lepeschkin  given  below.  In  cooking  eggs  or  foods 
containing  large  proportions  of  egg,  the  amount  of  coagulum  formed  at 
a  definite  temperature  depends  upon  the  length  of  time  the  food  is  held  at 
the  specified  temperature  and  the  number  of  degrees  the  specified  tempera- 
ture is  above  the  point  at  which  coagulation  may  begin.  Using  filtered  egg 
white,  Lepeschkin  found  that,  with  water  at  a  definite  temperature,  a 
longer  time  was  required  before  the  egg  appeared  turbid  at  lower  tempera- 
tures than  at  higher  temperatures.  His  findings  may  be  summarized : 


334  EGG  COOKERY 


°c. 

Seconds 

req 

uired  for  coagulation 

57.04 

22,600 

58.01 

9,520 

59.03 

1,535 

60.03 

595 

61.02 

230 

62.01 

97 

63.01 

40 

As  the  temperature  of  milk  custards  is  elevated  the  firmness  of  the 
custard  is  increased.  At  a  definite  temperature,  depending  on  the  rate  of 
heating,  an  optimum  consistency  is  obtained.  Heating  to  a  temperature 
higher  than  this  increases  syneresis  and  porosity  of  the  custard. 

Woodruff  and  Meyer  found  that  by  increasing  the  temperature  from 
79°  to  91°  by  4°  intervals  the  strength,  when  tested  by  a  gel  tester  of 
distilled-water-egg  custard  gels  with  0.2  M  and  0.05  M  sodium  chloride 
and  0.2  M  magnesium  chloride  plus  23  per  cent  sugar,  was  increased.  But 
at  the  higher  temperatures  the  gels  were  porous  and  undesirable.  The  con- 
centration of  egg  used  was  approximately  2  to  a  cup  of  liquid. 

Co?icentration.  Robertson  states,  "The  concentration  of  the  protein,  and 
especially  the  presence  of  other  substances  in  the  solution,  very  markedly 
affects  the  coagulation  temperature."  This  is  illustrated  in  egg  cookery. 
The  whole  egg  coagulates  at  a  temperature  not  far  from  70 °C.  When  1 
to  2  tablespoons  of  milk  or  water  are  added,  as  in  the  making  of  plain 
omelets,  coagulation  occurs  at  a  temperature  above  70°C.  When  1  egg  is 
added  to  a  cup  of  milk  the  coagulation  temperature  is  much  higher  than 
that  of  egg  alone.  It  is  about  80°C.,  the  amount  coagulated  at  a  definite 
temperature  depending  upon  the  rate  of  heating.  If  2  eggs  are  added  to  a 
cup  of  milk  the  concentration  of  egg  is  greater  than  when  1  is  used,  and 
coagulation  under  the  same  conditions  for  heating  occurs  at  a  slightly  lower 
temperature. 

Salts.  The  salt  content  of  the  egg  or  of  the  material  with  which  the  egg 
is  combined  affects  the  coagulation  of  the  egg  proteins.  Lepeschkin  has 
shown  that,  if  egg  albumin  is  dialyzed  so  that  the  mineral  content  is  low- 
ered, the  albumin  does  not  coagulate  on  heating.  He  has  also  shown  that 
coagulation  varies  with  the  salt  concentration,  that  some  concentrations 
cause  coagulation  and  others  do  not.  However,  if,  to  the  heated  egg  al- 
bumin that  has  been  dialyzed,  salts  are  added,  coagulation  takes  place, 
but  this  often  requires  a  definite  concentration  for  maximum  coagulation, 
higher  or  lower  concentrations  not  being  so  effective  or  failing  to  bring 
about  coagulation. 

The  effect  of  the  salt  content  on  coagulation  can  be  shown  by  com- 
bining egg  as  for  custard,  but  substituting  distilled  water  for  the  milk, 
which  when  heated  to  83°  to  86°C.  does  not  gel.  If  to  this  distilled-water 
custard  a  definite  concentration  of  a  salt  is  added,  coagulation  will  occur 
on  heating.  Salts  which  will  bring  about  coagulation  are  iron  lactate,  ferric 


I 


pH  AND  COAGULATION  OF  CUSTARD  335 

chloride,  calcium  chloride,  sodium  chloride,  aluminum  chloride,  aluminum 
sulfate,  sodium  sulfate,  magnesium  sulfate,  sodium  acetate,  potassium 
tartrate,  sodium  potassium  tartrate,  calcium  phosphate  (monobasic  and 
secondary),  sodium  and  potassium  phosphate.  However,  some  produce  a 
firmer  coagulum  than  others,  for  with  each  salt  a  definite  concentration 
brings  about  optimum  coagulation.  If  the  distilled-water  custard  is  heated 
to  83°-86°  before  the  salt  is  added,  and  the  salt  is  then  added,  coagulation 
occurs;  but  when  the  mixture  is  stirred,  curdling  occurs  to  a  greater  or 
lesser  extent.  A  milk-salt  mixture,  such  as  the  Sherman  or  Steenbock  formu- 
las used  in  animal-feeding  experiments,  in  the  right  concentration  forms  a 
coagulum  in  distilled-water  custards  that  is  similar  in  consistency  to  that 
produced  by  milk  custards. 

Concentration  and  valence  of  added  salts.  If  the  effect  of  electrolytes 
upon  hydrophobic  and  hydrophilic  colloids  is  referred  to  in  Chapter  I,  the 
statement  is  found  that  the  precipitation  of  the  protein  is  brought  about 
by  the  ion  having  the  opposite  charge  from  that  of  the  protein.  In  general, 
the  coagulating  power  of  the  ion  increases  with  increasing  valence,  but 
there  are  some  exceptions  to  this  rule,  some  monovalent  ions  being  more  ef- 
fective than  some  polyvalent  ions.  In  many  cases  there  is  a  zone  of  maximum 
coagulating  effect.  The  effect  of  the  concentration  of  the  salt  upon  the 
coagulation  of  the  egg  can  be  shown  in  the  following  way.  If  less  than  1/16 
teaspoon  of  ferric  or  aluminum  chloride  is  added  to  an  egg,  a  cup  of  distilled 
water  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  custard  coagulates  on  heating  to  84°C., 
though  the  coagulum  is  not  so  firm  as  when  milk  is  used.  However,  if  a 
larger  quantity  of  ferric  or  aluminum  chloride  is  added  to  the  mixture, 
about  ]/^  teaspoon  or  more,  the  custard  does  not  coagulate  when  heated  to 
84° C.  The  reaction  of  the  custard  mixture  with  the  small  amount  of 
aluminum  or  ferric  chloride  given  above  is  slightly  acid  to  litmus,  and 
the  larger  quantities  are  decidedly  acid  to  litmus.  Hence,  the  larger  quantity 
of  ferric  chloride  must  peptize  the  egg  proteins. 

Woodruff  and  Meyer  found  that  sodium  chloride,  sodium  sulfate,  and 
calcium  chloride,  when  used  in  0.2  M  concentration,  produced  gels  of 
approximately  equal  strength  and  slightly  weaker  gels  than  milk.  Mag- 
nesium chloride  and  sodium  thiocyanate  produced  stronger  gels  than  milk. 
They  concluded  that  the  difference  in  strength  of  gels  formed  by  various 
electrolytes  seemed  to  be  a  specific  function  of  the  cation  and  anion  of 
the  salt,  and  independent  of  the  /»H  of  the  solution.  Increasing  the  concentra- 
tion of  each  salt  gave  gels  of  greater  strength  until  a  maximum  strength  was 
reached,  after  which  further  increases  of  the  salt  reduced  the  gel  strength. 

The  relation  of  reaction  to  setting  of  custards.  If  hydrochloric  acid  is 
added  to  the  egg-distilled-water  custard,  so  that  the  reaction  is  adjusted  to 
a  /»H  above  the  isoelectric  point  of  egg  albumin,  pH  4.8,  coagulation  occurs 
within  the  range  of  pH  5  to  6.  The  coagulum  is  soft  and  not  quite  so  firm 


336  EGG  COOKERY 

as  when  salts  are  added,  but  it  shows  that  a  definite  acidity  tends  to  aid 
coagulation. 

The  coagulation  of  egg-distilled-water  custard  with  added  salt  is  some- 
what similar  to  the  jellying  of  fruit  jells  in  that  it  occurs  at  a  definite 
range  of  pH. 

Coagulation  occurs  over  a  wider  range  of  pH  when  milk  is  used  with 
the  egg  than  when  distilled  water  is  used.  If  the  pH  is  adjusted  with 
hydrochloric  acid  and  sodium  hydroxide,  it  occurs  from  pH  0.2  to  8.6  or 
over  even  wider  ranges.  The  reaction  of  a  milk-egg  custard  mixture,  with 
no  added  acid  or  alkali,  is  between  pH  6  to  7  with  an  average  of  about 
6.5.  This  custard  mixture  was  made  up  in  a  large  quantity,  and  divided 
into  different  portions.  To  these  portions  hydrochloric  acid  or  sodium  hy- 
droxide was  added  to  adjust  the  custard  to  the  desired  pH.  As  the  pH 
was  lowered  the  firmness  of  the  custard  increased,  until  at  about  pH  5 
curdling  occurred.  All  custards  with  a  pH  below  5  curdled,  the  curd  be- 
coming very  fine  in  texture,  and  forming  a  dense  layer  in  the  bottom  of 
the  container.  This  layer  decreased  in  amount  as  the  pH  was  lowered 
below  the  isoelectric  point  of  egg  albumin.  At  a  pH  0.2  the  custard  was 
badly  charred,  and  the  curd  was  very  slight  and  fine,  the  custard  quite  soft. 
With  increased  alkalinity  above  pH  6.5  the  coagulum  was  less  firm.  The 
custards  could  be  placed  in  the  order  of  acidity  by  the  depth  of  color:  the 
greater  the  acidity  the  lighter  the  color,  the  greater  the  alkalinity  the 
deeper  the  color.  The  color  ranged  from  light  cream,  through  yellow,  to  a 
deep  orange-yellow. 

Acids.  Chick  and  Martin  state  that  acid  solution  hastens  the  second 
part  of  the  heat-coagulation  process,  that  is,  the  clotting  or  coagulation, 
but  does  not  hasten  the  first  part  of  the  process,  the  denaturation.  They 
have  reported  that  acid  accelerates  the  rate  of  coagulation.  They  state 
that  the  influence  of  acid  in  accelerating  the  coagulation  rate  of  a  neutral 
solution  is  at  first  relatively  small,  but  with  each  successive  addition  of  acid 
its  influence  becomes  disproportionately  greater.  Loeb  using  isoelectric  crys- 
talline egg  albumin  in  a  1  per  cent  solution  at  a  /)H  4.8  found  that  it 
coagulated  at  a  temperature  not  far  from  60°C.  When  acid  was  added 
and  the  /)H  lowered  to  4.39  the  coagulation  did  not  occur  until  about 
80°C.  With  pH  4.25  coagulation  did  not  occur  at  95°C. 

Fruits  that  do  not  have  a  high  acidity  such  as  dates  and  figs  may  be 
used  in  custards  and  tend  to  give  a  firmer  custard,  because  they  lower  the 
/)H  slightly.  More  acid  fruits,  such  as  lemon  juice,  cannot  be  used  in 
very  large  quantities.  The  addition  of  quite  acid  fruit  juices  tends  not  only 
to  coagulate  the  casein  and  albumin  but  also  to  hasten  curdling.  Custards 
that  are  made  of  milk  that  is  slightly  sour  will  curdle  more  readily  during 
heating.  If  the  acidity  has  not  reached  the  stage  at  which  curdling  occurs, 
the  custard  is  firmer. 

Alkalies.  Chick  and  Martin  have  found  that  in  alkaline  solution  the 
second  part  of  the  coagulation  process,  the  aggregation  or  coagulation  of 


CUSTARDS  337 

the  protein,  does  not  occur.  If  after  heating  the  alkali  is  neutralized  with 
acid,  coagulation  occurs.  Thus,  if  enough  of  an  alkali  or  of  an  alkaline 
salt  is  added  to  a  custard  to  render  the  solution  sufficiently  alkaline,  the 
custard  will  not  coagulate  on  heating.  But  if  acidified  after  heating  the 
custard  will  **set." 

Sugar.  The  addition  of  the  non-electrolyte  sugar  to  an  egg  mixture  ele- 
vates both  the  setting  and  curdling  temperatures.  In  large  enough  quantities 
it  tends  to  prevent  both  coagulation  and  curdling.  Its  effect  in  preventing 
coagulation  appears  to  be  proportional  to  the  amount  added,  the  greater 
the  amount  added  the  greater  the  difficulty  in  bringing  about  coagulation. 
Bancroft  and  Rutzler  state  that  a  "l5-per  cent  egg  white  sol  was  not 
prevented  from  coagulating  by  the  addition  of  0.25  gram  of  dextrose  to 
10  cc.  of  the  sol.  However,  when  the  sol  was  saturated  with  respect  to 
dextrose  heating  in  boiling  water  caused  no  coagulation." 

Woodruff  and  Meyer  found  that  10  per  cent  of  sucrose  reduced  the  gel 
strength  of  egg-milk  custards  heated  to  83 °C.,  approximately  one-half.  Add- 
ing 30  per  cent  of  sugar  practically  prevented  coagulation.  Adding  sugar 
also  increased  the  translucency  of  the  custard. 

In  the  salad-dressing  recipe  given  in  Experiment  65,  increasing  the  sugar 
from  Yi  to  11  tablespoons  (140  grams,  about  30  per  cent)  elevates  the 
temperature  for  optimum  thickness  about  4°  to  6°C.  Here  in  spite  of  the 
fact  that  the  acid  tends  to  lower  the  coagulation  temperature  the  effect  of 
the  large  quantity  of  sugar  is  still  greater  and  the  mixture  must  be  cooked 
to  a  higher  temperature  for  optimum  thickening. 

Coagulation  by  other  means.  Flosdorf  and  Chambers  found  that  audible 
sound,  frequencies  (1000-15,000),  coagulated  solutions  of  egg  albumin  and 
synthetic  plasterin  almost  instantly  at  30 °C. 

Jellinek  placed  a  raw  egg  between  two  condenser  plates  connected  to  a 
short-wave  radio  transmitter.  After  power  of  1000  watts  had  been  applied 
for  5  minutes,  the  egg  yolk  was  coagulated  and  hard,  as  if  it  had  been 
cooked,  but  the  white  was  scarcely  affected.  The  temperature  of  the  yolk 
at  the  end  of  this  period  was  140°F.,  that  of  the  white  was  176°F. 

The  Applications  of  Factors  Affecting  Heat  Coagulation 
to  Preparation  o£  Food  Products 

Custards.  As  can  be  deduced  from  the  foregoing  discussion,  custards 
containing  a  high  proportion  of  sugar  may  not  thicken  satisfactorily  for 
serving  purposes.  A  small  amount  of  salt  aids  setting  but  too  much  in- 
creases the  tendency  to  curdle. 

Pie  fillings.  One  question  often  asked  is  why  butterscotch  fillings  for 
pies  which  are  of  a  consistency  for  serving  sometimes  become  thin  and  runny 
after  standing  for  a  short  time.  This  of  course  is  different  from  the  instances 
in  which  thickening  does  not  occur.  There  may  be  various  factors  that  bring 
about  this  result,  but  the  effect  of  the  sugar  in  elevating  the  temperature 


338  EGG  COOKERY 

at  which  egg  coagulates  is  one  explanation.  The  proportion  of  sugar  in 
butterscotch  fillings  in  different  recipes  varies  from  about  15  to  25  per 
cent,  or  15  to  25  grams  per  100  grams  of  filling.  A  usual  procedure  is  to 
cook  the  sugar,  cornstarch  or  flour,  and  scalded  milk  until  thick.  This 
mixture  is  often  added  to  the  beaten  yolks  by  stirring  the  hot  mixture 
into  the  yolks.  Sometimes  it  is  considered  that  the  hot  milk  mixture  will 
coagulate  or  cook  the  egg  yolk  sufficiently.  However,  if  the  temperature 
drops  below  80°C.  during  this  procedure  and  the  mixture  is  not  reheated 
the  egg  yolks  will  not  be  cooked  sufficiently.  The  filling  appears  thick  at 
the  time,  but  on  standing  it  becomes  runny.  If  sugar  is  added  to  uncooked 
egg  yolks,  mixed,  and  left  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes  the  mixture  appears 
thinner  and  more  runny.  If  the  yolks  are  not  cooked  sufficiently  they  act 
in  much  the  same  way,  the  sugar  dissolving  in  the  uncooked  yolk  and  the 
filling  becoming  runny.  This  has  never  been  observed  by  the  author  if 
the  mixture  is  heated  to  a  sufficiently  high  temperature  after  the  egg  yolks 
are  added.  The  same  thing  may  occur  in  chocolate  and  lemon  pie  fillings, 
although  this  in  some  instances  is  due  to  not  using  enough  starch,  the  action 
of  the  acid  on  the  smaller  amount  of  starch  lessening  the  stiffness  of  the 
filling.  Another  possible  cause  is  the  tannin  of  the  brow^n  sugar,  because 
the  tannin  has  a  dehydrating  effect  on  many  sols.  But  to  date  it  has  not 
been  possible  to  obtain  thinning  in  the  butterscotch  filling  by  adding  slightly 
more  tannin  than  might  be  found  in  the  sugar. 

Baked  products.  The  addition  of  sugar  to  egg  in  baked  products  also 
tends  to  delay  coagulation  or  peptize  the  egg  proteins  and  will  be  discussed 
further  under  angel  cake  and  cakes  containing  fats. 

Cooked   Salad  Dressings 

Vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  a  mixture  of  the  two,  is  used  in  cooked  salad 
dressings.  The  two  acids  do  not  behave  alike,  particularly  in  regard  to 
curdling.  The  lemon  juice  contains  citric  acid  and  salts.  Vinegar  contains 
acetic  acid,  and  cider  vinegar  contains  salts.  If  mustard,  sugar,  and  salt 
are  kept  constant  in  the  recipe  given  in  Experiment  65  with  72  grams  of 
egg  yolk  and  a  total  of  a  cup  of  liquid,  results  similar  to  the  following 
may  be  obtained,  provided  the  rate  of  heating  is  the  same  in  each  case.  The 
mixture  is  cooked  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler,  12  to  15  minutes 
being  required  for  the  cooking  process. 


pW 

Coats  spoon 

Water 

about 

°c. 

'inegar 

Vs  cup 

VS  cup 

4.2 

82  to  85 

'inegar 

X  cup 

K  cup 

3.9 

78  to  80 

'inegar 

K  cup 

}4  cup 

3.6 

76  to  78 

emon  juice 

yi  cup 

%  cup 

3.6 

82  to  85 

emon  juice 

%  cup 

%  cup 

?>.?> 

78  to  80 

emon  juice 

H  cup 

Vi  cup 

2.8 

76  to  78 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSINGS  339 

One-fourth  cup  of  either  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  gives  a  stiffer  or 
thicker  dressing  than  ^  cup;  ^  cup  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  gives  a 
thicker  dressing  than  ^  cup.  These  results  seem  to  agree  with  those  of 
Chick  and  Martin  that  acid  aids  coagulation.  Increasing  the  quantity  of 
acid  lowers  the  temperature  at  which  the  consistency  for  serving  is  reached. 
The  optimum  dressing  for  serving  is  obtained  at  a  temperature  slightly 
higher  than  the  temperature  for  ''coating  the  spoon."  The  salad  dressings 
become  thinner  after  heating  above  this  optimum  temperature  for  serving; 
the  ones  with  lemon  juice  are  thinner  than  those  with  the  vinegar.  An- 
other peculiarity  is  that  if  a  portion  of  these  salad  dressings  is  cooked  to 
as  high  a  temperature  as  92°C.,  all  those  made  with  vinegar  may  or  may 
not  curdle.  The  ones  with  lemon  juice  may  not  curdle,  or  those  with  the 
smaller  quantity  of  lemon  juice  may  curdle  at  about  85°C.,  but  when 
heated  to  a  higher  temperature  the  curds  may  partially  or  entirely  dis- 
appear. In  all  these  instances  the  reaction  of  the  dressings  is  probably  below 
the  isoelectric  point  of  ovovitellin.  If  heated  only  to  the  temperature  at 
which  the  dressings  are  thickest,  the  thinning  is  not  noticeable  if  the  dressing 
is  stored. 

If  92  grams  of  whole  egg  are  substituted  for  the  egg  yolk,  the  pH  re- 
mains practically  the  same,  but  the  dressing  when  cooked  contains  fine 
curds,  those  in  the  dressings  made  with  lemon  juice  being  finer  than  those 
in  the  ones  made  with  vinegar.  Increasing  the  proportion  of  salt  produces 
a  thicker  product  at  a  slightly  lower  temperature  but  one  which  curdles 
at  a  lower  temperature.  Increasing  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  slightly  elevates 
the  temperature  at  which  the  best  texture  for  serving  is  obtained. 

The  explanation  for  the  salad  dressing's  becoming  thin  and  nearly  its 
original  consistency  when  heated  above  the  temperature  at  which  the  opti- 
mum thickening  occurs  is  that  the  acid  and  continued  application  of  heat 
bring  about  peptization  of  the  protein.  It  is  probably  an  illustration  of  a 
partial  or  complete  reversibility  of  heat  coagulation  and  one  of  the  most 
common  occurring  in  food  preparation.  It  is  probably  the  reason  that  usually 
only  one  or  no  recipe  for  boiled  salad  dressing  containing  only  egg  yolk 
as  the  thickening  ingredient  is  given  in  most  cook  books.  Too  many  cooks 
have  had  the  salad  dressing  return  to  its  original  consistency. 

Salad  dressing  containing  starch.  If  maximum  thickening  of  both  starch 
and  egg  is  desired  when  these  two  ingredients  are  used  together  in  a  boiled 
salad  dressing,  the  starch  and  all,  or  a  part,  of  the  liquid  should  be  heated 
to  95 °C.  or  boiling  before  the  egg  is  added.  The  maximum  thickening  of 
cornstarch  does  not  occur  below  91°  and  of  wheat  starch  below  95°C. 
Since  the  maximum  thickening  of  the  egg  in  the  presence  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  occurs  at  temperatures  of  76°  to  85 °C.  and  thinning  occurs  at 
higher  temperature,  this  suggests  that  the  thickened  starch  paste  should 
be  added  to  the  cold  beaten  egg  and  then  heated  to  a  temperature  that 
gives  maximum  thickening  of  the  egg. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  the  possibility  that  part  of  the  egg  protein 


340  EGG  COOKERY 

may  not  coagulate  in  the  presence  of  starch,  hence  not  thicken  the  salad 
dressing.  Bancroft  and  Rutzler,  quoting  Berlinsson,  state  that  "albumin 
is  prevented  from  coagulating  even  in  boiling  water  by  the  presence  of 
starch."  However,  this  appears  contrary  to  observed  results  in  food  prepara- 
tion. Possibly  there  needs  to  be  a  certain  concentration  of  starch  before 
coagulation  is  prevented  or  peptization  of  the  egg  protein  may  occur  when 
heated  above  the  temperature  for  coagulation  of  the  egg  protein.  It  will, 
at  least,  be  an  interesting  point  to  investigate. 

Eggs  Cooked  in  the  Shell 

Effect  of  coagulation  at  low  and  high  temperatures.  Eggs  cooked 
in  water  held  at  70 °C.  are  not  firm  like  those  that  are  cooked  in  boiling 
water.  The  white  cooked  at  70°C.  is  very  soft  and  jelly-like  in  consist- 
ency. The  yolk  held  at  this  temperature  for  an  hour  or  longer  has  the 
appearance  of  an  uncooked  yolk,  but  is  more  viscous,  more  waxy,  thicker, 
and  does  not  flow  like  the  uncooked  yolk.  The  color  also  remains  more 
like  that  of  the  uncooked  yolk,  a  deeper  orange,  instead  of  the  yellow 
which  is  developed  in  eggs  cooked  at  higher  temperatures.  The  white  of  an 
egg  cooked  at  least  12  minutes  in  boiling  water  is  rather  firm  and  may  be 
tough.  Eggs  cooked  at  temperatures  between  70°  and  100°C.  have  tex- 
tures intermediate  between  the  ones  described  above,  i.e.,  they  are  firmer 
than  the  former  and  usually  more  tender  than  the  latter. 

By  cooking  for  a  short  time  at  a  higher  temperature  the  outer  edge  of 
the  white  may  be  firm  to  a  depth  depending  on  time  of  cooking,  a  portion 
near  the  yolk  may  be  unchanged,  and  the  yolk  may  be  unchanged  or  the 
outer  portion  may  be  slightly  cooked. 

The  softer  coagulum  at  the  lower  cooking  temperature  has  been  ex- 
plained as  due  to  the  effect  of  low  temperature.  Robertson  suggests  that  it 
may  be  due  to  only  partial  coagulation  of  the  protein  at  the  low  tem- 
perature. 

The  white  of  some  eggs  is  often  more  tender  than  that  of  other  eggs 
cooked  in  the  same  lot.  Perhaps  this  may  be  explained  by  the  reaction,  those 
which  are  more  alkaline  coagulating  less  readily.  There  is  also  the  possibil- 
ity that  the  white  of  eggs  cooked  an  extremely  long  time  may  become  more 
tender. 

Barmore  mixed  egg  white  thoroughly  and  placed  it  in  a  cement  briquette 
mold.  The  mold  was  immersed  in  water  of  the  desired  temperature  and  left 
40  minutes.  The  tensile  strength  and  the  depth  a  steel  ball  and  rod  would 
penetrate  were  determined.  Below  77.5°C.  the  samples  were  too  tender 
to  handle.  The  three  tests  all  indicated  a  decided  increase  in  tenderness  as 
the  temperature  of  coagulation  was  reduced  with  the  exception  of  the  steel 
ball  at  93°  and  101  °C.  Here  the  data  indicated  that  the  change  may  have 
decreased  instead  of  increasing  the  toughness.  The  other  tests  gave  opposite 
results  at  these  temperatures. 


POACHED  EGGS  341 

Rate  o£  heat  penetration.  The  higher  the  temperature  of  the  cooking 
water,  the  more  rapid  is  the  rate  of  heat  penetration.  As  the  temperature 
of  the  egg  and  water  become  more  nearly  equal  the  rate  of  heat  trans- 
ference is  very  much  slower,  but  the  temperature  at  the  center  of  the  yolk 
even  after  cooking  in  boiling  water  for  4  hours  or  longer  is  never  quite 
as  high  as  that  of  the  water,  but  is  a  fraction  of  a  degree  lower. 

Time  required  for  cooking  eggs  in  water.  Since  coagulation  takes 
place  at  a  definite  rate,  which  increases  with  a  rise  in  temperature,  both 
the  length  of  time  the  egg  is  left  in  the  water  and  the  temperature  of  the 
water  affect  the  coagulation  rate,  and  thus  the  time  necessary  for  cooking. 
At  a  temperature  just  a  little  above  the  temperature  at  which  coagulation 
of  the  white  occurs,  60°  to  65°C.,  a  very  long  time  is  required  to  coagulate 
the  mass  of  the  egg  white.  If  the  cooking  temperature  is  70°  or  a  little 
higher,  more  than  an  hour  is  required  to  coagulate  the  white  and  yolk. 
At  a  cooking  temperature  of  85°  to  90°C.  from  25  to  35  minutes  are 
necessary  to  have  the  yolk  the  same  consistency  throughout.  A  shorter  time 
leaves  a  portion  of  the  egg  yolk  an  orange  color,  instead  of  the  uniform, 
powdery  yellow.  At  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  about  12  minutes 
are  required  to  complete  the  cooking  of  the  yolk  uniformly.  With  increase 
in  height  above  sea  level  these  times  are  lengthened. 

The  exact  time  of  cooking  at  any  given  temperature  depends  upon  the 
temperature  of  the  egg  when  placed  in  the  water,  the  quantity  of  water 
in  relation  to  the  size  of  the  egg,  and  the  rate  of  heating  the  water. 

Poached  Eggs 

Fresh  eggs  are  usually  considered  better  for  poaching  than  eggs  in  which 
the  physical  quality  has  deteriorated,  i.e.,  eggs  with  watery  whites.  Class 
results  substantiate  this  popular  opinion,  for  eggs  with  thick  viscous  whites 
can  be  poached  satisfactorily  with  far  less  care  than  those  with  thin  whites. 
In  poaching  eggs  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  temperature  of  the  water  near 
the  boiling  point  when  the  egg  is  added.  Thus  the  outer  portion  of  the 
egg  is  coagulated  in  a  short  period  of  time.  If  desired,  the  cooking  can 
be  completed  at  a  lower  temperature. 

Since  both  the  white  and  yolk  tend  to  flatten  on  standing  after  being 
broken  out  of  the  shell,  poached  eggs  of  better  appearance  are  usually 
obtained  if  the  egg  is  broken  just  before  it  is  added  to  the  poaching  water. 
St.  John  and  Flor  have  reported  that  the  thin  portion  of  the  white  coagu- 
lates as  satisfactorily  as  the  thick  portion  if  ^  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  is  used.  The  salt  aids  in  coagulation.  Eggs  with  about  the 
same  proportion  of  thick  and  thin  parts  of  the  white  are  firmer  when  poached 
in  salted  than  in  unsalted  water.  But  for  what  food  teachers  call  standard 
products,  eggs  poached  in  unsalted  water  often  have  a  better  appearance 
than  those  poached  in  salted  water.  The  ones  cooked  in  salted  water  are 
usually  not  so  shiny.  Occasionally  the  reverse  is  true.  The  added  salt  aids 


342  EGG  COOKERY 

in  coagulation,  so  that  the  thin  portion  of  the  white  is  less  readily  detached 
from  the  thicker  portion.  But  the  appearance  of  the  thin  portion  after 
cooking  in  the  salted  water  is  often  more  puckered,  wrinkled,  and  ruffled, 
or  is  in  voluminous  folds  around  the  thicker  coagulated  part.  This  detracts 
from  the  appearance.  Either  a  very  hard  water  or  a  softened  water  is  used 
for  poaching  eggs  in  class  work.  It  is  possible  that  the  natural  salt  content 
of  the  water  may  effect  coagulation,  so  that  thin  watery  whites  cooked  in 
Ames's  water  do  not  give  as  good  appearing  products  as  those  obtained  by 
St.  John  and  Flor. 

The  Formation  of  Ferrous  Sulfide  in  Cooked  Eggs 

When  an  egg  has  been  cooked  in  hot  water  for  15  minutes  or  longer  a 
dark  greenish  color  may  be  formed  on  the  surface  of  the  egg  yolk.  If  the 
egg  is  immersed  in  cold  water  immediately  after  cooking,  the  green  color 
is  not  produced  or  is  less  apparent  than  when  the  egg  is  left  in  the  hot 
w^ater  to  cool  slowly. 

The  yolk  contains  most  of  the  iron  of  the  egg,  about  85  times  as  much 
as  the  white.  According  to  Sherman,  the  sulfur  content  of  the  white  is 
slightly  higher  than  that  of  the  yolk,  the  white  containing  0.214  per  cent 
and  the  yolk  0.208  per  cent.  The  sulfur  of  the  white  is  more  labile  and 
more  easily  split  off  by  heat  than  the  sulfur  of  the  yolk.  Marlow  and  King 
say  that  the  sulfur  in  egg  whites  and  yolk  is  organically  bound  and  that 
nearly  all  of  it  can  be  accounted  for  by  the  cystine  and  methionine  sulfur. 

Tinkler  and  Soar  have  shown  that  the  green  color  is  due  to  the  forma- 
tion of  ferrous  sulfide  at  the  surface  of  the  yolk.  The  white  with  prolonged 
heating  at  high  temperatures  evolves  considerable  quantities  of  hydrogen 
sulfide.  The  hydrogen  sulfide  combines  with  the  iron  of  the  yolk  to  form 
ferrous  sulfide  which  produces  the  green  color.  The  amount  of  hydrogen 
sulfide  evolved  depends  on  ( 1 )  the  time  of  heating,  (2)  the  temperature 
reached,  and  (3)  the  reaction  of  the  egg.  In  a  short  cooking  period  little 
hydrogen  sulfide  is  evolved.  Likewise  at  a  lower  temperature  a  smaller 
amount  of  hydrogen  sulfide  is  formed.  Tinkler  and  Soar  have  also  show^n 
that  the  formation  of  ferrous  sulfide  takes  place  very,  very  slowly  until 
the  yolk  reaches  a  temperature  of  70°C.  It  is  very  seldom  formed  in  eggs 
cooked  for  1  to  1^  hours  at  70°C.,  or  in  eggs  cooked  30  to  35  minutes 
at  85°C.  Thus  both  the  temperature  attained  by  all  or  a  portion  of  the  egg 
white  as  well  as  the  time  held  at  this  temperature  influence  the  amount 
of  hydrogen  sulfide  formed.  In  addition,  as  the  reaction  becomes  more 
alkaline,  the  sulfur  is  split  off  more  readily.  Therefore,  the  extent  of 
deterioration  of  the  egg  also  affects  the  amount  of  hydrogen  sulfide  formed. 
This  explains  why  some  eggs  have  more  ferrous  sulfide  formed  than  other 
eggs  when  cooked  at  the  same  time  and  cooled  in  the  same  manner.  Tinkler 
and  Soar  have  reported  that  the  uncooked  yolk  is  acid  in  reaction  but  upon 
being  heated  above  70°  becomes  alkaline. 


BAKED  AND  SOFT  CUSTARDS         343 

Effect  of  rapid  cooling  upon  formation  of  ferrous  sulfide  in 
cooked  eggs.  Hydrogen  sulfide  is  a  gas.  When  the  egg  is  placed  in  cold 
water  immediately  after  cooking  the  lowering  of  the  temperature  at  the 
surface  of  the  egg  lowers  the  pressure  there.  One  of  the  things  learned  in 
connection  with  the  gas  laws  is  that  the  pressure  increases  with  increasing 
temperature.  Since  the  white  near  the  shell  reaches  a  certain  temperature 
more  rapidly  than  the  white  near  the  yolk,  more  hydrogen  sulfide  is  split 
off  near  the  shell.  But,  since  the  temperature  near  the  yolk  is  lower,  hence 
has  less  pressure  than  near  the  shell,  the  hydrogen  sulfide  diffuses  through 
the  white  towards  the  yolk.  However,  if  the  egg  is  placed  immediately  in 
cold  water  after  cooking,  the  hydrogen  sulfide  diffuses  to  the  surface  of 
the  egg,  owing  to  the  reduced  pressure,  but  if  left  in  hot  water,  or  to  cool 
in  the  air,  the  gas  does  not  diffuse  so  quickly  to  the  surface  and  ferrous 
sulfide  is  formed  at  the  junction  of  the  egg  white  and  yolk.  Tinkler  and 
Soar  have  found  that  eggs  cooked  15  minutes  in  boiling  water  and  cooled 
slowly  have  some  green  color  at  the  surface  of  the  yolk;  if  cooled  quickly, 
none  or  very  little  green  color  develops.  Cooking  in  boiling  water  for  30 
minutes  gives  a  great  deal  of  green  color,  no  matter  how  the  eggs  are 
cooled.  Since  the  yolk  contains  iron  and  a  fairly  large  quantity  of  sulfur, 
they  wondered  why  the  entire  yolk  did  not  turn  green  when  cooked  as  long 
as  7  hours.  They  found  the  sulfur  compounds  in  the  yolk  were  more  stable 
and  less  easily  broken  down  to  form  hydrogen  sulfide.  Thus  even  with 
long  cooking  the  color  of  the  interior  of  the  yolk  is  not  changed. 

Custards 

In  custards,  eggs  are  combined  with  milk  and  sugar.  The  chief  protein 
of  cow's  milk  is  casein,  which  is  not  coagulable  by  heat.  Milk  contains 
some  albumin  and  a  small  proportion  of  globulin,  which  are  coagulable  by 
heat.  Zoller  states  that  the  protein  coagulable  by  heat  is  about  0.75  per 
cent  of  cow's  milk.  In  the  mixed  milk  and  egg,  the  egg  furnishes  the  larger 
percentage  of  the  heat-coagulable  protein.  As  the  egg,  milk,  and  sugar  mix- 
ture is  heated,  coagulation  occurs,  and  the  thickened  mixture  is  known  as 
custard.  If  the  temperature  of  the  custard  is  carried  a  little  higher  than  the 
coagulation  point,  a  point  is  reached  at  which  the  custard  begins  to  show 
syneresis,  or  the  liquid  separates  from  the  curd.  This  is  called  the  curdling 
point. 

Baked  and  soft  custards.  Custards  may  be  cooked  in  two  ways.  They 
may  be  cooked  without  stirring.  This  type  is  usually  baked  in  the  oven 
and  is  called  baked  custard.  The  other  tj^pe  of  custard  is  stirred  continually 
while  it  is  cooked  and  is  called  soft  custard.  If  the  proportion  of  ingredients 
in  the  custard  are  the  same  the  one  cooked  without  stirring  is  firmer  in 
texture  and  appears  to  be  in  one  piece  or  clot.  The  soft  custard  has  a  softer 
texture  and  is  not  in  one  piece  but  is  a  viscous  fluid. 

The  stirred  custard  also  tends  to  curdle  more  readily  than  the  baked 


344  EGG  COOKERY 

custard.  In  part,  this  is  undoubtedly  because  of  the  effect  of  mechanical 
agitation  and  is  similar  to  the  separation  of  fibrin  of  blood  when  beaten. 

Milk  for  custards  is  often  heated  before  mixing  with  the  egg  and  sugar. 
Forewarming  of  the  milk  may  tend  to  prevent  curdling  of  the  milk,  but 
the  greatest  advantage  is  probably  in  shortening  the  cooking  period. 

Coagulation  temperature  of  custards.  The  temperature  at  which 
a  custard  begins  to  coagulate  or  thicken  is  higher  than  the  temperature  at 
which  the  egg  alone  coagulates.  The  exact  point  at  which  coagulation  starts 
is  more  difficult  to  ascertain  than  in  the  egg  white,  since  the  coagulation 
must  be  determined  from  the  thickening  of  the  custard.  But  not  much 
occurs  below  80°C.  at  ordinary  rates  of  heating  nor  below  78°C.  at  slower 
rates  of  heating.  As  the  soft  custard  coagulates,  a  thick  layer  will  cling  to 
a  spoon  that  is  dipped  into  the  custard.  In  cookery  this  is  known  as  ''coat- 
ing a  spoon"  and  is  one  method  of  estimating  when  the  custard  is  sufficiently 
cooked.  The  temperature  at  which  coagulation  starts  varies  with  the  vary- 
ing proportion  of  ingredients  of  the  custard  and  the  rate  of  cooking.  In 
class  results,  the  coagulation  of  a  custard  made  of  1  cup  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  and  1  egg  has  never  been  perceptible  below  78°C.  and  not 
at  this  temperature  except  when  the  rate  of  cooking  is  very  slow.  Occa- 
sionally a  custard  is  heated  slowly  enough  so  that  the  best  serving  con- 
sistency occurs  at  80°,  provided  the  eggs  are  fresh  so  that  the  reaction  has 
not  become  quite  alkaline. 

It  is  possible  to  heat  a  cup  of  custard  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  from 
room  temperature  to  the  curdling  point  in  less  than  3  minutes.  With  this 
rapid  rate  of  heating  the  custard  is  too  thin  to  serve  at  85°  or  even  at 
87°  to  89°,  and  generally  curdles  about  89°,  often  after  the  temperature 
has  remained  stationary  at  89°  for  a  time.  It  may  reach  91°  or  92°  and 
then  drop  back  to  about  89°,  the  curdling  occurring  before  a  serving 
consistency  is  attained. 

When  the  custard  is  cooked  more  slowly,  and  particularly  if  the  heat- 
ing is  slow  after  75°C.  is  reached,  thickening  is  quite  perceptible  at  80°, 
it  has  a  consistency  for  serving  from  80°  to  84° ;  that  cooked  more  slowly 
being  thicker  at  the  lower  temperature.  A  slower  rate  of  cooking  is  pref- 
erable to  the  rapid  one.  With  the  slower  rate  of  cooking  the  thickening 
is  evident  for  considerable  time  before  the  curdling  point  is  reached.  With 
the  rapid  cooking,  the  custard  requires  very  close  watching  and  rapid  work 
to  remove  it  from  the  heat  before  the  curdling  temperature  is  reached. 
Curdling  may  occur  at  84°  if  the  temperature  is  raised  very  slowly,  but  in 
ordinary  cooking  it  is  more  likely  to  occur  between  85°  and  87°C. 

Coagulation  and  particularly  curdling  in  custards  is  accompanied  by 
absorption  of  heat.  In  the  custards  heated  slowly  the  temperature  is  usu- 
ally stationary  for  a  considerable  period  before  curdling  occurs.  In  the 
rapidly  heated  custards  the  temperature  often  reaches  90°  to  92°  and  then 
drops  as  curdling  occurs. 

The   temperatures  given   in   the    following   discussion   are   for   custards 


CUSTARD  PIE  345 

requiring  12  to  20  minutes  from  the  time  cooking  is  started  to  reach  the 
curdling  point. 

Concentration  of  egg  and  coagulation.  If  the  proportion  of  egg 
in  the  custard  is  increased,  thus  increasing  the  concentration  of  the  protein, 
coagulation  starts  at  a  slightly  lower  temperature,  a  firmer  custard  being 
obtained  at  a  definite  temperature  as  the  proportion  of  egg  is  increased. 

Sugar.  If  the  proportion  of  sugar  to  1  egg  and  a  cup  of  milk  is  increased, 
the  coagulation  temperature  is  elevated  and  coagulation  begins  above  80° C. 
The  elevation  of  coagulation  temperature  is  proportional  to  the  amount 
of  sugar  added.  If  the  custard  is  saturated  w^ith  sugar,  coagulation  does  not 
occur  at  boiling  temperature. 

Yolks.  If  two  yolks  are  substituted  for  1  whole  egg  the  coagulation 
temperature  is  higher  than  for  the  whole  egg. 

Whites.  If  two  whites  are  substituted  for  the  one  whole  egg  the  coagu- 
lation temperature  is  lower  than  for  a  custard  made  of  the  whole  egg.  With 
both  the  yolks  and  whites  the  coagulation  temperature  varies  with  the  pro- 
portion of  sugar  used. 

The  optimum  temperature  for  cooking  custards.  Williams  has 
reported  that  the  curdling  point  for  a  custard  made  of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  is  83.5 °C.  When  the  proportion  of  ingredients 
is  varied  the  curdling  point  varies.  If  the  proportion  of  egg  is  increased 
the  curdling  point  is  lowered ;  increasing  the  sugar  elevates  the  curdling 
point. 

The  temperatures  given  previously  and  those  reported  by  Williams  are 
for  soft  custards.  Baked  custards  may  be  cooked  several  degrees  higher  than 
soft  custards  without  curdling.  This  lower  curdling  temperature  for  soft 
custards  is  probably  due  to  the  stirring,  which  increases  the  tendency  for 
separation  of  the  custards  into  curds.  Hence,  it  is  important  in  making 
soft  custards  to  prevent  heating  after  a  certain  temperature  has  been 
reached.  This  can  be  accomplished  by  putting  the  cooking  pan  in  cold 
water  or  by  pouring  the  custard  into  another  utensil. 

Between  the  temperature  at  which  coagulation  starts  and  the  curdling 
point  is  a  temperature  at  which  the  custard  has  the  best  texture  and  flavor 
for  serving. 

Williams  has  reported  that  the  optimum  temperature  for  custards  made 
of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  is  82.5°C,  When  2 
yolks  are  substituted  for  the  whole  egg  the  optimum  temperature  is  83.5°, 
and  when  2  whites  are  substituted  for  the  whole  egg  the  optimum  tem- 
perature is  82°. 

Custard  pie.  In  cooking  custard  pie  one  of  the  major  difficulties  is 
to  prevent  soaking  of  the  crust.  Increasing  the  proportion  of  egg  helps, 
as  the  custard  then  coagulates  at  a  lower  temperature.  Thus  1^  eggs  to  a 
cup  of  milk  is  better  than  1  egg.  Prewarming  the  milk  before  adding  it  to 
the  other  ingredients  shortens  the  time  before  coagulation  takes  place. 

One  way  to  prevent  soaking  of  the  crust  is  to  cook  the  pastry  and  the 


346  EGG  COOKERY 

filling  separately.  Bake  the  pastry  on  the  bottom  side  of  a  pie  pan  with 
sloping  sides.  Bake  the  custard  in  a  pie  pan  of  the  same  size  as  the  one  used 
for  the  crust,  setting  the  pan  in  hot  water  and  using  as  low  an  oven 
temperature  as  desired.  After  baking  the  custard,  cool  it  until  the  pan  feels 
warm  but  not  hot  to  the  hand.  At  this  temperature  it  has  set  sufficiently 
to  hold  together,  yet  will  not  break  so  easily  as  when  cold.  Run  a  knife 
or  spatula  around  the  edge  of  the  custard  and,  tilting  it  at  about  a  45-degree 
angle,  shake  and  slide  it  out  of  the  pan  into  the  crust. 

Whipping  Eggs  and  Egg  Whites 

When  an  egg  is  whipped  with  an  egg  beater,  or  similar  utensil,  its  vol- 
ume increases,  owing  to  incorporation  of  air.  The  egg  white  because  of  its 
low  surface  tension  and  the  stability  of  its  surface  films  readily  forms  a 
foam. 

The  essentials  for  a  stable  foam  have  been  discussed  in  Chapter  I.  They 
are  a  low  surface  tension,  a  low  vapor  pressure,  and  a  tendency  for  the 
substance  in  the  surface  to  solidify,  hence  giving  rigidity  and  permanence. 

Stages  o£  stiffness  in  beating  egg  whites.  With  slight  whipping 
the  incorporated  air  bubbles  are  large,  the  egg  white  appears  foamy  yet 
transparent,  is  very  runny,  and  will  flow  readily.  With  longer  beating  the 
air  cells  in  the  egg  white  become  smaller,  the  appearance  of  the  egg  white 
is  less  transparent  and  more  white.  It  still  flows  if  the  bowl  is  partially 
inverted.  The  egg  white  becomes  stiffer  with  continued  beating.  The  stiff- 
ness is  due,  in  part  at  least,  to  the  finer  division  of  the  air  bubbles,  and 
thus  the  amount  of  egg  white  utilized  in  forming  films  is  greater.  Many 
small  air  bubbles  with  their  fine  cell  walls  may  be  stronger  and  more 
rigid  than  a  few  large  cells.  As  beating  is  continued  the  egg  becomes  very 
white,  begins  to  lose  a  little  of  the  moist,  shiny  appearance,  and  is  stiff  and 
rigid.  If  the  bowl  is  inverted,  the  egg  w^hite  does  not  flow  but  remains  in 
the  bowl  and  the  end  of  peaks  stand  up  straight.  If  the  egg  is  left  to  stand, 
the  watery  fluid  collects  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  more  slowly.  With 
longer  beating  the  egg  white  appears  dry,  loses  its  shiny  appearance,  and 
small  white  patches  that  look  like  small  curds  may  appear.  This  is  the 
stage  called  dry  in  cook  books.  At  this  point  the  w^hite  is  very  rigid  and 
rather  brittle  so  that  with  a  whisk  beater  it  is  easily  thrown  out  of  the 
bowl  in  w^hich  it  is  whipped. 

Methods  of  testing  stiffness.  There  are  several  ways  in  which  the  stiff- 
ness may  be  tested.  For  household  use  the  tests  are  ( 1 )  appearance,  (2)  the 
height  of  peaks  and  the  extent  to  which  the  point  bends  over  when  the  egg 
beater  or  some  utensil  is  lifted  out  of  the  beaten  white,  and  (3)  the  rate 
of  flow  when  the  bowl  or  plate  in  which  the  white  is  beaten  is  partially 
inverted.  A  skillful  operator  working  constantly  with  egg  w^hite  soon 
learns  to  judge  the  degree  of  stiffness  by  these  common  household  methods, 
and  the  degree  of  proficiency  that  can  be  attained  is  surprising.   But  for 


SALT  AND  WHIPPING  OF  EGG  WHITES  347 

experimental  purposes  the  same  degree  of  stiffness  probably  could  not  be 
duplicated  in  another  laboratory  from  the  description.  In  the  home  the 
height  of  the  peaks,  and  particularly  the  extent  the  point  falls  over,  is  the 
best  criterion  for  judging  stiffness.  The  rate  of  flow  is  not  quite  so  good 
unless  the  same  quantity  of  egg  white  is  always  used,  for  a  large  quantity 
must  be  beaten  stiffer  to  flow  at  the  same  rate  as  a  smaller  quantity. 

For  laboratory  purposes,  (1)  specific  gravity,  (2)  foaming  power,  and 
(3)  the  amount  of  drainage  during  a  definite  time  are  used  to  test  the 
stiffness  and  stability  of  the  foam.  Specific  gravity  is  determined  by  divid- 
ing the  weight  of  a  given  volume  of  egg  white  by  the  weight  of  the  same 
volume  of  water  at  the  same  temperature.  Barmore  reports  that  foams  with 
specific  gravity  of  0.15  to  0.16  yield  good  angel  cakes.  Bailey  calculated 
foaming  power  by  means  of  the  formula : 


{^m)- 


100 


where  F  =  foaming  power  of  egg  white,  F  =  volume  of  dish  in  cubic 
centimeters,  and  IV  =  weight  of  foam  in  grams.  The  specific  gravity  of 
the  original  egg  white  was  taken  as  1.04. 

The  stability  of  a  foam  may  be  tested  by  putting  a  given  weight  of  foam 
in  a  funnel  of  known  capacity  and  bore.  The  funnel  is  covered  to  prevent 
evaporation.  If  the  funnel  is  placed  in  a  graduated  cylinder,  the  drainage 
may  be  read  in  cubic  centimeters  or  the  weight  taken  at  the  end  of  a 
definite  time,  usually  30,  40,  or  60  minutes.  When  the  egg  white  is  not 
beaten  sufficiently  both  the  unbeaten  egg  white  and  the  foam  drain  from 
the  funnel.  After  a  certain  stage  of  beating  is  reached  little  drainage 
occurs.  With  still  longer  beating  Barmore  states  the  drainage  increases. 
Work  of  students  in  the  author's  laboratory,  Keltner,  Hoskey,  and  Loaft, 
though  not  extensive  enough  to  be  conclusive,  indicates  that  better  angel 
cakes  are  obtained  if  a  certain  percentage  of  drainage  occurs,  the  exact 
amount  varying  with  different  types  of  egg  beaters. 

Salt  and  the  whipping  o£  egg  whites.  It  is  traditional  that  a  small 
amount  of  salt  added  to  egg  white  is  an  aid  in  increasing  foaming  and 
stiffness.  This  could  easily  be  tested  but  so  far  as  the  writer  knows  its  effect 
on  stability  has  not  been  reported.  It  has  been  found  that  electrolytes  are 
necessary  for  heat  coagulation  of  proteins.  They  may  also  aid  coagulation 
by  mechanical  means  or  surface  denaturation.  The  more  likely  explanation 
is  the  one  previously  given  for  protein  solutions  and  electrolytes.  The  pro- 
tein lowers  the  surface  tension  but  the  addition  of  salt  lowers  it  still  more, 
thus  causing  a  greater  concentration  of  the  protein  at  the  air/liquid  inter- 
face, hence  a  slight  stiffening.  The  addition  of  salt  may  result  in  a  slight 
salting-out  effect  and  a  stiffening  of  the  membrane  around  the  air  bubbles. 
This  would  have  the  same  result  as  in  emulsions.  For,  by  the  last  mecha- 
nism a  certain  amount  of  salt  would  bring  about  maximum  stabilization 


348  EGG  COOKERY 

of  the  emulsion  or  foam,  but  too  large  a  quantity  would  have  the  tendency 
to  break  the  emulsion  or  the  foam. 

Acids  and  stability  of  egg  white  foams.  Barmore  in  his  last 
publication  states  that  when  acid  substances  were  added  in  sufficient  quan- 
tity to  adjust  the  egg  white  to  pH  8  the  stability  of  the  foam  was  prac- 
tically the  same  for  acetic  and  citric  acids  and  for  cream  of  tartar.  But  at 
pH  6  the  cream  of  tartar  produced  the  most  stable  foam.  The  acid  sub- 
stances increased  the  stability  of  the  foams. 

The  addition  of  the  acid  delays  the  formation  of  the  foam,  i.e.,  if  beaten 
for  a  definite  time  the  foams  containing  acid  are  not  as  stiff  as  those  con- 
taining no  acid.  This  is  particularly  true  for  both  acetic  and  citric  acids. 

The  addition  of  sugar  to  egg  white  foams.  Adding  sugar  to  the 
egg  white  increases  the  stability  of  the  foam,  for  less  drainage  occurs  when 
the  egg  is  beaten  to  a  definite  stiffness.  However,  a  longer  time  is  required 
to  beat  the  egg  white,  if  the  sugar  is  added  before  the  beating  is  completed, 
but  this  also  makes  it  difficult  to  overheat  the  foam.  Because  sugar  retards 
denaturation  of  the  egg  white  foam,  it  is  a  good  practice  to  add  sugar  to 
the  egg  white  as  soon  as  beating  is  started  when  whites  for  angel  cakes 
are  whipped  at  high  speed  on  a  machine.  It  would  also  appear  that  less 
leakage  might  occur  in  meringues  for  pies  if  the  sugar  is  added  by  beating 
it  into  the  white  as  the  white  is  beaten. 

Egg  white  is  partially  coagulated  during  beating.  In  whipping 
the  egg  white  is  finely  divided,  so  that  from  the  physical  subdivision  it 
is  far  more  rigid  and  stiff.  But  the  beating  has  brought  about  other  changes 
in  the  egg  w^hite.  In  speaking  of  the  methods  by  which  coagulation  may 
be  brought  about,  Ostwald  states,  ''When  egg  white  is  beaten  to  a  foam, 
a  part  is  regularly  coagulated  in  the  walls  enclosing  the  air  bubbles.  A 
decrease  in  degree  of  dispersion  to  the  point  of  inducing  coagulation  can 
also  be  brought  about  through  centrifuging,  etc.  These  belong  to  the 
mechanical  methods  of  producing  coagulation." 

Effect  of  temperature  upon  whipping  of  eggs.  Since  a  low  sur- 
face tension  is  one  essential  for  the  formation  of  a  foam,  it  follows  that  a 
lowering  of  the  surface  tension  will  aid  its  formation.  Eggs  that  are  taken 
from  the  refrigerator  and  beaten  while  still  cold  do  not  whip  up  as  readily 
or  quickly  as  those  at  room  temperature.  Surface  tension  is  lowered  with 
increased  temperature  so  that  it  is  probably  one  factor  in  bringing  about 
this  result. 

The  Bakery  Research  Department  of  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  have 
reported  that  "regardless  of  the  length  of  time  of  beating,  a  given  sugar 
and  egg  mixture,  when  whipped  at  60°F.,  will  never  become  as  light  as 
will  a  mixture  of  the  same  proportions  beaten  at  the  same  speed  and  at  a 
temperature  of  110°F." 

St.  John  and  Flor  found  that  a  greater  volume  was  obtained  at  room 
temperature,  about  21  °C.,  than  at  refrigerator  temperature,  13°C.  A  still 
better  volume  was  obtained  at  30°C.,  but  they  report  that  while  drying 


EGG  BEATERS  349 

the  whites  to  measure  the  volume  the  liquid  part  from  those  beaten  at  the 
highest  temperature  separated  more  readily. 

Season  and  age  of  eggs  and  whipping.  The  whipping  quality  of 
eggs  varies,  according  to  the  season  in  which  they  are  produced.  Nemetz 
has  reported  experiments  in  w^hich  whole  eggs  that  had  been  broken  and 
frozen  in  April,  July,  and  September  were  used.  The  eggs  were  used  in 
sponge  cake  and  cream  puffs.  With  all  mixing  and  baking  conditions  stand- 
ardized, the  April  eggs  gave  a  15  per  cent  increase  and  the  September 
ones  a  10  per  cent  increase  in  volume  over  the  July  eggs  in  sponge  cake. 
Similar  results  were  obtained  in  cream  puffs. 

Burke  and  Niles  found  that  egg  whites  from  eggs  produced  during  the 
season  when  eggs  are  considered  less  desirable  beat  to  a  stiffer  foam  when 
beaten  the  same  length  of  time  than  the  whites  from  eggs  produced  early 
in  the  spring. 

Nemetz  states  that  if  fresh  or  frozen  eggs  are  used  in  a  similar  mix 
under  identical  conditions,  greater  volume  and  greater  yield  will  be  obtained 
from  frozen  eggs. 

Bakers  also  claim  that  egg  whites  do  not  whip  as  well  if  used  the  next 
week  after  being  frozen  as  when  they  have  been  frozen  at  least  three 
months. 

Barmore  states  that  the  older  the  eggs,  when  whites  were  beaten  for 
equal  lengths  of  time,  i.e.,  1,  2,  and  3  minutes,  the  less  stable  the  foam. 
However,  when  eggs  were  beaten  4  minutes  the  stability  was  practically 
the  same  for  all  ages  of  egg  used,  e.g.,  fresh,  3,  6,  and  9  days. 

Egg  beaters.  Egg  whisks  or  whips  are  made  with  wires  of  varying 
thickness.  The  thick  wire  does  not  whip  or  divide  the  egg  white  as  easily 
as  the  finer  wire.  The  air  cells  are  larger  than  when  a  whisk  with  finer 
wires  is  used,  though  the  size  of  the  enclosed  air  bubbles  decreases  with 
longer  beating  with  any  type  of  beater.  Whisks  with  thicker  wires  may 
require  two  to  four  times  as  many  strokes  to  beat  an  egg  white  to  a  definite 
stiffness  as  one  with  finer  wires.  Some  egg  whisks  beat  the  egg  quickly, 
dividing  it  into  many  very  fine  cells  without  giving  an  excess  of  the  curdy- 
looking  precipitate  within  the  whipped  white.  Some  produce  a  greater 
curdled  appearance  than  others,  even  when  the  egg  does  not  appear  to  be 
beaten  to  the  same  stage  of  stiffness.  With  the  type  of  whisk  that  produces 
the  very  curdled  appearance  of  the  egg  white,  the  cell  walls  of  the  omelet 
or  souffle  are  more  likely  to  collapse  during  baking,  and,  by  many  cell  walls 
running  together,  a  very  coarse  texture  is  obtained  or  the  product  falls. 
The  above  statements  regarding  whisks  also  apply  to  egg  beaters  of  the 
rotary  type.  There  is  some  variation  in  the  width  and  the  curvature  of 
the  blades  of  these  beaters. 

If  the  quotation  concerning  emulsifying  apparatus,  from  Clayton,  in  the 
chapter  on  emulsions  is  changed  to  read,  "It  is  quite  reasonable  to  believe 
that  for  any  given  egg  beater  there  exists  an  optimum  speed  or  degree  of 
agitation  or  beating,  and  an  optimum  time  of  beating,  whereby  the  most 


350  EGG  COOKERY 

perfect  beaten  egg  white  is  obtained  for  a  definite  use,"  the  statement  may 
apply  equally  to  egg  beaters. 

Longer  experience  only  emphasizes  the  importance  of  the  foregoing  quo- 
tation from  the  chapter  on  emulsions.  For  instance,  in  the  Foods  Laboratory 
a  procedure  had  been  worked  out  whereby  excellent  angel  cake  is  made  by 
beating  the  egg  white  and  adding  the  sugar,  using  high  speed  on  the 
Kitchen  Aid.  The  beating  must  be  timed  to  the  second,  because  with 
several  hundred  r.  p.  m.  a  few  seconds  too  long  makes  a  tremendous 
difference. 

When  Peet  and  Lowe  began  work  on  starting  baked  products  in  cold 
and  preheated  ovens,  it  was  necessary  to  mix  six  times  the  angel  cake 
recipe  at  one  time.  But  it  was  found  that  the  time  of  beating  the  egg  whites 
on  an  institutional,  large-sized  Hobart  mixer  had  to  be  increased  over  the 
time  used  with  the  Kitchen  Aid  to  have  the  same  stage  of  stiffness. 

Bailey  obtained  larger  volume  from  the  thick  portion  of  the  white  than 
from  the  thin  part  when  whipped  on  a  Hobart  type  mixer,  but  results 
were  opposite  on  an  electric  Dover  type. 

Barmore  states  that  with  hand  rotary  beaters  there  w^as  more  reduction 
in  viscosity  for  the  corresponding  reduction  in  specific  gravity  than  with 
the  electric  beater  used  in  his  experiments.  It  has  been  the  experience  in 
this  laboratory  that  Barmore's  hand  beaters  1  and  2  are  poor  types. 

Hand-operated  rotary  beaters  may  be  turned  at  varying  speeds.  But  fast 
initial  beating  of  egg  white  gives  a  larger  volume  to  the  egg  white. 

The  gear  ratio  for  hand-operated  rotary  beaters  is  about  1  to  5,  i.e.,  one 
turn  of  the  handle  gives  about  5  revolutions  of  the  blades.  If  the  handle 
is  turned  120  r.  p.  m.,  the  blades  would  turn  about  600  revolutions.  The 
speed  of  electric  mixers,  depending  on  the  particular  mixer,  the  speed,  and 
for  some  mixers  the  load  or  stiffness  of  material  used,  may  range  from  300 
to  2400  r.  p.  m. 

Wire  whisks  or  rotary  beaters.  One  question  that  is  constantly  asked 
regarding  the  whipping  of  egg  whites  is  whether  it  is  better  to  beat  them 
with  a  whisk  or  rotary  beater.  A  great  deal  depends  upon  whether  the 
egg  whisk  or  rotary  beater  is  a  good  type  of  its  class  or  a  poor  one.  If  the 
eggs  are  whipped  so  that  the  cells  in  the  cake  are  the  same  size  there 
seems  to  be  little  difference  in  the  finished  product.  Whisks  sometimes 
give  a  larger  volume  than  rotary  beaters  in  angel  cake. 

Combination  of  egg  albumin  with  metals.  Sometimes  in  beating  egg 
white  a  pink  color  develops.  This  is  due  to  a  combination  of  the  egg  albu- 
min with  a  metal  like  copper  or  iron.  The  color  develops  more  frequently 
when  the  acid  cream  of  tartar  is  added,  as  in  beating  egg  whites  for  angel 
cakes,  but  it  may  develop  without  its  addition.  Some  egg  beaters  have 
blades  of  copper  that  are  plated.  After  the  plating  is  worn  off  the  copper 
is  exposed.  The  pink  color  has  often  been  noticed  when  folding  sugar  into 
the  beaten  egg  whites  with  a  spatula.  Probably  some  other  factor  than  the 
presence  of  the  metal  alone  is  necessary  to  bring  about  the  color  change, 


SOFT  MERINGUES  351 

for  the  color  does  not  always  develop  when  the  egg  whites  are  beaten  with 
such  beaters  or  when  spatulas  are  used. 

Meringues 

Meringues  vary  in  the  quantity  of  sugar  added  and  in  their  use.  Only 
soft  and  hard  ones  will  be  considered  here. 

Soft  meringues.  One  general  use  for  soft  meringues  is  for  pies.  The 
factors  determining  to  the  greatest  extent  whether  a  desirable  meringue  is 
obtained  are :  the  extent  of  beating  the  egg  white,  the  adding  of  the  sugar, 
the  baking  temperature  and  time,  and  an  optimum  proportion  of  sugar  to 
egg  white.  Good  meringues  have  been  obtained  by  many  methods,  but  the 
following  method  is  successful  for  a  majority  of  the  experimenters.  Beat 
the  sugar  into  the  egg  white — preferably  during  the  latter  half  of  beating, 
but  it  may  be  added  at  the  start — w^ith  a  rotary  egg  beater,  until  the  whites 
are  stiff  and  shiny.  The  peaks  are  fairly  stiff  and  the  tip  end  only  slightly 
rounded. 

The  sugar  stabilizes  the  egg-white  foam.  Greater  stabilization  seems 
to  be  attained  when  the  opportunity  for  solution  is  greater,  i.e.,  in  beating 
instead  of  folding.  Since  adding  the  sugar  during  beating  increases  the 
time  required  for  obtaining  a  definite  stiffness,  there  is  less  danger  of  over- 
beating.  In  some  class  problems  less  leakage  of  the  meringue  has  occurred 
when  the  sugar  was  added  in  the  above  manner. 

Since  leaky  meringues  give  undesirable  moistness  and  slipperiness  to  the 
top  of  the  pastry  filling  and  make  cutting  difficult,  how  to  prevent  this 
leakage  is  a  question  frequently  asked.  The  Institute  of  American  Poultry 
Industries  states  that  there  seems  to  be  no  advantage  in  adding  a  small 
amount  of  water  to  the  meringue.  Although  water  increases  the  volume, 
there  seems  to  be  a  tendency  for  the  meringue  to  leak  a  short  time  after 
baking. 

Insufficient  beating  of  the  egg  white,  especially  if  the  sugar  is  folded 
instead  of  beaten  into  the  meringue,  after  the  sugar  is  added  is  sometimes 
a  factor  in  causing  leakage.  Over-beating  of  the  egg  white  before  sugar 
is  added  may  also  increase  the  tendency  to  leakage. 

Too  small  an  amount  of  sugar  to  each  egg  white  tends  to  give  a  less 
fluffy,  less  tender  meringue  and  one  lacking  in  sweetness.  Too  much  sugar 
tends  to  give  a  gummy  crust  or  one  containing  sugar  crystals,  though  the 
amount  of  sugar  that  can  be  used  to  obtain  a  desirable  meringue  depends 
on  the  fineness  of  the  sugar  and  perhaps  on  its  rate  of  solution.  In  general, 
2  tablespoons  of  fine  or  berry  sugar  per  egg  white  give  the  best  results. 
With  ultra-fine  crystals,  as  many  as  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  per  egg  white 
can  be  used;  whereas  with  coarser  granulated  sugar,  hitherto  used  more 
than  at  present,  less  than  2  tablespoons  per  egg  is  desirable.  Powdered 
sugar  containing  starch  is  usually  not  satisfactory  in  meringues.  Honey, 
sirup,  or  jelly  may  be  used  in  meringues,  but  only  1   tablespoon  per  egg 


352  EGG  COOKERY 

white.  Red  jellies  often  give  a  blue  rather  than  a  pink  tinge  to  the 
meringue. 

Baking  necessarily  requires  a  longer  time  at  a  lower  temperature.  All  of 
the  following  temperatures  have  been  used  successfully,  though  a  majority 
of  the  students  working  on  meringues  as  special  problems  preferred  425° 
and  400°F.:  425°F.  for  6  minutes,  400°F.  for  8  minutes,  350°F.  for  12 
to  18  minutes,  and  325°F.  for  18  to  25  minutes.  With  temperatures 
below  325 °F.,  the  time  is  long,  the  meringue  often  shrinks  after  being 
removed  from  the  oven,  and  dries  too  much. 

Hard  meringues.  Hard  meringues  contain  a  larger  proportion  of 
sugar  than  soft  meringues.  Because  of  the  high  sugar  content  they  have 
a  fairly  smooth,  somewhat  crystalline,  crisp  crust.  They  are  usually  puffy 
in  appearance  and  are  used  for  accompaniment  to,  as  a  foundation  for,  or 
as  a  dessert. 

The  optimum  amount  of  sugar  appears  to  be  4  to  5  tablespoons  per  egg 
white,  the  smaller  quantity  probably  being  preferable.  Since  acid  increases 
the  tenderness  of  egg  white,  its  addition  is  desirable.  About  1  to  2  cc.  of 
vinegar  per  egg  white  may  be  used ;  but,  since  cream  of  tartar  produces 
a  more  stable  foam  than  acetic  acid,  the  use  of  cream  of  tartar  may  be 
preferable.  About  1^  per  cent  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  between  ^  to  34 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  per  egg  white,  is  satisfactory. 

The  sugar  is  added  in  the  same  manner  as  for  soft  meringues,  but, 
because  of  the  larger  quantity  added,  better  results  are  usually  obtained 
if  it  is  added  gradually. 

Bake  on  heavy  paper  at  as  low  a  temperature  as  possible,  225°  to  275°F., 
for  40  to  60  minutes,  the  time  depending  on  the  temperature  and  size  of 
the  meringues.  If  the  meringue  is  eaten  shortly  after  baking,  the  soft 
centers,  if  not  entirely  dried  in  baking,  are  not  objectionable.  However, 
they  may  be  removed.  If  the  meringues  are  to  stand  over  night,  the  Insti- 
tute of  American  Poultry  Industries  recommends  letting  them  stand  in 
the  oven  until  cool,  after  the  heat  is  turned  off,  in  order  to  dry  the  centers. 

Omelets 

There  are  several  types  of  omelets.  They  are  designated  in  various  ways 
as  plain,  French,  and  foamy  omelets.  Some  have  a  white  sauce  or  tapioca 
basis.  In  others,  bread  crumbs  are  used  to  absorb  a  part  of  the  moisture. 
The  type  of  omelet  that  has  the  egg  yolk  folded  into  the  beaten  white  is 
sometimes  called  a  foamy  omelet.  This  is  the  type  that  requires  the  most 
skill  in  making  and  is  the  one  mentioned  here. 

Method  of  mixing  foamy  omelet.  The  yolk  is  beaten  until  foamy 
and  then  folded  into  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  The  cooked  omelet  should 
be  light,  tender,  and  foamy,  and  it  should  not  collapse  or  fall  after  cook- 
ing, though  some  shrinkage  usually  occurs.  Whether  the  product  obtained 
fulfils  these  conditions  depends  to  a  great  extent  upon  the  amount  of  beat- 


ADDITION  OF  LIQUID  TO  FOAMY  OMELET        353 

ing  of  the  egg  white,  the  mixing  of  the  egg  white  and  the  yolk,  and  a 
proper  cooking  temperature.  The  egg  whites  for  omelets  need  to  be 
whipped  nearly  or  quite  stiff  enough  to  stay  in  an  inverted  bowl.  Unless 
they  are  sufficiently  stiff  there  is  a  tendency  for  the  liquid  to  drain  to 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl  or  cooking  pan.  After  the  yolks  are  mixed  with  the 
whites  this  tendency  is  increased.  Sometimes  the  liquid  portion  does  collect 
in  the  bottom  of  the  cooking  pan  and  coagulates  there  while  cooking,  form- 
ing a  thick  compact  layer.  This  is  due  to  insufficient  beating  of  the  whites, 
or  insufficient  mixing  of  the  yolk  with  the  white,  so  that  the  yolk  is  not 
sufficiently  blended  through  the  white  to  be  held  up  by  the  framework 
or  physical  structure  of  the  whipped  white,  or  it  may  be  due  to  standing  too 
long  after  mixing  before  cooking  is  started.  The  pan  into  which  the  omelet 
is  poured  should  be  hot  enough  to  start  coagulation  of  the  egg,  but  not 
hot  enough  to  form  a  hard  crust.  However,  over-mixing  and  rough  han- 
dling cause  loss  of  too  large  a  portion  of  the  air  incorporated  into  the 
egg  white.  Over-beating  of  the  egg  white  before  the  yolk  is  added  results 
in  loss  of  extensibility,  and  the  volume  of  the  omelet  does  not  increase  as 
much  as  it  should  during  baking.  It  is  also  drier  and  sometimes  powdery. 
But  with  omelets  it  seems  better  to  err  a  little  on  the  side  of  over-beating 
rather  than  under-beating. 

Formation  of  ferrous  sulfide  in  omelets.  The  green  color  develops 
on  the  bottom  of  the  omelet  only  when  some  of  the  egg  has  separated  and 
drained  to  the  bottom.  It  is  due  to  the  formation  of  hydrogen  sulfide  from 
the  white  and  its  combination  with  iron  of  the  yolk.  It  may  be  prevented 
by  sufficient  beating  of  the  egg  white,  by  thoroughly  blending  the  yolk 
and  white,  or  by  starting  cooking  promptly.  The  color  may  develop  in 
omelets  cooked  on  top  of  the  stove,  or  in  those  cooked  in  Pyrex,  but  occurs 
more  often  in  baked  ones,  for  the  baking  requires  a  longer  time. 

Effect  of  addition  of  a  liquid  to  a  foamy  omelet.  A  tablespoon 
of  water  for  each  egg  is  usually  added  to  the  white  or  to  the  yolk.  If  to 
the  white  of  the  egg,  it  may  be  added  before  the  white  is  beaten  or  after 
it  is  beaten  enough  to  become  frothy  but  not  stiff.  The  volume  of  the 
beaten  white  with  the  addition  of  the  liquid  is  usually  greater  than  an 
egg  white  without  the  added  liquid.  Sometimes  other  factors  due  to  size 
of  the  egg,  its  deterioration  in  quality,  or  other  causes  affect  its  beating 
qualities  and  a  poor  volume  is  attained.  It  has  already  been  stated  that 
increasing  alkalinity  tends  to  prevent  coagulation.  Thus  very  old  eggs  may 
not  beat  as  well  as  fresher  ones.  The  hydration  of  the  white  increases  the 
tenderness  of  the  omelet  as  well  as  its  elasticity.  The  white  being  more 
elastic,  a  larger  volume  is  obtained  during  cooking.  If  too  much  water  is 
added  to  the  egg  a  point  is  reached  at  which  the  white  becomes  too  tender 
and  too  many  cells  break  when  the  air  expands  during  cooking.  Evidently 
the  addition  of  water  to  egg  white  retards  coagulation  by  beating,  for  a 
longer  time  is  required  to  beat  the  white  to  a  definite  stage  than  when  no 


354  EGG  COOKERY 

liquid  is  added.  This  retardation  of  coagulation  may  be  due  to  the  lessened 
concentration  of  the  egg  white. 

Kind  o£  liquid  in  omelets.  The  liquid  added  to  foamy  omelets  may 
be  water,  vegetable  juice,  tomato  juice,  or  a  mixture  of  one-third  lemon 
juice  and  two-thirds  water.  If  a  tablespoon  of  milk  is  added  to  an  egg  white 
it  will  not  form  a  foam.  If  added  to  the  beaten  white  the  volume  is  quickly 
reduced  and  the  foam  is  destroyed.  Dizmang  and  Sunderlin  investigated 
the  effect  of  milk  on  the  whipping  quality  of  egg  white.  Their  results  are 
given  in  Table  42,  and  indicate  that  the  fat  of  the  milk  is  responsible  lor 
breaking  the  foam.  But  the  size  of  the  fat  globules  is  also  important, 
smaller  particles  having  less  effect. 

TABLE  42 

The  Efffxt  of  Milk  on  Whipping  Quality  of  Egg  Whites 

{Dizmang  and  Simderlin) 

Largest  number  of  drops  added  to 

Substance  added  to  one  egg  white,  permitting  formation 

egg  white  of  foam  stiff  enough  to  stay  in  an 

inverted  bowl 

Cream  (20%  fat) 1-2 

Whole  milk 2-3 

Sterilized  whole  milk 8 

Reconstituted  powdered  whole  milk 50-70 

Cream  (20%  fat)  homogenized,  3000  lbs.    .  .  70 

Evaporated  milk 50-350 

Separated  milk 400-446 

Whole  milk,  homogenized,  2500  lbs 400-450 

Whole  milk  homogenized  at  3000  lbs 1000 

Reconstituted  powdered  separated  milk.  .  .  .  1600 

The  addition  of  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  2  teaspoons  of  water  to 
an  egg  white  brings  the  reaction  to  about  />H  4.8,  the  isoelectric  point 
of  the  egg  albumin.  It  may  be  higher  or  lower,  depending  on  the  original 
^H  and  perhaps  the  size  of  the  egg.  The  addition  of  a  tablespoon  of  tomato 
juice  to  an  egg  white  does  not  lower  the  pH  to  4.8.  The  addition  of  tomato 
juice  and  the  lemon  juice  results  in  a  more  tender  omelet,  and  one  of 
greater  volume,  if  the  conditions  of  mixing  have  been  standardized,  if  the 
liquid  is  added  after  the  egg  white  is  partially  beaten,  and  if  beaten  to  the 
same  degree  of  stiffness.  Tomato  juice  requires  longer  for  whipping  than 
the  water,  and  the  mixture  of  lemon  juice  and  water  requires  still  longer 
than  the  tomato  juice.  The  addition  of  the  acid  tomato  and  of  the  lemon 
lessens  the  alkalinity  of  the  egg  white.  Bogue  has  reported  that  the  foam- 
ing properties  of  gelatin  are  greatest  at  the  isoelectric  point.  If  the  foaming 
properties  of  egg  white  are  also  greater  at  the  isoelectric  point,  a  greater 


REVIEW  OF  LITERATURE  ON  ANGEL  CAKE         355 

volume  might  be  expected  at  pH  4.8.  This  greater  volume  is  usually 
obtained,  with  the  addition  of  tomato  or  lemon  juice,  but  a  longer  whipping 
time  is  required.  Tomato  and  lemon  both  contain  citric  acid.  The  greater 
tenderness  with  the  use  of  tomato  juice  and  lemon  juice  probably  results 
from  a  peptizing  effect  of  the  citrate  ion  on  the  egg  protein.  If  lemon  juice 
is  merely  added  to  egg  white  without  whipping  it,  coagulation  of  the  egg 
white  is  produced,  but  with  beating  the  lemon  juice  is  thoroughly  mixed 
with  the  egg  white.  A  better  volume  is  usually  obtained  if  the  egg  white 
is  beaten  until  frothy  before  the  lemon  juice  or  tomato  juice  is  added. 

Temperature  for  cooking  omelets.  Omelets  are  usually  cooked  above 
heat,  but  baking  them  in  the  oven  is  an  easy  method  to  secure  uniform 
temperatures  for  class  work.  A  temperature  of  160°  to  165°C.  is  a  good 
one  to  use.  If  the  temperature  is  too  low  the  omelet  tends  to  separate  while 
cooking,  the  liquid  portion  collecting  in  the  bottom  of  the  cooking  utensil 
and  forming  a  solid  mass  with  the  foamy  part  on  top.  Too  high  a  tempera- 
ture for  cooking  leaves  the  inside  of  the  omelet  too  moist  unless  the  outer 
portion  is  over-cooked  and  thus  toughened.  In  cooking  over  the  heat  the 
omelet  needs  to  be  covered.  The  omelet  can  be  placed  under  the  broiler  to 
brown  the  top  quickly. 

Angel   Cake 

Angel  and  sponge  cakes  are  included  under  egg  cookery  because  they 
logically  belong  here  and  not  under  batters  and  doughs.  The  texture  of  the 
finished  cake  depends  chiefly  upon  the  manipulation  of  the  egg,  and  the 
cooking  temperature  corresponds  to  that  used  for  egg  cookery. 

Review  o£  literature  on  angel  cake.  Excellent  work  has  been 
reported  from  different  laboratories  on  angel  and  sponge  cake  and  a  review 
of  this  literature  seems  rather  imperative. 

Hunt  and  St.  John  separated  the  thick  and  the  thin  portion  of  egg 
whites.  The  average  volume  of  the  cakes  from  the  thin  portions  was  greater 
than  for  the  cakes  made  from  the  thick  portions.  They  have  also  reported 
that  the  volumes  of  angel  food  cakes  made  from  egg  whites  beaten  at 
room  temperature,  21  °C.,  were  larger  than  cakes  made  from  similar  whites 
beaten  at  5°C.  The  grain  of  the  cakes  made  from  whites  beaten  at  room 
temperature  was  finer  and  the  cakes  more  tender  than  those  from  whites 
beaten  at  5°C. 

Hedstrom,  in  studying  the  effect  of  the  consistency  of  the  egg  white  on 
the  volume  and  texture  of  angel  cakes,  found  the  percentage  of  thin  white 
increased,  as  did  the  />H,  with  increased  age  of  the  eggs.  The  effect  of  age 
of  the  eggs  on  the  volume  of  the  cakes  is  shown  in  Fig.  35.  It  is  obvious 
that  there  are  some  discrepancies  in  these  results.  Nevertheless,  they  are 
given  here,  for  further  work,  which  is  not  complete,  appears  to  substantiate 
these  results  in  that  cake  volume  decreases  with  increased  age  of  the  eggs. 


356 


EGG  COOKERY 


Barmore's  results  of  investigating  the  influence  of  chemical  and  physical 
factors  on  egg-w^hite  foams  are  as  foUow^s:  stability  of  the  foams  was 
determined  by  beating  the  egg  white  with  an  electric  food  mixer  and 
photographing  the  foams  2  and  10  minutes  after  beating  had  stopped.  The 
specific  gravity  of  foams  was  determined.  Stability  of  the  foams  was  further 
determined  by  placing  the  egg-white  foam  in  a  funnel  and  determining  the 
drainage  at  definite  intervals. 


1 
I 

Average  of  Seven 

or  More  Cakes 

Than  Seven  Cakes 

— 

— 

\ 
1 

\ 

A 

\ 

,1 

._j 

'^ 

y 

V'/ 

\_ 

\ 

:; 

\ 

\. 

/ 

\ 

s 

^ 

S 

\ 

\ 

V 

-^ 

^ 

^ 

■^ 

620 
610\ 
600 
O590 

o580 

S 
^570 

o 
>560 

<u 

-^550 
U 
^540 

S530 

<520 

510 

500 

490 

0      4       8      12     16      20     24     28     32     36     40     44     48     52 

Age  of  Eggs  in  Days 
Fig.   35. — Relation  of  angel  cake  volume  to  the   age  of  the   eggs.    (Hedstrom.) 

It  was  found  that  the  older  the  eggs,  the  lighter  the  specific  gravity  of 
the  foam  after  beating  for  a  definite  period  of  time.  The  addition  of 
potassium  acid  tartrate,  citric,  and  acetic  acid  increased  the  stability  of  the 
foams.  The  longer  the  foam  is  beaten,  the  less  stable  it  becomes  so  that  its 
stability  is  inversely  proportional  to  its  specific  gravity. 

Stanley  states  that  the  thin  w^hite  beats  up  to  a  larger  volume  than  the 
thick  white.  But  the  volume  of  the  cake  made  from  the  thick  white  is 
larger  than  that  made  from  the  thin  white  and  cakes  made  from  the 
thick  white  have  greater  elasticity. 

Barmore  reported  from  his  investigations  o'n  baking  angel  cake  at  various 
altitudes  that  increasing  the  egg  or  flour,  or  both,  in  an  angel  cake  in- 
creases its  tensile  strength.  Conversely,  increasing  the  sugar  decreases  the 
tensile  strength  or  increases  the  tenderness.  Barmore  says  that  his  formula, 

F-.43*S-. 41^ +  24.5  =  0, 

gives  all  the  possible,  successful  recipes  for  this  type  of  flour  mixture  for 


REVIEW  OF  LITERATURE  ON  ANGEL  CAKE        357 

any  habitable  altitude.  F  represents  flour  in  grams ;  S,  sugar  in  grams ;  and 
A,  altitude  in  thousands  of  feet.  The  egg  white  was  kept  constant  at  210 
grams  and  the  flour  should  be  not  less  than  40  nor  exceed  80  grams  for 
this  proportion  of  egg  white.  For  1  gram  of  egg  white  this  allows  0.19  and 
0.39  gram  of  flour  respectively. 

King,  Morris,  and  Whiteman  investigated  "some  methods  and  apparatus 
used  in  measuring  the  quality  of  eggs  for  cake  making."  The  physical  and 
chemical  measurements  made  on  the  eggs  were  carbon  dioxide  content  of 
the  white  and  the  yolk,  /)H  and  total  solids  on  white,  yolk,  and  magma, 
and  viscosity  of  the  magma.  They  say  more  work  should  be  done  on  the 
relation  between  CO2  content  and  /)H  before  it  can  be  said  that  the 
increase  in  /)H  of  the  white  is  due  entirely  to  a  loss  of  CO2.  The  lifting 
power  of  the  eggs  was  based  on  measurements  of  specific  gravity  and  /)H 
of  the  cake  batter  and  on  volume,  tensile  strength,  and  compressibility  of 
the  sponge  cakes.  They  report  that  the  chemical  and  physical  properties 
of  the  eggs  so  far  measured  have  shown  no  definite  relation  to  the  various 
cake  measurements. 

Barmore  determined  ''the  influence  of  various  factors,  including  altitude, 
in  the  production  of  angel  food  cake."  He  concludes  that  the  whites  of 
fresh  eggs  should  be  beaten  with  1  to  2  per  cent  of  cream  of  tartar  to  a 
specific  gravity  of  not  less  than  0.15  and  not  more  than  0.17.  Part  or  all 
of  the  sugar  should  be  added  before  the  addition  of  any  of  the  flour,  for 
the  addition  of  the  sugar  strengthened  the  egg-white  foam;  whereas  the 
volume  of  the  batter  decreased  considerably  more  when  the  flour  was 
added  with  the  sugar  than  when  it  was  added  by  itself,  after  the  sugar 
had  been  beaten  into  the  egg  foam.  A  summary  of  Barmore's  extensive 
investigations  follows : 

At  /)H  8  the  stability  of  the  egg-white  foam  was  practically  the  same 
for  acetic  and  citric  acids  and  cream  of  tartar.  But  at  /)H  6  the  cream  of 
tartar  produced  the  most  stable  foam. 

Cakes  baked  at  178°C.  for  30  minutes  had  larger  volume,  were  more 
moist  and  more  tender,  probably  because  of  larger  volume,  than  cakes 
baked  at  163°,  152°,  or  at  138°C.  The  last  required  100  minutes  for 
baking.  Baking  at  the  highest  oven  temperature  produced  an  interior  tem- 
perature about  2°C.  higher  than  in  cakes  baked  at  the  lowest  temperature, 
though  the  difference  in  oven  temperature  was  40 °C. 

Eggs  several  days  old  made  poorer  cakes  than  fresh  eggs.  The  reason 
suggested  for  this  is  hydrolysis  of  the  egg  proteins  rather  than  increased 
proportion  of  thin  whites. 

No  moisture  was  lost  by  evaporation  by  any  portion  of  the  cake  farther 
from  the  outer  edge  than  1  cm.  *'Cake  baked  at  the  low  temperature 
appeared  to  contain  less  moisture,  because  the  center  of  the  cake  felt  and 
tasted  much  drier  than  that  baked  at  a  higher  temperature  for  a  shorter 


358  EGG  COOKERY 

time.  The  data  show  that  one  was  just  as  moist  in  the  center  as  the  other. 
The  difference  in  feel  was  apparently  occasioned  by  the  difference  in  the 
condition  or  location  of  the  moisture.  Perhaps  in  the  low-temperature  cake 
the  moisture  had  been  more  completely  removed  from  the  sugar  solution 
and  absorbed  by  the  starch  or  protein,  because  of  the  greater  length  of 
time  the  cake  was  maintained  at  a  high  temperature." 

In  studying  the  influence  of  acid  and  sugar  on  the  initial  coagulation 
temperature  of  egg  white  (different  proportions  of  sugar  and  acid  added  to 
egg  white,  placed  in  test  tubes  for  heating)  it  was  found  that  sugar  in- 
creased but  acid  lowered  the  initial  coagulation  temperature  of  the  egg 
white.  Adding  both  sugar  and  acid  in  proportions  used  in  cakes  raised  the 
temperature  at  which  coagulation  of  the  egg  w^hite  started.  However,  in 
spite  of  the  lowered  initial  coagulation  of  the  egg  white  by  the  addition  of 
acid,  its  addition  increased  the  tenderness  of  the  egg  white.  In  the  test  with 
egg  white  coagulated  at  various  temperatures  it  was  found  that  the  lower 
the  temperature  at  which  coagulation  occurred  the  more  tender  the  egg 
white. 

''With  increases  in  altitude  it  has  been  shown  that  the  amount  of  expan- 
sion during  baking  increases;  the  cake  becomes  more  tender;  the  final  cake 
volume  changes  and  is  related  to  tenderness;  the  amount  and  rate  of 
evaporation  increases;  the  maximum  internal  cake  temperature  decreases; 
the  volume  of  the  vapor  escaping  increases;  and  the  color  of  the  crust 
becomes  lighter." 

Peet  and  Lowe  baked  angel  food  cakes  in  six  ranges,  three  electric,  two 
gas,  and  one  kerosene.  Cakes  were  baked  in  ranges  cold  at  the  start  and  in 
preheated  ovens. 

The  results  of  analysis  of  scores  showed  that  the  judges  did  not  dif- 
ferentiate among  cakes  baked  in  the  different  ranges  for  total  score,  texture, 
and  eating  quality.  However,  for  these  same  points  the  judges  thought 
the  cakes  baked  in  the  preheated  ovens  were  superior  to  those  baked  in  the 
same  ranges  from  a  cold  start.  Furthermore,  these  differences,  as  shown  by 
analysis  of  variance,  were  highly  significant. 

The  scores  for  moistness  w^ere  higher  for  cakes  baked  in  preheated  ovens 
but  these  results  were  not  analyzed  statistically. 

Tenderness  was  tested  in  two  ways,  one  subjective  and  one  objective 
test.  The  analysis  of  scores  for  tenderness  indicated  that  the  cakes  baked 
in  some  ranges  were  more  tender  than  cakes  baked  in  other  ranges.  The 
statistical  analysis  showed  that  these  results  were  significant.  The  judges, 
as  indicated  by  scores,  considered  there  were  still  greater  differences  in 
tenderness  of  cakes  baked  from  a  cold  and  from  preheated  starts,  than  for 
cakes  baked  in  different  ranges.  These  results  were  highly  significant,  the 
cakes  started  in  preheated  ovens  being  tenderer  than  those  baked  from  a 
cold  start.  The  analysis  of  data  obtained  by  tensile  strength  measurements 
also  indicated  significant  differences  in  tenderness  of  cakes  baked  in  dif- 


REVIEW  OF  LITERATURE  ON  ANGEL  CAKE         359 

ferent  ranges  and  highly  significant  differences  between  cakes  started  in 
cold  and  preheated  ovens,  those  started  in  preheated  ovens  being  more 
tender.  The  correlation  coefficient  between  the  two  methods  of  testing  ten- 
derness was  —.4014,  which  was  significant.  This  indicates  that  in  general 
there  was  agreement  in  the  two  methods  of  testing  tenderness. 

The  volumes  of  cakes  varied  in  the  different  ranges,  the  results  being 
significant,  i.e.,  cakes  of  larger  volume  were  obtained  in  some  ranges  than 
in  others.  The  volumes  of  cakes  baked  in  preheated  ovens  were  greatest, 
and  the  differences  were  significant. 

Burke  and  Niles  made  angel  food  cake  on  the  same  day  of  the  week 
throughout  the  year,  from  eggs  of  the  same  age,  produced  by  the  same 
flock  on  controlled  feed  for  the  duration  of  the  experiment.  The  quality 
of  the  cakes,  at  first  fairly  good,  decreased  to  a  low  in  November.  After 
a  slight  rise  in  December  there  was  again  a  decline  in  January.  A  notice- 
able increase  in  quality  occurred  in  February  and  March.  They  state  that 
the  egg-white  foams  during  the  "low"  and  ''high"  periods  seemed  to  differ 
in  the  time  required  to  beat  to  the  stiff  stage.  During  the  "low"  period  the 
whites  seemed  much  stiffer  and  less  tender  than  those  in  the  "high"  when 
beaten  for  the  same  length  of  time.  They  state  that  perhaps,  if  the  amount 
of  beating  were  standardized  according  to  some  factor  other  than  time  for 
beating,  excellent  cakes  could  be  made  during  the  "low"  months  as  well  as 
the  "high." 

One  cake  each  week  was  baked  at  350°F.  for  45  minutes,  and  three 
cakes  at  325 °F.  for  1  hour.  Consistently  throughout  the  year  the  moisture 
loss  was  less  and  the  volume  usually  noticeably  larger  for  the  cakes  baked 
at  the  higher  temperature.  The  average  moisture  loss  for  the  year  was  11.2 
and  9.6  per  cent,  and  the  average  volume  7.79  and  7.85  cm.,  respectively, 
for  cakes  baked  at  325°  and  350°F. 

King,  Whiteman,  and  Rose  investigated  the  effect  on  the  cake-making 
quality  of  some  egg-production  factors.  The  physical  and  chemical  measure- 
ments of  eggs,  cake  batter,  and  sponge  cake  were  the  same  as  those  reported 
for  King,  Morris,  and  Whiteman,  with  the  exception  that  elasticity  or 
recovery  of  the  cake  crumb  is  added  in  the  present  study.  They  found  that 
five  different  diets  of  the  hens  did  not  affect  the  properties  of  the  eggs  or 
the  quality  of  the  cake  made  from  them.  Most  of  the  eggs  used  were 
obtained  over  a  period  of  seven  months  (December- June),  beginning  about 
three  months  after  the  hens  started  laying,  and  were  collected  and  dipped 
in  mineral  oil  saturated  with  carbon  dioxide.  They  found  no  progressive 
change  in  the  properties  of  the  eggs  or  the  quality  of  the  cakes  over  the 
period  in  the  laying  cycle  of  the  hen  or  the  seasons  of  the  year  studied.  As 
in  the  earlier  study  they  found  no  apparent  relationship  between  the  physi- 
cal and  chemical  properties  of  the  eggs  studied  and  the  quality  values  of 
the  cakes. 


360 


EGG  COOKERY 


"There  was  a  relationship  between  the  specific  volume,  elasticity,  and 
compressibility  of  the  sponge  cakes,  and  between  the  pH  and  specific 
gravity  of  the  batter  from  which  the  cakes  were  baked. 

"Findings  of  an  earlier  study  which  indicated  that  there  is  no  relation- 
ship between  pH  and  COo  content  of  egg  white  were  confirmed." 

Formulas  for  angel  cake.  Because  formulas  mean  more  to  many 
cooks  than  equations,  the  data  in  Table  43  have  been  compiled. 

TABLE  43 
Formulas  for  Angel  Food  Cake 


Egg 

white 

Sugar 

Flour 

Cream 
of 

Amount 

Formula 

Meas. 

Wt. 

Meas. 

Wt. 

Meas. 

Wt. 

of 
salt 

Cups 

Gm. 

Cups 

Gm. 

Cups 

Gm. 

tartar 

I    .... 

244 

n4 

250 

1 

100 

Xt. 

II    .... 

244 

W 

300 

1 

100 

Xt. 

Ill    .... 

1>^ 

366 

W 

300 

1 

100 

l>^t. 

'At. 

IV   .... 

1^ 

366 

IX 

250 

4/5 

80 

A  t. 

V   .... 

ux 

427 

W 

300 

1 

100 

At. 

VI    .... 

244 

1 

200 

1 

100 

At. 

VII    .... 

246 

23l6 

266 

% 

90 

At. 

VIII   .... 

246 

1^6 

169 

K 

48 

At. 

IX   .... 

246 

VA 

222 

% 

90 

At. 

Only  the  first  five  formulas  have  been  made  in  class  work  at  900-feet 
elevation.  Excellent  cakes  may  be  made  from  these  five  formulas,  though  II 
is  less  likely  to  be  successful.  The  last  three  formulas  are  from  Barmore's 
tables;  VII  and  VIII  are  for  1000-feet  elevation  with  the  largest  and 
smallest  amounts  of  flour  advocated,  respectively.  Further  analysis  of  these 
formulas  is  found  in  Table  44. 

Since  sugar  tends  to  prevent  coagulation  of  the  egg  white,  there  is  an 
amount  of  sugar  which,  if  exceeded,  will  prevent  coagulation  to  such  an 
extent  that  the  cake  is  so  tender  it  will  fall.  It  is  desirable  to  use  an  amount 
that  will  just  prevent  the  cake  from  falling.  However,  this  particular 
amount  of  sugar  will  depend  somewhat  upon  the  amount  of  flour.  The 
flour  increases  the  toughness  of  the  cake.  Hence  there  is  a  ratio  of  sugar 
to  flour,  so  that,  within  certain  limits,  as  the  sugar  is  decreased  the  flour 
must  also  be  decreased.  For  the  formulas  given  the  ratio  of  sugar  to  flour 
is  3  to  1  in  four  of  the  recipes  and  2.5  to  1  in  the  standard  recipe. 

The  illustrations  are  all  for  angel  cakes  which  were  baked  from  the 
same  quantity  of  material,  one-sixth  of  the  recipe.  The  pans  were  small 
ones  so  that  the  photographs  are  nearly  actual  size.  Thus  the  illustrations 


BEATING  EGG  WHITES  FOR  ANGEL  CAKE 


361 


TABLE  44 

Amount  of  Sugar  and  Flour  per  Gram  of  Egg  White  and  Ratio  of  Sugar 
TO  Flour  (Angel  Cake) 


Formula  and  source 


Egg  white 
Gm. 


Sugar 

Flour 

Gm. 

Gm. 

1.02 

0.41 

1.23 

0.41 

0.82 

0.27 

0.68 

0.23 

0.70 

0.22 

0.82 

0.41 

1.08 

0.36 

0.69 

0.20 

0.90 

0.36 

Ratio  of  sugar 
to  flour 


I     Standard 

II     

III  Thirteen  egg 

IV  Cedarquist 

V  Prize  (I.  A.  P.  I.)*. 

VI  Hunt  and  St.  John 

VII  Barmore  (1000  ft.) 

VIII  Barmore  (1000  ft.) 

IX  Barmore  (5000  ft.) 


2.5 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.1 
2.0 
2.9 
3.5 
2.5 


*  Institute  American  Poultry  Industries. 

show  the  comparative  volume  of  the  cakes,  and  the  cells  are  nearly  actual 
size. 

Beating  the  egg  whites  for  angel  cake.  The  beating  of  the  egg 
whites  is  one  of  the  important  steps  in  making  angel  cake.  For  the  best 
results,  the  whites  should  not  be  beaten  quite  as  stiff  as  for  foamy  omelets 
and  souffles.  The  probable  reasons  for  this  are  the  stabilizing  influence  of 
sugar  on  the  egg-white  foam  and  the  absorption  of  moisture  by  the  flour. 

If  the  egg  whites  are  not  beaten  a  cake  of  small  volume  and  very  soggy 
texture  is  obtained.  When  the  egg  white  is  beaten  the  volume  of  the  cake 
increases  with  the  degree  of  stiffness  of  the  whites,  until  a  stage  is  reached 
at  which  the  greatest  volume  is  attained.  Continued  beating  of  the  egg 
white  after  that  to  produce  the  maximum  volume  gradually  reduces  the 
volume  of  the  cake,  the  reduction  in  volume  being  in  proportion  to  the 
amount  of  over-beating  of  the  egg  white.  The  influence  of  the  extent  of 
beating  the  egg  white  on  the  volume  of  the  cake  is  shown  in  Figs.  40  and 
41,  Experiments  69, C  and  E. 

Result  of  insufficient  beating  of  the  egg  white.  The  egg  whites  for  the 
cakes  in  Fig.  40,  Experiment  69C,  were  all  beaten  together.  One-third 
of  the  total  weight  of  the  egg  white  was  removed  for  cake  1  after  the  egg 
whites  were  beaten  until  they  flowed  when  the  bowl  was  partially  inverted. 
The  volume  is  less  than  when  the  whites  were  beaten  to  flow  very  slowly 
for  cake  2.  When  the  egg  whites  are  whipped  too  little,  not  as  much  air 
is  enclosed  and  the  film  of  egg  white  surrounding  the  air  bubbles  is  not 
as  thin  as  it  is  with  longer  beating.  If  the  egg  white  is  beaten  still  less 
than  for  the  illustration,  the  volume  is  still  smaller.  With  very  little  beat- 
ing,  the  egg  white  is  quite   runny  and   the  cake   is   tough   and   compact. 


362  EGG  COOKERY 

Occasionally  a  gummy  layer  is  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  baked  cake.  It  is 
often  difficult  to  give  an  explanation  for  this,  but  it  may  sometimes  be  due 
to  insufficient  whipping  of  the  egg  whites. 

Maximum  beating  of  the  egg  white.  The  whites  for  the  cakes  in  Fig. 
37,  for  cake  2,  Fig.  40,  and  for  cake  1,  Fig.  41,  were  beaten  until  the 
tip  end  of  peaks  was  slightly  rounded  and  fallen.  The  cakes  are  more 
tender  and  have  a  larger  volume  than  when  the  whites  are  not  beaten 
sufficiently.  The  appearance  and  stiffness  of  the  egg  whites  for  a  maximum 
volume  in  the  cake  vary  slightly  with  the  type  and  kind  of  egg  beater  used. 


Fig.  36. — The  bowl  on  the  right  with  the  sloping  sides  is  a  good  type  for  mixing 
and  folding. 

The  bowl  on  the  left  has  sides  that  are  too  straight  for  efficient  folding. 

The  spatula  on  the  right  has  a  round  handle  that  fits  the  hand. 

The  spatula  on  the  left  has  4  edges  that  tend  to  blister  the  hand  with  long  folding. 

With  a  maximum  volume  of  the  cake  the  cell  walls  are  thinner,  w^hich 
tends  to  produce  a  more  tender  cake. 

Effect  of  over-beating  the  egg  white.  For  cake  3,  Fig.  40,  the  egg  whites 
were  beaten  until  quite  stiff.  The  volume  is  decidedly  less  than  for  cake  2. 
Longer  beating  results  in  a  still  smaller  volume,  see  cake  3,  Fig.  41.  The 
smaller  volume  with  over-beating  is  due  to  excess  coagulation  of  the  egg 
white  by  beating.  This  lessens  the  elasticity  of  the  egg  white;  hence,  w^hen 
the  air  bubbles  enclosed  in  the  beaten  egg  white  expand  from  the  heat 
during  baking,  some  of  the  cell  walls  rupture  instead  of  expanding.  When 
a  number  of  the  cells  rupture  during  baking,  several  cell  walls  coalesce,  the 
cell  walls  are  thicker,  and  the  volume  is  reduced. 

Mixing  angel  cake.  After  the  egg  whites  are  beaten  the  other  ingre- 
dients are  folded  into  the  cake.  The  water,  cream  of  tartar,  and  the  salt  are 
added  to  the  partially  beaten  egg  whites.  The  flavoring  may  also  be  added 
to  the  egg  white  at  the  same  time  as  the  cream  of  tartar.  This  eliminates 
extra  folding  after  the  sugar  and  flour  are  added.  For  directions  for  fold- 
ing, see  Experiment  68 ;  and  for  types  of  bowls.  Fig.  36. 


MIXING  ANGEL  CAKE  363 

Sugar.  The  sugar  may  be  folded  into  the  egg  whites  after  they  are 
beaten  or  whipped  with  the  whites.  The  latter  is  sometimes  called  the 
meringue  method.  A  certain  amount  of  folding  of  the  sugar  with  the  egg 
white  results  in  a  cake  of  the  best  texture  and  tenderness.  Too  little  folding 
does  not  blend  the  sugar  sufficiently  with  the  beaten  whites ;  then  the  flour 
does  not  fold  in  readily  and  heavy  spots  may  be  found  throughout  the 
cake.  They  may  be  quite  small,  but  soggy  and  thick,  and  sometimes  they 
contain  just  a  trace  of  dry  flour  in  the  thickened  spot.  Such  a  spot  is  shown 
in  Fig.  37,  cake  1.  The  cakes  usually  increase  in  volume  with  longer  folding 
of  the  sugar,  reaching  a  maximum  with  about  60  strokes;  then  a  slight 
decrease  occurs  with  longer  mixing.  Sometimes  the  maximum  volume  occurs 
after  folding  about  40  strokes  and  sometimes  after  about  80  strokes.  The 
tenderness  of  the  cakes  usually  varies  more  with  longer  folding  of  the  sugar 
than  the  volume. 

When  the  sugar  is  whipped  into  the  whites,  it  may  be  added  before 
whipping  is  started  but  this  materially  lengthens  the  time  for  whipping.  The 
preferable  time  for  adding  the  sugar  is  after  the  cream  of  tartar  and  salt 
are  added.  The  sugar  is  added  gradually  for  hand  beaters  and  the  whites 
beaten  until  stif¥  and  shiny.  The  peaks  stand  up  with  slight  rounding  or 
bending  of  the  tip  ends. 

The  meringue  method  is  particularly  good  to  use  with  an  electric  beater, 
for  the  rapid  revolutions  can  soon  over-whip  the  whites  to  the  dry  stage. 
Adding  the  sugar  during  whipping  of  the  whites  increases  the  time  for 
beating  but  also  tends  to  prevent  mechanical  coagulation  and  tends  to  pre- 
vent leakage,  thus  stabilizing  the  foam. 

In  class  work  about  nine  times  out  of  ten  better  results  are  obtained  if  all 
or  at  least  half  of  the  sugar  is  added  to  the  egg  white  before  any  of  the 
flour  is  added.  Barmore  reports  the  same  result.  Yet  one  person  that  the 
writer  knows  who  makes  excellent  angel  cakes  always  mixes  all  the  sugar 
and  flour  together  and  then  adds  it  to  the  egg  white.  It  illustrates  a  point 
that  constantly  impresses  all  who  have  a  chance  to  observe  different  people 
work  with  foods.  There  is  no  one  method  that  always  produces  the  best 
result.  It  seems  best  to  give  the  method  or  methods  successfully  used  by 
the  majority. 

However,  adding  about  three-fourths  of  the  sugar  to  the  egg  whites  and 
sifting  the  remainder  with  the  flour  make  the  flour  easier  to  incorporate. 
Hence,  the  flour  can  be  added  with  less  folding  with  the  result  that  tough- 
ness is  not  increased  from  long  folding  and  the  volume  of  the  foam  is  not 
materially  reduced.  Mixing  the  sugar  and  the  flour  before  adding  to  the 
egg  white  has  not  produced  as  satisfactory  results  as  folding  the  sugar  first. 
As  one  student  remarked,  *'The  addition  of  the  sugar  to  the  egg  white 
seems  to  prepare  the  egg  for  blending  with  the  flour." 

Flour.  The  flour  is  folded  into  the  mixed  sugar  and  egg  w^hite.  Here 
the  amount  of  mixing  also  affects  the  volume  and  tenderness  of  the  cake. 
Too  little  mixing  does  not  blend  the  flour  sufficiently  with  the  sugar  and 


364 


EGG  COOKERY 


Fig.  37. — Angel  cake.  Showing  effect  on  the  volume  and  texture  of  varying  the 
folding  of  the  sugar  with  the  egg  white.  Cake  flour  used.  Experiment  (69,A).  As 
shown  in  the  illustration  the  cakes  are  about  five-sixths  actual  size. 


Fig.  37. 

1.  The  sugar  folded 

2.  The  sugar  folded 

3.  The  sugar  folded 

4.  The  sugar  folded 

5.  The  sugar  folded 

6.  The  sugar  folded 


20  strokes. 
40  strokes. 
60  strokes. 
80  strokes. 
120  strokes. 
180  strokes. 


366 


EGG  COOKERY 


Fig.  38. — Angel  cake.  Showing  effect  of  substituting  bread  flour  for  cake  flour  in 
Fig.  37.  Experiment   (69,E). 


MIXING  ANGEL  CAKE 


367 


Fig.  38. 

1.  The  sugar  folded 

2.  The  sugar  folded 

3.  The  sugar  folded 

4.  The  sugar  folded 

5.  The  sugar  folded 

6.  The  sugar  folded 


20  strokes. 
40  strokes. 
60  strokes. 
80  strokes. 
120  strokes. 
180  strokes. 


368 


EGG  COOKERY 


Fig.  39. — Angel  cake.  Showing  effect  on  volume  and  texture  of  varying  the  extent 
of  folding  the  flour  with  the  sugar  and  egg  white.  Experiment  (69, B).  As  shown 
in  the  illustration  the  cakes  are  about  five-sixths  actual  size. 

1.  The  flour  folded  40  strokes. 

2.  The  flour  folded  60  strokes. 

3.  The  flour  folded  80  strokes. 


MIXING  ANGEL  CAKE 


369 


Fig.  40. — Angel  cake.  Showing  effect  on  the  volume  and  texture  of  beating  the 
egg  white  to  different  stages  of  stiffness.  Experiment  (69,C).  As  shown  in  the 
illustration  the  cakes  are  about  five-sixths  actual  size. 

1.  Egg  white  slightly  under-beaten. 

2.  Egg  white  beaten  sufficiently. 

3.  Egg  white  slightly  over-beaten. 


370  EGG  COOKERY 

egg  white  mixture,  and  the  grain  is  coarser.  Spots  of  flour  may  occasionally 
be  found.  These  are  more  likely  to  occur  when  the  sugar  has  not  been 
sufficiently  mixed,  or  when  all  the  flour  is  sifted  over  the  cake  at  one  time, 
or  if  too  thick  a  layer  is  used,  which  increases  the  difficulty  of  incorporating 
the  flour,  as  it  tends  to  pile  and  roll  up  in  balls.  Longer  mixing  of  the  flour 
with  sugar  and  egg  white  tends  to  produce  a  fine  grain  and  small  cells. 
See  Fig.  39,  cakes  2  and  3.  The  longer  mixing  of  flour  also  has  a  tendency 
to  toughen  the  cake,  which  may  be  due  to  development  of  the  gluten  of 
the  flour  and  to  the  thicker  cell  walls  caused  by  combining  several  cells 
through  loss  of  air  by  mixing.  An  amount  of  mixing  of  the  flour  just  to 
blend  it  well  with  the  egg  white  and  sugar  usually  produces  the  best 
results. 

Texture.  The  texture  and  grain,  also  the  volume  and  tenderness,  of 
angel  cake  are  influenced  by  several  factors:  (1)  The  mechanical  treat- 
ment, which  includes  the  kind  of  beater  used,  the  degree  of  whipping  of 
the  whites,  the  method  of  and  extent  of  mixing  the  ingredients;  and  (2) 
the  ingredients  used,  their  amount  and  kind. 

The  factor  determining  the  size  of  the  cells  to  the  greatest  degree  is  the 
type  of  beater  used  and  the  extent  to  which  the  egg  white  is  beaten,  which 
has  been  considered.  Longer  whipping  produces  more  and  smaller  air  bubbles 
so  that  the  cells  are  smaller,  the  grain  finer.  Rotary  and  electric  beaters, 
in  general,  give  finer  grain  than  whisks. 

Beating  the  egg  whites  to  obtain  the  possible  maximum  cake  volume 
usually  produces  the  most  tender  cake,  for  with  a  maximum  volume  the  cell 
walls  are  stretched  to  the  greatest  extent,  hence  are  thinnest. 

The  method  of  folding  or  mixing  also  afFects  the  grain  of  the  cake. 
After  egg  whites  are  whipped,  the  folding  and  mixing  should  be  done 
gently  and  to  retain  as  many  of  the  air  bubbles  as  possible. 

Longer  mixing  of  the  sugar  with  the  egg  whites  tends  to  give  a  finer 
grain  (see  Fig.  37),  but  not  to  the  extent  that  the  folding  of  the  flour 
does.  Thus  the  grain  or  texture  of  the  cake  may  vary  to  a  certain  extent, 
but  a  cake  with  thin  cell  walls  and  medium-sized  cells  that  is  so  tender 
that  it  "melts  in  your  mouth"  is  preferable  to  one  that  has  a  fine  grain  but 
is  less  tender. 

Ingredients  used  in  angel  cake.  Flour.  The  amount  of  flour  per 
gram  of  egg  white  may  vary  from  0.2  to  0.4  gram.  The  smaller  amount 
tends  to  give  a  more  moist  and  tender  cake,  the  larger  a  more  dry  and  less 
tender  one.  Cake  flour  produces  a  more  tender  cake  than  bread  flour.  It 
contains  gluten  that  is  not  so  tenacious,  and  therefore  yields  a  cake  that  is 
more  tender  and  of  greater  volume.  The  cakes  made  of  bread  flour  shrink 
and  pull  away  from  the  pan  as  they  finish  baking  and  while  cooling.  See 
Fig.  38,  which  is  a  reproduction  of  the  manipulation  and  proportions  for 
the  cakes  in  Fig.  37.  It  is  possible  to  obtain  a  fair  cake  from  bread  flour, 
but  it  is  not  as  tender  as  with  cake  flour.  Better  results  are  obtained  with 
bread  flour  if  the  sugar  is  increased  by  about  2  to  4  tablespoons  or  the 


INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  ANGEL  CAKE 


371 


Fig.  41. — Angel  cake.  Showing  effect  of  increasing  the  sugar  from  1%  to  VA 
cups.  Typical  sugary  crust.  Experiment  (69, F).  As  shown  in  the  illustration  the 
cakes  are  about  five-sixths  actual  size. 

1.  Egg  white  beaten  to  flow  slowly  in  a  partially  inverted  bowl. 

2.  Egg  white  beaten  stiff  enough  to  stay  in  an  inverted  bowl. 

3.  Egg  white  beaten  until  very  dry  and  flaky. 


372  EGG  COOKERY 

flour  reduced  by  about  2  to  4  tablespoons.  There  is  also  a  greater  tendency 
for  drops  of  sirup  to  collect  on  the  surface  of  the  crust  when  bread  flour 
is  used. 

Liquid.  There  does  not  seem  to  be  any  advantage  in  adding  about  30  cc. 
of  water  to  the  egg  white. 

Cream  of  tartar.  Angel  cake  made  without  cream  of  tartar  is  cream 
colored.  The  cream  of  tartar  produces  a  very  white  cake  on  account  of 
the  efifect  of  the  acid  salt  on  the  flour.  The  flavone  pigments  of  flour  are 
cream  colored  when  slightly  alkaline  but  white  when  the  reaction  is  acid 
or  neutral.  Also  the  addition  of  cream  of  tartar  produces  a  more  tender 
cake.  Evidently  the  tartrate  ion  brings  about  peptization  of  the  egg  or  flour 
proteins,  or  both.  Increasing  the  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar  beyond  the 
amount  used  in  the  recipe  produces  a  more  tender  cake  and  one  that  is 
more  moist  and  tart  in  flavor.  Barmore  recommends  that  the  amount  of 
cream  of  tartar  should  be  1  to  2  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  egg  white. 
The  amount  given  in  the  standard  recipe  is  about  1.5  per  cent. 

Sugar.  A  fine  crystalline  sugar,  such  as  fruit  or  berry  sugar,  which  dis- 
solves rapidly  is  excellent  to  use  in  angel  cake.  The  maximum  amount  of 
sugar  per  gram  of  egg  white  is  about  1  gram.  At  higher  altitudes  this  must 
be  decreased.  At  sea  level,  or  up  to  1000  feet  above  sea  level,  the  sugar 
can  be  increased  to  1.25  grams  of  sugar  per  gram  of  egg  white  provided 
the  maximum  amount  of  flour  is  used.  But  it  must  be  handled  carefully. 
See  Fig.  41.  Cakes  with  large  proportions  of  sugar  have  a  typical  sugary 
crust. 

Temperature  o£  baking  angel  cake.  Reports  of  recent  investiga- 
tions of  baking  temperatures  for  angel  cake  indicate  that  higher  tempera- 
tures than  those  commonly  used  are  preferable.  Barmore  reports  that  cakes 
baked  at  178°C.  (352°F.)  had  a  larger  volume,  were  more  tender  (prob- 
ably because  of  larger  volume),  and  appeared  more  moist,  though  a  moisture 
analysis  showed  no  cakes  lost  moisture  farther  from  the  edge  than  1  cm. 
Burke  and  Niles  have  reported  a  larger  volume,  more  tender  cakes, 
and  less  moisture  loss  for  cakes  baked  at  350°F.  than  for  those  baked  at 
325 °F.  Peet  and  Lowe  have  reported  a  larger  volume,  more  tender  cakes, 
and  more  moist  cakes  when  the  cakes  were  baked  in  preheated  ovens  of 
electric,  gas,  and  kerosene  ranges  than  from  a  cold  start  in  these  same 
ranges. 

Whether  still  higher  temperatures  will  be  more  desirable  has  not  been 
reported.  At  present  it  appears  that  oven  temperatures  of  175°  to  180°C. 
are  preferable  to  150°  or  160°C. 

Sponge  Cake 

Sponge  cake,  like  angel  cake  and  foamy  omelets,  depends  chiefly  upon 
the  extent  of  whipping  the  egg  whites,  the  mixing,  and  good  proportions  to 
produce  a  tender  cake. 


REFERENCES  373 

Probably  the  most  common  fault  in  making  sponge  cake  is  insufficient 
beating  of  the  egg  yolks  and  sugar.  These  two  ingredients,  plus  the  liquid, 
if  water  or  lemon  juice  is  used,  can  be  beaten  until  they  are  extremely 
light  and  foamy.  This  is  most  successfully  done  with  rapid  beating,  prefer- 
ably by  an  electrically  operated  beater  or  a  rotary  beater  rather  than  a 
whisk.  Excellent  sponge  cakes  may  be  made  from  only  the  yolks,  provided 
some  water  is  added  and  the  yolks  and  sugar  are  beaten  rapidly  until  very 
light.  In  the  type  of  sponge  cake  recipe  given  in  Experiment  70,  when  the 
flour  is  mixed  too  long  with  the  sugar  and  egg  yolks  the  cake  is  more  com- 
pact and  tough.  But  in  some  types  of  sponge  cake  in  which  considerable 
water  is  added,  that  is,  the  ones  called  water  sponge,  it  is  often  necessary 
to  beat  the  flour  and  egg  yolks  a  long  time  to  obtain  a  cake  with  thin  cell 
walls  and  a  uniform  texture.  In  other  words,  this  can  be  interpreted  to 
mean  that,  for  each  recipe  in  which  the  proportion  of  ingredients  varies 
from  those  in  another  recipe,  the  amount  and  the  kind  of  manipulation  to 
produce  a  cake  of  the  best  texture  vary. 

Different  methods  of  combining  the  ingredients  may  be  used  in  mixing 
sponge  cake.  Several  are  suggested  in  Experiment  70.  Excellent  sponge 
cakes  may  be  made  by  any  method  of  mixing.  The  method  of  adding  the 
water  and  lemon  juice  to  the  sugar,  given  in  Experiment  70,3,  produces 
rather  uniform  results  when  used  by  many  different  students. 

Piatt  and  Kratz  have  reported  means  of  measuring  and  recording  some 
characteristics  of  test  sponge  cakes,  which  can  also  be  used  with  angel 
cake.  These  include  measuring  tensile  strength,  volume,  and  specific  gravity. 

Whether  the  temperature  for  baking  sponge  cake  like  that  for  angel 
cake  should  be  increased  has  not  been  reported.  It  has  been  shown  in  the 
author's  laboratory  that  sponge  cake  made  from  egg  yolks  only  is  more 
desirable  when  baked  at  350°F.  than  at  325°F.  It  is  likely  that  most 
sponge  cakes  should  be  baked  at  the  same  temperatures  as  angel  cake. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Almquist,  H.  J.,  and  Lorenz,  F.  W.     The  Solids  Content  of  Egg  White.     Poultry 

Sci.  12:  83-89    (1933). 
Almquist,   H.  J.,   Givens,   J.   W.,   and    Close,   A.     Transmission   of  Light  by  Egg 

Albumen.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  26:  847   (1934). 
Bailey,  M.   Irene.     Foaming  of  Egg  White.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.   27:  973    (193S). 
Balls,  A.  K.,  and  Swenson,  T.  L.    The  Antitrypsin  of  Egg  White.    J.  Biol.  Chem. 

106:  409    (1934). 
Bancroft,    W.    D.,    and   Rutzler,   J.    E.,    Jr.      The    Denaturation    of    Albumin.     J. 

Phys.  Chem.   35:   144-161    (1931). 
Barmore,  M.  A.     The  Influence  of  Chemical  and  Physical  Factors  on  Egg-White 

Foams.     Technical  Bull.  9.     Colo.  Expt.  Sta.,  Fort  Collins,  Colo.   (1934). 
Barmore,    M.    A.      Baking   Angel    Cake    at    Any    Altitude.      Technical    Bull.    13. 

Colo.  Expt.  Sta.,  Fort  Collins,  Colo.   (1935). 
Barmore,  M.   A.     The   Influence   of   Various   Factors,    including  Ahitude,   in   the 

Production    of    Angel    Food    Cake.      Technical    Bull.    15.      Colo.    Expt.    Sta., 

Fort  Collins,  Colo.   (1936).     Also  Cereal  Chem.  13:  71    (1936). 


374  EGG  COOKERY 

Bryant,  R.  L.,  and  Sharp,  P.  F.  Effect  of  Washing  on  the  Keeping  Quality  of 
Hens'  Eggs.     J.  Agri.  Research  48:   67-89    (1934). 

Burke,  E.  A.,  and  Niles,  K.  B.  A  Study  of  Seasonal  Variation  in  Egg  White 
Performance.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  42:  542    (1936). 

Chick,  H.,  and  Martin,  C.  J.  On  the  "Heat  Coagulation"  of  Proteins.  J.  Physi- 
ology 40:  404  (1910).  HI.  The  Influence  of  Alkali  upon  the  Reaction 
Velocity.  J.  Physiology  45:  61  (1912-13).  IV.  The  Conditions  Controlling 
the  Agglutination  of  Proteins  Already  Acted  upon  by  Hot  Water.  J.  Physi- 
ology 45:  261    (1912-13). 

Clayton,  W.  The  Theory  of  Emulsions  and  Their  Technical  Treatment.  Third 
Ed.     P.  Blakiston's  Son  and  Co.;  J.  A.  Churchill    (1935). 

Dizmang,  V.  R.,  and  Sunderlin,  G.  The  Effect  of  Milk  on  the  Whipping  Quali- 
ties of  Egg  White.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  39:  18,  Nov.  (1933). 

Flosdorf,  E.  W.,  and  Chambers,  L.  A.  The  Chemical  Action  of  Audible  Sound. 
J.  Am.   Chem.  Soc.   55:  3051-2    (1933). 

Freundlich,  H.  Colloid  and  Capillary  Chemistry,  p.  474.  Translation  by  H.  S. 
Hatfield.     Methuen  &  Co.  and  E.  P.  Button  &  Co.   (1926). 

Gortner,  R.  A.,  Hoffman,  W.  F.,  and  Sinclair,  W.  B.  Physio-Chemical  Studies 
on  Proteins.  III.  Proteins  and  the  Lyotropic  Series,  p.  179.  Colloid  Sym- 
posium Monograph,  Volume  V.  1927.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1928). 

Grundmeier,  Edith.  Turkey  Eggs  for  Cooking  and  Baking.  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poul- 
try Mag.  40:  44,  Nov.   (1934). 

Haugh,  R.  R.  A  New  Method  for  Determining  the  Quality  of  an  Egg.  U.  S. 
Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.   39:  27,  March    (1933). 

Hedstrom,  Laura.  Angel  Cake.  I.  The  Effect  of  Consistency  of  the  Egg  White 
upon  Volume  and  Texture.  Masters  Thesis,  Iowa  State  College,  Ames,  la. 
(Unpublished.)       (1933.) 

Heiman,  V.,  and  Carver,  J.  S.  The  Yolk  Color  Index.  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry 
Mag.  39:  40,  Aug.   (1933). 

Hughes,  J.  S.,  and  Scott,  H.  M.  The  Change  in  Concentration  of  Ovoglobulin  in 
Egg  White  during  Egg  Formation.     Poultry   Sci.   15:  349    (1936). 

Hunt,  L.  W.,  and  St.  John,  J.  L.  Angel  Food  Cake  from  the  Thick  and  Thin 
Portions  of  the  Egg  White.     J.   Home  Econ.  23:   1151    (1931). 

Institute  of  American  Poultry  Industries,  Publications, 
Angel  Food  Cake,  No.  17  HE   (1935). 
Custards  A  Food  Tradition    (1933). 
Poaching  Eggs,  in  the  Modern  Manner    (1933). 
The  Nation's  Egg  Supply    (1935). 
Using  the   Yolks    (1935), 
Meringues,  No.  20  HE    (1936). 

Jellinek,  -.     Item,  Science  80:  10,  Supplement,  Aug.  31    (1934). 

King,  F.  B.,  Morris,  H.  P.,  and  Whiteman,  E.  F.  Some  Methods  and  Apparatus 
Used  in  Measuring  the  Quality  of  Egg  for  Cake  Making.  Cereal  Chem.  12: 
37-49    (1936). 

King,  F.  B.,  Whiteman,  E.  F.,  and  Rose,  W.  G.  Cake  Making  Quality  of  Eggs 
as  Related  to  Some  Factors  in  Egg  Production.  Cereal  Chem.  13:  703-711 
(1936). 

Lepeschkin  W.  W.  The  Heat  Coagulation  of  Proteins.  Biochemical  J.  16:  678 
(1922). 

Lorenz,  F.  W.,  and  Almquist,  H.  J.  Seasonal  Variations  in  Egg  Quality.  U.  S. 
Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  42:  168   (1936). 

Marlow,   H.  H.,   and  King,   H.  H.     Sulfur  in  Eggs.     Poultry   Sci.   15:   377    (1936). 

Mattikow,  M.  A  Critical  Review  of  the  Literature  on  the  Coloring  Matter  of  Egg 
Yolk.     Poultry  Sci.  11:  83   (1932). 


REFERENCES  375 

McCammon,  R.  B.,  Pittman,  M.  S.,  and  Wilheim,  L.  A.     The  Odor  and  Flavor  of 

Eggs.     Poultry  Sci.  13:  95-101    (1934). 
Meyer,  B.  H.    The  Gelatinization  of  Egg  Sols  in  the  Presence  of  Electrolytes.    Un- 
published Thesis   (M.S.).     U.  of  111.   (1936). 
Nemetz,    F.    J.      Egg    Whites.      American    Bakers    Association,    Cake    and    Retail 

Bulletin,  No.  CR-1,  Jan.   (1929). 
Nemetz,    F.    J.      Egg    Yolks.      American    Bakers    Association,    Cake    and    Retail 

Bulletin,  No.  CR-2,  Feb.   (1929). 
Ostwald,    W.      An    Introduction    to   Theoretical    and    Applied    Colloid    Chemistry. 

Translation  by  Fischer,  M.  H.     John  Wiley  &  Sons    (1922). 
Palmer,  L.  S.,  and  Kempster,  H.  L.     The  Influence  of  Specific  Feeds  and  Certain 

Pigments  on  the   Color  of  the   Egg  Yolk   and   Body   Fat  of   Fowls.     J.  Biol. 

Chem.  39:  331   (1919). 
Peet,   L.  J.,   and   Lowe,   B.     Starting   Baked    Products   in   Cold    Versus   Preheated 

Ovens.    Research  Bulletin.     Iowa  State  College,  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.  (1937). 
Perry,  F.   D.     Influences  of  Rations   and  Storage  on  the   Physical   Characteristics 

of  Eggs.     Iowa  State  College,  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.,  Research  Bulletin  192    (1936). 
Piatt,  W.,  and  Kratz.,  P.  D.     Measuring  and  Recording  Some  Characteristics  of 

Test  Sponge  Cakes.     Cereal  Chem.  10:  73   (1933). 
Procter  &  Gamble  Co.,  The.     Better  Cakes,  Crisco  Bakery  Service,  Series  No.   6. 

The  Bakery  Research  Department   (1930). 
Rahn,  O.    Why  Cream  or  Egg  White  Whips.    Food  Ind.  4:  300  (1932). 
Rettger,  L.  F.,  and  Sperry,  J.  A.     The  Antiseptic  and  Bacterial  Properties  of  Egg 

White.     J.  Med.  Research  26:  55   (1912). 
Robertson,  T.  B.    The  Physical  Chemistry  of  the  Proteins.    Longmans,  Green  &  Co. 

(1918). 
Schaible,  P.  J.,  Moore,  J.  M.,   and  Davidson,  J.  A.     A  Note  on  the  Structure  of 

Egg  White.     The  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  41:  38,  Dec.  (1935). 
Sharp,   P.   F.     The   pH   of   the   Whites    as    an    Important    Factor    Influencing   the 

Keeping  Quality  of  Hens'  Eggs.     Science  69:  278    (1929). 
Sharp,  P.  F.     What  a  Week  May  Do  to  an  Egg.     The  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag. 

35:  14  Jun.   (1929). 
Sharp,  P.  F.     Opportunities  for  Chemical  Research  in  the  Poultry  Industry.     The 

U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  36:  32  Apr.  (1930). 
Sharp,   P.   F.,   and   Powell,    C.   K.     Decrease   in   Interior    Quality   of    Hens'    Eggs 

during  Storage  as  Indicated  by  the  Yolk.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  22:  908  (1930). 
Sharp,   P.   F.,    and   Powell,   C.   K.     Increase   in   the   ^H   of   the   White    and    Yolk 

of  Hens'  Eggs.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  23:  196   (1931). 
Sharp,  P.  F.,  and  Wagenen,  A.  Van.     Examination  in  November  of  Commercial 

Lots  of  Middle  West  Oil-Dipped  Eggs.     The   U.   S.  Egg  and   Poultry   Mag. 

41:  24,  March   (1935). 
Sherman,  H.  C.     Chemistry  of  Food  and  Nutrition.     Macmillan  &  Co.  Fifth  Ed. 

(1937). 
Snell,  H.  M.,  Olsen,  A.  G.,  and  Kremers,  R.  E.     Lecithin  Protein.     The  Emulsify- 
ing Ingredient  in  Egg  Yolk.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  27:  1222    (1935). 
Snyder,  C.  G.     Eggs  in  the  Bakeries.     The  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.   36:  14, 

Jul.   (1930). 
Snyder,  C.  G.     From  Pancakes  to  Pigment  with  Dried  Eggs.     The  U.  S.  Egg  and 

Poultry  Mag.  68:  20,  Nov.  (1932). 
Sorensen,  S.  P.  L.     Hydrogen-Ion  Concentration  in  Bread-Making.     Am.  Food  J. 

19:  556   (1924). 
Stanley,   L.     The   Bureau   of   Home   Economics   Studies   Eggs   and    Poultry.     U.    S. 

Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  40:  14,  June   (1934). 
Stewart,   G.   F.,   and   Sharp,   P.   F.     Amount   of   CO2  to   Maintain   pH   of  Eggs   at 

8.0  to  8.L     Personal  Communication  (1935). 


376 


EGG  COOKERY 


St.  John,  J.  L.,  and  Flor,  I.  H.     A  Study  of  Whipping  and  Coagulation  of  Eggs 

of  Varying  Quality.     Poultry  Sci.  10:  71    (1931) 
St.    John,    J.    L.,    and    Green,    E.    L.     The    Colloidal    Structure    of    Egg    White    as 

Indicated  by  Plasticity  Measurements.     J.  Rheology  1:  484    (1930). 
Swenson,  T.  L.,  and  James,  L.  H.     A  Comparison  Between  Eggs  Frozen   at  Zero 

Fahrenheit  and  Eggs  Frozen  at  —109°  Fahrenheit.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag. 

41:  17,  March  (1935). 
Swenson,    T.    L.,    Slocum,    R.    R.,    and    James,    L.    H.     The    Use    of    Cold    Oil    at 

Ordinary  Temperature.     U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  42:  297    (1936). 
Thompson,    R.    B.     Egg    Quality    Studies    at    the    Oklahoma    Experiment    Station. 

The  U.  S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  36:  48,  Apr.    (1930). 
Tinkler,   C.   K.,    and    Soar,   M.    C.     The   Formation   of    Ferrous    Sulphide   in   Eggs 

During  Cooking.     Biochem.  J.  14:  114   (1920). 
Train,   S.     The   Future   of   Dried   Eggs   in   this   Country.     U.    S.   Egg   and   Poultry 

Mag.  39:  38,  March   (1933). 
Wilcke,  H.  L.     An  External  Measure  of  Egg  Viscosity.     Research  Bull.  194.     Agri. 

Expt.  Sta.,  Iowa  State  College,  Ames,  la.   (1936). 
Williams,   A.   W.     The    Use   of   the   Thermometer    in    Cooking   Soft    Custards.     J. 

Home  Econ.  8:  178   (1916). 
Woodruff,   S.,   and  Meyer,  B.   H.     Personal   Communication.      (See   Meyer,  B.   H.) 

(1937.) 

EGGS 

Cooking  Eggs  in  Water 

Experiment  63. 

I.  In  the  shell. 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  coagulation  at  different  temperatures  on  the 
texture  of  the  white  and  yolk. 

1.  Cook  an  egg  in  water.  Do  not  let  the  temperature  of  the  water  go 
above  72°C.  It  is  easier  to  control  the  temperature,  if  a  large  quantity  of 
water  is  used  and  the  heat  is  turned  low  after  the  desired  temperature  is 
reached.  Cook  from  1  to  1^  hours. 

2.  Cook  an  egg  in  water  the  temperature  of  which  does  not  go  above  85°C. 
Cook  30  to  35  minutes. 

3.  Cook  two  eggs  in  boiling  water.  Cook  12  to  15  minutes. 

a.  Cool  one  egg  slowly,  leaving  it  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked. 

b.  Cool  the  other  egg  rapidly,  letting  cold  water  from  faucet  run  over  it 
until  cold. 

Compare  with  the  eggs  from  1  and  2  in  texture  and  firmness  of  the  white 
and  yolk.  Which  gives  a  tender  and  desirable  product  for  eating?  For  slicing? 
Do  any  have  a  green  layer  at  the  junction  of  the  white  and  yolk? 


Texture 

Tenderness 

White 

Yolk 

White 

Yolk 

Comments 

Results  and  conclusions. 


COOKING  EGGS  IN  WATER  377 

B.  To  determine   the  effect  of  cooking   for  varying  lengths   of  time   at   a 
high  temperature  upon  the  texture  and  consistency  of  egg  white  and  yolk. 
Cook  in  boiling  water. 

1.  Cook  2  minutes. 

2.  Cook  3  minutes. 

3.  Cook  5  minutes. 

4.  Cook  7  minutes. 

5.  Cook  10  minutes. 

Compare  the  consistency  of  the  white  and  yolk  cooked  for  varying  lengths 
of  time.  Compare  with  results  obtained  in  A. 

II.  Out  of  the  shell. 

A.  To  determine  the  method  of  obtaining  a  desirable  poached  egg. 

Use  a  pan  deep  enough  so  that  water  will  entirely  cover  the  egg.  Add  a  pint 
of  water.  Use  more  water  if  necessary,  but  all  should  use  the  same  quantity. 
A  film  of  fat  rubbed  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  before  the  water  is  added 
seems  to  help  prevent  the  egg  from  sticking  to  the  pan.  Have  the  water  boiling 
when  the  egg  is  added.  Keep  the  water  bubbling  very  slowly.  (For  edible 
purposes  it  is  better  to  keep  the  water  below  the  boiling  point  after  the  egg  is 
added,  but  the  temperature  of  the  water  in  different  pans  may  vary  widely. 
Hence,  keeping  the  water  boiling  very  slowly  serves  for  comparative  purposes.) 
Cook  3  minutes.  Start  with  fresh  water  for  each  experiment.  Break  the  egg 
into  a  sauce  dish  just  before  adding  to  the  water.  Slide  it  carefully  into  the 
water.  Study  the  structure  of  one  egg  after  it  is  broken  out  of  the  shell.  Note 
the  proportion  of  thick  and  thin  white,  for  this  will  vary  with  different  eggs. 
If  very  different  in  some  individual  eggs,  cook  and  repeat  one  part  of  the 
experiment,  to  see  if  you  get  the  same  results  the  second  time.  Note  the 
chalazae.  Do  any  spots  appear  on  the  yolk? 

A.  Fresh  eggs. 

1.  Cook  in  plain  water. 

2.  Add  94  teaspoon  of  salt  per  pint  of  water. 

3.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar  per  pint  of  water. 

4.  Decide  which  of  the  three  experiments  above  gives  the  best-appearing 
product,  then  repeat  it;  but  swirl  the  water  around  the  pan,  dropping  the  egg 
in  the  center. 

B.  Eggs  deteriorated  so  that  they  have  a  larger  proportion  of  thin  white. 

1.  Repeat  Al. 

2.  Repeat  A2. 

3.  Repeat  A3. 

4.  Repeat  A4. 

C.  Repeat  Al,  using  a  ring  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  in  which  the  egg 
is  placed.  Or  use  any  type  of  cup  made  for  poaching  eggs. 

Which  coagulates  better,  the  thick  or  thin  portions  of  the  egg  white?  What 
is  the  effect  of  adding  salt?  Vinegar?  Would  the  technic  in  swirling  the  water 
make  any  difference  in  the  result?  Why  not  swirl  too  hard?  If  eggs  are 
cooked  at  a  lower  temperature,  should  the  time  be  increased? 

Do  you  wish  to  try  changing  the  proportion  of  salt?  The  time  and  tempera- 
ture of  cooking? 


378 


EGG  COOKERY 


White 

Yolk 

Extent  of 
coagulation 

Texture 

Extent  of 
coagulation 

Texture 

Comments 

Condi 


Custards 


Experiment  64. 

To    determine    the    factors    that    affect    the    coagulation    and    curdling    of 
custards. 
Recipe : 

Milk  1  cup  244  grams 

Egg  1  48  grams 

Sugar         2  tablespoons  25  grams 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  rate  of  coagulation  upon  the  texture  and 
consistency  of  custards. 

1.  Prepare  2  times  the  recipe,  then  divide  into  equal  parts;  use  part  one 
for  Al,  and  part  two  for  A2.  It  is  better  for  two  or  more  students  to 
work  together  for  this  experiment.  Combine  all  the  ingredients  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Put  one  part  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler.  The  boiler  should 
be  rather  deep  to  have  the  custard  sufficient  to  cover  the  thermometer  bulb 
when  portions  of  the  custard  are  removed.  A  double  boiler  holding  a  quart 
and  about  4  inches  in  depth  is  satisfactory.  Add  a  pint  of  cold  water  to  the 
lower  part;  then  put  the  upper  portion  of  the  double  boiler  into  the  lower. 
Make  a  record  of  the  temperature  of  the  custard  mixture  and  the  time.  Put 
over  the  fire  and  heat.  The  heating  may  be  rapid  until  the  custard  mixture 
reaches  a  temperature  of  70°C.  Then  the  heat  should  be  regulated  so  that  at 
least  1  to  1^  or  more  minutes  will  be  required  to  elevate  the  temperature 
1°C.,  i.e.,  about  3  minutes  should  be  required  for  the  temperature  of  the 
custard  to  go  from  80°  to  82°.  One  student  may  hold  the  thermometer  and 
read  the  temperatures;  a  second  can  record  the  time  and  temperature.  Record 
the  time  every  5°  during  the  first  period  of  heating,  i.e.,  30°,  35°,  etc.  But 
record  the  time  for  1°  rise  after  78°  is  reached,  i.e.,  at  78°,  79°,  80°,  81°, 
etc.  A  third  student  may  stir  the  custard  and  a  fourth  can  remove  portions 
of  the  custard.  It  is  easier  to  let  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  touch  the  bot- 
tom in  the  center  of  the  double  boiler.  Use  a  wooden  spoon  for  stirring. 
Have  dishes  ready  to  put  the  custard  in.  Bend  the  bowl  of  an  old  metal  spoon 
until  it  is  at  right  angles  to  the  handle.  Use  it  for  removing  portions  of  the 
custard,  taking  out  2  tablespoons  at  each  temperature.  Remove  portions  of 
the  custard  at  78°,  80°,  82°,  84°,  86°,  88°,  and  when  curdled. 


CUSTARDS 


379 


2.  Repeat  Al,  but  have  the  pint  of  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  double 
boiler  boiling  when  the  upper  part  is  added.  Regulate  the  heat  to  keep  the 
water  boiling  very  rapidly.  Cook  as  quickly  as  possible,  but  not  more  than 
6  minutes  should  be  necessary.  Record  the  temperature  of  the  custard  and 
the  time  just  before  putting  the  custard  over  the  boiling  water.  If  possible, 
record  the  temperature  as  under  Al.  The  stirring  should  be  rather  rapid 
for  the  cooking  is  rapid.  It  will  also  take  rapid  work  to  remove  the  custard 
at  the  desired  temperatures.  Remove  portions  of  the  custard  at  temperatures 
given  under  Al. 

Note  the  temperature  before  and  during  curdling  of  the  slowly  and  rapidly 
cooked  custards. 

Does  the  temperature  lag  or  drop  in  some  instances?  Prepare  a  time- 
temperature  chart,  showing  the  period  of  time  required  for  custard  for 
different  groups  and  time  intervals  as  follows.  It  will  be  found  that  the  con- 
sistency of  a  given  custard  at  a  definite  temperature,  say  80°C.,  is  directly 
proportional  to  the  time  required  to  heat  it  from  76°  to  80°C.  Compare 
thickening  of  custard  for  different  groups,  noting  time  required  for  each 
custard  to  reach  a  definite  temperature.  Also  note  curdling  temperature  and 
highest  temperature  reached. 


Time  to  reach 
76°C. 
Min. 

Time  from 

76°  to  78° 

Min. 

Time  from 

78°  to  80°,  etc. 

Min. 

A.  Group  1, 

etc. 

B.  Group  1, 

etc. 

Compare  the  consistency  of  the  custards  at  each  temperature.  What  is  the 
effect  of  the  rate  of  coagulation  upon  the  amount  coagulated  at  a  definite 
temperature?  Would  you  advise  the  rapid  or  the  slow  cooking?  Why?  Com- 
pare with  baked  custards  heated  to  the  corresponding  temperatures. 

B.  Baked  custards. 

Prepare  2  times  the  recipe.  Combine  all  the  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Divide  into  5  portions,  using  equal  parts  in  each  cup.  Put  all  the  cups  in  a 
large,  flat  pan.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven.  By  supporting  on  an  oven  rack  above 
the  custards  insert  a  right-angled  meat  thermometer,  so  that  the  bulb  of  the 
thermometer  is  at  the  center  of  one  custard.  Place  a  second  thermometer 
so  that  the  temperature  of  the  water  can  be  read.  Start  heating  the  oven 
and  then  pour  boiling  water  around  the  custard  cups  until  it  comes  as  high 
as  the  custard  in  the  cups.  If  the  oven  has  a  regulator  so  that  a  low  tempera- 
ture, 125°  to  150°C.  (250°  to  300°F.)  is  maintained,  the  custards  can  be 
cooked  without  adding  the  water  to  the  pan.  Record  the  time  and  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  custard  every  3  minutes  if  the  oven  has  a  glass  door,  otherwise 


380 


EGG  COOKERY 


every  5  minutes.  Remove  one  custard  of  each  series  at  the  following  tempera- 
tures: 82°,  83°,  84°,  85°,  and  87°C. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  proportion  of  ingredients  in  baked 
custard. 

Follow  directions  under  B.  If  possible,  bake  all  the  custards  under  B  and 
C  in  the  same  pan.  Prepare  2  times  the  recipe. 

1.  Use  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  or  use  the  custards 
from  B  for  a  control. 

2.  Use  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk. 

3.  Use  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

4.  Use  \y2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

Are  all  the  custards  for  the  same  experiment  of  the  same  thickness  or 
consistency?  How  might  you  account  for  this?  Are  the  custards  removed 
at  83 °C.  all  of  the  same  consistency?  Compare  the  time  required  for  cook- 
ing. Does  the  increased  egg  result  in  a  thicker  custard  than  when  1  egg  is 
used?  Compare  the  stiffness  of  custards  made  with  the  whites  and  the  yolks. 
What  is  the  eifect  of  increasing  the  sugar?  Which  proportion  of  sugar  is 
desirable  for  serving?  Are  any  of  the  custards  curdled?  What  is  the  optimum 
temperature  for  serving  each  custard? 


Time  of  cooking 


Consistency  of  custard  at 


To  reach 

80°C. 


From  80° 
to  87°C. 


82°C. 


83°C. 


84°C. 


85°C. 


87°C. 


Conclusions. 

D.  To  determine  the  effect  of  substituting  yolks  or  whites  for  the  whole 
egg. 

Follow  directions  under  B.  Prepare  2  times  the  amount  given  below. 

1.  Use  2  yolks  (36  grams),  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

2.  Use  2  whites  (60  grams),  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

Beat  the  whites  only  slightly  before  adding  the  milk.  If  beaten  stiff  they 
float  on  top  of  the  milk  and  do  not  blend  well  with  it.  Also  fill  the  cups  to  the 
same  height  as  those  containing  the  egg-yolk  custard.  Otherwise  the  larger 
quantity  of  egg-white  custard  will  heat  more  slowly  than  the  egg-yolk  custard. 

When  egg  yolks  are  substituted  for  the  whole  egg  in  the  custard,  compare 
the  stiffness  of  the  custards  with  those  made  from  the  whole  egg  cooked  to  the 
same  temperature.  Compare  the  flavor.  The  color.  Compare  with  custards 
made  of  egg  white. 

E.  To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  coagulation. 
Prepare  ^  the  recipe,  using  only  1  custard  cup. 

1.  Use   1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

2.  Use  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Dissolve  J/? 
teaspoon  of  calcium  lactate  in  the  distilled  water  before  adding  the  tgg  and 
sugar. 


CUSTARDS 


381 


3.  Use  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Bake  until 
the  temperature  at  which  D2  sets  is  reached.  Remove  from  the  oven  and 
add  Yi  teaspoon  of  calcium  lactate  that  has  been  moistened  in  a  tablespoon 
of  distilled  water.  Stir.  What  happens? 

4.  To  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  about  1/16 
teaspoon  or  less  of  aluminum  or  ferric  chloride.  Mix  the  ferric  or  aluminum 
chloride  with  the  distilled  water ;  then  add  the  beaten  egg  and  the  sugar.  What 
happens  when  the  egg  is  stirred  in  the  mixture?  Continue  stirring  for  a  few 
seconds. 

5.  Repeat  El,  but  add  ^  teaspoon  of  aluminum  or  ferric  chloride.  Does  the 
custard  coagulate  during  cooking?  Test  the  custards  with  litmus  paper. 

6.  To  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  34 
teaspoon  of  salt. 

7.  Repeat  E6,  but  omit  the  salt  and  add  Yz  teaspoon  of  a  milk-salt  mixture 
used  in  feeding  rats. 

8.  To  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  ^ 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 

9.  To  1  egg,  1  cup  of  distilled  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  1 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 

F.  To  determine  the  effect  of  beating  on  thickening  power  of  the  egg. 

1.  Use  2Y2  eggs.  Beat  in  a  bowl  either  by  hand  or  with  an  electric  mixer 
until  the  yolks  and  whites  are  well  blended.  Weigh  out  48  grams  and  combine 
with  1  cup  of  milk  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

2.  Beat  the  egg  remaining  from  part  Fl  until  thoroughly  beaten.  The  egg 
can  be  beaten  as  long  a  period  as  desired.  Weigh  48  grams  of  the  egg.  Discard 
the  remaining  egg.  Combine  the  48  grams  with  1  cup  of  milk  and  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  If  the  egg  was  beaten  with  an  electric  mixer,  put  milk  in  the 
mixer  bowl  and  combine  with  the  mixer.  Does  the  egg  tend  to  float  on  top 
of  the  milk?  Bake  according  to  directions  under  B. 

3.  Beat  1  egg  slightly,  so  that  the  yolk  and  white  are  not  well  blended.  Add 
to  1  cup  of  milk  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

What  is  the  effect  of  increasing  the  egg  upon  temperature  of  coagulation? 
Of  varying  the  proportion  of  sugar?  Does  the  distilled-water  custard  set? 
What  is  the  effect  of  adding  calcium  lactate?  Salt?  What  is  the  reaction  of 
the  custard  containing  the  small  proportion  of  aluminum  or  ferric  chloride? 
The  one  with  the  larger  proportion?  Does  either  set?  Unless  the  proportion 
of  ferric  or  aluminum  chloride  is  small  enough,  E4  may  not  set. 


Time  of 
cooking 


Coagulation 
temperature 


Texture 


Fh 


Comments 


Results  and  conclusions. 

G.  Soft  custards. 

The  series  under  C  and  D  may  be  repeated  and  cooked  as  soft  custards, 
or  the  baked  custards  may  be  omitted  and  the  soft  custards  prepared  instead. 
Prepare  once  the  recipe  and  follow  directions  under  A  for  cooking. 


382 


EGG  COOKERY 


Salad  Dressings 

Experiment  65. 

To  determine   the  effect  of  acid   upon  coagulation   of   egg  in   cooked   salad 
dressings. 
Recipe : 

Egg  yolks 4  72.0  grams 

Sugar y2  tablespoon  6.2  grams 

Liquid  total 1  cup  240.0  grams 

Mustard >^  teaspoon 

Salt yi  teaspoon 

A.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Follow  directions  under  Experiment  64A  for 
cooking.  It  is  not  necessary  to  cook  as  slowly  as  under  Experiment  64A, 
but  the  time  for  each  degree  rise  in  temperature  should  be  the  same  in  all  the 
experiments. 

Remove  portions  of  the  salad  dressing  at  the  following  temperatures: 
76°,  78°,  80°,  82°,  85°,  and  92°C.  Note  the  temperature  when  the  salad 
dressing  coats  the  spoon, 

1.  Use  Ys  cup  of  vinegar,  %  cup  of  water. 

2.  Use   %.  cup  of  vinegar,   ^  cup  of  water. 

3.  Use  Yz  cup  of  vinegar,  3^  cup  of  water. 

4.  Use  yi  cup  of  lemon  juice,  Y^  cup  of  water. 

5.  Use  54  cup  of  lemon  juice,   ^  cup  of  water. 

6.  Use  Y^  cup  of  lemon  juice,  ^  cup  of  water. 

7.  Repeat  Al,  but  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  7  grams. 

At  which  temperature  is  the  most  desirable  texture  for  a  salad  dressing 
obtained  with  the  different  proportions  of  acid?  Which  proportions  of  acid  give 
the  thicker  salad  dressing?  Does  curdling  occur  at  the  higher  temperatures? 
From  results  with  custard,  what  would  be  the  result  of  increasing  the  propor- 
tion of  salt?  Which  produces  the  clearer  salad  dressing,  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice? 


76° 


78^ 


80= 


82^ 


85^ 


92" 


Conclusions. 

B.  To   determine   the   effect  of  varying  the   ingredients   and   the   proportion 
of  ingredients  in  salad  dressings. 

1.  Repeat  65,2,  or  65,5,  but  increase  the  salt  to  1  teaspoon. 

2.  Repeat  Bl,  but  increase  the  sugar  to  2  tablespoons. 

3.  Repeat  Bl,  but  substitute  72  grams  of  whole  egg  for  the  ^g^  yolk. 

4.  Reduce  the  egg  yolk  to  36  grams  and  add  2  tablespoons    (14  grams)    of 
flour. 


OMELETS  383 


Hollandaise  Sauce  /  ^^__ 

Experiment  66 

To  determine  the  factors  affecting  the  smoothness  of  Hollandaise  sauce. 
Recipe : 

Butter J/2  cup  112  grams 

Egg  yolks 2  36  grams 

Hot  water H  cup 

Vinegar 1  tablespoon 

Salt }i  teaspoon 

Paprika few  grains 

1.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  top  part  of  a  double  boiler.  When  melted  remove 
from  the  heat  and  add  the  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  stirring  until  blended  with 
the  butter.  Add  other  ingredients  and  return  to  the  double  boiler.  Heat  slowly 
and  stir  continually.  Remove  samples  at  the  following  temperatures,  72°,  74°, 
76°,  78°,  and  80°C.  If  mixture  has  not  separated  at  80°C.,  continue  to 
remove  samples  until  curdled. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  do  not  beat  the  egg  yolks  before  adding  to  the  butter. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  increase  the  egg  yolks  to  4. 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  omit  the  water  and  increase  vinegar  to  2  tablespoons. 

5.  Substitute  lemon  juice  for  any  of  the  above.  Compare  smoothness  and 
consistency  of  the  different  sauces.  Compare  the  flavor. 

Omelets 

Experiment  67. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  the  texture  of  omelets. 
Recipe  : 

Egg 1  Salt }/s  teaspoon 

Liquid 1  tablespoon  15  cc.  Butter }4  tablespoon  7  grams 

Directions  for  mixing  and  baking. 

The  first  omelets  should  not  be  used  for  comparisons  for  experiments.  The 
omelets  should  be  made  over  several  times  if  necessary  to  acquire  the  technic 
and  the  manipulation  necessary  to  make  a  good  omelet. 

Separate  the  white  and  the  yolk  of  the  egg.  Beat  the  yolk  until  it  will  mix 
well  when  folded  in  the  white.  Beat  the  white  until  it  is  frothy  and  add  the 
liquid;  add  the  salt  and  continue  beating  until  it  is  quite  stiff.  It  should  be 
beaten  until  it  will  stay  in  an  inverted  bowl. 

Mix  the  beaten  white  and  yolk  by  folding.  Use  a  spatula  for  folding.  The 
spatula  should  have  a  flexible  blade  near  the  end  but  should  be  rigid  where 
it  joins  the  handle.  Fold  by  holding  the  blade  of  the  spatula  parallel  to  the 
right  side  of  the  bowl.  Move  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  at  the  same  time 
pressing  so  that  the  spatula  scrapes  the  material  from  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl.  Bring  up  with  the  blade  parallel  to  the  left  side  of  the  bowl.  As  the 
spatula  is  brought  across  the  top  of  the  material  turn  it  upside  down.  Turn 


384 


EGG  COOKERY 


the  bowl  occasionally,  and  about  every  fifth  stroke  bring  the  spatula  up 
through  the  middle  of  the  material  for  better  mixing.  Fold  white  and  yolk 
until  well  blended.  They  should  not  be  mixed  until  a  large  portion  of  the 
air  is  lost  from  the  white,  but  they  must  be  mixed  enough  to  prevent  separa- 
tion of  the  white  and  yolk.  Count  the  number  of  strokes  used  in  mixing  the 
yolk  and  white.  The  number  needed  will  vary  with  the  size  and  kind  of 
utensil,  usually  about  20  to  25.  The  same  number  of  strokes  should  be  used 
in  mixing  for  all  the  experimental  work  and  also  the  same  size  and  kind 
of  utensils.  If  desired,  different  makes  and  styles  of  egg  beaters  and  whisks  can 
be  used.  Count  the  motions  required  to  beat  the  egg  whites  to  the  same  degree 
of  stiffness.  The  butter  is  put  In  a  frying  pan  or  an  omelet  pan  of  the  proper 
size  for  a  one-egg  omelet.  Melt  the  butter  In  the  pan.  Add  the  omelet  and 
cook  over  a  medium  flame  for  about  ^  minute  before  placing  In  the  oven. 
Have  the  temperature  of  the  oven  160°  to  165°C.  (320°-330°F.).  Oven  baking 
is  not  necessary  but  It  gives  a  uniform  temperature  for  class  work.  Bake  25 
minutes.  If  necessary,  increase  or  decrease  the  time  of  baking.  See  Fig.  36, 
p.  362. 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  omitting  the   liquid   and   the  effect   of   using 
different  liquids. 

1.  Omit  the  liquid  in  the  recipe. 

2.  Use  water  for  the  liquid  In  the  recipe. 

3.  Use  milk  for  the  liquid  In  the  recipe. 

4.  Use  tomato  juice  for  the  liquid  in  the  recipe. 

5.  Use  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  2  teaspoons  of  water  for  the  liquid  In 
the  recipe. 

Which  omelet  gives  the  greatest  volume?  Which  Is  the  most  tender?  What 
happens  In  3? 


No.  of  strokes 
used  for  mixing 


Voh 


Texti 


Tenderness 


Flavor 


Results   and   conclusions. 

B.  To  determine   the  effect  on   the  volume   and   the   texture   of  omelets   of 
combining  the  liquid  with  the  egg  yolk. 

Repeat  the  series  under  Al,  but  combine  the   liquid  with   the   beaten  yolk. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  cooking  at  different  temperatures. 

1.  Repeat  A2,  and  bake  at  160°C.  (320°F.). 

2.  Repeat  A2,  and  bake  at  140°C.   (285°F.). 

3.  Repeat  A2,  and  bake  at  180°C.   (355°F.). 
Which  cooking  temperature  gives  the  best  results? 
Results. 

D.  To  determine  the  effect  of  beating  the  egg  white  to  different  stages  of 
stiffness  on  the  texture  and  the  volume  of  omelets. 

1.  Repeat  A2,  for  a  control. 

2.  Repeat  A2,  but  beat  the  egg  white  until  very  dry  and  flaky. 


MERINGUES  385 

3.  Repeat  A2,  but  beat  the  white  until  it  will  flow  if  the  bowl  is  inverted  and 
is  not  as  stiff  as  for  Dl.  ^ 

Results, 

Meringues 

Experiment  68. 

To  determine  some  of  the  factors  affecting  the  desirability  and  texture  of 
meringues. 

Recipe:  ^ 

Egg  whites  2  60  grams 

Sugar  4  tablespoons       50  grams 

Water  (may  be  omitted)  2  teaspoons 

Salt  %  teaspoon 

Vanilla  }i  teaspoon 

Directions  for  mixing. 

.Beat  the  egg  white  until  foamy,  50  turns  of  handle  of  rotary  beater.  Add 
the  water,  salt,  vanilla,  and  beat  an  additional  100  turns  with  rotary  beater. 
Add  sugar  and  beat  50  turns  with  rotary  beater.  {Note.  The  sugar  may  be 
added  gradually.  If  added  in  this  manner,  the  amount  of  beating  after  addition 
of  salt  should  be  shortened.  Ask  instructor  for  directions.  Change  or  adapt 
the  extent  of  beating  to  suit  the  type  of  beater  used,  whether  water  is  added, 
and  the  consistency  of  the  egg  white.)  The  above  quantity  of  meringue  should 
give  enough  for  4  pies  about  6  inches  in  diameter.  The  meringues  should  be 
between  ^  and  1^  inches  in  depth.  Bake  pastry.  Fill  shells  with  chocolate, 
lemon,  or  butterscotch  filling  as  desired.  Spread  the  meringue  carefully  over 
the  filling  to  the  edge  of  the  crust,  leaving  it  somewhat  rough  over  the  top. 
The  meringue  may  be  placed  on  a  hot  or  cold  filling.  However,  if  added  to  a 
cold  filling  the  time  for  baking  will  be  longer,  especially  at  the  lower  tempera- 
tures. When  possible  keep  portions  of  the  pie  over  night  to  observe  the  extent 
of  leakage  of  the  meringue. 

A.  Temperature  of  baking. 

1.  Bake  at  230° C.  (446°  or  450° F.  may  be  used)  for  4  minutes. 

2.  Bake  at  215°C.  (420°  or  425°F.  may  be  used)  for  6  minutes. 

3.  Bake  at  200°C.  (392°  or  400°F.  may  be  used)  for  8  minutes. 

4.  Bake  at  185°C.  (365°F.  or  375°F.  may  be  used)  for  12  to  15  minutes. 

5.  Bake  at  170°C.  (338°F.  or  350°F.  may  be  used)  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

6.  Bake  at  155°C.  (311°F.  or  300°F.  may  be  used)  for  25  to  30  minutes. 

B.  Amount  and  kind  of  sugar. 

Bake  at  temperature  found  best  under  A. 

1.  Use  1  tablespoon  (12.5  grams)  sugar  per  egg  white. 

2.  Use  ly2  tablespoons  (18.5  grams)  sugar  per  egg  white. 

3.  Use  2  tablespoons  (25  grams)  sugar  per  egg  white. 

4.  Use  2y2  tablespoons  (31  grams)  sugar  per  egg  white. 

5.  Repeat  B3,  substituting  powdered  sugar  for  the  granulated  sugar. 

6.  Use  1  tablespoon  honey  or  sirup  per  egg  white. 

C.  Extent  of  beating  after  sugar  is  added. 


386  EGG  COOKERY 

Bake  at  temperature  found  best  under  A  and  use  amount  of  sugar  found 
best  under  B. 

1.  Beat  25  turns  of  handle  of  rotary  beater  after  sugar  is  added. 

2.  Beat  50  turns  after  sugar  is  added. 

3.  Beat  75  turns  after  sugar  is  added. 

4.  Beat  100  turns  after  sugar  is  added. 

5.  Fold  in  sugar  with  spatula,  using  50  folds. 

D.  Time  of  adding  sugar  to  egg  white. 

Bake  at  temperature  found  best  under  A  and  use  amount  of  sugar  found 
best  under  B.  Beat  until  foamy,  add  sugar  and  cook  as  indicated. 

1.  Add  sugar  and  water  (if  used)  at  first  and  beat  until  shiny  and  stiff. 
Beat  200  turns  of  beater  handle.  Remove  ^  of  mixture  for  Dl. 

2.  Beat  the  mixture  remaining  from  Dl  250  turns  of  the  beater  handle. 
Remove  ^4  oi  original  mixture  for  part  2. 

3.  Beat  the  meringue  remaining  from  D2  300  turns.  Use  34  of  the  original 
mixture  for  part  3. 

4.  Beat  the  remaining  meringue  300  turns. 

Repeat  the  above  series.  Beat  egg  white  until  foamy.  Add  water  (if  used) 
and  start  adding  sugar  gradually.  Beat  until  stiff. 

E.  Amount  and  kind  of  liquid. 

Bake  at  temperature  found  best  under  A. 

1.  Do  not  add  liquid  to  egg  white. 

2.  Use  1  teaspoon  of  water  for  the  full  recipe. 

3.  Use  2  teaspoons  of  water  for  the  full  recipe. 

4.  Repeat  E2  using  lemon  juice. 

Angel  Cakes 

Experiment  69. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  the  texture  of  angel  cake. 
Standard  recipe: 

Egg  whites 1  cup  244     grams 

Sugar Xyi  cups  250     grams 

Cake  flour 1  cup  100     grams 

Cream  of  tartar 1  teaspoon  3.6  grams 

Salt yi  teaspoon 

Directions  for  mixing  and  baking. 

Bake  1/6  of  the  recipe  for  each  experiment.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until 
frothy,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  salt.  Continue  beating  until  they  are  the 
desired  stiffness.  The  peaks  formed  when  the  white  follows  the  lifted  beater 
stand  up  fairly  stiff  and  the  tip  end  is  slightly  rounded.  Sift  the  sugar  to 
remove  lumps  and  large  crystals  so  that  it  will  dissolve  readily  when  mixed 
with  the  egg  white.  The  sugar  is  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  the  egg  and  then 
folded  in  with  a  spatula.  See  Experiment  67  for  directions  for  folding.  The 
class  should  use  spatulas  of  the  same  size.  An  egg  beater  can  be  used  to  fold 
in  the  sugar,  but  if  used  all  members  of  the  class  should  use  one,  and  the 
number  of  strokes  may  need  to  be  changed  according  to  the  size  of  the  egg 


ANGEL  CAKES  387 

beater.  The  flour  is  sifted  to  remove  all  lumps  so  that  it  folds  in  readily  with 
the  mixed  whites  and  sugar.  If  the  sifter  is  a  coarse  one,  sift  the  flour  several 
times.  The  flour  is  sifted  over  the  eggs,  then  folded  in.  Flavoring  is  omitted 
in  the  above  recipe  so  that  the  flavor  of  ingredients  is  more  distinct.  When 
used  it  may  be  added  with  the  cream  of  tartar,  thus  preventing  excess  fold- 
ing. To  better  compare  the  effect  of  other  factors  it  is  preferable  to  beat 
the  egg  whites  together  and  then  divide  after  they  are  beaten.  Pans  2>4  by  2>^ 
by  5  inches  will  hold  1/6  of  the  above  recipe.  It  is  better  to  bake  the  whole 
recipe  in  a  pan  with  an  opening  in  the  center  to  facilitate  baking,  but  small 
portions  bake  well  in  a  loaf.  Let  the  baked  cakes  hang  inverted  in  the  pans 
until  cool. 

A.  To  determine  the  amount  of  mixing  of  sugar  to  yield  the  best  texture 
and  volume. 

I.  Standard  method. 

Beat  enough  whites  at  one  time  for  the  whole  recipe.  Add  the  cream  of 
tartar  and  salt.  Divide  into  6  parts,  using  38  grams  of  the  beaten  white 
for  each  1/6  of  the  recipe.  Bake  at  175°C.  (347°F.).  There  should  be  several 
girls  in  this  group.  One  girl  should  beat  and  weigh  the  egg  whites.  Each  girl 
should  do  the  same  manipulation  on  each  cake.  Thus  if  one  girl  folds  the 
first  ^4  of  the  sugar,  she  should  do  this  operation  on  each  cake,  but  no  more, 
and  pass  it  on  to  the  next  girl.  Two  girls  can  fold  the  flour,  the  first  adding 
3/5  and  the  other  the  remainder. 

1.  Add  approximately  %  of  the  sugar,  sprinkling  it  over  the  top  of  the  beaten 
egg.  Fold  5  times  with  a  spatula.  Repeat  for  each  ^4  of  the  sugar.  This 
gives  a  total  of  20  strokes  for  folding  in  all  the  sugar. 

Sift  approximately  1/5  of  the  flour  over  the  egg  and  sugar  mixture.  Fold 
with  5  strokes  of  spatula.  Add  another  1/5  of  the  flour  and  fold  a  total  of  10 
strokes  with  the  spatula.  Add  1/5  of  the  flour  and  fold  a  total  of  15  strokes. 
Add  1/5  of  the  flour  and  fold  a  total  of  20  strokes.  Add  the  last  1/5  of  the 
flour  and  fold  a  total  of  40  strokes. 

2.  Repeat  1  but  fold  each  34  of  the  sugar  10  times  with  the  spatula. 

3.  Repeat  1  but  fold  each  %  of  the  sugar  15  times  with  the  spatula. 

4.  Repeat  Al,  but  fold  each  Y^  of  the  sugar  20  times. 

5.  Repeat  Al,  but  fold  each  %.  of  the  sugar  30  times. 

6.  Repeat  Al,  but  fold  each  ^  of  the  sugar  45  times  with  the  spatula. 
What  is  the  effect  on  the  size  of  the  cells  and  cell  walls  when  the  sugar 

is  sufficiently  mixed?  When  it  is  over-mixed?  When  it  is  insufficiently  mixed? 
Can  the  flour  be  blended  well  if  the  sugar  has  not  been  sufficiently  mixed? 
What  is  the  effect  on  the  texture  and  tenderness  of  longer  mixing? 

II.  The  meringue  method. 

Follow  the  same  procedure  as  for  Al,  but  do  not  beat  the  egg  whites  quite 
so  stiff.  The  peaks  should  be  soft  and  the  tip  end  should  round  over  readily. 
It  may  be  necessary  to  decrease  or  increase  each  of  the  following  parts  by 
5  or  more  strokes,  depending  on  the  stiffness  to  which  the  egg  white  is  beaten. 
If  desired  ^4  of  the  sugar  may  be  sifted  with  the  flour.  Follow  directions 
under  AI,1  for  folding  the  flour.  Weigh  out  38  grams  of  white  for  each  part. 

1.  Add  54  of  the  sugar  to  be  beaten  in  the  egg  white.  Beat  the  sugar  into 
the  egg  whites  using  10  turns  of  handle  of  rotary  beater  or  10  strokes  of 
whisk  for  each  34  of  the  sugar. 


388 


EGG  COOKERY 


2.  Repeat  1  but  use  15  turns  of  rotary  beater  handle  or  15  strokes  of  whisk 
for  each  ^  of  the  sugar. 

3.  Repeat  1  but  use  20  turns  of  rotary  beater  handle  or  20  strokes  of  whisk 
for  each  34  oi  the  sugar. 

4.  Repeat  1  but  use  25  turns  of  rotary  beater  handle  or  25  strokes  of  whisk 
for  each  34  oi  the  sugar. 

5.  Repeat  1  but  use  30  turns  of  rotary  beater  handle  or  30  strokes  of  whisk 
for  each  ^4  oi  the  sugar. 

6.  Repeat    1    but   use   35    turns   of   rotary  beater   handle    or   35    strokes    for 
each  ^  of  the  sugar. 


Volume 

Crumb 

Character 
of  crust 

Size  of 
cells 

Size  of 
cell  walls 

Tender- 
ness 

Color 

Moist- 
ness 

Flavor 

Results  and  conclusions. 

B.  To  determine  the  amount  of  mixing  of  flour  to  give  the  best  angel  cake. 
Beat  enough  eggs  at  one  time  to  make  ^  of  the  full  recipe.  Add  cream  of 

tartar  and  salt  for  3^  the  full  recipe.  Divide  the  beaten  egg  white  into  three 
parts  using  38  grams  for  each  part.  Use  either  the  standard  or  meringue 
method  of  adding  the  sugar,  with  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  A. 
Divide  the  work  so  that  each  girl  does  the  same  manipulation  on  each  cake. 

1.  After  adding  the  sugar,  add  the  flour.  Fold  in  with  40  strokes.  Follow 
directions  for   folding  flour  under  AI,1. 

2.  Repeat  Bl,  but  use  10  strokes  to  mix  each  1/5  of  the  flour  and  a  total 
of  60  strokes. 

3.  Repeat  Bl,  but  use  15  strokes  to  mix  each  1/5  of  the  flour  and  a  total 
of  80  strokes. 

What  is  the  effect  on  the  grain,  the  volume,  and  the  tenderness  of  the 
cake  when  the  flour  is  mixed  too  long?  Can  less  than  35  strokes  be  used? 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  beating  the  egg  whites  to  different  stages 
of  stiffness  on  the  texture  of  the  angel  cake. 

Beat  enough  egg  whites  at  one  time  to  prepare  ^4  of  the  full  recipe.  Add 
cream  of  tartar  and  salt  for  3^  the  full  recipe.  The  first  portion  is  to  deter- 
mine the  effect  of  too  little  beating  of  the  white  so  that  the  egg  white  can 
be  weighed  with  as  little  beating  as  desired.  Weigh  out  38  grams  of  the  beaten 
white  and  use  the  remainder  for  2  and  3.  Divide  the  work  so  that  each  girl 
does  the  same  operation  on  each  cake. 

1.  Add  34  oi  the  sugar.  Add  each  %  of  the  sugar  with  the  number  of 
strokes  and  method  found  best  under  A.  Fold  the  flour  with  the  number  of 
strokes  found  best  under  B. 

2.  Continue  beating  the  egg  white  from  CI,  until  it  is  about  the  same  stiff- 
ness as  that  used  under  A  and  B.  Weigh  out  38  grams. 

Add  the  sugar  and  the  flour  as  in  CI. 


ANGEL  CAKES  389 

3.  Beat  the  remaining  egg  white  from  C2,  until  it  is  very  stiff,  dry,  and 
flaky.  Weigh  out  38  grams.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  flour  as  in  CI. 

Would  longer  mixing  of  the  egg  white  in  CI  partially  overcome  the  lack  of 
sufficient  beating  of  the  egg  whites? 

D.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  proportion  of  cream  of  tartar 
used  in  angel  cake,  and  the  method  of  adding  the  cream  of  tartar. 

1.  Prepare  1/6  of  the  recipe  for  a  control.  Add  the  sugar  by  method  and 
number  of  strokes  found  best  under  A  and  the  flour  with  the  number  of 
strokes  found  best  under  B. 

2.  Repeat  Dl,  but  omit  the  cream  of  tartar. 

3.  Repeat  Dl,  but  increase  the  cream  of  tartar  to  2  teaspoons  for  the  full 
recipe. 

4.  Repeat  Dl,  but  omit  adding  the  cream  of  tartar  to  the  egg.  Sift  the  flour 
and  the  cream  of  tartar  together  2  or  3  times,  before  adding  the  flour  to 
the  egg  and  sugar  mixture. 

E.  To  determine  the  effect  of  increasing  the  proportion  of  sugar  used  in 
the  cake.  (Formula  II.) 

1.  Increase  the  sugar  for  the  full  recipe  to  lyz  cups.  Beat  enough  egg 
whites  for  3^  the  full  recipe.  Add  salt  and  cream  of  tartar  for  ^  the  full 
recipe.  Beat  the  egg  whites  by  method  and  amount  found  best  under  A,  but 
leave  them  slightly  under-beaten.  Add  the  flour  with  number  of  strokes  found 
best  under  B. 

2.  Beat  the  remainder  of  the  egg  whites  from  El,  the  amount  used  in 
other  experiments.  Weigh  out  38  grams  and  repeat  El. 

3.  Beat  the  remainder  of  the  egg  white  from  E2,  until  very  dry  and  flaky. 
Weigh  out  42  grams.  Repeat  El. 

When  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  is  increased,  should  the  egg  white  be  beaten 
longer  to  coagulate  a  larger  proportion,  thus  giving  greater  rigidity  to  hold 
the  added  sugar,  or  does  over-beating  lessen  the  rigidity  of  the  egg  white? 
What  would  be  the  effect  of  increasing  the  mixing  of  the  sugar  and  the  egg 
white?  May  the  flour  be  increased  to  107  grams  when  the  sugar  is  increased 
to  1^  cups? 

F.  To  determine  the  effect  of  reducing  the  proportion  of  flour  in  the  stand- 
ard recipe. 

Reduce  the  flour  for  full  recipe  to  90  grams.  Prepare  1/6  the  recipe.  Use 
meringue  or  standard  method  or  both  for  beating  eggs,  beating  an  amount  to 
give  a  desirable  cake.  Add  flour  as  found  best  under  B.  If  you  think  it  advisable 
repeat  the  experiment  reducing  the  flour  to  80  grams. 

G.  To  determine  the  effect  of  different  baking  temperatures. 

Prepare  ^  the  full  recipe  following  directions  under  F  and  using  amount 
of  flour  found  most  desirable.  Divide  the  batter  into  3  equal  portions.  Bake 
one  cake  at  160°C.  (320°F.),  the  second  at  175°C.  (357°F.),  and  the  third 
at  190°C.  (375°F.). 

H.  Use  formula  III,  p.  360.  Use  any  or  all  methods  that  may  yield  a 
palatable  cake.  Compare  volume,  texture  and  tenderness  with  cakes  from  the 
standard  recipe. 

I.  Repeat  H,  using  formula  IV,  p.  360. 

J.  Repeat  H,  using  formula  V,  p.  360. 


390  EGG  COOKERY 

Sponge  Cake 

Experiment  70, 

To  determine  the  factors  which  influence  the  texture  of  sponge  cakes. 
Recipe: 

Sugar 1  cup  200  grams 

Pastry  flour 1  cup  100  grams 

Lemon  juice 1  tablespoon  15  grams 

Water 2  tablespoons  30  grams 

Eggs 6  288  grams,  yolks  108  grams,  whites 

180  grams 

Lemon  rind 1  tablespoon  grated 

Salt Ys  teaspoon 

A.   Method  of  mixing. 

1.  Prepare  1/6  of  the  recipe.  Bake  at  160°C.  (320°F.).  Beat  the  egg  yolk. 
Add  the  sugar,  the  lemon  juice,  the  grated  lemon  rind,  the  w^ater,  and  the 
salt.  Beat  until  light,  foamy,  and  lemon  colored.  Add  the  flour.  Keep  a  record 
of  the  number  of  strokes  used  for  mixing  the  flour.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until 
they  flow  slowly  when  the  bowl  is  partially  inverted.  Combine  by  folding  the 
beaten  whites  into  the  egg  and  flour  mixture.  Keep  a  record  of  the  number  of 
strokes  used  for  folding  the  egg  whites  in  the  flour  mixture. 

2.  Beat  the  whole  egg  until  light  and  foamy.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
the  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind,  water,  and  salt.  Beat  until  light.  Sift  a  portion 
of  the  flour  over  the  top  of  the  egg  mixture  and  fold  in.  Continue  until  all  the 
flour  is  used.  Keep  a  record  of  the  number  of  strokes  used  in  folding  the  flour. 

3.  Add  the  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind,  w^ater,  and  salt  to  the  sugar.  Stir  until 
well  mixed.  Add  the  unbeaten  egg  yolk  to  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light  and 
lemon  colored.  Add  the  flour.  Keep  a  record  of  the  number  of  strokes  used  in 
mixing  the  flour.  Beat  the  egg  white  until  it  flows  slowly  when  the  bow^l  is 
partially  inverted.  Add  to  the  flour  mixture,  keeping  a  record  of  the  number 
of  strokes  used  for  folding  the  egg  whites. 

4.  Prepare  j^  of  the  recipe.  Make  a  sirup  of  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  Yz  cup 
of  water.  Cook  to  118°C.  and  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat 
the  egg  white  while  adding  the  sirup.  Cool.  Beat  the  egg  yolks,  adding  the 
lemon  juice,  lemon  rind,  and  salt  to  the  yolks.  Fold  the  beaten  yolks  into 
the  egg  white.  Keep  a  record  of  the  amount  of  folding  used  for  the  egg  yolks. 
Sift  a  portion  of  the  flour  over  the  egg  mixture.  Fold  in.  Continue  adding 
the  flour  until  it  is  all  folded  into  the  egg  mixture.  Keep  a  record  of  the  number 
of  strokes  used  for  folding  the  flour.  Omit  the  2  tablespoons  of  water  in 
the  recipe. 

B.  Variations  in  amount  of  mixing  the  flour  and  the  egg  white. 

Repeat  the  series  under  A,  but  increase  or  decrease  the  number  of  strokes 
used  in  folding  the  flour  and  the  sugar  so  as  to  obtain  the  best  texture  in 
the  cake. 

C.  Vary  the  baking  temperature. 


CHAPTER  XI 
FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

The  composition  of  wheat  may  vary  with  several  factors,  such  as  varying 
rainfall,  temperature,  and  other  climatic  conditions,  irrigation,  texture  and 
composition  of  the  soil,  and  the  use  of  fertilizers.  Bailey  reviews  all  these 
factors  and  others  in  "The  Chemistry  of  Wheat  Flour." 

The  kind  of  flour  and  to  a  great  degree  its  composition  depend  upon 
(1)  the  milling  process,  (2)  the  classes  of  wheat  from  which  the  flour  is 
milled,  and  (3)  the  purpose  for  which  the  flour  is  intended.  Flour  is  also 
made  from  rye,  buckwheat,  barley,  corn,  rice,  potatoes,  bananas,  lima 
beans,  cottonseed,  and  soybeans,  but  the  term  flour  refers  to  wheat  flour 
when  no  grain  or  product  is  mentioned. 

The  milling  process  and  the  structure  o£  wheat.  The  wheat 
kernel  may  be  divided  into  three  main  parts:  the  bran,  the  germ,  and  the 
endosperm,  the  relative  proportion  of  each  part  of  the  entire  kernel  being 
respectively  about  14.5,  1.5,  and  84  per  cent.  Milling  is  the  process  of 
separation  of  the  endosperm  from  the  bran  and  germ.  When  no  separation  is 
made,  or  all  the  flour  streams  are  reunited,  the  flour  is  known  as  whole- 
wheat flour,  but  otherwise  the  completeness  of  separation  determines  the 
resulting  grade  of  flour.  If  the  separation  is  so  complete  that  only  the 
heart  of  the  endosperm  is  used,  the  resulting  flour  may  be  called  a  ''fancy" 
or  ''short"  patent.  In  general,  only  about  72  to  75  per  cent  of  the  endo- 
sperm is  obtained  in  white  flour,  the  remainder  constituting  bran  and 
shorts.  Between  the  two  extremes  of  flour,  whole-wheat  and  fancy  patent, 
are  many  other  varieties. 

The  steps  in  the  milling  process  may  include  the  following:  cleaning, 
tempering,  breaking,  sifting,  or  separating  the  primary  products,  purifying, 
reducing,  bolting,  flour  blending,  and  bleaching. 

The  structure  of  the  wheat  berry  is  shown  in  Fig.  42.  Layer  No.  1,  some- 
times called  the  bee's  wings  by  millers,  the  hairs,  and  the  dirt  on  the  berry, 
particularly  that  in  the  crease,  are  removed  in  the  cleaning  operations  pre- 
paratory to  milling.  Layers  No.  2  to  No.  6,  shown  in  the  surface  drawing, 
and  the  longitudinal  and  cross  sections  constitute  the  bran  coats. 

The  gross  appearance  of  a  cross  section  of  a  wheat  berry  varies  some- 
what with  the  type  of  wheat  and  the  ripening  conditions.  Hard  wheats 
are  more  flinty  and  vitreous  than  soft  wheats.  The  proportion  of  gluten  is 
usually  higher  in  hard  than  in  soft  wheats,  and  the  gluten  forms  a  con- 
tinuous matrix  in  which  the  starch  granules  are  imbedded.  When  the  grain 
contains  a  large  proportion  of  gluten,  the  starch  granules,  as  it  dries  out  in 

391 


392 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


Cmirtcsy  of  Intcntational  Milling   Company,   Minneapolis 

Fig.  42. — The  structure  of  a  wheat  kernel.  The  bran  layers  are  shown  peeled 
back  from  the  kernel.  The  portion  from  which  the  different  flours  are  obtained 
is  shown  in  the  longitudinal  section. 


THE  MILLING  PROCESS  393 

ripening,  are  more  firmly  cemented  to  or  held  in  the  gluten  matrix.  In 
milling  the  vitreous  wheats  naturally  tend  to  yield  coarser  particles  and  less 
free  starch  granules  than  soft  wheats,  unless  the  hard  wheats  are  deliber- 
ately ground  fine.  If  the  weather  is  hot  and  dry  after  flowering  of  the 
wheat,  a  larger  proportion  of  gluten  and  less  starch  are  laid  down  in  the 
kernel.  It  is  known  that  vitreous  barley  has  smaller  starch  granules  than 
soft  barley,  and  it  is  probable  that  this  also  applies  to  wheat. 

In  contrast  to  hard  wheats,  the  soft  wheats  have  air  spaces  throughout 
the  endosperm.  The  endosperm  is  quite  friable  and  naturally  breaks  into 
smaller  particles  in  milling. 

Tempering  consists  of  adding  a  definite  amount  of  water  at  a  certain 
temperature  to  wheat  berries,  the  proportion  of  water  added  depending  on 
the  moisture  content  of  the  wheat  and  other  factors  such  as  relative 
plumpness  and  hardness  of  the  kernels.  In  tempering  wheat  the  water  is 
usually  not  left  in  contact  with  the  wheat  long  enough  for  moisture  to  be 
absorbed  by  the  endosperm.  Thus  the  pliableness  and  toughness  of  the  bran 
coats  are  increased  so  that  they  are  more  easily  separated  from  the  endo- 
sperm. Sometimes,  to  prevent  the  endosperm  from  breaking  into  very  fine 
particles,  the  water  is  added  in  two  portions,  part  of  the  first  addition  being 
absorbed  by  the  endosperm. 

The  germ  because  of  its  high  fat  content  is  easily  flattened  or  flaked  and 
is  removed  by  bolting  from  the  other  constituents  of  the  wheat  berry  during 
milling.  The  endosperm  constitutes  about  80  per  cent  of  the  wheat  berry. 
The  starch  is  more  concentrated  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  germ  and 
in  the  interior  of  the  endosperm.  The  concentration  becomes  less  and  less 
towards  the  outer  layers  of  the  wheat  berry.  The  starchy  endosperm  being 
drier  and  more  friable  tends  to  shatter  more  readily  when  the  berries  are 
fractured  or  broken  between  rollers. 

In  the  first  breaks,  the  wheat  kernels  are  mostly  broken  into  large  frag- 
ments by  the  corrugated  rollers.  The  coarser  fragments,  which  are  sepa- 
rated from  the  finer  ones  by  sifting,  are  returned  to  the  next  set  of  break 
rolls  of  which  there  are  5  or  6.  Other  things  being  equal,  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  fine  particles  is  obtained  from  soft  wheat  than  from  hard  wheat 
during  the  first  breaks. 

Bolting  or  sifting,  which  occurs  after  each  break,  is  the  separation  of 
the  coarse  particles,  which  are  reground,  fine  granules  of  flour,  which  are 
not  reground,  and  intermediate  particles,  which  are  sent  to  the  purifier. 

Purifying  refers  to  a  part  of  the  milling  process  whereby  particles  pass 
over  a  sloping,  vibrating  sieve.  At  the  entrance  the  meshes  of  the  sieve  are 
fine  but  gradually  increase  in  size  to  the  discharge  end.  As  the  particles 
travel  down  this  sieve  they  are  separated  according  to  size.  During  this 
process  controlled  air  currents  lift  out  the  flakier  and  more  fibrous  particles. 
The  remainder  of  the  particles,  known  as  purified  middlings  because  they 
are  freer  from  branny,  fibrous  material,  yield  a  more  highly  refined  flour 
after  reduction. 


394  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

The  purified  middlings  are  ground  between  smooth  iron  rollers  to  re- 
duce them  to  the  desired  fineness.  Since  the  flour  bolted  from  the  first 
grinding  of  any  stream  of  purified  middlings  is  more  highly  refined,  be- 
cause it  is  freer  of  fiber  than  that  produced  by  subsequent  grinding  of  the 
coarser  residues,  it  is  often  used  in  making  the  so-called  "short"  patent 
flours. 

In  separating  the  endosperm  from  the  rest  of  the  wheat  berry  and  re- 
ducing it  to  flour,  some  small  bran  particles  are  broken  from  the  bran  coats. 
As  these  particles  are  formed  they  are  separated  from  the  flour  stock  and 
may  be  graded  according  to  size  and  included  in  the  various  feeds.  As  it  is 
impossible  to  prevent  some  flour  particles'  being  removed  with  the  bran, 
these  flour  particles  may  also  be  graded  according  to  size  and  may  become 
part  of  the  feeds.  The  other  portions  into  which  the  wheat  berry  may  be 
separated,  in  order  as  the  percentage  of  bran  particles  increases,  are  First 
Clear,  Second  Clear,  Red  Dog,  Flour  Middlings,  Shorts,  and  Bran. 

Classes  of  wheats  used  for  flour.  Wheats  are  classified  in  five  main 
groups  as  follows:  (1)  white,  (2)  hard  red  spring,  (3)  hard  red  w^inter, 
(4)  soft  red  winter,  and  (5)  durum.  Since  the  composition  of  the  w^heat 
varies  with  climatic  and  soil  conditions  to  which  it  has  been  subjected  in 
growing,  it  is  natural  that  many  variations  in  composition  occur  within 
each  class.  The  sections  in  which  the  different  classes  of  wheat  are  grown 
overlap  to  a  greater  or  less  degree.  The  major  portion  of  the  hard  red 
spring  wheat  and  durum  wheat  is  grown  in  the  North  Central  States  of 
the  United  States  and  in  Canada,  whereas  hard  red  winter  wheat  is  grown 
chiefly  in  the  South  Central  and  Middle  Central  States.  This  class  of 
wheat  leads  all  others  grown  in  Iowa,  Nebraska,  Kansas,  Oklahoma,  Texas, 
and  Colorado.  At  present  twice  as  much  acreage  is  planted  in  hard  red 
winter  wheat  as  in  any  other  class  of  wheat.  Soft  red  winter  wheat  is 
grown  in  Missouri  and  the  eastern  half  of  the  United  States.  It  is  also 
grown  in  some  Western  States,  particularly  Oregon,  Washington,  and 
Idaho.  White  wheat  is  grown  to  a  limited  extent  in  the  northeastern  part  of 
the  United  States  and  in  Michigan,  New  York,  and  on  the  Pacific  Coast. 

Flour  terminology.  Flour  terminology  had  become  confusing  but  as 
a  result  of  the  work  of  the  committee  on  terminology  of  the  Millers' 
National  Federation,  in  cooperation  with  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, definitions  for  labeling  have  been  worked  out  and  progress  has 
been  made  in  clarifying  the  terminology.  It  has  been  suggested  that  grade 
be  used  to  refer  to  the  type  of  flour  as  determined  by  the  milling  process, 
whereas  the  word  class  be  used  to  designate  the  kind  of  wheat  from  which 
the  flour  is  milled.  According  to  such  a  plan,  grades  of  flour  would  be 
patent,  clear,  etc. ;  classes  would  be  durum,  hard-  and  soft-wheat   flours. 

Definition  of  flour.  The  definition  of  flour  is  from  the  Definitions  and 
Standards  for  Food  Products  of  the  Service  and  Regulatory  Announce- 
ments of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  issue  of  1933. 

"Whole-wheat  flour,   entire-wheat   flour,   graham   flour,   is  the  product 


TYPES  OF  FLOURS  395 

made  by  grinding  wheat,  and  contains,  in  their  natural  proportions,  all  of 
the  constituents  of  the  cleaned  grain." 

Harrell  and  Benson  state  that  whole-wheat  flour  may  be  of  coarse, 
medium,  or  fine  granulation. 

"Flour,  wheat  flour,  white  flour,  is  the  fine-ground  product  obtained  in 
the  commercial  milling  of  wheat,  and  consists  essentially  of  the  starch  and 
gluten  of  the  endosperm.  It  contains  not  more  than  15  per  cent  moisture, 
not  less  than  1  per  cent  nitrogen,  not  more  than  1  per  cent  ash,  and  not 
more  than  0.5  per  cent  fiber." 

Straight  flour.  Straight  flour  (100%  flour)  is  a  milling  term  indicating 
that  all  the  bolted  wheat  meal  has  been  recovered  from  the  wheat  after 
removal  of  the  feeds.  It  is  not  generally  on  the  market  and  all  commercial 
flours  are  derived  from  straight  flour. 

Patent  flour.  Patent  flour  may  be  made  from  any  class  of  wheat  and  is 
the  more  refined  portion  of  the  wheat  meal  from  which  all  or  a  portion  of 
the  clears  have  been  removed.  (How  "long"  or  "short"  a  patent  is  depends 
on  how  much  of  the  total  flour  is  included.  In  general,  most  patent  flours 
include  about  85  per  cent  of  the  total  flour  obtained  from  the  wheat.  But 
a  very  "short"  patent  used  in  fancy  cake  flour  may  include  only  25  per  cent 
of  the  total  flour.) 

Clear  flour.  Clear  flour  is  the  less  refined  bolted  portion  of  the  wheat 
meal  recovered  in  the  manufacture  of  Patent  flour.  According  to  trade 
practise  or  demand,  clear  flour  may  be  divided  into  First  and/or  Second 
Clears. 

First  Clear  is  the  better  portion  of  the  Clear  when  separated  into  two 
parts. 

Second  Clear  is  the  remaining  portion  of  the  Clears  when  First  Clear 
is  removed. 

The  purpose  for  which  the  flour  is  intended.  Hard-wheat  flours. 
Practically  all  durum  wheat  is  used  for  the  manufacture  of  semolina, 
which  in  turn  is  used  for  macaroni  products. 

In  general  bread  flours  are  made  from  hard  wheats,  although  suitable 
soft-wheat  flour  is  used  for  baking  bread  in  some  sections.  Bread  flour  is 
a  term  indicating  a  "strong"  flour  that  has  the  capacity  to  make  loaves  of 
good  volume  texture  and  grain.  The  term  "strong"  indicates  that  the  gluten 
has  tenacity,  cohesiveness,  and  elasticity.  Bread  flour  usually  contains  more 
gluten  and  less  starch,  and  the  granulation  is  usually  coarser  than  in  either 
pastry  or  cake  flour. 

All-purpose,  General-purpose,  or  Family  flour  are  synonymous  terms 
used  for  a  flour  which  is  suitable  for  most  kinds  of  baking.  It  may  or  may 
not  be  a  blended  flour.  It  may  have  as  a  basis  either  hard-  or  soft-wheat 
flour.  Hence,  there  are  two  types  of  all-purpose  flours,  and  which  is  obtain- 
able in  a  certain  section  depends  on  whether  hard  or  soft  wheat  predomi- 
nates in  that  section. 

Soft-wheat  flours.  Since  soft  wheats  usually  contain  a  smaller  quantity  of 


396  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

gluten  than  hard  wheats,  the  flours  from  these  wheats  are  generally  more 
desirable,  and  particularly  if  the  gluten  is  of  fine  quality,  for  cakes  and 
pastry  products  than  hard-wheat  flours. 

Pastry  flour  is  a  term  indicating  a  flour  usually  milled  from  soft  wheat, 
which  is  of  fine  granulation  and  has  a  low  or  moderate  amount  of  gluten. 
It  differs  in  baking  quality  from  both  bread  and  cake  flours. 

Cake  flour  is  milled  from  soft  wheat.  It  is  a  "short"  patent.  The  granula- 
tion is  very  fine  and  uniform,  the  protein  content  is  low  but  may  be  of 
fine  quality.  Cake  flours  are  usually  better  grades  of  flour  than  pastry 
flours. 

Cracker  flour  is  milled  from  soft  winter  wheat.  Micka  states  that  be- 
cause it  constitutes  nearly  90  per  cent  of  the  cracker  it  is  largely  responsible 
for  the  general  character  of  the  finished  product.  A  desirable  cracker  flour 
differs  from  bread  flour  in  color,  absorption,  and  fermentation  capacities. 
Because  of  the  long  fermentation  period  the  inside  color  of  crackers  is  quite 
uniform  but  the  color  of  the  flour  affects  the  outside  color  and  bloom  of 
the  cracker.  A  cracker  flour  has  a  lower  water-absorbing  capacity  than 
bread  flour  and,  since  little  sugar  is  added,  the  flour  must  itself  furnish 
the  necessary  fermentative  material. 

The  geographical  areas  in  which  the  different  classes  of  wheat  are  grown 
determine  to  a  great  extent  the  type  of  flour  that  predominates  in  local 
retail  markets  in  these  areas.  For  example,  in  Iowa  it  is  very  difl&cult  to 
obtain  soft-wheat  flour,  except  in  the  specially  prepared  cake  flours,  the 
bread  and  all-purpose  hard-wheat  flours  being  found  on  the  local  markets. 
In  Alabama  it  is  just  as  difficult  to  obtain  hard-wheat  flours.  In  some  sec- 
tions or  states  both  soft-  and  hard-wheat  flours  are  readily  obtainable. 

Bleaching  of  flour.  Bleaching  can  occur  through  aging  or  gradual  oxida- 
tion of  the  carotene,  but  a  large  portion  of  flour  is  bleached  at  the  mills  in 
a  short  time.  Nitrogen  peroxide  or  chlorine,  benzoyl  peroxide  or  nitrogen 
trichloride,  or  a  combination  of  two  of  these,  is  used  for  bleaching. 

Rye  Flour 

The  Service  and  Regulatory  Announcements  define  rye  flour  as  "the 
fine-ground  product  made  by  bolting  rye  meal,  and  contains  not  more 
than  13.5  per  cent  moisture,  not  less  than  1.36  per  cent  nitrogen,  and  not 
more  than  1.25  per  cent  ash." 

Bailey  has  reported  formulas  and  methods  for  testing  the  use  of  rye  flour 
in  bread.  There  are  five  classes  of  rye  flour,  based  largely  on  the  color: 
white,  light,  medium,  dark,  and  extra  dark. 

Composition  of  Flour 

Flour  contains  pigments,  enzymes,  cellulose,  moisture,  fat,  mineral  salts, 
carbohydrates,  and  proteins.  All  the  constituents  of  flour  are  important  in 


DIASTASES  397 

that  all  affect  the  baking  qualities  of  the  flour  and  thus  the  product  in  which 
the  flour  is  used. 

Color  of  Flour 

Bailey  states  that  the  color  of  flour  is  due  to  five  factors :  ( 1 )  Granula- 
tion or  size  of  flour  particles,  which  affects  the  appearance  of  the  flour  and 
not  that  of  the  dough.  Large  granules  appear  darker  than  small  ones. 

(2)  Color  changes  due  to  mixing  with  water  in  contact  with  air  at  ele- 
vated temperatures  are  caused  by  enzymes  found  principally  in  the  bran. 

(3)  Dirt  and  foreign  matter,  as  weed  seeds,  if  highly  pigmented,  may 
become  pulverized  and  color  the  flour.  (4)  A  reddish-brown  pigment  is 
present  in  small  quantities  in  flour  made  from  "red"  wheats.  Highly  re- 
fined flours  from  those  wheats  show  less  of  these  small  bran  particles 
containing  the  pigments. 

(5)  Carotinoid  pigments.  Flour  contains  the  pigment  carotene  which 
gives  it  a  creamy  or  yellow  tint,  the  depth  of  color  depending  upon  the 
amount  of  the  pigment  present.  Because  of  the  fineness  of  division  of  the 
flour  particles  its  bulk  includes  a  large  proportion  of  air.  The  carotene  is 
bleached  by  oxidation ;  thus,  in  aging,  natural  bleaching  of  the  flour  occurs. 
Markley  and  Bailey  have  reported  that  flour  contains  the  following  fat- 
soluble  pigments:  carotene,  xanthophyll,  and  an  unknown  pigment. 

(6)  Flavones,  The  flavones  are  water-soluble  pigments.  Markley  and 
Bailey  state  that  flavones  have  long  been  known  to  exist  as  glucosides  and 
from  their  study  it  appears  possible  that  they  will  be  found  as  esters  of  the 
fatty  acids.  The  flavones  are  colorless  in  acid  or  neutral  mediums  but 
develop  a  greenish  yellow  tint  in  alkaline  reactions. 

Enzymes 

Wheat  and  flour  contain  many  enzymes,  some  of  which  are  important 
because  of  their  action  during  fermentation  of  cracker  and  bread  doughs. 
Others  become  active  in  the  sprouted  grain,  hence  affect  bread  making  only 
rarely  when  some  sprouted  grain  is  included  with  sound  wheat  in  milling. 
Of  the  numerous  enzymes,  the  diastases  or  amylases  and  the  proteinases  are 
the  most  important  from  the  standpoint  of  baking. 

Diastases.  Andrews  and  Bailey  state  that  the  chief  function  of  the 
starch  enzymes  of  wheat  and  flour  is  changing  starch  to  sugars.  In  sound 
normal  wheat  and  flour  the  diastatic  activity  is  due  primarily  to  the  action 
of  beta-amylase.  When  wheat  germinates,  a  second  "diastatic  factor,"  termed 
alpha-amylase,  is  produced.  Accompanying  the  activation  of  alpha-amylase 
are  the  phenomena  of  dextrination  and  liquefaction.  Both  amylases  convert 
starch  to  reducing  sugars,  the  alpha-maltase  yielding  alpha-maltose  and 
the  beta-amylase  producing  the  corresponding  beta  sugar.  The  maximum 


398  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

activity  of  beta-amylase  occurs  at  pH  4.5  to  5.1,  whereas  that  of  alpha- 
amylase  is  at  pH  5.6  to  5.8. 

Proteinases.  Until  lately  little  was  known  about  the  proteolytic  enzymes 
of  flour  except  that  they  brought  about  hydrolysis  of  flour  proteins.  Balls 
and  Hale  have  not  only  reported  a  method  for  estimating  the  proteolytic 
enzymes  in  flour  but  also  the  action  of  these  enzymes.  They  state  alteration 
of  flour  that  takes  place  in  bleaching  and  storage  in  air  is  due  to  a  diminu- 
tion of  the  proteolytic  activity,  brought  about  by  the  oxidation  of  the 
activator  of  the  flour  proteinase.  j0rgensen  states  that  wheat  flour  contains 
powerful  proteolytic  enzymes  which  are  usually  latent  but  activators  such 
as  glutathione  or  yeast-water  stimulate  these  proteinases  of  flour.  Such  sub- 
stances as  KBrOs  and  ascorbic  acid,  because  they  depress  the  activity  of 
the  proteinase,  have  been  found  to  be  good  improvers  of  baking  strength  of 
wheat  flour.  J0rgensen  has  applied  for  a  patent  in  the  United  States  for 
such  a  use  of  ascorbic  acid. 

Cellulose 

The  greater  part  of  the  cellulose  of  the  wheat  kernel  is  removed  in 
milling,  so  that  the  amount  in  white  flour  is  small. 

Bran.  Bran  contains  considerable  cellulose  and  cellulose  absorbs  water 
slowly.  Rahn  describes  the  Schlueter  process  by  which  bran  is  steeped  in 
hot  water  and  treated  for  some  time  with  moist  heat.  During  this  treat- 
ment the  cellulose  membranes  are  sufficiently  hydrolyzed  so  that  the  cell 
contents  are  more  readily  digestible.  The  bran  is  then  dried  and  put 
through  a  crusher  and  a  fine  grinding  mill.  In  contrast  to  ordinary  bran, 
the  treated  bran  is  said  to  keep  indefinitely  and  absorbs  water  more  readily 
and  in  larger  quantity. 

The  Moisture  Content  of  Flour 

Flour  has  been  considered  adulterated  w^ith  water,  under  the  federal 
standards  of  the  United  States,  if  the  moisture  content  exceeded  13.5  per 
cent.  Recently  this  standard  has  been  changed  to  15  per  cent.  It  has  been 
found  by  careful  experiments  that,  when  the  moisture  is  determined  by 
the  water-oven  method,  13.5  per  cent  is  equivalent  to  15  per  cent  by  the 
new  vacuum  method. 

Sanderson,  in  determining  the  variations  in  moisture  content  of  flour 
during  storage,  decided  that  the  moisture  loss  of  flour  varies  less  with  11.0 
per  cent  of  moisture.  From  different  reports  11  to  13  per  cent  of  moisture 
seems  to  be  a  normal  content  of  flour  over  a  large  section  of  the  United 
States. 

Bailey  states  that  flour  responds  more  readily  to  changes  in  humidity 
than  the  wheat  kernel,  because  of  its  fineness  of  division  of  particles  and 
the  greater  exposure  in  handling  it  in  sacks. 


FAT  CONTENT  OF  FLOUR  399 

Hygroscopic  property  of  flour.  The  starch  of  flour  takes  up  and  lets 
go  of  moisture  very  quickly.  This  affects  the  proportion  of  moisture  needed 
for  baked  products  such  as  bread  and  cake.  Browne  in  determining  the 
hygroscopic  moisture  of  carbohydrates  has  reported  that  anhydrous  starch 
ranked  first  in  the  amount  of  moisture  absorbed  at  60  per  cent  humidity 
in  1  hour.  Over  longer  periods  the  starch  did  not  absorb  as  much  moisture 
as  some  of  the  sugars.  Kent-Jones  states  that  English  flour  has  a  moisture 
content  ^  to  1  per  cent  higher  than  American  flour  on  account  of  the 
higher  humidity  of  the  English  climate. 

The  Fat  Content  of  Flour 

The  percentage  of  fat  in  vrhite  flour  is  low,  since  most  of  the  fat  is  found 
in  the  germ  which  is  removed  during  milling.  But  though  present  in  a  small 
quantity,  the  lipoid  content  of  flour  is  important.  Some  lipoid  constituents 
improve,  whereas  others  injure  the  baking  quality  of  flour. 

Working  has  reported  that  "The  gluten  of  low  grade  flour  increased  in 
tenacity  when  the  phosphatide  was  removed  by  washing.  The  addition  of 
phosphatides  to  flour  in  small  quantities  injured  the  gluten  as  determined 
by  the  feel  of  the  hand  washed  gluten,  the  viscosity  as  measured  by  the 
viscometer,  and  by  baking  tests."  Working  suggests  that  the  effect  of 
phosphatides  on  gluten  is  similar  to  that  of  oil  on  rope.  Lubrication  of  the 
strands  of  the  rope  lessens  its  strength  and  tenacity. 

In  a  later  paper  Working  reported  that  a  small  amount  of  phosphatide, 
such  as  the  normal  amount  present  in  a  good  patent  flour,  may  improve 
the  baking  quality. 

Sullivan,  Near,  and  Foley  report  that  it  is  well  known  that  increasing 
percentages  of  wheat  germ  in  flour  harm  the  baking  quality  of  the  flour. 
They  investigated  the  effect  of  fat  from  wheat  germ  and  of  each  fat  fraction 
and  its  hydrolytic  products  on  normal  sound  patent  flour  as  judged  by 
gluten  washing  and  baking  tests  as  well  as  by  the  Farinograph  and  Fer- 
mcntograph.  Fat  from  the  fresh  germ  was  not  found  to  be  deleterious  to 
the  baking  quality. 

They  say:  "The  only  germ-fat  constituents  which  were  found  to  be 
injurious  were  the  unsaturated  fatty  acids  which  develop  upon  aging  due 
to  hydrolysis  of  the  triglycerides  and,  what  is  much  more  important,  the 
subsequent  oxidation  products  of  these  unsaturated  acids. 

"Higher  saturated  fatty  acids  (which  may  occur  in  small  amounts  in 
any  wheat  product  as  a  result  of  hydrolysis  of  the  triglycerides)  have  only 
a  very  slight  'shortening'  effect  on  the  flour-water  curves.  Unsaturated  fatty 
acids  (oleic,  linolic,  and  linolenic)  cause  a  decided  change  in  the  shape  of 
the  curves  and  produce  'short'  tough  glutens  when  added  to  patent  flour. 
These  unsaturated  acids,  however,  are  only  slightly  detrimental  to  the 
baking  quality  of  a  flour.  The  bake  is  not  harmed  as  much  as  one  would 
expect  from  the  feeling  of  the  gluten." 


400 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


The  effect  of  unsaturated  fatty  acids  on  flour  is  in  direct  correlation  with 
their' increasing  number  of  double  bonds.  The  oxidation  products  of  these 
unsaturated  fatty  acids  have  a  significant  damaging  effect  on  the  baking 
quality  of  flour. 

In  addition,  these  investigators  have  shown  that  extracting  fat  from  flour 
with  ether  injures  the  baking  quality  of  both  strong  and  weak  flours.  The 
addition  of  flour  fat  brought  the  quality  of  the  ether-extracted  flour  back 
to  normal  but  the  addition  of  germ  fat  did  not.  They  concluded  that  this 
indicated  that  flour  fat  contains  some  constituent  or  groups  of  compounds 
necessary  for  good  baking  quality  of  flour,  which  are  absent  in  the  germ 
lipoids. 

The  Ash  Content  o£  Flour 

Sullivan  found  that  the  total  ash  content  of  wheat  averaged  1.86  per 
cent.  In  general  the  ash  content  of  a  flour  increases  as  more  of  the  wheat 
kernel  is  used.  Whole-wheat  flour  contains  all  the  ash  of  the  wheat,  and 
patent  flour  contains  the  smallest  percentage  of  total  ash.  Patent  flour  may 
contain  as  low  as  0.25  to  0.3  per  cent  of  total  ash.  Sullivan  gives  the 
inorganic  constituents  present  in  relatively  larger  quantities  in  flour  as 
shown  in  Table  45 : 


TABLE  45 

Inorganic  Constituents  Present  in  Relatively  Larger  Quantities  in 
Wheat,  Patent  Flour,  and  Bread 

(Sullivan) 


Inorganic  constituent 

Wheat^ 

% 

Patent  flour 

% 

Bread 

% 

Total  ash 

1.86 

0.571 

0.428 

0.194 

0.173 

0.055 

0.048 

0.009 

0.006 

0.45 

0.168 

0.113 

0.165 

0.029 

0.051 

0.016 

0.003 

0.005 

2.77 

Potassium 

Phosphorus . 

0.200 
0  140 

Sulfur 

Magnesium 

0.192 
0.040 

Chlorine 

Calcium 

Sodium . 

1.005 
0.080 
0.660 

Silicon 

0.005 

Calculated  to  dry  basis. 


Phosphorus  is  found  in  inorganic  combination  and  in  organic  combina- 
tion in  phytin,  nucleic  acid,  and  lipoids. 

Sullivan  states  that  potassium  probably  has  some  direct  bearing  in  the 


ASH  CONTENT  OF  FLOUR  401 

translocation  of  sugars  and  starch  formation  and  that  a  potassium  deficiency 
influences  the  respiration  rate  of  plants  and  may  have  some  role  in  the 
activity  of  diastatic  enzymes. 

Magnesium  is  found  in  excess  of  calcium  in  plants,  whereas  the  reverse 
is  true  of  animal  tissues.  It  is  present  in  chlorophyll  and  Sullivan  states  that 
it  takes  some  part  in  the  transfer  of  phosphoric  acid  through  plant  tissues.  It 
may  exist  in  the  wheat  pericarp  as  the  magnesium  salt  of  inositiol  phos- 
phoric acid.  It  is  found  in  larger  quantity  in  stronger  wheats  than  in 
weaker  wheats,  and  there  is  a  correlation  between  the  percentage  of  mag- 
nesium and  protein  content. 

Calcium  is  essential  for  the  growth  of  plants.  It  is  present  in  both  inor- 
ganic and  organic  combination.  Sullivan  states  plants  deficient  in  calcium  are 
unable  to  assimilate  nitrates  and  accumulate  carbohydrates  in  large  quanti- 
ties. Sullivan  and  Near  have  reported  the  potassium,  calcium,  magnesium, 
and  phosphorus  content  of  glutens  in  three  grades  of  flour.  Their  investiga- 
tion shows  that  the  calcium  content  is  highest  in  glutens  of  highest  strength, 
and  potassium  and  magnesium  increase  as  the  tenacity  of  the  gluten 
decreases. 

Calcium  acid  phosphate  is  often  added  to  soft-wheat  flour  and  some- 
times to  high  grades  of  flour.  This  practise  is  very  common  in  the  South. 
A  great  deal  of  this  flour  is  used  in  quick  breads  like  biscuits.  The  addition 
of  the  calcium  acid  phosphate  is  said  to  improve  the  volume,  quality  of 
crumb,  texture,  and  color  of  biscuits. 

Sullivan  states  that  the  inorganic  constituents — iron,  manganese,  copper, 
zinc,  boron,  cobalt,  iodine,  flourine,  and  nickel — all  play  a  significant  role 
in  plant  physiology.  The  addition  of  certain  of  these  rare  minerals,  in  as 
little  concentration  as  one  part  per  million,  to  nutrient  solutions  in  which 
plants  are  grown  permits  normal  growth  and  production,  although  too 
great  a  concentration  of  some  of  these  elements  has  undesirable  effects. 

Gericke  studied  the  effect  on  bread  scores  of  supplying  to  wheat  grown 
in  liquid  media  the  following  salts  during  the  latter  part  of  the  growth 
period:  NH4NO3,  Ca(N03)2,  KNO3,  Mg(N03)2,  and  NaN03.  He 
decided  the  physical  state  of  the  protein  was  determined  by  the  nature  of 
the  salt  solution  surrounding  the  protein  during  its  synthesis  and  transloca- 
tion in  the  grain.  Quality  in  bread  varies  with  the  quantity  and  quality  of 
the  protein  in  the  flour.  Bread  from  flour  of  wheat  grown  in  Ca(N03)2 
scored  exceptionally  high.  The  order  in  decreasing  desirability  of  scores  for 
bread  was:  Ca(N03)2,  KNO3,  NaN03,  Mg(N03)2,  and  NH4NO3, 
though  there  was  little  difference  between  sodium  and  magnesium.  How- 
ever, the  ammonium  nitrate  was  definitely  the  lowest-scoring  bread. 

Gericke  found  that  the  effect  of  chloride  salts  supplied  to  wheat  grown 
in  liquid  media  on  bread  scores  was  in  the  following  order,  the  highest 
being  given  first:  CaCb,  NaCL,  MgCb,  and  KCl.  The  best  bread  was 
obtained  from  the  wheat  supplied  with  NH4CI,  but  this  was  the  only  salt 


402  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

supplying  nitrogen  and  hence  the  only  wheat  which  gave  a  flour  with  a 
high  protein  content. 

Sugars 

Sugar.  Flour  contains  small  amounts  of  sugars.  The  content  of  maltose 
is  from  Yz  to  1  per  cent.  The  amount  of  sucrose  averages  approximately 
1  per  cent  but  may  reach  2  to  3  per  cent.  Dextrose  may  not  be  present 
in  the  flour  but  is  found  in  bread  dough.  Dextrin  is  present  in  the  flour 
in  very  small  quantities. 

Starch 

Uses.  Starch,  either  alone  or  in  flour,  of  which  it  may  compose  as 
much  as  75  per  cent  and  averages  65  to  70  per  cent,  is  used  in  cookery :  for 
thickening,  as  in  soups  and  sauces;  to  form  molded  gels,  i.e.,  cornstarch 
puddings  and  similar  desserts;  and,  because  hydrated  starch  has  adhesive 
qualities,  as  a  cementing  or  binding  material  for  holding  pieces  of  food 
together  in  the  sauce  base  of  croquettes  and  in  the  framework  of  such 
baked  products  as  muffins,  biscuits,  cakes,  and  breads.  Hence  its  charac- 
teristics of  special  interest  in  food  preparation  are  its  gel-forming  properties. 
Alsberg  (Wheat  Studies)  has  given  an  excellent  review  of  the  role  of 
starch  in  bread  making. 

Sources  of  starch.  Most  of  the  starches  and  starchy  foods  used  in 
food  preparation  are  obtained  from  the  cereals :  rice,  barley,  rye,  corn, 
and  wheat.  Starch  is  also  obtained  from  tubers,  potatoes  and  sweet  potatoes 
being  the  principal  sources.  In  addition  tapioca,  arrowroot,  cassava,  and 
some  other  starches  are  used  to  a  limited  extent. 

Starch  from  different  sources  varies  in  size,  shape,  and  properties.  Some 
starches  are  more  suitable  for  some  purposes  than  others.  Some  of  these 
differences  are  in  thickening  capacity,  adhesiveness,  ease  and  rate  of  hydra- 
tion, and  rate  of  hydrolysis  by  diastase.  Samec  states  there  are  two  possible 
explanations  for  these  differences.  ( 1 )  It  may  be  supposed  that  starch  is  a 
homogeneous  substance  existing  in  many  different  colloidal  conditions  and 
(2)  it  may  be  assumed  that  starch  is  a  heterogeneous  system  built  up  from 
a  polysaccharide  (or  several  kindred  polysaccharides)  together  with  inor- 
ganic or  organic  substances  which  accompany  it.  Under  the  first  condition 
the  properties  would  result  because  of  different  colloidal  conditions  and 
under  the  second  condition  the  components  with  the  starch  would  modify 
its  properties. 

Size  and  shape  of  starch  granules.  Sjostrom  has  published  excel- 
lent photomicrographs  of  the  natural  and  gelatinized  starch  granules. 
Butcher  gives  excellent  descriptions,  and  Scott  gives  both  descriptions  and 
illustrations.  Starch  is  laid  down  as  discrete  particles  called  granules.  Many 


SIZE  AND  SHAPE  OF  STARCH  GRANULES 


403 


granules  are  compound,  i.e.,  composed  of  aggregates  of  2  to  25  or  more 
granules.  Some  starch  granules  have  a  characteristic  black  spot  called  the 
hilum,  which  is  an  air  space  visible  microscopically  as  a  black  spot.  The 
hilum,  even  in  varieties  in  which  it  is  a  definite  characteristic,  is  not  always 
present  in  all  granules.  In  some  starches  distinct  concentric  markings  or 
striations  occur  which  are  visible  because  certain  portions  of  the  granules 
contain  less  water  and  thus  are  denser  than  other  portions.  Naturally  the 
size  and  to  a  certain  extent  the  shape  will  vary  with  the  growing  condi- 
tions, so  that  sizes  reported  in  the  literature  vary  considerably. 


Fig.  43. — A  photomicrograph  of  flour  with  enough  water  so  that  it  will  stick  to 
the  slide.  Note  that  the  starch  granules  are  both  oval  and  round.  Magnification 
approximately  x  100. 

Wheat  granules  are  of  two  shapes  and  sizes.  They  are  embedded  in  a 
more  or  less  continuous  matrix  of  gluten,  a  relatively  larger  number  of 
the  granules  being  free  or  not  embedded  in  the  gluten  of  soft-wheat  than 
in  hard-wheat  flours.  Larger  granules  average  25  to  35  microns  in  diame- 
ter and  are  oval  and  lenticular  (bun  shape,  being  flatter  on  one  side). 
The  small  granules  are  circular  and  average  about  3  to  5  microns.  The 
hilum  may  show  as  a  circular  spot,  and  striations  if  present  are  faintly 
visible  in  large  granules  only. 

Rice  starch  is  composed  of  aggregates  of  granules,  though  the  polygonal 
(angular)  granules  are  all  small,  3  to  8  microns.  No  striations  are  visible 
and  the  hilum  is  stellate  and  visible  only  at  high  magnification. 

Cornstarch  granules  are,  according  to  the  variety,  polygonal  or  round. 
The  size  averages  10  to  25  microns  and  few  aggregates  are  found.  The 


404  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

hilum  is  stellate  and  in  the  center,  and  sometimes  shows  as  a  crack.  Stria- 
tions  are  very  indistinct. 

Potato  starch  granules  vary  in  size,  the  large  ones  being  egg  or  oyster- 
shaped,  the  small  ones  usually  circular.  The  diameter  is  usually  60  to  100 
microns  but  may  vary  from  15  to  100  microns.  The  hilum  is  an  annular 
or  circular  spot  at  the  narrow  end  of  the  granule.  The  striations  are  usually 
very  distinct  in  large  granules,  somewhat  ring-shaped  with  wider  spacing 
at  the  broad  end. 

Constitution  o£  starch.  A  perusal  of  the  literature  of  starch  chem- 
istry shows  no  unanimity  of  opinion  in  regard  to  the  naming  of  the  starch 
components,  their  number,  nor  some  of  their  properties.  However,  it  should 
be  remembered  that  starch,  as  it  is  found  in  the  plant  tissues,  is  only  one  of 
many  other  components.  It  is  separated  from  these  other  components  by 
physical  means  and  often,  when  the  chemist  starts  to  work  with  it,  is  a 
modified  starch,  the  modification  occurring  through  physical  or  chemical 
treatment. 

Starch  may  occur  as  free  starch  or  combined  with  phosphoric  acid,  with 
phosphorus  and  protein,  or  with  free  fatty  acids.  Samec  states  silicic  acid 
is  always  present  in  starch.  Many  of  the  properties  and  characteristics  of 
starch  vary  with  its  constitution. 

The  starch  molecule.  There  seems  to  be  agreement  that  cellulose  is  com- 
posed of  beta-glucopyranose  units,  whereas  starch  is  composed  of  alpha- 
glucopyranose  units  linked  into  a  continuous  chain.  The  terminal  units  of 
such  a  chain  differ,  because  of  their  position,  from  one  another  and  from 
the  other  units  in  the  chain.  One  terminal  unit  should  have  reducing 
powers,  just  as  glucose  has  reducing  power;  but  the  greater  the  number  of 
glucose  units  combined  as  in  starch,  the  less  the  relative  reducing  power 
should  be.  There  is  no  agreement  as  to  the  number  of  glucose  units  con- 
stituting starch.  Haworth  states  that  he  believes  the  chemical  unit  of 
starch  to  be  composed  of  about  30  glucose  units.  However,  he  adds  that 
these  chemical  units  must  aggregate  to  form  physical  units  of  much  larger 
size.  Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow  have  reported  that  the  aver- 
age chain  length  of  starch  varies  from  460  to  1470  glucose  units.  Still 
longer  chains  than  these  have  been  reported. 

In  general  the  longer  the  starch  chain  the  less  its  solubility.  Very  short 
chains  broken  from  a  long  starch  chain,  i.e.,  glucose  and  maltose,  or  short 
chains  of  these  units,  are  completely  soluble.  Dextrins,  which  according  to 
Haworth  may  be  composed  of  12,  16,  17,  or  18  glucose  units,  are  more 
soluble  than  starch  and  give  reddish  colors  with  iodine.  The  paste-  or  gel- 
forming  characteristics  are  also  affected  by  the  chain  length,  shorter  chain 
products  having  less  and  less  ability  to  form  pastes. 

Alpha-  and  beta-amylose.  Generally  starch  is  said  to  be  composed  of  two 
substances,  though  sometimes  more  are  listed,  a  soluble  portion  and  a  more 
insoluble  one.  Samec  says  there  is  a  continuous  transition  between  the 
soluble  and  less  soluble  portions.  The  nomenclature  used   for  these  two 


CONSTITUT^  OF  STARCH  405 

substances  is  varied  and  confusing  both  in  the  earlier  and  in  the  present-day 
literature.  Thus  at  present  the  terms  most  often  used  for  the  more  insoluble 
fraction  are  alpha-amylose,  amylbpectin,  and  amylo-cellulose,  whereas  the 
soluble  portion  is  designated  as  beta-amylose  or  just  amylose.  The  propor- 
tion of  alpha-  and  beta-amyJose  varies  in  starches  from  different  sources, 
and  even  in  different  samples  from  the  same  species.  In  addition,  different 
methods  of  separating  the  two  fractions  and  different  pre-treatment  of  the 
starches  would  undoubtedly  lead  to  varying  relative  proportions'  being 
reported  by  different  investigators.  In  starch  pastes  or  solutions  the  beta- 
amylose  often  changes  back  to  the  insoluble  form,  a  process  called  retro- 
gradation.  Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow  state  that  natural  or 
"unmodified  starches  contain  chains  of  varying  lengths  and  it  appears 
plausible  to  suggest  that  the  shorter,  more  easily  soluble  chains  constitute 
the  amylose  (beta-amylose)  fraction,  whereas  the  longer  chains  make  up 
the  amylopectin  (alpha-amylose).  The  amylose  retrogrades  because  the 
original  separation  has  been  made  on  material  not  in  equilibrium  or  at  such 
a  temperature  that  on  cooling  or  concentrating  its  solutions  the  solubility 
of  some  of  the  chains  is  exceeded  and  precipitation  must  follow.  Amylo- 
pectin does  not  retrograde  because  it  is  already  precipitated,  though  heavily 
hydrated."  Thus  differences  in  starch  gels  might  be  expected  at  boiling 
and  room  temperatures  because  the  solubility  of  the  soluble  starch  increases 
with  higher  temperatures. 

There  is  evidence  that  in  natural  or  unmodified  starches  not  more  than 
20  per  cent  of  the  starch  and  often  less  is  soluble,  though  this  varies  with 
the  source  of  the  starch. 

Many  investigators  have  reported  that  alpha-amylose  is  the  starch  com- 
ponent to  which  paste-forming  properties  of  starch  gels  are  due,  but  others 
have  reported  that  beta-amylose  imparts  the  mucilaginous  qualities. 

Phosphoric  acid.  Samec  states  that  in  some  species  of  plants  both  alpha- 
and  beta-amylose  are  combined  with  phosphoric  acid;  in  starches  from 
other  species  these  two  components  are  linked  with  nitrogen  and  phos- 
phorus. Other  investigators  have  reported  that  the  phosphorus  is  combined 
with  only  the  alpha-amylose  fraction.  Alsberg  states  that  in  wheat  starch 
the  phosphorus  is  found  only  with  the  alpha-amylose  fraction. 

Alsberg  states  that  Fernback  found  that  small  granules  of  potato  starch 
contained  a  larger  proportion  of  phosphoric  acid  than  the  larger  granules, 
but  this  proportion  has  not  been  determined  for  wheat  and  some  other 
starches. 

Samec  states:  "Esterification  with  phosphoric  acid,  thus  introducing  a 
group  with  ability  to  ionize,  greatly  increases  the  hydration  capacity  and 
does  not  essentially  decrease  the  tendency  to  association. 

''If  a  starch  paste  be  heated  under  pressure  to  120°C.,  the  high  viscosity 
of  the  paste,  the  proportion  of  the  undialysable  phosphoric  acid,  the  quan- 
tity of  substance  which  can  be  transported  by  the  electric  current  in  a  given 
time,  and  the  precipitability  by  alcohol  diminish,  whilst  the  electrical  con- 


406  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

ductivity  of  the  solution  rises  but  the  magnitude  of  the  molecular  aggregates 
does  not  change  in  the  same  degree." 

Therefore  Samec  believed  there  was  some  correlation  between  the  phos- 
phoric acid  content  and  the  high  viscosity  of  starch  pastes.  Hence  he  tried 
phosphating  potato  amylose  with  the  following  result  : 

P2O5  Relative  viscosity  of  Color  with 

content  a  1-per  cent  solution  iodine 

Amylose 0.00  1.008  Pure  blue 

Phosphated  amylose 2.06  43.1  Pure  blue 

From  these  results  it  appears  that  phosphoric  acid  may  have  some  rela- 
tion to  the  viscosity  of  starch  pastes.  Other  factors  affecting  viscosity  will 
be  discussed  later. 

Fatty  acids.  Taylor  and  Morris  make  a  further  distinction  between  the 
two  starch  fractions  from  the  fact  that  the  insoluble  residue  carries  certain 
high  molecular-weight  fatty  acids  combined  with  its  carbohydrate.  This 
insoluble  fraction  is  called  alpha-amylose  and  the  soluble  fatty-acid  free 
portion  is  designated  as  beta-amylose.  In  potato  starch  pastes  or  solutions 
all  the  starchy  material  may  be  dispersed  and,  because  potato  starch  con- 
tains no  fatty  acids,  Taylor  and  associates  question  the  existence  of  alpha- 
amylose  in  potato  starch  as  it  exists  in  cornstarch.  They  state  that  because 
the  beta-amylose  retrogrades  on  standing  to  a  residue  which  resembles 
alpha-amylose  except  in  its  fatty-acid  content,  many  investigators  report 
the  presence  of  alpha-amylose  in  potato  starch. 

The  fatty  acids  may  be  split  from  the  carbohydrate  by  long  acid  hydrol- 
ysis or  with  lipase-free  amylase.  Taylor  and  associates  report  that  un- 
saturated fatty  acids  are  liberated  before  the  saturated  ones. 

Samec  states  that  "careful  researches  concerning  the  colloidal  changes 
which  occur  because  of  esterification  of  the  starch  substance  with  fatty 
acids  are  not  as  yet  available,  but  we  assume  that  the  hydration  capacity 
will  thereby  be  decreased  since  longer  chains  of  C-Ho  are  introduced  into 
the  molecule.  The  hydration  capacity  is  also  decreased  by  compounds  con- 
taining phosphorus  and  nitrogen." 

Cereal  starches  contain  a  relatively  higher  percentage  of  fatty  acids. 
Potato  starch  contains  no  fatty  acids  but  has  a  relatively  high  phosphorus 
content.  Wheat  also  has  a  relatively  high  phosphorus  content.  Taylor  states 
that  roughly,  those  starches  having  a  relatively  high  fatty-acid  content 
may  have  a  relatively  low  phosphoric-acid  content  and  vice  versa. 

Starch  paste.  Starch  granules  added  to  cold  water  swell  slightly. 
According  to  Alsberg  the  axes  may  increase  as  much  as  15  per  cent.  Such 
swelling  is  not  like  that  in  hot  water  inasmuch  as  there  is  no  change  in 
structure  observable  under  the  polarizing  microscope.  If  the  starch  is  dried 
rifts  may  appear  in  the  granule,  and  the  dried  starch  granules  are  deprived 
of  their  power  to  reassume  their  former  volume  when  wetted.  When  a 
small  quantity  of  starch  is  mixed  with  cold  water,   a  thin,   milky,   non- 


GELATINIZATION  407 

viscid  suspension  is  formed.  If  left  standing,  the  starch  granules  settle  to 
the  bottom  of  the  container  and  the  supernatant  liquid  appears  clear.  If  the 
starch  suspension  is  heated  a  change  takes  place.  It  becomes  thick,  forming 
a  paste  which  is  opaque  or  transparent.  The  viscosity  of  the  warm  paste 
is  far  greater  than  that  of  the  water  suspension,  but  on  cooling  it  loses  some 
of  its  fluidity,  becoming  less  plastic  and  more  viscid,  firm,  or  stiff.  Alsberg 
has  suggested  that  the  reason  for  the  loss  of  plasticity  of  the  cool  paste 
is  that  it  regains  some  of  its  former  rigidity  at  lower  temperatures  and 
that  the  surface  of  the  granules  may  be  more  sticky  at  the  lower  tempera- 
ture, thus  preventing  one  granule  from  moving  or  flowing  so  easily  past 
another.  It  has  also  been  suggested  that  some  of  the  starch  is  less  soluble 
at  the  lower  temperature. 

When  cornstarch  is  heated  with  water  the  resulting  paste  is  clear  or 
transparent.  When  flour  is  used  the  paste  is  opaque.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that  a  clearer  color  is  obtained  when  cornstarch  is  used  with  colored  fruit 
juices  than  when  flour  is  used.  Samec  ascribes  the  opaque  color  with  wheat 
starch  pastes  to  the  combination  of  the  wheat  starch  with  phosphorus  and 
protein.  In  another  reference  he  says,  "Pastes  from  wheat  starches  are 
white,  cloudy,  and  a  little  slimy.  The  starches  of  cereals  do  not  contain 
as  large  quantities  of  phosphorus,  but  contain  fatty  acids.  Pastes  from  starch 
of  such  starch  are  'pasty'  and  not  'pectinous.'  "  Elsewhere  it  has  been 
stated  that  combination  of  starch  with  phosphorus  increases,  whereas  fatty 
acids  decrease,  the  hydration  capacity,  which  may  have  some  effect  on  the 
translucency  of  the  paste. 

Granule  injury.  If  starch  granules  are  injured  or  ruptured  in  milling  or 
in  their  separation  from  other  material,  some  soluble  starch  is  found  dis- 
persed in  cold  solutions;  and  with  increasing  proportions  of  soluble  starch 
the  unheated  solution  becomes  more  viscid,  the  heated  solution  correspond- 
ingly less  stiff  or  viscous.  Long  grinding  appears  to  break  some  of  the  starch 
chains  into  shorter  units. 

Gelatinization.  The  change  upon  heating  a  cold  water  starch  sus- 
pension, so  that  a  transparent  or  opaque,  plastic,  viscid  product  that  forms 
a  gel  results,  is  known  as  gelatinization.  Gelatinization  depends  upon  the 
starch's  being  heated  to  a  definite  temperature,  but  the  temperature  at 
which  gelatinization  starts  depends  upon  ( 1 )  the  length  of  time  the  granule 
is  wet  before  it  is  heated,  (2)  the  kind  of  starch,  (3)  the  size  of  the 
granule,  and  (4)  possibly  the  salts  in  the  water  or  combined  with  the 
phosphoric  acid  of  the  starch. 

During  gelatinization  some  starches  tend  to  disperse,  that  is  the  physical 
units  become  smaller  or  the  granule  may  disintegrate.  With  other  starches 
most  of  the  granule  may  remain  intact  but  may  assume  a  typical  hydrated 
shape.  Thus  the  photomicrographs  of  Woodruff  and  of  Sjostrom  indicate 
that  wheat  starch  when  hydrated  tends  to  become  kidney-shaped. 

Gelatinization  occurs  and  extends  over  a  wide  range  of  temperature. 
Swelling  may  start  and  the  paste  becomes  more  viscid  at  a  fairly  low  tem- 


408  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

perature,  but  complete  swelling  and  maximum  stiffening  ability  may  not 
occur  until  the  starch  is  heated  to  a  much  higher  temperature. 

Samec  says  that,  if  starch  granules  have  been  wet  or  soaked  for  some 
time  before  heating,  gelatinization  begins  at  a  lower  temperature.  This 
gives  at  least  a  partial  explanation  for  the  shortened  cooking  period  of 
soaked  cereals. 

The  kind  of  starch.  Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow  state  that 
potato  starch  gelatinizes  more  readily  than  sago  or  cornstarch.  They  found 
that  cornstarch  gelatinizes  slowly  in  water  at  temperatures  up  to  100°C. 
and  in  pastes  prepared  by  heating  for  30  minutes  at  this  temperature  the 
granules,  although  swollen,  are  far  from  completely  dispersed  in  the  solu- 
tion. The  gel  formed  on  cooling  such  a  paste  is  quite  distinct  in  type  from 
that  of  potato,  in  which  the  granules  are  dispersed  to  a  much  greater  ex- 
tent. A  sago  gel  may  be  regarded  as  intermediate  in  type  between  those  of 
potato  and  cornstarch. 

Alsberg  and  Rask  report  that  wheat  and  maize  starches  change  little 
until  a  temperature  of  65  °C.  is  reached,  when  they  begin  to  thicken 
slightly,  thus  increasing  the  viscosity. 

Woodruff  and  Nicoli  heated  5-per  cent  starch  suspensions  by  weight  in 
a  water  bath  at  such  a  rate  that  38  minutes  were  required  for  the  paste 
to  reach  90°  and  22  minutes  longer  to  reach  99.5 °C.  They  found  the 
translucency  increased  quite  suddenly  at  a  temperature  specific  for  each 
starch,  this  temperature  not  being  sharp  but  covering  a  range  of  1°  to  2°. 
Heating  a  longer  time  to  a  higher  temperature  did  not  increase  the  trans- 
lucency. This  temperature  was  as  follows:  Corn,  86-87°;  wheat,  87-88°; 
rice,  84-85°;  potato,  60-70°;  arrowroot,  79-80°;  and  cassava,  74-75°C. 
It  was  necessary  to  heat  each  starch  to  90°  or  higher  for  maximum 
gelatinization. 

The  size  of  the  starch  granules.  Alsberg  states  that  Nageli  found  that 
larger  granules  of  potato  starch  begin  to  gelatinize  at  55°C.,  whereas  the 
smallest  granules  do  not  begin  to  gelatinize  until  a  temperature  of  65 °C. 
is  reached.  Suggested  reasons  are  that  the  walls  of  the  larger  granules  may 
be  thinner  or  that  large  granules  in  swelling  necessarily  develop  greater 
internal  pressures  per  unit  of  granule  surface  than  small  ones. 

The  effect  of  large  granules  gelatinizing  at  lower  temperatures  and 
swelling  more  rapidly  than  small  ones  is  indicated  by  Alsberg.  Large 
granules  in  gelatinizing  first  swell  and  absorb  more  water  which  may  affect 
the  plasticity  of  the  baking  dough.  *'If  the  average  granule  size  is  small, 
this  effect  would  come  later  than  if  the  average  size  is  large."  Other  things 
being  equal,  the  longer  the  dough  remains  plastic,  presumably,  the  greater 
will  be  the  volume  of  the  baked  loaf.  The  size  of  the  starch  granules  might 
also  apply  to  textures  and  volume  obtained  in  cake. 

Effect  of  salts.  In  studying  flocculation  of  starch  pastes  Samuel  inves- 
tigated the  effect  of  different  metallic  salts  and  found  their  action  to  be 
varied.  Some  lowered  the  gelatinization  temperature  considerably. 


VISCOSITY  OF  STARCH  PASTES  409 

Viscosity  of  starch  pastes.  Viscosity  of  pastes  made  from  the  same 
concentration  of  starch  vary  (1)  with  different  starches,  (2)  with  its 
phosphoric  acid  content,  (3)  with  the  phosphorus  salt  content,  (4)  with 
the  temperature  to  w^hich  it  is  heated,  (5)  with  the  degree  of  injury  or 
grinding  of  the  granule,  (6)  possibly  the  proportion  of  beta-  and  alpha- 
amylose,  and  (7)  with  the  length  of  the  starch  chain.  Chain  length  may  in 
turn  be  affected  by  application  of  dry  heat,  by  boiling  with  water,  or  by 
acid  and  enzyme  hydrolysis. 

Different  starches.  It  has  long  been  known  in  food  preparation  that 
starches  from  different  sources  need  to  be  used  in  different  concentrations, 
if  the  product  to  be  served  is  stiffened  to  the  same  degree. 

Woodruff  and  Nicoli  determined  the  stiffness  of  starch  gels  from  5  per 
cent  concentrations  of  starch.  The  results,  arranged  in  order  of  decreasing 
stiffness  are :  corn,  wheat,  rice,  potato,  arrowroot,  and  cassava.  Other  dif- 
ferences noted  were:  Of  the  three  cereal  starches,  rice  was  the  most 
translucent  and  tender  when  cut;  corn  was  the  firmest,  the  cold  gel  being 
chalky  white;  and  wheat  was  intermediate  between  these  two.  For  the 
other  starches,  the  potato  paste  was  ropy  and  too  gummy  to  leave  the  mold 
well  so  that  it  gave  a  poorly  formed  gel,  although  quite  transparent; 
arrowroot  gave  a  still  softer  and  more  transparent  gel ;  and  cassava  starch 
gave  only  a  viscous  fluid.  It  was  necessary  to  heat  the  gels  to  90 °C.  for 
maximum  stiffening,  but  heating  of  any  one  starch  to  90°,  95°,  99.5  °C. 
gave  gels  indistinguishable  from  each  other. 

Phosphoric  acid.  Samec's  results  showing  the  increased  viscosity  of  phos- 
phated  starch  have  been  given  in  the  discussion  of  phosphoric-acid  content 
of  starch.  From  these  results  he  concluded  that  the  viscosity  of  starch  pastes 
could  be  reduced  in  two  ways :  ( 1 )  by  removing  the  phosphoric  acid  and 
(2)  by  reducing  the  size  of  the  molecule.  In  general,  paste  formation 
increased  with  increased  phosphoric  acid  content,  but  this  did  not  hold  for 
wheat  starch.  Samec  believes  this  discrepancy  may  be  explained  on  the 
basis  that  phosphoric  acid  in  wheat  starch  may  be  present  as  a  compound 
with  the  proteins. 

In  general  smaller  granules  gave  richer  or  stiffer  pastes  than  larger 
granules,  which  Samec  ascribes  to  the  relatively  higher  phosphorus  content 
of  the  smaller  granules. 

Phosphorus  salt  content.  In  separating  starch  by  electrodialysis  Samec 
states  the  amylophosphoric  acid  isolated  in  this  way  proved  to  be  a  diabasic 
acid.  The  solutions  of  various  amylophosphoric  acid  salts  not  only  gave 
pastes  with  differences  in  viscosity  but  also  affected  other  properties.  Thus 
copper  and  iron  amylophosphate  paste  separated  badly,  the  calcium  amylo- 
phosphate  tasted  like  chalk,  magnesium  and  ammonium  caused  a  slight 
burning  and  pricking  sensation  on  the  tongue,  respectively,  and  sodium 
and  potassium  were  reminiscent  of  wheat  flour. 

Temperature  to  which  the  starch  is  heated.  Although  the  starch  may 
swell  to  a  certain  extent  at  lower  temperatures,  it  may  not  reach  its  maxi- 


410  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

mum  stiffening  power  until  a  higher  temperature  is  reached.  Thus  Alsberg 
and  Rask  found  the  maximum  viscosity  of  wheat  starch  occurred  at  95 °C. 
Woodruff  and  Webber  have  shown  that  a  5  per  cent  wheat  starch  paste 
must  be  heated  to  at  least  90°C.  before  the  resulting  gels  will  form  mold- 
able  gels,  such  as  would  be  served  for  puddings.  Furthermore,  rapid  heating 
to  this  temperature  gave  a  better-formed  gel  than  did  slow  heating.  But 
temperatures  of  95 °C.  or  above  gave  the  firmest  gels  obtained  with  this 
concentration. 

For  cornstarch  paste  Alsberg  and  Rask  found  the  maximum  viscosity  at 
91  °C.,  but  Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow's  results  indicate  that 
maximum  swelling  of  some  cornstarch  pastes  does  not  occur  until  a  tem- 
perature of  100°C.  is  reached. 

Degree  of  grinding.  Samec  states:  ''The  capacity  of  a  starch  to  form  paste 
decreases  with  continued  grinding  of  the  starch  and  the  grinding  also 
peptizes  the  starch  to  such  an  extent  that  it  can  pass  through  ultra-filters." 
Alsberg  found  that  in  flour  ground  until  the  granule  walls  are  broken  a 
larger  percentage  of  the  starch  is  dispersed.  A  higher  percentage  of  such 
flour  is  required  to  produce  a  paste  of  definite  thickness.  His  explanation 
of  this  is  that  starch  from  the  broken  granules  passes  into  solution  and  does 
not  thicken  as  much,  hence  a  greater  quantity  is  needed  to  produce  a  paste, 
for  there  are  fewer  whole  granules  to  swell  and  occupy  the  volume  of  the 
suspension  and  thus  produce  stiffening  or  thickening.  During  gelatinization 
starch  may  absorb  about  30  times  its  w^eight  in  water.  The  smaller  the 
number  of  granules  broken  or  dispersed,  the  smaller  the  percentage  of 
starch  required  to  produce  a  paste  of  definite  stiffness. 

The  proportion  of  alpha-  and  beta-amylose.  Samec  says  that  paste  forma- 
tion depends  on  having  a  proper  balance  between  the  tendency  to  associate 
and  to  hydrate.  With  potato  starch,  and  starches  from  similar  species,  this 
relationship  is  attained  by  the  presence  of  both  amylo-amylose  and  erythro- 
amylose,  and  by  esterfication  of  the  polysaccharid  with  phosphoric  acid. 

Length  of  the  starch  chain.  Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow  state 
that  Staudinger  has  shown  that  for  many  types  of  long-chain  polymers  there 
is  close  correlation  between  the  chain  length  and  the  viscosity  of  the  solu- 
tion. This  relation  was  found  to  hold  with  sago  starches  but  with  other 
starches  the  relation  was  not  found,  so  that  it  was  suggested  that  other 
factors,  such  as  distribution  of  length,  rate  of  gelatinization,  and  degree  of 
hydration  of  the  chain  molecules  are  as  important  as  chain  length  in  deter- 
mining viscosity.  Natural  starches  contain  chains  of  varying  lengths  and  it 
may  be  that  the  average  chain  length  is  greater  for  some  species  of  starches 
than  for  others.  However,  it  is  known  that  dextrins  have  shorter  chain 
lengths  than  starch,  and  they  have  little  or  no  paste-forming  properties. 

When  starch  is  dextrinized  by  heat  or  broken  into  shorter  chain  lengths 
by  hydrolysis,  either  by  diastase,  acid,  or  other  means,  the  stiffening  power 
is  decreased.  Thus  more  of  browned  flour  is  required  for  thickening  gravies 
and  sauces  than  of  the  unbrowned  flour. 


RESULTS  OF  FINE  OR  OVER-GRINDING  ON  FLOUR      411 

Acid.  When  starch  pastes  are  treated  with  acid,  hydrolysis  of  the  gluco- 
side  linkages  takes  place  and  shortening  of  the  molecular  chain  occurs. 
Richardson,  Higginbotham,  and  Farrow  suggest  that  the  attack  occurs  at 
random  along  the  starch  chains,  so  that  in  any  paste  of  acid-modified  starch 
there  is  a  wide  distribution  of  chains  of  varying  length.  As  hydrolysis  pro- 
ceeds an  increasing  number  of  shorter  chains  is  produced,  the  reducing 
power  is  increased,  and  the  stiffening  power  decreased.  Hydrolysis  with 
acid  is  more  rapid  as  the  temperature  increases,  which  gives  an  explanation 
for  adding  lemon  juice  to  the  partially  cooled  gel  of  water,  cornstarch, 
sugar,  and  egg  yolk.  Hydrolysis  is  also  speeded  by  increasing  the  concen- 
tration of  the  acid. 

Boiling  and  enzyme  hydrolysis.  Hydrolysis  is  also  brought  about  by 
diastatic  enzymes  and  by  boiling  with  water,  the  last  more  rapidly  under 
pressure  at  temperatures  above  boiling. 

Commercial  soluble  starch.  The  commercial  soluble  starches  should  not 
be  confused  with  soluble  starch  occurring  naturally  in  food  products. 
Commercial  soluble  starches  have  been  treated,  usually  with  acid,  and 
although  they  are  more  soluble,  their  properties,  such  as  stiffening  power, 
are  also  modified. 

The  effect  of  acid  upon  the  thickening  power  of  starch  has  been  known 
for  a  long  time.  If  cornstarch,  lemon  juice,  and  water  are  boiled  together, 
the  resulting  paste  is  not  as  thick  as  one  made  with  the  same  amount  of 
cornstarch  and  liquid,  but  without  the  acid. 

Sugar  and  starch.  Woodruff  and  Nicoli  have  reported  that  pastes  made 
from  5  grams  of  corn,  wheat,  rice,  potato,  arrowroot,  or  cassava  starch 
and  95  grams  of  water  required  heating  to  90°C.  or  higher  before  the 
cooled  gels  were  strong  enough  to  retain  the  shape  of  a  mold.  When 
10,  30,  50  or  60  grams  of  sucrose  were  added  to  the  above  quantities  the 
three  root  starches  formed  increasingly  softer  gels  with  increasing  amount 
of  sugar,  the  50  and  60  grams  giving  a  sirup.  Although  the  three  cereal 
starches  showed  increasing  transparency  and  tenderness  with  increase  of 
sugar,  a  gel  that  would  not  mold  was  not  obtained  until  more  than  50 
grams  of  sucrose  were  added.  A  sirup  was  obtained  with  60  grams  of  sugar 
and  the  cereal  starches. 

The  Results  of  Fine  or  Over-Grinding  upon  Flour 

Bakers  have  known  for  a  long  time  that  flour  ground  too  finely  does 
not  produce  so  good  a  quality  of  bread  as  flour  that  has  not  been  over- 
ground. Alsberg  and  Griffing  have  reported  the  following  for  over-ground 
flour.  Before  over-grinding,  the  starch  granules  clumped  together  under 
the  microscope;  in  the  over-ground  flour  they  were  scattered.  Over-grind- 
ing injured  the  starch,  and  as  previously  stated  the  greater  the  degree  of 
injury  the  more  the  starch  was  dispersed.  Diastase  acted  on  the  whole 
granule  rather  slowly,  but  with  many  injured  granules  and  the  increase  in 


412 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


cold  water  extract  the  action  of  diastatic  enzymes  in  converting  starch  to 
maltose  was  more  rapid ;  as  a  result,  the  rate  of  fermentation  in  bread  mak- 
ing was  increased.  Alsberg  has  suggested  adding  some  over-ground  flour 
to  flour  reported  low  in  diastase.  Since  the  injured  granules  swell  in  cold 
water  they  absorb  a  larger  proportion  of  water.  Alsberg  states  that  in  the 
very  severely  over-ground  flours  the  swelling  may  resemble  heat  gelatiniza- 
tion.  Thus  in  severe  over-grinding  the  baking  quality  is  reduced  although 
the  hydration  capacity  of  the  flour  is  increased.  Usually  increased  hydra- 
tion capacity  means  increased  baking  quality.  Moderate  over-grinding 
did  not  affect  the  gluten  but  evidence  was  found  that  severe  over-grinding 
injured  the  gluten. 


Effect  o£  Aging   on   Flour 

It  is  commonly  accepted  that  aging,  particularly  during  the  first  4  or  5 
weeks,  improves  the  quality  of  flour  for  making  bread.  Dunlap  has  reported 
that  he  has  always  obtained  better  results  with  aged  than  with  fresh  flour. 
Some  of  his  results  are  given  in  Table  46. 

TABLE  46 
The  Effects  of  Initial  pH  of  Flour  Upon  Baking  Results  (Dunlap) 


Total 
minutes 

Volume 

Color, 

Tex- 

Value, 

^H 

Acidity 

fermen- 

ture, 

cc. 

per  cent 

per  cent 

per  cent 

tation 

Fresh 

6.12 
5.90 

0.139 
0.158 

215 
198 

2160 
2250 

100 
•103 

100 
102 

100.0 

Matured  I 

103.0 

Matured  II 

5.69 

0.178 

186 

2300 

104 

103 

104.5 

Matured  III 

5.48 

0.198 

173 

2400 

105 

104 

106.7 

Matured  IV 

5.29 

0.216 

153 

2520 

106 

105 

100.2 

Sherwood  and  Bailey  report  that  loaf  volume,  color,  and  absorption 
improve  during  the  first  few  months  of  aging,  but  the  loaf  volume  may 
diminish  after  extended  storage,  even  though  the  color  and  hydration 
capacity  continue  to  improve.  They  found  that  proteolytic  activity  grad- 
ually decreased  in  storage,  sprouted  wheat  flours  retaining  their  activity 
in  storage  for  a  few  years.  The  improvement  in  baking  quality  with  aging 
has  been  ascribed  to  the  increasing  acidity,  the  increase  in  free  fatty  acids, 
and  the  diminution  of  proteolytic  activity. 

Acidity.  The  acidity  of  flour  increases  in  storage,  the  pH  of  aged 
being  lower  than  that  of  freshly  milled  flour.  However,  Bailey  believes 
that  the  increased  acidity  is  not  the  only  factor  responsible  for  improve- 


EFFECT  OF  SALTS  ON  PROTEIN  EXTRACTED      413 

ment  in  baking  strength,  for,  if  this  were  the  case,  the  baking  quality  could 
be  improved  by  the  addition  of  acids  to  doughs  from  fresh  flours. 

Free  fatty  acids.  Kozmin  attributes  the  improvement  w^ith  aging  to 
the  development  of  free  fatty  acids.  The  removal  of  free  fatty  acids 
rejuvenated  the  flour,  its  bread-baking  properties  returning  to  their  original 
state.  In  turn,  the  addition  of  free  unsaturated  fatty  acids  produces  the 
same  effect  as  natural  aging.  Unsaturated  fatty  acids  had  more  effect  than 
saturated  ones.  Aging  or  the  development  of  free  fatty  acids  occurred  more 
rapidly  as  the  storage  temperature  increased. 

Sullivan,  Near,  and  Foley  state  that  their  results  agree  vrell  vs^ith  those 
of  Kozmin,  w^ith  the  exception  that  American  flours  do  not  show^  the  im- 
provement w^hich  European  flours  do  w^ith  the  presence  of  free,  unsaturated 
fatty  acids.  It  vras  found,  however,  that  after  oxidation  of  the  unsaturated 
acids  had  occurred  that  the  baking  quality  was  seriously  damaged. 

Proteolytic  enzymes.  Balls  and  Hale  state  that  the  changes  that 
take  place  in  the  quality  and  behavior  of  flours  after  bleaching  or  storage 
in  air  are  due  to  the  diminution  of  proteolytic  activity. 

The  Proteins  of  Flour 

Osborne  in  his  classical  work  on  the  wheat  flour  proteins  reported  only 
a  small  fraction  soluble  in  water.  This  fraction  contained  leucosin  and 
albumin,  plus  proteose  or  non-protein  nitrogen.  A  small  fraction  was  ex- 
tracted by  dilute  salt  solution  and  this  globulin  fraction  constituted  about 
0.6  per  cent  of  the  wheat  kernel.  Gliadin,  a  prolamin,  constituting  about 
40  per  cent  of  the  total  protein,  was  soluble  in  alcohol.  The  remaining 
protein,  called  glutenin,  was  found  to  be  insoluble  except  in  dilute  acids 
or  alkalies. 

But  later  work  has  shown  that  the  terms  "globulin"  and  "albumin"  have 
little  meaning  in  connection  with  flour  proteins  and  that  neither  "gliadin" 
nor  "glutenin"  may  be  an  individual  chemical  entity.  Blish  in  "The  Wheat 
Flour  Proteins"  says,  "It  seems  that  as  we  have  become  increasingly 
familiar  with  the  behavior  and  properties  of  flour  proteins,  we  have  found 
ourselves  progressively  more  and  more  hesitant  in  the  matter  of  making 
dogmatic  assertions  and  published  statements  relative  to  their  nature,  their 
identities,  and  their  individualities." 

Effect  of  salts  on  protein  extracted.  Gortner,  Hoffman,  and  Sin- 
clair found  that  N/1  solutions  extract  the  following  average  percentages 
of  the  total  wheat  flour  proteins:  KF  13,  KCl  23,  KBr  37,  and  KI  64. 
They  showed  that  the  amount  of  protein  extracted  varied  not  only  with 
the  nature  of  the  salt  used  but  also  with  its  concentration. 

Gortner,  Hoffman,  and  Sinclair  have  found  that  for  increasing  peptizing 
effect  on  wheat  proteins  the  following  anions  arrange  themselves  in  a 
lyotropic  series:  F  <  SO4  <  CI  <  tartrate  <  Br  <  I.  The  cations  have  a 


414  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

less  distinct  effect  on  solubility  of  the  flour  proteins  but  give  the  following 
order  of  peptization:  Na  <  K  <  Li  <  Sr  <  Mg  <  Ca. 

Mangels  and  Bailey  in  studying  the  gelatinizing  action  of  reagents  on 
starch  noted  a  Hoffmeister  series  as  follows:  CI  <  B  <  I  <  CNS  <  salicyl- 
ate <OH. 

Rich  has  shown  that  the  amount  of  protein  extracted  or  peptized  by 
N/2  MgS04,  10  per  cent  NaCl,  and  N/4  NaCl  solutions  varies  directly 
with  increasing  ash  content  of  the  flour.  In  general,  the  maximum  peptiza- 
tion occurred  with  N/4  solutions.  A  further  increase  in  salt  concentration 
causes  dehydration  and  eventually  salting  out  of  the  protein  micelle. 

Is  gluten  a  single  protein?  McCalla  and  Rose  say  that  the  most 
soluble  10  to  15  per  cent  of  the  gluten  protein  is  probably  distinct,  but  the 
remainder  is  a  single  protein  complex  which  can  be  divided  into  a  great 
many  progressively  different  fractions.  They  suggest  the  terms  ''glutenin" 
and  ''gliadin"  should  be  discarded. 

Rich  states  that  it  is  "apparent  that  the  protein  of  wheat  is  a  single 
individual  and  that  knowledge  of  the  nature  of  differences  in  protein 
'quality'  between  'strong'  and  'weak'  flours  can  best  be  solved  by  studying 
the  protein  as  a  whole  instead  of  splitting  it  into  arbitrary  fractions  and 
studying  each  fraction  separately."  He  believes  that  if  the  dispersing  agent 
or  the  method  of  isolation  is  changed,  even  slightly,  there  is  no  established 
limit  as  to  the  number,  quantities,  and  character  of  the  protein  fraction 
that  can  be  isolated. 

Is  gluten  composed  of  distinct  groups  or  individual  proteins? 
The  greatest  difficulty  in  fractional  precipitation  of  the  flour  proteins  can 
be  traced  to  the  agents  used  to  disperse  them,  for  no  solvent  has  been  found 
from  which  all  the  protein  can  be  recovered  without  loss  or  irreversible 
change  in  original  properties.  Blish  says  that  "irreversible  and  destructive 
hydrolytic  changes  occur  almost  at  once,  and  proceed  at  a  relatively  high 
rate  when  gluten  is  dispersed  in  weak  alkali."  On  the  other  hand,  in  dilute 
acetic  acid,  an  appreciable  amount  of  hydrolysis  is  detectable  after  a  few 
hours  standing,  but  at  ice  temperature  hydrolytic  changes  are  slow.  Addi- 
tion of  an  equal  volume  of  alcohol  to  dilute  acetic  acid  protects  against 
hydrolytic  change,  but  may  split  off  other  components.  Urea  is  used  for 
peptizing  proteins,  but  because  it  gelatinizes  starch  must  be  used  on  washed 
gluten. 

Salicylate  is  one  of  the  anions  in  the  lyotropic  or  Hoffmeister  series  caus- 
ing greatest  peptization  of  flour  proteins.  Sodim  salicylate  appears  to  peptize 
the  flour  proteins  with  no  observable  hydrolysis  or  denaturation. 

Blish  states  that  it  is  probable  that  only  a  few  components  or  component 
groups  constitute  the  flour  proteins  and  that  they  may  be  precipitated  as 
mixtures  containing  progressively  varying  proportions  of  these  few  com- 
ponents. "We  can  merely  summarize  our  present  viewpoint,  which  is  as 
follows:  There  is  a  considerable  portion  of  flour  protein  that  does  not  enter 
into  the  formation  of  gluten,  but  it  is  not  yet  possible  to  distinguish  a  sharp 


GLUTEN  415 

and  definite  boundary-line  between  the  gluten  and  non-gluten  portions. 
With  reference  to  gluten,  itself,  we  recognize  a  definite  fraction  consisting 
of  approximately  10-12  per  cent  that  is  extremely  resistant  to  dispersion. 
We  recognize  the  'gliadin'  fraction,  which  accounts  for  50  per  cent  or 
more  of  the  gluten,  and  which  may  or  may  not  be  a  mixture  of  components 
having  very  similar  properties.  The  remaining  portion  we  regard  as  doubt- 
ful, but  until  proven  otherwise  we  prefer  to  look  upon  it  as  a  mixture  of  a 
'glutenin'  and  a  lipoid-protein  complex."  Work  with  flour  proteins  **is 
peculiarly  a  problem  in  which  any  new  discovery  is  likely  to  invalidate 
much  that  has  gone  before  and  to  necessitate  an  entire  re-examination  of  the 
whole  situation." 

Lecithio-protein.  Flour  may  contain  a  lecithio-protein  somewhat  sim- 
ilar to  that  found  in  egg  yolk.  Blish  says  that  alcohol  added  to  acetic  acid 
solutions  in  fractioning  flour  proteins  may  cause  irreversible  splitting  off 
of  an  important  gluten  component,  a  "lecithio-protein"  or  some  similar 
lipoid-protein  complex.  Blish  adds  that  he  suspects  the  ''lecithio-protein" 
is  a  very  important  gluten  constituent  and  that  its  importance  and  amount 
in  flours  have  been  underestimated.  "At  present  we  feel  that  a  thorough 
study  and  understanding  of  the  nature  and  properties  of  the  lipoid-protein 
complex  will  contribute  greatly  to  the  solution  of  several  flour  problems 
that  are  of  the  greatest  fundamental  interest  and  importance." 

Gliadin.  Gliadin,  either  as  a  multiple  protein,  or  as  a  component  of 
the  gluten  complex,  is  soluble  in  60  to  70  per  cent  alcohol.  In  water  it  swells 
to  a  sticky  mass,  being  least  soluble  at  its  isoelectric  point  about  pH  6.5. 
With  increasing  acidity  it  becomes  more  soluble,  reaching  a  maximum  with 
a  pH  range  of  2.0  to  3.0.  With  hydrogen-ion  concentration  greater  than 
pH  2  the  solubility  decreases  gradually.  With  increasing  alkalinity,  the 
solubility  of  gliadin  increases  more  rapidly  than  on  the  acid  side,  up  to  pH. 
13.1,  the  most  alkaline  of  the  solutions  used  by  Tague. 

Glutenin.  It  is  the  glutenin,  classified  as  a  glutelin,  that  gives  the 
desirable  baking  qualities  to  wheat  flour,  qualities  not  possessed  by  any 
other  cereal.  Glutenin  is  insoluble  in  water,  but  is  increasingly  soluble  in 
dilute  acids  and  alkalies.  Sharp  and  Gortner  state  that  the  maximum 
solubility  occurs  on  the  acid  side  at  /»H  3.0  and  on  the  alkaline  side  at  />H 
11.  The  isoelectric  range,  as  determined  by  Sharp  and  Gortner,  is  from 
pH  6.0  to  8.0,  and  by  Bungenberg  de  Jong  as  pH  5.6.  Glutenin  swells 
in  water.  If  prepared  with  sodium  salicylate  it  is  said  to  resemble  gluten 
in  its  coherence  and  tenacity. 

Gluten 

The  characteristics  of  gluten  gain  in  importance  because  it  is  the  protein 
of  the  flour  as  a  whole,  regardless  of  whether  it  is  composed  of  one,  few,  or 
many  components,  that  gives  the  baking  quality  to  flour.  When  water  is 


416  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

added  to  flour,  the  proteins  gradually  absorb  about  200  per  cent  of  their 
weight  in  water. 

When  flour  is  made  into  a  stiff  dough  and  kneaded  for  a  short  time, 
the  starch  can  be  washed  out,  leaving  a  small  part  of  the  original  dough 
which  is  known  as  gluten.  Gluten  is  rubbery,  tenacious,  and  elastic.  It 
is  usually  a  light  gray  or  slightly  yellowish  color.  A  large  part  of  the  gluten 
is  composed  of  the  proteins  gliadin  and  glutenin.  In  addition  to  the  protein, 
the  gluten  as  washed  from  the  dough  contains  some  starch  which  is 
entangled  in  the  gluten,  some  lipoids,  mineral  salts,  and  water.  The  amount 
of  all  these  constituents  of  gluten  varies  with  the  manipulation  in  wash- 
ing, the  kind  of  water  used,  and  the  character  of  the  flour  itself.  The 
physico-chemical  properties  of  gluten  have  been  extensively  studied  and 
applications  made  to  baking  bread. 

Since  gliadin  and  glutenin  have  about  the  same  isoelectric  point,  rang- 
ing around  />H  6.5  to  7.0,  Bailey  states,  *'it  might  be  anticipated  that 
maximum  coherence  and  extensibility  of  gluten  and  dough  should  be 
encountered  in  about  the  same  range." 

Heat  coagulation  of  gluten.  Gluten  seems  to  have  no  definite  coagu- 
lation temperature.  Alsberg  and  Griffing  have  reported  that  heating  the 
gluten  decreases  its  power  to  swell  in  acid  solutions,  the  swelling  power 
decreasing  during  heating  from  50°  to  80°C.  Except  at  the  temperatures 
60°  to  65°C.  no  information  was  obtained  that  indicated  a  definite  coagu- 
lation temperature.  They  state  that  denaturation  takes  place  over  the 
whole  range  from  50°  to  80°C.  The  swelling  power  was  not  impaired 
but  probably  increased  at  temperatures  from  30°  to  50 °C. 

Gluten  quality.  Different  flours  vary  in  their  baking  qualities.  Millers 
and  bakers  speak  of  those  having  poor  baking  qualities  as  "weak"  flours, 
and  those  having  good  baking  qualities  as  "strong"  flours.  The  definition 
of  good  baking  quality  commonly  accepted  by  millers  and  bakers  is  the  one 
suggested  by  an  English  worker,  Humphries:  "Strong  flour  is  one  capable 
of  making  large  well-piled  loaves."  This  definition  excludes  flours  "that 
produce  large  loaves,  but  do  not  rise  satisfactorily."  Thus  strong  flours 
and  good  baking  quality  are  synonymous  to  a  certain  extent.  A  weak  flour 
does  not  have  good  baking  qualities,  but  there  is  no  distinct  line  between 
weak  and  strong  flours.  A  flour  may  also  be  too  strong  for  good  baking 
qualities.  Such  a  flour  is  called  gluten  "bound." 

Gortner  and  Sharp  have  reported  that  weakness  of  flour  may  be  divided 
into  three  classes  as  follows : 

1.  Weakness   due   to  an   adequate   quantity   of   gluten    but   of    inferior 
quality. 

2.  Weakness  due  to  an  inadequate  quantity  of  gluten  of  good  quality. 

3.  Weakness    due    to    factors    influencing   yeast    activity,    diastatic    and 
proteolytic  enzymes,  hydrogen-ion  concentration,  etc. 

Even  though  flour  may  have  an  adequate  quantity  of  gluten  for  good 


GLUTEN  AND  DOUGH  417 

baking  qualities,  if  the  quality  is  inferior  it  does  not  produce  a  good  loaf 
of  bread. 

Gluten  quality  and  growth  of  wheat.  In  the  flour  the  protein  may 
be  thought  of  as  a  partially  dried  hydrogel.  When  proteins  are  dried  to 
contain  little  or  no  water,  less  than  5  per  cent,  they  may  lose  the  power 
of  swelling  in  water.  If  they  contain  10  to  15  per  cent  of  moisture  they 
may  retain  the  power  of  swelling  in  water.  Flour  contains  10  to  13  per 
cent  of  moisture,  so  that  the  swelling  property  is  not  destroyed.  However, 
the  moisture  content  of  flours  varies  somewhat;  but  of  more  importance 
to  the  quality  of  the  protein  is  the  rate  of  dehydration  of  the  protein  when 
it  is  deposited  in  the  wheat  kernel.  It  is  well  recognized  in  colloidal  chem- 
istry that  the  past  history  of  a  colloid  influences  its  future  reactions.  The 
conditions  during  the  growth  of  the  wheat  influence  the  later  reactions 
of  the  protein.  In  the  sap  of  the  wheat  the  protein  is  in  the  form  of  a  sol  ; 
later  as  it  is  deposited  in  the  wheat  it  is  found  in  the  form  of  a  gel.  With 
ripening  and  further  dehydration  of  the  protein,  dried  hydrogel  is  formed. 
The  speed  at  which  this  takes  place,  depending  upon  climatic  and  moisture 
conditions,  affects  the  quality  of  th«  protein.  The  mineral  salts  and  the 
lipoid  content  of  the  flour  also  influence  the  quality  of  the  gluten,  which  has 
been  discussed  under  ash. 

Gluten  quality  and  colloidal  state.  Gortner  and  Doherty  suggest 
that  the  size  of  the  gluten  particle  is  a  factor  in  determining  its  properties. 
They  emphasize  that  strong  flours  give  glutens  with  nearly  "perfect  col- 
loidal" gels  with  highly  "pronounced  physico-chemical  properties,"  whereas 
weak  flours  give  glutens  whose  properties  are  less  colloidal;  or  strong 
flours  contain  gluten  in  a  less  dispersed  state,  and  weak  ones  contain  gluten 
more  highly  dispersed. 

Gluten  and  Dough 

Bungenberg  de  Jong  states  that  gliadin  is  a  protein  that  swells  easily  in 
water,  is  readily  peptized  to  a  colloidal  solution  by  dilute  alkali  or  acid  and 
in  water  forms  a  sticky  mass  that  can  easily  be  stretched  into  threads. 
Glutenin  in  water  is  a  flaky  mass  without  much  coherence  which  swells  in, 
but  is  diflficult  to  peptize  in  dilute  acid.  It  peptizes  easily  in  alkali. 

Bungenberg  de  Jong  suggests  that  the  plastic  and  elastic  properties  of 
gluten  are  partially  due  to  the  two  proteins'  adhering  to  each  other  because 
of  opposite  charges  throughout  a  definite  pH  range.  If  this  is  true,  he  says 
that  at  the  pH  at  which  the  charge  on  each  protein  is  the  same  either  a 
maximum  or  minimum  in  physical  properties  should  occur,  i.e.,  turbidity, 
coherence,  farinogram  curves  (which  is  a  measure  of  consistency  of  the 
dough).  The  point  at  which  this  maximum  occurs  might  be  altered  by  the 
presence  of  other  proteins,  such  as  albumin  and  globulin  with  isoelectric 


418 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


points  much  lower  than  that  of  glutenin,  hence  would  be  negatively 
charged  at  the  pH  range  at  which  the  gliadin-gluten  complex  occurs.  He 
also  discusses  the  possibility  of  salts  altering  the  maximum  point.  Jong 
represents  this  maximum  or  minimum  range  schematically.  See  Fig.  44. 

Gliadin,  below  its  isoelectric  point  pH  6.4,  is  positively  charged,  this 
charge  increasing  as  the  pH  is  lowered.  However,  about  pH  5.6,  the 
isoelectric  point  of  glutenin,  the  glutenin  is  negatively  charged.  In  Bungen- 
berg  de  Jong's  experiments  maximum  turbidity  occurred  at  pH  6.1. 

Gluten  quality  and  proteolytic  enzymes.  Balls  and  Hale  ascribe 
part  of  the  quality  of  gluten  to  the  action  of  the  proteolytic  enzymes.  They 
state  that  the  proteolytic  enzymes  change  the  colloidal  character  of  wheat 
proteins,  the  effects  of  which  are  shown  in  the  gluten.  "Proteinases  usually 


Fig.  44. — Bungenberg  de  Jong's  representation  of  effect  of  charge  on  gliadin 
and  glutenin  on  gluten  properties.  The  charge  of  components  is  represented  by  posi- 
tive and  negative  signs.  J.  Soc.  Chem.  Ind.  52:  391T,  1933. 


produce  first  a  coagulation  of  the  protein ;  later  the  coagulated  material  Is 
broken  down  and  perhaps  ultimately  dissolved.  If  this  rule  holds  for  flour, 
in  the  first  phase  of  proteinase  action  the  gluten  would  probably  become  more 
tenacious;  in  the  second  phase  it  would  be  broken  down  to  a  thinner,  more 
nearly  liquid  material."  They  add  that  a  small  amount  of  proteinase  may  be 
beneficial,  a  larger  amount  harmful.  "Usually  there  is  too  much,  rather 
than  too  little." 

The  baking  qualities  of  gluten  are  determined  largely  by  Its  hydration 
capacity,  its  power  of  cohesion,  and  its  elasticity.  The  hydration  capacity 
results  in  a  larger  or  smaller  volume  when  mixed  with  water.  With  a 
larger  volume  the  particles  of  the  gluten  form  a  greater  surface  for  con- 
tact with  each  other,  thus  increasing  the  sponge-like  character  of  the 
dough.  Also  with  increased  swelling  the  gluten  becomes  more  tender 
and  less  tenacious ;  with  less  swelling  the  volume  is  smaller  but  the  tenacity 
may  be  greater.  The  swelling  can  be  so  great  that  there  is  a  limit  to  the 


HYDRATION  CAPACITY  419 

amount  of  stretching  the  gluten  will  stand  before  breaking.  The  cohesive- 
ness  of  the  gluten  gives  less  chance  for  the  gluten  particles  to  be  pulled 
apart ;  the  elasticity  permits  stretching  under  pressure  or  when  pulled. 

Hydration  capacity.  By  hydration  capacity  is  meant  the  swelling  of 
the  gluten  in  water,  whatever  the  mechanism  by  which  it  is  brought  about, 
whether  by  absorption  or  other  means.  Gortner  and  Doherty  have  reported 
that  a  strong  gluten  has  a  faster  rate  of  hydration,  or  imbibition  as  they 
express  it,  and  also  a  higher  maximum  hydration  capacity  than  a  weak 
gluten. 

Distribution  of  water  in  dough.  Alsberg  in  "Starch  and  Flour  Quality" 
states  that  in  bread  dough  about  50  per  cent  of  the  water  is  bound  moisture 
or  water  of  hydration  incapable  of  serving  as  a  solvent  for  other  substances. 
The  starch  holds  approximately  half  of  this  bound  water,  the  gluten  the 
remainder.  Starch  at  room  temperature  can  absorb  about  30  per  cent  of  its 
weight  of  water,  whereas  gluten  may  absorb  200  per  cent  of  its  weight.  But 
starch  constitutes  so  great  a  percentage  of  the  flour  that  as  a  result  the 
quantity  of  water  it  binds  is  nearly  as  great  as  that  bound  by  gluten.  The 
remaining  50  per  cent  of  the  water  in  bread  dough,  which  may  serve  as  a 
solvent  for  other  substances  and  form  steam,  cannot  be  separated  readily 
from  the  dough  by  mechanical  means.  It  is  held  in  the  interstices  of  the 
dough  by  surface  and  mechanical  forces. 

The  proportion  of  water  added.  The  proportion  of  water  added  also 
affects  the  character  of  the  dough  and  baked  product.  If  too  little  water  is 
added  the  maximum  cohesiveness  and  elasticity  of  the  gluten  is  not  at- 
tained. 

Water-binding  capacity  of  flour,  dough,  and  bread.  Kuhlmann  and 
Golossowa  found  that  the  water-binding  capacity  of  the  flours  they  tested 
was  in  the  following  order :  Soya,  rye,  corn  maize,  durum  wheat,  soft  wheat, 
and  potato.  No  complete  parallelism  existed  between  the  protein  content  of 
the  flours  and  their  water-binding  capacity.  Rye  starch  had  a  water-binding 
capacity  of  78  to  80  per  cent,  whereas  that  of  wheat  starch  was  40  to  42 
per  cent.  A  direct  relationship  was  found  between  the  water-absorbing 
capacity  of  the  flour  and  its  water-binding  capacity. 

The  water-binding  capacity  of  bread  doughs  was  about  the  same  as  flour, 
but  a  sharp  increase  occurred  in  bound  water  during  baking  so  that  a  dough 
with  a  water-binding  capacity  of  60  per  cent  changed  to  about  85  per  cent 
in  hot  bread. 

Kuhlmann  and  Golossowa  found  that  the  factors  which  increased  the 
water-binding  capacity  of  the  dough  decreased  moisture  loss  in  baking  and 
in  drying  out  or  aging  of  the  bread  after  baking.  Both  the  method  of  making 
the  dough  and  materials  used  influenced  the  water-binding  capacity.  Doughs 
made  by  a  straight-dough  method  bound  more  water  than  those  made  by 
the  sponge  method.  When  the  flour  for  the  sponge  method  was  scalded,  the 


420  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

water-binding  capacity  was  markedly  increased  over  dough  or  bread  made 
by  the  sponge  method  without  scalding  and  slightly  higher  than  dough  made 
by  the  straight-dough  method.  The  addition  of  maltose  and  buttermilk 
increased  the  water-binding  capacity  of  the  doughs  and  bread. 

The  hydration  of  a  gluten  and  hence  its  tenacity  or  cohesiveness,  and 
its  elasticity  or  extensibility,  may  be  altered,  that  is  increased  or  decreased, 
by:  (1)  over-grinding,  (2)  bringing  the  dough  to  a  certain  acidity  or 
alkalinity  and  subsequent  neutralization,  (3)  treating  with  alcohol,  (4) 
salts,  (5)  alkalies,  (6)  acids,  (7)  proportion  of  water  used,  (8)  added 
substances,  (9)  temperature,  (10)  time  of  standing,  (11)  mechanical 
treatment  of  the  dough,  and  (12)  fermentation. 

Over-grinding  has  been  considered.  The  effect  of  mechanical  treatment 
of  the  dough  and  fermentation  upon  gluten  will  be  considered  with  the 
discussion  of  bread  making.  The  effect  of  proportion  of  water  used  has 
been  considered  and  that  of  added  substances  will  be  considered  under 
dough  structure. 

Bringiriff  the  dough  to  a  certain  acidity  or  alkalinity  and  subsequent 
neutralization.  The  quality  of  the  gluten  can  be  altered  by  increasing  the 
acidity  or  alkalinity.  Gortner  and  Johnson  have  found  that  "doughs 
brought  to  /)H  3.0  or  11.0  by  the  addition  of  acid  or  alkali  and  in  which 
the  acid  or  alkali  has  been  subsequently  neutralized,  have  lost  their  bak- 
ing strength." 

Treating  with  alcohol.  Gortner  and  Johnson  have  found  that  flour 
treated  with  70  to  85  per  cent  alcohol,  from  which  the  alcohol  is  evapo- 
rated, and  the  flour  dried  and  remilled,  when  used  in  bread  has  lost  its  bak- 
ing quality.  They  attribute  this  to  a  loss  in  colloidal  properties  brought 
about  by  action  of  alcohol  on  the  glutenin  of  the  flour. 

Salts.  The  imbibition  of  water  by  gluten,  and  thus  the  swelling,  may 
be  depressed  considerably  by  salts.  This  may  be  brought  about  by  the  salts 
found  in  the  flour,  by  the  addition  of  salts  like  baking  powders  to  flour 
mixtures,  or  by  the  addition  of  the  so-called  flour  improvers  to  weak  flours. 
The  inhibiting  effect  may  be  due  to  the  cation  or  the  anion  of  the  salt. 
Different  salts  depress  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  gluten  in  different 
proportions,  that  is,  in  the  order  of  a  lyotropic  series.  See  also  the  section 
on  proteins. 

Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte  have  reported  that  the  addition  of  monocalcium 
phosphate  to  a  dough  effected  a  slight  increase  in  the  extensibility  of 
gluten.  They  find  no  increase  in  extensibility  of  the  dough,  as  measured 
in  the  Chopin  extensimeter,  when  calcium  sulfate  and  magnesium  sulfate 
are  added  in  the  proportions  used  in  commercial  practise. 

Alkalies.  The  hydration  capacity  of  gluten  on  the  alkaline  side  of  the 
isoelectric  point  reaches  its  maximum  capacity  at  a  pYL  11.0.  Beyond  a  /)H 
11.0  the  gluten  dissolves  very  rapidly  with  increasing  alkalinity.  Since 
gluten  proteins  tend  to  imbibe  water  and  disperse  in  a  weakly  alkaline 


HYDRATION  CAPACITY  421 

medium,  doughs  with  a  slight  alkaline  reaction  are  sticky.  With  excess 
alkali  they  become  yellow  and  develop  a  soapy  taste.  Since  the  proteins  are 
peptized  readily  with  alkali,  a  product  with  a  pH  higher  than  7  is  quite 
tender.  Thus  chocolate  cakes  and  gingerbread  with  excess  alkali  (soda)  are 
very  tender,  though  the  cell  walls  are  very  thick. 

Acids.  Acids  as  well  as  salts  and  alkalies  markedly  influence  the  hydra- 
tion capacity  of  gluten.  The  hydration  capacity  of  gluten  is  increased  with 
increased  hydrogen-ion  concentration  until  a  pH  of  3.0  is  reached.  With  a 
pH  lower  than  3.0  the  hydration  capacity  is  decreased.  Gortner  and 
Sharp  have  shown  that  the  various  acids  produce  a  maximum  hydration 
at  pH  3.0.  On  the  acid  side  of  the  isoelectric  point  the  gluten  is  not 
dispersed  as  rapidly  as  on  the  alkaline  side,  so  that  doughs  with  an  acid 
reaction  are  more  tenacious,  and  not  so  sticky  as  ones  with  an  alkaline 
reaction.  During  fermentation  of  bread  the  development  of  acids  gives  an 
acid  reaction  to  the  dough,  increases  the  hydration  and  solubility  of  the 
proteins  and  thus  the  tenderness  of  the  resulting  bread. 

Time  of  standing.  Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte  have  reported  that  time  of 
standing  of  the  dough  after  mixing  influences  the  extensibility  of  the 
dough.  The  greater  part  of  this  increase  in  elasticity  or  ease  of  handling 
is  quite  noticeable  in  many  dough  products.  Pastry  and  other  products 
are  easier  to  handle  if  allowed  to  stand  a  short  time  after  mixing,  before 
they  are  rolled  or  baked. 

Temperature.  Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte  have  reported  that  temperature 
markedly  influences  the  extensibility  of  a  flour  and  water  dough.  With 
increasing  temperature  the  dough  becomes  more  elastic  and  less  tenacious. 
Kent-Jones  in  reporting  the  experiments  of  Luers*  comments  on  the  influ- 
ence of  temperature  on  hydration  capacity.  At  a  temperature  of  8°  to  9°C. 
the  imbibition  of  water  by  gliadin  was  quite  low  and  he  speaks  of  it  as 
almost  **an  anti-swelling  effect."  At  higher  temperatures  the  gluten  becomes 
more  elastic.  This  is  of  great  importance  in  baking,  for  without  this  quality 
the  cell  walls  of  the  dough  would  break  and  coalesce  before  the  tempera- 
ture was  reached  at  which  the  protein  is  coagulated.  As  a  result  the  volume 
of  the  product  would  either  not  increase  or  would  be  lessened  during 
baking. 

With  higher  temperatures  of  mixing  the  gluten  swells  more  rapidly  and 
this  affects  the  rapidity  with  which  it  develops  or  becomes  attenuated 
with  mixing. 

Swanson  in  his  article,  ''The  Theory  of  Colloidal  Behavior  in  Dough," 
gives  a  good  description  of  dough  structure.  The  following  account  is 
based  upon  his  article,  upon  other  reading,  and  upon  observation. 

Bread  dough  has  two  continuous  phases:  water  constitutes  one,  and 
gluten  the  other. 

*  Luers,  H.,  Koll.  Zeitschrift,  25 :  Nov.,  1919. 


422  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

Starch  in  dough.  When  flour  is  mixed  with  water  to  form  a  dough 
the  starch  granules  retain  their  shape.  They  also  have  a  certain  rigidity  and 
little  adhesive  power,  so  that  they  are  not  easily  pulled  or  squeezed  out  of 
shape  and  do  not  adhere  to  each  other. 

Gluten  particles  in  dough.  In  contrast  to  the  starch  particles  in 
dough,  the  gluten  particles  behave  as  if  their  shape  is  very  irregular.  In  the 
flour  the  shape  may  be  regular,  but  it  is  the  shape  in  the  dough  that  gives 
the  dough  part  of  its  distinctive  baking  properties.  On  account  of  this 
irregular  shape  the  particles  have  a  very  large  surface  area.  When  swollen 
with  water  they  can  be  easily  pulled,  squeezed,  or  packed  into  different 
shapes. 

The  protein  particles  in  the  flour  may  be  compared  to  chewing  gum,  for 
many  of  the  properties  are  similar.  Anyone  who  has  chewed  gum  is 
familiar  with  its  manipulation,  so  that  it  makes  an  excellent  illustration. 
The  size  of  the  piece  of  gum  is  very  much  larger  than  that  of  the  protein 
particle.  The  stick  of  chewing  gum  w^hen  first  placed  in  the  mouth  may 
be  brittle  and  crumbly.  As  it  becomes  moist  it  sticks  together  and  develops 
tenacity,  adhesiveness,  and  cohesiveness.  If  two  sticks  of  gum  that  have 
been  chewed  are  brought  in  contact  with  each  other  they  adhere  or  stick 
together;  if  pulled,  they  stretch.  In  the  literature  on  dough,  this  change 
in  shape  through  hydration,  surface  contact,  and  particles  adhering  to 
each  other  is  called  attenuation.  The  more  the  pieces  of  gum  are  pulled 
the  more  attenuated  they  become,  but  if  the  elastic  strands  touch  each 
other  in  large  areas  they  adhere,  and  when  worked  more  and  more,  they 
become  matted  together  in  one  piece. 

When  the  protein  particles  in  the  dough  become  moist  they  sw^ell  and 
form  gluten.  The  behavior  of  the  protein  particles  when  moistened  is 
similar  to  that  of  the  gum.  When  first  moistened  they  are  crumbly  and  do 
not  adhere  together.  After  the  particles  become  hydrated  they  become  sticky 
and  tenacious.  When  the  dough  is  stirred  the  surfaces  of  the  particles  come 
in  contact  and  adhere  to  each  other.  The  stirring  of  the  dough  stretches 
and  pulls  the  surface  contacts  so  that  the  gluten  becomes  attenuated  and 
filaments  formed.  Attentuation  of  the  gluten  is  often  referred  to  as  develop- 
ing the  gluten  or  dough. 

Gluten  forms  a  continuous  phase  in  dough.  The  protein  in  the 
dough  forms  a  continuous  network  or  mesh  structure  throughout  the 
dough.  In  this  meshwork  are  the  starch  granules,  the  sugar,  salts,  and 
water. 

The  protein  particles  compose  only  a  portion  of  the  flour  content, 
although  after  they  are  hydrated  the  relative  volume  that  they  occupy  in 
the  dough  is  greater  than  their  volume  in  the  flour.  If  to  the  chewing  gum 
we  add  some  small  round  particles  that  do  not  change  their  shape  and 
are  about  the  size  of  small  tapioca  a  better  picture  of  dough  structure 


STARCH  423 

is  obtained.  The  small  round  particles  will  prevent  the  chewing  gum  from 
forming  one  solid  mass  and  will  tend  to  keep  the  pieces  of  gum  apart,  so 
that  manipulation  and  sliding  over  the  round  particles  is  required  to  bring 
different  surfaces  of  the  gum  in  contact  with  each  other.  In  the  dough  the 
whole  starch  granules  do  not  swell  appreciably  until  a  temperature  of 
60°  to  65  °C.  is  reached.  Thus  in  a  dough  mixed  at  ordinary  temperatures 
they  do  not  change  their  volume  or  shape. 

A  good  quality  of  gluten  adheres  strongly  to  other  particles  of  gluten 
and  forms  many  strands  of  network  around  the  starch  granules.  A  good 
quality  of  gluten  must  be  elastic  enough  to  stretch  around  the  starch 
granules,  and  in  addition  stretch  and  retain  gas  bubbles  formed  in  the 
dough  that  make  the  structure  porous.  No  dough  will  retain  all  the  gas 
formed  within  it,  but  a  gluten  of  good  quality  will  retain  a  very  large 
portion  of  the  gas  bubbles.  A  poor  quality  of  gluten  will  not  stretch  when 
the  gas  is  formed  but  will  break  in  places,  and  too  large  a  proportion  of 
the  gas  formed  is  lost. 

There  are  many  different  qualities  of  gluten  in  different  wheats.  Some 
may  be  very  soft  and  not  very  tenacious;  some  may  be  like  the  ones 
described  above;  and  others  may  be  so  strong  that  they  are  tenacious 
enough  not  to  stretch  without  excess  pressure.  Such  glutens  are  improved 
by  blending  with  weaker  glutens.  Flour  from  the  large  mills  is  blended  to 
produce  a  working  quality  of  gluten  that  gives  similar  results  when  baked 
in  different  batches.  Strong  glutens  may  be  improved  by  the  addition  of 
malt  extract,  which  contains  a  larger  proportion  of  the  proteolytic  enzyme 
proteinase  than  is  found  in  the  flour.  Since  part  of  the  protein  is  hydrolyzed 
by  the  proteinase  there  is  not  such  a  compact  mass  left  and  the  remaining 
gluten  is  softer  and  more  elastic. 

Effect  of  Added  Substances  on  Gluten  of  Dough 

Egg.  In  thin  batters,  to  improve  the  baking  quality  or  to  give  structure 
to  the  finished  product,  eggs  are  added.  Without  their  addition  only  a 
thickened  mass  with  no  increased  volume  is  obtained.  The  egg  protein 
coagulates  when  heated  and  with  the  gluten  retains  the  gas  formed  in 
the  batter. 

Fat.  The  addition  of  fat  gives  a  shorter  dough  or  a  more  tender  one. 
By  short,  bakers  refer  to  the  gluten  breaking  quickly  and  not  adhering 
tenaciously.  Fat  causes  the  gluten  threads  to  pull  or  break  apart  more 
easily.  In  other  words,  it  might  be  stated  that  when  the  gluten  particles 
are  "greased"  or  lubricated  they  adhere  less  strongly. 

Starch.  Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte  have  found  that  the  addition  of  starch 
to  a  bread  flour  results  in  a  decreased  extensibility.  The  addition  of  10  per 
cent  of  starch  decreases  the  extensibility  only  a  little,  but  the  addition  of 


424  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

larger  quantities  decreases  it  to  a  greater  extent.  The  gas-retaining  capacity 
of  the  dough  and  the  quality  of  the  bread  are  also  impaired.  However, 
since  the  added  starch  is  not  embedded  in  gluten  and  the  diastase  can  act  on 
such  starch  quickly,  Alsberg  states  that  carbon  dioxide  will  be  formed  more 
rapidly,  with  which  statement  Johnson  and  Bailey  agreed. 

Cooked  mashed  potatoes  are  sometimes  added  to  bread  doughs.  Since 
the  starch  is  cooked,  judging  from  Kuhlmann  and  Golossowa's  results,  the 
water-binding  capacity  of  the  dough  and  bread  should  be  increased;  but 
too  large  a  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes  because  of  the  dilution  of  the  gluten 
may  impair  the  quality  of  the  bread. 

Sugar.  Jago  reports  that  sugar  causes  a  diminution  of  the  amount  of 
gluten  that  can  be  washed  from  a  dough.  When  the  sugar  was  added  to 
the  dough  and  the  gluten  extracted  with  alcohol  much  more  gluten  was 
dissolved,  from  which  he  concluded  that  sugar  has  a  solvent  action  on  gluten. 

Baking  powder.  Baking  powder  is  added  to  dough  as  a  leavening  agent, 
that  is,  to  produce  carbon  dioxide  gas  to  stretch  the  gluten  and  produce 
a  porous  texture.  The  ingredients  of  the  baking  powder  and  the  residue 
of  the  salts  formed  from  the  reaction  of  the  baking  powder  may  have  either 
an  inhibiting  or  accelerating  effect  upon  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  gluten, 
depending  upon  the  particular  cations  and  anions  of  the  baking  powders 
or  their  salts. 

Bread 

Bread  is  made  of  flour,  water,  salt,  fat,  and  sugar.  To  these  ingredients 
the  yeast  plant  is  added.  The  right  treatment  of  the  whole  mass  gives 
a  loaf  of  bread  of  good  volume  containing  cells  of  definite  structure  and 
size. 

Bread  is  a  very  complex  substance.  In  addition  to  organic  and  inorganic 
materials  it  contains  three  substances  that  show  colloidal  behavior:  the 
protein,  the  starch,  and  the  cellulose.  The  amount  of  cellulose  is  quite 
small,  so  that  it  probably  plays  a  very  minor  role  in  bread  making.  The 
part  that  different  constituents  of  the  flour  play  in  the  dough  structure 
has  been  discussed  in  the  preceding  pages.  Their  part  in  bread  making 
will  not  be  repeated  here,  but  the  proportion  of  ingredients  used,  the 
temperature  for  handling  the  dough  and  for  baking,  the  fermentation,  and 
the  importance  of  manipulation  of  the  dough  will  be  considered. 

Chemical  and  physical  tests  may  be  performed  on  flour  and  dough,  but 
as  yet  the  only  final  convincing  proof  of  flour  quality  for  making  bread 
is  the  baking  test. 

Temperature.  Enzyme  activity  is  very  slow  at  low  temperatures  and 
the  enzymes  are  destroyed  at  high  temperatures.  Thus  for  optimum  enzyme 
activity  and  also  for  yeast  growth  in  bread  dough  it  is  important  to  keep 
the  dough  at  definite  temperatures. 


PROPORTION  OF  INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  BREAD    425 

Fermentation  is  carried  out  over  a  wide  range  of  temperature.  The 
evidence  indicates  that  a  low  temperature  is  more  desirable  from  the  stand- 
point of  flavor  and  the  development  of  acetylmethylcarbinol.  But  fermenta- 
tion is  more  rapid  at  higher  temperatures.  Temperatures  from  26°  to 
32°C.  (79°  to  90°F.)  are  used.  There  is  more  danger  at  higher  tempera- 
tures for  growth  of  undesirable  organisms  which  produce  disagreeable 
flavors. 

Proportion  of  ingredients  used  in  bread.  The  American  Asso- 
ciation of  Cereal  Chemists  (A.A.C.C.)  appointed  a  committee,  headed 
by  Fitz,  later  by  Blish  and  others,  to  find  the  proportion  of  ingredients 
used  by  members  of  the  association  in  test  bakes,  and  to  formulate  a  stand- 
ard method  of  procedure  and  a  definite  formula  for  use  by  members  of 
the  association. 

Flour.  It  is  customary  in  computing  the  percentage  of  ingredients  used 
in  bread  to  take  flour  as  100  and  compute  the  proportion  of  the  other 
ingredients  in  relation  to  it.  Thus  if  112  grams  of  flour  are  used  and  to 
this  is  added  65  per  cent  of  water,  72.8  grams  of  water  would  be  used. 
It  requires  about  %  pound  of  flour  to  produce  a  pound  loaf  of  bread,  though 
the  exact  amount  depends  largely  upon  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  gluten. 

Yeast.  Two  types  of  commercial  yeast  may  be  purchased,  the  com- 
pressed and  the  dry.  A  cake  of  compressed  yeast  contains  many  yeast  plants 
in  an  active  state.  When  it  is  used  the  yeast  plants  multiply  rapidly,  pro- 
ducing a  large  quantity  of  carbon  dioxide  gas,  and  the  fermentation  takes 
place  in  a  short  time. 

In  dry  yeast  the  yeast  is  mixed  with  corn  meal  and  dried.  The  yeast 
plants  are  not  active,  as  they  are  in  a  dormant  state  and  they  are  few  in 
number.  The  yeast  needs  to  be  soaked  for  a  short  time  in  warm  water  and 
then  made  into  a  sponge  to  give  time  for  the  revival  and  growth  of  the 
yeast  plants.  Therefore  it  requires  a  longer  fermentation  period  than  com- 
pressed yeast. 

In  addition  to  the  dry  and  the  compressed  yeast,  two  other  types  of  yeast 
are  used  by  housewives,  chiefly  farm  women,  where  yeast  cakes  or  bread 
cannot  be  delivered  every  day.  A  liquid  yeast  may  be  used  and  also  a  starter. 
The  starter  is  a  portion  of  the  sponge  that  is  saved  to  start  the  fermentation 
of  the  next  baking  of  bread.  Since  the  sponge  or  dough  contains  numerous 
yeast  plants  it  is  used  instead  of  yeast  cakes  for  the  adding  of  yeast  plants 
to  the  dough.  To  this  starter  sugar  is  added  for  food  for  the  growth  of 
the  yeast  during  storage. 

After  yeast  is  added  to  the  bread  a  period  of  time  elapses  before  the 
bread  is  baked.  This  period,  the  length  of  which  depends  upon  the  propor- 
tion of  ingredients  and  the  kind  of  yeast  used,  is  called  the  fermentation 
period.  Bakers  call  it  ''proofing"  and  housewives  "rising." 

Amount  of  yeast.  The  amount  of  yeast  used  in  bread  may  vary  in  wide 
proportions.  Fitz  found  that  as  a  general  rule  bakers  use  2  to  3  per  cent  of 


426 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


yeast,  although  the  amount  varies  from  1  to  5.88  per  cent.  For  home  or 
school  the  amount  may  be  increased  according  to  the  length  of  time  allowed 
for  the  fermentation  period. 

The  following  table  taken  from  the  pamphlet  ''Baking  Better  Bread" 
by  the  Washburn  Crosby  Company  gives  the  amount  of  yeast  to  use  for 
different  periods  of  fermentation  for  straight-dough  process. 

TABLE  47 


Amount  of  yeast 

Period  of  fermentation 

Temperature 

1  cake  of  yeast  to  \}i  cups  liquid  .... 

4  hours 
2  hours  1st  rising 
1  hour  2nd  rising 
1  hour  in  pans 

80 

2  cakes  of  yeast  to  1^  cups  liquid  .  .  . 

vS  hours 

V/2  hours  1st  rising 
45  minutes  2nd  rising 
45  minutes  in  pans 

80 

3  cakes  of  yeast  to  \}4  cups  liquid  .  .  . 

2  hours  10  minutes 
1  hour  1st  rising 
15  minutes  2nd  rising 
35  minutes  in  pans 

80 

4  cakes  of  yeast  to  1>^  cups  liquid  .  .  . 

1  hour 
25  minutes  1st  rising 
5  minutes  2nd  rising 
30  minutes  in  pans 

80 

Water.  Milk  may  be  substituted  for  water  in  bread.  It  is  usually  scalded 
to  destroy  any  bacteria  or  organisms  that  may  produce  undesirable  flavors 
or  be  detrimental  to  yeast  action.  Since  milk  contains  about  12  to  14  per 
cent  solids,  a  larger  proportion  of  it  is  added  than  of  water.  Water  in 
which  potatoes  have  been  cooked  is  sometimes  used  for  a  part  of  the  liquid 
in  bread.  Because  of  the  development  of  rope  in  hot  weather,  it  is  often 
desirable  in  home-made  bread  to  add  the  whey  of  sour  milk  during  the 
summer. 

The  best  proportion  of  water  varies  with  the  hydration  capacity  of  the 
gluten  in  the  particular  flour  that  is  being  used.  The  proportion  as  reported 
in  the  literature  varies  from  about  51  to  67  per  cent.  Good  bread  flours 
usually  require  from  60  to  65  per  cent  of  water.  Soft-wheat  flours,  w^hich 
have  weaker  glutens,  require  a  lower  proportion  of  water. 

Effect  of  proportion  of  water  used.  The  proportion  of  water  used  affects 
the  tenacity  and  extensibility  of  the  gluten  and  hence  the  resulting  dough. 


PROPORTION  OF  INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  BREAD    427 


Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte  have  found  that  the  extensibility  of  the  dough 
increased  with  increasing  water  content  until  an  imbibition  equivalent  to 
64  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  flour  was  obtained.  Further  increase  of 
water  and  increased  hydration  decreased  the  extensibility  of  the  dough. 
The  following  table  is  from  their  results  with  the  Chopin  extensimeter. 

TABLE  48 
Effect  of  Increasing  Water  in  a  Dough  {Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte) 


Absorption,  per  cent 

Extensibility 

Reading  for  tenacity, 
millimeters 

59 

18.65 

125.0 

60 

18.80 

122.0 

61 

18.90 

121.0 

62 

19.50 

117.1 

63 

19.77 

114.7 

64 

21.00 

99.7 

65 

20.96 

94.5 

66 

20.48 

94.5 

67 

19.66 

92.3 

Swanson  and  Working  have  reported  in  experiments  with  mechanical 
modification  of  the  dough,  using  340  grams  of  flour,  that  the  best  loaf 
of  bread  was  produced  when  205  to  215  cc.  of  water  was  used.  In  the 
proportions  of  water  used  by  them  the  205  cc.  is  equivalent  to  60  per  cent 
of  the  weight  of  the  flour  and  215  cc.  to  63  per  cent.  When  a  smaller 
amount  of  water  than  60  per  cent  was  used  a  loaf  of  poor  volume  was 
obtained. 

Harrel  has  also  reported  that  better  bread  is  produced  when  the  amount 
of  water  used  is  sufficient.  Table  49  from  his  results  is  self-explanatory. 

The  hydration  capacity  of  different  glutens  varies,  hence  the  maximum 
volume  with  any  flour  will  be  obtained  with  a  definite  water  imbibition 
for  that  gluten.  With  increased  swelling  beyond  the  point  at  which  the 
maximum  volume  is  obtained  the  gluten  becomes  more  tender  and  less 
tenacious,  some  of  the  cell  walls  collapse  and  coalesce,  thus  giving  a  smaller 
volume.  With  less  swelling  than  the  amount  required  to  produce  the 
maximum  volume  the  tenacity  is  greater  and  a  smaller  volume  results.  The 
hydration  of  the  gluten  can  be  so  great  that  there  is  a  limit  to  the  amount 
of  stretching  the  gluten  will  stand  and  a  very  poor  volume  is  the  result. 

Sugar.  Fitz  reports  that  the  average  proportion  of  sugar  used  by  bakers 
varies  from  2  to  5  per  cent. 

Shortening.  Fitz  has  reported  that  the  amount  of  shortening  used  by 
bakers  varies  from  0  to  3  1/3  per  cent.  It  is  not  necessary  to  add  shortening 


428 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


TABLE  49 

Variations  Caused  by  Different  Absorptions  on  Properties  of  Bread 

{Harrel) 


Absorption 

Volume  of  loaf,  cc. 

Spring  in  oven 

Color  of  crumb 

50 

2550 

fair 

good  minus 

55 

3100 

fair  plus 

good 

60 

3275 

good 

good 

65 

3300 

good 

good 

70 

3LS0 

good  minus 

good 

75 

2700 

fair 

slightly  dull 

to  make  good  bread,  but  Whymper  states  that  even  a  low  percentage  adds 
to  the  keeping  quality  of  the  bread,  for  the  bread  stales  less  readily. 

Salt.  Fritz  has  reported  that  the  amount  of  salt  used  by  bakers  averages 
from  1.5  to  2  per  cent  and  varies  from  1.35  to  2.12  per  cent.  The  use  of 
salt  is  important  in  bread  making.  If  it  is  not  added  to  the  dough,  fer- 
mentation takes  place  very  rapidly  and  the  bread  is  too  porous.  If  too  much 
is  used,  fermentation  is  slow  and  the  bread  is  firmer  and  more  compact. 

Proportion  of  ingredients  in  bread  dough.  The  committee  on  the  stand- 
ardization of  experimental  baking  tests  of  the  A.A.C.C.  have  suggested 
formulas  for  baking  tests,  which  are  given  in  the  laboratory  outline.  Experi- 
ment 73. 

Methods  of  mixing.  Straight-dough  process.  Two  processes  are  used 
in  making  bread.  One  is  called  the  straight-dough  process  or  quick  method. 
In  this  process  all  the  flour  and  other  ingredients  of  the  bread  are  mixed 
together  in  the  dough  for  the  whole  fermentation  period. 

Sponge  process.  By  this  method  the  salt  and  a  part  of  the  flour  are 
omitted  during  the  first  part  of  the  fermentation  period.  Then  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  and  the  salt  are  added  to  make  a  dough,  and  from 
this  point  the  manner  of  mixing  and  treatment  of  dough  are  the  same  for 
the  two  processes.  The  sponge  method  is  always  used  with  dry  yeast  and 
may  be  used  with  compressed  yeast. 

Method  of  mixing  ingredients.  The  committee  on  formula  and 
method  of  mixing,  Fitz  chairman,  have  suggested  the  following  procedure. 
"Thoroughly  dissolve  sugar  and  salt  in  a  portion  of  the  water,  mix  yeast 
in  another.  Use  water  at  a  temperature  to  bring  dough  out  at  approxi- 
mately 30°C.  Add  the  solution  to  the  flour,  rinsing  with  balance  of  water, 
then  add  shortening  in  melted  form.  Mix  thoroughly  to  a  smooth  dough. 
This  may  require  3  to  10  minutes  depending  on  type  of  mechanical  mixer 
used.  Remove  the  dough,  fold  into  smooth  dough  ball  and  place  in  battery 
jar  (6  by  8  inches),  cover,  and  place  in  dough  cabinet  at  30°C.  and  let 
rise  until  ready  to  punch."  See  Experiment  73. 


MANIPULATION  OF  DOUGH 


429 


Effect  of  mechanical  treatment  on  extensibility  of  dough.  Bailey 
and  Le  Vesconte  have  reported  that  prolonged  mixing  may  destroy  the 
cohesiveness  of  the  gluten. 

The  most  extended  experiments  on  the  mechanical  modification  of  gluten 
quality  that  have  been  reported  are  those  of  Swanson  and  Working.  They 
devised  a  machine  with  a  "pack-squeeze-pull-tear  fashion."  By  mixing  the 
dough  for  a  longer  time  in  this  bread  mixer  they  found  that  the  bread  could 
be  baked  at  the  end  of  the  first  fermentation  period,  thus  decidedly  shorten- 
ing the  total  time  for  fermentation.  The  prolonged  mixing  altered  the 
gluten  quality  so  that  less  time  was  needed  for  fermentation.  ''The  figures 
for  volume,  color  and  texture  show  a  progressive  improvement  with  the 
length  of  time  of  mixing."  Dough  mixed  for  15  minutes  produced  a  loaf 
better  in  every  way  than  a  loaf  mixed  3  minutes  and  then  fermented  in 
the  usual  way.  When  the  revolutions  per  minute  were  increased  from  60 
to  120,  it  was  found  that  7  minutes  would  produce  as  good  bread  as  15 
minutes  at  the  slower  rate.  The  following  table  gives  their  results.  The 
first  figures  are  for  the  control  fermented  in  the  usual  way  after  3  minutes 
of  mixing. 

TABLE  50 

Effect  of  Mixing  for  Different  Lengths  of  Time  on  the  Quality  of 
Bread  Baked  with  Only  Panary  Fermentation 

{Swanson  and  Working) 


Total  time  of  me- 
chanical treatment 
60  r.p.m.,  minutes 

Total  time 
of  fermen- 
tation, 
minutes 

Volume  of 
loaf,  cc. 

Color  score 

Texture 
score 

Control    3 

157 

1955 

95 

94 

3                 .    . 

61 

58 
54 
54 

54 
55 
55 

1690 
1785 
1880 
2045 
2070 
2040 
1990 

92 
94 
96 
100 
100 
100 
100 

85 

6 

10 

88 
90 

15 

20 

98 
99 

30 

40 

99 
96 

Manipulation  of  dough.  In  the  laboratory  in  experimental  cookery, 
one  is  constantly  impressed  by  the  effect  of  manipulation  and  the  handling 
of  the  food  materials  in  giving  results  that  are  not  strictly  uniform. 

Swanson  states  that  it  is  well  known  that  bread  dough  must  not  be 
squeezed  too  hard  when  kneaded  just  before  it  is  put  in  the  pan,  or  the  cell 
walls  will  be  thickened.  He  gives  as  the  reason  that  during  the  fermenta- 


430  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

tion  the  meshwork  of  gluten  has  become  separated  into  fine  filaments.  If 
kneaded  too  hard  just  before  being  put  in  the  pan  these  filaments  are 
packed  together  and  as  a  result  a  thicker  cell  wall  is  produced. 

The  experiments  of  Dunlap  are  of  particular  interest.  At  the  Bureau  of 
Chemistry  in  Washington,  he  and  two  other  operators  mixed  dough.  The 
only  difference  in  the  mixing  was  the  way  the  dough  was  kneaded  or 
punched  after  the  first  mixing  by  the  different  operators.  Dunlap's  descrip- 
tion follows.  "In  these  experiments  the  three  operators  used  identical 
formulas  and  ingredients  in  preparing  the  dough  batches.  The  mixers  were 
all  started  at  the  same  time,  the  water  and  shortening  were  added  at  the 
identical  instant,  and  the  extent  of  the  mixing  was  absolutely  uniform. 
All  fermentations  were  carried  out  in  the  same  cabinet  and  at  the  same 
time  and  for  the  same  period.  All  punches  were  synchronous  and  the  work- 
ing or  punching  of  the  dough  was  uniform,  that  is,  the  doughs  were  w^orked 
or  punched  with  the  hand  40  times  after  the  first  rise  and  30  times  after 
the  second.  The  doughs  went  to  the  same  proofing  cabinet  and  at  the  same 
time.  In  fact  uniformity  so  far  as  was  humanly  possible  prevailed  through- 
out. When  the  bakes  came  from  the  oven,  the  results  were  very  illumi- 
nating for  despite  the  care  taken,  they  were  far  from  uniform."  These 
experiments  were  repeated  several  times  with  the  same  results. 

In  later  experiments  carried  on  in  another  laboratory,  Dunlap  decided 
he  had  punished  the  dough  too  hard  or  used  too  much  pressure  in  punch- 
ing it,  especially  for  the  last  working.  He  states,  ''Putting  this  idea  to  the 
test  and  handling  the  doughs  with  a  degree  of  gentleness  previously  un- 
known in  my  method  of  operation,  results  were  produced  incomparably 
better  than  anything  previously  obtained." 

Applying  these  results  it  can  be  stated  that  the  first  mixing  and  knead- 
ing, when  the  gluten  is  developed,  should  be  thorough,  but  may  not  need 
heavy  pressure,  and  the  second  and  third  kneading  should  be  done  with 
light  pressure  and  should  not  be  continued  for  too  long  a  period. 

The  mixing  of  the  bread  in  the  bowl  should  be  continued  until  the 
dough  forms  in  a  ball  and  cleans  the  side  of  the  bowl.  If  a  bread  mixer 
is  used  it  may  mix  and  knead  at  the  same  time. 

For  the  first  kneading,  only  a  thin  film  of  flour  should  be  used  on  the 
board,  unless  far  too  much  liquid  has  been  added.  Inexperienced  bread 
makers  usually  add  too  much  flour  in  kneading,  for  in  mixing  by  hand 
the  dough  should  be  sticky  when  kneading  is  begun.  After  the  gluten  is 
developed  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the  hands  or  board.  In  molding,  use  very 
little  or  preferably  no  flour,  for  flour  added  at  this  stage  may  produce 
streaks  in  the  bread,  since  this  flour  is  not  fermented  for  the  whole  period. 

Greasing  of  bowl  and  pans.  The  bowl  that  the  dough  is  allowed 
to  rise  in  should  have  only  a  thin  film  of  fat  to  grease  the  bowl,  or  it  is 
not  necessary  to  use  any.  Heavy  greasing  may  produce  streaks  in  the  bread. 
Harrel  found  that  bread  baked  in  ungreased  pans  gave  a  better  volume  and 
oven   spring  than   bread   baked   in   greased   pans.   This   indicates   that   the 


FERMENTATION  431 

dough  clings  to  the  sides  of  the  pan  during  rising,  and  this  adhesion  aids  in 
attaining  a  better  volume.  But  greasing  the  bottom  of  the  pan  expedites 
removal  of  the  bread. 

Fermentation.  The  production  of  gas  in  the  dough  to  render  the  bread 
porous  is  known  as  fermentation.  Both  yeast  and  bacteria  are  used  to  pro- 
duce gas,  bacteria  producing  the  gas  in  salt-rising  bread,  yeast  in  ordinary 
bread. 

Microorganisms  in  breadmaking.  Fuller  states  that  the  "microorganisms 
associated  with  the  production  of  bread  may  be  divided  into  three  main 
groups:  (1)  the  yeast  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae,  carefully  purified  and 
selected  strains  of  which  are  purposely  added  to  the  dough;  (2)  certain 
bacteria,  which,  introduced  either  purposely  or  accidentally,  assist  in  the 
development  of  the  gluten  and  give  rise  to  characteristic  flavoring  products ; 
and  (3)  the  unwanted  organisms,  B.  mesentericus,  torulae,  and  moulds, 
which  are  introduced  chiefly  from  flour,  air,  and  perhaps  water,  uninten- 
tionally either  into  the  dough  or  onto  the  baked  loaf." 

Fuller  states  that  it  seems  likely  that  attention  has  been  confined  too 
much  to  selecting  and  purifying  yeasts  in  relation  to  their  carbon  dioxide 
producing  powers  and  that  side  reactions,  i.e.,  bacteria-producing,  essential 
flavoring  ingredients  have  been  neglected.  He  cites  the  work  of  a  Russian 
microbiologist  who  examined  the  bacterial  flora  of  a  number  of  samples  of 
*'leaven."  The  dominant  organism  in  all  was  Lactobacillus  panis  acidi, 
with  Streptococcus  lactis  acidi  and  others  in  small  numbers.  Adding  Lacto- 
bacillus panis  acidi  to  yeast  gave  a  bread  with  flavor  superior  to  that  of 
bread  in  which  yeast  alone  was  used. 

Enzyme  action  in  fermentation.  The  yeast  contains  an  enzyme,  zymase, 
that  produces  carbon  dioxide  and  alcohol  from  the  sugar.  During  fermenta- 
tion many  changes  are  occurring  in  the  dough.  The  flour  enzymes  as  well 
as  the  yeast  enzymes  bring  about  definite  reactions.  The  chief  amylolytic 
enzyme  of  the  flour,  diastase,  produces  maltose  from  starch.  Flour  contains 
some  initial  sugar  but  this  is  used  up  in  gas  production  and  it  is  essential 
for  sugar  to  be  formed  for  new  gas  production.  Yeast  also  contains  some 
diastase.  Sugar  is  usually  added  to  bread  dough.  It  is  not  essential,  but 
fermentation  is  more  rapid.  Most  flours  contain  sufficient  diastase  for  bread 
making,  but  in  some  the  diastatic  activity  is  weak.  Commercial  bakers  may 
add  diastase  preparations  to  dough  made  of  flours  weak  in  diastase  to 
shorten  the  fermentation  time. 

Sugar  is  often  added  in  rather  large  quantities  in  home-made  bread  and 
it,  plus  the  sugars  already  present  in  the  flour,  plus  the  sugar  formed  by 
the  diastase  during  fermentation,  furnish  the  sugar  for  the  action  of  the 
zymase  to  produce  carbon  dioxide. 

The  proteinases  hydrolize  a  part  of  the  protein,  and  if  very  active  may  cause 
harmful  results.  For,  if  the  gluten,  which  during  the  first  part  of  fermenta- 
tion may  be  too  tenacious,  becomes  too  soft  or  thin  the  volume  of  the  loaf 
may  be  diminished  and  the  texture  impaired.  Balls  and  Hale  say  a  little 


432  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

proteinase  is  beneficial.  J0rgensen  states  that  yeast  water  stimulates  the 
activity  of  proteinase. 

''Bread  improvers."  Many  and  various  substances  have  been  suggested 
and  tried  as  so-called  "bread  improvers."  Malt  preparations  containing 
both  diastase  and  proteinase  are  sometimes  added  to  dough.  They  are  of 
greater  benefit  if  added  to  flours  low  in  natural  diastase.  The  rate  of 
diastatic  activity  may  depend  upon  the  relative  percentage  of  starch  which 
is  embedded  in  gluten,  the  size  of  the  starch  granules,  and  other  factors. 
With  many  granules  embedded  in  gluten  the  diastase  has  less  surface  on 
which  to  act.  If  the  starch  granules  are  smaller  there  is  a  relatively  greater 
area  for  the  action  of  the  diastase.  However,  Markley  and  Bailey  in  their 
investigations  found  particle  size  did  not  determine  diastatic  activity,  but 
that  the  rate  was  affected  by  humidity  of  the  granule  surface,  possibly  be- 
cause the  granule  wall  is  less  resistant. 

At  present  potassium  bromate  is  commonly  added  to  bread  dough  by 
commercial  bakers.  j0rgensen  states  that  it  imparts  a  beneficial  action 
because  it  diminishes  the  action  of  the  proteinase.  Balls  and  Hale  attribute 
part  of  the  improvement  of  bleaching  and  aging  of  flour  to  diminution  of 
proteinase  activity.  J0rgensen  has  applied  for  a  patent  in  the  United  States 
for  using  ascorbic  acid  as  a  bread  improver,  its  beneficial  effects  being  at- 
tributed to  its  ability  to  depress  plant-proteinases  of  the  papain-type. 

Imbibition  of  water  during  fermentation.  Sharp  and  Gortner  have  found 
that  during  yeast  fermentation  the  imbibition  of  water  increases  to  a  maxi- 
mum and  then  decreases.  The  increased  imbibition  during  fermentation 
is  due  to  the  increase  in  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  glutenin.  During 
fermentation  the  acidity  increases,  but  Johnson  and  Bailey  have  reported 
that  the  acids  of  fermentation  cannot  alone  produce  all  the  changes  that 
occur  during  fermentation.  The  proteolytic  enzymes  by  hydrolyzing  a  part 
of  the  protein  aid  in  softening  of  the  gluten.  Swanson  and  Working  have 
suggested  that  the  mechanical  action  of  the  expanding  gas  by  stretching 
the  gluten  also  aids  in  bringing  about  a  modification  of  the  gluten. 

Dispersion  of  gluten  during  fermentation.  Johnson  and  Bailey  in  study- 
ing the  efifect  of  hydrogen-ion  concentration  on  dispersion  of  the  gluten 
of  the  flour  found  that  as  the  acidity  increased  the  percentage  of  proteins 
dispersed  or  the  protein  in  the  aqueous  extract  of  the  fermented  dough 
increased.  It  is  either  very  diflficult  or  impossible  to  collect  the  gluten  from 
a  dough  that  has  fermented  sufficiently  for  baking,  by  washing  it  in  water. 
This  in  itself  shows  a  change  in  the  condition  of  the  gluten. 

Johnson  and  Bailey  have  reported  the  following  amount  of  protein 
dispersed,  or  in  the  aqueous  extract,  during  fermentation  of  a  soft-wheat 
dough,  without  added  salt.  At  an  optimum  pYi  for  baking  the  bread,  more 
than  half  the  protein  was  in  a  dispersed  phase. 

Desirable  acidity  for  bread.  As  fermentation  of  the  dough  progresses  its 
acidity  is  increased.  Johnson  has  reported  that  some  lactic  and  acetic  acids 
are  formed  during  fermentation.  Bailey  and  Sherwood  have  shown  that  in 


LENGTH  OF  FERMENTATION  PERIOD 


433 


TABLE  51  \  _ 

Effect  of  Fermentation  upon  Dispersion  of  Proteins  of  Flour 

{Johnson  and  Bailey) 


Hours  fermented 

pR 

Dispersed 

protein 

based  on  proteins  in  flour, 
per  cent 

0 

5.95 

15.14 

2 



17.70 

4 

.... 

20.60 

6 

5.49 

31.76 

8 

5.12 

77.22 

10 

4.60 

87.42 

12 

4.26 

89.42 

16 

3.92 

92.14 

18.5 

3.86 

93.70 

bread  dough  the  increased  acidity  is  largely  due  to  carbon  dioxide.  The  />H 
of  the  baked  bread  is  always  higher  than  that  of  the  dough  from  which 
it  is  baked.  For  an  average  gluten  a  ^H  of  about  5  is  desirable.  With  all 
doughs,  if  the  fermentation  is  carried  too  far  the  volume  of  the  bread  is 
poor  and  it  has  a  sour  odor  and  flavor.  The  following  table  is  from  Bailey 
and  Sherwood. 

TABLE  52 

Hydrogen-ion  Concentration  (in  Terms  of  ^H)  and  Titratable  Acidity 
OF  Bread  Dough  Suspensions  {Bailey  and  Sherwood) 


pW 


Dough  No.  1 

titratable 

acidity 


pn 


Dough  No.  2 

titratable 

acidity 


1.  Fresh  dough 

2.  Fresh  dough  after 

5  hours 

3.  Baked  bread 


5.76 

5.24 
5.43 


1.10 
3.36 


5.75 

5.18 
5.38 


1.10 
3.50 


Length  of  fermentation  period.  The  total  length  of  the  fermenta- 
tion period  depends  upon  the  proportion  of  yeast  used  and  the  temperature 
at  which  the  sponge  or  dough  is  kept.  The  first  rising  should  double  in 
bulk  and  should  spring  back  easily  when  pressed  with  the  finger.  It  is 
usually  given  the  longest  period  and  often  requires  70  per  cent  of  the 
total  fermentation  time.  The  dough  is  then  punched  and  worked  lightly  to 


434  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

allow  the  gas  to  escape.  The  second  rising  requires  a  shorter  time  than 
the  first  one,  and  the  dough  may  be  punched  and  molded  and  placed  in  the 
pans.  Very  strong  glutens  may  be  allowed  to  rise  a  third  time  before  putting 
in  the  pan. 

Dunlap  has  reported  that,  with  a  high  initial  hydrogen-ion  concentra- 
tion, or  induced  acidity,  produced  by  the  addition  of  acid  or  some  substance 
that  increases  the  acidity,  better  bread  is  secured  if  the  fermentation  periods 
are  reversed,  that  is  the  first  rising  period  is  short,  and  the  second  longer. 

If  the  dough  is  baked  before  fermentation  has  progressed  far  enough,  the 
resulting  bread  has  thick  cell  walls  and  is  decidedly  less  tender  than  bread 
fermented  sufficiently.  The  volume  is  also  smaller.  This  is  because  the 
gluten  with  the  proper  length  of  fermentation  becomes  more  dispersed  and 
tender.  If  fermentation  is  carried  too  far  the  gluten  becomes  too  soft 
to  retain  all  the  expanding  gas  bubbles  and  several  cells  coalesce,  which 
produces  thick  cell  walls  and  coarse  texture.  With  extreme  fermentation 
the  dough  smells  sour,  and  a  very  coarse,  heavy,  compact  bread  of  small 
volume  and  sour  taste  is  obtained. 

Prevention  of  crust  forination  during  fermentation.  Drying  of  the  crust 
may  be  partially  or  wholly  prevented  by  covering,  keeping  in  a  cabinet  with 
high  humidity,  or  greasing  the  crust. 

A  crust  formed  after  the  dough  is  panned  gives  a  dry  layer  on  top  that 
is  less  elastic.  Often  a  layer  of  compact  grained  cells  is  formed  just  below 
the  crust  because  of  the  drying  of  the  crust,  and  as  a  result  it  is  inelastic. 
The  drying  in  the  pan  may  be  prevented  in  the  same  way  as  during  rising, 
or  the  crust  may  be  moistened  with  water  occasionally. 

Size  of  pan.  The  volume  of  the  loaf  and  the  shape  of  cells  of  the  bread 
depend  upon  the  method  of  panning  and  the  relation  of  the  amount  of 
dough  to  the  size  of  the  pan. 

When  the  dough  is  placed  on  one  side  of  the  pan  so  that  it  has  to  turn 
over  in  rising  the  volume  is  reduced  and  the  loaf  is  likely  to  crack  in  the 
center  from  pressure.  The  dough  should  be  placed  in  the  middle  of  the 
pan  and  shaped  so  that  it  is  uniform.  Harrel  found  that,  with  conditions 
otherwise  standardized,  a  loaf  placed  slightly  to  the  side  of  the  pan  gave 
a  volume  of  2700  cc.  but  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  pan  gave  a  volume 
of  3230  cc. 

Lewis  and  Whitcomb  in  their  investigations  on  the  "Influence  of  Size 
and  Shape  of  Pan  on  Baking  Test"  concluded  that  the  purpose  for  which 
the  pan  is  intended  should  govern  its  shape  and  size.  An  experimental 
bake  is  a  test  of  the  strength  of  the  flour;  for  this  purpose  a  pan  should 
be  used  that  puts  a  more  severe  test  upon  the  flour.  Their  conclusions 
are  as  follows.  "The  shape  of  the  pan  exerts  a  marked  influence  upon  the 
size  and  quality  of  the  loaf  in  both  strong  and  weak  flours. 

"The  proof  period  varies  with  different  types  of  pans.  It  does  not  corre- 
spond closely  with  volume  or  height  of  loaf  or  quality  of  bread. 

"Deeper  pans  produce  taller  loaves,  but  not  the  larger  loaves. 


USE  OF  SOFT-WHEAT  FLOUR  IN  BREAD  MAKING  435 

"The  deep  type  of  pan  produces  a  smaller  loaf  of  somewhat  poorer 
quality  than  the  shallow  type.  Hence  a  flour  that  will  produce  a  good  loaf 
in  a  deep  pan  can  be  depended  upon  to  perform  well  in  the  bake  shop 
where  the  shallow  type  of  pan  is  used." 

The  committee  on  standard  formulas  and  procedure  of  A.A.C.C.  have 
suggested  a  pan  of  the  following  dimensions  for  a  pound  loaf  of  bread  for 
an  experimental  bake.  Top  7^  by  4^,  bottom  7  by  33^2,  height  3^/2 
inches. 

Temperature  and  time  of  baking.  The  1926-27  committee  on  baking, 
Blish,  chairman,  of  A.A.C.C.  have  recommended  baking  a  pound  loaf 
of  bread  for  35  minutes  at  a  temperature  of  220°C.  For  the  small  loaf 
made  with  100  grams  of  flour  they  recommend  25  minutes  at  220°C. 
Larger  loaves  of  bread  will  require  a  longer  baking  period  and  better  results 
will  be  obtained  with  a  lower  baking  temperature.  The  baking  temperature 
depends  somewhat  upon  the  volume  attained  during  rising.  If  the  volume 
is  great  enough  the  temperature  should  be  high ;  if  the  bread  is  not  proofed 
quite  enough  a  lower  temperature  will  allow  it  to  rise  more  in  the  oven. 

Flavor  of  bread.  Visser't  Hooft  and  de  Leeuw  have  reported  that 
excellent  flavor  in  bread  is  caused  by  two  factors.  One  factor  is  a  blend  of 
the  flavors  of  the  various  ingredients  of  the  bread  and  the  other  is  diacetyl, 
an  important  flavor  constituent  of  butter.  Acetylmethylcarbinol  is  formed 
in  the  dough  as  a  by-product  of  fermentation  of  sugar  by  yeast.  In  the 
finished  loaf  acetylmethylcarbinol  slowly  oxidizes  to  diacetyl.  But  the 
amount  of  acetylmethylcarbinol  formed  depends  upon  many  factors.  The 
following  are  reported  to  have  a  favorable  influence :  high  sugar-yeast  ratio, 
diastase  preparations,  low  fermentation  temperature,  short  fermentation 
time,  sponge-dough  method,  hydrogen  acceptors  or  oxidizing  agents,  oxygen, 
and  proper  yeast  selection. 

The  use  of  soft-wheat  flour  in  bread  making.  There  is  a  large 
production  of  soft-wheat  flour  in  some  sections  of  the  United  States.  Winter 
wheat,  by  which  is  meant  wheat  planted  in  the  fall,  is  often  called  soft 
wheat.  There  are  two  types  of  winter  wheat,  one  of  which  produces  a 
soft-wheat  flour  and  the  other  a  hard-wheat  flour.  The  type  produced 
depends  upon  the  place  grown  and  the  variety  of  wheat.  Soft  wheat  is  more 
generally  grown  in  the  southern  states  and  soft-wheat  flour  is  used  exten- 
sively in  the  South. 

Soft-wheat  flour  can  be  used  in  baking  bread,  but  the  manipulation  re- 
quired is  different  from  that  for  strong-wheat  flour.  The  gluten  in  soft- 
wheat  flour  is  less  colloidal,  more  dispersed,  than  in  strong-wheat  flour. 
Since  fermentation  produces  greater  dispersion  of  the  gluten,  which  gives 
greater  elasticity,  and  a  more  tender  gluten,  the  fermentation  period  is 
necessarily  shorter  for  soft-wheat  flour  than  for  strong-wheat  flour.  Better 
results  are  also  obtained  if  the  proportion  of  yeast  is  increased.  With  in- 
creased yeast  the  sugar  is  usually  increased,  as  it  furnishes  a  quick  food 


436  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

supply  for  the  yeast.  Soft-wheat  flours  do  not  have  so  high  a  hydration 
capacity  as  strong  wheat,  so  that  it  is  necessary  to  use  a  smaller  proportion 
of  liquid.  A  shallow  pan  gives  better  results  than  a  deep  one. 

Davis  and  Cline  have  reported  that  the  best  results  are  obtained  with  a 
short  fermentation  period.  They  state,  "The  best  results  were  obtained  by 
allowing  the  dough  to  double  its  volume  for  the  first  rising,  the  bread  is 
then  panned,  and  allowed  to  treble  its  volume  in  the  pan."  The  trebling 
of  the  volume  in  the  pan  "overcomes  the  close,  cake-like  texture  and  small 
volume." 

Liquid.  Davis  and  Cline  state  that  "To  a  certain  point  loaf  volume  and 
loaf  weight  increase  with  an  increase  in  the  proportion  of  liquid  used."  A 
more  open  porous  structure  is  obtained  with  increased  water ;  with  too 
high  a  percentage  of  water  the  texture  becomes  too  coarse.  With  the  flour 
used  by  Davis  and  Cline,  they  have  found  that  52  per  cent  of  water  gives 
the  best  loaf  and  texture.  This  proportion  of  water  gives  a  dough  so  soft 
that  it  is  necessary  to  handle  it  quickly  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  bread 
board  and  hands  during  the  kneading  and  molding. 

Yea;st,  The  quantity  of  yeast  used  for  soft-wheat  bread  is  increased  from 
2  to  3  times  the  amount  used  in  the  formula  for  strong-wheat  flour.  This 
requires  1^  to  2  cakes  of  yeast  for  a  pound  loaf  of  bread. 

Sugar.  Davis  and  Cline  state  that  increase  of  sugar  with  soft-wheat  flours 
gives  a  loaf  with  excellent  oven  spring,  with  a  silky,  spongy,  moist  texture, 
for  the  increased  sugar  seems  to  have  a  toughening  action  on  the  gluten. 
The  loaf  browns  better  in  the  oven  with  the  increased  sugar.  They  have 
decided  that  17  grams,  about  1^  tablespoons,  for  a  pound  loaf,  gives  the 
best  results.  A  larger  proportion  of  sugar,  25  to  35  grams  or  2  to  3  table- 
spoons, yields  a  loaf  of  larger  volume,  but  the  bread  is  too  sweet. 

Salt.  Salt  retards  fermentation  and  depresses  the  hydration  capacity  of 
gluten.  Davis  and  Cline  have  reported  that  5  grams  or  about  1  teaspoon 
for  a  pound  loaf  produces  the  best  results  for  soft  wheat.  Increasing  the 
quantity  increases  the  length  of  time  required  for  fermentation  and  gives 
a  more  compact,  tough  loaf. 

Shortening.  Two  teaspoons  per  pound  loaf  produced  good  results  but 
Davis  and  Cline  have  found  that  increasing  the  fat  to  1  or  1^^  tablespoons 
gives  an  increased  volume  and  sheen  but  also  requires  a  longer  fermen- 
tation. 

The  staling  o£  bread.  Aside  from  the  organoleptic  means  of  detect- 
ing staling,  several  methods  have  been  used  by  investigators.  Karacsonyi  has 
reported  the  use  of  the  viscosimeter  for  this  purpose.  Piatt  summarizes 
these  methods  and  reviews  the  literature  on  staling.  When  soaked  in  an 
excess  of  water  stale  bread  does  not  swell  to  the  extent  that  fresh  bread 
does.  When  viewed  with  the  microscope  the  starch  granules  in  stale  bread 
have  a  more  distinct  outline,  and  often  an  air  space  occurs  between  the 
starch   and   gluten.   The   water  extract   from   fresh   bread   contains   more 


THE  STALING  OF  BREAD  437 

soluble  starch  products  than  that  from  stale  bread.  Fresh  bread  is  more 
elastic  than  stale  bread,  hence  measuring  the  compressibility  is  also  a  means 
of  determining  the  degree  of  staling. 

Staling  includes  all  the  changes  taking  place  during  the  storage  of  bread, 
cake,  pastry,  etc.  These  changes  include  volatile  losses,  changes  that  may 
be  due  to  oxidation,  and  most  important,  changes  that  occur  within  the 
product,  which  Piatt  terms  "inherent  staling." 

The  volatile  losses  are  largely  composed  of  water,  but  include  small 
amounts  of  carbon  dioxide,  alcohol,  acetic  acid,  diacetyl,  and  other  sub- 
stances, all  of  which  give  the  distinctive  aroma  to  fresh  bread.  The  moisture 
loss  can  be  largely  prevented. 

Stale  crackers,  fruit  cake,  and  other  products  often  deteriorate  in  flavor 
because  of  the  oxidation  of  the  fats  they  contain. 

Even  if  moisture  loss  is  prevented  from  a  loaf  of  bread  certain  changes 
take  place  within  the  loaf  which  give  it  a  flinty  feel  and  a  crumbly  texture. 
Colloidal  systems  change  slowly  and  temperature  may  have  a  decided  effect 
on  the  change.  In  baking,  as  the  gelatinization  temperature  of  the  starch 
is  reached,  the  starch  swells,  absorbing  whatever  moisture  it  can  obtain; 
but  the  gluten  may  lose  moisture.  However,  as  the  bread  cools  part  of 
the  starch  is  precipitated  and  releases  moisture,  which  may  be  absorbed  by 
the  gluten  or  become  the  source  of  the  dampness  of  wrapped  cool  bread. 
The  staling  process  is  reversible,  i.e.,  the  stale  bread  when  heated  again 
to  a  high  temperature  acquires  the  characteristics  of  fresh  bread.  This 
reversal  can  be  repeated  several  times  or  until  the  bread  has  lost  too  large 
a  proportion  of  moisture.  Though  both  starch  and  protein  play  a  role  in 
staling,  more  work  has  been  done  in  studying  the  part  starch  plays  than 
that  of  the  protein. 

Not  all  the  starch  is  gelatinized  in  baking,  so  that  the  freshly  baked 
bread  is  not  entirely  transparent,  but  has  more  of  a  transparent  appearance 
than  stale  bread.  Bryant  has  reported  the  following  percentage  of  soluble 
extract  in  one  experiment:  for  dry  flour  after  mixing  9.32  per  cent,  after 
proofing  10.52  per  cent,  30  minutes  after  baking  13.82  per  cent,  6  hours 
after  baking  13.46  per  cent,  24  hours  after  baking  11.92  per  cent,  and 
70  hours  after  baking  10.41  per  cent.  He  adds  that  the  effect  of  fat  in 
bread  in  preventing  staleness  is  not  known,  but  that  salt  is  supposed  to 
tend  to  increase  the  staling  in  that  starch  changes  more  rapidly  to  insoluble 
starch  if  salt  is  present. 

Katz,  between  1912  and  1916,  made  extensive  investigations  concern- 
ing the  causes  of  bread  becoming  stale  and  means  of  preventing  staling.  He 
refers  to  staling  as  follows:  "I  concluded  that  staling  may  be  ascribed  to 
an  alteration  of  the  starch,  partly  gelatinized  by  the  baking  process,  whereby 
the  water-combining  powers  of  starch  are  impaired  or  diminished.  As  a 
result,  starch  and  the  gluten  skeleton  are  no  longer  in  equilibrium  with 
each  other,  the  gluten  taking  up  a  certain  quantity  of  water  yielded  by  the 


438  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

starch.  The  individual  starch  granules  shrink  somewhat  and  relax  their 
union  with  the  gluten  skeleton  which  binds  the  partly  gelatinized  starch 
granules  into  a  uniform  whole.  The  loosening  of  this  union  is  the  basic 
cause  of  bread  crumbling  when  the  latter  becomes  stale. 

"It  is  known  that  another  change  takes  place  in  the  bread  crumb  when 
staling,  namely,  a  hardening  of  the  crumb.  This  change  occurs  even  when 
loss  of  water  on  the  part  of  the  whole  bread  is  precluded,  which  of  the 
two  processes  will  predominate,  i.e.,  hardening  or  crumbling,  depends  on 
the  nature  of  the  bread." 

Katz  and  Vershaffelt  have  found  that  microscopic  studies  of  fresh  and 
stale  bread  show  differences  in  the  appearance  of  the  starch  granules.  "In 
the  stale  bread  the  starch  granules  are  more  sharply  contoured.  Upon  closer 
examination  it  was  found  that  they  were  doubly  contoured  and  that  be- 
tween the  two  contours  there  was  a  fine  air  bubble.  This  distinction  between 
fresh  and  stale  bread  can  be  detected  invariably  in  all  types  of  bread." 

Katz  has  also  reported  that  hardening  of  the  crumb  occurs  before  crum- 
bling. For  determining  hardness  of  the  crumb  a  special  type  of  tester  is 
used.  The  hardness  is  determined  from  the  number  of  millimeters  that  a 
disc  of  22.5-mm.  diameter  penetrated  into  the  bread  crumb,  when  loaded 
with  a  definite  weight  and  allowed  to  act  for  a  definite  time. 

If  the  bread  is  kept  at  a  temperature  of  60°C.  or  above,  and  if  moisture 
loss  and  condensation  of  water  are  prevented,  the  bread  stays  fresh  indefi- 
nitely. Thus  staling  is  brought  about  by  cooling  of  the  bread.  Katz  has 
reported  that  at  60°C.  or  above  freshness  of  the  bread  is  retained,  at 
about  40 °C.  it  becomes  approximately  half  stale,  at  30 °C.  it  becomes 
still  more  stale,  and  at  17°  to  0°C.  it  becomes  totally  stale.  But  although 
at  0°C.  bread  stales  quickly,  more  intense  cold  inhibits  staling.  Katz  recom- 
mends intense  cold,  — 8°C.  or  lower,  as  one  means  of  preventing  staling  of 
bread.  The  chief  objection  to  its  use  in  bakeries  is  the  cost. 

Storing  the  bread  from  40°  to  60°C.  inhibits  staling;  the  chief  objec- 
tion to  storing  bread  at  these  temperatures  is  that  bacterial  and  mold 
growth  may  be  favored. 

Whymper  states  that  "The  effect  of  freshness  can  be  enormously  in- 
creased and  sustained  for  many  days  by  the  addition  of  small  quantities 
of  fat  to  the  bread,"  and  that  the  effect  of  fat  on  staleness  is  out  of  all  pro- 
portion to  the  amount  used. 

Whymper  also  states  that  staleness  is  hindered  by  increasing  gluten  in 
bread,  or  at  least  the  addition  of  gluten  to  bread  delays  staleness.  Bread 
made  from  milk  stales  more  slowly  than  that  made  from  water.  Whymper 
suggests  that  fat  and  gluten  prevent  the  deposition  of  starch  in  much  the 
same  way  as  they  oppose  the  setting  of  cement. 

Ropy  bread.  So-called  rope  in  bread  or  ropy  bread  is  caused  by 
B.  mesentericus,  accidentally  introduced  into  the  bread  through  the  flour 
or  other  means.  The  spores  of  this  bacteria  are  not  destroyed  by  baking  the 


REFERENCES  439 

bread.  Two  or  three  days  after  baking,  and  particularly  during  hot  weather, 
the  center  of  the  loaf  acquires  a  peculiar  gummy,  sometimes  crumbly 
texture,  which  spreads  to  the  edges  of  the  loaf.  The  development  of  rope 
can  be  prevented  by  increasing  the  acidity  of  the  bread.  Thus  the  whey  of 
sour  milk  can  be  used  for  the  liquid  in  home  baking  or  vinegar  can  be 
added.  It  has  been  reported  that  only  about  1  per  cent  of  vinegar  is  re- 
quired. Other  suggestions  are  to  have  materials  and  flour  bins  scrupu- 
lously clean,  to  increase  the  amount  of  yeast,  thus  shortening  the  fermenta- 
tion period,  to  avoid  low  temperatures  during  fermentation,  and  to  cool 
the  baked  loaf  rapidly. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Alsberg,  C.  L.     Studies  upon  Starch.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  18:  190    (1926). 

Alsberg,  C.  L.     Starch  in  Flour.     Cereal  Chem.  4:  485    (1927). 

Alsberg,  C.  L.     The  Role  of  Starch  in  Bread  Making.     A  Comprehensive  Survey 

of  Starch  Chemistry.     Vol.  I,  p.  87.     Compiled  and  edited  by  Robert  P.  Wal- 
ton.    Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1928). 
Alsberg,  C.  L.     Starch  and  Flour  Quality.     Wheat  Studies  of  the  Food  Research 

Institute  11:  229   (1934-35). 
Alsberg,  C.  L.,  and  Griffing,  E.  P.     Effect  of  Fine  Grinding  upon  Flour.     Cereal 

Chem.  2:  325   (1925). 
Alsberg,   C.   L.,    and    Griffing,   E.   P.     The    Heat   Coagulation   of    Gluten.     Cereal 

Chem.  4:  41    (1927). 
Alsberg,  C.  L.,  and  Rash,  O.   S.     On  the   Gelatinization  by  Heat  of  Wheat   and 

Maize  Starch.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  107  (1924). 
Analysis   of   Flour.     Conn.   Agri.   Expt.    Sta.   Bull.   248,    p.   401    (1923). 
Bailey,    C.    H.     The    Chemistry    of    Wheat    Flour.     The    Chemical    Catalog    Co. 

(1925). 
Bailey,   C.   H.,   and   Johnston,   A.   H.     Carbon    Dioxide    Diffusion   Ratio    of   Wheat 

Flour  Doughs   as   a  Measure   of   Fermentation   Period.     Cereal   Chem.    1:   293 

(1924). 
Bailey,    C.    H.,    and   Le    Vesconte,    A.    M.     Physical    Tests    of    Flour    Quality    with 

the  Chopin  Extensimeter.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  38  (1924). 
Bailey,   C.  H.,   and   Sherwood,  R.  C.     The  March  of  Hydrogen-ion  Concentration 

in  Bread  Doughs.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  15:  624   (1923). 
Bailey,   C.    H.,    and   Weigley,    M.     Loss   of   Carbon    Dioxide    from    Doughs    as    an 

Index  of  Flour  Strength.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  14:  147    (1922). 
Bailey,    C.    H.,    and    Sherwood,   R.    C.     Biochemistry   of    Breadmaking.     Ind.    Eng. 

Chem.  27:  1426   (1935). 
Bailey,   L.   H.     Report   of   Committee   on   Testing  Rye   Flours.     Cereal    Chem.    11: 

409   (1934). 
Balls,   A.   K.,    and    Hale,    W.    S.     Proteolytic   Enzymes    of    Flours.     Cereal    Chem. 

13:  54  (1936). 
Blish,    M.   J.     Report   of   Committee   on   Standardization    of   Experimental    Baking 

Test.     1926-27.     Cereal  Chem.  4:  299   (1927). 
Blish,   M.  J.     The  Wheat   Flour   Proteins.     Presentation   of   the   Thomas    Osborne 

Medal   to   Morris   J.   Blish   by   the   Am.   Assoc,    of    Cereal    Chemists.     Supple- 
ment to  Cereal  Chem.  13:  No.  5    (1936). 
Blish,  M.  J.,  and  Sandstedt,  R.  M.     The  Nature  and  Identity  of  Wheat  Glutenin. 

J.  Biol.  Chem.  85:  195   (1929). 
Bryant,  J.  P.     Starch  and  Staleness.     The  Northwestern  Miller   147:  747    (1926). 


440  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

Bungenberg   de   Jong,    H.    L.      Gluten    Formation.      J.    Soc.    Chem.    Ind.    52:    391T 

(1933). 
Butcher,    C.    H.     The    Microscopy    of    Food    Products.     4.     Starches    and    Their 

Characteristics.     Food  4:  341    (1934). 
Cohn,   E.   J.,   and    Henderson,   L.   J.     The   Physical    Chemistry   of    Bread    Making. 

Science  48:  501   (1918). 
Coleman,    D.    A.,    and    Fellows,    H.    C.     Hygroscopic    Moisture    of    Cereal    Grains 

and     Flaxseed    Exposed     to    Atmospheres     of     Different    Relative     Humidity. 

Cereal  Chem.  2:  275   (1925). 
Collatz,  F.  A.,  and  Racke,  O.  C.     Effects  of  Diastase  and  Malt  Extract  in  Doughs. 

Cereal  Chem.  2:  213   (1925). 
Davis,  E.  M.,  and  Cline,  J.  A.     Making  Light  Bread   from  Missouri   Soft  Wheat 

Flour.     Cereal  Chem.  3:  411    (1926). 
Dunlap,    F.    L.     The   Problem    of   Test    Bakes,    with    a    Discussion    of    Certain    of 

Their  Chemical  and  Physical  Aspects.     Cereal  Chem.   3:  201    (1926). 
Fitz,  L.  A.     Formulas  and  Method  of  Procedure  for  Experimental   Baking  Tests. 

Cereal  Chem.  1:  251    (1924). 
Fitz,  L.  A.     Report  of  Committee  on  Standard  Formula  and  Method  of  Procedure 

for  Experimental  Tests.     A.A.C.C.  Cereal  Chem.  2:  232   (1935). 
Frank,    W.    L.     Short    Weights    of    Flour    and    Feed.     J.    Am.    Assoc,    of    Cereal 

Chemists.  8:  19  (1923). 
Fuller,   C.  H.   F.   Microorganisms  in  Breadmaking.     J.   Soc.   Chem.   Ind.    55:   93T 

(1936). 
Gericke,    W.    F.     Effect    of    Nitrate    Salts    Supplied    to    Wheat    Grown    in    Liquid 

Media  on  Bread  Scores.     H.     Cereal  Chem.  11:  141   (1934). 
Gericke,   W.    F.     Effect   of   Chloride    Salts    Supplied    to   Wheat    Grown    in    Liquid 

Media  on  Bread  Scores.     HL     Cereal  Chem.  11:  335   (1934). 
Gortner,    R.    A.     Viscosity    as     a    Measure    of    Gluten     Quality.     Cereal     Chem. 

1:   75    (1924). 
Gortner,  R.  A.,  and  Doherty,  E.  H.     Hydration  Capacity  of  Gluten  from  "Strong" 

and  "Weak"  Flours.     J.  Agri.  Research.  13:  389    (1918). 
Gortner,  R.  A.,  Hoffman,  W.  F.,  and  Sinclair,  W.  B.     The  Peptization  of  Wheat 

Flour  Proteins  by  Inorganic  Salt  Solutions.     Cereal  Chem.  6:  1    (1929). 
Gortner,    R.    A.,    and    Sharp,    P.    F.     The    Physico-chemical    Properties    of    Strong 

and  Weak  Flours.     III.     Viscosity  as   a  Measure  of  Hydration   Capacity  and 

the   Relation    of   the    Hydrogen-ion    Concentration    to    Imbibition    in    Different 

Acids.     J.  Phys.   Chem.  27:  481    (1923)    IV.     The   Influence   of  Ash   of   Flour 

in  Water  Suspensions.     J.  Phys.  Chem.  27:  567    (1923). 
Grewe,  E.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     Relation  of  Hydrogen-ion  Concentration  of  Dough 

to  Baking  Properties.     Cereal   Chem.  4:  261    (1927). 
Harrell,    C.    G.     Some    Variable    Factors    in    Bread    Production.     Cereal    Chem. 

3:  1    (1926). 
Harrell,  C.  G.     A  Gravimetric  Pentrometer  for  Measuring  Stiffness  or  Toughness 

of  Doughs.     Cereal  Chem.  4:  283    (1927). 
Harrell,    C.    G.,    and   Benson,   R.    C.      Flour   Milling   Is    not   Merely    Grinding   but 

Selective  Grinding.     Food.  Ind.  5:  450  (1933). 
Jago,  Wm.,  and  Jago,  C.     The  Technology  of  Bread-Making.     Simkin,   Marshall, 

Hamilton,  Jent  &  Co.,  London  (Out  of  print)  ;  Bakers  Helper  Co.  U.  S.   (1921). 
Johnson,    A.    H.     Identification    and    Estimation    of    the    Organic    Acids    Produced 

during  Bread  Dough  and  Cracker  Dough  Fermentation.     Cereal  Chem.  2:  345 

(1925). 
Johnson,  A.  H.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     A  Physico-Chemical   Study  of  Cracker  Dough 

Fermentation.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  327   (1924). 
Johnson,  A.  H.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     Gluten  of  Flour  and  Gas  Retention  of  Wheat 

Flour  Doughs.     Cereal  Chem.  2:  95  (1925). 


REFERENCES  441 

J0rgensen,  H.     On  the  Existence  of  Powerful  but  Latent  Proteolytic  Enzymes  in 

Wheat  Flour.     Cereal  Chem.  13:  346    (1936). 
Karacsonyi,  L.  P.     A  Quick  Viscometric  Method  for  Measuring  the   Staleness  of 

Bread.     Cereal  Chem.  6:  241   (1929). 
Katz,  J.  R.     Gelatinization  and  Retrogradation  of  Starch  in  Relation  to  the  Prob- 
lem of  Bread  Staling.     A  Comprehensive  Survey  of  Starch  Chemistry.     Vol.  I. 

p.  100.     Compiled  and  Edited  by  Robert  P.  Walton.     The  Chemical  Catalog 

Co.   (1928). 
Kent-Jones,    D.   W.     Modern   Cereal   Chemistry.     The   Northern   Publishing   Co., 

Liverpool    (1924). 
Kozrain,    N.    P.     The   Aging   of   Wheat   Flour    and    the    Nature    of   this   Process. 

Cereal  Chem.  12:  165    (1935). 
Kress,  C.  B.     Gluten  Quality.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  247   (1924). 
Kuhlmann,  A.  G.,  and  Glossowa,  O.  N.     Bound  Water  in  Breadmaking.     Cereal 

Chem.  13:  202   (1936). 
Lewis,  J.  P.,  and  Whitcomb,  W.  O.     Influence  of  Size  and  Shape  of  Pan  on  Baking 

Test.     Cereal  Chem.  5:  146   (1928). 
Mangels,   C.   E.     Effect  of   Storage   on   Baking   Quality   of   Common    and    Durum 

Wheat.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  168    (1924). 
Mangels,    C.    E.,    and    Bailey,    C.    H.     Relation    of    Concentration    to    Action    of 

Gelatinizing  Agents  on  Starch.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.   55:  1981    (1933). 
Mangels,  C.  E.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     Relative  Viscosities  of  Wheat  Starches.     Ind. 

Eng.  Chem.  25:  456    (1933). 
Markley,   M.   C,   and   Bailey,   C.   H.     Factors  AflFecting  the   Diastatic  Activity  of 

Wheat  Flour.     Cereal  Chem.  11:  515   (1934). 
Markley,  M.  C,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     The  Nature  of  the  Pigments  of  the  Gasoline 

Extract  of  Wheat.     Cereal  Chem.  12:  33    (1935). 
Markley,    M.    C,    and    Bailey,    C.    H.     The    Pigments    of    the    Dilute    Alcohol    or 

Acetone  Extract  of  Whole  Wheat  Meal.     Cereal  Chem.  12:  40   (1935). 
McCalla,  A.  G.,   and  Rose,  R.  C.     Fractionation  of   Gluten   Dispersed  in  Sodium 

Salicylate  Solution.     Can.  J.  Research  12:  346    (1935). 
Micha,  J.     Practical  Observations  on  Bread   and  Cracker  Flours.     Cereal   Chem. 

11:  110    (1934). 
Mohs,  K.     The  Sizes  of  Pores  in  Baked  Bread.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  149   (1924). 
Olsen,  A.  G.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     A  Study  of  the  Proteases  of  Bread  Yeast.     Cereal 

Chem.  2:  68   (1925). 
Osborne,    T.    B.     The    Proteins    of    the    Wheat   Kernel.     Carnegie    Institution    of 

Washington.     Pub.  84  (1907). 
Piatt,  W.     Staling  of  Bread.     Cereal  Chem.  7:  1  (1930). 
Rahn,  O.     Stable  Bran  Flour.     Food  Ind.  7:  171   (1935). 
Rask,  W.  S.,  and  Alsberg,  C.  L.     A  Viscometric  Study  of  Wheat  Starches.     Cereal 

Chem.  1:  7  (1924). 
Rich,  C.  E.     Some  Physico-Chemical  Properties  of  Wheat  Flour  Proteins.     Cereal 

Chem.  13:  522  (1936). 
Richardson,  W.  A.,  Higginbotham,  R.  S.,  and  Farrow,  F.  D.     II.     The  Reducing 

Power   and   Average   Molecular   Chain-Length   of  Starch   and   Its   Hydrolysis 

Products,    and    the    Constitution    of    Their    Aqueous    Pastes.     J.    Textile    Inst. 

27:  131T  (1936). 
Samec,  M.     The   Colloid-Chemical  Properties  of  Starch   in  Relation  to   Chemical 

Constituents.     A  Comprehensive  Survey  of  Starch  Chemistry.     Vol.  I,   p.   51. 

Compiled  and  edited  by  R.  P.  Walton  (1928). 
Samec,  M.     Some  Technically  Important  Properties  of  Starch  in  Connexion  with 

Its  Constitution.     J.  Soc.  Chem.  Ind.  52:  389T   (1933). 
Samec,  M.     Soluble  Amylo-Phosphoric  Acids  and  the  Nature  of  the  Paste  Form- 
ing Starch  Fractions.     Cereal  Chem.  13:  592    (1936). 


442  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

Samuel,  J.  O.     Some  Aspects  of  Flocculation.     J.  Soc.  Chem.  Ind.  55:  669    (1936). 

Scott,  J.     Identification  of  Starches.     Food  2:  125,   157,   197    (1932-33). 

Sharp,   P.   F.     Wheat   Flour   Studies.     II.     Aging.     The    Change   of    Hydrogen-ion 

Concentration  of  Wheat  and   Mill   Products  with   Age.     Cereal   Chem.    1:   117 

(1924). 
Sharp,  P.  F.,  and  Gortner,  R.  A.     The  Physico-Chemical  Properties  of  Strong  and 

Weak  Flours.     VIII.     Effect  of  Yeast  Fermentation  on  Imbibitional  Properties 

of  Glutenin.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  29   (1924). 
Sharp,  P.  F.,  and  Gortner,  R.  A.     Viscosity  as  a  Measure  of  Hydration  Capacity 

of   Wheat    Flour    and    Its   Relation    to    Baking    Strength.     U.    of    Minn.    Agri. 

Expt.  Sta.,  Technical  Bull.  19    (1923). 
Sharp,  P.  F.,  and  Gortner,  R.  A.,  and  Johnson,  A.   G.     VII.     The   Physical   State 

of    the    Gluten    as    Influencing    the    Loaf    Volume.     J.    Phys.    Chem.    27:    942 

(1923). 
Sharp,  P.  F.,  and  Schreiner,  O.  M.     Wheat  Flour  Studies.     VII.     Effect  of  Yeast 

Fermentation  on  the  Proteins  of  Flour.     Cereal  Chem.  3:  90    (1926). 
Sherwood,  H.  E.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     Control  of  Diastatic  Activity  in  Wheat  Flour. 

II.     Experiments   with   Flour   Milled   on    a    Commercial    Scale.     Cereal    Chem. 

3:  107   (1926). 
Sjostrom,    O.    A.      Microscopy    of    Starches    and    Their    Modifications.      Ind.    Eng. 

Chem.  28:  63   (1936). 
Snyder,  H.     Studies  on  Bread  and  Bread  Making.     U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.,  Office  Expt. 

Sta.     Bull.  101    (1901). 
Sorensen,  S.  P.  L.     Hydrogen  Ion  Concentration  in  Bread-Making.     Am.  Food  J. 

19:  556   (1924). 
Sullivan,  B.,  and  Near,  C.     Chemical  Constituents  Which  Influence  Gluten  Quality. 

Ind.  Eng.  Chem.   1:  159    (1927). 
Sullivan,    B.     The    Inorganic    Constituents    of    Wheat    and    Flour.     Cereal    Chem. 

10:  503    (1933). 
Sullivan,    B.,    Near,    C,    and    Foley,    G.    H.     The   Role    of   Lipoids    in   Relation   to 

Flour  Quality.     Cereal  Chem.  13:  318    (1936). 
Swanson,    C.    O.     Factors    Which    Influence    the    Quantity    of    Protein    in    Wheat. 

Cereal  Chem.  1:  279   (1924). 
Swanson,    C.    O.     The   Theory   of    Colloidal    Behavior    in    Dough.     Cereal    Chem. 

2:  265   (1925). 
Swanson,  C.  O.,  and  Working,  E.  B.     Mechanical  Modification  of  Dough  to  Make 

It  Possible  to   Bake   Bread   with   Only  the   Fermentation    in   the    Pan.     Cereal 

Chem.  3:  65   (1926). 
Tague,  E.  L.     The   Solubility  of   Gliadin.     Cereal   Chem.   2:   117    (1925). 
Tague,  E.  L.     The    Gluten    Quality   of    Flour    and    Its    Iso-electric    Point.     Cereal 

Chem.  2:  202  (1925). 
Taylor,  T.  C.     Non-carbohydrate  Constituents  as  a  Factor  in  the  Characterization 

of  Starch  Components.     A  Comprehensive  Survey  of  Starch  Chemistry.     Vol.  I, 

p.  62.     Compiled  and  edited  by  R.  P.  Walton    (1928). 
Upson,   F.  W.,   and   Calvin,  J.  W.     On   Colloidal   Swelling  of   Wheat   Gluten.     J. 

Am.  Chem.  Soc.  37:  1295   (1915). 
Visser't   Hooft,    F.,    and    de    Leeuw,    F.    J.    G.     The    Occurrence    of    Acetylmethyl- 

carbinol  in  Bread   and  Its  Relation  to  Bread   Flavor.     Cereal   Chem.    12:  213 
(1935). 
Walton,    R.    P.     A    Comprehensive    Survey    of    Starch    Chemistry.     Compiled    and 

edited  by  Walton,  R.  P.     Chemical  Catalog  Co.    (1928). 
Washburn,     Crosby    Company.     Home     Service     Department.     Pamphlet.     Baking 

Better  Bread. 


BREAD  443 

Weaver,  H.  A.,  and  Goldtrap,  W.  A.  Flour  Strength.  J.  Am.  Assoc.  Cereal 
Chemists  7:  115  (1922). 

Woodruff,  S.,  and  Nicoli,  L.     Starch  Gels.     Cereal  Chem.  8 :  243    (1931). 

Woodruff,  S.,  and  Webber,  L.  R.  A  Photomicrographic  Study  of  Gelatinized 
Wheat  Starch.     J.  Agri.  Research   46:   1099    (1933). 

Working,  E.  B.  Lipoids,  a  Factor  Influencing  Gluten  Quality.  Cereal  Chem.  1: 
153   (1924). 

Working,  E.  B.  Some  Oxidizing  Effects  of  Flour  Bleaching.  Cereal  Chem. 
5:  431   (1928). 

Whymper,  R.  Colloid  Problems  in  Bread  Baking.  Third  Report  on  Colloid  Chem- 
istry.   British  Assoc,  for  the  Advancement  of  Science,     p.  61   (1920). 

BREAD 

Experiment  71. 

To  see  if  gluten  can  be  washed  from  a  batter. 

To  Yi.  cup  of  flour  add  slowly  while  mixing  3^  cup  of  water.  Mix  until 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps;  then  beat  for  1  minute.  Let  stand  10  minutes. 
Place  in  a  fine  sieve.  Wash  in  a  stream  of  water  and  try  to  collect  the  gluten. 
What  happens? 

Experiment  72. 

A.  To  wash  gluten  from  a  dough. 

\.  To  Yz  cup  of  bread  flour  (56  grams)  add  1/6  cup  of  water  (40  cc). 
Stir  40  times;  then  knead  80  times.  Let  stand  10  minutes.  Wash  under  a 
stream  of  water  to  free  the  gluten  of  starch.  Wash  until  the  water  is  clear. 
The  product  obtained  is  gluten.  What  is  its  weight?  What  are  its  character- 
istics? If  desired  the  gluten  balls  may  be  baked  and  their  comparative  baked 
volumes  obtained.  Bake  at  200°  to  210°C.  (390°  to  410°F.). 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  pastry  flour.  Compare  the  resulting  gluten  and  its 
quantity  with  that  from  bread  flour.  Bake. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  substituting  milk  for  the  water  and  adding 
baking  powders  to  the  flour. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  but  substitute  milk  for  the  water. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  substitute  sour  milk  for  the  water. 

3.  Repeat  Al,  but  sift  Yi  teaspoon  of  tartrate  baking  powder  with  the  flour 
before  adding  the  water. 

4.  Repeat  B3,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

5.  Repeat  B3,  but  use  sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder. 

6.  Add  different  proportions  of  sugar  to  the  flour  and  try  to  wash  out  the 
gluten.  The  amount  of  sugar  added  can  be  based  on  the  proportion  of  sugar 
to  flour  used  in  muffins  and  different  cake  recipes. 

Bread 

Experiment  73. 

To  determine  the  best  proportion  of  water  to  use  with  the  kind  or  grade  of 
flour  that  Is  to  be  used  In  making  bread. 


444 


FLOUR  AND  BREAD 


Brand  of  flour  used: 

Recipe: 


Ingredients 

Approximate 
measure 

Large  dough  or 

large  loaf, 

grams 

Small  dough  or 

small  loaf, 

grams 

Flour 

Zyi  cups 
^  cake 
^  tablespoon 
\}i  teaspoons 
y2  tablespoon 

350.0 
10.5 
10.5 

5.25 
6.5 

100.0 

Yeast 

Sugar 

Salt 

3.0 
3.0 
1.0 

Fat 

0.0 

Fermentation 

First  punch 

Second  punch 

Pan 

Proof 

Bake 


105  minutes  (28-30°C.) 
50  minutes 

25  minutes  after  second  punch 
55  minutes 
35  minutes  (220°C.) 


Use  the  large  or  small  dough  for  baking.  The  fermentation  time  for  the 
large  dough  or  large  loaf  is  265  minutes  or  nearly  4}^  hours.  That  for  the 
small  dough  or  small  loaf  is  290  minutes  or  nearly  5  hours.  If  a  shorter 
fermentation  period  is  desired  increase  the  amount  of  yeast  used  as  suggested 
in  Table  47  and  decrease  the  fermentation  time  for  punches  and  panning 
accordingly. 

Determine  the  temperature  of  the  water  necessary  to  bring  the  dough  to 
28°C.  This  may  be  done  for  the  first  trial  by  taking  the  temperature  of  the 
room  plus  the  temperature  of  the  flour  and  substracting  from  84.  The  result 
will  be  the  temperature  of  water  to  use,  to  bring  the  dough  out  at  28°C. 
This  will  not  always  bring  the  temperature  of  the  dough  out  at  28°C.,  espe- 
cially if  the  temperature  of  the  room  is  rather  low  and  mixing  is  continued 
for  some  time.  To  find  the  temperature  of  the  water  to  bring  the  dough  out 
at  30°C.,  subtract  the  temperature  of  the  room  plus  the  temperature  of  the 
flour  from  90. 

Sift  the  flour.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and  salt  in  a  portion  of  the  water  and 
mix  the  yeast  in  another  part.  Add  water  and  melted  fat  to  the  flour  and  mix 
to  a  smooth  dough.  If  a  bread  mixer  is  used,  mix  until  the  dough  is  smooth. 
Keep  a  record  of  the  time  and  mix  other  batches  of  dough  for  the  same 
length  of  time.  If  mixed  with  a  spoon  mix  until  a  dough  is  formed,  then 
knead  on  a  flat  surface  until  smooth.  The  length  of  time  for  kneading  depends 
upon  the  vigor  and  rapidity  of  kneading.  It  is  better  to  work  out  a  definite 
method  of  kneading  and  count  the  punches  used.  Otherwise  the  amount  of 
kneading  will  produce  variations  and  it  will  then  be  difficult  to  determine 
variations    due    to    other    causes.    Try   300   punches,    unless    it    is    found    that, 


BREAD 


445 


owing  to  method  of  kneading  or  other  factors,  more  or  less  kneading  gives 
better  results. 

For  fermentation  place  in  a  container  of  suitable  size  and  cover.  To  obtain 
a  constant  temperature  in  a  cooking  laboratory  the  dough  may  be  placed  in  a 
covered  bowl  or  pan  and  set  in  a  dishpan  of  water,  the  water  being  at  the 
desired  temperature  for  fermentation.  Add  hot  water  as  needed  to  keep  the 
temperature  constant.  The  dishpan  should  be  covered  to  avoid  drafts  over 
the  top  of  the  bread. 

An  empty  refrigerator  makes  an  ideal  proofing  cabinet,  as  it  is  easy  to  reg- 
ulate the  temperature  by  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  bottom,  and  it  is  moist  so 
that  there  is  no  tendency  for  the  crust  to  dry.  A  china  closet,  a  box,  or  an 
oven  can  also  be  used. 

Leave  the  dough  in  the  container  for  the  punches  and  punch  just  sufficiently 
to  bring  the  dough  to  the  original  volume.  Count  the  strokes  used  for  punch- 
ing and  use  the  same  for  all  the  doughs  and  the  same  method  of  making 
strokes.  For  panning,  turn  out  on  a  smooth  surface  and  knead  or  fold  gently 
into  the  desired  shape.  Use  no  flour  to  mold  as  this  flour  will  not  be  fermented 
for  the  same  length  of  time  as  that  in  the  dough  and  may  leave  streaks  in  the 
bread. 

Prevent  a  crust  from  forming  while  rising  and  while  in  the  pan.  If  neces- 
sary, moisten  the  top  occasionally  with  water. 

1.  Use  55  per  cent  of  water  or  192.5  cc. 

2.  Use  57.5  per  cent  of  water  or  201.2  cc. 

3.  Use  60  per  cent  of  water  or  210  cc. 

4.  Use  62.5  per  cent  of  water  or  218.7  cc. 

5.  Use  65.0  per  cent  of  water  or  227.5  cc. 

If  preferred  a  score  card  may  be  used  instead  of  the  following  headings  for 
keeping  a  record  of  results  of  the  bread  experiments.  Write  a  summary  of 
conclusions  of  experiments  giving  applications  to  cooking. 


Volume 

Crust 
appearance 

Color 

Smoothness 

Break  and  shred 

Thickness 

Crumb, 
color 

Size  of 
cells 

Thinness  of 
cell  walls 

Elasticity 
or  spring 

Tenderness 

Odor 

Flavor 

Results  and  conclusions. 


Experiment  74. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  manipulation  of  the  dough  upon  the  volume,  the 
texture,  and  the  tenderness  of  bread. 

A.  The  extent  of  mixing  and  the  pressure  used  m  kneading. 


446  FLOUR  AND  BREAD 

1.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best  under  Experiment  73.  If  this  has 
not  been  determined,  try  60  per  cent.  Follow  directions  for  mixing  given 
under  Experiment  73.  Mix  3  times  the  recipe  used.  Knead  as  in  Experiment 
73,  using  400  punches.  Weigh  the  dough  and  divide  into  3  portions.  Put  part 
one  in  the  proofing  cabinet  to  rise.  Use  the  remainder  of  the  dough  for  2  and  3. 

2.  Continue  kneading  one  part  of  the  dough  from  74,1,  for  15  to  20  minutes 
or  use  1000  punches.  For  the  rest  of  the  operations  duplicate  the  procedure 
under  1. 

3.  Put  the  third  portion  of  the  dough  from  74,1,  to  rise.  When  punching 
after  the  first  fermentation  period  use  more  strokes  for  punching  and  more 
pressure.  Knead  hard  just  before  molding  the  loaf  to  put  in  the  baking  pan. 

B.  Method  of  molding. 

Repeat  Al,  using  the  regular  recipe.  When  molding  the  dough  for  the 
baking  pan  pat  gently  into  a  long  narrow  strip  that  can  be' rolled  for  the  loaf. 
Roll  around  about  2  times  and  shape  and  place  in  pan. 

Compare  the  appearance,  volume,  texture,  and  tenderness  of  the  loaves  of 
bread.  Compare  the  shape  and  direction  of  cells  in  the  baked  loaves.  Does  roll- 
ing compress  a  part  of  the  dough  so  that  some  cells  are  more  compressed  than 
others? 

Experiment  75. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  fermentation  on  the  volume,  the  texture,  and  the 
tenderness  of  bread. 

Mix  2  times  the  recipe  used.  Follow  directions  given  under  Experiment 
73,  using  the  proportion  of  water  that  gave  the  best  loaf.  If  this  has  not  been 
determined  use  60  per  cent.  After  kneading,  weigh  and  then  divide  into  2 
parts.  Mold  and  shape  one  loaf  and  place  directly  in  the  baking  pan.  Let  rise 
to  the  desired  height  and  then  bake.  The  second  half  of  the  dough  should 
be  fermented  and  punched  in  the  regular  way  before  molding  and  baking.  Com- 
pare the  two  loaves  for  volume,  appearance,  color  of  crumb,  texture,  and 
tenderness. 

Experiment  76. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  changing  the  proportion  of  ingredients. 
Mix  in  the  usual  wav,  ferment,  and  bake  the  usual  time. 

A.  Salt. 

1.  Repeat  Experiment  73,  using  the  best  proportion  of  water  for  a  control 
loaf. 

2.  Increase  the  salt  to  8  grams. 

3.  Decrease  the  salt  to  2.6  grams. 

B.  Sugar. 

1.  Double  the  sugar  in  the  recipe.  Use  Al  for  a  control. 

2.  Omit  the  sugar  in  the  recipe. 

C.  Fat. 

1.  Double  the  fat  in  the  recipe.  Use  Al  for  a  control. 

2.  Treble  the  fat  in  the  recipe. 

Compare  the  effect  on  volume,  appearance,  texture,  and  tenderness  of  bread 
of  changing  the  proportion  of  ingredients. 


CHAPTER  Xll 

BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Leavening  Agents 

A  leavening  agent  is  a  substance  that  forms  bubbles  of  gas  in  a  batter  or 
dough,  thus  leavening  it  or  making  it  porous.  During  the  baking  the  ex- 
pansion of  the  gas  produced  stretches  the  batter ;  then  the  heat  coagulation 
of  the  protein  of  the  flour  or  of  the  flour  and  eggs  sets  the  dough  structure. 

Yeast  produces  carbon  dioxide  gas  in  doughs,  but  with  yeast  a  period  of 
time  is  necessary  for  enough  gas  to  be  produced  to  leaven  the  dough  suf- 
ficiently before  the  product  can  be  baked. 

Steam.  One  of  the  simplest  ways  of  leavening  is  by  steam.  One  volume 
of  water  forms  more  than  1600  volumes  of  water  vapor,  so  that  steam 
may  have  considerable  leavening  ability.  Steam  is  most  effective  as  a  leaven- 
ing agent  in  thin  batters  in  which  the  proportion  of  water  is  large,  such  as 
popovers  and  cream  puffs.  Medium  batters,  of  which  griddle  cakes  and 
muffins  are  examples,  are  partially  leavened  by  steam  and  partially  by  the 
gas  produced  from  the  added  baking  powder.  Steam  does  not  aid  to  such 
a  great  extent  in  leavening  the  batters  and  doughs  containing  little  water 
both  because  of  the  small  proportion  of  water  used  and  because  of  the  large 
amount  held  by  the  starch  and  protein. 

Soda.  Sodium  bicarbonate  or  soda  may  be  used  for  a  leavening  agent. 
When  heated  it  gives  off  gas  as  follows : 

2  NaHCOs  +  Heat  >  Na2C03  +  H2O  +  CO2 

sodium  sodium  water  carbon 

bicarbonate  carbonate  dioxide 

The  residue,  sodium  carbonate,  gives  a  disagreeable  taste  and  produces  a 
yellow  color  in  the  baked  product.  For  this  reason  some  substance  is  used 
with  soda  that  combines  with  it  to  give  an  end  product  that  does  not  affect 
the  flavor  or  color  of  the  food  so  decidedly  as  does  sodium  carbonate. 

Hydrochloric  acid.  The  following  reaction  is  typical  of  baking 
powder  reactions  in  that  an  acid  substance  is  combined  with  the  soda  to 
produce  the  gas.  According  to  Hart,  the  first  patent  for  a  baking  powder, 
taken  by  Dr.  Whiting  in  1837  in  England,  was  for  the  formula  given 
below.  In  the  baking  powders  of  today  an  acid  salt,  in  powder  form, 
replaces  the  acid  of  this  formula. 

HCl     -f     NaHCOa     >     H2O     +     CO2     +     NaCl 

hydrochloric  sodium  water  carbon  sodium 

acid  bicarbonate  dioxide  chloride 

447 


448  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Baking  ammonia.  Baking  ammonia  has  been  used  for  years  in  baked 
products  and  is  still  used  in  many  bakeries  for  some  goods.  Baking  am- 
monia is  ammonium  bicarbonate;  when  heated  it  breaks  up  to  form  am- 
monia, water,  and  carbon  dioxide.  Since  two  gases  are  produced  it  is  a 
very  efficient  leavening  agent.  The  chief  objection  to  its  use  is  that,  unless 

NH4HCO3     +     heat     >     NH3     +     H2O     +     CO2 

ammonium  ammonia  water  carbon 

bicarbonate  dioxide 

all  the  ammonium  bicarbonate  is  broken  up  and  all  the  ammonia  gas 
driven  off,  the  taste  and  smell  of  ammonia  remain  in  the  baked  product. 
For  this  reason  it  is  used  in  baked  products  like  cookies  and  cream  puffs, 
that  are  small  and  thin  or  have  thin  walls. 

The  author  was  interested  in  looking  over  several  hundred  cooky  recipes 
sent  in  from  all  over  the  United  States  for  a  magazine  cooking  contest  in 
1927.  The  surprising  thing  about  them  was  the  length  of  time  some  of  the 
recipes  must  have  been  used  by,  or  handed  down  to,  a  family,  for  great 
numbers  of  them  called  for  leavening  agents  in  common  use  years  ago. 
There  were  many  that  called  for  baking  ammonia,  frequently  with  no 
definite  proportions,  for  the  recipe  would  state  to  use  three  or  five  cents 
worth  of  ammonia. 

Baking  ammonia  is  in  rather  coarse  crystals  as  it  is  obtained  at  the 
drug  store,  and  therefore  produces  better  results  if  dissolved  in  the  liquid 
before  it  is  added  to  the  dough. 

Sour  milk.  The  use  of  sour  milk  and  soda  to  produce  carbon  dioxide 
gas  in  baked  products  antedates  the  use  of  baking  powder.  As  the  acidity 
of  the  milk  varies  with  Its  age  and  degree  of  sourness,  the  amount  of  soda 
needed  to  neutralize  the  acidity  will  vary.  Some  recipes  call  for  more 
soda  than  is  needed  to  neutralize  the  acid  of  the  milk,  thus  an  excess  is 
left  that  forms  sodium  carbonate  with  its  resulting  bad  after-taste  and 
yellow  color.  This  is  probably  the  reason  that  many  present-day  house- 
keepers do  not  like  to  use  It.  Then  some  cooks  do  not  learn  to  vary  the 
proportion  of  soda  to  use  with  the  milk. 

Slightly  sour  or  "bllnky"  milk  will  combine  with  very  little  soda,  but 
very  sour  milk  will  require  a  larger  quantity.  An  average  amount  for 
ordinary  sour  milk  is  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  per  cup  of  sour  milk.  This  pro- 
duces gas  equivalent  to  the  amount  produced  by  about  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  As  this  does  not  always  produce  as  porous  a  texture  as 
is  desired,  some  baking  powder  may  also  be  added.  It  is  preferable  from  the 
color  and  the  flavor  obtained  in  baked  and  steamed  batters  to  use  too  little 
soda  to  neutralize  the  acid  in  the  milk,  rather  than  an  excess.  In  fact,  sour 
milk  can  be  used  In  muffins,  biscuits,  and  cakes  with  baking  powder  and 
no  soda,  with  far  less  perceptible  taste  than  when  excess  soda  Is  used. 

Many  recipes  state  in  the  directions  to  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  small 
amount  of  water.  This  seems  to  hold  over  from  the  days  when  soda  like 


CREAM  OF  TARTAR  449 

the  baking  ammonia  was  coarse  and  not  finely  powdered,  and  the  solution 
in  water  prevented  the  formation  of  brown  spots.  This  is  a  good  method 
if  the  soda  is  added  directly  to  the  batter,  for  it  tends  to  lump  in  the 
package.  But  finely  powdered  soda  such  as  is  used  at  the  present  time  may 
be  sifted  with  the  flour,  though  it  is  true  that  different  brands  may  differ 
in  fineness  of  division. 

Some  recipes  state  to  mix  the  soda  with  the  sour  milk  or  molasses  before 
combining  with  the  other  ingredients.  This  is  not  a  good  practise  since  gas 
begins  to  evolve  as  soon  as  the  two  are  mixed  and  thus  a  large  portion  of 
the  gas  is  useless  as  a  leavening  agent. 

Molasses.  Daniels  and  Heisig  have  reported  the  acidity  of  molasses, 
honey,  and  corn  sirup.  Cooking  molasses  and  sorghum,  like  sour  milk,  vary 
in  acidity,  so  that  the  amount  of  soda  required  to  neutralize  the  acid  varies. 
Some  require  Yi  teaspoon  of  soda  per  cup,  others  ^,  and  some  1  teaspoon. 
An  average  amount  is  about  ^  of  a  teaspoon  per  cup  of  molasses.  How- 
ever, the  strong  flavor  of  the  molasses  may  mask  the  flavor  caused  by  the 
excess  soda  to  a  certain  extent,  so  that  one  is  often  safe  in  using  the  amount 
required  for  the  molasses  containing  the  highest  proportion  of  acid,  i.e., 
1  teaspoon  per  cup. 

Many  old  recipes  containing  molasses,  like  those  containing  sour  milk, 
call  for  excess  soda.  In  the  cooky  contest  previously  mentioned,  it  was  not 
uncommon  to  find  recipes  that  called  for  Yi  cup  of  soda  for  3  quarts  of 
molasses  and  a  pint  of  sour  cream  or  milk. 

Honey  and  corn  sirup.  The  acidity  of  honey  as  reported  by  Daniels 
and  Heisig  varies.  For  the  samples  they  tried  they  report  that  from  Yi 
to  1/12  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  was  required  to  neutralize  the  acidity  of  1 
cup  of  honey.  This  acidity  is  so  low  that  it  is  hardly  worth  while  to  add 
soda  for  neutralizing.  The  acidity  of  corn  sirup  is  very  much  lower  than 
that  of  honey. 

Cream  of  tartar.  Cream  of  tartar  is  an  acid  salt  and  combines  with 
soda  to  form  carbon  dioxide  gas.  It  was  used  extensively  before  baking 
powders  came  into  common  use.  Many  recipes  still  state  to  use  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda  for  the  leavening  agent,  and  many  of  them  call  for  equal 
amounts  of  these  two  ingredients.  As  the  weight  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  or 
of  cream  of  tartar  is  practically  the  same,  an  excess  of  soda  is  left  in  the 
baking  mixture  when  equal  measures  of  the  two  are  used,  for  by  weight 
188  parts  of  cream  of  tartar  combine  with  84  parts  of  soda  to  form  18 
parts  of  water,  44  parts  of  carbon  dioxide,  and  210  parts  of  sodium  potas- 
sium tartrate.  These  proportions  by  measure  are  approximately  2^4  tea- 
spoons of  cream  of  tartar  to  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

KHC4H4O6       +     NaHCOa    >    NaKC4H406    +    H2O    +    CO2 

potassium  tartrate  soda  sodium  potassium  water  carbon 

or  cream  of  tartar  tartrate  or  dioxide 

Roclielle  salts 


450  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Baking  Powder 

Hart  states  that  baking  powder  was  first  used  in  England  about  1830. 
It  was  made  of  "pearlash  and  alum,  and  later  of  sesquicarbonate  of  am- 
monia." When  crystalline  substances  were  mixed  with  soda,  a  wider  use 
was  insured  for  baking  powder,  for  with  the  dry  salts,  reactions  of  the 
baking  powder  did  not  take  place  until  it  was  moistened,  and  the  alkaline 
and  acid  substances  could  be  kept  in  the  same  container. 

The  ideal  baking  powder.  Hart  states  that  "From  the  standpoint 
of  the  consumer,  the  ideal  baking  powder  (a)  gives  the  most  gas  for  the 
least  volume  and  weight  of  powder;  (b)  gives  the  gas  slowly  when  cold 
and  increasingly  in  the  cooking  dough,  so  the  dough  may  be  mixed  cold 
and  left  standing  several  hours;  begins  to  generate  gas  in  quantity  in  the 
oven  and  ceases  to  generate  when  it  would  rupture  the  crumb;  (r)  leaves  a 
tasteless  and  absolutely  harmless  residue  in  the  bread;  (d)  is  cheap;  (e) 
keeps  well.  The  chemicals  should  not  react  on  one  another  in  the  can  and 
thus  lose  strength." 

Carbon  dioxide.  Under  the  United  States  Food  and  Drugs  Act,  the 
following  definition  for  baking  powder  was  formulated,  "Baking  powder  is 
the  leavening  agent  produced  by  the  mixing  of  an  acid  reacting  material 
and  sodium  bicarbonate  with  or  without  starch  or  flour. 

"It  yields  not  less  than  12  per  cent  of  available  carbon  dioxide." 

The  principal  reason  for  adding  starch  to  baking  powder  is  for  a 
standardizing  agent.  To  some  extent  it  also  absorbs  moisture,  thus  lessen- 
ing the  gas  lost  during  storage  by  reaction  of  the  ingredients  and  for  a 
standardizing  agent.  The  federal  standard  requires  12  per  cent  of  available 
carbon  dioxide,  but  most  of  the  baking  powders  made  for  home  use  yield 
14  per  cent  of  carbon  dioxide.  Starch  is  added  to  each  type  of  baking 
powder  in  amounts  so  that  100  grams  of  the  powder  yield  14  per  cent 
carbon  dioxide.  If  the  amount  of  gas  produced  by  a  definite  weight  of 
baking  powder  were  not  standardized  there  would  be  great  difficulty  in 
substituting  some  types  of  powders  for  others  in  recipes.  For  under  these 
conditions  the  amount  of  carbon  dioxide  produced  by  a  teaspoon  of  powder 
would  vary  far  more  than  it  does  when  the  powder  yields  14  per  cent  of 
carbon  dioxide. 

The  carbon  dioxide  of  baking  powders  is  classified  as  total,  available, 
and  residual.  The  total  carbon  dioxide  is  all  the  carbon  dioxide  contained 
in  the  powder  and  may  be  obtained  by  using  acid  with  it.  The  residual 
carbon  dioxide  is  that  remaining  in  the  powder  after  water  has  been  mixed 
with  it  and  heat  has  been  applied.  Available  carbon  dioxide  represents  the 
difference  between  total  and  residual  and  is  the  amount  usually  obtained 
under  baking  conditions. 

Types  of  baking  powders.  The  alkaline  ingredient  of  all  baking 
powders  is  soda.  The  acid  ingredient  varies,  and  the  names  of  the  various 


TYPES  OF  BAKING  POWDERS  451 

types  of  baking  powders  refer  to  the  kind  of  compound  used  for  the  acid 
ingredient.  The  function  of  the  acid  salt  is  the  same  regardless  of  the  type 
of  salt  used.  It  combines  with  and  releases  the  CO2  from  the  soda.  The 
types  of  baking  powders  are  (1)  tartrate,  (2)  phosphate,  (3)  sulfate,  and 
(4)  a  combination  of  sulfate  and  phosphate. 

Tartrate  powders.  The  tartrate  powders  on  the  market  consist  of  cream 
of  tartar  or  a  combination  of  cream  of  tartar  and  tartaric  acid.  Tartaric 
acid  is  not  used  alone  in  baking  powders.  The  objections  to  using  it  alone 
as  given  by  Hart  are  that  "Its  reaction  is  rapid  and  complete  in  cold  water, 
and  its  keeping  quality  correspondingly  poor."  Cream  of  tartar  reacts  more 
slowly  than  tartaric  acid  but  keeps  and  aerates  well. 

The  residue  left  from  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  is  ''Rochelle"  salts.  See 
the  reaction  under  cream  of  tartar.  Tartaric  acid  leaves  sodium  tartrate  as 
a  residue. 


^2C4H406 

+ 

2NaHC03 

> 

Na2C4H40c 

+      2H2O 

-f-         2CO2 

tartaric 

soda 

sodium 

water 

carbon 

acid 

tartrate 

dioxide 

Phosphate  powders.  Three  phosphate  compounds  are  or  have  been  used 
In  baking  powder.  Monosodium  phosphate  has  been  used,  but  so  far  as  the 
author  knows  no  baking  powders  on  the  market  at  present  contain  it. 
Monocalcium  phosphate  is  most  frequently  used.  Lately  sodium  acid  pyro- 
phosphate is  being  used  in  considerable  quantities  by  commercial  bakers. 
Phosphoric  acid  forms  three  series  of  salts,  such  as  Na3P04,  NaoHP04, 
and  NaH2P04.  The  first  is  not  formed  in  baked  products.  Davis  and 
Maveety  state  that  the  monosodium  phosphate  (NaH2P04),  disodium 
phosphate  (NaoHP04),  tricalcium  phosphate  (Ca3(P04)2),  and  dical- 
cium  phosphate  (CaHP04)  are  found  in  the  residue  after  the  baking 
powder  has  reacted.  They  state  that  the  reaction  is  carried  to  completion 
with  the  formation  of  Na2HP04  and  Ca3(P04)2  only  when  an  excess  of 
hydroxyl  ions  is  present. 

Bailey  gives  three  equations  which  represent  the  reactions  that  may  take 
place  under  favorable  conditions.  He  adds  that  equation  (3)  represents 
what  probably  usually  occurs. 

2CaH4(P04)2  +  4NaHC03  >  2CaHP04  +  2Na2HP04  +  4CO2  4-  4H2O  (1) 
3CaH4(P04)2  4-  4NaHC03  >  Ca3(P04)2  4-  4NaH2P04  +  4CO2  +  4H2O  (2) 
3CaH4(P04)2  4-  SNaHCOs  >  Ca3(P04)2  +  4Na2HP04  +  8CO2  4-  8H0O  (3) 

With  sodium  acid  pyrophosphate  Bailey  states  that  there  is  some  ques- 
tion concerning  the  products  of  reaction  and  gives  two  equations  that  may 
represent  what  occurs. 

Na2H2P207  4-  2NaHC03  >  2Na2HP04  4-  2CO2  4-  H2O 

and 

Na2H2P207  4-  2NaHC03  >  Na4P207  4-  2CO2  4-  2H2O 


452  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Sodium  acid  pyrophosphate  is  at  present  put  up  with  cornstarch  and 
sold  only  to  bakers.  The  bakers  add  the  soda,  using  2  parts  of  combined 
starch  and  disodium  pyrophosphate  to  1  part  of  soda.  This  proportion  yields 
about  17  per  cent  of  available  carbon  dioxide.  Some  of  the  other  baking 
powders  for  the  bakery  trade  are  also  made  to  yield  17  per  cent  of  carbon 
dioxide. 

Sulfate  powders.  The  author  knows  of  no  straight  sulfate  powders  on 
the  market  at  the  present  time.  Sodium  aluminum  sulfate  is  the  acid  salt 
used  in  these  powders. 

Combination  sulfate-phosphate  powders.  These  powders  contain  two  acid 
salts  in  varying  proportions.  The  sulfate  salt  is  sodium  aluminum  sulfate 
and  the  phosphate  is  monocalcium  phosphate.  Hart  states  that  sodium 
aluminum  sulfate  "has  first  class  keeping  quality  and  has  an  aerating  value 
about  the  same  as  tartartic  acid."  The  reaction  of  the  phosphate  salt  with 
soda  has  been  given  above.  One  ingredient  of  the  residue  of  sulfate  powders 
is  aluminum  hydroxide.  Another  is  sodium  sulfate.  The  latter  in  excess 
produces  a  bitter  taste.  The  sodium  aluminum  sulfate  is  first  hydrolyzed 
with  water.  The  sulfuric  acid  formed  then  reacts  with  the  sodium  bicar- 
bonate. Bailey  states  that  ''Besides  the  reaction  of  the  phosphate  and  sodium 

Na2S04  Al2(S04)3  +  6H2O  >  Na2S04  +  2A1(0H)3  +  3H2SO4 
3H2SO4  +  6NaHC03  >  6CO2  +  6H2O  +  3Na2S04 

aluminum  sulfate  with  soda,  there  is  probably  an  interaction  between  the 
two." 

The  preceding  Graphic  Chart  by  Dr.  Chittick  shows  *'the  ingredients 
present  in  the  various  types  of  baking  powders,  proportioned  to  produce 
14  per  cent  of  gas,  which  is  the  average  strength  of  the  standard  baking 
powders."  It  also  shows  the  compounds  formed  from  the  reaction  of  the 
various  baking  powders  and  the  percentage  or  possible  percentage  of  these 
compounds. 

Chittick  has  suggested  calling  baking  powders  containing  the  sodium 
aluminum  sulfate  salt  (sometimes  known  as  aluminum  or  S.A.S.  baking 
powder)  sulfate  powders,  which  is  a  good  suggestion.  He  also  suggests 
that  baking  powders  consisting  of  a  combination  of  sodium  aluminum 
sulfate  and  phosphate  salts  be  called  sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder. 
These  changes  are  shown  in  the  Baking  Powder  Chart.  Because  of  the 
number  of  times  names  of  types  of  baking  powder  are  used  in  the  labora- 
tory outline,  the  author  has  used  the  abbreviation,  S.-P.,  for  sulfate- 
phosphate  powders. 

Temperature  and  reaction  of  baking  powder.  Sulfate  powder  re- 
acts slowly  at  room  temperature.  Bailey  states  that  at  room  temperature  a 
tartrate  baking  powder  will  react  completely,  a  straight  phosphate  will 
yield  two-thirds  of  its  gas,  but  heat  is  required  to  liberate  the  remainder, 
and  a  combination  powder  will  liberate  from  one-fifth  to  one-third  of  its 


—  o    .- 


So 

^ 

'li 

HIP 

— 

P 

m 

IIP 

\ 

m 

iiil 

ii? 

— 

^i 

11 

/ 

i?„~§ 

iif 

^ 

m 

ill 

m 

^ 

% 

31"'- 

(^ 0 N 

? 

Wi 

\n 

IM.- 

m 

— 

ii 
ii 

m 

/ 

2  0  S 

ilk. 

— ^.^ 

"   0 

^ 

ill 

ip 

-^ 

Si 

^ 

355" 

*^ 

ii 


*"  1 


u    43    <u    ?j 


DC.—    o 

C    X 

"  .2  vti 

6-e - 


O  J3    "I 


(« 


?  t;  be 

4J      -M      D      ~~ 

5    G    >.— 
«J   O   o   ^ 

0,T3    a^   ^ 

^  c 


2^ 
.2i   o 


2  I 

on    O 


CX  O 

<u 
<u  G  -r 

Q    rt    on 


bO 

^    O   2    4>  « 

_,    CX  c  J3  JH 

c  i>  )« .« 

^  ^»i  Si  " 

5^  <uj:  2 


O    K 

o,  ..  3  a,  (u 


02    O"  o  ^- 
■  ■  ^ 

3 


,^   05   -  (u  ,:i 

w)S  5  *^  '^ 


G  a 


•  S  <"  rt  "^ 

fe   t:    IS    aj    y 


CARBON  DIOXIDE  LOST  FROM  A  BATTER 


453 


gas.  The  baking  powders  that  liberate  a  larger  proportion  of  carbon  dioxide 
at  room  temperature  are  often  referred  to  as  rapid  acting;  those  liberating 
a  small  proportion  at  room  temperature  are  called  slow  acting.  Bailey 
classes  sodium  acid  pyrophosphate  as  a  slow-acting  powder.  Barackman 
states  that  it  may  be  classed  as  a  rapid-acting  powder  in  water  but  a  slow 
one  in  a  dough.  Sulfate-phosphate  is  a  combination  of  a  rapid-  and  a  slow- 
acting  powder.  It  can  be  readily  seen  that  it  is  possible  for  some  types  of 
powder  to  lose  a  larger  proportion  of  gas  during  mixing  than  other  types 
of  powder.  For  this  reason  a  smaller  amount  of  the  slow-acting  powders 
can  be  used  in  many  baked  products. 

The  amount  of  carbon  dioxide  lost  from  a  batter.  A  smaller  pro- 
portion of  gas  is  lost  from  a  batter  during  mixing  than  from  water,  owing 
at  least  in  part  to  the  density  and  viscosity  of  the  dough  mixture.  Noble 
and  Halliday  have  done  considerable  work  with  baking  powder.  The  fol- 
lowing table  from  their  results  shows  the  comparative  loss  from  water  and 
from  a  simplified  dough  mixture  after  mixing  for  40  seconds.  They  have 
also  determined  the  amount  of  carbon  dioxide  evolved  in  a  simplified  batter 
during  40  seconds'  mixing.  This  was  only  slightly  greater  than  the  amount 
lost  from  the  batter,  as  shown  in  Table  53. 


TABLE  53 

Carbon  Dioxide  Lost  When  Baking  Powder  Is  Combined  with  Water 
Only,  and  with  Other  Ingredients  into  Batters  {Noble  and  Halliday) 


Average  quantity  of  CO2  lost  when  baking 
powder  is  mixed  for  40  seconds  with 

Type  of 
baking 
powder 

Water 

Flour, 

fat, 
water 

Flour, 
fat, 
milk 

Flour,  fat,  sugar, 
and  water 

Average  quantity 
of  CO2  lost  when 
baking  powder  is 
beaten  for  20  sec- 

4.9 

9.8 

onds    with    flour, 
fat,  and  water 

per  cent 

per  cent 

sugar 

sugar 

per  cent 
by 

weight 

per  cent 

by 
weight 

per  cent 

by 
weight 

per  cent 

by 
weight 

per  cent 

by 
weight 

per  cent  by  weight 

Tartrate 

10.11 

6.77 

6.01 

6.45 

6.78 

6.18 

Phosphate 

9.34 

5.56 

.... 

4.71 

5.81 

4.52 

S.  -  P.  1 

5.15 

3.25 

2.78 

2.58 

2.60 

2.70 

S.  -  P.  2 

3.91 

2.29 

1.76 

1.89 

2.61 

1.27 

454 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Barackman  states  that  for  baking  purposes  the  carbon  dioxide  from  bak- 
ing powder  may  be  divided  into  three  divisions  as  follows:  "1.  the  amount 
lost  from  a  dough  during  mixing  and  standing ;  2.  the  amount  causing 
expansion  of  the  dough;  this  is  called  'bench  action'  by  bakers;  3.  the 
amount  of  carbon  dioxide  dissolved  and  adsorbed  and  that  available  from 
unreacted  soda  which  will  be  effective  as  leavening  at  oven  heat."  Barack- 
man has  determined  the  carbon  dioxide  for  these  three  divisions  in  biscuits 
and  doughnuts.  Instead  of  using  baking  powder  he  used  acid  salts  and  soda 
in  the  dough  mixtures.  The  acid  salts  used  were  calcium  acid  phosphate, 
sodium  acid  pyrophosphate,  potassium  acid  tartrate  (cream  of  tartar),  and 
sulfate-phosphate.  For  convenience  dry  mixes  were  made  up  to  which  water 
was  later  added  in  a  special  mixing  apparatus.  The  dry  mix  for  biscuits 
contained  flour,  soda  1.5  per  cent  (flour  basis),  acid  salt,  and  shortening 
10  per  cent.  The  dry  doughnut  mixture  contained  flour,  soda,  acid  salt, 
shortening  5.55  per  cent,  sugar  22.2  per  cent,  powdered  egg  3.33  per  cent, 
and  dry  skim  milk  10  per  cent.  When  water  was  mixed  with  the  dry  in- 
gredients heat  was  evolved.  This  made  it  necessary  to  use  control  doughs 
containing  no  acid  salt  or  soda,  to  correct  for  the  expansion  of  occluded  air 
in  the  dough.  The  doughs  all  had  a  final  temperature  of  27°C.  =^  0.5°. 


TABLE  54 

Volume  in  Cubic  Centimeters  of  Carbon  Dioxide  Evolved  from  Sodium 
Acid  Pyrophosphate  and  Soda  {Barackman) 


Biscuit  Doughs 

Doughnut  doughs 

Time, 

Water  solution 
A 

Minutes 

B 

C 

D 

B 

C 

D 

0 

0 

84.3 

0 

27.0 

0 
25.6 

1 

111.3 

42.1 

36.0 

2 

120.4 

58.1 

14.2 

43.9 

40.5 

4.5 

36.0 

3 

122.9 

64.9 

18.0 

46.9 

42.9 

6.0 

36.9 

4 

124.2 

69.9 

21.8 

48.1 

44.7 

6.7 

38.0 

5 

124.9 

73.8 

25.6 

48.2 

46.0 

7.5 

38.5 

6 

125.6 

77.5 

28.4 

49.1 

47.5 

8.2 

39.3 

7 

125.9 

81.0 

30.3 

48.7 

48.1 

9.0 

40.1 

8 

126.5 

84.3 

33.2 

51.1 

50.5 

9.0 

41.5 

9 

127.2 

86.6 

35.1 

51.5 

51.9 

9.7 

41.2 

10 

127.6 

88.8 

37.0 

51.8 

52.0 

10.5 

41.5 

15 

129.4 

98.2 

43.6 

54.6 

56.7 

12.7 

43.0 

A.  Reaction  in  water. 

B.  Reaction  in  dough. 


C.  Dough  volume. 

D.  Volume  of  CO)  lost. 


FINENESS  OF  DIVISION  OF  BAKING  POWDER      455 


Barackman's  results  for  the  rate  of  reaction  of  sodium  acid  pyrophosphate 
are  given  in  Table  54. 

From  the  results  obtained  Barackman  concluded  that  a  rapid-acting  bak- 
ing acid  caused  a  larger  loss  of  carbon  dioxide  from  the  dough  during 
mixing,  whereas  a  slow-acting  acid  has  a  smaller  loss  and  consequently  a 
greater  quantity  of  available  gas  left  In  the  dough  for  baking.  "Of  the 
gas  generated  during  mixing  only  20  to  30  per  cent  is  retained  by  the 
doughs.  This,  plus  the  gas  in  the  undecomposed  soda,  Is  available  for 
leavening  In  the  oven.  No  appreciable  loss  of  gas  occurs  after  mixing." 

In  the  following  tables  the  specific  volume  was  obtained  by  dividing  the 
volume  of  the  biscuits  or  cake  by  their  weight. 

TABLE  55 

The  Percentage  of  Carbon  Dioxide  Lost  from  Biscuit  Doughs  Compared 
WITH  THE  Reduction  in  Specific  Volume  of  Biscuits  {Barackman) 


Acid  ingredients 

< 

CO2  avail- 
able in 

dough  at 
2  minutes, 

per  cent 

COo  lost 
after  15 
minutes, 
per  cent  of 
available 

Specific 

volume  of 

biscuits 

baked 

immediately 

Reduced 
specific  vol- 
ume due  to 

standing, 
per  cent  loss 

Phosphate 

49 
78 
70 
76 

4.0 

6.5 

13.0 

6.5 

2.24 
2.75 
2.65 
2.41 

8.5 

S.  A.  P.  P 

Tartrate 

9.0 
11.0 

Sulfate  phosphate*  . . . 

3.0 

*  E.xception  due  to  eflFect  of  acid  on  colloidal  properties  of  dough. 

Barackman's  conclusion  was  that  a  correlation  exists  between  the  carbon 
dioxide  left  in  doughs  after  mixing  and  the  volume  of  the  baked  product. 
**The  major  portion  (70  to  80  per  cent)  of  the  carbon  dioxide  generated 
from  baking  powders  during  the  mixing  of  doughs  is  lost."  In  the  above 
table  the  reduced  specific  volume  is  due  to  the  biscuits  being  mixed  and 
allowed  to  stand  15  minutes  before  cutting  and  baking.  The  controls  were 
baked  within  2  to  3  minutes  after  mixing. 

Fineness  of  division  of  baking  powder.  The  fineness  of  division  of 
a  baking  powder  may  affect  the  grain  and  texture  of  the  baked  product. 
With  finely  ground  powders  It  seems  reasonable  to  expect  that  the  bubbles 
of  carbon  dioxide  produced  will  be  smaller  than  with  coarser  baking  pow- 
ders, and  that  a  finer  grain  will  thus  be  produced  In  cakes  and  other 
products.  Patterson  refers  to  such  a  result  with  finely  ground  baking  pow- 
ders. Sifting  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  aids  In  mixing  the  baking 
powder  more  uniformly  throughout  the  batter  or  dough,  and  prevents  loss 
of  gas  that  would  occur  If  the  baking  powder  were  mixed  with  the  liquid. 

Brown  spots  are  often  produced  on  the  crust  of  cookies,  biscuits,  cakes, 


456 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


TABLE  56 

Carbon   Dioxide   Content  of  Cake   Batters  and  the   Specific  Volume 

OF  Cakes  {Barackman) 


Acid  ingredients 

Per  cent  COo 

in  batter  by 

analysis 

Specific 

volume  of 

cakes 

Specific  volume 
increase  over 
control  (1.72) 

Phosphate 

23.0 
54.0 
41.5 

52.5 

2.73 
3.14 
2.90 
2.89 

1.01 

S.  A.  P.  P 

Tartrate 

Sulfate  phosphate* 

1.42 
1.18 
1.17 

*  Exception  due  to  effect  of  acid  on  colloidal  properties  of  dough. 

and  other  products  when  baking  powder  is  used  in  them.  If  the  baking 
powder  used  contains  soda  that  is  not  finely  ground,  these  spots  are  more 
likely  to  occur.  The  spots  do  not  develop  in  the  thin  batters  because  of  the 
large  proportion  of  liquid,  for  solution  of  the  soda  is  thus  obtained.  The 
brown  spots  appear  in  the  product  when  the  baking  powder  has  been  mixed 
only  a  short  time  with  the  dough.  With  longer  mixing  the  soda  is  dis- 
solved and  the  spots  do  not  appear.  If  doughs  are  allowed  to  stand  before 
baking,  the  spots  may  not  develop  or  a  smaller  number  may  form.  Since 
cakes  are  usually  mixed  longer  than  biscuits  and  cookies,  the  spots  develop 
more  frequently  in  cakes  when  the  baking  powder  is  added  after  the  mix- 
ing of  the  batter  is  partially  completed. 

The   Structure  o£   Batters   and   Doughs 

The  texture  or  structure  of  the  finished  product  depends  partly  upon 
the  structure  obtained  in  the  batter  or  dough  when  it  is  mixed.  The  role 
the  flour  plays  in  batter  and  dough  products  is  the  same  as  in  bread,  but 
since  the  batter  or  dough  may  contain  different  proportions  of  liquid  and 
other  ingredients  the  structure  of  the  baked  product  is  often  unlike  that 
of  bread. 

The  factors  that  affect  the  texture  of  the  finished  product  may  be 
grouped  as  follows:  (1)  the  ingredients  used,  (2)  the  proportion  of  the 
ingredients  used,  (3)  the  kind  and  amount  of  baking  powder  used,  (4) 
the  extent  of  mixing,  (5)  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed, 
and  (6)   the  method  of  mixing  or  combining  ingredients. 

Doughs  and  batters  may  also  be  considered  in  relation  to  their  ph^^sical 
properties.  One  of  the  physical  properties  of  batters  and  doughs  which  is 
intimately  connected  with  their  structure,  and  which  can  be  measured,  is 
viscosity.  Viscosity  of  batters  and  doughs  is  important  enough  to  repeat  the 
ten  factors  listed  by  Ostwald,  causing  variation  in  viscosity,  which  have 


MECHANICAL  TREATMENT  457 

been  previously  mentioned  in  Chapter  I.  They  are:  (1)  concentration, 
(2)  temperature,  (3)  degree  of  dispersion,  (4)  solvation,  (5)  electrical 
charge,  (6)  previous  thermal  treatment,  (7)  previous  mechanical  treat- 
ment, (8)  the  presence  or  absence  of  other  lyophilic  colloids,  (9)  the  age 
of  the  lyophilic  sol,  and  (10)  the  presence  of  both  electrolytes  and  non- 
electrolytes. 

The  ingredients  and  their  proportion.  When  factors  (1)  concentra- 
tion, (8)  the  presence  or  absence  of  other  lyophilic  colloids,  and  (10)  the 
presence  of  both  electrolytes  and  non-electrolytes,  are  combined,  we  have 
a  formula  or  a  recipe,  in  other  w^ords  the  ingredients  and  their  proportion 
or  concentration.  Batters  and  doughs  consist  of  flour  and  a  liquid.  Usually 
some  fat  and  egg  are  added,  though  one  or  the  other  may  be  omitted :  fat 
is  seldom  used  in  popovers,  and  baking  powder  biscuits  contain  no  egg. 
The  proteins  and  starch  of  the  flour  are  lyophilic  systems.  When  eggs  or 
milk  are  added  their  proteins  add  other  lyophilic  colloids. 

As  the  concentration  or  the  quantity  of  the  different  ingredients  in  the 
batter  is  varied,  its  properties  and  characteristics  vary,  which  in  turn  in- 
fluences the  texture  of  the  finished  product.  A  batter  with  a  high  concentra- 
tion of  liquid  has  a  greater  fluidity;  one  with  a  smaller  proportion  has  a 
greater  viscosity.  As  the  proportion  of  each  ingredient  is  varied,  the  finished 
product  is  altered  accordingly,  the  kind  and  extent  of  the  alteration  depend- 
ing upon  the  particular  quality  imparted  to  the  batter  by  the  ingredient 
and  upon  the  proportion  of  it  used. 

The  proportion  of  liquid  used  also  influences  the  degree  of  solvation  or 
hydration  of  certain  constituents  of  the  batter,  i.e.,  the  protein  and  starch. 

The  presence  of  both  electrolytes  and  non-electrolytes.  Baking 
powder,  salt,  soda,  and  cream  of  tartar  belong  to  the  group  of  electrolytes. 
Salts  affect  the  imbibition  of  water  by  gluten  and  coagulation  by  heat. 
Since  baking  powders  contain  different  acid  salts,  it  is  possible  that  they 
may  affect,  in  different  degrees,  the  rate  of  hydration  of  the  gluten  and  the 
total  amount  of  water  absorbed. 

Sugar  belongs  to  the  group  of  non-electrolytes.  Its  presence  in  large 
quantity  in  a  batter  affects  the  structure  and  also  the  extent  of  mechanical 
treatment  needed  to  obtain  a  certain  type  of  grain. 

Mechanical  treatment.  The  extent  of  mixing  a  definite  batter  or 
dough  may  alter  its  viscosity  or  fluidity,  and  the  texture  of  the  finished 
product  varies  with  this  variation  in  viscosity. 

In  the  laboratory  outline  an  effort  is  made  to  control  the  amount  of 
mixing  in  most  of  the  batter  and  dough  series  by  counting  the  number 
of  strokes  used  to  stir  the  batter,  particularly  after  the  flour  is  added.  It 
has  been  found  that  this  gives  more  uniform  results  when  mixing  is  done 
with  a  spoon  or  similar  utensil,  than  to  mix  for  a  definite  time.  Some 
girls  will  use  more  than  twice  as  many  strokes  in  a  stated  time  as  others. 
To  have  the  strokes  more  uniform  they  should  all  be  made  across  the  bowl 
or  all  used  in  a  stirring  motion.  If  a  very  large  spoon  or  one  with  slots  is 


458  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

used,  it  may  be  necessary  to  mix  with  a  smaller  number  of  strokes  than  the 
ones  suggested. 

When  it  is  possible  a  mechanical  mixer  with  a  definite  speed  is  pref- 
erable to  use  for  school  work.  Here,  too,  the  amount  of  mixing  required 
depends  somewhat  upon  the  size  of  the  mixer  and  the  quantity  of  ma- 
terial used.  With  large  classes  it  is  not  always  possible  to  have  enough 
mixers  not  to  delay  the  class  work.  Mixing  with  a  spoon  has  the  advantage 
of  being  the  method  used  under  most  home  conditions. 

There  is  an  amount  of  mixing,  which  partially  or  completely  dissolves 
the  sugar,  develops  the  gluten  network  sufficiently,  and  distributes  the  fat 
throughout  the  batter,  that  gives  the  best  flavor  and  texture  to  the  finished 
product.  The  product  is  tender  and  the  volume  is  good.  This  amount  of 
mixing,  which  may  be  called  the  optimum  amount,  will  vary  with  each 
recipe,  i.e.,  with  the  ingredients  and  their  proportion.  One  illustration  is 
the  kind  of  flour  used,  for  the  optimum  amount  of  mixing  is  not  alwaj^s 
the  same  for  bread  and  pastry  flours.  It  will  also  vary  with  the  temperature 
of  the  ingredients  when  they  are  mixed. 

The  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed.  The  tempera- 
ture of  the  ingredients  when  mixed  influences  the  structure  obtained, 
particularly  in  cakes  and  doughnuts.  The  protein  particles  of  flour  imbibe 
water  more  rapidly  at  higher  temperatures.  Sugar  is  more  soluble  with 
increasing  temperature.  But  perhaps  the  consistency  of  the  fat  and  its  dis- 
tribution throughout  the  batter  are  most  affected  by  temperature.  If  the 
temperature  is  low  a  fat  is  firmer,  and  less  plastic.  It  spreads  less  readily 
throughout  the  other  ingredients.  The  temperature  of  the  other  ingredients 
may  be  such  that  fat  is  rendered  more  or  less  plastic,  i.e.,  they  may  be 
warmer  or  colder  than  the  fat.  In  cake  batters,  if  an  oil  is  used  the  oil  may 
be  partially  or  wholly  emulsified  as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion,  the  flour  and 
egg  proteins  acting  as  the  emulsifiers  and  surrounding  the  spheres  of  oil. 
If  a  fat  is  melted  and  added  to  a  cake  batter  and  the  temperature  of  the 
ingredients  is  such  that  they  do  not  harden  the  fat,  a  portion  or  all  of  the 
fat  may  be  emulsified  as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  and  the  structure  is 
similar  to  that  produced  by  oil.  This  distribution  of  the  oil  in  a  batter 
as  well  as  adsorption  of  fat  and  proteins  at  interfaces  is  probably  influenced 
by  the  electrical  charge. 

The  method  of  mixing  the  ingredients.  Bingham  states,  '*A  pure 
liquid,  at  a  given  temperature  and  pressure,  can  have  but  a  single  fluidity, 
but  in  our  study  of  liquid  mixtures  we  have  seen  that  a  mixture  of  liquids 
may  have  an  indefinite  number  of  fluidities  dependent  upon  the  method 
of  mixing,  in  other  words,  upon  the  structure  of  the  liquid.  Since  colloidal 
solutions  are  always  heterogeneous,  they  always  possess  structure,  and 
therefore  we  have  this  variable  always  entering  into  our  consideration, 
whereas  heretofore  we  have  given  it  but  scant  attention.  There  is,  how- 
ever, every  gradation  from  a  pure  liquid,  to  an  incompletely  mixed  solu- 
tion, an  emulsion,  suspension  or  typical  gel." 


ROLE  OF  INGREDIENTS  IN  BATTERS  459 

Methods  of  mixing  and  order  of  combination  of  ingredients  have  been 
important  in  many  of  the  products  that  have  been  studied,  i.e.,  gelatin, 
emulsions,  milk,  and  egg  cookery.  The  methods  of  mixing  are  particularly 
important  in  the  batter  and  dough  series.  In  some  doughs,  like  pastry  and 
biscuits,  the  fat  is  first  blended  with  the  flour,  and  the  liquid  is  then 
added;  in  other  instances  the  liquid  ingredients  are  mixed  and  the  flour 
added  to  them.  Many  different  methods  of  mixing  may  be  used  w^ith  cakes. 
They  will  be  discussed  in  more  detail  later. 

A  microscopic  study  of  the  distribution  of  the  fat  by  different  methods 
of  mixing  shows  many  gradations  from  the  fat  distributed  in  very  thin 
films  to  that  in  thick  layers.  Sometimes  the  fat  or  oil  is  completely  emulsi- 
fied, sometimes  only  partially.  The  sugar  may  be  partially  dissolved,  **an 
incompletely  mixed  solution,"  or  completely  dissolved.  One  can  see  that 
it  is  not  strange  that  cakes  and  other  batter  products  are  not  always  identi- 
cally alike  with  different  bakings.  Different  methods  of  mixing  may  give 
different  results,  but  from  the  previous  discussion  one  concludes  that  a 
person  cannot  state  definitely  of  a  muffin,  biscuit,  or  cake,  that  its  texture 
is  due  to  the  method  of  mixing  alone,  for  the  extent  of  mixing,  the  tem- 
perature of  the  ingredients,  interfacial  reactions,  and  other  factors  in- 
fluence the  texture  obtained. 

The  effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  the  flavor  of  dough  and  batter 
products.  The  statement  that  a  cake  from  one-half  of  a  batter  after  the 
ingredients  are  barely  mixed  does  not  have  the  same  flavor  as  a  cake  baked 
from  the  other  half  of  the  batter  after  a  longer  mixing  may  seem  strange 
at  first.  But  with  longer  mixing  the  sugar  is  better  dissolved,  and  the  other 
ingredients  better  blended.  To  prevent  repetition  in  the  discussion  of  specific 
batter  and  dough  products,  flavor  is  seldom  discussed.  But  from  the  stand- 
point of  eating  quality,  flavor  is  of  great  importance,  and  on  a  score  card 
the  author  would  rate  flavor  higher  than  texture,  appearance,  or  tender- 
ness. However,  in  the  dough  and  batter  series  good  flavor  and  good  texture 
are  closely  related,  i.e.,  if  the  texture  is  excellent  the  flavor  is  also  usually 
rated  high.  Of  course  this  is  presuming  that  the  ingredients  used  are  of 
good  quality  and  flavor,  and  that  good  proportions  are  used,  i.e.,  too  much 
salt  is  not  added,  etc.  Unless  otherwise  stated,  it  is  considered  that  the 
conditions  that  produce  the  best  texture  also  give  the  best  flavor. 

The  role  the  various  ingredients  play  in  batter  products.  Liquid. 
The  liquid  is  a  solvent  for  sugar,  soluble  salts,  and  proteins.  It  is  through 
solution  in  the  liquid  that  the  chemical  reaction  of  baking  powder  is 
brought  about  with  release  of  COo.  The  liquid  hydrates  the  flour  and  egg 
proteins,  giving  the  flour  proteins  cohesiveness  and  increasing  the  extensi- 
bility of  proteins.  Sugar  in  solution  in  the  liquid  comes  in  closer  contact 
with  proteins.  The  absorption  and  consequent  swelling  of  starch  granules 
gives  them  adhesiveness  and  cohesiveness  and  aids  in  forming  the  frame- 
work of  baked  products. 

Flour.  Flour  forms  the  framework,  the  backbone,  or  skeleton  of  baked 


460  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

products.  This  framework  is  more  or  less  modified  by  the  other  ingre- 
dients. The  gluten  forms  a  continuous  network,  and  the  starch  granules, 
which  swell  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  depending  on  the  proportion  of 
liquid,  become  more  or  less  adhesive  and  are  embedded  in  the  gluten  net- 
work. 

Fat.  Fat  renders  a  product  tender  or  short.  It  is  not  soluble  but  is 
adsorbed  strongly  on  the  surface  of  other  constituents  and  forms  films 
separating  and  lubricating  them.  In  this  way  it  is  one  of  the  major  factors 
in  producing  a  velvety,  soft  crumb  in  cake.  Fat  adds  richness  and  tends  to 
decrease  the  volume.  If  creamed  it  is  a  means  of  incorporating  air,  thus 
increasing  the  porosity. 

Sugar.  Sugar  adds  flavor.  In  increasing  amounts  up  to  the  optimum  it 
tends  to  increase  the  volume  and  tenderness  of  the  product  to  which  it  is 
added.  Fat  is  strongly  adsorbed  by  sugar  crystals  and  is  thus  distributed 
throughout  the  batter.  Sugar  peptizes  egg  and  possibly  flour  proteins,  ele- 
vating the  coagulation  temperature  of  these  proteins.  In  increasing  amounts 
it  delays  solution  of  baking  powder  and  other  salts,  so  that  carbon  dioxide 
is  produced  more  slowly.  It  is  also  possible  that  it  may  tend  to  absorb 
some  of  the  carbon  dioxide,  thus  lessening  the  amount  lost  during  mixing. 
Because  it  is  somewhat  porous  it  may  be  a  means  of  adding  more  air  to 
the  batter. 

Egg.  Egg  adds  flavor  and  additional  protein  for  the  framework.  If  the 
yolk  and  white  are  not  separated,  the  egg  tends  to  decrease  the  volume 
and  increase  the  elasticity  and  rubberiness.  The  lecithio-protein  of  the  egg 
yolk  has  strong  emulsifying  properties  and  in  batters  emulsifies  all  or  a 
major  portion  of  the  oil  or  melted  fat.  When  the  white  is  separated  from 
the  yolk  it  can  be  used  as  a  means  of  incorporating  air,  thus  increasing  the 
volume  and  tenderness  of  the  product.  Well-beaten  whole  egg  can  also  be 
used  as  a  means  of  incorporating  air,  if  added  quickly  to  the  batter  before 
the  air  is  lost. 

Baki7ig  powder.  Baking  powder  in  optimum  amounts  increases  the 
porosity  of  products  and,  by  stretching  the  elastic  protein,  thinner  cell 
walls,  more  tender  products,  and  products  of  larger  volume  are  obtained. 
It  is  possible  that  ions  of  salts  of  the  baking  powder  or  their  residual  salts 
may  modify  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  flour  proteins  and  some  ions  may 
tend  to  peptize  some  proteins. 

Popovers 

The  amount  of  liquid  used  in  popovers  is  large,  and  thus  the  hydration 
of  the  gluten  particles  is  too  great  for  them  to  adhere  tenaciously  to  each 
other.  Therefore,  the  popover  batter  may  be  beaten  without  increasing  the 
compactness  and  without  toughening  the  baked  popovers  to  any  appreciable 
extent.  Egg  is  added  to  popovers.  It  is  necessary  to  furnish  additional,  ex- 
tensible protein  to  hold  the  steam  formed  from  the  liquid  and  to  coagulate 


CREAM  PUFFS  461 

during  baking  to  form  the  popover  walls.  If  baked  with  no  added  egg, 
popovers  do  not  increase  in  volume  during  baking  and  the  texture  is  very 
soggy  and  compact.  Except  during  the  period  of  the  year  when  the  baking 
quality  of  the  eggs  is  greatest,  better  popovers  are  often  produced  if  the 
number  of  eggs  in  the  recipe  is  increased  to  3.  If  the  eggs  are  not  weighed 
and  are  small  in  size,  better  volume  is  always  obtained  by  using  3  eggs. 

The  popover  batter  may  be  put  into  hot  or  cold  containers  for  baking. 
There  seems  to  be  little  difference  in  the  finished  popovers,  whichever  way 
started. 

Popovers  are  probably  best  baked  at  rather  high  temperatures,  220°  to 
240°C.,  to  form  steam  rapidly.  They  need  to  be  baked  until  they  feel 
firm  while  still  in  the  oven,  for  they  soften  after  being  taken  from  the 
oven,  and  unless  they  are  quite  firm  will  collapse.  The  heat  may  be  turned 
off  towards  the  last  of  the  baking  period  to  prevent  excessive  browning 
and  the  popovers  left  in  the  oven  to  become  crisp,  for  the  inside  of  the 
popover  is  hollow  and  because  of  the  thin  batter  rather  moist. 

Timbales  and  Cover  Batters 

Timbales  and  rosettes  should  be  crisp,  and  the  timbale  shell  should  be 
thick  enough  to  hold  the  material  that  is  to  be  served  in  it.  Usually  a  cup 
of  flour  to  a  cup  of  liquid  produces  a  good  texture,  but  a  slightly  larger 
or  smaller  proportion  of  flour  to  the  liquid  also  makes  a  good  timbale.  The 
batter  should  be  mixed  until  free  from  lumps  to  avoid  thickened  places 
in  the  finished  timbale.  If  bubbles  are  formed  during  mixing  or  beating  of 
the  batter  they  interfere  with  the  smoothness  of  the  finished  timbale  and 
it  is  therefore  better  to  let  the  batter  stand  until  these  bubbles  disappear. 

The  timbale  iron  should  be  heated  while  the  fat  is  heated  in  the  deep 
fat  kettle  so  that  it  will  be  the  same  temperature  as  the  fat.  If  the  timbale 
iron  is  too  cold  when  it  is  dipped  into  the  batter,  the  batter  will  not  cling 
to  it.  The  fat  should  be  drained  from  the  iron  or  the  surplus  wiped  off  with 
a  paper  towel  before  putting  the  iron  in  the  batter.  Otherwise  the  batter 
will  not  cling  to  the  iron  or  large  holes  may  be  formed  in  the  bottom  of  the 
timbale  case  from  the  surplus  fat. 

Cream  Puffs 

Cream  puffs  contain  a  higher  percentage  of  fat  and  eggs  than  popovers, 
but  the  proportion  of  liquid  to  flour  is  the  same  in  each.  The  fat,  flour, 
and  liquid  are  first  cooked  together  until  a  stiff  ball  of  dough  is  formed. 
They  are  sufficiently  cooked  when  a  metal  spoon  pressed  down  on  the  stiff 
mass  leaves  a  sharp,  clear,  smooth  imprint.  Next  the  eggs  are  beaten  into 
the  batter. 

In  the  stiff  batter  produced  by  cooking  the  fat,  flour,  and  water  only  a 
partial  oil-in-water  emulsion  is  formed.  By  staining  the  fat  with  Scarlet  R 


462  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

its  distribution  in  the  batter  can  be  determined  by  a  microscope.  Some  of 
the  fat  is  rather  coarsely  emulsified,  and  a  good  deal  is  found  in  layers  and 
pools.  Over-cooking  of  the  fat,  flour,  and  water  increases  the  quantity  of 
fat  not  emulsified.  As  the  egg  is  added  the  fat  becomes  better  emulsified, 
the  dispersed  spheres  becoming  smaller.  The  layers  and  pools  of  fat  mostly 
disappear.  The  secret,  and  therefore  the  most  important  factor,  in  mixing 
cream  puffs  in  order  to  obtain  good  expansion  during  baking  and  a  good 
cavity  is  to  beat  the  batter  while  adding  the  eggs  until  it  is  quite  smooth, 
with  no  suggestions  of  small  lumpy  spots.  Perhaps  this  is  the  reason  why 
some  directions  for  mixing  cream  puffs  advise  adding  the  unbeaten  eggs  one 
at  a  time.  Incorporating  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  at  least  insures  thorough 
blending  of  the  first  eggs  added.  However,  the  eggs  can  be  mixed  with 
the  batter  as  easily  or  more  easily  after  they  are  beaten.  When  the  puffs 
are  made  in  large  quantity,  more  than  once  the  recipe,  it  is  better  to  cool 
the  paste  slightly  before  the  eggs  are  added  because  the  large  amount  does 
not  cool  as  rapidly  as  a  smaller  quantity.  Some  recipes  state  to  cool  the 
dough  mixture  before  adding  the  eggs.  On  the  whole,  much  better  class 
results  have  been  obtained  by  adding  the  eggs  to  the  dough  while  it  is 
warm.  The  probable  explanation  for  this  is  that  the  surface  tension  is  lower 
at  the  higher  temperature  and  the  emulsion  forms  more  readily. 

If  the  proportion  of  water  drops  below  a  certain  level  the  tendency  for 
the  fat  to  run  from  the  dough  while  baking  is  increased.  This  may  be  due 
to  the  fat  being  more  easily  emulsified  in  the  thinner  batter. 

Sometimes  the  batter  is  very  thin  after  the  eggs  are  added,  and  it 
spreads  and  does  not  hold  its  shape  on  the  baking  sheet.  When  baked,  the 
puff  expands  in  one  layer,  giving  a  puff  without  a  bottom  or  with  a  layer 
across  the  bottom  that  is  too  thin  to  hold  a  filling.  This  thin  batter  can 
sometimes  be  partially  remedied  by  cooking  and  stirring  over  hot  water 
in  a  double  boiler  until  the  batter  is  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape  when 
dropped  on  the  baking  sheet.  The  batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  its 
shape,  yet  soft  enough  to  appear  glossy,  and  if  forced  through  a  pastry 
tube  should  retain  the  imprint  of  the  tube  teeth.  The  formation  of  the 
thin  batter  is  not  always  due  to  under-cooking,  for  the  flour,  fat,  and  water 
may  form  a  stiff  ball.  The  fat  is  emulsified  thoroughly  enough  to  prevent 
its  oozing  out  of  the  batter,  but  something  happens  that  prevents  the  batter 
from  becoming  viscous.  Usually,  when  the  egg  is  first  added  the  batter 
becomes  somewhat  thinner,  but  after  being  mixed  the  batter  becomes  in- 
creasingly viscous,  until  incorporation  of  the  egg  is  complete,  just  as 
mayonnaise  becomes  stiffer  as  larger  proportions  of  oil  are  emulsified. 

Steam  is  the  leavening  agent,  and  the  expansion  due  to  the  steam  pro- 
duces the  cavity  in  the  puff.  Eggs  are  necessary,  for  their  expansion  and 
coagulation  during  cooking  forms  part  of  the  framework  of  the  baked  puff. 
If  the  number  of  eggs  is  reduced  and  the  amount  of  fat  reduced  at  the 
same  time  a  fair  puff  may  be  obtained.  If  the  number  of  eggs  is  reduced  the 
fat  is  not  sufficiently  emulsified  and  oozes  from  the  puff  as  it  bakes.  As  a 


GRIDDLE  CAKES  463 

result  the  volume  of  the  puff  is  poor.  The  fat  may  be  omitted  and  the 
puffs  are  then  similar  to  popovers.  Cream-puff  like  popover  batter  can  be 
beaten  as  much  as  desired  without  perceptibly  toughening  the  finished  prod- 
uct. The  cooking  of  the  flour  with  the  water  and  fat  coagulates  a  portion 
of  the  flour  protein.  The  starch  granules  also  swell  as  the  flour  is  cooked 
with  the  liquid. 

The  puffs  like  the  popovers  must  be  baked  until  very  firm  or  they  will 
collapse  after  removal  from  the  oven.  The  best  baking  temperature  is  from 
220°  to  240 °C.  Cream  puffs  may  be  baked  as  well  by  starting  in  a  cold 
oven  as  in  a  preheated  oven,  provided  the  oven  heats  quickly  enough  to 
reach  a  temperature  of  220°C.  in  about  25  minutes.  The  batter  may  stand 
some  time  before  baking  provided  it  is  left  in  a  bowl  and  covered  to  pre- 
vent evaporation. 

Griddle  Cakes 

Griddle  cakes  are  made  of  wheat  flour,  or  a  combination  of  cereal  flours, 
a  liquid,  salt,  and  a  leavening  agent.  They  may  or  may  not  contain  egg, 
fat,  and  sugar. 

Griddle  cakes  are  partially  leavened  by  steam,  but  some  baking  powder 
is  necessary.  Both  the  proportion  of  flour  and  baking  powder  can  be 
altered  to  secure  a  thin  or  a  moist  thick  cake.  For  example,  the  consistency 
of  the  batter  made  by  using  1  1/3  cups  of  flour  to  a  cup  of  liquid  can  be 
changed  by  increasing  the  baking  powder.  As  the  quantity  of  powder  is 
increased  the  batter  becomes  increasingly  stiffer  so  that  the  griddle  cakes 
are  less  moist,  more  porous  and  tender,  and  of  greater  volume.  Adding  1^ 
to  2  teaspoons  of  powder  to  1  1/3  cups  of  flour  gives  desirable  cakes.  This 
is  a  rather  large  amount  of  baking  powder,  but  thin  batters  do  not  retain 
the  gas  as  well  as  stiff  ones,  nor  is  air  incorporated  by  creaming  or  by 
folding  in  beaten  egg  white.  The  kind  of  baking  powder,  i.e.,  one  that 
reacts  slowly  or  rapidly  at  room  temperature,  does  not  seem  to  affect  the 
results,  unless  the  batter  has  to  stand  for  a  long  time  before  it  is  cooked. 
If  this  is  necessary,  a  larger  quantity  of  rapid-acting  baking  powder  may 
be  used. 

The  greater  the  proportion  of  flour  used  to  liquid,  the  less  the  batter 
should  be  beaten  in  order  to  have  a  tender  cake.  With  the  very  stiff  batters, 
the  mixing  should  be  continued  only  until  the  dry  ingredients  have  barely 
disappeared.  Over-mixing  gives  a  soggy  texture,  which  is  apt  to  contain 
tunnels.  The  texture  with  over-mixing  seems  to  be  about  the  same  regard- 
less of  the  type  of  baking  powder  used. 

If  colored  oil  or  melted  fat  is  used  in  griddle  cakes  and  waffles  the 
distribution  of  the  fat  can  be  easily  seen.  It  is  dispersed  in  the  uncooked 
batter  as  small  spheres  that  are  large  enough  to  be  seen  without  the  aid 
of  a  microscope.  With  the  concentration  of  fat  used  in  these  fairly  thin 
batters,  this  dispersion  occurs  by  stirring  the  melted  fat  or  oil  into  the 


464  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

batter  and  is  the  same  whether  the  fat  Is  added  first  or  last.  After  cooking, 
a  portion  of  the  fat  is  found  in  pools  or  absorbed  on  the  surface  of  the  cell 
walls  of  the  cooked  product. 

If  2  or  more  tablespoons  of  oil  or  fat  for  each  cup  of  liquid  are  added 
to  the  batter,  the  griddle  cakes  can  be  baked  without  greasing  the  griddle 
iron.  This  is  an  advantage,  for  it  does  away  with  the  fumes  of  smoking 
fat  while  cooking  the  griddle  cakes.  Practically  all  iron  skillets  and  frying 
pans  can  be  used  in  this  way.  Much  depends  upon  the  heating  of  frying 
pan  and  griddle  in  preventing  sticking  of  the  batter.  If  they  are  too  hot 
they  stick  as  readily  or  more  so  than  if  they  are  not  hot  enough.  Often  they 
are  not  heated  uniformly,  being  too  hot  in  some  portions  and  too  cold  in 
others.  This  is  likely  to  happen  when  a  large  griddle  is  placed  over  a 
small  flame. 

Waffles 

Waffles  may  contain  the  same  ingredients  as  griddle  cakes,  though  egg 
is  never  omitted  as  is  sometimes  the  case  in  the  latter.  The  proportion  of 
flour  may  vary  from  1  to  1^  cups  or  more  per  cup  of  liquid,  depending 
on  the  type  of  waffle  desired  and  the  proportion  of  other  ingredients.  In 
general,  waffles  are  preferable  with  less  flour  than  is  used  in  griddle  cakes, 
1  1/3  cups  to  a  cup  of  liquid  being  a  good  proportion  for  plain  waffles. 
They  also  require  less  baking  powder  than  griddle  cakes. 

In  mixing  waffles  the  egg  whites  may  be  beaten  stiff  and  folded  into  the 
batter  or  the  whole  egg  may  be  beaten  until  foamy  and  added  to  the  batter. 
The  former  method  generally  gives  the  better  results.  The  stiffer  the  batter 
the  shorter  the  mixing  period  should  be,  if  tender  w^affles  are  desired. 

One  quality  that  many  people  desire  in  waffles  is  crispness.  This  depends 
largely  on  the  length  of  time  the  waffle  is  baked.  A  plain  waffle  made  from 
1  1/3  cups  of  flour  needs  to  be  baked  about  4  to  5  minutes,  though  the 
exact  time  depends  upon  the  temperature  maintained  by  the  iron  and  the 
depth  of  batter  the  iron  will  hold.  However,  a  batter  with  a  cup  of  flour 
to  a  cup  of  liquid  needs  to  be  baked  longer,  else  the  waffle  is  limp  and 
soggy  instead  of  crisp.  Stiffer  batters  do  not  need  to  bake  as  long,  but  they 
are  apt  to  give  waffles  that  are  somewhat  bready  and  tough. 

The  rich  waffles,  containing  a  high  percentage  of  fat  and  some  sugar  or 
molasses,  that  are  used  for  shortcakes  or  desserts,  may  be  better  if  baked 
a  little  more  slowly  than  plain  waffles.  Waffles  containing  a  good  deal  of 
sugar  are  often  limp  when  first  taken  from  the  iron,  but  if  baked  long 
enough,  they  become  crisp  in  a  short  time.  Those  that  are  used  for  short- 
cake should  be  baked  long  enough  to  remain  crisp.  Melted  fat  or  oil  added 
to  the  batter  does  away  with  the  necessity  of  greasing  an  electric  waffle 
iron.  However,  if  the  electric  iron  is  too  hot  or  too  cold  the  batter  may 
stick  to  it. 


TUNNELS  465 


Muffins 


The  proportion  of  flour  in  muffins  is  usually  2  cups  to  a  cup  of  liquid. 
For  this  reason,  the  extent  of  mixing  has  more  effect  on  the  structure  of 
the  batter  and  the  finished  muffins  than  in  thin  batters.  The  gluten  with 
this  proportion  of  liquid  is  more  sticky  and  glue-like  than  in  the  thinner 
batters.  It  can  be  attenuated.  Melted  fat  or  an  oil  is  distributed  in  an 
uncooked  muffin  batter  in  the  same  manner  as  in  griddle  cakes. 

Effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  texture  and  appearance.  With 
just  enough  mixing  to  barely  blend  the  ingredients,  30  strokes  or  less,  the 
batter  breaks  and  separates  easily  when  lifted  with  the  spoon,  is  lumpy  and 
not  smooth  in  appearance.  The  top  of  the  baked  mufHn  is  rough,  though 
it  browns  well  and  is  a  little  shiny  and  has  a  glaze.  The  volume  of  the 
muffins  is  good,  its  cells  rather  large  and  uniform  in  size,  and  its  cell 
walls  of  medium  thickness.  The  muffin  is  tender.  This  amount  of  mixing, 
usually  about  25  strokes,  which  can  be  partially  determined  by  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  batter,  is  the  optimum  amount  of  mixing.  It  is  the  amount 
that  is  required  to  just  blend  the  dry  flour  with  the  liquid  ingredients. 
See  Figs.  46  to  48,  muflfins  number  1. 

When  the  mixing  of  the  batter  is  continued  beyond  the  optimum  amount, 
the  appearance  of  the  batter  gradually  changes,  becoming  smoother  and 
less  lumpy.  It  flows  more  readily,  and  as  it  falls  from  the  spoon  it  tends 
to  cling  to  the  spoon,  forming  long  ribbon-like  strands.  The  muffins  also 
change  in  appearance,  texture,  and  volume  with  longer  mixing.  See  muffins 
2  and  3,  Figs.  46  to  48.  The  top  of  the  muflSn  is  less  rounded  and  may 
come  to  a  sharp  point  or  peak.  Its  crust  is  smoother,  browns  less  readily, 
and  becomes  duller  in  appearance  with  less  glaze.  Up  through  the  center 
of  the  muffin  are  found  long  holes,  which  are  called  tunnels,  that  end 
just  below  the  point  at  the  top.  Large  holes  are  often  found  in  muffins  and 
cakes,  caused  by  addition  of  air  in  mixing,  but  tunnels  are  long  and  rather 
narrow.  When  tunnels  develop  the  muffins  are  less  tender.  The  grain  of 
the  muffin  becomes  finer  with  longer  mixing,  the  cell  walls  thinner,  the 
tunnels  more  numerous,  and  the  muffin  is  more  compact.  With  extremely 
long  mixing,  and  particularly  with  phosphate  or  tartrate  baking  powders, 
the  texture  of  the  muffin  may  be  very  soggy,  the  volume  small,  with  few 
tunnels,  the  top  flat  and  very  smooth  in  appearance.  See  muffins  4,  Figs. 
46  to  48. 

Tunnels.  Tunnels  usually  start  at  the  bottom  of  the  muffin  and  con- 
verge near  the  center  at  the  top.  They  are  formed  from  expansion  of 
gas  in  the  dough.  Part  of  this  gas  is  from  steam,  for  if  one  watches  the 
baking  of  muffins  through  a  glass  oven  door,  occasional  small  jets  of  steam 
may  be  seen  to  escape  from  muffins  that  have  been  stirred  sufficiently  so 
that  tunnels  develop.  With  thin  batters  like  popovers,  or  doughs  like  baking 
powder  biscuits,   tunnels  do  not   develop.  When   the  batter   contains   the 


466 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  46. — Muffins.  Showing  effect  on  texture,  volume,  and  shape  when  the  extent 
of  mixing  is  varied  and   a  tartrate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experiment    (82,A,1). 
Approximately  ys  of  the  batter,  60  grams  removed  after  mixing, 

1.  30  strokes. 

2.  60  strokes. 

3.  100  strokes. 

4.  300  strokes. 


TUNNELS 


467 


Fig.  47. — Muffins.  Showing  the  effect  on  texture,  volume,  and  shape  when  the 
extent  of  mixing  is  varied  and  a  phosphate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experiment 
(82,A,2). 

Approximately  %  of  the  batter,  60  grams  removed  after  mixing, 

1.  30  strokes. 

2.  60  strokes. 

3.  100  strokes. 

4.  300  strokes. 


Fig.  48. — Muffins.  Showing  the  effect  on  texture,  volume  and  shape  when  the 
extent  of  mixing  is  varied  and  a  sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experi- 
ment (82,A,3). 

Approximately  ^  of  the  batter,  60  grams  removed  after  mixing, 

1.  30  strokes. 

2.  60  strokes. 

3.  100  strokes. 

4.  300  strokes. 


TUNNELS 


469 


proportion  of  water  that  results  in  a  very  sticky  gluten,  and  the  gluten 
is  attenuated  to  the  point  at  which  it  is  tenacious  and  somewhat  elastic 
like  rubber,  the  batter  drips  from  the  spoon  into  the  muffin  pan  somewhat 


Fig.  49. — Muffins.  Showing  the  effect  of  stirring  the  batter  85  strokes;  then  add- 
ing the  baking  powder  and  stirring  15  additional  strokes.  Compare  with  muffins 
(3)   in  Figs.  46  to  48  mixed  with  100  strokes. 

1.  Tartrate  baking  powder. 

2.  Phosphate  baking  powder. 

3.  Sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder. 


as  shown  in  Fig.  50  at  A.  The  gluten  strands  of  the  batter  are  stretched 
toward  the  point  in  contact  with  the  spoon.  The  manner  or  direction  in 
which  the  tunnels  form  is  partially  dependent  upon  the  way  in  which 
the  gluten  strands  are  stretched  in  mixing  and  in  placing  the  batter  in  the 


470 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


pans.  In  the  baked  muffins  the  tunnels  may  form  as  shown  in  the  cross- 
section  diagram  at  B.  When  the  batter  from  the  end  of  the  spoon  falls 
near  the  edge  of  the  muffin  pan  the  tunnels  may  converge  as  shown  in  C, 
Fig.  50. 

Two  other  factors  that  influence  the  formation  of  tunnels,  though  their 
effect  is  not  always  consistent,  are  depth  of  the  batter  and  the  baking 
temperature.  When  the  batter  is  mixed  just  to  the  verge  of  tunnel  forma- 
tion, the  deeper  the  batter  in  the  pan  the  mort  apt  are  tunnels  to  appear. 
The  effect  of  temperature  is  still  more  variable  than  some  of  the  other 
factors,  but  tunnels  have  been  observed  in  portions  of  a  batter  baked  at 
higher  temperatures,  when  other  portions  baked  at  lower  temperatures  did 
not  have  them  or  they  were  less  numerous. 


Fig.  50. — A.  Cross  section  of  muffin  batter  that  has  been  mixed  until  the  gluten 
is  well  developed,  being  dropped  from   a   spoon  into   a  muffin  pan. 

B.  Direction  of  tunnels  in  baked  muffin. 

C.  Direction  of  tunnels  when  the  point  of  dough  falls  to  one  side  of  the  pan. 

Varying  the  proportion  of  ingredients  in  muffins.  Too  large  a 
proportion  of  flour  or  too  little  liquid  increases  the  tendency  to  form  tunnels, 
even  with  a  small  amount  of  mixing.  If  sugar  and  fat  are  increased  the 
gluten  develops  less  readily,  but  the  effect  is  not  very  great.  The  omission 
of  egg  does  not  change  the  muffin  structure  to  a  very  great  extent,  although 
there  is  less  tendency  for  tunnels  to  form.  The  flavor  of  course  is  different 
if  the  batter  contains  no  egg.  Increasing  the  egg  tends  to  give  a  tougher, 
more  rubbery,  elastic  muffin.  Egg  not  beaten  sufficiently  to  blend  easily 
with  other  ingredients  or  not  mixed  sufficiently  with  the  liquid  may  produce 
a  rather  waxy  texture  with  fairly  thick  cell  walls.  This  texture  is  often 
seen  in  muffins  which  are  not  over-mixed. 

Baking  powder.  The  electrolyte  baking  powder  influences  the  viscosity 
and  tenacity  of  the  batter.  When  a  muffin  batter  that  contains  no  baking 
powder  is  just  mixed,  it  separates  from  the  spoon  without  forming  strands 
and  may  be  described  as  short.  With  longer  mixing  the  batter  becomes 
smoother,  but  there  is  not  as  definite  a  change  as  when  the  baking  powder 
is  in  the  batter  during  mixing.  If  the  baking  powder  is  in  the  batter  during 
all  the  mixing  period  the  batter  is  short  when  just  mixed,  but  after  the 


BISCUITS  471 

baking  powder  has  dissolved,  the  batter  seems  more  tenacious,  and  compact 
with  longer  mixing.  That  the  volume  is  less  is  readily  seen  by  the  weight, 
for  60  grams  of  the  batter  is  greatest  after  just  mixing  and  becomes  less 
with  longer  mixing.  This  is  more  noticeable  with  the  phosphate  or  tartrate 
baking  powders  than  with  the  sulfate-phosphate  ones. 

Fig.  49  shows  muffins  that  have  been  stirred  85  strokes.  Then  the  baking 
powder  was  added  and  stirred  an  additional  15  strokes.  The  knob-like 
protuberances  are  characteristic  of  muffin  batter  that  has  been  mixed  too 
long.  The  tartrate  and  phosphate  powders,  probably  because  of  their  more 
rapid  action  at  room  temperature,  are  less  likely  to  develop  these  knobs. 
However,  the  sulfate-phosphate  powders  with  over-mixing  are  more  likely 
to  develop  these  knobs,  for  less  carbon  dioxide  is  lost  during  mixing,  hence 
more  pressure  is  exerted  during  the  baking. 

The  amount  of  mixing  required  for  the  best  texture  in  muffins,  with  the 
different  types  of  baking  powders,  is  about  the  same,  for  the  batter  can  be 
mixed  only  about  25  strokes  or  a  little  more  with  either  a  rapid-  or  a  slow- 
acting  powder. 

All  the  muffins  in  the  illustrations  contained  the  same  weight  of  batter, 
and  were  baked  in  pans  of  the  same  size.  Thus  the  effect  of  mixing  on 
the  volume  is  shown  by  the  comparative  size  of  the  picture. 

Baking  temperatures  for  muffins.  A  temperature  of  195°  to  210°C. 
is  good  to  use  for  muffins.  A  very  high  temperature  sets  the  crust  before 
the  batter  has  time  to  rise ;  a  very  low  temperature  requires  a  long  time  to 
brown  and  cook  the  muffins. 

Greasing  the  sides  of  the  muffin  pans  lightly  or  not  at  all  aids  expansion 
of  the  dough  in  baking,  as  the  dough  can  cling  more  tenaciously  to  the 
sides  of  the  tin;  but  greasing  the  bottom  of  the  pan  heavily  expedites  the 
removal  of  the  muffins  from  the  tin. 

Standing  before  baking.  All  muffins  and  nut  breads  made  with 
baking  powder,  but  particularly  those  made  with  rapid-acting  powders, 
should  be  mixed  quickly  and  put  into  the  muffin  tins  as  quickly  as  possible 
after  mixing.  This  lessens  the  amount  of  gas  lost.  They  can  stand  in  the 
muffin  tins  for  some  time  before  baking,  because  the  dough  is  stiff  and 
viscous  and,  if  not  cut  across  or  through,  most  of  the  gas  is  retained. 

The  palatability  of  bran  muffins  can  be  improved  by  soaking  the  bran 
in  warm  milk  before  the  flour  and  other  ingredients  are  added,  or  the 
muffins  may  be  allowed  to  stand  for  some  time  after  mixing  and  before 
baking  so  that  the  cellulose  of  the  bran  becomes  better  hydrated  and  thus 
softer. 

Biscuits 

The  using  of  the  proportion  of  liquid  required  by  the  flour  is  one  im- 
portant factor  in  obtaining  a  desirable  texture  in  biscuits.  Since  hydration 
capacity  of  different  flours  varies,  it  is  necessary  to  determine  this  for  the 


472  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

various  brands  and  grades  of  flour.  The  same  brand  of  flour  in  different 
sections  of  the  United  States  is  not  always  from  the  same  kind  of  wheat. 
For  example,  Gold  Medal  flour  in  Iowa  is  an  all-purpose  flour,  but  in 
Alabama  or  Mississippi  it  is  made  from  soft  wheat,  the  type  used  exten- 
sively in  the  southern  states. 

Method  o£  combining  ingredients  for  biscuits.  In  biscuits,  a 
different  method  of  mixing  is  used  from  those  heretofore  considered  in  the 
batter  and  dough  series.  Oil  may  be  used.  Fats  are  not  melted,  and  either 
oil  or  fat  is  added  directly  to  the  flour.  If  a  colored  fat  is  used  it  can  be 
readily  seen  that  the  fat  is  distributed  in  layers  or  pools  and  absorbed  on 
the  surface  of  the  starch  granules.  In  this  dough,  with  its  small  proportion 
of  liquid  and  no  egg,  there  seems  to  be  little  tendency  for  the  fat  to  form 
an  oil-in-water  emulsion. 

Fat  is  added  to  biscuits  to  give  shortness.  It  is  important  in  making 
good  biscuits  to  mix  the  fat  and  flour  suflficiently,  but  not  too  much.  Using 
a  fine,  wired  fat  mixer,  or  rubbing  lightly  between  the  finger  tips,  is  the 
easiest  and  quickest  way  of  mixing  the  fat  with  the  flour.  Some  cooks 
prefer  to  pick  up  a  portion  of  the  fat  and  flour,  letting  it  fall  gradually 
back  into  the  bowl  while  mixing  it.  In  this  way  the  mixture  may  remain 
more  light  and  fluffy,  because  more  air  is  retained.  In  adding  the  liquid  to 
the  mixture  of  fat  and  flour,  a  two-  or  three-tined  fork  is  preferable  to  a 
spoon,  for  the  dough  is  packed  less  during  the  mixing.  Usually  about  25 
to  35  strokes  are  needed  to  combine  the  liquid  and  flour.  With  longer 
stirring  of  the  dough  the  biscuits  stand  up  better  and  the  texture  is  less 
coarse.  The  texture  of  rolled  biscuits  is  improved  by  folding  over  and 
rolling  out  about  4  times,  which  gives  a  very  flaky  texture,  or  by  knead- 
ing a  short  time  in  addition  to  the  stirring.  For  kneaded  biscuits  the  dough 
is  removed  to  a  bread  board  and  kneaded  very  lightly  10  to  20  times. 
Kneading  tends  to  develop  sheets  or  layers  with  a  fine  texture,  which  is 
considered  desirable.  Excess  kneading  toughens  the  dough  more  rapidly 
than  stirring  with  a  fork.  If  the  proportion  of  fat  used  is  large,  or  if  a 
pastry  flour  is  used,  the  mixing  and  kneading  can  be  continued  for  a 
slightly  longer  time.  The  crust  of  biscuits  is  less  crisp  with  longer  mixing 
or  when  they  are  kneaded.  Those  who  prefer  a  very  crisp  crust  may  like 
dropped  biscuits  better  than  kneaded  ones.  See  Experiment  83. 

Beaten  biscuit.  The  beaten  biscuit  of  the  South  is  made  without  the 
addition  of  baking  powder  or  soda.  While  the  dough  is  beaten,  it  is  folded 
over  and  over  so  that  it  contains  air.  Since  the  beating  is  prolonged  the 
gluten  may  be  modified  or  softened  and  becomes  more  tender.  This  is  simi- 
lar to  the  long  mixing  used  by  Swanson  in  modifying  the  gluten  of  bread. 
The  amount  of  beating  to  give  the  best  texture  is  indicated  by  a  Negro 
mammy  when  she  says,  "I  use  300  strokes  for  every  day,  but  when  I'se 
spectin'  company  in,  I  use  500  sure." 

Soft-wheat  flour  and  biscuit.  The  addition  of  calcium  acid  phosphate 
to  soft-wheat  flours  improves  their  quality  for  biscuit.  Alexander  states 
that,  *'It  is  almost  impossible  to  sell  flours  in  some  districts  in  the  South 


PANS  AND  PREPARATION  FOR  BAKING  473 

unless  the  sack  is  marked  'Phosphate  added.'  "  The  acid  calcium  phosphate 
is  acid  in  reaction.  It  has  a  pH  of  about  4.0.  Alexander  states,  *'We  know 
that  the  gluten  proteins  tend  to  imbibe  water,  and  disperse  in  a  weakly 
alkaline  medium,  so  that  a  slightly  alkaline  dough  is  sticky.  Excess  alkali 
in  dough  produces  a  yellow  color  and  a  soapy  taste." 

Alexander  reports  that  dough  quality,  biscuit  volume,  crumb,  texture, 
and  color  are  improved  by  treating  soft-wheat  flour  with  0.5  per  cent 
calcium  acid  phosphate.  Logue  and  Ranker  have  reported  results  similar 
to  those  of  Alexander. 

Smith  and  Bailey  have  reported  **The  Effect  of  Chemical  Leavening 
Agents  on  the  Properties  of  Bread."  Their  conclusions,  in  part,  for  the 
biscuits  and  their  experimental  work  follow.  "Gluten  properties,  including 
elasticity  and  hydration  capacity,  are  affected  by  baking  powder,  and  by 
the  residual  salts  resulting  from  the  chemical  reaction  of  baking  powder 
ingredients. 

''Disodium  phosphate,  the  residual  salt  resulting  from  the  reaction  of 
monosodium  phosphate  baking  powder,  afifects  gluten  more  than  the  resi- 
dues from  other  types  of  baking  powders." 

Cakes 

Cake  recipes  are  legion  in  number,  but  the  underlying  principles  for 
making  cakes  containing  a  fat  are  similar,  though  some  variation  must  be 
made  for  different  recipes,  depending  upon  the  particular  ingredients  and 
their  proportion. 

Cakes  containing  fat  may  be  divided  into  two  classes.  First,  the  pound 
cake  type,  based  on  the  old  recipe,  which  is  one  pound  each  of  butter,  sugar, 
eggs,  and  flour,  and  in  which  no  baking  powder  or  soda  is  used,  the  light- 
ness of  the  cake  depending  upon  the  expansion  of  moisture  from  the  eggs 
and  butter  and  the  air  incorporated  in  creaming  and  in  the  beaten  eggs. 
Second,  the  cup  or  layer  cake  types  that  contain  rather  small  percentages 
of  fat  and  sugar,  in  which  the  lightness  depends  largely  upon  added  baking 
powder.  Between  these  rich  and  lean  type  formulas  are  many  transitions. 

One  desirable  quality  in  cake  is  a  certain  texture,  often  called  velveti- 
ness.  Velvetiness  implies  softness  to  the  touch,  but  to  obtain  this  softness  it 
is  necessary  to  have  a  definite  amount  of  moisture,  else  the  texture  is  too 
dry  or  too  soggy.  However,  the  proportion  of  liquid  is  not  the  only  factor 
in  developing  velvetiness ;  the  proportion  of  other  ingredients  and  how  they 
are  handled  are  also  important.  A  good  cake  should  have  a  fine,  even  grain, 
with  thin  cell  walls,  and  should  not  be  powdery  or  crumbly.  It  should 
have  a  good  flavor. 

Pans  and  preparation  for  baking.  The  cake  tends  to  expand  to  a 
better  volume  if  the  sides  of  the  cake  pans  are  not  greased.  But  a  piece  of 
wax  or  other  suitable  paper,  cut  to  fit  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  greased 
on  the  side  next  to  the  batter,  facilitates  removal  of  the  cake  from  the  pan. 

The  depth  of  batter  in  the  pan  also  influences  the  texture  of  the  cake, 


474 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


so  that  if  a  finer,  more  velvety  texture  is  desired,  the  size  of  the  pan  should 
be  such  that  the  batter  is  at  least  1  inch  or  lyi  inches  in  depth. 

Another  factor  affecting  the  texture  of  the  cake,  and  more  than  might 
be  expected,  is  the  slope  of  the  sides  of  the  pans,  straighter  sides  resulting 
in  better  textures. 

Baking  cakes.  Temperatures  for  bakings.  Cakes  containing  fat  are 
baked  over  a  wide  range  of  temperature,  from  below   100°  to  over  210° 


155 


165°  175°  185°  195° 

Oven  Temperature  -  °C. 
Fig.   51. — The  effect  of  baking  temperature  on  the  vohime  of   plain  cake,  when 
three  types  of  baking  powder  were  used,  sulfate-phosphate   (combination),  tartrate, 
and   phosphate.    (Stone) 


being  used.  For  instance,  fruit  cake  may  be  steamed  at   100' 


baked  in 


the  oven  from  below   100°C.  to  over   175°C. 

No  very  definite  information  was  available  as  to  what  temperatures 
were  preferable  for  baking  cakes  when  using  one  of  the  three  common 
types  of  baking  powder.  Theoretically,  it  seemed  possible  that  a  powder 
that  released  its  gas  rapidly  at  room  temperature  should  be  baked  at  a  higher 
temperature  than  a  powder  that  gave  off  its  gas  more  slowly.  Stone  investi- 
gated the  effect  of  varying  the  baking  temperature  on  the  volume  and 
scores  for  plain  cake.  She  used  Formula  I,  with  flour  reduced  to  284  grams 
and  the  amount  of  baking  powder  found  to  be  optimum  by  McLean,  or 


BAKING  CAKES 


475 


8,  10,  and  12  grams  of  sulfate-phosphate  (combination),  tartrate,  and 
phosphate,  respectively.  The  cakes  for  any  one  series  were  always  mixed 
together  and  the  batter  divided  into  five  equal  parts  by  weight.  Hence,  any 
variation  in  the  volume,  texture,  velvetiness,  and  eating  quality  for  a  set 
of  five  cakes  was  caused  by  the  baking  temperature.  The  time  of  baking 
was  necessarily  shorter  as  the  oven  temperature  increased.  The  cakes  were 


155° 


195° 


165°  175°  185° 

Oven  Temperature  -°C. 
Fig.  52. — The  effect  of  baking  temperature  on  the  average  cake  scores  for  plain 
cake  when  three  types  of  baking  powder  were  used.    (Stone) 

baked  in  loaf  pans,  one-fourth  the  recipe  being  used  for  each  cake.  The 
volume  was  determined  by  seed  displacement.  The  effect  of  baking  tempera- 
ture on  cake  volume  is  shown  in  Fig.  51.  For  the  particular  formula  and 
amount  of  baking  powder  used  the  optimum  baking  temperature  for  all 
three  types  of  baking  powder  was  185°C.  (365°F.). 

The  total  scores,  which  were  the  sum  of  scores  for  texture,  tenderness, 
velvetiness,  and  eating  quality,  were  affected  by  the  baking  temperature. 
These  results  are  shown  in  Fig.  52. 

The  texture  and  velvetiness  of  the  cakes  varied  with  the  different  baking 
temperatures.  Heat  penetration  of  the  cake  batter  is  of  course  slower  at 
the  lower  temperatures.  The  cakes  baked  at  the  lower  temperature  had 
thicker  cell  walls,  coarser,  more  harsh,  less  velvety  texture,  and  were  alto- 


476 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


gether  less  desirable.  The  small  volume  and  poor  texture  at  the  lower 
temperature  are  undoubtedly  caused  by  the  cake  batter's  not  coagulating 
quickly  enough  in  relation  to  the  rate  of  gas  formation.  In  other  words, 
as  the  gas  formed  the  temperature  was  not  high  enough  to  coagulate  the 


600 


580 


560 


c 
«540 

> 

^520 

u 


500 


480 


460 


1-'-'" 

/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

:ipeB 

\ 

/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 
) 

J 

p 

,.'^ 

c.'-' 

/ 

/ 

r 

> 

y 

/Recii 

3eA 

/ 

J 

^ 

/ 

r^^ 

165° 


215"* 


175°  185°  195°  205° 

Oven  Temperature  -  C. 
Fig.  53, — The  effect  of  baking  temperature  upon  the  volume  of  a  rich   (Recipe  A) 
and   a  less  rich    (Recipe  B)   chocolate  cake.  With  exception  of  lowest  and   highest 
temperatures  for  Recipe  B,  each  point  on  the  graph  is  an  average   of  scores  of  5 
judges  for  12  cakes.   (Rogosheski  and  Bernds) 

egg  and  flour  proteins,  with  the  result  that  more  than  the  optimum  amount 
of  gas  escaped  and  more  than  the  optimum  amount  of  agitation  occurred 
within  the  cake  before  coagulation  started.  For,  as  gas  is  produced  its 
expansion  agitates  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  the  cake  batter.  And  if  this 
agitation  is  continued  too  long  before  the  crumb  is  coagulated,  coarse 
textures  result.  With  increase  in  the  baking  temperature  the  eating  quality 
improved,  the  texture  became  finer  and  softer,  the  volume  greater.  Above 


BAKING  CAKES 


477 


185°C.  the  cake  became  more  compact  because  the  crust  formed  too  rapidly, 
although  the  texture  was  still  velvety. 

Sugar  content  and  baking  temperature.  It  is  known  that  sugar  is  a  good 
peptizer  of  egg  proteins  and  elevates  the  coagulation  temperature  of  egg 
proteins.  It  is  also  possible  that  sugar  may  affect  the  coagulation  tempera- 
ture of  the  flour  proteins.  From  a  few  isolated  observations  some  evidence 
has  accumulated  indicating  that  the  higher  the  sugar  content  the  higher 
the  baking  temperature  should  be  for  cake.  But  the  work  has  not  progressed 
far  enough  at  present  to  draw  definite  conclusions. 

100 


95 


90 


85 


80 


75 


70 


/ 

Recif 

&a/ 

„--" 

1 

^y 

Y 

/ 

/ 

peB 

N 

r 

165° 


175°  185°  195°  205° 

Oven  Temperature '   C. 


215° 


Fig.  54. — The  effect  of  baking  temperature  upon  scores  of  a  rich  (Recipe  A)  and 
a  less  rich  (Recipe  B)  chocolate  cake.  (Rogosheski  and  Bernds) 

Baking  temperatures  for  chocolate  cake.  Rogosheski  and  Bernds  used 
two  chocolate  cake  recipes,  one  a  very  rich  cake  {A),  the  formula  for 
which  is  given  in  the  laboratory  outline,  Experiment  85A.  The  other  recipe 
{B)  was  identically  like  Recipe  A  except  one-fourth  cup  less  of  butter  and 
of  sugar  were  used.  The  batter  for  one  series  of  cakes  was  divided,  250 
grams  being  weighed  into  each  pan. 

The  effect  of  baking  temperature  upon  cake  volume  is  shown  in  Fig.  53, 
the  richer  cake  giving  a  smaller  volume  than  Recipe  B.  But  for  both  recipes 
the  volume  increased  with  higher  baking  temperatures.  The  relation  of 
baking  temperatures  to  total  scores  is  shown  in  Fig.  54. 

The  results  should  be  taken  as  suggestive  rather  than  final,  for  only 
small  loaf  cakes  were  used.  But  since  the  texture  and  eating  quality  im- 
prove and  the  velvetiness  of  the  crumb  increases  progressively  with  increase 


478  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

of  oven  temperature  up  to  205  °C.,  it  suggests  that  there  has  been  too 
much  tendency  to  sacrifice  texture  for  the  appearance  and  shape  of  the  top 
of  the  cake. 

The  shape  of  the  top  and  the  way  the  cake  shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the 
pan  are  characteristic  for  each  temperature.  During  the  last  of  the  baking 
period  and  cooling,  the  cake  baked  at  the  lowest  temperature  shrinks  the 
most,  both  in  height  and  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  As  the  oven  tempera- 
ture is  elevated,  the  shrinking  progressively  decreases,  until  none  occurs  in 
cakes  baked  at  195°  C. 

At  the  lowest  temperature  the  top  of  the  cake  was  level  or  had  a  slight 
depression  in  the  center.  As  the  baking  temperature  increased  the  top 
became  rounded  until  at  the  highest  temperature  the  top  punched  up  in  the 
middle  entirely  too  much  for  a  good  appearance.  There  was  a  tendency  for 
the  cakes  baked  at  205°  and  particularly  at  215°  to  become  too  brown  on 
the  edges.  If  these  factors  as  well  as  eating  quality  are  taken  into  con- 
sideration, the  preferable  baking  temperature  for  these  formulas  appears  to 
be  from  195°  to  205°C.   (Approximately  385°  to  400°F.) 

Schaal  suggests  that  for  bakers'  chocolate  cakes  380°F.  is  a  good  baking 
temperature.  He  says,  "Bake  the  goods  until  they  are  just  barely  done. 
It  is  a  mistake  to  overbake,  since  overbaking  impairs  the  flavor  just  as 
much  as  a  flashy  oven,  or  an  oven  at  too  high  a  temperature." 

The  oven  temperature  at  start  of  baking.  Peet  and  Lowe  baked  plain 
cake  (Formula  I)  from  a  cold  and  preheated  start  in  three  electric,  two 
gas,  and  one  kerosene  range.  The  twelve  cakes  were  mixed  at  one  time  on 
an  Institutional  Hobart  mixer.  Equal  amounts  of  batter  were  weighed 
into  the  8-inch  square  pans  immediately  after  mixing.  One-half  the  recipe 
was  used  for  each  cake.  The  batter  baked  in  the  preheated  ovens  stood  in 
the  pans  while  that  started  in  the  cold  ovens  was  baking.  Since  a  sulfate- 
phosphate  baking  powder  was  used,  it  was  thought  the  standing  w^as  less 
serious  for  the  tests  than  to  use  different  mixes.  The  ovens  were  all  set  to 
maintain  a  temperature  of  185°C.,  once  this  temperature  was  reached. 

The  cakes  started  in  the  preheated  ovens  were  superior  in  texture,  velveti- 
ness,  and  eating  quality  to  those  started  in  cold  ovens.  In  scoring  the  cakes 
the  judges  found  no  significant  differences  in  cakes  baked  in  different 
ranges. 

The  volumes  of  cakes  baked  in  different  ranges  varied,  the  differences 
being  highly  significant.  But  there  was  no  significant  variation  in  the  vol- 
ume of  cakes  baked  in  the  same  range  from  a  cold  and  a  preheated  start. 

The  texture  of  the  cakes  baked  from  a  cold  start  resembled  that  of  cakes 
baked  at  lower  temperatures  in  Stone's  study. 

Temperature  for  removing  cake  from  the  pan.  Cakes  containing  fat  have 
not  been  given  much  care  in  cooling,  but  Glabau  has  reported  that  the 
cake  should  not  be  removed  from  the  pan  nor  handled  until  the  interior 
temperature  of  the  cake  has  reached  140°F.  This  time  varies  somewhat 
with  the  thickness  of  the  cake  and  the  room  temperature  but  is  about  15 
minutes  or  longer.  When  cakes  are  first  removed  from  the  oven  the  struc- 


INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  CAKES  479 

ture  is  fragile.  With  cooling  the  critical  time  for  handling  passes  and  the 
cake  becomes  sufficiently  rigid  to  withstand  the  shock  of  handling. 

Ingredients  used  in  cakes.  Flour.  In  general,  soft-wheat  flours  give 
better  results  than  bread  flour  in  cakes.  Very  tender  cakes  and  cakes  of 
excellent  texture  are  obtained  by  using  specially  prepared  cake  flours.  All- 
purpose  flours  give  good  results  in  the  plain  cake  recipe  of  the  laboratory 
outline.  In  the  cake  recipes  in  the  laboratory  outline  only  100  grams  of 
all-purpose  flour  are  used  for  a  cup.  The  smaller  weight  of  flour  per  cup 
reduces  the  total  gluten  in  the  cake.  Sometimes  about  2  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch  are  substituted  for  2  tablespoons  of  flour  in  a  cup  of  bread  flour. 
This  also  lessens  the  percentage  of  gluten  and  the  gluten  strength  of  the 
flour,  but  too  much  cornstarch  is  likely  to  produce  too  dry  and  too  powdery 
a  crumb,  and  the  cake  does  not  keep  so  well;  nor  does  adding  cornstarch 
render  the  granule  size  fine  and  uniform. 

Patterson  emphasizes  the  importance  of  uniform  grinding  of  the  flour 
used  for  cake,  so  that  the  particles  are  as  nearly  of  the  same  size  as  possi- 
ble. He  thinks  the  uniformity  of  the  particles  of  flour  aids  in  attaining 
uniform  cells  in  the  cake.  He  states  that  in  an  ideal  cake  the  gas  cells  should 
expand  to  about  1/16  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  and  at  this  point  they  should 
rupture  slightly,  allowing  the  gas  to  escape.  He  also  emphasizes  the  im- 
portance of  gluten  development  on  the  structure  of  the  cake. 

Fat.  Butter  is  preferable  in  cakes  because  of  its  flavor,  the  rich,  full- 
flavored,  but  not  rancid,  being  better  than  the  mild.  Oils  and  melted  fats 
can  be  used  in  cakes,  but  the  texture  is  not  as  good  as  when  fats  that  can 
be  creamed  are  used.  Creaming  is  forming  a  foam  by  incorporating  air 
bubbles  in  a  fat  by  stirring.  Creaming  fat  is  somewhat  similar  to  beating 
eggs  or  egg  whites,  in  that  the  enclosed  air  later  aids  in  leavening.  Air  is 
enclosed  in  the  fat  more  rapidly  after  some  sugar  is  added,  hence  creaming 
is  usually  done  by  adding  the  sugar  to  the  fat,  either  gradually  during  the 
creaming  process,  or  all  at  one  time.  The  sugar  adsorbs  a  portion  of  the 
fat  on  its  surface  and  is  suspended  in  the  fat.  If,  as  suggested  in  the  chap- 
ter on  meats,  adsorption  of  fat  at  an  interface  renders  it  softer  and  more 
plastic  than  when  not  adsorbed  at  the  same  temperature,  a  suggestion  is 
given  for  better  creaming  after  the  sugar  is  added.  In  addition  the  sugar 
crystals  aid  in  supporting  the  fat  in  the  walls  around  the  air  bubbles  in 
much  the  same  manner  as  the  fat  globules  in  whipped  cream.  See  Fig.  31. 
For  a  fat  to  cream  or  form  a  foam  it  must  have  some  body,  for  if  it  is  too 
warm  so  that  it  is  partially  or  entirely  melted  it  does  not  cream.  On  the 
other  hand,  a  fat  that  is  hard  and  brittle  and  not  plastic  does  not  cream 
well.  The  hard  fats  like  tallow  with  high  melting  points  are  not  desirable  in 
cakes.  They  do  not  cream  well  and  on  account  of  their  hardness  after  the 
cake  has  cooled,  they  impart  a  firm,  crumbly  texture. 

Minard  and  Myers  both  found  that  the  texture  of  the  fat  is  important 
in  relation  to  creaming  quality  and  in  obtaining  velvety  texture  in  cakes. 
By  the  rate  of  cooling  a  fat  after  it  is  melted,  its  texture  can  be  controlled 
so  that  it  is  very  waxy  and  firm,  soft  and  smooth,  or  granular  with  a  lot  of 


480  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

separated  oil.  Minard  found  the  very  firm,  waxy  lard  did  not  cream  well. 
Myers  found  a  soft,  smooth  lard  creamed  best,  butter  ranked  second,  and 
grainy  or  granular  lard  was  poorest. 

Since  any  fat  tends  to  become  harder  at  low  temperatures  and  softer 
at  higher  temperatures,  there  is  a  range  at  which  each  fat  creams  best. 
Martin  used  hydrogenated  lard,  Crisco,  44  lards  of  varying  softness  and 
firmness,  and  butter.  The  initial  temperature  of  all  the  fats  at  start  of 
creaming  was  24°  to  25 °C.  All  creamed  fairly  well  at  this  temperature, 
though  in  general  they  tended  to  cream  better  at  higher  temperatures.  In 
general  the  volume  was  decreasingly  smaller  in  the  order  named.  A  low 
initial  room  temperature  retarded  creaming.  Creaming  tends  to  elevate 
the  temperature  of  the  creaming  mass,  probably  from  friction,  though  the 
butter  usually  shows  an  initial  drop  in  temperature.  For  optimum  creaming 
the  firmer  fats  require  a  higher  temperature  than  25 °C.  The  hydrogenated 
lard  creams  well  at  30°C.  or  above  this  temperature,  creaming  the  best  of 
any  fat  tried  on  hot  days.  Optimum  creaming  temperatures  for  fats  com- 
monly used  are  24°  to  29°C.  (about  75°  to  85°F.).  In  the  studies  of  fats 
in  relation  to  their  use  in  cake  at  Iowa  State  College  a  highly  significant 
correlation  between  the  volume  of  the  creamed  mixture  and  their  tempera- 
ture has  been  obtained,  which  indicates  the  volume  of  the  creamed  mixture 
is  related  to  its  temperature,  as  expected. 

Butter  varies  in  creaming  ability.  Bakers  usually  report  that  it  gives 
a  poor  creaming  volume.  Jenkins  used  three  winter  butters  with  Crisco  as 
a  control.  She  used  Formula  I  with  8.4  grams  of  a  tartrate  baking  powder 
for  the  full  recipe.  The  butters  were  prepared  in  January  by  the  Dairy 
Department.  The  same  batch  of  cream  was  used  for  the  three  butters,  but 
portions  were  churned  when  the  serum  acidity  was  0.2,  0.4,  and  0.6  per 
cent.  This  gave  butters  with  acid  numbers  of  1.20,  1.40,  and  1.70,  re- 
spectively. The  acid  number  of  the  Crisco  was  0.10.  The  creaming  volume 
was  least  from  the  butter  of  intermediate  acidity,  greatest  from  the  most 
acid  butter,  and  the  other  two  fats  gave  practically  the  same  volume.  It  is 
rather  interesting  that,  regardless  of  creaming  volume,  the  final  volume  of 
all  the  cakes  increased  with  an  increase  in  temperature  of  mixing.  The  final 
average  volumes  of  the  cakes  were  very  similar.  But  the  fat  giving  the 
greatest  creaming  volume  does  not  seem  always  to  yield  the  greatest  cake 
volume.  The  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed  had  more  effect  on 
the  final  volume  than  did  the  creamed  volume  of  the  fat.  No  indication  of 
the  effect  of  variation  in  composition  of  butter  on  creaming  volume  was 
obtained.  The  composition  of  butter  varies  with  the  season  of  the  year  and 
with  the  locality  in  which  it  is  produced.  Graham  using  summer  butters 
obtained  results  that  were  very  similar  to  those  of  Jenkins,  but  the  cakes 
had  smaller  volumes.  It  may  seem  rather  strange  that  there  is  no  close  cor- 
relation between  the  volume  of  the  creamed  mixture  and  the  volume  of  the 
cake.  But  studies  tend  to  show  this.  Both  Martin  and  Buel  obtained  non- 
significant correlations  between  these  two  factors.  Martin  obtained  a  nega- 
tive correlation  which,  although  not  significant,  tended  to  show  that,  for 


METHODS  OF  MIXING  CAKES  481 

4  fats  out  of  5,  smaller  cake  volumes  were  obtained  with  larger  creaming 
volumes.  Minard  obtained  significant,  negative  correlation  for  these  two 
factors  showing  that  in  her  studies  cake  volume  was  smaller  when  the 
creamed  volume  was  large.  The  fats  studied  in  these  investigations  have 
included  several  types  of  lard,  butter,  hydrogenated  lard,  and  Crisco,  though 
the  studies  with  the  last  fat  were  not  extensive.  From  her  results,  Martin 
suggested  that  there  may  be  for  each  fat  a  point  short  of  maximum  cream- 
ing volume,  at  which  the  creaming  process  should  be  stopped  in  order  to 
produce  a  cake  of  maximum  volume. 

But  what  Martin  calls  creaming  quality  is  important  and  is  closely  re- 
lated to  velvety  texture  and  high  scores  for  cakes.  By  a  good  creaming 
quality  is  meant  that  a  soft,  spongy,  not  too  frothy,  not  a  granular,  lumpy, 
or  pasty  texture  is  obtained.  In  other  words,  there  is  a  particular  body  and 
texture  in  the  creamed  mass  rather  difficult  to  describe  that  is  related  to 
excellent  textures  in  cake. 

Sugar.  Granulated  sugar  is  most  commonly  used.  Finely  granulated 
sugars  dissolve  more  readily  than  coarse  ones.  Minton  states  that,  the  finer 
the  granulation  size,  provided  it  is  a  natural  granulation  obtained  in  the 
refinery  and  not  a  powdered  or  crushed  sugar,  the  better  the  creaming 
quality.  The  Bakery  Research  Department  of  Procter  &  Gamble  Company 
also  state  that  the  fine  crystal  that  has  a  glossy  surface,  and  is  not  made 
by  grinding  or  crushing,  gives  better  creaming  volume  than  the  coarse 
sugars.  Brown  sugar,  because  of  its  flavor,  is  often  used  in  cake.  It  is  pref- 
erable to  substitute  it  by  weight  rather  than  by  measure. 

The  transformed  sugar,  with  its  irregular  surface  which  holds  much  air, 
should  not  only  carry  air  into  the  batter,  but  many  films  of  fat. 

Liquid.  Water  or  fruit  juices  may  be  used  for  the  liquid  in  cake.  When 
water  is  substituted  for  an  equal  weight  of  milk,  a  more  moist  cake  is 
obtained.  Milk  contains  about  12  to  13  per  cent  solids. 

Baking  powder.  Patterson  states  that  unless  the  cake  cells  are  very  fine 
and  uniform  a  very  fine  baking  powder  should  be  used,  so  that  small  bub- 
bles are  formed.  With  many  large  bubbles  of  gas  formed  at  the  same  time, 
the  cell  walls  may  be  subjected  to  too  great  a  pressure  and  collapse,  pro- 
ducing a  fallen  cake. 

Any  of  the  different  types  of  baking  powder  can  be  used  in  cakes.  The 
main  discussion  of  the  use  of  baking  powder  in  cake  is  given  later  in  the 
chapter  under  "Variation  of  Proportion  of  Ingredients." 

Eggs.  Eggs  vary  so  in  size  that  they  should  be  weighed  for  experimental 
work.  As  previously  stated,  eggs  beat  up  more  quickly  and  to  a  better 
volume  if  they  are  not  too  cold,  so  that  it  is  preferable  to  have  them  room 
rather  than  refrigerator  temperature. 

Methods  o£  mixing  cakes.  There  are  many  methods  by  which  cakes 
may  be  mixed.  Some  old  cake  recipe  directions  state  to  mix  the  fat  with 
the  flour.  The  sugar  is  next  added  and  lastly  the  eggs  and  milk.  This 
old  method  may  give  very  good  cake.  In  all  the  batter  and  dough  products 
that  have  thus  far  been  considered,  with  the  exception  of  cream  puffs,  the 


482  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

proportion  of  fat  is  usually  smaller  than  in  cakes.  The  method  of  mixing 
cream  puffs  is  to  melt  the  fat.  It  is  also  a  common  practise,  except  for 
biscuit,  to  melt  the  fat  for  the  other  dough  and  batter  products.  These 
same  methods  of  mixing  are  used  for  cakes,  but  a  new  method  is  introduced, 
one  in  which  a  foam  is  formed  with  the  fat.  Certain  procedures  of  mixing 
are  designated  by  various  names,  but  each  of  these  methods  may  have  many 
variations. 

Conventional  method.  By  the  conventional  method  the  fat  and  sugar  are 
creamed  until  the  mixture  becomes  lighter  in  color,  spongy  and  fluffy  in 
texture.  Fig.  55  is  a  photomicrograph  of  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  The 
irregular,  large,  and  intermediate-sized  spheres  are  sugar  crystals  with  an 
adsorbed  layer  of  fat.  It  was  difficult  at  first  to  decide  whether  the  smaller 
rounded  crystals  were  air  bubbles  or  sugar.  This  was  determined,  as  is  often 
the  case  in  experimental  work,  by  accident.  In  using  a  microprojector  to 
show  slides  made  from  colored  creamed  fats  to  a  class  the  heat  filter  was 
forgotten.  After  a  few  seconds  the  heat  from  the  light  used  in  the  projector 
melted  the  fat  on  the  slide.  One  could  watch  the  air  bubbles  burst  on  the 
screen.  The  remaining  particles  after  the  fat  w^as  melted  were  sugar  crys- 
tals. Many  of  the  air  bubbles  show  in  the  picture  as  small,  white  circles  with 
a  very  light  gray  line  around  them,  and  are  hardly  discernible  at  this  mag- 
nification. This  strong  adsorption  of  the  fat  at  the  surface  of  sugar  crystals 
and  at  the  interface  of  air  bubbles  and  a  liquid  is  typical  and  is  one  means 
of  distributing  the  fat  throughout  the  batter. 

It  seems  to  make  little  difference  in  the  final  product  if  the  fat  is  stirred 
for  a  short  period  and  the  sugar  is  then  added  gradually,  or  whether  the 
sugar  and  fat  are  combined  and  then  creamed,  but  air  is  incorporated  more 
rapidly  after  the  sugar  is  added.  However,  creaming  by  hand  is  easier  and 
more  rapid  if  the  sugar  is  added  graduallv  because  the  mixture  is  not  so 
stiff. 

In  the  conventional  method  the  whole  egg  is  creamed  with  the  sugar  and 
fat  or  only  the  yolk  is  incorporated  during  creaming  and  the  beaten  w^hite 
is  added  to  the  batter.  Not  as  much  air  can  be  introduced  into  the  creamed 
mass  if  only  the  yolk  is  used,  but  this  is  compensated  for  in  the  cake  vol- 
ume by  the  air  incorporated  in  the  beaten  white.  Under  some  conditions 
there  may  be  advantages  in  adding  the  beaten  egg  white  last.  Just  as  good 
texture  is  produced  if  the  beaten  white  is  stirred  rapidly  into  the  batter 
as  when  folded.  The  texture  is  also  good  if  the  beaten  white  is  added  and 
stirred  in  with  the  flour  and  milk.  Considering  time,  effort,  and  the  cake 
texture,  there  is  often  no  advantage  in  separating  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the 
egg  for  plain  cake. 

Fig.  56  is  a  photomicrograph  of  the  creamed  butter-sugar-egg  batter 
after  the  egg  has  been  added.  Since  more  of  the  sugar  goes  into  solution 
the  sugar  crystals  become  smaller  after  the  egg  is  added.  Many  of  the 
sugar  crystals  are  larger  than  those  shown  in  this  particular  field,  as  will  be 
noticed  when  the  photomicrograph  of  the  batter  is  observed. 


METHODS  OF  MIXING  CAKES 


483 


Fig.  55. — Photomicrograph  of  thoroughly  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  The  butter 
is  stained  and  shows  black  in  the  picture.  Note  the  rounding  of  the  sugar  crystals 
and  adsorption  of  fat  at  their  surface.  Magnification  approximately  x  100. 


Mo  '  »i^"     ..  ^.'«     i^  s  " 


C  i 


.% 


.1 


-4^^^J^JC 


Fig.  56. — Same  as  Fig.  55  after  the  addition  of  beaten  egg  and  thoroughly  cream- 
ing. The  sugar  crystals  are  smaller  due  to  water  from  egg  partially  dissolving  the 
sugar.  Note  the  many  numerous  small  air  bubbles.  Most  of  them  show  white,  but 
many  show  a  thin  gray  line,  which  is  the  fat  at  the  interface  of  the  air,  butter- 
egg-sugar  mixture.  Magnification  approximately  x   100. 


484 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  57. — Cake  made  by  method  of  mixing  shown  In  Figs.   55,   56,   and   58.  The 
flour  and  milk  were  added  alternately  In  thirds  with  a  total  of  225  strokes. 


Fig.  58. — Photomicrograph  of  cake  batter.  Same  as  Figs.  55  and  56  after  flour 
and  milk  are  added.  There  are  many  large  sugar  crystals  In  this  field.  The  sugar 
crystals  and  gas  bubbles  with  their  adsorbed  layer  of  fat  are  grouped  rather 
uniformly.  The  air  bubbles  do  not  show  at  this  magnification.  If  berry  sugar  is 
used  Instead  of  the  coarser  granulated  sugar  used  in  this  illustration,  the  sugar 
crystals  are  smaller  and  more  numerous,  the  cake  texture  Improved.  Magnification 
approximately  x  100. 

The  Bakery  Research  Department  of  Procter  &  Gamble  Company  have 
reported  that  better  results  are  obtained  if  the  eggs  are  added  gradually 
during  5  minutes,  after  the  sugar  and  fat  have  previously  been  creamed  5 


METHODS  OF  MIXING  CAKES  485 

minutes,  and  the  creaming  is  continued  for  a  total  of  20  minutes  with  a 
mixer.  They  state  that  if  the  eggs  are  added  after  the  butter  and  sugar  are 
thoroughly  creamed  there  is  a  tendency  to  break  down  the  creamed  mass. 

The  flour  and  milk  may  be  added  to  the  creamed  mixture  as  follows: 
(1)  all  added  at  one  time,  (2)  flour  added  first  and  last,  (3)  milk  added 
first  and  last,  and  (4)  part  of  the  flour  and  part  of  the  milk  added  at  the 
same  time.  Often  the  statement  is  given  in  directions  for  mixing  cakes  that 
a  portion  of  flour  should  be  added  first  and  last  to  the  creamed  mixture, 
as  the  liquid  tends  to  cause  separation  of  the  creamed  mass.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  Bakery  Research  Department  of  Procter  &  Gamble  give  for  the 
method  of  mixing  after  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  have  been  creamed,  "to 
add  two-thirds  of  the  milk  and  mix  it  with  just  a  few  turns  of  the  beater. 
Then  the  dry  ingredients  may  be  added  and  mixed  in,  using  low  speed. 
After  the  mixture  is  quite  smooth,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  slowly 
and  continue  the  mixing  until  the  dough  is  thoroughly  mixed  and  very 
uniform."  Judged  from  laboratory  results,  the  first  method  is  less  likely 
to  give  an  excellent  texture,  but  all  the  others  may  give  very  fine  even 
grain  and  velvety  texture.  Adding  milk  first  and  last  is  the  quickest  and 
easiest  method. 

Fig.  58  is  a  photomicrograph  of  the  creamed  butter-sugar-egg  mixture 
shown  in  Figs.  55  and  56  after  the  flour  and  milk  are  added.  All  the  photo- 
micrographs are  from  the  recipe  in  which  1^  cups  of  sugar  were  used. 
The  flour  and  milk  were  added  alternately  in  thirds,  and  a  total  of  225 
strokes  was  used  for  mixing.  In  this  picture  the  sugar  crystals  are  shown 
with  an  adsorbed  layer  of  fat.  In  the  background  are  the  starch  granules 
of  the  flour  and  some  very  thin  films  of  fat  that  do  not  show  very  well  with 
this  magnification.  The  sugar  crystals  have  a  tendency  to  form  in  clusters. 
Fig.  57  shows  the  cake  made  by  this  method.  The  cakes  shown  in  Figs.  57, 
63,  and  64  were  baked  in  larger  pans  than  the  cakes  shown  in  other  illus- 
trations and  so  cannot  be  compared  on  the  basis  of  size.  All  the  ingredients 
for  these  cakes  were  room  temperature  when  mixed.  Fig.  59  shows  a  con- 
trast in  creaming  to  Figs.  55,  56,  and  58.  The  sugar  and  butter  were 
stirred  10  strokes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  the  slightly  beaten  egg  was 
added  and  stirred  7  strokes.  The  flour  and  milk,  Fig.  60,  were  added  in  the 
same  manner  as  for  Fig.  58.  Fig.  63  shows  the  cake  made  from  the 
partially  creamed  mixture. 

Muffin  method.  By  this  method  the  beaten  egg,  the  melted  fat,  and 
liquid  are  combined.  All  the  dry  ingredients  are  combined  and  added  to  the 
liquid  ones.  The  advantage  of  this  method  is  that  the  batter  can  be  mixed 
in  a  short  time.  If  the  milk,  eggs,  and  flour  are  not  cool  enough  to  partially 
solidify  the  fat,  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  is  formed  of  part  or  all  of  the 
fat,  and  the  texture  of  the  cake  is  not  as  velvety,  nor  is  it  as  tender,  as  by 
some  other  methods  of  mixing.  When  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  forms  in  a 
batter,  the  batter  remains  smooth  and  does  not  contain  flecks  or  small  curds. 

Cake-mixer  method.  This  method  has  several  different  names,  and  as  in 


486 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  59. — Photomicrograph  of  partially  creamed  butter,  sugar  and  egg.  Magnifi- 
cation approximately  x  100. 


Fig.  60. — Same  as  Fig.  59  after  the  addition  of  the  flour  and  milk.  The  irregular 
grouping  of  the  sugar  crystals  and  gas  bubbles  is  characteristic  of  the  coarser 
texture  obtained  in  the  cake  shown  in  Fig.  63.  Magnification  x  100. 

the  conventional  method,  the  manner  of  adding  the  milk  and  flour  may 
vary.  As  used  in  the  experimental  outline  the  fat  has  a  temperature  of 
22°  to  28°C.  It  is  combined  with  the  sugar  and  beaten  egg.  Then  they 


METHODS  OF  MIXING  CAKES 


487 


en 


Fig.  61. — The  butter,  sugar,  and  beaten  eggs  are  put  in  the  mixing  bo^yl ;  then 
thoroughly  creamed.  The  air  bubbles  are  scarcely  perceptible  as  tiny  white  dots. 
Temperature  of  ingredients  22°C.  Magnification   approximately  x   100. 


Fig.  62. — Photomicrograph  of  cake  batter.  Same  as  Fig.  61,  after  adding  the  flour 
and  milk.  Note  the  very  regular  grouping  of  the  sugar  crystals.  All  batters, 
observed  microscopically,  that  have  had  regular  distribution  of  the  sugar  crystals 
have  produced  excellent  textured  cakes.  See  Fig.  64.  Magnification  approximately 
X  100. 

Fiffs.  55  to  64  by  courtesy  of  Lor  a  Ruth  James. 


488  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

are  stirred  until  thoroughly  creamed,  spongy,  and  fluffy.  When  the  beaten 
egg  is  added  to  the  fat  and  sugar  at  tjie  beginning  of  the  creaming  process 
a  rotary  egg  beater  may  be  used  until  the  mass  becomes  too  stiff  to  turn 
the  beater  easily,  when  a  spoon  can  be  substituted.  After  the  fat,  sugar, 
and  egg  have  been  stirred  they  sometimes  separate  into  fine  flecks  or  curds. 
The  flour  and  milk  are  added  to  the  above  mixture.  Sometimes,  after  the 
flour  and  milk  are  added  to  the  other  ingredients,  the  flecks  or  curds  may 
continue  or  may  develop  later  in  the  batter.  They  also  usually  develop 
with  the  conventional  method  of  mixing,  and  at  least  in  some  recipes  there 
is  nothing  detrimental  in  their  formation.  In  fact,  the  presence  of  very  fine 
flecks  seems  to  give  assurance  of  a  good  texture  in  some  recipes.  If  the 
flecks  or  curds  are  very  large  the  texture  of  the  cake  is  not  as  good  as  when 
they  are  smaller. 

James,  using  Formula  I,  found  that  cakes  scored  higher  when  the  fat, 
sugar,  and  eggs  were  thoroughly  creamed  than  when  only  partially  creamed. 

A  variation  of  the  cake-mixer  method  is  to  put  everything  in  the 
mixing  bowl  at  once  and  then  combine  the  ingredients.  The  texture  of  the 
cake  thus  obtained  for  any  given  recipe  depends  largely  upon  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  ingredients  when  combined.  If  all  the  ingredients  are  at  the 
optimum  or  ideal  temperature  for  combining,  excellent  textures  may  be 
obtained.  Longer  mixing  is  also  required  than  is  usual  after  the  flour  is 
added,  if  the  butter  and  sugar  have  not  been  thoroughly  creamed. 

Emulsion  method.  This  method  of  mixing  cake  is  one  evolved  in  the 
author's  laboratory.  If  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  is  desired  in  a  cake  batter, 
why  not  mix  the  batter  by  a  method  that  will  give  the  most  stable  emul- 
sion? The  oil  or  melted  fat  is  added  gradually  to  the  beaten  egg  exactly 
as  in  making  mayonnaise.  The  sugar  is  added  to  the  emulsion  and  next 
the  flour  and  milk.  This  method  of  mixing  is  a  poor  one  for  making  cake. 
The  cake  is  more  rubbery  and  tough  when  mixed  by  this  method.  This  is 
logical,  for  the  fat  being  dispersed  in  spheres  has  proportionally  less  surface 
area,  and  being  surrounded  by  the  emulsifying  agents,  the  egg  and  flour, 
has  less  shortening  power  and  hence  the  cake  is  more  elastic  and  tough. 
For  the  same  reason  the  fat  is  not  as  evident  to  the  taste  as  when  the 
cake  is  mixed  by  the  conventional  or  cake-mixer  methods.  If  the  emulsion 
breaks,  as  it  often  does  with  the  proportion  of  fat  and  eggs  used  in  cakes, 
the  texture  of  the  cake  is  better  than  if  it  had  not  broken.  If  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  ingredients  is  such  that  the  fat  does  not  remain  melted,  the 
oil-in-water  emulsion  is  also  likely  to  break.  A  better  texture  is  then  obtained. 

Conventional-sponge.  Cakes  made  of  oil  by  the  conventional  method 
always  have  a  large  portion  of  the  oil  dispersed  as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion. 
See  Fig.  65.  Nearly  the  same  result  was  obtained  when  soft,  grainy  lards 
were  used.  Since  this  distribution  of  the  fat  results  in  a  tougher,  less  de- 
sirable cake  than  when  the  major  portion  of  the  oil  or  fat  forms  a  thin 
film  at  the  air/crumb  interface,  methods  of  mixing  to  obtain  the  latter  dis- 
tribution of  the  fat  seemed  desirable.  It  was  noted  that  a  spice  cake  made 


METHODS  OF  MIXING  CAKES 


489 


Fig.  63. — The  plain  cake  recipe,  Formula  I,  was  used  for  cakes  shown  in  Figs. 
57,  63,  and  64.  The  above  cake  is  made  from  partially  creamed  sugar,  butter, 
and  egg  as  shown  in  Figs.  59  and  60. 


Fig.  64. — The  above  cake  is  made  by  method  shown  in  Figs.  61  and  68.  The 
flour  and  milk  were  added  in  the  same  manner  as  for  the  cakes  shown  in  Figs. 
57  and  63. 

from  soft,  grainy  lard,  but  with  no  egg,  had  excellent,  very  velvety  tex- 
ture. Then  it  was  observed  that  after  the  egg  was  added  to  the  cake  batter 
the  tendency  to  disperse  the  soft  fat  as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion  was  in- 
creased. From  this  premise  Martin  developed  several  methods  of  mixing 
to  use  with  lard  in  cake.  When  the  egg  was  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  milk 
and  the  milk  added  as  usual  the  texture  of  the  cakes  improved.  The 
conventional-sponge  method  gave  still  better  results. 

The  conventional-sponge  method  has  been  used  in  a  series  of  studies  by 
McLean,  Stone,  Buel,  Minard,  and  Myers.  The  recipe  used  for  this  method 
Is  Formula  I.  with  Yz  cup  of  fat  and  1^  cups  of  sugar.  But  a  good  creamed 


490 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  65. — Photomicrograph  of  cake  made  with  oil.  Left,  conventional ;  right,  con- 
ventional-sponge method.  Temperature  for  combining  25°C.  There  is  more  tendency 
for  the  oil  to  be  distributed  at  the  crumb/air  interface  by  the  latter  method. 
Magnification  approximately  x  350,  except  center,  which  is  x  70.  Center  is  same  as 
right.  Because  of  the  thickness  of  the  section  and  the  consequent  diffraction,  the 
crumb  appears  fluid  at  350  magnification  but  shows  better  at  70  magnification. 


Fig.  66. — Cake  batter.  The  temperature  of  all  the  ingredients  was  40°C.  when 
mixed.  At  this  temperature  the  butter  was  melted.  When  stirred  a  partial  or 
complete  oil-in-water  emulsion  was  formed.  The  small  dark  spheres  are  butter. 
Because  of  the  high  magnification  necessary  to  show  the  fat  spheres,  the  layer  of 
batter  appears  very  thick.  Magnification  approximately  x  400. 


Fig.  67. — Showing  the  distribution  of  fat  (butter)  in  cake  as  influenced  by  method 
of  mixing  and  temperature  of  ingredients  when  combined.  At  the  lower  tempera- 
ture the  fat  (black  in  the  photomicrographs)  is  at  the  surface  of  the  cake  crumb, 
but  the  layer  is  more  uneven  in  the  conventional  than  for  the  conventional-sponge 
method.  At  the  higher  temperature  the  fat  is  softer  and  is  distributed  within  the 
cake  crumb,  which  results  in  a  cake  of  poorer  texture.  Magnification  approximately 
X  350. 

Upper  left:  Conventional  method,  ingredients  mixed  at  25°C. 

Upper   right:  Conventional-sponge  at  25°C. 

Lower  left:  Conventional  at  30°C. 

Lower  right:  Conventional-sponge  at  30°C.    (Myers) 


492  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

volume  is  not  obtained  with  these  proportions  because  the  ratio  of  sugar  to 
fat  is  too  large.  Hence  when  Martin  creamed  the  fat  with  one-half  the 
sugar  the  volume  of  the  creamed  mixture  increased.  A  very  small  amount 
of  flour  w^as  folded  into  this  creamed  mixture,  then  the  remainder  of  the 
flour  and  the  milk  were  added  in  any  manner  desired.  The  other  half  of 
the  sugar  was  beaten  with  the  whole  egg  until  the  mixture  was  thick, 
fluffy,  and  spongy,  resembling  a  sponge  cake  batter  in  texture.  This  was 
then  quickly  folded  into  the  cake  batter. 

The  conventional-sponge  method  is  the  only  method  used  in  the  author's 
laboratory  that  gives  an  excellent  textured  cake  when  oil  is  used.  Although 
developed  to  use  with  soft  lard  it  has  been  found  equally  good  to  use  with 
butter  and  hydrogenated  fats.  The  chief  advantage  of  this  method  is  the 
increased  velvetiness  of  the  crumb,  which  may  be  related  to  the  fat  dis- 
tribution. 

That  the  method  and  order  of  mixing  and  combining  ingredients  has  an 
effect  on  the  fat  distribution  is  shown  in  Fig.  67. 

Temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  the  cake  batter  is  mixed. 
At  higher  temperatures  the  fat  becomes  softer,  more  mobile,  and  is  easier 
to  emulsify.  When  a  temperature  at  which  the  major  portion  of  the  fat  is 
emulsified  is  reached,  i.e.,  when  very  soft  or  entirely  melted,  the  cakes  are 
poorer  in  texture  and  resemble  those  made  from  oil  by  the  conventional 
method.  See  Figs.  65  and  67. 

The  extent  the  batter  should  be  mixed  depends  to  a  certain  degree  upon 
the  temperature  of  the  ingredients.  If  the  ingredients  are  w^arm,  the  flour 
proteins  absorb  more  water  and  at  a  quicker  rate  than  at  low  tempera- 
tures. The  sugar  dissolves  better,  and  the  fat  is  distributed  more  readily. 
Mixing  should  be  shorter  w^hen  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  is  high 
and  longer  when  the  temperature  is  low.  But,  since  the  fat  creams  better 
at  24°  to  28°C.,  it  is  preferable  to  mix  the  ingredients  at  these  tempera- 
tures. When  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  drops  to  18°  to  19°C.  the 
texture  of  the  cake  is  not  as  nice  as  at  24°  or  slightly  higher,  even  if 
creamed  thoroughly  on  a  machine. 

A  microscopic  study  of  the  distribution  of  fat  in  cake  batters  shows  that 
a  very  important  factor  in  obtaining  velvetiness  is  the  way  the  fat  is  dis- 
tributed throughout  the  batter.  If  the  fat  forms  an  oil-in-water  emulsion 
the  cake  is  not  velvety,  for  the  spheres  of  fat  or  oil  being  surrounded  by 
egg  and  flour  cannot  impart  the  softness  called  velvetiness  to  the  cake. 
When  the  fat  is  distributed  in  rather  thick  layers,  the  cake  is  not  velvety, 
for  there  is  not  the  degree  of  separation  of  the  other  ingredients  of  the 
cake  by  the  fat  to  impart  this  texture.  For  a  velvety  texture  in  the  cake 
the  major  portion  of  the  fat  in  the  batter  is  distributed  in  very  thin  films 
or  sheets  around  the  sugar  crystals,  the  air  bubbles,  and  between  the  other 
ingredients  of  the  batter.  The  distribution  of  the  fat  in  thin  films  is  most 
readily  obtained  when  the  fat  is  most  plastic. 

Fig.  66  is  a  photomicrograph  of  cake  batter  that  shows  the  butter  dis- 
persed as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion.  All  the  materials  were   incubated   at 


FAT  DISTRIBUTION  IN  CAKE 


493 


40°C.  and  mixed  at  this  temperature.  The  butter  was  melted,  and  during 
mixing  an  emulsion  was  formed.  This  photomicrograph  has  a  higher  mag- 
nification than  the  other  photomicrographs  used  in  the  illustrations,  and 
shows  how  well  the  melted  fat  may  be  emulsified  by  mixing. 

Myers  studied  the  effect  of  two  temperatures  of  ingredients  at  the  time 
of  combining  on  the  fat  distribution  in  the  baked  cake.  The  temperatures 
used  were  25°  and  30°C. ;  the  methods  of  combining  ingredients,  the 
conventional-sponge  and  conventional;  and  the  fats  used,  butter  and  both 
smooth  and  grainy  lards.  The  two  lards  were  from  the  same  source.  A  suf- 
ficient amount  of  open-kettle  rendered  lard  for  the  whole  experiment  was 
carefully  melted  and  divided  into  two  portions.  One  part  was  allowed  to 
cool  slowly  in  an  incubator  at  25  °C.  with  the  result  that  it  was  granular 
or  grainy  with  some  separated  oil.  The  other  portion  was  cooled  within  a 
kettle  set  in  a  container  into  which  tap  water  at  10°-15°C.  was  running 
constantly.  More  than  an  hour  of  constant  stirring  was  required  before 
the  lard  solidified.  The  product  was  then  set  in  the  constant  temperature 
box  at  25 °C.  for  12  hours,  as  suggested  by  a  patent  to  Procter  and  Gamble 
Company.  The  resulting  lard  had  a  very  desirable  consistency,  neither  too 
soft  nor  too  hard  and  waxy,  and  was  very  plastic. 

The  analysis  of  variance  of  total  scores  shows  that  the  variation  due  to 
temperature,  method  of  combining,  and  fat  used  were  all  highly  significant. 
A  total  of  300  cakes  was  made  and  the  average  total  scores  are  given  in 
Table  57. 

TABLE  57 

Average  Total  Cake  Scores  for  Different  Temperatures,  Methods  of 
Combining  Ingredients,  and  the  Different  Fats  Used  (Myers) 


Variation 

Number  of 
cakes 

Total  average 
score 

Temperature  of  ingredients  when  combined, 

°c 

25 .                                          

150 
150 

150 
150 

100 
100 
100 

76 

30 

68 

Method  of  combining  the  ingredients 

Conventional-sponge 

78 

Conventional 

64 

Fats  used 

Butter                                      

76 

Smooth  lard                           .        

73 

Grainy  lard 

64 

The  smooth-lard  group  of  cakes  scored  highest  at  25 °C.  for  both  con- 
ventional-sponge  and   conventional   methods,   the   butter   second,   and   the 


494 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig,  68. — Cake.  Showing  effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  volume  and  texture  when 
a  tartrate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experiment  84A.  As  shown  in  illustration 
the  cakes  are  about  seven-ninths   actual   size. 

150  grams  of  the  batter   removed    and   baked   after   mixing, 


grainy  lard  third.  But  at  30°,  butter  scored  first  for  both  methods  of  com- 
bining, the  smooth  lard  second,  and  grainy  lard  third.  The  distribution  of 
the  fat  in  the  cake  crumb,  which  was  stained  with  osmic  acid  fumes,  is 
shown  for  the  two  temperatures  and  methods  of  combining  in  the  photo- 
micrographs, Fig.  67. 

At  25°,  when  the  fats  were  firmer  when  combined,  the  fat  in  the  cake 


FAT  DISTRIBUTION  IN  CAKE 


495 


Fig.   68. 

1. 

50  strokes. 

2. 

100  strokes. 

3. 

150  strokes. 

4. 

300  strokes. 

5. 

400  strokes. 

6. 

1000  strokes. 

crumb,  depending  somewhat  on  method  and  fat  used,  is  more  or  less  evenly 
distributed  at  the  air/crumb  interface.  In  general  the  more  even  this  dis- 
tribution the  higher  the  scores  received  by  the  group  of  cakes.  Of  the  12 
groups  of  cakes,  those  made  with  smooth  lard,  by  the  conventional-sponge 


496 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  69. — Cake.  Showing  the  effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  volume  and  texture 
when  a  phosphate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experiment  84B.  Illustration  is  about 
seven-ninths  actual  size  of  cakes. 

150  grams  of  batter   removed   and   baked    after   mixing, 


method  at  25°,  scored  highest  and  as  a  group  had  the  most  even  distribu- 
tion of  fat  at  the  air/crumb  interface. 

At  30°,  when  the  fats  were  softer  and  more  mobile,  hence  the  squeezing 
effect  exerted  by  the  egg  in  forming  oil-in-Vv^ater  emulsions  encountered  less 
resistance,  the  fat  is  distributed  within  the  crumb,  a  fairly  large  portion  as 


Fig.  69. 

1.  50  strokes. 

2.  100  strokes. 

3.  150  strokes, 

4.  300  strokes. 

5.  400  strokes. 

6.  1000  strokes. 


498  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

an  oil-in-water  emulsion.  As  a  result  the  cakes  were  less  palatable  and  re- 
ceived lower  scores. 

Extent  o£  mixing  and  its  effect  on  the  baked  cake.  Several  illus- 
trations accompany  this  part  of  the  discussion  of  cakes.  For  the  illustrations 
150  grams  of  batter  were  always  used  and  the  cakes  were  baked  in  pans 
of  the  same  size.  This  small  amount  of  batter  was  used  so  that  the  grain, 
holes,  and  imperfections  of  texture  and  the  volume  are  shown  nearly  actual 
size.  As  reproduced  the  illustrations  are  seven-ninths  of  the  actual  size  of 
the  cakes.  Incidentally,  it  is  difficult  to  make  cake  without  some  irregular 
holes  from  enclosed  air,  and  these  imperfections  show  more  in  the  picture 
than  in  the  cake.  The  ingredients  for  the  cakes  were  23  °C.  when  mixed. 
The  butter,  sugar,  and  beaten  egg  were  creamed  only  75  turns  with  a 
rotary  egg  beater  and  100  times  with  a  wooden  spoon,  thus  they  were  not 
thoroughly  creamed,  hence  a  coarser  texture  was  produced.  They  were  also 
baked  at  a  lower  temperature  than  now  considered  optimum.  The  very  plain 
cake  recipe,  see  Experiment  84,  is  used  in  the  experimental  outline  because 
variations  in  extent  of  mixing  and  the  proportion  of  ingredients  show  very 
distinctly.  For  a  plain  cake  recipe  for  home  use  most  people  will  prefer 
the  sugar  increased  to  1^  cups. 

Extent  of  mixing,  its  effect  upon  crust  and  shape  of  cake.  With  very 
little  mixing,  so  that  the  ingredients  are  just  combmed  but  not  blended 
until  the  batter  is  smooth  (cakes  number  1,  Figs.  68  to  70,  with  50 
strokes),  the  top  of  the  cake  is  nearly  level  or  slightly  rounded.  It  browns 
well  and  is  rough.  The  crust  has  considerable  glaze.  As  the  amount  of 
mixing  is  increased  the  crust  is  less  rough,  has  less  glaze,  does  not  brown 
so  well,  and  is  more  rounded  across  the  top,  until  with  more  than  an 
optimum  amount  of  beating,  300  to  400  strokes  in  this  cake,  the  crust  be- 
comes dull  in  appearance  and  quite  smooth.  There  is  a  tendency  for  the 
top  to  come  to  a  peak  instead  of  being  rounded.  Small  holes  may  be  notice- 
able. Over  these  holes  there  is  often  a  very  thin  layer  of  crust  that  covers 
the  end  of  a  long  tunnel  that  extends  up  through  the  cake.  With  decided 
excess  of  mixing,  1000  strokes,  the  top  may  be  level  or  only  slightly 
rounded  and  is  very  dull  and  smooth  in  appearance  and  nearly  white  in 
color.  The  appearance  of  the  crust  of  cake  made  with  sulfate-phosphate 
baking  powder.  Fig.  70,  changes  with  increased  mixing  but  not  so  rapidly 
as  in  the  cakes  made  with  the  phosphate  or  tartrate  baking  powder. 

Extent  of  mixing,  its  effect  upon  volume.  When  the  cake  is  just  mixed 
so  that  no  dry  ingredients  show,  the  volume  of  the  cake  may  be  less  than 
when  the  batter  is  stirred  a  little  longer,  or  it  may  be  larger.  With  more 
mixing,  100  to  150  strokes,  the  volume  may  or  may  not  increase.  Con- 
tinued beating  after  an  amount  sufficient  to  give  the  maximum  volume 
decreases  the  volume  in  proportion  to  the  degree  of  over-mixing.  With 
more  than  an  optimum  amount  of  mixing  the  volumes  of  cakes  containing 
a  phosphate  or  a  tartrate  baking  powder  decrease  more  rapidly  than  those 


MIXING  AND  THE  TEXTURE  OF  CAKE  499 

of  the  cakes  made  with  sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder.  See  Figs.  68 
to  70. 

Extent  of  mixing,  its  effect  upon  texture.  With  a  definite  proportion  of 
ingredients  the  texture  as  well  as  the  character  of  the  crust  and  the  volume 
varies  with  the  extent  of  mixing.  The  cakes  in  which  the  ingredients  are 
just  mixed  so  as  to  show  no  dry  flour  do  not  have  a  desirable  texture. 
See  cakes  1  in  illustrations.  The  ingredients  of  the  cake  are  not  well 
blended,  and  the  crumb  has  a  horny,  flinty  texture,  which  is  sometimes 
called  bready.  The  crumb  is  crumbly.  It  is  not  smooth  and  velvety  on 
the  palate.  The  cell  walls  are  thick  and  the  cells  coarse  and  large  in  size. 
A  cake  made  with  this  amount  of  mixing  dries  out  and  stales  in  a  very 
much  shorter  time  than  portions  of  the  same  batter  mixed  for  a  longer  time. 
With  more  mixing  the  grain  of  the  cake  is  finer  and  the  cell  walls  thinner. 
The  crumb  is  smooth  and  velvety  when  tasted,  and  the  ingredients  are  well 
blended.  With  a  definite  amount  of  mixing  of  the  plain  cake  batter,  150 
to  400  strokes,  which  varies  somewhat  with  the  kind  of  baking  powder 
used,  the  maker's  technic,  and  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients,  tunnels 
begin  to  appear.  More  mixing  than  the  optimum  produces  a  finer  grain,  or 
smaller  cells,  until  a  stage  is  reached,  1000  strokes  or  more,  at  which  the 
texture  is  very  compact  or  even  soggy  and  solid. 

Swanson  and  Working,  also  Bailey  and  Le  Vesconte,  have  shown  that 
extended  mixing  of  bread  dough  modifies  the  quality  of  the  gluten,  and 
its  extensibility  is  decreased.  It  seems  logical  to  expect  this  stage  to  develop 
in  cakes  as  well  as  in  bread,  although  on  account  of  the  different  propor- 
tion of  ingredients  the  amount  of  mixing  to  bring  this  about  may  vary 
from  the  amount  required  for  bread.  Several  factors  may  aid  in  producing 
the  small  volume  with  1000  strokes.  These  include  the  extent  of  mixing, 
its  effect  upon  the  gluten,  the  effect  of  the  baking  powder  upon  the  gluten, 
and  the  loss  of  carbon  dioxide  formed  from  the  baking  powder. 

Tunnels.  Tunnels  in  cakes  develop  in  the  same  way  as  the  tunnels  in 
mufHns.  Gas  expands  in  a  weakened  section  of  the  batter.  This  weaker  sec- 
tion is  between  long  parallel  strands  of  gluten  which  have  been  stretched 
and  developed  in  mixing  and  in  putting  the  batter  in  the  pans.  An  excess 
of  flour,  see  Fig.  71,  and  too  much  mixing  tend  to  favor  the  formation  of 
tunnels.  An  increased  percentage  of  sugar  lessens  the  tendency  to  form 
tunnels.  A  high  baking  temperature  may  tend  to  increase  the  tendency 
for  tunnel  formation,  but  is  quite  variable.  Tunnels  are  formed  more 
often  when  small  portions  of  the  batter  are  baked  in  small  deep  pans 
than  when  the  whole  cake  recipe  is  baked  in  a  large  or  a  shallow  pan, 
for  the  batter  for  the  small  cake  is  usually  dropped  from  a  spoon,  whereas 
for  the  larger  cakes  it  is  more  often  poured  into  the  cake  pan.  Tunnels  do 
not  develop  so  often  if  the  batter  is  stirred  with  a  circular  motion  as 
they  do  when  the  batter  is  beaten  across  the  bowl.  The  reason  for  this  is 
that,  if  the  batter  is  stirred,  the  mixing  utensil  is  pulled  around  and  around 
the  bowl  and  after  a  definite  amount  of  mixing  the  appearance  of  the  batter 


500 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  70. — Showing  the  effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  volume  and  texture  when 
sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder  is  used.  Experiment  84C.  As  shown  in  the 
illustration  the  cakes  are  about  seven-ninths  actual  size. 

150  grams  of  batter  removed  and  baked  after  mixing, 


is  similar  to  that  in  Fig.  71.  When  some  of  this  batter  is  removed  with 
a  spoon  to  put  in  a  cake  pan,  the  spoon  cuts  across  the  strands  or  ridges 
developed  during  stirring,  and  tunnels  are  not  so  likely  to  occur  in  the 
baked  cake.  In  beating,  unless  the  bowl  is  turned  while  mixing,  the  strands 
or  ridges  have  formed  across  the  bowl  instead  of  around  it.  If  the  spoon 


^  *  f 


'^^^^^tt^ 


4"> 

I' 

i 

'4 

*^* 

^tei. 


Fig.  70. 

1.  50  strokes. 

2.  100  strokes. 

3.  150  strokes. 

4.  300  strokes. 

5.  400  strokes. 

6.  1000  strokes. 


502  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

is  dipped  or  the  batter  is  poured  in  the  same  direction  in  which  the  strands 
are  formed,  the  tendency  to  develop  tunnels  is  augmented.  If  the  bowl 
is  turned  while  the  batter  is  beaten,  there  is  no  more  tendency  for  tunnels 
to  form  than  when  the  batter  is  stirred. 

Optunum   amount    of   inixing   for   plain    cake.    In    the    plain    cake    the 
optimum  amount  of  mixing  varies  with  ( 1 )  the  thoroughness  of  creaming, 


Fig.   71. — Showing  the   strands  formed   and   their   direction   in   a   batter   that    is 
stirred. 

(2)  the  intensity  of  mixing,  (3)  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients,  (4) 
the  type  of  baking  powder  used,  (5)  the  quantity  of  baking  powder  used, 
and  (6)  the  point  at  which  the  baking  powder  is  added.  When  the  butter, 
sugar,  and  egg  are  thoroughly  creamed,  the  optimum  amount  of  mixing  may 
extend  over  a  wider  range.  Most  of  these  factors  have  been  considered.  For 
the  very  plain  cake  recipe,  when  a  phosphate  or  tartrate  powder  is  used,  about 
150  to  200  strokes  give  the  best  texture,  if  the  baking  powder  is  added  with 
the  flour.  A  sulfate-phosphate  powder  requires  about  250  to  300  strokes  for 


STALING  OF  CAKE 


503 


the  best  texture.  As  the  sugar  In  the  recipe  is  increased  to  give  a  more  de- 
sirable cake,  the  optimum  amount  of  mixing  is  greater,  but  is  more  nearly 
the  same  for  all  the  different  types  of  baking  powder. 

For  Formula  I,  with  1^  cups  of  sugar,  which  is  a  more  desirable  plain 
cake,  about  225  to  250  strokes,  or  sometimes  more,  are  sufficient  for  mixing 
the  flour  and  milk  with  the  creamed  mixture  to  produce  a  good  texture. 


8  10  12  14  16 

'~^-'  Gms.  Baking  Powder  per  Cake 

Fig.  72. — The  effect  on  volume  of  increasing  the  quantity  of  three  types  of  baking 
powder  in  plain  cake,  sulfate-phosphate  (combination),  tartrate,  and  phosphate. 
(McLean) 

Effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  staling.  Olsen  used  the  compressibility 
apparatus  designed  by  Piatt  in  trying  to  determine  the  effect  of  extent  of 
mixing  upon  the  staling  of  plain  cake.  It  was  found  that  cakes  mixed  for 
different  lengths  of  time  could  not  be  compared  with  each  other.  Those 
mixed  for  a  very  short  period  had  a  loose,  coarse,  porous  texture,  which 
permitted  greater  penetration  of  the  plunger  Into  the  crumb.  The  cakes 
mixed  for  a  longer  period  were  compact  in  texture  and  offered  more  resist- 
ance to  penetration  of  the  plunger.  It  was  found  there  was  a  tendency 
for  the  cakes  creamed  a  short  time  to  stale  more  rapidly  than  those  creamed 
for  a  longer  period.  The  rate  of  staling  was  greatest  during  the  first  24 
hours.  It  was  less  rapid  from  24  to  48  hours  and  continued  at  a  still  slower 
rate  from  48  to  96  hours.  Formula  I  was  used  for  tests. 


504 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Variation  o£  proportion  of  ingredients.  As  the  proportion  of 
ingredients  used  in  the  cake  is  varied  the  appearance  of  the  crust  and  the 
top  of  the  cake  differs  from  that  of  the  plain  cake.  The  extent  of  mix- 
ing to  give  the  most  desirable  texture  may  also  need  to  be  changed. 

The  proportion  of  baking  powder.  McLean  used  varying  amounts  of 
three  types  of  baking  powder  to  determine  the  optimum  quantity  of  each 
powder  for  plain  cake  (Formula  I). 

The  effect  on  the  cake  volume  of  increasing  the  baking  powder  is  shown 
in  Fig.  72.  The  volume  increases  with  increased  quantity  of  powder  used 


8  10  12  14 

Grains  Baking  Powder 

Fig.  73. — The  effect  on  total  scores  of  increasing  the  quantity  of  three  types  of 
baking  powder  in  plain  cake.  Each  point  on  the  graph  is  an  average  of  scores  for 
14   cakes.    (McLean) 


until  a  point  is  reached  at  which  the  cake  falls,  the  volume  decreasing  with 
still  greater  increments  of  baking  powder.  This  decrease  in  volume  occurs 
with  a  larger  quantity  than  that  shown  in  the  graphs. 

From  Fig.  73  a  comparison  may  be  made  of  the  change  m  score  caused  by 
increasing  the  weight  of  a  tartrate,  phosphate,  or  a  sulfate-phosphate  (com- 
bination) powder  in  plain  cake  and  again  a  comparison  may  be  drawn 
between  the  scores  for  cakes  made  with  an  equal  weight  of  the  three  dif- 
ferent types  of  baking  powder.  McLean  found  that  the  palatability  and 
desirability  of  the  cakes,  as  shown  by  the  scores,  progressively  increased 
with  increased  weight  of  the  powders  until  the  optimum  quantity  of  baking 
powder  is  reached.  With  a  further  increase  beyond  the  optimum  amount  the 
desirability  of  the  cakes  decreased.  The  decrease  in  desirability  was  most 


BAKING  POWDER  505 

rapid  with  the  powder  giving  the  greatest  volume,  indicating  that  it  is 
more  detrimental  to  use  too  much  of  a  sulfate-phosphate  baking  powder 
than  of  a  tartrate  or  phosphate.  For  the  formula,  the  method  of  mixing 
used,  and  for  the  brands  of  baking  powder  used  in  the  investigations,  the 
optimum  quantity  of  each  powder  was  as  follows:  sulfate-phosphate,  8  to 
10  grams;  tartrate,  10  grams;  and  phosphate,  12  grams. 

An  increase  in  the  quantity  of  a  baking  powder  over  and  above  the  op- 
timum amount  causes  an  increasing  tendency  to  produce  a  coarse,  loose 
texture,  crumbliness,  a  harsh  crumb,  a  lack  of  velvetiness,  and  a  possible 
off  flavor.  With  enough  baking  powder  to  cause  the  cake  to  fall  an  increas- 
ingly gummy,  sticky,  chewy  texture  is  obtained.  Too  little  baking  powder 
gives  a  cake  that  is  too  compact. 

The  measure  of  the  optimum  amount  of  each  type  of  powder  as  deter- 
mined by  McLean  is  approximately  3  teaspoons,  if  the  average  weight  of  a 
teaspoon  is  taken  as  3,  3.5,  and  4  grams  for  the  sulfate-phosphate,  tartrate, 
and  phosphate  baking  powders,  respectively.  Since  3  cups  of  flour  were  used 
in  the  recipe,  this  would  indicate  that  it  is  possible  to  use  1  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  per  cup  of  flour  for  all  three  types  of  powders.  Since  a  tea- 
spoon of  some  brands  does  not  weigh  the  same  as  the  brands  used  by  Mc- 
Lean, the  measure  for  these  brands  would  vary. 

Probably  the  chief  reason  for  the  variation  in  weight  of  different  types 
and  different  brands  of  the  same  type  is  the  fineness  of  subdivision  or 
grinding  of  the  ingredients. 

The  following  weights  for  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  have  been  sug- 
gested and  used. 

Type  of  powder  Halliday  and  Noble  Woodruff 

Grams  per  teaspoon  Grams  per  teaspoon 
Phosphate                                                           4.00  3.52 

Tartrate  3.67  3.07 

Sulfate-phosphate  3.70  2.85 

The  weights  by  Woodruff  were  determined  by  finding  the  average 
weight  of  a  cup  of  the  powder  and  taking  1/48  of  this  for  the  weight  of  a 
teaspoon.  From  the  above  weights  it  can  readily  be  calculated  that  3  tea- 
spoons of  the  sulfate-phosphate  powder  by  the  Halliday  and  Noble  scale  are 
equal  to  about  4  teaspoons  by  the  Woodruff  scale.  When  measured  by 
teaspoons  rather  than  by  cups  the  averages  of  Woodruff  are  low. 

The  weight  of  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  can  vary  considerably  even 
when  a  standard  measuring  spoon  is  used.  For  accurate  experimental  work 
the  baking  powder  is  weighed,  but  the  housekeeper  usually  measures  the 
ingredients  for  her  cakes.  Dipping  the  measuring  spoon  into  the  can  and 
leveling  off  the  surplus  tends  to  loosen  the  powder.  Thus  the  weight  of  the 
second  or  third  teaspoon  of  powder  will  vary,  depending  on  whether 
it  is  secured  from  the  loosened  or  the  more  compact  portions  in  the  can. 
As  the  powder  stands  in  the  can  it  tends  to  become  more  compact.  The 
averages  for  about  400  teaspoons  of  each  type  of  powder,  secured  by  leveling 
off  the  surplus  powder  after  dipping  the  spoon  in  the  can,  have  been  about 


506  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

3.0  grams  for  one  brand  of  sulfate-phosphate,  about  4.0  grams  for  a  second 
brand,  about  4.0  for  the  phosphate,  and  about  3.5  for  the  tartrate. 

Of  course  the  optimum  amount  of  baking  powder,  in  addition  to  ( 1 )  the 
type  of  baking  powder,  varies  with  (2)  the  formula,  (3)  the  thoroughness 
of  creaming,  (4)  the  method  of  mixing,  (5)  the  extent  of  mixing,  (6)  the 
kind  of  flour  used,  (7)  the  technic  of  the  operator,  (8)  time  of  adding  the 
beaten  egg  white,  and  (9)  the  altitude. 

In  general,  formulas  with  high  proportions  of  sugar  seem  to  require 
slightly  more  baking  powder  than  those  with  smaller  proportions. 

The  more  thoroughly  the  butter  and  sugar,  or  the  butter,  sugar,  and 
eggs,  are  creamed,  the  more  air  incorporated  and  the  less  baking  powder 
needed.  Of  course,  no  more  than  a  maximum  amount  of  air  can  be  incor- 
porated in  any  given  mixture. 

Methods  of  mixing  like  the  conventional-sponge  in  which  a  great  deal  of 
air  is  incorporated  in  the  egg-sugar  mixture  may  need  slightly  less  baking 
powder  than  the  conventional  method. 

There  is  a  limit  to  which  cake  batters  can  be  stirred  or  beaten  without 
affecting  the  tenderness  of  the  product.  In  general,  the  sulfate-phosphat;^ 
types  can  be  mixed  longer  than  the  other  types  of  powders. 

Because  of  the  tenacity  of  the  gluten,  more  baking  powder  is  needed 
with  bread  or  all-purpose  than  for  pastry  or  cake  flours. 

If  the  beaten  egg  whites  are  added  to  the  batter  last,  either  by  folding  or 
stirring,  a  smaller  proportion  of  baking  powder  produces  a  more  desirable 
texture. 

As  the  distance  above  sea  level  increases,  the  atmospheric  pressure  is 
decreased.  Consequently,  because  of  the  reduced  pressure,  a  given  quantity 
of  baking  powder  has  greater  leavening  ability  at  higher  altitudes.  Hence 
a  smaller  amount  of  any  type  of  powder  is  needed  at  higher  altitudes. 
Peterson  has  developed  recipes  for  high  altitudes. 

That  baking  powder  has  an  effect  on  the  viscosity  of  the  batter  is  shown 
clearly  by  adding  varying  amounts  of  baking  powder  (Experiment  84D) 
to  a  particular  cake  recipe.  A  much  stiffer,  thicker  batter  is  secured  with 
the  larger  quantity  of  baking  powder. 

Varying  the  proportiori  of  egg.  With  increased  egg  the  cell  walls  become 
thinner  and  the  cells  smaller  and  regular  in  shape  as  the  mixing  is  con- 
tinued. When  the  egg  is  increased  the  crumb  is  very  elastic,  the  cake  more 
rubbery,  tough,  and  compact.  Increasing  the  egg  imparts  a  glaze  to  the 
crust,  but  the  appearance  is  different  from,  and  less  crystalline  than,  that 
produced  with  increased  sugar.  The  plain  cake  recipe  with  increased  egg 
and  no  other  changes  is  not  so  desirable  as  the  original  recipe.  If  egg  is 
increased,  a  better  texture  is  obtained  if  the  white  is  beaten  separately  and 
added  last. 

Varying  the  proportion  of  sugar.  Sugar  is  added  for  sweetening.  But  it 
also  affects  the  texture  of  the  product.  With  larger  quantities  of  sugar  the 
batter  must  be  mixed  longer  even  when  baking  powders  that  react  rapidly 
at  low  temperatures  are  used.  The  sugar  competes  with  the  gluten   and 


BALANCING  CAKE  FORMULAS  507 

other  ingredients  for  the  liquid  and  prevents  the  development  of  the  gluten 
so  that  longer  mixing  is  necessary.  When  the  sugar  in  the  very  plain  cake 
recipe  is  increased  from  1  to  1^  cups  a  sweeter  cake  is  obtained  and  one 
with  a  better-balanced  formula,  so  that  a  better  texture  and  volume  are 
obtained.  The  amount  of  mixing  to  produce  the  best  texture  with  Ij^ 
cups  of  sugar  is  from  225  to  300  strokes  when  a  tartrate  or  phosphate 
baking  powder  is  used,  if  the  powder  is  added  with  the  flour.  When  the 
proportion  of  sugar  is  increased  to  2  cups,  Fig.  74,  a  decidedly  different 
texture  is  obtained  from  that  when  the  flour  or  egg  is  increased.  With 
slight  mixing  the  top  of  the  cake  is  sunken  or  fallen;  see  Fig.  74,  cake 
number  1,  mixed  with  50  strokes.  Experiment  84F,4.  Sometimes  the  cake 
bubbles  up  over  the  top  of  the  pan  and  then  falls.  The  top  is  rough,  shiny, 
and  has  a  crystalline  appearance.  The  cell  walls  are  very  thick  and  the  cells 
are  large  and  coarse.  The  cake  browns  readily.  It  is  gummy  and  chewy 
when  tasted.  As  the  amount  of  mixing  is  increased  the  texture  of  the 
cake  is  improved.  The  number  of  strokes  required  to  produce  a  fine  grain 
is  very  much  greater  than  in  the  plain  cake.  The  texture  with  1000  and 
1500  strokes,  cakes  numbers  5  and  6,  Fig.  74,  is  very  much  better  than  in 
the  cakes  just  slightly  mixed.  The  most  desirable  texture  is  sometimes  ob- 
tained with  400  strokes,  sometimes  with  1000,  and  occasionally  with  1500. 
The  cakes  with  increased  sugar  used  in  the  illustrations  were  made  with 
a  tartrate  baking  powder. 

Varying  the  proportion  of  fat.  Increasing  the  fat  results  in  a  more 
tender  cake.  The  fat  in  the  plain  cake  recipe  can  be  increased  from  ^  cup 
to  ^  cup  and  a  good  texture  obtained,  but  the  volume  of  the  cake  is  smaller. 
The  cake  is  better  if  the  sugar  and  eggs  are  increased  at  the  same  time. 
The  appearance  of  the  crust  of  a  cake  with  a  large  amount  of  fat  is  rather 
smooth.  It  browns  readily,  but  not  so  easily  as  with  sugar. 

Varying  the  proportion  of  flour.  If  the  flour  is  very  dry  a  better  texture 
is  obtained  when  the  flour  is  reduced.  If  the  proportion  of  flour  in  the 
plain  ,cake  is  increased  the  tendency  to  tunnel  is  increased.  The  cake  is  drier 
and  more  solid.  The  volume  is  good.  When  the  flour  in  the  plain  cake 
recipe  is  increased  to  3^^  cups.  Experiment  84F,7,  Fig.  75,  the  tenacity 
of  the  batter  becomes  very  great.  As  the  gluten  is  developed  by  mixing, 
long  strands  show  in  the  batter  when  the  mixing  spoon  is  pulled  through 
it.  Often  after  mixing  1000  strokes  ribbons  of  batter  from  ^  to  ^  inch 
in  width  and  over  a  foot  long  will  form  when  the  batter  is  allowed  to 
drop  from  the  spoon. 

Balancing  cake  formulas.  Various  ways  and  means  are  suggested  for 
balancing  cake  formulas.  The  single  variation  of  the  plain  recipe  in  the 
experimental  outline  that  usually  gives  the  most  acceptable  cake  is  to  increase 
the  sugar  from  1  to  1^  cups.  This  recipe  is  Formula  I  in  Table  58. 

Bakers  have  different  rules  for  balancing  cake  formulas,  but  they  state 
there  will  always  be  exceptions  to  these  rules.  They  also  mix  larger 
quantities  in  one  batch  than  the  housewife,  often  20  to  50  pounds  or  more 
at  one  time.  It  is  well  known  that  in  large-quantity  cookery  the  propor- 


508 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


tion  of  liquid  must  be  decreased,  or  if  a  very  small  portion  of  the  recipe 
is  made,  the  liquid  must  be  increased.  In  many  instances  the  rules  given 
in  bakery  trade  journals  sift  down  to  the  following  or  similar  sugges- 
tions. 


Fig.  74. — Cake.  Showing  the  effect  on  texture  of  increasing  the  sugar  in  the 
plain  cake  recipe  from  1  to  2  cups.  Experiment  84F,4.  As  shown  in  the  illustration 
the  cakes  are  about  seven-ninths  actual  size. 

150  grams  of  the  batter  removed  and  baked  after  mixing, 


BALANCING  CAKE  FORMULAS 


509 


L  The  weight  of  the  fat  should  not  be  over  one-half  the  weight  of  the 


sugar. 


2.  The  weight  of  the  fat  should  not  exceed  the  weight  of  the  eggs. 


Fig.  74. 


1.  50  strokes. 

2.  150  strokes. 

3.  300  strokes. 


4.  400  strokes. 

5.  1000   strokes. 

6.  1500  strokes. 


3.  The  weight  of  the  sugar  should  not  exceed  the  weight  of  the  flour. 

4.  The  weight  of  the  liquid  (milk  plus  eggs,  not  weight  of  dried  milk 
or  eggs)  should  equal  the  weight  of  the  flour. 


510 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Fig.  75. — Cake.  Showing  effect  on  texture  and  volume  of  increasing  the  flour 
in  the  plain  cake  recipe  from  3  to  3>2  cups.  Experiment  84F,7,  Illustration  is 
about  seven-ninths  actual  size  of  cakes. 

150  grams  of  the  batter  removed  and  baked  after  mixing, 

Table  58  gives  four  formulas.  The  first  is  a  recipe  commonly  used 
for  plain  cake.  In  the  second  the  only  change  is  the  reduction  of  the 
liquid  to  accord  with  the  rules  given  above.  In  the  third  the  fat,  eggs, 
and  milk  are  changed  to  the  nearest  most  easily  measurable  quantities  for  a 
richer  cake. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 


511 


Fig.  75. 


1.  50  strokes. 

2.  100  strokes. 

3.  150  strokes. 


4.  300  strokes. 

5.  400  strokes. 

6.  1000  strokes. 


Chocolate  cake.  Probably  the  question  most  often  asked  the  author 
concerning  chocolate  cake  is  how  to  obtain  a  red  one.  The  usual  reply 
before  answering  the  query  is,  "Why  do  you  want  a  red  chocolate  cake?" 


512 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Chocolate.  For  a  better  understanding  of  the  action  of  chocolate  some 
knowledge  of  its  production  is  necessary.  Chocolate  is  obtained  from  cacao 
beans  of  the  cacao  tree.  The  term  cacao  is  used  to  refer  to  the  raw  material 
until  the  press  cake  stage.  The  term  cocoa  refers  to  the  powder.  The  beans 
are  cut  from  the  pods,  placed  in  piles,  and  fermented.  Fermentation  reduces 
the  bitterness  of  the  chocolate.  After  fermentation  the  beans  are  roasted. 

TABLE  58 
Formulas  for  Plain  Cake 


Formula  I 

Formula  II 

Formula  III 

Formula  IV 

Ingredients 

Meas- 

Weight, 

Meas- 

Weight, 

Meas- 

Weight, 

Meas- 

Weight, 

ure 

grams 

ure 

grams 

ure 

grams 

ure 

grams 

Butter 

Kc. 

112 

/'2    C. 

112 

H  c. 

140 

;^8C. 

84 

Sugar 

IKc. 

300 

1 J  <  c. 

300 

1 14  c. 

300 

IK  c. 

300 

Eggs 

2 

96 

2 

96 

3 

144 

VA 

72 

Flour 

3  c. 

300 

3  c. 

300 

3  c. 

300 

3  c. 

300 

Milk 

1  c. 

244 

'•(]  c. 

204 

fsc. 

156 

\yi  c. 

274 

Baking  pow- 

der 

3  t. 

8-12 

3  t. 

8-10 

3t. 

8-10 

3><  t. 

10-14 

Flavoring 

It. 

1  t. 

1  t. 

1 1. 

Salt 

Kt. 

H  t. 

>2    t. 

Kt. 

After  being  roasted  the  beans  are  shelled  and  cracked.  The  cracked  beans 
are  called  nibs.  The  roasting  brings  out  the  flavor,  but  Zenlea  states  that 
the  flavor  of  the  chocolate  is  dependent  upon  the  skill  used  in  blending, 
milling,  and  couching  of  the  various  varieties  of  nibs  with  the  proper 
quantity  of  sugar  and  cocoa  butter,  milk  solids,  when  used,  and  added 
flavors.  There  are  approximately  30  varieties  of  cocoa  beans  commonly 
used  and  Zenlea  says  the  nibs  of  these  beans  vary  in  color,  chocolate  char- 
acter, pungency,  acidity,  mildness,  bitterness,  and  creaminess.  The  blended 
nibs  are  ground,  a  temperature  just  above  32°C.  (90°F,)  being  maintained 
during  grinding,  this  temperature  and  the  pressure  rendering  the  product 
fluid.  This  chocolate  liquor,  which  contains  over  50  per  cent  of  cocoa  butter, 
is  run  into  molds  and  cooled  for  chocolate,  forming  the  bitter  chocolate  for 
household  and  commercial  uses.  In  the  "Service  and  Regulatory  Announce- 
ments" of  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  chocolate,  plain  chocolate, 
bitter  chocolate,  chocolate  liquor,  chocolate  paste,  bitter  chocolate  grating, 
all  are  defined  as  the  solid  or  plastic  mass  obtained  by  grinding  cacao  nibs. 
Sweet  chocolate,  sweet  chocolate  coating,  is  chocolate  mixed  with  sugar 
and/or  dextrose,  with  or  without  the  addition  of  cacao  butter,  spices,  or 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE  513 

other  flavoring  materials.  But  the  proportion  of  sugar  mixed  with  the 
chocolate  liquor  may  vary  from  none  to  about  68  per  cent. 

The  cocoa  beans  before  being  ground  vary  in  color  from  a  very  light 
brown,  or  nearly  gray,  to  a  deep  red  brown.  Thus  the  color  of  the  choco- 
late or  cocoa  may  vary  because  of  the  different  colored  beans  from  which 
it  is  made.  A  higher  roast  also  gives  a  darker  color.  Alkali-treated  chocolate 
is  also  darker  than  natural-processed  chocolate. 

Though  the  amount  of  sugar  added  to  chocolate  liquor  varies  greatly 
and  the  blends  of  chocolate  are  unlimited,  Zenlea  makes  the  following 
classifications  of  general  types:  bitter-sweet,  dark-sweet,  medium-dark 
sweet,  light-sweet,  milk,  ice  cream  bar,  skim  milk,  buttermilk,  malted  milk, 
imitation,  and  lecithin  coatings.  Bywaters  states  that  the  tannin  group  of 
substances  is  a  very  important  constituent  of  cacao  matter,  "for  it  deter- 
mines to  a  great  extent  the  colour  and  the  taste  of  the  product.  Cacao 
catechin  and  cacao  tannin  are  present  in  the  fresh  unfermented  bean."  The 
catechin  gives  a  very  b'tter  flavor.  Adam  and  Jensen  have  both  determined 
the  amount  of  catechin  and  cacao  tannin  in  the  unfermented  bean  and  in 
the  manufactured  chocolate  and  cocoa.  During  fermentation  the  cacao 
catechin  is  transformed  to  cacao  tannin.  The  amount  of  cacao  tannin  found 
in  the  fully  fermented  beans  averages  1.9  per  cent. 

Bywaters  states  that  cacao  tannin  in  the  presence  of  oxygen  is  trans- 
formed into  a  phlobaphene,  which  is  insoluble  in  water  and  reddish  in  color. 
The  red  color  of  cocoa  is  chiefly  due  to  the  presence  of  this  phlobaphene. 

To  make  cocoa  the  chocolate  liquor  is  put  in  a  hydraulic  press  and  part 
of  the  cocoa  butter  is  removed,  leaving  a  cake  containing  less  than  one-half 
as  much  cocoa  butter  as  the  chocolate.  This  cake  is  pulverized. 

Cocoa.  Zenlea  states  that  there  are  many  kinds  of  cocoas,  but  depending 
on  processing  they  may  be  separated  into  two  main  classifications:  (a) 
natural  and  (b)  Dutch. 

Natural-process  cocoas  have  had  no  alkalies  or  **Dutching  agents"  added 
during  manufacture.  Schaal  states  that  probably  about  75  per  cent  of  the 
cocoas  used  by  bakers  are  natural-processed  cocoas.  Some  chocolate  is  also 
"Dutch"  processed. 

Dutch-process  cocoas  have  been  treated  with  an  alkaline  solution  such  as 
potassium  carbonate,  ammonium  bicarbonate,  or  sodium  carbonate  or 
bicarbonate.  In  some  instances,  according  to  Zenlea,  the  cleaned  nibs  are 
actually  boiled  in  an  alkali  solution  as  strong  as  3  per  cent,  based  on  the 
weight  of  the  nibs.  In  commercial  practise  2  per  cent  of  alkali  is  more 
commonly  used.  To  complete  the  treatment,  the  water  is  evaporated  and 
the  Dutch  nibs  dried  in  a  roaster.  The  nibs  are  then  treated  in  the  same 
manner  as  nibs  for  natural-process  cocoas. 

Bywaters  gives  the  object  of  the  Dutch  process  as  follows :  ( 1 )  To  im- 
prove the  flavor,  (2)  to  improve  the  color,  (3)  to  improve  the  solubility, 
and  (4)  to  improve  the  digestibility.  The  proportion  of  cocoa  that  can  be 
dissolved  is  less  than  25  per  cent,  even  after  treatment.  The  treatment 


514  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

darkens  the  color.  Zenlea  states  that  natural  cocoas  have  a  pH  value  of 
5.2  to  6.0;  chocolate  5.1  to  6.2;  ''Dutched"  cocoas  have  a  pH  of  6.0  to 
7.5 ;  and  chocolate  a  pH  6.0  to  7.8.  The  reaction  depends  on  the  original 
pH  of  the  nibs  and  the  quantity  and  kind  of  alkali  added. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  some  organic  acids  such  as  acetic  and 
tartaric.  The  reaction  of  the  cocoa  determines  the  amount  of  soda  that  can 
be  neutralized  by  the  cocoa  or  chocolate  in  cooking.  Less  soda  should  be 
used  with  a  Dutched  cocoa  in  such  products  as  cake  and  cookies  in  which 
soda  is  used,  for  the  natural  acidity  of  the  cocoa  has  been  lessened  by  the 
creatment. 

Zenlea  describes  the  following  types  of  cocoas :  ( 1 )  Semi-cocoas,  not  on 
the  market  in  powder  form,  with  32  to  45  per  cent  fat  content,  and  used 
for  fine  quality  ice  cream  and  icings.  (2)  High-quality  cocoas  containing  25 
to  35  per  cent  fat.  A  higher  fat  content  would  prevent  their  preparation 
in  powder  form  and  a  lower  fat  content  causes  loss  of  aromatic  constitu- 
ents. (3)  Breakfast  cocoas  contain  not  less  than  22  per  cent  cocoa  butter. 
(4)  Semi-dry  cocoas  contain  15  to  18  per  cent  fat  and  are  used  for  malted- 
milk  mixtures  and  other  products  in  which  with  more  fat  there  is  difficulty 
in  keeping  the  fat  uniformly  distributed,  and  with  less  fat  the  cocoa  flavor 
is  too  strong.  (5),  (6),  and  (7)  Dry,  extra  dry,  and  very  dry  cocoas  con- 
tain 10  to  12,  8  to  9,  and  6^  to  7%  per  cent  of  fat,  respectively.  (8) 
Solvent  extracted  cocoas  contain  from  0.5  to  3.0  per  cent  fat  and  have 
practically  no  chocolate  flavor.  And  (9)  prepared  cocoas,  which  are  cocoa 
mixtures  containing  such  materials  as  sugar,  skim  milk,  and  malt. 

The  less  the  fat  content  of  the  cocoa  the  more  readily  it  absorbs  moisture 
from  the  air  and  the  greater  its  thickening  power  when  combined  with 
water. 

Zenlea  declares  the  ideal  temperature  and  humidity  for  storing  cocoa  to 
be  60-70°F.  and  50-65  relative  humidity.  Heat,  vibration,  and  moisture 
cause  cocoa  to  lump  and  lose  its  apparent  color,  which  makes  it  more  diffi- 
cult to  mix,  though  its  quality  may  not  be  damaged. 

The  use  of  chocolate  and  cocoa  in  cake.  The  factors  influencing  the  color 
of  chocolate  cake  may  be  listed  as  follows.  ( 1 )  Reaction.  This  is  probably 
the  most  important  factor  in  producing  a  red  mahogany-colored  chocolate 
cake,  the  cakes  having  this  color  usually  having  an  alkaline  reaction.  Grewe 
states  that  the  "color  constituent  of  chocolate  is  yellow  at  pH  5  and  changes 
to  red  at  pH  7.5,"  but  she  does  not  state  what  this  color  constituent  is. 

Schaal  states  that  whenever  the  pH  of  the  finished  cake  is  above  7.9, 
the  soda  taste  is  pronounced  and  objectionable.  He  recommends  that  hot 
water  and  soda  should  not  be  mixed  nor  the  soda  combined  with  the  choco- 
late and  hot  water,  for  leavening  gas  is  lost  and  the  cake  color  is  a  too 
**foxy"  red.  The  soda,  he  says,  may  be  creamed  with  the  shortening  and 
cocoa,  or  it  may  be  dissolved  in  the  cold  milk.  In  addition,  the  soda  may  be 
mixed  with  the  flour. 

Chocolate  has  a  slight  acidity  which  will   neutralize   a  small   amount 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE  515 

of  soda,  but  many  chocolate  cake  recipes  call  for  an  excess  of  soda,  which 
gives  an  alkaline  reaction.  As  the  excess  is  increased,  the  soapy,  bitter, 
alkaline  flavor  of  the  soda  becomes  more  evident.  Sweet  milk  and  soda  are 
likely  to  impart  a  deeper  red  or  mahogany  shade  than  sour  milk  and  soda, 
for  the  acidity  of  the  sour  milk  neutralizes  a  part  or  all  of  the  alkalinity  of 
the  soda,  the  extent  depending  upon  the  amount  of  soda  used.  The  use  of 
soda,  whether  enough  is  used  to  give  an  alkaline  reaction  or  not,  always 
darkens  the  color;  a  lighter  shade  is  obtained  with  baking  powder.  This 
darkening  is  probably  due  to  the  tannin  constituents,  for  similar  results 
are  obtained  with  molasses  or  sorghum  in  gingerbread,  the  shade  being 
darker  with  soda  and  lighter  when  baking  powder  is  used. 

(2)  Time.  This  factor  as  in  other  reactions  is  also  important,  the 
length  of  time  the  batter  containing  soda  stands  before  baking  influencing 
the  color  obtained.  It  has  been  found  that  cake  batter  which  has  stood 
10  to  15  minutes — some  cake  bakers  often  permit  it  to  stand  while  they 
bake  a  test  cake — usually  gives  a  richer  mahogany  shade  than  a  portion 
of  the  same  batter  baked  immediately  after  mixing.  These  results  have 
not  always  been  consistent  with  different  varieties  of  chocolate  and  cocoa, 
but  are  obtained  in  a  majority  of  the  experiments. 

(3)  The  quantity  of  chocolate  or  cocoa  used.  The  shade  is  darker  with 
a  larger  quantity. 

(4)  The  brand  of  chocolate  or  cocoa  used.  The  reasons  for  variation 
in  color  with  different  brands  of  chocolate  and  cocoa  have  been  indicated 
under  their  production.  There  is  also  a  difference  in  the  flavor  of  different 
brands  of  chocolate  and  cocoa. 

(5)  The  kind  of  baking  powder  used.  It  was  quite  a  surprise  to  find 
that,  when  butter,  sugar,  eggs,  and  chocolate  have  been  mixed  together 
(Experiment  85B,5),  then  divided,  and  a  different  baking  powder  used 
with  each  portion,  the  same  shade  is  not  obtained  with  all  the  different 
baking  powders. 

But  after  all  is  said,  why  try  to  develop  the  red  color?  The  very  rich 
mahogany  red  cannot  be  developed  except  with  an  alkaline  reaction,  which 
is  obtained  by  using  an  excess  of  soda.  It  has  been  the  experience  in  the 
author's  laboratory  that  nearly  all  the  students  prefer  the  flavor  of  choco- 
late cakes  that  do  not  contain  an  excess  of  soda.  An  excess  of  soda  destroys 
the  distinctive  chocolate  flavor,  and  if  a  chocolate  cake  is  eaten  for  real 
chocolate  flavor,  a  rich  brown  shade  will  be  preferred  to  the  mahogany  one. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  starch.  During  the  production  of  chocolate, 
part  of  the  starch  has  been  dextrinized,  and  this  partially  dextrinized  starch 
thickens  the  cold  cake  batter,  the  other  portion  of  the  starch  thickening 
when  heated.  For  this  reason  the  flour  used  in  chocolate  cakes  must  be 
reduced,  the  proportion  of  liquid  increased,  or  the  fat  and  sugar  increased. 
The  sugar  needs  to  be  increased  because  of  the  strong  flavor  of  the  choco- 
late. Although  chocolate  itself  contains  fat,  the  texture  and  perhaps  the 


516  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

flavor  are  Improved  if  the  chocolate  cake  recipe  contains  a  rather  high 
percentage  of  fat. 

White  cake.  White  cake  usually  contains  a  greater  proportion  of 
sugar  than  a  plain  cake.  Sometimes  it  contains  a  larger  proportion  of  fat 
too.  Egg  whites  are  added,  but  the  egg  yolks  are  omitted.  In  the  conven- 
tional method  of  mixing  white  cake  the  beaten  egg  whites  are  folded  into 
the  batter  after  the  other  ingredients  have  been  mixed. 

The  beaten  egg  white  may  also  be  folded  or  stirred  into  the  fat  and 
sugar  with  the  flour  and  milk.  This  method,  Experiment  86,6,  usually 
produces  a  cake  that  is  more  tender  than  the  cake  made  by  the  conven- 
tional method.  Stirring  the  beaten  egg  white  into  the  flour  mixture  is 
easier,  and  as  in  the  plain  cake  seems  to  give  as  good  results  as  folding. 
The  texture  of  the  white  cake  is  usually  better  if  the  flour  and  liquid  are 
added  in  portions  and  not  all  at  one  time. 

Gingerbread.  To  discuss  the  effect  of  manipulation  and  the  kind  and 
proportion  of  ingredients  used  in  gingerbread  would  be  only  to  repeat 
what  has  been  stated  under  muffins  and  cakes. 

Effect  of  alkali  upon  texture  of  gingerbread.  Soda  is  used  with  the 
molasses  or  sorghum  for  leavening  in  gingerbread.  Excess  soda  is  often 
used.  For  this  reason  gingerbread  offers  an  excellent  opportunity  to  observe 
the  effect  of  an  excess  of  alkali  upon  the  texture  and  the  flavor  of  a  batter. 

The  gluten  of  bread  dough  becomes  more  elastic,  more  extensible  and 
more  soluble,  i.e.,  dispersion  is  increased,  as  the  acidity  of  the  dough 
increases.  This  results  in  a  greater  volume  of  the  bread  until  a  degree  of 
acidity  is  reached  at  which  the  gluten  becomes  too  tender  to  stretch  as 
the  gas  forms.  At  this  point  some  of  the  gluten  films  break  and  the  cell 
walls  collapse.  As  the  acidity  is  increased,  more  and  more  cells  collapse 
and  a  bread  with  a  thicker,  coarser  texture  is  produced. 

The  gluten  also  becomes  more  elastic  and  more  extensible  with  alkalies. 
As  the  alkalinity  is  increased,  the  solubility  or  dispersion  of  the  gluten 
increases  more  rapidly  than  on  the  acid  side.  Thus  with  an  alkaline 
reaction  the  cell  walls  become  more  tender  and  collapse  more  quickly  than 
with  an  acid  reaction.  This  with  the  larger  proportion  of  liquid  gives  the 
typical  coarse  structure  of  some  gingerbreads  and  chocolate  cakes. 

Fortenbacker  and  Koch  made  a  study  of  the  effect  on  gluten  of  various 
concentrations  of  acids,  alkalies,  and  salts  found  in  baking  mixtures.  They 
found  the  gluten  to  be  more  soluble  in  alkaline  solutions,  for  concen- 
trations used  in  baking  mixtures,  than  in  acid  solutions.  In  fact,  the  gluten 
disintegrated  rapidly  in  alkaline  solutions  of  increasing  concentration,  so 
that  the  gluten  discs  could  be  left  in  only  for  short  periods  or  they  could 
not  be  lifted  to  be  weighed.  Because  of  the  gluten  being  dispersed  it  loses 
some  of  its  elasticity.  The  cakes  are  tender  owing  to  the  dissolving  of  the 
gluten. 

The  gingerbread  batter  like  all  cake  batters  contains  enough  buffer  sub- 
stances so  that  with  the  addition  of  alkali  it  does  not  become  as  alkaline 


GINGERBREAD  517 

as  it  otherwise  would.  Thus  with  the  addition  of  2  teaspoons  of  soda, 
Experiment  87,1,  the  batter  is  not  as  distinctly  alkaline  as  would  be 
expected,  though  the  flavor  is  quite  evident.  With  the  large  proportion  of 
soda  a  hollow  may  form  in  the  center  of  the  gingerbread  during  baking. 
This  is  more  likely  to  develop  if  the  batter  is  allowed  to  stand  a  short 
time  before  baking.  The  soda  causes  partial  dispersion  of  the  gluten.  The 
baking  sets  the  crust,  but  the  interior  of  the  cake  being  baked  last,  the 
soda  continues  its  action  on  the  gluten  during  part  of  the  baking  with 
the  result  that  the  cake  may  be  level  across  the  top  but  have  a  hollow 
in  the  center.  Sometimes  the  cake  sinks  across  the  top  instead  of  forming 
the  hollow  in  the  center.  With  longer  mixing  and  greater  attenuation  of 
the  gluten  the  sinking  does  not  occur. 

The  gingerbreads  containing  the  largest  proportion  of  soda  are  darker 
in  color.  This  is  due  to  several  factors,  i.e.,  the  effect  of  the  soda  on  the 
color  of  the  flour,  the  decomposition  of  the  monosaccharids  of  the  molasses 
by  the  soda,  but  principally  to  the  color  produced  by  the  tannins  of  the 
molasses  in  an  alkaline  solution.  The  gingerbreads  with  baking  powder  and 
soda  are  lighter  in  color.  The  flavor  of  the  gingerbread  made  with  baking 
powder  and  no  soda  is  different  from  that  of  gingerbread  containing  soda, 
particularly  when  a  strong  molasses  is  used,  probably  because  the  soda 
combines  with  some  of  the  ingredients  of  the  molasses,  thus  producing  a 
less  strong  flavor.  With  excess  soda,  its  soapy,  alkaline  flavor  is  evident. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Adam,  W.  B.     Determination  of  the  Color  Producing  Constituents  of  the  Cacao 

Bean.     Analyst  53:  369  (1928). 
Alexander,  G.  L.     Comments  on  the  Use  of  Calcium  Acid  Phosphate  as   an  Im- 
prover for  Soft  Wheat  Flour  Biscuits.     Cereal  Chem.  2:  370    (1925). 
Bailey,  C.  H.,  and  Le  Vesconte,  A.  L.     Physical  Tests  of  Flour  Quality  with  the 

Chopin  Extensimeter.     Cereal  Chem.  1:  38   (1924). 
Bailey,  L.  H.     Development  and   Use  of  Baking  Powder   and   Baking  Chemicals. 

U.  S.  Dept.  Agri.,  Circular  138,  Revised  Feb.    (1931). 
Barackman,  R.  A.     Chemical  Leavening  Agents  and  Their  Characteristic  Action 

in  Doughs.     Cereal  Chem.  8:  423    (1931). 
Barackman,   R.    A.,    and    Bailey,    C.    H.     Use    of    Phosphates    in    Bread    Making. 

Cereal  Chem.  4:  400   (1927). 
Bingham,  E.  C.     Fluidity  and  Plasticity.     McGraw-Hill  Co.   (1922). 
Buel,   E.    I.     Plain    Cake.     VIII.     The   Effect   of   the    Method    of    Mixing    on   the 

Texture,    Volume,    and    Palatability,    Using   Lard    as    the    Fat.     Unpublished 

Thesis    (M.S.).     Iowa   State  College    (1934). 
Bywaters,   H.   W.     Modern   Methods   of   Cocoa    and    Chocolate    Manufacture.     P. 

Blakiston's  Son  &  Co.     J.  &  A.  Churchill   (1930). 
Child,  A.  M.,  and  Purdy,  D.  I.     Method  for  Graphic  Record  of  Texture,  Volume, 

and  Contour  of  Cakes.     Cereal  Chem.  3:  57   (1926). 
Chittick,    J.    R.     Graphic    Baking    Powder    Chart.     Jaques    Manufacturing     Co. 

Chicago,  111. 
Daniels,  A.  L.,  and  Heisig,  E.  H.    The  Acidity  of  Various  Sirups  Used  in  Cooking. 

J.  Home  Econ.  11:  193  (1919). 


518  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Davis,  C.  E.,  and  Maveety,  J,  D.     Leavens;  Their  Action  and  Measurement.     Ind. 

Eng.  Chem.  14:  210  (1922). 
Fortenbacker,  J.     Effect  on   Gluten  of   Various   Concentrations   of   Acids,   Alkalies, 

and    Salts    Found    in    Baking    Mixtures.     Unpublished    Thesis     (M.S.).     Iowa 

State  College   (1922). 
Glabau,  C.  A.     Bakers'  Weekly  87:  54,  Aug.  24  (1935). 
Graham,  J.  B.     A  Comparison  of  the  Effect  of  a  Hydrogenated   Fat  and   Summer 

Butters  Churned  from  Cream  of  Varying  Acidity  upon  the  Volume,  Texture, 

and  Eating  Quality  of  Plain  Cake.     Unpublished  Thesis    (M.S.).     Iowa  State 

College    (1932). 
Grewe,  E.     Effect  of  Variation  in  Ingredients  on  Color  of  Chocolate  Cake.     Cereal 

Chem.  7:  59  (1930). 
Haldane,  J.  B.  S.     On  Being  the  Right  Size.     Harpers  152:  424  (1926). 
Halliday,   E.   G.     Effect  of   Beating   Cake   Made   with    Different   Baking   Powders. 

J.  Home  Econ.  12:  42  (1920). 
Halliday,  E.  G.,  and  Noble,  I.  T.     Hows  and  Whys  of  Cooking.     The  University 

of  Chicago  Press   (1928). 
Hart,  R.  W.     Leavening  Agents.     Chemical  Publishing  Co.    (1914). 
James,    L.    R.     A    Comparison    of    Some    Methods    of    Mixing    upon    the    Flavor, 

Tenderness,  and  Texture  of  Plain  Cake.     Unpublished  Thesis    (M.S.).     Iowa 

State  College  (1930). 
Jenkins,  C.  L.     A  Comparison  of  a  Hydrogenated  Fat  and  Butters  Churned  from 

Creams  of  Varying  Acidity  upon  the   Volume,  Texture,   and   Flavor  of   Plain 

Cake.     Unpublished  Thesis    (M.S.).     Iowa  State  College    (1931). 
Jensen,  H.  R.    Cacao  Tannin  and  Its  Determination.    Analyst  53:  365   (1928). 
Logue,   P.,   and   Ranker,   I.  T.     Leavening   Agents  for   Self   Rising   Flour.     Cereal 

Chem.  3:  335    (1926). 
Martin,    E.   L.     Plain    Cake.     V.     The    Creaming    Qualities    of    Lards    and    Other 

Fats  and   New  Ways   of  Mixing  Them   in   Plain   Cake.     Unpublished   Thesis 

(M.S.).     Iowa  State  College    (1933). 
McLean,  B.  B.     Plain   Cake.     VI.     The   Determination   of  the   Optimum    Quantity 

of    Three    Types    of    Baking    Powders.     Unpublished    Thesis     (M.S.).     Iowa 

State  College   (1933). 
Miller,  E.  W.,  and  Allen,  B.     Problems  in  Cake  Baking.     J.   Home  Econ.   10:  544 

(1918). 
Minard,   L.    C,     Plain    Cake.     IX.     The    Effect    of    Grainy    and    Smooth    Lard    on 

Fat  Distribution  as   Determined   by  Microscopical   Examination.     Unpublished 

Thesis    (M.S.).     Iowa   State  College    (1935). 
Minton,  P.  E.     Sugar.     American  Bakers  Association.     Cake   and  Retail   Bulletin. 

CR-4,  April   (1929). 
Montgomery,  E.     Method   for  Mixing  White   Cake  in  Experiment  86,5.     Personal 

Communication. 
Myers,  E.     Plain  Cake.     X.     Effect  of  Two  Temperatures  of  Ingredients  at  Time 

of  Combining  on  Fat  Distribution  as   Determined  by  Microscopical  Examina- 
tion.    Unpublished  Thesis   (M.S.).     Iowa  State  College    (1936). 
Noble,   I.  T.,    and   Halliday,   E.   G.     A   Quantitative   Measurement   of   the    Carbon 

Dioxide  Evolved   in  and  Lost  from   Simplified   Muffin  Batters.     Cereal   Chem. 

8:  165    (1931). 
Olsen,  A.  M.     The  Effect  of  Extent  of  Mixing  the  Ingredients  on  the   Staling  of 

Plain  Cake.     Unpublished  Thesis   (M.S.).     Iowa  State  College    (1931). 
Patterson,  P.  M.     The  Cake  Flour  Laboratory.     Cereal  Chem.   1:  159    (1924). 
Peet,  L.  J.,  and  Lowe,  B.    Starting  Baked  Products  in  Cold  Versus  Preheated  Ovens. 

Research  Bull.  Agri.  Expt.  Sta.     Iowa  State  College    (1937). 


POPOVERS 


519 


Peterson,   M.   W.     Baking   Flour    Mixtures    at   High    Altitudes.     Bull.    365.     Colo. 

Expt.  Sta.,  Fort  Collins,  Colo.    (1930). 
Piatt,  W.     Staling  of  Bread.     Cereal  Chem.  7:  1    (1930). 
Schaal,  A.  A.     The  Cocoa-Chocolate  Cake  Series.     Proceedings,  Am.  Soc.  Bakery 

Engineers,  March,  pp.  161-171   (1935). 
Smith,  F.  C,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     The  Effect  of  Chemical  Leavening  Agents  on  the 

Properties  of  Bread.     J.  Am.  Assoc,  of  Cereal  Chemists  8:  183    (1923). 
Stone,    A.    M.     Plain    Cake.     VII.     The    Determination    of   the    Optimum    Baking 

Temperature    for    Three    Types    of    Baking    Powders.     Unpublished    Thesis 

(M.S.).     Iowa  State  College  (1934). 
Swanson,    C.    O.     The   Theory   of    Colloidal    Behavior   in    Dough.     Cereal    Chem. 

2:  265  (1925). 
The  Procter  and  Gamble  Co.     The  Bakery  Research  Department.     Better  Cakes. 

Crisco  Bakery  Service  Series.     Number  6   (1930). 
The    Procter    and    Gamble    Co.     U.    S.    Patent    1,965,142.     Chem.    Abs.    28:    5551 

(1934). 
Woodruff,  S.     Weights  of  One  Cupful  of  Food  Materials.     J.  Home  Econ.  14:  270 

(1922). 
Zenlea,  B.  J.     There  Is  a  Cocoa  for  Every  Use.     Food  Ind.  6:  402   (1934). 
Zenlea,  B.  J.     Chocolate:  A  Food,  a  Confection,  an  Ingredient.     Food  Ind.  6:  500 

(1934). 

BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 
I.  Thin  Batters 


Experiment  77. 


Popovers 


To  determine  the  factors  that  afTect  the  texture  of  popovers. 
Recipe: 


Milk 


1  cup 
Eggs      2 

1  tablespoon 


Fat 


244  grams 
96  grams 
12  grams 


Flour 
Salt 


1  cup 

y2  teaspoon 


112  grams 


A.  Batter  just  mixed. 

Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Mix  only  enough  to  free  from  lumps.  Bake  the 
popovers  in  deep  cups  of  the  same  size,  shape,  and  material.  Grease  and 
fill  the  cups  Yi  full.  Use  3  cups  and  weigh  40  grams  of  batter  into  each  cup. 
Bake  one  at  180°  to  190°C.  (355°  to  375°F.),  one  at  220°  to  225°C.  (425° 
to  435°F.),  and  the  third  at  240°  to  250°C.  (465°  to  480°F.).  Save  the 
remaining  batter  for  part  B. 


Temperature  of 
baking 

Volume 

Appearance 

Texture 

Crust 

Inside 

180-190°C. 

220-225 

240-250 

520 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


B.  Batter  thoroughly  beaten. 

Beat  the  batter  remaining  from  A  vigorously  for  3  minutes.  Divide  into 
3  parts,  using  40  grams  of  batter  in  each  cup.  Bake  at  temperatures  given 
under  A. 


Temperature  of 
baking 

Volume 

Appearance 

Texture 

Crust 

Inside 

180-190°C. 

220-225 

240-250 

C.  Variations  in  proportions  of  ingredients. 

Bake  at  the  temperature  found  best  under  A  and  B. 

1.  Reduce  the  flour  in  the  recipe  to  %  cup. 

2.  Reduce  the  flour  in  the  recipe  to  ^  cup. 

3.  Omit  the  egg  in  the  recipe. 

4.  Increase  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  3. 

Considering  the  volume,  size  of  the  cavity,  the  appearance,  and  the  texture, 
does  the  beating  of  the  batter  produce  a  better  popover?  V^hich  proportion 
of  flour  gives  the  best  popover?  Which  is  the  best  temperature  for  baking? 
Does  the  egg  serve  as  a  liquid  or  as  a  thickening  agent?  What  effect  does 
the  egg  have  on  the  "lightness"  of  the  popover?  Does  it  serve  as  a  leavening 
agent  or  does  it  hold  the  shape  after  the  popover  is  leavened  by  something 
else?  What  is  the  means  of  leavening?  Can  the  egg  be  omitted?  Which  pro- 
portion of  egg  is  best? 


Voh 


Appearance 


Texture 


Flc 


Results  and  conclusions. 


Timbales 


Experiment  78. 

To  determine  the  best  proportions  for  timbale  cases  or  rosettes. 

Prepare  j4  oi  the  popover  recipe,  using  the  four  different  proportions  of 
flour  given  below.  Mix  the  batter  until  free  from  lumps.  Put  the  batter  into 
custard  cups  just  large  enough  to  hold  the  timbale  iron.  Cook  in  deep  fat. 
Heat  the  timbale  or  rosette  iron  with  the  fat.  Drain  the  timbale  iron  for 
a  short  time  or  wipe  the  fat  from  the  bottom  with  a  paper  towel  before  dip- 
ping   into    the    batter.    Start    cooking    the    timbales    at    175°C.    Increase    the 


CREAM  PUFFS 


521 


temperature  of  the  fat  and  determine   the   temperature   that  gives   the   best 
timbale. 

1.  Use  the  popover  recipe,  Experiment  77,  but  reduce  the  flour  in  the  recipe 
to  ^  cup. 

2.  Reduce  the  flour  in  the  popover  recipe  to  %  cup. 

3.  Use  the  proportion  of  flour  given  in  the  popover  recipe. 

4.  Increase  the  flour  in  the  popover  recipe  to  1^  cups. 

What  happens  if  the  timbale  iron  is  too  cold?  Too  hot?  If  the  drop  of 
fat  that  clings  to  the  bottom  of  the  timbale  iron  is  not  removed?  Which 
proportion  of  flour  makes  a  timbale  that  is  crisp,  of  desirable  thickness  to  hold 
food,  and  a  good  shape?  What  is  a  satisfactory  temperature  to  cook  timbales? 
If  the  batter  contains  small  lumps  does  this  affect  the  texture  of  the  timbale? 
Does  the  batter  contain  bubbles?  Do  they  affect  the  texture? 


Proportion  of  flour 
used 


Cooking 
temperature 


Appearance 


Texture 


Results. 


Cover  Batters 


Experiment  79. 

To  determine  the  best  proportion  of  ingredients  for  a  cover  batter. 

Prepare  }i  of  the  popover  recipe  using  the  four  different  proportions  of  flour 
given  in  Experiment  78  for  timbales.  Use  apple  rings  or  sliced  bananas.  Dip 
them  into  the  batter  and  then  cook  in  deep  fat.  Which  proportion  of  flour 
gives  a  good  cover  batter? 


Proportion  of  flour 
used 


Cooking 
temperature 


Appearance 


Texti 


Results. 


Cream  Puffs 


Experiment  80. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  influence  the  texture  of  cream  puffs. 
Recipe: 


Butter 
Boiling  water 


^2    cup 

1  cup 


112  grams 
240  grams 


Eggs 
Flour 


4 
1  cup 


192  grams 
112  grams 


522 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


A.  Temperature  of  baking. 

Prepare  %.  of  the  recipe.  To  the  boiling  water  add  the  butter;  then  the 
flour.  Stir  while  adding  the  flour  and  cook  until  the  material  has  a  tendency 
to  form  a  ball  and  leave  the  sides  of  the  pan.  The  paste  is  done  when  a 
metal  spoon  pressed  down  lightly  leaves  a  clear,  smooth  print.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  eggs  in  two  portions.  Beat  thoroughly  after  adding 
the  first  half  of  the  egg  and  until  smooth  and  even  in  texture  after  the  last 
half  is  added.  One-fourth  the  recipe  makes  3  fairly  large  puffs.  Drop  on  baking 
sheets  and  bake  at  the  following  temperatures:  190°  to  200°C.  (375°  to 
390°F.),  220°  to  225°C.  (425°  to  435°F.),  and  240°  to  250°C.  (465°  to 
480°F.).  Bake  until  the  puffs  are  quite  firm  to  the  touch.  If  any  become  too 
brown  lower  the  temperature  of  the  oven,  or  if  nearly  done  turn  off  the  gas 
and  let  set  in  the  oven  until  firm  to  the  touch. 

The  following  suggestions  for  records  of  the  experiments  with  cream  puffs 
are  given. 


Temperature 
of  baking 


Volume 


Appearance 


Texture 


Comments 


B.  Variation  in  the  amount  of  cooking  before  the  eggs  are  added. 

1.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe.  Cook  the  butter,  the  flour,  and  the  water  together 
until  the  emulsion  begins  to  break  and  the  mixture  looks  oily  on  the  surface. 
Remove  from  fire.  Weigh,  and  divide  into  2  equal  parts.  To  one  part  add  eggs 
for  34  the  recipe.  Use  the  other  part  for  B2.  Follow  directions  under  A  for 
baking  and  cooking,  or  bake  all  the  puffs  at  the  temperature  under  A  that  gave 
the  best  product. 

2.  Before  removing  from  the  fire  add  enough  boiling  water  to  give  a  smooth 
mixture  and  one  that  does  not  look  oily.  Keep  a  record  of  the  amount  of  water 
added.  Remove  from  the  stove  and  add  eggs. 

C.  Variation  in  extent  of  mixing  the  egg  with  the  cooked  paste. 

W^eigh  flour,  fat,  and  water  for  %  the  recipe  and  cook.  After  it  is  cooked 
weigh  and  divide  into  3  equal  parts.  Follow  directions  under  A  for  combining 
and  the  temperature  of  baking  found  best  under  A. 

1.  To  part  one  add  beaten  egg  for  ^4  the  recipe  and  mix  only  slightly  with 
the  paste.  This  makes  3  puffs.  Note  behavior  of  fat  in  the  puffs  while  baking. 

2.  To  part  two  add  beaten  egg  for  %  the  recipe.  Add  the  egg  in  two  por- 
tions and  beat  thoroughly  until  very  smooth  and  shiny. 

3.  Repeat  C2  but  cool  the  paste  before  adding  the  egg. 

D.  Variations  in  the  proportions  of  ingredients. 

1.  Omit  the  eggs  in  the  recipe. 

2.  Reduce  the  number  of  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  3. 

3.  Reduce  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  3  and  increase  the  water  to  1^4  cups. 

4.  Reduce  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  3  and  reduce  the  fat  to  34  cup. 

5.  Reduce  the  fat  in  the  recipe  to  yi  cup. 

Which  is  the  best  temperature  for  baking  cream  puffs?  How  much  water 
was  added  in  B2?  What  is  the  effect  on  volume  of  puffs  of  only  slightly  mixing 


WAFFLES  AND  GRIDDLE  CAKES  523 

the  eggs  with  the  paste  ?  Can  the  eggs  be  omitted  ?  Does  the  emulsion  hold  when 
the  eggs  are  reduced  to  3  or  does  the  fat  ooze  out  of  the  cream  puffs  while 
they  are  baking  in  the  oven?  Is  there  a  tendency  for  the  fat  to  be  retained 
better  when  the  eggs  are  reduced  to  3  if  the  water  is  increased?  Is  the  texture 
desirable  when  the  water  is  increased?  Does  the  emulsion  hold  in  baking 
when  both  the  fat  and  the  egg  are  reduced?  Is  a  good  volume  attained  with 
reduced  fat  and  egg?  If  water,  flour,  and  fat  are  over-cooked,  how  may 
this  be  remedied? 
Results. 

Medium  Batters 

Waffles  and  Griddle  Cakes 

Experiment  81. 

To  determine  when  baking  powder  should  be  added  to  a  batter. 
I.  To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  the  texture,  tenderness,  and  flavor  of 
wafl[les. 

Recipe  for  plain  waffles: 

Milk  1  cup  244  grams 

Eggs  2  96  grams 

Flour  1  to  1>^  cups  112  to  168  grams 

Oil  or  melted  fat  2  tablespoons  25  grams 

Salt  y2  teaspoon 

Baking  powder  0  to  \}4  teaspoons  0  to  6  grams 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  2  times.  Separate  the  yolk  and 
white  of  the  egg.  It  will  be  necessary  to  beat  at  least  a  whole  white  or  yolk; 
then  divide  it.  Mix  the  fat,  beaten  yolk,  salt,  and  milk.  Add  the  flour,  stir 
only  until  well  blended,  and  count  the  strokes  used  for  combining.  Beat  the 
egg  white  until  stiff  and  fold  into  the  batter.  Count  the  number  of  strokes 
used  for  folding  the  white.  Use  the  same  kind  of  baking  powder  for  all  the 
experiments  until  section  C  is  reached.  The  amount  of  ingredients  given 
under  each  experiment  is  for  the  full  recipe. 

Heat  the  waffle  iron.  Test  the  temperature,  if  the  iron  does  not  have  a 
temperature  indicator,  by  placing  a  drop  of  water  on  the  iron.  If  the  drop 
boils  rapidly  the  iron  is  hot  enough.  If  the  drop  boils  so  vigorously  that  it 
vaporizes  very  rapidly,  the  iron  is  too  hot.  It  is  better  to  have  the  waffle  irons 
of  the  same  make  and  type  for  some  experiments  so  that  the  depth  of  the  batter 
will  be  the  same  for  all  waffles.  Put  the  baked  waflSes  on  cake  coolers  until 
comparisons  are  made.  Putting  the  baked  waffles  on  plates  causes  the  under  side 
to  sweat  and  become  soggy.  To  keep  warm  place  wire  cake  cooler  with  waflUe 
in  slightly  warmed  oven. 

A.  The  time  of  baking  waffles. 

1.  Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Use  XYz  cups  of  flour  (150  grams),  and  4 
grams,  about  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  one  waffle  3  minutes,  one  4 
minutes,  and  one  5  minutes.  The  time  may  need  to  be  varied  depending  on  the 
temperature  maintained  by  the  iron.  Compare  for  crispness  and  tenderness. 

B.  Proportion  of  ingredients. 


524  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Prepare  }i  of  the  recipe.  Use  time  of  baking  found  best  under  A  for  a  guide. 
Will  the  thin  batters  under  1  and  2  require  a  longer  time  than  the  thick  ones? 
Apply  results  with  popovers  and  cream  puffs. 

1.  Use  1  cup  of  flour  and  omit  the  baking  powder. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  add  4  grams  of  baking  powder. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  increase  the  flour  to  ly^  cups  (150  grams). 

4.  Repeat  3,  but  add  4  grams  of  baking  powder. 

5.  Repeat  1,  but  increase  the  flour  to  1>^  cups  (168  grams),  and  add  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  (4  grams). 

6.  Repeat  5,  but  increase  the  baking  powder  to  6  grams. 

7.  Repeat  6,  but  increase  the  fat  to  ^  cup  (50  grams). 

8.  Repeat  7,  but  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  (25  grams). 

9.  Repeat  8,  but  increase  the  eggs  to  three. 

10.  Repeat  9,  but  increase  the  flour  to  1^  cups  and  the  baking  powder  to 
8  grams. 

11.  Use  the  following:  milk  1  cup,  fat  or  oil  3^  cup,  sugar  2  tablespoons, 
eggs  3,  flour  2  cups,  salt  1  teaspoon,  and  baking  powder  8  grams. 

12.  Repeat  11,  but  increase  the  baking  powder  to  12  grams. 

13.  Repeat  12,  but  increase  the  sugar  to  ^  cup  (100  grams).  If  brown 
sugar  is  used,  bake  at  a  little  lower  temperature  than  for  plain  waffles. 
Determine  the  time  of  baking  to  secure  a  crisp  waffle,  suitable  for  serving 
as  short  cake. 

14.  Repeat  13,  but  reduce  the  flour  to  1%  cups,  add  %  cup  of  cocoa  (28 
grams),  and  bake  with  waffle  iron  slightly  cooler  than  for  plain  waffles. 

C.  Kind  and  amount  of  baking  powder. 

1.  Use  the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  for  a  plain  wafl^e  under  B.  Use  4 
grams  of  a  tartrate  baking  powder.  Standardize  the  time  of  baking  the  waffles 
under  C. 

2.  Repeat  CI,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

3.  Repeat  CI,  using  sulfate-phosphate  powder. 

4.  Determine  the  most  desirable  quantity  of  each  baking  powder  to  use  with 
the  proportion  of  flour  preferred. 

D.  Extent  of  mixing. 

1.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe,  using  the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  under 
B.  Use  60  strokes  for  combining  the  flour  and  liquid.  Add  the  beaten  egg 
white,  keeping  a  record  of  the  number  of  folds  used. 

2.  Repeat  Dl,  but  use  120  strokes  for  mixing  the  flour  and  liquid.  Use 
same  number  of  strokes  for  folding  egg  white  as  used  under  Dl. 

E.  The  method  of  mixing. 

1.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe.  Use  the  method  given  above.  Use  the  same  propor- 
tion of  flour  and  baking  used  for  C  and  D.  Use  60  strokes  for  mixing  the 
flour  and  liquid.  Keep  record  of  number  of  strokes  for  folding  the  egg  white. 
Bake  all  waffles  under  E  for  the  same  length  of  time. 

2.  Repeat  El,  using  the  same  number  of  strokes,  but  stir  the  egg  white 
into  the  batter. 

3.  Repeat  El,  but  beat  the  whole  egg  until  light  and  foamy.  Fold  into 
the  batter,  using  same  number  of  strokes  as  for  the  egg  white. 

4.  Repeat  El,  but  add  the  fat  to  the  batter  just  before  adding  the  egg 
white.  The  total  number  of  strokes  for  mixing  flour  and  fat  should  be  60. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES  525 

What  length  of  time  of  baking  gives  the  best  waffle  ?  Does  crispness  depend 
upon  the  length  of  time  of  baking  or  proportion  of  ingredients  or  both?  Which 
proportion  of  flour  do  you  prefer  for  a  plain  waffle?  Which  proportions  are 
best  for  the  rich  waffle?  Is  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sufficient  for  the 
rich  waffles  or  do  they  need  3  ?  Is  there  any  difference  in  the  waffles  made 
with  the  various  types  of  baking  powders?  Should  the  quantity  of  baking 
powder  be  varied  for  each  type  of  powder?  What  is  the  effect  of  mixing  the 
batter  too  long  on  the  texture  and  tenderness  of  the  waffle?  May  the  length 
of  time  of  mixing  vary  with  the  different  proportions  of  flour?  Is  the  texture, 
tenderness,  or  crispness  affected  by  time  of  adding  the  fat?  The  egg  white? 
Which  is  preferable  to  use,  the  whole  beaten  egg,  or  the  separately  beaten  white 
and  yolk? 

Griddle  Cakes 

II.  To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  the  texture,  tenderness,  and  flavor 
of  griddle  cakes. 
Recipe: 

Milk  1  cup  244  grams 

Egg  1  48  grams 

Fat,  melted  2  tablespoons  25  grams 

Flour  IH  to  \%  cups  150  to  186  grams 

Salt  14  teaspoon  2  grams 

Baking  powder  About  1  to  2  teaspoons  4  to  8  grams 

Prepare  ^  the  recipe.  Use  the  baking  powder  indicated  for  experiments 
under  A.  Test  the  heat  of  the  griddle  by  baking  1  tablespoon  of  the  batter. 
It  should  be  possible  to  bake  the  cake  without  addition  of  fat  to  griddle.  The 
amount  of  ingredients  is  for  the  full  recipe.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  2  times.  Mix  the  well-beaten  egg,  milk,  melted  fat,  and  salt.  Add  flour 
and  stir  50  times  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Bake  the  whole  amount  as  one  griddle 
cake. 

A.  The  proportion  of  baking  powder. 

1.  Use  1^  cups  of  flour  and  4  grams  of  a  tartrate  baking  powder. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  using  6  grams  of  tartrate  powder. 

3.  Repeat  Al,  using  8  grams  of  a  tartrate  powder. 

4.  Repeat  Al,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

5.  Repeat  A2,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

6.  Repeat  A3,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

7.  Repeat  Al,  using  sulfate-phosphate   (S.-P.)  baking  powder. 

8.  Repeat  A2,  using  S.-P.  powder. 

9.  Repeat  A3,  using  S.-P.  powder. 

B.  The  amount  of  mixing. 

1.  Repeat  Al,  2  and  3  (or  any  third  of  A),  but  mix  120  strokes. 

C.  The  proportion  of  flour. 

1.  Use  lyi  cups  of  flour  and  proportion  of  baking  powder  found  best  under  A. 

2.  Repeat  CI,  using  1^  cups  of  flour. 

3.  Repeat  CI,  using  1^^  cups  of  flour. 

D.  Substituting  sour  milk  for  sweet  milk. 


526  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Repeat  section  C  but  substitute  sour  milk  for  the  sweet  milk  and  use  ^ 
teaspoon  soda  for  4  grams  of  the  baking  powder. 

Compare  the  griddle  cakes  for  texture,  tenderness,  and  lightness.  Which 
proportion  of  baking  powder  produces  the  lightest  product?  Should  the  amount 
of  baking  powder  be  varied  for  the  different  types  of  baking  powder?  Which 
proportion  of  flour  gives  the  best  griddle  cake  with  sweet  milk?  With  sour 
milk? 

When  should  baking  powder  be  added  to  a  batter?  Compare  the  amount 
of  baking  powder  needed  for  waffles  and  griddle  cakes. 

Stiff  Batters 

Muffins 

Experiment  82. 

To  determine  the  factors  which  affect  the  texture  of  muffins  and  the  amount 
of  mixing  required  with  different  types  of  baking  powders. 
Recipe: 

Flour  2  cups  224  grams 

Sugar  2  tablespoons  25  grams 

Milk  1  cup  244  grams 

Egg  1  48  grams 

Fat,  melted  or  oil  2  tablespoons  25  grams 

Baking  powder  12  grams 

Salt  y2  teaspoon  2  grams 

Directions  for  combining. 

Combine  the  milk,  beaten  tgg,  and  melted  fat.  Since  the  batter  is  mixed  very 
little  after  the  dry  ingredients  are  added,  it  is  better  to  beat  the  egg  enough 
so  that  it  readily  combines  with  the  milk,  or  beat  both  egg  and  milk  with  the 
egg  beater.  Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  twice.  Mix  the  sugar  and 
salt  with  the  flour.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  to  the  liquid,  and  stir.  Bake  the 
muffins  in  greased  cups  of  the  same  size  and  the  same  material.  The  sides  of 
the  cups  do  not  need  greasing,  but  the  bottoms  should  be  well  greased  to 
facilitate  removal  of  the  muffins  from  the  tins.  Decrease  the  baking  powder  to 
10  or  less  grams  or  increase  to  14  or  16  grams,  depending  on  the  type  of  flour 
used  and  the  altitude. 

A.  To  determine  the  effect  of  the  amount  of  mixing  upon  the  texture  and 
volume  of  muffins. 

1.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe.  Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder.  Notice  the  way 
the  batter  changes  while  mixing.  Describe  this  change.  Compare  the  volume 
of  the  batters  for  each  muffin.  Does  the  same  weight  of  batter  give  the  same 
volume  after  mixing  different  amounts? 

Stir  the  batter.  Combine  with  25  strokes.  For  a  medium-sized  pan  remove 
60  grams  of  batter  for  one  muffin.  Stir  the  remaining  batter  a  total  of  60 
strokes.  Remove  60  grams  for  another  muffin.  Stir  the  remaining  batter  a 
total  of  100  strokes.  Remove  60  grams  for  a  third  muffin.  Beat  the  remaining 
batter  a  total  of  300  strol'es  and  use  60  grams  for  the  fourth  muffin.  Bake 
at  210°C.   (410°F.). 


MUFFINS 


527 


2.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

3.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  S.-P.  powder. 
Brand  of  baking  powder  used: 


Amount  of 
mixing 


Appear- 
ance 


Shape  of 
top 


Voh 


Texti 


Tender- 
ness 


Flavor 


Results. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  the  volume  of  muffins  of 
adding  the  baking  powder  after  the  batter  has  been  mixed. 

1.  Prepare  %  of  the  recipe.  Reserve  the  baking  powder  to  add  later.  Use  a 
tartrate  baking  powder.  Stir  the  batter,  using  30  strokes.  Sift  the  baking 
powder  over  the  batter  and  stir  into  the  batter  with  15  strokes.  Notice  the 
consistency  of  the  batter  before  adding  the  baking  powder,  while  adding  the 
powder,  and  after  it  has  stood  a  few  seconds.  Divide  into  2  muffins  of  60  grams 
each. 

2.  Repeat  Bl,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

3.  Repeat  Bl,  but  use  S.-P.  baking  powder. 

What  is  the  effect  of  increased  mixing  on  the  texture  and  the  volume  of 
muffins  when  the  baking  powder  is  in  the  mixture  from  the  first?  What 
amount  of  mixing  produces  the  best  texture  in  muffins?  Does  this  vary  with 
the  different  baking  powders?  May  the  baking  powder  be  added  after 
the  batter  is  mixed?  Is  it  the  amount  of  mixing  or  the  mixing  when 
the  baking  powder  is  in  the  batter  or  both  that  has  the  greatest  effect 
upon  the  volume  and  the  texture  of  the  muffins?  Could  the  batter  be  beaten 
longer  than  30  strokes  before  adding  the  baking  powder  and  a  good  texture 
be  obtained? 

C.  To  determine  the  amount  of  mixing  that  gives  a  muffin  of  the  best  flavor, 
tenderness,  texture,  and  volume. 

1.  Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder.  Stir  a  total 
of  25  strokes.  Remove  60  grams  of  batter  for  one  muffin.  Stir  the  remaining 
batter  a  total  of  30  strokes.  Remove  60  grams  of  batter  for  a  second  muffin. 
Stir  the  remaining  batter  a  total  of  35  strokes.  Remove  60  grams  of  batter 
for  a  third  muffin.  Stir  the  remaining  batter  a  total  of  40  strokes  and  bake 
60  grams  for  a  fourth  muffin. 

2.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

3.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  S.-P.  powder. 

D.  Varying  the  proportion  of  baking  powder. 

1.  Repeat  either  or  all  of  CI,  C2,  and  C3  reducing  the  baking  powder  to 
10  grams. 

2.  Repeat  either  or  all  of  CI,  C2,  and  C3  increasing  the  baking  powder 
to  16  grams. 

Considering  tenderness,  texture,  volume,  and  flavor,  which  amount  of  mix- 
ing gives  the  most  desirable  muffin?  Do  5  additional  strokes  in  mixing  produce 
a  change  in  the  muffins? 


528  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

E.  Variations  in  proportion  of  ingredients. 

Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder  and  prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Mix  with  the 
number  of  strokes  found  best  under  C.  Weigh  60  grams  of  batter  into  a 
baking  cup.  Beat  the  remaining  batter  10  additional  strokes.  Bake  60  grams. 
If  desired,  the  series  may  be  repeated  with  phosphate  and  S.-P.  powders. 

1.  Use  the  regular  recipe  for  a  control. 

2.  Increase  the  fat  in  the  recipe  to  3  tablespoons. 

3.  Increase  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  to  3  tablespoons. 

4.  Increase  the  fat  to  3  tablespoons  and  the  sugar  to  3  tablespoons. 

5.  Increase  the  egg  in  the  recipe  to  2. 

6.  Omit  the  egg  in  the  recipe. 

Does  variation  of  the  proportion  of  the  ingredients  influence  the  amount 
of  mixing  required  for  the  muffins?  Which  proportion  of  ingredients  gives  a 
muffin  of  the  most  desirable  texture,  flavor,  and  volume? 

Doughs 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 
Experiment  83. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  influence  the  texture  of  baking  powder 
biscuits. 

Recipe: 


Flour 

2%  cups 

300.0  grams 

Fat 

4  tablespoons 

50.0  grams 

Milk 

^  to  1  cup 

188.0  to  244  grams 

Baking  powder 

12  grams 

Salt 

}4  teaspoon 

2  grams 

Directions  for  combining. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Add  the  fat  and  the  salt.  The  fat 
may  be  combined  with  the  flour  by  a  fat-flour  blender  or  by  using  the  tips  of  the 
fingers.  Portions  of  the  fat  and  flour  are  picked  up  and  rubbed  quickly  between 
the  fingers,  then  dropped  and  other  portions  of  the  flour  picked  up.  The  lifting 
of  the  portions  of  the  flour  and  fat  mixture  makes  it  more  light  and  fluffy. 
Avoid  mixing  until  a  hard  fat  is  melted  and  the  mixture  looks  oily  and  com- 
pact. After  the  fat  is  mixed  with  the  flour,  form  a  cavity  in  the  center  of  the 
flour  mixture.  Pour  the  milk  in  this  cavity  and  begin  to  stir.  The  stirring  may 
be  done  with  a  fork  or  a  spoon.  The  following  directions  are  for  mixing  with 
a  three-tined  fork,  as  the  fork  seems  to  leave  the  dough  lighter  and  more  fluffy 
than  a  spoon.  After  the  milk  has  been  mixed  for  the  designated  amount  with 
the  flour  mixture,  remove  the  ball  of  dough  from  the  mixing  bowl  with  a 
spatula  and  place  it  on  a  thin  layer  of  flour  on  a  bread  board.  Handle  the  dough 
gently  and  roll  it  without  compressing  it  in  the  flour,  until  the  sticky  surface 
is  covered.  Remove  to  a  lightly  floured  part  of  the  bread  board.  "Lightly 
floured"  means  with  a  very  thin  layer  of  flour.  Knead  the  dough  gently  the 
amount  specified  and  place  an  embroidery  hoop  over  the  dough.  Roll  and  then 
cut  with  biscuit  cutters  of  the  same  size  for  all  the  experiments.  The  embroid- 
ery hoop  is  used  so  that  the  biscuit  dough  will  be  the  same   thickness   and 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS  529 

the  volume  of  the  biscuits  can  be  compared.  Bake  at  220°  to  230°C.  (425° 
to  455 °F.).  The  dough,  instead  of  being  kneaded,  can  be  lightly  flattened  into 
a  square.  Fold  once  and  roll.  Repeat  3  more  times. 

A.  To  determine  the  best  proportion  of  liquid  for  the  flour  used  in  this 
experiment. 

Brand  of  flour  used: 

The  flours  most  often  used  in  some  sections  of  the  United  States  are  from 
soft-wheat  flours.  Other  sections  use  bread  flour.  Since  the  proportion  of 
liquid  that  gives  the  best  flavor,  texture,  and  the  most  tender  biscuit  varies 
with  different  flours  it  will  be  necessary  to  determine  this  first. 

Prepare  the  full  recipe.  After  the  fat  has  been  mixed  with  the  flour  divide 
into  four  portions,  using  87  grams  in  each  part. 

1.  To  part  one  add  61  grams  of  milk.  The  water  of  the  milk  is  equivalent 
to  about  70  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  flour.  Stir  30  strokes  with  a  three- 
tined  fork.  By  this  time  the  dough  should  be  in  a  ball.  Remove  the  dough  with 
a  spatula,  roll  in  flour,  and  knead  10  times.  Roll  and  cut. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  to  part  two  add  55  grams  of  milk,  about  64  per  cent 
of  liquid. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  to  part  three  add  51  grams  of  milk,  about  60  per  cent. 

4.  Repeat  1,  but  to  part  four  add  47  grams  of  milk,  about  55  per  cent  of 
liquid. 

B.  To  determine  the  amount  of  manipulation  that  gives  a  biscuit  of  the 
best  texture  and  volume  for  a  drop  biscuit. 

1.  Prepare  Yt,  of  the  recipe.  Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder.  Use  the  propor- 
tion of  milk  found  best  under  A.  Mix  20  strokes  with  a  three-tined  fork. 
Remove  30  grams  of  the  dough,  weighing  on  a  piece  of  wax  paper  and  then 
remove  to  the  baking  sheet. 

2.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  1  a  total  of  25  strokes.  Remove  30  grams 
for  a  biscuit. 

3.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  2  a  total  of  30  strokes.  Remove  30  grams 
of  dough  for  one  biscuit. 

4.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  3  a  total  of  35  strokes.  Remove  30  grams 
for  a  fourth  biscuit. 

5.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  4  a  total  of  100  strokes.  Bake  30  grams 
for  a  fifth  biscuit. 

C.  Repeat  B,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

D.  Repeat  B,  but  use  S.-P.  baking  powder. 

E.  To  determine  the  amount  of  manipulation  to  give  a  rolled  biscuit  of  the 
best  volume  and  texture. 

al.  Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe,  using  the  proportion  of  milk  found  best  under 
A.  Mix  30  strokes  with  a  threc-tined  fork.  Remove  to  the  bread  board. 
Divide  into  thirds.  Knead  ^  of  the  dough  lightly  10  times,  place  an  em- 
broidery hoop  over  the  dough,  roll  and  cut. 

2.  Knead  Y^  of  the  dough  from  1,  20  times,  roll  and  cut. 

3.  Knead  Yi  o^  the  dough  from  1,  30  times,  roll  and  cut. 

bl.  Prepare  Y^  o^  the  recipe,  using  the  proportion  of  milk  found  best  under 
A.  Mix  20  strokes  with  a  three-tined  fork.  Remove  Yi  o^  the  dough  and 
knead  10  times.  Roll  and  cut. 


530  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

2.  Stir  the  remaining  dough  from  4  a  total  of  30  strokes.  Remove  Yz  of 
the  dough  and  knead  10  times.  Roll  and  cut. 

3.  Stir  the  remaining  dough  from  5  a  total  of  40  strokes.  Knead  10  times, 
roll  and  cut. 

F.  To  determine  the  proportion  of  fat  that  gives  a  biscuit  of  the  best  flavor 
and  texture. 

1.  Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Use  the  proportion  of  milk  found  best  under 
A  and  the  amount  of  mixing  found  best  under  E. 

2.  Repeat  Fl,  but  decrease  the  fat  to  37.5  grams  for  the  full  recipe. 

3.  Repeat  Fl,  but  increase  the  fat  to  75  grams  for  the  full  recipe. 

Section  F  can  be  repeated  and  such  different  kinds  of  fat  as  butter,  lard, 
hydrogenated  lard,  hydrogenated  cottonseed  oil,  and  oil  used. 

G.  To  determine  the  best  temperature  for  baking  biscuits  when  different 
types  of  baking  pow^ders  are  used. 

1.  Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  Use  the  proportion  of  milk  found  best  under 
A,  and  the  amount  of  mixing  found  best  under  E.  Use  a  tartrate  baking 
powder.  Divide  the  dough  into  three  biscuits  and  bake  one  at  190°  to  195°C. 
(375°  to  385°F.),  one  at  220°  to  225°C.  (425°  to  435°F.),  and  one  at 
240°  to  250°C.  (465°  to  480°F.). 

2.  Repeat  Gl,  but  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder.  Do  the  results  under  C 
indicate  that  the  amount  of  mixing  should  be  changed  for  a  phosphate  baking 
powder? 

3.  Repeat  Gl,  but  use  S.-P.  powder.  Should  the  amount  of  mixing  be 
increased  for  this  type  of  baking  powder?  See  D. 

Which  proportion  of  milk  gives  the  best  volume  and  the  best  texture?  Would 
this  be  the  best  proportion  for  all  kinds  and  grades  of  flour?  Why?  Might 
there  be  slight  differences  in  the  hydration  capacity  of  the  same  flour  at  vari- 
ous times  of  the  year?  Why?  Should  you  use  more  or  less  water  in  biscuits 
to  produce  the  same  result  when  water  is  substituted  for  milk?  Why?  What 
amount  of  mixing  gives  the  best  texture  with  each  baking  powder?  What  is  the 
effect  of  kneading  upon  the  texture?  Is  It  desirable?  What  amount  of  knead- 
ing and  stirring  gives  the  best  texture  for  the  flour  you  are  using?  Which 
proportion  of  fat  produces  the  best  flavor  and  texture?  If  the  amount  of  fat 
in  the  recipe  Is  Increased,  should  the  liquid  be  increased  or  decreased?  Do 
you  find  much  difference  In  the  baking  temperatures  required  for  the  dif- 
ferent baking  powders?  Theoretically,  which  temperature  should  be  best  for 
each  powder? 

Results  and  conclusions. 

Suggestions  for  Additional  Experiments  for  Biscuits 

1.  Repeat  A,  B,  and  E  with  a  different  type  of  flour,  i.e.,  soft-  instead  of 
hard-wheat  or  vice  versa;  whole-wheat  or  part  whole-wheat  and  part  white 
flour. 

2.  Repeat  A,  B,  and  E  with  sour  milk  or  water. 

3.  Use  the  different  types  of  baking  powders  and  hold  biscuits  in  the  re- 
frigerator for  several  hours  before  baking. 

4.  Increase  the  baking  powder  In  the  recipe  to  14,  16,  or  18  grams.  Does  It 
Improve  the  texture?  The  flavor? 


PLAIN  CAKE  531 

Plain  Cake 
Experiment  84. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  affect  the  texture  and  flavor  of  plain  cake. 
Plain  cake  recipe: 

Butter            }4  cup      112  grams       Family  flour  2%  cups          300  grams 
Sugar              1  cup       200  grams           or 

Eggs               2                 96  grams       Cake  flour  3  cups              300  grams 

Milk                1  cup       244  grams       Baking  powder  10  grams 

Salt  yi  teaspoon        2  grams 

Pastry  or  soft-wheat  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  the  all-purpose  hard-wheat 
flour.  Flavoring  is  added  during  creaming  for  home  use,  but  may  be  omitted 
for  experimental  work.  Stirring  is  going  round  and  round  the  mixing  bowl, 
either  rapidly  or  slowly;  beating  is  pulling  the  utensil  across  the  contents  of 
the  mixing  bowl.  The  directions  for  all  the  mixing  are  for  stirring.  If  the 
class  decides  to  beat  the  batter  instead  of  stirring,  this  should  be  understood 
before  starting  the  mixing  so  that  all  will  use  uniform  methods.  Bake  at 
185°C.  (365°F.). 

A.  To  determine  the  amount  of  mixing  that  gives  the  best  texture  for  a 
plain  cake  with  different  types  of  baking  powders. 

1.  Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder. 
Brand  of  baking  powder  used: 

Pans.  Pans  5  by  2^  by  2^  inches,  and  2  cups'  capacity,  are  a  good  size  for 
1/6  of  the  above  recipe.  If  larger  or  smaller  pans  are  used,  prepare  the  pro- 
portion of  the  recipe  needed  for  the  size  of  the  pan.  Muffin  pans  may  be  used. 
If  they  are  medium  size  and  60  grams  of  batter  are  used  for  each  cake,  only 
Yz  of  the  recipe  should  be  prepared.  Line  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  wax  or 
heavy  plain  paper.  Grease  the  paper  on  the  side  next  to  the  batter.  The  sides 
of  the  pan  do  not  need  greasing. 

Prepare  the  whole  recipe.  Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  2  times. 
It  can  be  sifted  on  squares  of  paper  or  in  bowls.  It  is  preferable  to  have 
Incubated  the  ingredients  or  put  them  in  the  room  previous  to  starting  work 
so  that  their  temperature  is  about  25°  to  27°C.  If  this  is  not  possible,  place 
the  butter  over  warm,  not  hot,  water  and  stir  while  softening  it.  Since  the  fat 
alone  does  not  hold  much  air  when  stirred  or  creamed  but  does  hold  air  after 
the  sugar  is  added,  some  sugar  should  be  added  at  the  start  of  the  creaming 
process.  If  creaming  is  done  on  a  machine,  add  all  the  sugar  to  the  fat  at 
first,  in  order  to  standardize  the  procedure.  Creaming  is  more  rapid  when 
done  by  hand,  if  the  sugar  is  added  gradually.  Cream  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  all  the  flour  and  all  the 
milk  to  the  butter  mixture.  Begin  to  stir;  notice  any  changes  that  occur  in  the 
batter  while  stirring.  Stir  50  strokes.  Remove  150  grams  of  the  batter  and 
weigh  into  a  cake  pan.  Note  the  position  of  the  batter  that  drops  from  the 
edge  of  the  spoon  in  relation  to  the  pan  in  the  last  cakes.  Do  any  tunnels 
develop  at  these  spots  in  the  cakes? 

2.  Stir  the  batter  remaining  from  1  a  total  of  150  strokes.  Notice  any 
changes  in  the  batter.  Use  150  grams  of  batter  for  the  second  cake. 


532 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


3.  Stir  the  batter  remaining  from  2  a  total  of  200  strokes.  Note  any  changes 
in  the  batter.  Use  150  grams  of  batter  for  the  third  cake. 

4.  Stir  the  batter  remaining  from  3  a  total  of  300  strokes.  Remove  150 
grams  of  batter  for  the  fourth  cake. 

5.  Stir  the  batter  remaining  from  4  a  total  of  400  strokes.  Note  any  changes 
in  the  batter.  Bake  150  grams  of  the  batter. 

5.  Stir  the  batter  remaining  from  5  a  total  of  1000  strokes.  Note  any  changes 
that  occur  in  the  batter.  Use  150  grams  of  batter  for  a  sixth  cake. 

The  following  headings  are  suggested  for  records  for  cakes.  The  shape 
of  the  top  and  the  relative  volumes  may  be  sketched  in  quickly. 


Total 
mixing 


Appear- 
ance of 
crust 


Shape  of 
top 


Volume 


Texture 


Tender- 
ness 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

B.  Repeat  A,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 
Brand  of  baking  powder  used: 

C.  Repeat  A,  using  S.-P.  baking  powder. 
Brand  of  baking  powder  used: 

A,  B,  and  C.  What  is  a  desirable  amount  of  mixing  for  each  type  of  baking 
powder  for  a  very  plain  cake?  With  which  baking  powder  can  the  most  mixing 
be  used?  With  which  can  the  least  be  used?  Describe  the  way  the  batter 
changes  during  the  mixing.  Does  it  vary  with  the  different  baking  powders? 
How  long  are  the  strands  of  batter  that  fall  from  the  spoon  during  the  differ- 
ent stages  of  mixing? 

D.  To  determine  the  optimum  amount  of  baking  powder. 

Prepare  1/6  or  ^  the  recipe  according  to  the  size  of  the  baking  pan  used. 
Increase  the  sugar  to  1^  cups.  For  1/6  the  recipe  bake  150  grams  of  batter, 
for  34j  235  grams.  Add  the  flour  by  method  a,  b,  or  c,  but  use  only  one  method 
throughout  the  experiment.  Use  225  strokes  for  combining  the  flour  and  milk 
with  the  creamed  mixture. 

All  the  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs  for  one  section  can  be  creamed  together 
thoroughly  and  divided  into  6  equal  parts. 

Method  a  for  adding  flour.  (Flour  first  and  last.) 


and  stir  25  additional  strokes  or  a  total  of  75.  Add  another  third  of  the  flour 
and  stir  a  total  of  125  strokes.  Add  ^  of  the  milk  and  stir  a  total  of  150 
strokes.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  stir  a  total  of  225  strokes. 

Method  b  for  adding  the  flour. 

Add  approximately  ^  of  the  flour  and  Yi  of  the  milk.  Stir  75  strokes.  Add 
another  ^  of  the  flour  and  ^  of  the  milk  and  stir  a  total  of  150  strokes.  Add 
rest  of  flour  and  milk  and  stir  a  total  of  225  strokes. 

Method  c  for  adding  flour.  (Milk  first  and  last.) 

Add  2/3  of  the  milk  to  the  creamed  mixture  and  stir  5  strokes.  Add  all  the 


PLAIN  CAKE  533 

flour  and  stir  a  total  of  175  strokes.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  stir 
a  total  of  225  strokes. 

a.  Use  a  tartrate  baking  powder. 

1.  Use  6  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

2.  Use  8  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

3.  Use  10  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

4.  Use  12  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

5.  Use  14  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

6.  Use  16  grams  of  baking  powder  for  the  full  recipe. 

b.  Repeat  section  D,a,  using  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

c.  Repeat  section  D,a,  using  an  S.-P.  baking  powder. 

Which  amount  of  powder  produces  the  best-textured  cake  with  a  tartrate, 
phosphate,  and  S.-P.  baking  powder  respectively?  Do  all  members  of  the  class 
agree  on  which  amount  is  preferable?  Might  the  optimum  amount  vary  with 
the  maker's  technic?  With  other  factors?  Enumerate.  What  is  the  effect  on 
volume,  texture,  velvetiness,  and  crumbliness  of  cake  of  a  small  amount  of 
powder?  Of  the  large  amounts?  Which  amounts  of  baking  powder  yield  cakes 
that  stale  rapidly? 

E.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  temperature  of  baking  and  the 
method  of  combining  ingredients  for  a  plain  cake. 

Prepare  ^4  or  the  proportion  of  recipe  desired.  Increase  the  sugar  to  1^ 
cups.  Use  225  strokes  for  combining  the  flour  and  milk  with  the  creamed 
mixture.  For  %  the  recipe,  235  grams  of  batter  should  be  weighed  into  the 
baking  pan;  for  1/6  use  150  grams.  Use  the  proportion  of  baking  powder 
found  best  under  D,  but  use  the  same  kind  of  powder  for  all  of  section  E. 

1.  Conventional  method.  Cream  enough  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs  for  3  cakes. 
Add  the  sugar  gradually  to  the  butter,  and  cream  thoroughly.  Add  the  beaten 
egg  and  mix  until  light  and  fluffy.  Divide  into  3  equal  parts.  If  using  %  the 
recipe,  weigh  out  124  grams  for  each  cake  unless  a  smaller  amount  is  neces- 
sary to  divide  the  creamed  mixture  evenly. 

\a.  To  part  1  of  the  creamed  mixture  add  the  flour  by  method  a  given 
under  D. 

\b.  To  the  second  part  add  the  flour  by  method  b  under  D. 
\c.  To  the  third  part  add  the  flour  by  method  c  under  D. 

2.  Muffin  method.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  the  flour  together  2  times. 
Use  melted  butter.  Beat  the  egg.  Combine  the  liquid  ingredients.  Add  dry 
ingredients  to  the  liquid  ones  and  mix  225  strokes. 

3.  Separating  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg.  Prepare  ^  or  proportion  of 
recipe  desired.  Separate  the  white  and  yolk  of  the  egg.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  thoroughly.  Add  the  yolks  to  the  creamed  butter  and  mix  until  light 
and  spongy.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together  2  times.  Add  the  flour 
and  milk  according  to  method  c  under  section  D,  but  stir  only  a  total  of  160 
strokes  after  adding  the  flour  and  195  after  adding  the  last  of  the  milk.  Add 
the  beaten  egg  white  and  fold  30  strokes  with  a  spatula  or  stir  with  the  spoon. 
Divide  into  three  cakes,  using  equal  weights  of  batter  for  each  cake.  Bake  one 
at  185°C.  (365°F.),  the  second  at  a  lower  temperature,  and  the  third  at  a 
higher  temperature. 

4.  Cake-mixer  method.  Cream  butter,  sugar,  and  egg  for  3  cakes.  Have  the 


534  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

butter  room  temperature  or  about  25°C.  Add  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg, 
and  cream  until  very  light  and  spongy.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  2  times.  Divide  the  creamed  mixture  into  three  equal  parts. 

4a.  To  part  1  of  the  creamed  mixture  add  the  flour  by  method  a  under 
section  D. 

4b.  To  part  2  add  the  flour  by  method  b  under  section  D. 

4c.  To  part  3  add  the  flour  by  method  c  under  section  D. 

5.  Emulsion  method.  Beat  the  egg  slightly.  Melt  the  butter  carefully  so 
that  it  does  not  reach  a  high  temperature.  Add  a  few  drops  of  the  melted 
butter  to  the  egg  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater.  After  the  emulsion  is  started 
add  more  butter.  The  butter  is  added  to  the  egg  in  the  same  manner  as  in 
making  mayonnaise.  After  the  butter  is  added  to  the  egg  add  the  sugar  grad- 
ually. Sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together  2  times.  Add  the  flour  and 
milk  by  method  a,  b,  or  c  under  section  D. 

6.  Conventional-sponge.  Prepare  ^  or  proportion  of  recipe  desired.  Cream 
>4  of  the  sugar  and  fat  thoroughly.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  with  which  the 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted  2  times,  and  fold  20  times.  Add  >^  of  the 
remaining  flour  and  Yz  of  the  milk  and  stir  75  additional  strokes  or  a  total 
of  95.  Repeat,  adding  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  milk.  Total  strokes  170.  Beat 
the  egg,  adding  the  remaining  sugar  gradually,  until  mixture  Is  very  light  and 
looks  like  sponge  cake  batter.  Combine  quickly  with  the  cake  batter  using  55 
strokes,  making  a  total  of  225  strokes  after  starting  to  add  the  flour. 

7.  Repeat  E6  using  melted  butter  or  oil,  or  both.  In  addition  a  soft  lard 
may  be  used.  For  fats  other  than  butter  increase  the  salt  to  4  grams. 

8.  When  an  oil  or  soft  fat  is  used,  a  much  better  texture  is  obtained  if  the 
egg  goes  into  the  cake  batter  late  in  the  mixing  process,  for  less  fat  is  emulsi- 
fied as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion.  Increase  the  salt  to  4  grams  for  fats  other 
than  butter.  Some  other  methods  that  may  be  tried  are: 

a.  Combine  by  any  method  desired  but  add  the  thoroughly  beaten  whole 
egg  last. 

b.  Combine  the  egg  with  the  milk. 

Which  method  of  mixing  gives  the  best  cake?  Is  one  method  of  adding  the 
flour  preferable  to  another?  Which  method  of  adding  the  flour  is  quickest  and 
easiest?  Should  cakes  made  with  different  fats  always  be  combined  by  the  con- 
ventional method  or  can  different  methods  be  used  to  advantage  for  some  fats 
and  oils?  Is  there  any  advantage  in  separating  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg  in 
a  plain  cake? 

F.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  proportion  of  the  ingredients  in 
the  plain  cake  recipe  upon  texture,  volume,  and  flavor. 

Prepare  the  full  recipe  unless  otherwise  indicated.  Cream  by  the  method 
decided  upon  by  the  class.  Follow  directions  under  A.  Use  a  tartrate  baking 
powder  and  divide  the  batter  into  six  cakes  of  150  grams  each.  Notice  any 
changes  occurring  in  the  batter  during  mixing. 

1.  Increase  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  4.  Prepare  Yz  the  recipe,  using  a  total 
of  100,  150,  and  200  strokes  respectively  for  the  three  cakes. 

2.  Repeat  Fl,  but  separate  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg.  Add  the  beaten 
white  with  the  flour  and  milk. 

3.  Increase  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  to  U^  cups. 


PLAIN  CAKE 


535 


4.  Increase  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  to  2  cups.  Stir  the  left-over  batter  from 
the  sixth  cake  a  total  of  1500  strokes  and  bake  150  grams  for  a  seventh  cake. 

5.  Increase  the  fat  in  the  recipe  to  ^  cup.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe  using  a 
total  of  100,  150,  and  200  strokes  for  the  three  cakes. 

6.  Increase  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  to  1^  cups,  the  fat  to  ^  cup,  and  the 
eggs  to  3.  A  seventh  cake  may  be  baked  from  the  batter  left  over  after  weigh- 
ing the  sixth  cake.  It  should  be  stirred  1500  strokes. 

7.  Increase  the  flour  in  the  recipe  to  3^^  cups.  Prepare  Yz  the  recipe  using 
a  total  of  100,  150,  and  200  strokes  for  the  three  cakes. 


Characteristic 

appearance  of 

crust 


Shape  of 

top  and 

edges 


Voli 


Texture 


Tender- 
ness 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 

Give  characteristic  differences  in  the  appearance  of  the  crust  for  each  series 
as  the  mixing  is  increased.  The  characteristic  differences  in  crust  w^hen  the 
proportion  of  different  ingredients  are  changed.  Compare  the  texture  of  each 
series.  Of  the  different  series.  What  is  the  effect  on  the  volume  of  increasing 
the  different  ingredients?  Which  amount  of  mixing  gives  a  cake  of  the  best 
texture  in  each  series?  Do  the  cakes  with  the  best  texture  usually  have  the 
best  flavor?  The  increase  of  which  ingredients  increases  tenderness,  volume, 
velvetiness,  toughness,  and  breadiness  of  the  cake? 

G.  To  determine  the  effect  on  the  texture,  volume,  and  flavor  of  plain  cake 
of  varying  the  ingredients  used. 

Prepare  1/6  of  the  recipe.  Use  the  proportion  of  ingredients  found  best 
under  F  and  the  type  of  baking  powder  desired.  Combine  by  whatever  method 
the  class  decides  to  use  and  mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  that  will  give 
the  best  texture  for  the  brand  of  baking  powder  used.  Use  150  grams  of  batter 
for  each  cake. 

1.  Liquid. 

Use,  (a)  milk;  (b)  water;  (c)  orange  juice;  (d)  pineapple  juice;  (e)  sour 
cream;  and  (f)  sour  milk.  What  other  changes  will  need  to  be  made  for  (e) 
and(f)? 

2.  Sugar. 

Use  different  kinds  of  granulated  sugar  obtainable,  such  as  (a)  fine  gran- 
ulated, berry,  and  transformed;  (b)  powdered  sugar;  and  (c)  brown  sugar. 
Always  substitute  sugar  by  weight. 

3.  Fat. 

Double  the  salt  for  all  fats  other  than  butter.  Use,  (a)  butter;  (b)  different 
types  of  lard,  i.e.,  grainy  and  smooth,  and  prime-steam  and  open-kettle 
rendered;  (c)  oil;  (d)  Crisco;  (e)  Spry;  and  (f)  any  other  fat  commonly  used 
in  your  locality. 

4.  Flour. 

Use,  (a)  a  hard-wheat  all-purpose  flour;  (b)  a  soft-wheat  all-purpose;  and 
(c)  a  specially  prepared  cake  flour. 


536 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


Chocolate  Cake 
Experiment  85. 

A.  To  determine   the   amount  of  mixing  to  give   the   best  texture    and   the 
best  method  of  mixing  for  a  rich  chocolate  cake. 
Recipe:^ 


Butter 

\yi  cups 

280  grams 

Baking  powder 

16  grams 

Sugar 

2X  cups 

450  grams 

Vanilla 

1  teaspoon 

Eggs 

4 

192  grams 

Salt 

2  grams 

Chocolate 

4  squares 

113  grams 

Cake  flour 

3  cups 

300  grams 

Milk 

1  cup 

244  grams 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  2  times  for  all  the  following 
experiments. 

1.  Mix  by  any  of  the  methods  given  below,  but  it  will  be  necessary  to  add 
all  the  flour  and  milk  at  one  time.  The  full  recipe  will  make  10  cakes  of 
150  grams  each,  so  that  portions  of  the  batter  may  be  removed  after  stirring 
50,  100,  150,  200,  250,  300,  350,  400,  500,  and  1000  strokes.  For  high  altitudes 
the  proportion  of  fat,  sugar,  and  baking  powder  may  need  to  be  reduced. 

2.  Conventional  method.  Prepare  %  of  the  recipe.  Cream  the  butter,  flavor- 
ing, salt,  and  sugar  until  very  light  and  spongy.  Add  the  beaten  egg  and 
mix  until  very  fluffy.  Melt  the  chocolate  carefully  over  warm  water.  Do  not  let 
it  get  too  hot,  as  it  should  not  melt  the  butter.  Add  to  the  butter  mixture 
and  stir  thoroughly.  For  adding  the  flour  and  milk  follow  directions  under 
Experiment  84D,  method  a,  b,  or  c,  but  mix  a  total  of  350  strokes  or  the 
number  found  best  under  85,1.  For  a  loaf  cake  a  pan  with  a  top  8  by  4, 
bottom  7^  by  3^4)  and  a  depth  2^  inches,  of  5  cups'  capacity  will  be  needed 
for  y^  of  the  recipe.  For  a  layer  cake  a  pan  7  by  7  and  2^  inches  deep  will 
be  satisfactory.  Bake  at  195°  to  200°C.   (about  385°  to  400°F.). 

3.  Muffin  method.  Put  the  softened  butter,  the  melted  chocolate,  the  sugar, 
flavoring,  and  beaten  egg  in  the  mixing  bowl.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  and  stir 
500  times.  If  the  other  ingredients  are  too  cold  the  melted  chocolate  will  not 
blend  and  may  be  in  flakes  in  the  mixture.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  butter 
and  melted  chocolate  are  very  warm  they  raise  the  temperature  of  the  other 
ingredients,  the  gluten  develops  rapidly  and  the  cake  is  more  rubbery  and 
tough. 

4.  Cake-mixer  method.  Combine  the  butter  softened  sufliciently  to  cream, 
the  sugar,  and  the  beaten  egg.  Mix  thoroughly  until  light  and  spongy.  Add 
the  melted  chocolate;  see  85,2,  for  directions  for  melting  the  chocolate.  Add 
the  flour  and  milk  to  the  batter  according  to  directions  given  under  85,2. 

5.  Use  the  conventional-sponge  method.  See  Experiment  84,  E6. 

B.  Temperature  of  baking. 

Prepare  the  full  recipe,  using  the  method  of  mixing  decided  upon.  Divide 
into  6  cakes  using  235  grams  in  each  cake.  Bake  1  cake  at  165°C.,  1  at  175°C., 
1  at  185°C.,  1  at  195°C.,  1  at  205°C.,  and  1  at  215°C. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  ingredients  upon  the  color  of  the 
cake. 

*  This  recipe  was  developed  by  Betty  Ingersol  Aitken. 


RED  DEVIL'S  FOOD 


537 


1.  Use  different  brands  of  chocolate. 

2.  Use  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  and  reduce  the  baking  powder  to  3  teaspoons. 

3.  Use  thick  sour  milk.  Add  ^  teaspoon  of  soda,  reduce  the  baking  powder 
to  3  teaspoons  and  the  flour  to  286  grams  for  the  full  recipe. 

4.  Use  brown  sugar. 

5.  Mix  enough  of  the  following  for  Yz  the  recipe:  butter,  sugar,  egg,  choco- 
late, flavoring,  and  salt.  After  they  are  thoroughly  mixed,  weigh  and  divide 
into  three  parts.  Use  for  a,  b,  and  c. 

a.  In  part  one  use  a  tartrate  baking  powder.  The  quantity  of  flour,  baking 
powder,  and  milk  will  be  for  1/6  of  the  recipe.  Add  flour  and  milk  by  method 
found  best  under  A. 

b.  In  part  two  use  a  phosphate  baking  powder. 

c.  In  part  three  use  S.-P.  baking  powder. 
D.  Substituting  cocoa  for  chocolate. 

Substitute  63  grams  of  cocoa  for  the  chocolate.  Also  use  larger  and  smaller 
quantities  to  determine  the  optimum  quantity. 

Compare  the  appearance,  shape  of  top,  volume,  and  texture  of  the  cakes 
made  by  the  different  methods.  Is  there  any  difference  in  tenderness?  Is  the 
texture  of  a  rich  chocolate  cake  better,  if  the  butter  and  sugar  are  thoroughly 
creamed?  Which  method  requires  the  shortest  time  for  mixing?  Did  the  in- 
gredients of  your  cake  have  a  high  or  a  low  temperature  while  mixing?  Is  the 
flavor  improved  by  adding  soda?  Do  different  brands  of  chocolate  produce 
the  same  color?  The  same  flavor?  What  is  the  effect  of  different  types  of 
baking  powder  on  the  color  of  the  cake  ? 


Red  Devil's  Food 


Recipe : 


Butter 

}4  cup 

112  grams 

Sugar 

2  cups 

400  grams 

Eggs 

2 

96  grams 

Flour 

2  cups 

200  grams 

Thick  sour  milk 

%cup 

162  grams 

Baking  powder 

ly2  teaspoons 

Vanilla 

1  teaspoon 

Chocolate 

3  squares 

84  grams 

Boiling  water 

^2    cup 

Soda 

1  teaspoon 

Salt 

}i  teaspoon 

Mix  the  first  seven  ingredients  by  the  conventional  method.  Cut  the  choco- 
late into  small  pieces.  Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  chocolate.  Cool  before 
adding  to  the  cake  batter. 

A.  The  proportion  of  soda  to  give  the  best  flavor. 

1.  Prepare  }i  of  the  above  recipe. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  reduce  the  soda  to  ^  teaspoon  for  the  full  recipe. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  increase  the  soda  to  1^4  teaspoons  for  the  full  recipe. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  different  brands  of  chocolate. 

1.  Try  as  many  different  brands  of  chocolate  as  you  can  secure. 

C.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  ingredients  upon  color  of  cake. 


538  BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

1.  Substitute  sweet  milk  for  the  sour.  How  much  soda  should  be  used?  How 
much  baking  powder? 

2.  Use  brown  sugar. 

With  which  proportion  of  soda  is  the  real  chocolate  flavor  retained  best? 
Is  the  color  the  same  with  the  different  proportions  of  soda?  What  must  the 
reaction  be  to  give  a  deep  red  color  to  chocolate  cake?  With  what  reaction 
is  the  best  flavor  obtained? 

White  Cake 
Experiment  86. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  mixing  by  different  methods  on  the  volume,  tex- 
ture, and  tenderness  of  white  cake. 
Recipe: 


Butter 

H  cup 

168  grams 

Flavoring 

1  teaspoon 

Sugar 

2  cups 

400  grams 

Baking  powder 

3  teaspoons 

Cake  flour 

3  cups 

300  grams 

Salt 

^2  teaspoon 

Milk 

1  cup 

244  grams 

Egg  whites 

6 

180  grams 

1.  Conventional  method.  Prepare  1/6  of  the  recipe.  The  amount  of  mixing 
to  give  the  best  texture  varies  with  the  kind  of  flour  used  and  may  need  to 
be  determined.  The  butter  is  creamed,  and  the  sugar  added  gradually  to  it. 
Add  the  salt  and  the  flavoring.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  the  flour  together 
several  times.  Add  approximately  ^  of  the  flour  and  3^  of  the  milk.  Stir 
100  strokes.  Add  a  second  portion  of  flour  and  milk,  stirring  a  total  of  200 
strokes.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  milk,  stirring  a  total  of  350 
strokes.  The  egg  whites  are  beaten  until  they  flow  slowly  when  the  bowl  is 
partially  inverted.  They  are  then  added  to  the  cake  mixture  and  folded  in 
with  50  folds,  using  a  spatula.  Weigh  200  grams  of  batter  into  a  pan  of 
2y2  cups'  capacity.  Bake  at  185°C.  (365°F.). 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  fold  the  egg  whites  100  times. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  stir  instead  of  folding  the  egg  whites  into  the  batter. 

4.  Partially  cream  the  butter.  Then  add  the  sugar  and  unbeaten  egg  white. 
Beat  until  light  and  creamy.  It  is  not  necessary  to  cream  the  butter  by  this 
method,  but  the  creaming  lightens  the  color  of  the  butter  and  thus  a  whiter 
cake  is  obtained.  If  the  butter  is  not  creamed  the  only  difference  is  in  the 
color,  provided  the  sugar,  butter,  and  tgg  white  are  thoroughly  creamed.  Add 
the  salt,  flavoring,  flour,  and  milk  according  to  directions  given  under  86,1, 
mixing  a  total  of  400  strokes. 

5.  Thoroughly  cream  the  butter,  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring.  Sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  together  several  times.  Add  approximately  ^  of  the  flour, 
Yz  of  the  milk,  and  ^  of  the  beaten  egg  white.  Stir  100  strokes.  Add  another 
Yi  of  the  flour,  milk,  and  the  beaten  egg  white.  Stir  a  total  of  200  strokes. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  milk,  and  egg  white.  Stir  a  total  of  400  strokes. 

Compare  the  appearance  of  the  crust,  the  volume,  the  texture,  the  tenderness, 
and  the  flavor  of  the  cakes.  Which  method  gives  the  greatest  volume?  The 
most  tender  cake?  What  is  the  effect  of  folding  the  egg  white  too  long?  Which 
method  is  the  easiest  to  prepare? 


GINGERBREAD 


539 


Appear- 
ance of 
crust 


Shape  of 
top 


Volume 


Texture 


Tender- 
ness 


Yh 


Color 


Results  and  conclusions. 
Suggestions  for  Additional  Experiments  with  White  Cakes 

1.  Vary  the  proportion  of  ingredients,  and  determine  the  amount  of  mixing 
required  to  give  the  best  texture. 

2.  Add  all  the  flour  and  milk  at  one  time,  instead  of  in  several  portions. 

3.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  in  several  portions,  but  alternately. 

4.  Test  the  creaming  ability  of  difEerent  fats,  and  determine  how  much  the 
baking  powder  can  be  reduced,  when  creaming  is  very  thorough. 

5.  Determine  the  optimum  baking  temperature. 

Gingerbread 
Experiment  87. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  using  baking  powder  or  soda  and  sour  milk  for 
leavening  in  gingerbread. 
Recipe : 


Molasses 

1  cup 

328  grams 

Sour  milk 

)4  cup 

122  grams 

Fat 

y^  cup 

50  grams 

Egg 

1 

48  grams 

Flour 

2  cups 

224  grams 

Ginger 

1^  teaspoons 

Salt 

J^  teast 

)oon 

A.  Prepare  }i  of  the  recipe.  Use  100  strokes  for  combining  each  cake  unless 
otherwise  stated.  Weigh  180  grams  of  batter  for  each  cake.  Bake  at  185°C. 
(365°F.). 

1.  Use  2  teaspoons  of  soda. 

2.  Repeat  1,  but  use  200  strokes  in  combining. 

3.  Repeat  1,  but  let  stand  15  to  20  minutes  before  baking. 

4.  Use  j4  teaspoon  of  soda, 

5.  Use  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  plus  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 

6.  Use  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

7.  Use  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  substitute  sweet  milk  for  the  sour 
milk. 


Appearance  of 
crust 


Shape  of 
top 


Color  of 
crumb 


Texti 


ender- 
ness 


Flavor 


540 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


B.  Repeat  A,  substituting  sorghum  for  the  molasses. 

What  is  the  effect  of  soda  upon  the  color  of  gingerbread?  Does  the  baking 
powder  affect  the  color?  What  is  the  effect  of  soda  upon  the  gluten  and  the 
resulting  texture  of  the  gingerbread  in  3  when  the  batter  stands  before  baking? 
Why  does  it  show  more  decidedly  in  the  center  and  not  so  much  at  the  edge 
of  the  cake?  Would  a  less  amount  of  mixing  produce  a  better  gingerbread? 

Conclusions. 


Cookies 
Experiment  88. 

To  determine  the  proportion  of  ingredients  for  drop  and  roll  cookies. 
A.  Drop  cookies. 
Recipe: 


Butter 

}4  cup 

112  grams 

Sugar 

1>^  cups 

300  grams 

Milk 

1  cup 

244  grams 

Eggs 

2 

96  grams 

Flour 

3^  cups 

384  grams 

Baking  powder 

4  teaspoons 

Flavoring 

1  teaspoon 

Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe.  The  size  of  the  drop  cookies  should  be  the  same 
in  all  the  experiments.  As  the  liquid  is  reduced  in  the  following  experiments 
the  flour  must  be  reduced.  Flour  should  be  added  in  each  to  have  the  con- 
sistency of  the  batter  the  same  as  that  in  1.  Keep  a  record  of  the  flour  added 
for  each  experiment.  As  the  flour  is  reduced,  the  amount  of  baking  powder 
should  be  reduced.  Use  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  for  each  cup  of  flour 
and  sift  with  the  flour.  Wrap  a  portion  of  the  cookies  in  wax  paper  and  put 
away  in  a  covered  container  to  determine  the  comparative  keeping  quality  of 
the  different  cookies. 

1.  Prepare  recipe  as  given. 

2.  Reduce  the  milk  in  the  recipe  to  ^  cup. 

3.  Reduce  the  milk  in  the  recipe  to  ^  cup. 

4.  Omit  the  liquid  in  the  recipe. 

5.  Omit  the  liquid  in  the  recipe  and  reduce  the  eggs  to  1. 


Amount  of  flour 

added  for  full 

recipe 


Richi 


Crispness 


Flavor 


Texti 


Keeping 
quality 


COOKIES 


541 


Results. 

B.  Roll  cookies. 

Recipe. 

Butter 

1  cup 

224  grams 

Sugar 

2  cups 

400  grams 

Milk 

1  cup 

244  grams 

Eggs 

2 

96  grams 

Flour 

4  cups 

448  grams 

Baking  powder 
Flavoring 
or  spices 


4  teaspoons 
1  teaspoon 
y2  teaspoon 


Prepare  1/6  of  the  recipe.  The  amount  of  mixing  should  be  the  same  for 
all  the  experiments.  The  dough  rolls  better  if  it  is  chilled  first.  The  cookies 
should  be  the  same  size  and  the  dough  the  same  thickness.  As  the  liquid  is 
reduced  the  amount  of  flour  will  need  to  be  reduced.  Keep  a  record  of  the 
flour  used.  Use  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  for  each  cup  of  flour,  sifting 
it  with  the  flour. 

Wrap  some  of  the  cookies  in  oil  paper  and  store  in  a  covered  container 
to  compare  the  keeping  quality  with  that  of  the  drop  cookies.  Store  2  weeks 
or  longer. 

1.  Prepare  the  recipe  as  given.  Try  150  strokes  for  mixing.  If  more  mixing 
is  necessary  keep  a  record  of  the  amount  used.  If  more  flour  is  needed  keep 
a  record  of  the  amount  added. 

2.  Reduce  the  milk  in  the  recipe  to  3^  cup.  Mix  with  the  same  number  of 
strokes  used  under  Bl. 

3.  Reduce  the  milk  in  the  recipe  to  ^  cup.  Mix  with  the  same  number  of 
strokes  used  under  Bl. 

4.  Omit  the  milk  in  the  recipe.  Mix  with  the  same  number  of  strokes  used 
under  Bl. 

5.  Omit  the  milk.  Reduce  the  eggs  to  1.  Mix  with  the  same  number  of 
strokes  used  under  Bl. 

6.  Omit  the  milk.  Reduce  the  eggs  to  ^  for  the  whole  recipe.  Mix  with 
the  same  number  of  strokes  used  under  Bl. 

7.  Omit  the  milk.  Increase  the  eggs  to  3.  Mix  with  the  same  number  of 
strokes  used  under  Bl. 

How  much  flour  is  added  in  each  instance?  Would  increased  mixing  when 
the  milk  is  reduced  improve  the  texture? 


Flour  added  for 
whole  recipe 


Appear- 
ance 


Texture 


Crispness 


Fh 


Keeping 
quality 


Results. 

C.  The  series  under  B  may  be  repeated  and  less  flour  added  to  make  drop 
cookies  to  compare  with  A. 

Which  proportions  give  a  crisp  cooky?  A  soft  one?  Which  cookies  keep 
better,  the  roll  or  drop  ones?  Could  the  amount  of  mixing  be  increased  and 
improve  the  texture  for  either  series? 


CHAPTER  XIII 
FATS  AND  OILS 

The  principal  uses  of  fats  and  oils  in  cookery  are  as  follows:  ( 1 )  to  give 
richness  and  flavor,  as  the  addition  of  fat  to  vegetables,  and  in  mayon- 
naise and  French  dressings;  (2)  for  sauteing  and  for  cooking  foods  in  deep 
fat;  (3)  for  shortening,  as  in  biscuits,  muffins,  cakes,  and  pastries.  For  the 
first  use,  flavor  is  important  and  may  be  the  deciding  factor,  unless  cost 
needs  to  be  considered.  Examples  of  this  are  butter  or  bacon  fat  for 
vegetables  in  preference  to  lard  or  Crisco,  and  olive  oil  for  salad  dressings 
in  preference  to  other  oils.  This  is  a  matter  of  personal  choice.  For  the 
latter  two  uses,  not  only  the  flavor  but  also  the  chemical  and  physical 
characteristics  may  to  some  extent  be  deciding  factors  as  to  the  preferable 
fat  to  use. 

True  fats  and  oils  are  composed  of  hydrogen,  carbon,  and  oxygen, 
though  certain  fat  derivatives,  the  lipins,  contain  either  nitrogen  or  nitrogen 
and  phosphorus. 

Properties  o£  fats  and  oils.  One  characteristic  of  fats  and  oils  that 
may  be  an  advantage  or  disadvantage  in  food  preparation  is  that  they 
are  excellent  solvents  for  many  aromatic  compounds.  They  are  solvents 
for  odors  of  onions,  fish,  perfumes,  and  many  of  the  aromatic  flavors  used 
for  seasoning  food.  Onions,  celery,  parsley,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  fat, 
and  this  fat  stored  in  the  refrigerator  to  use  in  seasoning  sauces,  meats,  etc. 
This  can  save  many  preparations  of  small  amounts  of  onion  or  other 
vegetables  used  for  seasoning.  Perhaps  the  enhanced  flavor  when  fat  is 
added  to  the  fruit  filling  of  pies  is  partially  due  to  the  fat  retaining  more 
of  the  aromatic  flavor  of  the  fruit  as  well  as  to  the  enriching  of  the  filling. 
Because  the  fat  is  a  good  solvent  for  vanilla  and  other  flavor,  it  is  often 
advised  that  it  be  added  to  the  fat  during  creaming  in  mixing  cake. 

The  fats,  the  fatty  acids,  and  the  soaps  formed  from  the  fatty  acids 
and  alkalies  all  lower  the  surface  tension  of  water. 

Fats  and  oils  are  only  sparingly  soluble  in  alcohol,  but  are  readily  soluble 
in  ether,  chloroform,  carbon  tetrachloride,  etc.  Fats  and  oils  are  insoluble 
in  water.  They  have  a  greasy  feel  and  produce  characteristic  transparent 
spots  on  paper. 

Specific  gravity  of  fats  and  oils.  All  the  naturally  occurring  fats 
and  oils  have  a  specific  gravity  of  less  than  1.0.  The  term  specific  gravity  is 
used  to  denote  the  ratio  between  the  weight  of  a  substance  and  the  weight 
of  an  equal  volume  of  water.  Usually  the  weights  are  compared  at  the 
same  temperature.  Thus  if  the  specific  gravity  of  an  oil  is  given  as  0.919 

542 


GLYCERIDES 


543 


at  25°/25°C.  It  means  that  the  weight  of  the  oil  at  25°  is  compared  with 
the  weight  of  an  equal  volume  of  water  at  25 °C.  Fats  and  oils  are  lighter 
than  water,  and  if  they  are  poured  into  water  they  float  on  its  surface. 
Cream  has  a  higher  fat  content  than  milk  and  is  lighter  than  the  milk. 
The  average  specific  gravity  of  some  edible  fats  and  oils  is  given  below. 

Butter  not  less  than  0.905  at  40740°C. 

Cottonseed  oil  about  0.917-0.918  at  25725°. 

Corn  oil  about  0.919-0.921  at  25725°. 

Lard  about  0.931-0.932  at  15°/15°. 

Olive  oil  about  0.916-0.918. 

Distinction  between  fats  and  oils.  One  distinction  between  fats  and 
oils  is  that  at  ordinary  temperatures,  18°  to  24°C.,  the  fats  are  solid 
and  the  oils  are  liquid.  Chemically  the  fats  contain  higher  percentages 
of  the  saturated  glycerides  than  the  oils,  and  the  oils  contain  more  of 
the  unsaturated  glycerides  than  the  fats. 

Glycerides.  Fats  and  oils  are  esters  of  glycerol  and  fatty  acids,  and  thus 
are  often  spoken  of  as  glycerides.  Glycerol  is  a  trihydric  or  triatomic 
alcohol  and  as  such  combines  with  three  fatty  acids  to  form  a  molecule 
of  fat  or  oil.  Of  the  three  fatty  acids  which  combine  with  glycerol  to 
form  the  molecule  of  fat  or  oil,  all  may  be  the  same  acid.  If,  for  example, 
the  three  are  stearic  acid,  the  name  of  the  glyceride  is  tristearin.  Two  of 
the  acids  may  be  the  same  and  the  third  different.  If  the  molecule  con- 
tains two  stearic  and  one  palmitic  acid,  it  is  known  as  distearo-palmitin. 
Each  of  the  three  may  be  a  different  acid.  This  gives  many  possible  com- 
binations in  fats  and  oils. 

The  approximate  percentage  of  the  unsaturated  glycerides  in  some  of 
the  fats  and  oils  used  in  cooking  is  given  in  Table  59. 

TABLE  59 

The  Approximate   Percentage  of  Unsaturated  Glycerides   Found  in 

Some  Fats  and  Oils 


Kind  of  fat 

Unsaturated 
glycerides 

Investigator 

Percentage 

Coconut  oil 

6  to  8 

Lewkowitsch 

Butter 

40 

Lewkowitsch 

Lard 

60  to  65 

Lewkowitsch 

Chicken  fat^ 

77 

Kerr 

Cottonseed  oil 

75 

Jamieson    and    Baugham 

Peanut  oil 

From  Spanish-type  peanuts 

75 

Jamieson    and     Baugham 

From  Virginia-type  peanuts 

79 

Jamieson    and     Baugham 

Corn  oil 

85 

Jamieson    and     Baugham 

^  Personal  communication  from  R.  H.  Kerr,  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry. 


544  FATS  AND  OILS 

Since  the  above  figures  are  approximate,  it  follows  that  individual  sam- 
ples of  each  oil  or  fat  vary  slightly,  some  having  a  higher  and  some  a  low^er 
percentage  of  unsaturated  glycerides.  Lard  obtained  from  leaf  fat  has  a 
lower  percentage  of  unsaturated  glycerides  than  that  obtained  from  the 
back  fat  of  the  same  animal.  In  addition,  the  composition  of  such  fats  as 
butter,  lard,  tallow,  and  chicken  fat  may  be  influenced  by  the  diet.  Pork 
fed  soybeans  or  peanuts  in  sufficient  quantity  produces  the  so-called  "soft 
pork,"  because  the  body  fat  contains  a  higher  percentage  of  unsaturated 
glycerides,  hence  is  softer  at  room  and  refrigerator  temperatures. 

Melting  point  o£  fats.  Because  of  the  mixture  of  glycerides  the 
melting  points  of  fats  are  not  constant  but  vary.  The  melting  points  of  fats 
are  not  only  affected  by  the  percentage  of  their  component  unsaturated  fatty 
acids  but  also  by  the  length  of  the  saturated  acid  chains.  The  shorter 
saturated  fatty  acids  have  lower  melting  points  than  the  longer  ones,  and,  in 
general,  the  fats  composed  of  glycerides  containing  a  high  percentage  of 
the  higher  or  longer  chained  saturated  fatty  acids  have  the  highest  melting 
points;  those  with  a  high  percentage  of  the  shorter  saturated  fatty  acids 
have  intermediate  melting  points;  and  those  with  a  high  percentage  of 
unsaturated  acids  have  the  lowest  melting  point.  As  the  percentage  of  the 
shorter  fatty  acids  or  the  unsaturated  fatty  acids  is  increased  the  melting 
point  of  the  fat  is  lowered.  Butter  produced  in  summer  has  a  lower  melting 
point  than  butter  produced  in  the  winter  months  because  the  percentage 
of  unsaturated  fatty  acids  is  higher  in  the  summer.  The  oils  have  a  higher 
percentage  of  oleic  acid  and  consequently  have  a  low  melting  point.  Hard 
fats  like  mutton  tallow  contain  high  percentages  of  palmitic  and  stearic 
acids  and  little  oleic  and  have  a  high  melting  point.  Soft  fats  like  lard  con- 
tain more  oleic  acid  than  tallow  but  not  so  much  as  the  oils. 

Congealing  point.  The  solidifying  point  of  a  glyceride  or  a  mixture 
of  glycerides  is  lower  than  the  melting  point,  the  difference  in  the  two 
often  being  great.  For  example,  Bloor  cites  the  melting  point  of  a  sample 
of  tristearin  as  71.5°C.,  whereas  the  solidifying  point  was  52.5°C.  A  sample 
of  butter  melted  at  34.5°  but  congealed  at  22.7°C.  This  wide  spread  in 
melting  and  congealing  points  has  some  advantages  and  some  disadvantages. 
When  melted  fats  are  added  to  a  batter  or  other  product  they  do  not 
solidify  as  rapidly  as  they  would  if  the  melting  and  congealing  points  were 
the  same.  On  the  other  hand,  butter  once  melted  requires  a  lower  tempera- 
ture to  congeal. 

Iodine  number  (or  value).  The  iodine  number  is  defined  as  the 
number  of  grams  of  iodine  absorbed  by  100  grams  of  fat  or  other  substance. 
The  iodine  is  absorbed  by  the  unsaturated  carbons  or  at  the  double  bonds. 
The  class  to  which  an  oil  belongs  is  indicated  by  its  iodine  number.  The 
non-drying  oils,  such  as  peanut  and  coconut,  have  iodine  values  less  than 
100.  Cacao  butter  and  the  fats  such  as  lard,  beef,  and  mutton  tallows,  and 
butter  also,  have  iodine  values  below  100.  The  semi-drying  oils,  which 
include  corn,  cottonseed,  sesame,  wheat,  oat,  rice,  rye,  Brazilnut,  raisin 
seed,   peach,   cherry,   and   apricot   kernels,   and   many   others,    have   iodine 


TEXTURE  AND  CONSISTENCY  OF  FATS  545 

values  between  100  and  130.  Drying  oils,  which  include  linseed  and  soy- 
bean, have  iodine  values  above  130. 

Acid  value.  Acid  value  is  defined  as  the  number  of  milligrams  of 
KOH  required  to  neutralize  the  free  fatty  acids  in  one  gram  of  substance. 
It  is  a  measure  of  the  quantity  of  free  fatty  acids  or  those  not  combined  in 
glycerides  and  is  usually  reported  as  "free  fatty  acids  as  oleic." 

Refractive  index.  The  refractive  index  is  the  degree  of  deflection 
caused  in  a  ray  of  light  in  passing  from  one  transparent  medium  to  an- 
other. For  some  fats  the  iodine  value  may  be  calculated  with  a  fair  degree 
of  accuracy  from  the  refractive  index.  Since  the  determination  can  be  made 
rapidly,  the  refractive  index  is  used  to  determine  the  extent  of  hydrogena- 
tion  during  the  hydrogenation  process. 

Peroxide  value.  The  peroxide  value  is  the  amount  of  peroxide  present 
per  1000  grams  of  fat.  It  is  expressed  as  milli-equivalents  or  as  milli-moles, 
1  milli-mole  equaling  2  milli-equivalents.  The  peroxide  is  determined  in 
accelerated  tests  to  learn  the  relative  induction  periods  or  relative  keeping 
quality  of  fats.  King,  Roschem,  and  Irwin  describe  the  principle  of  this 
test  as  follows :  By  aerating  a  sample  of  fat  in  a  test  tube  held  at  constant 
temperature  in  a  bath,  the  aging  of  the  fat  is  greatly  accelerated.  They 
state  that  the  temperature  at  which  the  fat  is  held,  the  surface  exposed, 
the  amount  of  oxygen  available,  the  amount  of  agitation,  and  the  presence 
or  absence  of  light,  all  have  a  bearing  on  the  peroxide  value.  When  these 
conditions  are  controlled,  an  accelerated  test  may  be  completed  in  a  short 
time.  The  aging  of  the  fat  under  these  conditions  is  as  rapid  in  a  few  hours 
as  in  a  few  weeks  or  months  when  stored  at  lower  temperatures  with 
exclusion  of  light  and  air. 

Hydrogenation.  Hydrogenation  is  the  process  by  which  hydrogen  is 
added  to  the  unsaturated  carbon  bonds  of  oils,  thus  forming  hard  fats. 
By  using  a  metal  catalyst,  such  as  iron,  copper,  nickel,  or  platinum,  at 
an  elevated  temperature  in  the  presence  of  an  atmosphere  of  hydrogen 
the  oils  take  up  hydrogen  at  their  unsaturated  bonds,  becoming  plastic, 
or  hard,  brittle  fats,  depending  upon  the  completeness  of  hydrogenation. 
Crisco  and  Snowdrift,  hydrogenated  fats  in  common  use  in  food  prepara- 
tion, are  not  completely  hydrogenated.  They  contain  about  25  per  cent 
of  the  saturated  fatty  acids.  If  they  were  completely  hydrogenated  the 
product  would  be  too  hard  to  use  in  food  preparation.  In  addition  to  oils  or 
mixtures  of  oils  some  soft  lards  are  also  hydrogenated  for  edible  purposes. 

Texture  and  consistency  o£  fats.  The  texture  or  consistency  of  a 
fat,  and  hence  its  properties  in  baked  products,  is  not  only  influenced  by  its 
component  glycerides,  but  also  by  the  rate  of  cooling  and  mechanical  agita- 
tion. For  example,  if  a  sample  of  lard  is  divided  into  two  parts,  and  one 
portion  is  cooled  slowly,  i.e.,  kept  in  a  warm  room  or  an  incubator  just 
below  the  congealing  point  of  the  fat,  the  glycerides  with  high  melting 
points  tend  to  crystallize  and  separate  from  those  with  low  melting  points. 
As  a  result  the  crystallized  glycerides  form  granular  spots  surrounded  by 
oil.  If  the  second  portion  of  lard  is  chilled  rapidly,  there  are  fewer  granules 


546 


FATS  AND  OILS 


and  the  fat  is  not  so  grainy.  If  in  addition  to  rapid  chilling,  the  fat  is  also 
stirred  while  it  is  being  cooled  it  becomes  very  smooth.  If  the  temperature 
to  which  it  is  cooled  is  several  degrees  below  its  melting  point  the  fat  may 
become  waxy  and  so  firm  that  it  is  rather  difficult  to  cream  at  ordinary 
temperatures.  The  oil  does  not  separate  from  the  smooth  fat  as  the  fat 
becomes  soft.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  only  smooth  lard  or  fat  is  sold  in 
paper  cartons.  Grainy  lard  may  be  purchased  but  comes  in  metal  contain- 
ers. The  commercial  smooth  lards  are  not  cooled  sufficiently  to  become 
waxy. 

Fatty  acids  commonly  found  in  foods.  The  fatty  acids  commonly 
found  combined  with  the  glycerol  in  food  and  cooking  fats  are  palmitic, 
stearic,  and  oleic.  Chemically  the  fatty  acids  of  the  acetic  acid  series  have 
the  general  formula  C/zH2«02.  The  most  important  of  this  series  in  foods 
are  the  palmitic  and  stearic,  though  butyric  and  caproic,  with  small  amounts 
of  caprylic  and  capric,  form  about  7  per  cent  of  the  glycerides  of  butter. 

H    H    H 


Butyric  acid 


aproic 


acid 


Caprylic  acid 


Capric  acid 


Palmitic  acid 


Stearic  acid 


H- 


H- 


H- 


H 


H- 


C— C— C— C  =  O 


H 
H 

-i 
I 

H 
H 

I 
H 

H 

i 

I 

H 

H 

I 
-C- 


c  =  o 

I 

OH 


■Hn 

I 
■HJ4 

nH- 

I 

C 

■H-Je  OH 
■H-| 

C  — C  =  0 

I         I 
i-H-Jg   OH 


O 


H 
H 

I 
H 


-H- 

I 
C 

I 

■H- 
•H- 

i 
I 

l-H- 


— C  = 

I 
14  OH 


O 


— C  =  0 

6h 


HEAT  DECOMPOSITION  547 

Of  the  fatty  acid  series  with  the  general  formula  CnrL^?i-JD^  oleic  acid 
is  the  most  important  in  food  fats.  The  acids  of  this  series  contain  one 
double  bond  in  the  chain  and  are  unsaturated. 

H     rH- 


Oleic  acid 


„4. 


i 


■H- 


— C=  C— 


■H-n 

I 

c 

■H- 


— C  =  O 

I 
7  OH 


Linolic  acid  belongs  to  the  fatty  acid  series  with  the  general  formula 
CnH2n-402.  Linolic  and  linolenic  acids  are  very  important  because  they 
are  necessary  for  proper  functioning  of  the  body,  and  the  animal  body 
does  not  have  the  ability  to  synthesize  the  unsaturated  fatty  acids.  Linolic 
acid  contains  two  double  bonds. 

Linolenic  acid  belongs  to  the  series  CnH2n-602  and  contains  three  double 
bonds. 

When  oils  or  fats  are  hydrogenated,  it  is  generally  agreed  that  the  more 
highly  unsaturated  acids  are  the  first  to  become  saturated. 

Though  present  in  only  small  amounts  both  linolic  and  linolenic  acids 
may  influence  the  properties  of  foods.  Their  effect,  or  the  effect  of  their 
oxidation  products,  on  gluten  quality  has  been  considered.  The  glycerides 
with  more  than  one  double  bond  also  oxidize  readily.  The  shortening  power 
of  a  fat  or  oil  because  of  the  number  of  double  bonds  it  contains  is  still 
to  be  discussed. 

Glycerol.  Glycerol  or  glycerin  and  fatty  acids  are  formed  by  hydrolysis 
of  the  fats  by  enzymes  during  digestion  or  by  saponification,  i.e.,  hydrolysis 
by  alkalies.  Glycerine  has  the  ability  to  retain  moisture  to  a  high  degree, 
being  more  hygroscopic  than  the  levulose  compounds.  It  has  long  been 
used  by  many  European  bakers  to  retain  the  moisture  in  cakes,  cookies,  etc. 

H 

I 
H— C— OH  H— C— H 


„-i- 


-OH  y  C— H    +     2  H2O 

H— C— OH  H— C  =  O 

I 
H 

glycerol  acrolein  water 

Heat  decomposition  products  o£  glycerol.  Some  free  and  uncom- 
bined  fatty  acids  and  glycerol  are  usually  found  with  the  fats.  When  heated 
to  a  high  enough  temperature  the  glycerol  decomposes,  losing  two  mole- 
cules of  water  and  forming  acrolein.  Acrolein  is  an  aldehyde  that  has  a 
sharp  odor  and  is  irritating  to  mucous  membranes  of  the  nose  and  throat 
and  to  the  eyes.  The  odor  and  irritation  are  familiar  to  all  who  have 
had  experience  with  "burning  fats." 


548 


FATS  AND  OILS 


Free  fatty  acids.  The  amount  of  free  fatty  acids  found  in  some  fats 
and  oils  is  greater  than  in  others.  As  previously  stated,  upon  hydrolysis, 
which  may  be  brought  about  by  enzymes,  the  lipases,  or  by  boiling  with 
alkali,  fats  and  oils  split  into  glycerol  and  fatty  acids.  In  cooking  materials 
in  fat,  particularly  foods  with  considerable  water  content,  the  percentage 
of  free  fatty  acids  is  increased.  During  heating  in  the  presence  of  moisture 
some  hydrolysis  occurs,  yielding  glycerol  and  free  fatty  acids. 


The  Smoking  Temperatures  of  Fats 

When  fats  or  oils  are  heated  to  a  high  temperature  decomposition  occurs 
and  finally  a  point  is  reached  at  which  visible  fumes  are  given  off.  This 
point  is  called  the  smoking  temperature.  Some  fats  decompose  at  lower 
temperatures  than  others;  those  that  smoke  at  low  temperatures  are  not 
pleasant  to  use  because  of  the  odor  and  irritating  effect  of  the  fumes.  The 
decomposition  also  gives  an  unpleasant  and  disagreeable  flavor  to  the  food. 
Therefore,  it  is  preferable  to  use  fats  with  high  smoking  temperatures 
for  sauteing  and  deep  fat  frying. 

Blunt  and  Feeney  investigated  the  smoking  temperatures  of  edible  fats. 
They  found  the  smoking  temperatures  of  various  fats  when  tested  in  a 
small  evaporating  dish  having  a  diameter  of  about  3^  inches  to  be  as 
follows : 

TABLE  60 
The  Smoking  Temperatures  of  Some  Edible  Fats  {Blunt  and  Feeney) 


Kind  of  fat 

Smoking 

temperature, 

°C. 

Free  acid 
as  oleic, 
per  cent 

Cottonseed  oil  (Wesson) 

Snowdrift 

Crisco 

233 
232 
231 
221 
208 
207 
194 
190 
175 
162 
149 
138 

0.07 
0.06 
0.13 

Leaf  lard 

0.15 

Butter  fat                              

0.28 

Leaf  lard  heated  5  hours 

Bulk  lard 

A  much-used  lard 

0.34 
0.51 
0.61 

Olive  oil      

0.92 

Peanut  oil,  I      

1.10 

Peanut  oil,  II                                  

1.64 

Coconut  oil                                         

1.90 

The  following  factors  cause  variations  in  the  smoking  temperatures  of 
fats  and  oils:  (1)  the  amount  of  free  fatty  acids  present,  (2)  the  surface 
exposed,  and  (3)  the  presence  of  foreign  particles. 


TYPES  OF  FAT  SPOILAGE  549 

Free  fatty  acids  and  smoking  temperature.  Blunt  and  Feeney  have 
determined  the  amount  of  free  fatty  acids  in  the  fats  they  used  and  report 
as  shown  in  Table  60  that  the  fats  with  the  highest  percentage  of  free 
fatty  acids  have  the  lowest  smoking  points,  from  which  they  decide  that 
the  smoking  temperature  of  the  fat  is  closely  dependent  upon  its  acidity. 
To  confirm  this  they  removed  the  free  fatty  acid  from  some  of  the  olive 
oil  and  found  its  smoking  point  to  be  234°C.  and  its  free  acid,  as  oleic, 
0.03  per  cent.  To  some  of  the  cottonseed  oil,  oleic  acid  in  different  pro- 
portions was  added,  its  smoking  temperature  being  lowered  with  the  in- 
creased oleic  acid  content. 

Surface  exposed.  They  report  that  the  smoking  temperature  for  a 
particular  fat  is  lowered  when  the  surface  exposed  is  increased.  Thus  the 
wider  the  diameter  of  the  cooking  utensil  used,  the  more  the  smoking 
temperature  is  lowered.  They  advise  using  a  vessel  with  as  small  a  diameter 
as  is  convenient  for  deep  fat  frying. 

Foreign  particles.  They  have  found  that  another  factor  that  lowers 
the  smoking  temperature  is  the  presence  of  finely  divided  foreign  particles 
in  the  fat.  Flour  and  small  particles  of  other  materials  accumulate  in  a 
fat  used  for  cooking  purposes.  Hence,  a  much-used  fat  has  a  lower  smoking 
temperature  than  the  original  fat. 

Smoking  temperature  and  fat  absorption.  The  cooperators  in  fat 
investigations  at  Iowa  State  College  found  that  absorption  of  fat  by  dough- 
nuts is  influenced  to  a  greater  degree  by  the  smoking  point  of  the  fat  than 
by  any  other  chemical  or  physical  factors  investigated.  Fat  absorption  was 
greater  the  lower  the  smoking  point  of  the  fat  or  oil. 

Rancidity 

Fats  are  added  directly  to  many  products  such  as  crackers,  cookies,  and 
cake  because  of  their  shortening  power;  they  are  added  to  other  products 
in  the  form  of  such  ingredients  as  nut  meats,  coconut,  fatty  seeds,  milk, 
and  cheese.  Prevention  of  rancidity  may  become  a  problem  in  such  baked 
goods  as  crackers,  cookies,  and  fruit  cake  which  may  be  stored  for  longer 
or  shorter  periods;  in  the  cereal  industry;  in  the  confectionery  industry; 
in  dairy  products;  in  the  fat  and  oil  industry;  in  salad  dressings;  and  in 
storage  of  meats,  particularly  cured  meats  such  as  bacon  and  ham,  and  in 
stored  frozen  fresh  meats.  Meat,  the  fat  of  which  contains  more  unsaturated 
glycerides,  is  subject  to  the  development  of  rancidity  more  rapidly  than  fat 
containing  greater  percentages  of  saturated  glycerides.  Thus  frozen  poultry 
and  pork  present  more  problems  when  stored  for  long  periods  than  beef 
and  mutton. 

Types  of  fat  spoilage.  The  chemical  change  that  needs  to  occur  in  a 
fat  before  taint  is  detectable  organoleptically  is  very  small.  Davies  states 
that  butyric  and  capric  acids  are  detectable  by  smell  and  taste  in  concentra- 
tions of  less  than  80  parts  per  million  parts  of  fat.  Changes  in  fats  can  be 


550  FATS  AND  OILS 

detected  by  smell  and  taste  before  they  can  be  detected  by  chemical  tests. 
An  isolated  fat  possessing  excellent  keeping  qualities  may  show  deteriora- 
tion rapidly  after  it  is  combined  with  other  ingredients,  and  vice  versa  ; 
but,  in  general,  the  fresher  the  fat  and  the  better  its  keeping  quality,  the 
better  the  keeping  quality  of  the  product  with  which  it  is  combined. 

Different  types  of  spoilage  may  occur  in  fats.  Davies  says  "mustiness" 
is  due  to  microorganic  breakdown  of  higher  fatty  acids  and  is  accelerated 
by  moisture.  Mustiness  is  common  in  cereal  products,  particularly  maize. 
Davies  states  it  is  accompanied  by  an  increase  in  acidity  of  water  extracts, 
matting  of  the  product  because  of  mold  growth,  and  local  spontaneous 
heating.  It  is  prevented  by  keeping  the  humidity  sufficiently  low. 

"Fishiness,"  according  to  Davies,  is  due  to  the  production  of  trimethyl- 
amine  in  the  presence  of  catalysts  from  lecithin,  before  the  auto-oxidation 
of  the  fat  proper.  Fishiness  occurs  most  commonly  in  butter.  The  presence 
or  absence  of  other  products  can  alter  the  fishy  odor. 

The  term  rancidity  is  used  by  the  homemaker  to  designate  the  develop- 
ment of  any  disagreeable  odor  and  flavor  in  fats  and  oils.  But  in  the  fat  and 
oil  industry  the  term  is  often  restricted  to  the  oxidative  changes  in  fats  and 
oils.  Different  investigators  classify  the  disagreeable  odors  and  flavors  ac- 
cording to  their  production  in  different  ways.  Davies  gives  three  types  of 
rancidity  as  follows:  (1)  acid,  (2)  oxidative,  and  (3)  ketonic.  Triebold's 
classification  is  (1)  hydrolytic,   (2)  oxidative,  and   (3)  ketonic. 

Hydrolytic  rancidity.  Hydrolytic  or  the  acid  rancidity  of  Davies  is 
brought  about  by  the  action  of  lipase  enzymes  which  by  hydrolysis  split 
the  fat  into  glycerol  and  fatty  acids.  Davies  adds  that  free  fatty  acids  may 
also  be  liberated  by  a  relatively  high  hydrogen-ion  concentration  in  contact 
with  the  fat.  Lipases  are  associated  with  fats  in  their  natural  state,  i.e., 
nuts,  seeds,  milk,  and  fat  of  meat.  Since  lipase  enzymes  are  destroyed  by 
heat,  this  type  of  rancidity  is  encountered  in  products  which  are  not  heated 
to  a  high  enough  temperature  to  destroy  the  enzyme.  The  flavors  developed 
by  lipase  action  depend  upon  the  composition  of  the  fat.  Thus  flavors  caused 
by  butyric  acid  will  be  found  only  in  products  containing  butter  fat.  Davies 
states  that  lipase  activity  in  itself  is  of  no  great  economic  importance,  except 
in  the  fats  rich  in  the  lower  fatty  acids,  but  secondary  reactions  associated 
with  oleic  acid  introduce  another  aspect.  The  free  fatty  acids  act  as  catalysts 
for  oxidative  changes.  Greenbank  says  that  lard  with  a  low  free  fatty  acid 
content  keeps  well,  even  when  stored  for  long  periods,  and  butter  from 
sweet  cream  does  not  become  rancid  as  rapidly  as  butter  from  sour  cream. 
The  better-keeping  quality  of  the  sweet-cream  butter  is  attributed  to  its 
lower  free  fatty  acid  content. 

Chemical  and  physical  changes  in  fats  with  development  o£ 
oxidative  rancidity.  Among  the  changes  which  occur  when  a  fat  or  oil 
becomes  rancid  are  the  following:  the  iodine  value  decreases,  whereas  the 
specific  gravity,  acid  value,  and  peroxide  value  increase.  Coe  states  that 
numerous  investigations  have  shown  that  when  an  oil  or  fat  is  protected 


OXIDATIVE  RANCIDITY  551 

« 

from  light  by  means  of  a  green  wrapper  or  container  it  may  have  a  peroxide 
value  equal  to  or  even  greater  than  an  unprotected  fat  that  has  become 
rancid  and  still  be  organoleptically  free  from  rancidity.  From  this  Coe 
concludes  that  the  reaction  that  gives  rise  to  the  rancid  taste  and  odor  has 
no  connection  vrith  formation  of  peroxides. 

Oxidative  rancidity.  Oxidative  rancidity  occurs  through  the  taking 
up  of  oxygen  at  the  double  bonds  of  the  unsaturated  glycerides.  Many 
oxidative  decomposition  products  may  be  formed,  though  Kerr  states  the 
exact  nature  of  these  changes  is  not  always  clear.  These  products  include 
aldehydes,  ketones,  fatty  acids  of  lower  molecular  weight,  hydroxy  acids, 
oxy  acids,  and  gases.  Andrews  has  reported  that  among  the  gaseous  decom- 
position products  of  rancid  fats  are  carbon  dioxide,  carbon  monoxide,  hy- 
drogen, nitrogen,  oxygen,  and  other  gases.  Triebold  gives  a  good  summary 
of  the  products  formed  in  development  of  rancidity. 

Induction  period.  There  is  a  period  before  the  uptake  of  oxygen  by  a  fat 
becomes  appreciable  which  is  known  as  the  induction  period.  During  this 
period  the  fat  is  still  fresh  and  "sweet."  The  induction  period  varies  for 
different  fats  and  oils  and  for  different  samples  of  the  same  fat  or  oil.  But 
oxidation  products  act  as  catalysts  so  that  oxygen  uptake  receives  increased 
momentum  as  these  products  are  formed.  Reports  in  the  literature  indicate 
that  the  first  compounds  formed  in  oxidation  of  unsaturated  fatty  acids  are 
not  oxides  or  peroxides.  These  compounds  have  never  been  isolated  and 
have  been  given  the  name  "moloxides."  Exclusion  of  air  or  oxygen  from 
a  fat  may  retard  but  not  inhibit  its  oxidation.  It  has  been  suggested  that 
the  source  of  this  oxygen  is  oxygen  in  loose  combination  with  the  fat.  It  is 
sometimes  suggested  that  loosely  bound  oxygen  is  the  source  of  oxygen 
for  the  moloxides. 

Prooxidants  and  antioxidants.  A  prooxidant  accelerates  but  an  antioxi- 
dant retards  oxidation  of  a  fat.  Because  of  the  economical  importance  of 
prevention  of  rancidity  many  investigations  have  been  conducted  to  find 
physiologically  harmless  antioxidants.  The  literature  on  rancidity  is  volumi- 
nous and  many  contradictions  occur,  particularly  in  regard  to  the  activity 
of  different  substances  as  accelerators  or  retarders  of  oxidation.  The  con- 
tradictions can  be  attributed  to  the  lack  of  suitable  tests  for  minute  quanti- 
ties of  some  substances,  the  different  conditions  under  which  the  tests  are 
made,  and  the  differences  in  degree  of  purity  or  refinement  of  the  fats  and 
oils.  Fats  and  oils  always  contain  at  least  traces  of  different  substances  in 
varying  proportions,  some  of  which  can  act  as  prooxidants  and  others  as 
antioxidants.  Patents  have  been  granted  for  the  use  of  many  substances 
as  antioxidants. 

Metals.  Traces  of  certain  metals  (King,  Roschem,  and  Irwin)  may  act 
as  catalysts,  copper  in  particular  being  an  active  prooxidant.  Tin  had  the 
least  effect  of  any  metals  used  in  the  experiments,  although  the  authors 
state  the  results  were  not  conclusive  in  that  tests  were  not  made  under  many 


552  FATS  AND  OILS 

conditions.  The  effect  of  metals  is  important,  for  in  the  manufacture,  re- 
fining, and  storage  of  fats  they  come  in  contact  with  metals. 

Lecithin.  Lecithin,  found  in  egg  yolk,  soybeans,  and  other  substances 
added  to  baked  products,  has  been  reported  to  be  a  powerful  antioxidant 
and  inactive.  Olcott  and  Mattill  say  that  commercial  "lecithin,"  which  is 
not  a  pure  lecithin,  has  antioxidant  action  on  refined  cottonseed  oil,  little 
effect  on  lard,  and  none  at  all  on  lard-cod  liver  oil  mixtures.  They 
attribute  the  antioxidant  properties  to  the  cephalin  found  in  the  commercial 
lecithin.  It  is  well  known  that  egg  yolk  has  antioxidant  properties  in 
cookies,  cakes,  and  similar  products  in  which  both  egg  yolk  and  fat  are 
used. 

Cereals.  Soybean  flour  (Musher)  is  said  to  be  strongly  antioxidant.  Oat, 
corn,  barley,  or  other  cereal  may  be  employed  but  oat  flour  is  preferable 
because  of  its  bland  flavor.  Wheat  flour  is  a  weak  retarder  of  oxidation 
and  oat  flour  is  not  as  strong  an  antioxidant  as  soybean  flour. 

Effect  of  inert  gases  and  humidity.  Triebold  and  Bailey  found  that 
crackers  as  well  as  fats  stored  in  an  atmosphere  of  COo  were  as  rancid  as 
control  samples  stored  in  air.  Other  investigators  have  also  reported  the 
ineffectiveness  of  COo  in  retarding  the  development  of  rancidity.  However, 
storage  in  an  atmosphere  of  nitrogen  or  hydrogen  retards  the  development 
of  rancidity. 

Triebold  and  Bailey  also  found  that  zero-per  cent  relative  humidity 
favors,  but  some  humidity  retards,  oxidative  rancidity.  However,  humidity 
as  high  as  50  to  75  per  cent  produces  mustiness.  The  5-  to  6-per  cent 
moisture  content  of  crackers  aids  in  keeping  the  crackers  fresh.  They  also 
found  that  in  general  the  keeping  quality  of  crackers  was  related  to  the 
length  of  the  induction  period  of  the  shortenings  used  in  them,  but  several 
outstanding  exceptions  to  this  relationship  were  noted,  so  that  the  keeping 
quality  was  more  closely  related  to  the  induction  period  of  the  crackers 
themselves. 

Antioxidants  for  fats  in  contact  with  water.  Lea  was  interested  in  find- 
ing antioxidants  for  bacon  fat.  He  investigated  the  effect  of  different  sub- 
stances on  fat  in  contact  with  a  brine  pickle.  His  results  follow.  Oxidation 
of  lard  in  a  glass  vessel  in  contact  with  water  is  much  more  rapid  at  an 
alkaline  than  at  an  acid  />H.  It  is  suggested  that  this  is  due  to  dissolution 
of  copper  from  the  glass.  At  a  /»H  below  5,  nitrate  is  a  powerful  accelerator. 
Copper  and  iron  in  aqueous  solution  accelerate  the  oxidation  of  lard,  copper 
being  approximately  20  times  as  active  as  iron.  Copper  was  active  in  as 
low  concentrations  as  0.01  p. p.m.  Aliphatic  polyhydroxy-compounds  such 
as  glycerol  and  the  sugars  are  weak  antioxidants.  Aliphatic  hydroxy-acids, 
e.g.,  lactic  and  glycoUic,  the  ethanolamines  and  maleic  acid  are  moderate, 
and  polybasic  hydroxy-acids,  e.g.,  tartaric  and  citric,  are  powerful  anti- 
oxidants. Aliphatic  amino-acids,  e.g.,  glycine,  aspartic  and  glutamic  acids, 
and  asparagine  are  all  powerful  antioxidants.  Protein  has  considerable 
antioxidant  activity  and  may  be  partly  responsible  for  the  stabilization  of 


EFFECT  OF  LIGHT,  HEAT,  AND  AIR  553 

crude  natural  oils  and  fats.  The  prooxidant  effect  of  copper  at  low  con- 
centrations (up  to  approximately  1  p.p.m.)  is  completely  inhibited  by 
protein  and  other  antioxidants.  At  higher  concentrations  of  the  metal,  even 
4  per  cent  of  protein  fails  to  prevent  a  powerful  acceleration  of  oxidation. 
Orthophosphoric  acid  is  a  fairly  good,  and  pyrophosphoric  a  very  good, 
antioxidant.  Phosphorous  acid  is  also  effective.  These  water-soluble  anti- 
oxidants still  retard  oxidation  when  the  water  content  is  as  low  as  0.25  per 
cent.  They  are  active  at  />H  7,  certainly  in  more  acid  and  probably  in 
more  alkaline  solutions. 

Volatilization  of  rancid  products.  Roschem  and  Newton  found  that 
samples  of  rancid  lard  blown  with  steam  at  100°C.  were  odorless,  bland- 
tasting,  and  entirely  palatable,  i.e.,  the  products  causing  the  rancid  flavor 
and  odor  were  volatile.  Furthermore  these  volatile  substances  had  no 
accelerating  effect  in  oxidation  of  lard.  This  was  interpreted  to  mean  that 
the  accelerating  effect  is  due  to  a  substance  or  substances  of  heavy  molecular 
weight  not  volatile,  with  steam  distillation  at  200°C.  and  3  to  5  mm. 
mercury  pressure. 

Protective  action  of  green  light.  Coe  and  Le  Clerc  compared  the 
inhibiting  effect  of  excluding  all  light,  using  only  green  light  of  490  to 
580  m/x  wave  length  or  4900  to  5800  Angstrom  units,  with  the  effect  of 
several  antioxidants,  including  maleic  acid  and  pyrogallol,  upon  oxidation 
of  fats.  They  report  that  oils  or  fats  stored  at  low  temperatures  and  with 
all  light  excluded  remained  fresh  longer  than  if  treated  with  antioxidant 
or  packaged  in  green  wrappers  and  exposed  to  light  at  room  temperature. 
Packaging  in  green  glass  or  opaque  wrappers  was  more  effective  in  keeping 
fat  fresh  than  the  addition  of  the  antioxidants.  Green  glass  or  opaque 
wrappers  which  exclude  all  light  except  the  aforementioned  wave  lengths 
are  suitable  for  packaging  nuts,  potato  chips,  or  food  products  for  display 
purposes. 

Ketonic  rancidity.  Davies  states  this  type  of  fat  spoilage  is  caused 
by  molds  which  attack  the  short-chained  saturated  fatty  acids,  the  decom- 
position products  producing  disagreeable  flavors.  Since  butter  and  coconut 
oil  are  the  principal  fats  which  contain  short-chained  acids  in  the  glycerides, 
most  ketonic  rancidity  is  confined  to  these  fats. 

Effect  of  light,  heat,  and  air.  It  has  been  known  for  years  that 
exposure  of  fats  to  light,  heat,  and  air  is  deleterious  to  keeping  the  fat  fresh. 
Greenbank  investigated  the  relative  effect  of  each  of  these  factors.  He 
concludes  that  in  the  presence  of  air,  light  is  the  most  powerful  accelerator, 
and  moisture  and  heat  follow  \n  the  order  given.  "This  conclusion  holds 
only  for  lower  temperatures."  A  vacuum  may  retard  oxidation  but  not 
prevent  it. 

Triebold  and  Bailey  found  that  all  hydrogenated  shortening  samples 
stored  in  unopened  containers  showed  induction  periods  of  approximately 
the  same  length.  Samples  from  containers  once  opened  and  then  restored 


554  FATS  AND  OILS 

had  shorter  induction  periods.  A  lard  sample  stored  in  the  laboratory  for 
a  year  with  air  excluded  appeared  in  as  good  condition  at  the  end  as  at  the 
start  of  the  experiment.  They  emphasize  the  practical  importance  of  pre- 
venting undue  exposure  of  shortenings  to  air  and  decreasing  the  surface 
area  of  the  fat  exposed  to  air. 

Home  storage  of  fats  and  oils.  All  the  work  on  development  of 
rancidity  in  fats  and  oils  indicates  that  the  fat  should  be  stored  so  that 
light  is  excluded,  at  a  low  temperature,  and  with  as  little  exposure  to  air 
as  possible.  For  farm  storage  of  lard,  when  5,  10,  or  more  gallons  are 
stored  in  one  container,  the  light  should  be  excluded  and  Triebold  and 
Bailey's  results  suggest  a  tall  narrow  container,  rather  than  a  wide  flat 
one,  for  the  former  exposes  a  smaller  surface  of  the  fat  to  the  air.  When 
lard  is  removed  from  these  containers  it  is  preferable  to  remove  a  level 
layer  rather  than  to  dig  out  the  center  portion. 

Changes  in  Fats  during  Cooking  Processes 

Masters  and  Smith  have  investigated  the  character  of  the  changes  in  fat 
during  cooking.  They  state  that  the  changes  occurring  in  the  fat  in  cooked 
pastry  are  slight,  unless  the  pastry  is  very  thin  or  over-cooked. 

Woodruff  and  Blunt  have  reported  the  changes  in  fats  absorbed  by 
potato  chips  and  a  dough  mixture.  They  state  that  the  iodine  number  is 
lowered,  and  the  percentage  of  free  fatty  acids  increased.  These  changes 
are  not  great,  but  the  fat  absorbed  by  the  food  undergoes  greater  changes 
than  the  fat  in  which  the  food  is  cooked.  Long  cooking  or  use  of  the  fat 
increases  the  amount  of  decomposition  of  the  fat.  The  higher  the  tempera- 
ture to  which  the  fat  is  heated,  the  greater  the  decomposition  products 
formed.  Thus  during  cooking  the  fat  should  not  be  heated  higher  than  the 
temperature  needed  for  cooking  the  food. 

Morgan  and  Cozens  found  that  fats  used  for  frying  a  standard  dough 
showed  consistent  decreases  in  iodine  number,  lowering  of  the  melting 
point  and  increases  in  acidity  and  refractive  index.  They  state  that  in 
general  the  increase  in  acidity  is  greater  in  those  fats  showing  the  larger 
amounts  of  absorption. 

King  et  al.  used  9  fats,  including  3  kettle-rendered  lards  from  animals 
fed  on  rations  consisting  largely  of  (1)  peanut,  (2)  corn,  and  (3)  brewer's 
rice,  a  standard  prime  steam  lard,  a  hydrogenated  lard,  a  hydrogenated 
cottonseed  oil,  and  three  highly  refined  oils  from  corn,  cottonseed,  and 
peanuts,  respectively,  for  studying  frying  of  potato  chips.  The  fat  absorbed 
by  the  chips  was  about  the  same  for  all  the  fats  used.  Chemical  tests 
showed  deterioration  of  all  fats.  After  10  fryings  the  fitness  of  the  fats, 
particularly  the  lards  on  account  of  their  high  peroxide  value,  for  further 
use  was  questionable.  They  found  no  relation  between  chemical  changes 
and  the  flavor  of  the  chips.  The  percentage  of  free  fatty  acids  in  the  fat 


COMPOSITION  AND  NATURE  OF  FOOD  555 

extracted  from  the  chips  was  greater  than  in  the  frying  fat.  Based  largely 
upon  desirability  of  flavor  the  palatability  tests  indicated  oils  were  preferable 
to  lards  for  frying  potato  chips,  those  fried  in  peanut  oil  ranking  highest 
with  cottonseed  oil  second.  Of  the  lards,  the  hydrogenated  and  that  from 
animals  whose  rations  consisted  largely  of  peanuts  were  considered  best. 
Potato  chips  fried  in  oils  and  in  most  cases  those  stored  in  the  refrigerator 
kept  fresh  longest. 

The  Amount  of  Fat  Absorbed  by  Fried  Foods 

The  chief  factors  governing  the  amount  of  fat  which  will  be  absorbed  by 
a  food  during  frying  are  (1)  the  time  of  cooking,  (2)  the  temperature  of 
the  cooking  fat,  (3)  the  total  surface  area  of  the  food,  and  (4)  the  com- 
position and  nature  of  the  food. 

Time  of  cooking.  In  general,  it  can  be  stated  that  the  longer  the  food 
is  cooked  the  greater  the  fat  absorption.  There  will  be  some  exceptions 
to  this.  For  instance,  with  some  foods  cooked  at  high  temperatures,  coagu- 
lated material  or  a  hardened  crust  may  prevent  greater  fat  absorption 
with  longer  cooking.  Other  foods  which  contain  a  high  percentage  of  fat 
like  breaded  pork  chops  may  lose  fat  during  cooking.  This  is  also  true  of 
fried  chicken,  if  the  chicken  has  a  high  fat  content. 

Temperature  of  cooking  fat.  Usually  there  is  less  fat  absorption  at 
higher  cooking  temperatures.  This  is  probably  due  to  the  quick  formation 
of  a  crust  or  coagulated  material  at  the  high  temperature.  However,  slight 
differences  in  cooking  temperature,  30°  to  40°C.,  cause  little  variation  in 
fat  absorption.  Ordinarily  food  is  cooked  at  moderate  temperatures  to 
thoroughly  cook  the  food  without  excessive  browning. 

Surface  area.  The  larger  the  surface  for  a  given  weight  of  material 
the  greater  the  area  over  which  fat  may  be  absorbed.  Cracks  caused  by 
handling  or  expansion  in  cooking,  rolling  thin  rather  than  thick,  roughened 
surfaces,  due  to  little  mixing  or  other  causes,  stretching  and  pulling  the 
material  out  of  shape  in  handling,  all  increase  the  surface  area  and  thus 
tend  to  increase  the  fat  absorption. 

The  composition  and  nature  of  the  food.  Some  foods  by  their  nature 
tend  to  absorb  more  or  less  fat  than  others.  For  example,  fried  eggs  may 
absorb  less  fat  than  some  foods.  This  is  due  to  the  smooth  surface  and  to 
the  coagulation  of  the  egg  proteins,  which  tends  to  prevent  fat  absorption. 
Large  amounts  of  flour  on  the  surface  of  chops  may  tend  to  increase  the 
fat  absorption,  owing  to  the  absorption  of  fat  by  the  flour.  Variations  in 
composition  of  the  food  and  variations  in  the  proportion  of  ingredients 
used  in  foods  cause  wide  variations  in  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed.  A  food 
like  doughnuts,  containing  sugar,  fat,  liquid,  eggs,  flour,  and  baking  powder, 
may  show  wide  variations  in  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed,  even  when  the 
length  of  time  of  cooking  and  the  amount  of  surface  area  are   kept  as 


556  FATS  AND  OILS 

standardized  as  possible.  Variations  in  the  extent  of  mixing  foods  like 
doughnuts  produce  variations  in  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  during  cooking 
because  the  characteristics  of  the  dough  are  altered  by  mechanical  treat- 
ment. 

The  Amount  o£  Fat  Absorbed  by  Doughnuts  Reported  by 
Different  Investigators 

Fat  absorption  in  doughnuts  by  McKee.  McKee  has  determined 
the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  in  frying  doughnuts.  The  doughnuts  were  made 
under  standard  conditions  and  fried  for  5  minutes  at  200°C.  The  standard 
recipe  averaged  34.7  per  cent  fat  absorbed.  When  the  fat  was  doubled 
and  quadrupled  in  the  doughnut  recipe  the  fat  absorption  was  increased 
to  43.4  and  47.8  per  cent,  respectively;  sugar  doubled  caused  an  increase  to 
44.3  per  cent.  But  when  the  sugar  was  quadrupled  the  doughnut  dis- 
integrated during  cooking,  absorbing  large  quantities  of  fat. 

Fat  absorption  in  doughnuts.  From  various  sources.  Morgan 
and  Cozens  have  determined  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  in  frying  dough- 
nuts. Their  dough  contained  less  egg  and  more  flour  than  the  dough  used  by 
McKee.  Their  doughnuts  were  larger  than  McKee's,  which  gave  a  rela- 
tively larger  surface  for  a  given  weight  of  dough  for  the  McKee  doughnut. 
They  cooked  their  doughnuts  for  3  minutes  at  205°  to  210°C.,  which 
resulted  in  an  average  fat  absorption  of  17.4  per  cent.  The  time  of  cooking, 
the  temperature  of  the  cooking  fat,  and  the  proportion  of  ingredients  in 
the  recipes  used  by  McKee  and  Morgan-Cozens  were  not  the  same ;  hence 
the  fat  absorption  differed. 

The  cooperators  in  lard  investigations  at  Iowa  State  College  Experi- 
ment Station  determined  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  by  doughnuts  and 
the  changes  in  the  fats  caused  by  cooking  doughnuts  in  each  fat,  the  period 
of  heating  each  fat  being  kept  constant  at  10j4  hours.  These  studies  were 
continued  over  a  period  of  3  years,  the  same  operator,  Jensen,  making  and 
frying  all  the  doughnuts,  so  that  a  highly  specialized  technic  was  developed. 
Standardized  conditions  of  mixing,  which  included  incubation  of  all  mate- 
rials at  a  definite  temperature  before  mixing  and  mixing  with  a  Kitchen- 
Aid,  were  maintained.  Six  mixes  or  batches  of  dough  were  required  for 
the  doughnuts  fried  in  each  fat.  The  term  ''firsts"  was  applied  to  dough- 
nuts cut  after  the  first  rolling  of  the  dough.  The  scraps  were  then  collected 
and  rerolled.  The  doughnuts  from  this  lot  were  designated  as  ''rerolls." 
Again  the  scraps  were  collected  and  rerolled,  the  doughnuts  from  this  lot 
designated  as  ''re-rerolls."  The  following  results  are  from  tests  during  the 
third  year  only. 

A  total  of  12  fats  were  used,  of  which  2  were  open-kettle  rendered 
lards,  5  were  prime-steam  rendered  lards,  1  hydrogenated  lard,  1  hydro- 
genated  cottonseed  oil,  and  1  corn  oil. 


TEMPERATURE  OF  INGREDIENTS  WHEN  MIXED     557 

Number  of  "firsts"         cooked  in  each  fat  12      dozen 

Number  of  "rerolls"       cooked  in  each  fat    6      dozen 

Number  of  "re-rerolls"  cooked  in  each  fat    2>^  dozen 

Average  fat  absorption  from  all  fats  for  "firsts"         28.6  per  cent 

Average  fat  absorption  from  all  fats  for  "rerolls"       22.3  per  cent 

Average  fat  absorption  from  all  fats  for  "re-reroUs"  18.5  per  cent 

The  analysis  of  variance  indicated  exceedingly  high  uniformity  among 
rollings,  i.e.,  "firsts"  always  absorbed  the  most  fat,  etc.,  but  great  variation 
among  different  mixes  or  batches  so  that  the  variation  from  mix  to  mix 
was  used  as  the  experimental  error.  The  variation  of  amount  of  fat  absorbed 
by  the  different  fats  was  also  highly  significant.  Further  analysis  of  the 
data  showed  a  significant  negative  correlation  between  the  smoking  point  of 
the  fat  and  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  by  the  doughnuts,  which  indicated 
that  the  lower  the  smoking  point  the  greater  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed 
by  the  doughnuts.  The  iodine  value,  the  percentage  of  free  fatty  acids, 
and  the  refractive  index  had  no  effect  on  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed. 
However,  a  highly  significant  negative  correlation  was  found  between  the 
free  fatty  acids  content  and  the  smoking  point  of  the  fat  which  agrees  with 
former  findings  of  Blunt  and  Feeney  and  Morgan  and  Cozens. 

Denton  and  co-workers  have  also  published  results  for  fat  absorption  in 
doughnuts  and  other  foods.  Their  conclusions  are  similar  to  those  of  the 
investigators  mentioned  above  and  to  the  following  class  results,  so  will 
not  be  given  in  detail. 

Factors  Affecting  the  Amount  of  Fat  Absorbed  During  Cooking 
and  the  Texture  of  the  Doughnuts 

The  factors  that  affect  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  by  doughnuts  may 
be  outlined  as  follows.  Other  factors  than  those  listed  may  also  affect  the 
amount  of  fat  absorbed:  (1)  surface  area,  (2)  the  temperature  of  the 
ingredients  when  mixed,  (3)  the  extent  of  mixing,  (4)  the  kind  and  brand 
of  flour  used,  (5)  the  amount  of  flour,  (6)  the  cooking  temperature  and 
the  length  of  time  of  cooking,  (7)  letting  the  dough  stand  before  frying, 
and  (8)  variation  in  the  proportion  of  ingredients  used  in  the  recipe.  All 
the  above  factors  either  directly  or  indirectly  affect  the  texture  and  also  the 
tenderness  of  the  doughnuts. 

Surface  area.  Other  things  being  equal,  the  greater  the  surface  area 
the  greater  the  fat  absorption.  The  total  surface  area  of  doughnuts  may  be 
increased  by  stretching  the  dough  in  handling  and  by  cracks  on  the  surface 
of  the  dough.  The  thicker  the  doughnut  is  rolled,  the  smaller  the  total 
surface  area  in  proportion  to  the  weight  of  the  doughnut.  The  thickness 
of  the  dough  in  all  the  following  experiments  is  ^  inch.  This  is  controlled 
by  rolling  the  dough  between  cleats  tacked  to  a  bread  board. 

Temperature  of  ingredients  when  mixed.  The  results  in  Table  61 
show  that  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed  has  a  decided 


558 


FATS  AND  OILS 


effect  upon  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  during  cooking.  The  tenderness  of 
the  doughnuts  was  as  marked  as  the  fat  absorption,  for  all  the  doughnuts 
of  series  II  were  tougher  than  those  of  series  I.  The  dough  made  from  the 
materials  that  had  been  incubated  at  40°C.  developed  very  rapidly,  be- 
coming quite  elastic  and  rubbery  in  a  short  time.  The  dough  stretched 
yet  was  so  tenacious  that  it  was  difficult  to  divide  it.  It  had  a  tendency  to 
draw  up  and  shrink  after  rolling.  With  this  temperature  even  60  strokes 
was  too  long  to  mix  the  dough  to  secure  tender  doughnuts.  The  best 
temperature  of  the  ingredients  to  secure  doughnuts  of  desirable  texture  and 
tenderness  is  about  22°  to  27°C.  (72°  to  80°F.). 

TABLE  61 

Variation  in  Fat  Absorption  Due  to  Difference  in  Temperature  of 

THE  Ingredients  of  the  Dough  When  Mixed,  Six  Doughnuts  in  Each 

Lot.  Cooked  3  Minutes  at  175°  to  180°C. 


Number 
strokes 

for 
mixing 

Tempera- 
ture of  in- 
gredients 
when  first 
mixed 

Weight  of 
uncooked 
dough- 
nuts, 
grams 

Weight  of 
cooked 
dough- 
nuts, 
grams 

Fat  ab 

sorbed 

Experi- 
ment 94 

Grams 

Per  cent 

1,1 

60 

22°C. 

140.6 

181.1 

60.5 

33.4 

2 

80 

143.5 

179.5 

55.5 

30.9 

3 

100 

144.0 

175.0 

47.0 

26.8 

4 

120 

141.0 

169.9 

47.0 

27.8 

11,1 

60 

40°C. 

146.6 

158.6 

28.0 

17.6 

2 

80 

145.8 

154.8 

26.0 

16.7 

3 

100 

153.7 

161.7 

24.5 

15.1 

4 

120 

150.4 

159.4 

24.5 

15.3 

A  word  of  explanation  is  necessary  regarding  the  percentage  of  fat 
absorbed.  As  given  in  the  tables  it  is  only  approximate.  Doughnuts  both 
lose  and  gain  weight  during  cooking.  Moisture  is  lost  and  fat  is  absorbed. 
The  only  accurate  way  to  obtain  the  percentage  of  fat  absorbed  in  dough- 
nuts is  to  run  an  analysis  on  the  ingredients  used,  i.e.,  to  determine  the 
amount  of  fat  in  the  dough  and  in  the  cooked  doughnuts.  This  requires 
too  long  for  regular  class  work.  Denton  has  suggested  that  the  percentage 
of  fat  be  calculated  on  the  weight  of  the  cooked  doughnuts,  and  this  has 
been  followed  in  determining  the  percentage  of  fat  given  in  the  tables.  The 
uncooked  weight  of  the  doughnuts  is  also  given. 

Extent  of  mixing.  Both  the  manner  of  mixing  the  ingredients  and 
the  length  of  time  of  mixing  the  dough  influence  the  texture  obtained  in 
doughnuts.  Doughnuts,  like  cakes,  seem  to  have  a  finer,  more  even  texture 


TEMPERATURE  AND  LENGTH  OF  TIME 


559 


if  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  creamed  with  the  fat  and  sugar.  Adding  the 
flour  and  milk  in  different  portions  may  also  affect  the  texture.  Too  little 
mixing  after  the  flour  and  liquid  are  added  gives  a  coarse,  harder,  rather 
crystalline  texture,  for  the  ingredients  are  not  thoroughly  blended.  With 
over-mixing  the  doughnuts  are  tougher  and  more  compact.  The  tempera- 
ture of  the  ingredients  affects  the  amount  of  mixing  required  to  obtain 
a  tender  doughnut.  As  the  temperature  increases  less  mixing  is  required; 
at  too  low  a  temperature,  the  fat  does  not  blend  with  the  other  ingredients. 
The  length  of  time  of  mixing  the  dough  also  affects  the  amount  of  fat 
absorbed  by  doughnuts.  In  general,  the  longer  the  dough  is  mixed  the  more 
the  gluten  is  developed  unless  mixing  is  extremely  long.  The  development 
of  the  gluten  by  mixing  forms  thin  filaments  of  gluten  throughout  the  dough 
that  probably  tend  to  prevent  fat  absorption.  The  longer  mixing  produces 
a  more  uniformly  mixed  dough,  which  has  a  smoother  crust.  The  smoother 
crust  has  less  surface  for  fat  absorption  than  a  dough  with  a  rougher 
surface. 

Kind  and  brand  o£  flour  used.  The  amount  of  fat  absorbed  by  dough- 
nuts varies  with  the  kind  or  brand  of  flour  used,  if  other  conditions  are 
standardized.  In  general,  the  strong  flours  show  greater  decrease  in  fat 
absorption  with  longer  mixing.  The  soft-wheat  flours  tend  to  increase  the 
fat  absorption.  The  amount  of  flour,  that  is  of  bread  or  soft-wheat  flour, 
to  give  a  soft  tender  doughnut  also  varies.  This  is  apart  from  varying  the 
proportion  of  flour. 

The  amount  of  flour.  As  the  amount  of  flour  in  the  recipe  is  increased 
the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  by  the  doughnuts  is  decreased.  This  is  shown 
in  Table  62. 

TABLE  62 

Effect  of  Amount  of  Flour  in  the   Recipe  upon  Fat  Absorption  in 
Doughnuts  {Average  13  tests) 


Experi- 
ment 94A 

Number  of 
strokes 
used  for 
mixing 

Weight  of 
uncooked 

dough- 
nuts, 

grams 

Weight  of 
cooked 
dough- 
nuts, 
grams 

Fat  absorption 

Amount 
flour, 
cups 

Grams 

Per  cent 

4^ 

5 

5>< 

sy2 

80 
80 
80 
80 

142.6 
140.6 
143.2 
149.0 

192.3 
182.4 
182.5 
182.8 

72.5 
60.9 
59.0 
51.3 

37.4 
33.6 
32.5 
28.2 

The  cooking  temperature  and  the  length  of  time  of  cooking.  In 
general,  the  longer  the  time  of  cooking  the  greater  the  fat  absorption. 
Table  63  shows  rather  typical  results. 


560 


FATS  AND  OILS 


TABLE  63 

Effect  of  the  Cooking  Temperature  and  the  Length  of  Time  of  Cooking 

Upon  Fat  Absorption  in  Doughnuts.     Dough  Mixed  80  Strokes  with 

Wooden  Spoon.   Six  Doughnuts  in  Each  Lot 


Weight  of 

Weight  of 

Fat  absorbed 

Experi- 
ment 

Time  of 

Temp,  of 
cooking 

uncooked 

cooked 

cooking. 

dough- 

dough- 

94C 

minutes 

fat,  °C. 

nuts, 
grams 

nuts, 
grams 

Grams 

Per  cent 

1 

2 

155-160 

184.0 

219.0 

44 

20.1 

2 

3 

155-160 

168.0 

194.0 

49 

25.2 

3 

4 

155-160 

170.0 

201.0 

53 

26.4 

4 

2 

175-180 

168.0 

190.0 

44 

23.2 

5 

3 

175-180 

168.5 

193.5 

47 

24.3 

6 

4 

175-180 

169.0 

196.0 

51 

26.0 

7 

2 

195-200 

176.5 

195.5 

38 

19.4 

8 

3 

195-200 

179.5 

197.5 

39 

19.7 

9 

4 

195-200 

165.5 

181.5 

42 

23.1 

The  results  in  Table  63  show  less  fat  absorption  at  the  higher  tempera- 
tures. Sometimes  the  differences  are  not  so  great.  Extreme  temperatures 
were  used  in  these  doughnut  experiments.  In  ordinary  cooking  as  low 
a  temperature  as  155°C.  would  not  be  used,  for  the  doughnuts  would 
require  too  long  a  time  to  brown.  Nor  would  the  high  temperature  be 
used,  for  the  doughnuts  become  too  brown  in  a  very  short  time.  The 
doughnuts  cooked  for  2  minutes  are  not  so  brown  as  those  cooked  4 
minutes.  Those  cooked  at  155°  to  160°  are  very  pale  in  color;  those  at 
195°  to  200°,  except  the  ones  cooked  2  minutes,  are  too  dark  in  color. 
Usually  the  preferable  color  is  obtained  by  cooking  at  175°  to  180°  for 
3  or  4  minutes.  The  doughnuts  cooked  at  the  highest  temperature  usually 
have  a  smaller  volume  than  those  cooked  at  175°  to  180°,  probably  because 
the  crust  hardens  quickly  at  the  higher  temperature  and  thus  prevents 
expansion.  This  would  be  one  factor  that  causes  decreased  fat  absorption 
at  195°  to  200°,  as  the  doughnuts  would  have  less  surface  area. 

Letting  the  dough  stand  before  frying.  If  the  dough  is  allowed 
to  stand  a  short  time  before  frying  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  while 
cooking  is  usually  lessened,  but  sometimes  just  the  opposite  happens,  and 
a  larger  quantity  of  fat  is  absorbed.  The  volume  of  the  cooked  doughnuts 
is  usually  greater  after  the  dough  is  allowed  to  stand  a  short  time.  This 
would  tend  to  cause  greater  fat  absorption  on  account  of  greater  surface 
area. 


VARIATION  OF  PROPORTION 


561 


Effect  of  variation  of  proportion  of  ingredients  in  the  recipe. 

If  different  doughnut  recipes  are  compared,  the  proportion  of  ingredients 

TABLE  64 

Effect  upon  Fat  Absorption  of  Increasing  the  Sugar  in  the  Recipe 
FROM  1  TO  \}4  Cups.   Cooked  3  Minutes  at  175°  to  180°C. 


Number 

of  strokes 

used  for 

mixing 

Weight  of 
uncooked 

dough- 
nuts, 

grams 

Weight  of 
cooked 
dough- 
nuts, 
grams 

Fat  absorption 

Grams 

Per  cent 

1 

140 
160 
180 
200 

146.6 
146.1 
148.7 
154.0 

185.3 
186.7 
178.9 
175.6 

68 
65 
52 
42 

36.7 
34.8 
29.1 
23.9 

will  be  found  to  vary  somewhat.  One  recipe  may  contain  a  larger  propor- 
tion of  sugar,  another  of  fat.  This  variation  of  proportion  of  ingredients 
will  influence  the  percentage  of  fat  absorbed. 

Sugar.  When  the  sugar  in  the  regular  recipe  is  increased  from  1  to  1^ 
cups  the  dough  is  quite  sticky  and  difficult  to  handle.  The  dough  appears 
as  if  it  contained  a  thick  sirup.  The  fat  absorbed  during  cooking  is  de- 
cidedly increased.  If  the  dough  is  mixed  longer  it  becomes  less  sticky  and 
the  gluten  better  developed,  and  fat  absorption  is  decreased.  The  result 
upon  the  texture  is  similar  to  that  obtained  when  sugar  is  increased  in 
cake.  The  dough  requires  more  mixing  than  the  regular  recipe  to  obtain 
good  doughnuts.  The  best  texture  is  usually  obtained  with  180  to  200 
strokes. 

Fat.  When  the  fat  in  the  recipe  is  increased  the  fat  absorbed  during 
cooking  is  increased.  When  the  fat  in  the  recipe  is  increased,  the  extent  of 
mixing  does  not  affect  the  fat  absorption  so  much,  i.e.,  fat  absorption  does 
not  decrease  so  rapidly  with  longer  mixing  as  in  the  regular  recipe.  There 
is  also  the  possibility  of  variation  of  amount  of  fat  absorbed,  when  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  fats,  such  as  butter,  Crisco,  or  lard,  are  used  in  the  dough. 
When  flour  is  increased,  which  the  homemaker  tends  to  do  because  in- 
creased fat  gives  a  softer  dough,  the  fat  absorption  is  not  always  increased 
by  doubling  the  fat  in  the  recipe. 

Egffs.  When  the  number  of  eggs  in  the  recipe  given  in  the  outline  is 
increased  from  2  to  3,  with  no  other  change,  the  dough  is  softer  and  more 
sticky,  because  of  the  moisture  content  of  the  egg.  This  tends  to  cause 
increased  fat  absorption.  The  coagulation  of  the  increased  egg  in  the 
crust  tends  to  decrease  the   fat  absorption.   The  final   result   is  the   sum 


562  FATS  AND  OILS 

of  these  antagonistic  effects.  Sometimes  one  factor  and  sometimes  the  other 
predominates.  In  making  doughnuts  the  tendency  would  be  to  add  more 
flour  to  roll  the  dough  more  readily,  and  this  would  decrease  the  fat 
absorption.  Other  factors  in  addition  to  the  two  mentioned  above  will 
also  affect  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed.  These  include  surface  area  and  the 
extent  of  mixing.  The  volume  of  the  doughnuts  w^ith  increased  egg  may 
be  larger  than  the  volume  of  those  in  the  regular  recipe,  giving  a  greater 
surface  area  for  absorption  of  fat.  Doughnuts  made  with  increased  egg 
may  contain  tunnels,  and  there  is  a  tendency  for  them  to  be  tough. 

The  Shortening  Power  of  Fats  and  Oils 

Shortening  power  has  been  defined  and  tested  in  various  ways.  The 
ordinary  household  way  is  to  test  the  product  by  feel  either  by  breaking  or 
by  crushing.  Davis  has  defined  shortening  as  follows:  "That  material  has 
the  greatest  shortening  power,  which  when  baked  in  a  dough  under  stand- 
ard conditions  gives  to  the  product  a  minimum  crushing  or  a  minimum 
breaking  strength."  Shortening  power  or  the  ability  of  fats  and  oils  to  make 
a  product  more  tender  so  that  it  breaks  or  crushes  more  readily  is  due  to 
several  factors.  These  factors  for  discussion  may  be  classified  as  follows: 
(1)  differences  in  structure  of  the  dough,  (2)  differences  in  adsorption 
of  different  fats  and  oils  at  interfaces  and  orientation,  and  (3)  the  surface 
area  covered  by  the  fat  or  oil.  The  author  is  aware  that  this  classification 
is  somewhat  superficial,  for  plasticity,  the  melting  point  of  the  fats  used, 
and  other  factors  might  be  listed.  But  differences  in  plasticity  of  the  fats 
used  will  influence  the  structure  of  the  dough  and  thus  may  be  considered 
under  the  classification  given. 

Differences  in  structure  of  the  dough.  In  the  chapter  on  batters 
and  doughs  it  was  found  that  differences  in  structure  of  batters  and  doughs 
were  due  to  several  causes,  i.e.,  the  method  of  mixing  or  combining  of 
ingredients,  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed,  the  extent 
of  mixing,  the  plasticity  of  the  fat  used,  the  ingredients  used,  and  the 
proportions  of  these  ingredients.  It  is  rather  diflficult  to  exactly  duplicate 
the  structure  of  a  dough,  but  it  is  particularly  difficult  when  the  material 
is  thin  like  pastry.  The  fat  or  oil  is  seldom  distributed  evenly  throughout 
the  dough.  This  gives  structural  weakness  in  certain  areas.  For  this  reason 
breaking  tests  of  individual  pastries  may  vary  considerably. 

Theory  concerning  differences  of  shortening  power  of  dif- 
ferent fats  and  oils.  The  theory  for  differences  in  shortening  power 
of  different  fats  and  oils  is  based  upon  the  concepts  of  differences  in 
cohesion,  adhesion,  adsorption  at  interfaces,  and  orientation  of  molecules. 
These  are  in  turn  based  on  the  concept  of  polarity.  Polar  groups  or  polar 
molecules,  owing  to  an  electric  charge,  are  very  reactive  and  strongly 
attracted  to  each  other.  Some  substances  like  fatty  acids  have  polar  groups, 
while  a  portion  of  the  molecule  is  non-polar.  This  theory  for  the  shorten- 


UNSATURATED  FATTY  ACIDS  563 

ing  power  of  fats  and  oils  has  been  developed  from  the  work  of  Lang- 
muir,  Harkins,  and  their  co-workers,  upon  cohesion,  adhesion,  interfacial 
tension,  and  molecular  attraction,  between  water  and  organic  liquids. 

Langmuir  has  reported :  ''When  a  small  quantity  of  an  oil,  such  as 
olive  oil,  is  placed  upon  a  large  clean  surface  of  water,  the  oil  spreads 
rapidly  upon  the  water  surface  until  a  definite  area  has  been  covered,  and 
then  the  oil  shows  little  or  no  tendency  to  spread  further."  The  following 
is  a  brief  summary  of  his  article.  Some  portions  of  the  molecule  have  greater 
affinity  for  water  than  other  parts.  In  determining  the  cause  of  this  spread- 
ing of  the  oil  upon  the  water  he  found  that  the  film  was  one  molecule 
thick.  If  the  cause  of  spreading  is  an  attraction  between  the  oil  and  water 
this  attraction  may  be  the  molecule  as  a  whole  or  certain  portions  of  the 
molecule  may  have  greater  attraction  than  other  parts  for  the  water.  If 
the  whole  molecule  is  attracted  there  would  be  solubility  of  oil  in  water. 
If  a  portion  of  the  oil  molecule  is  attracted  by  the  water  while  another 
portion  is  more  attracted  by  the  oil  molecules  we  have  a  ready  explana- 
tion of  the  spreading  of  the  oil  on  the  water. 

If  oleic  acid  is  considered,  as  an  example,  the  carboxyl  group  has  a 
strong  affinity  for  water,  and  when  placed  on  water  this  group  is  probably 
absorbed  in  it.  The  hydrocarbon  chain  of  oleic  acid  has  no  attraction  for 
water  but  it  is  attracted  by  other  hydrocarbon  chains.  From  this,  one  can 
picture  the  hydrocarbon  chains  as  standing  in  the  air  side  by  side  and  the 
carboxyl  group  dissolved  in  the  water.  Since  the  hydrocarbon  chains  have 
an  attraction  for  each  other  when  the  amount  of  oleic  acid  upon  the 
surface  of  the  water  is  small,  there  is  a  tendency  for  it  to  remain  in  a 
globule.  This  attraction  of  parts  of  the  molecule  for  each  other  is  in  the 
nature  of  a  chemical  force.  With  very  small  amounts  of  oleic  acid  the 
hydrocarbon  chain  may  lie  along  the  surface  of  the  water.  With  enough 
for  a  layer  the  chains  may  stand  upright. 

The  hydrocarbon  chain  of  oleic  acid  is  not  a  saturated  one.  It  contains 
a  double  bond.  With  a  limited  amount  of  oil  on  the  surface  of  the  water 
the  double  bond  as  well  as  the  carboxyl  group  may  be  drawn  down  onto 
the  surface  of  the  water.  In  this  way  it  covers  a  larger  surface  area  of 
the  water. 

Unsaturated  fatty  acids  cover  a  larger  surface  area  than  satu- 
rated ones.  Langmuir  has  measured  the  length  of  the  molecules  and  the 
area  of  the  water  covered  by  them.  He  reports  that  the  area  covered  by  the 
three  saturated  acids,  palmitic,  stearic,  and  creotic,  is  practically  the  same, 
yet  the  number  of  carbons  in  palmitic  is  16  and  in  creotic  26,  the  latter 
having  the  longer  molecule.  The  glyceride  tristearin  covers  an  area  three 
times  that  of  one  molecule  of  stearic  acid.  From  this  it  is  seen  that  the  area, 
covered  is  the  same  whether  as  an  acid  or  as  an  ester  of  a  glyceride.  In 
measuring  the  height  above  the  surface  of  the  water  he  found  it  to  be 
the  same  as  the  length  of  the  hydrocarbon  chains,  showing  that  they  are 
packed  vertically  side  by  side.  The  results  are  probably  best  told   in  his 


564  FATS  AND  OILS 

words.  "The  unsaturated  fatty  acids  all  cover  much  greater  areas  per 
molecule  than  the  saturated.  The  double  bond  in  oleic  acid  is  thus  appar- 
ently drawn  down  onto  the  water  surface.  It  is  interesting  to  note,  however, 
that  linoleic  acid  with  its  two  double  bonds,  does  not  cover  any  greater 
area  per  molecule  than  oleic  acid.  It  may  be  that  the  double  bonds  attract 
one  another  to  some  extent  in  place  of  the  water.  Linolenic  acid,  however, 
with  three  double  bonds,  covers  a  considerably  greater  area  than  oleic  or 
linoleic.  As  the  number  of  double  bonds  increases,  the  energy  consumed 
in  compressing  the  film  decreases,  probably  because  the  carboxyl  groups 
tend  to  be  attracted  by  the  double  bonds  in  adjacent  molecules  and  are 
thus  more  easily  separated  from  the  water  surface." 

Polar  groups  of  molecules  and  water  are  attracted  to  each  other.  Harkins 
and  co-workers  have  reported  that,  if  an  organic  liquid  contains  polar 
groups  in  its  molecules,  these  groups  turn  towards  the  water,  and  the 
amount  of  work  required  to  separate  it  from  the  surface  of  the  water  is 
greater  than  when  the  polar  groups  are  absent.  These  polar  groups  are 
substances  containing  oxygen,  nitrogen,  sulfur,  iodine,  bromine,  chlorine, 
or  double  or  triple  bonds. 

In  a  later  paper  Harkins  and  Cheng  have  reported  that  a  paraffin  with 
a  triple  bond  increases  the  adhesional  work  very  decidedly;  they  state: 
''This  and  other  studies  in  this  paper  should  prove  of  value  in  study  of 
lubrication  and  other  adhesional  phenomena." 

Wilson  and  Barnard  have  reported  that  a  good  lubricant  is  one  that 
has  the  property  of  "oiliness."  They  define  oiliness  as  "The  property  by 
virtue  of  which  one  fluid  gives  lower  coefficients  of  friction  (generally  at 
slow  speeds  or  high  loads)  than  another  fluid  of  the  same  viscosity." 

Orientation  in  lubricants.  Wilson  and  Barnard,  with  other  investi- 
gators, find  the  "animal  and  vegetable  oils  to  be  superior  in  oiliness  to 
straight  mineral  oils."  They  conclude  that  the  property  of  oiliness  is  due 
to  selective  adsorption  of  parts  of  the  oil  by  the  metal  surface  so  that  they 
adhere  closely  and  are  not  squeezed  out  from  between  the  metals,  or  in 
other  words  the  polar  groups  of  the  animal  and  vegetable  oils  are  attracted 
by  the  polar  metal,  and  the  fat  or  oil  is  less  readily  squeezed  out  from 
between  the  metal  surfaces  than  oils  or  fats  containing  no  polar  groups. 
Thus  they  make  better  lubricants. 

Theory  o£  shortening  power  applied  to  cookery.  If  the  results 
of  Langmuir  and  Harkins  can  be  applied  to  lubricants  they  should  be 
equally  applicable  to  the  use  of  fats  and  oils  in  cookery.  The  glycerol  part 
of  the  fat  is  attracted  by  water.  If  it  adheres  closely  to  the  water,  one 
can  conceive  that  the  water  might  cement  the  flour  particles  less  firmly 
together.  Fats  and  oils  with  double  bonds  in  their  fatty  acid  chains,  or 
those  containing  unsaturated  glycerides,  can  be  spread  over  a  greater  sur- 
face area  than  the  saturated  fats  and  would  thus  adhere  to  a  larger  water 
surface,  or  compete  with  the  gluten  for  the  water.  Also,  since  the  double 
bond  of  the  fat  adheres  closely  to  the  metal  surface,  it  may  be  that  it  will 


SURFACE  AREA  COVERED  565 

adhere  to  the  amino  groups  of  the  flour  proteins,  as  well  as  to  the  water. 
This  would  make  it  more  difficult  to  squeeze  out  from  between  the  flour 
particles.  Fats  and  oils  containing  unsaturated  glycerides  would  have  more 
shortening  power  because  they  cover  a  greater  surface  area  per  molecule 
and  because  they  adhere  more  firmly  to  the  water  surface.  If  this  is  true, 
the  fats  and  oils  having  the  highest  percentage  of  unsaturated  acids  and 
covering  the  greatest  surface  area  should  give  the  tenderest  baked  products. 
However,  the  area  covered  by  a  given  amount  of  fat  or  oil  in  a  dough  or 
batter  may  vary.  A  sphere  gives  the  least  surface  area  for  a  definite  weight 
or  volume  of  a  substance.  If  the  oil  or  fat  is  emulsified  and  distributed  in 
the  batter  in  small  spheres  the  total  area  covered  may  be  less  than  if  the 
same  weight  were  distributed  in  very  thin  films  or  sheets.  Even  in  oil-in- 
water  emulsions  the  surface  area  covered  for  a  definite  weight  of  oil  will 
vary  with  the  degree  of  dispersion  of  the  oil,  for  the  greater  the  dispersion 
the  greater  the  surface  area  covered. 

The  surface  area  covered  determines  the  shortening  power  of 
a  fat  or  oil  in  baked  products.  The  degree  of  shortening  produced 
by  a  fat  or  oil  in  a  given  product  depends  primarily  upon  the  surface  area 
of  the  flour  particles  covered  by  the  fat  or  oil.  To  a  lesser  degree  shorten- 
ing power  may  also  depend  upon  the  extent  of  separation  of  the  egg  and 
milk  proteins  and  the  sugar  from  the  flour  particles  by  the  fat.  The  fats 
and  oils  are  insoluble  in  the  other  ingredients  of  baked  products.  Thus  they 
may  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  mechanically  separate  the  ingredients  of 
the  batter  but  they  never  entirely  lose  their  identity  or  change  their  char- 
acteristics. If  flour  and  water  are  mixed  together  and  baked,  the  resulting 
product  is  very  hard,  firm,  and  tough.  When  the  water  is  added  to  the 
flour  the  protein  particles  become  hydrated  and  form  a  continuous  phase, 
somewhat  similar  to  a  gel,  throughout  the  mass.  When  coagulated  by  heat 
they  form  a  cement-like  structure  throughout  the  dough.  If  fat  or  oil  is 
mixed  with  the  flour  particles,  and  water  is  then  added,  the  fat  coats  a 
portion  of  the  flour  particles  and  forms  layers,  sheets,  or  films  between 
them,  giving  the  baked  product  tenderness.  The  factors  that  afifect  the  area 
of  the  flour  covered  are  (1)  manipulation,  (2)  temperature,  (3)  the 
ingredients  used  and  their  concentration,  (4)  the  consistency  of  the  fat  or 
oil  when  added  and  its  degree  of  unsaturation,  and  (5)  the  concentration 
of  the  fat. 

Manipulation.  The  manipulative  factors  include  creaming,  the  thorough- 
ness with  which  the  fat  is  mixed  with  the  flour,  and  the  manner  of  rolling, 
kneading,  etc.  In  products  containing  sugar,  if  the  fat  and  sugar  are  creamed 
so  that  air  is  incorporated,  the  product  may  be  shorter  or  more  tender. 
This  will  depend  somewhat  on  the  proportion  of  fat  and  sugar,  and  whether 
the  maximum  amount  of  air  is  incorporated.  With  certain  proportions  of 
fat  to  sugar  more  air  can  be  incorporated.  The  increased  shortness  of  the 
product  may  be  attributed  to  the  increased  porosity.  But  creamed  fat  is 
also  more  plastic  and  thus  more  easily  blended  with  flour.  In  addition  the 


566  FATS  AND  OILS 

sugar  crystals  absorb  fat  which  may  aid  in  distributing  fat  in  a  batter  but 
will  probably  reduce  the  area  of  the  flour  covered  by  the  fat  and  thus  tend 
to  reduce  the  shortening  power  of  the  fat.  This  may  at  least  partially 
explain  why  wafers,  made  by  adding  sugar  to  a  standard  pastry  dough, 
are  shorter  with  creamed  fats,  and  least  short  with  oils,  the  order  of 
shortening  power  being  nearly  reversed  from  the  order  in  pastry. 

In  pastry  the  fat  is  mixed  with  the  flour  before  the  water  is  added. 
If  this  mixing  is  extensive  so  that  the  flour  particles  are  well  coated  with 
the  fat  or  oil,  the  product  is  shorter  than  when  made  from  the  same  fat 
only  slightly  mixed  with  the  flour.  In  the  last  instance  the  distribution  of 
the  fat  increases  and  in  the  first  decreases  the  heterogeneity  of  the  final 
product.  An  oil  or  melted  fat  coats  the  flour  particles  more  thoroughly 
with  short  mixing  than  a  plastic  fat.  Noble  et  al.  found  flour  added  to  the 
board  when  the  dough  was  rolled  lessened  the  shortening  value  of  a  modified 
shortbread. 

Temperature.  Temperature  affects  the  plasticity  of  a  fat  and  the  mobility 
of  a  melted  fat  or  of  an  oil.  At  lower  temperatures  the  plasticity  of  fats 
such  as  butter  is  not  great.  They  spread  less  readily  and  the  area  of  flour 
and  other  particles  covered  is  less  with  the  same  extent  of  mixing  than  at 
higher  temperatures.  But  at  higher  temperatures  the  surface  area  covered 
by  a  melted  fat  may  decrease  because  of  the  increased  tendency  to  form  an 
oil-in-water  emulsion,  particularly  in  thin  batters.  In  addition,  at  tempera- 
tures at  which  the  fat  is  melted  or  very  soft  the  gluten  absorbs  w^ater 
rapidly  and  becomes  developed  rapidly.  This  development  of  the  gluten 
may  offset  increased  shortening  power  owing  to  the  soft  fat  coating  a 
greater  flour  surface. 

The  ingredients  and  their  concentration.  When  the  proportion  of  water 
in  the  product  is  rather  high,  as  in  griddle  cakes,  waffles,  and  muflfins,  or 
in  the  so-called  "pour"  batters,  the  consistency  of  the  batter  permits  the 
fat  to  form  spheres  easily  because  the  batter  is  not  stiff  enough  to  deform 
the  spheres  entirely.  Melted  fat  or  oil  is  generally  used  in  the  *'pour" 
batters.  In  addition  the  lecithio-protein  of  the  egg  yolk  used  in  these  prod- 
ucts has  strong  emulsifying  properties  and  increases  the  tendency  to  disperse 
the  melted  fat  or  oil  as  an  oil-in-water  emulsion.  Observations  have  shown 
that  the  major  portion  of  the  fat,  unless  the  fat  solidifies  and  with  the 
exception  of  fat  adsorbed  by  the  sugar  crystals,  is  distributed  as  an  oil-in- 
water  emulsion  in  thin  batters. 

In  biscuits  and  pastry,  in  which  the  proportion  of  water  is  relatively 
smaller,  and  because  the  method  of  adding  the  fat  to  the  flour  is  different 
from  that  in  the  "pour"  batters,  the  major  portion  of  the  fat  is  adsorbed 
by  or  coats  the  flour  particles.  In  cake  a  plastic  fat  like  butter,  when 
creamed  with  the  sugar,  always  produces  a  more  tender  product  than  when 
the  butter  is  melted.  And,  in  general,  all  plastic  fats  produce  more  tender 
cakes  than  oils  or  melted  fats. 

Consistency  of  fat  and  degree  of  saturation.  Both  these  factors  have  been 


SUMMARY  OF  EXPERIMENTAL  WORK  567 

considered.  Obviously  unsaturated  glycerides  have  an  opportunity  to  cover 
a  greater  surface  area  of  the  flour  particles  in  biscuits  and  pastry  because 
there  are  no  emulsifying  agents  such  as  egg  to  tend  to  prevent  their 
spreading. 

Concentration  of  fat.  Other  things  being  standardized,  the  surface  area 
covered  is  greater  as  the  concentration  of  the  fat  or  oil  is  increased. 

Shortening  power  of  a  fat  or  oil  varies  in  different  products.  Because  of 
differences  in  methods  of  combining,  in  the  concentration  and  kinds  of 
ingredients,  in  concentration  of  the  fat,  in  temperature  of  the  fat,  and  in 
manipulative  factors  the  shortening  power  of  the  same  fat  may  vary  in 
relation  to  that  of  other  fats  in  different  products.  For  example,  butter 
generally  produces  tougher  pastry  than  any  of  the  plastic  fats  or  the  oils 
commonly  used  in  food  preparation,  but  butter  generally  produces  more 
tender  cakes  than  oils.  The  more  tests  one  makes  to  determine  the  shorten- 
ing power  of  fats  and  oils,  the  more  one  hesitates  to  make  dogmatic  state- 
ments about  the  comparative  shortening  powers  of  various  fats.  However, 
in  considering  the  comparative  shortening  power  of  fats  and  oils,  the  results 
published  in  the  literature  are  usually  based  on  the  performance  of  the  fat 
in  pastry  only. 

Summary  of  Experimental  Work  by  Different  Investigators  on 
Shortening  Power  of  Fats  and  Oils 

A  machine  to  test  the  shortening  power  of  cooked  foods  needs  to  be 
very  sensitive.  Davis  has  devised  such  a  machine,  called  a  shortometer. 
From  tests  upon  cookies  he  reports  lard  to  be  the  best  shortening  agent. 
He  gives  no  explanation  of  the  results  obtained. 

Piatt  and  Fleming  have  stained  fats  and  oils  with  Sudan  HI,  a  red  dye 
soluble  in  fats  but  not  soluble  in  water,  and  examined  the  baked  products 
and  the  batter,  in  this  case  cookies,  under  the  microscope.  They  find  the 
fat  to  be  in  thin  layers  between  the  starch  granules  when  the  material  is 
mounted  dry.  In  some  instances  the  fat  completely  surrounds  the  starch 
granules;  in  others  the  granules  touch  with  no  fat  layer  between  them. 
These  layers  of  fat,  which  physically  separate  different  parts  of  the  dough 
and  prevent  them  from  coming  together  in  a  solid  mass,  vary  in  thickness 
in  different  sections  of  the  dough.  To  have  the  best  shortening  effect  a 
fat  must  adhere  to  the  flour  particles  and  not  be  squeezed  out  by  pressure. 
They  give  the  following  order  for  the  shortening  power  of  different  fats, 
lard  having  the  greatest  shortening  power. 

Lard 

Lard  compound 
Cottonseed  oil 
Butter 
Coconut  oil 
Vaseline 
>     Purified  petroleum  oils,  as  Nujol 


568  FATS  AND  OILS 

For  these  differences  In  shortening  power,  Piatt  and  Fleming  have  sug- 
gested that  the  following  factors  have  minor  or  major  effect:  viscosity, 
surface  tension  of  oil,  the  melting  point  of  the  fat,  and  orientation  of  the 
molecule  due  to  double  bonds  of  the  fatty  acid  chains  of  the  glycerides. 
The  following  is  a  short  summary  of  their  article. 

Viscosity  gives  a  fat  the  power  of  spreading  easily  in  the  dough ;  a  more 
viscous  fat  will  run  out  of  the  dough  less  readily  in  baking,  but  it  is  of 
relatively  little  importance  in  shortening  power,  as  shown  by  the  fact  that 
some  of  the  petroleum  products  were  as  viscid  as  lard  but  gave  less  shorten- 
ing power. 

A  melting  point  close  to  that  of  lard  seems  desirable,  yet  this  factor 
alone  is  not  a  satisfactory  explanation  in  all  cases,  as  coconut  oils  may  be 
prepared  having  the  same  melting  point  as  butter  but  less  shortening  power. 

Plasticity  gives  a  fat  the  ability  to  spread  easily,  which  is  beneficial ;  but 
the  fact  that  the  oils  having  no  plasticity  give  greater  shortening  power 
than  butter  shows  that  plasticity  is  only  one  of  the  important  factors. 

Owing  to  orientation  of  molecules,  fats  containing  unsaturated  glycerides 
cover  a  greater  surface  area  than  those  with  saturated  glycerides.  The 
shortening  power  of  fats  tested,  with  the  exception  of  lard  and  lard  com- 
pound, was  in  the  same  order  as  the  percentage  of  unsaturated  glycerides 
contained  by  the  fats. 

The  author  has  found  that  an  oil  is  partially  or  wholly  emulsified  as 
an  oil-in-water  emulsion  in  uncooked  cake  batter.  However,  the  cake  batter 
contained  milk  and  egg,  whereas  the  cooky  batter  of  Piatt  and  Fleming 
did  not  contain  milk.  In  cake  batters  an  unmelted  fat  is  distributed  in 
sheets,  layers,  or  films  of  different  thicknesses  between  the  starch  granules, 
and  around  the  air  bubbles  and  sugar  crystals.  Whether  the  oil  remains 
emulsified  during  baking  of  a  cake  batter  might  have  some  effect  on  the 
finished  product,  but  the  distribution  of  the  oil  or  fat  when  the  batter 
or  dough  is  being  mixed  undoubtedly  affects  the  tenderness,  for  this  is  the 
period  w^hen  the  gluten  is  being  developed. 

Sudan  III  was  first  used  in  oils  and  fats.  In  trying  to  take  photomicro- 
graphs it  was  found  that  the  Sudan  III  dye  was  not  always  deep  enough 
in  value  to  give  a  clear  picture.  Dr.  Benbrook  and  Miss  Sloss  of  the 
Veterinary  Department  suggested  using  Scarlet  R  or  Scharlach  R,  which 
stained  the  fat  or  oil  a  deeper  color  than  Sudan  III.  It  was  a  surprise  to 
find  that  Scarlet  R  aided  In  locating  some  distributions  not  found  w^ith 
Sudan  III.  Often  the  dyed  fat  can  be  seen  through  the  microscope  when  the 
color  Is  not  Intense  enough  to  show  clearly  in  a  photomicrograph. 

Fisher  found  lard  to  have  the  greatest  shortening  power  of  the  plastic 
fats  tested  in  pastry.  Using  41  and  44  per  cent  of  fat  (based  on  weight  of 
the  flour)  she  found  the  shortening  value  of  5  lards,  2  hydrogenated 
cottonseed  oils,  1  hydrogenated  lard,  an  animal  stearin,  and  1  all-vegetable 
oil  compound  as  determined  by  breaking  strength  with  the  Bailey  Shortom- 


SHORTENING  EXPERIMENTS  WITH  PASTRY        569 

eter  approximately  paralleled  their  congealing  points,  those  fats  having  the 
lowest  congealing  point  having  the  greatest  shortening  power. 

Noble,  McLaughlin,  and  Halliday  investigated  several  factors  influenc- 
ing the  apparent  shortening  value  of  a  fat,  using  a  modified  shortbread 
(sugar  added  to  a  pastry  formula).  They  found  that  creaming  the  fat  and 
sugar  to  a  maximum  volume  produced  wafers  with  smaller  breaking 
strength,  as  determined  by  a  Bailey  Shortometer,  than  when  the  same  fat 
was  creamed  to  a  minimum  volume.  Also  after  adding  the  flour  and  liquid 
to  the  creamed  mass,  thorough  mixing  so  that  no  spots  of  creamed  fat  and 
sugar  showed  produced  markedly  more  tender  wafers  than  when  the 
dough  was  incompletely  mixed.  If  no  flour  was  sprinkled  on  the  board  for 
rolling,  wafers  markedly  more  tender  resulted  than  when  the  minimum 
amount  of  flour  to  prevent  sticking  was  used.  Beating  the  extra  flour  into 
the  dough  gave  a  more  tender  product  than  using  it  in  rolling  but  a  less 
tender  one  than  omitting  it  entirely. 

Shortening  experiments  with  pastry.  Denton  and  Lowe  have 
determined  the  shortening  power  of  different  fats  in  pastry.  'Tastry  was 
chosen  for  the  baked  product  in  their  experiments,  as  it  is  commonly  used, 
contains  a  large  proportion  of  fat  and  is  made  with  a  small  number  of 
ingredients.  In  addition  to  fat  it  contains  water,  flour,  and  salt."  The 
pastry  was  mixed  in  a  KitchenAid  and  the  materials  were  incubated  before 
mixing,  so  that  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed  was  80 °F. 

Denton  and  Lowe  used  the  shortometer  as  designed  by  Davis  for  the 
shortening  tests.  Weight  is  applied  at  the  upper  end  of  a  vertical  rod.  At 
the  lower  end  of  the  rod  a  bar  is  attached  which  rests  across  the  material 
to  be  broken.  The  crushing  strength  was  determined  by  substituting  for 
the  bar  a  rod  which  punctured  a  hole  in  the  pastry.  Sometimes  the  weight 
rested  an  appreciable  length  of  time  on  the  pastry  before  breaking  or 
crushing  occurred.  Thus  they  found  in  the  breaking  and  crushing  tests 
that  the  rate  at  which  the  load  is  applied  and  the  time  through  which  the 
load  acts  are  both  factors  in  determining  the  breaking  and  the  crushing 
strength  of  pastry,  which  is  quite  fragile.  In  order  to  obtain  a  more  uniform 
rate  of  loading  than  with  shot  they  used  mercury,  run  from  a  burette  into 
a  receptacle  resting  on  a  cap  at  the  top  of  the  shortometer.  Thus  the  weight 
or  load  for  crushing  the  pastry  gradually  increased. 

Denton  and  Lowe  found  that  in  general  the  fats  and  the  oils  having 
the  highest  percentage  of  unsaturated  glycerides  gave  the  shortest  pastries. 
They  found  an  exception  in  butter,  which  gave  less  shortening  power 
than  coconut  oil,  although  moisture-free  butter,  with  only  the  butter  fat 
used,  drained  free  of  curd,  produced  a  very  tender  pastry.  Here  the  heat- 
ing of  the  butter  fat  to  render  it  moisture  free  may  have  affected  its 
shortening  power. 

From  data.  Table  65,  it  can  be  seen  that  the  order  for  different  fats 
in  the  table  varies  in  some  cases  according  to  whether  the  crushing  or  the 
breaking  average  is  taken.  Therefore,  the  results  should  be  taken  in  groups 


570 


FATS  AND  OILS 


TABLE  65* 

Breaking  and  Crushing  Strength  of  Different  Pastries  Made  under 
Standardized  Conditions.     (Each  Figure  an  Average  of  48  Tests.) 
Temperature  of  Ingredients  When  Mixed  80°F.     {Denton  and  Lowe) 


Kind  of  fat 


Melting 

point, 

°C. 


Grams 

to 
break 


Grams 

to 
crush 


PufF  pastry  shortening 

Nutmargarine 

Puff  pastry  shortening  (moisture  free) 

Butter,  sample  I 

Butter,  sample  II 

Petrolatum 

Mineral  oil,  purified 

Nutmargarine  (moisture  free) 

Coconut  oil 

Commercial  coconut  fat 

Lard,  all  leaf,  sample  Ilf 

Lard,  all  leaf,  sample  I 

Lard,  largely  leaf,  sample  I 

Lard,  largely  leaf,  sample  III 

Hydrogenated  cottonseed  oil 

Lard,  bulk 

Cottonseed  oil,  emulsion  made  of  oil  and  water 

Lard,  second  grade 

Butter,  moisture-free,  curd  removed 

Cottonseed  oil 

Corn  oil 

Chicken  oil  or  fat 


61.0 

28.4 

34.7 


19.5 
44.6 

40.6 


45.4 
41.4 


612 
644 
592 
530 
525 
402 
418 
340 

334 
350 
344 
327 
276 
317 
316 
266 
261 
268 
249 
240 
233 


1380 

1096 

1000 

902 

802 
680 
635 
554 
588 
537 
532 
477 
487 
527 
506 
466 
528 
398 
387 
399 
399 
375 


*Published  by  courtesy  of  Dr.  Louise  Stanley,  Chief,  Bureau  of  Home  Eco- 
nomics. Experimental  work  on  pastry  done  at  the  Bureau  of  Home  Economics, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

fAverage  of  96  tests. 

rather  than  individual  experiments.  The  oils,  corn,  cottonseed,  and  chicken 
gave  the  most  tender  pastries.  The  pastries  next  in  order  were  obtained 
with  second-grade  lard,  bulk  lard,  or  when  a  temporary  emulsion  was 
made  by  shaking  the  oil  and  the  water  and  then  adding  this  emulsion 
quickly  to  the  flour.  The  latter  is  a  method  often  suggested  in  recipes,  as 
it  tends  to  produce  a  flakier  and  less  crumbly  pastry  than  when  the  oil  is 
first  mixed  with  the  flour  and  the  water  added  last. 

Puff  pastry  shortening.  The  puff  pastry  shortening  is  a  product  con- 
taining about  30  to  45  per  cent  of  oleostearin  and  from  45  to  60  per  cent 
of  cottonseed  or  other  vegetable  oil.  It  is  prepared  by  mixing  the  ingre- 


EFFECT  OF  EXTENT  OF  MIXING  571 

dients  and  heating  to  a  common  melting  point,  mixing,  chilling  in  water, 
and  working.  The  finished  product  has  7  to  10  per  cent  of  moisture.  It  is 
very  waxy,  and  is  easily  rolled  in  thin  layers  for  use  in  puff  pastry,  for 
which  it  produces  excellent  results,  but  it  is  poor  for  ordinary  pastry. 

Butter  and  margarine.  Butter  and  margarine  gave  a  very  hard  pastry. 
The  emulsified  fats,  such  as  butter,  margarine,  and  puff  pastry  shortening, 
gave  harder  pastries  than  their  moisture-free  products.  To  render  the 
butter  and  margarine  moisture  free,  they  were  heated  at  75  °C. 

Class  results.  Class  results  are  in  agreement  with  results  by  the 
shortometer.  There  is  enough  difference  in  the  shortening  power  of  dif- 
ferent fats,  so  that  pastries  in  which  butter,  lard,  hydrogenated  fats  and 
oils,  and  oil  have  been  used  can  be  placed  in  order  of  tenderness  by  break- 
ing with  the  fingers,  if  the  pastry  has  been  made  under  standardized  con- 
ditions. Butter  gives  the  hardest  and  toughest,  and  oil  may  give  the  most 
tender.  The  lards  usually  give  more  tender  pastry  than  the  hydrogenated 
fats  or  hydrogenated  oils.  Observing  housekeepers  often  state  that  they 
obtain  shorter  pastry  from  second-grade  lard,  although  the  odor  and  flavor 
may  not  be  so  good  as  the  first-grade  lard.  Second-grade  lards  contain  a 
higher  percentage  of  the  unsaturated  glycerides.  Two  types  of  pastry  are 
obtained  with  oil.  If  the  pastry  is  crumbly,  the  oil  yields  the  most  tender 
pastry  of  the  series.  However,  if  it  is  flaky,  the  pastry  may  be  about  as  tough 
and  hard  as  that  with  butter  or  like  the  lard.  These  two  types  are  probably 
due  to  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed,  the  thoroughness 
with  which  the  oil  is  mixed  with  the  flour  before  the  water  is  added,  the 
extent  of  mixing  the  water  with  the  flour,  and  the  proportion  of  water. 
Longer  mixing  after  the  water  is  added  seems  to  increase  the  flakiness  of 
the  pastry  made  with  oil.  For  several  quarters  the  class  has  had  only  flaky 
pastry  with  oil,  the  pastry  being  mixed  40  to  50  strokes  with  a  three- 
tined  fork. 

Increasing  the  fat  results  in  a  more  tender  pastry.  Increasing  the  water 
in  a  given  recipe  decreases  the  tenderness  of  pastry.  If  both  fat  and  water 
are  increased,  the  result  depends  upon  the  proportion  of  each  used;  but 
unless  the  increase  in  fat  is  very  small,  the  resulting  pastry  is  more  tender, 
the  fat  having  a  greater  effect  than  the  water.  The  gluten  of  pastry  flour 
cannot  be  developed  to  the  extent  that  gluten  of  bread  flour  can;  thus 
pastry  flour  gives  a  more  tender  pastry  than  bread  flour  if  the  conditions 
under  which  the  pastries  are  made  are  standardized. 

Effect  of  extent  of  mixing  on  shortness  of  pastry.  The  extent  of 
mixing  after  the  water  is  added  affects  the  shortness  of  pastry.  It  is  rather 
interesting  that,  although  longer  mixing,  a  great  deal  of  handling,  and 
rerolling  tend  to  increase  the  toughness  of  pastry,  mixing  the  water  and 
flour  with  a  fork  or  a  utensil  which  cuts  through  the  dough  instead  of 
packing  it,  as  in  Experiment  95B,  for  40  to  50  strokes,  usually  gives  a 
more  tender  pastry  than  mixing  20  to  30  strokes.  But  handling  the  pastry 
after   it   is   mixed,    i.e.,    kneading   and    rerolling,    increases   its   toughness, 


572  FATS  AND  OILS 

though  very  careful  reroUing  may  increase  the  flakiness  without  materially 
increasing  its  toughness. 

Flakiness.  Flakiness  is  considered  a  desirable  quality  in  pastry.  Melted 
fats  and  the  oils  usually  give  a  more  crumbly  and  a  less  flaky  crust, 
although  a  flaky  crust  is  often  obtained  with  oil  or  melted  fat.  Bread  flour 
tends  to  give  a  more  flaky  crust  than  soft-wheat  flour.  The  temperature  of 
the  ingredients  may  affect  the  flakiness.  With  the  harder  fats  there  is  a 
greater  tendency  for  the  fat  to  stay  in  layers,  as  flakiness  depends  upon  the 
layers  of  fat  and  flour  being  separated  by  steam  and  probably  to  a  lesser 
extent  by  air  in  the  baking.  The  proportion  of  water  to  fat  has  some  effect. 
When  the  proportion  of  water  to  fat  exceeds  or  falls  below  a  certain  ratio, 
the  pastry  is  less  flaky.  The  extent  of  mixing  the  fat  with  the  flour,  as 
well  as  the  method  of  combining  the  water,  by  mixing  or  by  cutting  the 
water  into  the  fat  and  flour,  may  also  influence  the  flakiness  of  the  pastry. 
The  method  of  handling  the  dough  may  have  some  effect.  Rerolling  and 
careful  handling  may  increase  flakiness  and  also  toughness.  The  flakiness 
of  pastry  is  also  increased  by  rolling  with  thin  layers  of  fat  between  layers 
of  the  dough. 

Soaking  of  crust  in  baking  pies.  Excessive  soaking  of  the  crust 
during  and  after  baking  occurs  most  frequently  with  fruit  pies,  as  cherry, 
blackberry,  blueberry,  and  loganberry,  and  custard  pies.  Many  suggestions 
to  prevent  soaking  have  been  offered  and  these  have  been  collected  in 
Experiment  98.  Tests,  using  pastry  made  in  one  batch  and  rolling  all  to 
the  same  thickness,  have  shown  that  partially  baking  the  under  crust  before 
adding  the  filling  only  increases  the  soaking.  Brushing  the  under  crust  with 
butter  or  fat  aids  to  a  certain  extent,  but  for  cooked  or  canned  fruit 
thickening  the  juice  before  adding  the  filling  to  the  pastry  is  the  most 
effective  means  of  preventing  soaking.  If  fresh  cherries  or  berries  are  used, 
then  mixing  flour  or  cornstarch  with  the  sugar  is  as  good  as  cooking  the 
fruit  first  before  adding  it  to  the  pie.  The  only  advantage  of  cooking  and 
thickening  fresh  fruit  before  adding  the  hot  filling  to  the  pastry  is  that  it 
shortens  the  cooking  time  in  the  oven. 

The  best  Avay  to  prevent  soaking  of  the  crust  in  custard  pie  has  been 
mentioned  in  the  chapter  on  eggs,  that  is,  cooking  the  filling  and  pastry 
separately.  If  this  is  not  desirable,  scalding  the  milk  before  adding  it  to 
the  eggs  and  using  3  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk  help  the  custard  to  set  more 
rapidly. 

LITERATURE  CITED  AND  REFERENCES 

Andrews,  J.  T.  R.  Gaseous  Decomposition  Products  of  Rancid  Oils,  Oil  & 
Soap.  12:  104  (1935). 

Bloor,  W.  R.     Biochemistry  of  Fats.     Chem.  Rev.  2:  243    (1925). 

Blunt,  K.,  and  Feeney,  C.  M,  The  Smoking  Temperature  of  Edible  Fats.  J.  Home 
Econ.  7:  535  (1915). 

Browne,  C.  A.  A  Contribution  to  the  Chemistry  of  Butter-Fat.  III.  The  Chem- 
istry of  Rancidity  of  Butter-Fat.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  21:  975    (1899). 


FATS  AND  OILS  573 

Cawood,    J.    F.     Shortening    Value    of    Plastic    Fats.     Ind.    Eng.    Chem.    26:    968 

(1934). 
Coe,   M.  R.     Photochemical   Studies  of  Rancidity;    Induction   Period   of   Protected 

and  Non-Protected  Oils.     Oil  &  Soap.  13:  197   (1936). 
Coe,  M.  R.,   and  Le  Clerc,  J.  A.     Antioxidants  vs.   Green  Light  Protection.     Oil 

&  Soap.  12:  231   (1935). 
Davies,  W.  L.     The  Deterioration  of  Fat  in  Foodstuffs.     Food  Technology  1 :  141, 

181,  and  269   (1931-32). 
Davis,    C.    E.     Shortening;    Its    Definition    and    Measurement.     Ind.    Eng.    Chem. 

13:  797  (1921). 
Denton,    M.    C,    and    Lowe,    B.     The    Shortening    Power    of    Fats.     Unpublished 

paper.     Bureau   of  Home  Economics.     Part  of  paper  used   by   permission   of 

Dr.  Louise  Stanley,   Chief,  Bureau  of  Home  Economics,   Dept.   of  Agri. 
Denton,  M.  C,  and  Pritchett,  L.  B.     Experiments  in  Making  Doughnuts  of  Low 

Fat  Absorption.     J.  Home  Econ.  13:  255  and  309   (1921). 
Denton,  M.  C,  Wengel,  E.,  and  Pritchett,  L.  B.     Absorption  of  Fat  by  Fried  Bat- 
ters and  Doughs,  and  Causes  of  Variations.     J.  Home  Econ.  12:  111    (1920). 
Denton,  M.  C,  Gordon,  B.,  and  Sperry,  R.     Study  of  Tenderness  in  Pastries  Made 

from  Flours  of  Varying  Strengths.     Cereal  Chem.  10:  156   (1933). 
Fisher,  J.  D.     Shortening  Value  of  Plastic  Fats.     Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  25 :  1171   (1933). 
Greenbank,  G.  R.     The  Oxidation  of  Fats  in  Storage.    Oil  &  Soap.  13:  140  (1936). 
Hamilton,  L.  A.,   and   Olcott,   H.   S.     Antioxidants   and  the  Autoxidation   of   Fats 

vs.  Mode  of  Action  of  Anti-  and  Pro-Oxidants.     Oil  &  Soap.  13:  127   (1936). 
Harkins,  W.   D.,   and   Cheng,   G.   C.     The   Orientation  of  Molecules  in   Surfaces. 

VI.     Cohesion,  Adhesion,  Tensile  Strength,  Tensile  Energy,  Negative  Energy, 

Interfacial   Tension   and   Molecular  Attraction.     J.   Am.   Chem.    Soc.   43:   351 

(1921). 
Harkins,  W.  D.,  Clark,  G.  L.,  and  Roberts,  L.  E.     The  Orientation  of  Molecules 

in    Surfaces,    Surface    Energy,    Absorption,    and    Surface    Catalysis.     V.     The 

Adhesional  Work  between  Organic  Liquids   and  Water.     J.  Am.   Chem.   Soc. 

42:  700  (1920). 
Hilditch,    T.    P.     Fats    and    Waxes.     Chapter    VIII.     Bailliers,    Tindall    &    Cox 

(1927). 
Iowa    State    College    Experiment    Station,    Cooperative    Investigation    on    Lard. 

(Unpublished  results.)      (1932.) 
Jamieson,  G.  S.     Vegetable  Fats  and  Oils.     Am.  Chemical  Soc.  Monograph  Series. 

No.  58.     The  Chemical  Catalog  Co.   (1932). 
Jamieson,  G.  S.,  and  Baughman,  W.  F.    Cotton  Oil  Press.  7:  35,  No.  2  (1923). 
Jamieson,  G.  S.,  and  Baughman,  W.  F.     The  Chemical  Composition  of  Cottonseed 

Oil.     Cotton  Oil  Press  4:  61   (1920). 
Jamieson,  G.  S.,  and  Baughman,  W.  F.  Analyses  of  Authentic  Commercial   Corn 

Oils.     Cotton  Oil  Press  7:  34  (1924). 
Kerr,  R.  H.     Unsaturated  Fatty  Acids  of  Chicken  Fat.     Personal  communication. 
Kerr,  R.  H.,  and  Sorber,  D.  J.     The  Analytical  Detection  of  Rancidity.  Ind.  Eng. 

Chem.  15:383  (1923). 
King,  A.  E.,  Roschen,   H.  L.,   and   Irwin,  W.   H.     An  Accelerated   Stability  Test 

Using  the  Peroxide  Value  as  an  Index.     Oil  &  Soap.  10:  105   (1933). 
King,    A.   E.,   Roschen,    H.    L.,    and    Irwin,    W.    H.     The    Accelerating    Effect    of 

Metals    on    the    Development    of    Peroxides    in    Oils    and    Fats.      Oil    &    Soap. 

10:  204  (1933). 
King,  F.  B.,  Loughlin,  R.,  Riemenschneider,  R.  W.,  and  Ellis,   N.  R.     The  Rela- 
tive Value  of  Various  Lards  and   Other  Fats  for   Deep-Fat  Frying  of  Potato 

Chips.     J.  Agri.  Research  53:  369   (1936). 
Langmuir,  I.     The  Constitution  and  Fundamental  Properties  of  Solids  and  Liquids. 

IL     Liquids.     J.  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  39:  1848   (1917). 


574  FATS  AND  OILS 

Lea,    C.    H.     Antioxidants    and    the    Preservation    of    Edible    Fats.     J.    Soc.    Chem. 

Ind.  55:  294T   (1936). 
Lewkowitsch,   J.     Chemical   Technology   and    Analysis   of    Oils,    Fats    and    Waxes. 

Macmillan  Co.,  London  (1909). 
Masters,   H.,   and    Smith,   H.  L,     The   Changes   in   the   Character   of   Fats    During 

the  Process  of  Cooking.     Analyst  39:  347    (1914). 
McKee,    M.    C.     Fat    Absorption    in    Frying    Doughnuts.     J.    Home    Econ.    10:    18 

(1918). 
Morgan,  A.  F.,  and  Cozens,  E.  R.     Changes  in  Physical  and   Chemical   Constants 

of  Fats  Used  for  Frying  a  Standard  Dough.     J.  Home  Econ.   11:  394   (1919). 
Musher,    S.     Cereals    and    Seeds    Inhibit    Rancidity    in    Lard.     Food    Ind.    7:    167 

(1935). 
Musher,  8.     Inhibiting  Rancidity.     Food  Ind.  7:  329    (1935). 

Noble,  I.  T.,   McLaughlin,   H.,   and  Halliday,  E.   G.     Factors   Influencing  the   Ap- 
parent Shortening  Value  of  a  Fat.     Cereal  Chem.  11:  343    (1934). 
Olcott,    H.    S.,    and   Mattill,    H.    A.     Antioxidants    and    the    Autoxidation    of    Fats. 

IV.  Lecithin  as  an  Antioxidant.     Oil  &  Soap.  13:  98   (1936). 
Piatt,  W.     Shortening  and  the  Chemistry  of  Baking.     Am.  Food  J.  18:  372   (1923). 
Piatt,  W.     Shortening  in  Sweet  Doughs.     Baking  Technology  2:  216    (1923). 
Piatt,  W.,    and    Fleming,   R.    S.     The   Action    of    Shortening    in   the    Light    of    the 

Newer  Theories  of  Surface  Phenomena.    Ind.  Eng.  Chem.  15:  390  (1923). 
Triebold,  H.  O.     Rancidity.     Cereal  Chem.  8 :  518  (1931). 

Triebold,  H.  O.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     A  Chemical   Study  of  Rancidity.     I.     Autoxi- 
dation of  Shortenings  and  Crackers.     Cereal  Chem.  9:  50    (1932). 
Triebold,  H.  O.,  and  Bailey,  C.  H.     A  Chemical  Study  of  Rancidity.     II.     Factors 

Influencing  the  Keeping  Quality  of  Shortenings  and  Crackers.     Cereal   Chem. 

9:  91   (1932). 
Triebold,  H.  O.,  Webb,  R.  E.,  and  Rudy,  W.  J.     A  Chemical  Study  of  Rancidity. 

III.     Some    Recent    Developments    in    the    Study    of    Oxidative    Rancidity    of 

Special  Interest  to  the  Cereal  Industry.     Cereal  Chem.   10:  263    (1933). 
Williams,  A.  W.,  and  Gray,  C.  E.     Fats  and  Oils  in  Cooking.     University  of  111. 

Bull.  47   (1917). 
Wilson,    R.    E.,    and    Barnard,    D.    P.    4th.     The    Mechanism    of    Lubrication.     II. 

Methods   of   Measuring  the   Property   of   Oiliness.      Ind.   Eng.    Chem.    14:   683 

(1922). 
Woodruff,  S.,  and  Blunt,  K.     Changes  in  Fats  Absorbed  by  Fried  Foods.     J.  Home 


Econ.  11:  440   (1919), 


FATS  AND  OILS 


Experiment  89. 

To  determine  the  smoking  temperatures  of  different  fats. 

Use,  preferably,  evaporating  dishes  or  small  sauce  pans  of  the  same  size. 
Have  the  fat  come  to  within  1  inch  of  the  top  of  the  dish.  Heat  the  fat  slowly. 
When  you  see  the  first  puff  of  smoke,  record  the  temperature  of  the  fat. 
Cool  and  take  the  smoking  temperature  a  second  time.  Compare  the  smoking 
temperature  of  olive  oil,  cottonseed  oil,  peanut  oil,  corn  oil,  fresh  hydrogenated 
fat,  lard,  used  lard,  and  used  hydrogenated  fat. 


Kind  of  fat 


Smoking  temperature 


FATS  AND  OILS 


575 


Experiment  90. 

To  determine  the  factors  which  may  cause  variations  in  the  smoking  tem- 
perature of  the  same  fat. 

1.  Take  the  temperature  of  used  hydrogenated  fat  or  used  lard  in  a  large 
kettle.  Compare  with  the  smoking  temperature  of  used  hydrogenated  fat  or 
used  lard  in  the  small  dish  under  Experiment  89. 

2.  Take  the  smoking  temperature  of  hydrogenated  fat  to  which  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  has  been  added.  Compare  with  the  smoking  temperature  of  hydro- 
genated fat  under  Experiment  89. 


Smoking  temperature 


Experiment  91. 

Household  tests  for  determining  the  temperature  of  fats. 

Find  the  temperature  of  a  fat  when  a  cube  of  dry  bread  browns  in  60 
seconds ;  in  40  seconds ;  in  20  seconds. 

Make  the  first  test  when  the  fat  is  at  170°C.  (340° F.).  Which  temperature 
is  said  to  be  used  for  cooking  raw  foods?  For  browning  cooked  foods? 


jeconds 


Temperature 


Experiment  92. 

To  determine  the  temperature  at  which  foods  actually  cook. 

Use  potatoes  sliced  and  cut  into  strips,  and  croquettes.  When  the  fat  has 
reached  the  temperature  which  has  been  decided  as  best  for  cooking  raw  foods 
under  Experiment  91,  immerse  the  food  in  the  fat.  Watch  the  temperature  of 
the  fat  as  the  food  cooks.  Note  also  the  time  required  to  brown  the  food.  Do 
you  think  as  a  result  of  this  experiment  that  heating  a  fat  to  its  smoking 
temperature  always  gives  a  desirable  temperature  for  cooking  foods? 


Tempera- 
ture of  fat 

Tempera- 
ture of  fat 
during 
cooking 

Length  of 

time  to 

cook 

Fat  absorbed 

Kmd  of  food 

Grams 

Per  cent 

Experiment  93. 

To  determine  the  tendency  of  fats  to  retain  the  flavor  of  food  that  has  been 
cooked  in  the  fat. 


576  FATS  AND  OILS 

Use  hydrogenated  fat,  cottonseed  oil,  lard,  or  other  fat  or  oil.  Cook  fish  or 
onions  in  the  fats,  then  potato  cut  in  strips.  Cook  croquettes  also.  Do  the 
potato  and  croquettes  taste  of  fish  or  onions? 

Doughnuts 
Experiment  94. 

To  determine  the  factors  which  influence   the  tenderness,   the   texture,   and 
the  amount  of  fat  absorbed  in  doughnuts. 
Recipe: 

Flour  Syi  cups  588  grams  or  use  the  amount  found  best  under  A 

Baking  powder  2  tablespoons  21  grams 

Salt  1  teaspoon  4  grams 

Sugar  1  cup  200  grams 

Fat  2  tablespoons  25  grams 

Eggs  2  96  grams 

Milk  1  cup  244  grams 

Nutmeg  H  teaspoon 

Cinnamon  H  teaspoon 

It  is  more  convenient  to  work  in  groups  of  five  or  six  girls  for  the  doughnut 
experiments.  It  will  take  two  girls  to  fry  the  doughnuts;  one  to  watch  the 
temperature,  one  to  time,  to  put  the  doughnuts  in,  turn,  and  take  them  out  of 
the  fat.  Or  a  third  girl  may  time  the  cooking.  One  girl  should  do  all  the 
mixing,  doing  it  in  the  same  way  each  time  and  with  the  number  of  strokes 
designated  under  each  experiment.  Another  girl  should  do  all  the  rolling  and 
cutting,  handling  each  batch  in  the  same  way  and  trying  not  to  stretch  or  pull 
the  cut  dough  out  of  shape.  Other  girls  may  weigh  the  materials.  The  eggs 
should  be  beaten  together  for  all  the  experiments  to  be  done  by  the  group  in 
one  period.  It  is  best  not  to  use  the  results  of  the  first  mixing  for  comparisons 
but  to  use  them  for  obtaining  technic  in  handling  the  dough  in  mixing,  cutting, 
and  cooking. 

Directions  for  mixing. 

Remove  the  flour  for  rolling  before  the  baking  powder  is  added  to  it.  Sift 
the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  2  times.  Combine  the  thoroughly  beaten 
eggs,  sugar,  salt,  and  softened  or  melted  fat,  mixing  until  very  light  and  fluffy. 
Use  the  same  kind  and  size  of  bowl  for  mixing  the  materials  for  each  experi- 
ment. Add  the  milk  and  flour  to  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  the  designated 
amount. 

Roll  the  dough  between  boards  yi  or  y%  inch  in  thickness,  tacked  to  a  bread 
board,  so  that  all  the  doughnuts  will  be  the  same  thickness.  Each  group  should 
use  cutters  that  have  the  same  diameter.  If  the  dough  is  divided  into  2  parts 
and  each  half  rolled  in  part  of  the  flour  and  shaped  into  a  long  roll  before 
placing  between  the  boards  it  facilitates  ease  of  handling.  There  should  be  3 
doughnuts  from  each  part  of  the  dough  and  6  for  each  experiment. 

In  cooking,  the  doughnuts  should  be  turned  when  half  of  the  time  allowed 
for  cooking  is  gone.  When  the  time  is  up,  lift  each  doughnut  quickly  from 
the  fat  onto  a  skewer  held  over  the  kettle  so  that  the  fat  will  drain  back  into 
the  kettle.  The  doughnuts  should  be  turned  and  taken  out  in  the  same  order 
they  are  put  into  the  fat. 


DOUGHNUTS 


577 


Weigh  the  kettle  of  fat  before  and  after  cooking  the  doughnuts  for  each 
experiment.  The  loss  of  weight  of  kettle  of  fat  is  the  amount  of  fat  absorbed 
by  the  doughnuts.  Weigh  the  doughnuts  before  and  after  cooking  if  the  per- 
centage of  fat  absorbed  is  to  be  calculated.  The  percentage  of  fat  in  the  cooked 
doughnuts  may  be  determined  by  analysis,  but  this  requires  too  long  a  time 
for  class  results.  The  percentage  of  fat  absorbed  may  be  based  on  the  weight 
of  the  cooked  doughnuts  or  on  the  weight  of  the  uncooked  doughnuts.  Denton 
has  suggested  that  the  former  is  preferable,  and  this  method  has  been  used 
in  calculating  the  results  given  in  the  tables. 

A.  To  determine  the  best  proportion  of  flour  to  use. 

The  proportion  of  flour  to  produce  a  tender  doughnut  of  good  texture  varies 
with  different  brands  and  kinds  of  flour.  Therefore,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
determine  the  best  proportion  for  the  kind  and  brand  that  you  use;  this  pro- 
portion is  to  be  used  in  the  following  experiments.  With  some  flours  it  will  be 
necessary  to  start  with  5j4  cups  or  6  cups  of  flour  instead  of  5^^  cups.  The 
dough  should  be  soft  and  light  but  not  too  sticky.  If  desired,  two  series  of 
experiments  may  be  run,  using  bread  flour  in  one  and  soft-wheat  flour  in 
the  other. 

Prepare  ^  of  the  recipe,  reserving  1  tablespoon  of  flour  for  the  board.  Mix 
the  dough  80  strokes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Follow  directions  for  rolling  and 
cutting.  Cook  the  6  doughnuts  for  3  minutes  at  175°  to  180°C.  (345°  to 
355°F.). 

1.  Use  5y2  cups  of  flour  (616  grams)  for  the  full  recipe. 

2.  Use  5}i  cups  of  flour  (588  grams)  for  the  full  recipe. 

3.  Use  5  cups  of  flour  (560  grams)  for  the  full  recipe. 

4.  Use  4}i  cups  of  flour  (532  grams)  for  the  full  recipe. 

B.  To  determine  the  effect  of  extent  of  mixing  upon  tenderness,  texture,  and 
fat  absorption  of  doughnuts. 

1.  Prepare  the  full  recipe,  reserving  4  tablespoons  of  flour  for  rolling.  Use 
the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  under  A.  Mix  a  total  of  40  strokes  with 
a  wooden  spoon.  Observe  and  record  any  changes  in  the  dough  during  mixing. 
Remove  approximately  54  of  the  dough  (about  280  grams).  Follow  directions 
for  rolling.  Cook  the  6  doughnuts  for  3  minutes  at  175°  to  180°C.  Use  the 
remaining  dough  in  the  following  experiments. 

2.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  Bl  a  total  of  60  strokes  and  remove 
approximately  280  grams.  Proceed  as  in  Bl. 

3.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  B2  a  total  of  80  strokes.  Remove  approxi- 
mately 280  grams.  Proceed  as  in  Bl. 

4.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  B3  a  total  of  100  strokes.  Proceed  as  in 
Bl. 


Weight  of 
dough- 

Weight of 
dough- 
nuts 
after 
cooking 

Amount  of  fat 
absorbed 

Appear- 
ance 

Color 

Vol- 
ume 

Tex- 
ture 

Com- 

nuts 

before 

cooking 

Grams 

Per 
cent 

ments 

578  FATS  AND  OILS 

C.  Temperature  and  time  of  cooking. 

Prepare  %  of  the  recipe.  Use  the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  under  A, 
and  mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  B. 

1.  Cook  2  minutes  at  155°  to  160°C.  (310°  to  320°F.). 

2.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  3  minutes. 

3.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  4  minutes. 

4.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  2  minutes  at  175°  to  180°C.  (345°  to  355°F.). 

5.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  3  minutes  at  175°  to  180°C. 

6.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  4  minutes  at  175°  to  180°C. 

7.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  2  minutes  at  195°  to  200°C.  (380°  to  390°F.). 

8.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  3  minutes  at  195°  to  200°C. 

9.  Repeat  CI,  but  cook  4  minutes  at  195°  to  200°C. 

D.  To  determine  the  effect  of  letting  the  dough  stand  a  short  time  before 
cooking  upon  fat  absorption. 

1.  Prepare  all  the  recipe.  Reserve  4  tablespoons  of  flour  for  rolling.  Use  the 
proportion  of  flour  found  best  under  A  and  the  number  of  strokes  for  mixing 
found  best  under  B.  Use  the  time  and  temperature  of  cooking  found  best  under 
C.  Use  approximately  ^  of  the  dough  and  cook  the  doughnuts  as  soon  as 
possible  after  mixing  and  rolling. 

2.  Use  approximately  yi  of  the  dough  and  let  the  doughnuts  stand  >^  hour 
or  longer  after  rolling  and  cutting  before  they  are  cooked.  Use  the  remaining 
dough  for  the  following  experiments. 

3.  Let  approximately  ^  of  the  dough  from  Dl  stand  for  Yz  hour  or  longer; 
then  roll,  cut,  and  cook  the  doughnuts. 

4.  Let  54  o^  the  dough  from  Dl  stand  ^^  hour  or  longer.  After  the  dough 
has  stood,  mix  with  10  additional  strokes  before  rolling. 

If  desired,  1^  times  the  recipe  may  be  mixed  and  one  part  of  the  dough 
chilled  ^  hour  or  longer  before  rolling. 

E.  To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  fat  absorption  of  increasing 
the  proportion  of  sugar. 

1.  Prepare  the  full  recipe,  using  the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  under  A. 
Reserve  4  tablespoons  of  flour  for  rolling.  Increase  the  sugar  to  1^  cups 
(300  grams).  Mix  140  strokes  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  remove  approxi- 
mately %  of  the  dough  (about  300  grams).  Roll  according  to  directions.  Cook 
6  doughnuts  at  175°  to  180°C.  for  3  minutes  or  at  the  temperature  and  time 
found  desirable  under  C. 

2.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  El  a  total  of  160  strokes  and  remove 
approximately  300  grams.  Follow  directions  under  El. 

3.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  E2  a  total  of  180  strokes  and  remove 
approximately  300  grams.  Follow  directions  under  El. 

4.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  E3  a  total  of  200  strokes.  Follow  direc- 
tions under  El. 

F.  To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  fat  absorption  of  increasing 
the  fat  in  the  recipe. 

1.  Increase  the  fat  in  the  recipe  to  4  tablespoons.  Prepare  ^  the  recipe, 
reserving  2  tablespoons  of  flour  for  rolling.  Use  the  proportion  of  flour  found 
best  under  A.  Mix  80  strokes  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  remove  approximately 
Yz  of  the  dough  (about  280  grams).  Follow  directions  under  El. 

2.  Mix  the  remaining  dough  from  Fl  a  total  of  100  strokes.  Follow  direc- 
tions under  El. 


PASTRY  579 

G.  To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  the  fat  absorption  of 
increasing  the  egg  in  the  recipe. 

Increase  the  eggs  in  the  recipe  to  3.  Repeat  directions  for  F. 

H.  To  determine  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  .fat  absorption  of  adding 
the  flour  and  milk  in  portions. 

Prepare  %  of  the  recipe.  Use  the  proportion  of  flour  found  best  under  A 
and  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  for  mixing  under  B.  Follow  directions 
for  cooking  used  for  B.  Compare  with  doughnuts  from  B.  Add  approximately 
Yi  of  the  flour  and  Yz  of  the  milk  to  the  egg-sugar  mixture.  Stir  approxi- 
mately Yi  of  the  total  number  of  strokes  to  be  used  for  mixing.  Add  the 
second  Y2>  oi  the  milk  and  flour,  stirring  Y  oi  the  total  number  of  strokes. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  milk  and  stir  the  number  of  strokes 
needed  to  make  the  total  desired. 

If  the  flour  and  milk  are  to  be  stirred  a  total  of  80  strokes,  the  first  y^  may 
be  stirred  25  strokes,  the  second  Ys  25  strokes,  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour 
30  strokes  to  make  a  total  of  80  strokes. 

What  is  the  effect  of  increased  mixing  of  the  dough  upon  fat  absorption 
in  doughnuts?  Does  the  dough  become  more  or  less  sticky  with  longer  mix- 
ing? Which  amount  of  mixing  gives  the  best  flavor  and  the  best  texture?  The 
least  fat  absorption?  What  is  the  effect  of  length  of  time  of  cooking  upon  fat 
absorption  of  doughnuts?  The  effect  of  temperature  of  cooking?  Compare  the 
dough  that  has  stood  with  the  dough  that  did  not  stand,  in  respect  to  the  ease 
of  rolling  and  the  consistency.  Does  chilling  increase  the  ease  of  rolling?  What 
is  the  effect  upon  the  texture  and  the  fat  absorption  of  standing  before  cooking? 

What  is  the  effect  of  increasing  the  sugar  in  the  recipe  upon  fat  absorp- 
tion? Upon  texture?  Does  increase  of  sugar  in  the  recipe  require  longer  mixing 
of  the  dough?  Is  there  any  relation  between  the  texture  of  the  doughnuts  with 
increased  sugar  and  the  texture  of  cakes  when  the  proportion  of  sugar  is 
increased?  What  is  the  effect  of  increasing  the  proportion  of  egg  upon  the  tex- 
ture of  the  doughnuts?  Upon  fat  absorption?  Of  increasing  the  fat?  Adding 
the  flour  in  portions  instead  of  all  at  once?  Which  doughnuts  have  the  best 
texture?  The  best  flavor? 

Write  a  summary  of  the  factors  that  affect  the  fat  absorption  in  frying 
doughnuts.  Compare  your  results  with  those  published  in  the  literature,  and 
with  previous  classes. 

Suggestions  for  additional  experiments  with  doughnuts. 

1.  Vary  the  method  of  mixing. 

2.  Vary  the  kind  of  fat  used  and  its  temperature  when  added  to  the  dough- 
nuts. 

3.  Determine  the  amount  of  mixing  that  is  desirable  with  each  type  of  baking 
powder. 

4.  Turn  the  doughnuts  several  times  during  cooking. 

Pastry 
Experiment  95. 

To  determine  the  factors  that  influence  the  quality  of  pastry. 
Recipe : 

Flour,  all-purpose  1  cup  112  grams 

Fat  yi  cup  66  grams 

Salt  y2  teaspoon  2  grams- 
Water 


580  FATS  AND  OILS 

Directions  for  ?nixing: 

The  flour  may  be  either  a  hard-  or  soft-wheat  all-purpose  one.  If  a  soft- 
wheat  flour  is  used,  it  is  probably  preferable  to  reduce  the  proportion  of  fat 
to  34  cup   (50  grams).     • 

Place  the  weighed  flour  and  the  salt  in  a  bowl,  add  the  fat,  and  cut  into 
the  flour  with  a  fat  cutter.  The  fat  may  be  worked  into  the  flour  by  rubbing 
between  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  The  fat  should  be  mixed  with  the  flour  until 
the  mixture  resembles  coarse  corn  meal.  The  number  of  strokes  required  to 
cut  the  fat  into  the  flour  will  vary,  the  hard,  cold  fats  requiring  far  more 
strokes  than  the  softened  fats  or  the  oil.  A  record  may  be  kept  of  the  number 
of  strokes  required  for  comparison  of  ease  of  mixing.  In  mixing  the  fat  with 
the  finger  tips,  work  quickly  so  as  not  to  melt  the  fat.  Compare  your  fat  and 
flour  mixture  with  your  neighbors'  to  see  if  they  are  about  the  same  consistency. 
Add  the  water  in  such  a  manner  that  it  is  distributed  rather  evenly  over  the 
flour  mixture.  Cut  the  water  into  the  fat  and  flour,  or  stir  with  a  two-tined 
fork. 

The  pastry  rolls  better  if  allowed  to  stand  about  5  minutes  after  mixing. 
Then  work  into  a  ball,  using  8  motions  of  the  hand  to  get  the  material  to- 
gether. In  rolling  the  pastry  some  can  be  rolled  without  adding  flour  to  the 
board,  but  do  not  use  more  than  1  teaspoon  of  flour  for  each  pastry.  The 
pastry  may  be  rolled  between  boards  y%  to  3/16  inch  in  thickness,  which  are 
tacked  to  the  bread  board.  Strips  of  wax  paper  just  wide  enough  to  fit  between 
the  cleats  may  be  used  for  rolling  and  handling  the  pastry.  One  piece  of  paper 
is  placed  between  the  cleats.  The  dough  to  be  rolled  is  placed  on  this  paper  and 
a  second  sheet  of  paper  is  placed  over  the  dough.  After  rolling  the  top  paper 
is  removed.  The  dough  is  lifted  on  the  lower  sheet  of  paper  and  is  placed  on 
the  baking  sheet  or  tin  by  inverting  the  paper,  pressing  lightly,  and  then 
removing  the  paper.  If  the  dough  is  rolled  in  long  strips,  it  should  be  shaped 
into  a  long  strip  before  rolling.  For  the  pastries  in  which  the  proportion  of 
ingredients  is  changed  until  they  will  not  roll  easily,  the  pastry  can  be  partially 
rolled,  then  placed  in  the  pan  and  patted  quickly  to  the  same  thickness  as  the 
rolled  pastry.  If  the  pastries  are  not  the  same  thickness  they  bake  differently 
and  require  different  lengths  of  time  for  baking. 

Bake  in  pans  of  the  same  size,  shape,  and  material.  Bake  at  220°  to  225°C. 
(425°  to  435°F.),  until  a  light  golden  brown. 

A.  To  determine  the  proportion  of  water  to  give  a  desirable  pastry  with  the 
brand  of  flour  used. 

1.  Use  24  grams  or  cc.  of  water  for  the  full  recipe.  Mix  40  strokes  with  a 
two-  or  three-tined  fork. 

2.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  30  grams  or  cc.  of  water  for  the  full  recipe. 
3..  Repeat  Al,  but  use  36  grams  or  cc.  of  water  for  the  full  recipe. 
4.  Repeat  Al,  but  use  42  grams  or  cc.  of  water  for  the  full  recipe. 

B.  To  determine  the  extent  of  mixing  required  to  give  a  desirable  pastry. 

1.  Prepare  the  full  recipe,  using  lard  or  other  fat.  Cut  the  fat  into  the  flour 
as  outlined  in  the  directions.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best  under  A 
and  mix  20  strokes  with  a  two-  or  three-tined  fork.  Remove  approximately 
j4  of  the  dough  (about  44  grams).  Roll  and  bake. 

2.  Mix  the  remainder  of  the  dough  from  Bl,  a  total  of  30  strokes.  Remove 
about  44  grams  of  the  dough  and  bake. 


PASTRY 


581 


3.  Mix  the  remainder  of  the  dough  from  B2,  a  total  of  40  strokes.  Remove 
about  44  grams  of  the  dough  and  bake. 

4.  Mix  the  remainder  of  the  dough  from  B3,  a  total  of  50  strokes.  Roll 
and  bake. 

C.  To  determine  the   effect  on  shortness  of   the  pastry  of  using  different 
kinds  of  fat. 

1.  Use  an  all-purpose  flour  and  butter.  Repeat  directions  under  B.  Use  the 
proportion  of  water  found  best  under  A. 

2.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  a  hydrogenated  cottonseed  oil. 

3.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  lard. 

4.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  oil. 

5.  Repeat  CI,  but  use  a  hydrogenated  lard. 

The  following  headings  are  suggested  for  pastry  records. 


Number  of  strokes 

Appearance 

Flakiness 

Tenderness 

For  cutting 
fat 

For  mixing 
water 

Flavor 

D.  To  determine  the  effect  of  type  of  flour. 

If  a  hard-wheat  flour  has  been  used,  substitute  a  soft-wheat  flour  or  vice 
versa.  Repeat  B  using  any  fat  desired. 

What  is  the  effect  of  increased  mixing  upon  the  tenderness  of  pastry?  Upon 
Its  flakiness?  Which  amount  of  mixing  results  in  the  best  pastry?  What  is  the 
effect  of  substituting  soft-wheat  for  hard-wheat  flour?  Can  the  fat  be  reduced 
when  pastry  flour  is  used?  Can  the  pastry-flour  pastries  be  mixed  longer  than 
bread-flour  ones?  Which  pastries  roll  easiest?  Which  are  difficult  to  handle? 
Which  fat  gives  the  shortest  pastry?  Which  the  toughest?  Which  fat  pro- 
duces the  most  flaky  pastry?  Which  the  least  flaky? 

E.  To  determine  the  effect  of  varying  the  proportion  of  ingredients. 

1.  Increase  the  fat  to  100  grams  or  J^  cup  and  the  water  to  6  grams  more 
for  the  full  recipe  than  that  found  best  under  A.  Use  bread  flour  and  butter. 
Mix  the  water  with  the  fat  and  flour  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best 
under  B. 

2.  Repeat  El,  but  use  hydrogenated  cottonseed  oil. 

3.  Repeat  El,  but  use  lard. 

4.  Repeat  El,  but  use  oil. 

5.  Repeat  El,  but  use  hydrogenated  lard. 

F.  Decrease  the  fat  in  the  full  recipe  to  50  grams  or  54  cup.  Use  all-purpose 
flour  and  any  fat  desired.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best  under  A. 
Mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  B. 


Experiment  96. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  the  temperature  of  the  ingredients  when  mixed 
upon  the  texture  and  tenderness  of  pastry. 


582  FATS  AND  OILS 

1.  Use  all-purpose  flour  and  lard.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best 
under  95A,  and  mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  95B.  Use  ice 
water  and  chilled  fat. 

2.  Prepare  twice  the  quantity  used  in  the  other  experiments.  Repeat  1,  but 
have  the  water  boiling.  Add  the  fat  and  stir  until  the  fat  is  melted.  Then  add 
the  flour  and  salt  and  mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  95B. 
Divide  in  two  portions.  Roll  and  bake  one  part.  Use  the  other  portion  for  3. 

3.  Chill  the  dough  remaining  from  2  before  rolling. 

4.  Repeat  1,  but  melt  the  fat  before  cutting  into  the  flour. 

Which  gives  the  flakiest  pastry?  Is  the  pastry  made  with  hot  water  difficult 
to  roll  unless  chilled?  What  is  the  effect  of  melting  the  fat  upon  the  texture 
of  the  pastry? 

Experiment  97. 

To  determine  the  effect  of  mixing  by  different  methods  and  continued  roll- 
ing upon  pastry. 

1.  Repeat  Experiment  96,1,  but  prepare  twice  the  quantity  used  in  the  other 
experiments.  Roll  and  bake  half  the  dough.  Use  the  other  portion  for  2. 

2.  Reroll  the  dough  remaining  from  97,1,  four  or  five  times  and  bake.  Com- 
pare with  97,1,  for  flakiness  and  tenderness. 

3.  Use  all-purpose  flour  and  lard.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best 
under  95A.  Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  mixing  bowl  together.  Then  cut  with 
knives  until  the  dough  is  the  consistency  to  roll.  Compare  with  other  methods 
of  mixing. 

4.  Use  all-purpose  flour  and  lard.  Mix  the  fat  very  thoroughly  with  the 
flour.  Use  the  proportion  of  water  found  best  under  95A.  Add  the  water  and 
mix  with  the  number  of  strokes  found  best  under  95B. 

5.  Repeat  97,4,  but  cut  the  fat  into  the  flour  with  only  a  few^  strokes,  leaving 
the  fat  and  flour  coarsely  flaked. 

6.  Decrease  the  fat  in  the  full  recipe  to  40  grams.  Use  all-purpose  flour  and 
the  proportion  of  water  found  best  under  95A.  Mix  with  the  number  of 
strokes  found  best  under  95B.  After  rolling  the  dough  add  5  grams  of  fat  in 
small  flakes  over  half  the  rolled  dough.  Fold  the  dough  and  reroll.  Add  5 
more  grams  of  fat  and  reroll.  Bake. 

What  is  the  effect  of  rolling  the  dough  several  times  upon  the  tenderness 
of  the  pastry?  Its  flakiness?  Can  a  good  pastry  be  obtained  by  combining  all 
the  ingredients  at  one  time?  Does  adding  a  portion  of  the  fat  while  rolling 
increase  the  flakiness  of  the  pastry?  Its  tenderness? 

Suggested  Additional  Experiments 

1.  Use  other  fats  in  addition  to  the  ones  given  in  the  outline. 

2.  Reduce  the  proportion  of  the  fats  and  the  oil,  and  find  the  amount  equiva- 
lent to  50  grams  of  butter,  as  far  as  can  be  determined  from  breaking  the 
pastries  with  the  fingers. 

3.  Make  a  temporary  emulsion  of  the  oil  and  water.  Then  add  quickly  to 
the  flour  and  mix. 

4.  Spiced  pastry.  Add  ^^  teaspoon  of  a  spice  mixture  to  the  pastry  recipe, 
Experiment  95.  It  may  be  any  mixture  of  spices  desired  or  the  following: 
Yz  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1/6  teaspoon  nutmeg,  54  teaspoon  allspice,  and  ]/\  tea- 
spoon cloves. 


SUGGESTED  ADDITIONAL  EXPERIMENTS 


583 


Experiment  98. 

To  determine  the  best  method  of  preventing  juicy  fruit  soaking  the  crust  in 
pies. 

Make  enough  pastry  at  one  time  for  all  the  tests.  It  can  be  made  on  a 
KitchenAid  or  mixed  by  hand.  It  is  preferable,  if  possible,  to  roll  all  the 
pastry  the  same  thickness.  A  large  rolling  pin  may  be  made  or  a  rod  used  to 
roll  the  pastry  the  same  thickness.  The  cleats  between  which  the  dough  is 
rolled  should  be  placed  wide  enough  apart  on  the  bread  board  so  that  when 
rolled  the  dough  is  large  enough  for  the  pans  used.  See  directions  under 
Experiment  95.  Bake  at  220°  to  225°C.  (425°  to  435°F.).  The  temperature 
may  be  lowered  if  necessary  for  the  last  part  of  the  baking.  One-half  table- 
spoon of  butter  for  each  cup  of  fruit  improves  the  flavor. 

Use  an  upper  and  a  lower  crust  in  baking  the  pies.  Use  a  fruit  that  is 
juicy.  Sweeten  the  fruit  in  one  large  container.  Then  divide  into  equal  portions 
for  each  pie. 

1.  Use  the  sweetened  juicy  fruit  for  a  control. 

2.  Brush  the  top  of  the  under  crust  with  melted  butter.  Then  add  the 
sweetened  fruit. 

3.  Brush  the  top  of  the  under  crust  with  egg  white.  Add  the  sweetened 
fruit. 

4.  Partially  bake  the  under  crust.  Then  add  the  fruit  and  upper  crust.  Bake. 

5.  Drain  the  juice  ofiE  the  fruit  and  thicken  with  cornstarch.  Use  1  table- 
spoon of  cornstarch  for  every  cup  of  juice  from  very  sour  fruit  with  thin 
juice;  but  use  a  smaller  proportion  of  cornstarch  for  fruit  juice  that  is  not 
very  tart.  Boil  the  juice  and  cornstarch.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
fruit.  Add  to  the  rolled  dough  while  the  fruit  is  still  warm.  Bake.  Is  the 
baking  time  of  the  pie  shortened  when  the  fruit  Is  added  to  the  dough  while 
warm? 

6.  Sprinkle  the  top  of  the  lower  crust  with  flour.  Add  fruit. 

7.  Mix  the  cornstarch  or  flour  with  the  sugar.  Add  to  the  fruit.  Use  the 
same  proportion  of  cornstarch  as  given  under  5. 

8.  Repeat  1,  but  bake  the  pie  at  a  much  lower  temperature  than  that  used 
for  the  other  pies. 

If  desired,  the  series  may  be  repeated  using  fresh  fruit. 

Keep  portions  of  each  pie  until  the  next  day  to  compare  the  amount  of 
soaking  on  standing.  The  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  butter  and  salt  to 
the  fruit  in  each  pie  will  improve  the  flavor. 


Appearance 


Sogginess  of  crust 


At  first 


On  standing 


Flavor 


Results  and  conclusions. 


INDEX 


Absorption  at  interfaces,  14 
Acid,  cooking  of  meat,  223 
Acidity,  juices  for  jelly,  162 
Acids, 

acetic,    107 

in  jelly,  161 
citric,  107,  108,  109,  162,  166 
coagulation  of  proteins,  18 
combination  with, 
gelatin,  179,  181 
metals  of  utensils,  110 
proteins,   12 
vegetables,   107-108 
curdling  of  milk,  12,  304 
dispersion  by,  5 
fruit,    108-109 
fruit  juice,  161 
jelly,  effect  of,  160-163 
malic,  107,  108,  109,  169 
oxalic,  107,  108,  109,  169 
plant,  106-110 
non-volatile,  107 
volatile,  107 
starch  and,  411 
tartaric,    107-109,    156,    161,    162, 

169,  185 
vegetable,  107 
Acrolein,  547 
Adhesion,  18 
Adipose  tissue,  200 
Adsorption,  16 
Albumin, 

egg,  330,  333,  334 
milk,  298 
Alkalies, 

adding  to  milk,  307-308 
combination  with, 
gelatin,   181,   184 
proteins,   11 

vegetables,  112,  116,  129 
dispersion  by,  5 
jelly,  effect  of,  156 
proteins,  coagulation,  18 
Amino  acids, 

and  dextrose,  309 
Ammonia,  baking,  448 
Amorphous  sugar,  39,  54 
Amphoteric  colloids,  11 


L64, 


Angel  cake,  see  Cake,  angel 
Anthocyanins,  116-121 

and  metals,   120 

reactions  of,  116 
Apples,  cooking  of,  132 
Aromatic  compounds,  129 

Bacon,  212,  229,  264 
Bacteria, 
cheese,  312 
meat,  213,  217 
milk,  304 
pickles,  130-131 
Baking  powder,  450-456,  460 
brown  spots  from,  455 
cakes,  481,  504-506,  515 

optimum  amount,   504-506 

temperature  for  baking,  474 
carbon  dioxide  from,  450 

lost  from  batters,  453 
fineness  of  division,  455 
ideal,  450 
muffins,  470-471 
phosphate,  451 

reactions,  451 
sulfate-phosphate,  452 

reactions,  452 
tartrate,  451 

reactions,  451 
temperature  for  reaction,  452 
types  of,  450-456 
weight,  1  t.,  505 
Batters  and  doughs, 
electrolytes  in,  457 
experiments  for,  519-541 
ingredients  of,  459-461 
mechanical  treatment,  457 
methods  of  mixing,  457 
mixing, 

effect  on  flavor,  459 

effect  on  texture,  456 

optimum  amount,  458 
structure  of,  456-460 

affected  by, 

electrolytes,  457 
extent  of,  459 
mechanical  treatment,  457 
method  of  mixing,  458 


585 


586 


INDEX 


Batters   and   doughs — {Continued) 
structure    of — {Continued) 
affected    by — {Continued) 
proportion  ingredients,  457 
temperature  of,  458 
temperature  ingredients,  458 
Beans,  dried,  135-141 
Lima,   141 

mineral  content  of  water,  136,  141 
navy,  136-140 
pectic  substances  of,  138 
pinto,  141 
soda  and,  139,  141 
soy,   141 
Beaten  biscuits,  472 
Beef, 

classes,  194 

connective  tissue,  202,  204,  205 
cooking  of,  254-257 
dried,  212 
grades,  196 

less  tender  cuts,  260-261 
ribs,  226,  254-257 
Beet  sugar  in  jelly,  169 
Beets,  116,  120 
Biscuit,  471-473 
beaten,  472 

experiments  for,  528-530 
method  of  mixing,  472 
Bisque,   96 
Boiling  point, 
elevation  of,  47 
ionized  substances  upon,  48 
lowering  of,  47 
solutions,  48 
sucrose,  49 
Boundary  phenomena,  13 
Bran,   398 
Bread, 

baking    of, 

temperature,  435 
time,  435 
experiments  for,  443-446 
fermentation,  425,  431-436 
action  of  enzymes,  425,  431 
dispersion  of  gluten,  432 
imbibition  during,  432 
length  of,  433 
reaction,  432 

treatment  during,  429-436 
flavor  due  to,  435 
improvers,  432 

manipulation  of  dough,  429-430 
mechanical  treatment,  429-430 
extensibility,  429 


Bread — {Continued) 

methods  of  mixing,  428-444 
sponge  process,  428 
straight-dough  process,  428 

microorganisms  in,  431 

mixing  of  ingredients,  425-429,  444 

pans  for,  434 
greasing  of,  430 

preparation  of  materials,  425,  444 

proportion  of  ingredients,  425-428 

ropy,  438 

soft-wheat  flour  in,  435 
amount  of  ingredients,  436 

staling  of,  436-438 

temperature  for  enzymes,  424 
Brittles,   68 
Broilers,  245,  246 
Bromelin,  124,  308 
Butter,  295-297,  542,  543,  544,  570,  571 

churning  of,  297 

creaming  of,  296 

fatty  acids  of,  295 

flavor  of,  295 

in  cake,  479-484 

in  pastry,  570,  571 
Butter  fat, 

size  of  globules,  297 

test  for,  297 
Butterscotch  filling  for  pies,  337 

Cabbage, 

cooking  time,   127 
experiments  for,   147 
red,  119 

sulfur  compounds,  128 
Cake,  chocolate,   511-516 
baking,  477 

experiments  for,  536-538 
reddish  color  of,  515 
Cake,  plain,  479-510 

experiments  for,  531-535 
extent  of  mixing,  498 

appearance,  498 

crust,  498 

texture,  499 

volume,  498 
formulas  for,   507 
methods  of  mixing, 

cake  mixer,  485 

conventional,  482 

conventional-sponge,  488 

emulsion,  488 

muffin,  485 
optimum  mixing  for,  502 
staling  of,  503 


INDEX 


587 


Cake — {Continued) 
tunnels  of,  499 
varying  ingredients  in, 
baking  powder,  504 
egg,  506 
fat,  507 
sugar,  506 
Cake,  sponge,  372 

experiments  for,  390 
Cake,  white,  516 

experiments  for,  538 
Cake  formulas,  balancing  of,  507 
Cakes, 

baking,  474-479 
cooling  of,  478 
creaming  fat  for,  479-485 
emulsions  in,  496 
ingredients  used  in, 
baking  powder,  481 
eggs,  481 
fat,  479 
flour,  479 
sugar,  481 
temperature  of  baking,  474-478 
of  ingredients,  492 
of  removing  from  pan,  478 
Calcium  chloride, 

freezing  solutions,  84 
Calcium  phosphate, 

added  to  flour,  401 
Calcium  salts, 
beans,   136 
flour,  400-401 
gelatin,  188 
jelly,  163 
milk,  294,  295 
pickles,  131 
tea,  123 
vegetables,   104 
Candy, 

brittles,   68 
caramels,  67 
cold  water  test,  54 
fondant,  56 
fudge,  66 

making  and  crystallization,  54 
stages  cookery  for,  55 
taffy,  68 
Cane  sugar  in  jelly,  169 
Canned  fruits, 

violet  colorations  in,  119 
Capillary  chemistry,  13 
Capillary-active  substances,  13 
Capillary-inactive,  13 


Capons,  245,  246 
Caramels,  67 

experiments  for,  76 

stages  cookery  for,   55 
Carbohydrates, 

classification,  31 

structure,  32-33 
Carbon  dioxide, 

from  baking  powder,  450 

lost  from  batters,  453 
Carotene,  114,  294,  397 
Carotinoid  pigments,  114 

flour,  397 

milk,  294 
Casein,  12,  297 

coagulation  of, 
acid,  304 
alcohol,  301 
heat,  305 

mechanism  of,  301 
rennin,  301 

isoelectric  point,  297 
Cellulose,  33,  129-132 

acid  upon,  129 

alkali,  129 

calcium,  130 
Cerelose,  44 
Cheese,  310-315 

Cheddar  in  cans,  313 

classification,  310,  311 

composition,  311 

definition,  310 

experiments  for,  320-322 

in  cooked  products,   314 

loaf,  314 

making  of,  312 

processed,  313 

souffle,  315 

spreads,  314 
Chlorophyll,   110-114 

composition  of.  111 

heat  upon,  112 

magnesium  of,  114 

reactions  of,  112 

solubility,   110 
Chocolate,  512-515 

acidity  of,  514 

in  cake,  514 

manufacture  of,  512 
Chocolate  creams, 

hydrolysis  in,  37 
Chops,  228 
Citric  acid,  see  acids 


588 


INDEX 


Coagulation  of  proteins, 

see  proteins 
Cocoa,  513-514 

Dutch  process,   513 

in  fudge,  66 
Cohesion,  18 
Collagen, 

hydrolysis   of,    179 

in   meat,  203 
Colloid  chemistry, 

Bancroft's  definition  of,  2 

relation  to  cookery,  1 
Colloidal   particles, 

charge  on,   9 
Colloidal  solutions, 

characteristics  of,  3 

size  of  particles,  2 
Colloids, 

amphoteric,  11 

classification,  6 

denaturing,  11 

hydrophilic,  8 

hydrophobic,   8 

irreversible,   6 

peptization  of,  21 

properties  of,  6 

protective,   12 

reversible,  6 
Commercial  pectin,  159 
Connective   tissue, 

chicken,  204 

composition  of,  202 

of  beef,  204,  205 

pork,  205 

tough  cuts,  205 

white,   202,   203 

yellow,  202,  203 
Cookies, 

experiments  for,   540-541 
Copper, 

and   egg   albumin,   350 

in  gelatin,   188 

in  milk,  294 
Corn, 

loss  of  sugar  from,   128 
Corn,  canned, 

ferrous  sulfide,   128 
Corn  oil,   570 
Corn  sirup, 

composition,  55 

in  caramels,  67 

soda  to  neutralize,  449 

source  of,  34 

with  sucrose  sirups,  55-56 


Cornstarch, 

added  to  flour,  479 

gelatinization  temperature,  410 

pastes,  409 
Cottage  cheese,  311,  319 
Cottonseed  oil,  548 

pastry,   570,   571 
Cover  batters,  461 

experiments  for,  521 
Crab-apples,  153,  174 
Cranberries,  157,  165 
Cream,   296 

whipping  of,  298-299 
Creaming  fats,  479-485 
Cream  puffs,  461-463 

as  emulsions,  286 

experiments  for,  521-523 
Cream  of  tartar, 

in   angel  cake,   348,   372 

with  soda,  449 
Cryohydric  point,  87 
Crystallization,  49-54 

agitation  in,  51 

and  candy  making,  54 

effect  of  impurities,  51 

formation  of  nuclei,  50 

rate  of,  50 

seeding,  50 

sugar  manufacture,   52 
Cucumber  pickles,  130-131 
Currant  juices,  167 
Custards,  337,  343-346 

absorption  of  heat,  344 

baked,  343 

coagulation  of,  333-337,  343-347 

distilled  water,   334 

experiments   for,   378-381 

optimum  temperature  for,  345 

pie,  345 

salts  upon,  334-335 

soft,   343 

Denaturation, 

changes  during,  18-19 

heat,  19 

interfacial,   19 
Dextrin,  33,  55,  56,  66 
Dextrose, 

alkalies  upon,  37 

in  fondant,  64 

in  jelly,  169 

melting  point,   39 

solubility,  44 

sources,   34 


INDEX 


589 


Dextrose —  ( Continued) 
structure,  31-33 
sweetness,  34-35 
Disaccharids,  31-33 
Dispersion  of  substances,  4,  5,  6 
Dough,  417-424 

added  substances,  423-424 
baking  powder  in,  424 
eggs  in,  423 
enzyme  action,  431 
hydration  capacity,  419 
quality,  418 
structure,  422      • 
sugar  in,  424 
temperature   for,  423 
Doughnuts, 

experiments  for,  576-579 
factors  affecting  fat   absorption, 
amount  of  eggs,  561 
fat,  561 
flour,  559 
sugar,  561 
cooking  temperature,  559 
extent  of  mixing,  558 
kind  of  flour,  559 
letting  dough  stand,  560 
smoking  temperature  of  fat,  549 
surface  area,  557 
temperature, 

cooking  fat,  560 
ingredients,  557 
fat  absorption,  556 

Edible  meat, 

percentage  of,  242-244,  245 
Egg  albumin, 

combination  with  metals,  350 
Egg  beaters,  349 
rotary,  350 
whisk,  350 
Egg  proteins, 
albumin,  330 
coagulation, 

factors  affecting,  333-337 
acids,  336 
alkalies,  336 

concentration  of  proteins,  334 
pH,  335 
salts,  334 
sugar,  337 
temperature,  333 
time,  333 
denaturation,  332 
globulin,  330 
isoelectric   point,   331 


Egg  proteins — (Continued) 
ovovitellin,  330 
peptization,  332 
properties  of,  330  "~^ 

Eggs, 

color  of  shell,  325 
composition,  325 
cooked  in  shell,  340-341 
deterioration, 

changes  in,  330 

factors  causing,  329-330 
alkaline  hydrolysis,  329 
chemical,  330 
enzymes,   329  • 
•     storage,  328 
dried,  328 

ferrous  sulfide,  342-343 
frozen,   328 
hydrogen  sulfide,  342 
in  angel  cakes,  355-372 
in  cakes,  481 
in  custards,  343-346 
in  omelets,  352-355 
oil-dipping,  329 
pigments,  325 
poached,  341 
preservation,  328 
quality, 

factors  affecting,  327 

tests  for,   326-327 
reactions,  326 
salts,  334-335 
uses  of,  330 
Egg  white, 

coagulation  of, 

by  beating,   350 

temperature  of,  333 
deterioration,  329 
foaming  of,  346-349 

acids  and  stability,  348 

season,  349 

temperature,  348 
in  fondant,  64 
pH,  326 
whipping  of,  346-351 

salt,  effect  on,  347 

stage  of  stiffness,  346 

thick,  350,  356 

thin,  350,  356 
Egg  yolk, 

change  in  pH,  326 
coagulation  of,  333 
color  of,  325 
deterioration,  329-330 
lecithio-protein,  278 


590 


INDEX 


Egg  yolk — (Continued) 
in  mayonnaise,  278,  284 
standing  up  quality,  327 
Elastin,  203 
Electrolytes, 

effect  on  colloids,  9,  10 
Emulsification,  theories,  267-269 
Emulsifiers,  266 

efficiency  of,  272 
Emulsifying  properties, 
mustard,  276-277 
oils,  277 
Emulsions, 
agitation,  274 
classes,  267 

factors  in  formation,  279 
fats  in,  271-272 
foams  and,  275 
French,  273 
illustrations,  282-283 
in  cakes,  287 
in  cream  puffs,  286 
making  of,  274 
mayonnaise,   275-286 
methods  of  mixing,  279 
oils  in,  277 
peptization  in,  275 
stabilized  by, 
colloids,  273 
electric  charge,  273 
powders,   273 
types  of,  269 

found  in  foods,  286 
means  of  determining,  270 
reversal  of,  270 
whipped  cream,  298-300 
Emulsoids,   6 
Energy,   25-26 

English  walnuts,  tannins,  123 
Enzymes, 
amylolytic, 

flour,   397,  431 
meat,  217 
milk,   294 
coagulation  by,  301-304 
discoloration  in  food,   125 
dispersion  by,  6,  217,  294 
invertase,   37 
lipolytic, 
flour,   399 
meat,  217 
milk,  294 
oxidizing,   124 


Enzymes —  ( Continued) 
proteolytic, 

bromelin,  124,  308 

flour,  398,  412,  413,  418,  431,  432 

meat,  209,  212,  217 

milk,  294 

papain,   124,  222 
sugar  hydrolysis  by,  37 
Experiments, 
bacon,   264 

batters    and    doughs,    519-541 
biscuits,    528-530 
bread,  443-446 
cabbage,   147 
cake, 

angel,  386-389 

chocolate,  536-638 

plain,    531-535 

sponge,  390 

white,  538 
caramels,  76 
cheese,   319-332 
cooked    salad    dressing,    382 
cookies,    540 
cover  batters,  521 
cream  puffs,  521-523 
custards,   378-381 
doughnuts,   576-579 
eggs,  376-390 
emulsions,  289-292 
fats  and  oils,  574-583 
fondant,  77-79 
freezing,   98-102 
fruits,   150-151 
fudge,   79-81 
gelatin,   188-193 
gingerbread,  539 
griddle  cakes,   525 
Hollandaise   sauce,    383 
ice  cream,  98-100 
ices,  101 
jelly,  174-177 
meat,  253-265 

beef  roasts,  254-257 

broth,  261 

ground  beef,   261 

in  water,  260 

lamb  roasts,  257,  258 

less  tender  cuts,  beef,  260 

pork   roasts,  257-258 

steaks,  258 

Swiss  steaks,  260 

veal  roasts,  257,  258 
meringues,  385-386 


INDEX 


591 


Experiments —  ( Continued) 
milk,  317-319 
muffins,  526-528 
omelets,  383-385 
pastry,  579-583 
popovers,  519-520 
sherbets,    101 
strawberries,  150 
sugar,  70-82 

solubility,  70 
taffy,   75 
timbales,  520 
vegetables,   144-149 
waffles,   523 

Fasciculi,  198,  199 
Fat, 

and  toughness  of  meat,  208 
in  cakes,  479-481,  492-498,   507 

chocolate,    515-516 
in  doughs,  423 
in  emulsions,  271-272 
in  meat,  200-202 
in  pastry,  567-572 
Fats, 

acid  value,  545 

amount  absorbed  by  foods,  555 

changes  during  cooking,   554 

congealing  point,  543 

fatty  acids  of,  546 

free  fatty  acids,  545,  548 

glycerides,   543 

unsaturated,   543 
glycerol,  547 
hydrogenation  of,  545 
iodine   number,    543 
melting  point,   544 
orientation  of,   564 
properties  of,  542 
rancidity, 

antioxidants,  551,  552 

cereals  and,  551 

effect  air,  light,  and  heat,   553 

green  light,  553 

inert  gases  and,  552 

metals  and,  551 

prooxidants,  551 
rancid  products, 

volatilization  of,  553 
refractive  index,  545 
shortening  power  of,  565 
smoking  point,  548 
specific  gravity,   542 
texture  and  consistency,  545 


Fatty  acids, 

area  covered  by, 
saturated,  563 
unsaturated,  563  -- 

free,  548 
in  flour,  399-400 
in  milk,  295 
Fermentation    of    bread,    425,    431-436, 

445 
Ferrous  sulfide, 
canned  corn,  128 
cheese,  313 
eggs,  342 
omelets,  353 
peas,  128 
Fish,  206 

Flavones,  114-116,  372,  397 
Flavonols,  114 
Flavor,  128 
Flours, 

aging  of,  412 
ash  content,  400-402 
bleaching  of,  396 
cellulose,  398 
clear,  395 
color  of,  397 
composition  of,  396 
definition  of,  394 
effect  overgrinding,  411 
enzymes  of,  397,  413,  431 
fat  of,  399-400 
fatty  acids  of,  399 

free,  399,  413 
gluten,  415-424 
hydration  capacity,  419 
hygroscopic  property,  399 
lecithio-protein  of,  415 
milling  process,  391-394 
patent,  395 
pigments  of,  397 
carotene,  397 
flavones,  397 
proteins, 
gliadin,  415 
gluten,  415 
glutenin,  415 

salts  and  extraction  of,  413 
status  of,  414 
salts  of,  400-402 
starch,  402-411 
straight,  395 
sugars,  402 


592 


INDEX 


Flours — {Continued) 
types  of, 

hard-wheat,  395 
all-purpose,  395 
bread,  395 
soft-wheat, 

ail-purpose,  395 
cake,   396 
cracker,  396 
pastry,  396 
rye,  396 
Fluidity,  23 
Foams, 

cream,  whipped,  298-300 
egg  white,   346-351 
formation  of,  14 
gelatin,  187 
Fondant,  56-66 

addition  of  dextrose,  64 
cream  of  tartar,  65 
egg  white,  64 
levulose,  64 
color,  65 

concentration  of  sirup,  57 
cooking  of,  56 
experiments   for,    77-79 
growth  of  crystals  in,  64 
honey,  66 
illustrations,  58-63 
invert  sugar  in,  65 
ripening   of,    66 
size  of  crystals  in,  65 
Formulas, 

for  angel  cakes,  360 
cakes,  512 
Free  surface  energy,  14 
Freezers,  ice  cream,  86 

packing  of,  88 
Freezing, 

cryohydric  point,   87 
experiments  for,   98-102 
mixtures,  85 
point,   83 

effect  ionized  substances,  84 
lowering  of,  84 
Frozen  meat, 

cooking  of,  224-225 
Fruits, 

acids  in,   108 
and  milk,  308 
browning  of,  124,  125 
color  changes  of,   116-119 
cooking  with  sugar,   131-133 
sugar  and  firmness  of,  131-133 
violet  colorations  in  canned,  119 


Fryers,  245,  246 
Fudge,  Se,  79 

Gelatin, 

addition  of  acids,  179,  181,  184 
alkalies,  181,  184 
cream,  187 
egg  white,   187 

agitation  of,  187 

collagen  and,  178 

experiments  for,   188-193 

foam  formation,   187 

gelation, 

concentration  for,   182 
temperature   for,    183 
time  for,  182 

hydration  of,  180 

hydrogen-ion   concentration,    184 

in  emulsions,  273 

in  ice  cream,  95 

initial  pH,  184 

isoelectric  point,   181 

manufacture  of,   178 

market  types,   179 

opacity  in,   186 

precipitated  by  tannins,   122 

properties  of,  180 

salts  and  gelation,   185 

seeding  of,   183 

solution  of,  180 

sources  of,  178 

stiffening  power,  181 

sugar  in,  185 

swelling  of,  180-181 

uses  in  foods,   178 

viscosity  and  solutions,  182 
Gels, 

definition  of,  6 

effect  of  acids,  alkalies,  7,  8 

starch,  407 

swelling  of,   7 
Gingerbread,  516 

experiments  for,  539 
Gliadin,  415 
GlobuJin, 

flour,  413 

meat,  211 
Glue,  178 
Gluten, 

coagulation  of,  heat,  416 

dough,  417-424 

effect  of  adding  substances,  423 

hydration  capacity,  419 

quality,  416-417 
Glutenin,  415 


INDEX 


593 


Gluthathione,   126 
Glycerol,  547 

heat  decomposition  of,  547 
Gooseberry  juice,  156,  165,  167,  170 
Griddle  cakes,  463 

experiments  for,  525 

Ham, 

cooked  in  milk,  307,  318 

cooking  of,  229,  263-264 

curing,  212 
Heat, 

coagulation  by,  see  proteins, 

dispersion  by,  4 
Hemoglobin,  209 

muscle,  209 
Hens,  245,  246 
Hollandaise  sauce,  383 
Homogenization,  5 

of  milk,  298 
Homologous  series,  14 
Honey,  34 

in  fondant,  66 

soda  to  neutralize,  449 
Hydrogenation,  545 
Hydrogen-ion  concentration,  26 

in  jelly,  160 
Hydrophilic  colloids,  8 

effect  electrolytes  on,  10 
Hydrophobic  colloids,  8 

effect  electrolytes  on,  9 
Hydrogen  sulfide,  126-128,  342,  353 
Hysteresis,  2 

Ice  cream, 
acidity,  90 
adding  chocolate,  91 
adding  fruit,  91 
aging  of  mix,  94 
body  and  texture,  91 
classification  of,  96 
composition  of,  89 
experiments  for,  98-100 
flavor  of,  89 
flavoring  in,  90 
freezing,  92 
gelatin  in,  95 
homogenization  for,  94 
overrun  in,  92 
pasteurization  of  mix,  94 
sandy,  90 

serum  solids  not  fat,  90 
sugar  in,  90,  95 
texture,  91 
viscosity,  94 


Ice  cream  freezers,  86 
Ice-cream  improvers,  95 
Ices,  95,  101 
Illustrations, 
angel  cakes, 
varying, 

beating  egg  white,  369 
folding  flour,  368 
folding  sugar,  364 
increasing  sugar,  371 
cakes, 

bowls  for  folding,  362 
varying, 

amount  flour  and  mixing,  510-511 
amount    sugar    and    mixing,    508- 

509 
creaming,  489 
kind  baking  powder, 
phosphate,  496 
sulfate-phosphate,  500 
tartarate,  494 
cake  photomicrographs, 

fat  creamed   with   sugar,  483,   486, 

487 
fat  distribution  in  cake  batter,  486, 

487,  490 
fat  distribution  in  cake  crumb,  490, 
491 
eggs, 

fresh  and  deteriorated,  323 
structure,  325 
structure  white,  324 
emulsions  with  egg  white  foam,  272 
jelly, 

dextrose,  170 
yield,  166,  167 
mayonnaise, 

size  fat  globules,  282-283 
meat, 

diagram,  234 

grades,  stamping  of,  195 

muscle  fibers,  199,  201,  207 

roast   beef,   pan,    and   thermometer, 

225 
skewers,  230 
muffins,  466,  467,  468,  469,  470 
starch  granules,  403 
sugar  crystals  in  divinity,  62-63 
sugar  crystals  in  fondant,  58-61 
Interfacial  tension, 
liquids/liquids,  15 
liquids/solids,  17 
Intermicellar,  3 
Inversion  of  sucrose,  36-37 
Invertase,   37 


594 


INDEX 


Iron, 

and  egg  albumin,  350 

eggs,  342 

and  flavones,  115 

loss  from  vegetables,  105 

meat,  223 

milk,  294 

tea,   123 
Isoelectric  point,  11 

egg  proteins,  331 

flour  proteins,  415 

gelatin,  181 

milk  proteins,  297 

muscle  proteins,  211 

proteins,  11 

Jelly, 

acid,  role  of,  160-163 
acidity,  reporting  of,   162 
acids  in  juices,  161 
beet  sugar  in,   169 
cane  sugar  in,  169 
concentration  pectin,   156 
cooked  fruit  for,   154 
definition  of,  172 
dextrose  in,  169 
experiments  for,   174-177 
extractions  for,  156 
fruits  used  for,  153,  156 
hydrogen-ion  concentration,  160 
inversion  of  sucrose,  168 

rate  of,  168 
levulose  in,  170 
maltose  in,  170 
mold,  171 

pectin,  role  of,  156-160 
salts,  role  of,  163-164,  171 
starch  removal  from  juice,   156 
storage  of,   171 
sugar, 

concentration  for,  165 

role  of,  164-170 

when  to  add,  164 

without,   164 

and  yield,   165 
syneresis,    170 
tartaric  acid,  removal,  156 
temperatures   sirup,   171 
test.   171 

theory  for  formation,  152 
yield,   165 

Lactalbumin,  298 
Lactoglobulin,  298 


Lactose,   33,  295,   309,   310 

caramelization  of,  310 

hydrolysis  of,  35 

solubility,  43 

sweetness,  35 
Lamb, 

cooking  of,  227 

preparation  for,  257 

grades,  196 
Lard, 

for  doughnuts,  556 

for  potato  chips,  454 

in  cake,  489,  493 

in  pastry,   567,  568,  570,  571 

rancidity,  553 

seasoning,   542 

texture,   545 
Leavening  agents, 

baking  ammonia,  448 

baking  powders,  450-456 

soda,  447 

steam,  447 
Lecithio-protein, 

egg  yolk,  278 

flour,  415 
Legumes,  dried, 

cooking  of,   135-141 

salts,  eflfect  on  cooking,   136,   139 
Lemon  juice, 

and  condensed  milk,   310 
eggs,  354 
gelatin,   184 
Leucosin,  413 
Levulose, 

acids  on,  35 

alkalies,  38 

in  fondant,  64 

in  jelly,  170 

melting  point,  39 

solubility,  45 

sources,  34 

sweetness,  35 
Liquids, 

boiling  point,  46 

interfacial  tension  of,  15 

surface  tension,   14 

Magnesium  salts, 
beans,  136 
flour,  400,  401 
milk,  294,  295 
tea,  123 
vegetables,  104 


INDEX 


595 


Maltose, 

in  jelly,  170 
hydrolysis  of,  35 
melting  point,  39 
solubility,  43 
sources,  34 
structure,  32-33 
sweetness,  35 
Margarine,  571 
Mayonnaise, 

air  film  on  oil,  276 
breaking  of,  284 
concentration  of  oil  in,  285 
definition  of,  275 
emulsifiers,  271 
emulsifying  properties, 

egg  yolk,  278 

mustard,  276 

oils,  277 
experiments  for,  289-291 
factors  in  making,  279-284 

adding  to  emulsion,  284 

agitation,   279 

ingredients  used,  281-285 

methods  of  mixing,  277-278,  279-281 

temperature,  284 
peptization  in  forming,  275 
reforming,  285 
Meat, 

adipose  tissue,  200 
binding  water,  220 
carbohydrates  of,  210 
changes, 

bacterial,  213,  217 

chemical,  218 

storage,  217-218 
classes,  194 

percentage,  196 
cold  storage,  212 
collagen,  203 
color  changes,  220 
composition,  202-207,  207-211 
connective  tissue,  199,  202-206 

kinds,  202 
cooking  losses,  240-242 

factors  affecting,  238-240 
cooking  of, 

acid  added,  223 

changes  in,  218-223 

color  changes,  220 

cured  meat,  228 

formation  gelatin,  219 

frozen  meat,  224-225 

inner  temperature  rise,  237 

less  tender  cuts,  205,  226,  260 


Meat — {Continued) 

cooking  of — {Continued) 

methods,  226-230 
constant,  231 
dry  heat,  226 
moist  heat,  226 
pressure  cooker,  230 
searing,  231 
use  of  skewers,  230 

pans  for,  229 

preparation  for,  254 

temperatures,  231-232 

use  of  skewers,  231 
curing,   212 
definition,  198 
edible  portion,  242-243 

cost  of,  242,  244 

percentage,  242,  244 
elastin,   203 
enzymes,  209,  217-218 
fasciculi,   198-199 
fat,  200-202 

size  of  cells,  202 
federal  inspection,  197-198 
freezing,  212,  224 

defrosting,  224 
grades,   196 

distribution,   196 

packers,  197 

U.  S.,   196 
grading,  194-197 

basis  for,  194 
incipient  putrefaction,  217 
inspection,  197 
juiciness  of,  219-220 
muscles,  198-211 

classes,  199 

fibers,  198,  201,  206-211 

pH,  220 

pigments,  209 

proteins,  210 

structure,   198 
pigments,  209 

ripening  on,  210 
post-mortem  changes,  211-218 
preservation  of,  212 
proteins,  210-211 
records  for,  226 
rigor  mortis,  211,  214-215 
ripened,  215-217 

rise  of  inner  temperature,  287-288 
salt  added,  225 
salts  of,  209 
searing  of,  231 
shearing  tests,  208,  221-222 


596 


INDEX 


Meat —  ( Continued) 
stage  of  cookery, 

medium,    232 

rare,  232 

well-done,  233 
steaks,  227 
storage,  212-214 

changes  in,  217 
tenderness,  208,  220-223 

increasing,  222-223 

methods  of  estimating,  220-222 
thermometers  for,  233 
time  of  cooking,  233-237 
time  per  pound,  235 
toughness,  200,  207-208 
Meringues, 

experiments  for,  385-386 
hard,  352 
soft,  351 
Metals  and 
egg,  350 

fruit  acids,  109-110 
Micelles,  3 
Milk, 

boiling,   308 
bread,  use  in,  426 
carotene,  294 
clotting  by  fruits,  308 
coagulation, 

by  acid,  304 

by  alcohol,  301 

by  heat,  305 

by  meat  cooked  in,  307 

by  rennin,  301 

by  vegetables,  307 
composition,  293 
constituents,  293-298 
cooking  meat  in,  302,  318 
cooking  vegetables  in,  307 
enzymes  of,  294 
experiments  for,   317-319 
fat,  295-297 
fatty  acids  of,  295 
fermentation  of,  304 
heating  on   acidity,   301 

endothermic,  306 
homogenization,  298 
lactose,  295 
pigments  of,  294 
proteins  of,  297-298 

isoelectric  point,  297 
reaction,  300 
rennin,  301-305 
salts  of,  294 
sour,  304,  448 


Milk — {Continued) 

sour — {Continued) 

neutralization  by  soda,  448 

sugar  reactions  with,  309-310 

uses,  293 

vitamins,  294 
Molasses,  15,  67,  75,  449 

soda  to  neutralize,  449 
Molecules, 

orientation  of,  17 
Monosaccharids,   31-33 
Mousse,  88,  96 
Muffins,  465-471 

baking  of,  471 

standing  before,  471 

baking   powder,   470 

experiments  for,   526-528 

illustrations,  466-470 

mixing,  extent  of,  465-470 

tunnels  of,  465 

varying  ingredients,  470 
Muscle, 

carbohydrates  of,  210 

classes,   199 

cross  striated,   199 
smooth,   199 

fat  in,  200-202,  210 

nitrogenous  extractives,  210 
Muscle  fibers, 

constituents  of,  208-211 

effect  exercise  on,  199,  206,  208 
maturity  on,  206,  208 

proteins  of,  210,  211 
Muscle  pigments,  209 
Muscle  proteins,  210-211 
Mustard,   126 

in  emulsions,  273,  276-277,  281 
Myogen,  211 
Myosin,  211 
Myrosin,  126 

Non-polar  groups,   17 
Nitrogenous  extractives,  210 

Oils,  543,  566,  567 

in  cakes,  488-489,  490,  491,  567 

in  emulsions,  271 

hydrogenation  of,  545 

iodine  number,  544 

in  pastry,   569,   570,   571 

properties  of,  542 

rancidity,  549 

refractive  index,  545 

smoking  temperature,  548 


INDEX 


597 


Omelets, 

addition  of  liquid,  354 

experiments  for,  383-385 

ferrous  sulfide,  353 

method  of  mixing,  352 

temperature  for  cooking,  355 
Onions,   122,   128 

for  flavor,  127,  542 
Orientation, 

fats,  564 

molecules,  17 
Osmotic  pressure,  44 
Ovovitellin,  330 
Oxyhemoblobin,  209 

Pans, 

for  bread,  434 

for  cakes,  473 

for  meat,  229 
Papain,  124,  222 
Parfait,  96 

Pasteurization,  94,  303 
Pastry, 

experiments  for,  579-583 

extent  of  mixing,  571 

flakiness,  572 

shortening   experiments,   569-571 
Peas, 

loss  of  sugar,  128 
Peas,  canned, 

ferrous    sulfide,    128 
Pectic  acid,  153,   154,   155 
Pectic  substances,   153-156 

constitution,  155 

function  of,  153 

in  beans,  138 
Pectin,  153 

alcohol  test  for,   157 

commercial  forms,  159 

concentration  of,  156 

from  different  sources,  157 

high   temperature  on,   158 

in  fruit  pulp,  156 

uses  for,  159 

viscosity  test,  158 
Peptization,  16,  21-22 

means  of,  21 

proteins,  21-22 
Peroxidases,  124 
Persimmons,  122 
pH,  term,  26-28 
Phosphates, 

flour,  400-401,  405 

meat,  223 


Phosphates —  ( Continued) 

milk,  295 

vegetables,  104 
Pickles,  130-131  _ 

crisping  of,   131 
Pie, 

butterscotch  filling,  337 

custard,  345 

soaking  of  crust,  572 
Pie  fillings,  337 
Pigments, 

anthocyanins,  116 

carotinoids,  114,  397 

chlorophyll,  110 

flavones,  114,  397 

in  egg  yolk,  325 

in  flour,  397 

in  milk,  294 

in  muscle,  209 

in  plants,   110-121 
Pineapple,  118,  126 
Plant  acids,  106-109 
Plasticity,  23,  25 
pOH,  term,  27 
Polar  groups,  17,  562 
Polysaccharids,  31-33 
Popovers,  460 

experiments  for,  519 
Pork, 

binding  water,  249 

connective  tissue,  205 

cooking  of,  227 

preparation  for,  227,  258 

grades,  196 
Potassium, 

flour,  400-401 

vegetables,  104 
Potatoes, 

chips,  134-135,  554-555 

flavones,  115 

French  fries,  135 

quality,  133 

starch,   134 

storage  temperature,   134 

sugar  in,  135 
test  for,  135 
Poultry, 

cooking  of,  244-249 
basting,  249 

interior  temperature  for,  248 
losses,  245,  246 
pans  for,  247 
roasting,  245-247 

temperature,  246-247 
time,  249 


598 


INDEX 


Poultry — {Continued) 
edible  meat, 

cost,  242,  246 

percentage,  245,  246 
fat  distribution,  250-251 
turkey,  248-249 
Preserves,  132,  133 
Proteins, 

coagulation  of,  18 

changes  during,   18-19 

factors  affecting,  20 

heat,  19 

interfacial,  20 

mechanical  means,  18 

SH  groups  in,  19 

S-S  groups  in,  19 
combination  with   acids,   12 
combination  with  alkalies,  12 
denaturation,   18-20 
egg,  330-337 
flour,  413-417 
isoelectric  point,  11 
meat,  210-211 
milk,  297-298 
peptization  of,  21-22 
stoichiometrical  combination,  12 
surface  concentration,  15 
Protopectin,   153,  154 
Puff  pastry  shortening,   570 
Punch,  color  of,  117 

Rancidity, 

antioxidants,  551,  552 

cereals  and,   551 

effect  air,  light,  and  heat,  553 

green  light,  553 

inert  gases  and,  552 

metals  and,  551 

prooxidants,  551 

volatilization  of  products,  553 
Rennin, 

coagulation  of  milk,  301-305 
Reversible  colloids,  6 
Rice,  flavones  of,  115 
Rigor  mortis,  214-215 
Ripening  of  meat,  215-217 
Roasters,  young,  245,  246 
Roasts,  see  meats 

Salad  dressing,  cooked,  338-340 
experiments  for,   382 
French  dressing,  273,  291 
mayonnaise,  275-286 

Salsify,  123 

Searing,  231 


Seeding,  50 
Sherbets,  95,  96,  101 
Shortening, 

in  bread,  427,  436 

definition  of,   562 

factors  affecting,   562-567 
Smoking  temperatures  fats,  548 
Soda, 

as  leavening,  447 

curdling   of   milk   and,   307 

to  neutralize, 
corn  sirup,  449 
honey,  449 
molasses,   449 
sour  milk,  448 

with  legumes,   139-141 

with  vegetables,   112,  113 
Sodium  chloride, 

beans,  136 

distilled  water  custards,   334 

flour,  400 

freezing  mixtures,  85 

jelly,  163 

meat,  209,  212 

milk,  294 
Sols,  6 
Solubility, 

temperature  and,  40 
Solute,   39 

fineness  of  division,  40 
Solutions,   39-49 

boiling    point,   46-49 

characteristics   of,   3 

colloidal,  2,  3 

heat  of,  49 

properties  of,  44 

saturated,  41 

supersaturated,  41 

surface  tension  of,  14 

true,  2,  3 

vapor  tension,  45 
Sorghum,    15 
Soups, 

meat,  261 

tomato,    308,   317 
Soybeans,  141 
Specific  gravity, 

cake   batters,   357 

egg  white  foams,  347 

fats,  542 
Sponge  cake,  372 

experiments  for,   390 
Staling, 

bread,  436-438 

cake,  503 


INDEX 


599 


Starch, 

acid  and,  411 
alpha-amylose,  402 
apple  juice  and,  156 
beta-amylose,  402 
chain  length,  404 
combined  with, 
fatty   acids,  406 
phosphoric  acid,  405 
protein,  404 
silicic  acid,  404 
constitution,  404-406 
gelatinization, 
factors   affecting 
combinations,  408 
granule  size,  407,  408 
kind  of  starch,  407,  408 
temperature,  407,  408 
time  granule  is  wetted,  407 
gels,  405 
granules, 

size  and  shape,  402-404 
hydrolysis,  37,  411 
nitrogen,  405 
paste, 

in  emulsions,  273,  286 
viscosity  of,  409-411 
acid,  411 
chain  length,  410 
degree  grinding,  410 
kind  of  starch,  409 
proportion   of, 

alpha  and  beta,  410 
phosphoric  acid,  409 
stiffness,  409 
temperature,  409 
sugar,  411 
phosphorus,  404,  405 
solubility,  404 
soluble,  commercial,  411 
sources,   402 
uses,  402 
Steaks,  227,  258 
Steam,  447 
Stews,  261 

Stoichiometrical  combinations,   12 
Strawberries,   132-133 

experiments  for,   150-151 
Sucrose, 
acids,  35 
alkalies,  37 

crystallization  of,  49-54 
hydrolysis,  35 
inversion  of,  36 
melting  point,  39 


Sucrose —  ( Continued) 

solubility,  42-44 

sources,  34 

sweetness,  35 
Sucrose  solutions, 

boiling  point  of,  49 

corn  sirup  added,  55 

stages  of  cookery  for,  55,  56 
Sugars, 

amorphous,  54 

cooking  fruits  in,   119 

crystallization,  49-54 

effect  of  acids,  35 
alkalies,  37 

gelatin  and,  185 

grades,  52-54 

granulated,  52 

hydrolysis,  35-37 

jelly  and,  169-170 

melting  points,  39 

moisture  absorbing  power,  38 

powdered,  53 

potatoes  and,  135 
test  for,  135 

reactions  with  proteins,  67,  309-310 

solubility,  41-44 

sources,  34 

starch  pastes  and,  411 

stored  vegetables,  128 

structure,  31-33 

sweetness,  relative,  34-35 

tannins  in,  122 

transformed,  53 
Sulfur, 

in  denaturation,  19 
Sulfur  compounds,   126-128 
Surface  films,  15 
Surface  skins,  17 
Surface  tension,  13-15 

alcohol,   14 

interfacial,  15 

solutions,  14 

water,  14 
Suspensions,  2,  3 

characteristics,  2,  3 
Suspensoids,  6 
Syneresis,  8,  170 

Taffy,  68 

experiments  for,  75 
Tannins,  121-123 

astringent  quality,  122 

cherry  juice  and,  123 

chocolate  and,  513 

discolorations  due  to,  122-123 


600 


INDEX 


Tannins — (Continued) 

reactions  of,   121 

tea,  123 
Tartaric  acid,  see  acids 
Tea,  123 

Thermometers,   meat,  233 
Timbales,  461 

experiments  for,  520 
Tin  salts,  110 

and  discolorations,   119 
Tomato  soup,   308,  317 
Tomatoes, 

acid  in,  108 

acidity  of,  308 

gelatin  and,   184 

pigment  in,  114 
Traube's  rule,  14 
Trichinosis,   197-198 

processing  and,   198 

refrigeration   and,   198 
Tunnels, 

in  cakes,  499 

in  muffins,  464 
Turkey, 

roasting  of,  248-249 

temperature  for,  248,  249 
time,  249 

Vapor,  46 

saturated,  46 
Vapor  tension,  44,  45 

soluble  upon,  45 
Veal, 

cooking  of,  227,  258 
grades,   196 
Vegetables, 

cooked  in  milk,  307 
cooking  of, 

green,   112-114 
red,  119 
yellow,  114 


Vegetables —  ( Continued) 
cooking  losses,  103-106 
iron,  105 
nitrogen,   103 
salts,  104 
methods  of  cooking,   106 
salts  of,   104 

sulfur  compounds  of,  127 
Viscosity,  23-24 

lyophilic  systems,  24 
Vitamins,  104,  294 

W^affles,  464 

experiments  for,   523-525 
Watermelon,   130,   131 
Walnuts,  tannins  in,   122 
Water, 

boiling  point,  46 

bound  and  free  water,  22-23 

freezing  point  of,  83 

hard,  137 

loss  from  eggs,  330 

softened,  138 
Wheat, 

classes  of,  394 
White  cake,  516 

experiments  for,  538 

Xanthophyll,  114 
of  eggs,  325 
plants,   114 

Yeast, 

amount  for  bread,  425,  431,  436 
fermentation,  431 
strains,  431 

Zinc, 

in  milk,  294 

utensils,   110 
Zymase,  431 


