Class 
Book.. 


_J1^ 


i 


J-i    ^' 


CopigM^". 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSnV 


It 


Explanations 


of  atl  terms 

used 

in 


Coockery-Cellaring 

and  the  preparation 
of  drinks 


DICTIONARY 


This    book     is     mailed    only     on    re- 
■ceipt    of   postal    order    covering    price. 

P.  O.  BOX  72,  MADISON  SQUARE. 
NEW  YORK  CITY. 


o. 


!  -t) 


\^ 


All  rights  reserved. 

Les   droits    de   reproductions    et 
de     'traduction      sent      reserve. 

Nachdruck,    auch   teilweiser   verboten. 


Copyright,     1908, 

by 
-^JSJaSTJIEPPE 
LiSRARY  of  CONGRESS 
Two  ao^oles  '.Paceived 

iAN,  ,7'^  1909 


BUSS     tC    XXc.  No. 


PRICE   1   DOLLAR. 


PREFACE. 


THIS  book  has  Ijeen  specially  adapted  to  Amer^ 
ican  methods,  anybody  using  it  outside  of 
the  United  States,  please  remember,  that 
each  nation  has  its  pecularities.  The  book  has  been 
written  for  the  purpose  of  giving  a  clear  and  net 
explanation  of  terms  used  in  first-class  catering 
establishments  in  regard  to  dishes  and  drinks  served. 
These  terms  have  come  into  practical  use  in  the 
course  of  years  and  set  a  standard  for  all  high-clasa 
places.  Though  often  misused  by  minor  houses, 
they  are  always  respected  in  high-class  hotels  and 
restaurants. 

The  volume  has  been  specially  compiled  for 
waiters,  who  can  not  be  expected  to  know  th* 
thousands  of  different  dishes  and  names  by  heart. 
A  quick  glance  in  the  book  will  give  them  all  de- 
sired information  and  a  little  study  will  instruct 
them   a  great  deal. 

Many  "so-called"  waiters  have  the  custom,  I  am 
sorry  to  say,  to  tell  the  guest  a  dish  is  prepared  in 
such  and  such  a  way,  when  a  very  different  thing 
is  meant.  They  then  help  themselves  out  of  tho 
hole   by   serving   what   they  explained. 

By  this  manner  a  very  vexing  mix-up  of  ideas 
and  names  follows  and  guests  are  often  put  in  con- 
fusion when  they  order  a  certain  dish  by  name  la 
an  other  hotel  and  explain  to  their  friends  how  it 
is  made  up. 

It  is  certainly  to  be  desired  that  the  public  In 
question  should  be  a  little  more  broadly  instructed 
on  these  questions,  specially  as  a  tendency  is  pre- 
vailing all  over  the  world  and  exceptionally  so  in 
this  COUNTRY,  to  regulate  all  business  after  a 
given  standard. 

The  more  the  public  gets  to  know  this  standard^ 
the  harder  the  fakers  will  have  to  fight  for  their 
existence. 

THE    AUTHOR. 


NOTE. 


THIS  dictionary  has  been  compiled  by  tlie  author 
from  the  latest  and  most  reliable  sources, 
and  no  effort  has  been  spared  to  gather 
into  it  all  formulae  concerning  COOKERY,  CEL- 
LARING AND  DRINKS,  and  special  care  has  been 
paid  to  the  correctness  of  set-up.  Considering  how- 
ever that  many  cooks  like  to  explore  their  ovm 
: fancy,  waiters  are  cautioned  to  always  observe  a 
certain  reserve  in  giving  explanations,  seeing  that 
some  guests  fellow  the  sport  of  getting  the  waiter 
into  trouble.  The  best  way  out  of  this  difficulty 
is  to  tell  the  guest  that  "as  much  as  I  can  remem- 
ber" the  dish  is  prepared  in  such  and  such  a  way. 

The  plan  and  method  of  this  little  volume  are 
new  and  a  cursory  glance  will  at  once  reveal  its 
unique  and  useful  character.  Notwithstanding  the 
small  space  alloted  the  compiler  presents  a  list  of 
about  6000  different  receipts.  This  small  lexicon 
is  designed  for  the  use  of  waiters  and  HOTEL 
PEOPLE  generally,  as  well  as  for  GUESTS,  who 
like  to  do  their  own  ordering,  or  find  out  all  about 
some  dishes  they  have  seen  in  hotels  in  the  shortest 
possible  manner.  Guests  may  also  find  out  from 
the  Menu  what  this  or  that  dish  consists  of,  and 
anybody  fairly  well  acquainted  with  the  little  re- 
ference-book v/ili  have  no  trouble  in  locating  any 
and  all  fancy  names. 

-The  names  are  derived  from  specialties  of  coun- 
/Iries,  towns  or  prominent  people,  either  in  state,  or 
kitchen    affairs. 

Special  attention  is  called  to  the  garnishes,  sauces 
and  soups,  as  many  useful  hints  may  be  gained 
therefrom. 

In  order  that  the  method  and  construction  of 
this  volume  may  be  clearly  understood  it  would 
seem  necessary  to  present  the  following  explana- 
tion: Any  dish  that  is  being  sought  should  be  looked 
^or    first    under    the    letter.      For    example:    Grape, 


flPniit,  Supreme — look  up  Grape  fruit,  first  on  letter 
*'G,**  if  you  do  not  find  a  thorough  explanation, 
look  up  Supreme  in  letter  "S,"  if  this  should  fail 
and  no  clue  indicated,  try  to  think  out  where  you 
may  probably  find  the  solution;  it  will  very  likely 
occur  to  you  that  an  iced  fruit  is  understood,  so 
look  up  Ices  next  and  you  will  surely  find  the  de- 
sired explanation  in  the  best  form;  carry  out  this 
plan  in  all  cases,  though  it  will  hardly  be  necessary, 
as  most  times  you  will  find  a  remark  that  will  lead 
you  to  the  right  heading.  After  a  short  time  of 
study  the  reader  will  develop  a  right  instinct  on 
culinary  matters,  that  will  make  the  book  in  most 
cases  superfluous,  and  he  will  then  only  have  to  re- 
fer to  it  in  doubtful  cases. 

In  the  case  of  Fishes,  Relevees,  (removes,  etc.),  it 
is  best  to  look  up  the  Garnishes  first,  as  this  will 
in  most  cases  solve  the  question;  if  however  Gar- 
mishes,  Sauces  and  the  Letter  should  fail,  think  of  a 
.-similar  dish  and  look  that  one  up  as  stated  before. 
For  example:  Mignon  of  filets  of  beef  and  Tour- 
nedos. 

In  some  instances  dishes  will  be  found  with  slight 
additions,  or  the  one  or  other  missing,  such  as  spe- 
cialties of  certain  houses,  in  that  case  the  author 
would  greatly  appreciate,  if  the  reader  would  collect 
the  mentioned  instances  and  communicate  with  him 
on  card  or  letter.  These  dishes  can  then  be  added 
in  following  editions  and  in  this  way  the  book 
becomes  the  most  complete  ever  dreamed  of. 

KURT    HEPPE, 


P.  S. — Don't  fail  to  read  the  "Hints  on  Service" 
at  the  back  of  the  book.  To  find  out  all  about  the 
choice  Morsels  of  Viands,  look  up  Tit-Bits.  At  the 
back  of  the  book  are  some  empty  pages  for  observa- 
tions and  manuscript  notes. 


ABREVIATIONS. 


s.    w serve    with. 

h hot 

boi boiled 

r roast 

gr grillei 

poa poached 

veg vegetables. 

pot potatoes. 

miishr.  . miishrooms 

shal shallota 

garl garlic 

truff truffles 

pist pistachios 

delic delical 

Span Spanish 

confect confectionery 

Fr Frencli. 

& and 

swchs sandwiches. 

sc sauces^ 

nat natural 

artks artichokes. 

br brown 

Arb Arabic 

Ger German 

W.    I West    Indian 

trop tropical 

flav flavored 

cor corruption 

fr.    dr French    dressing^ 

sm small 

chop chopped 

targ taragon 

arom aromatic 

cov covered 

apric apricots. 

marm marmelade 

cr cream 

sug sugar 

wh whipped  . 

st stuffed 

reg regions 

spec species 

spec special 


Ablette 7 Anchovies 

Ablette — french    for    whitebait.       Blanchaille. 

Absinthe — infusion  in  strong  alcohol  of  worm  wood, 
annrs,  fennel,  etc.;  French  style;  serve  with 
water  and  lump  sugar, ;  special  glass  top  or 
spoon. 

Accolade*   en, — french,    means   brace    of. 

Aerated  water — natural  or  artificial;  impregnated 
with    carbonic    acid. 

Agnelott^^mince-meat-patties. 

Agro-dolce — sauce;  sweet-sour,  brown;  serT«  with 
savoury  meats. 

Alguilettes — french  for  little  needles,  thin  stript  of 
fish  or  meat  on  skewers,  fried;  serve  with  an- 
chovie  sauce  and  lemon,  if  fish. 

AlUade — piece  of  bread,  rubbed  with  garlic ;  for 
salads,    stews,    etc.,    (chapon). 

A-la — french   for  after,    the   style   of. 

Alaska — an  omelette  en  surprise ;  ice  cream  with 
omelette    meringue. 

Albumen — nutrient  substance  of  foods;  ii  often 
sold  as  a  powder. 

Alcohol — from  the  Arab. ;  product  of  fermenting 
sugar. 

Ale — see  Beer. 

Ale-flip — hot  ale,    sugar  and  spice. 

Ale-posset — hot  milk,  ale,  egg,  sugar,  somatimei 
served  with  toast   in   basin. 

Algae — sea- weeds. 

Alligator  pear — W.  Indies;  serve  cut  in  halfes, 
stoned,  resting  in  bowle  of  ice  with  french  dress- 
ing; or  spooned  out  as  a  salad  with  french  dress- 
ing or  with  lemon-juice  and  sugar. 

Alma — a   sweet   semolina  pudding. 

Allspice  or  Jamaica  pepper — a  spice;  taste  of  cin- 
namon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  combined. 

Amer  Picon — -a   French  bitter. 

Ambrosia — fruit-bread. 

Amontillado — a   pale   dry   Spanish   wine. 

Amourette — small  garnishes  of  spinal  marrow  of 
beef, 

Anacreon — french  cake,  almonds,  eggs,  kirsh,  po- 
tato-flour. 

Anchovies — small  fish;  serv^  cold  with  lemon, 
chopped   eggs   and   parsley;    egg-dressing. 

Anchovies   on  toast — serve   hot   with   lemon. 


Andouilettes 8 Apple  pavaroisfr 

Anchovies  a-la  Pascale — a  pain  with  olives  moulded. 

Anchovies  surprise— ^crumbed  out  rolls,  filled  with 
chopped    eggs,    chives,    taragon. 

Anchovie  leaf  or  salad — served  on  lettuce  leaf 
with  egg-dressing  and  chives,  cabbage;  hash  up 
with  french  dressing  or  lemon-juice;  to  be  done 
with   silver  knife. 

Anchovie  pear — W.  Tndiea:  tastes  like  Mangoe- 
pickle. 

Andouilles — French  for  a  kind  of  sausages;  made 
of    chitterlings. 

Andouilettes — rolls  of  minced  veal;  served  often  in 
vol-au-vent, 

Angelika — ornament  and  flavor;  sold  in  bundles  of 
green   sticks,    a   candied  herb. 

Angelika   punch — a    sherbet   with   angelika   flavor. 

Angels  bread — a  variety  of   cocoa-nut  bread. 

Angels  on  horseback — oysters  on  bacon,  breaded ; 
served  on  skewer,  on  croutons. 

Angostura  bitters — digestive  bitters  of  angostura 
bark,  chamomil-flowers,  cardamus  and  orange- 
peel;  of  great  merit;  good  for  sea-sickness  and 
stomachache. 

Anis — an    aromatic    herb    of   the    pimpinella    tribe. 

Anisette — French   cordial  of   oil  of  anis   seed. 

Antipasti — Italian  for  Hoeurs  _d'Oeuvres;  consists 
of    thunny,    pickles,    carrots,  ^tc. 

Apperitive — French,    for    cocktail. 

Apples — Newtown  pippin;  medium  size,  highly  aro- 
matic; see  Entremets. 

—  Calville  blanche;   first-class;    sweet,   medium  size. 

—  Reinette ;    reddish  brOwn,   medium  size,   best  des- 

sert   apple. 
Apple    rolly-poly — of    apple    and    suet    crust    with 

cinnamon,    boiled;    served   hot. 
Apple-timbile — of   rice,    apples,    thin   paste ;    covered 

with  apricot  marmelade ;  served  hot  or  cold. 
Apple-toddy — apples,  nutmeg,  allspice ;   cloves,  mace, 

and    rum. 
Apple-turnover — stewed   apples   in   tarte   paste   with 

apricot-jam,    hot   or    cold.  * 

Apples  baked — served  in  terrapin  plate  with  cream 

and  sugar. 
Apple    Bavaroise — St.    Alban;     apples    stewed    with* 

syrup;    served   cold;    garniture   of  apple-jelly,   and 

bavaroise  custard  in  centre. 


Apples  fried 9 Artichokes 

Apples  fried — slices  of  unpeeled  apples,  fried  in 
pork-fat. 

Apple-miroton — of  russet-apples  in  slices,  sugar 
and  lemon-juice,  stewed  and  dressed  in  crown 
shape,    with   red-currant   jelly   and    Madeire   wine. 

Apple-suedoise — of  stiff  apple  marmelade,  colored 
corks  of  apples,  garniture  of  crystalized  fruit 
ornaments. 

Apples  en  surprise — reinette  apples  in  short  paste, 
filled  with  pear  or  marmelade  and  jam;  glazed; 
served  hot. 

Apple  Vol-Au-Vent — stewed  apples  with  lemon  and 
cloves;   served  in  case  of  paste.  * 

Apricots  d'Artois — double  pattern  paste  with  apri- 
cot jam,  apples  and  red-currant  jelly,  on  top;  le* 
Entremets. 

Apricot  cheese — sieved  pulp  of  apricots  with  blanch- 
ed kernels,  dried  and  firm;  served  with  whipped 
cream. 

Apricot  Colbert — halfed  apricots,  stewed  with  rice, 
dipped  in  egg,  breaded  and  fried;  served  with 
sweet    sauce. 

Apricot  Conde — apricot  stewed  in  syrup,  with  border 
of  rice,  whipped  cream,  border  covered  with 
chopped    pistachios. 

Apricot  Eatafia — apricots  filled  and  baked,  with 
their  blanched  kernels,  sugar,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  brandy. 

Aqua-vitae — water  of  life;  old  name  for  Irish 
whiskey. 

Armadillo — stewed  or  toasted  steak ;  Central  and 
South    America. 

Arracacha-root — tastes  like  parsnip  or  chestnut, 
tropical  regions;    size  a    cow's   horn. 

Arrack — India;    distilled    palm    juice. 

Arrow-root — delicat  flavored,  starchy  food,  W.  In- 
dies, root  of  the  Maranda  plant ;  was  formerly 
mistaken  for  Indian  arrow  poison  plant. 

Artichokes — green  or  globe,  resembles  a  thistle; 
serve  by  taking  inner  leaves  out,  remove  th« 
flower  seeds  with  dessert  spoon,  and  if  served  for 
two,  turn  up-side  down,  split  in  two  from  bot- 
tom with  two  forks;  serve  sauce  separate  on 
small   plate,   or  in   the  hollow  scoop. 

—  Artichoke;    fr.,    Artichaud;    ger.,    Artischoke;    Be« 
sauces   and   garnitures. 


Artichokes 10 Asparagus 

—  Coeur  d'Artichaud  a  la  Gastronome;   stuffed  with 

potatoe-puree. 

—  a  la  Bonne-Femme ;    stewed,   white   sauce. 

—  a   la  Bretonne ;    fried  in  butter,   white   sauce. 

—  farcie    a   I'ltalienne;    stuffed   with   bread,    onions 

and  grated  cheese. 

—  frite  a  I'ltalienne;  minced,  spiced,  rolled  in  eggs, 

fried  in  fat. 

—  a  la  Gouffe ;   fried  in  butter. 

—  a   la   Grimod   de   la   Reyniere ;    stuffed  with   fried 

onions. 

—  a  la  Parisienne;  with  shallots,  garlic,  white  wine, 

Italian    sauce    and   roots. 

—  a   la    Lyonnaise ;    with   butter,    white   wine,    white 

sauce,    parsley   and  lemon-juice. 
• — Fonds    et    Culs    d'Artichauds;    Artichoke-bottoms. 

—  a  la   Castiglane ;   with  truffles,   celery,   asparagus, 

cucumbers. 

—  a    la    Cussy ;    with    puree    of    tomatoes    and   fried 

oysters. 
s — a    la    Descartes;    with    truffles,    veal    and    goose- 
liver. 

—  a  la  Flamande ;  with  carrots. 

—  a    la    Florentine ;    with    truffles,    and   mushrooms, 

German  sauce. 

—  a   la   Lucullus ;    with   Madeira    sauce   and   truffle- 

mousse. 

—  a  la  Villeroy;  dipped  in  Villeroy  sauce,  fried. 

—  Artichaud    de    Jerusalem ;     a    kind    of    potato    or 

gourde,    tastes    of    artichokes ;    the    root    of    a 
sun-flower   species,   is  used  in  many  ways  like 
potatoes;    see  Potatoes. 
Artichokes  a  la  Barigoule — scooped  out,  boiled,  fill- 
ed with   fried   artichokes,    baked  with   bacon. 
Asparagus — plant   of   the  Lily-tribe;    serve   with  the 
cut    towards    the    customed;    always    take   note    if 
new   or   caned   asparagus   are    ordered   on    account 
of  price. 
Asparagus  Pompadour — boiled,   dried,  with  sauce  of 
vinegar,  butter,  egg-yolk,  salt  and  pepper,  poured 
over. 

—  Spanish  style;  boiled  asparagus  tips  with  poached 

eggs ;    served  with  vinaigrette. 

—  a  la  Polonaise;   with  butter  and  bread-crumbs. 

—  sauce  Yierge ;  with  white  sauce, 

—  a  la  Audot ;  with  broth  of  roast  veal. 


Asparagus 11 Arocado-pear 

—  a  la  Bavaroise ;   with   cake  of  bread  in  butter,  in 

vegetable. 

—  a  la  l'''ribouf;:eoise;  with  cheese  and  brown  butter. 

—  a   la  Genevoise;   with  egg-sauce. 

—  a  la  Hollandaise;    with  dutch   sauce. 

—  a    I'ltalienne;    with    white    Italian    sauce. 

—  au   jambon;    with    slices    of    cold   ham. 

—  au   Jus;    with   brown   meet-gravy. 

—  a   la  Monselet;   with  broth  of  roast  veal. 

—  Nouvelles ;    new    asparagus. 

—  a  la  Pompadour ;  with  sauce  of  corn,  butter,  eggs, 

and    lemon-juice. 
(B)    or   if   tips,    with    dutch   sauce,   with   vinegar 
poured    over. 
Asperges     a    la     Colbert — asparagus     with    poached 
eggs   and  white   cream   sauce. 

—  a    I'lmperiale;    with    truffles. 

- — Pain   d' Asperges   a   la   Noel;    puree   of  asparagus, 
steamed  in  a  mould,  with  chicken. 

—  Pointes    d' Asperges;     asparagus-tips;     a    la    com- 

tesse,     with    small    patties. 

—  a  la  Royale;   with  truffles. 

—  au  saumon  fume ;   with  smoked  salmon. 

—  a   la    Sevillane;    with    salad   of    artichokes.    |1    For 

other  garnishes  and  dressings,  see  sauces  and 
garnitures. 

Asperule  Odorante — a  fragrant  plant,  termed  "Wood- 
ruff;   Waldmeister. 

Aspic — a   savoury  jelly;   made  from  meat. 

Aspic  a  la  Normande — savoury  meats   in  jelly. 

Asti — a    sparkling    Italian    white    wine. 

Asuree — a  Turkish  liquor;  jelly  of  wheat,  with 
raisins    and    almonds. 

Athole-cakes — see    cakes    and   pastry. 

Atelettes — silver    skewers    with    ornamental   heads. 

Attereau — supper   tit-bita   on   skewers. 

Au  bleu — french  for  plain  boiled. 

Au   four — french    for   in   the    oven. 

Au  gras — french  for  dish,  prepared  with  meat  stock. 

Au  gratin — french  for  any  dish,  baked  on  the  top, 
mostly    with    cheese. 

Au   Jus — french   for    "with   gravy." 

Au    maigre — french    for     "without    meat." 

Au  naturel — french  for  plain. 

Ava-fara — pandamus. 

Avocado-pear — Alligator  pear;    see   above. 


feaT^a 12  Barszez 

Baba — "brioche    cake,    soaked   with    rum. 

Babeurre — french    for    buttermilk. 

Babka — a   polish    cake   with   cheese   and  almonds.. 

Bacalac — salt  codfish,   with   oil   and  garlic.  '■ 

Backings — pancakes   or   fritters. 

Bacon — salted  and  dried  flesh   of   swine. 

Bacon  and  eggs — bacon  fried,  with  baked  eggs  on 
top. 

Bael — Bengal  Quince,  very  fragrant. 

Bagratlon-soup — see   soups. 

Bain-Marie — hot  water-bath. 

Bakewell  pudding — fruit  pie,  with  lemon  peel  and 
custard. 

Baking  powder — carbonate  of  soda,  in  potato 
starch;   gives  lightness  to  paste. 

Ballotines — minced  meats,  seasoned,   used  as  stuffing. 

Balorine- — cut-up  cold  beef,  onions,  beet-root,  cara- 
way,   whiskey,     egg-yolk. 

Baltimore    butter-pie — Custard-pie   without   eggs. 

Bamboo-shoots — compare    with    asparagus    in    taste. 

Banana — longuish  fruit  of  fine  flavor ;    W.  Indies. 

Banbury  cakes — oval  cakes  with  dried  currants, 
orane:e,    lemon-peel    and   allspice. 

Bannocks — griddle-cakes    of    corn-flower. 

Bar — a  fish,   resembles  haddock. 

Baraquille — a  pastry  filled  with  chicken. 

Barbarie,  a  la^truff'es,  sweet  breads,  veal,  mush- 
room   s^^iidded   with    truffles. 

Barbe  de   Capucin — blanched  chicoree-salad. 

Barbecue — roast  whole ;   style  of. 

-Barbel — a   fish   of   the    carp   tribe. 

Barbera — Italian  red  wine. 

Barberries — used    in    preserves    and    sweet    meats. 

Bavarian    cream — see    Bavaroise;    milk,    sugar,    egg-, 
yolk,    flavored. 

Barcelonettes — iced  cakes  with  confites. 

Barding — a   breast   plate   of   lard. 

Barigoule,    a  la — olive   oil   dressing. 

Barley — a  wholesome   grain. 

Barley-gruel — the  second  water  of  boiled  barley 
and   lemon. 

Barolo — piemontese  wine. 

Baron  of  beef — two   sirloins  joined  at  the  backbone. 

Barsac — a    sauterne    wine. 

Barszcz-soup — sour  beetroot-juice,  beef,  leeks,  mush- 
rooms, sausage;  beetroot-iuice  and  sour  cream; 
served  separate  as  a  rule. 


Bartavelle 13 Beatilles 

Bartavelle — red-legged   partridge. 

Basil — a  herb  used  for  seasoning  meats  and  turtle. 

Bass — fish  of  the  perch  tribe;  fr.,  Bar;  ger.,  Barsch, 
for    preparations     see    pike,     garnitures,     sauces. 

Bass — baked  bordelaise,  with  red  wine,  shallots, 
Spanish   sauce,   garlic  and  gray  fish. 

Bass — Chambord;  larded,  white  wine,  carrots,  on- 
ions,   Spanish    sauce    and    gray   fish. 

Bass  casserole — stiift'ed  with  butter  dressing,  cooked 
with    stock. 

Bass  en  fillets  a  la  Murette — poached  in  red  wine, 
chopped  mushrooms. 

Bass   in    Scotch   style — boiled,    white    sauce,   vege. 

Bath-Bunns — fancy   pastry,    light   paste. 

Bath  chaps — pigs  cheeks,  covered  with  oatmeal,, 
smoked. 

Batons — sugar    sticks. 

Batons   de   Jacob — spongy   cake    of   oblong   shape. 

Batter — mixture    of    flower,    water,    milk    and    eggs. 

Batvina  soup — serve  cold,  spinach  and  sorrel,  sour 
beer,    cray-fish    and    salmon. 

Bavarian  cream — see*  Bavaroise ;  milk,  sugar,  egg- 
yolks,    flavored. 

Bay-leaves — a    flavoring,    like    bitter    almonds. 

Beache  de  mer — gelatinous  mass,   sea-food. 

Beans  french — fresh  tender  beans;  junge  Hiilsen,, 
green    beans,    pods. 

Beans,  French,  a  I'Anglaise — boiled  with  melted 
butter,    sprinkled   with    parsley. 

Beans,  French,  a  la  Bretonne — onions,  butter,  broth, 
shallots,   cooked  with   the   beans. 

Beans,  French,  a  la  Poulette — boiled.  Bechamel  sc, 
stock,    sugar,    onions,    egg-yolk   and   cream. 

Beans,  baked  haricot — beans  boiled  with  beef  or 
pork,  mustard  and  molasses,  baked.  White 
beans    without    shoots. 

Beans,  boiled  haricot — soaked  beans,  salted  sim- 
mered;   served  with  parsley  and  butter. 

Haricot  beans,  red  a  la  Bourgignonne — butter,  on- 
ions,   cloves,    sweet   herbs,    boiled   with   red  wine. 

Lima  beans  or  butter-beans — delicious  green  beant 
of  flavery   character. 

Bear — dark    colored    meat,    tastes    like    sweet    pork. 

Bearnaise — see   sauces. 

Beatilles — sweetbreads,  cocks  combs,  Strassburg  fat 
livers,    etc. ;    delicious    luxuries. 


bechamel 14  Beef 

Sechamel — a   white   sauce   of  veloute   and  milk. 

Beef — see   garnitures,    tournedos,    sauces,    etc. 

Seef  a  la  mode — read — a  la  mode  francaise ;  beef 
rested  in  vinegar,  onions  and  spice,  lardet,  brown- 
ed, simmered  with  onions,  carrots,  turnips  and 
water,  juice  thickened  with  flour  and  served  over 
the    meat. 

Beef  bouilli — boiled  beef. 

—  for  braised  beef,    see  lower  down. 

Beef  collops — chopped,  cooked  with  lard  and  but- 
ter; served  with  thickened  gravy,  seasoned  with 
vinegar. 

Beef  a  la  cuiller — rump  of  beef,  scooped  out,  the 
cavity  filled  in  with  a  ragout  of  mushrooms, 
Madeira,   beef  and  tomato    sauce. 

Seef  en  daube — larded,  braised  with  bacon,  onions, 
carrots,    garnished    with    jelly;    served    cold. 

Beef  a  la  doopiajia — chopped  fresh  onions,  ginger, 
garlic,  beef  cut-up,   curried. 

Beef  a  la  francaise — meat  boiled  off  the  bones, on- 
ions, red  peppers,   hot  or  cold. 

Beei,  Geiman  style — with  bacon  and  vegetables, 
stewed  with  broth,  gravy  and  white  wine;  Brus- 
sels   sprouts    and    chestnuts; '  veloute    sauce. 

Beef  Gobbets — cooked  with  mace,  pepper,  cloves, 
etc. ;    served   on   toasted   french   rolls. 

Beef  grenadines — rump  cut  in  cotelettes,  larded, 
coated   with   brown   gravy. 

Beef  Grenadines  a  la  Rousssl,  of  filets — larded, 
Baute,    artichoke   bottom,    stuffed   olives. 

Beef    Napolitaine — silverside,    rolled   in    sweet    herbs 
and   bacon,    browned,    tomatoe    sauce,    with   maca- 
roni. 
Beef     Parisienne — roast     rump,     larded     with     ham, 
white   wine;    served  with  vegetables. 

Beef  pilau — cut  in   slices ;    served  in   curried  rice. 
Beef  pot   au  feu — broth,    boiled  beef,    seasoned  with 

vegetables;    serve  with  toasted  bread. 
Beef    pot-pie — cut    up ;    stewed   pork    or   bacon    and 
onions,    baked    in    dumpling    dough. 

Beef,     Prussian     style — roast     tender    beef,     larded, 
seasoned    with    vegetables    and    beer,    simmered; 
served  with   cold   cucumber. 
Beef  pudding — cut  up,  with  onions  and  mushrooms, 

boiled  in   sweet  paste. 
Beef     rissoles — minced     cold     beef,     seasoned     with 
sweet  herbs,   mixed  with  bread-crumbs,  egg-yolks, 
ball    shaped   and   fried. 


Beef 15 Beef 

Beef    paupiettes — fresh    slices    of    cold    beef    with 

farce-   meat,   rolled  up,   dipped  in   butter;    brown 

sauce. 
Beef  roulettes — large  slices,  stuffed,  rolled  up,  fried 

in    pork    fat. 
Beef  soup   a  I'Anglaise — broth  with  vegetables  and 

cut  up  squares  of  beef. 
Beef    soup    ecossaise,    Scotch   style — cut   up    squares 

of  beef,  onions,  broth,  oatmeal  and  Madeira  wine. 
Beef  steak  a  la  Marchand  de  vin — broiled,  red  win© 

sauce. 
Beef  steak  carpet  bag,  or  steak  a  la  Chateau-brland ■ 

rump   split,   filled  with  oyster   sauce   and  broiled. 
Beef  steak,  Spanish  style,  or  Mexicaine — with  green 

peppers,    onions,    stewed    and    tomatoe    sauce. 
Beef     steak,     a    la    Eomaine — plain,     broiled,     small 

cherry    tomatoes. 
Beef    tea — beef-juice,    stewed    out    of    lean    beef    in 

dry    process. 

—  Braised   beef;    beef   braised  on   a   layer  of   sliced 

onions  and  fat  bacon  with  wine,  carrots,  on- 
ions,   sweet  herbs,   cloves  and  stock. 

—  Braised     beef     Bignonne ;     potatoes     filled     with 

force-meat,  baked;  served  with  braised  rump 
of   beef. 

—  Braised    beef    a    la    Flamande;    decorated    with    a 

quarter  cooked  red  cabbage,  turnips,  carrot* 
and  sliced. 

—  Braised    beef  '  a    la    Japonnaise;     with    Japanese 

crosnes,     (small    screw    shaped   turnips). 

—  Braised    beef   a    la    Mode;    marinaded    with    sweet 

herbs  and  lemon,  browned  with  onions  and 
carrots,    in    claret;    served   in    own    gravy. 

—  Braised   beef    a    la    Providence ;    with    cauliflower, 

slageolets,    carrots ;    served    in   own    gravy. 

—  Braised  beef   a   la   Russe;    with   Russian   sauce. 

—  Braised  chump  of  beef;  braised  with  brandy  and 

white    wine. 

—  Braised  beef  a  la   Mainton;   braised  with   sherry, 

stock   and  gherkins. 

—  Braised  beef  a  la  Jardiniere;   braised  with   Spanish 

sauce   and   young   vegetables. 

—  Breslau   of   beef;    roast   beef,    chopped   fine   with 

bread-crumbs;  seasoned  with  thyme,  cream, 
gravy,  eggs,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  baked  with 
Spanish    sauce. 


Beef 16 Beef 

—  Beef  a  la  Royale;    stewed  with  chopped  oysters, 

parsley  and  bacon,  baked  with  claret,  flour  and 
pickled  onions. 

—  Beefsteak   a   la   Minute;    slice,    cut   thin,   broiled, 

herb    butter. 

—  Broiled    beef    cakes ;    chopped    raw    beef,    onions, 

maitre    d'hotel. 

—  Broiled   porterhouse    steak;    middle    of   best   part 

of  loin,  from  fillet  to  hip,  cut  thick,  broiled 
for  about  25   minutes. 

—  Broiled    fillet    of    beef;    broiled    for    10    minutes-; 

served  with  maitre  d'hotel. 

—  Broiled    rump     steak;     broiled    for    10    minutes; 

served  with  maitre  d'hotel. 

—  Broiled  sirloin  Mexican;   with  mushrooms,    sweet, 

peppers,   tomatoe  sauce. 

—  Broiled    sirloin    steak;    broiled    for    15    minutes; 

served  with  maitre  d'hotel. 

—  Broiled    sirloin    Caroli;    bordelaise    with    taragon, 

benedict    potatoes. 

—  Cannelon  of  beef;   lean  beef  chopped  fine,  mixed 

with  bacon  or  ham,  sweet  herbs,  nutmeg,  eggs, 
shaped  in  long  rolls  and  baked;  served  with 
gravy. 
■-^-  Chateaubriand  of  beef ;  thick  slice  of  fillet,  slit, 
filled  with  ox-marrow-,  onions  and  cayenne, 
broiled  on  a  grid-iron;  served  with  lemon- 
juice    over. 

—  Contre  filet  a  la  Duchesse ;   the  filet   of  the  re- 

versed  side    of   the   backbone,    larded,    braised, 
brown   sauce,    duchesse   potatoes. 
— -Cold  boiled   beef   plain   warmed;    slices,    fried  in 
brown  butter,   chopped  fried  parsley. 

—  Corned    beef,    English    style;    pickled    beef,    sim- 

mered  slowly,    pressed;    served    cold   in    slices. 

—  Croquette    of   filet   of  beef,    a   la   Bienville;    fried, 

sausage  shaped  of  finely  hashed  meat. 

Curing  beef  for  drying;  rub  the  pieces  well  with 

mixture  of  saltpetre,  salt  and  molasses;  pack 
in  keg,  cover  with  the  pickle  48  hours,  hang 
up  to   dry. 

—  Filet   of  beef;   under  cut  of  sirloin  or  tenderloin, 

tender  and  juicy. 
'—Filet    of   beef   a   la   broche;    skinned   off,   beaten, 
larded,    oiled,    covered   with   vegetables.      Mari- 
naded;   fixed    on    spit,    roasted    on    clear    fire, 


Beef 17 Filet  of  Beef 

sauce  of  stock,  half  glaze  and  onion;  serve 
with  garniture. 

—  Filet  of  beef  Chateau-briand;  cut  in  round  pieces, 

drained  in  marinade,  saute  with  butter,  half 
glaze ;  served  with  border  of  mashed  potatoes, 
fried  potatos  in  centre. 

—  Eilet    of    beef    Continentaie;     steaks    beaten    and 

grilled;  served  with  fried  potatoes,  butter  with 
parsley  and  cresses  or  with  brown  mushrooms. 

- —  Filet  of  beef  Goufle ;  lardet,  mirepoix  and  mar- 
sala,  half  glaze  and  garniture  of  chicken-farca 
meat,  olives,  tongue  and  truffles;  cock's  combs, 
mushrooms,  with  Goddard  sauce,   socle  of  rice. 

• — Filet  of  beef  a  la  Hollandaise;  sliced,  dipped 
in  flour,  broiled;  served  with  mashed  potatoes 
and   Dutch   sauce. 

—  Filet  of  beef  a  la  Melba;   stuffed  lettuce,  braised 

tomatoes,    chestnut   puree. 

—  Filet    of    beef    a    la    Mirabeau;    fine    sliced    and 

broiled,    maitre    d'hotel,    garniture    fillets    an- 
chovies,   olives    and   cresses. 
• — Filet    of    beef    saute    a    la    Goodwin;    with    veal, 
kidneys,   potatoes,   sharp  brown   sauce. 

—  Filet  of  beef  a   la   Napolitaine;    rested  two  hours 

in     cooked     marinade,     then     fried,     sauce     of 
stewed    currants,     almonds,    brown    sauce    and 
red  currant  jelly. 
— -Filets    mignons;    see    Tournedos,    letter. 

—  Forcemeat    of    beef;    chopped    beef,    suet,    bread- 

crumbs, chopped  raw  beef,  chopped  parsley, 
lemon  peel,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  etc.,  ball 
shaped    baked. 

—  Filet    de    Boeuf    Rindslende;     Schmorbraten;     see 

sauces  and  garnitures. 
Aiguilette     of    Filet     a    la    Concorde — broiled    with 
Magenta-sauce    and    baked    tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Barcelone ;  with  rice. 

~— a  la  Bee;   with  truffled  duck's  liver. 

—  a  la  Bonne-foy;   roasted  with  butter  sauce,   pars- 

ley   a    shallots. 

—  a  la  Charlie  Robins ;   artichoke  'bottom  with  mar- 

row, Montebello   sauce. 

—  Braise     a     la     Clermont-f  errand ;     with    red     beef 

tongue,    braised. 

—  a  la   Colnet;   with  ragout  of  quails. 

—  a    la    Conde;    with  rabbit   ragout. 


niet  of  Beef 18 Filet   of  Beef 

—  a  la  Dufresnoy;   with   cocks   combs,   kidneys   and 

truffles. 

—  a   la    Chartreuse  _;    with   vegetable    cups. 

—  a    la    Choisy;    with   ham    and    truffles,    vegetables. 
■ —  a    la    Conflans ;    with    herbs,    white    wine,    tongue, 

truffles,   vegetables. 

—  a  la  Conti ;   with  green  peas. 

—  a    la    Dauphine ;    with    goose-liver    moss,    madeire, 

artichokes. 

• — •  a  la  Diplomate ;  with  Financiere,  tongue  and 
truffles. 

• —  a  la  Favorite ;  artichoke-bottom  with  peas,  Pari- 
sian potatoes,    gravy. 

■ —  a  la  Forestiere ;  with  lard  and  truffles,  artichokes, 
cellery. 

—  a     la     Franklin ;     larded,     braised,     brown     sauce, 

stuffed    tomatoes,    potatoes    sautes. 

—  a   la   Garfield;    with  ham,   tongue,   truffles,   mush- 

rooms. 

—  a     la     Gastronome ;     with    lard,     truffles,     tongue, 

sweet-breads,    chestnuts,    combs. 

—  a     la     Joquey     Club ;     with     truffles,     quenelles ; 

madeire,    tomatoes. 

—  a    la    languedocienne ;    with   ragout    of   veal. 

—  a    la    Luxemburg;    with   rabbit   ragout. 

—  a  la  Levasseur ;  larded,  braised,  cepes,  provencale 

sauce. 

—  a   la   Louis   quatorze;   with   stuffed  potatoes. 

—  a     la     Louisiane;     with     peppers,     tomatos,     corn 

croquettes. 

—  a    la    Luxembourgeoise ;    with    artichokes,    string 

beans. 

—  a   la    Marechale ;   with  truffles   and  fowl   sausages. 

—  a  la  Maillot;  with  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Malvoisie ;  with  madeire. 

—  a    la    Moderne ;    larded,    braised,    maccaroni,    tim- 

bale   of   chestnut  puree. 

—  a    la     Chasseur;     marinaded    with    game    patties, 

chestnuts,   olives. 

—  a  la   Matignon;    with  vegetable    coating. 

—  Tranche    a    la    Henry    quatre ;     slice    saute    with 

potato    croquettes. 

—  a  la  Maison  d'or;   with  foie   gras   and  truffles. 

—  a   la    Sherry;    with  hashed  mushrooms   and  green 

peppers. 

—  a   la    Chasseur;    saute  with   champignons. 


rilet   of  Beef l_o Filet  of  Beef 

—  Rennaisance;    artichoke    bottom,    stuffed    tomatos, 

vegetables. 

—  Richelieu;   lettuce  stuffed,   braised  tomatos;   sauce 

madere. 
■ — Remoiissat ;    larded,    braised   with   fresh   tomatoes, 
mushrooms,    brown    sauce    with    onions. 

—  a  la  Pascal;   with  ragout  of  rabbits   and  veg. 

—  a    la   Trianon;    larded,    braised   with  ham,    patties 

with   chestnuts. 

—  Trianon;     straw    potatoes,    bearnaise. 

—  a    la    Mazarin;    with    patties,    truff.es    and    sweet 

breads,    for    pork :    with    celery,    onions,    chest- 
nuts. 

—  a     la     Mercedes;     with     anchovies,     lettuce     and 

tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Oppenheim;    larded  with   chicken   meat,   ham 

and    truffes. 

—  a   rOrientale;    marinaded,    sauce   poivrade. 

—  a     la     Piemontaise;     with     tomatoes     and     stuffed 

mushrooms. 

—  a    I'Allemande;    with    green    peas    and   dumplings. 

—  a    I'Egyptienne ;     with    roots    and    okras. 

—  a    r Orleans;    artichoke    bottoms,    soubise,    truffles, 

potatoes    chateau,    sauce    madere. 

—  a    la     Segur;     larded,    braised,    stuffed    tomatoes, 

potato    croquettes. 

—  Beef  a  la   Sevigne;   with  spinach  patties. 

—  a     la     Polonaise ;     marinaded     with     sour     cream, 

mushrooms. 

—  a   la    Portugaise;    with   tomatoes   and   Madeira   sc. 

—  a    la    Providence;     l^arded,    roast    with    red    wine, 

ragout. 

—  a  la  Rossini ;  with  asparagus,  truffles  &  tomatoes. 

—  a    la    pauvre   homme;    marinaded   with    anchovies, 

brown   sauce. 

—  a   la   Roubert;    with  rice,   truffles,    oysters,   combs. 

—  a  la  Royale ;   with  tongue  and  truffles,   financiere. 

—  a    la    St.     Alliance;     with    carrots,     fried    onions, 

artichokes. 

—  a  la  Cheron;   with  tomatoe  and  herb-sauce;   stuff- 

ed mushrooms;   note  difference  with  filets  mig- 
non   further  down. 

—  a    la    Choiseul;    with    goose-liver    and    artichokes. 

—  a   la    Segure;    larded,   braised,    with    stuffed  toma- 

toes, potatoe-croquette. 

—  Saute  a  la  Scribe;   with  puree  of  goose-liver. 

—  a  la  Vernon;  saute  w.  beef  ragout  and  cucumbers. 


Filet  of  Beef  20  Filet-mignon  of  Beef 

—  a    la    Tombouktu;     with    truffles,     madeire,     veal 

force. 
• — -a   la    Tiiroiie;    with    garlic   and   tomatoes. 

—  a    la   Valois ;    butter    sauce    with    eggs. 

—  a   la  Vernon ;    marinaded,   with  ham  and   noodles, 

raisin   sauce. 

—  a    la    Westmoreland ;    with    sour    crout,    oysters, 

cauliflower. 

—  Coeur   de   filet   de  boeuf   a  la   Sancerroise ;    steak 

of  filet  of  beef,   duchesse  potatoes. 
Filets    migion    de    toeuf — small    filet    steaks;     see 
Tournedos;    sauces,    garnitures. 

—  a    la    Bernhardi;    with    madeire    sauce,    quenelles, 

vegetables. 

—  a    la    Bohemienne:    with    Madeira    sauce,    noodles, 

cheese    and    cream. 

—  a    la    Brown ;    madeire    sauce,    olives,    mushrooms, 

artichokes. 

—  a     la     Cardinalice;     stuffed    with    duxelle,     sweet 

peppers,    truffle    sauce. 

—  a    la    Cherron;    with    madeire    sauce,    artichokes, 

on   toast   with   tomatoes,    peas. 
• — a  la  Lorrilard;    on  toast  with  truffles,  vegetables, 
lettuces. 

—  a    la    Maitre    d' Hotel;    with    herb    butter. 

—  a  la  Parisienne ;  with  madeira,  truffle,  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Pompadour:    with  madeira   on  toast,    truffles, 

mushrooms,    bearnaise,    artichokes. 

—  a    la    Riche;     broiled,     bearnaise,     truffles,     straw 

potatoes. 

—  a  la  Richmond;   with  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Roussel;    saute,   artichoke  bottom  with  stuff- 

ed mushrooms. 

—  Grosse   piece;    large  piece;    ornamental  piece,   un- 

cut piece,    to   be   carved. 

—  a    la    Fabert;    with   ragout    of    sweet    breads. 

—  Rosbif    a    la    jussienne ;    with    stuffed    lettuce. 

—  Rosbif   a   la  Lafontaine;    w.   vegttables   &   onions. 

—  Hash    a    la     Tambour;     with    puree    of    potatoes 

gratines. 

—  a  la  Steeplechase;  with  cold  vegetables. 

—  Tenderloin;       Lendenmuskelstiick;       see       sauces, 

garnitures ;    tournedos. 

—  Tenderloin    a    la     Standon;     with     onions,     white 

wine,    cucumbers,    Spanish    sauce. 

—  a    I'Hoteliere;    with    cream    sauce. 

—  a  la  Mirabeau;   broiled  with  garlic   sauce. 


Filet-mignon 21 Potted  Beef 

—  a    la    Nemours;    forced,    breaded,    white    sauee. 

—  a    la    Nivernaise ;    with    poached    eggs    and   mush!"- 

room    sauce. 

—  Tetine ;    the    beef-udder. 

—  Fricandeau    of    beef;    lean    beef,    larded,    cloves, 

all-spice,  mace,  broth,  sherry,  parsley,  sweet, 
herbs,  onions ;  sauce  reduced  to  glaze ;  served 
with   tomatoe    sauce. 

—  Fricasse    of    beef;    forequarter    fried    15    minutes, 

flour  and  hot  fat  mixed  with  hot  juice  of  meat; 
served  with  apple  sauce. 

—  Fricasse  ai  cold  roasted  beef;   sliced  thin,  onions, 

parsley,  butter,  stock,  simmered  with  some 
vinegar,    egg-yolk    and    port-wine. 

—  Fried   Hamburg    steak   with    Russian    sauce;    lean 

beef,  chopped  fine,  shallots,  eggs,  nutmeg  mix- 
ed,  rolled  in  bread  crumbs  and  fried. 

—  Frizzled  beef ;    flour  and   cream   in   brown  butter,. 

thinly   sliced  cold  or   salted  beef   added. 

—  Hamburg  steak;    (1)    slice  of  steak  beaten,  a  few 

fried  onions  minced  in  butter  spread  over  meat, 
folded  and  pounded  into  meeat,  then  broiled. 
(2)  chopped  tender  beef  with  nutmeg  formed 
into  steak,  garnished  with  egg-yolk,  shallots, 
capers,    parsley    and    anchovies. 

—  Hung  beef;    salted   dried,   hung  up  four  days   till 

tender,  rubbed  with  sugar,  saltpeter,  pepper, 
all-spice,  rolled  tight  in  cloth,  hung  up  in  warm, 
place  14  days  till  hard, 
• — Macedoine  of  beef;  cut  up  rump  steak,  cutlet 
shape,  larded,  braised  with  stock,  sliced  car- 
rots and  turnips  added  with  peas,  beans,  asr 
paragus,  cauliflower,  boiled  with  sauce  of  but- 
ter, flour  and  milk  on  mixed  vegetables ;  these 
in  centre  of  dish,  cutlets  around,  sauce  on 
dish. 

—  Minced     beef     a    I'Espagnole;     cold    beef     sliced, 

saute  in  oil,  shallots,  onions,  green  peppers^ 
Spanish   sauce,    strewn   with   parsley. 

—  Minced  beef  a  la  Portugaise;  roast  beef,   chopped 

fine,  stewed  with  brown  sauce,  timbale  of 
rice    and  roasted   tomatoes. 

—  Miroton    of    beef;     sliced    up    cold    boiled    beef» 

browned,    onions    on    top,    baked. 

—  Potted  beef;  beef  free  from  fat  and  bone,  pound- 

ed soft,  spiced,  after  being  simmered  in  Bain- 
Marie ;    covered    with    butter,    Kept    in    jars. 


IPressed  Beef  22  Beer  Caudle 

—  Pressed  beef;  pickled  beef,  boiled,  cooked  in 
pickle,  again  boiled  with  vinegar  and  vege- 
tables,   then   pressed;    served    cold   and    glazed, 

-—Roast  baron  of  beef;  the  baron  usually  includes 
2  rumbs,  the  two  sirloins  and  an  extra  rib 
on    each    side ;    much   like    a    saddle   of   mutton. 

-~— Roast  fillet  of  beef  polonaise;  larded,  roasted 
on  spit,  after  being  soaked  in  marinade,  bast- 
ed with  marinade  and  sour  cream;  garnished 
with  stuffed  mushrooms ;  served  with  own 
sauce. 

-'=-^.Roast  sirloin  Mirabeau;  anchovies,  brown  sauce, 
capres,    taragon, 

^ — Rop.st  Sirloin  Steak  Duchesse ;  larded,  roasted  on 
pork  and  vegetables,  sauce  of  gravy  and  broth. 

-^ —  Rolled  fillet  as  hare ;  soaked  in  port- wine  and 
vinegar. 

■^ — Rump  beef  Portugaise;  one  thick,  one  thin  piece, 
stuffed  with  mixture  of  chestnuts,  onions  and 
ai^chovies,  herbs,  garniture,  sliced  lemon  and 
fried  oysters;  own  gravy  with  white  wine  and 
broth. 

'—Savoury  beef  steak;  steak  covered  with  mixture 
of  .  Vread  crumbs  and  sweet  herbs,  chopped 
parsley,    rolled    up,    tied,    baked,    brown    gravy 

-'= — Smoked  beef  in  cream;  minced,  stewed  in  but 
ter,    cream   and   bechamel    sauce. 

-—Smoked  Hamburg  beef;    rump,   loin  ribs  or  pris 
ketj     first     salted,     soaked    in    water    to     boil 
gravy;    served   with    spinach. 
^=— Pot  roast  beef;    rump,    flank,    or  round,   browned 

cooked  very  tender;    serve   hot   or   cold. 
-^ — Tough    beef,    made    tender;     soak    in    water    and 

vinegar,    drain  before    cooking. 
-■^ — Tournedos  of  beef;  half-inch  thick  slices  of  fillet, 
broiled;    served    on    slices    of    bread    soaked   in 
fat;    pee    letter    ''T.'' 
-<— Vol- au- vent   of  beef  tendons;    vol-au-vent   case   of 
puff  paste,  filled  with  tendons,  soaked  in  warm 
water  and  boiled,    cut  up,    covered  with  becha- 
mel   sauce,    covered   with   button   mushrooms. 
^eer — pale  and  stout;  pale-ale,  made  of  malt,  slight- 
ly dried;    stout  is  made  of  roasted  malt;   porter 
a   mixture   of   both. 
^eer    caudle — mixture    of    oatmeal,    beer,    sugar,    all- 
spice  and   ginger,    cooked. 


Beer  Soup 23 Buiscuita 

Beer  soup — beer  and  port-wine  or  claret,  cinnamott 
and  cloves  and  sugar,  boiled;  served  over  water- 
soaked  and  fried  bread;   brocken  up;   croutons. 

Beet-ioot — vegetable  of  the  Beta-genus;  used  io. 
pickles,  salads,  ornaments  and  buttered  andi 
saute   as    a   vegetable. 

Beet-root-poitvine — brown  thickening,  onions,  iaix«- 
ed    spice,    beet-root,    and   vinegar   stewed. 

Beet-root  leaves — employed  like  spinach. 

Beignets — french   term   for   fritters. 

Belgian    beer — has    a    vinous    flavor;    Lambic,    Fara,^. 

Belgian  puree — made  principally  of  Brussels  sprouts^ 

Beacoolaii  tea — of   the   Malayan   Islands ;    refreshings 

Benedictine — liquor,   made  at  Abbey  of  Fecamp,   Fr^ 

Benzoin — a  gum-raisin,  used  for  flavoring  cordiala 
and   liquors. 

Bequet — lower  jaw   of   pig   smoked. 

Be.gpmot    oil — from    rind    of    bergamot    orange. 

Berzille — a  meagre  soup,  made  of  milk,  water^ 
broken   up   bread   and   roux. 

Nightcap — Scotch  or  Irish  whiskey,  sugar,  lemoO) 
peel,    red    currant-jelly    and    hot    water;    a    grog^ 

Bezin — stew    of    beef    and   pearl    barley. 

Biffins — partly  dried  and  baked  apples. 

Bigarade — French  term  for  Seville  or  bitter  orange^ 

Bigarre — French    term    for    parti-colored. 

Bigos — Polish ;  sourcrout  laj'ers  with  stewed  meat^ 
stewed   with   gravy,   hot   or   cold. 

Bilberriers — blue   berries,    not   very   tasty. 

Bill    of   fare — Menu. 

Bird's  nest  soup — 1  nest  gives  1  pint  soup;  gela- 
tinous construction,  no  special  flavor,  fowl'at 
juice  usually  added;   washed  and  cooked  8  hours, 

Biscotins — crisp    buiscuits. 

Buiscuits — bis-twice;  cuits,  cooked,  a  brittle  or- 
crisp   paste. 

—  American  buiscuits;  made  of  corn-flour,  egga^ 
sugar   and   almonds.  ' 

—  Frozen    buiscuits    or    glaze;    see    Tortoni,    in    stift 

paper  case. 

—  Lady's  finger;    shape   of  finger,   made   of  butter^ 

flour,    sugar   and  lemon. 

—  Savoury    buiscuits    a     la    Melton;     flour,     cheese^ 

ham,    cayenne,   pepper,   baked;    served  hot. 

—  Savoy    buiscuits;    eggs,    sugar,    lemon    peel    in    & 

batter,    white    of    egg,    flour ;    long    shape. 

—  Ship   or   sea   buiscuit ;    water   and   flour   only. 


Buiscuits  24  Black-fish 

—  Tortoni  buiscuit ;   frozen  buiscuit  in  round  paper 

case;  powdered  maccaroons  on  top,  egg-yolk, 
maraskino,  kirsh,  beaten  together,  heated  and 
cooled;    vanilla    cream    added   and   frozen. 

—  Washington    buiscuits ;    lard,  ^  buiscuit    flour,    am- 

monia, made  in  a  dough  with  milk,  baked  with 
currants    on    top. 

—  York    buiscuits;    butter,    flour,    sugar    and   milk; 

dough    cut   in  ribbons   and  baked. 

Bishop    (a   drink) — of   spiced   wines;    served   hot. 

Lawn  sleeve — about  the  same  as  Bishop,  but  with 
calfs-foot   jelly. 

Bisk — a  soup,  made  of  broth,  pounded  shell-fish,  or 
gray-fish,   or  game  or  minced-fish,  very  thick. 

Bismarks — an  American  dough-nut  with  stewed  fruit 
inside. 

Bisque — french  term  for  Bisk. 

Bitters — tonics  or  stomachics,  used  in  dashes  for 
drinks   to   give   them  tonic, 

Amazon  bitters — made  of  proof-spirit,  peruvian 
bark,  calisaya-bark,  calamus-root,  orange-peel, 
spice  and  sandal-wood;  orange-caramel  coloring, 
dark    red   tint. 

Bitters  swittzle — cold  water,  crushed  ice,  orange- 
bitters,  brandy  and  sugar  beaten  to  froth;  a 
beaten   egg  is   added   some   times. 

Peruvian   bitters — made    mostly    of   peruvian   bark. 

Bittock  a  la  Eusse — chopped  fillet  of  beef,  marrow, 
bread  crumbs,    sour   cream   sauce. 

Black  bass — see  bass. 

Blackberries — raspberrie    species. 

Blackberrie      short-cake — a      spongy-cake,      cut      in 

squares,   two  layers  made  of  cake,  blackberries 

and     whipped     cream,     decorated    with    whipped 

cream;    served  with  plain   cream  and  fine  sugar. 

Blackbird  or  merle — good  in  pies;    a   small  bird. 

Blackcock,  Coq  de  Bruyere — Birkhahn,  a  grouse 
species;  favorite  haunts  are  moors;  in  season 
from  Aug.  20,  to  Dec.  10;  the  two  thighs  are 
the  choice  morsels;  50  minutes  to  roast;  serve 
with  jelly,  gravy,  bread  crumbs,  bread  sauce 
when  roasted;    only  jelly  when  broiled. 

Black  diver — little  wild  duck;  serve  with  jelly  and 
fried  hominy  when  roasted;  jelly  only  when 
broiled. 

Black-fish — a  large  and  delicate  fish  with  black 
skin. 


Black  Puddings 25 Bologna  Sausage 

Black  puddings — bouddin  noir,  BlutwUrste,  made  of 
pigs   or   sheep's   blood  and   suet. 

Blanc,  au  blanc — French  term  for  with  white  sauce. 

Du  Blanc — the  white   of  fowl ;   breast  and  wings. 

Blanc  mange— .corrupt ;  of  blanc-manger ;  lit.,  white 
eating,  made  of  animal  jelly;  spiced  and  sweet- 
ened with   emulsion   of  almonds;    served   cold. 

Blanc-manger  Delmonico — sweet  tmd  bitter  almonds, 
soaked  in  water,  drained  and  pounded,  made  to 
almond  milk,  mixed  with  gelatine,  sugar,  vanilla 
and  frozen. 

Blanquette — name  of  a  white  sparkling  wine;  in 
cookery  applied  to  a  white  stew  of  white  meats, 
mushrooms,  morels  and  truffles;  answers  to  fri- 
cassee. 

Bleak — little   fresh   water- fish;    sprat   size. 

Blichni — a  pie,   made  of  pastry  and  fish. 

Blinis — small  meal  cakes,  eaten  in  Russia  during 
lent. 

Bloaters — smoked    herrings. 

Bloaters  a  la  Sefton — flesh  soaked  and  dried,  cheese, 
egs:ed,    bread   crumbed  and  fried. 

Blood-pudding  Marechale — broiled,  with  saute  sliced 
apples. 

Blond  de  veau — pale  stock  of  veal. 

Blue-fish — large  fish,  blue  skin;  fr.,  Dorade;  ger., 
Goldmakrele. 

Baked  blue-fish  Italienne — white  wine  and  mush- 
room liqueur,  baked  with  Spanish  sauce,  chopped 
mushrooms    and    onions;    20    minutes. 

Baked  blue-fish  Venitienne — as  above,  add  tomatoe 
and    bread-crumbs. 

Boar — french,    Pore,    german,    Eber. 

Wild-boar — french,    Sanglier,    german,    Wildschwein. 

Dressed  boar's  head,  boiled — remove  ears  and 
boil  them  separate,  head  boned  and  pickled,  flesh 
of  rabbits,  bacon  and  truffles  cut  in  squares, 
force-meat  of  rabbit,  veal  and  spice ;  stuffed  in 
head,  madeire  added  and  boiled;  then  cooled  and 
colored;   served  cold. 

Wild  boar  Italienne — flesh  first  covered  with 
cooked  pickle,  later  fried  with  hog's  lard;  crush- 
ed ginger  bread  with  stock  for  sauce,  cooked 
with  the  flesh  are  raisins  and  currants;  garniture 
of  vegetables. 

Bologna  sausage — smoked,  made  of  veal,  pork,  ham, 
beef,    goat,    bacon-fat   and    spices. 


^omT) 26 Bouillon 

Somb — mixed  ices  of  spherical  shape  and  different 
flavors. 

ISon-bons — french    term    for    sweet    meats. 

^onbonniere — box   for   sweets. 

Devilled  bones — beef  bones  preferably,  devilled  with 
mixture  of  salt,  butter,  mustard,  'dusted  with 
cayenne    and   broiled. 

-^ —  Marrow-bones ;  serve  with  butter- toast  and  mar- 
row  spoon   in   folded  napkin. 

^oned  fowl — either  a  galantine  or  in  natural  shape, 
bones    taken    out. 

^onne-bouche,  literally — good  mouth  fulls;  French, 
bouchees   or   pattees;    patties. 

Vouchees  Parisienne — pattie  of  chopped  fat  goose- 
liver,  truffles,  mushrooms,  chopped  egg-yolk, 
gelatine,  cayenne  and  salt,  bread-crumbs,  gar- 
nished with  parsley. 

borage — flower   leaves   to   flavor   claret   cups. 

Bordeaux — wines    grown    in    the    Bordelais    district. 

—  a  la  Bordelaise;  signifies  in  Bordeaux  style; 
sauce  bordelaise,   red  wine   sauce. 

Borsch — see    Barszcz. 

"Botargo — see   Boutargue. 

Bouchees — patties,     savoury    bits    of    tasty    cookery. 

Bouchees  a  I'Astor — finger  buiscuit  paste,  bean 
shaped,  filled  with  marmelade,  glazed  with  sugar; 
served  cold. 

Bouchees  a  la  Eeine — puff -paste  filled  with  salpicon 
mushooms,  truffles,  chicken  and  tongue;  serve 
hot,    Worchestershire  sauce. 

•A  la  Bouchere — lit.,  butcher's  style;  no  other  sea- 
soning but  salt  and  pepper. 

Xoudinade — french  term  for  boned  stuffed  quarter 
of  lamb  with  white  and  black  pudding,  roast, 
rich   sauce. 

Boudins — French  term  for  sausage  shaped  goods  of 
various  meats   and  fish. 

■-^ — Boudins  noir  Marechale;  broiled  with  sliced  ap- 
ples   saute. 

Bouff — German  cakes  of  eggs,  ©utter,  flour,  cur- 
rants,   raisins,    lemon-juice. 

Bouillabaise — fish-soup,  made  of  fish,  lobster,  small 
chopped  onions,  garlic,  parsley,  fennel,  pepper, 
saffron,    sliced   tomatoes    and   oil. 

Bouilli-(e) — french    for   boiled    (beef). 

Bouillie — mush. 

•Bouillon — french  for  broth. 


Boulettes  27  Breach 

Boulettes — little  balls  of  chopped  meat  or  bread" 
crumbs. 

Bouquet  garni — bunch  of  sweet  herbs  used  fot- 
flavoring    soups,    stews,    etc. 

Bourgeoise-(a  la) — lit.    citizen's    style. 

BourgulgLionne — with   Burgundy,    red  wine. 

Boutargue — the  roe  of  the  mullet  dried  and  pickled^. 

Bovril — liquid    beef    essence. 

Braising — a   combination  of   stewing  and  baking. 

Bran — the    inner    husk    of    grain. 

Brancimo — a    Venetian    fish,    resembles    pike. 

Brandade — dishes  made  of  cut-up  cod-fish,  in  past^ 
form. 

Brandy — eau  de  vie  ;   Branntwein. 

Brandy-shrub — lemon- juice,  orange- juice  and  peel;. 
Brandj',    dissolve    in   water,    macerate. 

Brawn — head   of  pig,    chopped,    spiced,   pressed. 

Brazil-nuts — an  oily  nut,   of  hazelnut  flavor. 

Bread — American,  loaf  of  white  bread,  squaref 
shaped. 

Boston  brown  bread — small,  round  loafs  of  sweet- 
ish taste,  made  of  corn  flour,  rye  meal,  pumpkin, 
and    molasses. 

Gluten   bread — small    square    loafs    of   greyish    color.. 

Graham  bread — square,  medium  sized  loafs  of  light 
grey    color;    the    bran    visible    on    the    cut. 

Astor    house    rolls — round,    flat    rolls,    two    together;. 

French    dinner    rolls — long    rectangular,    very    erisp^ 

French  breakfast  rolls — milk  rolls  with  a  separat- 
ing  cut   in   the   middle. 

Vienna  rolls — a  rolled  up  triangle  of  paste. 

Baden-Baden  bread  pudding — a  pudding  of  breads 
eggs,   raisins  boiled  in  cloth ;   served  with  wine  so. 

Bread  croustade  a  la  Reine — croustade  of  household 
bread,  scooped  and  fried  in  lard,  filled  witk 
puree    of    meat    or    game. 

Bread  croustade  for  fruit — bread  crust,  fried  in  fat; 
fancy    shaped    and    browned. 

Bread  crust  in  soup — toasted,  browned  in  dices  o»- 
small   squares. 

Bread  panada — fine  bread  crumbs  with  butter,. 
broth,    egg-yolk    and   minced   fowl. 

French  toast — tliin  slices  of  bread,  covered  on  botb^ 
sides    with    egg;    fried    in    fat. 

Genoa  toast — -sliced  French  roll  with  ham  and  an- 
chovies with  batter,  fried  in  lard  and  hot  ravi^ 
gote    sauce. 


'Bread 28 Brochettes 

German  toast — thick  slices  household  bread,  cover- 
ed with  egg  and  milk,  broiled;  served  hot,  red 
wine    sauce. 

'  Golden  crust — toast  with  egg  and  milk,  sugar  and 
nutmeg. 

Pulled  bread — toasted  crumb  of  bread  in  rectangu- 
lar  form. 

Savoury  toast — Harvey  sauce,  egg,  minced  meat, 
cavenne,    spread    on    dry    toast,    browned. 

Bread  fruit — spherical  fruit  of  several  pounds,  rough 
rind,  contains  starchy  pulp,  is  juicy,  sweet  and 
mellow,  usually  baked  between  stones. 

Bream — fresh  or  sea  bream,  a  fish  very  much  like 
carp. 

Bretonne    a   la — in    Britany   style ;    see    garnishes. 

Bride  cakes — ornamental  wedding  cake. 

Brie-cheese — cream  cheese,  soft,  gloutinous,  made 
in  large   rounds   |   inches  thick. 

Brill — a  flat  fish,   between  turbot  and  sole. 

Brill  boiled  a  la  Parisienne — boiled  in  white  wine, 
onion,  mushrooms,  oysters,  truffle,  fish,  quenelle, 
gray-fish. 

"Brill  a  la  Conde,  or  Conti — boiled,  white  wine,  oil, 
stock,    sweet   herbs. 

Brill  a  la  Hollandaise — boiled,  butter  sauce  with 
egg-yolks,    lemon-juice,    salt    and    pepper. 

Brill  Kavigote — broiled,  mayonnaise  sauce  with  tara- 
pon,    chervil    and   chives. 

Brill    St.    Menehould — pieces    of    boiled    brill    with 
bechamel    sauce,    covered   with   bread   and   cheese 
■    and  browned. 

Brill  au  gratin — milk  and  flour,  parsley  and  thyme, 
with  layers   of  fillet   of  brill,   baked  with   cheese. 

Brine — saturated   solution   of   salt  water. 

Brioche — french  pastry  made  of  flour,  butter,  eggs, 
very  delicate  and  spongy,  puffed,  over,  baked  in 
fluted  mould. 

Brioche   a   la   Conde — ^brioche   paste,    doubled,    filled 
with  apricot,   topped  with  fruit,   in  juice;    served 
hot. 
.  Etisotin — see    Veal. 

Brocoli — a   sub-variety   of   cauliflower. 

Brochan — Scotch    for    porridge. 

Broche — sharp  pointed  rods   of  iron  on  which  poul- 
try and  meat  are  strung  to  be  roasted  before  fire. 
^Brochettes — french  for   small   strips  of  wood,    skew- 
ers,   etc. 


B"Oglio 29 Buffet 

Brog'lio — wine    of   Tuskany. 

broiling — grilling:    on    open    fire. 

Brose — groundpulse  of  oatmeal,  rubbed  down  in 
water. 

Broth — bouillon,   a  brew  of  meat. 

Scotch  broth — soup  of  mutton,  turnips,  carrots,  on- 
ions,   celery    and    barley. 

Welsh  broth — the  same  with  pork  or  various  meats. 

Brouilles — french    term   for   mashed   or   mixed  up. 

Brousse — cheese  made  by  boiling  the  whey  of  milk. 

Brown   Betty — bread,    butter   and   apple   charlotte.- 

Browning — used  to  color  sauces,  made  of  sugar, 
butter,  portwine,  pimento  and  black  pepper, 
shallots  and  mushroom  ketchup. 

Fvuaoi.se — .iulienne    soup,     made    with    vegetables. 

Brussels  sprouts — tasty  little  vegetables  of  the 
cabbage    family. 

Brussoles — middelthing    between    stuffing    and    stew. 

Bual-  -a  kind  of  madeire  wine. 

Piubble  and  stiueak — rechauffe  of  cold  meats^and 
vegetables. 

Bucelios — a    Portuguese    white    table    wine. 

Buck — the  male  deer;  Golden  buck,  a  rarebit  with, 
a  poached  egg;  Yorkshire  buck,  the  same  with, 
bacon ;    Silver    buck,    rarebit    "with    sardines. 

Buck-bean — a   sort  of   clover,   very  bitter. 

Buckwheat — used  for  making  cakes,  grumpets  Jlnd 
gruel. 

Buckwheat  cakes — thin,  small  cakes,  made  on  a 
griddle ;  hot  s.  w.  maple  syrup. 

Buffet — a  side  board,  spread  with  wines,  viandes 
and  refreshments. 

Buffet — a  buffet  ought  to  be  spread  with  cold 
Roast,  carved,  smoked  and  marinaded  Delicates- 
sen, Patties,  Galantines,  Fishes  en  grosse  piece. — 
Salads;  as  salad  Russe,  Italienne,  Macedoine  de 
legumes,  cold  slaw.  Sandwiches  and  Canape&s, 
these  in  all  forms,  such  as  nut-sandwiches,  little 
tasty  bits  with  caviar,  goose  liver,  etc.  Little 
pains  with  patisseries,  tarts  and  tartelettes, 
cakes  and  cold  sweets.  Entremets  de  douceurs. 
Of  wine  there  should  be  light  Moselle  and 
Rhine  wine,  Lemonade,  Bowie,  Punch,  some- 
times tea ;  in  hotels  the  drinks  are  usually  left 
out.  The  arrangement  should  be  such  that  every 
dish  is  easily  reached,   small  dishes  in  front  and 


Buffet 30 Buffet 

then  going  up  as  the  dishes  grow  bigger.  Flow- 
ers and  lustres  among  the  Viands,  make  a  very 
good  eifect  and  if  possible  the  table,  or  what- 
ever is  used,  should  be  raised  in  the  centre;  per- 
haps in  terraces,  so  that  overlooking  is  made 
easy;  sometimes  a  little  stool  of  wood  is 
made  and  put  on  any  table,  the  whole  then 
cleverly  covered  with  table-clothes,  right  to  the- 
floor  with  a  green  guirlande  of  leaves  going 
around  in  mid-height,  fastened  in  graceful  curves 
with  pins.  The  guests  help  themselves  from 
piles  of  small  plates  standing  ready  with  knives, 
forks,  and  napkins.  A  carver  or  waiter  should, 
be  near  to  render  such  assistance  as  may  be  de- 
sired and  clear  away  the  soiled  plates.  The- 
best  wines  to  go  with  a  buffet  are  dessert  wines, 
such  as  Sherry,  etc.  These  instructions  apply 
practically  to  every  pic-nic;  a  pic-nic  is  noth- 
ing more  then  a  buffet  in  the  open-air. 
Wine,  beer  and  lictuor — and  how  they  should  ac- 
company the  different  courses. 
With  Hers  d'Oeuvre — dessert  wine.  Sherry,  Mar- 
ala.  etc. 
With     fish    and    oysters — white     Moselle,     Rhine, 

Bordeau,    white    Burgundy. 
With  Releve   or   grosse  piece — light  red  Bordeau, 

Burgundy   or  Italian   wine. 
With  rich  entrees — rich  wine  of  any  description; 

old    and   heavy. 
With  the  roast — champagne  should  be  given. 
After  the  roast — very  old  Bordeaux  and  Burgundy 

are   in   their   right  place. 
With   the    sweets — sweet   white   Bordeaux,    Yquem' 

or  Lacrimae   Christy. 
With  the   dessert — good  Hungarian  or  Cape  wine 

may    be    given. 
With  the   coffee — a   choice   of   liquors. 
With   vica    dislies,    such    as   lobster,    rich-fish,   etc. — 

rich   old   wine    or   Moselle    ought    to   be   served. 

The  rule  is  to  give  rich  wines  with  rich  Viands, 

to    create   harmony.      Don't   serve   dry    (bitter) 

wines    Avith    sweets,    or   heavy   Burgundys    with 

fat  grosse-pieces. 
Wine  from   the    cooler — ought   to    be    served   in   a 
napkin    so    as    not    to    spoil    anybody's    clothes; 

the   host    to    get   a   little    first   in   his    glass,    so 

he  may  taste  and  find  out  the  temperature. 


Buffet 31 Butter  Milk 

Good  old  brandy — is  best  served  in  a  broad  iced 
glass,   so   the  guest  will  find  the  whole  aroma. 

With  oysters — serve  Shablits,  a  sweet  white  Bur- 
gundy, slightly  cooled. — Serve  all  red  wines 
with  cellar  temperature ;  white  wines  slightly 
cooled. 

Buffet  Russe — on  spec,  silver  tray,  stuffed  olives, 
tomatoes,  onions,  cucumbers,  different  little  stuf- 
fed crusts,  egss,  caviar,  etc.;  not  to  be  con- 
founded with   Hors   d'Oeuvres. 

Bugne — pancake   friecj   in   oil. 

Buisson — French    for   piled,    as   a    pyramid. 

BuUaces — wild  plums. 

Bullock — ox. 

Buns — beignet,  small  sweet  cakes. 

Buonbocconi — french-bonne-bouche,  tasty  little  sup- 
per   dishes,    as   patties,    etc. 

Burdwan — hash  or  ragout,    Indian. 

Burgoo — oatmeal   pudding. 

Burgundy — french  red  wine,  acid  taste,  full  grape 
flavor. 

Burnet — a    sweet   herb,    for   salads   and   sauces. 

Burt — a  flat-fish  of  turbot  kind. 

Burtas — Indian  for  mashed. 

Buseca — Italian  for  tribe  and  other  internal  parts 
of  animals. 

Bustards — bird   of  ostrich   species. 

Butter— an  oily  substance,  obtained  from  milk  by 
churning. 

Butter,  Maitre  d' Hotel — butter,  chopped  parsley, 
salt,  white  pepper,   lemon-juice. 

—  Black   butter    sauce;    butter   heated,    parsley   and 

vinegar. 

—  Drawn  butter  sauce ;   flour  added  to  butter  while 

stirring,    moistened  with   water;    seasoned  with 
pepper    and    salt,     thickened,     lemon-juice    and 
sieved. 
Butter  Jack — butter,  sugar,  sherry,  eggs ;  served  hot. 
Butter,   Scotch — see  taffey. 

Butter  soup — carrots,  turnips,  onions,  sweet  herbs, 
celery,  strained,  butter  beaten  creamy,  eggs  and 
flour. 

—  Spanish  butter;    rose   water  and   icing-glass,   bit- 

ter   almonds,     egg-yolks     and    cream,     moulded 
and    served   hot. 
Butter    milk — fluid    which     remains    in    the    churn, 
after  butter   nas   been  removed   from   cream. 


Butter  Nnt 32 Cakes 

Butter  nut  fruit — white  walnut,  oily  flavorless  kernel 
Butyric  acid — acid  from  rancid  butter,   injurious. 

Cabbages — esculent  vegetables;  Kraut-  und  Kohl- 
Arten. 

—  American    slaw;     cold,    chopped    up,    cold    boiled 

cabbage,    french    dressing. 

Cabbage  cake — cabbage  boiled,  pressed,  chopped  up 
in  layers  with  meat,  in  pie  dish,  baked  with 
bacon. 

Cabbage  a  la  Mode — boiled  cabbage,  cold  roast 
chicken,  pork  and  onion  chopped  with  rice  filled 
between  the  leaves,  fried  till  brown,  gravy  of 
stock  and  flour. 

Dolmas  of  cabbage — Grecian  st3"le ;  boiled  leaves 
stuffed  with  farce  of  eggs.  Mutton,  bacon, 
bread  crumbs,  minced,  mushrooms,  parsley,  risot- 
to,  tomato   and   glazed. 

Timbale  of  cabbage — timbale  form  with  alternative 
layers  of  cabbage  and  farce  of  sausage,  meat, 
epp-s,    crumbs,    onions,    baked    with    brown    sauce. 

Cabrillons — cheese  made  of  goat's  milk. 

Cafe    au    lait — coffee    and    hot    milk,    mixed. 

Cafe  kirsh — in  parfait  glass,  white  of  egg,  coffee 
and  kirsh,   frappe. 

Caisses — French    for    paper    cases    for    delicacies. 

Cakes — a   small   mass   of   dough  baked;    see   Pastry. 

—  Aberfrau    cakes ;     warmed    butter    beaten    up    to 

cream,  flour  sugar  and  milk. 
- — Admiral   cakes:    boat   shaped,    sponge   cake,   mixed 
chocolate   ising,    hollowed   out,    with   rigging    of 
paste,    filled    with    apricot    marmelade,    vanilla 
ice, 

—  Adrian    cakes;    small    cakes    filled    with    whipped 

cream,  one  on  top  of  the  other,  chocolate  ising. 

—  Albany  cakes ;  plain  cakes  of  batter. 

—  Albert  cakes;    square  cakes  with  currants. 

—  Ames    cakes ;    sugar    iced    cakes,    baked    between 

two    sheets. 

—  Angels  bread;  large  square  cake,  vanilla  flavored, 

icing  of  grated  cocoanut. 

—  Angels    cake;    the    same    of    cake    dough. 

—  Athole     cakes;     corn-flour,     candied     peel,     patty 

shaped, 

—  Aurelian  cakes;  of  rice  and  brandy,  almond  flavor. 

—  Balloon  cake;   of  bun  dough,  proved,   sugar  icing. 


Cakes 33 Cakes 

—  Balmoral     cake — with     caraway     seeds     in    wavy 

mould. 

—  Bath    cake ;     dough    with    nutmeg    and    caraway 

seeds. 

—  Beaulieu  cake;   rich  cake,  with  cloves,  cinnamon, 

nutmeg   and  white  wine. 

—  Beauvillier  cake ;    dough  with  sweet  almonds  and 

ground   rice,    kirsh   icing. 

—  Black  cakes;   dough  with  mollasses,  brandy,  wine 

spices,   diyed  currants  and  citron  peel. 

—  Bonnefeades    cakes;    puff   paste,    cinnamon,    rolled 

up  and   sliced. 

—  Bonnet  cakes;   paste  fried  in  boiled  lard;   served 

hot. 

—  Bordeaux    cake ;    paste    with    wine    and    almonds, 

baked  in  round  hoot),  covered  with  jam  or  mar- 
melade    and    rebuild. 

—  Brighton    cakes;    butter,    sugar,    milk    and    flour, 

baked  in    shallow  tins. 

—  Bristol   cakes;   the   same  with   sultana  raisins. 

—  Brunswick    cakes ;    butter,    sugar,    eggs,    milk   and 

flour,   light  dough,  raisins  and  currants. 

—  Buttercup    cakes ;     small    rounds    of    cake    dough, 

yellow    icing,    decorated    candied   fruit. 

—  Canadian   cakes ;    cake   dough   with   maizena,    cur- 

rants  and   brandy. 

—  Capital     cake ;     flour,     cream    of    tartare,     butter, 

sugar,    eggs,    milk ;    flavored   with    nutmeg. 

—  Chantilly    cake;     sugar    whisked    with    eggs    and 

flour,     baked,     filled     with     flavored     whipped 
cream. 

—  Clay   cake;    baked   in   layers. 

—  Colchester   cakes;    sugar   with   white   of   egg   and 

flour,    baked    in    case. 

—  Conde  cake;  puff  paste  masked  with  almond  paste. 

—  Confederate  cake;   common  dough  in  oblong  shape. 

—  Corporation     cake ;     dough     with    nutmeg,     lemon 

peel,    currants    and    brandy;    small    cakes. 

—  d'Artois     parisienne ;     short     paste     with  _  apricot 

and   apple   marmelade,    covered  with   sliced  ap- 
ples,  masked  with   vanilla   syrup. 

—  Cussy    cake ;    dough   with    almonds   and  rice,    sev- 

eral oh  top  of  others,  masked  with  marmelade. 

—  Dauphin   cakes ;    dome-shaped,    apricot  marmelade, 

masked   with   meringue,    apricot    sauce. 


Cakes 34 Cakes 

—  Delille    cakes;    ornamental    cakes,    five    on   top    of 

other,  orange  and  pistache  icing,  decorated 
"with  glazed  fruit. 

—  Demon     cakes;     dough     with,     molasses,     nutmeg, 

brandy,  ginger  and  cinnamon;  currants  and 
fruit. 

—  Derby  cake ;   small  moulds,  honey  water  and  cur- 

rants   in    dough. 

—  Dream    cakes ;     three    on    top    of    other,     almond 

flavored,  grated  cocoanut,  lemon,  rice  and  van- 
illa,   frosted. 

—  Duchesse   cake ;   dough  with  pounded  maccaroons, 

currants,  angelica,  orange  flowers,  glazed  cher- 
ries,   small  moulds;    served  hot. 

—  Dundee  cakes ;   hot  or  cold,   covered  with  confits. 

—  Election   cakes ;    spongy   cake,    eaten   quite   fresh, 

cinnamon  and  mace. 
— ■  Feather  cake ;  loave  shaped,   cream  of  tartare. 

—  Federal     cake ;     milk,     wine     and     brandy,     fruit 

and  spice. 
— -Flame    cake;    soaked   in   brandy;    served    on   fire. 

—  Flannel  cake ;    small  cakes   of  thick  batter,  baked 

on    grid-iron,    maple-syrup. 
— ■  Frescati    cakes ;    large   savoy   cake,   baked,   cut   in 
slices,    set    together    in    round    form   like    brick 
wall,  halfed  apples  and  glazed  with  marmelade. 

—  Griddle    cakes ;    of    sweet   butter   milk ;    baked    on 

griddle ;    served  with   maple    syrup. 

—  Heloise   cakes;    oval  flat   cakes   of  whipped  cream 

and    noyeaux,    frozen,    custard   of    egg-yolk   and 
gelatine,    cherries. 
■; —  Hermits ;    dough    with    cinnamon    and    cloves    and 
raisins,    |   inch  thick   and  round. 

—  Imperial  cake ;    of  beaten  egg  and  soaked  French 

roll-crumbs,  currants,  raisins,  almonds,  mixed 
candied  peel,  sugar-icing  and  dusted  with 
bread    crumbs. 

—  Indian    cake;    sponge    cake,    dough    baked, _  sliced, 

masked  with  jelly  and  maraschino;  slices  on 
each  other  masked  again  with  meringue,  dried 
in    slow    oven. 

—  Johnny  cake ;     Indian    corn    meal ;    served    hot. 

—  Josephine    cake;     dough    with    currants,    madeire 

and  baked. 

—  Jubilee  cake ;   cream  of  tartare,  bic.  of  soda,  but- 

ter, castor  sugar,  eggs  and  churned  milk  in  a 
batter   and   baked. 


Cakes 35 Cakes 

—  Madeleine  cakes ;   lemon,   sugar,   eggs  and  brandy, 

dough ;  a  soft  small  cake  made  in  oval,  fluted 
mould;    used    for    tea    parties,    a    pastry. 

—  Manon     cakes;     two     layers    of    puff    paste    with 

apricot   marmelade   in   middle. 

—  Manque    cake   with   rum;    butter,    sugar,    almonds, 

Jamaica  rum,  egg-yolks  and  whipped  white  of 
egg,    covered    with    almond    mixture. 

—  Mazarin  cake;    cake   soaked  in   a  mixture  of  rum 

and  syrup,  covered  with  almonds;  sauce 
sabayon. 

—  Meringue   cake;    sponge   cake,   made  of  the  finest 

castor  sugar  and  beaten  white  of  egg,  butter, 
milk   and  flour,    covered  with   meringue. 

—  Mille-feuille   cakes;    rich   puff  paste   cut   in   many 

pieces, -baked,  centre  filled  with  jam  and  served 
several    on    top    of    other. 

—  Mousseline      cake ;      flour,      sugar,      orange-flower- 

water,  potatoe  flour,  whipped  eggs,  the  cake 
scooped  out  on  top  and  filled  with  mixture 
of  strawberry  and  raspberry  puree  and  curacao, 
.  stiffened  with  eggs  and  formed  to  pineapple 
shape   on   top   of   cake. 

—  Napoleon    cake;    two    layers    of    puff    paste    with 

pastry  cream  in  middle,  baked  and  glazed; 
served   hot    or   cold. 

—  Pound  cake;    sugar,   butter,   eggs,  flour,  mace  and 

nutmeg,  made  in  a  dough,  baked  in  quick  oven. 

—  Ramazan    cakes;    ground    rice,    milk    and    sugar; 

cakes   about  an  inch   thick. 

—  Royal  cakes    ;raisins  and  maraschino,  vanilla  and 

sugar,  flour  and  eggs,  baked  in  mould  and 
decorated   with    candied    peel. 

—  St.    Honoree    cakes;     choux    paste,     oranges    and 

Malaga  grapes,  apple  marmelade  with  small 
choux  and  thick  syrup  formed  in  crown  shape, 
the  crown  filled  with  a.  mixture  of  pounded 
maccaroon,  whipped  egg,  kirsh  and  brandy, 
decorated. 

—  Sand   cake;    a    cake   of  about    two   inch   thickness 

and   soft   sandy   character. 

—  Savai'in   cake ;    a   cake   very  much   like   the  Baba, 

with  whom  it  is  very  often  conf oundet ;  a  very 
spongy  cake  made  with  plenty  rum ;  served 
either  hot   or   cold. 

—  Short    cakes ;    a    plain    cake    made    of   flour,    eggs, 

butter,   milk  and  sugar. 


Cakes 36 Calf  s  Head 

—  Souffle    cakes;    eggs,    castor    sugar,    ratafias,    po- 

tato-flour, candied,  orange,  flour,  beaten  to- 
gether and  baked,  covered  with  a  maraschino 
custard;     served    hot. 

Calalou  a  I'Orientale — boiled  gumbos  and  french 
beans,  esrg-plants,  tomatoes  and  sweet  peppers, 
cooked  in  oil  with  cayenne,  chopped  parsley  and 
garlic. 

Calf's  braiiis  a  la  Poulette,  (boilei) — butter  melted 
with  broth  and  flour,  water,  madeira,  onions  and 
mushrooms,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper;  boiled 
.with  the  calf's  brains,  egg  added  to  the  sauce 
and  a   little   juice  of   lemon   and   served  very  hot. 

Calf's  brains  en  matelotte — small  onions,  butter 
and  flour  fried  brown,  red  wine,  broth,  salt  and 
pepper,  boiled  to  a  sauce.  The  brains  garnished 
with    cut-up    mushrooms    and    sauce    poured    over. 

Call's  brains  Kambuillet — white  sauce  with  mush- 
rooms. 

—  Cromesquis    of    calf's    brains;    brown    sauce    with 

madeira  and  glaze  cooked  with  cut-up  calf's 
brains,  mushrooms  and  tongue :  cooled,  formed 
in  corks,  rolled  in  batter,  fried  in  lard  and 
served  with  parsley. 

• — Croquette  of  calf's  brains;  chopped  up  brains 
and  bread-crumbs,  mashed  with  parsley  and 
eggs,  shaped  like  sausages  fried  in  lard  or 
butter  to  yellow  color;  served  with  cream 
sauce. 

Calf's  chitterlings  or  chaudron — ripped  open  and 
cleaned    entrails. 

Calf's  feet — from  them  a  very  nourishing  jelly  is 
obtained. 

—  Boiled  calfs  feet  a  la  poulette;  boiled  and  sauce 

made  of  german  sauce,  butter,  lemon,  parsley; 
a  whitish  sauce;  served  by  pouring  over  the 
meat. 

—  Crepinette  of   calf's  feet;   boned,   cut-up  in   small 

pieces  with  truffles,  steeped  with  madeira,  mix- 
ed with  raw  pork  and  broiled. 

—  Fricasse    of    calf's    feet;    simmered    in    milk    and 

water,   boned,   dipped  in  egg-yolk,   covered  with 

bread-crumbs    and    fried    brown;     served    with 

white  sauce. 

Calf's    head — cleaned    thoroughly    by    soakening    in 

hot  water,   scalded,   bones  cut  down  and  eyes  re- 


Calf's  Head 37 Calf  s  Liver 

moved,    brains    and   tongue   removed   and   handled 
separately. 

Calf's  head  bigarre — bacon  and  beef -suet,  spices, 
boiled  with  the  head,  dipped  in  egg-yolk  and 
bread-crumb,  baked;  served  with  tomatoe  or 
Italian    sauce. 

Calf's  head  a  la  Financiere — prepared  as  for  a  rag- 
out, meat  cut  in  dices ;  served  on  forcemeat,  made 
of  trimmings,  olives  and  mushrooms,  cock's 
combs  and  truffles,    financiere   sauce. 

Calf's  head  a  la  Luxemburg — boiled  and  drained, 
stuffed  with  forcemeat,  baked;  served  with  brown 
sauce   and  mushrooms. 

Calf's  head  Royale — served  on  pain  of  forcemeat, 
dices  of  the  head  with  cock's  combs  and  mush- 
rooms,   bread-croutons   and   truffles. 

Calf's  head  en  tortue — meat  cut  in  small  pieces, 
sherry,  stock,  eggs,  gherkins,  veal  forcemeat  and 
seasoning,  fried  bread  croutons;  served  with 
brown   sauce. 

Broiled  calf's  kidneys  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel — cut 
in  halves  lengthwise,  stuck  on  wooden  pin,  broil- 
ed;   served   on  Maitre   d'Hotel. 

Calf's    kidneys    a    la    Bretonne — sliced;     served    on 

browned    chopped    onions    and    brown    sauce. 
. —  Croquette  of  calfs  kidneys;   minced,   covered  with 
bread    crumb    and    egg-yolk,    ball    shaped    and 
fried,  fried  parsley. 

Calf's  liver  brochette — sliced  thin  with  alternate 
slices  of  bacon  on  skewer;  served  on  butter 
toast  with  brown  gravy  or  maitre  d' hotel. 

Calf's  liver  Bourgeoise — braised  with  carrots,  on- 
ions   and   gravy. 

Calf's  liver  a  la  Francaise — sliced,  chopped  mush- 
rooms, white  wine,  parsley,  olive  oil  and  shallot; 
served  with  boiled  gravy  and  bacon  poured  over. 

Calf's  liver  a  I'ltalienne^sliced,  cooked  with  bacon 
in  slices,   olive  oil  and  white  wine. 

Calf's  lix'er  a  la  Milanaise — cut  in  slices,  dredged 
with  flour,  dipped  in  egg,  fried  in  lard;  served 
with  lemon. 

Calf's  liver  pain  or  cake— liver  worked  into  force- 
meat;   served   with    madeira    sauce. 

Calf's  liver  rolls — cut  in  long  slices,  stuffed  with 
sausage-meat,  browned,  baked  in  earthen  dish 
with  potatoes;   served  with  brown  sauce. 


Calf's  Liver 38 Canapes 

Calf's  liver  saute  a  la  Provencale — stewed  a  I'lta- 
lienne,    with    garlic    and    lemon- juice. 

Calf's  liver  souflae — cut  in  slices,  made  into  a  farce- 
meat  with  madeira,  baked  in  souffle  pan;  served 
very   hot. 

—  calloped    calf's    liver;     cut    in    slices,    hoiled    in 

broth;  served  in  sauce,  made  of  butter,  flour 
and   the   gravy. 

—  Stewed  calf's  liver  a  la  Bourgeoise;   larded,   stew- 

ed with  seasoning,   carrots  and  shredded  pork; 
served  with   own  sauce  and  onions. 
' — Stewed    calf's    liver    a    I'ltalienne;    cut    in    small 
pieces,    stewed    with    white    wine    and    Spanish 
sauce    and    chopped   mushrooms. 

—  Terrine    of    calf's    liver    a    la    Provencale;    cut    in 

slices,  fried  in  bacon-fat,  chopped  onions,  truf- 
fles, mushrooms,  sweet  herbs  and  spices,  boiled 
with  madeira,  cooled,  pounded,  mixed  with  fresh 
bacon,  ham  and  bacon  cut  in  dices  with  herbs 
and  baked;  served  cold  with  croutons  of  spice- 
jelly. 
Calf's    pluck — consists    of    liver,    lights    and    heart. 

—  Cold   cafl's   tongue   a  la  Macedoine;    cold  tongue; 

served  in  halves  with  jelly,  tartare  sauce  and 
a   Macedoine   of   all  vegetables. 

Calisson — French  sweet  meat  (Aix  la  Chapelle)  ; 
Aachener  Printen. 

Callebogus — spruce   beer  with   added   spirit. 

Callou — a    palm-wine. 

Tain  so — a   wine   of  the   Piemont. 

Camembert — a    very   rich    cream    cheese. 

Canapees — dainty  and  tasty  little  jnorsels ;  resemb- 
ling in  a  way,  (see  Hors  d'Oeuvres)  our  sand- 
wiches. 

Canapes  a  la  Danoise — toasted  brown  bread  with 
horse-raddish,  butter,  smoked  salmon,  herring- 
fillets  and  caviar. 

—  a    I'Arlequine;    toast    with    savoury   butters,    egg- 

dressing,  ham,  tongue  and  salmon,  truffles ;  all 
hashed  fine. 

—  a  la  Lorenzo ;    toast  with  spinach,    crab-meat,  let- 

tuce,   cream    sauce,    cheese    baked. 

—  a  la  Martha;    of  lobster,    baked  with  cheese. 

—  a    la    Marie    Antoinette ;     of    lobster    with    cream 

sauce,    cheese,    gratine. 

—  a    la    Printanniere;     toast    with    savoury    butter, 

with    cresson    and    egg-dressing. 


Carp 42 Cassile 

—  Petits  pains   fouree   a   la    Russe;    little  paste-rolls 

stuffed   with    caviar,    chervil. 

—  a    la    Windsor;    on    toast    of    chicken    meat,    ham, 

tongue,     gherkins,    cheese,    butter,    spices. 

Candied  peel — lemon,  orange  and  citron  peel,  used 
to   flavor   cakes,    puddings   and   sweet   dishes. 

Candy — derived  from  Khand,  sanscript  for  sugar- 
cane ;    boiled    sugar   with    flavoring. 

—  Rook    candy:    crystallized    sugar. 

Cannelons — nouille-paste  in  the  shape  of  small 
pipes;    3   inch  long,    one-third  inch   diameter. 

Cannelons  a  la  Reine — chopped  chicken,  game,  mush- 
rooms and  truffle,  stiffened  with  german  sauce, 
rolled  in  cannelons  paste,  fried  in  warm  fat. 

Cantaloupe — a  round  melon;  served  with  fine  sugar, 
finger  bowl. 

Canning — caned,  a  mode  of  preserving  meats,  fruits 
and    vegetables. 

Canvas-bag-duck — Chesapeak  coast  and  Delaware 
bnv:  lives  principlv  on  wild  celery,  20  inches 
high,  the  back  of  the  male  is  ashy  white,  cr'ossed 
by  brocken  zig-zag  lines;  see  the  name;  served 
underdone,  only  the  breast  is  carved;  When 
roasted,  jeHy  and  fried  hominy  should  be  served, 
the  carcass  pressed,  the  blood  seasoned  on  warm 
plate  and  poured  over.  When  broiled,  serve 
with    jellj''    only. 

—  Broiled  canvas-back-duck ;    split  through  the  back 

Avithout  detaching,   broiled;    served  with  Maitre 
d' Hotel    and    red    currant    jelly. 
Capers — are     the     flower-buds     of     capparis-spinosa; 

stored  in  vinegar;    a   condiment. 
Caper-sauce — flour,     butter,     stock,     worchestershire- 

saiice    with    capers. 
Cape  wines — wines  of  Cape  colonie,  inferior  quality. 
Cappilaire — a  syrup   or  liqueur. 
Capilotade — fi-ench   term   for  hash   or   ragout. 
Capons — fr.,    Chapon;    germ.,    Kapaun;    young,    cas- 
trated,   male    fowls,    fadded    to    improve   flavor  of 
flesh.     Their  counterpart  is  the  poularde,  a  young 
hen,  from  which  the  oviducts  have  been  removed. 

—  Boiled  Capon  a  la  provencale ;   boiled  with  slices 

of  fat  bacon;    served  with  rice. 

—  Braised    capon    a    la    Finnnciere;    larded,    braised 

with    stock;    served   with    financiere    sauce   and 
a    ragout    of    foies-gras,    cock's    combs,    truffles. 


Capon 40 Cardinal 

mushrooms,    chicken    qnennelles    and    gray-fish 
on  a  bread-sockel, 
—  Braised    capons    a    la    Godard;    the    same    not 
larded  and  with  Godard  sauce. 

—  Braised    capon     a     la     Napolitaine;     stuffed    with 

chicken-quennelle  forcemeat,  hreast  masked 
with  layer  of  white  forcemeat  and  truffles ; 
served  on  fried  bread  with  garnish  of  truf- 
fles, cock's  combs,  pistachio-kernels  and  mac- 
caroni ;    veloute   or   Spanisn   sauce. 

—  Braised     capon     a     la     Chipolata ;     braised     with 

broth,  pork,   sausages,  fresh  mushrooms,  brown 
sauce,   chestnuts  and  onions. 
Capons    a    la    Turque — roasted,     stuffed    with    rice, 

veloute   sauce. 
Capon  a  la  Francaise — stewed,    onions  and  rich  stock. 
Capon    stewed    a    la    Eegence — larded,    stewed    with 

seasoning  herbs   and  vegetables   and  madeira. 
Capri — an    Italian    wine    from    the    Isle    of    Capri. 
Capsicums — Chillies  or  peppers. 
Cayenne  pepper — pounded  capsicum. 
Chilli    sauce — chopped    green    peppers    and    onions; 

boiled  with  tomatoe  and  vinegar. 
Chillis — stiiffed    and    baked    green    peppers;     stuffed 

with  sausage-meat  as  a  rule. 
Caramel — from    canna,    a    cane    and    mel,    honey;    a 

coloring    of    burnt    sugar,    also    largely   usod    for 

sweet    meats. 
Caramel    cream — a    cold    sweet    cream,    topped   with 

caramel   syrup,   made   of   eggs,    castor-sugar,   milk 

and    lemon-peel. 
Caramel     croquenbouche — fruits     dipped    in     sugar, 

boiled  to  the  crack. 
Carapulca — a  Spanish  dish  of  pork,  oil,  almonds,  etc. 
Caraway — seeds     and     oil ;     a    delicate    aromatique ; 

Kiimmel. 
Carbonade — stew,    made    with    strips    of    cold   meat, 

onion  and  garlic. 
Carbonic-acid-gas — combination    of    carbon    and    ox- 

igen,    used   to    leaven   bread   and   other   materials. 
Cardamons — seeds     of     the     cardamon-plant     are     of 

an    agreable,    but   pungent    flavour. 
Cardinal — name    given    to    dishes    of    bright    red    or 

crimson  color;    also  applied  to   drinks,   as   a    com- 
parative   rising    deg'ree    from   Bishop    to    Cardinal 

and  thence  to  Pope. 


Cardinal 41 Carp 

Cardinal  drink — boiled  claret  with  cinnamon,  cloves, 
lemon,    macp    and    all-spice;    also    served    iced. 

Cardinal  of  strawberries — moselle,  rum,  oranges, 
water    and    sugar    and    strawberries;    served    iced. 

Cardons — vesetnbles  chiefly  known  in  France,  may 
be    compared   in   taste    with    leeks   or   celery. 

Carlowitz — an   Austrian  red  wine. 

Carlsbad  water — an  aerated  water  of  purgative  char- 
acter. 

Carmelite  soup — see   soup. 

Carmine — a  beautiful  red  pigment,  composed  of  the 
dried  cochineal  insect  with  alum. 

Carnabyn — a  very  nutritious  wine,  made  from  malt 
and    meat. 

Carob— a  tree,  from  its  sweet  pods  syrup  and  spirit 
is   made. 

Carn,  Karpfen — a  fish:  averaging  a  foot  in  size;  the 
flesh   and  roe   are  highly   esteemed. 

—  Baked    carp    a    la    mariniere ;    stuffed   with    force- 

meat,   poached  in  white  wine   and   court  bouil- 
lon;  baked  and  served  with  brown  sauce. 

—  Bouchees    of    carp    soft    roes;    puff    paste    filled 

with  tho  roes  and  gray-fish  butter. 

—  Braised  carp  a  la  chef  de  cuisine ;  boned,  braised 

with    parsley    roots,    and    white    peppers,    sauce 
made    of    stock    and    draining. 
Carp     a     la     Chambord — stuffed     with     force-meat, 

poached    with    vegetables    and    white    wine;    gar- 
nished with  mushrooms,  grayfish,  quenelle,  Genoa 

sauce. 
Carp  a  la  Maitresse  d' Hotel — ^boiled  on  white  wine 

and    minced    vegetables;     served    with    the    roes 

and    butter    sauce    with    gherkins. 
Carp     en     Matelotte — mushrooms,     onions,      carrots, 

sweet  herbs,  spices,  matelotte  sauce  and  red  wine 

boiled  together. 
Carp  a  la  Paysa^ne — vegetable  julienne  with  butter 

and  oil,  garlic,  mushrooms,  tomatoes  and  saffron; 

white     wine,     carp;     served     on     bread     croutons 

stock  poured  over. 

—  Forcemeat  Carp  a  I'Ancienne;  flesh  with  egg 
worked  into  forcemeat  and  cladd  around  the 
bones,  ragout  of  roes,  mushrooms,  truffles,  gray- 
fish  tails  and  espagnol  sauce  with   madeira. 

Carp  fried  a  I'Allemande — Carp  cut  up,  breaded, 
fried;     served    in    fish    shape    with    lemons    and 


Canapes         39 Capon 

fried  parsley;    the  fish  is  marinaded  before   fry- 

in*'' 

Roasted  carp;    stuffed  with  hread-cruinb   stuffing, 

roasted;     served    with    own    gravy;     garnished 
with   lemon,    potatoe   and   mushrooms. 
—  Scalloped    Carp ;     quenelle    mixture    of    Carp    and 
eel-fish,    cut  up   in  white   thickening,    sprinkled 
bread-crumbs;     served    browned    in    shells. 
Carp   stevied   a  la  Eoi — stuffed  with  fish   forcemeat, 
poached  with   champagne   and  stock;    served  with 
fish  sauce   on  croutons. 
Carp's  roes — a   great   delicacy. 
Carrageen,  or  Irish  sea  moss — food  for  invalids. 
Carrots'— a  delicate  vegetable  of  antiseptic  qualities. 
Carrots    a   la   Maitre    d'Hotsl — thinly    sliced,    stewed 
in  broth  with  butter,   chopped  parsley  and  spices. 
Carrots    a    la    Meaagere — thinly    sliced    and    stewed 
in    broth;    served   with    a    sauce    of    flour,    butter, 
browning  and   some   of  its   liqueur. 
Carrots    a   la   Nivernaise — olive    shaped,    cooked   and 

glazed. 
Carrots    a    1' Orleans — sliced    and    blanched,     boiled 

with  sugar  and  broth,   reduced  to   glaze. 
Carrots   a  la   Poulette — sliced   and  boiled,    tossed  in 

sauce    of   butter,    flour,    eggs    and   lemon-juice. 
Carrots    in    flemish    style — boiled    with    eggs,    cream 

and  butter. 
—  Souffle    of    carrots;     sweetened    puree    of    carrots, 
eggs,    flour    and    egg    froth,    popped   in    oVen    a 
second  time  and  served  very  hot. 
Carrots     a    la    Vichy — young     carrots    cooked    with 

cream    and    parsley    and   Vichy    salts. 
Carving — to   cut-up. 
Casein — the     flesh     forming    portion    of    milk    from 

which    cheese   is   made. 
Cashew — a   nut   which   hangs   from   the   pear   shaped 
fruit    of    the    Cashew    tree;    wine    and    liquor    is 
made   from   this   nut. 
Cassareep — a     condiment    made    from    the    juice    of 

the    Cassava-root. 
Casseroles — these  are  vessels  used  in  every  kitchen, 
Casserolet — the    same    in   miniature    size. 
Cassia — the    pulp    of    the    cassia    fruit,    is    used    to 

make  an  aperient  confection. 
Cassile — a   delicate  dish,   made  from   Cassia. 


Cassina 43 Cercelle 

Cassina — the  leavees  of  the  Cassina  plant,  are  used 
to  form  a  black  drink;  used  by  Indians  as  a 
medicine. 

Cassis — a  lianor,  made  in  France,  made  from  the 
skins    of    the   black   currants. 

Cassolettes — a  sort  of  scented  sweet-meats;  culinary 
art  has  extended  the  use  to  sweet  smelling  dishes. 

Cassolette  a  la  Oastelnaudary — haricot  beans  steeped 
in  water,  preserved  leg  and  wing  of  goose 
with  fat  of  goose,  fried  with  the  beans  and  a 
small  French  saveloy,  spices  and  tomato  sauce; 
baked  with  fine  bread-crumb   &   chopped  parsley. 

Castor-sugar — see  sugar. 

Catawba — a  celebrated  wine  manufactured  in  the 
United    States. 

Cat-fish — there  are  sweet  water  and  sea  cat-fish; 
grows    to    great    size. 

Catsup — see   Ketchup. 

Caucasian  wines — being  used  chiefly  for  making 
brandy. 

Caudle— oatmeal  or  any  other  gruel,  sweetened  and 
enrichened  by   spices  and  wine. 

Cauliflowers — fr.,  Chous-fleurs;  ger.,  Blumenkohl;  a 
fine  species  of  cabbage;   delicate  vegetable,  white. 

Cauliflower  au  gratin — baked  with   cheese. 

Cauliflower  a  la  Polonaise — boiled  with  butter,  egg- 
yolks  and  bread   crumbs. 

Caviar — a  preparation  from  the  roe  of  the  stur- 
geon; serve  with  toast,  chopped  onion,  white 
and  yolk  of  egg,  parsley  and  lemon;  serve  toast 
first. 

Caviar — must  always  be  served  before  anything  else. 

Cayenne-— see    Capsicums. 

Cecils — fried  balls  of  savoury  minced  meat. 

Cedrat — see    Citron. 

Celeriac — a  variety  of  celery  with  a  turnip  shaped 
root,  which  is  boiled,  sliced  and  eaten,  mostly 
as   a    salad  with   french   dressing;    served   cold. 

Celery — an  aromatique  plant  of  the  same  race  as 
*  the  parsley;  used  as  a  flavoring,  vegetable, 
relish  or  salad;  serve  with  extra  salt-cellar  in 
case   of   relish. 

Cellulose — the    woody    fibre    of    vegetable. 

Centerba — a  liqueur  manufactured  from  many  herbs. 

Cepes — a    kind    of   mushroom   found    in   France. 

Cercelles — French  term  for  teal-duck. 


Cervelas  44  Charlotte 

Cervelas — corrupt  english  term  for  Savelois;  a 
sausage. 

Cliablis — a    white    "burgundy    wine. 

Chablis-cup — boiling  water  and  sugar,  iced,  sherry, 
Chablis    and  lemon-peel. 

Chach — an  Indian   drink,   made  from   scimmed  milk. 

Chacoli — a  wine  made  from  Chilian  grapes. 

Chad — see    Shad. 

Chafing  dish — a  dish  for  cooking  on  the  table;  or- 
namental silver,  alcohol  flame,  double  bottom; 
use  Terrapin  plates. 

Chambertin — a    delicate    burgundy   wine. 

Chambord — old  royal  castel  near  Blois,  France; 
fish   a  la   Chambord,   larded,    (carp). 

Champagne — a  wine  growing  district  in  France, 
where  sparkling  wine  has  first  been  made ;  see 
Wines    and    Buffet. 

Champignons — fairy-ring  mushroom. 

Chantaralle — a  mushroom. 

Chantilly — an  old  castle  dep.  Oise,  France ;  term 
used  to  denote  a  finishing  with  whipped  cream 
and  sometimes  preserved  fruit,  marmelade  or 
marzipan. 

Chantilly   cream — whipped   cream. 

Chapons — French  for   Capons. 

Chappatee — Indian   handbread. 

Char,    Ombre-chevalier — trout   of   the   Alps. 

Charcoal — a  purifyer  of  foods,  spec,  animal  charcoal. 

Charcuterie — cold  cuts. 

Chard — variety   of   white   beef. 

Charlotte — denotes    a    mould. 

Charlotte  of  apple — arrangement  of  bread  or  buis- 
cuit,  set  and  shaped  in  mould,  filled  with  stewed 
apples,  bread-crumbs  and  raisins. 

Charlotte  Chantilly — finger-biscuits,  stiff  cream, 
made  of  gelatine,  sugar,  cream,  egg-froth,  dec- 
orated  whipped   cream. 

Charlotte  russe — finger  buiscuits,  stiff  cream,  made 
of  egg-yolks,  gelatine  flavoring,  etc.,  decorated, 
whipped  cream ;  in  America  mainly  finger  buis- 
cuits  filled  with  whipped  cream. 

Charlotte  russe  au  cafe — finger  buiscuits,  vanilla 
cream  with  coffee  essence,  maccarooii'j  whipped 
cream. 

—  French  charlotte;  sponge-cake,  maccaroons  with 
sherry,  whipped  cream,   preserves. 


Charlotte 45 Cheese 

—  Italian    charlotte;    pears,    white    wine,    ladys    fin- 

gers,  whipped  cream,   gelatine. 

—  Neapolitan    charlotte;    tartelette    paste;    chestnut- 

bread,   sultana   raisins,    maraschino,    marmelade. 

Chartreuse — monastery  in  Dauphinee,  France,  where 
fine  sweet  liqueur  is  made  of  great  healing  qual- 
ity. 

Chateaiihriand — a  certain  mode  of  dressing  a  filet 
steak,  filet  broiled  between  two  steaks  of  in- 
ferior quality;   now  mostly  a  thick  broiled  steak. 

Chaudau — an   old   fashioned    french    caudle   cup.  . 

Chaudfroids — hot-colds ;    method   of  preparing   birds. 

Chaussons — puffs. 

Cheats — little  batter  cakes,  fried  with  honey,  jam 
or  sweet  sauce. 

Cheenesuckur — a  very  superior  sort  of  rice. 

Cheese,  Fromage,  Kase — casein  and  butter  fats,  the 
solids  of  milk,  when  dried  are  called  cheese ; 
served  in  AmA-ica  with   toasted  crackers. 

—  Brie-cheese;     a     large,     round     soft    flat     cheese; 

France. 

—  Camembert    cheese;    small    rounds,    cream    cheese, 

excellent    and    popular. 

—  Cantal    cheese;    piquant    flavor,    yellow    in    color; 

France. 

—  Cheddar      cheese;      pale-colored,      mellow,      salvy, 

flavor  of  hazelnut;  made  in  Somerset,  England. 

—  Cheshire  cheese;  large,  round  cheeses,  resembling 

the    Cheddar;    stronger   in   flavor. 

—  Cottenham    ch.eese ;    like    Stilton,    creamier. 

—  Cream   cheese;    made   from  new  milk   and   cream; 

sometimes    served    with    sugar    and    cream. 

—  Cream   cheese;    served  often  with  Bar-le-Due   jel- 

lies and   toasted   crackers. 

—  Dutch   cheese;    Edam   or   red,    round,    and    Gouda, 

flat,    resembling    Cheddar. 

—  Gorgonzola    cheese;     Italy;     superior    to     Stilton: 

shape  flat  and  broad,   resembles   Stilton. 
— Green   cheese;    a   sage   cheese. 

—  Gruyere    cheese;    very    large,    flat,    round    thick; 

mnde  in   Switzerland;   nutty  flavor. 

—  Limburger     cheese;     pungently     offensive     odor; 

made    from    skimmed   milk,    brick    form. 

—  Neuf  chatel  cheese  ;   small  salted  milk  cheese ;  blue 

veined;     I'rance. 

—  Parmesan  cheese;  from  Parma,  Italy;   very  large, 

180  pounds. 


Cheese  46 Cjieese 

—  Pont  I'eveque  cheese;  a  new  milk  cheese;  France. 

—  Port   Salud  cheese ;    soft  and  pasty,   palatable  and 

mild,    round    cakes,    5    pounds. 

—  Pot  cheese ;  made  of  sour  milk  and  butter  milk, 

boiled. 

—  Roquefort    cheese;    made   of   ewes'    milk,    pungent 

flavor;  excellent  when  advanced  in  decay;  this 
is  procured  by  introducing  mouldy  bread- 
crumbs. 

—  Sage    cheese ;    made    by    adding    sage    leaves    and 

greening   to    the   milk. 

—  Stilton    cheese;    king    of    british    cheeses;    cylin- 

drical shape,  whitish  rind,  cut  marked  with 
green  veins,   friable  but  mellow. 

—  Tao-foo    cheese;     Chinese    cheese    prepared    from 

peas. 

—  Cheese  fondu;    grated  parmesan  cheese  with  eggs, 

■  butter;    served  hot  with  toast.! 

—  Cheese    pudding;     butter,     grated    cheese,     cream, 

eggs  and  spices;  baked  brown;  served  hot 
with  toast. 

Cheese-raretit — see    Rarebit. 

Cheese  ramekins  or  puffs — water,  butter  and  flour, 
boiled  Avith  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  eggs; 
baked  the   size  of  an  egg. 

Cheese  souffles — butter,  flour,  milk  and  spices,  boiled 
with  egg-yolk  and  grated  cheese,  cooled  mixed 
with  egg-froth  and  baked;  mostly  served  in  paper 
cases.  ♦  ^ 

Cheese  straws — cayenne,  salt,  flour  and  butter  mix- 
ed to  paste  with   egg-yolk;   baked  in  long  strips. 

Cheese  tartelettes — tartelettes  filled  with  hot  paste 
of    cheese,    butter,    egg    and    milk    with    spices. 

Cheese  toasts — melted  cheese  with  milk  and  egg, 
spread    on    hot    toast. 

Cheese  triles — patties  with  melted  cheese,  egg,  flour 
and  spices. 

—  Golden  buck ;   melted  cheese  with  ale ;    served  on 

toast,     with    poached    egg    on    top,     very    hot; 
served    with    English    mustard    and    worchester 
sauce. 
t.'v  Mock    crab ;    paste    of    cheese,    vinegar,    mustard 
and  spices;  served  on  toast. 

—  Potted      cheese;      Cheshire      cheese     with     buter, 

sugar,  mace,  sherry,  pounded,  soaked  worked 
into   paste;    kept   in   jars. 


Cheese  47  Chestnuts 

—  Stewed     cheese;     served    on    toast;     cream,     Par- 

mesan,   egg   and   cayenne,   hoiled. 

—  Strohl  cheese;  baked  strips  of  cheese-paste,  made 

of  flour,  eggs,  spices  and  cream. 
■ — Talmouses  of   cheese;    baked  three-cornered  paste 

of  choux  paste  and  gruyere   cheese. 
— -Turkish   cream   cheese;    hot   melted  cream-cheese; 

served    with    honey. 

—  Welsh   rarebit;    chopped  cheese,  melted  with  ale; 

served    on    toast;    very    hot,    English    mustard 
and    worchester    sauce    should    always    accom- 
pany  this   dish. 
Cherries,  Cerises,  Kirschen — fruit  of  the  plum  tribe. 
Cherry  bounce — a  grand  cordial  if  well  mixed  with 

syrup,    almond    oil,    etc. 
Cherry  brandy — cherries,   brandy  and   syrup  bottled 

and  cellard. 
Cherry   cordial — stoned    cherries,    sweetened,    boiled, 

then  bottled  with  brandy. 
Cherry  custard — for   custard;   see  heading. 
Cherry     flawn — cherries     cooked     with     sugar     and 

water;   baked  on  puff  paste. 
Cherry  fool — cherries  boiled  with    sugar   and   water, 

crushed    and    sieved,    syruped   with    wine ;    served 

on    glazed    bread. 
Cherry    Jack — cherry     cordial     mixed     with     lemon- 
honey  and  brandy,   iced;    serve  with   straws. 
Cherry  marzipan — ^blanched  almond  paste  with  cher- 
ries. 
Cherrie    ratafia — macerated    cherries    with    pounded 

stones  and  brandy,    sugar,   etc. 
Cherrie     schmarn — a    pancake    with     cherries,     torn 

after  baking   to    pieces    and   let   to   brown   again; 

spices    and    sugar. 
Cherrie    souffle — hot    souflJe    of    black    cherries,    egg, 

flour,  cream,  etc, 
Cherrie  sherbet — pounded  sherries  and  stones  boiled 

with  sugar  and  water,   frozen. 
Chervill — sweet   herb,    combined   fennel   and   parsley 

flavor.  • 

Chestnuts — a    nut    grown    in    prickly    shell;    largely 

used    for    confectionery   and    stuffing. 
Chestnut  croquette — paste  of  roasted  chestnuts  with^ 

eggs,    creahi    and    butter,    ball    shaped,     fried    in 

boiling  fat  with  one  whole  chestnut  in  each  ball. 


Chestnut 48 Chocolate 

Chestnut  stuffing — chopped  shallot,  butter,  sausage- 
meat,  chopped  mushrooms,  spice,  boiled,  sifted 
with  bread-crumbs  and  cooled. 

Chestnut  timbale — six-cornered  timbale  of  paste, 
filled  with  sweet  chestnut-puree,  cut-up  pre- 
served fruit,  decorated. 

—  Puree  of  chestnuts;  peeled,  boiled  with  broth, 
mashed  with   sugar. 

Chianti — Italian  wine  of  burgundy  character. 

Chica — beer  brewed  from  maize. 

Chicken — see  Fowls. 

Chick-peas — pois    chiches;    small    leguminous    veg. 

Chicory — used  to  adulterate  coffee,  injurious,  not 
to  be  confused  with  french  chicoree,  which  an- 
swers   our    endive. 

Chiffonade — chiffon,  a  rag  applied  to  cookery; 
means    a   mixture    of   vegetables.      See    salads. 

Chilian  wines — of   very   good   quality. 

Chillies — see  Capsicums. 

China-chillo — see   mutton. 

Chinese  wines — made  from  rice,  millet,  wheat, 
beans,   etc. 

Chingara  a  la — corruption  of  Zingara,  meaning 
gypsy;  a  garniture  of  ham,  tongue  and  brown 
glaze. 

Chinguirito — Mexican    beverage;    injurious. 

Chipolata — derived  from  .ciboule,  a  kind  of  chive- 
onion;  a  stuffing  of  onions,  sausage,  bacon  and 
chestnuts. 

Chittaks — American    cakes    or   buiscuits. 

Chitterlings — small   intestines   of   animals. 

Chives — ciboulette ;  a  pot-herb ;  used  for  salad  and 
seasonings. 

Chloride   of    sodium — common   salt. 

Choca — a  drink  of  half  coffee  and  chocolate  and 
boiling  milk;  served  very  hot. 

Chocolate — alimentary  drink,  made  by  boiling  cocoa 
in  water  or  milk  with  sugar;  prepared  in  cakes 
from  cocoa;   see  Cocoa. 

Chocolate    Bavaroise — see    Bavaroise. 

Chocolate    blan*-manger — see    Blan-Manger. 

Chocolate   eclairs — see   Eclairs. 

Chocolate   ices — see   Ices. 
^  Chocolate  kisses — chocolate,  sugar,  white  of  Qg^  and 
flavoring    worked    into    candy;    walnut    size. 

Chocolate  meringue — egg-froth,  crushed  sugar,  and 
grated    chocolate;    baked   to    meringue. 


■Chocolate 49 Citron 

Chocolate  mousse — paste   of   chocolate,    syrup,   white 

of    egg,    whipped    cream    and    vanilla    sugar    iced 

in  mould,   dom-shaped. 
Chocolade  spongeade — a  kind  of  iced  mousse;  served 

in  glasses. 
Chocolate  whips — a   chocolade  custard  with   flavored 

whipped   cream  on  top;    served  in  glasses. 
Mulled    chocolate — chocolade    with    milk    and    water 

churned  to  a  froth  over  the  fire  and  served  hot. 
Parfait  au  chocolate — frozen  chocolade  custard  with 

whipped     cream ;     served    in    parfait    form,     long 

shape,    sometimes    in   a   glass. 
Chops — not     to     be     confounded    with     cotelette;     a 

piece    chopped    off    from    either    loin    or    chump; 

mostly   broiled. 
Chou-maiin — sea-kale. 

Chouxcroute — sour-crout;    see    sep.   heading. 
Choice-morsels — see    Tit-Bits. 
Choux — french  term  for  cabbages;   now  used  largely 

in  confectionery;    pate-a-choux ,   from  which  paste 

very  dainty,    little   cakes   are   made. 
Chow-chow — blending    together    of    various    kinds    of 

foods  in  pieces,   like  the  pickle,   called  pickalilly. 
Chowder — from    the    Chinese;    means    a    thick    soup, 

made   usually   of    salted   pork,    fried   with    onions, 

in   alternade   layers   with  mashed   potatoes,    slices 

of  fish;    seasoned  with   spices   and   wine. 
Christmas  pudding — a  pudding  of  any   kind,   flamed 

and   served  for  Christmas. 
Chub — fr.,    Chabot;    ger.,    Kaulbarsch;    fish    of    no 

great  merit;    resembles   the   carp. 
Chufa   or   tiger-nut — a    drink    is   made    of    this    nut, 

called    orgeat,    very    refreshing. 
Chuppatee — an  Indian  buiscuit. 
Churning — see    Butter, 
Chutney — a    condiment    prepared    by    mixing    fruits, 

sugar,    vinegar    and    spices    in    such    manner    that 

no   particular   flavor   predominates. 
Cider — wine    of    apples. 
Cinnamon — fr.,    Cannel;    germ.,    Zimmt;    inner   bark 

of   shoots   sprouting  from  the   truncated  stock  of 

the    cinnamonum ;    Ceylon. 
Cisko — a  fish  of  the  herring  tribe ;   lake  Ontario. 
Citric    acid — Citroneansaure;    acid   of    lemons. 
Citron — fruit   of  the   citron  tree;    has   anti-scorbutic 

properties. 


Cedrat 50 Claret 

Cedrat — prepared  rind  of  grape-fruit;  a  spice  and 
flavor. 

Citronade^home-made  liqueur  of  lemon-peel,  flavor- 
oil,  macerated,  filtered,  spirit  of  wine,  "water 
and    capillaire    added    and    colored. 

Civet — french  term  applied  to  ragout  of  hare  and 
game   with    onions    and   wines. 

Clams — soft,  hard  and  little-necked;  some  eaten 
like  raw  oysters,  hut  mostly  used  as  an  addi- 
tion to  dishes  and  sauces.  Cherry  stones,  large 
and  superior,  French  lucines;  see  Oysters  and 
Terrapin. 

Clam-fritters — chopped  up  clams  with  salt  and  pep- 
per fried  in  batter. 

Clam-hroth — clams  washed  in  shells,  put  on  the 
stove  in  saucepan,  as  they  get  hot,  they  open 
and  the  juice  so  extracted  is  sieved;  seasoned 
and    served   hot. 

Fried  clams — removed  from  shell,  washed,  hreaded, 
fried   to    golden  brown,    lemon. 

Little  neck  clams — served  raw,  like  oysters ;  in 
soup  plate,  filled  with  ice,  lemon,  buttered  brown 
bread,  crackers,  horseraddish  and  pepper  sauce 
or  mignonette. 

A    la    Bourgignonne — baked    in    shell   with    shallots. 

A  rAncienne — same  as  Bateliere;  served  in  square 
clam-frying    pan;     two    hot    plates    for    exchange. 

Soft  clams  Bateliere — baked  in  shell  topped  with 
lard,   bread-crumbs  and  cheese. 

Steamed  clams — clams  heated  to  open  shell,  juice 
separated,  clarified,  clams,  steamed  in  juice; 
served  in  shell,   butter  sauce   and   clam-juice. 

Btewed  clams — boiled  with  water,  fresh  buter, 
chives,  pepper  and  bread-crumbs  with  the  juice 
of   lemon   squeezed   over. 

Soft  clams  a  la  Grant — saute  with  green  peppers 
and  cream;    chafing  dish. 

Clams,    Casino — baked   in    shell,    bacon   and  peppers. 

Coney  Island  roast — roasted  in  both  shells. 

Claret — from  clari  or  clairs,  clear,  usually  applied 
to   red  bordeaux. 

Claret  '  cup — claret,  water,  _  castor-sugar,  brandy, 
slices  of  orange,   drained,   iced. 

Claret  fizz — wineglass  of  claret  in  tumbler  with 
ice,    shaken,    mixed  with   lemonade. 


Claret  Julep 51 Cocktails,  Drinks 

Claret    julep — claret,    syrup,    rye-whiskey,    ice,    mint 

or   balm,    berries    of    fruit    in    season,    drink   with 

straws. 
Clarifying— done  usually  with  white  of  egg,  gelatine, 

acids,    salts,    etc. 
Clary — a   plant   of   the   sage   genus. 
Clochettes — tasty  french  pastes  moulded  in  the  form 

of    bells. 
Clod— the   upper   part    of   a   bullock's   shoulder. 
Cloves — Latin    clovus;    a    nail;    a    spice;     Nelken. 
Coal-fish — species    of    cod-fish. 
Cobbler — a    fancyful    name    given    to    certain    drinks. 

ingredients     cobbled     or     patched     together;     see 

American   drinks,    cocktails. 
' — Champagne-cobbler;    sugar  or   syrup,    crushed  ice, 
champagne,   slices  of  lemon,   drunk  with   straws. 

—  Claret   colibler;    claret,    clove-cordial,    crushed   ice, 

slices  lemon,   straws. 

—  Sherry    cobbler ;    sherry,    sugar    or    syrup,    broken 

ice,    slices    lemon,    straws. 

—  Whiskey  cobbler;  rye  or  bourbon  whiskey,   sugar, 

crushed  ice,   lemon  with   straws. 

Coca — the  leaves  of  the  coca  plant  are  said  to 
possess  a  power  of  supporting  the  human  system 
under  excessive  fatique  and  abstinence  of  food 
without   affecting   the   body. 

Cochineal — a  coloring  matter,  gained  from  a  Mex- 
ican   insect. 

Cocido — Spanish  dish,   consisting  of  broth  and  hash. 

Cockade — sugar  or  paste  ornaments. 

Cock-a-leekie — a  soup,  made  of  half  roasted  and 
half    boiled    fowl    and    spices;    lots    of    leeks. 

Cock's  combs — fr.,  Cretes  de  coques;  used  for  gar- 
niture  mostly. 

Cock's  kernels — hard  secretions  found  in  the  flesh 
of  the  cock;   a  delicacy. 

Cocklps — from  coquille  shells;  a  delicious  little  shell- 
fish;   ranges    among    scallops. 

Cocktail — from  the  arm  motion  of  the  early  bar- 
tender; mixed  drinks  by  moving  arms  in  the 
shape   of   a   cock's   tail. 

Cocktails — American  beverages  under  this  name  are 
prepared  by  icing,  sweetening|  and  flavoring  in 
various  ways  mixtures  of  spirits,  liqueures  or 
wines    with    water;    see    American    drinks. 

—  Bourbon    cocktail;    bourbon-whiskey,    syrup,    tur- 

meric and  different  flavors;    served  iced. 


Mixed  Drinks 52 American  Drinks 

—  Brandy   cocktail;    orange-peel,    lemon-peel,    spices, 

brandy,    curacao,    syrup,    iced    and    shaken. 

—  Champagne    cocktail ;    orange,    lemon,    Gentian    es- 

sence, broken  ice,  syrup  and  orange-flower- 
water,  mixed  well  with  dry  champagnes^ 
straws. 

—  Gin-cocktail;    gin,    syrup,    gentian,    lemon,    iced. 

—  Rye  whiskey  cocktail;  rye  whiskey,  bitter  oranges 

and  tincture   of   Chillies;    iced. 

COCKTAILS    AND    MIXED    DRINKS 

*       Absinthe — American    style,    crushed    ice,    gum-syrup, 

absinthe,    water. 
Absinthe — French     style,     large     glass     with     extra 

bowl  filled  with  ice   and  water. 
Bishop — sugar,       lemon-juice,       orange-juice,       squirt 

soda,    ice,    burgundy,    rum,    fruit    and    straw. 
Blue   blazer — sugar,    Scotch   whiskey,    flamed,    lemon- 
peel,    nutmeg ;    shaken   while   burning. 
Brace-up — sugar,    bitters,    lemon-juice,    anisette,    egg, 

brandy,    ice ;    shaken    apollinaris. 
Brandy — champarelle,    curacao,    chartreuse,    anisettCj 

brandy,   sherry  glass ;    separate  colors. 
Cincinnatty — half   beer,    half    soda. 
Mullet    claret — sugar,    lemon-juice,    all-spice,    cloves, 

cinnamon,   claret,   boiled,   strained. 
Sherry  cobbler- — sugar,   pineapple  syrup,   sherry,   ice, 

fruit,  port,  straw;  lemonade  glass. 
Champagne   cobbler — sugar,    orange,    lemon-peel,    ice, 

wine,   fruit,    straw;    lemonade   glass. 
Cooler,      Eccky     Mountain- — egg,      beaten,    powdered 

sugar,    lemon-juice,    nutmeg;    well    stirred;    bottle 

soda. 
Absinthe   cocktail — ice,   gum-syrup,    bitters,    anisette, 

water,    absinthe,    stirred,    strained. 
Applejack      cocktail — lemonade      glass,       gum-syrup, 

raspberry-syrup,     applejack,     ice;     shake;     strain. 
Brandy  cocktail — gum-syrup,   bitters,   curacao,   bran* 

dy,    ice ;     stirred :    strained. 
Champagne     cocktail — ice,     sugar,     bitters,     orange, 

wine ;«  stir   lemon-peel. 
Gin   cocktail — gumlkyrup,   bitters,   gin,    curacao,   ice; 

stirred  lemon-peel. 
Japanese     cocktail — orgeat-syrup,     bitters,     brandy, 

ice;    stirred;    strained. 


Mixed  Drinks 53 American  Drinks^ 

Jersey    cocktail — sugar,    ice,    bitters,    cider,    lemon- 
peel. 
Manhattan     cocktail — vermouth,      whiskey,      bitters, 

gum-syrup. 
Martinez — same  as  Manhattan,  but  gin  for  whiskey. 
Metropolitan     cocktail — brandy,     vermouth,     bitters, 

gum-syrup. 
Soda    cocktail — lemonade    glass,    sugar,    bitters,    ice, 

bottle  lemon-soda  stirred,  fruits. 
Whiskey   cocktail — ice,    gum-syrup,    bitters,    curacao, 

whiskey,    stirred,    strained,    lemon-peel. 
Vermouth  cocktail — vermouth,    bitters,   gum-sj^rup. 
Saratoga     cocktail — bitters,     ice,     brandy,     whiskey, 

shaken,    strained   in    claret   glass ;    lemon. 
Cocktail    coffee — sugar,    egg,    portwine,    brandy,    ice;, 

shake  and  strain;   grated  nutmeg. 
Manhattan        club        oyster        cocktail — lemon -juice, 

Tabasco   sauce,   pepper,    vinegar,    salt,    pepper,    six 

blue-point    oysters. 
Martini    cocktail — vermouth,    gin,    bitters,    ice ;    stir. 
Crusta  of  brandy — lemonade   glass;    ice,    syrap,   bit- 
ters,   lemon-juice,    maraschino,    brandy;    served   in 

glass   with   sugar-crust   and  huge   lemon-peel. 
Cup-claret — large    glass    jug,     claret    wine,     curacao, 

sherry,     brandy,     ratafia,     lemon,     oranges,     green 

balm,   selzer,   soda,   sugar  and  ice ;    cucumber-rind. 
Daisy — brandy,      gumy-syrup,      lemon-juice,      orange, 

cordial,    ice,   brandy,   shake,   strain,   appolinaris. 
Egg-nogg  imperial — lemonade   glass,   sugar,   egg,   ice, 

brandy,    shake    when    hot,    use    milk. 
Fedora, — brandy,      curacao,      rum,      bourbon,      sugar, 

water,    lemon,    ice,    fruits,    straw. 
Gin-fiz — Delmonico    glass,    sugar,    seltzer,    syrup,    ice, 

Holland   gin,    stired. 
Golden    fizz — egg-yolk,     sugar,    lemon-juice,    gin    or 

whiskey,    ice,    shake,    strain,    seltzer    separate. 
Brandy — Hip,   ice,   beaten  egg,    sugar,   brandy,   shake, 

strain,  nutmeg. 
Brandy  float — pony   of  brandy   submerged  in  water, 

withdrawn,    brandy   floats    on   water. 
Flapped    caffee    royale — coffee,    brandy    frapped    in 

cooler;    semi-frozen.  . 

Vermouth    frappe — lemonade    glass;    Fr.,    Vermouth, 

shaved    ice,    seltzer    water. 
Tom    Collins — extra    large    glass,    sugar,    lemon-juice^ 

gin,    ice,   bottle  plain   soda. 


Mixed  Drinks &4 American  Drinks 

Moselle — cup,  1  "bottle  Moselle;  1  bottle  club  soda; 
1  glass  sherry;  1  pony  brandy;  1  pony  Anisette; 
3  slices  pineapple;  1  rind  of  lemon,  sugar,  ice, 
mint. 

Hari-cari — whiskey  sour  with  seltzer  and  fruits; 
lemonade    glass. 

Half  and  half — half  porter  and  half  ale ;  lemonade 
glass. 

Mint-julep — water  glass,  sugar,  water,  mint-juice, 
brandy,  fruits  and  mint,  leaves  out,  stem  down- 
ward;   dash    rum,    straws. 

Knickebein — sherry  glass,  vanilla,  cordial,  egg-yolk, 
benedictine,  kummel,  bitters,  keep  colors  separate 
as  in  pousse-cafe. 

Knickerbocker — lemonade  glass,  raspberry-syrup, 
lemon-juice,  slice  pineapple  and  orange,  rum, 
Curacao,    ice,    stirred,    fruits,    straw. 

Hot  lemonade — sugar,  lemon-juice,  hot  water,  lemon- 
ade glass. 

Plain  lemonade — sugar,  lemonade,  ice,  plain  water, 
stirred,    fruit   and   straw. 

Hot  locomotive — lemonade  glass,  egg-yolk,  sugar, 
honey,  mixed,  curacao  and  burgundy  boiled,  mix- 
ed,   slice    lemon,    grated   cinnamon. 

Soda  necktar — -lemonade  glass,  lemon-juice,  seltzer 
water,  sugar,  bicarbonate  of  soda ;  mixed  and 
stirred;    purging. 

Porto-Ricco — bottle  ginger  ale,  lime,  gin,  blackberry 
brandy. 

Portwlne  negus — sugar,  portwine,  hot  water,  grated 
nutmeg,     medium    glass. 

American  pousse  cafe — maraschino,  curacao,  char- 
treuse,   brandy,    colors    separate. 

Brandy  punch — lemonade  glass,  sugar,  lemon-juice, 
rum,  brandy,  piece  pineapple,  slice  orange,  ice, 
dressed  with  fruits,  shaken,   straws. 

Milk  punch — lemonade  glass ;  fine  ice,  sugar,  brandy, 
rum,   frosh  milk,   mixed,   strain,   nutmeg. 

Hot  whiskey  punch — hot  highball  glass;  lemon-juice, 
sugar,  hot  water,  slice  lemon  or  peel,  grated 
nutmeg;    serve    with    teaspoon    and    ice    separate. 

UMne  wine  and  seltzer — lemonade  glass;  iced  rhine 
wine  half   and  half,    iced  seltzer. 

Hum — hot  and  spiced;  hot  water  glass;  sugar,  but- 
ter,   rum,    hot    water,    stirred,    no    spices. 

Brandy  sangaree — highball  glass;,  ice  water,  brandy, 
sugar,    stirred,    dash   portwine. 


Mixed  Drinks 55 Cod-fish 

Shandy  gaff — lemonade  glass;  half  lager  beer,  half 
ginger  ale. 

Sherry  and  hitters — sherry  glass;  dash  bitters, 
sherry. 

Brandy  shrub — sugar,  soda,  brandy,  sherry,  lemon, 
strained  with  rind  of  lemon. 

Scotch  whisky  skin — highball  glass;  hot  water, 
scotch    whisky,    lemon-peel. 

Brandy  sling — sugar,  water  hot,  brandy,  nutmeg, 
stirred  when  cold;  serve  with  ice. 

Slipper — wine 'glass;  yellow  chartreuse,  egg-yolk, 
gold  wasser,  yolk  must  be  whole. 

Brandy  smash — lemonade  glass ;  sugar,  water,  mint 
brandy,    ice,    stirred,    strained. 

Whiskey  sour — ice,  sugar,  lemon-juice,  seltzer, 
water,    whiskey,     stirred,    strained. 

Stone  fence — highball  glass;  whiskey,  ice,  cider; 
stirred. 

Stone  wall — sugar,  ice,  whiskey,  bottle  plain  soda ; 
stirred,    ice   removed. 

A  suydam — appetizer;  measure  glass;  two  bitters 
any  kind  liqueur. 

Gum-syrup — water  and  sugar,  boiled  thick. 

Egg  phosphate — lemonade  glass ;  ice,  sugar,  egg, 
acid  phosphate,   water;    shaken  and  strained. 

Fruit  lemonade — lemonade  glass ;  ice,  sugar,  lemon- 
juice;  mashed  fruitberries,  water,  shaken,  strain- 
ed,  fruits  and  straws. 

Milk  shake — lemonade  glass;  ice,  sugar,  egg,  milk, 
shaken,    nutmeg. 

Morning  glory — ice,_  absinthe  (  lime-juice,  lemon- 
juice,  sugar,  white  of  egg,  whiskey,  shaken, 
strained,    seltzer    water;    is    nerve    quieting. 

Champagne  cup — like  Moselle,  but  no  lemon,  take 
orange  instead,   add  sweet  fruit. 

Amour  sans  fin — lemon  and  oranges,  wine-spirit, 
water   and   rosewater,    macerated. 

Parfait  d' Amour — Medoc  wine,  wine  spirit,  cinna- 
mon and  orange-peel  with  spices. 

Cocoa — (Trinidad  and  Granada,  an  almond  shaped 
seed  of  the  cocoa  tree,  is  ground  after  being 
roasted;    enrichened  with   sugar — gives   chocolade. 

Cocoa  nuts — fr.,  noix  de  coco;  ger.,  Kokosnuss;  fruit 
of    a    tall,    straight    palm. 

Cod-fish — fr.,  cabillaud;  germ.,  Kabeljau;  excellent 
and    wholesome   food. 


Cod-fish 56 Coffee 

—  Boiled   cod   a   la   hollandaise ;    with,   yellow   cream 

sauce. 

—  Boiled  cod  a  la  flamande ; flemish  sauce  and  po- 
tatoe    croquette. 

Cod  a  la  royale— stuffed,  baked  in  butter,  sauce 
with  essence  of  anchovie. 

Cod  au  gratin — baked  with  brown  sauce  and  bread- 
crumbs. 

Cod-fish  balls — boned  and  pounded,  mashed  potatoe, 
butter  and  egg  shaped  in  balls  with  fish,  fried 
to   a  brown  color. 

Cod  toast — fish  picked  to  pieces  with  cream  and 
eggs,   heated,   poured   over   toast. 

—  Fried    cod    a    la    Maitre    d'Hotel;    fried;     served 

with  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter,  lemon. 
Cod  cutlets  a  la  Reine — fried,   strips  of  cod  formed 
in    coteletts,    breaded,    brown    sauce. 

Matelote   of   cod-fish — oyster  stuffing,    baked  with 

bacon   and  butter. 

—  Rechauffe  of  cod-fish;  boiled  pieces  of  fish  boned, 

baked    with    cream,     spices,     flour    and    bread- 
crumbs. 

Cod-fish  a  la  bonnefemme — -boiled  and  boned  fish, 
cooked   with   bechamel   and   german   sauce. 

Cod-fish,    steak   a   la   Parmentier — poached  in  white 

~    wine,    potatoes    fondante. 

Cod-fish  a  la  Biscaya — the  same  as  a  la  bonne- 
femme, but  with  tomatoe  sauce. 

Cod's  liver — usually  prepared  in  forcemeat. 

Cod's  roes — a  la  hollandaise;  boiled  with  water  and 
vinegar  with  dutch  butter  sauce. 

Cod's  sounds — esteemed   as   delicaci<!s  for  invalides. 

Cod's  _  tongues — tasty  dishes,  though  hardly  ever 
noticed. 

Coffee — fr.,  cafe;  ger.,  Kaffee;  the  berries  or  seed 
of  the  coffee-plant  are  roasted,  ground  and  in- 
fiised._  The  infusion  is  drunk  hot  and  has  a 
digestive  action,  but  owing  to  a  certain  percent- 
age of  cafein,  it  affects  the  heart  if  taken  in 
excess. 

Coffee  Turc — boiling  water  on  coffee,  meal  in  special 
silver  pot;  served  in  very  small  cup  in  silver 
stand,  fine  sugar,  unstrained. 
■Cafe  au  lait — milk  brought  to  almost  boiling  point, 
then  finely  ground  coffee  added,  boiled,  sieved 
and  served  hot.  In  America  hot  coffee  and  hot 
milk  separate. 


Coffee  57  Conserves 

Coffee    Bavaroise — a    stiff    cream,    made    of    gelatine 

and  cream  with   coffee  flavor. 
Coffee   cake — plain    cake,    made    of   madeleine   paste, 

masked  with   a   coffee  mixture. 
Coffee   custard — boiled  milk,    strong  coffee,   yolks   of 

eggs    and    castor    sugar    filled    in    custard    cups, 

boiled  and  cooled. 
Coffee  with  egg — cold  water,   ground  coffee  and  egg 

beaten,    boiled    with    boiling   water. 
Coffee  glacee — eggs,  sugar  and  flour  mixed  to  smooth. 

paste;    baked,    glazed    with    coffee    icing,    a    cake 

or    coffe,    ice    cream,    cold    coffee,    mixed,    shaken 

in   lemonnde   glen,    straws;    a   drink. 
Coffee   granito — sherbet,    made   of   coffee   and   syrup, 

boiled   and  frozen;    served  in  the   state   of  frozen 

water. 
Coffee    icing — boiled    clarified    sugar,    flavored    with 

strong    coffee. 
Coffee   iced — see    ices. 
Coffee    creme   de   mocca — liqueur,    made    of    infusion 

from  ground,  roasted  coffee  and  syrup. 
Coffee    gloria — sweetened   black    coffee    with   brandy, 

flamed     and    extinguished    before     all     the     spirit 

is    burned. 
—  Mousse   au   coffee;    half   frozen    coffee,    ice    cream. 
Coffee  parfait — half  frozen  coffee,  ice  cream;   served 

in    tall    glass    with   whipped    cream   on    top.      The 

same   is    made   of   chocolate,    or  napolitean   ice   or 

any   other    ice    cream   and   is    then    called    accord- 
ingly. 
Cognac — brandy,   made  in  Cognac,   France. 
Cocker    nut — see    cocoa    nut    (cockney). 
Colbert  sauce — called  after  French  minister  Colbert; 

see  sauces. 
Colcannon — Irish   dish;    baked   turnips   and  potatoe. 
Collops — small  slices  of  meat. 
Comfit — confected    or    prepared. 
Compotes — dishes   of  stewed  fruits   and   syrups. 
Conde  a  la- — Freench  name  for  a  puree  of  red  haricot 

beans  and  a  dish  made  of  apricot  and  rice,  from 

Conde    castle,    Chantilly. 
Condiment — seasoning    to    improve    digestive    quality. 

of   food. 
Confectionery — fr.,    confiserie;    ger.,    Zuckerwerk. 
Confits — see    comfits. 
Conserves — pickles    and    preserves. 


Consomme  58  Cornucopia 

^^^»  11 

Consomme — double     broth ;      strengthened     soup     or 
broth   by  reducing   it   in  boiling;    see    soups. 

Consomme    aux   darioles — with    little    cakes    of   ham, 
eggs,    madeira   and. with  peas. 

Consomme  celestine — with  cut  up  pancakes. 

Consomme  duchesse — with  little  balls  of  paste  stuf- 
fed   with    forcemeat. 

Consomme  a  I'anglaise — with  green  peas  and  minced 
fowl. 

Consomme  a  I'epicure — Gourmet,  with  eggs  on  stuff- 
ed toast. 

Consomme    a  I'lndienne — rice,    curry,    artichoke   bot- 
tom and  egg-plant. 

Consomme  a  I'ltalienne — with  Italian  paste,   or  with 
maccarooni    and    rice. 

Consomme     a    la     napolitaine — with     chopped    ham, 
tongue,    maccarooni    and   mushroom. 

Consomme   Maliileiie — strained   with    tomato. 

Consomme    Mcoise — with    minced    tomatoes. 

Consomme    royale — with    dices    of    a    custard,    made 
of    eggs    and    milk. 

Consomme   printaniere — with   minced   vegetables. 

Consomme  sevigne — made  of  braised  chicken  &  veal. 

Consomme    suedoise — with   rolls,    stuffed   with    vege- 
table mixture.     For  complete  list,   see  soups. 

Contising — cutting  slits  into  meat,  filled  with  wedge- 
shaped    savourys. 

Cookies — small,    flat,    sweet    cakes. 

Coct    de   bruyere — fr.    for   blackcoq. 

Coquille — fr.     for     shells;     a    la    Lord-Mayor,     with 
lobster,    glace    and    truffles. 

Coquillage — a    shell-fish   cocktail. 

Corach — a    relish. 

Corral — dried    and    pounded    lolster    marrow    red. 

Coralline — partially    cooked   food   from   Indian    corn. 

Corbeilles — fr.    for    baskets. 

Corned   beef   hash — with   potatoes    on    toast,    twenty 
minutes,    ask    if    browned    is    desired. 

Cordials — liqueurs    said   to    hold   medicinal   qualities. 

Coriander — the    ripe    fruit    dried    is    much    used    by 
confectioners. 

Coring — take  out  the  heart. 

Corned  meats — meats  salted  with  corns  of  salt. 

Cornet — a  rolled  up   square   sheet  of  paste   or  other 
material. 

Corn  salad — doucette,   something  like  field-salad. 

Cornucopia — Ger.,    Fullhorn;    horn    of   plenty. 


Cosaques 59 Crabs 

Cosaques — french    for    crackers. 

Costmary — herb    of   marked  flavor. 

Cotelettes — fr.  for  cutlets,  little  ribs. 

Coulibiac — a   russian   pie,    made    of  brioche   paste. 

Country  captain — a   curry  of  fowl,   kid  and  veal. 

Couques — little     pancakes     of     buckwheat-flour     and 

butter. 
Court  touillon — short  broth;    highly  seasoned   stock. 
Cowslips— a  plant,   primula   veris. 
Crabs — Fr.,    Crabes;    Ger.,    Crabben;   hard   shell,   red 

and  hard  shell  blue;   lose  anually  their  shell  and 

are  then  for  some  time  soft  shell  crabs. 
Crab,   oyster  crab — found  in  deep   sea  oysters,  very 

small;  delicious;  see  Terrapin. 

—  Hard    shell    crabs;    taken    out,     chopped    up    and 

served  in  shell. 

Crab  a  la  Rf^ine — picked  hard  shell  crabs,  mixed, 
with  sliced  celery  and  french  dressing;  served 
in   shell   with  mayonnaise. 

Crab  cromesquis— boiled,  scalloped,  made  to  crab- 
meat,  rolled  in  thin  sliced  pork,  dipped  in  bat- 
ter,  fried  golden  brown;    parsley  and  lemon. 

Crab  Croquette — meat  picked  and  chopped;  balls 
rolled  in  batter,  fried,  lemon. 

Crab  forcemeat — picked  crab,  onion,  stock,  flour, 
eggs    and    seasoning. 

Crab  salad — picked  meat  of  crab,  mixed  with  finely 
chopped  cabbage,  dressed  with  white  of  egg, 
egg-yolk,  parsley;  chives  all  chopped,  or  plain 
with    fr.    dr.    or   mayonnaise. 

—  Devilled    crabs:     cream    and    onion,    cayenne    and 

seasoning    with    picked    crab,    baked,    in    shell. 

Crab  meat  a  la  Dewey — cream  sauce,  cepes,  oyster- 
crabs,     truffles. 

Crabmeat  Baltimore — see  terrapin. 

Crabmeat  a  la  Luzerne — saute  with  oystercrabs,  ter- 
rapin,   Newburgh    sauce. 

Crab — stuffed,    cold    in    shell. 

Crabmeat  a  la  Newburg — made  with  creamy  sherrj 
sauce;  served  in  chafing  dish  with  dry  toast 
and  little  flask  of  sherry;   terrapin  plate. 

Crab-meat    Alice — in    casserolet,    cream    sauce. 

Crab-meat  Cocktail — served  in  glass  or  on  ice  like 
oyster-cocktail. 

Crab-flakes  Cossuth — chafing  dish,  cream  sauce. 

Fried  soft  shell  crabs — breaded  and  fried;  served 
with  tartare    sauce   and  lemon. 


^rabs 60 Cray-fish 

Soft    shell    crabs    a    la    Meuniere — in    chafing    dish 

with  black  butter. 
Crab     ravigotte — chopped     crabmeat     in    hard    shell 

with  ravigotte   sauce,   mixed;    served  cold. 
—  Oyster    crabs    a    la    Poulette ;    stewed   with    cream 

sauce   with   chopped   parsley. 
Crab    apple — long   stalked   fruit. 
CJrackers — thin,    dry   buiscuits. 

Crackers — Benz-water    crackers,    plain    or    toasted. 
Crackers — Saltines,    plain    or    toasted;     served    with 

cheese,    (toasted). 
Crackers — Pilot,    large,    round;    served   with   milk  if 

ordered. 
-Crackling — scored  and  browned  skin  of  pork. 
Cracknels — hard    shell   like    cakes,    soft   within. 
Cracknuts — Barcelone     nut     or     cakes     like     water 

buiscuits. 
Crambamboli — an  ancient   German  bowl,   Rhine  wine 

with  sugar  burnt  in  rum. 
Cranberries — Fr.,    Airelles;    Ger.,    Moosbeeren;    used 

for   making    tarts,    jellies,    marmelade   and   certair 

sauces ;    derv.    name    from    crane,    bird   who    lives 

on   them. 
Crapauiine — term    applied    to    manner    of    preparing 

birds    for    broiling;    toat    shape. 
Crape-fish — salted  cod-fish  hardened  by  pressure. 
Crapiva  soup — sorrel,   nettles,  broth,   onions  &   eggs. 
Crappie — a  fresh  water  bass. 
Cray-fish    or    craw-fish — fr.    Ecrevisse;    ger.,    Bach- 

krebs. 
Cray-fish    a    la    Bordelaise — soaked    in    milk,    boiled 

in   bordeaux   wine    with    cognac    and    mirepoix    of 

vegetable. 
Cray-fish  en  buisson — served  in  pyramid,   garnished 

with    parsley. 
Cray-fish  a  la  Lorraine — boiled  in  white  wine  sauce 

of   tha   liquor,    ham   and  butter. 
Cray-fish    a   la   Mariniere — boiled   with   white   wine,  • 

sauce   of   the  liquor  with   chopped  parsley. 
Cray-fish   a  la  Polonaise — boiled  in  white  wine  and 

seasoning. 
Cray-fish   a  la  Poulette — boiled  with   veloute   sauce, 

chopped  parsley  and  lemon-juice. 
■Cray-fish    a   la   Provencale — boiled   in   mirepoix   and 

white   wine,    sweet   herbs    and    slice   of  ham,   half 

glaze   and  tomatoe   sauce. 


Cray-fish  61  Cream 

Cray-fish  butter — shells  pounded  with  butter,  boiled 

to   paste. 
Cray-fish      croquette — salpicon      of     cray-fish     with 

bechamel    sauce   breaded   and   fried. 
Cray-fish  nudels — nudels  w.   cray-fish  butter  baked. 
Cray-fish    rissoles — cray-fish    meat,     mushroom    and 

liechamel    sauce    with    fish    forcemeat,    rolled    in 

puff-paste,  breaded  and  fried. 
Cray-fish  quenelles — see  quenelle. 
Cray-fish  timbale — mince   meat  of  gray-fish ;    served 

in  cray-fish  timbale,  glued  with  jelly. 
Cream  caramel — see  caramel   cream. 
Cream   bavaroise — cream,    sugar,    eggs    and   gelatine. 
Cieam  Chateau-briand — noyeau  cream  with  jelly  and 

almonds. 
Clouted    cream — simmered    and    cooled,    rises    to    be 

very    thick. 
Cream    Diplom?te — cream,    milk,    gelatine    and    eggs, 

candied    fruit,    wine,    jelly    and    flavor;    iced    and 

served    stiff   and    cold. 
Cream   buckets — little    buckets   of   paste    filled   with 

whipped  cream ;    see  below  cray-fish. 
Cream    cuite — boiled   with    eggs    and    sugar,    cooled; 

used  to  fill  confectionery. 
Cream    fritters — flour,    pounded    maccaroons,    sugar, 

egg-yolks,    flavoring,    boiled   thick,    cooled,    cut    in 

small  pieces  and  fried. 
Cream   meringues — baked,    egg-froth,    shaped  oblong, 

filled    with    flavored    cream. 
Cream    plombiere    with    bananas — thick    ice    cream, 

banana    flavor. 
Cream  salad  dressing — eggs  beaten  with  sugar,   salt 

and  mustard,  vinegar  and  cream;   boiled  over  hot 

water,    cooled. 
Cream  sauce — butter,  flour,   sugar  and  madeira  wine 

and   cream,    boiled  with  rum. 
Cream    Souffle — see    Souffle. 
Cream    Strudel — see    Strudel 
Cream   toast — dry   toast    submerged   in   bowl   of   hot 

cream :    serve    cream    separate. 
Cream  toffy — sugar  and  cream,  boiled  and  cooled. 
Cream    a    la    Versailles — a    cream    custard,    vanilla 

flavor,    caramel   sauce. 
— 'Fairy  cream;    custard  with  fruit  and  maraschino. 
'Cream  harlequin — corn-flour,   cream,   custards  of  dif- 
ferent   colors. 


A 


Cream  62  Cream 

Cream    Imperial — curdled    cream    with    orange-flour 
and  juice. 

—  Italien    cream ;    thin  custard,    cooled  and  flavored. 
Cream    Mauritius — whipped    cream    with    eggs    and 

arrow-root. 
Cream    Koscovite — gelatinous    cream    with    egg-frotb 
and  flavoring. 

—  Neapolitan    cream;    with    eggs    and    fruit    juice.^ 

—  Neapolitan     cream    ice ;     vanille     cream    ice,     pis- 

tachio   cream    ice    and    raspberry    water    ice. 

—  Newport     whipped     cream ;     sugar,     wine,     lemon^ 

milk    and    cream    whipped    and    served    in    jelly 
glasses. 

—  New  York   ice   cream;    frozen   custard  with  whip- 

ped   cream,    vanilla    flavor. 

—  Plombiere   cream   ice ;    regular   cream  ice,    worked 

with    whipped    cream    while    freezing. 

—  Portuguese    cream    ice ;    candied    orange-peel,    pis- 

tachios  and   curacao. 
Cream    Fiincesse — whipped    cream  with   mixed  fruit 
and   brandy. 

—  Prussian  cream;   eggs,   cream  and  lemon,  whisked 

boiled  and  cooled. 

—  Rhenish     cream;     thickened    cream    with     sherry,. 

eggs   and  wine. 

—  Rock    cream;    boiled   rice   paste,    eggs,    sugar    and 

cream,  moulded  till  cold  and  firm;    served  with 
cream. 

—  Roman    cream ;     frothy    cream    with    curacao     or 

wine,    stiff. 

—  Rose  cream;    cream  with  brandy  and  rose  water: 

plenty     eggs;     served    in    glass    with    poached 
white  of  egg  and  nonpareille. 

—  Royal     cream ;     hardened    cream    with    eggs     and 

vanilla  flavor. 

—  Sicilian    cream   ice;    with    shred    pistachios,    diav- 

olinis    and    dried    sherries. 

—  Swiss    cream;    with    lemon    and    white   wine. 

—  Thich  cream;  with  lemon  juice,  brandy  and  sugar. 

—  Velvet    cream;     sugar,     sherry,     gelatine    stiff    as 

blanc-manger. 

—  Windsor  cream ;    custard  with  lemon  and  brandy^ 

chopped    fruit    with    alternate    layers    of    cake, 
cooled. 

—  Yankee    cremo ;    eggs,    sugar,    corn-flour    and  milk 

worked  thick,    covered  with  egg-froth,   browned 
with  salamander. 


Cream 63  Crumbs 

Cream    of    tartare — acid    cristals,    wine    crust. 
Crecy — town,    fnmuus    for    its    carrots;     a    la    Crecy 

with    carrots. 
Cremes — french    term    for    cordials    to    indicate    the 

creamlike  smoothness  of  these  drinks. 
Cremona — town     in     Italy     and     name     of     compote 

eaten  with  roasted  meats. 
Crepes — french   term   for  crisp   pancakes;    see  there. 
Crepinettes — flat    sausages    wrapped   in    pig's    cauls. 
Crescent — buiscuits,    shape   of  half-moon. 
Cresses — fr.,     Cresson;     ger.,    Kressen;     watercress; 

a    salad;    used    for   garnish   mostly. 
Crisps    or    cresps — an    old    fashioned    term    for   pan- 
cakes. 
Crissins — with     cheese    flavored    buiscuits. 
Crockery — vessels,   made   from  earth  or   clay. 
drome squis — fritters  wrapped  in  paste. 
Croquantes — french   cakes,   made   with  almond. 
Croquenbouche — cracks   in   the   mouth;    crisp  pastry. 
Croques — crisp,  hard  confection,  made  of  fruit  paste 

to   crunch. 
Croquette — finely  minced  meats  blended  with  season- 
ing and  spices,   bound  with   german   sauce,   rolled 

in    cork    shape,    breaded    and   fried. 
Croquette   Imiperiale — chicken,    veal   and   truffle,   ham 

and   bechamel    sauce;    seasoned. 
Croquette    Milanaise — chicken,    tongue    truffles,    mac- 

^arooni,   german   sauce    and  parmesan   cheese   ball 

shaped,    oiled,    breaded   and   fried. 
—  Panaches;    of    chicken   and    sweet   bread,    fried. 
Croquette    ?    la    Turque — rice,    stock    strained    veg., 

tomato  with  eggs,  cork  shaped,  breaded  and  fried. 
Croquignolles — hard,    dry,    crisp   pasty    cake. 
Croustade — patties  with  a  crisp   crust.  • 

Croustade    ?■    la    Fi'ianciere — big    pattie,    filled    with 

ragout    of    cock's    combs,    mushrooms,    foie    gras, 

fowl-collops,  truffles,  chicken-livers,  Spanish  sauce. 
Croute     au    pot — -''pot-luck''     clear    soup,     made    of 

anything  handy,   toasted  bread. 
Croutons — little    crusts. 

Crowdy — thick  gruel  of  oatmeal  and  milk. 
Cruets— flasks,    oil    and   vinegar    stand. 
Crullers — cakes,  fried  in  boiling  fat,  made  of  twisted 

or    curled    dough. 
Crumbs — small   particles   of  bread. 


Crumpets 64 Dace 

Crumpets — pancakes     or    fritters,     very    much     like 

muffins,    but    different    taste ;    eaten    toasted   with 

tea  as  a  rule. 
Crusade — fried    bread-croutons    hollowed    out,    filled 

with   marmelade. 
Crusts — croutons,    pie-crusts,    or   bread   crusts;    used 

separatedly  with   sweets. 
Crustas — see   cocktails^ 
Crystallizing — fruits    or    flowers    crystallized    in    hot 

sugar-sj^rup. 
Cucumbers — mostly   eaten   raw   as   salads ;    but   used 

stuffed  and  cooked  as   garniture. 
Cuisine — french   for  kitchen. 
Cumin — ger,,   Kiimmel;    seeds  of  the  plant;   used  in 

cookery  as  a  flavoring. 
Gunner — small  fish. 
Cups — see    cocktails. 
Curacao — dutch  liqueur,  made  of  brandy,   sugar  ani 

orange-peel. 
Curds — parts    of   milk   which    coagulate    when   veget. 

or  acid  is   added. 
Curing — salting,  drying  and  smoking. 
Currants — dried    fruit    of    Corrinth    grape    and    ber- 
ries   of    the    Tibes. 
Currants    red    and    black — used    largely    as    jelly; 

german,   Johannisbeeren. 
Curry — flavoring    dishes    with    curry-powder,     (some- 
what  like    saffron). 
Cuscus — a  wheat  paste   of  the  Arabs,   national   dish, 
Cusk — a  fish  resembling  cod-fish. 
Cussy — Spanish  onions,   boiled  in  meat  stock. 
Custards — stiff    creams,    made    of    eggs,    sugar    and 

milk,    mixed   in    various    proportion. 
Cup-custard — made    in    earthen    cup    in   which    it    i» 

served. 
Custard-tipple — tropical     fruit     of     juicy,     yellowish 

pulp. 
Cutlets — small   ribs. 
Cuvee — french;    meaning    time    at    which    wine    was 

fermented    in    cask     (cuve). 
Cuyos — drinking    cups,     made     of    the    rind    of    the 

calabash    or    gourd. 
Cygnettes — young    swans. 

Dabs — limandes;    flat-fish. 
Dace — little   river  fish.  _ 


Dairy 65 Diastase 

Dairy — fr.,    Laiterie;    ger.,    Molkerei;    place    where 

milk  products  are  served. 
Dampf-nouilles — see  nouilles. 
Damania — plant  of  the  Turneria  genus;  regarded  as 

cure. 
Damson — damascene-plum. 
Dandelion — fr.,   dent-de-lion;   ger.,  Lowenzahn;  used 

as  salad  and  vegetable. 
Dandelion   salad  a  la  Contoise — prepared  with  fried 

bacon,  cut  in  dices. 
Dantzig — liqueur   prepared    at   Dantzig   with    flavor- 
less   gold-leaves    floating    in    it. 
Daricle — cream    or    cheese    cakes,    in    round    fluted 

mould. 
Dame — french  for  a  slice  of  fish. 
D'Artois    a    la    Husse — salpicon    of    cooked    oysters, 

gray-fish     tails,     mushrooms    and    eel-livers    with 

pike   forcemeat  in  puff-paste. 
Darum — intoxicating  drink,  made  in  India  of  Mowha 

flowers,    very    cheap,    bad   odor. 
Dates — ger.,    Datteln;    fruit    of    palm-tree. 
Daube — french  for  a  powerful  seasoning  of  meat,  as 

beef   en    daube ;    cold. 
Daubing — means     coarsley    larding    with    pork;     as 

a   seasoning. 
Dauphine,    a  la — with   croquette   of  potatoes,   brown 

sauce;    see  Garniture. 
Decanters — term    applied   to    fine    glass   jugs,    to   be 

filled  with   wine. 
Deer — see   venison. 
Demi-glaze — see   glaze. 
Demijohns — glass     bottles     with    large     bodies     arc! 

small   necks,    in   wickerwork. 
Dentex — fish    of    the    perch    tribe. 
Dessert — term  applied  to  the  last  course  of  a  dinner. 
Devilled — term    given    to    broiled    meats    or    bones, 

prepared   freely   with    cayenne. 
Devonshire    white     pot — slices    of    buttered    french 

rolls    with    sugar    and    nutmeg    in    bowl,    covered 

with    mixture    of    milk,    water    and    beaten    eggs ; 

baked. 
Dewberrie — sort    of    black    berrie    of   little    flavor. 
Diablotins — small   balls   of   sweet   meats. 
Diamond-back — the    salt-march-terrapin. 
Diastase — nitrogenous    ferment,    capable    of    convert- 
ing 2000   times  its  bulk  into   grape-sugar. 


Diavolini 66  Duck 

Diavoliui — little     balls     of     sweet     meats,     prepared 

with    chocolates,    almonds    or   pistachios. 
Diet — signifies  the  daily  routine  of  food  for  invalids. 
Dindon — french   for    turkey. 
Dishes — french,   plates;    german,    Schusseln;    derived 

from  latin  diskus,   a  dish. 
Dolmas — see   cabbages. 

Domino   cakes — little  cakes  with  domino  figures. 
Doopiajas — curry   with    onions. 
Dorado — Fr.,    Daurade ;    large   sea-fish ;    Goldmakrele, 

species   blue-fish. 
Dorse,    dorsch — a    variety    of    cod-fish. 
Dotterels — a-  European    plover. 
Doucette — french    for    a    field-salad. 
Dough — the    kneaded    paste    for    making    bread    and 

cakes. 
Dough-birds — delicious    northern   birds ;    broiled    and 

roasted. 
Dough-nuts — made     of    bread-dough,     fried     in     fat ; 

fritters. 
Dove — bird  of   the  pigeon   tribe. 
Dowitcher — grey- snipe. 

Dragees — coated   sweet   meats,    such  as   sugar-plums. 
Drawn  butter — see  butter. 

Dredgers — sprinklers ;    such  as  used  for  sugar. 
Dressing — the    preparation    a    dish   undergoes    before 

being    served. 
Dripping — the   fat  that   falls  from  roasting  meat. 
Drops — name    given    to   various    sweets. 
Ducks— fr.,   Canards;   ger.,   Enten;   see  fowl,   sauces, 

garnishes. 
Duck  a  Is,  Financiere — see  Garniture. 
Duck  a  la  Francaise — with  chestnuts,   onions,  herbs, 

red   wine    sauce. 
Duck  farcie  a  la  Sohemienne — braised  with  truffles, 

mushrooms,    artichoke    bottoms,    madeira    sauce. 
Duck  a  rimperatjice  Eugenie — braised,   stuffed  with 

forcemeat. 
Duck    a    ritalienne — stuffed    with    liver    and    bacon, 

Italian  sauce. 
Duck    3.   la   Mode — cut   in   quarters,    with    Port    wine 

and  herbs. 
Duck     ^-    la    Pere-douillet — braised    in    white    wine, 

garlic    and   herbs. 
Coasted   duck — served   with    apple    sauce. 
Du'^k    f     I'Americaine — stuffed;     served    with    fried 

hominy. 


Duck 67 Durian, 

Duck  a  la  bigarade — with  bitter  orange  sauce. 

Ltuck  a  la  Roaennese — roast  stuffed  with  force-meat 
of  liver,  onion  and  ham;  larded;  see  Bigarade, 
made  of  brandy,  orange  and  liver,  sauce  with- 
the  blood  of  the  duck  from  the  press;  ought  to 
be  made  in  chafg.  dish  before  the  guest;  the- 
duck  sliced  and  well  dipped  in  the  sauce. 

Duck  saute  a  rAmericaine — brown  sauce  with  red 
currant  jelly. 

Duck  saute  a  la  Chasseur — with  mushrooms  and 
venison. 

Duck  saute  a  la  Pecheur — ^with  gray-fish  tails. 

Duck  saute  a  la  Savoysienne — with  bacon  and  on- 
ions,  mushroom  and  tomato  sauce. 

Duck  a  la   Sicilienne — with  rice  and  Sicilian  sauce. 

Duck  Toulouse  style — stuffed  with  calf's  liver,  duck- 
liver,    onion,    garlic    and    bread-crumbs. 

Duck  a  la  Valencienne — with  rice,  stuffed  tomatoea 
and  sausages. 

Duck   a   la   Vigieronne — with   glazed   chestnuts. 

Duck    with    cherries— braised    with    brown    sauce. 

Duck  a  la  Whitehead — filled  with  apple  sauce  and 
green   peas. 

Duck-abattis — duck   giblets. 

Duck-balottines — balls  of  duck  meat. 

—  Capilotade    de    canard ;    cold    roa^t    duck,    cut    up, 

bread-crumbs  and  lemon-peel,  tomatoes  reduced 
with    stock,    chopped    onions    and    parsley. 

—  Civet    de    canard;    duck    giblets    with    black    sour 

sauce. 

—  Civet    de     Canard    a     la    Rhenane ;     giblets    with 

syrup  of  pears. 

—  Crousade  de  Canard  a  la  Chartraine ;  with  sausage- 

force-meat   in   crust. 

—  Emince  de   canard;    minced  duck  rneat. 

—  Salmis    of    duck;     cold,    roasted    duck    with    all- 

spice,   braised    with    olive    oil    and    claret. 
Dulse — a    delicious    sea-weed. 

Dumplings — ger.,  Klosse;  fr.,  Quenelle;  from  dumpj 
a    thick,    ill-shaped    piece. 

—  German      dumplings ;      bread-crumbs      soaked      iik 

milk,  bound  with  eggs  and  butter,  boiled. 
Durian — considered  the  best  fruit  in  the  world; 
larger  than  a  cocoa  nut;  India.  Soft,  mellow 
pulp,  odor  like  rotten  onions,  seeds  are- 
roasted  and  eaten  like  chestnuts;  oval  fruit 
with    prickly-shell. 


Uuxelles 68 Eel 

Duxelles — combination     of     mushroom,     parsley     and 
shallots ;    a   force-meat. 

Easter  eggs — painted  or  colored  eggs. 

Ecarlate  a  la — fr.  term  to  denote  that  the  red  color 

of  meat  is  preserved;  tongue, 
^chaudees — french   for   a    sort   of   cakes,   resembling 

simnels. 
Eclairs — French  pastry,  made  of  very  light  material, 

long    shape,    about    a    fingers    length,    filled    with 

custard,    glazed  with   same   flavor  -  as   filling. 
Ecrevisses — fr.   for   cray-fish;    see   these. 
Eddoes — species    of    Taro ;    a    vegetable. 
Eels — fr.,   anguille;   ger.,  Aale. 

Eel,  in  german  style — with  roots,  white  wine,  mush- 
rooms,   stock   and  veloutese,   poached. 
IBel,   americau   style — saute  in  butter  with  tomatoes, 

white  wine  sauce. 
Eel   a   I'Anet — ^with  dill   sauce. 
Eel,   English  style — poached  with  butter,   herbs  and 

lem.on. 
Eel   a  la  Montpellier — ^with   green  butter. 
^el  au  bleu — boiled. 

Eel   a   la   Hollandaise — with   Dutch    sauce,    boiled. 
Eel   ?-,  la  Bonne-femme — sauce   of  red  wine,   parsley. 
^el  a  la  sauge — ^with  sage. 
Eel  a  la  Bordelaise — with  glazed'  onions. 
Eel    a    la    Bourgeoise — boiled    with    onions,    spices, 

bread-crumbs,    beer,    etc. 
Eel  a  la  Colbert — grilled,  Colbert  sauce. 
"Eel  a  la  Commodore — stuffed,  boiled  in  white  wine, 

fish,    quenelle,    oysters,    piq.    sc. 
Eel    a    la    Conde — ragout    of    madeire,    truffles,    fish 

quenelles,    croustade,    sole   fillets. 
Eel   a   la   Daube — stewed. 
Eel,  Scotch  style — braised  with  herbs  and  vegetables, 

croutons,    sc.    of    stock. 
Eel  a  I'stuvee — stewed. 
Eel  a  la  Quadal  Quivir — ragout  of  eel  in  wine   and 

onions. 
Eel  a  la  Hartford — white  cream,  fricasse  of  eel. 
"Eel    a   ritalienne — with   ragout   of   roes,    mushrooms 

and    Italian    sauce. 
Eel  en  Matelotta  a  la  Normande — cut-up,  white  wine, 

ketchup,    veloute    sauce,    mushroom,    oysters,    fish 

quenelle,    cray-fishtail,    croutons,    ragout. 


Eggs 69 Bordelaise 

Eggs — fr.,  Oeufs;  ger.,  Eier;  for  complete  list  see 
eggs  as  served  in  Europe  further  down.  Take 
note  if  poached,  stuffed,  mollct,  etc.  and  see  for 
special    heading. 

—  Aurore;    hard   boiled,    sliced   in    cream   au    gratin. 
• —  Alliance ;    cold,   hard  boiled,    stuffed  w.   anchovies. 

—  Andalouse ;    poached   on   toast;    see   Creole. 

—  Amboise;     hard     boiled,     halved,     stuffed,     mush- 

room   puree,    Italian   sauce ;    baked  with   grated 
yolks. 

—  Ambassadeure ;    hard   boiled,    stuffed   with    caviar 

and  peppers,    anchovie   sauce ;    cold. 

—  Ambassadeure ;    hot    cream    sauce,    artichoke   bot- 

tom,   gratine,    poached. 

—  Arlequin;     cold,     in     cocotte,     with    jelly,     beets, 

truffles,    caviar,    cream   sauce. 
— -Africaine;    poached,   red  and  green  peppers,   rice, 
sauce    Colbert. 

—  Balzac ;   poached  on  toast,  f oie  gras,   fresh  mush- 

rooms. 
— -  Bayonnaise ;    poached    on    toast,    ham    and    sauce 
Creole. 

—  Bearnaise;    poached   on    toast,    bearnaise    sauce. 

—  Beatrice ;    poached,    breaded,    fried,    artichoke-bot- 

tom,   cream    sauce. 

—  Bechamel;    hard  boiled,    sliced  with   cream   sauce. 

—  Becker;     cold,     poached    in    cocotte    with    lobster 

butter  and  truffles. 

—  Benedictine;    poached   on   ham    and    English   muf- 

fin   with    Hollandaise    sauce    and    truffles. 

—  Bennet;  hard  boiled  stuffed  with  cream  sauce  au 

gratin. 

—  Berrichow;    cooked  in   crust  with   cream. 

• —  Bercy ;  shirred  with  small  sausages  and  tomato 
sauce. 

■ —  Biarritz ;  cold,  soft  boiled  on  toast,  anchovie  but- 
ter,   sardines,   olives. 

—  Birmingham ;   shirred  with  cream  sauce  au  gratin. 

—  Bock;    poached   on  toast  with   tomato   and  cream 

sauce. 

—  Bohemian;    in   tomato;    baked  with   tomato   sauce. 

—  Boildieu;;     poached    on    toast    with    tomato    and 

tomato    sauce. 

—  Bordeaux ;    poached    in   xed    wine    and    Bordelaise 

sauce. 

—  Bordelaise:     poached    on    toast    with    Cepes    and 

Bordelaise    sauce. 


Eggs 70 Czarina 

■ — Bouchere;    poached  on   English   muffin   and  truffle 
sauce. 

—  Cabaret;   poached,  breaded  and  fried  with  bacon, 

glazed  onions   and  brown  sauce. 

—  Campagnarde ;    fried    on    sausage    cake   with   mus- 

tard   sauce. 

—  Canada ;    in  tomato  with   cream  sauce ;   baked. 

—  Capeline;    poached    on    toast,    mushrooms,    sweet 

peppers. 
■ —  Cardinal ;     poached    on    toast    with    truffles    and 
lobster    sauce. 

—  Careme ;     cold,    fried    in    croustade    with    salmon 

and   caviar. 

—  Carnot;    poached    in    artichoke    bottom    with    to- 

mato   sauce   au  gratin. 

—  Catalane ;     cold    on    artichoke    bottom,     with    an- 

chovie    salad,    catalane    sauce. 

—  Catalane ;   hot,   poached  with  julienne  of  red  and 

green  peppers  and  tomato   sauce. 
. —  Cocotte;    in    cocotte   with    mushroom   and    duxelle 
sauce. 

—  Country   style;    shirred    and    scrambled. 

—  Coquelicot;    in  red  pepper   with  cream    sauce  and 

baked. 

—  Godefroi ;    In   cocotte  with  puree  of  partridge   au 

gratin. 

—  Condee;    poached  with  puree  of   celery  au  gratin. 
« — '  Connetable ;      scrambled     with     mushrooms     and 

smoked    beef. 
• —  Colbert ;    poached    on    toast    with    patee    of    foie 
gras   and  colbert   sauce. 

—  Columbus ;    in    green    pepper   with   forcemeat    and 

tomato    saace. 

—  Chasseur ;     poached    with     chopped     ham,     mush- 

room and  brown  sauce. 

—  Chimay;    poached    on   toast   with   goose-liver   and 

cream    sauce.  . 

—  Coqueliquot ;   stewed  in  sweet  pepper,  mushrooms, 

brown  sauce,   chicken  puree. 

—  Chipolata;   shirred  with  chestnuts,   small  sausages, 

onions   and  brown  sauce. 

—  Creole ;   poached  on  toast  with  julienne  of  green 

peppers,    tomato    and  rice. 

—  Croustade ;    cold  with   caviar   and   calf  s-brains,    in 

cocotte. 

—  Czarina;    in    cocotte   with   truffles,    mushroom   and 

cream    sauce   au   gratin. 


Eggs 71 Garioly 

—  De  Lesseps;   shirred  with  calfs  brains  and  brown 

butter. 

—  Demi-deuil;    cold,    poached    with    artichoke    salad 

and   caviar. 

—  Demidoff ;    artichoke    filled    with    scrambled    eggs 

and   truffles   on   top. 

—  Diaz ;    poached    with    ham,    red    peppers    and    to- 

mato   sauce. 

—  Diva;    poached    with    chicken    croquette,    tomato, 

fnie-gras  and  Bearnaise   sauce. 

—  D'Orsay;   cold,  poached  in  cocotte  with  asparagus 

tips   and  mayonnaise. 

—  Duchesse;    poached  on   toast  with   asparagus   tips 

and  cream  sauce. 

—  Duke    (Grand);    poached   with   truffles,    asparagus 

tips  and  brown   sauce. 

—  Diivivier;    scrambled    with    tomatoes    and    cheese. 

—  Duxelle;    poached  with   bacon,    glazed  onions   and 

duxelle   sauce. 
- — Dennis  ''Saint;''  fried  with  Cepes  and  Bordelaise 
sauce,   or  scrambled  with  cepes. 

—  Dreux ;   moulded,   asparagus  on  toast,   truffles  and 

gravy. 

—  Eccosaise;    poached  with   anchovie   or  salmon  and 

tomato    sauce. 

—  Eliotte;    scrambled  w.   fresh  mushroom  in   centre. 

—  English    style ;    fried    on    toast    with   bacon. 

—  Epicurienne;   soft  boiled  on  toast  with  patee  foio 

gras  and  tomato  sauce. 

—  Estragon    a    1'  ;    cold,    poached    in    jelly    with    es- 

tragon,     (Taragon). 

—  Favorit;  poached  in  crustade  with  puree  of  mush- 

rooms. 

—  Feodora;   hard  boiled   sliced  in   cream  au  gratin. 

—  Flamish    style;    omelette   with   spinach. 

—  Flora;    poached   on   crust,    tomato   sauce,    parsley, 

truffles. 

—  Florodora ;  hard  boiled  sliced  in  cream  au  gratin. 

—  Florentine;     poached    with    English    spinach    and 

cheese    au    gratin. 

—  Froufrou;    cold,    poached    with    vegetables    salad 

and  mayonnaise. 

—  Gambetta ;    cold,    poached    or    fried    in    croustade 

with    caviar    and    calfs    brains. 

—  Garioly ;    in   crustade  with  puree   of  chicken,   raw 

egg  and  baked. 


Eggs 72 Livingstone 

•^-^  Germain  (Saint);  poached  with  puree  of  peas 
au    gratin. 

—  Ooranflet;    hard   boiled,    sliced   with   fresh  mush- 

rooms and  cream  sauce  au  gratin. 
• —  Gourmet ;  poached  on  anchovie  toast  with  truffles 
and  truffle   sauce. 

—  Guttenberg ;    cold  with  mousse   de  f oie   gras   and 

jelly. 

—  Gladstone ;   poached  on  toast  with  broiled  tomato 

and    tomato    sauce. 

>*— Grise;  poached  on  toast  with  puree  of  mush- 
rooms,  red  peppers  and  cream  sauce. 

■i—  Hambourgeoise ;  poached  with  chipped  beef  and 
cream  sauce. 

—  Helgoland;     poached    with    shrimps    and    shrimp 

sauce. 

—  Holland  house ;     poached    on    toast    with    broiled 

tomato  and  bearnaise  sauce. 

—  Holland    house;     cold,    poached    in    cocotte    with 

ham,  peppers  and  tomatoes. 

—  Horly ;    shirred  with    cream   au   gratin. 

—  Huguenotte ;    shirred    with    tomatoes    and    tomato 

sauce. 

—  Hunter  style ;  poached,  chopped  ham,  fresh  mush- 

rooms and  Marsala  sauce,  brown. 
— •  Halevy ;    on   toast    supreme    and    tomato    sauce. 

—  Hussarde ;    fried   with    chopped    ham    and   brown 

butter. 

—  Indienne ;   poached  with  rice  and   curry  sauce. 

—  Janette ;    in   cocotte   with   cream   sauce   au   gratin 

and  asparagus  tips. 

—  Jockey  club ;    fried  on   toast,   asparagus  tips   and 

sauce   perigeuex;    foie    gras. 

—  Juliette;  cold,  moulded,  truffles,  pistachios,  brown 

sauce. 

—  Laperuque;  hard  boiled,   stuffed  with  lobster  and 

lobster  sauce. 

—  Lafayette ;    cold,    on    muffin,    slice    of    ham,    slice 

chicken,    poached    egg,     lettuce    leave,    mayon- 
naise. 

—  Leontine ;    poached    on    toast    with    smoked    sal- 

mon and  tomatoes. 

—  Lesseps  de ;   shirred  with  calf s  brains  and  brown 

butter. 

—  Livingstone ;     scrambled    with    marrow     and     to- 

matoes   sauce. 


Eggs 73 Ninon, 

—  Loraine ;    in    cocotte    with    truffles,    bacon,    cream 

sauce   and  cheese  au  gratin. 

—  Lucullus;     poached    on    toast    with    goose    livers 

and   truffles. 

—  Lyon :    scrambled,    chopped    Lyon    sausage,    bacon 

and    parsley. 

—  Macedoine;    cold    cocotte   with   jelly   and   mayon- 

naise. 

—  Mogador ;     poached    with    puree     of     celery    and 

cream  sauce. 

—  Marie  Louise ;   poached  on  artichoke  bottom  with 

puree  of  mushrooms  and  cream   sauce. 

—  Martin ;    shirred  with  bechamel  sauce  and  cheese 

au  gratin. 

—  Marseillaise ;  cold,  hard  boiled,  stuffed,  anchovies, 

gravy,   jelly. 

—  Maryland;    poached  with  ham  and  fried  bananas. 

—  Massena;    poached   on   artichoke   bottom,    marrow 

and   bordelaise   sauce. 

—  Mayor ;    poached   on    toast    with    puree    of   mush- 

rooms and  cream  sauce. 

—  Mazarin ;   in  tomato  with  cream  sauce  and  baked. 

—  Merry ;    scrambled  in  crust,   sweet  peppers,   turtle 

fat. 

—  Metternich;   poached  on  toast  with  truffles,  fresh 

mushrooms    and   brown    sauce. 

—  Meyerbeer;     shirred    with    mutton    kidneys,    truf- 

fles  and  brown  sauce;   sausage. 

—  Mignon;   poached  on  artichoke  bottom  with  peas 

and  truffles. 

—  Milano;     poached    with    risotto     and    cheese    au 

gratin. 

—  Moderne;  poached  on  artichoke  bottom  with  patee 

de  foie  gras. 

—  Montseigneur ;    soft    boiled,    sweet,    crusted. 

—  Montglas;    poached   on    toast    with    brown    sauce. 

—  Montpassant;     poached,     chaud     froid,     vegetable 

salad,  mayonnaise. 

—  Mornay;  poached  with  bechamel  sauce  and  cheese 

au    gratin. 

—  Monaco ;  in  cocotte  with  brown  sauce. 

—  Negus ;   shirred  with  chicken   croquette  and  truf- 

fles. 

—  Neva ;   cold,  poached  with  whipped  cream,   horse- 

raddish   and   caviar. 

—  Ninon ;     poached     with     mashed     asparagus     and 

bernaise  sauce. 


Eggs  74  Rachelle 

—  Nice ;    cold    in    artichoke    bottom   with    vegetable 

salad    and   remoulade    sauce. 

—  Nicoise ;   poached  on  toast  with  julienne  of  ham^ 

red  peppers   and   tomatoes. 
■ —  Nordenskjoelk ;     cold,     moulded    with    truffles    in 
custard. 

—  Norfolk;  fried  with  sauce  piquante. 

—  Normande ;    poached    on    anchovie    toast,    tomato 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Norvegienne ;    cold,    stuffed   with   anchovies. 

—  Odino ;  poached  with  sliced  ham  and  cream  sauce 

au    gratin. 

—  Oudino ;  hard  boiled,  stuffed  duxelle,  cream  sauce^ 

cheese;   baked. 

—  Onslow;    poached   on   patee   de   fois   gras,    truffles 

sauce. 

—  Opera ;   shirred  with  asparagus  tips,   fresh  mush- 

rooms   and    cream    sauce;    chicken    livers. 
■ —  Ostende ;    shirred  with  oysters  au  gratin. 

—  Pamela ;    poached,   breaded   and  fried  with   toma- 

toes and  cream  sauce. 

—  Patty;   poached  on  ham  and  toast  with  bearnaise 

sauce ;    chicken    puree. 

—  Patrie ;  poached  with  cream  sauce  and  fine  herbs. 

—  Penitente ;    poached   with    spinach    and   cream   au 

gratin. 

—  Perigueux ;    poached    on    toast    with   garniture   of 

truffles. 

—  Polignac ;   poached,  breaded  and  fried  on  chicken 

hash   in  potato   bordure. 

—  Polignac ;     cold,     cooked    in    mould,    truffles    and 

tomatoes,    croutons,    jelly. 

—  Portugaise ;     omelette    with    tomato    and    tomato 

sauce. 

—  Posens;    poached    on    toast,    stuffed    with    oyster 

crabs,    cream   and    sherry   wine    sauce. 

—  Pumeroy ;  poached  with  tomato  and  tomato  sauce. 

—  Princesse ;     poached    on    artichoke    bottom    with 

tomatoes  and  bearnaise  sauce;    asparagus. 

—  Provencale ;   fried  in  sweet  oil  on  toast  with  an- 

chovie,   stewed   tomatoes    and   stuffed   olives. 
-^—  Queen    style ;    poached   with    chicken    patties    and 

sauce    allemande. 
•• — ^A  la  reine;    the   same. 

—  Rachelle ;    poached   on   toast   ■w'ith   anchovie   paste 

and    truffle    sauce. 


Eggs 75 Soubise 

—  St.   Raphaele;    poached  with  anchovie  butter,   lob- 

ster  and  lobster   sauce. 

—  Ravigotte;    cold,    poached    in    jelly    with    parsley 

and  mayonnaise. 

—  Renaissance;     poached    in    croustade    with    patee 

de    foie    gras    and    cream    sauce. 

—  Richelieu;    poached    on    toast    with    lobster    and 

lobster   sauce. 

—  Ristori ;    hard    boiled,    stuffed   with    patee    de    foie 

gras  and  cream   sauce, 
- —  Ristori-;    cold,    poached  in   cocotte   with    foie    graa 
and   jelly. 

—  Robinson;    poached    on   toast   with    chicken    livers 

and  truffles  sauce. 

—  Robinson ;    cold,    soft    boiled    on    toast,    ravigotte 

sauce,  horseraddish,  whipped  cream. 

—  Robe   de    chambre ;    in   baked   potato    with    cheese 

au  gratin. 

—  Rolande ;    poached   on  toast  with   hashed   chicken- 

livers  and  cream  sauce. 

—  Rose ;    poached,    tomato   sauce,    sweet   pepper. 

—  Rossini;     poached    on    toast    with    patee    de    foie 

gras   and   truffles. 

—  Roosefeld;    cold,    hard   boiled,    stuffed,    caviar  and 

onions. 

—  Romaine:    poached   on   toast   with   Hollandaise    sc. 

—  Rouennaise;    in   cocotte   with   puree   of  duck. 

—  a  la  Rose;  poached  on  toast  with  red  peppers  and 

brown    sauce. 

—  Rubens;    cold    poached    in    jelly    with    asparagus 

tips. 

—  a   la   Russe;    cold,   poached  with   salad  Russe  and 

caviar. 

—  St.    Dennis;    poached    on    toast    with    cepes    and 

Bordelaise    sauce. 

—  St.   Jean ;    poached  on  fish,    cream   sauce. 

—  Salviny;    shirred  with  tomatoes  and  cream  sauce. 

—  Sarah   Bernhard;    scrambled   in    artichoke   bottom 

with   truffles. 

—  Sapho ;    poached    on    anchovie    toast,    red   peppers 

and   truffles ;    brown    sauce. 

—  Sevillane ;    cold,    poached   with    red    peppers    and 

mayonnaise. 

—  Sevigne;    poached  with   chicken  hash. 

—  Sido ;     in    cocotte    with    truffles,    mushrooms    and 

madeira    sauce. 

—  Soubise ;    poached  with   onion   sauce. 


Eggs 76 Viviere 

—  Soustine;     poached     on     artichoke     bottom     with 

puree  of  partridge. 

—  Suedoise;    cold,   poached  with   salad   suedoise. 

—  Sultana ;  poached  on  egg  plant  with  tomato  sauce. 

—  Suzette;    poached  in   baked   potato   au   gratin, 

—  Scotch    style ;    poached   with    anchovie    butter    or 

smoked    salmon   and    tomato    sauce. 

—  Smithfield;    cold,    poached    on    toast,    ham,    moss. 

—  Stephane ;   omelette  with  calf s  brains  and  parsley. 

—  Stratford;    poached    on    sliced    tomatoes,    Hollan- 

daise    sauce. 

—  Strassburg ;    shirred   with    chopped  ham. 

—  Spanish     style ;     cold,     poached    in    red    peppers^ 

green   peppers   and   tomatoes. 

—  Spanish    style;    hot,    shirred    with    tomatoes,    on- 

ions and  green  peppers. 

—  Swedish    style;    shirred   with    anchovies    and    sar- 

dines   au    gratin. 

—  Sybol;   in  baked  potatoe  with  cheese  au  gratin. 

—  Tartuff ;    shirred  with    chopped   bacon    and   truffle 

sauce. 
■ —  Tartare ;    cold,   poached  with   Tartare   sauce,   with 
pickles,    capres,   beets,    anchovies. 

—  Tivoli;    poached   on    crusts   with    cream    sauce    au 

gratin. 

—  Touraine ;     poached     on     artichoke     bottom     with 

cream    sauce   au   gratin. 
•^  Turque ;   shirred  with  chicken  livers,  brown  sauce 
and  truffles. 

—  Theo ;    shirred    with    chopped    sweet    breads    and 

cream    sauce   au   gratin. 

—  Tripe ;     hard     boiled,     sliced     with     onions     and 

bechamel   sauce. 

—  Tyrolienne ;     cold,    poached,     sliced    tomatoes    and 

sauce  sevillaine. 

—  Varneuille ;    poached   in    croustade    with   puree    of 

mushrooms    and    cream    sauce. 

—  Victoria;    poached   on    toast  with  mushrooms   and 

cream   sauce. 

—  Victor    Emanuel ;    shirred    on    top    of    salami    and 

sliced    tomato    au    gratin. 

—  Villeroy;   poached,   breaded  and  fried  with  cream 

sauce. 

—  Virginie ;    cold,   soft  boiled  on  ham  mousse,  whip- 

ped   cream. 
• — ■  Yivitre  ;    scrambled  with   red  peppers. 


Eggs — Z 77 Eggs,  mixed  cooking 

—  Volunteer;     poached,     tomatoes,     bechamel     sauce^ 

and   baked. 

—  Walewska ;   stuffed  and  horded  wi4h  cream  sauce. 

—  Waldorf;    poached  with  chopped  truffles  and  peri- 

gueux    sauce. 

—  Westphalienne;      fried     with     westphalian      ham, 

hashed  potatoes  and  brown  butter. 

—  Westphalienne ;     cold    with    westphalian    ham    in 

jelly. 

—  Weyler;    poached   in   potato   bordure,    truffles   and 

bechamel   sauce. 

—  Zingara   poached   on   toast   with   julienne   of   ham, 

green  peppers,    mushrooms,    tomatoes. 

EGGS    ALPHABT<]TICALLY    RANGED    IN    ORDER 

OF    COOKING— AS    KNOWN    IN    EUROPE; 

SEE    GARNISHES. 

—  a  I'Africaine;   shirred  with  fried  ham. 

—  a    I'Alsatienne;    fried    on    sour    crout    with    saute 

potatoes. 

—  a     I'Alsatienne;     poached    with    slices     of    goose 

liver. 

—  a    I'Americaine;    on    halves    of    tomatoes,    stuffed- 

lobster  and  forcemeat. 

—  a  r Admiral   Courbe;    in   crusts  with  truffled  hash 

of    partridges. 

—  Poached   a   I'Aurore;    with   tomato    sauce. 

—  a    I'Ardennaise;    egg-yolks    on    whipped    whites; 

baked. 

—  a  I'Argenteuil ;    scrambled  with  asparagus  tips. 

—  a  I'Avignonnaise;   hard  boiled,   halfed,   forcemeat, 

white    sauce,    baked. 

—  a    la   Bagnere    de   Luchon ;    in    small    moulds    with 

madeire    sauce    and    forcemeat. 

—  en  Belle-vue;  with  aspic  jelly. 

• — au  Basillic;   with  stuffing  of  basil. 

—  a   la  Bennet;    stuffed  with   madeire    sauce. 

—  au  beurre   noir;    with  black  butter. 

—  a  la  Boitel ;  moulds  with  mushrooms  and  poached 

eggs. 

—  a     la    Bonne-femftie ;     with     chopped    onions    and' 

vinegar. 

—  a   la   Brochette ;    on   skewers. 

—  a  la   Diable;    fried,    turned  with  vinegar. 

—  a  la  Savoyarde ;  fried  with  saute  potatoes,   cheesft- 

and  cream. 


^ggs,  soft  b  oiled 78 Eggs,  Scrambled 

•Oeuf's  mollet — soft  boiled  eggs,  shell  removed  by 
first  blowing  in  boiled  egg  to  loosen  the  skin; 
see   page   82. 

Oeuf's  brouille — scrambled  eggs;  all  following  are 
scrambled   t6  next   heading. 

—  a    la    d'Aumale;     with    puree    of    tomatoes    and 

calf's  kidneys. 

—  a   la   Balzac;    with    shredded   truffles   and   tongue. 

—  a   la   Bordelaise ;    with  fried   cubes   of  bread  and 

mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Bresilienne ;    in    moulds    with    tomato    salad 

and  anchovies. 
'—  a    la    Bretonne ;    with    brown    puree    of    onions. 
"— —  en  Cannelons ;  in  puff -paste  canes. 

—  a    la    Cardinale ;    with   cray-fish   tails. 

—  a     la     Carnot ;     with    mushrooms,     cock's     combs, 

cock's    kidneys. 

—  a   la    Comtesse ;    with  green   asparagus   and   cray- 

fish tails. 
"^  a   la   Dieppoise;   with   oyster   and  mushroom  pat- 
ties. 

—  a    I'Espagnole;    with   minced   peppers    and   puree 

of   tomatoes. 
•^  a   la   Francaise ;    with   truffles   filled   in   artichoke 

bottom. 
• — a    I'Hambourgeoise;    with    smoked    herrings. 

—  a  rindienne;  with  curry  and  cayenne. 

—  a  la  Livingstone;    toast   spread  with  goose  liver- 

paste. 

—  a    la   Lyonnaise ;    with   onions. 

—  a   la  Magda;   with  herbs,   mustard   and   cheese. 

—  a    la    Marseillaise ;    with    tomatoes    and    garlic. 

—  a  la   Salamanque;   truffles  filled  in  artichoke  bot- 

tom. 

—  a    la    Montgelas ;    with    ragout    of    truffles,    tongue 

and    goose-livers. 

—  aux    morilles ;    with    morrels. 

—  a   la   Mornay ;    with    shrimp-tails   and   mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Offenbach;    with    thunny-fish    tails    and    an- 

chovies. 
' — a   rOrientale;    with    tom.    and    anchovie   butter. 
• — au   Petit    Sale;    with   salt   pork,    (bacon). 

—  a   la   Presidence;    same   as   O^not. 

• —  a  la   Princesse ;    with   truffles   and   cheese   in  pat- 
ties. 
'—  a  la  Printanniere ;  with  green  peas. 

—  a    la    Provencale ;    with    tomatoes. 


Eggs,  scrambled 79 Eggs  in  cocotte 

• — a  la  Quirinale;  with  truffles. 

—  a    la    Reine ;    with    chicken    meat,    filled    in    hard 

boiled  eggs. 

—  a  la  Schoenfeld;  in  rice  crusts  with  tomato  sauce. 

—  a  la  Suisse;   with  cheese. 

—  a    la    Turque;    with    sliced    tomatoes,    stewed    in 

oil. 

—  a    la    Valencienne ;    with    puree    of    peppers    and 

tomatoes. 

—  au  Verjus ;   with  verjuice. 

—  a  la  Villemain ;   in  cases  with  chicken  forcemeat, 

puree    of  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Cairoli ;  in  small  moulds  with  truffled  chicken 

forcemeat. 
Oeufs  en  Caisse — eggs  in  cases. 
Oeuf's  en  Caises — 

—  a  la  Bonne  Femme;  with  fried  bread-crumbs. 

—  a   la   Carola ;    with   mushrooms,    tongue   and   truf- 

fles. 

—  a    la    Edison;    with    forcemeat    of    liver,    chicken 

meat    and    truffles. 

—  en  Caises  Grilles;   in  cases  broiled. 

—  a  la  Jaures ;  with  truffles,  cray-fishtails  and  ham. 

—  a  la  Lorraine ;   with  cream   and  grated  cheese. 

—  a   la  Luculle ;    with   goose  liver  and  truffles. 

—  a  la  Marignan;  with  forcemeat  of  chicken,  mush- 

room   and    yolk. 

—  a  la  Mignon;  with  forcemeat  of  veal  and  ham. 

—  a  la  Montford;  fish  forcemeat  and  cray-fish  sauce. 

—  a  la   Suisse ;    chicken  forcemeat   and  truffles. 

—  a  la  Vatel ;   with  calf s  sweet  breads,   truffles  and 

pur6e    tomato. 

—  a   la   Cardinal ;    with  salmon  forcemeat  and  cray- 

fish   saure. 

—  en  chaud  froid ;  stuffed  eggs  in  cases  with  hashed 

aspic  jelly. 

—  a  la   Cherbourgeoises ;   in  small  moulds  with  fish 

force-meat.      (A    Cheval,    two    eggs   mounted   on 
a   beefsteak.) 
Oeuf's   en   cocotte — eggs   in   small   cups. 

—  a    la    Bedford;    with   liver   forcemeat. 

—  a  la  Bonefemme ;   with  breadcrumbs   and  eggs. 

—  a  la  Creme  au  gratin;  with  cream  browned. 

—  a    la    Gouffe ;    with    sour    cream    and    cheese. 

—  a   la  Lacontine ;   with  fish  forcemeat  and   tomato 

puree. 


Eggs  in  cocotte  80  Eggs,  hard  boiled 

^1  -^^^■■^— ^— 

■ —  a    la    Madeleine ;     chicken    forcemeat    and    white 

sauce. 
■—  a  la   Marly ;   cray-fish  forcemeat. 

—  a   la    Commere ;    see    sweets. 

—  a  la  Comtesse ;   soft  eggs  dipped  in  yellow  sauce, 

egged,    breaded,    fried. 
Oeufs    a   la  coq[ue — plain   boiled   eggs. 

—  en    Surprise ;    boiled,     stuffed    with    game    force- 

meat. 
^  a  la   Coque  Truffle ;   boiled  together  with  truffles. 

—  a   la    Creole ;    with   brown   tomato    sauce. 
• —  a    la    Demoiselle ;    with    almonds. 

' — a  la  Duguesclin;  on  breadcrusts  filled  with  cray- 
fish ragout. 

Oeufs   Dure — hard  boiled  eggs. 

•^  a  la  Bourgeoise ;  with  onions,  nutmeg,  stock 
with    flour    and    milk. 

—  a  la  Garfield ;   hard  boiled  with  vermicelli  paste. 

—  a  la  Germaine ;  with  lobster  and  vegetable  salad. 

—  a  la  Granville ;   sliced,   fried  in  onion  sauce. 

—  a    la    Hyde ;    stuffed    with   mushroom    sauce. 

—  a    rimperiale;    with    sardines   and   stoned   olives. 

—  a    ritalienne;    with    anchovies,    herbs    and    sour 

cream. 

—  a  la  Justine ;   with  pheasant  forcemeat  and  truf- 

fles,   jellied. 

—  a  la  Mathurine ;  with  oyster  and  onion  ragout. 

—  a  la  Meuniere ;   with   cray-fish  tails,   smoked  sal- 

mon,   cheese   and   baked. 

—  a  la   Moscovite ;    stuffed  with   Russian  salad. 

—  a  la  Pauvre  f emme ;  with  boiled  potato  &  cream. 

—  a  la  Percheronne ;   with  potato  and  cream  sauce. 

—  a    la    Polonaise ;    lobster,    pickled    cucumber    and 

oysters   in  mayonnaise. 

—  a     la     Religieuse ;     covered    with    butter,     mixed 

with  cheese. 
Ouefs   dure   en   rissole — baked  in  patties. 

—  a   la  Robert — with  white  niustard  sauce. 

—  durs  sur  rotie ;   on  toast,   sliced.^ 

—  a  la    Soubise;   with  puree   of  onion. 

—  durs  a  la   Suedoise ;   with  mayonnaise,   cucumbers 

and    lobster    corral. 

—  a  la  Sultane;   stuffed  with  red  peppers. 

—  au    Veloute ;     in    white     sauce    with    butter    and 

pastry. 

—  en   vol   au   vent ;    filled  in   puff-paste    shells. 


Eggs,  hard  boiled 81 Eggs,  fried 

—  a  rEmilie;    shirred  on  veal  forcemeat  balls  with 

tomato   sauce. 

—  Enveloppes ;    covered   with   egg-volks,    capers,    an- 

chovies,  whipped  whites;    baked. 

—  a   I'Espagnole;    with  rice. 
Oeufs  farcie — stuffed  eggs. 

—  a  I'Allemande;   with  bread  and  seasoning. 

—  a    la    Carmelite ;    with    sorrel   onion   and   parsley, 

forcemeat. 

—  a  la  Chasseur ;  with  game  forcemeat. 

—  a   la   Comtesse ;   with  veal  forcemeat,   browned. 

—  a    la    Constance ;    with    chicken    meat,    ham    and 

mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Danoise;   with  lobster  salad. 

—  a  la  Dauphine ;   with  chicken  and  anchovie  force- 

meat. 

—  a  la  Diable ;  devilled. 

—  a  la  Gentillehomme ;   with  game  pattie  forcemeat. 

—  a  la  Mentonnaise ;  with  thunny  fish  &  anchovies. 

—  a    la    Meridionale ;    with    mushroom,    puree    and 
onions. 

—  a   la   Milanaise ;    stuffed,   breaded,    tomato    sauce. 

—  a    la    Parmentier;    in   baked   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Veron;    stuffed   with    chicken    puree    on    ar- 

tichoke   bottom. 
Oeufs  frits — fried  eggs, 

—  a  I'Americaine;  fried  eggs  with  ham  fried,  puree 

tomatoes. 
- — -a  I'Anglaise;  on  fried  slices  of  ham  and  toast. 
— -a  la  Beranger;   with  fried  artichoke  bottoms  and 

tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Bucheronc;    with  baked  potatoes   and  chives. 

—  a    la    Gambetta ;    shirred    and    poached    on    toast 

with  onion  puree. 

—  a  la  Henri  quatre;   in  small  flat  moulds. 

—  a    la    Huegenotte ;    baked   as    omelette    with   mut- 

ton-juice. 

—  a   la   Jardiniere;   with  vegetable   salad. 

—  a    la    Lorraine;    with    cheese,    cream    and   bacon; 

baked. 

—  a    la    Lune;    with   Parmesan   cheese. 

—  a    la    Marechale ;    in    small   moulds   with    anchovie 

butter. 

—  a   la   Meyerbeer ;    with   mutton  kidneys. 

—  a    la    Midhat    Pasha;    with    fried    onions. 

—  a   la   ?''^irabeau;    with    goose-liver  with   force-meat 

border. 


Eggs,  fried ^ 82 Eggs,  soft  boiled 

• —  a  la  Mireille ;   on  crusts  filled  with  cocks  combs. 

—  a   la   Jorkshire ;    on    toast   with,   broiled   ham,    to- 

mato   sauce. 

Oeufs    au    mirroire — shirred    eggs;  germ.,    Spiegel- 

eier;    in   small   special  porcelaine  dish. 

—  a    la    Belle    Blanche ;    with    sliced  cucumbers    and 

cream    sauce. 
• — a    I'etudiante;    with    ragout    of    mutton    kidneys 

and   truffles. 
• — a  la  Jules   Janin;   with  slices  of  goose-liver. 

—  a   la   Monacco ;    with   tomatoe   sauce. 

- —  a  la   Moldavique ;   with   slices  of  pumpkin. 

- —  a  la  Montagnarde ;  with  kidneys,   mushrooms  and 

sausages. 
■ —  a    la    Montargis ;    with   ragout   of    chicken   livers, 

tongues    and    mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Omnr    Pasha ;    with    onions,    cheese. 

—  a   la   Pecheuse ;    with    oil    sardines. 

—  a     la    Persane ;     on    fried    onions    with    cayenne 

pepper. 
- —  a   la   Philippsbourg ;    on   layer   of   forcemeat. 
■ — •  a  la  Piemontaise ;  with  slices  of  cheese  w.  cream. 

—  a  la  Provencale ;   with  tomatoes,  fried  in  oil. 

—  a  la  Providence ;  rings  of  mashed  potatoes,  filled 

with    mutton    kidneys. 

—  a  la  Rossini;  with  goose  liver  and  madeire  sauce. 

—  a  la    Savarin ;    forcemeat,   rings  of   snipe,    chicken 

and   gooseliver. 

—  a   la    Troubetzkoy;    on    artichoke   bottom,    stuffed 

with   truffle   puree    of    game. 

—  a  la  Turbico ;   garnished  with  broiled  sausages. 

—  a    la   Vanderbilt;    with    green   peppers,    tomatoes, 

shrimps,  madeira  sauce. 

—  a   la   Venitienne ;    on   layers   of   sardines,   peppers 

and   tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Mode    de    Caen ;    with    Spanish    onions. 

—  a  la  Magenta ;   on  bread  crusts,  filled  with  cray- 

fish and  asparagus. 
Oeufs  moUets — soft  boiled  eggs. 
—  en  Belle-vue;   with   aspic-jelly. 

—  a  la  Berliosz ;  on  a  layer  of  mushroom  and  part- 

ridge meat. 

—  a  la  Boulonnaise ;  with  salad  of  cauliflower,   cray- 

fish,  etc. 
- — a   la   Bourgignonne ;    on    scrambled   eggs    in  patty 
cases. 

—  a  la  Catalane;  with  a  ragout  of  crabs. 


Eggs,  soft  boiled 83 Eggs,  poached 

—  a    la    Chantilly;    with    puree    of    onions    in    paste 

border. 

—  a  la  Dubois;   in  lobster  shells  with  lobster  meat. 

—  a    la    Nantna ;    with   ragout   of   cray-fish. 

—  a    la    Raphael;    with    cray-fishtails    and    anchovie 

sauce. 

—  a   la    Sidney;    with    sauce   of  onions   and  curry. 

—  a  la  Verdi ;  with  puree  of  onions  and  mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Niege;    snow    eggs    with    custard. 

—  a    la    Pere-douillet;    whipped    with    white    sauce 

and   gravy. 
Oeufs  Pochee — Verlorene  Eier;  poached  eggs. 

—  a  la  Bourgignonne ;  on  toast  with  red  wine  sauce. 

—  a  la  Bonefoy;  with  puree  of  truffles  and  pheasant. 

—  a    la    Beuacq;    poached    on    halves    of    broiled    to- 

matoes,  sauce  bearnaise. 

—  a  la  Bonvalet;  in  breadcrusts  w.  bearnaise  sauce. 

—  a    la    Brebant ;    on    puff -paste    patties    with    puree 

of    quails    and   goose-liver. 

—  a  la  Cafe  Anglais;   in  forcemeat  rings  with  cray- 

fish  sauce. 

—  a   la   Cecile ;    breaded   and  baked. 

—  a  la   Celestine ;    on  bread-crusts,   filled  with  hash 

of   crabs. 

—  a  la   Chabrillat ;   on  patties  with  goose-livers  and 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Chantilly;    in    patties,    filled    with    salpicon 

of     truffles;     cream,     pea     puree     and    whipped 
Mousseline     sauce. 

—  a    la    Chartres ;    with    rings    of    tongue    and   puree 

of  onions  in  porcellaine    cases. 

—  a  la  Chivry;   in  forcemeat  rings  with  white  sauce. 

—  a    la    Chouvaloff;     on    artichoke    bottom,     stuffed 

with  goose-liver  forcemeat. 

—  a  la   Clermont;    on  bread-crusts  with  mushrooms. 

—  in  cradles ;    in  baked  potatoes  with  chicken  force 

and  poached   egg. 

—  a  la   Cussy;   on  bread-crust  with  bread  and  truf- 

fles. 

—  a  la  Daumont;  in  rings  of  chicken  force-meat  and 

onion    sauce. 

—  a  la  Farnaise;  on  forcemeat  w.  puree  of  tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Garlin;    on  artichoke  bottoms. 

—  a   la    Godefroy;    in   porcellaine    cases    with   puree 

of    pheasant. 

—  a  la  Gounod;   with  tomato  sauce  and  fried  mush- 

rooms. 


Eggs,  poached 84 Endive 

—  a    la    Chatelaine ;    on    sliced    truffles    with    cream 

and    cheese    haked. 

—  a  la  Heloise ;   with  a  border  of   tomato  puree. 

—  a  la  Marguery ;   in  rings  of  artichoke  puree  with 

rings    of    tongue. 

—  a  la  Chamounix ;  with  puree  of  chestnuts. 

—  a    la    Prince    Egon ;    in    cream    sauce    with    cray- 

fish-tails. 

—  a    la   Rothschild;    on   bread-crusts   with   puree    of 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Skobeleff;    with    taragon   gravy    in  mould. 

—  a  la   Stuers ;   with  trufiie  on  toast,  with  puree  of 

goose-livers. 

—  a    la    d'Uxelles;    with   uxelle    sauce,    breaded   and 

fried. 

—  a  la  Valentine ;  on  salad  of  artichoke  with  tomato 

salad. 

—  a  la  Yef our ;  with  white  sauce  on  crusts  on  cray- 

fish and  mushroom. 

—  a  la  Polignac ;    in  small  moulds  with  truffles  and 

Dutch    sauce. 

—  a  la  Zuzenne ;   in  moulds  with   cheese   and  cream 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Tomery;    with    cream    and    chicken    force- 

meat, ii  5  '^^^ 

—  a    la    Tyrolienne ;    with    tongue    and    mushrooms, 

hash;     stuffed. 
■ — a    la    Urbain-Dubois;    in    lobster    shells    with    lob- 
ster-meat. 
Egg  plant — fr..  Aubergine;   germ.,  Melanzanapfel  or 
Eierfrucht;    fruit  allied   to   tomatoes. 

—  a   la    Chambord;    with   scrambled   eggs. 

—  a  la   Chatelaine ;    stuffed  with   chicken  force-meat. 

—  Farcie    a    la    Turque ;    stuffed    with    mutton    and 

rice. 

—  Grilles     a     i  Orientale ;     broiled    with     anchovies, 

shallots  and  tomato  sauce. 

—  a  la  Lyonnaise ;   with  puree  of  onions. 

—  a    la    Viard;     stuffed    with    force    of    bread,    an- 

chovies   and    seasoning. 
Elder — Fr.,    Sureau;    Ger.,    Hollunder. 
Elva — a   Turkish  pudding. 
Emulsions — milk,   oil   and  water   with   flavor. 
Endive — Fr.,   Chicoree-endive ;    Ger.,   Endivie;   mostly 
used  as   salads. 


Endive  Riche  85  Beigneta 

Endive  a  la  Eiche — cold,  cream  dressing,  chopped, 
beets  in  lettuce  leafe,  chopped  truffles,  mayon- 
naise, chopped  white  and  yellow  of  eggs,   cresson. 

Entrees — lit.,  brought  in ;  meaning  the  opening  f  ire- 
of  light  artillerie  before  the  remove,  which  takes 
and  keeps  the  chief  place ;  fr.,  relevee. 

Entremets — lit.  go  between;  side-dishes,  now  usu- 
ally  sweets  as  punches  and  sherbets. 

Entre-nous — soft  clams,  oysters,  boneless  frog-legs, 
minced  mushrooms,  saute  Newburgh,  sherry, 
cream   sauce    with   eggs. 

Entremets  de  douceur  chaud — hot,  sweet  dishes. 
For  any  missing,    see  fruits  further  down. 

Abricots  a  la  Colbert — halfed  in  syrup  with  rice, 
yolks,    maccaroons,    baked;    sweet    sauce. 

—  a  la  Conde ;   halfed,  in  syrup  with  rice,  almonds, 

rice   crusts,   sweet  sauce. 

—  a  la  Jefferson ;   halved,    cherries,   almonds,  moulds 

with    cornfarina,    yolks,     apricots. 

—  a    la    Portugaise ;    vanille    rice    with    yolks,    pine- 

apples,   apricots,    sweet    sauce. 

—  a  la  Sultane ;  vanille  buiscuits  with  rice  in  £ream» 

pistache,    apricots,    sweet    sauce. 

—  a   la   Victoria;    bordure   genoise   of  rice,    apricots, 

sweet  sauce. 

—  a   la   Bourdalou;    semolina    socle;    apricots,    sweet 

sauce. 

—  Annanas  a  la  Richelieu ;   pineapple  in  syrup  with 

cake,   sweet   sauce. 

Annanas  a  la  Creole — vanille  rice  with  yolks  ancl 
pineapples,    sweet    sauce. 

Almaviva — varicolored    semolina    pudding. 

All  garnitures   are   sometimes   applied  to  one  or   the 

other  fruits ;    see  all  through  if  you  find  one  special 

fruit  dressing   missing. 

Baba  aux  fruits — ou  chocolat;  rum  soaked  cake 
with  fruits,  glazed  with  chocolate,  chocolate 
sauce    or    any    other    suggested    dressing. 

Beignets   d'Abricots — apricot   fritters. 

lieignets  a  la  Eoyale — fritters  of  apricots  with  al- 
mond-paste,   maccaroons,    chocolate    sauce. 

Bananes   frits — fried  bananas. 

Beignets  a  I'Allemande — Faschingkrapfen;  plaia 
batter  fried  in  oil;  sometimes  filled  with  marma- 
lade. 

—  a    r Alliance;    apple    and    peach    fritters. 


Sweets 86 Bouillie 

—  a    la    BavatdiseiSpritzstrauben;    batter    of    white 

wine,   with  kirsh, 

—  a    la    Berlinoise ;    plain    batter    with    maccaroons, 

sabayon     sauce,     sometimes     filled    with    jam; 
Berliner    Pfannkuchen. 
'—  a  la  Chantilly ;    cream  cheese  fritters. 

—  a    riddlesleigh;    peach    and   banana    fritters. 

—  a    rimperatrice;    pineapple    and    maccaroon    frit- 

ters. 
"^  a   la   Marie   Louise ;    with   almond   cream. 

—  a  la   Genoise ;    of  maccaroons  with  orange  water. 

—  Mondains;   in   "S"    shape  with  rum,  plain  batter. 

—  a  la   Montagnarde;    with   currant  jelly. 

~— a  la  d' Orleans;   custard  fritters  with  apricot  jam, 

—  de    Pain    Perdu;     bread    fritters;     Arme    Ritter; 

bread    slices,    milk    soaked   in   batter. 
'—  a  la  Paysanne ;  with  madeire,  almonds,  cinnamon. 

—  a    r  Infante,    with    almond   paste. 

' — a    la    St.    Amand;    with    custard    cream. 

—  a  la   Polonaise;   with  almonds  and  marmelade   of 

appricots. 

—  de     Pommes     a     la     Bavaroise;     apple     slices     in 

brandy,    flour;    baked. 

—  de    Pommes    a    la    Dauphine;    apple    fritters    with 

apricot  marmelade. 

—  a  la  Portugaise ;   rice  fritters  with  marmelade. 

—  a    la    Singapore;    pineapple    fritters    with   jelly. 

—  Souffles;    puff   fritters. 

—  Souffles  a  la  Medicis ;  puff  fritters  with  chocolate. 

—  a  la   Sultan ;    small   fritters  with  orange   syrup. 
- —  en    Surprise ;    apple    fritters. 

—  a   la    Triumvirat;    three    sorts    of  fruit   fritters. 
• — a    la    Varsovienne;    with    pear    and   pineapples. 

—  a   la   Viennoise ;    cream  fritters  with  apricot  mar- 

melade. 

—  Bibinca    dosee;    of    cocoanuts    and    rice;    baked, 

Portuguese    pudding. 
Buiscuit    a    la     Chantilly — buiscuits    with    whipped 

cream. 
Bordure  de  fruits — ^border  of  fruits. 

—  a  la   Milanaise;    with   chestnuts. 

— —  de  Madeleine   au  riz ;    cake  border  with  rice  and 
whipped  cream. 

—  de  Rix  a  la  Duchesse;  of  rice  with  stewed  apples. 

—  de    Marrons    a    la    Framboise;    of    chestnuts    with 

rice. 
Bouillie — Milchbrei ;     porridge    of    milk. 


Sweets 87 Frttlta 

Brown  betty — bread  pudding  with  apples. 

Bubbert    a   I'est-prussienne — prussian    egg   puddings 

Cannelons — puff-paste    rolls. 

—  Frits    aux    cerises;    fried    with    cherries. 
Cap  pudding — pudding  with   cap   of  raisins. 
Charlotte    a    la    Brunoise — thimble    mould    of    cak» 

with   assorted  fruits. 

—  a    la    d'Estree;    with    cream    custard   and   apples^ 

—  a    la    Minute;     apple    charlotte    with    cinnamon^ 

lemon. 

—  a  la  Polonaise ;  with  chocolate  and  vanilla  cream^ 

—  a  la   Reine ;    with   apricot  marmelade,   pineapples^ 

strawberrie    puree. 

• —  a  la  Westphalienne ;    of  brown  bread. 

Chausson — cake  of  the  shape  of  half  moon. 

Coings  au  beurre — quinces,   baked  with  butter. 

Cotelettes  en  surprise — puff-paste  cutlets  with  mar- 
melade. 

■ — Creme  aux  Reine-claudes;  custard  pudding  with 
green    gages.  i 

Creme  frits — a  la  Maintenon ;  chestnut  and  apple. 
cream,    fried. 

Crepes  a  I'allemande — pancake  german  style;  very 
thin   and  big. 

—  a    la   Dejazet;    with   maraskino    and   coffee    cream. 

—  a  la  Dugniol ;  thin  with  pastry  cream  and  brandy^ 

rolled    up. 

—  a  la  Provencale;   thin  with  orange  water. 
Croissants    de    nouilles    aux    cerises — crescents    oi 

noodles    with    cherries. 
Croquettes,  a   la    St.    Simon — apple    crust,    pancakes 

with   pistachios,    apples,    fried. 
Croustade    a    la   Venitienne — meringue;    crust    patty 

with   arrow-root   custard. 
Croute   au   fruits   a   I'ltalienne — fried   crusts   of   ob- 
long shape  with  marmelade  with  apple   and  pear 

quenelles. 
Dampfnouilles — Dampfnudeln ;      puffed     fritters ;      a 

ki»d   of    beignet   with   vanille    sauce. 
Darioles   aux  Nouilles — cream   tarts   or  moulds  with 

nuddles. 
Diablotins     aux     amandes — Mandelplatzchen;     small^ 

round    cakes    with    almonds. 
Fruits  a  la  Creole — milk  rice  with  yolks  and  cream» 

sweet   sauce  and  fruits. 
Fruits  a  la  Madeleine — salpicon  of  fruits  in  biscuit 

border. 


Sweets 88 Pannequets 

Fruits — Meringue     covered    with    sugared    egg-froth, 
and   baked. 

—  a  la  Cussy;   border  of  jelly  with  fruits. 

" —  Master  Joe ;  salpicon  of  fruits  with  oranges, 
strawberries    and    kirsh. 

—  a   la   Reine ;   pudding,   Diplomate  border,   salpicon 

of    fruits,    maraskino,     syrup. 
• — Turban    de    fruits;    rumsoaked    babacake;    syrup, 
salpicon    of    fruits. 

—  a  la   Maltaise;   with  rice  pudding  and  jelly, 

" —  a  la  Montreuil ;    socle  of  half  rice  and  semolina, 

syrup    and    fruits. 
' — a    rOrientale;    poached    fruits     (peaches)    kirsh, 

maraskino,    strawberries  and  vanilla  ice  cream, 

—  a  la  Conde;   rice  socle,   syrup,  jam,   kirsh. 

' — Imperatrice;  rice-socle,  fruits,  syrup,  jam,  cov- 
ered with  rice. 

" — en  Macedoine  ou  salad;  minced  fruits  with  kirsh 
and  maraskino,  (in  America  sometimes  fresh 
fruits    served  with   French   dressing). 

—  Timbale    d'Aremberg;    thimble    mould    of    pattie- 

paste  with  fruits  and  syrup. 
Gateau    a   la   Benoiton — of   buiscuit   with   pineapple 
for   other   cakes    see   pastry,    cakes   and  puddings. 

—  Gruau    a    la    creme    f ouette ;    grits    with   whipped 

cream. 
Marions  a  la  creme — chestnuts  with  whipped  cream. 
Mince-pie    a    I'Anglaise — of    currants,    raisins,    peel, 

siiet,    niitmeg    and    sherry-brandy. 
Nouilles  a  la  Palfy — ^noodles  with  vanilla  cream, 
Oeufs  a  la  Demoiselle — eggs  with  almond  biscuit. 
Oeufs    a    la    Commere — with   pistachios    and   almond 

buiscuit. 
Omelette    a    la    Celestine — with    custard    cream;    for 

others   see   letter    "O, "    eggs,   omelette. 
Pain    a   la    Saxonne — mould    of    milk,    flour,    butter 

and  peel,  with  -sabayon  sauce. 
Pain  de  Mecctue — a  kind  of  cream  puffs,   small. 
Pannequets   a  I'Americaine — American   wheat  ^ouj, 

batter    cakes. 

—  a  la  Celestine ;  with  orange  cream  and  marmelade. 

—  aux    Confitures ;    with    marmeTade ;    served   hot. 

—  a  la  Mancelle ;  with  puree  of  chestnuts  and  ma- 

raskino, 

—  a   la    Parisienne ;    very   thin   pancakes   with   mac- 

caroons. 


Sweets 89 Poirea 

—  a  la  Rossini ;   thin  pancakes  with  marmelade  and 

pastry   cream. 

—  a  la  Royale;   pyled  on  crust  with  marmelade  and 

vanille    cream,     meringue. 

—  a   la    Salamanque;    with  puree   of   chestnuts. 

—  a  la  Sherry ;  very  thin  with  sauce  of  brandy  and 

orange   juice   and  pastry   cream. 
— •  a  la  Viennoise;    thin,    rolled  up,    several   together 
with   currants. 

—  a    la    Suzette;    the    same    as    Sherry-sauce,    made 

before    the    guest    in    chafing    dish,     pancakes 

soaked    in    this    sauce ;     brandy    first,    orange 

juice,     pastry    cream. 

Peches  a  I'Andalouse — with  marascino,  rice  in  buis- 

cuit    border;    peaches;    for    other    dressings    see 

fruits. 

—  a   la   Maintenon;    peaches   with  buiscuit   and   cus- 

tard   cream,    fruits,    apple-jelly. 

—  a   la   Munichoise ;    with  baked   cup-shapes   of  rum- 

soaked    cakes. 

—  a    la    Richelieu;    on   buiscuits    with    kirsh,    fruits. 

—  a  la   Stevens ;   with   small  tapioca   moulds. 

—  Talleyrand;    with    jam,    fruits   maraskino. 

—  a  la  Piemontaise;    stuffed,   pralines  with   croutons 

and   buiscuits. 
Peaches  a  la  Windsor — in  a  cup  of  sponge  cake. 
Petite  Croustade  a  la  Maltaise — small  noodle  crusta 

with    salpicon    of    fruits. 
Petits  pain  a  la  Albany — small  loaves   of  milk  and 

eggs. 
Petits  pain   a  la  Mecque — small   cream  puffs,   filled 

with    cream    or   fruits. 
Petits  compiegnes  au  cafe — small  cakes  with  coffee 

icing. 
Petits    souffles    au    chocolat — small    petit    four;     of 

chocolate,   with  cake  and  chocolat  mousse. 
Pie  a  la  courge — pumpkin  pie ;   Kiirbis  Pastete. 
Plum  pudding — fig  pudding  with  raisins,   rum  soak- 
ed,   flamed. 
Poires    a    la   Mirabeau — pears    on   rice   border    with 

cherries. 

—  For  other  dressings,   see  fruits,   etc. 

—  a  la   Sicilienne ;    stuffed  hazelnut  cream,   praline ; 

baked   on  buiscuit. 

—  Bonne   Femme;    baked  with   butter,   nutmeg. 

—  Meringue ;    on    rice    socle ;    baked    with    egg-froth 

in    the    oven. 


Sweets 90 Pommes 

For  iced  dressing,   see  letter   "P,"    in  peaches. 
Pommes  a  rAngelique — apples  w,  rice  and  angelica. 

—  a  la  Benjamin;   in  paste  border  with  pineapples. 

—  au    Beiirre ;    baked,    glazed   in    the    oven,    nutmeg, 

syrup. 

—  Baked    apples ;    baked,    serve    with    fresh    cream, 

sugar,    in   deep   plate,    tea    spoon. 
For    other    dressings,    see    fruits,    poires,    etc. 

—  a  la  Brisse ;  with  chestnuts  and  pears  on  cream, 

rice. 
• —  a  la   Chatelaine ;   with   custard  cream. 
' —  a    la    Chevreuse ;    on    semolina    and    vanilla,    sal- 

picon  of  fruits,  egg-froth  baked. 
- — a  la  Dauphine;   on  rice  border  with  cherries. 
' —  Emincees   aux    croutons   frits ;    sliced   apples   with 

crusts,   fried  in  butter. 

—  a   la   Fermiere ;    baked  with   butter. 

" —  a    la    Florentine ;    filled    with    rice    on    puree    of 

chestnuts. 
- — au  Four;    baked  in   the   oven  with   currants. 
• — Frites;    fried    apples. 
• —  Grives ;    snow    apples ;    baked    with    egg-froth. 

—  a  la   Manhattan;    on  rounds   of  sponge   cake. 

- — a   la    Marie    Stuard;    baked   apples    in  puff  paste. 
• — Meringues;    covered   with   egg-froth,    baked. 

—  a   la   Nelson;    on   semolina  border. 

' — a    la    Nesselrode;    mould    with    jam,    maccaroons, 
almond,    milk. 

—  a    la    Ninon;    on    small    rounds    of    rice. 

—  a  la  Polonaise ;  with  marmelade  and  maccaroons. 

—  a    la    Portugaise ;     stewed    in    syrup    with    spots 

of    red    jelly. 

—  a    la    Richelieu ;    in    vanille    and    custard    cream, 

marmelade,    fruits. 

—  Saut6s    a    la    minute ;    minced    apples,    fried    in 

butter. 

—  Souffles;   puffed  with  egg- froth  and  maraskino. 
Apples  en  surprise — filled  with  marmelade,    covered 

with  puff-paste,  baked. 

—  a   la  Voisin;    in  border  mould  of   sweet  paste. 

—  a    la    Windsor;    filled    with    marmelade,    on    rice, 

fruits. 
- —  Pommes   _de    terre    en    allumettes ;    potato    strips 

rolled   in   flour,   fried,   sugared. 
Note    the   difference   between   pommes   de    terre    and 
pommes   d'Arbres. 


Sweets 91 Epigrammes 

Pudding — for  these,  see  letter  "P."  For  any  miss- 
ing sweets,  see  the  letter,  or  puddings,  cakes» 
pastry,   ices,   etc. 

Creme  cuite — pastry  cream ;  of  whipped  cream  with. 
sugar,    nutmeg. 

Creme  frangipane — custard  creaiu  of  flour,  sugar, 
yolks,   sail,  hot  milk,  vanille,  butter; 

Cr§me  renverse — cream  or  custard  upside  down, 
out    of    a    mould. 

Gelee  a  la  Bachus — green  jelly  with  grape- juice, 
sugar  and   champagne. 

—  a     la     belle     Americaine;     try-colored    jelly    with 

candied    fruits. 
Gelee  Fouette — whipped  jelly  a  la   Russe,   with  ma- 

deire. 
Gelee  a  la  Moscovite — clear  jelly,  frozen  with  fruits. 

—  a   rOrientale;    of   oranges,    nectarines,    etc. 

—  Panache;    mould  of   vari-colored  jellys. 

—  a   la  Hotschild;    champague-jelly   with   tinsel. 

—  a    la    Souveraine;    jelly    with    buiscuits    and    ica 

cream. 
Kaimac   a  la  Turque — clotted   cream. 
Meringues — oblong    cups    of   baked    egg-froth. 
Oeufs  a  la  Vestale — steamed  egg,    custard. 
Oranges  a  la  Demidoflf — with  maraskino   syrup. 

—  en    surprise;    filled   with   jelly. 

—  a  la  Maltaise ;  on  cold  rice  pudding  with  jelly. 
For  missing  dressings,  see  fruits  and  other  sweets. 
Orange   cocktail — cleaned  fruit   with   maraskino   and 

juice    in    glass,    fine    sugar. 
Ouhlies    a    I'orange — cornets    with    orange    cream. 
Pain  a  la  Rivoli — of  green  gages. 

—  a  la  Victoria;  of  blanc-manger  and  raspberries. 
Peches — peaches;    Pf irsiche  ;    see    there. 

Ponding — puddings,  for  cold  puddings,  see  letter 
"P, ''     pastry. 

Supreme  de  fruits — a  mould  with  kirsh,  jelly. 
Bavarian  cream  with  rice  and  fruits.  In  Amer- 
ica most  times  cleaned  fruits  with  maraskino 
and  juice  in  glass. 

Timballe  a  la  Parisienne — employ  baba  with  as- 
sorted   fruits    and    apricot    sauce. 

Eperlans — French  for  smelts;  a  fish    somewhat    larger 

than  sprats. 
Epigrammes — taken     from     literature     by     mistake; 

small    filets    with    rich    sauce. 


Epinards 92 Fig-peckers 

Epinard — french  for  spinach. 

Ergoos — a   turquish.   sherbet   from   liquorice. 

Eryngo — sea   holly. 

Escallops — see  scallops. 

Escargots — for   edible    snails. 

Escarole — broad  leaved  or  Batavian  endive;   a  salad. 

Esculent — signifies    edible. 

Espagnole — fr.  for  Spanish  as  Spanish  sauce;  see 
sauces. 

Essences — productions  vrhich  contain  in  concentrat- 
ed form  the  particular  virtue  of  what  they  are 
made    from. 

Esturgeons — Fr.,    for   sturgeon. 

Extracts — see   essences. 

Fagots — ^highly   spiced,    minced  meats. 

Taham — Bourbon  tea,  made  from  leaves  of  an  or- 
chid  plant. 

Faisans — fr.    for    cock-pheasants. 

Falernian  wine — mount  Falernus,  Italy. 

Falernum — cordial,  prepared  from  lime-juice,  water 
and    sugar. 

Franchettes — French    pastry    of    oblong    shape. 

Fandango — a  Spanish  cake. 

Fan-couques — delicious    little   pastry    cakes. 

Farces — stuffing. 

Farina — meal,    flour. 

Farls — Scotch  oatmeal  cakes. 

Faro — a  Belgian  beer,  made  by  mixing  Iambic  and 
mars. 

Tat — an  oily  liquid  or  greasy  substance,  making  up 
the    main    tissue    of    animal. 

Pawn — fr.  faon;  germ.,  Hirsclikalb. 

Fecule — potato  flour. 

Feet — animals   feet,    prized   for   .ielly  making. 

Fennel — Fr.,  Fenouil;  Ger.,  Fenchel. 

Ferments — yeast  is  a  ferment,  organic  bodies  which 
cause  fermentation. 

Ferral — small    fish,    found    in   lake   Leman. 

Feuillantines — pastry,    made    of   puff-paste. 

Feuilletage — french    for    puff-paste. 

Fidelini — Maccarooni    paste. 

Figs — fr.,  figue;  germ.,  ±eigen;  a  delicious,  re- 
freshing fruit. 

Fig-peckers — a  delicious  little  bird;  living  mostly 
on   figs. 


niberts 93 Fools 

Filberts — fr.,     aveline;     germ.,     Lambertsniisse ;     a 

hazelnut. 
Filct3 — any  piece  of  lean  meat  without  bone  is  now 

crlled   filet,    though   wrongly. 
Filters — making  a  liquid  puree  by  passing  it  through 

line    sieves   is    termed,    filtering. 
Financiere — see    garniture. 
Fines    herbes — a    mixture    of    herbs. 
Fiovano — an    Italian    wine. 
Finnan   baddies — see   haddock. 
Finnan  haddie  in  cream — minced;   served  in  chafing 

dish;    see    there. 
Fish    cakes — a    forcemeat    of    fish,    fried    in    boiling 

fat,    lemon   and  parsley  garnish. 
Flageolets — a     kind     of     haricot     beans     like     Lima 

beans. 
Flamand— Fr.,    for   Flamish,    a    cake. 
Flamus — a    savoury    french    buiscuit. 
Flash — a   drink,   made   of   rum  and  ginger  beer. 
Flavoring — zest   given   to    foods. 
Flawns — fr.,    Flans;    germ.,   Fladen;    flat  pies. 
Flemish    cream — whipped    cream   with   izinglass    and 

brandy. 
Flips — drinks,     made     from     beer,     spirit     and     egg, 

heated. 
Florador — food   prepared   from    granulated   wheat. 
Flounders — fr.,   flats;    germ.,    Flundern;    fish   of   the 

sole    family. 
Flour — fr.,  farine;   germ.,  Mehl. 
Flukes — fishes    resembling    the    flounders. 
Flummery — a    pap   for   children,    made   of   flour   and 

milk. 
—  Germ.   Flummery;    a    sweet,   made   of  white  wine, 

semolina,    eggs,    etc.,    a    jelly. 
Flutes — small  long  rolls  of  pastry. 
Fogosh — an   Austrian   fish;    7    or   8   pounds. 
Foies   gras — fr.    for   fat   livers;    mostly   goose-livers. 
Fondants — things    that    melt    in    the    mouth,    mostly 

sweets. 
Fondues — savoury    french    dishes,    made    of    melted 

cheese,    usually   served  in  paper   cases. 
Food — signifies   all   materials   taken  up   by  the  body 

to    renew    tissue. 
Food  for  the  Gods — see  Ambrosia. 
Fools — dishes,   made  of  crushed  stewed  fruit,  mixed 

with   milk    or    cream. 


rorce-meats 94 Filet  de  Canard 

Force-meats — corrupt      from     farce-meat,      to      stuff 

means    stuffing. 
Four — fr.    for    oven*    from    this    dishes    have    been 

styled    according    to    tiieir    size;    grand    four    or 

petit    four,    mostly    sweets. 
Fowl — Fr.,     volallles;     Germ.,     Gefluegel;     roast    40 

minutes;    broiled   15    to    30   minutes. 
Fowl  chaudfroid — roasted  fowl  cut  in  pieces,  dipped 

in  sauce,   made  of  jelly  and  yellow  sauce;   served 

in    jelly    with    truffles. 

—  Volaille  a  la  bechamel;   with  white  cream  sauce. 
Fowl's  livers — Gefliigellebern ;   foie  de  volaille;  used 

for    ragouts,    etc. 
Fowl — boneless,    broiled,    looks    like    a    sweet    bread, 

broiled    in    own    skin,    brown    sauce. 
Towl — boned,    bones    removed    and    flesh    trussed    in 

skin,     (squabs),    or    served    as    a    cold    galantine, 

(Capon). 
Fowl— poultry,    Gefluegel,    volaille. 

—  Canard    duck ;    see    ducks,    canvas    backs ;    sauces 

and    garnitures. 

—  a  la  Pauvre  homme ;  with  shallots  sauce. 

—  a    la   Flamande ;    with    sour    cherry   sauce. 

—  Roast;    serve   with   apple   sauce. 

—  a    la    Francaise ;    with    brown    sauce,    mushrooms 

and    lemons. 

—  a    rimperatrice ;    marinaded   with    green   Windsor 

beans. 

—  a   la   Napolitaine;    stewed  with   oranges. 

—  a   la   Nivernaise ;    with   carrots. 

—  a    la    Pere-Douillet;     stewed    with    garlic,     spices> 

white    wine. 

—  a  I'Americaine;   stuffed,  roast  with  fried  hominy. 
— -With    peas;    braised,    gravy,    peas. 

—  a    la    Pecheur ;    with    cray-f ishtails. 

—  a     la     Savoisienne ;     with     bacon,     onions,     mush- 

rooms,   tomato    sauce. 
— •  a  la   Sicilienne ;   with  rice   and  Sicilan  sauce. 

—  a    la    Toulousaine ;     stuffed,    sauce    piquante. 

—  a    la    Valencienne ;    stuffed    with   rice,    stuffed    to- 

matoes   and    sausages. 

—  a   la   Vigneronne ;    with   glazed  chestnuts. 

—  a    la    "Whitehead;    stuffed    with    apple    sauce    and 

green    peas. 
- —  a  la  Rhenane ;    duck  giblets  with  syrup  of  pears. 

—  Emince  ;    minced  duck. 

—  Filets  de  canard ;  breasts  of  duck. 


Fowl  95  Chapon 

—  Foie    de    Canard   a    la    Papale ;    duck's   liver   with 

trufBes    and    cock's    kidneys. 

—  Salmis    of    duck ;    brown    ragout. 

—  Caneton;      duckling;      see     duck     and     duckling; 

sauces    and   garnitures. 

—  a   la    d'Albufera;    with    truffles    and   ham   in   ma- 

deire    sauce. 

—  a  la  Duclere;    stuffed,  with  red  wine,  lemon-juice, 

demiglaze   and   chives. 

—  a    la    Providence ;    stewed   with   ragout    of    livers, 

truffles,    olives,    mushrooms,    quenelles. 

—  a    la    St.    Mande ;     stewed    with    cucumbers    and 

bread-crust. 

—  Filets    de    Canetons    a    la    Castillane;    breasts    of 

duckling    with    truffles    and    stuffed    olives. 

—  a  la  Fermiere;   with  marsh  beans. 

—  a    la    Mancelle;    with    goose-liver    mould. 

Pain    de    Canetons    a    la    Michel-Ange — mould    with 
maccarooni. 

—  Canette ;  Entchen,  ducky. 

Chapon — Kapaun,     Kapphahn ;     capon ;     chapon     du 
Mans;    Manx    Capon. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;    with    vegetables. 

—  a  la  Genoise;  with  nuddles  and  cheese. 

—  a    la    Bourgeoise;    with    carrots    and    onions;    to- 

mato  sauce. 

—  braise    a    la    St.    Cloud;    larded    with    bacon    and 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Cardinal;    with    crayfish    sauce. 

—  a  la   Cavour;   with   thimble  moulds  of  nuddles. 

—  a   la   Chivry ;    with  onion  rings,    filled  with  pars- 

ley. 
Chapon,    Capon   a   la   Conty — braised,    filets,    stuffed 
truffles,    mushrooms,    asparagus    tips,    with   bacon, 
brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Dame-Blanche;  with  mushrooms  and  truffles, 

braised. 

—  a  la  Daube;   stewed. 

—  a    la    Favre;    boned,    cut-up    with    onion,    garlic, 

herbs    and    cream,    madeire,    quenelles. 

—  au   gros    sel;    with   coarse    salt;    braised. 

—  a  la  Henry   quatre ;    larded,    truffle   sauce. 

—  a   la    Kaunits;    filets   larded,    braised   with   sweet 

breads   and  mushrooms. 

—  a   la  Lavalliere;   quenelles,   mushrooms,   in  cream, 

crust   with   peas. 


Fowl 96 Dindonneau 

—  a  la  Lully ;  stuffed  with,  truffles,  combs  and  mush- 

rooms. 

—  a    la    Lyonnaise ;    with    olives    and    glazed    chest- 

nuts. 

—  a    la    Piemontaise ;    stuffed    with,    stuffed    nuddle- 

turn-overs,    tomato    sauce. 

—  a  la   Dauphin ;    with  puree   of  endives. 

—  Poele   a   la   Cavaliere ;    braised,    stuffed,    tomatoes, 

onion  or  oyster  sauce. 

—  a  la  Romaine ;   braised  with  almonds,   cream  and 

horseraddish. 

—  a  la  Russe ;   with  walnut  stuffing. 

—  a     la     St.     Cloud ;     braised,     truffled    with,    sweet 

breads,    mushrooms    and    combs. 

—  Ailerons ;    pinions ;    Fliigelspitzen. 

—  :fi;tuvee   a   la    Cumberland ;    stewed   with   squirrels 

with    white    wine    and    corn,    tomatoes,     lima- 
beans  and  onions. 

—  Filets  a  la  Marechale ;  breaded,  broiled,  no  sauce ; 

glazed  with  german  sauce. 
Coq — Hahn;     cock,     cr§te     de     coq ;     cock's     combs, 

Hahnenkamme. 
Dinde — Turkey,     Truthenne ;     see     sauces    and    gar- 
nitures   and    capon,    chapon. 

—  Roasted;   serve  with  cranberry  sauce;   1  hour. 

—  a    rimperatrice;    boiled    with    celery    sauce. 

—  a   la    Wolkonsky ;    with   goose    livers    and   truffles. 

—  a    la     Medicis ;     with    crusts,    filled    with    puree 

of    fieldfares. 

—  a  la  Reyniere ;   roast,  brown  sauce,   sausages  and 

chestnuts. 

—  de  Rhode  Island;   best  American;  mostly  roasted 

with    chestnut    stuffing. 

—  a  la  George  Sand;  braised  with  celery  and  chest- 

nuts. 

—  a  la   Saint  James ;   stuffed  with  brown  sauce  and 

mossberry -jelly. 

—  a  la  Yorkshire ;   stuffed  with  tongue,  cream  sauce 

and  vegetable   macedoine. 

—  Ailerons    a    la    d'Uszes;    pinions    with    forcemeat 

truffles    and   white    sauce. 

—  Abbatis   of   Turkey ;    ragout   with   turnips,    brown 

sauce,    mushrooms,    chestnuts. 
Diudon — Truthahn,    turkey ;    see    capon,    sauces    and 

garnitures. 
Dindonneau — Truthanchen;       spring      turkey;       see 
capon,   poulet^    sauces,    garnitures. 


Fowl 97 Goose 

—  a   I'Africaine;   with   truffle   sauce. 

—  a   I'Algerienne;    with   lobster   sauce. 

—  a    la    Conti ;    stuffed    with    brown    sauce,    combs, 

quennelles,    truffles. 

—  a  la  Judge  Brady;  broiled  with  Worchester  sauce, 

crumbs    and    Maitre    butter. 

—  Grille;    broiled   50   minutes;    herb   butter. 

—  a   la  Montorgueil;    sliced  with  vegetables,   bacon, 

trufl'es,    braised,    Toulouse    sauce. 

—  a   la    Nothan;    with   truffles    and   red   tongue. 

—  a    la    Providence;    stuffed   with   herbs,    ragout   of 

goose   livers,    quenelles,    olives. 
Goose,  Gans,  Oie — see  sauces,  garnitures,  capon,  etc. 

—  a  I'Allemande;    stuffed  with  sour  crout. 

—  a     I'Alsatienne;     braised,     stuffed    with    sausages 

and    chestnuts,     with     sour-crout. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;   with   sage   stuffing. 

—  a    r  Arlesienne ;    stuffed,    tomato    sauce. 

—  Bouillie;    boiled. 

—  Braise    a   la   Bourgeoise;    stewed   with   vegetables. 

—  aux    Chataignes ;    with   chestnuts. 

- — a    la    Mount    Vernon;     stuffed    with    onions    and 
potato    puree ;    baked   apples,    brown   sauce. 

—  Rotie;    roast,    serve   with    apple    sauce. 

—  Foie  gras;  Gansleber,  Fettleber;  goose's  fat  liver. 

—  en    aspic;    cold   in  jelly. 

—  a    la    Bolonaise;    cold    with    sausage    and    jelly. 

—  Braise    a    la    Henry    quatre;    truffled   with    truffle 

sauce    and    madeire. 

—  a   la   Marengo ;    tarts  with  mousse  and  truffles. 

—  a  la  Montmorency;   with  pures  of  pheasants  and 

truffles,  madeire  sauce. 

—  a  la  Papale;   saute  with  truffles  and  cocks  combs. 

—  a   la   Reine ;   breaded,   fried  with  chopped   truffles. 
— -a  la  Rocher  de  Cancale ;  with  jelly  in  pyramid. 

—  a  la  St.  Cloud;   truffled  with  ragout  of  truffles. 

—  a  la  Talleyrand;    in  madeire  with   truffles. 

—  Aspic  a  la  Financiere ;   aspic  of  liver  with  combs. 

—  Bastion    Strassbourgeoise    a    la    Hohenzollern;     a 

big    patty    in    crust    of    liver. 

—  Celestines    de    foie    gras ;    crusted    slices    of   liver. 

—  Chaud-froid    de    foie    gras;    jellied    gpose    liver. 

—  Cotelette   de    foie-gras    a    la    Grimaldi;    with   mac- 

carooni  and  ragout. 

—  a  la  Kalergis;  en  chaudfroid  in  jelly,  truffles. 

—  a  la  Lucullus;    with  tongue  and  truffles  on  jelly. 

—  Croutes   au  foie  gras;    crusts  with  goose  liver. 


Fowl 98 Pintade 

—  Darioles    de    foie-gras ;     cream    tarts,    filled    with. 

goose  liver. 

—  Escaloppes    de    foie    gras;    collops   of   goose   liver. 
— 'Gateau   de  foie   gras;    cakes   of  goose   liver. 

'  —  Medallions    de    foie    gras ;    little    round    slices    of 
goose   liver. 

—  Mousse   a  la   Weimarienne ;    moss   of   liver,    sieved 

with    whipped    cream,    truffles. 

—  Mousseline    de    foie   gras;    Schaumbrot. 

—  Nectarine  de  foie ;  goose  liver  on  socle. 
— •  Pain   de   foie    gras ;    goose   liver  niould. 

—  Pate    chaud;    hot   pie. 

—  Poitrine   de   foie    fourre;    stuffed  breast   of  goose. 

—  Rillons   d'Oie;    Gansgrieben;    greaves. 

—  Oison;    gosling,    green    goose;    Junge    Gans. 
Paon,   peacock — Pfauhahn,    paonne;    Henne,   peafowl. 
Pigeon,  pigeonne — Taube,   Squab,  pidgeon. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;    with  green  beans   and  peas. 

—  a  la  Bourgignonne ;  with  small  onions. 

—  en   Compote ;    en   casserole   with   white   wine,    on- 

ions,   mushrooms,     Spanish    sauce,    quenelles. 

—  aux     Concombres ;     broiled,     stuffed,     cucumbers, 

maximilan  sauce. 

—  a  la   Constantine:    with  boiled   groats. 

—  a   la    Crapaudines ;    broiled   with  olives   and   truf- 

fles,   or   breaded,    devilled,    brown    sauce. 

—  a   la    Dauphine ;    with  mushrooms. 

— •  a    la   Diable ;    garnished  with   mustard. 

—  a  la  Due   de   Cambridge ;    marinaded  in  red  wine. 

—  En    Entree    de   Broche    a    la    Nimoise;    roasted   on 

the    spit,    remoulade    sauce. 

—  a  la  Veronique;  roasted  with  grapes,  hot  or  cold. 

—  Farcie    a    la   belle-vue ;    stuffed   with   goose   liver, 

ham   and  truffles ;    ragout. 

—  a  la  Gautier;  roasted  with  lemon-juice  and  bacon, 

white  wine   and  herbs,    truffles. 

—  a    la    Gelee ;    in   mould   of   jelly-;    in    Gallerte. 

— -Grille;    broiled,    with   herb   butter   and   sometimes 

with   currant   jelly. 
Pigeonnau — Junge    Taube;     squab    pidgeon. 

—  a     I'Americaine;     stuffed,     fried    in    butter    with 

bacon. 
■ — -Innocents;   Junge  Taubchen,    squabs. 

—  a    la    Pincesse    Marguerite;    breasts    with    brown 

sauce  with   chicken   meat,   jelly. 
Pintade — guinea-fowl ;    Perlhuhn. 


Fowl 99 Poularde 

—  a  rAllemande ;   with  oysters  and  sour  crout;   see 

sauces  and  garnitures,    capon. 

—  Filets    de    pintade ;    breasts. 

—  au   Supreme;    breasts  with   supreme   sauce. 

-T- Supreme  de  Pintade  a  la  Virginy  ;  broiled  breasts 
with    slice    of   Virginia    ham;    herb    butter. 

Pintadeau — Perlhiihnchen  ;     young    Guinea-fowl. 

Poularde — Masthiinchen ;  Huhn ;  poularde;  female 
capon ;  see  sauces,  garnitures ;  capon,  turkey 
and    others. 

—  a    I'Ambassadrice ;     with    asparagus    tips;     white 

sauce. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;    w.   tongue  and  vegetables;    braised. 

—  a     la     Chevaliere;     with     fricasse     sauce,     truffles, 

ragout. 

—  a  la  Dame-Blanche;  with  truffles  and  mushrooms; 

braised. 

—  a  la  Dame  aux  Camelias ;  with  truffles. 

—  a    la    Demidoff;     stuffed    with    goose    liver;    with 

roots;   braised. 

—  a  la  Gastronome;    stuffed  with  butter  &  Dragun; 

braised. 

—  a   la   Paysanne ;    with   glazed   onions    and   carrots. 

—  a     rivoire;     with     chicken     forcemeat    balls    and 

mushrooms,    quenelles,    cream    sauce. 

—  a  la  Leon   Treize ;    with  nuddles   and  mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Conde ;    with  macaroni    and   sliced  pheasant. 

—  a    la    Napolitaine;    with    maccarooni    and    truffled 

ragout  of   goose   liver. 

—  a    la   Marechale ;    crusted,    baked. 

— •  a  la  Martiniere ;  slices  in  white  sauce ;  with 
forcemeat    balls. 

—  a    la    Martinique;    with    ragout    of    mushrooms; 

braised,    quenelles. 

—  a  la  Milanaise;   braised  with  ravioli. 

— ■  Pallia rde  a   la   Moderne:    braised  with  truffles, 
and  chicken  meat  balls. 

—  a    la    Montmorency;    braised   with    sweet   breads, 

truffles,    mushrooms,    combs. 

—  a  la   Mornay ;   with  financiere  ragout. 

—  a  la   Nantua ;    braised  breasts  with  rice  thimbles. 

—  a     la     Normande ;     breast     boned,     stuffed     with 

chicken    meat,    white    sauce,    ragout. 

—  a   la   Parisienne ;    with   truffles   and   rice    croquet- 

tes,   stuffed. 
■ — a    I'Egyptienne;    with    rice    pilau. 
• —  a   la   Turque ;    with   saffron,   pilau   of   rice. 


Fowl 100 Poulet 

—  a    la    Quirinale ;    on    rice    with    goose    liver    and 

truffles.  • 

—  au    Reveil;    with    calf's    tongue,    artichokes    aiid 

mashed   potatoes. 

—  a  la  Komaine ;  with  nuddles  and  mashed  fowl. 

—  Rotie    a    la    Livonienne;    roast    with    sour    cream 

and    sauce. 
a   la   Royale ;    stuffed   chestnut   puree;    roast. 

—  a    la    St.    Cloud;    with  .  truffles. 

—  Saute    a     la     St.    Valentin ;     with    truffles,     yolks 

and  patties,   madeire  sauce. 

—  a    la    Sicilienne ;    with    sweet   breads    and    tomato 

sauce. 
' — a  la   Stamboul;   roast  with  rice. 
' —  a    la    Villars ;    with    f inanciere    ragout. 

—  a  la  Westphalienne ;   with  nuddles  and  ham. 

—  Poularde    de    Bresse ;    from   the    town    of    Bresse. 

—  Poularde    du    Mans;     from    Le    Mans;    town    in 

France. 

—  Poularde  de  Metz ;  from  Metz ;  Lorraine,  town. 
Poule — Huhn,    chicken;    see    sauces,    garnitures    and 

all    the   other   fowl. 
- — Friars  chicken;   sliced  chicken  in  broth  and  rice. 

—  a    la    Bourgeoise;    with    green   peas    and    carrots. 
• —  a  la  Daube ;   stewed. 

—  en  Demi  Deuil ;   truffled. 

—  Capilotade  de  poule ;   Eingeschnittenes. 

Poulet,      poulette — Hahnchen,      Hiihnchen;      chicken, 
pullet ;    see    sauces,    garnitures,    fowl. 

—  a  r Albert  Victor;  larded,   stuffed,  breaded,  roast, 

mushroom   sauce. 

—  a     I'Americaine;     stewed    with    mossberry    sauce. 

—  a  I'Aurore;   with   tomato   sauce. 

' — a  la  Beaconsfield;  ragout  with  ham,  cream, 
spinach,    truffles    and    polenta. 

■ —  a  la  Bergere ;  braised  with  white  wine,  mush- 
rooms,  onions,   bacon,   potatoes;    stock. 

- —  a   la   Bisque ;    with   crayfish. 

—  a   la   Boivin ;    saute  with   quartered   artichokes. 

—  a    la    Bonne    Femme;    with    roots,    tomatoes    and 

mushrooms  in  casserole. 
■ —  a   la  Bourgeoise ;    in   casserole  with  vegetables. 

—  a  la  Bourgignonne ;  with  bacon,  red  wine,  onions. 

—  Braise;    braised. 

■ — :  a  la  Broche ;  roasted  on  the  spit. 

—  a  la  Careme ;   braised,  white  wine  sauce,  risotto. 


Fowl 101 Foulet 

—  a  la  Casserole;  roasted  in  the  sauce-pan;  Schmor- 

pfanne. 

—  a   la   Castillane;    with  ham  and  onions,    tomatoes. 

—  a   la  Cernay;  jellied  breast  with  rice  and  truffles, 

asparagus,    mayonnaise  with  whipped   cream. 

■ — a  la  Championnet;  roast  in  slices  on  batter 
border  with  stuffed  crusts. 

• — a  la  Chasseur;  breast  with  onions,  breaded,  roast- 
ted   with   madeire    sauce,    ham. 

—  a     la     Chevaliere ;     breasts,     larded,     baked    with 

truffles,  mushrooms,  nuddles,  crusts. 

—  Chickenles's     Lavaliere;      braised,     brown     sauce, 
bacon    and    ham. 

—  a  la  Chivry ;   with  onion  rings  and  ravigot  sauce. 
• —  au  citron ;  with  lemon  sauce. 

■ —  en  compote ;  with  quenelles  and  mushroom  in 
casserole. 

—  Confit  en  pot;    potted  or  jugged. 

—  a  la  Constantin;  with  groats. 

■ — en    Coquille;    fricasse    of    scalloped    chicken,    in 

shells. 
— -  a   la   Crapeaudine ;   flattened,   broiled,  herb  butter. 
■ — a  la  Crecy;  with  carrots. 
• — ■  a  la  Creme ;  with  cream  stuffing. 
• — aux    Cretes    de    coq    farcie;    with    stuffed    cock's 

combs. 

—  a   la   Dantzig;    braised  with  vegetables,    on  force- 

meat. 
• — a  la   Demidoff;    with  roots,   onions,   tomatoes  and 
rice. 

—  a  la   Diable  ;    devilled. 

—  a    la    Dieppoise ;    with    fish    stuffing,    white    wine 

and  brandy;    quenelles. 

—  a    la    Dominicaine;    slices    with    caudfroid    sauce. 

vegetable   salad,    tongue,    combs. 

—  a  la  Due  de  Tec;   filets  jellied  with  stuffed  slices 

of    tongue,    mayonnaise    sauce. 
■ —  a  la  Duchesse ;   meat  balls  with  goose  liver,   truf- 
fles  and   chaudfroid. 

—  a  I'Ecarlate;  with  red  tongue,  truffles. 

• — a    I'Ecossaise;    with    stuffed    artichoke    bottoms; 

chaudfroid    tomatees. 
• — a   I'Egyptienne;    oats   with  white   wine,    tomatoes, 

garlic,    artichoke    bottoms,    onions. 

—  en   Entre  a   la   Broche;    roasted  on   the   spit. 

—  a    la    d'Escar;    breast    larded    with    bacon,    ham 

and  onion,  roots  and  madeire. 


Fowl 102 Poulet 

—  a  I'Escorial;  in  a  border  of  rice  with,  ham,  mush- 

rooms,   olives  and  trufl3es. 

—  a    I'Espagnol;    with    tomatoes,    onions    and    fried 

ham;    fried   in   butter. 
■ — a  I'Estragon;   with  taragon  sauce. 
■ — Farcie  a  la   Duroc;    stuffed,   truffle    sauce. 
■ — la   Favre;    boned,    cut  up   with   cream,    saute  with 

onions,    garlic,    madeire. 

—  a  la   Forestiere ;   with  cepes. 

—  Frit ;    fried   chicken. 

—  Frit    a    I'lndienne;    fried    and    curried. 

■ — Frit    a    I'Orly;    chicken    fried    in    batter, 

—  Frit  a  la  Tartare ;  fried  with  cold  mustard  sauce. 

—  Frit    a    la  _  Tyrolienne ;    fried   with    tomato    sauce. 
" — a  la   Gabriele   d'Esze;    cut  up  with   cream   sauce, 

mushroom  essence,    crusts. 
• —  en  Galantine ;   boned,    stuffed  cold. 

—  Garni    a    I'Hypogriffe;    with    roast   horsemeat. 

—  a    la    General ;    braised   with   green   peas   and   as- 

paragus   tips,    madeire    sauce. 

—  en   Cocotte   a   la   Grandmere;    with  bacon,    onions, 

garnitures,     onions,     mushrooms     and    herbs. 

—  en  Cocotte  a  la   Grandmere ;   with  bacon,    onions, 

potatoes,    butter    and   herbs. 

—  a    la    Grenobloise ;    braised   with   brandy,    shallots 

and    taragon. 

—  a   la    Grevy ;    marinaded,    slices,    roast,    bearnaise, 

tomatoes,    potatoes,    rissoles. 

—  Grille ;    broiled   with   herb    butter. 

■ —  Grille   a   la   Katoff ;    broiled  with  baked  puree   of 
potatoes. 

—  de   Hambourg   Rotie    a   I'Allemande;    stuffed,    but- 

ter   dressing,    roast    on    the    spit. 

—  a  la  Henry  quatre ;   with  bacon  and  truffle  sauce. 
■ —  a    la    Hollandaise ;    with   lemon    and    green    sauce. 

—  aux   Homards ;    with    lobster. 

—  a   la   Hongroise ;    with   paprika   and   cream   sauce. 

—  a    la    Hoteliere ;    with    stuffed    mushrooms,    roast 

with     white     wine     and    madeire. 
• — a    I'lndienne;    curried    with    rice. 

—  a  ritalienne;    stuffed,   braised  with  Italian  sauco 

and   rice. 

—  a   rivoire;    with   supreme    sauce. 

—  au    Kari ;     curried. 

■ — Knickerbocker;   roasted  in- casserole,   Parisian  po- 
tatoes, mushrooms  and  bacon. 


Fowl 103 Poulct 

—  a  la   Lorraine;    with  onions   and  cream,   potatoes, 

chives,  fried  in  butter. 

—  a   la   Marengo ;    braised  with  truffles,   mushrooms, 

onions   and  eggs. 

—  en    Marinade;    marinaded. 

—  a  la  Marquise;   braised  on  goose  liver  pain,  with 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Maryland ;    rolled    in    eggs,    breaded,    fried, 

cream    sauce,    bacon,    corn    fritters. 

—  a    la    Medinaceli ;    with    onions,    garlic,    roots    and 

herbs,    mushrooms    and   Malaga. 

—  a  la  Mercier;   roast  with  egg-froth. 

—  a     la     Monacco;     ragout     with     tomatoes,     brown 

sauce,    ham    and   crusts. 

—  a    la    Montmorrency ;     roast,    stuffed    with    sweet 

breads   and  mushrooms,    Spanish  sauce. 
■ — a    la    Montpensier;    braised,    supreme    sauce    with 
quenelles.  ^ 

—  a  la   Napolitaine ;    with   maccarooni. 

—  a    la    Nationale;     braised    with    turnips,     carrots, 

asparagus    tips,    white    sauce. 

—  a    la    Nicoise;    with    rice    and    tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Nivernaise ;    with   carrots. 

—  a  la  Novaroise ;   with  rice. 

—  a    la    Pacha :     with    stuffed    eggs ;     braised    with 

truffles,    white    sauce. 

—  au  Paprika  a  la  Hongroise ;    cut-up  with  paprika, 

onions    and    ham,    sour    cream,    gravy. 

—  a    la   Parisienne;    onions,    roots   with   bacon,   ham, 

herbs,     with    white    wine,     roast    on    spit;     on 
forcemeat    with    combs,    parisian    sauce. 

—  a   la   Parmentier;    filets,    fried  in  butter,   parisian 

potatoes,    parsley. 

—  a    la   Paysanne ;    with    onions. 

—  a    la   Perigueux ;    with    truffles. 

—  a    la    Persane ;    curried   Avith    rice. 

—  a  la  Piemontaise;   on  forcemeat  border  with  rica. 

—  Poele;     braised    chicken. 

—  a   la   Poivrade ;    with  pepper   sauce. 

—  a   la    Polenta ;    with    cornmush. 

—  a    la    Polonaise;    in    casserole    with    noodles    and 

crumbs   in   butter. 

—  a    la    Pondichery;    saute    with    oil,    onions,    garlic 

with    rice. 

—  a    la    Princesse;    cold;    stuffed,    white    sauce,    as- 

paragus   salad. 

—  a    la    Printanniere ;    with    spring    vegetables. 


rowl 104 Poulet 

—  a   la    Provencale ;    like    fricass^ ;    onions,    parsley, 

laurel    and    oil, 

—  aux   Racines ;    with   roots. 

—  a   la   Regence ;    braised  with   sweet   breads,    truf- 

fles and  combs. 

—  a  la  Reine ;  with  truffles,  chicken,  f orcemeat-balls^ 

—  a  la  Reine ;   spring  chicken. 

—  a   la   Romaine ;    with  maccarooni    and   truffles. 

—  du    Sahara ;    ragout    with    quenelles,    mutton,    on- 

ions,   pimentos,    ginger. 

—  a  la   St.   Cloud ;   braised  with  truffles  and  tongue, 

sauce   supreme. 

—  Saute ;    fried    chicken   tossed    in   butter,    filets. 

—  saute    d'Armenonville;    white    sauce,    champagne, 

celery,   truffles,   potatoes. 

—  saute   a   la   Bayonnaise;    filets  with  ham,    sherry, 

tomatoes,    brown    sauce,    rice. 

—  saute   a  la   Bohemienne ;   with  patties   of  nuddles. 

—  saute   a   la   Bonne-f emme ;    filets   with   vegetables. 

—  saute     a    la    Bourgeoise;     with    green    peas    and 

carrots. 

—  saute  a  la  Carvelho ;   with  white  sauce,  artichoke 

bottom    with    salpicon    of    chicken    and    truffles. 
-7— saute   a   la   Chasseur;    with   ham,    onions,   parsley 
and    lemon-juice,    jus. 

—  saute    a    la    Champeau ;    with    artichoke    bottoms, 

potatoes    and   mushrooms. 

—  saute    a    la    Creole ;    with    brown    sauce,    onions, 

peppers    and   tomatoes. 

—  saute   a   la   Cumberland;    with   onions   and   cream 

sauce. 
■ —  a    la    Delmonico ;    saute    with    artichokes,    truffle* 

and  sweet  peppers. 
' — a    la    Burand;     tomatoes,    Virginia    ham,    brown 

sauce. 

—  saute    a    I'Espagnole;    with    tomatoes. 

—  saute  a  la  Fermiere;  with  carrots  and  green  peas. 

—  saute    a    la    Florentine ;    with   tomato    sauce,    shal- 

lots,   green    peppers,    white   wine. 

—  saute    a    la    Forestiere ;    with    morrels    and    fried 

potatoes. 

—  saute  a  la  Inkermann ;  with  fried  eggs  and  ham, 

curry  and  tomato   sauce. 

—  saute    a    I'ltalienne;    with    tomato    brown    sauce, 

rice   with   cheese. 

—  saute   a   la   Lilly ;    with   lemon  juice   and  parsley, 

—  saute  a  la  Lyonnaise ;  with  fried  onions. 


fowl 105 Poulet 

—  saute    a    la    Lancaste;    white    sauce    with    horse- 

raddish,    croquette    and    stuf.    cucumbers. 

—  saute  a  la  Marjolaine;   with  marjoram. 

—  saute    a    la    M^nagere ;    with    carrots    and   onions. 

—  saut6    a    la    Parmentier;    with    chateau     potatoes, 

chopped  truffles,   brown   sauce. 

—  saute   a  la   Parisienne ;   with  mushrooms,   truffles, 

combs,    Parisian   sauce. 

—  saute    a    la    Ranhofer;    saute    in    oil    and    butter, 

wine,    uxelle    sauce,    green    peppers. 

—  saute  a  la   St.  George ;   fillets  in  oil,  white  sauce 

and   mushrooms. 

—  a  la   Saxonne ;   with  cauliflower  &  cray-f ish  tails. 

—  a  la  Sonntag ;  with  leeks  and  rice,  fried  in  butter. 

—  a    la    Stanley;    with    cream,    herbs,    onions    and 

truffles  with  currie. 

—  a    la    Stroganow ;    stuffed,    roast,    cold   in    chaud- 

froid,   vegetable   salad. 

—  au  Supreme ;   glazed  with  white  sauce. 
■—  a  la  Tartare ;   with  cold  mustard  sauce. 

—  a     la     Toulousaine ;     braised,     Toulouse     garnish, 

white   sauce. 

—  a    la    Tonquinoise;    with    butter,    oil    and    onions; 

shallots,   garlic,   tomatoes,   curry. 

—  a  la  Turbigo ;   fillets  with  currie  rice,  artichokes, 

potatoes,    tomatoes,    asparagus   tips. 

—  a   la   Tyrolienne;    with   tomatoes  and  ham. 

—  a  la  Valencienne ;  with  rice  and  Spanish  sausages. 

—  a  la   Vanderbilt ;   with  piquant   sauce. 

—  a    la    Venitienne;    with    Venitian    sauce. 

—  a    la    Viennoise;    cut-up,    breaded,    egged,    baked; 

white  sauce  with  cream. 

—  a    la   Vigo;    braised   with   madeire   sauce   and  to- 

matoes. 
' —  a   la   Villeroy ;    filets,    in   villeroy   sauce,    breaded 
and    baked. 

—  a    la    Wissmann;    curry,    rice,    mushrooms,    onions 

and  olives. 
Crepinettes   de    poulet — flat    sausages. 

—  Filets    de    poulet;    breasts,    supreme;    see    sauces 

and    garnitures,    capon,    etc. 

—  en   Chaud   Froid;    jellied. 

—  a   la   Dumas ;    stuffed   with   mashed   cucumbers. 

—  a  la  Duglere ;    stuffed  with  duxelle,   white   sauce. 

—  a    la    Dauphine    with   button    mushrooms. 


Fowl 106 Poulet 

—  a   la   Frou-Frou;    braised,   witfi   artichoke   bottom, 

filled    with     hazelnut,     potatoes     and     spinach, 
poached. 

—  a    rimperiale;    with    hashed    cutlets    and    mush- 

rooms. 
■ —  a  la  Javanaise ;   with  birds  nests. 

—  en    Lorgnon ;    with    white    of    egg    and    truffles. 

—  a   la    Marechale ;    crusted,    broiled. 

• —  a    la    Marie    Therese ;    on    rice    with    truffles    and 
tongue. 

—  a  la  Moscovite;   with  caviar. 

—  de    Poulet    au    Supreme;    or    supreme    de   poulet; 

with    supreme    sauce,    breasts. 

—  Supreme    a    la    Bayadere ;    larded,    truffles,    mush- 

rooms,   tongue,    cream    sauce,    quenelles. 

—  Supreme    a    la    Cavour ;     breasts    on    socle    with 

truffle    sauce. 

—  Supreme  a  la  Taylor;    (pauvre  homme)    small  on- 

ions. 

—  Supreme  a  la  Monarque ;  tongue,  truffles,  madeire. 

—  Supreme   a   la   Montpensier ;    olives,   ham,    aspara- 

gus points. 

—  Supreme  a  I'Archiduc;   asparagus  tips,   truffles. 

—  Supreme ;     Mascotte,     trufSes,     madeire,     potatoes 

noisette. 

—  Supreme  a  la  Jeanette;  jellied  white  sauce,  goose 

liver    on    socle ;    cold. 

—  Supreme    a    la    St.    James ;    cold    on   ham,    chaud 

froid    sauce,    rice    with    peppers    and    tomatoes. 

—  Supreme    a    la   Royale ;    in   border   of    vegetables, 

tongue,    truffles,    white    sauce. 

—  Supreme    a    la   Vaupaliere ;    truffled   with   chicken 

jpuree. 

—  Supreme    a    la    Virginie ;    broiled    on    toast    with 

slice    Virginia    ham;    herb    butter. 

—  Supreme  a   la  Viennoise;    in   oil.   lemon,   breaded, 

egged,    baked,    forcemeat,    tomato. 

—  Supreme    a    la    Jule    Janin ;    cold   with    asparagus 

salad  and  truffles. 

—  Supreme   a   la    Savarin ;    cold   with   salad  of  truf- 

fles.     For    others,    see    garnitures,    sauces. 

—  Grenadine    de    poulet ;    larded,    braised,    fillets. 

—  Turban    de    filets ;     crown    shape    of    fillets. 

—  Friteau  de  poulet ;   fried  chickens. 

—  Galantine  de  poulet ;    cold  stuffed   chicken. 

—  Mazagran    de    poulet ;    minced    chicken    with    rice 

and    sausages. 


Fowl 107 Volaille 

—  Montgelas     of    poulet;     ragout    a     la     Montgelas; 

see    garnitures. 

—  Noques    de    poulet;    chicken    custards. 

—  Ragout  a  la  Bismark;   of  stomachs,   livers,  hearts 

with      madeire      wine,      paprika,      butter,      veal 
tongue,    flour,     sweet    breads,     lemon,     stock, 

—  Salade     de     poulet;     chicken     salad;     mostly     of 

mayonnaise,    celery,    truffles,    capres    anchovies, 
cucumbers,  lettuce  leaves  or  with  french  dress- 
ing,   eggs. 
— ■  Salpicon   de   poulet;    fine   ragout. 
Poulet  de  grain — mit  Korn  gemastetes  Huhn;   stall- 
fed    chicken. 
Poulet    gras — Masthahnchen ;    fattened    chicken. 
Poulet    nouveau — Junges    Hanchen;    spring    chicken. 
Poulet    vierge — Gemastetes    Huhn ;     fattened    spring 

chicken;    kastrierte   Hiihner. 
Poussin — Kiichlein;      Kiicken;      chickling;      peeper; 
squab    chicken. 

—  a    la    Colbert;    breaded,    Colbert    sauce. 

—  de  Hambourg  a    I'lmperiale;    stuffed  with  bacon, 

braised,    white    sauce,    forcemeat. 

—  a  la  Monte-Carlo;    saute  with  truffles  and  minced 

mushrooms. 

—  de   Hambourg ;    Hamburger  Kiicken ;    egged,   bred- 

ed,   fried  in  butter;    cream  sauce. 

—  a    la    Cettoise;     breaded,     saute,     tomato,     stuffed 

olives,    garlic    flavor. 
Volaille — Gefliigel ;    Fowl,    chicken ;    see    sauces,    gar- 
nitures,   poulet   and   fowl, 

—  a    la    Carlsford;     stuffed    with    mushrooms,    roast 

on    spit. 

—  Abattis   de   volaille;    Gefliigel    klein;    giblets. 

—  Appareil    a    zephyr;    cream,    forcemeat. 

—  Aspasie  de  volaille ;  pattie  fowl  mould, 

—  Aspic    a    la    Reine ;    pain   de    volaille    with    combs 

jellie,    tongue,    truffles. 

—  Aspic  de  supreme  de  volaille ;  of  fowl  livers,  kid- 

neys   and    combs. 

—  Beignets    de    volaille;    fowl    fritters. 

—  Bouchees  a  la  Duchesse ;  patties  with  mousse  and 

truffles ;    minced    fowl ;    cream. 

—  Bouchees  a  la  Reine;   patties  of  minced,  creamed 

fowl  with  mushrooms   and  truffles, 

—  Boudins   de    volaille;    fowl    sausages, 

—  a    la   Richelien;    chicken   forcemeat,    truffles,    rice, 

poached,    Perignueu    sauce. 


Fowl 108 Volaille 

—  Brissotins     au     supreme ;     tarts    with    ragout    of 

goose   liver, 

—  Canapes     de     volaille ;     slices     of    'buttered    toast 

with    fowl. 

—  Cannelons    a    la    puree ;    puff-paste,    canes    filled 

with  puree. 

—  Celestines   de  volaille;    crusted  slices   of  fowl. 

—  Chaud    froid;    jellied    fowl. 

—  Colombines    de    volaille ;    crusted   rice,    tarts   with 

hashed  fowl  liver. 

—  Chevreuse    a   la   Reine ;    semolina   tart,    filled  with 

puree  of  fowl. 
■ — Coquille  de^  volaille;  ragout  in  shells,  white  sauce. 

—  Cotelette   de  volaille ;    cutlets   of  minced  fowl. 

—  Crgme  de  volaille ;    creamed  fowl. 

—  a   I'Ambassadrice ;   with  forcemeat,   sweet  breads, 

asparagus    tips. 

—  a    la    Reine    Hortense;    with    fresh   mushrooms. 

—  Crepes   de   volaille ;    pancakes,    filled  with   minced 

fowl. 
■ — Orepinettes;    flat   fowl    sausages. 
Crete s   de   volaille — fowl   combs. 

—  Croquettes  de  volaile:  minced  fowl  with  eggs  and 

flour,    roll    shaped,    fried. 

—  a  la   Segard;    breaded,   broiled  with  truffles. 

■ — Croustades     a   'la     Barakin;     crust     patties    with 
mince,    truffles   and   tongue. 

—  Cuisses   de   volaille;    legs    of   fowl. 

—  a    la    Ecaillere ;    boned,    stuffed   with   hashed    oy- 

sters,  crumbs,   oyster  sauce. 

—  a  la  Wellington ;  with  chutney  sauce,  fried  in  oil. 

—  Dauphin^s    de    volaille ;    fowl    croquettes. 

, — Eclairs    de    volaille;     a    la    Carolyi ;     puffs    filled 
with  puree  of  fowl. 

—  Emince   a    la   King :    in   chafing   dish  with   cream, 

truffles   and   mushrooms,    toast. 

—  Emince    a    la    Helder ;    in    cream,    green   peppers, 

truffles,     chafing    dish. 
— .Emince  a  la  Deutch;   in  cream,  mushrooms,   truf- 
fles,  chafing  dish. 

—  Entree   de   volaille;    cold  fowl  dressed  with  jelly. 

—  Epigrammes    de    volaille ;     small    round    filets    of 

fowl. 

—  Escaloppes  de  volaille ;   fowl  collops. 

—  Farce  cuite  de  volaille ;   forcemeat  of  boiled  fowl. 

—  Rissoles   de   volaille;    little   patties. 


Fowl 109 Volaille 

—  Filets    mignons    de    volaille ;    underbreast?     filets 

of   fowl. 

—  Filets  de  volaille;   "breasts   of '  fowl. 

—  Supreme  de  Volaille:  breasts  of  fowl;  see  poulets, 

sauces,    garnitures. 

—  Fricasse  a  I'Ancienne;   stewed  with  onions,  mush- 

rooms,   bacon,    white    sauce. 

—  a    I'Ambassadrice;    with    puree    of    cucumbers. 

—  a  la  Marie  Therese ;   with  tongue,    truffles  &  rice. 

—  a    rimperiale;    with    cream,    forcemeat    tarts. 

—  a    la    Monville;    saute    in    butter    with    mince    of 

chicken,    Marsala,    Spanish    sauce. 
— ■  a   la   Dumas;    with  puree   of   cucumbers. 

—  a    la    Valencienne ;     with    tongue    and    truffles. 

—  a    la    Victoria;    with    oysters,    crabs    and    noques, 

in   madeire    sauce. 

—  Terrine    de    foie   de   volaille;    fowl    liver,    pot   pie. 

—  Fondants    de    volaille;    stuffed   fowl    dumplings. 
— ■  Pritot  de  Volaile ;  fried  fowl. 

—  Galantine    de    volaille ;    cold    boned    stuffed    fowl 

in    jellie. 

—  Marbre  de  volaille;  marbled  galantine  de  volaille. 

—  Marinade   de   volaille ;    marinade    of   fowl. 
Mousse  de  volaille — moss  of  fowl;   Schaumspeise  of 

puree    with    frothed    cream. 

—  Mousseline  of  Volaille;    kaltes  Scbaumbrot;    Moss 

pain. 

—  Pain  a  la  Isabelle;   mould  of  woodcock  and  fowl 

liver. 

—  a   la    Samaritaine ;    of  fowl   and  game. 

—  a   la   Chantilly;    with    glazed   goose    liver. 

—  a    la    Dreux ;    with    ci*eam    and    goose    liver,    truf- 

fles  and  madeire. 
Pat6  de  volaille — fowl  pie. 
Petite    chartreuse    a    la    gelee — small    fowl    patties 

with   jelly. 
Croustade   de  volaille — buttered   crusts  with  ragout. 
Petite    timbale    a    la    Agnes    Sorrel — small    moulds 

with    tongue    and    truffles,    fowl-force. 
Petits  pain  de  volaille — small  fowl  moulds  or  loaves. 
Petits    patees   de   volaille — small    patties    of    fowl. 

—  a  la  Mazarin;    small  patties  with  minced  fowl. 
Pudding    a    la    Ponson    du    Terreil — chicken    force- 
meat,   poached   with    truffles    and    supreme    sauce. 

Vol-au-vent  a  la  cordon  bleu — puff  patties  of  fowl 
with  whipped  cream  and  colored,  whipped  white 
of   eggs. 


Fowl 110 Caille 

—  a  la  Reine ;  puff-paste  patties  of  fowl  with  cream 

sauce. 

Paupiettes  de  volaille — fowl  olives;  thin  slices  of 
fowl    with    forcemeat,    rolled    up    and    cooked. 

Souffle  Avricourt — in  paper  cases  on  mince,  truf- 
fles,   mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Holder;    in   paper    case    of    cheese,    tongue, 

truffles,   ham,   fowl,   mince. 
Quenelles    de   volaille — fowl   forcemeat   balls. 
Eagout    Buechelstein    de    volaille — fowl    with    liver 

and   heart,    wine,    paprika    and   madeire. 
Timhale  a  la  Beauharnais — with  truffle  and  tongue, 

creamed  fowl   mince,    combs,    mushrooms. 

—  a    la   Duchesse ;    with   ragout   of   fowl. 

—  a    la    Palhen ;    of   maccarooni    with   goose   liver. 

—  a     la     Parisienne ;     with     quenelles,     mushrooms, 

truffles,    tongue    and    forcemeat. 

—  a    la    Orlow ;    of   mousse,    tongue,    semolina,    pan- 

cakes. 
Turban   de   volaille — high  border  in  headgear   form. 
Zepli3n:e    de   volaille — cream   mould   of   fowl. 
Game   birds — Wildfliigel,    gibier. 

—  Alcion,    Alcyon ;    Eisvogel,    Kingfisher. 
Alouette — Lerche,    lark. 

—  Arbenne ;     Moorschneehuhn,     white    grouse ;     per- 

drix  blanche. 
Attagas — perdrix   de   neige ;    Schneehuhn,    attagen. 

—  Autruche ;    Strauss,    ostrich. 

—  Bartavelle;      Steinhuhn,     Rothhuhn;     red     legged 

partridge. 

—  Becasse;    Waldschnepfe,    woodcock. 

—  saute  Paysanne ;  with  white  wine  sauce  &  sherry. 

—  Becassine;     Sumpschnepfe,    snipe. 

Becasseau — Junge    Waldschnepfe ;    young    woodcock. 
Becfigue — Feigendrossel,    fig-pecker. 
Bruant — Goldammer,    yellow    bunting. 
Bruantin — Reis-Riedvogel ;    reed    bird. 
Caille — Wachtel,    quail. 

—  a    la    Ellen   Terry;    baked    in   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Cafe    de    Paris ;    baked    in    potatoes. 

—  a  la   Escoffier;    baked  in  potatoes. 

—  Monegasque;    on   toast   with   shallots,    brown   and 

bearnaise    sauce- 

—  a    la    Luculle;    roast    with    stuffed   roll   and   pain 

de   caille.  * 

—  a   la   Rosalie ;    stuffed  with   goose  liver-paste,   red 

jelly;   with  grapes:    en  casserole. 


Fowl 111 Merlean 

Cailleteau — young    quail ;    Junge    Wachtel. 
Canard  sauvage — wild  duck;   Wild-Ente. 

—  Grilles;   broiled;    served  with  red  currant  jelly. 

—  Roast;      served     with     currant     jelly     and     fried 

hominy  (in  America)  carcasse  in  press,  warm 
the  presse-kettle,  tie  napkin  round  so  that 
blood  does  not  leak  on  side-table,  season  with 
celery  salt;  serve  only  the  breasts  on  very 
hot  plate  with  plenty  of  blood. 

Canetou    sauvage — young    wild    duck ;    Junge    Wild- 
Ente. 

Canepetiere — field    duck ;    Zwergtrappe. 

Canvas    bag — best    American   wild    duck;    November 
to  April;   back  feathers  like  canvas;   see  Duck. 

Chevalier    de    sable — Sandlaufer;     Sanderling. 

Colin — Baumwachtel,   bob-white. 

Colin   noir — Schwarzes   Wasserhuhn,   European  coot. 

Combattant — Kampfhahn,    ruff. 

Coq  des  Bois — Birkhahn;  black  cock;  black  grouse; 
moor   game. 

Coq   de    Bruyere — Auerhahn;    mountain    cock;    wood 
grouse. 

Fowl — Game-fowl. 

Coq     des     marais — Schottisches     Schneehuhn;      red 
grouse. 

Courlis — Brachvogel,    Brachschnepf  e  ;     curlew. 

Courlis     de     Groenland — Eskimobrachvogel ;     dough- 
bird. 

Cygne — Schwan ;     swan. 

Cygneau — Junger   Schwan ;    young   swan. 

Draine — Misteldrossel;    missel    thrush. 

Faisan — Fasan;   pheasant;    see  letter   "P." 

Fauvette — Grassmiicke ;    warbler. 

Gelinotte — Haselhuhn;    Hazel-hen;    see    letter    "H." 

Gelinotte    blanche — Schneehuhn;    white    grouse. 

Grive — Krammetsvogel ;    fieldfare. 

Grouse — Waldhuhn;    scotch    grouse.  ,/.-.j 

Guignette — Uferlaufer;     common     sandpiper,  'i 

Guillemot — Lumme,    Seetaube ;    marrot. 

Huppe-col — Prairiehuhn;     prairie     chicken;     dressed 
like    grouse. 

Lagoped — Schneehuhn;    white    grouse. 

Macreuse — Trauerente;   black   scoter,   black   diver. 

Malart — Stockente ;    mallart    duck. 

Mauviette — Lerche,   lark. 

Merleau — Junge     Amsel;     young    blackbird;     Merle, 
Amsel. 


Jowl 112 Fricandeau 

Milouin — Taf elente ;    dunbird. 

Moiueau — Sperling ;    sparrow. 

Mouette — Moeve;  mew,  gull. 

Noir      brouillard — Moorwasserlauf  er ;      spotted      red 

shank. 
Oie-renard — Nilgans ;   fox  goose ;    egyptian. 
Oie    sauvage — Wildgans;    wild  goose. 
Ortolan — Gartenammer ;    ortolan ;    bunting. 
Outarde — Trappe ;    bustard. 
Perdrix — Rebhuhn ;     partridge ;     perdreaux,     Junges 

Rebhuhn,   young  partridge;    see  letter    "P,"   and 

pheasant;    also    sauces    and   garnitures. 
Perdrix    blanche — Moorschneehuhn ;     white    grouse; 

white   partridge. 
Petite  sarcelle — Kriekente;   Teal  duck. 
Pigeon    sauvage — Wildtaube;    wild   pigeon. 
Pluvier — Regenpf eif er ;    plover. 
Bale — Ralle,    railbird;    roast    and    sometimes    served 

in  chafing  dish;    small  bird. 
Bedhead — Rothalsente,     redhead    duck ;     see     canvas 

bag    duck. 
Bouge  gorge — Rothkehlchen,  robin. 
Sarcelle — Knackente;   garganey,   a   teal   duck. 
Tetras — Amerikanisches    Waldhuhn;     Amer.     grouse. 
Vanneau — Kiebitz.   lapwing. 
Yakaphalteoc — Mexicanische     Wildente;     broad    bill 

duck. 
Zonecolin — Mexicanisches      Hauben-Rebhuhn;      Mas- 

sena  partridge. 

Fritters — apple,  coruj  tomato  fritters ;    slices  of  fruit 

or  balls   of  material,   dipped  in  butter  and  fried. 
—  Bell    fritters;    of    batter    and    spices,    fried    with 

lemon  sauce. 
French  dressing — oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  mustard, 

chervil,     for    salads. 
Franginane — an     extract     flavoring,     cream     flavored 

with    frangipane,    largely    used    in    confectionery, 

a    thick,    yellow,    gelatinous    cream,    good    to    eat. 
Frapper — to     lower     temperature     of     beverage     by 

means    of    broken    ice    and    shaking    or    turning, 

(champagne). 
French  beans — see  beans. 

Fricadeloes — hashed  meat,  made  into  balls  and  fried. 
Fricandeau — term  applied  to   a   dainty  dish  of  veal 

from   the   contre   fillet;    mostly   served   on   grosse 

piece. 


Frica8s6 113 Fruit 

Fricasse — a    sort   of   stew. 

Fried — to    cook    in    shallow    pan    or    frie    in   boiling 

fat  or   oil. 
Frijoles — name   of   black  beans   in   Central  America. 
Frittadella — veal  forcemeat  with  marrow  and  onions, 

fried,    tomato   or   Garmel   sauce. 
Fritters — fr.,    beignets;    germ.,    Krapfen. 
Frogs — fr.,  Grenouilles;  ger.,  Frosche;  of  these  only 

the   legs  are   eaten  and  considered  delicious;    see 

Terrapin. 
Frogs  legs,    German  style — saute   in   beer. 
Frogs  legs  a  rEspagnole — saute  in  white  wine  and 

tomatoes. 

—  Saute,    American    style ;     with    tomato    sauce    in 

chafing  dish. 

—  American    style ;    dipped   in   batter,    fried,    lemon. 

—  a    la    Duquesne;    in    timbale,    boneless,    poached, 

white    wine    sauce. 

—  Lyonnaise    style ;    with    onions    and   fine   herbs. 

—  a    la    Gourmet ;    boneless,    Newburgh,    mushroom^ 

and  crabs. 

—  a    la    Merill ;    with    cayenne,    madeire,    with    egg- 

yolk    and    cream;    served   in    chafing    dish. 

—  a   la  Lilloise ;    saute   in  tomato   sauce,   bacon  and 

truffles. 

—  a  la  Poulette;  with  yellow  sauce  and  fine  herbs; 

served   in   chafing  dish. 

—  a  la  Tartare ;  with  cold  mustard  sauce. 

—  a    la    Villeroi;    dipped    in    thick    fricasse    sauce; 

breaded    and   roasted. 

—  a   I'Estouffade;    stewed   in   chafing  dish. 

—  a    la    Newburgh ;    with    sherry    wine    and    cream 

sauce,   in   chafing  dish.      For  others   see   Garn- 
ishes. -4 
Frontignac — sweet  French  wine,  made  from  Muscat. 

grapes. 
Frosting — sugar   icing. 
Frost  fish — American  name  for  smelts. 
Fruit — fr.,    fruits;     ger.,    Friichte;     see    Entremets, 

Ices. 
Fruit     crusts — fried     bread     crusts,     masked     with 

marmelade,   filled  with   compote  of  fruits,   stewed 

with   madeire   wine. 
Fruit    suedoise    of    jelly — charlotte    mould,     apples, 

pears;    set  in  jelly,   strawberrie  bavaroise,  mixed 

with    stewed   fruits,    orange    jellys,    formed,    iced. 


rrumenty 114 Garnishes 

Frumenty — dish  of  wheat,  boiled,  mixed  with  eggs 
or  cream,  sweetened,  vanilla,  rosewater;  served 
hot. 

Frying — -cooking  hy  absolutely  immersing  the  ar- 
ticle in  boiling  fat;  now  often  wrongly  used  by 
frizzling  meats  in   shallow  pan. 

Fumet — flavor    of    game. 

Fusel  oil — alcohol  from  starch  of  potato  or  grain. 

Galantine — not  to  be  confounded  with  gelatine;  a 
dish  of  boned,  freely  seasoned  meat,  tied  in  a 
cloth   and  served   cold  after  being  boiled. 

Galettes — flat  cakes  or  buiscults,  made  of  light 
past  cake. 

Gall — fluid  of  terrific  pungency;  attached  to  livers, 
must   be    carefully   removed. 

Gallimawfry— -batter,  bacon,  ham  and  vegetables, 
cut   up   with    cold  meat,    seasoned,    fried. 

Gallino — an  Italian  dish  of  curds  and  wheat. 

Gallon — a   measure   of   four   quarts. 

Galoni — Spanish  term,  used  for  small  cakes,  to 
garnish  entremets. 

Game — fr.,    gibier;    ger.,    Wildpret. 

Gammon — thigh    of   hog,    pickled   and   salted,    dried. 

Garbure — a  soup  with  beef,  veal-knuckle,  ham- 
nuckle,  cabbage,   sausage,   etc. 

Garciofini — see   on   page    169. 

Garden  parties — picnics  at  home. 

Gar-fish — sea  pike. 

Garlic — fr.,    Ail;    ger.,    Knoblauch;    often    despiced; 

it  is  invaluable  in  the  kitchen. 
Garnishes — Fr.,  Garnitures;  Germ.,  Garnituren.  If 
any  garnish  should  be  found  missing,  it  may  be 
found  under  the  headings  of  ' ' Aiguilette  of  beef, '  * 
"Pike,"  "Tournedos  or  Sauces." — Many  gar- 
nishes are  solely  recorded  under  the  "letter 
index"  and  may  be  found  there. — Note  should 
be  taken  if  the  garnish  is  meant  to  be  for  fish, 
meat,  fowl,  fricasse,  patties  or  vegetable,  as  they 
are  not  in  all  cases  alike.  The  reader  should  not 
forget  that  many  garnishes  found  on  Menus  are 
the  outcome  of  a  cooks  genius  and  that  a  new 
garnish  is  borne  every  day,  but  these  new  "in- 
ventions" usually  die  soon  after  their  birth  of 
insufficient  vitality.  All  standard  garnishes  will 
be  found  in  the  following  list. 


Garnishes  115  Ambassadrice 


A'bella — like   Espagnol. 

Adirondack — (fowl),  artichokes,  tomatoes,  brown 
sauce. 

Adalisque — egg-plant,  sweet  breads,  peas,  Italian 
sauce. 

Adrienne — (Venison  steak),  puree  of  chestnuts, 
brown    sauce. 

Africaine — tomatoes,    peppers    and    rice. 

Allemande — (red  cabbage)  in  butter  with  onions 
and   cloves. 

Allemande — (macaroni)  boiled,  rissolee  with  butter 
and  crumbs. 

Allemande — (fish)  boiled  with  vegetables,  white 
sauce. 

Allemande — (beef)  boiled  with  vegetables,  horse- 
raddish    sauce. 

Alhambra — (fowl)  artichokes,  tomatoes,  green  pep- 
pers. 

Algerienne — fried  tomatoes,  artichokes,  sweet  po- 
tato,  croquettes,    (for  Entrees). 

Algerienne — (fish)    gratine    with    brown    sauce. 

Alfonse — (Entrees)  artichokes,  musurooms,  brown 
sauce. 

Alsatienne — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  sour 
crout    and    potatoes. 

Alsatienne — (Entrees)  with  sour  crout,  stewed  in 
white    wine    with    i)acon. 

Alsatienne — (nudels)  boiled  with  butter,  cheese 
and  ham. 

Amandine — (fowl)  in  casserol  with  artichokes  and 
white    sauce. 

Ambassade — (fish)    with   white   wine   sauce. 

Ambassade — (Entrees)  artichokes,  mushrooms,  brown 
sauce. 

Ambassadrice — (fish)    poached  with  oyster   sauce. 

Ambassadrice — (Entrees)  with  sweet  breads,  oy- 
sters,   truffles,    sauce    supreme. 


Garnishes 116     Anglaise 

Amelie — (fish)    poached    with    crayfish    butter,    po- 
tatoes and  truffles. 
Americaine — (fish)    poached,    sauce    Americaine. 
Americaine — (oysters)    poached,    white    wine,    sauce 

Americaine. 
Americaine — (crabs)     breaded     and     fried,     Tartare 

sauce. 
Americaine — (lobster)      cut-up     in     Spanish     sauce, 

madeire    and    brandy,    red    wine,    taragon,    onions 

and  tomatoes. 
Americaine — (sweet  breads)  with  green  peppers  and 

brown   sauce. 
Americaine — (hash)   with  poached  egg. 
Americaine — (tripe)     baked    with    white    sauce    and 

oysters. 
Americaine — (scallops)     in    shell,     baked    with    salt 

pork. 
Americaine — (fowl)     with    white    sauce,     sweet    po- 
tatoes,   onions   and  pork. 
Americaine — (eggs)    cold,    stuffed   with    lobster    and 

tomato    sauce. 
Amie — braised   with   peppers. 
Amiral — poached   with   white    wine   and   mushrooms, 

oysters,    truffles,    mussels. 
—  d' Amourettes;    of    kidney    and   marrow    giblets. 
Amphytrion — stuffed  with  oysters,   devilled  &   fried. 
Ancienne — (fish)    poached,    sauce   Bercy. 
Ancienne — (clams)    baked  in  shell,  with  bacon. 
Ancienne — (grouse)     with    puree    of    chestnuts    and 

port   wine    sauce. 
Ancienne — (peas)    stewed  with  cream,   egg-yolks  and 

butter. 
Andalouse — (fish)     poached    with    white    wine    and 

egg-plant    or   poached    with   tomato    gratine. 
a    r  Andalouse;     for    meats,     stewed    lettuce    and 

cabbage,     sausages,,     ham,     tomatoes,     chick-peas, 
"        Spanish   sauce. 
Andrews — saute  with  peppers  and  tomatoes. 
Anges  a  Cheval — skewer  with  poached  oysters,  fried 

bacon   and  crusts. 
Anglaise — (fish)    broiled    or    fried,    anchovie    butter 

with    Maitre    d' Hotel. 
Anglaise — (sweet   breads)    with   ham   and  brown   sc. 
Anglaise — (stuffed  fowl)   stuffed  with  fowl-livers  and 

bread    stuffing. 


Garhishes 117 Baillard 

Anglaise — (eggs)  poached  on  crust  with  cheeso» 
gratine. 

Anglaise — (vegetable)  boiled  in/  salt  water,  fresh 
butter   on    top. 

Antiboise — (fish)  breaded  and  fried  with  saut& 
tomatoes. 

Anthony — (eggs)   with  blood-pudding  and  apples. 

Anthonelly — ^(cold  eggs)  in  sweet  pepper  with  ma- 
yonnaise. 

—  Anversoise;   artichoke  bottoms  with  hop-shoots  in 

cream,    endive   stewed  in  butter. 

—  Anversoise:   for  i)ork ;    sauce  piguante  and  apples. 
Archiduc — (fish)    poached,    in    timbal    with    oysters* 

mushi-ooms,    lobster   slices,   truffles,    sc.   Normande. 
Archiduc — (sweet    breads)    larded,    braised,    kidneys, 

mushrooms,    truffles,    peas. 
Arcisse — (veal)    with    puree    of    dandelion. 
Ardennaise — (endive)     blanched,     stewed    in    butter, 

dices    of   ham    and   bacon. 
Argentine — like  Espagnol  and  creole,   with  tomatoes, 

peppers,  mushrooms  and  onions. 
Argentueil — (fish)     poached     in     white     wine     with' 

asparagus    tips. 
Argentueil — (Entrees)  with  asparagus. 
Arlequinne — with   vary-colored   sauces. 
Arizona — with    mashed    potatoes,    horseraddish    and 

fried    apples. 

—  Arlesienne ;     for    meats,     braised    lettuce,     stuffed 

onions,     potatoes     chateau     and     sauce    madere, 
egg-plant. 
Armagnac — stuffed   with    duxelle,    sauce    chasseur. 

—  Armenonville ;     truffles,     minced     potatoes,     white- 

wine,    cepes,    glazed,    white    sauce. 
Armenonville — (fowl)   with  artichokes,  tomatoes  and 

brown    sauce. 
Artagnan — (eggs)  with  mushrooms,  goose's  fat  liver,. 

Hollandaise  sauce. 
Aubergine — egg-plant    stuffed   with    duxelle,    gratinS^ 
Augustine — with  cream  sauce,  au  gratin. 
Astronome — (fish)      poached     with     Italian     sauce» 

stuffed    egg-plant,    grating. 
Athalin — (game)   with  portwine  sauce  and  apples. 
Attilas — (game)    with  portwine   sauce   and  apples. 
Baduca — (fish)     poached    in    white    wine,     tomatoes- 

and  potatoes   croquettes. 
Baillard — (Entrees)     with    mushrooms    and    truffleSy 

foie  gras. 


Garnishes 118 Beaumarchais 

Bagration — (lobstei;)    slices    on    toast    with    Russian 

salad,   mayonnaise   and  herbs. 
Bagration — (fish)   saute  with  white  wine  and  brown 

sauce. 
Bahama — (lobster)    curry,    rice,    tomatoes. 
Balzac — (scrambled   eggs)    with   tongue,    truffles   and 

tomatoes. 
Balzac — (venison  steak)   broiled  with  bananas,  port- 
wine    and    raisins. 
Baltimore — (crustacean)    chafing   dish,    cream    sauce, 

bacon,    peppers. 
Bamboche — (scrod)     filets     rolled     up,     fried     with 

vegetable    Macedoine. 
—  a    la    Banquiere ;    fish,    lobster    tails,    artichokes, 
cucumbers,      truffles,      mushrooms;       (for      cold 
dishes)    with   French  dressing. 
Banquiere — (Entrees)    boned    quails,    stuffed,    sauce 

Perigord. 
Baron — (veal)     fried    eggs,     oysters,     anchovies,     to- 
mato   sauce;     for     "duck"     with    portwine    sauce 

and    apples. 
Baronne — (Schnitzel)      with     eggs,     anchovies     and 

oysters. 
Bartholdy — (crustacean)     with    green    peppers    and 

cream    sauce. 
Basompierre — saute   with   white   wine,    oyster   plant, 

truffles  and  spinach. 
Basque — (sardines)     fried    in    oil,     Bearnaise    sauce 

with    capres. 
Basque — (Entrees)    with    mushrooms,    tomatoes    and 

peppers. 
Bateliere — (pike)   marinaded  in  slices,  batter,   fried, 

Tartare    sauce. 

—  a    la    Bayard;    with    truffles,    mushrooms,    chicken 

breasts,    tongue    .iulienne,    demi-glace. 

—  a   la   Beatrice ;    with    morrels    saute,    new    carrots, 

artichokes,    potatoes. 

—  B.  B.;  (crab-flakes),  baked  with  green  pepper. 
Bayard — (crab-flakes)  baked  with  green  peppers. 
Beaucaire — (eel)    stuffed    with    mushrooms,    poached 

in    white    wine,    brandy,    butter. 

Beauchamps — (lobster)  in  court-bouillon  with  on- 
ions,  Rouennaise   sauce. 

Beaumarchais — (filet)  crusts,  mushrooms,  Bearnaise 
sauce. 

—  a  la  Beauford ;    fish  with  button  mushrooms,   lob- 

ster,   oysters. 


Garnishes 119 Bercy 

Beauregard — (oysters)    baked    in    butter    with    slice 

of    bacon. 
Bedford — (fish)      broiled     sauce     Mornay,     grating, 

mushrooms    and    truffles. 
Beighets — (oysters)    breaded   and   fried. 
Bel- Air — (Entrees)      with     mushrooms     and     green 

peppers. 
Belle-Andalouse — (eggs)    fried  with  rice  a  la  Creole. 
Belle-vue — (lobster)     in    slices     on    carcasse,    filled 

with    salad   Russe. 
Belle-Helene — (Entrees)      croquettes     of     asparagus 

tijjs,   truffles,  jus. 
Belmont — (fish)    with   cream   sauce,   mushrooms  and 

truffles,    peppers    and    paprika. 
Belmont — (sot-ly-laisse)     minced     fowl,     mushrooms, 

potatoes. 
Belmont — (Entrees)      with      stuffed     tomatoes     and 

peppers. 
Belmont — (crabs)   on  brochette,  devilled  yrith  bacon. 
Belot — (filet)     in     casserol,     mushrooms,     vegetables 

and    brown    sauce. 
Ben- All — (fowl)    with   green  peppers,    tomatoes   and 

mushrooms. 
Ben-All — (eegs)    cold   in   jelly   with   asparagus   tips. 
Ben-Ali — (fish)    white    wine,    smelts    and    shrimps. 
Benedictine — (eggs)    poached   on  muffin,   Hollandaise 

sauce,    slices    of   ham,    truffles. 
Benedictine — (scrod)    poached,    potatoes,    milk,    but- 
ter,   oil,    gratine. 
Benclan — (eggs)    scrambled  with  red  peppers,  green 

peppers,   truffles. 
Bennet — with  cream   sauce   au  gratin. 
Bennet — (eggs)    stuffed   with    tomatoes. 
Benjamin — (Entrees)     with     artichokes,     asparagus, 

green  peas   and  brown  sauce. 
Benoiton — (scrod)     saute    in    red    wine,    oil,    butter 

and    onions,    crumbs,    gratine. 
Benoiton — (coquille)      with      calf's      brains,      mush- 
rooms   and    white    sauce. 
Beranger — (fowl-moss)   with  cream  sauce. 
— 'a    la    Bercy;     for    fish,    poached    in    white    wine, 

shallots,     tomatoes. 
Bercy — (omelette)     with    herbs. 

Bercy — (filet)    with    kidneys,    onions    and    Madeira. 
—  a     la    Berchoux ;     poached    in    white    wine,     gar- 
niture   julienne    of    celery,     carrots    and    fresh 
mushrooms. 


Garnishes 120 Black-Forest 

Bergere — (eggs)    poaclied    with,    lamb-hash,    grating. 
Bergere — (sweet    breads)    in    casserole,    with    celery, 

sorrel,   onions,   mushrooms  and  brown   sauce. 
Bernhardine — (fish)    with  white   wine,   caviar,    fried 

oysters   and  potatoes. 
Bernhardine — (Entrees)     on    crust,    asparagus    tips, 

brown  sauce. 
Bernhard — (fowl)     saute    mushroms,    brown    sauce, 

tomatoes. 
Berny — (game)     potato     croquettes,     tartlets     with 

puree   of   lentils   and   truffles. 
Berlin — (Schnitzel)    with  fried   eggs,    anchovies   and 

fried    oysters. 
Berlin   style — (sausages)    with   sour   crout,   potatoes 

and    quenelles. 
B6richonne — (Entrees)  with-  braised  cabbage,  bacon, 

chestnuts,    onions    and   glaze. 
—  a  la  Paul  Berte;   poached  with  fish  stock. 
Berichonne — (lamb)    with  potatoes   and  tomatoes. 
Bertholon — with    stuffed    olives    and   mushrooms. 
Bertier — with    truffles,    tongue,    mushroms    and    to- 
mato  sauce. 
Berthelot — (eggs)     poached     with     brown     tomatoes 

and    baked. 
Bervillaise — (fish)    stuffed    and    broiled,    Maitre    d' 

Hotel. 
Beurre-fondu — (fish)   poached,  potatoes,  melted  but- 
ter. 
Beurre  noir — poached  or  saute,  lemon-juice,  vinegar, 

herbs,    black  butter,    potatoes. 
Biarritz — stuffed    with    ham,     truffles,    breaded    and 

pepper   sauce. 
Biarritz — (game)    with  rice,    truffles   and  artichokes. 
T'ienvenue — (eggs)    cheese,    cream,   grating. 
Bierkrapfen — (carp)    slices   saute   in   butter,   onions, 

celery,    parsley   and  beer. 
Bignon — (Entrees)  in  casserole  with  peppers;  B6ar- 

naise    (fowl). 
Bijou — in  tomatoes   with   sweet  breads   and   tomato 

sauce. 
Binda — (crab     meat)     with     green    peppers,     mush- 
rooms   and    cream    sauce. 
Bitok    Polonaise — with   white    sauce. 
Bizantine — (Entrees)     with     potatoes     stuffed    with 

cauliflower,    braised   lettuce,    jus. 
Black-Forest— -(game)     with    mushrooms     and     salt 

pork. 


Garnishes 121 Bouchdre 

Au    Bleu — poached   in    court-bouillon,    melted   butter 

and    potatoes,     (for    fish). 
Bohemieue — (game      birds)      stuffed-      truffles      and 

goose's    fat    livers,    Madeira    sauce. 

—  a    la    Boitel ;     for    fish,    poached    in    white    "wine, 

herbs,    mushrooms,    shallots,    gratinee. 
Bohemienne — (eggs)    poached,   ham,   sauce  bechamel. 
Boistel — the    same   but    saute    instead    of   poached. 
Boivin — (filet)    with   potato   julienne    and  brown   sc. 
Bonanza — (shad)    saute   in   butter,    herbs. 
Bonneau — (fowl)     with     mushrooms,     tomatoes     and 

cepes. 
Bonneau — (eggs)    with    brown    tomatoes,    ham    and; 

peppers. 

—  a   la    Bonne   Femme;    for   fish;    poached   in  white 

wine    with    fish    stock,    gratinee. 

—  a   la  Bonne  Femme;    for  fowl;    see  poulet. 

— a    la    Bonne    Femme;    for    vegetables,    with    white 

onions. 
Bonne-femme — (eggs)     onions,     mushrooms,     glazed, 

gratine. 
Bonne-femme — (omelette)      with      sausages,      olives 

and   brown   sauce. 
Bonne-femme — (fricassee)     with     onions,     peas     and 

white    sauce. 
Bonnefoy — (lobster)    in    chafing    dish,    shallots    and 

brown  sauce. 

—  a  la  Bonne  Poy ;   with  shallots  and  Colbert  sauce. 
Bonnew — (terrine)    with  potatoes   and   Bordelaise. 
Bontout,    Bontoux — with   bacon,    mushrooms,    onions 

and   white    sauce. 
Bontout,    Bontoux — (timbale)    macaroni,   mushrooms, 
ham,    tongue    and    fowl. 

—  a    la    Bontoux;     with    small    patties    filled    with 

noodles,     (for    game). 
Bonneheur — (filets)     with     artichokes,     mushrooms 

and  brown   sauce. 
Bonvalet — (eggs)    with    tomatoes    and    ham. 

—  a    la    Bordelaise;    for    meat;     shallots,    red    wine, 

cepes,   Spanish  sauce,  marrow. 

—  a     la     Bordelaise ;     for    fowl ;     see     fowl,     poulet, 

poussin. 
Boston    style — (eggs)    with    lobster,    crab-flakes    and; 

cream     sauce;      (pot     pie)     baked     with     beans;^ 

(beans)    baked  with    salt   pork. 
Boston   style — (fish)    with   cream   sauce. 
Bouch^re — (pork)    with  potatoes   and  onions. 


Crarnishes 122 Brestoise 

Boucycault — (oysters)  baked  with  tomatoes  and 
chopped  celery.  (Entrees)  with  stuffed  mush- 
rooms,    tomatoes,    brown    sauce. 

Bougeaud — (lamb)    with    puree    o:    boS-HZ- 

Bouillabaise — see  letter. 

Boulangere — (fish)  braised  with  white  wine,  sorrel 
and   onions. 

Boulangere — (Entrees')  sautft  with  olives,  calf's 
brains,    spinach    and    artichokes. 

Boulangere — (fowl)    with   potatoes    and   onions. 

Boulonnaise — (herring)  fresh  herring  poached,  mus- 
sels,   butter    sauce. 

—  a  la  Boiiquetiere ;    with   carrots,   mushrooms,   truf- 

fles,     artichokes,      asparagus,      tips;      for     cold 

dishes,    French   dressing   or    chaud   froid    sauce. 

Bourbilly — (fish)      stuffed,     lobster     sauce,     oysters 

and    truffles. 
Bourgeoise — (fish)    poached   in   white   wine. 
Bourgeoise — (Entrees)      potatoes      rissolee,      carrots, 

onions    and    bacon,    thick    juice. 
Bourgeoise — (fricassee)    with    curry    and    rice. 
Bourgeoise — (fowl)    with   fresh  vegetables. 
Bourguignone — (fish)    poached   in  red  wine,    onions, 

mushrooms   and  herbs. 
Bourguignone — (eggs)     shirred    with    Bordelaise. 
Bourguignone — (clams)   baked  in  shell  with  shallots. 

onions    and    mushrooms. 
Brabanconne — (Entrees)    tartlets  filled  with   sprouts 

and   sauce   Mornay,    potato    croq. 
Brandade — (fish)     cut    in   dices,    tossed   in   oil   with 

milk,    onions    and   garlic. 
Bresilienne — with    stuffed   peppers. 
Brebant — (sirloin)    with   potatoes. 
Brehan — (Entrees)   with  artichokes,  beans  and  truf- 
fles,   cauliflower   and  potatoes. 
Breteuil — (fish)    on    toast    with    melted    butter    and 

broiled    oysters. 

—  a   la  Bretonne ;    for   fish,   poached  in  white  wine, 

roots,    cream,    bretonne    sauce. 

Bretonne — (Entrees)  with  red  beans,  fried  onions 
and  Espagnol. 

Bretonne — (eggs)  hard  boiled,  stuffed  with  onions, 
gratine. 

Brestoise — (fish)  with  scallops,  shallots,  mush- 
rooms,   German    sauce,    gratine. 

Brestoise — (lobster)    in    shell    with    cream    sauce. 


Garnishes 123 Calcutta 

Brillat-Savarin — (fish)  poached  white  wine,  mush- 
rooms,   onions,    gratine. 

Brillat-Savarin — (fowl)  stuffed,  ham,  truffles,  arti- 
chokes,  mushrooms,   brown   sauce,   casser. 

■ — -a  la  Brillat  Savarin ;  crusts  and  canes  with  to- 
mato   piirce,    braised    artichokes. 

Brillat-Savarin — ( chops  j     spinach    and    ham. 

—  a    la    Bristol ;    for    meats,    croquette    of    rissotto,. 

glazed    carrots     and    green    beans. 
Bristol — (fish)     sauce     Bearnaise. 

—  de   Brochettes  au  Parmesan;    with   cheese   giblets 

on    skewers. 
— ■  de  Broccoly;  with  flower  cabbages. 
Bruehl — larded  with  potatoes,    truffles,  Italian  sauce 
and   gratine. 

—  a   la   Brunoise;    of   vegetables. 

Brunswick — (canapee)  of  sausage  with  anchovie- 
paste. 

—  a    la    Bruxelloise ;    of   brussels    sprouts. 
Buck — (omelette)    with   tomatoes. 

Buenna- Vista — (fish)     baked    with    Espagnole. 

—  en    Bouisson;    for    fish;    poached    in    white    wine^ 

with    fish    broth    and    herbs;    cold. 

Buisson — (filets  of  soles)  fried,  piled  in  pyramid; 
en  buisson  means   lit.   piled  up. 

Bull — (hash)  in  bordure  with  green  peppers  and 
baked. 

Burnett — (stuffed  eggs)  with  sausages  and  tomato 
sauce. 

Bussy — (chops)    stuffed,   truffle    sauce. 

Byrnes — (fish)  in  casserole  with  peppers  and  to- 
matoes. 

Byron — (sweet    breads)    under    glass,    brown    sauce» 

Cafe  Anglais — with  artichokes,  mushrooms  and 
brown   sauce. 

Cafe  Helder — with  vegetable  croquette  and  Bear- 
naise  sauce. 

Cafe  Voisin — (eggs)  with  tomato  and  Bearnaise 
sauce,    fowl    force-meat. 

Cahil — (fish)    with    shrimps    on    toast,    grating. 

Calaisienne — in  r)ar)ilotte  with  Maitre  butter,  mush- 
rooms   and    shallots. 

Calcutta — (fish)  filets  stuffed,  poached,  curry 
sauce    with    mushrooms. 

Calcutta — other  garnishes;  mostly  with  rice  and 
curry. 


Garnishes 124 Carmen 

California — (crustacean)  "baked  with,  cream  sauce, 
mushrooms    and    green    peppers. 

Calve — (sweet  breads)  in  casserole  with  fresh 
mushrooms. 

'Calve — (eggs)  poached  with  fowl-hash  and  souf- 
fle   potatoes. 

'Cambridge — (shirred  eggs)  with  lobster,  mush- 
rooms, peppers  and  cream  sauce. 

—  a    la    Cambaceres ;    of   truffles,    mushrooms,    olives. 
Camerani — (Entrees)   with  braised  sour  crout,  veal 

Jus.    and    truffles. 

'CJampanini — (sweet  breads)  on  crust,  baked  with 
mushrooms. 

Camilla — (crustacean)  with  tomatoes,  paprika,  pep- 
pers,   mushrooms    and    brown    sauce. 

—  a     la     Cancale,     (fish);     poached,     oysters,     sauce 

.Normande    of   oysters. 

Canotiere — (carpe)  stuffed  and  poached,  tomatoes 
and    gratine. 

Canotiere — (fish)     saute    with    roes. 

•Canova — (Entrees)  foie-gras,  fowl-livers,  truffles 
and    demi-glace. 

Caresa — (filets)  with  artichokes,  asparagus  and 
brown    sauce. 

Capitollade — (fowl)  with  mushrooms,  truffles,  sweet 
breads  and  olives. 

'Capres — (fish)  poached  with  sauce  Hollandaise  and 
capres. 

— Capelletti;  of  Italian  raviolis;  (stuffed  noodles) 
tomato   sauce. 

'Capoul — (fowl)  saute  with  cepes,  potatoes  and  ar- 
tichokes. 

—  a    la    C'lrdinal,     Cfish)  :     with    shells    of    lobster. 
Caresa — (filets)     with    artichokes,     asparagus    and 

brown    sauce. 

Careme — (fish)  stuffed  with  truffles,  poached  in 
red   wine    and   herbs,    Hollandaise    sauce. 

Careme — (crustacean)  in  cream  sauce  with  crabs 
and   mushrooms. 

Careme — (Entrees  maigre)  on  crust  with  combs, 
mushrooms    and   artichokes. 

Carlo — (sweet  breads)  in  casserole  with  sweet  pep- 
pers. 

Carlotta — (mince)  in  casserole,  baked  with  mush- 
rooms  and   truffles. 

'Carmen — (sweet  breads)  in  coquille  with  mush- 
roms,   white   sauce   and  baked. 


Garnishes 125 Cervantes 

Carmen — (eggs)  poached,  slice  of  ham,  grilled 
tomato,   Hollandaise  with  mustard. 

Carmencita — (filet)  with  tomatoes  and  sweet  pep- 
pers. 

Carnegie — (filet)  with  artichokes,  asparagus  tips, 
truffles   and   brown   sauce. 

Carrol — (crustacean)  with  cream  sauce,  baked  in 
shell. 

Caroline — (fish)    with   rice    a    I'Espagnole. 

—  a    la    Rose    Caron;    for    fish;    poached    in    white 

wine,    half    shrimp    sauce,    half   pistachio    sauce. 

Carolina — (fowl-wings)    with    sweet    potatoes    saute. 

Cartouche — with  lobster,  potatoes,  olives  and  but- 
ter   sauce. 

Castelane — (chops)  in  casserole  with  tomatoes,  and 
peppers. 

Castiglione — (fish)  poached  with  wine,  lobster,  po- 
tatoes,  mushrooms,   browned. 

—  a    la    Castillane;    of    lobster   tails,    truffles,    white 

sauce    of    oyster    broth,     (fish). 

Castillane — croquette  with  sautS  tomatoes,  little 
fried    onions,    fond    with    tomatoes. 

Catalane — (fish)  poached  on  saute  tomato,  stuffed 
with    onion    puree,    browned. 

— a  la  Catalane ;  for  fish,  stuffed,  poached  in  white 
wine,  celery  puree  or  broiled  with  sauce  and 
mushrooms   as-  for   white   fish,    (pike). 

Catalane — (Entrees)  with  sausages,  chestnuts,  on- 
ions,   stuffed    tomatoes,    mushrooms. 

Catalane — (filets)  with  stuffed  tomatoes  and  sweet 
peppers. 

Catherine — (eggs)   in  potato  bordure  with  brown  sc. 

Cavaliero — (fowl)    with    rice,    grating. 

Cauchoise — with    cabbages    and   mussels. 

Cecile — (Entrees)   with  artichokes  and  brown  sauce. 

Cecilia — (fish)    saute  in  butter  with  asparagus  tips. 

Cedar — (fish)    with    oysters,    truffles    and   white    sc. 

Celadon — (fish)    split  with  anchovies  and  butter. 

—  a   la   Centenaire;    for   meats,   with   braised  endive 

and  potatoes  duchesse. 

—  Celery   rave ;    of  knob    celery. 

— :.CSpes;   of  a  kind  of  large  mushrooms;   Steinpilze. 
CeCtbise — (crustacean)    in   chafing  dish   with  brown 

sauce    and    brandy. 
• — Cervelles;    of   brains. 
Cervantes — (fish)    with    sweet   peppers    and   butter. 


Garnishes 126 Chiffonade 

C.  H. —  (chops)  in  casserole  with  potatoes,  arti- 
chokes,   onion   and   brown   sauce. 

Chamberry — with  potatoes,   leeks,   bacon  and  cheese. 

Chambertin — poached  in  white  wine,  with  fried 
fish   filets,    (fish). 

—  a    la    Chartreuse ;    of    vegetable,    thimble    moulds. 

—  a  la  Chambord,    (fish);  baked  carp,  brown  sauce, 

mushrooms,    quenelles   and  truffles. 
Champeau — (fowl)     in     casserole,     potatoes,     mush- 
rooms  and  glaze. 

—  a    la    Champenoise ;     for    fish,    braised    in    Cham- 

pagne,   cream   sauce   of   stock. 

Champere — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  on  rice- 
with   sauce    Normande. 

Chanoinesse — (fowl)  saute  with  mushrooms  and 
cepes. 

Chantilly — (for  cold  ham)  horseraddish  sauce,  mix- 
ed with  cream. 

Charcutiere — (pork)  saute  with  brown  mu&tard 
sauce,    pickles    and    apples. 

Chartres — (Entrees)    with  glazed  turnips. 

Chartres — (fowl)       fowl-quenelles      with      estragon^ 
•  (taragon). 

Chartres — (chops)    with    vegetable    salad. 

Chartres — (eggs)  poached,  cold,  tomatoes,  vege- 
tables,   mayonnaise. 

Chateaux — (Entrees)  with  potatoes,  onions  and 
sauce    chateau. 

—  a  la  Chatelaine ;   artichoke  bottoms  with  chestnut 

puree,    gratinee,   braised,    lettuce,   potatoes   noi- 
settes. 
— 'a    la    Chambord,     (fish);    of    carp    roes,    with   vil- 
leroy    sauce ;    sole   giblets,    fish   quenelles,    cray- 
fish   tail,    button    mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Cherubin;    brunoise   of  vegetables   and  fresh 

mushrooms,    crusts   of    soubise. 
Chauchois — (chops)    with    brown   sauce   and   apples. 
Cheron — (Entrees)     artichoke    bottoms    with    green 
peas,    marrow,    Parisian    pot    and    Bearnaise. 

—  a  la   Chauchat ;    for  fish ;   poached  in  white  wine, 

potatoes,   gratinee. 
Cendrillon — (quail)     baked    in     crust,    white    sauce 
and    truffles. 

—  a    la    Chevaliere;    of    mushrooms,    truffles,    cock's 

combs ;    for  fish,   with  white   sauce. 

—  Chez    Soi;    with  vegetables;    served   separate. 

—  a    la    Chiffonade ;    of    different    green    vegetables.. 


tJarnishes  127  Colombine 

—  a    la    Chipolata ;     of    small     sausages,     chestnuts, 

bacon,    onions   and   carrots. 

—  a    la    Chivry ;     (fish)    of    oyster    patties,    mussels, 

potato    crusts,    villeroy   sauce. 

Choissy — (fish)    poached  in  white  wine,   truffles  and 
mushrooms. 

Choissy — (Entrees)     with     braised     lettuce,     celery 
knobs    and    chateau   potatoes. 

Churchill — (lobster)    devilled   and   gratine. 

Clara  Ward — (fish)    saute   in  Maitre  butter,    celery, 
mushroms    and    artichokes. 

— -a  la  Claremont;  of  cauliflowers,  asparagus,  pars- 
ley and  cray  fish;  or  for  filets  of  beef,  stuffed 
onions,   cucumbers,   tomatoes. 

Clarence — (fish)    filets  on   potatoes  Duchesse,   sauce 
Mornay   and  gratine. 

Claridge— (fowl)  boneless,  stuffed  with  cSpes  and 
truffles. 

Cleopatre — (fish)  stuffed  with  truffle  force,  poach- 
ed  in    white   wine,    mushrooms,    gratine. 

C16opatre — (chops)  stuffed,  fried  tomatoes,  pota- 
toes,   brown    sauce. 

Clermont — (Entrees)  tartlets  with  chestnut  and 
onion   puree. 

Club-House — (canapee)  on  brioche  with  crab-meat, 
cheese,    ham-hash,    gratine. 

Cocotte — en,  in  fire-proof  vessel  with  mushrooms, 
artichokes    and    potatoes     (fowl). 

Cocotte    Delices — of   foie-gras   and   cream   sauce. 

—  a    la    Colbert ;    for    fish,    split,    stuffed,    breaded, 

fried,  herb  butter. 
Colbert — (steak)    saute  with  puree   of   artichokes. 
Collier — (crustacean)       saute      with      oyster      crabs, 
mushrooms    and   parsley. 

—  a   la   Commodore;    of  crab    crusts,    quenelles,   truf- 

fles  and   mussels. 

—  de    Concombres;    of    cucumbers. 

Countess — (omlette)    with   peas   and  asparagus   tips. 

Comfortable — (beef)  braised  with  spinach  and  truf' 
fle    sauce. 

Continenta-le — with  kidneys,  mushrooms  and  ar- 
tichokes. 

Colinette — (fish)  stuffed  filets  with  truffles,  fried, 
tomato    sauce. 

Colombine — (eggs)  poached,  fresh  mushrooms, 
cream    sauce. 


Garnishes 128 Crescy 

Colombine — (fish)   whole,  haked  brown,  mushrooms, 

mussels,    (sole). 
Columbus — (mince)    with    green    peppers. 
Columbus — (eggs)    cold,    with   foie-gras   and  mayon- 
naise. 
Conde — (fish)     poached,    white    wine,     tomato    and 

tomato    sauce. 
Conti — (fish)     poached    with    white    wine    and    oil, 

chopped   parsley. 
• — ■  a   la    Conti ;    of  puree   of   lentils. 
Compote — (pigeon)     with     bacon,     mushrooms     and 

onions    in    casserole. 
Comptoise — (pork)    with    potatoes    and    onions. 
— -Coquille;    en   or  de,   in  shells. 
Coquille — fish    and    lobster    with    white    wine    sauce 

and    mushrooms,    lobster    butter,    minced,    mixed 

in   coquille,    crumbs   and   gratine. 
— •  de   Coquille   aux  Huitres;    in   shells  with   oysters. 
Corbin — (oysters)     white     sauce     with     herbs     and 

celery. 

—  Coquille    Saint    Jaques ;    fine    herbs,    white    wine,. 

sauce   Mornay,    browned. 

Cornelin — (fish)  poached  white  wine  sauce,  cor- 
ral   and    truffles. 

Cotelettes — (lobster)  lobster  and  fish  in  dices^ 
mushrooms,    oyster   sauce,    bread,    fried. 

—  Coucourcelles ;    for   meats,    with   Italian   pumkins, 

gourdes. 
Coulibiac — brioche    with    cepes,    onions,    mushrooms- 

and  semolina,   poached  fish  filet   on  top,   covered 

with    paste,    hot   melted   butter. 
Comtesse — (filets)     with    artichokes    and    asparagus 

tips. 
Courtoet — (sweet     breads)      saute     with     mushrooms 

and   artichokes. 
Courtisane — (fish)     stuffed    with    duxelle,     poached 

in  white  wine,   potato   croquette. 
Orapaudine — (fowl)   split,  devilled,  broiled,  in  shape 

pf  frog. 
Creme — (fish)     poached    in    butter     and    vegetable, 

sour  cream,   potatoes. 

—  Creme    de    pommes    de    terre;    with    creamed    po- 

tatoes. 

—  Crime    au    gratin;    for    fish,    in    potato    bordure,, 

poached  in  cream,   gratinee. 
Crescy — with   bacon   on   fowl   and   crusts. 


Garnishes 129 Dargensott 

—  Cretes    et    rognons    de    coque;    for    meats,    cock's 

combs    and    kidneys. 

—  a    la    Creole;    poached,    brown    sauce,    mushrooms, 

onions,    green  peppers,    tomatoes. 

Crevettes— ffish)  poached,  sauce  Crevette,  (shrimps> 
with  tails. 

Crispi — (eggs)    on    crab-flakes   with    cream    sauce. 

Crissfield — (fish)  Avith  oysters,  mussels,  mush- 
rooms,   peppers,    brown    sauce. 

Cristierne — saut6  with   curry  and  rice. 

Crolsette — (omelette)  with  calf's  brains  and  brown 
butter. 

—  Croquettes     de     pommes     de     terre ;     with     potato 

croquettes. 

—  Croute    au    Chester;    with   cheese   toast. 

—  Croute    Creuse    a   la    Diable;    with    devilled   toast. 

—  Croute   Creuse   a   la  Hollandaise ;   with  Dutch   sc, 

bread  crusts. 

—  Croutons  for  soups;  of  fried  bread  crusts. 

—  Choux   croutes ;    of  pickled   cabbages. 

—  de  Choux;   of  cabbages. 

—  de    Choux    de    Bruxelles ;    of    Brussels    sprouts. 

—  de  Choux  farcie ;   of  stuffed  cabbages. 

—  de  Choux  fleurs;    of  cauliflowers. 

—  de   Choux  au  fromage ;   with   cheese   puffs. 

—  de    Choux    rave;    of    Kohlraby;    a    delicate    root; 

knob    beets. 

Croisette — (Entrees)    with    potatoes    and    truffle    sc. 

Cubat — (chops)    in  casserole  with  ham  and  spinach. 

Cubat — (fish)  poached  with  butter  and  mushrooms^ 
sauce    Mornay    and    gratine. 

Cubaine — (fish)   with  shrimps,  onions  and  tomatoes. 

Cumberland — (Entrees)     with    portwine    sauce. 

Cur6e — (fowl    livers)    on   brochette   with  potatoes. 

Cussy — (Entrees  and  fowl)  stewed,  stuffed  mush- 
rooms   with    chestnuts,    truffles,    Madeire    sauce. 

Cutting — (sweet  breads)  saute,  fresh  mushrooms^ 
brown    sauce. 

Czarina — (eggs)    cold,    stuffed,    foie-gras  on   toast. 

Dan — (crustacean)    with   lobster   sauce    and   truffles. 

Danoise — (fish)  poached  with  court-bouillon,  an- 
chovie   butter. 

Daniel — (supreme)  saute  with  mushrooms  and 
paprika. 

Dartois — (fish)    poached    in    filets    with    herbs. 

Dargenson — (fish)  with  lobster  sauce,  truffles  and 
tomato    sauce. 


Garnishes  ISO Pi  able 

'—^^^^—^-——^———  ■, 

— 'a   la    Daumont;    for   fish;    braised,    lobster    sauce, 
with   lobster  and  triiffles. 

—  a  la  Dauphine ;  nests  of  straw  potatoes,  with  po- 

tatoes  daiiphine. 

Daumont — (fish  filets)  poached  on  mushrooms,  Nor- 
irande    sauce. 

Daumont — (saimon)  poached  in  white  wine  and 
herbs,    truiSes   quenelles   and   mushrooms. 

Dauphine — (filets)    of   mushrooms    and   potatoes. 

Dauphine — (fowl)  with  foie-gras,  truffles,  cream 
sauce    and   baked. 

Dauphinoise — (fish)  with  lobster,  mushroom,  quen- 
elles   and    lobster    sauce. 

—  a   la   Dauphine ;    for  fish,    of   oysters,    mushrooms, 

truffles,    cray    fish,    mussels. 
Deauviloise — poached    with    onion    mince,    stewed. 
Dejazet — (fish)    filets    in    milk,    breaded    and    fried, 

Bearnaise   and  tomato  sauce. 
Delmonico— (lobster)     saute    in    butter,    sour    cream 

and   Madeira. 
Delphine — with    macaroni,    mixed    with    trufHes    and 

game  puree. 
Delaware — (fish)     with     broiled     tomatoes,     broiled 

Yams,    butter   sauce. 
Delahanty — (fish)    stuffed,    au   gratin. 
Delice — (fish)     with    potatoes,     tomatoes    and    Hol- 

landaise. 
Belice — (eggs)    with    cream    sauce,    cheese    and   foie- 
gras. 
De   Lesseps — (eggs)    with   calf's   brains. 
Deniing — (filets)    with   mushrooms,    egg-plant,    green 

peppers    and   potatoes. 
Demil-deuil — (fish)   poached  in  white  wine,   Genoise 

sauce,    truffles. 
Demidofi — (fowl)    bordure    of    rice,    half -glaze,    truf- 
fles   and    mushrooms;     (fish)     with    white    wine, 

shrimps    and   trufiies. 
Delsart — (lamb)    crusts    with   vegetables    and   white 

sauce. 
Detaille — (fish)    with  vegetables  and  white  wine  sc. 
Dewey — (crustaceans)     with    green    peppers,     clams 

and    cream    sauce. 
Desc;;  *"G — (Entrees)    crusts   with    cuails    &    truffles. 
Des   r.^oines — :( chops)    cold    with    salad. 
Deutsch — (ragout)     with    kidneys,    potatoes,     onions 

and    mushrooms. 
Diabls — (lobster)    broiled    with    mustard    sauce. 


Ga.-i?  s^TCT 131 ■    Dumaa 

Diable — (fish)   broiled,   devilled  sauce. 

Diablotins — (Tish)     fried    with    oysters    and    butter 

sauce. 
Diana — (fowl)    in    casserol   with   mushrooms,    olives 

and    cream   sauce. 

—  a   la    Clamart;    with   puree    of  peas   and  duchesse 

potatoes ;    for   meats,    prravy. 
Dieudoune — (fish)     poached    in    white    wine,     with 

cream,    tomatoes,    onions    and    mushrooms. 
Diplomate — (fish)     poached    with    white    wine    and 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Donier;    for   fish,    scalloped    on   rice    pilaff, 

f'vatiree,    STtice   NantiTi. 
Don    Carlos — (sweet    breads)     with    sweet    peppers, 

mushrooms  and  brown   sauce. 
Don    Juan — (eggs)     with    cream    sauce    and    green 

peppers. 
Doria — (fish)    poached   in    white   wine   with   stewed 

cucumbers    or    saute    Meuniere. 

—  a    la    Dreux ;    of  mushrooms   and   sweetbreads. 
Dreux — (eggs)    in    jelly,    cold,    asparagus    tips. 
Dubarry — (Entrees)     with     cauliflowers,     gratine. 
Dubarry — (fish)     poached,     sauce     Mornay,     truflles 

and    roes. 
Dublin — with     corned     beef     tongue,     potatoes     and 
Euirlish    spinach. 

—  a    la    Duchesse ;    with    different    little    crusts,    or 

Duchesse  potatoes;   when   fish,    saute  in    butter. 

Duchesse — (sweet  breads)  under  glass  bell  with 
mushrooms    and    cream    sauce, 

Dufour — (fish)  in  red  wine  with  peppers  and  to- 
matoes;    (ragout)    with   peppers   and    tomatoes. 

Dufield — (sweet  breads)  Avith  truffles  under  glass- 
bell,    mushrooms    and   gratine. 

—  a    la    Duglere ;    for   fish,    poached   in   white   wine, 

with   minced   fresh   tomatoes. 
Duglere — (crustacean)    with    mushrooms,    artichokes, 

green   peppers    and   white    sauce. 
Dumiis — (sweet  breads)    with   artichokes  and   cream 

sauce. 
Dumas — (Entrees)     with    salpicon,    tongue,    truffles, 

mushrooms   and  Vienna    sauce. 
Dumas — (fricassee)    with   fried    oysters,    mushrooms 

and   white    sauce. 
Dumas — (eggs)    with    cream   sauce    and   cheese. 
Dumas — (fowl)     with    pork,    cabbages    and    carrots. 
Dumas — (omelette)    with   sorrel. 


'Garnishes  132  Epicure 

Dumas — (fresh  goose  liver)  -with  truffles,  mush- 
rooms and  artichokes. 

Duperre — (fish)  with  oysters,  mushrooms  and 
shrimps,    veloute. 

—  a    la    Durand;    of    ham    julienne;    sweet    breads, 

Spanish     sauce,     truffles,     mushrooms,     chicken 
quenelles,    stuffed    olives,    kidneys,    comhs    and 
ragout,  oysters. 
Durand — (eel)    boneless,    stuffed,    herbs,    fond    with 

butter. 
Durana — (fish)    with   truffles,    lobster   and  white   sc. 
Duse — (fish     filets)     stuffed     on     rice-pilaff,     sauce 

Mornay    and    gratine. 
Duval — (Entrees)     with    onions    and    potatoes. 
Duval — (beef)     with    tomatoes    and    piquante    sauce. 
Duval — (fish)    with   onions,    potatoes,    baked. 
• — Ecarlate ;    of   red   tongue,    with   tomato   and   Span- 
ish sauce. 

—  Ecrevisses;    for  fish,   of  cray  fish. 

Ucossaise — (fish)  stuffed  with  spinach  and  white 
wine. 

Ecossaise — (filets)  larded  with  lazagnes  and  toma- 
toes. 

Edith — (fruits)  mixed  with  Curacao,  whipped 
cream,  pistachio  pralinees,  creme  Yvette  and 
violet    pralines. 

Xel-pie — eel  in  alternate  layers  with  hard  eggs  in 
white    wine,    covered    with    paste    and    half-glaze. 

—  Egyptiene;   for  fish,  poached,   Spanish  sauce,  with 

cream,   paper  cases  with  truffles   &  mushrooms. 
Egyptienne — (herring)    saute    in    oil,    tomatoes    and 

onions. 
Egyptienne — (filets)    stuffed  with  peppers,   rice  and 

tomato     sauce. 
Eggs    and    Bacon — country    style;    fried    together. 
Eggs     and    Bacon — scrambled    country     style ;     fried 

eg'£:s,    scrambled  with  cut-up  bacon. 
Elizabeth — with   goose  liver,   mushrooms  and  cream. 
English    style — (mutton)     boiled    with    capre    sauce 

and   vegetables. 
Epicure — (Entrees)    with  mushrooms,   green  peppers 

and  brown  sauce. 
Epicure — (fish)   with  mushrooms,   quenelles,   truffles, 

brown    sauce    and    crayfish. 
Epicure — (eggs)     cold,    in    glass    with    tomato    jelly 

and  foie-gras. 


Ga-iishes 133 Fenouil 

Epicure — (sweet  breads)  kinder  glass-bell,  "with 
white    sauce    and    mushrooms. 

Epicure — (eg^s,   hot)   with  mushrooms  and  white  so. 

Epicure — (clams)    baked   in    shell   with   bacon. 

Epicurienne — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  truf- 
fles   and    Madeira,    anchovie    butter. 

—  d'Epinards;    of  spinach. 

—  d'Escaloppes  de   gibier;    for   cold  dishes,   of  game 

collops. 

—  d'Escaloppes   de  homard;    of   lobster   collops. 

■ — d'Escaloppes    de    langouste;    of    craw   fish    collops. 

—  d'Escaloppes    de    poisson ;    of   fish   collops. 

—  d'Escaloppes   de   volaille ;    of   fowl    collops. 
Escoffier — (fowl)    cream   sauce,    paprika,    mushrooms 

and    morrels. 

Espagnol — (fish)  saut^  in  oil  and  butter,  with 
tomatoes,    onions    and    mushrooms,    brown    sauce. 

Espagnol — (Entrees)    with    glazed    onions. 

Estragon — (eggs,  cold)  with  vegetable  salad,  ma- 
yonnaise   and    taragon. 

Eugenie — (sweet  breads)  with  mushrooms  and 
cream    sauce. 

Eugenie — (brochette)     with    tomato     sauce. 

Eude — (soups)    with   peas,    mutton   and   barley. 

Etretat — (fish)  poached,  sauce  Normande,  oysters, 
truffles,    mushrooms,    shrimps. 

Exquise — (crustacean)  croquette  of  mushrooms, 
truffles   and  lobster  sauce. 

Farci — (fish)  stuffing  with  truffles,  papillote,  baked, 
sauce   mariniere. 

Farmer   style — with   sausages   and  tomatoes. 

Farragout — (poached  eggs)  on  filet  with  mush- 
rooms   and    Italian    sauce. 

—  a    la    Favorite;     of    braised    artichokes,     braised 

lettuce,  potatoes  Anna,  vegetables,'  mushrooms, 
cepes. 

Favorite — (Entrees)  with  foie-gras,  truffles  and 
asparagus    tips. 

Favre — (chops)     brown    sauce,    potato    souffle. 

Fearing — (crustacean)  with  green  peppers  an 
gratin,    mushrooms. 

Fecampoise — (fish)  poached  with  shrimp  sauce, 
mussels   and   shrimps. 

Fedorowna — stuffed,  shrimp  sauce,  truffles,  mush- 
rooms,   shrimps,    mussels    in   Villeroy. 

Fenouil — (fish)  marinaded  in  oil,  fennel  and  lemon- 
juice,    papillote   or   broiled. 


Garnishes 134 Foxestiere 

Feodora — (fish)    poached,    Genoise    sauce,    potatoes. 
■ — a    la   Fermiere;    for  meats;    stewed   cabbages,    let- 
tuce,   carrots,   potatoes. 
Fermiere — (fish)    poached    in    red   wine,    fond   with 

butter. 
Fervaal — (Entrees)    with  potato   Duchesse   and   ham 

puree,    artichokes    with    herbs. 

—  a  la  Figaro ;   for  fish,   breaded,   fried,   mayonnaise 

with  tomatoes. 

—  de  Fillets  mignon  de  volaille;   for  meats,   of  fowl 

breasts. 

—  Fines     hsrbes;      (fish)     poached     in     white     wine 

with  herbs. 

—  a    la    Financiere;     for    meats,     foie    gras,     sweet- 

breads,    quenelles,     mushrooms,     cock's    combs, 
kidneys,    truffles,    financiere    sauce. 

—  a    la    Financiere;    for    fish,    mushrooms,    oysters, 

mussels,    quenelles,    in   white   wine. 

—  a    la    Finnelly ;    for    fish,    breaded,    fried,    oyster 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Flamande ;    for    meats,    of    bacon,    cabbage, 

turnips    and    carrots. 

—  a   la   Finnoise.;    for   fish,    poached   in  white   wine, 

green  peppers  and  tomato   sauce. 

Flamande — (fish)  eel,  stewed  in  white  wine  with 
herbs. 

Fleurette — (eggs)    with    chives    and    cream,   sauce. 

Floreal^(fish  filets)  stuffed,  saute  in  butter,  cro- 
quette   with    asparagus     tips. 

—  a    la    Florentine ;     for    fish,     of    stewed     spinach, 

sauce  Mornay,   gratinee. 

Florentine — (Entrees)  croquettes  with  semolina, 
spinach,    half-glaze    with    tomatoes, 

Floriaif — (Entrees)  with  braised  lettuce,  onions, 
carrots   and  potatoes. 

Florimont — (eel)  marinaded,  in  papillote  and  broil- 
ed,   Maitrs   butter   with   shallots. 

—  de  Foie  Gras;   for  cold  dishes,   of  fat  goose  liver. 

—  de  Foie  de  Lotte;    of  eel  pout  livers. 

—  de    Fond    d'Artichauds ;    of    artichoke    bottoms. 

—  de    Fondue;    of    melted    cheese. 

—  a  la  Foret  de   Senart;    of  fried  parsley  branches. 
Forestiere — (Entrees)    with   bacon,    morrel,    potatoes 

and    duxelle. 

—  a   la   Dimitri ;   for  fish ;    in  white  wine  sauce,    an- 

chovies   and   potatoes. 


Garnishes 135 Genevoise 

—  a   la   Diplomate;    for  fish;    fried  with  lobster   sc, 

or  poached   in   white  wine. 

—  a  la  Dieppoise;   for  fish,  of  mussels,  white  wine, 

shrimps,    mushrooms. 
Fouche — (fowl)    in   casserol  with   brown   sauce. 

—  a  la  Franoaise ;  for  meats,  little  fried  crusts  with 

vegetable    macedoine. 

Francaise — (fish)  poached,  sauce  Bearnaise  with 
tomatoes. 

Francillon — (fish)  broiled  on  toast  with  anchovy 
butter,    straw    potatoes. 

Frankfort — (fish)  saute  Avith  white  wine,  Cum- 
berland  sauce. 

Frascaty — with  asparagus  tips,  _  foie-gras,  mush- 
rooms,  triiffles,   potatoes,   Madeira. 

French — (ragout)  with  mushrooms  and  green  pep- 
pers. 

Frit — (anchovies)    fried    in    oil,    parsley. 

Fritadelloes — meat    croquettes. 

Fritot  Parisienne — (fish-filets)  poached  in  butter, 
breaded,    fried,    tomato    sauce. 

Frou-Frou — (eggs)     cold    in    jelly    with    mayonnaise. 

Fruits  de  mer — poached  in  white  wine,  sauce  Nor- 
mande,    oysters    and   mussels. 

Gabriel — (poached  eggs)  with  rice,  foie-gras  and 
kidneys. 

Galicienne — (fish)  with  potato  croquette,  cream 
snuce   and   gratine. 

Gambetta — (crustacean)  '  shallot,  fine  herbs  and 
Bordelaise. 

Gastronome — (sausages)  broiled  with  potato  puree, 
graline. 

Gastro:iome — (steak)  with  mashed  potatoes  and 
brown    sauce. 

Gastronome — (fowl)  with  morrels,  chestnuts,  truf- 
fles,   sweet   breads,    combs,    brown    sauce. 

Garcia — (poached  eggs)  on  toast  with  fowl  puree, 
sweet    pepners    and    Madeira. 

Gates — (fowl)  stuffed  with  foie-gras,  truffles,  rice 
in   casserol. 

Gauloise — (foAvl)  with  truffles,  mushrooms,  combs, 
kidneys   and  ham,   Espagnol. 

Gavarni — (trout)  stewed  in  papillote,  Maitre  but- 
ter,   potatoes. 

Genevoise — (fish)  poached,  sauce  Genevoise,  po- 
tatoes. 


Garnishes 136 Grande 

Genevoise — (Entrees)    with    roots    and    sauce    Gene- 

voise. 
Genoise — (fish)  poached  in  red  wine,  sauce  Genoise 

with    mushrooms,    roes    and    crayfish. 
Georgette — (crayfish)     baked    potatoes    stuffed    with 

crayfish   tails   a   la    Nantua. 
Georgette — (trotters)     broiled    with    saute    potatoes, 

sweet  peppers   and   devilled    sauce. 

—  a  la  Georgiene;   green  peppers,  rice,  stock,  stuffed 

and  baked  tomatoes. 

Germaine — (eggs,    cold)    in  jelly  with  lobster. 

Gervaise — (fish)  broiled  with  Bearnaise  sauce  and 
tomatoes. 

Gibson — (chops)  stuffed  with  fresh  tomatoes  and 
brown   sauce. 

Girard — (chops)  with  sweet  peppers  and  onion 
puree. 

Girard — (duck)  with  sweet  potatoes  and  portwine 
sauce. 

Gladstone — (sweet  breads)  with  mushrooms,  stuf- 
fed   tomatoes    and   truffle    sauce. 

Gladys — (eggs)  poached  in  cream  sauce  with  to- 
mato   and    fish    force-meat. 

—  a   la    Godard;    for  meats,    truffles,    chicken  quenel- 

les, sweet  breads,  glazed  veal  grenadins,  cock's 
combs,  kidneys  and  livers. 
Godard — (fish)     poached     in     white     wine,     lobster 
butter,    shrimps,    truffles,    mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Gondoliere ;   for  fish,   stuffed,  poached,  Vene- 

tian sauce. 
Goujons — (fish)      in     small     filets,     breaded,     fried, 

tomato    sauce. 
Gounod — (fowl)    in    casserol    with    mushrooms    and 

green   peppers. 

—  a  la   Gourmet;    of  artichoke  bottoms,   mushrooms, 

truffles,    madeire   and   tongue. 

—  a   la    Gourmet ;    for   fish,    broiled,    gourmet    sauce. 
Gourmet-^  (sole)     poached,     white    wine,     bechamel, 

crayfish    tails. 

Gourmet — (eggs)  scrambled  with  mushrooms  and 
bacon. 

Gourmet — (oysters)  baked  in  shell  with  ravigot 
butter. 

Gourmet — (filets)    with    shallots    and   marrow. 

Grande — (Entrees)  with  artichokes,  celery  mush- 
rooms   and   brown    sauce. 


Garnishes 137 Harbischer 

Grand   Due — (fish    filets)    poached   in    crown    shape 

with    asparagus    tips,    Mornay,    gratine. 
Grand    Due — (sweet    breads)    saute   with    asparagus 

tips,    browned. 
Grant — (fish)    saute   meuniere  with  white  butter; 
Grant — (fowl)    with    onions    and   celery,    Bordelaise. 
Gratin — (fish)    poached  in  white  wine,   shallots  and 

parsley,    mushrooms    and    crumbs,    melted   butter- 

gratine. 
Graudens — (Entrees)     with     olives,     chestnuts     and 

brown    sauce. 

—  a    la    Grecque;    of    okra    in    stock    and    madeire 

sauce,   bearnaise  sauce  with  rice  and  tomatoes. 

—  a    la   Grecque;    for   fish,    with  white   wine   sauce, 

potatoes    and   herbs,    lemon,    gratin^e. 

—  a    la    Grise,    pour   Crevettes ;    shrimps,    dipped   in 

milk  and  fried. 

Grenadins — (fish)  fish-filets  in  heart-shape,  poach- 
ed,   white    wine,    truffles. 

Grenobloise — (fish)  saute  in  butter,  capers,  beeta 
and    cucumbers. 

Grenobloise — (fowl)    with    artichokes    and    potatoes. 

Grenobloise — (omelette)    with    sorrel    and    onions. 

Grissfield — (fish)  with  mussels,  mushrooms,  green 
peppers,     baked. 

Grevy — ^(fowl)    broiled    with   brown    sauce. 

Gugusse — (Entrees)  with  tomatoes,  fowl-livers, 
mushrooms    and   brown    sauce. 

Guatemala — ^( mince)    baked  with   green   peppers. 

—  a    la    Guilbert;     for    fish;    poached    white    wine, 

coral  and  chives. 
Guilford — (omelette)  with  clams  and  green  peppers. 
Hadding — (fowl)     in    casserol    with    sweet    peppers. 
Hacienta — with  mashed  potatoes  and  sweet  peppers. 

—  a    la   Halevy;    poached   with    supreme   and   tomato 
Haggins — saute  with  ham,  mushrooms  and  white  sc. 
Haight — (crustacean)     with    green    peppers,    oyster- 
crabs   and  mushrooms. 

Hambourgeoise — (goose)  stuffed  with  prunes  and 
apples. 

Hambourgeoise — (fish)  poached  with  fond,  celery- 
knobs,    turnips,    parsley,    white    wine    sauce. 

Hamilton — baked  in   cream    (lobster,    etc.) 

Hampton — (crustacean)  with  green  peppers  and 
brown   sauce. 

Harbischer — (fowl)  in  cocotte  with  artichokes  and 
mushrooms. 


Garnishes 138 Huitres 

—  de    Haricots   vert;    for   meats,    of    string   beans. 
Harleq.uinne — (fish)    with    red    and    green    peppers, 

au  gratin. 

Harlequinne — (omelette)  with  red  and  green  pep- 
pers,   cream    sauce. 

Havanaise — (chops)    stuffed   with    sweet   peppers, 

Havemeyor — (crustacean)  with  mushrooms,  green 
peppers    and    white    sauce. 

Havraise — clams    with    white    vine    sauce. 

Hellbrook — (lobster,  etc.)  in  chafing  dish  with  pep- 
pers,   saute,    cream    sauce. 

Hellbrook — (eggs)  scrambled  with  peppers  and 
crab-meat. 

Helena — (fish)  filets  with  force,  rolled  up,  poach- 
ed on  tartlets  with  nuddels  in  cream,  sauce 
Mornay    and    browned. 

Heloise — (fish)  saute  in  butter,  tomatoes,  fond  and 
mushrooms. 

Henrietta — (fish)    w^itli   white   wine    sauce. 

Henry-quatre — (Entrees)  with  potatoes,  artichokes 
and    Bearnaise    sauce. 

Henry-quatre — (fowl)  in  casserol  with  mushrooms 
and    artichokes. 

Highlands — (fish)    with    clams    and    sauce    Mornay. 

Highlands — (soft   clams)    with    sc.   Mornay,    gratine. 

Hochepot — ox-joints    in    casserol. 

Eollandaise — (fish)  poached  court-bouillon,  melted 
butter,    potatoes. 

HoUandaise — (fish)  poached,  sauce  Hollandaise, 
potatoes. 

Hollande — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  potatoes, 
parsley,    butter    sauce. 

Hellbrook — (clams,    etc.)    with   red  peppers. 

Homestead — (ham)     with    potatoes    and    cabbage. 

—  a   la   Hongroise;    for  meats,    of   cauli-flowers   with 

sweet  peppers,    cream   sauce  with  paprika. 

—  a    la    Hongroise ;    for    fish    with    blanched    onions 

in    butter,    paprika,    mushrooms,    gratine. 
Hongroise — (fowl)    with    cream    sauce    and   paprika. 
Horly — (fish)    fried    with    tomato    sauce. 
Eortense — (eggs)    stuffed,    rice,    foie-gras,    white   sc. 

—  a  la  Hoteliere ;   for  broiled  fish,  with  herb  butter 

sauce. 
Hoteliere — (chops,  supreme)  in  papillote  with  herbs. 
Huitres — poached     with     butter     and     oyster-juice, 
sauce   Normande   with   oysters.  * 


Garnishes 133 Isabella 

—  d'Huitres;    for   fish,    of   oysters,    mostly   iu   white 

wine. 

—  d'huitres  a  la  geloe;   of  oysters  in  jelly. 
Hussarde — (fish)    stuffed,    onion    puree,    poached    in 

wine,   butter. 
Hussarde — (Entrees)    with    stuffed    tomatoes,    onions 

iu    horseraddish,    gratine. 
Hussarde — (clams)    baked   with    horseraddish    sauce 
Humboldt — (Entrees)    with  tomatoes  and  green  pep 

pers. 
Hyeroise — (fish)     stuffed,     poached    in    white    wine, 

mushrooms. 

K 
King — (mince)    cream    sauce,    green    peppers,    toma 

toes,    mushrooms. 
Kee.ie — -(sweet     breads)     minced     with     mushrooms 

Bonrnaise    with    tomatoes. 
Kadgeree — (fish)    saute  with  rice,   eggs   and  butter 
Key-West— with    green    turtle,     (for    stew). 
Impcratrice — -(fish)    stuffed,   poached  in  white  wine 

truti'es,    lobster,    clams. 
Imperatrice — (sweet    breads)    with    peas    and    quen 

elles. 
Impeiiale — (fish)     poached,     cream     sauce,     truffles 

roes    and    shrimps. 

—  a    la    Grandmere;    for    fowl    in    casserole,    mush 

rooms,    lardons,    round   rissole    potatoes,    gravy 

—  a    rimperiale;     with    fowl,     truffles,     mushrooms, 

goose  livers,   combs,  quenelles. 

—  a  la  Imperios ;   for  fish ;   brown   sauce  and  mush 

rooms. 

Indienne — (fish   and   fowl)    with   curried  rice. 

Indienne — (fish)  poached  with  butter,  curry  and 
rice. 

Indienne — (eggs)    shirred  vnth  rice    and   curry. 

Industan — (lobster)  with  rice,  tomatoes  and  pap- 
rika. 

Infante — (fish)  poached,  sauce  Mornay,  imree  of 
mushrooms. 

Infante — (stew)     with    artichokes. 

Intarlaken — (fish)  boiled  with  butter  and  boiled 
potatoes. 

Iris — (canapee). 

Irving — (broiled  lobster)  with  rice  and  brown  but- 
ter. 

Isabella — (poached  eggs)  with  sweet  peppers  a  la 
Creole. 


Garnishes 140 Japonnaise 

IsaTiella — (sweet    breads)    with    artichokes,    peppers 

and    mushrooms. 
Isabella — (cold   dishes)    with  Lima  beans,    vegetable 

salad   and    peppers. 
Italienne — (fish)     poached    with    Italian    sauce    and 

herbs. 
Italienne — (fish    minced)     with    mushrooms,     brown 

sauce    au    gratin. 

—  a    ritalienne;     small     loaves     of     different     vege- 

tables,   croquette    of    macaroni. 

Ivanhoe — (omelette)  with  tomatoes,  cepes  and  pars- 
ley. 

Yvette — (Entrees)    with    potatoes    and    truffle    sauce. 

Yvette — (potatoes)  in  julienne,  artichokes  and 
truffles. 

—  a  rivoire;  bordure  puree  of  potatoes  with  cream, 

fish,     stock    with    cream;     combs,  and    kidneys 
when   meat. 

Ivoire — (fowl)  with  mushrooms,  cream  sauce  and 
cauliflower. 

J 

Jackson — (fish)  poached,  onion  sauce  with  herbs 
and   crusts. 

Jacoutot — (steaks)  mushrooms,  marrow  and  souffle 
potatoes. 

Jacquard — (Entrees)  fowl,  in  casserol,  souffle  po- 
tatoes  and  brown   sauce. 

Jacquard — (vol-au-vent)  with  cream  sauce,  sweet 
breads    and    quenelles. 

Jacquelin — (crustacean)  stuffed  with  lobster,  white 
wine    and   gratine. 

—  a    la    Jalady;     for    fish,     broiled,     salmon    sauce, 

quenelles. 
Janin — (fish)    stuffed  with  herbs,   poached  in  white 

wine,    Madeira,    tomatoes. 
Janin — (fish)    poached  in   Rhine   wine,    stuffed   with 

duxelle    and   truffles,    mussels. 

—  a  la  Jardiniere;    of  vegetables. 

—  a     la     Jean     Bart;     poached,     herbs,     mushroms, 

stock,    gratinee. 

—  a    la    Saint    Jean;    with    ravigotte    or    bearnaise 

and    herbs. 
Japonnaise — (sweet        breads)         with        artichokes, 

crosnes    and    brown    sauce. 
Japonnaise — (Entries)      tartlets     with     crosnes     in 

veloute,    potato    croquettes. 
Japonnaise — (fowl    Japanese)    with    curry    and    rice. 


Garnishes 141 Lacliarmft 

Jeanne  d'Arc — (fish)  saute  in  oil,  tartlets  with 
rice,    crayfish,    oysters,    quenelles. 

Jeanette— (fish)  filets  stuiTed  with  taragon,  poach- 
ed,   cream    sauce,    foie   gras. 

Jeanette — (eggs)  cold  with  cltaud-froid  sauce,  jelly 
and  taragon. 

Jeanette — (eggs,  hot)  poached  with  goose  livers, 
crab   flakes,   peppers,    Bearnaise. 

Jeanette — (oyster  crabs)  under  glass  bell,  mush- 
rooms,   peppers,    cream    sauce. 

Jenny  Lind — (poached  eggs)  on  crust  with  cauli- 
flower   and   Bearnaise. 

Jim  Parker — (Entrees)  with  artichokes,  potatoes- 
and   Bearnaise. 

Jockey — (Entrees)  stuffed  potatoes  with  raviolis, 
horseraddish. 

Johnny — (mussels)  with  mushrooms,  shallot,  greea 
peppers,    paprika,   white   sauce. 

Johnson — mince,  green  peppers,  brown  sauce,  mush- 
rooms. 

—  a  la  Joinville ;   truffles  in  white  wine,   crab  meat, 

german   sauce. 

Josefine — (fish)  with  oyster  crabs,  mushrooms, 
lobster,   white   sauce. 

Josefine — (sweet  breads)  under  glass  bell  with 
asparagus   tips. 

Jouffroy — poached  in  white  wine,  browned,  aspara- 
gus  tips,   truffles. 

Judic — (Entrees)  lettuce  stuffed  with  ham,  ham  in 
dices,   truffles,  half  glaze. 

Judic — (fowl)  sa\ite  Marengo  Avith  peas,  ham,  let- 
tuce  and   quenelles. 

Juive — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine  and  oil,  ar- 
row-root. 

Juive — (carp) slices  saute  in  oil,  onions  and  shal- 
lots;   serve    cold,    anchovies. 

Juive — (trout)  au  bleu,  with  julienne  of  vegetables 
and    mushrooms,    and   taragon. 

—  a   la   Jules   Janih ;    for   fish,    stuffed   with   duxelle 

and     mushrooms,     gratinee,     poached     in     fish 
stock   with   butter. 
Jules     Boche — saute     with     mushrooms,     toast     and 

parsley. 
Labunskaya — (fish)    poached    in    white    wine,    truf- 
fles  and   shrimps. 
Lacharme — (fish)     poached     in     white     wine     with, 
mussels. 


Garnishes 142 Livournaise 

Lacomte — (fish)    with  mussels   and  brown    sauce. 
Lackme — (poached    eggs)    on    toast    with    brown    sc. 
Lafayette — (eggs)    with    slice    of    chicken    and    liam, 

maj^onnaise,    jelly,    cold. 
Lafond — (eggs)     cold,     crab-flakes,     red    and    green 

peppers,   mayonnaise. 
Lafontaine — (omelette)    with    truffles,    tomatoes    and 

cheese. 
Lagnlpierre — (fish)    poached,    shrimp   sauce,    tartlets 

with    shrimps    in    Bordelaise. 
Laguipierre — (eggs)    cold,    on    crust   with    jelly    and 

mayonnaise. 

—  de    Laitance;    for   fish,    of    carp   roes. 
• —  de   Laitue   braise ;    of  braised   lettuce. 

—  de  Laitue  farcie ;   of  stuffed  lettuce. 

—  de    Laitue    a    la    Fermiere ;     cut-up,    stewed    with 

sausage  and  bacon  in  gravy. 
Lamo2itagne — (filets)    with    Bearnaise    and   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Languedocienne;    of   cepes,    saute   in   butter, 

fried  egg-plant  dices,   potatoes. 

—  a     la     Laperouse ;     for    fish,     poached,     genevoise 

sauce,     quenelles,     coral,     mushroms     and    craw 

fish. 
Lavaliere — (ragout)    with  onions   and  peas. 
L.     C.    H. —  (omelette)     with    crab-flakes    and    green 

peppers. 
- — a  la  Lebonnard;   for  fish,  poached  in  white  wine, 

paprika,    cream,    mussels. 
Lecouvreur — (Entrees)    with  chestnuts  and  portwine 

sauce,     (fowl). 
Leda — (chops)    with    fowl-moss    and   white    sauce. 

—  de    Legumes;"  for    salads,    of    vegetables    salad. 
Leopold — (fishX-  half   shrimp   and  half   truffle    sauce, 

poached,    white    wine. 
De   Lesseps — with   calf's  brains. 
. —  a    la    Lhezat ;    for    fish,    poached    in    white    wine, 

bechamel    sauce,    taragon   butter. 
Liegeoise — (shrimps)     boiled    in    white    wine,    pars- 

_  ley,   herbs  and  butter. 
Liegeoise — (chops)    with    red    cabbages. 
Lillian — (eggs)     baked    in    tomatoes  "with    foie-gras. 
Lillian    Eussel — (cantaloupe    or    other    fruit)     with 

vanilla  ice   cream., 
Livingstone — with      cream,      quenelles     and      sorrel, 

crab-flakes). 
Livournaise — (fish)     with    tomatoes,    garlic,    onions, 

breaded,    gratine. 


Garnishes  143  Luxembourgooise 

—  a  la  Livonienne;  for  fish,  poached  in  white  wine, 

fish  stock,  roots  and  butter. 
Loi-Fuller— poached,    white   wine,    shrimp   and  Veni- 

tienne    sauces. 
Loomis — (fried     fhicken)     with     mushrooms,     white 

sauce     and     corn    fritters. 
- — -a     la     Lombarde;     for     pork     with     lentil    puree, 

piquante    sauce    and    duchesse    potatoes. 
Londonderry — (fish)     stuffed    with     crayfish,    white 
wine   sauce   with   anchovies,    oysters. 

—  a     la     Lorraine ;     red    cabbages    braised    in    red 

wine,    potatoes,    horse-raddish. 

Lorenzo — (canapee)     crab-meat    on    toast    with    let- 
tuce,   cream,    gratine. 

Lord    Seymore — stuffed    with    sweet    peppers,    mush- 
rooms  and  devilled  sauce. 

Lorette — (Entrees)     with     fowl-croquettes,     aspara- 
g-i:s    tips,    truffles. 

Lorgnette — (fish)    skewers   with   fried   filets,    toma- 
to   sauce. 

Lorrilard — -(pweet  breads)    with    trufSes,    olives;    un- 
der glass-bell. 

Louis    Quiuze — (fish)    poached,    white    wine,    trufSes 
and   lobster. 

Louisiane — (fowl)    with    corn    croquettes,    sweet    po- 
tatoes saute. 

Loiiisette — (fish)    saute  with  tomatoes,   mussels  and 
Bearnaise. 

Louisette — (eggs)     cold     with     lettuce,     mayonnaise 
and    tomatoes. 

Louisette — (fowl-livers)      on     skewer     with     brown 
sauce. 

Lubat — (Entrees)    with    sliced   ham    and    spinach. 

Lucifer — (clams)     devilled. 

Lucullus — (duck)    stuffed   with   olives. 

Lucullus — (Entrees)       with       foie-gras,       quenelles, 
combs,    kidneys,    mushrooms,    truffles,    supreme   sc. 

—  a   la   Luculle;    truffles   in  wine,   ragout   of  chicken 
livers,   pickled   tongue. 

Lucy — with  onions,   potatoes  and  brown  sauce. 

Lully — (Entrees)  with  crusts,  artichokes  and  .brown 
sauce. 

Lune — (eggs)       scrambled      with      mushrooms      on 
brioche. 

Luxembourgeoise — (chops)      with      vegetables      and 
brown  sauce. 


"Garnishes 144 Maison  d'Or 

Lyonnaise — (fish.)  poached  with  butter,  onions  and 
herbs. 

—  a   la  Lyonnaise;   for  meats  of  chestnuts,   sausage 

slices,    onions,    artichokes,    madeire. 
Lyonnaise — (potatoes)    with    onions,    saute. 
Lyonnaise — (fowl)    stuffed  in  casserol,  potatoes  and 
brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Macedoine;   of  vegetables. 

MacCalla — roasted   with    beans,    sauce    Colbert. 

MacCullough — (game)  with  apples,  devilled  white 
sauce. 

MacMahon — (fish)  with  truffles,  lobster  and  lob- 
ster   sauce. 

—  a  la  Maconnaise ;  for  fish,  poached  in  white  wine 

and   red  wine,    mussels. 
Mackey — (fowl)    in    casserol   with    rice,    truffles    and 

foie-gras. 
MacLay — the   same. 
Madeleine — (Entrees)    tartlets   with   puree   of   white 

beans,    artichokes    with    onions. 
Madeleine — (steaks)   with  puree  of  lentils,   sausages 

and  beans. 
Madison — (eggs)    soft    in    cocotte   with    truffles    and 

cream    sauce. 
Madrilene — (soups)    with   tomatoes. 
Magadont — (lobster)   broiled,  stuffed  with  butter  sc. 
Magenta — (shrimps)    poached  with   oil,   white   wine, 

tomatoes    and  parsley. 
Magny — (Entrees)    with   white   sauce    and  foie-gras. 

—  a  la  Magnie ;  for  fish,   cooked  in  butter,   au  plat, 

nature. 

Magellyan — cream    of    chicken. 

Maharaya — (lobster   flakes)    with   rice   and   curry. 

Maillot — (ham)  with  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  let- 
tuce,   peas,    beans. 

Maintenon — (Entrees)  with  mushrooms  saute,  Be- 
chamel  and    Soubise. 

Maisonnier — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  car- 
rots   and    celery. 

Maire — (lobster)    saute   in   shell,    brown   sauce. 

Maire — (Entrees)    with    peas,    onions    and    potatoes. 

Maison  d'Or — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine  with 
herbs. 

—  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel;   saute  or  broiled  with  herb 

butter. 
Maison    d'Or — (chops)    broiled    with    truffles,    goose 
liver   and   brown    sauce. 


Garnishes 145 Marie  Rose 

Manchester — (fish)    poached,    white   wine    and   shal 

lots. 
Mancelle — (Entrees)       saute,      artichokes,      spinach, 

Macedoine. 
Mancelle — (fish)    in  butter,   sauce   Marengo,    capers, 

mushrooms. 
Manon — (fish)    filets    stuffed,    poached,    white   wine, 

mushrooms,    asparagus   tips. 

—  a  la  Mantoue ;  for  fish,  boneless,  poacheH,  baked, 

white  sauce,  onions. 
Maralchere — (Entrees)    potatoes  pont-neuf,   cabbage 

carrots,    oyster-plant. 
Marcellin — (fish)    with   white   wine   sauce   and   truf 

lies. 

—  a  la  Marchand  de  vin;  for  fish,  poached  in  white 

or    red    wine,     shallots    and    butter. 
Marchant — with    potatoes,    peppers    and    cepes. 

—  a   la   Marcelle;    for  fish,   poached  in  white  wine, 

cream  sauce  with  oyster  puree. 

—  a  la  Marechale;   for  meats,   truffles,   combs,   quen- 

elles, veloute  sauce. 

—  a    la    Marechale ;    for    fish,    sauce    madeire    with 

Espa£cnol,   mushrooms,   herbs. 

—  a    la     Marengo ;     garnish    of    mushrooms,     olives, 

minced  tomatoes,   brown   tomato   sauce. 

—  a  la   Marguery;   poached  in  white  wine,   mussels, 

shrimps. 

Marguerite — (lobster)    baked   in    shell. 

Marguerite — (chops)  breaded,  mushrooms,  toma- 
toes,   vermicelli. 

Margot — (sweet  breads)  with  mushrooms,  white 
sauce,    potatoes    and    baked. 

Margot — (Entrees)  with  white  sauce,  capres,  spin- 
ach and  mushrooms. 

Marianne — (fowl)    with  sauce  supreme. 

Maryland — (broiled  shad)  with  broiled  tomatoes 
and   sweet  potatoes. 

Maryland — (crab-flakes)     with    white    cream    sauce. 

Maryland — (fowl)  fried,  cream  sauce,  bacon,  corn 
fritters. 

Marie  Louise — (Entrees)  with  artichokes  with 
mushroom  puree,  onions. 

Marie  Louise — (filets)  with  tartlets,  filled  with 
carrots,    turnips   and   pens 

Marie    Stuard — with   asparagus,   barley  and  herbs. ^ 

Marie  Rose — (eggs)  with  Bearnaise,  tomatoes,  foie- 
gras,    au    gratin. 


Garnishes 146 Medina 

Marigny — (Entrees)  crusts  filled  with  green  beans 
and    potatoes    fondantes. 

—  a    la    Mariniere ;    for    fish,    of    mussels,    cray    fish 

tails,    fish   balls,    white    sauce,    herbs. 

Marlesienne — (eggs)  with  cauliflower,  white  sauce 
and   baked. 

Marlesienne — (Entrees)  with  artichokes  and  brown 
sauce* 

Marmontel — saute  with  butter,  onions,  cream,  truf- 
fles,   German   sauce. 

— -de  Jlarrons;  for  meats,  of  chestnuts,  boiled  in 
stock,    glazed. 

Marquise — (chops)  stuffed  with  potatoes,  tomatoes, 
mushrooms,    brown   sauce. 

"Marquise — (Entrees)  tartlets  with  truffles,  aspara- 
gus tips  and  marrow,  potato   croquettes. 

Marquis  Zierotin — (eggs)  soft  boiled,  salpicon  with 
tomato    sauce. 

Marseillaise — (Entrees)  tomatoes  saute  with  but- 
ter   and    garlic,    potatoes    and    Prov.    sc. 

Mascarile — (eggs)  poached  with  tongue,  mushrooms 
and   red   peppers. 

Mascotte — (Entrees)  with  artichokes,  potatoes 
chateau   and    truffles. 

Massena — (Entrees)  crusts  with  carrots  in  cream, 
peas,     potato     croquettes,     Bearnaise. 

Martinelli — (fish)  with  white  wine  and  oyster- 
crabs. 

Martha — (lobster)  with  oyster  crabs,  truffles,  mush- 
rooms,   baked    in    shell. 

Martino — (fish)  with  white  wine  and  green  peppers. 

Marjolaine — (fowl  saute)  with  stuffed  olives  and 
white    sauce. 

—  a    la    Matelote ;    for   fish,    in    red    wine,    mussels, 

mushrooms,   truffles,   onions. 

—  Matelote     a    la     Pecheur;     of     sweet    water    fish, 

with  cray   fishtails  and  matelotte. 

—  a    la    Mathilde;     for    fish,    poached    with    shrimp 

sauce,    white  wine,    onion   puree. 
Matignon — (mince)      with      carrots,      onions,      ham, 

mushrooms   and  brown   sauce. 
Mauban — (Entrees)   with  tomatoes,  ham  and  tongue. 
Medicis — (fish)    breaded,    fried,    Medicis   sauce. 
Medicis — (Entrees)    crusts    with    carrots    in    cream, 

potato    croquettes,    sorrel. 
Medina — (fowl)    with   carrots,   peppers   and  paprika. 


GavnisTies 147 Mirabeau 

Mainherr — (eggs)  sliced  with  tomatoes,  red  pep- 
pers,   au   gratin. 

Mellicourt — (Entrees)  with  peppers,  mushrooma 
and    brown    sauce. 

Meluiinoise — (eel)  marinaded,  rolled  up,  baked  with 
butter,    sauce    Robert. 

Menagere — (fish)  poached,  white  wine,  mushrooms, 
gratine. 

M6iiagere — (eel)    broiled,   with   Maitre   butter. 

Mencssier — saute  with  butter,  artichokes,  potatoes, 
gra  tine. 

—  a   la   Mentonnaise;    small  pumpkins,    stuffed  with 

rice,    ham    and   herbs,    potatoes,    artichokes. 

—  a  l\   Islericjart:   t'or  hash,  in  bordure  aiKl  gratine. 

slice   of  fried  calfs  brains,    tomato   sauce. 

—  a   la    Melba ;    for   fish,    stuffed  with   oyster   crabs, 

broiled,    oyster    crab    sauce. 
Meriraac — (fish)    saute    meuniere. 
Metternich — (Entrees)    with    stewed    chestnuts    and 

red    cabbages. 
Metropolitan— (Entrees)       with       mushrooms       and 

fried    ariichokes. 
Metro — (lamb)    with  carrots,  string  beans,  peas  and 

brown   sauce. 

—  a   la    Meuniere;    with   brown   butter   and   parsley, 

saute  in  butter. 

—  a  la  Mexicaine;  for  fish,  boneless,  breaded,  broil- 

ed,   tartare   sauce. 
Mexicaine — (Entrees)     with     tomatoes,     onions     and 

red   peppers. 
Mephisto — (chops)     devilled    in    papillote. 
Micado — with    curry  and  rice. 
Migaon — (fish)    poached   in   white   wine,    sauce   Por- 

tugaise. 
Migncu — (Entrees)      with      artichokes      and      peas, 

quenelles   and   truffles. 

—  a    la    Milaniiise ;    mncironis    with    nutmeg,    cheese, 

tongue,    tomato    puree    and   truffles. 
Miles — (crab    meat)    au    gratin. 
Mills — (sweet    breads)     with    sweet    peppers,    green. 

peppers,    mushrooms    and     cream    sauce. 
Minerve — (fish)   poached  with  onions,   tomatoes  and 

shallots,    anchovies,    potatoes. 
Mirabeau — (fish)     filets     poached     in     white     wine, 

truffles,    tnragon,    anchovies. 
Mlrabeaa — (Entries)    with  olives,   chives   and  tara- 

gou,  anchovie  butter. 


Garnishes 148 Mont» 

Mireille — (Entrees)    tartlets    with    rice    and    saffron, 

potato    croquette    with    tomatoes. 
Mirette — (Entrees)    with    potato    Mirette. 

—  a   la  Mirnaidon;    of  stuffed  patties  with  cheese. 
Mirroire — (eggs)    with    cream    au    gratin. 

—  a    la    Miss    Paulette;    for    fish,    baked    tomatoes, 

vermicelli. 

Mithridate — (scrod)  poached  with  Bechamel  and 
garlic,    gratine. 

Mode  de  Hollande — (fish)  with  potatoes,  cucum- 
bers and  white  sauce. 

Moderne — (lobster)  with  tomatoes,  shallots  and 
taragon. 

—  a    la    Moderne ;    small    vegetable    moulds,    braised 

lettuce,    potatoes   noisette. 

—  a  la  Moelle  de  boeuf;  of  beef  marrow. 
Mogador— (fish)    filets    stuffed    with    shrimp    force, 

breaded,  broiled,    shrimp  sauce. 

—  a  la  Moina ;    for  fish,    saute  and  split,  port  wine, 

Spanish    sauce,    artichokes,    mousseline. 
Moisonneuse — (Entrees)     with     peas,     potatoes     and 

bacon. 
Moliere — (Entrees)    with   celery  braised,    artichokes, 

brown    sauce. 
Monacco — (fish)    saute  with  mushrooms  and  onions. 
Monacco — (Entrees)     with    potatoes,     tomatoes     and 

goose    livers. 
Monacco — (fowl)    in    casserol    with    mushrooms    and 

truffles. 
Moncey — (fish)    poached  with   white   wine,    mussels 

and   tomatoes. 
Mondaine — (lobster)    saute,    cream  sauce   and  yolks. 
Monselet — with   truffles   and  mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Montalban;    for    fish,    saute    with    artichoke- 

puree,   white   wine   and   Spanish   sauce. 
Montalard — (crab    flakes)     with    mushrooms,     green 

peppers    and    white    sauce. 
Montargis — (fish)    broiled  with  Maitre   d'Hotel   and 

lemon. 
Montbriand — with   truffles,   vegetable   Macedoine   and 

white    sauce. 

—  a  la  Montgelas ;   julienne  of  goose  liver,  madeire, 

trufBes,    pheasant,    brown    sauce. 

—  a    la    Montgolfier;     for    fish,    white    wine    sauce, 

mushrooms,   pistachios. 
Monte — (steaks)    split   and   saute. 


Garnishes 149 MulforA 

—  a    la    Montebello;    for    fish,    mushroms    and    fish 

quenelle,    white    wine ;    see    pike. 

—  a    la    Montebello;     bearnaise    and    tomato     sauce 

with    truffles. 

Monte  Carlo — (fish)  poached,  white  wine  with  oy- 
sters   and    truffles. 

Monte  Cristo — (eggs)  cold,  poached  in  jelly  with 
vegetable    salad. 

Montford — (Entrees)  with  stuffed  artichokes,  cepes 
and   brown   sauce. 

Montelland — (chops)  with  mushrooms,  peppers  and 
tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Monterouge;    for  fish,    stewed  in  butter  and 

wine,   cream  sauce,  port  wine,  mushroom  puree. 
Montespan — (fish)   poached,   white  wine  with  herbs. 
Montmartre — (fish)    broiled    with    mushroms,    toma- 
toes,   gratine. 

—  a  la   Montmorency;    for  fish;    poached,    shrimr)   se. 
Montmorrency — (fowl)     with    artichokes    and    Mace- 

doine  of  vegetable,   Madeira. 
Montpensier — (Entrees)     with    asparagus    tips    and 
truffles. 

—  a     la     Montreuil ;     for    fish,     in    potato    bordure, 

poached  in  white  wine,   gratinee. 
Montvillier — with    sauce    supreme,    carrots    and    tur- 
nips. 
Morgan — (eggs)    poached    on    crust   with    cream    so. 
Morilla — with    onions. 

—  de  Morrilles ;  of  morrels. 

Morley — (Entrees)     with    stuffed    artichokes. 
Morlaisienne — with    cream    and    artichokes. 
Mornay — (mussels)    baked    in    cream    sauce. 

—  a  la  Mornay;   for  fishes,  poached  in  cream  sauce, 

gratinee. 
Morton — (mince)    with    Sherry  wine   in    silver  pans. 
Mostyn — (roes)    saute   with   white    sauce   and   green 
peppers. 

—  de  Monies;  of  mussels. 

Moulin    rouge — (fricassee)     with    cream    sauce    and 

mushrooms. 
Mountain    oysters — lamb    fries. 
Mousseline — (fish)    fish-force   with    cream,    moulded, 

poached    fish    filets,    Mousseline    sauce. 
Moutarde — (herring)       grilled,      white      wine      with 

mustard. 
Muldoon — in    casserol    with    cream    sauce. 
Mulford — (oyster    crabs)     under    glass-bell. 


'Garnishes 150 New  Fort 

Murad — (fish)     filets    saute    with    butter,    shrimps, 

mushrooms    and   truffles. 
Murad — (Entrees)     with     artichokes     and     potatoes 

Parisienne. 
Murillo — (chops)    with    sweet   peppers,    onion   puree 

and    tomato    sauce. 
Musquetaire — (eggs)     with    kidneys    and    white    sc. 
Nadard — (eggs)      poached     with     red     peppers     and 

mushroom    sauce. 

—  a  la  Nage;  for  cray  fish,  boiled  in  court  bouillon 

with  carrots ;    served  in  tureen. 

Kantaise — (herring)  breaded,  broiled,  roes,  mus- 
tard   sauce. 

Nantaise — (Entrees)  with  cream  sauce,  macaroni 
and    mushrooms. 

—  a     la     Nantua;     for     fish;     poached,     red     wine, 

shrimps. 
"Napolitaine — (Entrees)      with     spaghetti,      tomatoes 

and    cheese. 
Napolitaine — (fowl)     same    with    cream. 
Navaiin^— (fish)   poached  in  champagne,  stuffed  with 

herbs,    lobster  butter. 
Navarin — (Entrees)    a   ragout  with  peas   and  brown 

saixce ;     (de   mouton). 
= —  de  Navets  glacee ;    of  glazed  turnips. 
Nelson — (fish)    poached,   sauce  Mornay,   gratine,  po- 
tato  bordure. 
Neraours — (fish)    filets   stuffed  and  poached,   shrimp 

sauce   with   truffles. 
Neptune — (fish)   with  mushrooms,   fried  oysters  and 

white   sauce. 
Nesle — (Entrees)    tongue,   truffles,  mushrooms,   sauce 

supreme. 

—  a    la     Nesle ;     for    fish,    poached    in    white    wine 

sauce,   bechamel  sauce,   quenelles. 
Nesselrode — (Entrees)        stuffed       artichokes       with 
brown   sauce. 

—  a   la    Newburg;    saute    in   madeire,    double    cream 

and  yolks. 

New  Yorkaise — (lobster)  with  green  peppers  and 
mushrooms. 

New  Yorkaise — (fowl)  with  bacon,  onions  and  po- 
tatoes. 

New   Port — (hash)    with   poached   egg. 

—  a    la    Nicoise;    for    meats,    stewed    artichokes    in 

butter,    olives,   tomatoes,   potatoes. 


Garnishes 151 Opera 

—  a    la    Nicoise;    for    fish,    broiled    fish    on    tomato 

ragoiit,   with  anchovie   butter. 
Nicoise — (eggs)    cold,    on    tomato-jelly. 
Nicoise — (soups)    with  minced   tomatoes. 
Nilson — (eg-gs)    on   toast  with  foie   gras. 
Ninou — (Entrees)    with   braised  lettuce   and  braised 
oranges. 

—  a   la   Nivernaise;    for  meats,    of  young   carrots  in 

stock  with   sugar. 
Noaille — (tomatoes)    peeled,   gratine  with  tomato   so. 
Nonato — (fish)     fried    like    whitebait. 
Norfolk — (clams)    with    celery    and   crab-force. 
— -a  la  Norfolk;   for  fish;   poached,  white  wine,  crab 

meat. 

—  a     la     Normande ;     for    f i^h,     quenelles,  _  oysters, 

mussels,    truffles,    normande   sauce,   white  wine. 
Norvegienae — (salmon)      on      spinach     with     white 

sauce,    gratine. 
Norvegienne — (cucumbers)     stuffed    with    crab-fiakes 

and    red   pei)pers. 

—  a  la  Norvegienne ;   for  fish,  cut-up,  boiled,  butter 

sauce,    boiled   potatoes. 

—  de  Noques  au  beurre ;  for  soups,  of  butter,  dump- 

lings. 

—  de  Noques  frits ;   of  fried  dumplings. 

—  de   Nouilles;    for  meats,    of  noodles. 

Nubienne — (chops)    breaded,   fried,   truffles,  Madeira. 
Nymphes  ballerines — (frog's  legs)   poached  in  white 

wine,    chaud-froid,    cold    jelly. 
Odalisque — with   egg-plants,   sweet  breads,   peas   and 

Italian    sauce. 

—  d'Ognons;   for  meats,   of  onions. 

—  d'Olive  farcie;    of  stuffed  olives. 

—  d' Oranges;   for  meats  of  oranges. 

—  d'Oseilles;    of    spinach. 

Offemont — (fish)      poached,     white     wine,     morrela, 

shallots   and  truffles. 
Offenbach — (chops)      with     artichokes,     mushrooms, 

truffles  and   sweet  breads. 
Old  Homestead — (ham)   with  cabbages,  potatoes  and 

brown    sauce. 
Olga — (fish)     poached,    Bercy,    julienne    of    truffles. 
Olympic — (omelette)      with      white      sauce,      oyster 

crabs,    lobster   and   green  peppers. 
Opera — (fish)    poached,   white   wine   with   asparagus 

and   truffles. 


'Garnishes 152 Parisienne 

Opera — (Entrees)  tartlets  with  fowl-livers,  croquet- 
tes  with   asparagus   tips. 

Opera — (chops)    with    asparagus    and    goose    livers. 

Opera — (eggs)  shirred  with  kidneys,  mushrooms 
and    Madeira. 

Orleans — (fish)  filets  rolled,  poached  in  white  wine 
on   croquettes  with   salpicon. 

Orientale — (fish)  poached  with  fond,  oil  and  lemon, 
arrow-root. 

Orientale — (Entrees)  tartlets  with  rice  and  peppers, 
saute    tomatoes,    sweet    potatoes,    croquettes. 

Orientale — (fowl)  stuffed  with  red  and  green  pep- 
pers, mushrooms,   spaghetti. 

' — a  rOrientale;  stuffed  tomatoes,  rice  pilaff,  sweet 
peppers,   okra. 

^rleannaise — (Entrees)  with  braised  chicoree  and 
potatoes. 

Orly — (fish)    filets    breaded    and    fried,    tomato    sc. 

Osborne — (fowl)  in  casserol  with  tomatoes  and 
mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Ostende ;  white  wine  sauce,  oysters,  truffles 
and  fried  white  bait,  for  fish. 

' —  de  pailles  au  fromage ;   of  cheese  straws. 

' —  en  Papillotte ;  baked  on  ham  and  duxelle  in 
paper  wrapper. 

Otero — (fish)  filets  rolled,  poached  on  baked  pota- 
toes,   shrimps,   white  wine,    gratine. 

Otero — (chops)  with  tomatoes,  artichokes  and  po- 
tatoes. 

Otero — (sweet  breads)  in  casserolet  with  white 
sauce    and  mushrooms. 

Oudinot — (eggs)    white    sauce,    gratine. 

Palace — (fowl)  with  rice  a  la  Creole,  white  sauce 
and  curry. 

Palace — (eggs)    stuffed  in  potatoes. 

Paganini — (eggs)  poached,  cold,  tomatoes  and  ma- 
yonnaise. 

Papillote — (fish)   poached,  duxelle,  in  paper,  baked. 

Papillote — (chops)  in  paper,  stuffed,  slice  of  ham, 
baked. 

Paniatowsky — saute   with  butter.    Sherry,    cream   sc. 

Parisienne — (fish)  poached,  three  sauces,  shrimps, 
white  wine    and   anchovies. 

Parisienne — (Entrees)  with  Paris  potatoes,  tongue, 
truffles,    mushrooms,    artichokes. 

Parisienne — (game)  with  bacon,  mushrooms,  onions 
and  brown  sauce. 


Garnishes 153 Fhillipino 

Parisienne — (lobster)     cold,    slices    on    shell,    Mace- 
doine    salad,    jelly,    mayonnaise. 

—  a    la    Parisienne ;    of   madeira    sauce,    truffles   and 

mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Parisienne ;   little  round  potatoes,   artichokes 

stuffed. 
Parme — (chops)    sauce    Bechamel,    grating. 
Parmentier — (filets)     with    potatoes    in    dices,    but* 

ter,   herbs,   parsley. 
Parmentier — (chops)    etc.    with    mashed   potatoes. 
Patty — (lobster)    with  mushrooms  and  white   sc. 
Patty — (chops)     saute    with    kidneys    and    potatoes. 

—  a    la    Patty;    rice    with    chicken   force    in   border, 

truffles,  glazed. 
Paquerette — (eggs)    cold,   in  jelly  with  salad. 
Pascaline — (tongue)    piquante  with  white  sauce  and 

croquettes. 
Pascaline — (eggs)    shirred   with   lamb    fries. 
Paulus — (eggs)    scrambled  with   toast,    peppers   and 

tomatoes. 
Paul   Jones — (eggs)    cold  with   artichokes. 
Paysanne — (fowl)    saute    with    mushrooms,    parsley^ 

sauce   veloute. 

—  a  la  Paysanne ;    onions,   carots,   turnips,   cabbages,. 

lettuce,  leeks. 

—  a  la  Paysanne;  for  meats,  carrots,  stuffed  cucum« 

bers,   broiled  sausages. 
Pecheur — (fish)    poached,    red    wine,    onions,    mush- 
rooms,   anchovy    sauce. 

—  de    Pelerines;    for   meats,    breaded    and   browned, 

cockles;    Kammusheln. 

—  de   Peluche ;    for   soups   of   green   herbs, 

—  a    la    Perigord;    for    meats,    truffles,    garnish    in 

madeire. 
Perigourdine — (capon)    braised   with   chestnuts. 
Peruvienne — (stew)    with  Lima   beans   and   peppers. 
Petit     Due — (fish)      filets     stuffed     with     shrimps, 

poached    with    tomatoes,    sauce    Normande. 
Petit    Due — (Entrees)    with   peas    and    brown    sauce. 

—  de  Petits  fromage  a  la  Suisse;   small  cheese  tarts. 
Petit  Jean — (Entrees)   with  cepes,  peppers  and  arti- 
chokes. 

—  de  Petits  pois;   of   green  peas. 
Perrier — (plover)    on   toast  with   cepes. 
Phillipino — (steak)     saute    with    brown    sauce    and 

onions. 


Crarnislies  154  Pomary 

Picarde — (fish)  poached  in  v/hite  wine  with 
shrimps,    mussels    and    mushrooms. 

—  de   Pieds   d'Agneau;    of   sheeps   trotters, 

—  de  Pieds   de  Pore;    of  pork  feet. 

—  de   Pieds   de  Veau ;    of  veal  knuckles. 

• — a    la    Piemontaise;    sauce    chasseur    and    rissotto. 
Piemontaise — (fish)    poached  in  white  wine,   stuffed 

with   white    truffles. 
Picarde — (fish)   filets,   saute  in  butter  on  rice  pilaw 

with   red  pepper   and   curry,    egg-plants. 
~^  de  Piments  Doux;   of  sweet  red  peppers. 
Pisane — (anchovies)    with  stuffing,   poached  in  white 

wine     and     mushrooms     on     spinach     with     toma- 
toes,   breaded,    gratine. 
Plaza — (fish)     with    white    wine,    potatoes,    lobster 

on    crusts. 
Plaza — (eggs)     on    toast    with    shrimps    and    cream 

sauce,    gratine. 
Plombino — (fish)    with  white  wine   and  onions. 
Pocharde — (fish)     filets     poached     in     white     wine, 

white   and  red  wine   sauce. 
- — de  pointes  d'Asperges;  of  asparagus  tips. 
Pointe     du    Jour — (fish)     with     onions,     mushrooms 

and    bacon. 
Pojarsky — (chops)    hashed   with    horseraddish    sc. 
Polignac — (fish)      poached,      white      wine,      onions, 

mushrooms,    truffles,    gratine,   herbs. 
Polonaise — (carp)    poached  in  red  wine,   onions   and 

shallots,    almonds,    raisins,    prunes. 
Polonaise — (chops)    stuffed  with  salpicon,   truffle  sc. 
Polonaise — (vegetables)     with     yolks,     crumbs     and 

black    butter. 
Polonaise — (chops)       sometimes     hashed     up      with 

white  sauce. 

—  a    la    Polonaise ;     for    fish,     stuffed,    poached    in 

white    wine,    butter    with    yolks    and    crumbs, 
brown. 

—  a   la   Polonaise ;    for   meats,    with   noodles,   brown 

butter    with    crumbs    and    yolks. 

—  de    Polenta ;    for    meats,    of    cups    of    corn    meal 

mush. 

Pollack — (vol-au-vent)  with  sweet  breads,  mush- 
rooms  and  brown   sauce. 

Pollack — (sweet  breads)  with  ham,  peppers  and 
mushrooms. 

Pomary — with  mushrooms,  artichokes,  brown  sauce 
and    crosnes. 


Garnishes 155 Profiterollea. 

Pompadour — (oel)     poached,     onion-puree,     villeroy> 

breaded   and    fried,    Cheron    sauce. 
Pompadour — i, oysters)     poached    with    oyster    juice, 

Ilollandaise    and   truft'es. 
Pompadour — (fish)     saute    with    lobster    butter    and 

truli'.'es. 

—  a  la  Portiere;  saute,  brown  butter  with  herbs  and 

mustard. 

—  a  la  Pondicherry;   for  fish,  poached,   white  wine, 

curry    and    tomatoes. 

—  de   Pommes   de   Terre;   of  potatoes;    see  potatoes. 
Poppee — saute  with  vermicelli,   potatoes,   butter  and 

parsley. 
Portland — (eggs)     shirred     with     crab-meat,     green 

peppers,    cream    sauce. 
Porter — (terrapin)    with    Portwine    sauce. 
Porthos — (steak)    with  red  wine  sauce,  marrow  and 

sweet   potatoes. 
Porto — (fish)    baked   with    Portwine    sauce. 
Porto    Eico — (fish)    with    vegetables.  * 

—  a  la  Porte  Bonneheure;    for  fish;   poached,   white 

wine,    stuffed,    horse    shoe    shaped. 

—  a   la   Portugaise ;    stuffed   tomatoes,    potatoes   cha* 

teau.      For    fish;    poached    with    stewed    toma- 
toes,   wine,    gratine.    ^ 
Potchaque — (fish)    saute  with  bacon. 

—  a  la  Poulette ;   saute,  white  sc,  mushrooms,  herbs. 
Prince    do    Gslles — (fish)     poached    in    champagne, 

curry,    shrimp    butter,    oysters,    mussels. 

Prince  of  Wales — (sweet  breads)  with  green  pep- 
pers,   mushrooms,    truffles,    livers. 

PrincG  of  Wales — (eggs)  cold,  with  tomatoes,  celery 
and   mayonnaise. 

Prince  Kenry — (pike)  stuffed  with  salmon  force, 
poached    in   Rhine   wine,    truffles. 

Princesse — (fish)  poached,  Mornay,  asparagus  tips, 
trufflies,    baked. 

Princesse — (Entrees)  with  asparagus  tips,  truffles, 
veloute    sauce    and   mushrooms. 

Princesse — (sweet  breads)  with  truffles,  mush- 
rooms,    ham,     sauce    supreme. 

Printanniere — (fish)  poached,  Bechamel  sauce  with 
vegetables. 

Printanniere — (Entrees)  with  carrots,  turnips,  as.- 
paraeiis   tips    and   peas. 

—  de  Profiterolles ;    of  stuffed   cream  cakes. 


Garnishes 156 Ravioles 

- —  a  la  Providence ;  for  meats  with  ragout  of  truf- 
fles, mushrooms,  goose  livers,  quenelles  and 
olives.  (b)  Sausage  giblets,  slices  of  pickled 
beef,  mushrooms,  truffles,  combs,  kidneys, 
capres,   in  red  wine,   lemon-juice,   brown  sauce. 

Provencale — (fish)  stuffed,  stewed  in  white  wine, 
tomatoes,    saffron,    oil   and  garlic. 

■ —  a  la  Provencale ;  stuffed  tomatoes,  stuffed  egg- 
plants,   green  beans,    new  potatoes. 

—  a  la  Printanniere ;  for  soups  of  spring  vegetables. 
^ — de  Puree   d'Ail;    of  garlic  puree. 

—  de  Puree  Bretonne ;   of  brown  puree  of  onions. 

—  de  Puree  a  la  Conti ;  of  lentil  puree. 

' — de  Puree  de  Flageolette;  of  puree  of  green  seed 
beans. 

—  de    Puree    de    Tobinambourg ;    of    Jerusalem    arti- 

choke   puree. 
Quadrille — (a    cocktail)     soft    clams,    mussels,    crab- 
flakes    and    oyster    crabs. 
»  = —  de    Quenelles ;    for   meats    of   baked    and   poached 
little    dumplings. 
Quilleboise — (fish)    white   wine,    mushrooms,    chives, 

sauce   Fleurette. 
Quimpere — with     cream    and    artichokes    on    crusts. 
Quirinale — (fish)     poached    with    white    wine,    Bor- 
delaise    sauce,    shrimps    and    mushrooms. 

—  de   Macedoine   de   Legumes;    of  assorted  veget. 

• — a  la  Rabelais;  for  fish,  poached,  anchovy  but- 
ter,   coral. 

—  a    la    Rachel;    for    fish,    poached,    shrimp    sauce, 

truffles,    mushrooms. 

Rachel — (Entrees)  artichokes  Vith  marrow  and 
parsley,     sauce    Bordelaise. 

'~-  a  la  Radzivil ;  sweet  breads,  livers,  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, quenelles,  genevoise  sauce. 

Raisins — (carpe)  sliced  in  oil,  onions,  shallots, 
white    wine,    raisins. 

Rambutteau — (fowl)  with  mushrooms,  onions,  car- 
rots,   white    sauce. 

Ramis   Soyer — (Entrees)   with  patties  and  celery  sc. 

Ranhofer — (eggs)  with  artichokes,  chestnuts  and 
Bordelaise    sauce. 

Ravigote — (fish)  poached  in  court  bouillon,  sauce 
Ravigote. 

—  de   Ravioles ;    for   soups,    little    turnovers,    stuffed 

noodle  paste. 


Gavnishes  157  Biche 

—  a   la  Redskin;    for  fish,    stuffed,   I'olled-up,  poach- 

ed  white   wine,    truffles. 

—  a  la  Regence;    for  meats,   sweet  breads,  knockles, 

truffles,  mushrooms.  For  fish:  cray  fishes 
white  wine  sauce  and  roes,  quenelles  and  truf- 
fles. For  fowl:  goose  livers,  quenelles,  fowl 
kidneys,    coml)s.    truffles. 

—  a    la    Reine ;    combs,    mushrooms,    kidneys,    sweet 

breads,    white    sauce. 

Keforme — (Entrees)  with  truffle  julienne,  tongue 
;ind    fowl. 

Refotme — (chops)  with  brown  sauce,  pickles,  mush- 
rooms   and   artichokes. 

Reine — (fish)  poached,  veloute  sauce,  truffles  and 
quenelles. 

Reine — (other  garnishes)  mostly  with  chicken 
puree. 

Reiss — (potatoes)     saute    in    dices. 

Rejane — (fish)  poached  in  oil  and  butter  with 
cresses,    oysters,    truffles,    mushrooms. 

Rejane — (chops)  with  Bearnaise,  tomatoes  and  red 
peppers. 

Rejane — (canapees)  with  artichokes  and  egg-dress- 
ing. 

Religieuse — (fish)  poached  sauce  Hollandaise,  tara- 
gon,    eggs   and  truffles. 

Renaissance — (fish)  poached,  herbs  and  shallots, 
fond,    artichokes,    shrimps,    baked.  , 

Renaissance — (Entrees)  with  artichokes  and  vege- 
tables,   cauliflower  and  Hollandaise. 

—  a   la  Reveloise;    for  fish,   poached  in  wine  sauce. 
Reyniere — alternate     layers     of     poached    fish    with 

salpicon    of    shrimps.    Bechamel,    cheese,    gratine. 

Reyniere — (Entrees)  saute  with  chicoree  with  veal- 
jus,    and    cream. 

Rhodesia — (fish)  filets  stuffed,  rolled,  poached, 
white    wine,    sauce    Amei-icaine. 

Ricaro — (tripe)    stewed   in    cocotte. 

Richard — (fow^l)    in    cocotte   with    cepes. 

Richard — (hash)  with  green  peppers  and  poached 
eggs. 

—  a    la    Riche;    for    fish,    poached    in    shrimp    sauce 

with    truffles. 

—  a    la    Richelieu;    stuffed    tomatoes,    stuffed    mush- 

rooms,   braised  lettuce,    potatoes. 
Riche — (I^ntrees)      artichokes     with     peas,      Cheron 
sauce    with    truffles. 


Garnishes HjS  Eomaine 

Riche — (eggs)    cold,   in  glas,    with  mayonnaise,   jelly 

and   foie   gi'as. 
Riche — (fowl)      in     casserol     with     artichokes     and 

mushrooms. 
Rtchemo:it — (Entrees)     with     artichokes,     mushroom 

and   sauce  Provence. 
IlicheiK.o:it — (lobster)     with     Madeira,     crusts     with 

shrimps,    mushrooms,    tomato    sauce. 
Richelieu— (fish)     hreaded,     fried    in    butter,    Bear- 

naise   and   tomato    sauce. 
Richelieu — (cold    squab)     in    jelly    with    corn    and 

artichokes. 
Richelieu — (Entrees)    with    braised    lettuce    and    to- 
matoes. 

—  a    la    Rigoise;    for    filets    of    fish;    stuffed,    rolled- 

up,    fried,    gourmet   sauce. 

Rigolo — fowl  saute,  with  chestnuts,  sausages,  mush- 
rooms   and    brown    sauce. 

Rigoletto — (omelette)  with  marrow,  truffles  and 
tomato    sauce. 

—  de  Ris  de  Veau;   of  calf's   sweet  breads. 
, —  de   Risotto ;    with   saffron  rice. 

—  de  Ris  a  la  Caroline ;    of  rice  moulds. 
— -de   Riz   a   I'lndienne;    of   curried  rice. 

—  de  Ri7-   a   la  Milanaise;,  of  rice  with  tomato   and 

saffron. 

—  de  Riz  a  la  Persane ;   of  rice  with  lemon-juice. 

—  de  Riz  a   la   Turqtie;    of  rice  with  lamb  gravy. 

—  de  Riz  a  la  Valencienne ;  of  rice  with  ham,  stock, 

sausages,    artichoke    bottoms. 

Robert — (porK)    saute,    sauce   piquante. 

• —  a    la   Robinson ;    chicken   livers   with   madelre. 

Rocheambeau — (eggs)  on  toast  with  tongue,  chicken 
and    Bearnaise. 

Rochellaise — (fish)  poached  in  red  wine  fond  and 
butter,    Espagnol,    roes,    oysters. 

Rochellaise — (omelette)  with  mushroom,  truffles  and 
brown    sauce. 

Rochefoucauld — with   cream   of   chicken   on  crusts. 

Rohan — (Entrees)  with  artichokes,  foie  gras  and 
trufiles,    tartlets    with    combs. 

Rockaway — (omelette)  with  oysters  and  green  pep- 
pers. 

Rockaway — (03-ster    crabs)    in    coquilles. 

Romaine — (eel)  poached  in  white  wine  and  butter, 
stewed  with  peas  and  lettuce. 


Garnishes  159  Eougemont 

Komaine — (Entrees)  tartlets  with  dumplings 
cheese,  Bechamel,  gratine,  spinach  with  ancho- 
vies,   fowl    puree,    sauce    Romaine. 

Komaine — (eggs)  cold,  with  mayonnaise  and  tara- 
gon. 

—  a   la  Romaine;    loaves  of   spinach  with  anchovies, 

potato  Anna. 

Romanow — (fish)  poached,  Mousseline,  with  fen- 
nel,   shrimps    and   quenelles. 

Romanow — (fruits)  mixed  I'ith  Curacao  and  cus- 
tar    sugar. 

—  a    la    Romanoff;    stuffed   and   gratinee    cucumbers, 

crusts  with   celery  and  mushrooms. 

Rosa — (chops)  with  brown  sauce,  red  and  green 
peppers. 

Rosa  Bonneheur — (chops)  with  stuffed  artichokes 
and   Bearnaise. 

Rosalia — (fish)  filets  sautd  in  oil,  onion,  garlic, 
shallots,    mushrooms,    parsley. 

Rosalia — (fruits)  mixed  with  whipped  cream, 
Curacao   and   vanilla   ice. 

Rose — (Entrees)  with  carrots,  green  and  red  pep- 
pers. 

—  a    la    Rose    Caron;    for    fish,    half    shrimp    sauce, 

half    pistachio    sauce,    poached    white    wine. 

Rosine — (fish)  poached,  white  wine  with  tomatoes, 
stuffed    tomatoes. 

Rossini — (Entrees)  crusts  fried  with  foie  gras  and 
truffles,    truffiC    sauce. 

Roqnelaure — (eggs)  with  chicken  croquette  and 
Creole. 

Rothschild — (salmon)  stuffed,  stewed  with  cham- 
pagne,   truffles,    mushrooms,    oysters. 

Rothschild — (Entrees)  with  truffles,  goose  livers 
and  brown   sauce. 

Rothschild — (ham)   with   spinach  and  champagne   sc. 

Rouennaise — (fish)  poached  in  red  wine  with  shal- 
^  lots,    oysters,    lobster,    mushrooms. 

Rouennaise — (lobster)    in   cream    sauce,    chives. 

Rouennaise — (tripe)  with  onions,  mushrooms, 
brown   sauce. 

—  a  la  Rouennaise ;   of  turnips. 

Rougemont — (fish)  poached  with  fond,  Aurora 
sauce,    shrimps   and  truffles,    mushrooms. 

Rougemont — (lobster)  saute  with  rice,  mushrooms 
and   tomatoes. 


Garnishes [ 160 Sandford 

—  a  la  Royale ;    for  fish,   poached  in  madeire,   with 

truffles,    cream    sauce   with    stock. 
Koyal — (Entrees)      like     Financiere. 
Kusse — (herring)    cold,    smoked,    on  vegetahle    salad. 
Russe — (cold   dishes)    with   vegetables,    herbs,    ham, 

tongue,    truffles,    mayonnaise. 
Russe — (eggs)    hard  boiled,   stuffed,   truffles,   lobster. 
Russe — (cold  Hors  d'Hoeuvres)    with  caviar, 

—  a    la    Russe;    for    fi#h,    poached    in    stock,    roots 

and  butter. 
Safran — (fish)    saute   in   oil   with   fond   and   saffron. 
Saint  Addresse— (fish)    saute  meuniere  with  chives. 
Saint    Agile — (fowl)    boned    braised,    truffles,    mush- 
rooms,   shrimp   sauce. 
Saint       Germain — (Entrees)        cream,       mushrooms, 

chives,    foie    gras. 
Saint   Germain — (sweet  breads)    with  puree  of  peas 

and  brown   sauce. 
Saint   Gaudens — (Entrees)    with   asparagus   tips   and 

olives. 
Saint    Honorat — (anchovies)    breaded,    fried,    stewed 

tomatoes,    Bearnaise. 
Saint    Laurent — (supreme)    carrots,    chicoree,    sauce 

supreme. 
Saint  Laurentin — with  fresh   mushrooms  and  brown 

sauce. 
Saint    Martin — with    chicken    livers    and    brown    sc. 
Saint    Menehould — (eel,     carp)     poached     in     Avhite 

wine    and    fond,    breaded,    broiled    with    chopped 

mushrooms,   hashe   sauce. 
Salamandre — (crustacean)    with  white   wine,   glazed, 

(gratine). 
Salvatore — (chops)       with       mushrooms,       piquante 

sauce  and  crusts. 
Salvatore — (fowl)   in  casserol  with  green  vegetables. 
Salvini — (Entrees)    with  Bechamel,    mushrooms,   foie 

gras,    au   gratin. 
Sam    Ward — (hash)    with    brown    sauce,    mushrooms 

and    onions. 
Sampson — (fish)    baked    with   brown    sauce. 
Sampson — (eggs)   on  toast  with  peppers  &  curry  sc. 

—  a    la    Samaritaine ;    cray   fishtails,    oysters,    mush- 

rooms,   stuffed  olives. 

—  de    Saucisses ;    of   sausages. 

Sancho — (sweet  breads)    in   casserolet  with  peppers 

and    brown    sauce. 
Sandford — (eggs)     shirred,     Espagnol. 


Garnishes 161 Sevigne 

Sandford — (clams)    with   white    sauce   and   chives. 
Sans     Genes — (Enti'ees)     with    potatoes,     artichokes 

and  brown   sauce. 
Santelly— (Entrees)    with  chicoree  and  brown  sauce. 

—  a    la    Sarah;    for    fish,    poached,    truffles,    carrots 

and   celery;    sauce  venitienne. 

—  a    la    Sarasine ;    with    small    oatmeal    cakes,    rice 

pilaff   with   tomatoes,   peppers,    onions. 
Saratoga — (fowl)    boneless    with    ham,    devilled. 
Saratoga    Club    House — (omelette)    with    crab-flakes 
and    green    peppers. 

—  a    la    Sarde ;    rice    croquettes,    mushrooms,    green 

beans,    tomato    sauce. 

—  de  Salsifis  Noir;   of  oyster  plant. 

—  a   la   Sauterne;    poached   in  white   wine   for   fish. 
Savoyarde — (Entrees)    with    potatoes,    leeks,    cheese 

and  salpicon. 

Savoyarde — (fowl)  in  casserol  with  stuffed  mush- 
rooms,   brown    sauce    and    celery. 

Savoyarde— (omelette)    with    potatoes    &    artichokes. 

Savoyarde — (livers)  with  f  resit  mushrooms  and 
Bordelaise  sauce. 

—  a   la    Savoysienne;   with   cheese  patties. 
Seabright — (fish)    broiled   whole   with   bacon. 
Segur — (cutlet)    hashed  with  mushrooms   and  brown 

sauce. 

—  a     la     Semillante;     fish     balls,     roes,     fried    eggs, 

Cray   fish   and   mushrooms. 

—  a    la     Saint    Avertin;     for    fish,    baked,    mustard 

sauce,  potato   croquette. 

—  a  la  foaint  Fiorentin;  for  soups  with  cheese  paste 

knockles. 

—  a    la    Saint    Lambert;    of    assorted    vegetables. 

—  a    la    Saint    Laurent;    puree    of    mushrooms    and 

thick   gravv. 

—  a    la    Saint    Malo ;    of    oysters,    mussels,    shrimps. 

—  a    la    Saint    Nazaire ;    of    white    wine,    fish    stock, 

german    sauce,    stuffed    clams. 

—  au    Soleil ;    for    fish,    rolled-up,    breaded,    broiled, 

tomato  sauce. 

—  a    la     Saint    Germain ;     for    fish,    breaded,    fried, 

bearnaise    sauce. 
Sembric — (Entrees)      with      mushrooms,      artichokes 

and   truffle   sauce. 
Senorita — (fish)     poached     in     cream,     sauce,     wliite 

wine,    peppers    and    mushrooms. 
Sevigne — with    peas    and    fine    herbs.. 


Garnishes 162 Starr 

Seville — with    tomatoes    and    sweet    peppers. 
Seymore — with    sweet   peppers,    mush.    &   pepper   sc. 
Seven  hour — cold,   vegetables,   jelly. 
Seward — (fish)    with    oyster-crabs,    mushrooms    and 

white    wine    sauce. 
S.  C.  H. —  (omelette)   with  clams  and  green  peppers. 
Shrewsbury — clams   with   white   wine,    baked. 
Sherman — stuffed   with   peas   and  ham. 
Siamese — (fowl)    stuffed  with   rice    and  white   sc. 
Sibilow — (eggs)   poached,  truffles,   tomatoes  &  herbs. 

—  a    la    Sicilienne ;    for   fish,    baked   with   tomatoes, 

anchovies,    capres. 
Sicilienne — (Entrees)     lasagnes    mixed    with    puree 

of    foie    gras    and    cheese. 
Signora — (lamb)    with    white    sauce    and    truffles. 
Simian — (fowl)    with    sweet  breads,    bacon   and  rice. 

—  en     Soleille ;     for    fish,     circle     shaped,     breaded, 

broiled,   herb   butter. 
Solognote — (fish)     marinaded,     poached    with    fond, 

in  paste,   papillo%,   baked. 
Sorciere — stuffed  with  goose   liver. 
Sorciere — (sweet    breads)     with     fresh    mushrooms, 

artichokes    and   peppers. 
Sothern — (brochette)    devilled  with   brown   sauce. 
Soubeyran — crusts   with  onion  puree   and   truffles. 

—  a  la   Soubise ;    of  onion  puree, 

Souveraine — broiled  with  goose  liver  and  puree  of 
beef. 

Sport — (fowl)    with   artichokes   and   cepes. 

Suffren — (fish)  with  anchovies,  poached  in  fond, 
tomato    puree,    butter,    baked. 

Supreme — (fish)  stuffed  with  truffles,  poached,  to- 
mato   sauce. 

Sultane — (fish)  filets  stuffed,  rolled,  poached,  white 
wine.    Bechamel,    red   peppers. 

Sultane — (Entrees)  saute  with  stuffed  green  pep- 
pers,   egg-plant,    cream    sauce    and    tomatoes. 

Surcout — (fish)  lobster  slices,  fried  mussels,  lob- 
ster   sauce. 

Surprise — (chops)    stuffed  with  truffles. 

Surprise — (fowl)  stuffed  with  bread  stuffing  and 
truffle    sauce. 

Stamford — with  clams,  mushrooms  &  green  peppers. 

—  a   la   Stanley;    baked  bananas,   Russian   sauce    (of 

horse   raddish). 
Starr — (fish)     meuniere    with    clams    and    potatoes. 
Starr — (other   things)    with  tongue. 


Garnishes ♦   163 Tavern 

Stchy — (soups   and   stews)    with   vegetables   &   rice. 

St.  Cloud — (fish)  poached,  white  wine,  fried  mus- 
sels,   tomato    sauce. 

St.  Dennis — (eggs)    minced  with   cepes  &  brown  sc. 

St.  Florentin — (Entrees)  with  Duchesse  potatoes, 
breaded,    rolled    in    vermicelli,    Bordelaise. 

St.  Germain — (Entrees)  crusts  of  potatoes  with 
peas,    carrots,    Bearnaise. 

St.    Hubert — (game)     with    mushrooms    and    onions. 

St.   Jean — (fish)    poached,   Bearnaise,   herbs. 

St.  Mande — (Entrees)  with  baked  potatoes,  stuffed 
with    tips    and   peas. 

St.  Martin — (Entrees)  saute  with  mushrooms,  Ma- 
deira. 

St.  Salvadore — (fish)  poached,  white  wine  sauce 
with   onions   and   herbs. 

Strasbourgeoise — (goose)  stuffed  with  apples  and 
prunes. 

Strasbourgeoise — (Entrees)  cabbages  braised  in 
wine,   bacon,   foie  gras. 

—  a  la  Suedoise;  as  for  smelts,  boiled  with  spark- 
ling  butter. 

Suisesse — (eggs)    shirred,    cheese   au  gratin. 

Sullivan — (fish)  filets  minced,  stuffed,  poached, 
Mornay,    gratine,    tips. 

— •  a  la  Sylvette;  for  fish,  stewed  in  roots,  sherry, 
stock,  truffles,  mushrooms,  cream  sauce,  stuff- 
ed   tomatoes,    gratinee. 

Suzette — (Entrees)  artichoke  bottoms  with  puree 
of   mushrooms,    tartlets   with    carrots   in    cream. 

Suzette — (eggs)  poached  in  baked  potatoes,  ham, 
cream  gratin. 

Taballion — (fish)  poached,  white  wine  with  truf- 
fles. 

Talleyrand — (Entrees)  macaroni  with  foie  gras, 
truffles,   cheese,   truffle   sauce. 

Talleyrand — (mince)  with  mushrooms,  Bordelaise 
and  cream. 

Talma — (chops)  with  mushrooms,  chicken  puree  and 
white   sauce. 

— ■  a  la  Tartare ;  for  fish,  cut-up  in  red  wine,  herbs, 
breaded,    fried,    tartare    sauce. 

Tartare — (steak)    hashed    up,    raw    egg,    spices. 

— ■  de    Tartelettes ;    with    tartlets    of    ragout. 

Tavern — (chops)  broiled  with  brown  sauce  and  po- 
tatoes. 


trarnishes 164 Trouvillaise 

Theodora — (fish)    filets   poached,    four   sauces,    Nan- 

tua,  white  wine,  veloute,  truffles  and  Venitienne. 
Thermidore — (lobster)  baked  in  shell  with  cream  sc. 
Tivoli — (Entrees)      combs,     kidneys,     sweet     breads, 

asparagus    tips,    Ivoire    sauce. 
Toast — (herring,    kipper)    smoked   herring    in    filets, 

broiled  on  butter  toast. 
Toerangelle — (Entrees)    with  peas   and  flageolets   in 

Bechamel. 
Tolstcy — (fish)   filets  breaded,  fried,  potatoes,  white 

wiiie    sauce. 
5fdDE::i"^ouctou — breaded,   stuffed  egg-plant  &  cream  sc. 
—  a   la    Tortue ;    with   turtle    garnish,    brown    sauce, 

olives,    quenelles. 
Toscane — (eggs)    on    crust   with   tomato    sauce. 
Toulonnaise — (fish)      stuffed,     poached     with     fond, 

mussels,   mussel   sauce. 
Toulousaine — (grenadins)       with      mushrooms      and 

cream    sauce. 

—  a   la   Toulouse;    goose  liver,    sweet  breads,   brown 

sauce,     truffles,     combs,     tongue,     kidneys,     Ger- 
man   sauce. 

—  a  la   Toulousaine;   for  meats,    goose  livers,   white 

wine,    truffles,    mushrooms,    combs,    truffle    sc. 

Tout  Paris — (fish)  poached,  two  sauces,  white  wine 
and   shrimp. 

Traviata — (fish)  poached,  shrimp  sauce,  stuffed  to- 
matoes. 

Trebicande — (Entrees)  with  artichokes,  mushrooms 
and    brown    sauce. 

Trevise — (Entrees)  crusts  with  artichokes,  mush- 
rooms  and  brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Trianon ;  puree  of  turnips,  carrots  and  peas. 
■Trianon — (Entrees)   puree  of  carrots,  puree  of  peas, 

puree  of  potatoes. 

Trianon — (fish)  broiled,  Bearnaise,  truffles  and  po- 
tatoes. 

Triumvire — (Entrees)  with  truffles,  souffle  potatoes 
and  Bearnaise. 

Trois  Freres — (fish)  poached,  two  sauces,  white 
Avine  and  white  truffle  sauce,  tomato  sauce  and 
potatoes    Duchesse. 

Trophy — (eggs)    cooked    in    tomatoes    with    peas. 

Trophy — (Entrees)    with    cream    and    tomatoes. 

'Trouvillaise — (fish)  stuffed  with  herbs,  poached  in 
white   wine,    red  quenelles,   fried  oysters. 


Garnishes 165 Valentino 

—  a  la  Trouvillaise;   for  fish  with  shrimps,  mussels, 

white  wine,   shrirnp  sauce. 

Tunisienne — (vegetables)  stuffed  peppers,  with  ham, 
shallots,    crumbs,    baked. 

Turenne — (veal)    hash   with   brown   sauce, 

• — a   la   Turinoise;    of  noodle   thimbles. 

Tuiinoise — (omelette)  with  chicken  livers,  mush- 
rooms  and   brown   sauce. 

Turinoise — (fowl)    with  rice   and  tomato   sauce. 

Turnbiill — (sweet  breads)    on   crusts  with  brown  sc. 

Turciue — (fish)  saute  in  oil,  onions  and  herbs, 
rice    pilaw. 

Turque — (egg:s)    Avith  goose  livers  and  half  glaze. 

Tuscsny — (fried  chicken)  with  macaroni,  cheese 
and    tomato    sauce. 

Twomlly — (crabs)    fried   in    batter. 

Tyrolienne — (fish)  saute  in  butter,  tomatoes,  on- 
ions   and    parsley. 

Tyiolienne — (fish,  cold)  poached,  mayonnaise  with 
tomatoes. 

Tyroiienne — (Entrees)  fried  onions,  tomatoes  and 
sauce    Tyroiienne. 

Tyroiienne — (venison)  with  apples,  crusts,  currant- 
jplly. 

Tyroiienne — (pork)    with    apples    and    brown    sauce. 

Tyvollier — (eggs)    fried  with  ham  and  brown  sauce. 

—  a    la   Tsarine;    for   fish,    with   cucumber   bordure, 

sauce  Mornay  with  cream,  paprika,  straw  po- 
tatoes,   herbs,    mushrooms. 

Uncle    Sam — (eggs)    cold  in   crust   with  mayonnaise. 

University — (ham)  with  tomatoes,  devilled  sauce, 
baked. 

University — (crust)    stuffed  au  gratin. 

University — (sole)    fried   with   Tartare    sauce. 

University — (sausage)    baked    with    potatoes. 

—  a  la  Upsala;   for  fish,  braised  with  fresh  fennel, 

white    sauce. 
Urbain     Dubois — (fish)      poached     in     white     wine, 

sauce   Aurore,   truffles,    gratine. 
U.    S. —  (crabs)    cold    with    tomato    sauce. 
Vail — -(livers)    saute  with  cream  sauce. 
Valencienne — (minced     lamb)     with     brown     sauce, 

stuffed    tomatoes    and    rice. 

—  a  la  Valencienne ;   with  rice  valencienne. 
Valentino — (fish)     filets     poached,     white     wine    on 

Duchesse    potatoes,    risoto    with    truffles,    Mornay, 
gratine. 


Garnishes 166 Villegnet 

Valeri — (fish)  poached  with  white  wine  sauce, 
shrimps  mushrooms,   haked. 

Valiere — (fowl)    in  casserol  with  peas. 

Valols — (fish)    poached  white   wine   with   Bearnaise^ 

Van  der  Berghe — (fish)  poached,  white  wine,  mush- 
rooms,    truffles,    tomato,    haked. 

Vanderbilt — (fish)  stuffed,  poached,  white  wine, 
mushrooms    and   sour   cream. 

—  a   la   Vanderhildt ;    with   green  peppers,   tomatoes 

and  shrimps. 
Varley — (eggs)    cream    sauce    and    mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Vatel ;  for  fish,  hreaded,  fried,   cream  sauce, 

corral,    or   poached    in   wine,    truffles    and  roes. 

Venitienne — (fish)  poached,  white  wine,  sauce 
Venitienne. 

Venitienne — (chops)    saute   with   cheese. 

Veregna — (Entrees)  with  stuffed  mushrooms,  mar- 
row,   hrown    sauce. 

Verdi — (fish)  poached  on  macaroni  with  cheese, 
truffles,   lobster,    sauce   Mornay,   baked. 

Vermont — (eggs)     with    ham. 

Vermont — (bacon)    slice   cooked  with  vegetables. 

Vernet — (fish)    poached,    sauce   Vernet. 

Verne — -(Entrees)  with  chestnuts,  sprouts  and  Pa- 
risian   potatoes. 

Veron — (fish)    breaded,    broiled,    sauce    Ravigotte. 

Veronique — (squab)    cold  in   jelly  with  grapes. 

Veronique — (hot)    in    casserol   with    grapes. 

Vertpre — (Entrees)  cresses,  straw  potatoes,  Maitre 
d' Hotel  butter. 

Vertpre — (two)  string  beans,  asparagus  tips,  peas, 
cresses. 

Victoria — (lobster)  poached  in  slices,  sauce  Victoria 
with   oysters,    truffles,    mushrooms. 

Victoria — (moss)    with   lobster    sauce. 

—  a    la    Victoria ;    for    fish,     shrimp    salpicon    with 

truffles,  white  wine  sauce. 
Victoria — (Entrees)    braised    with    brown    sauce. 
Victor    Hugo — with    truffles    and    horseraddish. 

—  a   la  Vierge ;   for  fish  with  cream  sauce,   chervil, 

taragon. 
Viennoise — with    artichokes,    truffles    and    white    sc. 
Vieville — (eggs)    poached    with    spinach    and    juice, 
Villageoise — (fowl)     in    casserol,     glazed    with    veg. 

—  a  la  Villaret;  poached  in  white  wine;  for  fish. 
Villegnet — (fish)     poached    white    wine,     capres    to- 
matoes, mushrooms,  brown  sauce. 


Garnishes 167 Westphalienno 

Villeroy — (fish)  poached,  Villeroi  garnish,  cooled, 
fried,    parsley. 

Virginia — (fish)  filets  poached,  rolled  up,  on  roast- 
ed potatoes,  salpicon  of  shrimps,  Mornay  and 
haked. 

Virginia— (supreme)    broiled   with    slice    of    ham. 

Virginia — with   ham. 

Virginie — (tripe)    with   white    sauce. 

Virginia — (lobster)    with   truffles    and   foie-gras. 

Virginie — (eggs)  with  green  peppers,  truffle  sauce 
and    ham. 

Virginie— (filets)    with  ham-moss   and  brown   sauce. 

Virginie — (sweet  breads)  with  ham,  mushrooms  and 
brown  sauce. 

Virginie — (crab   meat)    in   cream. 

Virginie — (fish)  broiled  with  tomatoes,  sweet  and 
green    peppers,    potatoes. 

Viroflay- — (Entrees)  artichokes  with  spinach.  Cha- 
teau potatoes. 

Vin  blanc — (fish)  poached  in  white  wine,  fond  and 
musln-ooms,    white    wine    sauce. 

Vincent — (eggs)    on  toast   and  brown  sauce. 

Vin  rouge — (fish)  poached  in  red  wine  with  mush- 
rooms,   veal-juicc. 

Voisin — (fish)  stuffed,  poached,  fine  herbs,  mush- 
rooms,    croquettes. 

Voisin — (eggs)   with  calf's  brains  and  black  butter. 

Wagner — (fish)  with  foie-gras,  cream  sauce,  gra- 
tine. 

Wagner — (Entrees)  with  mushrooms,  foie  gras  and 
cream    sauce. 

Wainwright — (fowl)  in  casserol  with  artichokes  and 
mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Walewka ;    for    fish,    poached,    stuffed    with 

lobster  puree,  sauce  Mornay  w.  cream  gratinee. 
Walker — ^fish)   meuniere  with  soft  clams. 
Washington — with  mushrooms,   green  peppers,  white 

sauce. 
Washington — (crabs)    with    mushrooms. 
Washington — (fowl)    with   corn   saute   a   la   Grecque. 
Welcome — (shirred     eggs)     with     white     sauce     and 

cheese. 
Wellington — (eggs)     poached    on    toast,     foie    gras, 

white    truffle    sauce. 
Wenberg — (crabs)     with    cream    sauce,    baked. 
Westphalienne — ham-moss    with    brown     sauce. 

—  a   la  Westphalienne,   with   nuddles   and  ham. 


Garnishes 168 Zingara 

White — (eggs)  in  cocote  with,  truffles,  chicken  liv- 
ers  and   brown   sauce. 

Whitney — (eggs)     scrambled    with    tomatoes. 

Whitney — (crab-flakes)  with  mushrooms,  green  pep- 
pers,   clams,    white    sauce. 

Whitney — (Entrees)    with    tomatoes. 

Wilson — (eggs)  scrambled  on  toast  with  goose  liv- 
ers and  tomatoes. 

Windsor — (fish)  poached  in  court  bouillon,  oyster 
sauce   and   roes. 

—  a   la   Windsor;    beans,    beets,    potatoes   in   butter. 

Wissahiken — (fish)    planked   with    stuffed    tomatoes. 

Whitebait — fried  with  fried  parsley,  lemon,  but- 
tered brown  bread. 

Yvette — (fish)  poached  white  wine,  with  herbs, 
stewed   tomatoes  and  fish   salpicon. 

Yvette — (Entrees)    with   brown   sauce   and  potatoes. 

Yvette — (fowl)  saute  with  potatoes  and  truffle- 
julienne. 

Zingara — (Entrees)  ham  julienne,  tongue,  truffles, 
mushrooms,    Espagnol,    taragon. 


Garbage ^    169 Ginger  snaps 

Garbage — the  bowels   of   an  animal   or  fish ;    refuse. 

Garfish — a  species  of  fish;   the  needle-fish. 

Garland — a   wreath   of  flowers ;    a   crown. 

Garlic — a   strong   scented  plant;    a   kind  of   onion. 

Gastric — belonging  to  the  stomach. 

Gastritis — inflamation    of    the    stomach. 

Gastronomy — the    science    of    good    eating. 

Gastrocele — hernia    in    the    stomach. 

Garciofini — miniature    artichokes,    (Italy),    preserved 

and    exported;    a    hors    d^oeuvre. 
Garum — with    gravy;    ancient    for    fish. 
Gaspache — a    Spanish    drink,    cold    soup    and   salad; 

made    of    tomato,    garlic,    oil,    vinegar. 
Gateaux — French  term  for  cakes. 
Gattianara — -a   Piemontese  wine. 
Gauffres  or  gauffrettes — ^waffles. 
Gazegenes — machine    to    prepare     aerated    water    at 

home. 
Gelatine — German,    Gallerte;    a   jelly    obtained    from 

animal  tissues. 
Gelit — extremely  cold;    frozen. 
Geneva — name  erronously  given  to  gin  and  hollands 

from   genievre   which   is   juniper. 
Genoa  or  Geneva — sauce   (a  la  Genevoise)  ;  red  wine 

sauce ;    used    for   fish   mostly. 
Gentian — the   dried   root   of   gentiana. 
Geranium — the  oil  of  this  plant  is  used  for  flavoring. 
Ghee — a  sort  of  butter  used  in  India. 
Gherkins — fr.,    cornichons;    ger.,   Pfeffergurken. 
Gibelotte — french  for  ragout  prepared  of  rabbits. 
Giblets — thin    meats,     feet,     pinions     and    heads     of 

birds  or  game  are  usually  understood. 
Gigot — French    for   leg-of-mutton. 
Gilang — fermented  liqueur;  made  from  rice. 
Gilkas — german  name  for  delicately  flavored  Kirsch- 

v.'iisser  and  Kiimmels. 
Gimblettes — tasty    french    buiscuits;     made    in    the 

form  of  rings. 
Gin — spirit,    made    of    Genievre;    juniper,    HoUunder. 
Ginger — french,  gingembre;   ger.,  Ingwer. 
Ginger  ale — a  lemonade,   made  with  ginger. 
Ginger    buiscuits — a    peppery    buiscuit;     made    for 

English    people. 
Ginger    snaps — the    same   as    ginger   buiscuits;    still 

more  peppery. 


Ginger  bread 170   ' Goose  pudding 

Ginger  bread — French,  pain  d'episses;  Ger.,  Pfeflfer- 

kuchen. 
Girasole    Artichoke — this    vegetable    is    far    better 

known    under    the    name    of    Jerusalem    artichoke. 
Gizzards — french   Gesiers;    ger.,   Magen;    the   second 

stomach  of  poultry;   for  sauces. 
Glace — French,   for  iced  and  glazed. 
Clair — white  of  egg,  used  for  glazing  pastry. 
Glaze — browned    sauces    reduced    to    catch    the    pan; 

are  used  to  glazen* 
Glucose — the   technical   term   for   grape   sugar. 
Gluten — a  peculiar  sticky  substance  found  in  grains 

of   wheat ;    nutritious. 
Gnochi — Italian  dumplings,  made  of  semolina. 
Godard — see    sauces   or   garnishes. 
Godiveau — a    veal    forcemeat. 
Goose — Fr.,    Oie;    Ger.,    Gans. 

—  Roast   goose;    usually  served  with   chestnut   stuff- 

ing and  apple  sauce. 
■ — Green  goose  or  gosling;   a  young  or  small  goose. 
Goose's   fat  liver — Fr.,  Foie-gras;    Germ.,  Ganseleber; 

are   mostly  made   at    Strassburg. 
Goose's    fat    livers — are    served    in    all    styles;     as 

baked,  fried  in  forcemeat,  jelly. 
• — Baked    goose    livers;    baked,    larded   with   truffles 

and  madeire. 
Goose  fat  liver  in  aspic — put  in  balls  with  truffles, 

covered  with   aspic. 

—  Foie-sras    a    la    PaiDale;    slices    spiced    in    truffles, 

chicken  broth  kidneys   and  white  wine. 

—  Foie-Tras    a    la    Rocher    de    Cancale;    spooned    in 

jelly. 

—  Foie-sras   a  la   St.   Cloud;    truffled  with  ragout  of 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Strassbourgeoise;    truffled    in    madeire. 

' —  Bressole    de    foie    gras ;    liver    slices,    crusted    in 

papers. 
• — Celestines   de   foie   gras;    crusted   slices   of   goose 

liver. 

—  Cotelette   de  foie   gras   a   la   Grimaldi ;   with  mac- 

caroons    and    fine    ragout. 

—  a  la  Kalergis;   jellied  with  truffles. 

—  a    la    Luculle ;    red    and    black    with    tongue    and 

truffles. 
Gooseberries — ^Fr.,    groseilles;    Ger.,    Stachelbeeren. 
Goose     pudding — Yorkshire     pudding;     served     with 
roasted  goose   and  made  of   soaked  bread. 


Gourami 171' Griskin 

Oourami — an   Indian   fish   of  enormous   size. 

Gourds — cucumbers,  melons,  pumpkins  and  vegeta- 
ble-marrows   are    gourds. 

Gourmands  and  gourmets — the  first  a  glutton,  the 
second  an   epicure. 

Graham   flour — flour   that  has  not  been  bolted. 

Grains  of  raradise — Malaguetta  pepper;  a  condi- 
ment. 

Grande    Champagne — finest    Cognac,     a    Brandy. 

Grand  vin — first-class  wines;  compare  vins  fin;  vins 
ordinaire. 

Granito — an  iced  drink  composed  of  fruit-juices 
with  syrup :    a  punch  or   sherbet. 

Grapes — Fr.,  raisins;  Ger.,  Weinbeeren. 

Grape  fruit — see  shaddock. 

Gratin — food,  baked  in  shallow  dishes  on  bread 
crumbs  or  cheese. 

Gratzer   beer — beer  of  wheat  malt;    German. 

Gravy — the  sediment  that  drains  from  cooking  meat. 

Gravy  soup — a  kind  of  consomme,  made  of  fried 
beef  and  fried  bones. 

Grayling — a  fish   allied   to   the   trout. 

Grease — a    contemptuous    expression   for   fat. 

Green  corn — see  Indian   corn;    Maiskolben. 

Green  crahs — Joe-rockers,   shore   crabs. 

Greengages — a   variety   of   plum;    Reine-Claude. 

Greening — a   coloring,    made   of   spinach-juice. 

Green  peas — see   peas. 

Greens — this   term   applies   to   all   kinds   of   cabages. 

Green  turtle — see  turtle. 

Grenades — shells  filled  with  combustibles ;  as  ap- 
plied to  cookery;  vanilla-flavored  fritters  of 
soaked   and   egged   bread   crumb. 

Grenadines — a   small   kind   of   fricandeaux. 

Gridle — an  iron  plate  or  pan,  used  for  cooking 
cakes. 

Griddle    cakes — see    cakes. 

Gridirons — irons  for  broiling  meat;  griller  to  grill; 
new   expression   for   broiling. 

Grigneline — a   piemontese   wine. 

Grillade — French  for  anything  grilled,  such  as 
grilled   ham. 

Grilling — the  most  ancient  way  of  cooking  foods, 
on    broilers. 

Grilse — a  young  salmon  after  its  first  return  from 
the  sea. 

Griskin — the    spine    of    a    pig. 


Groats 172 Hadiocks 

Groats — dried    grain    coarsely   broken    or    crushed. 
Grocery — this    term    signifies    all    kinds    of    coffee, 

sugars,    tea,    dried   fruit,    spices   and   other   things 

sold  by  grocers. 
Groc — rum,    mixed   with   water. 
Groseilles — Fr.,    for   gooseberries. 
Grouper — brown  snapper;   a  fish;  Mexico. 
Grouse — Lagopede,    Schneehuhn;    August    to    end    of 

January;    bread    sauce,    red    currant- jelly. 

—  Scotch  grouse;   coque  des  marais;   should  be  well 

roasted,    bones    sucked. 

Grouse  a  la  Eob-Eoy — roasted,  wrapped  in  fat 
bacon  and  sprigs  of  heather.  Roast  grouse 
should  be  served  with  bread  sauce  and  currant- 
jelly. 

• — a  la  Tete  d'Or;  breaded,  broiled,  on  chestnut 
puree. 

Gruel — a   sort   of   thin  porridge. 

Grunts — an    American    fish. 

Guarana — a  South  American  drink,  made  of  ground- 
ed seeds,   like  tea ;    very  strong. 

Guarapo — a   drink,    made   from   juice   of    sugar   cane. 

Guavas — West    Indies;     a    delicious,    mellowy    fruit. 

Guava  jelly — made  of  the  guava  fruit;  yellow-red 
in   color. 

Gudgeon — Fr.,  Gougon;  Germ.,  Griindling;  small 
river  fish  of  smelt   character. 

Guignolet— liqueur,  made  from  small  black  heart 
cherry. 

Guinea  fowl — Pintade,  Perlhuhn. 

• —  Broiled  guinea  fowl  should  be  served  with  maitre 
d' hotel,  butter  and  jelly. 

—  Roast  guinea  fowl;   served  with  red  currant  jelly. 
Guineapig    or    cavy — Cochon    d'Inde;    Meerschwein- 

chen. 
Guisado — a   Spanish  ragout. 

Gumbo — see    Okras-umbo,    Consomme  with   Okns. 
Gums — mostly    arabic-gums,    boiled   with    sugar    and 

water;   used  for  marzipan. 
Gum-paste — pastillage;  used  for  confection  sculptor- 

ing. 
Gurnets   or  gurnards — Rougets;    Seehahn. 

Hache — French  for  chopped  into  small  pieces,  hash. 
Haddicks — French,   Aigrefin;    Germ.,    Schellfisch;    al- 
lied   to    the    cod. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;    boiled,    butter   sauce,   potatoes. 


Haddocks 173 Hart  shorn 

•7- a  la  Parisienne;   poached,  white  sauce,   cray  fish- 
tails,   fish   quenelles,    livers. 

—  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel;    broiled  with  maitre  butter^ 

—  In  ci-eam;  served  in  chafing  dish  with  dry  toast; 
cut-up ;    ter.    plate. 

Finnan  Haddie — smoked;  served  boiled  with  butter 
sauce  or  cut-up  in  cream. 

Haggis — Scotch  pudding;  made  of  chopped  up> 
cheeps,    fry   and   other   parts. 

Hake — fish,    superior   to   haddock  and  plaise. 

Half  fish — a  salmon  half  grown. 

Half   glaze — see   glaze. 

Halibut — Fletan;  Heilbutte;  hali-but;  holy  floun- 
der;   an    enormous    turbo  t. 

Hams — Jambon ;    Schinken. 

Ham  braise  a  la  Berchoux — with  chicken  force- 
meat and  veal  sweet  bread. 

—  a  la  Donna  Maria;  with  rice  and  crayfish  sauce. 
• —  a  la  Fitz-James ;  with  puree  of  ptirtridge  and  rice. 
• — a   la  Martignac;    glazed  with  truffle   sauce. 

• — Glace    a    la   Porte    Maillot;    glazed   with   assorted 
vegetables. 

—  Ham  a  la  Chantilly;  rolled-up,  stuffed  with  horse- 

raddish    and   whipped    cream    and    apple    sauce. 
• —  Westphalian  ham ;    smoked  ham. 
- —  Virginia    ham ;    first    smoked    and    then    boiled. 
Hamburg  steak — see  beef. 
Hardbake — sweet   meat   of   boiled  molasses,    almonds 

and   lemon   flavor. 
Hard   tack — sea    biscuit. 
Hares — Lievre;   Hasen. 

• — a  la  Bavaroise ;   sliced  with  dices  of  bacon,   stew- 
ed in  white  wine. 
■ — -a  I'Anglaise;   with  port  wine  and  lemon,  braised. 
• — a  la  Hongroise;  with  red  pepper  sauce  &  madeire. 

—  a   la   Polonaise;    with    toast   and   pepper    sauce. 
— •  a    la    Chatelaine ;    with    mushrooms    and   macaroni. 
■ —  a    la    Fermiere ;    with   bacon,    tongue   and   truffles. 
— -en  Capillotade;    cut-up,   roast,  hare  hagout. 

—  Civet  de  Lievre;   jugged  hare;   Hasenpfeffer. 

—  Gibelotte   of  hare ;    a   civet  with  white   broth  and 

mushrooms. 
Leveret — a    young   hare. 
Haricot — white    beans;    now    often    used    to    denote 

a  ragout ;    corrupt  of  ragout ;   rigot. 
Hart  shorn — the   shavings  of  stack's  horn;   made  to 

jelly;    said   to   be  nutritive. 


Hash  174  Hoe  cakes 

Hash — chopped-up ;     from    hasher;     Fr.    hashes     are 

mostly    made    with    cream    and    potatoes,     while 

minces   are   made   without   potatoes;    served  with 

toast. 
Haslet — the  edible  viscera;  heart,   liver,   kidney  and 

sweet  breads. 
Hasty    pudding — a    puding    of    eggs,     almonds    and 

corn  flour;   served  in  cup,  wine  sauce. 
Haunch — from    the    French    hanche;     loin    and    leg 

taken  together  as  one  piece. 
Hazelhen  a  la  Fermiere — ^with  potatoes,   bacon  and 

gravy;    French,    Gelinotte;    Germ.,    Haselhuhn. 
Hazelnuts — fruit  of  the  genus  corilus;  mild  farinaci- 

ous   taste,    confectionery. 
Heads — t§tes ;   Kopfe ;   contain  some  of  the  daintiest 

meats. 
Hearts — Herzen ; .  Coeurs ;    veal    stuffing   in    a    calf's 

heart,    baked,    is    one    of    many    esteemed    dishes 

of    this    organ. 
Hedgehogs — Herissons;     Igel;     savoury    and    tender, 

not  much  known  in  cookery. 
Herbs — potherbs   and    sweet,    or   aromatic   herbs. 

—  Pot    herbs;    parsley,    purslane,    tarragon,    fennel, 

borage,      dill,      cherville,      horse-raddish,      india 
cress   and  marigold. 

—  Sweet    herbs ;     thyme,    sage,    savery,    clary,    mint, 

marjoram,    basil,    rosemary,    lavender   and   cost- 
mary. 
Hermitage — favorite  after  dinner;  French  wine,  deep 

purple   color,   nutty  flavor. 
Herrings,  Harengs,  Haringe — the  poor  man's  friend; 
little  used  in  high-class   cookery. 

—  Fresh    herring ;     are    cooked    in    different    ways ; 

soft,    roed   fish   preferred. 
Het   pint — Scotch   drink ;    eggs,    sugar,    cold   ale   and 

boiling   ale,   mixed  with  whiskey. 
High-ball — tall  glass  with  ball  of  natural  ice,   liquor 

and  carbonic. 
Hippocras — a  mixture  of  Lisbone  and  Canary  wines, 

sweetened  with   sugar. 
Hock,    or   Hockheimer — ^wine   growing   in   the   Hoch- 

heim   district,    Rhineland. 
Hips — fruits   of   the   dog  rose. 

Hickory    nut — of    sweet    pleasant    flavor,    genus    car. 
Hodge-potche — see   hotchpotch. 
Hoe    cakes — made    of    ground    Indian    corn,     water 

and   salt. 


Hog  175  Hors  d'Oeuvres 

Hog — the  male  pig. 

Hogplum — tropical      fruit;      used      to      manufacture 

liqueur. 
Hoghead — a  cask  of  63   gallons. 
Hockey-pockey — a  sweet  meat. 

Hollands — a   kind  of   gin,   made   in   the  Netherlands. 
Hominy — simple   maize,   hulled  and  coarsely  ground. 
• —  Boiled    hominy ;     served    in    terrapin    plate    with 
cream  and  sugar;   a  breakfast  food. 

—  Fried  hominy;    served  with   wild  gamebirds   as    a 

rule;   or  served  with  cream,   sugar. 

Honey,  Miel,  Honig — a  sweet  substance  obtained 
by  the  bee   from  flowers. 

Hops,  Houblons,  Hopfen — catkins  of  female  plant 
of   humulus-lupulus. 

— -Boiled  hop-shoots;  boiled  in  water  with  meat; 
served  on  toast. 

Horehound — a  herb,  used  to  cure  colds  and  coughs. 

Horlys  or  Orlys — a  la  Horly;  signifies  in  fillets; 
such  as  fowls,   or   soles. 

Hore  d'Oeuvres — outside  the  subject;  it  should  be 
served  first  and  left  on  the  table  to  the  very 
last,  but  not  with  sweets;  as  it  does  not  count 
with  the  other  dishes  and  is  there  to  be  picked 
from  time  and  again.  They  are  little  prepara- 
tions, such  as  prawns,  olives,  radishes,  or  similar 
things;  mostly  served  five  or  six  in  one  bowl 
and  five  or  six  bowls  set  together  for  one  por- 
tion. 

—  Artichoke    bottom,    Russian    style ;     stuffed    With 

caviar, 

—  Barquette    Moscovite;    small    crusts,    stuffed    with 

caviar. 

—  Bouchees    Saint    Hubert;    small    patties    of    game. 
— •  Canapee,   Russian  style;    toast  with  calf's  tongue 

and    smoked    salmon. 

—  Canapees    Souwaroff ;    toast   with    caviar   and   an- 

chovie  butter. 

—  Canapee    panachee;    toast    with    caviar    and    an- 

chovies. 

—  Gondole  a  la  Duss;  quartered  apples,  scooped  out, 

stuffed  with   smoked  salmon,    celery  and  sweet 
peppers. 

—  Tomate     Monegasque ;     stuffed    with    mayonnaise, 

thunny-fish,     eggs    and    herbs. 

—  Tomates    Suedoise ;    stuffed   with    anchovies,    eggs, 

parsley  beets,  with  French  dr. 


Eors  3.' Oeuvres ^  176 Ices 

—  Tomate   Maryland ;    sliced,   fried  and  sugared. 
Horse   mackerel — thunny   fish. 

Horse-raddish,  Eaifort,  Meerretich — root  stock  of 
pungent  flavor;  grated,  and  served  with  meats, 
oysters,   etc.,   or  boiled  as   a  sauce. 

Hotch-potch — Scotch  stew;  hoche-pot;  Misch-Masch, 
assorted  vegetables,  plenty  peas,  boiled  with  mut- 
ton  and  spices. 

Houghen — a  fish  resembling  salmon. 

Howtowdy — stuffed  chicken,  boiled  with  spinach 
balls   and  poached   eggs. 

Huckleberries — see  Bilberriers;  Blueberries;  Heidel- 
beeren. 

Humbles   or  umbles — the   inner  organs   of  the   deer. 

Hungarian    wines — most    famous    is    Tokay. 

Hydromel — drink  of  honey  in  boiling  water,  cooled 
in  ice. 

Hygiene — art  of  preserving  health. 

Hyscop — herb  used  for  tea,   medicine. 

Ices,  Gefrorenes,  Glaces — delicious  entremets,  made 
from  water,    cream,    fruit   and  flavoring. 

- —  American ;    unflavored   ice   cream. 

Annanas  a  la  Caroline- — pine  apples  with  ice  cream 
and  frozen  rice. 

—  a  la  d'Orleans;   with  pineapple,  water  ice. 

—  en   Surprise ;   apple  filled  with  pine  apple,   water 

ice. 

Eachus — chocolade  ice  cream,  American  cream,  pis- 
tachio   ice  cream. 

Buiscuit  glace — ice  cream  with  fruit  mousse. 

Buiscuit  Tortoni — mousse  of  vanille  with  grated 
macarons    in    round   paper    case. 

Bombe    glace — different   ice    creams,    in    conic   bomb. 

Bordure — border   of   ice   cream  with  fruits. 

Coupe  a  la  Earl  King — glass  with  raspberries,  ice 
cream,    vanilla. 

—  aux  Fraises ;   glass  with  fresh  strawberries,  rasp- 

berrie-syrup,    vanilla,    ice    cream. 

—  a    la    Jaques ;    with    a    salpicon    of    fruits,    lemon 

and  strawberrie,  water  ice. 
- —  en  nougat ;   with  almond,   sugar  and  ice  cream. 

—  a    la    Valencienne ;     in    glass    with    oranges    and 

orange  ice   cream. 
- — Coupe   Helene ;    of   cherries   in   glass   with   vanilla 
ice     cream.       For     other     coupes,     see     Glaces, 
dressings. 


Ices '  177 Ices 

Creme  plombidre — Gefrorene  creme  mit  ScMag- 
sahne  und  Friichten,  ice  cream  with  whipped 
cream  and  fruits. 

—  a   la   Cairot ;    with   mulberries. 

—  a  la  Dame ;   vanille,   rice  cream. 

—  a    la    Duchesse;    apricot,    ice    cream, 

—  a    I'Espagnol;    with    oranges. 

—  a    la    Gladstone;    almonds    with    peel,    vanille. 
• — •  a    la    Ilavanaise ;    with    bananas. 

—  a    rimpgra trice;    rice,    maraschino    and    fruits. 

—  a  ritalienne;    of  rice  cream. 

—  a  la  Kingmann;    chocolate  with  pistachios. 

—  Chestnut   plombiere;    vanilla   with  pounded  chest- 

nuts  in   little    cone. 

—  a   la  Louis  Philippe ;    maraschino  with  apples. 

—  a   la   Madeleine;    pineapples. 

—  a   la   Marguerite;    pineapple   cream. 

—  a  la  Moderne ;    of  melons. 

■ — a  la   Montesqieu;   rice  cream  with  fruits. 

—  a  la    Moscovite;     almond    milk    with    fruits. 

—  a  la  Napolitaine ;  melons,  oranges  and  pineapples. 
• — a  la    Sultane ;    nut   cream. 

—  a  rOrientale;    strawberrie    cream. 
— '-  a  la  Pasteque ;   watermelon  cream. 

—  a  la   Rachel;    of   almond   cream. 

—  a  la  Heine;  peach  cream. 

• — a    la    Richemond;    maraschino    cream    with    nuts. 

—  a    la    Suedoise ;    apricot    cream    with    apples    and 

pears. 
Plombiere  a  la  Souveraine — of  nuts  and  peel. 
Croquantes — almond    crusts. 
Demi-glace — half    frozen ;    Halbgefrorenes. 

—  a   la   Nesselrode;    Halbgefrorenes;    chestnuts,    cho- 

colate,   raisins,    peel.    rum. 

—  a  la  Conti;   bean,  ice  cream, 

—  a   la   Portugaise ;    of  wine,   eggs,   peel. 

—  a     la     Prince     Pueckler;     chocolate,     maccaroons, 

maraschino,    rose   liquor,    black,    white   and  red. 
Excellent  au  Coffee — coffee,  flavored  custards,  mixed 
-with    whipped    cream,    frozen    in    square    moulds. 
Fieri   di   late — Italian   ice   bomb. 
Fromage  glace — ice  cream  in  a  cannelated  mould. 
Gelee  Moscovite — iced  jelly  with  fruits. 
Glace   de   Creme — Rahmgefrorenes ;    ice    cream ;    note 
the   difference   between  water   ice   and  ice   cream. 

—  Aida    cream;     strawberries,    pineapples. 

—  Albuf era ;   vanille,   chestnuts,   anisette. 


Ices 


178 


Ices 


—  Alexandre ;    cream,    noyeau,    vanille. 

— •  Alhambra ;    cream,    strawberries,    vanille. 

—  Americaine ;    creme,    nuts,    oranges. 

—  Alexandria;    bananas. 

—  a   I'Algerienne;    of   racahout. 

—  a   TAndalouse;    with   coffee    or   oranges. 

—  a    I'Arlequine;    coffee,    vanille,    strawberries,    pis- 

tachios. 

—  aux   Asperges  Verte ;    of   green   asparagus. 

—  Batavia ;   orange  and  vanilla. 

■ — Bresilienne;   mousse  au  kirsh;    pineapples. 

—  Cardinal ;    vanille,    maraskino,    currant  and  cream^ 
— -Cleopatra;    pistachios,    cream   and  rum. 

—  Comtesse     Marie ;     vanilla     and     strawberries     in 

cases. 

—  Comtesse  Tosca;   vanille  and  coffee  in  cases. 

—  Creole ;    chocolate   and   cream,    curacao,    sugarnuts.. 
— ■  a    la    Chatillon   Plesis ;    almonds,    cream   and   rum. 

—  Cialdini ;    with    cream    and    coriander. 

—  Colomb ;      maraskino,      cherry,      pistachios,      pine- 

apples. 

—  Corday;    paper    cases   with   orange,    vanilla,    mac- 

caroons,    maraskino. 
— ■  Cubaine  ;    cream   and   pineapples. 
— ■  Cumin ;   with  caraway  seeds. 

—  Donzelle ;    pineapples   with   raisins. 

—  Dame     Blanche ;     lemon    and    kirsh,     or    vanille, 

cream,    melange. 

—  Duchesse ;   orange,   cream,  kirsh. 

—  Excelsior ;    orange,    cream,    rum. 
— •  Esmeralda ;    strawberries,    almonds. 

— •  Fin  de   Siecle ;   almonds,   cream  and  rum. 

—  Glace  a  la  Floridienne;   of  orange-flower  infusion. 

—  au  Four ;   baked  in  surprise  batter. 

—  a   la   Frascati ;    vanille,    kirsh,    maccaroons. 

—  Freischiitz ;    vanilla,    caraway    seeds. 

—  Florentine ;    cream,    nuts,    raspberries. 

—  Georgette ;    pineapples,    cream,    pralines. 

—  au   Gratin ;    browned   in   batter. 

—  Havanaise ;   coffee,   cream,   vanille,    caramel,   or  of 

bananas. 

—  Japonaise ;    vanille,    crumbs,    almonds,    marascino. 

—  a  la  Leda ;    cream,   marascino. 

—  Madeleine;    cream,    vanilla,    kirsh,   pineapples. 

—  Maltaise ;    oranges,    cream,    kirsh. 

—  Marguerite;    lemon,    kirsh,    marascino. 

—  Marie  Louise ;    vanille,    strawberries,   oranges. 


Ices 179 Icea 

—  Marie   Stuart;   vanille,   cream,   anisette. 

—  Marquise ;    vanille,    cream,    nuts. 

—  Monte    Christo ;    brandy,    pralines,    strawberries. 

—  Montmorrency ;    cream,    kirsh,    in    cases. 

—  a    la    Mennet;    coffee,    kirsh    and   vanille. 

—  a    la    Mignonne ;    rice    and    lemon,    vanille,    fruits. 

—  a  la  Napolitaine;  orange,  vanille,  pistache,  square 

brick.  ' 

— •Noisette;    of   hazelnuts. 

—  Nougat;    almond,    sugar. 

—  Noyau;   nut  liquor;   kernel  liquor. 

—  Nelusko ;    chocolate,    cream,    praline,    curacao. 

—  Painnoir ;    brown    bread,    ice    cream. 

— Parisienne ;   pineapples,   chocolates,   praline. 

—  Petit   due;    vanille,    gooseberry,    bar-le-duc. 
■ —  Plombiere ;    cream,    vanille,    kirsh,    fruits. 

—  Portugaise ;    nectarines    with    ice    cream,    curacao. 
• — Princesse ;    vanille,    anisette,    maccaroons. 

• —  Palermitaine ;    with    almonds    and    pistachios. 

—  Parisienne ;    strawberry  and  vanille. 

' — Sicilienne;    cinnamon,   chocolate,   coriander. 

—  St.    Charles;    raspberries    in    peaches. 
• — •  St.   George ;    orange,    curacao,   rum. 

■ — •  Sans-gene  ;    pistache,    brandy. 

Santiago — parfait   with   praline. 

• —  Solferino ;    cream,    curacao,    strawberry,    praline. 

— ■  Sultane ;     nuts,     chocolate,     vanille. 

—  Theodore  ;    vanille,   kernel  liquor. 

—  Tutti-frutti;    strawberries,  -lemon,    fruits. 
Zanzibar — cream,    curacao,    coffee. 

Glace   au  jus  des'  fruits — fruit,   water   ices;    Frucht, 

Wasser-Eis.       Note    difference. 
Water    ices — de    cannaberges;    of    moosberries, 

—  de    Cantaloupe;    melon,    water,    ice. 

—  de  Pample  Mousse ;    of  grape   fruit,    shaddocks. 
Meringues    glaces;    meringue    shells,    filled    with   ice 

cream. 
Moscovite — iced   jelly. 
Mousse — Schaumgefrorenes ;    moss. 

—  a   la   Courbet;    pineapples   and   liquor. 

—  a    la    Francillon ;     vanille,     almonds,     maraskino ; 

in  paper  cases. 

—  a   la   Jeanne   d'Arc;    of  burnt   almonds. 
Mousseline — Schaumgefrorenes;  frozen  frothy  cream. 
Nectarine — thimblemoulds ;    Becherf  ormen, 
Navarin   de   fraises — rum   soaked   baba-cake,    pocket, 

with  kirsh   mousse,    pistachios,    strawberries. 


Ices %    180 Ices 

Omelette  souffle  en  surprise — puff  omelette  with  ica 

cream;    serve    quick,    cold    plate. 
Pain  glace — iced  pain,   cheese,   mould. 
Paniers    de    glace — sugar,    baskets    with    ice    cream, 

fruits. 
Parfait — ice  cream  in  tall  glass  with  whipped  cream, 
Poudding  glace — pains  or  bombe  glace;  frozen  pudd- 
ings;   $ee   puddings. 
Eiz    glace — Gefrorener   K-eis;    iced   rice;    see   rice. 
Souffle     glace — Gefrorener     Auflauf;     frozen     souffle; 

flavored    iced    custards.       See    puddings,     at    the 

end  is  a  list  of  souffle  glace. 
Pudding   St.   Louis — vanille     ice   in   lemon   ice,   mar- 

askino,    fruits. 
Souffle — for   these,    see   fowl    and   ices    and   be    sure 

if  it   is   a  warm   or  iced  souffle,    sweet   or   cheese, 

or   fowl. 
Souffle  au  chocolat — either  warm  or  petit  four,'  these 

with    chocolat    custard. 
Petit    souffle — a    la    vanille,    maraskino,    maccaroons, 

kirsh   and   fruits. 

—  a    la   Palmyre;    vanille,    lady's   fingers,    annisette, 

fruits. 

—  Praline  ;  vanilla,  praline,  almonds. 

—  Rothschild ;   vanille,  kirsh  and  fruits. 

—  Alcazar;    vanille,   maraskimo,    chestnuts;    baked. 
Supreme — the    flesh    of   fruits    taken   out,    soaked   in 

kirsh    or    other    liquor;    served    in    glass,    iced    or 
on  dish  with  creme   bavaroise  and  rice. 

—  Grape    fruit-of;    as    Before,    with   pondered    sugar, 

tea  spoon, 
Timbale     glace — thimble     moulds     with     ice     cream; 
glazed    with    apricot    marmelade,    filled    with    dif- 
ferent ices  and  fruits. 
'—  a  la  Francillon ;   of  hazelnut  cream,  vanille  cream, 

kirsh,  fruits,  apricots. 
-^  a  la  Sicilienne;  with  orange  jelly,  pistache  cream 

and  fruits. 
Turban  glace — border  of  ice  cream  with  fruits. 

—  aux  Praises ;  with  border  of  vanille  cream,  straw- 

berry   ice    cream,    fresh    strawberries    in    kirsh, 
raspb  erry-  syrup. 
Vacherin     glace — iced    meringue     tarte,     (with     any 

kind  of  ice    cream). 
Bishoff    glace — a    sherbet    of    champagne;    of    syrup 
and   peel;    served   in   glasses. 


Ices -^181 Icea 

Cafe  glace — frozen  coffee  with  coffee  mousse;  served 
in    cups   or   glasses. 

Iced  coffee — cold,  black  coffee;  served  in  special 
thumbler  glass  with  cold  cream,  whipped  cream, 
fine  sugar  and  natural  ice,  on  saucer  with  tea- 
spoon. 

Gramolata,  granita,  granite,  granite — a  sherbet, 
frozen,    grawley,    in   glasses. 

Marquise  glace — a  sherbet  of  wine,  water,  sugar, 
lemon,  or  of  liquor. 

Mazagran  glace — iced  coffee  punch;  served  in 
glasses. 

Punch  or  ponche  glace — sherbets ;  served  in  glasses. 

—  Americaine;    of  peaches. 

—  Anglaise  ;   of  different  fruits. 

■ —  a    la    Beatrice ;    of    lemon,    rum,    champagne,    mer- 
ingue. 

—  Bordelaise  ;    of   strawberries. 

—  a     la     Bouquetiere ;     with     flowers,     orange     and 

strawberries. 

—  a  la   Cardinal;    raspberries  and  curacao. 

—  Chesterfield;    champagne,   fruits,   syrup. 

—  Dalmate ;    raspberry,    champagne,    brandy. 

—  Delmonico ;     lemon,     orange,     kirsh,     rum,     cham- 

pagne. 

—  Dolgoruky ;    peaches,    champagne,    kirsh. 

—  Elisabeth;    strawberry    and    kirsh. 

—  Favorite ;    strawberry,    rum,    brandy. 

—  Florentine;    roses,    champagne,    lemon. 

—  Francaise;    rum    and   tea. 

—  Imperiale ;    pineapples. 

—  Indien;    pineapple,    lemon,    kummel. 

—  au  Lait :   milk  punch. 

—  Lallah   rookh;    vanille,   rum. 

—  Madison;     in    orange    peel    with    orange    sherbet. 

—  Malmesbury ;    orange   and  liquor. 

—  Marion  Delorme;   strawberry,   oranges,  maraskino. 

—  Marquise ;    lemon,    pineapple-juice,     champagne. 

—  Monogasque;    pineapple,    brandy,    sherry, 

—  Montmorrency ;    sherry,   kirsh,   white  wine. 

—  Nenuphar ;    of  peels   and  syrup. 

—  Pargny ;   sherry,   rum,   cream. 

—  Prince    de    Galle;    Prince    of    Wales;    champagne^ 

strawberry,  maraskino,  orange. 

—  Regence ;    orange,    strawberry,    pineapple. 

—  Heine;   lemon,   oranges,   brandy. 

—  Romaine ;    lemon,   rum,    champagne. 


Ilces ■- 182 Indian  corn 

^—  Russe ;    lemon,    peel,    champagne,    liquor, 

-—  Siberienne ;    vanille,   rum. 

■'"^  Souveraine ;   pineapple,  raspberry. 

^—  Stanley ;    lemon,    coffee,    kirsh. 

-—  Surprise ;   any  kind  in  the  form  of  fruits. 

—  Toscane ;    orange,    almonds,    liquor,    champagne. 

—  a  la  Tournesol ;  served  in  sun-flower  of  gumpaste. 
^abayon    glace — frozen    wine    foam. 

■'Sorbet,    sherbet,    sorbetto — served   in   glasses. 

^—  a  la  Pape ;  of  pineapples,  lemon,  champagne, 
cream. 

•"Spongeade — light  poros,  white  sugar  pastry;  a  kind 
of  sherbet  of  fruit,  egg-froth,  vanille  or  coffee 
and  chocolate;  served  in  glasses;  no  liquors  nor 
wines. 

^"Spoom — Gefrorener  Punch;  frozen  punch;  a  kind 
of    sherbet;    served    in    glasses. 

Th§  glace — iced  tea ;  large  glass  with  natural  ice ; 
tea-spoon,  lemon  and  fine  sugar;  served  with  a 
pot  of  tea;    glass   on  saucer. 

I'ruitS  glace — iced  Macedoine  of  fruits,  with  mar- 
askino    and    water    ices. 

'—  a  la  Pascale ;  with  vanilla,  ice  and  raspberry- 
juice. 

Iceland  moss — of  the  Lychen  tribe ;  food  for  in- 
valides, 

^ces — glaces ;  Gefrorenes,  gelati ;  delicious  entre- 
mets,  made  from  water,   cream,  fruit  &  flavoring. 

^Cing — frosting,   glazing  with  sugar-lotions. 

-Imperial — a  summer  drink ;  sugar,  lemon,  cream 
of  tartare,  in  boiling  water,  iced. 

^Imperial  wine — a  French  dry  orange  wine. 

Indian  corn — Mais. 

—  Boiled    green    corn;     short    thick    ears    of    fresh 

green  corn,  boiled  20  minutes;  serve  with 
fresh  butter;  extra  plate,  small  and  hot  for 
this  dish. 
^—  Corn  off  the  cob ;  in  chafing  dish ;  scraped  off 
the  cop,  saute  with  butter,  paprika  and  salt; 
small   vegetable   plate. 

—  Corn  off  the  cob  in  front  of  the  guest ;   take  the 

corns  in  hot  napkins,  one  separate  hot  terra- 
pin plate ;  scrap  off  the  corn,  mix  freely  with 
sweet  butter  and  cayenne  and  serve.  This  is 
best    done    in    chafing    dish,    as    otherwise    the 


Indian  corn '183 Jeaune-mangeg- 

preparation  gets  cool  and  the  butter  will  not 
melt  as  it  should. 

—  Pop-corn   candy;    green   corn,   boiled,    in  molassea. 

mixture    which    makes    it    puff-up. 

—  Stewed    green     corn ;     boiled    with    butter,    flour, 

milk   and   seasoning. 

—  Green   corn   saute   a  la   creme ;    saute  with  becha- 

mel,  cream  and  butter;    seasoning  nutmeg. 

—  Green    corn    fritters ;     corn    off    the    cob,     mixed 

with  eggs,  flour,  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  boiled 
to    stiff-paste,    fried    in    oil. 

Indigo — a   vegetable   coloring. 

Inferno — a   wine    of   Lombardy. 

Infusion — the  act  of  extracting  the  virtues  of  sub- 
stances by  putting  them  in  a  heated  vessel  and 
pouring  boiling  water  over,    as  in  making  tea. 

Irish  stew — neck  of  mutton,  onions  and  potatoes 
stewed. 

Isinglass — refined  form  of  gelatine,  being  the  dried 
blatter  of  a  certain  fish,  especially  the  sturgeon; 
Hausenblasse. 

Isinglassine — artificial    isinglass. 

Ita — drink,  made  by  scalding  and  scraping  Ita-palm- 
fruit    into    water,    sweetening. 

Italian  fry — ram's  kidneys,  bread,  tendons  of  veal^ 
calf's  brains,  sweet  breads,  rice  croquettes,  cauli- 
flower; egg-plant,  anchovie,  artichokes,  all  dipped 
into  butter  and  fried;    served  on   same   dish. 

Italian  paste — see  paste. 

Italian  salad — see  salad. 

Italian  wines — some  of  the  very  best  wines  are 
grown  in  Italy,  but  they  are  not  enough  recog- 
nised, though  they  are  cheaper  then  their  French 
brethren,  under  whose  name  they  are  very  often 
sold. 

Ivory — dust  obtained  from  ivory-turners,  is  often 
used   to    make    a   jelly. 

Jam — Conserve,    a    cheese,    made    of    fruit    and   kept 

in    jars. 
Jamaica  pepper — see  allspice. 

Jamun — a  sort  of  plum,  preserved  or  made  to  wino» 
Jardiniere    a    la — after    the    style    of    a    gardener's 

wife;    a   medley   of   vegetables. 
Jeaune-manger — a    yellow    food;    a    kind    of    blano- 

manger   of   yellow   color. 


-Jellies ''184 Juniper 

Jellies — Fr.,    Gelees;    Ger.,    Gallerten;    jellied    con- 
somme ;    cold   served  in   cups,    stiff. 

—  a    rimperiale;    champagne    jelly    with    pineapple. 

—  a    I'Angelique;    with    angelica. 

—  a   la   Bachus;   with  grape-juice,    sugar  and  cham- 

pagne. 

a   la   Belle   Americaine ;    try-colored  with   candied 

fruits. 

—  a    la   Bigarade ;    with   hitter    oranges. 

' — en    Casserole    a    I'Anglaise;    with    rum,    jelly,    in 

saucepan. 
• — a   la  Earl  of  Fife;   pistachio,  whipped  cream  and 

lemon. 

—  a    la    Princesse   Louise;    whisked   jelly   in   middle 

of  plain  wine   jelly. 
Jersey   wonders — sweet  fritters. 
Jerusalem  artichoke — see  artichoke. 
Jessamine — essence   from  flower,   used  for  flavoring. 
Jesuit's  tea — an  infusion   of  the  leaves   of  psoralea 

grandulosa. 
Jew-fish — 500    pounds,    Mexico;    food    of   natives. 
Jhal   freeze — a    simple   hash   with   lots    of   peppers; 

India, 
John    Dory — a    very    superior    fish,    flat    and   broad. 

—  Boiled    John    Dory    a    la    Soyer;    boiled,     onions, 

sherry,    bechamel,    mushrooms,    oysters,    cream 
sauce. 
Joints — technical    term    given    to    those    pieces    into 

which  it  is  customary  to   cut-up  an  animal. 
•Jorum — an   old   fashioned    earthenware   jar. 
Jowl — the  cheek  and  jaw,   as  of  a  fish. 
Jugs — vessels     having     large     bodies     and     narrow 

mouths. 
Juglandine — ^bitter    liqueur,    made    from    the    shells 

of  walnuts. 
Jujubes — ^plumlike    fruit    of    an    African    tree;    now 

imitated    in    flavored    gum    and    water,     said    to 

hold  the  same  properties. 
Juleps — drinks    composed    of    sugar    and    spirit    in 

aromatic    water,    flavored    with    fresh    mint    and 

chilled  with  broken  ice. 
Julienne — shreds    of    vegetables    as    a    rule ;    a    con- 
somme  with  vegetable   shreds. 
Jumbles — little   cakes;    layed  around  the  finger  and 

baked  in   this   curled  form. 
Juniper — hollunder,  gin  is  flavored  with  the  essence 

of  this   shrub. 


Junk  <•  185  Kissing-crust 

Junk — the   name   given  by   sailors   to   salted  beef. 
Jus — French  term  for  gravy   of  meat. 

Eabob — a  roast  with  sundry  modifications,  such  as 
stuffing  with  sweet  herbs  and  herrings;  now 
applied   to   skewers,    etc. 

Kadgiori — see    kedgeree. 

Kail — see   kale. 

Kale — a  cole,  or  undeveloped  cabbage ;  leaves  do 
not   form  a  head;    Winterkohl. 

—  Sea-kale ;    choux  marin  a  la  Russe ;    horseraddish» 
cream,    cheese,    Hollandaise    sauce. 

Kangaroo — tail  used  like  oxtail;   said  to  be  superior. 

Kava — a  beveredge  prepared  from  kave,  or  the 
long  pepper. 

Kedgeree — fish ;  egg,  hot  milk,  butter,  saute  with 
rice. 

Kern    milk — Scotch    expression    for    buttermilk. 

Ketchup — a  piquant  sauce,  made  from  mushroom 
or    tomato,    of    Japanese    origin. 

Khat — a  shrub  in  Arabia ;  the  leaves  and  shoots- 
are    used    like    and    for    tea. 

Khoosh    bitters — a    tonic    and    appetiser. 

Khulash,  or  Gulyash — which  latter  term  is  the 
right  one;  an  Austrian  stew,  made  first  by  the 
sheepherds  of  the  Hungarian  Pusstah  from  vari- 
ous cut-up  meats,  onions,  paprika  (lots),  po- 
tatoes,   brown    tomatoes. 

Kid — Fr.,  chevreau;  Ger.,  Zigglein;  young  goat, 
killed    between   six   weeks    and   four   months. 

Ead,  country  captain — partly  roast  and  broiled, 
then  cut-up,  saute  with  onions,  chillies  and' 
turmeric. 

Kidneys,  Rognons,  Nieren — see  garnitures,  sauces 
and    soups. 

Kilderkin — a   beer   cask   holding   18   gallons. 

Kimmel — see  Kuemmel. 

Kingfish — an  American  fish,  known  as  surf  whiting. 

Kipper — lit.  to  hatch;  usually  herrings;  split  open, 
salted   and    smoked. 

Kirschwasser — liqueur,  made  from  cherries,  crushed 
with    their    stones    and    kernels. 

Kishr— Arabian  name  for  coffee  husk ;  ground^, 
dried,   made  into   coffee. 

Blisses — small    pieces    of    confectionery;    candies. 

Kissing-crust — that  portion  of  a  loaf  that  has  been 
touching    another    loaf    in    baking. 


Xitclien  »^   186  Ladies'  fingers 

Kitchen — cuisine ;    Kiiche. 

Klipfish — name  for  the  dried  cod,  imported  from 
Norway. 

Kloesse — German  name  for  small  dumplings ;  usu- 
ally  served   in    soup. 

^Kneading — the  process  by  which  the  ingredients 
of   dough    are    thoroughly   mixed. 

Kneffles — small    dumplings  ;     Kloesschen. 

Enickebelu — week-kneed ;  a  pick-me-up  ;  egg-yolk 
in   champagne   glass;    brandy  and  curacao. 

Unot — the  sandpiper;  when  fat,  can  hardly  be  dis- 
tinguished from   quail. 

"Knuckle — this  term  refers  to  the  lower  part  of  a 
leg. 

Sohl-rabi — a  curious  variety  of  cabbage,  the  edible 
part  being  the  stem  which  is  SAVollen  and  en- 
larged,   to    the    shape    and    size    of    a    turnip. 

-Kokum — round  acid  fruit,  sliced  and  dried,  much 
used   in   Indian   cookery. 

Kosher — this  is  a  term  used  in  Jewish  cookery, 
denoting  pure. 

koumiss — a  sort  of  milk  wine,  made  by  fermenting 
mare's,    camel's    or   other  milk. 

-Kourabied.es — cake,  made  in  Turkey;  beloved  by 
the   ladies   of  the  harem. 

Krapfen — German   for   fritters. 

-Krapleu — tasty    German    cakes,     go    well    with    tea. 

"Kseat — an  infusion  of  Kreat,  makes  an  excellent 
bitter    tonic. 

Kreatine — the    active   principle   of  mea-t. 

Kringles — fancy  name  of  cakes,  made  in  buiscuit 
form. 

Kromeskies — see  Cromesquies. 

Kufte — Turkish;  meat  in  hard  cake-rolls  with 
brown  butter  sauce. 

-Kuemmel — name  of  Russian  and  German  liquor, 
compounded  of  cumin,   caraway  seeds. 

^umquat — a  Japaneese  fruit  of  the  citron  tribe, 
somewhat    like    orange. 

Kwas — a  kind  of  beer,  brewed  in  Russia. 

Labrador  tea — James's  tea;  infusion  of  the  leaves 
of    the   Ledum   Palustre. 

Xactic   acid — the   acid   of    sour   milk. 

Xadies'  delight — a  mild  pickle  of  sour  apples,  on- 
ions,   chillies,   in  wine   or   vinegar. 

Xadies'   fingers — see  cakes  and  buiscuits. 


Lager  beer  *187  Lamb  chopft 

Lager    beer — from    the    German    lager,    to    store    or 

lay-by:     stored    over    winter. 
Lamb,    Agneau,    Lamm — see    tournedos,    sauces    and' 

garnitures. 
— -Entier;    sauce  poivrade;  roasted  whole,  with  mint 

per   sauce. 

—  en  Brochette  a  la  Dumas — marinaded  with  corned; 

beef,    breaded,    roasted,    colbert   sauce. 

—  Carre    d' Agneau;    forequarter,    target    of    lamb. 

—  Chartreuse   d'Agneau;    with   vegetables   in  mould.. 

—  a  la  Dudley ;  roast  gigot  with  kidneys  and  sweet: 

breads. 

—  Froid;     sauce     menthe ;     roast,     cold,     with     mint 

sauce. 

—  a  la  Gastronome ;  boiled  lamb  breast  with  lettuce,. 

boiled   in   mould,    white    sauce. 

—  a   la   Hongroise;    stewed,    sliced,    with   onions   an^ 

paprika. 
— -a    la    Milanaise;    braised   with    tomatoes,    macaro- 
ni   and   mushrooms. 

—  n   la  Paskal ;    Passover  lamb. 

—  Roast     lamb ;      should     always     be     served     wittb 

sauce;    at   least   in    America. 

—  Rotie  a  la  Venaison;    as  venison;    red  wine  mar- 

inade,  sour  cream   sauce. 
Cotes  or  cotelettes  d'Agneau — fore  quarter  and  cut* 
lets;    see    tournedos    and    garnishes. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;  egged,  breaded,  roasted,  green  peas^ 

—  a     I'Algerienne;     stuffed     with     artichoke     pur6e». 

force-meat  and  truffles. 

—  Arago;    stuffed    with    duxelle,    colbert    sauce. 

—  a  la  Belle  Alliance;   roasted  with  foie  gras,   truf- 

fles,    madeire   with   tomato   sauce. 

—  a    la    Boulangere;    dipped   in    oil   and   flour,    roast 

on    spit,    cream    sauce. 

—  Braza ;  with  marrow  fritters  and  red  wine  saucGv 

—  a    la    Bussy ;    saute,    stuffed   with    forcemeat    and- 

truffles. 

—  a   la   Chancelliere;   whole   saddle,   shoulder  chopp- 

ed,  spiced,  breaded  and  baked. 

—  a  la  Carignane ;   egged  with  cheese,  roast  in  but- 

ter on   paste   border,    combs;    brown   sauce. 

—  a    la    Catalane;    stuffed    with    cream    sauce,    truf- 

fles, red  peppers;  browned. 

—  a   la    Champvallon ;    braised   with    gravy   and   p<v^ 

tatoes. 


Xam'b  chops •"  188 Lamb  chops 

—  a   la    Charleroi ;    stuffed  with   onion  mush,    cheese 

and   baked. 
^ — a  la  Chantilly;   stuffed  with  pea  puree,  saute. 

—  a   la    Chatelaine ;    stuffed  with   forcemeat   and   on- 

ions,  brown   sauce,    pea   puree. 

—  a    la    Cambon ;    stuffed    with    oyster   plant,    sweet 

peppers ;    brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Clichy ;  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  baked,  cham- 

pagne   sauce. 

—  en   Crepinettes ;    in   nets. 

—  a  la  Cussy;    on  forcemeat  border,   ragout  of  truf- 

fles,   tongue,    sweet   breads,    madeire. 

—  a   la   Dada    Grof na ;    with   Russian   sauce. 

a    la   Dauphine ;    larded   with    truffles    and  tongue. 

—  a  la  Demi-deuil ;   with  truffles,  madeire  sauce  and 

crusts. 

—  a   la   Dubarry;   with   artichoke  puree. 

—  a    la    Duchesse;    stuffed   with    uxelle,    baked,    pea 

puree,    vegetables    in    white    sauce. 

—  Farcie;    stuffed;    one   side  with   a   layer  of  force- 

meat  as   a   rule.     , 

—  en  Feuilettes ;   in  puff  paste. 

—  a    la    Fremeuse;     breaded,     saute,    garlic,    turnip 

puree. 

- —  au  Four ;   baked. 

Fourees ;   very  much  like  farcie,   stuffed  with  ar- 
tichoke   piiree. 

—  a    la    Francaise;    with    mushrooms,    fowl    breasts, 

tongue,    truffles,    madeire    sauce. 
■ —  a    la    Francillon ;     with    veal    force    and    truffles, 
baked,     truffle    sauce. 

—  a   rimperatrice;    stuffed,    saute,    onion   puree   and 

celery   puree. 

—  a    la    Maintenon;    stuffed    with    forcemeat,    white 

cream    sauce. 

—  a   la   Maison   d'or;    breaded,   frizzled,    crusts   with 

foie    gras ;    brown    sauce. 

—  a    la    Japonaise;    broiled   with    Japanese    crosnes; 

screw   shaped  turnips. 

—  a    la    Maltaise ;    white    cream    sauce,    Xeres    wine, 

orange-juice. 
a   la   Marechale;    stuffed  with  forcemeat,   truffles; 

brown   sauce. 
■ —  a    la    Marseillaise ;    breaded,    saute,    garlic,    tomato 

sauce. 

—  a    la   Massena;    stuffed,    foie    gras,    chicken    cream 

ragout ;    madeire. 


Lamb  chops  »   189  Lamb 

—  a  la  Minute;  fried. 

—  a    la    Monacco ;     stewed    with    capers    and    peas, 

milk   sauce. 
- —  a  la   Montgelas ;   with  truffles,   mushrooms,   tongue 
julienne ;    white   sauce. 

—  a     la    Nelson;     breaded,     saute,     with    mushroom 

puree. 
- — a     la     Piemontaise;     breaded,     saute    with    force- 
meat,   brown    sauce,    celery    knobs. 

—  a    la    Pelissier;    broiled,    madeire    sauce,    chicken 

livers   and  truffles. 

—  a    la    Leverrier;     stuffed    with    forcemeat,     sweet 

breads  and  truffle  sauce. 

—  a    la    Pompadour;    stuffed    with    ragout    en    papi- 

lotte;    see   there. 
- — a    la    Robert;    with    brown   onion    sauce. 

—  a    la    Robinson;    broiled    with    brown    sauce    with 

chicken  livers. 
- —  a    la    Saint    Hilaire ;    saute    with    tomatoes,    green 
peppers,  mushrooms,   brown  sauce. 

—  a    la    Saint   Cloud;    larded   with   truffles. 

- — a  la  E.  F.  Sheppard;  stuffed  with  truffles,  tongue 
and  green  peas,  foie  gras,  crusts. 

■ —  a  la  Victor  Hugo ;  witii  horse-raddish  and  truf- 
fle  sauce. 

—  a    la   Westmoreland;    with    sliced    truffles. 

—  a    la    Zingara;    with    smoked    tongue    in    julienne, 

ham,    brown    sauce. 
Umincee   d'Agneau — minced   lamb. 

—  a    la    Melicourt;    with   potatoes    on    toast. 
Epaule    a   la    Gendarme — shoulder   with    tongue,    en- 
dives   and   madeire. 

—  a   la   Montmorrency ;    boned,    stuffed,    stewed  with 

truffles. 
- —  a  la  Theodore ;  boned,  stuffed,  steamed  with  wine, 
bacon,   vegetable,   madeire. 

—  a  la  Windsor;    with  beef  tongue. 
Epigrammes    d'Agneau — a    I'Ancienne;     forequarter, 

boned,    round    slices,    breaded   with   uxelle,    baked 
on   forcemeat   border   with   new   peas. 

—  a    la    Jerusalem;,    breast    of    lamb,    breaded    with 

Jerusalem    artichokes. 

—  a    la    Louisianaise;    slices,    breaded,    broiled   with 

broiled    sweet    potatoes    and    madeire    sauce. 

—  With    chicken    livers ;     breast    of    lamb,    breaded, 

fried    with    broiled    lamb    chops ;    chicken    liver 
sauce. 


Lamb  *  190 Lamb 

—  Escaloppes  d'Agneau;    collops   of  lamb. 
Fillets    d'Agneau — lamb    fillets. 

—  a    la    J.    E.    Hedrington;    with    ham;     served    by- 

ripping  paper  up,  but  serving  the  fillet  in  the 
paper    on   guests   plate. 

—  a    la    H.    McConnel ;    in    paper    cover    with    ham^ 

Spanish   sauce,   financiere  garnish. 
Fraise  d'Agneau — rufQe  of  lamb. 
Fresure    d'Agneau — lamb    fry    or    fries,    the    plucky 

heart,   liver,    lights,    etc. 
Fricandeau     d'Agneau — lamb     breast,      larded     and 

braised. 
Gigot  d'Agneau — -leg  of  lamb. 

—  a  la  Palestine ;   with  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

—  a  la  Polonaise ;  marinaded  with  sour  cream  sauce. 

For   other   garnishes,    see   mutton,    sauces,    gar- 
nishes. 
Gorge   d'Agneau — scrag  or  neck  of  lamb. 
Haricot   d'Agneau — Haricot    d'Agneau    or   ragout   of 

lamb. 
Issue  d'Agneau — ruffle  of  lamb. 
Karri   d'Agneau — curry    of   lamb. 
Noisette   d'Agneau — fillets   d'agneau;    same  part   a» 
fillet   mignon   of   beef. 

—  a    la    Belmont ;    broiled    with    mushrooms,    cucum- 

bers   and    truffles. 

—  a   la   Cherubin ;   with  mushroom  sauce   and  paper 

cover;     papilotte. 

Mignonette  d'Agneau  a  la  Rachel — small  fillets 
steak,  sauce  brune,  artichoke  bottoms,  marrow 
and    truffles. 

Noisette  a  la  Sevigne — with  patties  of  fine  ragout. 

Pilaff   a  la   Grecque — rice   with   fowl   livers. 

Pascaline  d'Agneau  a  la  Eoyale — Passover  lamb^ 
stuffed. 

Pieds    d'Agneau — lamb's    feet,    lamb's    trotters. 

Patee  Chaud  d'Agneau  a  la  Richelieu — ;lamb's 
sweet  bread,   pie  with  cream  sauce  in  patties. 

Crepinette  de  Pieds  d'Agneau — flat  sausages  of 
lamb's   feet   in   net. 

Quartier   d'Agneau — quarter   or  for  quarter. 

Poitrine  d'Agneau,  Farcie  a  la  Verie — boned,  stuf- 
fed  with   force-meat   with   French   beans. 

A  la  Moltke — with   chestnut   and  potato  puree. 

A  la  St.  Menehould — breast  stuffed  with  veal  force- 
meat,   with    asparagus    sauce. 

Rocky  Mountain  oysters — lamb's  fries,  sweet  breads. 


Iiamb  »  191 Lemon 

Rack  of  lamb — Quarre  d'Agneau;  a  la  Bonne-Fem- 
me;  in  casserole  with  potatoes  and  gravy,  garlic 
flavored. 

Roti  d'Agneau — a  la  Kief tico ;  dressed  with  quarter- 
ed  artichokes,    potatoes,   mushrooms   and   grpvy. 

Selle  d'Agneau — saddle  of  lamb;  a  la  Nivernaise, 
with  carrots  and  potatoes. 

—  a    I'Aspicius;    with   green    peas,    chestnuts,    cauli- 

flowers,   artichoke    bottoms,    half-glaze. 

—  a    la    Salvandy ;    with    partridge    forcemeat,    truf- 

fles   sauce,    stuffed   cabbages. 
Sikbaj   a  I'Arabique — Arab,   stew  of  sheep's  head. 
Sut    Kebabi — Turkish    lamb    steaks. 
Petit  Agneau — Spring  lamb ;    always  take  note  when 

Spring    lamb    is    ordered    on    account    of    higher 

price. 

Xiallah  Rookh — a  sherbet,  made  of  vanilla  ice  cream 
with    rum,    sherbet    glass. 

Lamblc — a    strong   beer   brewed   in  Belgium. 

Ijampreys — Fr.,  Lampreies;  Ger.,  Lampreten;  fam- 
ous  eel-like   fish. 

Landrails — corncakes. 

Lapwings — Fr.,  Vanneaux;  Ger.,  Kiebitze;  small 
birds  of   the  plover  family. 

—  Oeuf s    de    Vanneaux ;    plovers    eggs,    see    plovers 

eggs. 
Lard — Fr.,   Saindoux;    Ger.,   Schweinef ett ;   the  white 

fat   of   the    pig,   melted  down. 
Larder — a   pantry. 
Larding — fatless    meats,    enriched    with    thin    strips 

of  lard,    by  means   of   a   larding  needle. 
Lardooas — Fr.,    Lardons;    strips    of   bacon   fat,    used 

in    larding. 
Larks — Fr.,    Alouettes;    Ger.,    Lerchen. 
Larks    in    Nests — stuffed    and    boned    on    artichoke 

bottom,    in    case    with    eggs    of    forcemeat,    stuffed 

in  mushrooms. 
Lavender- — an    aromatic    plant    of    the    genus    Lavan- 
dula;   an  essence. 
Laver — an  edible   sea-weed. 
Lecha  crema — a   Spanish   cream   custard. 
Leeks — Fr.,     Poireaux;     Ger.,     Lauch;     between    the 

onion    and   garlic. 
Legumes — plants     that     bear     pots ;     vegetables     in 

general. 
Lemons — Fr.,   Citrons;    Ger.,   Citronen. 


Lentils       ■  192 Lobster 

Lentils — Fr.,    Lentilles;    Ger.,    Linsen;    shaped    like 

a  lens;   veget. ;   like  peas. 
Lettuces — Fr.,     Laitues;     Ger.,     Lattiche;     used    for 

soups,    vegetables    and    salads. 
Leveret — a  young  hare. 

Liaison — conjunction ;    lie  ;    bound    together. 
Licorice — see  liquorice. 
Lights — the  lungs   of  an  animal;    so   called,  because 

of  their  lightness. 
Lilies    of    the    valley — an    excellent    wine    is    made 

in  Germany  from  the  flowers  of  this  plant,  mixed 

with   raisins. 
Lima    beans — a    soft    butterbean;    very    much    like 

flagolets;    see    beans. 
Limes — fruit  of  the  citrus  limetta;   closely  allied  to 

the   lemon ;    small   and   sweet ;    used   for   cordials ; 

a    preventive    for    scurvy. 
Limpets — a    rochfish;    good    to    eat,    can   be    cooked. 

in  any  way  like  oysters. 
Linf — a    fish,    species    of    cod. 
Linseed — the  seed  of  flax;  used  as  tea  for  invalides; 

glutinous    and    aromatic. 
Liqueurs — see    cordials,     cocktails    and    liquors. 
Liquorice — Fr.,     Reglisse;     Ger.,     Lakritze;     -sweet 

root,    growing    wild    in    subi-tropical    climes ;     ex- 
tract   obtained    by    slicing    and    boiling. 
Licorice    paste — Barendreck ;    root    scraped,    bruised: 

and     boiled,     reduced,     mixed    with     gum-dragon,. 

strained;    made   in   paste   with   sugar. 
Litre — measure   in  the  metric   system;    1.76   English. 

pints. 
Liver — Fr.,     Foie;     Ger.,     Leber;     must    be     cut    in 

'   strips    and  .washed   before    cooking. 
Liver  Kabobs — cut  in  equal  pieces,  on  skewer,  with 

fat,   sauce  of  stock,   garlic,   vinegar. 
Loach — a   small   river  fish. 

Lobsters — Fr.,    Homards;    Ger.,   Hummern;    see   Ter- 
rapin. 

—  a    I'Americaine;    mushrooms,    onions,    garlic    with 

spices  roast  in  oil,  boiled  with  tomatoes  and 
Chablis  wine,  lobster  cut-up  or  sliced  in  tomato 
sauce  with   eggs ;    served  over. 

—  en  Belle-vue;   in  jelly. 

—  au  Beurre ;   broiled  with  maitre  butter,   and  but- 

ter   sauce. 
Bordelaise — white   wine,    white   sauce,    onions,   mush- 
rooms and  egg-yolks,   or  the  same  with  red  wine.. 


Lobster  -\  193 Lobster 

—  a  la  Borgia;    with  Italian   sauce. 

—  a  la   Sauce  Rouge;   paste  of  lobster  roes,   lobster 

marrow,  egg-yolks  with  oil,  with  shallots  and 
dragon ;    served   cold. 

—  a  la  Brentano ;  a  ragout  of  lobster  in  shells  with 

slices  of  the  tails  and  jelly;  served  cold  in 
piramyd. 

—  en  Brochette;   slices  of  lobster  with  bacon,  broil- 

ed   with    butter. 

—  a    la    Chevreuse ;     slices    of    boiled    lobster    with 

shallots,  madeire,  spices  and  white  cream 
sauce,  stuffed  in  silver  shells,  with  truffles, 
baked. 

—  a    la    Creme;    in    cream    sauce;    in    chafing    dish 

with  dry  toast,  terrapin  plate ;  should  be 
handed  around,  so  that  guest  can  help  him- 
self. 

—  a    la    Delmonico;     slices,    boiled    in     cream    and 

madeire   with  egg-yolks   and  spices. 

—  a  la   Diable ;   with  mustard,    cayenne  and  brandy, 

stuffed  on  halves,  breaded,  baked. 

—  Farcie ;    stuffed    on    halves. 

—  Farcie     a     la     Narraganset ;     croquette     paste     iik 

shells,   breaded,   baked. 

—  a  la  Gloucester;   in  jelly  with  garniture  of  eggs, 

mayonnaise  sauce. 

—  Lobster    a    la    Cardinal;     stuffed    with    cream    in 

shell,   gratinee. 

—  Lobster   Grille  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel;   broiled  with 

Maitre    butter    and    drawn    biitter;     serve    sep. 

—  a  la  Diable ;   chopped,  re-filled,  devilled,  browned^ 

—  a    la    Hambourgeoise ;    boiled   with   lobster    sauce. 

—  a    la    Herrenhausen ;    marinaded,    cold    with    jelly 

and    mayonnaise     sauce,    pyramid. 

—  a  la  Honolulu;   ragout  with  rice. 

—  a   rindienne;    curry  with  rice. 

—  a  rirelandaise;  ragout  with  Xeres  wine  &  lemon^ 

—  a  la  Louisiana ;   sliced  with  cream  sauce. 

—  a    la    Mariniere ;    with    white    wine,    carrots    and 

onions. 

—  a  la  Maryland;  sliced  with  tomatoes,  cream  sauce- 

and  rice. 

—  a   la    Micado ;    chopped,    re-filled   in    shell,    cream> 

sauce    and    truffles. 

—  a    la    Nantaise;    sliced   with    mayonnaise    sauce, 
——a    la    Newburg;    sliced    in    cream    with    egg-yolks- 

and  madeire ;   served  in  chafing  dish. 


Lo'bster 194^ Lobster 

^-      -.  .  .  , 

—  a    la    Nippon;    chopped,    re-filled    in    shell,    port 

wine    and    brandy,    meringue,    flambe, 
; —  a  la  Pasha ;    shells  filled  with  lobster  forcemeat, 

butter   and   baked. 
^ —  a    la    Parisienne ;     boiled    in    white    wine,    sauce 

madeire   with   tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Philadelphia ;    with   truffles. 

—  a    la   Provencale;    in  white   wine,    mushrooms,    oil 

and   garlic,    brown   sauce. 

—  a  la  Rushmore ;   chopped  with  onions,  white  wine, 

baked    with    madeire    and    tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Savannah;    in  coquille,   green  peppers,  white 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Suedoise;    in    border    of    lobster-meat    and 

force,    anchovie    sauce. 
■^—  a  la  Turque ;    with   saffron  rice. 

—  a  la  Varenne;    cold  in  jelly. 
• —  a   la  Victoria ;   in  shells. 

a   la   Washington;    cut   in   thick    slices    a   I'Amer- 

icaine,    with    white    sauce,    truffles,    stuffed    in 
shells,    glazed. 

—  a   la   Harlequin;    cold   in   jelly,    dressed   in  funny 

style. 

—  in    Jelly    a    I'Ancienne;     cold    with    jelly,     vege- 

table   salad,    red    mayonnaise    sauce. 

—  Ballon    de    Homard;    mould   of   lobster   forcemeat 

in  jelly  with   spices,    cold. 
■^— Ballotines     de     Homard;     forcemeat     of     lobster, 
stuffed    in    tomatoes   with   white    sauce;    served 
with    fish    quenelle,    hot;     maybe    served    cold 
in  jelly. 

—  Buisson   de   Homard;    bushel   of   lobsters. 

— Qoquille   de  Homard;   forcemeat  of  lobster  stuffed 
in    silver    shells,    baked. 

—  Cotelettes  de  Homard;  lobster  force-meat,   stuffed. 

with    cream    sauce,     breaded    and    eggs;     fried 
in   hot  fat  with   fried  parsley. 
• — Escaloppes  d'Homard  a  la  Veri;   slices  with  rag- 
out of  tomatoes,  nuddles,  mushrooms. 

—  Gratin    d'Homard    a   la    Diplomat;    in   paste   with 

egg-sauce,    baked,    oyster    garnish. 
— -Medallions  de  Homard;   force   of  lobster,   in  rice 
border. 

—  Miroton    de    Homard;    lobster    slices    on    salad. 

—-Mousse    or    Mousseline    de    Homard;    moss,    very 
light  and   spongy,    of  lobster,    cream  sauce  and 


Lobster i    l/'S Macaronti 

chaudfroid    sauce;     a    paste,     in    little    moulds- 
cold    with    mayonnaise    sauce. 

—  Omelette    de    Homard    a    I'Americaine ;     salpicon 

of  lobster  in  omelette  with  red  butter. 

—  Pain   de   Homard;    jelly   paste    or   cheese   of   lob« 

ster. 

—  Patee  de  Homard;   lobster  pie. 

Locusts — the     name     given     to     the     sweet    pods    or 

beans   of   the    Care-tree,    from  which   a   brandy  i» 

made;    sometimes  used  as   gin. 
Logwood — a    color    is   prepared   from   this;    used    in 

confectionery. 
Loin — that   part   of    an    animal   which    extends    from 

the  backbone   between   the  ribs   and  tail. 
Loquat — the   fruit   of   the   Japanese   Medlar;    size    of" 

large   plum,    contains   four   seeds. 
Louvain  beer — brewed  in  Antwerpen ;   taste  of  pine* 

wood. 
Lovage — root,    is   used   to    prepare   cordial. 
Love  apples — tomatoes. 
Love    in    disguise — calf's    heart,    stuffed    with    veal 

forcemeat;    rolled    in    vermicelli. 
Loving    cup — costly    cup    filled    with    spiced    wine; 

passed  round,    each  guest  drinks   of  it. 
Lozenges — small     sweetmeats     or    medicated     tablet* 

in    four    cornered    form;    prepared    without    heat 

by    poudering    ingredients    and    beating    them    in 

stiff   paste    with    gum. 
Luncheons— meal   between  breakfast   and  dinner. 
Lucines — French     for     clams. 

Macaroni — a    preparation    of    fine    wheat    flour    and 
water;    usually   made    in   pipe    form. 

—  a    I'Alleinande ;    boiled    with    butter    and    cream; 

sometimes   cut  up   ham. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;    boiled   in   stock,    cheese   and  bread- 

crumbs,   baked. 
• — 'a    la    Bayonnaise;    with   ham. 

—  a  la  Bechamel;    with   white   cream  sauce. 

—  au  Beurre ;    boiled,   baked  with   cheese,    egg,   milk 

and   butter. 

—  a   la   Bourgeoise;    with  butter   and   cheese. 

—  a   la   Calabrese ;    with  puree   of   tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Camerani ;    with    egg-plant,     cheese,    musb^- 

rooms    and    cock's    combs. 

—  a    la    Cardinal;    with    crayfish. 

—  en   Coquille;    served   in   shells. 


Macaroni *  196 Macaroons 

—  a   la   Cussy;    with  truffles   and  cock's   combs. 

—  a    la    Dominicaine ;    boiled    with    puree    of    mush- 

rooms   and    anchovies. 

—  au   Four;    baked. 

—  Fourre ;    coated   with   fine    hash. 

—  a,   la  Francaise;    with  white  wine. 

— -  a    la    Genoise ;    boiled,    baked    with    cheese    and 
mustard. 

—  au    Gratin;    baked    with    a    crust    of    cheese    and 

butter. 

—  aux   Huitres ;    with   oysters. 

—  a   la   Hussarde ;    with   truffles,    cheese   and   cream. 

—  Incasciati;     with     eggplant,     mushrooms,     cock's 

comb. 

—  a     ritalienne;     with    brown    gravy,     butter    and 

cheese.      (b)    or   cooked  with  milk. 

—  a  la  Levantine ;  with  puree  of  tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Livournaise ;  with  puree  of  tomatoes. 

—  Maigre  a   la  Napolitaine;   boiled  in  milk;    served 

with  mussels. 

—  a  la  Menagere ;   boiled  with  Swiss  cheese. 

-—  a    la    Milanaise ;    with    ham,    tongue,    mushrooms 
and   puree    of    tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Montgelas ;    with   julienne   of   truffles,    mush- 

rooms,   chicken   and   tongue. 

—  a  la  Napolitaine;  boiled  in  saltwater  with  onions; 

stewed    with    cheese    and    cream,    or   with    torn. 

—  a  la  Nicotera ;  with  beef  and  mushrooms. 

—a    la    Portugaise;     with    puree    of    tomatoes    and 

cheese. 
.—  a    la    Paspoly;    maccarooni   with   lasagnes,    boiled 

together. 

—  a    la    Princesse ;    with    puree    of    rabbit. 

—  a  la  Reine ;   with  cheese  and  puree  of  chicken. 

—  a     la    Rossini ;     with    puree     of    gooselivers     and 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Sicilienne ;    with    eggplant,    mushrooms    and 

cock's    combs. 

—  Timbale    de    Maccarooni ;    thimble-mould    of    mac- 

carooni. 
•—a  la  Bechamel;   with  white  cream  sauce. 
■ — a  la  Beckedorf;   with  smoked  salmon. 

—  a  la  Bontoux ;   with  truffled  ragout. 

—  a    la    Florentine ;    with   tomatoes. 
Maccaroons — a    pastry,     made    of    kernel    flavoring, 

mostly  almonds  with  white   of  egg. 


./ 


Mace >A97       Mangoea 

Mace — a  spice;  the  network  covering  of  the  nut- 
meg. 

Macedoine — a  medley  of  either  vegetables  or  fruits 
with    sauce    or    syrup. 

Mackerel — Fr.,  Maqueraux;  Ger.,  Makrelen;  a  beau- 
tiful fish,   has  no   scales. 

Madeira — a    wine    of    Madeira. 

Magnum-Bonum — a  plum;  applied  to  big  American 
potato. 

Mahaya — an    Indian    spirit    distilled    from    honey. 

Mahia — an   Arabian   spirit   distilled  from  dates. 

Maids  of  honor — dainty   cheese   cakes. 

Maigre — the  French  term  for  thin  or  poor;  applied 
to    soup    or   sauce,    made    without    meat. 

Maintenon,  a  la — particular  mode  of  preparing 
cutlets  and  making  sauces  for  them. 

Maitre  d'Hotel,  a  la — mostly  applied  to  dishes; 
served  with  butter  which  has  been  mixed  with 
fine   herbs. 

Maizena — a  preparation  of  Indian  corn  in  the 
form   of  fine  flour. 

Malaga — a  Spanish  Avine  of  dark-brown  color,  very 
sweet  and  heavy,  fig-syrup  is  often  used  in  the 
preparation. 

Malakoff — Russian  stomach  elixir. 

Malic-axid — acid  of  many  fruits,  especially  green 
apples. 

Mallard — see  wild   duck. 

Malma — a   North  American  trout,    dolly-warden. 

Malmsey — wine  of  the  Azores ;    sweet. 

Malt — ^Fr.,  Dreche;  Ger.,  Malz;  grain,  chiefly  barley 
which  has  become  sweet  from  convertion  of 
starch  into  sugar;  result  of  insipient  fermen- 
tation. 

Malt-extract — infusion  of  amper  malt;  reduced  with 
honey    or   jelly. 

Malvasia — Italian   wine    of   no   great   repute. 

Mammee-apple — size  of  small  melon,  wild  apricot, 
tropical   America;    sweet   aromatic   odor. 

Mandarin — a  small  kind  of  orange,  supposed  to  be 
of    Chinese    origin. 

Mandoletti — delicious  Italian  sweetmeats,  made 
principally    from    almonds. 

Mangoes — Fr.,  Mangues;  Ger.,  Mangos;  replaces 
the  apple  to  the  Indian,  is  of  exquisite  flavor; 
size  and  shape  of  a  goosse's  egg,  olive  green 
color,    melts    in    the    mouth    with    a    cool    refresh- 


Mango-pickle **  198 Mate 

ing    sweetness;    largish    stone    something   resembl- 
ing   that    of    the    peach. 
Mango-pickle — pickled  with   ginger,    sugar   and   chil- 
lies. 
Mangold-wurzel — a   large    field   beet. 
Mangostan — fruit    of    an    Asiatic    tree ;     size    of    an 

orange;    flavor,    grapes   and   strawberries. 
Manna — dried   exudation   of    a    tree,    genus   fraxinus. 
Mannacroup — a     grannular     preparation     of     wheat 

deprived    of    bran,    childrens    food. 
Manzanilla — light    pale    sherry    with    slightly    bitter 

taste. 
Maple — sugar    and    syrup;     gained    by    tapping    the 

maple    tree    and   reducing   the    juice. 
Marasquino — liqueur    prepared    from    the    kernel    of 

the  marasca   cherry,    at  Zara,   Italy. 
Margarine — an    imitation    butter;     made    of    caulfat 

and    bone    matter. 
Marigolds^-flours    of    this    plant    are   used    to    scent 

cheese. 
Marinade — French  term  for  brine  or  pickle  in  which 

fish,    flesh    or    fowl    is    soaked    previous    to    their 

being   cooked. 
Marjoram — Fr.,  Marjolaine;   Ger.,  Majoran;  used  as 

a   flavoring    in    cookery.  _    ■ 

Marmelade — a  preserve,  made  of  the  pulp  of  fruits, 

originally  made  of  mermeloquince,  orange  marmie- 

lade,    made   of   orange   peel  mostly;    now   popular. 
Marmande — a  low-class  French  brandy. 
Marrow — the   inner  pulp   of  bone. 
Marsala — amper-colored    wine    from    Sicilly. 
Marshmallow — :Fr.,    Guimauve;    Ger.,    Sammetpappel  J 

juice  of  root,   used  in   soft  confectionery;    said  to 

relieve    colds   and    coughs. 
Martinoos — pods    are    used    in    salad,    somewhat    like 

green  peppers. 
Marzipan — marchepane,       massepain;       an       almond 

paste. 
Masata — South      American      spirit,      distilled      from 

bananas. 
Mashing — breaking    up    food    stuffs    to    render    them 

soft  and  digestible. 
Masking — painting  over  or  covering  with  any  thick- 

ish   fluid,    such   as   jam   or   sauce. 
Mastic — the     resin     which     flows     from    the     incised 

bark    of    pistacia-lenticus;    used    in    chewing-gum. 
Mate — see    Paraguay    tea. 


Matelotte *  199 Meng;a,a 

Matelotte,  a  la — sailor's  style;  a  sauce  or  stew; 
prepared  for  and  with  fish;  made  of  wine,  herbs, 
onions,    spices   and   broth. 

Maxixe — a  Brasilian  vegetable,  resembles  cucum- 
ber,  covered  with  thorny  warts. 

May-drink — German  name  for  a   delicious  wine   cup. 

Mayonnaise — a  sauce,  made  of  egg-yolk  and  oil  by 
slowly   mixing   and   frothing.  "" 

Mazagran- — black    coffee ;    served   in    special   glass. 

Mazers — loving  cups   or  pledge   cups. 

Mead — Fr.,  Hydromel;  Ger.,  Meth;  liquor  brewed 
from  honeycombs,  after  honey  has  been  drawn 
away. 

Meagre — Fr.,  Maigre;  large  Mediterannean  fish  of 
immense   size. 

Meal — signifies  ground  corn,  grain  or  peas,  or  a 
repast. 

Meat — Fr.,  Viande;    Ger.,   Fleisch;   flesh-food. 

Medlars — Fr.,  Neflaes;  Ger.,  Mispeln;  fruit  of  ag- 
reable  accidity  which  sets  in  after  the  pulp 
has  begun  to  decay. 

Medoc — French  claret,  produced  in  Gironde  dis- 
trict;   St.   Julien,   Margeaux,    Lafitte. 

Melillot — a    plant    of    the    clover    tribe. 

Melisse,    eau    de — a    liqueur,    made    in    Roumania. 

Melons,  Melonen — eaten  with  fine  sugar  of  with 
salt  and  pepper,  finger  bowl. 

—  Cantaloupe-melon ;    round,    irregular    skin ;    served 

with   sugar  and   teaspoon. 

—  Canadian-melon;     of     great     size,     very     superior, 

like    cantaloupe. 

—  Coulommier-melon;    remarkable    for    its    hardness. 
-! — Market-melon;    smooth   and  almost   spherical. 

—  Musk-melon;     a    kind    of    large    Cantaloupe. 

—  Figari-melon ;    not    larger    then    a    hen's    egg. 

—  Persian-melon;    pear-shaped,    yellow,    very    sweet. 

—  Ivory-melon;   a  water-melon  of  white  flesh;   spoon 

and   sugar. 

—  Water-melon;     of    rosy    flesh    with    black    seeds; 

spoon    and    sugar.      Of    all    melons    those    with 

greenish    white    flesh    are    considered    the    best. 

Menestera — name    for    a    Spanish    stew    or    pottage, 

made   of  vegetables   and  nuddles. 
Menestrone— — a  favourite  Italian  stew  or  soup,  made 

very    much    like    Menesteral. 
Mengau — a  kind  of  gruel,  made  in  Brazil  from  green, 
plantains. 


Menschenfreund *    200  » Mir  in 

Mensclienfreund — a    stomachic    bitter;    prepared    in 

Bussia. 
Menu — Bill  of  Fare. 
Meringues — beaten  white   of  egg  with  castor  sugar, 

set     in     quick-oven,     formed     in     shape     of     half 

moulds. 

—  a  la  Chantilly ;   filled  with  whipped  cream. 

—  Glace ;    filled   with   ice    cream. 

Merissah — a    fermented    drink,    made    from    dates. 

Metheglin — brewed  from  honey  and  water;    ancient, 

Midzu-ame — Japanese  extract  of  barley-malt  and 
rice. 

Milk — Fr.,  Lait;  Ger.,  Milch;  contains  all  the 
elements  for  the  growth  and  maintenance  of  the 
human   body. 

Milk-punch — milk  with  ice,  lemon-juice,  rum  or 
brandy,    shaken,    grated   nutmeg    on    top. 

Milktoast— bowl  filled  with  toast  and  covered  with 
boiling  milk ;  terrapin  plate ;   serve  milk  separate. 

Milkweed — ^used  in  salads,  stems  abound  in  warm- 
tasting,    milky   juice. 

Millet — small  round  seeds  equal  to  rice;  Ger.,  Hirse» 

Mille-feuille — see    cakes. 

Milt — the  soft  roe  of  a  fish. 

Mince-meat — Fr.,  Emincer;  signifies  anything  that 
is  minced   or  chopped  up  finely. 

Mince-pies — served  hot  or  cold  with  fine  sugar ; 
prepared  with  currants,  raisins,  candied  peel, 
ratafia,   cloves,  mace  and  nutmeg. 

Minion-fillets — delicate     small     underfillets. 

Minnows — very  tiny  river  fish;  sometimes  used  for 
white   bait. 

Mint — Fr.,  Menthe;  Ger.,  Pfefifermiinz;  one  of  the 
most  powerful  herbs  used  for  drinks  and  vinegar- 
sauces;  for  lamb. 

—  Creme    de   Menthe;    sweet   ladies   liqueur;    served 

frappe,  _  mostly  ,  on  crushed  ice  with  straws 
in    special   or   sherry   glass. 

Mint-sauce — cold  vinegar  sauce  with  chopped  mint, 
served  with  roast  lamb  or  cold  lamb. 

Minute,  a  la — prepared  very  quickly,  mostly  broiled 
meats   in   thin   slices    or    sautes. 

Mirepoiz — flavoring  used  for  savoury  stews,  con- 
sists of  red  or  white  wine,  stock,  onions,  shallots, 
bay-leaves,    thyme,    garlic,    bacon    and   raw    ham. 

IVIirin — a    Japanese    sweet   liquor. 


Miroton *>201 Mulberrlea 

Miroton — French    for    a    kind    of    dish,    made    up    of 

cold   meats,   now   applied   to   other   dishes   also. 
Miserables — popular   name    for   the   husks   of   cocoa- 
beans;    used   in    concoctions. 
Mites — food   destroyers. 
Mixed-pickles — gherkins,     onions,     cauliflower,     etc., 

mixed,   ciit-up  and  pickled. 
Mocha — strong  coffee. 
Mock — this   term   signifies   an  imitation. 
Mode,    a   la — Francaise;    French    style;    see   beef   a 

la    Mode. 
Moisten — term    means    to    put    upon    meat    fluid    of 

stock  or  broth,  water,  etc.  to  stew. 
Molasses — Fr.,    Melasses;     Ger.,     Melasse;     a    dark 

colored    thick    fluid   which    drains    off    sugar-cane 

in    course   of   its   preparation. 
Mole — delicious     Mexican    ragout;     chopped    turkey 

with    tomatoes    and    peppers. 
Mongol    wine — Asiatic    wine,    made    by    fermenting 

milk;    very    insipid. 
Montglas — French  for  a  preparation  of  meat,  mush- 
rooms,   truffles,    cut    up    in   large   pieces ;    a    kind 

of    big    julienne. 
Moor    fowl — moor     cock    or    moorhen;     red    legged 

ptarmigan. 
Mortadella — an     Italian  -  sausage,     made     of     many 

things  and  eaten  cold. 
Morels — Fr.,  Morilles;  Ger.,  Morcheln;  hollow  mush- 
room. 
Moringa — horseraddish     tree ;     used    as     such     (the 

root    only). 
Moscata — Picmontes  wine. 
Moselle — well-known   German  wine  from  the  grapes 

flourishing  on  the  banks  of  the  stream. 
Moulds — Fr.,   Moule;    Ger.,   Formen;    signifies  forma 

in   tin  or   other  metal   to   give   food  preparations 

shape   and   form. 
Mousse — French  for  froth  or  foam;   in  ices;   almost 

liquid   paste. 
Mousse  of  Virginia  Ham — poached  with  spinach. 
Moxie — a    nerve-food ;    beverage. 
Muflns — puffy    and    warm    rolls    in    round    form, 

mostly   cut   in   two   and   toasted. 
Muguet    des    Bois — see    Asperule    Odorante;    Wald- 

meister. 
Mulberries — Ger.,    Maulbeere;    in    size    and    shape 

somewhat    like   blackberry. 


Mulled -*  202 Mussels 

Mull  or  mulled — signifies  drink  that  has  heen 
heated   by   boiling,    spiced   and   sweetened. 

Mulligatawny  soup — ^Mila-gu-tamur ;  see  soups;  a 
curried    liidian    soup;    rice   and   chicken. 

Muller — vessel,   used  for  mulling. 

Mullet^Fr.,  Mulet;    Ger.,  Meerbarbe. 

Mum — a  very  strong  beer,  made  with  spruce. 

Mush — a  sort  of  porridge,  made  with  Indian  cora 
meal. 

Mushrooms — champignons,  cepes,  morels,  truffles  and; 
many   others. 

Mushrooms  under  glass — broiled  on  toast  with  Mai- 
tre  butter  under  glass  cover;  must  be  served 
with  cover  on  to  guest;  cover  removed  when 
all  the  plates  have  been  put  before  the  guestl 

Musk,  Moschiis— essence  prepared  from  the  con- 
tents of  the  musk-bag  of  the  musk-deer;  power-, 
ful,  warm  aromatic  flavor. 

Musk-mellons — delicious  fruit  of  rosy  flesh;  serve 
with    fine    sugar   and   teaspoon. 

Muskellunge — large  American  pike;  fish  of  the 
great  lakes. 

Mussels — -Fr.,  Moules;  Ger.,  Muscheln;  the  oysters 
of  the  poor;  a  shell-fish  unsurpassed  in  flavor; 
all  saute  mussels ;  served  in  chafing  dish ;  see 
terrapin,    sauces,    clams. 

—  a   la   Bordelaise;   with   onion   sauce;   red  wine. 

—  Bouillie    a    la    Creme ;    boiled   with    cream    sauce. 

—  en'  Brochette;    on    skewers. 

—  a  la  Dieppoise ;  onions,  white  wine,  cream  and 
cayenne    pepper. 

—  a   I'Estouffade;    stewed. 

—  Farcie   a   la   Turque;    boiled,    stuffed  with  onions^, 

and  rice   in  oil,   fennel  raisin. 

—  au   Four ;    baked. 

—  en  Fricasse;    in   white   sauce. 

—  au    Gras ;     stewed    with    bacon    and    mushrooms^ 

thick    sauce. 
-; — a   la  Mariniere;    boiled  with  butter,   herbSj   black 
pepper   and  bread   crumbs. 

—  a  la  Napolitaine;   saute  with   spicesi   onions,  but- 

ter,   egg-yolk   and  lertion-'Juice. 

—  a   la    Poulette;    saute    in   yellow   sauce;    egg-yolk 

and    white    win,e. 

—  a   la   Provencale;    boiled,    saute  with  herbs,   shal- 

lots  and  mushrooms,   parsley,    crumbs. 

—  a  la  Grecque;   mixed  with  rice. 


Mussels "  203 Mutton 

—  a     la     Villeroy;     baked     with     egg-yolks,     bread- 

crumbs  and   vileroy   sauce. 

—  en     Pilau     a     I'Armenienne;     stuffed     with     rice, 

mixed    with    tomatoes    and    pistachios. 
Must — the    juice    of    the    grape    before    fermentation. 
Mustaccioli — ginger  bread,    stuffed  with  fruit  mince, 

glazed    with    chocolate. 
Mustard — Fr.,    Moutarde;    Ger.,    Senf;    seeds   of    the 

mustard     plant    pounded,     boiled    in     vinegar     or 

must;    must-ard. 
Mustard   salad — the  first   sprouting  from  the   seeds, 

are  used  as   salads. 
Mutton — Fr.,    Mouton;    Ger.,    Hammelfleisch. 

—  Roast     mutton     should     always     be     served     with 

red   currant- jelly. 

—  Saddle    of    mutton;    the    filet;    should    be    cut    in 

lengthwise    slices    above    and    one    slice    under- 
neath   the    filet;    is    sometimes    carved    across. 

—  a   la   Belfort;    roasted,   sliced  in  bordure,   soubise 

sauce. 

—  Leg  of  mutton;    is   carved  like  ham. 

" — Animelle     de     mouton;     wedder     (ram's)     stones. 

—  Blanquette     de     mouton ;     ragout     of     mutton     in 

white   sauce. 

—  Carlionnade    de    Mouton    a    la    Bretonne ;    ragout 

of  mutton  with  crushed  white  beans. 

—  Carre  de   mouton ;    fore  quarter. 

—  Caree     de     Mouton    a     la     Servante ;     larded     and 

roasted. 

—  a    la    Soubise;    with   pur^e   of   onions. 

—  Cassolet    a    la    Carcassonnaise ;    roast    with    garlic 

and     chopped    pork,     white     beans     and     onion 
sauce,  baked  with  bread  crumbs. 

—  Chaki-kebabi ;    roast    mutton    on    long    spits. 

—  China-chilo;     ragout     of     mutton     with     piquante 

sauce. 

—  Chips  and  chops;    rips  with   saute    potatoes. 

—  Cotelette    de    mouton;     mutton    chops;     chops    is 

more   used   with  mutton   then   cutlets. 

—  a    I'Africaine;    stuffed    with    egg-plant. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;  dipped  in  butter  and  crumbs,  grilled 

with    vegetables   in    cream    sauce. 
•^  a  I'Avignonnaise;   with  cream  sauce,   crumbs  and 
cheese,    baked. 

—  a  la  Bardou;   with  green  peas  and  chopped  fried 

ham. 


Mutton <  204 Mutton 

-—a    la    Barnsley;    first    boiled    five    minutes,    then 
grilled. 

—  a    la    Bayonnaise ;    with   Bayonne   ham. 

—  a  la  Bechamel;   with  cream  sauce. 

—  a  la  Bignon ;   with  garlic  and  stuffed  potatoes. 

—  a    la    Bohemienne ;    crumbed,    grilled,    brown    to- 

mato  sauce. 

—  Braise  a  la  Financiere ;  brown  Xeres,  wine  sauce» 

livers,   combs,    sweet  breads,    quenelles. 
" —  Braise  a  la  Jardiniere ;   with  young  garden  vege- 
tables. 

—  Braise   a   la   Montgelas ;    with   onions   and  bacon^ 

stuffed  with   fat    liver    and   truffles. 

—  Braise   a   la   Salvandy ;    with  mashed  green  peas, 

—  a  la  Soubise ;  with  white  puree  of  onions. 

—  a  la  Brasseur ;   with  shallots,  parsley  and  lemon- 

juice. 

—  a    la    Bretonne ;    egged    and    crumbed    with    mince 

of   onions   in   cream  and  eggs. 

—  a  la  Chasseur;  with  mashed  potatoes  and  devilled 

sauce. 

—  a   la   Chicoree;   with   endives. 

—  a  la  Choiseul ;   stuffed  with  veal-forcemeat. 

—  a  la  Clamart;  with  mashed  green  peas. 

—  a  la  Clermont ;  with  onions. 

—  a   la   Conti ;    with  mashed   lentils. 

—  a  la  Diplomate ;   with  thick  gravy. 

—  a   la   Dreux ;    larded  with  julienne   of  truffles  and 

tongue,   ragout  of  truffles,  mushrooms  and  fowl 
kidneys. 

—  a    la    Druard;     with    croquette    paste,     crumbed, 

roast,   sauce  Chateaubriand. 

—  a    la    Dubarry ;    with   mashed    artichokes. 

>— a   la   Due   d' Albany;    with   assorted  vegetables. 

—  a  la  Duchesse ;   with  mashed   chestnuts. 

—  a    la    Durcelle;    baked   in   paper    cases. 

—  Grilled  a   la   Maintenon ;    coated  with  mushrooms. 

—  Grille    a    la   maitre    d'hotelj^  with   maitre   d'hotel 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Hongroise ;    with    fine    herbs    and    piquante 

sauce. 

—  a   rindienne;    with   curry   sauce   and  rice. 

—  a  I'ltalienne;   with  nuddles. 

—  a   la   Lyonnaise ;    with   onion   sauce. 

^  a  la  Madras ;   with  pickles   and   curry  sauce. 
-^  a  la   Maintenon ;   with   onion  puree,   potatoes  and 
and    tomato    sauce. 


Mutton  L  205  Muttoa 

—  a  la  Mancelle;   with  mashed  chestnuts. 

—  a  la  Marechale;   crust    baked. 

—  a   la   Marseillaise;    coated  with  mashed  onions. 

—  a   la   Marquise;    with   ham   and  veal  forcemeat. 

—  a    la   Minute;    fried   in   butter. 

—  a   la    Monte   Carlo;    with   green   beans. 

—  a  la   Montgelas;    with  ragout  like  braise. 

—  a   la   Murillo ;    with   button   mushroom   crust. 

—  a     la    Nelson ;     stuffed    with    onion    puree    with 

eggs    and    cheese. 

—  a  la  Nicoise;    roasted  with  puree  of  Lima  beans. 

—  a   la   Nivernaise ;    with   carrots. 

—  en  Papillottes;    in  papers,   baked. 

—  a   la   Paysanne;    with   mashed  horse-beans. 

—  a   la    Perigueux;    with   truffles. 

—  aux    Petites    Racines ;    with    carrots    and    turnips. 
> — a     la     Pompadour;     with     onion     purees,     egged» 

crumbed,   with  vegetables. 

—  a   la   Prince   de   Galle;   with  mashed  turnips. 

—  a    la    Princesse ;    stuffed    with    forcemeat,    truffle- 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Provencale ;    with    onion    puree,    eggs    and 

cheese,    baked. 

—  a    la    Reforme ;    with    reform    sauce. 

—  en    Robe    de    Chambre ;     coated    with    veal    force- 

meat. 

—  a    la    St.    Germain;    with    mashed    green    peas. 

—  a    la    Savary ;     marinaded,  '  fried    in    butter    and 

oil,    artichoke    puree. 

—  a   la    Soubise;    with   puree    of    onions. 

—  a   la    Soubrick;    with   gooselivers   and  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Suedoise;   with  sauce  of  white  wine,   apples> 

horse-raddish   and  mayonnaise. 

—  a  la  Toulousaine;   with  goose  liver,    cream   sauce, 

cheese    and    baked. 

—  a  la  Valois;   stuffed  with  herbs  and  trufBes,  with 

stuffed    olives,    bearnaise    sauce. 

—  a   la   Vatel;    stuffed   with   chicken   forcemeat   and 

truffles,    ragout    financiere. 

—  a    la    Venaison;    like    venison. 

—  a  la  Vicomtesse;  with  thick  sauce  of  ham,  mushi' 

rooms,    egg-yolks   and   stock. 

—  a   la   Zingara ;    with  puree   of  beef  tongue. 

—  Cotes    de    Mouton;    ribs    of    mutton. 

—  Crepinettes   de   mouton;    flat  mutton   sausages. 

—  Double    de    mouton ;    hindquarter    of    mutton. 

—  Eminc^  de  mouton ;  minced  mutton. 


JMutton *206 Mutton 

—  a  I'Auguste;  with  eggs. 

Epavile    de    mouton ;    shoulder   of    miitton. 

—  Braise   a   la  Windsor;    with  vegetables. 

—-a  la  Chevalier;   roast  with  spices  and  mushrooms. 

—  Musette    d'epaule    de    mouton;     stuffed    shoulder 

of   mutton. 

—  Etuvee   de   mouton ;    stewed  mutton. 

—  a    la    Fermiere;    with    carrots,    turnips    and    Lima 

beans. 

—  a    la    Marseillaise ;    with    onions,    garlic,    tomatoes 

and    mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Portugaise ;   with   stuffed  tomatoes  and  rice. 

—  a  la   Solferine ;   with  carrots,   turnips  &  tomatoes. 

—  Filet  mignon  de  mouton,  a  la  Beaufremont ;   small 

filets  with  truffles   and  maccarooni. 

—  a    la   Byron;    with   fried   sheep   kidneys. 

—  a  la  Josephine ;   rolled  up  on  skewers  with  brown 

sauce. 

—  a   la   Marechale;   breaded,   broiled. 

— -  a  la  Ravigotte ;   with  ravigotte  sauce. 
■— Gigot   de   mouton;    leg   of  mutton;    garniture   like 
cutlets. 

—  a   la   Chartres ;   with  glazed  turnips. 

—  a    la    Conde;    with   red   beans. 

—  a    la    Creme   Aigre ;    with   sour   cream. 

—  a    la    Dubouzet ;    stuffed   with    chopped   pork   and 

truffles,    stuffed    potatoes. 

—  a  la   Durand;    braised  with  truffles,   ham   and  an- 

chovies,   2-arniture    Durand    or    Financiere. 

—  Farcie     a     I'Australienne;      stuffed     with     bacon, 

onions    and    roots. 
'—  a   la  Fermiere ;    braised  with  vegetables,    Spanish 
sauce    with    madeire. 

—  a    la    Georgienne;    with    tomatoes    and   peppers. 

—  a   la   Logate;    larded   and  braised. 

- —  a   la   Mexicaine ;    with   black    beans. 

^—  a  la  Princesse  Royale ;  marinaded  in  red  wine, 
larded  with  onions,  truffles,  herbs  and  spices, 
brown    sauce    of    the    marinade. 

■—  a  la  Johnston  Robertson ;  stuffed  with  vege- 
tables   and   puree    of   white    b'eans. 

-— a    la    Rousseau;    roast    with    vegetables. 

'—  a  la  Ruse ;   braised  with  alcohol. 

^—  Granelli ;    wedderstones. 

—  Hachis  de  Mouton  a  I'Aurore;   with  red  topcrust. 

—  a  la  Celestine ;   mutton  hash  in  crust. 


Mutton "  207 Mutton 

—  a   la    Mousquetaire ;    with   mushrooms   and   bread- 

crust. 

—  a    la   Pompadour;    with   glazed  button   artichokes. 

—  a    la    Portugaise;    with    poached    eggs,    tomatoes. 

—  Haricot     de     mouton;     ragout     of     mutton     with 

carrots,    turnips   and   onions  with   stock. 

—  Irish   stew;    ragout  with  stock  and  potatoes. 

—  Kew-mince ;    chopped    cold    leg    of    mutton,    baked 

with    eggs,    port    wine    and    anchovies,    brown, 
sauce. 

—  Kimalibeurrek   a   la    Turque ;   mutton  patties. 

—  Kiymadin   firin  kebabi;    baked  mincemeat  kabob; 

see    kabob. 

—  Langues   de    Mouton;    sheeps   tongues. 

—  Mazagran    de   mouton ;    crust    of   mashed  potatoes 

with  mutton. 

—  Navarin     de     mouton ;     ragout     of     mutton     with 

vegetables  and  brown  sauce. 

—  Noisette    de    mouton;    filets   of   mutton;    garniture 

like  cutlets. 

—  Noix   de    mouton;    leg    (cushion    of   mutton). 

—  Oxford    John;     crusted    mutton    steak. 

—  Pain    de    mouton ;     mutton    mould. 

—  Paquets    de    mouton    a    la    Marseillaise;     sheeps 

fries    with    ham,     bacon,     white    wine,     stewed 
tomato    sauce. 

—  Pieds   de   mouton;    mutton   trotters. 

—  a    la    Chantilly;    with   stuffed  mushrooms. 

—  Poitrine    de    mouton;    breast    of    mutton. 

—  Potrawka  of  mutton ;   mutton  ragout  with  cucum- 

bers. 

—  Quartier  de  mouton;   quarter  of  mutton. 

—  Queeus    de    Mouton;    sheep's    tail. 

—  Ragout    de   mouton;    mutton    ragout. 

—  a    la    Bourgeoise;    with    onions,    carrots,    turnips 

and   potatoes. 

—  a   I'figiptienne;    leg   cut   in   dices   and  marinaded 

with   rice    and   tomato    sauce. 

—  a   la   Grecque;   with  tomatoes,   garlic,   onions   and 

rice. 

—  a   rindienne;    with   curry  and  rice. 

—  a  la  Persane;   with  prunes  and  almonds. 

—  a  I'Allemande;    with    onions   and   potato   pur^e. 

—  a   la   Turque ;    with   pumpkins,    onions   and  beans. 

—  Ratelet    de    meuton;    shoulder    of    mutton. 

—  Ravioles   de   mouton ;    little    turnovers    of    nuddl« 

paste  with  mutton. 


Mutton  ^208  !  Mutton 

—  Rognons    de    mouton ;    mutton    kidneys. 

—  a   la   Grecque ;    sliced   with   bacon   on   skewers. 
"—  a   la   Chinoise ;    half ed,    tomato   sauce,   mushrooms 

and  fried  eggs,  roasted. 

—  a  la  Daube ;  stewed. 

—  a    I'Epicurienne;    halfed,    roast   with   roasted   po- 

tatoes,  pepper   sauce. 
- —  a  la  Fermiere ;  with  button  mushroom  and  thick 

brown    sauce. 
■ —  a  la  Flamande ;  with  brown  sauce  of  onions  and 

madeire. 
■• — a  la  Poele;  braised  in  the  pan. 

—  a    ritalienne;    with   fine   herbs    and   truffles. 

—  a   la    Soubise ;    with   white   pur^e   of   onions. 

- —  a  la  Turbigo ;   with  sausages  and  broiled  ham. 

—  a    la    Vieville ;    with    dices    of    ham   and   madeire 

sauce,   bread   crusts. 

—  Romance   sans   paroles;    warm  up   of  mutton. 

—  Rotie   de   mouton  a   la   Turque ;    roast   mutton  on 

skewers.  ,,  ^  «i 

—  Rouchis  de  mouton ;  f orequarter  broiled. 

" —  Roulade  de  mouton ;   rolled  breast  of  mutton. 
■ —  Rusterie ;    spiced    sheeps    head. 

—  Saucisses  de  mouton  a  la  Turque ;   sausages  with 

milk    and    Cinnamon. 

—  a    la    Persane ;    roast    on    skewers    with    hashed 

cellerie. 
• — Schaschliks  de  mouton  a  la  Tartare;   on  skewers 

with  rice. 
— —  Selle  de  mouton ;    saddle  of  mutton. 

—  a    I'Ambassadrice;    with   truffles. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;   roast  on   skewer  with   carrots,   po- 

tato crusts  and  green  beans. 

—  Braise  a  la  Francaise;   with  jardiniere  garniture. 

—  a    la    Bretonne;    with    mashed    white  .beans    and 

white  wine;   bretonne  sauce. 

—  a   la   Chartreuse ;   with  white   wine ;    cream  sauce 

and  vegetable  timbale. 

—  a  la  Duchesse ;  with  spinach  patties  and  Duchesse 

potatoes. 

—  a   la  Flamande ;   with  boiled  turnips  and   stuffed 

cabbage. 

—  a  la  Piemontaise ;   with  cream  sauce  and  onions. 

—  a   la   Portugaise ;    in   port   wine   marinade. 

—  a  la  Printaniere ;   with  young  vegetables. 

—  a  la   St.   Menehould ;   breaded  and  baked. 
< —  a   la    Sevign6 ;   with   spinach   patties. 


Mutton 209    ' Nudela 

—  a  la  Soubise;   with  white  puree  of  onions. 

—  a   la   Surville ;    with  mashed   artichokes. 

Napoleons — cream    slices,    a    pastry. 

Nasca — an   ambre    colored    Sardinian   wine. 

Nasturtim — Indian  cress ;   water  cress. 

Navarin — signifies    a    mutton    stew   with    vegetables. 

Napolitan    ices — made     in     solid     cakes,     frozen     in 

special  box,  consist  mostly  of  different  ice  creams 

and  ices,   but  may  be  of   one   single  ice. 
Nectar — the  fabled  drink  of  the  mythological  deitis; 

wine    sweetened   with   honey. 
Nectarines — Fr.,   Brugnons;    Ger.,   Pfirsiche;    smooth 

skinned    variety    of    the    peach. 
Needles — used    for    larding    and    trussing. 
Negus — well-known    American    drink;     sherry    with 

hot    water    and    sugar,    lemon-juice,    nutmeg    and 

lemon-peel,    lemonade   glass. 
Nerve    food — a    misnomer;     the    general    health    of 

the  body  is  the  best  nerve  server. 
Nesselrode     pudding — an     iced     pudding,     made     of 

blanched    chestnuts,    egg-yolks    and    vanilla    and 

cream;    flavored   with   maraschino,    mostly    served 

with  whipped  cream. 
Nests — see  bird  nest  soup. 
Nettles — of  stinging  propensities,   when  young,  used 

as   vegetable   and   salad. 
New  Jersey  tea — pleasant,    aromatic   beverage,   from 

the   leaves   of   Ceanotus   Americans. 
Nightcaps — egg-yolk,    spice  and  rum,   boiling  water; 

whipped  egg-froth  on  top ;  lem.  glass. 
Nocken — a    kind    of    dumpling;     mostly    known    as 

noques   and   served   in   soups. 
Nonpareils — colored  sweets,  known  here  as  hundreds 

and    thousands. 
Normandy  pippins — apples   cored,   peeled  and  dried 

under  pressure. 
Normandy    nest — box    constructed    like    refrigerator 

to  keep  heat  in. 
Nougat — a    confection,    made    of    almonds    or    other 

nuts  with  sugar  and  white  of  egg. 
Nouilles  or  nuddles — paste  of   eggs,   flour  and  milk, 

cut  in  thin  long  strips  and  boiled. 
Nudels — the  same  as  nouilles. 

—  Dampfnudels ;    made    of    nndel    paste    with    yeast 
and   mostly  fried   in   oil   with  wine   sauce. 


Noyau 210  » Ombrelle 

Noyau   or   noyeau — the   stone   of   a   fruit;    a   liquor^ 
made    from    the    kernels    of   various   fruit    stones. 
Nuts — Fr.,    Noisettes;    Ger.,   Niisse. 

—  Bladder-nut;     nez-coupe;     Pimpernuss. 

—  Hazel-nut;    Noisette;    Haselnuss. 

—  Filbert ;     noisette    franche ;     Lambertsnuss. 

—  Pea  or  earthnut ;  noisette  de  terre ;   Erdnuss  oder 

Erdmandel. 

—  Walnut;    noix;    Walnuss. 

—  Brazil    or     cream-nut;     noix    d'Amerique;     Para- 

oder  Brasilianische   Nuss. 

—  Areca-nut;    noisette   d'Inde;    Areka-Nuss. 
Cocoa-nut — Kokosnuss. 

Hickory-nut — noix     d'Hikory;     Hykori-Nuss. 

—  Istrian-nut;     noix    d'lstrie;     Istrianer-Nuss. 

—  Large   walnut;    noix   de   jauge;    Grosse   Walnuss. 
- — Soft    shelled   walnut;    noix    de    mesange;    Weich- 

schalige  Walnuss. 
Nutmegs — Fr.,    Muscades;    Ger.,    Muskat-Niisse ;    the 
shelled  stone  of  a  peachlike  fruit. 

Oatmeal — Fr.,  Gruau  d'Avoine;  Ger.,  HafermeM; 
mostly  eaten  as  a  porridge  with  cream  and 
pondered   sugar;    terrapin   plate. 

Ochra   of   Ocra — see    Okra ;    a    slimy   vegetable  pod. 

Octave — a  small  cask  of  wine ;  the  eighth  part  of 
a   pipe. 

Offal — those  parts  of  an  animal  that  are  not  used 
for   food. 

Oil — Fr.,  Huile;  Ger.,  Oel;  a  fluid  grease  extracted 
from    animal,    vegetable    and   mineral    substances. 

Okra — West  Indies;  the  young  green  pods  are  used 
in  soups  and  a  vegetable  soup  or  stew  contain- 
ing  Okra,    is   called   Gubbo   or   Gumbo. 

Olio — from  the  Spanish  olla,  a  pot,  means  a  stew, 
made  in  earthenware  pot ;  made  of  rabbits,  oy- 
sters,   stock   and  white  wine. 

OIItcs — resemble  small  green  plums ;  are  pickled 
in  brine  and  eaten  at  table  to  clean  and  prepare 
the    palate    for    choice    wines. 

Olla-podrlda — a  Spanish  pot-au-feu,  made  of  beef, 
chicken  and   all   sorts  of  vegetables. 

Omeire — a    beverage,    prepared   by   fermenting   milk. 

Ombrelle  d'Ostende — oysters  with  bacon,  baked  ia 
oyster-shell.  .  ■ 


Omelette 211   • Omelette 

Omelette — Fr.,     Omelettes;     Ger.,     Eierkuchen;     the 
following   are   sweet   omelets.      For  other  omelets, 
see   further   down,   Entremets,    Eggs. 

—  a     la     Karlsbadoise ;     thin     cakes     with     sahayon 

sauce. 

—  Celestine;    with    frangipane    pastry    cream. 
• — a    la    Claremond;    with   apple    marmelade. 

—  aux    coings ;     with    quince    marmelade. 

—  aux    Confitures;    with    marmelade. 

—  a    la    Dauphine;    with    apple    marmelade. 

—  a  la  George   Sand;   with  preserved  fruits. 

—  a    la    Moine;    with    apple    marmelade    and    bread- 

crumbs. 
■ — a    I'l     '^oaille;    with    apple    marmelade    and   bread- 
crumbs. 

—  Rissole;     cut-up    omelet. 

—  a  la  Robespiere ;   a  sweet  omelette,  confiture  and 

brandy. 

—  a    la    Royale ;     thin    cakes    with    apricot    marme- 

lade, vanille  sauce. 
-r-Souliie;    puff-omelet. 

—  Souffle    a    I'Ancienne;     with    pondered    macarons. 
- — -a    la    Chasseur;    with    game    puree. 

—  aux    Cynorhodon ;    with    hep-puree. 
Omelette  a  I'Aills — with  garlic. 

—  a   r Algirienne;    with  rice  and  tomato  purSe. 

—  a    rAllemande;    german   pancake. 

—  a  I'Americaine ;   with   dices  of  bacon  &  tomatoes. 

—  aux    Amourettes;    with    veal    marrow. 

—  a   la   Bavaroise;    with   chives   and  ham. 

—  a    la    Bayonnaise ;    with    ham    and    chicken    livers. 

—  a    la    Bearnaise ;    with    mushrooms    and    artichoke 

bottoms. 

—  a   la   Bechamel;   with  white   cream   sauce. 

—  a    la     Boh6mienne;     with    lemon-juice    and    fruit 

sauce. 
- — aux  Bucardes;   with   cockles. 
- — a   la  Bourgeoise;    baked   on  both   sides. 

—  Brouille;    scrambled   omelette. 

—  du  Careme ;   with  crayfish,   oysters  &  mushrooms. 
•^  a  la  Celestine;  cut  in  strips  for  soups,  or  sweets: 

see   above. 

—  aux    Chanterelles;    with   yellow   agaries. 

—  a   la  Charcuti^re ;    with  bacon   and  blood-pudding. 

—  a    la    Chasseur;    with    game    puree. 

—  a    la    Chatelaine ;    with    mushrooms,    truffles    and 

partridge  meat. 


Omelette 212    ^ Omelette 

—  au  Chevreuil;  with  hashed  roe,    (buckvenison). 

—  aux   Ciboules ;    with    chopped    cibbals. 

—  a  la   Ciboulette ;    with   chives. 

—  aux  Courgerons ;  with  slices  of  small  pumpkins. 

—  a  la  Diepoise ;   with  fish,   oyters   and  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Durand ;   with  truffles  and  asparagus  tips. 

—  a  r Vicariate;   red  with  tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Benedectine;    with    stewed   codfish,    trufi&es, 

cream    sauce. 

—  a    I'figiptienne ;    with   quailbreasts    and   truffles. 

—  a  I'Espagnole;   with  chopped  ham,   green  peppers 

and   tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Flamande ;    with   spinach   and   calf's  brains. 

—  a    la    de    Belleoy;    with    eel,    pout    livers    and    an- 

chovie    sauce. 

—  aux    Foies    de    Vollaile;    with    chicken    livers. 

—  a  la  Forestiere;   stuffed  with  morels. 

—  Fourre ;     shirred    omelet. 

—  a    la     Grand-mere ;     with     dices     of    bread,     fried 

in   butter. 

—  a    la    Brillant    Savarin ;    with    chives. 

—  a   la   Hollandaise ;    with   anchovies   and   salmon. 

—  a    rindienne;    with    curried    onions    and    rice.' 

—  a   ritalienne;    with  tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Jardiniere;    with    assorted    vegetables. 

—  a   la   Levure ;    with   yeast. 

—  a  la  Lyonnaise ;  with  cheese  and  chopped  onions. 

—  a   la    Macedoines ;    with   vegetables. 

—  a    la    Matelotte ;    with    anchovies,    salmon   and    to- 

mato   sauce. 

—  a   la   Medicis;    with   ragout   of   field   fares. 

—  a   la   Mexicaine ;   with   shrimps   and  hashed  greett 

peppers. 

—  a    la    Milanaise ;    with    macaroni. 

—  au  Millet ;   with  millet.  - 

—  a   la   minute ;    quickly    done. 

—  a    la   Nantua ;    with   truffles   and   crayfish   tails. 

—  a  la  Yarmouth;    with  bloaters. 

—  a  la   Monime ;    with   game   puree. 

—  a  la  Monselet;    with  truffles   and  game  puree. 

—  a    la    Montgelas;    with    montgelas    garnish. 

—  a    la    Toulousaine;     with    morels    and    slices    of 

barbel. 

—  a  la  Mornay;   with  chicken  meat  and  truffles. 

—  a  la  Bedford;   with  gooselivers. 

—  Omelette   mousseusej    frothed   omelet. 

—  a   la   Noailles ;    of   rice   flout. 


Omelette 213  - Opalt 

—  a    la    Normande;     with    little    fishes    or    ragout 

normand. 

—  a  la   Norvegienne;    with   puree   of  anchovies. 

—  a    la   Parisienne ;    with    truffles,    mushrooms,    shal- 

lots  and  parsley. 

—  a  la  Parmentier;   with  potatoes  in  dices. 

—  a   la  Pascale;    with   salt-pore. 

—  a    la    Paysanne;    with    tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Petite    Russienne ;    with    small    fried    fish. 

—  a  la  Portugaise;   with  tomato   sauce. 

—  de  Prelat;   with  herring  roes,   crayfish   &   truffles^ 

—  a   la    Provencale;    with   onions    and   garlic. 

—  a    la    Raspail ;    with    salt   pore    and    minced    roast 

heef. 

—  a  la  Reforme;   with  truffles,   gherkins  and  tongue„ 

—  a  la  Fermiere;   with  rich  brown  meat  gravy. 

—  a  la   Robert;    with  bacon  and   onions. 

—  a    la    Romaine ;    with    chicken    livers    and   roasted 

larks. 

—  a    la    Rouennaise;    with    puree    of    duck's    livers. 

—  a   la   Russe ;    stuffed  with    caviar   or   stuffed   with 

buckwheat. 

—  Savoureuse ;    savoury    omelette. 

—  a   la    Sicilienne;    with   tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Soubise;  with  puree  of  onions. 

—  a   la    Sportsman ;    with  puree   of   game. 

—  a   la    Suedoise;    with   nettles. 

—  de  Toutes  les  Couleurs;   mixed  with  spinach  and 

tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Turque;    with   rice. 

—  Green   Omelette;    with   lots  of  different  herbs. 

—  a    la    Voyageur;    cold,    with    ham    or    tongue,    ta- 

replace    sandwich. 

—  a  la   Zouave ;   with  herbs,   paprika,   truffles,   mush- 

rooms  and  ham,   with   onion   crusts. 
Onions — Zwiebeln;    oignons. 

—  a    la    Creme ;    with   cream   sauce;    served   in   vege- 

table plate. 

—  a  la  Demi-glace;  with  thick  meat  gravy. 

—  fituvee;    stewed. 

—  en   Matelotte ;    with   matelotte    sauce. 

—  a    la    Poulette ;    with    yellow    egg    sauce. 

—  Puree   a    la   Bretonne;    brown  puree   of   onions. 
— -a  la    Soubise;    white  puree  of   onions. 
Oignonnade — dish   of  onions. 

Oopack — a   kind   of  black   tea. 
Opali — a   large   sea-fish. 


Oranges 214    ' Oysters 

Oranges — Ger.,  Apfelsienen. 

Orangeade — orange-juice ;  syrup  and  boiled  orange- 
peel,   mixed  witli  water. 

Ordinary — counterpart  of  a  "  la  Carte ;  means  a  meal 
charged   at    fixed   price. 

Orgeat — medicinal  barley  water,  flavored  with  lemon 
or  almond,  now  mostly  an  almond  milk  flavored 
to  taste. 

Orlys — see    Horlis. 

Ormers — an  American  shell-fish  with  but  one  shell; 
sea-ears. 

Orris — corruption  of  Irris;  orris  root;  used  as  sub- 
stitute for  violets. 

Ortolans — Ger.,  Fcttammern;  size  of  a  lark;  sing- 
ing bird. 

Orvieto — an  umbrian  wine. 

Oswego — a    preparation    of    corn-flour. 

Ounce — the  15th  part  of  a  pound;  the  20th  part 
of  a  pint. 

Ovens — Fr.,  Fours;   Ger.,  Backofen. 

Ox — -the   male    of   the   beef   providing   beast. 

Ox-pith— the  marrow  taken  from  the  spinal  column. 

Ox-tail — used  for  soups  and  ragouts. 

Oxalic  acid — ^wrongly  styled  salts  of  lemon;  found 
in  sorrel,  rhubarb  and  others. 

Oxford  John — see  mutton. 

Oysters — Fr.,  Huitres;  Ger.,  Austern;  are  in  season 
in  all  months  with  an  "R."  Oysters  should 
be  served  in  a  soup  plate,  filled  with  crushed 
ice,  lemon,  buttered  brown  bread,  crackers,  horse- 
raddish,  tabasco  sauce  or  mignonette ;  see  Ter- 
rapin. 

Oysters  a  la  Baltimore — stewed  with  brandy  and 
Spanish   sauce. 

—  a   la   Bechamel;   with   cream   sauce. 

—  a   la   Bengale;    egg   in   oyster   shell  with  toast. 

—  Braise;    steamed. 

——  en    Capisantis ;    scalloped   oysters. 

—  a    la    Daube ;    stewed. 

■—  a  la  Delmonico ;  with  thick  cream  sauce  with 
toast    in    chafing   dish. 

—  a  la   Diable ;   deviled. 

■—•a  r Alexandre  Dumas;  chives,  parsley  and  shal- 
lots, chopped  in  oil  and  Worchester  sauce, 
with  boiled  oysters. 

—  a    la    Mornay;    with   white    wine,    truffles,    cream 

sauce. 


Oysters 215     Oysters 

—  Frites    a    rAmericaine;     rolled    in    egg-yolk    and 

pounded    crackers,    fried    in    oil;    served    with 
lemon   and   fried   parsley. 

—  Frites    a    la    Hambouryeoise;    rolled    in    egg    and 

zwieback,    fried;     serve    as    before. 

—  Frites  a  la  Provencale;  boiled  in  white  wine. 

—  au   Gratin ;    crust  baked. 

—  Grille      a      I'Americaine;      egged     and     breaded» 

broiled ;    served   on   toast,    drawn   butter. 

—  Grilles    a    la    Bostonienne;     broiled    with    cream 

sauce    and    parsley. 

—  a   la   Philadelphie ;    with  oyster  sauce  and  butter 

toast. 

—  en   Hatelets;    on   skewers. 

—  a    la     Mali ;     chopped    with    onion,     stewed    with 

white  wine  and  spinach;  baked  in  shell. 

—  a     la     Milanaise;     with     maccarooni     and    yellow 

sauce,    baked    with    pounded    crumbs. 

—  a  la  Minute ;    in  champagne. 

—  a  la  Orly;  fried  in  batter. 

—  en   Papilottes ;    baked  in  papers. 

—  a     la     Pommeroy;     boiled    with    madeire,     butte* 

and   cream   sauce. 

—  a    la    Pompadour ;    with    truffles    and   Hollandais* 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Poulette ;    with    white    flour    sauce. 

—  Roties;    roasted. 

—  a    la    Royale;    crust,    baked   with    oyster    patties. 

—  Saute;    tossed   in   butter;    served   in    chafing   dish 

with  toast. 

—  a    la    Shanks :    with    Xeres    wine,    egg-yolks    and 

cream,    chafing    dish,    toast. 

—  a  la  Tartare;   cold  with  mustard  Sauce  and  jelly. 

—  a   la   d'Uxelle;    fricasse   with   truffles,   baked  with, 

crumbs. 

—  a  la  Venitienne;  in  shells  with  herbs  and  crumbs. 

—  a    la    Villeroy;     in    villeroy    sauce    with    crumbs 

and    roasted. 

—  Oyster    a    la    Waldorf;    with    cream,    truffles    and 

mushrooms,    chafing   dish. 
Oysters,     Blue    Point — small    oyster,     mostly    eaten 
raw,    almost    round   rough    shell. 

—  Huitres    des   Marennes;    medium   oyster  of   greea 

color. 

—  Huitres     d'Ostende;     medium     oyster    of     smooth 

shell ;    superior,    smooth   shell   oysters   are   con- 
sidered the  best. 


t)ysters 216  «^ Pancakes 

Huitres  des  mangliers — grow  like  grapes  on  trunks 

of   mangoes    standing   in  water,   very   superior. 
- — Cape  cods;  deep  sea  oyster  of  oval  shape,  medium 
size ;    good   American. 

—  Cotuits ;     American    oyster    of    medium    size,    al- 

most   round    like    Blue    Point,    but    larger. 
»—  Rockaway   oysters ;    inedium,    large,    deep-sea    oy- 
ster  of  long   shape. 

—  Lynnhaven  oysters ;  very  large,  long  shaped  deep- 

sea  oyster;   contains  the   oyster  crabs  in  large 
quantities. 
■—  Malpeque    oysters ;    very    superior    Canadian    oy- 
ster,   taken    from    the    Lawrence    river    basin, 
long  shape,   almost  red  color. 

—  Oysters    a    la    Louise ;     oysters,    mushrooms,    oy- 

ster crabs,  in  bouillon,  no  cream,  chafing  dish. 
Oyster    crabs — see    crabs;    small   crabs   found   living 

in  large  deep-sea  oyster  as  parasites. 
t)yster    plant — Schwarzwurzel,     salsifis    noir;    when 

cooked,   resembles  oysters  in  taste. 
•^  a  la  Menagere ;   cooked  in  butter  sauce. 

—  a  la   Veloute ;    in  white   stock   sauce. 

Pachway — beer  made  in  Bengal  from  grain. 
Paddy — East-Indian   name   for  unhusked  rice. 
Paela — Spanish   dish,    rice,    oil   and   garlic,    peppers, 

tomatoes,  ham  and  fowl,   a  ragout. 
Pain — being  lit.  the  French  for  bread,  but  denoting 

also  a  kind  of  cake  or  cheese  of  meat,  fruit,  or 

vegetables,   etc.;   see  pastry. 
Pake — a    Grecian    liquor,    obtained    from    the    fruit 

of    Arbutus-Uneto. 
Palestine  soup — made  from  Jerusalem  artichokes. 
Palm   oil — obtained   from   the    fruit    of    Elaesis   gul- 

neensis;    palm   butter.    Western   Afrika. 
Palm   wines — fermented   juice   of   sapped  palm. 
Panada — bread  boiled  to  a  pulp;  used  to  give  con- 
sistency   to    forcemeat,    etc. 
Pancakes — Fr.,     Crepes;     Ger.,     Pfannkuchen;     see 

Entremets. 
- — a    I'Americaine;    wheat    flour,    butter    cakes. 
—T  a   I'Anglaise;    with   ale   and   brandy. 

—  a   la   Celestine ;   with   orangCj    cream   and   apricot 

marmelade. 

—  a  la  Danoise ;   with  pur^e  of  chestnuts. 
•—  aux    Framboises ;    with   raspberries. 


Pancakes 217  ■ iPartridges^ 

—  a   la   Francaise;   French   thin  pancake  with  fruit* 

jelly. 

—  au   Gingembre ;    with    ginger. 

—  a    la    Mancelle ;     with    puree    of    chestnuts    and 

maraschino. 

—  au   Mirtilles;    with  bilberries. 

—  a  la  Parisienne;   butter  with  maccaroons,   glazed» 

very   thin. 

—  aux    Pommes    de    Terre;    Kartoffel    Puffer. 

—  a   la    Rossini;    with   apricot   marmelade;    sabayott- 

sauce    with    madeire. 

—  a  la  Royale ;   piled  on   croutons,  meringue. 

—  a    la    Salamanque;    with   puree    of    chestnuts. 

—  Souffles;   puffed,  must  be  served  quick. 

—  a   la    Sherry ;    very   thin   cakes  with   sauce,    made 

in  chafing  dish  before  guest's  eyes  of  baking 
cream,  brandy  and  lemon,  well  turned  in  sauce 
and   rolled  up. 

—  a   la    Doucette ;    same   as   above    a   la    Sherry. 

—  a  la  Suisse;  with  raisins. 

—  a   la  Viennoise;    in   cylindrical  form  with   Corint* 

grapes  and  glazed. 

—  a  la   Zuzette;    thin  pancakes  in   sauce  of  pastry, 

cream  and  brandy,  made  in  chafing  dish; 
soaked    and    rolled    up. 

Pandamus   wine~see    Ava-Fara. 

Pan-dowdy — name  given  to  a  pie  or  pudding,  made 
of  apples  and  bread  without  bottom  crust. 

Pantry — room  used  for  storing  food;  from  Latiiv 
panis-bread. 

Pape — any    soft   food   for  infants. 

Faparetta — piemontaise   wine. 

Papaw — the  milky  juice  of  this  tree  has  the  prop- 
erty   of   making   meat    tender. 

Papboat — sauceboat  or  dish. 

Papillotte — French  for  a  curl  paper;  applied  to 
paper,  used  for  wrapping  cutlets  and  other- 
dainties  for  cooking;  rip  paper  up,  serve  in 
paper. 

Parboil — to   partly  boil. 

Parkin — a   spiced  cake. 

Parr — young  salmon  or  trout.  ' 

Parsley — persille  ;    Petersilie. 

Parsnips — ^Fr.,    Panais;    Ger.,    Pastinaken. 

Partridges — Fr.,  Perdrix;  Ger.,  Kebhiihner;  should 
be  served  with  fried  hominy  and  red  currant 
jelly  when  roast  or  broiled;   at  least  in  America. 


i  21 


Partridges -'  218 Partridges 

—  a  la  Choucroute ;   with  sour  crout. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;    stewed  in   Champagne. 

—  a    la    Beauharnais ;    with    asparagus,    mushrooms 

and    artichokes. 
* —  en    Belle-vue ;    with    truffles    in    jelly. 

—  a   la   Bigarade ;    with   bitter   orange   sauce. 

—  a    la    Bohemienne;    with    Savoy-cabbages. 

—  a    la    Bourgignonne ;    in    Burgundy. 

■ —  a  la  Cardiff ;   stewed,  bacon,  brown  sauce,  capres, 
sausage. 

—  a    la    Castillane ;    with   oil,    garlic    and   raw   ham, 

stewed  in  madeire. 

—  a    la    Chartreuse;    with   vegetables. 

■— r  a   la   Chipolata ;    with   sausage  ragout. 
•*— en  compote ;    stewed  with  onions  and  mushrooms. 
^ —  a  la  Crapaudine ;  spread  out,  breaded  and  broiled. 
' —  a  la  Cussy ;  boned,  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  ragout 

of   foie    gras   with   ham,    braised. 
— -  a  la  Demidoff;  with  sweetbreads  and  truffle  sauce. 

—  a  la  Diable;   devilled. 

—  a     la    Diplomate;     stuffed    with    truffles,     larded, 

roasted,   mushrooms,   olives,   foie  gras;   madeire 
sauce    with    tomatoes. 

—  a  la  d'Escars;  braised  with  truffles,  combs,  sweet 

breads    and   foie   gras. 
-—  a  la  Fermiere ;   with  sausage  in  cabbage,   stewed. 

—  a    la    Glace;    glazed. 

■ —  a   la   Godard ;    with   forcemeat,   foie   gras,   truffles, 
mushrooms   and  quenelles. 

—  a    la    Grecque ;     with    crumbs,     onions,     tomatoes 

and    stock,    braised. 

—  a  ritalienne;    same  as  a  la  Greque. 

—  a  I'Americaine ;    broiled;    served  on  fried  hominy 

with  maitre  butter  and  bacon. 

—  a    la    Lithuanique;    with    batter    of    crumbs    and 

butter,    stewed, 
■i—  a  la  Matignon ;   stuffed  with  forcemeat  and  herbs, 
roast    in   ])aper,    sauce    riche. 

—  a   la   Milanaise;    with   milanaise    sauce. 

•—  a    la    Montgelas ;    stuffed   with   forcemeat,    served 

with  quenelles, 
■—a    la    Pembroke ;    stuffed    and    larded    with    foie 

gras  and  truffle  ragout. 
——  a  la  Perigord ;   with  truffles, 
■i—  a   la   Polonaise ;    with   sour   crout,   puree   of   peas 

and    sausages. 

—  a   la   Pompadour;    with   goose   livers   and  truffles. 


J 


Partridges ■/  219 Pastry 

—  a    la    Princesse    Beatrice ;     larded,    marinaded    in 

sour   wine,    roasted    in   paper. 

—  a   la   Provencale;    with  puree   of   lentils. 

—  a    la    Regence ;    with    border    of    rice    with    force- 

meat   and    truffles,    ragout    of    quenelle,    combs» 
mushrooms   and  fowl   livers. 

—  a  la  Russe ;   breasts  roasted,   sauce  of  ham,   wine» 

rum,   onions  and  sugar. 

—  a    la    Sain   Lorent;    with   brown   herb    sauce. 

—  Sautes    a    la    Diplomate;    fried   breasts    in   border 

of    forcemeat   with    giauce    of   ham    and    truffles. 

—  a   la    Savarin;    stuffed  and  crusted. 

—  a  la  Saxonne;  with  lard  and  wine  leaves,  roasted 

in    biitter    and    cream. 

—  a   la    Sierra   Morena ;    in   oil  with   onions,    carrots» 

celery,    ham,    herbs,    brown    sauce. 

—  a     la     Sybarite :     stuffed     with    snipes    and    force- 

meat,  roasted   on   spit. 

—  a   la   Valenciennes;    with    chorizis    and    salt   pore. 

—  a   la  Viennoise;    egged,   breaded  and  fried. 

—  a    la    Wagram;    stuffed    with    ragout,    roasted    in 

paper,    Spanish    sauce. 

—  a   la    Zingara ;    with   puree    of   tomatoes. 

—  Ailes    de   perdreaux;    pardridge    breasts. 

—  Perdreaux ;    young   pardridge. 

—  Ballotines  de  perdreaux;   balls  of  pardridge  meat. 

—  Cannelous   a   la   Polonaise;    puff-paste   canes,    filled 

with    puree    of    partridge. 

—  Cassolet  a   la   Grimaldi ;    little  patties,   filled  with 

ragout   and   maccarooni. 

—  Baraquille  ;    partridge    pie. 

—  Salmis    de    perdreaux;    brown    partridge    ragout. 

—  Salmis    a   la    d'Artois;    with    oranges. 

• — Salpicon  a  la   Chasseur;    fine  ragout  of  partridge 
with   button   mushrooms. 

—  Supreme    de   perdreaux ;    stuffed  breast   and   wing 

boned. 
Passover     cakes — pastry     unleavened     cakes,     made 

from    matso    or    purified    flour. 
Pastafrolle — light   pastry. 
Paste  and  pastry — Fr.,   Patisserie;   Ger.,  Backwerkj 

see   cakes   and   sweets. 

—  Aboukir;    a   croqueenbouche  pastry. 

—  Abricotines;    abricot-jam  tartelettes. 

—  Africaines ;    round    tarts    of    biscuit    paste,    filled 

with    pastry    cream,    two    together   glazed   with 
vanille. 


JPastry 220 Pastry 

—  Algerienne ;   puff  paste  tartelettes. 

- —  Allumettes ;    matches    of   puff   paste. 
- — Amandines ;    almond    tartelettes. 

—  Amarettes ;    shape  of  big  olive,   paste  of  almonds 

and  white  of  egg,  pistache  garnish. 
"—  Ambroisie ;    round    or    rectangular    cakes    of    am- 

broise     paste     with     apricot     marmelade     and 

Curacao   glaze,   pistache  garniture. 
- —  Amonites ;     punch    biscuit    with    half    frangipane 

cream    and    half    with    marmelade    one    on    top 

of   other,      glazed  with    chocolate. 
»^  Americaines ;    pastry   of   the   form   of   a   rolled-up 

rain-worm. 
Angelines — almond  biscuits  in  tartelette  form,  glazed 

with    pistache,    butter,    snail    form. 
Anneauz    aux   beurre — butter   cracknels,    rings. 
Artolade — ^pear-flawn. 
• —  Artois ;     stuffed    cakes    of    leavy    paste ;    Blatter- 

teigschnitten. 

—  Baba ;    a   very  soft,    spongy  brioche   cake,   soaked 

with    some    liquor,    mostly    rum. 

—  Baisers   ou   meringue   a   la   creme;    kisses,    cream 

meringues. 
' — Barquettes;    little   barches,    boats   of  puff-paste. 
- —  Beignets ;   doughnuts,   crullers. 
' — Bejarde;   big  fruit   cake. 
- —  Beiges ;   tartelettes  of  manque  paste. 

—  Benedictins ;    Spanish  biscuit  paste   with  apricot, 

marmelade    and    lemon,    glazed. 
- —  Berlans ;   rings  of  sugar  paste. 
" —  Berlions ;   rings  of  butter  paste. 

—  Biscotins ;    sugar  rolls. 

—  Biscotts;   Rusks;   Zwiebacke. 

—  Bouchees  ;    patties,    mouthfuls. 
■ —  Brioche ;    Prophetenkuchen. 

—  Cannelons;    puff  paste   canes. 

' —  Carolines ;   leave  paste  cakes,  filled  with  flavored 

butter    cream    and   glazed. 
■ — Choux;    Windbeutel;    cream    cakes. 

—  Chausson ;    halfmoon   shaped   cake   with   apples. 

■ —  Condes ;  rectangular  cakes  of  leave  paste,  f euillet- 

age  with  conde  cream. 
' — Commercys;   little  cakes,  baked  in  moule-a-griffe; 

fluted    moule. 

—  Compiegne ;    oval    glazed   cake   of   water   paste. 

^^ —  Constantines ;    little    patties    filled    with    marme- 
lade  and  pistache   garniture. 


Pastry 221 Pastry 

—  Copeaux;    chips,   shavings;    Spahne. 

—  Corn,    cornet;    Horn. 

—  Cougloff;   Gugelhupf. 

—  Craquelins;    Bretzeln;    cracknels. 

—  Croissants;    Gipfel,    Hornchen;    crescents. 

—  Croquante ;     brittle    cake ;     Krachtorte. 

—  Croqiieenbouche ;    Grachgeback,    Kruste. 

—  Croquets;    brittle    cakes. 

—  Croquignolles;    Nasenstiiber ;    little    cracknels. 

—  Croutes ;    crusts;    Krusten. 

—  Crullers ;    leicht    gedrehte    Pfannkuchen. 

—  Crumpets;    little    cakes    of    muffin    paste;    mostly 

eaten   buttered   and   toasted. 

—  Darioles  ;    cream   moulds. 

—  Dartois ;   stuffed  leave  cake  biscuits. 

—  Dunderfunk ;    pastry   of   soaked  ships-biscuit  with 

syrup. 

—  Emirs ;     cream     tarts,     cream     cuts ;     rectangular 

cakes. 

—  Fanchonettes;    cream    tarts   with   meringue   paste. 

—  Figaros;    fruit   tartelettes   of   short   paste. 

—  Financier;      soaked     savarin     cake,      filled     with. 

strawberry  cream,   glazed  with  marmelade. 

—  Flannel    cakes ;    a    griddle    cake ;    serve   hot   with 

maple-syrup. 

—  Flan,    flawn;    open    tart.,    Fladen. 

■ — Fourre;    puff    paste    with    confiture    jam. 

—  Friands;    Leckerkuchen. 

—  Galettes ;     a     plain     short     cake     not    sweet,     but 

sometimes  sugared  over  the  surface. 

—  Gateau;    cakes;    see   cakes. 

—  Gateau   Mazarin;    baba    cake  with   Kirsch,   maras- 

kino    and    sabayon    sauce. 

—  Gauffres;    Waffeln ;    wafers.  ^ 

—  Gateau    Mont-Kose ;    red    with    strawberry. 
- — Gauffrettes;    small  wafers. 

—  Genoises ;   round  or  rectangular  cakes  of  genois* 

paste. 

—  Gimblettes;    Kringel,    rings. 

—  Gougere ;    cheese   cake. 

—  Grissins;    sticks. 

—  Importes ;    thin    oval   cakes    of  wafer    design. 

—  Johnny  cake ;   cake  of  corn-flour. 

—  Langue     de     chat ;     long     shaped,     biscuit     about 

like    lady's   fingers. 

—  Madeleines ;     cakes     in     moule     a     jgriffe,     fluted 

mould  of  very  soft  cake. 


Pastry 222 Pastry 

—  Marquises ;     biscuit     portugais     paste     in     fluted 

mould,     filled    with    orange,     cream    and    pine- 
apple ;    covered    witk    meringue    paste. 

—  Massepin ;    marzipan,    marchpane. 

—  Meringue ;     a    baking    of    frothed    white    of    egg 

and    sugar,    form    of    half    an    egg,    cut    length- 
wise. 

—  Mirlifcons;   little  tarts,  filled  with  macaroni  froth. 

froth. 

—  Napoleons ;    rectangular   cakes   of  puff  paste  with 

jam   and    custard,    a   la    vanille    au   chocolat. 

—  Narcisses ;    round   cakes,    filled  with   almonds   and 

quince- jelly    in   flour   form. 

—  Nattes;   twists. 

—  Navetes;    little    boats. 

—  Nougats ;    almond    crust. 

—  Oublis    or    plaisirs ;    cornet    wafers. 

—  Palais;   palate   cakes,   made  mostly  of  puff  past*. 

—  Paniers;  baskets. 

—  Palmiers ;    crisp    pastry    of    palm-leare    design. 

—  Pelerins ;     in    form    of    an    eight,     covered    with 

chopped    almonds,    glazed    with    kirsh. 

—  Petits    fours ;     Thee-Geback ;     little    glazed    cakes 

mostly;    generally    served    in    paper    cases. 

—  Pie;    englische    Pastete;    fruit    flawn    with    paste 

covering. 

—  Precieuses ;    tarteletts    filled    with    almond    paste. 

—  Profiteroles ;     very    small    little    round    cakes    of 

pate    a    chou ;    covered  with   marmelade,    glazed, 
filled  with   cream. 

—  Profiteroles    au    chocolat;    litle    profiteroles    piled 

around  whipped  chocolate    cream;   covered  with 
chocolate  sauce. 

—  Quillets;    biscuit   tarts. 

—  Ramequins ;    cheese    tarts. 

—  Roulade ;   rolls   of  biscuit  with  marmelade. 

—  Souffle ;   a  petit  four  of  cake  basis  with  chocolate 

icing,    filled   with    chocolate    custard. 

—  Savarin;    a  kind  of  baba,    soaked  spongy   cake. 

—  Tarte ;    Torte ;    Fruchtkuchen ;    Tart. 

—  Tartelettes ;    Tortchen. 

—  Tresses;    Zopfe. 

—  Vacherin ;    meringue-tart. 

—  Pastilles;    small    lozenges;    or    rolls;    loaves. 
Pastry    creams — another    name    for    eclairs. 

Pasty — a   name    given   to    a    savoury  pie,    in   connec- 
tion   with    game    and    venison. 


Pate  dc  foie  gras 223 Peaches 

Patd  de  foie  gras — paste   of  goose's  fat  livers. 

Pat6  chaud  a  la  ciboulette — patties  of  sausage,  meat 
with  chives,  brown  sauce. 

Paten  paste — paste  that  is  used  to  spread  over  a 
dish;    like   chicken  pie  covering. 

Patties — Fr.,    Pates;    Ger.,    Pasteten, 

Paupiettes — baked  rolls  of  meat  with  force-meat 
inside. 

Paysanne,  a  la — peasant's  style;  see  the  special 
headings    as    soups,    vegetable. 

Peas — Erbsen;  Fr.,  petit  pois;  fresh  green  peas, 
petit  pois  nouveaux ;  gathered  early  in  the  morn- 
ing when  the  moisture  of  the  night  is  still  there. 

—  a     I'Allemande;     with    German    sauce, 

■ — a  I'Ancienne  mode;   with  cream  and  yolk  of  egg. 

—  a   I'Anglaise;    with   fresh  butter. 

—  a  la  Bonne  Femme ;  stewed  in  butter  with  minced 

onions    and   lettuce. 

—  a   la   Bourgeoise ;    with    egg-yolk   and    cream. 

—  en    Casserole;    served    in    the    sauce-pan. 

—  en    Cosse;    boiled    in    the    pods. 

—  a   la  Dyonisienne;   with  carrots,    potatoes,   onions, 

.  chervil. 

—  a  la  Flamande;   boiled  with  potatoes. 

—  a  la    Florentine;    with   puree   of    tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Francaise;   stewed  with  onions,  parsley  and 

lettuce. 

—  a   la    Hollandaise;    with    Dutch   sauce. 

—  a    la    Magdebourgeoise ;     in    butter    with    onions, 

parsley    and    lettuce. 

—  a  la   Menagere,;    with  lettuce  and  onions. 

—  a    la    Mode ;    stewed   in   butter   witTi   parsley. 

—  au    naturel;    boiled   in    saltwater   with    butter. 

—  a    la    Parisienne ;    with    onions,    butter,    salt    and 

sugar. 

—  Saute    a    la    Saxonne ;    fried   with    dried    cod    and 

parsley. 

—  Split    peas ;     shelled    when    old,     dried    and    then 

split;    used    for    puree,    etc. 
Peafowl — Fr.,  Paon;   Ger.,  Pfau. 
Pea-nuts — monkey-nut;  earth-nut,  ground-nut;  grows 

like  peas  in  pods  and  has  much  the  same  flavor; 

is   mostly   eaten  roasted  in  shell. 
Peaches — peches;    Pfirsiche;    variety   of   the   almond 

tribe. 

—  Peche    Calv6 ;    rolled   in   pounded   almond,    served 

on   vanilla  ice  cream. 


Peaches 224 Zander 

—  Peche    Flambe ;     stewed    peaches    kept    in    glass 

bottles ;  served  with  brandy  and  raspberry- 
juice    in    chafing    dish    while    burning. 

—  Brandy    peaches ;     stewed,     tinned,     served    with 

the   brandy   marinade. 

—  Pgche    a    la    Melba ;    served    on    short    cake    and 

vanilla  ice  with  raspberry-juice  and  grated 
almonds. 

—  Peches  a  la  Conde ;    stewed,    served  in  baked  rice 

bordure,  sauce  madeire  with  apricot,  marme- 
lade;    garniture    cherries   and   angelica. 

—  Peches    a    la    Diable ;     flamed    with    kirsh,    nut, 

sugar,    syrup ;    baked,    apricot    sauce. 

Pears — poires,   Birnen, 

Poire  Africaine — hollowed  oat,  filled  with  vanilla 
ice   cream   on  maccaroon  with  chocolate   sauce. 

Poire  Cardinal — with  vanilla  ice  cream  and  rasp- 
berry-juice. 

Poire  Melba — served  on  shortcake,  vanilla  ice,  rasp- 
berry-juice,   grated  almonds. 

Poire  farcie  a  la. 

Pemmican — meat  cut  in  thin  slices,  divested  of  fat, 
dried  in  the  sun;  pounded  and  mixed  with 
melted  fat  and  sometimes  dried  fruits,  com- 
pressed in  cakes,   or  stored  in  bags. 

Pepper — Poivre ;  Pf effer,  white  and  black.  Black 
in  mill.      Has   more   character   then  white. 

—  Jamaica   pepper ;    allspice. 

—  Green  peppers;    the   pods   sliced   and  used   as   an 

adition  to  salads,  or  sauces. 

—  Green     peppers     stuffed;     the     pods     peeled    and 

stuffed  with   forcemeat,    then  baked. 

—  Red  pepper;  paprica  and  cayenne;  the  red  pepper 

pods  are  sometimes  cut-up  and  marinaded 
and  used  as  an  addition  to  salads  and  sauces. 

Peppermint — plant  of  the  mint  tribe;  oil  used  for 
flavoring. 

Pepperpot — a  soup  or  stew  of  pore,  cassareep,  pep- 
percorns,   boiled   for   several  hours. 

Perch — Fr.,   Perche;    Ger.,   Barsch. 

Zander — a    giant   perch   of    Germany. 

—  a  I'Algerienne;   poached  in  white  wine  with  rag- 

out of  lobster,   mushrooms,  oysters. 

—  a    I'Allemande;    baked    with    cheese    and    lemon- 

juice,     eggs. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;    with    Parisienne    potatoes,    butter 

sauce   with   dices    of    lobster. 


Zander 225 Zander 

—  a  la  Berlinoise;   with  brown  butter. 

—  en   Caisse;   in  paper   cases. 

—  a  la   Graham;    larded,   baked  with   almond  sauce. 

—  a   la  Hollandaise;    with   Dutch   sauce;   poached. 

—  a    ritalienne;    with    Italian    sauce. 

—  en   Matelotte;    in  wine   sauce  with   mushrooms. 

—  a    I'Algerienne;    poached    in   white    wine,    onions, 

mushrooms,    roes. 

—  en    Matelotte    a    la    Comachio;    boiled,    ragout    of 

eel    and    truffles. 

—  en    Matelotte    a    la    Richelieu;     boiled    in    white 

wine  with  ragout  richelieu. 

—  a  la   Millevoy;    with   truffle  ragout  in   champagne. 

—  a   la    Normande ;    poached  with   ragout   normande. 

—  a  la   Parisienne;   poached  w.  Parisienne  potatoes. 

—  a   la    Pluche;    with   parsley. 

—  a    la    Polonaise;    stuffed    and    marinaded,    ragout 

of    oysters,    mushrooms    and    crabs. 

—  a    la    Pompadour;    stuffed   and   poached. 

— -a    la    Rntrence;    with   truffle   ragout   a   la    Regence. 

—  a    la    Richelieu;    poached    in    white    wine,    ragout 

of    onions,    truffles,    mushrooms. 

—  a     la     Villeroy;     stuffed,     masked     with     stuffing, 

boiled,    villeroy   sauce. 

—  a    la    Water- suchet;    Dutch   national   dish;    a   fish 

soup  with  butter  sauce. 

—  a   la   Xavier;    with    truffle    ragout. 

—  Fillets  de  perche  a  la  Joinville ;  poached  in  white 

wine   with    forcemeat,    ragout   of    quenelles,    oy- 
sters,    truffles,     crayfish. 

—  a    la    Marechale ;    on    forcemeat,    breaded,    saute, 

ragout    of    quenelles,    oysters,    mushrooms. 

—  eu    Papilotte;    baked    in    paper. 

—  a  la  Printanniere;   with  spring  vegetables. 

—  a   la   Regence;    see   Perche   a   la   Regence. 

—  a  la  Royale ;   on  forcemeat  in  white  wine,   ragout 

of   roes,    crayfish,    mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Villeroy ;    breaded,    fried. 

—  Perche  d'Oree;   a  la  Ladoga;   with  brown   sauce- 

Russe  and  raisins. 
— -Perche    de    Mer;    sea    perch    a    la    Castellan;    with 
crabs,    olives    and    quenelle,    poached. 

—  Sea-perch    Financiere ;     poached    in    white    wine; 

with   roots    and   oysters,    truffles. 

—  a    la    Napolitaine ;    with    capers   and   truffle    sauce. 

—  a  la  Rossmel ;   with  oysters,   crabs,  truffles,  white 

sauce. 


Persegue 226 Pheasants 

—  Persegue ;   perch ;   Barsch. 

■  jPercbell— :Hungar.ian  stew  of  veal  and.  pore,  onions, 

lard,    paprica    on    border    of    rice. 
Perigord  pie — made  of  truffles. 
Periwinkles — Fr.,    Bigorneaux;    a    shell   fish,    round 

and  black  shell,  boiled  in  salt  "w*ater. 
Perry — Fr.,   Poire;   liquor  of  pears;  pear  cider. 
Persicot— a    cordial. 
Persillade — sliced    cold,    boiled    beef,    vinegar    and 

parsley. 
Persimmons — fruit     of     the    Virginian     date     palm; 

rough  and  harsh  taste,   eaten  after  being  frosted 

which   softens   them. 
'Pettitoes — pig's  feet. 
Pheasants — faisans;   Fasanen. 
a    I'Alsatienne;    with    sour    crout. 

—  a   I'Angoumoisinne;    with   chestnut   stuffing. 

—  a    la    Bonne    Femme ;    with    ham    and    onions    in 

—  a   la   Bohemienne;    with    Savoy   cabbages. 

chutney   sauce. 

—  Braise  a  la  Perigeux ;  with  truffles. 

— r  Braise   a    la   Vigneronne ;    with   glazed   chestnuts, 

in  wine  leave. 
• —  a     la    Bresilienne ;     with    sour     crout ;     sausages, 

ragout    or    salmis    of   pheasants. 

—  a   la   Broche;    roasted   on   the   spit. 

—  a    la    Chartreuse ;    with    vegetables. 

--^  a  la   Chasseur;    with  sour  crout  and  sausages. 

—  a    la    Conti ;    with    ragout    of    truffles,    asparagus 

tips,    morels    and    crayfish    tails. 

—  a    la    Dagonet ;    rolls    of    truffle    forcemeat    with 

green    cream   sauce. 

—  a  la   Diable;    devilled. 

' — ■  a     la     Doudeauville ;     roasted     and    stuffed    with 

truffle    and    foie    gras. 
- — 'a   I'Espagnole;    with    Spanish   sauce. 

—  Farcie  a  la  Prince  Orlow ;   stuffed,   cold  in  chaud 

froid. 
a  la  Tartare ;.  with  garnitur  of  skewers  of  lamb, 

bacon    and   ham. 
- — •  a    la    Financiere ;    see    garniture. 
- — •  a  la  Flamande ;  with  cabbages  and  sausages. 
— ■  en   Galantine ;    cold,    stuffed,    boned   in  jelly. 
: —  a   la   Georgienne ;   braised  in  fruits  with  madeire 

and  Spanish  sauce. 

—  a    la    Godard ;    with    Godard   garniture. 


Pheasants 227 Pheasants 

—  a    la    Gourmet ;    with    stuffing    in    madeire ;    roast, 

brown  sauce. 

—  a    ritalienne;    with    macaroni. 

—  a    la    Lucullus;    boned,    stuffed    with    veal    force- 

meat,  braised  with   Champagne. 

—  a    la    Parisienne;    roast    with    truffles,    artichokes, 

truffles,    foie    gras. 

—  a  la  Perigueux;   with  truffle  sauce. 

—  a   la   Chipolata ;    larded  with   sausage   ragout. 

—  a   la   Polonaise ;    with    sour   crout,    pea   puree   and 

sausages. 

—  a    la    Princiere;     in    sour    csout    with    truffles    ia 

Champagne. 

—  a    la    Talleyrand;    pheasant   puree   with   eggs   and 

larded,    with   chicken  breasts. 

—  Rotie;     roasted;     serve    with    bread    crumbs    and 

bread    sauce. 

—  a    la    Royale ;     stuffed    in    madeire    with    salmis, 

sauce   and   truffle. 
- —  a    la    St.    Aliance ;    stuffed   with    game    puree    and 
fresh  truffles. 

—  a   la   Savarin;    stuffed,   roast,   masked  with   snipe 

intestins. 

—  a     la     Silesienne ;     braised    in     sour    crout,     with 

bacon    and    oysters,    brown    sauce. 

—  a    la    Sir    Stafford;     larded,    braised    in    Marsala 

and  roasted,    chutney    sauce, 

—  en   Surprise;    in  red  jelly. 

—  a    la    Vaupaliere ;    hash    with    the    filets    mignon 

and  madeire  sauce. 

—  a  la  Viennoise;   stuffed  with  almonds,  roast,  with 

apples. 

—  a    la    Weimarienne ;    breasts,    roasted   with    Chant' 

pagne. 

—  Aspasie      de      Faisan;      timbale      pattie;      Becher 

Pastete. 

—  Boudins    a    la    Durham ;    sausages    with    madeire 

sauce. 

—  Casserole  au  Ris  a  la  Buffon;   filets  with  truffles 

in  rice  border. 

—  Chaud-froid  of  Pheasant;   jellied  pheasant. 

—  Chaud-froid    a    la    Buloz ;    pheasant    breasts    with 

cock's   combs,   truffles   and  mushrooms   in  jelly. 

—  Chaud-froid    a    la    Moderne ;    jellied    breasts    on 

show   piece. 

—  Cotelettes  de   Faisans   a  la  Richelieu;   breaded  ia 

brown    sauce    with   mushrooms. 


Pheasants 228 Pheasants 

—  Dominicaine   de    Faisans    au   Champagne ;    mousse 

of    pheasants    with    dices    of    meat    in    Cham- 
pagne,   thick    white    sauce,    moulded. 

—  Emince  de  Faisans;   minced  pheasants. 

—  Emince  de   Faisans  a  la  Bourgeoise ;   with  onions 

and  button  mushrooms. 

—  Escaloppe    de    Faisan    a    la    Durham;    collops    of 

pheasants  w.  truffle  sauce  in  forcemeat  border. 

—  a  la   Perigord ;   with  truffles. 

• — Estomac   de   Faisan  a   la   Royalej    with   truffles. 

—  Filets  de  Faisan  en  Bigarure ;  with  tomato  sauce. 

—  Filets  a  la  Chasseur;   breasts  with  puree  of  field 

fare. 

—  Filets   a   la   Chevaliere;   breasts,    stewed  in  white 

wine,   larded. 

—  Filets    a    la    Financiere ;    see    garniture. 

• — Filets  a  la  Perigeux;   with  foie  gras  and  truffles. 

—  Filets     a     la     Gastronome;     jellied     breasts    with 

rings     of     tongue     and    truffles,     stuffed    chest- 
nuts, 
— •  Filets    a    la    Londonderry ;    breasts    with    truffles, 
brown  ragout  of  meat,  mushrooms,   truffles  and 
tongue. 

—  Filets   a  la  Marechale ;    crusted,    baked. 
- — Filets  a  la  Milanaise;   with  nuddles. 

—  a   la   Montglas ;    see   garniture. 

" — Filets    a    la    Parisienne;    with    goose    livers    and 
truffles. 

—  Filets    a    la    Montgolfier;    masked    with    pheasant 

forcemeat,    truffle    sauce. 

—  Filets    a    la    Perigord;    with    truffles. 

—  Filets   a   la   Perigueux ;    with   truffle    sauce. 

—  Filets   a   la   Pompadour ;   breasts   crusted,    in  truf- 

fle  sauce,   puree  of  mushrooms,    sauce   supreme. 
■ —  Filets    a    la    Reine ;    breasts   with    truffles    on   rice 
border;   ragout  of  forcemeat. 

—  Filets    a    la    Richelieu ;    stuffed   with    truffles. 

—  Filets  a  la  Royale ;   with  ragout  of  truffled  goose 

liver  and  quenelle. 

—  Filets  a  la    St.   Menehould;    broiled  with   essence 

of  pheasant. 
-^Filets  au   Supreme;   with  truffles. 

—  Filets  a  la  Toulousaine;  with  Toulouse  garniture. 

—  Filets    a    la    Westmoreland;    truffled   with   hashed 
pheasant. 

—  Supreme  de  Filets  de  Saison;  breasts  with  white 

supreme  sauce. 


Pheasants 229 Pickerels 

—  Supreme   a   la  Jeanette;    jellied  breasts   on    show- 

dish    with    foie    gras;     marked    with    supremo 
sauce. 
• —  Galantine     de     Faisan ;     boned,     stuffed,     braised 
pheasant,    cold. 

—  Galantine    a    la    Royale;    with    truffles. 

■ — Galantine    a    la    Voliere;    with    neck,    wings    and 
tail,    cold    and    stuffed. 

—  Medallions   of    Pheasant;    filets   mignon. 

■ — Pain    de    Faisan    Froid    en    Belle-vue;     pheasant 
mould,    cold   with   jelly. 

—  Pain     de     Faisan     a     la     Lucullus;     mould     with 

stuffed  truffles. 

—  Pelits    Souffles    en   Caisses;   puffs   in   paper   cases. 

—  Puree   de  Faisan   en   Croustade;    in   crusts. 

—  Puree    a    la    Gastronome ;    with    sliced    pheasant, 

tongue   and   truffles. 

—  Puree    a    I'ltalienne;    with   rice. 

—  a  la  Reine;  with  bechamel  sauce. 

• — Puree    a    la    Talleyrand;    with    eggs    and    larded 
chicken    breasts. 

—  Quenelles    a    la    Rothschild ;    with    truffles,    ragout 

of  livers,  truffles  and  combs. 

—  Rouelles    de    Faisans;    round    slices    of    pheasant. 
• — Salmis    de    Faisan;    brown    pheasant    ragout. 

—  Salmis    Albufera;    breasts   with    tongue    and   truf- 

fle   sauce. 

—  Saimis    a    la    Bohemienne ;    in   brown   Xeres    wine 

sauce    with    mushrooms,    roasted    crumbs. 
• — 'Salmis    a    la    Mancelle;    balls    of    forcemeat    with 

truffles,    ragout    with    brown    sauce. 
■ — Salmis   a   la    Royale;    with    forcemeat   moulds. 

—  Saute    de    Faisan    a    la    Hongroise ;    on    forcemeat 

with  madeire  and  brown  sauce,  puree  of  apples. 

—  Faisandeau;    young    pheasant;    a    la    Piemontaise; 

in  rice  border. 

—  Faisan  d'Oree;   gold  pheasant;   best  of  all  pheas- 

ants. 

—  a  la  Regence ;    truffled  with  truffle   sauce, 

—  Faisan  de   Montague;    Auerhahn;    Mountain   cock. 
• — Faisan    Noir;    cocq    des    bois;    Moorhuhn;     black 

game. 
Picalilly — a    pickle    of    different    vegetables    in    mus- 
tard   pickle. 
Pickerels — see  pike. 


Pickle  230      Pike 

'Pickle — liquor  in  which  food  is  soaked  to  give  it 
a  certain  flavor;  or  assist  in  its  preservation, 
marinade  and  brine ;  preserved  vegetables  and 
fruit  are  now  commonly  called  pickles  if  they 
are  preserved  in  highly  spiced  sauces ;  go  well 
with  cold  meat,  should  be  served  in  flat  glass 
dishes    with    small    fork. 

Picnic — a  light  repast,  generally  partaken  of  in 
the  open  air;    see  buffet. 

Pies— Fr.,  Patees,  or  Plane;  Cer.,  Pasteten  oder 
Fladen.      Sometimes  served  with  cheese  or  cream. 

—  Squab    pie ;    mutton    chops,    seasoned   with   layers 

of  apples  and  onions ;  covered  with  short 
crust  in  pie  dish,  baked,  with  gravy  and  mush- 
room  ketchup, 

—  Mince-pie ;    served   hot    or    cold   of   minced   fruits 

and  spices. 

—  Pie     Pisnikoff;     baking     cream     with     pistachios, 

almonds,  etc.,    in    puff-paste. 

Pig's  Cheeks,  Jowl's  or  Faces — dried,  pickled  or 
smoked. 

—  Pig's    Feet  a    la    St.    Menehould;     breaded    and 

broiled,    sometimes    stuffed    and    fried. 

—  Sucking-pig;  a  great  delicacie,  mostly  stuffed 
and    baked    or   roasted. 

—  Milk-pig    a    la    St.    Hilaire ;    stuffed   with   apples, 

roasted,  gravy. 
Pigeons,   Squabs,  Tauben — see  squabs. 
Pigeon-peas — seeds  of  the   ca^anus  indicus. 
Pignolo — an  Italian  wine   of  Ligurla. 
Pike — Brochet;     Hecht,     Pickerel;     see     sauces    and 
garnitures. 

—  a   I'Aigre   Doux;    sour-sweat   ragout   of  pike. 

—  a     I'Allemande;     with    potato    puree     and    horse- 

raddish,  or  choped-up  with  herbs,  poached 
in   white    wine,    capre    sauce. 

—  a    I'Astor;     poached    in    white    wine,     crabs    and 

mushrooms. 

—  a    I'Ancienne:     with    white    sauce,     truffles,     Cor- 

nichons    and    capres. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;   stuffed  with  butter  sauce. 

— ■  a    la     Stettinoise ;     boiled    with    butter    and    an- 
chovies. 

—  a     I'Arlequin;     larded     with    truffles,     cucumbers, 

anchovies  and  carrots,   braised. 

—  a  la  Badoise;   marinaded,   saute  with  sour  creanj 

and   cheese. 


Pike 231 Pike 

—  a  la  Bechamel;  with  cream  sauce. 

—  eu   Bleu;    boiled. 

—  a  la  Bourgeoise;  braised  with  lemon-juice,  onions 

and    spices. 

—  a  la   Brunoise;    with  vegetabte   cul>es. 

• — a  la  Chambord;  larded  with  eel,  truffles  and 
carrots,  Spanish  sauce  with  Champagne,  rag- 
out of  mushrooms,  artichokes,  truffles  and  roes. 

•—a  la  Clermont;  marinaded,  breaded  and  broiled 
with  roes  and  oysters. 

—  au   Court  Bouillon;    with  fish,   liquor. 
- —  a   la   Creme   Aigre ;    with   sour   cream. 

—  a    la    Grecque ;     larded    with    anchovies,     carrots, 

cucumbers    and    truffles,    cream    sauce. 

—  a  la  Dauphin ;   boiled,  brown  butter  sauce. 

—  Depece    a    I'Etuvee;    pulled    and    stewed. 

—  a  la  Dorpat;    stuffed,  poached  with  chopped  eggs, 

parsley,    bread   crumbs,    gravy. 

—  a    I'Egyptienne;    fried   in   oil,    tomato    sauce. 

—  a   I'Elstouflfade  ;    stewed. 

—  fituvee    a    la    Polonaise;    poached    in    white    wine 

with    roots,    raisins. 

—  Farcie  a  la  Bourgeoise;   stuffed,  poached  in  white 

wine. 

—  a    la    Forcade    Laroquette ;    cut-up    with    parsley, 

onions  and  chives,   in  white  wine. 
— au  Four;    baked. 

—  a  la  Fin-de-Siecle ;   poached  in  white  wine,   green 

peppers,    mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Genevoise;   boiled  with  brown  sauce. 

- — a  la  Godard;  poached  with  sweet  breads,  truf- 
fles,  mushrooms,    artichokes,    quenelle. 

—  au    Gratin;    brown    crust,    baked. 

—  Grilles    a    la    St.    Charles;    broiled,    butter    sauce 

and  parsley. 
- —  a  la  Henry  Quatre ;  boiled  in  Champagne,  stuffed. 

—  a   la   Hollandaise;   with  Dutch   sauce,   boiled. 

—  a    la    Hongroise;    with    oyster    sauce,    boiled. 
- — a   rindienne;    with   curry    sauce,   boiled. 

—  a    la    Isaac    Walton;     stuffed    with    oysters,    an- 

chovies,   herbs   and   roes,    saute. 

—  a  ritalienne;  stuffed,  masked  with  stuffing,  baked 

in   wine    with    cheese. 

—  a    la    Juddenne ;     poached    in    white    wine,    roots 

and    herbs,    horse-raddish,    white    sauce. 

—  au  Manteau;   in  crust. 


Pike  232 Pike 

—  a    la    Massena ;    stuffed   with    1)80011    and    salmon, 

poached  with  truffles   and  roes. 

—  a  la   Mode   de  Potsdam;   poached  in  white  wine, 

anchovie   sauce,    capers   and  horse-raddish. 

—  a  la  Montebello ;   stuffed,  poached  in  white  wine, 

quenelles   and  oysters,    curried  sauce, 

—  a    la    Normande ;    stuffed    in    court    bouillon    and 

white    wine,    quenelles,    mushrooms    sauce. 

—  a    la    Parisienne ;     in    slices    with    herb    stuffing, 

masked  with  veal  stuffing,  poached,  ragout  of 
quenelles,  mushroonfe,  crayfish  tails,  lobster 
sauce. 

—  a  la  Puysegur ;  with  cream  sauce  and  mushrooms. 

—  Brochet    pique ;    larded. 

—  a   la   Pluche ;    with  parsley   sauce. 

—  au  Pot  au  Feu ;   in  fire  pot ;    cut-up,  boiled  with 

roots   and  herbs,   brown  sauce. 

—  a   la   Prince   Henry ;    stuffed  with   salmon,   larded 

with  truffles,  boiled  in  wine  and  quenelles, 
brown   sauce,   mushrooms   and  mussels. 

—  a    la    Regence ;    stuffed,    boiled    with    Champagne, 

roots  and  herbs,  oysters,  roes,  tongue,  mush- 
rooms,   white    sauce. 

—  a    la    Russe ;     saute    with    onions,    brown    sauce 

with    capres. 

—  a    la    Sully ;    masked    with    forcemeat,    boiled    in 

wine  and  stock,   ragout  of  roes,   quenelles. 

—  a   la   Tartare;    broiled   with   tartare    sauce,    (cald 

mustard    sauce). 

—  a  la  Villageoise ;    boiled  with  sour  cream. 

—  Boudins    a    I'Allemande;    sausages    with    truffles, 

lobster    sauce,    ragout    of    oysters. 

—  Boudins  a  la  Cardinal ;   sausages  with  fish  ragout, 

lobster  sauce  with  lobster. 

—  a    la    Poniatowsky ;    egged    and    saute,    ragout    of 

roes,    crayfish    tails    and    truffles. 

—  Boudins    a    la    Richelieu ;    sausages   with    truffles, 

white   truffle    sauce. 

—  Boudins    au    Salpicon;    sausages    with   roes,    truf- 

fles  and   mushrooms. 

—  Chartreuse    de    Brochet ;    pike    and    salmon    mari- 

naded,   saute    with    cabbages,    Colbert    sauce. 

—  Coquille    de    Brochet    a    la    Bechamel;     scalloped 

pike    in    shells,    cream    sauce. 

—  Emince   de   Brochet    ;minced   pike. 

—  Filets    de    Brochet    a    I'Amour;     boiled,    tomato, 

cream    sauce. 


Pike 233 Pimentos 

—  Filets    a    la    Charle    Quint ;    saute    in    butter   with 

rice    crust,    truffles   and  mushrooms. 

—  Filets    a    la    Demidoff;    poached   white    wine    and 

half   of    them    baked,    truffles. 

—  Filets    a    la    Mariniere ;    white    sauce   with   herbs, 

poached. 

—  Filets   a   I'Orly;    fried  in  butter. 

—  Filets   Orly  a  I'Anglaise;   fried  in  butter,   tomato 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Polonaise;    poached    in    white    wine,    roots 

and   nuddles,    white    sauce. 

—  Filets     a    la     St.     Menehould;     poached,     masked 

with   herb   force,   roes,    tails,   white   sauce. 

—  Filets    au    Supreme ;    with    white    cream    sauce. 

—  Filets  a  la  Tolousaine;   with  white  truffles  sauce. 

—  Filets  a  la  Varsovienne ;   poached  in  white  wine, 

ragout   of   carrots,    celery    and   nuddles. 

—  Filets    a    la    Vensienne;    poached    in   white    wine, 

ragout  of  tails  and  truffles. 

—  Grenadines     de     Brochet;     thin     slices     of    pike, 

larded  and  braised. 

—  Grenadines     a     la     Russe ;     slices,     larded     with 

cucumbers. 

—  Grenadines    a    la    Woronzow ;     larded    and    truf* 

fled,    poached    in    white    wine,    fish    livers. 

—  Hure  de  Brochet  a  la  Cardinal ;  head  with  force- 

meat,   bacon    and    mushrooms,    etc. 

—  Jack   Pike;    stuffed  and  baked. 

—  Matelotte   de   Brochet;    ragout   in   red  wine. 

—  Matelotte     a     la     Remoise ;     ragout     with     white 

sauce. 

—  Pirogue    de    Brochet;    pastry    filled   with    minced 

pike. 

—  Paupiette  de  Brochet;   thin  sliced,   stuffed,  rolled 

up,    poached. 

—  Quenelles  a   la   Smolensk;   balls  w.  horse-raddish. 

—  Quenelle  a  la  Lyonnaise ;   with  olives  and  mush- 

rooms. 

—  Risolle   de  Brochet;   little  patties  with  forcemeat. 

—  Brocheton ;   pickerel. 

Pikelets — thin  muffins  or  cakes  eaten  buttered  while 
hot. 

Pilau — rice  with  tomatoes  and  broth  with  chopped 
cooked  meat. 

Pilenards— ^gipsy  herring,  sardines;  salted  or  pre- 
served  in  oil,   or   cooked   like   herring. 

Pimentos — see   peppers. 


Pineapples 234 . Plovers  eggs 

Pineapples — Fr.,     Annanas;     fruit     of     plant     with 

rigid   foliage ;    Brazil    and   tropical    climes. 
Pinions — the   parts   of  bird's  wings  which,  hold  the 

long    quill   feathers. 
Pint — a    measure    containing    the    eighth    part    of    a 

gallon. 
Pintails — a  northern  duck. 
Pipers — a  European  fish. 
Piping — squeezing   sugar   or   cream  in   fancy   shapes 

on  pastry  through  a  paper-bag. 
Pippins — Normandy    pippins,    apples. 
Piquant — to  prick   or   sting;    hot   sauces. 
Pistache — Pistachios,    Pistazien;    an    oval    inch   long 

nut    with    but    one    green    seed,    grows    in    large 

bunches,     like     hazelnut,     eaten    dry     or     salted  j 

used   in   coni'ections. 
Pishpash — an   Indian    stew   or   soup;    tough   chicken 

cut-up   with   rice,    soldered   in   crust. 
Pithivier  cake — of  almonds. 
Pizza — a    neapolitan    cake    with    oil,    tomatoes    and 

anchovies.' 
Plaice — Fr.,   Plies;    Ger.,    SchoUen;    large,   flat   fish. 
Plantains — closely    allied    to     bananas,     eaten    raw, 

cooked    or    boiled    and    beaten;    a    wine    is    also 

brewed  from   them. 
Plates^Assiettes ;   Teller. 
Plover — Pluvier:    Regenpf eif er ;    a    la    Liegeoise,    in 

casserole  with  bacon. 

—  Plover's    eggs;     plain    boiled,    used    as    separate 

dishes   or   garnishes. 
Plovers    eggs — oeufs    de    vanneau;    lap -wings    eggs; 
Kiebitzeier. 

—  a    la    Coque ;    boiled   eight   minutes ;    served  with 

Oriental    salt ;    in    salt,    brown   buttered    bread. 

—  a  la  Zsarina ;    on  goose  liver  puree  with  truffles. 

—  a    la    Demidoff :     on     small    paste     moulds    with 

puree  of  chicken. 

—  a     la     Francaise;     on    ragout     of     onions,     cock's 

combs   and  kidneys. 

—  a    rimperiale;    with    cresses    on    stand   of   bread. 

—  a    la    Michelet;     on    salad    of    roe-venison,    string 

beans  and  tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Mornay;     on    patties    filled    with    steamed 

goose  liver  pur§e. 

—  a    la    Mozard ;    on    bread    crust   filled   with   goost 

liver  pur^e. 


Plovers  eggs 235 Porter 

—  a    la    Norvegienne ;    en    fchaud-f roid ;    cold    glazed 

with    supreme    sauce. 

—  a    la    Printanniere ;    on   patties    filled   with    salad 

of    chicken   meat. 

—  a   la    Royale ;    on   patties   filled   with   goose   liver 

and  truffles. 

—  Omelette    a    I'Aurore;    with    cut   tomatoes   inside. 
Pluck — heart,    liver    and    lights    of   an   animal. 
Plums — prunes ;    Pflaumen. 

Plum-cakes — with  no   plums,   hut  with  dried  grapes. 
Plum    pudding — with    no    plums,    mostly    boiled    in 

cloth,    soaked    with    rum,    flamb6;    black    color. 
Poaching — from  pocket;    Fr.,    Pocher;    Ger.,    Sieden; 

eggs    pocketed    in    white;     now    a    slow    cooking 

or  stewing. 
Poele — white    stew;    poeler;    boiling   and    stewing    in 

white   stock;   preserves  white  meat. 
Poivrade    sauce — pepper   sauce. 
Pockeberries — dark    purple    juicy    berries,    to    coloi 

wine,    young    roots,    eaten    like    asparagus. 
Polenta — ^flour    prepared    from    chestnuts,    or    prepa- 
ration  of   Indian   cornmeal. 
Polish   cakes — like   Baba. 
Polka — a     small     cake     stuffed    with     custard,     like 

■netit   four. 
^Pollock — a    kind   of    coarse    codfish. 
>Polonies — Bologna    sausages. 
Pomegrenades — Grenades ;    Granatapf el ;    many   seeds 

in    delicious    red    pulp,    rind    tough   and    leathery, 

brown. 
Pompano — flattened    fish    of    silvery    lustre;     when 

broiled  tastes  of  pickled  walnut. 

—  Broiled   pompano ;    serve   with   maitre  butter    and 

lemons. 
Pony — a    small    liquor   glass. 
Pop   corn — see   Indian   corn. 
Pop-overs    or    puff-overs — small    or    big     souffl6    o£ 

brioche   paste;    served  hot  for  breakfast. 
Porgey — angel   fish. 
Pork — pore;     Schweinefleisch ;     see    beef;    garnishes 

and    sauces. 
Porridge — a    food    made    by    boiling    meal    in   water 

or   milk. 
Port — a   dark  red  or  purple  wine,   made   in   Oporto, 

Spain, 
Porter — mixture    of    ale     and    stout     for    the    hard 

working   porter. 


Porterhouse  steak  236 Potatoes 

Porterhouse    steak — cut    from    the    sirloin    of    beef, 

including    upper    and    under    part. 
Portugaise,   a  la — mostly  with  tomatoes. 
Porto-Rico — a    drink   with    blackberry   brandy,    lime, 

gin  and  a  bottle  of  ginger-ale,   lemonade  glass. 
Possets — beveradge    of    curdled    milk    with    wine    or 

cider. 
Pot-au-feu — beef    broth    in     earthenware    pot     with 

carrots,      turnips,      onions,      leeks ;      serve      with 

quarters  of  toasted  rolls. 
Potage — French  for  soups. 
Potash — a  mineral  salt. 
Potass,  nitrate  of — saltpetre. 
Potatoes — pomme    de    terre ;     Kartoffeln ;    for    sweet 

potatoes    look    at    end    of    this    list. 

—  Sweet  potatoes ;  Tobinambourg ;   tuber  of  a  climb- 

ing plant. 

—  Pommes  a  I'Aigre;   cut  potatoes  in  sour  sauce. 

—  a     I'Allemande;     boiled     in     stock     with     brown 

crumbs   or   brown   onions. 

—  Alfons ;    saute  in  dices,   cream  and  sweet  peppers. 

—  a     I'Americaine;     with     salt     pore,     onions     and 

herring. 

—  a  I'Ancienne;    sliced  raw  with  egg  and  milk. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;    boiled   and   fried   in   butter, 

—  a  I'Anna;   sliced  raw  in  cake,  baked  with  butter; 

15   minutes. 

—  a   la   Barigoule ;   with  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Bechamel ;   with  white  cream  sauce. 

—  au  Beurre  noir ;   with  black  butter. 

—  a   la   Bignon;    with  mutton  mince. 

—  a    la    Bonne    Bouche;    sliced    boiled   potato,    sim- 

mered in  butter  with  shallots,   parsley. 

—  a    la    Bordelaise ;    cut    thin,    fried   with    onions. 

—  en   Boucle ;    spiral    cords    of   potatoes;    fried. 

—  Bouillies;   boiled. 

Potatoes   a   la   Bourgeoise — cut-up,    boiled   in   broth. 

—  a   la   Brabanconne ;    baked   with   shallots,    parsley 

and   cheese. 

—  a  la  Bretonne ;   with  brown  puree  of  onions. 

—  a    la    Karlsruhe ;    with    white    puree    of    onions. 

tongue    and    sausage. 

—  a  la  Cendre;    cooked  in  coal  ashes. 

—  a    la     Chartreuse ;     browned    with    cream    sauce, 

pike    and   pickled    cabbage. 

—  a  la   Chateau;    strips  fried  in  fat, 

—  a   la   Chateau-briand;    raw   olive    shaped,    fried. 


Potatoes 237 Au  four 

—  en  Chemise;    in  jackets. 

—  a   la    Chipolata ;    stuffed   with    sausage     forcemeat. 

—  aux   Choux ;    hashed  with  cabbage. 

—  en   Colorette;    curly   potatoes   fried. 

—  Colombine;    saute    in    dices    with    Spanish    sweet 

peppers. 

—  en    Coquille;    stuffed   and   browned   in   skins. 

—  a    la    Crapaudine ;    sliced   raw   potatoes,    in   layers 

with    cheese    baked. 

—  a   la   Creme;    stewed  in   cream, 

—  a   la    Creme   Aigre ;    with   sour   cream. 

—  Croquette    Villageoise;    mashed,    sausage    shaped, 

breaded,    fried. 

—  a    la    Vapeur;    steamed. 

—  au   Cumin ;    with    caraway    seeds. 

—  a    la    Dauphine;     custards    of    mashed    potatoes 

and  puff  paste. 

—  a   la   Demidoff;    sliced   and  fried. 

—  a  la  Dieppoise;   slices  with  sausage,  fried,  tossed 

with    brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Dijonnaise;    sliced  with  fried  cubes  of  ham 

in   broth. 

—  a  la   Don   Pedro ;   mould   of  mashed  potatoes  and 

hashed    meat. 

—  a  la  Dosne;    moulded,   mashed  potatoes,   baked. 

—  a    la    Duchesse;    cakes    of    mashed    potatoes    with 

eggs ;    browned   in    butter. 

—  a  I'Ecossaise;    par  boiled,   fried  in  oil. 

—  Emiettes;    crumbled    potatoes. 

—  a    I'Espagnole;    with    Spanish    sauce.  -^ 

—  a    I'Est-Prussienne ;     boiled,     stewed    in    a    sweet 

brown   sauce. 
- — -Etuvces;   stewed. 

—  Farcie     a    la    Venitienne ;     stuffed    with     truffles, 

mushrooms    and    tongue. 

—  Farcie    a    la    Viennoise;    boiled,    mashed    in    skin 

with  truffles,    tongue  and  mushrooms,   baked. 

—  a     la     Financiere;     cut-up,     stewed    with     onions, 

thyme    and    marjoram, 

—  Fondantes;    fried   potatoes,    soaked    in   butter,    or 

balls    of    mashed    potatoes,    breaded    and    fried. 

—  a  la   Forestiere;   baked  in   ashes. 

—  au  Four;    baked  in   shell  in  oven. 

—  au    Four    a    I'ltalienne;    baked    with    cheese,    an- 

chovies and  salami. 

—  Follette;    baked    and    stuffed. 

—  au  Four  a  la  Russe;    baked  with   sour  cream. 


Potatoes 238 En  legumes 

—  a   la   Fremeuse;    boiled   with   turnips   and   cream. 

—  a    la    Frankfortoise ;    in    mustard    sauce    with  an- 

ions  and  minced  ham. 
- —  French    style ;    stewed   with   parsley. 

—  Frissees;    curly  potatoes. 

—  Frites;    fried. 

—  Frite   a   la   Copeaux;    curly  ribbons,   fried. 

—  Frite    a    la    Long    Branche ;    cut    in    long    shreds, 

fried   in    lard. 

—  Frite   a   la  Lyonnaise ;   with  onions. 

—  au    Fromage    Chevalier ;     with    sweetened    cheese 

curds. 

—  en    Galettes;    potato    pancake. 

—  a   la    Garfield ;    cut   potatoes,    fried   in   butter. 

—  a   la   Gastronome ;    fried  in  cork  shape. 

—  a   la    Gaufrettes;    in  water   form,    fried. 

—  a  la   Genevoise ;    boiled  in  broth   and  white  wine. 
• —  German    fried ;    fried    in    thick    slices. 

—  a  la  Georgette ;  hollowed  out,  filled  with  salpicon 

of    shrimps. 

—  au    Gratin ;     brown    baked    potatoes    of    mashed 

potatoes. 

—  au   Gratin ;    brown   baked,    of   creamed   or  mashed 

potatoes    wiih    cheese. 

—  a  la  Hanovrienne;   boiled  with  stock  and  butter. 
■ — Hashed     brown;     hashed    cream,     potatoes    fried 

brown    in    saute-pan. 
-r-  a     la     Hollandaise ;     boiled     whole,     soaked    with 
butter. 

—  a    la    Hongroise ;    boiled,    fried   with    onions    and 

baked. 

—  Imperiale ;    saute,   baked  with  mollasses   and   ap- 

ples. 

—  a    rindienne;    curried  with   rice. 

—  a    rirlandaise ;    boiled    with    mutton    and    onions. 
— ^  a   ritalienne;    mashed,    baked   with    crumbs,    eggs 

and   froth. 
■ — -a    la    Jackson;    mashed    with    anchovies. 

—  au   Jambon ;    moulded  with   ham. 

—  a   la   Julienne ;    straws,    fried. 
• —  au    Jus ;    with    meat    gravy. 

—  Kertedes ;    balls,    crusted  with   cheese. 

— -Labskaus;     with    onions    and    hashed    salt    pork; 
seamen's  fare. 

—  a   la   Lorette ;    small   carrots   of  mashed  potatoes, 

fried. 
- — -en  Legumes;   mashed  with  stock. 


Potatoes 239 Aux  poires 

—  Loulou ;   fancy  cut  and  fried. 

—  a  la  Lyonnaise;   cold  boiled  potatoes,   saut6  with 

onions   and   parsley. 

—  a   la   Macaire;    baked,    mashed  and  baked   in  th« 

oven.  , 

—  a   la   Maire;    raw,    sliced,   parboiled,   in    creanu 

—  a   la  Marie;    the  same  as   Maire. 

—  a   la   Maitre   d'Hotel;    boiled  with   maitre  butter. 

—  a    la    Mantaise ;    mashed    with    white    sauce    and 

fried  bread   crumbs. 

—  a  la   Marechale ;   mahed  with   cheese,   baked. 

— •  a  la  Mariniere ;  with  onions,  juniper  and  mustard, 

—  a  la  Marjolaine ;   boiled,  saute,  with  brown  sauce 

and  marjoram. 

—  en   Marrons;    rissole   like   chestnuts. 

—  Sliced  Massena ;   with  madeire  in  moulds ;   chest- 

nut   puree,    sliced. 

—  a   la   Milaine ;   with   trufiBes  and  tongue   in  cream 

sauce. 

—  a   la   Militaire ;    breaded   and   fried   balls   in   tent 

shape. 

—  a  la  Berchtesgaden ;    saute   in  onions   and  cream. 

—  a    la    Figaro ;    mould    with    herring,    tongue    and 

ham. 

—  a    la    Monaco ;    raw    sliced,    parboiled,    fried   with 

parsley. 

—  a    la    Monselet;    raw,    sliced;    saute   with    truffles 

and    mushrooms. 

—  au  Naturel;    boiled  in   salt  water. 

—  a   la   Navaraise;    parboiled  in  large   blocks,   fried 

in   oil. 

—  a  la   Neige;   boiled   and  grated. 

—  a   la   Normande;    raw,    saute   in   butter. 

—  a  la   Nostiz ;    croquette  with   crayfish  butter. 

—  Nouvelles;     new    potatoes;    Bermuda    potatoes. 

—  O'Brien;     saute     in    dices    with     Spanish     sweel 

peppers,     carrots    and    bacon. 

—  a  la  Parisienne ;  boiled  or  fried  in  hazelnut  shapa 

—  a  la  Palestine;   balls   of  mashed  potatoes,   bread- 

ed   and    fried. 

—  a   la   Paysanne ;    hashed   cream   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Pelerine ;    with   milk    and   onions. 

—  a   la   Perigourdine ;   with   sliced   truffles. 

— ■  a  la  Persillade :    with  melted  butter,   parsley  and 
lemon,   stewed. 

—  a   la   Poeie;    saut6   or  fried. 
■ — aux   Poires;    with  pears. 


Potatoes 240 A  la  Spahi 

—  a    la    Polonaise ;    with    butter    sauce    and    bread 

crumbs,    stewed. 

—  a  la  Pont  Neuf ;   fried  in  thick  slices, 

—  a     la     Portugaise;     with     tomato     sauce;     boiled 

chateau  potatoes. 

—  a  la  Poulette ;   in  a  white  sauce. 

—  a   la   Princesse ;    balls    of  mashed  potatoes,   fried. 

—  a  la  Provencale ;   rectangular  slices ;    saute  in  oil 

with   parsley. 

—  a  la  Piickler;   in  a   sour  brown  sauce. 

—  a  la  Pyramid;  baked  piramyd  of  mashed  potatoes 

—  a   la   Quelin ;    saute. 

—  a    la    Reine    Margot ;    balls    of    mashed    potatoes, 

fried   with   hashed   meat. 

—  a  la  Reitz ;  dices  saute  of  boiled  potatoes. 

—  a    la    Reid;    saute    in    dices    with    Spanish    sweet 

peppers. 

—  Rissolees;    cut  in  small  rounds,   browned  in  but- 

ter. 

—  en    Robe   de    Chambre;    in   their   jackets. 

—  a   la   Robert ;    with  brown   onions   sauce. 
■ — •  Rotie ;    roasted. 

—  a    la    Rouennaise ;    balls,    dipped    in    butter    and 

fried. 

—  a    la    Russe ;    with    sour    cream. 

—  a  la   Sarah ;    cork   screw  shaped  and  fried. 

—  a   la    Saratoga ;    chips   fried. 

—  saute  a  la  Hambourgeoise ;   tossed  in  butter  with 

eggs. 

—  Saute;    tossed   in   butter;    generally   called  fried; 

there  is  no  exact  word. 
■ — •  Saute    a    la    Lyonnaise ;    boiled    potatoes,    tossed 
with   minced    onions. 

—  a    la    Savoyarde ;    with    grated    cheese,    egg    and 

milk. 
• —  Scalloped;    in    cream    with    ham. 

—  a  la  Semillasso ;   with  chives,  parsley  and  onions, 

stewed. 

—  a   la    Serpentine;    fried   spiral   cords   of   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Souabe ;    quartered   with   fried    onions. 

—  a  la  Soubise ;  with  white  puree  of  onions,  brown- 

ed, baked. 
- — ■  Souffles ;    fried  twice  in  oil,   blown  up. 

—  Souffle    en   robe    de    Chambre ;    stuffed,    baked    in 

skin. 

—  a    la    Spahi;    boiled,    sliced,    saute    with    onions^ 

with  stock,   egg-yolk  and  mustard. 


Potatoes 241 Crepes 

—  a    la    Strassbourgeoise ;    baked   with   herring    and 

cream. 

—  a  la   Suedoise;   with   supreme   sauce. 
a    la    Suisse;    with    herbs    and   bacon. 

—  en    Surprise;    baked    filled    with    broiled    ham. 

—  a    la    Suzette;     Suzon,     oval    shaped,    filled    with 

tongue,    chicken    meat,    truffles,    mushrooms. 

a    la    Sherry;    baked    whole,    mashed,    stuffed    in 

skin,   baked  again. 

—  a    la    Tabatiere;    baked,    filled   with    mashed    po- 

tatoes   and    egg-yolks. 

—  au   Torchons ;    steamed. 

-y  Tournees ;    cut    into    various    shapes. 
- — a  la  Turque ;   with  Turkish  rice. 
■ — a     la     Tyrolienne;     stewed     with     cream,     fried, 
butter,    sprinkled    with    cheese. 

—  a  la  d'Uxelles;  boiled,  sliced,   coated  with  uxelle, 

breaded,    baked. 

—  a  la  Vauban;   cut  in  dices,  fried  in  butter. 

—  a   la   Vaudoise;    moulds   with    cheese   baked. 

—  a     la     Vegetarienne ;     with    onions,     parsley     and 

black   butter. 
- — a    la   Vermicelle;    in   the    shape    of    nuddles. 

—  Verte;    with   parsley    and    spinach. 

• — a    la    Victoria;    boat    shaped    with    maitre    butter. 
• — a  la  Viennoise;    boiled  in  slices  with  butter   and 

caraway   seeds. 
a  la  Villageoise;   hashed   oream  potatoes. 

—  a  la  Voisine;    sliced  with  grated  cheese  in  silver 

pane. 

—  a   la   Waldorf;    cut   in   long  ribbon   and  fried. 

—  a   la   Westphalienne;    grated  with   eggs,    fried   in 

small    heaps. 

—  a    la    Woerlitz ;    small    cakes    of   mashed   potatoes 

with    cheese    and  ^crayfish    butter. 

—  a  la  Levure ;   with  yeast. 

—  Blinis    de    Pommes    de    Terre;    small    cakes    with 

sour  cream,  caviar  and  eggs. 

—  Bordure  de  Pommes  de  Terre ;   border  of  mashed 

potatoes. 

—  Boulette  de  Pommes  de  Terre;   potato  balls. 

—  Brioches;    buns. 

—  Chartreuse    de    p.    de    Terre ;     mould    of    potato 

sal&d    in    jelly. 

—  Cotelette  de  p.  te  Terre;   cutlet    shaped  potatoes. 

—  Crepes    de   p.    de    Terre ;    small   potato    pancakes. 


Potatoes 242 Ponnd 

—  Diablotins    de   p.    de    Terre ;    devilled   balls   with 

fine  herbs. 

—  Gimblette   de   p.    de   Terre ;    potato    cracknels. 

—  Hashis   de   p.    de    Terre ;    hashed   cream  potatoes. 

—  Jetons  de  p.   de  Terre ;   small  round  slices,  fried. 

—  Kedgree ;    Indian    curry    ragout. 

— •  Medallions ;    baked  puree,    cut   in   round   slices. 
— ''  Pain  de  p.  de   Terre ;   with  onions  and  bacon  in 
mould.  . 

—  Puree    Parmentier ;    potato    puree. 

—  Puree    a    I'Anglaise;    with    cream,    browned. 

—  a   la   Bourgeoise ;    with   butter   and  milk. 

—  Puree    a     la    Mantaise ;     with    white    sauce    and 

fried    crumbs. 

—  a  la  Marie ;   with  cream  and  butter. 

—  Quenelles  de  Pomme  de  Terre ;  balls,  dumplings^ 

Klosse. 

—  Ramequins ;      moulds     of     sliced     potatoes     with; 

grated    cheese,    baked. 

—  Rocher    de    Pomme    de    Terre;    rock    of    mashed 

potatoes. 

—  SouflEles ;   puff  of  mashed  potatoes    or  twice  fried 

potatoes  in  long  oval  shape. 

—  Timbale    de    Pommes    de    Terre ;    thimble    mould. 

—  Batates ;     sweet    potatoes ;     a    la     Caroline,    with 

butter    sauce. 

—  a  I'Espagnole;    sliced  with  crumbs,   saute. 

—  Grilles;     broiled;     a     la     Richemond;     parboiled, 

fried  in  butter. 

—  a    la    Louisiannaise ;    saute    with    mollasses    and 

baked. 

—  a   la   Maryland ;    broiled  in   slices  with  layers  of 

broiled  apples. 

—  a  la  Sarah  Bernhard;  corksrew  shaped  and  fried. 
Potheen — illicitly    distilled    whiskey. 

Pot-herbs — herbs  boiled  for  food;   selection  suitable 

to   flavor   soup. 
Pot-pourri — ragout    of    different    meats,    vegetables 

and  other  things. 
Potted — caned  or  preserved. 

Pottle — basket   or   small   vessel   for  holding  fruit. 
Poulardes — young     fo^vvls     specially     fattened;     the 

female   of   the    capon;    see    fowl. 
Poulette— a   hen  fowl;    a   standard   sauce. 
Poultry — Fr.,    VoUaille;    Ger.,    Gefliigel. 
Pound — to  bruise  or  pulverise;  a  weight,  16  ounees.- 


Prairie  lien 243 Puddings 

Prairie  hen  or  chicken — an  American  grouse;  served 
underdone;    jelly,    hominy,    accordingly. 

Pralines — sweets  made  with  burned  sugar,  such 
as    almonds. 

Prawns — Crevette;   Flohkrebs. 

Prickly  pears — fruit  of  the  cactus  opuntia ;  remove 
skin,  sliced,  sifted  sugar  with  brandy  and 
strained    juice    of    orange. 

Primrose — flowers  of  spring  plant;  allied  to  cow- 
slip. 

ProfiteroUes — small  puff  pastry;  filled  with  cream, 
piled  in  pyramid  with   sauces. 

Proof — spirit ;    alcohol. 

Prosanico — Italian   wine   from   Umbria. 

Provencale — as  made  in  Provence ;  sauces  and 
other    kinds   of    cookery. 

Prunes — Pruneaux ;     Pflaumen. 

Prunelets — a  liquor,  made  from  sloes  or  German 
black    plum. 

Ptarmigan — a    kind    of    grouse ;     serve    like    grouse. 

Pouchero — the    Spanish    pot-au-feu. 

Puddings — dishes  of  no  definite  appelatlon ;  food 
of  soft  or  moderately  hard  consistency,  variously 
made;  look  up  spec.  American  puddings  further 
down. 

—  a   I'Adelhaide;    orange  pudding. 

—  a    I'Ambassadrice;    chestnut   pudding   w.    biscuits. 

—  a  la   Royale ;    pineapple   pudding. 

—  a      I'Arlequine;       abricot      marmelade,       whipped 

cream,    almond,    milk,    maraskino. 

—  a     I'Armenienne;     biscuits     with     apples,     pine- 

apples, meringues. 
^- a     la     Boissy;     cornmeal    with     currants,     fruits, 
raspberry    syrup. 

—  Cabinet;     biscuits    with    raisins,     jelly,     custard, 

maraskino. 

—  au   Caramel ;    of  burned  sugar. 

—  a   la   Careme;    green   almonds,    raisins,   pistachios, 

maraskino,   custard,  biscuits,  fruits. 

—  a   la   Castillane ;    chestnut  pudding. 

—  a    la    Reine ;     with    custard,    vanille    cream,    pis- 

tachio   cream,    meringues,    cherries. 

—  a  la  Cowley ;  with  cream,  custard. 

—  a  la  Creole :   with  rice,   cream,   custard,  bannanns, 

raisins,    pistachios. 
-p-  a    la    Dalmate ;    with    fruits,    orange-jelly,    cream, 
custard,    maraskino,    biscuits. 


Puddings 244 A  la  Polonaise 

—  a  la  Diaz ;   cold  mm,   pudding-. 

—  a  la  Diplomate;   with  fruits,  wine-jelly,   custards, 

biscuits. 

—  a    la    Duchesse ;    biscuit    ribbons    in    cream,    cus- 

tard,   maraskino    jelly,    apricot    sauce. 

—  aux    Eglantines ;    hep-pudding. 

—  a  la  Ermande ;    cold   almond  pudding. 

—  de   Fecule ;    corn   starch. 

—  a   la   Fontainebleau;    Curacao   pudding  with   salp- 

icon   of  fruits. 

—  a   la  Parisienne ;    Parisian   strawberry  pudding. 

—  a   la   Pahlen ;    with   fruits   and  almond  biscuits. 
— -a  la  Girot;    jelly,   biscuits,   fruits,   cream,,  custard. 

—  Glace ;    iced    pudding. 

—  a  la   Gladstone ;    finger  biscuits,   pears,    eggs,    cus- 

tard,    Xeres    wine. 

—  a     la     Harrison;     jelly,     pistache,     blancmanger, 

maccaroons   in   kirsh. 

—  a   la   Herisson ;    hedge-hog   of    almond  pudding. 

—  a  I'Heritier;   chocolate  pudding  with  chestnuts. 

—  d'Hiver;   frozen  with  jelly  of  apples  and  stewed 

apples,  rice. 

—  a    la    Hollandaise;    chocolate    with    jelly    and    al- 

monds,   biscuits    and    maccaroons. 
— -a   rimperatrice ;    jelly   and  fruits,    cream,    custard 
with   madeire. 

—  a    rimperiale;    arrack,    cream    pudding. 

—  a   la   Indoustane ;    souffle   pudding  with    cocoa-nut. 

—  a   ritalienne;    chestnut    cream   pudding. 

—  a     la     Jubilante ;     strawberry     marmelade,     cream 

and    fruits. 

—  a  la  Lafayette ;   meringues,   cream  custard,   straw- 

berries,  pistachios. 

—  a  la  Lola  Monter;   souffle  pudding  with  chocolate. 

—  a    la    Malakoff ;    pudding   with    cream   puffs. 

—  a   la  Marie ;    meringhe   pudding. 

—  a    la     Ministerielle ;     with    cherries,     cream,     cus- 

tard. 

—  a  la  Neige;   lemon-sponge,   wine  jelly. 

—  a    la    d' Orleans;    pineapple    pudding   w'ith    r<*isins 

and  biscuits. 

—  a    la    Palermitaine;    puff-paste,    jelly,    marmelade 

with  ice   cream. 

—  a    la     Parisienne;     orange-jelly    with    fruits    and 

biscuits. 

—  a    la    Polonaise;     lemon,     wine    froth,     jelly    and 

biscuits. 


Puddings 245 Puddings-frozen 

—  a    la    Pompadour;     kirsh,    jelly,     cream,     custard, 

fruits. 

—  a  la  Pore  Epic;  rice  pudding  stuck  with  shredded 

almonds. 
• — a    la    Princesse;    cream    custard,    apricot    marme- 
lade. 

—  a    la    Princiere;     jelly    with    raisins    and    fruits, 

coffee,    cream,    chestnuts    and    biscuits. 

—  a    la    Reine    Margot;     meringues    with    custards, 

strawberries. 

—  a  la  Rennaisance;   with  various  fruits. 

—  a     la     Richelieu;     prune     pudding     with     vanilla 

cream. 

—  a     la     Airolo ;     with     almond    blancmanger,     milk 

and    kirsh. 

—  a   la   Bearnaise;    of   rice  with   maraschino. 

—  a    la    Georgienne;    with    almond    milk,    pineapples 

and   rice. 

—  a    la    Grecque;    with    rice    and    cinnamon. 

—  a    rimperiale;    with    rice    and    fruits. 

—  de    Riz    a    I'ltalienne;    with    rice    and    fruits. 

—  de   Riz    a   la    Maltaise;    with   whipped    cream   and 

oranges. 

—  a    la    Rochow;    rice   with    orange-juice    and   whit© 

wine ;    fruits. 

—  de   Riz    a    la    Saxonne;    rice    with    vanille    cream 

and  jelly. 

—  de    Riz     a     la     Suedoise ;     rice    with     cream    and 

maraskino,    white    wine    and    apples. 

—  a  la  Trautmansdorf ;   rice  with  apples,  maraskino, 

raspberry     sauce. 

—  de  Riz  a  la   Turque;   rice  with  raisins. 

—  a    la    Valois ;     cake    slices    with    dates,    annanas, 

cream    custard,    hazelnuts. 

—  a  la  Westerland;    grits  pudding  with   cream. 

—  a    la    Zingara ;    biscuits    with    wine    and    brandy, 

cream     custard,     maraskint». 
Puddings — frozen;     al'Adelhaide;     orange     pudding; 
frozen. 

—  a    I'Albufera;    vanille    cream,    maraskino   biscuits» 

apricot    marmelade. 

—  a    I'Ambassadrice;     chestnut    pudding;     frozen. 
, —  a    I'Armenienne;    as    above. 

—  a    la    Castillane ;    with    rice,    vanille    cream    and 

annanas. 

—  a  la   Cavour;   with  rice,    cream   custard  and  rum. 

—  a    la    Chancelliere ;    vaniljc    cream    and    biscuits^ 


Puddings-frozen 246 Puddings-frozen 

• —  a  la    Chateau    Briand ;    almond    cream,    annanas, 

'■"  maraskino,    biscuits. 

—  a  la    Chatelaine ;    pear  pudding   with    Champagne. 
■^'a  la    Cleveland;    with    vanille    cream,    maraskino, 

cream    and    chestnuts. 

•^— a  la  Diplomate ;  with  raisins,  huiscuits  and  cus- 
tard. 

-^  a  la  Duchesse ;  pears,  annanas  with  Champagne 
punch. 

—  a    la    Fleury ;    apricot,    almond,    milk    and    kirsh, 

fruits  and  biscuits. 
-^  a    la    Fontainebleau;     Curacao    with    salpicon    of 

fruits. 
—7- a   la   Heloise;    cherries   with   whipped   cream   and 

—  egg-custard. 

—  a  la  Joinville ;  iced  pear  pudding  with  pineapples. 
•—  a    la    Magenta ;    apricot    marmelade    with    almond 

milk,    fruits    and   maraskino    jelly. 

—  a    la   Marguerite;    mousse    d'oyange,    annanas   and 

kirsh,    ice    cream. 
— -  a    la    Marquise ;    pear    puree    with    annanas    and 

Champagne. 
" — a   la   Medicis;    with   chocolate. 
- — a     la     Metternich;     pistachios,     almonds,     vanille, 

raisins,    apricots,   maraskino. 

—  a    la    Montmorency;     with    caramel    and    almond 
'  cream,    pistachios    and    maccaroons,    kirsh. 

— -  a    la    Nesselrode ;    chestnut   pudding, 
"i— a    la    d' Orleans;    vanille   with   fruits    and   macca- 
roons. 

—  a     la    Palermitaine ;     apricot    marmelade,     lemon, 

jelly  and  cream  ice. 
*—  a    la    Richelieu ;    rice    cream,    maccaroons,    pista- 
chios,    annanas,     chestnuts. 

—  au  Riz   a  la  B^arnaise ;  rice  with  maraskino. 
^ — au    Riz    a    I'lmperiale;    rice    with    fruits. 

—  au    Riz    a    la    Maltaise ;    rice    with    oranges, 
•—^  au  Riz   a  la  Palermitaine ;    see  above. 

- —  a  la  Romanow ;  orange  cream,  chestnut  cream, 
finger    biscuits    with    walnut    julienne. 

- —  a  la  Serano ;  raspberry  with  pistachio  cream, 
maraskino,    biscuits,    fruits. 

—  a     la     Shakespeare ;     caramel,     cream,     curacao ; 

pears,    annanas,    pistachios. 

—  a     la     Sicilienne;      pistachio      cream,      chocolate,, 
!  '       cream,    cinnamon,   orange- jelly. 


Puddings-frozen 247 American  puddings 

—  a   la  Victoria ;    almond  cream   and  vanille  cream, 

rum,    apricot    sauce. 

—  a     la     Waddington ;     strawberry     cream,     almond 

cream,    maraskino,    fruits. 

—  Progres    glac6;    a    canon    of   ice    cream. 

—  Prophete  glace;    pineapple   ice. 

Biz  glacee — serve  like  the  puddings,   same  receipts. 
Souffl6     glace,      a     I'Alcazar — vanille      cream     with 

maraskino,    maccaroons,    chestnuts,    baked    and 

frozen. 
^- a   la   Byron;    biscuits,    maccaroons,    kirsh,   baked, 

frozen. 

—  a  la  Dickens;  peach  and  chocolate  ices;  in  paper 

cases. 

—  a    la    Diplomate ;    vanille    cream,    raspberry-juice, 

rum,     biscuits;     in    casserole. 

—  a    la    Favart;    almond    cream    with    hazelnut    bis- 

cuits,   strawberry    in    paper    cases. 

—  a    la    Hongroise ;    with    Tokay   wine. 

—  a    la    Jenny    Lind;     cream,     maraskino,    nuts. 

—  a      la      Londonderry;       cream,      strawberry-juice, 

maraskino. 

—  a   la   Marly ;    apricot,   nutliquor,    almonds   roasted. 

—  a   la   Palffy ;    paper    cases,    almond   cakes,    maras- 

kino   and    cream. 

—  a    la    Palmyre ;    souffle    with   figs. 

—  a     la     Savoysienne;      vanille     cream,     maraskino, 

biscuits,     chestnuts. 

—  a    la    Scott;    curacao,    orange-juice,    cream. 

—  a   la   Talismanique ;    chocolate,    cream,    maraskino, 

biscuits,     almond    cream. 

—  a    la    Thackeray;     strawberry-juice,    vanille    and 

cream. 

—  a   la   Tortoni ;    almond  mousse    on  vanille  biscuit. 
Su6doise    de    fruits    glace — dish    of    iced    maraskino 

fruits. 

Special  American  puddings — these  receipts  are  most 
often   referred   to   by  American   cooks,    though   of- 
European    origin, 
fish;  hard  roes  are  known  as  caviare;  boutargue: 

Adam  and  Eve — breadcrumbs,  beef  suet,   eggs,  rais- 
ins,   steamed    and    baked,    custard    sauce. 

—  Agnew    pudding ;    apple   pudding. 
— -  Albemarle  ;    almond  pudding. 

—  Albert;    beef    suet   pudding   with   raisins. 

—  a    r Alderman;    egg    cream   pudding. 


American  puddings 248 American  puddings 

—  a     r  Alexandra;      breadcnimbs,      raisins,      cream, 

cherry    marmelade. 

—  a  I'Allemande;   breadcrumbs,   eggs,   marmelade  or 

fruits. 

—  a   I'Alma;    beef   suet   with    apricot   marmelade. 
- —  Acidule ;    biscuit    pudding    with    lemon    syrup. 

—  All    Threes ;    raisins,    apples,    suet,    breadcrumbs 

and   eggs. 
- —  Amber ;    puff   paste   with   orange   marmelade. 

—  American     black     puddinsr ;     blue     berries     with 

bread   slices;    serve    cold. 

—  Amhurst ;    bread    and    butter,    apples,    cinnamon, 

cream    sauce. 
- —  Angel  pudding ;    butter,    sugar,    eggs   and  milk. 
- —  Aunt    Louisas ;    bread    crumbs,    milk    and    cream, 

eggs  and  lemon- juice,   apricot- jam. 
- — Baby's;    soaked    broken    sponge    cake,    eggs    and 

milk. 
- —  Baden-Baden ;   rice,   vanilla,   milk,    cream. 

—  Calif  ornian;     with     brandy,     cponge     cake     and 

custard. 

—  a    I'Americaine;    chicken   pudding. 

—  a    I'Admirale;     boiled,    beef-suet,    plum    pudding 

with    mashed    potatoes    and    carrots. 

—  a    la    Bacheliere ;    apple    pudding   with   raisins. 

—  Bakewell ;  puff-paste,  apricots,  brandy  and  fruits. 

—  Balloon ;    with   wine   sauce    of   eggs,    butter,    milk 

and  flour. 

—  Bank  Holiday;   shredded-suet,  bread  crumbs,  rice 

and  eggs. 

—  Barford  pudding;   beef-suet,   flour,   sugar,   raisins. 

—  Bath   pudding ;    light   paste,    lemon-juice,    brandy, 

in  puff-paste,   wine    sauce. 
' — 'Beaufort     pudding;     puff-paste,     strawberry- jam, 
ratafia. 

—  Beaulieu;    paste,    almonds,    brandy. 

—  Birds'  nest;  batter  with  apples;   served  in  tureen. 

—  Bishops;    puff-paste    with    jam    and    rice,    bread 

crust. 

—  Black   cap ;    sliced   french   rolls,    raisins,    almonds 

and    custard. 

—  Bombay;     batter    with    brandy,     cocoanut,     puff- 

paste. 

—  Boston ;  batter  with  almonds  and  cinnamon,  puff- 

paste. 
■ —  Bowdoin    and   pumpkin   pie ;    cornflour   and   beef- 
suet,  molasses  with  the  pie. 


American  puddings 249 American  puddings 

—  Buff   pudding;    a    pie   with    marmelade    and   puff- 

paste. 

—  a    la    Balmoral ;    bilberry    pudding. 

—  a    la    Bavaroise ;    Bavarian    nuddle    pudding. 

—  a    la    Benvenuto ;    cocoanut   pudding. 

—  a  la  Berkeley;   bread  suet  pudding. 

—  a  la  Berlinoise;   layers  with  pancakes  and  fruits, 

apricot    sauce. 

—  Black    cap;    puff-paste    pudding   with    raisins. 

—  a    la    Bohemienne;     with    nuts    and    plums,     rice 

and  millet. 

—  a     la     Bradley;     bread     crumbs,     custard     cream, 

raisins   and   annanas. 

—  a    la    Bretonne;    bread    pudding    with    brandy. 

—  a  la  Cambaceres;    almond  pudding  with  angelica. 

—  a   la   Camerani;    with  almonds,    annanas,    nuddles, 

chestnuts. 

—  a    la    Chanceliere;    custard    pudding    with    ratafia 

and    dried   fruits. 

—  a  la  Cheltenham;   baked  plum  pudding  with  suet. 

—  a    la   Chester;    almond  pudding,    meringue. 

—  a  la    Chipolata;    chestnuts,   nuddles,    suet,   raisins, 

ham,   brandy,   madeire. 

—  de  Citrouille  ;   pumpkin  pudding. 

—  a    la    Cobourgeoise ;    bread   pudding    with    currant 

jelly. 

—  de  Coco  ;   cocoanut  pudding. 

—  a    la    College ;    balls    of    plum    pudding    mixture, 

floured,    fried. 
— ^  a     la     Comtese;     biscuit     with     strawberry,     mar- 
melade,    custard    pistachios. 

—  a    la    Conseiller;    maccaroon    and  biscuit   pudding. 

—  a    la    Conquerant ;    fruit   pudding  with   maraskino. 

—  a    la    Conservatrice ;    biscuit   pudding. 

— •  a    la    Cordon    bleu ;    rice    pudding   with    pineapple 
and   cocoanut, 

—  a   la   Cowley;    potato   pudding  with  almonds. 

—  a  la   Cussy;    custard  pudding. 

—  Cambridge ;     puff-paste     with     canjlied     oranges, 

candied   peels, 

—  Castle ;    small  moulds  of  plain  batter  with  sherry 

wine   sauce. 

—  Children's    pudding;    of    suet    and    currants. 

—  Circassian;    bread    crumbs   and   milk,    ratafia   and 

flour,  plain  batter. 

—  Clarens    pudding;    raisins,    candied    peel,    brandy, 

white   wine,    plain   batter. 


American  puddings  250  American  puddings 

—  Clarges-street ;    plain    tatter    with    brandy,    fruit 

sauc6;    serve    cold. 

—  Cilfton;  rice,  cream  and  almonds. 

—  Constance;    fruits,    candied   peel   and   wine    sauce. 

—  Cornwall ;     with    white    wine,     cream     and    eggs, 

wine    sauce. 

—  Cottage ;    plain   hutter   pudding   with   wine    sauce. 

—  Crystal  palace ;    with   cornflour,    cream  and  ising- 

glass  with  cherries;    serve   cold. 
'- —  Cumberland ;    with    apples,     suet,     currants,    wine 
sauce. 

—  Cup    puddings ;     of    cream    sugar    and    flour ;     in 

cups,    baked. 

—  Curates   pudding;    plain  batter  in   cup   form  with 

custard    sauce. 

—  Daisy's    pudding;     sponge    cake,    soaked    in    port 

wine,    raisins,     custard    and    butter. 

—  Damkorf  pudding;    soaked  bread  crumbs,   ratafia, 

orange  peel,   wine   sauce,    eggs. 

—  Danish  pudding;    tapioca,  jelly  and  cream. 

'^- Delaware  pudding;  peaches,  lime-juice  and  bat- 
ter;   suet,    some  times  apples  and  peaches. 

— '•  Delhi  pudding ;  almonds,  arrow  root,  fruits, 
Guava-jelly. 

—  Devonshire  pudding ;    custard  with   slices  of  plum 

pudding,    brandy   sauce. 

—  Dingy    pudding;     brown    bread    and    port    wine, 

chocolate,    almonds,    currants,    chocolate    sauce. 

—  Down   East   pudding;    molasses    and   blackberries, 

brandy. 

—  Duke's     pudding;      raisins,      french     rolls,     peel, 

brandy,    white    wine. 

—  Durham  pudding ;  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  eggs, 

marmelade,   hot  or  cold. 

—  Dutch    pudding ;    butter,    milk,    flour,    eggs,    yeast 

and    currants. 

— -Editors'    pudding;    pie    dish,  puff -paste,    cherries, 
■          peel,    butter,    roll-slices. 

—  Essex    pudding ;    sago,    eggs,  milk,    breadcrumbs, 

raisins,   suet,   cornflour. 

—  a    la    Dehnonico ;    corn    starch   meringue. 

—  a  la  Dombey;   cream,  bread  crumbs,   suet,  raisins, 

marrow    peel,    rum    and   wine,    rum    sauce. 

—  a  I'Ecossaise;   rye,  milk,  peel,  whiskey,   eggs  and 

froth ;    madeire    sauce. 

—  a     I'Enfer;     like     plum    pudding,     burning     with 

liquor. 


American  puddings 251 American  puddings 

—  a  I'Espagnole;    bread  crumbs,   milk,   eggs,  vanill» 

sauce. 

—  Excellent;    raisin    pudding,    bread    crumbs,    peel, 

ginger,    rum. 

—  a  r Exeter;    suet  pudding  with   sago. 

—  Eve's    pudding;    apples,    bread    crumbs,    currants, 

suet,    peel,    brandy,    allspice. 

—  Flame     pudding ;     butter,     eggs,     almonds,     flour, 

stale,  sponge  cake ;  served  with  flaming  brandy, 

—  Fortunatus  pudding;    puff-paste   and   fruit  jam. 

—  Frankfort    pudding;     eggs,    cream,    almonds,    van- 

illa, brown  bread  crumbs,  peel,  cherry  sauce,^ 
dom    shaped. 

—  French    and    Italian   pudding;    eggs,    cream,    suet, 

roll  slices,  apples,  raisins,  dates,  in  pie  dish 
with  puff-paste,  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  browned^ 

—  Frozen  pudding;   flour,    sugar,   eggs,   boiling  milk, 

cooked  twenty  minutes,  cooled  with  gelatine, 
wine,  sugar,  cream;  packed  in  ice  with  can- 
died fruit,   whipped  cream. 

—  Fun  pudding;    apples   in  pie   dish  with  fruit,   jam. 

milk    and    cream,    arrow    root. 

—  a    la    Figaro ;    batter    in   three    colors   with   choco- 

late,   red   wine    sauce. 

—  de   Fie'ue  a  la   Westmoreland;   fig-suet  with  ale. 

—  a   la   Florentine ;   raisins,   eggs,   potato   flour,    sab- 

ayon   sauce. 

—  a    la    Franklin ;     almond    pudding    with     candied 

fruits. 
— •  a   la   Freese ;    chicken  pudding. 

—  a    la    Gala ;    biscuit   pudding   with   marmelade. 

—  a  la   Garcon;    apples,   raisins,   bread  crumbs,   peel 

and  spice. 

—  a     la     Gastronome;     suet,     marrow,     eggs,     bread 

crumbs,    raisins,    rum,    apricot    sauce. 

—  a  la  Gelee ;  bread  custard,  spread  over  with  jelly. 

—  a    la    Genevoise;    rice    pudding    with    apples. 

—  a   la    Genoise ;    genoise    cake   with   marmelade. 

—  a-  la   George   Quatre ;    rice   pudding  with   cherries. 

—  a  la   Germaine ;    tri-colored  pudding  w.    chocolate. 

—  a    la    Gladstone ;    biscuit   pudding    with   pears. 

—  a    la    Grant;    biscuit   pudding   with   fruits. 

—  a    la    Grecque ;    bread   pudding    with   honey-syrup. 

—  de    Griottes;    sour    cherries,    agriot    pudding. 

—  German  pudding ;    bread  slices  with  milk,  butter, 

eggs,    peel,    orange    marmelade. 


American  puddings  252  American  puddings 

■ — -Gertrude's    pudding;    tapioca    with    milk    in    pie- 
dish,    baked   with    apples. 

—  Gloucester     pudding ;     eggs,     flour,     almonds,     in 

small  mould. 

—  Golden    pudding ;    suet,    stale    bread,    marmelade, 

eggs  and  milk. 

—  Gotham    pudding ;     milk,     eggs,     saleratus,    flour, 

currants,   wine   sauce. 

—  Hampshire    pudding;    rich    puff-paste,    jam,    eggs 

and  ■  butter. 

—  Hanover    pudding,    bread    crumbs,    lime,    raisins, 

almonds,    madeire,    sweet   sauce. 

—  Harem    pudding ;    cream,    currants,    pistachios,    in 

dariole    mould,    strawberry    sauce. 

—  Hasty  pudding ;    egg,   flour,   milk. 

- — Helen's    pudding;    cornflour,    milk,    eggs,    essence 

of  almonds. 
- — Helene;    milk,     cream,    bread    crumbs,    peel    and 

jam;    hot    or    cold. 
- — ■  Heref  ords ;     apples,     suet,     currants,     flour,     eggs 

and   milk;    hot    or    cold. 

—  Homely;    jam,    bread    crumbs,    milk,    egg,    sugar. 

—  Hunter's;     suet,     flour,     currants,     raisins,     peel, 
-     allspice,    brandy,    sweet   sauce. 

—  Hunting ;      eggs,      cream,     flour,      suet,      currants, 

raisins,    peel,    brandy. 
• — ■  Herodote ;   suet  pudding  with  figs. 

—  a    la    Hollandaise;    like    Dutch    with    maccaroons 

and    chocolate. 

—  n    la    Humboldt ;    pudding    of    thin   pancakes. 

—  Imperiale    a    la    cordon   bleu ;    rice    pudding   with 

pineapples    and    cocoanut. 
- — -a    ritalienne;    with    Genoese    cake    and   fruits. 

—  a  la   Jersey ;    boiled  rice  pudding  with  raisins. 

—  Iced   pudding ;    cream    custard   with    eggs,    maras- 

kino,    fruits,    peel,    vanilla,    pistachios. 
-^  Indian     pudding ;      with     cornmeal,      eggs,     peel, 
molasses. 

—  Jenny    Lind;     sponge     cake    with     cocoanut    and 

maccaroons. 

—  Juke's  pudding;   suet  bread  crumb,  brandy,  wine 

sauce. 

—  Junior   united ;    sponge    cake,    orange,    marmelade, 

milk,    sugar,    eggs,    wine    sauce. 

—  Jubilante ;    vermicelli  pudding. 

—  a    la    Juive ;    mazzes    or    matso    pudding. 

— ^  a    la    Kielmansegg ;    almond    cream   pudding. 


American  puddings  253 American  puddings 

—  a   la   Lamartine;    puff-paste   pudding  with   apples. 
- — Kendal  pudding;    eggs,   milk,   puff-paste,    jam   and 

peel;    hot   or   cold. 

—  Lady     Wrottesly's;     cream,     sugar,     flour,     eggs, 

rosewater,   small  cups,  wine   sauce. 

—  Lancer ;    suet,    raisins,    cream,    flour,    eggs,    milk, 

brandy    sauce. 
" — Leamington;  eggs,  flour,  butter,  jam,  wine  sauce; 
different    sizes    on    top    of    other. 

—  Leicester;    flour,    suet,    raisins,    cream,    eggs,    peel, 

nutmeg,    sweet    sauce. 

—  Little   Constance's;    eggs,   butter,   milk  and  cream 

in    shallow   pans,    sweet    sauces. 

—  Louis  Phillippe ;  apples,  sugar,  brandy,  jam,  peel, 

maccaroons,     vanilla. 

—  a    la    Lyonnaise ;    eggs    with    lemon,    potato    flour, 

sabayon    sauce. 

—  a    la    Madonne ;    bread    crumbs,    suet,    peel,    eggs 

and    brandy. 
• — de    Maizena;    of    cornmeal. 
- — a   la   Malvern;    starch  apple   pudding. 
• — de  Manne  de  pologne;   of  mannah  groats. 
- — a     la     Mansfield;     bread     crumbs,     suet,     raisins, 

cream,    brandy,    spices. 

—  a   la   Marquise ;    cocoanut  pudding. 
• — -de    Marrons;    chestnut    pudding. 

—  a  la  Menestrele;   boiled  suet  pudding  with  fruits. 

—  a   la    Metternich;    chestnut   pudding. 

- — a   la   Michel-Ange;    raisins,    fruits,    bread   crumbSj 

brandy,    rum  and  brandy   sauce. 
■ — ■  a    la    Monte-sano ;    plain    egg   pudding   with   milk. 
- — •  a   la   Montmorency ;    cherry  pudding. 
■ — a  la  Montreal;    steamed  plum  pudding,  raisins. 

—  Maids     of    honor;     cream    and     spices,     eggs,     al- 

monds,   rose   water,   wine   sauce. 

—  Manchester;    milk,   bread  crumb,   peel,   eggs,   puff- 

paste,   marmelade. 

—  Marlborough;    apples,    lemon-juice,    eggs  &   cream. 

—  Marque;     suet,     bread     crumb,     jam,     peel,     eggs, 

sweet    brandy    sauce. 

—  Maud's;    stale    sponge    cake,    currants,    puff-paste, 

egg,    white    wine. 

—  Milton;    cream,    mace,    lemon  with  jam  &  brandy. 

—  a    la    Minute ;    milk    and    rye    flour,    spices ;    very 

hot. 

—  Mocha ;    served  very   cold  with  mocca   icing. 


American  puddings  254 American  puddings 

—  Monmouth ;    bread   crumb,    milk,    eggs   and  lemon- 

juice   with  jam   in  pie   dish. 

—  Mousseline ;   butter,   sugar,   lemon-juice,  eggs  with 

fruits. 

—  Nassau;    butter,    sugar,    eggs,    shallow    dish   with 

puff-paste. 

—  Neapolitan ;     sugar,    bread    crumbs,    rum,    sponge 

cake,  jam,  wine  sauce. 

—  Nelson;    in    small    mould    with    biscuits,    cherries 

and   peel   with    custard,    wine   sauce. 

—  Nesselrode ;     chestnuts,     cream,     custard,     maras- 

kino,    vanille,    raisins. 

—  Newark;   rice,   flour,  breadcrumbs,   cherries,   sweet 

wine  sauce. 

—  a   la    Nationale ;    sauce    as    Figaro. 

—  a    la    Neufchateloise ;    with    cheese. 

—  de   Noisette ;    hazelnut   pudding. 

—  a  la   Norvegienne ;    of  rice,    eggs   and  butter,    cup 

pudding. 

—  New     Colledge ;     suet     biscuits,     currants,     eggs^ 

cream,    butter,    fried. 

—  Newmarket ;     milk,     lemon,     cinnamon     on    bread 

and   butter,    in    pie    dish. 

—  Nonpareil;   breadcrumbs,  milk,  butter,   fruit,  jelly 

and    currants,    meringue. 

—  Norfolk ;     eggs,    milk,    flour,    boiled    in    dumpling 

form   in  water. 

—  Northhumberland ;     in    cup    moulds ;     eggs,    flour, 

milk,    brandy,    currants,    wine    sauce. 

—  Nottingham ;    hot   or    cold,    apples   with   batter   on 

top. 

—  Nun;   maccaroons,  custard,  cocoanut,  eggs,  cream, 

milk  and  sugar. 

—  Orleans ;   rum,  peel,   gelatine,   eggs,   cream,  butter, 

sugar,    raisins    and    currants,    sponge    cake. 

—  Oxford     pudding;      suet,      raisins,      breadcrumbs, 

spice    and    sherry,    brandy    sauce. 

—  Palmtree ;     diamond     shaped     batter,     fried,     egg 

sauce. 

—  Pembroke;   suet,  breadcrumbs,  sugar,  milk,  lemon 

peel  in  pie  dish  with  jam,   or  potatoes. 

—  Penelope ;     vanilla,     chocolate    icing,     milk,    eggs, 

flour,    cream    and    sugar. 

—  Peripatetic ;     sponge    cake    with    marmelade    and 

sweet   wine. 

—  Polka ;     arrow    root,    milk,    eggs    and    butter,    al- 

monds, flour,   sweet  sauce. 


American  puddings 255 American  puddings 

—  Poor    man's;    slices    of    roll,    soaked    in    custard, 

fried   with  wine   sauce. 

—  Porcupine;    of  rice   with   custard  peel,    stuck  full 

of  almond   shreds. 

—  Portland ;     butter,    sugar,    cream,    eggs    and    peel 

in  small  moulds. 

—  Portugal ;    rice,    cream,    eggs,    sugar,    butter    and 

milk,   jam. 

—  Princess ;     gelatine,     sugar,     lemon-juice,     Malaga, 

eggs   and   custard,    some   times   with   fruits. 

—  a    la    Cleveland;     milk,    eggs,    flour    and    vanilla, 

eggs,    maraskino,    chestnuts,    vanilla. 

—  a  la   Liscard  Hall;    sugar,    cream,   kernel   essence, 

eggs  and  froth. 

—  a    la    Oswego;    maizena    pudding   with   fruit   jelly. 

—  du    Paradis;    bread    and    apple. 

—  a    la     Parisienne ;     orange-peel,     flour,     milk     and 

eggs,    orange    sauce. 

—  a    la    Pasteur    gris ;    biscuit    pudding    with    Xeres 

wine. 

—  de   Pavot;   with  poppy    seeds. 

—  a    la    Paysanne;    bread   pudding   with   fruits. 

—  a   la   Perugine;    with   nuddles   and  almond   cream. 

—  a   la   Petite   Marie:    lemon  and  wine   pudding. 

—  a    la    Plumery;    almond    and    maccaroon    pudding. 

—  a   la   Prince   Regent;    rice   pudding  with   apricots. 

—  a   la   Prince  Royale;    omelet   pudding. 

—  a  la  de  la   Pryme ;   lemon  and  orange  pudding. 

—  a    la    Randolf    Churchill ;    marrow    pudding    with 

pineapples. 

—  de   Riz   a   I'Allemande;    of  rice   with  raisins. 

—  de    Riz    a    I'Anglaise;    with    raisins,    lemon-peel, 

maccaroons,    rum. 

—  de   Riz   a   la   Bagration;    of  rice  with   fruits. 

—  de    Riz    a    la    Bourdaloue;    with    almond,    cream 

and   peaches. 

—  de  Riz  a  la  Kaunits ;   with  rice  and  marrow. 

—  de    Riz    a    la    Portugaise;    with    pineapples    and 

peel,   apricot  sauce. 
• — a   la   Rodnay;    plain    batter  with   kirsh    sauce. 

—  a  la  Royale ;    arrak  pudding,   fruit  puree,    crumbs 

or    biscuits. 

—  a    la    Theodore;    finger    cakes,    candied    cherries, 

quinces,    currants,    candied   fruit. 

—  Quaking  pudding;   eggs,  cream,  bread,  rose  water. 

—  Queen   pudding ;    suet,    whole  meal,    bananas,    cur- 

rant wine,   wine   sauce. 


American  puddings 256 American  puddings; 

—  Raglan;    candied  peel,   figs,   eggs,    cream,   vanilla^ 

wine,     fruit    sauce. 

—  Revere ;    flour,    crackers,    eggs,    suet,    spices,    cin- 

namon. 

—  Rich  pudding;   layers  of  puflf -paste  with  apricots, 

brandy    sauce. 

—  St.    John's    pudding;     suet,     flour,    jam,     apples, 

cherries,    whipped   cream. 

—  Savoury     pudding;     bread     crumbs,     milk,     suet, 

chopped  onion,    sage,   eggs,   fried. 

—  Saxe-Weimar ;      butter,      cream,     eggs,     chocolate, 

biscuits,    chocolate,    cream    sauce. 

—  Schneider;    arrow-root,   milk,   apples,   peel,    cloves^ 

in  pie  dish. 

—  Sir     Watkin     Winn's;     suet    breadcrumbs,     rice, 

eggs,  marmelade,   sweet  sauce. 

—  Snow  pudding ;   gelatine,  lemon-juice,   sugar,   eggs, 

custard,    vanilla   flavor. 

—  Snowdon ;    suet,   breadcrumbs,   sugar,   eggs,   lemon- 

juice,    white    wine,    peel,    raisins. 

—  Sponge  puddings ;  with  rich  wine  sauce,  in  small- 

moulds,   plain  batter. 

—  a  la   Salvatore ;   marmelade  pudding. 

—  a     la     Sans-Souci;     apple    pudding    with    vanilla 

sauce. 

—  a  la  Saxonne ;  plain  batter  with  fruit  sauce. 

—  a    la     Schiller ;     thin    pancakes    with    marmelade 

and  custard  cream,    cut-up  with   cherries. 

—  de    Semoule ;    semolina    or   farina   pudding. 

—  Souffle   a   la   Bresilienne ;    with  bananas. 

—  Souffle  a  la  Frankf ortoise ;   with  almonds,   crumbs^ 

and    cherries. 

—  Souffle  a  la   Reine ;   with  arrack. 

—  a    la    Standish ;     cheese    curds    with    raisins    and 

lemon. 

—  a  la    Suedoise ;    of  brown  bread,   raisins,   rum. 

—  a  la   Suisse ;   with  lemon-peel,   sour  cream,  brown 

bread. 

—  a   la    Tanaisie ;    tansys   with    cream,   biscuits   and 

white    wine. 

—  a  la  Tante  Alice ;  bread  pudding  with  marmelade. 

—  a  la  Tante  Elisabeth;   bread  pudding  with  puree 

of   apples. 

—  a    la    Tante    Marie ;    raisins    and    almond   puding. 

—  a    la    Tante     Suse ;     rice    pudding    with    candied 

lemon-peel. 

—  a  la  Trautmansdorf ;   rice  pudding  w.  maraskino. 


American  puddings  257  Punch 

—  a  la   Tyrolienne;   biscuit  pudding  with   chocolate. 

—  Typsy    pudding;    in    small    moulds,    soaked    with 

rum,    strewn   with    cocoanut. 

—  Toast   pudding;    of    stale    toast   with   raisins    and 

lemon   peel. 

—  Travellers    pudding :    candied   peel   with    cherries, 

in  small  moulds  or  coups,  wine  sauce. 

—  Vegetable   pudding ;    currants,    raisins,    suet,    nut- 

megs,   carrots    and   potatoes,    sweet    sauce. 

—  Venus    pudding,    eggs,     cream,     custard,    gelatin© 

ginger,    sherry    wine. 

—  Victoria;    sago   and  fresh  fruit. 

—  Vienna    pudding;     bread     crumbs,    peel,     raisins, 

eggs,    milk    and    sherry    wine,    wine    sauce 

—  Violets    pudding;    eggs,    sugar    and    milk,    sliced 

sponge  cake. 

—  a    la    Valencay;    cabinet    pudding   with    slices    of 

rum,    soaked,   savarin  cake. 

—  a  la  Vernet ;    chestnut  pudding. 

—  a  la  Vesuviene ;   flaming  raisin  pudding. 

—  a    la    Meimarienne ;    chocolate    pudding. 

—  a    la    Wellington;    pancakes    with    apricot,    mar- 

melade   with   coffee,    cream   and   eggs. 

—  a  la  Westernland;    red  colored  grits  with   cream. 

—  a    la    Westphalienne ;    pumpernickel   pudding. 

—  Water    pudding ;    water,    sugar,    peel    and    lemon, 

butter   and  eggs,   in  pie   dish,    hot  or  cold. 
•—Windbags  or  German  light  pudding;   Windbeutel, 
butter,   flour,    eggs   and   sugar. 

—  Wrexham     pudding ;      eggs,      sugar,     sago,      suet, 

breadcrumbs,     brandy,    marmelade,    raisins. 
Puffs — a   kind  of  light  pastry;    Windbeutel. 
Puff-paste — a    light    paste,     such    as    used    to    lino 
pie    dishes. 

—  Pulled   bread;    see   bread. 

Pulque — an  intoxicating  Mexican  drink,  made  of 
aloe. 

Pulse — a  general  term  for  leguminous  vegetables, 
or  seeds. 

Pumpernickel — bread,  made  of  unbolted  rye;  baked 
thirty  hours. 

Pumpion — a  name  for  pumpkin. 

Pumpkin — Gourde;  Kiirbis;  used  in  soups,  vege- 
tables and  pies. 

Punch — Ponche ;  Punch ;  liquor,  made  of  five  in- 
gredients:   sugar,   water,    spirit,   spice  and  acid. 

-—  Roman     punch ;     made     of     champagne,     noyeau. 


Punch  258 Eamequins 

» 
orange-juice ;    a    sherbet. 

Punschky — Russian  patties;  onions,  fillet  of  veal, 
eggs,  parsley,  reduced  sauce. 

Purees — something  passed  through  a  sieve  or  tam- 
my;  a  mush  for  fancy  headings;    see  soups. 

Purl — a  drink,  malt  liquor,  medicated  with  worm- 
wood. 

Purslane — Pourpier ;  Portulak. 

Quails — Cailles;     Wachteln;     see    fowl. 

—  a    I'Escoffier;    baked   in   baked   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Monegasque ;    on   toast   with    shallots,   bear- 

naise  and  brown  sauce. 

Quart — the   fourth   part   of   a   gallon;    two   pints. 

Quass — a   vinegar,   made   of  rye  flour  in  Russia. 

Quassia — ^bitterwood,   used  for  bitters. 

Queimado — a  Portuguese  punch  liquor  of  cocoanut, 
spiced   and   seasoned,    hot. 

Quenelles — Knodel ;  a  delicate  forcemeat  in  balls ; 
little   dumplings. 

Quillaya  bark — used  in  ginger  ale  and  other  drinks, 
to  give  soapiness. 

Quinces — Goings;  Quitten;  used  in  apple  pie,  jel- 
lies,  etc. 

Quinnat — Californian  salmon. 

Rabbits — Lapins ;   Kaninchen. 

—  Civet  of  rabbit ;  Hasenpf offer ;  a  black  stew  with 

pork. 
Racahout— preparations      from      acorns ;      substitute 

for   chocolate. 
Back — Quartier ;    Rippenstiick. 
Radishes — Rettige ;    Radis,    Radieschen. 
Ragouts — something     that     restores     the     appetite; 

French  stews  which  abound  in  spices. 

—  a    la    Deutsch ;     minced    fillet    beef,    saute    a    la 

Minute    with    kidneys,    onions,    potatoes,    pep- 
pers,   madere. 
Rabat   Lakhoum — a    sweet   meat;    Turquish   delight. 
Railbirds  Lord  Baltimore — saut6  with  bacon,  white 

wine,    sherry    and    sippets ;    small    birds,    chafing 

dishes,   rails. 
Raisins — raisins    sec,    Rosinen. 
Raki — a  spirit  from  the  juice  of  prunes. 
Ramequins — Kasekrapfchen;     a    mixture    of    cheese, 

eggs  and  other  things,  formed  in  a  mould,  cheese 

cakes,    cheese   puffs. 


Rampion 259 Rhubarb 

Ramplon — roots    boiled    tender    and    eaten   hot   witb 

sauce   or  cold  with  vinegar. 
Rape — the  refuse   stems  or  skins  of  raisins;   a  thin 

wine    is   made    from    them. 
Rare — a    term    signifying   underdone. 
Rarebit — see  "Welsh  rabbit;   boiled  cheese  with  beer 

on    toast;     served    in    egg-dish    with    "Worcester 

sauce  and  mustard,   very  hot. 
Raspberries — Framboises ;   Himbeeren. 
Ratafia — a  spirit  distilled  from  molasses  or  kernels. 
Ratafias — small    biscuits,    made    with    almonds    and 

the  liqueur. 
Ravigotte — a     mixture     of    taragon,     chervil,     chiVes 

and  burnet,    minced;    garnish   in  salads. 
Ravigotte  sauce — melted  butter  w.  ravigote  garnish. 
Ravioles — a  mince   meat  of  veal,   liver,   marrow   and 

herbs,     spinach    and    cheese;     poached    in    past* 

enveloppe;    a    stuffed    Knodel. 
Rayfish — of    the    skate    family;    raye. 
Rechauffe — warmed  again;    dishes  made  up   of  cold, 

cooked   meat    and   other   things. 
Red   currants — Groseilles;    Johannisbeeren,    rot. 
Reducing — reduction      of      bulk       or      quantity      to 

strenghten    stock,    etc. 
Reed  birds — Rallies ;    Railbirds ;    a   singing   bird. 
Refection — signifies  a  lunch,   or  repast. 
Refectory — dining    halls    of    monaterys. 
Refrigerating — to    lower    the    temperature. 
Regence   a  la — see   garnitures. 
Reindeer — Rennthier;    tastes  like   best   venison. 
Relishes — a  kind  of  hors  d'houvres;   such  as  Celery, 

olives,  salted  nuts,  etc. 
Remoulade — a   sauce  or  salad  dressing;   hard  boiled 

egg-yolks,     worked     down     with     oil     and    herbs; 

remouler-to    grind. 
Removes — large   dishes;    relevees,    grosse   piece. 
Rennet — the    salted    dried    fourth    stomach    of    tho 

calf. 
Revalenta    arabica — invalide    food;    Egyptian    lentil 

with   barley   flour. 
Rhine   wines — considered   best    German   wines,    sucb 

as     Hock-Hochheimer,     Liebfraumilch,     Johannis- 

berger,    etc.;    they   are   thirst   increasing. 
Rhubarb — Fr.,     Rhubarbe;     Ger.,     Rhabarber;     th* 

stewed      stems      of      the      large      leaves      of      th» 

plant     "Rheum,"     are    used    in    pies,    competes. 


Rhubarb 260 Bice 

confectionery,  etc. ;  served  with  cream  and  fine 
sugar  in  terrapin  plate  or  cold  vegetable  plate, 
nice — Fr.,  Riz;  Ger.,  Keis;  the  cleaned  grains  of 
s-eeds  of  a  grass,  grovs^ing  in  huge  bunches  on 
marshy  lands,   the  chief  food  of  Asia. 

—  Rice  as  vegetable;  a  la  Bonne-Femme  with  bacon 

and  tomato  puree. 

—  a  la  Bresilienne ;   with  ham  and  tomato  puree. 
■ —  Rice   cakes ;   hot  griddle   cakes,   maple  syrup. 

■ —  en   Capissantis ;    in   silver   shells. 

—  a    la    Chancelliere ;    with   button   mushrooms    and 

fowl  livers. 
• —  aux    Choux   de   Milan ;    with    Savoy   cabbages. 

—  a    la    Citrouille ;    with   gourd. 
■ —  a  la  Creme ;  with  cream. 

'^ —  a   la   Creole ;    with   tomatoes   and  peppers. 

—  a   I'Egyptienne;    stewed  with  lemon-juice. 

—  a  I'Espagnole;  with  tomato,  ham  and  red  pepper. 

—  a   la   Florentine ;   with   crayfish   tails,   cheese  and 

onions. 

—  a  la  Genoise ;  with  tomato  pnr^e. 

—  au   Gras ;    with   broth. 

—  au   Gras ;   with   sausages   and  bacon, 

—  au   Gras   a    I'ltalienne;    with   cheese    and   tomato 

puree. 

—  au    Gratin;    with   butter   and   cheese,    browned. 

—  a  rindienne;  curried  rice  with  bacon  and  onions. 
- — a  I'ltalienne;  with  sweet  breads  and  tomatoes. 

—  au  Lait;   milk  rice. 

—  a  la  Menagere ;  with  tomato  sauce  and  sausages. 

—  a    la    Milanaise ;    with    cheese    and   black    butter. 

—  a  la  Persane ;   boiled  in  salt  water,   stewed  with 

butter. 

—  a    la    Piemontaise ;    with    shallots    and    cheese    in 

border  of  mashed  potatoes. 

—  a     la    Polonaise;     with    fried    onions,    ham    and 

cheese. 

—  a   la  Puree  de  Potiron ;   with  puree  of  pumpkins. 
■ — a    la    Reine;    with    eggs,    codfish    and    cheese    in 

mould. 

—  a   la   Ristori;    cabbage,    stuffed  with   rice. 

" —  Rice  pillau;  a  mould  of  boiled  rice  with  strong 
spices,  such  as  saffron,  curry  and  with  meat, 
(when  hot),  or  without  spices,  but  with  fruit 
when  sweet. 


Rice 261 Rice  sweets 

—  Risotto  a  la  Milanaise;   onions,   browned  in  but- 

ter, rice,  stock  and  safifron  with  cheese,  some- 
times   served  on    toast. 

—  a    la    Turque;    boiled    in    mutton    broth,    hot    in 

brown   butter. 

—  a  la  Valencienne ;   with  artichoke  bottoms,  mush- 

rooms, sausages  and  ham. 

—  au   Vert;    with   herb    sauce,    green. 

—  Bordure   de  liiz ;   border  of   rice. 

—  a    hi    Toulousaine;    with   Toulouse   garnish. 

—  a  la  Financiere;  with  financiere  garnish. 

—  Soubrics  de  Riz ;  fried  patties  of  rice  and  cheese. 

—  Surtout    de    Riz    a    I'ltalienne;    Italian    croustade 

of  rice   filled  with   salpicon. 

—  Timbale  de  Riz  a  la   Castilglione ;   thimble  mould 

of  rice  with  chestnuts. 

—  Timbale    a    la    Portugaise;    thimble   mould,    filled 

with    rice    and    tomatoes. 
Rice    in    sweet    dishes — a    la    creme    aux    avelines; 
cream     rice   with   hazelnuts. 

—  a     la    Francaise ;     boiled    with    maccaroons    and 

peel,    cherries,    sugar   and   browned. 

—  a    la   Grecque ;    boiled  with  cream,    orange  water, 

eggs  and  butter  in  crust  with  apricot  jam  and 
peaches. 

—  a  la  Infante;   with  peaches  and  cherries. 

—  au  Lait   a  la   Canelle;    milk  rice   with   cinnamon. 

—  au  Lait  a  I'Espagnole;  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
— -  au    Lait    a    la    Suedoise;    boiled   with    sugar   and 

butter,    browned    with    cinnamon. 

—  a   la   Montmorenoy;    on   baked   border   of   almond 

biscuit  with  apricot  jam,  stewed  fruits,  mar- 
aschino rice  with  ciierrries,  sauce  Reine  Claude 
with  syrup. 

—  a   la    Munichoise ;    boiled  with   sugar,    cream   and 

vanilla,   worked  with  eggs  and  round  biscuits. 

—  a    la    Princesse ;    in    mould    with    pineapples    and 

apricots. 

—  au    Zeste    au    Citron;    with   lemon-peel. 

—  Rolly-poly ;    rolled    pudding    of    biscnits    and    ap- 

ples with   rice. 
Sweet   dishes    of   rice — cold. 

—  a    la    Bearnaise;    with    maraschino    cream. 

—  a   la   Chantilly ;    with  whipped  cream. 

—  a     I'Espagnole;     boiled    with     milk    and     cream, 

orange  syrup   in   sherbet,   frozen. 


Bice  sweets 262 Boed  grofr 

—  a    la    Georgienne ;    with    almond,    milk    and   pine- 

apples. 

—  a  rimperiale;    like  pudding;    see  there. 

—  a  la  Maltaise ;   like  pudding ;   see  there. 

■ — -a  la  Mirabeau;  boiled  in  lemon  water  with 
orange  syrup  with  Curacao,  brandy,  maras- 
chino, almond,  milk  and  dices  of  fruits,  frozen, 

—  a   la   Palermitaine ;    like   pudding   of   same   name. 

—  a    la    Wellington;     boiled    with    Rhine    wine    and 

lemon-juice  in  border  with  cherries  and  Heine 
Claude  with  creme  plombiere  aux  framboise; 
ice    cream. 

—  Ruche   de   Riz ;    bee-hive   of  rice. 

—  Riz   a  la   Conde ;    boiled  in  milk   and  water  with 

orange  water  and  eggs  with  stewed  peaches 
and  currants. 

—  Rice-manger;     of    ground    rice    with    sugar    and 

almonds,   a   stiff  custard. 

—  Rice    manx    cakes ;    rice    flour,    eggs    and    sugar, 

moulded;    baked. 

Eicotta — a    cream   cheese,    used   for   tarts. 

Blind — signifies  bark  or  crust,   as   of  bread. 

Rinfresco — an    Italian    liquor,    resembling    annisette. 

Bis    de    Veau — French    for    sweetbreads;    see    there. 

Eissoles — from  rissoler;  fr.  to  fry  brown;  round 
pieces  of  puff-paste,  stuffed  with  forcemeat, 
folded,    fried    in    hot    fat. 

Bissolettes — small  risolles. 

Bizine — a  preparation  of  rice,  used  to  make  pud- 
dings. 

Boach — Fr.,  G-ardons;  Ger.,  Eotaugen;  a  fresh 
water    fish. 

Bobert^ — brown  sauce,  piquant  with  pickles;  used 
for   pork    and    goose. 

Bocambole — closely   allied  to   the   garlic. 

Bochelle  brandy — a  low  class  brandy,  french. 

Bock — a  sweet  meat,  made  of  sugar,  boiled  to  a 
candy;   flavored  with  nuts. 

Bocky  Mountain  oysters — of  lamb's  fries  and  sweet 
breads. 

Bockfish — Calif ornian  red  fish;  usually  boiled  with 
e^g   sauce,    cold   as   a   salad. 

Boed  Groe — famous  Danish  dish;  juice  of  red  fruit 
with  water,  sugar  and  sago ;  boiled,  moulded 
and  cooled;  served  with  vanilla  cream.  Rote 
Griitze  of  Germany;  Roet  Greet  of  Hamburg, 
delicious    in    hot    weather. 


Boes 263 Saddle 

Boes — Fr.,  Laitances;  Ger.,  Rogen;  two  kinds: 
hard  and  soft;  hard  roes  are  the  eggs  of  the 
female  fish,  soft  roe  is  the  milt  of  the  male 
fish;  hard  roes  are  known  as  caviare;  boutargue: 
smoked  roe  of  cod;  soft  roe  best  as  ragout  or 
stew;  roes  are  often  broiled  with  maitre  butter 
and   lemon. 

Bocolnlc — Polish  name  for  a  soup,  made  with 
poultry  and  other  things  with  gherkins,  sour 
cream,  fennel,  eggs  and  other  vegetables,  (Pol- 
ish  style). 

Boebuck — Fr.,  Chevreuil;  Ger.,  Rehbock;  mostly 
served  as  venison  like  all  other  animals  of  the 
deer    kind;     tame    venison    considered    the    best. 

Bella  cheese — see  tripe. 

Books — bird  closely  allied  to  the  carrion  crow; 
eaten  like  pigeon. 

Boots — term  mostly  applied  to  vegetables  growing 
underground,   such  as  turnips,   carrots. 

Boses — often  used  in  confectionery  because  of  their 
fine   flavor. 

Eosemary — a  garden  herb  of  which  the  leaves  are 
used   as   a   flavoring. 

Eosolios — little  sweets  strongly  flavored  with  cof- 
fee ;    shape  of  coffee  berries. 

Bosolio — a    liquor 

Bosquillas — a  sweet  Spanish  cake. 

Bouennaise    ducks — see    ducks;    cannetons. 

Boux — russet;    flour   and   butter,    fried   together. 

Boyans — a   fish  very   similar  to   sardines. 

Buffs  and  Reeves — birds  closely  allied  to  the  sand- 
piper. 

Bum — Fr.,  Bhum;  Ger.,  Bum;  well-known  spirit, 
distilled   from    the   molasses   of    sugar    cane. 

Bnsks — round  slices  of  yeastened  dough,   baked. 

Bussian  wines — fermented  in  jars  and  preserved 
in  other  jars,   buried  underground. 

Eye — Fr.,    Seigle;    Ger.,   Boggen. 

Sabayon — a  kind  of  whipped  froth,  accompani- 
ment to  sweet  pudding  of  egg-yolks,  sugar  and 
white    wine. 

Sack — name  formerly  given  to  various  dry  Spanish 
wines. 

Saddle — name  given  to  part  of  animal  containing 
a  portion  of  the  backbone  with  ribs  on  either 
side;    a  double  loin. 


Saffron  264 Fr.  salads 

Saffron — ^Fr.,  Safran;  Ger,,  Safran;  used  for  col- 
oring and  spice;  consists  of  the  prepared  stig- 
mas  of   crocus   stavius,    a   plant. 

Sage — Fr.,  Sauge;  Ger.,  Salbei;  herb  best  known 
in  conjunction  with,  onions  for  stuffing  pork 
and    geese. 

Sago— Fr.,  Sagou;  Ger.,  Sago;  obtained  from  th« 
interior  marrow  of  the  trunks  of  palms,  re- 
sembles  arrow   root    in   many    characteristics. 

Salads — two  classes,  simple  and  compound;  Euro- 
pean   and   American;    fr.    dr.    French   dressing. 

—  Gaspachio   a   I'Andalouse;    onions,    chives,   garlic; 

fr.   dr.   cucumbers,    bread   crumbs.^ 
— -Augourcie    a    la    Polonaise;    agourcie    with    spur 
cream. 

—  d' Alchimille  des   Champs;  padelion  salad,   closely 

allied   to    dandelion. 
•^d'Alenois;    garden   cress. 

—  a     r  Alexandre;      European,     for     American     see 

further  down;  game  fowl  breasts,  truffles,  an- 
chovies, brandy,  pickles  with  herbs  and  ma- 
yonnaise. 

—  a      I'Allemande;      potatoes,      Brussels,      sprouts, 

knob  celery  and  fr.  dr. 

—  d'Amaranthe     olerace ;     potatoes     and    beets,     fr. 

dr.    and    horse    raddish,    mayonnaise,    herbs. 
•—a      I'Americaine;      tomatoes,      potatoes,      English 
celery,  gombo  and  herbs  with  eggs  and  chicken 
meat,    mayonnaise. 

—  a  I'Andalouse;   of  onions,  cucumbers  &  tomatoes. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;    lettuce,    celery    and    beets,    endive, 

cresson  and  fr.  dr. 

—  a    I'Ardennaise;     of    red    cabbage,     endives     and 

potatoes. 

—  d' Aubergines;    of    egg-plants. 

—  a  la  Bagration;   of   sole  fillets  and  vegetables. 
— -  de  Barbajoue ;   houseleeks  with  fr.   dr. 

—  de   Barbaree ;   winter   cress ;   fr.   dr. 

—  de    Barbe    de    Capucin;    gardenendive,    capuchin; 

fr.    dr. 

—  de  Batates;    salad  of   sweet  potatoes.^ 

—  a  la  Beaconsfield;   vegetable   salad  with  game. 

—  a    la    Beaucaire;    knob    cellery,    branche    cellery, 

endive,  beets,  fr.  dr.,  ham,  mushrooms,  apples, 
mayonnaise,   herbs. 

—  de    Becabunga;     Bachbungen;     a     cresson    salad; 

fr.   dr. 


Fr.  salads 265 Fr.  salada 

—  a    la    Berlinoise ;    knob    celery    with    mayonnaise, 

beets  and  herbs. 
• — de  Betteraves;   of  red  beets. 

—  de     B16;     Rapuenzchen     salat;     cornsalad;     like 

doucette;    field    salad. 
• — de    Blithe — Beermelde    salat;    blite    salad;    fr.   dr. 

—  de    Bourcettes;    Rapunzel    salat,    lamb's    lettuce. 

—  de    Bourrache;    Borretch;    borage    salad;    fr.    dr. 

—  a  la  Brunswickoise;   knob  celery,^ truffles,  mayon- 

naise,  egg-yolks   and  mustard. 

—  de    Buglose ;    Ochsenzungen    salat. 

—  de  Bunias;    Zackenschotten  salat. 

—  de   Campanule;   Glockenblumen  salat;   bell  flower 

salad;   the  roots  only. 

—  a   la   Caprice ;    mould,    truffles,    artichokes,    celery, 

lobster  and   fowl,   mayonnaise. 
~—  de   Capucine ;    Kapuzinerkresse. 

—  de   Cardamine ;    cress   salad. 

—  de    Gardens ;    cardoons ;    a   plant   between    celery 

and  leeks. 

—  Caroline   a   la    St.   James ;    salad   of  rice,    trufflei 

and    mushrooms. 

—  de   Carottes ;    of   carrots. 

—  a  la  Casanova;   celery  salad  with  eggs  and  shal- 

lots. 

—  de  Celery  a  I'Allemande;   of  knob  celery;  fr.  dr. 

—  de  Celery  a  I'Anglaise;  celery  en  branche;  fr.  dr. 

or  mayonnaise. 

—  a    la    Chambery;    tomatoes,    stuffed   with    mayon- 

naise   of    salmon,    lobster,    artichokes,    lobster, 
gherkins  and  beans. 

—  de  Chanoine;   lamb's  lettuce,   like  doucette,   field 

salad. 

—  de  Chardons;  Brachdistel;   sea-holly  salad. 

—  a   la   Charivary ;    mixed   salad. 

—  de   Chasse-rage ;    cresson  salad. 

• —  des  Chasseurs ;  artichokes,  celery  knobs,  esca- 
rolle,  eggs  beets,  truffles,  olives,  gamefowl, 
fr.  dr. 

—  aux    Chenilles ;    green    salad    with    caterpillars. 

—  de  Chervis ;   of  skirrets ; .  Zuckerwurz. 

—  de    Chicoree ;    Cichorien    salat ;    of    chicory,    wild 

endive. 

—  de   Chicoree   endive ;    endive   salad. 

—  de  Chicoree  au  chapon;  endive  salad  with  bread 

crusts,  rubbed  with  garlic. 

—  de    Choux-marins ;    sea-kale,    kale    or    cole    salad. 


rr.  salads 266 Fr.  salads 

—  a  la  Comtoise;   lettuce  salad  with  salt  pork. 

—  de    Cresonnee ;    Bachbungen ;    brooklime    salad, 

—  de    Crosnes     de    Japan;     of    Japanese    crosnes; 

Knollenziest ;    hedge-nettle. 

—  a   la   Danicheff ;    potatoes,    asparagus,    artichokes, 

mushrooms,   truffles,    crayfish  tail,   celery  knobs 
with   mayonnaise   or   remoulade. 

—  en   Demil-deuille ;    of   potatoes    and    truffles    with 

mayonnaise. 

—  a  la   Demidoff;    of  potatoes,   truffles  and   shallots. 

—  de  Dent  de  Lion;  Loewenzahn;   dandelion  salad; 

fr.   dr. 

—  de  Doucette;    Rapuenzchen;    corn  or  field  salad. 

—  a  la  Dumas;  beets,  potatoes,  gherkins,  tomatoes, 

egg-yolks,   fr.   dr.,    anchovie   essence. 

—  d'£corce   noir;    oysterplant;    Schwarzwurzel ;    ma- 

yonnaise. 

—  d' Eglantines;     hip     or     hep     salad    with     sugar, 

lemon-juice   and   cinnamon. 

—  a   I'Emma;    cucumbers   garnished  with   tomatoes. 

—  d'Epinards      frais;      Erdbeerspinat ;      strawberry 

blithe. 

—  d'Escarolle;      salad     of     broad     leaved     endive; 

fr.    dr. 

—  a     I'Espagnole;     onion,     cucumber,     red     pepper, 

tomatoes,    fr.    dr.,    breadcrumbs. 

—  a  la  d'Estrees;   knob   celery  with  fr.  dr.  trufflles 

and   remoulade   sauce. 

—  d*£te;    lettuce    and    onions,    cresson,    herbs    and 

fr.    dr.    eggs. 

—  de   Fenouille ;    fennel ;    Fenchel    Salat. 

—  de  Feves  de  Marais ;   Puffbohnen,  broad  beans. 

—  a    la   Fin   de    Siecle;    asparagus,    celery,    endives, 

lettuce,   artichokes,   truffles,   eggs,  beets,  beans, 
peas,    asparagus    tips,    fr.    dr. 

—  de    Flageolets ;    of    green    seed   beans,    limabeans. 

—  a  la   Flamande ;   herrings,   sardines,   apples,   beets 

and  potatoes,  fr.  dr.  cauliflower. 

—  de  Follette ;   mountain  spinach  salad. 

—  a  la  Francaise ;   lettuce  salad,  fr.  dr. 

—  a  la  Francillons  ou  Annette ;  potatoes  with  wine 

and  fr.  dr.  herbs,    celery,   mussels. 

—  a   la   Goblins;    potatoes,   artichokes,   celery,   truf- 

fles,  mushrooms,   fr.    dr.    and   mayonnaise. 

—  de   Gombo ;    of  Indian,   Okra   or  Gombo ;    a  fruit 

not  unlike  cucumbers  but  of  sticky  juice. 


Fr.  salads 267 Fr.  salads 

—  a    la    Grimod   de    la   Reyniere;    lettuce,    cabbag«8» 

beans  and  beets,   toast  in  oil,   eggs. 

—  de    Harengs ;    herring    salad. 

—  d'Hiver;      celery,     endive,     beets,     horseraddish» 

potatoes    and    fr.    dr. 

—  a  la  Humbert;   tomatoe  salad  with  sweet  pepper. 

—  d'Igname;    yam    (colic-root)    salad. 

—  a    I'lmperiale;    asparagus,    truffles,    anchovies,    fr. 

dr.,    or   mayonnaise. 
-^  a     ritalienne;     herrings,     anchovies,     pistachios, 

capers,    olives,    apples,    eggs,    celery,    potatoes, 

fr.   dr. 
-—  de    Jambon    de    St.    Antoine ;     evening    primrose 

salad;    Gartenrapunzel. 

—  a   la   Japonaise ;    same   as  francillon. 

—  a     la     Jardiniere ;     julienne     of     vegetables     "^ith 

beans    and   peas,    fr.    dr. 

—  a  la   Jockey  Club ;    asparagus,   truflSes,   anchovies, 

mayonnaise;    fr.,    mustard. 

—  de  Joubarbe   or  barbajoue;   houseleek   salads 

—  a  la  Juden-Stradt ;  of  gherkins  and  red  beets. 

—  a    la    Lackme ;    of   red   beets    and    rice. 

—  de    Lait    d'Oree;    orange-agaric    salad. 

—  de   Laitues;    lettuce   salad;    fr.   dr. 

—  de  Langue  de  Boeuf;    landbeef   salad. 

—  de    Langue    de    Vache;     consound;     Beinwurzel; 

salad. 

—  a    la    Lansquenet ;    potatoes,    cucumbers,    salmon, 

beef,    sausage,    mustard,    herbs,    onions,    fr.    dr. 
<— de  Legumes  Cuit;   of  cooked  vegetables. 

—  de   Legumes   a   la   Dieppoise ;    of   vegetables   with 

herrings  and  herbs. 

—  de  Legumes   a   la   Lyonnaise;    with   sausages   and 

vegetables. 

—  de    Legumes    a    la    Russe ;     of    vegetables    with 

mayonnaise  and   caviar. 

—  a    la    Macedoine;    of    mixed    vegetables;    fr.    dr. 

—  a    la    Madame ;    lettuce    salad    with    fr.    dr.    with 

egg-yolks    and    herbs. 

—  Mele;   mixed,    combination  salad. 

—  a    la    Mignonne ;    endive    salad   with    truffles    and 

chicken. 

—  a  la  Mikado;   tomato  salad;   fr.  dr. 

—  a    la    Mirabeau;    oysters,    shrimps,    truffles,    pota- 

toes with  mayonnaise. 

—  de  Mirette;  of  lady's  looking-glass;  Venusspiegel. 


Pr.  salads 268 Fr.  salads 

— »    la    Miss   Heliett;    of    artichokes,    potatoes   and 
asparagus  tips. 

—  a   la   Modern;    of   celery   and   raw   sliced   truffles. 

—  a  la  Monte   Christo;    lobster  salad. 

—  Moulee   a   la    Russe ;    of   fowl,    anchovies,    salmon 

and   vegetables   and   eggs,    mayonnaise. 

—  a  la  Mulgrave;  lettuce  salad  with  capers  and  re- 

moulade   sauce,    tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Murger;    artichokes,    herbs    and    veal    trot- 

ters;   fr.    dr. 

—  a   la   Nantaise ;    onion   and    sardine    salad. 

—  de  Nanton;   salad  of  garden  cress. 

—  a   la    jSTapolitaine ;    sausage   and   eggs,    celery,   let- 

tuce and  beets ;    tartare   sauce. 

—  a   la   Navette;    cole,    (rape)    seed   salad. 

—  de    Noix    a    la    Francaise ;    French    walnut    salad 

with  fr.  dr.  cream,  sugar  and  eggs. 

—  a    la    Nostitz ;    lettuce   and   vegetables,    eggs   and 

fr.   dr. 

—  d'Oeufs    aux   Nids;    nest    of   onions,    cresses    and 

mustard    with    hard    boiled    eggs,    egg    formed 
cream  cheese;   fr.   dr.,   separate. 

—  Panachees ;    combination    salad. 

—  de  Panais;   parsnip  salad. 

—  a   la   Parisienne;    carrots,    celery,    potatoes,    eggs, 

fr.    dr.,    anchovies,    gherkins,    thuni-fish    salad. 

—  a   la    Parmentier;    potatoes    salad. 

—  a  la  Paysanne ;  red  cabbage,  celery  and  potatoes, 

frc   dr. 

—  a   la   Perigueux ;    truffle   salad,    fr.   dr. 

—  a  la  Petersbourgeoise;    vegetable   salad  with   salt 

smoked    beef. 

—  a    la    Pieukerke ;     Spanish    vegetable    salad    with 

fowl   breasts. 

—  de  Piments  doux  d'Espagne;  with  Spanish  sweet 

peppers. 

—  de     Pissenlits;     dandelion     salad;     Loewenzahn; 

fr.  dr. 

—  Plum's     pride;     potatoes,     tomatoes,     vegetables, 

lettuce,    cresson,    beets,    shallots,    sugar. 

—  de    Poireaux;    of    leeks. 

—  a     la     Polonaise;      roots,     potatoes,      cucumbers, 

gherkins,      eggs,      sardines,      herrings,      herbs, 
horseraddish,    mayonnaise. 

—  Pomme;    Kopfsalat;    cabbage  lettuce. 

—  a   la   Portugaise ;    potatoes,    mushrooms,    tomatoes, 

white   wine   and   fr.    dr. 


Fr.  salads 269 Fr.  salada 

—  de    Pourassou;    chivegarlic;    Schnittlauch. 

—  de  Pourpier;  Portulak;  purslane  salad. 

—  de    Primeau's    a    la    Paysanne;    of    spring    veget, 

—  a  la  Prince  de  Gallos;    sardines,   lettuce,   cresson, 

capers,    eggs,    lemon-juice,    sweet    peppers. 

—  des  Princes ;  truffles,  cucumbers,  remoulade  sauce. 

—  a    la    Princesse;    artichokes,    vegetables    and   ma- 

yonnaise,   tongue    and    aspic    (jelly). 

—  a    la    Provencale;    artichokes,    lemon-juice,    toma- 

toes,  anchovies,   chives  and  herbs,   eggs. 

—  a  la  Rachel;   knob   celery  with  mayonnaise,   truf- 

fles and  mustard. 

—  de    Racine    en    Chartreuse;    mould    of    roots    witb 

aspic. 

—  de    Radis;    Radischen;    early    radishes. 

—  a    la    Reine ;    of    chicken    with    egg    and    lettuce, 

herb  sauce  or  mayonnaise. 

—  a    la    Reine    Isabelle;    langoustes,    shrimps,    pep- 

pers,   anchovies,    truffles,    salmon,    capers. 

—  a    la    Rhenane;    of    herrings,    anchovies,    apples, 

veal,  ham,  tongue,  sausage,  plums,  cucum- 
bers, beets,  mushrooms,  onions,  mayonnaise 
with  roes. 

—  a    la    Romaine;    roman    lettuce    salad,    salade    ro- 

maine;  long  gren  leaves;  fr.  dr. 

—  a    la    Royale;    of    flageolets,    truffles    and    mayon- 

naise. 

—  a  la  Russe ;   potatoes,   celery,   cucumbers,   apples, 

beets,  capers,  beans,  peas,  mayonnaise,  egg» 
and   anchovies. 

—  a  la  St.  James ;   of  rice,  truffles  and  mushrooms. 

—  de   Saison;   just   in  season;    green   salad. 

— -a     la     Salysbury;     of     vegetables     with     lobster, 
mayonnaise. 

—  a    la     Sicilienne ;     celery    knobs,    artichokes,    po- 

tatoes, tomatoes,  peppers,  herbs,  eggs  and 
remoulade   sauce. 

—  a  la  Sotteville;   salad  romaine  with  fr.  dr.  cream 

and    parsley. 

—  a   la   Stroganoflf ;    in  mould   of  roots     truffles   and 

vegetables  with  jelly  and  eggs. 

—  a    la    Suedoise;    tongue,    potatoes,    apples,    roots, 

herrings,    salmon,    fr.    dr.    mustard,    olives. 

—  de    Tobinambourg;    Jerusalem    artichokes. 

—  a    la    Trophy ;    tomato    salad,    peppers    and   green- 

beans. 


Fr.  salads 270 American  salads 

—  a    la    Venitienne;    tongue,    roast    beef,    sausage, 

vegetable,    tomatoes,    chives    and    celery,    pep- 
pers, _  truffles,    mayonnaise    with    eggs. 

—  a   la  Victoria ;    asparagus   tips,   celery  knobs,   po- 

tatoes,   truffles,    artichokes,    jelly;    eggs. 

—  a     la     Wladimir ;     salmon,     herrings,     anchovies, 

crayfish    tails,    olives,    mixed    pickles,    truffles, 
horseraddish,    herbs,     capres    and    mayonnaise. 

•^  a    la    Yorkshire    ploughman ;    lettuce    salad    with 
theriac. 

Salads  as  served  in  America — mostly  conceptions 
of  the  American  cook. 

Salad  sauces  and  dressing — Fr.,  salt,  pepper,  slight 
garlic  flavor,   olive   oil,   vinegar  or  lemon-juice. 

Dressing- — Italian,    salt,    pepper,    tomato   paste,    olive   ' 
oil,   pieces   of  garlic,   tarragon,   vinegar,   beat  and 
strain. 

Dressing — (Mayonnaise)  eggs-yolks  in  cold  bowl, 
stirred  with  salt,  salad,  oil  drop  by  drop  tea- 
spoon    taragon  vinegar  and  lemon-juice. 

Dressing  Sidney  Smith — one  sieved  fresh  boiled 
potato,  rubbed  smooth  with  two  egg-yolks,  salt, 
cayenne,    olive    oil,    vinegar   and   lemon-juice. 

Dressing — (of  cream)  hot  cream,  corn  starch  with 
milk,  cooked  smooth,  two  egg-yolks,  when  cold 
add  one  table-spoon  of  taragon  vinegar,  salt 
and  cayenne. 

Dressing — (German)  half  pint  bouillon,  slice  onion, 
two  bay-leaves,  chopped  celery,  heated,  add  ar- 
row root,  strained,  add  four  egg-yolks,  taragon 
vinegar,  olive  oil,  whisk  and  add  salt,  German 
mustard,  cayene;   serve  cold. 

Cabbage  salad — shredded  cabbage,  iced  two  hours 
ir£   water,    drained   till    dry,    fr.    dr. 

Celery    salad — branch    celery    cut    in    slices,    fr.    dr. 
with  Worcester  sauce. 

Alladin — fruits  in  alligator  pear  skin. 

Allice — heart  of  Romaine,  celery,  grape  fruit  and 
oranges. 

Alma — ^like    Pascaline. 

Aster  salad — of  chicory,  escarole  and  cucumber, 
cresson,  red  peppers,  thin  cream  dressing  and 
mayonnaise. 

Alexis  salad — heart  of  lettuce,  celery  and  chopped 
nuts,   fr.  dr. 

Alexandre  salad — heart  of  lettuce,  celery,  grape 
fruit,  nuts,  grapes,  fr.  dr. 


American  salads 271 American  salads 

Dyer  salad — lettuce,   tomatoes,   chopped  cresson,   fp. 

dr.    with    chillie    sauce. 
Carrot  salad— -simmered  one  hour;   sliced,   fr.  ,dr. 

Caprico — H.    of   lettuce,   pineapple,   tomatoes,   cream, 

lemon-juice. 
Countess    salad — celery,    tomatoes,    apples    and   ma- 
yonnaise. 
Chicken   and   lobster    salad — chicken   meat   in   dices 
with     celery,     lemon-juice,     mayonnaise     dressing 
with  cream,   capres,   salt,  pepper  in  lettuce  leave, 
with  olives. 
ChifTonade    salad — different   green    salads,    tomatoes, 

egg  and  fr.  dr.  beets. 
Ceylon     salad — chopped     tomatoes     or     cucumbers, 
lemon-juice,    salt,    chopped    onion,    chopped    green 
and    sweet    peppers,    paprika,    cocoanut    cream. 
Cherry — tomatoes,    small,    cherry-like    tomatoes,    ro- 

man    tomatoes,    fr.    dr. 
Diplomate — mayonnaise,    bananas    and    pineapples. 
Egg    salad — on    lettuce    leave,    hard    boiled,     sliced 

eggs,    chopped  parsley,  fr.   dr.  mustard. 
Francillon — potatoes   and   mussels   in   lettuce   leaf. 
Fleurette — any    green    salad    with     cream    dressing 

and  chives. 
Florida — fruits   in   banana   skin,    fr.    Ir. 
Fruit   salad — all   kinds  of   fruit   in  pulp,    cut-up   in 
lettuce  leave,  mayonnaise  with  whipped  cream  op 
fr.   dr.   always  use  lettuce  leave  as  basis  for  all 
salads. 
Garcia — lettuce,    escarole,    tomatoes,   peppers,    celery, 

mayonnaise    dressing. 
Garibaldi — like  Alexandre,  but  with  oranges  instead 

of    grape-fruit. 
Florida    salad — heart    of    romaine,    oranges,    pineap- 
ples,  shaddock,   fr.  dr. 
Herring  salad — boiled  potatoes,  apples,  pickled  her- 
ring,   cold   roast   beef,    onion,    celery    seeds,    tara- 
gon  vinegar,   lettuce  leave,   fr.  dr.  with  Worches- 
ter  sauce. 
Italienne — see  European  list. 
Infante — heart    of    lettuce,    chopped    green    and    red 

peppers,    asparagus    tips,    mayonnaise. 
Japanese  salad — of  boiled  rice,   pepper  and  oil,   on- 
ion  and  vinegar  on  lettuce   leave  with    sardines 
and   beets. 


American  salads 272 American  salads 

Knickerbocker — ^heart  of  romaine,  apples,  grape- 
fruit,  oranges,   green   and  red  peppers. 

Kurocki  salad — ^heart  of  romaine,  oranges,  shaddock, 
red  and  green  peppers,   fr.  dr. 

Lackme   salad — a   vegetable   salad  with  rice. 

Lorenzo  salad — spears,  apples,  oranges,  celery,  green 
salads,  eggs,  beets,  fr.  dr.  with  chillie  sauce, 
the   beets   sliced. 

Lorette — escarole,    dandelion,    celery,    beets,    fr.  ^  dr. 

Marguerite — shrimps,  potatoes,  cucumbers,  sliced 
tomatoes,    mayonnaise. 

Mexicana — celery,   mayonnaise   in   orange   shell. 

Moderne — ^heart  of  lettuce,  oranges,  celery,  cherry, 
tomatoes,    fr,    dr. 

Nut  salad — ^for  ducks  or  game)  walnuts  boiled  and 
skinned,  simmered  with  stock,  bay  leave,  onion 
carrot  and  parsley  drain  and  cool  add  chopped 
truffle  and  mushroom,  seeve  in  orange  shell  on 
lettuce    leave    with    fr.    dr. 

Oyster  salad — boiled  oysters  cold  with  wine  vinegdr 
and  paprica,  celery  and  oyster  crabs,  mayon- 
naise   in    lettuce    leave. 

Orange  or  grape  fruit  salad — ^pulp  of  fruit  in  let- 
tuce leave,  fr.  dr. 

Pascaline — heart  of  romaine,  grape  fruit,  alligator 
pear,  red  peppers,  fr.  dr. 

Pepper  salad — chopped  celery  and  chopped  green 
sweet  peppers,  salt  and  lemon-juice,  paprika  and 
ginger,   cocoanut  cream. 

Prescourt — celery,   mayonnaise,    stuffed   in   apple. 

Perthes — potatoes  with  pickled  fish,  fr,  dr.  on  let- 
tuce  leaf. 

Russian  salad — ^minced  boiled  mackerel  and  minced, 
boiled  cold  beef,  cucumber,  Doiled  potatoes  in 
dices,  capers,  olives  and  sardines,  taragon 
vinegar,  olives  and  sardines,  paprika,  chopped 
onion,   lettuce  leave,  fr.  dr.  orange  pulp. 

Riche  salad — of  heart  of  romaine,  cream  dressing, 
egg  dressing,  beets,  anchovies  and  chopped  truf- 
fles, cresson  in  lettuce  leave. 

Royal — ^heart  of  lettuce,  fowl  mince,  vegetables, 
beets    and   mayonnaise. 

Summer  salad — sliced  radishes,  cucumber  and  ^  to- 
matoes, boiled  potatoes,  Sidney  Smith  dressing, 
chopped  parsley  and  fr.  dr. 

Spring — different  green  salads  with  cresses  and 
fr.    dr. 


American  salads 273 Samp 

Tomato  Jelly — gelatine  soaked  with  water,  boiled 
with  strained  tomatoes,  celery,  bay-leave  and 
onions,  strain,  add  salt,  taragon  vinegar,  lemon- 
juice  and  paprika,  harden  in  moulds,  on  lettuce 
leave,  mayonnaise. 

Tomato  salad — served  on  lettuce  leave,  sliced  or 
quartered  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing; 
for  mayonnaise  quartered. 

Trophy — heart  of  lettuce  with  vegetables  and  goose 
liver. 

Uncle  Sam — heart  of  lettuce  with  eggs,  mayonnaise 
and    Tartare    sauce. 

Waldorf  salad — half  apples  in  dices  half  cut  up 
celery  branches,  paprika,  salt  and  lemon-juice, 
mayonnaise.     For  other  salads,  see  European  list. 

Salamandre — instrument  to  brown  Viands;  as  a  la 
Mornay. 

Salamandre — instrument  to  to  brown  top  of  dishes, 
gratin^e    without    cheese. 

Salicylid  acid — a  preservative  of  food. 

Sally  Lunns — sweet,  lis:ht  teacake;  a  kind  of  hot 
buttered    bunns,    called    solilemes. 

Salmagundi — a  medley  consisting  of  herrings,  on- 
ions,  ginger,   allspice   in  pie   dish. 

Salmi  or  salmis — name  given  to  ragout  of  partly 
roasted  game,  stewed  with  sauce,  wine,  bread 
and    condiments,    to    provoke    appetite. 

Salmon — Fr.,  Saumon;  Ger.,  Salm;  king  of  table 
fish ;  for  preparation  see  garnitures  and  brochet 
or  any  other  fish;   also   sauces. 

Saloop  or  salep — a  drink  for  invalids,  principal  in- 
gredient the  farina  of  tubers  of  boiled  orchids, 
flavored  with  spice,  sugar  and  wine. 

Salpicon — a  mince  of  chicken,  or  game  with  tongue, 
mushrooms,  truffles  and  f  oie  gras ;  generally 
used   as   a    stuffing. 

Salsifys — Fr.,  Salsifis;  oyster  plant;  root  when 
cooked  has   the   flavor   of   oysters. 

Salt — Fr.,  Sel;  Ger.,  Saltz;  chloride  of  sodium;  in- 
valuable in  the  combination  of  food  for  human 
beings;  without  salt  a  man  would  soon  die;  no 
matter  ho   wmuch    food   he   took    onto   himself. 

Salpetre — nitrate  of  potash;  used  in  pickling  meats 
and  to  give  red  color. 

Samp — American  food  consisting  largely  of  coarsely 
ground    maize,    softened    by    boiling. 


Samphire 274 Harvey  sauce 

SampMre — Fr.,  Bacile;  Ger.,  Meerfencliel;  ingredi- 
ent  in    salads    and   sauces. 

Samshoo — a  strong  liquor,  distilled  in  China  from 
the  yeast  fluid  in  which  boiled  rice  has  fer- 
mented   under    pressure. 

Sandeels — small   eel-like  fish. 

Sanders — a  preparation  of  minced  meat;  served  in 
shells  with  mashed  potatoes,   browned. 

Sandwiches — a  slice  of  meat  between  two  thin 
slices    of   buttered   bread. 

—  Club    sandwiches ;    two    slices    of    hot    toast    with 

a  _  slice    of    hot    broiled    ham,    a    lettuce    leave 
with     mayonnaise     and     sliced     chicken,     cold; 
served   on   hot   plate   in   folded   napkin. 
Sangaree — a     favourite     Indian     drink,     made     with 

port  wine,   spirits  or   beer;   flavor,    cooled. 
Santa — the    Jamaica    term    for    shrub. 
Sapoclilla — an     American    plum,     size     of    a     quince, 
rough     brown     rind,     flesh     yellowish -white     and 
deliciously    sweet;    also    called   Naseberry;    eaten 
v-hen    spotting    sets   in. 
Sapucaya — Paraaise    nuts;    Brazil;    closely    allied    to 

Brazil  nuts,  superior. 
Sai'v^ines — the    young    of    the    herring;    packed    in 
sweet   olive  oil   and  soldered  in  tins. 

—  Sardines   on  toast;   broiled,   split;    served  on  hot 

toast  with  lemons. 

Sarsaparilla — the  root  of  the  smilax  officinalis,  the 
essence  used  in  drinks;  like  ginger  ale;  of  me- 
dicinal   properties. 

Sassafras — tree  of  the  laurel  family;  decoction  of 
chips  used  as  medicinal  tea. 

Sauerbraten  a  la  foret  noir — braised  beef  in  vin- 
egar,   potatoes    and    truffies. 

Sauces — ^liquid  seasoning  employed  in  the  presen- 
tation of  food;   cold  sauces  at  end  of  list. 

Ready-made  sauces — a  few  of  many;  anchovy  cat- 
chup  and    sauce    of   anchovies. 

—  Catchup;    from   the    East   Indian,    kit-jab,    (to   get 

the   essence). 

—  Chilli    sauce ;    tomatoes,    green    peppers,    onions, 

sugar   and   vinegar. 

—  Chutneys    and    sauces ;    sharp    pickles    of    apples, 

raisins,  peppers,   spices,   etc. 

—  Harvey    sauce ;    for   fish    and    cold    meat,    not    as 

hot    and    offensive,    but    superior    to    most    so- 
called   English   sauces. 


Worchester  sauce 275 Sauces  116 

—  Lea   and   Perrins  Worchester   sauce ;    a   very  hot 

dark   sauce   for  meats,    rarebits,    fish,   etc. 

—  Salad    cream;    a    liquid    bottled    mayonnaise. 

—  Shrewsbury   pepper   sauce ;    prepared   from   whole 

chillies    by    simply    soaking    them    in    taragon 
vinegar,    bottled. 

—  Tabasco    pepper    sauce;     red,     specially    for    oy- 

sters;   small  bottles. 

—  Soho   sauce  by  Grosse  and  Blackwell;   the  magy- 

sians    of    Soho    square,    London. 
Butter  sauces — hot,  for  cold  and  sweet  sauces.     See 

further  down. 
■^Beurre  d'Aille;   garlic,  butter,  sauce. 

—  d'Anchois;    anchovie. 

—  a  I'Anglaise;    English  herb  butter. 

—  de    Becasse;    woodcock    butter. 

—  de   Brabant;    mustard   butter   with   herbs,    capers 

and    anchovies. 
■ — de   Cayenne;    cayenne  butter. 

—  de    Champignons ;    mushroom,    butter. 

—  d'ficrevisse;    crayfish,    butter. 

—  Epure ;    clarified   butter. 

—  de   Foie    Gras;    goose   liver. 

—  Fondue ;   melted  or  drawn  butter. 

—  de    Garcogne;    garlic   butter. 

—  Beurre    d'Homard;     lobster    butter. 
Lie — butter,    thickened    with    flour. 

—  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel;   butter  with  parsley. 

—  Manie ;  worked  with  flour. 

• — a    la    Montpellier;    cold   herb    butter. 

—  de    Mousseron ;    mushroom    butter. 

—  Mousseux;    frothed    butter. 

—  Mousseux    a    la   Parisienne ;    frothed    butter   with 

anchovies. 

—  de  Moutarde ;  mustard  butter. 

—  de   Muscade ;    nutmeg  butter. 

—  Noir ;    black   butter. 

—  a    la    Noisette ;    nut   brown,    clarified   butter. 

—  a   la   Perigord ;    truffle   butter. 

—  de   Persille;   parsley,   butter. 

—  Beurre   de   Piment ;    pimento,    butter. 

—  de  Provence;  garlic,  butter. 

—  de  Raifort ;  horseraddish,  butter. 

—  a   la   Ravigotte ;    herb,    buttei-. 

—  Rouge ;    red   butter. 

—  de   Saumon;    salmon,   butter. 

—  de  Truffes;  truffles,  butter. 


Sauce  Allemande 276 Sauce  a  T  Anglaise 

Sauce   allemande — veloute   with   eggs    and   lemon. 

—  Bechamel;    white    cream    sauce. 

—  Blanche — white    braise;     Schmorbriihe. 

—  Blond  de  Veau ;   veal  broth. 
Bouillon  blanc — white  veal  broth. 

—  Bouillon  sec ;   reduced  broth. 

— ^  Coulis    blanc;    white    cullis;    Grundsoce. 

—  Court    bouillon;    highly    seasoned    fish,    liquor. 

—  Demi-glace;     thickened    meat    gravy    with    wine. 

—  Duxelle;    brown    herb    gravy. 

—  Espagnole ;     brown     sauce    of    brown    coulis,     re- 

duced with  Rhine  wine. 

—  Fond  de  Mirepoix;   meat  and  vegetable  gravy. 
^—  Fond  a  poeler ;   white  broth  with  ham  and  vege- 
table. 

—  Fumet   de   Becasse;    essence    of   woodcock. 

—  Grand  bouillon  gras:    stock,   liquor  of   meat. 

—  Jus  aigre ;   sour  gravy. 

—  Marinade    crue ;     cold    marinade. 

—  Matignon;    white    wine,    reduced   with   roots. 

—  Mirepoix   au   fond   de   mirepoix;    meat   and   vege- 

table gravy. 

—  Bavigote ;  herb  sauce. 

—  Boux ;    blanc,   white   butter   and  flour  thickening. 
Sauce   aus  Abbatis — giblet   sauce;    Gefliigelklein. 

—  a    I'Achia;    piquante    sauce. 

—  a    I'Africaine;    brown    sauce    with    fried    onions 

and   truffles. 

—  Aigre    douce ;    sour    sweet    sauce. 

—  a    I'Ail;    garlic    sauce. 

—  aux  Airelles  Veinees;  moosberry  sauce. 

—  a     r  Albert;     white     wine     with     shallots,     horse- 

raddish,   vinegar,   cream  and  eggs. 

—  a    r Allemande;    veloute    with    eggs    and    lemon- 

juice. 

—  a    I'Alliaire;    garlicwort    sauce;    garlicherb. 

—  a   I'Ambassadrice;    chicken  puree. 

—  a    I'Americaine;    roots    and    lobster    shells,    roast 

in  butter  and  oil,  brandy,  madeire,  white  wine, 
tomatoes  and  coulis  blanc,  butter  and  lobster 
marrow. 

—  a     I'j^dmirale;      anchovie      sauce     with      chopped 

shallots    and     capers. 

—  a   I'Ammede;    greec    sorrel   sauce. 

—  a  I'Aneth;   dill  sauce. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;     beurre    lie    with    lemon-juice     and 

pepper. 


Sauces 277 A  la  Bourgeolse 

—  a    I'Aspicius;    of    annis,    dried    minth,    lazarroot, 

vinegar,    dates,    oil,    reduced    with    port    wine. 

—  a     I'Archeveque ;     herb     sauce     with     wine     and 

capers. 

—  aux  Attelets;    thick  white   sauce. 

—  a    I'Aurore;    white    cream    sauce    with    blond    de 

veau,  mushroom  essence,  butter,  ham. 

—  a   I'Avignonnaise;    white   cream   sauce   with   shal- 

lots. 

—  a     la     Bahama ;     fish     sauce     with     chillies     and 

onions. 

—  a   la   Banking ;    butter   sauce   with   egg-yolks   and 

parmesan   cheese. 

—  a  la  Bavaroise;   vinegar  sauce  with  crayfish  tails. 

—  a  la  Bearnaise;   eggs  with  butter  and  thick  stock, 

salt,    pepper,    lemon-juice    and    parsley ;    some- 
times  shallots   and  dragun  leaves. 

—  a  la  Bearnaise  rouge  ou  tomatoes;  with  tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Bechamel;   white  cream  sauce.  . 

—  Belle  sauce ;   cream  sauce  with  oysters  and  mush- 

rooms,  nutmeg, 

—  a  la  Bercy ;  white  sauce  with  parsley  and  lemon- 

juice. 
■ — a    la    Berlinoise;    Dutch    sauce    with    orange-juice, 

—  au  Beurre ;   butter  sauce. 

—  a  la   Bigarade;    of  bitter  oranges. 

—  a   la   Bistorte ;    atterswort   sauce. 

—  Blanche ;     white     sauce. 

—  a   la  Blette ;   blite  sauce. 

—  Blonde;    butter   sauce  with   stock. 

—  Blonde   au   poisson;    fish   sauce   with   fine    herbs, 

lemon  juice  and  white  wine. 

—  a  la  Bohemienne;  white  sauce  with  horseraddish. 

—  a  la  Bonne  Femme;   mushrooms,  parsley,   onions, 

carrots,   stock  and   crumbs. 

—  a    la    Bonnefoy;     meat    glaze    with    shallots    and 

maitre    butter. 

—  a    la    Bonne    Morue ;    codfish    sauce   with    onions, 

butter,    flour,    cream,    fish,   water,    eggs. 

—  a    la    Bordelaise ;     brown    sauce    with    red    Avine, 

shallots    and,  marrow. 

—  a     la     Bordelaise ;     blanche,     butter     sauce     with 

shallots,   white  wine   and  parsley. 

—  a    la  Bostonienne;    like  bohemienne;    white   sauce- 

with   horseraddish. 

—  a  la  Bourgeoise ;    brown  sauce  with  mustard  and 

taragon  vinegar. 


Sauces 278 A  la  Chivry 

—  a  la  BoTirgignonne ;   red  Burgundy  wine  sauce. 

—  a   la   Bourgignotte ;    the   sanae. 

—  a  la  Brantome ;   cream  sauce  with  grated  truffles, 

oysters,    liquor    and    white    wine. 
?—  a    la    Bressane    or    Bressoise ;    of    chicken    livers 
and   shallots. 

—  a  la  Bretonne ;   onions,  laurel,   butter,   stock  and 

white  wine,    coulis  blanc  and  peppers. 

—  a  la  Broglie;   brown  ham  sauce  with  madeira. 

—  Brune ;   brown  sauce. 

—  a    la    Calif ornienne ;    with    California    wine. 

—  aux   Capres ;    white   butter   and   cream   sauce   with 

capres;  for  fish  boiled  with  vinegar  and  meats. 

—  a    la    Caradoc ;    game    sauce    with    carrots,    white 

wine,    onions,   mushrooms,   truffles. 

—  a    la    Cardinale ;    red    fish    sauce ;    veloute    with 

fish  essence,   lemon-juice,   nutmeg,   red  lobster, 
butter. 

—  a    la    Carignan;  *  brown    sauce    with    essence    ol 

duck*  and  truflles. 

—  a    la    Carmelite ;    Burgundy    red    wine    with    ham 

and    onions. 

—  au   Gary ;    veloute  with  cream,   mushrooms,    cujry, 

fowl,   mush  and  onions. 
"—  Cassareep ;    Of  the  reduced   stock  of   cassawa. 
»—  a    la   Castillane ;    brown   sauce   with  red  peppers 

and    boiled   ham. 

—  a  la  Catalane ;   onions,   garlic  and  Spanish  sauce ; 

stock,    parsley,    cayenne,    pepper,    mint,    lemon- 
Juice   and  madeire,   mustard. 

—  a  la  Chambord;   brown  fish  sauce  with  red  wine 

and  currant  jelly. 

—  aux    Champignons ;     chopped    mushroom    in    but- 

ter,   Spanish    and    tomato    sauce,    wine,    lemons. 

■—a  la  Chasseur;  brown  sauce  with  game  essence 
and   hare    blood. 

»—  a  la  Chasseur  Polonais ;  herb  sauce  with  part- 
ridge  liver. 

?— Chateaubriand ;  brown  sauce  with  wine,  butter 
and    chopped   parsley. 

—  a  la   Cherbourgeoise ;   Dutch  sauce  with  crayfish, 

butter  and  shrimptails. 

—  a  la  Chevreuil ;   brown  sauce  with  wine  and  red 

pepper. 

—  de    Chevreuille    a    la    Creme ;    roe    venison    sauce 

with  cream. 

—  a   la   Chivry;    stock  white   sauce  with   herbs. 


Saucea 279 Aux  Ecrevlggei 

—  a  la  Ciboulette ;   white  sauce  with  egg-yolks  »nd 

chives,  fried  in  butter. 

—  Civet;    sauce   for  game,    stews;   flour  with  sugai 

and  butter,  roots  with  stock,  fond  and  jus, 
roasted  with  red  wine,  lemon-juice  with  stock 
of  the  meat. 

—  aux    Clams ;    like    oyster    sauce. 

—  au  Cognac ;   with  brandy. 

—  a  la  Colbert ;   butter  sauce  with  lemon-juice  and 

parsley. 

—  Colbert    a    I'Anglaise;    anchovie    essence,    harvey 

ond   Worchester   sauce,    glace,    butter. 

—  a    la    Colocasie;    colocasi    root    sauce,    taro-root, 

chestnut  taste,  farina. 

—  a  la    Comtesse;   white   sauce  with  fish   and  win» 

essence. 

—  au     Comcombres ;      brown     sauce     with     cut-up 

cucumber. 

—  au  Coq  des  Jardins;   ale-cost   sauce. 

—  aux  Coquille  de  St.  Jaques;  scallop,  cockle  sauce. 

—  a  la   Cordeliere;    madeire   sauce  with  goose   liver 

and  puree   of   truffles. 

—  aux  Corrinth ;   brown  currant  sauce. 

—  aux   Cornichons;    brown   gherkin   sauce. 

—  aux    Crabes ;    cream   sauce   with   crabs. 

— •  a   la    Creole ;    brown   tomato    sauce   with   shallots, 
wine,    chopped    sweet    peppers. 

—  au    Cresson;    butter    sauce   with    cresses. 

—  au  Cumin;   caraway  sauce;  Kiimmel  sose.- 

—  a   la    Cussy ;    brown    sauce   with   pigeon    essence 

and  butter. 

—  a  la   Szarina ;    brown  with  raisins   and   gherkins. 

—  a   la   Danoise ;    cream    sauce   with   chicken    pur£e 

and   herbs. 

—  a    la    Demil-deuille ;    stock,    white    with    chopped 

black    truffles. 

—  a   la   Demidoff;    madeire   sauce   with  truffles. 

—  Demi-glace;    thickened   meat   gravy. 

—  a    la    Diable ;    shallots,    Spanish    peppers,    herbs, 

garlic,  stock  and  vinegar,  brown  sauce,  toma- 
toes. 

—  a  la  Diplomate ;   cream  sauce  with  anchovie  but- 

ter   and    crayfish    essence. 

—  a    la    Duchesse ;    white    cream    sauce    with    cubet 

of  ham   and  butter. 

—  aux    Echallots ;    shallots. 

—  aux   Ecrevisses ;    crayfish  sauce. 


Sauces 280 A  la  Genolse 

—  a  r^picurienne;   white  butter  sauce  with  cayen- 

ne, pepper. 

—  a    I'Espagnole;    coulis   "brun   reduced  with   Bhine 

wine,    or   madeire,    or   a   roux   brun  with   flour 
and   stock,   mushrooms   and  tomatoes, 
-—a  I'Estragon;   brown  taragon  sauce. 

—  a    I'Etretat;    stock   white    sauce   with   fish  liquor. 

oysters,   mushroms   and   tomato   puree. 

—  Egg   sauce ;    served   mostly   with   boiled   fishes. 

—  a     la     Fermiere ;     mushroom     essence,     vealjus, 

veloutfi  with   onions,   egg-yolks. 

—  a   la   Figaro ;    mayonnaise   with   tomatoes,    cold. 

—  a    la    Financiere ;     onions    in    butter    with    ham, 

mushroom  and  truffles,  roots  and  herbs,  Rhine 
wine    and    Champagne   with    Spanish    sauce. 

—  aux    Fines    herbes ;    fine    herb    sauce,    egg-yolks, 

shallots,    white    wine    and    butter    sauce. 
•"-•  a^  la  Flamande ;  butter  sauce  with  mustard,  pars- 
ley and  seasoning. 

—  a   la   Fleurette ;    cream   sauce   with   flour,   butter, 

salt    and   pepper,    chives. 

—  a   la   Prancaise ;    taragon   sauce   with   tomatoes. 

—  Foyot     sauce ;     for    broiled    fish,     brown    Colbert 

sauce  with  taragon. 

—  au   Fumet;    game   essence   sauce. 

• —  a    la    Galipoli ;    for   boiled   fish,    Hollandaise,   ma- 
yonnaise and  anchovies. 

—  a   la   Garibaldi ;    brown   sauce   with  garlic,    curry, 

capres,   mustard,    anchovies,   vinegar. 

—  a    la    Gasconne;    white    sauce    with    herbs,    wine, 

yolks    and   anchovie   butter. 

—  a    la    Gelee    de    Groseilles ;    brown    sauce    of    cur- 

rant  jelly    and   port   wine. 

—  a    la    Generale ;    butter    sauce    with    sherry    and 

herbs. 

—  a  la  Genevoise ;  onions  in  butter,  red  wine,  mush- 

room and  truffles,  parsley,  laurel,  sieved  with 
fish  essence  and  coulis  brun,  boiled,  madeire, 
sieved  again;  crayfish  butter,  anchovie  es- 
sence, mushrooms  and  parsley,  cayenne  pepper. 

—  de    Gibier ;    brown    sauce    with    game    meat    and 

red   wine. 

—  a  la  Godard ;   like  garnitures. 

—  aux    Gorons;    sauce   with   Malaga   raisins. 

—  a    la    Genoise ;     Spanish    sauce    with    red    wine, 

parsley,  mushroom  and  anchovie  essence,  nut- 
meg and  lemon-juice. 


Sauces 281 A  la  Lyonnalsft 

—  des    Gourmets;    tomatoes    with    glace    and    stock, 

crayfish,    butter,    pepper,    shallots,    taragon. 

—  a   la    Grand   Veneur ;    strong   brown   game    sauce, 

reduced  with   vinegar. 

—  au    Gratin ;    brown    madeire    sauce    with    onions, 

mushrooms  and  parsley. 

—  Hache   sauce ;    brown   sauce   of  ham,   beets,   gher- 

kins,   mushrooms    and    cuisson    stock. 

—  a  la  Hanoverienne ;  brown  fowl  liver  sauce. 

—  a   la   Harrogate ;    meat   gravy  with  lemon,    claret, 

shallots   and   cayenne  pepper. 

—  a    la    Harlequin;    for    broiled    fish,    brown    sauce 

with  gherkins,  beets,  ham,  mushrooms,  tongue, 
green   peppers    and   eggs. 

—  a  la  Havraise;   fishbroth  with  white  sauce,  yolks 

and    cream. 

—  a    la    Hollandaise ;     egg-yolks,    butter,     salt    and 

pepper,    lemon-juice    and    taragon    vinegar. 

—  a   la  Holsteinnoise ;    white   fish   sauce  with  white 

wine. 

—  aux  Homard;   lobster  sauce. 

—  a  la  Hongroise;  brown  cream  sauce  with  paprica, 

—  aux    Huitres ;    white    sauce   with   oysters. 

—  a  la  Hussarde ;  white  sauce  with  ham  and  lemon 

slices. 

—  a   rindienne;    German  sauce  with   curry. 

—  a    ritalienne;     parsley,    mushroom    and    truffles, 

ham,    shallots,    butter    and    champagne ;    some- 
times served  with  broiled  fish, 

—  a  rivoire;  white  chicken  sauce. 

—  au  Jambon;  ham  and  shallots,  parsley  and  lemon- 

juice. 

—  a    la    Joinville ;    white    fish    sauce    with    lobster 

butter. 

—  a    la    Jolie-fille;    chicken   sauce   with   yolks,    but- 

ter  and   parslev. 
•—  au    Kari ;    curried    sauce. 

—  aux   Langoustes ;    crawfish    sauce. 

—  a    la    Leclerc;    larown    sauce    with    wine,    onioni 

and  mustard. 

—  Sauce   Liee;    thickened    sauce. 

—  a    la    Lithuanienne;     butter     sauce    with    grated 

bread    crumbs. 

—  a   la   Livonienne ;    sour   cream  sauce  with   leman- 

juice  and  hashed  fennel.  , 

—  a    la    Lyonnaise;     onions    in    butter,    herbs    and 

wine,    mushroom,    cetchup,    veloute,    eggs. 


Sauces 282 A  la  Minute 

—  aux   Macusson;    earthnut   sauce. 

'—  aux  Madeire ;   brown   sauce  with  madeire. 
^-  a   la   Maillet ;   madeire   sauce  with  egg-yolks  and 
shallots. 

—  a  la  Maintenon ;  cream  sauce  with  yolks,  cheese, 

cayenne    and    garlic. 

—  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel;  butter  sauce  with  blanched 

chopped    parsley. 

—  a    la    Maltaise ;    stock   white   sauce   with   shallots 

and  sherry. 

—  de  Maquerau   a  la   Temple;    fish,   herb,    sauce. ^ 

—  a  la  Marceau ;  brown  sauce  with  puree  of  garlic. 
- —  a   la   Marechale ;    white   sauce  with  stewed  mush- 
rooms. 

—  a  la  Marengo ;  fat  gravy  sauce,  reduced. 

•—  a   la   Marguery ;    Dutch   sauce  with  puree  of   oy- 
sters. 

—  a   la  Maire ;   wine  sauce  with  butter,  onions  and 

ham. 

—  a  la  Marie ;  same  as  Maire. 

—  a    la    Marigny;     herb    sauce    with    stuffed    olives 

and  button   mushrooms. 

—  a    la    Mariniere ;    fish    sauce    with    parsley    and 

shallots,   white. 
— -  a  la  Marjolaine;   marjoram  sauce. 

—  a    la    Marly;    white,    mushroom    sauce    with    but- 

ter  and    cayenne   pepper. 

—  aux   Marrons;    chestnut  sauce;   puree  with  coulis 

blanc   or   brun. 

—  a    la    Marseillaise ;    Dutch    sauce    with    puree    of 

tomatoes, 
'— a  la  Matelotte;   red  wine  with  garlic  and  herbs, 

coulis    brun,    wine    essence,    anchovies. 
"—  a    la    Matrimoniale ;    sweet-sour    sauce    of   brown 

sugar,   vinegar,   butter  and  flour. 

—  a   la   Mauresque;    shallot   sauce  with  fowl  blood 

and  fresh  butter. 

—  a    la    Maxmilienne ;    butter    sauce    with    anchovie 

essence. 

—  Mayonnaise;    chaude;   eggs,   oil,  mustard. 

—  Melee ;   mixed  sauces. 

—  a    la    M^nagere ;    onion    sauce    with   parsley    and 

chopped  anchovies. 
-—  de   Menthe ;    mint   sauce. 

—  a  la  Milanaise ;  brown  sauce  with  chopped  mush- 

rooms, parsley  and  garlic. 
>—  a  la  Minute ;  flour,  water  and  wine. 


Sauces 283 A  rOseille 

—  a   la   Mirabeau ;   white   sauce   with  garlic,   butter. 

—  Mistral ;    frothed  butter   sauce. 

—  a    la    Mode    de    Travemuend ;    sort    of   white    fish 

sauce. 

—  a   la   Moelle    de   Beouf;   brown   sauce   with   slices 

of  marrow. 

—  a    la    Monima;    brown    sauce   with   mushroom   es- 

sence and  red  wine,   Spanish  sauce. 

—  a  la  Mornay;   cream  sauce   with  fish  essence  and 

parmesan  cheese. 

—  a   la    Morue;    codfish   sauce   like  bonne  morue. 

—  a    la    Moscovite;    butter    sauce    with    caviar. 

—  aux   Monies ;    white   cream   sauce  with   fish   stock 

and  mussels. 

—  a  la  Mousseline;   cream  sauce  with  eggs. 

—  aux    Mousserons;    mushroom    sauce. 

—  a     la     Moutarde ;     mustard     sauce;     coulis    blane 

with   egg-yolks  and  mustard. 

—  a  la  Nantua;    crayfish   sauce  with   crayfish  tails. 

—  a   la   Napolitaine ;   onions  with   parsley,   ham   and 

herbs,    mushroom    and    butter,    Marsala,    toma- 
toes  and   fowl   essence,    Spanish   sauce. 
• —  a    la    Nesle ;     brown    sauce    with    wine,    shallots 
and  mushroom. 

—  a     la     Newcastle ;     fish     sauce    with    mushroom 

ketchup. 

—  aux  Nex  de  Chats;  mushroom  sauce. 

• —  a    la    Nivernaise ;    white    sauce   with    carrots    and 
turnips. 

—  a  la   Nonpareille ;    dutch  sauce  with  lobster,   but- 

ter  and   lobster  meat. 

—  a    la    Normande;    white    coulis   with   wine,    mush- 

rooms,   fish    essence,    oysters    and    yolks,    but- 
ter and  lemon.    ■ 

—  a  la   Novaroise ;    tomato   sauce  with  herbs,   garlio 

and  butter, 

—  aux  Oeufs ;  butter  sauce  with  chopped  hard  eggs. 

—  aux    Oignons;    onion    sauce. 

—  aux    Orange ;    brown   sauce   with   juice   and   peel, 

for  ducks. 

—  a    la.    d'Orleans;     veloute    with    mushrooms    and 

wnite    wine,    crayfish     butter,    fresh    butter. 

—  a    la    Orly ;    tomato    sauce    with    mushrooms. 

—  aux  Orange ;   golden  agaric  sauce. 

—  a   rOseille;    sorrel  sauce. 


Sauces 284 Aux  Porto 

—  au  Pain  a  I'Anglaise;  English  white  hread  sauce, 

for    fowl,     crumbs    with    milk,    butter,    spices 
and  cream. 

—  a    la    Palermitaine ;    vinegar    with    peppers,    eggs, 

butter,   tomatoes,   salt  and  pepper. 

—  au   Paprika ;    red   pepper   sauce   with    cream   and 

stock. 

—  a    la    Parisienne ;    white    wine    with    truifles    and 

parsley,    veloute,    salt,   pepper. 
' —  au  Parmesan ;   white  sauce  with  cheese  and  egg. 
.  —  a   la   Pauvre   Homme ;    brown   sauce  with  tomato 
ketchup    and    anchovies    essence. 

—  a  la  Pluche ;   butter  sauce  with  herb  leaves. 

—  a    la    Poreau ;     sauce    with    blanched    leaves    of 

parsley    and   taragon. 

—  a    la    Perigeuax    or   Perigord ;    brown   sauce   with 

truffles. 

■ —  aux  Porsil ;   butter,    sauce  with  chopped  parsley. 

' —  a    la   Persillade ;    oil  with   lemon-juice,    salt,    pep- 
per,   herbs,    mustard. 

—  a  la  Petit  Deuil;   truffle  sauce. 

—  a  la  Picadilly ;   vinegar  with  stiallots,   demi-glace, 

anchovie  esence,   mustard. 
• —  aux    Picholines ;    with    small    olives. 

—  a    la    Piemontaise ;    brown    sauce    with    anchovie 

essence;  butter  and  white  truffles. 

—  aux  Piments ;   brown  sauce  with   chillies. 

■ —  Piquante ;     sharp     brown     sauce    with     gherkins, 
capers,    shallots,    pepper   and   anchovies. 

—  a    la    Pluche    Verte ;    butter,    sauce    with    herb- 

leaves. 

—  a  la  Poele ;  spiced  herb  sauce  of  veal  broth. 
■= —  au  Poirreau ;   porret  leek  sauce. 

• —  au    Poisson ;     butter    with    anchovies    and    fish 

.     stock. 
• —  a  la  Poivrade ;  shallots,  ham,  pepper  and  vinegar, 
brown   sauce,   red  wine  and  jus,   lemon. 

—  aux  Poivron  Doux ;   sweet  pepper  sauce. 

—  Polignac   sauce ;   Hollandaise   sauce  with   carrots^ 

truffles    and    anchovies. 
— —  a  la  Polonaise ;    sour-sweet,   raisins  and  currants 

in    coulis    brun,    vinegar,     sugar,     lemon    and 

almonds. 
•—  aux    Pommes ;    apple    sauce. 
«—  aux    Porreaux ;    Perlzwiebel,    chibbal    sauce. 

—  aux    Porto ;    Port   wine    sauce. 


Sauces 285 A  la  St.  Menehould 

—  a    la    Portugaise;    brown    sauce,    madeire,    stock, 

herbs,    peppers,    oranges. 

—  a  la  Poulette;   German  sauce  with  parsley,  white 

and    creamy. 

—  a    la    Pourade ;    hutter    sauce   with    wine,    vinegar 

and    herbs. 
- —  a    la    Princesse ;    white    cream    sauce    with    fowl, 
glaze    and    butter. 

—  a  la  Printanniere ;   veloute  with  herb  butter. 

—  a   la   Provencale;    fish   essence   with   roots,    herbs 

and    wine,    tomatoes    and   glaze,    lemon. 

—  a    la    Rachel;     bearnaise    tomatee    with    spanisb 

sauce. 

—  au  Raifort;   horseraddish  sauce. 

—  aux    Raisins     de     Corinthe ;     brown     sauce    with 

currants. 

—  a   la   Ravigote   Blanche ;    with   herb    sauce,    coulis 

blanc,   white  wine,   butter. 

—  a   la  Ref orme ;   pepper  sauce  with  port  wine  and 

red   currant- jelly. 

—  a  la  Regence ;  brown  sauce  with  wine  and  truffles. 

—  a    la    Reine ;    fowl    puree    with    coulis    blanc    and 

almonds,    stock   and   cream,   glaze. 

—  a   la   Reine  Marie ;   brown   sauce   with  port  wine, 

shallots,    parsley   and   anchovie   essence. 

—  a  la  Remoulade ;   herb  sauce  with  shallots,  herbs, 

butter,   olive  oil,  mustard,    eggs. 

—  a    la    Ricardo ;    brown    game    sauce,    with    sherry 

and   chopped  onions. 

—  aux   Ricardots;    scallop   sauce. 

—  a  la  Richelieu;  of  salmon,  roots,  white  wine  and 

madeire,   fish  essence,   coulis  br'un,   truffles  and 
butter. 

—  a   la   Robert ;    brown   onion   sauce   with  gherkins. 

—  a  la   Roi ;    butter,   cream   sauce   with  cranberries. 

—  a  la  Romaine;    currants,   raisins,   pignolis,   water, 

sugar,    vinegar,    brown   sauce,    herbs. 

—  a    la    Royale;    white    coulis    with    fowl    essence, 
•  wine,    truffles    with    stock. 

—  a  la  Rubens ;  fish  sauce  with  wine,  butter,  herbs, 

yolks. 

—  a    la    Russe;    tomatoes    with    stock,    red    pepper, 

taragon,    butter,    shallots. 

—  a  la  St.  Cloud ;  tomato  sauce  with  taragon  butter. 

—  a   la    St.    Menehould;    cream   sauce   with   chopped 

parsley    and    mushrooms. 


Sauces 286 A  la  Velour 

—  a    la    St,    Marceau ;    brown    sauce    with   puree    of 

garlic. 

—  a    la    St.    Marsan ;    brown    sauce   with,   wine    and 

truffles. 

—  Salmis   sauce ;    game    essence  with  madeire,    truf- 

fles,   brown    coulis,    livers. 

—  a  la   Sauge;    sage  sauce,   for  pork  or  goose. 

—  Saupiquet;    piquante   onion   sauce. 

—  a    la    Pompadour ;     shallots,    mushrooms,    butter, 

broth,    eggs,    cream,    parsley,    lemon-juice. 

—  a  la  Saxonne ;   fish  sauce  with  shallots,   mustard, 

wine. 

—  a   la   Sicilienne ;   brown   sauce  with  game   essence 

with  fried  onion  rings. 

—  a   la    Simon ;    onion   sauce   with    mustard,    butter, 

parsley. 

—  a  la  Soubise ;  white  onion  sauce. 

—  a   la   Soy  or   Soj'a ;    of  Japan  beans  with  butter, 

brown   fish   essence,   veloute. 

—  Shrimp  sauce;  mostly  served  with  boiled  salmon. 

—  a    la    Soyer;    white    fish    sauce    with    herbs,    egg- 

yolks   and   cream. 

—  a    la    Stragotte ;    game    sauce   with   puree    of   to- 

mato and  madeire. 

—  a  la  Suisse ;   butter  sauce  with  yolks,   cream  and 

broth. 

—  a  la   Sultane ;   game   sauce  with  raisins   and  port 

wine.  _^ 

—  au    Supreme;    chicken   cream    sauce. 

—  a   la   Talpache ;    game    sauce   with   garlic. 

—  a  la   Tartare ;    oil,   herbs,   yolks,    butter. 

—  a   la    Texienne;    brown   gauce   with   tomatoes,    oil 

and  garlic. 

—  aux  Tobinambourg ;   of  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

—  a   la   Tortue ;    turtle    sauce,    ham,   onions,    truffles^ 

herbs,   mushrooms,   madeire,   coulis  brun,   toma- 
toes,   vealjus    and    anchovie    essence. 

—  a    la    Toulouse ;    white    coulis    with    fowl,    truf- 

fle   and    mushroom    essence,    cream,    yolks. 

—  a   la   Trianon ;    like   bearnaise ;   with   truffles. 

—  a  la  Duxelle ;   brown  sauce  with  herbs  and  wine. 

—  a    la    Valaisienne ;     butter    sauce    with    naustard, 

vinegar  and  parsley. 

—  a  la  Valois ;    brown,    taragon  and   shallots   sauce. 

—  a  la  "Varsovienne ;  white  cream  sauce  with  horse- 

radddish  and  orange-juice. 

—  a   la   Velour ;    cream   sauce   with  parsley. 


Sauces 287 A  la  Grlblche 

—  a  la   Velout6;    stock  white   sauce. 

—  a  la   Venaiaon;    currant  jelly   sauce. 

—  a    la    Venitienne;    herbs,    taragon,    ham,    vinegar 

and  coulis  blanc. 

—  au  Verjus ;   sour  wine  sauce. 

—  au  Vert-pre;  green  herb  sauce. 

—  a  la  Victoria ;   of  shallots,  mushrooms  and  lemon 

juice. 

—  a    la   Viennoise;    white    sauce   with   puree    of   to- 

matoes   and    red    pepper. 

—  a    la    Villageoise;     sauce    with    white    puree    of 

onions, 

—  a     la     Villeroy;     white     coulis     with     mushroom 

sauce,  egg-yolk  and  cream. 

—  Waterfish;    or   water    suchet;    butter    sauce   with 

cubes   of   vegetables. 

—  a   la   Yankee;   American  wine  sauce. 

—  a    la    Yorkshire ;     Spanish    sauce    with    currants, 

orange-juice,   port  wine,   peels. 

—  a    la    Zingara ;     shallot    sauce    with    parsley    and 

lemon-juice. 
Sauces   cold — aspic;    Fleischsulze ;    jelly. 

—  a    I'Anglaise;     horseraddish    with    puree    of    to- 

matoes. 

—  a    I'Argenteuil;     mayonnaise    with    white    sauce, 

parsley. 

—  a   la    Berlinoise;    mayonnaise   with    cubes    of   red 

currant   jelly. 

—  a    la    Casanova;    with    shredded   whites,    chopped 

yolks   and   truffles. 

—  a  la  Chantilly;  horseraddish  cream  sauce;   as  for 

ham    a    la    Chantilly. 

—  chaud-froid;    blond,    jellied,   white   gravy. 

—  Chaud-froid    a    la    Chasseur;    brown    meat    gravy 

with   hare's  blood. 

—  Chaud-froid    a    la    Reine ;    white    gravy    with    ar- 

tichoke purle. 

—  Chaud-froid    a    la     Russe;     white    gravy,     jellied 

with    vinegar,    parsley,    taragon,    horseraddish. 

—  s    la    Cumberland;    julienne    of    peel    with    jelly, 

madeire,   shallots. 

—  a   la   Figaro ;   mayonnaise  with   tomatoes. 

—  a    la    G6noise;    cold    with    spruce    seeds   and   pis- 

tachios. 

—  a   la   Glouchester;    mayonnaise  with   taragon  vin- 

egar and  leaves. 

—  a    la    Gribiche ;    with    chervil    and    capers. 


Sauces 288 A  la  Grant 

—  a  la  Hessoise;  horseraddish,  cream  sauce. 

—  a     la     Livournaise ;     mayonnaise     with     anchovies 

and   parsley. 

—  Mandram;     shallot     and     cucnmher     sauce     with 

chillies. 

—  Mayonnaise;     egg-yolk,     salt,     English     mustard, 

oil,   taragon     vinegar. 

—  a   la   Maximilienne ;    tartare    sauce   with  tomatoes 

and    taragon. 

—  a   la   Mentho ;   mint   sauce,    vinegar  with   chopped 

mint. 

—  a  la  Mousquetaire ;   cold  herb  sauce. 

—  a    la    Nantaise ;    green   herb    sauce   with   pounded 

lobster. 

—  a   la    Nicoise ;    green   herb    sauce   with   eggs. 

—  a   la   Norvegienne ;    herb   sauce   with   egg-yolks. 

—  a     rOxfordienne;     mustard    sauce    with     current 

jelly. 

—  a  la  Oyonnaise;  mayonnaise  with  game  gravy. 

—  a  la  Persillade ;  green  sauce  with  herbs. 

—  a   la   Polonaise ;  mustard    sauce   with   lemon   and 

orange   juice. 

—  a  la  Prince   de  Galle ;    sort  of  mayonnaise  sauce. 

—  a     la     Ravigotte ;     mayonnaise     with     herbs     and 

mustard. 

—  a  la  Remoulade ;  mayonnaise  with  herbs,  mustard, 

capres    and    gherkins. 
— -  a    la    Russe ;    meat    stock   with    oil    and   whipped 
cream. 

—  a    la    Suedoise;    white    sauce,    horseraddish    and 

vinegar. 

—  a     la     Tartare;     mayonnaise     sauce    with    herbs, 

anchovie  essence. 

—  a  la  Verte;   mayonnaise  with  plenty  of  herbs. 

—  a  la  Uhde ;    tomato   sauce  with  fried   onions   and 

shredded,    dried  haddock. 

—  Universelle ;    sharp    sauce    of   ketchup,    mushroom 

essence,  anchovie  essence,  vinegar,  etc. 
Sweet  sauces — sabayon;   frothed,  wine,   cream  sauce. 
Chaudeau   and   chambayon — practically   the    same. 

—  a    la    Daniel    Webster ;    apricot    marmelade    with 

Tokay  and  hot  water. 

—  a    la    Diaz ;    rum   with    sugar,    vanille,    peel,    Mar- 

cella  wine. 

—  a  la  Diplomat;   syrup   sauce  with  flavorings. 

—  Douce ;   sweet  sauce. 

—  a    la    Grant ;    peach    and    Champagne    sauce. 


Sauces 289 Scallions 

—  Hard  sauce;   frothed  sauce   of  butter  and  sugar; 

nutmeg,   frozen. 

—  a   la   Medicis;    chocolade   flavored   cream   sauce. 

—  a  rOrgeade;   almond  milk  sauce. 

—  a    la    Polonaise;    of    peel,     almonds,    nuts,    wine, 

raisins,    sugar,    arrow  root. 

—  Richelieu  a  la  Vanilla ;   vanille  sauce  with  kirsch 

and  cherries. 

—  a    la    Sady    Carnot ;    butter,    flour,    water,    sugar, 

red  wine,   vanille,   lemon-peel,    nuts,   currants. 

—  des   Soldats;    cream   sauce  with   almonds. 

—  a    la    William ;    cream    sauce   with    cinnamon. 
Sauce   boats — or    sauce    bowls;    vessels    to    hold   the 

fluid   sauce. 

Saucers — a  small  dish,  deeper  than  a  plate,  in  which 
a  cup  is  set  at  table,  originally  intended  to 
hold  sauce ;   from  the   French  sauciere. 

Saucisses — Fr.  for  sausages. 

Sauerbraten — sour  roast;  German  specialty;  mar- 
inaded and  roasted  with  herbs  and  roots. 

Sauerkraut   or   sour   crout — pickled   cabbages. 

Sausages — Ger.,  Wiirste;  Fr.,  Boudins  or  sausisses; 
articles  of  food  consisting  of  meat,  minced  and 
highly  seasoned,  enclosed  in  a  cylindrical  case 
of  skin  from  the  intestin  of  an  animal;  in 
America  sausages  are  eaten  broiled  or  saute 
for  breakfast  mostly;  while  in  Europe  they  are 
eaten   in   all   forms  hot   or   cold. 

—  Deerf  ot     sausages ;     long     and     thin,     broiled     or 

saute ;    Deerf oot    farm. 

—  a   la    Parmentier;    braised   with   mashed  potatoes. 

—  Country    sausages;    thick    and    short,    broiled    or 

saute. 

—  a   la    Gastronome ;    with   puree   of  pork   and  peas 

or    with    mashed    potatoes    gratine,    this    latter 
prevails    in    America. 
Saute — to    toss    in    butter,    in    shallow   pan. 
Sauterne — a     Bordeaux     wine,     made^    from     white 
grapes,    allowed   to    remain   hanging    some    time 
upon  the  vine. 
Saveloys — Fr.,    Servelats;    short  thick   sausages,   for- 
merly  made   of   pig   brains. 
Scad — fish   about  the    size   of   a   herring. 
Scalding — plunging   into   violent   heat;    such   as   fat; 

process    called   blanching. 
Scallions — another  name  for  shallots. 


Scallops 290 Seasons 

Scallops — Fr.,  Potencies ;  clean  and  handsome  shell- 
fish; served  with  lemon  when  fried;  for  complete 
list    of   preparations    see    sauces    and    crabs. 

Scalloped — fish  or  other  food  may  he  served  scal- 
lopped  in  the  form  of  scallops. 

Schenk   beer — small   beer   brewed    in   Bavaria. 

Schnapps — Dutch  name  for  Holland's  Gin  or 
Shiedam. 

Scrapple,  Philadelphia — cold,  broiled  or  fried,  mince 
of  capon  and  other  meats,  highly  spiced,  in 
square   slices. 

Scones — famous  Scotch  cakes;  butter,  flour,  sugar, 
milk,    baked    on    gridiron,    hot. 

Scorzonera — ^roots  like  oyster  plant;  food  for  in- 
valids ;    nutty   flavor. 

Scotch  ales — ^brewed  with  Russian  honey;  peculiar- 
ly sweet. 

Scotch  broth — of  mutton. 

Scotch   whiskey — of   tarry   flavo*. 

Scotch  woodcock — ^broiled  eggs  with  anchovies  and 
parsley   on  toast. 

Scoter — the  black  diver. 

Scullery — a    place    for    washing    plates    and    dishes. 

Scullion — a  dish  washer. 

Sea  bass — see  bars. 

Sea  hedgehog — or  sea  urchin;    a   shellfish. 

Sea  kale — chou  marin;  grows  among  the  sand  of 
seaside  places,  in  appearance  somewhat  like 
celery;    a   superior  vegetable. 

—  a    la    Russe ;    stewed    with    horseraddish,    cream, 

cheese   and  hollandaise. 
Seasons — almost    every    kind    of    food    has    its    par- 
ticular  season,    when  it  is   at   its  prime. 

—  January ;   beef,  doe,  venison,  lamb,  mutton,  pork, 

veal,  fowls  and  ducks;  carb,  cod,  crabs,  lob- 
sters, mussels,  pike,  trout,  salmon,  smelts, 
soles  and  turbot;  Brussels  sprouts,  cabbages, 
celery,  endive,  lettuce,  carrots,  onions,  par- 
snips, potatoes,  sorrel,  turnips,  Winterspi- 
nach;  forced  asparagus,  cucumbers,  Jerusa- 
lem artichokes,  mushrooms,  almonds,  apples, 
chestnuts,   grapes,   nuts,    oranges,   pears. 

—  February ;    beef,    lamb,    mutton,   pork,    veal,   fowl, 

geese,  ducklings,  guenea  fowls  and  hares; 
partridges  and  pheasants,  rabbits,  turkeys, 
woodcocks;  carp,  cod,  crabs,  lobsters,  mack- 
erel,  mussels,    salmon,   smelts   and  soles.     Tur- 


Seasons 291 Seasons 

bot  and  whiting.  Vegetable  as  in  January 
with  spinach  and  sea  kale;  forced  vegetables 
as    before.      Fruits    as    in    January. 

—  March;    beef,    mutton,    pork,    veal,    lamb;    fowls 

and  guine  fowls,  pigeons,  rabbits  and  tur- 
keys; eels  and  crabs,  carp  and  cod,  lobsters, 
mussels  and  mackerel,  salmon,  trouts,  smelts 
and  soles,  turbot  and  whitebait;  artichokes, 
Jerus.  sprouts,  cabbages,  carrots,  celery,  mush- 
rooms, onions,  potatoes,  sea  kale,  sorrel,  spin- 
ach, turnips,  forced  asparagus,  beans,  cucum- 
bers, rhubarb ;  forced  strawberries,  fruits'  as 
in   other   months ;    January    and    February. 

—  April ;    beef,    lamb,    mutton,    veal ;    fowls,    guinea 

fowls,  squabs,  rabbits;  carp,  cods,  crabs,  eels, 
herrings,  lobsters,  herrings,  mackerel,  mus- 
sels, salmon,  smelts,  soles,  turbot,  whitebait, 
whithing;  asparagus,  beans,  carrots,  cucum- 
bers, endive,  lettuce,  mushrooms,  onions,  par- 
snips, peas,  radishes,  sea  kale,  sorrel,  spinach, 
early  strawberries,  forced  apricots,  cherries, 
strawberries. 

—  May;     beef,     lamb,     mutton,     pork,     veal;     fowls, 

guinea  fowls,  geese,  squabs,  rabbits,  duck- 
lings ;  carp,  crabs,  haddock,  halibut,  lobster, 
mackerel,  pike,  mussels,  perch,  salmon,  smelts, 
sole,  trout,  turbot,  whitebait;  artichokes,  as- 
paragus, cabbages,  carrots,  cauliflower,  cucum- 
ber, endive,  beans,  peas,  onion,  radishes,  sea 
kale;  all  salads,  sorrel,  spinach,  turnips; 
apples,  cherries,  melons,  pears,  strawberriesj 
forced   apricots,    cherries,   peaches. 

—  June;    beef,    lamb,    mutton,    pork,    veal,    venison; 

fowls  and  geese,  squabs,  poulardes,  rabbits; 
fish  as  before  without  shellfish;  vegetables 
as  before,  new  potatoes,  apples,  apricots,  cher- 
ries, pears,  melons,  gooseberries,  raspberries, 
strawberries. 

—  July;    beef,    buck,    venison,    lamb,    mutton,    veal; 

chickens,  ducks,  fowls,  geese,  squabs,  pou- 
lardes, plovers  and  quails,  turkey;  fish  as 
before  with  lobster  and  crabs;  vegetables  as 
before  with  oyster  plant;  fruits  as  before 
with   pineapples   and   plums. 

—  August ;    beef,    buckvenison,    grass    lamb,    mutton 

and  veal;  chickens,  ducks,  fowls,  geese,  moor- 
game,   tame  pigeons,  turkeys,  plovers  and  rab- 


Seasons  292  Seltzer  water 

bits,  wild  ducks ;  fruits  as  before ;  fish  as 
before ;  vegetables  as  before  without  celery ; 
fruits  with  figs  and  filberts,  peaches  and 
nectarines. 

—  September;     beef,    buck    venison,    pork,    mutton, 

veal;  chickens,  ducks,  fowl,  geese,  grouse  and 
hares,  moorgame,  partridges,  pigeons,  plovers, 
rabbits,  teal;  turkey,  wild  ducks;  fish  without 
salmon,  but  oysters;  vegetables  with  celery, 
tomatoes;  fruits  as  before  with  quinces  and 
walnuts. 

—  October;    beef,   doe,   venison,   mutton,   pork,   veal; 

cliickens,  ducks,  fowls,  geese,  grouse,  hares, 
moore  game,  partridges,  pheasants,  pigeons, 
rabbits,  snipe,  teal,  turkeys,  plovers,  wild 
ducks;  barbel,  brill,  carp,  cockles,  cod,  crabs, 
dories,  eels,  haddoks,  hallibut,  herrings,  lob- 
sters, mullet,  mussels,  oysters,  perch,  pike, 
salmon,  trout,  shrimps,  smelts,  soles,  turbot, 
whiting,  artichokes,  cabbages,  sprouts,  car- 
doons,  cauliflowers,  carrots,  celery,  endive, 
leeks,  onions,  parsnips,  peas,  potatoes,  rad- 
ishes, salads,  shallots,  tomatoes,  truffles,  tur- 
nips; winter  spinach;  almonds,  apples,  nuts 
and  figs,  grapes,  medlars,  mulberries,  pears 
and    quinces. 

—  November;     beef,     doe,     venison,     lamb,     mutton, 

pork,  veal;  chickens,  ducks,  geese,  grouse, 
hares,  larks,  moorgame,  partridges,  pheasants, 
squabs,  rabbits,  turkeys,  wild  ducks ;  fish  as 
in  October;  vegetables  as  in  October;  fruits, 
apples,    almonds,    nuts,    medlars,    pears. 

—  December;     beef,     doe,     venison,     lamb,     mutton, 

pork,  veal,  capons,  chickens,  ducks,  fowls, 
geesOj  grouse,  guinea  fowls,  hares,  moorgame, 
partridges,  pheasants,  pigeons,  quails,  snipes, 
turkeys,  teal  and  wild  ducks;  fish  as  in  Jan- 
uary; vegetables:  beet  root,  sprouts,  cabbages, 
eardoons,  carrots,  celery,  endive,  herbs,  Jerus. 
artichokes,  kale,  leeks,  onions,  potatoes,  oy- 
ster plint,  shallots,  spinach,  truffles;  fruits 
as  in  November.  

Seasonings — are  made  of  herbs,  spices,  condiments 
and    numerous    other    articles. 

Segul — a    silvery    trout   of    the    lakes    of    Savoy. 

Seibling — a   fresh  water  fish,    resembling   the   trout. 

Seltzer    water — an    aerated    water    from    Seltz,    Ger. 


Semola 293 Shoulders 

Semola — a  food  for  invalids,  made  from  wheat  flour. 
Semolina — Fr.,   Semoule;   Ger.,  Gries;  the  large  hard 

grains    of    wheat    flour,    separated    from    the    fine 

flour,   gruau  bread    is  made  with  it;   gnochis  are 

also    made   with   it. 
Sercial — a   light   and   dry  madeire   wine. 
.  Service  berries — small  apple  like  fruit. 
Serviettes — a   table-napkin. 
Shads — Fr.,    Aloses;     Ger.,    Alsen;    a    fresh    water 

herring    of    great    size. 

—  Broiled;    served    with    lemon    and   maitre    butter. 

—  Sur    planche;    planked;     on    plank    of    pinewood, 

roasted  or  baked  with  the  roe  and  Parisian 
potatoes  risolle;  delicious;  Indian  invention; 
40   minutes. 

—  Shad  roe;  broiled;   served  with  lemon  and  maitre 

butter. 
Shaddocks — Fr.,    Pamplemousse ;     grape    fruit ;    yel- 
low   rind,    flesh    of    subacid    flavor;    serve    halved 
with  fine  sugar,  tea-spoon,  finger  bowl ;   see  ices. 

—  Grapefruit    supreme,    or    cocktail;    in    glass    with 

cherries,    maraschino,    mint    leave ;    serve    with 
fine    sugar,    tea-spoon,    on    small    plate,    fancy 
paper;   no  finger-bowl. 
Shallots — Fr.,   Eschallotes;   of  the  onion  tribe;   deli- 
cate flavor. 
Shank — that    part    of    the    leg    which    extends    from 

the   knee    to    the    foot. 
Shark — eaten    as   broiled   steaks   and   cold   salads. 
Shchi — Russian  national  dish;  boiled  puree  of  pick- 
led  cabbages   with   sour   cream.  ' 
Sheep~see  mutton   and  lamb. 
Sheep's   trotters — for   preparations    see    sauces. 
Sheep's    head    fish — large     and    valuable    American 
fish;   see  pike  and  sauces,  garnitures. 

—  au    Court    Bouillon;    with    vegetables,    tomatoes, 

green  peppers  and  poached. 

Shellfish — term  applied  to  any  fish  covered  with  a 
shell;   like  oysters,   clams,   etc. 

Sherbet — sorbet;  refreshing  drink,  of  fruit-juice, 
frozen,  sweetened  and  flavored.  The  names  most- 
ly indicate  the  liquor  used;   see  ices. 

Sherry — vin  de  Xeres,   a  Spanish  light  colored  wine. 

Shiraz — a    Persian    wine. 

Shortbread — a   delicious  kind  of  bread. 

Shoulders — the  bladebones  with  forelegs. 


ShowTjread 294     Smelts 

Showbread — loaves    of    the    finest    flour,     eaten    in 

synagoges. 
Shreds — tearing  up  food  into   julienne. 
Shrimps — Crevettes;    Flohkrebs;    Krabben;    peculiar 

little  curled-up   shellfish. 
Shrub — made     of     sugar,     fruit,     acid,     flavor     and 

spirits;    a    kind    of    sherbet. 
Siberian  crabs — small  apples  of  the  size  of  cherries. 
Side  boards — a   kind  of  buffet  with  a  back   of  mir- 

rorglass. 
Sieve — mostly  made   of  wire;   also  called  tammy. 
Sillery — a   kind  of  none   sparkling   champagne;    fine 

bouquet. 
Silversides — American    fish;     see     smelts. 
Simgo — a  native  African  drink  from  the  sap  of  the 

Sagus;    dark    colored   and   strong. 
Simmer — to   boil   slowly. 
Simnel  cake — sweet  rich  flat   cake. 
Sinews — tough   tendinous   parts   of   an   animal;    Seh- 

nen. 
Singeing — to    burn    away    the    hair   like    feathers    of 

poultry. 
Sippets — garnish  pieces  of  toast;   for  ragout,   etc. 
Sirloin — derived    from    surlonga ;     whole    meat    and 

bone    of    one    side,    betweeu    foreribs    and    rumb, 

two   of  these  sides  togethei*  is  called  baron. 
Skate — Fr.,   Eaye;    Ger.,   Meerrochen. 
Skewers — small  splints  of  wood  or  metal  to  fasten 

small  joints  of  meat. 
Skin — the     outside     coverini,     of     animal     or    fruit; 

gives  gelatines. 
Skirrets — Fr.,    Cherviss;    Gt/.,    Zuckerwurzeln ;    root 

vegetable. 
Slapjacks — delicious    American    cakes. 
Slaw — shredded     cabbage     with     French     dressing; 

eaten  as  salad. 
Slice — Fr.,   Tranche;   a  broad  flat  piece   cut  off  any 

material. 
Slipcoat    cheese — a    variety    of    cream    cheese,    re- 
sembling   butter    in    consistency. 
Sloes — the    fruit    of    the    black    thorne;    Blaubeere; 

used   in    sloe    gin. 
Smelts — Fr.,   Eperlans;    Ger.,    Stinte;    delicate   look- 
ing   silvery    fish,    small. 
—  Smelts,   split   and  broiled;    serve  with  lemon  and 
maitre  butter. 


Smelts 295 Souffl6 

—  Fried  smelts;  usually  five  on  a  skewer;  serve 
with   tartare  sauce  and  lemon. 

Snails — Fr.,  Escargots;  Ger.,  Schnecken;  taken  out 
of  shell  and  washed;  mostly  eaten  baked,  put 
back  in  shell  with  maitre  butter;  see  sauce, 
garnitures. 

Snipes — Fr.,  Becassines;  Ger.,  Schnepfen;  wood- 
cock is  a  large  snipe;  in  season  in  winter  months, 
cooked  without  being  drawn,  "mit  dem  Dreck;'* 
see  fowls. 

Socles — a  pedestal;  artistic  cookery;  made  of  bread, 
rice  or  other  material. 

Soda — bicarbonate  of  soda,  combined  with  farina 
and  acid  makes  a  good  leaven. 

Soda  water — misnomer;  "carbonated  water"  is 
more  appropriate;  contains  no  soda  but  car- 
bonic gas;  sold  in  spindle  shaped  bottles,  to 
keep  water  on  kork  instead  of  gas  which  would 
escape. 

Soles — Fr.,  Soles;  Ger.,  Seezungen;  flatfish,  mostly 
enten  fried,  or  in  filets  with  white  wine,  see 
pike,    sauces    and   garnitures. 

Solferino — a  brilliant  deep  pink  color. 

Sop — anything  dipped  in  liquid  food  and  intended 
to  be  eaten. 

Sopsavine — an  apple  of  yellow  and  red  color. 

Sorbet — Fr.    for    sherbet;    see    there. 

Sorrel — Fr.,  Oseille;    Ger.,    Sauerampfer. 

Sorrel  bounce — drink  made  of  rum  soaked  leaves 
and    flowers    of    hibiscus    sudbariffa. 

Sot-l'y  Laisse — "fool  will  leave  it;"  the  tail  or 
parsons   nose  of  poultry. 

Soubise — sauce  made  chieflv  with  onions. 

Suchet — water   suchet;    fish   liquor. 

Souffles — blown-up ;  dinner  side  dishes  hot  from  the 
oven;  of  eggs,  milk  and  flour,  flavored  with  fruit 
or  essences;  puffed;  see  puddings  for  prepara- 
tions. 

—  Petit    Souffle    Avricourt ;    cassolet    de    mousse    de 

volaille  with  tongue. 
Souffl6  a  I'Allemande — with  apple  sauce. 

—  a  la  Dauphine;  of  lemon  with  apricot  marmelade. 

—  a    la    Lyonnaise ;    of    lemon. 

—  a  la  Moelle;   of  beef  marrow. 

—  a   la   Nurembergeoise;    of  almonds  with   cream. 

—  a    la    Reine ;    with    macaronis. 

—  a  la  Palffy ;  vanille  and  rum  biscuits. 


Souffle       296 Soups 

—  a  la  Parmentier ;   of  potatoes. 

—  a  la  PitMviers ;    of  almonds. 

—  a  la  Bourgeoise;    of  rice. 

—  a  la  Russe ;  with  puree  of  raspberries  and  omelet. 

—  a   la    Saxonne ;    of   maccaroon   with   any   flavor. 

—  a   la    Skilizi;    of   vanille   biscuits  with   kirsh. 

—  a    la    Viennoise ;    of    apples,    almonds   and   lemon. 
Soups — Ft.,     Potages;     Ger.,     Suppen;     broth,     light 

kind  of  liquid  food;  consomme,  double  distilled 
broth;  soup,  a  happy  medium  of  both;  note 
difference  of  potage  claire  and  lie ; .  serve  soup 
always  on  second  large  plate,  so  as  not  to  bath 
fingers    in    liquid. 

—  Soups;   puree   soups   are  garnished,  with  dices  of 

fried   crust,    cream   soups  with  paste   quenelles. 
Bisk    soups    are   not   garnished, 

—  Beef  tea;   strong  beef  liquor. 

—  Bouillon;    broth;    take   note   if   clear   soup,    puree 

or    cream   soup   is   ordered,    there   being   a   dif- 
ference.      For    missing    soiips,     see    these. 
Consomme — double  broth;  study  the  soups  carefully, 

as  the  names  often  do  return  in  cookery,   for  the 

same  material. 

—  a  I'Ancienne;  of  mutton  and  beef. 

—  a  la  Moderne ;   of  beef,  veal  and  fowl  with  roots. 

—  Brunoise ;    with    vegetables. 

—  Brunoise    a   la    Colbert ;    of   vegetables   with    egg- 

custards. 

—  a  la  Alsacienne;  with  sour  crout  and  goose  liver. 

—  a  I'Andalousienne;  of  vegetables  and  tomato  pan- 

cakes. 

—  a  la  d'Artois;  with  egg-custards. 

—  a   la   d'Aulanier;   with   cabbage  balls. 

—  a  la  Barakine ;   tapioca  broth  with  strips  of  truf- 

fles  and  chicken. 

—  a    la    Beaufort;    pheasant   broth    with    goose    liver 

balls. 

—  a   la   Beauharnais;   peas,    barley   and   duck  meat. 

—  a    la    Beauvilliers ;    with    stuffed    cucumbers    and 

crusts. 

—  a    la    Beaulieux;    beans,    artichokes,    mushrooms. 

—  a   la    Benoit;    with   minced   and   fried   vegetables. 

—  a  la  Berchoux ;    game   broth  with  slices  of  quail. 

—  a  la  Bordelaise;  with  marroAV  and  Bordeaux  wine. 

—  a    la    Bourdaloue ;     chicken    broth    with    chicken 

meat. 


Soups 297 A  la  S6vtgn6 

—  a  la  Britannia;  with  vegetal)les  and  chicken. 

—  a  la   Brunoise;    with   vegetables   in   dices. 

—  a  la  Bolivar;  green  turtle,  quenelles  and  carrots. 

—  a  la    Camerani;    with    vegetables;    nuddles    and 

cheese. 

—  a   la   Cambise;    stuffed   eggs   and  fine  herbs. 

—  a    la    Canino ;    with    nuddles. 

—  a  la  Capri;   with  quail  fillets  and  cock's  combs. 

—  a  la   Careme;   with   vegetables  and  toast. 

—  a  la  Caroline;   of  almond,   milk,  rice  and  tongue. 

—  a  la  Castellane ;  game  broth. 

—  a  la   Celestine;    with   sliced  pancakes. 

—  a  la   Chancelliere ;   fowl  broth  with  peas  balls. 

—  a  la  Chasseur;   of  beef  and  partridge. 

—  des  Chatelaines;  partridge  broth  with  onion  balls, 

artichokes. 

—  a  la  Chesterfield;    of  tapioca  with  sherry,   turtle 

and    truffles. 

—  a   la   Chiffonade ;   with  vegetables. 

—  a  la  Choiseul;   chicken  broth  with  quenelles  and 

asparagus. 

—  a   la   Cristoph   Colomb;   with   tomato   balls. 

—  a   la   Clermont;    with   fried  rings   of  onions. 

—  a  la  Colbert ;   fowl   broth  with  poached  eggs  and 

vegetables. 

—  a   la   Crecy ;    chicken  broth  with   carrots. 

—  a  la  Cussy;  game,  chestnuts,  asparagus  and  truf- 

fles. 

—  a   la   Daumont ;   with   cabbage  and  oxpalate. 

—  a    la    DemidofP;    chicken    broth    with    tapioca. 

—  a    la    Dieppoise;    with    vegetables,    potatoes,    sip- 

pets. ^ 

—  a    la    Meteore;    with   quenelles. 

—  Diablotins;    cheese    crusts,    bechamel,    cayenne. 

—  a    la    Diplomate ;     of    chicken    with    truffles    and 

roots. 

—  a   la   Doria;    game   broth   with   quenelles,    or  juli- 

enne   with    stuffed    profiterolles. 

—  a   la  Douglas ;   with   veal  and  artichokes. 

—  a  la  Dubarry ;   chicken  broth  with  rice  cake. 

—  a  la  Duchesse;   with  strips  of  veal. 

—  Duck  a  la  Polonaise;   with   carrots,    celery,  leeks 

and  ham. 

—  des  Epicures;  with  truffles. 

- — a    la    d'Esclignac;    with    egg    custards. 

—  a   la   S^vigne;    pheasant   broth  with   quenelles. 


Soups 298 A  la  Monacco 

—  a    la    Fin    de    Siecle ;    with    roots,    purslane    and 

chervil, 

—  a  la  Flamande ;  with  sprouts. 

—  a    la    Fleury ;    with   rice    and   vegetables,    chicken 

and    quenelles. 

—  a   la   Florentine ;    with   puff -paste   tarts. 

—  a    la    Francaise ;     chicken    broth    with    quenelles. 

—  a  la  Franco  Suisse;   of  beef  and  fowl  with  quen- 

elles. 

—  aux   Gnochi;   with  semolin   custards. 

—  a  la  Grimod  de  la  Reiniere ;  with  fowl  and  veget. 

—  a  rimperatrice ;   with  a  poached  egg. 

—  a  ritalienne;    with  nuddles. 

—  aux  Jacobins ;   with   egg   custards. 

—  a  la  Jardiniere ;  vegetable  broth. 

—  a   la   Jerusalem;    with   Jerusalem   artichokes. 

—  a    la   Joinville ;    chicken   broth   with  mussels. 

—  a  la  Henry  IV;  dices  of  chicken,  minced  tomatoes 

and  rice. 
• — -a    la    Jenny    Lind;    of    calf's    feet    and   truffles. 

—  a   la   Julienne ;    with   vegetable   shreds. 

—  Julienne    a    la    Montpensier ;    vegetables    and   egg 

custards. 
— •  Julienne    a    la    Russe ;    shredded    vegetables    and 

sour   cream. 
— ■  a    la    Kursel ;    with    Spring    vegetables. 
— -  Lamballe ;    of  tomatoes  and  Tapioca. 
■ —  a    la    Landgrave ;    with    vegetable    cubes. 

—  aux  Lascagne  ;   with  nuddles. 

—  a   la   Laroiiciere;    lobster,   peas,    asparagus. 

—  a   la   Luculles ;    with   fowl   quenelles   and   truffles. 

—  a    la    Lemardelais ;    sorrel   with    clams. 

■ —  a    la    Magenta ;    with    celery    and    tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Maltaise ;    with  vegetables   and  fowl. 

—  a  la  Marechale ;    with  greens. 

—  a   la   Marie  Louise ;    with   forcemeat  balls. 

—  a   la   Marie   Stuart ;   with   tomatoes  and  pearls. 

—  a  la  Marigny ;  with  snipe  rolls. 

—  a  la  Medicis ;    with  poached  egg  and  quenelle. 
— •  Menestrone    Milanaise :    Avith    ham,    string    beans, 

cabbages,    peas,    rice    and   maccarooni. 

—  a  la  Mesinoise ;  with  chicken  and  tomato  balls. 

—  a  la   Metternich ;   game  broth  with  quenelles,   ar- 

tichokes  and   goose   livers. 

—  a   la  Moliere ;    with   custards. 

—  a  la  Monacco ;   with  sippets,   stuffed  and  fried. 


Soups 299 Aux  Tartarlns 

—  a  la  Montgelas;  with  capon,  mushrooms,  madeira 

and    truffles. 

—  a  la  Monte  Carlo;  with  roots. 

—  a  la  Montmorrency ;   with  quenelles  and  nuddles, 

lettuce. 

—  a   la   Napolitaine;    game  broth   with   nuddles. 

—  a  la   Nationale;   with  forcemeat  balls. 

—  a   la    New   York;    rice,    mashrooms,   game,    aspara- 

gus   tips. 

—  a    la    Nicoise;    with    rice,    chicken   and   vegetable. 

—  a    la    Nevers ;    Brussel's    sprouts,    carrots,    vermi- 

celli. 

—  aux  Nids  d'Hirondelles;   with  birds  nests. 

—  a   la  Nilson;    with  colored  forcemeat  balls. 

—  a   la   Nivernaise;    with   vegetable   balls. 

—  a    la    Noaille ;    of    spinach,    tongue    and    with    egg- 

custards. 

—  aux   Nodes;    with   custard   squares. 

—  a  la   Olga;   with  leeks,   cabbages  and  truffles. 

—  a  la  d' Orleans;   with  fowl  meat  balls. 

—  a    la    Palestine ;    with    Jerusalem    artichokes. 

—  parf aite ;    with    tapioca    and    egg-custard. 

—  aux  Pates   Faconnes ;    with  Italian  paste. 

—  a   la    Paysanne;    with   vegetables. 

—  a   la  Prince   de  Galle ;    with  forcemeat  balls. 

—  a   la    Printanniere ;    with    Spring    vegetables. 

—  a  la   Reine;    of   chicken. 

—  aux   Profiterolles;   with  nut   shaped  chicken   frit- 

ters. 

—  a    la    Rachel ;    with    chicken    and    sippets,    game, 

quenelles    and    asparagus. 

—  aux   Raviolles;   witli   stuffed  patties. 

—  a    la    Reine    Hortence ;     with    quenelles    and    veg. 

—  a   la   Regence :    with   fowl  meat   balls. 

—  a    la    Reine   Hortence ;    with   quenelles   and   veget. 
—•a  la  Riche;   mutton  broth  with  rice  and  roots. 

—  a    la   Rohan;    with   plovers     eggs   and   sippets. 

—  a   la  Royale;   with  eggs,    custards,    chicken  broth. 

—  a    la    Samaritaine ;    Italian    paste    and    vegetables. 

—  a   la  Richelieu;    carrots  and  turnips. 

—  a    la    Russe;    with    roots    and   leeks. 

—  a  la  Savarin;  with  onions  and  sweet  breads. 

—  a  la   Saxonne;  with  quenelles. 

—  a    la    Sevign^;    with    forcemeat    balls. 

—  a    la    Solferino ;    with    vegetables    and   bread. 

—  a  la  Talma ;   with  milk,   eggs  and  rice. 

—  aux    Tartarins ;    with   stuffed  nuddles. 


Soups 300 De  Canard 

—  en    Tasses ;    in    cups. 

—  aux  TobinamboTirg ;   with  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

—  de  Tortue ;  turtle  broth. 

—  aux    Trois    Cremes;    with    egg- custards. 

—  aux    Trois    Racines;    with    roots. 

—  a   la   Westmoreland;    turtle    stock,    quenelles    and 

sweet   breads, 

—  a  la   Venaison;    venison  broth. 

—  Velours;    with    carrots    and    tapioca. 

—  a  la  Vermicelles ;   with  thin  nuddles. 

—  a  la  Vivienne ;   celery,   onions,  rice  and  tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Viennoise;   with   chicken,   chives  and  grains. 

—  a  la  Vendeenne ;   with  string  beans. 

—  Croute   au   pot;    broth  with   toasted   sippets. 
Garbure,     a     la     Bearnalse — consomme     with     vege- 
tables, ham,  peas  and  goose. 

—  Garbure ;  is  always  served  with  vegetables,  should 

be  given  apart. 

—  a    la    Chevaliere ;     cream    soaked,    fried    rolls    in 

crust. 

—  a  la  Clermont ;  with  onion  rings  in  crust. 

—  a  la  Fremeuse ;   with  fried  turnips. 

—  au    Hameau    de     Chantilly ;     with    vegetables    in 

crust. 

—  a  ritalienne;   sausages,  roots,  bread. 

—  a    la    Macedoine;    with   vegetable    cubes    in    crust. 

—  a  la  Polignac;   with  chestnuts  in  crust. 

—  a   la   Villeroy;    roots   in   crust. 

—  Julienne;    with  vari-colored   shreds  of   vegetables. 

—  Oille  a  la  Francaise ;  with  vegetables  and  sherry. 

—  a     la     Moderne ;     with     artichokes,     truiiies     and 

onions. 

—  a   la   Navaraise;   with  bread  and  ve""etables. 

—  en  Potage  a  I'Ancienne;  with  pigeon  and  chicken 

meat. 
Claire    potage — take   note   if    soup    ordered    is    clear, 

puree    or    cream. 
Claire   a  I'Armenienne — with   sheep's  tails   and  veg. 

—  a   la   Bagration;    fish   soup   with   quenelles,    roots 
and  crayfish. 

—  Barszs   a  la  Polonaise;   red  beet   soup  with   sour 

cream. 

—  a  la  Bourgeoise;   with  vegetables. 

—  a  la  Britania;    chicken  soup  with  vegetables. 

—  a   la  Brunoise;   with  vegetables  in  dices. 

—  de  Cailles;    of  quails. 

—  de  Canard ;   of  duck. 


Soups 301 Kalia  a  la  Russe 

—  de  Canettes;  od  duckling. 

—  a  la   Capri;   with   quails   and   combs. 

—  a   la   Charles    Quint;    with   madeire,    grains,    rice, 

mushrooms,   pheasant. 

—  a  la  Chasseur;  game  soup  with  game. 

—  a   la    Cultivateur;    with   vegetables    and   puree    of 

peas. 
Potage  Clair  a  la  Chevreuse — chicken  soup  with  on- 
ions and  peas;   take  note  if  soup  is  clear,  puree, 
or    cream    soup. 

—  a    la    Choiseul;    with    asparagus    tips    and    egg- 

custards. 

—  a  la  Chamberry;  with  baked  quenelles  and  baked 

cabbages. 

—  a  la  Lilloise;   with  chopped  onions. 

—  a  la  Rentierej    with  sausages  and  sippets. 

—  a   la   Rouennaise;    with   sippets   of  bread. 

—  a  la  St.  Dennis;  with  sherry  and  stuffed  cabbage. 

—  de     Choux     en     surprise ;     with     cabbage     stuffed 

with  chestnuts. 

—  a   la   Clermont;    with   onion  rings. 

• — a   la   Colbert;    chicken   soup  with  poached  egg. 

—  de    Colimacons;    clear    snail    soup. 

— -a  la  Comtesse;   veal  soup  with   sweet  breads. 

—  Coq-a-leeky;     chicken     soup     with     leeks,     barley 

and   meat. 

—  Croute    au    pot;     beef    broth    with    cabbage    and 

meat;    serve  with  cheese   crust,   cheese. 

—  a   la   Diplomate;    oxpalate   soup   to   imitate   turtle. 

—  a    la   Douglas;    calf's   head   soup. 

—  a    I'Ecossaise;    Scotch    mutton    broth. 

—  a  la  Fausse  tortue;   ijiock  turtle   soup  with  calf's 

head. 

—  a  la  Fermiere ;  with  vegetables,  baked  and  boiled. 

—  a  la  Flamande;    with   sprouts   and  sippets. 

—  a   la   Frankfort;    with   slices    of   sausages. 

—  a   la  Francillon;    chicken  forcemeat  with   egg. 

—  de    Gelinotte;    of   hazel-hen. 

—  a    la    Gouffe;    tapioca    soup   with    tongue,    trufiles, 

chicken. 

—  de  Grenouilles;  veal  soup  with  frogs  legs,,  boiled. 

—  aux    Gumbo;    mit    Eibisch ;    okra. 

—  a   la  Jambe  de   Bois;   of  bones  and  chicken.        / 

—  a    la    Jenny    Lind;    of    mushrooms    and    railbirds. 

—  a    la    Julienne;    with    vegetable    shredds. 

—  Kalia    a    la    Russe ;    Russian    chicken    soup    with 

cream. 


Soups  302 A  la  Foisonniere 

—  a   la   Kursel ;    clear   vegetable    soup  -with   aspara- 

gus. 

—  de    Laperaux ;    rabbit    soup. 

—  aux   Lasagnes;    with   ribbon  nuddles. 

—  a  la  Leopold;   semolina  soup  with  sorrel. 

•—a    la     Magenta;     with    tomato-juice,     celery    and 
chives. 

—  a  la  Marly;   with  pods  and  chives. 

—  a    la    Marquise ;    chicken    soup    with    stuffed    let- 

tuces. 

—  a    la    Medicis ;    with   poached    egg   and   quenelles. 

—  Minestera;  vegetable  soup  with  rice. 

—  a    la    Montglas;    with   mashed    truffles    and    goose 

liver  balls. 

—  aux    Monies;    mussel    soup. 

—  de    Mouton    a    la     Cowley;     with    mutton    meat, 

barley  and  roots. 

—  Mullagatawny ;    veal    soup    with    rice    and   chicken 

meat,    curried. 

—  a   la   Napier;   with   peas   and  pork.  , 

—  a    la    Napolitaine ;    game    soup    with    force    meat 

balls. 

—  de  Navets  a  la  Chartre ;  with  turnips. 

—  a    la    Nicoise;    with   rice,    meat    and   vegetables. 

—  a   la   Normande ;    cabbage    and    leeks. 

—  a  rOrge   d'Ulm;   with   German  barley. 

—  aux  Pains ;   with  rolls. 

—  aux  Pain  de  MecQue ;   with  oatmeal  rolls. 

—  aux     Pains     de     Broquet;     with     brocket     rolls; 

Hirsch. 

—  aux   Pains   de   Chataines ; ,  with    chestnut   rolls. 

—  aux    Pains   de   Choux;    with   cabbage  rolls. 

—  aux   Pains   a   la   Fiancee ;    with   small   nut   cakes. 

—  aux   Pains   de   Gelinotte;   with   rolls   of  woodhen, 

or   hazelhen. 

—  a  la   Paysanne;   with  rice   and  vegetables. 

—  Paysanne    d'Artois;    vegetables    and   white    beans. 

—  aux  Perles  du  Nizam;    chicken  soup  with  grains. 

barley. 

—  a    la    Picarde;    with    fried   leeks    and   sippets   of 

bread. 

—  a  la  Pierre  le   Grand;   vegetable  soup  w.  truffles. 

—  a  la  Plessy;    chicken  soup  w.  onions  and  sippets. 

—  a    la    Pluche ;    with    shredds    of    greens    and    ver- 

micelly. 
> — a  la  Poisonniere;  beef  soup  with  pieces  of  salmon 
and   soles,    oysters  and  mussels. 


Soups 303 Potages  116 

— •  Print.inniore;     Spring:    vegetable    soup. 

—  aux  Prof iterolles ;  with  nut  shaped  chicken  frit- 

ters; gefUIlten  Milchbrodch(m. 

—  aux   Quenelles;    with  forcemeat   balls. 

—  Risot    au    Parmesan;    rice    dumplings    with    par- 

mesan    cheese,    in   broth. 

—  a  la   Rohan ;   with  plovers  eggs  and  sippets. 

—  a  la  Royale;   chicken  soup  with  egg-custard. 

—  a   la   Russe ;    with  roots   and   leeks. 

■ — •  a   la    St.   Cloud;   veal  soup  with  pods,   herbs   and 
crusts. 

—  a  la  St.  George ;  fowl  soup  with  barley  meat  and 

quenelles. 

—  a  la  Saint  Jeudi ;  with  spinach  and  sorrel,  chives. 

—  de    Sante;    of   sorrel. 

—  a    la     Savoyarde ;     beet    soup    with    sippets    and 

cheese. 

—  a  la   Spartiate ;   with  vinegar,   blood  and  meat. 

—  Stschy  de    Soldats ;    beef  soup  with   cabbage  and 

vegetables. 

—  de   Tortue ;    real   turtle   soup  with   sherry. 

—  a  la  Toscane;  with  nuddles,  tomatoes,  and  mush- 

rooms. 

—  a  la  Vert  Pres;  of  tapioca,  with  beans,  peas  and 

asparagus. 

—  a    la    Victor    Emamiel ;    macaroni    soup    with    to- 

matoes and  cheese. 

—  a   la   Viennoise ;   with   chicken   meat,   barely  and 

chives. 

—  a   la  Villageoise;    clear  macaroni   soup  with  fried 

leeks. 

—  a  la  Winchester;  lamb  soup  with  meat  and  leeks. 
Potage  Clair  a  la  Windsor — with  thin  nuddles  and 

quenelles. 

—  Puchero ;   of  mutton  and  beef  with  bacon,   vege- 

tables and  roots. 

—  Fidelini    a    la    Royale ;    with    thin    nuddles,    egg- 

custard   and   cheese. 

—  Julienne   a   la   Montpensier;    vegetable   soup   with 

egg-custards. 

—  Julienne  a  la  Russe ;   vegetable   soup  with  mush- 

rooms,   roots,    ham    and    tongue. 

—  d'Oignons    gratine;     with    lots    of    onions    and 

cheese,  baked. 
Potages  lie — thickened  soups;  legierte  Suppen;   take 
note  if  soup  is  lie,  puree  or  cream. 


Soups 304 A  la  Kitchener 

—  Barszs    a    la    Polonaise;    polish    beet    soup    "with 

sour  cream;   served  separate. 

—  Panade ;    white   "bread    soup. 

—  Potage    d'Ahbatis;    giblet    soup. 

—  a   I'Africaine;    curried  rice   soup   with  artichokes 

and  egg-plant. 

—  a    r Albert    Victor;    veal    soup    with    fried   force- 

meat  balls. 

—  Lie  a  I'Allemande;  vegetable  soup. 

—  Lie   a   la   Bagration;    calf's   foot    soup. 

—  a   la  Baviere;    semolina   soup  with  dumplings. 

—  Lie  blanc;   curried  onion  soup. 

- —  Busecchia ;    tripe    soup    with    vegetables. 

—  a    la    Cialdini ;    with   nuddles    and   vegetables. 

—  a   la   Clementine ;    chicken   soup   with  meat   balls. 
• —  a   la   Condorcet ;    game   soup   with  pheasant   rolls. 

—  a   la   Cussy ;    game   soup  with   quenelles. 

—  a    la    Delloire;    with    poached    eggs    and    sippets, 

lettuce    soup. 

—  a  la  Dubourg ;   rice  soup  with  custards. 

—  a  la  Due  de  Connaught ;  lentil  soup  with  chicken 

meat. 

—  a  la  Dumas;    calf's  foot   soup  with  lemon  slices. 

—  a   la   Eberstein;    white   vegetable   soup. 

—  a    la    Mont    de    Croix ;    with    cray    fish    tails    and 

chicken  meat   balls. 

—  f!    la    St.   German;    pea   soup. 

—  Elisa ;   with  sorrel,   chives  and  sippets. 

—  Lie    a    la    Florence;    macaroni    soup. 

—  a   la   Garibaldi ;    chicken   soup   with    egg-custards. 
• — ■  a    la    Grisonne ;    soup   with   baiter   fritters. 

—  aux   Grives  farcie ;   with  field  fares. 

—  a  la   Gutenberg ;   game  soup  with  sour  crout  and 

partridges. 

—  Howtowdie;     Scotch    chicken    soup    with    onions, 

spinach  and  poached   eggs. 

—  Lie   a   I'lmperatrice   des   Indes;    game   soui)  with 

force    meat    balls. 

—  Irma ;    chicken    soup    with    quenelles    with    curry 

and  vegetables. 

—  Lie  a  la   Jaquelin ;   yellow  beef  soup  with  veget. 

—  au  Jarrets  de  Veau ;   veal  soup  of  knuckles  with 

rice,    vegetables. 

—  a   la   Jenny  Lind,   Lie;    sago    soup  with   yolks. 

—  a    la    Kettner ;    chicken   soup   with   quenelles   and 

cream,   rice  and  meat. 

—  a   la  Kitchener ;    soup  with  chicken  slices. 


Soups 305 A  la  O'Connor 

—  a  la  Lady  Morgan ;  with  roots,  vegetables,  mush- 

rooms   and    combs. 
Potage   lie   de   levraut — hare   soup. 

—  a   la  Lithuanienne;   potato   soup. 

—  a    la    Livonienne;    chicken    soup    with   meat. 

—  a  la  Louis  Treize;  beef  soup  with  bread  crumbs 

and   cream. 

—  a     la     Lucullus;     chicken     soup     with     quenelles, 

combs   and    truffles. 

—  a    la    Magenta;    chicken    soup    with    arrow    root, 

mushrooms,    trutties,    meat    balls. 
— -a  la   Maintenou;   rice   soup. 

—  Halaszle ;   fish  soup  with  sour  cream. 

—  a    la    Marquise;    lie;    chicken    soup    with    lettuce 

and   peas. 
' —  a   la   Mecenes ;    quail   soup  with   sliced  quail   and 
livers. 

—  a  la  Micado;   of  beef,   veal  and  fowl  with  curry, 

rice    and   meat,    onions. 

—  Mille-fanti;    bread    soup    with    cheese    and    yolks. 

—  Minestera ;    vegetable    soup. 

—  a  la  Monaco  lie ;   yellow  soup  with  little  cakes. 

—  a    la    Mongole ;    peas,    tomatoes    and   julienne    con- 

somme. 

—  a   la   Montebello ;    vegetable   soup   with  roots   and 

wine. 
• —  a  la  Monte  Christo ;   lamb  soup. 

—  a    la    Montesquieu;    white    soup    with    cucumbers, 

mushrooms,   bread  and   cheese. 

—  a  la  Montglas;   with  chicken  meat  and  quenelles, 

truffles. 

—  a    la    Montmorrency ;    with    nudles,    lettuce    and 

chicken    meat. 

—  a   la   Montorgueil ;    chicken   soup   with  vegetables, 

cream  and  egg-yolks. 

—  a  la  Morgan ;  chicken  soup  with  vegetables,  roots 

and  combs. 

—  aux  Mou   de  Veau;    of   calf's  lights. 

—  Lie  a  la  Mullagatawny ;  Indian  curried  rice  soup. 

—  Mulagatawny   a   la   Delmonico;    the   same   of  fowl 

with  oysters  and  egg-plant. 

—  Lie  a  la   Nelson ;    ox-cheeks   soup. 

—  a   la  Nerac;   partridge   soup  with  goose  liver. 

—  a  la  Nesselrode ;   veal  soup  with  barley  and  rice. 

—  O'Connor;    chicken    soup   with   meat,    arrow   root 

and    leeks. 


Soups 306 A  la  Venard 

—  Okra   a  la   Creole ;    116  with  oil,   gumbo,   red  pep- 

pers and  tomatoes. 

—  a     la     Parmentier;     with     combs,     kidneys     and 

quenelles ;    potato   soup. 

—  a    la    Patti ;    chicken    soup    with    rice,    pods    and 

truffles. 

—  Lie   a   la   Plessy;    chicken   soup   with   onions   and 

sippets. 
-^Li6   a   la   Pluche;   potato    soup   with   parsley   and 
chervil. 

—  a  la  Pojarsky;    game   soup  with  partridge  slices, 

fried  in  butter. 

—  a  la  Pommeranienne ;  duck  soup  with  vegetables^ 

madeire,   wine   and  potatoes. 

—  a  la  Pontoise ;   chicken  soup ;  with  sweet  breads, 

ham  and  wine. 

—  Potroka ;  Russian  goose  giblet  soup. 

—  a    la    Prince    de    Galle ;     lie,    mock    trutle    with 

forcemeat   balls. 

—  Lie    a    la    Princesse;    chicken    soup    with    stuffed 

lettuce. 

—  Lie  Printanniere  a  la  Dubarry ;   spring  vegetable 

soup    with   rice    and    almond   milk. 

—  Lie    a    la    Rachel;    chicken    soup    with    peas    and 

fowl  mousse. 

—  Lie   a   la   Recamier;    sago   soup   with   cream   and 

yolks. 

—  Lie   a  la   Regence ;   beef  soup  with  egg-custards, 

lobsters,   butter  and  quenelles. 
Potage    li§    a    la    Renaisance — chicken    soup    with 
mushrooms,    peas   and   stuffed  nuddles. 

—  Lie   a  la   Rohan;    game   soup. 

—  Lie  a  la  Romaine ;    of  roman  lettuce. 

—  Lie    a   la   Rumford;    of   bones,    blood,    etc. 

—  Lie  de   Sarcelle ;   of  teal  ducks. 

—  de   Semoule ;    semolina   soup. 

—  Li6   a   la    Sevigne;    chicken   soup   with   vegetables 

and   fowl   mousse. 

—  Lie    a    la    Solferino ;     chicken    soup    with    roots, 

potatoes  and  vegetables. 
■ — •  Tarhonya ;    Hungarian   nuddle   soup. 

—  Lie   a  la  Turenne ;   potatoes   soup  with  pork  and 

parsley. 

—  a  la  Valois;  game  soup  with  mushroms  and  peas. 

—  Li6    a    la    Velours;    carrot    soup    with    rice    and 

tapioca. 

—  Lie  a  la  Vfinard;   with  farced  eggs  and  oysters. 


Soups 307 A  la  Boh6mlenne 

—  Lie    a    la    Victoria:     cliicken    soup,    roots,    toma- 

toes   and    vegetables. 

—  Lie  a  la  Westmoreland ;    beef  soup  with  madeire, 

quenelles,     truffles    and    cucumbers. 

—  Lie    a    la    Windsor;    veal    soup    with    barley    and 

quenelles. 

—  a  la  Woronzow;   goose  giblet  soup. 

—  Lie   aux  Xeres;    tapioca   soup  with   sherry. 

—  Potroka;    Russian    goose    giblet    soup. 

—  Jambalaya  ;    rice   soup. 

—  d'Oignons     a     la     Stanislas;     baked    onions    soup 

with    cheese. 

—  aux  Polpetti ;   with   croquettes  of  meat. 

—  Ravioli   a   la   Sarde;    with  stuffed  nuddle  paste. 

—  Tagliatelli ;    Italian   nuddle    soup. 

—  Bisque ;    a    strained    creamy    soup    passed   through 

a   tammy,   mostly  of  fish  or  game. 
Potages  a  la   Creme  et   a  la  Puree — soups,   strained 
of  cream  and  puree. 

—  Arcadienne  ;    oats,    celery. 

—  a  la  Soubise ;   chicken  soup  with  onion  and  force- 

meat   balls. 

—  une    Chiffonade ;     green    peas    soup    with    lettuce. 

—  une  Crecy ;    a  carrot  soup. 

■ — a  la  d'Artagnan;   of  peas,   tomato  and  consomm6. 

—  Mongole;    of    pea    soup,    tomato    puree    soup    and 

julienne  consomme. 

—  a    la    d'Artois;    green    pea    soup. 

—  a   I'Aurore;    of   carrots,    potatoes,    onions. 

—  Puree    a     la    Bagration;     puree    of    chicken    and 

veal    with    rice    and    macaroni. 

—  a   la   Beaufort;    game    soup   with   sausages. 

—  a  la  Baviere;    of  lentils  with   sausages. 

—  Bizet;    chicken   soup  with   chicken  puree. 

—  de    Ble   Vert;    green    corn    soup   of   green   mais. 

—  a   la    Bonne-Femme ;    sorrel   with   forcemeat   balls. 

—  Boronia ;    Spanish   soup   of  vegetables   with  garlic 

and    oil,    saffron. 

—  a   la   Bourdaloue ;    chicken   soup   with   vegetables, 

onions    and    cheese. 

—  de  Bourache;   borage   cream   soup. 

—  a    la    Bresse;    fowl    soup    with    asparagus    puree, 

vegetables    and    yolks. 

—  Creme    Bruxelloise;    of   Brussels    sprouts. 

—  Potage    a    la    Brittania ;    game    soup   with   lobster. 

—  Brun   a   la   Bohemienne ;    brown   soup  with  dump- 

lings. J 


Soups 308 A  la  Fin  de  Siecle 

• — Champenoise;    of    cauliflowers    and    artichokes. 

—  a   la   Chantilly;   lentils   soup  with   cream. 

—  a    la    Chartreuse;    tapioca    soup    with    vegetables 

and  stuffed  nuddles. 

—  a    la    Chasseur ;     of    ham,    hare,    pork,    madeire, 

sausages  and  mushrooms. 

—  a   la    Chatelaine ;    brown    soup    with    onions,    egg, 

cream,    asparagus    and    peas. 

—  a  la  Chevreuse ;  beef  and  fish  broth  with  cucum- 

bers,   onions,    cream   and   quenelles. 

—  de    Choux    Verts    a    la    Holstein;     cabbage    soup 

with   oatmeal   and   pork. 

—  a    la    Clementine ;     chicken    soup    with    tricolored 

quenelles. 
— •  a  la  Conde;   of  white  beans. 

—  a   la   Creme  Danoise ;   brown  duck   soup  with   ar- 

tichokes,   cream   and    quenelles. 

—  Creme    de    Navets    a    la    Faubonne ;    chicken    soup 

with   vegetable    shredds   and   puree   of   turnips. 

—  Creme   a   la    Nousillat ;    cream   soup   of   chestnuts. 
— -a   la    Creme   d'Orge;    barley   cream   soup. 

—  a  la  Creme  d&  Gruau;  oatmeal,   cream,   soup. 

—  Creme   a   la  Palestine ;    cream  of  Jerusalem    arti- 

chokes. 

—  a  la   Creme   de  Panais ;   parsnip,   cream    soup. 

—  a  la   Creme  de  Riz ;   rice,    cream    soup. 

—  Creme    a    la    Rohan;    cauliflower,    cream,    soup. 

—  Creme    a    la    Soubise ;    chicken    soup    with    white 

cream  of  onions. 

—  du   Csar ;    game    soup   with   goose   liver,    madeire, 

truffles. 

—  a     la     Destillac ;     chicken     soup    with     egg-yolks, 

cream,   mushrooms,   cheese. 

—  a   la  Dolgorukij ;    chicken  with  meat,   ham,   yolks 

and   onions. 

—  a   la   Debelloy ;    rice,   cream,    soup  with  quenelles. 

—  a   la   Duchesse ;   puree   soup   of  fowl  with  minced 

chicken   filets. 

—  a    la   Durham ;    chicken    soup   with    quenelles,    to- 

matoes,  vegetables  and  cheese. 

—  a   la    Faubonne ;    puree    soup   of   peas   with    small 
onions,    sorrel    and    chervil,    white    beans. 

—  a   la   Fermiere ;   potato   soup  with  turnips. 

—  a    la    Financiere;    brown    game    soup    with    goose 

liver    and   snipe. 

—  a  la  Fin  de   Siecle;   strained  vegetable  s6up. 


Soups 309 A  la  Mecene 

—  du    Garde    Champetre ;    white    soup    with    onion, 

yolks  and  cheese  rolls. 

—  a    la    Genin ;     chicken    soup    with    onions,    mush- 

rooms,    vegetable     puree,     tomatoes. 

—  a   la    Gentilhomme ;    game    soup   with   lentils. 

—  a    la    Germiny ;    puree    of    pods    with    cream    and 

yolks,   asparagus  puree. 
— •  a   la    Gervais ;    soup   of  peas  with   spinach. 

—  du    Grand    Due ;    chicken    soup    with    ham,    vege- 

table and  rice. 

—  de    Grieves;    of    field-fares. 

—  a    la    Hollandaise ;     cream    soup    with    vegetable 

balls. 

—  a  la  Holstein;   oatmeal  soup  with  sausage,   chest- 

nuts   and    cabbage. 

—  a   la   Humboldt ;    veal   soup  with   mushrooms,    on- 

ions and  quenelles. 

—  a  rimperiale;    chicken  soup  with  cream,   trudes, 

asparagus,    yolks. 

—  a   la  Jenny  Lind ;    sago   cream  soup,  yellow  with 

yolks. 

—  a    la    Judic;    of    lettuce. 

—  Krapiwa,     (Ortie)     a    la    Russe ;    of    nettles    with 

spinach    and    sorrel,    sour    cream    and    sausage, 
stuffed,    fried    eggs. 

—  Krupnick   a  la   Polonaise;    chicken  barley,    cream 

soup   with   vegetables. 

—  a    la    Leopold;    barley,    potatoes,    chervil. 

—  a   la   Livonienne ;    puree   soup    of   vegetables   with 

rice. 

—  Lamb   soup ;    Grecian   style,   rice   and  tomatoes. 

—  a    la    Mac    Donald;     chicken    soup    with    brains, 

cucumbers,    onions,    curry,    eggs. 

—  a    la    Magellan;    chicken    soup    of    partridge    with 

artichokes. 

—  a  la   Malmesbury;   game   soup,  madeire,   quenelles 

and  meat. 

—  a   la   Mancelle ;    game   soup   with   chestnut   puree, 

partridge  and  quenelles 

—  a    la    Marie    Antoinette ;    chicken    soup    with    eggs 

and    asparagus    pxiree. 

—  a    la    Marie    Louise ;    barley,    cream     soup,    with 

cream  and  quenelles. 

—  a    la    Massena ;     game     soup    with    madeire    and 

chestnuts. 

—  a    la    Mecene;    quail    soup    with    puree    of    quails 

and   liver. 


Soups 310 A  la  Parmentiere 

—  a  la   Medicis ;    game   soup   with  nuddles,   truffles, 

tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Medine ;   game  soup  with  partridge,   nuddles 

and    cream. 

—  a  la  Meg  Merilles;  game   soup  with  roots,  beans, 

salad,    celery   and  meat. 

—  a    la    Meissonier ;    mutton    soup    with   onions    and 

sippets. 

—  "a  la   Merluche;    haddock   soup. 

—  a  la  Messinoise ;   white  puree  soup  with  chicken, 

almonds  and  tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Meyerbeer;    chicken  puree   soup  with  beans 

and    peas,     sorrel    and    quenelles. 

—  a    la   Montglas ;    chicken   puree    soup   with   mush- 

rooms and  truffles. 

—  a    la    Moscovite ;     ham    soup    with    sour    cream, 

madeire  and  onions. 

—  de   Mouton  a  la   Mexicaine ;   with  puree  of  black 

beans,    chillies   and   onions. 

—  de  Mouton  a   la  Rouennaise ;   of  barley,   cream. 

—  Puree     a     la     Nesselrode ;     of     barley     and    rice, 

chicken. 

—  Puree  a  la  d' Orleans;   of  fowl  with  tapioca. 

'— a   la   d'Orsay;    chicken   soup   with   asparagus   and 
eggs. 

—  d'Oseille;   puree  of  sorrel. 

—  Parmentiere;    of   potatoes. 

—  a   la   Pierre   le    Grand ;    chicken   soup  with   onions 

and  vegetables. 

—  a    la    Napier ;    puree    soup    of    green    peas    with 

mint  and  salt  pork. 
-^  a  la  St.   Germain;   of  green  peas. 
•^  a    la    President    Grant ;    chicken    soiip    with    ham, 

rice  and  tomatoes. 
-^  a  la  Princese ;   fowl,    cream    soup   with  forcemeat 

balls. 

—  a   la   Princesse  Royal;    cream,    soup   of   chicken. 

with   forcemeat   balls,    eggs,    truffles. 

—  a  la  Prusienne;  vegetable,  cream    soup. 

-^  a    la    Dubarry ;    puree    of    cauliflower    with    yolks 

and    chicken. 
-^  a    la    Puree    Conde;    puree    soup    of   red   beans. 

—  Puree   a  la   Crecy;   of  carrots  with  vegetables. 

—  Puree   a    la    Gentleman;    fowl   puree    soup. 

—  a  la  Puree  de  Koontei ;   of  a  root  like  arrow-root. 

—  Puree   a   la   Parmentiere ;    potato    soup   with  leeks 

and  onions. 


Soups 311 Clamchowdey 

—  Puree  a  la   St.  Cloud;   of  green  peas   and  stewed 

lettuce. 

—  Pur^e    a    la    St.    Marceau;    of    green    peas,    leeks 

and  lettuce. 

—  Puree  a  la   St.  Mande ;  with  cucumbers,  rice  and 

chervil. 

—  a  la  Rabelais;   hare   soup. 

—  a    la    Reine    Margot ;    fowl    puree    soup    with    out 

potatoes. 

—  Risi-pisi;    pur^e   of   green   peas   with   rice. 

—  des  Rois ;   game  soup  with  goose  liver. 

—  Rossol  a  la  Polonaise;   of  beef  and  chicken  with 

bacon   and   oatmeal. 

—  Rossolnik  a  la  Russe ;   chicken  broth  with  onions 

and    cucumber,    broth,     roots. 

—  a  la  St,  Hubert;   brown  game  soup  with  madeire 

and   mushrooms. 

—  a  la   Sarah  Bernhard;   puree  of  fowl. 

—  a  la  Shuwalo£f;   chicken  soup  with  crayfish. 

—  a    la     cJir    Stafford    Northcote;     game    soup    with 

eggs,    cream,   saffron,   almonds. 

—  a   la   Sontag;    chicken   soup  with   leeks,   rice   and 

ham. 

—  a  la   Stamboul ;   puree   of  rice  and   tomatoes 

—  a  la  Stanley;   game  soup  with  rice  and  quenelles, 

—  a    la    Stuart;     game    soup    with    oxpalate,    wine, 

pheasant   and   herbs,    ham,    calf's   feet. 

—  a    la    Sultane ;     chicken    soup    with    rice,     arr*w 

root,   nutmeg. 

—  de    Terapene;    of    terrapin. 

—  a  la  Therese ;    tapioca   soup,   peas,    leeks,   chicken 

meat. 

—  a  la   Trouvilloise;    crab   soup. 

—  a  la  Tyrolienne ;   barley,   cream    soup,  onions  and 

carrots. 
— -a    la    Vefour;    tapioca    soup    with    quenelles. 

—  Velontine ;    tapioca    with    cream. 

—  a  la  Victoria ;  with  yolks,  vegetables.  &  tomatoes. 

—  a  la  Wilton;  puree  of  carrots. 

—  a     la     Windsor ;     fowl     soup    with    nuddles     and 

quenelles. 

—  a   la  Wirzig;   fowl  puree  with  vermicelli. 

—  a   la  Xavier;    strained   broad   bean    soup. 

—  Soups  de  Galle  ou  de  Saxe ;  game  soups. 
Lent  soups. 

—  Clamchowder;   a  thick  soup  of  clams  or  oysters, 

biscuits,  tomatoes,  peppers. 


Soups     312 A  la  Westphalienne 

—  Bouillabaise ;   of  herbs,   peppers,  mussels,  saffron, 

garlic  and  fishes,  fish-broth. 

—  Coulis   Maigre ;    lent,    fish     soup. 

—  Oucha ;    Russian   fish     soup. 

—  a   la   Bateliere ;    fish     soup   with   oysters. 

—  a    la    Brabanconne ;    fish    soup. 

—  a  la   Cambridge;    lobster  soup. 

—  a     la     Cambyse ;     fish     soup     with    nuddles     and 

oysters. 

—  a    la    Gladstone ;    fish-broth    with    herbs,    plovers 

eggs,    saffron. 
Soljanka — Russian  fish  soup  with  onions,   oil. 
— -  aux  Vongoli ;   Italian  mussel  soup. 

—  Soupe   a   la   Biere ;    beer   soup  with   sugar,   cinna- 

mon, eggs  and  lemon. 

—  Gramatka ;   Polish  soup  of  wine  and  beer,   sugar, 

cinnamon    and    crumbs. 

—  a    la    Kronprinz ;    wine    soup    with    cherries    and 

biscuits. 

—  O'Brandy;   Irish  brandy  soup. 

—  Botwinja;    cold   herb    soup    with    iced   fish,    with 

sorrel,    horseraddish    and    Kwas. 
Cold   soups — Kolodnik    a    la    Polonaise;    Polish   cold 
herb    soup,   sour   cream,   beets,   Kwas. 

—  Obroshka ;     fish     soup,     cold     with     eggs,     leeks, 

cucumbers,    sorrel,    Kwas,    sour    cream. 

—  Consomme    Froid    a    la    Gelee;    cold    jellied    con- 

somme;   served  in   cups. 

—  Froid  a  la  Mile.  Mars ;   sweet,   cold  almond  soup. 
National    soups — a    I'Africaine;    egg-plant   with   cur- 
ry,  artichokes. 

—  de   Fourmis   Africaine ;    of  ants. 

Helbe — soup    of    fenugreek;    Bockshornklee. 

—  Kouskous ;     Abessinian    beef      broth    with    vege- 

tables and  nuddles. 

—  Lebaba ;    Egyptian   soup   of   bread,    honey,    butter 

and    raisin    water. 

—  Sorgho ;   soup  of  Indian  millet. 

—  Brouet   d'Andouilles;    German   Metzelsuppe;    pud- 

ding broth. 

—  a   I'Alsatienne;   Alsatian   sour   crout   soup. 

—  a  la  Bavaroise;   lentil  soup  with  sausages. 

—  a  la   Berlinoise;   white  beer  soup. 

—  a    la    Prusienne ;    vegetable    soup. 

—  a    la    Westphalienne ;    Westphalian    pumpernickel 

soup. 


Soups 313 Spaghetti 

—  Gondingo;    American   goose   giblet   soup   with   on- 

ions,   rice   and  liver. 

—  de    Mais    a    I'Americaine;    green    corn    soup    with 

chicken,   onion,   milk  or  cream. 

—  Sagamite    a    la    Red-skin;     thick    mush    of    mais 

with    water    and    flour. 

—  Tassamane;  sweet  corn,  roast  in  ashes  with  sugar 

and    wiiter;    with    honey   as    cake. 

—  Klachel  a  la  Styrienne;  Austrian  soup  of  hashed 

pig's  feet. 

—  Verkahat  a  la  Styrienne;   soup  of  minced  meats; 

Steyermark. 

—  Onkrop   ;i  la   Tcheque ;    Czech  onion   soup. 

—  Apritottas   Leves ;    Austrian   ragout    soup. 

—  Einbrenn    Suppe ;    soup    with   butter   and   flour, 
Veloes   leves — calf's   brains   soup. 

—  Welling;    Danish   sago   soup. 

—  Ajo-Blanco;    Andalusian   garlic   soup. 

— -Batatulla;    Spanish    beef   tea   with   roots. 

—  Caldo     con     Chorizos;     broth    with     Spanish     red 

sausages, 

—  011a  Pudrida;    spanischer   Stinktopf;    garlic  soup; 

see    soups,    or    letter. 

—  Papilla   de  Arroz ;    rice,    cream   soup. 

—  Balnamoon  Skink ;  Irish  chicken  broth  with  vege- 

tables,   roots,    cream    and    eggs. 

—  Aghar-aghar;    Japanese    algae    soup. 
Behatta— Beduin    rice    soup. 

Chop-soly — Chinese      national;       of      pork,       bacon^ 
chicken,    mushrooms,    bambou,    onion,    beans. 

—  Daikan ;   Japanese  raddish  soup. 

—  Krishara  ;    Indian   rice   soup. 

—  Chalet;    bean    soup   with   dumpling,    Jewish.      For 

other  soups  see  letters;  always  take  care  if 
soup  is  puree,  maigre,  claTr,  etc.,  the  fancy 
names  give  the  accompaniment,  most  always 
the  same  in  all  soups.  Instructive  as  the 
names  often  return  in  cookery  and  most  al- 
ways  imply   the   same  material. 

Soursop — fruit    of    W.    I.    shrub,    allied    to    custard 

apple,  whitish  sub-acid  pulp. 
Souse — cor.  of  saiice,   to   steep  in   sauce. 
Souterage — a  blend  of  wines. 

Sowaus — Scotch  dish  from  the  husks  of  oat,   grain; 
Soy — a    ketchup    of    the    Soy    bean. 
Spaghetti — a  variety  of  macaroni;   thin  and  solid. 


Spanish  nuts  314  Stein wein 

^— ^ 

Spanish  nuts — small   nuts   of  the   filbert  kind. 

Spanish  onions — big,   wholesome  onions. 

Spare  ribs — the  breast  ribs  of  pork  from  which  the 

shoulder  has  been  cut. 
Sparrows — often  eaten  as  larks;   delicious. 
Sparrow  grass — a  variety  of  asparagus. 
Spatchcock — to   split   open   for   broiling. 
Spice — Fr.,   fipice;    Ger.,   Gewiirz. 
Spiced  leave — a  British  cake  with  spices  and  sugar. 
Spigola — ^Italian  fish,   bass   species. 
Spinach — Fr.,    Bpinards;    Ger.,    Spinat. 
Spirits — inflammable    and   intoxicating   liquors. 
Spits — ^Fr.,  Broche;   Ger.,  Bratspiesse. 
Spleen — a  gland  like  organ  found  near  the  stomach 

of  animals,    (milt),   eaten  fried  or  broiled. 
Sponge   cake — a   light  cake  made  with   eggs,    sugar 

and  flour. 
Spoons — Fr.,   Cuillers;    Ger.,   Loeffel. 
Spot — small  American  fish. 
Sprat — Ger.,     Sprotten;    Fr.,     Sprats;     sardine    like 

fish;   smoked  or  broiled. 
Sprouts — young    shoots    springing    from    the    leave- 
axle  of  the  stalks  or  stems  of  cabbages. 
Spruce — ^black   beer,   prepared   from    the   leaves   and 

branches    of   the    spruce-fir. 
Squabs — nestlings    of    pigeons    or    other    birds;    see 

fowl;    poussin;    Kuechlein. 

—  a   r Impromptu;   with  mushrooms  and  gravy. 
SQ[Uash — fancy    name    for    an    American    lemonade; 

acid,     sugar,     sodawater,     straws. 
Squashes — certain    fruits    of    the    gourde    tribe    are 
called  that  name. 

—  Stewed  squash ;   a  mush  of  pumpkin. 
Squirrels — Eichhornchen;      eaten      in      America      as 

delicacies. 

Starch — Fr.,  Amidon;  Ger.,  Starke;  useful  food 
substance;    found    in    plants. 

Stchi — a  Russian  soup  of  beef,  vegetables  and  roots, 
sour  cream. 

Steak — from  stick;  having  been  broiled  on  sticks 
first;  a  piece  of  meat. 

Sirloin  steak — French,   Entrecote. 

Tenderloin   steak — French,    Filet. 

Small  steak — a   small  EntrecSte. 

Steaming — ^boiling  food  without  it  coming  in  con- 
tact  with   water. 

Steinwein — first-class   wine   of   Rhenish     Bavaria. 


stewing 315 Sttttanes 

Stewing — easy    mode     of    cooking    with    vegetaWes, 

herbs  and  seasoning;   between  braising  and  lioil- 

ing;    in  pan  with  lid  on. 
Stewpans — French    Casseroles. 
Stillroom — house    department    where    preserves    aad 

liquors   are   kept ;    buttlers  pantry. 
Stock — a    liquid    or   jelly    containing   the   juices    and 

soluble   parts   of   meat   and    certain   vegetables. 
Stockfish — a   name  given  to   salted,   dried  and  cured 

fish;    suited    to    keeping    in    stock. 
Stomachic    liqueurs — bitters    of    medicinal    qualities. 
Stoppers — a   glass   cork  for  decanters. 
Store-room — room    to    store    groceries,    where    salads 

are    made   in    hotels   and  bread   buttered. 
Stout — a  strong  black  or  brown  beer,  malt  has  been 

dried  almost  to  burning  in  a  kilt. 
Stradella — a    wine    of   Lombardy. 
Strain — to   sieve. 

Strassbourg  pie  and  patees — of  goose's  fat  livers. 
Strawberries — Fr.,  Fraises;   Ger.,  Erdbeeren;   served 

with    cream    and    sugar    in   deep    plate. 
Strudels — a    kind    of   pancakes,    mostly   served    witb 

fruits   and   cinnamon. 
Stuffing — made    with    savoury    forcemeat. 
Sturgeon — Fr.,    Esturgeon;    Ger.,    Stoer;    royal    fish 

of    shark-like    appearance;     female    gives    caviar; 

two-thirds    its    weight ;    bladders    are    made    into- 

icing   glass. 
—  Sterlet;    young    sturgeon,    preferably    cooked. 
Suburek — famous  turkish   dish;   made   of  flour,    salt» 

eggs,  minced  beef,  baked  in  dumpling. 
Succotash — -2-reen  corn   and  Lima  beans  with  cream; 

from  the  Indian,    "m'Sickquatash." 
Sucking — Pie-  a  la  Piemontaise ;    stuffed  with   risoto, 

roasted,    gravy. 
Suedoise — mode    of    preparing    dishes    of    fruit;    see 

sweets;    entrements,    apples. 
Suet — Fr.,   Graise;    Ger.,   Nierenfett. 
Sugar — Fr.,    Sucre;    Ger.,    Zucker. 
Sugar   candy — refined   saturated   syrup,    crystallyzed. 
Sugar   plums — dragees;    caraway   comfits. 
Sulphuric  acid — used  to  free  the  carbonic  acid,  used 

in    aerated    waters. 
Sultanas — a   kind   of   raisins. 
Sultanes — a   moulding   construction   of  boiled  sugaiv 

etc. 


Suppers 316 Sweetbreads 

Suppers — light   repasts;    Fr.,    Soupes;    Ger.,   Abend- 

mahlzeiten. 
Supremes   sauces — see   sauces;   fowl  and  garnitures, 

entremets,    fr.uits,    ices. 
Swartzain — famous    Duch    dish.;     fowl    blood    witli 

vinegar,  fowl  and  giblets. 
Sweetbreads — Fr.,      Eis-de-veau;      Ger.,      Brosclien, 

Milcber;  see  sauces  and  garnitures. 

—  a  la  Virg:inie ;   broiled  on  Virginia  ham ;   for  com- 

plete   list    see    further    down. 

—  Sous  Cloche ;   saute  under  glass  cover  with  mush- 

rooms on  toast. 
• — a  r Admiral;   chaudfroid  with  truffles  and  tongue, 
jelly    on    rice    crust,     salad    of    asparagus    and 
truffles,  mayonnaise  sauce. 

—  a  I'Argenteuil;   with  asparagus  and  cream  sauce. 

—  a    I'Allemande;    fried   with   ragout    of    cepes    and 

livers    in    cream    sauce. 

—  en  Aspic;    in  jelly, 

—  a    la   Bayonnaise ;    stuffed,    braised,    triiffles,    sher- 

ry,  wine  sauce. 

—  en  Bigarure ;   with  various  colored  ragout. 

—  Braise  a  la  Gourmet ;  braised  with  fine  ragout. 

■ —  Braise   a   la   Jardiniere ;    braised  with   vegetables. 

—  a    la    Perigeux;    with    truffles. 

—  a   la   Broche ;    roasted   on   the   spit. 

—  en  Caisses ;  fine  ragout  in  paper  cases. 

—  en  Capisantis;    scalloped  in  silver  shells. 

—  a   la    Cardinal ;    with   oysters    and    crayfish   sauce. 

—  a  la  Careme;   braised  with  combs,   truffles,  mush- 

rooms,   breaded,    gratinee;    German    sauce. 

—  en   Cassotilettes ;   with  truffles   and  rice,   scalloped 

in   small   cups. 

—  a   la   Catalane ;    sliced,    saute  with   shallots,   toma- 

toes and  green  peppers,   Spanish  sauce. 

—  aux    Champignons;     with    mushrooms. 

—  a   la    Chancelliere;    with   noisette   potatoes,    mush- 

rooms  and  tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Chartreuse ;   with  small   vegetable  cups. 

—  a  la  Choiseul ;   breaded,  fried,   stuffed  with  Duxel- 

le,  truffle  sauce. 

—  Cloutes ;    larded  with   smoked   tongue. 

—  Cutlets    a    la    Talleyrand ;    fried    with    artichoke 

bottom,    truffles,    tomato   sauce. 

—  a   la    Colbert ;    breaded  with   butter,   broiled,    Col- 

bert sauce. 
' —  a  la   Conde ;   with  puree  of  field-fares. 


Sweetbreads 317 A  la  Marie  Delorme 

—  a  la  Conti ;   braised,  larded  with  truffles,   Spanish 

sauce  with  madeire. 

—  en  Coquilles ;  scalloped  in  ragout,  filled  in  shells. 

—  a    la    Danbisrny;    breaded,    fried,    mushroom  puree 

with  truffles. 

—  a  la  Dauphine;  with  endive  sauce. 

—  a    la    ]>echazet;    with    kidneys,    bacoa,    mushrooms 

on  skewer. 

—  a   la   Demi-deuil;    larded  with  black   truffles. 

—  a    I'liicarlate;     with    red    tongue,     Spanish    sauce 

with    madeire. 

—  a  I'Espagnole;   larded,  braised  w.   Spanish  sauce. 

—  a  I'Etouffade;  stewed. 

—  a  la  Financiere ;   larded  with   truffles  and  combs, 

financiere    sauce. 

—  a     la    Figdor;     broiled    on    pommps    Anna    with 

broiled    tomato    and    broiled    mushrooms. 
— •  aux    Pines   Herbes;    with   fine   herbs. 
^ — en    Fricandeau;    larded    and   braised. 

—  Frits     a     I'ltalienne;     with     fine     herbs,     egged, 

breaded,  baked. 

—  Glaces;   glazed  with  brown  sauce. 

—  au     Gratin;     sliced     with     Italian     sauce,     bread 

crumbs,    cepes,    cheese    and    baked. 

—  Grilles ;    broiled   with    herb    butter. 

—  a    la   Henry    Quatre ;    larded   and   braised,    brown 

sauce. 

—  anx  Huitres ;   with  oysters. 

—  Isabella ;    stuffed    with    mushroom   pur^e,    tongue, 

truffles,    brown    sauce,    braised. 

—  a   I'Indienne;    curried  with  rice. 

—  au  Jus;  with  gravy. 

—  a    la    Judic ;    braised    in    tomato,    stuffed,    brown 

sauce. 

—  a  la    Laitue  Pomrae;   with  cabbage  lettuce. 

—  a  la  Lieb;  broiled  on  Yirginia  ham,  colbert  sauce. 

—  a   la   Macedoine;    with   mixed   vegetables. 

—  a   la  Maintenon ;    braised  with  onion  puree,   ham, 

tonoue,      truffles,     mushrooms,      chicken     puree, 
German  sauce. 

—  a  la  Marechale;    crusted  and  baked. 

—  a    la    Marsily :    larded    and   braised    on   podpurfie 

and  artichokes. 

—  a    la    Banquiere ;     with    financiere     garnish    and 

sauce. 

—  a    la    Marie    Delorme;     with    artichoke    bottoms 

and  chestnut  puree,   brown  sauce. 


Sweetbreads 318 A  la  St.  Cloud 

—  a  I'AlIemande  braised  with  cucumbers  a  la  creme. 

—  a    la    Maryland ;    with    cream    sauce ;    saute. 

—  a   la   Milanaise ;    larded   and  braised  on   rice   and 

tongue   with   macaroni,    tomatoes. 

—  a  la_  Mirabeau;    larded,    truffled,   braised  in   stock 

with     herbs,     sliced     with     jelly     and     crusts; 
served    cold,     sometimes    vegetable    salad. 

—  a    la    Montpensier;    with    mould    of    truffles    and 

rice. 

—  a    la    Montcalme ;    with    green    peppers    and   Pro- 

vencale    sauce. 

—  a  la  Nantua ;   braised,   stuffed  with  shrimp  puree^ 

sauce   Nantua  with  shrimp  pattis. 
— -a    la    Napolitaine;    with   macaroni   and  tomato    sc. 
sauce. 

—  New  Century;   braised  in  small  turreen  with  foie 

gras,    potato   puree,    sherry   sauce. 

—  a   la    Nivernaise;    braised  with   carrots. 

—  a   la   Ouillet ;    with  truffles  and  supreme  sauce. 

—  a   rOseille;    braised  with   sorrel.  « 

—  Panes;  egged  and  breaded,  sauts. 

—  a     la     Pahetiere ;     stewed    with    port     wine     and 

cream,  saute  with  morrels. 

—  en    Papilottes ;    baked    in    papers. 

—  a   la   Parisienne;    with  truffles   and  mushrooms. 

—  a  la  Perigueux ;   braised  with  truffles. 

—  en  Petite  Caisse ;   scalloped  as  a  ragout  in  paper 

cases. 

—  a   la  Piemontaise ;   with  truffles  and  rice. 

—  Piquees ;    larded    and    braised,    brown    sauce. 

—  Piquees    a    la    Turque ;    on    border    of    forcemeat 

with  rice  in  the   centre. 

—  a  la  Pontelle ;  with  white   sauce  and  mushrooms. 

—  a   la   Porto   Rico ;    with    stuffed   green   and   sweet 

peppers,    colbert    sauce. 

—  a     la     Portugaise ;     baked     with     vegetables     and 

tomato. 

—  a  la   Poulette ;   fricassed. 

—  a   la   Provencale ;    larded   and  braised   with   tara- 

ffon    and    brown    sauce. 

—  a  la  Royale ;  minced  and  saute,  fresh  mushrooms^ 

oyster,    crabs,    white    sauce    with    sherry. 

—  aux    Rognons    a    la    Cordon    Bleu ;    truffles    with 

pistachios    and   border    of   kidneys. 

—  a  la   St.   Charles;   larded,   braise'd  with  Bearnaise 

sauce. 

—  a   la    St.    Cloud ;    with   truffles   and   tomato    sauce. 


Sweetbreads  319  Table  customs 

—  a    la     St.    Gervais;    stuffed    with    truflBes,    sharp 

brown   sauce. 

—  a   la    Saint  Vallier;    with  purde   of  field  fares. 

—  a   la   P^rigueux ;    larded,   braised  with   vegetables 

on    rice;    truffles,    quenelles. 

—  a   la   Tartare ;    cold  with   mustard,   herb   sauce. 

—  a    la,    Trudaine;    saute    in    potato    bordure,    white 

sauce    with    truffles. 

—  a   la   Toulousaine ;    larded,   braised  with  fine  rag- 

out,  quenelles,   cream   sauce. 

—  a    la    George    Vanderbilt;    larded,    braised    with 

roots   and  herbs,   bacon,   patties  with  fine  rag- 
out   in    madeire. 

—  a    la    Villeroy;     sliced,     breaded,     egged,     baked, 

white    sauce,    vegetables. 

—  en    Vol-au-Vent;    scalloped    with    fine    ragout    in 

pare    mould. 

—  a  la   Zcarina ;    sautd  in  cream  with   cucumbers. 

—  a    la    Zurichoise;    truffled    on    socle. 

—  a  la  Lavaliere ;  with  mushrooms  in   cream,   green 

peppers    and    purde    of    tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Maubeuge ;    with  Toulouse   garnish   in   crust. 

—  a    la    Calabrese;    with    spaghetti    Milanaise,    truf- 

fles. 
Sweet   sop — fruit   of   plant,    like    custard   apple    and 

sour    sop. 
Swiss    roll — delicious    pastry;    rolled    up    cake    with 

marmalade. 
Swiss    wines — production   below    the    local    demand; 

good    and   first-class. 
Sword    fish — Fr.,     Espadont;     Ger.,     Schwertf  isch ; 

delicate,    flaky_  and   tender. 
Syllalub — a    strained    drink;    wine    or    cider    mixed 

with   milk,    flavor   and   wine,    frothed. 
Syphons — bottles  for  holding  aerated  water,   having 

an   automatic   action. 
Syra — a    sour    driijk,    prepared    from    milk-whey    in 

Iceland   and  Norway. 
Syracuse  wine — Sicilian,   resembling  Chablis. 
Syrup — Fr.,   Syrop;   Ger.,    Syrup;   a   saturated   solu- 
tion   of    sugar    in    water. 

Table  customs — there  is  but  one  nation  that  has 
them;  viz.  the  English;  all  other  nations  are 
generally  off  the  track.  The  French  eat  like 
hogs;  the  Germans  like  boers  and  the  Amer- 
icans   like   fools.      The   French   are    the   only   na- 


Table  customs 320 Tartaric  acid 

tion  that  can  prepare  a  delicious  meal  and  ap- 
preciate it,  but  the  English  are  the  nation  that 
can   properly   eat   it. 

Table  d'Hotes — lit.  the  host's  table;  a  set  meal  at 
a  certain  hour  at  a  set  price. 

Table  service — anybody  who  wants  to  be  a  good 
server  at  table.  Please  study  this  book  and 
practice     will    do    the   rest. 

Tablets — sweet  meats,  made  in  the  shape  of  flat 
squares. 

Tafia — the   Spanish  name   for  a   spirit   or  ruia. 

Tagliarini — a   kind   of   short  paste,   used  in  Italy. 

Tailli-kataif — delicious  dish  of  Turkey;  nuddles  of 
batter  with  butter  and  orange-syrup,  baked  in 
biscuit   moulds. 

Tails-r-Fr.,  Queuess ;  used  in  soups  and  stewes^ 
as    oxtail,    etc. 

Tamara — an    Italian    stock    of   mixed    spice. 

Tamarinds — ^Fr.,  Tamarins;  Ger.,  Tamarinden;  fruit 
of  tree,  mostly  preserved  in  syrup;  grows  in  the- 
form.  of  a  bean,  purple  filaments,  flower  with 
brown  anthers ;  delicious  perfume.  Fruit  consists- 
of  brittle  brown  shell  with  soft  acid,  brown 
pulp,   traversed  by  woody  fibres;   Johannis-Brod. 

Tambour,    a   la — with   mashed   potatoes,    gratine. 

Tammy — Fr.,  Tamis;  Ger.,  Stamin;  a  kind  of 
woolen  cloth,  used  for  straining. 

Tangerines — a   sub   variety   of   oranges,    Mandarines. 

Tankards — vessels   for   holding   liquids. 

Tansy — Fr.,  Tanaisie;  Ger.,  Kamfarn;  an  aromatic, 
bitter    tasting   plant ;    flavoring. 

Taps — stoppers   of   casks. 

Tapioca — Fr.,  Tapioca;  Ger.,  Tapioka;  a  starch 
obtained  from  the  Janipha  Manihot;  root,  trop- 
ical plant,  prepared  by  washing  and  drying  on 
hot  plates ;  soluble  in  boiling  water  with  which 
it   forms    a   nutritious   jelly. 

Tar — a  liquid  bitumen,  prepared  "from  the  wood  of 
a  pine  species;  also  by  product  of  gas  making 
from    coal;    medicinal    property. 

Tare — a  plant  like  rhubarb;  leaves  are  eaten  like 
f  spinach,   roots  like  potatoes. 

Taragon — Fr.,  Estragon;  Ger.,  Schlangenkraut;  a 
herb    flavor. 

Tartare — see   cream   of  tartare;   in  Barbaric  style. 

Tartaric  acid — used  in  baking  powders,  a  sub- 
stitute  for   lemon-juice. 


Tarts 321 Terrinea 

Tarts   and   Tartelettes — made   of   puff-paste   to   hold 

fruits,    etc.,    for    pies. 
Taste — Fr.,   Gout;    Ger.,   Geschmack. 
Tawntatalet — a    Turkish    dish,    minced    fowl    breasts 

in    rice,    batter   with    caramel,    boiled. 
Tea — Fr.,    The;    Ger.,    Thee;    an   infusion   in  boiling 

water    of    the    leaves    of    a    shrub ;    invigorating 

and     enervating;     drunk    with    sugar,     cream    or 

lemon. 

—  Iced   tea;    see   ices. 

Teal  duck — Fr.,  Sarcelle;  Ger.,  Kriekente;  small 
delicious  wild  duck,  broiled  or  roasted;  served 
with  currant  jelly  when  broiled;  and  jelly  and 
fried  hominy   Vhen   roasted. 

Tedj — a  honey  drink  or  beer,  made  in  Abessinia 
from  honey  combs,  fermented  in  water  with 
the  bark  and  leaves  of  a  bitter  shrub. 

Tenareeze — a   French   brandy,    inferior. 

Tench — Fr.,  Tanche;  Ger.,  Schleihe;  see  fishes, 
sauces    and    garnitures. 

Tendons — Fr.,   Tendons,   Sinews;    Ger.,   Sehnen. 

Terrapin — Fr.,  Terapene;  Ger.,  Schildkrote;  small 
tortoise ;    salt   marshes,   America. 

Terrapin — put  the  deep  terrapin  plate  before  the 
guest  on  a  big  flat  plate,  hand  toast  around  first, 
put  chafing  disli  pan  on  a  silver  tray  and  serve 
around. 

—  a   la  Baltimore ;   brown  sauce  with  flour,  madeire 

and    broth,    salt,    cayenne    pepper,    minced    ter- 
rapin, butter,   lemon-juice  in  chafing  dish  with 
toast    and    terapin    plate. 
Terrapin    a    la    Robert    Bonner — minced    with    salt, 
pepper,   madeire,    yolks,   butter  and  cream. 

—  a  la  McGovern;   minced  with  butter,   salt,   cayen- 

ne   pepper,    stewed   with    madeire,    lemon-juice, 
chopped   parsley. 

—  a  la  Maryland;   minced  with  butter,   stewed  with 

salt   and   cayenne   pepper,   egg-yolks   and   sweet 
cream,    in   chafing   dish;    serve   as   before. 

—  a    la    Newburgh ;    like    Maryland,    but    with    raw 

eggs    and    ti-uffles,    sherry. 

—  a    la    Bradley    Martin ;    with    cream,    sherry    and 

oyster    crabs,     egg-yolks,     truffles.       For    other' 
preparations  see   sauces,   garnitures. 
Terrines — vessels    made    of    earthenware    that    will 
stand    heat;    mostly    filled    with    savoury    meats. 


Terrines 322 Tipparees 

— ^  a    la    Bontoux;    of   macaroni,    tongue,    mushrooms 

and   cheese,    baked   with   tomato   sauce. 
Teste — an  Indian  heverage  of  pounded  Indian  corn 

•with   water   and   chocolate,    sweetened. 
Theine — the   active  principle  of  tea. 
Thrushes — Fr.,    Grives;     Ger.,    Drosseln;    see    fowl, 

sauces  and  garnitures. 
Thumb-hits — pieces    of    toast,    spread   with    savoury 

paste. 
Thunny — a     delicious    large     fish,     somewhat     like 

salmon. 
Thyme — Fr.,  Thym;   Ger.,  Thsrmian. 
Tid-bits — the    choice   morsels   of   food,    or   patties. 
Choice    Morsels — of    roasted    fowl;     the    breast     of 
boiled  fowl;    the   leg,   liver,   gizards  and  shoulder 
of   a   rabbit ;    the   brain   and   the    sounds    of   cod- 
fish;   the   thin   or   fat   of   salmon;    the   thick   and 
fins    of    turbot;    liver,    roe    and    the    fat    of   veni- 
son,   lamb,    veal    kidneys ;    the    long    cuts    from    a 
haunch    of   venison    or   mutton;    the    oyster   of    a 
mutton   shoulder;    the   ribs   and   neck   of   a   suck- 
ing  pig;    the    small   bones   of   a   breast   of   lamb; 
the  rib   cartilaghes   of  breast   of  veal;    the   back 
pieces,   ears   and  brain  of   hare;   the  breast   and 
thighs    of    Turkey    and    goose;    the    breast    of    a 
duck;     the    wings    and    breast    of    game    birds; 
ears,  eyes  and  cheeks  of  calf's  head. 
Tierce — thirty-five  imperial  gallons. 
Tiger's  milk — a   drink,    strong,    syrup  with   orange- 
juice,    cinnamon,    peach   liquor   or   brandy,    sweet 
cider,    new    milk,     white    of    egg,     frothed    and 
served. 
Timbales — thimble    moulds,    mostly   made    of   batter 
and   filled. 

—  a  I'Andalouse;    of   chicken. 

—  a  la  Toulousaine ;  batter  mould  filled  with  white 

stew    of    sweet    breads,    minced    cream    sauce 
with    olives,    fowl,    quenelles,    mushrooms,    etc. 

—  a  la  Rothschild;  with  goose  liver,  chestnut  sauce 

and   truffles. 

Tinctures — alcoholic  essence,  obtained  by  macera- 
tion. 

Tinta — a  Ma^eire  wine  of  dark  color,  resembling 
Burgundy. 

Tipparees — Cape  gooseberry;  allied  to  winter  cher- 
ry;   acid  taste. 


Tipsy  cake  323  Tournedos 

Tipsy    cake — cake    saturated    in    wine;     stuck    with 

almonds. 
Tisanes — farinaceous     drink,     medicated     barley     or 

rice   with    tamarind   water    or   lemon-juice. 
Tis  wine — drink  prepared  in  Mexico  from   the  fruit 

of    the    giant    cactus. 
Toad-in-the-hole — a   savoury  batter  pie. 
Toast — slices  of  bread,  fried  brown  before  the  open 

fire    or    in    fat. 
Toast   rack — a    small    stand   to    hold    slices   of   toast 

apart,    so    they   remain    crisp. 
Toasts — savoury  meats   spread  or  laid  upon  toasted 

bread. 
Tobinambourg — Jerusalem    artichokes. 
Toddy — a   mixture    of   spirit   and   hot  water. 
Toffy,    taffy    or    toffee — a    sweet    meat    in    squares, 

made   from   molasses. 
Tokay — chief   Hungarian   wine,    made   from   overripe 

grapes,    carefully    picked. 
Tomatoes — Fr.,    Tomates;    Ger.,    Liebesapfel,    Para- 

diesapfel;    see    hors    d'oeuvres,    sauces    and    gar- 
nishes. 

—  a  la  Buck;    stewed  in   quarters. 

—  en  Surprise;   stuffed  with  celery  and  mayonnaise, 

lettuce   and   chervil. 

—  a    la    Moderne ;    stuffed   with   forcemeat    and   ma- 

yonnaise. 
Tongues — Fr.,    Langues;    Ger.,    Zungen;    see    sauces 
and    garnitures. 

—  a    I'Ecarlate;    red,    pickled,    mostly    served    with 

spinach. 
Tops  and  bottoms — nursery  biscuits  of  special  merit. 
Tortoise     broth — made     from     the     common     garden 

tortoise. 
Tortoni  biscuits — an  ice;   see  biscuits  and  ices. 
Tortue — French    for    turtle. 

—  en    Tortue ;    brown    sauce    with    quenelles,    sweet 

breads,  olives,  etc. 
Toulouse    a   la — a    garnish;    see   there;    white   sauce 

with    quenelle,    sweet    breads,    etc. 
Tournedos — small     collops     (steaks)     of    filets;     see 

beef,    sauces   and   garnishes. 

—  a    la    Benjamin;    saute    on    toast,    stuffed    naush;- 

rooms,  madeire  sauce,   tomatoes. 

—  a  la   Bristol;    saute  with   croquette   of   corn,   car- 

rots,   potatoes,    brown    sauce. 


Tournedos 524 A  la  Stanley 

—  a  la   Cafe  Riclie;   with  minced  tomatoes,   Parisian 

potatoes,  bearnaise  and  truffles. 

—  a    la    Chasseur ;    saute   with    champignons,    brown 

sauce. 
" —  a   la   Colbert ;   with  poached  egg  and  truffles,   Col- 
bert   sauce. 

—  a  la  Helder;    boiled  Parisian  potatoes,   Bearnaise, 

tomatoes,    demi-glace. 

—  a  la  Henry  Quatre ;   saute  with  potatoes,  rissoles. 

—  a    la    Isman    Bayeldy;    saute    with    tomatoes,    egg- 

plant and  brown  sauce. 

■• —  a  la  Massena ;  saute  with  artichoke  bottom,  mar- 
row  and  truffle   sauce. 

- —  a  la  Marion  Delorme ;  with,  artichoke  bottoms, 
chestnut    puree    and    brown    sauce. 

—  a    la   Monaco ;    saute   with    brown   sauce,    chervil, 

ham   and  truffles. 
= —  a     la     Montebello ;     Bearnaise     tomatoes,     brown 
sauce,  artichoke  bottom,  cepes. 

—  a    la    Nicoise ;     saute    with    demi-glace,    tomatoes 

and  olives. 

—  a    la    Parmentier ;    with    potato    croquettes,    arti- 

choke    bottoms    with    ham    and    cream    sauce 
with  madeire. 

—  a    la    President ;    saute,    bordelaise    with    minced 

fowl    and    jardiniere. 

—  a   la   Quirinale ;    with   marrow   and   stuffed  mush- 

rooms,   mushroom    sauce. 
— —  a   la    Rachel;    demi-glace,    artichoke   bottom   with 
peas,    Bearnaise   tomatee. 

—  a  la  Reforme ;   with  julienne  of  tongue  and  ham, 

pickles,   mushrooms,   pepper    sauce. 

—  a     la     Rossini;     with     goose     liver     and     truffles, 

Madeire    sauce. 

—  a    la    Riche ;    artichoke   bottom   with   green   peas, 

Bearnaise,    straw   potatoes. 

—  a    la    Richelieu ;    with    stuffed    tomatoes,    braised 

lettuce,    demi-glace. 

—  a    la    Sherry ;    saute    with    fresh    mushrooms    and 

green  peppers. 

—  a    la    Sherron ;     brown    sauce,    artichoke    bottom 

with    peas.    Bearnaise    tomatoes. 

—  a   la   Saint  Hilaire;    saute   with  tomatoes,    green 

peppers,    mushrooms,    demi-glace. 

—  a    la     Saint     Germain ;     artichoke    bottoms    with 

mushrooms,   Madeire   sauce,   pea   puree. 

—  a  la  Stanley;  with  horseraddish  &  fried  bananas. 


Tournedos    325  Turban 

—  a  la  Talleyrand;   with  brown  sauce  &  vegfttables. 

—  a    la   Renaissance;    saute   with    artichoke   bottom, 

tomato    and    jardiniere,    jja-rnish. 

—  a    la    Trianon ;     with    st^'aw    potatoes,    Bcarnaise 

and  brown   sauce. 

—  a   la    Ventadour;    on   toast   with   artichoke   puree, 

truffles,    marrow,    potatoes,    Colbert    sauce. 

Tournedos  a  la  Villemer — saute  on  toast  with  onion 
puree,    truffle    and    truffle    sauce. 

Tourte — the    French   word   for   tart. 

Tous-les-mois — the  starch  obtained  from  the  un- 
derground stems  of  Canna  Edulis;  substitute  for 
arrow   root. 

Trays — a  small  trough;  a  salver;  plateau;  Servier- 
brett. 

Treacle — syrup   from   sugar  refineries. 

Trepany — Chinese  name  for  beache  de  mer. 

Trifles — mostly  cakes,  soaked  in  wine  with  fruits 
and    whipped    cream. 

Tripe — Fr.,  Tripe;  Ger.,  Flecke,  Kaldaunen;  the 
large  stomach  of  animals.  See  sauces  and  gar- 
nitures. 

—  a   I'Ansclaise;    broiled   with   Maitre   butter. 

—  a    la    Mode    de    Caen;     stewed    with    demi-glace, 

tomato    !?aucc   and   green   peppers. 

—  Honeycomb    tribe;    the    second    stomach. 

—  a   la    Orly ;    fried   in    batter. 

—  a    la    Caennaise;    cut   up   with   bacon,    broth   and 

brandy,   onions,  herbs,   calf's  food. 
Triple  tail — an  edible  fish,   salt  water;    the  grouper. 
Triturate — to    grind    into    a    fine    powder. 
Trivet — a  tr'ilegged   support  to   hold  kettles. 
Trois  six — a  French  spirit. 
Trotters — sheep's  feet. 
Trou  Normand — a   sherbet. 

Trout — Fr.,     Truites;     Ger.,     Forellen;     of    the    sal- 
mon   tribe;    see    sauces,    garnitures    and    pike. 
Trubu — a   kind   of   herring. 
Truffles — Fr.,   Truffes;    Ger.,   Triiffeln;    genus  Tuber; 

a   fine    flavor;    grows    in    balls    in    the    earth   and 

is   hunted  up   by  pigs   and   dogs. 

—  en  Serviette ;  in  chafing  dish  with  brown  sauce. 
Trussing — to  dress  food,  preparatory  to  cooking. 
Turban — border  like  Turkish  headgear;   mostly  with 

fruits  and  ice;   entremets,   sweets. 

—  a   I'Annanas;    pineapple   on   baba   au   rum,    syrup 

sauce. 


"Turban 326 Veal 

—  a    la    Grimod   de    la    Reyniere ;    Savarin   with   ap- 

ricot   marmelade,    pineapple,    cherries. 

—  a     la     Messinoise;     pate     d'abricots,     alternately 

with    Savarin    au   Khum. 
Turbot — Ger.,    Steinbutte;    highly   prized;    see   pike, 

sauces    and    garnitures. 
Tureen — Fr.,  Terrine;   Ger.,  Topf. 
Turkeys — Fr.,    Dindes;    Ger.,    Truthahn;     see    fowl, 

sauces   and  garnitures;    giblet  sauce:    when  roast, 

turkey   should   always   be   served   with   cranberry 

sauce. 

—  Rhode    Island    Turkey ;    superior,    mostly    stuffed 

with  chestnuts  when  roasted. 

Turmeric — the  root  stock  of  a  Singalese  plant,  rich 
yellow   aromatic   odor,    a   curry. 

Turnips — Fr.,  Navets;    Ger.,  Rtiben. 

Turnovers — pies  or  tarts  made  by  turning  one-half 
of  the  crust  over  the  other  and  enclosing  the 
fruit    or    other   material. 

Turtle — Fr.,  Tortue;  Ger.,  Schildkrote;  now  im- 
ported, dried  in  the  sun,  or  as  Calipa  extract 
in  bottles ;    turtle   fins  in  tins. 

—  Green    turtle    soup;    with    meat    and    sherry. 
Tutti    frutti — Italian   for    all    sorts    of   fruit;    mostly 

an    ice-cake    with    different    ices    and    fruits. 
Twelfth  cakes — formerly  baked  for  the   twelfth  day 

after  Christmas;   iced,   decorated. 
Twists — mostly    applied    to    bread    rolls    and    cakes 

of    twisted    batter. 
Two-penny — inferior   beer,    eighteenth    Century. 

Udder — Fr.,  Tetine  Ger.,  Enter;  the  bag  of  a  cow 
which  contains  the  milk  glands;  calf's  udder 
used  to  wrap  up  cromesquis;  cow's  udder  used 
like  tripe. 

Usquebauch — water  of  life;   Gaelic  for  whiskey. 

Vacherin — a    French   paste    like    meringue,    used   to 

hold  whipped  cream  mostly. 
Valgiano- — -a  wine  of  Tuskany. 
Vanilla — Fr.,   Vanille;    Ger.,   Banille;    of  the   orchid 

tribe,    one   of   the   strongest   flavors ;    mostly  used 

in  sweets,  the  pods  only. 
Vatrovskis — Russian   cheese    turnovers. 
Vats — large  vessels,  used  for  holding  wine  or  beer. 
Veal — Fr.,  Veau;    Ger.,  Kalb,  Kalbfleisch;    see  beef, 

sauces,    garnitures. 


Veal 327 Vicou 

Veal  Brissotin — the  same  as  paupiette,  breaded  and 
fried. 

—  Stuffed  Breast  a  la   Crecy;   braised  with  carrots, 

tomatoes,    green   peppers. 

—  Longe    de    Veau;     loin    of    veal    or    the    chump; 

Kalbsnierenbraten. 

—  Chops  a  la  Minute;   saute  with  truffles  and  gravy. 

—  Noix   de   Veau;    cushion   of   veal. 

Veal  a  la  Marengo — stewed  with  tomatoes  and  mush- 
rooms. 

—  Noisettes;    filets    of    veal. 

—  a    la     Choisy;     saute    with    braised    lettuce    and 

potatoes. 
Vegetables — Fr.,  Legumes;   Ger.,   Gemiise. 
Vegetable  marrows — Fr.,  Aubergines;  Ger.,  Pflanzen- 
mark;   not  to   be  confused  with  egg-plant. 

—  Fried   vegetable   marrow;    in   round   slices,    fried; 

serve   dry,   four  to   a  portion. 

Veirga — a  Russian  table  delicacie,  made  from  the 
spinal  marrow  of  the  sturgeon ;  prepared  with 
aromatic  spice«. 

Venison — Fr.,  Venaison;  Ger.,  Eeh;  see  sauces,  gar- 
nitures,   beef,    pheasant. 

—  a  la  St.  Hubert ;  with  French  prunes. 

—  en  Daube;  stewed. 

—  a   la  Yellowstone  Hotel;    collops  in  paper. 

—  Cimier;    Rehziehmer,    Haunch    or    backbone. 

—  Civet;   Rehwildbret  pfeffer;  jugged  roebuck  veni- 

son. 

—  Chops  a  la  Tyrolienne ;  broiled  with  currant    jelly 

sauce  and  marmelade  of  apples. 

—  Chevreuil :    Reh     (bnck)  ;     Roe     (buck);    roe-deer. 
Chevrette — Rehziege,    Ricke,    Doe,    Roe. 

— •  aux    Vitelots;    with    nuddle    dumplings. 

—  Chevrillard;    fawn;    einjiihriges  Rehkalb. 
Verjuis — Fr.,    Verjus;    sour    juice    of    crab    apples; 

unripe    grnpes.    etc.,    used   instead   of   lemon. 

Vermicelli— Fr.,  Vermicelle;  Ger.,  Fadennudeln;  lit- 
tle  worms    of   Italian   paste,    dried. 

Vert-pre — green  herb  butter. 

Vermouth — a  bitter  of  wormwood,  white  wine, 
orange,   wine   and   sweetened. 

Viands — derived  from  vivenda,  latin,  victuals,  pro- 
visions. 

Vichy  water — Celestin  and  Hospital,  Grand  Grille, 
etc.,  stomachic  waters,  merit. 

Vicou — a  beverage,  made  from  plantain,  Indian. 


Vidogaa 328 Walnuts 

Vidogna — a  Madeire  wine  from  Tenerriffe. 

Vienna  heer — dark  amber  colored. 

Vienna  rolls — see  bread. 

Vinasse — brown  liquor,  residue  of  the  destination-  of 

beetroot    wine. 
Vine    leaves — as    a    wrapping    for    small    birds,    or 

stuffed   with   forcemeats. 
Vinegar — Fr.,     Vinaigre;     Ger.,     Essig;     best    made 

from  sour  cider  or  wine. 
Vino    Colto — :a    cordial    from   wine ;    must    be    boiled 

with  potasn. 
Vino    Santo — an   Italian   wine. 
Vinregno — a    medicinal   wine    from   beef,    Port   wine, 

malt  and  quinine, 
Vins    de    Liqueur — French    name    for    sweet    sugar 

wines. 
Vins   ordinaire — French   name   for   small   wines. 
, Violets — Veilchen;    used    in    confectionery,    and    as 

substitute    for    Orris-root. 
Vivo — a    beef    tea. 

Vodka — inferior   rye   whisky,    made    in   Russia. 
Vol-au-Vents — light    puff-paste    with    raised    border, 

thimble    moulds,    filled    with    savoury    or    creamy 

ragout ;    see   sauces   and   garnitures. 
Voslauer — best   Austrian   wine,    sparklin-g    and    still. 
Vouara — a  beverage  prepared  from  the  fruit  of  the 

plantain. 

Wafers — Fr.,  Gauffrettes;  Waffeln,  in  America 
Waffles,  often  eaten  for  breakfast  with  maple- 
syrup;    in   Europe    a    sweet,    or    entremet. 

Wafer  paper — used  as  a  basis  for  maccaroons,  etc., 
made   of   flour,    water,    sugar,    cinnamon. 

Waffles — Fr.,  Gauffres;  Ger.,  Waffeln;  soft  indented 
cakes,  made  in  irons  or  tongs;  in  America  often 
eaten  for  breakfast  with  maple  syrup. 

Waiters — trays  and  salvers  are  known  by  that 
name;  also  a  much  abused  class  of  men,  who 
would  be  better  off  if  they  did  not  have  to  de- 
pend upon  charity  for  compensation  of  their 
work. 

Waldmelster^Asperule  Odorante ;  a  strong  smelling 
herb ;  used  largely  in  Germany  to  flavor  wine- 
cups  ;    May-Krauter. 

Walnuts — Fr.,  Noix;  Ger.,  Niisse;  often  eaten  as 
accompaniment  with  wine,    or  salted  as  a  relish. 


Walnuts 329 Whiting 

pickled    as    a    fine    pickle,    in    confection    glazed 

and   sugared. 
Wassail — bowl;     sweetened    bale    with    toast     and 

apples. 
Water — Fr.,  Eau;  Ger.,  Wasser. 
Water    suchet — Dutch,    Zotge ;    a    fish-broth;    cut   up 

fish   in   bouillon   with  parsley,   roots ;    eaten  with 

the    broth;    should   be    accompanied    by    buttered 

brown    bread. 
Wedding  cakes — big  ornamental  cakes. 
Weever — Fr.,    Vive;    seacat;    see   fishes,    sauces   and 

garnitures. 
Weevils — small    beetles    who    deposit    their    eggs    in 

biscuits,    heat   kills   them, 
Weiss   Beer — a   pale   white  beer,   brewed  principally 

in    North    Germany.  « 

Wheat — Fr.,   Froment;    Ger.,   Weizen. 
Wheatears — Fr.,    Motteux;    small    singing   bird;    the 

English    ortolans. 
Wheelks — Fr.,  Buccins;  Ger.,  Kinkhorner;  shellfish; 

Seeschnecke. 
Whey — Fr.,    Petit    Lait;    Ger.,    Molken;    the    liquid 

portion  of  milk  after  the  curd  has  been  separated 

from    it. 
Whisking — to  Avhisk;   to  whip  up;    to  froth;    Schlag- 

sahne,    Eier. 
Whisky — a   spirit   obtained   from   malt,   or  grain,   or 

both. 

—  American  rye   whisky;    of   amber   color,   made   of 

rye. 
Whitebait — Fr.,    Blanchaille;     Ger.,     Breitling;    pan- 
ache,   fried    with    oyster    crabs. 

—  Fried;     serve    with    tartare     sauce,     lemon,     but- 

tered  brown  bread. 

—  Omelette   a    la   Napolitaine;    a   pancake   with   the 

fish. 
Whitefish — silver     salmon,     a    fish     of     the     salmon 

tribe;    (lakes). 
White   puddings — Fr.,    Boudins   blanc;    Ger..    Weisse 

Wiirste;  made  of  onions,  lard,  fowl,  bread  crumbs 

with   milk,    spices,    cream,   egg-yolks  with   onions, 

eaten  broiled. 
Whites — the  best  class  of  pastry  flour. 
Whiting — Fr.,    Merlans;     Ger.,    Weisslinge;     a    pale 

and  silvery  fish  of  the  cod-family.     Fried;   served 

with  lemons  and   tartare^  sauce.     For  others,   see 

pike,    sauces,    garnitures." 


Widgeon 330 Yorkshire  pudding 

Widgeon — a  species  of  wild  fowl,  broiled  &  roasted. 
Wild  duck — Wildenten,  canetons  sauvage;  see  ducks, 

canetons,    canvas-back. 
Wild  goose — not  often  cooked,  inferior. 
Wines — Fr.,  Vins;   Ger.,  Weine;   fermented  juice  of 
grapes ;     see    Buffet.       The    best    years    are    the 
following: 

Rhine  wine — 1827,  84,  35,  42,  46,  48,  57,  58, 
59,  61,  62,  65,  68,  74,  86,  93,  97,  1900 
and  1903. 
Burgundys — 1858,  65,  68,  70,  74,  77,  81,  85, 
87,  90,  92,  93,  94,  95,  96,  98,  1899  and 
1903. 
Bordeaux — 1864,    69,    74,    75,    77,    88,    90,    91, 

93,    96,    1899    and    1900. 
Champagne — 1865,     68,     74,     80,     84,    89,     92, 
♦  93,    95,    1899    and    1900. 

In  France  wines  are  classified  in  Grand  vin, 
Vins  fin,  Vins  ordinaire  and  Vins  commun; 
all  wine  should  be  shown  the  customer  before 
the  cork  is  extracted,  so  that  guest  can  verif  j 
his  order;  see  buffet. 
Woodcocks — Fr.,  Becasses;   Ger.,  Schnepfen;   cooked 

with  the   entrails ;    see   fowl,   sauces. 
Wood   hen — the   female   snipe. 
Wood    pigeons — species    of    wild    birds,    cook    like 

pigeons. 
Woodruff — ^Waldmeister ;    Maikrauter. 
Wood  sorrel — shamrock. 

Wormwood — Fr.,  Absinthe;  Ger.,  Wermuth,  a  plant 
allied  to  taragon;  used  for  absinthe,  vermouth 
and  other  bitters. 
Wort — ^malt  liquid  before  fermentation. 
Yams — Fr.,  Ignames;  Ger.,  Yamskartoffeln ;  large 
fleshy  tuberous  roots,  resembling  Jerusalem  ar- 
tichokes and  potatoes;  close  likeness  to  sweet 
potatoes.  ( 

Yarmouth  bloaters — a  smoked  herring. 
Yeast — Fr.,    Ferment;    Ger.,    Gascht;    of    flour    and 

moisture  to  leaven  dough. 
Yorkshire  pie — galantine  packed  in  tureen,  or  a 
fowl  pie  of  stuffed  chicken  with  ham,^  tongue, 
game,  stuck  in  a  goose,  covered  with  pie  paste. 
Yorkshire  puddings — in  squares,  one-half  inch 
thick  of  eggs,  flour,  milk,  nutmeg,  thick  pan- 
cake;  goes  well  with  relevees.  removes. 


Zakonski 331 Zwiebacke 

Zakouski — Russian  hors  d'oeuvres;  taken  before 
dinner;  eaten  from  a  buffet  with  all  kinds  of 
liquors. 

Zakuska — a  service  of  hors  d'oeuvre. 

Zampino — foreleg   and  foot  of  a   young  pig. 

Zanders — Fr.,  Sandres;  see  fishes,  sauces,  garni- 
tures. 

Zephyres — a  kind  of  souffles;  hot  or  cold  of  gelatine, 
milk,    cheese   and    cream. 

Zest — Fr.,  Zeste;  the  yellow  surface  of  oranges  and 
lemon;    containing   the   peel   oil. 

Zrazy — a  Polish  dish;  slices  of  beef,  fried  with 
butter,    shallots,    spices,    potatoes. 

Zwiebacke  or  Zwiebachen — twice  cooked,  a  crisp 
toasted    biscuit. 


332 


SOME    HINTS   ON    SERVICE. 


Single  guests  are  best  served  by  putting  dishes 
in  front  of  them  and  allowing  them  to  help  them- 
selves. 

Two  guests  sitting  on  one  table  are  shown  the 
dishes  first  and  then  the  different  things  are  served 
out  on  a  side-table  and  handed  over.  The  guest 
being  served  first  and  the  host  last;  in  case  of 
doubt  as  to  who  may  happen  to  be  the  host,  serve 
the  eldest  one  first. 

The  same  rule  obtains  for  parties  consisting  of 
more  then  two  people,  here  all  ladies  are  served 
first  according  to  age. 

Vegetables  are  always  dished  out  on  the  table. 
Inquiry  should  be  made  if  the  patron  wishes  a 
separate  vegetable  dish  (plate,  small  and  deep), 
and  in  case  of  small  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  etc., 
being  served;  a  tea-spoon  should  be  given  as  a 
matter  of  course.  In  the  case  of  large  parties  vege- 
tables are  served  around,  so  that  each  guest  can 
help  himself. 

After  the  dishing  out  has  been  performed  the 
dishes  with  the  remaining  viands  should  possibly 
be  set  on  the  guest's  table,  specially  if  no  heaters 
are  provided   on  the   service   tables. 

The  waiter  is  expected  to  help  the  guest  a  sec- 
ond time  if  he  so  desires  it.  Steaks  are  usually 
carved  in  two  thick  pieces  out  of  the  centre,  gar- 
nished with  some  cresses  from  the  dish  and  a  little 
(never   much)    herb-butter. 

In  America  wild  ducks  are  always  served  with 
jelly,  as  well  as  game  and  roast  mutton. 

Large  will  ducks,  when  roasted,  should  be  served 
additionally  with  fried  hominy  and  the  carcasse 
squeezed  in  the  forwarmed  press;  only  the  wings 
and  the  breast  are  served  of  this  fowl  and  the  blood 
from  the  press  is  served  over  them  after  having 
bf^en  heated  in  a  chafing  dish  or  very  hot  deep 
plate,  and  sometimes  seasoned  with  celery  salt. 
Care  should  be  taken  that  no  fat  mingles  with  this 


333 

juice.  In  the  case  of  canvas  baff-ducks,  a  season- 
ing of  hashed  liver  (fowl)  and  brandy  or  sherry, 
orang:e-,iiiice  and  paprika  is  given  and  prepared 
before  the  guest's  eye.  The  same  applies  to  Rouen- 
naise  ducks.  Roast  or  cold  lamb  should  always  be 
served    with    mint    sauce    or   mint   jollv,    respectively. 

All  shafing  dishes  should  be  served  with  terrapin 
plates  and  toast  if  they  do  not  contain  birds  or 
steaks,  (venison  steaks),  which  are  sometimes 
served  in   chafing   dishes. 

Deep  plates,  cream  and  poudered  sugar  must  be 
served  with  cereals,  (breakfast  food).  Hot  deserts 
ought  to  be  served  with  hot  dessert  plates  and  cold 
desserts  with   cold   dessert  plates   from   the  ice   box. 

Also  should  all  fresh  fruit  be  ice-cold  when 
served. 

All  dishes  liable  to  make  the  fingers  sticky,  should 
be   followed  by  a   finger-bowl. 

C4rape  fruits,  when  served  with  cherries  and 
maraskino,  should  have  the  liquor  separate  and  the 
waiter  should  go  around  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit 
in  such  a  way,  that  the  guest  can  bid  him  stop, 
when  he  thinks  that  his  taste  for  liquors  has  had 
its  share.  The  liquor-bottle  is  sometimes  given  to 
the  guest  himself,  as  some  people  are  a  little  par- 
ticular on  that  score.  Don't  forget  the  sugar  and 
tea-spoon. 

All  broiled  fish  should  be  served  with  lemon  and 
herb-butter. 

Waiters  should  train  their  eye  and  see  that  salt, 
pepper,  bread,  butter  and  ice  water  are  always  on 
the  table  and  are  replenished  in  due  time,  even  in 
rush  hours.  They  should  serve  mustard  and  sauces 
without  being  asked  for  them  with  all  dishes  that 
mav   possibly   require    this    addition. 

Never  remove  cork  from  sauce  or  catchup  bottles 
or  shake  them;  let  the  guest  do  this  according  to 
his    taste. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  waiters  should  help 
their  guests  in  and  out  of  their  wraps  and  coats, 
also  push  their  chairs,  when  they  come  or  prepare 
to  leave.  They  should  also  look  underneath  the  table 
to  see  if  anything  has  been  dropped,  lost,  or  for- 
gotten. They  will  then  be  in  time  to  restore  it  to 
the  a:uest  before  he  leaves  the  place. 

The  waiter's  fee  is  usually  ten  per  cent  of  the 
bill,    thoTigh   of  course   he   has   no   means  to  enforce 


334  __^ 

this  unwritten  law,  but  seeing  that  every  man  is 
worth  his  pay,  and  considering  that  waiters  are 
working  much  harder  than  any  other  average  worker 
— it  is  only  fair  that  his  claim  should  he  regarded 
just  as  well  as  anybody  else's. 

Waiters  are  paid  usually  $25.00  per  month  from 
their  employer  and  anybody  familiar  with  Amer- 
ican coditions,  will  readily  acknowledge  that  no 
man  working  long  hours  can  live  on  this  amount; 
particularly  as  food  in  hotels  for  employees  is  ex- 
ceptionally bad,  and  as  they  have  to  provide  their 
own    lodgings. 

The  guest  will  never  go  fail  if  he  pays  a  quarter 
a  head  in  high-class  places  if  he  does  not  like  to 
figure  out  the  percentage;  considering  that  la 
waiter  in  these  places  only  gets  one  party  a  meal, 
it   is   not   to   much. 


i/uWX^ 


1 


335 


Other   books   published   by 

KUET    HEPPE, 

"Easerne  Oder  Zuchthaus,"  50  cents;  by  mail, 
60  cents;  foreign  countries,  2  shillings  and  6  pences. 
Experiences  of  a  German  waiter  living  in  New  York, 
during   his    military    service    in    the    German   Army. 

"Der  Weg  nacli  Golgatha,"  50  cents;  by  mail, 
60  cents;  foreign  countries,  2  shillings  and  6  pences. 
A  waiter's  career  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave, 
with  all  its  savoury  and  unsavoury  details. — Mailed 
on   prepaid   orders    only. 


MANUSCRIPT      NOTES. 


JA^»  T'  isiii^ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  234  949  8  • 


