^•y   v^V   v^v   v^v 

4/     ^ 
A 


1K;  «£*%  s°-^^*\^v%  ^^^S^\,°^^\ ******  V 
«.°%w&:  °»      /vfc%      ^^M^y*     /s&*- 


V^^>°    \"\S    %^\*     v 


- 


,;- 


?.°^ 


•bv* 


w 


*U* 


* 


♦    4*  ^     • 


-  «V. 


G°\ 


4°* 


^0< 


*  ^ 
^       V 


V     .J 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2011  with  funding  from 
The  Library  of  Congress 


http://www.archive.org/details/famousoldreceipt01smit 


FAMOUS  OLD 
RECEIPTS 

USED  A  HUNDRED  YEARS  AND  MORE 
in  the  Kitchens  of  the  North  and  the  South 
CONTRIBUTED   BY   DESCENDANTS 


COMPILED  BY 


JACQUELINE  HARRISON   SMITH 


SECOND    AUTHOBJZED    EDITION 


1908 
PHILADELPHIA 

The  John  C.  Winston  Co 


Copyritfiit  <-:ntry 
CLASS  CL 

■2-  i~S 


\5 


tf 


<bv 


Copyright,    190S 

By   JaCQ'TJELINE    HaRRISOS    SmITK. 

Copyright    1906 
By  Jacqueline.  Harrison:  Smith. 


CONTRIBUTORS. 


NOTE. 

The  thanks  of  the  Compilers  are  extended  to  those  whose  interest 
and  assistance  have  made  this  work  possible,  and  also  to  many  whose 
material  was  received  too  late  to  be  used. 


CONTRIBUTORS. 

Mrs.  Prescott  Adamson Germantown,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander Germantown,  Pa. 

Mrs.  James  M.  Anders Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Joseph  L.  Arguembau Hackensack;  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Richard  L.  Ashurst Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Mary  F.  Baker Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin West  Orange,  N.  J. 

Baptiste,  head  waiter  of  the  Bellevue-Stratford Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Mrs.  Charles  Heath  Bannard     Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Thomas  J.  Barger Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Louise  Puquet  du  Bellet    Natchez,  Miss. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Bettle    Haverford,  Pa. 

Miss  Mary  D.  Biddle Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham Overbrook,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Francis  T.  Boykin Richmond,  Va, 

Mrs.  Frank  A.  Brastow Haverford,  Pa, 

Mrs.  Joseph  Coleman  Bright Overbrook,  Pa. 

Miss  Caroline  E.  Brooks Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Sarah  Perot  Brooks Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown Rosemont,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Susan  Lynah  Norris  Bruce Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Caroline  Rogers  Buehler Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  John  Burroughs Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Duncan  Lawrence  Buzby Philadelphia.  Pa. 

5 


6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

Mr.   John   Caclwalacler    Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  John  Cadwalader Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Burnside  Cameron Providence,  R.  I. 

Mrs.  John  M.  Cardeza Claymont,  Del. 

Mr.  Coalter  Bryan  Carmichael Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Mrs.  Adelaide  Bragg  Carrick Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Francis  Taylor  Chambers Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Mary  E.  Chandon Chateau  Bellevue,  Geneva. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Clark,  Sr Germantown,  Pa. 

Mr.  Herbert  L.  Clark Germantozvn,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Edwin  T.  Clinton Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Councill Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Charles  Brinton  Coxe Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Kathryn  Coxe Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Edwin  S.  Cramp Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Anne  H.  Cresson Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Dailey "Elkins,"  W.  Va, 

Mrs.  Russell  W.  Davenport. Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Diehl Brewster,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Naudain  Duer Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Caroline  Duer Crosszvicks,  New  Jersey 

Mrs.  Charles  Duggin ,.  . New  York  City 

Mrs.  John  H.  Easby .Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Lieutenant  Houston  Eldredge Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Ellerbe Birmingham,  Ala, 

Mrs.  Theodore  Newel  Ely .  .Bryn  Mawr,  Pa, 

Mrs.  Mary  Mercur  Eshleman Lancaster,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Ewing , Bryn  Maur,  Pa.  ■ 

Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Hannah  Fox Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  L.  Webster  Fox Hayerford,  Pa. 


CONTRIBUTORS 


7 


Miss  Jane  Gamble Roanoke,  Va. 

Mrs.  Robert  Gamble Havcrford,  Pa. 

Mr.  Paul  Garrett Norfolk,  Va. 

Mrs.  Arnold  Gerstell "Elkins,"  IV.  Va. 

Miss  Maria  Gilpin Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Richard  Gilpin Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Gottschalk Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Greenwood Middletown,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Morris  Hacker Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Matilda  Halsey Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Anne  Swift  Hammond Providence,  R.  I. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cooper  Harrison Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison Brandon,  Va. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Miss  Elizabeth  N.  Hill Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Lydia  S.  Hinchman Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Andrew  Hisler,  Chef  of  the  Bellevue-Stratford Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Walter  Horstmann Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  William  Govane  Howard Govanstown,  Va. 

Mr.  Barclay  Johnson Strafford,  Pa. 

Miss  Pauline  Johnson Strafford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Clara  Pollard  Lee Montgomery,  Ala, 

Mrs.  Louis  R.  Lemoine Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Lucretia  C.  Lennig Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Miss  Elizabeth  C.  Lewis Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Mrs.  L.  L.  Lewis Richmond,  Va. 

Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Meta  Lisle Philadelphia,  Pa. 


o 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd Haverford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Looney Memphis,  Tenn. 

Mrs.  Lilly  Latrobe  Loring Washington,  D.  C. 

Mrs.  Roberts  Lowrie Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Miss  Mary  Mcllvaine. Newark,  N.  J. 

Miss  Rebecca  Mcllvaine Newark,  AT.  J, 

Mrs.  Augustine  Mason Hagerstozvn,  Md. 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury Washington,  D.  C. 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury Richmond,  Va. 

Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks Orange,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick ' Germantown,  Pa. 

Mrs.  D.  Leeds  Miller Haverford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller New  York  City 

Miss  A.  Jacqueline  Minor New  York  City 

Mrs.  Charlotte  Cranwell  Minor New  London,  Conn. 

Miss  Marie  L.  Minor New  York  City 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell New  Orleans,  La. 

Mrs.  Fred'k  Wister  Morris Villa  Nova,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Junius  Mosby Richmond,  Va. 

Mr.  J.  B.  Mosby Richmond,  Va, 

Mrs.  John  Murdoch Baltimore,  Md. 

Miss  A.  Myers Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Neff Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  James  M.  Noyes Montclair,  N.  J. 

Miss  Ellie  Ogden Morristown,  N.  J. 

Commander  Hugo  Osterhaus U.  S.  Navy 

Mrs.  John  H.  Parsons Upper  Montclair,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson Chestnut  Hill,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson Ashevillc,  N.  C. 


CONTRIBUTORS 


9 


Miss  Isabelle  Pegram Providence,  R.  I. 

Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson Asbury  Park,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  George  Philler Haverford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  William  R.  Philler Haverford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  John  Poe Baltimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard Austin,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Norman  V.  Randolph Richmond,  Va. 

Mr.  Francis  Rawle Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mr.  Mark  L.  Requa Oakland,  Cal. 

Miss  Alice  W.  Richardson Louisville,  Ky. 

Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson Richmond,  Va. 

Mrs.  Theodore  Roosevelt Washington,  D.  C. 

Mrs.  Charles  Pntnam  Searle Boston :  Mass. 

Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Seiss Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Mary  E.  Shandon Connecticut 

Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Sims Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Miss  Caroline  Sinkler Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Alice  C.  Slaughter Louisville,  Ky. 

Mr.  Louis  F.  Sloan Charleston,  S.  C. 

Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Mrs.  H.  Cavalier  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  J.  Frailey  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Katherine  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Lelia  Andrews  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Jacqueline  Harrison  Smith Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Stevens Charleston,  S.  C. 

Mrs.  Cornelius  Stevenson Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Mr.  Morris  R.  Stroud Philadelphia,  Pa. 


io  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

Mrs.  Lewis  N.  Webb Washington,  D.  C. 

Miss  Elizabeth  White :  .St.  Paul,  Minn, 

Miss  Katharine  Willcox West  port.  Conn, 

Mrs.  Ezra  Williams » West  Orange,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  James  D.  Winsor Haverford,  Pa. 

Mrs.  William  D.  Winsor Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Miss  Winifred  Wooster. Forest  Hill,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Robert  C.  Wright Haverford,  Pa, 


m 


Deotcateo  to 

The  Old   Memories  which  this  Book  will  recall   of  the  Hospitable 
Homes  of  the  North  and  the  South. 


INTRODUCTION. 


INTRODUCTION. 

The  title  of  this  book  by  itself  conveys  so  much  that  any  intro- 
duction to  the  many  good  things  told  in  its  pages  seems  superfluous. 
It  certainly  should  not  require  any  urging  to  induce  all  who  can  to 
read,  mark,  learn  and  inwardly  digest  them. 

"  One  hundred  years  ago  and  more  "  brings  before  us  a  delightful 
period  in  our  country's  history,  and  recalls  the  generous,  cordial  feel- 
ings which  prevailed.among  our  ancestors  —  that  "  open-handed  spirit, 
frank  and  blythe,  of  ancient  hospitality,"  which  made  the  homes  of  the 
New  World  all  that  a  stranger  could  desire. 

We  may  reconcile  ourselves  to  the  passing  of  "  the  fugaceous 
hospitalities  of  the  snuffbox  "  as  needing  the  powdered  wig  and  three- 
cornered  hat  to  justify  them.  What  a  genuine  ring  there  is  in  the 
words  of  Washington,  referring  to  Mount  Vernon,  when  he  said : 
"  Let  the  hospitality  of  the  house  with  respect  to  the  poor  be  kept  up; 
let  no  one  go  hungry  away."  And  the  cordiality  of  Jefferson  while 
living  in  Philadelphia  is  delightfully  expressed  in  a  letter  to  Richard 
Peters :  "  Call  on  me  whenever  you  come  to  town,  and  if  it  should 
be  about  the  hour  of  three,  I  shall  rejoice  the  more.  You  will  find  a 
bad  dinner,  a  good  glass  of  wine,  and  a  host  thankful  for  your  favour 
and  desirous  of  encouraging  repetitions  of  it,  without  number,  form, 
or  ceremony." 

It  was  a  time  when  there  was  truly  that  "  hospitality  sitting  with 
gladness,"  which  all  the  luxuries  of  the  present  day  cannot  supply. 

Athen?eus,  as  early  as  the  Third  century,  held  that  "  Every  inves- 
tigation which  is  guided  by  principles  of  nature  fixes  its  ultimate  aim 
entirely  on  gratifying  the  stomach."  And  Dr.  Johnson,  in  simpler 
phrase,  confirms  Athenaeus  when  he  says :     "  I  look  upon  it  that  he 

15 


i6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

who  does  not  mind  his  belly  will  hardly  mind  anything  else."  This 
volume  would  appeal  to  both  philosophers. 

The  sources  of  the  recipes  add  greatly  to  their  value  and  interest. 
Though  described  as  coming  from  "  the  kitchen,"  they  were  the  work 
of  as  gentle  dames  as  ever  graced  a  court. 

It  is  a  sad  error  to  suppose  that  the  homely  accomplishments  of 
housewives,  deemed  essential  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  and  begin- 
ning of  the  nineteenth  centuries  in  this  country,  are  no  longer  impor- 
tant. A  hundred  years  ago  so  much  could  be  left  to  faithful  servants 
that  even  less  was  required  of  the  heads  of  households  than  now. 
There  are,  alas !  no  more  of  those  loyal,  devoted,  if  humble,  members 
of  the  family  circle  who,  in  wealth  and  health  or  in  trouble,  never 
failed  to  supply  the  comforts  and  maintain  the'  dignity  of  the  old 
homes.  To-day  even  in  England  or  Scotland  a  Caleb  Balderston 
would  be  hard  to  find,  and  the  colored  "  Aunties  "  have  disappeared 
under  the  changed  conditions  at  the  South. 

The  character  of  the  hospitality  at  the  North  differed  from  that 
at  the  South,  especially  in  the  rural  sections.  In  the  North  the  well- 
kept  inns  to  be  found  on  many  of  the  principal  roadways  supplied 
what  the  roof  of  the  planter  generously  offered  to  the  traveler  in  the 
Southern  States.  "  The  spare  room  "  provided  in  a  Northern  home 
had  little  meaning  to  the  Southerner,  whose  every  room  was  always  a 
guest  chamber,  if  necessary,  for  the  welcome  of  one  coming  to  his 
door.  The  tables  of  the  North  could,  however,  vie  with  those  of  the 
South,  and,  within  the  recollection  of  many  now  living*,  Christmas 
dinners  rivaled  in  their  generous  profusion  such  a  feast  as  Pepys 
lovingly  records  as  "most  neatly  dressed  by  our  own  only  mayde." 
"  We  had  a  fricassee  of  rabbits  and  chickens,  a  leg  of  mutton  boiled, 
three  carps  in  a  dish,  a  great  dish  of  a  side  of  lamb,  a  dish  of  roasted 
pigeons,  a  dish  of  four  lobsters,  three  tarts,  a  lamprey  pie, —  a  most 
rare  pie, —  a  dish  of  anchovies,  good  wine  of  several  sorts,  and  all 
things  mighty  noble  to  my  heart's  content." 

Prior  to  the  year  1800,  perhaps,  the  best  social  conditions  in  the 
North  were  to  be  found  in  Philadelphia.     Society,  naturally,  became 


INTRODUCTION  17 

more  cosmopolitan  there,  as  it  was  the  seat  of  government ;  and  the 
foreign  ministers  preferred  Philadelphia,  even  after  the  removal  of 
the  capital  to  Washington.  That  city,  which  the  Abbe  Correa  wittily 
described  as  "  the  city  of  magnificent  distances,"  presented  few  attrac- 
tions in  its  early  days.  Distinguished  visitors  from  abroad,  attracted 
by  the  novelty  of  the  new  country,  and  later  many  who  were  driven 
away  by  the  French  Revolution,  gave  additional  variety  and  attractive- 
ness to  Philadelphia  society.  Many  of  the  houses  built  with  a  view 
to  entertaining  were  spacious  and  luxurious.  Balls  and  dinners  were 
frequent.  The  very  women  whose  hands  recorded  the  dainty  dishes 
herein  described,  by  their  brilliancy  and  beauty  established  the  repu- 
tation for  charm  which  American  women  have  sustained  ever  since. 

This  is  not  the  place  to  describe  in  detail  these  centres  of  social 
interest,  though  a  few  may  be  mentioned. 

xA.t  the  house  of  Tench  Francis  and  his  wife,  who  was  Anne 
Willing,  both  before  and  after  the  Revolution  could  be  met  the  most 
cultivated  and  interesting  people.  Distinguished  foreigners  and  vis- 
itors from  all  parts  of  the  country  were  included  in  their  receptions, 
and  it  became  a  delightful  Salon. 

The  large  mansion  and  gardens  of  William  Bingham,  Senator  of 
the  United  States,  whose  wife  was  also  a  Miss  Willing,  continued, 
while  they  lived,  to  be  the  scene  of  many  entertainments.  Frequent 
mention  of  them  is  made  in  the  published  memoirs  of  persons  who 
visited  America  at  that  time. 

Among  many  others,  the  homes  of  Chief  Justice  Chew,  Robert 
Morris,  Samuel  Powell  —  whose  wife  has  contributed  to  the  receipts 
given  in  this  volume  —  Governor  Hamilton,  whose  beautiful  house  and 
park,  "  The  Woodlands,"  still  remains,  though  converted  into  a  ceme- 
tery; George  Harrison,  General  John  Cadwalader,  and  later  his  son. 
General  Thomas  Cadwalader,  Richard  Peters  and  Alexander  Wilcocks 
may  be  named.  These  were  all  centres  of  social  influence.  In  addi- 
tion to  private  influence,  society  at  the  period  referred  to  was  largely 
controlled  by  certain  associations,  which  in  some  instances  continue  to 
the  present  day.     "  The  State  in  Schuylkill,"  known  generally  as  "  The 


]8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

Fish  House,"  was  formed  in  1732,  and  is  still  conducted  under  the 
same  constitution  and  rules.  It  is  believed  to  be  the  earliest  incor- 
porated body  of  its  kind  existing  anywhere.  Its  government  is  formed 
upon  that  of  a  State,  with  a  governor  and  other  officers.  The  pew 
members  are  taken  as  apprentices  and  are  trained  to  be  expert  cooks. 

An  incident  occurred  to  Tench  Francis,  already  mentioned,  when 
he  was  in  England,  that  showed  the  value  of  his  Fish  House  training. 
Mr.  Francis  had  been  detained  in  England  for  two  years  waiting  to 
have  a  case  vitally  affecting  his  interests  heard  by  the  Lord  Chancellor. 
When  almost  in  despair  a  lady  friend  said  that  Lord  Camden  was  a 
bon  vivant,  and  if  Mr.  Francis  would  prepare  the  turtle  she  would 
invite  the  Lord  Chancellor  and  himself  to  dine.  At  dinner  she  would 
announce  to  whose  good  offices  his  lordship  owed  his  favorite  dish, 
and  then  ask  the  favor  in  return.  The  dinner  was  given,  the  turtle 
was  prepared.  The  Lord  Chancellor  was  charmed  both  by  his  hostess 
and  the  turtle,  ordered  the  hearing  for  the  following  Thursday,  and 
forthwith  decided  the  case  in  Mr.  Francis's  favor. 

Fish  House  punch  might  also  have  been  provided,  for  that  bever- 
age was  celebrated  then  and  is  still  a  delightful  compound  for  those 
who  can  stand  it.     But  the  Dabney  mint  julep  is  far  better. 

The  Wistar  party,  composed  of  members  of  The  American  Philo- 
sophical Society,  is  another  social  function  of  a  century's  existence 
which  still  brings  together,  every  fortnight,  at  the  houses  of  its  mem- 
bers, the  scientific,  literary  and  professional  world.  To  these  may  be 
added  "  The  Assemblies,"  which  have  continued  since  1740.  It  is  not 
probable  that  any  similar  social  organization  has  endured  so  long, 
except  the  St.  Cecilia,  of  Charleston,  South  Carolina,  a  similar  organi- 
zation, of  which  the  Charleston  Gazette  of  November  5,  1737,  records 
the  first  meeting  on  Queen  street,  Thursday,  the  12th,  1737.  These 
balls  are  still  of  great  interest,  and  with  the  increase  in  the  social  world 
the  anxiety  to  secure  invitations  is  extreme.  It  might  serve  a  good 
purpose  to  give  to  the  public  a  fuller  insight  into  what  really  consti- 
tuted society  in  the  days  when  our  country  was  young.  While  there 
was  a  simplicity  in  one  sense,  there  was  true  dignity,  much  cultivation. 


INTRODUCTION 


19 


and  a  substantial  character  totally  lacking  to-day.  It  is  deplorable  if 
the  authoress  of  the  introduction  to  Fads  and  Fancies  is  right  when 
she  declares  that  "  We  cannot  gainsay  the  fact  that  wealth  and  the 
power  it  brings  rule  supreme  in  our  land,  .  .  .  and  to  this  decree 
of  the  people  American  society  has  bowed  down  obediently.*' 

Even  in  New  York,  which  is  assumed  by  the  writer  of  the  quoted 
words  to  be  the  controlling  centre  of  social  influence  to-day,  it  is  to  be 
hoped  there  still  exists  a  higher  plane  of  thought  which  does  not  rest 
upon  "  the  golden  basis."  Elsewhere,  and  certainly  in  the  South, 
there  is  still  a  controlling  class  who  rise  above  the  influence  of  mere 
wealth. 

If  for  nothing  else  this  publication  is  valuable  as  showing  the 
homely  virtues  of  those  who  have  thrown  more  lustre  upon  our  coun- 
try than  can  be  effaced  by  the  highest  priced  biographies  in  Fads  and 
Fancies. 

John  Cadwalader. 


AN  OLD-FASHIONED   CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

Christmas,  with  its  festivities  and  its  preparations,  was  a  busy 
time  to  the  housekeeper  of  fifty  years  ago,  "  befo'  de  war,"  in  Vir- 
ginia. It  meant  thought  and  labor  for  weeks  beforehand ;  especially 
was  this  true  of  the  homes  in  the  country,  where  lavish  entertainment 
was  the  rule.  The  home  I  have  in  mind  is  a  rambling,  old-fashioned 
Virginia  house,  thirty  miles  from  Fredericksburg,  and  in  that  part  of 
Virginia  known  as  the  Northern  neck,  which  is  said  to  have  produced 
more  great  men  than  any  other  place  of  the  same  size  in  this  country. 
Weeks  before  Christmas  supplies  were  ordered  from  either  Baltimore 
or  Richmond.  Then  came  the  busy  time.  The  Southern  woman  in 
those  days,  while  the  "  Lady  Bountiful  "  of  her  domain,  and  sur- 
rounded by  servants  ready  to  do  her  bidding,  had  her  responsibilities 
and  cares.  She  was  up  with  the  lark,  saw  her  household  in  order ; 
she  ministered  to  the  sick  and  comforted  the  afflicted  ;  bond  and  free 
alike  had  her  care.  There  was  as  much  excitement  and  anticipation 
among  the  negroes  at  Christmas  as  among  the  whites,  from  the  small- 
est little  darkey  to  Uncle  Peter,  the  oldest  negro  on  the  plantation. 
Two  weeks  before  Christmas  began  the  busy  time,  seeding  raisins, 
cutting  citron,  washing  and  drying  currants,  for  these  were  the  days 
before  all  this  could  be  bought.  Every  housekeeper  had  her  own 
especial  receipts  handed  down  from  mother  to  daughter.  In  the  big 
kitchen  at  night,  before  a  blazing  log  fire,  would  sit  the  cook,  sur- 
rounded by  several  of  the  house  servants  preparing  the  fruit  for  cakes, 
mincemeat  and  plum  pudding.  Apple  toddy  was  made  by  an  old 
family  receipt  usually  a  month  beforehand,  as  it  improved,  like  many 
other  things,  with  age.  The  menu  for  a  Christmas  dinner  at  this  old 
house  was  a  soup,  either  calf's  head  or  turtle;  then  a  turkey  at  one  end 
and  a  young  pig  or  a  haunch  of  venison  at  the  other,  with  a  great 

21 


22  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

variety  of  vegetables.  Wines  of  different  kinds  were  served  through- 
out the  dinner,  and  of  a  rare  vintage  were  they,  for  every  man  of 
means  had  his  wine  cellar  and  the  Virginia  gentleman  of  those  days 
was  a  connoisseur.  Then  came  the  dessert,  to  childhood's  eyes  most 
important;  a  bowl  of  calvesfoot  jelly,  sparkling  in  the  cut  glass  bowl, 
and  the  oft  repeated  comparison  of  Santa  Claus  in  the  old  nursery 
jingle,  "  that  he  had  a  round  face  and  a  little  round  belly,  which  shook 
when  he  laughed  like  a  bowl  full  of  jelly,"  was  a  good  one  to  juvenile 
minds.  The  plum  pudding  was  always  brought  in,  in  a  blaze  of  glory, 
with  a  sprig  of  holly  in  the  top,  while  the  blue  flame  danced  around  it. 
A  big  fruit  cake,  mince  pies  and  blanc-mange  moulded  in  the  shape  of 
eggs  and  lying  in  a  nest  of  thinly  shaved  lemon  peel,  were  some  of  the 
Christmas  cheer  on  that  dinner  table.  The  china  was  the  old  blue 
Canton,  while  the  finest  damask,  cut  glass  and  old  silver  added  its 
aristocratic  touch  to  the  picture.  Every  servant  had  his  share  of 
the  good  things,  and  that  night  the  sound  of  the  fiddle  and  the  shuffle 
of  many  feet  gave  evidence  of  a  dance  in  the  kitchen  for  the  negroes. 
Years  have  passed.  The  master  and  mistress  of  this  happy  home 
have  been  sleeping  many  years  in  the  old  graveyard  on  the  plantation. 
The  descendants  are  scattered  far  and  wide.  The  old  blue  china 
hangs  on  the  walls  of  the  home  of  one  of  them  in  Germantown,  with 
some  of  the  silver  that  graced  that  last  Christmas  dinner.  Two  old 
receipt  books,  yellow  with  age  and  worn  with  much  handling,  are  still 
preserved,  and  here  are  some  of  the  receipts  from  such  famous  Vir- 
ginia housekeepers  as  Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  Mrs.  O.  Taylor,  Mrs.  Ran- 
dolph and  many  others. 

(Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey.)     Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey. 


HOW  TO  COOK  A   HUSBAND. 

GODERICH,    LAKE   HURON,    CANADA. 

In  a  lecture  room,  before  a  cooking  school, 
For  cooking  a  husband  was  given  this  rule : 
First,  in  selecting,  to  market  don't  go; 
The  best  you'll  not  find  there,  most  surely  no. 
For  although  there  are  many,  yes,  galore, 
The  prime  will  always  be  brought  to  your  door. 
Don't  think  for  a  moment,  to  bake  or  broil, 
Much  better  tie  in  the  kettle  to  boil. 
Use  a  silken  cord  called  comfort  — 'twon't  break, 
But  one  called  duty  is  apt  to  be  weak. 
To  make  him  secure  it  is  well,  no  doubt, 
Yes !  for  aught  we  know;  he'd  be  falling  out. 
And  then,  too  surely  if  your  back  were  turned, 
He'd  become,  alas !  both  crusty  and  burned. 
In  cooking  a  husband  you'll  plainly  see, 
Like  lobsters  and  crabs,  alive  they  must  be. 
Should  he  sputter  and  fuss,  help  there  is  none; 
Some  husbands  do  it  until  they  are  done. 
Some  sugar  add,  in  the  form  of  kisses ; 
You'll  find  to  absorb,  he  rarely  misses. 
Vinegar  and  pepper,  use  none  at  all ; 
But  of  spice  you  may  add  a  sprinkling  small. 
Stir  some,  lest  to  the  kettle  he  adhere. 
Thus  making  him  useless,  I  greatly  fear. 
Please  not  in  his  side  some  instrument  stick, 
For  when  he  is  done  you  will  know  it  quick. 
With  proper  treatment  and  excellent  care 
You'll  find  him,  indeed,  delicious  and  rare. 

23 


THE  ARISTOCRACY  OF    THE  KITCHEN. 

Next  in  importance  to  the  mammy  in  the  Southern  home  was 
the  cook,  not  only  in  her  own  estimation,  but  to  those  with  whom  she 
came  in  contact.  She  was  queen  in  her  domain  —  the  kitchen.  A 
representative  of  a  prominent  South  Carolina  family  tells  the  follow- 
ing story :  When  a  little  girl  of  ten,  she  heard  her  mother  say  one 
day  that  she  was  descended  from  the  Indian  Princess,  Pocahontas. 
This  made  a  great  impression  on  her  childish  mind.  Going  one  day 
into  the  kitchen,  she  was  summarily  ordered  out  by  the  cook.  Rising 
to  the  dignity  of  her  ten  years,  and  the  blood  of  this  princess,  which 
she  felt  coursing  through  her  veins,  she  said :  "  Don't  you  dare  order 
me  out.  I  am  descended  from  a  Princess."  With  great  dignity  the 
old  cook,  assuming  a  most  queenly  air,  said :  "  I  am  descended  from 
a  princess,  too."  With  rare,  quick  wit  this  young  lady  said :  "  Who 
is  your  princess?  "  "  Pocahontas,"  was  the  reply.  "  And,"  said  this 
charming  woman,  "  I  never  told  the  name  of  my  princess,  and  retired 
from  the  royal  dominion." 

Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey. 


24 


MENUS. 


LUNCHEON. 

Hearts  of  artichokes  filled  with  Russian  caviar,  then  a  layer  of 
hard-boiled  egg,  and  in  the  centre  a  half  olive,  stuffed  with  sweet 
pepper.     Served  on  small  plate,  individually. 

Turtle  Soup. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Madison  Biscuit. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  C.   Wright,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Deviled  Clams. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Fried  Sweet  Peppers. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

Chicken  Saute  Bellevue. 
Contributed  by  Andrew  Hisler,  Chef  of  Bellevue,  Stratford. 

Stuffed  Ripe  Tomatoes,  Southern  Style. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Adelaide  Bragg  Carrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Corn  Cake. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Council!,  Bryn  Matwr,  Pa. 

Crab  Salad. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Lucretia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cream  Cheese  Balls,  Red  and  White  Bar  le  Due  Toasted  Crackers. 

German  or  Vanilla  Cream. 
Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadzvalader,  Philadelphia,   Pa. 


27 


LUNCHEON. 

Grape   fruit,   bananas,  oranges,  mixed  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Served  in  tall  champagne  glasses,  with  powdered  ice  covering  the  top. 

Ochra  Soup. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Muffins. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Crab  Ravigote. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Joseph  JSteff,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Sweet  Bread  with  Tomatoes. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Annie  Swift  Hammond,  Providence,  R.  I. 

A  Real  Indian  Pilau. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Poring,  Washington,  D.   C. 

Rice  and  Pepper,  Creole  Fashion. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Lucrctia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Asparagus  Salad. 
Toasted  Crackers,  spread  with  Butter,  and  Covered  with  Grated  Edam 

Cheese. 

Mousse. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Coffee. 

Contributed  by  Lieut.  Houston  Eldredge. 


28 


LUNCHEON. 

Deep  shell  oysters,  on  half  shell,  served  individually,  with  a  l/± 
of  lemon  in  centre  of  plate.     Pass  grated  horseradish. 

Mushroom  Soup. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

Famous  Virginia  Yeast  Rolls. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Eugene  S.  Herndon,  German-town,  Pa. 

Lobster  and  Crab  Farcee. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.   Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Quenelles  with  Spinach. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Joseph  Coleman  Bright,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Served  with  Rice  Croquettes. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad. 
Camombert  Cheese  —  warmed  until  creamy  —  Toasted  Crackers. 

Frozen  Coffee. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Naudain  Duer,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


29 


DINNER. 

Caviar  on  Toast. 

Prepare  rounds  of  toast  of  white  bread.     Place  over  the  fire  for 

a  minute  or  two,  two  large  tablespoons  of  cavier,  and  one  tablespoonful 

of  cream,  stirring  all  the  while.     Pour  this  mixture  over  the  toast. 

Soup.     Olives.     Celery  Hearts. 

Rich  Brown  Soup. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Fish. 

Shad  Roe  Croquettes. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon. 

Entree.     Salted  Nuts. 

Frogs'  Legs  and  New  Peas. 

Fowl. 

Chicken  Saute  Bellevue. 

Contributed  by  Andrezv  Hisler,  Chef  of  Bellevue-Stratford. 

New  Peas. 
Tomatoes  Halved  and  Fried,  with  Cream  Gravy. 

Ice. 

Claret  Ice. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,   Va. 

Game. 
Pheasant.     Hot  House  Grapes  Mixed  with  Grape  Fruit  and  French 

Dressing. 

Dessert. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Clara  Lee  Pollard,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

Sweets  and  Coffee  and  Cheese  —  Roquefort. 

New  Orleans  Brulo. 

Contributed  by  Lieut.  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 


30 


DINNER. 

Little  Neck  Clams  on  Half  Shell.     Tomato  Catsup. 

Soup. 
Pepper  Pot.     Pulled  Bread. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Anne  H.  Crcsson,  Germantown,  Pa. 

Fish. 

Fish    Pie.     Olives.     Celery      (Hearts). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  fames  Crosby  Brown,  Rosenwnt,  Pa. 

Entree.     Salted  Nuts. 

Vol-au-vent  of  Sweetbread.     Fresh  Mushrooms,  and  Macaroni. 

Roast  Ducks.     Apple  Sauce. 

Contributed   by  Mrs.   Gitlielma  Harrison,  Brandon,    Va. 

Spinach,   Creamed.     Baked   Cauliflower. 

Ice. 

Sherbert. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Seth  Barton  French. 

Game  and  Salad. 
Partridges.     Apple  and  Celery  Salad.     Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Dessert. 

"  Aunt   Parsons  "    Ice   Cream. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Pauline  Johnson,  Strafford,  Pa. 

Candy.     Coffee  and  Cheese  —  Cream  Cheese. 

New  Orleans  Brulo. 

Contributed  by  Lieut.  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 


31 


DINNER. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell.     One-fourth  Slice  Lemon.     Horseradish. 

Soup. 

Turtle  Soup.     Rasp  Rolls. 

Contributed   by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Fish.     Olives.     Celery  Hearts. 

Sabot  a  la  Creme  au  Gratin. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Poe,  Baltimore. 

Entree.     Salted  Nuts. 

Sweet  Breads  with  Tomatoes. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Annie  Swift  Hammond,  Providence,  R.  I. 

Creole  Receipt  for  Grillades. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Gottschalk,  Pennsylvania. 

Italian  Macaroni  with  Cheese.     Potato  Croquettes. 

Ice. 

Lalla  Rookh  Punch. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,   Va, 

Game  and  Salad. 
Quail.     The  Heart  of  Lettuce,  and  French  Dressing. 

Dessert. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Candy  and  Coffee  and  Cheese.    .  Camombert. 

New  Orleans  Brulo. 

Contributed  by  Lieut.  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 


3* 


BREADS, 


BREADS. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Barclay  Johnson,  Stafford,  Pa. 

"  Good  bread,  and  good  drink,  a  good  fire  in  the  hall, 
Bravver,  pudding  and  sauce,  and  good  mustard  with  all, 
Beef,  mutton  and  pork,  shred  pies  of  the  best, 
Pig,  veal,  goose  and  capon,  and  turkey  well  drest. 
Cheese,  apples  and  nuts,  jolly  carols  to  hear, 
Ah  these,  in  the  country,  are  counted  good  cheer !  " 

GOOD  BREAD  UNDER  ANY  CIRCUMSTANCES. 
If  bread  is  the  staff  of  life,"  the  Southern  housekeeper  has  many 
and  a  great  variety.  They  are  troublesome  in  a  way,  as  they  require 
while  rising  to  be  moved  from  one  warm  place  to  another  in  winter, 
or  cold  place  in  summer.  The  old  negro  cooks  would  often  declare : 
"  They  sutinly  did  have  to  nuss  dat  bread  last  night,'  meaning  that 
the  temperature  varied  and  they  got  up  to  put  the  bread  in  a  cooler 
or  warmer  place.  Some  years  ago  a  party  of  young  men  went  on  a 
hunting  trip,  taking  with  them  an  old  negro  cook  John.  They  were 
Southern  men,  who  considered  hot  bread  for  breakfast  a  necessity. 
Morning  after  morning  they  would  sit  down  to  breakfast  to  heavy 
bread,  so  they  told  John  he  must  do  better.  John  was  much  im- 
pressed, so  the  next  morning,  although  the  night  had  been  unusually 
cold,  the  rolls  were  light.  "  Why,  John,"  they  exclaimed,  "  these 
rolls  are  fine."  "  Yes,  Sar,"  said  John,  "  I  made  up  my  mind  1 
want  gwine  to  have  no  more  trouble,  so  I  done  tuk  dat  bracle  to  bade 
wid  me  and  done  kiver  it  up  jest  like  I  done  myself." 

Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey. 


r35 


BREADS. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  Richard  L.  Ashurst,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  sour  cream,  2.]/2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  i  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Knead  it  into  a  dough,  roll  out  thin,  cut  in  irregular  pieces, 
and  bake  in  a  modern  oven. 

YORKSHIRE  BREAD. 
Mrs.  Wm.  Govane  Howard,  "  Drumquhasle,"  Maryland. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  C.  Wright,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Make  a  "  rising  "  in  the  morning  (if  required  for  tea)  with  yeast, 
using  i  qt.  of  milk,  2  eggs,  }4  lb.  of  butter  —  the  milk  to  be 
warmed  enough  to  melt  the  butter,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  bread.  Use  a  little  salt,  and  knead  as  ordinary  bread.  Break 
off  pieces  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate  and  set  again.  Then  bake.  To 
be  buttered  in  the  kitchen. 

MADISON  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  John   Murdoch,   Baltimore,   Md. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert.  C.  Wright,  Haverford,  Pa. 

To  each  qt.  of  flour,  put  y2  pt.  of  yeast,  1  egg  well  beaten. 
1  large  potato,  1  tablespoon ful  of  white  sugar,  and  1  of  lard.  Put 
the  yeast,  egg  and  sugar  together.  Mash  the  potato  and  mix  in  with 
milk  to  moisten,  then  well  into  the  flour  as  for  rolls.  They  will  rise 
in  from  four  to  six  hours  in  warm  weather.  When  light,  roll  thin, 
handling  the  dough  as  little  as  possible.  Cut  and  put  them  into  a 
pan  to  rise  until  it  is  time  to  bake.  They  will  bake  in  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Two  quarts  of  flour  will  make  about  50  biscuits.  To  be 
eaten  as  soon  as  baked. 

37 


38  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

WAFFLES  (PERFECT).  ' 

Miss  Logan,  Kentucky. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wm.  D.  Winsor,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pt.  sour  cream,  2  pts.  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  3 
tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  a  little  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  put 
flour  and  sour  cream  in  the  yellows,  thin  the  batter  very  thin  with 
sweet  milk.  Add  lard,  then  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  and  lastly 
the  whites.     Bake  quickly  in  very  hot  irons. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.  Henry  Winsor,  Boston,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wm.  D.  Winsor,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pt.  graham  flour,  1  pt.  Indian  meal,  1  pt.  wheat  flour,  y2 
cup  molasses.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  salt,  and  then  pour  in  the 
molasses,  stir  in  a  quart  of  sour  milk  or  butter  milk  a  tablespoon  of 
soda  until  it  froths.  Pour  it  gradually  over  the  flour  and  beat  till 
quite  light.  Butter  the  tin  (a  2  or  3  lb.  lard  kettle  will  answer),  pour 
in  the  mixture,  cover  the  tin  perfectly  tight  and  boil  it  in  a  pot  of 
water  3  hours  (leave  on  range  all  night).  In  the  morning  just  before 
breakfast  turn  it  carefully  out  and  put  it  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown  crust. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  y  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour,  2  eggs,  y2  gill  of  yeast  or  ^  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  milk  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  cut  up  butter  and  melt  in  warm  milk. 
When  the  milk  is  lukewarm  stir  it  into  the  flour,  with  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  then  add  yeast.  Butter  your  mould  carefully  in  which 
place  your  mixture,  and  set  in  winter  near  fire  to  rise.  When  per- 
fectly light  and  risen  to  top  of  Turk's  head,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


BREADS  39 

THIN  BISCUIT. 

To  i  lb.  flour,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  tea  cup  cream  a  little  sour, 
i  salt  spoon  of  salt,  i  teaspoon  soda.  Make  dough  as  soft  as  possible, 
roll  very  thin,  cut  out  and  bake  quickly  in  hot  oven  about  5  minutes. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  IV.  Garbcr,  "  Ingleside"  Richmond,  Va. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  meal,  1  salt  spoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  milk. 
Make  in  a  thin  batter,  adding  more  milk  if  necessary,  and  bake  on 
hot  griddle.     A  table  spoon  of  melted  butter  is  an  improvement. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  IV.  Garbcr,  "  Ingleside,"  Richmond,  Va. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  flour,  il/2  cups  of  buttermilk,  beat  your  eggs 
very  light,  and  then  add  1  cup  of  milk,  then  your  flour,  then  ]/2  cup 
of  buttermilk  with  ]/$  teaspoon  of  soda.     Bake  on  hot  greased  griddle. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs.  Daniel  Harrison,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1861. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Make  a  batter  of  1  qt.  of  flour  and  1  qt.  of  milk,  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  wine  glass  of  yeast.  Add  a  little  salt  and  let  it  rise, 
cut  into  the  flour  a  large  spoonful  of  butter.     Bake  in  muffin  rings. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  IV.  Garbcr,  "  Ingleside,"  Richmond,  Va. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  meal,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  i1/* 
cups  of  buttermilk.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  add  to  them  1  cup 
buttermilk,  then  meal  and  butter,  then  ]/2  tea  cup  of  buttermilk,  stir- 
ring in  l/2  teaspoon  soda  and  1  salt  spoon  salt.  Grease  your  tins  and 
bake  quickly. 


4o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MUFFINS. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  W .  Garber,  "  Ingleside,"  Richmond,  Va. 

One  half  pt.  flour,  x/2  cup  of  yeast  and  let  rise  2  hours.  Then 
add  3  eggs,  1  pt.  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk.  Beat 
eggs  very  light,  then  add  milk  and  flour  to  your  sponge  and  1  salt 
spoon  of  salt.  Set  this  away  to  rise  5  hours.  Then  put  in  muffin 
cups  to  rise  to  top.  When  risen  bake  in  quick  oven.  In  place  of  'x/2 
cup  of  yeast,  'x/2  yeast  cake  can  be  substituted. 

THIN  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  pt.  of  flour  sifted.  Into  this  rub  1  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  add  2  eggs,  and  enough  cream  to  make  a  dough  sufficient  to 
roll.  Roll  as  thin  as  your  nail,  prick  with  a  fork,  cut  out  with  a  glass, 
dust  with  flour  and  place  in  pan  in  a  hot  oven  until  light  brown. 

BREAD  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Daniel  Harrison,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1861. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  fea  cups  of  risen  dough,  y2  tea  cup  of  sugar,  'x/2  tea  cup  of 
butter,  2  eggs,  raisins  to  taste.  Add  a  mite  of  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  in  the  dough,  and  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  milk,  and  add 
lastly. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  T.  B.  Sims,  Bryn  Mazur,  Pa. 

Three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  3  of  butter  creamed  together,  3 
eggs  well  beaten  and  added  to  butter  and  sugar.  One  pt.  of  milk,  y2 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  of  tepid  water,  or  of  yeast  2 
tablespoonsful,  about  1  qt.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  well, 
rise  over  night  or  all  day.     Bake  in  old-fashioned  Turk's  head. 


BREADS  4I 

CORN  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Balding,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1858. 

One  qt.  of  sour  milk,  6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  saleratus,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Make  it  as  thick  as  sponge  cake 
with  Indian  meal  from  Virginia,  and  bake  y2  hour. 

MUSH  CAKES. 

Miss  Mollie  Ward,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1855. 

Take  1  qt.  of  cold  mush,  y2  pt.  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  butter  or 
lard.  Make  into  little  cakes  with  your  hand,  flour,  and  bake  them 
on  a  griddle  as  slab-cake,  or  in  the  oven. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  qt.  milk,  2  eggs,  l/2  tea  cup  rice  flour,  2  tablespoons  yeast 
powder,  and  enough  flour  to  make  batter. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Five  pts.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  qt.  of  warm  water,  1  cup 
of  yeast.  Mix  well  and  work  well  with  plenty  of  flour,  then  place 
in  well  greased  pans.  Let  rise  and  bake  in  oven  \]/2  hours.  Never 
set  at  night  but  work  as  soon  as  mixed. 

CLERMONT  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.  Robert  K.  Livingstone,  New  York,   1775. 

Two  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  large  tea  cup  cream,  sweet  or 
sour,  1  salt  spoon  of  salt,  flour  enough  for  a  very  soft  dough.  Mix 
well,  shape  into  small  balls  the  size  of  an  English  walnut.  Roll  out 
in  thin  cakes!  each  one  about  the  size  of  a  dessert  plate,  not  much 
thicker  than  paper.      Bake  in  a  pan  in  front  of  a  hot  fire. 


42  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Five  pts.  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  i  qt.  of  warm  water,  i  cup 
of  yeast,  2  tablespoons  molasses.  Mix  well  and  work  with  plenty  of 
flour,  place  in  greased  pans  and  bake  ife  hours.  Never  set  at  night. 
Work  as  soon  as  mixed. 

BREAD. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wheat  bread  four  loaves,  2  qts.  of  flour,  2  qts.  of  warm  water, 
2  cups  of  yeast,  nearly  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Put  the  salt  in  the  flour 
and  then  pour  in  the  water  and  finally  the  yeast.  Mix  up  well  and 
work  with  plenty  of  flour,  and  then  put  in  pans  greased  with  lard. 
Let  it  rise,  and  then  bake  i1/*  hours  in  a  hot  oven.  Never  "set"  it 
at  night,  but  work  it  as  soon  as  mixed. 

GERMAN  WAFFLES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezv  York. 

Stir  y2  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  tablespoon  sugar,  then  add 
slowly  1  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  little  flour,  beating  well.  Continue 
until  6  yolks  and  4  oz.  of  flour  have  been  used.  Then  add  %  pt. 
whipped  cream,  and  5  whites  beaten  light.  Flavor  with  lemon,  or 
nutmeg  if  liked.  Heat  waffle  iron  and  pour  a  tablespoon  in  each  com- 
partment. 

POTATO  PONE. 

"  Belvidere  Plantation,"  Eutaw  Springs,  S.  C. 
An  Old  South  Carolina  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Caroline  Smkler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
One  qt.  grated  sweet  potatoes,  1  pt.  molasses,  10  oz.  brown  sugar, 
24  lb.  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  light,  ginger  to  taste,  a  little  salt,  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  water  to  make  a  soft  batter.     Bake  a  long 
time  in  pans  about  3  inches  deep. 


BREADS  43 

"  BELVIDERE  PLANTATION  "  INDIAN  MEAL  GRIDDLE 

CAKES. 

As  Made  in  South  Carolina. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Brinton  Coxc,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  qt.  milk,  34  lb.  butter,  i  pt.  Indian  meal,  5  even  spoonfuls 
of  wheat  flour,  4  eggs.  Boil  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  pour  over 
the  meal,  to  which  1  teaspoon  salt  has  been  added.  Let  it  cool  and 
add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  sifted  flour.     Bake  on  a  griddle.' 

"  BELVIDERE  PLANTATION  "  BRANDON  PUFFS. 

A  South  Carolina  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Caroline  Sinkler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  qt.  flour,  1  tea  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  1  yeast  cake.  Make  it  into 
a  stiff  batter  over  night  with  sweet  milk.  Next  morning  add  a  tea 
cup  of  corn  meal  sifted  finely,  beat  well  and  put  to  rise  in  cups  or  muffin 
pans,  and  bake  when  light. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

One  cup  boiled  rice,  3  cups  flour,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  milk  enough  to  make  it  proper  consistency.  Bake  in  very  hot, 
well-greased  waffle  irons. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia. 

One  pt.  boiled  milk,  l/2  yeast  cake,  1  tablespoon  white  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  V/2  pts.  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and 
three  eggs.  Boil  milk,  take  when  lukewarm  and  add  yeast  dissolved 
in  y2  cup  of  tepid  water.  Add  butter,  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Beat 
well  and  stand  for  2  hours.  Separate  eggs  and  beat  whites  and  then 
yolks  and  add.     Stand  for  15  minutes  and  bake  ]/2  hour. 


44  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FAMOUS  VIRGINIA  YEAST  ROLLS. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Eugene  S.  Herndon,  Germantown,  Pa. 

For  Batter. —  i  pt.  of  lukewarm  water,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
white  sugar,,  1  small  teaspoon  of  salt,  iy2  teacups  of  fresh  yeast,  or 
34  yeast  cake,  dissolving  in  lukewarm  water  to  make  cup  full.  Mix 
with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  yeast  in  last,  after  mak- 
ing batter.  Make  it  at  2  P.  M.,  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise  ready 
to  make  into  dough  at  8  P.  M.  For  dough,  take  2l/2  pts.  of  flour, 
and  2  round  tablespoons  of  lard,  and  a  little  salt.  Work  lard  and 
flour  together,  and  put  in  batter  which  has  been  cooled.  Make  a  stiff 
dough,  and  work  20  minutes.  Set  aside  to  rise  over  night  in  warm 
place.  Before  breakfast  take  out  and  work  for  5  minutes.  Set  to 
rise  again  and  make  into  rolls  for  breakfast.  Put  a  little  melted  but- 
ter on  top  of  each  roll,  and  place  in  hot  oven. 

(Note. —  From  Mrs.  Eugene  S.  Herndon,  Germantown. —  This 
receipt  has  been  in  the  Herndon  family  (of  Virginia)  since  1668, 
and  handed  down  from  generation  to  generation.  I  copied  it  from 
an  old  receipt  book.  I  can  assure  any  one  who  uses  this  receipt  that 
they  will  be  compensated  for  what  may  seem  a  great  deal  of  trouble. 
I  have  never  failed  to  have  the  most  perfect  results.  Of  course  one 
must  use  judgment  in  heat  or  cold  in  setting  to  rise  and  length  of  time 
given.) 

INDIAN  SPONGE  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

Providence,  R.  I. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  1  tea  spoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  tablespoon 
boiling  water,  2  cups  meal,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons 
sugar.     Bake. 

POP  OVERS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Elisabeth  Cooper  Harrison,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  eggs  beaten  together,  2  cups  of  milk,  ij4  cups  flour,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Put  small  quantity  of  this  thin  batter  in  well-buttered 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. 


BREADS  45 

SPONGE  FOR  BREAD. 

A  Typical  Virginia  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Young,  Mrs.  R.  H.  Maury's  Cook. 
Richmond,  Va. 

Boil  i  potato  and  cream  it  fine.  Add  to  that  (if  you  make  2  qts. 
of  flour)  2  tablespoons  of  yeast,  and  take  some  of  the  2  qts.  sufficient 
to  make  a  batter.  In  winter  make  up  batter  at  about  three  o'clock, 
and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  Then  about  nine  or  ten  o'clock  at  night 
mix  it  well  into  the  rest  of  the  2  qts.,  reserving  j/»  pt.  of  2  qts.  of  flour 
to  knead  in  the  dough.  In  the  morning  knead  dough  well,  and  put  in 
warm  place  to  rise.  It  takes  about  one  hour  to  bake  to  have  ready 
for  breakfast,  either  made  off  into  rolls  or  loaf  bread. 

MUFFINS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cooper  Harrison,  Philadelphia. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  qt.  sweet  milk,  enough  flour  for 
a  stiff  batter,  one  compressed  yeast  cake,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg", 
pinch  of  salt.  Bake  slowly  on  griddle  over  a  good  fire.  Use  muffin 
rings.     Delicious  toasted  the  day  after  baked.  » 

DELICIOUS  CORN  MUFFINS. 

Providence,  R.  I. 

One  pt.  corn  meal,  il/2  pt.  milk,  little  salt,  3  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately.  Scald  the  meal  with  the  milk  the  night 
before  using  for  breakfast.  One  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Add  the 
yolks  first,  and  when  ready  to  bake  add  the  whites.  Bake  in  thin 
pans. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey,  Baltimore. 

One  qt.  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  cup  cold  water  and  salt.  Knead 
well  and  beat  10  minutes,  and  bake  quickly. 


46  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MRS.  GROVER  CLEVELAND'S  CELEBRATED  RECIPE  FOR 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts,  Bryn  Mazvr. 

One  bowl  Indian  meal,  i  bowl  rye  flour,  i  bowl  sour  milk,  i  large 
cup  molasses,  i  teaspoonful  soda,  i  teaspoonful  salt.  The  whole 
must  be  mixed  thoroughly  and  steamed  2^/2  hours,  then  baked  from 
20  minutes  to  a  l/2  hour,  depending  upon  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

MUFF  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Paid  C.  Lee,  Birmingham,  Ala. 

One  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  6  tablespoons  flour,  4  eggs 
beaten  separately,  salt  spoon  of  salt.  Let  the  milk  get  warm  enough 
to  melt  the  butter,  but  not  hot.  Mix  flour  carefully  into  the  milk  that 
it  may  not  lump.  Add  yolks  of  eggs,  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  last 
the  whites  whipped  stiff.  Beat  the  air  well  in  and  bake  quickly  in  pie 
plates  about  one  third  full  of  batter. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Contributed'  by  Mrs.  J.  Frailey  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pt.  milk,  3  cups  graham  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  boiled 
rice,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
If  with  dates,  2  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  chopped  dates.  Beat  eggs 
separately,  add  flour  to  milk  and  then  yolks  of  eggs,  rice,  salt,  butter, 
powder  and  whites  of  eggs.     Bake  in  small  pans  20  minutes. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Mrs.  Julia  Breckenridge,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezv  York. 

Three  pts.  sifted  flour,  6  oz.  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour,  salt;  4 
eggs  beaten  separately,  pt.  milk  warm,  teaspoonful  sugar,  part  of  yeast 
cake. 


BREADS  47 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

Mrs.  John  Moulten,  Reading,  Pa. 

One  pt.  milk,  pinch  salt,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  flour, 
and  3  eggs.  Beat  yolks  until  light,  then  add  milk,  then  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth,  add  butter  melted,  add  last  whites  beaten  light,  baking 
powder,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

Contributed  by  Airs.  John  Stephenson,  Winchester,  Va. 

A  piece  of  risen  dough  the  size  of  your  double  fist,  a  tea  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  white  sugar,  2  oz.  lard  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  biscuit  dough.  Beat  20  minutes.  Make  into  biscuit  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Richmond,   Va. 

Boil  2  cups  of  rice  quite  soft,  make  into  a  thin  batter  with  3  eggs, 
a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  milk.  Beat  light  and  bake  in  waffle 
irons. 

DROP  CORN  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

One  pt.  corn  meal,  2  pts.  boiled  gritz  or  small  hominy,  3  eggs, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  then  thin  with  milk  until  you  can  drop 
them  with  a  spoon  on  a  pan,  and  bake  brown. 

POP  OVERS. 

Mrs.  Gouverneur  Ogden,  New  York,   1880. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Elica  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr. 

One  egg  well  beaten,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sifted  flour,  salt 
ro  taste.      Drop  in  hot  gem  tins  and  bake  quickly. 


48W  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CORN  BREAD. 

As  Prepared  at  St.  Charles  Hotel,  New  Orleans. 

Two  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Mix  with  them  i  pt.  sour  milk  or 
buttermilk,  i  pt.  of  meal.  Melt  i  large  tablespoon  butter  and  add  to 
the  mixture.  Dissolve  i  tablespoon  soda  in  a  portion  of  the  milk  and 
add  to  the  mixture.  Then  beat  very  hard  and  bake  in  pan  in  a  quick 
oven. 

LAPLANDERS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy,  Philadelphia-. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  1  pt.  of  milk, 
pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  enough  flour  for  a  thin 
batter  to  pour  from  a  pitcher,  2  eggs.     Bake  in  cups  in  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  ROLLS. 

Two  cups  of  graham  flour,  j/4.  of  cup  of  wheat  flour,  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  Y/2  teaspoon  of 
salt,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Milk  to  make  a  thick 
batter,  1  tablespoonful  of  batter  in  each  roll  pan. 

BREAD  MUFFINS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pt.  of  broken  bread,  1  pt.  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  melted,  1  tablespoon  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  salt. 
Soak  bread  in  milk  for  J/2  hour,  add  butter,  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
light,  salt,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  then  whites  of  eggs  beaten,  and  baking- 
powder,  and  bake  in  small  pans. 

JANICE  MEREDITH'S  MAIZE  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia. 

One-half  pt.  corn  meal,  scald  with  y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1  large  tesapoon  baking  powder.  Mix 
thoroughly,  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  and  serve  with  a  spoon. 


BREADS 


49 


TO  MAKE  GOOD  YEAST. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

Three  mealy  potatoes  boiled  in  i  qt.  of  water.  When  soft,  peel 
and  mash  them  fine,  and  add  i  pt.  of  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes 
were  boiled.  Mix  in  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  and  add  1  teacup  of 
yeast  to  raise  it.     In  3  hours  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Richmond,  Va. 

Sift  into  a  pan  iVi  pounds  of  flour,  make  an  opening  in  the  mid- 
dle, put  in  2  oz.  of  butter  warmed  in  a  pt.  of  milk,  a  salt  spoon  of  salt, 
3  eggs  well  beaten,  and  2  tablespoons  of  yeast.  Mix  the  flour  into  the 
other  ingredients  and  put  the  whole  into  a  tin  pan  well  greased,  cover 
it,  put  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  it  is  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

One  pt.  of  meal.  1  pt.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  yeast  enough  to 
raise  it,  or  ]/\  of  an  yeast  cake.  Mix  the  batter  with  tepid  water, 
almost  as  thick  as  for  buckwheat  cakes.  When  risen,  bake  in  a  grid- 
dle. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

To  1  pt.  of  meal  add  a  large  spoonful  melted  butter,  1  pt.  of 
buttermilk,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  a  small  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  allowing  ample  time  for  the  meal  to  swell  after 
being  put  into  oven  before  browning. 


5° 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


RYE  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. 

A  Very  Old  Receipt. 

Mrs.  Jacob  Batcheller  —  New  England — 1770. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia. 

One  cup  of  sugar  house  molasses,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of 
boiling  water  poured  on,  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  graham  flour,  1 
cup  of  rye,  y2  cup  white  wheat  flour,  ij4  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt. 
Steam  for  three  hours  and  bake  1  hour  in  oven. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 
Contributed  by  Mrs:  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia. 

This  receipt  has  been  used  for  several  generations  in  a  Mont- 
gomery, Alabama,  family.  The  biscuits  were  formerly  beaten  on  a 
heavy  block  cut  from  a  large  tree,  but  of  late  a  biscuit  machine  has 
been  used,  and  is  very  satisfactory. 

One  qt.  flour,  1  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  soda  size  of  a  small  pea,  1 
kitchen-spoon  lard.  Sift  soda  and  salt  in  flour  thoroughly,  rub  lard 
in  flour  until  it  is  like  corn  meal.  Then  add  milk  and  mix  well.  Roll 
through  a  biscuit  machine  for  y2  hour,  or  beat  100  strokes  on  a  block 
with  a  heavy  pestle.  Cut  the  size  of  a  gentleman's  watch  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

SOUFLE  BISCUIT. 

Rub  4  oz.  of  butter  into  a  qt.  of  flour.  Make  into  a  paste  with 
milk,  knead  it  well,  roll  it  as  thin  as  paper  and  bake  it  to  look  white. 

DROP  BISCUITS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pt.  sour  milk,  1  pt.  sugar,  little  soda  and  salt.  Stir  with 
enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  pour  into  pans  and  bake.  Break 
instead  of  cutting. 


BREADS 


51 


SWEET  ROLLS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstrcth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  pt.  of  milk,  a  little  more  than  a  half  a  yeast  cake,  make  a 
batter  with  flour  and  let  it  stand  as  long  as  it  will  rise.  Take  6  oz. 
white  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  melted  butter  and  mix  with  a  l/2  pt.  warm 
milk,  not  quite  a  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  some  flour,  and  mix  all  together, 
the  same  as  other  dough ;  roll  after  mixing  and  let  it  rise  again,  then 
roll  out,  cut  in  biscuit  form  and  let  rise  Y\  an  hour. 

VIRGINIA  SOUR  MILK  BATTER  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 

Scald  y2  pint  corn  meal.  When  cool  beat  it  into  l/>  pint  of  clab- 
ber with  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  beat  well,  then  add  another  y2  pint  of  clabber. 
Beat  well.  Dissolve  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  'y2  cup  of  clabber  and 
beat  that  into  the  mixture  and  beat  the  whole  well.  Put  in  a  well- 
buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  y2  hour  in  quick  oven.  The  bread  is 
done  when  a  broom  straw  inserted  in  it  comes  out  without  any  of  the 
batter  adhering  to  it.     This  is  the  real  Virginia  batter  bread. 

KENTUCKY  SALT  RISING  BREAD. 
Contributed  by  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 

One  cup  sweet  milk  scalded ;  to  this  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  batter;  put  this  in  a  warm  place  over 
night  to  sour.  In  the  morning  put  in  this  1  pint  of  warm  water,  then 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise; 
this  will  take  about  two  hours. 

To  3  sifters  of  flour  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  and  y2  cup  yeast ;  work  up  into  a  sponge,  adding  lukewarm 
water;  set  this  to  rise,  which  will  take  about  three  hours.  When  it 
has  risen,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  40  or  50  minutes. 


52  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

VIRGINIA  BATTY  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  i  of  corn  meal,  3  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, made  into  a  batter  with  buttermilk,  or  some  milk  in  which  a 
teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  thoroughly  dissolved.  Pour  upon  greased 
griddle  from  a  spoon,  and  allow  the  cakes  to  have  the  thickness  of 
good  buckwheat  cakes. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Two  eggs,  t/z  cup  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a 
coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Use  a  high  cake  pan  well  greased,  and 
bake  in  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. 

MUFFINS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

One  pint  of  flour,  not  quite  ^  pint  of  cream,  spoonful  of  melted 
butter,  2  eggs  beaten  and  2  tablespoons  of  yeast.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  well  risen,  stir  down, 
grease  your  muffin  cups,  half  fill  each  and  set  to  rise  again.  When 
risen  bake  quickly. 

LAPLAND  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Charles  Mason,  "Alto,"  King  George  County,  Virginia. 

A  Great-Great-Granddaughter  of  Thomas  Jefferson. 

Contributed  by  her  Daughter,  Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith, 
Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Three  eggs  beaten  very  light  and  stirred  in  a  pint  of  cream,  then 
mix  in  1  pint  of  flour,  beating  until  perfectly  smooth.  Grease  your 
shapes,  pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  very  quickly. 


BREADS  53 

DUTCH  TOAST. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

One  pt.  of  milk  and  2  eggs,  sweeten  and  add  a  little  nutmeg.  Cut 
in  thin  slices  baker's  bread,  dip  in  the  custard  and  fry  brown.  Serve 
hot,  and  dust  either  powdered  sugar  or  cinnamon  over. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Richmond,  Va. 

To  4  eggs,  1  qt.  of  milk  half  sweet  and  half  sour,  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  and  sufficient  corn  meal  to  make  it  the  consistency  of 
pound  cake  batter.  A  small  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water,  a  little  salt  and  a  small  quantity  of  brown  sugar.  Beat 
it  well  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  small  earthen  pans. 

INDIAN  AND  FLOUR  BISCUITS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  y2  pt.  Indian  meal,  and  pour  boiling  water  on  enough  to 
moisten,  then  stir  in  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses  and  a  little  salt.  Let 
it  stand  until  cool.  Then  stir  in  two-thirds  cup  of  yeast  and  flour 
enough  to  mix  with  hands.     Let  it  stand  until  it  has  risen. 

RICE  OR  HOMINY  BREAD. 

From  an  Old  Plantation  Near  Charleston,  S.  C. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Caroline  Sinkler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  cups  of  cold  rice  or  hominy,  softened  with  hot  water,  beat 
m  3  e§"gs  light  and  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  spoonful 
butter.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  turn  out  when  done.  Serve  with 
butter  spread  over  it. 


54 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


THIN  CORN  CAKES. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal,  i  cup  of  boiling  water,  i  large  table- 
spoon of  butter,  salt  spoon  of  salt.  Beat  well  8  or  10  minutes,  spread 
on  tin  sheets,  and  bake  a  rich  brown. 


EGGS. 


EGGS. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Francis  Rawle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Use  only  a  silver  chafing  dish,  and  stir  with  a  silver  spoon.  Let 
the  eggs  be  broken  in  the  chafing  dish,  but  do  not  beat  or  stir  them 
until  they  begin  to  get  warm.  Respect  their  integrity  until  the  last. 
Do  not  put  any  butter  in  the  dish  until  eggs  have  become  heated.  Use 
only  best  butter,  one  tablespoonful.  Pepper  and  salt  can  be  added  at 
the  beginning,  or  with  the  butter. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS  AND  ONIONS. 
Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W .  A.  Glasgonj,  Jr.,  Philadelphia. 

Slice  6  hard  boiled  eggs.  Cut  a  large  onion  (mild)  in  thin 
slices.  Put  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  3  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  and 
stir  until  delicately  brown.  Add  2  tablespoonsful  flour;  pepper,  salt, 
and  nutmeg  if  desired ;  cup  rich  milk.  Stir  and  boil  in  a  few  minutes. 
Now  add  egg  and  set  saucepan  over  hot  water  until  eggs  are  re-heated. 
Serve. 

A  LARGE  OMELET. 

For  Mrs.  Burd,  from  Her  Affectionate  Eliza  Powel, 
October  13,   1810. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Beat  12  eggs,  yolks  and  whites,  to  a  froth,  add  2  middling  sized 
onions,  handful  of  fresh  parsley,  chop  very  fine  and  mince.  Beat 
these  ingredients  into  the  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Fry  it 
in  boiling  hot  butter,  five  minutes  is  long  enough  over  a  brisk  fire. 
The  eggs  will  form  into  a  pancake  in  the  frying  pan;  when  done, 
double  it  lightly  in  half,  and  dish  it  up  hot  to  your  table.  (The  French 
frequently  add  a  little  garlic,  or  fresh  leeks.) 

57 


58  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHEESE  AND  EGGS. 

Margaret  Cameron,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Soak  i  cup  of  dried  bread  crumbs  in  fresh  milk.  Beat  into  this 
3  eggs,  add  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  y2  lb.  of  grated  cheese. 
Strew  upon  the  top  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  deli- 
cate brown. 

EGGS  DIVORCON. 

Made  by  the  Chef  of  the  Arlington  Hotel,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Anders,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Have  in  a  deep  sauce-pan  boiling  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
have  at  hand  one  fresh  egg,  crack  carefully  not  to  break  the  yolk,  and 
after  poaching  one  minute  and  a  half,  lift  off  with  a  skimmer  and  lay 
on  puree  of  onions,  and  spread  over  a  tablespoon  of  Bearnaise  sauce ; 
the  other  egg  must  be  fried,  but  with  a  knife  see  that  you  will  fold 
the  white  right  over  the  yolk.  Cook  for  a  minute,  then  remove  and 
place  on  puree  of  spinach,  spreading  some  tomato  sauce  over,  and 
serve,  so  you  have  two  different  kinds  of  eggs. 


SOUPS. 


SOUPS. 

OYSTER  SOUPS. 

(These  are  old  and  tried  receipts.) 

Good  oysters  and  plenty  of  them,  being  a  necessary  ingredient 
—  unlike  the  penurious  old  lady  in  Fredericksburg,  Va.  (that  home 
of  hospitality  and  good  living),  who  on  one  occasion  was  dispensing 
oyster  soup  from  the  head  of  her  table.  The  oysters  were  few  and 
far  between.  The  old  negro  butler  stood  attention.  With  the  per- 
sonal pride  they  all  felt  in  those  days  in  whatever  concerned  their 
master  and  mistress,  he  grasped  the  situation,  and  as  she  used  the 
ladle  to  find  an  oyster  that  had  strayed,  he  bent  over  in  his  eagerness, 
forgot  to  whisper  and  said :  "  Dar  one,  misstis." 

OCHRA  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Etting,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One-half  shin  beef,  boil  6  hours,  or  until  thoroughly  done.  Strain 
it,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper  and  small  white  onion  chopped 
fine;  y[  peck  of  ochras  cut  very  thin,  ]/+  peck  tomatoes,  pared  and 
choffped.  Boil  these  in  a  sauce"  pan  2  or  3  hours,  stirring  them  con- 
stantly with  a  large  wooden  spoon,  then  pour  them  into  soup,  adding 
chopped  parsley.     Boil  2  or  3  hours. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  and  one-half  pint  of  beans  if  you  do  not  soak  them  over 
night,  1  pint  if  you  do,  1  teaspoon  summer  savory,  1  onion,  if  you 
like,  a  small  bit  of  pork  and  boil  with  a  beef  bone,  turkey  or  chicken 
bones.  Put  in  your  soup  dish  1  lemon  sliced,  4  eggs  boiled  hard  and 
sliced,  J/2  tumbler  wine,  ]/2  of  a  large  cup  tomato  catsup. 

61 


62  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BEEF  SOUP—  (THE  VERY  BEST). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C 

Get  a  good  shin  of  beef  and  break  the  bones  well.  Put  on  fire 
in  i  gallon  of  cold  water  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  6  hours,  boil  until 
scum  ceases  to  rise,  skimming  well.  Then  add  2  turnips  chopped 
fine,  2  carrots,  2  Irish  potatoes,  and  in  season  J/2  doz.  ears  of  corn 
cut  from  cob  adding  cob  and  let  remain  until  you  thicken  soup.  To- 
matoes and  ochra  are  always  the  greatest  improvement,  1  pint  of  each. 
The  more  tomatoes  the  better,  either  canned  or  fresh.  Just  before 
dinner  thicken  with  about  1  teacup  of  flour  well  mixed  with  cold 
water.  Browning  the  flour  gives  a  better  flavor.  Boil  a  few  minutes 
after  adding  flour. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

A  Typical  Old  Virginia  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Junius  B.  Mosby,  Richmond,  Va. 

Six  quarts  of  water  in  an  iron  pot,  2  medium  size  chickens,  2 
slices  bacon.  Boil  until  meat  is  falling  to  pieces.  Take  out  and  chop 
fine,  putting  meat  and  bones  back  in  pot.  Add  6  large  tomatoes,  1 
pint  butter  beans,  6  medium  size  onions,  season  with  salt,  red  and 
black  pepper  to  taste.  After  this  has  cooked  for  1  hour,  add  6  Irish 
potatoes  cut  in  slices.  One-half  hour  before  serving  add  6  ears  corn 
with  grain  split,  and  Y/\  lb.  of  butter.  Best  to  cook  in  thick  iron  pot 
and  constantly  stir  to  prevent  burning. 

BOUILLON. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Broadnax  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Six  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  fine,  6  quarts  of  water  and  boil  from 
four  to  five  hours,  then  add  1  carrot,  1  turnip  and  1  very  small  onion, 
and  boil  until  carrot  and  turnip  are  thoroughly  done.  Take  off  fire 
and  set  aside  until  next  morning,  remove  the  grease  and  add  white  of 
1  egg.  Put  on  fire  until  heated,  adding  salt  to  taste,  strain  it,  and 
put  enough  burnt  sugar  and  water  to  color  it  like  brandy. 


SOUPS  63 

TURTLE  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Put  meat  in  a  pot  of  water  and  boil.  Cut  one  lemon  and  remove 
seeds,  1  potato,  1  onion,  1  can  tomatoes,  some  bay  leaves  and  parsley. 
Boil  all  together  for  3  hours,  brown  3  tablespoons  of  flour  to  which  has 
been  added  a  little  of  the  soup  and  a  little  butter.  After  this  is  added 
boil  slowly  for  2  hours.  Have  in  tureen  a  hard  boiled  egg  chopped 
fine,  slices  of  lemon  and  chopped  parsley.  Season  soup  with  Worces- 
tershire sauce  and  salt,  then  strain  into  tureen. 

RECIPE  FOR  BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Harvey's  Restaurant,  Washington,  D.  C. 

One  pint  of  black  beans  or  turtle  beans,  1  small  onion,  4  quarts 
of  water,  1  small  chicken,  or  y2  large  one,  or  else  1  lb.  beef  and  a  slice 
of  middling  bacon.  When  the  soup  is  nearly  done  chop  up  the  meat 
which  has  been  boiled  in  it.  Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  and  make 
it  into  balls.  Roll  them  in  white  of  egg  and  dry  them  on  the  stove. 
When  the  soup  is  ready  to  be  served,  strain  off  the  beans,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  walnut  or  tomato  catsup  and  a  wineglass  of  good  sherry  with 
4  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  and  the  meat  balls  to  the  soup. 

PARKER  HOUSE  SOUP. 

Miss  Rice,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  B.  Meeks,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  quarts  of  beef  stock,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  beet,  2  small 
onions  cut  fine.  Add  to  this  1  can  tomatoes,  or  3  quarts  of  fresh  raw- 
tomatoes.  Boil  all  together  1  hour,  then  strain  it.  Put  5  oz.  of 
butter  in  a  pan,  heat  it  until  light  brown,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and 
stir  into  it  5  tablespoons  of  flour,  mix  well  and  add  it  to  the  soup. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  1  dessertspoonful  of  sugar.  Put 
soup  on  fire  and  stir  it  until  it  boils  5  minutes,  skimming  all  the 
while. 


64  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MODE  OF  MAKING  SARAH  DAVIS'  WHITE  DAHL  SOUP. 

Goderich,  Lake  Huron,  Canada. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  IV.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One-half  pint  dahl,  3  pints  cold  water,  2  blades  of  celery  or  1 
teaspoon  celery  seed  (tied  in  muslin),  3  sprigs  parsley,  1  blade  mace. 
y2  dozen  pepper  cones,  1  onion,  1  oz.  flour,  1  oz.  butter,  y2  pint  milk, 
4  tablespoons  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  cream  in  just 
before  serving,  and  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  afterwards.  Wash  dahl, 
put  into  sauce  pan  with  cold  water,  celery,  parsley,  mace,  pepper  cones 
and  sliced  onions.  Boil  one  hour,  or  until  dahl  is  soft.  Rub  through 
a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon  as  much  of  pulp  as  possible,  also  liquid. 
Into  an  empty  sauce  pan  put  flour  and  butter.  Rub  together  till 
smooth  over  fire  and  add  milk,  stirring  well  until  it  thickens.  Add 
soup  from  the  other  vessel,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  boil  up 
once. 

ONION  SOUP. 

An  Old  Virginia  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  up  12  large  onions.  Boil  them  in  3  quarts  of  milk  and 
water  equally  mixed.  Put  in  a  piece  of  fowl,  or  veal,  and  a  piece 
of  bacon  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  the  onions  are  boiled  to  a  pulp 
thicken  with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  mixed  with  1  of  flour.  Take 
out  meat  and  serve  it  up  with  toasted  bread  cut  irf  small  pieces  in 
the  soup. 

CRAB  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Fifteen  crabs  thrown  into  boiling  water  alive.  When  cooked 
pick  out  the  meat,  stir  it  into  2  quarts  of  water  in  which  a  pound  of 
bacon  has  been  boiled.  Add  1  pint  of  rich  milk  heated,  to  which  has 
been  added  2  well  beaten  yolks.  Pour  into  crab  soup,  cook  a  few 
minutes  without  boiling.     Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper. 


SOUPS  65 

MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  mushrooms,  1  cup  of  chicken  stock,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  yolk  of  1  egg,  }4 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wash  the  mushrooms  thoroughly  in  cold  water. 
Do  not  peel,  cut  them  into  thin  slices  (up  and  down  with  the  gills). 
Put  the  milk  and  stock  in  a  double  boiler  and  when  not  add  the  mush- 
rooms and  salt.  Cook  slowly  about  five  minutes  or  until  tender,  then 
stir  in  the  corn  starch,  which  has  been  moistened  with  a  little  cold 
water.  Cook  several  minutes,  then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  lightly 
beaten.  Serve  with  croutons  and  the  butter  broken  into  small  pieces. 
If  desired,  the  soup  may  be  pressed  through  a  fine  sieve  just  before 
the  yolk  of  egg  is  added. 

TURTLE  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

First  make  a  stew  of  the  turtle  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  in 
the  pot  with  4  tablespoons  of  lard.  Let  simmer,  uncover  pot  and  add 
4  onions,  4  pods  of  garlic,  parsley,  thyme  and  pepper  chopped  fine. 
Let  this  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  soup 
meat  and  sufficient  water  for  soup,  and  let  all  boil  as  with  an  ordinary 
soup.  When  ready  to  serve  add  ']/2  glass  of  sherry,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour,  finally  add  slices  of  1  lemon.  This  soup  can  be  made 
browner  in  color  by  adding  4  tablespoons  of  well  burnt  sugar. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Grandmother  Hannah  Burrows. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  qt.  of  beans  boiled  until  tender ;  add  1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  boil 
two  hours  and  strain.  Add  1  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  pepper,  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  few  cloves.  Just  before  serving  add 
brandy  and  sherry  to  taste  and  a  few  slices  of  lemon. 


66  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

GENERAL  BURNSIDE'S  CLAM  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Annie  Hammond,  Providence,  R.  I. 

Two  qts.  clams,  2  onions,  3  qts.  water.  Boil  2  hours  and  then 
strain.  Scald  1  qt.  milk  thickened  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  sea- 
soned to  taste.  Chop  the  clams  fine  and  remove  the  black  out  of  the 
stomachs. 

CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP. 

Grandmother  Larned's  Receipt  —  an  Old  Rhode  Island 

Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Frank  A.  Brastow,   Haverford,  Pa. 

Boil  the  head  and  put  in  8  quarts  of  water  till  the  meat  separates 
from  the  bones.  Tie  up  in  a  bag  a  handful  of  summer  savory,  'l/2 
the  quantity  of  sage,  2  tablespoons  of  allspice,  1  of  cloves,  2  large 
onions  and  a  little  mace,  and  boil  in  soup.  Strain  out  the  bones  and 
let  it  stand  over  night.  Skim  off  all  the  fat,  cut  the  meat  in  .small 
pieces,  put  in  2  teaspoons  of  black  pepper.  A  little  cayenne  a  little 
while  before  it  is  done.  Rub  T/\  lb.  of  butter  with  3  tablespoons  of 
flour  quite  smooth  and  let  it  boil  2  minutes.  Add  a  pint  of  port  wine 
and  give  it  another  boil. 

RICH  BROWN  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  6  lbs.  of  the  lean  of  fresh  beef  cut  from  the  bone,  stick  it 
over  with  4  doz.  cloves,  season  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  same  of 
pepper,  the  same  of  mace  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Slice  y2  doz.  onions, 
fry  them  in  butter,  chop  and  spread  them  over  the  meat.  After  you 
have  put  it  in  the  stew  pot,  pour  in  five  quarts  of  water  and  stew  very 
slowly  five  or  six  hours.  When  the  meat  is  dissolved  into  shreds, 
strain  and  return  the  liquid  to  the  pot.  Add  6  wineglasses  of  claret 
or  port  wine.  Simmer  again  slowly  for  about  half  an  hour.  When 
the  soup  is  reduced  to  3  quarts  it  is  done. 


SOUPS  67 

CRAB  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Minor,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  full  grown  fat  chicken,  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces  and  put 
it  bones  and  all  into  a  gallon  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  slowly  until 
reduced  to  2  quarts.  Then  strain  it  and  return  it  to  the  pot  adding  1 
tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper  and  a  pod  of  red  pepper. 
Take  2  doz.  large  fresh  crabs,  pick  all  the  meat  carefully  and  add  to 
soup.  Let  it  boil  up  and  add  y2  lb.  of  sweet  butter  rubbed  with  a 
tablespoon  of  flour.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  again  add  1  pint  of 
sweet  cream  and  1  pint  of  milk.      Let  it  boil  once  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Wash  1  large  chicken,  cut  up  in  pieces  carefully  removing  all  skin 
and  fat ;  place  over  fire  in  2  quarts  of  water  adding  1  lb.  of  bacon,  1 
large  onion  chopped  fine,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  few  blades  of  mace, 
a  handful  of  parsley. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Mrs.  John  Markoe,  Philadelphia  (1820). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  Ruckman  Philler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  down  an  old  fowl  or  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  what  is  cheaper, 
a  set  of  calf's  feet,  till  you  have  a  quart  of  jelly.  There  should  be 
an  onion,  some  mace,  pepper  and  salt  boiled  with  it.  Strain  off  the 
liquor,  let  it  cool  and  then  take  off  the  fat.  Put  50  sand  clams 
washed  (the  middle  size  are  best)  into  a  pot  over  the  fire  till  they 
open.  Strain  the  liquor  which  you  will  find  in  the  pot,  and  add  it  to 
the  meat  jelly.  Put  in  the  clams  also,  and  let  all  boil  an  hour  and  a 
quarter.  Then  add  ]/2  pint  good  cream  or  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  as 
big  as  a  walnut,  mixed  with  a  little  flour.  Stir  these  well  in  the  soup. 
Have  ready  in  a  tureen  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  and  some  chopped 
parsley,  pour  the  soup  in,  a  little  at  first  till  the  eggs  are  well  mixed, 
and  then  the  remainder. 


68  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PEPPER  POT. 

Mrs.  Rachel  Walker  Cresson  (1779)  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Anne  H.   Cresson,  Germantown,  Pa. 

Four  lbs.  of  the  three  different  kinds  of  tripe.  Soak  in  salt 
water  an  hour  or  two.  Put  on  with  6  qts.  of  water,  with  salt  and 
half  of  a  little  red  pepper.  Boil  until  thoroughly  tender.  It  will  take 
nearly  all  day.  Leave  in  the  water  over  night,  out  of  the  pot.  Cut 
the  tripe  in  small  pieces ;  flour  it  well  and  put  it  back  in  the  liquor 
which  has  been  reheated.  Add  2  small  potatoes  cut  in  pieces;  1  doz. 
cloves,  1  doz.  allspice,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  each  of  sweet  mar- 
joram, summer  savory  and  sweet  basil.  Boil  2  hours.  About  half  an 
hour  before  serving  add  dumplings  made  by  mixing  flour,  shorten- 
ing, salt  and  water;  make  not  too  stiff  and  of  the  size  of  marbles. 
Thicken  the  soup  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together.  The  soup 
should  be  about  as  thick  as  rich  cream  when  done. 

MOCK  TURTLE   SOUP    (ORIGINAL). 

Gen.  Dabney  H.  Maury,   Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  the  head  and  haslets  of  a  calf  (dead).  Take  out  the 
brains,  put  them  into  3  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  down  to  3  quarts. 
Put  into  the  water,  after  boiling  it  down,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme 
and  an  onion  chopped  fine,  1  large  teaspoon  of  allspice,  1  of  cloves,  1 
of  mace  and  1  of  nutmeg,  black  and  red  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 
When  the  head  and  haslets  are  sufficiently  boiled,  take  them  out  and 
mince  the  meat,  and  return  it  to  the  pot  with  'y2  pint  of  sherry  and 
a  teacup  of  walnut  and  tomato  catsup.  Make  a  thickening  of  brown 
flour  with  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  1  of  butter.  Garnish  tureen 
with  fritters  made  of  the  brains  and  6  eggs,  chopped  parsley  and 
pepper. 


SOUPS  69 

OCHRA  SOUP. 

An  Old  Virginia  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Get  2  double  hands  full  of  ochra,  wash  and  slice  it  thin,  add  2 
onions  chopped  fine,  put  it  into  a  gallon  of  water  at  an  early  hour  in 
the  morning-.  It  must  be  kept  steadily  simmering,  but  not  boiling ; 
put  in  pepper  and  salt.  At  12  o'clock  put  in  a  handful  of  lima  beans; 
at  half-past  1  o'clock  add  3  young  squash,  cut  in  small  pieces  a  chicken 
or  knuckle  of  veal,  a  bit  of  bacon  or  pork  that  has  been  boiled,  6  to- 
matoes, peeled.  When  nearly  done,  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  butter 
mixed  with  one  of  veal.  Have  rice  boiled  separately  to  serve  with 
it. 

NEW  ORLEANS  COURT  BOUILLON. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Fry  3  chopped  onions  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  —  then  add  a 
cup  of  tomatoes,  3  or  4  whole  cloves,  pepper,  salt  and  toast.  Let 
them  stew  together  for  30  minutes.  Then  add  1  tablespoon  flour  with 
about  ]/2  pint  of  claret.  Let  it  boil,  stirring  constantly  all  the  time 
for  5  minutes,  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Strain  sauce  and 
return  it  to  the  fire  in  a  saucepan.  Lay  in  the  fish  in  slices,  let  them 
simmer  gently  until  cooked,  which  will  require  from  6  to  10  minutes, 
according  to  thickness.  Have  ready  in  a  deep  dish  slices  of  toast 
enough  to  cover  bottom  of  dish.  When  done  lay  slices  of  fish  on 
toast,  add  the  remaining  1  pint  of  claret  to  the  sauce.  Pour  it  over 
the  fish  and  the  Court  Bouillon  is  ready  to  serve.  A  fish  of  5  or  6 
pounds  is  the  size  used  for  this. 


7°  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CALVES'  HEAD  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Julia  Breckinridge,  Va. 

Put  head  in  water  to  soak,  then  in  salt  water  to  boil  (take  brains 
out  and  tie  in  bag  to  boil).  Strain  liquor,  cut  all  meat  and  brains 
in  dice,  6  potatoes  cut  small,  dumplings  made  of  flour,  water  and  lard, 
small,  add  red  pepper,  3  bunches  of  pot-herbs,  sweet  marjoram  table- 
spoon, 4  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine.  Meat  balls  (meat  chopped  fine 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour)  fried  in  butter,  sherry  to  taste. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Francis  Brooke,  "  St.  Julian,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   James   T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  a  fat  chicken,  5  pints  of  water,  a  slice  of  middling  chopped 
fine.  The  soup  must  be  put  over  a  slow  fire  to  simmer  instead  of 
boiling  the  whole  morning  until  about  a  half  hour  before  dinner,  then 
let  it  boil.  For  thickening  use  a  pint  of  cream,  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  1  of  flour  and  a  bunch  of  thyme.  The  thickening  must  be  put 
in  before  it  boils  and  the  thyme  taken  out. 

Note. —  This  recipe  came  from  one  of  the  old  and  most  typical 
Virginia  homes,  "  St.  Julian,"  in  Virginia.  It  was  the  recipe  of  my 
great-great-great  aunt,  Mrs.  Francis  Brooke,  and  is  more  than  a  cen- 
tury old. —  Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Mrs.   George  Newbold  Lawrence,  New   York. 

Put  1  pint  of  kidney  beans  into  2  quarts  of  water,  boil  them  3 
hours,  then  pour  off  the  water,  mash  the  beans  through  a  colander 
with  a  wooden  masher,  then  throw  them  back  into  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt 
and  red  pepper.  Let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Add  a  wineglass 
of  white  wine. 


SOUPS  ;t 

PALESTINE  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Peel  and  cut  into  fine  pieces  2  onions,  2  turnips,  2  carrots  and 
2  potatoes.  Put  into  a  stew  pan  or  soup  pot  with  y%  lb.  of  butter 
and  the  same  quantity  of  lean  ham  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  chopped 
fine.  Put  this  over  a  brisk  fire  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  good  table- 
spoon of  flour,  mixing  it  in  well.  Add  1  quart  of  meat  stock  made 
the  day  before),  ^4  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  until  boiling,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  good  teaspoon  sugar.  Rub  all  through  a 
sieve  and  put  back  in  the  pot,  but  only  let  it  boil  up  once,  skim  well 
and  serve  with  small  piece  of  fried  bread  on  napkin. 

PEPPER  POT. 

From  Ellen  Gallagher,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  who  lived  with  Mrs.  William 
,  H.  Horstman,  her  son,  and  grandson,  and  great-granddaughter 
—  four  generations  of  reference. 

Use  a  tripe  and  a  knuckle  of  veal,  let  them  boil  all  day  separately, 
strain  the  tripe  liquor  into  the  veal  liquor  and  strain  off  the  fat. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sweet  marjoram,  pot-herbs,  and  potatoes  cur 
very  fine,  and  drop  in  flour  balls  or  dumplings,  and  let  boil  five  min- 
utes. 

CRECY  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,   1875. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  slice  of  beef,  put  7  quarts  of  water. 
Boil  all  day  to  3  quarts.  Strain  off  next  day.  put  in  soup,  bones  and 
vegetables  and  boil  6  hours,  then  strain  next  day,  skim  off  all  the 
fat.  Add  1  cup  of  split  peas,  boil  until  dissolved,  then  add  1  can  of 
tomatoes,  boil  an  hour.  Add  3  tablespoonsful  of  flour  and  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve.     Flavor  with  Worcestershire  Sauce. 


-J2.  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BISQUE  OF  CLAMS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Sims,  Bryn  Maim,  Pa. 

For  iy2  pints  of  soup,  take  i  doz.  large  clams,  stew  them  15 
minutes  in  their  own  liquor,  to  which  water  is  added  to  make  three 
gills.  Boil  3  gills  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Stir  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  1  of  flour  in  a  small  saucepan  until  it  bubbles.  Then  pour  boil- 
ing milk  in,  stirring  all  the  time.  Stand  aside,  squeeze  each  clam  with 
a  lemon  squeezer  and  you  will  find  but  an  empty  skin  remains.  Strain 
clams  and  liquor  to  the  white  sauce  already  made,  pressing  as  much 
juice  out  as  possible.  Stir  well,  bring  all  to  a  boil  and  remove  from 
fire.  While  you  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  2  tablespoons  of  the 
soup  stir  to  rest  and  season  to  taste.  Take  care  the  soup  is  boiling 
when  egg  is  added,  but  does  not  boil  afterward. 

PHILADELPHIA  FAMOUS  OLD  PEPPER  POT. 

From  a  Daughter  of  the  Old  Higgenbottom  Family. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  6  lbs.  of  best  mixed  tripe.  Boil  them  well  cov- 
ered with  water  in  separate  large  pots,  three  hours  at  least.  When 
cold  skim  all  grease  off,  and  put  the  two  liquors  in  one  large  pot. 
Cut  the  tripe  up  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  large  dice,  also  some  of  the 
veal.  Take  6  large  white  potatoes  and  4  onions.  Make  a  dough 
rolled  out  as  for  shortening,  and  make  little  balls  of  it  in  the  hand  the 
size  of  a  large  pea.  When  the  soup  is  boiling  drop  them  in,  a  couple 
at  a  time.  Thicken  the  soup  a  little  with  flour  paste.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  pot-herbs,  half  a  box  of  sweet  marjoram, 
half  a  box  of  thyme.  The  soup  when  all  cooked,  should  be  very,  full 
of  the  above  things. 


SOUPS  73 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  CLEAR. 

Used  by  Lord  Raglan,  Raglan  Castle,  England. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Joseph  Coleman  Bright,  Green  Hill  Farm,  Over- 
brook,  Pa. 

Scald  and  peel  2  doz.  large  chestnuts,  put  in  a  pan  y2  lb.  butter 
and  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  let  it  get  to  boiling  point  (be  careful  not  to 
burn).  Put  in  your  chestnuts  and  brown  them  to  golden  color.  This 
should  be  carefully  watched,  it  should  only  take  2  minutes  to  brown 
them.  Lay  them  on  a  paper  in  the  oven  to  dry.  Now  take  a  quart 
of  good  consomme  well  seasoned  with  celery  essence  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Put  your  nuts  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  over. 
Soup  must  be  boiling  to  bring  the  flavor  out  of  the  chestnuts. 

OCHRA  GUMBO  — AN  OLD  CREOLE  RECIPE. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,  Tex. 

Fry  slowly  together  1  sliced  onion  and  a  tablespoon  of  dripping 
or  a  slice  of  salt  pork.  Add  a  pound  of  lean  beef  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  stew  quickly.  Dredge  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  and  cook 
until  brown.  Add  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  1  pint  of  sliced  and  peeled 
tomatoes  and  1  pint  of  sliced  ochra.  Cover  and  simmer  for  \]/2 
hours,  adding  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Chicken  may  be  used  instead 
of  beef,  or  crabs,  or  shrimp.  In  the  latter  case  these  should  be  pre- 
viously boiled  and  the  meat  picked  out  and  added  last.  A  little 
chopped  ham  is  always  an  improvement.  Serve  with  boiled  rice. 
The  gumbo  should  be  very  thick  when  served. 


74  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Prather,  Louisville,  Ky.   (1810). 

Contributed  by  her  great- grandniece,  Mrs.  Alice  C.  Slaughter,  through 
Miss  Alice  W.  Richardson,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Put  the  calf's  head  in  \y2  gal.  of  water,  let  it  boil  until  the  meat 
drops  from  the  bones,  then  take  it  out  and  chop  very  fine.  Take  out 
the  brains  and  mix  with  them  one  pint  of  claret,  a  wineglass  of 
madeira  and  teaspoon  of  salt.  With  the  chopped  meat  put  an  onion 
chopped,  handful  of  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of  allspice,  ^  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  of  black  pepper,  little  sage  and  thyme  and  teacup  of  walnut 
catsup.  Work  a  little  browned  flour  into  a  piece  of  butter,  and  add 
just  before  you  take  off  the  soup. 

OYSTER  GUMBO. 

Mrs.  Lawton,  New  Orleans,  La. 

One  large  heaping  spoonful  of  lard.  When  boiling,  stir  in  one 
small  cup  of  flour  and  let  it  brown  well,  stirring  all  the  time  to  keep 
from  burning..  Then  add  a  large  onion,  sliced.  Let  that  brown. 
Have'  one  chicken  cut  up  as  for  stew  and  fry  in  lard  and  onion  mix- 
ture, then  add  as  much  water  as  you  would  for  a  tureen  of  soup. 
This  must  cook  for  five  hours.  One  hour  before  serving  put  in  ioo 
oysters  with  their  liquor,  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  2  tablespoons 
of  gumbo  filee  (a  powder  made  from  sassafras).  ,  As  this  lumps  eas- 
ily, stir  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  in  a  cup  of  the  liquid.  The  soup 
must  boil  up  once  after  the  filee  is  put  in,  and  then  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.     This  quantity  serves  10  people. 


SOUPS  75 

"  MAMMY  LACKEY'S  "  MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith,  Reading,  Pa.  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Katherine  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  gallon  cold  water,  1  calf's  head,  1  knuckle  of  veal,  il/2  lbs. 
veal  cutlet,  1  even  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed,  ^2  tea- 
spoonful  of  mace,  1  large  potato,  1  onion,  dash  of  sweet  marjoram, 
1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  x/2  pint 
wine,  enough  good  plain  pie  crust  dough  to  make  3  or  4  doz.  balls  the 
size  of  a  marble,  salt,  pepper,  flour,  butter  and  lard.  Cut  potato  into 
dice,  cut  onion  into  very  small  pieces,  tie  spice  into  cloth.  Wash 
head  in  cold  water  to  remove  blood.  Take  out  the  brain,  remove 
from  it  all  the  veins,  and  put  it  into  cold  water  until  used.  Boil  the 
head  in  one  gallon  of  cold  water,  and  if  the  kettle  is  large  enough 
the  knuckle  of  veal  may  be  boiled  at  the  same  time.  If  not,  it  can  be 
cooked  when  the  head  is  taken  out.  As  the  water  boils  off,  enough 
must  be  added  to  keep  the  same  quantity,  otherwise  there  will  not  be 
enough.  When  the  head  falls  apart  take  it  out  of  the  kettle,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  If  the  knuckle  of  veal  had  been  boiled  with  the  head, 
the  soup  may  now  be  strained  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  potato,  onion, 
spice,  dough  balls,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  allow  it  to  cook  slowly. 
As  soon  as  the  head  is  cool  enough  skin  the  tongue  and  cheeks,  remove 
all  bone,  skin,  veins,  etc.  Cut  tongue  and  meat  into  dice.  The  meat 
on  the  knuckle  is  not  used.  Chop  veal  cutlet  in  meat  chopper,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sweet  marjoram;  roll  into  balls  twice 
as  large  as  the  others,  and  fry  brown  in  lard  and  butter.  Keep  these 
hot.  Mash  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  with  very  little  flour,  and 
make  into  balls.  When  the  dough  balls  rise  to  the  top  of  soup  they 
have  cooked  enough.  Take  out  spice.  Add  meat,  brains  cut  into 
pieces,  parsley,  and  a  few  cloves  if  the  soup  does  not  taste  of  the  spices. 
Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  to  make  a  rich  soup.  Just  before 
serving  add  force  meat  balls,  egg  balls  and  wine.  Do  not  skim  off 
the  surface. 


76  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CREAM  OF  MUSHROOMS. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

If  hothouse  mushrooms  are  used  they  require  cooking  for  nearly 
or  quite  2  hours.  When  cooked,  put  the  mushrooms  in  a  vegetable 
press  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  water  in  which  they  have  been 
boiled,  add  to  this  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  a  pint  of  cream,  smoothly 
thickened  with  a  little  flour,  or  better  still,  rice  flour.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sherry  may  be  added  if  desired.  Pour  into  cups  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 


FISH, 


FISH. 

RECIPE  FOR  TERRAPIN. 

Taken  verbatim  from  "Aunt''  Mary  Sharp   (Old  Maryland 

Cook). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  C.  Wright,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Put  de  tarrypins  inter  er  tub  er  col'  water,  an'  let  'em  wash  dey- 
selves.  Den  pore  off  dat  water,  an'  put  some  mo'  in,  an'  let  'em  wash 
deyselves  agin.  Den  drap  'em  erlive  inter  biling  water,  an'  let  'em 
bile  till  ther  feets  is  easy  skunned,  tunning  'em  over  eve'y  now  an' 
agin.  Wen  de  feets  is  loose  an'  easy,  took  from  de  shell,  take  'em 
out  and  put  'em  on  er  dish.  Save  er  litl'  er  de  water  dey  was  biled 
in  an'  streen  it.  Wen  de  tarrypins  gets  cooled  off,  pick  'em,  but  be 
keerful  not  ter  break  de  gall.  Split  de  entruls  an'  cut  'em  up  'bout  er 
inch  long.  Wen  de  meat  is  all  cut  up,  th'ow  in  er  litl'  raid  pepper, 
black  pepper,  salt  an'  mace.  Put  'em  in  er  stewpan  wif  jes  'bout  miff 
er  de  water  dey  was  biled  in  ter  kiver'  em,  an'  den  stew  'em  slow  fer 
er  littl'  more'n  er  quarter  hour.  Den  put  in  some  browned  flour 
mixed  up  wif  butter  stirred  in,  near  'bout  er  quarter  pound  butter,  an 
free  (3)  tablespoonfuls  flour  ter  er  mejum  size  tarrypin.  Put  de 
wine  in  jes  as  de  tarrypins  is  took  outen  de  stewpan  fer  de  table. 

TERRAPIN  BROWN  STEW. 

Mr.  Joe  McAllister,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison,  Brandon,  Va. 

Have  the  terrapins  boiled  with  onion,  cloves  and  mace  and  celery 
seed.  Add  bread  and  black  pepper  and  salt.  When  nearly  done  put 
them  into  a  chafing  dish  into  which  you  have  mashed  2  large  spoonfuls 
browned  flour,  2  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  allspice. 
Boil  until  quite  thick,  add  a  glass  of  wine.     Eat  with  lemon  juice. 

79 


80  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PLANKED  FISH. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

(A  method  of  planking  shad  used  by  the  Piscataway  tribe  in  Mary- 
land. ) 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

A  pile  of  cord  wood  is  made  about  3  ft.  high,  4  ft.  wide,  and  8 
to  20  ft.  long,  according  to  the  number  of  shad  to  be  planked.  When 
this  has  been  reduced  to  a  bed  of  coals,  the  shad,  which  have  been 
previously  cleaned  and  split  down  the  back,  are  fastened  with  nails 
to  oak  planks  about  2  ft.  wide,  4  ft.  long,  and  3  in.  thick.  These 
planks  like  wine  of  ancient  vintage,  are  all  the  better  for  long  keeping. 
After  the  impalement  the  planks  are  set  up  edgewise  before  the  fire, 
and  while  cooking  the  shad  are  continually  basted  with  a  mixture  of 
butter,  baking  grease  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  with  the  addition  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Meantime,  the  roes  are  being  prepared  on  another 
and  smaller  fire.  When  all  is  ready  they  are  served  with  clam  chow- 
der and  fresh  spring  vegetables.  Many  years  ago  old  Jack  Anderson, 
a  relic  of  the  days  of  slavery,  used  to  say :  "  Well,  I  tell  you,  when 
dey's  done,  marse,  you  jes'  cook  an'  baste,  an'  baste  an'  cook  twel  dey 
smells  so  good  you  cain't  wait  no  longah,  den  dey's  done." 

FISH  PIE. 
Mrs.  J,  A.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

About  1  qt,  cold  boiled  fish,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  1  onion,  1  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  a  little  green 
celery  or  parsley.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Drop  the  onion  into  the 
cold  milk  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  take  out  the  onion,  add 
corn  starch  mixed  first  with  a  little  cold  milk,  butter  and  seasoning. 
Put  a  layer  of  sauce  into  the  dish  first,  then  fish,  and  repeat  until  all 
is  used.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  half  an  hour  or 
more,  according  to  oven. 


FISH  81 

MRS.  HABERSHAM'S  BROWN  TERRAPIN  STEW. 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Screven,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Eight  terrapin,  diamond  back,  or  6  yellow  terrapin,  i  teaspoon 
sugar,  carameled,  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  with  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  1 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  6  or  8  tablespoons  of  parched  flour,  i 
tumbler  best  sherry,  i  qt.  jelly  terrapin  was  cooked  in,  i  saltspoon 
powdered  allspice,  i  pinch  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon.  Put  butter  in 
a  deep  pan  on  stove  and  melt  it,  add  slowly  the  flour  in  which  the  all- 
spice has  been  thoroughly  sifted,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  stirring  hard 
all  the  time.  Heat  the  jelly  in  another  pot  and  add  little  by  little  to 
the  mixture  until  it  boils  and  becomes  smooth  like  starch.  Then  add 
sugar,  and  vinegar  to  sauce.  Then  the  terrapin  meat  and  eggs,  taste 
and  add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed.  Lastly  pour  in  wine  and  serve 
with  lemon.  Boil  terrapin  for  this  stew  with  bunch  of  herbs  and  2 
onions.     (For  16  people.) 

TERRAPIN  (MARYLAND  STYLE). 

The  recipe  of  John  Erwin,  a  negro  cook  from  Maryland,  who 
served  suppers  and  dinners  in  Philadelphia  before  the  Civil  War  — r 
1859,  1862,  1863.  1864. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Leila  Andrews  Smith,  Philadelphia. 

Wash  4  terrapins  in  warm  water,  then  throw  them  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  let  them  boil  till  the  shells  crack,  then  take  them  out. 
remove  the  bottom  shell.  Cut  each  quarter  separately,  take  the  gall 
from  the  liver  very  carefully,  pick  out  the  eggs  and  put  the  pieces  of 
terrapin  in  a  stewpan,  use  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  and  if  not 
enough  to  cover  them  add  some  more  water,  a  little  salt,  cayenne 
and  black  pepper,  a  little  mace  and  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg. 
Then  let  it  stew  slowly  for  Y4.  of  an  hour.  Make  a  thickening  of 
flour  and  water,  stir  in  a  few  minutes  before  you  take  it  off  the  fire 
and  add  3  or  more  glasses  of  wine,  add  the  eggs  as  you  serve  it. 
More  wine  and  spices  can  be  added  if  desired. 


82  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

STUFFED  CRABS. 
Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  (1877). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 

Cook  the  crabs  20  minutes.  When  cold,  cut  them  in  two  parts, 
clean  the  shells  well  and  keep.  Take  out  and  hash  the  meat.  Make 
Bechamel  sauce  with  cream,  not  too  thick;  add  1  onion  hashed  fine, 
and  fry  in  butter.  Spice  strongly  with  cayenne  pepper,  mustard, 
spices  and  nutmeg.  Cook  crabs  in  this  sauce  10  minutes,  add  crumbs, 
and  thicken  with  yolks  of  eggs.  Bechamel  Sauce.  —  Mix  cold  and 
well  together  in  a  saucepan  2  oz.  of  butter,  1  tablespoon ful  flour,  add 

1  pt.  of  milk,  set  on  fire,  stir  constantly.  When  turning  rather  thick, 
take  off.  Beat  a  yolk  of  egg  with  teaspoon  of  water.  Turn  it  into 
the  sauce.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SHRIMP  PILLAU.      ' 

Mrs.  Huger,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Take  1  qt.  of  rice,  boil  grainy,  while  hot  add  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  1  pt.  of  milk,  mace,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Have 

2  plates  of  pickled  shrimp,  put  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  shrimp,  let- 
ting the  first  and  last  layers  be  of  rice.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
put  it  over  the  rice  and  bake. 

LOBSTER  AND  CRAB  FARCEE. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  (1877). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  off  the  shell  carefully  of  a  boiled  lobster  or  crabs.  Chop 
a  piece  of  onion  fine  with  a  little  butter.  When  it  is  partly  fried  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Chop  your  lobster  fine,  put  in  the  pan  and 
stir  it  until  partly  fried.  Add  j4  pt.  of  milk  or  cream,  and  stir  again. 
Stir  frequently  to  keep  from  burning.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Lay 
the  pieces  of  shell  in  a  pan,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  an  oven. 


FISH  83 

SALMON  PUDDING. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  can  of  preserved  salmon,  3  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  butter 
melted,  y2  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  minced  parsley. 
Mince  the  fish  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor  for  sauce.  Rub  in  the  butter 
and  work  in  the  crumbs  and  add  the  seasoning,  and  last  of  all  add  the 
beaten  eggs.  Put  in  a  buttered  pudding-  mould  and  set  in  a  dripping 
pan  full  of  hot  water,  keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil,  filling  up  as  it 
evaporates.  Cook  for  one  hour.  Set  the  mould  in  cold  water  a 
moment  when  you  take  it  from  the  oven.  Serve  on  a  platter  with 
the  following  sauce.  One  cupful  of  milk  heated  to  a  boil,  and  thicken 
with  a  tablespoon  of  corn  starch.  Add  1  egg  beaten  light,  and  stir  in 
the  liquor  from  the  fish  and  1  large  spoon  of  butter.  Season  and  let 
it  cook  for  3  minutes  in  hot  water,  then  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
some  capers.  Pour  over  the  mould  of  pudding  and  serve.  Cut  the 
pudding  in  slices. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

W.  R.  Cook,  Steward,  "  Fishhawk,"  Washington,  D.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  little  water  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed,  then 
dip  fish  in  batter.     Then  roll  in  batter  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 

CRAB  RAVIGOTE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Joseph  Neff,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  crabs,  put  aside  to  cool,  then  pick.  Mix  meat  with  thick 
Remoulade  sauce  and  fill  shell.  Cover  meat  with  mayonnaise,  and 
decorate  with  anchovy  fillets  and  sliced  pickles.  Serve  with  sprig  of 
parsley  and  sliced  lemon.  Remoulade  Sauce.  —  Mix  together  in  a 
bowl  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  anchovies  that  have  been  preserved 
in  capers  and  oil.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  with  a  pinch 
of  scraped  garlic,  salad  oil  and  a  few  drops  of  malt  vinegar. 


84  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TO  COOK  TERRAPIN. 

Mrs.  Goodfellow. 

Mrs.  Goodfellow  was  quite  celebrated  in  Philadelphia  about  ioo 
years  ago.  She  was  at  the  head  of  a  famous  cooking  school  class 
where  young  ladies  of  the  representative  families  learned  the  art  of 
cooking,  it  being  considered  then  the  last  touch  to  their  education  pre- 
paratory to  entering  society.  Boning  a  turkey  gave  one  a  diploma  at 
this  celebrated  school.    * 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Francis  Taylor  Chambers,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  i  large  sized  terrapin  take  *4  °f  a  pound  of  butter,  y2  a  gill 
of  cream,  the  same  of  wine,  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  flour  to  your 
taste;  a  little  water  must  be  mixed  with  it  to  prevent  your  butter 
going  to  oil.  Just  before  you  take  them  up  stir  in  the  cream.  The 
boiling  of  the  terrapin  depending  on  the  size. 

BOSTON  FISH-BALLS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  P.  Searle,  Boston,  Mass. 

One  pint  bowl  salt  fish  picked  up  very  fine,  2  pint  bowls  of  pota- 
toes, pared  whole  and  raw.  Put  the  fish  and  potatoes  together  into 
cold  water,  and  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  wholly  cooked,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  drain  off  all  the  water,  then  mash  with  a  potato  masher, 
add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  a 
little  pepper.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  then  sprinkle  some 
flour  upon  your  moulding  board,  and  also  some  on  the  hands,  and  take 
small  piece  of  the  fish  mixture  and  roll  in  the  hands  to  about  the  size 
of  a  small  egg.     Then  fry  in  hot  fat  as  you  would  doughnuts. 

TOSSED-UP  CODFISH. 

Pick  fish  to  pieces.  Half  a  pint  of  thin  drawn  butter,  half  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Heat  until  nearly  boiling,  then  throw  in 
the  fish  and  boil  up  once.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 


FISH  85 

FISH  IN  MOULD  (NORWEGIAN  RECIPE). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  F.  Minis,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Boil  1  large  firm-meated  fish  (rock  fish)  not  quite  done.  Skin 
and  take  out  bones,  putting  the  bones,  skin  and  head  back,  to  boil 
down  strong.  Have  1  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  cream.  To  1  large  soup 
plate  of  fish  meat  put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  potato  flour,  pound  x/2  hour, 
adding  a  little  nutmeg  and  a  tiny  bit  of  mace.  As  you  pound  add  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time  of  the  milk,  cream  and  fish  essence.  Put  in  a 
mould.  Put  greased  paper  over  the  top,  bake  in  cool  oven  in  a  pan 
of  water.  Turn  out  of  mould,  dress  with  rounds  of  truffles,  make 
pink  shrimp  or  lobster  sauce  to  serve. 

SABOT  A  LA  CREME  AU  GRATIN. 

Mrs.  Bradley  T.  Johnson. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Poe,  Baltimore. 

Boil  a  fresh  cod  or  rock  weighing  4  to  5  pounds.  Pick  out  all 
bones,  season  lightly  with  white  pepper  and  salt.  Put  aside  till  the 
sauce  is  ready.  Sauce.  —  One  quart  milk,  mix  smoothly  with  *4  lb- 
flour,  put  in  5  small  onions,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  tied 
together,  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  ]/^  teaspoonful 
white  pepper.  Place  on  a  quick  fire,  stir  all  the  time  until  it  forms  a 
paste,  then  take  off  and  stir  in  ]/2  lb.  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Mix 
well  together  and  pass  through  a  sieve.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  in  a 
baking  dish,  and  a  layer  of  fish  alternately,  sprinkle  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese.     Bake  in  oven  y2  hour. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

One  lobster  cut  in  dice,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  tablespoon  flour,  2 
yolks  of  eggs,  Yz.  pint  milk,  pepper,  salt  and  Y\  nutmeg.  Put  butter  in 
pan,  add  flour,  when  thick  add  milk,  then  seasoning,  and  last  lobster. 
When  cold  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

::i:   ::_-_:  i     ffiff 

J:  .  -;  F ."."".     :    1"       :::  -     :    Pa. 

!  :  t          e        e  ri:    _  large  Epes b  ripe  :  n ol  jcs    :    irrt  r^: 

- '    -.-    :  red     e  "  '  t-  e                 I ."- : '  :Ft  ::       "    :    i:;::":::": 

Be    :_:t    -      Eake    :_:  all    the    seeds    in    peppers.     7:     es|      ::F      : 

:      -  -  - ;  - ;        V  -    .  -  -    - '       '                        t  enong     I      lave 

them   :    .:t      t     :  :             alt  and  a  dasl 

-    :i      Fill  e^rb  she  les       ;            3f  the  mixture  a    !  g jarnish  t  le 

::;       :     2  lz           -  ic2f  :f  cut  j        e  and    em   as       The  an- 

es  can  be  dispense  :     --:z---.  3                               e 

DODFISE  BALL 

Ma*     1  :i::v  •: 

f  11  F     .  :  Fa. 

F   :  I "  e  -  h     o  c  -  -   -  ex      -  : :  -    :      •  .      *•  the 

r  at  bedtime      In  the  morning  Ere  tames     ai 

beat  the        ei  fh  a  piece     F  butter  about  the  size  of 

an  egg       Pic  the  bones  out  of  the  :  -    v  v  -- 

:  :  -  ::'  -  t-  i    ,    :  -      Have  them  rolk 

Drop  then: 
Fivt  .  - 

tocc  serre  oi  :  -    -       :v  ttr. 

FF1  .V    F." 
Mr*.  3/. 

e       er,  meat  and  -        he  yolks  oi 

:      V'  :   v      :  '       ;:                 .  r    e           : 

-      v       :       '-  Pu:    '     -    \  v  ---      :     :.    l  :rter 

-     "F:    -- -  1       ~-    pu:     '    :e-—r:r  V.'her       '—.-'i   \"\yr    v.v    v 

.  - 


FISH  87 

TERRAPINS. 

Mrs.  John  Markoe.  Philadelphia.  Pa.  (1790). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  U'm.  D.  ll'insor,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  the  terrapins  until  the  shells  are  easil;    -  the  time 

depends  on  the  size  of  the  terrapins.      To  2  quarts  of  picked  terrapin. 
put  r  2  lb.  butter :  work  it  up  well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  ac  .. 
pounded  mashed  smooth  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  pepper  and 
salt.      Put  1  pint  of  cream  on  the  lire,  heal    I  Stir  in  gradu- 

ally the  butter,  flour  and  egg.  cook  live  minutes,  then  add  terrapin  only 
long  enough  to  heat  well,  all  slowly  done.  Then  add  1  pint  of  wine,  if 
you  like  them  thick,  add  more  flour  and  butter  mixed. 

TURBOT  A  LA  CREME. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  a  haddock  about  4  lbs.,  boil  it  until  the  bone  will  c 
and  the  skin  come  off  quite  easily.     Boil  1  qt.  of  milk  and   - 
it  4  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  a  little  salt.   1  egg.  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.     Put  into  a  bag  1  onion  cut  tine. 
pepper.  1  of  nutmeg,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  1  tab!;-  Fl    yme. 

and  boil  in  the  milk  to  extract  the  flavor  before  adding  the  fl 
butter,  etc.     Butter  a  dish,  put  a  layer  of  rish.  then  one     1 1  the 
ture.  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled.      S  me  top  t 

crumbs  and  a  little  grated  cheese  and  some  butter.     Bake  until  br 

TERRAPIN  WHITE  STEW. 

Coni 

Have  3  terrapins  boiled :  when  done  take  a  portion  of  the  liquor. 
rub  into  a  smooth  paste  the  yolks  of  6  hard  boik      eggs      "      - 
spoonsful  of  fresh  butter.      To  this  add  the  terrapin  and  Ik 
chafing  dish,  add  2  wineglasses  of  wine.   r  _>  grated  nutmeg 
spoon  salt.  1  lemon  rind  cut  thin,  a  little  cayenne  peppe~ 
of  cream.     Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  constantlv. 


88  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

KEDGEREE. 
Contributed  by  Miss  K.  Willcox,  Westport,  Conn. 

Equal  quantities  of  boiled  fish  and  boiled  rice,  for  a  half  pound 
of  each  use  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  grain  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a 
grain  of  curry  powder,  ]/2  tablespoonful  of  cream,  2  oz.  of  butter  and 
little  common  pepper  and  salt.  Remove  the  bone  and  skin  from  the 
fish,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  butter.  Add  the  rice  and  whites  of 
two  hard  boiled  eggs,  cutting  the  whites  into  small  pieces.  Then  add 
the  cream,  the  curry  powder  and  the  cayenne.  Toss  this  over  the  fire 
until  it  becomes  very  hot,  then  take  it  off  and  pile  it  very  high  on  a 
very  hot  dish.  Smooth  with  a  knife,  and  rub  the  yolk  through  a  sieve 
on  the  top  and  serve. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

Mrs.  Neil  Robinson,  Newport,  R.  I. 

For  6  persons  use  a  fish  weighing  4  lbs.,  1  qt.  sliced  potatoes, 
34  lb.  salt  pork,  2  good-sized  onions,  y2  doz.  crackers,  2  qts.  of  water, 
1  pt.  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
fish  first.  Put  potatoes  on  in  qt.  of  water  and  boil  10  minutes.  Cut 
pork  into  bits  and  cook  until  brown,  then  onions  sliced  very  fine.  Fry 
slowly,  spread  pork  and  onions  on  fish  and  cover  until  ready.  Stir 
the  flour  into  fat  remaining  in  pan  and  cook  until  brown,  then  add  the 
milk  and  boil  up  once.  Now  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
for  3  minutes.  Then  turn  milk  from  the  pan,  split  the  crackers  and 
let  boil  up  once. 

TO  FRY  FISH  IN  FLOUR  BATTER. 

W.  R.  Cook,  Steward,  "  Fishhawk,"  Washington,  D.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Mix  the  flour  up  in  a  little  water,  and  put  an  egg  in  and  beat  it 
all  up  together,  not  very  thick.  Then  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  the  fish  in  the  batter,  and  have  a  hot  pan  of  lard.  Then  it  is  all 
prepared  for  frying. 


FISH  89 

DEVILED  CLAMS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

One  hundred  clams  chopped  fine,  1  cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
milk,  l/\  lb.  butter,  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram,  red  and  black  pepper 
and  1  onion  chopped  fine.  Let  this  cook  until  thickens,  then  cool  and 
fill  shells.     Dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  boiling  lard. 

TO  DRESS  FISH  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Contributed  by  Geo.  IV.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Take  a  well  cleaned  fish,  and  lay  it  in  a  pan  on  slow  fire.  Flour 
it  well,  add  pepper  and  salt,  mace  and  cloves  with  parsley,  and  sweet 
marjoram  chopped  fine.  This  to  taste  and  according  to  size  of  fish. 
Half  a  pound  of  butter,  with  8  Bermuda  onions,  nicely  fried  (not 
scorched),  2  wineglasses  of  port  or  white  wine,  and  wineglass  of  cat- 
sup, or  y2  glass  of  Worcester  sauce. 

FISH  A  LA  CREME. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Allen  Maury,  Ashland,  Virginia. 

Take  4  lbs.  halibut,  whitefish,  rock  or  shad  and  boil  in  salt  and 
water.  When  done  take  off  the  skin,  remove  bones  and  shred  fine. 
To  1  qt.  of  cream  mix  well  3  tablespoons  flour,  34  lb-  butter.  l/2  onion, 
1  bunch  parsley  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Put  into  a  deep  dish,  a 
layer  first  of  fish  and  then  of  sauce  until  dish  is  filled.  Put  on  top 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  SAUTED. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans,  La. 

After  cleaning  crabs,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  all  over 
with  flour  and  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  them  in  a  hot  frying  pan  with 
butter  sufficient  to  cover  the  pan.  Be  careful  not  to  let  butter  burn, 
and  cook  until  brown.  Add  to  butter  in  pan  1  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice,  and  pour  over  crabs  when  ready  to  serve. 


9o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SHAD  ROE  CROQUETTES. 

Miss  Schenck,  Washington  (1880). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Two  shad  roes,  ]/2  pt.  cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
Y\  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Whites  of  4  eggs  and  sifted 
bread  crumbs  for  frying.  Put  the  roes  in  a  pan  of  salted  boiling 
water,  cover  and  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Take  off  the  skins  and 
mash  them.  Bring  the  cream  to  a  boil,  mix  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether over  the  fire,  but  do  not  brown.  Add  the  cream,  and  stir  until 
it  is  a  thick  custard.  Then  add  all  the  other  ingredients  and  spread 
to  cool  on  a  dish.  Roll  in  forms.  With  well  floured  hands  dip  in 
white  of  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  and  leave  for  two  hours  before 
frying. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER. 

Mrs.  General  William  B.  Franklin,  Hartford,  Conn. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Tex. 

Mince  lobster  or  crab  fine.  Boil  1  qt.  milk  and  stir  in  slowly  2 
large  tablespoons  flour,  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Season 
with  black  and  red  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and  a  bit  of  onion.  Fill 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  lobster  and  cream.  Sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  on  top  and  brown  in  oven. 


OYSTERS. 


OYSTERS. 

OYSTER  GUMBO. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Minor,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  one  fat  chicken  (an  old  one  is  best),  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces. 
Put  into  a  pot  a  large  spoonful  of  lard  and  i  heaping  spoonful  of  flour. 
Make  this  very  brown.  Then  add  the  chicken  and  fry  that  brown. 
Then  put  on  it  3  pts.  of  cold  water  and  a  little  minced  ham,  and  let  boil 
slowly  for  3  hours.  About  1  hour  before  dinner  add  as  much  oyster 
liquor  as  will  make  it  the  quantity  you  want,  some  red  and  black 
pepper,  and  let  it  boil  closely  until  about  15  minutes  before  dinner. 
Then  add  150  oysters,  let  them  merely  curl  up  and  become  firm. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  just  enough  fillet  to  make  it  not  quite  as 
thick  as  mush.  Return  it  to  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  not  more  than  5 
minutes.    .Serve  immediately,  as  it  becomes  thin  from  standing. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Sims,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Take  1^2  doz.  blue  points,  scald  them  in  their  own  liquor  —  be 
careful  that  they  do  not  remain  in  a  moment  after  it  boils.  Take  them 
out  and  cut  each  oyster  in  fine  pieces  if  they  are  large.  Put  a  dessert- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  with  same  of  flour.  Pour  on  this  1  gill 
of  the  liquor  strained,  1  gill  of  cream,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  l/2  saltspoon 
white  pepper.  Boil  all,  stirring  until  smooth.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Add  this  with  cut  up  oysters  to  sauce.  Let  all  get  hot  together, 
stirring  all  the  time.  It  must  be  very  thick  —  it  will  be  just  before 
boiling  point.  Take  from  fire  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent 
eggs  curdling.  Add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a  suspicion  of 
nutmeg.     Place  in  pattie  pan  shapes. 

93 


94  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington;  D.  C. 

A  small  oyster  is  used  for  this  purpose,  ]/2  doz.  being  the  number 
for  each  person.  For  6  plates  mix  3  teaspoons  each  of  vinegar,  grated 
horse-radish  and  tomato  catsup.  Six  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice  and  1 
of  tobasco  sauce.  Have  oysters  very  cold  and  place  in  small  glasses 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve.  The  glasses  should  also  be  chilled 
and  placed  on  plate  with  spoon  and  an  oyster  fork.  Thin  slices  of 
brown  bread  buttered  should  be  served  with  them.  Some  persons 
prefer  cocktails  as  a  finale.  They  can  also  be  served  on  individuals 
—  blocks  of  ice  —  with  center  melted  out  with  hot  poker. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  boiled  and  cut  into  short  pieces, 
and  25  big  oysters.  Put  a  layer  of  the  macaroni  in  a  baking  dish, 
place  a  layer  of  oysters  next,  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  so  on  until  all 
are  used.  Have  the  macaroni  cover  the  top  of  the  dish.  Sprinkle  it 
with  3  level  tablespoonsful  of  Parmesan  cheese,  or  with  broken  bits  of 
soft  rich  American  cheese.  Cover  the  whole  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  top  is  nicely  browned.  It  will  take  about 
twenty  minutes. 

TO  PICKLE  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  Richard  William  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadiualader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Open  large  oysters  and  wash  them,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  to  boil 
in  clear  water  with  a  very  little  salt.  When  they  are  sufficiently 
boiled,  take  out  the  oysters  and  put  them  in  cold  water  to  whiten 
them,  then  add  to  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  a  little  more  water  and 
salt,  some  blades  of  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  orange  peel.  Then  boil 
them  a  little.  Lay  your  oysters  with  their  spices  in  a  gallipot.  When 
the  liquor  is  cold,  pour  over  them,  and  tie  them  down  close  with 
white  paper. 


OYSTERS  95 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Procure  any  number  you  may  desire  of  the  finest  large  oysters. 
Wash  them  well  and  lay  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Strain  the  liquor  through 
a  fine  bag,  and  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  add  salt,  let  it  boil  and  skim, 
then  put  in  your  oysters ;  let  them  only  plump  up,  when  skim  out  im- 
mediately, placing  separately  on  dishes  until  quite  cold.  Take  enough 
of  the  liquor  to  cover  them,  add  to  it  a  blade  of  mace,  a  dozen  or  more 
of  whole  pepper  corns,  and  cloves,  and  a  pt.  of  clear  cider  vinegar 
to  2  pts.  of  liquor.  Put  the  cold  oysters  in  a  deep  vessel,  and  pour  the 
liquor  over  boiling.     Let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Minor,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  I  qt.  of  oysters,  strain  half  the  liquor.  Put  on  oysters 
and  liquor  in  pot.  Add  i  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  some  finely 
chopped  celery,  about  y2  spoon  of  celery  seed,  i  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a 
pod  of  red  pepper.  Let  the  oyster's  just  begin  to  curl,  take  from  fire, 
add  i  pt.  of  cream,  i  pt.  of  milk  (all  cream  is  better),  let  come  to  boil 
and  then  add  i  tablespoon  of  butter  creamed  with  i  of  flour.  Let 
come  to  a  boil  and  take  from  fire  or  oysters  will  toughen,  and  serve 
placing  i  inch  squares  of  bread  in  tureen  before  pouring  in  soup. 

TO  PAN  OYSTERS. 

An  Old  Servant  of  Mrs.  Morris  Hacker's.  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wash  the  oysters  in  a  colander  with  cold  water,  quickly.  Do 
not  let  them  stay  in  the  water.  Put  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
in  pan  or  chafing  dish.  When  hot  put  in  the  oysters,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  then  dredge  about  three  times  with  flour.  Stir  often,  then  put 
in  tablespoonful  of  cream,  or  more  if  necessary. 


96  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OYSTER  JAMBALAYA. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Lucretia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  dozen  oysters,  2  slices  bacon  or  ham,  iy2  tablespoons  to- 
matoes, %.  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  3  cups  boiled  rice.  Heat  butter  in  skillet,  put  in  tomatoes,  salt 
and  bacon  or  ham.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  oysters.  Cook 
them  ten  minutes  longer  and  stir  in  rice.  Cover  closely  and  set  aside 
in  a  very  warm  place  for  about  a  half  hour  before  serving. 

CELERIED  OYSTERS. 

Miss  Flora  Hartley,  The  Grammercy,  New  York, 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezu  York. 

One  doz.  large  oysters,  wineglass  sherry,  tablespoon  minced 
celery,  teaspoonful  butter,  salt,  pepper.  Put  butter  in  chafing  dish, 
when  melted  add  oysters,  celery,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  three  min- 
utes.    Add  sherry  and  serve  on  toast  or  not  as  you  please. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey,  Baltimore. 

One  hundred  large  oysters.  Put  on  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil, 
strain,  put  in  liquor,  teacup  cider  vinegar,  salt,  tablespoon  whole 
allspice  and  cloves,  several  pieces  of  mace,  couple  of  red  peppers;  let 
come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  oysters.     Let  cool. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Cracker  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg.  Use  all  the  liquor 
and  a  little  water  besides  and  a  tablespoonful  of  wine  to  a  small  dish. 
Put  in  dish  in  layers,  thus :  a  layer  of  oysters,  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and 
pieces  of  butter,  crumbs  on  top  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  liquor 
and  wine  all  in,  etc. 


OYSTERS  97 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Fifty  oysters,  let  simmer  in  their  liquor  five  minutes,  and  then 
drain  and  set  aside  until  cool.  Dry  with  towel,  chop  fine,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  small  piece  of  onion  chopped,  Y\  nutmeg,  parsley,  four 
hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  mix  all  together.  Melt  in  saucepan  5 
oz.  butter  and  stir  into  it  flour  to  thicken,  then  add  half  teacup  liquor, 
Y\  cup  milk.  Then  add  oysters  and  seasoning.  Let  cool.  Dip  in 
bread  crumbs  and  eggs  and  fry. 

OYSTER  BELLEVUE-STRATFORD. 

Baptists,  Head  Waiter  The  Bellevue-Stratford,   Phila.,  Pa. 

Place  in  chafing  dish  some  butter,  one  shallot,  or  young  onion 
chopped ;  when  these  come  to  a  browning  point,  put  in  sufficient  fresh 
mushrooms,  cut  in  long  strips,  and  cook  for  eight  minutes.  Take 
about  two  dozen  strained,  good-sized,  plump  oysters,  and  place  them 
in  dish,  putting  in  enough  Bechamel  sauce  or  thick  cream  to  cover 
oysters,  and  let  contents  boil  about  three  or  four  minutes.  When  on 
point  of  serving  add  desertspoonful  of  good  Madeira. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  BELLEVUE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Heath  Bannard,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wash  and  drain  twenty-five  large,  firm  oysters.  Put  into  the 
chafing  dish  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-half  teacupful  of 
chopped  celery,  which  has  previously  been  stewed  until  tender.  A 
teaspoonful  of  cracker  dust,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  a  dash  of 
paprika.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  teacupful  of  rich  cream 
and  the  oysters.  Cook  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl,  add  salt  to  taste 
and  a  wineglassful  of  sherry.  Do  not  allow  the  mixture  to  boil  after 
adding  wine. 


98  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OYSTERS  BELLEVUE. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Put  in  a  chafing  dish  about  5  oz.  of  table  butter,  add  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  English  mustard.  Stir  well.  Then  add  some  celery 
chopped  very  fine.  Let  the  whole  boil  with  about  a  pint  of  cream,  add 
about  a  teaspoon  of  cracker  dust  to  thicken  the  broth.  Stir  the  whole 
well,  then  when  it  comes  to  boiling  drop  in  a  dozen  fresh  opened 
oysters  one  by  one.  Cook  for  about  a  minute,  then  add  some  good 
sherry  or  Madeira.     Serve  very  hot. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Take  the  oysters  out  of  their  liquor  and  wash  them.  Pour  it  on 
again  after  straining.  Boil  until  the  gills  shrivel  and  adding  2  spoons- 
ful of  salt.  Take  them  out  and  add  to  the  liquor  a  little  mace  and 
whole  black  pepper,  and  boil  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise,  skimming 
it  all  the  time.  When  the  oysters  and  liquor  are  cold,  add  ^2  pint  of 
vinegar  and  pour  the  liquor  on  the  oysters.  The  above  is  for  2  qts.  of 
oysters. 


ENTREES. 


ENTREES. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE. 

Miss  Flora  Hartley,  The  Grammercy,  New  York. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Two  tablespoonsful  butter,  3  tablespoonsful  flour,  2  tablespoons- 
ful  sugar,  6  eggs,  il/2  cups  milk.  Put  milk  on  to  boil,  rub  butter 
and  flour  together,  put  in  milk  and  stir  until  thick.  Then  let  cool, 
beat  the  yolks  with  sugar  light,  then  the  whites  light  and  add.  Put 
in  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

POTTED  CHICKEN. 

Used  by  Mrs.  William  Logan  Fisher,  of  Wakefield,  German- 
town,  1850. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hannah  Fox,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  a  pair  of  chickens  until  you  can  pull  the  meat  from  the  bones. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  let  the  bones  boil  to  a  jelly.  The  next  day 
cut  the  meat  in  pieces,  throw  it  into  the  jelly,  when  melted,  and  add  to 
it  catsup,  salt,  allspice,  cloves  and  mace ;  cut  up  6  or  8  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  a  lemon  sliced.  Then  put  into  round  dishes  or  moulds  and 
let  it  cool  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

BEEFSTEAK  WITH  BANANAS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  W.  Noyes,  Montclair,  N.  J. 

Select  a  porterhouse  steak  about  two  inches  thick  and  trim  well 
of  bone  and  fat.  Broil  quickly  and  place  on  hot  platter.  Have 
ready  the  following  mixture :  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  'y2  teaspoon  of  white  pepper  and  spread  on  both  sides  of 
the  steak.  Take  three  plantains  (red  bananas),  fry  in  butter  and  lay 
on  top  of  the  steak.     Over  this  pour  bechamel  sauce  and  serve  at  once. 

101 


102  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SWEET  BREADS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.  Annie  S.  Hammond. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Annie  Swift  Hammond,  Providence,  R.  I. 

Take  4  large  sweet  breads  and  place  them  in  scalding  water  for 
five  minutes.  Then  transfer  into  cold  water.  Skin,  but  do  not  break 
sweet  breads ;  put  into  a  stew  pan  with  water,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  put  on  a  slow  fire.  Mix  1  large  spoonful  flour  with  a 
good-sized  piece  butter  and  stir  it  well  into  the  gravy.  After  leaving 
it  half  an  hour,  take  sweet  breads  up  from  the  gravy,  pour  it  into  1  pt. 
stewed  tomatoes,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  sweet 
breads  and  serve  hot. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN  OR  VEAL. 
Mrs.  Julia     Breckenridge,  Va. 

Put  chicken  in  little  water  as  possible,  boil  until  meat  drops  from 
bones.  Chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mace  and  onions. 
Put  into  layers  minced  meat  and  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  warm,  add 
quarter  oz.  gelatine,  and  pour  over  meat  in  mould  and  put  in  cool 
place. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

One-half  cup  of  stock,  J/2  cup  of  cream,  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  dashes 
of  pepper,  y  teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  salt,  pepper  and  the  yolk  of  egg, 
well  beaten,  after  the  sauce  has  been  removed  from  the  fire. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Half  pound  chicken  chopped  very  fine  and  seasoned  with  y  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  y2  teaspoonful  celery  salt,  J4  saltspoonful  of  cayenne, 
%.  saltspoon  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon 
onion  juice  (if  you  like  it),  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  One  small 
chicken  makes  y2  lb.,  and  this  quantity  makes  2  doz.  croquettes. 


ENTREES  103 

FRIED  SWEET  PEPPERS. 

Mrs.  Alice  Cabell  Palmer,  Nelson  County,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

Take  only  the  large  sweet  kind,  cut  downwards  in  strips  so  the 
seeds  will  be  attached  to  stems  and  thrown  away.  Melt  a  lump  of 
butter  in  pan.  When  hot  put  in  strips  of  pepper  and  fry  until  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

QUENELLES  WITH  SPINACH. 

English  Receipt  Used  by  an  Old  Housekeeper  of  Mrs.  Joseph  Coleman 
Bright  When  Formerly  in  the  Employ  of  Lord  Raglan,  of  Raglan 
Castle,  England. 

Make  a  force  meat  of  2  lbs.  of  veal,  season  with  mace,  salt  and 
pepper,  add  34  pt.  cream,  mix  well  and  poach  in  clear  soup.  Drop  a 
soup  spoonful  at  a  time  in  the  boiling  soup,  take  out  and  keep  hot. 
Have  ready  some  well  chopped  and  seasoned  spinach,  pile  in  the 
center  of  the  dish,  and  place  the  quenelles  round.  This  makes  a  very 
nice  and  dainty  entree. 

CHICKEN  TIMBALES. 

Lord  Raglan,   Raglan  Castle,  England. 

From  Mrs.  Joseph  Coleman  Bright,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  an  old  chicken,  pound  and  pass  through  a 
sieve,  add  l/2  pt.  of  cream  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Whip  all  together  ten  minutes.  Line 
1  doz.  timbale  moulds  with  macaroni  which  has  been  boiled  in 
milk  seasoned  with  salt,  fill  the  mould  with  the  chicken  and  steam  for 
30  minutes.  Carefully  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  truffle 
sauce. 


CROQUETTES. 


CROQUETTES. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  James  B.  Meeks,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Boil  a  medium-sized  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until  it 
is  tender,  remove  and  reduce  the  broth  (by  boiling)  down  to  a  teacup- 
ful,  which  will  be  a  jelly  when  cold.  Chop  the  meat  as  fine  as  possible, 
removing  the  skin.  Chop  half  a  small  onion  fine  and  fry  it  with  2  oz. 
of  butter,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  half  a  minute,  add  the  meat 
and  broth,  half  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  half  a  sweetbread, 
or  as  much  calves'  brains  (previously  boiled  tender),  salt,  pepper,  little 
sweet  marjoram.  Stir  2  minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of 
2  raw  eggs,  mix  well  until  it  is  a  gelatinous  mass.  Spread  on  a  dish, 
and  when  entirely  cold  mould  it  into  forms.  Dip  into  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  them 
from  falling  to  pieces  when  frying. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1875. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Half  a  good-sized  chicken.  Chop  fine.  Chop  fine  l/2  onion,  fry 
with  1  oz.  butter,  add  y2  tablespoon  flour,  stir  for  half  a  minute, 
then  add  the  chopped  meat,  a  little  over  a  gill  of  broth,  salt,  pepper, 
pinch  of  nutmeg.  Stir  for  about  2  minutes,  take  from  fire,  mix  2 
yolks  of  eggs  with  it,  put  back,  stir  for  one  minute,  add  chopped  mush- 
rooms, or  truffles,  or  both  together.  Make  bread  crumbs  of  pastry 
crust,  roll  croquettes  in  shape,  dip  each  one  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in 
crumbs  again,  and  fry. 

107 


io8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

One  cup  rice,  i  pt.  milk,  i  pt.  water.  Boil  about  an  hour  till  the 
rice  is  dry.  Take  off,  put  in  a  bowl,  add  i  egg,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  small  piece  of  butter.  Shape  and  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs.     Fry  in  lard  very  hot,  enough  to  cover  them. 


FOWL. 


FOWL. 

SPRING  CHICKENS  SMOTHERED  IN  MUSHROOMS. 

This  old  and  tried  New  Orleans  recipe  is  from  a  written  book 
compiled  from  Mrs.  R.  O.  Pritchard's  collected  and  original  recipes, 
by  Mrs.  Theodore  Shute,  New  Orleans,   1894. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Herbert  L.  Clark,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  the  chicken  as  for  frying  —  in  a  skillet  put  2  or  3  slices  of 
pickled  pork  and  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  put  chickens  in  skin  side  up,  put 
a  pan  or  cover  on  top,  and  weight  it  to  keep  it  down.  Set  skillet  on 
a  slow  fire.  When  cooked  on  the  under  side  put  the  skin  side  down. 
When  this  has  browned  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  still  keeping 
closely  covered,  basting  constantly.  After  chickens  are  browned  re- 
move weight  and  keep  turning  the  chickens.  It  takes  2  hours  of  slow 
cooking  to  smother  them  soft  and  nice.  When  done  rub  a  full  tea- 
spoon of  flour  in  2  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Add  another  cup  of 
boiling  water  and  a  can  of  sliced  mushrooms,  or  the  fresh  ones.  Let 
this  cook  awhile.  When  about  to  send  to  table  add  a  cup  of  cream. 
Season  with  black  pepper  and  salt.  If  not  rich  enough  add  more 
butter. 

CHICKEN  ALA  SANFORD  WHITE. 

From  the  Chef  of  the  Arlington  Hotel,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  M.  Anders,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Procure  one  2]A  pound  nice  Philadelphia  chicken,  tender.  Draw, 
singe  well.  Put  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  inside  and  place  in  a 
casserole  and  spread  a  little  butter  over  the  breast  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  remove  and  add  little  challots  and  a 
good  handful  of  soft  bread  crumbs  and  a  pint  of  good  cream  and  some 
Hungarian  paprica.  Then  place  again  in  the  oven  for  15  more 
minutes  and  afterward  same  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

in 


H2  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHICKEN  PATES. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Dana,  West  Roxbury,  Mass.  (1890). 

Take  the  white  meat  of  one  large  tender  chicken  from  the  soup 
pot  in  which  it  is  boiled  as  soon  as  it  is  tender.  By  using  the  chicken 
of  which  soup  has  been  made  it  is  flavored  with  the  vegetables,  and 
more  juicy  than  cold  chicken.  Cut  the  chicken  in  small  dice,  and 
leave  in  a  cool  place  else  it  will  soon  dry.  Into  y?  pt.  of  milk  mix 
smoothly  1  oz.  sifted  flour,  a  shake  of  red  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the 
same  of  nutmeg,  and  a  piece  of  mace  one  inch  square,  a  small  piece  of 
onion,  a  little  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  If 
it  gets  too  thick,  thin  with  cream.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Hav- 
ing made  the  sauce,  chop  up  one  truffle  which  mix  with  the  chicken, 
then  put  the  chicken  and  sauce  in  a  saucepan  together,  and  make  very 
hot.  Pour  it  into  puff  paste  shells,  with  a  thin  slice  of  truffle  on  the 
top  of  each. 

TERRAPIN  CHICKEN. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Stew  1  chicken,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  add  a  little  ground  all- 
spice, cloves  and  mace,  salt  and  pepper.  Work  a  tablespoonful  of 
good  butter  into  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Add  all  the 
above  ingredients  to  the  chicken,  and  let  them  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve  in  a  tureen  add  a  wineglass  of  sherry. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE,  CREOLE. 
Mrs.  Celestin  Villeneuve,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Fry  chicken  lightly  in  the  usual  way.  Dredge  flour  into  the 
gravy  and  brown.  Add  1  pt.  boiling  water,  1  qt.  tomatoes  peeled  and 
sliced,  1  small  onion  minced,  a  bunch  of  parsley.  Stew  slowly  ij4 
hours.  Serve  with  rice.  If  preferred,  rice  may  be  added  and  cooked 
with  the  stew.     The  latter  must  be  very  moist. 


FOWL  113 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Cunningham. 

Three  spring  chickens,  or  1  roasting  size  chicken.  Boil  the 
chicken  until  tender,  and  remove  bones.  Throw  the  bones  back  into 
the  water  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled  adding  onion,  salt  and 
pepper.  Boil  down,  strain  and  put  on  ice.  This  will  become  chicken 
jelly.  Cut  all  the  meat  up  fine.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  2 
heaping  ones  of  flour,  add  to  this  the  jelly,  the  meat  and  ^4  can  of 
mushroom  with  some  of  the  liquor,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 
a  little  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  Worcester  sauce,  the  grated  peel  of 
a  lemon  and  1  wineglass  of  sherry.  Line  the  sides  of  a  pie  dish  with 
good  crusts,  and  bake  in  an  oven  until  brown.  Pour  in  the  chicken, 
put  a  light  crust  on  top,  bake  in  an  oven  and  serve  as  soon  as  it  be- 
comes a  light  brown. 

TO  ROAST  YOUNG  CHICKENS. 
Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Pluck  carefully  your  chickens,  put  them  in  your  pan.  Have  your 
oven  hot,  dredge  and  baste  them  with  lard.  They  will  take  Y\  hour 
to  roast  in  a  hot  oven.  Pour  over  them  butter  and  parsley,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

A  YELLOW  FRICASSEE. 

Mrs.  Celestin  Villeneuve,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

Cut  up  chicken  put  in  saucepan  with  a  slice  of  lean  bacon,  ]/2 
onion,  3  cloves,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  large  spoon  of  butter.  Add 
l/2  teacup  of  water,  cover  and  steam  for  1  y2  to  2  hours.  Remove 
chicken.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  1  of 
vinegar,  1  gill  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Beat  this  thoroughly  and  pour 
over  the  chicken.     The  gravy  should  be  as  thick  as  custard. 


H4 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


GRANDMOTHER'S  PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Grandmother  Batcheller's,  New  England,  1800. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  chicken  into  pieces  for  stewing.  Place  in  kettle  and  put 
on  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Skim  as  the  scum  rises.  Let  boil 
until  the  chicken  is  tender  enough  to  drop  from  the  bones.  Skim  out. 
If  the  water  has  not  boiled  away  to  the  amount  of  1  teacup,  boil  it  so. 
Free  chicken  from  bone  and  gristle,  pick  fine.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  If  the  chicken  is  very  fat,  skim 
off  most  of  the  oil.  Stir  in  the  liquor  and  mix  well.  Have  ready  two 
tin  tubes  3  in.  in  diameter  and  8  in.  long,  together  with  2  hard  wood 
polished  sticks  right  size  to  slip  easily  through  tubes.  Pack  the 
chicken  in  tubes,  stand  on  a  plate,  place  the  sticks  in  top,  and  place  on 
them  a  light  weight.  When  very  cold  take  out  and  slice  about  % 
in.  thick.     Serve  with  devilled  eggs. 

TO  MAKE  A  WHITE  FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadzvalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  a  couple  of  chickens  into  pieces,  skin  and  clean  them  perfectly, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Afterwards  dry  them  in 
a  clean  cloth.  Put  in  a  stewpan  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  milk  and 
water  mixed  in  equal  proportions,  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken,  and 
stew  them  over  a  gentle  fire  until  they  are  thoroughly  tender.  Set  on 
another  stewpan  over  the  fire,  pour  into  it  half  a  pint  of  cream,  quarter 
pound  of  butter,  mix  carefully  together,  and  when  that  is  perfectly 
done  take  the  pieces  of  chicken  out  of  the  other  stewpan,  with  a 
silver  fork  or  silver  tongs,  and  put  them  into  this  butter  and  cream. 
Add  a  little  salt  and  mace,  beat  to  a  powder,  and  a  couple  of  spoon- 
fuls of  pickled  mushrooms,  or  some  of  the  pickle  without  them.  The 
greatest  care  to  be  taken  is  that  the  cream  and  butter  mix  well  to- 
gether, for  if  otherwise,  it  will  be  greasy.  The  right  method  is  to 
keep  stirring  all  the  while  the  butter  is  melting. 


FOWL  115 

A  REAL  INDIAN  PILAU. 

Brought   from   India  by   an    English   Officer   to   Mrs.    F.    B. 

Loring. 

Contributed  Through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobc  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Take  1  seer  ( 12  ounces)  of  good  rice,  1  seer  of  butter,  2  fowls, 
y2  lb.  of  sultana  raisins,  about  three  tablespoons  of  almonds,  1  oz.  of  a 
mixture  of  allspice,  powdered  mace,  cardamoms,  cloves,  1  totah  ( l/\  of 
a  lb.  of  saffron),  2  oz.  of  ginger,  1  oz.  of  salt,  ^2  oz.  of  whole  black 
pepper,  1  whole  onion,  1  lb.  of  Mriey  (curds).  Boil  the  rice  until  it  is 
half  done,  fry  the  onion  brown  in  the  butter,  take  out,  put  in  the  raisins, 
and  fry  or  boil  them.  Then  cut  a  fowl  to  pieces  and  rub  with  the 
ginger  and  curds,  and  allow  to  remain  for  two  hours.  Put  some 
butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole,  over  this  a  layer  of  rice,  and  over 
this  some  of  the  onion,  raisins  and  almonds,  sprinkle  with  saffron  and 
water,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  meat,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the 
vessel  is  filled,  then  pour  the  butter  over  it,  cover  the  casserole  and 
close  it  with  paste  so  that  no  steam  will  escape.  Put  it  in  the  oven  and 
cook  three  hours. 

AN   OLD  VIRGINIA   RECEIPT  FOR  ROASTING  TURKEY. 

Shirley,  Va. 

Make  stuffing.  Take  crumbs  of  a  loaf  of  bread,  Y\  cup  beef  suet 
shredded  fine.  A  little  sausage  meat  or  veal  scraped  and  pounded 
very  fine.  Nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Mix  lightly  with 
3  eggs.  Stuff  the  craw  with  it.  Lay  in  your  pan,  your  fire  being  very 
hot.  Dust  and  baste  several  times  with  cold  lard ;  this  is  better  than 
lard  hot  from  the  pan,  and  makes  turkey  rise  better.  Serve  with  sauce 
made  as  follows  :  Cut  the  crumbs  of  a  loaf  of  bread  in  fine  pieces,  put 
in  cold  water  with  a  few  peppercorns,  a  little  salt  and  onion.  Boil 
until  bread  is  quite  soft.  Beat  well,  add  }4  lb.  butter,  2  spoons  thick 
cream,  and  serve  with  turkey  very  hot.  One  hour  and  a  quarter  will 
be  sufficient  to  roast  turkey  with  a  hot  fire. 


n6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Mrs.   Morris  Hacker,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Quarter-pound  of  butter  and  small  cup  of  stock  in  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  Split  the  chickens  down  the  back,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  dredge  well  with  flour  all  over.  Cover  the  pan  closely,  and 
baste  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  When  you  put  the  chickens  in  the 
pan  put  the  giblets  under  them,  and  allow  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound. 
When  done  take  out  the  chickens,  mash  the  giblets,  and  add  half  pint 
of  rich  cream  which  makes  the  gravy.  The  chickens  should  be  put 
in  the  pan  breast  down. 

CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

Grandmother  Hannah  Wadsworth. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Chop  i  cold  chicken  and  one  parboiled  sweetbread  quite  fine. 
Make  a  sauce  of  one  cup  of  cream  (hot),  j4  cup  of  butter,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  flour.  Add  chicken  and  sweetbread  to  this,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  heat  over  hot  water  or  in  double  boiler 
fifteen  minutes.  Just  before  serving  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  a  glass  of  sherry  wine. 

CHICKEN  SAUTE  BELLEVUE. 

Andrew  Hisler,  Chef  of  The  Bellevue-Stratford. 

Have  one  spring  chicken  cut  in  8  parts  for  saute,  and  place  in 
saucepan  with  fresh  butter.  Brown  on  both  sides;  add  two  chopped 
shallots,  and  cook  until  they  are  yellow.  Add  a  glass  of  good  Madeira, 
let  reduce  until  nearly  dry.  Put  in  two  glasses  chicken  stock  and 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  in  five  oz.  terrapin  butter,  one  glass 
of  cream,  and  cook  for  ten  more  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  paprika, 
6  leaves  of  estragon,  chopped  fine.  Serve  on  chafing  dish;  garnish 
with  1  doz.  heads  of  fresh  mushrooms  —  which  have  been  previously 
prepared  in  butter  —  and  in  centre  place  about  1  doz.  truffles,  sliced. 


FOWL  n7 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE. 

Miss  Schenck,  Washington  (1880). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Make  a  white  sauce  with  2  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  When  made, 
add  one-half  teacup  bread  crumbs.  Cook  for  two  minutes,  then  add  2 
cups  minced  white  meat  of  chicken,  the  yolk  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  or  until  stiff,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
and  last  of  all  add  one  large  claret  glass  good  sherry.  Mix  well  and 
bake  for  35  minutes  in  a  buttered  dish.  Serve  hot,  and  do  not  let  it 
stand,  else  the  souffle  will  fall. 

CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  a  tender  chicken  (weighing  about  4  lbs.).  When  cold  re- 
move the  skin  and  cut  the  meat  both  light  and  dark  into  small  pieces 
as  for  chicken  salad.  Put  the  meat  in  a  porcelain-lined  stewpan  with 
a  pt.  of  cream.  Mix  together  until  creamy  }4  lb.  butter  and  4  table- 
spoons flour.  Add  this  to  the  chicken  and  cream.  Put  over  a  mod- 
erate fire,  and  stir  carefully  until  the  mixture  is  quite  thick.  Season 
highly  with  red  pepper  and  salt.  Just  before  serving  add  sherry 
wine  to  taste  and  2  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Serve  very  hot. 
The  wine  must  be  added  at  the  last  moment  before  serving. 

VIRGINIA  FRIED  CHICKEN. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  dredge  with  flour,  sprinkle  with  salt,  put 
into  a  good  quantity  of  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Fry  small 
pieces  of  mush  and  a  quantity  of  parsley  nicely  picked,  to  be  put  into 
the  dish  with  chickens.  Take  a  half-pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  add 
with  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  parsley.  Stew  a  little  and 
pour  over  chicken.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


n8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TIMBALES  OF  CHICKEN. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Lucretia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

White  meat  of  i  large  chicken,  ^4  CUP  of  stock  made  from  bones 
and  dark  meat  of  chicken,  i  coffeespoon  cayenne  pepper,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  2)A  tablespoons  butter,  y2  teaspoon  mixed  parsley,  i  white  of  an 
egg  beaten  stiff,  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  cup  cream,  y2  teaspoon  onion 
juice,  i  pint  mushrooms.  Mince  white  meat  of  chicken,  add  salt, 
pepper,  onion,  parsley,  flour,  egg,  mushrooms,  y  cup  stock  and  I  cup 
cream.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mould  or  moulds  and  let  steam  about 
one  hour.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce :  Sauce  —  One  cup  cream, 
i%  CUP  stock  made  from  boiled  bones  of  chicken  and  dark  meat,  half 
cup  mushrooms,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  milk. 
Into  the  stock  put  the  milk,  flour  and  butter  creamed  and  mushrooms. 
Let  this  cook  about  15  minutes  and  then  add  cream. 

COQUILLES  DE  VOLAILLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Clara  Pollard   Lee,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

Boil  1  chicken  as  for  salad.  Pull  the  meat  from  the  bone,  cutting 
in  pieces  size  of  a  dice.  Take  y2  a  cup  of  the  top  of  the  water  in 
which  the  chicken  was  cooked,  chop  small  onion  fine  and  boil.  Take 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  add  to  the 
chicken  water  and  onion,  stirring  constantly  until  it  is  quite  thick. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  1  cup  of  butter,  a  can  of  mushrooms  sliced 
thin,  a  few  truffles  and  1  cup  of  cream.  Season  highly  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.  When  cold  add  a  large  cup  of  sherry  wine.  Put 
chicken  in  this  sauce  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Place  in  shells, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  and  brown  in  the  oven  just 
before  serving. 


FOWL  119 

BONED  TURKEY. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Take  2  turkeys,  roll  in  white  paper  well  greased  with  lard,  and 
put  in  oven  to  roast,  the  lard  making  them  soft  and  juicy.  Make  a 
jelly  of  pigs'  feet,  seasoned  with  onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  an 
oblong  pan,  plain  sides  and  bottom.  Put  in  first  some  of  the  jelly, 
then  slices  of  carrots  and  beets,  already  a  little  boiled,  slices  of  hard 
boiled  egg,  a  little  parsley,  cranberries,  olives  seeded,  slices  of  lemon 
and  orange.  Then  put  in  turkey  in  layers,  nicely  sliced  from  the 
bones,  then  a  little  nicely  seasoned  sausage  meat,  then  long  thin  slices 
of  pork,  then  pour  in  more  of  the  melted  jelly,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Dip  in  hot  water  when  you  turn  it  out  to  serve. 


GAME. 


GAME. 

PIGEONS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstrcth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  two  hours  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Spice  with 
cloves,  etc.,  while  cooking.  Take  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  and 
add  a  glass  of  jelly  and  a  cup  of  wine  and  a  little  of  the  dressing  to  this 
gravy. 

"  A  FRICKASIE  "  (COLONIAL  RECIPE). 

Mrs.  John  Burroughs.  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1734. 

Take  ye  fowls,  cut  them  in  pieces  and  clean  them.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  mace,  nuttmeg  cloves,  some  parslay,  a  little  bit 
of  onion.  Let  them  lay  2  hours,  then  flowr  them  very  well,  fry  in 
sweet  butter  and  make  ye  butter  hott  before  you  put  them  in.  Fry  a 
fine  brown.  Wash  ye  pan  and  put  them  in  again  with  a  pint  of  gravy. 
Lett  them  swimyer  in  ye  gravy.  Take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  a 
little  grated  nuttmeg  and  a  little  juce  of  lemon  and  2  spoonfulls  of 
wine.  Shake  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  as  thick  as  cream,  pour  over  ye 
frickasie  and  so  serve  it  to  ye  table  hott.  . 

FRICASSEED  RABBIT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.    Charles  B.  Maury,  Wasiuugton,  D.  C. 

Skin  and  cut  in  pieces,  lay  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  drain  and 
put  in  saucepan  with  pepper  and  ]i  lb.  pickled  pork  cut  in  strips. 
Cover  with  water  and  simmer  J/2  hour.  Then  add  a  small  chopped 
onion,  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  a  blade  of  mace  and  cloves. 
Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  it  in,  and  simmer  till 
the  meat  is  tender,  then  stir  in  ]/2  cup  rich  cream;  if  not  thick  enough 
add  a  little  more  flour.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

123 


124  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

AN  OLD  VIRGINIA  RECIPE  FOR  BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Two  or  three  squirrels,  i  qt.  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  I  pt. 
butter  beans,  6  potatoes  parboiled  and  sliced,  6  ears  green  corn  cut 
from  cob,  'y2  lb.  butter,  i  teaspoon  ground  black  pepper,  y2  teaspoon 
cayenne,  i  gal.  water,  i  tablespoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  i  onion  cut 
up.  Put  on  water  with  salt  in  it  and  boil  up  5  minutes.  Put  in  the 
onions,  beans,  corn  and  potatoes.  Pepper  chicken  or  squirrels,  which 
must  be  cut  into  pieces,  and  laid  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the  blood. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  2^2  hours  very  slowly,  stirring  frequently  from 
the  bottom.  Then  add  tomatoes  and  sugar  and  stew  an  hour  longer. 
Ten  minutes  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire  add  the  butter  cut  in  bits 
the  size  of  a  walnut  and  rolled  in  flour.  Give  a  final  boil,  and  serve 
for  dinner. 

TO  ROAST  PARTRIDGE  OR  ANY  SMALL  BIRDS. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

Lard  them  with  slices  of  bacon,  dredge  and  baste  them.  Lay 
them  in  pan,  let  them  roast  ten  minutes.  Take  the  grated  crumbs  of 
half  a  loaf  of  bread  —  put  in  a  stew  pan  and  shake  lightly  —  until 
brown.  Lay  it  between  your  birds  and  pour  over  them  melted  butter. 
Serve  very  hot. 

TO  ROAST  PIGEONS. 
Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

When  you  have  dressed  your  pigeons,  roll  a  good  lump  of  butter 
in  chopped  parsley  with  pepper  and  salt  —  put  it  in  your  pigeons. 
Place  in  pan,  dust,  and  baste  them.  If  a  good  fire,  they  will  be  done 
in  twenty  minutes.  When  ready,  lay  on  hot  dish  and  place  around 
them  bunches  of  asparagus  with  parsley  and  butter  sauce  to  serve. 


GAME 


125 


TO  DRESS  DUCKS. 

An  Old  Virginia  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison,  Brandon,  Va. 

The  ducks  being  singed,  picked  carefully  and  drawn,  mince  the 
livers  with  a  little  chopped  bacon,  some  butter,  a  tablespoon  chopped 
onion,  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  mushrooms.  These  being  all  mixed 
together,  put  into  the  bodies  of  the  ducks  and  roast  them,  covered  with 
slices  of  bacon,  and  wrapped  in  paper.  Then  put  a  little  gravy,  the 
juice  of  an  orange,  a  few  shallots  minced  all  into  a  stewpan.  Shake 
in  a  little  pepper.  When  the  ducks  are  roasted  take  off  the  bacon, 
baste  them  and  pour  your  sauce  with  the  juice  of  orange  over  them, 
dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

TO  DRESS  DUCKS  WITH  ONIONS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J  antes  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Stuff  ducks,  with  livers,  bacon  and  onions  minced.  Add  one 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  and  chopped  mushrooms. 
Put  into  bodies  of  ducks  and  roast.  Cut  off  the  roots  of  small  onions, 
blanch  them  in  scalding  water,  pick,  and  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
little  gravy.  Set  over  a  gentle  fire  and  let  simmer.  When  done 
thicken  with  cream  and  flour.  Place  ducks  on  hot  dish,  pour  the 
ragout  of  onions  over  and  serve  very  hot. 

TO  ROAST  WILD  DUCKS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

When  the  ducks  are  dressed,  put  in  them  a  small  onion,  pepper, 
salt  and  a  spoonful  of  wine.  If  fire  is  good  they  will  roast  in  twenty 
minutes.  Make  gravy  of  necks  and  gizzards,  a  spoonful  of  wine,  half 
an  anchovy,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  one  onion  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Boil  until  reduced  to  a  half  pint.  Strain  and  pour  over 
ducks.  Serve  with  an  onion  sauce.  Garnish  dish  with  pieces  of 
bread,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  browned. 


i26  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

POTTED  PIGEONS. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Stuff  them  with  high  seasoned  stuffing,  then  dredge  them  with 
flour  and  fry  them  in  butter  until  they  are  very  brown,  with  half  a  nut- 
meg, little  mace,  half  teaspoon  of  allspice  and  cloves  (ground)  to  6 
pigeons.  Then  put  them  in  the  kettle  and  stew  about  three  hours.  To 
increase  the  gravy  put  some  hot  water,  flour  and  salt  into  the  butter 
and  spices  in  which  the  pigeons  have  been  fried.  If  still  not  enough 
gravy,  add  some  flour  and  water,  say  a  large  teacup  to  six  pigeons. 
Add  a  half  tumbler  of  wine  just  before  they  are  done. 

WILD  TURKEY  ALA  HANNA. 

Chef  of  Arlington  Hotel,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  M.  Anders,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  a  very  nice  wild  turkey  about  three  and  a  half  pounds. 
Singe,  draw  and  cut  head  off.  Then  split  but  do  not  separate. 
Season  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  a  half  pinch  of  pepper.  Cover 
all  over  with  a  soup  spoon  of  sweet  butter  and  put  it  to  broil  for 
twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Prepare  timbale  moulds  with  spaghetti 
filled  'with  puree  of  chestnuts  and  decorate  the  dish.  Have  ready 
cream  sauce  with  chopped  up  truffles  and  send  it  to  the  table. 

TO  STEW  WILD  DUCKS. 

Mrs.  Lewis  W.  Minor,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Having  prepared  fowls,  rub  the  insides  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  powdered  cloves.  Put  a  shallot  or  two  with  a  lump  of  butter  in 
the  body  of  each  duck.  Lay  in  a  pan  that  will  just  hold  them,  -putting' 
a  large  spoon  of  butter  under  and  over  them,  with  a  little  vinegar 
and  water.  Add  pepper,  salt,  lemon  peel  and  a  brush  of  sweet  herbs. 
Cover  pan  closely,  and  let  them  stew  until  done.  Pass  liquor  through  a 
sieve,  pour  over  the  ducks,  and  serve  hot  with  a  garnish  of  lemon 
sliced  and  pieces  of  bread  fried. 


MEATS. 


MEATS. 

ROAST  PIG. 

Beatrice  Lloyd,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  a  young  pig,  after  thoroughly  cleaning  inside,  rinse  it  out 
with  salt,  soda  and  water,  then  again  with  cold  water,  wiping  pig  dry 
inside  and  out.  Prepare  following  dressing:  i  cupful  of  crumbs, 
y2  onion  chopped,  2  tablespoonsful  powdered  sage,  3  tablespoonsful 
melted  butter,  1  saltspoonful  salt,  1  saltspoonful  pepper,  ^2  nutmeg 
grated,  and  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Moisten  with  J/2  cup  of  soup 
stock.  Stuff  pig  into  its  original  size  and  shape,  sew  up,  place  in 
kneeling  posture,  dredge  with  flour,  pour  a  little  hot  salted  water  in 
dripping  pan,  baste  with  butter  and  water  3  times  as  the  pig  warms ; 
afterward  with  gravy  from  the  pan.  When  it  begins  to  smoke  all  over 
rub  every  20  minutes  with  rag  dipped  in  melted  butter.  This  will  keep 
skin  from  cracking.  Roast  in  moderate  oven  2  hours,  place  pig  on 
dish  with  parsley  and  celery  tops,  a  wreath  around  neck,  and  sprig  or 
apple  in  mouth.     Thicken  gravy  with  brown  flour. 

CHILICON  CARNE. 

A  Recipe  Given  by  the  Mexican  Ambassador 
to  Mrs.  Francis  B.  Loring. 

Contributed  Through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Cover  two  pounds  of  tender  beef  with  water  and  push  the  kettle 
back  on  the  stove  where  it  will  barely  simmer  until  the  meat  is  in 
shreds.  Then  add  six  large  sweet  red  peppers  seeded  and  cut  into 
long  narrow  strips,  a  large  onion  minced,  a  tiny  pod  of  garlic,  and  a 
large  cupful  of  ripe  tomatoes  chopped.  Cover  and  simmer  until  the 
vegetables  are  thoroughly  done.     Salt  to  taste. 

9  129 


130  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

VEAL  BIRDS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Have  veal  cut  from  the  leg  in  very  thin  slices.  •  Pound  thor- 
oughly and  trim  in  pieces  2  inches  wide  by  4  inches  long.  Chop  the 
trimmings  fine  and  add  half  as  much  cracker  crumbs.  Season  highly 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  cayenne,  a  few  drops  each  of  lemon  and 
onion  juice,  moisten  with  stock  and  sufficient  egg  to  hold  the  mixture 
together.  Add  melted  butter  or  chopped  fat  salt  pork  to  whole. 
Spread  the  meat  with  the  mixture,  roll  and  fasten  with  skewers 
(wooden  toothpicks  the  best  for  this  purpose).  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown  in  butter.  Finish 
cooking  by  placing  the  birds  in  a  stew  pan,  adding  cream  to  nearly 
cover  (j/2  pt.  of  cream  which  you  buy  thinned  with  milk  is  enough), 
allowing  them  to  remain  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  skewers,  and 
arrange  on  pieces  of  toast  or  zephyrettes.  Strain  the  cream  remain- 
ing in  the  pan  and  pour  around,  or  serve  with  a  thin  white  sauce. 

SAUSAGE  SURPRISES. 

Bessie  Fraser,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Halve  J/2  lb.  of  sausages  and  remove  their  skin.  Coat  each  piece 
with  mashed  potatoes.  Roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

Take  1^2  pounds  of  veal  and  boil  until  tender.  Soak  %  b°x  °f 
gelatine  in  the  liquor.  Boil  6  eggs  very  hard  and  mash  fine.  Chop 
the  veal  fine  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon.  Put  alternate 
layers  of  veal  and  egg  into  a  mold,  press  down  and  pour  gelatine  over 
all.     Put  on  ice  to  harden. 


MEATS 


131 


JELLIED  TONGUE. 

Mary  B.  Garrow,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  WUliam  A.  Glasgozv,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  large  boiled  tongue,  cold.  Two  oz.  of  gelatine  in  ]/2  pt.  of 
water,  i  teacup  of  brown  gravy,  i  pt.  of  liquor  in  which  tongue  was 
boiled,  i  tablespoonful  of  burnt  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  pt. 
boiling  water.  Put  together  gravy,  liquor,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Add 
the  dissolved  gelatine  and  mix  well,  then  the  boiling  water,  and  strain. 
Cut  the  tongue  in  slices,  as  for  the  table.  Let  the  jelly  cook  and  begin 
to  thicken.  Wet  a  mould,  put  a  little  jelly  in  the  bottom,  then  a  layer 
of  the  tongue,  more  jelly,  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  full.  Cover  and 
set  on  ice.     Garnish  with  flowers. 

LIVER  DUMPLINGS. 
Sophie  Fisher,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia. 

Take  a  calf's  liver  and  chop  it  very  fine,  mix  it  with  V2  lb.  of 
beef  suet  also  chopped  very  fine,  '^2  lb.  flour,  2  minced  onions,  a  hand- 
ful of  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  sweet  mar- 
joram mixed,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  few  cloves  powdered,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  well  together,  wet  the  mixture  with  eggs 
well  beaten.  Make  it  up  into  dumplings  with  your  hands  well  floured. 
Have  ready  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water,  drop  the  dumplings  into  it 
with  a  ladle,  and  let  them  boil  an  hour.  Have  ready  bread  crumbs, 
browned  in  butter,  to  pour  over  it  before  they  are  sent  to  the  table. 

A  FAMOUS  BRISTOL  METHOD  OF  CURING  HAMS. 

Six  lbs.  fine  salt,  3  lbs.  of  brown  sugar  (or  3  pts.  molasses),  1  lb. 
saltpetre  powdered;  mix  all  together  for  20  hams.  Rub  each  ham 
well  with  the  mixture,  and  lay  them  in  tubs  for  5  or  6  days.  Then 
put  them  in  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Keep  them  in 
4  weeks,  and  then  smoke  thoroughly. 


132  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

LIVER  WURST. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  lames  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  6  hogs'  haslets,  and  take  from  them  all  imperfect  parts. 
Put  them  on  in  pot  of  water,  and  boil  them  until  tender.  Put  them 
on  a  tray,  liverlights  and  heart,  chop  them  very  fine.  Put  on  in  another 
pot  about  6  lbs.  of  fat  pork.  Boil  it  tender,  take  off  the  skin,  chop  it 
fine,  and  mix  it  with  the  liver.  Then  put  both  in  the  water  in  which 
the  pork  was  boiled,  throwing  away  that  in  which  the  haslets  were 
boiled,  as  it  would  spoil  the  whole.  Chop  12  onions,  put  them  in  the 
pot  and  put  it  on  the  fire.  Season  with  sage  (rubbed  fine),  salt  and 
pepper.  Then  stir  in  the  meal  until  thick  enough  to  fry.  A  delicious 
old  and  tried  receipt. 

SARONY  BEEF. 

Mrs.  Stephen  Brock,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  B.  Carrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  a  shin  of  beef  from  the  hind  quarter.  Have  it  cut  in  four 
pieces.  Put  it  in  a  pot  well  covered  with  water,  and  boil  it  until  the 
meat  and  gristle  fall  from  bones.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  put  it  in  a 
dish  or  jar,  and  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  sage  to  your 
taste.  Pour  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  and  place 
away  to  harden.     Cut  in  slices  when  cold. 

WESTPHALIA  HAMS. 

The  following  compound  will  give  to  any  common  ham  the  taste 
so  much  appreciated  in  that  sold  in  Westphalia,  and  is  recommended 
to  those  who  prefer  that  flavor.  To  100  parts  of  water,  dissolve  4 
pts.  of  salt,  2  of  brown  sugar,  1  of  Barbadoes  tar,  1  of  spirits  of  wine. 
After  it  has  been  well  mixed  and  has  stood  for  several  days,  take  3 
tablespoons  mixed  with  the  salt  and  saltpetre  necessary  to  cure  an 
ordinary  ham,  and  rub  well  in. 


MEATS  133 

TO  DRESS  CALF'S  HEAD  AS  TERRAPIN. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Richard  Gilpin,  Philadelphia. 

Take  a  head  prepared  and  cleaned.  Soak  the  head  in  water, 
changing  several  times,  till  thoroughly  clean.  Take  out  brains  and 
tongue,  then  cover  with  water  and  boil  30  minutes.  Then  cut  up  meat 
in  small  pieces,  save  a  bowl  full  of  the  liquor  the  head  was  boiled  in, 
put  away  till  x/z  hour  before  using.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  6  eggs 
boiled  hard,  2  tablespoons  of  browned  flour,  and  beat  together  with 
3/2  lb.  of  butter.  Put  the  meat  in  the  pot  with  the  liquor  and  when  hot 
stir  in  the  flour.  Stir  together  and  give  it  a  boil.  Last  of  all,  add  a 
teacup  of  cream,  and  when  ready  to  serve  dash  in  a  glass  of  wine. 
Serve  very  hot. 

FRESH  TONGUE. 

Miss  Schenck,  Washington  (1880). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Elizabeth  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  McraT,  Pa. 

Select  a  fine  fresh  tongue,  boil  and  skin  it,  and  serve  hot  with  the 
following  sauce :  Sauce  —  Two  ounces  butter,  1  tumbler  currant 
jelly,  l/x  lb.  citron,  ;!4  lb.  raisins,  l/\  lb.  blanched  almonds,  *4  lb-  dried 
currants,  and  1  large  glass  port  wine.  As  you  remove  this  from  the 
fire  add  a  dash  of  vinegar.  Place  the  tongue  on  a  deep  meat  dish,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

CHRISTMAS  HAM. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Soak  in  cold  water  over  night,  then  put  to  boil  in  cold  water,  and 
let  it  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Then  take  off  the  skin,  which  must 
come  off  easily,  prepare  a  dressing  of  1  beaten  egg,  2  spoonsful  brown 
sugar  and  rolled  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  all  beaten  together  and 
spread  over  the  ham.  After  the  ham  is  put  in  the  pan  to  bake,  pour 
1  pt.  of  sherry  over  it  and  baste  it  until  the  wine  is  absorbed  and  the 
top  well  browned  in  the  oven. 


i34  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PICCADELLO. 
Mrs.  Bradley  F.  Johnson,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Poe,  Baltimore,  Md. 

'-'-'  Take  any  cold  scraps  of  meat  you  may  have,  and  chop  very  fine. 
Mix  with  them  3  slices  of  ham,  or  one  third  of  bacon  to  the  quantity 
of  fresh  meat.  Put  in  a  cool  place  and  make  the  sauce.  Sauce  — 
Put  1  qt.  tomatoes  in  a  stew  pan  and  boil  until  done.  Remove  the 
cover,  and  pass  through  a  potato  masher.  Serve  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  mash  a  teaspoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Put  meat  in  sauce- 
pan, and  pour  sauce  over  it.  Stir  up  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and 
stir  until  eggs  are  scrambled.  When  done,  serve  on  toast  on  a  hot 
dish . 

LIVER  TERRAPIN. 

A  Philadelphia  Recipe. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Duggin,  New  York. 

Parboil  the  liver.  Keep  the  liquor  for  gravy.  After  cutting  the 
liver  in  small  pieces,  return  to  the  saucepan  with  the  liquor.  Season 
with  salt  and  black  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful 
of  dry  mustard  to  be  mixed  with  2  tablespoonsful  of  browned  flour. 
Boil  3  eggs  hard,  cut  in  fine  pieces  and  add  just  before  serving. 
Sherry  wine  to  taste. 

BROILED  BREADED  BEEF. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  rare  roast  beef  in  pieces  ^4  incn  thick,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  onion  juice  if  desired.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  and  roll 
in  soft  bread  crumbs.  Place  on  greased  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear 
fire  five  minutes.  Serve  with  horse-radish  sauce.  Mix  2  tablespoons 
of  grated  horse-radish  with  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1  salt  spoon  each 
of  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  stir  in  4  tablespoons  of  cream 
beaten  stiff. 


MEATS 


135 


TO  CURE  HAMS  OR  BEEF. 

Miss  Shippen,  September  ist,  1814. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Airs.  John  Cadwalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  8  gallons  of  water  add  12  lbs.  of  coarse  salt,  3  pts.  of  molasses, 
4  oz.  of  saltpetre,  and  1  shovel  of  ashes.  Boil  it  until  no  scum  arises, 
let  it  stand  until  cold.  Pack  your  meat  in  a  tight  cask  gently,  for  fear 
of  the  cement  arising.  You  must  put  a  weight  to  press  it,  so  that  the 
pickle  covers  it  at  least  3  inches.  The  quantity  of  pickle  is  to  be  made 
in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  meat  you  cure.  If  your  hams  or  beef 
be  large,  they  must  remain  in  6  weeks;  if  small,  4.  You  may  cure 
tongue  in  the  same  manner. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH. 

New  England,  1750. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  cup  of  meat  chopped  fine  with  a  meat  chopper  in  a 
wooden  bowl,  2  cups  of  potatoes,  cold  boiled,  also  chopped  fine.  Melt 
a  good  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  put  in  the  meat  and 
potatoes  after  carefully  mixing  with  a  fork.  Sprinkle  with  red  pep- 
per. Pour  over  this  a  cup  of  milk  into  which  a  teaspoon  of  flour  has 
been  beaten.  Cover  and  set  over  the  fire  until  brown.  Invert  on 
platter  and  serve  immediately. 

LIVER  AND  KIDNEY  STEW. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

One  lb.  of  calves'  liver,  1  beef  kidney.  Fry  the  liver  brown,  set 
the  kidney  to  simmer  in  2  qts.  of  water  until  done,  then  set  aside.  The 
next  day  slice  the  kidney  and  liver,  and  put  together  in  the  water  the 
kidney  was  boiled  in.  Add  a  few  spices,  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
rubbed  in  2  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Slice  half  a  lemon,  2  hard 
boiled  eggs,  'x/2  glass  of  wine. 


136  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SANTA  CRUZ  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  E.  W.  Clark,  Senior,  Germantown,  Pa. 

One  pound  chopped  raw  veal,  equal  quantity  in  butter  and  bread 
crumbs.  Boil  i  qt.  milk,  put  in  large  lump  of  butter,  pour  over  crumbs 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  meat  add  pepper  and  salt,  thyme  and  all- 
spice and  a  little  nutmeg.  When  bread  and  milk  are  very  cold  beat 
in  meat,  add  5  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  in  buttered  pudding  mould 
and  boil  3  hours.     Serve  with  a  rich  tomato  sauce. 

PATE  DE  VEAU. 

Contributed  by  Miss  M.  M.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  and  one-half  lbs.  of  finest  part  of  leg  of  veal,  fat  and  lean. 
Chop  fine.  Take  6  or  8  small  crackers  rolled  fine,  2  eggs,  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  teaspoons  of  pepper  and  nutmeg,  1  slice  of  fat 
salt  pork  chopped  fine.  Work  all  together  in  form  of  a  loaf.  Put 
bits  of  butter  on  top  and  grated  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  pan  with  water 
and  bake  2  hours. 

SAUSAGES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison,  Brandon,  Va. 

Four  lbs.  lean  meat,  4  lbs.  fat,  3^2  oz.  fine  salt,  2]/2  oz.  black 
pepper,  1^  oz.  sage. 

CREOLE  RECIPE  FOR  GRILLADES. 
Miss  Gottschalk,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Slice  iy2  lbs.  veal,  choosing  it  very  lean.  Fry  in  butter  in 
frying  pan  until  tender.  Add  3  good  sized  onions  sliced  in  round 
pieces,  also  chop  parsley,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  spare 
the  pepper.  When  your  meat  is  well  cooked  through  and  of  a  golden 
brown,  pour  over  a  cupful  vinegar,  then  put  it  aside  and  let  the  whole 
simmer  gently  for  10  minutes.     Then  serve  hot. 

(This  recipe  is  over  100  years  old,  and  comes  from  San  Do- 
mingo. ) 


MEATS  137 

TO  MAKE  OLLO. 

From  Mrs.  Randolph's  Cooking  Book  (Virginia,   1831). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Mcta  Lisle. 

Take  2  lbs.  beef  and  1  lb.  mutton,  a  chicken,  and  a  small  piece  of 
pork.  Put  them  into  a  pot  with  very  little  water.  Set  it  on  the  fire  at 
10  o'clock  to  stew  gently.  Sprinkle  over  it  an  onion  chopped  very 
small,  pepper  and  salt  before  you  pour  on  the  water.  At  half  after 
12  put  into  the  pot  2  or  3  apples  peeled  and  cut  in  2  or  3  pieces.  Cut 
up  2  tomatoes,  taking  off  skin,  2  or  3  cymblins,  a  handful  of  chopped 
mint,  lima  beans,  in  fact  any  vegetable.  Let  them  all  stew  until  3 
o'clock.     Celery  tops  cut  small  may  be  added  at  half  after  2  o'clock. 

(This  is  evidently  for  an  old-fashioned  3  o'clock  dinner.) 

KIDNEY  AND  MADEIRA  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,   N.  C. 

Through  Mrs.  Porticux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Take  6  kidneys  and  cut  the  outside  off  and  soak  in  cold  water  2 
hours.  Then  drain  off  water  and  put  in  fresh  cold  water  on  stove 
and  boil  4  hours.  Then  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
1  tablespoon  butter  thickened  with  a  little  flour.  Just  before  serving 
pour  in  2  wine  glasses  of  Madeira. 

TO  MAKE  SAUSAGES. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  tender  pieces  of  fresh  pork.  Chop  exceedingly  fine.  Chop 
some  of  the  leaf  fat,  and  put  together  in  proportion  to  3  lbs.  of  pork 
to  1  of  fat.  Season  very  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  dried  sage  rubbed  to  a  powder.  Make  into  cakes  and  fry. 
They  are  better  this  way,  but  keep  better  in  skins. 


1 38  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TO  ROAST  HAM. 

Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Wellford  Mason,  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Soak  24  hours  and  scrub  ham  with  clean  brush.  Boil  it  well. 
Take  off  the  skin,  cover  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  black  pepper. 
Make  incisions  with  knife.     Place  in  oven  to  brown. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 
London,  England.     (Date  1800  or  Earlier.) 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Duggin,  New  York. 

Half  pound  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  egg,  and  a  pint  of  milk 
well  beaten  together  with  large  wooden  spoon  till  frothy.  Pour  into 
a  well-greased  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  half  an  hour, 
then  put  under  the  meat  while  roasting  for  about  20  minutes. 


SAUCES   FOR  ENTREES,  FISH,  FOWL, 
MEATS   AND   SALADS. 


SAUCES. 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  TO  SERVE  WITH  THEM. 

Roast  Beef Tomato    sauce 

Boiled  Beef Horseradish  sauce 

Roast  Veal Mushroom  sauce 

Boiled  Mutton ^-gg  or  Caper    sauce 

Roast  Lamb Mint  sauce 

Boiled  Turkey Celery  sauce 

Roast  Pork Apple  sauce 

Boiled  Chicken Oyster  sauce 

Roast  Chicken Cranberry  sauce 

Venison  or  Duck Currant  jelly 

HOLLANDAI.SE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  George  Groves,  New  York. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Duggin,  New  York. 

Three  teaspoonsful  vinegar,  i  teaspoonful  of  stock,  4  yolks  of 
eggs,  3  small  pepper  corns,  juice  of  1  lemon,  5  oz.  of  butter.  Boil 
vinegar  with  peppers  until  reduced  one  half,  strain  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  half  of  the  butter  cut  in  small  pieces, 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  the  vinegar.  Set  the  saucepan 
over  boiling  water,  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon  without  stopping  until 
smooth.  Strain  into  another  saucepan  and  set  it  back  over  boiling 
water  as  before,  beating  steadily.  Add  by  degrees  the  remainder  of 
the  butter  in  small  bits  and  the  stock.  When  the  sauce  is  very  light 
and  frothy  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  lemon  juice,  and  serve 
immediately. 

141 


i42  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

DELICIOUS   CREAM   GRAVY   FOR  CHICKEN. 

Mary  Robertson  Hawkins,  Connecticut. 

A  well  prepared  tender  chicken  cut  in  pieces  for  stewing,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  is  cooked  gently  in  a  covered  saucepan 
in  just  enough  water  to  make  a  generous  half  pint  of  strong  broth 
when  finished.  No  water  should  be  added  after  it  has  begun  to 
cook.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  pour  oft*  the  broth  without  strain- 
ing. Add  to  this  a  paste  made  of  a  tablespoon  of  butter  creamed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  it  boil  just  a  few  minutes  to  cook 
the  flour.  Then  a  teacupful  of  thick  sweet  cream  and  return  to  the 
fire  a  moment  to  heat  again  quickly.  Serve  immediately  poured 
over  the  hot  chicken. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  FOWLS. 

From  the  old  recipe  book  of  Miss  "Margaret  Coleman  of  Phila- 
delphia, daughter  of  Robert  Coleman  of  Pennsylvania,  who  married 
Judge  Hemphill  of  Philadelphia.  Strawberry  Mansion  (then  known 
as  Turnersville)  was  their  country  place.  Mrs.  Joshua  Francis  Fisher 
bought  their  town  house.  Walnut  Street  near  Ninth,  which  since  her 
death  has  been  pulled  down  to  build  a  manufactory.  The  receipts  are 
about  ioo  hundred  years  old.  Margaret  Coleman  was  born  1774: 
married  in  1806;  died  1855. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Francis  Taylor  Chambers,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  y2  pt.  of  cream  and  \\  lb.  of  butter,  stir  them  together  one 
way  until  it  is  thick,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  fresh  mushrooms  or  pickled 
mushrooms. 

ASPARAGUS  DRESSING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  R.  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  large  spoon  of  butter.  1  tablespoon  flour,  asparagus  water. 
a  suspicion  of  onion,  white  pepper.  Take  off  fire,  stir  in  yolk  of  1 
egg  and  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 


SAUCES  FOR  ENTREES 


143 


FISH  CREAM  SAUCE,  FOR  CROQUETTES  AXD  PATTIES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Charles  B.  Maury,   Washington,  D.  C. 

One  pt.  hot  cream,  2  even  tablespoons  butter,  4  heaping  table- 
spoons of  cornstarch  or  flour,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  l/>  saltspoon  of 
white  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  celery  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne  pepper, 
a  few  drops  or  ]/2  teaspoon  onion  juice  (if  you  like  it).  Scald 
cream,  melt  butter  in  a  granite  saucepan,  when  bubbling,  add  the 
cornstarch.  Stir  until  well  mixed.  Add  about  one-third  of  the  cream. 
and  stir.  As  it  boils  and  thickens,  add  more  cream  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Add  seasoning  and  mix  while  hot  with  the  meat.  The 
sauce  should  be  thick  as  for  drop  batter.  One  beaten  egg  may  be 
added,  but  they  are  more  creamy  without  egg. 

TO  MAKE  CELERY  SAUCE. 

1800 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadzi'alader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wash  a  bunch  of  white  celery  very  clean,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
in  a  silver  or  tin  saucepan,  with  a  little  water  to  stew  till  it  is  very 
tender,  then  put  in  it  a  blade  of  mace,  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  add  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  y2  pt.  of  sweet  cream.  Shake  it 
well  around  and  boil  them  together ;  when  near  done,  add  a  little 
white  wine  and  catsup  to  your  taste.  Let  it  boil  once  up,  and  it  is 
done. 

GRILLADES   A   LA    CREOLE. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell.  New  Orleans.  La. 

Warm  a  stewpan.  into  this  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1 
of  lard.  When  thoroughly  heated  add  2  small  onions  and  small 
bunch  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  When  this  is  thoroughly  brown. 
add  can  of  tomatoes  or  6  large  fresh  ones,  and  cook  slowly  for  half 
an  hour.  Then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  meat,  and  cook  until  done. 
This  is  a  sauce  universally  used  by  the  Creoles  for  round  steaks,  or 
what  is  sold  in  Xew  Orleans  as  Daube.     It  is  verv  delicious. 


i44  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FISH   SAUCE. 

Cafe  de  Paris,  Monte  Carlo. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Put  in  saucepan  of  granite  —  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  some 
slices  of  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  and  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
a  glass  of  white  dry  wine  and  juice  of  I  lemon.  After  it  is  cooked, 
pour  over  your  fish.  Cover  fish  and  let  it  cook  very  slowly.  When 
it  is  cooked,  put  it  on  plate  on  which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  put  in 
stove  until  sauce  be  reduced  then  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
2J/2  cups  of  butter.  Do  not  let  sauce  boil.  Pass  through  sieve 
and  pour  sauce  on  fish,  and  serve  very  hot.  This  sauce  is  good  for 
any  white  fish. 

OLD  ENGLISH  COOKING— 1855. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Patterson,  .Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Gravy  to  Make  Mutton  Eat  Like  Venison. 

Pick  a  very  stale  woodcock  or  snipe,  cut  it  in  pieces  (but  first  take 
out  the  entrails),  and  simmer  with  as  much  unseasoned  meat  gravy  as 
you  will  want.  Strain  it,  and  serve  in  the  dish.  But  if  the  mutton  be 
not  long  kept,  it  will  not  acquire  the  venison  flavor. 

SAUCE  REMOULADE. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mix  together  in  bowl  2  tablespoons  each  chopped  anchovies  that 
have  been  preserved  in  oil  and  capers.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix 
the  above  with  salad  oil  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  One  pinch  of 
garlic  may  be  added. 


SAUCES  FOR  ENTREES  145 

TOMATO  GLACE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,   Washington,  D.  C. 

One  pound  can  of  tomatoes,  1  oz.  gelatine,  1  teacup  of  cold 
water  in  which  soak  gelatine  1  hour.  Then  add  tomatoes  and  let 
boil  10  minutes.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  celery  seed,  and 
mash  through  a  colander.  Let  it  harden  and  serve.  The  seedless 
tomatoes  are  the  best  in  flavor,  but  they  only  come  in  2-lb.  cans. 
This  will  keep  several  days.     To  be  served  with  mayonnaise. 

VENISON  GRAVY. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Bailey,  Boston,  Mass. 

Boil  the  rough  pieces  of  venison  with  a  little  mutton,  beef,  or 
any  other  kind  of  meat  nearly  all  day.  Then  let  it  rest  quietly  over 
night,  taking  off  all  fat  in  the  morning.  Then  thicken  it  with 
scorched  flour,  add  spices  and  sugar  to  taste,  with  as  much  wine 
as  you  desire. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  3  eggs  and  beat  very  light,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  teacup  of  cream,  1  of  vinegar,  1  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Stir 
until  it  becomes  thick.  Set  it  off  the  fire,  and  when  cold  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  over  the 
slaw,  and  toss  lightly  together. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  large  cucumbers.  Peel  and  grate  them,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  salt,  n  of  black  pepper,  a  handful  of  grated  horseradish,  1  large 
onion,  grated,  and  pour  over  this  1  pt.  strong  vinegar.  Bottle  and 
cork  loosely. 


146  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BERNAISE  SAUCE  FOR  STEAK. 

Cafe  de  Paris,  Monte  Carlo. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  I  minced  shallot,  salt  and  pepper,  bruised 
pepper,  tarragon,  chervil.  Add  2  teaspoonsful  of  vinegar,  reduce  it 
until  it  is  dry.  Add  3  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  it,  throwing  in  it  by  de- 
grees 3  tablespoons  of  fine  butter.  Pass  your  sauce  through  a  sieve, 
add  a  pinch  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  chopping  very  fine.  When 
done,  this  looks  very  much  like  a  rich  boiled  custard,  with  chopped 
green  in  it. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  tablespoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  olive  oil, 
1  cup  of  English  malt  vinegar,  'y2  teaspoon  of  pepper,  all  thoroughly 
mixed. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Clara  Thomas,  November,   1870. 

One  hard  boiled  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  these  well  to- 
gether, add  yolk  of  1  raw  egg,  beat  until  perfectly  smooth,  pour 
in  oil  gradually  until  the  dressing  becomes  a  thick  rich  cream,  then 
add  vinegar  to  taste.  If  too  much  oil  be  dropped  in,  use  a  small 
lump  of  ice. 

DRESSING  FOR  TOMATOES,  LETTUCE  AND   SALADS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  pt.  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  I  teaspoon  celery  seed,  1  teaspoon 
pepper,  1  tablesooon  butter.  Beat  well  together.  Put  on  fire  and 
let  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time. 


SAUCES  FOR  ENTREES 


147 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,   Washington,  D.   C. 

Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  teacup  of  olive  oil,  lemon  juice  to  taste, 
juice  of  1  pepper,  salt,  mustard  if  you  like  it.  celery  seed,  and  a 
little  onion  if  you  choose.  Put  the  eggs  in  a  howl  and  add  the 
oil,  1  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  until  very  thick,  beating  hard  with  an 
egg  beater,  then  add  the  lemon,  then  the  other  ingredients.  Keep 
the  eggs  and  oil  in  the  ice  box  an  hour  or  so  before  using. 

BREAD  SAUCE  FOR  BIRDS. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1875. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  2  sliced  onions,  white  pepper- 
corn and  mace.  Simmer,  take  out  onion,  add  cream  or  melted  butter, 
until  thin  as  gravy. 

CAULIFLOWER  SAUCE. 

Mrs.    Morris    R.    Stroud,    Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Put  the  cauliflower  in  boiling  water,  add  a  handful  of  salt,  boil 
until  tender,  then  strain.  Make  a  thick  white  sauce  of  milk,  butter 
and  flour,  pour  over  the  cauliflower  in  a  deep  dish,  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  shaken  over  it,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


VEGETABLES. 


VEGETABLES. 

TO  DRESS  A  DISH  OF  MUSHRUMPS. 

"  This  book  was  written  by  Eleanor  Parke  Custis'  Great  Grand- 
mother, Mrs.  John  Custis,  was  given  to  her  by  her  Beloved  Grand 
Mama  Martha  Washington,   formerly  Mrs.   Daniel  Custis." 

In  the  following  excerpt  selected  from  the  "  Book  of  Cookery  " 
no  changes  in  spelling  or  punctuation  have  been  made. 

From  Mrs.  Washington's  "  Book  of  Cookery,"  owned  by  the 
Pennsylvania  Historical  Society,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1706. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   W.  Hinckle  Smith,    Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Take  ye  firme  mushrumps  and  pill  ye  scin  from  them  and 
scrape  away  all  ye  red  yt  grows  onye  insyde  of  them  and  pill  yr 
stalks  likewise.  If  you  finde  them  firme  throw  them  as  you  doe 
them  into  faire  water  and  let  them  ly  3  or  4  hours,  then  take  them 
out  of  ye  water  and  set  them  on  ye  fire  in  a  pan,  theyr  owne  Liquor 
will  stew  them,  put  in  an  ownion  cut  in  halves  and  often  sticke 
them  as  ye  water  rises  cast  it  still  away  till  you  finde  them  almoste 
dry,  then  take  out  the  ownion  and  put  in  a  little  sweet  cream  yt  is 
thick  and  shred  in  some  parsley  and  put  in  some  grated  nutmegg 
and  a  little  grose  pepper  and  a  little  salt  and  soe  let  them  boyle. 
shaking  them  well  together,  and  put  in  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  giving 
them  another  shake  and  soe  dish  them  up. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATO. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Lucretia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Six  sweet  potatoes  grated  raw,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoonful  black  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  allspice,  small  teacup  sugar, 
small  'y2  teacup  lard,  small  ]/2  teacup  butter,  2  raw  eggs,  small  cup 
milk  or  cream  just  before  baking. 

I5i 


1 52  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ASPARAGUS  LOAF   (MOST  DELICIOUS). 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

Cook  2  tablespoons ful  each  of  butter  and  flour  together,  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  i  cup  of  cream 
gradually.  When  boiling  add  2  tablespoonsful  of  cold  chicken 
chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  cooked  asparagus  tips,  and  4  well  beaten  eggs 
(whites  and  yolks  together).  Turn  into  an  earthen  bowl  or  mould 
holding  1  pint,  thickly  buttered  and  lined  with  asparagus.  Cook 
standing  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  until  the  centre  is  firm.  Do  not 
allow  the  water  around  the  mould  to  boil.  Let  stand  a  few  moments 
after  removing  from  oven,  and  invert  over  a  serving  dish.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce.  Sauce  for  Asparagus  Loaf  —  Half  a  pint  of  milk, 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour,  x/2  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  54  teaspoonfulof  pepper.  Asparagus  tips  and  a  few 
mushrooms  well  chopped  up  and  added  to  the  sauce  are  an  improve- 
ment to  the  flavor. 

COLE    SLAW. 

Used    by    Miss    Elizabeth    Rodman    Fisher,    of    Wakefield, 

Germantown,  i860. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hannah  Fox,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  Y2  pt.  of  vinegar  with  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of 
a  walnut.  Have  beaten  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  to  which  add  Yi  teacup 
of  cream.  Take  the  vinegar  from  the  fire  and  stir  the  eggs  and 
cream  into  it  whilst  it  is  hot,  taking  care  it  does  not  curdle,  then 
put  it  over  the  fire  again  to  cook  it,  stirring  it  always  until  it  is  the 
thickness  of  boiled  custard.  The  cabbage  must  be  shredded  fine 
in  a  dish  and  the  dressing  poured  over  it  hot.  Mix  it  well  through 
the  cabbage;  when  cold  put  it  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served  and  sprinkle  it  with  cayenne  pepper.  Put  salt  in  the  dress- 
ing as  you  like  it. 


VEGETABLES  I53 

STUFFED  RIPE  TOMATOES,  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

Mrs.   Eliza   S.   Brolaski,   St.   Louis,   Mo. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Adelaide  Bragg  Carrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Use  firm  fresh  tomatoes.  Take  only  a  small  core  out  of  the 
middle,  using  a  sharp  pointed  knife  to  loosen  the  meat  of  the  toma- 
toes all  inside.  Then  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  each  tomato  the  size 
of  a  hazel  nut.  Then  cut  in  each  tomato  a  small  piece  of  onion  fine, 
then  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  Paprika  to  taste,  and  a  goodly 
pinch  of  herbs,  then  a  little  more  butter,  and  fill  each  tomato  with 
grated  fresh  bread  crumbs  (not  cracker  dust),  a  little  more  salt  and 
seasoning,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Serve  on  little  plate  garnished 
with  parsley. 

HOMINY  OR  SAMP  PORRIDGE. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Roseniout,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  samp,  2  cups  of  white  beans,  soak  these  over  night.. 
Turkey  carcass,  1  pound  of  salt  pork.  Put  all  together  and  cook 
slowly  all  day.  Keep  covering  with  water.  Remove  bones  and 
flavor  to  taste. 

RICE  AND  PEPPER  — CREOLE  FASHION. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin.    Tex. 

Cook  y2  cup  of  rice  thoroughly  but  dry.  so  that  the  grains  will 
be  separate.  Remove  seed  and  membrane  from  peppers,  and  slice 
crosswise.  Lay  them  in  cold  salted  water  for  10  minutes.  Fry  in 
butter,  chop,  not  too  fine,  add  to  the  hot  butter  a  little  onion  juice 
and  about  2  tablespoons  of  stock  of  any  kind.  Pour  over  the  rice 
and  serve.  Care  must  always  be  taken  to  remove  seed  and  white 
membrane,   so  that  neither  will  touch  the  inside  of  the  pepper. 


154 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


TOMATO  WITH  GELATINE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  W.  Noyes,  Montclair,  N.  J. 

Soak  y2  box  of  gelatine,  drain  the  juice  from  a  pint  of  stewed 
or  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  over  the  fire  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar 
to  taste.  At  the  boiling  point  remove  from  the  fire,  skim  and  add 
to  the  gelatine  together  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Strain 
and  when  half  cold  pour  into  prepared  moulds  and  stand  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  Serve  with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise  dressing.  Ex- 
cellent when  fresh  tomatoes  cannot  be  procured. 

SNAP  BEANS  — CREOLE  FASHION. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,   Tex. 

Simmer  beans  until  tender,  chop  fine.  Brown  a  teaspoon 
minced  onion  in  butter,  add  beans,  salt  and  pepper  and  i  egg  beaten 
well  with  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Stir  quickly  until  thoroughly 
mixed  and  the  egg  sets.     Take  from  fire  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED   PEACHES. 

Mrs.  Celestin  Villeneuve,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans,  La. 

Halve  fruit  and  remove  stones.  Fill  inside  with  a  paste  of 
sugar,  butter  and  cinnamon.  Bake  slowly,  basting  with  a  syrup  of 
lemon  juice.  Cover  with  a  meringue,  brown  and  serve.  May  be 
baked  in  individual  dishes,  and  served  hot  or  cold. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Balding,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Grate  i  dozen  ears  of  corn,  mix  with  i  beaten  egg.  Fry  them 
in  butter,  dropped  in  it  with  a  spoon,  brown  and  turn  them  like  cakes. 


VEGETABLES 


155 


STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS  —  CREOLE  STYLE. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer,  New  Orleans.  La. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,    Tex. 

Cut  a  slice  off  the  stem  end  of  sweet  green  peppers.  Remove 
seed  and  membranes.  Make  a  stuffing  of  shrimp  or  crab,  or  fish. 
with  a  very  little  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  moistened 
with  white  sauce.  Set  in  oven  a  few  moments  and  bake.  If  sweet 
peppers  are  not  obtainable  the  ordinary  green  peppers  may  be  used, 
but  must  be  simmered  in  salt  and  water,  and  then  thrown  in  cold 
water,  always  removing  seed  and  membrane.  Any  kind  of  cold 
meat  makes  an  appetizing  stuffing.  Baste  well  with  melted  butter 
while  baking. 

TO  DRESS  EGG  PLANT. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 

Take  2  large  tender  egg  plants,  boil  them  in  salt  and  water. 
Take  off  the  skin  and  take  out  the  inside.  Mash  fine,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  2  teaspoonsful  of  flour. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  some  boiling  lard,  drop 
them  in  with  a  spoon,  and  fry  them  as  brown  as  you  do  fritters. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 
Mrs.   Frank  Carter,   St.   Louis,   Mo. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Adelaide  Bragg  Carriek,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  good  sized  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  1  egg,  a  little  salt, 
1  tablespoon  lard  and  1  of  sugar.  Beat  until  very  light.  Dis- 
solve 'y2  an  yeast  cake  in  a  cup  of  new  milk  and  add.  Work  in 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  let  it  rise  2  hours.  Roll  and 
cut  with  a  tumbler.  Put  in  a  well  greased  pan  for  another  hour's 
rising  and  eat  hot  or  they  are  not  perfect.  Do  not  let  them  touch 
while  baking.     These  are  delicious  for  lunch  or  tea. 


156  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

HOW  TO  COOK  RICE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  pt.  of  rice,  and  put  it  to  soak  for  2  hours.  Have  ready 
2  qts.  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  in  your  pan.  Half 
an  hour  before  sending  rice  to  table,  pour  the  water  from  your  rice. 
With  a  tablespoon  put  rice  in  stewpan,  being  careful  not  to  stir  it. 
Let  it  boil  10  minutes,  then  strain  water  from  rice.  Return  rice  to 
pan  and  let  it  steam  15  or  20  minutes.  When  it  will  be  done  the 
grains  will  be  separate.     Add  butter  and  serve. 

CREOLE  DISH. 
Mrs.  F.  B.  Loring. 

Contributed  through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Cook  1  cup  of  rice  in  2  qts.  of  salted  boiling  water  for  20  min- 
utes, or  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Drain  and  set  in  a  colander  at 
the  back  of  the  range  to  dry.  Have  ready  2  sweet  green  peppers, 
which  have  been  carefully  seeded,  scalded  and  left  in  the  hot  water 
until  cold.  Chop  them  fine  in  a  saucepan  and  stew  3  raw  toma- 
toes, cut  up  small  and  season  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  salt 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Cook  for  15  minutes,  turn  in  the  rice,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  serve. 

A  TURKISH  PILAU. 

From  the  Turkish  Minister. 

Contributed  through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Put  1  cup  of  stewed  strained  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan,  with  1 
cup  of  stock  highly  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  onion  and 
green  peppers.  Boil  and  add  1  cupful  of  washed  rice,  stirring 
lightly  with  a  fork  until  absorbed,  then  add  small  y2  cup  of  butter. 
Steam  in  a  double  boiler  for  20  minutes.  Remove  the  cover  and 
put  a  folded  napkin  over  the  top  of  boiler  to  allow  the  steam  to 
escape.     Serve  as  a  vegetable  with  cold  cooked  meat  or  poultry. 


VEGETABLES  I57 

BAKED  BEETS. 

New  England.     1736. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Bake  beets  same  as  baked  sweet  potatoes.  While  baking,  turn 
often.  When  done  pare  off  the  skin  and  use  in  every  way  as  boiled. 
They  are  good  cut  lengthwise.  Add  butter,  salt  and  vinegar,  and 
serve  hot. 

TO  MAKE  POLENTA. 
Mrs.  Randolph,  Virginia. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Meta  Lisle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  quart  of  hot  water.  Wet 
your  corn  meal  with  cold  water  in  a  bowl.  Add  some  salt  and 
make  it  quite  smooth.  Then  put  it  in  the  buttered  water  when  it  is 
hot.  Let  it  boil,  stirring  it  continually  until  done.  As  soon  as  you 
can  handle  it  make  it  into  a  ball  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Then 
cut  it  in  thin  slices,  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  so  as  to 
cover  it,  put  on  it  slices  of  cheese,  then  bits  of  butter,  then  mush, 
then  cheese,  then  butter  until  the  dish  is  full.  Bake  in  quick  oven 
for  20  or  30  minutes.     Cheese  and  butter  should  be  on  top. 

PERFECT  ITALIAN  MACARONI  DISH. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   W.  Hincklc  Smith.  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  the  macaroni  one  hour  and  quarter  in  salt  and  water,  until 
the  macaroni  falls  apart  when  lifted  or  pierced  by  the  fork.  Put 
a  layer  of  macaroni  in  a  shallow  dish,  sprinkle  grated  cheese,  pepper 
and  salt  over  it,  and  add  pats  of  butter.  Put  another  layer  of  maca- 
roni on  top  of  this,  adding,  cheese,  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  as  before. 
Then  fill  the  dish  as  full  as  it  will  hold  with  milk.  Bake  a  light 
crusty  brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  hot.  The  secret  of  the  success 
lies  in  the  boiling,  and  if  it  is  not  very  tender,  it  should  boil  another 
15  minutes.     This  will  be  a  revelation  to  lovers  of  good  macaroni. 


i58  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

RICE  AND  CABBAGE.     DELICIOUS! 
Mrs.  F.  H.  Loring. 

Contributed  through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

One  small  head  or  as  much  cabbage  as  will  fill  a  dish  one  third 
full,  ij4  cups  of  cooked  rice,  y2  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  x/z  cup  of  butter,  i~y2  pints  of  milk.  Cut  cabbage  in  1  inch 
pieces,  removing  all  hard  stalks.  Put  on  to  boil,  add  salt,  cook 
until  done  but  not  boiled  up.  Have  ready  the  rice  which  has  been 
boiled  in  well  salted  water.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  butter, 
flour  and  hot  milk.  Drain  the  cabbage  and  rice,  grease  a  pan  or 
baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  cabbage  and  rice,  then  a  layer  of  sauce, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  the  last  layer  of  sauce. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  P.  Searle,  Boston,  Mass. 

Soak  1  qt.  of  beans  over  night,  pour  off  the  water  and  cook  in 
fresh  water  until  they  crack  open.  Then  put  into  a  deep  earthen 
dish  and  cover  with  the  water.  Add  one  third  of  a  cup  of  molasses, 
put  into  centre  of  the  dish  a  'j4  lb.  of  parboiled  pork,  which  should  be 
scored  across  the  rind.  Bake  very  slowly  4  hours,  keep  nearly  cov- 
ered with  water  until  two  thirds  done,  then  let  them  bake  brown. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Charles  P.  Searle,  Boston,  Mass. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn  grated,  y2  pt.  of  milk,  a  little  sugar,  a 
little  salt.     Bake  1  hour. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  T.  Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  10  ears  of  corn  grated,  add  salt  and  a  little  cream,  4  eggs 
beaten  light,  34  lb-  butter  and  a  little  wheat  flour.     Bake  2  hours. 


VEGETABLES 


159 


ESCALLOPED  ONIONS. 

New  England.      1750. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Slice  onions  as  for  frying,  cook  them  in  water  a  few  minutes, 
turn  off  water  and  put  a  layer  of  onions  in  baking  pan,  add  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs,  season  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and 
cream  or  milk.  Put  them  in  the  oven  and  let  them  brown.  These 
are  very  good;  try  them  if  you  have  any  doubt. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE. 

Miss  Sarah  Rutledge,  Charleston,  S.  C. 

One  qt.  of  grated  potato,  Y\  lb.  sugar,  10  oz.  of  butter,  l/2  pt.  of 
milk,  3  tablespoonsful  of  powdered  ginger,  the  grated  peel  of  an 
orange.  Rub  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  shallow 
plate  in  a  slow  oven. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE.  No.  2. 

Miss  Sarah  Rutledge,  Charleston,  S.  C. 

Peel  and  grate  2  moderate  sized  sweet  potatoes.  Pour  over 
them  nearly  a  pint  of  cold  water,  add  4  large  spoons  of  brown  sugar, 
1  large  spoon  of  butter.  Season  with  ginger  to  the  taste.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  3  hours.  The  potatoes  must  be  grated 
raw  in  both  these  receipts. 

MOCK  OYSTERS  OF  CORN. 

One  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  grate  off  the  grain,  mix  with  the 
grated  corn  2  large  tablespoons  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Let 
all  be  well  beaten  and  mixed.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have 
ready  a  pan  with  an  equal  portion  of  lard  and  butter,  put  on  the 
fire  and  let  boil,  then  drop  in  a  spoonful  of  batter,  as  near  the  size 
of  oysters  as  possible.  They  should  be  nearly  an  inch  thick  and 
fried  brown. 


160  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

IRISH  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,   Va. 

Six  oz.  butter,  6  oz.  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  lb.  mashed  potatoes,  sea- 
son with  a  little  mace,  and  place  in  pudding  dish  greased.  Eaten 
with  a  cold  sauce  of  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  seasoned  with  nut- 
meg.    Eaten  hot.     This  pudding  is  enough  for  eight  people. 

CORN  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Councill,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

One  pt.  grated  corn,  J/2  cup  of  flour,  %  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs, 
1  dessertspoon  melted  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  add  the 
yolks  to  the  corn,  and  then  milk,  then  flour  and  salt.  Beat  well, 
then  stir  in  carefully  the  well  beaten  whites.      Cook  on  hot  griddle. 

A   BREAKFAST   DISH   AT   THE   FAMOUS   OLD   PLANTA- 
TION,  "CHACHAU,"   NEAR   CHARLESTON,   S.   C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Stevens,  Charleston,  S.  C. 

Into  a  quart  of  soft  boiled  rice,  not  steamed,  mix  a  can  of  toma- 
toes. Cut  up  through  the  whole  slices  of  salt  pork.  Turn  all  out 
in  a  frying  pan  until  the  pork  is  clear  and  the  rice  and  tomatoes 
rather  crisp.  One  or  2  red  finger  peppers  add  to  the  flavor  and 
appearance  of  the  dish. 


SALADS. 


ir 


SALADS. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Norman  V.  Randolph,  Richmond,   Va. 

Boil  8  medium  sized  potatoes  thoroughly  done  and  mash  well. 
Cream  them  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  yolk  of  1  r.aw  egg. 
Take  4  small  cucumber  pickles  and  chop  very  fine  with  1  small  raw 
onion.  Stir  this  in  the  tomatoes  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  little 
pepper.  Pour  in  a  y2  teacup  pickle  vinegar.  Mix  all  well  and  put 
into  a  salad  dish  lined  with  celery  stalks,  and  slice  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  over  the  top.  To  be  served 
very  cold. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   John   Poe,  Baltimore,  Md. 

One  half  small  onion  chopped  very  fine,  ]/2  doz.  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley chopped  fine,  4  tablespoons ful  olive  oil;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y\  cup  of  sour  cream  or  2  of  sweet,  very  little  red  pepper,  4  table- 
spoonsful  vinegar.  Rub  onion,  parsley  and  oil,  then  add  other  in- 
gredients. Boil  potatoes,  skinned,  in  salt,  and  chop  for  salad. 
This  dressing  is  good  for  any  moderate  quantity  of  potatoes. 

POTATO   SALAD. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga, 

From  "Favorite  Recipes  of  Savannah  Homes,"  Through  the  Cour- 
tesy of  a  Savannah   Lady. 

Boil  white  potatoes  and  let  them  get  cold.     Peel,  salt  and  pep 
per  them.     Wet  l/2  teaspoonful  mustard  with  2  tablespoons  vinegar 
and   heaping  tablespoon   butter,   and  yolks  of  3   eggs,   whipped   up, 
just  before  they  are  put  in;  add  this  seasoning  to  potatoes   (which 
have  been  sliced  thin),  just  before  dinner  is  served. 

163 


1 64  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CALVES  HEAD  SALAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Foe,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bone,  remove  the 
brains  entirely.  Cut  up  the  tongue,  the  meat  and  the  soft  gristle, 
raking  care  to  remove  the  little  bones;  season  well  with  pepper  and 
salt,  chopped  parsley  and  celery  seed  or  fresh  celery.  Put  in  the 
mould  with  the  stock  made  from  boiling  down  the  water  used  to 
boil  the  head  in.  Set  it  away  and  it  will  congeal,  and  serve  with 
or  without  mayonnaise.  Let  as  little  fat  as  possible  be  used.  Gar- 
nish your  dish  with  lettuce  or  any  attractive  green  salad. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

From   "  Favorite  Recipes  from  Savannah  Homes,"   Courtesy  of  a 

Savannah  Lady. 

Pare  and  cut  about  a  quart  of  Irish  potatoes ;  boil  in  salted  water 
and  cool;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  I  of  onion  juice ; 
moisten  with  either  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  and  put  away  in  a  cool 
place  for  several  hours  before  serving  time.     Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

CRAB  SALAD  SERVED  IN  TOMATOES. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Lucretia  Lennig,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  dozen  boiled  and  picked  crabs.  1 2  large  tomatoes,  ^2  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  1  cup  mayonnaise,  1  head  lettuce,  2  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Mix  crab  with  mayonnaise  and  seasonings.  Cut  out  the 
center  of  tomatoes  and  fill  with  crab,  and  put  a  slice  of  egg  on  each. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

Drain  1  can  of  asparagus  tips,  throw  into  cold  water,  drain 
again  immediately  and  wipe  dry.  Put  into  a  salad  bowl  and  pour 
wer  it  French  dressing. 


SALADS  165 

TURKEY   SALAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Norman   V.  Randolph,  Richmond,   Va. 

A  turkey  weighing  8  or  10  lbs.  will  make  1  gallon  salad.  Clear 
meat  of  fat  and  sinew,  and  cut  into  pieces  ]/2  inch  square.  Same 
quantity  of  celery  cut,  salt  to  taste.  Dressing  for  Salad  —  Yolks 
of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoons  dry  mustard,  9  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  6  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt ;  mix  egg,  mustard 
and  salt  together  with  beaten  yolk  of  1  raw  egg.  Add  oil  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  and  lastly  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth. 

GRAPE   FRUIT   SALAD. 

Peel  the  grape  fruit  and  separate  into  sections,  split  the  mem- 
brane so  that  the  pulp  of  the  fruit  can  be  extracted,  separate  into 
small  bits  and  put  into  nest  of  crisp  lettuce.  Serve  with  either  may- 
onnaise or  French  dressing. 


ICE  CREAM. 


ICE  CREAM. 

ICE  CREAM. 

"  Aunt   Parsons'." 

Contributed  by  Miss  Pauline  Johnson,  Stratford,  Pa. 

Scald  i  qt.  of  good  rich  cream,  beat  3  eggs,  and  stir  in  while  it 
is  hot,  sweeten  to  your  taste  with  loaf  sugar,  stir  in  the  peel  of  2 
or  3  lemons  grated,  while  hot,  also.  Strain  the  whole  through  a 
sieve,  and  when  cold  add  enough  lemon  juice  to  make  it  a  pleasant 
acid,  generally  2  or  3  lemons.  Put  in  a  freezer  made  water-tight, 
fill  with  a  layer  of  powdered  ice  and  salt  till  nearly  full.  Cover 
the  whole  to  exclude  the  air.  It  will  freeze  in  4  or  5  hours.  If  the 
cream  is  good,  it  will  not  flake  if  it  is  not  stirred  once  in  the  freezer. 

STILL-FROZEN  ICE  CREAM. 

Mrs.  Cadwalader  Jones,  Bar  Harbor  (1885). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Maim,  Pa. 

One  qt.  strawberries  (or  any  fruit)  1  pt.  sugar,  mash  well  to- 
gether. Put  through  a  strainer  and  add  1  qt.  thick  cream,  mixing 
it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Put  in  a  mould  and  wrap  the  mould 
in  a  towel  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  5  hours. 

FROZEN  COFFEE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  S.  Nandain  Duer,  Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Three  pts.  cream,  1  qt.  fresh  milk,  1  pt.  sugar,  1  teacup  strong 
drip  coffee,  1  tablespoon  arrowroot  dissolved  in  a  y2  cup  of  cold 
water.  Put  on  in  saucepan  the  milk  and  1  pt.  cream.  When  hot 
add  sugar,  coffee  and  arrowroot.  Let  boil  until  thickened  to  con- 
sistency of  custard,  stirring  all  the  time.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold,  stir  in  remaining  quart  of  cream.     Then  freeze. 

169 


lyo  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FROZEN  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Clara  Pollard  Lee,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

One  pt.  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  1  scant  cup  flour,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons gelatine,  1  qt.  of  cream,  1  lb.  of  candied  fruits,  4  tablespoons 
of  wine.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  flour  and  eggs  with  1  cup 
of  sugar  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  20  minutes.  Add 
gelatine  which  has  been  thoroughly  soaked  in  a  little  water.  Set 
away  to  cool,  then  add  the  other  sugar,  cream  and  wine.  Freeze  10 
minutes,  then  add  fruit  and  finish  freezing.  Set  away  for  an  hour 
or  two,  that  the  fruit  may  ripen. 

CHERRY  MOUSSE. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Dana,  West  Roxbury,  Mass.   (1885). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

To  1  pt.  of  thick  cream  add  3  tablespoons ful  sugar,  1  cup  of 
cherry  juice  and  2  drops  extract  bitter  almond.  Chill  on  the  ice, 
then  whip  stiff,  put  in  a  mould  tightly  covered  and  bury  in  ice  and 
sajt  for  3  hours. 

MOUSSE. 

Miss  Flora  Hartley,  The  Grammercy,  New  York. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Whip  1  pt.  cream  and  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten,  "f/2  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  coffee  or  any  flavor.  Pour  into  moulds,  and  pack  in 
layers  of  salt  and  ice;  stand  4  hours. 

ENGLISH  FROZEN  PUDDING. 

Bessie  Fraser,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Pour  a  rich  boiled  custard  over  cold  boiled  rice,  and  beat  to- 
gether with  plenty  of  orange  juice.  Freeze  in  a  brick,  and  when 
turned  out  place  on  top  quartered  oranges. 


ICE  CREAM 


171 


TO  MAKE  GERMAN  OR  VANILLA  CREAM. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwcdader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  qt.  of  very  thick  sweet  fresh  cream,  well  beaten  in  a 
pan,  as  yon  would  eggs,  till  it  is  quite  thick,  to  which  add  vanilla 
and  loaf  sugar  to  your  taste ;  then  vanilla  bean  must  be  well  pulver- 
ized and  minced  with  the  sugar  before  you  put  it  into  the  cream. 
Then  freeze. 

TO  MAKE  THREE  QUARTS  OF  CREAM. 

Mrs.  Rodney  of  Germantown. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick,  Germantown,  Philadelphia, 
Pa,     Her  Great-Granddaughter. 

Take  3  quarts  of  fresh  sweet  cream,  rub  the  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon 
with  loaf  sugar;  then  flavor  your  cream  with  this  and  sweeten  to 
your  taste  with  powdered  sugar.  Put  into  your  freezer  and  cover 
close,  then  set  in  a  deep  bucket  with  ice  and  salt  around  it.  The  ice 
should  be  broken  in  small  pieces,  then  put  layer  of  ice  and  one  of 
salt.  Then  churn  and  stir  until  frozen.  One  quart  will  serve  ten 
glasses ;  3  quarts  will  do  for  a  company  of  thirty. 


ICES,   PUNCHES,  SHERBETS, 
BEVERAGES,  AND  WINES. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC, 

THE  ART  OF  SERVING  WINE. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Paul  Garrett,  Norfolk,  Va. 

From  time  immemorial,  wine  has  stood  for  the  pledge  of 
friendship  and  good  fellowship. 

To-day,  more  than  ever,  the  serving  of  light  wines  has  an  estab- 
lished place  in  social  usage. 

A  glass  of  wine  and  a  wafer  makes  the  ideal  repast  for  the 
afternoon  gathering  of  ladies.  The  informal  call,  the  evening  party, 
the  birthday  table,  the  picnic  or  the  lawn  party,  the  wedding  and  the 
christening,  not  to  mention  the  formal  dinner  —  on  every  occasion 
sacred  to  the  home  where  friend  greets  friend  in  social  intercourse, 
pure  light  wines  have  their  recognized  place. 

In  this  country  this  is  true  to-day  more  so  than  ever  before, 
because  the  American  people  are  just  waking  up  to  the  fact  that  here 
at  home  are  raised  the  best  grapes  in  the  world  —  grapes  that  by 
improved  processes  are  being  converted  into  wines  of  unquestioned 
purity  and  wholesomeness. 

"  Virginia  Dare,"  "  Pocahontas  "  and  "  Minnehaha  "  are  the 
lightest  of  wines  —  clear,  pure  and  with  a  clean,  fresh,  natural  flavor 
delightful  to  the  taste.  Besides  adding  zest  to  the  meal,  they  form 
an  important  supply  of  food  for  the  nerves  —  food  just  as  impor- 
tant as  that  which  goes  to  the  building  up  of  bone  and  muscle. 

"  How  to  Serve  Wine  "  is  a  question  of  greater  or  less  com- 
plexity, as  the  occasion  is  formal  or  informal.  On  an  informal  occa- 
sion, perhaps,  only  one  wine  will  be  served,  the  taste  of  the  guests, 
of  course,  deciding  the  variety.  If  they  be  accustomed  to  the  dry 
imported  wines  of  Northern  Europe,  such  as  Rhine  Wine,  Moselle, 
or  Sauterne,  a  bottle  of  Minnehaha  should  be  served. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  guests  have  no  acquired  tastes,  noth- 

175 


176  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ing  can  excel  Virginia  Dare  or  Pocahontas.  Being  so  delicate  and 
fruity  in  flavor,  these  wines  invariably  find  enthusiastic  devotees  in 
the  ladies. 

In  serving  wines  for  a  large  formal  dinner,  there  is  much 
variation  of  ideas.  It  is  a  matter  of  taste  rather  than  of  rule. 
There  is,  however,  a  logical  sequence  that  is  usually  followed : 

White  wines  with  oysters    (Minnehaha,    Sauterne  or  Moselle). 

Yellow   wines   with   soup    (Virginia   Dare,   Sherry   or  Tokay). 

Red  wines  with  roasts  and  game  (Pocahontas,  Port,  F.  F.  V. 
Claret,  Burgundy  or  Hiawatha  —  a  red  sparkling  wine). 

Sweet  wines  with  dessert  (Pocahontas,  Virginia  Dare,  Port, 
Madeira  or  Southern  Sunshine). 

After  dinner,  before  coffee,  old  Ports,  Madeiras,  Sherries  or 
Champagne. 

Champagne  any  time  after  soup,  although  strictly  speaking  it 
is  an  after-dinner  wine. 

Champagne  is  the  ideal  table  wine.    .  • 

When  Sherries  are  used,  an  old  dry  quality  with  nutty  flavor 
is  served  with  oysters,  while  a  richer  one  should  be  used  before 
coffee. 

If  both  Claret  and  Burgundy  are  desired,  serve  the  Claret  with 
the  entree,  Burgundy  with  the  roast. 

WINE  CAUTIONS. 
Contributed  by  Mr.  Paul  Garrett,  Norfolk,   Va. 

Dry  wines  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  the  bottles  laid 
on  their  sides,  so  that  the  moisture  will  render  the  cork  thoroughly 
air-tight.  This  is  not  necessary,  however,  when  the  bottles  are 
sealed  with  other  devices,  as,  for  instance,  the  Garrett  Cap  and 
Crown. 

All  old  still  wines  —  Claret,  Sauterne,  Sherry,  Port,  Madeira 
- —  should  be  decanted  when  they  have  been  in  bottles  a  sufficient 
time  to  precipitate. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  177 

In  England,  gentlemen  decant  their  own  wines;  it  is  very 
simple,  but  must  be  done  carefully. 

Stand  the  bottles  upright  24  hours  before  decanting,  first 
loosening  the  cork.  When  ready,  draw  the  cork,  hold  the  bottle 
to  the  light  and  pour  slowly  into  the  decanter,  until  the  sediment 
begins  to  move.  The  decanted  wine  will  then  be  perfectly  clear  and 
bright. 

Burgundies  by  custom  are  often  served  from  the  original  bot- 
tles, but  it  is  better  to  decant  all  still  wines  just  before  using. 

It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  only  the  fortified  wines, 
or  those  to  which  alcohol  has  been  added,  will  keep  for  any  time 
after  being  exposed  to  the  air.  The.  fortified  wines  are  Sherry, 
Tokay,  Port  and  Madeira.  Many  other  foreign  wines  are  fortified 
to  a  sufficient  extent  to  stand  exportation,  rendering  them  strongly 
alcoholic.  For  this  reason  it  is  better  for  Americans  to  drink  the 
wines  of  their  own  country.  There  being  no  need  to  export,  there  is 
no  temptation  to  fortify  and  render  them  intoxicating.  Scupper- 
nong  products  are  the  lightest  and  most  delicate  in  the  world,  con- 
taining a  minimum  of  alcohol  and  are  rich  in  the  health-giving 
properties  of  the  grape. 

Clarets  and  Burgundies  should  be  served  at  a  temperature  of 
about  65  to  70  degrees,  generally  obtained  by  keeping  the  bottles 
in  the  dining-room  several  hours  before  serving. 

White  wines  (Virginia  Dare,  Minnehaha,  Rhine,  Sauterne, 
Moselle,  Reisling)  should  be  cooled,  but  not  thoroughly  chilled,  to 
about  40  to  50  degrees. 

Sherry  and  Port  should  not  be  too  cold,  for  if  they  are  chilled 
they  will  cloud. 

Madeiras  are  best  at  about  65  degrees.  "  Extra  Dry  "  Cham- 
pagne cannot  be  too  cold  —  the  nearer  to  frappe  the  better. 

"  Brut  "  Champagne  should  be  chilled,  but  too  low  a  tempera- 
ture makes  it  acid  and  rough.     Freezing  kills  it  entirely. 

Remember,  that  if  a  variety  of  wines  is  to  be  used,  a  very  little 
of  each  is  required. 


178  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ETIQUETTE  OF  THE  WINE  GLASS. 
Contributed  by  Mr.  Paul  Garrett,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Each  place  at  table  should  be  supplied  with  all  the  glasses  to 
be  used  during  the  dinner. 

There  are,  in  general,  four  varieties : 

The  Claret  Glass  is  used  for  all  still  wines.  With  white  wines 
a  delicately  tinted  ruby  glass  is  sometimes  used  with  pretty  effect. 
For  red  wines  the  glass  must  always  be  colorless. 

The  Sherry  Glass  is  used  exclusively  for  Sherry.  There  are 
numberless  designs,  both  in  plain  glass  and  cut  glass,  but  the  gen- 
eral shape  is  always  the  same.  Round  base,  slender  stem,  plain 
or  ornamental  —  bowl ,  lily  shaped  —  the  whole  effect  being  very 
graceful  and  delicate. 

The  Wine  Glass  is  very  much  like  the  Claret  Glass  in  shape, 
but  smaller.  It  is  used  for  Port,  Madeira,  and  heavy  fortified 
wines.  This  is  the  glass  which  should  be  used  in  the  serving  of 
wine  at  an  afternoon  gathering  or  as  an  informal  evening  refresh- 
ment. 

Champagne  Glasses  are  of  three  kinds,  the  selection  being 
largely  a  matter  of  taste. 

The  "  Saucer "  Champagne  is  perhaps  the  most  popular  glass 
just  now.     It  has  a  thin  stem  and  a  wide  shallow  bowl. 

The  "  Fountain  "  Champagne  will  always  be  preferred  by  most. 
It  has  a  hollow  stem  and  deep  bowl.  The  wine,  effervescing  from 
the  stem,  creates  a  miniature  fountain  in  the  center  of  the  glass, 
with  very  pretty  effect. 

The  Champagne  Tumbler  is  a  glass  preferred  principally  by 
gentlemen,  who  are  sometimes  inclined  to  scorn  the  esthetic  and 
who  care  less  for  beautiful  effects. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  179 

JOHN   DABNEY'S    MINT   J.ULEP. 

Richmond,  Va. 

This  famous  receipt  has  a  history  well  worth  recording  of 
"the  man  and  his  julep."  John  Dabney  was  the  famous  old  negro 
caterer  of  Richmond  until  a  few  years  ago.  John  was  a  very 
remarkable  character,  and  in  personality  most  striking,  combining 
as  he  did  some  of  the  Indian  with  his  negro  antecedents.  He  was 
a  slave  of  a  prominent  Virginia  family,  who  had  consented  to  set 
John  free  some  years  before  the  war.  John  had  almost  finished 
paying  for  his  freedom  by  his  thrift  and  determination  when  war 
came.  After  Mr.  Lincoln's  proclamation  his  master  said,  "  John, 
you  are  free,"  and  wished  him  good  luck,  and  John  started  life  for 
himself  as  a  caterer  in  Richmond.  He  soon  had  a  small  bank  ac- 
count. Meantime  war  had  left  his  master's  family  in  reduced  cir- 
cumstances —  his  master  dead.  Taking  the  amount  that  was  still 
due  his  old  master,  had  war  not  settled  the  account  in  a  different 
way,  John  Dabney  went  to  his  mistress  and  begged  she  would 
accept  what  he  believed  to  be  rightfully  hers.  Thomas  Nelson  Page 
hearing  of  the  incident  embodied  it  in  one  of  his  most  character- 
istic bits  of  the  old  South.  General  Maury  meeting  John  Dabney 
on  the  streets  of  Richmond  a  few  days  afterwards  extended  his 
hand  and  said,  "  John,  I  have  just  been  reading  what  Mr.  Page 
says  about  you,  and  John  you  are  a  gentleman."  Taking  off  his 
hat  with  that  well-bred  courtesy  that  the  negro  of  the  past  had,  and 
the  negro  of  the  present  has  not,  he  said,  "  Thanky,  General,  that's 
what  I  tries  to  be,  sar."  The  young  men  of  the  different  clubs  in 
Richmond  had  presented  John  with  two  very  handsome  silver  loving 
cups  appropriately  inscribed.  John  was  very  proud  of  these,  and 
when  he  wanted  to  confer  an  especial  honor  one  of  these  cups  was 
sent  filled  to  the  brim  with  one  of  his  juleps.  One  morning  at  the 
Old  White  there  was  a  knock  at  my  door  just  before  breakfast.  In 
answer,    there   stood    one  of  John's   assistants    with   one   of  John's 


180  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

cups  filled  to  the  brim  with  John's  julep,  which  he  presented  with 
John  Dabney's  compliments.     On  the  top  rested  a  pink  rose. 

Here  is  what  composed  this  beverage:  Crushed  ice,  as  much 
as  you  can  pack  in  and  sugar,  mint  bruised,  and  put  in  with  the 
ice,  then  your  good  whiskey,  and  the  top  surmounted  by  more  mint, 
a  strawberry,  a  cherry,  a  slice  of  pineapple,  or,  as  John  expressed  it, 
"  Any  other  little  fixings  you  like."  On  mine  was  the  pink  rose. 
I  pinned  on  the  rose,  drank  some  of  that  never-to-be-forgotten 
juelp.  Had  I  drunk  half,  I  would  have  never  danced  my  morning 
german.  Then  I  went  with  my  father  to  seek  John  and  express 
my  appreciation  of  the  honor.  I  found  him  at  the  door  of  his 
sanctum.  With  a  most  profound  bow  he  received  my  thanks. 
"Yes,  mam,"  he  said,  "I  always  was  mighty  fond  of  your  Pa,  the 
General."  Here's  to  you,  John  Dabney !  Would  there  were  others 
of  your  race  to  follow  in  your  footsteps. —  Sue  Mason  Maury  Hal- 
sey> — (Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey). 

LALLA  ROOKH  PUNCH.     A  FAMOUS  RECIPE. 

Mrs.  James  Thomas. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  quart  of  cream,  5  eggs,  put  yolks  in  saucepan  with  a  heap- 
ing teacup  of  granulated  sugar.  Let  it  cook  a  little,  stirring,  set 
aside  to  cool,  then  put  in  a  custard  glass  of  brandy,  a  dash  of  rum, 
then  add  whipped  cream,  and  last  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 
Season  with  nutmeg.  Use  rock  salt  to  freeze.  This  will  serve  9 
persons. 

CLARET    CUP. 

Somerset  Club,  Boston   (1880). 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Charles  P.  Searle,  Boston,  Mass. 

One  qt.  claret,  large  lump  of  ice,  3  pieces  of  cucumber  rind 
left  in  for  three  minutes,  1  sherry  glass  Maraschino  added  after  the 
cucumber  is  taken  out. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  181 

BALTIMORE    TEA    PUNCH. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  IV.  Hinckle  Smith. 

Juice  of  12  lemons.  Put  the  skins  in  a  pitcher  and  pour  on 
them  i  qt.  of  boiling  tea  (made  of  green  and  black  mixed,  3  or  4 
teaspoonsful  of  each).  Let  it  stand  10  minutes,  add  il/2  lbs.  sugar 
and  1  qt.  of  old  Jamaica  rum.  Strain  and  bottle,  corking  very 
tightly,  and  it  will  keep  6  months  in  a  cool  place.  Do  not  let  the 
tea  draw  until  it  becomes  bitter,  and  if  you  like  it  very  sweet  add 
more  sugar.  Serve  in  a  bowl  with  crushed  ice.  Makes  nearly 
3  qts.  Should  be  made  at  once,  and  allowed  to  stand  well  corked. 
English  breakfast  tea  can  be  used. 

RUM  TODDY. 

Van  Cortlandt  Recipe,  Van  Cortlandt  Manor,  N.  Y.   (1775). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Byrn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

Put  in  a  punch  bowl  1  bottle  old  Antigua  rum,  2l/2  bottles 
water,  34  tumbler  lump  sugar,  and  the  yellow  peel  of  three  lemons. 
Let  the  peel  remain  in  the  mixture  20  minutes,  stirring  slowly  so 
that  the  sugar  dissolves  well,  and  the  oil  from  the  lemon  peel  flavors 
the  toddy.  Take  out  the  peel,  let  the  toddy  stand  for  about  20 
minutes  before  using,  then  add  a  lump  of  ice  the  size  of  two  fists, 
and  serve. 

FRUIT   PUNCH. 
General  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia,   Pa. 

One  qt.  of  rum,  y2  tumbler  of  peach  brandy,  the  skin  of  3 
lemons,  J/2  tumbler  of  water,  1  lemon  and  4  peaches  sliced.  Put 
the  whole  into  a  bowl  and  cover  with  a  cloth.  It  should  be  made 
2  days  before  using.  If  peaches  are  not  in  season  a  box  of  Guava 
jelly  or  pineapple  is  a  good  substitute.  Set  the  bowl  in  ice  1  hour 
before  the  feast  begins.      O  Moses !  ! 


1 82  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

A  Physician's  Recipe  for  Diarrhcea. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Wash  the  berries,  boil  them  a  few  minutes  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  when  cool  strain  them  through  a  thin  cloth.  To  every  quart 
of  juice  add  ]/i  lb.  of  loaf  sugar,  %.  oz.  of  nutmeg,  *4  oz-  oi  allspice, 
54  oz.  of  powdered  cinnamon.  Boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes 
and  when  cold  stir  in  'y2  pint  of  best  French  brandy  and  seal  it 
securely  in  bottles. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Fill  a  jar  with  red  raspberries,  pour  in  as  much  vinegar  as  it 
will  hold.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  mash  the  ber- 
ries and  squeeze  through  a  coarse  bag.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add 
i  lb.  of  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes,  skim  and  bottle.  This  will  make 
a  thick  syrup  which  must  be  diluted  when  drunk. 

STRAWBERRY    ACID  — A    SPLENDID   RECEIPT. 
Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Richmond,  Va. 

Put  12  lbs.  of  ripe  strawberries  in  a  large  bowl,  cover  with 
3  pts.  of  water  acidulated  with  5  oz.  of  tartaric  acid.  Let  it  stand 
48  hours.  Pour  all  into  a  sieve  and  let  it  drip  without  bruising 
the  fruit.  To  each  pt.  of  clear  juice  add  3  oz.  of  sugar.  Let  it 
stand  open  2  days  and  bottle,  putting  in  the  corks  lightly  at  first. 

CLARET  ICE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Eight  lemons,  rind  of  2  grated,  2^  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  quart  of 
Virginia  Claret,  2  quarts  of  water.  When  about  to  freeze  stir  in 
the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  light. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  ^3 

CREME  DE  MENTHE. 

Contributed  by  Airs.  Judge  L.   L.  Lewis,  Richmond,   Va. 

Fill  1  qt.  jar  with  fresh  mint  leaves  and  pour  over  them  il/2  pts. 
of  deodorized  alcohol.  Let  this  stand  for  3  hours  —  not  longer  — 
shaking  occasionally.  During  this  time  make  a  syrup  of  1  qt.  of 
granulated  sugar  and  1  qt.  of  hot  water  mixed  well  together  and 
boiled  a  few  minutes.  This  syrup  should  be  double  the  quantity  of 
alcohol  and  not  too  thick.  Strain  alcohol  into  a  pitcher  and  pour 
the  syrup  after  it  has  been  cooled  into  it.  Do  not  pour  the  alcohol 
into  the  syrup  but  pour  the  syrup  into  the  alcohol. 

KOUMYSS. 

Mrs.  James  Meeks,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Take  1  qt.  of  milk,  iy2  tablespoons  of  Loerland's  malt  and  2 
tablespoons  of  brewer's  yeast.  Strain  yeast,  mix  the  malt,  yeast 
and  a  little  of  the  milk  until  thoroughly  blended,  then  put  in  dish 
with  a  lip,  or  a  pitcher,  cover  it,  and  set  to  rise  as  one  would  sponge 
for  bread.  When  carbonic  acid  gas  begins  to  form,  bubbles  appear 
on  top,  stir  it  well  and  pour  in  lager  beer  bottles.  Cork  and  lay 
the  bottles  on  their  sides  in  a  cool  place.  If  brewer's  or  home-made 
yeast  cannot  be  had,  use  l/>  a  cake  of  Fleischmann's  yeast  to  a  qt.  of 
milk. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Wash  the  berries  and  to  every  gallon  put  3  qts.  of  water. 
Steam  through  a  bag  and  sieve.  To  every  gallon  of  the  mixture 
put  2V2  lbs.  of  white  sugar.  Let  it  stand  48  hours  in  a  large  tub 
and  skim  off  what  rises,  stirring  once  a  day.  Put  into  a  cask  not 
quite  full  and  close,  then  bung  and  seal.  Age  improves  it.  Two 
buckets  of  blackberries  will  make  5  gallons. 


1 84  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OLD  VIRGINIA  EGGNOG. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  J.  C.  D alley,  Elkins,  West  Va. 

Twelve  eggs,  iy2  pints  best  whiskey,  3  gills  best  rum  (Cognac 
brandy,  fair  substitute),  1  well  rounded  tablespoon  granulated  sugar 
to  each  egg,  1  quart  of  milk  or  cream,  beat  the  yolks  light,  •  add 
sugar  and  beat  light,  add  whiskey,  rum,  milk,  beat  light,  put  in 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  This  recipe  is  fairly  mild.  For  men 
increase  liquor  to  1  quart  of  whiskey,  1  pint  of  rum.  One  drop  of 
oil  of  cinnamon  improves  this  for  some  people.  Never  add  liquor 
after  cream  or  milk;  this  will  ruin  your  eggnog. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  EGGNOG. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   James  T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Beat  12  eggs  separately,  add  to  the  yolks  1  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  to  every  egg,  beating  all  the  time.  When  very  light 
stir  rapidly  in  1  pint  of  brandy  and  1  pint  of  whiskey,  if  more 
liquor  is  desired  it  can  be  added  before  the  cream.  Now  stir  in 
half  of  the  well  beaten  whites,  then  3  pints  of  rich  cream  or  1  pint 
of  milk  and  2  of  cream,  then  stir  in  lightly  the  remaining  whites. 
A  little  nutmeg  grated  is  an  improvement.  Be  careful  never  to  add 
liquor  after  cream. 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia. 

One  pint  juice,  1  lb.  white  sugar,  ^  oz.  powdered  cinnamon, 
z4  oz.  mace,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  1  glass  of  best  French  brandy  to 
every  pint  of  the  mixture.  Procure  perfectly  ripe  blackberries,  put 
them  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  over  the  fire,  let  them  remain  until 
they  break  in  pieces,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Boil  all  except 
brandy  15  minutes  stirring  occasionally,  then  strain  again  and  add 
brandy.     Bottle  and  seal  tight.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  185 

PRESIDENT  CLEVELAND'S  RECIPE  FOR  SHERRY 

COBBLER. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts,  Bryn  Maivr,  Pa. 

Two  tumblers  of  water,  in  each  is  dissolved  15  pieces  of  cut 
sugar.  Juice  of  4  lemons,  juice  of  2  oranges  with  the  pulp.  After 
the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  pour  it  into  the  punch  bowl  and 
add  lemon  juice  and  stir  thoroughly,  then  add  a  few  slices  of  lemon 
peel,  and  the  orange,  stirring  briskly  all  the  time.  One  and  one- 
half  pt.  sherry  is  poured  or  dropped  slowly  into  the  bowl,  and 
then  is  set  aside  until  sufficient  ice  is  powdered  like  snow,  then  add 
slowly  to  the  mixture.  Last  of  all  add  a  lemon  and  2  oranges  cut 
as  thin  as  possible  and  dropped  from  the  knife  into  the  bowl,  after 
which  stir  for  a  few  minutes  with  a  silver  spoon. 

FINE  APPLE  TODDY. 

Westmoreland  Club,  Richmond,  Va. 

For  5  Gallons  of  Apple  Toddy. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Junius  Mosby,  President   Westmoreland  Club, 

Richmond,  Va. 

Six  pints  of  Cognac  brandy,  3  pints  apple  brandy,  l/2  pint 
peach  brandy,  6  gills  of  Jamaica  spirits,  'l/2  pint  curaqoa,  3  lemons 
peeled  and  sliced  thin,  1  bottle  champagne,  1  lb.  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  2  gallons  of  water,  48  apples  roasted  and  quartered  (Albe- 
marle Pippins). 

Known  as  Josiah  Lee's  recipe,  1850.  Contributed  by  General 
Snowden  Andrews,  Baltimore,  Md.,  who  married  the  daughter  of 
Mr.  Josiah  Lee. 

FISH  HOUSE  PUNCH. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Two  qts.  water.  2}/2  sugar  dissolved.  1  qt.  brandy,  1  pt.  peach 
brandy,  l/2  pt.  Jamaica  rum,  1  qt.  lemon  juice  and  5  lbs.  ice. 


1 86  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

COLONIAL  PUNCH. 

Mary  Robertson  Hawkins,  Conn. 

Of  oranges  four  and  lemons  two 

You  take  the  juice  to  make  your  brew; 

Eight  tablespoons  of  sugar  fine, 

A  quart  of  good  red  Bordeaux  wine, 

A  large  spoonful  of  choice  Jamaica 

Will  give  a  flavor  delicious  later. 

Then  a  generous  wine  glass  of  old  Cognac 

Will  make  your  lips  begin  to  smack, 

But  wait  until  you  add  the  sparkling  champagne 

A  pint  at  least  or  your  labor's  in  vain. 

JONATHAN  PRESCOTT  HALL'S  PUNCH. 

Uncle  of  Mrs.  Pegram,  Providence,  R.  I. 

Contributed   by   Miss  Isabelle  Pegram,   Providence,   R.    I. 

One  tumbler  lump  sugar,  2  tumblers  old  Jamaica  rum,  3  tum- 
blers of  water.  Peel  of  a  lemon  cut  with  the  oil  vesicles  in  it  only; 
none  of  the  white  below  the  rind.  A  large  lump  of  ice  placed  in 
the  bowl  and  allow  all  to  stand  for  several  hours.     Do  not  stir  it. 

SHERBET. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Seth  Barton  French. 

One  gallon  of  water,  12  lemons,  6  oranges,  1  cup  of  cream, 
whites  of  8  eggs  and  sweeten  to  your  taste. 

CURRANT  WINE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Two  measures  of  currants  to  4  qts.  of  water,  3  lbs.  of  sugar  to 
every  gallon  of  juice.  After  it  is  strained  pour  it  in  the  barrel,  but 
do  not  fill  it  by  6  inches.  Then  bung  it  and  let  the  wine  remain  in 
the  cask. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  187 

TEA   PUNCH. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Francis  T.    Boykin,  Richmond,    Va. 

Three  cups  of  strong  green  tea  into  which  put  the  rind  of  6 
lemons  pared  very  thin;  1J/2  lbs.  of  sugar  with  the  juice  of  6  lemons. 
Stir  together  a  few  moments  and  then  let  the  rind  of  the  lemon  re- 
main several  hours  in  the  mixture  to  give  flavor;  then  strain  off 
and  add  1  qt.  of  the  best  rum,  or  3  pts.  of  good  sherry.  Fill  glasses 
with  crushed  ice  when  serving.  It  will  keep  any  time  when  put  in 
bottles. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Mrs.    George   Turner,    "  Bellegrove,"   King   George   Co.,   Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   James  T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia;  Pa. 

Put  1  quart  of  vinegar  on  2  lbs.  of  ripe  raspberries,  let  them 
stand  24  hours.  Strain  them  through  a  sieve,  put  the  same  vinegar 
on  2  quarts  more  of  fruit.  Let  this  stand  again  24  hours  and  strain 
it.  To  every  pint  of  vinegar  put  1  lb.  of  sugar.  Put  it  in  a  stone 
jar,  place  it  in  a  pot  of  water  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  until  clear. 
Bottle  and  seal. 

RASPBERRY  WINE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Take  your  berries  and  bruise  them,  strain  them  through  a 
flannel  bag  into  a  stone  jar;  to  each  qt.  of  juice  add  1  lb.  of  sugar. 
Stir  well  together,  cover  closely.  Let  it  stand  three  days,  pour  it 
off  clear.  To  1  qt.  of  juice  put  2  qts.  of  brandy.  Bottle  it  after- 
wards. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  gallon  of  water,  1  pt.  of  wine,  ><  pt.  of  French  brandy,  1 
pt.  of  old  rum,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  the  rind  of  4  lemons,  juice  of  2,  freeze. 


^8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHERRY  BOUNCE. 

Contributed  by  Miss  M.  M.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

Eight  lbs.  of  Morella  cherries,  8  lbs.  of  black  cherries,  stew  them, 
bruise  through  a  funnel  into  a  demijohn  with  a  stick  that  the  liquid 
may  get  to  the  stones.  Pour  I  gallon  of  rectified  whiskey  over  the 
cherries.  Let  stand  several  months,  or  as  long  as  you  choose.  Then 
pour  off  the  liquid,  shake  the  cherries  out  of  the  demijohn,  cover  them 
with  water.  Bruise  them  well  and  if  you  can,  crush  some  of  the 
stones.  Let  them  stand  i  hour,  strain  liquor,  add  5  lbs.  of  sugar  and 
mix  all  the  liquor  together.  After  standing  until  settled  it  is  ready 
for  use.     A  few  wild  cherries  improves  it. 

GENERAL  HARRY  HETH'S   APPLE   TODDY. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  H.  Mortimer,  Philadelphia. 

This  apple  toddy  I  first  drank  in  Washington  at  my  brother's, 
General  Harry  Heth's.  It  was  made  in  honor  of  President  Cleve- 
land's first  election.  Then  it  was  bottled  and  sealed  and  not  again 
opened  until  President  Cleveland  was  for  the  second  time  elected  to 
the  Presidential  chair. 

For  1  gallon,  bake  well  and  crisp  8  well  flavored  apples  of  me- 
dium size.  When  cool,  place  in  a  bowl.  Mix  1  qt.  of  brandy,  1 
pt.  of  arrack,  1  pt.  of  Maraschino;  pour  the  mixture  over  the  apples 
and  add  2  qts.  of  water.  Sweeten  to  taste,  grating  a  little  nutmeg. 
Stir  well,  but  try  not  to  break  the  apples. 

APPLE  TODDY. 

Virginia  Club,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Commander  Hugo  Osterhaus,  U.  S.  N. 

One  gallon  apple  brandy,  1  qt.  of  rum,  6  large  apples  well  baked 
and  2  lbs.  of  sugar.  The  apples  must  be  large  and  perfect,  well 
baked  and  not  broken.  Drop  them  in  the  toddy  when  cold.  Add  1 
pt.  of  water,  which  must  be  boiling.  v 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  189 

DRAGOON  PUNCH. 
Charleston,  S.  C. 

One  and  one  half  gallons  (6  quarts)  whiskey,  8  qts.  Apollinaris, 
2  lbs.  sugar,  1  jar  or  1  can  Maraschino  cherries,  i]/2  doz.  lemons,  1 
can  sliced  pineapple,  1  small  tumbler  raspberry  cordial.  To  mix 
these,  first  squeeze  out  the  lemons  and  strain  the  pulp,  and  then  put 
in  about  a  quart  of  water,  then  2  tumblers  of  sugar,  stir  thoroughly 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  the  whiskey,  then  the  cherries, 
then  y2  pt.  of  "  Jamaica  rum,"  then  add  5  qts.  of  Apollinaris.  The 
other  3  qts.  of  Apollinaris  add  just  before  serving  to  produce  an  effer- 
vescent effect.  It  is  necessary  to  stir  the  mixture  the  whole  time  it  is 
being  made,  so  it  will  blend  properly.  Throw  2  lemons  thinly  sliced 
on  top  of  punch  just  before  serving.  Place  a  cube  of  ice  in  the  bowl. 
Through  the  courtesy  of  Mr.  Louis  F.  Sloan,  this  punch  was  given  to 
and  contributed  by  Mr.  Coalter  Bryan  Carmichael,  of  Fredericksburg, 
Va. 

This  punch  is  known  as  Dragoon  punch,  and  has  been  made  by 
Mr.  Louis  F.  Sloan,  of  Charleston,  for  the  past  50  years,  for  the 
Charleston  Light  Dragoons,  and  has  become  famous.  Many  distin- 
guished men  know  its  charms,  and  this  is  the  first  time  it  has  ever 
been  in  print.  Through  the  kindness  of  Mr.  Louis  F.  Sloan,  who 
now  concocts  it  for  all  the  functions  the  Dragoons  have,  the  writer 
was  able  to  secure  the  recipe. 

JONATHAN   PRESCOTT  HALL'S  SPICED  CLARET  WINE. 

Uncle  of  Mrs.   Pegram,   Providence,   R.   I. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Isabcllc  Pegram. 

Boil  together  in  1  pt.  of  water,  1  beaten  nutmeg,  2  sticks  of 
cinnamon  broken  up,  and  1  tablespoon  of  cloves  slightly  beaten ; 
when  reduced  to  l/2,  strain  the  liquid  into  1  pt.  of  wine,  set  it  on  the 
coals  again  and  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  While 
on  the  fire  sweeten  it  with  white  lump  sugar  to  taste. 


I9o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

RUM  PUNCH. 

Virginia  Club,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Commander  Hugo  Osterhaus,  U.  S.  N. 

One  gallon  Jamaica  rum,  i  gal.  boiling  water,  i  qt.  of  French 
brandy,  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  qt.  of  lemon  juice,  the  rind  of  1  doz. 
lemons  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  added  last. 

EGGNOG. 

Used  at  Westover  (on  James  River,  Va.)  by  Mr.  Selden. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  H.  Mortimer,  Philadelphia. 

For  one  gallon  of  eggnog,  16  eggs,  4^  pts.  brandy,  i*4  pts. 
Creme  de  Violette,  1%  pts.  Jamaica  rum,  3^$  pts.  cream,  3^  pts. 
boiled  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  nutmeg  grated.  Use  the  very  best  mate- 
rials. The  mixture  should  be  stirred  very  vigorously  during  the 
pouring  of  the  liquor  and  for  5  minutes  after,  to  avoid  curdling.  Of 
course  the  whites  and  yolks  are  beaten  separately  and  mixed  with  the 
sugar  before  the  brandy,  etc.,  are  put  in. 

SHERBET  —  MOST  EXCELLENT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Eight  lemons,  rind  of  4  grated,  3  quarts  of  water,  2  lbs.  of 
sugar,  1  pt.  of  milk.  Take  out  1  cupful  before  boiling  pt.  of  milk 
to  mix  5-4  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  in,  pour  to  boiling  milk  until  it 
thickens.     When  perfectly  cold  stir  in  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  light. 

CHAMPAGNE  PUNCH. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

One  qt.  champagne,  1  qt.  of  hock,  3  tablespoons  pulverized 
sugar,  1  whisky  glass  brandy,  1  whisky  glass  Maraschino,  1  whisky 
glass  curacoa.  Any  fresh  fruit,  bunch  of  mint  on  top.  Pint  of 
Club  soda. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  191 

SOUTHERN  EGGNOG. 

Contributed  by  Houston  Eldrcdgc,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 

Four  doz.  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  qts.  of  cream,  1  qt.  J/2  pt.  best 
brandy,  1  pt.  of  best  rum.  Beat  up  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  sepa- 
rately. To  beaten  yolks  add  sugar  slowly,  then  brandy,  then  rum, 
beating  all  the  time.  Then  add  cream  slowly  as  before.  Then  add 
beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

This  is  "  Eggnog  "  as  served  Christmas  in  the  South,  and  the 
best  recipe  that  I  know  of. 

FATHER'S   BLACKBERRY   WINE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia. 

Wash  4  qts.  of  berries,  pour  1  qt.  of  boiling  water  over  them. 
Let  stand  24  hours  or  until  they  begin  to  ferment.  Then  press  out 
all  the  juice  and  put  in  a  bag  or  jar  and  fill  full,  reserving  some  to 
fill  up  with.  Let  it  work  over  the  top  and  fill  up  as  it  needs  it  until 
it  stops  working,  then  rack  it  off  and  put  it  in  a  clean  barrel  and 
cork  lightly. 

REGENT'S  PUNCH. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,   Va. 

Two  lbs.  of  loaf  sugar,  2  large  cups  of  strong  black  tea,  6  wine- 
glasses of  brandy,  6  wineglasses  of  rum,  4  oranges,  juice  only,  4 
lemons,  1  large  lump  of  ice,  2  quart  bottles  of  champagne,  put  in 
just  before  using. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  qts.  of  water,  4  lemons,  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  1  lb.  6  oz. 
of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  cream.  Mix  half  the  sugar  and  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  The  balance  of  sugar  with  lemon  and  water  and  then 
mix  all  together.     Make  just  before  ready  to  freeze. 


i9?f  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ROBERT  E.  LEE  PUNCH. 

Charleston,  S.  C. 

Through  Mr.  Coulter  Bryan  Carmichael,  Virginia. 

As  the  name  would  indicate  this  punch  is  dear  to  the  hearts  as 
well  as  palates  of  the  Southern  people  and  is  used  always  to  enter- 
tain distinguished  guests.  All  the  Presidents  and  distinguished  po- 
tentates have  drunk  deep  of  this  delicious  concoction.  In  spite  of  a 
declaration  of  a  distinguished  Southerner,  that  one  glass  of  this 
punch  would  make  you  climb  the  nearest  lamp  post,  two  glasses  will 
make  you  unable  to  reach  the  lamp  post,  the  third,  alas !  will  make 
you  fight  yourself. 

One  and  a  half  gals.  (6  qts.)  Jamaica  rum,  8  qts.  Apollinaris, 
2  lbs.  sugar,  I  jar  or  can  Maraschino  cherries,  iV2  doz.  lemons,  I  can 
sliced  pineapple,  i  small  tumbler  raspberry  cordial.  Reserve  3  qts. 
of  Apollinaris ;  just  before  serving  add,  to  produce  an  effervescent 
effect.  It  is  best  to  place  bowl  of  punch  on  a  block  of  ice  for  some 
time  before  serving,  instead  of  in  the  punch.  Then  look  out  for  the 
nearest  lamp  post. 

PUNCH. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 

One  and  a  quarter  lbs.  sugar,  3  pts.  water,  1  pt.  lemon  juice,  1 
pt.  Cognac,  2  pts.  Jamaica  rum,  1  pineapple  cut  up,  and  allowed  to 
soak  for  24  hours.     Then  strain. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Mrs.  Villeneuve,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

One  large  cup  of  cold  tea,  green  or  black,  mixed;  juice  of  1 
lemon  or  lime;  with  1  lb.  of  sugar  make  into  a  syrup  from  any  sort 
of  preserve.  One  qt.  of  rum  or  1  qt.  of  sherry,  chopped  ice.  Cold 
tea  is  the  best  foundation  for  any  kind  of  fruit  punches. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  193 

WESTMORELAND  CLUB  MINT  JULEP. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Junius  Mosby,  Prcs.,  Richmond ,  Va. 

.  (This  must  be  a  good  recipe  for  this  famous  Virginia  drink, 
for  history  records  the  fact  that  3,000  were  dispensed  at  this  delight- 
ful old  club  the  day  of  the  unveiling  of  the  Lee  Monument  some 
years  ago.) 

One  large  bunch  of  mint  fresh  from  its  bed,  ]/2  tumbler  of  crushed 
ice,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Crush  part  of  your  mint  with  ice  and 
sugar,  then  add  your  whiskey  (and  don't  look  while  the  other  fellow 
adds  his),  then  place  rest  of  mint  in  glass,  with  more  crushed  ice, 
and  as  an  old  Virginian  said,  "  Drink,  and  be  glad  you  are  living." 

PENDENNIS  MINT  JULEP. 

Pendennis  Club,  Louisville,  Ky.   (Mr.  J.  A.  Hadley.) 

Contributed  by  Miss  Alice  W.  Richardson,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Into  a  dry  silver  cup  put  one  lump  of  sugar,  add  enough  water 
to  soften  it  and  then  crush  same,  adding  a  very  few  leaves  of  fresh 
mint.  Fill  cup  with  crushed  ice,  add  one  jigger  of  Bourbon  whis- 
key, stir  until  frost  appears  on  outside  of  cup,  then  cover  top  of  cup 
and  contents  with  mint  cut  short  and  inserted  stems  down ;  add 
straws  and  serve.  The  amount  of  sugar  used  can  be  varied,  of 
course,  to  suit  the  taste,  the  less  used  the  better  for  the  drinker. 
The  idea  of  covering  the  entire  top  with  mint  is  to  allow  the  drinker 
to  get  the  full  fragrance  of  the  mint. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Marie  Louise  Jones,   Philadelphia,  Pa.     1866. 

Put  in  stone  or  china  jar  2  qts.  of  raspberries  and  1  qt.  of  vin- 
egar. Let  it  stand  24  hours,  strain  through  a  sieve,  pour  the  liquor 
over  2  qts.  of  fresh  raspberries ;  let  it  stand  24  hours  longer,  strain 
again  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  lb.  of  sugar ;  let  boil  20  min- 
utes. Bottle  when  cold. 
13 


I94  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FISH  HOUSE  PUNCH. 

Contributed  by  Dr.  S.  Naudain  Duer,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  qts.  Jamaica  rum,  i  qt.  brandy,  2  oz.  peach  brandy,  1  qt. 
lemon  juice,  1  qt.  water,  %  lb-  lump  sugar.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the 
water;  to  this  add  the  lemon  juice,  then  thoroughly  mix  all  the  other 
ingredients.  Put  in  a  punch  bowl  with  10  lbs.  of  ice  in  one  block. 
Pour  the  mixture  constantly  over  the  ice  until  the  ice  has  melted 
sufficiently  to  bring  the  total  quantity  up  to  7  qts.  or  to  taste. 

RHINE  WINE  CUP. 
Contributed  by  Dr.  S.  Naudain  Duer,  Philadelphia;  Pa. 

One  qt.  Rhine  wine,  1  wineglass  curaqoa,  1  wineglass  gin  (the 
best).  Mix  in  large  mouthed  pitcher  with  one  large  piece  of  ice. 
Just  before  serving  enliven  with  two  short  "  squirts  "  from  a  siphon 
of  plain  soda.  The  cup  may  be  improved  by  a  small  piece  of  cucum- 
ber rind  left  in  for  a  few  minutes  only,  as  more  than  the  faintest 
taste  of  cucumber  will  spoil  it.  Serve  in  Apollinaris  glasses  with  a 
few  sprigs  of  mint. 

SHERBET. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,   Washington,  D.  C. 

Eight  lemons,  3  oranges,  rind  of  1  or  2  lemons,  whites  of  3 
eggs,  3  pts.  of  water,  and  add  more  if  you  think  it  too  strong,  il/2 
lbs.  sugar. 

WILD  CHERRY  BOUNCE. 

A  receipt  of  Mrs.  Frances  Surget   (nee  Eliza  Dunbar),  of  Natchez, 
Miss.,  and  used  in  her  family  since  1791. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Louise  Puquet  du  Belief,  of  Natchez,  Miss. 

Pick  the  cherries  from  the  stalks,  fill  the  bottles  nearly  up  to  the 
necks,  then  fill  bottles  full  of  good  brandy.  In  3  weeks  or  a  month 
strain  off  the  spirit,  and  to  each  quart  add  1  lb.  of  clarified  sugar, 
and  flavor  with  tincture  of  cinnamon  or  cloves  to  suit  the  taste. 


ICES,  PUNCHES,  ETC.  195 

MRS.  JUDGE  SIMRALL'S  RECIPE  FOR  EGGNOG. 

Louisville,  Ky. 

Contributed  by  Professor  Lindley  M.  Keasbey,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Take  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  stir  in  1  teacupful  of  sugar.  After 
beating  thoroughly,  add  1  large  teacupful  of  Jamaica  rum.  Set 
aside  for  a  couple  of  hours  or  more.  Just  before  serving  add  1  pt. 
of  brandy,  then  stir  in  gradually  ]A  gal.  of  whipped  cream. 

THE  REGENT'S  PUNCH   (1783). 

From   Grandma  Markoe's  Receipt   Book,    1800. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  D.   Winsor,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Three  bottles  of  champagne,  1  bottle  of  curagoa,  2  bottles  of 
Madeira,  2  bottles  of  seltzer  water,  1  of  hock,  1  qt.  of  brandy,  1  pt. 
of  rum  (Santa  Cruz),  4  lbs.  of  Bloom  raisins,  Seville  oranges,  lem- 
ons, white  sugar,  and  instead  of  water  strong  green  tea.  The  whole 
should  be  well  iced. 

DR.  CARSON'S  RECEIPT  TO  RELIEVE  A  PERSON  WHOSE 
STOMACH  IS  CRAVING  FOR  ALCOHOLIC  LIQUOR. 

From   Grandma  Markoe's  Receipt  Book,    1800. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  D.   Winsor,  Haverford,  Pa. 

One  oz.  of  wormwood  to  1  pt.  of  water;  strain  it  and  take  a 
wineglass  four  times  a  day.  When  the  weather  is  very  hot,  or  the 
person  appears  to  be  exhausted,  put  in  (quietly)  a  tablespoonful  of 
whiskey. 

CHERRY    BOUNCE. 

Captain  Nicholas  Moran.  New  York  (1770). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Six  qts.  wild  cherries.  Put  in  to  a  3-gallon  demijohn,  add  1^2 
gallons  rum,  2  qts.  water,  1  lb.  loaf  sugar. 


i96  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FISH  HOUSE  PUNCH. 

This  is  the  recipe  used  by  "  The  State-in-Schuylkill "  Club  House, 
and  given  to  Mrs.  Thomas  J.  Barger  by  Mr.  Rodman  Wister, 
Philadelphia,  Pa.,  who  contributed  it  to  this  book. 

Two  qts.  of  rum,  i  qt.  of  brandy,  i  qt.  of  lemon  juice,  i  lb.  of 
sugar,  i  wineglass  of  peach  brandy.  Water  to  taste.  Put  in  a 
bowl  with  a  lump  of  ice.     Stir  frequently  and  do  not  use  for  an  hour. 

MULLED  CIDER. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Lydia  S.  Hinchman,  Philadelphia. 

A  good  drink  for  a  cold  night;  used  in  earlier  days  on  Nan- 
tucket by  the  Quakers,  who  had  given  up  the  use  of  punch. 

Heat  sweet  cider  and  to  each  quart  add  i  tablespoonful  of  flour 
beaten  until  smooth  in  a  little  water.  Sweeten  and  spice  to  taste; 
serve  while  hot. 

PLUM  CORDIAL. 

An  after  dinner  favorite  at  "  Chachau,"  the  famous  old  plantation 
near  Charleston,    S.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Charles  Stevens,  Charleston,  S.  C. 

Fill  a  jug  with  August  "  hog  plums."  Pour  over  them  the 
spirits,  until  the  jug  can  hold  no  more.  Allow  to  remain  for  2  or  3 
months.  Pour  off  carefully  and  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Be  careful  that  children  do  not  get  the  plums 
left,  as  they  are  very  intoxicating. 


CREAM   AND    OTHER   DESSERTS. 


CREAM  AND  OTHER  DESSERTS. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason.  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  i  qt.  of  rich  cream,  divide  it  in  half.  Sweeten  i  pt.  of 
it  and  stir  into  it  sufficient  currant  jelly  to  color  it  a  fine  pink.  Put 
it  in  a  glass  bowl  and  place  in  the  center  a  pile  of  sliced  almond 
sponge  cake  or  lady  cake,  every  slice  spread  with  raspberry  jam,  or 
marmalade,  and  laid  evenly  on  one  another.  Have  ready  the  other 
pint  of  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  and  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Heap  it  all  over  the  cake  and  serve. 

CHARLOTTE   POLONAISE. 

Mary  B.  Garrow,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Wm.  A.   Glasgozv,  Jr. 

One  large  stale  sponge  cake,  i  cup  rich  custard,  i  cup  of  cream, 
whipped.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  wine,  l/2  grated  cocoanut,  y2  lb.  sweet 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff,  3 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  Cut  cake  in  horizontal  slices  'y2 
inch  thick.  Divide  the  egg  into  two  portions ;  into  one  stir  the 
cocoanut  with  half  the  sugar,  into  the  other  the  almond  paste  with 
the  rest  of  the  sugar.  Spread  the  slices  with  these  mixtures,  half 
with  the  cocoanut  and  half  with  the  almond  and  replace  in  the  orig- 
inal form,  laying  aside  the  top  slice  for  a  lid.  Press  all  the  slices 
firmly  together  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  whole  center  of  the 
sliced  cake  out,  leaving  the  walls  an  inch  thick.  Then  soak  the 
parts  removed  in  a  bowl  with  the  custard.  Rub  it  smooth  and  whip 
it  into  the  cream;  when  stiff  fill  the  cake  again,  put  on  the  lid  and 
ice. 

199 


200  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Mrs.  Flowerree,  Vicksburg,  Miss. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,   Tex. 

One  half  pint  of  milk,  4  eggs,  yolks  only,  54  lb-  of  loaf  sugar, 
1  oz.  of  gelatine,  1  qt.  of  cream,  1  vanilla  bean.  Soak  the  gelatine 
in  cold  water  1  pt,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  "j/£  pt.  Simmer  the 
bean  in  milk  until  flavor  is  extracted,  strain,  add  eggs  and  sugar 
and  simmer  custard  5  minutes.  Strain  gelatine  into  custard  and  set 
on  ice.  When  beginning  to  set,  add  cream  whipped  light.  Line 
mould  with  lady  fingers,  fill  with  mixture,  set  on  ice. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,    Vg, 

One  oz.  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  less  than  a  teacup  of  water. 
Make  a  custard  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  whip  to  a  stiff  froth 
1  qt.  of  cream.  When  the  gelatine  is  cool,  but  not  congealed,  beat 
it  with  the  cooled  custard.  When  cold  add  whipped  cream ;  season 
with  vanilla.  When  thoroughly  mixed  pour  into  moulds  lined  with 
sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers.  Set  aside  until  stiff  enough  to  turn 
from  moulds. 

SAUCE  FOR  FRITTERS. 

Beat  together  J4  lb.  of  butter,  'l/2  lb.  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  and  a  wineglass  of  sherry  or  Madeira.  Stir  over  fire  until  it 
thickens. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Mrs.  Michel,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,    Tex. 

One  qt.  of  cream,  one  third  box  of  gelatine,  whites  of  6  eggs,  tea- 
cup of  milk ;  melt  gelatine  in  milk.  Flavor  and  sweeten  cream  to  taste 
and  whip  firm.  When  gelatine  begins  to  stiffen  add  whipped  cream 
and  lastly  eggs  whipped  very  light. 


CREAM  AND  OTHER  DESSERTS  201 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE. 

Mrs.   Edward  Randall,   Galveston,  Tex. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,  Tex. 

One  third  of  package  of  gelatine,  one  third  cup  of  water,  one  third 
cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  doz.  lady  fingers,  1  cup  orange  pulp 
and  juice,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  whites  3  eggs;  soak  gela- 
tine in  cold  water.  Add  boiling  water,  sugar  and  pint  of  juice. 
When  it  begins  to  congeal,  beat  in  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Line  mould  with  lady  fingers,  put  on  ice  until  firm. 

WINE  WHEY. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  third  wine  (sherry),  two  thirds  milk,  scald  milk  and  just 
before  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  the  wine.  The  curd  will  separate, 
then  strain  whey. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Soak  1  oz.  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  milk  10  minutes,  then  place 
over  the  fire  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Remove  and  when  cool  beat 
thoroughly.  Flavor  1  qt.  of  cream  with  1  large  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
1  small  wineglass  of  brandy,  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  the 
mixtures  together  and  whip  thoroughly.  Have  moulds  lined  with 
lady  fingers,  fill  with  the  above  and  place  on  ice  until  needed. 

BISQUE  GLACE. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  quart  of  rich  cream  whipped,  whites  of  10  eggs  beaten 
light,  1  oz.  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  as  little  water  as  possible  and 
flavor  to  taste.     Stir  altogether  and  freeze. 


202  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE, 

Mrs.  Nicholas  Roosevelt,  of  New  York. 

Contributed  through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Cake.  —  Three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  Y\  cups  of 
flour,  half  a  lemon,  i  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  y2  spoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  warm  milk.  Russe.  —  Three  fourths  pt.  of  cream 
fwell  whipped,  2  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  light,  y2 
glass  of  wine,  vanilla,  tablespoon  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  warm 
water. 

VIRGINIA  BELLE  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  pint  of  milk. 
Thicken  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  with  1  pt.  of  flour;  stir  it  on  the 
fire  until  the  flour  is  cooked.  Pour  in  a  wooden  bowl,  add  5  eggs, 
one  at  a  time  and  beating  each  one  well  in.  Put  a  pint  of  lard  in  a 
pan  and  when  it  boils  drop  one  fritter  in  at  a  time  from  the  point  of 
your  spoon. 

APPLE  SPONGE. 

Bessie  Fraser,  Qoderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Win.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Boil  1  lb.  of  sugar  in  a  'y2  pt.  of  water  until  clear,  then  add  1 
pt.  of  sliced  apples.  Soak  1  oz.  o,f  gelatine,  add  with  rind  and  juice 
of  2  lemons.  Beat  until  cold  and  slightly  stiffened,  then  add  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  put  in  mould  to  set.  Serve  with  custard  made 
with  yolks  of  eggs,  or  else  use  whipped  cream. 

RUM  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Whip  stiff  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  2  tablespoons  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  2  tablespoons  cream,  2  of  rum,  2  of  brandy. 


JELLIES. 


JELLIES. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Use  the  whole  of  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  letting  it  stand  10  minutes.  Add  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  as  you  pour  it  in,  and  stir  until  it  has  all  dissolved.  Add 
a  pint  of  Sicily  Madeira  wine,  the  juice  and  peel  of  i  lemon,  ;j  lb. 
sugar.  Then  boil  and  stir  continually  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
well  beaten.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  then  take  off  immediately  and  let 
it  stand  one  minute.  Pour  boiling  water  into  your  flannel  bag, 
wring  out  and  keep  it  warm  near  the  fire.  Pour  the  mixture  in 
and  let  it  drip  through,  never  squeezing  it,  and  never  letting  it  touch 
what  has  already  gone  through  the  bag. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Porticu.v  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  and  one  half  pints  of  cold  water,  \y2  pts.  boiling,  il/>  pts. 
wine,  juice  of  2  lemons,  rind  of  one  sliced  thin  and  boiled  with  -)4 
lb.  of  sugar.  Whites  of  2  eggs,  bunch  of  raisins,  1  box  Cox's  gela- 
tine. Let  it  boil  clear  and  run  through  strainer;  20  minutes  or  half 
hour  boil ;  put  less  water  if  the  weather  is  warm ;  1  pt.  of  hot,  1  pt. 
of  cold  water,  but  never  less  wine. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam,  Philadelphia^  Pa. 

One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.- 
1  )4  lbs.  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  pt.  of  good  sherry  wine. 
Boil  1  qt.  of  water,  add  to  it  a  few  small  sticks  of  cinnamon.  Pour 
this  while  boiling  on  the  gelatine ;  as  soon  as  dissolved  stir  in  the  other 
ingredients.     Strain  and  put  away  to  cool. 

205 


206  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CALVES'   FOOT  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Dangerfield,  Alexandria,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Virginia. 

Prepare  very  carefully  4  calves'  feet,  hoofs  taken  off,  etc. 
When  boiled  to  pieces  in  about  2  qts.  of  water,  pour  them  through  a 
colander.  When  cold  take  all  the  grease  off.  There  should  be 
from  4  feet  about  i,y2  pts.  of  jelly;  pour  on  this  1  qt.  of  wine, 
juice  of  6  lemons  strained  from  seeds,  \]/2  lbs.  granulated  sugar, 
2  blades  of  mace,  the  rind  thinly  peeled  from  2  lemons.  Wash  8 
eggs  clean,  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  crush  the  shells  and  put  them 
with  the  jelly.  Set  on  the  fire,  stir  until  jelly  is  melted  and  do  not 
touch  it  afterwards.  When  it  has  boiled  until  it  looks  quite  clear 
on  one  side  and  the  drops  accumulate  on  the  other,  take  off  the 
thickest  part  of  the  drops,  pour  the  jelly  into  a  bag  which  should 
be  made  of  coarse  cotton.  Put  back  what  runs  through  until  it  is 
transparent. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Squeeze  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  into  it  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Then  add 
2^4  lbs.  of  lump  sugar.  Pour  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  add  a 
pint  of  best  cooking  wine. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Thompson. 

Core  and  cut  2  doz.  apples  into  quarters,  boil  with  the  rind  of 
a  lemon  until  tender.  Drain  off  juice,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag 
and  to  each  pint  add  'V2  pt.  sugar  and  x/z  oz.  gelatine,  previously 
soaked  and  simmered  gently  in  x/y  pt.  of  water.  Boil  altogether 
slowly  for  15  minutes  and  strain  into  moulds.  Turn  out  when  cold 
and  serve,  surrounded  with  whipped  cream  or  custard.  If  jelly 
is  not  perfectly  clear  after  straining  beat  up  white  of  eggs  and  add; 
bring  to  a  boil  and  skim,  then  strain  again. 


JELLIES  207 

THERE  IS  NO  FINER  CRAB  APPLE  JELLY   IN   APPEAR- 
ANCE AND  TASTE  THAN  AUNT  ZEKEL'S. 
Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Cut  Siberian  crab  apples  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or  remove 
the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  pleasant  flavor  to  the 
fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot  of  hot  water  and  let  it  boil 
8  or  9  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar  all  night  covered  closely,  next  morn- 
ing squeeze  out  the  juice  and  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  manage  as 
you  do  currant  jelly.  Should  the  apples  be  very  dry  add  a  cup  of 
water  for  every  6  pounds  of  fruit. 

TO  MAKE  JELLY  WITH  ISINGLASS. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,   Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  2J/2  oz.  of  isinglass,  soak  it  in  cold  water  for  ]/2  hour. 
Strain  it  and  pour  on  it  y2  gallon  of  boiling  water.  When  cold  add 
il/2  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  qt.  of  good  sherry  and  juice  of  4  lemons,  the 
whites  and  shells  (washed  carefully)  of  6  eggs.  Stir  well  before 
putting  it  on  the  fire.  Let  boil  clear,  but  do  not  stir.  Add  1  gill 
of  cold  water.  Strain  through  bag  on  rind  cut  thin  of  the  lemons. 
Strain  through  bag  a  second  time  if  not  clear. 

RECIPE  FOR  CALVES'   FOOT  JELLY. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

To  8  calves'  feet  carefully  prepared,  put  1 1  qts.  of  water  and 
let  boil  7  hours.  Skim  well.  When  cold  set  aside  to  congeal. 
Take  \y2  gal. -of  the  stock  and  add  3  pts.  of  wine  (sherry),  3  lbs. 
sugar,  \y2  doz.  lemons  from  which  value  juice,  il/2  doz.  whites  of 
eggs,  1  bunch  of  raisins.  The  rind  of  2  lemons  peeled  thin.  Let 
boil  20  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Run  through 
strainer. 


2o8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson  (1840). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Bell  Flower  apples,  pared,  quartered  and  thrown  into  cold 
water.  A  syrup  made  of  ^4  lb-  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit;  boil  until 
clear;  when  half  boiled  cut  1  lemon  to  every  3  lbs  of  fruit.  For 
apple  jelly  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  pt.  of  juice.     Boil  until  clear. 


PASTRY. 


14 


PASTRY. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

A  very  old  English  receipt,  1800- 1905. 

Contributed    by   Beatrice  Bickerton-Fox    (Mrs.    L.    Webster  Fox), 
Havcrford,  Pa.,  U.  S.  A. 

H.  R.  H.  the  Duke  of  Sussex,  who  was  a  constant  visitor  at 
Lleweny.  being  a  close  friend  of  Mr.  Bickerton,  was  so  fond  of  this 
mixture  that  Mr.  Bickerton  sent  M.  Baumeister  to  St.  James  Palace, 
where  the  Duke  lived,  and  where  the  great  chef  became  chief  of  the 
culinary  department.  This  chief  Christmas  dish  was  introduced  and 
has  been  used  in  the  kitchens  of  the  Royal  Family  for  many,  many 
years.  These  two  recipes  were  old  in  1800,  when  they  were  used 
at  Lleweny  Hall.  Denbighshire,  North  Wales,  by  Mrs.  Bickerton, 
Great  Grandmother  to  the  contributor.  Originally  a  beef  tongue 
or' round  of  beef  was  added,  but  M.  Baumeister,  chef  at  Lleweny 
Hall,  eliminated  the  solid  meat  and  substituted  beef  suet. 

One  pound  of  Demarara  sugar,  1  lb.  of  Sultana  raisins,  1  lb. 
of  Valencia  raisins,  1  lb.  of  black  currants,  1  lb.  of  best  beef  suet, 
finely  chopped,  1  lb.  of  best  apples,  finely  chopped,  ^  lb.  of  Cardian 
citron  peel,  4  lemons,  skins  peeled,  boiled  and  chopped,  juice  strained, 
4  nutmegs  finely  grated,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  gill  of  old  Jamaica 
rum,  r  gill  of  old  French  brandy.  Mix  well  together  in  deep  pan- 
mug  with  well  fitting  lid. 

PASTRY. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

One  qt.  of  flour ;  wrork  in  it  Y\  lb.  of  lard,  water  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  and  put  -)4  lb.  of  butter  in  the  dough  in 
little  pats.  Dust  flour  over  it  thickly,  and  roll  it.  Put  aside  half  an 
hour,  roll  out  three  times  and  bake. 

211 


212  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MINCE  MEAT. 

This  is  the  old  Wager  recipe,  given  to  me  by  my  great  Aunt 
Anne  Elizabeth  Wager,  who  was  the  granddaughter  of  Philip  Wager, 
who  was  a  member  of  the  First  Philadelphia  Dancing  Class. 

Contributed   by   Fanny    Neif   Ewing,    Mrs.    Samuel   Ewing,    Brym 

Mawr,  Pa. 

One  large  beef's  tongue,  fresh  boiled  and  chopped,  2l/2  lbs.  of 
raisins,  stoned,  2^/2  lbs.  of  dried  currants,  2]/2  lbs.  of  beef  suet, 
chopped  fine,  ]A  lb  of  citron,  cut  fine,  ']/2  lb  of  brown  sugar,  12  pippin 
apples,  pared  and  chopped,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  4  lemons,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  2  oranges,  3  nutmegs  grated,  1  teaspoon  of 
ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1 
bottle  best  brandy,  1  bottle  of  sherry  or  madeira.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, put  in  a  stone  crock,  pour  on  brandy  and  wine;  mix  well 
again,  cover  and  let  it  stand.  Try  in  a  day  or  two  and  if  necessary 
add  more  seasoning. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Mark  L.  Requa,  Oakland,  Cal. 

Use  pie  plate  9^2  inches  diameter,  i]/2  inches  deep.  Take  2]/2 
cups  milk,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1  large  cup  cooked  squash,  passed 
through  a  sieve,  1  cup  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly,  bake  slowly,  set  to 
cool.  Beat  J/2  cup  of  cream  stiff,  and  spread  over  top  of  pie.  Cups 
mentioned  are  large  coffee  cups. 

PUFF  PASTE  (VERY  GOOD). 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell,  New  Orleans. 

One  half  pt.  of  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  2  of  ice  water.  Mix 
flour  and  butter  together  with  a  knife,  make  a  hole  in  center  and  put 
in  ice  water.  Roll  out  three  times.  Then  put  on  ice  for  an  hour  or 
more.  In  cold  weather  a  little  more  water  is  needed.  Do  not  touch 
with  hands.  Cook  in  a  hot  oven.  After  it  puffs  pinch  with  a  fork 
two  Or  three  times. 


PASTRY  213 

A  FAMOUS  LEMON  PIE. 

Made  in  its  perfection  by  Mary  Robertson  Haivkins,  a  great-great- 
granddaughter  of  Jonathan  Law  ( last  Colonial  Governor  of  Con- 
necticut), and  contributed  by  her  daughter,  Mary  E.  Chandon. 

One  egg,  1  teacup ful  of  granulated  sugar,  1  lemon,  grated  rind 
and  pulp.  After  grating  the  rind,  the  lemon  is  carefully  peeled  so  as 
not  to  break  the  sections,  which  must  be  picked  apart,  all  the  thin 
skins  and  seeds  taken  off  and  the  pieces  of  pulp  put  on  a  plate  to  catch 
any  drops  of  juice.  The  egg  is  slightly  beaten  with  a  fork  in  a  shal- 
low bowl  or  dish,  yolk  and  white  together,  then  the  sugar  is  added 
gradually,  then  the  grated  rind,  pulp  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  A  pie 
plate  has  been  lined  with  a  rich  puff  paste,  in  which  the  mixture  is 
poured,  then  with  crossed  narrow  strips  of  the  puff  paste,  cut  with  a 
jugging  iron.  Bake  in  a  sufficiently  hot  oven  for  the  mixture  to  rise, 
it  will  fall  when  cold ;  when  slightly  brown  cover  lightly  with  a  paper 
until  the  crust  is  well  baked.  This  pie  has  no  upper  crust  and  is 
very  rich  and  delicious  if  the  directions  are  strictly  followed. 

AUNTY'S  MINCE  MEAT. 

Mrs.   Prescott  Adamson,   Germantown,   Pa. 

Three  lbs.  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  6  lbs.  Sultana  raisins  chopped 
fine,  6  lbs.  cooking  apples  chopped  fine,  3  lbs.  currants  picked, 
washed  and  chopped  fine,  4  large  lemons,  juice  and  rind  grated,  1 
lb.  sweet  almonds  chopped,  1  oz.  butter,  4  grated  nutmegs,  1  tea- 
spoon cloves,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  citron,  1  pt.  cider,  1  pt.  brandy,  1 
glass  of  plum  or  peach  jam.  Cover  with  brandy,  paper,  and  add  a 
little  spirits  every  time  you  take  any   from  jar. 

DELICIOUS  COCOANUT  PIE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  large  or  2  small  cocoanuts,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 
4  eggs,  3^2  cups  of  sugar.     Bake  in  good  rich  crust. 


214  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MINCE  MEAT. 

From  the  old  book  of  Elizabeth  Van  Rensselaer,  married  Sep- 
tember 1 8th,  1787,  to  John  Bradstreet  Schuyler. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Francis  Chamber's  Great  Granddaughter. 

Two  pounds  of  tongue  (boiled),  iy2  lbs.  of  suet,  2l/2  lbs.  of 
currants,  1  lb.  of  raisins  (stoned),  1  lb.  of  citron  cut  small,  y±  oz. 
of  mace,  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  ginger,  1  lb.  of  powdered 
sugar,  2  lemons,  6  tablespoons  of  rose  water,  1  pt.  of  wine,  1  pt. 
of  brandy  and  a  little  salt.  When  you  make  the  pies,  chop  a  pippin 
fine  and  add  to  the  mince  meat. 

LEMON   PIE. 

Bristol,  R.  I. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Minnie  Perry.     An  old  receipt. 

Three  cups  powdered  sugar,  mix  well  with  1  cup  butter,  then 
beat  4  eggs  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  more 
cream,  and  3  or  4  Burt's  Boston  Crackers  grated  in  will  make  them 
nice,  though  less  rich. 

MINCE  MEAT. 
My  Great  Great  Aunt,  Lydia  Jones,  about  the  year  1800. 

Contributed  by  Elizabeth  W.  Paul  Morris,  Mrs.  Fred'k  Wistar  Mor- 
ris, "  Dundale,"   Villa  Nova,  Pa. 

Meat  /beef  or  tongue)  2  lbs.,  suet  1  lb.,  brown  sugar  2  lbs., 
currants  2  lbs.,  raisins  2  lbs.,  citron  y2  lb.,  apples  chopped  1  lb., 
wine  1  pt.,  brandy  1  pt.,  cinnamon  ~y2  oz.,  1  nutmeg.  I  have 
changed  the  recipe  somewhat.  I  use  y  lb.  of  lemon  peel  and  }4 
of  orange  peel,  the  grated  rind  of  3  or  4  lemons,  also  the  juice,  and 
I  add  the  brandy  (2  tablespoons)  at  the  time  of  baking,  and  I  use 
cider  instead  of  wine,  but  either  way  it  is  very  good. 


PASTRY  2i$ 

MINCE  MEAT. 
Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 

Eight  lbs.  of  beef,  2  lbs.  of  suet,  6  lbs.  raisins,  6  lbs.  currants,  1  lb. 
of  butter.  The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  6  lemons  and  oranges,  spices 
to  taste,  with  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  ^4  peck  of  ap- 
ples, 3  pts.  of  brandy,  3  pts.  of  wine,  7  lbs.  of  sugar. 

This  receipt  was  used  by  Mrs.  Joseph  Worrall,  Jr.,  who  resided 
at  136  South  Sixth  street,  opposite  Independence  Square.  Her  hus- 
band was  first  Captain  of  the  Washington  Guards  when  they  were 
first  formed  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Mrs.  Worrall  was  born  in  1806. 
and  many  of  these  receipts  belonged  to  Mrs.  John  F.  Evans. 

MINCE   PIE. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Four  lbs.  boiled  meat,  iy2  lbs.  suet,  2  lbs.  chopped  raisins,  \]/2 
lbs.  currants,  \]/2  pts.  of  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  1 
great  spoonful  of  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  3  of  salt,  1  pt.  of 
molasses,  1%  lb.  brown  sugar,  3  nutmegs  grated,  1  spoonful  of 
mace,  3  gills  of  brandy,  il/2  pts.  cider,  1  pt.  sherry  wine,  citron  at 
pleasure.  Meat  and  suet  to  be  chopped  very  fine  and  all  thoroughly 
mixed.  In  2  weeks  add  a  gill  of  brandy.  Add  chopped  apple  to 
this  meat  as  each  pie  is  made. 

MINCE  PIES. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Maivr,  Pa. 

Four  and  }i  lbs.  nice  beef,  2l/>  lbs.  suet,  7  lbs.  brown  sugar, 
7  lbs.  tart  firm  apples,  1  pt.  dark  molasses,  1  qt.  sweet  cider,  1  pt. 
good  Sherry,  1  pt.  good  brandy,  .7  lbs.  mixed  fruit,  raisins,  currants 
and  citron,  2  oz.  ground  nutmeg,  2  oz.  cinnamon,  1  oz.  allspice,  l/2  oz. 
cloves.     If  too  sweet  lemon  juice  may  be  added. 


2i6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TO  MAKE  GOOD  PASTRY. 
Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Two  lbs.  of  flour,  i  ]/2  lbs.  of  butter  and  good  lard  mixed.  Place 
on  ice  until  cold.  Then  chop  it  up  in  the  flour  in  small  bits.  Mix 
with  ice  water  with  a  knife,  putting  the  hand  into  it  as  little  as  possi- 
ble. Turn  on  paste  board  and  roll  thin.  Cut  into  three  pieces  with 
knife,  put  one  piece  on  top  of  the  other,  and  roll  out  again,  doing  this 
three  times.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  after  shaping  as  you 
desire. 

MINCE   MEAT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Chestnut  Hill,  Pa. 

Two  large  fresh  tongues  boiled  and  chopped  (this  quantity  makes 
5  large  cupfuls)  ;  ]/2  basket  greening  apples,  7  cupfuls;  3  lbs.  suet 
chopped  fine,  3^  cupfuls;  7  lbs.  raisins  stoned.  6  cupfuls;  i'j4  lbs. 
currants,  2  cupfuls ;  1  j4  1DS-  citron  cut  fine ;  4  nutmegs  grated,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  cinnamon,  3  tablespoonfuls  allspice,  3  oranges, 
juice  and  rind,  3  lemons  juice  and  rind,  7  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  qt.  of  good 
brandy,  1  qt.  good  sherry.  Mix  all  together,  adding  salt  and  pepper 
plentifully.     Add  orange  when  making  pie. 

THE    DUKE    OF    GLOUCESTER'S    RECIPE    FOR    MINCE 

MEAT. 

Take  3  large  lemons  and  squeeze  the  juice.  Boil  the  rind  and 
the  pulp  in  two  or  three  waters  in  order  to  extract  the  bitterness. 
Pound  in  a  mortar  until  they  are  as  smooth  as  butter.  Add  134  lbs. 
of  beef  suet  free  from  skin  and  chopped  very  fine,  1  lb.  of  currants, 
}i  lb.  of  raisins,  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  %  lb.  of  almonds,  blanched 
and  chopped  very  fine,  y2  lb.  of  citron  cut  in  thin  pieces,  1  large  tum- 
bler of  brandy,  1  lb.  of  chopped  apples,  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  ginger 
each  1  tablespoon,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  wineglasses  of  sherry  and  nearly 
1  qt.  of  cider.  This  is  a  very  old  recipe  and  in  an  old  book,  loaned 
by  a  distinguished  Virginia  family. 


PASTRY  217 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hincklc  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Six  eggs,  1  large  lemon,  9  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of 
water.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the 
lemons,  6  spoons  of  sugar  and  the  water.  Mix  together  and  after 
beating  light,  cook  in  the  custard  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
becomes  a  custard,  then  stir  in  part  of  the  whites  (previously  beaten 
with  the  remaining  3  spoons  of  sugar).  Take  at  once  from  the  fire, 
put  in  dish  or  on  pie  as  desired.  Spread  the  remainder  of  meringue 
on  top  and  brown. 

MINCE    MEAT. 

Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith,  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Three  lbs.  of  fruit  consisting  of  sultana  raisins,  Smyrna  and  citron. 
3  lbs.  of  chopped  apples,  2l/2  lbs.  suet  and  cold  round  of  beef  or 
tongue,  3  lbs.  best  brown  sugar,  6  teaspoons  of  spices  consisting  of 
mace,  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cloves,  also  cinnamon ;  y2  teaspoon  of 
cayenne  pepper,  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  1  oz.  of  preserved  orange 
peel,  ]A  pt.  of  Madeira,  l/2  pt.  of  best  French  brandy,  x/2  pt.  of  old 
Jamaica  spirit.  Mix  all  well  together  and  let  stand  some  days  before 
using.  Cover  a  dish  with  light  puff  paste,  fill  with  mixture.  Cover 
with  paste  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLING. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  F.  Greenwood,  Middletown,  N.  J. 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  pare  and  core  some  apples,  fill  each  apple 
with  a  tablespoon  of  white  sugar.  Place  on  top  of  each  apple  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  Fold  pastry  around  each  apple  and  after  they  are 
placed  in  oven  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Almost 
cover  the  dumplings  with  cold  water.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  to 
each  dumpling  and  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  about  2  hours,  keep  them 
covered  the  first  hour  then  remove  cover.  No  other  sauce  except  that 
in  pan  will  be  necessary. 


218  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  6  eggs,  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  the  rind  finely 
grated,  34  lb-  of  butter.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Bake  in  a  puff  paste  adding  at  the  time  about  6  finely- 
pounded  crackers.  After  baking  lay  over  top  some  finely  cut  pieces 
of  citron  or  preserved  lemon  rind. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edzvard  I.  Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

The  rasping  and  juice  of  3  lemons,  5  eggs,  3  cups  of  white 
sugar,  3  cups  of  water,  3  tablespoons  of  flour.  Keep  out  the  whites 
of  3  of  the  eggs  for  the  top  of  the  pie.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  add  sugar  (pulverized).  After  pie  is  baked  spread  over  the 
top.     Put  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly.     This  is  delicious. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

One  lb.  of  chopped  suet,  i}4  lbs.  chopped  apples,  1  lb.  of  raisins, 
Y-2  lb.  of  currants,  34  lb.  of  citron,  iJ/2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  pt.  of 
wine,  "Y2  pt.  of  brandy,  1  pt.  of  cider,  1  tablespoon  of  nutmeg,  mace, 
allspice,  cloves  and  ginger. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Goodfellow. 

One  lb.  of  beef  or  tongue  or  heart,  1  lb.  of  suet,  1  lb.  of  sugar, 
1  lb.  of  raisins,  1  lb.  of  currants,  "y2  lb.  of  citron,  2  lbs.  of  apples,  1  pt. 
of  wine,  1  pt.  of  brandy,  y2  oz.  of  cinnamon,  1  whole  nutmeg,  34  oz- 
cloves,  34  °z-  mace,  the  rind  of  1  orange  pounded.  Boil  the  meat  be- 
fore chopping,  seed  raisins,  wash  and  pick  the  currants,  slice  citron, 
pare,  core,  and  chop  the  apples.  Mix  together  the  liquids  last.  The 
weight  is  for  the  articles  after  they  are  prepared  for  mixing. 


PASTRY  219 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

For  the  outside,  take  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teacup  of  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  one  third  teaspoonful 
soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonsful  of  milk.  This  makes  two  round 
tins.  For  the  inside,  take  1  teacup  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
beat  together  and  pour  into  a  pint  of  milk  when  boiling.  Season 
with  Yz  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  extract. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Make  a  rich  flaky  pastry.  Take  3  large  sweet  potatoes,  boiled 
and  mashed.  Break  5  eggs,  beat  very  light,  add  to  the  potatoes,  then 
add  'Yz  lb.  of  butter,  34  lb.  of  sugar,  the  grated  peel  of  two  lemons  and 
the  juice  of  one,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  wineglass  of  wine,  1  of  brandy. 
Mix  well  together  and  bake  in  your  pastry. 

MRS.  EDWARD  SHIPPEN'S  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MINCE  PIE. 

Sent  by  Mrs.  Lea,  December  12th,  1796. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadzvalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  beef  or  tongue.  il/>  lbs.  currants,  il/2  lbs.  suet,  1  lb. 
of  raisins,  1  dozen  apples,  sugar,  salt,  wine,  brandy,  spice,  citron,  lime 
juice,  nutmeg,  lemon  peel,  to  your  taste. 

MOLASSES   PIE. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

.     Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia-,  Pa. 

Prepare  regular  pie  crust  in  pan.  Spread  with  brown  sugar  then 
layer  of  molasses,  small  pieces  of  butter,  another  layer  of  crust,  brown 
sugar  and  molasses  and  butter.     Put  in  oven  to  bake. 


220  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CREAM  PIES. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa, 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  6  eggs  separate,  2  tea- 
spoons of  cream  of  tartar  in  with  the  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water;   bake  in  4  jelly  cake  pans. 

Cream  for  the  Pies. 

One  pt.  of  milk  put  on  to  boil  in  farina  boiler,  when  boiling  stir 
in  Y^  of  a  cup  of  flour  or  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  made  smooth 
with  a  little  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  flavor  with  a 
little  vanilla. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Miss  Schuyler,  New  York. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  pumpkin  prepared,  1  pt.  of  milk  boiling,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  large  cup  of  dark  molasses,  pinch  of 
salt  and  mace,  3  tablespoons  of  ginger,  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon. 
Mix  ginger  and  cinnamon  with  a  little  of  the  pumpkin  until  smooth. 
Add  the  boiling  milk,  then  the  pumpkin,  and  boil  15  minutes.  Beat 
4  eggs  light  and  stir  in,  not  boil  as  for  custard.  Put  in  paste  while 
hot.     This  makes  three  large  pies. 

LEMON   PIE. 

Mrs.  Nicholas  Roosevelt,  of  New  York. 

Contributed  through  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring,  Washington,  D.  C. 

One  lemon,  grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice,  1  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Boil  all'  un- 
til quite  stiff.  When  the  pie  is  baked  a  light  brown  cover  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  sugar,  brown  again  in  the 
oven. 


PASTRY 


221 


PUFF  PASTE. 

Mrs.  Rumsey,  Chestnut  Hill,  Pa.,  1800. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  sifted  flour,  l/2  lb.  butter,  y2-  lb.  lard,  pinch  of  salt,  1 
tumbler  ice  water.  Chop  the  lard  into  the  flour  until  fine,  add  water, 
flour  board  well,  roll  out,  divide  butter  into  three  equal  parts,  sprinkle 
one  third  over  paste  in  tiny  pieces,  fold  up  and  pound,  roll  out  again, 
repeat  same  process  three  times,  roll  out  thin,  and  cut  in  pieces  as  de- 
sired, chill  thoroughly  before  using. 

CREAM    PIES. 

Mrs.  Marie  Louise  Bailey,  Philadelphia. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  teacups  of  white  sugar,  2  teacups  of  flour,  6  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  'y2  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 

Cream  for  the  Pies. 

One  pt.  of  milk,  2>Va  cuPs  °f  flour,  H  CUP  °f  sugar>  2  eg'gs,  only 
using  the  yolks.     The  pies  must  be  cold  when  the  cream  is  added. 


PUDDINGS. 


PUDDINGS. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Hacker,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

(This  is  a  very  old  and  good  receipt,  and  if  one  has  paste  in  the 
house,  can  be  used  for  dessert  if  an  unexpected  friend  comes  in  to 
dinner.) 

Quarter  pound  butter,  and  quarter  pound  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  the  yolks  of  3  or  4  eggs  beaten.  Add  to  the  above  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  large;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  last,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven.  The  top  must  be  brown.  Do 
not  put  whites  of  eggs  on  top.  Serve  hot.  Spread  this  mixture 
on  a  good  rich  crust.  Except  for  the  crust,  this  pie  can  be  made 
while  one  is  dining.      (If  lemons  are  small,  three  are  enough.) 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  fourth  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  milk  for  a  half  hour.  Boil 
a  pt.  of  cream,  pour  it  over  the  gelatine,  adding  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen,  stir  in  ']/2  pt.  more 
cream.  Stir  continually  now  till  shape  is  taken.  A  whole  vanilla 
bean  must  be  put  in  the  cream  while  beating,  and  then  taken  out  when 
all  is  cooling. 

FRENCH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Brinton  Coxe,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One-fourth  lb.  sifted  flour,  ]/\  lb.  bread  crumbs,  l/±  lb.  currants, 
%  lb.  raisins,  2  chopped  apples,  a  little  citron,  y2  lb.  suet',  l/2  lb.  of 
sugar,  of  which  half  must  be  browned  to  caramel,  1  small  glass  of 
brandy.     Boil  3^2  hours  in  mould  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 
IS  225 


226  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PUDDING. 

One  of  the  most  famous  recipes  in  the  private  cook  book  of  Mrs. 
Mary  Logan,  widow  of  the  Late  General  John  A.  Logan,  is  for  the 
preparation  of  a  citron  pudding,  which  was  a  great  favorite  with  his 
friends. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  qt.  milk  (fresh),  i  pt.  stale  bread  crumbs  carefully  grated, 
4  eggs»  l  coffee  cup  powdered  sugar,  'y2  lb.  citron  cut  fine,  *4  lb. 
butter,  juice  and  rind  of  i  lemon.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together. 
Add  bread  crumbs,  milk  and  lemon  rind  by  degrees.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  dish,  drop  citron  in  and  place  bits  of  butter  over  all.  Bake 
half  an  hour,  then  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  4  whites,  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Brown  slightly  before 
serving. 

Chestnut  pudding. 

Italian  Recipe  From  Bordighera,  Italy. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  M.  Andrezus,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Boil  Italian  chestnuts,  pass  them  through  a  potato  masher.  Fill 
the  pudding  dish  with  a  layer  of  meringue  (whites  of  eggs  beaten  up 
with  powdered  sugar)  then  cover  the  top  with  chestnuts  and  heap 
around  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  OTIS'  DIRECTIONS  FOR  A  COMMON  INDIAN  PUD- 
DING. 

Contributed  by  Mr.   and  Mrs.  John  Cadwaladcr,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  half  pint  of  fine  Indian  meal,  in  a  clean  pan,  and  pour  on 
it  one  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  it  well,  put  one  spoonful  of  salt, 
and  one  gill  of  molasses.  The  pan  for  baking  must  be  well  buttered 
when  the  pudding  is  put  into  it,  and  when  in  the  pan,  and  ready  for 
baking,  pour  on  it  a  teacup  of  milk,  sweetened  with  molasses.  It 
must  bake  five  or  six  hours,  slowly. 


PUDDINGS  227 

ROYAL  ICED  CABINET  PUDDING. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Sara  Yorke  Stevenson. 

(This  receipt,  when  well  carried  out,  is  fit  for  Kings,  Lucullus  or 
Brillat-Savarin.) 

One  lb.  of  candied  cherries,  y2  lb.  green  gages,  1  lb.  stale  sponge 
cake  y2  lb.  pulverized  sugar,  1  pt.  of  cream,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  tumbler 
of  sherry  (good  wine),  or  maraschino,  6  eggs,  1  vanilla  bean,  1  box 
of  gelatine.  Take  a  mould  with  a  lid  and  place  in  a  pan  of  ice  until 
very  cold.  Soak  the  gelatine,  boil  the  milk,  whip  the  yolks  of  6  eggs 
light,  add  ']/2  lb.  of  sugar.  Strain  the  gelatine  with  the  milk  as  it 
boils,  then  add  the  eggs  and  sugar,  being  careful  it  does  not  curdle. 
When  this  custard  is  cool,  add  the  stiffened  whipped  cream,  and  add 
the  vanilla  bean.  Then  take  your  mould  and  put  in  a  little  of  the 
custard.  Cut  up  cake  and  soak  the  slices  in  the  sherry.  Cut  your 
gages  into  halves  or  quarters,  removing  the  stones.  Put  a  layer  of 
cake,  then  one  of  custard,  then  one  of  the  fruits  and  so  on  until  the 
mould  is  filled.  The  outside  may  be  more  or  less  decorated  with 
fruit,  according  to  taste.  Put  on  ice  for  three  hours  at  least.  Serve 
as  you  would  ice  cream  on  silver  dish  (cold)  and  garnish  with  whipped 
cream  and  fruit. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith,  Reading,  Pa.   (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  Fr alley  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  pints  of  milk  to  one  baked  loaf  of  bread.  Take  half  the 
milk  and  soak  the  bread  in  it.  Work  it  through  the  colander,  using 
the  rest  of  the  milk  to  do  it.  Add  half  pound  butter,  eight  eggs,  and 
sugar  to  taste,  half  of  a  nutmeg,  half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  glass 
of  brandy  and  one  pound  raisins.     The  dish  must  be  well  greased. 

French  Dip  for  the  above  Pudding. 

One  fourth  lb.  butter,  iJ/2  cups  sugar,  beat  very  light,  then  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  cream.     Flavor  to  taste. 


228  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

This  receipt  is  one  of  my  great-grandmother's,  Mrs.  Joseph  B. 
Lapsley. 

Take  i  good-sized  cocoanut,  cut  skin  or  rind  off  (after  it  is  taken 
from  the  shell).  Grate  it  fine,  i  lb.  of  white  sugar  made  into  a  rich 
syrup,  merely  sufficient  water  to  make  it,  using  also  the  milk  of  the 
nut.  Put  grated  nut  into  the  syrup  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Beat 
4  eggs  very  light,  if  you  choose  leave  out  the  whites.  After  the 
cocoanut  is  tolerably  cooled,  beat  whole  mixture  well  together.  Put 
it  in  a  dish  deep  enough  to  hold  the  above,  and  bake  it  from  20  minutes 
to  'y2  hour.  If  a  paste  is  preferred,  this  quantity  will  make  2  pud- 
dings, if  not,  1.  A  little  salt  is  required.  Brandy,  small  quantity,  is 
an  improvement.  A  few  blanched  almonds  stuck  on  top  add  to  the 
appearance  as  well  as  taste. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Mary  Fontaine  Cosby,  Louisville,  Kentucky  (1820). 

Contributed  by  her  great-granddaughter,  Mrs.  Alice  C.  Slaughter, 
Louisville,  Ky.  Through  Miss  Alice  W.  Richardson,  Louis- 
ville, Ky. 

Pour  over  five  teacups  of  bread  crumbs,  enough  scalding  milk- 
to  moisten  them  —  about  a  pint  or  a  little  more  —  add  to  the  bread 
crumbs  and  milk,  two  large  iron  spoonsful  of  flour,  a  teacup  brown 
sugar,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  cup  of  chopped  suet,  four  beaten  eggs,  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  1  of  ginger,  1  of  allspice  and  y2  of  cloves.  Have 
three  teacups  of  raisins  that  have  been  seeded  and  cut  in  half,  the 
same  of  currants  and  a  large  piece  of  citron  sliced  thin,  some  candied 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  some  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  half,  or 
pecans.  At  the  last  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  very 
little  hot  water.  Boil  four  hours.  Stick  blanched  and  split  almonds 
all  over  it,  and  pour  on  some  brandy  or  whiskey  and  burn. 


PUDDINGS  229 

MILK  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.   Deborah   Shoemaker.     1800. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Ellen  Shoemaker  Busby,  Airs.  Duncan  Law- 
rence Busby,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

(This  recipe  was  used  by  my  great-great-grandmother,  and  has 
been  in  our  family  for  more  than  one  hundred  years.) 

One  pint  of  milk,  butter  and  lard  together  the  size  of  an  egg, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  yeast  cake,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Heat  milk,  add  butter,  lard,  salt,  sugar  ami 
yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  y2  cup  lukewarm  water.  Stir  in  flour,  beat 
well  and  stand  away  to  raise  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  In  about 
five  or  six  hours  make  into  small  biscuits,  place  in  pans  and  again 
allow  to  raise.  When  very  light  bake  y2  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 
Care  should  be  taken  that  the  dough  is  very  soft  and  well  beaten 
with  a  wooden  spoon.     It  should  never  be  kneaded. 

DELICIOUS  SNOWDON  PUDDING. 

Llanberis,   Wales. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pound  sugar,  1  lb.  beef  suet,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs,  1  lb. 
lemons  (grate  the  skins  and  squeeze  the  juice),  1  lb.  eggs,  brandy 
according  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  for  about  six  hours. 
The  yolks  only  of  the  eggs  used. 

A  BOILED  RICE  PUDDING. 

From   Her  Great-Grandmother  Rodney's  Receipe  Book. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick,  Germantown,  Philadelphia. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  and  y2  pound  of  raisins.  Tie 
them  in  a  cloth  so  as  to  give  the  rice  room  to  swell.  Boil  it  so  two 
hours  and  serve  it  up  with  melted  butter  and  sugar  and  grated  nut- 
meg thrown  over  it. 


230  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

A  PUDDING. 

By  Miss  Cary  Randolph  of  "  Edgehill,"  Virginia.     A  Great- 
Great-Granddaughter  of  Thomas  Jefferson. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith.     A  Great-Great-Great- 
Granddaughter  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  i  quart  of  cream,  i  teacup  of  white 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  yolks,  sugar 
and  lemon  together  and  stir  in  the  crumbs.  Bake  a  light  brown. 
When  it  is  done  spread  over  the  top  currant  jelly,  or  any  small 
preserve;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  spread  on  top, 
serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

NANTUCKET  INDIAN  MEAL  BANNOCK. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Lydia  S.  Hinchman,  Philadelphia. 

Scald  two  cups  of  Indian  meal  with  one  quart  of  milk,  mix  thor- 
oughly until  perfectly  smooth.  When  cool  add  6  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Bake  one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

NEW  ENGLAND  INDIAN  PUDDING  OR  "  SUNDAY  MORN- 
ING PUDDING." 

Used  by  Elizabeth  Rodman  of  New  Bedford,  1800. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hannah  Fox,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boil  3  quarts  of  milk,  stir  in  1  lb.  of  Indian  meal,  1  tablespoon 
of  salt,  3  gills  of  molasses.  Put  in  a  well  heated  oven  at  5  P.M., 
cover  at  10  P.M. —  let  stay  in  oven  until  morning;  turn  out  of  baking 
pan  and  serve  warm. 

This  pudding  was  originally  made  to  be  baked  in  a  brick  Dutch 
oven  but  can  be  made  in  a  range  with  the  door  left  partly  open  all 
night.  It  is  eaten  for  breakfast  with  cream.  It  should  be  about  the 
consistency  of  hot  corn  meal  mush  and  have  a  jelly-like  deposit  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan. 


PUDDINGS 


231 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

This  receipt  is  from  an  old  book  compiled  by  Mrs.  Goodfellow, 
who  was  famous  in  Philadelphia  in  the  last  century.  Her  receipts 
have  long  been  out  of  print. 

"  Elizabeth  Pyewell." 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  H.  Easby,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Grate  3  or  4  good  sized  raw  sweet  potatoes.  Lay  some  slices 
of  good  butter  in  a  dish,  on  this  sprinkle  some  of  the  grated  pota- 
toes, about  one  half.  Grate  in  the  potatoes  ]/2  a  nutmeg  and  a 
very  little  cinnamon,  and  scatter  over  2  large  spoonfuls  of  brown 
sugar,  then  the  rest  of  the  potatoes,  more  butter  and  sugar  and  mix 
1  wineglass  of  rosewater  and  a  cup  of  cream  together  and  1  wine- 
glass of  wine  and  brandy  mixed.  Stir  all  these  ingredients  well 
together.     Bake  very  slowly  2  hours,  and  serve  hot  as  a  dessert. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  as  many  apples  as  you  can  conveniently  place 
in  your  dish.  Add  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  them  and  2  tablespoons 
of  grated  orange  or  lemon  peel.  When  partly  done  pour  over  them  a 
batter  such  as  you  make  for  light  puddings  and  bake  quickly.  To  be 
eaten  with  sauce. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  chopped  suet,  1  cup  of  milk,  2>Ya 
cups  of  flour  (sifted  before  measuring),  2  eggs,  y^  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  pt. 
of  figs.  Mix  together  molasses,  suet,  spice,  and  figs  cut  fine.  Dis- 
solve soda  with  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water,  and  mix  with  the  milk. 
Add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  light  and  stir  into  mixture. 
Add  flour  and  beat  well.  Butter  the  mould  and  steam  5  hours.  Or 
it  may  be  boiled  3  hours.     Serve  hot  with  foamy  wine  sauce. 


232  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OLD  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

1800. 

Contributed   by  Beatrice   Bickerton-Fox    {Mrs.   L.    Webster   Fox), 

Haverford,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  Demarara  sugar,  1  lb.  black  currants,  1  lb.  of  Sultana 
raisins,  1  lb.  of  Valencia  raisins,  1  lb.  of  French  plums,  1  lb.  of 
apples,  chopped,  1  lb.  of  best  beef  suet,  finely  chopped,  1  lb.  of  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  1  lb.  (6  to  8)  fresh  eggs,  3  oz.  sweet  almonds,  blanched 
and  chopped,  4  lemons,  skin  grated  and  juice,  *4  lb-  of  candied  citron 
peel,  4  large  nutmegs,  grated,  1  gill  of  Jamaica  rum,  1  gill  old  French 
brandy. 

Mix  all  thoroughly  well  together ;  place  in  heavy  porcelain  ba- 
sins tying  each  basin  in  heavy  pudding  cloth ;  boil  4  hours  when  mixed 
and  four  hours  when  used.  Serve  with  hot  sauce  flavored  with 
brandy. 

WHITE  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Half  cup  of  sugar,  ^4  CUP  of  butter,  4  eggs,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  qt. 
of  flour,  very  little  salt,  2  even  tablespoons  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
J/2  cup  citron  cut  fine,  y2  cup  raisins  seeded,  ]/2  cup  currants,  nutmeg 
and  vanilla  flavoring.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar,  butter,  salt,  and 
milk.  Stir  all  in  the  flour  in  which  the  fruit  has  been  mixed.  Just 
before  cooking  stir  in  the  baking  powder.  Boil  or  steam  2  hours. 
To  be  eaten  with  sauce.  Sauce  —  Butter,  sugar,  flour,  and  wine, 
cream  consistency.     Served  hot. 

COCOANUT  BLANC-MANGE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Make  Blanc  Mange  by  ordinary  recipe,  only  a  trifle  sweeter. 
Just  before  taking  off  stove  stir  in  1  grated  cocoanut.  Then  pour 
into  shapes. 


PUDDINGS  233 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Francis  M.  Boykin,  Richmond,  Va. 

Mix  2  soup  plates  of  raisins,  2  of  currants,  2  of  citron  and  a  little 
candied  orange  peel,  2  of  beef  suet,  2  of  bread  crumbs,  2  of  sugar, 
2  of  flour.  These  must  be  heaping  plates;  1  doz.  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately and  1  pt.  of  milk.  If  you  have  only  8  or  9  eggs  it  will  take 
1  qt.  of  milk.  Season  with  a  ]/2  tumbler  of  brandy,  3  or  4  nutmegs 
grated,  2  pinches  of  allspice.  After  mixing  up  the  ingredients,  tie 
the  pudding  up  in  a  strong  cloth  and  boil  7  hours.  This  pudding 
will  keep  for  months  in  the  winter.  Cut  off  a  piece  the  size  you 
wish  to  serve  and  put  in  a  tin  mould.  Put  mould  into  boiling  water 
until  the  pudding  is  hot  through.  Turn  into  a  dish  and  pour  over  a 
little  alcohol  and  set  on  fire.  Serve  with  a  rich  sauce  seasoned  with 
nutmeg  and  brandy.  An  old  and  tried  recipe  and  most  delicious 
one. 

CONTINENTAL  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Albor  Man,  Plattsburg,  N.  Y. —  1806. 

Contributed  by  Mary  Helen  Livingston*  Lloyd, 

Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd,  Havcrford,  Pa. 

One  quart  of  milk,  y2  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs  —  yolks 
only,  1  cup  of  sugar,  small  piece  of  lemon,  grated  rind  of  lemon. 
Bake.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  cup  of  fine  sugar,  add 
juice  of  the  lemon.  When  the  pudding  is  cold  spread  over  it  jelly 
or  sweetmeats,  then  the  meringue  and  brown  lightly.  To  be  eaten 
cold. 

HAMBURG  CREAM. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nciv  York. 

Five  eggs,  2  lemons,  l/2  lb.  powdered  sugar.  Beat  yolks  with 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemons,  also  sugar.  Put  on  fire  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Then  add  quickly  the  whites  beaten  light.  Stir  all 
together,  take  off  and  put  in  shapes  until  cold. 


234  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Brought  from  "  Moi  Ellen "  near  Dublin,  Ireland,  by  my  Great- 
Grandmother,  Mary  Phelps  Robinson,  when  she  came  over  on 
a  visit  in  1830  —  she  being  about  fifty. 

Contributed  by  Mary  Helen  Livingston  Lloyd, 
Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Two  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  suet,  y2  lb.  of 
citron,  8  eggs,  1  large  loaf  of  soft  bread  grated  fine,  1  cup  of  brandy, 
1  cup  of  syrup,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour.  Tie  into  a  cloth  but- 
tered 1 -16  of  an  inch  and  dredged  with  flour  —  making  a  ball  —  then 
boil  three  hours.  Keep  a  plate  under  pudding  in  kettle  to  prevent 
burning.  Turn  out  of  cloth  carefully  while  hot  and  serve  with  burn- 
ing brandy  —  also  use  hard  sauce. 

MARMALADE  PUDDING. 

A.  M.  Lewis,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia. 

1  breakfast  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  breakfast  cup  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  of  marmalade,  1  tablespoon 
of  cream,  1  wineglass  of  brandy.  Mix  well  together.  Butter  the 
mould  well  and  sift  a  little  white  sugar  over  it.     Steam  for  4  hours. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Soak  4  small  tablespoons  of  tapioca  (not  the  pearl)  in  a  quart 
of  fresh  milk  over  night.  The  next  morning  put  this  on  the  fire 
in  a  farina  kettle,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  sugar  to  your  taste.  A  wineglass  of  brandy, 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  grated  peel  of  1  lemon,  then  add  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Heat  the  whole  mixture  in  a  farina  kettle, 
then  pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  for  y2  an  hour  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water. 


PUDDINGS 


235 


FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

Six  ounces  of  chopped  apples,  6  ounces  of  bread  cr«mbs,  6 
ounces  of  beef  suet  picked  fine  and  chopped,  6  ounces  of  sugar.  6 
ounces  of  raisins  (seeded),  6  ounces  of  currants,  6  eggs,  and  a 
little  citron  sliced  fine.  Put  all  together  and  boil  in  a  close  form  3 
or  4  hours.  Sauce  for  pudding.  Mix  well  J4  pound  of  sugar,  2 
ounces  of  butter  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  draw  off  the 
fire  and  add  when  not  too  hot,  1  beaten  egg.  Have  a  wineglass  of 
sherry  and  add  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.       ' 

POTATO  PUDDING,  VERY  GOOD. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed   by  Mrs.  James   T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

One  half  lb.  of  butter,  ']/2  lb.  of  sugar,  y2  lb.  Irish  mashed  potato, 
l/2  gill  of  cream,  5  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  1 
teaspoon  of  nutmeg  and  1  of  cinnamon,  y2  glass  of  good  brandy. 
Mash  potatoes  with  butter  and  cream  and  when  cold  add  other  in- 
gredients and  bake  in  puff  paste. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Councill,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

Sixteen  eggs,  1  cup  of  flour,  1V2  lbs.  of  muscatel  raisins,  i>)4 
lbs.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  sultana  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  3  lbs. 
of  bread  crumbs,  2  lbs.  finely  chopped  suet,  6  ounces  of  candied 
orange  peel,  the  same  of  lemon  and  citron,  1  oz.  ground  nutmeg,  1  oz. 
cinnamon,  y>  powdered  bitter  almond,  }4  Pmt  of  brandy.  Stone  and 
cut  the  raisins,  do  not  chop  them ;  cut  the  candied  peel  in  thin  slices. 
Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  first ;  then  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  strain 
into  the  pudding.  Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  put  in  last.  Boil  6  or  8 
hours. 


236  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Vogels. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Twdve  eggs  well  beaten,  12  spoonfuls  of  flour,  12  spoonfuls  of 
sugar,  1  lb.  of  beef  suet,  1  lb.  of  stoned  raisins,  y2  lb.  of  currants,  y^. 
lb.  of  citron,  1  wineglass  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  1  nutmeg,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  ']/2  wineglass  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Beat 
the  eggs  well,  chop  the  suet  fine  and  mix  by  degrees,  flour,  sugar,  etc., 
and  last  of  all  the  wine  and  spices.  Beat  the  mixture  thoroughly  and 
tie  your  bag  close  to  the  mixture  and  boil  8  hours.     Sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Mix  butter,  flour  and  plenty  of  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  y2  lb. 
of  sugar,  *4  lb.  of  butter,  y2  pt.  of  water,  wine  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Boil  the  sauce  well. 

BOILED  FLOUR  PUDDING. 

R.  T.  West. 

One  pint  milk,  flour  enough  to  thicken,  little  salt,  3  eggs  beaten 
separately,  yolks  put  in  first,  even  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in 
a  little  warm  water,  a  very  small  piece  of  butter,  and  lastly  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Boil  1  hour  in  mould  or  bag  in  boiling  water 
and  flour  the  inside  of  it. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

E.    W.    HORSTMAN. 

Contributed   by  Mrs.    Walter  D.   Horstman,   Philadelphia. 

One  quarter  lb.  of  butter  (melted),  }i  lb.  of  sugar,  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  tumbler  full  of  wine.  Boil  all  together  a  few  minutes.  Mix 
in  1  pint  of  the  juice  of  fresh  strawberries. 


PUDDINGS 


237 


LEMON  KISS   PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  lemons,  4  eggs,  two  thirds  of  a  tumbler  of  boiled  milk.  10 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Grate  the  lemons  and  to  the  rinds  and  juice 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  sugar,  and  the  milk.  Stir  quickly 
together,  have  ready  a  baking  dish  lined  with  paste,  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  it.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  done.  About  a  half  an  hour 
is  usually  required.  Then  cover  the  whole  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Brown 
delicately  in  the  oven.  This  pudding  is  very  nice  cold  as  well  as  hot, 
and  the  same  quantity  will  make  two  or  three  pies,  which  should  be 
covered  with  the  meringue  in  the  same  way. 

PERFECTION    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  G.  H.  Ellerbe,  New  Orleans,  a  Famous  Southern 

Housekeeper. 

Two  lbs.  of  cup  cake  crumbs  or  sponge  cake,  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  t 
lb.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  citron,  1  cup  of  shelled  pecans,  1  cup  of 
blanched  almonds,  1  tablespoonful  level  of  allspice,  the  same  of  ginger. 
2  teaspoons  of  cloves,  2  teaspoons  of  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of 
butter,  y2  cup  of  brandy.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  eggs 
one  at  a  time,  then  flour  and  milk,  then  cake  crumbs  toasted  and 
ground.  Soak  spices  in  brandy  and  add  to  mixture.  Cut  almonds 
and  pecans  in  rather  large  pieces  and  citron  in  thin  slices,  seed  raisins, 
wash  currants,  and  add  to  batter.  Put  in  pudding  mould  and  boil 
steadily  for  5  hours.  Serve  with  liquid  sauce,  seasoned  with  brandy 
and  whipped  cream.  When  pudding  is  placed  on  table  pour  brandy 
over  it  and  light.  This  greatly  improves  flavor  and  makes  an  ideal 
Christmas  dish.  This  receipt  has  been  used  many  years  and  is  in- 
fallible. About  34  the  quantity  will  make  a  pudding  to  fill  a  1  lb. 
yeast  powder  can  which  makes  a  good  mould. 


238  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ENGLISH    XMAS.    PUDDING. 

London,  England,  1800. 

The  English  make  several  puddings  early  in  the  winter  and  use 
them  as  they  require  them.  They  consider  that  they  are  better  if  kept- 
some  time  before  using. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Charles  C.  Duggin,  New  York. 

One  lb.  raisins,  1  of  currants,  1  of  Sultanas,  1  of  orange  and 
citron  candied  peel  mixed,  and  1  of  suet,  a  pinch  of  salt,  8  oz.  flour, 
8  oz.  bread  crumbs,  ^4  lb.  sugar,  1  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  mixed 
spices,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  10  eggs,  brandy  to  taste.  When  well 
mixed,  pack  closely  in  bowl  and  tie  very  tightly  in  cloth.  Boil  5  or  6 
hours.  Can  be  kept  for  months  without  removing  the  cloth,  and 
when  required  can  be  heated  by  boiling  for  an  hour  before  serving. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,  Philadelphia. 

One  lb.  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  1  lb.  of  crackers,  1  lb.  of  sugar. 
1  lb.  of  citron,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  8  eggs,  1  coffee  cup  of  brandy  and 
wine  mixed,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  of 
mixed  spices,  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Divide  it  into  small  puddings. 
Steam  5  hours.     When  wanted  steam  1  hour. 

PLUM   PUDDING. 
A  very  old  recipe.  . 
Miss  Schuyler,  New  York. 
Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Coffee  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  lb.  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  1 
lb.  of  dried  bread  crumbs,  6  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
allspice,  a  little  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  1  nutmeg,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  lb. 
of  currants,  1  lb.  of  dried  raisins,  *4  lb.  of  citron  well  dredged  with 
flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs  last.  Boil  be- 
tween 4  and  5  hours. 


PUDDINGS  239 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

H.    HORTON,    GODERICH,    LAKE    HURON. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia. 

One  lb.  of  raisins,  y  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
1  lb  of  currants,  y  lb.  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  ]/2  nutmeg  grated, 
34  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  5  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  y2  pint  of 
brandy,  y2  lb.  minced  candied  orange  peel.  Mix  all  dry  ingredients 
together.  Beat  the  eggs,  then  add  them  to  the  brandy  and  thoroughly 
mix  all  together.     Boil  6  hours ;  this  will  make  6  pounds. 

ECONOMICAL  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  and  one  half  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of 
grated  suet.  1  cup  stoned  raisins.  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  grated  carrots. 
1  cup  of  grated  potatoes,  y±  cup  minced  orange  peel,  spices  and 
flavoring  to  taste. 

Sauce. 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  2  tablespoons  butter,  y2  cup  brown 
sugar,  4  tablespoons  grape  or  apple  jelly,  spices  and  flavoring  to  taste. 
Beat  cornstarch,  sugar  and  butter  together  in  a  saucepan  at  a  mod- 
erate heat,  wet  with  hot  water  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  hot  water 
as  required  and  boil  until  cornstarch  is  cooked.  Equal  to  any  plum 
pudding. 

i 

SWEETMEAT  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cover  your  dish  with  a  puff  paste,  take  candied  lemon  peel, 
orange  and  citron  of  each  1  ounce  sliced  very  thin.  Lay  on  bot- 
tom of  your  dish.  Beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  2  whites,  y2  lb.  of 
sugar,  y2  lb.  of  butter,  a  little  mace.  Beat  all  well  together,  when 
the  oven  is  ready  pour  it  over  the  sweetmeats.  One  hour  or  less  will 
bake  it.  the  oven  must  not  be  too  hot. 


2'4o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Grandmother  Hannah  Wadsworth. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  quart  milk,  one  third  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal,  i  cup  sugar,  i 
cup  molasses,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter,  ]/2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Heat  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  stir  in  the  meal  and  let  it  just 
boil.  Remove  from  .the  fire  and  add  butter,  sugar  and  molasses. 
When  it  is  cooler,  add  the  eggs,  etc.  Bake  in  rather  slow  oven  for 
about  an  hour.  Serve  with  butter  for  a  sauce.  Some  put  raisins 
in  the  pudding. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  R.  Watson,  Houston,  Tex. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Tex. 

Dissolve  'Yz  box  of  gelatine  in  a  tea  cup  of  cold  water,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  pt.  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  qt.  of  milk,  4  eggs, 
1  cup  of  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Soak  gelatine  1  hour,  add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  melted.  Add 
lemon  juice,  sugar,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  milk  and  wine.  Beat 
15  minutes.     Pour  in  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers.      Set  on  ice. 

ICED  RICE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia. 

One  cup  of  rice  well  boiled  in  1  cup  of  water,  then  mashed 
smooth,  add  1  qt.  of  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  rind  of  one  lemon,  5 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Put  on  fire  and  stir  until  boiled  to  a  custard, 
then  turn  into  a  shallow  dish.  Beat  light,  whites  of  3  eggs  with 
juice  of  1  lemon,  6  spoons  sugar.  Pour  on  the  custard  and  let  brown 
in  the  oven. 


PUDDINGS  241 

A  DELICIOUS  DESSERT. 

H.  Herton,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.,  Philadelphia, 

One  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  in  plenty  of  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  off  most  of  the  water,  place  on  back  of  stove,  cook 
until  clear.  Add  to  this  when  about  half  cooked  one  tin  of  grated 
or  shredded  pineapple,  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  cups  of  sugar,  and  whites 
of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Russell  Robinson,  Nelson  County,  Va. 

l/2  lb  bread  crumbs,  l/2  lb.  figs,  6  oz.  brown  sugar,  *4  lb-  suet. 
2  oz.  flour,  2  chopped  apples,  enough  milk  to  make  a  batter,  6  eggs 
well  beaten,  ]/2  nutmeg.     Boil  4  hours. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.  William  Coxe. 

Boil  12  good  sized  potatoes,  mash  them  very  smooth.  Mix  them 
while  hot  with  1  qt.  of  flour  (no  water),  beat  well  with  flour  and 
roll  it  out.  Pare  and  core  apples,  put  a  little  cinnamon  or  grated 
lemon  or  orange  peel  in  the  hole  from  which  the  core  is  taken.  Roll 
the  paste  thin,  wrap  and  tie  each  apple  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  them. 

CUP  CUSTARD. 

Ellen  Gallagher. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J  Falter  Horstmann,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  1  qt.  of  milk  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of 
brandy,  sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the 
brandy,  and  the  scalded  milk,  put  into  cups  in  a  pan  of  water,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 

16 


242 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


CHERRY  ROLL. 
Mrs.  Heloise  Minor,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.   Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Six  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes,  i  large  spoonful  of  butter,  y2 
teaspoon  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  paste.  Mash  potatoes  smooth. 
Add  butter  and  salt,  then  the  flour.  Roll  it  out  in  a  strip  longer  than 
wide.  Lay  over  it  the  fruit.  Roll  it  up  and  tie  in  a  floured  bag.  It 
must  boil  steadily  i  hour  and  water  boiling  when  put  in.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  AND  CANNED  PEACHES. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  New  York. 

Soak  'y2  a  pt.  of  tapioca  several  hours  or  over  night  in  y2  a  pt. 
of  water.  Fill  a  baking  dish  two  thirds  full  of  peaches  taken  out  of 
syrup,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  from  20  to  3b  minutes.  .  Add 
Yz  a  pt.  of  peach  syrup  to  the  tapioca  and  when  it  boils  add  1 
gill  of  boiling  water,  1  gill  of  white  sugar,  pour  over  peaches  and 
bake   half   an   hour. 

RED  RICE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  flour,  y2  lb.  suet  chopped  fine,  Y\  lb.  dried  currants,  pinch 
of  salt  mixed  with  the  flour.  Mix  with  water  rather  stiff.  Make 
into  dumplings  and  roll  in  dry  flour.  Drop  into  boiling  water  and 
boil  about  1  hour. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Lucy  Detwiler. 

Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldzuin,  West  Orange,  N.  J. 

Pour  1  pt.  of  boiling  milk  over  y2  pt.  of  sifted  Indian  meal  with 
34  cup  of  butter  in  'y2  cup  of  sugar,  add  y2  cup  of  molasses  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  When  cool  stir  in  3  well  beaten  eggs,  add  cinnamon, 
nutmeg  and  brandy.  Beat  the  whole  well,  pour  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish,  bake  1  hour,  serve  hot  with  wine  sauce. 


PUDDINGS 


24; 


PLUM  PUDDING. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Six  eggs,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  suet  chopped  fine, 
]/2  lb.  white  bread  crumbs,  l/2  lb.  flour,  l/2  lb.  citron,  1  pt.  sherry 
or  Madeira,  1  pt.  milk,  1  tablespoonful  ginger,  ]/2  an  orange 
peel  chopped  fine,  and  l/2  a  lemon  peel.  Put  in  a  mould  or  tie  in  a 
cloth,  and  boil  for  6  to  8  hours  if  in  a  cloth,  but  longer  if  in  a  mould. 

"ADAM'S   PUDDING." 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  S.   Cramp,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Grate  8  mellow  apples,  x/2  a  lb.  of  sugar,  l/2  a  lb.  of  butter,  3  eggs, 
T4  lb.  of  grated  bread,  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  full  of  vanilla  and  bake  a 
half  hour.  The  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  until  they  stand  alone, 
shake  1  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beating  all  the  time  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  1  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  put  on  top  of  pudding,  brown  in  quick  oven  5  minutes. 
This  pudding  may  be  eaten  hot  with  cream. 

A  QUAKING  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs-.  lames  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  pint  of  cream.  6  eggs,  half  the  whites,  beat  well  and  mix 
with  the  cream.  Add  ]/2  nutmeg  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  the 
crumbs  of  a  light  loaf  and  1  tablespoon  of  rice  flour  first  mixed  with 
a  little  of  the  cream.  Butter  a  cloth  well  and  flour  it,  put  in  your 
mixture.  Do  not  tie  it  too  closely.  Have  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
ready,  put  in  and  let  it  remain  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 


244  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

RICE  PUDDING. 
Contributed   by  Mrs.   Portieux  Robinson,   Richmond,    Va. 

Beat  6  eggs  with  12  tablespoons  of  sugar,  then  add  gradually 

2  teacups  of  rice  that  has  been  boiled  soft  and  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  (heaping).  Season  with  grated  nutmeg  or  lemon.  Add  at 
last  1  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Put  in  dish  and  place  in  oven. 
When  you  put  it  in  cover  so  it  will  not  brown  too  quickly.  Just  as 
soon  as  done  remove  from  oven  as  it  becomes  watery. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller.  • 

One  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  2l/2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  a  little  candied  lemon, 
chopped.     Boil  3  hours. 

NEST  PUDDING. 

Marie  Louise  Hoxie,  1859. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Make  the  foundation  of  jelly  or  blanc  mange,  rasp  the  skin  of 

3  lemons  and  preserve  it.  Lay  it  around  in  the  jelly  like  straw. 
Take  out  the  contents  of  4  eggs  through  a  small  hole.  Fill  the 
shell  with  blanc  mange.  When  cold  break  off  the  shells  and  lay  the 
blanc  mange  eggs  in  the  nest. 


SAUCES   FOR   PUDDINGS. 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

FOAMY     SAUCE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  1  cup  of 
cream,  y2  a  cup  of  sherry.  Beat  eggs  to  a  cream,  adding  sugar 
gradually,  also  the  cream  whipped  lightly,  then  the  wine  and  beat  all 
together. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   John   Poe.   Baltimore,  Md. 

One  quarter  lb.  chocolate,  2  teacups  sugar,  one  third  cup  milk. 
Heat  milk,  add  grated  chocolate ;  heat  thoroughly,  then  add  sugar. 
Cook  in  hot  water  until  thick.  Add  teaspoon  vanilla  and  lump  of 
butter  or  tablespoon  butter.      Place  on  and  between  layers  of  cake. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Six  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar,   l/2  lb.  of  butter,  worked  to 
a  cream,  then  add  1  egg  beaten  light,  1  wineglass  of  wine  or  brandy, 
1  nutmeg  grated.     Let  boil  hard  10  minutes. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  FOR  TARTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

One  lb.  pulverized  sugar,  *4  lb.  butter,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  whites 
of  4,  juice  and  rinds  of  3  lemons.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  then  add  whites  unbeaten  one  at  a  time.  Beat  the  whole  very 
light.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  this  to  it.  Now  put  into  a 
bowl  and  stand  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  thickens,  take 
off  and  let  cool. 

247 


248  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  Frailey  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

i  tablespoon  butter,  I  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  wineglass 
sherry,  a  little  nutmeg.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  very  light 
cream  and  add  the  eggs,  first  well  beaten.  Then  the  sherry  little  by 
little,  and  nutmeg.  Stand  the  bowl  into  the  top  of  a  boiling  tea  kettle, 
beating  all  the  time  rapidly  till  it  softens,  but  not  melts  at  the  bottom, 
say  for  1  or  2  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

YELLOW  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Cream  ]/\  cup  of  butter.  Add  gradually  1  cup  powdered  sugar. 
When  light  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  whites  of  2  beaten 
light.     Flavor  with  sherry.     Stand  in  bowl  in  pan  of  boiling  water. 

SAUCE  FOR  CAKES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

Mrs.  Edward  Fisher,  Lee  Camp,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Norman  Randolph,  Richmond,  Va. 
One  half  cup   of  butter   and    1    tablespoonful   of  flour   rubbed 
together;  1   cup  of  white  sugar,   1  pt.  hot  water.      Boil  until  some- 
what thick.     Season  with  vanilla,  mace  or  brandy. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  B.  M.  Angle,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Norman  Randolph,  Richmond,  Va. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter  worked  to  cream  with  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar.  Pour  into  it  a  pint  of  rum  or  wine,  and  boiling  water.  Boil 
10  minutes  and  keep  hot  until  needed. 


CAKES. 


CAKES. 

MOLASSES  CHEESE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Alice  Cabell  Palmer,  Nelson  County,  Va. 

Pastry,  2  ordinary  coffee  cups  of  flour,  ]/2  teaspoon ful  salt  sifted 
together.  Work  in  1  coffee  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Lastly 
add  l/2  coffee  cup  ice  water.  Divide  into  three  after  mixing  and  roll 
out  very  thin.  This  amount  of  pastry  will  line  three  pie  plates  six 
inches  in  diameter.  Get  all  the  materials  for  the  filling  before  you  be- 
gin the  pastry.  After  rolling  out  and  lining  the  plates  in  the  stove, 
which  must  be  at  degree  of  heat  suitable  to  cook  biscuit,  then  as 
quickly  as  you  can  work  together  in  a  bowl  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla.  Beat  whites  and  yellows  of 
eggs  separately,  mix  together  in  another  bowl.  Add  cup  sweet  milk 
with  dessert  spoonful  of  cornstarch.  Add  this  to  the  sugar,  butter 
and  molasses.  Beat  for  a  few  minutes  and  fill  the  pie  plates  in  the 
stove.  Cooking  the  pastry  a  few  minutes  before  adding  the  filling 
prevents  the  pastry  from  having  a  heavy,  soggy  look.  In  summer  use 
2l/2  cups  flour  to  cup  of  lard  and  butter.  Cook  until  well  risen  and 
brown  on  top. 

CRULLERS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Edwin  I.   Clinton,   Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  cup  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  8  eggs,  y2  tea  cup  sour  cream, 
a  little  saleratus  in  half  the  milk,  flour  enough  to  roll  them  out,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  mace. 

APEAS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

One  half  lb.  of  butter,  l/2  lb.  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  lb.  of  flour,  a  little 
water,  y^  teaspoon  of  soda.  Roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

251 


252  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Paul  C.  Lee,  Birmingham,  Alabama. 

i  lb.  of  sugar,  $4  lb.  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  i  teaspoon 
of  cream  tartar  level,  j4  lb.  of  flour,  'j4  lb.  of  cornstarch,  10  eggs. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter  very  light,  mix  cream  tartar  in  a  little  water 
and  add  it  to  the  10  eggs  one  at  a  time  stirring  in  but  not  beating. 
Sift  flour  and  cornstarch  thoroughly  together  and  add  to  batter.  Last 
of  all  sift  in  soda  very  carefully.  Flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla. 
Bake  in  biscuit  pan,  cut  in  squares  and  ice. 

GRAND  DUKE  CAKE. 
Mrs.  Alex  Delgado,  New  Orleans. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Tex. 

(White  part)  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  l/2  cup  cornstarch,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon. 

(Dark  part)  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  r/2  cup  milk,  l/2 
cup  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  tablespoon  of 
molasses,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  mixed  spices. 
Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans  and  put  boiled  icing  in  between. 

GINGER     SNAPS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

1  pt.  molasses,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  ginger,  1  allspice, 
5  cups  flour  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 

FRENCH  DOUGHNUTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezv  York. 

One  quarter  lb.  of  sifted  flour,  2  oz.  butter  in  pan  with  a  gill  of 
water.  When  boiling  stir  in  the  flour,  stir  until  very  thick,  then  take 
off  and  let  cool.  Then  add  4  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well.  Drop 
in  deep  boiling  lard  and  roll  in  cinnamon  and  pulverized  sugar. 


CAKES  253 

DOLLY  MADISON'S  WHIM. 
A  Very  Old  Recipe. 
This  is  Mrs.  Dolly's  own  favorite  cake,  and  was  taken  from  the 
original  book. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
One  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  raisins 
stoned  and  chopped,  6  eggs  and  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  1  nutmeg, 
a  tablespoon  of  mace,  1  dessertspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  wineglass 
of  hot  water.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  sugar  together,  add  the  butter,  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  alternately  with  the  flour,  then  the  brandy  and  the  nutmeg  and 
lastly  the  soda.  Stir  the  whole  mixture  lightly  and  quickly  and  bake 
in  a  deep  pan  with  the  same  heat  required  for  pound  cake. 

SAND  TARTS. 
Mrs.  Washington  Hopkins,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Two  lbs.  of  flour,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  rubbed  together,  1*4  lbs.  of 
butter,  wet  them  with  3  eggs,  roll  them  out,  then  sprinkle  cinnamon 
and  sugar  over  them  and  put  on  tins  with  a  blanched  almond  put  in 
the  middle  of  each  cake.     They  must  be  rolled  out  very  thin. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  Duggin,  New  York. 
Six  eggs,  'T/2  lb.  of  powdered  sugar,  y[  lb.  of  flour  sifted.     Beat 
yolks  of  eggs  together  until  very  light.     Beat  whites  until  they  stand 
alone.     Add  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks,  stir  flour  in  very  lightly. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
Contributed  by  Airs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
2  cups  sugar,   1   cup  sour  cream,   1  teaspoon  saleratus,  3  eggs, 
flour  enough  to  make  them  stiff ;  swim  in  lard. 


254  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  lb.  of  butter,  2  teacups  of  sugar,  6  eggs,  one  pint  of 
molasses,  6  teacups  of  flour,  1  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  cream,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  other  spices  to  the  taste,  1  wine- 
glass of  brandy.     Lemon  or  orange  peel  grated. 

CURRANT  DUMPLINGS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

A  Danish  dish  brought  from  the  Island  of  Santa  Cruz. 
One  and  a  half  pints  red  currants,  y2  lb.  raspberries.     Stew  the 
currants  gently  until  the  juice  flows  freely,  add  raspberries  just  before 
the  currants  are  done,  strain,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  ground  rice  as  for 
blanc-mange.     Put  in  mould -and  serve  cold  with  cream. 

RAILROAD  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  two  thirds  cup  butter,  beat  well  together,  3  cups  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  1^ 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar. 

A  FAMOUS  RECIPE,  LEMON  PUFF.     A  DELICIOUS  DES- 
SERT. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Three  oz.  butter,  3  oz.  flour,  3  oz.  sugar,  8  eggs,  il/2  pts.  milk. 
Stir  sugar  and  butter  and  flour  on  fire  in  a  nice  saucepan  until  well 
mixed,  then  have  ready  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  this  in  gradually.  Put 
all  on  fire  and  cook  until  you  think  done,  stirring  all  the  time.  Set 
saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  it  is  less  apt  to  burn,  then  pour 
this  into  bowl.  When  quite  cool  stir  in  seasoning,  either  acid  of  2 
lemons  or  juice  of  1,  or  chocolate,  or  whatever  you  like.  Then  stir 
in  8  yolks,  then  the  whites  beaten  very  light.  Pour  into  baking 
dish  and  bake  25  or  30  minutes.     Eaten  either  cold  or  hot. 


CAKES  255 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Twelve  eggs,  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  flour, 
1  lb.  of  raisins,  1  lb.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  citron,  2  nutmegs  grated 
fine,  1  tablespoon  of  mace  and  cloves,  y2  tumbler  of  brandy,  1  wine- 
glass of  sherry.     Flour  your  fruit  before  stirring  into  mixture. 

DUTCH  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

One  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  4  eggs, 
1  cup  of  yeast,  -)4  cup  of  butter,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
]/2  nutmeg,   1  cup  of  currants  or  raisins. 

GINGER  NUTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,   Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  y2  lb.  of 
ginger,  1  qt.  of  molasses,  allspice,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Add 
flour  last,  roll  thin  and  bake  in  small  cakes. 

CINDERELLA  PUFFS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Edwin   I.   Clinton,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Six  eggs  beaten  until  very  light,  add  6  tablespoons  of  flour,  add 
1  qt.  of  milk.  Bake  in  buttered  cups  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes.  To 
be  served  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  B.  F.  Had  duck,  Chicago,  Ills. 

One  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  l/2  lb.  of  butter,  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
bicarb,  of  Soda,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  1  tablespoon  cinnanom,  1 
saucer  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  pinch  of  salt. 


256  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ALMOND   CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  '^2 
cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  rubbed  in  the  flour,  l/2  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in.  milk,  blanch  a'nd  slice  *4  1°-  °t  almonds.  After 
putting  the  cake  in  a  square  stove  pan  in  oven  spread  the  almonds  over 
the  top  of  cake  and  sprinkle  also  over  cake  white  sugar.  When  done 
cut  in  squares. 

QUAKER  CAKE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,,  Pa. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  5  cups  of  flour,  6  eggs  and 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add 
eggs  and  flour  alternately,  last  add  baking  soda. 

JUMBLES. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  lb.  of  butter,  y2  lb.  of  sugar,  a  little  over  y2  lb.  of  flour, 
the  whites  of  2  eggs,  rasping  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  Drop  them  in  a 
pan  with  a  spoon. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  J.   Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
cream,  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  saleratus.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  the  rest.     Bake  a  little  over  an  hour. 

GINGER  POUND  CAKE. 

One  half  butter  creamed,  add  y2  lb  of  brown  sugar,  r  pint  of 
molasses  added,  alternate  with  5  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  1  tea  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  of  cinnamon. 


CAKES  257 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  sugar  granulated,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  lemon,  10  eggs, 
beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten  very  stiff,  then  flour  gradually, 
then  rind  and  juice  of  lemon.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

HERMITS. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Marie  L.  Minor,  Nezv  York. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  3  eggs,  two  thirds  cup  butter,  1  even 
teaspoon  ginger,  1  scant  teaspoon  cloves,  1  even  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  even  teaspoons  soda,  2  full  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar,  1  package  seeded  raisins.  Mix  creamed  butter  with 
sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  scalded  soda,  then  stir  in  sifted  flour 
with  cream  of  tartar  and  salt.  Wash  raisins,  dry,  chop  coarsely  and 
flour.  Mix  raisins  and  spices  with  dough,  and  last  of  all  fold  in 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.     Put  1  teaspoon  of  dough  in  pan. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  lb.  shortening,  half  lard  and  half  butter,  1  %  lbs.  sugar,  1  pt. 
milk,  4  eggs,  1  pt.  milk  sponge  made  as  follows :  1  cup  scalded  milk, 
1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  beaten  together,  then  add  1  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  %  cup  yeast,  2  cups  flour,  and  beat  it  well.  Mix  the  sponge 
in  the  morning,  and  let  it  stand  until  night,  when  the  other  ingredi- 
ents should  be  added,  and  the  whole  left  to  rise  until  the  next  morn- 
ing. When  risen,  cut  the  dough  into  diamond  shaped  squares  about 
1  inch  thick,  let  them  rise  20  minutes,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard,  into 
which  a  potato,  washed  clean,  has  been  put  to  prevent  the  cakes  from 
burning.  The  lard  must  be  boiling  hot,  and  deep  enough  to  cover  the 
doughnuts  entirely. 


258  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHARLOTTE  POLONAISE  — A  DELICIOUS  RECIPE. 

Miss  Looney,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Judge  L.  L.  Lewis,  Richmond,  Va. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  batter,  1  pt.  of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  flour  sifted 
twice  and  light  measure,  1 1  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs  then  the  well  beaten  whites,  last  the  flour.  Bake 
in  layers.  Filling,  make  1  pt.  of  rich  boiled  custard,  mix  a  teacup 
of  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  of  blanched  almonds  broken  into  small  pieces. 
y2  cup  of  citron.  Put  this  into  the  custard,  add  a  wineglass  of  wine 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  this  between  the  layers  of  cake  and  ice 
the  whole  with  white  boiled  icing.  The  filling  should  be  the  con- 
sistency of  jelly.     This  is  delicious. 

WHORTLEBERRY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Six  eggs,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  ^4  lb.  of  butter,  1  qt.  of  flour,  y2  pt. 
sifted  meal,  1  wineglass  of  brandy,  2  tablespoons  of  allspice,  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Mix  altogether  and  just  before  you  bake  add  1  qt. 
of  berries  dusted  with  flour.     Mix  the  soda  with  y2  pt.  of  sweet  milk. 

NUMBER   CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Jennie  Williams,  Orange,  N.  J. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
in  the  flour. 

MOLASSES  POUND  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  fourths  lb.  of  sugar,  }£  lb.  of  butter,  2  lbs.  of  flour,  6  eggs, 
1  qt.  of  molassess,  T/2  lb.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  2  tablespoons 
ginger,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  of  saleratus. 


CAKES  259 

A  FAMOUS  BRIDE'S  CAKE  MADE  FOR  MANY  YEARS  IN 

RICHMOND,  VA. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Forty-two  eggs,  whites,  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  2*4  lbs.  of  butter,  2*4 
lbs.  of  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  other  ingre- 
dients, also  small  teaspoon  baking  powder,  season  with  bitter  almond. 
More  brides  have  used  this  receipt  for  wedding  cake  than  can  be 
counted. 

SAND  TARTS  — AN  OLD  PHILADELPHIA  RECIPE. 

Contributed  by  Miss  M.  M.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  lbs.  of  flour,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  1 14  lbs.  of  butter,  5  eggs.  Mix 
ingredients  together  leaving  out  white  of  egg,  l/2  lb.  of  blanched 
almonds.  Roll  out  cakes,  wash  them  well  with  white  of  egg  beaten 
stiff.  Stick  them  full  of  pieces  of  almond.  Powder  them  with  cin- 
namon, sugar  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKE. 
Good  Old  Receipt. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   IV.  Hincklc  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  powdered  sugar,  12  ounces  of  butter,  gill  of  cream, 
4  eggs,  1  dessertspoon  of  powdered  mace,  same  of  cinnamon,  1  wine- 
glass of  brandy.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the 
eggs,  then  cream  and  spice.  Knead  in  just  enough  flour  to  roll  them 
thin.     Cut  in  shapes  and  bake. 

CREAM   SPONGE  CAKE  : 

Contributed  by  Miss  Frances  Virginia  Baldwin,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup,  beat  the  eggs  well,  then  fill  the  cup  with 
thick  sweet  cream  containing  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  x/z  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour. 


26o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHEESE   CAKE. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Livingston,  Grasmere,  Rhinebeck,  N.  Y.    (1875). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  lb.  almonds  blanched  and  pounded.  As  you  pound  them, 
add  rose  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling.  The  whites  of  3  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  extract  bitter  almonds. 
Stir  all  together.  Line  patty  pans  with  puff  paste  and  fill  with  the 
mixture.  The  oven  must  be  quick,  but  not  too  hot,  as  the  mixture 
is  apt  to  burn.     Watch  them  during  baking.     Serve  cold. 

CINNAMON  JUMBLES. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  granulated  sugar,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1 J/2  lbs. 
flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon.  To  make  the  cakes  roll  a  small 
piece  of  the  dough  between  the  hands  very  lightly,  and  join  the  two 
ends,  making  a  ring.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OLD  FASHIONED  MIXTURE  FOR  MEHITABLE  CAKE, 

Mrs.  Edward  Williams,  Orange,  N.  J.  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Ezra  Williams,  West  Orange,  N.  J. 

Rub  together  1  qt.  of  sifted  flour,  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  1  small  spoonful  of  salt,  2 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar.  Dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  pt. 
of  milk,  break  2  eggs  into  the  flour  and  add  the  milk  and  soda.  Stir 
quickly  and  deftly  and  pour  into  square  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Haverford,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  milk,  4  eggs,  2 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 


CAKES  261 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mazer,  Pa. 

Twelve  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar,  10  oz.  flour,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  and  very  well,  and  put 
the  sugar  in  the  yolks.  Beat  this  well,  add  the  lemon  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Last  of  all,  add  the  flour  very  quickly.  Bake 
for  20  minutes, 

GINGER   POUND   CAKE. 
Mrs.  Cary,  Baltimore  (1830). 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  5  oz.  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  and  one  third  cup  dark  molasses,  one  third  cup  ginger,  9  oz.  flour, 
Vi  lb.  raisins  floured,  one  third  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  third  tea- 
spoon cloves,  and  1  teaspoon  allspice,  1  heaping  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar  mixed  with  the  flour,  two  thirds  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk  and  put  in  the  last  thing. 

SODA   CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Rosalie  Beauregard  Page,  Virginia. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  2  spoons  cream  tartar,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk.  In  warm  weath- 
er add  a  little  more  flour,  put  all  ingredients  together  and  beat  with 
hand. 

COFFEE   CAKE. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Lyon,  Rockwood,  N.  Y.  (1875). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Fanny  Lyon,  Bryn  Maivr,  Pa. 

One  cup  sugar,  y±  cup  butter,  1  cup  black  molasses,  1  cup  coffee 
very  strong,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  y2  lb. 
citron,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  coffee,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  Y\  teaspoon  cloves.  Do  not  beat  longer  than  is 
necessary,  and  mix  well  as  beating.     Makes  the  cake  light  in  color. 


262  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

POUND    CAKE. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Maim',  Pa. 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  9  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  they  cream. 
Beat  the  eggs  well,  separately,  add  the  flour  last  of  all,  and  beat  until 
the  dough  is  light  and  almost  white. 

FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 
Mrs.  Charlotte  Cranwell  Minor,  New  London  and  New  York. 

(I775-) 
Contributed  by  Miss  K.  A.  Wilcox,  Westport,  Conn. 

Five  cups  powdered  suga»-  ""  cups  butter,  2  cups  milk,  10  cups 
flour  sifted,  6  eggs,  1  wineglass  wine,  1  wineglass  brandy,  3  nutmegs, 
1  lb.  raisins,  "y2  lb.  citron,  1  teaspoon  soda  and  1  lemon.  This  makes 
4  loaves  bread  size. 

MOLASSES   GINGERBREAD. 
Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 

One  and  one  half  teacup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of 
molasses,  1  of  milk,  5  of  flour,  5  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda  dissolved  in  milk. 

MORAVIAN  ORANGE  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Miss  M.  Schott,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Used  largely  in  Bethlehem,  where  there  are  many  Moravians : 
One  and  one  half  pts.  of  molasses,  ^4  lb-  of  butter,  -)4  lb.  of  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  jelly,  1  teaspoon  of  mace,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  i'J^ 
tablespoon  orange  peel.  Make  up  the  bread  stiff  with  flour,  keep 
cold  until  the  next  day,  roll  out  very  thin,  and  then  cut  in  small  cakes. 


CAKES  263 

MY  GRANDMOTHER'S  PLUNKETS. 
Contributed  by  Airs.  Edward  I.  Cramp,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cream  )/2  lb.  of  butter,  add  gradually  l/2  lb.  of  sugar,  separate  6 
eggs,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  last.  The  yolks  beaten  to  a 
foam,  stir  slowly  into  butter  and  sugar.  Mix  6  oz.  of  cornstarch,  no 
more,  no  less,  with  2  oz.  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  sift 
4  times,  on  this  depends  the  success  of  the  plunkets,  add  gradually 
to  the  other  mixture,  flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown.     Put  in  gem  cans. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Airs.  James  M.  Anders,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  eggs  separated,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons- 
ful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  together  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  hot 
water,  flavor  cake,  whipped  cream  and  frosting,  with  coffee  extract. 
About  l/2  teaspoon  in  each,  ]/2  pt.  whipped  cream  (sweetened).  Bake 
in  round,  rather  deep  tin.  When  done  cut  a  circular  piece  and  lay  it 
aside.  From  remainder  of  cake  dig  out  little  pieces  here  and  there. 
Fill  with  whipped  cream.  Put  all  the  cake  in  place  over  cream  and 
frost'  with  boiled  frosting. 

BURGESS   CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Joseph  Neif,  Philadelphia. 

Three  fourths  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  wineglass  of  brandy, 
1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed,  4  eggs  beaten  separately, 
]/2  lb.  of  currants,  about  10  oz.  of  flour,  rub  sugar,  yolks  and  butter 
together,  then  add  yolks  of  the  eggs,  brandy  and  spices.  When  thor- 
oughly mixed  add  about  half  the  flour,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  light.  Mix  the  remaining  half  of  the  flour  with  the  currants 
and  stir  lightly  into  the  mixture.  Bake  on  tin  sheets  in  a  moderate 
oven.  See  that  you  do  not  get  too  much  flour  or  the  cakes  will  not 
be  crisp. 


264  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BLACK  CAKE  THAT  WILL  KEEP  ONE  YEAR. 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason,  "  Cleveland,"  King  George  Co.,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
One  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  flour,  10  eggs,  y2 
pt.  of  French  brandy,  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  1  tablespoon 
mace,  2  nutmegs  grated,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves. 

SCHUYLER  WEDDING  CAKE. 

New  York  (1690). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Twelve  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  12  lbs.  of  butter,  12  lbs.  of  browned 
flour,  12  dozen  eggs,  48  lbs.  of  raisins,  24  lbs.  of  citron,  48  lbs.  of 
currants,  12  lbs.  of  chopped  almonds,  6  cups  of  molasses,  3  qts.  of 
brandy,  1  qt.  of  Jamaica  rum,  12  oz.  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  pound  fine.  Ten  teaspoons  salt,  12  teaspoons  pearl 
ash.     This  is  mixed  in  a  wash  tub  and  baked  16  hours. 

LEMON  JUMBLES. 
Mrs.  Washington  Tompkins,  White  Plains,  N.  Y.  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  i]/2  lbs.  flour,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  juice 
oi  4  lemons,  and  rind  of  1  lemon.  Roll  very  thin,  and  sprinkle  with 
coarse  sugar.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

AUNT  BETSEY  BENNILL'S  SOUR  CREAM  JUMBLES. 

Westport,  Conn.,   1800. 

Contributed  by   Miss  Katherine  A.    Willcox,    Westport,   Conn. 

One  cup  thick  sour  cream,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  x/2  cup  butter, 
1  egg,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar,  pinch  of  salt  and  flavor  to  taste.  Pat  out  as  dough  is  very 
soft,  and  cut. 


CAKES  265 

LAUGHING  MOLLIES. 

Grandma  Minor  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Miss  A.  Jacqueline  Minor,  New  York. 

Mix  in  order  given  below :  Bake  in  3  deep  layers,  and  fill  with 
boiled  icing.  One  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar,  ]/2  cup  butter, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  'Yz  cake  melted  Baker's  chocolate,  Y\  cup  milk,  2  cups 
Hour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  in  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
and  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  C.  W.  Dailey,  Elkins,  IV.  Va. 

Six  eggs,  1  glass  of  flour,  1  glass  of  sugar,  juice  of  ]/2  lemon. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  very  light,  then  beat  in  sugar  5  minutes,  then  flour 
5  minutes,  then  lemon  juice,  and  white  of  egg  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake 
in  papered  tins. 

GINGER   SNAPS. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Three  lbs.  flour,  1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  1  pt.  dark  molas- 
ses, 1  tablespoonful  ginger  (heaping),  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  }4 
tablespoonful  cloves.      Roll  very  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BLACK  CAKE  %  (WEDDING  CAKE). 

Mrs.  Albor  Man,  Plattsburg,  N.  Y.    (1806). 

Contributed  by  Mary  Helen  Livingston  Lloyd, 
Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd,  Havcrford,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  butter  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  flour,  1  teacup  of  mo- 
lasses, 10  eggs,  1  lb.  of  citron,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  3  lbs.  of  raisins,  1  lb. 
of  almonds  broken  small,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  2  teaspoonsful  of 
cinnamon,  y2  tumbler  of  brandy,  1  nutmeg  grated.  Bake  4  hours, 
keep  moist  for  3  months,  if  needed  sooner  bake  three  hours. 


266  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hadduck,  Chicago. 

Eighteen  eggs,  iy2  lbs.  pulverized  sugar,  1  small  saltspoon  of  salt, 
y2  lb.  and  a  handful  of  flour,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  10  minutes  more,  add  salt  and  lemon,  add  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  fold  flour  in  very  lightly  and  bake  30  minutes. 

ICING  FOR  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Rodney,  of  Germantown. 

Contributed  by  Her  Great-Granddaughter ,  Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick, 
Germantown,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  whites  of  1  egg  for  1  lb.  of  cake,  beat  very  well,  then  add 
by  degrees  8  teaspoonfuls  of  the  very  finest  pulverized  and  sifted 
sugar.  Beat  all  very  well  together,  then  put  it  on  with  a  feather, 
whilst  the  cake  is  a  little  warm. 

PENNSYLVANIA   SAND   TARTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Caroline  Rogers  Buehler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  'T/2  lb.  of  butter,  3  eggs  leaving 
out  the  whites  of  1.  Make  into  stiff  dough.  Cut  them  in  squares. 
Brush  surface  with  beaten  white  of  egg.  Lay  split,  blanched  almonds 
on  top  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

"  BLACK  TORTE  "  "( 1 561 ) . 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  H.  Cavalier  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

From  the  recipe  cook  book  of  Archduchess  Philippine,  wife  of 
Archduke  Ferdinand  of  Tyrol,  in  the  year  1561.  The  oldest  cook 
book  extant.  Eight  to  14  pears,  roast  until  soft  with  1  quince  (the 
last  longer  in  oven,  being  harder).  Peel  and  put  into  'l/2  pt.  of  milk. 
Add  9  eggs,  sugar  (rather  too  much  than  too  little),  "y2  measure  of 
grated  almonds,  sieve.  Add  cinnamon,  cloves,  pepper,  ginger  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.      Serve  on  thin  crust,  putting  frosting  on  top. 


CAKES  267 

BEST    BRIDE'S    CAKE.     MADE    BY    MY    GREAT-GRAND- 
MOTHER—BORN 1795,  DIED  1896. 

Mrs.  Albor  Man,  Plattsburg,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Helen  Livingston  Lloyd,  Havcrford,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  sugar,  34  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  flour,  1  teacupful  of 
milk,  10  eggs,  whites  only,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk. 
2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  sifted  into  the  flour.  Stir  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  sugar  and  stir  to  a  snow.  Add  flour  slowly,  and  lastly 
gradually  the  milk  and  eggs. 

MAPLE  BISCUIT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

Three  lbs.  flour,  }^  lb.  butter,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  cinnamon,  4  eggs,  y2  glass  wine,  same  of  brandy,  nutmeg,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  cup  of  milk.     Roll  thin. 

Loaned  by  Miss  Frances  Virginia  Baldzcin,  Orange,  N.  J. 

This  is  a  good  recipe  of  "  Georgie's  "  for  Molasses  Cake. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  2*/> 
cups  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  or  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Cinnamon  and  gineer  to  taste. 

CRISP  GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.  Collins,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1878. 

•    '  Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  lbs.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  3  tablespoons 
of  best  ginger,  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  1  of  powdered 
allspice,  1  of  mace.  Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour,  rub  it  through  until 
well  mixed,  add  sugar  and  spices.  Wet  it  with  1  quart  of  molasses, 
roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  To  make  the  cakes  shine  on 
top,  rub  them  over  with  cloth  dipped  in  molasses.  Beat  light  before 
the  dough  is  cut  into  cakes. 


268  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  of  brown  sugar,  i  cup  of  butter  cut 
in  small  pieces,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  3  teacups  of  flour,  2  tablespoons 
of  ground  cloves,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  ginger,  2  tablespoons  of 
brandy,   1  teaspoon  of  dissolved  saleratus,   Y2  cup  of  milk. 

TAYLOR   GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed  by  Virginia  Taylor  Seiss,  Mrs.  Ralph  IV.  Seiss,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

From  the  Old  Homestead  at  High  Bridge,  New  Jersey.  Used 
for  6  generations  by  the  Taylors  within  its  walls .  One  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  butter,  3 
cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  dessertspoon  cinnamon, 
1  dessertspoon  soda,  one  third  of  a  nutmeg  grated. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 
Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1875. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Stir  to  a  cream  a  pound  of  sug'ar,  ^4.  pound  of  butter,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  wine  glass  of  brandy.  Separate  yolks  and 
whites  of  9  eggs,  beat  them  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  cake,  add  1  lb.  of 
sifted  flour;  just  before  putting  cake  in  pan  put  in  1  lb.  of  stoned 
raisin? 

CRULLERS. 

Contributed  by  Aunt  Mary  Balding,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1850. 

Four  eggs,  9  tablespoons  of  sugar,  9  tablespoons  of  melted  but- 
ter, flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  y2  cup  of  milk,  ]/2  teaspoon  soda, 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  very  light,  add 
butter,  spice  and  flour. 


CAKES  269 

DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE. 

Helen  B.   Hutchison,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

One  pint  of  flour,  ]/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda 
sifted  into  the  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  Y\  cupful  of  but- 
ter, 1  egg-,  1  scant  cup  of  milk,  4  sour  apples  pared  and  quartered. 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Rub  in  the 
butter,  beat  the  egg  and  mix  with  the  milk,  then  stir  this  into  the 
dry  mixture.  The  dough  should  be  soft  enough  to  spread  half  an 
inch  thick  on  a  shallow  baking-  pan.  Pare  and  cut  4  apples  into 
eighths.  Lay  in  rows  on  top  of  dough,  the  sharp  edge  down,  sprinkle 
the  sugar  on  the  apples.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  or  30  minutes.  To 
be  eaten  hot  with  butter  as  a  tea  cake,  or  with  lemon  sauce  or  cream 
as  with  a  pudding. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson,  Philadelphia,   Pa.     ' 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  pints  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  2  or  3  eg-gs, 
1  cup  of  butter,  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 

TO  MAKE  A  LETTIS  TART. 

From  Mrs.  Washington's  "  Book  of  Cookery,"  owned  by  the 
Pennsylvania  Historical  Society  of  Philadelphia.  Pa.,  used  by  Martha 
Washington  and  her  descendants,   from  1706. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  IV.  Hinckle  Smith,  Bryii  Maivr,  Pa. 

When  you  have  raised  ye  crust  lay  in  all  over  the  bottom  some 
butter  and  strow  in  some  sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  little  ginger,  then 
boyle  ye  cabbage  lettis  in  a  little  water  and  salt  and  when  ye  water 
is  drayned  from  it,  lay  it  in  ye  coffin  with  some  dammask  pruens. 
some  marrow  and  some  seasoning  as  you  layd  on  ye  bottom.  Ye 
close  it  up  and  ye  bake  it 


270  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

STIR  PAN1  CAKES. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosemont,  Pa. 

One  quart  of  milk,  i  pint  of  flour,  4  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Beat, 
the. eggs,  adding  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  so  as  to  form  a  thin 
smooth  batter.  When  ready  to  cook  them,  have  a  frying  pan  just 
hot  enough  to  melt  butter  (about  a  tablespoonful)  then  pour  in 
a  teacup  of  this  batter,  stirring  immediately,  the  same  as  scrambled 
eggs,  keeping  the  batter  in  the  centre  of  the  pan,  then  allow  it  to 
remain  until  it  browns  lightly  on  the  under  side,  then  turn  over. 
When  the  other  side  is  brown  also,  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  but  never 
allow  them  to  be  put  on  top  of  each  other.  To  be  baked  and  served 
at  once,  as  they  are  too  delicate  to  wait.  Excellent  for  desserts. 
To  be  eaten  with  butter  and  fine  sugar,  the  same  as  waffles.  From 
my  Grandmother's  Recipe  Book. 

MORAVIAN  SUGAR  CAKE. 

Miss  M.  P.  Connelly,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  and  one  fourth  lbs.  of  butter,  1  quart  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  y2 
lbs.  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  yeast.  Work 
the  butter  in  the  flour,  warm  the  milk,  mix  in  alternately  the  milk 
and  eggs,  mix  in  the  yeast  last  and  set  to  rise.  When  risen  suffi- 
ciently work  the  dough  with  more  flour.  Put  in  flat  pans  set  to  rise 
then  spread  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Two  cups  of  hot  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
flour,  grate  the  rind  of  1  lemon,  add  juice  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Boil  water  and  sugar  5  minutes,  add  the  flour  wet  with  a  little  cold 
water.  Cook  8  or  10  minutes,  add  lemon  rind,  juice  and  butter,  stir 
until  butter  is  melted  and  serve  at  once. 


CAKES  271 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Roscmont,  Pa. 

Take  9  eggs.  The  weight  of  8  of  them  in  granulated  sugar  and 
weight  of  4  of  them  in  flour.  Grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  juice.  Place  the  sugar  in  a  deep  bowl,  breaking  the 
eggs,  separating  the  whites  so  as  to  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth.  As 
you  break  the  egg,  chop  each  yolk  in  the  sugar,  stirring  constantly 
until  very  fine  and  light.  Add  the  grated  lemon  rind  and  then  the 
juice.  Afterwards  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  cutting  through 
and  beating  lightly,  and  then  add  the  flour,  very  lightly  also.  Having 
greased  two  pans,  pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
until  a  double  broom  whisk  can  be  run  through  the  centre  of  the  cake 
and  removed  entirely  dry. 

KATE  WILLCOX'S  COOKIES. 

New  York  City,  1878. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Katherine  A.  Willcox,  Westport,  Conn. 

One  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs,  j4 
cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  or  l/2  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar,  *4  teaspoon  of  soda. 

BOILED   ICING. 

One  and  one  half  lbs.  of  sugar  boiled  in  \x/2  pts  of  water  until 
it  ropes.  Put  into  a  bowl  and  stir  and  beat  until  it  is  milk  warm,  then 
add  whites  of  7  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  all  well  together. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Aunt  Nancy  Trotter,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Four  lbs.  of  flour,   yA  lb.  of  butter,   il/2  lbs.  of  sugar,   1  quart 
of  milk,  1  egg,  1  teacup  of  yeast,  cinnamon  to  taste. 


272  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

NEW   ENGLAND   COOKIES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  M.  Anders,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  "cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  cups  of  Quaker  oats,  2  level  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  salt,  a  little  vanilla  may  be  added.  Drop  a  tea- 
spoonful  in  the  pan  so  that  each  cookie  will  spread.  They  will 
harden  when  cold. 

LADY  WASHINGTON  WEDDING  CAKE. 

This  recipe  was  taken  from  an  old  family  recipe  book  (tat- 
tered, but  still  legible  in  spite  of  century  old  ink).  The  old-fash- 
ioned recipe  was  intended  for  baking  before  an  open  fire,  and  con- 
tained directions  for  baking  before  an  open  fire,  for  putting  embers 
under  the  oven,  and  letting  the  batter  rise  3  hours,  then  baking 
for  3  hours  and  drawing  the  oven  away  from  the  fire,  letting 
the  cake  soak  at  least  2  hours.  If  it  was  very  large,  it  was  to  be 
left  in  the  chimney  corner  all  night. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Samuel  Ewing,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

Two  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  citron,  1  lb.  of 
almonds  chopped  fine,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  flour, 
1  doz.  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  mace,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  2  nut- 
megs grated,  1  teacup  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed.  The  raisins  and 
citron  are  both  cut  up  and  rolled  in  flour.  Beat  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  eggs  beaten  very  light,  then  fruit,  then  flour,  and 
last  the  wTine. 

HOLLOW   HEARTS. 

Laura  G.  Brower,  Wilkes-Barre,  Pa.   (1820). 

Contributed   by  Mary   Helen   Livingston   Lloyd, 
Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  spoonful  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt.  Bake  20  or  30  minutes  in  patty  pans  and  serve  with 
wine  sauce. 


CAKES  273 

OLD-FASHIONED    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Bettle,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Helen  Biddle  Griscom  Bettle. 

Weight  of  8  eggs  in  sugar,  weight  of  4  eggs  in  flour,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Beat  yolks  until  very  light  and  add  sugar  slowly, 
stir  in  the  flour  gradually,  and  add  the  lemon  juice.  Beat  whites 
very  stiff  and  fold  them  in,  stirring  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey,  Baltimore. 

Ten  eggs  weight  in  pulverized  sugar,  weight  of  five  in  sifted 
flour.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar.  When  light  add  whites  beaten  light, 
grated  rinds  of  2  lemons  and  juice  of  one.  Stir  in  flour  and  bake  in 
moderate   oven. 

MOLASSES     POUND  CAKE 

Mrs.  Marie  Louise  Jones,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  and  one  half  lbs.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1 
pint  of  molasses,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  pearl  ash,  1  cup  of  cream, 
spices  to  taste. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin,  West  Orange,  N.  J. 

Two  teacups  of  sugar,  2  teacups  of  buttermilk,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  teaspoons  full  of  saleratus,  2  teaspoons  of  nutmeg. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  3  cups  flour,  3 
eggs,  1  teaspoonful  sea  foam,  1  cup  milk,   1  tablespoon  ginger. 


274  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

"Aunty  Estelle,"  Germantown,  Philadelphia. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  lb.  of  butter,  i  lb.  of  sugar,  i  wineglass  wine,  8  eggs, 
i  wineglass  rose  water,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  flour  sufficient 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Cooked  like  doughnuts. 

SUGAR  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Locke,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  nutmeg  grated,  flour  sufficient  to 
roll  it. 

ENGLISH  DROP  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  New  York. 

One  half  lb.  sugar,  ]/2  lb.  butter,  34  lb.  flour,  3  eggs  well  beaten, 
Y\   lb.  currants,  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.      Drop  in  pan. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Recipe   of   Mrs.    Francis   Sorrell,    "  The   Barrens,"   Roanoke 

Co.,  Va.,  1867. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Jane  Gamble,  Roanoke,   Va. 

Six  eggs,  }i  lb.  of  sugar  (light  weight),  1  lb.  of  sugar 
(pulverized),  1  lb.  of  flour,  1  teacup  sour  milk,  2  or  3  nutmegs 
grated,  2  tablespoonsful  cinnamon,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of 
ground  ginger,  '*/>  teacup  of  brandy  (  or  wine),  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar  as  will  dissolve  it.  Cream 
the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  then  the  flour  must  be  added  little  by  little  alter- 
nately, then  the  seasoning,  then  the  sour  cream,  last  the  soda.  Bake 
in  moulds  quickly  after  it  rises.     Eat  while  fresh. 


CAKES  275 

SCRIPTURE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Rosenwnt,  Pa. 

One    cup    butter Judges,    5  125 

Three  and  a  half  cups  flour I  Kings,  4  :22 

Three   cups   sugar Jeremiah,    6  :20 

Two  cups   raisins I   Samuel,   30:12 

Two  cups  of  figs   I  Samuel,  30 :i2 

One    cup    water Genesis,    24 :iy 

One  cup  almonds Genesis,  43  :i  1 

Six   eggs    Isaiah,    10:14 

Tablespoonful   honey    Genesis,   43  :i  1 

Pinch  of  salt    Leviticus,    16:13 

Spices  to  taste I  Kings,   10:10 

Two  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder I  Corinthians,  5  :6 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys,  and  you  will 
have  a  good  cake.  Proverbs,  23:14:  "Thou  shalt  beat  him  with  a 
rod." 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

The  recipe  was  written  by  Penelope  Jones,  the  mother  of 
Commodore  Jacob  Jones,  United  States  Navy. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick,  Germcmtown,  Pliila.,  from 
her  Great-Grandmother  Rodney's  recipe-book,  1700. 

Take  15  oz.  of  flour  well  dried,  a  pound  of  double  refined  loaf 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  almonds  beaten  with  half  a  pint  of  rose  water, 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  the  whites  of  4  beaten  separately,  rind  of  3  oranges, 
grated.  All  beaten  together  with  some  slices  of  citron  and  candied 
orange  peel. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dominick,  Cincinnati. 

One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  T/2  cup  of  lard 
melted,  il/2  cups  of  flour. 


2?6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TO  MAKE  A  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Powel,  Philadelphia,  Pa.   (1800). 

(Daughter  of  Mr.  Charles  Willing,  wife  of  Mr.  Samuel  Powel,  who 
was  Mayor  of  the  City  and  held  other  important  positions,  and 
whose  home  was  the  resort  of  the  most  distinguished  people  of 
this  country,  and  abroad.) 

Contributed  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadzualador,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  ^  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  put  to  it  a  ^4  erf  a  pint  of 
water,  let  it  just  boil  enough  to  skim  it  clean,  then  take  7  eggs, 
leave  out  4  whites,  when  they  are  beat  and  sirained,  put  to  them 
the  peel  of  a  large  lemon,  cut.  very  fine.  Then  put  to'  them  the  sugar 
and  water,  which  must  be  very  hot,  putting  in  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  the  eggs  all  the  time  with  a  whisk.  (It  must  be  beat  an 
hour).  Then  have  ready  y2  pound  of  flour  sifted  and  dried  and 
put  in  a  little  at  a  time.  It  must  not  be  beat  after  the  flour  is  put 
in,  and  that  must  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.     Bake  50  minutes. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Made  by  Mrs.  John  Beardslee,   1858,  Little  Falls,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  IV.  Noycs,  Montclair,  N.  J. 

One  lb.  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  lb.  of  butter,  6  eggs,  1  teacup 
of  sweet  milk,  1  lb.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  teaspoons  of  cream 
of  tartar.     Lemon  extract  or  almond  extract  to  taste. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Made  by  Mrs.  M.  E.  Furman,   1865,  Westport,  Conn. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James   W .   Noyes,  Montclair,  N.   J. 

Eight  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  3  cups  of  white  sugar  dis- 
solved in  milk,  3  cups  of  milk,  3  eggs  beaten  together,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  iy2  teaspoons  of  soda  in  milk,  3  of  cream  of  tartar  in  flour,  5 
pints  of  flour.     Fry  in  boiling  lard. 


BLACK  CAKE. 

(Wedding  cake.) 

Contributed  by  Elizabeth   IV.  Paul  Morris, 
Mrs.  Frederick  Wistar  Morris,  ' '  Dundale,"  Villa  Nova,  Pa. 

Given  to  me  by  my  old  aunt,  1820,  Mary  Paul  Lownes;  used  in 
our  family  for  all  weddings. 

One  lb.  oi  Hour,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar  (light), 
9  or  10  eggs,  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  l/2  lb.  of  citron,  34 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  2  oz.  cinnamon,  34  oz-  ground  cloves,  2  nut- 
megs, 1  l/z  gills  brandy.     Send  to  confectioner  to  bake. 

OLYCOOKS. 

(Old  Dutch  Recipe.) 

From  the  old  Dutch  book  of  Elizabeth  Van  Rensselaer,  mar- 
ried September  18th,   1787,  to  John  Bradstreet  Schuyler. 

Contributed   by  Mrs.   Francis    Taylor   Chambers,   her  Great-Grand- 

daughtcr. 

Five  lbs.  of  flour,  134  lbs.  of  butter,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  12  eggs, 
1  quart  of  milk,  a  small  quantity  of  thick  yeast.  Nutmeg,  mace  and 
cinnamon  to  taste,  with  a  quantity  of  stoned  raisins.  The  butter 
sugar  and  milk  must  be  warmed  together.  Add  the  rest,  but  while 
it  is  very  hot.     Mix  in  the  morning  and  stand  until  afternoon. 

MONTGOMERY  INN  SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Beverly  Roberts,  Bryn  Mazer,  Pa. 

One  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  >4 
cup  lard  and  butter,  3  eggs,  i,y2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoonful  ginger, 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  cloves,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda 
dissolved  in  vinegar.  Bake  about  30  minutes.  Use  your  own  judg- 
ment in  regard  to  flour,  as  there  is  a  difference  in  texture  and  some 
brands  thicken  more  quickly  than  others. 


s 


278  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

AUNT  PHEBE'S  LEMON  CAKE. 

Made  for  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  whose  servant  she  was. 

In  the  opening  of  our  Southern  States  the  most  noble  Earl  of 
Hillsborough  did  not  fail  to  appreciate  the  lovely  and  charming  Ac- 
canecean  Hills  of  Northern  Carolina,  and  then  when  without  the 
window  of  his  modest  state  home,  "  as  it  could  not  be  called  more  " 
the  Rhodora  rose,  blushed  and  gave  the  colors  of  life  and  party,  this 
most  noble  Lord  took  the  hint,  and  entertained  in  a  truly  royal  man- 
ner. So-  much  did  they  who  lived  around  the  Court,  love  life  and 
good  living  that  they  willingly  accepted  the  offices  of  our  Aunt 
Phebe. 

Aunt  Phebe,  whose  pedigree  need  not  alarm  us,  as  we  all  loved 
her  and  ate  her  cake  with  the  keenest  relish  after  either  a  fox  hunt 
or,  in  more  remote  days,  driving  away  the  tear,  made  this  cake 
never  to  be  forgotten,  and  still  enjoyed  by  many  of  the  descendants 
who  have  never  forsaken  this  Swiss-American  Carnival  spot.  It 
is  still  called  Aunt  Phebe's  Hillsborough  Lemon  Cake. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Caroline  E.  Brooks,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  flour,  ]/2  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk, 
7  eggs,  1  lemon,  2  light  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Filling. —  Three  eggs,  1  ]/2  cups  sugar,  ^4  cup  butter,  3  lemons, 
juice  of  all  —  grated  rind  of  one.  Beat  yellow  and  whites  of  eggs 
separately  —  beat  well  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick  enough  to 
spread.     When  cold  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 

CREAM  CAKE. 
Miss  M.  Biddle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  Y^  cup  of 
butter,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  4  eggs. 

Custard  for  Filling". —  One  pt.  of  milk,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  4 
teaspoons  of  cornstarch.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  This  batter  should 
make  6  layers,  enough  for  2  cakes.     Put  boiled  icing  on  the  tops. 


CAKES  279 

WAKEFIELD  GINGER  COOKIES. 

Used  by  Miss  Elizabeth  Rodman  Fisher,  of  Wakefield,  Ger- 

mantown,   i860. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hannah  Fox,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  2  lbs.  of  flour,  l/2  lb.  of  butter,  l/A  lb.  of  lard,  }2  lb.  of 
brown  sugar,  5  tablespoons  of  spice,  2  of  ginger,  2  of  cinnamon, 
l/2  allspice,   l/2  cloves,   1  pint  of  molasses. 

Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands  the  flour,  butter,  lard,  spices 
and  sugar.  Add  the  molasses,  roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  rather  slow 
oven.  The  cookies  will  be  quite  spoiled  unless  mixed  with  great 
care. 

MARTHA  WASHINGTON'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Copied  from  Old  Original  Receipt  Book. 

Mrs.  Roberts  Lowrie,  Bryn  Mawr. 

One  and  one  half  lbs.  sugar,  l/2  lb.  butter,  1^4  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  cur- 
rants, 1  lb.  raisins,  l/2  lb.  citron,  1  nutmeg,  sprinkling  of  mace,  1  pt. 
sour  cream,  juice  of  1  lemon  and  rind  of  two,  6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  sour  cream  (in  which  the  soda  has  been 
dissolved),  and  flour  alternately;  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Flavor  the  fruit  and  add  last  of  all,  bake  2^4  hours,  cover 
with  buttered  paper  while  baking. 

MRS.  OLIVER  HASTING'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  and  a  fourth  lbs.  butter,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  10  eggs,  i]/2  lbs. 
flour,  5  lbs.  currants  and  seeded  raisins,  these  latter  chopped,  2  lbs. 
of  citron  cut  in  thin  slices,  1  pt.  black  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  cream,  3  glasses  of  brandy,  2  teaspoons  of  cloves. 
2  of  mace,  2  of  cinnamon.  Salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  all  to- 
gether thoroughly.  Line  a  baking  pan  with  greased  paper  and  bake- 
slowly. 


28o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Longstreth,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

A  salt  spoon  of  salt  must  be  added;  5  eggs,  a  coffee  cup  of 
sugar,  half  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  flour,  the  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  and  a  large  half  of  the  juice.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Rub  with  a  spoon  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  the  rind  of 
the  lemon  having  been  grated  into  the  sugar,  before  the  whites  are 
beaten,  as  they  must  not  stand  after  they  are  brought  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Then  add  the  whites  and  stir  well,  then  the  flour  and  stir  only  just 
enough  to  mix  it  in,  then  the  lemon  juice  which  must  be  ready.  Put 
into>  a  pan  and  bake  25  minutes. 

CROXYNOS. 

This  Recipe  was  Used  by  Mrs.  Pierre  Surget  (nee  Catherine 
Hubbard,  of  Natchez,  Miss.,   1749). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Louise  Puquct  du  Bellet,  Natchez,  Miss. 

Twelve  well  beaten  eggs,  1  pint  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
ground  cinnamon,  1  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  wine,  and  if  desired  a 
little  pounded  orange  peel.  Beat  these  well  together,  and  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  squares  or  oblong,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  slit  across.      Fry  in  boiling  lard. 

QUIRE  OF  PAPER  PANCAKES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Gulielma  Harrison,  Brandon,    Va. 

Beat  sixteen  eggs,  add  to  them  one  quart  of  milk,  y2  lb.  flour, 
one  nutmeg,  1  lb.  melted  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  2  gills  of  wine.  Take 
care  that  the  flour  is  not  in  lumps.  Butter  the  pan  for  the  first  pan- 
cake. Run  them  as  thin  as  possible  —  when  colored  they  are  done. 
Do  not  turn  them,  but  lay  them  carefully  on  a  dish,  sprinkling  pow- 
dered sugar  between  each  layer.  Serve  them  hot.  This  quantity 
will  make  4  dozen  pancakes.     The  half  is  a  good  size  dish  for  dessert. 


CAKES  281 

BLACK  CAKE. 

Made  by  Mrs.  John  Somers  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  Former- 
ly Miss  Eliza  Porterfield  of  Scotland,  (1790). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  D.  Leeds  Miller,  Haverford,  Pa. 

One  lb.  butter,  1%  lb.  sugar,  1*4  lb.  flour,  2  lbs.  raisins,  2 
lbs.  currants,  154  lb.  citron,  12  eggs,  1  cup  brandy,  %  teaspoon 
cloves,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  Y/2  lb.  blanched  almonds  chopped 
fine.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  flour  and  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  alternately,  flavor  your  fruit  before  adding,  then  the 
brandy  and  spices  and  nuts. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

Emile  Victorine  Wierman,   (1850). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Thco.  N.  Ely,  Bryn  Mazer,  Pa. 

Four  eggs,  i*4  lbs.  sugar,  $4  lbs.  butter,  1  pint  sour  cream, 
i-)41bs.  fruit-raisins  and  currants  mixed,  j4  lb.  citron,   1^4  lbs.  flour, 

1  wineglass  sherry,  1  wineglass  brandy,  1  tablespoonful  ground  cloves, 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  ground  nutmeg. 
Mix  as  an  ordinary  fruit  cake.  Bake  in  well  greased  earthenware 
Turk's  head,  in  slow  oven,  probably  2  hours.  This  makes  one  large 
and  one  small  cake. 

IMPERIAL  CAKE. 

Miss  M.  Biddle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  12  eggs,  1  lb.  stoned 
raisins,  ^4  lb.  citron,  1  lb.  blanched  almonds,  one  nutmeg,  wineglass 
of  sherry. 

LITTLE  POUND  CAKES. 

Miss  M.  Biddle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  and  one  fourth  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  T/2  cup  of  butter. 
4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream. 


282  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MARGUERITES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison,  Brandon,  Va. 

Rub  together  i  lb.  6  oz.  sugar,  i  lb.  6  oz.  butter  till  very  light. 
Beat  8  eggs  till  very  thick,  leaving  out  the  whites.  Sift  2  lbs.  flour 
into  the  eggs,  butter  and  sugar.  Have  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
spices  —  cinnamon,  mace  and  nutmeg  —  to  a  half  glass  of  rose  water. 
Stir  the  whole  well,  and  roll  it  out  about  a  half  an  inch  thick.  Then 
cut  out  your  cakes,  and  bake  a  few  minutes.  When  they  are  cold, 
spread  each  with  peach  preserves.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  very 
light,  and  add  ]/2  lb.  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as  thick  as  icing. 
Flavor  with  lemon  juice  or  rose  water,  and  with  a  spoon  spread  it  on 
the  cakes  high  in  the  center.  Put  the  cakes  again  in  the  oven,  and 
when  they  are  of  a  pale  brown  they  are  done. 

DEWEY  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Prescott  Adamson,  Germantown,  Pa. 

Three  eggs,  "y^  cup  butter,  iJ/2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour  and  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  milk.  Bake  in  3  jelly  tins.  Mix- 
ture for  the  layers :  2  tablespoons  water,  y2  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Simmer  at  the  back  of  stove  until  it  becomes  stringy.  Beat  whites 
of  3  etogs  stiff,  and  then  add  to  syrup  and  beat  until  cool,  then  add  1 
cup  chopped  figs,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  1  cup  seedless  raisins.  Ice 
the  top  with  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  lemon  juice 
to  make  a  soft  paste.     It  should  not  be  hard. 

GINGERBREAD. 
Dr.  Meigs,  Philadelphia. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  lbs.  of  flour,  T/2  lb.  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  soda.  Rub 
butter,  flour  and  other  ingredients  together  and  mix  with  as  much 
molasses  as  will  make  a  dough.  Roll  into  thin  sheets,  cut  in  any 
shape  you  fancy  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


CAKES  283 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE. 
Philadelphia,    Pa. 

For  two  sheets  of  cake  take  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  an  egg,  3  cupfuls  of  blueberries,  or  more  if  you  choose,  a 
cupful  of  milk,  2  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour,  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  and  a  light  grating  of  nutmeg.  Rub  the  butter  and 
sugar  together.  Break  the  egg  upon  this  mixture,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly; then  add  the  milk,  and  next  the  flour  in  which  nutmeg  and 
baking  powder  have  been  mixed.  Beat  quickly  and  vigorously,  and 
afterwards  stir  in  the  berries  very  gently.  Pour  into  buttered  pans 
and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  for  35  minutes. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  E.   W .  Clark,  Gcrmantozvn,  Pa. 

One  egg  beaten  light,  1  cup  of  sugar  house  molasses,  5  teaspoons 
of  melted  butter.  Beat  them  well  together.  Into  i'y2  cups  of  flour 
mix  1  teaspoon  of  ginger  and  two  of  cinnamon.  Sift  into  mixture 
and  stir  well,  add  y2  cup  of  hot  water  into  which  has  been  dissolved 

1  even  teaspoon  of  soda.     Bake  on  buttered  paper. 

ENGLISH  TEA  CAKE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Prescott  Adamson,  Germantown,  Pa. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,   ]/2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 

2  teaspoons ful  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  with  the  flour,  enough 
milk  10  make  a  cake  batter,  1  cup  currants,  1  pinch  salt.  Bake  in 
pie  plates  (this  makes  two),  cut  open  and  butter  hot. 

SOFT    GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour 
cream,  3^2  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  baking  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  ful  ginger. 


284  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

RJCE  CAKE. 
Miss  M.   P.   Connelly,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.   Halsey,   Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  lb.  butter,  i  lb.  sugar,  8  eggs,  i  wineglass  brandy,  i 
nutmeg,  Y\  lb.  rice  flour,  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  to  be  beaten 
separately. 

CIDER  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Ellen  Upton  Philler,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Three  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  a  cup  of  cider,  cloves  and  ginger.  Very  good  when 
made  right. 

NEW  YEAR  CAKE. 

Miss  Catherine  Bishop,  Orange,  N  J.,  (1745). 

Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin,  West  Orange,  N.  I. 

Take  $4  lb-  of  butter,  1%  lbs.  of  sugar,  y2  pint  of  water  poured 
boiling  on  the  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  saleratus,  carraway  seeds  to  taste ; 
iy2  lbs.  of  flour. 

CUP   CAKE. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  cup  butter,  i'y2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs  well  beaten. 
1  cup  milk,  %  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith,  Reading,   Pa.,  (1880). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  J.  Frailey  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa, 

One  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  sugar,  y2  lb.  fresh  butter,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  brandy.  Beat  together.  Roll  in  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
bake  in  slow  oven.     Carraway  seed  may  be  added  if  liked. 


CAKES  285 

ENGLISH    CAKES. 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith,  Reading,  Pa.  (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  J.  J.  Frailey  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  lb.  sugar,  ]/2  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour,  x/2  lb.  currants,  3 
eggs.  Little  nutmeg  and  water.  Mix  well  and  drop  from  spoon 
on  buttered  paper  pans.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Clara  Lee  Pollard,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

One  coffee  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  1 
coffee  cup  of  sour  milk,  2]/2  cups  brown  sugar,  5  cups  of  flour,  4 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  tablespoons  ginger,  y2  teacup  of  whiskey. 
Figs  and  raisins  cut  fine  and  added,  are  very  nice. 

MRS.  ROOSEVELT'S  RECEIPT  FOR  SPICE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Theodore  Roosevelt. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  4  eggs,  4  cups  flour, 
2  te*aspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  1  teaspoonful  ground  cinna- 
mon, y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

SAND  TARTS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezv  York. 

One  and  one  fourth  lbs.  flour,  Y\  lb.  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, 1  lb.  sugar,  either  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  flavor.  Place  almonds 
on  top  after  rolled  out  thin. 

NEW  YEAR'S  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  St.roud,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  1870. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  lbs.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  J/2  lb.  of  butter,  1^2  tea  cups 
of  milk,  y2  teaspoon  of  pearl  ash,  1  oz.  of  caraway  seed. 


286  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

One  cup  of  butter,  3  of  sugar,  4  of  flour,  1  of  milk,  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  5  eggs,  juice  and  peel  of  1  lemon. 


FILLINGS   FOR  CAKES. 


FILLINGS  FOR  CAKES. 

FILLING. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Warfield,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hill,  Bryn  Mann',  Pa. 

Soft  white  icing,  i  pt.  grated  cocoanut,  i  lb.  English  walnuts 
(weighed  in  shells),  one  third  lb.  seeded  raisins  (chopped),  I  large 
bunch  Malaga  grapes,  seeded  and  quartered.  Add  this  to  well  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  i  cup  of  sugar. 

ICING. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Elliott,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  W .  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Three  eggs,  I  cup  water.  3  cups  sugar.  Beat  very  light  the 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Put  sugar  and  water  on  to  boil  and  let  cook  with- 
out stirring  at  all  until  on  dropping  a  little  from  the  spoon  it  flies  in 
the  air.  Then  it  is  done  and  ready  to  be  taken  off  and  poured  slowly 
on  to  the  beaten  whites,  beating  them  all  the  time  it  is  being  poured. 
Season  with  vanilla  and  continue  beating  until  the  icing  is  thick 
enough  not  to  run  when  put  between  the  layers  of  cake. 

FILLING. 

Miss  Mary  Savage  Jones,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hill,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

One  pt.  milk,  4  even  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  egg,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  until  very 
thick,  and  put  by  to  cool.  Flavor  to  taste.  This  is  nice  served  with 
cream. 

19  289 


29o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FILLING  FOR  MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Whittle,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  IV.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  with  i  cup  of  water,  until  it  ropes.  Just 
before  removing  from  the  stove,  add  y2  lb.  of  marshmallow  broken 
into  bits.  Pour  this  gradually  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.     Beat  continuously  until  nearly  cold. 

FILLING  FOR  CARAMEL  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Whittle,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson,  Savannah,  Ga, 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Mix  well.  Put  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  very  thick.  Then 
add  2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Beat  until  almost  cold.  Chopped  nuts 
may  be  added  while  beating  if  desired. 

FILLING. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Warfield,  Savannah,  Ga. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Hill,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa, 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  '^2  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  thor- 
oughly and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for 
frostins-. 


PICKLES. 


PICKLES. 

PICKLE. 

Virginia  housekeepers  have  always  been  noted  for  their  pickles, 
and  their  receipts  are  good,  old,  and  tried  ones.  After  all,  a  decade 
brings  around  its  customs,  modified.  In  an  old  history  which  I  have 
recently  read  an  account  is  given  of  the  old  days  and  entertaining  at 
Mount  Vernon,  and  mentions  that  just  before  dinner  was  announced 
the  old  butler  would  pass  pickle  with  the  mint  juleps.  So  now  before 
dinner  we  have  an  olive  in  our  cocktail. 

Sue  Mason  Maury  Halsey. 
Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
The  following  receipt  is  from  my  Great-Aunt's  cook-book,  Miss 
Mary  Harlan  Pyle,  of  West  Chester,  Pa.,  which  book  probably  be- 
longed to  my  Great-Grandmother,   Mrs.   Tiba  Pyle.  of  West  Ches- 
ter, Pa. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts,  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. 

One  half  pk.  of  ripe  tomatoes,  ]A  pk.  green  tomatoes,  I  small 
head  of  cabbage,  i  doz.  onions,  'y2  doz.  red  peppers,  l/2  doz.  green 
peppers,  l/2  lb.  celery  chopped  fine.  Salt  well  and  let  stand  24  hours, 
drain  thoroughly,  cover  with  best  cider  vinegar  and  boil  1  hour;  add 

1  cup  of  grated  horseradish,   2  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard   seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  mustard  seed,   1   tablespoonful  powdered 
cloves,   1  tablespoonful  allspice,   1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

293 


2y4  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

AUNT  C'S  CHOW  CHOW. 

Private  recipe  75  years  old. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Louis  R.  Lemoine,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Ten  heads  of  cabbage  (hard  packed).  It  is  better  to  get  them 
in  fall  or  winter.  Slice  cabbage  'y2  in.  thick,  crosswise,  pack  it  in  a 
new  tub  or  very  large  vessel,  cover  with  salt  and  cold  water  (which 
you  will  make  strong  enough  to  hold  an  egg),  then  add  about  a 
quarter  more  water.  Slice,  crosswise,  6  large  white  onions,  sprink- 
ling salt  between  each  layer.  Next  morning  wash  the  onions  and 
cover  with  fresh  cold  water.  Drain  the  cabbage  from  the  brine  and 
chop  it.  Put.  a  layer  of  cabbage  in  a  large  wooden  bowl,  sprinkle 
some  of  the  chopped  onions,  some  turmeric,  and  a  handful  of  celery- 
seed,  and  so  on,  layer  after  layer.  Then  mix  with,  hands  thoroughly. 
While  this  is  being  done  have  in  your  preserving  kettle  about  1% 
g-allons  of  white  vinegar  with  ten  cents  worth  of  nice  fresh  cinna- 
mon, some  whole  grains  of  black  pepper,  a  little  mace,  a  few  cloves 
and  a  few  pods  of  dried  red  peppers,  or  a  level  teaspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Boil  until  the  vinegar  is  quite  strong  of  the  spices,  add  to 
the  vinegar  about  2  lbs.  of  sugar.  Strain  the  vinegar  through  a  thin 
muslin  bag  over  the  cabbage.  Wash  out  the  kettle  and  transfer  the 
mixture  to  the  kettle  and  scald  until  hot  all  through,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil  or  cook.  Stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon.  At  the  time 
you  put  the  cabbage  in  bowl  to  be  chopped,  take  about  y2  of  a  40-cent 
box  of  good  mustard  and  mix  it,  smooth,  and  quite  thick,  with  warm 
water.  While  the  cabbage  is  cooling,  beat  into  the  mustard  a  bot- 
tle of  the  very  best  olive  oil,  as  you  would  for  a  nice,  smooth,  dress- 
ing, adding  vinegar  until  smooth  and  thick.  When  the  cabbage  is 
cool  mix  the  dressing  well  in,  put  into  '^2  gallon  jars  and  cover 
closely.     In  two  or  three  days  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Ingredients  Needed.  —  Ten  heads  of  cabbage,  6  large  white 
onions,  i'J^  gallons  white  wine  vinegar,  10c.  worth  of  fresh  cinna- 
mon, whole  black  pepper,  mace  cloves,  cayenne  pepper,  2  lbs.  of 
sugar,  Yz  of  a  40-cent  box  of  mustard,  bottle  of  oil,  3  oz.  fresh  celery 
seed,  2  oz.  bright  yellow  turmeric. 


PICKLES  295 

FRENCH  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Airs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham,  Richmond,  Va. 

One  pk.  of  green  tomatoes,  1  head  of  cabbage,  10  onions,  12 
green  peppers,  1  lb.  of  white  mustard,  2  oz.  of  mace,  4  tablespoons 
of  cloves,  4  tablespoons  of  allspice,  2  of  ground  black  pepper,  2  lb. 
of  sugar,  4  oz.  celery  seed  and  4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil.  Mix  and 
let  them  stand  over  night  in  cider  vinegar,  enough  to  cover  well. 
Then  boil  2  hours.  The  next  morning  you  can  add  more  vinegar  at 
discretion  if  not  well  covered  as  it  boils,  and  enough  to  cover  when 
done. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

This  came  from  a  cook  who  lived  with  Mrs.  Byerly  Hart,  and 
previous  to  that  with  her  mother,  Mrs.  Sigmund  Horstmann. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.   Walter  R.   Horstmann,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Seven  lbs.  of  fruit,  1  pt.  of  vinegar,  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  cinnamon 
(about  3  pieces,  4  inches  long),  1  oz.  of  allspice,  1  oz.  cloves.  Tie 
the  spices,  which  must  be  whole,  in  a  thin  piece  of  muslin.  Boil 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  together,  pare  and  cut  the  peaches  in  half, 
and  pour  the  mixture  hot  on  the  peaches,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Pour  it  off  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  again,  and  pour  on  the  peaches  a 
second  time,  and  put  all  in  the  kettle  and  boil  3  minutes. 

SMALL  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Elizabeth  White,  St.  Paul,  Mo. 

One  hundred  small  cucumbers  sliced  thin,  not  pared;  sprinkle 
over  them  a  cup  of  salt;  let  them  stand  over  night;  drain  well  in  the 
morning,  then  add  *4  lb-  white  mustard  seed,  j4  lb.  black  mustard 
seed,  ^4  celery  seed,  4  coffee  cups  of  olive  oil,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar. 
Mix  very  thoroughly,  add  to  cucumbers,  cover  the  whole  with  hot 
vinegar. 


296  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  Alice  Cotell  Palmer,  Wilson  County,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  Palmier  Bispham,  Overbrook,  Pa. 

Peel  2  gallons  of  small  white  onions  and  put  on  stove  in  porce- 
lain kettle,  covering  them  with  water  in  which  dissolve  a  pint  of  salt, 
just  as  the  water  gets  hot  take  them  off,  pour  onions  and  water  in  jar 
for  two  days,  then  drain  for  several  hours.  Put  into  a  jar  plain 
vinegar  all  night,  and  then  drain  again  3  hours,  and  put  into  jar  and 
cover  with  vinegar  which  you  must  boil ;  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  a  cup 
of  allspice,  a  y2  cup  celery  seed,  a  y2  cup  of  white  mustard  seed, 
spoonful  turmeric.  Pour  this  over  the  onions  and  fasten  up  for  a 
month. 

TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller,  Nezu  York. 

One  pk.  green  tomatoes,  y  pk.  small  white  onions,  1  oz.  celery 
seed,  75  small  cucumbers,  25  small  red  peppers,  y  lb.  mustard  seed, 
1  oz.  cloves,  1  oz.  allspice,  iy2  lb.  brown  sugar.  .  Cover  with  cold 
vinegar. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  Robert  G.  Gamble,  Haverford,  Pa. 

One  qt.  large  green,  cucumbers,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  1  qt.  tiny 
cucumbers,  1  qt.  green  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces,  1  qt.  small  white 
onions,  1  large  cauliflower  divided  into  flowerets,  4  large  green  pep- 
pers. None  of  these  ingredients  are  to  be  chopped,  but  cut  in  squares 
or  small  pieces.  Put  in  brine  24  hours  made  of  1  cup  salt  to  1  gal- 
lon water.  Scald  until  thoroughly  heated  through  in  the  brine, 
drain  well.  Make  a  smooth  paste  of  6  tablespoonfuls  common  mus- 
tard (not  that  in  bottles),  1  tablespoonful  turmeric,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup 
sugar,  and  2  qts.  of  mild  vinegar.  Mix  dry  ingredients  together  with 
a  little  cold  vinegar,  then  scald  until  very  smooth,  stirring  constantly. 
When  done,  pour  over  the  pickles,  stir  through  bottle.     Makes  4  qts. 


PICKLES  297 

CUCUMBER    MASH. 

Mrs.  Nathaniel  Chapman  (1820),  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  William  R.  Philler,  Havcrford,  Pa.,  her  Great- 

Granddaughter. 

Late  in  September  take  1  bushel  of  full  grown  green  cucumbers, 
peel  and  slice  them,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  on  a  sieve 
2  hours,  so  that  the  water  may  run  off.  Then  chop  up  fine,  and  add 
2  doz.  large  onions  cut  small,  1  lb.  white  mustard  seed,  ^2  lb.  ground 
mustard,  l/\  lb.  black  pepper  ground,  1  lb.  black  mustard  seed.  Mix 
all  together  with  best  wine  vinegar,  making  the  consistency  of  thick 
catsup  and  fill  your  jars,  tying  up  and  closing  tight.  Sometimes  the 
vinegar  soaks  up,  and  it  is  necessary  to  add  vinegar  after  a  few  days 
to  each  jar. 

CHOW  CHOW  OR  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  E'.  W.  Horstmann,  Philadelphia. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cut  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes  in  nice  slices,  salt  them  and  let 
them  lie  24  hours,  then  drain  and  press  them  dry  with  a  towel ;  6 
large  onions  cut  in  slices,  x/\  lb.  of  mustard  seed,  y2  lb.  ground  mus- 
tard, 1  oz.  black  pepper,  y2  oz.  ground  ginger,  x/$  oz.  of  cloves.  Mix 
the  spices,  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  spices  and  onions,  alternately,  into 
the  kettle.     Cover  with  strong  vinegar  and  boil  20  minutes. 

PEPPER  HASH. 

Mrs.  George  Philler,  Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  IV  m.  R.  Philler,  Haver  ford,  Pa. 

To  3  heads  of  cabbage,  add  2  doz.  peppers  chopped,  handful  of 
mustard  seed.  Put  in  jars,  heat  vinegar  and  pour  over  quite  hot; 
mix  it  up  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  Pour  off,  heat  again, 
and  pour  over.     When  cold  tie  up. 


298  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHOW  CHOW  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  heads  of  cabbage,  6  red  peppers,  6  green  peppers,  2  doz. 
white  onions,  1  doz.  cucumbers.  Slice  all  fine.  Put  them  into  a 
colander,  sprinkle  with  salt  well  throughout.  Put  a  press  on  it  and 
let  stand  24  hours.  Have  ready  ]/2  gal.  cold  vinegar  into  which 
put  1/2  oz.  ground  mustard  seed,  1  teacup  of  grated  horseradish,  a 
few  whole  cloves  and  allspice.  Tie  up  in  a  thin  bag  half  an 
ounce  of  turmeric,  put  it  into  the  middle  of  the  pickle.  Put  pickle  into 
a  stone  jar  and  pour  your  spiced  vinegar  on  it  adding  a  tablespoon 
of  brown  sugar. 

BORDEAUX  SAUCE. 

Miss  Boughter,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  (1865). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes  cut  in  slices,  2  gallons  cabbage  cut 
coarsely,  1  doz.  onions,  1  oz.  of  turmeric,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  1  oz.  of 
whole  cloves,  1  oz.  whole  allspice,  1  oz.  whole  peppers,  ]/2  oz.  ground 
ginger,  y2  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  y2  lb.  brown  sugar,  1  gallon  vine- 
gar. Mix  all  together,  boil  20  minutes,  put  salt  on  cabbage,  onions 
and  tomatoes  and  let  stand  about  J/2  hour,  then  drain  before  adding 
spices  and  vinegar. 

GRAPE  SAUCE. 

F.  L.  Lewis,  Canada. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Five  lbs.  of  fruit,  1  pt.  of  vinegar,  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  allspice.  First  sepa- 
rate the  pulp  from  the  skins  and  put  in  separate  dishes.  Boil  the 
pulp  until  seeds  rise,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  the  skins,  spice, 
sugar  and  vinegar.     Boil  altogether  about  30  minutes  and  bottle. 


PICKLES  2QQ 

DANIEL  WEBSTER'S  RECIPE  FOR  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Russell  Davenport,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  half  peck  green  tomatoes,  2  large  heads  of  cabbage,  15 
white  onions,  good  size,  25  encumbers.  Cut  the  cabbage  as  for  slaw. 
Chop  cucumbers,  onions  and  tomatoes  in  small  pieces.  Then  salt 
in  layers  and  let  it  stand  24  hours.  Take  3  qts.  of  best  cider  vinegar. 
3  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  ]/2  teacup  of  turmeric,  y2  cup  ground  pepper 
(black),  1  oz.  of  celery  seed,  Y\  lb.  of  white  mustard  seed  and  3  or  4 
ripe,  red  tomatoes.  Cut  in  pieces,  boil  this  together.  Drain  salt  from 
pickle  and  pour  vinegar  over  boiling  hot.  When  cold  the  last  day 
mix  a  l/\  lb.  of  mustard  seed,  a  cup  of  best  olive  oil,  1  dessertspoon 
curry  powder  and  1  qt.  of  vinegar.  Mix  oil  and  mustard,  adding 
vinegar  and  stirring  well  through  the  pickle. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Richard  Gilpin,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  y2  pk.  green  tomatoes,  4  green  peppers,  4  raw  onions. 
Slice  them  and  put  in  earthen  crocks  alternately  with  salt  sprinkled 
through.  Leave  to  soak  over  night,  then  drain  off  and  put  on  stove 
to  boil.  Mix  in  ]/\  lb.  of  ginger,  *4  lb.  of  cinnamon,  1  lb.  of  sugar. 
54  lb.  of  allspice.  Cover  with  good,  strong  vinegar  and  boil  until 
soft  and  brown.     Put  away  in  earthen  jars. 

OIL  CUCUMBER. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Belle  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Pare  and  cut  well  grown  cucumbers  in  thick  slices  1  inch,  or 
lengthwise,  add  a  large  onion  as  for  the  table,  sprinkle  well  with 
salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  in  a  colander  for  4  or  5  hours. 
Put  first  in  your  quart  jar  3  teaspoons  salad  oil,  then  layers  of  cu- 
cumbers, horseradish  scraped  fine.  A  little  of  each  cayenne  and 
black  pepper  and  turmeric.  Fill  jar  with  strong  cold  vinegar  and 
cover  closely.      Cucumbers  must  be  kept  well  under  the  vinegar. 


3oo  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

GERMAN  CANTELOPE  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  John   Minor  Maury   (an  old  receipt),   Fredericksburg, 

Va.,  (1830). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia. 

To  7  lbs.  of  fruit  put  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  1  qt.  of  vinegar,  cloves  and 
mace  and  cinnamon,  if  you  like  it,  to  your  taste.  First  cut  fruit  in 
slices,  take  out  seeds  and  soft  part  and  pare  off  rind  very  thin.  Boil 
fruit  in  water  10  minutes,  lay  on  dish  to  cool.  Put  on  the  vinegar, 
sugar,  spices  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  fruit  5  minutes. 
Now  put  fruit  in  jar  and  let  syrup  boil  10  minutes  longer  and  pour 
syrup  over  fruit  in  jar.     Preserved  ginger  is  an  improvement. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Slice  1  pk.  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  salt  over  them.  Let  them 
stand  24  hours,  drain  them  from  the  liquor.  Prepare  the  following 
ingredients:  Slice  3  lemons,  slice  12  large  onions,  take  ]A  lb.  of 
ground  mustard,  y^  lb.  ground  mustard  seed,  1  oz.  ground  cloves,  1 
oz.  ground  ginger,  1  oz.  ground  allspice,  1  oz.  of  black  pepper 
pounded  fine  1  oz.  coriander  seed,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  5  lbs.  brown 
sugar.  Put  alternate  layers  of  onion  tomatoes  and  spices  in  your 
kettle,  cover  all  with  strong  vinegar  and  boil  1  hour  and  a  quarter. 
When  cold  add  teacup  sweet  oil.     Pot  to  tie  closely. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

Miss   Marie  Louise  Hoxie,   Philadelphia,   Pa.,    (1858). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  IV.  Jlinckle  Smith. 

Five  lbs.  sugar  to  9  lbs.  of  fruit,  1  pint  of  vinegar  (dissolve 
sugar  with  the  vinegar),  y2  oz.  of  mace,  x/2  oz.  of  cloves  tied  up  in 
thin  muslin  and  put  on  with  the  fruit.  Boil  15  or  20  minutes  until 
the  peaches  look  clear. 


PICKLES  30I 

PICCALILLI. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown,  Roscmont,  Pa. 

A  peck  green  tomatoes,  8  large  onions  chopped  fine  with  one 
cup  salt  stirred  in.  Let  it  stand  all  night,  in  the  morning  drain  off 
all  the  liquor.  Take  2  quarts  water  and  one  of  vinegar.  Boil  all 
together  20  minutes.  Drain  through  a  sieve  or  colander,  put  back 
in  kettle,  and  turn  over  it  2  quarts  vinegar  and  1  lb.  sugar.  Add 
8  green  peppers  and  3  red  peppers,  chopped  fine,  y2  lb.  white  mustard 
seed,  2  tablespoon fuls  pepper,  2  of  cinnamon,  1  of  cloves,  2  of  gin- 
ger,  1  of  allspice,  y2  tablespoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  General  Watts,  Virginia. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Frances  E.  Gamble,  Haverford,  Pa. 

Take  1  pk.  of  small  green  onions  (6  or  8  onions),  skin  and 
sprinkle  in  layers  with  salt.  Let  them  stand  24  hours  and  drain 
them  by  putting  them  in  a  sieve  out  of  the  brine,  and  pouring  fresh 
water  over  them.  Then  scald  in  a  strong  ginger  tea  ( 1  lb.  of  ginger 
root  slightly  bruised  to  1  qt.  of  boiling  water).  Take  1  oz.  ground 
ginger,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
cloves,  34  lb.  of  white  mustard  seed,  y2  cup  of  mustard,  i.oz.  all- 
spice, 3  oz.  celery  seed,  and  3  lbs.  of  good,  brown  sugar.  Put  sliced 
onions  and  tomatoes  in  a  kettle  with  the  spices  and  sugar  in  alternate 
layers,  and  pour  enough  white  vinegar  to  cover  well.  Cook  the 
pickle  until  the  tomatoes  look  clear  and  are  tender  (about  an  hour). 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Six  large  ripe  tomatoes,  4  green  peppers,  1  onion,  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  iy2  cups  strong  vinegar.  Chop  peppers 
and  onions  and  boil  1  hour. 


302  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

GRANDMOTHER  SUSAN  RANDALL  WILLIAMS' 
PRESERVED  LIMES. 

Contributed   by   Mrs.    Mary   Razde    Williams,    Havcrford,   Pa. 

Take  the  limes  while  perfectly  green,  put  them  in  salt  water 
strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg;  for  6  weeks  (first  cut  in  half  and  clean 
entirely  of  the  pulp),  then  put  in  cold  water  for  24  hours,  changing 
it  every  three  hours,  then  boil  in  saleratus  water  until  tender  enough 
to  run  a  straw  through  (one  teaspoon  salaratus  to  6  quarts  of  water). 
Put  them  again  in  cold  water,  changing  several  times.  To  each  lb. 
of  limes  take  2,y2  lbs.  loaf  sugar  and  3  pints  of  water.  Boil  the 
syrup  15  or  20  minutes  to  clear  it  before  putting  in  the  limes. 
Then  boil  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  The  limes  will  be  a  light  green 
when  they  first  come  out  of  the  salaratus  water,  but  the  sugar  will 
darken  them  enough.  300  limes  will  make  from  6  to  7  lbs.,  accord- 
ing to  their  size. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  John  Staige  Davis,  University  of  Virginia,  (1850). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Jane  Gamble,  Roanoke,  Va. 

Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  slice,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let 
them  stand  24  hours.  Drain  them  by  putting  out  of  the  brine  into 
a  sieve  and  pouring  fresh  water  over  them.  Then  scald  in  a  strong 
ginger  tea.  With  the  tomatoes  put  in  6  or  8  onions  sliced.  Take  1 
oz.  of  ground  allspice,  1  oz.  ground  ginger,  2  tablespoons  ground 
black  pepper,  2  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  J/\  lb.  white  mustard  seed 
and  Y\  pint  of  prepared  mustard,  3  lbs.  of  good,  brown  sugar.  Mix 
well  and  place  the  sliced  tomatoes  and  onions  in  a  kettle  with  the 
spice  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers  and  pour  over  the  whole  enough 
good  vinegar  to  cover  well.  Let  the  pickle  cook  until  the  tomatoes 
look  clear  and  are  tender. 


CATSUPS. 


CATSUPS. 

CHILI    SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Five  large  onions,  8  green  peppers  chopped  very  fine,  add  30  ripe 
tomatoes  cut  up,  5  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  3  oz.  salt,  8  cups  of  vin- 
egar.    Boil  all  together  2l/2  hours.     Bottle  for  use. 

TOMATO   CATSUP. 

Take  4  qts.  of  peeled  tomatoes,  and  2  qts.  of  vinegar,  6  red  pep- 
pers sliced,  4  tablespoons  of  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  2  table- 
spoons of  mustard,  3  tablespoons  of  allspice.     Boil  the  whole  4  hours. 

TOMATO   CATSUP. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  C.  W.  Dailey,  Elk  ins,  W .  Va. 

One  bu.  ripe  tomatoes,  '*/  gal.  vinegar,  ]/2  lb.  of  sugar,  y2  pt.  salt, 
\Y2  oz.  black  pepper,  il/2  allspice,  2  oz.  mustard,  1  oz.  ginger,  ]/2  oz. 
cloves,  y%  oz.  cayenne,  a  little  alcohol.  Boil  tomatoes  gently  x/2  hour, 
then  press  through  colander  to  remove  skins  and  cores.  Return  liquid 
to  porcelain  lined  kettle,  and  boil  down  one  half.  Add  vinegar,  sugar, 
salt  and  spices  and  boil  down  two  thirds;  catsup  is  not  so  dark  if 
boiled  down  to  two  thirds,  after  adding  vinegar  alone,  then  sugar,  salt 
and  spices,  letting  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  removing  from  fire.  Two 
small  heads  of  garlic  or  a  small  onion  chopped  fine  and  added  with 
spices  is  sometimes  an  addition.  Bottle  when  perfectly  cold,  pouring 
a  little  alcohol  in  the  top  of  each  bottle.  Cork  and  seal. —  From 
National  Cook  Book  of  Philadelphia,  which  is,  I  understand,  out  of 
print. 

20  305 


3o6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

TOMATO  CATSUP  — THE  BEST. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury,  Richmond,  Va. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  i  gallon  of  juice  passed  through  a  sieve  put  \]/2  lbs.  of 
brown  sugar,  4  large  onions  chopped  very  fine,  2  tablespoons  ground 
cloves,  2  of  allspice,  1  large  box  mustard  and  a  great  deal  of  salt 
and  red  pepper.  Place  on  fire  and  let  it  boil  until  it  thickens.  To 
this  add  not  quite  1  qt.  of  vinegar  just  before  it  is  done. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Russell  Robinson,  Nelson  County,   Va. 

One  hundred  and  eight  tomatoes,  10  mango  peppers,  9  onions,  6 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  ginger,  1 
tablespoonful  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  allspice  and  1  qt.  vinegar.  Chop 
tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions  fine.  Boil  and  put  through  sieve,  add 
vinegar  and  boil  until  done.     Put  spices  in  bag.     Bottle  when  cold. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  bushel  tomatoes,  boil  until  soft  and  squeeze  through  a 
fine  wire'  sieve  and  add  1^2  pts.  salt,  2  oz.  whole  cloves,  %  oz.  whole 
allspice,  %  oz-  cayenne  pepper,  use  carefully,  1^2  oz.  whole  black 
pepper,  5  heads  garlic,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  ^4  oz.  good  yellow  mustard, 
Yi  gallon  vinegar.  Boil  until  reduced  to  one  half,  and  bottle  when 
cold. 


PRESERVES. 


PRESERVES. 

GREEN   SWEETMEATS. 

A  Delicious  Preserve. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Pare  the  rind  off  of  the  watermelon  and  cut  in  shapes,  and  if  you 
wish  to  have  it  green  put  it  into  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of  grape 
leaves  and  small  bits  of  alum.  Then  pour  on  Jwt  water  and  let  boil 
2  hours,  then  put  fruit  in  weak  ginger  water  and  let  simmer  for  3 
hours.  Then  make  your  syrup,  allowing  to  every  pound  of  fruit  1 *4 
lbs.  of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  water;  skim  constantly  and  put  in  rind.  Let 
simmer  until  tender,  take  fruit  out  and  boil  syrup  until  quite  thick,  pour 
over  rind,  which  place  in  jars,  letting  syrup  cover  them  well,  and  seal. 

GREEN   SWEETMEATS.     THE  BEST. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Lczvis  N.  Webb,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Carefully  pare  with  a  very  sharp  knife  your  watermelon  rind, 
taking  off  the  outer  green  and  leaving  just  the  firm  white  rind  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch.  After  cutting  rind  in  shapes  you  desire,  put  your 
rind  into  salt  and  water  for  10  days,  then  clear  water  for  24  hours, 
changing  water  once.  Then  throw  in  strong  alum  water  for  24  hours. 
Now  throw  rinds  in  a  pot  of  water,  add  2  tablespoonsful  of  ground 
ginger,  cover  your  rinds  with  grape  leaves,  and  boil  until  rinds  are 
green.  Now  place  them  in  cold  water,  changing  water  until  rind  is 
cold.  Prepare  a  thin  syrup  of  J/>  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  rind  and  let 
rinds  simmer  slowly,  adding  a  few  blades  of  mace.  Let  them  stand 
in  this  syrup  for  10  days  or  2  weeks.  Then  put  to  this  syrup  !]/>  lbs. 
of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  rind,  and  after  the  syrup  boils  well  put  in  rinds  and 
let  boil  until  clear.  Boil  3  or  4  lemons  in  clear  water  and  when  tender 
add  them  to  your  syrup.      Put  in  jars  and  cover  closely. 

309 


3io  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BRANDIED  PEACHES. 

A  receipt  from  Mrs.  J.  D.  Martinez  Cardeza,  Claymont,  Delaware, 
from  Historic  Harewood,  on  the  Smithfield  Pike,  near  Charlestown, 
W.  Va.  The  manor  house  was  built  under  the  superintendence  of 
General  George  Washington,  by  his  brother,  Colonel  Samuel  Wash- 
ington, in  1752,  and  many  a  pretty  maid,  stately  matron  and  gallant 
gentleman  of  Virginia  has  rejoiced  in  the,  hospitality  of  the  Wash- 
ingtons  at  Harewood.  A  list  of  their  names  would  be  a  list  of  all  the 
famous  "  F.  F.  V.'s."  This  old  receipt  is  from  an  old  book  of  Mrs. 
Samuel  Washington  of  "  Harewood,"  Virginia,  bearing  date  1822,  and 
copied  by  her  daughter,  Mrs.  Lucy  E.  Washington,  of  "  Harewood," 
in  1840. 

Contributed  by  Her  Granddaughter,  Mrs.  John  M.  Cardeza,   Clay- 
mont, Del. 

Take  large  yellow  or  white  clingstone  peaches  (not  too  ripe),  rub 
off  the  down  with  a  flannel  cloth  and  score  them  down  the  rind  with 
a  needle.  Scald  them  with  boiling  water,  let  them  remain  until  cold, 
keeping  them  well  covered  all  the  time  to  enable  the  steam  to  go 
thoroughly  through  them.  Take  them  out  and  spread  them  in  a  cloth 
to  dry.  Make  your  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  twelve 
peaches,  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water  to  sugar,  white  of  one  egg.  Boil 
sugar  well  and  skim  until  it  becomes  perfectly  clear.  Then  put  in  the 
peaches,  let  them  come  to  a  good  boil,  let  them  stand  in  syrup  until 
next  day,  then  add  the  brandy,  1  pt.  to  each -pound  of  peaches.  Put 
them  in  a  sealed  jar. 

PEACH  ENCHO. 

Anna  Ledyard  Cuyler  ( 1845) . 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Seven  lbs.  fruit  sliced  or  halved,  3*^  sugar,  1  pt.  vinegar.  Put  a 
couple  tablespoons  of  whole  cinnamon  or  cassia  buds,  and  1  tablespoon 
whole  cloves  in  a  lace  bag.  Tie  up  closely,  and  boil  it  until  sufficiently 
spiced,  then  remove.     Boil  fruit  until  thick  as  marmalade,  then  bottle. 


PRESERVES  3I, 

PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Cut  from  pineapple  a  part  of  the  stem,  leaving  about  I  or  2  inches 
on  the  fruit.  Put  in  a  pot  of  water  (I  prefer  copper,  never  an  iron 
one).  It  will  take  some  hours  on  fire,  5  or  more.  Test  fruit  by  run- 
ning a  straw  through ;  don't  let  it  get  too  soft.  When  this  can  be 
done,  take  off,  peel  carefully  taking  out  eyes,  slice  in  thick  slices,  cut 
out  core,  weigh,  and  to  each  lb.  of  fruit  il/2  lbs.  granulated  sugar. 
Put  fruit  and  layers  of  sugar  alternately  and  set  aside  until  morning  in 
stone  or  earthen  jar.  Cover  top  well  with  sugar.  In  the  morning 
drain  off  syrup  with  every  particle  of  sugar,  scraping  from  every  piece 
of  fruit  with  silver  knife.  Put  on  fire,  after  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim 
well.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  after  skimming,  throw  in  fruit  care- 
fully, cook  10  minutes,  take  out  fruit,  place  carefully  in  jars.  Let 
syrup  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then  pour  over  fruit,  covering  well  with 
syrup. 

TO  BRANDY  PEACHES. 
1806. 

Miss  Nancy  Cope's  recipe,  a  celebrated  Philadelphian,  a  contem- 
porary and  an  intimate  friend  of  Mrs.  Margaret  Coleman  Hemphill. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Francis  Taylor  Chambers,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  1  lb.  of  Heath  peaches,  y2  lb.  of  loaf  sugar.  To  get  off  the 
skin  they  must  be  thrown  into  a  lye  made  of  scalding  potash,  when 
after  remaining  a  few  minutes  they  may  be  taken  out  and  rubbed  clean 
with  a  coarse  cloth  and  thrown  into  cold  water.  To  make  the  syrup 
in  which  they  are  to  be  boiled,  strew  some  of  the  sugar  over  the 
peaches,  which  makes  liquid  enough  to  dissolve  the  remainder,  in  which 
boil  them  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  they  must  then  be  taken  out  of 
the  syrup  and  laid  on  dishes  until  the  following  day.  Then  to  1  pt.  of 
syrup  add  1  pt.  of  white  brandy,  mix  them  well  together  and  cover  the 
peaches  with  it  as  you  lay  them  in  your  jars,  which  must  be  closed 
very  tight. 


3i2  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

STUFFED   APPLES. 

A  recipe  from  a  written  recipe  book  compiled  from  Mrs.  R.  O. 
Pritchard's  collected  and  original  recipes,  of  New  Orleans,  by  Mrs. 
Theodore  Shute,  New  Orleans,  1894. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Herbert  L.  Clark,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  10  good  sized  sound  apples  (not  sweet).  Core  them, 
removing  as  much  of  the  inside  as  possible  without  making  too  thin. 
Chop  fine  two  of  the  same  kind  of  apples,  also  J/2  tumbler  of  seeded 
raisins,  *4  °f  pecans  after  being  picked  out,  the  raisins  cut  with 
scissors,  the  pecans  chopped  fine.  Mix  with  them  butter  and  sugar 
and  stuff  the  apples.  Bake  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sherry  to  each 
apple.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  to  which  add  a  little  sherry,  the 
cream  put  over  the  apples.  After  placing  in  dish  mount  top  of  each 
with  candied  cherry. 

CURRANT    AND    RAISIN   JAM. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Maivr,  Pa. 

Three  and  one  half  lbs.  currants,  3  lbs.  sugar,  1  lb.  raisins,  2 
oranges.  First,  seed  the  raisins,  and  put  a  pint  of  water  on  them,  and 
boil  for  1  hour.  While  raisins  are  cooking,  pick  over  the  currants, 
squeeze  the  juice  from  the  oranges,  and  keep  the  peel.  Then  put 
orange  juice  and  peel  with  the  currants,  and  let  boil  15  minutes. 
Finally,  put  all  together,  and  boil  the  whole  for  15  minutes  more. 
Then  fill  glasses  while  hot,  and  afterwards  seal. 

ORANGE    MARMALADE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson,  Richmond,  Va. 

Slice  and  chop  in  fine  pieces  6  oranges  and  2  lemons ;  to  1  qt.  of 
fruit  juice  and  rind  add  1  qt.  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  boil  until  tender,  set  aside  again.  Next  day  weigh, 
and  add  1%  lbs.  of  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit.  Boil  until  chips  of 
orange  look  clear  and  the  syrup  jellies. 


PRESERVES  313 

BRANDIED  PEACHES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Elsie  Ramce  Arguimbau,  New  York  (1845). 

White  peaches,  free  stones,  brush  the  clown  off,  stick  each  with  a 
large  needle  in  several  places  and  put  in  cold  water  to  cover  them,  put 
kettle  on  moderate  fire,  keep  it  scalding  hot  without  boiling,  until  the 
fruit  will  yield  to  the  touch,  then  put  them  carefully  with  a  skimmer 
into  cold  water,  let  them  remain  10  minutes,  then  drain,  then  cover 
with  fresh  water  and  remain  15  minutes,  drain  again  and  cover  lastly 
with  cold,  and  stand  10  minutes.  Take  Y\  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit, 
one  small  teacup  of  water  to  each  lb.  of  sugar;  put  on  fire  and  boil 
until  thick,  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  white  brandy  and  pour  over 
fruit. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

Mrs.    Gabriel    Benoist    Shields    (nee    Catherine    Surget.    of 
Natchez,  Miss.  1817). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Louise  Puquet  du  Bellet,  of  Natchez,  Miss. 

Take  figs  nearly  ripe.  Cut  them  across  on  the  top  in  the  form 
of  a  cross.  Let  them  remain  in  strong  salted  water  for  3  days,  chang- 
ing water  every  day.  After  3  days  boil  them  in  fresh  water  with 
grape  or  fig  leaves  until  quite  green.  Then  put  in  cold  water  for  3 
days,  changing  water  twice  daily.  After  this  add  1  lb.  of  white  sugar 
to  each  lb.  of  figs,  and  put  on  to  boil  for  a  short  while.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  put  aside  for  a  day  or  two,  after  which  add  2  or  more  lbs. 
of  sugar,  and  boil  again  until  done.  While  the  figs  are  boiling,  add 
either  sliced  lemon  or  root  ginger  to  your  taste. 

PRALINES  —  CREOLE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  G.  H.  Ellerbe,  New  Orleans,  La. 

Eight  cups  of  sugar,  8  cups  of  chopped  pecans,  2.]/z  cups  of  water. 
Let  .sugar  and  water  syrup  and  come  to  a  boil,  cook  until  it  ropes, 
then  add  nuts  and  stir  until  cool.  A  few  drops  of  vanilla  may  be 
added  if  desired. 


3H 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


TO    PRESERVE   QUINCES    WHITE. 

Miss  Gibbs,  of  Boston,  September  24TH,  1812. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  &  Mrs.  John-  Cadwalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  put  3  half  pints  of  water  and  whites 
and  shells  of  3  eggs,  boil  and  skim  well,  until  it  is  clear,  and  put  the 
quinces  on  the  fire  in  cold  water ;  let  them  simmer  until  they  are  tender, 
let  them  cool  a  little,  pare  them  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  them  in  quarters, 
take  out  the  core  and  all  hard  or  bruised  parts ;  put  the  quinces  in  the 
preserving  pan  with  syrup  enough  to  cover  them,  allowing  for  evapora- 
tion; cover  the  preserving  pan  until  they  begin  to  boil,  then  uncover 
them  and  skim  them  constantly,  till  they  look  transparent,  when  they 
will  be  done.  Pour  a  little  syrup  in  the  bottom  of  the  jar,  then  put  a 
slice  of  quince,  then  pour  a  little  syrup,  and  SO'  on  until  the  jar  is  nearly 
filled.  The  remainder  of  the  syrup  should  be  boiled  the  next  day  and 
poured  over  the  quinces. 

YELLOW  TOMATO   PRESERVE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  tomatoes,  and  *4  pt.  °f  water  for  each 
pound.  Flavor  with  sliced  lemon  which  has  been  boiled  before  slicing, 
and  ginger  root.  Tomatoes  may  be  strained  or  not,  as  one  pleases,  but 
skin  the  tomatoes.  Make  syrup  of  water  and  sugar.  When  boiling 
add  tomatoes  and  lemon  slices  and  ginger.  Boil  till  clear,  then  remove 
fruit  and  boil  syrup  until  thick. 

PECAN  MACAROONS. 

Mrs.  Oliver  Bonsh,  Austin,  Texas. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

Three  fourths  of  a  lb.  of  pecans  cut  in  bits,  y2  lb.  light  brown 

sugar,  3  eggs,  whites  only,  a  little  cinnamon ;  whip  eggs,  add  sugar  and 

nuts.      If  eggs  are  large,  add  more  pecans.     Bake  on  paper  in»cool 

oven  nearly  2  hours. 


PRESERVES  315 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  B.  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Dissolve  T/2  lb.  of  clear  white  gum  arabic  in  1  pt.  of  water.  Strain 
and  add  y2  lb.  of  refined  sugar,  place  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly 
until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  the  mixture  has  become  like  honey.  Then 
add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  previously  beaten.  Keep  stirring  the  mixture 
until  it  becomes  thin  and  does  not  adhere  to  the  fingers.  Flavor  with 
rose  or  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  pan  dusted  over  with  powdered  starch. 
When  cool  divide  into  squares. 

PECAN   KISSES. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Take  1  jelly  glass  of  pecan  kernels,  having  the  nuts  as  nearly  in 
halves  as  possible.  Into  the  white  of  6  eggs  put  14  tablespoons  of 
granulated  sugar.  Have  the  spoons  a  little  more  than  level  full.  Mix 
sugar  and  eggs  well  and  beat  thoroughly,  long  and  well,  until  they  are 
stiff  enough  and  will  stand  on  paper  without  running.  Beat  in  lightly 
the  pecans  and  drop  on  smooth  brown  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

BRANDY   STRAWBERRIES. 

Miss  Marie  Louise  Hoxie,  Philadelphia,  Pa..  1858. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit,  boil  3  to  5  minutes.  To  7  lbs. 
of  fruit,  1  pt.  of  brandy  after  it  cools. 

GINGERED   PEARS. 

Grandma  Minor. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Katharine  Willcox,  IVestport,  Conn. 

Eight  lbs.  sliced  pears  (thin),  4  lbs.  sugar  or  less  (3  lbs.),  1  cup 
water,  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  rinds  cut  thin,  y$  lb.  green  ginger  root  in 
pieces.      Cook  until  thick  as  marmalade. 


3i6  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

WINE  JELLY. 

Madam  Stephen  Ward,  East  Chester,  N.  Y.  (1760). 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa. 

One  pi.  good  sherry  or  Madeira,  1  lb.  sugar,  whites  and  shells  of 
4  eggs,  2  oz.  isinglass,  juice  of  4  lemons,  rind  of  1  lemon.  Last  of  all 
add  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When  it  does 
so,  boil  for  15  minutes,  take  out  the  egg  shells  and  strain  through  a 
thick  woolen  jelly  bag  until  clear.  Pour  in  moulds  and  put  away 
to  cool. 

GRAPE  JAM. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon,  Bryn  Mazw,  Pa. 

Six  lbs.  grapes,  2  lbs.  raisins,  4  lbs.  sugar,  4  large  oranges.  Boil 
the  grapes  (the  pulp)  until  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  colander, 
then  add  to  skins  and  boil  10  minutes,  then  add  sugar  and  cook  20 
minutes,  then  add  raisins  and  orange  peel,  and  cook  all  together  until 
jellied.  The  raisins  must  be  seeded  and  chopped,  and  only  the  yellow 
rind  of  the  orange  chopped  fine.     This  is  really  a  recipe  for  tart  plums. 

ORANGE   MARMALADE. 
M.  E.  Leager,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgozv,  Jr. 

Thirteen  oranges,  4  lemons,  8  lbs.  of  sugar.  Slice  very  thin  right 
through  the  fruit.  Take  out  the  seeds  in  slicing.  Put  in  a  stone  jar 
and  add  4  qts.  of  water.  Let  it  stand  for  36  hours,  then  boil  1  hour 
and  a  half.  Add  sugar  and  boil  for  1  hour,  when  it  should  jelly.  Do 
riot  use  ends  of  fruit. 

COUSIN  MARION'S  GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVE. 

To  a  pound  of  tomatoes,  y2  lb.  of  sugar  and  a  lemon.  To  each 
7  lbs.  of  tomatoes,  2  oz.  of  green  ginger.  Slice  tomatoes  and  lemons, 
put  sugar  and  all  together,  boil  until  nicely  soft,  add  a  very  little  water. 


PRESERVES  31; 

CARAMEL  ALMONDS. 

Adelaide  Y.  Chilton,  Goderich,  Lake  Huron. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Wui.  A.  Glasgoiv,  Jr. 

Blanch  a  cupful  of  almonds  and  add  to  them  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  Place  the  cup  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  an  hour, 
then  drain  the  nuts  and  spread  in  a  shallow  pan.  Cook  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  15  minutes.  Put  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
in  a  frying  pan  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  turns  liquid. 
Instantly  add  the  browned  almonds  and  stir  for  half  a  minute.  Spread 
them  on  a  plate  to  cool. 

PEACH    LEATHER. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Susan  Lymar  Morris  Bruce,  Chestnut  Hill,  Pa. 

A  Famous  Old  Southern  Receipt. 

Take  a  peck  of  soft  free  stone  peaches,  pound  them,  press  the  pulp 
through  a  coarse  sieve  and  to  4  qts.  of  pulp  add  1  pt.  of  good  brown 
sugar.  Mix  them  well  together  and  boil  about  2  minutes.  Spread  the 
paste  on  plates  and  put  them  in  the  sun  every  day  until  the  paste  on 
plates  looks  dry  and  will  leave  the  plates  readily  by  passing  a  knife 
around  the  edge  of  the  cakes.  Dust  some  white  sugar  over  the  rough 
side  and  roll  them  up.  Like  sweet  wafers,  if  kept  in  a  dry  place  they 
will  keep  for  several  months.  If  weather  is  hot,  three  days  will  dry 
them. 

PECAN  KISSES. 

Mrs.  Philip  Harding,  Vicksburg,  Miss. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

One  jelly  glass  of  kernels,  into  the  whites  of  6  eggs  put  *4  table- 
spoon granulated  sugar,  a  little  more  than  level  full,  and  beat  until 
stiff  enough  to  drop  on  paper  without  running.  Add  broken  nuts  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  It  is  best  to  turn  baking  pans  upside  down 
while  bakinsr. 


3i8  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHOCOLATE    CARAMEL. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Caroline  Duer,  New  Jersey. 

One  half  lb.  of  Baker's  chocolate,  y%  lb.  butter,  i  cup  cream,  23/2 
cups  molasses,  25^2  cups  chop  chocolate,  add  sugar  and  cream,  mix 
them  and  put  on  to  boil,  adding  butter  from  time  to  time.  Boil  about 
20  minutes,  or  when  brittle  when  dropped  in  water.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  at  last. 

TO   PRESERVE   QUINCES. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Powel,  Philadelphia,  Pa.   (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  then  put  them  in  cold  water,  and  let 
them  coddle  for  about  J/2  hour ;  take  them  out,  and  to  5  lbs.  of  quinces 
allow  4  lbs.  of  sugar,  which  must  be  wetted  with  a  little  water  and 
well  skimmed ;  then  put  your  quinces  in  and  cover  them  very  close  till 
they  are  boiled  enough.  Tie  a  few  seeds  in  a  piece  of  rag,  and  boil 
them  with  the  syrup ;  it  will  help  to  thicken  it.  Reserve  ^4  lb-  sugar, 
which,  when  the  quinces  are  boiled  enough,  you  add  to  the  syrup. 

MINT  CREAM. 

Mrs.  Elwood  Newton,  Manitou,  Col. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  L.  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

One  lb.  of  sugar,  6  tablespoons  of  water,  one-third  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  6  drops  oil  of  peppermint.  Boil  3  minutes,  add  cream  of  tartar 
and  peppermint,  removing  from  fire  and  stir  until  it  creams.  Drop  on 
oil  paper. 

CARAMELS. 

Mary  Rice. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

■  One  cup  of  grated  Baker's  chocolate,  }4  teacup  of  milk,  2  cups 
of  brown  sugar.  Piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Boil  hard  for  15 
minutes  in  a  flat  pan  and  test  by  dropping  in  cold  water. 


DAINTIES, 


DAINTIES. 

CHEESE    FONDU    AU    GRATIN. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  dry  bread  crumbs  for  15  minutes  in  2  cupfuls 
of  hot  milk.  Dissolve  a  generous  pinch  of  soda  in  the  milk  while 
heating-.  Stir  into  this  paste  3  well  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Lastly, 
beat  in  rapidly  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese.  Pour  into  a  greased  pudding 
dish,  strew  dry  cracker  crumbs  on  top,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  them,  dust 
delicately  with  cayenne  pepper  or  paprika,  and  bake  in  quick  oven, 
covered,  for  15  minutes.  Then  uncover  and  brown  lightly.  Send  to 
table  at  once,  as  it  falls  very  soon.  While  puffy  and  hot  it  is  most 
delicious. 

WELSH    RAREBIT. 

Half  lb.  of  cheese,  2  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  y2  teaspoon  mustard,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  cup  of  cream. 
Break  the  cheese  in  small  pieces,  put  it  and  the  other  ingredients  in 
bright  saucepan  which  put  over  boiling  water.  Stir  until  the  cheese 
melts,  then  spread  the  mixture  on  slices  of  crisp  toast.  Serve  imme- 
diately.    A  cup  of  ale  or  beer  can  be  used  instead  of  cream. 

CREAM    SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Cleveland,  Houston,  Texas. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  Lindsay  Pollard,  Austin,  Texas. 

Grate  a  plate  of  ham  or  tongue.  Boil  3  eggs  half  an  hour 
and  drop  in  ice  water.  When  thoroughly  cold  mix  the  yolks  to  a 
cream  with  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  butter  and  enough  cream  to  make  it 
smooth  paste.  Add  meat  seasoning  with  a  pinch  of  dry  mustard  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Cut  crust  from  bread  and  slice  thin. 
2i  321 


322  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CHEESECAKE. 

A  very  old  receipt,  used  by  Mrs.  George  D.  Wetherill  with  success. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Morris  Hacker,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  %  lb.  butter.  *4  lb.  sugar,  beat  to  a  cream  one  wineglass  of 
wine  and  one  of  brandy,  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light.  To  a  small 
dipperful  of  cottage  cheese  take  one  tumbler  of  cream  and  beat  to- 
gether, then  add  to  the  latter.  Stir  in  y2  lb.  stale  cake  crumbs,  sponge 
cake,  pound  cake,  or  any  good  cake,  the  richer  the  better  your  pie  will 
be,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to>  a  snow,  one  small  nutmeg,  little  cinna- 
mon and  grated  lemon  rind  to  taste.  Spread  very  thick  on  a  single 
crust,  and  this  will  be  enough  for  two  pies  or  one  cheesecake.  The 
white  of  the  eggs  are  to  go  into  the  cheesecake  and  not  on  top. 

CALVES'   FOOT  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Toland,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 

Boil  the  feet  in  about  a  gallon  of  water  to  each  set,  until  clear  of 
the  bone.  Strain  and  stand  away  until  the  next  day.  Then  wipe  the 
stock  with  a  cloth  or  tissue  paper,  after  carefully  skimming  off  all 
grease,  so  that  no  particle  remains,  and  measure  your  firm  stock  jelly. 
To  each  qt.  of  stock  allow  1  scant  lb.  of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  wine,  the  juice 
of  3  lemons,  and  the  rind  of  2,  peeled  thin,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
with  the  shells.  Put  on  stock,  sugar  and  lemon  juice ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
hot,  throw  in  the  eggs  to  clear  it;  boil  about  10  minutes;  throw  in  the 
wine,  bring  to  a  boil  once,  then  drip  through  a  bag. 

DAFFODIL  SANDWICHES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Slice  bread  very  thin,  cut  with  a  cake  cutter  with  a  hole  in  the  center 
about  the  size  of  a  thimble.  Fill  with  lettuce,  cream  cheese  and 
mayonnaise  dressing. 


DAINTIES  323 

TO  MAKE  CREAM  CHEESE. 

Westover,  Va.,  October  30TH,  1787. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Take  5  pts.  of  new  milk  and  warm  it.     Then  add  to  it  5  pts.  of 
cream,  with  2  tablespoon fuls  of  rennet.     When  it  is  sufficiently  turned 
you  press  it,  and  in  2  or  3  days  it  can  be  eaten. 

NEW  ORLEANS   COFFEE  BRULO. 

From  "  Antoine  of  New  Orleans  ". 

Contributed  by  Houston  Eldredge,  Fortress  Monroe,  Va. 

A  tray  is  brought  to  the  hostess  bearing-  a  coffee  urn,  a  silver 
bowl  with  a  wide  mouth,  a  small  ladle,  a  little  flask  of  brandy,  a  small 
dish  of  loaf  sugar,  another  of  whole  spices,  and  still  another  with  the 
peel  of  a  mandarin  orange  minced  fine. 

Put  in  the  bowl  a  lump  of  sugar  for  each  person,  a  tablespoonful 
of  whole  cloves,  three  stalks  of  cinnamon  broken  up,  and  the  orange 
peel.  Cover  all  this  with  the  brandy,  light  it,  let  it  burn,  stirring  it 
occasionally. 

When  the  flame  disappears,  pour  in  the  coffee,  which  must  be 
black  and  strong,  till  the  bowl  is  full.  Stir  once  more  and  ladle  out 
the  brew  into  coffee  cups. 

The  only  thing  to  make  this  a  complete  success  is  the  wide 
mouthed  bowl.     Be  sure  to  use  one  in  which  the  heat  is  not  confined. 

ITALIAN    CHEESE. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Katharine  Willcox,  JVestport,  Conn. 

Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal.  When  perfectly  cooked,  strain  the  liquor, 
remove  the  fat,  take  out  the  bones,  chop  the  meat  fine,  add  1  grated 
nutmeg,  j4  oz.  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper.  Put  the  mixture  on 
the  fire  to  simmer  gently,  and  when  the  liquor  becomes  jelly,  pour  into 
a  mould,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  next  day.  You  may  line  the  mould 
with  hard  boiled  egg  cut  in  slices. 


324  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

FOR  THE   SICK. 

Caudle  (London,  1855). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson,    Philadaelphia,  Pa. 

It  is  made  in  various  ways.  Make  a  fine,  smooth  gruel  of  half 
grits ;  strain  it  when  boiled  well,  stir  it  at  different  times  till  cold. 
When  to  be  used,  add  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon  peel  with  nutmeg. 
Some  like  a  spoonful  of  brandy  besides  the  wine,  others  like  lemon 
juice. 

Or,  boil  l/2  pt.  of  fine  gruel,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
nutmeg,  a  large  spoonful  of  brandy,  white  wine,  and  1  of  capillaire. 

FOR  THE   SICK. 

Mulled  Wine  (Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1850). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Half  a  pint  of  wine,  */>  pint  of  water,  1  egg,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to 
taste.  Mix  the  wine  and  water  together,  let  it  boil.  Beat  the  eggs 
in  a  pan,  pour  them  into  the  wine,  then  quickly  pour  the  whole  from 
one  vessel  into  another,  5  or  6  times. 

CHEESE   PATTIES. 

Mrs.  Henry  Parkman,  Boston,  Mass. 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter  and  flour,  add  milk  and  beaten  yolk 
ot  2  eggs,  season,  grate  in  American  cheese,  set  away  to  cool.  Make 
pastry  cases,  snd  when  ready  to  serve,  beat  your  white  of  eggs  light 
and  fold  into  cheese  mixture.  Put  into  cases  and  heat  and  serve 
immediately. 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Half  lb.  of  flour,  }/2  lb.  grated  cheese,  *4  lb-  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  y2  small  spoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Roll  out  very  thin  and  cut  in 
little  strips.     Bake  quickly.     Mix  like  pastry. 


DAINTIES  325 

TOASTED   CHEESE. 

English  Receipt,   i8th  Century. 

Elsie  Chapin,  Hot  Springs,  Va. 

Grate  3  oz.  of  good  cheese,  mix  it  with  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  3  oz. 
of  butter.  Beat  well,  with  dessertspoonful  of  mustard,  some  suet  and 
red  pepper.  Toast  some  bread  in  2  inch  narrow  pieces,  spread  the 
mixture  very  thickly  upon  it,  put  them  in  a  covered  pan  and  put  in 
oven  till  hot  through.     Then  remove  cover  and  let  the  cheese  brown. 

FOR  THE   SICK. 
Sago  Milk  (Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1850). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mash  y2  oz.  of  sago  and  soak  it  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water  for 
an  hour  or  more.  Drain  it  and  add  3  gills  of  good  milk.  Put  it  over 
the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  until  the  sago  is  entirely  incorporated  with 
the  milk.  Sweeten  it  with  white  sugar.  It  may  be  flavored  with 
vanilla  or  nutmeg,  if  allowed  by  the  physician. 

CREAM  CHEESE. 

Dr.  Horace  Howard  Furness,  Linden  Shade  Farm, 
Pennsylvania. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Win,  D.  Winsor,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Take  1  qt.  of  good  cream,  let  it  stand  two  days  in  a  moderately 
warm  place,  stirring  in  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Then  put  it  in  a  piece 
of  cheese  cloth  and  lay  it  on  a  plate  on  a  porcelain  lined  colander,  cov- 
ering it  with  another  plate,  on  which  put  a  weight.  Leave  it  for  24 
hours,  then  change  the  cloth.  Do  this  a  third  time  and  it  will  then 
be  fit  to  use.  It  can  be  made  more  quickly  of  sour  cream  of  3  or  4 
days. 


32^ 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


WELSH   RAREBIT. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Annie  S.  Hammond,  Providence,  R.  I. 

Five  large  spoonfuls  of  milk,  a  good  deal  of  soft  fresh  rich  cream 
Connecticut  cheese,  2  oz.  butter,  7  spoonfuls  mixed  mustard,  red  pep- 
per, and  1  egg  put  in  at  the  last  moment  and  stirred  furiously. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

HAIR   TONIC.     EXCELLENT. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  E.  F.  Griffiths,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

One  package  of  sage  tea  steeped  half  a  day  slowly,  then  strain, 
add  y2  a  pt.  of  whiskey  and  25  grains  of  quinine.  Use  daily  at  night 
until  hair  ceases  to  fall  out. 

To  Prevent  Lockjaw. 

Apply  beef  gall  at  once.  Old  and  well  known  remedy  or  pre- 
ventive. 

To  Cure  Diarrhoea. 

Make  a  tea  of  strawberry  leaves  and  drink  it  or  chew  them. 
Also :     34   glass  of  claret,    l/2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  3  times 
a  day  will  cure  chronic  trouble. 

BARRY'S  TRICOPHEROUS. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Pauline  Johnson,  Strafford,  Pa. 

One  qt.  of  alcohol,  1  oz.  ticture  of  cantharides,  2  oz.  compound 
spirits  of  lavender,  5  oz.  best  castor  oil.  Shake  well  the  three  first 
articles  together,  then  add  the  oil,  let  it  stand  until  well  mixed,  shaking 
often.  Rub  into  the  scalp  with  a  little  piece  of  sponge  two  or  more 
times  a  week. 

WASH  FOR  BLANKETS. 

Katharine  Comerford  Barry,  New  York   (1746). 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Two  large  tablespoons  of  borax,  1  pint  of  soft  soap,  or  dissolve 
hard  soap,  into  large  tub  of  cold  water.  When  dissolved,  put  in  1  pair 
of  blankets,  let  them  remain  all  night.  Next  day  rub  them  and  rinse 
in  two  waters,  all  cold.  Put  a  little  blue  in  second  water;  do  not 
wring,  but  hang  out  to  dry  from  water. 

329 


33o  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MRS.    JUDGE  FREDERICK  SMITH'S  SALVE   (1800). 

Take  a  pound  of  Castile  soap,  slice  it  very  thin,  put  it  in  a  brass 
skillet,  to  a  pint  of  linseed  oil;  let  it  boil  very  well  over  a  slow  fire, 
until  it  boils  up  like  soap-suds,  then  take  it  off  and  let  it  cool ;  then  put 
it  on  again,  add  to  it  y2  lb.  of  red  lead,  and  as  much  white,  both 
finely  sifted,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  when  it  begins  to  incorporate 
and  turn  brown,  put  into  it  1  shilling's  worth  of  the  oil  of  amber ;  take 
care  you  don't  let  it  turn  black ;  wet  a  table  and  pour  it  on,  and  as  soon 
as  it  cools  make  it  up  in  balls.  (Apply  to  inflamed  or  hardened  sur- 
face on  body.) 

MARGARET'S  TRIED  RECIPE  FOR  CHILLS  AND  FEVER. 

Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin,  Orange,  N.  J. 

One  oz.  Peruvian  bark,  1  oz.  cream  of  tartar,  ]/2  oz.  whole  cloves, 
y2  oz.  cinnamon  broken  up,  1  pt.  of  port  wine.  Mix  all  together. 
Dose :     One  tablespoonful  4  times  a  day. 

CANADA  THISTLE  TEA. 

Tops  and  leaves,  2  oz.  of  the  thistles,  3  pts.  of  cold  water.  Put 
over  a  slow  fire  and  steep  it  to  1  pt.,  then  strain  and  set  to  cool.  Take 
a  small  wineglass  full  3  times  a  day  about  half  an  hour  before  each 
meal  for  neuralgia  in  the  face. 

JEPTHA  BALDWIN'S  LINIMENT  FOR  ACHING  MUSCLES. 

1800. 

Contributed  by  Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin,  Orange,  N.  J. 

Half  pt.  of  alcohol,  y  pt.  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  y2  pt.  of  vinegar, 
1  egg  broken  into  a  bottle.     To  be  well  shaken  before  using. 

REBECCA    ELLIOTT'S    CURE    FOR    COLD. 

Half  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  y2  lb.  of  honey  strained,  5c  worth  of 
"  balsam  of  fir."     Dose :  One  dessertspoonful  3  times  a  day. 


MISCELLANEOUS  33I 

MRS.    EMLEN'S  RECEIPT  FOR  EYE   WATER. 

Taken   from   Mrs.   Lawrence's   Receipt  Book    (1800). 

Contributed  by  Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Cadzvalader,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

For  two  quarts  :  Take  1  oz.  of  white  vitriol  and  4  scruples  of  sugar 
of  lead.  Infuse  them  into  2  qts.  of  spring  or  snow  water  and  shake 
it  every  time  you  use  it. 

SAFE,  SURE  AND  QUICK  RELIEF  FOR  RHEUMATIC 

PAINS. 

One  lb.  of  washing  soda  in  J/2  bath  tub  of  hot  water.  Soak  the 
body  in  it  for  1 5  minutes  or  y2  an  hour. 

FOR   ANTS. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Pauline  Johnson,  Strafford,  Pa. 

Draw  a  line  of  chalk  where  red  ants  are,  and  they  will  not  cross 
it.     Sprinkle  borax  inside  the  line,  and  you  will  soon  be  rid  of  them. 


ADDITIONAL 
RARE    OLD   RECEIPTS. 


CONTRIBUTORS, 

Mrs.   Davis  Carneal  Anderson Cincinnati,   O. 

Mrs.   Ferree  Brinton    St.  Davids,  Pa. 

Mrs.   Francis   von   A.    Cabeen Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Miss  Clara  Townley   Chase Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  De  Courcey  May \ Baltimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning West  Chester,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Lewis  H.  English Nezv  Haven,  Conn. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Esling Stuttgart,  Germany 

Mr.  Charles  H.  A.  Esling Stuttgart,  Germany 

Mrs.  George  D.  Fowle Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  John  C.  Groome Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Anthony  M.   Hance Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.   James   Haughton Bryn  Mawr,   Pa. 

Mrs.  Charles  F.  Hinckle Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Elisha  Howard Providence,  R.  L 

Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mr.  John  Lambert Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Charles  M.  Lea Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Lockwood Providence,  R.  I. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Maud Monterey,  California 

Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes Ardmore,  Pa. 

Mr.  William  Attmore  Robinson Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Frank  Samuel    Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Wm.  .Carpenter  Scott Ardmore,  Pa. 

Mr.  Jonathan  Dickinson  Sergeant Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mrs.  John  Swan Baltimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart New  York  City 

Mrs.  Fred'k  Sylvester   Haverford,  Pa. 

Miss  Anne  H.  Wharton Philadelphia,  Pa. 

335 


RARE     OLD     RECEIPTS. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Edith  Lockzvood  Danieldson  Hozuard, 
Mrs.  Elisha  Howard,  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

i/<2  pounds  sugar,  3  eggs,  1^2  pounds  flour,  iy2  tumblerfuls  of 
water,  1%.  pounds  butter;  cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  one 
egg  at  a  time,  beating  vigorously;  add  one-half  the  flour,  then  the 
water,  and  then  the  rest  of  the  flour.  When  all  are  well  mixed,  add 
1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.     This  makes  three  large*  round  cakes. 

Filling — One  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  broken 
up.  Mix  in  boiled  icing  and  spread  between  cakes,  saving  enough  for 
the  top  of  cake. 

Icing — Two  tumblers  sugar,  1  tumbler  water.  Boil  till  syrup 
will  spin  like  glass,  then  pour  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten ;  beat 
the  white  till  it  thickens  and  put  in  the  nuts  and  raisins.  Flavor  cake 
with  extract  of  almond,  and  icing  with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  rose. 

YORKSHIRE  MUFFINS. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  Davis  Corneal  Anderson,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

3^2  pounds  flour,  1  cake  of  yeast,  ]/2  ounce  salt,  1  quart  tepid 
water.  Mix  together,  beat  twenty  minutes.  Set  at  night,  beat  down 
in  the  morning ;  let  rise  again ;  beat  down  a  second  time ;  turn  out  on 
bed  of  flour  and  with  a  spoon  turn  over  in  the  flour.  Grease  the 
muffin  rings ;  set  rings  in  a  pan,  fill  with  batter  and  let  rise  level  with 
pan  and  bake  on  top  of  range. 

337 


338  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  A.  D.  Lockwood,  Providence,  R.  I. 

*  i  cup  broken  butter,  2  cups  Porto  Rico  molasses,   1  cup  brown 

sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  yellow  ginger,  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  salt.  Put  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  ginger,  soda  and  salt 
together  in  a  porcelain  sauce  pan  and  set  on  the  fire,  stirring  till  it 
boils  and  keeping  at  the  boiling  point  for  five  minutes.  Pour  off  into  a 
big  bowl  and  begin  at  once  to  stir  in  your  flour  (enough  to  make  it 
as  stiff  as  can  be  rolled).  Do  it  quickly,  moulding  it  with  your  hand 
as  it  gums  too  stiff  for  the  spoon.  It  will  not  stick.  Take  what  you 
can  manage  at  a  time  and  roll  out  very  thin  on  a  floured  bowl. 
Cut  it  in  small  rounds,  lay  in  shallow  pans  and  bake  immediately. 

THE  ORIGINAL  FISH  HOUSE  PUNCH.— 1732. 

The  Schuylkill  Fishing  Company,  organized  in  1732  as  "  The 
Colony  in  Schuylkill."  In  1871  "  The  Colony  in  Schuylkill  "  became 
"  State  in  Schuylkill."  The  club  exists  to-day,  and  is  generally 
spoken  of  as  the  "  Fish  House."  It  is  at  CornwelFs  Station,  New 
York  Division,  Penn.  R.  R.,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa. 

Contributed  by  Agnes  P.  Roberts  Groome,  Mrs.  John  C.  Groome, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

2  qts.  of  Jamaica  Rum,  1  qt.  brandy,  1  qt.  lemon  juice,  1  gill 
of  peach  brandy,  %  of  a  lb.  of  loaf  sugar,  10  lb.  block  of  ice.  Dis- 
solve the  sugar  in  1  qt.  of  cold  water,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  place 
in  bowl,  add  the  liquor,  which  has  been  previously  mixed,  then  the  ice, 
and  allow  to  brew  for  two  hours,  occasionally  ladling  the  punch  over 
the  ice. 

MUFFINS  IN  RINGS. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Lewis  H.  English,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Two  cups  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder.     Bake  on  griddle  in  rings. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  339 

GRAND    BOUILLON. 
Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhii,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Put  into  a  large  pot  a  piece  of  beef  and  the  scraps  and  parings 
of  butcher's  meat,  such  as  beef,  veal,  mutton,  and  add  to  these  car- 
casses, feet,  necks,  etc.,  of  the  poultry  and  game  which  have  been 
prepared  for  cooking ;  season  with  a  few  turnips,  6  or  8  carrots,  the 
same  of  onions,  a  clove  or  garlic,  3  to  6  cloves,  a  bunch  of  pot-herbs, 
and  a  little  salt. 

Put  the  pot,  not  quite  filled  with  water,  to  a  slow  fire,  skim  it 
gently,  and  after  every  skimming,  fill  it  up  with  cold  water  until  it 
is  perfectly  limpid.  Upon  this  Grand  Bouillon  will  depend  the  ex- 
cellence of  your  sauces  and  soups,  for,  when  well  prepared,  it  is  the 
mother  which  is  to  nourish  everything.  Let  it  cook  gently  many 
hours,  then  strain  it  through  a  napkin  dipped  in  hot  water,  and  put  it 
in  a  cool  place  to  use  as  required.  When  used  for  stews,  add  a  little 
wine,  ketchup,  soy,  etc.,  to  please  your  taste.  The  articles  to  be 
cooked  must  be  browned  in  a  casserole  with  butter. 

STEWED  FISH. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

2  large  fish,  y$  lb.  butter,  1  bottle  of  claret,  1  wine  glass  Madeira 
wine,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  l/>  teacup  of  catsup,  2  onions  sliced, 
a  little  mace,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  parsley.  Brown  the  fish  in  butter, 
before  stewing,  and  mix  the  flour  and  butter  before  putting  them  in 
the  pan. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

Valerian  Spencer  Fullerton. 

Contributed  by  Air.  John  Lambert,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

1  $4  lbs.  flour,  }i  lb.  butter,  il/2  lbs.  sugar,  1  pt.  milk,  10  eggs, 
1  glass  brandy,  1  nutmeg,  12  cloves,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  raisins,  1 
teaspoon  Pearl  ash  dissolved  in  brandy. 


34°  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

DELICIOUSLY  STICKY  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Emeline  Iungerich  Fowle. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  D.  Fowle,  Phila.,  Pa. 

Take  6  eggs,  and  their  whole  weight,  in  powdered  sugar.  Break 
them,  and  keep  yolks  and  whites  apart.  Take  .j4  their  weight  of 
sifted  flour,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon,  unless  a  stronger 
flavor  is  desired,  then  use  2  lemons.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to- 
gether, until  very  light.  Beat  the  whites  until  they  are  so  light  and 
dry,  that  you  can  turn  the  dish  upside  down. 

Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  yolks  and  sugar,  then  half  the  flour, 
and  %  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  them  with  the  yolks  and 
sugar,  in  a  bowl,  and  mix  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then 
add  more  flour,  but  do  not  use  all  the  flour,  if  the  batter  is  thick,  for 
if  too  thick,  it  will  make  the  sponge  solid. 

The  batter  must  drop  evenly  from  the  spoon.  Then  stir  in 
lightly,  on  the  top,  the  rest  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  to  make  a  light 
crust.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 
Grease  the  pans  thickly  with  butter,  as  it  makes  the  crust  crisp.  If 
the  oven  is  too  hot,  the  cake  will  puff  up,  and  become  dry  and  brown, 
and  the  crust  will  not  form.  The  success  depends  upon  the  mixing 
and  baking. 

PASTE  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Lina  S.  Ives  Brinton,  Mrs.  Ferree  Brinton, 
St.  Davids,  Pa. 

Place  1  pt.  of  milk  on  the  fire  until  at  the  boiling  point.  Then, 
take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  it  to  a  paste  into  the  cold  milk, 
add  it  very  gradually  to  the  boiled  milk,  stirring  it  for  a  few  moments 
to  thoroughly  cook  the  paste  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Take  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cool  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  3  beaten  eggs 
beaten  together,  also  a  generous  glass  of  sherry,  or  brandy,  and  10 
large  seeded  raisins.  Pour  into  pudding  dish  lined  with  rich  pie 
paste,  and  bake  until  pudding  rises  in  the  middle. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  341 

"  RAMEQUIN." 

Contributed  by  Augustine  Mellct  H  aught  on,  Mrs.  James  Haughton, 
Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa.,  Daughter  of  Madame  Mellet  Craux,  La  Bourdon- 
nette  on  Lake  Leman.     Lausanne,  Suisse,  1830. 

J/2  lb.  of  grated  cheese,  il/2  pts.  milk,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  5 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  the  milk,  add  the  flour,  let  it  boil 
up,  add  the  cheese,  the  eggs  (the  whites  beaten  stiff),  beat  thoroughly, 
strain  it,  season  it  and  pour  on  pastry  prepared  for  small  tarts.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

BISCOTINS  IN  CHOCOLAT. 

Contributed  by  Augustine  Mellet  Haughton,  Mrs.  James  Haughton, 
Bryn  Mazvr,  Pa.,  Daughter  of  the  Rev.  Victor  Mellet,  Oron,  Can- 
ton de  Vaud,  (Suisse)  Vaud,  bounded  on  the  south  by  Lake  Leman 
with  the  Castle  of  Chillon  of  historical  fame. 

2  whites  of  eggs,  y2  lb.  sugar,  2  ounces  grated  chocolate.  Beat 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
the  chocolate.  Then  lay  it  by  spoonfuls  on  paper  powdered  with 
sugar  or  greased.     Put  in  moderate  oven. 


MARLBOROUGH  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Hacker. 

Contributed  by  Clara  Townley  Chase,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

12  tablespoons  strained  apples,  12  sugar,  12  wine,  6  melted  but- 
ter, 4  beaten  eggs,  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  ]/2  pint  milk,  Y/2 
nutmeg.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

The  above  receipt  has  always  been  spoken  of  in  our  family  as 
the  "  famous  Marlborough  Pudding."  That  is  the  way  I  have  heard 
my  father  and  grandfather  speak  of  it.  So  I  contribute  it  to  your 
book.     It  was  handed  down  by  my  great-aunt,  Mrs.  S.  B.  Hacker. 


342  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

ENGLISH  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
Clara  Townley  Chase,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

y2  lb.  suet  to  i  lb.  flour,  make  a  paste  of  this  suet  to  be  chopped 
fine,  cut  apples  in  thin  slices,  put  inside  each  dumpling  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  a  little  lemon  peel  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Grease  the  dish  well  and  place  the  dumplings  all  around,  spread  some 
nice  drippings  over  the  dumplings,  then  pour  sugar  (light  brown) 
thickly  on,  placing  a  large  quantity  in  bottom  of  dish  and  one  pint 
of  water,  as  soon  as  they  commence  to  brown,  begin  to  baste,  doing 
so  frequently,  serve  on  flat  dish. 

The  above  receipt  is  an  old  English  receipt  of  my  grandmoth- 
ers, Mrs.  Samuel  Hart,  who  was  an  English  woman. 

TARTE  A  LA  POMPADOUR. 

Charlotte  Augusta  Brown. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Charles  M.  Lea,  Phila.,  Pa. 

2  cups  of  minced  chicken,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  bay- 
leaves,  thyme,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Soak  macaroni  until  it  softens,  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  bowl,  lining 
it,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  cook  for  one  hour,  as  if  it  were  a  cus- 
tard.    Serve  with  rich  tomato  sauce. 

RECEIPT  FOR  ORDERLY  DOMESTIC  MANAGEMENT. 

"  Selected." 

Contributed  by  Mr.  Jonathan  Dickinson  Sergeant,  Philada.,  Pa. 

Let  the  mistress  of  the  house  take  2  lbs.  of  the  very  best  self- 
control,  ij/2  lbs.  of  justice,  1  lb.  of  consideration,  5  lbs.  of  patience, 
and  1  lb.  of  discipline.  Let  this  be  sweetened  with  charity;  let  it 
simmer  well,  and  let  it  be  taken  daily, —  in  extreme  cases  in  hourly 
doses  —  and  be  kept  always  on  hand ;  then  the  domestic  wheels  will 
run  quite  smoothly. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  343 

NORMANDY  FISH. 

Grandmother   Mrs.    Samuel    Hart. 

Contributed  by  Clara  Townlcy  Chase,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

5  lbs.  of  fish,  various  kinds,  clear  of  bone  and  skin.  Put  5  oz. 
of  butter  into  an  earthenware  dish,  and  set  on  the  coals,  when  the  but- 
ter is  melted,  add  from  the  dredger  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  stirring 
the  while,  then  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  black  and  red, 
but  little  of  the  latter,  a  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Then  put  in  your  fish,  cut  in 
pieces  as  large  as  two  fingers.  Pour  on  the  whole  a  glass  of  sherry 
or  Madiera,  and  a  small  wine-glass  of  good  French  brandy.  Cover 
your  dish,  put  dough  all  around  the  edge  of  cover  to  keep  in  steam, 
and  then  put  the  dish  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  serve  in  dish 
in  which  cooked,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  Taragon  vinegar. 


SUGAR  BISCUITS. 

Mrs.  Widdifield. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabcen,  Mrs.  F.  von  A.  Cabeen, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

3  lbs.  flour,  24  lbs.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  qt.  of  sponge.  Rub 
the  flour,  butter,  and  sugar  together.  Then  add  the  sponge  with  as 
much  milk  as  will  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well  and  replace  it  in 
the  pan  to  rise.     This  must  be  done  in  the  afternoon. 

Next  morning  knead  lightly,  make  it  into  small  cakes  about  the 
size  of  a  silver  dollar,  and  j/2  inch  in  thickness.  Place  them  on  slightly 
buttered  tins,  one  inch  apart  each  way,  set  them  in  a  warm  elevated 
place  to  rise.  When  light,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done, 
wash  them  over  with  a  little  water,  not  having  the  brush  too  wet,  or 
sprinkle  sugar  over  them  if  not  for  immediate  use.  Let  them  remain 
on  the  tins  to  cool. 


344  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

'     RACAHOUT. 

Edward  Robinson  —  1840. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  John  Lambert,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

y2  lb.  fine  chocolate,  J4  lb.  arrow-root,  ]/\  lb.  ground  rice,  34 
lb.  loaf  sugar.  Reduce  the  first  four  articles  to  a  powder  and  mix 
all  together.  Mix  a  dessert-spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  a  little  cold 
water  right  smooth.  Pour  it  into  a  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil  a 
few  minutes.     The  Racahout  should  be  as  thick  as  rich  chocolate. 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabeen. 

Boil  4  lbs.  of  beef  in  iy2  gallons  of  water  for  6  hours.  Let  the 
liquor  run  through  a  colander,  and  strain  it,  through  muslin  to  clear 
it.  Boil  in  2  qts.  of  water  for  the  same  time,  4  large  carrots,  2  turnips, 
1  head  of  celery,  4  onions,  1  bunch  of  pot-herbs.  When  it  begins  to 
boil  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Then  add  the 
vegetables  to  the  soup.  The  carrots  are  cut  in  long  thin  pieces.  The 
pot-herbs  and  celery  tops  are  tied  together  and  removed  from  the 
soup  before  serving  up.  The  rest  of  the  vegetables  are  prepared  in 
the  usual  manner. 

TEA  PUNCH. 

Mrs.  John  Swan  of  Baltimore,  Md. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Anthony  M.  Hancc,  Sally  Robinson  Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

1  qt.  of  strong  green  tea.  1  qt.  bottle  of  Jamaica  rum,  3  lbs.  of 
cut  loaf-sugar,  1  dozen  lemons.  Pour  the  boiling  tea  on  rinds  of 
lemons,  pared  very  thin,  and  steep  for  ten  minutes.  Put  pieces  of  the 
lemons  on  the  cut  loaf-sugar.  Pour  the  tea  and  rinds  over  the  sugar 
and  mix  together.  When  cold  put  in  the  rum.  About  ten  minutes 
before  serving,  fill  a  bowl  with  cracked  ice,  and  pour  the  tea  punch 
over  it.     Note  —  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  25  moderate  drinkers. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  345 

MARYLAND  BISCUITS. 

Mariana    Emory    Robinson,    "  Waverly-on-Chester,"    Eastern 

Shore  of  Maryland. 

Contributed    by   Sally   Robinson    Hance,  Mrs.    Anthony   M.    Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

\]/2  lbs  of  flour,  l/2  lb.  of  lard,  salt  to  taste.  Rub  the  lard  and 
flour  together,  mixing  thoroughly;  then  add  cold  water  by  degrees 
until  it  is  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  on  a  heavy  wooden  block,  with  iron 
pestle,  until  the  dough  is  full  of  blisters.  Make  out  in  little  cakes. 
Prick  with  a  silver  fork.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


POTATO  PUDDING. 

Anna    Maria    Hemsley    Emory,     "  Poplar    Grove,"     Eastern 
Shore  of  Maryland,   1780. 

Contributed  by  Sally  Robinson  Hance. 

il/2  lbs.  hot  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  1  lb.  granulated  sugar,  l/2  lb. 
butter,  5  eggs  (leaving  out  whites  of  two),  1  teacup  sherry,  1  nut- 
meg (grated).  Beat  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  sugar.  Mix 
butter  with  potatoes,  while  the  latter  are  hot,  and  gradually  add  the 
sugar  and  the  eggs;  then  the  seasoning.     Bake  in  open  paste. 

BALTIMORE  GINGER  SNAPS. 

Mrs.   De  Courcey  May  of  Baltimore. 

Contributed   by  Sally  Robinson   Hance,  Mrs.   Anthony  M.   Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

1  qt.  of  molasses,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  cupful  of  milk,  y2  lb.  of  butter,  l/2  lb  of  lard,  34  lb.  of  brown 
sugar,  1  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  dough  to  roll 
out,  and  cut  into  very  thin  cakes.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
The  pan  need  not  be  greased. 


346  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Anna  Maria  Hemsley  Emory  of  "  Poplar  Grove,"  East  Shore 

of  Maryland,   1780. 

Contributed   by   Sally  Robinson   Hance,  Mrs.   Anthony   M.   Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

\]/2  pts.  lean  beef  (finely  chopped),  1  pt  apples  (chopped  fine), 

1  pt.  clean  suet  (chopped  fine),  2  pts.  currants,  2  pts.  raisins  (seed- 
less), 1  lb.  citron  (cut  in  shreds),  1  teaspoon  allspice,,  1  teaspoonful 
mace   (powdered),  Yi  teaspoonful  cloves,   1  large  nutmeg   (grated), 

2  pts.  brandy,  2  pts.  Madiera  to  begin  with.  As  the  mince  meat 
dries,  add  more. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Mariana   Emory   Robinson,    "  Waverly-on-Chester,"    Eastern 
Shore  of  Maryland. 

Contributed   by  Sally   Robinson   Hance,  Mrs.   Anthony  M.   Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

y2  gal.  oysters  (well  drained),  ]/2  gal.  fresh  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
onion  (chopped  very  fine),  %  lb.  butter  rolled  in  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Put  the  milk  on  and  let  it  get  very 
hot,  then  put  in  the  butter  and  flour  and  let  the  milk  boil,  keep  stirring 
all  the  time,  and  then  put  in  the  oysters.  As  soon  as  they  curl  up  they 
are  done.  Add  the  salt  later  and  stir  continually  after  the  milk  gets 
hot. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs.   F.  von  A.  Cabeen. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabeen,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

3  oz.  ginger,  *4  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  yi 
lb.  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  butter,  1  qt.  molasses,  3  lbs.  flour,  rolled  and 
baked. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  347 

CHRISTMAS     PLUM  PUDDING. 

Anna  Maria  Hemsley  Emory,  "  Poplar  Grove,"  1780. 

Contributed    by   Sally   Robinson   Hance,  Mrs.    Anthony   M.    Hancc, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

2  pts  of  grated  bread,  1  pt.  of  fresh  milk,  2  pts.  of  currants,  2 
pts.  of  stoned  raisins,  y2  lb.  of  citron  (cut  fine),  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  6  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Mix  all  together.  Boil  three  hours  in  a  pudding  bag 
which  has  been  scalded  and  well  floured. 

NEW  ENGLISH  JOHNNY  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Boric  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 

These  are  delicious. 

A  cup  of  granulated  white  corn  meal,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  well  mixed  together.  Scald  with  very  boiling- 
water,  and  let  it  stand  for  one-half  hour.  Thin  the  batter  with  milk 
to  consistency  of  griddle  cake  batter  —  have  the  griddle  very  hot  — 
cook  like  griddle  cakes,  and  when  finished,  put  them  in  a  tin  and  slip 
into  a  very  hot  oven  to  puff  them. 

CREAM  CHEESE. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Borie  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 

1  pint  cream,  1  pint  milk.  Mix  together  with  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  liquid  rennet,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  until  it  is  a  thick  curd. 
Have  a  small  mould,  put  a  piece  of  Swiss  muslin  into  it,  and  into  this 
put  the  curd.  Let  it  remain  8  hours,  then  put  a  thin  piece  of  board, 
the  size  of  mould,  on  top,  with  a  lb.  weight  on  it  to  press  it  well. 
Let  this  remain  one  day,  and  then  take  cheese  out,  put  in  a  linen 
cloth.  Change  the  cloth  frequently.  In  four  days  it  will  be  ready 
to  eat. 


343  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

DROPPED  CODFISH  BALLS. 

Contributed  by  Ella  Stockton  Sylvester,  Mrs.  Fred'k  Sylvester, 

Haverford,  Pa. 

i  pt.  bowl  of  raw  codfish,  2  heaping  bowlfuls  of  pared  potatoes. 
(Let  the  potatoes  be  undersize.)  2  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Pick  the  fish  very  fine  and  measure  lightly  into 
the  bowl.  Put  the  potatoes  in  the  boiler,  the  fish  on  top  of  them, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Draw  off"  all  the 
water,  mash  the  fish  and  potatoes  together  until  fine  and  light,  then 
add  butter,  pepper  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Have  a  deep  pan  of  boiling 
fat,  dip  a  tablespoon  in  it  and  take  up  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture. 
Drop  into  the  boiling  fat  and  fry  until  brown  (about  ten  minutes). 
The  spoon  should  be  dipped  in  the  hot  fat  every  time  you  take  a 
spoonful  of  the  mixture. 

NEW  ENGLAND  GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Borie  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1 
cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  Graham  flour,  %  of  a  cup  of  wheat  flour,  salt 
to  taste,  3  teaspoon fuls  of  Royal  Baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  milk,  then  add  other 
ingredients  (well  mixed  together  and  sifted).  Beat  all  well  together 
and  bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  for  20  minutes. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabeen,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

1  qt.  of  cream  sweetened  to  your  taste,  (about  8  tablespoons  of 
sugar  to  1  qt.  of  cream).  Then  boil  4  strips  of  gelatine  in  2  common 
tea-cups  of  water  with  a  vanilla  bean.  Let  it  boil  till  reduced  to  1 
tea-cup  full,  strain  it,  and  when  lukewarm,  stir  it  quickly  into  the 
cream  and  pour  it  into  the  mould. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  349 

AN  OLD  PHILADELPHIA  FAMILY  RECEIPT  FOR 
CHEESE  CAKE. 

Entirely  From   Simple  Ingredients. 

Contributed  by  Mr.   Charles  H.   A.   Esling,  Stuttgart,  Germany. 

Two  ladles  full  of  cottage  cheese.  Mash  the  cheese  fine  with  a 
spoon,  six  eggs,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  mix  the  yolks 
in  first  and  then  the  whites,  one  pint  of  cream  or  a  little  less,  half  a 
nutmeg  or  a  little  more,  cinnamon  to  suit  taste,  but  enough  to  make 
the  mixture  rather  brown,  sugar  to  taste,  brandy,  a  good  quantity. 
Say  about  half  a  teacupful.  Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  square 
oblong  baking  pan  with  the  dough,  which  ought  to  be  quite  thin. 
Pour  the  concoction  into  the  dough  and  bake  until  brown.  Let  it 
stand  until  it  becomes  firm.     Then  cut  in  squares. 

NEW  ENGLAND  DROP  CAKES. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Boric  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 
\]/i  cups  of  rye  flour,  i  cup  of  corn  meal.  'y2  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
2  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  salt  to  taste,  i  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  iy2  cups  of  sour  milk.  Mix  all 
together,  and  drop  from  a  dessertspoon  into  deep,  boiling  lard. 
This  is  enough  for  eight  people.     These  are  delicious. 

CURRANT  SANDWICHES. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Esling.  Stuttgart,  Germany. 

A  pleasant  and  healthy  variation  of  the  meat,  jam,  egg,  or 
water-cress  sandwich,  may  be  made  with  the  assistance  of  the  nu- 
tritious currant.  Take  a  teacupful  of  currants  and  rub  them  in  a 
cloth,  then  butter  thickly  some  thin  slices  of  bread.  Cover  the  but- 
tered bread  all  over  with  currants,  sift  a  very  little  castor  sugar  over 
them,  and  make  into  sandwiches.  This  satisfying  little  novelty  is 
wonderfully  appreciated. 


35Q  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BOULLI  BEEF. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Put  the  thick  end  of  a  brisket  of  beef  into  a  kettle  and  cover  it 
over  with  water.  Let  it  boil  for  2  hours,  then  stew  it  close  by  the 
fireside  for  6  hours  or  more,  and  fill  up  the  kettle  as  the  water  falls. 
Put  in  with  the  beef  some  turnips  cut  in  little  balls,  some  carrots  and 
some  celery  cut  in  pieces.  About  an  hour  before  it  is  done  take  out 
as  much  broth  as  will  fill  your  soup  dish,  and  boil  in  it  for  one  hour, 
turnips,  carrots  and  celery,  cut  in  rounds  or  squares. 

PERFECTION  CORN  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Borie  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardniore,  Pa. 

Grate  the  corn  into  a  pudding  dish,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  dessertspoonful  of  sugar.  Mix  well  and  put  small  lumps  of 
butter  on  the  top.  Bake  in  oven  about  £4  of  an  hour  until  well 
browned.     If  corn  is  very  old,  add  cream  to  it.     This  is  delicious. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Laura  Hazard  Robinson,  1826. 

Contributed  by  William  Attmore  Robinson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Scald  a  sufficient  quantity  of  corn  meal,  add  a  little  salt,  then 
mix  with  milk  until  it  is  of  such  a  consistency  that  it  may  be  put 
on  a  board  as  a  flat  cake,  then  cover  with  a  little  thick  cream  so  that 
it  will  not  burn,  and  bake  before  an  open  fire. 

SALLY  MORGAN'S  GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

4  lbs.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  qt.  of  molasses, 
Y\  lb.  ginger,  spice,  if  agreeable. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  35* 

EVE'S  PUDDING. 

"  Aunt  Mary." 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

If  you  want  a  good  pudding,  mind  what  you  are  taught, 

Take  of  eggs  six  in  number  when  bought  for  a  groat, 

The  fruit  with  which  Eve  her  husband  did  cozen, 

Well  pared  and  well  chopped,  at  least  half  a  dozen, 

Six  ounces  of  bread,  let  Moll  eat  the  crust, 

And  crumble  the  rest,  as  fine  as  the  dust, 

Six  ounces  of  currants  from  the  stems  you  must  sort, 

Lest  you  break  out  your  teeth  and  spoil  all  the  sport, 

Six  ounces  of  sugar  won't  make  it  too  sweet, 

Some  salt  and  some  nutmeg  will  make  it  complete, 

Three  hours  let  it  boil,  without  any  flutter, 

But  Adam  won't  like  it  without  wine  and  butter. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabeen. 

8  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  four,  the  weight  of  8  eggs  in 
sugar,  of  6  in  Indian  meal,  i  nutmeg,  l/2  lb.  of  butter  melted  and 
poured  in  without  the  sediment. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE. 

Contributed    by   Mary   B.    Snowden   Samuel,    Mrs.    Frank   Samuel, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Empty  carefully  as  many  oranges  as  there  are  persons  to  be 
served,  being  careful  not  to  scrape  the  skin  at  all  thin.  Make  a  white 
souffle.  Whites  of  5  eggs,  yolk  of  one.  Beat  separately,  making 
the  whites  very  sweet  by  stirring  in  pulverized  sugar.  Flavor  with 
the  orange  juice,  beating  it  in  with  the  yolk.  Mix  lightly,  fill  the 
skins  overflowing  with  this,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.     This  is  a  very  pretty  dessert  for  luncheon. 


352  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

MY  OWN  FROZEN  PUDDING,  AND,  A  GOOD  ONE. 
Contributed  by  Mary  B.  Snowden  Samuel,  Mrs.  Frank  Samuel, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Make  a  very  rich  chocolate  ice  cream,  first  scalding  the  cream 
an  hour  before  you  are  going  to  use  it.  When  ice  cream  is  made 
have  ready  I  lb.  of  French  candied  fruit  chopped  small  for  each  qt. 
of  cream.  Gages,  cherries,  citron,  and  Sultana  raisins.  Mix  these 
thoroughly  in  the  ice  cream.  Put  in  a  mold,  and  pack  in  the  freezer. 
Do  not  let  it  remain  too  long  as  the  fruit  will  become  frozen  too  stiff. 
Serve  this  with  a  light  sauce  flavored  either  with  brandy  or  rum. 
Sherry  will  not  do. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 
Receipt  of  More  Than  80  Years  Ago,  from  Laura  Hazard  Robinson, 

and  Contributed  by  Mr.  William  Attmore  Robinson,  Phila. 

i}i  lbs.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  sugar,  1  lb.  of  flour,  13  eggs,  3  lbs. 
of  raisins,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  citron,  1  wineglass  of  wine, 
2  wineglasses  of  brandy,  1  grated  nutmeg,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoonful  of  mace  and  cloves  mixed,  1  cup  of  molasses. 

ICING  FOR  FRUIT  CAKE. 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes. 
1   cup  of  sugar  scalded  with  boiling  water  and  flavored  with 
vanilla.     This  is  very  good. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Anna  Maria  Hemsley  Emory. 
"  Poplar  Grove,"  1780. 
Contributed  by  Sally  Robinson  Hance,  Mrs.  Anthony  M.  Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 
4  eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites,  1  pt.  of  stewed  apples,  y2  lb. 
of  butter,  teacup  and  a  half  of  grated  bread,  the  grated  rind  of  two 
lemons  and   pieces  of  one.     Sugar  to  taste.     Bake   in  paste.     Use 
the  whites  as  a  meringue. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  353 


CHOCOLATE  WAFERS. 


Contributed  by  Ella  Stockton  Sylvester,  Airs.  Frcd'k  Sylvester, 

Haver  ford,  Pa. 

The  whites  of  6  eggs,  y2  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  34  lb.  pul- 
verized sugar,  y  lb.  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  very 
light,  then  slowly  add  the  grated  chocolate  and  lastly  stir  in  the  sifted 
flour.  Drop  in  tiny  spoonfuls  on  the  buttered  pan,  (not  close  to- 
gether, as  they  spread)  and  bake  slowly  in  a  very  moderate  oven, 
so  they  will  dry,  not  brown. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuliu,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  melted,  i  large  tablespoonful  of  sifted 
flour,  i  cup  melted  cheese,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  light,  i  cup  of 
milk,  i  saltspoonful  of  salt,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  light.  First 
melt  the  butter,  then  sift  or  smooth  in  the  flour,  then  add  the  milk, 
then  the  seasoning.  Cook  that  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  cheese 
and  yolks  of  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time.  Set  this  away  to  cool,  then 
add  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  stir  well.  Now  put  in  a  baking  dish, 
in  not  too  quick  an  oven.     When  finished,  it  must  not  stand  a  minute. 

MENUDO. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Tripe,  after  being  cleaned  must  be  boiled  in  water  with  salt  in 
it.  When  the  water  boils,  it  must  be  poured  off  and  fresh  water 
with  salt,  a  bunch  of  mint,  a  piece  of  onion,  ham  and  chorizo  (a 
species  of  sausage)  put  into  the  pot.  The  ham  and  chorizo  must  be 
taken  out  as  soon  as  they  are  half  boiled,  some  tomatoes  must  be 
fried  with  lard  and  then  thrown  into  the  pot  together  with  the  ham 
and  chorizo,  red  pepper,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  garlic  are  then  to  be 
added  to  season  it.  The  tripe  ought  to  be  boiled  before  the  other 
ingredients  are  put  in. 


354  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Borie  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Mauran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 

3  cups  of  rye  flour,  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  }4  cups  of  wheat  flour, 
1  cup  of  Porto  Rican  molasses,  if/2  pints  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, put  in  a  very  tight  mold,  and  boil  4  hours  —  serve  hot.  This 
is  very  good. 

CORN   SLAPS. 

Mariana  Emory  Robinson,   "  Waverly-on-Chester,"  E.   Shore 

of  Maryland. 

Contributed    by   Sally   Robinson   Hance,  Mrs.    Anthony   M.   Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

1  pt.  of  white  southern  corn  meal,  2  eggs,  beaten  very  light, 
scald  the  meal  into  a  stiff  dough,  add  the  eggs,  thin  with  fresh  milk 
until  very  thin.     1  tablespoon  of  flour  prevents  it  from  sticking. 

GRAHAM  GEM. 

Contributed  by  Miss  Anne  H.  Wharton,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

9  tablespoonfuls  Graham  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  Royal  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  salt.  Stir  in  enough 
water  to  make  the  mixture  a  proper  consistency  to  drop  into  tins. 
Beat  hard  and  drop  into  well-heated  tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Crisp  and  delicious. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Contributed  by  Sarah  Biddle  Cabeen,  Philadelphia. 

1  doz.  eggs  —  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar  and  half  of  the 
weight  in  flour,  1  lemon,  the  rind  grated  and  juice.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  whites,  lightly  beaten  and 
stir  in  the  flour.     Then  bake  at  once. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  355 

CAVITCHED  FISH. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

To  1  dozen  large  perch,  cleaned  and  wiped  very  dry,  seasoned 
well  with  cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  fried  in  sweet 
oil  to  a  light  brown  color,  add  a  few  onions  sliced  and  fried  brown. 
.When  the  fish  are  perfectly  cold,  put  them  in  a  deep  vessel  and  strew 
the  onions  over  them.  Take  1  qt.  of  good  vinegar,  2  qts.  of  the 
liquor  of  the  'boiled  fish,  mace,  cloves,  whole  black  pepper,  a  clove 
of  garlic,  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  teacup  of  mixed  mustard,  the  same 
quantity  of  catsup  and  of  sweet  oil,  and  as  much  salt  as  will  make 
the  mixture  palatable.  Boil  the  who1*  till  it  tastes  of  the  spices,  and 
pour  it  on  the  fish,  either  hot  or  cold,  taking  care  to  have  the  fish 
covered.  Taste  the  liquor  after  the  fish  have  been  in  it  a  day  or  two, 
as  it  may  probably  require  additional  seasoning. 

BELL  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.  Besonet. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Take  1  qt.  of  new  milk  and  boil  it  with  a  little  salt,  stir  in  the 
flour  till  it  is  quite  thick  and  will  take  no  more.  Then  let  it  stand 
till  it  is  cool,  then  break  in  8  eggs,  put  some  lard  into  a  pot,  let  it 
boil,  and  then  take  a  tablespoonful  of  the  batter  and  drop  in,  let  it 
stay  until  it  puffs  out. 

DELICIOUS  POTATO  BISCUIT. 
Miss  Darlington. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

1  qt.  mashed  potatoes,  1  qt.  milk,  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  lard, 
l/i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  yeast 
cake.  For  use  at  night,  set  at  10  A.  M.,  remix  at  3  P.  M.,  roll  out 
in  pan,  let  rise  and  bake  20  minutes  just  before  serving. 


356  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

BRIOCHE. 

Sent  by    Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Cornelia  E.  Paulmier  Scott, 

Mrs.   Wm.  Carpenter  Scott,  "  Dipple,"  Ardmore,  Pa. 

i  cup  of  compressed  yeast,  34  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  i  qt.  of 

flour,   34   lb.  of  butter,  7  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of. 

sugar.     Dissolve   the   yeast  cake   in   34    CUP  °f   warm   water.     Acid 

enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  ball  of  paste  well  mixed.     Drop  this  ball 

in  a  pan  of  warm  water,   not  hot.     Cover  and   set  in   warm  place 

about   1   hour  to  rise.     Put  the  rest  of  flour  in  bowl,  make  a  well 

in  center,  into  this  put  butter,  salt,  sugar,  and  4  eggs. 

Work  them  well  together  with  hand,  gradually  using  flour  and 
adding  2  more  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Work  well  together  till  it  loses 
all  stickiness.  When  leaven  is  light,  lift  it  out  of  water  with  a  skim- 
mer and  place  it  with  the  dough.  Work  well  together.  Add  one 
egg,  the  last.  Beat  with  hand  a  long  time,  the  longer  the  better,  for 
it  makes  it  firmer.  Put  the  paste  in  bowl.  Let  it  rise  four  or  five 
hours.  Beat  down  again  and  put  it  on  ice  for  12  or  24  hours. 
Handle  quickly  when  taken  from  ice. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT. 
Contributed  by  Sally  M.  Robinson  Hance,  Mrs.  Anthony  M.  Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 
1*4  lbs.  of  the  best  flour,  4  oz.  of  lard,  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  with  cold  water  just  as  stiff  as  possible.  Put  the  dough  on  a 
board  and  knead  until  it  is  perfectly  pliable  and-  makes  a  popping 
sound  under  your  hands  from  the  air  bubbles  breaking  in  it,  and  until 
you  can  pull  it  down  in  long  thin  strips.  These  tests  are  infallible, 
but  the  dough  has  to  be  worked  hard  and  long.  Break  off  into  pieces 
about  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mould  them  into  round  balls,  about  Y\ 
in.  thick,  flatten  with  a  rolling  pin.  Stick  through  5  or  6  times  with 
a  fork.  The  oven  must  be  well  heated  but  not  too  hot.  Bake  ]/z 
hour. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  357 

BEAUVILLING  POTATOES. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hart  man  Knhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wash  clean  the  quantity  of  potatoes  you  require,  boil  them,  and 
when  they  are  clone,  drain  them  in  a  colander,  peel  them,  cut  them 
in  small  round  pieces,  or  thin  slices ;  put  into  a  stewpan  some  butter, 
parsley  chopped  up,  salt  and  whole  pepper.  Add  to  that  the  po- 
tatoes. Place  the  stewpan  upon  a  fire,  stir  them  up  as  the  butter 
melts,  and  in  case  it  is  required,  add  a  little  bouillon  or  water.  On 
dishing  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  dash  of  verjuice. 

CRAB   SOUP. 

Contributed  by  Sally  M.  Robinson  Hance,  Mrs.  Anthony  M.  Hance, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

i  dozen  good  sized  crabs,  i  qt.  of  new  milk,  i  pt.  of  pure  cream, 
l/l  lb.  of  best  butter,  y>  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onions,  salt  and 
paprika  to  taste.  Put  milk  and  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Rub  butter  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  add 
to  it  also  the  chopped  onions.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  crab 
meat  and  pepper  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Add  salt  first  before 
taking  off  the  fire. 

BISCUIT. 

Sent  by  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Cornelia  E.  Paulmier  Scott,  Mrs.  Win.  Carpenter  Scott. 
"  Dipple,"  Ardmore,  Pa. 
Make  a  syrup  of  i  cup  of  sugar,  34  cup  of  water.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  Y\  cllP  oi  syrup,  and  ]/2  cup  of  cream.  Place  the 
mixture  on  fire.  Stir  till  it  coats  spoon.  Place  it  on  ice  and  beat 
till  it  is  stiff  and  light.  Flavor  with  vanilla  bean  or  Maraschino, 
when  taken  from  off  fire.  Fold  in  lightly  a  pt.  of  whipped  cream. 
Put  the  mixture  in  a  mold  and  freeze.  •  It  is  improved  by  using  some 
praline  powder. 


358  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

Sent  by  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Cornelia  E.  Panlmier  Scott,  Mrs.  Wm.  Carpenter  Scott, 
"  Dipple,"  Ardmore,  Pa. 

i  qt.  of  milk,  5  eggs,  1  small  teaspoon  of  sugar  to  each  egg. 
Put  a  cupful  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water.  Let  it  cook 
until  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  and  is  very  thick.  Cover  mould  with 
this  and  let  it  harden,  keeping  out  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  to  flavor 
the  custard.  Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  a  spoonful  of  vanilla  together,  add 
milk,  all  but  about  y2  a  cupful,  to  which  add  the  caramel  for  flavor- 
ing. Put  this  milk  with  caramel  in  saucepan.  Boil  it  to  give  it  a 
flavor,  add  eggs,  milk,  etc.  Put  all  in  the  mould  and  bake  in  a  pan 
of  water.  To  tell  when  sufficiently  cooked  put  a  knife  in,  and  when 
the  custard  does  not  adhere,  it  is  cooked.  5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
makes  it  quite  sweet,  so  the  cook  should  judge  partly  how  much  to 
use. 

FRUIT  CAKE  FROM  NANTUCKET. 

Contributed  by  Emily  Boric  Rhodes,  Mrs.  James  Manran  Rhodes, 

Ardmore,  Pa. 

1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  flour,  *4  lb.  citron,  il/2  lbs.  butter, 
1  lb.  raisins,  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  milk,  spices  to  taste. 

GERMAN  SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  POTATO  SALAD  OR 

COLD  SLAW. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  x/2  tea- 
spoonful  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
cream,  or  1  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  flour,  a  good  shake  of  red 
pepper.  Put  vinegar  and  butter  together,  and  heat.  Then  add  other 
ingredients,  stir  until  thick  and  let  cool. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  359 

INDIAN  CURRY. 

These  receipts  were  brought  from  India  over  fifty  years  ago  by 
the  Rev.  John  Primate  Maud. 

Contributed  by  Louise  Catherwood  Maud,  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Maud, 
Monterey,  California. 

Melt  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  in  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  when  smooth,  add  slowly  a  cup  of 
warm  gravy.  JVIix  a  tablespoon  of  curry  powder  in  a  little  cold  milk 
or  gravy,  and  add  a  half  a  cup  of  cream.  It  should  thicken  and 
become  quite  smooth.  When  done,  season,  and  just  before  remov- 
ing from  the  fire  put  in  a  tablespoon  of  port  wine.  Curry  should 
never  stand  a  moment,  but  should  at  once  be  poured  over  the  meat 
or  fish  it  is  intended  for.  It  should  always  be  accompanied  by  boiled 
rice  and  chutney. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Martha  G.  Binney  Dunning. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

i  qt.  fresh  green  peas,  shelled,  I  qt.  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
'y2  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley.  Boil  the  peas 
until  very  soft  and  mash  through  colander.  Boil  the  milk  in  double 
boiler,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  the  milk,  add  the  peas, 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  in 
cups  with  whipped  cream. 

PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Mrs.  Amos  Binney,  Boston,  Mass. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

Scald  the  peaches,  then  rub  with  a  soft  cloth  to  remove  the 
down.  For  one  peck  peaches  take  3  pts.  vinegar,  3  pts.  water,  8  lbs. 
sugar  and  allspice,  cloves  and  mace  to  taste.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil. 
Put  in  the  peaches  and  cook  until  tender. 


360  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 


CHUTNEY. 


Contributed  by  Louise  Catherwood  Maud,  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Maud, 

Monterey,   Calif. 

i]/2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  y^  lb.  salt,  i  tablespoonful  chopped  gar- 
lic, Y^  lb.  onions,  24  lb.  powdered  ginger,  *4  lb.  dried  chillies,  }i  lb. 
mustard  seed,  ^4  lb.  stoned  raisins,  2  bottles  best  vinegar,  30  large 
apples  (or  some  people  prefer  bananas  or  peaches.) 

Soak  the  mustard  seed  in  a  pt.  of  vinegar.  Chop  onions,  chillies, 
garlic  and  raisins.  Peel  and  slice  fruit  and  boil  with*  sugar  and  the 
rest  of  the  vinegar.  When  the  fruit  is  cold,  mix  all  together,  and 
put  into  airtight  jars  and  set  away  for  at  least  three  months. 

COOKIES. 

Sent  by,  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Cornelia  E.  Paulmier  Scott,  Mrs.  Wm.  Carpenter  Scott, 
"  Dipple"  Ardmore,  Pa. 

1  scant  cup  of  butter,  1  heaping  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  beaten 
yolks  and  whites  together,  1  tablespoon  of  water.  Flour  just  enough 
to  make  a  dough  —  not  too  stiff.  Roll  out  thin,  then  cut  out.  Blanch 
almonds  and  stick  four  halves  on  the  top  of  each  cake,  sprinkle  with 
cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  bake.  Sometimes  put  in  caraway  seeds, 
rather  than  the  almonds  and  cinnamon. 

NELLIE'S  FAVORITE  CAKES. 

Small  Cakes  and  also  for  Strawberry  Layer  Cake. 

Sent  by  Mrs.  Robert  W.  Stuart,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

Contributed  by  Cornelia  E.  Paulmier  Scott,  Mrs.  Wm.  Carpenter  Scott, 
"  Dipple,"  Ardmore,  Pa. 

'Yi  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  very  scant  cups 
of  flour,  2  even  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  l/2  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs 
beaten  separately,  grated  rind  of  a  piece  of  lemon. 


RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS  361 

TWO  OLD  SPANISH  RECEIPTS  FROM  MONTEREY, 
CALIFORNIA. 

ENCHILADAS. 

Contributed  by  Louise  Cathenvood  Maud,  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Maud, 

Monterey,   Calif. 

Make  a  chili  sauce  of  a  can  of  good  tomatoes,  four  red  peppers, 
1  onion,  1  small  edge  of  garlic  chopped  fine,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  a 
little  chili  sauce,  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar.  Cook  until  all  mixed. 
Then  add  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a  dozen  stoned  olives 
and  half  a  cup  of  scalded  raisins.  Make  a  batter  as  for  French  pan- 
cakes, 4  ounces  sifted  flour,  1  Qgg,  2]/2  gills  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Have  a  large  frying  pan  very  hot,  grease  it  well,  and  then 
pour  in  enough  batter  to  just  cover  the  bottom. 

In  about  a  minute  the  cake  may  be  turned,  but  this  really  requires 
skill.  The  Spanish  women  can  give  the  pan  a  turn  and  a  flip,  and 
the  cake  is  over.  When  the  pancakes  are  done  fill  them  with  the 
sauce,  and  roll  them  up,  and  pour  sauce  over  them. 

CHICKEN  TAMALES. 

Contributed  by  Louise  Cathenvood  Maud,  Mrs.   Charles  E.  Maud, 

Monterey,   Calif. 

Make  same  sauce  as  for  enchiladas.  Boil  any  left  over  old  barn- 
yard rover,  and  cut  the  meat  up  fine,  and  stir  into  the  sauce  with  eggs, 
olives  and  raisins.  Have  some  boiling  corn  meal  mush,  and  at  the 
same  time  have  some  corn  husks  soaking  in  warm  water.  Spread 
a  corn  husk  out,  lay  on  it  a  thin  cover  of  the  mush,  then  a  layer  of 
the  sauce,  etc.,  then  another  layer  of  the  mush.  Then  put  a  corn  husk 
on  the  top  and  one  on  each  side  if  necessary,  and  tie  the  end  securely 
and  put  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water  to  keep  very  hot. 

These,  also,  may  be  made  in  advance  and  warmed  over. 


362  RARE  OLD  RECEIPTS 

OLD  FASHIONED  MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Contributed  by  Mr.  C.  Hartman  Kuhn,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

i  pt.  of  molasses,  a  large  teacup  of  sugar,  i  ounce  of  ginger,  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  lime  juice,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  half  a  grated 
cocoanut,  and  a  little  orange  peel.  Boil  it  slowly  one  and  a  half 
hours. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.  Bradford  Norman,  Newport,  R.  I. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  George  A.  Dunning,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

2  cups  Rhode  Island  corn  meal,  1  cup  rye  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  molasses,  5  cups 
of  milk.     Pour  into  large  covered  tin  and  let  steam  all  night. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Mrs.    Margaret   Errickson   Chambers,    1840. 

Contributed  by  Mrs.  Katharine  Errickson  Hinckle,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Wash  four  half  pecks  of  ripe  tomatoes,  place  them  in  a  pan,  scald 
and  skin  them,  then  cook  the  tomatoes  until  they  are  soft,  strain 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve  and  add  1^2  pints  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful 
Cayenne  pepper,  l/2  tablespoonful  black  pepper,  ^  of  a  pint  of  salt, 
3  heads  of  garlic  cut  in  small  pieces,  3  tablespoonfuls  whole  allspice,  3 
tablespoonfuls  whole  cloves.  Tie  each  of  the  spices  in  a  separate 
cheesecloth  bag,  boil  for  three  hours,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
scorching,  when  done,  remove  the  spice  bags,  bottle  the  catsup,  cork 
tightly,  sealing  the  bottles  with  wax. 


INDEX 


363 


INDEX 


Additional  Rare  Old  Receipts 333 

BREADS. 
Batter    Cakes 39 

Mrs.  A.  IV.  Garber. 
Beaten    Biscuit 47 

Mrs.  John  Stephenson. 
Beaten  Biscuit 50 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
Boston  Brown  38 

Mrs.  Henry  Winsor. 
Brandon    Puffs 43 

Miss  Caroline  Sinkler. 
Bread    42 

Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott. 
Bread    Cake 40 

Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 
Bread    Muffins 48 

Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith. 
Brown  Bread  42 

Mrs.   J.   Bertram   Lippincott. 
Brown  Bread  46 

Mrs.  Grover  Cleveland. 


Clermont  Muffins 

Mrs.  Robert  K.  Livingstone^ 
Corn  Bread 

Mrs.  Mary  Balding. 
Corn  Bread 

St.  Charles  Hotel,  New  Orleans. 
Corn  Bread 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Corn    Bread 

Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham. 
Corn    Muffins 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Garber. 
Cream    Biscuit 

Mrs.  Richard  L.  Ashnrst. 


41 
4i 
48 
49 

53 
39 
37 


Delicious   Corn   Muffins 45 

Providence,  R.  I. 
Drop    Biscuits 50 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 
Drop    Corn    Cakes 47 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Dutch     Toast 53 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

Famous  Virginia  Yeast  Rolls 44 

Mrs.  Eugene  S.  Herndon. 

Flannel    Cakes 39 

Mrs.  A.   IV.  Garber. 

Flannel     Cakes 49 

Mrs.   Dabney  H.   Maury, 

German    Waffles 42 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Graham    Gems 46 

Mrs.  J.  Frailey  Smith. 
Graham    Rolls 4S 

Indian  and  Flour  Biscuits 53 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 
Indian  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 43 

Mrs.  Charles  Brinton  Coxe. 
Indian  Sponge  Breakfast  Cakes....     44 

Providence,  R.  I. 

Kentucky  Salt  Rising  Bread 51 

Houston  Eldredge. 

Lapland    Cakes 52 

Mrs.   Charles   Mason. 
Laplanders    48 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 


36; 


366  FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 

Madison    Biscuit 37      Sally   Lunn    46 

Mrs.  John  Murdoch.  Mrs.  Julia  Breckenridge. 

Maize  Bread 48      Sally    Lunn 49 

Janice  Meredith's.  Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham. 

Maryland    Biscuit 45      Sally    Lunn 52 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

Muff  Bread 46     Sally  Lunn 38 

Mrs.  Paul  C.  Lea.  Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Mawy. 

Muffins    . 39     Souffle  Biscuit 50 

Mrs.  Daniel  Harrison.  Sponge   for   Bread 45 

Muffins  40  Mrs.  R.  H.  Maury's  Cook. 

Mrs.  A.   W.  Garber.  Sweet    Rolls 51 

Muffins  45  Mrs.    Oliver  Hastings. 

Mrs.  Elisabeth  Cooper  Harrison. 

Muffins    52      Thin    Biscuit 39 

Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith.  Thin  Biscuit %.     40 

Mush   Cakes 41  Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 

Miss  Mollie  Ward.  Thin  Corn   Cakes 54 

Philadelphia. 

Potato    Pone 42 

Miss  Caroline  Sinkler.  Virginia  Sour  Milk  Batter  Bread..     51 

Pop  Overs 44  Houston  Eldredge. 

Mrs.   Elizabeth   Cooper  Harrison.  Vir^nia    Batt^    Cakes 52 

Pop    Overs 47  Mrs-  Tames  T-  Halsey- 

Mrs.   Gouverneur  Ogden.  W  ffl  9 

„    .  ,     „7  m  Miss    Logan. 

Quick    Waffles 47      w  ~, 

, ,  ■     r  ,      , ,     ,  Waffles     41 

Mrs.  John  Moulton.  ,,        r         .    „  „ 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson. 

Rice    Waffles 43      Yeast  — to  Make  Good 49 

Mrs.   Charles  B.  Maury.  Mrs_  Roy  Mason_ 

Rice  Waffles 47      Yorkshire  Bread  37 

Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham.  Mrs.  Wm.  Govane  Howard. 

Rice  or  Hominy  Bread 53 

Miss  Caroline  Sinkler. 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread 50  EGGS. 

Mrs.  Jacob  Batcheller  (1770). 

Rye   Bread 41      A  Large  Omelet 57 

Mrs.  J.  Bertram  Lippincott.  Mrs.  Burd  (1810). 

0  „     T  Cheese  and  Eggs 58 

Sally  Lunn 40  ,,  ±    ~ 

,,       _    „    „„  Margaret   Cameron. 

Mrs.  T.  B.  Sims. 

Sally    Lunn 43      Eggs    Divorcon 58 

Mrs.   W.  Hinckle  Smith.  Mrs.  James  Anders. 


INDEX  367 

Fricasseed  Eggs  and  Onions 57      Crab   Soup 67 

Mrs.  IV.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr.  Mrs.   Lewis  Minor. 

Cream   of   Mushrooms 76 

Scrambled    Eggs 57  Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 

Mr.  Francis  Rawle.  Crecy    Soup 71 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

SOUPS. 

Mock  Turtle   Soup 68 

Bean  Soup  (Black) 61  General  Dabncy  H.  Maury. 

Mrs.  Charles  A.  Far  num.  Mock  Turtle  Soup   (Mammy  Lack- 
Bean  Soup   (Black) 53         ey's)    75 

Harvey's  Restaurant.  Wash.,  D.C.  Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith. 

Bean   Soup    (Black) 65      Mushroom   Soup 65 

Grandmother  Hannah   Burrozvs.  Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brozvn. 

Bean  Soup   (Kidney) 70 

Mrs.  George  Nervbold  Lawrence.  Ochra  Soup 61 

Beef  Soup 62  Mrs.  Etting. 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury.  Ochra    Soup 69 

Bisque    of   Clams 72  Mrs.  James  T.  Halscy. 

Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Sims.  Ochra    Gumbo 73 

Bouillon    62  Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer. 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury.  Onion   Soup 64 

Bouillon,  New  Orleans  Court 69  Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell.  Oyster    Gumbo 74 

Brunswick   Stew 62  Mrs.  Lawton, 

Mrs.  Junius  B.  Mosby. 

Palestine    Soup 71 

Calf's  Head  Soup 66  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum. 

Mrs.   Frank   A.   Brastow.  Parker   House   Soup 63 

Calves'  Head   Soup 70  Miss  Rice. 

Mrs.  Julia  Breckenridgc.  Pepper    Pot 68 

Calf's  Head  Soup 74  Mrs.  Rachel  Walker  Cresson. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Prathcr.  Pepper  Pot    (Ellen  Gallagher) 71 

Chestnut    Soup    Clear 73  Mrs.   Wm.  H.  Horstman. 

Lord  Raglan,  Raglan  Castle,  Eng.  Pepper   Pot   (Philadelphia  Famous)     72 

Chicken   Soup 67  The  Old  Higgcnbottom  Family. 

Chicken    Soup 70 

Mrs.  Francis  Brooke.  -        Rjch   Brown   Soup 66 

Clam    Soup 66  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Farnum. 

General  Burnsides. 
Clam    Soup 67      Turtle   Soup 63 

Mrs.  John  Markoe.  Miss  Charlotte   Mitchell. 

Crab    Soup 64      Turtle   Soup 65 

Miss   Charlotte   Mitchell.  Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell. 


36S 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


White  Dahl  Soup  (Sarah  Davis)...     64 
Mrs.  W.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 


FISH. 

Boston  Fish  Balls 84 

Mrs.  Charles  P.  Searle. 

Brown  Sauce   (To  dress  fish) 89 

George   W.  Anderson. 

Clams    (Deviled) 89 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Cod  Fish  Balls 86 

Mrs.  Gilbert  (1800). 
Cod  Fish  Balls  (Dropped) 348 

Mrs.  Frederick  Sylvester. 

Cod    Fish    (Tossed-up) 84 

Crab  Ravigote 83 

Mrs.  Joseph  Neff. 
Crab  Ravigote 86 

Chef  of  the  Famous  Old  Bellevue. 
Crabs  (Soft  Shell  Sauted) 89 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell. 
Crabs    (Stuffed) 82 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Fish  a  la  Creme 89 

Mrs.  Allen  Maury. 
Fish    (Chowder) 88 

Mrs.  Neil  Robinson. 
Fish   (Fried  in  Flour  Batter) 88 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Fish    (How  to  Fry) 83 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Fish  in  Mould   (Norwegian) 85 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Minis. 
Fish   Pie 80 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett. 
Fish    (Planked) 80 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Kedgeree    88 

Miss  K.  Wilcox. 


Lobster   (Creamed) 90 

Mrs.  General  Wm.  B.  Franklin. 

Lobster  and  Crab   (Farcee) 82 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Lobster   Cutlets S5 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

Sabot  a  la  Creme  au  Gratin 85 

Mrs.  Bradley  T.  Johnson. 
Salmon    Pudding 83 

Philadelphia. 
Shad  Roe  Croquettes 90 

Miss  Schenck. 
Shrimp    Pillau 82 

Mrs.  Huger. 

Terrapin,  "Aunt"  Mary  Sharp's...     79 

Mrs.  Robert  C.  Wright. 
Terrapin  Brown  Stew 79 

Mr.  Joe  McAllister. 
Terrapin  Stew,  Mrs.  Habersham's..     81 

Mrs.  Frank  B.  Screven. 
Terrapin,  Maryland  Style 81 

Mrs.  Leila  Andrews  Smith. 
Terrapin    84 

Mrs.  Goodfellow. 
Terrapin    86 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Terrapins    87 

Mrs.  John  Markoe. 
Terrapin,  White   Stew 87 

Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison. 
Turbot  a  la  Creme 87 

Philadelphia. 


OYSTERS. 

Oysters,  a  la  Bellevue 97 

Mrs.   Charles  Heath  Bannard. 

Oyster   Bellevue-Stratford 97 

Baptiste,  Head  Waiter. 

Oysters  Bellevue 98 

Philadelphia. 


INDEX 


369 


Oysters  Celeried 96 

Miss  Flora  Hartley. 
Oyster  Cocktails 94 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Oyster  Croquettes 97 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Oyster  -Gumbo 93 

Mrs.  Lewis  Minor. 
Oyster  Jambalaya 96 

Miss  Lucretia  Lennig. 

Oysters  and   Macaroni 94 

Oysters    ( Panned) 95 

Mrs.  Morris  Hacker. 
Oyster   Patties 93 

Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Sims. 
Oysters    (Pickled) 94 

Mrs.  Richard  William. 
Oysters    (Pickled) 95 

Philadelphia. 
Oysters    ( Pickled) 96 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey. 
Oysters    (Pickled) 98 

Mrs.  George  IV.  Anderson. 
Oysters    (Scalloped) 96 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 
Oyster    Soup 95 

Mrs  Lewis  Minor. 

ENTREES.     " 

Beefsteak   with    Bananas 101 

Mrs.  James  W.  Noyes. 
Bechamel  Sauce 102 

Chicken    Croquettes 102 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Chicken,    Potted 101 

Mrs.  Wm.  I^ogan  Fisher. 
Chicken,    Timbales 103 

Lord  Raglan,  Raglan  Castle,  Eng. 
Chicken  or  Veal,  Jellied 102 

Mrs.   Julia   Brcckenridge. 
Custard    Souffle 101 

Miss  Flora  Hartley. 


Quenelles  with   Spinach 103 

Mrs.   Joseph  Coleman   Bright. 

Sweet  Breads  with  Tomatoes 102 

Mrs.  Annie  S.  Hammond. 

Sweet  Peppers,  Fried 103 

Mrs.  Alice  Cabell  Palmer. 

CROQUETTES. 

Chicken    Croquettes 107 

Mrs.   James  B.  Mceks. 
Chicken    Croquettes 107 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 
Oyster  Croquettes 97 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Rice   Croquettes 108 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 

FOWL. 

Coquilles  de  Volaille 118 

Mrs.   Clara  Pollard  Lee. 
Chicken  Fricassee  (Creole) 112 

Mrs.   Celestin   Villeneuve. 
Chicken    Fricassee    (Yellow) 113 

Mrs.  Celestin   Villeneuve. 
Chicken   Fricassee    (White) 114 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader. 
Chicken  Fried    (Virginia) 117 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Chicken  Pates 112 

Mrs.  S:  B.  Dana. 
Chicken    Pie 113 

Mrs.  H.   C.   Cunningham. 
Chicken,  Pressed    (Grandmother's)     114 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
Chickens    (Young),    Roasted 113 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Chicken   Terrapin 112 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Chicken  Terrapin 116 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows. 
Chicken   Terrapin 117 

Philadelphia. 


37° 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


Chicken,  a  la  Sanford  White.  .- i n 

Airs.  James  M.  Anders. 
Chicken  Saute  (Bellevue) 116 

Chef   Bellevue-Stratford. 
Chicken  Smothered  in  Mushrooms.  .   in 

Mr.  Herbert  L.  Clark. 
Chicken,    Smothered 116 

Mrs.  Morris  Hacket. 
Chicken  Souffle 117 

Miss    Schenck. 
Chicken    Timbales 118 

Miss   Lucretia   Lennig. 

Indian    Pilau 115 

Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring. 

Turkey,    Boned 119 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 
Turkey,  Roasted 115 

Shirley,   Virginia. 

GAME. 

Ducks    (How  to  Dress) 125 

Mrs.   Gulielma  Harrison. 
Ducks,  Dressed  with  Onions 125 

Mrs.  James  T.   Halsey. 
Ducks,   Wild    (Roasted) 125 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Duck,  Wild    (Stewed) 126 

Airs.  Lewis  W.  Minor. 

"A  Frickasie  "    (Colonial) 123 

Mrs.  John  Burroughs. 

Partridge,     or     Any     Small     Birds 
(Roasted)    124 

Airs.  Roy  Mason. 
Pigeons   123 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 
Pigeons   (Roasted) '. 124 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Pigeons    (Potted) 126 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Rabbit    (Fricasseed) 123 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 

Squirrels,  Brunswick  Stew 124 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 

Turkey,  Wild,  a.  la  Hanna .' . .   126 

Mrs.  James  M.  Anders. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  Breaded,  Broiled 134 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 
Beef,    Sarony 132 

Mrs.  Stephen  Brock. 

Calf's   Head,  as   Terrapin 133 

Mrs.  Richard  Gilpin. 
Chilicon  Carne 129 

Mrs.   Francis  B.   Loring. 

Grillades    (Creole) 136 

Miss  Gottschalk. 

Hams,    Christmas 133 

Mrs.  George  W.  Anderson. 
Hams,  Cured   (Bristol  Method)....   131 
Hams  or  Beef  (Cured) 135 

Mrs.  Shippen   (1814). 
Ham,    Roast 138 

Mr.  Wellford  Mason. 

Hams,   Westphalia 132 

Hash,  Corned  Beef 135 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 

Kidney  and  Madeira  Sauce 137 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson. 

Liver  Dumplings. 131 

Sophie  Fisher. 
Liver  and  Kidney  Stew 135 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Liver  Terrapin 134 

Mrs.  Charles  Duggin. 


INDEX 


371 


Liver  Wurst 132      Cauliflower   Sauce 147 


Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 

Olio  — How  to   Make    (1831) 137 

Miss  Meta  Lisle. 


Pate  de  Veau 136 

Miss  M.  M.  Halsey. 
Piccadello    134 

Mrs.  Bradley  F.  Johnson. 
Pig,  Roast 129 

Mrs.  ll'm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 
Pudding.   Santa    Cruz 136      Fjs]l   Cream   Sauce . 143 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Clark.                                            Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Pudding,  Yorkshire.  .  138     p-jsh    Sauce 144 


Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 
Celery    Sauce 143 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwaladei 
(1800). 
Cole  Slaw 145 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Cream  Gravy  for  Chicken 142 

Mary   Robertson   Hawkins. 
Cucumber  Catsup 145 

Mrs.  Dabncy  H.  Maury. 


Mr.   Wellford  Mason. 

Sausage    Surprises 130 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Sausages 136 

Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison. 

Sausages    (How  to  Make) 137 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 

Tongue   (Fresh) 133 

Miss  Schcnck. 
Tongue    (Jellied) 131 

Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Veal    Birds 130 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 
Veal  Loaf 130 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett. 

SAUCES     FOR     ENTREES,     FISH, 
FOWL,   MEATS   AND   SALADS. 


Mrs.   Richmond  Pearson. 

French  Dressing 146 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 

Grillades  a  la  Creole 143 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell. 


Hollandaise    Sauce 

Mrs.  George  Groves. 


141 


Mayonnaise    Dressing 147 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Meats  and  Their  Respective  Sauces  141 
Mushroom  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowls.   142 

Margaret  Coleman    (1774). 
Mutton  Gravy   (Venison) 144 

Mrs.  Robert  E.  Patterson. 

Salad    Dressing 146 

Clara   Thomas. 
Sauce    Remoulade 144 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 


Asparagus    Dressing 142 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Maury. 

Tomato  Glace I45 

Bernaise    Sauce    for   Steak 146  Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson.                         Tomato,   Lettuce   and    Salad    Dress- 
Bread   Sauce  for   Birds 147         ing  146 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud.  Airs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 


372  FAMOUS 

Venison    Gravy 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Bailey. 

VEGETABLES. 

A  Breakfast  Dish 

Mrs.   Charles  Stevens. 

Asparagus    Loaf 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett. 

Baked  Beets 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
Baked    Peaches 

Mrs.   Celestin   Villeneuve. 
Baked  Sweet  Potato 

Miss  Lucretia  Lennig. 
Beans    (Boston   Baked) 

Mrs.  Charles  P.  Searle. 
Beans,    Snap    (Creole) 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer. 

Cole  Slaw 

Miss  Elizabeth  Rodman  Fisher. 
Corn  Cakes 

Mrs.  Macolm  S.  Councill. 
Corn  Fritters 

Mrs.  Mary  Balding. 
Corn  Pudding 

Mrs.  Edwin  T.  Clinton. 
Corn    Pudding 

Mrs.  Charles  P.  Searle. 
Creole    Dish 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Loring. 

Egg  Plant 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Escalloped   Onions 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 

Hominy  or  Samp   Porridge 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Hewlett. 

Macaroni    Dish    (Italian) 

Mrs.  IV.  Hinckle  Smith. 


OLD  RECEIPTS 

145      Mock  Oysters    (Corn) 159 

"  Mnshrumps  "  151 

Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith. 

Peppers,  Green   (Stuffed) 155 

160  Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer. 

Pilau    (Turkish) 156 

152  Mrs.  Lily  Latrobe  Loring. 

Polenta    (How  to  Make) 157 

Mrs.   Randolph. 

157      Potato  Pudding  (Irish) 160 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 

1^      Potato   Puffs 155 

Mrs.  Frank  Carter. 

Rice   and    Cabbage 158 

j-o  Mrs.  F.  H.  Loring. 

Rice,  How  to  Cook 156 

TF.  Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 

154 

Rice  and  Peppers 153 

Mrs.  Eugene  Palmer. 

l^2      Sweet  Potato  Pone  (1) 159 

Miss  Sarah  Rutledge. 

Sweet  Potato  Pone  (2) 159 

Miss  Sarah  Rutledge. 
154 

Tomato  with  Gelatine 154 

150  Mrs.  James  W.  Noyes. 

Tomatoes,  Ripe,  Stuffed 153 

:S8  Mrs.  Eliza  S.  Brolaski. 

156 

SALADS. 

Asparagus  Salad 164 

155 

Calves'  Head  Salad 164 

159  Mrs.  John  Poe. 

Crab  Salad,  Served  in  Tomatoes...   164 

Miss  Lucretia  Lennig. 
153 

Grape  Fruit  Salad 165 

157      Potato   Salad    (Irish) 163 

Mrs.  Norman  V.  Randolph. 


INDEX 


373 


Potato  Salad 163 

Mrs.  John  Poe 
Potato    Salad 163 

Mrs.  George  IV.  Anderson. 
Potato  Salad   (2) 164 

Mrs.  George  IV.  Anderson. 

Turkey    Salad 165 

Mrs.  Norman  V.  Randolph. 

ICE  CREAM. 

Cherry    Mousse 170 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Dana. 

Frozen    Coffee 169 

Mrs.  S.  Naudain  Duer. 
Frozen    Pudding 170 

Mrs.  Clara  Pollard  Lee. 
Frozen  Pudding  (English) 170 

Bessie  Frazer. 

Ice  Cream   (Aunt  Parsons) 169 

Miss  Pauline  Johnson. 
Ice    Cream     (To    Make    German    or 
Vanilla)    171 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader. 
Ice  Cream   (To  make  three  quarts)   171 

Mrs.  Rodney. 

Still-Frozen  Ice  Cream 169 

Mrs.  Cadwalader  Jones. 

ICES,  PUNCHES,  SHERBETS, 
BEVERAGES    AND    WINES. 

Apple   Toddy,   Virginia   Club 188 

Commander  Hugo   Osterhaus. 
Apple  Toddy,  General  Harry  Heth's  188 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Mortimer. 
Apple  Toddy,  Westmoreland  Club..   185 

Mr.  Junius  Mosby. 
Art  of  Serving  Wine 175 

Mr.  Paul  Garrett. 


Blackberry    Cordial 182 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Blackberry   Syrup 184 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
Blackberry   Wine 183 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Blackberry  Wine  (Father's) 19 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 

Cherry  Bounce 195 

Capt.   Nicholas  Mo  ran    (1770). 
Cherry   Bounce    (Wild) 194 

Mrs.  Frances  Surget   (1791). 
Cherry    Bounce 188 

Miss  M.  M.  Halsey. 
Cider  (Mulled) 196 

Mrs.  Lydia  S.  Hinchman. 
Claret  Cup,  Somerset  Club 180 

Mr.   Charles  P.  Searlc. 
Claret    Ice 182 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 
Claret  Wine,   Spiced 189 

Miss  Isabelle  Pcgram. 
Creme  de   Menthe 183 

Mrs.  Judge  L.  L.  Lcii'is. 
Currant    Wine 186 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 

Eggnog,  James   Selden 190 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Mortimer. 
Eggnog,  Old  Virginia 184 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Eggnog,  Old  Virginia 184 

Mr.   J.    C   Dailey. 
Eggnog,   Southern 191 

Houston  Eldredge. 
Eggnog,  Mrs.  Simrall's 195 

Prof.  Lindley  M.  Keasbey. 
Etiquette  of  the  Wine  Glass 178 

Mr.   Paul  Garrett. 

Koumyss    183 

Mrs.  James  Meeks, 


374 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


Mint  Julep,  John  Dabney's 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Mint  Julep,  Pendennis  Club 

Mr.  J.  A.  Had  ley. 
Mint  Julep,  Westmoreland  Club. 

Mr.  Junius  Mosby. 


179 
193 
193 


Plum  Cordial 196 

Mr.  Charles  Stevens. 
Punch 192 

Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith. 
Punch,   Baltimore  Tea 181 

Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 
Punch,  Champagne 190 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Punch,   Colonial 186 

Mary  Robertson  Hazvkins. 
Punch,   Dragoon 189 

Charleston,  S.  C. 
Punch,  Fish  House 185 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Punch,  Fish  House 196 

Mr.  Rodman  Wister. 
Punch,  Fish  House 194 

Dr.  S.  Naudain  Duer. 
Punch,  Fruit 181 

General  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Punch,    Fruit 192 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell. 
Punch,  Jonathan   Prescott  Hall's...   186 

Miss  Isabelle  Pegram. 
Punch,  Lalla  Rookh 180 

Mrs.  James  Thomas. 
Punch,    Regent's 191 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson. 
Punch  (The  Regent's) 195 

Mrs.  James  D.   Winsor. 
Punch,  Robert  E.  Lee 192 

Mr.  Coulter  Bryan  Carmichael. 
Punch,   Roman 187 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Punch,  Rum,  Virginia  Club 190 

Commander  Huso  Osterhaus. 


Punch,  Tea 187 

Mrs.  Francis   T.  Boykin. 

Raspberry    Shrub 182 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
Raspberry  Vinegar 187 

Mrs.  George  Turner. 
Raspberry   Vinegar 193 

Marie  Louise  Jones. 
Raspberry   Wine ." 187 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Receipt  to  Relieve  Craving  for  Alco- 
holjjb  Liquor 195 

Mrs.  James  D.  Winsor. 
Rhine  Wine  Cup 194 

Dr.  S.  Naudain  Duer. 
Rum  Toddy  (1775). . ; 181 

Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon. 

Sherbet    194 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 
Sherbet,    Lemon 191 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Sherbet    186 

Mrs.  Seth  Barton  French. 
Sherry  Cobbler,  Pres.  Cleveland's.  .    185 

Mrs.  John  Beverly  Roberts. 

Wine    Cautions 1 76 

Mr.  Raul  Garrett. 

CREAM   AND   OTHER   DESSERTS. 

Apple    Sponge 202 

Bessie  Fraser. 
Bisque  Glace 201 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson. 

Charlotte  Polonaise 199 

Mary  B.   Garrozv. 
Charlotte   Russe ._ 200 

Mrs.  Flozverree. 
Charlotte    Russe 200 

Mrs.   Portieux  Robinson. 


INDEX  375 

Charlotte    Russe 200      Wine    Jelly 205 

Mrs.  Michel.  Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam. 

Charlotte    Russe 201      Wine    Jelly 206 

Philadelphia. 

Charlotte  Russe 202 

Mrs.  Nicholas  Roosevelt.  PASTRY. 

Floating  Island 199      Apple  Dumpling,  Baked 217 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason.  Mrs.  C.  V.  F.  Greenwood. 

Orange    Charlotte 201      Cheese  Cake,  Lemon 218 

Mrs.  Edzvard  Randall.  Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 

Cocoanut   Pie 213 

Rum  Sauce 202  Mrs.  Edward  I.  Clinton. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson.  Cream  Pies 220 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Sauce   for  Fritters 202      Cream  Pie  (Lemon) 217 

Mrs.  IV.  Hinckle  Smith. 
Virginia  Bell  Fritters 202     Cream  pies ^ 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury.  M),$   MaH(j  ^^  Bfl% 

Wine   Whey 201 

Mrs.  Richmond  Pearson.  Lemon  P,e'  Famous 2I3 

Mary  E.  Chandon. 

Lemon    Pie 214 

Jh.LLJ.ltb.  Miss  Minnie  Perry. 

Lemon    Pie 218 

Mrs.  Edzvard  I.  Clinton. 
Lemon    Pie 220 

Mrs.  Nicholas  Roosevelt. 


Apple  Jelly 206 

Mrs.  Thompson. 
Apple    Jelly 208 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson. 


Calves'   Foot  Jelly 206     Mince   Meat 2I1 

Mrs.  Dangerfield.  Mrs'  U  Webster  Fox' 

Calves'   Foot  Jelly 208      Mince    Meat 2I2 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury.  Mrs-  Samucl  EwinS- 

Crab  Apple  Jelly 207     Mince  Meat,  Aunty's 213 

Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin.  Mrs'  Prcscott  Adams0»- 

Mince    Meat 214 

Jelly  with  Isinglass 207  Elisabeth  Van  Rensselaer. 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury.  Mince  Meat  (1800) 214 

Mrs.  Frederick  Wistar  Morris. 
Wine   Jelly 205      Mince    Meat 215 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings.  Mrs.  Edzvard  I.  Clinton. 

Wine    Jelly 205      Mince  Pie 215 

Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson.  Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 


376  FAMOUS 

Mince   Pies 

Madam  Stephen   Ward. 
Mince    Meat 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 
Mince  Meat  (Duke  of  Gloucester's) 
Mince  Meat 

Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith. 
Mince    Meat 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Mince    Meat 

Mrs.  Goodfellow. 
Mince  Pie 

Mrs.  Edward  Shippen. 
Molasses    Pie 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Pa  stry  

Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham. 
Pastry    

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Puff    Paste 

Miss  Charlotte  Mitchell. 
Puff    Paste 

Mrs.  Rumsey. 
Pumpkin    Pie 

Miss  Schuyler. 

Squash   Pie 

Mr.  Mark  L.  Requa. 
Sweet  Potato 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 

Washington    Pie 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 

PUDDINGS. 

A    Pudding- 

Mrs.  Edward  Jacquelin  Smith. 
Adam's  Pudding 

Mrs.  Edwin  S.  Cramp. 
Apple  Pudding > 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 


OLD  RECEIPTS 

215  Apple    Dumplings 241 

Mrs.  William  Coxe. 
216 

Blanc   Mange 235 

216  Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 

217  Boiled  Flour  Pudding 236 

R.  T.  West. 

218  Bread    Pudding 237 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith. 
218 

Cabinet  Pudding  (Royal  Iced) 227 

219  Mrs.  Sara   Yorke  Stevenson. 
Cherry  Roll 242 

219  Mrs.  Heliose  Minor. 

Chestnut    Pudding 226 

Mrs.  Charles  M.  Andrews. 

211  Citron  Pudding 226 

Mrs.  John  A.  Logan. 

216      Cocoanut   Pudding 228 

Miss  Mary  Lap sley-P yle . 

212  Cocoanut  (Blanc  Mange) 232 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

221      Continental  Pudding 233 

Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd. 

220  Cup  Custard 241 

Ellen  Gallagher. 

212      Delicious    Dessert 241 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

219 

English  Christmas  Pudding 238 

Mrs.  Charles  C  Duggin. 

9     Fig    Pudding 231 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 
Fig  Pudding 241 

Mrs.  Russell  Robinson. 

Fruit  Pudding 235 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett. 
230 

Hamburg  Cream 233 

243  Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

231      Indian   Pudding,   Baked 240 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Burrows. 


INDEX 


377 


Indian  Pudding 242 

Lucy  Dctwiler. 
Indian    Pudding 226 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader. 
Indian  Pudding  (Nantucket) 230 

Mrs.  Lydia  S.  Hinchman. 
Indian   Pudding   (New  England)...   230 

Miss  Hannah  Fox. 

Lemon   Pudding 225 

Mrs.  Morris  Hacker. 
Lemon   Kiss   Pudding 237 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 

Marmalade    Pudding 234 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Milk  Biscuit 229 

Mrs.  Deborah  Shoemaker. 

Nest  Pudding 244 

Maria   Louise   Hoxie. 

Plum   Pudding  French 225 

Mrs.  Charles  Brinton  Coxe. 
Plum   Pudding.   Kentucky 228 

Mrs.  Alice  Slaughter.   ■ 
Plum  Pudding,  Old  English 232 

Mrs.  L.   Webster  Fox. 
Plum  Pudding   (White) 232 

Mrs.   Meredith   Bailey. 
Plum   Pudding,   English 233 

Mrs.  Francis  M.  Boykin. 
Plum  Pudding,  Ireland 234 

Mrs.  Horatio  Gates  Lloyd. 
Plum   Pudding,  English 235 

Mrs.  Malcolm  S.  Councill. 
Plum    Pudding 236 

Mrs.  Vogels. 
Plum  Pudding,  Perfection 237 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Ellerbe. 
Plum  Pudding 238 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 
Plum   Pudding 238 

Miss  Schuyler. 
Plum   Pudding,   English 239 

Mrs.  William  A.  Glasgozv,  Jr. 


Plum    Pudding,   Economical 239 

Plum    Pudding 243 

Madam  Stephen  Ward. 
Potato   Pudding 235 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 

Quaking   Pudding 243 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 

Rice   Pudding,   Boiled 229 

Mrs.  Samuel  V.  Merrick. 
Rice   Pudding,   Iced 240 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson. 
Rice  Pudding 244 

Mrs.  Porticux  Robinson. 
Rice  Pudding,  Red 242 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 

Sauce    for    Pudding 236 

E.  W.  Horstman. 
Sauce,  Economical 239 

Mrs.    Wm.  A.  Glasgozv.  Jr. 
Snowdon    Pudding 229 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 
Snow    Pudding 240 

Mrs.  W.  V.  R.  Watson. 
Sweetmeat    Pudding 239 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey. 
Sweet  Potato  Pudding 231 

Mrs.  John  H.  Easby. 
Suet    Pudding 244 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

Tapioca  Pudding 234 

Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam. 
Tapioca  and  Canned  Peaches 242 

Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks. 

SAUCES    FOR    PUDDINGS. 

Chocolate    Icing 2^7 

Mrs.  John  Poe. 
Foamy  Sauce 247 

Mrs.  C.  Stuart  Patterson. 


378  FAMOUS 

Foamy  Sauce , 

Mrs.  J.  Frailey  Smith. 

Lemon  Custard  for  Tarts 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

Pudding    Sauce 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 

Sauce  for  Cakes  and  Puddings 

Mrs.  Edward  Fisher. 

Wine  Sauce 

Mrs.  Norman  Randolph. 

Yellow  Sauce  for  Puddings 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 

CAKES. 

Almond   Cake 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Almond    Cake 

Mrs.  Meredith  Bailey. 
Apeas 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 
Apple  Cake   (Dutch) 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Glasgow,  Jr. 

Black    Cake,    Wedding 

Mrs.  Frederick  Wistar  Morris. 
Black  Cake 

Mrs.  John  Somers  Smith. 
Black  Cake   (Will  keep  one  year)  .  . 

Mrs.  Roy  Mason. 
Black  Cake  V2  (Wedding  Cake)  .... 

Mrs.  Albor  Man. 
Black  Tarte   (1561) 

Mrs.  H.  Cavalier  Smith. 
Blueberry  Cake 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Boiled   Icing 

Icing   

Mrs.  Rodney. 


OLD  RECEIPTS 

248      Bride's  Cake  (Famous) 259 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 
Bride's  Cake,  Best. 267 

247  Mrs.  Albor  Man. 

Burgess   Cake 263 

Mrs.  Joseph  Neff. 
247 

Cream    Cake 256 

248  Mrs.  Edwin  J.  Clinton. 

Cream   Cake 278 

Miss  M.  Biddle. 

248     Charlotte  Polonaise 258 

Miss  Looney. 

Cheese  Cake ." 260 

248  Mrs.  Lewis  Livingstone. 

Cider  Cake 284 

Mrs.  Ella  Upton  Philler. 

Cinderella  Puffs 255 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 

256      Clove  Cake 255 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hadduck. 

274      Coffee  Cake 261 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Lyon. 

251      Coffee    Cake 263 

Mrs.  James  M,  Anders. 

269      Cookies    271 

Miss  Katherine  A.   Willcox. 

Cookies,    New    England 272 

277  Mrs.  James  M.  Anders. 

Cookies,   Wakefield   Ginger 279 

281  Miss  Elizabeth  Rodman  Fisher. 

Corn    Starch 252 

264  Mrs.  Paul  C.  Lee. 

Croxynos   280 

265  Mrs.  Pierre  Surget. 

Crullers    251 

266  Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 

Crullers    268 

283  Aunt  Mary  Balding. 

Cup  Cake 284 

271  Madam  Stephen  Ward. 

266      Currant   Dumplings 254 

Mrs.  Edzvin  I.  Clinton. 


INDEX 


379 

268 
268 


Dewey  Cake 282      Ginger   Bread,   Soft 

Mrs.  Prescott  Adamson.  Mrs.  Morris  Stroud. 

Dolly  Madison's  Whim 253      Ginger  Bread,  Taylor 

Mrs.  James  T.  Halsey.  Mrs.  Ralph  IV.  Sciss. 

Doughnuts    (French) 252      Ginger  Cake,  Montgomery  Inn 277 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller.  Mrs.  Beverly  Roberts. 

Doughnuts    253      Ginger    Bread 282 

Mrs.  Edtiiu  I.  Clinton.  Dr.  Meigs. 

Doughnuts    257      Ginger   Bread,   Soft 283 

Madam  Stephen    Ward.  Mrs.  E.  IV.  Clark. 

Doughnuts    260      Ginger  Bread,   Soft 283 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud.  Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle. 

Doughnuts     269      Ginger  Bread 285 

Mrs.  Joseph  Patterson.  Mrs.  Clara  Lee  Pollard. 

Doughnuts  271      Ginger   Bread,   Hard 286 

Aunt  Nancy  Trotter.  Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 

Doughnuts     2/^      Ginger  Pound  Cake 256 

Miss  F.   Virginia  Baldwin.  Ginger   Pound   Cake 261 

Doughnuts 276  Mrs.  Cary. 


Mrs.  M.  E.  Furman. 
Drop  Cakes,  English 274 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Dutch    Cake 255 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 

English   Tea   Cake 283 

Mrs.  Prescott  Adamson. 
English   Cakes '285 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith. 

Fruit    Cake 255 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Fruit  Cake,  Martha  Washington's.  .  279 

Mrs.  Roberts  Lowrie. 
Fruit    Cake 279 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 


Ginger  Nuts 255 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 
Ginger  Snaps 252 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Ginger  Snaps 265 

Madam  Stephen  }Vard. 
Grand  Duke  Cake 252 

Mrs.  Alex.  Delgado. 

Grandmother's    Plunkets 263 

'     Mrs.  Edzvard  I.  Cramp. 

Hermits    257 

Miss  Marie  L.  Minor. 
Hollow  Hearts 272 

Laura  G.  Brozvcr. 

Imperial  Cake 281 

Miss  M.   Biddle. 


Ginger  Cake,   Soft 254      Jumbles    256 

Mrs.  Edwin  I.   Clinton.  Mrs.  Edwin  I.  Clinton. 

Ginger  Bread,  Molasses 262      Jumbles,  Cinnamon 26G 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury.  Madam  Stephen  Ward. 

Ginger  Bread,  Crisp 267      Jumbles,    Lemon 264 

Mrs.   Collins.  Mrs.    Washington   Tompkins. 


38o 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


Jumbles,  Sour  Cream 264 

Miss  Katherine  A.   W ilk ox. 

Jumbles  284 

Mrs.  Catherine  Leaf  Smith. 

Laughing  Mollies 265 

Miss  A.  Jacqueline  Minor. 
Lemon    Puff 254 

Mrs.  Robert  H.  Maury. 

Lemon  Sauce 270 

Lemon  Cake,  Aunt  Phebe's 278 

Miss  Caroline  E.  Brooks. 
Loaf  Cake,  French 262 

Mrs.  Charlotte  Cranwell  Minor. 

Maple    Biscuit. 267 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Marguerites     282 

Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison. 
Mehitable  Cake. 260 

Mrs.  Edward  Williams. 
Molasses  Cheese  Cake 251 

Mrs.  Alice  Cabell  Palmer. 
Molasses    Pound   Cake 258 

Mrs.  Edunn  I.  Clinton. 
Molasses    Pound   Cake 273 

Mrs.  Marie  Louise  Jones. 
Molasses    Cake 273 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 
Molasses    Pound 275 

Mrs.  Dominick. 
Moravian  Orange  Bread 262 

Miss  M.  Schott. 
Moravian  Sugar  Cake 270 

Miss  M.  P.  Connelly. 

New  Year  Cake 284 

Miss  Catherine  Bishop. 
New    Year's    Cake 285 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 
Number  Cake 258 

Mrs.  Jennie  Williams. 
Olycooks    277 

Mrs.  Francis  Taylor  Chambers. 


Orange    Cake 275 

Penelope  Jones. 

Pan  Cakes,    Stir 270 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett. 
Pound   Cake 262 

Madam  Stephen  Ward. 
Pound   Cakes,   Little 281 

Miss  M.  Biddle. 
Quaker    Cake 256 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Halsey. 
Quire  of  Paper  Pan  Cakes 280 

Mrs.  Gulielma  Harrison. 

Rail   Road 254 

Rice   Cake 284 

Miss  M.  P.  Connelly. 

Sand  Tarts 253 

Mrs.  Washington  Hopkins. 
Sand  Tarts,  Old  Philadelphia 259 

Miss  M.  M.  Halsey. 
Sand  Tarts,  Pennsylvania 265 

Mrs.  Caroline  Rogers  Buehler. 
Sand  Tarts 285 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Scotch    Cake 268 

Mrs.  Morris  R.  Stroud. 
Scripture    Cake 275 

Mrs.  James  Crosby  Brown. 
Shrewsbury   Cake 259 

Mrs.   W .  Hinckel  Smith. 
Soda    Cake 261 

Mrs.  Rosalie  Beauregard  Page. 
Spice    Cake 274 

Mrs.  Francis  Sorrel. 
Spice  Cake,  Mrs.  Roosevelt's 285 

Mrs.  Theodore  Roosevelt. 
Sponge    Cake 253 

Mrs.  Charles  Duggin. 
Sponge    Cake 257 

Mrs.  Earl  B.  Putnam. 
Sponge  Cake,  Cream 259 

Miss  Frances  Virginia  Baldwin. 


INDEX 


38i 


Sponge    Cake 261 

Madam  Stephen  Ward. 
Sponge    Cake 265 

Mrs.  C.  W.   Dailey. 
Sponge  Cake 266 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hadduck. 
Sponge    Cake 2/6 

Mrs.  Sarah  Pozvel. 
Sponge    Cake 271 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Hewlett. 
Sponge   Cake,   Old   Fashioned 273 

Mrs.  Samuel  Bcttle. 
Sponge    Cake 273 

Mrs.  Joshua  Harvey. 
Sponge    Cake 280 

Mrs.  Oliver  Hastings. 
Sugar  Cakes 274 

Mrs.  Locke. 

Lettis   Tart 269 

Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 

Washington    Cake 281 

Emile  Victorine  Wierman. 
Wedding  Cake,  Schuyler 264 

Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon. 
Wedding  Cake  Lady  Washington.  .  272 

Mrs.  Samuel  Ezving. 
White   Mountain   Cake 276 

Mrs.  John  Beard  sic  c. 
Whortleberry    Cake 258 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 


FILLING  FOR  CAKES. 

Filling    289 

Mtss  L.  M.  Warfield. 
Filling   289 

Miss  Mary  Savage  Jones. 
Filling,   Marshmallow    Cake 290 

Mrs.  Whittle. 
Filling.  Caramel  Cake 290 

Mrs.  Whittle. 


Filling    290 

Miss  L.  M.  Warfield. 

Icing    289 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Elliott. 


PICKLES. 

Bordeaux    Sauce 298 

Miss  Boughter. 

Canteloupe    Pickle,    German 300 

Mrs.  John  Minor  Maury. 

Chili  Sauce 301 

Chow-Chow    294 

Mrs.  Lcziis  R.  Lemoinc. 
Chow-Chow,    Tomato 297 

Mrs.  E.   IV.  Horstman. 
Chow-Chow   Pickle 298 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.- Maury. 
Cucumber    Pickle,   Small 295 

Miss  Elizabeth   White. 
Cucumber   Mash 297 

Mrs.  Nathaniel  Chapman. 
Cucumber    Oil 299 

Miss  Belle  Maury. 

Grape  Sauce 298 

F.  L.  I^ewis. 

Limes,    Preserved 302 

Mrs.  Mary  Rawle  Williams. 

Mustard   Pickle 296 

Mrs.  Robert  G.  Gamble. 

Onion    Pickle 296 

Mrs.  Alice  Cotell  Palmer. 

Peach,    Spiced 295 

Mrs.  Walter  R.  Horstman. 
Peaches,     Spiced 300 

Miss  Maria  Louise  Hoxie. 


38: 


FAMOUS  OLD  RECEIPTS 


Pepper   Hash, 297 

Mrs.  George  Philler. 
Piccalilli 301 

Mrs.  lames  Crosby  Brown. 
Pickle,  Old  Virginia 293 

Airs.  John  Beverly  Roberts. 
Pickle,  French 295 

Mrs.  Mary  Palmer  Bispham.. 
Pickle,  Daniel  Webster 299 

Mrs.  Russell  Davenport. 

Tomato  Pickle 296 

Mrs.  M.  Kim  Miller. 
Tomato   Pickle,   Sweet 299 

Mrs.  Richard  Gilpin. 
Tomato   Pickle,   Green 300 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Tomato  Pickle,  Green 301 

Mrs.  General  Watts. 
Tomato   Pickle,    Green 302 

Mrs.  John  Staige  Davis. 

CATSUPS. 

Chili  Sauce 305 

Mrs.  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Chili  Sauce 306 

Mrs.  Russell  Robinson. 

Tomato   Catsup 305 

Tomato   Catsup 305 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Dailey. 
Tomato  Catsup,  The  Best 306 

Mrs,  Dabney  H.  Maury. 
Tomato   Ketchup 306 

Miss  Mary  Lapsley-Pyle. 

PRESERVES. 

Almonds,   Caramel 317 

Adelaide  Y.  Chilton. 
Apples,   Stuffed 312 

Herbert  L.  Clark. 
Caramels    318 

Mary  Rice. 


Caramel,    Chocolate 318 

Miss  Caroline  Duer. 
Currant  and  Raisin.  Jam 312 

Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon. 

Fig  Preserves 313 

Mrs.  Gabriel  Benoist  Shields. 

Grape    Jam 316 

Miss  Eliza  Sinclair  Lyon. 
Green    Sweetmeats 309 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Green  Sweetmeats,  The  Best 309 

Mrs.  Lezvis  N.  Webb. 

Marshmallows    315 

Miss  Josephine  B.  Meeks. 
Mint   Cream 318 

Mrs.  Elwood  Newton. 

Orange    Marmalade 312 

Mrs.  Portieux  Robinson. 
Orange    Marmalade 316 

M.  E.  Leager. 

Peaches,   Brandied 310 

Mrs.  J .  D.  Martinez  Cardeza. 
Peaches,    Brandied 313 

Mrs.  Elsie  Ramee  Arguimbau. 
Peach   Encho 310 

Anna  Ledyard  Cuyler. 
Peaches,    Brandied 311 

Miss  Nancy  Cope. 
Peach  Leather 317 

■Mrs.  Susan  Lymar  Morris  Bruce. 
Pears,  Gingered 315 

Miss  Katharine  Willcox. 
Pecan   Kisses 315 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Pecan   Kisses 317 

Mrs.  Philip   Harding. 
Pecan  Macaroons 314 

Mrs.  Oliver  Bonsh. 
Pineapple  Preserves 311 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury, 


INDEX 


583 


Pralines,    Creole 313      For  the  Sick,  Mulled  Wine 324 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Ellerbe.  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson. 

For  the  Sick,  London  1855 324 

Quinces,  To  Preserve  White 314  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson. 

Miss  Gibbs. 

Quinces,  How  to  Preserve 318      Italian   Cheese 323 

Mrs.  Samuel  Powel.  Miss  Katharine  Willcox. 


Strawberries,  Brandied 315      Welsh    Rarebit 326 

Miss  Annie  S.  Hammond. 
Welsh  Rarebit 321 


Miss  Marie  Louise  Hoxie. 

Tomato  Preserve,  Yellow 314 

Mrs.  W.  Hinckle  Smith. 
Tomato    Preserve,    Green 316 

Cousin  Marion. 

Wine    Jelly 316 

Madam  Stephen  Ward. 

DAINTIES. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Aching  Muscles 330 

Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin. 
Ants    331 

Miss  Pauline  Johnson. 

Barry's   Tricopherous 329 

Miss  Pauline  Johnson. 


Calves'   Foot  Jelly 322 

Mrs.   Toland. 
Cheese  Fondu  au  Gratin 321 

Miss  Josephine  Barry  Meeks. 
Cheese    Patties 324 

Mrs.  Henry  Parkman. 
Cheese  Straws 324 

Mrs.  Charles  B.  Maury. 
Cheese,    Toasted 325 

Elsie  Chapin. 
Coffee  Brulo,  New  Orleans 2>2i 

Houston  Eldredge. 
Cream  Cheese  (1787) 323      Hair  Tonic 329 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadwalader.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Griffiths. 

Cream    Cheese 325 

TDr.  Horace  Howard  Fumess.  Lock  Jaw 329 

Cream    Sandwiches 321 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Cleveland.  Rheumatic  Pains 331 


Canada  Thistle  Tea 330 

Chills   and   Fever 330 

Miss  F.  Virginia  Baldwin. 
Cold  Cure 330 

Rebecca  Elliott. 

Diarrhoea   329 

Eye   Water 331 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Cadivaladcr. 


Daffodil    Sandwiches 322  Mrs.  Judge  Frederick  Smith's  Salve  330 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  B.  Alexander. 
For  the  Sick,   Sago  Milk 325      Wash  for  Blankets 329 

Mrs.  Robert  E.  Peterson.  Mrs.  W .  Hinckle  Smith. 


wis 


* 


,«<?* 


A°+ 


*fev* 


*9<^ 


,0° 


^0 


5°* 


&vh 


-H°* 


SS  .vSSfcfc  **.,♦♦  .*  JJfeu  "W  .-ifiSfcfc.  v,*  .• 


,^\^.\  /<£fcS  /sMikS    * 


*o 


