LIBRARY 


OF  THE 


z 
o 

u 
-J 
o 

^> 


MASSACHUSETTS 
AGRICULTURAL 


'-WT    I 


PCE 


B3 


•  □3    1   r    -P-^TE   DPE 

APR  1 ' 

mo 

[■  Pi8 

•k-oss 

v\   '     *—  t V* 

A 


THE 


FARMER'S  OWN  BOOK; 


OR 


FAMILY  RECEIPTS 


FOR  THE 


HUSBANDMAN   AND    HOUSEWIFE; 

BEING   A    COMPILATION    OF    THE 

VERY  BEST   RECEIPTS 

ON 

AGRICULTURE,  GARDENING  AND  COOKERY. 

WITH    RULES    FOR 

KEEPING  FARMERS'   ACCOUNTS. 


BY  H.  L.  BARNUM, 

EDITOR   OF    THE    FARMERS*    REPORTER. 


STEREOTYPE  EDITION. 

BOSTON : 

PUBLISHED  BY  CARTER  AND  HENDEE. 

1832. 


4  3  0  •  0  3 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  eighteen 
hundred  and  thirty-two, 

BY  CARTER  &  HENDEE, 

in  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  Massachusetts. 


PREFACE. 


The  title  and  contents  of  this  work  present  a  better 
preface,  perhaps,  than  could  be  given  by  enumerating 
all  the  claims  usually  accompanying  the  introduction 
of  books. 

An  attempt  to  assume  any  thing  more  than  utility  in 
this  case,  might  convict  me  of  the  "crime"  so  frequently 
charged  against  the  quill  fraternity;  vulgarly  called 
^'clipping  books  and  cabbaging  ideas." 

Many  original  recipes  are  given,  but  the  majority  of 
them  are  borrowed  from  the  most  celebrated  American 
and  European  works. 

The  '•'Domestic  Encyclopedia^''  "JVezy  American  Gar- 
dener^'' '•'American  Farmer^''  ''JVew-England  Farmer ^"^ 
''Journal  of  Health^'''  "Genesee  Farmer^''''  "Mackenzie's 
Receipts^''''  "Farmer''s  Guide,''''  "Loudon^s  Agricultural  En- 
cyclopedia,''''  "Dean's  Kezo-England  Farmer,'"  "A''ew-York 
Farmer^''  "Farmers  Assistant,''^  "Farmers  Manual,''''  "Ed- 
inhurgh  Encyclopedia,^''  and  "Library  of  Useful  Know- 
ledge,^'' are  the  principal  works  referred  to  in  selecting 
the  matter. 

The  whole  taken  together  comprises  a  valuable  book 
for  families  of  any  occupation  or  situation  in  life.  I  do 
not  feel  disposed  to  pufF,  but  having  given  credit  to  oth- 
ers for  the  matter,  no  delicacy  is  felt  in  representing  the 
work  in  its  true  character. 
3 


PREFACE. 

If  "method  is  the  soul  of  management,  then  the  pros- 
perity and  happiness  of  a  family  depend  greatly  on  the 
order  and  regularity  established  in  it.  There  is  eco- 
nomy, as  well  as  comfort,  in  a  regular  mode  of  doing 
business." 

Many  husbandmen  and  housewives  attend  to  tlie  va- 
rious duties  devolving  upon  them  in  their  domestic  con- 
cerns without  any  rule,  system,  or  order,  and  therefore 
trust  entirely  to  the  precariousness  of  chance. 

The  design  of  this  work,  is  to  obviate  this  difficulty, 
by  giving,  in  few  words,  such  rules  as  will  secure  bene- 
ficial results  in  the  most  important  branches  of  Domestic 
Economy. 

THE  COMPILER. 


AGRICULTURE. 


TO    PRESERVE    GRAIN. 

A  discovery  of  considerable  importance  has  been  an- 
nounced, with  regard  to  preserving  grain.  To  preserve 
rye,  and  secure  it  from  insects  and  rats,  nothing  more 
is  necessary  than  not  to  fan  it  after  it  is  threshed,  and 
to  stow  it  in  the  granaries  mixed  with  the  chaff.  In 
this  state  it  has  been  kept  more  than  three  years,  with- 
out experiencing  the  smallest  alteration,  and  even  without 
the  necessity  of  being  turned  to  preserve  it  from  humidity 
and  fermentation. — The  experiment  has  not  yet  been 
made  with  wheat  and  other  kinds  of  grain,  and  they 
may  probably  be  preserved  in  chaff  with  equal  advantage. 


TO    PRESERVE    EGGS. 

Apply  with  a  brush  a  solution  of  gum  Arabic  to  the 
shells,  or  immerse  the  eggs  therein,  let  them  dry, 
and  afterwards  pack  them  in  dry  charcoal  dust. — 
This  prevents  their  being  affected  by  any  change  of 
temperature. 

A  2 


(3  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

TO    PRESERVE   BEES   FROM  WORMS  AND  BUTTERFLIES. 

About  the  first  of  May,  raise  the  hive  up,  and  strew 
some  fine  salt  under  the  edge.  This  will  drive  those 
insects  away. 


TO    PURIFY    TALLOW    FOR    CANDLES. 

Take  5-8  of  tallow,  and  3-8  of  mutton  suet;  melt 
them  in  a  copper  chaldron,  with  it  mix  8  ounces  of 
brandy,  one  of  salt  of  tartar,  one  of  sal  ammoniac,  two 
of  dry  potash.  Throw  the  mixture  into  the  chaldron, 
make  the  ingredients  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  set 
the  whole  to  cool.  Next  day  the  tallow  will  be  found 
on  the  surface  of  the  water  in  a  pure  cake.  Take  it 
out  and  expose  it  to  the  air  for  some  days  on  canvass, 
[t  will  become  white  and  almost  as  hard  as  wax.  The 
iew  is  favorable  to  its  bleaching.  Make  your  wicks  of 
ine  even  cotton;  give  them  a  coat  of  melted  wax,  then 
-:ast  your  mould  candles.  They  will  have  the  appear- 
'>*nce  of  wax  in  a  degree,  and  one  of  them  (six  to  a 
pound)  will  burn  fourteen  hours  and  not  run. 


BARLEY,    TO    INCREASE. 

To  increase  a  crop  of  barley,  dissolve  three  pounds 
«?f  copperas  in  a  pail  of  boiling  water.  Add  to  this  as 
much  dung  puddle  water  as  will  cover  three  or  foui 
bushels  of  barley.  Stir  it,  and  let  it  steep  four  and 
twenty  hours;  when  the  seed  is  drained  and  spread,  sift 
on  fine  lime,  which  fits  it  for  sowing.  Steeping  the  seed 
about  twenty-four  hours  in  the  wash  of  a  dunghill, 
without  any  mixture,  is  said  to  produce  a  very  good  effect. 


TO    DESTROY    ANTS. 

The  farmer,  when  he  manures  his  land,  if  he  will  use 
ashes,  lime,  salt  or  sand,  will  not  be  troubled  with  those 
insects.  Dr.  Rees'  Cyclopaedia  recommends  boiling 
rain  water  with  black  soap  and  sulphur,  and  saturating 
the  ground  with  it,  which  is  infested  with  ants. 


AGRICULTURE.  7 

TO   MAKE   CIDER. 

In  making  cider  see  that  the  mill,  the  press,  and  all 
the  materials  be  sweet  and  clean,  and  the  straw  free 
from  must.  The  fruit  should  be  ripe,  but  not  rotten, 
and  when  the  apples  are  ground,  if  the  juice  is  left  in 
pumice  24  hours,  the  cider  will  be  richer,  softer  and 
higher  colored.  If  the  fruit  be  all  of  one  kind  it  is 
generally  thought  that  the  cider  will  be  better;  as  the 
fermentation  will  be  more  regular.  The  juice  of  the 
fruit,  as  it  comes  from  the  press,  should  be  placed  in 
open  headed  casks  or  vats:  in  this  situation,  it  is  likely 
to  undergo  a  proper  fermentation,  and  the  person  attend- 
ing may,  with  great  correctness,  ascertain  when  the 
first  fermentation  ceases;  this  is  of  great  importance, 
and  must  be  particularly  a.ttended  to.  The  fermenta- 
tion is  attended  with  a  hissing  noise,  bubbles  rising  to  the 
surface  and  there  forming  a  soft  spungy  crust  over  the 
liquor.  When  this  crust  begins  to  crack,  and  a  white 
froth  appears  in  the  cracks  level  with  the  surface  of  the 
head,  the  fermentation  is  about  stopping.  At  this  time 
the  liquor  is  in  the  fine  genuine  clear  state,  and  must  be 
drawn  off  immediately  into  clean  casks;  and  this  is  the 
time  to  fumigate  it  with  sulphur.  To  do  this,  take  a 
strip  of  canvass  or  rag,  about  two  inches  broad  and 
twelve  inches  long,  dip  this  into  melted  sulphur,  and 
when  a  few  pails  of  worked  cider  are  put  into  the  cask, 
set  this  match  on  fire  and  hold  it  in  the  cask  till  it  is 
consumed,  then  bung  the  cask  and  shake  it,  that  the 
liquor  may  incorporate  with,  and  retain  the  fumes;  after 
this,  fill  the  cask  and  bung  it  up.  This  cider  should  be 
racked  off  again  the  latter  part  of  February,  or  first  of 
March;  and  if  not  as  clear  as  you  wish  it,  put  in  izin- 
glass,  to  fine,  and  stir  it  well;  then  put  the  cask  in  a 
cool  place  where  it  will  not  be  disturbed,  for  the  finery 
to  settle.  Cider,  prepared  in  this  manner,  will  keep 
sweet  for  years. 

Mr.  Deane  observes  "I  have  found  it  answer  well  to 
do  nothing  to  cider  till  March,  or  the  beginning  of  April, 
except  giving  a  cask  a  small  vent  hole,  and  keeping  it 
open  till  the  first  fermentation  is  over;  then  draw  it  off 
into  good  casks;  and  fine  it  with  skim  milk,  eggs  broke 


8  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

up  Avitli  the  shells,  or  molasses.  A  quart  of  molasses 
Avill  give  a  line  flavour  to  a  barrel  of  cider,  as  aycII  as 
carry  rJl  tlie  lees  to  the  bottom.  But  lest  it  should  in- 
cline the  liquor  to  prick,  or  become  sour,  I  put  in  at  the 
same  time  a  quart  of  rum  or  brandy;  and  it  seldom  fails 
of  keeping  v/cll  to  the  end  of  summer.  Cellars  in  which 
cider  is  kept,  should  have  neither  doors  nor  windows 
kept  open  in  the  summer,  and  the  casks  should  stand 
steady  and  not  be  shaken  to  disturb  the  sediment. 

The  casks  which  contain  new  cider  should  be  filled 
perfectly  full  to  permit  the  froth  or  pumice  to  discharge 
itself  at  the  bung.  The  pressure  of  the  pumice  should 
be  slow  that  the  liquor  may  run  the  clearer.  Some  say 
that  if  the  cider  be  racked  off  in  a  week  after  it  is  made, 
ceasing  the  moment  it  becomes  muddy;  in  ten  days  a 
second  time,  and  in  fifteen  days  a  third  time,  it  will  need 
no  other  process  for  fining  or  purifying  it.  In  every  in- 
stance the  casks  should  be  clean,  and  perfectly  filled, 
cmd  when  filled  for  the  last  time  should  be  bunged  up 
close,  and  placed  in  a  deep,  dry  cellar,  never  to  be  mo- 
ved till  drawn  off  for  use. 

The  later  the  apples  hang  on  the  trees,  the  more  spirit 
the  cider  will  contain.  In  bottling  cider  it  is  recom- 
mended to  raise  the  proof  of  the  cider  by  putting  in 
about  two  tea  spoonfuls  of  French  brandy  to  each  bot- 
tle, which  will  check  fermentation,  and  prevent  the 
bursting  of  the  botles. 


TO    KILL    COCK-ROACHES. 

It  is  said  that  a  few  leaves  of  elder,  strewed  on  the 
floor  of  a  room  infested  with  cock-roaches,  will  extirpate 
those  insects. 


TO  KEEP  APPLES  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Put  them  in  casks  or  bins,  in  layers,  well  covered  with 
dry  sand;  each  layer  being  covered.  This  preserves 
them  from  the  air,  from  moisture,  and  from  frost;  it  pre- 
vents their  perishing  by  their  own  perspiration,  their 
moisture  being  absorbed  by  the  sand;  at  the  same  time, 
it  preserves  tlie  flavor  of  the  apples,  and  prevents  their 


AGRICULTURE.  9 

wilting.  Pippins  have  been  kept  m  this  manner  sound 
and  fresh,  till  midsummer;  and  how  much  longer  they 
would  have  kept  is  not  known.  Any  kind  of  sand  will 
answer,  but  it  must  be  perfectly  dry* 


PRESERVATION    OF    PLU3IS,    PEACHES,    &C. 

An  English  publication  stcites  that  plums  and  peaches 
may  be  preserved  sweet  through  the  year  by  the  follow- 
ing process:  'Beat  well  up  together  equal  quantities  of 
honey  and  spring  water;  pour  it  into  an  earthen  vessel, 
put  in  the  fruits  all  freshly  gathered  and  cover  them 
quite  close.  When  any  of  the  fruit  is  taken  out,  wash 
it  in  cold  water,  and  it  is  fit  for  immediate  use.' 


CURE    FOR    MUSTY    CORN. 

Immerse  it  in  boiling  water,  and  let  it  remain  till  the 
water  becomes  cold.  The  quantity  of  water  should  be 
at  least  double  the  quantity  of  corn  to  be  purified. 


TO    FEED    FOWLS. 

Corn  given  to  fowls  should  be  crushed  and  soaked  in 
water;  this  helps  digestion,  and  hens  will  lay  in  winter 
that  are  so  fed  that  would  not  otherwise. 

Feed  your  fowls  in  winter  with  bones,  pounded  fine; 
and  they  will  need  less  corn,  and  lay  as  plentifully  as  at 
any  season  of  the  year.  The  bones  supply  the  carbonate 
of  lime,  which  is  necessary  for  the  production  of  the 
shell,  and  a  part  of  the  yolk  of  the  e^^, — Egg  shells, 
oyster  shells,  chalk  or  unburnt  lime  answer  a  similar 
purpose. 


TO    DESTROY    THE    BEE-MILLER. 

To  a  pint  of  sweetened  water  (sweetened  with  sugar 
or  honey,)  add  half  a  gill  of  vinegar;  set  this  in  an  open 
vessel  on  the  top  of  the  hive,  and  at  night,  when  the 
miller  comes  to  his  work  of  destruction,  he  will  prefer 
this  composition,  and  diving  into  it,  will  immediately 
drown.  This  simple  method,  is  almost  certain  success. 
At  all  events,  it  is  worthy  of  attention;  and  we  would 
recommend  to  the  owners  of  bees  to  make  a  trial  of  it. 


10  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

PERFU3IES    A    PREVENTIVE    AGAINST    MOULDINESS. 

Dr.  M'Culloch,  of  Edinburgh,  has  pabhshed  a  paper 
in  the  Philosophical  Transactions  of  the  city,  in  which 
he  points  out  that  all  essential  oils  possess  the  property 
of  preventing  the  growth  of  mould.  His  observations 
are  of  such  general  utility,  that  I  copy  them  for  public 
benefit. 

Ink,  paste,  leather,  and  seeds,  are  among  the  common 
articles  Avhich  suffer  from  this  cause,  and  to  which  the 
remedy  is  usually  applicable.  With  respect  to  articles 
of  food,  such  as  bread,  cold  meats,  or  dried  fish,  it  is  less 
easy  to  apply  a  remedy,  on  account  of  the  taste.  Cloves, 
however,  and  other  spices  whose  flavors  are  grateful, 
may  sometimes  be  used  for  this  end;  and  that  they  act 
in  consequence  of  this  principle,  and  not  by  any  parti- 
cular antiseptic  virtue,  seems  plain,  by  their  preventing 
equally  the  growth  of  those  minute  crj^ptogamous  plants 
on  ink,  and  other  substances  not  of  an  animal  nature. 

"The  effect  of  cloves  in  preventing  the  mouldiness  in 
Ink,  is  indeed  generally  known;  and  it  is  obtained  in  the 
same  way  by  oil  of  lavender,  in  n  very  minute  quantity, 
'or  by  any  other  of  the  perfumed  oils. 

"To  preserve  leather  in  the  same  manner  from  this 
effect,  is  a  matter  of  great  importance,  where  the  labor 
employed  in  cleaning  harness  and  shoes  is  a  cause  of 
considerable  expense,  and  where  much  injury  is  occa- 
sionally sustained  from  this  cause.  The  same  essential 
oils  answer  the  purpose,  as  far  as  I  have  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  trying  effectually.  The  cheapest,  of  course, 
should  be  selected,  and  it  would  be  necessary  to  try  oil 
of  turpentine  for  this  reason. 

"It  is  a  remarkable  confirmation  of  this  circumstance, 
that  Russian  leather,  which  is  perfumed  with  the  tar  of 
the  birch  tree,  is  not  subject  to  mouldiness,  as  must  be 
well  known  to  all  who  possess  books  thus  bound.  They 
even  prevent  it  from  taking  place  in  those  books  bound 
in  calf  near  to  which  they  happen  to  lie.  The  fact  is 
particularly  well  known  to  Russian  merchants,  as  they 
suffer  bales  of  this  article  to  lie  in  the  London  docks  in 
the  most  careless  manner,  for  a  great  length  of  time, 
knowing  well  that  they  ran  sustain  no  injury  of  this 


AGRICULTURE.  H 

ture  from  dampness,  whereas  common  curried  leather 
requires  to  be  opened,  cleansed,  and  ventilated.  Col- 
lectors of  books  will  not  be  sorry  to  learn,  that  a  fevv^ 
drops  of  any  perfumed  oil  will  insure  their  libraries 
from  this  pest. 

"Dr.  M.  began  some  experiments  with  the  same  agents 
on  wood,  to  prevent  the  dry  rot,  but  not  having  time  to 
carry  them  on,  he  recommends  the  important  investiga- 
tion to  others. — With  regard  to  paste,  he  prefers  rosin 
to  alum  as  a  preservative ;  but  lavender,  or  any  other 
strong  perfume,  such  as  peppermint,  anise,  and  burga- 
mot,  are  perfectly  effectual  for  years,  however  the  paste 
is  composed."  That  which  the  Doctor  himself  employs 
in  labelling,  &:c.  is  "made  of  flour  in  the  usual  way,  but 
rather  thick,  with  a  proportion  of  brow^n  sugar,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  corrosive  sublimate.  The  use  of  the 
sugar  is  to  keep  it  flexible,  so  as  to  prevent  its  scaling 
off  from  smooth  surfaces ;  and  that  of  the  corrosive  sub- 
limate, independently  of  preserving  it  from  insects,  as 
an  effectual  check  against  its  fermentation.  This  salt, 
however,  does  not  prevent  the  formation  of  mouldiness. 
But  as  a  drop  or  two  of  the  essential  oils  above  men- 
tioned is  a  complete  security  against  this,  all  the  causes 
of  destruction  are  effectually  guarded  against.  Paste 
made  in  this  manner,  and  exposed  to  the  air,  dries  with- 
out change  to  a  state  resembling  horn;  so  that  it  may  at 
any  time  be  wetted  again  and  applied  to  use.  When 
kept  in  a  close  covered  pot,  it  may  be  preserved  in  a 
state  for  use  at  all  times." 

He  then  proceeds — "This  principle  seems  also  appli- 
cable to  the  preservation  of  seeds,  particularly  in  cases 
where  they  are  sent  from  distant  countries  by  sea,  when 
it  is  well  known  that  they  perish  from  this  cause. — 
Dampness,  of  course,  will  perform  its  office  at  any  rate, 
if  moisture  is  not  excluded;  yet  it  is  certain  that  the 
growth  of  the  vegetables  which  constitute  mould,  acce- 
lerate the  evil,  whether  by  retaining  moisture,  or  by 
what  means  is  not  very  apparent.  This  in  fact,  hap- 
pens equally  in  the  case  of  dry  rot  in  wood,  and  indeed 
in  all  others  where  this  cause  operates.  It  is  a  curious 
illustration  of  the  truth  of  this  view  of  a  remedy,  that 


12  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  aromatic  seeds  of  all  kinds  are  not  subject  to 
mould,  and  that  their  vicinity  prevents  it  in  others  with 
which  they  are  packed ;  they  also  produce  the  same  ef- 
fect daily,  even  in  animal  matters,  without  its  being  sus- 
pected. I  need  only  remark,  that  it  is  common  to  put 
pepper  into  collections  of  insects  or  birds,  without  its 
having  been  remarked  that  it  had  the  same  power  of 
keeping  off  mould,  as  of  discouraging  or  killing  the 
insects  that  commit  ravages  in  these  cases, 

"In  concluding  these  hints,  I  might  add,  in  illustration 
of  them,  that  ginger-bread  and  bread  containing  cara- 
way seeds  is  far  less  liable  to  mouldiness,  than  plain 
bread.  It  will  be  a  matter  worthy  of  consideration 
how  far  flour  might  be  preserved  by  some  project  of 
this  kind. 


TO    DESTROY    RATS. 

A  correspondent,  who  had  noticed  in  a  recent  num- 
ber of  our  journal,  a  paragraph  recommending  ground 
cork,  fried  in  grease,  as  an  efficacious  plan  for  destroy- 
ing rats,  states,  that  he  lately  put  the  plan  to  the  test 
of  experience,  and  completely  succeeded.  "The  case 
was  that  of  two  old  women  in  the  village  of  Denny, 
who  had  lived  in  two  detached  garret  rooms  of  the 
same  building.  The  rats  had  long  been  troublesome, 
but  at  length  had  became  so  numerous  and  daring,  that 
they  fairly  threatened  to  challenge  the  tenants  with  no 
longer  possession.  The  fried  cork  had  only  been  laid 
for  them  three  nights,  before  the  whole  disappeared. 
A  fact  of  this  kind  cannot  be  made  too  public,  since  it 
may  be  the  means  of  preventing  many  of  those  serious 
accidents  which  so  frequently  occur  from  the  use  of 
poison." 


TO    PREVENT    SMUT    IN    WHEAT. 

Take  of  best  soft  green  soap,  made  from  fish  oil,  I 
pound,  and  of  scalding  water,  4  gallons.  Put  the  soap 
into  a  glazed  vessel  with  a  small  portion  of  the  water; 
continue  stirring  it,  and  add  the  water  as  it  dissolves, 
till  tibe  whole  is  a  perfect  ley.     It  should  be  used  about 


AGRICULTURE.  13 

90  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer,  or  new-miik 
warm.  Put  the  wheat  into  a  tub,  and  pour  on  ii  a 
quantity  of  the  Uquor  sufficient  to  cover  it  completely, 
and  throw  a  blanket  over  it  to  preserve  the  heat.  Stir 
it  every  ten  minutes,  and  take  off  the  scum.  V/hen  it 
has  remained  in  this  manner  for  an  hour,  drain  the  li- 
quor from  the  wheat  through  a  sieve,  or  let  the  tub  be 
furnished  with  a  drain  bottom  like  a  brewing  vat.  Let 
the  liquor  which  was  drawn  off,  stand  a  few  minutes 
to  subside,  and  then  pour  it  off  the  sediment.  Repeat 
the  operation  till  the  whole  quantity  is  steeped,  only 
observe  to  add,  each  time,  as  much  hot  ley  as  was  ob- 
served by  the  former  steeping.  Dry  the  vrheat  Vv^ith 
quick  lime,  and  sovv  as  soon  as  convenient.  It  will 
keep  ten  days  after  steeping;  but  should  be  spread  thin 
on  a  dry  floor. 

If  a  tub  with  a  drain  bottom  is  used,  such  as  a  hogs- 
head, with  a  spigot  to  draw  off  the  ley,  4  ounces  of 
soap,  and  1  gallon  of  water  scalding  hot,  will  preserve  a 
stock  of  warm  ley  sufficient  for  any  cpantity  of  wheat. 
The  operation  should  be  performed  in  a  clean  place,  at 
a  distance  from  barns  and  granaries,  the  roofs  of  which 
may  be  observed  hanging  full  of  smut.  The  refuse  of 
smutted  wheat  should  be  buried  deep  in  the  earth,  and 
not  thrown  to  the  dunghill,  from  which  it  would  be  con- 
veyed to  the  field. 


TO  PRODUCE  EARLY  POTATOES  IN  GREAT  QUANTITY. 

Early  potatoes  may  be  produced  in  great  quantity  by 
resetting  the  plants,  after  taking  off  the  ripe  and  large 
ones.  A  gentleman  at  Dumfries,  has  re-planted  them 
six  different  times  in  one  season,  without  any  additional 
manure,  and  instead  of  falling  off  in  quantity,  he  gets 
a  larger  crop  of  ripe  ones  at  every  raising,  than  the 
former  ones.  His  plants  have  still  on  them  three  dis- 
tinct crops,  and  he  supposes  they  may  still  continue  to 
vegetate  and  germinate  until  they  are  stopped  by  tlie 
frost.  By  this  means  he  has  a  new  crop  every  eight 
days. 

B 


14  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

TO    DESTROY    THE    FLY    ON    TURNIPS. 

Lime  sown  by  the  hand,  or  distributed  by  a  machine, 
is  an  infalhble  protection  to  turnips  against  the  ravages 
of  the  fly.  It  should  be  apphed  as  soon  as  the  turnips 
come  up,  and  in  tlie  same  daily  rotation  in  which  they 
were  sown.  The  lime  should  be  slacked  immediately 
before  it  is  used;  if  the  air  be  not  sufficiently  moist  to 
render  that  operation  unnecessarj'. 


TO    PRESERVE    GTRAIN    FROM    VERMIN. 

To  preserve  rye,  and  secure  it  from  insects  and  rats, 
nothing  more  is  necessary  than  not  to  winnow  it  after 
it  is  threshed,  and  to  stow  it  in  the  granaries  mixed 
with  the  chatf.  In  this  state  it  lias  been  kept  for  more 
than  three  years  without  experiencing  the  smallest  al- 
teration, and  even  without  the  necessity  of  being  turn- 
ed, to  preserve  it  from  humidity  and  fermentation. — 
Rats  and  mice  may  be  prevented  from  entering  the 
barn,  by  putting  some  wild  vine  or  hedge  plants  upon 
the  heaps:  the  smell  of  this  wood  is  so  otTensive  to 
these  animals  that  they  will  not  approach  it. 


TO    DESTROY    SLUGS    ON    LAND. 

Procure  some  fresh  lime,  and  after  throwing  as  much 
water  upon  it  as  will  reduce  it  to  a  powder,  sow  the 
lime  in  a  hot  state  upon  the  land  that  is  overrun  with 
vermin,  at  the  rate  of  about  12  bushels  to  the  acre.  The 
lime  should  be  sown  towards  the  wind,  and  falling  upon 
them  in  a  fermented  state,  will  instantly  kill  them. 


DA3IAGED    HAY. 

In  the  year  1790,  which  ^tas  remarkable  for  the  quan- 
tity of  rain,  that  fell  during  the  hay  season,  the  farmers 
suffered  great  loss  from  the  thousands  of  heads  of  cattle 
which  perished  from  eating  damp  hay.  This  fact  ought 
to  put  farmers  on  the  guard  against  any  similar  effects 
at  the  present  time.  The  efficacy  of  salt  in  curing  hay 
is  now  almost  universally  known;  but  the  best  advice, 
perhaps,  v/hich  can  be  given,  is  to  be  careful  as  to  the 
(juantity  given. 


AGRICULTURE.  15 

TO    DESTROY    HOUSE-FLIES. 

These  troublesome  little  insects  may  be  effectually 
destroyed  without  the  use  of  poison. — Take  half  a 
spoonful  of  black  pepper  in  powder,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  brown  sugar,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  cream;  mix 
them  well  together,  and  place  them  in  the  room  on  a 
plate,  where  the  flies  are  troublesome,  and  they  will 
soon  disappear. 


REMEDY   AGAINST    BAD   WATER. 

A  highly  respectable  gentleman  in  Connecticut,  who 
used  to  visit  Ohio  yearly,  gave  me  the  following  prescrip- 
tion. Being  from  early  life  a  water  drinker,  he  applied 
to  the  late  Dr.  Osborn,  of  Middletown,  to  give  him  a 
substitute.  The  doctor  told  him  to  furnish  himself  with 
a  mixture,  of  equal  proportions,  of  pulverised  sugar  and 
ginger,  and  whenever  he  drank  the  bad  water  of  the 
west,  to  put  in  as  much  of  the  composition  as  suited  his 
taste,  and  he  need  never  apprehend  bad  effects  from  a 
free  use  of  the  water. 


PRESERVATION    OF    SEEDS. 

M.  D'Arget  has  preserved  corn,  which  had  been  in- 
fested by  weevils,  for  a  considerable  time  by  putting  it 
into  vessels,  previously  filled  with  sulphurous  acid.  All 
the  weevils  perished,  and  the  corn  ceased  to  suffer.  In 
this  manner  insects  in  seeds  may  not  only  be  destroyed, 
but  their  presence  prevented.  As  it  might  be  inconve- 
nient to  burn  sulphur  in  the  vessels  to  be  filled  with 
sulphurous  acid,  we  will  state  another  method  of  re- 
placing the  acid,  and  obtaining  the  same  results.  All 
that  is  necessary  is,  to  powder  the  seeds  well  with  flour 
of  sulphur,  before  they  are  put  into  the  bottles  or  other 
vessels;  or  after  having  put  the  seeds  into  a  bottle  the 
sulphur  may  be  added,  and  the  whole  well  shaken  to- 
gether, so  as  to  bring  it  in  contact  with  all  the  seeds. 
The  presence  of  the  sulphur  will  prevent  entirely  the 
attacks  of  the  insects. 


16  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

SIMPLE    METHOD    OV    DESTROYING    THE    HESSIAN    FLY. 

The  Hessian  Flj  deposits  its  eggs  on  the  wheat  ear 
before  it  is  reaped;  the  egg  is  so  small  as  to  be  invisible 
to  the  naked  eye,  bat  may  be  distinctly  seen  with  a 
microscope;  sometimes  one  grain  of  wheat  will  be  ob- 
served to  liavc  several  of  these  eggs  on  it.  They  are 
attached  to  the  wheat  by  a  glutinous  substance,  de- 
posited around  them  by  the  parent  lly,  by  which  they 
arc  held  so  firmly  on  the  surface,  as  not  to  be  easily 
removed  hy  the  motion  of  reaping,  threshing,  &c. 
Shortly  after  the  seeds  begin  to  germinate  in  the  soil, 
the  genial  heat  of  the  season  brings  the  young  dy  from 
its  egg  in  the  form  of  a  very  small  maggot  (as  is  the  case 
with  all  insects;)  these  little  maggots  deposit  themselves 
at  the  root  of  the  stalk,  to  the  seed  of  which  the  eggs 
had  been  attached,  between  the  stem  and  the  lowest 
blade  or  leaf,  where  they  may  be  discovered  during  the 
month  of  j\Iay  and  beginning  of  June  quietly  reposing: 
here  they  remain  until  tlie  warmth  of  the  season  brings 
them  to  maturity,  v/hen  they  commence  eating  the  sub- 
stance to  which  they  are  attached.  It  is  not  until  this 
period  that  tlieir  destructive  effects  arc  visible,  by  the 
wheat  becomins:  withered  and  bli2;hted.  This  accounts 
for  the  fact  that  wheat,  which  is  attacked  by  these  de- 
structive insects,  presents  a  healthy  appearance  in  the 
month  of  June,  the  period  at  which  the  embryo-fly 
begins  to  use  food. 

Now  it  is  evident  that  if  the  eggs  of  this  fly  can  be 
destroyed  on  the  seed  vv^heat,  by  any  process  that  will 
not  also  destroy  the  vegetative  quality  of  the  grain,  the 
ruinous  effects  will  be  avoided. — This  can  be  done  by 
the  following  very  simple  process.  "Soak  the  seed 
wheat  in  water  for  twelve  hours;  spread  it  out  on  the 
barn  floor,  so  as  to  allow  the  superabundant  water  to 
escape:  then  take  fresh  slacked  lime  and  mix  it  among 
the  wheat  in  quantity  suflicient  to  have  every  grain  co- 
vered with  the  lime,  taking  care  to  stir  the  wheat  well 
with  a  shovel,  so  that  no  particle  may  escape  coming  in 
full  contact  with  the  lime,  which,  when  thus  applied, 
will  in  a  short  time  destroy  the  eggs,  and  consequently 
preserve  the  grain  from  destruction." 


AGRICULTURE.  17 

The  egg^  which  before  the  appUcation  of  the  Ume  ap- 
pears clear  and  transparent,  afterwards  becomes  opaque, 
and  puts  on  the  appearance  of  an  addled  egg.  The 
efficacy  of  the  above  remedy  has  been  established  b}' 
several  experiments,  one  of  whicii  we  here  relate. 
Wheat  supposed  to  be  infested  by  the  Hessian  flj', 
was  taken,  one  half  of  the  quantity  treated  vfitli  lime, 
and  the  other  half  was  sown  in  the  same  soil  with  the 
prepared,  in  alternate  drills;  the  result  was  that  every 
stalk  from  the  prepared  seed  came  to  maturity  and 
was  productive,  whilst  the  alternate  drills  which  had 
been  sown  with  unprepared  seed,  were  almost  totally 
destroyed. 

The  above  remedy  for  so  serious  an  evil  cannot  be 
too  widely  circulated. 


TO    KEEP    BEEF. 

A  country  housekeeper,  to  whom  a  sirloin  or  a  steak 
is  not  an  every  day  treat,  has  been  taught,  by  necessity, 
hozo  to  keep  beef;  an  art  unknown  in  towns,  where  daily 
access  can  be  had  to  markets;  but  it  is  a  most  valuable 
secret,  equal  to  that  of  keeping  venison,  so  highly  prized 
by  the  quins  and  aldermen  of  England ;  and  I  here  pro- 
pose, without  the  prospect  of  any  other  reward  than  the 
hope  of  an  honest  fame,  to  communicate  it  to  the  Ame- 
rican public. 

Beef  is  never  fit  to  be  eaten  in  steaks  until  a  week 
after  being  killed.  If  a  piece  of  beef  is  suspended  by 
a  hook  and  string  in  a  dry  cellar,  so  as  not  to  touch  the 
wall,  it  will,  in  our  hot  climate,  in  the  hottest  season  of 
summer,  keep  from  one  to  two  weeks  without  a  particle 
of  salt;  and  in  winter  it  will  keep  from  eight  to  ten 
weeks.  I  have  this  winter  kept  it  two  months,  with  a 
constant  and  great  improvement  to  the  last,  and  have 
no  doubt  I  might,  with  increasing  benefit,  have  kept  it 
for  a  month  longer.  No  one,  without  the  proof,  can 
believe  how  astonishingly  it  will  improve  in  tenderness 
and  flavor  after  being  kept  a  due  length  of  time,  and  it 
doubtless  is  much  more  wholesome  tlian  rank,  tough 
beef,  that  is  laboriously  masticated  to  become  a  cause 

b2 


18  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

of  dyspepsia  in  some  and  bilious  fevers  in  others,  as  the 
town  doctors  assure  us.  I  beg  to  recommend  this  kee- 
ping of  beef  to  all  house-keepers  in  town  and  coun- 
try, satisfied  that  after  one  fair  trial,  they  would  no 
more  feed  on  a  recently  slaughtered  ox  than  they  would 
on  an  Abyssinian  steak  with  CafFrarian  garnishments. 

P.  S.  Freezing  meat,  (a  practice  not  advised)  pre- 
serves it  in  one  state  without  much  improvement. 


TO  MAKE  OLD  FEATHERS  BETTER  THAN  NEW . 

If  the  feathers  of  old  beds  have  become  dirty,  mat- 
ted, or  have  lost  their  elasticity,  by  age  or  use,  they 
should  be  emptied  into  a  hogshead  and  washed  in  warm 
soap  suds,  agitated  by  means  of  a  rake  or  garden  hoe, 
and  afterwards  rinsed  in  clear  water.  They  are  then 
to  be  pressed  dry  by  the  hand,  and  put  upon  the  floor 
of  an  empty  well  lighted  room,  and  now  and  then  whip- 
ped and  stirred  up;  and  when  thoroughly  dry  put  again 
nto  ticks.  They  will  be  found  after  this  hctter  than  new 
feathers;  because  deprived  of  the  oil  which  abounds  in 
the  latter. 


TO    DESTROY    WEEDS. 


If  you  have  not  had  time  to  root  out  all  the  weeds  on 
your  premises,  you  will  at  least  endeavour  to  prevent 
their  going  to  seed  by  cutting  otT  the  tops  with  a  scythe 
or  sickle,  and  it  will  be  good  economy  to  lodge  the  pro- 
ceeds of  your  cuttings  in  your  barn  yard,  or  compost 
bed.  An  antidote  to  the  increase  of  weeds  may  be 
found  in  burning  the  stubble  as  it  stands  after  reaping. 
On  land  that  is  designed  to  be  sown  the  next  year,  this 
is  more  especially  good  husbandry;  for  it  will  destroy 
so  many  of  the  seeds  of  weeds,  as  to  prevent  the  ensu- 
ing crop  from  being  so  weedy  as  it  might  otherwise  be. 
At  the  same  time  this  process  will  destroy  many  insects, 
clean  the  ground,  and  render  it  fit  for  the  operations  of 
tillage,  besides  fertilizing  the  soil  by  the  ashes  of  the 
bubble. 


AGRICULTURE.  19 

PREVENTION    OF    MILDEW    ON    PEACH    TREES. 

The  following  preventive  of  the  mildew  on  Peach  and 
Nectarine  trees  has  simplicity,  as  well  as  the  experience 
of  many  years,  to  recommend  it: — Take  of  sulphur  and 
rain  or  river  water,  in  proportions  of  two  ounces  of  sul- 
phur to  every  four  gallons  of  water.  Put  the  quantity 
which  may  be  required  into  a  copper  or  boiler,  and  let 
it  (after  it  com.mences" boiling)  boil  for  half  an  hour: 
after  which  it  may  be  taken  out,  or  suffered  to  remain 
until  it  becomes  of  a  tepid  state,  when  it  ought  to  be 
applied  to  the  trees  by  means  of  the  garden  engine  or 
syringe,  as  in  a  common  washing  with  water.  The 
time  for  applying  it  is  annually,  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  set 
and  considered  out  of  danger. 


SAYINGS    FOR    FARMERS. 

Sloth,  like  rust,  consumes  faster  than  labour  wears, 
whilst  the  used  key  is  always  bright.  Dost  thou  love 
life?  Then  do  not  squander  time^  for  that  is  the  stuff 
life  is  made  of.  The  sleeping  fox  catches  no  poultry. 
He  that  rises  late  must  trot  all  day,  and  shall  scarce 
overtake  his  business  at  night. 

Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise, 

Makes  a  man  healthy,  and  wealthy,  and  wise. 

He  that  lives  upon  hope  will  die  fainting — industry 
need  not  wish.  There  are  no  gains  without  pains.  At 
the  working  man's  house  hunger  looks  in,  but  never 
enters.  Plough  deep,  while  sluggards  sleep,  aiid  you 
shall  have  corn  to  sell  or  to  keep.  One  to-day  is  worth 
two  to-morrows.  Handle  your  tools  without  mittens — a 
cat  in  gloves  catches  no  mice. 

He  that  by  the  plough  would  thrive, 
Himself  must  either  hold  or  drive. 

The  eye  of  a  master  will  do  more  work  than  both  his 
hands.  Not  to  oversee  your  workmen  is  to  leave  them 
your  purse  open.  A  little  neglect  may  breed  a  great 
mischief — for  want  of  a  nail  the  shoe  was  lost,  and  for 
want  of  a  horse  the  rider  was  lost.  A  fat  kitchen  makes 
a  lean  will.  If  you  would  be  rich,  think  of  saving 
as  well  as  getting.     What  maintains  one  vice  would 


20  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

bring  up  two  children.  Beware  of  little  expenses — a 
small  leak  will  sink  a  great  ship.  If  you  would  know 
the  want  of  money,  go  and  try  to  borrow  some — for  he 
that  goes  a  borrowing  goes  a  sorrowing.  Pride  is  as 
loud  a  beggar  as  want,  and  a  great  deal  more  saucy. 
Pride  breakfasted  with  plenty,  dined  with  poverty,  and 
supped  with  infamy.  Lying  rides  on  debt's  back.  It 
is  hard  for  an  empty  bag  to  stand  upright.  Creditors 
have  better  memories  than  debtors. 

For  age  and  want  save  what  you  may, 
No  morning's  sun  lasts  the  whole  day. 

Rather  go  to  bed  supperless  than  rise  in  debt.  If  you 
do  not  hear  reason,  she  will  surely  rap  your  knuckles. 
He  that  hath  a  trade  hath  an  estate;  and  he  that  hath  a 
calling  hath  a  place  of  profit  and  honor.  A  ploughman 
on  his  legs  is  higher  than  a  gentleman  on  his  knees. 


ECONOMICAL  WAY  TO  FATTEN  HOGS. 

I  have  thrown  by  my  steamer  for  hog  food  and  substi- 
tuted a  boiler,  and  I  think  with  manifest  advantage. 
The  former  consisted  of  a  60  gallon  cask,  over  a  potash 
kettle,  badly  set.  I  could  only  work  off  four  or  live 
casks  a  day,  with  great  labor  and  trouble,  and  the  appa- 
ratus required  to  be  luted  with  clay  at  every  operation. 
With  my  new  kettle,  holding  30  gallons,  which  is  a  thin 
beautiful  casting,  I  have  cooked  eight  and  nine  barrels 
in  half  a  day,  and  much  better  than  by  the  steam  process. 
This  food  consists  of  small  refuse  potatoes,  of  which  I 
have  nearly  100  bushels,  or  15  per  cent,  of  my  whole 
crop,  pumpkins,  and  a  small  quantity  of  Indian  meal. 
A  half  day's  boiling  serves  my  hog  family  four  or  five 
days;  and  it  is  always  kept  prepared  in  advance.  The 
actual  expense  of  fattening  hogs  thus  upon  the  refuse 
of  the  farm  crop,  is  50  to  75  per  cent,  less  than  feeding 
with  dry  corn. 

The  economy  of  my  apparatus  consists  much  in  set- 
ting the  boiler  so  as  to  have  all  the  advantage  of  the  fire. 
The  interior  brick  work  is  made  to  conform  to  tlie  shape 
of  the  boiler,  leaving  an  interval  of  four  to  six  inches 
between  them  for  the  fire,  round  the  whole  exterior  of 


AGRICULTURE.  21 

the  kettle,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  inches  at  top, 
where  the  flange  or  rim  rests  upon  the  projecting  hrick. 
Thus  the  hoiler  is  not  only  encompassed  by  the  flame, 
but  the  heat  is  augmented  by  radiation  from  the  brick 
work.  The  fuel  is  burnt  on  a  grate,  which  extends 
nearly  to  the  kettle,  four  or  five  inches  above  the  level 
of  its  bottom.  My  boiler  being  in  operation  while  I  am 
penning  these  remarks,  I  have  ascertained  that  a  kettle 
of  potatoes,  with  three  pails  of  cold  water,  covered  vnth 
boards,  has  been  completely  boiled  in  18  minutes  from 
the  time  they  were  put  in,  another  boiling  having  been 
just  previously  taken  out.  My  kettle  was  set  by  a  son 
in  his -teens,  without  assistance,  and  was  his  first  effort 
in  masonry.  J.  Buel. 

Alhayiy  JVursery^  Oct.  20,  1831. 


TO  MAKE  HAY  ON  THE  MOST  APPROVED  PLAN. 

The  first  thing  to  be  considered  about  hay-making,  is 
the  time  of  cutting  the  grass.  It  should  not  be  cut  too 
early,  or  before  it  has  got  its  growth,  for  this  will  cause 
it  to  shrink  too  much  in  drying.  On  the  contrary,  it 
should  not  stand  too  late,  or  till  the  seed  be  quite  ripe. 
It  is  not  only  harder  to  cut,  but  the  ripeness  of  the  seed 
will  cause  it  to  shatter  out  while  drying,  which  will  be 
a  considerable  loss,  as  the  seed  is  the  most  rich  and  nour- 
ishing part;  and  the  soil  will  be  the  more  exhausted  by 
nourishing  the  seed  till  it  come  to  maturity,  and  the 
next  succeeding  crop  will  be  poorer.  There  never  can 
be  any  advantage  in  mowing  late,  unless  in  thickening 
the  grass  roots,  by  scattering  some  of  the  seed,  Avhere 
they  were  before  too  thin.  He  that  mows  early  has  the 
advantage  of  longer  days  for  drying  his  hay;  and  of 
shorter  nights,  when  the  dews  are  less  detrimental  to 
hay-making. 

But  the  farmer  who  has  many  acres  of  the  same  kind 
of  grass  cannot  always  expect  to  cut  the  whole  of  it  in 
exactly  the  right  season.  That  he  may  approach  as 
near  to  right  as  possible,  he  should  cut  the  thickest 
grass  first  of  all;  especially  if  it  be  in  danger  of  lodg- 
ing, or  so  thick  that  the  lowest  leaves  perish,  or  the 


23  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

bottoms  of  the  stalks  turn  yellow.  The  thinnest  of  his 
grass  should  he  cut  next,  which  is  apt  to  he  ripe  soonest: 
and  last  of  all  the  middling  sized  grass,  or  that  which 
is  on  a  medium  hetween  thick  and  thin. 

Where  a  second  crop  is  expected  the  same  year, 
thick  grass  should  be  cut  a  little  the  earlier,  that  the 
roots  may  not  be  injured  so  much  as  to  prevent  their 
speedy  recovery,  by  being  closely  covered  too  long  by 
the  first  crop. 

Some  regard  should  be  had  to  the  weather,  when 
the  time  of  cutting  is  in  contemplation.  Those,  espe- 
cially, should  regard  it,  who  are  able  to  call  in  as  much 
assistance  as  they  please  in  hay-making. 

Grass,  which  has  not  been  washed  by  rain  for  several 
days,  has  a  kind  of  gum  on  it,  which  is  known  by  its  ad- 
hering to  the  scythe.  This  gum  is  thouglit  to  be  a 
benefit  to  the  hay;  and  the  farmers  are  fond  of  mowing 
their  grass  when  this  gum  appears,  rather  than  just 
after  the  grass  has  been  a^  ashed  by  rain. 

As  to  the  drying  of  liay,  or  the  manner  of  making  it, 
I  know  there  are  a  variety  of  opinions.  The  right  way 
is  to  do  it  in  such  a  manner  that  as  much  of  the  sap  as 
possible  may  be  retained,  and  in  the  best  state  that  is 
possible.  In  this  I  should  think  all  would  agree.  All 
persons  will  allow  that  too  much  drying  is  hurtful.  It 
is  certainly  a  loss  to  rake  it  or  stir  it  at  all,  when  it  is  so 
dry  that  the  leaves  Avill  crumble.  And  doubtless  as 
much  of  the  sap  should  be  retained  as  is  consistent  with 
its  being  kept  in  good  order  for  fodder,  and  for  long 
keeping. 

Some  grasses  will  do  well  with  less  drying  than  is 
needful  for  others.  The  Rhode-Island  bent,  as  it  is 
called,  or  red-top  grass,  will  do  with  less  drying  than 
some  other  grasses.  It  has  iDcen  much  practised  to  put 
up  with  so  little  dryness  that  it  heats  in  the  mow  to  so 
great  a  degree,  as  to  make  it  turn  brown  like  tobacco; 
and  it  is  known  that  cattle  will  eat  it  well,  and  thrive 
on  it.  But  the  mow  will  certainly  send  out  part  of  the 
virtue  of  the  hay  in  steams.  I  cannot  but  think  that 
all  grasses  should  be  so  much  dried,  that  the  mows  and 
stacks  though  they  have   a  degree  of  heat,  should  not 


AGraCULTURE.  23 

emit  any  sensible  steam ;  and  I  would  not  wish  to  have 
liay  made  brown  by  mow-burning.  It  surely  does  not 
appear  to  so  good  advantage  at  market. 

Were  it  not  for  the  labor  and  cost,  a  good  way  of 
hay-making  would  be,  for  the  hay-makers  to  follow  at 
the  heels  of  the  mov/ers,  at  least,  as  soon  as  the  dew  is 
olF,  and  spread  the  swarths  evenly;  turn  the  grass  about 
the  middle  of  the  same  day;  make  it  up  into  cocks  be- 
fore night;  open  the  hay  and  turn  it  the  next  day;  and 
so  on  till  it  be  sufficiently  dried,  doubling  the  cocks  if 
signs  of  rain  appear.  It  will  not  commonly  take  more 
than  two  or  three  days  to  dry  it,  unless  it  be  very  green, 
or  uncommonly  thick  and  rank.  A  person  who  has  but 
little  hay  to  meike,  need  not  be  much  blamed,  if  he  do 
it  in  this  way;  especially  if  the  weather  do  not  appear 
to  be  settled. 

The  practice  of  the  best  English,  Flemish,  and 
French  farmers,  is  to  expose  the  hay  as  little  as  possible 
to  the  sun.  It  is  carried  in  dry,  but  it  preserves  its 
green  color;  and  you  see  hay  two  or  three  }ears  old  in 
their  market,  of  so  bright  a  green  color,  that  we  would 
scarcely  conceive  it  to  be  cured.  Yet  they  are  in  the 
practice  of  preserving  it  for  years,  and  value  it  more 
for  its  age.  If  such  a  course  be  best  in  climates  so 
cool  and  cloudy,  how  much  more  important  would  it  be 
under  our  scorching  summer  suns? 

But  if  the  weather  be  unsettled,  or  if  showers  be 
frequent,  it  may  be  better  to  spread  grass  well,  as  soon 
as  it  is  mowed,  stir  it  often,  cock  it  the  same  day  it  is 
mowed,  open  it  in  the  next  fair  day  when  the  dew  is  off, 
let  it  sweat  a  little  in  cock,  and  house  it  as  soon  as  it  is 
dry  enough.  It  will  bear  to  be  laid  greener  on  a  scaf- 
fold, than  in  a  ground  mow;  and  in  a  narrow  mow 
greener  than  in  a  broad  one.  And  that  which  is  at 
least  of  all  made,  should  be  put  upon  a  scaffold. 


SIMPLE    MEANS    OF    PURIFYING    WATER. 

It  is  not  so  generally  known  as  it  ought  to  be,  that 
pounded  alum  possesses  the  property  of  purifying  water. 
A  large  spoonful  of  pulverized  alum,  sprinkled  into  a 


24  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

hogshead  of  water,(the  v>^ater  stirred  round  at  the  (ime,) 
will,  after  the  lapse  of  a  few  hours,  by  precipitating  to 
the  bottom  the  impure  particles,  so  purify  it,  that  it  will 
be  found  to  possess  nearly  ail  the  freshness  and  clear- 
ness of  the  finest  spring  water.  A  pailful,  containing 
four  gallons,  may  be  purified  with  a  single  tea  spoonful. 


TO    CHOOSE    THE    BEST    AGRICULTURAL    IjIPLEMEXTS. 

The  variety  and  excellence  of  agricultural  implements 
is  so  great  that  the  prudent  farmer  in  regard  to  that,  as 
well  as  in  every  other  branch  of  his  art,  must  study  eco- 
nomy. He  should  not  incur  an  unnecessary  expense  in 
buying  them,  nor  in  purchasing  more  than  are  essenticflly 
requisite,  and  can  be  profitably  used.  This  maxim 
ought  to  be  more  especially  attended  to  by  young  impro- 
vers, who  are  often  tempted,  under  the  specious  idea  of 
diminishing  labour,  and  saving  expense,  to  buy  a  super- 
fluous quantity  of  implements,  v/hich  they  afterwerds 
find  are  of  little  use.  It  is  remarked  by  an  intelligent 
author  on  matters  of  husbandry,  that  a  great  diversity 
of  implements,  causes  disappointment,  ratiier  than  satis- 
faction to  the  farmer. 

In  purchasing  implements  the  following  rules  are  to 
be  observed; — they  should  be  simple  in  their  construc- 
tion, both  that  their  uses  may  be  more  easily  understood, 
and  that  any  common  workman  may  be  able  to  repair 
them,  when  they  get  out  of  order;  the  materials  should 
be  of  a  durable  nature,  that  the  labour  may  be  less  lia- 
ble to  interruption  from  their  accidental  failure;  their 
form  should  be  firm  and  compact,  that  they  may  not  be 
injured  by  jolts  and  shaking;  and  that  they  may  be  the 
more  safely  worked  by  country  labourers,  who  are  but 
little  accustomed  to  the  use  of  delicate  tools.  In  larger 
machines,  sj'mmetry,  and  lightness  of  shape,  ought  to  be 
particularly  attended  to:  for  a  heavy  carriage,  like  a 
great  horse,  is  worn  out  by  its  own  weight,  nearly  as 
much  as  by  what  he  carries.  The  wood  should  be  cut 
up  and  placed  in  a  position  the  best  calculated  to  resist 
pressure;  and  mortices,  so  likely  to  weaken  the  wood, 
should,  as  much  as  possible,  be  avoided;  at  the  same 


AGRICULTURE.  25 

time,  implements  should  be  made  as  light  as  is  consistent 
with  the  strength  that  is  necessary.  The  price  should  be 
such,  that  farmers  in  moderate  circumstances  can  afford 
to  buy  them;  yet  for  the  sake  of  a  low  price,  the  judi- 
cious farmer  will  not  purchase  articles,  either  of  a  flims}^ 
fabric,  or  a  faulty  form;  and  implements  ought  to  be 
suited  to  the  nature  of  the  country,  whether  hilly  or 
level,  and  more  especially  to  the  quality  of  the  soil;  for 
those  which  are  calculated  for  light  land,  will  not  answer 
equally  well  in  soils  that  are  heavy  and  adhesive. 


A    RECIPE    TO    PREVENT    BOOTS    AND    SHOES    FROM 
TAKING    W^ATER. 

Take  Seneca  oil  and  gum  elastic ;  one  ounce  of  the 
latter  to  be  cut  into  thin  shreds  and  dissolved  in  a  pint 
of  the  former,  and  when  dissolved,  which  will  be  in  a 
few  days,  the  boots  are  to  be  completely  saturated  or 
charged  with  the  mixture.  The  manner  of  preparing 
the  boot  is  as  follows :  Take  a  sponge,  and  rub  the  mix- 
ture in  until  the  leather  will  absorb  no  more  of  it;  the 
boots  are  then  laid  by  for  a  day  or  two,  when  the  pro- 
cess is  repeated.  The  soles  as  well  as  the  uppers  are 
to  be  thus  rubbed,  and  the  operation  is  to  be  performed 
either  before  a  fire  or  in  the  sun. 


MISCELLANEOUS    SHORT    RECEIPTS. 

Enjoyment  is  not  found  so  much  in  luxurious  as  in 
simple  dishes.  Fried  apples  are  better  and  more  whole- 
some than  expensive  preserves. 

Tortoise  shell  and  horn  combs  last  much  longer  for 
having  oil  rubbed  into  them  once  and  a  while. 

A  large  stone,  put  into  the  middle  of  a  barrel  of  meal, 
is  a  good  thing  to  keep  it  cool. 

Lamps  will  have  a  less  disagreeable  smell,  if  you  dip 
your  wick-yarn  in  strong  hot  vinegar,  and  dry  it. 

New-England  rum,  constantly  used  to  wash  the  hair, 
keeps  it  very  clean,  and  free  from  disease,  and  promotes 
its  growth  a  great  deal  more  than  the  Macassar  oil. 
Brandy  is  very  strengthening  to  the  roots  of  the  hair; 

C 


26  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

but  it  has  a  hot,  drying  tendency,  which  New-Jhin^ia* 
rum  has  not. 

Woollens  should  be  washed  in  very  hot  suds,  and  not 
rinsed.     Lukewarm  water  shrinks  them. 

Suet  and  lard  keep  better  in  tin  than  in  earthen. 
Suet  keeps  good  all  the  year  round,  if  chopped  and 
packed  down  in  a  stone  jar,  covered  with  molasses. 

Legs  of  mutton  are  very  good,  cured  in  the  same  way 
as  ham.  Six  pounds  of  salt,  eight  ounces  of  salt-petre, 
and  five  pints  of  molasses,  will  make  pickle  enough  for 
one  hundred  weight.  Small  legs  should  be  kept  in 
pickle  twelve  or  fifteen  days:  if  large,  four  or  five  weeks 
are  not  too  much.  They  should  be  hung  up  a  day  or 
two  to  dry  before  they  are  smoked. 

A  pailful  of  ley,  with  a  piece  of  copperas  half  as  big 
as  a  hen's  eg^  boiled  in  it,  will  color  a  fine  nankin  color, 
which  will  never  wash  out.  This  is  very  useful  for  the 
linings  of  bed-quilts,  comforters,  &c. 


THE  WAY  TO  W  EALTH. 

The  way  to  wealth,  is  as  plain  as  the  way  to  market. 
It  depends  chiefly  on  two  words,  industry/  and  frugality; 
that  is,  waste  neither  time  nor  money ^  but  make  the  best 
use  of  both. 

He  that  would  be  rich  with  the  least  labour  must 
have  few  wants:  for  he  that  has  little,  and  wants  less, 
is  richer  than  he  that  has  much  and  wants  more.  A  tub 
was  large  enough  for  Diogenes,  and  a  world  too  little 
for  Alexander. 

We  are  ruined,  not  by  what  we  .  eally  want,  but  by 
what  we  think  we  want.  Never  go  abroad  in  search 
of  wants;  if  they  be  real  wants,  they  will  come  in  search 
of  you.  He  that  buys  what  he  does  not  want,  will  soon 
want  what  he  cannot  buy. 


METHOD  OF   PRESERVING    TOMATOES." 

The  boiling  required  for  the  preservation  of  fruits, 
always  changes  their  quality,  and  sometimes  entirely 
alters  their  character;  and  it  often  happens,  when  the 
fruits  are  acid,  as  in  the  Tomato,  that  they  ihibibe  in 


AGRICULTURE.  27 

the  copper  vessels,  in  which  they  are  stewed  to  a  certain 
consistence,  metallic  principles,  which  are  injurious  to 
health.  This  doable  consideration  induces  us  to  pub- 
lish an  excellent  method  for  preserving  the  tomato, 
which  does  not  alter  the  quality  of  this  fruit,  and  does 
not  require  the  action  of  heat. 

A  sufficient  quantity  of  salt  is  dissolved  in  spring  or 
river  water  to  make  it  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg; 
select  perfectly  ripe  tomatoes,  and  place  them  v/ell,  and 
without  pressing  them,  in  a  stone  or  glazed  earthen  pot, 
which  is  to  be  filled  with  the  brine;  cover  the  pot  with 
a  deep  plate  in  such  a  manner  that  it  presses  upon  the 
fruit,  and  by  this  simple  process  tomatoes  may  be  pre- 
served more  than  a  year  without  attention.  Before 
cooking  them  they  should  be  soaked  in  fresh  water,  for 
several  hours. 


TO    LAY    DOWN    GRASS    LANDS. 

It  is  admitted  on  all  hands  that  one  of  the  most  diffi- 
cult parts  of  the  farmer's  duty  is  'laying  down'  regularly 
and  successfully  grass  lands.  John  H.  Powel,  an  intelli- 
gent and  experienced  Farmer  of  Pennsylvania,  says,  that 
in  this  country  there  is  not  usually  more  than  half  the 
quantity  of  seed  sown  that  should  be  to  insure  success — 
that  from  experience  he  has  found  that  three  half  pecks 
of  clover  seed  mixed  with  two  bushels  of  orchard  grass 
seed  is  in  no  instance  too  much  to  sow  on  an  acre  of  land 
— that  by  putting  in  this  quantity,  by  light  harrowing 
and  rolling  of  the  ground,  if  the  weather  and  soil  be  in 
a  proper  state,  immediately  after  sowing,  will  secure  its 
vegetating  and  improve  the  grass.  Autumnal  top  dres- 
sing with  long  manure,  may  be  profitably  applied  to 
protect  young  clover,  particularly  if  it  has  been  pastu- 
red. A  double  advantage  is  obtained  by  using  abundant 
supplies  of  seed;  the  hay  is  finer,  and  of  course  more  nu- 
tritious, and  when  the  crop  is  taken  off,  the  soil  is  less 
exhausted  from  the  rays  of  a  hot  sun. 


TO    SELECT    SEED    CORN. 

A  farmer  informs  us  that,  having  often  read  accounts 
of  the  crop  of  corn  being  increased  by  selecting  seed 


28  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

from  stalks  having  two  or  more  cars,  he  was  induced  to 
trj  the  experiment.  He  has  selected  his  seed  corn  in 
this  way  for  three  years  past,  and  the  result  has  exceed- 
ed his  expectation.  He  states  that  it  is  not  uncommon 
to  find  in  his  cornfield,  'stalks  with  three,  four,  five,  and 
sometimes  six  cars,  and  three  of  them  fair,  full-grown, 
and  fit  for  seed,  and  that  too  in  hills  containing  four  or 
live  stalks.'  He  says,  'I  think  my  crop  has  been  in- 
creased several  bushels  this  year  by  the  experiment.  I 
vrould  suggest  a  mode  of  selecting  seed  to  those  who 
do  not  cut  up  the  corn  at  the  roots.  Vv^hen  they  are 
picking  corn,  and  find  a  stalk  with  two  or  more  ears, 
let  them  tie  the  husks  together,  and  the  ears  will  be 
easily  known  at  husking.' 


STOCK    TO    SELECT. 

The  word  stocky  in  this  country,  is  commonly  used  by 
farmers  to  express  only  live  stock,  or  tiie  beasts  that  are 
kept  upon  a  farm.  These  should  not  be  all  of  one 
kind,  but  such  an  assortment  as  is  best  adapted  to  the 
convenience  and  profit  of  the  farmer.  The  stock 
sliould  be  adapted  to  the  nature  and  circumstances  of 
tlie  farm. 

Young  stock,  in  general,  is  better  than  old.  The 
more  there  are  in  a  growing  state,  the  greater  is  the 
profit.  And  very  old  cattle,  when  turned  oflf  to  fat,  do 
not  answer  so  well  as  those  which  are  but  little  past 
their  prime,  or  full  vigour.  It  costs  more  to  fatten  them, 
and  the  meat  is  not  so  valuable. 

It  is  best  to  begin  with  a  considerable  variety  of  ani- 
mals; that  the  farmer,  by  observing  the  profit  he  gets 
from  each  kind,  may  afterwards  vary,  as  he  finds  to  be 
best.  For  tliis  cannot  be  determined,  but  by  some  ex- 
perience: Because  some  animals  prosper  l3est  on  one 
farm,  and  some  on  another;  some  best  under  one  mana- 
ger, and  some  under  another. 

A  variety  indeed,  for  other  reasons,  is  always  best: 
One  is,  because  almost  "every  farm  produces  a  variety 
of  food,  some  of  which  will  answer  best  for  one  animal, 
and  some  for  anotlier.     Even  in  the  same  pasture,  that 


AGRICULTURE.  29 

which  one  species  of  animals  leave,  another  will  feed 
upon. 

Also,  the  stock  should  vary,  in  some  proportion  as  the 
lands  of  a  farm  do.  As  some  farms  contain  a  large 
proportion  of  high  and  dry  pasture  grounds,  the  greater 
quantity  of  sheep  should  be  kept.  Where  low  meadow 
abounds,  the  kind  of  stock  should  be  increased,  which 
will  do  best  on  coarse  water-grasses;  which  is  well 
known  to  be  neat  cattle,  that  are  young  and  growing. 
But  if  a  farm  yield  a  plenty  of  good  sweet  grass,  it  is 
the  more  suitable  for  a  dairy  farm,  and  the  greater 
proportion  of  cows  ought  to  be  kept. 

But  on  no  farm  should  horses  be  multiplied  beyond 
the  number  which  are  needed,  or  which  can  be  em- 
ployed to  advantage.  For  they  are  great  eaters,  and 
require  the  best  of  the  fodder  and  pasture.  A  small 
farmer  can  scarcely  afford  to  keep  one,  unless  he  puts 
him  to  the  draught. 

Let  a  farm  be  what  it  will,  it  should  never  be  over- 
stocked. This  is  an  error  that  too  many  farmers  in  this 
country  are  guilty  of.  Doubtless  it  arises  from  a  cove- 
tous disposition;  but  they  sadly  miss  their  aim.  Instead 
of  gaining,  they  lose  by  it.  A  half  starved  stock  can 
never  be  profitable. 

A  farm  may  be  said  with  truth  to  be  overstocked, 
when  a  greater  number  of  animals  are  kept,  than  can 
be  well  fed  with  its  produce,  during  the  whole  year. 
For  it  is  a  ruinous  practice,  to  suffer  a  beast  to  pine 
away,  and  lose,  in  one  part  of  the  year,  the  flesh  he 
gains  in  another.  And  when  the  farmer  is  constrained 
to  purchase  food  for  his  stock,  he  too  often  affords  them 
but  a  scanty  allowance.  Sometimes,  it  is  not  in  his 
power  to  obtain  it. 

The  starvation  of  cattle,  or  keeping  them  too  short 
of  food,  not  only  prevents  their  being  profitable  to  the 
owner,  but  teaches  them  to  be  disorderly,  and  to  break 
through,  or  leap  over  fences ;  and  many  times  to  become 
absolutely  ungovernable;  so  that  they  must  either  be 
killed,  or  sold  off  at  a  low  price;  in  either  of  which 
cases,  there  is  often  much  inconvenience  and  loss. 

c2 


30  FA?fnLY  RECEIPTS. 

It  is  far  better  that  some  of  the  stock  of  food  should 
he  left  in  the  spring,  than  that  it  should  fall  short.  It 
is  a  good  reserve  against  a  season  of  scarcity:  And  such 
seasons  often  happen  in  this  country  by  drought. 

The  following  general  rules,  as  to  the  management  of 
stock  may  deserve  attention. 

'•1.  Animals  intended  for  the  butcher,  should  be  kept 
in  a  state  of  regular  improvement.  The  finer  breeds 
are  highly  fed  from  their  birth,  and  are  almost  always 
fat.  With  other  breeds,  and  on  pastures  of  inferior 
quality,  this  is  neither  necessary  nor  practicable.  But 
in  every  case  the  same  principle  of  improvemiCnt  should 
be  adhered  to,  and  such  animals  ought  never  to  be  al- 
lowed to  lose  flesh,  in  the  hopes  of  afterwards  restoring 
it  by  better  feeding. 

"2.  The  size  should  never  be  above  that  which  the 
pasture  can  support  in  a  thriving  condition.  The  at- 
tempt to  raise  them  to  an  undue  size,  by  crossing,  is  cen- 
surable. In  regard  to  size,  the  stock  of  every  kind, 
and  of  all  the  various  breeds,  should  be  proportioned 
to  the  quantity,  and  the  quality  of  their  intended  food. 

"3.  The  best  pasture  should  be  allotted  to  that  por- 
tion of  the  stock,  which  goes  first  to  market;  the  next 
in  quality  to  the  breeders;  and  the  coarse  pasture,  to 
the  inferior  or  growing  stock. 

"4.  Great  care  should  be  taken,  not  to  overstock  pas- 
ture, which  is  attended  with  great  loss  to  the  farmer,  and 
the  community.  This  ought  to  be  particularly  avoided 
in  young  and  growing  animals.  If  they  are  kept  poor 
during  one  part  of  the  year,  they  will  scarcely  thrive 
during  the  remainder;  and  whenever  ill  fed,  will  never 
attain  to  their  proper  size  and  proportion. 

"Lastly,  tlie  food,  whatever  it  may  be,  should  not  be 
too  suddenly  changed.  It  is  seldom  profitable  to  bring 
lean  animals  immediately  from  coarse  to  rich  pastures; 
and  a  change  from  dry,  to  succulent  food,  and  vice  versa, 
should  be  gradually  etfected.  A  change  of  pasture, 
liowever,  of  (he  same  quality,  tends  to  produce  a  greater 
accumulation  of  fat. 

The  following  observations  relative  to  the  size  and 
form  of  stock  are  by  Henry  Cline,  Esq.  an  English  Sur- 


AGRICULTURE.  31 

geon.  Thej  have  met  the  approbation  of  the  most 
eminent  agriculturists  both  in  America  and  Great 
Britain. 

"It  has  been  generally  understood  that  the  breed  of 
animals  is  improved  by  crossing  with  the  largest  males. 
This  opinion  has  done  much  mischief,  and  would  have 
done  more  if  it  had  not  been  counteracted  by  the  desire 
of  selecting  animals  of  the  best  forms  and  proportions, 
which  are  rarely  to  be  met  with  in  those  of  the  largest 
size.  Experience  has  proved  that  crossing  has  only  suc- 
ceeded in  an  eminent  degree  in  those  instances  in  which 
the  females  were  larger  than  in  the  usual  proportion  of 
the  females  to  the  males;  and  that  it  has  generally  failed 
when  the  males  were  disproportionally  large. 

The  external  form  of  domestic  animals  has  been  much 
studied,  and  the  proportions  are  well  ascertained.  But 
the  external  form  is  an  indication  of  the  internal 
structure.  The  principles  of  improving  it  must  there- 
fore be  found  on  a  knowledge  of  the  internal  parts. 

Of  these  the  lungs  are  of  the  first  importance.  It  is 
on  their  size  and  soundness  that  the  strength  and  health 
of  an  animal  principally  depend.  The  power  of  con- 
verting food  is  in  proportion  to  their  size.  An  animal 
with  large  lungs  is  capable  of  converting  a  given  quantity/ 
of  food  into  more  nourishment  than  one  with  smaller  lungs; 
and  therefore  has  a  greater  aptitude  to  fatten, 

''Chest.  The  size  and  form  of  the  chest  indicate  the 
size  of  the  lungs,  of  which  the  form  should  approach  to  the 
figure  of  a  cone  having  the  apex  situated  between  the 
shoulders,  and  its  base  towards  tlie  loins;  a  circular  form 
of  chest  is  preferable  to  one  deep  and  narrow;  for 
though  the  latter  may  have  greater  girth,  the  former 
will  have  greater  internal  space  in  proportion. 

"Head,  The  head  should  be  small,  by  which  the  birth 
is  facilitated  to  the  offspring,  it  also  indicates  the  ani- 
mal to  be  of  a  good  breed,  and  occasions  less  weight  of 
unprofitable  substance  to  the  consumer. 

"Horns  are  useless  to  domestic  animals,  and  occasion 
a  great  weight  of  bone  in  the  head.  The  skull  of  a  ram 
with  horns  weighed  five  times  as  much  as  that  of  one 
without  horns,  each  being  four  years  old.     A  mode  of 


32  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

breeding,  which  would  prevent  the  production  of  horns, 
would  therefore  afford  a  considerable  saving. 

"The  length  of  the  neck  should  be  proportioned  to 
the  height  of  the  animal,  that  it  may  collect  its  food 
with  ease. 

'^Muscles*  The  muscles  and  tendons,  which  are  their 
appendages,  should  be  large,  by  which  an  animal  is  ena- 
bled to  travel  with  greater  facility. 

''Bones,  The  strength  of  an  animal  does  not  depend 
on  the  size  of  the  bones,  but  on  that  of  the  muscles; 
many  animals  with  large  bones  are  weak,  their  muscles 
being  small.  Animals  imperfectly  nourished  during 
growth  have  their  bones  disproportionally  large.  If  this 
originates  from  a  constitutional  defect,  they  remain  weak 
during  life;  large  bones  may  therefore  indicate  an  im- 
perfection in  the  organs  of  nutrition." 

Of  the  improvement  of  form.  The  chief  point  to  be 
attended  to  for  the  improvement  of  form,  from  Mr. 
Cline's  principles,  is  the  selection  of  males  for  breed 
of  a  proportionally  smaller  size  than  the  females,  both 
being  of  approved  forms;  the  size  of  the  foetus  depends 
on  the  size  of  the  female,  and  therefore  when  the  female 
is  disproportionally  small,  her  oifspring  has  all  the  dis- 
proportion of  a  starveling  from  want  of  due  nourishment. 

The  larger  female  has  also  a  greater  supply  of  milk, 
and  her  offspring  is  therefore  more  abundantly  provided 
with  nourishment  after  birth. 

When  the  female  is  large  in  proportion  to  the  male, 
the  lungs  of  the  offspring  will  also  be  greater.  By 
crossing  in  this  manner,  there  are  produced  animals  with 
remarkably  large  chests,  as  has  been  often  noticed ;  the 
advantage  of  large  lungs  has  been  already  pointed  out. 

In  animals  where  activity  is  required,  this  practice 
should  not  be  extended  so  far  as  in  those  which  are  in- 
tended for  the  food  of  man. 

The  size  of  animals  is  commonly  adapted  to  the  soil 
which  they  inhabit;  when  the  produce  is  scanty,  the 
breed  is  small;  the  large  sheep  of  Lincolnshire  would 
starve,  where  the  small  sheep  of  Wales  find  abundant 
food. 


AGRICULTURE.  33 

Crossing  may  be  attended  Avith  bad  effects,  even 
when  begun  on  good  principles,  if  the  above  rule  be 
attended  to  throughout;  for  instance,  if  large  ewes 
were  brought  to  Wales,  and  sent  to  the  rams  of  the 
country,  the  offspring  would  be  of  improved  form;  and 
if  sufficiently  fed,  of  a  larger  size  than  the  native  ani- 
mals, but  the  males  of  the  breed  would  be  dispropor- 
tionately large  to  the  native  ewes,  and  therefore  would 
produce  a  starveling  ill  formed  race  with  them. 

The  general  mistake  in  crossing  has  arisen  from  an 
attempt  to  increase  the  size  of  the  native  race  of  ani- 
mals; being  a  fruitless  effort  to  counteract  the  laws  of 
nature;  which  from  theory,  from  practice,  and  extensive 
observation,  Mr.  Cline, concluded  to  be  decidedly  wrong; 
for  in  proportion  to  this  unnatural  increase  of  size,  they 
become  worse  in  form,  less  hard}',  and  more  liable  to 
disease. 

Tlie  Massachusetts  Agricultural  Repository,  vol.  vi. 
p.  78,  contains  some  valuable  remarks  on  the  subject 
of  "Dairy  Stock,"  by  S.  W.  Pomeroy,  Esq.  We  shall 
give  the  following  extract,  which  presents  an  important 
fact,  not  sufficiently  known  or  attended  to  by  writers 
who  have  treated  on  the  same  or  similar  subjects, 

"In  the  selection  of  bulls,  most  farmers  confine  their 
attention  to  form  and  colour  only,  instead  of  tracing 
their  descent  to  a  valuable  dairy  stock.  It  has  been 
observed  by  Linnasus  that  those  properties  of  animals 
which  relate  to  the  vessels,  or  in  scientific  terms,  the  cor- 
tical substance,  or  vascular  sifstem,  are  derived  from  the 
males^''  and  among  other  examples  tending  to  confirm 
this  opinion,  he  states  "that  a  cross  from  the  male  An- 
gora goat,  with  the  common  female  goat  produces  that 
fine  wool  or  substance,  called  Camel's  hair;  but  .that  the 
progeny  from  the  male  common  goat  with  the  female 
Angora,  is  productive  of  nothing  but  the  same  Avorthless 
hair  of  the  sire." 


TO    SELECT    GOOD    LAND    FOR   FARMING. 

The  remark  will,  at  first  view,  strike  most  persons  as 
a  kind  of  contradiction  in  terms,  that  the  very  richest 
land  is  not  that  on  which  Farmers  have  the  best  success, 


34  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

and  yet  nothing  is  more  certain.  The  first  quality 
of  land,  is  generally  considered  to  be  river  alluvion: 
next  to  this,  the  richest  upland,  such  as  a  fat  and  tena- 
cious loam;  then  a  sandy  loam,  or  sand  and  clay;  and 
finally  a  dry  gravel.  Of  all  these  descriptions  of  soil, 
1st,  2d,  3d,  and  4th,  the  last  is  that  on  which  we  gene- 
rally find  the  best  farmers,  not  only,  but  the  most  suc- 
cessful farming.  I  have  traversed  most  parts  of  the 
United  States,  from  Maine  to  North  Carolina,  and  be- 
tween the  great  western  Lakes  and  the  Atlantic,  and 
have  every  where  seen  proof  of  the  correctness  of  these 
remarks.  The  first  choice  of  land,  in  the  settlement  of 
every  new  country,  taking  the  qualities  as  designated 
above,  is  always  in  the  numerical  order,  as  they  stand; 
and  the  4ih,  after  some  20  to  50  years,  always  becomes, 
except  in  some  very  rare  cases  of  river  alluvion,  the 
first,  and  the  whole  order  is  reversed !  There  may  be 
particular  exceptions,  but  as  a  general  remark,  the 
above  observations  will  be  found,  on  the  strictest  exa- 
mination, to  be  sanctioned  by  general  facts.  Such  was 
the  case,  in  the  early  history  of  the  settlement  of  this 
continent,  such  it  has  been,  in  every  part  of  the  country, 
and  such  it  still  is,  as  settlements  advance,  every  where. 
One  generation  succeeds  another,  the  second  invariably 
adopting  different  views  from  the  first,  if  continuing  to 
reside  on  the  same  land;  and  yet  all  others,  all  of  those 
who  are  uninstructed  by  personal  experience  and  obser- 
vation, or  very  nearly  all,  advance  to  the  wilds  with  the 
old  fashioned  errors  of  opinion!  Were  we  to  omit  ta- 
king into  consideration  the  grounds  of  this  mistake,  the 
general  perseverance  in  it,  would  seem  to  imply  a 
strange  want  of  prudent  foresight,  or  even  a  want  of 
common  understanding. — Let  us  examine  this  matter  a 
little,  for  it  is  one  of  very  general  importance. 

Lands  in  a  state  of  nature,  wild  lands,  to  which  so 
large  a  proportion  of  the  young  men  resort  for  future 
farms,  if  clothed  with  timber,  forest  trees,  present  very 
delusive  appearances,  such,  exactly,  as  would  be  likely 
to  mislead  the  judgment.  Excepting  only  the  river  allu- 
vion, universally  sought  as  of  the  first  quality,  almost 
without  looking  at  the  soil,  the  three  other  qualities  are 


AGRICULTURE.  35 

found,  the  second  and  third,  covered  with  a  thick  depo- 
sit of  vegetable  matter,  leaves,  partly  decayed,  'soft  as 
an  under  bed,''  'black  as  my  shoe.'' — Such  is  the  surface. 
On  tearing  up  some  handfuls  of  tlie  ground,  this  is  well 
blackened  of  course,  and  little  is  thought  of  looking  for 
the  sub-soil,  as  those  invariably  do,  who  have  once  been 
deceived  by  black  muck,  and  these  soft  beds  of  leaves. 
Brooks  are  plenty,  in  such  woods,  though  they  will  be 
scarce,  on  the  same  land,  when  opened  to  the  sun,  and 
the  blankets  and  bed  of  leaves  are  removed  so  as  to  dry 
the  surface  of  the  ground. 

On  the  4th  quality  of  land,  the  dry  and  warm  gravel, 
there  is  none  of  this  great  store  of  slowly  rotting  leaves, 
because  they  rot  rapidly,  and  fires  often  burn  them  up, 
the  land  being  dry;  and  brooks,  and  springs,  are  even 
more  scarce  than  they  will  be  when  the  woods  are  de- 
stroyed. The  ground,  having  its  surface  uncovered,  and 
the  woods  generally  more  open,  presents  an  appearance 
of  nakedness,  especially  after  having  passed  over  black 
muck  lands,  shrouded  in  leaves. — With  no  allowance 
for  the  far  greater  frequency  of  fires,  to  burn  off  the 
leaves,  and  to  destroy  much  of  the  growth  of  wood, 
keeping  the  woods  more  open,  this  land  is  condemned, 
for  barrenness,  and  the  land  of  muck  is  chosen,  all  blan- 
keted and  carpeted  with  leaves.  We  may,  on  reading 
this,  admitting  it  to  be  a  true  and  faithful  outline  or  de- 
lineation, all  agree  that  we  would  act  more  wisely,  and 
yet  99  in  a  hundred  of  us,  uninstructed  by  experience, 
would  probably  choose  the  carpeted  land,  as  99  in  a 
hundred  have  done  before,  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States.  I  would  not,  and  did  not,  but  my  father  did, 
much  to  his  regret,  and  I  had  the  benefit  of  his  expe- 
rience, as  well  as  my  own,  having  been  born  and  bred 
on  one  of  those  carpeted  farms. 

Land,  that  is  cold  and  wet,  may  bear  immense 
growths  of  trees,  as  of  the  elm,  ash,  baswood,  birch, 
beech,  maple  and  hemlock;  and  having  a  very  thick 
shade,  tlie  ground  will  be  cold,  and  wet,  and  the  leaves 
must,  of  course,  decay  very  slowly.  Hence  the  carpe- 
ting, whicii  is,  invariably,  a  sure  indication  of  either  cold, 
or  wet  land,  or  of  both.     If  of  both,  it  never  will  make 


36  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

a  farm  for  grain;  and  grass,  for  pasture,  and  for  hay, 
which  grows  on  such  land,  is  always  very  inferior  in 
richness,  to  that  groAvn  on  land  that  is  warm  and  dry. 
The  difference  is  very  great.  The  most  nutritious  grass, 
grows  only  where  the  land  is  so  dry,  and  warm,  that  it 
must  be  sown  frequently  with  seed,  in  order  to  keep  up 
the  sward.  This  is  what  I  call  a  medium  soil,  good,  alike 
for  grass  and  grain,  on  which  I  should  no  more  expect 
crops  of  grass,  except  from  seed,  than  of  grain.  One 
acre  of  such  ground,  in  pasture,  or  meadow,  will  keep 
as  much  stock  as  one  and  a  half,  or  even  two,  or  three, 
of  your  black  muck  cold  and  wet  grass  land.  The  ap- 
pearance, to  be  sure,  in  pasture,  will  be  very  different. 
The  grass  may  be  very  long,  in  your  wet,  cold  land 
pasture,  but  yet  very  poor  feed:  in  the  other,  it  will 
be  far  more  nutritious,  short  and  sweet,  like  a  well 
told  story. 

With  land  that  is  dry  and  v/arm,  the  good  husband- 
man, may  always  succeed  in  getting  good  crops.  He 
may  even  make  the  soil  as  fertile  as  that  of  the  very 
richest  of  land,  and  far  more  sure  in  its  crops.  Good 
husbandry,  constantly  enriches  the  soil.  But  it  is  al- 
most impossible  to  do  this,  with  land  naturally  cold,  and 
wet.  It  has  not  v,  armth  enough  of  temperament,  to  be 
sensitive  to  kind  treatment,  but  is  like  some  men,  so 
phlegmatic,  as  to  offer  no  principle  of  life  to  act  upon. 
Heat,  and  cold,  are  always  antipodes.  You  can  never, 
by  the  utmost  kindness,  overcome  natural  antipathies. 
The  very  cause  of  the  muck,  which  misleads  so  many 
in  the  choice  of  lands,  is  a  natural  coldness  in  the  soil, 
where  leaves  are  presei-vcd  from  decay,  by  cold,  and  by 
wet,  not  moisture,  but  an  excess  of  wetness.  Such 
lands,  when  cleared,  will  produce  grain  crops,  while  the 
muck  lasts,  and  is  rotting  by  the  power  of  the  sun,  but 
is  sterile,  ever  afterwards,  unless  covered  with  a  new 
soil,  meide  artificially,  and  at  more  expense  than  the  cost 
of  warm  and  good  land.  This  can  be  effected  by 
trench-ploughing,  under-draining,  quick-lime  as  a  ma- 
nure, bringing  up  the  hard-pan,  almost  always  the  only 
sub-soil  of  mucky  lands,  but  the  cost  is  too  great  for  £iny 
thing  but  experiment,  and  on  a  small  scale. 


FARMERS'  ACCOUNTS. 


A  celebrated  agricultural  writer  says,  'There  is  not 
a  single  step  in  the  life  of  a  farmer  that  does  not  prove 
the  advantage  of  his  keeping  regular  accounts;'  and  yet 
there  are  very  few  who  attend  to  this  important  branch 
of  rural  economy. 

A  few  rough  memoranda,  often  scrawled  v>4th  chalk 
over  the  fire-place,  or  behind  the  door,  are  too  often  the 
only  records  which  a  farmer  makes  of  his  dealings  either 
by  way  of  barter  or  ready  money;  and  he  knows  as 
little  about  his  circumstances,  and  the  amount  of  what 
he  would  be  v/orth  provided  his  debts  were  paid,  as  he 
does  about  the  Chinese  language,  or  the  most  approved 
method  of  calculating  eclipses. 

The  advantages  resulting  from  clear  and  accurate 
accounts  are  properly  appreciated  in  other  pursuits  in 
life,  but  it  is  doubtfiil  whether  they  are  greater  in  any 
occupation  than  in  that  of  farming.  Sir  John  Sinclair 
has  given  some  maxims  on  this  subject,  which  are  in 
substance  as  follows: 

GENERAL    ACCOUNT    OF    STOCK. 

Every  farmer,  v/ho  desires  to  know  correctly  to  what 
profit  he  does  business,  should  provide  himself  with  a 
book,  which  he  may  call  his  General  Stock  Book.,  and  ia 
this,  some  time  in  December,  he  should  register  the  re- 
sult of  a  general  survey  of  the  condition  and  worth  of 
his  whole  property,  including  all  his  debts  and  credits. 
Having  such  a  book  to  refer  to  at  all  times  and  on  all 
occasions  will  afford  much  satisfaction  to  his  mind.  In 
the  first  place  he  should  order  in  all  his  tradesmen's 
bills,  and  in  the  mean  time  he  may  take  an  examination 
and  account  of  all  his  household  goods,  horses,  cattle, 
poultry,  corn,  grain,  in  straw  or  threshed,  hay  or  other 
Ibdder,  v/ood,  manure,  wagons,  carts,  ploughs,  and  im- 
plements of  all  kinds — the  state  of  his  fences,  gates, 
S7  D 


38  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

drains,  &:c.,  and  make  an  estimate  of  the  neccssarj 
repairs.  Minutes  being  made  on  waste  paper,  the  par- 
ticulars may  be  afterwards  entered  into  the  Stock  Book, 
with  such  a  degree  of  minuteness  as  may  be  judged 
necessary.  After  this  general  register,  a  Dr.  and  Cr. 
account  may  be  drawn  out,  the  balance  of  which  will 
exactly  show  the  present  worth  of  the  estate. 
The  form  of  the  account  may  be  as  follows: 

Stock  Dr*  Contra  Cr, 

On  the  Dr.  side  should  be  entered  all  the  farmer 
owes,  and  on  the  Cr.  side  all  he  possesses  and  all  that 
is  owing  to  him.  He  must  rate  every  thing  at  what  he 
judges  the  fair  present  worth,  was  it  then  sold ;  manure 
and  tillage  performed  must  be  valued  at  the  common 
rate  of  the  courftry. 

If  a  farmer  wishes  to  be  very  correct  in  his  calcula- 
tions of  the  prolit  and  loss  of  a  lot  of  stalled  oxen  for 
instance,  or  the  crop  of  a  particular  field,  his  readiest 
method  is  to  make  an  account  for  either  one  or  the  other 
in  his  ledger  of  Dr.  and  Cr.  On  the  Dr.  side  let  him 
place  the  cost,  including  every  minute  particular,  and  on 
the  Cr.  side  the  returns.  On  the  sale  of  the  articles,  the 
account  is  closed,  and  the  balance  demonstrates  the 
profit  and  loss. 


PROMISSORY   NOTES. 


WITHOUT    INTEREST. 


glOO  00  Cincinnati,  March  \st,  1831. 

Sixty  days  after  date  I  promise  to  pay  John  Sharp 
or  order,  One  hundred  dollars. 

Value  received.  William  Doe. 


WITH    INTEREST. 


,$1,500  00  Cincinnati,  April  6th,  1831. 

Ninety  days  after  date  for  value  received,  I  promise 
to  pay  John  Sharp  or  bearer.  One  thousand  five  hundred 
dollars,  with  interest  from  this  date. 

John  Doe. 


AGRICULTURE.  39 

PAYABLE   TO    THE    PERSON     TO     WHOM    THE    NOTE    IS 
GIVEN,    AND    NO    OTHER. 


|570  50  Lexington^  May  b/,  1831. 


Thirty  days  after  date  I  promise  to  pay  to  Jeremiah 
Hanks  Five  iiundred  and  seventy  dollars  and  fifty  cents. 
Value  received. 

Peter  H.  Sharp. 


ON  demand. 


|50  00  Indianapolis^  July  lOtk,  1831. 


On  demand  I  promise  to  pay  to  the  order  of  Richard 
Doe  Fifty  dollars.     Value  received. 

Jonathan  Hopkins. 


ANOTHER    ON    DEMAND. 


$25  25  Cincinnati^  June  \st^  1831. 


On  demand  I  promise  to  pay  John  Doe  or  order, 
Twenty-five  dollars  and  twenty-five  cents.  Value 
received.  Richard  Doe. 


ANOTHER    ON    SIGHT. 


20  00  Louisville^  January  \st^  1831. 


Good,  at  sight,  for  Twenty  dollars.     Value  received. 

Joseph  Don. 


NOTE    PAYABLE    IN    INSTALMENTS. 


$400  00  Madison^  April  4th,  1831. 


For  value  received  I  promise  to  pay  Jonathan  James 
or  order,  Four  hundred  dollars,  in  the  following  in- 
stalments, namely,  one  hundred  dollars  on  the  first  day 
of  May  next,  and  the  further  sum  of  one  hundred  dol- 
lars on  the  tenth  of  July  next,  and  the  remaining  sum 
of  two  hundred  dollars  on  the  first  day  of  January, 
eighteen  hundred  and  thirty-two,  with  lawful  interest 
from  the  payment  of  the  first  instalment  herein  named. 

William  Cash. 


40  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

NOTE    GIVEN    BY    TWO    OR    MORE. 


$300  00  Connersvilh,  May  1st,  1831. 

We  jointly  and  severally  promise  to  pay  Daniel 
Blank  Jr.  or  order,  on  the  third  of  December  next, 
three  hundred  dollars  for  value  received. 

John  J.  Phillips. 
Benjamin  Oglethorp. 


A  note  payable  in  produce. 


$30  00  Jamestown,  April  \st,  1831, 

Thirty  days  after  date,  for  value  received,  I  promise 
to  pay  James  Hodges  Jr.  or  order,  the  value  of  thirty 
dollars,  in  merchantable  wheat,  at  the  market  price  at 
the  time  this  becomes  due. 

John  Peters,  Senior, 


another. 
$300  00  Jamestown,  April  \st,  1831. 


For  value  received  I  promise  to  pay  Hugh  Fisk  or 
order,  an  equivalent  to  the  sum  of  three  hundred  dollars, 
payable  in  the  following  manner,  namely:  The  value 
of  one  hundred  dollars  on  the  first  of  May  next,  in  {here 
name  the  said  kinds  of  stock  or  produce.)  The  further 
sum  of  two  hundred  dollars  on  the  tenth  of  June  next, 
in  {here  name  the  articles,  <^c.  particularly.)  All  of  which 
articles,  goods  or  chattels  are  to  be  in  good  merchant- 
able order,  and  valued  at  the  market  price  at  the  sever- 
al periods  in  which  they  become  due. 

Thomas  Flim,  Jr. 


judgment  note. 
I  promise  to  pay  William  Dunallen  Jr.  of  the  City 
of  Cincinnati,  merchant,  or  order,  five  hundred  dollars 
with  lawful  interest,  on  the  first  day  of  June  ensuing, 
for  value  received.  And  further,  1  do  hereby  empower 
any  attorney  of  any  of  the  courts  of  the  City  of  Cin- 
cinnati, or  of  any    other  court    of  recordof  Ohio,  to 


AGRICULTURE.  41 

confess  judgment  for  the  above  sum  and  costs  with 
release  of  errors,  &c.  Witness  my  hand,  this  first  daj 
of  May,  A.  D.  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  thirty. 

John  I.  Worthy 
In  presence  of       A.  B. 
C.  D. 


BILLS. 


BILL    OF    EXCHANGE. 

$500  00  Cincinnati^  June  Is/,  1831. 

Ten  days  after  sight,  pay  to  the  order  of  John  J. 
Mills  five  hundred  dollars,  value  received,  without  fur- 
ther advice,  which  charge  to  the  account  of 

David  Readymoney. 

Messrs.  Floyd,  Jones,  &,  Co. 


A    PENAL    BILL. 

This  bill  bindeth  me  Andrew  Brownson  of- 


in  the  sum  of  fifty  dollars  to  be  paid  unto  John  Y. 
Yates,  his  certain  attorney,  executors,  administrators, 

or  assigns,  on  or  before  the day  of which 

will  be  in  the  year together  with  lawful  interest 

for  the  same:  For  the  true  payment  whereof,  I  do 
bind  myself,  my  heirs,  executors,  and  administrators, 
and  each  of  them  unto  the  said  John  Y.  Yates,  his  ex- 
ecutors, administrators,  and  assigns  in  the  penal  sum  of 
eight  hundred  dollars.         In  witness  &c. 

A.  B.  C. 


A    MERCANTILE    BILIm 

Israel  Thompson, 

To  H.  L.  Bamum,  Dr. 
For  three  hundred  bushels  of  wheat,  at  one  dollar 
per  bushel,  $300  00 

One  cow,  at  thirty  dollars,  30  00 

d2 


43  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Three  tons  of  hay,  at  ten  dollars  per  ton,         30  00 


Payment  received.  $360  00 

Cincinnati,  May  1st,  1831. 

Philo   Jones,  for 

H.  L.   Barnum. 


RECEIPTS. 

Received,  this  first  day  of  May,  A.  D.  1831,  from 
Frederick  Pay,  thirty  dollars,  being  in  full  for  one  cow, 
sold  by  me,  to  the  said  Frederick  Pay. 

$30  00  Charles  P.  Brair. 


Cincinnati,  May  Wth,  1831. 
Received,  this  day,  of  Peter  Paymaster,  one  hundred 
dollars,  being  in  full  of  all  demands. 
$100  00  Charles  Robinson. 


MONEY  RECEIVED  BY  THE  HAND  OF  A  THIRD  PERSON. 

Received,  the  twentieth  day  of  September,  A.  D. 
1831,  from  Henry  Hobbs,  by  the  hand  of  Morris  Bil- 
lings, the  sum  of  two  hundred  dollars,  in  full  for  sundry 
articles  of  produce,  bought  by  the  said  Henry  Hobbs 
from  me. 

$200  00  Amos  B.  Phelps. 


RECEIPT  FOR  A  PROMISSORY  NOTE. 

Received,  Versailles,  May  first,  A.  D.  1831,  from 
Richard  Doc,  his  promissory  note,  payable  to  me  or 
order,  three  months  after  date,  for  five  hundred  dollars, 
due  to  me  for  certain  produce,  bought  from  me,  by  the 
said  Richard  Doe,  which,  when  paid,  will  be  in  full  of 
all  demands. 
Mi^^^OO'OiT  H.  Brown. 


AGRICULTURE.  43 

FOR  AN  ORDER  DRAWN  UPON  A  THIRD  PERSON. 

Received,  the day  of,  &c.  from  D.  Doe,  an 

order,  drawn  in  my  favor  upon  Conrad  Hughes,  Jr.  for 

the  sum  of upon  sight,  which,  when  paid, 

will  be  in  full  of  all  demands  I  have  against  the  said 
I).  Doe. 

Samuel  Harrison. 


a  short  business  order. 

Mr.  John  James, 

Please  pay  H.  L.  Barrows  five  dollars, 
and  charge  the  same  to  my  account. 

Philip  Hays. 


RECEIPT  FOR  PROPERTY  LEFT  ON  SALE. 

Received,  this  first  day  of  June,  A.  D.  1831,  from 
James  Johnson,  one  bay  horse,  {or  any  other  article^  as  the 
case  may  6e,)  which  I  am  to  sell  for {here  men- 
tion the  terms)  and  duly  account  to  the  said  James  John- 
son for  the  same. 

James  Peters,  Jr. 


AGREEMENT    BETWEEN    A    MASTER    AND   OVERSEER    OR 
LABORER,  ABOUT    THE    MANAGEMENT    OF    A    FARM. 

Article  of  agreement,  between  Adam  Painter  of,  &:c. 
of  the  one  part,  and  John  Stewart  of,  &c.  of  the  other 
part,  as  follows,  viz: — 

Whereas,  the  said  Adam  Painter  hath  agreed  with 
and  hired  the  said  John  Stewart,  to  be  his  overseer  or 
laborer  (as  the  case  may  be)  for  the  well  ordering, 
improving,  and  managing,  for  the  best  and  most  profit 
and  advantage  of  the  said  Adam,  in  good  husband-like 
manner  as  herein  after  mentioned,  all  that  farm  or  tene- 
ment, barns,  stables,  out-houses,  lands,  meadows,  and 
pasture-ground,  with  the  appurtenances  thereunto  be- 
longing, now  in  the  tenure  or  occupancy  of  the  said 
Adam,  situated  in  Blockley,  and  commonly  called  or 
known  by  the  name  of  Painter's  Grange,  for  the  terra 


44  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

of  one  year  from  the  first  day  of  April  next  coming, 
after  the  date  thereof,  and  so  from  year  to  year  after- 
waids,  for  and  during  the  term  of  three  years  more,  if 
he  the  said  Adam  Painter  shall  think  fit  to  retain  the 
«aid  John  Stewart,  in  his  said  service,  and  not  other- 
wise, at  and  for  the  yearly  salary  or  wages  of  three 
hundred  dollars,  payable  quarterly  as  herein  after  men- 
tioned: Now  it  is  thereupon  covenanted,  agreed,  and 
concluded,  by  and  between  the  said  parties  to  these 
presents,  for  themselves,  their  executors,  administrators, 
and  assigns,  in  manner  and  form  following,  that  is  to 
say:  the  said  John  Stewart,  for  himself,  his,  &c.  doth 
covenant,  &c.  to  and  with  the  said  Adam  Painter,  his, 
&;c.  by,  &c.  that  the  said  John  shall  and  will,  with  the 
assistance  herein  after  covenanted  to  be  afforded  to  him 
by  the  said  Adam,  in  a  good  husband-like  manner,  and 
at  seasonable  times,  in  the  year,  from  time  to  time  during 
go  long  as  he  shall  continue  in  the  said  service  of  the 
said  Adam,  well  and  sufficiently  plough  and  keep  in  til- 
lage the  number  of  one  hundred  acres,  little  more  or 
less,  parcel  of  the  farm  aforesaid,  every  year,  yearly, 

and  shall  and  will   leave  acres  thereof,  to  be 

laid   fallow  every  other   year,   and   plough  the  same 

acres  three  times  before  it  be  sown  again;  and 

shall  sow  or  plant  the  remaining acres  at  sea- 
sonable times,  in  the  year,  with  such  corn  and  seed  as 
the  said  Adam,  his  executors,  or  assigns,  shall  from  time 
to  time  direct  and  appoint;  and  the  same  so  sown  or 
planted  shall,  in  good  husband-like  manner,  harrow  or 
plough:  And  that  he,  the  said  John  Stewart,  with  the 
workmen  to  be  furnished  him  by  the  said  Adam  Pain- 
ter, shall,  from  time  to  time,  during  the  term  of  four 
years,  or  so  long  thereof  as  he  shall  remain  in  the  said 
service  of  the  said  Adam,  at  seasonable  times  in  the 
year,  in  a  good  husband-like  manner,  gather,  husk,  and 
crib,  all  the  corn,  and  reap,  cut  down,  and  shock,  all  the 
grain  that  shall  stand,  grow,  or  be  in  or  upon  the  said 
farm,  or  any  part  thereof,  and  do  all  other  things  that 
shall  be  convenient  for  making  the  same  fit  to  be  housed, 
and  then  shall  fetch  in  and  lay  up  the  same  in  the  barn 
belonging  to  the  farm:  And  also,  well  and  sufficiently 


AGRICULTURE.  45 

repair,  maintain,  keep  and  amend,  the  fences  and  en- 
closures of  or  belonging  to  tiie  said  farm  and  premises, 
in,  by,  and  with,  all  needful  and  necessary  repairs,  and 
amendments  during  the  said  term:  And  shall  and  will 
manure  all  the  meadows  of  the  said  farm  from  the  first 
day  of  April  to  the  twenty-first  day  of  June,  or  so  much 
longer  every  year  during  so  long  of  the  said  term  of 
three  years  as  he  shall  continue  in  the  said  service 
of  the  said  Adam,  his  executors,  or  assigns,  as  shall  be 
convenient  for  hay:  And  shall  and  will  also,  at  season- 
able times  in  the  year,  yearly,  during  the  said  term,  in 
good  and  husband-like  manner,  mow  all  the  said  mea- 
dows, and  in  like  manner  make  up  all  the  hay,  and 
carry  it  from  the  said  meadow  to  the  yard  belonging  to 
the  said  farm,  and  there  lay  it  up  in  a  stack  or  stacks: 
And  shall  and  will  lay  all  the  dung,  soil,  and  compost, 
that  shall  be  made  in  or  about  the  yard  and  out-houses 
belonging  to  the  said  farm,  and  such  other  dung  and 
soil  as  the  said  Adam  shall  buy  or  provide  for  that  pur- 
pose, to  and  upon  such  part  of  the  lands  and  grounds  of 
the  said  farm  as  the  said  Adam,  or  his  executors  or  as- 
signs, shall  from  time  to  time  direct  and  appoint;  and  at 
seasonable  times  in  the  year  shall  there  spread  the 
same:  In  consideration  of  all  v/hich  premises,  he,  the 
said  Adam  Painter,  for  himself,  his  executors,  adminis- 
trators, and  assigns,  doth  covenant,  grant,  and  agree,  to 
and  with  the  said  John  Stewart,  his  executors  and  as- 
signs, by  these  presents,  in  manner  and  form  following, 
that  is  to  say:  that  he  the  said  Adam  Painter,  his  execu- 
tors, administrators,  or  assigns,  shall  and  will  well  and 
truly  pay,  or  cause  to  be  paid,  unto  the  said  John 
Stewart,  the  said  yearly  wages  or  salary  of  three  hun- 
dred dollars,  during  so  long  of  the  aforesaid  term  of 
four  years,  as  he  the  said  John  shall  continue  in  the  said 
service  and  employment  of  the  said  Adam,  on  the  four 
quarterly  days,  that  is  to  say,  on  the  first  days  of  April, 
July,  October,  and  January,  in  equal  portions,  and  shall, 
during  the  same  time,  allow  him  to  occupy,  with  his 

family,  the  following  premises,  viz. ;  and  shall, 

moreover,  furnish  him  with  workmen  of  the  following 
descriptions,  viz. ,  to  be  under  his  control  and 


46  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

direction  for  the  purposes  herein  before  particularlj 
mentioned.     In  witness  whereof,  &c. 


ARTICLES    OF    AGREEMENT    FOR    THE    SALE    OF    LAND. 

Articles  of  Agreement,  made  and  concluded  the  first 
day  of  July,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord,  one  thousand  eight 

hundred  and  twenty-eight,  between  A.  B.  of in 

Hartford  County,  and  state  of  Maryland,  hatter,  of  the 
one  part,  and  C.  D.  of  the  same  place,  merchant,  of  the 
other  part,  as  follows,  to  wit: 

The  said  A.  B.,  for  the  consideration  herein  after 
mentioned,  doth,  for  himself,  his  heirs,  executors,  and 
administrators,  covenant,  promise,  grant,  and  agree,  to 
and  v/ith  the  said  C.  D.,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  by  these 
presents,  that  he,  the  said  A.  B.,  shall  and  will,  on  or  be- 
fore the  tenth  day  of  May  next  ensuing  the  date  hereof,  at 
the  proper  cost  and  charges  of  the  said  A.  B.,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  by  good  and  lawful  deed  or  deeds,  well 
and  sufficiently  grant,  convey,  and  assure,  unto  the  said 
C.  D.,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  in  fee  simple,  clear  of  all 
incumbrances,  all  that  messuage,  &:c.  [Here  describe 
the  property.] 

In  consideration  whereof,  the  said  C.  D.,  for  himself, 
his  heirs,  executors,  and  administrators,  doth  covenant, 
promise,  and  agree,  to  and  with  the  said  A.  B.,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  by  these  presents,  that  he,  the  said  C.  D., 
his  heirs,  executors,  and  administrators,  or  some  of  them, 
shall  and  will,  on  the  execution  and  delivery  of  the 
said  deed  as  aforesaid,  well  and  truly  pay,  or  cause  to 
be  paid,  unto  the  said  A.  B.,  his  executors,  administra- 
tors, or  assigns,  the  sum  of  two  thousand  dollars,  in 
manner  following,  to  wit:  one  thousand  dollars,  part 
thereof,  on  the  delivery  of  the  deed  for  the  premises,  as 
aforesaid,  and  the  residue  thereof,  in  two  equal  yearly 
payments  thereafter,  all  without  interest,  for  which  the 
said  C.  D.  shall  give  to  the  aforesaid  A.  B.  bonds  with 
sufficient  security  for  the  payment  of  the  same,  if  re- 
quired. And  upon  his,  the  said  C.  D.,  executing  and 
delivering  the  bonds  aforesaid,  the  said  A.  B.  shall  give 
unto  the  said  C.  D.  possession  of  the  premises. 


AGRICULTURE.  47 

And  for  the  true  performance  of  all  and  every  the 
covenants  and  agreements  aforesaid,  each  of  the  said 
parties  bindeth  himself,  his  heirs,  executors,  and  admi- 
nistrators, unto  the  other,  his  executors,  administrators, 
and  assigns,  in  the  penal  sum  of  four  thousand  dollars, 
lawful  money  of  the  United  States,  firmly  by  these 
presents.  In  witness  whereof,  the  said  parties  to  these 
presents,  have  hereunto  set  their  hands  and  seals. 
Dated  the  day  and  year  first  above  written. 
Sealed  and  delivered) 
in  the  presence  of  ) 


FOR    LETTING    A    HOUSE,    SlC, 

Agreed,  the day  of ,  between  John  Barnes, 

of,  &c.,  of  the  one  part,  and  James  Pugh,  of,  &c.,  of  the 
other  part,  as  foUoweth,  viz. 

The  said  John  Barnes  doth  let  unto  the  said  James 
Pugh,  and  the  said  James  agrees  to  take  all  that,  &c. 
for  one  year,  from  the  first  day  of  January  next,  and  for 
such  longer  time  after  the  expiration  of  the  said  one  year, 
as  both  the  said  parties  shall  agree,  and  until  the  end 
of  three  months  after  notice  shall  be  given  by  either  of 
the  said  parties  to  the  other  of  them  for  leaving  the  said 

premises,  at  and  for  the  yearly  rent  of dollars, 

to  be  paid  quarterly  on  the  first  Mondays  in  April,  July, 
October,  and  January,  by  even  and  equal  portions,  which 
said  yearly  rent  the  said  James  Pugh  doth  hereby,  for 
himself,  his  executors,  and  administrators,  covenant  and 
agree  to  pay  to  the  said  John  Barnes  [if  freehold  say] 
and  his  heirs,  [but  if  otherwise  say]  executors,  adminis- 
trators, and  assigns,  accordingly,  for  so  long  time  as  he 
shall  hold  and  enjoy  the  said  premises  as  aforesaid,  and 
until  the  end  of  the  said  three  months  next  after  notice 
shall  be  given  by  either  of  the  said  parties,  to  the  other 
of  them,  for  leaving  the  said  premises  as  aforesaid.  In 
witness,  &c. 


INDEX. 


AGRICULTURE. 


Agricultural  implements,  to  choose,  • 

Apples,  to  keep,    ;  - 

Ants,  to  destroy,         .        -        .        - 

Bad  water,  to  remedy. 
Barley,  to  increase  a  crop  of, 
Bees,  to  preserve  from  insects. 
Bee-miller,  to  destroy, 

Beef,  to  keep, 

Boots  and  shoes,  to  prevent  taking  in 
water, 

Cockroaches,  to  kill, 

Cider,  to  make, 


])amaged  hay,  to  guard  against. 

Early  potatoes,  to  produce  in  great 

quantities, 

Eggs,  to  preserve,    -        -        -        - 

Farmer's  accounts,     .        .       -        - 
*'        General  account  of  stock, 
"        Promissory  notcp,  form  of, 
"  Note  without  interest, 

"  Do.  with  interest, 

"  Do.  payable  to  the  person 

to  whom  the  note  is 
given,     - 
"  Do.  payable  to  order,  ■ 

"  Do.  on  demand, 

"  Do.  payable  ill  instalments, 

"  Do.  given  by  two  or  more 

persons, 
"  Do.  payable  in  produce. 

"  Do.  by  instalments,  paya- 

ble in   produce,  or 
any  species  of  goods 
or  chattels,     - 
"  Do.  judgment, 

"        Bills,  form  of,      - 
"  Do.  of  exchange, 

"  Do.  penal, 

"  Do.  mercantile,    • 

"        Plain  receipts, 
"        Receipt  for  payment  by  the 
hand  of  a  third  per- 
son, 
"  Do.  for  a  promissory  note, 

"  Do.  for   an    order  drawn 

upon  a  third  person, 
"  Do.  for  property    left  for 

sale,    - 
"       Short  business  order,  - 
"        Agreement  between  a  mas- 
ter and  overseer  or  laborer 
about  the  management  of 
a  farm, 
"       Agreement  for  the  sale    of 

land, 

''  Do.  for  letting  a  house,  ^•c. 


Feathers,  to  renew,  -  -  -  18 
Fowls,  to  feed  so  as  to  make  lay  in  any 

sea.son  of  the  year,  -        -        -      9 

Fly  on  turnip,  to  destroy,        •        -        14 

Grain,  to  preserve,      -        ...      5 
"    To  keep  from  the  depredations 

of  vermin,  -        •        -        14 

Grass  lands,  to  lay  down,  •       -       -    27 

Hay,  to  make,  -        -        -        -        21 

House  flies,  to  destroy,  -  -  .15 
Hogs,  an  economical  way  of  fattening,  20 
Hessian  fly,  to  destroy,       -        -        -     16 


15  Lands  for  farming,  to  select, 


38 


39 


40 


41 


42 


33 


Miscellaneous  short  receipts,      -        -  25 
"    To  obtain  enjoyment  by  using 

simple  food,        -        -        - 
"    Tortoise  shell  combs,  to  render 

durable,         ....  — 

"     Meal  to  preserve,    -        .        .  — 
"    To  prevent  the  disagreeable  smell 

of  lamps,       ....  — 

"    To  keep  the  hair  clean,  .       -  — 
"    "Woollens,  to  prevent  shrinking 

when  wasiiod,   -        •        -  26 

"     Lard  and  suet,  to  keep,      -        .  — 

'•     Legs  of  mutton,  to  cure  like  ham,  — 

"    Simple  way  to  color  nankin  color,  — 

Mouldincss,  to  prevent,  -        -        -  10 

Musty  corn,  to  cure,  -        -        -        -  9 

Mildew  on  peach  trees,  ^c.  to  prevent,  10 

Plums  and  peaches,  to  preserve  through 

the  year, 9 

Rats,  to  destroy,      -        -        -        •  )2 

Seeds,  to  preserve,      -        -        -        -15 

Slugs  on  land,  to  destroy,        -        -  14 

Smut  in  wheat,  to  prevent,         •        .  13 

Stock,  to  select,        -        -                -  28 

"    Method  of  feeding,      -        -        -  30 

"    The  proper  size  of,         -        -  — 

"     Proper  form  of  the  chest,  31 

"     The  head,  -        -  — 

"         "      Muscles,                .  32 

"        "          "      Bones,        -        -  — 

"    Improvement  of  the  general 

form  of,         ....  — 

"    Crossing,         -        -        •        •  31 

Sayings,  for  farmers,          -        -        -  19 

Seed  corn,  to  select,         -        -        -  27 

Tallow  for  candles,  to  purify,         -  6 
Tomatoes,  to  preserve,       -        -        .26 

Water,  to  purify,      -        -        -        -  23 

Weeds,  to  destroy,       -        -        ■        -  18 

Wealth,  the  way  to,       -       •        -  26 


GARDENING. 


^  --— -^     ~      -    — ==-   '  -^ 

=^^=-==^=^=--^^ 

^^^^^^«^ 

^^^ 

^^HRHiRM^nra^lKHffi^^^^^^^^S 

p^j^ 

mc^ft^aJ^^iBMimaSfet^J^id 

ili&ic^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^SwSSfrneTtnSF'-^''^'^'^^^ 

Bi^pnniH^ 

1  Tiililnllnlf  ill  ■IrlWi  ill'  iiiMlB  ilti  iiffiT^"."7'~".'^'' 

■HS^B 

^M 

BUBMI^^JBriM 

JiWII^'^^ 

••Gardening  is  both  a  science  and  an  art.  It  em- 
braces the  knowledge  and  use  of  all  the  aliments  of  the 
vegetable  kingdom,  that  serve,  or  may  serve  the  want^, 
as  well  as  the  pleasures  of  mankind." 

Hence  a  good  garden  is  very  essential  to  every  farm- 
er.    It  is  conducive  to  health,  comfort  and  profit. 


TO    CHOOSK    THE    SOIL    FOR    A     KITCHEN    C;  \RDEN. 

It  is  found  that  a  light  sandy  loam  is  the  best  soil  for 
a  kitchen  garden.  This  may  be  formed  where  the 
predominant  soil  is  either  clay,  peat,  or  sand.  A  free 
marl  is  likewise  well  calculated  for  garden  culture. — 
The  addition  of  a  moderate  quantity  of  clay  with  the 
oxide  of  iron,  is  of  much  use  in  promoting  fertility. 

It  is  fortunate,  however,  when  a  garden  contains  a 
variety  of  soils;  as  some  vegetables  require  a  dry,  oth- 
ers a  wet  earth;  some  thrive  best  in  a  strong  heavy  soil, 
and  others  in  a  light  sandy  one,  and  I  cannot  point  out 
any  one  species  of  land  that  will  suit  all  vegetables; 
therefore  the  soil  most  congenial  to  the  different  plants, 
will  be  described  under  their  respective  heads  hereafter. 
49  E 


50  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

PREPARATION    OF    THE     SOIL. 

Preparing  the  soil  and  trenching  it  to  a  proper  depth, 
is  not  always  sufficiently  attended  to  in  gardening. — 
The  soil  ought  to  be  from  one  foot  and  a  half  to  two 
feet  and  a  half  deep,  particularly  where  tap-rooted  vege- 
tables arc  cultivated.  The  roots  can  thus  with  greater 
facility  extend  their  fibres  in  all  directions,  in  search  of 
vegetable  nourishment,  and  a  reservoir  is  provided  for 
any  superabundant  moisture  which  may  be  occasioned 
by  heavy  rains,  where  it  is  retained  till  it  is  wanted. — 
Where  the  ground  is  wet,  draining  is  indispensable. 

Soils  may  be  rendered  more  fit  for  answering  the 
purposes  of  vegetation  (especially  in  gardening)  by 
pulverization;  by  consolidation;  by  exposure  to  the 
atmosphere;  by  alteration  of  their  constituent  parts: 
by  changing  their  condition  in  respect  to  water;  and  by 
a  change  in  the  kinds  of  plants  cultivated.  All  these 
improvements  are  independent  of  the  application  of 
manure. 


TO    PREPARE    HOT    BEDS. 


H6t  beds  are  things  not  merely  of  luxury,  but  of  real 
utility,  especially  to  farmers  and  gardeners  who  send 
their  productions  to  market.  Plants  which  are  brought 
to  maturity  in  the  open  air,  may  often  be  rendered  fit 
for  the  table  a  month  earlier  in  consequence  of  being 
sown  and  forwarded  during  the  earlier  stages  of  their 
existence  in  hot  beds.  The  following  is  given  in  the 
New-England  Farmer,  as  a  good  method  of  preparing 
hot  beds. 

In  the  month  of  March,  mark  out  your  bed  to  the 
size  of  the  frame  you  design  to  cover  it,  which  is  gen- 
erally six  feet  in  length  and  three  in  breadth,  covered 
with  glass,  set  in  sashes  of  twelve  panes  each,  say  of  7 
l)y  9  glass.  The  sashes  should  be  hung  with  hinges 
upon  the  back  side,  to  admit  their  being  raised  up  or 
let  down  in  front  at  pleasure.  The  front  side  of  the 
Fashes  to  incline  downwards  from  the  back  side,  about 
^ix  inches.     The  frame,  or  box,  is  tight  upon  ail  four  of 


GARDENING.  51 

its  sides,  and  generally  about  twelve  inches  high  in  front, 
and  eighteen  inches  on  the  back  side. 

Dig  your  bed  thus  marked  otf,  and  cover  it  with  litter 
from  the  horse  stable — stamp  down  your  several  layers, 
until  your  bed  is  raised  to  the  height  you  wish— then 
cover  the  bed  with  a  layer  of  rich  earth  from  6  to  12 
inches  thick,  and  set  on  your  frame;  in  8  or  10  days  it 
will  generally  be  ready  for  planting,  if  the  weather  is 
mild.  If  the  fermentation  is  too  powerful,  and  the  heat 
too  active,  give  it  air  by  raising  the  lights  in  your  frame, 
until  you  have  obtained  a  right  temperature — (which 
you  may  observe  by  placing  your  hand  upon  the  bed, 
or  thrusting  it  into  it.)  You  may  then  plant  your  early 
cucumbers,  radishes,  salads,  &c. — those  plants  will  soon 
come  forward,  and  may  be  transplanted  into  other  hot 
beds,  not  so  powerful,  or  promiscuously  into  the  garden, 
and  covered  with  other  small  frames,  of  1,  2,  and  4 
panes  of  glass,  according  to  circumstances,  and  the  re- 
mainder may  stand  for  use.  These  plants  may  be  gen- 
erally brought  to  perfection  about  one  month  earlier 
than  in  open  ground. 


TO    MAKE    COMPOSTS    FOR    PLANTS. 

These  may  be  reduced  to  light  sandy  loam  from  old 
pastures.  Strong  loam  approaching  nearly  to  brick  earth, 
from  the  same  source.  Peat  earth  from  the  surface  of 
heaths  or  commons.  Bog  earth,  from  bogs  or  morasses. 
Vegetable  earth,  from  the  decayed  leaves,  stalks,  cow 
dung,  &c.  Sand  earth,  sea  sand,  drift  sand,  or  pow- 
dered stone,  so  as  to  be  as  free  as  possible  from  iron, 
lime,  rubbish,  and,  lastly,  common  garden  earth;  there 
are  no  known  plants  that  will  not  grow  or  thrive  in  one 
or  other  of  these  earths,  alone,  or  mixed  with  some  other 
earth,  or  with  rotten  dung,  or  leaves. 


TO    SELECT    GOOD    GARDEN    SEEDS,    &C'. 

1.  The  management  of  a  garden  (summarily  speaking) 
consists  in  attention  and  application;  the  first  should  be 
of  that  wary  and  provident  kind,  as  not  only  to  do  well 
in  the  present,  but  for  the  future;  and  the  latter  should 


52  FAMILY  RECEirTS. 

be  of  that  diligent  nature  as  (willingly)  never  to  defer 
that  till  to-morrow  rvhieh  may  be  done  to-day. '^'^ 

2.  Procrastination  is  of  serious  consequence  to  gar- 
rlening;  and  neglect  of  times  and  seasons  will  be  fruitful 
of  disappointment  and  complaint.  It  will  often  happen, 
indeed,  that  a  gardener  cannot  do  what  he  would ^  but 
if  he  does  not  do  what  he  c«7i,  he  will  be  most  justly 
blamed,  and  perhaps  censured  by  none  more  than  by 
himself. 

3.  Seed.  "Let  your  seed  be  sucli  as  you  would  have 
your  future  crop — the  best  of  the  kind.  As  the  largest 
animals  produce  the  most  profitable  stock,  so  it  is  in 
vegetables;  the  largest  seed  of  the  kind,  plump  and 
sound,  is  the  best,  being  well  ripened,  and  kept  from 
injuries  of  weather  and  insects. 

4.  "Commonly  speaking,  7iew  seed  is  to  be  preferred 
to  old,  as  grow  ing  more  luxuriantly,  and  coming  up  the 
surer  and  quicker.  As  to  the  age  of  seeds,  at  which 
they  may  be  sown  and  germinate,  it  is  uncertain,  and 
depends  much  how  they  are  preserved. 

5.  "Seeds  of  cucumbers,  melons,  gourds,  &c.  whicli 
have  thick,  horny  coverings,  and  the  oil  of  the  seed  of  a 
cold  nature,  will  continue  good  for  ten,  fifteen,  or  even 
twenty  years,  unless  they  are  kept  in  a  very  warm  place, 
which  will  exhaust  the  vegetable  nutriment  in  a  twelve 
month;  [three  years  for  cucumbers,  and  four  for  melons^ 
is  generally  thought  to  be  best,  as  they  shoot  less  vigo- 
rously than  new  seeds,  and  become  more  fruitful.] 

6.  "Oily  seeds  whose  coats,  though  they  are  not  so 
hard  and  close  as  the  former,  yet  abounding  with  oil 
of  a  warmer  nature,  will  continue  good  three  or  four 
years,  as  radish,  turnip,  rape,  mustard,  &c.  Seeds  of 
umbelliferious  plants,  Avhich  are  for  the  most  part  of  a 
warm  nature,  lose  their  growing  faculty  in  one,  or  at 
most  two  years,  as  parsley,  carrots,  parsneps,  &c. 

7.  Pease  and  beans  of  two  years  old  are  by  some  pre- 
ferred to  new,  as  not  likely  to  run  to  straw.  Sowings 
should  generally  be  performed  on  fresh  dung  or  stirred 
ground.  There  is  a  nutritious  moisture  in  fresh  turned 
up  soil,  that  softens  the  seed  to  swell  and  germinate 
quickly,  and  nourishes  it  with  proper  aliment  to  pro- 


GARDENING.  53 

ceed  in  its  growth  with  vigor^  but  which  is  evaporated 
soon  after  from  the  surface. 

8.  Weeding.  "Weeding  in  time  is  a  material  thing 
in  culture,  and  stirring  the  ground  about  plants,  as  also 
earthing  up  when  necessary,  must  be  attended  to.  Brea- 
king the  surface  will  keep  the  soil  in  health;  for  when 
it  lies  in  a  hard  or  bound  state,  enriching  showers  run 
off,  and  the  salubrious  air  cannot  enter.  Weeds  exhaust 
the  strength  of  the  ground,  and  if  they  are  suffered  to 
seed  and  sow  themselves,  may  be  truly  called  (as  Mr. 
Evelyn  speaks)  gardcji  sins.  The  hand  and  hoe  are  the 
instruments  for  the  purpose. 

9.  '^Digging,  where  the  spade  can  go,  between  the 
rows  of  plants,  is  a  good  method  of  destroying  weeds; 
and  as  it  cuts  off  the  straggling  fibres  of  roots,  they 
strike  fresh  in  numerous  new  shoots,  and  are  thus 
strengthened.  Deep  hoeing  is  a  good  practice,  as  it 
gives  a  degree  of  fertility  to  the  earth. 

10.  "The  thinning  of  seedling  crops  (such  as  are  de- 
signed to  produce  seed)  is  a  very  necessary  thing  to  be 
done  in  time^  before  the  young  plants  have  drawn  one 
another  up  too  much,  by  which  they  become  weak  and 
out  of  form,  and  sometimes  never  do  well  afterwards. 
All  plants  grow  stronger,  and  ripen  their  juices  better, 
when  the  air  circulates  freely  round  them,  and  the  sun 
is  not  prevented  from  an  immediate  influence,  an  atten- 
tion to  which  should  be  paid  from  the  first  appearance 
of  plants  breaking  ground. 

11.  "In  thinning  c/o5e  crops,  as  onions,  carrots,  tur- 
nips, &c.  be  sure  they  are  not  left  too  near;  for  instead 
of  reaping  a  greater  produce,  there  would  surely  be  a 
less.  When  they  stand  too  close,  they  will  make  tall 
and  large  tops,  but  are  prevented  swelling  in  their 
roots:  better  to  err  on  \he  wide  side,  for  though  there 
are  fewer  plants  they  are  finer. 

12.  "In  setting  out  plants^  be  sure  to  do  it  as  early  as 
may  be,  and  always  allow  room  enough  for  this  work : 
being  thus  treated,  vegetables  will  come  forward  sooner, 
larger,  and  of  a  superior  flavor.  These  advantages  are 
seen  in  all  things,  but  in  lettuces  particularly,  which  often 
have  not  half  the  room  allowed  them  that  they  require. 

e2 


54  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

13.  ''Different  sorts  of  plants^  intended  for  the  producing 
of  seed,  ought  not  to  be  suffered  to  fower  together,  a  caution 
dcsercing  of  attention. — In  Ray's  history  of  planting  we 
have  the  following  anecdote:  One  Richard  Baal,  a 
gardener  at  Brentford,  sold  a  great  quantity  of  caiili- 
tiowcr  seed,  which  he  raised  in  his  own  garden,  to  seve- 
ral gardeners  in  the  suburbs  of  London,  who  carefully 
sowed  the  seed  in  good  ground,  but  they  produced  no- 
thing but  the  common  long  leaf  cabbage;  for  which  rea- 
r-on they  complained  they  were  imposed  upon,  and 
commenced  suit  against  the  aforesaid  Baal,  in  West- 
minster hall. 

14.  "The  judge's  opinion  was,  that  Baal  must  return 
the  gardeners  their  money,  and  also  make  good  their 
loss  of  time  and  crops.  This  cheat  we  ought  not  to  lay 
to  the  poor  gardener's  charge,  for  it  is  wholly  to  be  as- 
cribed to  his  good  plants  being  impregnated  by  the 
common  cabbage. 

15.  Wherefore,  if  any  one  has  an  excellent  cabbage, 
he  ought  not  to  let  it  flower  on  the  same  bed  or  beside 
any  of  an  inferior  sort,  lest  the  good  sort  be  impregna- 
ted with  the  dust  (pollen,  prepared  in  the  male  flower 
of  plants)  of  the  other,  and  the  seeds  produce  a  dege- 
nerate race." 

16.  On  the  choice  of  seeds.  The  way  to  try  the  good- 
ness of  seed,  says  Mr.  Cobbett,  is  this,  "Put  a  small 
quantity  of  it  in  htke-warm  water,  and  let  the  water  be 
four  or  five  niches  deep.  A  mug  or  basin  will  do,  but 
a  large  glass  tumbler  is  best,  for  then  you  can  see  the 
bottom  as  well  as  the  top. 

17.  "Some  seeds,  sucli  as  those  of  cabbage,  radish, 
and  turnip,  will,  if  good,  go  to  the  bottom  at  once.  Cu- 
cumber, melon,  lettuce,  endive,  and  many  others,  require 
a  few  minutes.  Parsncp  and  carrot,  and  all  the  winged 
seeds  require  to  be  washed  by  your  fingers  in  a  little 
water,  and  well  wetted,  before  you  put  them  into  the 
glass;  and  the  carrot  should  be  rubbed  so  as  to  get  off 
part  of  the  hairs,  which  would  otherwise  act  as  the  fea- 
thers do  to  a  duck. 

18.  "The  seed  of  the  beet  and  mangel  wurtzel  are 
in  a  case  or  shell.     The  rough  things  that  we  sow  are 


GARDENING.  55 

not  the  sccds^  but  the  cases  in  which  the  seeds  are  con- 
tained, each  case  containing  from  one  to  five  seeds. 
Therefore,  the  trial  by  water  is  not  conclusive  as  to 
these  two  seeds,  though  if  the  seed  be  very  good,  it  will 
sink  in  water,  after  being  in  the  glass  an  hour. 

19.  ''And  as  it  is  a  matter  of  such  great  importance 
that  every  seed  should  grow,  where  the  plants  stand  so 
far  apart;  as  gaps  in  roots  of  beets  and  mangel  wurtzel 
are  so  very  injurious,  the  best  way  is  to  reject  all  seeds 
that  will  not  sink,  case  and  all,  after  being  put  into 
warm  water  and  remaining  there  an  hour. 

20.  "But  seeds  of  all  sorts,  are,  sometimes,  if  not 
always,  part  sound  and  part  unsound ;  and  as  the  former 
are  not  to  be  rejected  on  account  of  the  latter,  the  pro- 
portion of  each  should  be  ascertained,  if  a  separation  be 
not  made.  Count,  then,  a  hundred  seeds,  taken  pro- 
miscuously, and  put  them  into  water  as  before  directed. 
If  fifty  sink  and  fifty  swim,  half  your  seed  is  bad  and 
half  is  good;  and  so  in  proportion  as  to  other  numbers 
of  sinkers  and  swimmers. 

21.  "There  may  be  plants  the  sound  seeds  of  which 
will  not  sink^  but  I  know  of  none.  If  to  be  found  in 
any  instance,  they  would,  I  think,  be  found  in  those  of 
the  tulip  tree,  the  ash,  the  birch  and  parsnep,  all  of 
which  are  furnished  with  a  large  portion  of  wing. — 
Yet  all  these  if  sound^  will  sink,  if  put  into  warm  water, 
with  the  wet  worked  a  little  into  the  wings  first.  I  in- 
cline to  the  opinion,  that  we  should  try  seeds  as  our 
ancestors  tried  witches:  not  by  fire,  but  by  water;  and 
that  following  up  their  practice  we  should  reprobate 
and  destroy  all  that  do  not  readily  sink. 


TO    GERMINATE    SEEDS. 

It  is  very  important  that  many  kinds  of  seeds  should 
be  rolled  in  by  a  heavy  roller,  or  by  pressing  the  earth 
hard  upon  them  by  placing  a  board  on  the  bed,  and 
walking  across  it  several  times.  Celery,  spinage, onions, 
and  many  other  kinds  of  garden  seeds,  will  not  vege- 
tate, unless  the  earth  is  pressed  on  them  hard,  or  rolled 
after  being  sown. 


56  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Most  vegetables  thrive  better' to  shift  the  ground  al- 
ternately every  year  for  different  sorts,  as  each  kind 
draws  somewhat  different  nourishment,  on  the  principle 
<Sf  rotation  of  crops.  Onions,  however,  are  generally 
considered  an  exception  to  the  rule.  [For  particular 
directions  to  germinate,  see  1st.  vol.  Farmers'  Reporter.] 


TO    MAKE    A    KITCHEN    GARDEN. 

"Many  persons,  sensible  of  the  utility,  are  often  dis- 
couraged from  constant  attempts  in  cultivating  a  kitchen 
garden,  because  the}'^  have  experienced  some  failures 
in  particular  plants.  But  there  will  never  be  a  failure 
t}f  vegetables  enough  for  a  family's  use,  if  the  following 
requisites  be  well  guarded: — Richness  of  soil;  due  care 
in  the  selection  of  seeds,  as  already  directed:  proper 
cultivation;  and  a  sutiicient  variety  of  vegetables,  that 
'if  one  kind  fails,  another  may  be  a  substitute. 

"It  is  a  general  complaint  among  persons  who  pay 
only  little  attention  to  their  garden,  that  the  seed  often 
fail.  This  usually  happens  because  due  care  is  not 
taken  in  discriminating  between  ripe  and  unripe  seed; 
between  blighted  and  sound  seed,  and  by  inattention  to 
the  necessary  rules  for  germination. 

"Our  gardens  do  not  generally  present  variety  enough 
to  be  profitable  and  convenient  \o  the  owner,  through- 
out the  whole  year,  even  if  all  the  planting  succeeds. — 
There  is  frequently  no  provision  for  the  winter,  and 
many  a  long  month,  when  the  vegetable  kingdom  is 
locked  in  frost,  is  passed  with  no  variety  on  our  tables, 
to  excite  the  languid  appetite,  or  satisfy  that  which  is 
pleased  with  rotation.  But  surely  it  is  as  easy  to  store 
our  cellars  with  the  beet,  the  carrot,  the  onion,  the  pars- 
nep,  and  vegetable  oyster,  as  with  the  dull  monotony  of 
thepotatoc;  and  however  nutritious  the  potatoc  be,  still 
its  utiHty  cannot  be  hostile  to  the  claims  of  other,  pro- 
ductions of  the  garden. 

"We  do  not  invite  the  plough-boy  from  the  Utility  of 
his  farm,  to  the  pleasures  of  a  garden;  we  do  not  wish 
him  to  sacrifice  his  grain  fields  to  the  culture  of  a  tulip 
bod;  but  we  wish  to  call  his  attention  to  the  utility, 


GARDENING.  57 

coH-Denience,  and  economy^^  that  can  be  found  in  the  culti- 
vaiion  of  a  substantial  kitchen  garden^  from  which  his 
healthful  family  can  draw  many  of  those  really  innocent 
luxuries,  which  a  bountiful  Providence  has,  with  so 
lavish  a  hand,  spread  around  him." 

When  your  fence  is  put  in  good  order,  select  a  proper 
place  for  the  small  kind  of  fruit  shrubs,  as  gooseberries, 
currants,  and  raspberries;  for  although  you  admit  no 
trees  within  this  inclosure,  these  useful  shrubs  must  have 
a  place.  They  should  not  be  planted  around  the  fences, 
nor  through  the  centre  of  the  garden,  as  is  too  commonly 
the  practice,  but  in  a  continued  plantation,  that  they 
may  have  suitable  attention,  and  yet  not  obstruct  the 
plough. 

Gooseberries  require  a  deep  and  rich  soil.  The 
ground  between  the  rows  must  be  well  manured,  and 
kept  free  from  weeds,  and  you  should  be  careful  to 
plant  none  but  those  that  are  of  a  good  kind. 

A  good  mode  of  propagating  gooseberries,  is  by  cut- 
tings or  layers.  For  cuttings,  take  shoots  of  the  last 
year's  growth,  from  shrubs  that  are  known  to  bear  a 
choice  fruit.  Let  them  be  at  least  ten  inches  long;  cut 
off  all  the  buds,  except  three  or  four  at  the  tops,  and 
insert  the  stems  six  or  eight  inches  into  the  earth;  tread 
the  ground  firmly  around,  and  keep  them  free  from 
weeds.  When  they  have  grown  here  a  year  or  two, 
they  should  be  removed  to  the  plantation  as  soon  as  the 
frost  is  out  of  the  ground  in  the  spring,  or  in  the  au- 
tumn, which  is,  particularly  for  the  gooseberry,  the  best 
season. 

Currants  may  be  propagated  in  the  same  way.  They 
are,  however,  more  hardy,  and  do  not  require  so  rich  a 
soil.  They  should  be  placed  in  rows,  six  or  eight  feet 
apart,  and  kept  free  from  weeds.  Between  these  rows, 
you  may  raise  a  crop  of  dwarf  or  bush  beans,  (take  care 
that  there  are  no  runners,  or  vines  among  them,)  without 
the  least  injury  to  the  shrubs,  for  several  years. 

There  is  great  choice  in  currants,  as  well  as  in  other 
fruit;  select  only  the  large  red  and  white  currant,  for 
no  art  will  change   the  original  nature  of  the   fruit. 


58  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

although,  by  skilful  cultivation,  the  quality  may  be 
improved. 

The  gooseberr}-  and  currant  both  claim  the  farmers 
attention,  and  are  much  wanted  in  every  family.  They 
furnish  a  cheap  and  early  sauce,  and  the  latter  a  wine 
equal  to  the  best  Lisbon  or  Teneriffe. 

As  you  will  doubtless  wish  to  plant  other  trees,  and 
be  desirous  to  know  the  best  season  for  that  work,  I 
would  observe,  as  a  general  rule,  that  all  kinds  of  trees 
or  shrubs  should  be  moved  or  set  in  the  spring,  as  soon, 
at  least,  as  the  buds  begin  to  swell.  The  apple  tree, 
the  cherry,  and  plum,  will  grow,  if  set  with  art,  when 
the  leaves  begin  to  open,  but  not  with  health  and  vigor. 


JO    INCREASE    THE    NU3IBER    AND  I31PROVE    THE    QUALITY 

OY     PLANTS. 

To  accomplish  this,  it  is  necessary  to  facilitate  their 
mode  of  nutrition,  by  removing  all  obstacles  to  the 
progress  of  the  plant.  These  obstacles  may  either  ex- 
ist under  or  above  the  surface;  and  hence  the  origin  of 
draining,  clearing  from  the  surface,  incumbrances,  and 
.the  various  operations,  as  digging,  ploughing,  &c.  for 
pulverising  the  soil.  It  is  necessary,  or  at  least  advan- 
tageous to  supply  food  artificially;  and  hence  the  origin 
and  benefit  of  manuring.  All  organised  matters  are 
capable  of  being  converted  into  the  food  of  plants;  but 
the  best  manure  for  ameliorating  the  quality,  and  yet 
retaining  the  peculiar  chemical  properties  of  plants, 
must  necessarily  be  decayed  plants  of  their  own 
.species. 

It  is  true  that  plants  do  not  differ  greatly  in  their 
primary  principles,  and  that  a  supply  of  any  descrip- 
tion of  putrescent  manure  will  cause  all  plants  to 
thrive;  but  some  plants,  such  as  wheat  and  rye,  contain 
pecuhar  substances  as  gluten  and  phosphate  of  lime, 
and  some  manures,  as  those  of  animals  or  decayed  wheat 
and  rye,  containing  the  same  substances,  must  necessa- 
rily be  a  better  food  or  manure  for  such  plants.  The 
regulation  of  moisture  demands  attention;  for  when  the 
soil  is  pulverised,  it  is  more  easily  dried  by  the  penetra- 


GARDENING.  59 

tion  of  the  air;  where  an  increase  of  food  is  suppHed, 
the  medium  through  which  that  food  is  taken  up  by  the 
plant  should  be  increased;  and  when  the  temperature 
is  increased,  evaporation  becomes  greater. 

Hence  the  advantage  of  watering  by  surface  or 
subterraneous  irrigation,  manual  supplies  to  the  root^ 
showering  over  the  leaves,  steaming  the  surrounding' 
atmosphere,  &c. 

TO  inchease  the  number,  and  improve  the  quality 

OF  PARTS  OF  VEGETABLES. 

It  is  necessary  in  this  case,  to  remove  such  parts  of 
the  vegetable  as  are  not  wanted,  as  the  blooms  of  bul- 
bous or  tuberous  rooted  plants,  when  the  bulbs  are  to  be 
increased,  and  the  contrary.  Hence  the  important  op- 
erations of  pruning,  ringing,  cutting  off  large  roots,  &c. 
It  may  be  said  that  this  is  not  nature,  but  art;  man, 
though  an  improving  animal  is  still  in  a  state  of  nature, 
and  all  his  practices  in  every  stage  of  civilization  are  as 
natural  to  him,  as  those  of  the  other  animals  are  to  them; 

To  form  new  varieties  of  vegetables,  as  well  as  of 
flowers  and  useful  plants  of  every  description,  it  is  ne- 
cessary to  take  advantage  of  their  sexual  differences, 
and  to  operate  in  a  manner  analagous  to  crossing  the 
breed  of  animals.  Hence  the  origin  of  new  sortfe  of 
fruits,  grains,  and  roots.  New  varieties  or  rather  sub- 
varieties  are  formed  by  altering  the  habits  of  plants,  by 
dwarfing  through  want  of  nourishment,  variegating  by 
arencious  soils,  &c. 


TO  PROPAGATE  AND  PRESERVE  PLANTS  FROM  DEGENERACY. 

In  doing  this,  we  should  have  recourse  to  the  different 
modes  of  propagating  by  extension.  Thus  choice  ap- 
ples and  tree  fruits  could  not  be  perpetuated  by  sowing 
their  seed,  which  experience  has  shown,  would  produce 
progeny  more  or  less  different  from  the  parent,  but  they 
are  preserved  and  multiplied  by  grafting;  others  such 
as  the  pine  apple,  by  cuttings  or  suckers;  choice  car- 
nations by  layers;  potatoes  by  cuttings  of  the  tubers, 
&:c.  But  approved  varieties  of  vegetables  are  in  general. 


(50  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

multiplied  and  preserved  by  selecting  seeds  from  the 
finest  specimens  and  paying  suitable  attention  to  their 
culture. 


TO    PRESERVE    \'EGETABLES  FOR    FUTURE    USE. 

This  is  effected  by  destroying  or  rendering  dormant 
the  principle  of  life,  and  by  warding  off  as  far  as  prac- 
ticable the  progress  of  chemical  decomposition.  Where 
vegetables  or  fruits  are  gathered  for  use  or  preservation, 
the  air  of  the  atmosphere  which  surrounds  them  is  con- 
tinually depriving  them  of  carbon  and  forming  carbonic 
acid  gas. 

The  water  they  contain,  by  its  softening  qualities, 
weakens  the  affinity  of  their  elements  and  best  produces 
the  same  effect,  by  dilating  their  parts,  promoting  the 
decomposing  effect  both  of  air  and  water. 

Hence,  drying  in  the  sun  or  in  ovens,  is  one  of  the 
most  obvious  modes  of  preserving  vegetables  for  use  as 
food,  or  for  other  purposes,  but  not  for  growth,  if  the 
drying  process  is  carried  so  far  as  to  destroj^  the  principle 
of  life  in  the  seeds,  roots,  or  sections  of  the  shoots  of  lig- 
neous plants.  Potatoes,  turnips,  and  other  esculent 
roots  may  be  preserved  from  autumn  till  the  following 
summer,  by  drying  them  in  the  sun,  and  burying  them 
in  perfectly  dry  soil,  which  shall  be  at  the  same  time  at 
a  temperature  but  a  few  degrees  above  the  freezing 
point.  Corn  may  be  preserved  for  many  years,  by  first 
thoroughly  drying  it  in  the  sun,  and  then  burying  it  in 
dry,  cool  pits,  and  closing  them  so  as  to  exclude  the 
atmospheric  air.  The  corn  is  thus  presen  ed  from  de- 
composition, from  insects,  or  vegetation.  The  Romans 
preserved  their  corn  in  this  way  for  many  years  in 
chambers  hewn  out  of  dry  rock. 


GARDENING.  61 


DIRECTIONS 

FOR   CULTIVATING    THE    MOST    PROFITABLE    GARDEN 
VEGETABLES. 


ARTICHOKE — Aftichaut. 

It  should  be  planted  in  April  and  May,  in  fine  rich 
earth,  three-fourths  of  an  inch  deep.  In  the  course  of 
the  season,  cauliflowers,  spinach,  lettuce,  &c.  can  be 
sown  between  the  rows.  In  the  after  culture,  keep  it 
free  from  weeds  by  hoeing  between  the  rows,  which 
should  be  about  five  feet  apart,  with  the  plants  two  feet 
asunder  in  the  row. 

This,  with  occasional  waterings  in  the  dry  weather 
of  summer,  is  all  the  culture  which  they  require. 


ASPARAGUS — Asperge. 

This  delicious  esculent  vegetable,  after  due  prepara- 
tion of  the  ground,  is  easily  cultivated.  It  requires  a 
rich  sandy  loam,  well  manured  to  the  depth  of  two  and 
a  half  feet,  and  raised  one  foot  above  the  alleys: — then, 
in  addition,  a  good  quantity  of  manure,  well  trenched  in, 
fifteen  inches  below  the  surface.  A  plantation  of  one 
square  rod  is  little  enough  for  a  family;  and  to  plant 
this  requires  about  one  quart  of  seed.  It  should  be 
sown  in  April  or  May,  or  three  weeks  before  frosts  in 
autumn,  in  rows,  nine  inches  distant.  That  which  is 
sown  in  the  fall,  should  be  well  littered  to  nearly  a  foot 
thick,  to  protect  the  tender  plants  through  the  first  win- 
ter. Let  the  crop,  the  first  and  second  year,  and  nearly 
all  the  third  year,  run  up  to  seed.  Water  it  occasion- 
ally till  the  third  or  fourth  year — loosen  the  ground 
every  spring  before  budding,  with  a  proper  fork,  and 
keep  it  clean  of  weeds  during  the  season.  At  the  ap- 
proach of  winter,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  dung  to  the 
depth  of  an  inch  or  more. 

In  the  third  or  fourth  year,  according  to  the  perfec- 
tion of  the  plants,  cut  the  shoots  for  use,  three  inches 

F 


62  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

below  the  surface,  as  often  as  they  spring  up,  till  the 
twentieth  of  June,  then  let  them  run  up  to  seed.  This 
method  will  afford  good  crops  for  ten  or  twelve  years  at 
least. — The  seed  is  best  preserved  in  the  berry. 

In  addition  to  the  agreeable  flavor,  and  nutritious 
quality  of  this  plant,  it  is  thought  to  be  a  good  palliative, 
or  remedy  in  the  gravel. 


BEANS — Feve, 

English  Dwarfs, — Plant  in  February  or  March — the 
great  object  is  to  get  them  into  the  ground  as  early  as 
possible;  whenever  the  frost  intermits,  and  the  earth  is 
workable,  do  not  lose  the  opportunity.  A  strong  heavy 
soil  is  most  suitable.  The  broad  Windsor  and  nonpareil 
are  best  for  the  table.  Plant  in  rows,  two  feet  and  a 
half  apart,  three  or  four  inches  distant  in  the  row,  and 
about  the  same  deep,  which  will  preserve  them  through 
any  subsequent  frost.  Use  a  dibble  with  a  blunt  end  to 
make  a  wider  aperture  for  each  bean,  to  admit  it  down 
to  the  bottom  without  any  hollow  below.  Pinch  the 
tops  off  when  in  bloom,  otherwise  they  will  run  too 
much  to  flower,  and  have  but  few  pods.  They  will  be 
fit  for  the  table  in  June.  Gather  them  when  quite 
young.  Shell  them,  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water  with  a 
little  salt,  add  a  few  stalks  of  spear  mint  (mentha  vii'idis) 
which  gives  them  a  fine  flavor.  Serve  up  with  melted 
butter. 

Kidney  dwarfs  or  snaps — Haricot, — Plant  about  the 
latter  end  of  April  for  a  first  crop,  in  rich  well  bro- 
ken ground,  and  at  intervals  through  the  season — they 
Avill  be  fit  for  the  table  in  about  six  weeks  from  the 
time  of  planting.  The  Mohawk  is  the  earliest  and  har- 
diest, and  will  even  bear  a  slight  frost  without  injury. 
The  Quaker  Bean  and  Warrington  are  fine  sorts,  and 
the  Refugee  is  well  known  for  long  bearing.  Sow  in 
rovrs  from  two  to  three  feet  apart,  drop  the  beans  be- 
tween two  and  three  inches  distant,  and  cover  them 
about  an  inch.  The  dwarf  is  a  native  of  India,  and 
the  runner  of  South  America. 


GARDENING.  63 

When  pulled  for  cooking,  cut  off  the  stalk  end  first, 
and  then  turn  to  the  point  and  strip  off  the  strings.  If 
not  quite  fresh,  have  a  howl  of  spring  water,  with  a 
little  salt  dissolved  in  it,  and  as  the  beans  are  cleaned 
and  stringed,  throw  them  in.  Then  put  them  on  the 
fire  in  boiling  water,  with  some  salt  in  it;  when  they 
are  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  pour  them  into  a  colander  to  drain.  They 
should  always  be  cooked  young,  and  then  the  best 
method  is  to  keep  them  whole,  as  it  preserves  their  deli- 
cate flavor  and  color.  When  a  little  more  grown,  they 
must  be  cut  across  in  two  after  stringing. 

Pole  or  running — Haricots  a  rames, — If  your  soil  is 
poor,  make  it  rich.  Plant  in  hills  about  four  ^cat  apart 
each  way,  leaving  three  beans  to  a  hill,  during  the  se- 
cond and  third  week  of  May.  They  are  extremely 
productive,  and  yield  till  stopped  by  the  cold  weather. 


BENE  PLANT. — Scsamum  orientale. 
This  was  introduced  into  the  Southern  States  by  the 
negroes  from  Africa.  It  abounds  in  many  parts  of 
Africa.  Sonnini  and  Brown,  travellers  in  Egjpt,  say  it 
is  much  cultivated  there  for  the  purpose  of  feeding 
horses,  and  for  culinary  purposes.  The  negroes  in 
Georgia  boil  a  handful  of  the  seeds  Avith  their  allowance 
of  Indian  Corn.  Probably  no  plant  yields  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  oil,  which  Dr.  Cooper  of  Philadelphia  has 
pronounced  equal  to  the  finest  olive  oil.  But  it  is 
worthy  of  cultivation  in  the  Northern  States  principally 
as  a  medicinal  plant.  A  gentleman  in  Virginia  has 
given  Messrs.  Thornburn  &l  Son  the  following  account 
of  its  virtues.  '•  It  requires  to  be  sown  early  in  April, 
at  a  distance  of  about  one  foot  apart.  A  few  leaves  of 
the  plant,  when  green,  plunged  a  few  times  in  a  tumbler 
of  water,  makes  it  like  a  thin  jelly,  without  taste  or 
color,  which  children  afflicted  with  the  summer  com- 
plaint will  drink  freely,  and  is  said  to  be  the  best 
rem.edy  ever  discovered.  It  has  been  supposed,  that 
(under  Providence)  the  lives  of  three  hundred  children 
were  saved  by  it  last  summer  in  Baltimore,  and  I  know 


64  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  efficacy  of  it  by  experience  in  my  own  family."-^ 
This  plant  will  throw  out  a  greater  profusion  of  leaves, 
by  breaking  off  the  top  when  it  is  about  half  grown. 


BEET. — Betterave. 

Sow  from  the  middle  of  May  to  June  in  drills  a  foot 
apart — thin  out  the  plants  to  about  eight  inches.  Have 
your  ground  rich  and  dig  it  deep.  The  plants  will  be 
fit  to  use  during  the  summer,  and  must  be  taken  up 
about  the  end  of  October.  Trim  the  tops  off,  and  put 
them  away  in  the  cellar. 

Beets  are  highly  recommended  for  fattening  cattle, 
and  are  used  by  some  people  like  other  vegetables  to 
all  kinds  of  meat;  but  they  are  most  suitable  to  corned 
and  roast  beef.  They  are  also  used  as  a  pickle,  and 
form  a  beautiful  garnish. 

The  red  beet  is  a  native  of  the  Sea  Coast  of  the 
South  of  Europe. 

The  Sir  John  Sinclair  Beet  is  a  luxuriant  growing 
variety.  The  IcavcG  are  from  two  and  a  half  to  three 
feet  in  length,  and  can  be  frequently  cropped;  at  the 
same  time  care  must  be  taken  not  to  injure  the  centre 
or  crown  of  the  plant;  they  are  as  tender  as  lettuce,  and 
can  be  boiled  and  served  up  like  spinage,  which  they 
excel.  Sow  and  cultivate  like  the  common  Beet. — 
They  come  early  to  maturity,  continue  thrifty  through- 
out the  season,  and  are  remarkable  for  standing  the 
severest  drought. 

The  Mangel  Wurtzel  is  the  Beta-cicla  of  the  family 
of  the  Beet,  sometimes  called  the  Root  of  Scarcity, 
and  likewise  called  the  White  Sugar  Beet,  much  cele- 
brated in  England  and  Prussia.  The  following  are  the 
directions  for  its  field  culture:  Time  of  sowing,  months 
of  April  and  May.  Prepare  a  plot  or  field,  as  for  tur- 
nips or  potatoes;  open  two  drills  with  the  plough,  two 
ie^t  apart,  and  put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  dung,  ac- 
cording to  the  ground;  then  cover  the  dung  with  the 
plough  twice,  by  ridging  them  up  as  high  as  can  be 
well  done,  with  a  man  shovelling  between  the  drillf 
right  and  left,  smoothing  the  surface  of  the  ridge  above 


GARDENING.  65 

the  dung,  which  will  leave  a  space  of  ten  or  twelve 
inches  broad.  This  complete  method  of  fallov.ing  v>'ill 
repay  the  trouble  of  shovelling,  by  raising  a  full  pro- 
portion of  earth  under  the  roots.  After  sowing,  it 
should  be  well  rolled,  which  completes  the  whole  pro- 
cess. The  crop  to  be  afterwards  treated  the  same  as 
that  of  turnips  or  potatoes,  by  putting  and  taking  off 
mould,  &c.  After  the  roots  have  been  raised,  tlie 
ground  is  in  a  remarkable  fine  situation  for  v/lieat  or 
any  other  crop:  sow  three  pounds  per  acre. 

Domestic  animals  eat  the  leaves  and  roots  v/ith  great 
avidity:  both  are  good  for  feeding  swine,  and  are  not 
less  eagerly  devoured  than  corn.  They  are  excellent 
for  milch  cows,  and  possess  the  quality  of  making  them 
give  a  large  quantity  of  the  best  flavoured  milk. 


BORECOLE. — Brassica  olcracea  selenisia. 
Sown  in  May.— Valuable  for  winter  and  spring  greens, 
when  the  frost  is  not  too  pov»^erful  for  it.  It  is  generally 
recommended  to  transplant  them  into  trenches,  and 
cover  them  with  straw  before  winter,  that  the  heads 
may  be  cut  off  as  wanted.  In  spring,  plant  out  the 
stems,  which  send  forth  delicious  sprouts. 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. — Brassictt  olcracea  var. 

This  is  an  open  headed  cabbage;  grows  very  high, 
and  produces  a  great  quantity  of  excellent  sprouts  in 
spring.  To  be  sown  in  May,  and  treated  like  cabbages; 
should  be  covered  in  the  fall. 


BROCCOLI — Chou  Broccoli, 

The  Broccoli  generally  succeeds  well  in  our  climate ; 
and  is  a  very  delicious  vegetable,  resem.bling  the 
cauliflower.  The  seed  should  be  sown  the  last  of  May 
for  a  full  late  crop.  In  July  plant  them  out  in  rows, 
two  and  a  half  feet  apart,  on  a  rich  soil.  Thc>'  will 
flower  in  October.  The  earlier  planted  ones  will  flow- 
er in  August  and  September.     If  any  of  the  late  plants 

f2 


66  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

should  not  flower  before  frost  sets  in,  take  them  care- 
fully up,  and  plant  them  in  a  warm  cellar;  they  will 
ilower  before  spring. 


CABBAGE Choil, 

Sow  your  seed  in  September,  (in  frames,)  March  and 
April,  in  the  open  air  for  early  sorts,  in  May,  for  late. 
For  transplanting,  if  you  can,  choose  warm  showery 
weather:  and  if  the  plants  wilt  down  very  much,  water 
them  at  evening,  with  rain  water,  or  any  other  water 
that  has  been  kept  through  the  day,  in  a  tub,  or  bucket, 
so  as  to  be  sufficiently  warmed.  And  it  may  be  well 
to  observe  here,  once  for  all,  that  in  watering  plants, 
the  water  should  never  be  poured  down  in  a  large 
stream  or  flood  about  the  roots,  as  this  would  serve  to 
wash  away  from  them  the  surrounding  earth  and  the 
nourishment  they  need,  but  should  be  turned  through 
a  sieve,  or  watering  pot,  sparingly  at  once,  but  repea- 
ted several  times,  till  the  surrounding  earth  is  suffi- 
ciently moistened; — and  this  operation  should  be  gene- 
rally performed  at  evening,  that  the  plants  may  have 
the  benefit  of  not  having  the  water  too  soon  evapora- 
ted by  the  sun. 

The  ground  should  be  often  stirred.  It  may  be  un- 
necessary to  mention,  that  with  this,  as  with  all  other 
vegetables,  the  best  seed  is  obtained  from  the  best 
plants;  they  should  therefore  be  selected; — and  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  place  them  too  near  those  of  an 
inferior  variety,  as  the  seed  may  thereby  become  adul- 
terated.    The  seed  will  keep  good  six  or  eight  years. 

N.  B.  When  cabbages  are  inclined  to  go  to  seed 
without  heading,  grasp  the  stalks  and  start  the  roots  a 
little  by  pulling  up:  this  vrill  cause  them  to  produce 
heads. 

Cow  CABBAGE — Brassicu  olcracea. — This  plant  is  of 
recent  introduction  into  this  country.  It  should  be 
cultivated  in  the  same  manner  as  the  common  cab- 
bage. [For  its  valuable  properties,  see  1st  vol.  Far- 
mers' Reporter.] 


GARDENING.  67 

CARROT —  Carotte, 

The  Earlv  Horn  and  Orang-e  are  esteemed  best  for 
family  use.  The  directions  for  beets  will  answer  for 
carrots,  only  leave  the  plants  four  inches  apart  in  the 
rows.  Sow  from  April  to  July,  in  a  light,  mellow,  and 
sandy  soil,  dig  one  or  two  spades  deep.  The  orange 
and  red  sorts  require  a  soil  deeper  than  the  horn  carrot. 

The  carrot  is  common  by  the  road  side  in  many  parts 
of  Britain ;  and  once  upon  a  time  the  ladies  there  wore 
carrot  leaves  instead  of  feathers.  A  curious  chimney 
ornament  can  be  formed  by  cutting  off  a  section  from 
the  head  of  a  carrot  which  contains  the  bud,  and  pla- 
cing it  in  a  shallow  vessel  of  water.  "Young  and 
delicate  leaves  unfold  themselves,  forming  a  radiated 
tuft,  of  a  very  handsome  appearance." 

It  is  used  in  soups  and  stews,  and  as  a  vegetable  diet 
to  boil  with  beef  or  mutton. 


CAULIFLOWER ChoU  JltUY, 

Sow  about  the  middle  of  September  in  an  open  bor- 
der, and  give  moderate  waterings  if  the  weather  be  dry. 
About  the  end  of  October  transplant  into  a  good  frame, 
after  cutting  otf  the  long  tap  roots  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  put  the  plants  four  inches  apart  each  way.  Water 
gently,  put  on  the  lights,  and  shade  them  a  few  days. 
Before  the  cold  weather  sets  in,  apply  a  good  outside 
lining  of  horse  dung  round  the  frame;  and  when  it  be- 
comes severe,  the  frame  must  be  covered  with  boards 
and  salt  hay,  or  bags,  or  straw  mats,  sufficient  to  keep 
out  the  frost.  Admit  air  and  light  freely,  to  prevent 
the  plants  being  drawn  up  weak,  at  the  same  time  you 
must  be  careful  not  to  freeze  them.  In  soft  mild  days 
take  off  the  lights  entirely.  Towards  the  middle  of 
March,  the  weather  will  probably  allow  of  the  frame 
being  fully  exposed  every  day,  but  run  the  sash  on  when 
it  storms,  and  cover  the  frame  at  night  when  frosty. 
About  the  tenth  of  April,  prepare  the  fnial  beds  for  the 
plants  to  liower  in,  by  digghig  and  manuring  them  well. 
The  ground  need  not  be  raked,  if  it  be  well  broken  and 
dug  level,  as  raking  is  apt  to  make  it  crust  over.     Wa- 


68  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

ter  a  little  before  transplanting,  if  the  weather  be  dry, 
and  raise  each  plant  with  a  ball  of  earth,  which  you 
must  take  great  care  not  to  break,  as  it  is  of  great  im- 
portance to  the  success  of  the  cauliflower  that  its  growth 
should  not  be  checked  at  this  period.  Plant  two  feet 
or  two  feet  and  a  half  apart  each  way.  "Should  any 
of  the  plants  be  attacked  by  the  black  grub-worm,  exa- 
mine them  every  morning  for  ten  or  twelve  days;  and 
when  any  of  them  are  cut  off,  search  for  the  worm  near 
the  plant,  and  kill  it,  as  it  will  be  found  within  two  oi 
three  inches  of  the  stem,  and  half  an  inch  below  the 
surface;  then  replace  the  plant.  If  you  suffer  them 
to  escape,  they  will  gather  strength  and  quickly  destroy 
a  whole  planting." 

This  vegetable  is  extremely  delicate,  and  is  esteemed 
equal  to  young  peas  and  the  Lima  bean.  However,  a 
great  deal  depends  upon  the  cooking,  and  its  excellence 
may  be  destroyed  by  an  ignorant  or  careless  manner  of 
preparing  it  for  the  table.  Cut  when  close  and  white, 
and  of  the  middle  size;  trim  otf  some  of  the  outside 
leaves;  cut  the  stalk  off  flat  at  the  bottom,  and  let  it 
lie  in  salt  and  water  a  little  while.  Put  it  into  boiling 
water  with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it;  have  plenty  of  water, 
and  keep  the  vessel  uncovered;  skim  the  water  well;  a 
small  cauliflower  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes  and  a 
large  one  twenty:  take  it  up  as  soon  as  a  fork  will  enter 
the  stem  easily,  a  minute  or  two  longer  boiling  will 
spoil  it.  Eat  it  with  the  gravy  from  the  meat,  or  with 
melted  butter. 


CUCUMBER — Coucomhre. 

The  best  kinds  for  early  planting  are  the  early  frame, 
green  cluster,  and  long  prickly.  Plant  in  the  open 
ground,  about  the  first  week  of  May,  in  hills  four  feet 
apart,  both  for  the  general  crop  and  for  the  pickling 
sorts;  make  the  ground  rich  with  vegetable  mould  and 
rotted  cow  dung,  and  leave  only  one  good  plant  in  each 
hill.  If  the  provoking  yellow  fly  attacks  your  plants, 
examine  them  frequently,  and  throw  tobacco  dust  or 
soot  round  the  vines.     Some  recommend  to  nip  oflf  the 


GARDENING.  69 

first  runner  bud,  which  causes  them  to  grow  more  stocky 
and  become  more  fruitful  plants.  Keep  them  clear  of 
weeds,  and  give  plenty  of  water  in  warm  dry  weather. 
We  would  suggest  whether  it  would  not  be  advanta- 
geous to  grow  the  cucumber  in  a  little  concavity  or 
hollow,  as  water  could  then  be  effectively  applied  in 
warm  weather.  Give  water  at  any  time  of  the  day  if 
necessary.  Cobbett  ridicules  the  idea  of  impregnating 
the  female  blossom  with  the  male,  and  he  is  sometimes 
right;  though  it  is  a  practice  followed  by  many  of  the 
best  English  gardeners. 


CELERY —  Celeri. 

Sow  about  the  middle  of  April,  in  a  rich,  moist  soil; 
if  not  rich,  make  it  so  by  mixing  in  fresh  vegetable 
mould  or  short  well  rotted  manure.  Dig  deep,  and  rake 
it  fine  and  smooth.  Sow  the  seed  liberally  all  over  the 
surface,  and  beat  the  bed  evenly  and  firmly  with  a  clean 
spade;  then  sift  on  a  covering  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
of  earth,  and  it  will  vegetate  as  soon  as  cabbage  seed. 

The  following  directions  for  its  after  culture,  are 
given  by  Mr.  Fessenden  in  his  "New  American  Gar- 
dener." 

"When  either  the  plants  left  in  the  seed-bed,  or  those 
removed,  are  from  six  to  twelve  inches  high,  or  when 
the  latter  have  acquired  a  stocky  growth,  by  four  or  five 
week's  nurture  in  the  intermediate  bed,  transplant  them 
into  trenches  for  blanching.  For  this  purpose  allot  an 
open  compartment.  Mark  out  the  trenches  a  foot  wide, 
and  from  three  to  three  and  a  half  distant;  dig  out 
each  trench  lengthwise  ten  or  twelve  inches  in  width, 
and  a  light  spit  deep,  that  is,  six  or  eight  inches.  Lay 
the  earth  dug  out  equally  on  each  side  of  the  trench; 
put  about  three  inches  of  very  rotten  dung  into  the 
trench,  then  pare  the  sides,  and  dig  the  dung  and  pa- 
rings with  an  inch  or  two  of  the  loose  mould  at  the 
bottom. 

Trim  the  tops  and  roots  of  the  plants,  and  then  set 
them  in  single  rows  along  the  middle  of  each  trench, 
allowing  four  or  five  inches  distance  from  plant  to  plant. 


70  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

When  this  work  is  finished,  give  the  plants  water  in 
plenty,  and  occasionally  water  them  from  time  to  time, 
if  the  weather  he  dry,  and  likewise  let  them  he  shaded 
till  they  strike  root  and  begin  to  grow.  When  they 
have  grown  to  the  height  of  eight  or  ten  inches,  draw 
earth  to  each  side  of  them,  breaking  it  fine.  This 
should  be  done  in  dry  weather,  being  careful  not  to 
bury  the  hearts.  Repeat  the  earthing  once  in  ten  days, 
till  the  plants  are  fit  for  use.  Be  careful,  however,  not 
to  draw  up  too  much  earth  to  the  plants  at  first,  lest  they 
be  smothered;  and  leave  them  in  a  little  hollow,  that 
they  may  receive  the  full  benefit  of  the  waterings, 
rain,  tSic." 

Care  should  be  taken  when  earthing,  not  to  do  it 
when  the  ground  is  wet.  It  should  be  done  in  the  after 
part  of  a  dry  day,  for  if  the  earth  be  wet  the  celery  will 
rust.  Instead  of  earthing  up  once  in  ten  days,  as  re- 
commended above,  I  would  suggest  the  propriety  of 
having  it  done  as  often  as  twice  in  a  week  at  least. 
This  will  subdue  the  weeds  and  nourish  the  plants  more 
than  the  former  process. 


CRESS  GARDEN. — Lcpiduim  sativum. 

This  vegetable  is  raised  from  seed,  of  which  one 
ounce  is  sufficient  for  a  bed  four  feet  square. 

"Sow  the  seed  very  thick,  and  earth  over  very  light- 
ly, or  just  thinly  cover.  Give  occasional  waterings  in 
dry  weather.-' 

To  gather  cress  in  perfection,  cut  the  plants  when 
moderately  young,  either  quite  down  to  the  roots,  or  only 
the  tops  of  those  most  advanced.  They  will  shoot 
again  for  future  gathering,  but  the  leaves  will  be 
hotter,  and  not  so  mild  and  tender  as  those  of  younger 
plants. 


CURRANT RibcS, 

They  require  an  improved  clay  soil,  somewhat  moist. 
It  should  be  well  dug  up  two  ieci  deep — then  set  the 
thrifty  sprouts  of  last  year's  growth,  eight  inches  deep 
and  two  feet  apart;   cut  cfF  the  tops  so  as  to  leave  but 


GARDENING.  71 

three  or  four  buds  above  the  ground.  Keep  the  roots 
free  from  suckers  and  grass,  and  you  will  soon  have 
currants  enough  to  make  your  own  wine,  for  which  the 
following,  by  Dr.  Green,  is  a  good  receipt: 

Take  clean  ripe  currants,  bruise  and  press  out  the 
juice  and  add  twice  as  much  water.  To  every  gallon 
of  this  mixture  add  three  and  a  fourth  pounds  of  clean 
sugar,  and  one  gill  of  brandy — also,  one-fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  pulverized  alum — put  the  whole  into  a  clean 
cask;  and  in  March  draw  off,  and  add  another  gill  of 
brandy  to  each  gallon.  This  wine  is  excellent,  and 
improves  by  age. 

ENDIVE  OR  SUCCORY — Chicorec^ 

Sow  in  July,  and  when  four  or  six  inches  high,  trans- 
plant into  ground  in  fine  order,  in  rows  fifteen  inches 
apart  each  way.  They  must  be  hoed  and  kept  clear 
the  same  as  lettuce,  and  where  the  soil  is  high  and  dry, 
earth  them  up  half  way;  but  if  moist,  merely  tie 
them.  The  two  curled  sorts,  if  neatly  earthed  up,  will 
blanch  pretty  well  without  being  tied,  but  the  Bata- 
vian,  from  its  loftier,  looser  growth,  hearts  and  blanches 
better  with  a  bandage.  This  must  be  done  when 
nearly  full  grown,  and  when  the  leaves  are  dry;  tie 
moderately  tight  near  the  top  with  a  piece  of  bass  mat. 
By  thus  excluding  the  light  from  the  inner  leaves,  they 
become  blanched,  crisp,  tender,  and  fit  for  use. 

The  endive  is  a  hardy  annual,  and  a  native  of  China 
and  Japan.     It  is  used  in  salads  and  stews. 

The  root  of  the  wild  endive  is  very  wholesome  and 
nutritious.  It  is  highly  esteemed  in  France,  and  forms 
a  prominent  ingredient  in  producing  the  very  superior 
flavor  of  continental  coffee.  The  aromatic  and  vola- 
tile qualities  of  coffee  are,  by  the  combination  of  this 
root,  rendered  more  mellow  and  full  upon  the  palate, 
and  its  fragrance  greatly  increased,  producing  an 
agreeable  tonic  and  most  exhilarating  beverage. 

Sow  in  drills  in  April,  about  a  foot  and  a  half  apart, 
and  thin  out  to  seven  or  eight  inches  distance  in  the 
row.  In  the  fall  take  up  the  root,  dry  and  grind  it, 
and  use  two  ounces  of  the  powder  to  a  pound  of  coffee. 


72  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

EGG    PLANT,    OR    MELONGENE Mdotlgcne  OU  Aubc. 

Sow  in  hot  beds  in  March,  in  the  open  air  in  May. 
They  should  be  raised  about  two  feet  asunder,  with  a 
little  earth  drawn  up  round  their  stems;  when  about  a 
foot  high,  they  will  produce  plenty  of  fruit,  of  most 
beautiful  appearance.  When  sliced  and  nicely  fried, 
with  ham,  &c.  they  are  esteemed  as  a  delicious  vegeta- 
ble. It  is  difficult,  however,  to  make  the  seed  vegetate 
in  the  open  air — should  always  be  started  in  hot  beds. 


FENNEL — Ancthum  Faeniailum, 
The  earth  for  this  plant  should  be  light.  Sow  as 
early  in  the  spring  as  the  ground  gets  warm,  in  drills 
from  six  to  twelve  inches  apart,  or  scatter  the  seed 
broadcast  and  rake  them  in.  "When  the  plants  are 
three  or  four  inches  high,  thin  or  transplant  a  quantity 
fifteen  inches  apart.  They  will  produce  immediately 
leaves  for  present  supply,  and  in  continuance;  or  for  an 
immediate  larger  supply  of  leaves  you  may  procure 
some  established  full  roots,  and  plant  as  above:  let  them 
be  well  watered. 

"The  tender  stalks  of  common  Fennel  are  used  in 
salads;  the  leaves,  boiled,  enter  into  many  fine  sauces; 
and  raw,  and  garnishes  for  several  dishes.  The 
blanched  stalks  are  good  with  oil,  vinegar,  and  pepper, 
as  a  cold  salad." 


GOOSEBERRY —  Vitra  grosidaria. 
Plant  the  cuttings  in  the  fall  just  before  they  cast 
their  leaves.  Wine  is  made  from  gooseberries,  in  the 
same  manner  as  from  currants,  only  using  one-third 
less  sugar.  The  unripe  fruit  may  be  kept  in  bottles  of 
water,  in  a  cool  place,  till  winter. 


KALE — Chou  d  Ecosse, 

The  Sea  Kale  grows  spontaneously  on  many  parts  of 

the  seacoast  of  England.     The  inhabitants  seek  for  it 

in  the  spring,  and  remove    the  pebbles  or  sand  with 

which  it  is  usually  covered  to  the  depth   of  several 


GARDENING.  73 

inches,  and  cut  off  the  young  and  tender  leaves  and 
stalks,  as  yet  unexpandcd,  and  in  a  blanched  state,  close 
to  the  crown  of  the  root. 

It  is  easily  raised  in  the  interior — is  very  hardy — 
grows  in  almost  any  dry  soil — is  perennial,  and  costs  but 
little  labor,  and  may  be  raised  from  the  seed  or  the  root; 
(if  raised  from  the  seed^  it  should  be  cracked  before  plant- 
ings or,  what  is  much  better,  plant  the  new  seed  in 
October^  as  soon  as  ripe^  when  they  will  grow  freely — the 
seed  is  hard  to  vegetate,  if  kept  till  spring.)  Fifty 
plants,  occupying  a  very  small  space,  will  supply  a 
family.  In  its  taste  it  resembles  the  cauliflower.  The 
only  labor  it  requires,  is  to  cover  it  with  sand  or  earth, 
with  pots  or  boxes,  in  March,  to  blanch  it,  or  make  it 
white.  If  not  blanched,  it  is  not  so  beautiful  to  the  eye, 
or  so  tender,  or  so  delicate  to  the  taste,  as  if  blanched. 
It  should  be  very  thoroughly  boiled^  and  is  better  if  boiled 
in  milk  and  water.  It  should  be  served  up,  like  cauli- 
flower, with  melted  buttei*.  It  comes  in  at  a  season 
when  our  vegetables  in  this  country  are  very  deficient. 
Sown  in  April  and  May,  and  in  October,  (with  the  nevf 
seed,)  as  above  directed. 


LETTUCE — Laitue* 
This  requires  a  rich  mellow  soil.  A  bed  four  by  ten 
ieet  requires  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  seed.  Sow  in 
any  or  every  month  from  the  opening  of  spring  till  Au- 
gust. It  may  be  sown  broadcast,  or  in  drills  with  the 
rows  from  twelve  to  fifteen  inches  distant ;  or  it  may  be 
sown  with  any  young  perennials,  that  stand  far  enough 
apart. 


MELON — Melon, 
Of  these  there  are  many  varieties  of  each,  all  re- 
quiring nearly  the  same  culture; — they  should  be  planted 
remote  from  cucumbers,  squashes,  gourds  and  pumpkins, 
to  prevent  adulteration  and  degeneracy.  Seed  is  best 
after  it  has  been  kept  two  years.  It  will  grow  if  twenty 
years  old, — and  it  should  be  carried  in  the  pocket  a  week 
or  two  before  planting. 


74  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

It  requires  an  unexhausted  loam,  not  too  light.  In 
May  dig  up  a  piece  well  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  lay  it 
off  in  squares  of  six  feet — at  the  angles  dig  holes  twelve 
inches  deep  and  eighteen  inches  over,  into  these  put  six 
or  eight  inches  of  well  rotted  dung,  and  mix  it  well 
with  some  of  the  earth, — draw  the  remainder  of  the 
earth  over  to  form  hills  of  a  foot  across;  then  plant 
seven  or  eight  seeds  in  each  hill,  two  inches  apart,  and 
cover  them  half  an  inch  deep.  When  they  have  grown, 
so  that  you  can  be  sure  of  two  or  three  that  will  stand, 
pull  the  rest  out — draw  the  earth  from  time  to  time  as 
high  as  the  seed  leaves.  It  may  be  well  to  bury  every 
fourth  or  fifth  joint  to  take  new  roots.  When  the  young 
melons  are  as  large  as  walnuts,  put  under  them  shin- 
gles, or  boards,  to  keep  them  dry  and  warm — they  will 
be  better  for  it. 


MUSTARD — Sinapis, 

The  white,  for  salad  or  greens,  should  be  sown  in  the 
fore  part  of  the  season,  in  warm  sunny  places.  In  mid- 
summer it  should  be  sown  in  sandy  ground.  It  should 
be  planted  in  flat  drills,  from  three  to  six  inches  apart, 
and  covered  half  an  inch  deep. 

Black  mustard  is  sown  in  the  field  in  March  or  April 
for  the  mill,  in  drills  from  six  to  twelve  inches  asunder, 
or  it  may  be  sown  broadcast  and  raked  or  harrowed  in. 
When  two  or  three  inches  high,  it  should  be  hoed  and 
thinned  out.     It  ripens  in  July  or  August. 


NASTRiUM —  Capucine. 
This  is  deserving  of  cultivation  on  account  of  its 
beautiful  orange  colored  flowers,  its  excellence  in 
salads,  and  its  use  in  garnishing  dishes.  The  grain, 
berries,  or  seeds  of  this  plant,  which  it  produces 
abundantly,  make  an  estimable  pickle:  in  the  opinion 
of  many  preferable  to  capers.  It  is  sown  in  drills  in 
April  and  May,  nearly  an  inch  deep.  When  about  six 
inches  high,  it  should  have  sticks  placed  to  climb 
upon,  or  they  may  be  planted  by  the  side  of  fences, 
palings,  &c. 


GARDENING.  75 

OKRA- — Gomho, 
Sown  in  the  beginning  of  INIay — used  as  an  ingre- 
dient in  soups,  and  is  a  beautiful  ornamental  plant.  It 
is  cultivated  extensively  in  the  West  Indies.  Its  ripe 
seeds  burned  and  used  like  coffee,  can  scarcely  be  dis- 
tinguished therefrom.  It  should  be  planted  an  inch 
deep,  and  hoed  two  or  three  times  like  pease. 


ONION — Allium  cepa. 

For  onions  a  rich  mellow  soil  is  best;  and  they  may 
be  sown  on  the  same  ground,  if  well  manured,  many 
times  in  succession.  Rotten  dung  mixed  with  ashes, 
soot,  or  pulverised  charcoal  makes  the  best  manure  for 
this  vegetable.  After  soAving,  spread  over  ashes  and 
sand,  and  roll  or  flat  down  the  beds  with  a  spade,  or 
board  as  already  directed.  The  beds  should  be  raised 
three  or  four  inches  above  the  alleys,  and  sown  in  drills, 
twelve  inches  apart,  as  soon  as  the  ground  is  dry  enough 
to  work  in  the  spring; — they  should  stand  three  or  four 
inches  distant  in  the  drills.  For  early  onions  sow  the 
last  of  August  for  next  spring's  crop.  And  in  the 
spring,  as  soon  as  they  are  large  enough,  draw  them 
out  for  use,  till  July;  and  let  those  that  remain  till  that 
time,  run  up  to  seed. 

The  beds  should  be  kept  clean  and  loose.  Keep  the 
manure  near  the  surface,  where  the  roots  can  reach  it. 
If  the  tops  grow  too  fast  they  maj^  be  broken  down. — 
When  they  are  pulled  they  should  be  laid  in  the  sun, 
and  often  turned  for  five  or  six  days  to  dry.  Then  if 
they  are  roped  up,  and  kept  dry  and  cool,  they  will  be 
best  preserved. 

A  few  leaves  of  parsley  eaten  with  vinegar,  will  cor- 
rect bad  breath  from  onions. 

The  Top  or  Tree  Onion  has  the  remarkable  property 
of  producing  the  onions  at  the  top  of  the  stalk — and  is 
valuable  for  domestic  use,  particularly  for  pickling,  in 
which  they  are  excellent,  and  superior  in  flavor  to  the 
common  kinds.  It  is  also  used  for  any  other  purpose 
that  onions  usually  are.  It  is  perennial  and  propagated 
by  planting  the  bulbs  in  spring  or  autumn,  either  the 


76  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

root  bulbs,  or  those  on  the  top  of  the  stalks.  The 
latter  if  planted  in  spring,  as  directed  for  the  other 
kinds,  will  produce  very  fine,  handsome  sized  onions  of 
excellent  flavor.  The  root  bulbs  increase  greatly  by 
offsets,  and  should  be  taken  up  once  in  every  two  or 
three  years,  when  the  stems  decay  in  autumn,  and  re- 
planted again  to  produce  a  supply  of  top  bulbs. 

The  Potatoe  Onion  is  of  late  introduction  into  our 
country.  It  possesses  the  singular  property  of  produ- 
cing from  one  onion,  six  or  seven  in  a  clump,  under 
ground,  similar  to  potatoes.  It  partakes  of  the  mild- 
ness of  the  onion  of  Portugal,  grows  very  large,  and  is 
easily  cultivated.  Prepare  your  land  in  the  best  man- 
ner, and  plant  out  one  onion  in  a  hill,  the  hills  to  be 
one  and  a  half  feet  apart.  The  ground  should  be  fre- 
quently hoed  about  them.  It  does  not  produce  seed  as 
other  onions,  but  is  increased  by  the  root. 


POTATO. 

To  raise  a  crop  of  potatoes,  authors  and  practical 
men  are  not  agreed,  as  to  the  propriety  of  cutting  the 
potatoes  for  planting.  Some  prefer  to  plant  them 
whole,  however  large,  while  others  advise  to  cut  off 
the  watery,  or  seed  end,  as  it  would  run  too  much  to 
vines,  or  haulm,  and  to  reject  the  dry,  or  root  end,  as 
too  tardy  in  its  growth;  and  to  cut  the  remainder  of 
the  tuber,  into  pieces  of  one  eye;  and  to  plant  the  eyes 
uppermost.  But  this  seems  to  be  an  unnecessary  waste 
of  seed.  Better  cut  the  whole  potato  into  pieces,  or 
plant  it  whole,  or  even  cut  off  the  watery  half,  or  seed 
end  for  planting,  and  use  what  remains  for  the  table. — 
After  cutting,  let  them  be  dried  in  the  sun,  or  wet  and 
rolled  in  plaster.  For  early  potatoes  plant  the  largest — 
the  smallest  will  do  for  a  late  crop,  if  they  are  planted 
in  good  season. 

Let  the  ground  be  ploughed  deep  and  trenched,  or 
furrowed  two  feet  apart,  then  plant  your  seed,  from 
eight  inches  to  a  foot  apart,  one  piece  in  a  place,  on 
long  dung,  and  cover  them  six  inches  with  earth. — Hoe 
them  two  or  three  times  before  they  blossom,  and  not 


GARDENING.  77 

afterwards.  When  you  raise  your  crop,  let  the  sun 
shine  on  them  as  httle  as  possible:  if  it  turns  them 
green  they  are  poison.  They  should  be  kept  as  cool  as 
may  be  without  freezing,  and  somewhat  moist. 


SWEET    POTATO. 

Plant  them  in  a  hot-bed  early  in  April,  about  three 
inches  deep.  When  the  sprouts  are  three  or  four 
inches  above  ground,  part  them  from  the  potatoe,  and 
set  them  into  hills  properly  manured,  and  raised  a  little 
above  the  surface.  The  seed-potato,  if  left  in  the 
ground,  will  continue  for  some  time  to  furnish  sprouts. 

Good  crops  of  sweet  potatoes  may  be  raised  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Lat.  40.  by  a  little  attention  to  the 
nature  of  the  plant.  Sweet  potatoes  are  produced  from 
the  joints  of  the  vine,  and  not  from  the  old  potato.  To 
make  them  fruitful  these  joints  must  be  covered  with 
earth,  and  the  potato  forms  there. 

The  best  method  of  cultivation  is  as  follows: — Some 
time  in  April  make  a  hot  bed  of  horse  manure  about 
eighteen  inches  thick;  on  the  manure  put  three  inches 
of  earth;  on  this  earth  plant  the  seed  potatoes  three 
inches  apart,  and  cover  them  four  inches  deep  with 
earth. 

When  the  sprouts  are  three  inches  above  the  ground, 
draw  them  out  with  the  hand,  and  transplant  them  (aa 
you  would  cabbage  plants)  in  soft  rich  ground,  in  rows 
four  feet  apart,  and  put  the  plants  about  a  foot  apart  in 
the  rows.  Keep  them  clear  of  weeds  until  the  vines 
begin  to  cover  the  ground,  after  which  they  are  left  to 
themselves. 

If  the  hot-bed  is  made  early  in  April,  the  early 
sprouts  will  be  ready  for  transplanting  early  in  May. 
The  bed  will  continue  to  throw  up  a  second  and  third 
succession  of  sprouts,  all  of  which  will  afford  good  po- 
tatoes, if  planted  out  any  time  before  the  end  of  June. 
A  hot-bed  five  feet  square,  with  half  a  peck  of  seed 
potatoes,  will  produce  a  succession  of  sprouts,  sufficient 
to  yield  about  fifteen  bushels  of  sweet  potatoes. 

g2 


7S  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

PA  RSLEY — PersiL 
8own  from  April  to  August.  Parsley  seed  seldom 
vegetates  under  live  weeks  after  sowing;  it  is  recom- 
mended to  soak  the  seed  twelve  hours  in  water,  mixed 
with  sulphur.  This  process,  with  attentive  watering, 
Avill  cause  the  seed  to  vegetate  in  less  than  a  fortnight. 
Parsley  is  sometimes  used  in  held  culture. 


PARSNEP — Panais, 
This  vegetable  requires  a  deep,  rich,  light  soil,  free 
from  stones,  and  should  be  dug  or  trenched  before  sow- 
ing, at  least  two  spades  deep;  and  if  manured  at  the 
same  time,  the  dung  should  be  quite  rotted  and  well 
v/orkcd  in.  Sow  as  early  in  the  spring  as  possible,  in 
drills  two  {cet  apart,  and  cover  the  seed  about  one 
quarter  of  an  inch  deep.  Thin  out  to  ten  inches  in  the 
rows,  and  keep  them  free  from  weeds  by  regular  and 
frequent  hoeings. 

PEA PoiS, 

Sow  as  early  in  the  year  as  the  ground  can  be  wor- 
ked, in  a  sheltered  situation  in  double  rows  four  feet 
apart,  and  cover  the  peas  about  three  inches.  Manure 
moderately,  and  dig  it  in  well.  Sow  the  early  Wash- 
ington and  the  blue  Prussian  together,  and  the  former 
will  come  in  a  fortnight  before  the  other.  A  quart  of 
peas  will  sow  two  double  rows  about  twenty-hve  feet 
each.  As  the  early  crops  appear,  draw  the  soil  over 
them;  and  as  they  advance  from  half  an  inch  to  three 
inches  high,  and  when  the  weather  is  dry,  draw  the 
earth  to  the  stems,  and  continue  repeatedly  to  hoe  and 
earth  up,  as  it  will  assist  the  pease  to  bear  plentifully. 
When  they  are  six  or  eight  inches  higli,  place  a  row  of 
sticks  or  brush  about  five  feet  long  in  the  middle  of  the 
double  rows,  and  a  few  smaller  ones  on  the  outside  of 
each  row.  Suit  the  sticks  to  the  pease,  as  there  is  an 
advantage  in  having  them  of  a  proper  length;  they 
should  be  both  tall  and  branchy.  Sow  again  from  the 
middle  to  the  end  of  April,  to  come  in  use  about  the  end 
of  July  and  beginning  of  August.     Where  great  nicety 


GARDENING.  79 

is  practised,  put  of  the  early  frame  about  three  to  an 
inch,  the  charlton,  hotspur,  and  dwarf  marrowfats,  two; 
the  Prussian  blue  and  middle-sized  sorts,  three  in  two 
inches;  the  large  marrowfat,  the  rounceval,  and  most 
large  sorts,  an  inch  and  a  half  apart. 

Mr.  W.  Curr  has  been  very  successful  in  raising  early 
pease;  the  following  are  his  directions:  ''The  pease 
which  I  have  found  to  do  best  w  ith  me  are  the  early 
double  blossomed  frame  pease.  I  prefer  to  have  them 
two  or  three  years  old,  as  they  bear  earlier  and  do  not 
run  so  much  into  vine.  An  early  piece  of  ground 
should  be  selected  for  this  purpose,  not  too  rich,  and  if 
possible  lying  dry.  It  should  be  well  dug  without  dung, 
and  made  fine  wdth  the  spade  and  rake.  The  drills  should 
be  drawn  three  feet  and  a  half  apart,  six  inches  deep,  and 
two  inches  wide  at  the  bottom,  and  about  one  inch  of 
well  rotted  short  dung  laid  in  them,  wdiich  should  be  co- 
vered w  ith  tw^o  inches  of  earth,  and  the  pease  sown  over 
them  with  about  six  inches  of  earth,  which  leaves  a  small 
ridge  immediately  above  the  pease.  In  this  state  they 
may  lie  for  eight  or  ten  days,  the  ground  may  then  be  ra- 
ked level  to  await  the  coming  up  of  the  pease.  Should 
they  make  their  appearance  in  cold  weather,  a  little 
litter  or  straw  may  be  laid  along  the  drills,  and  taken 
otr  whenever  the  air  is  free  from  frost.  When  the 
pease  are  about  one  inch  high,  the  earth  should  be 
gently  stirred  with  the  hoe  on  each  side  of  the  row,  and 
when  they  are  advanced  to  about  three  inches  in  height, 
a  little  earth  may  be  drawn  up  to  their  stems;  if  the 
weather  be  cold,  they  may  be  protected  by  setting  two 
boards  on  the  edge  so  that  they  meet  together  over  the 
row.  As  the  pease  advance,  the  earth  should  be  stirred 
near  the  rows,  and  when  six  inches  high,  they  ought  to 
have  sticks  set  out  on  each  side  of  the  row^  at  the  dis- 
tance of  from  twelve  to  eighteen  inches  apart,  taking 
care  not  to  have  the  slicks  too  crowded,  yet  to  have 
enough  of  branches  near  their  bottoms,  so  that  the  ten- 
drils of  the  pease  may  take  easy  hold.  Care  should  now 
be  taken  that  the  pease  keep  upright;  when  tliey  put 
out  six  or  eight  flowers,  the  leading  shoot  should  be 
stopped  by  nipping  tlie  top  off — this  greatly  promotes 


80  FxVMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  forming  and  filling  of  the  pods.  Should  the  weather 
be  dry,  it  may  be  requisite  to  water  them;  this  should 
be  done  at  night,  and  should  be  repeated  every  night 
during  the  continuance  of  the  drought.  Pease  thus 
raised  are  seldom  attacked  with  the  bug.  For  the  later 
crop,  the  double  row  is  generally  used,  and  answers 
better  than  the  single,  as  the  double  take  nearly  the 
same  quantity  of  sticks,  and  are  more  shaded  from  the 
sun,  which  is  a  great  advantage  when  the  sun  gets  high. 
The  ground  may  likewise  be  stronger  and  the  sticks 
longer,  but  for  the  earliest  pease  the  small  quantity  of 
manure  used  is  quite  sufficient  to  push  them  forward, 
without  giving  too  much  force  to  their  after  growth,  or 
to  keep  them  flowering,  setting,  and  filling  their  pods." 

Between  rows  of  the  tall  growing  kinds  have  beds  of 
onions,  carrots,  turnips,  or  any  other  crops  that  grow 
low;  but  there  is  a  later  method  of  planting  pease,  which 
is  more  economical  of  room,  and  is  said  to  be  preferable 
to  any  other  plan:  thus,  instead  of  sowing  a  straight 
row,  form  the  ground  into  circles  of  three  feet  diame- 
ter, with  two  feet  between  each,  in  a  row  thirty  feet 
long,  and  there  will  be  six  circles  of  pease  of  nine  feet 
each,  making  fifty-four  feet  instead  of  thirty,  which 
would  be  the  length  of  the  row.  If  another  row  of  cir- 
cles is  wanted,  leave  a  bed  between  for  something  else, 
and  go  on  as  before.  For  the  very  tall  sorts,  four  feet 
circles  will  be  best.  Be  careful  to  apply  the  sticks  at 
the  proper  time. 

Bishop^ s  Early  Prolific  Pea  is  extremely  productive; 
and  surpasses  in  some  of  its  qualifications  any  pea  hith- 
erto known.  Its  remarkable  dwarfishness  is  a  great 
recommendation  for  small  gardens,  as  it  seldom  exceeds 
twelve  inches  in  height.  Plant  two  or  three  inches  apart 
in  the  rows,  which  its  spreading  habits  require,  and 
which  answers  better  than  when  sown  closer,  hence  it 
is  obvious  there  will  be  a  great  saving  of  seed,  as  a 
quart  of  this  will  go  as  far  as  four  quarts  of  most  other 
pease.  It  is  very  early,  and  begins  blooming  when  three 
inches  high,  bears  abundantly,  and  is  fine  eating.  Plant 
weekly  for  a  constant  succession,  and  green  pease  may 
thus  be  obtained  all  the  summer  and  autumn.     From 


GARDENING.  81 

the  nature  of  its  growth  it  appears  better  calculated  to 
withstand  the  heat  of  our  summers  than  any  other 
variety  we  know  of. 

Woodford^s  JVeio  Tall  Prolific  Pea  is  a  very  great 
bearer,  and  is  remarkable  for  continuing  to  yield  during 
the  greater  part  of  the  summer.  It  has  a  fine  green 
color  when  dry.     Sow  about  the  tenth  of  May. 

It  is  recommended  to  farmers  to  plant  pease  in  their 
potato  hills.  A  farmer  to  the  east  of  us  says  he  raised 
more  pease  last  year  from  a  peck  sown  in  this  way, 
than  from  a  bushel  sown  in  any  other  way.  The  vines 
of  the  potatoes  serve  as  sticks  for  the  pease  to  run  up  on; 
and  the  size  of  the  pease  will  be  much  increased  by 
planting  in  this  way.  iVfter  the  potatoes  are  planted, 
go  through  the  rows  and  plant  three  pease  in  a  hill. 


PEPPER — Pinent, 

Sow  the  seed  in  a  warm  border,  the  last  of  April,  and 
then  transplant  eighteen  inches  apart;  or  sow  the  seed 
in  May,  in  drills,  two  i^eei  apart. 


RADISH — Raphanus  sativus. 

It  requires  a  light  mellow  soil,  well  dug  up.  The 
small  sorts  may  be  sown  among  lettuce,  onions,  &c. 
They  should  be  sown  every  two  weeks,  from  April  to 
August,  to  insure  a  succession  of  crops.  They  may  be 
sown  broad-cast,  or  in  drills,  not  too  thick,  as  the  tops 
would  run  up  too  much,  and  the  roots  be  stringy.  They 
should  stand  from  two  and  a  half,  to  five  inches  apart, 
the  seed  should  be  covered  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch 
deep,  according  to  the  weather  or  season.  In  dry 
weather,  water  them  freely — this  swells  the  roots,  and 
makes  them  crisp.  To  prevent  worms,  take  equal 
parts  of  buckwheat  bran,  and  fresh  horse  dung,  and 
mix  well  with  the  ground — in  forty-eight  hours  fer- 
mentation, and  a  crop  of  toad  stools  will  be  produced. 
Dig  the  ground  over — sow  the  seed — they  will  grow 
rapidly,  and  be  free  of  insects.  Leaves  of  radish  are 
often  used  as  salad;  and  the  green  pods  are  pickled,  as 


82  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

substitutes  for  capers.     Old  radishes  are  indigestible, 
and  render  the  breath  bad. 

The  earliest  should  be  kept  for  seed,  and    require 
about  a  yard  of  ground  to  each. 


RHUBARB — Rheum  undulatum. 

An  Asiatic  plant,  the  stalks  of  which  grow  to  the 
height  of  twenty  four  inches  and  the  thickness  of  a  la- 
dy's finger.  Stripped  of  their  outer  covering,  they 
yield  a  substance  slighty  acid,  much  admired,  and  used 
as  an  ingredient  in  puddings,  tarts,  pies,  &c.  It  forms 
a  great  article  in  the  London  market,  the  stalks  selling 
at  about  twenty-five  cents  a  bunch. 

The  seed  should  be  sown  in  a  rich,  dry,  sandy  loam, 
about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  deep,  as  early  in  the 
spring  as  possible,  (if  done  in  November  they  will  ve- 
getate in  spring  with  more  certainty;)  when  the  young 
plants  appear,  keep  them  free  from  weeds;  if  dry  wea- 
ther, water  them  frequently,  with  but  a  little  water  at  a 
time;  and  be  very  careful  to  protect  them  from  the 
mid-day  sun,  till  they  get  considerably  strong,  for  if  ex- 
posed fully  to  this  during  their  infant  state,  but  few  will 
escape  destruction.  A  wide  board  placed  side-wise  on 
the  south  side,  projecting  over  the  plants  a  little,  would 
serve  this  purpose  effectually,  without  depriving  them 
of  the  benefit  of  circulating  air.  The  first  season  is 
their  critical  period,  having  survived  that,  they  have 
nothing  to  fear.  In  November,  the  leaves  having  de- 
cayed, cover  the  crowns  of  the  plants  two  inches  deep, 
Avith  earth  from  tlie  intervals.  In  April  strip  off  the 
covering  till  you  perceive  the  tops  of  the  plants,  give 
all  the  ground  a  slight  digging,  dress  it  neatly,  keep  the 
beds  well  hoed,  and  always  free  from  weeds.  It  is 
much  better  propagated  by  slips  from  the  old  roofs,  in 
the  spring  months;  the  seed  starts  very  readily  if 
sown  in  the  autumn,  but  is  very  shy  of  vegetating  in 
the  spring. 


SPINACH,  OR  spiNAGE — Epiuard, 
Sow  broadcast  in  rich  ground,  about  the  middle  of 
August  to  come  into  use  in  October,  and  about  the  tenth 


GARDENING.  83 

of  September  for  spring  use:  or  sow  in  drills  eight  or 
ten  inches  apart,  and  hoe  and  keep  clean.  When  the 
winter  has  fairly  set  in,  the  plants  must  be  covered  with 
straw,  salt  hay,  or  cedar  brush :  they  will  bear  the  frost 
of  an  ordinary  winter  without  protection;  but  by  covering 
them,  an  earlier  and  better  crop  is  obtained. 


SQUASH — Giraumon, 

"The  Early  Bush  Squashes  are  best  for  garden  cul- 
ture, and  their  produce  is  allowed  to  be  equal  in  quality 
to  the  running  kinds.  The  Vegetable  Marrow  is  also 
well  deserving  of  cultivation.  The  seeds  of  these  may 
be  planted  early  in  May,  in  hills  four  or  five  feet  apart. 
The  Running  Squash  may  be  planted  at  the  same  time 
and  in  the  same  manner  as  pumpkins;  and  the  manage- 
ment of  these  various  kinds  of  vines  is  the  same  in  every 
respect  as  cucumbers  and  melons.  It  is  always  best  to 
put  five  or  six  seeds  in  a  hill,  as  a  guard  against  acci- 
dents. When  the  plants  are  past  danger,  they  can  be 
thinned  to  two  or  three  in  a  hill." 

The  fruit  of  the  early  or  summer  sorts  are  unfit  for 
use  when  ripe ;  and  the  winter  sorts  cannot  be  used  till 
they  are  ripe. 


SALSIFY,  OR  VEGETABLE    OYSTER Satsifis  OU  CerClfis. 

Sow  early  in  April,  an  inch  deep,  in  drills  twelve 
inches  apart.  When  the  plants  are  two  or  three  inches 
high,  they  should  be  thinned  to  the  distance  of  six 
inches  from  each  other,  and  afterwards  hoed.  The 
ground  should  be  kept  clean  and  loose  round  the 
plants,  by  repeated  hoeings;  and  in  the  autumn  they 
will  be  fit  for  use.  The  roots  may  be  taken  up  late  in 
the  fall,  and  secured  in  moist  sand  from  the  air;  or  be 
suffered  to  remain  out,  and  dug  up  when  wanted. 


STRAWBERRY — Fragaria, 
There  are  many  varieties,  and  the  number  is  con- 
stantly increasing  by  crossing  and  cultivation. 


84  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

It  requires  a  light  warm  soil,  manured  exclusively 
with  vegetable  matter.  Rich  manure  increases  the 
vines,  but  diminishes  the  fruit.  Rotten  v/ood  and  leaves, 
with  ashes,  in  a  compost  heap,  are  the  best  manure. 
It  requires  great  moisture.  The  usual  time  for  trans- 
planting is  August  or  May.  Let  the  bed  be  two  feet 
wide — set  the  plants,  if  they  are  strong,  one  shoot  in  a 
place,  eight  by  twelve  inches  distant,  that  they  may 
form  a  matted  bed.  Leave  on  all  the  healthy  leaves; 
keep  the  ground  loose  and  free  from  weeds.  To  keep 
the  fruit  from  the  ground,  put  round  the  borders  of  the 
beds  straw  or  leaves.  Seeds  sown  as  soon  as  ripe,  will 
produce  fruit  the  next  year. 

This  fruit  does  not  undergo  acetous  fermentation. 
Care  must  be  taken  to  transplant  a  few  wa/e,  with  theye- 
male  plants,  in  number  about  one  of  the  former  to  fifteen 
of  the  latter.     [See  Farmers^  Reporter  for  JVov.  1831.] 

SKiRRET —  CheiDis, 
Sow  the  latter  end  of  March  or  early  in  April,  in  a 
light  moist  soil,  for  in  dry  land  the  roots  are  generally 
small,  unless  the  season  proves  wet.  The  root  of  the 
Skirret  is  composed  of  several  fleshy  tubers,  as  large  as 
a  man's  finger,  and  joining  together  at  top.  They  are 
eaten  boiled,  and  stewed  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
or  rolled  in  flour  and  fried,  or  else  cold  with  oil  and 
vinegar,  being  first  boiled.  They  have  much  of  the 
taste  and  flavor  of  a  Parsnep,  but  a  great  deal  more 
palatable.  The  seed  of  the  Skirret  are  five  or  six 
weeks  in  vegetating. 


SUMMER    SAVORY. 

Sown  on  hot-beds  in  March — in  the  open  air  in  April 
and  May — an  excellent  and  well  known  pot  herb,  of 
easy  culture. 


SAGE. 

Sown  on  rich  soil,  in  drills,  the  latter  part  of  April — 
the  next  spring  after  sowing,  transplant  it  two  feet 
apart,  into  beds  of  rich  earth — it  is  best  to  give  it  some 
sb  'Iter  of  horse  manure  and  straw  during  the  winter. 


GARDENING.  85 

TOMATO — Tomate  ou  pomme. 

It  should  be  sown  in  hot  beds  in  March,  or  in  warm 
borders  the  first  of  jNIay.  Its  cuhivation  is  too  well 
known  to  require  further  directions. 


TURNIP — JVavet. 

Sow  as  early  in  the  spring  as  possible,  on  a  light, 
moderately  rich  soil.  It  should  be  well  dug,  and  if 
necessary  to  manure,  let  it  be  done  at  the  latter  end 
of  the  year,  or  if  applied  at  the  time  of  sowing,  the 
dung  should  be  well  rotted  and  buried  beneath  the  sur- 
face; fresh  dung  should  never  be  used  for  turnips.  Sow 
broadcast  and  rake  in ;  when  the  plants  are  well  up, 
thin  out  with  the  hoe  to  six  or  eight  inches.  For  the 
fall  and  winter  crop,  sow  about  the  tenth  of  August,  on 
good  ground,  from  w^hich  an  early  crop  of  lettuce,  rad- 
ishes, potatoes,  &:c.  may  have  been  taken.  Clear  the 
ground  and  dig  it  well — sow  broadcast  as  before,  and 
thin  out  with  a  hoe  to  fifteen  inches.  When  sowed  in 
rows,  the  drills  should  be  an  inch  deep,  and  twelve  or 
fifteen  inches  asunder. 

Sand  or  gravel,  with  a  mixture  of  loam,  produce  the 
sweetest  and  best  flavored  roots.  It  should  be  made 
fine,  but  not  too  rich,  lest  the  turnips  be  rank  and  ill 
tasted.  Ground  which  has  been  newly  cleared  from 
the  forest,  yields  the  largest  and  sweetest  roots;  and 
on  such  spots  there  is  least  danger  from  insects.  ''Next 
to  new  land,  swarded  ground  is  to  be  chosen  for  a  crop 
of  turnips;  and  the  way  to  prepare  it  is,  to  plough  it 
pretty  deep  in  the  spring,  and  fold  it  by  turning  in  the 
stock  for  a  good  number  of  nights;  for  there  is  scarcely 
any  of  our  fields  sufliciently  rich  to  produce  turnips 
without  manuring;  and  folding  in  this  way  appears  to  be 
the  best  method  of  enriching  the  ground  for  this  pur- 
pose. It  should  be  well  harrowed  as  often  as  once  a 
week,  while  the  folding  is  continued,  to  mix  the  excre- 
ments of  the  cattle  with  the  soil." 

To  prevent  the  depredations  of  the  fly,  which  infest 
this  plant  in  ho.^  weather,  let  the  seed  be  steeped  in 
water,  with  one  ounce  of  sulphur  to  the  pint.     One 

H 


86  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

pound  of  seed  will  sow  an  acre;  and  should  be  sown  in 
that  proportion  for  smaller  pieces  of  ground. 


In  compiling  the  preceding  directions  for  cultivating 
garden  vegetables,  I  have  been  greatly  assisted  by  the 
catalogues  of  seeds,  &c.  of  Mr.  B.  Russell,  and  Mr. 
George  Thorburn's  establishments,  and  by  a  treatise 
published  by  Asa  Lee  Davison,  Esq.  of  Ohio. 


HOW    AND    WHEN    TO    WATER    PLANTS. 

A  copious  supply  of  water  is  very  essential  to  a  good 
garden.  Loudon  remarks,  'that  many  kitchen  crops 
are  lost  for  want  of  watering.  Lettuces  and  cabbages 
are  often  hard  and  stringy;  turnips  and  radishes  do  not 
swell;  onions  decay;  cauliflowers  die  off;  and  in  gene- 
ral in  dry  seasons  all  the  cruciform^  (flowers  with  petals 
in  the  form  of  a  cross)  become  stinted,  or  covered  with 
insects,  even  in  rich,  deep  soils.  Copious  waterings  in 
the  evenings,  during  the  dry  seasons  would  cause  that 
fulness  and  succulency  which  we  find  in  vegetables 
produced  in  the  low  countries,  and  in  the  Marsh  Gar- 
dens at  Paris,  and  in  England  at  the  beginning  and 
latter  end  of  the  season. 

"Watering  is  requisite  for  various  purposes,  as  ali- 
ment to  plants  in  a  growing  state;  as  a  support  to  newly 
transplanted  plants;  for  keeping  under  insects,  and 
keeping  clear  the  leaves  of  vegetables. 

One  general  rule  must  ever  be  kept  in  mind  during 
the  employment  of  water;  that  is,  never  to  water  while 
the  sun  shines.  A  moment's  reflection  will  convince 
any  one  that  this  rule  is  agreeable  to  the  laws  of  na- 
ture, for  during  rain  the  sun's  rays  are  intercepted  by 
a  panoply  of  fog  or  clouds.  AH  artificial  watering, 
therefore,  should  be  carried  on  in  the  evening  or  early 
in  the  >  morning,  unless  it  be  confined  to  watering  the 
roots,  in  which  case  transplanted  plants,  and  others  in 
a  growing  state  may  be  watered  at  any  time,  and  if 
they  are  shaded  from  the  sun,  they  may  also  be  watered 
over  the  tops. 


GARDENING.  87 

The  water  used  for  watering  vegetables,  if  taken 
from  a  well  or  cold  spring,  shovld  be  exposed  one  day 
at  least  to  the  shining  of  the  sun,  otherwise  it  will  give 
a  chill  to  the  plants.  Only  a  small  quantity  should  be 
applied  at  once,  that  it  may  have  an  effect  similar  to 
that  of  a  refreshing  rain:  for  water  applied  too  plenti- 
fully sometimes  washes  away  the  finest  of  the  mould 
from  the  roots,  or  makes  little  cavities  about  them, 
which  admit  too  much  air. 


A    NEW    AND    EFFECTUAL    WAY     TO     DESTROY     BUGS     IN    A 

GARDEN. 

On  every  square  rod  planted  with  cucumbers,  put  a 
piece  of  a  board  flat  on  the  ground,  to  preserve  your 
plants  from  a  striped  bug,  which  some  seasons  is  very 
destructive.  This  simple  experiment  may  seem  to  be 
novel  and  ineffectual:  but  the  secret  of  the  matter  is, 
the  board  forms  a  shelter  for  a  toad,  which  hops  from 
under  the  cover  at  night  and  destroys  the  bugs,  and 
during  the  day  time  may  be  found  by  turning  over  the 
board.  Should  any  one  have  doubts  on  the  subject,  he 
can  easily  try  the  experiment. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    MAKING    FLOWER-GARDENS. 

As  a  general  principle,  almost  every  thing  that  grows, 
thrives  best  in  a  rich  soil;  there  are  a  few  exceptions, 
but  they  are  so  trifling,  that  this  rule  may  be  laid  down 
for  all  practical  purposes:  therefore  make  your  ground 
rich;  decayed  vegetable  matter  from  the  woods  is  best: 
for  a  flower-garden;  dig  and  turn  it  well  over,  and 
make  it  level;  then  rake  it  smooth;  if  it  is  well  dug, 
it  will  be  perfectly  level,  therefore  the  raking  is 
necessary  only  to  make  it  smooth  and  fine.  In  small 
gardens,  where  there  is  not  space  for  picturesque  de- 
lineations, neatness  must  be  the  prevailing  characteristic. 
"A  variety  of  forms  may  be  indulged  in,  provided  the 
figures  are  graceful  and  neat,  and  not  in  any  one  place 
too  complicated.  An  oval  is  a  figure  that  generally  plea- 
ses, on  account  of  the  continuity  of  its  outlines;  next,  if 
extensive,  a  circle.     But  hearts,  diamonds,  or  triangles, 


88  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

seldom  please.  A  simple  parallelogram,  divided  into 
beds  running  lengthwise,  or  the  larger  segment  of  an 
oval,  with  beds  running  parallel  to  its  outer  margin, 
will  always  please."  When  your  ground  is  ready,  mark 
out  a  bed  according  to  the  number  of  kinds  you  have 
to  sow;  we  will  suppose  you  have  forty,  a  little  bed,  ten 
feet  six  inches  long  by  two  broad,  will  hold  them,  (when 
there  is  plenty  of  room  of  course  more  can  be  taken.) 
Fasten  your  line  on  each  side;  begin  at  six  inches  from 
one  end,  have  a  square  stick,  longer  than  the  width 
of  the  bed,  with  a  mark  near  each  end  and  one  for  the 
centre;  lay  it  across  the  bed,  and  place  the  number- 
stick  with  the  name  of  a  sort  on  each  side  exactly  in 
the  middle;  draw  a  shallow  drill  with  your  fingers; 
take  two  sorts,  and  sprinkle  one  along  the  drill  on  one 
side  of  the  number-stick,  and  one  on  the  other;  press 
them  gently  down,  and  cover  them  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch:  then  move  your  stick  six  inches  from  the  drill, 
put  in  the  number-stick,  sprinkle,  cover,  and  proceed 
till  you  have  filled  the  bed.  You  will  now  have  twenty 
rows,  and  two  kirds  in  each  rcvr.  Half  a  row  will 
contain  as  many  plants  as  you  Avill  vrant  of  one  kind, 
that  space  being  sufficient  for  twenty  or  thirty  dahlia 
seed,  and  of  the  smaller  kinds  two  or  three  times  that 
number.  At  the  latter  end  of  April  or  the  beginiiing 
of  May,  the  seed  must  be  sown:  in  about  a  month,  more 
or  less,  many  of  them  will  be  fit  to  transplant.  Take 
advantage  of  cloudy  and  rainy  weather  for  this  opera- 
tion; move  the  plants  carefully  with  a  transplanting 
trowel,  the  smaller  kinds  set  in  front,  the  larger  in  the 
rear,  taking  care  to  arrange  them  alternately  according 
to  their  color  and  time  of  flowering:  but  if  the  sky  be 
unclouded  and  the  sun  bright,  give  a  little  water,  and 
it  will  be  safest  to  cover  them  with  a  flower-pot  or 
something  else  for  a  few  days.  Any  thing  may  be 
transplanted  that  we  know  of,  except  the  Poppy  and 
Lupin,  and  these  we  believe  to  be  impossible;  they 
must  therefore  be  sown  where  they  are  to  flower. 

The  Convolvulus  minor,  with  its  beautiful  azure,  open 
to  the  morning  and  closing  with  advancing  day,  pene- 
trates deeply,  and  cannot  easily  be  moved,  and  it  should 


GARDENING.  89 

be  done  when  quite  young.  Man}'  other  flower?, 
Avhich  have  long  naked  roots,  should  also  be  moved 
when  young.  Sow  Mignonette  near  your  house,  under 
the  windows,  any  where  and  every  where,  Avherever 
you  can  constantly  enjoy  its  delightful  sweets;  it  is 
most  fragrant  in  spring  and  autumn,  and  continues  till 
quite  cold  weather. 

The  cypress  vine  {ipomce  quamodit)  has  been  gene- 
rally supposed  to  possess  very  tardy  vegetating 
properties,  and  that  without  artificial  aid  it  v.ould 
necessarily  lie  in  a  state  of  quiescence  live  or  six 
weeks:  we  are  satisfied,  however,  from  experience,  that 
if  the  seed  is  good,  and  it  is  not  planted  till  the  end  of 
May,  it  will  be  out  of  the  ground  in  a  week,  or  as 
soon  as  about  any  other  kind.  It  is  very  much  admired, 
and  deserves  to  be.  Of  all  the  annual  vines  it  is  the 
most  worthy  of  commendation,  as  it  combines  neatness, 
elegance,  and  beauty. 

In  dry  seasons,  when  no  rain  falls  for  five  or  six 
weeks,  and  the  eart]i  becomes  parched  and  hard,  and 
dry  for  several  inches  deep,  the  smaller  and  more  deli- 
cate kinds  look  stinted  and  miserable,  and  the  taller 
and  sturdier  are  shorn  of  the  full  and  ample  propor- 
tions which  they  attain  when  visited  by  kindly  and- 
refreshing  shov^'crs.  The  china-aster,  dahlia,  phlox, 
and  some  others,  are  very  impatient  of  dryness;  but 
we  know  of  no  flower  oi  more  obdurate  habits  than  the 
chrysanthemum,  which  will  resist  the  most  searching  ex- 
siccation for  a  long  period.  The  balsam,  though  one  of 
the  most  succulent  of  plants,  can  support  an  extreme 
degree  of  dryness  without  detriment;  but  mignoiictte, 
the  monthly  woodbine,  and  some  other  fragrant  flowers 
lose  their  precious  odours  in  an  arid  atmosphere. 

The  foregoing  directions  are  principally  intended  for 
small  gardens  in  the  city,  where  it  is  necessary  to  use 
great  economy, in  making  the  most  of  a  little;  what  fol- 
lows, relates  to  the  general  culture  and  management 
of  large  gardens,  which  we  copy  from  that  inexhausti- 
ble source  of  horticultural  treasures,  Loudoivs  Enryclo- 
pcedia  of  Gardening.  This  splendid  work  contains 
every  thing  connected  with  the  art:  and  though  these 

h2 


90  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

notices  vi'crc  v>Tittcn  for  the  guidance  of  English  gar- 
deners, tliey  are  equally  applicable  to  the  arrangement 
of  flower-gardens  in  this  country,  by  a  slight  alteration 
Avitli  regard  to  the  time,  as  the  spring  is  much  earlier 
in  England,  and  consequently  the  ground  there  can  be 
Vforked,  and  seed  sown  a  month  or  two  before  we  can 
commence  gardening  operations. 

The  cultivation  of  the  Flowcr-Garden\%  simple  compar- 
ed with  that  of  the  kitchen-garden,  both  from  its  limited 
extent  and  the  general  sameness  of  its  products;  but  to 
manage  it  to  perfection  requires  a  degree  of  nicety  and 
constant  attention  beyond  any  other  open-air  depart- 
ment of  gardening.  As  the  stalks  of  flowering  plants 
shoot  up,  they  generally  require  thinning,  and  props  for 
support;  and  the  blossom,  both  of  plants  and  shrubs,  no 
sooner  expands  than  it  begins  to  wither,  and  must  be  cut 
off,  unless,  as  in  some  of  the  ornamental  shrubs,  they 
are  left  for  the  sake  of  the  beauty  of  their  fruit.  Weed- 
ing, watering,  stirring  the  soil,  cutting  off  stems  which 
have  done  flowering,  attending  to  grass  and  gravel, 
must  go  hand  and  hand  in  these  operations. 

With  respect  to  xhe  general  culture  and  manuring  the 
soil^  it  should  be  subjected,  as  far  as  practicable,  to  the 
same  process  of  trenching  to  diifcrent  depths  as  that 
of  the  kitchen-garden.  In  the  shrubbery  this  cannot 
be  done,  but  it,  and  also  the  earth  compartments  of  the 
flowder-garden,  should  be  turned  over  a  spit  in  depth, 
and  some  vegetable  mould,  or  very  rotten  cow-dung, 
added  occasionally.  Every  two  or  three  j'ears  the  plants 
in  the  flower-garden  should  be  taken  up  and  reduced  in 
size,  and  the  beds  or  borders  trenched,  say  one  time  at 
two  spits  deep,  another  at  three,  and  so  on,  adding  en- 
riching compost  or  manure  completely  rotted,  accord- 
ing to  circumstances.  If,  instead  of  trenching,  the  old 
earth  were  entirely  removed,  and  replaced  by  good  loam 
from  a  dry  upland  parterre,  the  improvement  would  be 
still  greater.  Most  herbaceous  plants  flower  well  in 
such  loam,  and  for  tlie  more  cultivated  sorts,  as  border 
pinks,  polyantliuses,  &c.  that  require  a  xich  soil,  a  por- 
tion of  enricliing  matter  could  be  added  to  each  plant 
as  planted,  and  a  corresponding  attention  paid  to  such 


GARDENING.  91 

as  require  peat-earth,  sand,  clay,  or  iime.  In  the  shrub- 
bery, a  similar  renewal  of  soil,  and  attention  to  the  soils 
required  by  particular  shrub-plants,  is  also  necessary, 
at  least  in  front,  where  the  more  delicate  shrubs  natu- 
rally rank,  and  where  the  herbaceous  plants  are  chiefly 
arranged. 

With  respect  to  the  tiracs  of  plantings  or  sowing,  and 
manner  of  cropping  the  flower-garden  and  shrubbery, 
the  greater  part  of  the  surface  being  covered  with 
shrubs  or  plants  of  perennial  duration,  very  little  crop- 
ping is  required,  and  as  a  substitute  for  a  rotation, 
recourse  must  be  had  to  the  renewal  of  the  soil  as  re- 
commended above.  Annuals  are  sown  at  various 
periods  from  April  to  June;  but  for  the  principal  show, 
generally  in  May:  the  half-hardy  sorts  are  raised  in 
hot  beds  in  the  reserve  department,  and  transplanted 
where  they  are  to  flower  in  May  or  June,  and  later 
sowings  and  transplantings  are  made  to  procure  a  pro- 
tracted display.  Biennials  and  perennials  of  the  fibrous 
or  ramose  rooted  kinds  are  transplanted  from  the 
reserve  department  in  October  or  April;  and  such  bul- 
bous roots  as  are  annually  taken  up,  are  generally  re- 
planted in  November  or  April.  When  bulbs  and  other 
florists'  flowers  are  cultivated  in  beds,  a  rotation  may  be 
adopted  as  far  as  respects  them:  thus  the  hyacinth, 
tulip,  &:c.  may  be  succeeded  by  annuals,  and  those  by 
the  dianthus  tribe,  or  dahlias,  &C.5  but  in  borders  and 
compartments  planted  in  the  mingled  manner,  as  well 
as  in  shrubberies,  a  rotation  is  out  of  the  question. 
Particular  care  is  requisite  to  remove  weak,  ill-condi- 
tioned, or  ill-flowering  plants,  and  to  replace  them  by 
others  of  the  same  height  and  color.  This  may  be  done 
at  all  seasons  of  the  year  by  the  use  of  the  transplanter; 
but  the  better  mode  is  to  have  always  an  ample  stock 
in  the  reserve-garden,  of  all  the  colors  and  heights,  both 
of  herbaceous  plants  and  low  shrubs,  in  pots,  and  when- 
ever, when  any  plant  is  in  flower,  a  defect  appears,  it 
can  be  remedied  at  once  by  turning  the  plant  out  of 
the  pot  into  its  situation  in  the  border. 

Herbaceous  plants  require  little  pruning,  but  never- 
theless   something    in    this    wa}'   may  be  occasionally 


92  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

required  on  the  same  general  principles  applied  to 
trees.  Where  very  large  flowers  are  wanted,  it 
is  obviously  advantageous  to  prevent  the  plant  from 
expanding  its  vigour  in  too  great  a  number  of  them, 
or  in  mere  shoots  and  leaves.  Top-heavy  plants, 
as  some  thistles,  solidagos,  &c.  may  require  to  be 
lightened,  and  almost  all  are  benefitted  by  thinning 
out  a  part  of  their  shoots.  In  some  annuals,  thin- 
ning is  efiected  both  by  eradication  and  pruning, 
and  in  the  more  delicate  sorts  by  pinching  off  the  young 
shoot,  when  an  inch  or  two  high.  Creepers,  climbers, 
and  shrubs  planted  against  walls  or  trellises,  either  on 
account  of  their  rarity,  delicacy,  or  to  conceal  the  ob- 
ject against  v/hich  they  are  placed,  require  different 
degrees  of  training;  those  which  attach  themselves  na- 
turally, as  the  ivy,  merely  require  to  be  occasionally 
guided  so  as  to  induce  a  regular  distribution  of  their 
shoots;  the  others  must  be  treated  like  fruit-trees,  train- 
ing thinly,  if  blossoms  are  the  object;  and  rather  thicker, 
if  a  mass  of  foliage  be  what  is  chiefly  wanting.  "Edg- 
ings of  ail  sorts,"  Marshall  observes,  "should  be  kept  in 
good  order,  as  having  a  singularly  neat  effect  in  the 
appearance  of  a  garden.  The  dead  edgings  will  some- 
times, and  the  live  edgings  often,  vvant  putting  to  rights; 
either  cutting,  clipping,  or  making  up  complete.  Where 
there  are  no  edgings,  or  but  weak  ones,  let  the  earth 
bordering  on  the  walks  be  kept  firm,  and  now  and  then 
worked  up  by  line  in  moist  weather,  beating  it  smooth 
with  the  spade." 

Alpine  plants  require  protection  from  the  cold,  by 
covering  with  snow,  or  by  hand-glasses,  or  frames  during 
winter;  and  from  heat,  by  screens  to  produce  shade 
during  summer.  The  roots  of  many  sorts  require  to  be 
protected  by  ashes,  rotten  tan,  or  litter,  from  frost,  and 
the  tops  of  others  both  shrubs  and  plants,  to  be  guarded 
by  fronds  of  fern,  fir-branches,  mats,  or  portable  glass- 
cases,  from  rain,  hail,  and  cutting  winds.  Great  care 
must  be  taken  to  protect  pots  of  plants  from  frost,  by 
always  keeping  them  plunged  in  earth  or  some  noncon- 
ductor; for  no  state  in  which  a  plant  can  be  placed  is 
so  obnoxious  to  the  baneful  influence  of  congelation  as 


GARDENING.  93 

that  of  being  grown  in  a  pot.  Climbing  plants  require 
to  be  supported  by  poles  or  rods,  as  some  sorts  of  honey- 
suckle, bignonia,  aristolochia,  &:c.;  by  props,  as  pyra- 
midal bell-flower,  dahlia,  euphorbia,  &c.  or  by  branches 
or  spray,  as  the  nasturtium  and  pea  tribe.  Much  of  the 
beauty  of  the  flower-garden  depends  on  the  manner  in 
which  these  operations  are  performed.  The  prevalent 
error  consists  in  overdoing  the  thing,  in  employing  too 
stout  and  too  long  rods  or  props,  and  too  many  thick 
tufty,  branches,  instead  of  sucli  as  are  free-grown  and 
open.  Watering  must  be  liberally  applied  to  almost 
every  part  of  the  flower-garden  during  summer,  and  in 
the  evening;  it  increases  the  progress,  and  enlarges  the 
parts  of  all  vegetables;  gives  a  fresh  appearance  to 
the  soil  as  well  as  the  plants,  disperses  their  odours  in 
the  suiTounding  atmosphere,  and  tends  to  subdue  various 
kinds  of  insects.  Ahvays  water  in  the  evening,  as  it 
has  time  to  sink  into  the  earth,  and  be  imbibed  by  the 
flowers  during  the  night.  If  it  is  done  in  the  morning, 
the  sun  comes  and  drinks  up  the  moisture  before  the 
plants  derive  any  benefit,  and  the  labour  and  water  are 
thrown  away. 

The  cutting  off  Jlower-stnlks^  decaying  Jlozvers,  leaves, 
8/c,  is  to  be  done  in  most  cases  immediately  after  the 
flowers  are  faded ;  but  tliere  are  exceptions  where  the 
leaves  on  the  lower  part  of  flower-stems  may  be  requi- 
site to  strengthen  the  root,  and  where,  as  in  the  case  of 
stipa,  some  convallarias,  eringoes,  &c.  the  parts  of  the 
flower  are  persisting,  or  the  fruit  or  seed  pods  are  ob- 
jects of  beauty.  The  leaves  of  bulbous-rooted  plants, 
and  such  others  as  are  not  prolific  in  foliage,  should  be 
carefully  preserved  till  they  have  begun  to  decay;  and, 
indeed,  the  base  or  rooted  leaves  of  no  plant  whatever 
should  be  cut  off  till  this  is  the  case,  unless  for  some 
particular  object.  Every  single  flow^er,  as  soon  as  the 
petals  begin  to  droop,  should  be  pinched  ofl",  and  espe- 
cially every  flower  of  the  double  kind.  Every  rose, 
when  it  begins  to  droop,  should  be  dipt  off  near  to  the 
foot-stalk  of  the  one  w4iich  is  about  to  succeed  it;  and 
when  the  last  of  the  corymb  has  done  flowering,  then 
the  common  foot-stalk  should  be  cut  off  back  to  the  first 


94  FAMILY  RECjt:IPTS. 

strong  leaf-bud:  nothing  is  more  unsightly  in  a  flower- 
garden  than  rose-bushes  where  this  has  not  been  at- 
tended to. 

J\mlness  is  the  dress  and  visage  of  gardening,  and  if 
necessary  any  where,  is  more  especially  so  in  the  flower- 
garden.  A  gardener  who  pretends  to  manage  a  flower- 
garden  without  the  most  vigilant  attention  to  this  point, 
at  all  times,  is  unworthy  the  charge.  The  first  thing  is 
to  have  a  quick  intelligent  eye,  so  as  instantly  to  per- 
ceive what  is  wanting,  and  the  second  is  to  be  possessed 
of  that  principle  of  activity  which  immediately  sets 
about  supplying  the  want.  Many  gardeners  have  certain 
times  for  cleaning  up^  S^c.  and  will  go  fifty  times  past  a 
weed,  stone,  dead  leaf,  or  some  such  article,  Avhich  dis- 
figures or  injures  a  scene,  without  removing  it,  merely 
because  the  time  for  cleaning,  &c.  has  not  come.  This 
is  most  abominably  formal  conduct,  deserving  the  seve- 
rest reprobation.  A  gardener  ought  to  have  his  eye, 
his  head,  his  heart,  his  hand,  his  knife,  and  apron,  ready 
for  action  at  all  times,  places,  and  seasons,  when  within 
the  precincts  of  his  charge. 

The  changeable Jloiccr-garden.  The  essential  principle 
of  this  garden  consists  in  the  power  of  changing  its  pro- 
ductions at  pleasure,  so  that  whenever  any  plant,  or 
group  of  plants,  begin  to  decay,  they  can  be  removed 
and  their  places  supplied  by  others  coming  into  bloom. 
To  admit  of  this  a  large  reserve  nursery  is  requisite,  in 
which  the  plants  must  be  kept  in  pots,  and  removed  and 
plunged  in  the  borders  as  wanted.  The  Chinese,  as  Sir 
W,  Chambers  informs  us,  excel  in  this  mode  of  garden- 
ing; and  we  have  been  informed  by  a  traveller  who  has 
resided  some  time  at  Canton,  that  he  has  known  a  man- 
darin (or  noble)  have  the  whole  furniture  and  style  of 
his  parterre  changed  in  a  single  night,  so  as  next  mor- 
ning to  present  not  only  a  different  description  of  flow- 
ers, shrubs,  and  dwarf-trees,  but  a  different  arrangement 
of  the  beds  and  compartments.  Something  of  the  same 
kind  is  practised  in  the  gardens  at  the  Tuilleries  in 
Paris;  in  some  of  the  imperial  gardens  at  Petersburg, 
and  in  the  vice-royal  gardens  of  Monza.  Gardens  of 
this  description  admit  of  a   ycry  perfect  arrangement 


GARDENING.  95 

of  the  flowers,  whether  in  the  mingled  manner,  in  select 
groups,  or  according  to  the  natural  method.  It  is  only 
with  such  resources  that  a  flower-gardener  can  "paint 
his  way,"  as  Sir  W.  Chamhers  says  the  Chinese  artists 
do,  "not  scattering  their  flowers  indiscriminately  about 
their  borders,  but  disposing  of  them  with  great  circum- 
spection along  the  skirts  of  the  plantations,  or  other 
places  where  flowers  are  to  be  introduced.  They  re- 
ject all  that  are  of  a  straggling  growth,  of  harsh  colors, 
and  poor  foliage,  choosing  only  such  as  are  of  some  du- 
ration, grow  either  large  or  in  clusters,  are  of  beautiful 
forms,  well  leaved,  and  of  tints  that  harmonize  with  the 
greens  that  surround  them.  They  avoid  all  sudden 
transitions,  both  with  regard  to  dimension  and  color, 
rising  gradually  from  the  smallest  flowers  to  the  holly- 
hocks, pasonies,  sun-floAvers,  carnation-poppies,  and  oth- 
ers of  the  boldest  growth;  and  varying  their  tints  by 
easy  gradations,  from  white,  straw-color,  purple,  and 
incarnate,  to  the  deepest  blues,  and  most  brilliant  crim- 
sons and  scarlets.  They  frequently  blend  several  roots 
together,  whose  leaves  and  flowers  unite,  and  compose 
one  rich  harmonious  mass ;  such  as  the  white  and  purple 
candytuft,  larkspurs,  and  mallows  of  various  colors, 
double  poppies,  lupins,  primroses,  pinks  and  carnations; 
with  many  more  of  which  the  forms  and  colors  accord 
with  each  other;  and  the  same  method  they  use  with 
flowering  shrubs,  blending  white,  red,  and  Aariegated 
roses  together,  purple  and  white  lilacs,  yellow  and  white 
jessamine,  altheas  of  various  sorts,  and  as  many  others 
as  they  can  with  any  propriety  unite.  By  these  mixture-* 
they  increase  considerably  the  variety  and  beauty  of 
their  compositions.  In  their  large  plantations,  the  flow- 
ers generally  grow  in  the  natural  ground;  but  in  flower- 
gardens,  and  all  other  parts  that  arc  highly  kept,  they 
are  in  pots,  buried  in  the  ground,  which,  as  fast  as  the 
bloom  goes  off,  are  removed,  and  others  are  brought  to 
supply  their  places;  so  that  there  is  a  constant  succession 
for  almost  every  month  in  the  year;  and  the  flowers  are 
never  seen  but  in  the  height  of  their  l)cauty." 

The  botanic  flozcer-garden  being  intended  to  display 
something  of  the  extent  and  variety  of  the  vegetable 


96  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

kingdom,  as  well  as  its  resemblances  and  differences, 
should  obviously  be  arran2;ed  according  to  some  system 
or  method  of  study.  In  modern  times,  the  choice  is 
almost  limited  to  the  artificial  system  of  Ijnnaeus,  and 
the  natural  method  of  Jussieu,  though  Adanson  has 
given  above  fifty-six  different  methods  by  which  plants 
may  be  arranged.  The  latter  has  much  the  best  effect 
in  a  garden,  and  corresponds  better  with  culture.  The 
former,  though  most  convenient  for  the  young  student, 
yet  by  bringing  plants  together  that  have  few  or  no 
obvious  relations,  it  destroys  that  harmony  which  is  so 
gratifying  in  viewing  natural  families.  Whatever  meth- 
od is  adopted,  the  plants  may  either  be  placed  in  regu- 
lar rows,  or  each  order  may  be  grouped  apart,  and 
surrounded  by  turf  or  gravel.  For  a  private  botanic 
garden,  the  mode  of  grouping  on  turf  is  much  the  most 
elegant,  and  it  has  this  advantage,  that  as  the  species 
belonging  to  the  group  are  increased,  it  can  be  enlarged 
by  appropriating  a  part  of  the  turf,  and  any  group  con- 
taining few  species,  may  be  filled  up  with  repetitions  for 
effect.  The  groups  may  be  of  the  most  irregular  out- 
lines, and  those  which  are  to  contain  trees  may  be  raised 
or  lowered  in  surface,  according  as  the  species  may  be 
natives  of  hills  or  valleys,  and  the  trees  and  plants  so 
dispersed  as  that  the  former  shall  not  conceal  the  latter, 
Dor  present  a  compact  lumpish  appearance  at  the  edges, 
or  in  the  outline  against  the  sky.  Rock-work  may  be 
introduced  in  groups,  where  there  are  many  alpines  to 
be  grown;  and  bogs,  ponds,  and  springs  imitated  in  oth- 
ers destined  for  aquatics,  &c.  as  far  as  consistent  with 
botanical  purposes.  A  gravel  walk  may  be  so  contrived 
as  to  form  a  tour  of  all  the  groups,  displaying  them  on 
both  sides;  in  the  centre,  or  in  any  fitting  part  of  the 
scene,  the  botanic  hot-houses  may  be  placed;  and  the 
whole  might  be  surrounded  with  a  sloping  phalanx  of 
evergreen  plants,  shrubs,  and  trees.  The  plants  in  such 
a  garden  should  generally  be  neatly,  but  inconspicu- 
ously named,  or,  at  all  events  numbered;  but  naming  is 
greatly  to  be  preferred,  as  saving  trouble  to  the  specta- 
tor, and  more  inviting  to  the  novice  desirous  of  know- 
ledge.    It  is  hardly  necessary  to  observe  that  the  above 


GARDENING.  97 

modes  of  planting  a  flower-garden,  are  alike  applicable 
to  every  form  or  style  of  laying  out  the  garden  or  par- 
terre, and  that  they  do  not  interfere  with  any  mode  of 
enclosing  or  surrounding  it,  or  of  edging  the  walks. 

Time  of  planting  herbaceous  plants.  This  is,  in  gene- 
ral, autumn  and  spring;  but  any  perennial  plant  may  be 
safely  removed  after  it  has  done  flowering  or  produced 
seed.  With  respect  to  biennials  and  annuals,  they  may 
be  planted  at  almost  any  season  before  they  have  begun 
to  throw  up  flower-stems.  Biennials,  however,  are  ge- 
nerally sown  early  in  autumn  in  the  flower-garden  nur- 
sery, and  transplanted  either  late  in  the  same  season  or 
early  in  the  following  spring,  to  where  they  are  to 
flower.  Some  annuals,  such  as  larkspurs,  euphorbia, 
mignonette,  and  other  hardy  kinds,  flower  best  when 
sown  in  the  fall. 


TO    CULTIVATE    HA.WTHORN    HEDGES,    OR    LIVE    FENCES. 

Nothing  can  be  more  beautiful  for  a  garden  than  a 
hawthorn  hedge,  well  kept.  Live  fences  have  already 
become  objects  of  serious  importance. 

The  months  of  October,  November,  and  December, 
will  be  the  most  eligible  periods,  in  the  southern  states, 
for  making  this  kind  of  fence;  particularly  as  their 
frosts  can  do  no  injury  to  the  ditch,  and  the  roots  will 
have  an  early  establishment,  and  consequently  be  better 
prepared  to  encounter  the  summer  heats.  In  the  mid- 
dle and  eastern  states,  it  is  preferable  doing  this 
business  in  March,  or  early  in  April;  as  the  ditch,  in 
that  case,  would  have  one  year's  advantage  of  the  frost, 
which  in  some  kinds  of  soil  would  have  a  considerable 
effect,  particularly  in  the  first  year,  by  swelling  the  earth 
in  the  face  of  the  ditch,  causing  it  to  moulder  down, 
and  thereby  expose  the  roots  to  the  quicks ;  but  this  can 
be  obviated  by  leaving  a  scarcement  in  tlie  front,  as 
hereafter  directed. 

Strong  year-old  quicks  will  answer  very  well  for  lay- 
ing in  the  face  of  a  ditch;  but  such  as  have  had  the 
advantage  of  two  years'  growth  in  nursery  rows,  after 
being  transplanted  when  one  year  old  from  the  seed 

I 


98  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

bed,  will  sooner  form  a  good  fence,  or  two  years  old 
plants  from  the  seed  bed  will  answer  a  very  good  pur- 
pose. Be  particular  in  taking  them  up,  not  to  injure 
their  roots  but  as  little  as  possible,  and  to  sort  them 
into  three  different  lots,  the  smallest,  larger,  and  largest, 
and  also  to  plant  each  lot  together;  for  the  mixing  of 
the  small  with  the  large  is  very  injudicious,  as  the  form- 
er in  a  little  time  would  be  smothered  and  overgrown 
by  the  latter,  and  vacancies  consequently  formed  in  the 
hedge. 

Previous  to  planting,  prune  off  the  extremities  of 
any  long,  straggling,  and  wounded  roots,  and  also  cut  off 
the  heads  of  the  plants  about  seven  inches  above  the 
earth-mark  where  they  stood  in  the  ground,  and  like- 
wise any  side  branches  that  remain;  let  no  consideration 
prevent  your  doing  this,  for  on  it  depends  much  of  your 
success. 

Having  your  plants  in  readiness,  and  dressed  in  this 
manner,  lay  them  by  the  heels  in  the  earth,  to  be  taken 
up  as  wanted,  lest  their  roots  should  become  dry,  and  be 
injured  thereby.  Then  proceed  to  form  your  ditch, 
which  should  be  four  feet  wide  at  least,  at  top,  narrowing 
with  a  gentle  slope  on  each  side  towards  the  bottom,  to 
the  perpendicular  depth  of  two  feet  and  a  half,  where 
it  should  be  one  foot  wide.  The  more  your  ground  is 
subject  to  slip  by  heavy  rains,  the  greater  slope  must 
be  given  to  the  bank  side. 

Begin  by  cutting  the  surface  sod  of  the  ditch  into 
squares  of  convenient  size,  and  about  three  inches  deep, 
having  previously  lined  out  and  cut  both  sides  with  a 
spade,  sloping  inwards  as  above  intimated,  and  lay  a 
row  of  them,  with  the  grassy  surface  under,  six  inches 
inward  from  the  edge  on  the  bank  side;  lay  on  the  top 
of  this  row  of  sods,  two  inches  of  the  loose  and  mellow 
earth,  that  is,  the  best  the  ditch  affords,  and  also  a  quan- 
tity of  it  behind  them,  for  about  eighteen  inches  or  two 
feet,  breaking  it  very  fine  with  the  spade;  on  this  lay 
your  quicks,  nearly  in  a  horizontal  manner,  their  tops 
being  a  little  elevated,  and  at  the  distance  of  six  inches 
one  from  the  other,  and  so  far  in,  that  three  or  four 
inches  of  their  tops  may  remain  uncovered  when  the 


GARDENING.  99 

ditch  is  finished.  Spread  the  roots  to  advantage,  and 
cover  them  well  with  the  mouldy  earth  that  dropped 
from  the  surface  sod:  this  is  necessary  in  order  to  give 
their  roots  the  advantage  of  the  best  soil,  and  should  on 
no  account  be  neglected.  Then  proceed  to  finish  your 
ditch  and  bank,  laying  the  remainder  of  your  surface 
sods  in  front  of  the  bank,  as  you  had  done  with  the  first 
row,  giving  it  exactly  a  similar  slope  to  that  of  the  ditch, 
and  the  whole  bank  such  a  form,  as  if  it  was  taken  up 
at  once  out  of  the  ditch,  and  turned  upside  down.  The 
scarcement  left  in  front,  throws  the  bank  so  far  back, 
as  not  to  bear  heavily  on  the  side  of  the  ditch  to  press  it 
down,  and  it  also  will  receive  and  retain  a  considerable 
portion  of  the  rain  that  slides  down  along  the  surface  of 
the  bank,  by  which  means  the  earth  in  front  will  be  kept 
in  a  more  moist  state  than  if  no  such  thing  was  left. 

Were  you  to  lay  in  two  rows  of  quicks  in  the  front, 
the  second  eight  or  nine  inches  above  the  first,  and  the 
plants  in  each  row  nine  or  ten  inches  distant,  placing 
those  of  the  upper  opposite  the  intervals  of  the  lower, 
it  would  be  the  most  effectual  method  of  making  a  bet- 
ter and  more  immediate  fence.  A  very  slight  paling 
on  the  top  of  the  bank,  that  will  defend  the  quicks  for 
three  years,  will  be  sufficient,  and  if  the  land  in  front  is 
not  in  cultivation,  but  under  stock,  a  similar  fence  may 
be  necessary  to  prevent  their  going  into  the  dilch,  and 
reaching  the  plants.  But  if  you  take  particular  care 
to  keep  them  constantly  weeded  for  the  first  two  years, 
which  is  absolutely  necessary,  or  all  is  lost  labour,  they 
will  have  the  less  inducement  to  approach  them. 

Preparation  of  Hawthorn  Seed  for  the  raising  of  Thorn 
Quicks. — When  you  collect  the  seed  in  autumn,  mix 
them  with  equal  quantities  of  light  sandy  earth,  and 
lay  them  in  that  state  in  a  narrow  sloping  ridge,  taper- 
ing at  the  top,  in  a  dry  part  of  your  garden,  where  they 
will  not  be  disturbed  by  hogs;  cover  them  with  about 
two  inches  of  light  loose  earth;  in  April  following  turn 
them  over,  covering  them  as  before;  repeat  this  process 
in  July  and  August,  by  which  the  seed  will  be  prepared 
for  vegetation.  A  trench  must  then  be  cut  around  this 
ridge,  to  prevent  any  water  from  lodging  around  the  seed. 


100  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Your  seed  being  prepared  as  above,  make  ready  a 
piece  of  good  rich  ground.  Early  in  the  spring  sow 
your  seed  pretty  thick,  to  allow  for  imperfect  seeds,  on 
beds  about  four  feet  wide,  with  an  alley  between  each 
row:  cover  the  seed  three  quarters  of  an  inch. 


A   CALENDAR, 

Pointing  out  the  most  important  duties  of  the  gardener  in 

each  month  of  the  year ^  and  the  vegetables  to  be  attended  to 

during  the  periods  mentioned. 

The  object  of  this  calendar  is  merely  to  give  brief 
intimations  of  work  to  be  performed  in  a  garden,  to- 
gether with  some  approximation  to  the  time  of  year  in 
which  it  should  be  accomplished. 

No  precise  time  can  be  fixed  which  will  suit  the  cli- 
mate in  all  the  states.  These  directions  are  intended 
for  the  middle  States,  and  particularly  about  the  latitude 
40^  N.  Allowance  can  be  made  for  elevation  of  site, 
as  well  as,  for  situation  North  or  South  of  that  degree, 
but  it  is  not  po=.-":bic .  perhaps,  to  state  what  that  allow- 
ance should  be  with  any  degree  of  precision. 

JANUARY. 

But  little  can  be  done  this  month,  except  getting 
poles  for  pease  and  beans.  Beds  for  forcing  cucumbers, 
melons,  &c.  may  be  prepared. 


FEBRUARY. 

Take  out  your  manure  and  leave  it  in  heaps — bum 
haum — clean  seed — get  and  repair  tools — prepare  ma- 
terials for  hot  beds — clear  your  trees  of  moss  and  mice, 
and  give  them  a  coat  of  lime ;  sow  asparagus — sow  for 
transplanting,  on  hot  beds,  radishes,  carrots,  salads, 
pease  and  beans,  protect  vegetating  plants  by  old  litter, 
mats,  barks,  &c. 


MARCH. 

Sow  lettuce  in  open  ground  and  in  vacant  places 
among  the  rows  of  other  plants,  where  it  can  be  pulled 


GARDENING.  101 

out  before  they  need  the  room.  Early  pease  and 
radishes  cannot  be  planted  too  soon  after  the  frost  is  out. 
Plant  cabbage,  cucumber,  melon,  squash,  &:c.  in  hot 
beds — dress  borders;  clean,  re-lay,  or  make  new  gravel 
walks,  turn  compost,  dress  asparagus  and  make  new 
beds,  set  out  cabbage  stumps  for  seed,  salad,  and  greens; 
sow  cress,  mustard,  and  radish  for  salad  once  a  fortnight; 
plant  celery,  artichoke,  and  horse  radish. 


APRIL. 

Sow  artichokes,  asparagus,  beans,  beets,  broccoli, 
cucumbers  in  hot  beds,  cauliflower,  cabbage  in  a  warm 
border,  carrots,  celery,  cress,  lettuce,  mustard,  nastur- 
tium, onions,  parsley,  parsneps,  pepper,  pease,  sweet 
potato  in  hot  beds,  radishes,  rhubarb,  salsify,  sea  kale, 
spinage,  squashes,  and  turnips  for  early  and  garden  crops. 

For  particular  directions  for  cultivating  the  above 
named  or  any  other  vegetables  mentioned  in  this  calen- 
dar, see  the  preceding  pages  where  they  are  alphabeti- 
cally arranged.  The  precise  time  in  the  month  ia 
which  they  ought  to  be  sown  is  there  specified.  Propa- 
gate fruit  trees  in  this  month. 


MAY. 

Again  plant  cucumbers,  melons,  and  squashes;  plant 
corn,  pumpkins,  gourds  and  beans,  having  the  poles  set 
first;  weed  advancing  crops;  transplant  radishes  for 
seed ;  weed,  thin,  and  transplant  lettuce,  and  sow  more 
seed;  sow  other  small  salads;  plant  pease  twice  this 
month;  prune  fruit  trees;  sow  borecole,  broccoli,  if  not 
sown  last  month,  beets  do.,  Brussels  sprouts;  transplant 
or  prick  out  cauliflowers,  do.  cabbage  plants;  plant 
cucumbers  again;  transplant  egg  plants  and  lettuce; 
plant  okra;  sow  pease  for  second  crops,  tomatoes,  and 
turnips. 


JUNE. 

Keep  all  your  plants  clean  and  well  watered  if  neces- 
sary; plant  cucumbers  and  melons  for  pickling;  plant 

I  2 


102  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

more  potatoes,  pease,  beans,  and  salads;  plant  out  cab- 
bage for  winter;  pick  off  overloading  fruit. 


JULY. 

Clean  all  your  vacant  ground,  where  your  early  crops 
were,  to  plant  for  fall  and  winter  supplies;  sow  salads 
every  eight  or  ten  days,  in  shady  places  at  this  season; 
f^ow  turnips  any  time  this  month,  and  to  fifteenth  of  Au- 
gust; sow  radish,  lettuce,  spinage,  and  cabbage  for  fall 
greens;  collect  ripe  seeds;  let  them  remain  on  the 
stems  pulled  up  till  dry;  water  thirsty  plants;  bud  or 
inoculate  fruit  trees. 


AUGUST. 

Keep  all  clean  of  weeds;  remove  haum  to  compost 
beds;  cut  such  herbs  as  are  in  flower,  that  you  want  to 
save  for  winter  use,  or  for  distilling;  dry  them  in  the 
shade;  keep  dung  hills  and  compost  heaps  free  from 
weeds,  to  prevent  their  being  filled  with  seeds.  Inocu- 
late or  bud,  if  the  bark  still  slips;  sow  onions  to  stand 
over  winter. 


SEPTEMBER. 

Gather  seeds  as  they  ripen;  earth  up  celery  if  you 
have  any;  sow  radishes;  pull  ripe  onions;  the  last  of 
this  month  transplant  perennials;  defend  your  grapes 
from  wasps  by  hanging  vials  of  honey  and  water  among 
them;  clear  your  seed  beds  and  young  plantations  of 
weeds;  gather  your  cucumbers  and  mangoes  for  pickles 
before  they  spot. 


OCTOBER. 

Set  your  cabbage  plants  of  last  month''s  sowing  in  a 
warm  sheltered  bed,  to  stand  through  the  winter.  The 
sun  must  not  shine  on  them  when  frozen;  protect  them 
in  the  winter,  by  glasses,  mats,  or  boards,  but  let  them 
have  air  in  mild  weatlier.  When  asparagus  turns  yel- 
low, cut  them  off  close  to  the  ground,  and  carry  off  the 
branches:  cover  them  with  old  litter;  plant  out  seed 
onions;  sow  rhubarb  and  sea-kale;  tiiey  will  be  up  in 


GARDENING.  103 

April;  manure,  dig  up,  and  trench  vacant  ground;  clean 
old  strawberry  beds;  cut  off  the  runners  close  to  the 
plants,  and  apply  a  slight  dressing  of  proper  compost. 


NOVEMBER. 

"Gather  your  winter  fruits,  not  forgetting  your 
squashes;  sow  rhubarb,  sea-kale,  skirret,  parsneps;  ma- 
nure and  trench  your  ground  for  early  spring  crops; 
sow  early  pease  if  you  can  protect  them  from  the  mice; 
plant  seeds  of  fruit  trees;  lay  a  good  coating  of  litter 
over  the  roots  of  choice  trees  and  shrubs." 


DECEMBER. 

"If  the  season  permits,  do  which  was  directed  last 
month  and  remains  undone;  collect  all  your  old  sticks 
and  poles,  and  lay  them  up  carefully;  procure  stakes 
and  other  materials  which  may  be  wanted  in  a  more 
busy  season. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    CULTIVATING    FRUITS    AND  FRUIT  TREES. 

"All  our  garden  fruits  are  but  ameliorated  varieties 
of  such  as  are  wild.  The  amelioration  has  resulted 
from  human  skill,  time  and  accident;  and  being  so  pro- 
duced can  only  by  art  be  continued.  Hence  the  two 
great  operations  for  procuring  and  perpetuating  improv- 
ed varieties  of  fruits  are,  amelioration  and  propagation. 

"Amelioration  'consists  either  in  acquiring  new  or  im- 
proved varieties  of  fruit,  or  increasing  their  good 
qualities  when  acquired.  There  is  in  all  beings  a  dis- 
position to  deviate  from  their  original  nature  when 
cultivated,  or  even  in  a  wild  state.  But  this  disposition 
is  so  strong  in  some  as  to  render  them  particularly  adap- 
ted to  become  subject  to  domestication:  for  instance,  the 
dog,  the  pigeon,  and  the  barn-yard  fowl  are  cases  in 
which  this  tendency  is  most  strongly  marked  in  animals; 
and  domesticated  fruits  are  a  parallel  case  in  the  vege- 
table world. 

^Cultivators  increase  this  disposition  chiefly  in  two 
ways;  either  by  constantly  selecting  the  finest  existing 


104  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

varieties  for  seed,  or  by  intermixing  the  pollen  and  stig- 
ma of  two  varieties  for  the  purpose  of  procuring 
something  of  an  intermediate  nature.  The  power  of 
obtaining  cross-bred  varieties  at  pleasure,  has  only  ex- 
isted since  the  discovery  of  sexes  in  plants.  In  select- 
ing seed  from  the  finest  existing  varieties,  we  should, 
moreover,  take  care  to  select  it  from  the  handsomest, 
largest  and  most  perfectly  ripened  specimens  of  those 
varieties;  for  "a  seedling  plant  will  always  partake 
more  or  less  of  the  character  of  its  parent,  the  qualities 
of  which  are  concentrated  in  the  embryo,  when  it  has 
arrived  at  full  maturity."  Now,  if  the  general  qualities 
of  a  given  variety  are  concentrated  in  the  embryo  under 
any  circumstances,  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  they 
will  be  most  especially  concentrated  in  a  seed  taken 
from  that  part  of  a  tree  in  which  its  peculiar  good  quali- 
ties reside  in  the  highest  degree.  For  instance,  in  the 
fruit  of  an  apple,  growing  upon  a  north  wall,  there  is  a 
smaller  formation  of  sugar  than  in  the  same  variety 
grov.ing  on  a  south  wall;  and  it  can  be  easily  under- 
stood that  the  seed  of  that  fruit,  which  is  itself  least 
capable  of  forming  saccharine  solutions,  will  acquire 
from  its  parent  a  less  power  of  the  same  nature  than  if 
it  had  been  formed  within  a  fruit  in  which  the  saccha- 
rine principle  was  abundant.  It  should,  therefore,  be 
always  an  object  with  a  gardener,  in  selecting  a  variety 
to  become  the  parent  of  a  new  sort,  to  stimulate  that 
variety  by  every  means  in  his  power  to  produce  the 
largest  and  most  fully  ripened  fruit  that  it  is  capable  of 
bearing.  The  importance  of  doing  this  is  well  known 
in  regard  to  melons  and  cucumbers,  and  also  in  preser- 
ving fugitive  varieties  of  flowers;  but  it  is  not  generally 
practised  in  raising  fruit  trees." 

Cross-hred varieties. — 'The  power  of  procuring  inter- 
mediate varieties  by  the  intermixture  of  the  pollen  and 
stigma  of  two  different  parents  is,  however,  that  which 
most  deserves  consideration.  We  all  know  that  hybrid 
plants  are  constantly  produced  in  every  garden,  and 
that  improvements  of  the  most  remarkable  kind  are 
yearly  occurring  in  consequence.  All  cases,  however, 
of  cross-fertilization  are  subject  to  "a  practical  conse- 


GARDENING.  105 

fjuence  of  great  importance,"  namely,  theit  "the  new 
variety  will  take  chiefly  after  its  polleniferous  or  male 
parent,  and  that  at  the  same  time  it  will  acquire  some 
of  the  constitutional  peculiarities  of  its  mother.  The 
limits  within  which  experiments  of  this  kind  must  be 
confined  are,  however,  narrow.  It  seems  that  cross- 
fertilization  will  not  take  place  at  all,  or  very  rarely,  but 
between  different  species,  unless  these  species  are  near- 
ly related  to  each  other,  and  that  the  offspring  of  the 
two  distinct  species  is  itself  sterile,  or,  if  it  possesses 
the  power  of  multiplying  itself  by  seed,  its  progeny  re- 
turns back  to  the  state  of  one  or  other  of  its  parents. 

'Hence  it  seldom  or  never  has  happened  that  domes- 
ticated fruits  have  had  such  an  origin.  We  have  no 
varieties  raised  between  the  apple  and  the  pear,  or  the 
quince  and  the  latter,  or  the  plum  and  cherry,  or  the 
gooseberry  and  currant.  On  the  other  hand,  new  va- 
rieties, obtained  by  the  intermixture  of  two  pre-existing 
varieties,  are  not  less  prolific,  but  on  the  contrary  often 
more  so  than  either  of  their  parents;  witness  the 
numerous  sorts  of  Flemish  pears,  which  have  been  rais- 
ed by  cross-fertilization  from  bad  bearers  within  the  last 
twenty  years,  and  which  are  the  most  prolific  fruit  trees 
with  which  gardeners  are  acquainted;  witness  also  Mr. 
Knight's  cherries,  raised  between  the  May  duke  and 
the  graffion,  and  Eve's  golden  drop  plum,  raised  from 
the  green  gage  fertilized  by  the  yellow  magnum  bonum. 
It  is,  therefore,  to  the  intermixture  of  the  most  valuable 
existing  varieties  of  fruit  that  gardeners  should  trust  for 
the  amelioration  of  their  stock.' 

To  cause  bad  bearers  to  be  prolific,  the  means  are, 
*1.  By  ringing  the  bark.  2.  By  bending  branches 
downwards.  3.  By  training;  and  4.  By  the  use  of 
different  kinds  of  stocks.  All  these  practices  are  in- 
tended to  produce  exactly  the  same  effects  by  different 
ways.  Whatever  tends  to  cause  a  rapid  diffusion  of 
the  sap  and  secretions  of  any  plant,  causes  also  the  for- 
mation of  leaf  buds  instead  of  flower  buds;  and  on 
the  contrary,  whatever  tends  to  cause  an  accumulation 
of  sap  and  secretions  has  the  effect  of  producing  flower 
buds  in  abundance.'     Ringing,  by  tending  to  prevent 


106  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  return  of  sap  to  the  part  below  the  ring,  also  tends 
to  cause  the  desired  accumulation  of  sap  in  the  pari 
above  the  ring. 

Bending  down  the  branches  effects  the  same  accumu- 
lation with  more  certainty.  When  branches  are  in 
(heir  natural  or  erect  position,  the  fluids  are  diffused 
through  their  vessels  or  tissue  uninterruptedly  and  ra- 
pidly; but  by  bending  down  the  branches,  the  vessels 
become  more  or  less  compressed,  and  contribute  to  the 
accumulation  of  the  juices  or  sap,  by  preventing  its 
rapid  diffusion.  Training,  as  branches  in  this  process 
are  usually  bent,  effects  the  same  object  in  the  same 
manner;  as  well  as  by  fixing  the  branches,  and  so  pre- 
venting their  being  agitated  by  winds,  as  this  agitation 
*is  known  to  facilitate  the  movement  of  the  fluids.' — 
Nor  is  the  influence  of  the  stock  of  an  essentially  dif- 
ferent nature.  In  proportion  as  the  scion  and  the 
8tock  approach  each  other  closely  in  constitution,  the 
less  effect  is  produced  by  the  latter;  and  on  the  contra- 
ry, in  proportion  to  the  constitutional  difference  between 
the  stock  and  the  scion  is  the  effect  of  the  former  im- 
portant. Thus  when  pears  are  grafted  or  budded  on 
the  wild  species;  apples  upon  crabs,  plums  upon  plums, 
and  peaches  upon  peaches  or  almonds,  the  scion  is,  in 
regard  to  fertility,  exactly  in  the  same  state  as  if  it  had 
not  been  grafted  at  all;  while  on  the  other  hand,  a  great 
increase  of  fertility  is  the  result  of  grafting  pears  upon 
quinces,  peaches  upon  plums,  apples  upon  white  thorn, 
and  the  like.  In  the  latter  cases,  the  food  absorbed 
from  the  earth  by  the  root  of  the  stock  is  communica- 
ted slowly  and  unwillingly  to  the  scion;  under  no 
circumstances  is  the  communication  between  the  one 
and  the  other  as  free  and  perfect  as  if  their  natures  had 
been  more  nearly  the  same;  th-e  sap  is  impeded  in  its 
ascent,  and  the  proper  juices  are  impeded  in  their  de- 
scent; whence  arises  that  accumulation  of  secretion 
which  is  sure  to  be  attended  with  increased  fertility. 

The  fluid  or  sap  collected  by  the  roots,  when  elabo- 
rated in  the  leaves,  is  so  modified  by  the  combined 
action  of  air,  light  and  evaporation,  as  to  acquire  the 
peculiar  character  of  the  fir.al  secretions  of  the  indi- 


GARDENING,  107 

vidual  from  which  it  is  formed.  'From  these  secre- 
tions,' as  discharged  by  the  foliage  into  the  system  of 
the  plant,  'the  fruit  has  the  power  of  attracting  such 
portions  as  are  necessary  for  its  maturation.  Hence  it 
follows,  that  the  more  we  can  increase  the  peculiar  secre- 
tions of  a  plant,  the  higher  will  become  the  quality 
of  the  fruits  and  vice  versa.  Pruning  and  training,  and 
the  exposure  of  branches  to  the  most  light  in  the  sun- 
niest aspects,  promote  the  former  effect.' 

The  next  subject  to  be  considered  is,  'the  mode  of 
multiplying  improved  varieties  of  parts,  so  as  to  con- 
tinue in  the  progeny  exactly  the  same  qualities,  as 
existed  in  the  parent.'  Seeds  will  not  perpetuate  a 
variety  undeviatingly;  buds  will.  'A  plant  is  really  an 
animated  body,  composed  of  infinite  multitudes  of  sys- 
tems of  life;  all  indeed,  united  in  a  whole,  but  each 
having  a  power  of  emitting  descending  fibres  in  the 
form  of  roots,  and  also  of  ascending  in  the  form  of 
stem.  The  first  of  these  buds  is  the  embryo  [in  a 
seed;]  the  others  are  subsequently  formed  on  the  stem 
emitted  by  the  embryo.  As  these  secondary  buds  de- 
velope,  their  descending  roots  combine  and  form  the 
wood,  their  ascending  stems  give  rise  again  to  new 
buds.  These  buds  are  all  exactly  like  each  other;  they 
have  the  same  constitution,  the  same  organic  structure, 
and  the  individuals  they  are  capable  of  producing 
are,  consequently,  all  identically  the  same ;  allowance 
of  course  being  made  for  such  accidental  injuries  or 
alterations  as  they  may  sustain  during  their  subsequent 
growth.  It  is  upon  the  existence  of  such  a  remarkable 
physiological  peculiarity  in  plants  that  propagation 
entirely  depends;  an  evident  proof  of  which  may  be 
seen  in  this  circumstance :  take  a  cutting  of  a  vine  con- 
sisting of  the  space  which  lies  between  two  buds,  an 
internodium,  as  botanists  would  call  the  piece,  and  no 
art  will  succeed  in  ever  making  it  become  a  new  plant, 
however  considerable  the  size  of  the  internodium  may 
be.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  take  the  bud  of  a  vine, 
without  any  portion  of  the  stem  adhering  to  it,  and  it 
will  throw  out  stem  and  root,  and  become  a  new  plant 
immediately.'     The   various  modes  of  artificial  propar 


108  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

gation,  such  as  increasing  by  eyes,  striking  from 
cuttings,  laying,  budding  and  grafting,  'all  consist  in 
the  application  of  these  principles  under  various 
forms.' — Increasing  by  eyes  or  buds  is  illustrated  by  in- 
stances of  the  vine.  Striking  by  cuttings  consists  in 
placing  a  stem,  bearing  more  buds  than  one,  'in  circum- 
stances fit  for  the  continuance  of  life;'  and  this  method 
has  an  advantage  over  propagation  by  single  buds,  as 
'the  stem  of  the  cutting  forms  an  important  reservoir  of 
nutriment'  for  the  buds  it  bears,  until  they  can  emit 
roots  into  the  soil  to  cater  for  themselves.  That  bud 
which  is  nearest  the  bottom  of  the  cutting  emits  its 
roots  'first  into  the  earth,'  and  a  'good  operator  always 
takes  care  that  the  lower  end  of  his  cutting  is  pared 
down  as  close  to  the  base  of  the  bed  as  may  be  prac- 
ticable, without  actually  destroying  any  part  of  the 
bud  itself:  by  this  means  the  first  emitted  roots,  instead 
of  having  to  find  their  way  downwards  between  the 
bark  and  wood,  strike  at  once  into  the  earth,  and  be- 
come a  natural  channel  by  which  nutriment  is  conveyed 
into  the  general  system  of  the  cutting.' 

'Laying  is  nothing  but  striking  from  cuttings,  that 
are  still  allowed  to  maintain  their  connexion  with  the 
mother  plant,  by  means  of  a  portion,  at  least  of  their 
stem.  Tongueing  the  layer,  'has  the  effect  of  enabling 
the  roots  to  be  emitted  into  the  soil  through  the  wound 
more  readily  than  if  they  had  to  pierce  through  the  bark/ 

Budding  and  Grafting. — Budding  differs  from  grafting 
in  this,  that  a  portion  of  the  stem  is  not  made  to  strike 
root  on  another  stem;  but  that  on  the  contrary,  a  bud 
deprived  of  all  trace  of  the  woody  part  of  a  stem  is 
introduced  beneath  the  bark  of  the  stock,  and  there  in- 
duced to  strike  root.  'In  performing  either  of  these 
operations,  the  great  point  to  be  attended  to  is  to  secure 
the  exact  contact  of  similar  parts.' 

Transplanting, — The  success  of  this  important  opera- 
tion, the  writer  conceives,  may  be  proved  to  depend 
exclusively  upon  these  two  conditions:  1.  The  preser- 
vation of  the  spongioles  of  the  roots;  and  2.  The 
prevention  of  excessive  evaporation.  The  spongioles 
are  the  extremities  of  the  fibres,  and  consist  of  bundles 


GARDENING.  109 

of  vessels  surrounded  by  cellular  tissue  in  a  very  lax 
spongy  state.  'Plants  absorb  all  or  nearly  all  of  their 
fluids  through  these  spongioles,  and,  as  the  latter  are 
exceedingly  delicate  in  their  organization,  their  de- 
struction will  be  effected  in  exact  proportion  to  the 
violence  or  carelessness  with  which  their  transplanta- 
tion is  performed.  'It  is  because  of  the  security  of 
the  spongioles  from  injury,  when  the  earth  is  undistur- 
bed, that  plants  reared  in  pots  are  transplanted  witli 
so  much  more  success  than  if  taken  immediately  from 
the  soil.'  As  every  fibre  is  terminated  by  a  spongiole, 
cutting  through  the  roots  of  large  trees  to  induce  the 
formation  of  fibres,  the  year  previous  to  removing  them, 
contributes  to  successful  transplanting.  'When  destroy- 
ed, the  spongioles  are  often  speedily  replaced,  particular- 
ly in  orchard  trees,  provided  a  slight  degree  of  growth 
continues  to  be  maintained.  This  is  one  of  the  reasons 
why  trees  removed  in  October  succeed  better  than  if 
transplanted  at  any  other  time.  The  first  impulse  of 
nature,  when  the  tree  finds  itself  in  a  new  situation,  is 
to  create  new  mouths  by  which  to  feed,  when  the  season 
for  growing  again  returns." 


SHORT    DIRECTIONS    FOR    TRANSPLANTING. 

Food  is  as  necessary  to  the  health  and  growth  of 
plants  as  it  is  to  animals.  The  best  food  for  plants  is 
rich,  pulverised  earth,  or  rather  the  vegetable  matter 
which  it  contains.  That  your  trees  and  shrubs  ma} 
live  and  thrive,  proceed  as  follows:  Dig  for  your  trees 
holes  at  least  three  feet  in  diameter,  and  eighteen  inches 
deep,  and  for  shrubs  a  proportionate  size  and  depth, 
throwing  away  the  lower  spit  of  earth.  Then  fill  up 
the  hole  to  a  proper  height  for  setting  the  tree,  with 
rich  surface  earth,  or  perfectly  rotted  manure,  blended 
with  four  out  of  five  parts  of  earth.  Set  yoUr  tree,  and 
cover  with  surface  soil,  treading  down  when  the  roots 
roots  are  covered  with  earth.  See  that  the  roots  are 
trimmed  of  all  bruised  and  broken  parts;  that  they  arc 
separately  extended  in  their  natural  direction ;  that  fine 
earth  every  where  comes  in  contact  with  them.     A 

K 


110  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

potato  or  two,  or  a  gill  of  flaxseed  or  oats,  may  be  ad- 
vantageously placed  in  the  hole  before  the  tree  is  set, 
and  a  pail  of  water  turned  in  after  the  hole  is  two  thirds 
filled.  The  rich  earth  affords  nutritive  pasture  for  the 
young  roots  to  range  in:  the  potatoes,  &c.  keep  the 
ground  loose  and  moist,  and  enable  them  to  roam  freely ; 
and  the  water  brings  the  earth  in  contact  with  the  roots, 
.'md  prevents  them  from  becoming  mouldy.  Keep  the 
ground  free  of  grass  as  far  as  the  roots  extend ;  for  these 
exhaust  the  moisture  and  nutriment  necessary  to  the 
plant,  and  exclude  from  the  roots  air  and  heat,  the  indis- 
pensable agents  to  vigorous  growth.  Treat  your  trees 
as  you  would  favorite  corn  hills  which  you  wish  to  make 
the  most  of,  except  give  them  no  unrotted  dung.  Wash- 
ing with  a  strong  ley  in  May  will  destroy  insects,  and 
promote  the  health  and  vigor  of  your  trees. 

To  persons  living  remote,  or  who  are  unable  to  obtain 
their  trees  for  early  spring  planting,  we  recommend  that 
they  procure  them  in  the  autumn,  and  lay  them  in  hy  tlie 
heel^  as  nurserymen  technically  term  it,  which  is  merely 
to  dig  a  trench  on  a  dry  piece  of  ground,  laying  the  earth 
on  one  side — the  trench  wide  enough  to  contain  the 
roots ;  put  the  roots  into  this,  close  together,  letting  the 
stocks  rest  in  an  inclined  position  upon  the  bank  of 
earth,  and  then  cover  the  roots  and  a  part  of  the  stocks 
with  earth.  In  this  way  they  escape  injury  from  the 
frosts  of  winter,  and  are  in  readiness  for  early  planting 
in  the  spring.  Besides,  better  plants  are  generally  ob- 
tained in  the  autumn  than  in  the  spring,  after  nurseries 
have  been  culled. 


TO  MANAGE  ORCHARD  GROUNDS. 

"The  whole  ground  of  an  orchard  should  be  dug  in 
the  autumn,  and  laid  up  in  a  rough  state  for  the  winter, 
giving  it  as  much  surface  as  possible  in  order  that  the 
weather  may  fully  act  upon  and  meliorate  the  soil;  thus 
following  it  as  far  as  the  case  will  admit.  Observe  to 
dig  carefully  near  to  the  trees,  and  so  as  not  to  hurt 
their  roots  and  fibres.     If  the  soil  be  shallow,  and  if 


GARDENING.  HI 

these  lie  near  to  the  surface,  it  would  be  advisable  to 
dig  with  a  fork,  instead  of  the  spade. 

Crop  to  within  two  feet  of  the  trees  the  first  year:  a 
yard  the  second;  four  feet  the  third,  and  so  on,  until 
finally  relinquished;  which,  of  course,  would  be  against 
the  eighth  year,  provided  the  trees  were  planted  at  30 
or  40  feet  apart,  with  early  bearing  sorts  between.  Br 
this  time,  if  the  kinds  have  been  well  chosen,  the  tem- 
porary trees  will  be  in  full  bearing,  and  will  forthwith 
defray  every  necessary  expense. 


TO    PRUNE     TREES.  '■^ 

Very  few  persons  seem  to  be  aware  of  the  importance 
of  giving  proper  form  to  the  young  tree,  or  mending  or 
improving  its  shape,  at  a  later  period.  In  the  peach  it 
is  ruinous,  sooner  or  later,  to  encourage  two  or  more 
leading  and  principal  branches,  from  the  main  stem;  let 
them  grow  ever  so  straight  and  upright,  they  constantly 
recede  by  the  pressure  of  repellant  branches,  and  by 
the  weight  of  fruit;  until,  after  having  nursed  them  to 
maturity,  on  the  first  windy  day,  you  have  the  mortifica- 
tion to  find  it  split  at  the  crotch,  and  one  or  both 
branches  ruined,  perhaps  at  the  moment  of  the  ripen- 
ing of  the  fruit. 

The  peach  is  peculiarly  liable  to  this  misfortune,  as 
the  seam  at  the  crotch  adheres  with  less  tenacity  than 
any  other  tree  cultivated. 

The  same  doctrine  holds  good  with  the  plum  and 
nectarine,  but  with  less  force,  and  in  fact,  there  is  but 
one  shape  that  is  to  be  tolerated,  with  trees  that  are 
allowed  their  full  growtb,  and  not  restrained,  or  trained 
in  any  way;  and  that  form  is  a  straight  centre  stem, 
from  the  root  to  the  terminate  bud,  with  branches  al- 
ternately projecting  at  judicious  distances,  both  around 
the  circumference,  and  the  whole  line  of  ascent,  allow- 
ing no  one  to  gain  the  advantage  of  another  in  excess, 
but  by  proper  retarding  cr  encouragement,  so  to  man- 
age, as  they  shall  present  a  cone,  beautiful  in  sbape, 
and  strong  to  resist  the  wind,  rains,  and  heavy  weights 
of  foliage  and  fruit. 


112  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Quince  trees,  by  proper  attention,  may  be  made  to 
have  straight  handsome  bodies,  and  fine  expanding  reg- 
ular tops,  instead  of  the  crooked,  craggy,  sprawUng 
bushes,  so  generally  cultivated. 

It  is  also  a  great  mistake  to  trim  the  stems  of  young 
trees  too  high,  causing  them  to  shoot  up  to  premature 
height'^,  become  top-heavy,  and  liable  to  be  blown  over, 
or  badly  leaned  from  their  perpendicular  and  true 
position;  which  causes  them  to  need  staking,  and  tying, 
whereby  they  are  apt  to  become  chafed,  and  frequently 
ruined. 

Trees  in  town  gardens,  which  are  situated  between 
high  houses  and  barns,  are  peculiarly  liable  to  misfor- 
tune by  wind,  which  is  caused  to  whiffle,  whirl  and  eddy 
about  with  such  force,  as  often  to  do  great  damage;  in 
all  such  cases  thcv  should  be  allowed  to  send  out  limbs 
lower  down,  in  regular  order,  with  a  straight  centre, 
and  handsome  shape. 

When  peach  trees  get  large  and  over-grown,  or  when 
they  are  apparently  going  backward  from  age,  they  can 
again  be  renewed  by  cutting  off  the  whole  top,  at  the 
collar  next  the  roots,  or  at  tlie  first  branching  limbs, 
when  a  great  quantity  of  shoots  Vvill  put  out  and  form 
handsome  clumps,  and  bear  well;  indeed  it  is  the  Penn- 
sylvania method  of  serving  trees  for  the  first  bearing, 
which  for  seedling  kinds  do  well:  cultivated  kinds 
should  be  cut  above  the  graft.  Prune  all  trees  at  the 
opening  of  the  bud,  and  if  you  wish  to  be  nice  about  it, 
cover  the  cut  with  grafters  wax,  tar  or  oil  paint. 


GRAFTING,    OR    ENGRAFTING. 

The  following  directions  for  grafting,  are  given  by 
Dr.  Deane,  in  his  valuable  Georgical  Dictionary: 

The  methods  of  grafting  are  various.  The  first, 
which  is  termed  Rind  or  Shoulder  grafting,  is  seldom 
practised  but  on  large  trees,  where  either  the  head  or 
large  branches  are  cut  off  horizontally,  and  two  or  more 
scions  put  in,  according  to  the  size  of  the  branch,  or  stem; 
in  doing  this  the  scions  are  cut  flat  on  one  side,  with  a 
shoulder  to  rest  upon  the  crown  of  the  stock;  then  the 


GARDENING.  US 

rind  of  the  stock  must  be  raised  up,  to  admit  the  scion 
between  the  wood  and  the  bark  of  the  stock,  which  musi 
be  inserted  about  two  inches,  so  as  that  the  shoulder  of 
the  scion  may  meet,  and  closely  join  the  crown  of  the 
stock;  and  after  the  number  of  scions  is  inserted,  the 
whole  crown  of  tlie  stock  should  be  well  clayed  over, 
leaving  two  eyes  of  the  scions  unconnected  therewith, 
which  will  be  sufficient  for  shooting. 

The  next  method  is  termed  Cleft  or  Stock  grafiing; 
this  is  practised  upon  stocks  or  trees  of  a  smaller  size, 
and  may  be  used  w^ith  success  where  the  rind  of  the 
stock  is  not  too  thick,  whereby  the  inner  bark  of  the  scioii 
will  be  prevented  from  joining  to  that  of  the  stock. 
This  may  be  performed  on  stocks,  or  branches,  that  are 
more  than  one  inch  in  diameter:  The  head  of  the 
stock,  or  branch,  must  be  cut  off,  with  a  slope,  and  a 
slit  made  the  contrary  way,  in  the  top  of  the  slope, 
iF^ep  enough  to  receive  the  scion,  w^hich  should  be  cut 
sloping  like  a  wedge,  so  as  to  fit  the  slit  made  in  the 
stock;  being  careful  to  leave  that  side  of  tlic  wedge 
which  is  to  be  placed  outward  much  thicker  than  the 
other.  Ai/d  in  putting  the  scion  into  the  slit  of  tlie 
stock,  there  must  be  great  care  taken  to  join  the  rind  of 
the  scion  to  that  of  the  stock;  for  if  these  do  ix)t  unite 
the  grafts  will  not  succeed. 

A  third  method  which  is  termed  Whip,  or  'j'ongue 
grafting,  is  performed  on  small  stocks  by  cutting  off 
the  head  of  the  stocks  sloping;  then  there  must  ]je  a 
notch  made  in  the  s^lope  toward  the  upper  part  down- 
ward, a  little  more  than  half  an  inch  deep,  to  receive 
the  scion,  which  must  be  cut  with  a  slope  upwards,  and 
a  slit  made  in  the  slope  like  a  tongue,  which  tongue' 
must  be  inserted  into  the  slit  made  in  the  slope  of  the 
stock,  so  as  that  the  two  rinds  of  both  scion  and  stock 
may  be  equal  and  join  together  exactly.  Then  there 
should  be  a  ligature  to  fasten  the  scion,  so  that  it  may 
not  easily  be  displaced. 


INOCULATING,    OR    BUDDING. 

"This  is  commonly  practised,"  says  Mr.  Miller,  ''up- 
on all  sorts  of  stone  fruit  in  particular,  such  as  peaches, 

k2 


114  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

nectarines,  cherries,  plums,  &c.  as  also  upon  oranges 
and  jasmines,  and  is  preferable  to  any  sort  of  grafting. 
Tile  method  of  performing  it  is  as  follows:  You  must 
be  provided  with  a  sharp  penknife,  having  a  flat  haft, 
(the  use  of  which  is  to  raise  the  bark  of  the  stock  to 
admit  the  bud ,)  and  some  sound  bass  mat,  which  should 
he  soaked  in  water,  to  increase  its  strength,  and  make 
it  more  pliable;  then  having  taken  off  the  cuttings  of 
the  tree  you  are  to  propagate,  you  should  choose  a 
smooth  part  of  the  stock  about  five  or  six  inches  above 
the  surface  of  the  ground,  if  designed  for  dwarfs;  but 
if  for  standards,  they  should  be  budded  six  feet  above 
ground;  then  with  your  knife  make  a  horizontal  cut 
across  the  rind  of  the  stock,  and  from  the  middle  of  that 
cut  make  a  slit  downwards  about  two  inches  in  length, 
so  that  it  may  be  in  the  form  of  T;  but  you  must  be 
careful  not  to  cut  too  deep,  lest  you  wound  the  stock. 
Then  having  cut  off  the  leaf  from  the  bad,  leaving  the 
foot  stock  remaining,  you  should  make  a  cross  cut 
about  half  an  inch  below  the  eye,  and  with  your  knife 
slit  off  the  bud,  with  part  of  the  wood  to  it.  This 
done,  you  must,  with  your  knife  pull  oiF  that  part  of 
the  wood  which  was  taken  with  the  bud,  observing 
whether  the  eye  of  the  bud  be  left  to  it  or  not,  (for 
all  those  buds  which  lose  their  eyes  in  stripping  should 
be  thrown  away,  being  good  for  nothing.)  Then,  hav- 
ing gently  raised  the  bark  of  the  stock  where  the  cross 
incision  was  made,  with  the  flat  haft  of  your  penknife, 
cleave  the  bark  from  tlie  wood,  and  thrust  the  bud 
therein,  observing  to  place  it  smooth  between  the  rind 
and  the  wood  of  the  stock,  cutting  olF  any  part  of 
the  rind  belonging  to  the  bud,  which  may  be  too  long 
for  the  slit  made  in  the  stock:  And  so  having  exactly 
fitted  the  bud  to  the  stock,  you  must  tie  them  closely 
j'ound  Avith  bass  mat,  beginning  at  (he  under  part  of  the 
slit,  and  so  proceed  to  the  top,  taking  care  that  you  do 
not  bind  round  tlie  eye  of  the  bud,  which  should  be  left 
open. 

"When  your  buds  have  been  inoculated  three  weeks 
or  a  month,  you  will  see  which  of  them  have  taken, 
those  of  them  whicli  appear  shrivelled  and  black  being 


GARDENING.  115 

dead,  but  those  which  remam  fresh  and  plump  you 
may  depend  are  joined.  At  this  time  you  should  loosen 
the  bandage,  which,  if  not  done  in  time,  will  pinch  the 
stock,  and  greatly  injure,  if  not  destroy,  the  bud. 

"The  March  following,''  (perhaps  April  in  this  coun- 
try,) "you  must  cut  off  the  stock  close  to  the  bud, 
sloping  it  that  the  wet  may  pass  off,  and  not  enter  the 
stock.  To  this  part  of  the  stock,  left  above  the  bud, 
it  is  very  proper  to  fasten  the  shoot  which  the  bud 
makes  in  summer,  to  secure  it  from  being  blown  out; 
but  this  part  of  the  stock  must  continue  on  no  longer 
than  until  the  bud  has  acquired  strength  to  support 
itself,  after  which  it  must  be  cut  off  close  above  the 
bud  that  the  stock  may  be  covered  thereby. 

"The  time  for  inoculating  is  from  the  middle  of 
June  to  the  middle  of  September,  according  to  the  for- 
w^ardness  of  the  season,  and  the  particular  sorts  of 
trees  to  be  inoculated,  which  may  be  easily  known  by 
trying  the  buds,  whether  they  will  come  off  well  from  the 
wood.  But  the  most  general  rule  is,  when  you  observe 
the  buds  formed  at  the  extremity  of  the  same  year's 
shoots,  which  is  a  sign  of  their  having  finished  their 
spring  growth." 


METHOD    OF    FORCING    FRUIT    TREES    TO    BLOSSOM    AND 
BEAR  FRUIT. 

With  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  ring  round  the  limb  or 
small  branch  which  you  wish  should  bear,  near  the 
stem  or  large  bough  where  it  is  joined:  let  this  ring  or 
cut  penetrate  to  the  wood.  A  quarter  of  an  inch  from 
this  cut,  make  a  second  like  the  first,  encircling  the 
branch  like  a  ring  a  quarter  of  an  inch  broad  between 
these  two  cuts.  This  bark,  between  these  two  cuts, 
must  be  removed  clean  down  to  the  wood ;  even  the  fine 
inner  bark,  which  lies  immediately  upon  the  wood,  must 
be  scraped  away,  until  the  bare  naked  wood  appears, 
white  and  smooth,  so  that  no  connexion  whatever  re- 
mains between  the  two  parts  of  the  bark.  The  barking 
or  girdling  must  be  made  at  the  precise  time  when,  in 
all   nature,  the   buds  are  strongly  sweirmg,  or  about 


IIQ  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

breaking  out  into  blossom.  In  the  same  year,  a  callous 
is  formed  at  the  edges  of  the  ring,  on  both  sides,  and 
the  connexion  of  the  bark  is  again  restored,  without 
any  detriment  to  the  tree  or  the  branch  operated  upon. 
By  this  simple  operation,  the  following  advantages  will 
be  obtained:  1.  Every  young  tree  of  which  you  do  not 
know  the  sort,  is  compelled  to  show  its  fruit,  and  decide 
sooner  whether  it  may  remain  in  its  present  state  or 
require  to  be  grafted.  2.  You  may  thereby,  with  cer- 
tainty, get  fruit  of  a  good  sort,  and  reject  the  more 
ordinary.  The  branches  so  operated  upon  are  hung 
full  of  fruit,  while  others,  that  arc  not  ringed,  often  have 
none,  or  very  little  on  them.  This  effect  is  explained 
from  the  theory  of  the  sap.  As  this  ascends  in  the 
wood  and  descends  in  the  bark,  the  above  operation 
will  not  prevent  the  sap  rising  into  the  upper  part  of  the 
branch,  but  it  will  prevent  its  descending  below  this 
cut,  by  which  means  it  will  be  retained  in  and  dis- 
tributed througli  the  upper  part  of  the  branch  in  a 
greater  portion  than  it  could  otherwise  be,  and  the 
branch  and  fruit  will  both  increase  in  size  much  more 
than  those  that  are  not  thus  treated.  The  twisting  of  a 
wire  or  tying  a  strong  thread  round  a  branch  has  often 
been  recommended  as  a  means  of  making  it  bear  fruit. 
In  this  case,  as  in  ringing  the  bark,  the  descent  of  the 
sap  in  the  bark  must  be  impeded  above  the  ligature, 
and  more  nutritive  matter  is  consequently  retained,  and 
applied  to  the  expanding  parts.  The  wire  or  ligature 
may  remain  in  the  bark. 

Mr.  Knight's  theory  of  the  motion  of  sap  in  trees,  is, 
'•that  the  sap  is  absorbed  from  the  soil,  by  the  bark  of 
the  roots,  and  carried  upwards  by  the  alburnum  of  the 
roots,  trunk,  and  branches:  that  it  passes  through  the 
central  vessels  into  the  succulent  matter  of  the  annual 
shoots,  the  leaf-stalk,  and  leaf;  and  that  it  is  returned 
to  the  bark  through  certain  vessels  of  the  leaf-stalk, 
and  descending  through  the  bark,  contributes  to  the 
process  of  forming  the  wood.** 

A  writer  in  the  American  Farmer  says,  he  tried  the  ex- 
periment of  ringing  some  apple,  peach,  pear,  and  quince 
trep«  on  small  limbs,  sav  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a 


GARDENING.  HJ 

quarter  in  diameter.  The  result  was,  the  apples, 
peaches,  *•  and  pears  were  double  the  size  on  those 
branches  than  on  any  other  part  of  the  trees:  in  the 
quinces  there  was  no  difference.  One  peach,  the 
heath,  measured  on  a  ringed  limb,  in  circumference 
11  1-4  inches  round,  and  11  3-4  inches  round  the  ends, 
and  weighed  15  ounces.  The  limbs  above  the  ring 
have  grown  much  larger  than  those  below  it. 

[Thacher's  Orchardist, 


new:  mode  of  grafting. 

When  the  trees  begin  to  show  their  fruit,  (no  matter 
what  kind,)  and  it  is  evident  that  grafting  must  be 
resorted  to,  or  we  must  patiently  put  up  with  an  inferior 
kind ;  instead  of  cutting  off  the  top,  uncover  the  roots, 
and  choosing  the  most  thrifty  one,  make  a  slit  in  the 
bark,  cut  your  scion  off  with  a  slope,  and  thrust  it  in  and 
cover  tlie  roots  with  earth.  It  will  take  well,  and  grow 
some  the  first  year,  much  more  the  next,  and  the  third 
year  the  old  stock  may  be  cut  away,  and  the  growth 
from  that  time  on  will  be  very  rapid,  and  soon  form  a 
good  bearing  tree. 


TO    RAISE    APPLE    TREES    FROM    CUTTINGS. 

A  horticulturist  in  Bohemia  has  a  beautiful  planta- 
tion of  the  best  sort  of  apple-trees,  which  have  neither 
sprung  from  seeds  nor  grafting.  His  plan  is  to  take 
shoots  from  the  choicest  sorts,  insert  them  into  a  pota- 
to, and  plunge  both  into  the  ground,  leaving  but  an  inch 
or  two  of  the  shoots  above  the  surface.  The  potato 
nourishes  the  shoot,  whilst  it  pushes  out  roots,  and  the 
shoots  gradually  spring  up  and  become  a  beautiful 
tree,  bearing  the  best  of  fruit  without  requiring  to  be 
grafted. 


THE    QUICKEST    WAY    TO    PROCURE    GRAPES. 

The  quickest  method  of  procuring  grapes,  is  to  graft 
into  the  body,  near  the  ground,  or  which  is  preferable, 
into  the  roots  of  large  vines.     In  the  following  year,  if 


118  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  graft  has  taken,  fruit  will  be  produced.  Thus 
every  farmer,  who  has  wild  vines  growing  on  hfs  ground, 
may,  by  procuring  cuttings  of  hardy  foreign  or  native 
kind,  and  paying  a  little  attention  to  the  grafting  and 
training,  be  soon  and  amply  supplied  with  grapes  for 
market  and  wine  making. 


PLASTER    FOR    TREES. 

The  cheapest  and  most  suitable  remedy  for  wounds 
upon  trees,  occasioned  by  pruning,  is  Spanish  brown 
paint,  a  little  thicker  than  pa.inters  generally  use.  Lay 
it  on  with  a  brush  and  take  care  to  cover  the  wounded 
part  thoroughly.  This  will  effectually  exclude  the  air 
and  weather,  and  nature's  healing  process  will  soon 
perform  the  cure. 


HOW    TO    PLANT    FRUIT    SEEDS. 

Put  peach,  apricot,  plum  and  cherry  stones,  and  pear 
and  quince  seeds  into  the  ground,  two  or  three  inches 
below  the  surface,  cover  them  with  earth,  and  then  lay 
over  them  a  course  of  well  rotted  manure.  I  have 
always  succeeded  in  producing  an  abundant  crop,  ex- 
cept in  one  instance  of  planting  of  peach  stones,  and 
another  of  pear  seeds;  the  non-success  of  the  former  I 
imputed  to  the  dryness  of  the  soil,  and  that  of  the  lat- 
ter to  the  destruction  of  the  seed  in  the  pumice,  it 
having  remained  in  barrels  several  days,  and  probably 
underwent  some  fermentation.  I  should  advise  the 
planting  of  fruit  stones  and  seeds  in  a  moist  but  not  a 
wet  soil. 


TO    DESTROY    THE    CATERPILLAR    ON    FRUIT    TREES. 

The  honorable  Timothy  Pickering  has  communicated 
to  the  Massachusetts  Agricultural  Society  an  eligible 
method  of  exterminating  caterpillars,  more  especially 
when  their  nests  are  constructed  on  the  extreme  bran- 
ches of  large  trees  not  accessible  by  ladders.  It  con- 
sists of  a  brush  made  of  hog's  bristles  introduced 
between  two  stiff  v/ires,  closelv  twisted,  ?iniilar  to  the 


GARDENING.  119 

common  brush  for  cleaning  the  inside  of  bottles.  A 
piece  of  wire  full  one  tenth  of  an  inch  in  diameter, 
about  three  feet  long,  doubled,  and  leaving  a  small  loop 
in  the  middle,  is  closely  twisted  for  the  length  of  about 
eight  or  ten  inches  from  the  loop;  and  then  the  bristles 
being  introduced  between  the  remainder  of  the  two 
branches  of  the  wire,  and  these  closely  twisted  upon 
them,  the  bristles  are  immoveably  fixed;  and  thus  is 
formed,  after  being  uniformly  sheared,  a  cylindrical 
brush,  about  six  inches  long  and  two  and  a  half  in 
diameter.  This  brush  is  fastened  to  the  end  of  a  long 
pole,  having  a  groove  about  seven  or  eight  inches  long 
at  the  small  end,  in  which  the  twisted  wire  of  the  brush 
was  laid  and  bound  on  with  strings.  In  using  the 
brush,  press  it  on  the  nest,  and  turning  the  pole  in  the 
hand  the  web  is  entangled  with  the  bristles  and  remo- 
ved; or  otherwise,  you  rub  the  fork  of  the  limb  inside 
and  outside  with  the  brush,  when  the  nest  and  worms 
are  surely  killed  or  brought  down.  The  pole  may  be 
longer  or  shorter  according  to  the  distance  which  you 
have  to  reach.  Numerous  other  methods  have  been 
from  time  to  time  suggested  for  the  destruction  of  these 
vermin,  but  they  may  be  destroyed  with  great  facility 
by  a  little  industry  with  the  hand  or  the  brush,  if  re- 
peated two  or  three  times  a  week  during  their  season. 
It  has  recently  been  ascertained  that  some  of  the  insects 
or  millers  which  deposit  their  eggs  from  which  the 
caterpillar  is  produced,  are  left  in  the  old  nests  after 
the  caterpillars  have  deserted  them  in  the  month  of 
June.  The  destruction  of  old  nests  therefore,  and  the 
insects  contained  in  them,  before  they  have  time  to 
deposit  their  eggs  in  August  for  the  next  year,  will 
prove  the  most  effectual  method  of  destroying  these 
troublesome  vermin  for  all  future  seasons  and  eventu- 
ally of  annihilating  the  whole  tribe. 


INDEX. 


GARDENING. 


Apple  trees,  to  raise  from  cuttings,  117 

Bags  in  a  garden,  an  effectual  way  to 

destroy, 87 

Budding  or  Inoculating,'       •        -  113 

Composts  for  Plants,  to  make,      -  51 

Caterpillars  on  fruit  trees,  to  destroy,  118 

Directions  for  making  flower-gardens,  87 


IDirections  for  attending  to  gardening 
in  January,    - 
February, 
March, 
April,     - 
May,  -        ^ 

June, 

July,  .       - 

August,  - 
September, 
October, 
Kovember, 
December,      .... 

Directions  for  cultivating  the  follow- 
ing garden  vegetables,  viz: 
"    Artichokes,      .... 
"    Asparagus,    .... 

"    Beans, 

English  dwarf. 
Kidney  dwarfs  or  snaps, 
Pole  or  running, 

"    Beet, 

Sir  John  Sinclair,    • 
Mangel  VVurtzel, 

•'    Bene  Plant,      .... 

"    Borecole,       .... 

**    Brussels  Sprouts, 

"    Brocoli, 


"  Cabbage, 

"  Cow  Cabbage. 

"  Carrot, 

"  Cauliflower, 

'•  Cucumber, 

"  Celery, 

"  Cress, 

"  Currant, 

"  Endive  or  Succory, 

"  Egg  Plant,      - 


Fennel, 
Gooseberry, 
Kale, 
Lettuce, 


100 
101 
102 

103 

61 
62 


Melon, 

Mustard, 

Nasturtium, 


Okra, 
Onion, 


Top  or  tree, 
Potato, 

Potato,  Irish, 

"       Sweet, 
Parsley, 

Parsnep,      .        .        -        - 
Peas,       .... 
Bishop's  early  prolific, 
Woodford's  new  tali  do 
Pepper,       .... 


Radish, 
Rhubarb, 

Spinage, 

Squash, 

Salsify,    - 

Strawberry, 

Skirret, 

Summer  Savory, 

Sage, 


TO 


75 

76 

76 

77 
76 


80 
81 


-    82 


83 


*'    Tomato,     - 
"    Turnip, 

"    Vegetable  Oyster, 


Fruit  and  fruit  trees,  to  cultivate,    - 
Fruit  trees,  to  force  to  blossom  and 

bear  fruit, 

Grafting  or  Engrafting, 

"      Now  mode  of,       -       •        - 
Grapes,  the  quickest  way  to  procure. 


73 


84 


85 


6S 

103 

115 
112 
117 
117 
Hawthorn  hedge  or  live  fences,  to  make,  97 
Hot  beds,  to  form,  -  -  •  -  50 
Kitchen  garden,  to  make,  •  •  56 
Orchard  grounds,  to  manage,  •      110 

Plants,  when  and  how  to  water,  86 

Plaster  for  trees,      ....      118 

Pruning, HI 

Plants,  to  preserve   from  degenera- 
cy, <S-f-  59 

Seeds,  to  select,  -       •       -        •    j1 

'«     to  germinate,  -        -        -      55 

"     to  plant,       •        •        •        -        118 

Soil  for  a  kitchen  garden,  to  select,        49 

"    Preparation  of,         ...        50 

Transplanting,  directions  for,         -      109 

Vegetables,  to  preserve,      -        -        -    60 

"      To  increase  the  number  and 

improve  the  qualities  of,        58 
"      To  improve  and  increase  parts 

of,  ....        59 


COOKERY. 


GENERAL    DIRECTIOISS    TO    THE    MISTRESS    OF    A    FAMILY. 

In  the  variety  of  female  acquirements,  though  do- 
mestic occupations  stand  not  so  high  in  esteem  as  they 
formerly  did,  yet  when  neglected,  they  produce  much 
human  misery.  There  was  a  time  when  ladies  knew 
nothing  beyond  their  own  famii}-  concerns;  but  in  the 
present  day,  there  are  many  who  know  nothing  about 
them.  Each  of  these  extremes  should  he  avoided:  but 
is  there  no  way  to  unite  in  the  female  character,  culti- 
vation of  talents  and  habits  of  usefulness?  Happil) 
there  are  still  great  numbers  in  every  situation,  whose 
example  proves  that  this  is  possible.  Instances  may  bo 
found  of  ladies  in  the  higher  walks  of  life,  who  conde- 
scend to  examine  the  accounts  of  their  house  steward; 
and,  by  overlooking  and  wisely  directing  the  expendi- 
ture of  tliat  part  of  their  husband's  income  which  falls 
under  their  own  inspection,  avoid  the  inconvenience 
of  embarrassed  circumstances. 

If  a  lady  has  never  been  accustomed,  while  single, 
to  think  of  family  management,  let  her  not  upon  that 
account  fear  that  she  cannot  attain  it;  she  may  consull 
others  who  are  more  experienced,  and  acquaint  herself 
with  the  necessary  quantities  of  the  several  articles  of 
121  L 


122  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

family  expenditure,  in  proportion  to  the  number  it  con- 
sists of,  the  proper  prices  to  pay,  &c.  &c. 

A  minute  account  of  annual  income,  and  the  times 
of  payment,  should  be  taken  in  writing;  likewise  an 
estimate  of  the  supposed  amount  of  each  article  of 
expense;  and  those  who  are  early  accustomed  to  calcu- 
lations on  domestic  articles,  will  acquire  so  accurate  a 
knowledge  of  what  their  establishment  requires,  as 
will  give  them  the  happy  medium  between  prodiga- 
lity and  parsimony,  without  acquiring  the  character  of 
meanness. 

Many  families  have  owed  their  prosperity  full  as 
much  to  the  propriety  of  female  management,  as  to  the 
knowledge  and  activity  of  the  father. 

The  following  hints  may  be  useful  as  well  as  'eco- 
nomical: 

Every  article  should  be  kept  in  the  place  best  suited 
to  it,  as  much  waste  may  be  thereby  avoided.  "Have 
a  place  for  every  thing,  and  keep  every  thing  in  its 
place." 

Vegetables  will  keep  best  on  a  stone  floor,  if  the  air 
be  excluded. — Meat  in  a  cold  dry  place. — Sugar  and 
sweetmeats  require  a  dry  place;  so  does  salt. — Candles, 
cold,  but  not  damp. — Dried  meats,  hams,  &;c.  the 
same.  All  sorts  of  seeds  for  puddings,  saloop,  rice,  &c. 
should  be  close  covered,  to  preserve  from  insects;  but 
that  will  not  prevent  it,  if  long  kept. 

Bread  is  now  so  heavy  an  article  of  expense,  that  all 
waste  should  be  guarded  against;  and  having  it  cut  in 
the  room  will  tend  much  to  prevent  it. — Since  the 
scarcity  in  1795  and  1800,  that  custom  has  been  much 
adopted.  It  should  not  be  cut  until  a  day  old.  Earth- 
en pans  and  covers  keep  it  best. 

Straw  to  lay  apples  on  should  be  quite  dry,  to  pre- 
vent a  musty  taste. 

Basil,  savory,  or  knotted  marjojum,  or  thyme  to  be 
used  when  herbs  are  ordered;  but  with  discretion,  as 
they  are  very  pungent. 

Some  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  used  for  juice  should 
be  pared  first  to  preserve  the  peel  dry;  some  should  be 
halved,  and  when  squeezed,  the  pulp  cut  out,  and  the 


COOKERY.  123 

outside  dried  for  grating.  If  for  boiling  in  any  liquid, 
the  first  way  is  best.  When  these  fruits  are  cheap,  a 
proper  quantity  should  be  bought  and  prepared  ivs 
above  directed,  especially  by  those  who  live  in  the 
country,  where  they  cannot  always  be  had;  and  they 
are  perpetually  wanted  in  cookery. 

When  whites  of  eggs  are  used  for  jelly,  or  other  pur- 
poses, contrive  to  have  pudding,  custard,  &c.  to  employ 
the  yolks  also.  Should  you  not  want  them  for  several 
hours,  beat  them  up  with  a  little  water,  and  put  them 
in  a  cool  place,  or  they  will  be  hardened  and  useless. — 
It  is  a  mistake  of  old,  to  think  that  the  whites  made 
cakes  and  puddings  heavy;  on  the  contrary,  if  beaten 
long  and  separately,  they  contribute  greatly  to  give 
lightness,  are  an  advantage  to  paste,  and  make  a  pretty 
dish  beaten  with  fruit,  to  set  in  cream,  &c. 

If  copper  utensils  be  used  in  the  kitchen,  the  cook 
should  be  charged  to  be  very  careful  not  to  let  the  tin 
be  rubbed  off,  and  to  have  them  fresh  done  when  the 
least  defect  appears,  and  never  to  put  by  any  soup, 
gravy,  &c.  in  them,  or  any  metal  utensil;  stone  and 
earthen  vessels  should  be  provided  for  those  purposes, 
as  likewise  plenty  of  common  dishes,  that  the  table-set 
may  not  be  used  to  put  by  cold  meat. 

Tin  vessels  if  kept  damp,  soon  rust,  which  causes 
holes.  Fenders,  and  tin  linings  of  flower-pots,  &c. 
should  be  painted  every  year  or  two. 

Vegetables  soon  sour,  and  corrode  metals  and  glazed 
red  v/are,  by  which  a  strong  poison  is  produced.  Some 
years  ago  the  death  of  several  gentlemen  was  occasion- 
ed at  Salt-hill,  by  the  cook  sending  a  ragout  to  the 
table,  which  she  had  kept  from  the  preceding  day  in  a 
copper  vessel  badly  tinned.  Vinegar,  by  its  acidity 
does  the  same,  the  glazing  being  of  lead  or  arsenic. 

The  best  way  of  scalding  fruits,  or  boiling  vinegar,  is 
in  a  stone  jar  on  ajiot  iron  hearth:  or  by  putting  the 
vessel  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  called  a  waterbath. 

If  chocolate,  coffee,  jelly,  gruel,  bark,  &c.  be  suffer- 
ed to  boil  over,  the  strength  is  lost. 

In  the  following  and  indeed  all  other  receipts,  though 
the  quantities  may  be  as  accurately  directed  as  possible. 


I2i  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

yet  much  must  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  per- 
son who  uses  them.  The  dilforent  tastes  of  people 
require  more  or  less  of  the  flavor  of  spices,  salt,  garlic, 
butter,  <fec.  which  can  never  be  ordered  by  general 
rules;  and  if  the  cook  has  not  a  good  taste,  and  atten- 
tion to  that  of  her  employers,  not  all  the  ingredients 
which  nature  and  art  can  furnish,  will  give  exquisite 
flavor  to  her  dishes.  The  proper  articles  should  be  at 
hand,  and  she  must  proportion  them  until  the  true  zest 
be  obtained,  and  a  variety  of  flavor  be  given  to  the  dif- 
ferent dishes  served  at  the  same  time. 

Those  who  require  maigre  dishes  will  find  abundance 
in  this  work;  and  where  they  are  not  strictly  so,  by 
suet  or  bacon  being  directed  into  the  stuflings,  the  cook 
must  use  butter  instead  thereof;  and  where  meat 
gravies  (or  stock,  as  they  are  called)  are  ordered,  those 
made  of  fish  must  be  adopted. 


TO    CHOOSE    MEATS. 

Venison, — If  the  fat  be  clear;  bright,  and  thick,  and 
the  cleft  part  smooth  and  close,  it  is  young;  but  if  the 
cleft  is  wide  and  tough,  it  is  old. 

Beef, — If  the  flesh  of  ox-beef  is  young,  it  will  have 
a  fine,  smooth,  open  grain,  be  of  good  red,  and  feei 
tender.  The  fat  should  look  white  rather  than  yellow; 
for  when  that  is  of  a  deep  color,  the  meat  is  seldom 
Kood:  beef  fed  by  oil  cakes  is  in  general  so,  and  the 
ilesh  is  flabby. 

VeaL — The  flesh  of  a  bull-calf  is  the  firmest,  but  not 
so  white.  The  fillet  of  a  cow-calf  is  generally  prefer- 
red to  the  udder.  The  whitest  is  the  most  juicy,  having 
been  made  so  by  frequent  bleeding,  and  having  had 
whiting  to  lick. 

Mutton, — Choose  this  by  the  fineness  of  its  grain, 
irood  color,  and  firm  white  fat. 

Lamb, — Observe  the  neck  of  a  fore  quarter;  if  the 
vein  is  bluish,  it  is  fresh;  if  it  has  a  green  or  yellow 
cast,  it  is  stale. 

Pork, — Pinch  the  lean,  and  if  3'oung  it  will  break. 
If  the  rind  is  tough,  thicl:,  and  cannot  easily  be  im- 


COOKERY.  125 

pressed  by  the  finger,  it  is  old.  A  thin  rind  is  a  merit 
in  all  pork.  When  fresh,  the  flesh  will  be  smooth  and 
cool;  if  clammy,  it  is  tainted. 

Bacon, — If  the  rind  is  thin,  the  fat  firm,  and  of  a  red 
tinge,  the  lean  tender,  of  a  good  color,  and  adhering  to 
the  bone,  you  may  conclude  it  good,  and  not  old. 

Hams. — Stick  a  sharp  knife  under  the  bone:  if  it 
comes  out  with  a  pleasant  smell,  the  ham  is  good;  but 
if  the  knife  be  daubed  and  has  a  bad  scent,  do  not 
buy  it. 

Fowls, — The  combs  and  legs  are  smooth  when  the  fowl 
is  young,  and  rough  when  it  is  old. 

Geese, — The  bills  and  feet  of  geese  should  be  yellow 
and  have  but  few  hairs  upon  them.  Their  feet  will  be 
pliable  when  fresh  or  recently  killed,  and  dry  and  stitF 
when  they  have  been  killed  a  long  time. 

Ducks, — The  breast  should  be  hard  and  plump,  feet 
supple.  The  feet  of  a  tame  duck  are  yellowish,  those 
of  a  wild  one  are  reddish. 

Pigeons, — They  should  be  eaten  while  they  are  fresh; 
when  thev  look  flabbv  and  discolored  about  the  under 
part,  they  have  been  kept  too  long. 

Partridges, — These  birds  have  yellow  legs,  a.nd  a 
dark  colored  bill  when  young.  They  are  not  in  season 
till  after  the  first  of  September. 


COOKING. 


Cooking  is  elfccted  by  various  methods,  of  which 
boiling  is  the  most  common,  but  the  most  objectionable; 
as  it  deprives  flesh  of  its  nutritious  juice.  A  better 
mode  of  dressing  animal  food  is  roasting^  by  which  its 
strength  is  less  dissipated;  because  a  crust  is  soon  for- 
med on  its  surface,  that  more  etfectually  preserves  the 
nutritive  particles  from  evaporation.  Hence  one  pound 
of  roasted  meat  is  in  real  nourishment,  equal  to  double 
that  quantity  of  boiled  animal  food. 

Many  substances,  though  possessed  of  salubrious 
qualities,  are  rendered  unwholesome  by  the  refinements 
of  cookery.  By  compounding  several  incongi'uous  in- 
gredients to  produce   a  poiejnant  sauce,  or  ricli  soup, 

l2 


126  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

t!ie  cook  frequently  forms  compositions  that  are  almost 
poisonous.  Thus,  high  seasoning  of  every  kind,  pickles 
and  the  like,  merely  stimulate  the  palate,  and  cannot 
iiiil  to  injure  the  stomach.  Hence,  the  plainest  dishes 
are  uniformly  the  most  conducive  to  health,  while  they 
are  most  easily  digested.  This  self-evident  proposition 
is  acknowledged  by  every  reflecting  person,  but  gives 
the  least  satisfaction  to  the  epicure,  who  consults  his  taste 
before  he  appeals  to  his  warped  understanding. 

Animal  food  is  generally  boiled  in  half  open  vessels, 
instead  of  which,  close  utensils  only  ought  to  be  em- 
ployed ibr  that  purpose.  We  therefore  recommend 
the  process  called  stewing;  as  it  is  not  only  the  most 
wholesome  mode  of  dressing  meat,  but  at  the  same  time 
well  adapted  to  retain  and  concentrate  the  most  sub- 
stantial parts  of  animal  food.  The  utility  of  preparing 
victuals  after  this  method  having  been  generally  ac- 
knowledged, we  shall  pay  particular  attention  to  it. 

Various  other  methods  will  also  be  given,  to  enable 
the  cook  to  pursue  the  most  convenient  course. 


TO    BOIL    MEATS,    &€. 

This  most  simple  of  culinary  processes  is  not  often 
performed  in  perfection,  though  it  does  not  require  so 
much  nicety  and  attendance  as  roasting;  to  skim  the 
pot  well,  and  to  keep  it  moderately  boiling,  and  to 
know  how  long  the  joint  requires,  comprehends  the 
most  useful  points  of  this  branch  of  cookery.  The  cook 
must  take  especial  care  that  the  water  really  boils  all 
the  while  she  is  cooking,  or  she  will  be  deceived  in  the 
time.  An  adept  cook  will  manage  with  much  less  fire 
for  boiling  than  she  uses  for  roasting,  and  to  last  all 
the  time  without  much  mending.  When  the  water 
is  coming  to  a  boil  there  will  always  rise  from  the 
cleanest  meat  a  scum  to  the  top;  this  must  be  carefully 
taken  off  as  soon  as  it  appears,  for  on  this  depends  the 
good  appearance  of  a  boiled  dinner.  When  you  have 
skimmed  it  well,  put  in  a  little  cold  water,  which  will 
throw  up  the  rest  of  it.  If  let  alone,  it  soon  boils  down 
and  sticks  to  the  meat,  which,  instead  of  looking  white 


COOKERY.  137 

and    healthful,    will   have    a    coarse    and    uninviting 
appearance. 

Many  cooks  put  in  milk  to  make  what  they  boil  look 
white,  but  this  does  more  harm  than  good ;  others  wrap 
the  meat  in  a  cloth;  but  if  it  is  well  skimmed  it  will 
have  a  much  more  delicate  appearance  than  when  it  is 
muffled  up. 

Put  the  meat  into  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of 
about  a  quart  to  every  pound  of  meat;  it  should  remain 
covered  during  the  whole  process  of  boiling.  Water 
beyond  what  is  absolutely  necessary  renders  the  meat 
less  savoury  and  weakens  the  broth. 

The  water  should  be  gradually  heated  according  to 
the  thickness,  &c.  of  the  article  boiled;  for  instance,  a 
leg  of  mutton  of  10  lbs.  weight  should  be  placed  over  a 
moderate  fire,  which  will  gradually  heat  the  water 
without  causing  it  to  boil,  for  about  forty  minutes.  If 
the  water  boils  much  sooner,  the  meat  will  be  hardened, 
and  shrink  up  as  if  it  were  scorched.  Reckon  the  time 
from  its  first  coming  to  a  boil;  the  slower  it  boils  the 
tenderer,  the  plumper,  and  whiter  it  will  be.  For 
tiiose  who  choose  their  food  thoroughly  cooked,  twenty 
minutes  to  a  pound  will  not  be  found  too  much  for 
gentle  simmering  by  the  side  of  the  fire.  Fresh  killed 
meat  will  take  much  longer  time  boiling  than  that 
Avhich  has  been  kept  till  what  the  butchers  call  ripe; 
if  it  be  fresh  killed  it  will  be  tough  and  hard  if  stewed 
ever  so  long,  and  ever  so  gently.  The  size  of  the 
boiling  pots  should  be  adapted  to  what  they  are  to  con- 
tain; in  small  families  we  recommend  block  tin  sauce- 
pans, &c.  as  lightest  and  safest,  taking  care  that  the 
covers  fit  close,  otherwise  the  introduction  of  smoke 
may  be  the  means  of  giving  the  meat  .a  bad  taste. 
Beef  and  mutton  a  little  underdone  is  not  a  great  fault, 
but  lamb,  pork,  and  veal  are  uneatable  and  truly  un- 
wholesome, if  not  thoroughly  'boiled.  Take  care  of 
the  liquor  in  which  poultry  or  meat  has  been  boiled,  as 
an  addition  of  peas,  herbs,  ^c.  will  convert  it  into  a 
nourishing  soup. 

1 


128  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

TO    BAKE    MEATS,    &C. 

This  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most  convenient  ways 
of  dressing  a  dinner  in  small  families,  and  although  the 
general  superiority  of  roasting  must  be  allowed,  still 
certain  joints  and  dishes,  such  as  legs  and  loins  of  pork, 
legs  and  shoulders  of  mutton,  and  tillets  of  veal,  will 
bake  to  great  advantage,  if  the  meat  be  good.  Besides 
those  joints  above  mentioned,  we  shall  enumerate  a  few 
baked  dishes  which  may  be  particularly  recommended. 

A  pig  when  sent  to  the  baker  prepared  for  baking, 
should  have  his  ears  and  tail  covered  with  buttered  pa- 
per, and  a  bit  of  butter  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  linen  to 
baste  the  back  with,  otherwise  it  will  be  apt  to  blister. 
If  well  baked  it  is  considered  equal  to  a  roasted  one. 

A  goose  prepared  the  same  as  for  roasting,  or  a  duck 
placed  upon  a  stand  and  turned,  as  soon  as  one  side  is 
done,  upon  the  other,  are  equally  good. 

A  buttock  of  beef,  prepared  as  follows,  is  particularly 
fine:  after  it  has  been  put  in  salt  about  a  week,  let  it 
be  well  washed  and  put  into  a  brown  earthen  pan  with 
a  pint  of  water;  cover  the  pan  tight  over  with  two  or 
three  thicknesses  of  cap  paper,  and  give  it  four  or  five 
hours  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

A  ham,  if  not  too  old,  put  in  soak  for  an  hour,  taken 
out  and  baked  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  cuts  fuller 
of  gravy,  and  of  a  finer  flavor  than  a  boiled  one. 

Cod  fish,  haddock,  and  mackerel,  should  have  a  dust 
of  flour  and  some  bits  of  butter  spread  over  them.  Eels 
when  large  and  stuffed,  herrings  and  sprats,  are  put  in 
a  brown  pan,  with  vinegar  and  a  little  spice,  and  tied 
over  with  paper. 

A  hare,  prepared  the  same  as  for  roasting,  with  a 
few  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  milk,  put  into  the  dish 
and  basted  several  times,  will  be  found  nearly  equal  to 
roasting:  in  the  same  manner  legs  and  shins  of  beef 
will  be  equally  good  with  proper  vegetable  seasoning. 


TO    ROAST    MEATS,    &C. 

The  first  thing  requisite  for  roasting   is    to  have  a 
strong  steady  fire,  or  a  clear  brisk  one,  according  to  the 


COOKERY.  129 

size  and  weight  of  the  joint  that  is  put  down  to  the 
spit.  A  cook,  who  does  not  attend  to  this,  will  prove 
herself  totally  incompetent  to  roast  victuals  properly. 
All  roasting  should  be  done  open  to  the  air,  to  ventilate 
the  meat  from  its  gross  fumes,  otherwise  it  will  become 
baked  instead  of  roasted.  The  joint  should  be  put 
down  at  such  a  distance  fj-oni  the  fire  as  to  imbibe  the 
heat  rather  quickly,  otherwise  its  plumpness  and  good 
quality  will  be  gradully  dried  up,  and  it  will  turn 
shrivelly,  and  look  meagre.  When  the  meat  is  first 
put  down,  it  is  necessary  to  see  that  it  balances  well  on 
the  spit,  otherwise  the  process  of  cooking  will  be  very 
troublesome.  When  it  is  warm,  begin  to  baste  it  well, 
which  prevents  the  nutritive  juice  escaping;  and,  if 
required,  additional  dipping  must  be  used  for  that 
purpose. 

As  to  sprinkling  with  salt  while  roasting,  most  able 
cooks  dispense  with  it,  as  the  penetrating  particles  of 
the  salt  have  a  tendency  to  draw  out  the  animal  juices; 
however,  a  little  salt  thrown  on,  when  first  laid  down,  is 
sometimes  necessary,  with  strong  meats.  When  the 
smoke  draws  towards  the  fire,  and  the  dropping  of  the 
clear  gravy  begins,  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  the  joint  is  near- 
ly done.  Then  take  off  the  paper,  baste  well,  and 
dredge  it  with  flour,  v.hich  brings  on  that  beautiful 
brownness  which  makes  roasted  meats  look  so  inviting. 

With  regard  to  the  time  necessary  for  roasting  various 
meats,  it  will  vary  according  to  the  different  sorts,  the 
time  it  has  been  kept,  and  the  temperature  of  the 
weather.  In  summer,  twenty  minutes  may  be  reckoned 
equal  to  half  an  hour  in  winter.  A  good  skreen,  to  keep 
off  the  chilling  current  of  air,  is  essentially  useful. — 
The  old  housewife's  rule  is  to  allow  rather  more  than  a 
<|uarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound,  and  in  most  instances 
it  proves  practically  correct. 

In  roasting  mutton  or  lamb,  the  loin,  the  chine,  and 
the  saddle,  must  have  the  skin  raised  and  skewered  on; 
and,  when  nearly  done,  take  off  this  skin,  and  baste  and 
flour  to  froth  it  up. 

Veal  requires  roasting  brown,  and  if  a  fillet  or  loin, 
be  sure  to  paper  the  fat,  that  as  little  of  it  may  be  lost 


130  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

as  possible.  When  nearly  done,  baste  it  with  butter 
and  dredge  with  flour. 

Pork  should  be  well  done.  When  roasting  a  loin, 
cut  the  skin  across  with  a  sharp  knife,  otherwise  the 
crackling  is  very  awkward  to  manage.  Stuff  the 
knuckle  part  with  sage  and  onion,  and  skewer  it  up. — 
Put  a  little  drawn  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  serve  it  up  with 
apple  sauce  in  a  tureen.  A  spare-rib  should  be  basted 
with  a  little  butter,  a  little  dust  of  flour,  and  some  sage 
and  onion  shred  small.  Apple  sauce  is  the  only  one 
which  suits  this  dish. 

Wild  fowls  require  a  clear  brisk  fire,  and  should  be 
roasted  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown,  but  not  too  much; 
yet  it  is  a  common  fault  to  roast  them  till  the  gravy  runs 
out,  thereby  losing  their  fine  flavor. 

Tame  fowls  require  more  roasting,  as  the  heat  is 
longer  in  penetrating;  they  sliould  be  often  basted,  in 
order  to  keep  up  a  strong  froth,  and  to  improve  their 
plumpness. 

Pigs  and  geese  should  be  thoroughly  roasted  before 
a  good  fire,  and  turned  quickly. 

Hares  and  rabi)its  require  time  and  care,  especially  to 
have  the  ends  sufticiently  done,  and  to  remedy  that  raw 
discolouring  at  the  neck,  &c.  which  proves  often  so 
objectionable  at  table. 


TO  REGULATE  TIME  IN  COOKERY. 

Mutton. — A  leg  of  8  lbs.  will  require  two  hours  and 
a  half.  A  chine  or  saddle  of  10  or  11  lbs.  two  hours  and 
a  half.  A  shoulder  of  7  lbs.  one  hour  and  a  half.  A 
loin  of  7  lbs.  one  hour  and  three  quarters.  A  neck  and 
breast,  about  the  same  time  as  a  loin. 

Beef, — The  sirloin  of  15  lbs.  from  three  hours  and 
three-quarters  to  four  hours.  Ribs  of  beef  from  15  to 
"iO  lbs.  will  take  three  hours  to  three  hours  and  a  half. 

Veal. — A  fillet  from  1*2  to  16  lbs.  will  take  from  four 
to  five  hours,  at  a  good  fire.  A  loin,  upon  the  average, 
will  take  tlirce  hours.  A  shoulder  from  three  hours  to 
tlirec  hours  and  a  half.  A  neck,  two  hours.  Abreast, 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 


COOKERY.  131 

Lamb, — Hind  quarter  of  8  lbs.  will  take  from  an  hour 
and  three-quarters  to  two  hours.  Fore  quarter  of  10 
lbs.  about  two  hours.  Leg  of  5  lbs.  from  an  hour  and 
a  quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half.  Shoulder,  or  breast, 
with  a  quick  fire,  an  hour. 

Pork, — A  leg  of  8  lbs.  will  require  about  three  hours. 
Griskin,  an  hour  and  a  half.  A  spare-rib  of  8  or  9 
lbs.  will  take  from  two  hours  and  a  half  to  three  hours, 
to  roast  it  thoroughly.  A  bald  spare-rib  of  8  lbs.  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  A  loin  of  5  lbs.  if  very  fat,  from 
two  hours  to  two  hours  and  a  half.  A  sucking  pig,  of 
three  weeks  old,  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Poultry/. — A  very  large  turkey  will  require  about 
three  hours;  one  of  10  lbs.  two  hours;  a  small  one  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

A  full-grown  fowl,  an  hour  and  a  quarter;  a  moder- 
ate sized  one  an  hour. 

A  pullet,  from  half  an  hour  to  40  minutes. 

A  goose,  full  grown,  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours. 

A  green  goose,  40  minutes. 

A  duck,  full  size,  from  30  to  50  minutes. 

Venison, — A  buck  haunch  which  weighs  from  20  to 
25  lbs.  will  take  about  four  hours  and  a  half  roasting: 
one  from  12  to  18  lbs.  will  take  three  hours  and  a 
quarter. 


BEEF. 


BEEF    A-LA-MODE. 

Choose  a  piece  of  thick  flank  of  a  fine  heifer  or  ox — 
cut  into  long  slices  some  fat  bacon,  but  quite  free  from 
yellow;  let  each  bit  be  near  an  inch  thick;  dip  them 
into  vinegar,  and  then  into  a  seasoning  ready  prepared, 
of  salt,  black  pepper,  alspice,  and  a  clove,  all  in  a  fine 
powder,  with  parsley,  chives,  thyme,  savoury,  and  knot- 
ted marjorum,  shred  as  small  as  possible,  and  well 
mixed.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  holes  deep  enough 
to  let  in  the  larding,  then  rub  the  beef  over  with  the 
seasoning,  and  bind  it  up  tight  with  tape.  Set  it  in  a 
well  tinned  pot  over  a  fire  or  rather  stove:  three  or 


132  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

four  onions  must  be  fried  brown  and  put  to  the  beef, 
with  two  or  three  carrots,  one  turnip,  a  head  or  two  of 
celery,  and  a  small  quantity  of  water,  let  it  simmer 
gently  ten  or  twelve  hours,  or  till  extremely  tender, 
turning  the  meat  twice. 

Put  the  gravy  into  a  pan,  remove  the  fat,  keep  the 
beef  covered,  then  put  them  together,  and  add  a  glasis 
of  port  wine.  Take  off  the  tape,  and  serve  with  the 
vegetable:  or  you  may  strain  them  off,  and  send  them 
up  cut  into  dice  for  garnish.  Onions  roasted,  and  then 
stewed  with  the  gravy,  are  a  great  improvement.  A 
tea  cup  full  of  vinegar  should  be  stewed  with  the  beef. 


A   FRICANDEAU    OF    BEEF. 

Take  a  nice  bit  of  lean  beef;  lard  it  with  bacon,  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  mace,  and  alspice.  Put 
it  into  a  stew-pan  Avith  a  pint  of  broth,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  bundle  of  parsley,  all  sorts  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
a  clove  of  garlic,  a  shallot  or  two,  four  cloves,  pepper 
and  salt.  When  the  meat  is  become  tender,  cover  it 
close,  skim  the  sauce  well,  and  strain  it,  set  it  on  the 
fire,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  glaze.  Glaze 
the  larded  side  with  this,  and  seiTe  the  meat  on  sorrel- 
sauce. 


TO    STEW    A    RUiMP    OF    BEEF. 

Wash  it  well,  and  season  it  high  with  pepper,  Cay- 
enne, salt,  alspice,  three  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace, 
all  in  fine  powder.  Bind  it  up  tight,  and  lay  it  into  a 
pot  that  will  just  hold  it.  Fry  three  large  onions  sliced, 
and  put  them  to  it,  with  three  carrots,  two  turnips,  a 
shallot,  four  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  some  celery. 
Clover  the  meat  with  good  beef  broth,  or  weak  gravy. 
Simmer  it  as  gently  as  possible  for  several  hours,  till 
quite  tender.  Clear  off  the  fat;  and  add  to  the  gravy 
half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  a  glass  of  vinegar,  and  a  large 
spoon  of  catsup.  Simmer  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in  a 
deep  dish. — Half  a  pint  of  table-beer  may  be  added. 
The  herbs  to  be  used  should  be  burnet,  tarragon,  pars- 
ley, thyme,  basil,  savoury,  marjorum,  pennyroyal,  knotted 


COOKERY.  133 

marjorum.  and  some  chives,  if  you  can  get  them,  but  ob- 
serve to  proportion  the  quantities  to  the  pungency  of 
the  several  sorts — let  there  be  a  good  handful  altogthcr. 
Garnish  with  carrots,  turnips,  or  truffles  and  morcJs, 
or  pickles  of  different  colors,  cut  small,  and  laid  in  little 
heaps  separate:  chopped  parsley,  chives,  beet-root,  &c. 
If,  when  done,  the  gravy  is  too  much  to  fill  tlie  dish, 
take  only  apart  to  season  for  serving,  but  the  less  water 
the  better:  and  to  increase  the  richness,  add  a  few  beef 
bones  and  shanks  of  mutton  in  stewing.  A  spoonful  or 
two  of  made  mustard  is  a  great  improvement  to  the 
gravy. 


TO    STEW    A    BRISKET    OF    BEEF. 

Put  the  part  that  has  the  hard  fat  into  a  stew 
pot  with  a  small  quantity  of  water;  let  it  boil  up,  and 
skim  it  thoroughly;  then  add  carrots,  turnips,  onions, 
celery,  and  a  few  pepper-corns.  8tew  it  extremely 
tender;  then  take  out  the  flat  bones,  and  remove  all 
the  fat  from  the  soup.  Either  serve  that  and  the  meat 
in  a  tureen,  or  the  soup  alone,  and  the  meat  on  a  dish, 
garnished  with  some  vegetables.  The  following  sauc<,> 
is  much  admired  served  with  the  beef: — Take  half  a 
pint  of  the  soup,  and  mix  it  with  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
a  little  flour,  a  bit  of  butter  and  salt;  boil  altogether  a 
few  minutes,  then  pour  it  round  the  meat.  Chop  capers, 
walnuts,  red  cabbage,  pickled  cucumbers,  and  chives  or 
parsley,  small,  but  in  several  heaps  over  it. 


TO    PRESS    BEEF. 

Salt  a  bit  of  brisket,  thin  part  of  the  flank,  or  the  tops 
of  the  ribs,  with  salt  and  saltpetre  five  days,  then  boil  it 
gently  till  extremely  tender;  put  it  under  a  great  weight, 
or  in  a  cheese-press,  till  perfectly  cold.  It  eats  excel- 
lently cold,  and  for  sandwiches. 


To  a  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five  pounds, 
take  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  three  ounces  of  the 

M 


134  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

coarsest  sugar,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  nutmeg,  half  an 
ounce  of  alspice,  and  three  handfuls  of  common  salt, 
all  in  the  finest  powder. 

The  beef  should  hang  two  or  three  days;  then  rub 
the  above  well  into  it,  and  turn  and  rub  every  day  for 
two  or  three  weeks.  The  bone  must  be  taken  out  at  first. 
When  to  be  dressed,  dip  it  into  cold  water,  to  take  off 
the  loose  spice,  bind  it  up  tight  with  tape,  and  put  it 
into  a  pan  with  a  tea-cup  full  of  water  at  the  bottom, 
cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  shred  suet,  and  the  pan 
with  a  brown  crust  and  paper,  and  bake  it  five  or  six 
hours. — When  cold  take  off  the  paste  and  tape. 

The  gravy  is  very  fine;  and  a  little  of  it  adds  greatly 
to  the  flavor  of  any  hash,  soup,  &c. — Both  the  gravy 
and  the  beef  will  keep  some  time. 


AN    EXCELLENT    MODE    OF    DRESSING    BEEF. 

Hang  three  ribs  three  or  four  days;  take  out  the 
bones  from  the  whole  length,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  roll 
the  meat  tight,  and  roast  it.  Nothing  can  look  nicer. 
The  above  done  with  spices,  &c.  and  baked  as  hunter's 
beef,  is  excellent. 


TO    COLLAR    BEEF. 

Choose  the  thin  end  of  the  flank  of  fine  mellow  beef, 
but  not  too  fat;  lay  it  into  a  dish  with  salt  and  salt- 
petre, turn  and  rub  it  every  day  for  a  week,  and  keep  it 
cool.  Then  take  out  every  bone  and  gristle,  remove 
the  skin  of  the  inside  part,  and  cover  it  thick  with  the 
following  seasoning  cut  small: — a  large  handful  of  pars- 
ley, the  same  of  sage,  some  thyme,  marjorum,  and  pen- 
nyroyal, pepper,  salt,  and  alspice.  Roll  the  meat  up  as 
tight  as  possible,  and  bind  it,  then  boil  it  gently  for 
seven  or  eight  hours.  A  cloth  must  be  put  round  before 
the  tape.  Put  the  beef  under  a  good  weight  while  hot, 
without  undoing  it:  the  shape  will  then  be  oval.  Part 
of  a  breast  of  veal  rolled  in  with  the  beef,  looks  and 
eats  very  well. 


COOKERY.  135 

BEEF    STEAKS. 

Should  be  cut  from  a  rump  that  has  hung  a  few  days. 
Broil  them  over  a  very  clear  or  charcoal  fire :  put  into  the 
dish  a  little  minced  challot,  and  a  table  spoonful  of  cat- 
sup: and  rub  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  steak  the  moment  of 
serving.  It  should  be  turned  often,  that  the  gravy  may 
not  be  drawn  out  on  either  side. 

This  dish  requires  to  be  eaten  so  hot  and  fresh  done, 
that  it  is  not  in  perfection  if  served  with  any  thing  else. 
Pepper  and  salt  should  be  added  when  taking  it  off 
the  fire. 


BEEF    STEAKS    AND    OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Strain  off  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  throw 
them  into  cold  water,  to  take  off  the  grit,  while  you 
simmer  the  liquor  with  a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon-peel; 
then  put  the  oysters  in,  stew  them  a  few  minutes,  add 
a  little  cream,  if  you  have  it,  and  some  butter  rubbed 
in  a  bit  of  flour;  let  them  boil  up  once,  and  have  rump- 
steaks  well  seasoned  and  broiled,  ready  for  throwing  the 
oyster  sauce  over,  the  moment  you  are  to  serve. 


STEWED    BEEF  STEAKS. 

Beat  them  with  a  little  rolling  pin,  flour  and  season, 
then  fry  them  with  sliced  onions,  of  a  fine  light  brown, 
lay  the  steaks  into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  as  much  boiling 
water  over  them  as  will  serve  for  sauce:  stew  them 
very  gently  half  an  hour,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  catsup, 
or  walnut  liquor,  before  you  serve. 


ITALIAN  BEEF   STEAKS. 

Cut  a  fine  large  steak  from  a  rump  that  has  been  well 
hung,  or  it  will  do  from  any  tender  part:  beat  it,  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  an  onion:  lay  it  into  an 
iron  stew-pan  that  has  a  cover  to  fit  quite  close,  and  set 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  without  water.  Take  care  it 
does  not  burn,  but  it  must  have  a  strong  heat:  in  two 
or  three  hours  it  will  be  quite  tender,  and  then  serve 
with  its  own  gravy. 


136  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

BEEF    COLLOPS. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  beef  from  the  rump,  or  any  other 
tender  part,  and  divide  them  into  pieces  three  inches 
long;  beat  them  with  a  blade  of  a  knife,  and  flour 
them.  Fry  the  collops  quick  in  butter  two  minutes, 
then  lav  them  into  a  small  stew-pan,  and  cover  them 
with  a  pint  of  gravy;  add  a  bit  of  butter  rubbed  in 
flour,  pepper,  salt,  the  least  bit  of  shallot,  shred  as  fine 
as  possible,  half  a  walnut,  four  small  pickled  cucumbers, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  capers  cut  small.  Take  care  that  it 
does  not  boil,  and  serve  the  stew  in  a  very  hot  covered 
dish. 


BEEF    PALATES. 

8immer  them  in  water  several  hours,  till  they  will 
peel;  then  cut  the  palates  into  slices,  or  leave  them 
whole,  as  you  choose:  and  slew  them  in  a  rich  gravy 
till  as  tender  as  possible.  Before  you  serve,  season 
them  with  Cayenne,  salt,  and  catsup.  If  the  gravy  was 
drawn  clear,  add  also  some  butter  and  flour. 

If  to  be  served  white,  boii  ihem  in  milk,  and  stew 
them  in  fricassee  sauce,  adding  cream,  butter,  flower  and 
mushroom-powder,  and  a  little  pounded  mace. 

BEEF    (JAKES    FOR    A    SIDE    DlSil    OF    DRESSED    MEAT. 

Pound  some  beef  that  is  underdone  with  a  little  fat 
bacon,  or  ham;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
shallot,  or  garlic:  mix  them  well,  and  make  it  into  small 
cakes,  three  inches  long,  and  half  as  wide  and  thick; 
fry  them  in  a  light  brown,  and  serve  them  in  a  good 
thick  gravy. 

TO    POT    BEEF. 

Take  two  poimds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  saltpetre, 
and  let  it  lie  one  night:  then  salt  with  common  salt,  and 
cover  with  water  four  days  in  a  small  pan.  Dry  it 
with  a  cloth,  and  season  with  black  pepper;  lay  it  into 
as  small  a  pan  as  will  hold  it,  cover  it  with  coarse 
paste,  and  bake  it  five  hours  in  a  very  cool  oven.  Put 
no  liquor  in. 


COOKERY.  137 

When  cold,  pick  out  the  strings  and  fat;  heat  the 
meat  very  fine  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  butter, 
just  warm;  but  not  oiled,  and  as  much  of  the  gravy  as 
will  make  it  into  a  paste;  put  it  into  very  small  pots, 
and  cover  them  with  melted  butter. 


TO    DRESS    THE    INSIDE   OF    A    COLD    SIRLOIN    OF    BEEP. 

Cut  out  all  the  meat,  and  a  little  fat,  into  pieces  as 
thick  as  your  finger,  and  two  inches  long:  dredge  il 
with  flour;  and  fry  in  butter,  of  a  nice  brown,  drain 
the  butter  from  the  meat,  and  toss  it  up  in  a  rich  gravy, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  anchovy,  and  challot.  Do 
not  let  it  boil  on  any  account.  Before  you  serve,  add 
two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Garnish  with  crimped 
parsley. 


FRICASSEE    OF    COLD    ROAST    BEEF. 

Cut  the  beef  into  very  thin  slices,  shred  a  handful  of 
parsley  very  small,  cut  an  onion  into  quarters,  and  put 
all  together  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  piece  of  butler  and 
some  strong  broth;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
simmer  very  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  mix 
into  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and 
a  spoonful  of  vinegar;  stir  it  quick,  rub  the  disli  with 
shallot,  and  turn  the  fricassee  into  it. 


TO    DRESS    COLD    BEEF    THAT    HAS    NOT    BEl^N    1X>NB 
ENOUGH,  CALLED    BEEF-OLIVES. 

Cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  four  inclies  square; 
lay  them  on  forcemeat  of  crumbs  of  bread,  shallot,  a 
little  suet,  or  fat,  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  them,  and 
fasten  with  a  small  skewer;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  some  gravy  made  of  beef  bones,  or  the  gravy  of 
the  meat,  and  a  spoonful  of  water,  and  stew  them  till 
tender.     Fresh  meat  will  do. 


TO    MINCE    BEEF. 

Shred  the  underdone  part  fine,  with  some  of  the  fat, 
put  it  into  a  small  stew-pan,  with  some  onion  or  shallot, 

M-2 


138  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

(a  very  little  will  do,)  a  little  water,  pepper,  and  salt; 
])oil  it  till  the  onion  is  quite  soft;  then  put  some  of  the 
i;ravy  of  the  meat  to  it,  and  the  mince.  Do  not  let  it 
l)oil.  Have  a  small  hot  dish  with  sippets  of  bread  rea- 
dy, and  pour  the  mince  into  it,  hut  first  mix  a  large 
spoonful  of  vinegar  with  it;  if  shallot-vinegar  is  used, 
there  will  be  no  need  of  the  onion  nor  the  raw  shallot. 


TO    HASH    BEEF. 

Do  it  the  same  as  in  the  last  receipt;  only  the  meat 
is  to  be  in  slices,  and  you  may  add  a  spoonful  of  walnut 
liquor  or  catsup. 

Observe  that  it  is  owing  to  boiling  hash  or  minces, 
that  they  get  hard.  All  sorts  of  stews,  or  meats  dres- 
sed a  second  time,  should  be  only  simmered;  and  this 
last  only  hot  through. 

BEEF    A-L  V-VINGRETTE. 

Cut  a  slice  of  underdone  boiled  beef  three  inches 
thick,  and  a  little  fat;  stew  it  in  half  a  pint  of  Avater, 
a  glass  of  white  w^ine,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion, 
and  a  bay  leaf;  season  it  with  three  cloves  pounded,  and 
pepper,  till  the  liquor  is  nearly  wasted  away,  turning  it 
once.  When  cold,  serve  it.  Strain  off  the  gravy,  and 
mix  it  v*ith  a  little  vinegar  for  sauce. 


ROUND    OF    BEEF. 

Should  be  carefully  salted,  and  wet  with  the  pickle 
for  eight  or  ten  days.  The  bone  should  be  cut  out  first, 
and  the  beef  skewered  and  tied  up,  to  make  it  quite 
round.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  parsley  if  approved;  in 
which  case  the  holes  to  admit  the  parsley  must  be  made 
with  a  sharp  ])ointed  knife,  and  the  parsley  coarsely 
cut,  and  stuffed  in  tight. — As  soon  as  it  boils  it  should 
be  skimmed,  and  afterwards  kept  boiling  very  gently. 


ROLLED    BEEF    THAT    EQUALS    HARE. 

Take  tlie  inside  of  a  large  sirloin,  soak  it  in  a  glass 
of  port  wine  and  a  glass  of  vinegar  mixed,  for  forty- 
eight  hours:  liave  ready  a  \qv\  fine  stuffing,  and  bind  it 


COOKERY.  139 

up  tight.  Roast  it  on  a  hang;ing  spit,  and  baste  it  with 
a  glass  of  port  wine,  the  same  quantity  of  vinegar,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  pounded  alspice. — Larding  improves 
the  look  and  flavor:  serve  with  rich  gravy  in  the  dish; 
currant-jelly  and  melted  butter  in  tureens. 

TO    ROAST    TONGUE    AND    UDDER. 

After  cleaning  the  tongue  well,  salt  it  with  common 
salt  and  saltpetre  three  days;  then  boil  it,  and  likewise 
a  fine  young  udder  with  some  fat  to  it,  till  tolerably 
tender;  then  tie  the  thick  part  of  one  to  the  thin  part 
of  the  other,  and  roast  the  tongue  and  udder. 

Serve  them  with  good  gravy,  and  currant-jelly  sauce. 
A  few  cloves  should  be  stuck  in  the  udder. 


TO    STEW    TONGUE. 

Salt  a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  common  salt  for  a 
week,  turning  it  every  day.  Boil  it  tender  enough  to 
peel:  when  done,  stew  it  in  a  moderately  strong  gravy; 
season  with  soy,  mushroom  catsup,  Cayenne,  pounded 
cloves,  and  salt,  if  necessary. 

Serve  with  truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms.  In  both 
this  receipt  and  the  next,  the  roots  must  be  taken  off" 
before  salting,  but  some  fat  left. 


AN    EXCELLENT    WAY    OF    DOING    TONGUES    TO    EAT    COLD. 

Season  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre,  brown  sugar, 
a  little  bay-salt,  pepper,  cloves,  mace  and  alspice,  in  fine 
powder  for  a  fortnight;  then  take  away  the  pickle,  put 
the  tongue  into  a  small  pan,  and  lay  some  butter  on  it; 
cover  it  with  brown  crust,  and  bake  slowly  till  so  tender 
that  a  straw  would  go  through  it. 

The  thin  part  of  tongues,  when  hung  up  to  dry, 
grates  like  hung  beef,  and  also  makes  a  fine  addition  to 
the  flavor  of  omelets. 


BEEF-IIEART. 

Wash  it  carefully;  stuff  as  a  hare;  and  serve  with 
rich  gravy,  and  currant-jelly  sauce.  Hash  with  the 
same,  and  port  wine. 


140  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

STEWED   OX-CHEEK,    PLAIN. 

Soak  and  cleanse  a  fine  cheek  the  day  before  it  is  to 
be  eaten ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pot  that  will  cover  close, 
with  three  quarts  of  water;  simmer  it  after  it  has  first 
boiled  up  and  been  well  skimmed.  In  two  hours  put 
plenty  of  carrots,  leeks,  two  or  three  turnips,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  some  whole  pepper,  and  four  ounces  of 
alspice.  Skim  it  often;  when  the  meat  is  tender  take 
it  out:  let  the  soup  get  cold,  take  off  the  cake  of  fat, 
and  serve  the  soup  separate  or  with  meat. 

It  should  be  a  fine  brown;  which  might  be  done  by 
burnt  sugar;  or  by  frying  some  onions  quite  brown  with 
flour,  and  simmering  them  with  it.  This  last  way  im- 
proves the  flavor  of  all  soups  and  gravies  of  the  brown 
kind. 

If  vegetables  are  not  approved  of  in  the  soup,  they 
may  be  taken  out,  and  a  small  roll  toasted,  or  bread 
fried  and  added.  Celery  is  a  great  addition,  and 
should  always  be  served.  Where  it  is  not  to  be  got, 
the  seed  of  it  gives  quite  as  good  a  flavor,  boiled  in,  and 
strained  off. 


TO    DRESS   OX-CHEEK    ANOTHER    WAY. 

Soak  half  a  head  three  hours,  and  clean  it  with 
plenty  of  water.  Take  the  meat  off  the  bones;  and 
put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  large  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  some  bruised  alspice,  pepper  and  salt. 

Lay  the  bones  on  the  top*:  pour  on  two  or  three 
quarts  of  water,  and  cover  the  pan  close  with  brown 
paper,  or  a  dish  that  will  fit  close.  Let  it  stand  eight 
or  ten  hours  in  a  slow  oven ;  or  simmer  it  by  the  side 
of  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  When  done  tender, 
put  the  meat  into  a  clean  pan  and  let  it  get  cold. — 
Take  the  cake  of  fat  off,  and  warm  the  head  in  pieces 
in  the  soup.     Put  what  vegetables  you  choose. 


MARROW    BONES. 

Cover   the  top  with   floured  cloth;  boil  them   and 
serve  with  dry  toast. 


COOKERY.  141 

TRIPE 

May  be  served  in  a  tureen,  stewed  with  milk  and 
onion  till  tender.     Melted  butter  for  sauce. 

Or  fry  it  in  small  bits  dipped  in  batter. 

Or  stew  the  thin  part,  cut  into  bits,  in  gravy;  thick- 
en with  flour  and  butter,  and  add  a  little  catsup. 

Or  fricassee  it  with  white  sauce. 


SOUSED    TRIPE. 

Boil  the  tripe,  but  not  quite  tender;  then  put  it  into 
salt  and  water,  which  must  be  changed  every  day  till  it 
is  all  used.  When  you  dress  the  tripe,  dip  it  into 
batter  of  flour  and  eggs,  and  fry  it  of  a  good  brown. 


PORK. 


The  sides  of  a  hog  are  made  into  bacon,  and  the  in- 
side is  cut  out  with  very  little  meat  to  the  bone.  On 
each  side  there  is  a  large  spare-rib;  which  is  usually 
divided  into  two,  one  sweet-bone,  and  a  blade-bone. 
The  bacon  is  the  whole  outside:  and  contains  a  fore- 
leg and  a  ham;  which  last  is  the  hind-leg,  but  if  left 
with  the  bacon,  it  is  called  a  gammon. 


TO    ROAST    A    LEG    OF    PORK. 

Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork:  cut  a  slit  in 
the  knuckle  with  a  sharp  knife;  and  fill  the  space  with 
sage  and  onion  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
When  half-done,  score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do  not  cut 
deeper  than  the  outer  rind. 

Apple  sauce  and  potatoes  should  be  served  to  eat 
with  it. 


TO    BOIL    A    LEG    OF    PORK. 

Salt  it  eight  or  ten  days:  when  it  is  to  be  dressed, 
weigh  it;  let  it  lie  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  to  make 
it  white:  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  every  pound, 
and  half  an  hour  over  for  the  time  it  boils  up;  skim  it 
as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  frequently  after.  Allow  water 
enough.     Save  some  of  it  to  make  pea-soup.     Some 


142  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

boil  it  in  a  very  nice  cloth,  floured ;  which  gives  a  verj 
delicate  look.  It  should  be  small  and  of  a  fine  grain. 
Serve  pease-pudding  and  turnips  with  it. 

LOIN    AND    NECK    OF    PORK. 

Roast  them.  Cut  the  skin  of  the  loin  across,  at 
distances  of  half  an  inch,  with  a  sharp  knife. 

SHOULDERS    AND    BREASTS    OF    PORK. 

Put  them  into  pickle,  or  salt  the  shoulder  as  a  leg: 
vyrhen  very  nice,  they  may  be  roasted. 

SPARE-RIB 

Should  be  basted  with  butter  and  a  little  flour,  and 
then  sprinkled  with  dried  sage  crumbled.  Apple  sauce 
and  potatoes  should  be  served  up  with  roasted  pork. 


BLADE-EONE    OF    PORK 

Is  taken  from  the  bacon-hog;  the  less  meat  left  on  it, 
in  moderation,  the  better.  It  is  to  be  broiled;  and 
when  just  done,  pepper  and  salt  it.  Put  to  it  a  piece 
of  butter  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard;  and  serve  it 
covered,  quickly. 


PORK    STEAKS. 

Cut  them  from  a  loin  or  neck,  and  of  middling 
thickness:  pepper  and  broil  them,  turning  them  often; 
when  nearly  done,  put  on  salt,  rub  a  bit  of  butter  over, 
and  serve  the  moment  they  are  taken  off  the  fire,  a  few 
at  a  time. 


SAUSAGES. 

Chop  fat  and  lean  pork  together;  season  it  with  sage, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  you  may  add  two  or  three  berries 
of  alspice ;  half  fill  hog's  intestines  that  have  been 
soaked  and  made  clean:  or  the  meat  may  be  kept  in  a 
very  small  pan  closely  covered:  and  so  rolled  and  dusted 
with  very  little  flour  before  it  is  fried.  They  must  be 
pricked  with  a  fork  before  they  are  dressed,  or  they 
will  burst. 


COOKERY.  143 

AN    EXCELLENT    SAUSAGE    TO    EAT    COLD. 

Season  lean  and  fat  pork  with  some  salt,  saltpetre, 
black  pepper,  and  alspice,  all  in  fine  powder,  and  rub 
into  the  meat;  the  sixth  day  cut  it  small,  and  mix  with 
it  some  shred  shallot  or  garlic,  as  fine  as  possible. — 
Have  ready  an  ox-intestine  that  has  been  scoured, 
salted,  and  soaked  well,  and  fill  it  with  the  above  stuff 
ing;  tie  up  the  ends,  and  hang  it  to  smoke  as  you  would 
hams,  but  first  wrap  it  in  a  fold  or  or  two  of  old  muslin. 
It  must  be  high-dried.  Some  eat  it  without  boiling, 
but  others  like  it  boiled  first.  The  skin  should  be  tied 
in  different  places,  so  as  to  make  each  link  about  eight 
or  nine  inches  long. 

TO  ROAST    A    PIG. 

If  you  can  get  it  when  just  killed,  this  is  of  great  ad- 
vantage. Let  it  be  scalded,  which  the  dealers  usually 
do;  then  put  some  sage,  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  and 
pepper,  into  the  belly,  and  sew  it  up.  Observe  to 
skewer  the  legs  back,  or  the  under  part  will  not  crisp. 

Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dry;  then  have 
ready  some  butter  in  a  dry  cloth,  and  rub  the  pig  with 
it  in  every  part.  Dredge  as  much  flour  over  as  will 
possibly  lie,  and  do  not  touch  it  again  till  ready  to  serve; 
then  scrape  off  the  flour  very  carefully  with  a  blunt 
knife,  rub  it  well  with  the  buttered  cloth.  When  done, 
take  it  up;  and  without  withdrawing  the  spit,  cut  it 
down  the  back  and  belly,  lay  it  into  the  dish,  and  chop 
the  sage  and  bread  quickly,  as  fine  as  you  can,  and  mix 
them  with  a  large  quantity  of  fine  melted  butter  that 
has  very  little  flour.  Put  the  sauce  into  the  dish  after 
the  pig  has  been  split  down  the  back,  and  garnished 
with  the  ears  and  the  two  jaws;  take  off  the  upper  part 
of  the  head  down  to  the  snout. 


TO    MAKE    EXCELLENT    MEAT    OF    A    HOg's    HEAD. 

Split  the  head,  tfike  out  the  brains,  cut  off  the  ears, 
and  sprinkle  it  with  common  salt  for  a  day;  then  drain 
it:  salt  it  well  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre  three 
days,  then  lay  the  salt  and  head  into  a  small  quantity  of 


144  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

water  for  two  days.  Wash  it,  and  boil  it  till  all  the 
bones  will  come  out;  remove  them,  and  chop  the  head 
as  quick  as  possible:  but  first  skin  the  tongue,  and  take 
the  skin  carefully  off  the  head,  to  put  under  and  over. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mace  or  alspice 
berries.  Put  the  skin  into  a  small  pan,  press  the  cut 
head  in,  and  put  the  other  skin  over;  press  it  down. 
If  too  fat,  you  may  put  a  few  bits  of  lean  pork  to  be 
prepared  the  same  way.  Add  salt  and  vinegar,  and 
boil  these  with  some  of  the  liquor  for  a  pickle  to 
keep  it. 


JELLY    OF    pig's    FEET    AND    EARS. 

Clean  and  boil  them  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  wa- 
ter, till  every  bone  can  be  taken  out;  throw  in  half  a 
handful  of  chopped  sage,  the  same  of  parsley,  and  a 
seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and  mace  in  fine  powder; — 
simmer  till  the  herbs  are  scalded,  then  pour  the  whole 
off  to  cool. 


MUTTON. 


OBSERVATIONS    ON    CUTTING    AND    DRESSING   MUTTON. 

Take  away  the  pipe  that  runs  along  the  bone  of  the 
inside  of  a  chine  of  mutton;  and  if  to  be  kept  a  great 
time,  rub  the  part  close  round  the  tail  with  salt,  after 
first  cutting  out  the  kernel. 

Every  kernel  should  be  taken  out  of  all  sorts  of 
meats  as  soon  as  brought  in:  then  wipe  dry. 

For  roasting,  it  should  hang  as  long  as  it  will  keep, 
the  hind  quarter  especially,  but  not  so  long  as  to  taint; 
for  whatever  fashion  may  authorize,  putrid  juices  ought 
not  to  be  taken  into  the  stomach. 


NECK    OF   MUTTON. 

This  is  particularly  useful,  as  so  many  dishes  may  be 
made  of  it;  but  it  is  not  advantageous  for  the  family. 
The  bones  should  be  cut  short,  which  the  butchers  will 
not  do  unless  particularly  desired. 

The  best  end  of  the  neck  may  be  boiled,  and  served 
with  turnips,  or  roasted,  or  dressed  in  steaks,  and  in  pies. 


COOKERY.  145 

The  scrag  may  be  stewed  in  broth;  or  with  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  some  small  onions,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, and  a  little  rice,  and  served  together.  ^V^hen  a 
neck  is  to  be  boiled  to  look  particularly  nice,  saw  down 
the  chine-bone,  strip  the  rib  halfway  down,  and  chop 
off  the  ends  of  the  bones  about  four  inches.  The  skin 
should  not  be  taken  off  till  boiled. 


TO    DRESS    A    HAUNCH    OF    MUTTON. 

Keep  it  as  long  as  it  can  be  preserved  sweet  by  the 
different  modes;  let  it  be  washed  with  warm  milk  and 
water,  or  vinegar,  if  necessary;  but  when  to  be  dressed, 
observe  to  wash  it  well  lest  the  outside  should  have  a 
bad  flavour  from  keeping.  Put  a  paste  of  coarse  flour 
or  strong  paper,  and  fold  the  hauch  in;  set  it  a  great 
distance  from  the  fire,  and  allow  a  proportionable  time 
for  the  paste;  do  not  take  it  off  till  about  thirty -five  or 
forty  minutes  before  serving,  and  then  baste  it  continu- 
ally. Bring  the  haunch  nearer  to  the  fire  before  you 
take  off  the  paste,  and  froth  it  up  as  you  would  venison. 

A  gravy  must  be  made  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loin 
of  old  mutton,  simmered  in  a  pint  of  water  to  half,  and 
no  seasoning  but  salt;  brown  it  with  a  little  burnt  sugar, 
and  send  it  up  in  the  dish;  but  there  should  be  a  good 
deal  of  gravy  in  the  meat,  for  though  long  at  the  fire, 
the  distance  and  covering  will  prevent  its  roasting  out. 
Serve  with  currant-jelly  sauce. 


TO    ROAST    A    SADDLE    OF    MUTTON. 

Let  it  be  well  kept  first.  Raise  the  skin  and  then 
skewer  it  on  again;  take  it  off  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
before  serving,  sprinkle  it  with  some  salt,  baste  it,  and 
dredge  it  well  with  flour.  The  rump  should  be  split, 
and  skewered  back  on  each  side.  The  joint  may  be 
large  or  small  according  to  the  company;  it  is  the  most 
elegant  if  the  latter.  Being  broad,  it  requires  a  high 
and  strong  fire. 

N 


146  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

BREAST    OF    MUTTON. 

Cut  off  the  superfluous  fat,  and  roast  and  serve  the 
meat  with  stewed  cucumbers;  or  to  eat  cold,  covered 
with  chopped  parsley.  Or  half  broil,  and  then  grill  it 
before  the  fire;  in  which  case  cover  it  with  crumbs  and 
herbs,  and  serve  with  caper-sauce. — Or  if  boned,  take 
off  a  good  deal  of  fat,  and  cover  it  with  bread,  herbs, 
and  seasoning,  then  roll,  boil,  and  serve  with  capers  and 
butter. 


TO    ROLL    LOIN    OF    MUTTON. 

Hang  the  mutton  till  tender;  bone  it;  and  lay  a 
seasoning  of  pepper,  alspice,  nutmeg,  and  a  few  cloves, 
all  in  fine  powder,  over  it.  Next  day  prepare  a  stuffing 
as  for  hare;  beat  the  meat,  and  cover  it  with  the  stuf 
fing;  roll  it  up  tight,  and  tie  it.  Half-bake  it  in  a  slow 
oven;  let  it  grow  cold;  take  off  the  fat,  and  put  the 
gravy  into  a  stew  pan;  flour  the  meat,  and  put  it  in 
likewise,  stew  it  till  almost  ready,  and  add  a  glass  of 
port  wine,  some  catsup,  an  anchovy,  and  a  little  lemon 
pickle,  half  an  hour  before  serving;  serve  it  in  the 
gravy,  and  with  jelly  sauce.  A  few  mushrooms  are  a 
great  improvement;  but  if  to  eat  like  hare,  do  not  use 
these,  nor  the  lemon  pickle. 


MUTTON    COLLOPS. 

Take  a  loin  of  mutton  that  has  been  well  hung;  and 
cut  from  the  part  next  the  leg,  some  collops  very  thin. 
Take  out  the  sinews.  Season  the  collops  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  mace;  and  strew  over  them  shred  parsley, 
thyme,  and  two  or  three  shallots;  fry  them  in  butter  till 
half  done;  add  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  juice  of 
lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour;  and 
simmer  the  whole  very  gently  five  minutes.  They 
should  be  served  immediately,  or  they  will  be  hard. 


MUTTON    STEAKS. 

These  should  be  cut  from  a  loin  or  neck;  if  a  neck, 
the  bones  should  not  be  long.  They  should  be  broiled 
on  a  clear  fire,  seasoned  when  half  done,  and  often 


COOKERY.  147 

turned ;  take  them  up  into  a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  bit  of 
butter  on  each,  and  serve  hot  the  moment  they  are 
done. 


BIUTTON    SAUSA.GE. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  rawest  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton 
that  has  been  either  roasted  or  boiled;  chop  it  extreme- 
ly small,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg; 
add  to  it  six  ounces  of  beef  suet,  some  sweet  herbs,  two 
anchovies,  and  a  pint  of  oysters;  all  chopped  very 
small;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  some  of 
the  anchovy  liquor,  and  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Put  it  all,  when  well  mixed,  into  a 
little  pot,  and  use  it  by  rolling  it  into  balls  of  a  sausage- 
shape  and  frying. 


AN    EXCELLENT    HOTCH-POTCH. 

Stew  pease,  lettuce,  and  onions,  in  a  very  little  water^ 
with  a  beef  or  ham  bone.  While  these  are  doing,  fry 
some  mutton  or  lamb  steaks  seasoned,  of  a  nice  brown; 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  before  dinner,  put  the  steaks 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  the  vegetables  over  them;  stew 
them,  and  serve  altogether. 


LAMB. 


LEG    OF    LAMB. 

This  should  be  boiled  in  a  cloth  to  look  as  white  as 
possible.  The  loin  should  be  fried  in  steaks  and  served 
round,  garnished  with  dried  or  fried  parsley,  spinach  to 
eat  with  it;  or  dressed  separately  or  roasted. 


FORE-QUARTER    OF    LAMB. 

Roast  it  either  whole  or  in  separate  parts.  If  left 
to  be  cold,  chopped  parsley  should  be  sprinkled  over  it. 
The  neck  and  breast  together  are  called  a  scoven. 


BREAST  OF  LAMB  AND  CUCUMBERS. 

Cut  off  the  chin-bone  from  the  breast,  and  set  it  on 
to  stew  with  a  pint  of  gravy.     When  the  bones  would 


148  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

draw  out,  put  it  on  the  gridiron  to  grill;  and  then  lay 
it  in  a  dish  of  cucumbers  nicely  stewed. 


LAMB    STEAKS. 

Fry  them  to  a  beautiful  brown  color;  when  served 
throw  over  them  a  good  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread 
fried,  and  crimped  parsley. 

Mutton  or  lamb-steaks  seasoned  or  broiled  in  butter- 
ed papers,  either  with  crumbs  and  herbs,  or  without, 
are  a  genteel  dish,  and  are  palatable. 

A    VERY    NICE    DISH. 

Take  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  lamb,  cut  it  into 
steaks,  and  chop  each  bone  so  short  as  to  make  the  steaks 
almost  round.  Egg,  and  stew  with  crumbs,  herbs,  and 
seasoning;  fry  them  of  the  finest  brown,  mash  some 
potatoes  with  a  little  butter  and  cream,  and  put  them 
into  the  middle  of  the  dish  raised  high.  Then  place 
the  edge  of  one  steak  on  another  with  the  small  bone 
upwards,  all  round  the  potatoes. 


VEAL. 

TO    KEEP    VEAL. 

The  first  part  that  turns  bad  of  a  leg  of  veal,  is 
Avhere  the  udder  is  skcAvered  back.  The  skewer  should 
be  taken  out,  and  both  that  and  the  meat  under  it 
wiped  very  dry,  by  which  means  it  will  keep  good 
three  or  four  days  in  hot  weather. 


LEG    OF    VEAL. 

Let  the  fillet  be  cut  large  or  small,  as  best  suits  the 
number  of  your  company.  Take  out  the  bone,  fill  the 
space  with  fine  stuffing,  and  let  it  be  skewered  quite 
round;  and  send  the  large  side  uppermost.  When 
half  roasted,  if  not  before,  put  a  paper  over  the  fat; 
and  take  care  to  allow  a  sufficient  time,  and  put  it  a 
good  distance  from  the  fire,  as  the  meat  is  very  solid; 
serve  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it. 


COOKERY.  149 

KNUCKLE    OF    VEAL. 

As  few  people  are  fond  of  boiled  veal,  it  may  be  well 
to  leave  the  knuckle  small,  and  take  oflf  some  cutlets 
or  collops  before  it  be  dressed;  and  as  the  knuckle  will 
keep  longer  than  the  fillet,  it  is  best  not  to  cut  off  the 
slices  till  wanted.  Break  the  bone  to  make  it  take 
less  room;  wash  it  well;  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  onions,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns; cover  it  with  water,  and  simmer  it  till  quite 
ready.  In  the  meau  time  some  macaroni  should  be 
boiled  with  it  if  approved,  or  rice,  or  a  little  rice  flour, 
to  give  it  a  small  degree  of  thickness.  Before  it  is 
served,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  cream,  and  let  it 
come  up  either  with  or  without  the  meat. 

Or  fry  the  knuckle  with  sliced  onions  and  butter  to  a 
good  brown;  and  have  ready  pease,  lettuce,  onion,  and  a 
cucumber  or  two,  stewed  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
an  hour;  then  add  these  to  the  veal;  and  stew  it  till  the 
meat  is  tender  enough  to  eat,  but  not  overdone.  Throw 
in  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  shred  mint,  and  serve 
altogether. 


SHOULDER    OP   VEAL. 

Cut  off  the  knuckle,  for  a  stew  or  gravy.  Roast  the 
other  part  for  stuffing;  you  may  lard  it.  Serve  with 
melted  butter. 

The  blade-bone,  with  a  good  deal  of  meat  left  on, 
eats  extremely  well  with  mushroom  or  oyster-sauce,  or 
mushroom-catsup  in  butter. 


NECK    OF    VEAI>. 

Cut  off  the  scrag  to  boil,  and  cover  it  with  onion 
tauce.  It  should  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water.  Parsley 
and  butter  may  be  served  with  it,  instead  of  onion-sauce. 

Or  it  may  be  stewed  with  whole  rice,  small  onions, 
and  pepper-corns,  with  a  very  little  water. 

Or  boiled,  eaten  with  bacon  and  greens. 

The  breast  end  may  be  either  roasted,  broiled  as 
•teaks,  or  made  into  pies. 

n2 


150  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

NECK    OF    VEAL    A-L\-BR.\ISE. 

Lard  the  breast  end  with  bacon  rolled  in  parsley 
•  hopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg:  put  it  into  a 
losser,  and  cover  it  with  water.  Put  to  it  the  scrag- 
end,  a  little  lean  bacon  or  ham,  an  onion,  two  carrots, 
two  heads  of  celery,  and  about  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine. 
Stew  it  quick  two  hours,  or  till  it  is  tender,  but  not  too 
much.  Strain  off  the  liquor:  mix  a  little  flour  and 
butter  in  a  stew-pan  till  brown,  and  lay  the  veal  in  this, 
the  upper  side  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Let  it  be 
over  the  fire  till  it  gets  colored;  then  lay  it  into  the 
dish,  stir  some  of  the  liquor  in  and  boil  it  up,  skim  it 
nicely,  and  squeeze  orange  or  lemon-juice  into  it. 


BREAST    OF    VEAL. 

Before  roasted,  if  large,  the  two  ends  may  be  taken 
off  and  fried,  or  the  whole  may  be  roasted.  Butter 
should  be  poured  over  it. 

If  any  be  left,  cut  the  pieces  into  handsome  sizes,  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  some  broth  on  it;  or  if 
you  have  no  broth,  a  little  water  will  do:  add  a  bunch 
of  herbs,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  pepper  and  an 
anchovy;  stew  till  the  meat  is  tender,  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour;  and  a  little  catsup. 

Serve  the  sweet  bread  whole  upon  it,  which  may 
either  be  stewed,  or  parboiled,  and  then  covered  with 
crumbs,  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  browned  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 


TO    POT    VEAL    OR    CHICKEN    WITH    HAM. 

Pound  some  cold  veal  or  white  of  chicken  seasoned 
as  directed  in  the  last  article,  and  put  layers  of  it  with 
layers  of  ham  pounded  or  rather  shred;  press  each 
down,  and  cover  with  butter. 


VEAL    COLLOPS. 

Cut  long  thin  coUops;  beat  them  well,  and  lay  on 
them  a  bit  of  thin  bacon  of  the  same  size,  and  spread 
forcemeat  on  llmt,  seasoned  high,  and  also  a  little  Cay- 
enne.    Roll  1  h(^m  up  tight,  about  the  size  of  two  fingers, 


COOKERY.  151 

but  no  more  than  two  or  three  inches  long;  put  a  very 
small  skewer  to  fasten  each  firmly;  rub  egg  ov^er  them: 
fry  to  a  fine  brown,  and  pour  a  rich  brown  gravy  over. 

VEAL    CAKE. 

Boil  six  or  eight  eggs  hard;  cut  the  yolks  in  two,  and 
lay  some  of  the  pieces  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot:  shake 
in  a  little  chopped  parsley,  some  slices  of  veal  and  ham, 
then  add  eggs  again;  shaking  in  after  each  some  chop- 
ped parsley,  with  pepper  and  salt,  till  the  pot  is  fiill. 
Then  put  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  lay  on  it 
about  an  ounce  of  butter;  tie  it  over  with  a  double  pa- 
per, and  bake  it  about  an  hour.  Then  press  it  close 
together  with  a  spoon,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold. 

It  may  be  put  into  a  small  mould ;  and  then  it  will 
turn  out  beautifully  for  a  supper  or  side  dish. 


TO    BOIL    CALF  S    HEAD. 

Clean  it  very  nicely,  and  soak  it  in  water  till  white; 
take  out  the  tongue  to  salt,  and  the  brains  to  make  a 
little  dish.  Boil  the  head  extremely  tender;  then 
strew  it  over  with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  and 
brown  them;  or  if  liked  better,  leave  one  side  plain. 
Bacon  and  greens  are  to  be  served  with  it. 

The  brains  must  be  boiled;  and  then  mixed  with 
melted  butter,  scalded  sage  chopped,  pepper,  and  salt. 

If  any  of  the  head  is  left,  it  may  be  hashed  next  day, 
and  a  few  slices  of  bacon  just  warmed  and  put  round. 
Cold  calf's  head  eats  well  if  grilled. 


Clean  and  half  boil  a  head ;  cut  the  meat  into  small 
bits,  and  put  it  into  a  tosser,  with  a  little  gravy  made 
of  the  bones,  some  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Season 
the  gravy  with  a  little  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt,  rub 
down  some  flour  and  butter,  and  give  all  a  boil  together; 
then  take  out  the  herbs  and  onion,  and  add  a  little  cup 
of  cream,  but  do  not  boil  it  in.  Serve  with  small  bite 
of  bacon  rolled  round,  and  balls. 


X52  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

MOCK    TURTLE. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  the  tureen,  and 
pour  the  soup  upon  it. 

Prepare  half  a  calfs  head  without  the  skin:  when  the 
meat  is  cut  off,  break  the  bones,  and  put  them  into  a 
gauce-pan  with  some  gravy  made  of  beef  and  veal  bones, 
and  seasoned  with  fried  onions,  herbs,  mace,  and  pepper. 
Have  ready  two  or  three  ox-palates  boiled  so  tender  as 
to  blanch,  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  to  which  a  cow 
heel,  likewise  cut  into  pieces,  is  a  great  improvement. 
Brown  some  butter,  flour,  and  onion,  and  pour  the  gravy 
to  it;  then  add  the  meats  as  above,  and  stew.  Half  a 
pint  of  sherry,  an  anchovy,  two  spoonfuls  of  walnut 
catsup,  the  same  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  some  chop- 
ped herbs. 

SOUPS  AND  GRAVIES. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS  RESPECTING  SOUPS  AND  GRA\^E9. 

When  there  is  any  fear  of  gravy-meat  being  spoiled 
before  it  be  wanted,  season  well,  and  fry  it  lightly, 
which  will  preserve  it  two  days  longer;  but  the  gravy 
is  best  when  the  juices  are  fresh. 

When  soups  or  gravies  are  to  be  put  by,  let  them  be 
changed  every  day  into  fresh  scalded  pans.  Whatever 
has  vegetables  boiled  in  it,  is  apt  to  turn  sour  sooner 
than  the  juices  of  meat.  Never  keep  any  gravy,  &c. 
in  metal. 

When  fat  remains  on  any  soup,  a  tea-cupful  of  flour 
and  water  mixed  quite  smooth,  and  boiled  in,  will 
take  it  off. 

If  richness  or  greater  consistency  be  wanted,  a  good 
lump  of  butter  mixed  with  flour,  and  boiled  in  the  soup, 
will  give  either  of  these  qualities. 

Long  boiling  is  necessary  to  give  the  full  flavor  of 
the  ingredients,  therefore  time  should  be  allowed  for 
soups  and  gravies;  and  they  are  best  if  made  the  day 
before  they  are  wanted. 

Soups  and  gravies  are  far  better  when  the  meat  is 
put  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  stewed,  and  the  herbs, 
roots,  &c.  with  butter,  than  when  water  is  put  to  the 


COOKERY.  153 

meat  at  first;  and  the  gravy  that  is  drawn  from  the  meat 
should  be  almost  dried  up  before  the  water  is  put  to  it. 
Do  not  use  the  sediment  of  gravies,  &c.  that  have 
stood  to  be  cold.  When  onions  are  strong,  boil  a  turnip 
with  them,  if  for  sauce:  this  will  make  them  mild. 

If  soups  or  gravies  are  too  weak,  do  not  cover  them 
up  in  boiling,  that  the  watery  particles  may  evaporate. 

A  clear  jelly  of  cow-heels  is  very  useful  to  keep  in 
the  house,  being  a  great  improvement  to  soups  and 
gravies. 


VEAL    BROTH. 

Stew  a  small  knuckle  in  about  three  quarts  of  water, 
two  ounces  of  rice,  a  little  salt,  and  a  iDlade  of  mace, 
till  the  liquor  is  half  wasted  away. 


A    PLAINER    WHITE    SOUP. 

Two  or  three  pints  of  soup  may  be  made  of  a  small 
knuckle  of  veal,  with  the  proper  seasoning;  and  both 
served  together,  with  the  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  good  milk.  Two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  little 
ground  rice,  will  give  it  a  proper  thickness. 


OLD  PEASE  SOUP. 

Save  the  water  of  boiling  pork  or  beef;  and  if  too 
salt,  put  as  much  fresh  water  to  it;  or  use  fresh  water 
entirely,  with  roast  beef  bones,  a  ham  or  gammon-bone, 
or  an  anchovy  or  two.  Simmer  these  with  some  good 
whole  or  split  pease;  the  smaller  the  quantity  of  water 
at  first,  the  better.  Simmer  till  the  pease  will  pulp 
through  a  colander:  then  set  the  pulp,  and  more  of  the 
liquoi-  that  boiled  the  pease,  with  twQ  carrots,  a  turnip, 
a  leek,  and  a  stick  of  celery  cut  into  bits,  to  stew  till  all 
is  quite  tender.  The  last  requires  less  time;  an  hour 
will  do  for  it. 

When  ready,  put  fried  bread  cut  into  dice,  dried 
mint  rubbed  fine,  pepper,  and  (if  wanted)  salt,  into  the 
tureen. 


154  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

GRAVY    SOUP. 

Wash  and  soak  a  leg  of  beef;  crack  the  bone,  and 
set  it  on  the  fire  with  a  gallon  of  water,  a  large  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  two  large  onions  sliced  and  fried  a  fine 
brown,  (but  not  burnt,)  two  blades  of  mace,  three 
cloves,  twenty  berries  of  alspice,  and  forty  black  pep- 
pers. Stew  till  the  soup  is  as  rich  as  you  choose;  then 
take  out  the  meat.  Next  day  take  off  the  cake  of  fat; 
which  will  serve  for  basting,  or  for  common  pie-crust. 
Have  ready  such  vegetables  as  you  choose  to  serve.  Cut 
carrots,  turnips,  and  celery,  small,  and  simmer  till  tender. 


OX-RUMP    SOUP. 

Two  or  three  rumps  of  beef  will  make  it  stronger 
than  a  much  larger  quantity  of  meat  without  these, 
and  form  a  very  nourishing  soup.  Make  it  like  gravjr 
coup,  and  give  it  what  flavor  or  thickness  you  like. 


PUDDINGS. 


OBSERVATIONS   ON    MAKING    PUDDINGS    AND   PANCAKES. 

The  outside  of  a  hoiled  pudding  often  tastes  disa- 
greeably; which  arises  from  the  cloth  not  being  nicely 
washed,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place.  It  should  be  dipped 
in  boiling  water,  squeezed  dry,  and  floured  when  to  be 
used. 

If  bread,  it  should  be  tied  loose;  if  batter,  tight  over. 

The  water  should  boil  quick  when  the  pudding  is  put 
in;  and  it  should  be  moved  about  for  a  minute,  lest  the 
ingredients  should  not  mix. 

Batter  pudding  should  be  strained  through  a  coarse 
«eive,  when  all  is  mixed.     In  others,  the  eggs  separately. 

The  pans  and  basins  must  be  always  buttered. 

A  pan  of  cold  w^atcr  should  be  ready,  and  the  pud- 
ding dipped  in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot,  and 
then  it  will  not  adhere  to  the  cloth. 

Very  good  pudding  may  be  made  without  eggs,  but 
they  must  have  as  little  milk  as  will  mix,  and  must  boil 
three  or  four  hours.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  fresh  small 
beer,  or  one  of  yeast  will  answer  instead  of  eggs. 


COOKERY.  155 

ALMOND    PUDDING. 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  sweet  and  a  few  bitter  almonds 
with  a  spoonful  of  water;  then  mix  four  ounces  of  but- 
ter, four  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  warm  with 
butter,  one  of  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Butter  some  cups,  half  fill,  and  bake  the  pud- 
ding.    Serve  with  butter,  wine,  and  sugar. 


BAKED   ALMOND   PUDDING. 

Beat  fine  four  ounces  of  almonds,  four  or  five  bitter 
ditto,  with  a  little  wine,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  peel  of  two 
lemons  grated,  six  ounces  of  butter,  near  a  quart  of 
cream,  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  When  well  mixed, 
bake  it  half  an  hour,  with  paste  round  the  dish. 


BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Slice  bread,  spread  with  butter,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish 
with  currants  between  each  layer;  and  sliced  citron, 
orange,  or  lemon;  if  to  be  very  nice.  Pour  over  an 
unboiled  custard  of  milk,  and  two  or  three  eggs,  two 
hours  at  least,  before  it  is  to  be  baked. 


ORANGE   PUDDING. 

Grate  the  rind  of  an  orange;  put  to  it  six  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  six  or  eight  ounces  of  lump-sugar  pounded: 
beat  them  all  in  a  mortar,  and  add  as  you  do  it,  the 
whole  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained;  scrape  a 
raw  apple,  and  mix  with  the  rest;  put  a  paste  at  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish,  and  over  the  orange  mix- 
ture put  cross  bars  of  paste.  It  will  bake  in  half  an 
hour. 


AN  EXCELLENT  LEMON  PUDDING. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs;  add  four  ounces  of  white 
sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  being  rubbed  with  some 
lumps  of  it  to  take  the  essence:  then  peel,  and  beat  it 
in  a  mortar  with  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and  mix  all 
with  four  or  five  ounces  of  butter  warmed.  Put  a  crust 
into  a  shallow  dish,  nick  the  edges,  and  put  the  above 
into  it.     When  served  turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  dish. 


156  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

BAKED    APPLE    PUDDING. 

Pare  and  quarter  four  large  apples;  boil  them  tender 
with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  in  so  little  water  that,  when 
done,  none  may  remain;  heat  them  quite  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar; add  the  crumb  of  a  smoll  roll,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
melted;  the  yolks  of  five  and  whites  of  three  eggs, 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste:  beat  all  to- 
gether, and  lay  it  in  a  dish  with  paste. 


A    DUTCH    RICE    PUDDING. 

Soak  four  ounces  of  rice  in  warm  water  half  an  hour; 
drain  the  latter  from  it,  and  throw  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and 
sinmier  till  tender.  When  cold,  add  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  two  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a  tea-cupful  of 
cream;  and  put  into  it  three  ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter 
of  a  nutmeg,  and  a  good  piece  of  lemon-peel. 

Put  a  light  puff  paste  into  the  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


LITTLE    BREAD    PUDDING. 


Steep  the  crumbs  of  bread,  in  about  a  pint  of  warm 
milk;  when  soaked,  beat  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  and 
mix  with  the  bread,  two  ounces  of  butter  warmed,  sugar, 
orange-flower  water,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  a  tea-cupful  of  cream.  Beat  all  well,  and 
bake  in  a  tea-cup  buttered.  If  currants  are  chosen,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  is  sufficient;  if  not,  they  are  good 
without,  or  you  may  put  in  orange  or  lemon-candy. 
Serve  with  pudding-sauce. 


BATTER    PUDDING. 


Rub  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour  extremely  smooth 
by  degrees  into  a  pint  of  milk:  simmer  till  it  thickens, 
stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  set  it  to  cool;  then  add  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs;  flour  a  cloth  that  has  been  wet,  or 
butter  a  basin,  and  put  the  batter  into  it;  tie  it  tight, 
and  plunge  it  into  boiling  water,  the  bottom  upwards. 
Boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve  with  plain  butter. 


COOKERY.  157 

If  approved,  a  little  ginger,  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel, 
may  be  added.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

A    RICH    RICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  water,  with  a  little  bit  of 
salt,  till  quite  tender,  drain  it  dry;  mix  it  with  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  melted  in  the 
latter,  four  ounces  of  beef-suet  or  marrow,  or  veal-suet 
taken  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  finely  shred,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  currants,  two  spoonfuls  of  brand}',  one  of 
peach-water,  nutmeg,  and  grated  lemon-peel.  When 
well  mixed,  put  a  paste  round  the  edge  and  fill  the  dish. 
Slices  of  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron  if  approved, 
may  be  put  in.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


BAKED   RICE    PUDDING. 

Swell  rice  as  above;  then  add  some  more  milk,  an 
egg,  sugar,  alspice,  and  lemon  peel.  Bake  in  a  deep 
dish. 


AN    EXCELLENT    POTATO   PUDDING. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  boiled  potatoes,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  the  yolks  and  white  of  two  eggs,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cream,  one  spoonful  of  white  wine,  a  little 
salt,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon;  beat  all  to  froth; 
and  sugar  to  taste. 


BEEF   STEAK   PUDDING, 

Prepare  some  fine  steaks;  roll  them  in  fat.  Lay  a 
paste  of  suet  in  a  basin,  and  put  in  the  rollers  of  steaks: 
cover  the  basin  with  a  paste,  and  pinch  the  edges  to 
keep  the  gravy  in.  Cover  with  a  cloth  tied  close:  and 
let  the  pudding  boil  slowly,  but  for  a  length  of  time. 


CUSTARD   PUDDING. 

Mix  by  degrees  a  pint  of  good  milk  with  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  some  orange- 
flower  water,  and  a  little  pounded  cinnamon.  Butter  a 
basin  that  will  exactly  hold  it,  pour  the  batter  in,  and 

O 


158  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

tie  a  floured  cloth  over.  Put  in  boiling  water  over  the 
fire,  and  turn  it  about  a  few  minutes  to  prevent  the  egg 
going  to  one  side.  Half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  to 
boil  it. 

Put  currant  jelly  on  it,  and  serve  with  sweet-sauce. 


A    QUICK    MADE    PUDDING. 

Take  flour  and  suet  half  a  pound  of  each,  four  eggs, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  mace  and  nut- 
meg, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  ditto  of  currants: 
mix  well,  and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


FINE  PANCAKES  WITHOUT  BUTTER  OR  LARD. 

Beat  six  fresh  eggs,  well;  mix,  when  strained,  with 
a  pint  of  cream,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  glass  of  wine, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make 
it  almost  as  thick  as  ordinary  pancake-batter.  Heat 
the  frying-pan  tolerably  hot,  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth, 
then  pour  in  the  batter  to  make  thin  pancakes. 


PANCAKES  OF  RICE. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  to  a  jelly,  in  a  small  quantity 
of  water;  whtn  cold,  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  cream,  eight 
eggs,  a  bit  of  salt,  and  nutmeg;  stir  in  eight  ounces  of 
butter  just  warmed,  and  add  as  much  flour  as  will  make 
the  batter  thick  enough.  Fry  in  as  little  lard  or 
dripping  as  possible. 


FRITTERS. 

Make  them  of  any  of  the  batters  directed  for  pan- 
cakes, by  dropping  a  small  quantity  into  the  pan;  or 
make  the  plainer  sort,  and  put  pared  apple,  sliced  and 
cored,  into  the  batter,  and  fry  some  of  it  with  each  slice. 
Currants  or  sliced  lemons  as  thin  as  paper,  make  an 
agreeable  change. 


POTATO  FRITTERS. 

Boil  two  large  potatoes,  scrape  them  fine;  beat  four 
yolks  and  three  whites  of  eggs,  and  add  to  the  above  one 
large  spoonful  of  cream,  another  of  sweet  wine,  a 


COOKERY.  159 

squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg.     Beat  this  bat- 
ter half  an  hour  at  least.     It  will  be  extremely  light. 

Put  a  good  quantity  of  fine  lard  in  a  stew-pan,  and 
drop  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  it.  Fry 
them;  and  serve  as  a  sauce,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  peach-leaf  or 
almond-water,  and  some  white  sugar,  warmed  together. 


PASTRY. 


RICH  PUFF  PASTE. 

Puffs  may  be  made  of  any  sort  of  fruit,  but  it  should 
be  prepared  first  with  sugar. 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  with  as  much  fine 
flour  as  you  judge  necessary;  mix  a  little  of  the  former 
with  the  latter,  and  wet  it  with  as  little  water  as  will 
make  it  into  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out,  and  put  all  the 
butter  over  it  in  slices,  turn  in  the  ends,  and  roll  it  thin: 
do  this  twice,  and  touch  it  no  more  than  can  be  avoided. 


EGG  MINCE  PIES. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  shred  them  small;  shred  double 
the  quantity  of  suet;  then  put  currants  washed  and 
pickled,  one  pound,  or  more  if  the  eggs  were  large;  the 
peel  of  one  lemon  shred  very  fine,  and  the  juice,  six 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  sugar,  a 
very  little  salt;  orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  candied. 
Make  a  light  paste  for  them. 


PRUNE    TART. 

Give  prunes  a  scald,  take  out  the  stones,  and  break 
them;  put  the  kernels  into  a  little  cranberry-juice,  with 
the  prunes  and  sugar,  simmer:  and  when  cold,  make  fi 
tart  of  the  sweetmeat. 


EXCELLENT    LIGHT    PUFF. 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel, 
some  nutmeg,  half  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a  little  loaf 
«ugar,  and  one  egg;  then  fry  it  enough,  but  not  brown; 
beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks; 


160  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

put  a  quantity  of  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  quito 
hot,  drop  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  at  a  time:  turn 
them  as  they  brown.  Serve  them  immediately  with 
sweet  sauce. 


SOLID    SYLLABUB. 

To  a  quart  of  rich  cream  put  a  quart  of  white  wine, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  with  the  rind  of  one  grated, 
and  sweeten  it.  Whip  it  up  well  and  take  off  the  froth 
as  it  rises.  Put  it  upon  a  hair  sieve,  and  let  it  stand  in 
a  cool  place  till  the  next  day.  Then  half  fill  the 
glasses  with  the  scum,  and  heap  up  the  froth  as  high  as 
possible.  The  bottom  will  look  clear  and  it  will  keep 
several  davs. 


CURRANT    JELLY. 

Take  the  juice  of  red  currants,  1  lb.  sugar.  Boil 
them  down. 

Another  methocL- — Take  the  juice  of  red  currants,  add 
white  sugar,  equal  quantities. 

Stir  it  gently  and  smoothly  for  three  hours,  put  it  into 
glasses,  and  in  three  days  it  will  concrete  into  a  firm 
jelly. 


DAIRY. 


TO   PROCURE   PROFITABLE    COVvS. 

Suppose  a  farmer  to  resolve  that  he  would  keep  no 
cow  that  did  not  hold  out  a  good  milker  six  months  in 
the  year — and  that  did  not  give  sixteen  quarts  of  milk 
per  day  for  two  months  after  calving,  and  twelve  quarts 
per  day  the  next  three  months,  and  two  quarts  per 
day  the  month  following. — Such  a  cow  would  yield  per 
annum  2100  quarts  of  milk. 

Is  it  not  practicable  to  have  throughout  the  country, 
a  common  dairy  stock  of  animals  as  good  as  the  last 
described? 

The  question  is  submitted  to  farmers  for  consideration. 
The  probability  is  that  in  taking  some  pains  to  get  stock 
as  good,  they  would  get  even  better. 


COOKERY.  161 

If  the  various  modes  of  obtaining  this  object  were 
resorted  to  at  once,  and  with  zeal,  throughout  the 
country,  there  would  be  a  prodigious  improvement  in  a 
very  short  time.  No  young  animal  of  promising  ap- 
pearance would  go  to  the  butcher.  More  care  would 
be  taken  of  young  stock.  More  young  stock  would  be 
retained  to  insure  a  better  selection  of  milch  cows. — 
Farmers  would  think  more  of  the  advantages  of  em- 
ploying bulls  of  the  improved  breeds.  Heifers  should 
be  milked  with  great  care,  and  very  thoroughly,  to  get 
them  in  the  habit  of  holding  out  as  long  milkers.  If 
they  once  dry  early,  no  care  and  keeping  afterwards 
will  correct  this  fault.  Heifers  with  the  first  calf 
should  be  fed  well  with  some  additional  care  the  last 
three  months  they  are  in  milk,  to  make  them  hold  out. 

The  profit  of  a  milch  cow  is  not  generally  under- 
stood. Milk  is  not  only  the  most  nutritious  but  the 
cheapest  article  of  food.  The  food  necessary  for  a  cow 
in  full  milk,  does  not  exceed  in  price,  one  third  of  what 
is  necessary  in  feeding  for  the  Imtcher. 


TO    SHORTEN    THE    TIME    AND    DIMINISH    THE  LABOR    OF 
MAKING    BUTTER. 

Tlie  component  parts  of  milk  are  oil,  curd  and  whey. 
The  oily  parts  constitute  tlie  cream,  and  the  curd  makes 
the  cheese.  The  oily  parts  being  specifically  lighter 
than  the  other  parts  of  the  substance,  ascends  to  the 
surface  in  the  form  of  cream. 

In  winter,  four  or  five  days,  according  to  the  common 
practice,  are  necessary  to  produce  all  the  cream  of  a 
pan  of  milk.  Such  cream  from  this  tedious  process  not 
unfrequently  acquires  a  bitter  taste,  which  is  communi- 
cated to  the  butter.  And  the  churning  of  butter  from 
such  cream  is  moreover  an  operation  of  four  or  five 
hours,  and  sometimes  longer,  unless  hot  water  be  poured 
into  the  cream,  which  invariably  injures  the  butter  bj 
rendering  it  white  and  insipid. 

To  shorten  the  time  and  to  diminish  the  labor  of  ma- 
king butter,  and  at  the  same  time  to  improve  its  quality, 
there  has  been  recently  established  in  the  Dairy  House 

o2 


162  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

of  IMr.  R.  Smith's  Farm,  called  Orange,  an  aparatus 
upon  the  simplest  principles  imaginable.  During  the 
coldest  weather  in  winter,  in  the  course  of  less  than 
twenty-four  hours  after  the  milk  has  been  taken  from 
the  cows,  sweet  cream  is  produced,  greater  in  quantity 
and  richer  in  quality,  than  can  be  obtained  in  the  ordi- 
nary management  in  tive  days.  So  rich,  indeed,  is  the 
cream,  that  it  is  churned  with  as  much  facility  as  is  the 
rich  cream  of  the  Alderney  cows,  in  the  summer  sea- 
son. The  operation  of  churning  never  exceeds  twen- 
ty-five minutes.  The  butter  from  such  cream  has  never 
failed  to  be  of  a  fine  flavor  and  of  fine  color;  and  in 
the  nature  of  things  it  never  can  fail  to  be  so,  unless 
the  dairy  woman  should  be  utterly  ignorant  of  the  art 
of  making  sweet  butter.  The  process  is  not  a  new  in- 
vention. According  to  the  principles  of  the  system 
pursued  at  Orange,  is  made  the  sweet  butter  which,  in 
England,  is  the  most  admired.  The  part  of  the  course 
of  proceeding,  not  in  common  use,  is  this:  The  pans, 
with  the  milk  just  taken  from  the  cows,  remain  until  a 
thin  skim  of  cream  is  produced.  They  are  then  placed 
in  hot  water,  and  in  about  30  minutes  thereafter,  all 
the  cream,  contained  in  the  milk,  is  found  on  the  sur- 
face. The  cream  thus  obtained  is  managed  as  other 
rich  cream  is  in  all  well  conducted  dairies. 

The  skimmed  milk,  consisting  of  curd  and  whey, 
without  any  of  the  buttery  parts,  has  a  peculiar  sweet- 
ness, is  extremely  pleasant  to  the  taste,  and  is  deemed 
a  very  wholesome  beverage. 


FABRICATION  OF  TOT  VTO  CHEESE. 

In  the  Bulletin  of  the  Societe  d'Encouragement,  for 
the  month  of  September,  1829,  is  an  article  on  the 
fabrication  of  cheese  from  potatoes,  of  which  the  fol- 
lowing is  an  extract,  from  the  correspondence  of  M. 
Fahrenburg. 

There  is  made,  in  Tliuringe  and  in  a  part  of  Saxony, 
cheese  from  potatoes,  which  is  very  much  esteemed; 
this  is  the  mode  of  preparing  it. 


COOKEHY.  153 

After  having  selected  the  best  kind  of  potatoes,  thej 
are  boiled;  when  cooled,  they  are  pealed  and  reduced 
to  a  pulp,  either  by  a  grater,  or  in  a  mortar:  to  five 
pounds  of  the  pulp,  which  should  be  equally  fine  and 
homogeneous,  is  added  a  pound  of  sour  milk  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  salt;  the  whole  is  well  kneaded, 
then  covered  up  and  left  to  repose  for  three  or  four  days, 
according  to  the  season  of  the  j'ear:  at  the  end  of  that 
time,  the  mixture  is  again  kneaded,  and  then  put  into 
8mall  baskets,  to  divest  it  of  the  superfluous  humidity. 
Afterward  it  is  placed  in  the  shade  to  dry  and  then  it  is 
packed  in  layers  in  large  jars,  or  casks,  where  it  is  left 
tor  fifteen  days.  The  older  this  chee=e  grows,  the 
better  it  is. 

There  are  three  kinds  made:  the  first,  which  is  the 
most  common,  is  prepared  in  the  proportions  above 
named;  the  second,  with  four  parts  of  potatoes  and  two 
of  curd;  the  third  with  two  pounds  of  potatoes  and  four 
pounds  of  milk. 

The  potato  cheese  has  this  advantage  over  common 
cheese,  it  never  engenders  maggots,  and  it  keeps  per- 
fectly well  for  several  years,  provided  it  is  placed  in  a 
dry  situation  and  in  close  vessels. 

I  have  repeated  this  experiment  with  the  proportions 
of  the  second  quality.  This  was  the  method  pursued. 
The  potatoes  were  boiled,  pealed,  and  crushed  with  the 
hands.  If  the  fabrication  was  carried  on  extensively, 
the  machine  used  for  reducing  the  potatoes  in  distille- 
ries, could  be  used.  The  milk  was  heated,  and  curdled 
with  vinegar,  as  no  runnet  was  at  command.  After 
this  operation,  the  milk  was  mixed  with  the  potatoes; 
the  mass  was  salted,  then  it  was  passed  through  a  hair 
sieve,  to  pulverise  it  thoroughly  and  make  the  mixture 
perfect;  this  mass,  covered  with  salt,  was  left  for  ten  or 
twelve  days  in  an  earthen  pan;  at  this  period  it  was 
distributed,  for  want  of  baskets,  on  sieves,  where  it 
drained  and  became  moulded  into  regular  forms.  The 
sieves  were  lined  with  a  linen  cloth  before  the  mixture 
was  put  into  them.  Fifteen  days  after  this  draining 
operation,  which  had  been  aided  a  little  by  pressure, 
the  cheeses  were  placed,  enveloped  in  their  cloths,  be- 


164  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

tween  osier  hurdles  and  put  into  the  cellar.  At  this 
time  the  gaseous  fermentation  is  well  developed,  the 
cheeses  are  yet  very  soft,  and  there  is  formed  on  the 
surface  a  skin  of  mould.  The  cheese  taste  is  very 
sensible,  and  not  disagreeable,  and  I  think  this  kind  of 
cheese  can  be  advantageously  made  by  the  farmers. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    MAKING    GOOD    BUTTER. 

Butter  forms  an  important  item  in  the  produce  of  the 
farm,  as  well  as  the  necessaries  for  the  table.  It  is  of 
the  utmost  importance  to  the  farmer  who  resides  near  a 
large  town,  to  establish  his  reputation  for  bringing  to 
market  fine  butter.  This  is  not  only  profitable  of  it- 
self, but  gives  a  comparative  recommendation  to  every 
thing  he  has  to  dispose  of.  IIow  often  do  we  hear  the 
expression  in  families,  "that  they  bought  such  an  ar- 
ticle of  Mr.  C.  who  makes  the  best  butter  that  is  brought 
into  our  market.''  When  a  man  has  established  his 
reputation  for  an  article,  he  not  only  finds  a  readier 
sale  for  it,  but  gets  a  greater  price.  This  is  particular- 
ly the  case  v*^ith  butter.  Who  among  us  does  not 
prefer  paying  two  or  three  cents  a  pound  for  a  fine, 
fresh,  well  flavored  article,  over  the  rank,  marbled, 
greasy-looking  stuff  which  is  seen  daily  in  our  markets? 
Now  the  milk  for  the  one  was  as  good  as  for  the  other 
— the  only  difference  being  in  the  manner  of  making. 
Having  been  acquainted  with  the  course  pursued 
by  some  eminent  dairymen  and  women  who  preserve 
their  butter  through  the  season  fine  and  fresh,  we  give 
the  following  directions: — 

1st.  Let  your  dairy-room  be  kept  cool,  and  not  only 
the  room,  but  every  utensil  used  in  it,  be  kept  from  any 
rancid,  sour,  or  unpleasant  smell. 

2d.  Let  the  milk  with  the  cream  be  put  in  the  churn 
as  soon  as  sour,  before  any  putrid  fermentation  takes 
place. 

Butter  is  found  to  be  of  better  flavor  when  churned 
with  the  milk,  than  when  the  cream  is  churned  sepa- 
rately. Let  the  churning  be  continued  until  the  butter 
i»  well  collected,  after  which  it  should  be  taken  out 


COOKERY.  165 

with  a  ladle  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden;  it  should 
then  be  worked  over  with  the  ladle  until  perfectlj 
freed  from  the  butter-milk.  In  no  part  of  the  process 
should  the  butter  be  touched  with  the  hands,  but  be 
handled  entirely  with  the  ladle  and  paddles.  In  hot 
wxather  it  is  sometimes  worked  with  paddles  in  clear 
cold  water,  which  assists  in  extracting  the  buttermilk. 
After  the  butter  has  been  worked  a  sufficient  time  to 
give  it,  as  the  dealers  say,  a  "good  grain,"  salt  it  mode- 
rately. If  to  each  pint  of  salt  one  ounce  of  fine  sugar 
is  added,  it  improves  the  fiavor.  If  the  butter  is  de- 
signed to  be  taken  soon  to  market,  let  it  be  worked  in 
small  cakes  of  one  pound  each,  handsomely  marked  or 
stamped,  and  put  by  in  a  cool  place,  and  taken  to  mar- 
ket in  the  morning.  But  if  it  is  designed  to  be  kept 
through  the  season,  let  it  be  packed  in  a  firkin  and  set 
by  in  a  cool  place  for  a  few  days,  when  the  butter  will 
be  found  to  have  shrunk  from  the  sides  of  the  firkin:  the 
head  should  be  put  in,  and  through  a  hole  bored  in  it, 
the  cavity  should  be  filled  with  strong  brine,  the  hole 
stopped,  and  tiie  firkin  reversed — by  which  the  butter 
will  cleave  from  the  head  which  was  at  tiie  bottom, 
and  become  perfectly  surrounded  with  a  streak  of  brine; 
in  which  situation  it  may  be  kept  sweet  through  the 
season. 


TO    PREVENT    MILK    BECOMING    SOUK. 

To  prevent  milk  from  becoming  sour  and  curdling  as 
it  is  apt  to  do  in  the  heat  of  summer,  the  milk-men  of 
Paris  add  a  small  quantity  of  sub-carbonate  of  potash  or 
soda,  which  saturating  tiie  acid  as  it  forms,  prevents 
the  coagulating  or  separating  of  curds,  and  some  of  them 
practice  this  with  so  much  success  as  to  gain  the  repu- 
tation of  selling  milk  that  never  sours.  Often  when  the 
coagulation  has  taken  place,  they  restore  the  fluidity 
by  a  greater  or  less  addition  of  the  fixed  alkalies.  The 
acetate  which  is  then  formed  has  no  injurious  eflfects, 
and  besides,  milk  contains  naturally  a  small  quantity  of 
acetate,  but  not  an  atom  of  really  a  carbonated  alkali. 


INDEX. 


COOKERY. 


133 


134 


Beef, 

Fricandeau  of,    - 
To  stew  a  rump  of, 

"        Brisket, 
To  press,        .... 
Hunter's  beef,  to  make. 
An  excellent  mode  of  dressing, 
To  collar,   .... 
Steaks  to  make,    - 
Collops,      .... 
Cake  of,  .... 

Palates,       .... 
To  pot  beef,  -        .        -        . 
Inside  of  a  sirloin  to  dresa, 
Fricasse  of  cold  roast  beef, 
Beef  olives. 
To  mince  beef, 
To  hash  beef, 
Ala-vingrette, 
Round  of  beef,    - 
Rolled  beef,    .... 
Tongue  and  udder  to  roast, 

"         To  stew,  - 

"        An  excellent  way  to  prepare 
for  eating  cold,   • 

Heart, 

Ox  cheek  stewed,     -        -        -  140 

Marow  bones, 

Tripe, 141 


Currant  jelly, 

Cooking,  to  regulate  the  time  for. 

Lamb, 

Leg  of,  .... 

Fore  quarter 

Breast,  .... 

Steaks, 

Neck,  .... 


ICO 
130 


147 


148 


Little  bread  pudding. 

Dutch  rice  do.  - 

Batter  do.  - 

A  rich  rice  do. 

Baked  rice  do.  - 

An  excellent  i>otato  do. 

Beef  steak  do.  - 

Custard  do. 

Fine  pancakes,  without  butter  or 

lard, 158 

Fine  pancakes  of  rice,            -  -    — 

Fritters, — 

Do.     of  potatoes,      -        -  -    — 

Pork,            -                       -  -        141 

To  roast  a  leg  of,       -  -  

To  boil,      do.      -  -  -        

Loin  and  neck,          -            -  142 

Shoulder  and  breast,      -  -        

Spare-rib,        -           -            -  — 

Blade-bone,  -  -  -        

Steaks,  -  -  -  

Sausages,  -  -  -        

An  excellent  sausage  to  eat  cold,       143 

Head  cheese,    -            •            -  — 

Pigs-feet  jelly,      -            -  -        144 

Pastry,  ^-c.         ...  159 

Rich  puff  paste,  -           -  -        — 

Egg  mince  pies,         -           -  — 

Prune  tart,           •           -  -        — 

Excellent  light  puff,    -        -  — 


Mistress  of  a  family,  directions  to,  121 
Meats  to  choose  and  cook  in  various 

ways,        ....     124  to  128 

Mutton, 144 

Cutting  and  dressing,  -        •     

Neck  of, 

Haunch  of,  to  dross,     -        -        •  145 

Saddle  of,  to  roast, 

Breast, 146 

Loin,       .... 

Collops,        .... 

Steaks,      .        .        .        - 

Sausage, 147 

An  excellent  hotch-potch,        -       

Puddings  and  pancakes,     -           -  154 

Almond  pudding,       -            -  155 

Bread  and  butter  pudding,         -      

Orange  do,  

Lemon  do.   •  

Baked  apple            do-  156 


Syllabub, 

Soups,  ^c. 
Veal  broth. 
White  soup,  - 
Pea  soup,    - 
Ox-rump  soup, 

Veal,  to  keep. 
Leg  of,    -        • 
Knuckle,     - 
Shoulder, 
Neck, 
"    A-IaBraise, 
Breast  of,    - 
To  pot  with  ham, 
Collops, 
Cake,     - 
Head,  to  boil, 
"    Fricasee, 
Mock  turtle. 


DAIRY, 

To  pro'nire  profitable  cows, 

To  shorten  the  time  and  diminish 

the  Ia'>or  of  making  butter. 
To  make  Potato  cheese,  equal  to 

milk  ctieoso,  .  .  .  - 
Directions  for  makins  cood  butter. 
To  prevent  milk  I  ecuming  sour. 


160 
152 
153 


154 
148 
149 

150 

151 

152 
160 

161 

162 
164 
165 


