f. 


H 


Boston    Public    Library 

Do  not  write  in  this  book  or  mark  it  with  pen  or 
pencil.  Penalties  for  so  doing  are  imposed  by  the 
Revised  Laws  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts. 


This  book   tva!  hsued  to   thf  borrou^er    »n  the  date 
last    stamped    below. 


Ml  13 


mr^^ 


^Md  17 


OHO     1 H 


m 


on 


m  28  1952 


B.   P.  L.  FORM  MO.    60*:  i0.2«.»:  t«OM. 


J 


THE  FARM 
COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 


j!^^ 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK   •    BOSTON   •     CHICAGO   •    DALLAS 
ATLANTA   •    SAN   FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN  &  CO..  Limited 

LONDON   •    BOMBAY   •    CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE  MACMILLAN  CO.  OF  CANADA.  Lm 

TORONTO 


THE   FARM 
COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 


BY 

NELL  B.  NICHOLS,  M.S. 


y  }  }    i     '}■*       )>>i>3'i     jj         j>      J 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 
1923 

AU  rights  reserved 


PEINTED  IN   THE  UNITED   STATES   OF  AMERICA 


COPTMGHT,    1923, 
By  the  MACMILLAN  COMPANY. 


Set  up  and  electrotyped.     Published  August,  1923, 

_'  c    :       5      c       .  e '  '       <     c  t  c         ,  c    /    '       t  c  *      c  ' 


Press  of 

J.  J.  Little  &  Ives  Company 

New  York.  U.  S.  A. 


MY  MOTHEE  AND  OTHER  PIONEER  FARM  WOMEN 
WHOSE  CULINARY  SKILL  AND  PRACTICE  OF 
THRIFT  KEPT  THE  ART  OF  HOMEMAKING  ALIVE 
WHEN   AMERICAN   FRONTIERS   WERE   BEING  WON 


PREFACE 

Practically  all  the  recipe  and  homemaking  books  on  the  market 
during  the  last  decade  have  been  written  for  city  women.  "The 
Farm  Cook  and  Rule  Book"  has  been  prepared  especially  for 
rural  homemakers,  to  help  them  use  intelligently  the  foods  avail- 
able in  their  kitchens  and  to  m^et  with  prudence  the  problems 
confronted  in  their  business  of  housekeeping. 

When  America  was  younger,  a  large  proportion  of  the  popu- 
lation lived  on  farms.  Then  every  mother  taught  her  daughters 
how  to  cure  the  meat  butchered,  to  manufacture  soaps  from 
left-over  fats  and  cracklings,  to  utilize  surplus  fruits  in  making 
vinegar,  to  tan  hides,  to  make  hominy  and  to  put  away  foods 
during  the  harvest  for  use  in  the  winter. 

City  growth  has  been  rapid.  With  it  changes  have  come. 
Commercial  bakeries  and  laundries,  restaurants,  cafeterias,  cor- 
ner grocery  stores  and  delicatessens  have  taken  duties  from  city 
homes  that  remain  in  rural  communities.  The  proximity  of 
hospitals  has  even  made  the  home  nurse's  role  less  important; 
small  apartments  require  different  methods  of  housekeeping  than 
country  houses;  the  nearness  of  beauty  shops  has  taken  the  re- 
sponsibility of  caring  for  the  hair  and  skin  from  many  urban 
women. 

In  rural  districts,  even  in  this  day  and  age,  homemakers  need 
to  know  how  to  prepare  foods  to  cater  to  the  appetite  of  the 
sick.  A  knowledge  of  old-fashioned  beauty  secrets,  those  rules 
which  made  pink-and-white  complexions  long  ago,  is  sought  by 
farm  girls.  Baking  day  is  not  a  tradition.  Saturday's  work  does 
not  end  until  the  cupboards  are  supplied  with  delectable  pies, 
crisply  browned  loaves  of  bread,  jars  of  sugary  cookies  and 
prettily  iced  cakes — all  of  the  homemade  variet}^  More  than 
once  a  week  the  fragrance  of  spices  and  browning  batters  is  in 
the  air. 

Many  of  the  older  cooks  and  housekeepers  do   not   follow 

vii 


viii  PEEFACE 

definite  rules  in  working.  Years  of  experience  have  trained 
their  eyes  to  judge  accurately  the  amounts  of  ingredients  being 
used  in  making  a  cake,  cookies,  bread  or  other  food  combina- 
tions. These  women  speak  of  handfuls  of  sugar,  a  dash  of 
spice  and  pinches  of  soda,  not  realizing  that  the  young  home- 
maker  may  add  too  much  sugar  because  her  hand  is  large  or  use 
too  little  soda  and  an  overdose  of  spice.  Learning  to  cook  and 
to  keep  house  by  experience  may  end  happily,  but  it  brings  many 
disappointments.  In  addition  to  this,  there  is  a  tremendous 
waste  of  fuelj  food,  energy  and  ambition  which  must  be  reckoned 
with  in  these  days  of  high  living  costs. 

In  an  effort  to  preserve  the  old-time  recipes  and  to  present 
them  with  the  newer  discoveries  which  make  cooking  and  home- 
making  easier  and  more  satisfactory,  this  book  has  been  written. 
The  old  recipes  have  been  modernized,  that  is,  made  over  to 
fit  present  conditions  in  small  town  and  farm  homes,  and  both 
the  old  and  the  new  have  been  standardized  so  that  accurate 
measurements  will  assure  success.  It  is  my  hope  that  these 
recipes  and  labor-saving  suggestions  will  be  helpful  to  thousands 
of  homemakers  as  they  strive  to  maintain  the  thrifty,  substan- 
tial type  of  homes  upon  which  the  American  nation  has  been 
built. 

Nell  B.  Nichols. 


/ 


CONTENTS 


PART  I 

CHAPTER  PAOB 

1  IMea^ubing    Foods 3 

2  Bevebages 6 

3  Yeast  Breads 12 

4  Quick  Breads 24 

5  Griddle  Cakes  and  Waffles 30 

6  Toast 33 

7  Cakes 35 

8  Cookies  and  Doughnuts 44 

9  Cereals 50 

10  Candies  and  Confections 55 

11  Canning 65 

12  Pickles,  Catchups  and  Relishes 76 

13  Ffeurr  Preserves,  Jams  and  Butters 84 

14  Jelly  Making 88 

15  Puddings  and  Desserts 94 

16  Custards 103 

17  Frozen  Desserts 106 

18  Gelatin  Dishes 110 

19  Eggs  and  Cheese 114 

20  Fillings  and  Icings 120 

21  Fruits 125 

22  Meats,  Poultry  and  Fish 128 

23  Wild  Game 140 

24  Stuffings 144 

25  Pastry 146 

26  Salads 153 

27  Sandwiches 162 

28  Sauces 167 

ix 


z 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAGB 

29  Soups,  Chowders  and  Dumplings 174 

30  Vegetables 181 

31  Vlnegabs 193 

32  Cooking  in  Labge  Quantities 197 

33  Recipes  fob  Little  Gebls 201 

34  QxncK  Meals 206 

35  BUTCHEEINQ 210 

PART  II 

1  Household  Recipes 221 

2  Laundebing  Recipes 240 

3  Laboe-Saving  Devices 246 

4  Geandmotheb's  Beauty  Secbets 268 

5  Cooking  fob  the  Sick 276 

Index 285 


PART  I 


THE  FARM 
COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 


CHAPTER  1 
MEASURING  FOODS 

Best  results  are  obtained  from  the  recipes  in  this  book  by 
using  level  measurements.  A  spoonful  of  any  dry  ingredient  is 
measured  by  leveling  the  surface  with  the  straight  edge  of  a 
knife. 

Half  a  spoonful  is  a  spoonful  divided  lengthwise  with  the 
point  of  a  knife.  One-fourth  of  a  spoonful  is  a  half-spoonful 
divided  crosswise  a  little  nearer  the  handle  end  of  the  bowl. 
One-eighth  of  a  spoonful  is  a  fourth-spoonful  divided  lengthwise. 
Measuring  spoons,  which  consist  of  spoons  holding  one,  one- 
half,  one-fourth  and  one-eighth  spoonfuls  fastened  together  on 
a  ring,  do  away  with  the  necessity  of  dividing  the  spoonful. 

A  cupful  is  a  cup  level  full.  To  take  this  measurement  pile 
the  dry  ingredient  lightly  in  the  cup  with  a  spoon  and  then 
level  it  off  with  the  straight  edge  of  a  knife. 

In  measuring  dry  food  materials,  such  as  flour,  baking  powder 
and  soda,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  press  or  pack  them  down. 
Flour  is  sifted  once  before  ■  being  measured.  Fats,  such  as 
butter  or  lard,  are  packed  tightly  before  being  leveled.  To 
measure  less  than  a  cupful,  time  is  saved  by  using  a  tablespoon 
instead  of  a  cup.  A  cupful  or  a  spoonful  of  liquid  is  all  that 
the  cup  or  spoon  will  hold. 

Table  of  Equivalents 

3  teaspoonfuls — 1  tablespoonful         2  cupfuls — 1  pint 
16  table8poonful8 — 1  cupful  2  pints — 1  quart 

3 


4  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Oven  Temperatures 

Slow  Oven — ^250  to  365  degrees  Fahrenheit 
Moderate  Oven — 365  to  410  degrees  F. 
Hot  Oven — 410  to  450  degrees  F. 
Very  Hot  Oven — 450  to  550  degrees  F. 

These  temperatures  are  to  be  used  with  ovens  having  direct 
heat,  such  as  gas  and  kerosene.  If  oven  door  "thermostats/' 
like  those  on  many  wood  and  coal  ranges,  are  registering  the 
heat,  subtract  from  50  to  60  degrees  from  the  temperatures  in 
the  above  table.  The  following  tabulation  of  temperatures  for 
baking  in  the  ordinary  household  range  has  been  made  by  the 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 

Biscuits — 400  to  500  degrees  F. 

Bread— 350  to  425  degrees  F. 

Angel  Food  Cake — 300  to  375  degrees  F. 

Cookies— 350  to  400  degrees  F. 

Cup  Cakes — 300  to  400  degrees  F. 

Gingerbread — 350  to  400  degrees  F. 

Layer  Cake — 300  to  400  de^ees  F. 

Loaf  Cake— 280  to  400  degrees  F. 

Sponge  Cake— 300  to  375  degrees  F. 

Custard— 250  to  350  degrees  F. 

Meat,  roasted — 450  to  550  degrees  F.  for  searing,  then  reduce  to  350 

and  on  to  250  degrees  F. 
Muffins— 375  to  425  degrees  F. 
Pastry,  no  filling — 450  to  400  degrees  F. 
Pies,  uncooked  filling — 500  to  400  degrees  F.,  gradually  reducing  to 

the  lower  temperature. 
Popovers— 450  to  350  degrees  F. 


CHAPTER  2 
BEVERAGES 

The  most  common  beverages  are  water,  milk,  coffee,  tea, 
chocolate,  cocoa  and  the  fruit  juices.  Water,  the  natural  bev- 
erage, forms  a  large  part  of  all  others.  Although  milk  is  a  drink, 
it  also  is  a  food.  It  contains  the  substances  needed  for  the 
growth,  development  and  upkeep  of  the  body  in  better  propor- 
tions than  any  other  food.  For  this  reason  it  should  have  an 
important  place  in  the  diet  of  everyone,  especially  of  the  child. 

Coffee  and  tea  have  a  better  flavor  and  are  more  wholesome 
if  not  allowed  to  stand  on  the  grounds  and  leaves  after  being 
made.  If  they  cannot  be  served  at  once,  they  may  be  poured 
in  a  warm  china,  silver  or  earthenware  pot  or  pitcher. 

Cocoa  and  chocolate  are  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of  water 
until  smooth  and  glossy  before  being  combined  with  milk.  This 
cooks  the  starch  and  therefore  prevents  the  beverage  from  having 
a  raw  taste.  Since  sugar  does  not  dissolve  quickly  in  cold 
liquids,  it  is  advisable  to  boil  it  with  water  to  form  a  syrup, 
which  is  cooled  before  being  added  to  the  fruit  drink. 

Percolated  Coffee 

For  a  rather  strong  beverage,  use  from  l^^  to  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  coffee  ground  medium  fine  to  every  cup  of  water.  The  water 
may  be  hot  or  cold ;  place  it  in  the  bottom  part  of  the  percolator 
and  do  not  pour  it  over  the  grounds.  Let  the  water  percolate 
slowly  for  10  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  reach  the  boiling  point. 

If  a  small  amount  of  coffee  is  being  made  in  a  large  percola- 
tor, set  the  percolator  back  on  the  range  where  there  is  sufficient 
heat  to  make  the  water  bubble  over  the  grounds  without  boiling. 

Boiled  Coffee  witli  Egg 

1  cupful  coffee  2^4  cupfuls  cold  water 

1  egg  or  3  egg  shellB  6  cupfuls  boiling  water 

5 


6      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Mir  coffee,  egg  and  2  cupfuls  of  cold  water  together.  Boil 
3  minutes.  Add  boiling  water  and  allow  to  boil  up  at  once. 
Draw  to  the  back  of  the  range,  add  the  %  cupful  of  cold  water 
and  let  stand  a  minute  to  settle.  Add  the  egg  or  egg  shells  to 
clear  the  decoction. 

Drip  or  Filtered  Caffee 

Va  cupful  finely  ground  coffee  4  cupfuls  boiling  water 

Put  coffee  into  strainer  or  pot.  Gradually  pour  in  the  water, 
a  half  cupful  at  a  time,  keeping  the  pot  covered  between  times. 
The  coffee  may  be  poured  through  the  grounds  a  second  time  if 
desired.  Another  way  to  make  this  coffee  is  to  place  the  grounds 
in  an  unbleached  muslin  bag  and  pour  hot  water  through  this 
steadily,  letting  this  drain  into  a  pitcher  from  which  it  may  be 
served. 

After-dinner  Coffee 

Make  coffee  double  strength  and  serve  it  clear  in  small  cups. 

Steeped  Coffee 

Use  1  tablespoonful  of  medium  fine  ground  coffee  for  every 
cupful  of  water.  Add  1  extra  tablespoonful  of  coffee.  Place 
the  coffee  in  the  pot  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  it.     Steep 

5  minutes  or  longer,  according  to  taste,  over  a  slow  fire.     Settle 
with  a  dash  of  cold  water  and  serve  at  once. 

Iced  Coffee 

Make  a  strong  coffee  infusion,  using  the  recipe  for  Percolated 
or  Boiled  Coffee.  Pour  the  beverage  into  a  pitcher  and  allow  to 
cool.  Serve  iced  with  cream  and  sugar.  A  tablespoonful  of 
whipped  cream  or  vanilla  ice  cream  may  be  added  to  every  glass 
filled  with  iced  coffee. 

Tea 

6  teaspoonfuls  tea  6  cupfuls  water 

Scald  the  earthenware  utensil  or  pot,  put  in  the  tea  leaves 
and  pour  over  them  the  fresh  water  just  brought  to  the  boiling 
point.    Cover  and  steep  3  minutes.    Strain  and  serve  at  once. 


BEVERAGES  7 

Iced  Tea 

Use  one-fourth  more  tea  than  is  used  in  making  hot  tea  and 
prepare  in  the  same  way,  only  steep  o  minutes  instead  of  3. 
Pour  off  from  the  leaves  and  let  cool.  When  cool,  dilute  with 
ice  water  if  a  weaker  beverage  is  desired  and  add  ice.  For  spe- 
cial occasions  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  ice  may  be  added  to  every 
glass  filled  with  iced  tea,  or  orange  ice  may  be  used  instead.  A 
few  sprigs  of  crushed  mint  and  slices  of  lemon  provide  other 
variations. 

Cocoa 

6  tablespoonfuls  cocoa  4%  cupfuls  milk 

5  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1%  cupfuls  water 

■14  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Mix  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  milk  and  heat  to 
the  scalding  point.  Beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  if  one  is  avail- 
able and  add  the  vanilla  just  before  serving.  A  marshmallow 
or  spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  may  be  added  to  every  cupful  of 
the  hot  cocoa. 

Breakfast  Cocoa  with  Egg 

1%  teaspoonfuls  cocoa  %  cupful  milk 

1%  teaspoonfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water  1  egg 

Mix  the  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt  and  add  the  water.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  stirring  constantly,  and  boil  2  minutes.  Turn  into 
the  scalded  milk  and  beat.  Beat  an  egg  to  a  light  froth  and  add 
the  cocoa  gradually,  beating  constantly.  This  makes  a  nutritious 
beverage  for  a  child  or  a  person  who  is  ill. 

Chocolate 

1%  squares  chocolate  1%  cupfuls  boiling  water 

6  tablespoonfuls  sugar  414  cupfuls  scalded  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Add  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the 
water  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  boil  until  smooth  and 
glossy.  Pour  into  the  milk,  reheat  and  beat  with  a  Dover  egg 
beater  just  before  serving. 


THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 


Cocoa  Syrup 

%  cupful  cocoa  4  cupfuls  boiling  water 

%  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

Combine  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the  boiling  water  grad- 
ually, stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  slowly  10  or  15  minutes.  Then 
add  vanilla  and  salt.    Cool  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  used. 

Iced  Cocoa 

Add  4  cupfuls  of  milk  to  the  Cocoa  Syrup.  Either  heat  the 
milk  and  beat  in  the  syrup  and  chill  before  adding  the  ice  or 
combine  the  cold  syrup  with  the  cold  milk  and  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  until  the  two  mixtures  are  blended.  After  filling  glasses 
with  iced  cocoa,  place  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  or 
stiffly  beaten  egg  white  on  top  of  every  glass. 

Lemonade 

4  cupful*  water  3  lemons 

%  cupful  sugar 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  with  I/2  cupful  of  the  water 
and  a  slice  of  lemon.  Cool,  add  lemon  juice  and  the  remainder 
of  the  water.  Ice  and  serve  garnished  with  a  thin  slice  of  lemon 
or  a  sprig  of  mint. 

Honey  Lemonade 

To  1  quart  of  lemonade  add  1  cupful  of  strained  pineapple 
juice  and  1  cupful  of  strawberry  or  red  raspberry  juice."  Add  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  strained  honey  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla. 
Serve  ice  cold. 

Grape  Lemonade 

To  every  glass  of  lemonade  add  1  tablespoonful  of  grape  juice, 
a  thin  slice  of  lemon  and  crushed  ice. 

Russian  Tea 

To  1  pint  of  tea  infusion  add  1  pint  of  lemonade.  Ice  and 
serve. 


BEVERAGES  9 

Grandmother's  Lemonade 

4  cupfuls  sugar  1^  cupfuls  lemon  juice 

grated  rind  3  lemons  6  cupfuls  water 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  rind  together  10  minutes.  Add  the 
lemon  juice  while  hot.  Cool  and  dilute  with  ice  water,  using  1 
cupful  of  the  lemon  syrup  to  31/2  cupfuls  of  water.  Add  chopped 
ice.  The  syrup  may  be  bottled  and  kept  for  future  use  if  one 
wishes. 

Fruit  Foundation  Drink 

2  oranges  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  lemon  3  cupfuls  water 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  fruit  and  strain.  Make  a  syrup 
by  cooking  the  sugar  with  1  cupful  of  the  water  5  minutes. 
Cool,  add  the  fruit  juice  and  the  rest  of  the  water.  Add  ice  to 
chill  and  serve  very  cold.  To  vary  this,  add  other  fruit  juices 
which  have  been  sweetened  to  taste. 

Raspberry  Juice 

Use  1  part  of  the  Foundation  Fruit  Drink  to  3  parts  of  sweet- 
ened raspberry  juice. 

Pineapple  Juice 

Use  3  parts  of  the  Foundation  Fruit  Drink  to  1  part  of  pine- 
apple juice. 

Cherry  Juice 

Combine  1  part  of  sweetened  cherry  juice  with  3  parts  of  the 
Foundation  Fruit  Drink. 

Grape  Juice  Delicious 

Use  equal  parts  of  the  Foundation  Fruit  Drink  and  sweetened 
grape  juice. 

Tea  Punch 

Use  1  part  of  the  Foundation  Fruit  Drink  to  3  parts  of 
Russian  Tea. 


10  THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Eggnog 

1  egg  %  cupful  milk 

2  teaspoonfuls  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  flavoring 

speck  of  salt 

Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring.  Beat 
a  little  and  then  add  the  milk  gradually.    Strain  and  serve. 

Milk  Shake 

Place  1  cupful  of  milk  in  a  glass  fruit  jar,  add  1  egg  or  1  egg 
white,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  i/i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Add  a  little  ice  or  use  very  cold  ingredients.  Screw  on  the  top 
of  the  can  and  shake  vigorously.  Pour  into  a  tumbler  and 
sprinkle  a  few  cooky  crumbs  over  the  top. 

Gaie  au  Lait 

Make  1%  cupfuls  of  strong  coffee,  using  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
coffee  to  iy2  cupfuls  of  water.  Heat  5  cupfuls  of  milk  and  pour 
the  coffee  in  this.    Serve  for  breakfast. 

Flavored  Milks 

Place  a  few  drops  of  any  good  flavoring  extract  in  a  glass  of 
milk  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  a  little  nutmeg 
or  cinnamon  over  the  top.  A  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top 
of  every  glass  of  flavored  milk  improves  its  appearance  and  taste. 

Spiced  Milk 

Heat  2  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Add  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  speck  of  salt  and  Vs  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg, Ys  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  %  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Beat  until  the  spices  are  blended  with  the  milk  and  serve  warm. 

Cocoa  for  a  Party 

%  cupful  cocoa  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  cupful  sugar  4  cupfuls  cold  water 

%  cupful  flour  4  cupfuls  milk 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Mix  the  cocoa,  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together;  add  the  water; 
stir  to  remove  the  lumps  and  cook  20  minutes,  stirring  the  mix- 


BEVEEAGES  11 

ture  constantly  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached  and  occasionally 
afterward.  Add  milk,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 
vanilla.  Beat  1  minute  and  serve  with  marshmallows  or  stiffly 
beaten  cream.  This  cocoa  will  stand  for  hours  and  improve  with 
the  standing.  There  will  be  no  settlings  in  the  bottom  of  the 
utensil  in  which  it  is  placed.    This  serves  10  persons. 


CHAPTER  3 

YEAST  BREADS 

Good  bread  may  be  obtained  by  the  use  and  careful  manipula- 
tion of  wholesome  materials.  The  flour  should  be  creamy  white 
and  free  from  contamination  by  molds,  bacteria  and  insects. 
The  yeast  must  be  fresh  with  the  well-known  yeasty  odor.  Of 
course,  it  must  not  be  sour.  The  shortening  should  have  a  good 
flavor. 

What  is  the  Ideal  Loaf? 

In  making  bread  for  exhibits  at  fairs  and  for  use  at  home 
quite  frequently  the  question  is  asked:  What  is  the  ideal  loaf? 
The  appearance  of  the  loaf  is  the  first  factor  of  importance. 
The  crust  should  be  of  an  even  golden  brown  color  on  the  top, 
bottom  and  sides.  The  sides  are  straight  and  the  top  is  slightly 
rounded.    The  surface  is  free  from  cracks  and  creases. 

One  of  the  necessary  requirements  of  the  ideal  loaf  is  a  pleas- 
ing fresh  or  nutty  flavor  with  no  trace  of  a  sour  or  acid  taste. 
Thoroughness  of  baking  influences  both  the  flavor  and  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  loaf.  A  way  to  determine  whether  the  baking 
is  thorough  is  to  cut  a  slice  from  a  newly  baked  loaf  and  then 
press  the  two  crusts  together.  If  the  loaf  springs  back  in  shape 
again  with  no  injury  to  the  crumb,  the  baking  is  thorough. 

The  crumb  should  be  of  a  creamy  white  color  and  feathery  in 
appearance ;  the  openings  in  it  should  be  small  and  of  a  uniform 
size. 

Yeasts  for  Bread  Making 

If  compressed  yeast  is  used,  one  should  be  certain  that  it  is 
fresh.  The  cakes  which  have  patches  or  streaks  of  black  on  them 
should  be  discarded.  Since  very  high  or  low  temperatures  de- 
stroy the  yeast  plant,  only  lukewarm  liquids  are  used  in  bread 
making.    When  liquid  yeast  is  the  form  used,  it  should  be  kept 

12 


YEAST  BEEADS  13 

covered  and  in  a  cool  place  from  one  baking  day  to  another.  It 
produces  best  results  when  used  frequently.  Water,  potato 
water,  whey,  whole  milk  and  skim  milk  are  liquids  suitable  for 
use  in  bread.  Milk  should  always  be  scalded  and  cooled  until 
lukewarm  before  being  added  to  the  dough. 

Oaring  for  the  Sponge  and  Dough 

Bread  sponge  should  be  kept  at  ordinary  room  temperature, 
around  70  degrees  Fahrenheit,  unless  one  uses  the  straight  dough 
method  and  does  not  let  the  sponge  stand  overnight.  In  such 
cases  a  warmer  temperature,  one  from  80  to  88  degrees  Fahren- 
heit, is  more  satisfactory. 

The  dough  should  be  covered  tightly  with  a  lid  or  clean  towel 
to  keep  a  crust  from  forming  on  top  due  to  surface  evaporation. 
Sponge  standing  overnight  may  be  kept  in  the  oven  of  the  range, 
the  well  of  a  fireless  cooker  with  the  radiator  slightly  heated  or 
in  a  sponge-box ;  the  directions  for  making  this  device  are  found 
elsewhere  in  this  book. 

After  bread  dough  is  kneaded,  it  is  allowed  to  rise  until  double 
in  bulk.  Then  it  is  kneaded  lightly,  cut  in  divisions,  shaped  into 
loaves  and  placed  in  the  pans,  taking  care  that  it  is  pushed  well 
into  the  corners.  Individual  bread  tins  produce  a  loaf  with  a 
uniform  crust  on  all  surfaces.  If  they  are  used,  the  tins,  not  the 
bread,  are  greased.  When  more  than  one  loaf  is  baked  in  a  tin, 
the  bread  is  greased  so  that  the  loaves  can  be  separated  when 
baked.  The  loaves  should  rise  double  their  bulk  before  being 
baked. 

Temperature  Needs  Attention 

A  hot  oven  is  desirable  for  the  first  15  minutes  of  baking,  but 
after  that  the  temperature  is  reduced  gradually  so  that  the  loaves 
wiU  not  be  browned  too  much  and  too  thick  a  crust  will  not  be 
formed.  If  an  oven  thermometer  is  used,  it  should  register  at 
400  to  420  degrees  Fahrenheit  during  the  first  15  minutes  and 
then  the  temperature  should  be  reduced  to  365  degrees  Fahren- 
heit. These  temperatures  are  for  use  with  the  gas  and  kerosene 
heated  oven.  Eeduce  the  heat  from  50  to  70  degrees  in  the  range 
oven  with  a  thermostat  in  the  door.  When  a  thermometer  is  not 
available  for  judging  the  temperature,  one  can  tell  when  the 


14      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

oven  heat  is  right  by  spreading  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  one-fourth 
inch  thick  on  a  small  tin,  like  a  lid  to  a  jelly  glass,  and  setting 
this  in  the  oven.  If  it  is  browned  throughout  in  5  minutes,  the 
temperature  is  right  for  inserting  the  bread  to  be  baked.  If  a 
tender  crust  is  desired,  brush  the  dough  with  melted  butter,  and 
if  a  crisp  crust  is  wanted,  brush  the  tops  of  the  loaves  with 
slightly  beaten  egg  white.  It  requires  from  50  to  60  minutes  to 
bake  bread. 

Storing  Bread 

After  the  bread  is  removed  from  the  oven,  it  is  taken  out  of 
the  pans  and  placed  on  a  wire  rack  or  across  the  edges  of  the 
pans  to  cool.  Bread  is  not  covered  while  cooling  unless  the 
covering  is  necessary  for  protection  from  flies,  dirt  or  insects. 
When  the  loaves  are  thoroughly  cool,  they  are  placed  in  a  clean, 
well  ventilated  and  covered  tin  or  aluminum  box  or  in  a  stone 
crock. 

YEASTS 

Dry  Yeast 

Place  2  cupfuls  of  strong  hops  or  peach  leaves  in  2  quarts  of 
water  and  let  this  boil  30  minutes.  Sift  4  cupfuls  of  flour  into  an 
earthenware  crock  or  jar  and  pour  the  boiling  hop  water  into  it, 
stirring  constantly.  Set  the  mixture  in  a  cool  place.  When 
lukewarm  add  1  cupful  of  dry  yeast  which  has  been  moistened  in 
lukewarm  water.  Set  in  a  warm  place  until  the  batter  rises, 
then  stir  down.  Continue  this  process  until  the  fermentation 
ceases,  which  will  be  about  2  days. 

Then  pour  the  yeast  into  a  quart  of  sifted  cornmeal.  Add 
sufficient  meal  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  for  kneading. 
Knead  well,  roll  1  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares,  place  on  a  cloth. 
Cover  with  another  cloth  and  set  aside  to  dry  in  a  room  where 
there  is  no  danger  of  freezing.  Turn  frequently  until  these  yeast 
cakes  are  thoroughly  dry. 

Buttermilk  Yeast 

Scald  2  cupfuls  of  buttermilk,  add  1/2  cupful  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  stir  in  sufficient  flour  to  thicken.     When 


YEAST  BREADS  15 

cool  add  1  yeast  cake  which  has  been  dissolved  in  1/4  cupful  of 
lukewarm  water.  Stir  in  cornmeal  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  shape 
into  cakes  with  the  hands  and  dry  in  a  moderately  warm  room. 

Potato  Yeast 

4  medium-sized  potatoes  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

4  cupfuls  boiling  water  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  cake  dry  yeast 

Grate  the  pared  potatoes  into  the  boiling  water  and  boil  until 
the  starch  is  cooked,  stirring  constantly.  Stir  in  the  sugar  and 
salt  while  the  mixture  is  hot,  cool  to  lukewarm,  then  add  the 
yeast  cake  which  has  been  broken  up  and  soaked  in  a  little  luke- 
warm water.  Put  into  a  clean  jar  and  allow  to  ferment  24  hours, 
then  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  This  will  keep  2  weeks,  and  the 
last  cupful  may  be  used  in  place  of  a  dry  yeast  cake  in  making 
a  new  supply. 

White  Bread  (Straight  Dough  Method) 

4  cupfuls  liquid  4  teaspoonfuls  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  %  to  1  cupful  potato  yeast  or 

2  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

14  to  16  cupfuls  flour 

Mix  the  sugar,  shortening  and  salt  in  a  large  mixing  bowl  or 
a  bread  mixer  and  add  the  liquid.  Milk,  whey,  potato  water  or 
water  may  be  used.  Milk  is  always  scalded  before  being  added 
to  the  other  ingredients.  Cool  the  mixture,  stirring  occasionally. 
When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast.  If  potato  yeast  is  used,  shake  it 
thoroughly  before  adding  and  use  31/2  cupfuls  of  liquid  instead 
of  4  cupfuls.  When  compressed  yeast  is  used,  it  is  softened  by 
being  soaked  in  14  cupful  of  lukewarm  water.  If  one  is  in  a 
hurry,  the  amount  of  compressed  yeast  may  be  increased  to  1% 
or  2  cakes.  After  the  yeast  is  added,  stir  in  the  flour  gradually, 
beating  thoroughly  after  every  addition. 

Add  flour  until  the  dough  can  be  lifted  in  a  mass  on  a  spoon, 
leaving  the  bowl  or  bread  mixer  free  from  dough.  Turn  on  a 
floured  board,  if  a  bread  mixer  is  not  used,  and  knead  lightly, 
keeping  a  small  amount  of  flour  on  the  board,  until  the  dough 
is  smooth,  elastic  to  touch  and  stiff  enough  that  it  will  not  stick 
to  a  clean  board  or  to  the  hands.  It  takes  about  10  minutes  to 
knead  bread  by  hand  and  from  3  to  4  minutes  in  a  bread  mixer. 


16      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

After  kneading  the  dough,  place  it  in  a  clean  bowl  or  leave  it 
in  the  bread  mixer,  cover  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  crust 
on  top  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Set  in  a  place  of  uni- 
form temperature  and  away  from  drafts.  When  light,  knead  on 
the  unfloured  board  or  in  the  bread  mixer  long  enough  to  dis- 
tribute the  gas  bubbles  evenly.  This  takes  only  a  few  minutes. 
Shape  into  4  loaves  and  place  in  oiled  pans,  pressing  well  into 
the  corners.  Let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven,  decreasing  the  heat  somewhat  after  the  first  15  min- 
utes of  baking. 

White  Bread  (Sponge  Method) 

4  cupfuls  liquid  %  cupful  potato  yeast  or 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  cake  of  dry  yeast 
2  tablespoonfuls  shortening  14  to  16  cupfuls  flour 

4  teaspoonfuls  salt  1  cupful  mashed  potato  (if  desired) 

Soak  the  dry  yeast  30  minutes  in  lukewarm  liquid.  Add  the 
potato  and  salt  to  the  scalded  milk  or  to  any  liquid,  such  as 
potato  water,  water  or  whey,  which  one  wishes  to  use.  If  mashed 
potatoes  are  added,  use  3%  cupfuls  of  liquid  instead  of  the  4 
cupfuls.    When  this  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast. 

In  case  potato  yeast  is  used,  the  amount  of  liquid  is  decreased 
because  the  yeast  is  in  liquid  form.  When  liquid  yeast  and 
potatoes  are  used,  the  total  amount  of  milk,  whey,  water  or 
potato  water  added  should  be  3  cupfuls.  If  the  liquid  yeast  is 
used  without  the  addition  of  potatoes,  3%  cupfuls  of  the  liquid 
are  added. 

Add  6  cupfuls  of  flour,  beat  until  the  mixture  is  smooth,  cover 
and  set  to  rise  overnight  in  a  place  having  a  temperature  of 
from  60  to  70  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Shape  into  4  loaves  and 
place  in  oiled  pans,  pressing  well  into  the  corners.  Let  rise  again 
until  double  in  bulk  and  bake. 

White  Bread  (Quick  Sponge  Method) 

2%  cupfuls  liquid  2  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

4  teaspoonfuls  salt  %  cupful  potato  yeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  cupful  mashed  potato 

12  to  16  cupfuls  flour 

Scald  the  milk  or  add  the  other  liquids  such  as  whey,  water 
and  potato  water,  if  they  are  used  instead,  and  stir  in  the  sugar, 
salt  and  shortening.     When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the 


YEAST  BREADS  17 

yeast,  potato  and  6  cupfuls  of  flour,  beating  until  smooth. 
Cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  quite  light  and  full 
of  bubbles,  which  will  be  in  about  II/2  hours,  break  up  the  sponge 
with  a  spoon  and  add  sufficient  flour  that  the  dough  may  be 
kneaded.  Knead  and  follow  the  directions  for  making  bread  by 
the  sponge  method. 

If  one  wishes  to  use  compressed  yeast  instead  of  the  potato 
yeast,  from  1%  to  2  cakes  will  give  good  results.  This  is  dis- 
solved in  a  small  amount  of  the  lukewarm  liquid  and  instead  of 
using  2%  cupfuls  of  the  liquid,  as  is  the  case  with  potato  yeast, 
use  31^  cupfuls. 

Graham  Bread 

Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  White  Bread,  only  substitute 
Graham  or  whole  wheat  flour  for  one-half  of  the  flour.  Mix 
either  by  the  Straight  Dough  or  Sponge  Method. 

Rye  Bread 

A  simple  and  easy  way  to  make  a  couple  of  loaves  of  rye  bread 
when  the  dough  for  white  bread  is  mixed  stiff  and  is  ready  to 
be  made  into  loaves  is  to  take  6  cupfuls  of  the  dough  and  add 
to  it  1/^  cupful  of  molasses,  %  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  2  cupfuls 
of  rye  meal.  Work  in  the  hands  until  the  ingredients  are  mixed 
in  the  dough.  If  the  mixture  is  not  stiff  enough  to  mold  into 
loaves,  add  just  enough  wheat  flour  so  it  can  be  shaped  properly. 
Let  rise  until  light  and  bake. 

Parkerhouse  Rolls  (Quick  Method) 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  -^  to  ^  cake  compressed  yeast  or 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  to  4  tablespoonfuls  potato  yeast 

3  to  4  cupfuls  sifted  flour 

Add  the  sugar,  salt  and  butter  to  the  scalded  milk.  When 
lukewarm,  add  the  compressed  yeast  which  has  been  soaked  in 
%  cupful  of  lukewarm  water  or  the  potato  yeast.  Add  flour 
until  no  more  can  be  worked  in  with  a  spoon.  Cover  tightly  and 
let  rise  until  three  times  its  bulk.  Turn  on  a  floured  board, 
knead  lightly  and  roll  %  inch  thick.  Cut  with  an  oval  or  round 
floured  cutter.    Crease  in  the  middle  with  a  floured  knife  han- 


18      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

die,  rub  one  half  with  melted  butter  and  fold  over.  Place  the 
rolls  one  inch  apart  in  an  oiled  tin  and  let  rise  until  light.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 


Parkerhouse  Rolls  (Sponge  Method) 

1  cupful  milk  %  cake  dry  yeast  or 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  potato  jeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  Vegg 

2  tablespoonfuls  shortening  3  or  4  cupfuls  flour 

Scald  the  milk  and  cool.  When  lukewarm  add  the  potato 
yeast  or  the  dry  yeast,  which  has  been  soaked  30  minutes  in  14 
cupful  of  lukewarm  water.  Add  the  salt  and  1%  cupfuls  of 
flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  cover  and  set  to  rise  overnight.  In 
the  morning  break  up  the  sponge  with  a  spoon,  add  the  sugar, 
shortening,  well  beaten  egg  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough 
that  may  be  kneaded.  Knead  until  the  dough  is  smooth,  elastic 
and  no  longer  sticks  to  the  board  or  the  fingers.  Cover  and  let 
rise.  Then  turn  on  a  board,  knead  lightly  and  roll  %  inch  thick. 
Cut  with  an  oval  or  round  floured  cutter.  Crease  in  the  middle 
with  a  floured  knife  handle,  rub  one  half  with  melted  butter  and 
fold  over.  Place  the  rolls  one  inch  apart  in  an  oiled  tin  and  let 
rise  until  double  in  size.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 


Cinnamon  Bolls 

Eoll  Parkerhouse  roll  dough  %  inch  thick.  Spread  with 
melted  butter  and  sprinkle  liberally  with  a  mixture  of  5  parts 
of  sugar  to  1  part  of  ground  cinnamon.  Eoll  as  a  jelly  roll, 
cut  in  %  inch  slices.  Put  closely  in  a  buttered  tin  after  rubbing 
the  surface  of  the  rolls  with  melted  butter.  Have  the  cut  side 
up.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  35  minutes. 

Dinner  Rolls 

Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  Parkerhouse  rolls.  Shape 
the  dough  in  small  biscuits,  place  in  rows  on  a  floured  board, 
cover  with  a  cloth  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  Flour  the 
handle  of  a  knife  and  make  a  deep  crease  in  the  middle  of  each 
roll.    Take  up  and  press  the  edges  together.    Place  closely  in  a 


YEAST  BEEADS  19 

buttered  tin,  after  rubbing  the  surface  of  the  rolls  with  melted 
butter,  cover,  let  rise  until  light  and  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven. 

Crescents 

When  the  dough  for  Parkerhouse  rolls  is  light,  roll  in  a  sheet 
%  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  strips  about  4  inches  wide; 
cut  these  in  sharp  pointed  triangles,  then  beginning  at  the  base, 
roll  them  up,  bringing  the  ends  toward  each  other,  keeping  the 
point  in  the  middle  of  the  roll  to  give  the  shape  of  a  crescent. 
Place  some  distance  apart  on  an  oiled  tin  and  let  rise  until 
light.    Bake  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

Clover  Leaf  Rolls 

Oil  muffin  tins.  Take  small  bits  of  Parkerhouse  rolls  dough, 
knead  until  smooth  and  shape  into  balls.  Fit  three  of  these  in 
each  muffin  tin.    Let  rise  and  bake. 


Braids 

When  the  dough  for  Parkerhouse  rolls  is  light,  roll  in  a  sheet 
14  inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  strips  %  inch  wide  and  then  braid 
them  in  3  or  4  strands,  having  the  braids  wider  in  the  center 
than  at  the  ends.  When  light  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Raisin  Coffee  Bread 

2  cupfuls  bread  dough  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  beaten  egg  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  cupful  chopped  raisins 

%  cupful  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar 

Work  the  egg,  melted  butter,  sugar,  l^  teaspoonful  of  the  cin- 
namon and  the  floured  raisins  into  the  dough.  If  additional 
flour  is  needed  to  make  a  soft  dough,  add  it  and  work  it  in  with 
the  fingers.  Place  the  loaf  in  an  oiled  round  pan  and  sprinkle 
the  top  with  the  rest  of  the  cinnamon  which  is  mixed  with  the 
powdered  sugar.  Let  rise  until  light  and  bake  from  30  to  40 
minutes.  Chopped  dates  or  currants  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
raisins. 


20     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 


t 


Coffee  Bread 

4  cupful  scalded  milk  %  cake  compressed  yeast  or 

,4  cupful  strong  coffee  2  tablespoonfuls  potato  yeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  cupful  currants 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

^  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

flour 

Scald  milk  and  add  to  the  coffee.  When  lukewarm,  add  the 
yeast,  salt  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Let  rise; 
then  add  sugar,  butter,  egg,  spices,  currants  and  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.    Put  in  an  oiled  tin,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

2  cupfuls  oat  cereal  1%  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  yeast  cake  1  cupful  sugar 

4  cupfuls  boiling  water  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

%  cupful  lukewarm  water  2  quarts  wheat  flour 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  oat  cereal  and  let  stand  until 
lukewarm.  Then  add  the  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the 
lukewarm  water.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  stirring  together 
with  a  spoon.  Knead  until  the  dough  is  elastic,  smooth,  and  no 
longer  sticks  to  an  unfloured  board  or  to  the  fingers.  Use  more 
flour  if  necessary.  Let  rise  until  light,  shape  into  loaves,  let  rise 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Raisin  Bread 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  or  4  eggs 

%  to  1  cupful  potato  yeast  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

2%  cupfuls  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

%  cupful  sugar  9  cupfuls  flour 

^  cupful  shortening  3  cupfuls  raisins 

Scald  the  milk  and  cool.  Add  the  compressed  yeast,  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  liquid,  or  the  potato  yeast 
when  the  milk  is  lukewarm.  Stir  in  1%  cupfuls  of  flour.  Beat 
well  and  let  stand  until  light.  Then  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  knead  thoroughly.  Add  more  flour  if  the  dough  is  not  stiff 
enough  to  knead.  Let  rise  until  double  in  size.  Divide  in  six 
parts,  let  rise  and  bake. 

Eggless  Raisin  Bread 

3%  cupfuls  milk  %  cupful  potato  yeast  or 

4  teaspoonfuls  salt  1  cake  dry  yeast 

%  cupful  sugar  3  cupfuls  raisins 

%  cupful  shortening  12  to  16  cupfuls  flour 


YEAST  BREADS  31 

If  dry  yeast  is  used^  increase  the  amount  of  liquid  to  4  cup- 
fuls.  Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  salt.  When  lukewarm  add 
the  potato  yeast  or  the  yeast  cake  which  has  been  soaked  in  a 
little  lukewarm  water  for  at  least  30  minutes.  Stir  in  one-half 
of  the  flour,  beating  the  mixture  until  smooth.  Cover  and  let 
rise  overnight  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  stir  with  a 
spoon,  add  the  sugar  and  melted  shortening  and  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  kneading  the  dough  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  elastic 
and  no  longer  sticks  to  the  fingers  or  a  clean  board.  Cover  and 
let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Toss  on  a  board,  knead  long 
enough  to  distribute  the  gas  bubbles,  dredge  the  raisins  with 
flour  and  knead  them  into  the  dough.  Form  into  4  loaves,  place 
in  oiled  tins,  let  rise  until  light  and  bake  50  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Rye  Bread 

2  cupfuls  milk  ^  cake  yeast  or 

3  tablespoonfuls  shortening  2  tablespoonfuls  potato  yeast 
5  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar                 3  cupfuls  flour 

1^  teaspoonfuls  salt  rye  meal 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  salt.  When  lukewarm  add  the 
yeast  and  beat  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Cover 
and  let  stand  overnight  in  a  warm  place.  Add  the  melted  short- 
ening and  the  butter  in  the  morning.  Stir  in  the  remainder  of 
the  flour  and  sufficient  rye  meal  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to 
knead.  Knead  until  the  dough  becomes  smooth,  elastic  and  no 
longer  sticks  to  the  hands  or  a  clean  board.  Let  rise,  shape  into 
loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Ever-ready  Biscuit  Dough 

1  quart  milk  1  cake  yeast 

1  cupful  mashed  potatoes  V2  cupful  lukewarm  water 

21^  teaspoonfuls  salt  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  melted  fat  1  teaspoonful  soda 

flour 

Scald  the  milk  and  let  cool.  When  lukewarm  add  the  pota- 
toes, salt,  baking  powder,  soda,  fat  and  the  yeast,  either  the  com- 
pressed or  dry,  which  has  been  softened  in  the  lukewarm  water. 
Phosphate  baking  powders  give  better  results  than  others  in 
this  recipe.  Add  sufficient  flour,  about  5  cupfuls,  to  make  a  soft 
sponge.     Let  stand  until  small  bubbles  appear  on  the  surface. 


22      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Usually  this  takes  about  1%  hours.  Then  add  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  dough  which  may  be  kneaded.  Knead  until  the 
dough  is  elastic  and  smooth,  then  place  it  in  a  covered  mixing 
bowl  and  set  in  the  refrigerator  or  some  equally  cool  place.  Do 
not  let  freeze,  for  very  low  temperatures  destroy  yeast.  This 
dough  may  be  used  any  time  after  standing  24  hours.  The 
amount  for  biscuits  or  rolls  is  pinched  off,  shaped,  allowed  to 
rise  and  when  light,  the  dough  is  baked  in  a  hot  oven.  To  pre- 
vent the  formation  of  a  crust  on  the  dough,  it  should  be  kept 
covered,  and  it  will  spoil  if  not  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Kolaches 

1  cupful  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

%  cupful  water  1  egg 

%  cake  yeast  3  cupfuls  flour 

1  cupful  flour  1  cupful  cooked  prune  pulp 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  %  cupful  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Make  a  sponge  by  adding  the  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved 
in  the  l^  cupful  of  lukewarm  water  and  1  cupful  of  flour  to  the 
milk.  When  light  add  the  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  butter, 
well  beaten  egg,  salt  and  sufficient  flour  to  knead,  about  3  cup- 
fuls. Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  then  stir  down,  roll  out  and 
shape  into  biscuits.  Arrange  in  an  oiled  bread  pan  and  let  rise. 
When  these  biscuits  are  light,  press  down  the  centers.  Mix  the 
cooked  and  chopped  prune  pulp  with  the  %  cupful  of  sugar  and 
add  the  cinnamon.  Place  1  teaspoonful  of  this  mixture  on  the 
center  of  every  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes 
from  30  to  36  biscuits. 

English  Toasted  Muffins 

When  mixing  and  kneading  bread  dough,  pinch  off  a  few  bis- 
cuits and  let  rise  30  minutes.  Then  roll  to  about  %  inch  in 
thickness  and  bake  these  biscuits  on  a  hot,  slightly  greased  grid- 
dle, browning  on  both  sides.  When  the  toasted  muffin  is  desired, 
split  open  these  biscuits,  brown  and  butter  generously. 

Bread  Strips 

Cut  the  bread  dough  in  strips,  let  rise  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  maple  or  some  other  syrup. 


YEAST  BREADS  23 

Raised  Doughnuts 

2  cupfuls  bread  dough  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter  flour 

When  the  dough  for  the  bread  rises  the  last  time  in  the  pan 
and  is  kneaded  on  the  board  to  be  shaped  into  loaves,  put  2  cup- 
fuls of  it  in  a  mixing  bowl  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  using 
the  flour  necessary  to  enable  one  to  roll  the  dough  %  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  rings  or  strips  and  leave  on  a  floured  board  to  rise. 
When  light,  fry  in  hot  fat,  browning  on  both  sides.  Dip  in  sugar 
when  taken  from  the  kettle. 

Bread  Sponge  Cake 

Mix  together  2  cupfuls  of  bread  sponge,  %  cupful  butter,  1^2 
cupTuls  sugar,  1  cupful  flour,  3  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoonful  ginger, 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  cocoa,  1  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  %  cupful  of  warm  water,  1  cupful  of  chopped  and 
floured  raisins,  14  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  3  stifily  beaten  egg 
whites.  Pour  mixture  into  a  floured  pan  and  bake  at  once  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Cover  with  a  caramel  or  other  icing  when  the 
cake  is  cool. 

Mincemeat  Rolls 

Eoll  out  bread  dough,  spread  with  butter  and  a  layer  of  mince- 
meat. Eoll  up  like  a  jelly  roll  and  cut  off  I/2  inch  pieces.  Place 
these  cut  side  up  in  an  oiled  pan,  let  rise  until  very  light  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  4 
QUICK  BREADS 

Muffins 

%  cupful  butter  6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

%  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

y2  teaspoonful  salt  2  cupfuls  milk 

4  cupfuls  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  the  mixture  until 
light  and  creamy.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  sift  the  dry  in- 
gredients together  and  add  them  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake 
in  buttered  muffin  tins  25  minutes.    This  serves  7  or  8  persons. 

Fruit  Muffins 

To  the  muffin  batter  add  1  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured 
raisins,  currants  or  dates.  If  one  wishes,  %  cupful  of  nut  meats 
and  %  cupful  of  raisins  may  be  added. 

Graham  Muffins 

Make  as  muffins,  using  equal  parts  of  white  and  Graham  or 
whole  wheat  flour. 

Cornmeal  Muffins 
Make  as  muffins,  using  %  cornmeal  and  %  white  flour. 

Berry  Muffins 

Add  1  cupful  of  blueberries,  huckleberries  or  chopped  cran- 
berries to  muffin  batter  just  before  baking. 

Apple  Muffins 

Stir  1  cupful  of  chopped  apples  into  the  muffin  batter  and 
bake. 

24 


QUICK  BREADS  25 

Squash  Muffins 

2  cupfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  teaspoonful  salt  V2  cupful  cooked  squash 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  1  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  beat  the  egg  and  add  to  it 
the  milk  and  the  steamed  squash  which  has  been  put  through  a 
sieve.  Add  the  melted  shortening  and  combine  the  two  mix- 
tures.   Bake  in  oiled  mufiin  tins  25  minutes. 


Oatmeal  Muffins 

1  cupful  cooked  oatmeal  %  teaspoonful  salt 
1%  cupfuls  flour                                      %  cupful  milk 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

y2  cupful  raisins 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk,  well  beaten 
eggs  and  oatmeal.  Beat  thoroughly.  Add  the  melted  butter  and 
the  slightly  floured  raisins.    Bake  in  oiled  muffi[n  pans. 

Buttermilk  Muffins 

4  cupfuls  cornmeal  2  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  salt  3  cupfuls  buttermilk 

3  tablespoonfuls  fat  1%  teaspoonfuls  soda 

Sift  the  meal,  add  the  salt  and  melted  shortening.  Beat  the 
eggs  thoroughly  and  then  add  the  buttermilk.  Dissolve  the  soda 
in  a  little  water  and  add  it.  Pour  into  hot,  well  greased  muffin 
or  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

2  cupfuls  flour  %  to  1  cupful  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  tablespoonfuls  fat 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  work  in  the  fat  with 
the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Gradually  add  the  milk,  mixing  it  in  with 
a  knife.  The  dough  should  be  as  soft  as  can  be  handled  with- 
out sticking.  Turn  on  to  a  lightly  floured  board,  roll  lightly  % 
inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  floured  cutter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
from  12  to  15  minutes. 


26     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Parisian  Biscuits 

Use  the  ingredients  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuits,  only  add  an 
additional  tablespoonful  of  fat  and  I/2  cupful  of  chopped  raisins. 
Mix  the  raisins  with  a  little  of  the  flour  and  work  them  into  the 
biscuit  dough  the  last  thing  before  rolling  it.  Roll  about  I/2  i^ich 
in  thickness  and  cut  or  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  pan.  Brush  the 
top  with  milk  and  bake. 

Cheese  Biscuits 

Use  the  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  dough,  only  add  1  well  beaten 
egg  to  it.  Roll  out,  cut  biscuits  and  sprinkle  one-half  of  these 
with  grated  cheese.  Cover  with  other  biscuits  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake 

Use  the  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  dough,  adding  1  extra  table- 
spoonful  of  fat  to  it.  Place  the  dough  in  a  pan;  a  round  one 
about  4  inches  deep  is  desirable.  Spread  a  mixture  made  by 
combining  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  l^  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  on  top. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Fancy  Biscuits 

Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fat  to  the  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
mixture,  roll  out  and  cut  in  tiny  circles.  Place  3  raisins  or  1 
nut  meat  on  top  of  every  circle  and  brush  the  tops  with  melted 
butter.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pinwheels 

Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuits,  only 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  fat,  making  3  in  all.  Roll  the  dough 
about  1/2  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  it  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
mixed  with  1/2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Dot  with  butter  and 
then  distribute  1/2  cupful  of  chopped  raisins  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  citron  evenly  over  the  top.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  off  1/2 
inch  slices  and  place  them,  the  cut  side  down,  in  a  greased  pan. 
Bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


QUICK  BREADS  27 

Jam  Rolls 

Add  1  tablespoonful  of  fat  to  the  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
dough,  roll  14  i^ch  thick  and  spread  with  strawberry,  raspberry 
or  blackberry  jam.  Eoll  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  off  i/^  inch  slices 
and  place  cut  side  down  in  a  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  a  pudding  sauce. 

Fruit  Dumplings 

Make  biscuit  dough,  using  3  tablespoonfuls  of  fat.  Cut  rather 
large  biscuits  and  in  the  center  of  them  place  well  cooked  dried 
fruit  or  canned  fruit  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar  and  a  dash 
of  spice.  Bring  the  edges  of  the  biscuit  together  with  a  twist, 
covering  the  fruit.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  with  a  sauce 
made  from  sweetened  fruit  juice  thickened  with  a  little  corn- 
starch. 

Steamed  Dumplings 

Roll  out  biscuit  dough,  cut  in  six  parts  and  pat  every  one  into 
a  square.  Place  a  small  pared  and  cored  apple  in  the  center  of 
every  piece,  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg 
and  fold  the  corners  of  the  dough  about  it,  pressing  them  to- 
gether tightly.  Steam  45  minutes  and  serve  hot  with  a  pudding 
sauce. 

Meat  Pie  Covering 

Use  a  biscuit  dough  made  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  fat  instead 
of  the  2. 

Dumplings 

Omit  the  fat  in  the  recipe  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuits  and  use 
either  milk  or  chicken  broth  for  the  liquid.  Meat  stock  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  chicken  broth. 


Biscuit  Pies 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  casserole  with  dried  fruit,  cooked  and 
seasoned  with  spices.  The  fruit  should  be  sweetened  to  taste. 
Cover  with  a  layer  of  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  dough  and  bake  in 


28      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

a  hot  oven.     Serve  with  a  pudding  sauce  which  may  be  made 
from  the  fruit  juice,  thickening  it  with  cornstarch  or  flour. 


Hot  Cross  Buns 

2%  cupfuls  flour  1  egg 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  4  tablespoonfuls  lard 

%  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  raisins 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  milk 

Sift  together  2  cupfuls  of  the  flour,  ths  baking  powder,  salt 
and  sugar.  Work  in  the  lard  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Break 
the  egg  into  a  cup  and  beat  it  until  light  with  a  fork.  Fill  the 
cup  with  sweet  milk  and  pour  this  on  the  flour  mixture.  Mix 
thoroughly,  add  the  raisins  which  have  been  stirred  into  the  % 
cupful  of  flour,  turn  on  a  floured  board,  roll  I/2  iiich  thick  and 
cut  in  circles.  Place  in  an  oiled  pan  and  bake.  When  almost 
baked,  brush  the  tops  with  slightly  beaten  egg  white. 

When  the  buns  are  cool,  make  a  frosting  by  beating  powdered 
sugar  into  the  white  of  1  egg,  adding  sufficient  sugar  to  make  a 
frosting  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Either  top  these 
buns  with  the  frosting  or  make  a  cross  of  it  on  top  of  every  one. 
To  make  the  cross,  a  piece  of  stiff  paper  may  be  rolled  to  form 
a  cone  and  this  is  filled  half-full  with  the  frosting  which  is 
pressed  out  at  the  small  end. 

Scones 

1  cupful  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  oatmeal  2  cupfuls  milk 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  tablespoonful  sugar 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  the  oat- 
meal. Heat  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  it.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  sifted  flour  and  add  the 
milk  gradually.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll  into  a  thin 
sheet,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 


Cornbread 

1  cupful  cornmeal  1  cupful  sour  milk 

1  cupful  flour  1  tablespoonful  butter 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  egg 

y^  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  soda 


QUICK  BREADS  29 

Sift  the  soda  and  flour  together  and  mix  with  the  dry  in- 
gredients. Beat  egg  and  add  it  to  the  sour  milk  and  the  melted 
butter.  Beat  in  the  dry  ingredients,  pour  into  an  oiled  tin  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  25  minutes. 

Bran  Bread 

2  cupfuls  sour  milk  1  teaspoonful  soda 

3  eggs  2  cupfuls  Graham  flour 

2  cupfuls  bran  1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  cupful  raisins  %  cupful  sugar 

Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly 
and  add  them.  Then  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  and  bake  1 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Chopped  dates  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  raisins  if  one  wishes. 

Lucy's  Walnut  Bread 

3  cupfuls  Graham  flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
3  cupfuls  white  flour  1  cupful  molasses 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  walnut  meats  3  cupfuls  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  the  molasses  in  which 
the  soda  has  been  stirred.  Then  add  the  crushed  and  floured 
walnut  meats  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Pour 
in  oiled  bread  pans  and  bake  45  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  jelly  and  butter. 

Nut  Bread 

3%  cupfuls  white  flour  1  cupful  nuts,  ground 

3^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  egg 

%  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  three  times.  Stir  the  mix- 
ture into  the  milk  in  which  the  beaten  egg  has  been  mixed.  Add 
the  floured  nut  meats  and  pour  in  an  oiled  bread  pan.  Let 
stand  20  minutes.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  from  1  to  li/^  hours. 


/ 


CHAPTEE  5 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

1%  cupfuls  flour  1  egg 

%  teaspoonful  salt  1%  cupfuls  sour  mUk 

%  teaspoonful  soda 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  soda  together  and  add  the  sour  milk 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  griddle  iron 
and  cook  on  one  side.  When  puffed,  full  of  bubbles  and  cooked 
on  the  edges,  turn  and  cook  on  the  other  side.     Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

If  one  wishes  to  use  sweet  milk,  follow  the  recipe  for  sour  milk 
griddle  cakes,  substituting  sweet  milk  and  IV2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  for  the  sour  milk  and  the  soda. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

%  cake  compressed  yeast  1  teaspoonful  melted  butter 

%  cupful  lukewarm  water  1  tablespoonful  molasses 

1  teaspoonful  salt  8  cupfuls  water 

buckwheat  flour 

Break  the  yeast  in  small  pieces  and  soak  in  the  Y2  cupful  of 
lukewarm  water.  Then  put  it  in  a  pitcher  and  add  8  cupfuls 
of  lukewarm  water,  the  salt  and  sufficient  buckwheat  flour  to 
make  a  smooth  pour  batter.  Let  stand  overnight.  In  the 
morning  dip  out  2  cupfuls  of  batter  and  set  aside.  To  the  por- 
tion to  be  used  add  the  molasses  and  melted  butter.  Mix  to- 
gether lightly  and  bake  on  the  griddle. 

If  there  is  batter  left  after  breakfast,  pour  it  into  the  2  cup- 
fuls saved  out  and  set  away.  The  night  before  using  add  2  cup- 
fuls of  lukewarm  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sufficient 
buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  pour  batter.     In  the  morning  add  1 

30 


GEIDDLE  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES  31 

teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 
Stir  in  i/4  teaspoonful  of  soda,  which  has  been  dissolved  first  in 
a  little  cool  water.  In  case  one  wishes  to  use  the  batter  several 
mornings  in  succession,  always  save  out  some  of  the  batter  be- 
fore adding  the  molasses  and  melted  butter. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

1  cupful  buckwheat  flour  1  tablespoonful  shortening 

%  teaspoonful  salt  8  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  1  cupful  cold  water 

%  cupful  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  two  times,  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  mix.    Bake  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  1  egg 

1  tablespoonful  shortening  1  cupful  flour 

1  cupful  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Yq  teaspoonful  salt 

Melt  the  shortening  in  the  heated  rice,  add  the  milk  and  the 
beaten  egg.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  them  to 
the  other  mixture.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  at  once  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes 

3  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  1  cupful  flour 

3  cupfuls  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  salt  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  fat 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  bread  crumbs.  Let  stand  10 
minutes  and  then  beat  to  a  paste.  Add  the  salt,  sugar,  short- 
ening and  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
which  have  been  sifted  together.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  until 
browned  on  both  sides. 


Corn  Cakes 

2  cupfuls  flour  5  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

%  cupful  cornmeal  1%  cupfuls  boiling  water 

1^  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder        1  cupful  milk 
1%  teaspoonfuls  salt  1  egg 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 


32      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  KULE  BOOK 

Add  the  meal  to  the  boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes.  Turn 
into  a  bowl  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  on  a  griddle 
iron. 

Waffles 

2  cupfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda  2  cupfuls  milk 
%  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  yolks 

2  egg  whites 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  gradually  and  stir 
in  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.     Cook  on  a  hot,  well  oiled  waffle  iron. 

Sweet  Milk  Waffles 

1%  cupfuls  flour  1^/^  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cupful  sweet  milk 
%  teaspoonful  salt                                   2  egg  yolks 

2  egg  whites 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  gradually  and 
stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Cook  on  a  hot,  well  oiled  waffle 
iron. 

Rice  Waffles 

iy2  cupfuls  flour  2  egg  yolks 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  whites 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  1^  cupfuls  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the  melted  shortening, 
the  rice,  beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 

Sweet  Potato  Waffles 

1  cupful  mashed  sweet  potatoes  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  milk  %  cupful  butter 

1  egg  1  cupful  flour 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Mix  sweet  potatoes,  milk,  melted  butter,  flour,  sugar,  beaten 
egg  yolk  and  baking  powder  together.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg 
white  and  cook. 


CHAPTER  6 
TOAST 

Dry  Toast 

Cut  bread  that  is  at  least  a  day  old  in  y^  inch  slices.  The 
crust  may  be  removed  if  desired.  Put  the  slices  in  a  wire  toaster 
or  hold  on  a  fork  and  place  over  coals  to  dry  and  bro\sTi.  Hold 
far  enough  from  the  coals  that  the  bread  will  not  burn.  When 
dry  and  a  golden  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the 
other  side.  Bread  may  be  browned  in  the  oven  but  this  gives 
a  harder  toast. 

Milk  Toast 

2  cupfvils  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  8  slices  toast 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  flour  and  butter  which  have  been 
mixed  together  thoroughly.  Add  the  salt  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly,  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Pour  this  hot  sauce 
over  the  toast  which  has  been  buttered  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter. 

French  Toast 

3  eggs  9  slices  bread 
1%  cupfuls  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat'  the  eggs  slightly  and  add  the  milk  and  salt.  Dip  the 
bread  in'  this  mixture  and  brown  quickly  on  both  sides  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  containing  a  little  fat. 

Cinnamon  Toast 

Mix  equal  parts  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  powdered  sugar 
and  sprinkle  generously  over  buttered  toast.    Serve  while  hot. 

33 


34  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Tomato  Toast 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  1%  cupfuls  strained  tomato  pulp 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  ^  teaspoonful  soda 

%  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  scalded  cream 

%  teaspoonful  pepper  8  slices  toast 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  flour  and  salt. 
Gradually  pour  in  the  tomato  which  has  been  dissolved.  Stir 
constantly  and  add  the  scalded  cream.  Pour  the  hot  sauce  over 
the  toast  and  serve  immediately. 


CHAPTER  7 
CAKES 

Cakes  are  divided  into  two  classes,  those  which  contain  butter 
and  those  which  do  not  contain  butter. 

To  be  successful  in  cake  making  the  best  ingredients,  accurate 
measurements  and  the  right  oven  temperatures  must  be  used. 
Loaf  cakes  require  an  oven  warm  enough  to  turn  a  little  flour 
light  brown  in  4  minutes,  or  a  temperature  of  about  350  de- 
grees Fahrenheit.  Layer  and  cup  cakes  require  a  somewhat 
warmer  oven,  a  temperature  of  375  degrees  Fahrenheit,  while 
sponge  cakes  are  best  baked  in  a  slower  oven,  or  one  with  a 
temperature  of  approximately  300  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  a 
thermostat  in  the  oven  door  is  used  to  measure  the  temperature 
instead  of  an  oven  thermometer,  subtract  about  50  degrees  from 
these  temperatures.  A  small  pan  of  water  set  in  one  corner 
of  a  kerosene  or  gas  heated  oven  helps  to  insure  even  baking. 

Baking  Suggestions 

The  time  of  baking  is  divided  into  quarters.  During  the 
first  quarter  the  cake  should  begin  to  rise,  in  the  second  it 
should  continue  to  rise  and  begin  to  brown,  in  the  third  it 
should  continue  to  brown,  and  in  the  fourth  it  should  finish 
browning  and  shrink  from  the  pan. 

Cake  pans  are  oiled  lightly  or  are  lined  with  oiled  paper 
before  the  batter  is  poured  into  them.  The  pans  should  be 
about  three-fourths  full  of  the  batter  which  is  spread  evenly 
toward  the  sides  and  corners.  Cake  is  baked  as  near  the  center 
of  the  oven  as  is  possible. 

Mistakes  to  Avoid 

When  the  cake  breaks  open  on  top,  it  is  a  sign  that  the  oven 
was  too  hot  when  the  batter  was  inserted  or  that  too  much  flour 

35 


36      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

was  used.  A  soggy,  heavy  cake  contains  too  little  flour  and  too 
much  sugar  and  fat.  A  cake  which  runs  over  the  edges  of  the 
pan  contains  too  much  baking  powder  or  it  was  baked  in  an 
oven  that  was  not  hot  enough. 

Since  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  make  substitutions  in  cake 
making,  this  table  of  equivalents  may  be  helpful  ■ 

8  egg  whites  and  1  egg  equal  4  1  cupful  chocolate  equals  %  cup- 
eggs  in  a  cake  ful  butter 

1  cupful  nut  meats  equals  %  cup-  %  to  %  cupful  bread  flour  equals 
ful  butter  1  cupful  pastry  flour 


Plain  Cake 

4  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1%  cupfuls  flour 

1  cupful  sugar  2%  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  eggs  y%  teaspoonful  vanilla 
%  cupful  milk  *%  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  sugar.  Beat 
until  light  and  creamy.  Then  add  the  beaten  ^gg  yolks.  Sift 
the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  them  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Add  salt  and  vanilla,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
^gg  whites  and  pour  the  batter  in  the  tins  for  baking.  This 
may  be  baked  in  layers  or  as  a  loaf. 

Spice  Cake 

Add  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves 

to  the  plain  cake  batter. 

Raisin  Cake 

Add  1/2  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured  raisins  to  the  batter 
for  plain  cake  just  before  the  egg  whites  are  folded  into  the 
mixture. 

Nut  Cake 

Add  %  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured  nut  meats  to  the  plain 
cake  batter  just  before  folding  in  the  ^gg  whites.  Since  the 
plain  cake  is  not  very  rich,  the  amount  of  fat  does  not  need  to  be 
reduced  when  the  nut  meats  are  added. 

Orange  Cake 

Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  orange  peel  to  the  plain  cake 
batter. 


CAKES  37 

Chocolate  Cake 

Add  2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  to  the  plain  cake  batter  just 
before  the  egg  yolks  are  stirred  into  the  sugar  and  butter. 

White  Cake 

y2  cupful  butter  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

ly^  cupfuls  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

%  cupful  milk  6  egg  whites 

2^  cupfuls  flour  ^  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  beat  until  light 
and  creamy.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  them 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  flavoring  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.    Bake  as  a  loaf. 

White  Layer  Cake 

%  cupful  butter  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

IVs  cupfuls  sugar  4  egg  whites 

1  cupful  milk  V4:  teaspoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  flour  1^  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  the  mixture 
is  light.  Then  add  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  the  dry  ingredients 
which  have  been  sifted  together,  then  a  little  milk.  Add  these 
alternately  until  all  are  used,  add  the  vanilla  and  then  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  three  medium-sized  layer 
cake  tins  about  35  minutes. 

Jelly  Roll 

4  eggs  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
1  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  flour 

3  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

14  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  yolks  until  they  are  a  light 
lemon  color.  Add  the  sugar  gradually  and  then  stir  in  the  cold 
water.  Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  cornstarch  and  add  to 
the  cake  mixture.  Stir  in  the  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  in  a  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper, 
spreading  the  batter  in  about  %  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  baked,  turn  out  on  oiled  paper  sprinkled 
with  powdered  sugar  and  remove  the  paper  on  which  it  was 
cooked.    Cut  thin  slices  from  the  edges  of  the  cake^  spread  with 


38      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

jam  or  jelly  and  roll  tightly.  The  work  must  be  done  very 
rapidly  or  the  cake  will  not  roll  neatly.  Wrap  the  oiled  paper 
about  the  cake  so  it  will  not  unroll. 


Gold  Cake 

3  eggs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  V2  teaspoonful  flavoring 

4  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  1  cupful  pastry  flour  or 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  %  to  %  cupful  bread  flour 

4  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating  until  light  and  foamy.  Stir 
in  the  sugar  and  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  the  cold  water  and 
beat  again.  Sift  together  the  pastry  or  bread  flour,  baking  pow- 
der and  salt.  Add  this  to  the  cake  mixture  and  beat  again. 
When  light  pour  in  the  melted  butter  and  flavoring  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


Feather  Cake 

Break  2  large  eggs  into  a  cup  and  then  fill  the  cup  with  cream. 
Beat  this  mixture  thoroughly  and  then  beat  in  1  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  11/4  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  %  teaspoonful  of  flavoring 
extract.  Bake  in  a  slightly  hotter  oven  than  one  uses  for  butter 
cakes. 

Rachel's  Dark  Cake 

%  cupful  grated  chocolate  1  cupful  brown  sugar 

%  cupful  milk 

Combine  these  ingredients  and  cook  together  until  thick  and 
smooth.    Set  away  to  cool. 

Part  Two 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  1  cupful  sweet  milk 
%  cupful  butter                                       2  cupfuls  flour 

2  eggs  1  scant  teaspoonful  soda 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light  and 
creamy.  Add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Sift  the  flour  and  soda 
together  and  add  this  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.    Then 


CAKES  39 

stir  in  the  cooled  chocolate  mixture,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  and  bake  as  a  loaf  or  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven. 


1 


Aunt  Nellie's  Cake 

cupful  drippings  1  teaspoonful  salt 

cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

%  cupful  molasses  1  egg 

^  cupful  sour  milk  %  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  teaspoonful  soda  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

2  cupfuls  flour  %  cupful  raisins 

24  English  walnuts 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  meat  drippings  and  beat  thoroughly 
with  a  spoon.  Then  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolk  and  the 
molasses  in  which  the  soda,  first  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  has 
been  stirred.  Sift  the  flour  and  add  the  salt,  spices,  chopped 
raisins  and  nutmeats'.  Add  this  mixture  alternately  with  the 
milk.    Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.    Bake  as  a  loaf. 

English  Cake 

1  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  allspice 
5  eggs  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  cupful  black  coffee  3^  cupfuls  flour 

1  teaspoonful  soda  1  pound  raisins 

1  pound  currants 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  spoon  and  stir  in  the  sugar,  beating 
thoroughly.  Then  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  Divide  the 
flour  into  two  parts  and  to  one  add  the  soda  and  to  the  other 
add  the  spices,  raisins  and  currants.  Add  these  flour  mixtures 
alternately  with  the  coffee  infusion.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites  and  bake  in  two  loaves. 


Sour  Milk  Cake 

Vo  cupful  butter  %  cupful  sour  milk 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar  i^  cupful  cold  water 

2  squares  chocolate  21^  cupfuls  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  soda 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  the  mixture  is 
creamy  and  light,  then  add  the  chocolate  which  has  been  melted 
over  hot  water.  Stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Sift  the  flour 
and  soda  together  and  add  to  the  batter  alternately  with  the 


40      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

milk  and  water.    Bake  in  layers  and  use  brown  sugar  filling  be- 
tween the  layers  and  a  chocolate  icing  on  top. 


Caramel  Cake 

4  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  caramelized  sugar 

4  cupful  butter  1%  cupfuls  flour 

1  egg  iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

%  cupful  water  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 


1 


Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  granulated  sugar.  Beat  until 
light  and  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolk.  Caramelize  the  sugar  by 
melting  it  in  a  frying  pan  without  adding  water  and  stirring 
constantly  until  the  mass  is  a  light  golden  brown.  Dissolve  this 
in  the  water.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together  and 
add  this  mixture  alternately  with  the  water  in  which  the  cara- 
melized sugar  has  been  dissolved.  Add  the  vanilla  and  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Bake  in  a  loaf  and  ice  with  a  burnt 
sugar  icing. 

Spice  Cake 

6  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1  cupful  raisins 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Vs  cupful  granulated  sugar  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  eggs  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
%  cupful  coffee  infusion  %  teaspoonful  cloves 
1%  cupfuls  flour  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

Cream  the  shortening  and  beat  until  light.  Add  the  sugar 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the 
raisins  and  then  combine  the  egg  yolks  with  the  left-over  coffee. 
Alternately  add  the  flour  and  the  coffee  mixture.  Fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  bake  in  a  loaf  45  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Apple  Cake 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  cocoa 

%  cupful  apple  sauce  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

%  cupful  sour  cream  %  teaspoonful  cloves 

1%  teaspoonfuls  soda  1  cupful  raisins 

2  cupfuls  flour 

Mix  the  sugar,  sour  cream  and  the  apple  sauce  together  and 
add  the  soda  to  this  mixture.  Stir  in  the  other  ingredients, 
chopping  and  flouring  the  raisins. 


CAKES  41 

Ruth's  Boiled  Cake 

^2  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  flour 

4  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 
3  eggs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  the  syrup  thus  made 
forms  a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Beat  the  egg  whites 
until  stiff  and  dry.  Pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them,  beating  con- 
stantly until  cold.  Then  stir  in  the  egg  yolks,  beaten  until  light 
and  lemon  colored.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  them 
gradually.  Pour  in  oiled  tins,  or  better  still  in  tins  lined  with 
oiled  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  This  re- 
quires about  20  or  25  minutes. 

Hannali's  Tea  Cake 

2  cupfuls  butter  juice  of  1  lemon 

3  cupfuls  brown  sugar  4^4  cupfuls  flour 

5  eggs  1  teaspoonful  soda 
1  cupful  milk  1/4  teaspoonful  salt 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon  1  pound  raisins 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  citron 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Then 
stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  grated  lemon  rind.  Sift 
the  flour,  salt  and  soda  together  and  add  this  mixture  alter- 
nately wdth  the  milk.  Then  add  the  nutmeg,  vanilla,  lemon 
juice,  chopped  raisins  and  the  citron  slightly  floured  and  fold 
in  the  stififly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  two  loaves  and  ice  with 
a  white  icing. 

Angel  Food 

1  cupful  egg  whites  %  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

1  cupful  sugar  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  flour  speck  of  salt 

Beat  the  egg  whites  to  a  froth,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and 
continue  beating  until  stiff.  Sift  the  sugar  and  flour  5  times. 
Beat  in  the  sugar  gradually.  Fold  in  the  flour,  salt  and  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  clean  tin  about  45  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


42  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Sponge  Cake 

4  eggs  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  boiling  water 

2  cupfuls  flour  speck  of  salt 

grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Beat  the  egg  whites  until  dry  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg 
yolks.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture  alternately  with  the  water  and  grated  lemon  rind. 
Bake  in  an  oiled  tin  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the  center, 
or  about  30  minutes. 


Cheap  Sponge  Cake 

2  eggs  1  tablespoonful  grated  lemon  rind 

1  cupful  sugar  1%  cupfuls  flour 

5  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  they  are  a  light  lemon  color,  add  the 
sugar  and  continue  beating.  Gradually  add  the  water  and  lemon 
rind.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  to  the  batter 
and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  an  unbuttered 
tin  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Gingerbread 

1  cupful  shortening  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cupful  molasses  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  cinnamon  2%  cupfuls  flour 

^  teaspoonful  cloves  1  teaspoonful  soda 

^  teaspoonful  nutmeg  1  cupful  sour  milk  or  buttermilk 

Combine  the  shortening,  sugar,  molasses  and  spices.  Place 
in  a  mixing  bowl  and  set  in  a  warm  place  near  the  range  until 
the  shortening  is  softened.  Then  beat  the  mixture  with  a  spoon 
until  it  is  light  and  creamy.  Add  the  salt  and  eggs  beaten  until 
light.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  soda  which  have  been  sifted  together 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Beat  or  whip  the  batter  until  light, 
then  pour  into  oiled  pans  and  bake  45  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  cool,  ice  with  a  thick  white  icing.  This  recipe 
makes  two  loaves  and  gives  best  results  when  a  dark  colored 
molasses  and  sugar  are  used. 


CAKES  43 

CoflFee  Gingerbread 

Substitute  1  cupful  of  strong  liquid  coffee  for  the  milk  in  the 
gingerbread  recipes.  Sprinkle  a  little  powdered  cinnamon  and 
sugar  over  the  batter  just  before  placing  it  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

Chocolate  Gingerbread 

Omit  Yo  cupful  of  flour  in  the  gingerbread  recipe  and  use  % 
cupful  of  cocoa  instead.    Cover  with  a  Mocha  icing. 

Fruit  Gingerbread 

Add  1  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  raisins,  currants,  dates  or 
cooked  prunes  to  the  gingerbread  batter. 

Cup  Cakes 

%  cupful  shortening  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  cupfuls  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

4  eggs  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

3  cupfuls  flour  %  cupful  milk 

1^  cupfuls  raisins 

Cream  the  shortening  and  add  the  sugar  slowly,  beating  the 
mixture  until  light  and  creamy.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  them  and  the  milk 
alternately.  Add  the  raisins  dredged  lightly  in  the  flour.  Pour 
into  oiled  muffin  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  25  to  30 
minutes. 


CHAPTER  8 

COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS 

Plain  Cookies 

1  cupful  shortening  2  eggs 

2  cupfuls  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
1^  cupful  milk  4  cupfuls  flour 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  sugar  and  the  eggs  well  beaten. 
Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  and  add  to  the  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Chill.  Add  additional  flour  if 
needed  in  rolling  the  dough.  Bake  in  a  slightly  oiled,  pan  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Jelly  Jumbles 

Use  the  recipe  for  plain  cookies.  After  cutting  the  dough, 
remove  the  centers  from  half  of  the  circles  with  a  thimble. 
Place  a  spoonful  of  jam  or  jelly  on  the  whole  cookies  and  cover 
with  one  having  the  whole  in  the  center.  Moisten  the  edges 
slightly  and  press  together.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cooky  Delights 

%  cupful  shortening  i/4  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  milk 

2  eggs  grated  rind  of  1  orange  or 
2  cupfuls  flour  %:  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1  cupful  raisins 

Cream  the  shortening  and  add  the  sugar.  Beat  until  light  and 
creamy.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  shortening.  Stir  in  the 
raisins,  grated  orange  peel  or  nutmeg  and  the  milk.  If  the  mix- 
ture is  not  thick  enough  to  roll,  add  more  flour.  EoU  very  thin, 
cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  10  to  15  minutes. 

44 


COOKIES  Al^D  DOUGH^^UTS  45 

Hermits 

iy2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  shortening  1  teaspoonful  allspice 

3  eggs  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

3  cupfuls  flour  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  %  teaspoonful  soda 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1%  cupfuls  raisins 

Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light. 
Add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  sift  in  the  dry  ingredients.  Add 
the  raisins  and  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  on  a  well  greased 
tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  20  to  25  minutes. 


Date  Cookies 

4  cupfuls  flour  2  eggs 

2  cupfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  soda 

1^  cupfuls  sour  cream  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  V2  teaspoonful  salt 

dates 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the 
sugar  and  cream  to  them.  Combine  the  two  mixtures.  Drop  in 
small  patches  on  oiled  tins^  press  whole  stoned  dates  or  four 
raisins  on  top  of  every  cooky,  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and 
bake. 

Festive  Cookies 

3  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 
1^  cupfuls  shortening  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

5  egg  yolks  IVo  teaspoonfuls  cloves 

4  egg  whites  %  pound  raisins 
1^  cupfuls  molasses  %  pound  currants 
1%  cupfuls  coffee  %  pound  citron 

1  teaspoonful  salt  6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

6  cupfuls  flour 

Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together 
and  add  them  alternately  with  the  molasses  and  coffee  infusion. 
Then  stir  in  the  slightly  floured  raisins,  currants  and  chopped 
citron.  Bake  in  tiny  muffin  tins  or  in  a  large  dripping  pan, 
cutting  with  cutters  after  being  baked.  These  cookies  keep  well 
for  many  weeks  if  stored  in  a  tightly  covered  earthenware  jar. 
They  are  especially  delicious  when  covered  with  a  white  frosting. 
They  are  baked  in  a  slow  oven. 


46  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Ginger  Cookies 

1  cupful  fat  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  cupful  molasses  3  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk 

%  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  teaspoonful  salt  4%  cupfuls  flour 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  molasses,  then  the  salt, 
ginger  and  milk.  Sift  2  cupfuls  of  the  flour  and  soda  together 
and  mix  into  the  molasses  mixture.  Then  gradually  add  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  mixture  that  can  be  rolled  out.  Roll  very 
thin,  cut  in  any  desired  shape  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
10  minutes.  If  one  wishes,  little  men  and  women  may  be  cut 
from  this  dough  with  cutters.  Bits  of  nut  meats,  raisins,  cur- 
rants and  white  icing  may  be  used  to  make  features,  buttons  and 
clothes. 

Mary's  Gingersnaps 

2  cupfuls  molasses  1  tablespoonful  ginger 
1  cupful  shortening                                   2  eggs 

%  cupful  sour  milk  1%  teaspoonfuls  soda 

flour  to  make  a  soft  dough 

Mix  the  molasses  and  shortening  together  and  heat  until  the 
fat  is  melted.  When  cool  add  the  beaten  egg,  1  cupful  of  flour 
in  which  the  gmger  and  soda  have  been  sifted  and  the  sour  milk. 
Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  thin,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cut. 

Raisin  Cookies 

1  cupful  shortening  1  teaspoonful  soda 

2  cupfuls  sugar  %  cupful  warm  water 

3  eggs  flour 

%  pound  chopped  raisins  1  cupful  nut  meats 

Cream  the  butter  or  other  shortening,  add  the  sugar  gradu- 
ally, beating  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  the  eggs  without  separating 
them.  Stir  in  the  soda  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  warm 
water.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Stir  in  the 
floured  and  chopped  raisins  and  nuts.    Roll  and  bake. 

Oatmeal  Rocks 

1  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  chopped  raisins 
%  cupful  butter  1  cupful  milk 

1^  cupful  lard  1  cupful  nuts 

2  eggs  2  cupfuls  flour 

2  cupfuls  oatmeal  1  teaspoonful  soda 


COOKIES  AXD  DOUGHNTTTS  47 

Cream  the  butter  and  lard  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  sugar. 
Beat  until  light  and  creamy.  Then  stir  in  the  well  beaten  eggs 
and  add  to  the  oatmeal.  Sift  the  flour  and  soda  together  and 
add  to  it  the  chopped  raisins  and  nut  meats.  Add  this  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Drop  spoonfuls  of  the  batter  in  oiled 
pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Vanilla  Wafers 

%  cupful  butter  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

l' cupful  powdered  sugar  %  cupful  milk 

1%  cupfuls  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  then  drop  the  milk  in 
slowly.  If  the  mixture  starts  to  separate,  beat.  Add  the  flour 
and  the  flavoring.  Spread  thinly  in  the  bottom  of  a  cake  tin 
which  has  been  oiled  and  crease  in  squares  with  a  knife.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 


Potato  Doughnuts 

4  medium  sized  potatoes  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  cupfuls  sugar 

4  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Add  butter,  beaten  eggs,  sugar 
and  salt.  Mix  the  baking  powder  with  2  cupfuls  of  flour  and 
add  to  the  mixture.  Add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  dough 
stiff  enough  to  roll  I/2  inch  thick.  Cut  and  fry.  Drain  and  roll 
in  powdered  sugar. 


Crullers 

6  eggs  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

6  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening        flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light.  Add  sugar,  shortening,  and  flour. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  roll  very  thin.  Cut  in  strips  3  inches  long 
and  2  inches  wide.  Make  three  one-inch  parallel  gashes  cross- 
wise at  equal  intervals.  Take  up  by  running  the  handle  of  a 
spoon  in  and  out  of  the  gashes.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 


48  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Fancy  Doughnuts 

1  cupful  granulated  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  squares  chocolate  3  cupfuls  flour 

1  egg  %  cupful  nut  meats 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  milk  grated   rind   of    i/^   orange 

Beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together  with  a  spoon  and  add  the 
unsweetened  chocolate  which  has  been  melted  over  hot  water. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  saving  out  a  little  flour  to  mix 
with  the  chopped  nut  meats.  Add  the  flour  mixture  alternately 
with  the  milk  and  then  stir  in  the  nuts  and  grated  orange  and 
lemon  rind.    Roll,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Doughnuts 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  i/^  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  egg  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  1  cupful  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Stir  in 
the  well  beaten  egg  and  the  sweet  milk.  Sift  the  baking  powder, 
salt  and  cinnamon  with  1%  cupfuls  of  flour  and  stir  this  mix- 
ture in,  adding  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  % 
inch  thick  and  cut.  Fry,  drain  and  when  partly  cool,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Sour  Milk  Doughnuts 

2y2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  soda 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  eggs  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  sour  milk  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough 

Cream  the  butter,,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Stir  in 
the  well  beaten  egg  and  alternately  add  the  sour  milk  and  1% 
cupfuls  of  flour  in  which  the  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon  have  been 
sifted.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  %  iiich 
thick,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain  and  when  somewhat  cool, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Overnight  Cookies 

3  cupfuls  dark  brown  sugar  %  cupful  lard 
1  cupful  granulated  sugar                      6  cupfuls  flour 

4  eggs  1  tablespoonful  soda 

%  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  cream  of  tartar 

%  cupful  butter  1  tablespoonful  vanilla 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS  49 

Cream  the  sugars,  butter  and  lard  together  until  light.  Add 
the  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla.  Sift  in  the  salt,  flour,  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar.  Mold  in  a  loaf  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place, 
such  as  a  refrigerator,  overnight.  Slice  off  in  the  morning  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Do  not  let  the  loaf  freeze  durmg  the 
night. 


CHAPTER  9 

CEEEALS 

Most  cereals  are  at  their  best  when  cooked  slowly  several  hours 
in  a  double  boiler.  When  this  utensil  is  not  available,  a  small 
saucepan  set  in  a  kettle  containing  water  may  be  used.  The 
fireless  cooker  is  well  adapted  to  the  cookery  of  cereals,  since  the 
cooking  can  take  place  during  the  night  so  the  food  will  be  ready 
for  breakfast  in  the  morning.  Cereals  cooked  the  day  before 
they  are  to  be  used  should  not  be  stirred  when  being  reheated 
over  hot  water  at  breakfast  time.  If  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water  are  poured  on  top  of  the  cooked  cereal,  no  crust  will  form 
during  the  standing. 

Directions  for  Cooking 

Add  1/2  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  every  cupful  of  boiling  water 
used.  Stir  i/o  cupful  of  whole  or  cracked  cereal,  such  as  cracked 
wheat  or  barley,  macaroni,  rice  and  hominy,  into  2  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water  and  cook  on  the  stove  10  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Then  transfer  to  a  double  boiler  and  cook  from  1  to  3 
hours. 

Use  1  cupful  of  flaked  cereal,  such  as  oatmeal  or  flaked  wheat, 
in  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and  cook  on  the  stove  10  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Then  transfer  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook 
from  1/^  to  3  hours. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  granular  cereal,  of  which  cornmeal 
and  cream  of  wheat,  rye  or  barley  are  examples,  are  used  in  1 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Cook  on  the  stove  15  minutes,  stirring 
constantly,  and  then  cook  from  1  to  4  hours  in  a  double  boiler. 

Fruits  Are  Added 

For  the  sake  of  variety  fruits  may  be  cooked  with  the  cereal. 
Quartered  dates,  chopped  figs,  raisins,  shredded  prunes  and  quar- 
tered apples  are  some  of  the  favorites. 

50 


CEEEALS  51 

Boiled  Rice 

1  cupful  rice  IVo  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  quart  water 

Place  the  water  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  salt  and  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  WTien  the  water  is  boiling  rapidly,  add  the  thor- 
oughly washed  rice  slowly,  stirring  gently  with  a  fork.  When 
all  the  rice  is  added,  let  it  boil  until  the  kernels  are  tender. 
Then  drain  it  through  a  sieve  and  pour  cold  water  on  the  rice 
to  separate  the  kernels.  Place  the  cold  rice  in  a  colander  or 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  warm  if  it  is  to  be 
served  hot.  One  cupful  of  rice  when  cooked  will  measure  almost 
4  cupfuls. 

Boiled  Macaroni 

Break  the  macaroni  in  one  inch  pieces  and  cook  as  boiled  rice. 

Browned  Macaroni 

Heat  1/4  cupful  of  bacon  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  3  cupfuls 
of  boiled  macaroni.  Brown  until  crisp  and  serve  sprinkled  with 
brown  sugar. 

Baked  Macaroni 

Place  3  cupfuls  of  boiled  macaroni  in  an  oiled  baking  dish  and 
add  %  pimento  chopped  fine  and  a  white  sauce  made  by  thick- 
ening 1  cupful  of  milk  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Sprinkle 
%  cupful  of  grated  cheese  over  the  top  and  add  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.    Bake  in  a  slow^  oven  until  the  cheese  is  brown. 


Spanish  Spaghetti 

Fry  3  slices  of  bacon  and  to  them  add  2  cupfuls  of  spaghetti, 
boiled  in  the  same  way  as  macaroni,  2  finely  chopped  onions  and 
1  green  pepper  cut  in  pieces.  After  simmering  for  10  minutes, 
add  2  cupfuls  of  canned  tomatoes.  Place  alternate  layers  of  this 
mixture  and  any  cold  chopped  meat  in  an  oiled  baking  dish. 
Add  1  cupful  of  milk  and  dot  the  top  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.     Bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


52  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Macaroni  with  Salmon 

1  cupful  boiled  macaroni  2  cupfuls  milk 

1  cupful  canned  salmon  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  tablespoonful  oil  from  salmon  dash  of  red  pepper 

%  cupful  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  the  macaroni  and  flaked  salmon 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Prepare  a  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour 
and  butter.  Pour  over  the  salmon  and  macaroni.  Sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes 
or  until  the  crumbs  are  browned  delicately. 

Italian  Macaroni 

1  cupful  macaroni  1  cupful  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  V2  teaspoonful  salt 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %=  teaspoon  paprika 

1%  cupfuls  scalded  milk  %  cupful  cooked  and  chopped  ham 

Break  the  macaroni  in  1  inch  pieces  and  cook  in  1  quart  of 
boiling  salted  water.  When  tender,  drain  and  reheat  in  a  sauce 
made  from  the  milk,  butter  and  flour.  Add  the  cheese  to  the 
hot  sauce.  When  it  is  melted,  add  the  salt,  paprika  and  the  ham. 
Turn  on  a  platter  and  serve  immediately.  If  one  wishes,  the 
ham  may  be  used  to  sprinkle  on  top  of  the  macaroni  dish. 

Macaroni  with  Pork  Chops 

2  cupfuls  macaroni  1  teaspoonful  salt 

4  large  pork  chops  M  teaspoonful  pepper 

4  cupfuls  tomatoes  dash  of  paprika 

Cook  1  inch  pieces  of  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain.  Cut  the  pork  chops  in  small  pieces,  put  them 
in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  the  macaroni,  sea- 
sonings and  the  canned  tomatoes.    Cook  10  minutes. 

Hominy  en  Casserole 

2  cupfuls  cooked  hominy  1%  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1%  cupfuls  milk  l^  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Drain  the  hominy  and  add  to  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  until 
light,  add  them  to  the  milk  mixture,  stir  in  the  seasonings  and 
bake  in  a  greased  baking  dish  until  brown  on  top. 


CEEEALS  53 

Mush  Sticks 

2  cupfuls  boiling  water  %  cupful  cornmeal 

1  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  seeded  raisins 

1^  cupful  left-over  meat 

Add  the  cornmeal  gradually  to  the  boiling  salted  water  and 
stir  continually  for  5  minutes.  Then  place  the  mixture  in  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  I14  hours.  Add  the  chopped  seeded 
raisins  and  small  bits  of  left-over  meat.  Pour  into  a  shallow 
pan  and  cool.  When  firm,  cut  in  long,  narrow  strips,  dip  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  fat.  Serve  with  syrup  for 
breakfast  or  supper. 

Rice  Patties 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  1  cupful  flour 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  add  the  milk,  rice,  salt,  melted  butter 
and  flour.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  form  in 
round  cakes.    Brown  in  hot  fat. 


Spanish  Rice 

2  thin  slices  bacon  2  cupfuls  tomatoes 

1  onion  V2  teaspoonful  chili  pepper 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  cupfuls  boiled  rice 

1  ^gg 

Cut  bacon  in  small  pieces  with  the  onion  and  fry  until  hot 
and  slightly  browned.  Add  the  boiled  rice  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  is  a  little  brown.  Add  the  canned  tomatoes,  chili  pepper 
and  salt.  When  piping  hot,  place  in  a  serving  dish  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  cooked  egg. 

Rice  with  Cheese 

3  cupfuls  boiled  rice  IM:  cupfuls  cheese 

3  egg  whites  li^  tablespoonfuls  butter 

bread  crumbs  1  cupful  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Place  the  rice  in  a  mixing  bowl  and  beat  with  a  spoon  until 
light.  The  rice  should  be  warm.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  and  beat  these  together.  Grease  a  baking  dish  and  sprin- 
kle a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs  over  the  bottom.    Then  place 


54      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

one-third  of  the  rice  in  the  dish.  Sprinkle  with  one-third  of 
the  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  a  few  bread 
crumbs.  Eepeat  until  three  such  layers  are  made.  Then  add 
the  milk  and  salt  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes. 

Rice,  Country  Style 

3  cupfuls  cooked  rice  3  eggs 

1  cupful  bacon  Vi  teaspoonful  pepper 

y2  teaspoonful  salt 

Cut  the  bacon  in  small  pieces  before  measuring,  then  fry  it 
until  crisp.  Then  pour  off  about  half  of  the  fat  and  place  the 
bacon  on  a  small  dish  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Beat  the  eggs 
thoroughly  and  combine  them  with  the  rice;  add  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Turn  in  the  skillet  with  the  bacon  fat  and  scramble. 
Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  the  bacon. 


CHAPTER  10 
CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 

The  secret  of  successful  candy  making  is  to  keep  the  syrup 
from  crystallizing.  Several  precautions  may  be  heeded  to  ac- 
complish this.  First  of  all,  boil  the  sugar  and  liquid  together  in 
a  thick  kettle  or  saucepan. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  then  cook  without  moving 
or  shaking  the  kettle  containing  the  boiling  syrup.  Wipe  off 
the  crystals  of  sugar  that  form  on  the  sides  of  the  kettle  with  a 
cloth  moistened  in  water  and  tied  over  the  tines  of  a  fork.  If 
one  wishes,  a  few  drops  of  any  acid,  such  as  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  may  be  added  to  prevent  crystallization.  Cream  of  tartar 
may  also  be  used  for  this  purpose.  If  the  candy  contains  grains, 
add  water  to  soften  it  and  reboil. 

Testing  Candy 

If  one  has  a  candy  thermometer,  it  is  easy  to  determine  when 
the  candy  is  cooked.  The  soft  ball  stage  is  reached  when  the 
thermometer  registers  from  236  to  240  degrees  F. ;  the  hard  ball 
at  254  degrees  F. ;  the  soft  crack  at  260  degrees  F. ;  and  the  hard 
crack  at  290  degrees  F. 

Without  a  thermometer  the  tests  are  made  by  dropping  a 
small  portion  of  the  boiling  syrup  from  the  spoon  into  a  cupful 
of  cold  water.  If  the  mixture  makes  up  into  a  soft  ball,  it  is 
the  soft  ball  stage ;  if  it  forms  a  rather  hard  ball,  it  is  the  hard 
ball  stage;  if  the  mixture  becomes  crisp  and  too  hard  to  form  a 
hard  ball  when  crushed  between  the  fingers,  it  is  the  soft  crack 
stage;  and  if  it  cracks  or  breaks  when  crushed  between  the  fin- 
gers, the  hard  crack  stage  is  reached. 

To  Caxamelize  Sugar 

When  caramelized  sugar  is  called  for  in  a  recipe,  it  may  be 
prepared  by  placing  granulated  sugar  in  a  frying  pan  and  melt- 

55 


56      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

ing  it  on  the  stove  without  the  addition  of  water.  The  sugar 
must  be  stirred  constantly  while  being  melted.  When  it  be- 
comes a  light  brown,  or  a  golden  brown,  mass,  it  is  caramelized. 
Caramelized  syrup  is  made  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  together 
beyond  the  hard  crack  stage  or  until  the  syrup  becomes  a  golden 
brown.  The  main  precaution  to  heed  in  this  process  is  to  stir 
the  syrup  and  to  remove  it  from  the  stove  as  soon  as  it  is  cara- 
melized, in  this  way  avoiding  all  traces  of  scorch. 

Peppermint  Circles 

%  cupful  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

5  drops  oil  of  peppermint 

Stir  the  ingredients  together  and  place  on  the  stove.  When 
the  sugar  begins  to  melt,  stir  for  several  minutes.  Drop  small 
spoonfuls  of  the  syrup  on  oiled  paper. 

Cocoanut  Candy 

1^  cupfuls  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

14  cupful  milk  %  cupful  shredded  cocoanut 

Boil  the  sugar  and  milk  together  until  they  form  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Add  the  butter  and  cocoanut.  Boil 
3  minutes  and  pour  into  an  oiled  pan.  Mark  in  squares.  Soak 
the  cocoanut  in  a  little  milk  before  using. 

Maple  Squares 

2%  cupfuls  maple  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  cupful  water  %  cupful  nut  meats 

%  pound  marshmallows  %  cupful  preserved  fruit 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from 
the  stove  and  add  the  marshmallows,  nuts,  preserved  or  candied 
fruit  and  the  vanilla.  Beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  harden. 
Pour  into  oiled  pans  and  mark  in  squares. 

Caramel  Squares 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  corn  syrup 

3  cupfuls  thin  cream 

Put  the  sugar  and  syrup  in  a  saucepan  and  add  1  cupful  of 
the  cream.    Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook  to  the  soft  ball 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  57 

stage.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  burning,  but  do  not  beat. 
When  the  soft  ball  stage  is  reached,  add  a  second  cupful  of  cream 
and  cook  again  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  a  few  drops  are 
tried  in  cold  water.  Then  add  the  third  cupful  of  cream.  Cook 
until  a  firm  ball  is  made  when  a  little  of  the  syrup  is  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Pour  the  hot  syrup  in  oiled  pans  and  mark  off  in 
squares.  One  cupful  of  nut  meats  or  shredded  cocoanut  may  be 
added  to  the  caramel  syrup  just  before  it  is  poured  into  the  pans. 
If  this  candy  is  packed,  wrap  every  piece  in  oiled  paper. 

Peanut  Brittle 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  shelled  peanuts 

Melt  the  sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  stirring  constantly  until  the 
mixture  is  a  golden  brown  syrup.  Remove  from  the  stove 
immediately,  stir  in  the  chopped  peanuts  and  pour  on  a  well  oiled 
platter.    When  cold,  break  in  pieces  with  the  handle  of  a  knife. 

Layer  Candy 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  milk  %  cupful  nut  meats 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  fruit  preserves 
2  squares  chocolate  speck  of  salt 

Boil  the  sugar  and  milk  together  until  a  rather  firm  ball  is 
formed  w^hen  a  small  portion  of  the  syrup  is  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Add  the  chocolate  which  has  been  melted  over  hot  water, 
the  nut  meats,  salt  and  vanilla.  Eemove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  creamy.  Then  pour  in  an  oiled  pan.  Spread  generously 
with  raspberry,  strawberry  and  other  fruit  preserves. 

Part  Two 

1  cupful  sugar  1  egg  white 

1  cupful  water  %  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  together  until  the 
hard  ball  stage  is  reached.  Then  pour  the  hot  syrup  slowly  on 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white,  beating  constantly.  Beat  until  the 
mixture  is  light  and  foamy  and  then  pour  it  on  the  candy  covered 
with  the  fruit  preserves.    When  cold,  cut  in  squares. 


58  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Chocolate  Squares 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  milk 

1  square  chocolate  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Boil  the  sugar  and  milk  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Do  not  stir 
during  the  cooking,  that  is,  not  after  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Just 
before  taking  the  mixture  from  the  stove,  add  the  chocolate  and 
butter  which  have  been  melted  over  hot  water.  Cool;  then  beat 
until  thick.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  mark  in  squares.  If 
one  wishes,  %  cupful  of  nut  meats  may  be  added. 

Taffy 

2  cupfuls  corn  syrup  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

Stir  the  ingredients  together  and  cook  until  the  soft  or  hard 
crack  stage  is  reached.  Chewing  taffy  is  cooked  to  the  soft  crack 
stage  and  hard  taffy  to  the  hard  crack.  Pour  on  a  buttered 
platter.  When  cool,  pull  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Cut  in 
pieces  with  scissors. 

Sugar  Taffy 

2  cupfuls  sugar  -    %  cupful  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  boil  until  the  soft  or  hard  crack 
stage  is  reached.  Stir  while  cooking  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Turn  on  a  buttered  platter  to  cool.  When  cold  enough  to  handle, 
pull  until  porous  and  white.    Cut  in  pieces  with  scissors. 

Butter  Scotch 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

4  tablespoonfuls  molasses  2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water 

%  cupful  butter 

Stir  the  ingredients  together  and  cook^  without  stirring,  to  the 
hard  crack  stage.  Turn  into  a  buttered  tin.  When  partly  cool, 
mark  in  squares,  or  break  into  pieces  wdth  the  handle  of  a  knife 
when  the  candy  is  cold. 

Divinity  Delicious 

1^  cupfuls  brown  sugar  1  egg  white 

%  cupful  corn  syrup  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  cupful  boiling  water  1  cupful  nut  meats 


CANDIES  AXD  CONFECTIONS  59 

Cook  syrup,  sugar  and  water  to  240  degrees  Fahrenheit  or 
until  the  syrup  forms  a  rather  firm  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Pour  a  part  of  this  on  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white, 
beating  constantly.  Return  the  rest  of  the  syrup  to  the  stove 
and  cook  to  260  degrees  F.  or  to  the  soft  crack  stage.  Pour  this 
on  the  egg  white  mixture  slowly,  beating  all  the  time.  Add  the 
vanilla  and  nuts.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  so  it 
cannot  be  beaten,  pour  it  into  a  pan  lined  with  oiled  paper. 
When  nearly  cold,  remove  from  the  pan  and  cut  in  squares. 


Fairyland  Fondant 

2y2  pounds  sugar  ^4  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

1^  cupfuls  water  flavoring 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  slowly,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  bring  quickly  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  cease  stirring.  Boil  until  the 
syrup  forms  a  rather  firm  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Then  wipe  the  sides  of  the  pan  with  a  fork,  having  the  tines 
wrapped  with  a  moistened  cloth.  Pour  the  candy  quickly  on  a 
moistened  platter ;  the  platter  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water  and 
not  dried.  Do  not  let  the  syrup  drain  from  the  pan  but  pour 
quickly.  Cool  until  the  mixture  is  lukewarm.  Then  stir  with  a 
knife  until  it  is  creamy  and  white.  Form  into  a  large  ball  with 
the  hands,  place  in  an  earthen  jar  or  crock  and  cover  with  a 
dampened  cloth.    It  may  be  left  overnight  or  molded  right  away. 

When  ready  to  mold  the  candy,  rub  some  powdered  sugar  on 
the  hands  so  the  work  may  be  done  quickly.  Work  any  desired 
flavoring,  such  as  vanilla,  lemon,  orange,  clove,  peppermint  and 
wintergreen  into  the  fondant,  color  with  a  vegetable  coloring  if 
white  candy  is  not  desired,  and  mold  in  small  pieces.  Nut  meats, 
candied  fruits,  dates  or  raisins  may  be  used  as  centers. 


Mints 

Melt  some  of  the  fondant  over  hot  water,  flavor  with  a  few 
drops  of  oil  of  peppermint,  wintergreen,  cinnamon,  clove  or 
orange  and  color  delicately  if  desired.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  to 
oiled  paper.     These  mints  may  be  dipped  in  chocolate  when  cold. 


60  THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Bonbons 

Prepare  the  centers  for  bonbons  by  adding  flavoring,  chopped 
nuts,  candied  fruit  or  any  coloring  desired  to  fondant.  Shape 
this  into  balls  and  let  stand  overnight.  Nuts,  candied  cherries  or 
other  fruits  may  be  used  as  the  centers  if  one  wishes. 

To  make  the  chocolate  for  dipping,  cut  a  %  pound  cake  of 
dipping  or  coating  chocolate  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  the 
upper  part  of  a  double  boiler.  Do  not  let  the  water  below  it  boil. 
To  the  chocolate  add  1  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  olive  oil  or 
any  good  salad  oil.  When  the  chocolate  is  melted,  pour  a  part 
of  it  in  a  shallow  dish.  If  you  have  a  candy  thermometer,  insert 
it  in  the  chocolate  and  let  the  mass  cool  to  80  degrees  F.,  manip- 
ulating the  mixture  all  the  time  with  the  fingers.  This  distrib- 
utes the  butter  or  oil  throughout  the  chocolate,  making  it  smooth 
and  glossy.  When  the  chocolate  begins  to  harden  a  little  on  the 
sides  of  the  dish,  it  is  time  to  dip  the  candies,  and  this  work 
should  be  done  quickly. 

Roll  the  center  in  the  chocolate,  pick  it  up  with  the  thumb  and 
first  finger  and  rub  oif  the  surplus  chocolate  with  the  other  hand. 
Place  on  a  pan  covered  with  oiled  paper,  bringing  the  fingers  up 
over  the  top  to  form  any  desired  design  on  the  bonbon.  When 
the  chocolate  becomes  too  cool  for  dipping,  it  is  no  longer  smooth 
and  it  will  not  slip  from  the  fingers  easily.  Add  to  it  some  of  the 
chocolate  in  the  double  boiler  over  hot,  but  not  boiling,  water 
and  proceed  as  before. 

Honey  Kisses 

2  tablespoonfuls  honey  1  cupful  brown  sugar 

1  cupful  white  sugar  %  cupful  cream 

2  tablespoonfuls  hot  water  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

nut  meats 

Stir  the  honey,  brown  and  white  sugar,  hot  water  and  cream 
together  until  they  are  melted.  Boil  without  stirring  until  a 
little  of  the  mixture  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  hard  ball. 
Add  the  vanilla  and  pour  into  an  oiled  pan.  While  warm  cut 
into  squares  and  press  a  nut  meat  in  every  piece. 

Fruit  Balls 

1  cupful  raisins  1^/^  cupfuls  dates 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  1  cupful  nut  meats 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIOXS  61 

Put  the  stoned  dates^  seedless  raisins  and  nut  meats  through  a 
food  grinder  and  mix  in  the  lemon  juice.  Shape  into  balls  the 
size  of  marbles  and  dip  in  chocolate. 

Bonbon  Delights 

1  pound  raisins  3  figs 

%  cupful  cocoanut  1  pound  nuts 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  orange  peel 

Put  the  raisins,  cocoanut,  figs  and  nuts  through  a  food  chop- 
per. Add  the  orange  peel  and  thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients. 
Shape  the  paste  into  balls  the  size  of  marbles  and  dip  in 
chocolate. 

Marshmallows 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
%  cupful  hot  water                                2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin 

^  cupful  cold  water 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water.  Cook  sugar  and  hot  water 
nearly  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Add  gelatin,  pour  into  a  large 
bowl  and  beat  until  stiff.  Add  vanilla,  beat  thoroughly  and  pour 
into  a  tin.  Let  stand  until  stiff.  Cut  in  strips,  pull  out  of  tin, 
cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  equal  parts  of  cornstarch  and  powdered 
sugar. 

Pralines 

1%  cupfuls  powdered  sugar  1  cupful  maple  syrup 

Yi  cupful  cream  2  cupfuls  chopped  nut  meats 

Boil  the  powdered  sugar,  cream  and  maple  syrup  together 
until  the  soft  ball  stage  is  reached.  Eemove  from  the  stove  and 
beat  until  creamy.  Add  the  nuts  and  drop  from  a  spoon  on 
buttered  paper. 

Popcorn  Balls 

1  cupful  sugar  'V2  cupful  cold  water 

^  cupful  white  corn  syrup  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Cook  the  sugar,  syrup,  water  and  butter  to  the  soft  ball  stage, 
or  until  a  small  portion  of  the  syrup  dropped  in  cold  water  forms 
a  firm  soft  ball.  Pour  this  over  popped  corn.  Mix  well  and 
when  slightly  cool  press  into  balls.  Use  enough  com  to  make 
about  18  balls  from  this  amount  of  syrup. 


62     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

SYRUPS 
Sugar  Syrup 

1  cupful  sugar  V2  cupful  hot  water 

Boil  these  ingredients  together  5  minutes.  Sen^e  hot,  or  if  the 
syrup  is  to  be  kept,  bottle. 

Fruit  Syrup 

Add  the  juice  and  pulp  of  any  fresh  fruit  to  the  sugar  syrup. 
Orange  and  lemon  syrups  are  winter  favorites.  Canned  pine- 
apples may  be  used  in  this  way.  Strawberry  and  raspberry 
syrups  are  delicious  in  the  berry  season. 

Jam  Syrup 

To  the  sugar  syrup  recipe  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  strawberry, 
raspberry,  blackberry,  grape,  plum  or  any  other  fruit  jam. 
Orange  marmalade  may  be  used. 

Winter  Fruit  Syrup 

Add  1  cupful  of  the  juice  from  canned  apricots,  peaches, 
strawberries  or  other  canned  fruit  to  V2  cupful  of  sugar.  Boil 
until  the  syrup  thickens  slightly.  Add  a  few  bits  of  the  canned 
fruit  and  serve  warm  on  pancakes,  fritters,  biscuits  or  waffles. 


CANDIED  FRUITS 
Candied  Apples 

6  small  apples  2%  cupfuls  sugar 

1%  cupfuls  water 

Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  cut  in  fourths.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  the  sugar  with  the  water  3  minutes.  When  the  syrup  is 
boiling,  add  the  apples  and  simmer,  but  do  not  boil,  4  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  stove  and  let  stand  overnight  in  the  syrup. 
The  next  morning  simmer  the  apples  until  tender,  drain  and  roll 
in  shredded  cocoanut. 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  63 

Taffy  Apples 

Eemove  the  cores  from  red  apples  and  fill  the  cavities  with 
chopped  nuts,  raisins  or  dates.  Fasten  every  apple  to  a  small 
stick  or  skewer  to  be  used  in  holding  them  while  dipping  and 
eating  the  fruit.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  1  cupful  of  white 
sugar,  1  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  I/2  cupful  of  water  and  i/^  cupful 
of  vinegar  together.  Cook  until  the  mixture  cracks  when  a  small 
portion  is  dropped  in  cold  water  and  pushed  together  with  the 
fingers.  Dip  the  apples  in  this,  making  certain  that  they  are 
coated  thoroughly. 

Candied  Cherries 

Stone  the  cherries,  saving  any  juice  that  is  extracted.  Place 
2  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  2  cupfuls  of  water  in  a  kettle  and  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  add  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  boil  until  a  thick  syrup  is  made.  Skim  thoroughly,  add  the 
stoned  cherries  and  cook  gently  until  the  fruit  is  tender.  Drain 
the  cherries  and  place  on  platters  to  dry.  When  thoroughly  dry, 
pack  in  boxes,  lining  them  with  oiled  paper,  placing  this  paper 
between  every  layer  of  fruit  and  sprinkling  liberally  with  sugar. 
Put  cover  on  box,  wrap  with  paper  and  store  in  a  dry  place. 

Candied  Pears 

Peel,  core  and  cut  the  pears  into  halves.  Make  a  thick  syrup 
by  boiling  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  1  cupful  of  water  together. 
Drop  the  pears  in  this  and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  they  are 
tender,  but  not  broken.  Eemove  from  the  stove  and  let  stand  in 
a  cool  place  for  2  days.  Then  drain  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  the 
pears.  Let  them  dry  slowly  in  the  sun  or  in  a  slow  oven^  leaving 
the  oven  door  open.  Pack  in  glass  jars,  sprinkling  generously 
with  sugar,  and  cover. 

Candied  Pineapple 

Peel  the  fruit  and  cut  in  thick  slices.  Remove  the  cores  and 
cut  the  slices  in  halves.  To  every  pound  of  pineapple  use  1  cup- 
ful of  water.  Cook  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  clear.  Then  drain 
and  to  the  liquid  add  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit. 


64  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Boil  the  syrup  down  until  about  one-third  of  it  is  gone ;  then  add 
the  fruit  and  cook  gently  until  it  is  transparent.  Remove  the 
pineapple  again  and  spread  on  platters.  Set  in  the  sun  to  dry. 
Cook  the  syrup  down  again  and  pour  over  the  pineapple.  Let 
dry  thoroughly  and  pack  away  in  glass  jarS;,  placing  sugar  and 
rounds  of  oiled  paper  between  every  layer. 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Cut  the  orange  peel  in  long  one-fourth  inch  wide  strips,  using 
the  kitchen  scissors  for  this  purpose.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  add  a 
little  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Drain  off  the 
liquid  and  add  cold  water  and  repeat  the  process  of  boiling  and 
draining  three  times  in  all. 

After  draining  oS  the  liquid  the  third  time,  measure  the 
orange  peel  and  to  every  cupful  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  suffi- 
cient hot  water  to  cover.  Cook  until  the  white  of  the  skin  is 
translucent.  Then  remove  from  the  syrup,  roll  in  granulated 
sugar,  place  on  plates  to  dry  and  when  thoroughly  dry,  pack  in 
boxes  between  pieces  of  oiled  paper.  This  candied  peel  cut  in 
bits  makes  delicious  flavoring  for  many  cakes,  gingerbreads, 
cookies  and  puddings. 

Candied  Citron 

Peel  small  citron  melons  and  slice  or  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Let  soak  in  weak  salt  water  overnight.  In  the  morning  drain 
and  cover  with  fresh  water ;  add  a  tiny  pinch  of  alum  and  simmer 
until  the  melon  is  clear.  Drain  and  cool.  When  cold  add  2 
cupfuls  of  sugar  to  every  2  cupfuls  of  melon  and  sufficient  water 
to  moisten  the  sugar  thoroughly.  Return  to  the  fire  and  simmer 
2  hours.  Place  the  citron  on  platters  and  let  dry  in  the  sunshine. 
When  thoroughly  dry,  pack  in  boxes  between  layers  of  sugar.  A 
few  pieces  of  ginger  root  may  be  added  with  the  sugar  if  one 
desires. 


CHAPTER  11 
CANXIXG 

The  purpose  of  canning  foods  is  twofold;  to  sterilize,  which 
means  to  kill  all  living  organisms,  and  to  exclude  air.  Many 
bacteria,  yeasts  and  molds,  commonly  called  germs,  are  always 
present  in  air  and  unless  the  canned  fruits,  vegetables  and  meats 
are  kept  in  air-tight  cans,  they  will  spoil  even  though  the  sterili- 
zation at  the  time  of  the  canning  is  perfect. 

Only  firm,  wholesome  materials  should  be  canned,  and  best 
results  are  obtained  by  canning  them  as  soon  as  possible  after 
they  are  gathered  or  picked.  Many  vegetables,  for  instance,  if 
stored  any  length  of  time  after  being  gathered,  even  for  a  few 
hours,  frequently  develop  a  sour  taste  that  sterilization  cannot 
destroy. 

As  a  matter  of  safety  only  good  rubbers  should  be  used.  A 
satisfactory  one  should  be  1/12  inch  thick  and  elastic  enough  to 
stretch  5  inches  or  more  and  rebound  afterward.  The  color  of 
the  rubber  is  not  a  matter  of  consequence. 

Types  of  Canning 

Two  types  of  canning  are  practised  today — the  open  kettle 
method  and  the  cold  pack  method.  The  open  kettle  method  is 
much  older  than  the  cold  pack  system  and  it  is  used  widely  for 
putting  up  fruits.  Since  the  organisms  that  attack  vegetables 
and  meats  are  more  difficult  to  kill,  the  sterilization  of  these 
foods  is  usually  accomplished  with  the  cold  pack  method  by  using 
a  pressure  cooker  or  some  kind  of  a  steam  canning  outfit. 

If  fruit  which  is  being  prepared  for  canning  is  placed  in  cold 
water  to  which  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  is  added  to  every 
quart  of  water,  it  retains  its  color  better  than  if  left  standing 
without  heeding  this  precaution. 

65 


66      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Sterilizing  Jars  and  Utensils 

Since  the  air  contains  the  organisms  that  spoil  foods,  all 
utensils  nsed  in  canning,  such  as  cups,  spoons,  jars,  covers  and 
kettles,  should  be  sterilized.  The  jars  also  should  be  tested. 
This  is  done  by  filling  one  partly  full  of  water,  putting  on  the 
rubber  and  lid  and  inverting  the  jar.  If  it  leaks,  the  jar  or  lid  is 
imperfect  and  should  not  be  used.  To  sterilize  jars,  they  and 
their  lids  are  washed.  Then  they  are  placed  on  a  rack  in  a  large 
kettle  and  are  covered  with  cold  water.  This  water  is  heated 
gradually  and  boiled  15  minutes. 

In  filling  jars  when  the  open  kettle  method  is  used,  the  hot 
water  is  emptied  out,  the  can  is  set  on  a  hot  plate  and  it  is  filled 
to  overflowing  with  cooked  fruit.  The  rubber,  which  has  been 
dipped  in  boiling  water,  is  put  on  and  the  sterilized  lid  is 
screwed  on  at  once.  The  cans  are  stored  in  a  dark  place  so  the 
light  will  not  cause  their  contents  to  fade. 

OPEN  KETTLE  METHOD 

Canned  Peaches 

Dip  peaches  in  scalding  water  and  remove  the  skin  with  a 
silver  knife.  Cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  remove  the  stones  and 
weigh.  Allow  %  their  weight  in  sugar  and  2I/2  cupfuls  of 
water  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together 
until  a  syrup  is  made.  Then  add  the  peaches  and  cook  them 
gently  until  tender.    Can  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Canned  Pears 

Pare  the  fruit  with  a  silver  knife,  cut  in  quarters  or  halves 
and  remove  the  cores.    Can  like  peaches. 

Canned  Apples 

Wash,  pare  and  core  the  apples.  Cut  in  quarters  and  can  like 
peaches. 

Canned  Small  Fruit 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  berries  or  remove  the  pits  from 
cherries  or  apricots.    Cook  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  until 


CANXIXG  67 

soft.  Allow  %  cupful  of  sugar  to  4  cupfuls  of  fruit.  Boil  a  few 
minutes  after  adding  the  sugar.  Pour  into  sterile  jars  and  seal. 
More  or  less  sugar  may  be  added  to  suit  individual  tastes. 

Canned  Rhubarb 

Cut  the  rhubarb^  after  washing  thoroughly,  in  one-inch  pieces. 
Place  in  sterile  jars,  cover  with  water  which  has  been  boiled  and 
cooled.     Seal.     Gooseberries  may  be  canned  in  this  way. 


COLD  PACK  METHOD 

The  types  of  canners  used  in  cold  pack  canning  are  described 
with  other  labor-saving  devices  in  another  section  of  this  book. 
In  this,  as  in  the  open  kettle  method,  the  fruits  and  vegetables 
should  be  freshly  picked  and  sound.  After  being  washed  and 
made  ready  for  canning,  they  are  given  a  hot  dip. 

Blancbing 

Blanching  consists  of  putting  the  prepared  food  in  a  square  of 
cheesecloth  or  in  a  wire  basket  and  placing  it  in  a  kettle  contain- 
ing enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Count  the  time  as  begin- 
ning when  the  water  boils  again.  The  length  of  time  is  given  in 
the  chart.  Best  results  are  obtained  by  hot  dipping  enough 
vegetables  and  fruits  to  fill  one  or  two  cans  at  a  time  and  by 
changing  the  water  used  for  the  scalding  frequently. 

Dipping  in  Cold  Water 

Blanching  is  followed  by  plunging  the  food  in  fresh  cold 
water.    The  cold  dip  makes  it  easier  to  handle  the  food. 

Packing 

The  food  is  packed  in  hot,  sterile  jars  immediately  after  the 
cold  dip,  and  as  soon  as  one  jar  is  packed,  it  is  placed  in  the 
sterilizing  utensil  so  that  undesirable  organisms  will  not  have  a 
chance  to  develop  while  the  other  cans  are  being  packed.  The 
food  should  not  be  pressed  down  very  much  in  the  jars.  Place 
the  rubber  on  the  jar  and  then  add  a  hot  brine  to  the  vegetables 
and  a  hot  syrup  to  the  fruit.    The  brine  is  made  by  filling  the  jar 


68      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

to  within  %  inch  of  the  top  with  boiling  water  and  adding  1  level 
teaspoonfnl  of  salt  to  every  quart  jar.  The  syrup  is  made  by 
boiling  12  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  8  cupfuls  of  water  until  a  thin 
syrup  is  formed.  For  very  sweet  fruits,  the  syrup  may  be  made 
by  boiling  8  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  12  cupfuls  of  water.  The 
syrup  is  cooled  slightly  before  being  poured  over  the  fruits 
packed  in  the  jars. 

Adjusting  the  Covers 

The  cover  is  put  on  tight  enough  that  the  steam  does  not 
escape.  Screw  tops  are  screwed  tight  and  then  are  loosened  with 
one  turn  back.  Bail  cap  jars  are  made  ready  by  placing  the 
glass  cap  in  position  and  pulling  the  top  wire  bail  in  place.  In 
using  other  jar  lids  follow  the  directions  which  are  given  with 
them. 

Processing 

The  time  of  processing  is  given  in  the  table.  Count  the  time 
from  the  minute  the  water  around  the  cans  boils  or  when  the 
pressure  is  right. 

Sealing 

As  soon  as  the  jars  are  removed  from  the  boiling  water  or 
steam,  seal  tightly  and  invert  the  jar  to  make  certain  that  it  does 
not  leak.  In  case  it  leaks,  remove  the  lid  and  rubber  and  put  on 
another  rubber  which  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Adjust 
the  lid.  If  the  lid  is  defective  instead  of  the  rubber,  sterilize 
another  by  boiling  it  in  water  and  then  adjusting  it.  Food  will 
keep  if  the  can  is  not  filled  with  the  liquid  when  cool,  but  if  one 
wishes,  the  space  may  be  filled  with  boiling  water.  This  loss  of 
liquid  in  the  processing  may  be  due  to  the  unevenness  of  the  rack 
in  the  bottom  of  the  boiler  if  a  homemade  canner  is  used.  Or 
this  rack  may  not  have  held  the  cans  high  enough  from  the 
bottom  of  the  boiler.  Some  of  the  liquid  may  have  spilled  out 
due  to  placing  the  jars  unevenly  on  the  rack.  Food  which  is  not 
thoroughly  blanched  frequently  is  the  cause  of  a  partly  filled  jar, 
or  if  a  pressure  cooker  is  used,  the  loss  of  liquid  may  be  caused  by 
too  much  pressure,  or  improper  handling  of  the  pressure. 


CAXXIXG  69 

Directions  for  Preparing  Vegetables  and  Fruits 

Tomatoes — Scald   until   skins   are   loosened,   cold   dip,   remove 

skins,  stems  and  cores. 
Green  Peppers — Bake  in  the  oven  until  the  skins  separate  from 

the  meat.    Remove  the  skins. 
Pumpkin — Pare  and  cut  in  convenient  pieces. 
Squash — Pare  and  cut  in  convenient  sections. 
Sauerkraut — Fill  sterile  jars  and  add  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Sweet  Corn — Remove  husk  and  silk  and  cut  from  the  cob  after 

blanching  and  cold  dipping.     Corn  swells  in  canning,  so  do 

not  pack  the  jars  entirely  full. 
Hominy — Place  in  hot,  sterilized  jars  and  add  boiling  water  to 

cover. 
Field  Corn — Prepare  as  sweet  corn,  only  the  kernels  may  be  put 

through  a  food  chopper  if  one  wishes. 
String  Beans — \\^ash  and  string.    These  may  be  left  whole  or  cut 

in  pieces. 
Cabbage — Shred. 
Peas — Wash  and  shell. 
Lima  Beans — Wash  and  shell. 
Cauliflower — Wash,  break  into  clusters,  soak  in  salt  water   2 

hours,  using  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  to  1  quart  of  water. 
Carrots — Remove  tops  and  scrub. 
Parsnips — Wash  and  scrape  off  the  skin. 
Beets — Cut  off  the  tops  leaving  on  3  inches.    Wash. 
Sweet  Potatoes — Wash  and  pare.     Cut  into  convenient  sections. 
Greens — Pick   over   and   wash   in   several   waters.      Instead   of 

blanching,   steam   over  water  until  wilted   thoroughly,   or 

about  20  minutes.    After  cold  dipping,  cut  into  convenient 

lengths.     A  few  strips  of  boiled  bacon  may  be  added  for 

flavor. 
Soft  Fruits — This  includes  apricots,  berries,  cherries,  currants, 

grapes,  peaches  and  plums.     Hull,  seed,  stem  and  place  in 

a  colander.     Wash  by  pouring  cold  water  over  them.     Pack 

into  hot  jars  or  cans  without  crushing,  using  a  spoon.    Add 

the  syrup. 
Hard  Fruits — The  common  hard  fruits  are  apples,  pears  and 

quinces.    Remove  the  skin  and  core,  cut  in  sections  and  drop 

in  slightly  salted  water.    Blanch,  cold  dip  and  pack. 


Time-Table  Showing  the  Numbee  of  Minutes  Required  for  Scalding, 
Blanching  and  Sterilizing  Vegetables,  Soups,  Fruits  and  Meats  * 


Products  hy  Groups 


Special  Vegetables 

Tomatoes    

Pumpkin    

Squash   

Hominy 

Sauerkraut  

Corn,  sweet , 

Corn,  field , 

Mushrooms    

Sweet  peppers 


Scald  or 
Blanch 


IV2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
5 
10 
5 
5 


Hot- 
Wat  er- 
Bath 
Outfits, 

212 
Degrees 


22 

120 
120 
120 
120 
180 
180 
90 
90 


Water- 
8eal 

Outfits, 
214 

Degrees 


18 
90 
90 
90 
90 
120 
120 
80 
75 


Steam 
Pres- 
sure, 
5  to  10 
Pounds 


15 
60 
60 
60 
60 
90 
60 
50 
60 


Pres- 
sure 
Cooker, 
10  to  15 
Pounds 


10 
40 
40 
40 
40 
60 
50 
30 
40 


Pod  Vegetables  and  Other 
Green  Products 


wax    

stringless 


Beans, 

Beans, 

Okra 

Peppers,  green  or  ripe. 

Cabbage    

Brussels  sprouts 

Cauliflower    


5-10 
5-10 
5-10 
5-10 
5-10 
5-10 
3 


Root  and  Tuber  Vegetables 

Carrots    

Parsnips   

Salsify    

Beets    

Turnips  

Sweet  potatoes  

Other  roots  and  tubers 


120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
60 


90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 


90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
40 


80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 


60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
30 


60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 


40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
30 


40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 


Combinations   and   Soup 
Vegetables 

Lima  beans 

Peas    

Vegetable  combinations  . .  . 


5-10 
5-10 
5-10 


180 
180 
120 


120 
120 
120 


60 
60 
60 


40 
40 
45 


Greens,  Domestic  or  Wild, 


15 


120 


90 


60 


40 


Soft  Fruits  and  Berries 

Apricots    

Blackberries    

Blueberries   

Cherries   


1-2 
0 
0 
0 


16 
16 
16 
16 


10 
10 
10 
10 


*  This  time-table  has  been  worked  out  by  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture.  It  gives  the  number  of  minutes  to  scald  or 
blanch  and  process  foods  being  canned  by  the  cold  pack  method. 


70 


Timx-Table  Showing  the  Number  of  Minutes  Required  foe  Scalding, 
Blanching  and  Sterilizing  Vegetables,  Soups,  Frltits  and  Meats 


Products  by  Groups 

Scald  or 
Blanch 

Hot- 
Water- 

Bath 
Outfits, 

212 
Degrees 

Water- 
Seal 

Outfits, 
214 

Degrees 

Steam 
Pres- 
sure, 
5  to  10 
Pounds 

Pres- 

sure 

Cooker, 

10  to  15 

Pounds 

Soft  Fruits  and  Berries 
Currants       

i-2 
1-2 

i-2 
i-2 

16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
12 
30 

12 
12 
12 
12 

12 

12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
10 
20 

10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
6 
12 

5 

Dewberries    

5 

Figs    

5 

Gooseberries    

5 

Grapes    

5 

Huckleberries    

5 

Peaches    . . .  c 

5 

Plums    

5 

Raspberries   

5 

Strawberries   

5 

Citrus  fruits    

4 

Fruits  without  sugar  syrup .  . 

10 

Hard  Fruits 
Apples    

11/2 
11/2 
IV2 

20 
20 
20 
15 

12 
12 
12 
10 

8 
8 
8 
8 

6 

Pears    

6 

Quinces    

6 

Fruit  juices 

5 

Meats 

Uncooked 
Poultry  and  game 

180 
180 
180 

180 
180 
180 

120 
120 
120 

60 

Beef   

60 

Corned   beef    

60 

Prepared  Young  Meats 
Spring  fries    

... 

90 
90 
90 
90 
90 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 

30 

Fried  meats   

30 

Baked  meats 

30 

Stewed  meats   

30 

Roasted  meats   

30 

Prepared  Mature  Meats 
Wild  game    

'5* 

5 

90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
180 
180 

60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
160 
160 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
120 
120 

30 

Fowls    

30 

Cockerels    

30 

Fried  meats    

50 

Baked  meats 

30 

Stewed  meats  

30 

Roasted  meats 

90 

Fish  

90 

Shellfish    

Soups 
Soup    combinations   and    soup 
stock    

90 

75 

60 

45 

71 


72      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

This  time  schedule  is  based  upon  the  one-quart  pack  and  upon 
fresh  products  at  altitudes  up  to  1,000  feet.  For  higher  altitudes 
increase  the  time  10  per  cent  for  each  additional  500  feet. 

When  processing  fruits  in  steam-pressure  canners,  not  over 
5  pounds  of  steam  pressure  should  be  used. 

When  processing  vegetables,  do  not  use  over  15  pounds  of 
pressure. 

CANNING  MEATS 

Meats  are  either  partially  cooked  before  being  sterilized  or 
they  are  raw  when  packed  in  the  jars.  It  is  somewhat  easier  for 
the  inexperienced  canner  to  have  good  results  if  the  meat  is 
cooked  a  little  before  being  sterilized.  This  meat  may  be  fried, 
roasted,  stewed  or  broiled,  just  as  it  would  be  for  immediate  use, 
only  it  is  not  cooked  until  tender.  It  is  seasoned  to  taste,  heated 
throughout  and  cooked  until  about  three-fourths  done.  Over- 
cooking, like  sterilizing  too  long,  produces  a  stringy  meat  which 
shreds  when  served. 

The  jars  and  lids  are  boiled  in  water  15  minutes  before  the 
meat  is  packed;  the  rubbers  are  dipped  in  boiling  water  just 
before  they  are  put  on  the  cans.  Raw  meat  is  cut  in  convenient 
sections  for  canning,  or  if  it  is  to  be  cooked  first,  it  is  cut  in 
pieces  of  the  right  size  for  the  cooking. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt  is  added  to  every  quart  jar  of  raw 
meat.  Since  the  partially  cooked  product  is  already  seasoned,  no 
salt  is  added  to  it  after  it  is  packed  in  the  cans.  A  little  boiling 
water  is  poured  around  the  raw  meat,  and  the  liquor  in  the 
utensil  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked  is  added  when  canning 
partially  cooked  meat.  The  rubber  is  put  on  and  the  lid  is  ad- 
justed just  as  it  is  in  sterilizing  any  product  by  the  cold  pack 
method.  Lids  should  never  be  screwed  or  fastened  tightly  or  the 
glass  will  break.  Tin  cans,  of  course,  are  closed  securely,  or 
capped,  before  being  sterilized. 

Time  to  Sterilize 

All  partially  cooked  meat  is  sterilized  1%  hours  in  boiling 
water,  1  hour  with  a  water  seal  outfit,  40  minutes  with  a  pres- 
sure cooker  with  a  pressure  of  5  pounds,  and  30  minutes  with  a 
pressure  of  15  pounds.    Uncooked  meat  is  sterilized  3  hours  in 


CANNING  73 

boiling  water,  3  hours  in  a  water  seal  outfit,  2  hours  in  steam 
with  a  pressure  of  5  pounds,  and  40  minutes  in  a  pressure  cooker 
with  15  pounds  of  pressure.  This  is  the  length  of  time  to 
sterilize  pint  or  quart  jars  but  larger  ones  must  be  given  more 
time. 

The  meats  which  are  most  successfully  canned  are :  roast  beef, 
corned  beef,  tongue,  headcheese,  spareribs,  sausage,  pork  roasts, 
tenderloin,  pigeons  and  other  wild  game  and  poultry. 

Corned  Beef 

After  beef  has  been  corned  the  required  length  of  time,  remove 
it  from  the  brine  and  soak  for  a  few  hours  in  clear  water, 
changing  the  water  once.  Then  place  it  in  a  wire  basket  or  tie  it 
in  cheesecloth  and  boil  30  minutes.  Remove  from  the  boiling 
water,  plunge  into  cold  water  and  remove  the  gristle,  bone  and 
excessive  fat.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  sterilized  jars. 
Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position  and  partially  seal. 
Sterilize  3  hours  in  a  homemade  or  commercial  water  bath  out- 
fit, 3  hours  in  a  water  seal,  2  hours  with  5  pounds  of  steam  pres- 
sure and  1  hour  with  from  10  to  15  pounds  of  steam  pressure. 

Chicken 

If  one  does  not  wish  to  can  the  bones  of  poultry  or  wild  game, 
the  bird,  after  being  dressed,  cooled  and  cut  in  convenient 
pieces,  may  be  boiled  in  water  until  the  meat  may  be  removed 
from  the  bones.  One  teaspoonful  of  salt  is  added  to  every  quart 
jar  and  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  cooked,  or  boiling  water,  is 
added.    It  is  sterilized  like  all  raw  or  partially  cooked  meats. 

Fried  Chicken 

Season  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  fry  until  three-fourths 
cooked.  Drop  the  pieces  in  sterile  quart  jars,  pour  the  drippings 
from  the  frying  pan  around  the  chicken.  Sterilize  like  all  par- 
tially cooked  meats. 

Canned  Rabbit 

Select  tender  cottontails,  if  possible,  and  after  dressing  and 
cooling,  blanch  or  dip  in  boiling  water.    When  the  meat  becomes 


74      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

white,  plunge  in  cold  water  and  cut  in  convenient  sections  for 
packing  in  cans.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  every  quart  jar  and 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  meat.  Adjust  the  rubbers  and  lids 
and  sterilize  like  all  uncooked  meats. 


Rabbit  Sausage 

Use  the  backs  and  legs  of  rabbits  for  this  purpose.  To  4  cup- 
fuls  of  rabbit  meat  add  11/2  cupfuls  of  salt  pork.  Grind  in  the 
food  chopper  and  add  1/2  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  1  teaspoonful 
of  ground  sage.  Mix  thoroughly,  shape  in  cakes  and  brown  in  a 
frying  pan.  Pack  in  jars,  pour  the  fat  in  which  the  sausage  was 
fried  into  the  jars  and  sterilize  like  all  partially  cooked  meats. 


CANNING  SOUPS 

Beef  Stock 

Strip  off  the  fat  and  meat  from  15  pounds  of  beef  joints, 
bones  and  hocks.  Use  fat  and  meat  for  some  other  purpose. 
Crack  the  bones  with  a  hatchet  and  place  them  in  a  thin  piece  of 
cloth  and  tie  securely.  Place  in  a  kettle  containing  10  quarts  of 
cold  water.  Simmer,  but  do  not  boil,  for  5  hours.  Do  not  salt 
while  cooking.  Skim  off  the  fat,  pour  in  hot  sterilized  cans  and 
sterilize  90  minutes  in  a  homemade  or  commercial  water 
bath  outfit,  75  minutes  in  a  water  seal  outfit  and  60  minutes  in  a 
pressure  cooker  with  5  pounds  of  pressure,  or  45  minutes  with  a 
pressure  of  from  10  to  15  pounds.  This  stock  may  be  combined 
with  vegetables,  canned  or  fresh,  or  with  noodles,  dumplings  and 
a  great  many  other  foods. 

Chicken  Stock 

Place  20  pounds  of  chicken  in  7  gallons  of  cold  water  and 
simmer  over  the  fire  5  hours.  Remove  meat  from  the  bones  and 
strain.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  7  gallons  of  stock  and 
sterilize  the  same  length  of  time  as  for  beef  stock.  If  one  wishes, 
a  small  amount  of  boiled  rice  may  be  added  to  every  can  of 
chicken  broth  or  soup  stock. 


CANNING  75 

CANNING  FRUIT  JUICES 

Add  a  small  amount  of  water  to  the  washed,  picked  over  and 
crushed  grapes,  berries  or  other  fruit.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
simmer  a  few  minutes  or  until  the  juice  runs  freely.  Then  strain 
the  juice  through  two  layers  of  cotton  flannel  into  clean  jars  or 
bottles  which  have  been  boiled  15  minutes  in  water.  Place  on  a 
false  bottom,  such  as  a  wire  rack,  in  a  large  kettle  and  pour 
around  them  sufficient  water  to  touch  the  shoulders  of  the  jars 
and  the  necks  of  the  bottles. 

If  the  jars  are  used  the  lids  are  half  sealed,  while  either  a 
piece  of  cotton  or  a  cork  which  has  been  boiled  in  water  is 
inserted  loosely  in  the  bottles.  Sterilize  this  fruit  juice  30  min- 
utes, the  water  around  it  being  kept  simmering  all  the  time. 
Boiling  the  water  injures  the  flavor  of  the  juice.  "When  the  jars 
are  removed,  tighten  the  lids  and  remove  the  cotton  stoppers, 
inserting  tightly  fitting  corks  and  dipping  these  tops  in  paraflin. 
These  juices  may  be  used  for  winter  jelly  making,  in  gelatin 
dishes,  pudding  and  other  sauces. 


CHAPTEE  12 
PICKLES,  CATCHUPS  AND  EELISHES 

Most  meals  are  improved  by  the  use  of  pickles  which  add  zest 
and  variety.  On  the  farm  where  there  are  gardens  and  orchards, 
various  kinds  of  pickles  can  be  made  during  the  summer  and 
fall. 

In  making  pickles  the  first  precaution  to  heed  is  that  of  using 
only  sound,  never  over-ripe,  vegetables  and  fruits.  Unless  badly 
soiled,  these  should  be  cleansed  by  being  wiped  with  a  damp 
cloth  and  then  with  a  dry  one,  for  even  a  little  water  may  prevent 
the  pickle  from  keeping. 

If  possible,  use  pure  eider  vinegar.  Some  commercial  vine- 
gars, other  than  that  made  from  cider,  frequently  contain  chemi- 
cals that  soften  the  pickles,  making  them  flabby.  Cooking  too 
long  in  vinegar  also  softens  pickles.  The  purpose  of  heating  is  to 
cause  the  vinegar  to  ^^strike  in^'  or  if  there  are  mixed  vegetables, 
cooking  is  an  excellent  way  to  blend  the  flavors. 

Precautions  to  Heed 

Adding  a  little  grated  horseradish  or  nasturtium  leaves  helps 
to  keep  the  pickles  from  molding,  while  the  addition  of  grape 
leaves  is  supposed  to  make  the  pickles  green.  A  little  powdered 
alum  may  be  added  to  make  pickles  crisp,  but  this  material  must 
be  used  in  very  small  quantities,  if  at  all,  since  it  is  an  astringent 
and  large  amounts  impart  an  undesirable  flavor. 

In  making  or  storing  pickles  no  metal  utensils  should  be  used. 
An  enameled  kettle  gives  best  results  in  cooking,  and  for  storing 
glass  fruit  jars  or  stoneware,  not  earthenware^  jars  are  best. 

As  a  rule,  best  results  are  obtained  by  sealing  the  pickles  in 
sterilized  glass  jars  although  they  may  be  left  in  the  brine.  If 
this  is  done,  they  must  be  examined  frequently  to  make  certain 
that  none  of  them  are  soft.    Too  strong  a  brine  causes  them  to 

76 


PICKLES,  CATCHUPS  AXD  RELISHES  77 

become  soft.    When  spices  are  used,  they  are  tied  in  thin  muslin 
or  cheesecloth. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

4  quarts  cucumbers  4  quarts  vinegar 

4  red  peppers 

Wash  and  wipe  until  dry,  small  unripe  cucumtsrs.  Put  into 
a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  a  brine  made  by  adding  1  cupful  of 
salt  to  every  quart  of  water  used.  Have  the  brine  cool  when  added 
to  the  cucumbers.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Heat  to  near  the  boiling 
point,  drain  and  wipe  the  cucumbers  dry.  Cover  them  with 
fresh,  cold  water,  the  colder  the  better.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Drain  and  cook  the  cucumbers,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  the 
cider  vinegar  boiled  with  the  peppers.  Can  in  sterilized  jars, 
pouring  the  hot  vinegar  over  the  pickles.  Seal.  Sweet  pickles 
may  be  made  by  adding  sugar  and  spices  to  the  vinegar. 

Dill  Pickles 

Use  cucumbers  about  8  inches  long.  Wash  and  wipe  until 
dry  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  stone  jar,  placing  between  every 
layer  a  small  red  pepper  cut  in  pieces,  a  large  bunch  of  dill  seed 
on  the  stalk  and  a  few  clean  grape  leaves.  Repeat  the  process 
until  the  cucumbers  have  been  used.  Then  add  4  cupfuls  of  salt 
to  3  gallons  of  water,  boil  and  skim,  adding  suflBcient  water  to 
make  3  gallons  of  the  brine  after  the  boiling.  When  cool,  pour 
over  the  cucumbers.  Spread  more  dill,  grape  leaves  and  a  clean 
cloth  over  the  top.  Cover  with  a  plate  weighted  down  with  a 
heavy  block  and  let  stand  3  weeks  before  using  any  of  the  pickles. 
Wash  the  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  jar  two  times  every  week. 

Dill  Pickles 

50  medium-sized  cucumbers  6  quarts  water 

1  large  bunch  dill  l^^  quarts  vinegar 

%  cupful  mustard  seed  IVq  cupfuls  salt 

^  cupful  grated  horseradish  brine 

Wash  the  cucumbers  and  place  in  a  brine  overnight.  Make 
a  brine  by  using  i/2  cupful  of  salt  to  every  gallon  of  water. 
Drain  the  cucumbers  in  the  morning  and  arrange  them  in  layers 
in  sterile  glass  fruit  jars.     Between  every  layer  place  some  of 


78      THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

the  dill,  horseradish  and  mustard  seed.  Heat  the  vinegar,  water 
and  salt  together.  When  boiling  hot,  pour  the  liquid  over  the 
cucumbers  and  seal. 

Beet  Pickles 

Wash  the  beets  carefully,  but  do  not  cut  off  the  roots,  and 
leave  at  least  3  inches  of  the  tops  on  to  prevent  "bleeding^'  dur- 
ing the  cooking.  Boil  the  beets  until  almost  tender,  plunge  in 
cold  water,  remove  skins  and  cut  or  slice  as  desired. 

For  sour  pickles  boil  the  beets  in  vinegar  until  thoroughly 
cooked.  Then  pour  in  sterilized  cans,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt 
to  every  quart  and  pour  in  the  boiling  vinegar.    Seal. 

Sweet  beet  pickles  are  made  by  using  a  syrup  instead  of  the 
vinegar  and  salt.  To  make  the  syrup  boil  4  cupfuls  of  sugar 
with  2  cupfuls  of  vinegar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  cloves 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  stick  cinnamon.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  piece 
of  thin  muslin.  Bring  the  syrup  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil 
the  beets  in  it  5  minutes.    Pour  in  sterilized  jar^  and  seal. 

Sweet  Sliced  Cucumber 

1  quart  large  cucumbers  18  whole  cloves 

1  onion  1  tablespoonful  mustard  seed 

1  green  pepper  .%  teaspoonful  celery  seed 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  salt 

1  teaspoonful  turmeric  vinegar  to  cover 

Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the 
pepper  and  cut  in  small,  thin  slices.  Slice  the  onion  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  salt,  and  let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning, 
drain,  add  the  other  ingredients,  using  white  mustard  seed,  and 
boil  until  tender.    Can  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Mustard  Pickles 

Use  equal  quantities  of  cucumbers,  green  tomatoes,  caulifiower 
and  small  onions.  Cover  with  boiling  brine  made  from  1  cupful 
of  salt  to  every  quart  of  water.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain  and 
cover  with  fresh  boiling  water.  Let  stand  30  minutes.  Drain 
and  cover  with  mustard  sauce  made  by  cooking  1  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  1/2  pound  of  mustard  and  1/4  pound  of  flour,  which  have 
been  mixed  together,  with  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Seal  the  pickles 
while  hot  in  sterile  jars. 


PICKLES,  CATCHUPS  AND  RELISHES  79 

Delicious  Relish 

2  small  cabbages  4  tablespoonfuls  flour 

5  onions  1%  cupfuls  sugar 

10  ears  corn  3  hot  peppers 

4  tablespoonfuls  salt  4  cupfuls  vinegar 

3  tablespoonfuls  mustard 

Steam  the  corn  until  tender,  cut  from  the  cob  and  add  to  the 
chopped  cabbage,  onions  and  peppers.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  to  the  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  vegetables 
and  simmer  40  minutes.  Pour  into  large  bottles  or  jars  which 
are  sterile  and  seal  while  hot. 


Pepper  and  Onion  Relish 

24  red  peppers  3  tablespoonfuls  salt 

18  large  white  onions  2  cupfuls  sugar 

6  cupfuls  cider  vinegar 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers,  skin  the  onions  and  put 
both  vegetables  through  the  food  grinder.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Drain  and  add  the  vinegar, 
sugar  and  salt.    Boil  25  minutes  and  can  or  bottle  while  hot. 


Tomato  Relish 

2  pecks  ripe  tomatoes  QV2  cupfuls  vinegar 

y2  peck  white  onions  Vo  cupful  salt 

2  teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper 

Skin  onions,  wash  the  tomatoes  and  cut  both  vegetables  in 
small  pieces.  Cook  together  until  soft,  strain  and  cook  again 
until  the  mixture  is  as  thick  as  catchup.  Add  vinegar,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  and  cook  again  until  the  mixture  is  as  thick  as 
catchup.    Seal  in  sterile  jars  or  bottles. 

Tomato  Catchup 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  1  teaspoonful  ground  mace 

^  cupful  salt  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon 

1  cupful  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  ground  cloves 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne  1  tablespoonful  mustard 

1  quart  cider  vinegar 

Stew  the  tomatoes  until  tender.  Then  rub  them  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  spices  and  vinegar  and  cook  until  of  the  right 
consistency.    Bottle  in  sterile  bottles  and  seal. 


80  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Chili  Sauce 

1%  dozen  tomatoes  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

3  small  onions  V2  teaspoonful  chili  pepper 

3  green  peppers  1  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  2  cupfuls  vinegar 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

Use  ripe  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  peel  the  onions  and 
discard  the  pepper  seeds.  Put  the  vegetables  in  a  kettle,  after 
chopping  them  in  small  pieces.  Cook  slowly  until  they  are 
tender.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  spices  and  vinegar  and  cook  10 
minutes.    Bottle  and  seal. 

Apple  Chutney 

1  dozen  sour  apples  2  cupfuls  vinegar 

3  small  onions  %  cupful  lemon  juice 
3  green  peppers                                         2  cupfuls  sugar 

1  small  red  pepper  V2  cupful  cranberry  jelly 

1  cupful  raisins  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  tablespoonful  salt 

Chop  the  apples,  onion  and  peppers  in  fine  pieces  and  add  the 
vinegar  and  jelly.  Simmer  gently  11/2  hours,  stirring  frequently. 
Add  the  other  ingredients,  using  brown  ginger,  and  cook  1  hour. 
Pour  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Lemon  Catchup 

7  lemons  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish  5  blades  mace 

1%  tablespoonfuls  celery  seeds  8  cloves 

1%  tablespoonfuls  mustard  seeds  6  grains  red  pepper 

Grate  the  rinds  from  the  lemons  and  add  the  strained  juice 
of  the  fruit,  the  spices  and  salt.  Boil  gently  45  minutes.  Pour 
into  glasses  and  seal.  This  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  2 
months. 

Raspberry  Catchup 

1  gallon  ripe  raspberries  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  quart  cider  vinegar  1  small  piece  ginger  root 

%  teaspoonful  mustard  seeds  2  cupfuls  sugar 

Cook  the  berries  slowly  in  the  vinegar  for  1  hour,  then  strain 
and  add  the  spices  and  mustard  seed.  Boil  slowly  20  minutes, 
strain  and  measure.  To  every  quart,  add  2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Simmer  gently  until  the  mixture  is  thick,  then  bottle  and  seal. 


PICKLES,  CATCHUPS  AND  RELISHES  81 

Walnut  Catchup 

Use  walnuts  which  are  soft  enough  that  they  may  be  pierced 
with  a  needle.  Mash  them  to  a  pulp  and  allow  them  to  lie  in 
salt  water  2  weeks,  using  I/2  cupful  of  salt  to  20  walnuts  and 
sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  Drain  off  this  liquid  and  pour  on 
a  pint  of  boiling  vinegar  and  let  stand  for  5  minutes ;  then  drain. 
To  every  quart  of  this  liquor  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  of  ginger,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves  and  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  nutmeg.    Boil  1  hour  and  when  cool,  bottle  and  seal. 


Apple  Catchup 

2  quarts  tart  apple  sauce  2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  cloves 

4  small  onions  1%   teaspoonfuls  pepper 

2  quarts  vinegar  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

2  cupfuls  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

2  teaspoonfuls  mustard  1  teaspoonful  mace 

Put  the  apple  sauce  through  a  sieve,  add  the  chopped  onions, 
vinegar,  salt,  sugar  and  spices.  Simmer  until  thick.  Bottle 
and  seal  while  hot. 


Cucumber  Catchup 

10  cucumbers  1  teaspoonful  ginger 

8  onions  V2  teaspoonful  pepper 

5  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  powdered  mace 

2  tablespoonfuls  mustard  seed  .%  teaspoonful  turmeric 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  1  teaspoonful  celery  seeds 
vinegar  salt 

Slice  the  unpeeled  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 

2  hours.  Drain,  add  the  sliced  medium-sized  onions,  the  spices, 
sugar  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover.  Put  into  a  saucepan  and 
boil  until  tender.  If  this  is  not  salt  enough,  add  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt.     Seal  while  hot  in  sterile  jars  or  bottles. 


Elderberry  Catchup 

4  cupfuls  ripe  elderberries  24  whole  cloves 

6  cupfuls  boiling  vinegar  40  white  peppercorns 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2  blades  mace 

small  piece  of  ginger  root  4  shallots 

Remove  the  elderberries  from  the  stems,  measure  and  add 
the  boiling  vinegar.    Let  stand  overnight  in  a  cool  place.    Next 


82  THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  EXILE  BOOK 

day  strain  the  liquor  through  a  muslin  bag  without  pressure  and 
boil  it  five  minutes  with  the  salt,  spices  and  chopped  shallots. 
Bottle  and  seal  while  hot. 


Grape  Catchup 

3  quarts  ripe  grapes  1^/^  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon 

vinegar  to  cover  1^  tablespoonfuls  cloves 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  1%  tablespoonfuls  allspice 

Cook  grapes  in  vinegar  until  they  are  soft.  Eub  through  a 
sieve,  add  sugar  and  spices  to  the  pulp  and  cook  slowly,  stirring 
occasionally  to  avoid  burning,  until  of  the  consistency  of  catchup. 


PICKLED  FRUITS 
Sweet  Peach  Pickles 

16  peaches  1  cupful  vinegar 

1  pound  brown  sugar  16  whole  cloves 

2  large  sticks  cinnamon 

Dip  the  peaches  in  hot  water  and  remove  immediately,  rubbing 
them  with  a  towel  to  remove  the  skins.  Boil  the  sugar,  vinegar 
and  cinnamon,  broken  in  small  pieces,  5  minutes.  Pierce  every 
peach  with  a  clove.  Put  them  in  the  syrup  and  simmer  until 
soft.  The  slower  and  longer  the  cooking,  the  better  the  color  and 
flavor.    Place  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 


Sweet  Pickled  Pears 

Follow  directions  for  sweet  pickled  peaches^  using  pears  in- 
stead of  the  peaches. 

Spiced  Apples 

8  apples  ^  cupful  vinegar 

%  cupful  brown  sugar  1  large  stick  cinnamon 

whole  cloves 

Boil  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  cinnamon,  broken  in  bits,  5  min- 
utes. Wash,  pare  and  core  the  apples  and  cut  in  eighths.  Pierce 
every  piece  with  a  clove.  Simmer  gently  until  tender  in  the 
syrup.    Can  in  sterile  jars. 


PICKLES,  CATCHUPS  AND  RELISHES  83 

Cantaloupe  Pickles 

Select  firm  "under-ripe  melons,  cut  in  small  sections  and  dis- 
card the  seeds.  Soak  in  a  brine  made  by  dissolving  %  cupful 
of  salt  in  a  quart  of  water.  After  the  melon  has  stood  in  this 
3  or  -i  hours,  drain  and  add  the  well-drained  sections  to  a  syrup 
made  by  boiling  4  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  vinegar,  1  quart 
of  water,  1  tablespoonf ul  of  cloves  and  1  tablespoonful  of  allspice 
together.  Boil  the  melon  rapidly  in  this  10  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  stove  and  let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  drain 
the  syrup  from  the  melon  and  boil  it  until  the  back  of  a  spoon 
dipped  in  it  is  coated.  Then  add  the  cantaloupe  and  cook 
slowly  1  hour. 


CHAPTEE  13 

FRUIT  PRESERVES,  JAMS  AND  BUTTERS 

Preserves  are  fruits  canned  in  a  thick  syrup.  Usually  these 
are  cooked  by  the  open  kettle  method.  They  are  stored  in  glasses 
covered  with  a  layer  of  paraffin  which  keeps  the  air  from  enter- 
ing. Properly  preserved  fruits  are  saturated  with  sugar  so 
they  have  a  transparent  appearance.  Uncooked  fruits  should 
never  be  dropped  into  a  thick  syrup  as  this  causes  them  to 
shrivel. 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Pick  over,  hull,  wash  and  drain  berries.  Weigh  and  make  a 
syrup  by  using  %  their  weight  in  sugar  mixed  with  water.  Use 
1  cupful  of  water  to  every  2  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Boil  the  syrup 
5  minutes.  Add  the  berries  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Lift 
out  the  fruit  and  place  in  the  sterilized  glasses.  Boil  the  syrup 
10  minutes  longer  and  pour  over  the  berries.  When  cool,  pour 
melted  paraffin  over  the  top,  cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool  dark 
place. 

Raspberry  Preserves 

Follow  the  directions  for  making  strawberry  preserves,  sub- 
stituting raspberries  for  the  strawberries. 

Blackberries 

Substitute  blackberries  for  the  strawberries  and  make  like 
strawberry  preserves. 

Plum  Conserve 

5  pounds  fruit  2  pounds  raisins 

5  pounds  sugar  %  cupful  nut  meats 

3  oranges 

84 


FEUIT  PRESEEVES,  JAMS  AND  BUTTERS       85 

Grind  the  fruit  and  chopped  nuts  through  the  food  chopper. 
Cook  until  as  thick  as  desired  and  seal  in  sterile  fruit  jars  or  in 
glasses  like  the  strawberry  preserves. 

Jams 

Use  sound  fruit  or  berries.  Wash  carefully  and  stem  or  pare 
as  is  necessary.  Weigh  or  measure  the  fruit.  Cut  large  fruit  in 
pieces  and  crush  berries  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  just 
enough  water  to  prevent  sticking.  Stir  to  keep  from  burning 
and  cook  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  %  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  Simmer  until  the  desired  consistency  is 
reached,  pour  into  hot  sterilized  jars,  cool,  seal  with  paraffin, 
cover  and  store  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Fruit  Butters 

Fruit  butters  are  made  like  jams,  only  the  cooked  fruit  or 
berries  are  rubbed  through  a  colander  before  the  sugar  is  added. 
As  a  rule,  fruit  butters  are  not  so  thick  as  jams.  After  the  sugar 
is  added,  the  butter  may  be  set  in  the  oven  to  finish  cooking  so 
it  will  not  have  to  be  stirred  so  much. 

Watermelon  Conserve 

6  cupfuls  watermelon  rind  4%  lemons 

5  cupfuls  apples  6  cupfuls  sugar 

4  oranges  5  cupfuls  water 

Chop  or  cut  the  rind  into  small  cubes,  discarding  the  green 
portion.  Peel  the  apples,  remove  the  cores  and  chop.  Chop 
oranges,  peeling  and  all,  removing  the  seeds.  Use  the  juice  of 
the  lemons.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  boil  slowly  from  2  to  3 
hours.    Can  and  seal  in  sterile  jars. 

Splendo  Marmalade 

2  pounds  quinces  2  pounds  peaches 

2  pounds  pears  3  lemons 

y2  pound  sour  apples  sugar 

Peel  the  quinces,  pears,  apples  and  peaches,  removing  the  cores 
and  pits.  Cut  or  chop  in  fine  bits.  Slice  the  lemons  in  thin 
wafer-like  slices,  discarding  the  seeds.     Weigh  the  combination 


86      THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

of  fruits  and  add  %  as  much  sugar  as  fruit.  Let  stand  several 
hours  in  a  cool  place.  Then  boil  gently  until  the  marmalade  is 
very  thick^  stirring  frequently  so  the  mixture  will  not  stick  to 
the  pan  or  burn.  If  one  wishes,  1  pound  of  finely  ground  nut 
meats  may  be  added  just  before  the  marmalade  is  taken  from  the 
stove.    Seal  while  hot  in  sterilized  jars. 

Prune  Marmalade 

1  pound  prunes  1%  cupfuls  sugar 

1  cupful  vinegar  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1/^  teaspoonful  cloves 

Soak  the  prunes  overnight  in  cold  water  and  cook  the  next 
morning  in  the  same  water  in  which  they  soaked.  After  cooking 
slowly  45  minutes,  drain,  saving  the  liquor,  and  cut  the  prunes 
in  small  pieces.  Discard  the  pits.  Place  the  prunes  and  the 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  with  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  and  cook 
slowly  45  minutes,  or  until  the  marmalade  is  thick. 


Dried  Peach  Butter 

1  pound  peaches  1  cupful  sugar 

2  cupfuls  water 

Wash  the  peaches  carefully  and  soak  overnight  in  cold  water. 
Cook  slowly  in  the  same  water  the  next  morning  until  the  fruit 
is  very  tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  the  sugar  and  simmer 
gently  until  the  butter  is  of  the  desired  consistency. 

Winter  Jam 

2  oranges  1  grapefruit 

2  lemons  sugar 

Wash  the  fruit  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  discarding  the  seeds 
but  saving  all  the  juice.  Use  only  the  pulp  of  the  grapefruit. 
Measure  the  fruit  and  juice  and  pour  three  times  its  quantity  of 
water  over  it.  Let  stand  overnight.  Then  cook  30  minutes, 
measure  again  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Mix  together 
thoroughly  and  let  stand  overnight  again.  In  the  morning  sim- 
mer until  the  marmalade  is  thick.  Use  an  enameled  saucepan 
for  cooking  this  marmalade,  or  if  desired,  a  stone  crock  may  be 
used. 


FRUIT  PRESERVES,  JAMS  AjS^D  BUTTERS        87 
Quince  Honey 

5  large  quinces  2  cupfuls  water 

5  cupfuls  sugar 

Pare  and  grate  or  grind  the  quinces.  To  2  cupfuls  of  water 
add  5  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Add  the  quinces  and  cook  20  minutes.  Turn  into 
sterile  glasses  and  seal. 

Pear  Honey 

1  peck  pears  1  quart  grated  pineapple 

sugar 

Pare  and  core  the  ripe  pears  and  put  through  the  food  grinder. 
Measure  and  add  %  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  and  cook  without 
adding  water  until  the  mixture  is  the  color  of  rich  preserves. 
Add  the  pineapple,  cook  3  minutes  and  can  in  sterile  jars. 

Cider  Fruit  Butters 

10  pounds  fruit  Cinnamon   or   other  spices   as   de- 

5  pounds  sugar  sired 

Cider  enough  to  barely  cover 

Apples,  peaches,  pears,  plums,  grapes  and  other  fruits  may 
be  used.  When  using  the  larger  fruits,  peel  and  remove  the 
seeds,  add  sugar,  cider  and  spices.  Cook  together  until  of  a. thick 
consistency,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burning.  It  is  easier 
to  c-ook  fruit  butters  in  the  oven  since  fewer  stirrings  are  re- 
quired. When  using  small  fruits  as  plums  and  grapes,  cook  with 
the  cider  until  soft  and  then  rub  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the 
skins  and  seeds.  Add  sugar,  return  to  the  stove  and  cook  like 
other  fruit  butters.    Seal  in  sterile  jars. 

Pumpkin  Butter 

4  cupfuls  pumpkin  pulp  %  teaspoonful  ground  ginger 

2  cupfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  ground  cloves 
%  teaspoonful  cinnamon  %  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg 

2  lemons 

Steam  the  pumpkin  until  tender,  drain  and  put  through  a 
sieve.  To  every  4  cupfuls  of  the  pulp  add  the  spices  and  the 
juice  of  the  lemons.  Cook  slowly  in  the  oven  until  thick.  Pour 
into  glasses,  cool  and  seal. 


CHAPTER  14 

JELLY  MAKING 

The  success  of  jelly  making  depends  largely  on  three  factors 
— the  amount  of  acid  in  the  fruit,  the  amount  of  pectin  present 
and  the  quantity  of  sugar  used.  If  the  fruit  tastes  sweet,  it 
needs  acid,  which  may  be  supplied  by  the  addition  of  lemon  juice 
or  some  other  tart  fruit  juice.  An  excellent  way  to  test  fruit 
juice  for  the  acid  it  contains  is  to  compare  its  taste  with  that 
of  a  tart  apple.  If  the  apple  is  more  tart^  sour  fruit  juice  is 
needed  for  the  jelly.  Another  test  is  made  by  mixing  together  1 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  % 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  If  the  fruit  juice  is  not  so  tart  as  this 
mixture,  it  is  best  to  add  lemon  juice  or  some  other  tart  fruit 
juice  when  cooking  the  fruit  for  the  jelly. 

Testing  for  Pectin 

Pectin  may  be  supplied  by  the  addition  of  apple  juice  or  the 
white  portion  of  lemon  and  orange  peelings.  Since  this  sub- 
stance is  found  more  abundantly  in  under-ripe  fruits  than  ripe 
ones,  very  ripe  fruits  should  not  be  used  for  jellying  purposes. 

To  test  for  pectin,  place  1  tablespoonful  of  wood  alcohol  in  a 
cup  and  add  to  it  1  tablespoonful  of  fruit  juice.  Let  stand  at 
least  30  minutes.  If  pectin  is  present,  a  gelatinous  mass  will 
appear  in  the  liquid.  If  this  can  be  taken  up  in  a  spoon  without 
breaking  apart  and  if  the  mass  is  quite  firm,  there  is  an  abun- 
dance of  pectin  present.  When  the  mass  is  rather  loose  and 
breaks  apart  when  shaken  or  lifted  in  a  spoon  or  if  there  is  little 
of  it,  the  juice  contains  less  pectin.  When  the  pectin  forms  in 
small  globules  but  not  in  a  jelly-like  mass,  the  juice  needs  to  be 
cooked  more  and  the  test  repeated.  Pectin  may  be  prepared  from 
oranges  or  apples  and  kept  on  hand  during  the  jelly  making  sea- 
son or  it  may  be  purchased  at  most  grocery  stores. 

88 


JELLY  MAKING  89 

Sugar  Proportions  Important 

The  amount  of  sugar  required  varieg  with  the  amount  of 
pectin.  If  the  pectin  test  shows  an  abundance  of  pectin  is  pres- 
ent, 1  cupful  of  sugar  is  used  to  every  cupful  of  fruit  juice,  but 
if  the  test  shows  a  loose  and  less  firm  pectin,  %  cupful  of  sugar 
is  used  to  every  cupful  of  fruit  juice. 

Adding  too  much  sugar  produces  a  soft  jelly,  while  not  enough 
produces  a  tough,  stringy  product.  Experiments  have  shown 
that  the  sugar  should  be  added  gradually  after  the  juice  begins 
to  boil.  It  does  not  need  to  be  heated  in  the  oven  first  if  stirred 
into  the  juice  carefully. 

Watch  for  Jellying  Point 

Care  must  be  exercised  in  watching  for  the  jellying  point,  for 
jelly  cooked  too  long  is  stringy  and  tough  and  frequently  it  is 
dark  in  color.  Uncooked  jelly  is  syrupy  and  soft  and  it  has  a 
tendency  to  sour.  By  dipping  some  of  the  jelly  in  a  spoon, 
allowing  it  to  cool  a  few  minutes  and  pouring  it  gently  from  the 
edge  of  the  spoon,  one  can  determine  when  the  jellying  stage  is 
reached.  If  the  juice  runs  off  like  syrup,  it  is  not  cooked  enough, 
but  if  it  breaks  in  flakes  or  sheets  off,  the  jellying  stage  is 
reached.  A  safe  way  of  determining  when  the  jelly  is  cooked 
enough  is  to  use  a  thermometer.  When  the  temperature  of  the 
boiling  mass  is  221  to  223  degrees  Fahrenheit  or  106  degrees 
Centigrade,  the  jellying  point  has  been  reached. 

The  hot  jelly  is  skimmed,  poured  into  sterilized  glasses  which 
have  been  boiled  in  water  12  minutes  and  set  in  a  warm  place, 
such  as  a  sunny  window,  to  cool.  When  firm,  it  is  sealed  with 
paraffin,  labeled  and  stored  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  In  sealing, 
pour  the  hot  paraffin  on  top  of  the  jelly  and  run  a  small  pointed 
knife  around  the  edge  of  the  glass  while  the  paraffin  is  still  hot. 
Sterilize  the  glass  covers  in  boiling  water  before  putting  them 
over  the  jelly.  Wrapping  glasses  in  paper  helps  to  keep  out  light 
and  prevent  fading. 

Straining  the  Juice 

After  the  fruit  is  cooked  to  a  pulp,  strain  the  juice  through 
dampened   flannel   without  squeezing.     This  juice  makes   the 


90     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

best  jelly.  Then  return  the  pulp  to  the  stove,  add  cold  water  to 
cover  and  boil  20  minutes.  Strain  through  the  flannel  again 
without  squeezing.  Make  jelly  as  with  the  first  extraction  of 
juice,  making  the  pectin  test  first  to  determine  how  much 
sugar  to  add.  Cloudy  jelly  usually  is  the  result  of  cooking  the 
juice  too  long  with  the  fruit  or  not  using  sufficient  care  in  strain- 
ing it. 

Best  results  are  obtained  in  making  8  glasses  or  less  at  a  time. 
The  kettle  used  should  have  a  capacity  four  times  as  great  as  the 
volume  of  juice  to  be  cooked.  Cooking  too  much  juice  at  one 
time  frequently  results  in  a  slower  cookery,  thus  a  destruction 
of  pectin  and  a  loss  of  color. 

Apple  Jelly 

Wipe,  quarter  and  core  apples.  Cover  with  cold  water  and 
heat  slowly  until  the  apples  are  a  pulp.  Drain  through  damp- 
ened flannel  and  do  not  squeeze.  Boil  the  juice  about  10  min- 
utes, add  %  as  much  sugar  as  juice  and  boil  10  minutes.  Skim, 
fill  glasses,  and  when  cool,  seal  with  paraffin.  After  straining  the 
juice  from  the  apple  pulp,  return  it  to  the  stove,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Strain  this  juice  through  flannel 
and  make  the  pectin  test  to  determine  how  much  sugar  will  be 
needed.  Make  jelly  with  it  just  like  the  first  extraction  of 
juice. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly- 
Make  as  apple  jelly,  using  crab  apples  instead  of  the  apples. 

Small  Fruit  Jelly 

Pick  over,  wash  and  drain  the  fruit  or  berries,  such  as  grapes, 
raspberries,  currants,  blackberries  and  cranberries,  and  cook  with 
enough  water  to  cover  until  the  juice  is  extracted  from  the  fruit. 
Drain  through  flannel  cloth,  but  do  not  squeeze.  Measure  the 
juice  and  use  %  as  much  sugar  as  juice.  Cook  the  juice  10  min- 
utes, add  the  sugar  and  cook  10  more  minutes.  Skim,  pour  in 
sterilized  glasses  and  seal  with  paraffin  when  cool. 


JELLY  MAKING  91 

Quince  Jelly 

Wash  the  quinces,  cut  in  quarters,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
cook  until  soft.  Strain,  measure  and  add  %  cupful  of  lemon 
juice  to  every  4  cupfuls  of  quince  juice.  Test  for  pectin  and 
finish  the  same  as  for  apple  jelly. 

Strawberry  Jelly 

4  cupfuls  strawberry  juice  4  tablespoonfuls  strained  lemon 

4  cupfuls  sugar  juice 

Bring  the  strawberry  juice  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  sugar.    Boil  until  the  jellying  stage  is  reached. 

Apple  Pectin 

1  pound  apple  pulp  3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

5  cupfuls  cold  water 

Wash  the  apples  thoroughly,  remove  the  stem  ends  and  cut  the 
apples  in  quarters  without  removing  the  skin  or  cores.  Add 
the  lemon  juice  and  water  and  simmer  until  the  apples  are  soft. 
Place  in  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drip,  squeezing  out  the  juice  gently. 
Then  strain  through  a  flannel  without  squeezing.  Test  with 
wood  alcohol  for  pectin. 

Orange  Pectin 

1  cupful  white  portion  of  orange       3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 
peel  6  cupfuls  cold  water 

Cut  the  white  portion  from  the  orange  peel  and  put  through 
the  food  chopper  and  measure.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  3  cup- 
fuls of  the  cold  water  and  let  stand  in  an  enameled  or  earthen- 
ware dish  about  5  hours.  Boil  12  minutes  and  cool.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  cool  and 
let  stand  12  hours  or  overnight.  Boil  10  minutes  and  strain 
through  two  layers  of  cheesecloth,  squeezing  the  bag  to  obtain 
all  the  juice.  Then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  without  squeez- 
ing.   Test  with  alcohol  to  see  how  much  pectin  is  present. 

Strawberry  Jelly 

2  cupfuls  orange  or  apple  pectin         2  cupfuls  strawberry  juice 

2  cupfuls  sugar 


92      THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Combine  the  pectin  and  strawberry  juice  and  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  Skim  and  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  cook  until 
the  jellying  stage  is  reached. 

Orange  Jelly 

2  cupfuls  orange  pectin  2  cupfuls  orange  juice 

2  cupfuls  sugar 

Combine  the  pectin  and  orange  juice  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Skim  and  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  cook  until  the 
jellying  stage  is  reached. 

Cherry  Jelly 

2  cupfuls  apple  pectin  2  cupfuls  cherry  juice 

2  cupfuls  sugar 

Combine  pectin  and  cherry  juice  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Skim  and  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  cook  until  the 
jellying  stage  is  reached. 

Rhubaxb  Jelly 

1  cupful  apple  pectin  2  cupfuls  rhubarb  juice 

2%  cupfuls  sugar 

Use  tender  rhubarb  stalks.  Wash  but  do  not  peel.  Cut  into 
one  inch  pieces  and  add  just  enough  water  to  prevent  sticking 
or  burning  and  simmer  until  soft.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag. 
Combine  the  juice  with  the  pectin  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 
Skim  and  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  cook  until  the  jellying 
stage  is  reached. 

Mint  Jelly 

%  cupful  chopped  mint  leaves  2  cupfuls  apple  pectin 

%  cupful  boiling  water  2  cupfuls  sugar 

green  vegetable  coloring 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  mint  and  allow  the  mixture  to 
steep  1  hour,  keeping  the  bowl  covered.  Strain  and  press  to 
extract  the  juice.  Bring  pectin  to  the  boiling  point  and  skim, 
add  the  mint  juice  and  sugar.  When  the  jellying  stage  is 
reached,  stir  in  a  little  green  vegetable  coloring  mixed  with  a 
little  syrup  to  give  a  green  tint,  stir  well  and  pour  in  sterilized 
jars. 


JELLY  MAKING  93 

Cranberry  Jelly 

4  cupfuls  cranberries  2  cupfuls  sugar 

water  to  cover 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cranherries.  Place  in  a  saucepan  and 
add  barely  enough  water  to  cover.  Cook  20  minutes.  Eub 
through  a  colander  or  sieve  and  add  the  sugar  to  the  pulp.    Cook 

5  minutes  and  pour  in  molds  or  jelly  glasses. 


CHAPTER  15 

PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 

The  dessert  is  the  last  part  of  the  meal  and  therefore  is  of 
great  importance.  If  good,  it  crowns  the  meal  with  success  and 
sends  everyone  from  the  table  in  a  happy  state  of  mind.  There 
is  almost  no  end  to  the  different  kinds  of  desserts,  the  recipes 
in  this  book  being  examples  of  types  which  can  be  prepared  with 
ease  in  the  farm  home. 

Bread  Pudding 

1%  cupfuls  bread  3  cupfuls  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  egg 

%  cupful  sugar  IVi  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

%  teaspoonful  salt  speck  of  nutmeg 

Break  the  bread  in  small  pieces  and  add  it  to  the  scalded  milk. 
Let  stand  a  few  minutes  until  the  bread  is  soft,  then  stir  in  the 
butter,  flavoring,  beaten  egg,  salt  and  sugar.  Pour  in  an  oiled 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  40  minutes, 
taking  care  that  the  pudding  mixture  does  not  boil.  Best  results 
are  obtained  by  setting  the  pudding  dish  in  a  pan  containing  a 
little  water.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

1%  cupfuls  bread  1  egg 

3  cupfuls  milk  %  teaspoonful  salt 
1%  squares  chocolate  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
%  cupful  sugar  speck  of  cinnamon 

Break  the  bread  in  smaU  pieces  and  pour  the  scalded  milk 
over  it.  When  the  bread  is  soft,  add  the  other  ingredients,  first 
melting  the  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  40  minutes  and  serve  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce. 

Peach  Shortcake 

1%  cupfuls  flour  V2  cupful  fat 

%  cupful  cornstarch  %  teaspoonful  salt 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  %  cupful  milk 

94 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS  95 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the  fat  and  add  sufficient  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cut  dough  into  two  parts  and  fit  one 
of  the  halves  into  a  tin.  Butter  the  top  and  lay  the  other  half  on 
it.  Bake  and  serve  with  peach  sauce  between  the  layers  and  on 
top. 

Peach  Sauce 

%  cupful  butter  '1  cupful  powdered  sugar 

%  cupful  sliced  canned  peaches  1  egg  white 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Whip 
in  the  fruit  and  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white. 

Fruit  Puffs 

y2  cupful  butter  2  cupfuls  hot  water 

5  eggs  1%  cupfuls  flour 

2  ounces  chocolate  %  cupful  preserved  fruit 
14  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  cupful  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  egg 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  hot  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Then  stir  in  the  flour  gradually  and  boil  until  it  leaves 
the  sides  of  the  pan.  Stir  constantly  during  the  cooking. 
Usually  1  minute  is  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour  mixture.  Turn 
into  a  bowl  to  cool.  Beat  the  five  eggs  in,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
the  batter  1  minute  for  every  egg.  When  all  five  are  added,  beat 
the  mixture  5  minutes.  Set  in  a  cold  place,  on  ice  if  possible, 
for  at  least  1  hour.  Then  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  paper  lined  pan. 
Use  oiled  paper  or  grease  plain  wrapping  paper.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  15  minutes.  These  should  puff  up  and  have  cavities  in  the 
center. 

Make  a  filling  for  these  by  grating  the  2  squares  of  chocolate 
and  melting  it  over  hot  water.  When  melted  add  the  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  well  beaten  egg  and  the  salt.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Then  add  the 
fruit  preserves  and  vanilla.  Pear,  strawberry  and  peach  pre- 
serves make  delicious  fillings. 

Apple  Betty 

3  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
3  cupfuls  apples  %  teaspoonful  cloves 

%  cupful  sugar  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 


96     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  a  layer  of  the  pared  and 
chopped  apples  in  the  bottom.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  of  the 
sugar  and  spices  which  have  been  mixed  together,  dot  with  some 
of  the  butter  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Re- 
peat this  process  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used,  making  cer- 
tain that  the  top  layer  is  of  bread  crumbs.  Cover  and  bake  40 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  then  remove  the  cover  and  brown  the  top 
quickly.    Serve  when  quite  warm  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce. 

Fig  Pudding 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  Vs  pound  figs 

y<2  cupful  sugar  V2  cupful  boiling  water 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls   sugar 

3  cupfuls  milk  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
2  egg  yolks  2  egg  whites 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  the  salt  and  1/2  cupful  of  sugar  and 
place  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  scalded  milk, 
a  little  at  a  time,  while  stirring  constantly.  Cook  in  the  double 
boiler  25  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and  cook  5 
minutes  longer.  Put  the  figs  through  a  food  grinder,  add  the 
boiling  water  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  them  and  cook 
gently  until  the  figs  are  soft  and  the  water  has  boiled  down. 
Then  stir  in  the  lemon  juice  and  combine  the  two  mixtures. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  place  the  pudding  mixture 
in  an  oiled  baking  dish.  Beat  the  other  egg  white  until  stiff 
and  add  the  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  this  meringue.  Brown 
in  a  slow  oven. 

Fruit  Tapioca 

4  tablespoonfuls  pearl  tapioca  %  teaspoonful  salt 
2  cupfuls  milk                                           1  egg 

y<2,  cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  sliced  bananas 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

Wash  the  tapioca  and  let  stand  overnight  in  cold  water.  Drain 
in  the  morning  and  add  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  the  tapioca  is  clear  or  transparent.  Then  add  the 
sugar,  salt  and  the  beaten  egg  yolk.  Cook  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Remove  from  the  stove  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  white.  Slice  the  bananas  and  sprinkle  the  lemon  juice  on 
them.  Stir  the  fruit  into  the  tapioca  pudding  and  serve  with 
cream. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS  97 

Date  Pudding 

1  egg  1  cupful  breadcrumbs 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  cupful  dates  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cupful  nuts  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat  the  egg  well  and  add  the  sugar  to  it.  Then  mix  the 
bread  crumbs,  baking  powder,  chopped  dates  and  nuts  and  com- 
bine the  two  mixtures.  Add  the  milk,  vanilla  and  melted  butter. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  well  oiled  baking  dish.  Set  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bake  45  min- 
utes and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  lemon  pudding  sauce. 

Blueberry  Pudding 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  stale  bread  buttered  lightly,  sprinkle 
with  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  fill  the  dish  almost  full  of  blue- 
berries mixed  with  a  little  sugar.  Cover  the  berries  with  slices 
of  bread  buttered  on  both  sides  and  sprinkled  with  salt.  Cover 
the  baking  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Remove  the  cover  just  long  enough  to  brown 
the  top  of  the  padding.  Serve  hot  with  a  pudding  sauce  or  sugar 
and  cream. 

Steamed  Pudding 

^  cupful  shortening  2  cupfuls  flour 

Ys  cupful  raisins  %  teaspoonful  soda 

%  cupful  molasses  Xi  teaspoonful  cloves 

%  cupful  milk  V2  teaspoonful  mace 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  in  the  chopped  raisins  and  mo- 
lasses and  add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  dry  ingredients 
which  have  been  mixed  together.  Place  in  an  oiled  can  and 
steam  3  hours.    Serve  warm  wdth  a  pudding  sauce. 

Cream  Pie 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  cupfuls  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  lard  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg  yolk  %   teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  1  egg  white 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  shortening;  beat  the  egg  yolk  until  very  light  and 
whip  %  cupful  of  sugar  into  this.    Cream  the  other  %  cupful 


98     THE  FARM  COOK  AXD  RULE  BOOK 

of  sugar  with  the  shortening  and  beat  until  light.  Combine  the 
two  mixtures.  Add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  dry  in- 
gredients which  have  been  sifted  together  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  white.  Bake  in  two  layers,  put  together  with  a  cake 
filling  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 

2  cupfuls  flour  1  egg 

6  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  milk  4  tart  apples 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Vo  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Sift  the  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour  together  and  work  in 
the  shortening.  Add  the  egg  yolk  to  the  mixture  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Spread  the  mixture  %  inch  thick  in 
a  shallow  baking  tin.  Wipe,  pare,  quarter  and  core  the  apples. 
Cut  every  quarter  into  two  pieces  lengthwise.  Then  place  them 
in  parallel  rows  on  top  of  the  mixture  with  the  sharp  edge  down. 
Sprinkle  the  apples  with  the  -sugar  and  cinnamon  which  have 
been  mixed  together.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes,  or  until 
the  apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  a  pudding  sauce  or  with 
whipped  cream. 

Indian  Pudding 

%  cupful  milk,  scalded  %  cupful  molasses 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornmeal  %  teaspoonful  salt 

y2  cupful  cold  water  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

14  cupful  sugar  %  teaspoonful  ginger 

1  egg  ^4  cupful  milk 

Stir  the  cornmeal  into  the  cold  water  and  add  the  scalded  milk. 
Cook  20  minutes.  Then  add  the  other  ingredients  except  the 
%  cupful  of  milk.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  35  minutes.  Pour  the  cold  milk  on  top  and 
bake  2  hours  longer  without  stirring. 

Pineapple  Cream 

1  cupful  canned  pineapple  %  pound  marshmallows 

1  cupful  cream  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

14  cupful  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoonful  pineapple  juice 

Drain  the  grated  pineapple.  Whip  the  cream  until  stiff  and 
fold  in  the  powdered  sugar,  the  cut  marshmallows  and  the  fruit 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS  99 

juices.     Then  fold  in  the  pineapple  and  serve  in  dishes  lined 
with  sponge  or  angel  food  cake. 

Berry  Dumplings 

2  cupfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

%  teaspoonful  salt  milk  to  moisten 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  berries 

Work  the  butter  into  the  dry  ingredients  which  have  been 
sifted  together.  Add  sufficient  milk  to  moisten.  Roll  out  i/4 
inch  thick  and  cut  in  circles  with  a  diameter  of  4  or  5  inches. 
Place  1  large  strawberry  or  3  small  ones  or  several  raspberries 
or  blackberries  in  the  center  of  every  circle  and  cover  with  the 
dough,  pressing  the  edges  together  firmly.  Brush  with  milk, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes.  Serve 
with  a  pudding  sauce  or  Berry  Butter. 

King  Apple  Dumplings 

IVo  cupfuls  flour  V2  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

%   teaspoonful  cinnamon  4  tablespoonfuls  shortening 

%  teaspoonful  nutmeg  V2  cupful  cold  water 

2^74  cupfuls  apples 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  thoroughly 
and  work  in  the  shortening,  using  either  butter,  lard  or  a  mix- 
ture of  these  fats.  Add  the  water  and  roll  1/2  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  the  dough  with  chopped  or  sliced  apples,  the  sugar  and 
spice.  Poll  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  off  2-inch  pieces  and  place  in  a 
pudding  dish  cut  side  down.  Pour  a  part  of  the  apple  syrup  on 
them  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


Apple  Syrup 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  cupful  water  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour,  add  the  water,  salt  and  any  pieces 
of  apples  that  were  not  used  in  the  dumplings.  Cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens.  Add  the  butter.  Use  a  part  of  this  when 
baking  the  dumplings  and  the  rest  as  a  sauce  when  serving  the 
dessert. 


100  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Prune  Pudding 

3  cupfuls  cake  crumbs  iy2  cupfuls  cooked  prune  pulp 

1%  cupfuls  whipped  cream  %  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Combine  the  prune  pulp  and  cake  crumbs  and  beat  until  they 
form  a  light  paste.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  whipped  cream  and 
the  lemon  extract.  Set  in  a  cold  place  several  hours  before  serv- 
ing.   Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Fritters 

1  cupful  flour  2  eggs 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2  teaspoonfuls  butter 

%  cupful  milk  fruit 

Mix  together  the  dry  ingredients,  beat  in  the  milk  gradually, 
and  then  stir  in  the  egg  yolks,  beaten  until  they  are  a  light 
lemon  color.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Then  dip  the  fruit  in  this  batter,  drain  it  for  a  moment  and  drop 
it  in  deep  fat.  Fry  until  a  golden  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other  side.  When  cooked,  drain  and  dust  with 
powdered  sugar.  Serve  with  a  hot  pudding  sauce.  Among  the 
fruits  which  may  be  used  are  bananas,  apples,  peaches,  and 
oranges.  In  every  case  pare  or  peel  the  fruit,  slice  the  cored 
apples  in  rings,  divide  the  bananas  into  halves  lengthwise  and 
then  into  quarters,  quarter  the  peaches  and  separate  the  orange 
into  sections  or  cut  in  circles. 

Steamed  Fig  Dessert 

iy2  cupfuls  molasses  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1^   cupfuls   suet,   chopped  1%  teaspoonfuls  soda 

3  cupfuls  chopped  figs  1^2  cupfuls  sour  milk 

1%  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  3  eggs 

3%  cupfuls  flour 

Mix  together  molasses,  suet,  figs  and  spices.  Add  soda  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Add  well  beaten  eggs  and  grad- 
ually stir  in  the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  and  pour  into  an  oiled 
mold.    Steam  2  hours.    Serve  with  a  sweet  pudding  sauce. 

Apple  Pudding 

3  cupfuls  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

6  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  1^  cupfuls  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt  6  apples  cut  in  eighths 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS  101 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  work  in  the  butter  and  add  the  milk. 
Toss  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  out  as  for  biscuits.  Sprinkle 
with  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Place  apples  on  the  dough  and 
sprinkle  them  with  a  dash  of  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Poll  dough 
around  the  apples  and  place  in  a  greased  dish  or  mold.  Cover 
tightly  and  steam  1  hour  and  20  minutes.  Serve  with  a  pudding 
sauce. 

Shortcake 

1  egg  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1/2  cupful  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

%  cupful  milk  1  cupful  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Then 
stir  in  the  well  beaten  egg  yolk  and  add  the  milk  alternately 
with  the  flour  to  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  added.  Fold 
in  the  egg  white  which  is  beaten  stiff  and  bake  in  two  layers. 
Spread  crushed  and  sweetened  berries  between  the  layers  and 
over  the  top  of  the  cake.     Serve  with  cream. 

Chocolate  Dessert 

Yo  cupful  sweet  chocolate  %  cupful  milk 

2  egg  yolks  2  egg  whites 

4  cupfuls  cooky  crumbs 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  when  cooled  slightly, 
stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  the  milk  and  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Break  cookies  in  small  pieces  or  use  crumbs  of  cookies 
or  cake.  Pour  the  chocolate  mixture  over  them  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  for  a  few  hours.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Lucy's  Pudding 

%  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  egg  2  squares  chocolate  or 

^  cupful  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  cocoa 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  well  beaten 
egg  yolk.  Stir  in  the  cocoa  or  the  chocolate  which  has  been 
melted  over  hot  water.  Alternately  add  the  milk  with  dry  in- 
gredients which  have  been  sifted  together  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  white.  Pour  in  an  oiled  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  30  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  hot  or  cold 
with  a  pudding  sauce. 


102  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Plum  Pudding 

^  cupful  suet  %  cupful  sour  milk 

%  cupful  molasses  %  teaspoonful  soda 

14  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  flour 

%  teaspoonful  cinnamon  4  tablespoonfuls  raisins 

14  teaspoonful  cloves  4  tablespoonfuls  cloves 

Chop  the  suet  fine,  wash  and  dry  raisins  and  currants  and 
mix  with  the  flour  and  suet,  first  cutting  the  raisins  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  the  milk  and  molasses  and  to  this  mixture  add  all 
the  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  an  oiled  mold  and  steam  3 
hours.    Serve  hot  with  a  pudding  sauce. 


CHAPTER  16 
CUSTARDS 

A  CUSTARD  is  a  mixture  of  sweetened  and  flavored  milk  and 
eggs  which  is  either  baked  or  cooked  over  water.  In  combining 
the  ingredients  care  should  be  taken  not  to  add  too  much  sugar 
to  the  egg  or  little  yellow  threads  will  appear  through  the  liquid 
w^hen  the  milk  is  added.  The  eggs  should  not  be  beaten  too  light 
because  overheating  causes  a  porous  custard.  To  prevent  lumps, 
pour  the  milk  over  the  eggs  and  stir  constantly. 

Cooking  a  custard  too  long  causes  it  to  curdle.  A  curdled 
custard  may  be  made  smooth  by  beating  with  a  Dover  egg 
beater.  As  soon  as  the  steamed  custard  coats  the  bowl  of  the 
spoon  and  when  a  knife  inserted  in  a  baked  custard  comes  out 
clean,  it  should  be  removed  from  the  heat  to  prevent  overcooking. 
By  stirring  occasionally  during  the  cooling,  a  steamed  custard 
will  not  be  coated. 

Substitutions  in  Custaxd  Making 

Two  egg  yolks  will  thicken  as  much  as  one  egg  and  they  pro- 
duce a  smoother  custard. 

Two  egg  whites  used  instead  of  1  egg  give  a  white  custard. 

Three-fourths  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  may  be  substituted 
for  one  egg. 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour  may  be  used  in  place  of  1  egg. 

Very  thick  custards  are  made  by  decreasing  the  amount  of 
milk,  and  thin  ones  by  adding  more  milk. 

Steamed  Custard 

2  cupfuls  milk  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

3  eggs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  egg  which  has  been  beaten 
with  the  sugar  and  salt.     Place  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler 

103 


104     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

or  in  a  saucepan  over  hot  water  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
custard  will  coat  a  metal  spoon.  Set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and 
when  cool,  add  the  vanilla. 

Steamed  Caramel  Custard 

3  cupfuls  mUk  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

3  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

^  teaspoonful  salt  6  tablespoonfuls  caramelized  sugar 

Dissolve  the  caramelized  sugar  in  the  milk,  scald  and  pour  it 
over  the  egg  which  has  been  beaten  with  the  salt  and  sugar. 
Cook  over  water  until  the  mixture  coats  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
Remove  from  the  stove  at  once  and  set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  to 
cool.    When  cold,  add  the  vanilla. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Custard 

1%  squares  chocolate  %  teaspoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

3  eggs  %  cupful  sugar 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Combine  the  grated  chocolate  with  the  water  and  add  3  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar.  Cook  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and 
glossy.  Then  add  the  heated  milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and  then 
pour  it  over  the  eggs  beaten  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  Add  the 
salt  and  cook  over  water  until  the  back  of  a  spoon  is  coated  with 
the  mixture.  Take  from  the  stove,  set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water 
and  when  cool,  add  the  vanilla. 

Baked  Custard 

3  cupfuls  milk  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

6  eggs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  white  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  cold 
milk  and  flavoring,  pour  into  molds  or  a  pudding  dish,  set  in 
pans  of  cold  water  and  bake  until  a  silver  knife  comes  out  clean 
when  inserted. 

Baked  Caramel  Custard 

3  cupfuls  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

6  eggs  14  teaspoonful  salt 

6  tablespoonfuls  caramelized  sugar      14  teaspoonful  vanilla 


CUSTARDS  105 

Dissolve  the  caramelized  sugar  in  the  hot  milk.  Cool.  Beat 
the  egg  with  the  granulated  sugar  and  the  salt,  pour  on  the 
cooled  milk  and  add  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  molds  or  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  set  in  pans  of  cold  water. 

Baked  Chocalate  Custard 

1%  squares  chocolate  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

3  cupfuls  milk  %  cupful  sugar 

6  eggs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Boil  the  grated  chocolate  with  the  water  and  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  the  choco- 
late to  the  milk.  When  mixed,  cool  and  add  to  the  egg  beaten 
with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  vanilla  and  pour  into  indi- 
vidual molds  or  one  large  one.  Set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and 
bake. 

Raisin  Custard 

2  cupfuls  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

%  cupful  sugar  2  eggs 

%  teaspoonful  salt  Vo  cupful  raisins 

%  teaspoonful    vanilla 

Heat  11/2  cupfuls  milk ;  mix  sugar,  salt  and  flour  with  the  i/^ 
cupful  of  cold  milk.  Combine  the  two  mixtures,  stirring  the 
flour  and  milk  combination  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  over  water 
until  the  mixture  thickens.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  add  the 
beaten  eggs,  raisins  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  an  oiled  baking  dish 
and  bake  from  30  to  35  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with 
cream. 


CHAPTER  17 
FEOZEN  DESSERTS 

The  first  requirement  in  making  good  ice  cream  is  the  use  of 
materials  of  a  high  quality.  Smooth,  rich  cream  or  milk  mix- 
tures produce  velvety  ice  creams,  while  thin,  watery  ones  make 
a  coarse-grained  product.  As  the  freezing  is  taking  place  the  ice 
cream  expands.  Therefore  the  freezer  should  never  be  filled 
more  than  three-fourths  full.  If  it  is,  a  coarse  ice  cream  will  be 
the  result. 

One  part  of  salt  to  3  parts  of  crushed  ice  are  used  in  freezing 
ice  creams  and  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  are  used  in  making 
fruit  ices.  Since  some  of  the  flavor  is  destroyed  in  freezing,  the 
ice  cream  mixture  is  always  flavored  too  highly  and  is  made  a  lit- 
tle too  sweet  for  taste  when  being  poured  into  the  freezer. 

After  the  cream  is  frozen,  the  salt  water  is  drained  off,  the 
dasher  is  removed  and  the  ice  cream  is  packed  down  with  a 
spoon.  The  cover  is  then  adjusted  and  a  cork  placed  in  the 
opening  in  it.  One  part  of  salt  to  4  parts  of  ice  is  used  in  re- 
packing the  freezer. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream 

2  cupfuls  milk  6  egg  yolks 

1  cupful  cream  1  cupful  sugar 

%  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoonful  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk,  pour  slowly  on  the  egg  yolks  which  have  been 
beaten  with  the  sugar  and  stir  constantly  so  the  eggs  will  not 
cook,  but  blend  with  the  hot  milk.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  the  mixture  coats  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon.  Strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl,  chill,  add  the  vanilla  and  cream  and 
freeze. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream 

4  cupfuls  cream  1  tablespoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  freeze. 

106 


FEOZEX  DESSERTS  107 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

4  cupfuls  cream  Vs  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vanilla 
4  tablespoonfuls  cocoa  %  cupful  boiling  water 

Dissolve  the  cocoa  in  the  boiling  water  and  boil  until  the 
mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy,  stirring  constantly.  Add  it  to 
the  cream,  sugar  and  flavoring.    Freeze. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

2  cupfuls  milk  V2  cupful  sugar 

2  eggs  or  4  egg  yolks  ^  cupful  caramelized  sugar 

2  cupfuls  thin  cream 

Scald  the  milk,  dissolve  the  caramelized  sugar  in  it,  pour  this 
over  the  egg  which  has  been  beaten  with  the  granulated  sugar. 
Cook  over  water  until  the  mixture  coats  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
Strain,  chill  and  freeze.  To  caramelize  the  sugar,  stir  it  in  a 
pan  directly  over  the  fire  without  adding  water,  and  stir  until  it 
melts  and  becomes  a  light  brown  color. 

Peach  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  peach  pulp  V2  lemon 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1%  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

1  cupful  water  5  egg  whites 

Put  pared  ripe  peaches  through  a  sieve  until  1  quart  of  pulp 
is  secured.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  with  the  water  a 
few  minutes.  When  cool,  add  it  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
the  vanilla  to  the  peaches.  Mix  and  then  add  the  slightly  beaten 
egg  whites.    Freeze.    The  vanilla  may  be  omitted  if  one  wishes. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream 

6  cupfuls  thin  cream  %  cupful  sugar 

1  cupful  grated  pineapple 

Add  pineapple  to  the  cream  and  let  stand  30  minutes.  Strain, 
add  sugar  and  freeze. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  cupfuls  sugar  syrup 
2  cupfuls  cream  4  cupfuls  berries 

Crush  the  berries  and  combine  with  the  syrup  made  by  boiling 
1  cupful  of  sugar  with  li/^  cupfuls  of  water.     Cool  the  syrup 


108     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

before  adding  it  to  the  berries.  After  the  strawberries  have 
stood  in  the  syrup  30  minutes,  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve, 
add  the  cream  and  freeze  until  the  mixture  is  very  cold,  then 
stir  in  the  milk  and  continue  the  freezing. 

Honey  Cream 

%  cupful  strained  honey  1%  cupfuls  whipped  cream 

4  eggs  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  yolks  slightly,  stirring  in  the 
honey  gradually.  Heat  in  the  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly, 
until  tne  mixture  thickens.  Cool,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
and  the  whipped  cream,  salt  and  vanilla.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt 
and  let  stand  4  or  5  hours. 

Raspberry  Sherbet 

4  cupfuls  water  1  teaspoonful  gelatin 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  tablespoonful  cold  water 

2  cupfuls  raspberry  juice 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  10  minutes.  Add  the  gelatin*which 
has  been  softened  in  the  cold  water.  When  cool,  add  the  rasp- 
berry juice  and  freeze. 

Frozen  Orange  Jelly 

2  cupfuls  orange  juice  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

4  cupfuls  water  1  tablespoonful  gelatin 

2  cupfuls  sugar  2  egg  whites 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  1  cupful  of  the  cold  water  and  boil  the 
rest  of  the  water  with  the  sugar  10  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  add  the  gelatin  and  strain.  Cool  and  then  stir  in  the  fruit 
juices.  Freeze  until  thick,  but  not  hard,  then  stir  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Continue  the  freezing,  remove  the  dasher 
and  pack  for  an  hour  before  serving. 

Grape  Freeze 

2  cupfuls  thick  cream  %  cupful  water 

1  cupful  sweet  milk  1  cupful  grape  jelly 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  tablespoonful  gelatin 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  milk  and  heat  over  water  until  it  is 
dissolved.    Then  add  the  sugar  and  water  which  have  been  boiled 


FROZEN  DESSEETS  109 

together  to  a  fairly  thick  syrup.  Cool.  Whip  the  cream  until 
stiff  and  fold  the  jelly  into  it.  Beat  it  into  the  milk  and  gelatin 
mixture.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4 
hours. 

Apricot  Ice 

1  quart  canned  apricots  2  oupfuls  sugar 

1  quart  water 

Put  the  apricots  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  sugar  and  water 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.    Freeze. 

Orajige  Ice 

3  cupfuls  orange  juice  2  cupfuls  water 

4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  2  cupfuls  sj-rup 

Make  the  syrup  by  boiling  1  cupful  of  sugar  with  II/2  cupfuls 
of  water  5  minutes.  Cool,  mix  with  other  ingredients  and 
freeze. 

Cherry  Ice 

4  cupfuls  cherry  juice  1  quart  water 

4  cupfuls  sugar  2  egg  whites 

2  lemons 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  5  minutes.  Cool,  add  the  fniit 
juices.    When  partly  frozen,  add  the  beaten  egg  whites. 

Pineapple  Ice 

2  cupfuls  shredded  pineapple  1%  cupfuls  cold  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

Mix  water  and  pineapple,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  let  stand  30 
minutes.    Strain,  add  lemon  juice  and  freeze. 


CHAPTER  18 
GELATIN  DISHES 

Gelatin  is  always  soaked  in  cold  water  or  other  liquid  before 
being  added  to  foods.  It  swells  and  then  must  be  dissolved  in 
a  hot  liquid  or  by  being  heated  over  hot  water.  Stirring  helps 
to  hasten  the  dissolving. 

Attractive  results  may  be  obtained  by  molding  gelatin  des- 
serts in  various  shapes.  The  molds  used  for  this  purpose  are 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  without  drying  them  the  gelatin 
mixture  is  poured  in  and  allowed  to  stand  in  a  cold  and  level 
place  until  firm.  In  unmolding  a  knife  blade  is  run  around  the 
edge  of  the  mold,  then  the  mold  is  dipped  quickly  in  hot  water. 
An  inverted  serving  dish  is  placed  on  top  and  both  are  turned 
over.    Then  the  mold  is  lifted  off  carefully. 

Amounts  to  Use 

Allow  1/2  cupful  of  liquid  for  every  person  to  be  served. 

Use  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin  to  4  cupfuls  of 
water. 

Less  liquid  is  used  in  the  gelatin  dish  during  the  warm 
weather  when  fruit  is  added  to  it,  that  is,  3  cupfuls  of  liquid  to 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatin.  The  use  of  more  gelatin 
than  this  hastens  the  setting  of  the  dish  but  produces  a  tough 
mixture  which  frequently  has  a  disagreeable  taste. 

Lemon  Jelly 

iy2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin  1%  cupfuls  boiling  water 

%  cupful  cold  water  1  cupful  lemon  juice 

2  cupfuls  sugar 

Swell  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  lemon  juice  and  hot  water.  Combine  the  two  mixtures. 
Strain  into  wet  molds  and  chill. 

110 


GELATIX  DISHES  111 

Orange  Jelly 

2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin  %  cupful  sugar 

y2  cupful  cold  milk  ^i  teaspoonful  salt 

2^  cupfuls  scalded  milk  1  cupful  orange  juice 

%  cupful  lemon  juice 

Swell  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  sugar  in  the  lemon 
juice.  Combine  the  two  mixtures.  Strain  into  wet  molds  and 
chill. 

Vanilla  Jelly 

2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin  yi  cupful  sugar 

y^  cupful  cold  milk  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2%  cupfuls  scalded  milk  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Swell  gelatin  in  cold  milk  and  dissolve  in  the  scalded  milk. 
Add  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.    Strain  into  wet  molds  and  chill. 

Lemon  Sponge 

1%  tablespoonfuls  granulated  1%  cupfuls  boiling  water 

gelatin  V2  cupful  lemon  juice 

^  cupful  cold  water  %  cupful  sugar 

3  egg  whites 

Swell  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  lemon  juice  and  hot  water.  Combine  the  two  mixtures. 
Strain.  Cool  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  thoroughly,  add 
the  stiifly  beaten  egg  whites  and  beat  until  the  mixture  will  hold 
its  shape.  Pile  in  a  dish  or  mold  and  serve  with  cream  or  a 
boiled  custard. 

Orange  Sponge 

1  tablespoonful  gelatin  %  cupful  orange  juice 

^  cupful  cold  water  %  cupful  lemon  juice 

1  cupful  boiling  water  %  cupful  sugar 

3  egg  whites 

Swell  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  fruit  juices  and  the  hot  water.  Combine  the  two  mixtures 
and  strain.  Cool  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  thoroughly, 
add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  beat  until  the  mixture  will 
hold  its  shape.  Pile  in  dish  or  mold  and  serve  cold  with  cream 
or  with  a  boiled  custard. 


112  THE  FAEM  COOK  AXD  EXILE  BOOK 

Strawberry  Bavarian 

1%  cupfuls  whipping  cream  1  tablespoonful  gelatin 

%  cupful  sugar  ^  cupful  cold  water 

iy2  cupfuls  crushed  berries  %  cupful  boiling  water 

Swell  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  hot  water.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add  the  crushed 
berries.  Cool  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  thor- 
oughly and  stir  in  the  stiffly  whipped  cream,  continuing  the 
whipping  until  the  bavarian  will  hold  its  shape.  Pile  in  a  dish 
or  mold  and  serve  cold.    Decorate  with  a  few  whole  berries. 

Orange  Bavarian 

iy2  cupfuls  cream  1  tablespoonful  gelatin 

%  cupful  sugar  i^   cupful  cold  water 

1^  cupfuls  orange  juice  and  pulp        %  cupful  boiling  water 

Swell  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  hot  water.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add  the  orange 
juice  and  pulp.  Cool  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  add  the  stiffly  whipped  cream,  beating  until  the 
bavarian  will  hold  its  shape.  Pile  in  a  dish  or  mold  and  serve 
cold.    Garnish  with  orange  sections. 

Banana  Bavarian 

1%  cupfuls  cream  4  tablespoonfuls  orange  juice 

1%  cupfuls  banana  pulp  4  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  2  teaspoonfuls  gelatin 

14  cupful  cold  water 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water.  Put  the  banana  pulp 
through  a  sieve  and  heat  over  water.  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
softened  gelatin,  cool  until  lukewarm  and  add  the  fruit  juices. 
When  this  has  thickened  a  little,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream,  pour 
into  slightly  oiled  molds  and  let  stand  until  cold  and  firm. 
Serve  garnished  with  sliced  banana. 

Pineapple  Whip 

1  cupful  grated  pineapple  %  cupful  sugar 

4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  4  eggs 

%  cupful  orange  juice  2  teaspoonfuls  gelatin 

2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water 

Combine  the  fruit  juices  with  the  sugar  and  egg  yolks  and 
heat  in  the  double  boiler  until  the  egg  is  cooked.    Remove  from 


GELATIX  DISHES  113 

the  fire  and  stir  in  the  gelatin  which  has  been  soaking  in  the 
cold  water.  When  cool  enough  to  begin  to  thicken,  beat  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  cold  serving  dish  and  set 
in  a  cold  place  until  ready  to  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 

Peach  Bavarian 

2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin  6  ripe  peaches 

1  cupful  water  V2  cupful  powdered  sugar 

2  cupfuls  cream 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  it  over  boiling 
water.  Add  to  it  the  pulp  of  the  peaches  which  have  been 
pushed  through  a  sieve.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
fold  in  the  stiffly  whipped  cream.     Serve  cold. 

Grape  Bavarian 

2  cupfuls  grape  juice  V2  cupful  cold  water 
2  tablespoonfuls  gelatin                           1  cupful  sugar 

1%  cupfuls  cream 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  it  over  hot 
water.  Stir  in  the  sugar  and  grape  juice  and  when  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream. 


CHAPTEE  19 

EGGS  AND  CHEESE 

The  whites  of  eggs  and  cheese  are  composed  largely  of  protein, 
a  substance  which  becomes  hard  and  tough  when  intense  heat 
is  applied  to  it.  For  this  reason  these  foods  are  cooked  at  as  low 
a  temperature  as  is  possible  and  for  as  short  a  time  as  will  make 
them  palatable. 

Soft  Cooked  Eggs 

Pour  boiling  water  over  eggs,  using  %  cupful  of  water  to 
every  egg.  Draw  to  a  cool  part  of  the  range  and  let  stand  from 
8  to  10  minutes. 

Hard  Cooked  Eggs 

Prepare  as  soft  cooked  eggs  only  let  stand  from  30  to  40 
minutes. 

Baked  Eggs 

Cut  6  large,  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  one-inch  squares  and  place 
them  in  a  dripping  pan.  Set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  In  5 
minutes  turn  the  bacon  squares  and  cook  on  the  other  side. 
Then  remove  the  pan  from  the  oven  and  break  6  eggs,  taking 
care  not  to  break  the  yolks,  on  top  of  the  bacon,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve 
immediately. 

Eggs  with  Cheese 

Take  1  cupful  of  stale  cheese,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  arrange 
%  cupful  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish.  Break 
6  eggs,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks,  on  top  of  the  cheese, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  the  rest  of  the  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  15 
minutes  and  serve  hot  from  the  baking  dish. 

114 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE  115 

Coddled  Eggs 

6  eggs  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2^4  cupfuls  milk  V2  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  pepper 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  slightly  beaten  eggs. 
Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  of  a  soft,  creamy 
consistency.    Add  the  seasonings  and  serve  with  buttered  toast. 

Plain  Omelet 

5  eggs  ^  teaspoonful  pepper 

4  tablespoonfuls  water  IV2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  tablespoonful  butter 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  light  and  lemon  colored.  Add  the 
salt,  pepper  and  water.  Heat  a  large  frying  pan  and  melt  the 
butter  in  it.  Fold  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  into  the  yolk 
mixture  and  pour  it  into  the  frying  pan.  Cook  gently,  lifting 
the  omelet  around  the  edges  with  a  knife.  When  it  is  set,  brown 
on  the  bottom  and  then  place  in  an  oven  so  it  will  dry  on  top. 
Fold  over  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter. 

Fancy  Omelets 

Before  folding  the  omelet  various  foods  may  be  spread  on 
top.  Among  them  are  these :  4  tablespoonfuls  chopped  ham  or 
other  cooked  meat,  slightly  thickened  canned  tomatoes,  creamed 
chicken  or  dried  beef,  creamed  peas,  creamed  asparagus  or 
creamed  onions.  Cheese  sauce  may  be  used  in  the  fold  or  the 
plain  omelet  may  be  served  on  a  bed  of  creamed  vegetables. 

Potato  Omelet 

1%  cupfuls  boiled  potatoes  4  eggs 

%  teaspoonful  onion  juice  4  tablespoonfuls  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Cut  the  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  small  cubes,  add  the  onion 
juice  and  turn  into  a  frying  pan  in  which  the  butter  has  been 
melted.  Cook  the  potatoes,  stirring  constantly,  until  they  are 
hot  and  slightly  browned.  Beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  water, 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  potatoes.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes;  then  move  the  pan  to  distribute  the  uncooked  egg. 
When  all  the  egg  is  cooked,  roll  and  turn  on  a  hot  dish. 


116  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Bread  and  Jelly  Omelet 

4  eggs  1  tablespoonful  butter 

%  cupful  milk  V2  cupful  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

jelly 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  until  the  milk  is  absorbed. 
Add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  salt  and  pepper  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Cook  as  a  plain  omelet.  Spread  with  jelly 
before  folding  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Rice  Omelet 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  3  eggs 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  butter  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light  and  add  to  them  the  warm  rice, 
heated  milk,  melted  butter  and  the  seasonings.  Pour  in  an  oiled 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  folding  over  once. 

Shirred  Eggs 

Break  eggs  into  oiled  individual  molds  or  ramekins,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  generously  with  coarse  bread 
crumbs.  Place  a  few  dots  of  butter  or  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  on 
top  of  every  egg.  Set  the  ramekins  in  a  pan  of  warm  water, 
place  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set  and  the  crumbs 
are  delicately  browned. 

Tomato  Eggs 

Follow  the  directions  for  making  shirred  eggs,  only  place  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  in  every  ramekin  before  breaking 
the  egg  into  it. 

Scalloped  Eggs 

6  hard  cooked  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  milk  14  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  i/^  cupful  bread  crumbs 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter 

Make  a  sauce  by  thickening  the  heated  milk  with  the  flour, 
which  is  mixed  thoroughly  with  the  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  hard  cooked  eggs  in  thin 
slices  and  arrange  a  layer  of  them  in  the  bottom  of  an  oiled 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE  117 

baking  dish.  Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  on  top  and  continue  this 
process  until  all  the  egg  and  sauce  are  used.  Cover  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs  which  have  been  mixed  with  1  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter.    Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Eggs  with  Peas 

5  eggs  %  teaspoonful  black  pepper 

^  cupful  milk  1  cupful  cooked  peas 

y2  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  with  a  spoon  until  a  full  spoonful  can  be  lifted. 
Add  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
and  turn  in  the  egg  mixture.  Stir  constantly  and  cook  until  the 
egg  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  the  peas  and  continue  to  cook 
and  scrape  until  creamy  throughout.  Turn  on  a  hot  plate  and 
serve  at  once. 

Rarebit 

2  cupfuls  grated  cheese  1  teaspoonful  salt 

%  cupful  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  mustard  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

speck  of  cayenne 

Put  the  cheese  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler  or  in  a  saucepan 
over  hot  water.  Mix  the  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne,  add  the 
eggs  and  beat  thoroughly.  When  the  cheese  is  melted,  stir  in 
the  egg  mixture  and  the  butter.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  fre- 
quently.   Pour  over  toasted  bread  or  crackers  and  serve  at  once. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

2  cupfuls  cooked  macaroni  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  milk  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  cupful  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Thicken  the  hot  milk  with  the  flour  which  is  mixed  thor- 
oughly with  the  butter  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange 
the  macaroni,  thickened  milk  and  grated  cheese  in  layers  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  browned. 

Cheese  Fondu 

1  cupful  scalded  milk  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  pound  mild  cheese  3  egg  yolks 

3  egg  whites 


118     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Mix  the  milk,  bread  crumbs,  the  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces, 
melted  butter  and  salt  together.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  light 
and  lemon  colored  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cheese  Balls 

3  cupfuls  grated  cheese  4  egg  whites 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  %  teaspoonful  pepper 
%  teaspoonful  salt                                   cracker  crumbs 

Mix  cheese,  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  shape  in  balls  and  roll  in  the  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  until 
brown  in  deep  fat. 

Cheese  Souffle 

1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  ^  teaspoonful  pepper 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter                            3  eggs 

1  cupful  grated  cheese 

Thicken  the  hot  milk  with  the  flour  which  is  mixed  thoroughly 
with  the  butter.  Add  the  seasonings  and  the  grated  cheese. 
When  the  cheese  is  melted,  add  the  egg  yolks  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Turn  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  set 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
browned. 

Cottage  Cheese 

3  quarts  sour  milk  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  pepper 

Pour  the  milk  in  a  crock  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  (about 
98  degrees  Fahrenheit).  When  the  curd  is  separated  from  the 
whey,  strain  through  a  cloth  and  shake  until  dry.  Stir  in  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  and  cool  before  serving. 


CHAPTER  20 

FILLINGS  AXD  ICINGS 

Fillings  and  icings  not  only  make  the  cake  more  attractive 
but  they  also  increase  its  palatabilit}\  Fancy  cakes  may  be 
made  by  decorating  the  icing  with  candied  cherries,  designs  cut 
from  candied  orange  peel,  the  use  of  small  candied  cherries  and 
by  forcing  icings  colored  with  vegetable  colorings  through  pastry 
tubes. 

Icing  the  Cake 

Unless  the  cake  is  symmetrical,  trim  it  to  obtain  the  desired 
shape.  Then  place  a  filling  or  icing  between  the  layers  and  last 
of  all  ice  the  top  and  sides.  Let  the  cake  stand  in  a  warm  room 
until  the  icing  is  dry.  In  dipping  small  cup  cakes  or  cookies  in. 
icing,  they  may  be  placed  on  a  knitting  needle  while  being 
coated. 

Boiled  Icing 

1  cupful  sugar  1  egg  white 

%  cupful  water  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  washing 
off  the  sugary  sides  of  the  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  soft  cloth 
moistened  in  cold  water  and  tied  over  the  tines  of  a  silver  fork. 
Beat  the  egg  white  until  stiff  and  dry  and  add  slowly  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  boiling  syrup,  beating  constantly.  Then  add  4 
more  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  syrup  and  beat  constantly.  Allow 
the  rest  of  the  syrup  to  cook  until  it  forms  a  long  thread  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon.  In  making  this  test  remove  the  pan  of 
syrup  from  the  stove,  insert  the  spoon  in  the  syrup,  taking  care 
not  to  stir  it,  and  lift  up  the  spoon  so  the  syrup  can  drop  off. 
If  it  spins  a  thread  10  inches  long,  it  has  cooked  sufficiently,  but 
if  not,  it  is  returned  to  the  fire  and  tested  frequently.     The 

119 


120     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

right  consistency  is  reached  usually  when  the  thermometer  reg- 
isters 240  degrees  Fahrenheit.  When  the  syrup  is  ready,  it  is 
added  in  a  fine  stream  to  the  egg  white  which  is  beaten  con- 
stantly. The  flavoring  is  added.  The  icing  is  beaten  until 
almost  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 

When  Icing  Is  Too  Soft 

If  the  cooled  boiled  frosting  is  too  thin  to  spread  on  the  cake, 
the  dish  containing  it  may  be  set  over  hot  water.  Fold  the  icing 
over  and  over  with  the  spoon  until  it  becomes  stiff  enough  to 
hold  its  shape  or  begins  to  get  sugary  on  the  sides  of  the  dish. 
Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  fold  over  and  over  until  cool. 
Spread  on  the  cake  quickly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Fudge  Frosting 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  cupful  milk 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  when  melted,  add  sugar  and 
milk.  Stir  to  prevent  the  sugar  sticking  to  the  bottom,  heat 
to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  without  stirring  until  a  firm  soft 
ball  is  formed  when  a  little  of  the  syrup  is  dropped  in  cold 
water  or  until  the  mixture  reaches  238  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Ke- 
move  from  the  fire,  cool,  add  flavoring  and  beat  until  of  the  right 
consistency  to  spread. 

Chocolate  Fudge  Frosting 

To  Fudge  Frosting  add  from  2  to  3  squares  of  chocolate  as 
soon  as  the  boiling  point  is  reached. 

Cream  Fudge  Frosting 

Use  %  cupful  of  cream  instead  of  the  milk  in  making  Fudge 
or  Chocolate  Fudge  Frosting. 


Brown  Sugar  Fudge  Frosting 

Use  brown  sugar  instead  of  the  white  in  making  Fudge  Frost- 


ing. 


FILLINGS  AND  ICINGS  121 

Maple  Fudge  Frosting 

IJse  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  %  cupful 
of  maple  sugar  and  1/2  cupful  of  milk.  Make  like  Fudge  Frost- 
ing. If  any  Fudge  Frosting  becomes  too  hard  before  being 
spread  on  a  cake,  it  may  be  stirred  over  hot  water  until  soft  and 
then  spread  on  the  cake  with  a  spoon. 

Cream  Frosting 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  cupful  milk 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Melt  butter  in  a  pan  and  add  sugar  and  milk.  Stir  to  make 
certain  that  the  sugar  does  not  adhere  to  the  pan,  heat  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  boil  without  stirring  until  a  soft  ball  forms 
when  a  small  amount  of  the  syrup  is  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Eemove  from  the  fire,  cool,  add  the  vanilla  and  beat  until  the 
frosting  becomes  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  If  this  frost- 
ing becomes  too  hard  before  being  spread  on  the  cake,  it  may  be 
stirred  over  hot  water  until  soft  enough  to  be  spread  on  the  cake 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Chocolate  Cream  Frosting 

Add  from  2  to  3  squares  of  chocolate  to  the  Cream  Frosting  as 
soon  as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point. 

Maple  Cream  Frosting 

Add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  use  V2  cupful  of  maple 
sugar  and  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  and  make  like  Cream 
Frosting. 

Creamy  Cream  Frosting 

Use  %  cupful  of  thin  cream  instead  of  milk  in  making  Cream 
Frosting. 

Chocolate  Filling 

2  squares  chocolate  3  tablespoonfuls  milk 

1  cupful  powdered  sugar  1  egg  yolk 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  warm  water.  Add  the  sugar  and  milk 
and  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolk.    Cook  over  water  mitil  thick  and 


122     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

creamy,  stirring  constantly.    Cool  slightly  and  add  vanilla  just 
before  spreading. 

Brown  Sugar  Filling 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 
%  cupful  milk  V2  cupful  nuts 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  the  mixture  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  creamy.    Add  chopped  nuts  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Lemon  Filling 

3  egg  yolks  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 
1  egg  white                                                juice  of  2  lemons 

1  cupful  sugar  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  the  one  egg  white  with  the  sugar  until 
light,  add  the  butter  and  lemon  juice  and  cook  over  warm  water 
until  thick.    Add  vanilla  and  cool. 

Caramel  Frosting 

14  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  %  cupful  sugar  caramelized 

1  teaspoonful  butter 

Cook  milk  and  granulated  sugar  together.  When  boiling  add 
the  hot  caramelized  sugar,  which  has  been  prepared  by  melting 
%  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  frying  pan  without  adding 
any  water.  The  sugar  must  be  stirred  constantly  while  being 
melted  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Cook  mixture  of  milk  and 
sugars  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Then  remove  from  the  stove,  add 
butter  and  flavoring,  and  beat  the  icing  until  creamy  and  thick 
enough  to  spread. 

Lightning  Icing 

2  squares  chocolate  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 
1  teaspoonful  butter  powdered  sugar 

few   drops  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  small  pan  placed  over  hot  water.  Add 
the  butter  and  hot  water  and  stir  in  the  sugar  gradually  until 
the  mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Then  add  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla  or  some  other  flavoring. 


FILLINGS  AND  ICINGS  123 

Honey  Icing 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  %  cupful  hot  water 

%  cupful  honey  2  egg  whites 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon.  Add  the  honey  slowly  and  remove  the 
icing  from  the  stove.  Have  the  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  pour 
the  hot  syrup  over  them  slowly,  beating  until  the  icing  holds  its 
shape. 

Marshmallow  Icing 

1  cupful  sugar  Vs  cupful  milk 

%  pound  marshmallows  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 

^  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Stir  sugar  in  milk,  boil  slowly  10  minutes.  Cut  the  marsh- 
mallows  in  small  pieces  with  the  kitchen  scissors.  Pour  the 
water  over  them  and  cook  the  mixture  slowly  until  smooth. 
Then  add  the  sugar  syrup  in  a  thin  stream,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Beat  until  smooth  and  of  the  consistency  to  spread.  Add  the 
vanilla. 

Sour  Cream  Icing 

%  cupful  sour  cream  2  cupfuls  sugar 

%  teaspoonful  flavoring 

Boil  the  cream  and  sugar  together  until  the  mixture  threads 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Cool  until  tepid  and  beat  until  the 
mixture  is  creamy  and  thick  enough  to  spread. 


Ftvdt  Filling 

%  pound  figs  V2  cupful  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice 

Chop  the  figs  fine  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients.    Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Date  Filling 

%  pound  dates  ^  cupful  water 

1  cupful  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice 

Stone  the  dates  and  cut  in  small  pieces.    Mix  ingredients  and 
cook  to  a  paste. 


124     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Orange  Icing 

Moisten  powdered  sugar  with  orange  juice  until  the  mixture 
is  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Orange  Filling 

Mix  %  cupful  sugar,  2%  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  the 
grated  rind  of  1  small  orange  together  and  combine  with  ^  cup- 
ful of  orange  juice,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  1  egg  slightly 
beaten  and  1  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Cook  10  minutes  in 
a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.    Cool  before  using. 


CHAPTER  21 

FRUITS 

The  purpose  of  cooking  fruits  is  to  soften  them  and  to  pro- 
vide a  change  in  flavor.  Before  cooking  dried  fruits  they  are 
soaked  several  hours  in  water.  The  liquid  in  which  they  are 
soaked  is  used  in  the  cooking,  which  should  be  slow  and  gentle. 
Spices  may  be  added  to  cooked  fruit  for  variety  if  one  wishes. 

Baked  Apples 

Wash,  wipe,  pare  and  core  tart  apples.  Put  in  a  dripping  pan 
or  baking  dish,  fill  the  cavities  of  the  apples  with  sugar  and 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  fruit  is  soft,  basting  every  10  minutes  with  the 
syrup  in  the  pan.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  or  without  sugar  and 
cream. 

Baked  Apple  Variations 

Add  1  drop  of  lemon  juice  to  the  cavity  in  every  apple. 

Fill  the  cavity  with  chopped  nuts,  raisins  and  brown  sugar 
instead  of  granulated  sugar. 

Fill  the  center  with  small  red  cinnamon  candy  instead  of 
sugar  and  serve  with  cream. 

Use  chopped  marshmallows  in  the  cavities,  adding  it  just  be- 
fore the  apples  are  tender  and  after  the  sugar  has  melted.  Be- 
fore removing  the  fruit  from  the  oven,  place  a  marshmallow  on 
top  of  every  apple  and  have  the  oven  slow  enough  to  brown  it 
without  burning. 

Raisins  and  sugar  may  be  used  in  the  centers. 

A  fruit  syrup  may  be  used.  To  make  it,  boil  1  cupful  of  sugar, 
2  cupfuls  of  water,  the  juice  and  rind  of  V2  lemon  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  together.  Add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
raisins  to  the  syrup  after  it  has  boiled  5  minutes  and  let  simmer 

125 


126     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

until  the  syrup  is  thick.     Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  bake. 
When  cold,  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Boiled  Apples 

6  apples  1  cupful  water 

%  cupful  sugar  1  lemon 

Put  the  sugar,  water  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon  in 
a  saucepan.  Boil  until  the  syrup  thickens.  Then  add  the  pared 
and  quartered  apples  and  simmer  until  they  are  clear  and  trans- 
parent. Lift  them  from  the  syrup  carefully  and  place  in  a  large 
dish.    Top  with  whipped  cream. 

Apple  Sauce 

8  large  apples  %  cupful  sugar 

%  cupful  water 

Wash,  pare  and  core  the  apples.  Place  them  in  a  crock  with 
water  and  sugar.  Cover  and  bake  until  a  pretty  red  in  a  slow 
oven. 

Mammy's  Baked  Apples 

6  large  apples  6  thin  slices  lemon 

1  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  water 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  the  ripe  apples.  Place  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  add  the  lemon 
slices  and  butter  and  pour  on  the  water.  Cook  on  the  stove 
long  enough  to  form  a  heavy  syrup.  This  usually  requires  15 
minutes.  Place  the  cover  on  the  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  30  minutes.    Serve  with  lemon  or  vanilla  pudding  sauce. 

Apples  En  Casserole 

4  cupfuls  sliced  apples  %  cupful  water 

2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  1^  cupfuls  brown  sugar 
%  cupful  butter  1%  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

Melt  the  butter  and  stir  the  bread  crumbs  into  it.  Arrange  a 
layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish  or  casserole. 
Add  a  thick  layer  of  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon, 
cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  crumb  mixture  and  continue  this 
process  until  the  material  is  used  up,  having  the  top  layer  of 
crumbs.    Add  the  water  and  bake  35  minutes. 


FKUITS  127 

Stewed  Prunes 

%  pound  prunes  1  cupful  granulated  sugar 

4  cupfuls  cold  water  2  whole  cloves 

Wash  the  prunes  and  let  soak  overnight  in  the  4  cupfuls  of 
water.  In  the  morning  cook  gently  in  the  same  water  in  which 
they  were  soaked,  adding  the  sugar  and  cloves  just  before  the 
prunes  are  tender.    Chill  before  serving. 

Orange  Flavored  Prunes 

%  pound  prunes  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  orange  2  cupfuls  water 

After  washing  and  soaking  the  prunes,  simmer  until  they 
begin  to  get  tender.  Add  the  yellow  peel  of  the  orange  cut  in 
long,  narrow  strips.  Add  the  sugar  and  cook  10  minutes.  Re- 
move the  fniit  from  the  stove  and  add  the  orange  juice.  Serve 
very  cold. 

Baked  Rhubarb 

2  cupfuls  rhubarb  1%  cupfuls  sugar 

Wash  the  rhubarb,  cut  in  %  i^ich  pieces  without  removing  the 
outer  skin.  Put  into  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  tender. 

Stewed  Cranberries 

4  cupfuls  cranberries  1  cupful  water 

2  cupfuls  sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries.  Put  into  a  saucepan  and 
add  hot  water.  Cover  and  boil  10  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and 
boil  up  again.    Skim  and  cool. 

Fruit  Salpicon 

Fse  equal  amounts  of  orange,  pineapple,  grapefruit  and  white 
cherries  and  %  as  much  banana  as  any  other  fruit.  Dice,  chill, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve  in  tall  sherbet  glasses. 

Fried  Apples 

Wash  apples,  cut  in  slices  and  fry  in  a  skillet  containing  a 
little  butter.    Add  salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 


CHAPTER  22 

MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH 

Meat  is  either  seared  on  the  outer  surfaces  or  plunged  into 
boiling  water  when  cooked.  Then  the  heat  is  reduced  during 
the  rest  of  the  cookery.  In  the  first  part  of  the  process  the  outer 
surface  is  coagulated  so  the  inner  juices  cannot  be  lost  in  the 
cooking.  Since  dry  heat  hardens  the  connective  tissue,  tough 
pieces  should  be  boiled,  stewed  or  cooked  some  other  way  in 
moist  heat.  Salt  is  added  after  the  meat  has  been  seared  or 
plunged  in  hot  water.  If  added  before  this,  it  extracts  some  of 
the  juices  which  give  meat  its  flavor. 

Roast  Beef 

Choose  a  compact  piece  of  meat  and  wipe  with  a  small  cloth 
moistened  in  water.  Place  on  the  rack  in  a  roasting  pan  and 
put  in  a  hot  oven  without  covering.  When  well  seared,  or  in 
about  15  minutes,  remove  from  the  oven  long  enough  to  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  cover  on  the  roaster  and  set  the 
meat  back  in  the  oven.  Finish  the  cooking  at  a  lowered  tem- 
perature, allowing  15  minutes  for  rare  meat,  20  minutes  for 
medium  and  25  minutes  for  well  done,  to  each  pound.  If  a 
roasting  pan  is  not  available,  one  may  be  made  by  using  a  drip- 
ping pan  and  covering  it  with  a  smaller  pan.  A  rack  may  be 
made  of  a  toaster,  cake  rack  or  kettle  lid. 

Roast  Pork 

Roast  as  roast  beef,  cooking  until  well  done  throughout. 

Roast  Veal 

Roast  as  roast  beef,  seasoning  more  highly. 

128 


MEATS,  POULTEY  AND  FISH  129 

Rump  Roast 

Sprinkle  a  4-pound  rump  roast  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
l^  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put  into 
a  roasting  pan  or  earthenware  vessel  and  pour  1  cupful  of  catchup 
over  it.  Cover  and  bake  3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
one  side  becomes  browned,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  one. 
Make  gravy  from  the  drippings  after  the  meat  is  placed  on  a 
platter  to  be  served. 

Baked  Hamburg 

1%  pounds  beef  1%  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion 

1  egg  iM,  teaspoonfuls  salt 

%  teaspoonful  pepper 

Grind  meat  in  food  cutter,  beat  egg  slightly  and  mix  the  in- 
gredients thoroughly.  Shape  into  a  compact  loaf  and  bake  in  an 
oven  as  a  roast. 

Swiss  Steak 

Rub  salt  and  pepper  into  a  piece  of  round  steak  cut  1%  inches 
thick.  Then  pound  flour  into  the  steak  with  the  edge  of  a  saucer, 
using  as  much  flour  as  the  meat  will  take  up.  Place  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  small  amount  of  hot  fat.  Brown  on  both  sides  and 
add  water  to  cover.  Cover  tightly  and  simmer  until  tender. 
The  cooking  may  be  done  in  the  oven  after  the  browning  if  one 
wishes. 

Roast  Loin  Pork 

Select  parts  from  two  loins  containing  the  ribs  and  trim  off 
the  backbone.  Shape  each  piece  into  a  semicircle,  having  the 
ribs  outside,  and  sew  pieces  together  to  form  a  crown.  Trim 
ends  of  the  bones  evenly,  taking  care  that  they  are  not  too  long. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  dredge  with  flour  and  place  in  a  roasting 
pan  on  a  rack,  if  one  is  available,  with  the  bones  down.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  2  hours,  basting  every  20  minutes  with  the  fat  in 
the  pan  which  comes  from  the  trimmings  of  pork  fat  placed 
under  the  meat.  When  cooked,  remove  to  a  platter  and  surround 
with  baked  apples. 


130     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Braised  Heart 

Wash  a  calf's  heart  weighing  2  pounds  and  remove  the  veins, 
arteries  and  clotted  blood.  Stuff  with  a  dressing  made  by  mix- 
ing together  %  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  %  cupful  of  hot  water, 
1  teaspoonful  of  ground  sage,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  red  pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Sew  together  at  the  top,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in 
flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Place  in  a  small  deep  baking  dish, 
fill  the  pan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  bake 
slowly  2  hours,  basting  three  or  four  times  every  hour.  Remove 
the  heart  from  the  pan  and  set  it  on  a  platter  in  a  warm  place. 
Thicken  the  liquor  left  in  the  pan  with  flour  mixed  to  a  thin 
paste  with  a  little  cold  water,  using  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to 
every  cupful  of  liquid.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour 
around  the  heart  before  serving. 

Irish  Stew 

5  pounds  mutton  *  %  onion 

4  cupfuls  potatoes  %  cupful  flour 

%  cupful  turnips  salt 

%  cupful  carrots  pepper 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  fat.  Try  out 
the  fat  and  brown  the  meat  in  it.  When  well  browned,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  boil  for  5  minutes  and  then  cook  at  a  lower 
temperature  until  the  meat  is  done.  Add  the  vegetables,  which 
have  been  cut  in  small  cubes,  and  the  salt  during  the  last  hour 
of  cooking,  the  potatoes  being  added  15  minutes  before  serving. 
Thicken  with  flour  diluted  with  cold  water.  Serve  with 
dumplings. 

Scotch  Stew 

2  necks  mutton  2  tablespoonfuls  suet 
1  onion  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 
4  cupfuls  strained  tomatoes  1  bay  leaf 

Cut  the  necks  into  small  pieces.  Put  suet  into  a  kettle  and 
shake  on  the  stove  until  melted.  Remove  cracklings,  add  mutton 
and  sear  in  the  fat.  Draw  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  add  flour  to 
fat  and  mix,  add  tomatoes,  stir  until  boiling,  add  seasonings, 
cover  and  simmer  gently  1%  hours. 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  131 

Veal  Jelly 

Cover  a  knuckle  of  veal  broken  in  small  pieces  with  boiling 
water  and  let  simmer  until  tender,  together  with  a  few  slices 
of  carrot,  half  an  onion  and  a  stalk  of  celery.  Drain,  reserving 
the  broth,  remove  all  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  return  the 
gristle  and  bones  to  the  broth.  Simmer  until  1  cupful  of  broth 
is  left.  Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  the  meat  is  almost 
cold,  cut  in  tiny  cubes  or  put  through  the  food  grinder.  Re- 
move the  fat  from  the  broth,  reheat  and  stir  the  veal  into  it, 
adding  salt,  pepper  and  any  other  seasonings  desired.  Decorate 
a  mold  with  hard  cooked  eggs,  which  have  been  sliced,  pour  the 
veal  mixture  into  this,  cover  with  oiled  paper,  press  down  with 
a  weight  and  let  stand  until  the  jelly  is  cold  and  firm.  Serve 
sliced  very  thin. 

Beef  Jelly- 
Soak  %  tablespoonful  of  gelatin  in  ^4:  cupful  of  cold  water  30 
minutes.  Put  enough  cold  boiled  beef  through  a  chopper  to 
make  1  cupful;  to  this  add  1  small  tomato  peeled  and  chopped 
fine  or  one  firm  canned  tomato  cut  in  bits,  I/2  tablespoonful  of 
grated  onion,  I/2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Add 
y^  cupful  of  boiling  water  to  the  gelatin.  When  it  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  add  it  to  the  beef  mixture.  Stir  all  together  well, 
turn  into  a  mold  which  has  been  wet  in  cold  water,  and  when 
cold,  cut  into  slices  and  serve. 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef 

Wipe  a  3  or  4  pound  piece  of  shoulder  meat  with  a  piece  of 
soft  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Rub  salt  and  flour  over  it 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Sear  the  entire  surface  in  hot  grease 
from  salt  fat  pork  and  place  in  a  baking  dish  or  kettle.  Add 
%  to  %  cupful  of  hot  water,  cover  and  cook  slowly  4  hours, 
adding  more  water  as  needed  and  turning  three  times  during 
cooking.  If  the  cooking  is  done  in  a  baking  dish,  set  it  in  the 
oven ;  if  in  a  kettle,  cook  on  top  of  the  stove. 

Pot  Roast  with  Vegetables 

Wash  and  scrape  4  carrots,  cut  in  1  inch  slices,  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 


132     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

and  butter.  Wash,  pare  and  soak  10  small  potatoes  of  uniform 
size  and  cut  in  fourths  lengthwise ;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
to  cover.  Drain  when  tender  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Remove 
meat  to  a  hot  platter,  place  potatoes  at  one  end  and  carrots  at 
the  other.    Serve  with  gravy. 

Ham  Baked  in  Cider 

Scrape  the  ham  with  the  dull  edge  of  a  knife  and  wash  thor- 
oughly in  hot  water,  using  a  brush  if  one  is  available.  Soak  it 
in  cold  water  overnight.  Rinse  carefully  in  the  morning  and 
place  on  the  stove  in  a  large  kettle  with  sufficient  fresh  water  to 
cover.  Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  skimming  off  the  scum 
as  it  appears.  Then  add  6  whole  cloves,  6  allspice  berries  and  1 
small  red  pepper  pod.  Simmer,  but  do  not  boil  rapidly,  until 
the  ham  is  so  tender  that  it  may  be  pierced  with  a  fork.  Keep 
the  ham  covered  with  water  all  the  time.  When  tender,  remove 
the  kettle  from  the  stove  and  let  the  ham  cool  in  the  liquor. 
Then  drain  it  and  trim  off  the  surplus  fat,  the  skin  and  all 
uneven  pieces.  Pour  1%  quarts  of  sweet  cider  over  the  ham  and 
let  it  soak  in  this  8  hours  or  overnight.  Wipe  dry,  stick  in 
whole  cloves  to  make  a  pattern,  brush  lightly  with  beaten  egg 
and  sprinkle  generously  with  a  mixture  made  by  combining  equal 
parts  of  brown  sugar  and  bread  crumbs.  Place  the  ham  in  a 
baking  pan,  pour  cider  about  it  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until 
it  is  neatly  browned.  This  takes  from  1  to  2  hours,  depending 
on  the  size  of  the  ham.  Baste  frequently  with  the  cider  during 
the  baking. 

Pi^s  in  Blankets 

Wipe  dry  large  oysters  and  wrap  every  one  in  a  slice  of  thin 
bacon,  fastening  the  bacon  on  with  a  toothpick.  Place  in  a  pan 
and  set  in  the  oven  and  toast  until  the  bacon  is  brown. 

Flank  Steak  en  Casserole 

1  flank  steak  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

1  cupful  buttered  crumbs  1^  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1  cupful  strained  tomatoes  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  teaspoonful  onion  juice  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

2  cupfuls  hot  water  ^  teaspoonful  cloves 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  133 

Score  the  steak  closely  on  both  sides,  put  the  seasonings  into 
it  and  mix  the  bread  crumbs  and  tomatoes  and  spread  over  one 
side  of  the  steak.  Eoll  and  skewer.  Sear.  Place  in  a  casserole. 
Pour  on  water  or  stock,  cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  1 
hour.  Lift  up  steak,  thicken  drippings  to  make  gravy  and  pour 
over  the  steak. 

Mexican  Beef 

2  cupfuls  boiled  rice  1  onion 

4  cupfuls  tomatoes  %  pound  round  beef,  chopped 

1  green  pepper  3  tablespoonfuls  fat 

1%  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Add  the  cooked  and  strained  tomatoes  to  the  rice.  Place  the 
fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  chopped  onion  in  this.  Then 
add  the  green  pepper  cut  in  bits  and  the  chopped  meat.  Stir 
in  the  rice  and  tomato  mixture  and  add  the  salt.  Cook  20  min- 
utes. 

Sausage  Stuffed  Apples 

Select  large  rosy  red  apples  and  scoop  out  the  pulp,  leaving 
a  thick  shell.  Chop  or  grind  the  apple  pulp  which  was  removed, 
add  1/2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  mix  thoroughly  with  cooked 
sausage.  Fill  the  apples  with  this  mixture  and  bake  in  a  medium 
oven  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Serve  with  baked  or  bTowned 
potatoes. 

Ham  with  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  8  potatoes  and  steam  or  boil  in  salted  water 
until  tender.  Cut  in  tiny  cubes  and  mix  with  IV2  cupfuls  of 
ham  which  has  been  put  through  a  grinder  or  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Season  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
pepper  and  a  dash  of  onion  juice.  Beat  2  eggs  until  light,  add 
4  cupfuls  of  milk  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Place 
the  potatoes  and  ham  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  pour  on  the 
milk  mixture.    Bake  until  set,  which  requires  about  1  hour. 

Old-fashioned  Scrapple 

Add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  4I/2  cupfuls  of  rapidly  boiling 
water  and  add  II/2  cupfuls  of  cornmeal  very  slowly  while  stir- 
ring constantly.     When  all  the  meal  has  been  added,  let  the 


134     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

mixture  boil  3  minutes,  then  set  over  water,  in  a  double  boiler 
if  one  is  available,  to  cook  2  or  3  hours.  Stir  2  cupfuls  of 
sausage  through  this  mush.  Let  cook  20  minutes  longer;  then 
empty  into  a  pan  first  moistened  in  water.  When  cold  and  firm, 
cut  in  slices,  dip  in  flour  and  brown  in  fat. 

Hamburg  Balls 

Put  1  pound  of  round  steak  through  the  food  grinder  and  sea- 
son highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Shape  into  balls  and  broil  in  a  frying  pan. 

Dried  Beef  Gravy 

y^  pound  chipped  beef  4  tablespoonfuls  flour 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  cupfuls  milk 

Brown  the  butter  lightly  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  beef 
which  has  been  pulled  into  small  pieces.  Stir  until  the  meat  is 
frizzled.  Add  the  flour  and  stir  until  it  is  browned.  Stir  in 
the  milk  and  boil  gently  a  few  minutes,  about  5,  stirring  con- 
stantly.   Serve  with  boiled  potatoes,  rice  or  hot  biscuits. 

Casserole  of  Ham 

Place  a  slice  of  ham  cut  an  inch  thick  in  a  casserole  or  a 
pan.  Spread  on  top  a  paste  made  by  mixing  %  cupful  of  brown 
sugar,  1/^  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  i/2  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard and  l^  cupful  of  water  together.  Pour  over  this  %  cupful 
of  apple  cider.    Bake  II/2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Baked  Pork  Chops 

Season  pork  chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  ^gg  and 
roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  frying  pan  on  the  stove,  place  the 
chops  in  it  and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
A  large  spoonful  of  dressing  may  be  placed  on  top  of  every 
chop. 

Baked  Spareribs 

Trim  the  rough  ends,  break  ribs  across  the  middle,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  over  and  stuff  with  dressing.  Sew  up 
tightly,  place  in  a  dripping  pan  with  2  cupfuls  of  water.    Bake 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  135 

in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently.    Turn  the  meat  so  both 
sides  will  be  browned. 

Breaded  Pork  Chops 

Select  nice  lean  pork  chops,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Brown  in  a 
frying  pan. 

Pan  Broiled  Ham 

Soak  thin  slices  of  ham  30  minutes  in  tepid  water.  Drain, 
wipe  and  broil  3  minutes  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  turning  the  pieces 
constantly  while  cooking. 

Fried  Ham 

Eemove  part  of  the  outside  layer  of  fat  from  a  slice  of  ham. 
Place  in  a  frying  pan  and  cover  with  tepid  water.  Let  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  range  30  minutes.  Drain  and  dry.  Heat  a 
frying  pan  and  brown  the  meat  in  it,  quickly  on  one  side  and 
then  on  the  other. 

Beefsteak 

Wipe  the  steak  with  a  soft  cloth  moistened  in  water  and  trim 
off  part  of  the  fat.  Rub  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  piece  of  suet 
and  place  the  meat  in  the  pan.  Turn  several  times  a  minute 
during  the  cooking  until  the  outside  surfaces  of  the  meat  are 
seared.  Move  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range  and  cook  until  the 
steak  is  well  browned  on  both  sides. 


POULTRY 

To  Truss  a  Fowl 

When  the  fowl  is  dressed  and  singed,  place  a  small  amount  of 
stuffing  in  the  opening  in  the  neck  and  put  the  rest  in  the  body. 
Sew  up  the  openings.  Draw  the  skin  of  the  neck  smoothly 
down  under  the  back,  press  the  wings  against  the  body  and 
fold  the  pinions  under,  crossing  the  back  and  holding  down 
the  skin  of  the  neck.     Thread  the  needle  with  white  twine  and 


136     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

push  it  through  the  wing  by  the  middle  joint,  through  the  skin 
of  the  neck  and  then  through  the  middle  joint  of  the  other  wing. 
Return  the  cord  through  the  bend  of  the  leg  at  the  second  joint, 
through  the  body  and  out  through  the  middle  joint  of  the  other 
leg.  Draw  the  cord  tight  and  tie.  This  cord  will  help  to  give 
the  fowl  a  shapely  appearance  when  served.  The  cord  is  re- 
moved before  the  fowl  is  served. 

Roast  Fowl 

Dress,  clean,  stuff  and  truss  a  fowl.  Lay  on  back  on  a  rack  in 
a  roasting  pan.  Lay  a  strip  of  salt  pork  on  the  breast  unless  the 
fowl  is  very  fat.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  it  begins  to  brown, 
then  lower  the  temperature  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Baste 
frequently  with  the  drippings  in  the  pan.  From  3%  to  4  hours 
is  required  for  baking  a  fowl  properly. 

Chicken  Fricassee 

Wash  the  fowl  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving,  rub  well  with  a 
soft  cloth  moistened  in  vinegar,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Roll  the  pieces  in  flour  and  brown  in  fat.  Pour  over  it  1 
cupful  of  boiling  water  or  warm  cream.  Cover,  set  in  the  oven 
and  bake  until  the  meat  is  tender. 

Smothered  Chicken 

Split  two  young  chickens  through  the  backs,  wash  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  a  roasting  pan, 
set  on  top  of  the  stove,  in  which  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  fat  have 
been  placed.  Add  1  cupful  of  hot  water,  cover  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Ford  County's  Favorite 

Split  a  chicken  down  the  back,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  dots  of  butter.  Cook  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  tender.  Then 
cover  the  top  of  the  chicken  with  strips  of  baking  powder  biscuit 
dough.    Bake  until  neatly  browned. 

Chicken  Goulash 

1  chicken  6  small  onions 

2  cupfuls  tomatoes  1  small  green  pepper 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt  %  teaspoonful  pepper 


MEATS,  POULTEY  AXD  FISH  137 

Boil  the  chicken  until  tender.  When  cool,  remove  the  bones 
and  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits.  Put  this  back  in  the  broth, 
add  the  canned  tomatoes,  chopped  onions,  pepper  and  seasonings. 
Simmer  slowly  1  hour. 


FISH 

The  way  in  which  fish  is  cooked  depends  largely  on  the  kind 
of  fish  it  is.  Oily  ones,  such  as  salmon  and  mackerel,  are  best 
broiled  or  baked,  at  least  not  cooked  in  fat.  White  fish,  such  as 
halibut,  cod  and  haddock,  are  more  dry  and  may  be  fried  or 
sauted.  If  cooked  in  water,  they  are  best  served  with  rich  sauces, 
and  if  baked,  they  must  be  basted  and  larded  frequently. 

Cleaning  Fish 

Fish  are  best  when  cleaned  immediately  after  being  taken 
from  the  water.  Eemove  the  scales  by  drawing  a  knife  over  the 
fish,  beginning  at  the  tail  and  working  toward  the  head.  Wipe 
off  the  knife  occasionally  and  brush  off  the  scales  from  the  fish. 
Wash  thoroughly. 

To  Skin  a  Fish 

Cut  off  the  fins  along  the  back  and  then  cut  off  a  narrow  strip 
of  skin  down  the  entire  length  of  the  back.  Cut  the  skin  around 
the  head,  loosen  it  below  the  head  and  draw  it  off  from  one  side 
of  the  fish  by  pulling  gently  with  one  hand  and  pushing  with 
the  back  of  a  knife  held  in  the  other  hand.  Repeat  the  process 
with  the  other  side  of  the  fish. 

Boiled  Fish 

Cook  small  fish  whole  but  cut  the  larger  ones  in  thick  pieces. 
Use  sufficient  water  to  cover  and  add  to  this  salt  and  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Salt  improves  the  flavor  and  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar  keeps  the  flesh  white.  The  fish  may  be  tied  in  a 
piece  of  cheesecloth  when  placed  in  the  warm  water,  which  is 
brought  to  the  boiling  point  quickly,  and  then  simmered  until 
the  meat  separates  from  the  bones. 


138     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Pan  Broiled  Fish 

Split  a  fish  down  the  back,  clean  and  wipe  dry.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  an  oiled  broiling  or  dripping 
pan.  Brown  first  on  one  side  and  then  turn  and  brown  on  the 
other.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter  at  once. 

Sauted  Fish 

Clean  fish  and  cut  in  individual  pieces.  Dip  in  flour,  corn- 
meal  or  fine  bread  crumbs.     Brown  in  hot  fat. 


Fried  Fish 

Cut  cleaned  fish  in  individual  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
bread  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep 
fat  until  brown  on  all  sides. 

Salmon  Pie 

Blend  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  an  equal  amount  of  flour 
and  add  it  to  li/4  cupfuls  of  milk.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick ; 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  open  a  can  of  salmon,  drain 
off  the  liquor  and  remove  the  bones.  Flake  the  fish  with  a  fork 
and  add  it  to  the  milk  mixture.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  line 
with  warm  mashed  potatoes.  Pour  in  the  salmon  mixture,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  baked  potatoes  and  brush  the  top  with  melted 
butter.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  immediately  in  the 
same  dish  in  which  it  was  cooked. 

Salmon  Fluff 

1  cupful  salmon  1  cupful  milk 

1  cupful  boiled  rice  2  eggs 

2  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1  teaspoonful  salt 

^  teaspoonful  pepper 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  the  salmon  and  pull  into 
flakes.  Add  the  milk,  boiled  rice  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add 
melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 


MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH  139 

Creamed  Salmon 

Combine  2  cupfuls  of  the  white  sauce  for  creamed  dishes  with 
an  equal  amount  of  flaked  and  drained  canned  salmon.  Serve 
hot  on  6  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  platter  surrounded  with 
buttered  peas. 


CHAPTER  23 

WILD  GAME 

Rabbit  Chop  Suey 

1  rabbit  1  small  bunch  celery 

%  pound  fat  salt  pork  1  tablespoonful  Worcestershire 

2  large  onions  sauce 

1  green  pepper 

Cut  rabbit  meat  into  1  inch  pieces.  Cut  fat  pork  into  i/^ 
inch  cubes.  Cut  celery,  onion  and  green  pepper  into  small 
cubes.  Cook  the  pork  in  a  frying  pan  slowly  until  crisp,  being 
careful  not  to  scorch  the  fat.  Add  the  rabbit  meat  and  simmer 
gently  20  minutes.  Then  add  the  onion,  cover  tightly  and  cook 
slowly  20  minutes  or  until  the  onion  is  tender.  Add  the  celery 
and  ground  pepper  and  cook  15  minutes.  Stir  in  the  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  cook  3  minutes.     Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Browned  Rabbit 

Cut  a  young,  fat  rabbit  in  halves  and  place  these  in  a  greased 
pan.  Dot  generously  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour.  Sea- 
son with  salt.  Brown  on  both  sides  in  a  hot  oven.  When 
cooked,  place  the  rabbit  on  a  warm  platter,  thicken  the  drippings 
with  flour  and  add  milk  or  water  to  make  a  gravy.  Pour  this 
hot  gravy  over  the  rabbit  just  before  serving. 

Baked  Rabbit 

Disjoint  a  large  rabbit.  Cut  %  pound  of  bacon  in  slices  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Remove  the  bacon  and  brown  the  rabbit 
in  the  fat.  Place  the  meat  in  a  casserole.  Add  flour  to  the  fat 
in  the  frying  pan  and  then  sufficient  water  to  make  a  gravy. 
Mince  1  carrot  and  1  onion  finely  and  add  to  the  gravy.  Add 
sufficient  salt  to  suit  the  family's  taste  and  pour  the  hot  gravy 

140 


WILD  GAME  141 

over  the  rabbit.    Cover  the  casserole  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven 

2  hours. 

Rabbit,  Hawaiian  Style 

1  rabbit  4  large  onions 

3  large  potatoes  14  cupful  sour  cream 
%  cupful  tomatoes                                   salt,  pepper  and  butter 

Cut  meat  from  the  back  and  hind  quarters.  With  a  potato 
masher  flatten  every  piece  and  cut  into  1  inch  sections.  Pare 
and  slice  the  potatoes ;  peel  and  slice  the  onions.  Put  a  layer  of 
potatoes  in  an  earthenware  or  glass  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
meat  and  a  layer  of  onion.  Add  V2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  i/4 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Add  a  layer  of  tomato  and  dot  with 
butter.  Eepeat  until  all  the  material  is  used.  Pour  the  sour 
cream  over  the  top^  cover  the  dish,  place  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  the  oven  for  at  least  2  hours. 


Mrs.  Rankin's  Quail 

6  quail  1  cupful  cream 

1  teaspoonful  salt  water 

%  cupful  butter  flour 

Dress  the  birds  and  leave  whole.  Salt  well  and  let  stand  a  few 
minutes.  Place  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan  on  top  of  the  stove, 
roll  the  quail  in  flour  and  place  in  the  hot  butter,  add  %  cupful 
of  water  and  cover  tightly.  Cook  slowly  about  2  hours.  Turn 
the  quail  from  time  to  time  during  the  first  half  hour  of  cook- 
ing; then  place  them  in  the  oven  the  rest  of  the  time,  adding 
water  as  is  needed.  When  the  meat  is  tender  and  is  a  rich 
golden  brown,  add  the  sweet  cream,  simmer  5  minutes  and  serve 
at  once. 

Quail  on  Toast 

Dress  the  quail,  cut  every  bird  in  halves,  roll  in  flour  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  them  in  a  greased  baking 
dish,  add  %  cupful  of  water  and  cook  until  tender,  adding  more 
water  as  needed.  Eemove  the  quail  from  the  dish  and  make  a 
brown  gravy  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  using  very  rich  milk. 
When  thickened,  place  the  quail  on  brown  toast  and  pour  the  hot 
gravy  over  this.     Serve  at  once. 


142     THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Roasted  Quail 

Dress  the  birds  carefully,  leaving  them  whole.  Wipe  outside 
and  inside  with  a  dampened  cloth.  Truss,  leaving  the  legs 
standing  up.  Tie  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  around  every  bird.  Bake 
from  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Baste  frequently  with  a 
small  amount  of  boiling  water  and  butter  which  are  placed  in  the 
pan  with  the  quail.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten 
crisp,  brown  toast  in  the  liquor  and  serve  the  roasted  quail  on 
this. 

Broiled  Quail 

Split  the  dressed  birds  down  the  back,  brown  in  a  greased  pan 
on  both  sides,  basting  frequently  with  butter.  When  cooked, 
spread  with  butter  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  on 
moistened  toast  and  set  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the 
butter  on  the  quail. 

Prairie  Ohicken  or  Grouse 

Dress  carefully  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  overnight.  Put 
butter  in  every  bird  and  truss  or  tie  in  a  good  shape.  Roast  in  a 
hot  oven  30  minutes,  basting  every  5  minutes  with  melted  butter. 
After  roasting  25  minutes,  dredge  with  flour  and  let  brown  in  the 
oven  the  last  5  minutes  of  the  cooking. 

Boil  the  livers  of  the  wild  grouse  and  put  them  through  a  food 
grinder,  seasoning  them  with  salt  and  pepper  and  making  a 
paste  by  mixing  it  with  melted  butter.  Spread  this  on  thin 
brown  toast,  pour  some  of  the  liquid  in  the  roasting  pan  over  it 
and  serve  the  grouse  on  the  toast. 

Prairie  chickens  have  dark  meat,  therefore  they,  like  duck,  are 
best  when  served  very  hot  and  rare.  Overcooking  spoils  the 
flavor. 

Wild  Ducks 

Roast  the  ducks  quickly  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  very  hot  on 
slices  of  browned  mush.     Do  not  use  a  stuffing. 

Snipe  and  Woodcock 
Draw  the  birds  carefully  and  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a 
dampened  cloth.    Cut  off  the  feet  and  hold  the  lower  part  of  the 


WILD  GAME  143 

legs  in  boiling  water  a  few  minutes.  Then  remove  the  skin  from 
them.  Skin  the  heads  and  remove  the  eyes.  Press  the  birds 
together,  draw  around  the  heads,  running  the  little  bills  like 
skewers  through  the  legs  and  bodies.  Wrap  every  bird  in  a 
slice  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  10  or  15 
minutes.  Baste  with  butter.  Boil  the  hearts  and  livers,  chop 
very  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  onion  juice  and  melted 
butter.  Spread  this  on  toast,  keep  very  hot,  pour  on  the  juice 
from  the  pan  in  which  the  birds  were  cooked  and  place  the  game 
on  top  of  this  toast.     Serve  immediately. 

Squabs 

Split  down  the  back,  dress  carefully  and  break  the  breast  bone 
with  a  potato  masher.  Wipe  carefully  inside  and  out  and  broil 
like  a  spring  chicken,  or  roast  in  a  quick  oven  1  hour.  Serve  on 
fried  mush  or  on  toast.  Tie  a  piece  of  bacon  on  top  of  every 
squab  and  place  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  inside  before  broiling. 

Potted  Pigeons 

Unless  the  pigeons  are  very  young,  they  are  best  stewed. 
After  dressing  and  trussing  the  birds,  spread  a  layer  of  thinly 
sliced  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  lay  the  pigeons  on  this 
with  breasts  up,  dice  1  carrot  and  1  onion  and  add  them  with  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover.  Cover  the  pan  tightly  and  simmer  until 
the  meat  is  tender,  adding  more  water  if  necessary  during  the 
cooking.  Serve  on  thin  slices  of  toast  with  or  without  thicken- 
ing the  broth  to  make  gravy  for  an  accompaniment. 

Partridge 

Dress  and  truss  the  partridge  as  chicken.  Cover  the  breast 
with  thin  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Put  into  a  baking  pan  and 
add  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Roast  45  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. Place  on  a  hot  platter,  dot  with  butter  and  serve  with  a 
gravy  made  by  thickening  the  drippings  in  the  pan  and  adding 
rich  milk  and  seasonings. 

To  broil  partridge,  split  down  the  back  and  rub  all  the  surfaces 
with  butter.  Broil  30  minutes,  browning  on  both  sides.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 


CHAPTER  24 

STUFFINGS 

Bread  Stuffing 

4  cupfuls  bread  1  tablespoonful  parsley 

iy2  teaspoonfuls  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

%  teaspoonful  pepper  hot   milk   or  water  to  moisten 

Mix  the  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  the  finely  broken 
bread  crumbs.  Add  the  chopped  parsley  and  the  melted  butter. 
Pour  on  the  hot  liquid  gradually  and  mix  thoroughly,  stirring 
lightly.  One-half  teaspoonful  of  sage  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
parsley. 

Onion  Stuffing 

Make  as  Bread  Stuffing,  adding  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
onion. 

Oyster  Stuffing 

Make  as  Bread  Stuffing,  adding  25  washed  and  well  drained 
oysters. 

Celery  Stuffing 

Make  as  Bread  Stuffing,  adding  1  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  If 
celery  is  not  available,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  may  be  added 
to  the  dressing  and  only  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt  used. 

Potato  Stuffing 

2  cupfuls  mashed  potatoes  1%  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1^>  cupfuls  bread  crumbs  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  onion  2  tablespoonfuls  cream 

%  teaspoonful  pepper  1  egg 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  and  while  hot  add  the  other  in- 
gredients. If  one  wishes,  1  teaspoonful  of  sage  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  finely  chopped  salt  pork  may  be  added. 

144 


STUFFINGS  145 

Walnut  Stuffing 

Make  Potato  Stuffing,  omitting  the  onion,  sage  and  fat  pork 
and  adding  1  cupful  of  chopped  black  or  English  walnuts.  Use 
in  stuffing  tame  ducks  and  rabbits. 

Apple  Stuffing 

2  cupfuls  apples  1  cupful  raisins 

Chop  the  pared  and  cored  tart  apples  together  with  the  seeded 
raisins  and  use  in  stuffing  a  goose. 

Peanut  Stuffing 

Mix  together  4  cupfuls  of  warm  boiled  rice,  %  cupful  of 
peanut  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  parsley  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  this  is  not 
bound  together  well,  add  a  little  rich  cream. 

Cracker  Stuffing 

Scald  ll^  cupfuls  of  milk  and  pour  over  2  cupfuls  of  cracker 
crumbs.  Add  %  cupful  of  melted  butter,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  14  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

Chestnut  Stuffing 

4  cupfuls  chestnuts  \i  teaspoonful  pepper 

Yo  cupful  butter  4  tablespoonfuls  cream 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

Shell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts  by  cutting  a  half -inch  gash  on 
the  flat  sides  and  putting  into  a  frying  pan,  allowing  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Shake  over  the  stove  until  the  butter  is 
melted.  Put  in  the  oven  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Eemove  from 
the  oven  and  take  oif  the  shells  with  a  small  knife.  The  shelling 
and  blanching  are  accomplished  at  the  same  time.  Cook  the 
chestnuts  in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender.  Drain,  mash,  add 
the  butter,  salt,  pepper,  cream  and  cracker  crumbs  and  mix 
thoroughly. 


CHAPTER  25 
PASTRY 

The  important  rules  to  heed  in  pastry  making  are:  use  in- 
gredients which  are  as  cold  as  it  is  possible  to  have  them,  avoid 
handling  the  pastry  any  more  than  is  necessary  and  last,  but  not 
least,  do  not  add  any  more  water  than  is  needed  to  hold  the 
flaky  particles  of  the  fat  and  flour  mixture  together. 

In  the  cold  weather  or  with  the  use  of  a  refrigerator  in  the 
summer,  the  flour,  salt  and  fat  may  be  combined  in  large  quanti- 
ties, placed  in  covered  glass  or  earthenware  jars  and  kept  on 
hand.  Then  when  pies  are  desired,  water  may  be  added  to  a 
portion  of  this  mixture  and  the  pastry  may  be  rolled  out  quickly. 
Having  this  pastry  mixture  prepared  is  a  great  convenience  when 
unexpected  guests  or  crews  of  men  come. 

Plain  Pastry 

4%  cupfuls  flour  4  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1^  cupfuls  shortening  cold  water  to  moisten 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  shortening  together.  The  fat  may  be 
cut  in  with  a  knife.  Add  just  enough  water  to  make  the  parti- 
cles adhere  together.  Turn  on  a  lightly  floured  board,  roll  thin, 
handling  as  little  as  possible.  This  makes  3  two-crust  pies  of 
ordinary  size. 

Sweet  Pastry 

4  cupfuls  flour  1%  cupfuls  butter 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  the  flour  and  salt  and  cut  in  the  fat  with  a  knife.  Roll 
very  thin.  Cut  with  a  round  cutter,  using  a  doughnut  cutter  to 
make  half  the  circles.  Use  jelly,  orange  or  chocolate  fllling  or 
jam  to  fill  these  tarts,  placing  the  circle  with  the  hole  in  the 
center  on  a  plain  one  to  make  a  tart. 

146 


PASTEY  147 

Dorothy's  Pastry 

3  cupfuls  flour  V2  cupful  butter 

3  teaspoonfuls  salt  V2  cupful  lard 

%  cupful  cold  water 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  work  the  lard  into  them  and  add  the 
water.  Turn  this  mealy  mixture  on  a  lightly  floured  board  and 
with  a  knife  pat  in  shape.  Roll  14  iiich  thick.  Place  the  cold 
butter,  which  has  been  washed  and  chilled,  in  the  center  and  fold 
the  pastry  over  it.  Roll  out,  fold  over  and  repeat  this  process 
3  times.    Then  the  pastry  is  ready  to  be  baked. 

Raised  Pastry 

3  cupfuls  pastry  flour  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  shortening 

cold  water  to  moisten 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  the  fat  and  chill  the  mixture. 
Then  add  cold  water,  roll  the  crust  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Apple  Pie 

Wash,  pare  and  slice  thinly  tart,  easily  cooked  apples.  Cover 
a  pie  tin  with  pastry,  arrange  the  slices  of  apples  in  the  tin  and 
sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar,  either  brown  or  white.  Dot  with 
butter.  A  little  cinnamon  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  if  one 
wishes.     Cover  with  pastry  and  bake. 

Berry  Pies 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  pastry  and  fill  with  berries  slightly  dredged 
with  flour.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  with  pastry  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

2  cupfuls  stewed  pumpkin  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
1  egg  %  teaspoonful  ginger 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1  tablespoonful  flour  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Combine  the  ingredients,  beating  the  egg  well,  and  pour  in  a 
pie  pan  lined  with  pastry.  If  a  brown  crust  is  desired  on  top  of 
the  pumpkin  mixture,  pour  5  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  on  top 
of  the  pie  just  before  setting  it  in  the  oven.  This  milk  will 
brown.    Have  the  oven  rather  hot  at  first  to  set  the  crust  before 


148     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

any  of  the  pumpkin  filling  can  soak  into  it;  then  lower  the  heat 
and  bake  rather  slowly. 

Lemon  Whey  Pie 

1  cupful  whey  1  lemon 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  %  teaspoonful  salt 

%  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  butter 

2  eggs 

Strain  the  whey  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  cornstarch  together  and  add  to  the  whey.  Cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens.  Then  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  the  salt  and  melted  fat  and  cook  for 
3  minutes.  Pour  into  a  crust  which  has  been  baked  and  cover  the 
top  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  the  whites  of  eggs  until 
stiff,  adding  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla 
and  beating  again.  Spread  this  meringue  on  top  of  the  pie  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  20  minutes  or  until  the  meringue  is  browned. 

Lucile's  Apple  Pie 

Stew  10  tart  apples  of  medium  size  in  a  very  little  water  until 
tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  li^  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  4  beaten  egg  yolks,  ly^  cupfuls  of 
cream  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  in  two  pastry  shells 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  reducing  the  heat  after  the  first  10 
minutes,  when  the  pastry  will  be  set.  Bake  30  minutes  longer. 
Then  remove  from  the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
from  the  4  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  until  very  stiff 
and  to  which  8  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  have  been  added. 

English  Apple  Pie 

6  medium-sized  apples  1  lemon 

6  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  cupful  sugar 

2  egg  yolks  1  cupful  cream 

Make  a  sauce  from  the  apples.  When  tender,  rub  through  a 
sieve  and  add  the  butter.  Cool  and  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks, 
sugar  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Stir  in  the 
thick  cream.  Pour  in  two  pie  tins  lined  with  pastry,  bake  30  or 
40  minutes,  then  cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  egg 
whites,  to  which  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  are  added.  Brown  the 
meringue  in  a  slow  oven. 


PASTRY  149 

Chocolate  Pie 

2  eggs  1  tablespoonful  butter 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  or  cocoa 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  2  cupfuls  milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  stir  in  the  milk,  to  which  the 
beaten  egg  yolks  have  been  added.  Add  butter  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  vanilla.  Fill  baked 
crusts,  using  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  sweetened  with  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar  for  the  top  of  the  pies.  Brown  in  a  slow 
oven.     This  will  make  two  pies. 

Butterscotch  Filling 

2  egg  yolks  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  brown  sugar 
2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water                    2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  cupfuls  boiling  water 

Beat  the  egg  yolks,  flour,  sugar  and  cold  water  together,  add 
the  boiling  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  When  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  remove  from  the  stove  and  add  the  vanilla  and 
butter.    Use  as  a  pie  filling,  covering  the  top  with  a  meringue. 

Tarts 

Bake  pastry  which  has  been  cut  in  circles  and  pricked  with  a 
fork  over  inverted  muffin  tins.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven.  When 
cool,  fill  with  marmalades,  sweetened  fresh  fruit  or  any  pie  filling 
desired. 

Cheese  Straws 

Roll  pastry  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Fold 
over  and  roll.  Repeat  three  times,  every  time  rolling  the  mixture 
very  thin.  Cut  in  strips  14  inch  wide  and  4  inches  long.  Bake 
about  8  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pineapple  Pie 

1  small  can  grated  pineapple  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

2  egg  yolks  V2  cupful  water 
y2  cupful  sugar                                        2  egg  whites 

1  tablespoonful  flour  pastry 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  add  them  to  the  pineapple,  sugar, 
flour,  lemon  juice  and  water.     Place  in  a  pie  pan  lined  with 


150     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

pastry  and  bake  30  minutes,  reducing  the  heat  in  the  oven  after 
the  pie  has  baked  10  minutes.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  by- 
beating  the  egg  whites  and  adding  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Return  the  pie  to  a  slow  oven  and  brown  the  meringue. 

Prune  Pie 

1  cupful  prunes  1  lemon 

y2  cupful  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  V2  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
1  cupful  water                                          1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Wash  the  prunes  and  soak  4  or  5  hours  in  cold  water.  If  all 
the  water  is  taken  up  by  the  fruit,  add  more  and  stew  until  the 
prunes  are  tender.  Remove  the  stones,  add  the  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  Add  the  cornstarch  dissolved 
in  cold  water  and  cook  3  minutes.  Cool,  add  vanilla  and  cinna- 
mon and  bake  in  a  deep  pan  between  two  crusts. 

Raisin  Pie 
Make  as  Prune  Pie,  substituting  raisins  for  the  prunes. 

Orange  Pie 

1  cupful  orange  juice  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2  eggs  2%  tablespoonfuls  flour 
%  cupful  sugar  1%  teaspoonfuls  butter 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together  and  add  the  well  beaten  egg 
yolks  and  the  butter.  Stir  in  the  orange  juice,  adding  it  very 
slowly.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Cool 
and  pour  in  a  previously  baked  pastry  shell.  Cover  with  a 
meringue  made  by  beating  the  egg  whites  and  adding  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar.     Brown  the  meringue  in  a  slow  oven. 

Custard  Pie 

Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  pastry  and  bake.  Pour  in  a  custard 
filling,  same  as  recipe  for  Baked  Custard,  and  bake  until  the 
custard  is  set. 

Lemon  Pie  Filling 

%  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  2  egg  yolks 

1  cupful  boiling  water  %  teaspoonful  salt 

14  cupful  lemon  juice  grated  rind  of  %  lemon 


PASTRY  151 

Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar  together  and  stir  in  the  hot 
water.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  thickens^  and  boil  5 
minutes.  Add  butter,  beaten  egg  yolks,  salt^  lemon  juice  and 
grated  rind.  Cook  3  minutes.  Pour  into  a  previously  baked 
crust;  cover  with  a  meringue.     Brown  meringue  in  a  slow  oven. 


Mince  Meat 

%  pound  meat  %  tablespoonful  cinnamon 

1  pound  of  apples  1  teaspoonful  cloves 

%  pound  raisins  1  teaspoonful  mace 

%  pound  currants  1%  teaspoonfuls  allspice 

%  pound  citron  li^  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg 

Yo  cupful  sugar  water  or  fruit  juice 

Boil  the  meat  and  cool.  Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Force  the 
meat  and  apples  through  the  food  grinder.  Wash  the  currants, 
raisins  and  citron  and  cut  in  tiny  pieces.  Moisten  with  water 
or  fruit  juice.  Cook  gently  until  the  meat  and  apples  are  tender, 
adding  the  spices  during  the  cookery.  To  make  mince  pies,  line 
a  pie  tin  with  plain  pastry,  fill  with  mince  meat,  cover  with 
pastry  and  bake. 


Green  Tomato  Mince  Meat 

Chop  or  grind  8  pounds  of  green  tomatoes.  Add  6  pounds  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
cloves  and  %  tablespoonful  of  allspice.  Cook  gently  until  the 
tomatoes  are  tender  and  clear.  Can  in  sterile  jars  and  combine 
with  meat  in  making  mince  meat  pies. 


Cranberry  Pie 

To  3  cupfuls  of  cold  cranberry  sauce  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  which  have 
been  mixed  into  a  paste  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cranberry  juice. 
Simmer  gently  40  minutes.  When  cool,  add  l^  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract  and  pour  into  a  deep  pie  crust  which  has  been 
baked  previously.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites. of  2  eggs  mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Place  in  a  slow  oven  to  brown  the  meringue. 


152     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Pastry  Shells 

In  baking  pastry  shells  use  a  very  hot  oven  to  prevent  the 
pastry  from  shrinking  out  of  shape.  Either  line  a  pie  tin  with 
the  pastry  or  place  it  over  the  inverted  tin^  or  for  small  pastry 
cups  or  tarts,  arrange  it  over  inverted  muffin  tins.  Prick  the 
pastry  with  the  tines  of  a  fork. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Cut  the  washed  stalks  of  rhubarb  in  i/o  inch  pieces.  Cover  the 
tin  with  pastry,  dredge  the  rhubarb  with  flour  and  arrange  in  the 
tin.     Sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar,  cover  with  pastry  and  bake. 

Meringue 

2  egg  whites  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice  or 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  the  sugar  gradually.  Con- 
tinue beating  and  add  the  flavoring.  Spread  on  pies,  puddings 
or  desserts  and  brown  slowly  in  the  oven.  Use  a  slow  oven  so  it 
will  take  15  or  20  minutes  for  the  baking. 


CHAPTER  26 
SALADS 

The  salad  is  usually  the  most  attractive  dish  on  the  table.  It 
may  be  made  from  fruits,  vegetables,  meats,  fish,  eggs  or  combi- 
nations of  these  foods.  Many  kinds  of  salad  dressings  may  be 
served  with  it;  the  two  general  classes  are  those  which  contain 
olive  oil  or  a  vegetable  oil  and  those  which  do  not  contain  oil  of 
any  kind. 

Salads  are  made  from  evenly  cut  fruits  and  vegetables.  If 
meat  is  used,  it  is  freed  from  bone,  skin  and  gristle  and  is  cut  in 
small  cubes.  A  garnish  of  some  food,  such  as  whipped  cream, 
sprigs  of  parsley,  lettuce,  a  curl  of  celerj^  or  a  strip  of  pimento, 
makes  the  salad  more  attractive. 

As  a  rule  the  salad  is  served  on  lettuce,  which  is  not  only 
attractive  but  also  edible.  To  prepare  the  lettuce  for  use,  it  is 
examined  leaf  by  leaf  to  make  certain  that  it  is  free  from  insects. 
Then  it  is  washed  and  placed  in  a  colander  to  drain.  It  may  be 
dried  between  folds  of  a  towel  but  this  process  frequently 
bruises  it. 

When  most  of  the  water  has  drained  off,  the  leaves  are  piled 
lightly  in  a  cloth  or  paper  bag  and  set  in  a  cold  place,  such  as  a 
refrigerator.  If  one  prefers,  the  washed  lettuce  may  be  placed  in 
a  glass  fruit  jar,  covered  and  set  in  a  cold  room.  When  time  to 
serve  the  salad,  the  lettuce  is  crisp  and  ready  for  use. 

French  Salad  Dressing 

%  teaspoonful  sugar  Yz   teaspoonful  paprika 

1  teaspoonful  salt  5  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 

10  tablespooufuls  olive  oil 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the  vinegar  and  olive  oil 
alternately,  beating  constantly  with  a  silver  fork.  Lemon  juice 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  vinegar  if  one  washes. 

153 


154  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

3  eggs  V2  cupful  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt  %  cupful  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  tablespoonful  flour  %  teaspoonful  white  pepper 

Add  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  the  beaten  egg  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Add  the  vinegar  and  water  and  cook  over  hot  water, 
stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Add  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
If  one  wishes,  %  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard  may  be  added. 


Whipped  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

3  egg  yolks  %  teaspoonful  mustard 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  %  cupful  hot  vinegar 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2  teaspoonfuls  butter 

y2  cupful  heavy  cream 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  One  and 
one-half  eggs  may  be  used  instead  of  the  egg  yolks.  Beat  in  the 
sugar,  salt,  and  mustard  which  have  been  mixed  together.  Heat 
the  vinegar  and  melt  the  butter  in  it.  Combine  the  two  mixtures 
and  cook  over  hot  water  until  the  dressing  is  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  the  whipped  cream  just  before  serving.  Use  with 
fruit  salads. 

Mayonnaise 

1  egg  yolk  %  teaspoonful  mustard 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2  teaspoonfuls  vinegar  %  teaspoonful  powdered  sugar 

%  cupful  olive  oil  speck  cayenne 

Chill  the  ingredients.  Place  the  egg  yolk  and  the  dry  in- 
gredients in  a  cold  mixing  bowl.  Add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar 
and  then  the  oil,  drop  by  drop,  until  1  teaspoonful  has  been 
added.  Add  alternately  with  the  oil  the  vinegar  and  lemon 
juice,  drop  by  drop,  until  all  the  lemon  juice  and  vinegar  are 
used.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  oil  more  rapidly.  Constant 
beating  is  necessary  throughout  the  entire  process. 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

To  1  cupful  of  mayonnaise  add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  chili 
sauce,  2  chopped  pimentos  and  1/2  tablespoonful  chopped  chives. 


SALADS  155 

Russian  Salad  Dressing 

To  6  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  add  1%  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  pimentos,  6  sprigs  of  chives,  chopped,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  chili  sauce,  %  teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers,  II/2  teaspoonfuls 
of  tarragon  vinegar  and  1%  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  cream. 

Cabbage  Salad 

1  small  cabbage  1  green  pepper 

1  small  onion  salad  dressing 

2  small  carrots  cabbage  leaves 

Put  the  onion  and  carrot  through  the  food  grinder,  shred  the 
cabbage  finely  or  grind  it,  remove  the  seeds  from  the  green 
pepper  and  cut  it  in  shreds.  Mix  lightly  with  salad  dressing 
and  serve  on  cabbage  leaves. 

Salad  Dressing  for  Cabbage 

%  cupful  cream  2  teaspoonfuls  mustard 

%  cupful  vinegar  2  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

Whip  the  cream  until  stiff  and  gradually  add  the  vinegar. 
When  well  mixed,  add  the  other  ingredients,  first  dissolving  the 
ground  mustard  in  the  boiling  water. 

Potato  and  Egg  Salad 

2  cupfuls  cabbage  2  cupfuls  cooked  potato 

2  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  green  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  pickle  %  teaspoonful  onion  juice 

1  tablespoonful  parsley 

Cut  the  boiled  potatoes  in  cubes,  shred  the  cabbage  finely,  slice 
the  hard  cooked  eggs  and  combine  with  the  chopped  pickles, 
pepper,  parsley  and  onion  juice.  Celery  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  cabbage  and  cucumbers  instead  of  the  pickles.  Mix  these 
ingredients  together  with  a  boiled  salad  dressing. 

Cabbage  and  Pineapple  Salad 

4  cupfuls  shredded  cabbage  2  cupfuls  marshmallows 

2  cupfuls  sliced  pineapple  1  cupful  of  nuts 

Cut  the  canned  pineapple  and  marshmallows  in  small  pieces, 
mix  with  the  cabbage  and  nut  meats  and  combine  with  salad 
dressing. 


156  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Fall  Salad 

Line  a  bowl  with  shredded  cabbage  which  has  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  until  crisp.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange 
alternate  layers  of  thinly  sliced  beets  and  carrots  which  have  been 
cooked  until  tender  in  salted  water  in  the  nest  of  cabbage.  Add 
salad  dressing  and  serve. 

Apple  and  Celery  Salad 

6  apples  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

1  banana  2  cupfuls  celery 

salad  dressing 

Pare  the  apples,  remove  the  cores  and  cut  in  dice.  Slice  the 
banana  and  mix  with  the  apples,  sprinkling  the  mixture  with 
lemon  juice  to  prevent  discoloration.  Add  the  salad  dressing  and 
the  diced  celery  just  before  serving. 

Date  Salad 

1  cupful  dates  1  cupful  diced  celery 

4  tablespoonfuls  cheese  1  cupful  diced  apples 

4  tablespoonfuls  nut  meats  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

salad  dressing 

Remove  the  stones  from  the  dates  and  fill  the  cavities  with  the 
cheese  and  nut  meats  which  have  been  ground  together.  Let 
stand  several  hours  in  a  cold  place.  Mix  the  apples  and  celery 
together,  sprinkle  with  the  lemon  juice  and  add  the  dates  which 
have  been  cut  in  thin  slices.  Top  with  salad  dressing  and  serve 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 

Banana  Salad 

Arrange  slices  of  bananas  on  lettuce  leaves,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nut  meats  and  add  salad  dressing. 

White  Salad 

For  an  individual  salad  arrange  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  let- 
tuce leaf,  place  6  white  cherries  or  grapes  on  top  and  add  the 
salad  dressing.  The  pits  are  removed  from  the  cherries  and  the 
seeds  from  the  grapes.  A  marshmallow  may  be  used  for  deco- 
ration. 


SALADS  157 

Fruit  Salad 

Cut  canned  pineapple  in  small  cubes  and  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  white  or  green  grapes  or  canned  white  cherries.  Cut  the 
grapes  in  halves  and  remove  the  seeds,  or  if  cherries  are  used, 
remove  the  pits.  Cut  canned  pears  in  small  pieces  and  combine 
with  the  other  fruits  and  salad  dressing.  Chopped  nut  meats 
may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  if  one  wishes. 

Chicken  Salad 

Cut  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  in  i/^  inch  pieces  and  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  chilled  in  cold  water 
and  dried  in  a  towel.  Just  before  serving  moisten  with  salad 
dressing  and  garnish  with  the  yolks  of  hard  cooked  eggs  pushed 
through  a  fine  sieve. 

Vegetable  Salad 

Cut  4  hard  cooked  eggs  lengthwise  and  remove  the  yolks. 
Mash  the  yolks,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  toss  them  in  a 
pan  containing  melted  butter.  Mix  with  1  cupful  of  cold, 
cooked  peas.  Slice  the  egg  whites  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Place 
the  egg  and  pea  mixture  on  them  and  add  salad  dressing. 

Spinach  Salad 

Arrange  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plates.  On  these  place  left- 
over spinach  which  has  been  molded  in  small  molds.  Decorate 
with  tiny  balls  made  from  seasoned  cottage  cheese.  Serve  with 
salad  dressing. 

Turkey  Salad 

Use  either  chicken  or  turkey  meat.  Take  3  cupfuls  of  the 
shredded  meat,  which  has  been  cooked,  and  combine  with  1 
cupful  of  nut  meats,  1  cupful  of  chopped  celery  or  olives  and  1 
cupful  of  apple  pulp.  Mix  with  salad  dressing  and  serve 
garnished  with  bits  of  cranberry  jelly. 

Jellied  Chicken 

Place  the  scraps  of  roast  turkey  or  chicken  in  a  saucepan,  add 
any  left-over  gravy  and  a  little  hot  water.     Cut  up  and  add  to 


158     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

the  meat  mixture  1  onion  and  3  stalks  of  celery.  Cook  until 
these  vegetables  are  tender.  Keep  them  well  covered  with  water 
during  the  cookery.  Cool,  remove  the  bones  and  skin  and  put  the 
meat  through  a  food  grinder.  Strain  the  liquid  and  to  every 
2  cupfuls  add  1  tablespoonful  of  gelatin,  soaking  the  gelatin  first 
in  y^  cupful  of  cold  water.  Add  the  meat  to  the  gelatin  and 
broth  mixture  and  pour  into  a  square  dish  which  is  wet  first  in 
cold  water.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Slice  and  serve 
this  jelly  on  a  platter  surrounded  with  spoonfuls  of  cranberry 
jelly  and  green  olives,  or  if  one  wishes,  it  may  be  served  on  salad 
plates  with  salad  dressing. 

Celery  Salad 

Select  large  red  apples,  cut  in  halves  and  scoop  out  the  centers, 
leaving  sufficient  pulp  next  to  the  skin  so  that  the  apple  cups 
thus  made  will  stand  up.  Cut  the  apple  scooped  out  into  bits 
and  combine  with  an  equal  amount  of  diced  celery  and  a  few 
chopped  nut  meats.  Mix  with  salad  dressing  and  pile  in  the 
apple  cups. 

Salmon  Salad 

2  cupfuls  canned  salmon  3  pickles 

1  hard  cooked  egg  salad  dressing 

Mix  salmon,  chopped  pickle  and  salad  dressing  together  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  slices  of  egg. 

Asparagus  Salad 

Cut  rings  from  a  green  pepper  or  from  a  lemon  about  1/4  inch 
wide.  Slip  stalks  of  cold  boiled  asparagus  through  every  ring 
and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.     Serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Tomato  Salad 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes  and  chill.  Cut  in  slices  or  in 
eighths,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  garnish  with  a  spoonful  of  salad 
dressing.     Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce. 

Potato  Salad 

3  cupfuls  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  small  pickle 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  few  drops  onion  juice 


SALADS  159 

Cut  the  potatoes  in  small  cubes.  Chop  egg  whites  and  mix 
with  the  potatoes  and  chopped  pickle.  When  cucumbers  are  in 
season,  use  a  sliced  cucumber  instead  of  the  pickle.  Mix  lightly 
with  salad  dressing,  arrange  on  lettuce  and  garnish  with  the  egg 
yolks  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 


Cole  Slaw 

Select  a  small,  firm  head  of  cabbage  and  slice  very  thinly. 
Soak  in  cold  water  until  crisp.  Then  drain  and  mix  with  a  salad 
dressing  made  by  combining  I/2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  I/2  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mustard,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  1  egg  lightly  beaten,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  %  cupful  of  cream  and  i/4  cup- 
ful vinegar.  Mix  the  ingredient's  in  the  order  given^  adding  the 
vinegar  slowly,  and  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until 
the  mixture  thickens.     Strain,  cool  and  add  to  the  crisp  cabbage. 

Hot  Slaw 

Soak  %  firm  cabbage  head  in  cold  water  until  crisp.  Then 
cut  in  thin  shreds  and  heat  in  a  salad  dressing  made  by  com- 
bining 2  egg  yolks,  14  cupful  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
14  cupful  of  vinegar  and  %  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Molded  Salmon  Salad 

2  cupfuls  canned  salmon  %  cupful  cold  water 

1%  teaspoonfuls  salt  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

Vz  teaspoonful  flour  1  teaspoonful  ground  mustard 

%  cupful  milk  2  egg  yolks 

1  tablespoonful  gelatin  4  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoonful  butter 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients, 
add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  and  the  milk. 
Cook  over  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Eemove  from  the  stove,  add  the  butter  and  the  softened  gelatin 
and  stir  constantly  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Add  the  finely 
flaked  salmon_,  freed  from  bones  and  skin,  pour  into  a  mold 
which  has  been  wet  in  cold  water  or  into  individual  molds^  chill 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


160  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Pineapple  SaJad 

Arrange  slices  of  canned  pineapple  on  a  salad  plate  and  place 
three  balls  made  from  seasoned  cottage  cheese  on  every  slice. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Mattie's  Fruit  Salad 

2  cupfuls  marshmallows  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  cup  walnut  meats  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  whipped  cream  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 

Cut  the  marshmallows  in  halves,  mix  with  the  broken  nut 
meats  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  whipped  cream  to  which  the  sugar, 
salt  and  lemon  juice  have  been  added.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Dreamland  Salad 

1  pound  shelled  walnuts  1  large  can  of  pineapple 

1  pound  marshmallows  1  large  can  white  cherries 

Cut  the  marshmallows  in  halves,  drain  and  cut  the  pineapple 
into  small  pieces,  drain  and  seed  the  cherries.  Mix  the  fruit 
with  the  nut  meats  and  serve  with  Dressing  of  the  Fairies.  This 
salad  may  be  made  a  day  before  it  is  served. 

Dressing  of  the  Fairies 

1  tablespoonful  flour  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  ground  mustard  1  egg 

1  cupful  milk  2  cupfuls  heavy  cream 

1  lemon 

Mix  the  flour,  mustard  and  salt  and  dissolve  in  a  little  of  the 
milk.  Add  to  the  rest  of  the  milk,  stir  in  the  egg  and  cook  until 
thick  in  a  double  boiler.  Cool  and  add  the  whipped  cream  and 
the  juice  of  the  lemon.  This  dressing  with  Dreamland  Salad 
will  make  15  servings. 

Apple  and  Cabbage  Salad 

2  cupfuls  shredded  cabbage  1  cupful  diced  apples 
1  cupful  chopped  celery  %  cupful  nut  meats 

Make  a  nest  of  the  cabbage,  combine  the  other  ingredients  and 
arrange  on  top.     Serve  with  salad  dressing. 


SALADS  161 

Farmers'  Favorite 

3  cupfuls  shredded  cabbage  1%  cupfuls  ground  carrots 
2  cupfuls  chopped  celery                         salad  dressing 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  moisten  with  salad  dressing. 

Cucumber  Salad 

Peel  and  cut  cucumbers  in  halves  lengthwise,  then  crosswise. 
Wash  little  red  radishes  and  slice  thinly.  Cut  slits  I/4  inch  deep 
in  every  section  of  cucumber  and  slip  the  radish  slices  into  these. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  salad  dressing. 

Finger  Salad 

4  bananas  1  lemon 

%  cupful  chopped  nuts  powdered  sugar 

Skin  the  bananas  and  cut  the  fruit  into  halves  crosswise,  then 
in  4  pieces  lengthwise.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  and  then  in  the 
finely  chopped  nut  meats.  Cut  the  lemon  in  thin  slices,  dip  in 
sugar  and  use  to  garnish  the  salad.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
salad  dressing. 

Cottage  Cheese  Salad 

Moisten  cottage  cheese  with  cream.  To  every  2  cupfuls  add 
1  small  onion  chopped  fine  and  1  crisp  cucumber  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Shape  into  balls  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  salad 
dressing.    Garnish  with  slices  of  hard  cooked  eggs. 


CHAPTER  27 
SANDWICHES 

There  are  two  kinds  of  sandwiches — those  which  are  cold  and 
those  which  are  hot  when  served.  A  sandwich  consists  of  two 
thin  slices  of  bread  or  cake,  such  as  angel  food  or  gingerbread, 
spread  with  butter  and  a  filling.  Usually  the  filling  spreads 
more  easily  if  it  is  put  through  a  food  grinder  and  combined  with 
salad  dressing,  cream  or  some  liquid  to  make  it  a  paste. 

Bread  which  has  been  baked  24  hours  cuts  better  than  newly 
baked  loaves.  Before  spreading  the  butter,  it  may  be  placed  in  a 
mixing  bowl  and  creamed  with  a  spoon  just  as  it  is  in  cake 
making.     Creamed  butter  spreads  smoothly  and  easily. 

When  sandwiches  must  be  made  ready  several  hours  before 
they  are  to  be  served,  they  will  keep  fresh  and  moist  if  placed  in  a 
large  earthenware  or  stone  crock  which  is  covered  with  a  dish 
towel  wrung  as  dry  as  possible  from  warm  water.  The  wet  cloth 
should  not  touch  any  of  the  sandwiches.  In  case  the  towel 
becomes  dry,  it  should  be  wrung  from  hot  water  the  second  time. 
For  packing  sandwiches  in  lunch  boxes,  a  wrapping  of  paraffin 
paper  keeps  them  fresh  for  several  hours. 


SANDWICH  FILLINGS 

Bean 

Mash  cold  baked  beans  and  mix  with  a  little  tomato  catchup  or 
salad  dressing. 

Peanut  and  Banana 

Scrape  the  pulp  of  a  banana  and  to  every  banana  used  add  % 
cupful  of  chopped  peanuts. 

162 


SANDWICHES  163 

Prune 

Use  thick,  cooked  prune  pulp  to  which  a  few  chopped  nut 
meats  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  are  added. 

Salmon 

Flake  the  salmon,  add  a  few  chopped  pickles  and  moisten  with 
salad  dressing. 

Egg 

Mash  yolks  of  4  hard  cooked  eggs  with  %  cupful  of  cottage 
cheese. 

Date 

Eemove  stones  from  dates,  grind  the  fruit  and  moisten  with 
jelly. 

Beef 

Grind  1  cupful  of  roasted  beef  with  1  small  onion. 

Ham 

Grind   cooked   ham   with   pickles    and   moisten   with   salad 
dressing. 

Spinach 

Chopped,  cooked  spinach  may  be  seasoned  with  lemon  juice  or 
a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  used  for  a  sandwich  filling. 

Maple  Sugar 
Use  wafer-like  slices  of  maple  sugar. 

Fruit 

Thicken  stewed  fruit  with  cornstarch  and  cool  before  using. 

Celery 

Mince  celery  and  combine  with  seasoned  cottage  cheese. 


164     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Raisins  and  Nuts 

Chop  raisins  and  nuts  together. 

Cottage  Cheese 

Mix  cottage  cheese,  which  is  seasoned,  with  nut  meats. 

Frosting 

Use  cake  frosting  mixed  with  chopped  raisins,  nuts,  dates 
or  figs. 

Chopped  Date 

Use  chopped  dates  moistened  with  cream. 

Raisin  Sandwiches 

Place  the  seedless  raisins  in  a  double  boiler  and  steam  them  5 
minutes.  Run  them  through  a  food  grinder,  mix  with  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  cream  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread. 

Sponge  Cake  Sandwiches 

Spread  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake  with  butter  and  jelly  or  fruit 
preserves. 

Bean  Sandwiches 

1  cupful  baked  beans  1  tablespoonful  celery 

1  tablespoonful  horseradish  1  teaspoonful  onion  juice 

Mash  the  beans  and  add  the  prepared  horseradish,  minced 
celery  and  onion  juice.  Spread  between  buttered  slices  of  white 
or  Graham  bread. 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

1  cupful  cooked  chicken  1  cupful  celery 

14  cupful  salad  dressing 

Put  the  chicken  and  celery  through  the  food  chopper,  add  the 
salad  dressing  and  place  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 


SANDWICHES  165 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

Put  cold  cooked  chicken  through  a  food  grinder  and  moisten 
with  salad  dressing.  Add  a  few  drops  of  celery  extract  or  a  dash 
of  celery  salt. 

Pig  Sandwiches 

Chop  1  cupful  of  figs  and  the  same  amount  of  nut  meats  in  fine 
pieces.  To  this  mixture  add  1  cupful  of  cream  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  thoroughly  and  spread  between  thin 
slices  of  bread.    Dates  may  be  used  instead  of  the  figs. 

Ice  Cream  Sandwiches 

Bake  either  a  devil's  or  angel's  food  cake  in  loaf  form  and 
when  cool  cut  in  long  strips.  Slice  through  the  center  and  insert 
a  layer  of  ice  cream  for  filling.  Use  a  warm  sauce  for  covering 
instead  of  an  icing.  Pudding  sauces  or  those  used  on  ice  cream 
are  used  for  this  purpose. 

Whipped  Cream  Sandwiches 

Spread  between  thin  slices  of  cake  a  filling  made  of  whipped 
cream  which  has  been  sweetened  and  flavored.  Chopped  nuts  or 
candied  fruit  may  be  added  to  the  whipped  cream. 

Lemon  Sandwiches 

Mix  together  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch. To  this  mixture  add  1  cupful  of  water^  1  beaten  egg,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon.  Cook  until  thick  and  when  cool  spread  between  slices  of 
buttered  bread  or  cake. 

Hot  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Stew  a  chicken  until  tender.  Then  remove  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  break  or  clip  with  the  scissors  into  tiny  bits.  Run  the 
giblets  through  the  food  grinder.  Add  sufficient  broth  to  the 
chicken  to  make  it  moist.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Thicken  the  other  portion  of  the  broth  with  flour,  using  li/^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  every  cupful  of  broth.     Boil,  season 


166     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  dash  of  celery  salt.  Place  the 
warm  chicken  on  a  slice  of  bread,  cover  with  another  slice  of 
bread  and  then  add  some  hot  gravy.  This  served  on  a  plate  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  a  pickle  makes  good  refreshments  for  a 
social  or  party.     A  large  hen  will  make  at  least  36  sandwiches. 

Pork  Sandwiches 

Arrange  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon  on  thinly  sliced  bread. 
Cover  this  with  slices  of  cold  roast  pork.  Drain  a  piece  of  firm 
canned  tomato  and  place  on  top  of  the  pork  and  cover  with  a  thin 
slice  of  buttered  bread. 

Sausage  Sandwiches 

Cut  cooked  sausage  cakes  in  thin  slices  and  spread  on  buttered 
bread.  Place  minced  celery  over  the  sausage  and  add  the  cover- 
ing of  buttered  bread. 

Pork  Chop  Sandwiches 

Bone  the  chops  and  dip  in  a  batter  made  by  thickening  a  little 
milk  with  flour.  Saute  until  thoroughly  cooked  and  brown. 
Then  place  between  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Onions,  sliced 
thinly,  may  be  inserted  in  the  sandwich  if  one  desires. 

Hot  Ham  Sandwiches 

Take  small  pieces  of  cooked  ham  or  pork  and  force  through 
the  food  grinder.  Mix  with  sufficient  salad  dressing  or  mustard 
to  hold  the  mixture  together  and  spread  thinly  on  slices  of  but- 
tered bread.  Dip  every  sandwich  in  a  batter  made  by  beating  an 
egg  and  adding  %  cupful  of  milk.  Season  this  with  I/2  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Brown  the  sandwiches  on  both  sides  in  a  hot 
frying  pan.    Serve  while  hot  with  syrup. 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwiches 

On  a  slice  of  buttered  and  toasted  bread  place  a  thin  slice  of 
fried  ham.  Add  a  little  mustard  and  cover  with  a  slice  of  but- 
tered toast.  Place  a  fried  egg  on  top  of  the  sandwich  and  serve 
hot  for  supper  or  breakfast. 


CHAPTER  28 
SAUCES 

An  old  saying  which  has  considerable  truth  in  it  is :  "A  cook 
is  knowTL  by  the  sauces  she  makes."  It  takes  effort  to  prepare  a 
smooth,  properly  blended  sauce,  but  of  all  culinary  creations  it 
can  do  more  toward  making  the  ordinary  dish  toothsome  than 
anything  else. 

White  sauces  to  combine  with  different  foods  are  of  great 
value,  as  are  sweet  sauces,  sometimes  colored  with  fruit  juice, 
which  are  served  with  puddings,  ice  cream  and  other  desserts. 
Many  a  meat  and  fish  dish  is  lifted  above  the  commonplace  by 
the  use  of  a  savory  sauce. 

White  Sauce  for  Cream  Soups 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tabiespoonful  flour  1  tablespoonful  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  butter  and  flour  which  have 
been  blended  together.  Add  the  salt  and  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  the  sauce  thickens.  Combine  equal  portions  of 
this  sauce  and  the  pulp  of  the  vegetable  or  food  to  be  used  in 
making  cream  soup. 

White  Sauce  for  Creamed  Dishes 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  butter  and  flour  which  have 
been  blended  together.  Add  the  salt  and  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  the  sauce  thickens.  Use  equal  portions  of  sauce 
and  food  to  be  creamed.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  food  and  if 
necessary,  reheat. 

167 


168     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

White  Sauce  for  Scalloped  Dishes 

Use  the  white  sauce  for  creamed  dishes  and  an  equal  amount 
of  food.  Place  alternate  layers  of  the  sauce  and  food  in  a  greased 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

White  Sauce  for  Souffles 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonfui  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  butter  which  has  been 
mixed  thoroughly  with  the  flour.  Add  the  salt.  Cook,  stirring 
constantly,  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Use  equal  portions  of 
sauce  and  food  for  a  souffle,  using  3  eggs  to  every  cupful  of 
sauce.  Add  the  egg  yolks  to  the  sauce,  stir  in  the  food  and  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish 
set  in  a  pan  of  water. 

White  Sauce  for  Croquettes 

1  cupful  milk  %  teaspoonfui  salt 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  butter  which  has  been 
mixed  thoroughly  with  the  flour.  Add  the  salt.  Cook,  stirring 
constantly,  until  the  sauce  thickens.  In  making  croquettes  use 
equal  portions  of  the  sauce  and  food.  Mix  and  cool.  Shape^  roll 
in  crumbs,  and  then  in  egg  and  crumbs.     Fry  and  drain. 

Parsley  Sauce 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  4  teaspoonfuls  chopped  parsley 

4  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice  %  teaspoonfui  salt 

Cream  butter  with  a  spoon,  add  parsley  and  salt.  Add  the 
lemon  juice  slowly.  Place  on  steak  or  other  food  and  allow  the 
butter  to  melt. 

Egg  Sauce 

Make  the  white  sauce  for  creamed  dishes  and  add  to  it  2  hard 
cooked  eggs  chopped  in  fine  pieces  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  minced 
parsley.     Serve  with  fish. 


SAUCES  169 

Cucumber  Sauce 

Grind  2  cucumbers,  after  washing  and  peeling  them,  drain, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  and  serve  with  fried  fish  or 
meat. 

Tomato  Sauce 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  Vz  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion  %  teaspoonful  sugar 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  cupfuls  strained  canned  tomatoes 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  onion  and  cook  gently  a  few  minutes ; 
add  the  flour  and  seasonings  and  gradually  stir  in  the  tomato. 
Bring  the  mixture  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  occasionally. 
Let  boil  a  moment  or  two  and  serve  with  meat. 

Tomato  Sauce 

When  tomatoes  are  ripe,  this  recipe  may  be  used.  Mince  fine 
or  put  through  the  food  grinder  a  slice  of  salt  pork.  Fry  this 
until  it  is  a  light  brown.  Then  add  1  small  onion,  finely 
chopped,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  carrot,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  chopped  turnip  and  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  sweet  pepper. 
Brown  the  vegetables  lightly  and  add  to  them  6  cupfuls  of  un- 
peeled,  but  sliced,  tomatoes,  2  cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  i/2  bay 
leaf  and  a  small  stalk  of  celery  cut  in  bits.  A  little  celery  salt 
may  be  used  if  the  vegetable  itself  is  not  available.  Simmer  45 
minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve  or  colander  and  thicken  with  1^^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  water. 

> 
Chocolate  Sauce 

2  squares  chocolate  1  cupful  boiling  water 
1^  cupfuls  sugar                                     2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  butter  and  gradually 

add  the  water.    Boil  15  minutes,  add  the  vanilla  and  serve  while 

warm  or  when  cold  on  ice  cream.  i 

\ 

Hot  Cocoa  Sauce 

2  tablespoonfuls  cocoa  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

IVz  cupfuls  water  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch 


170     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  2  minutes,  add  the  corn- 
starch mixed  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  the  cocoa  which  has 
been  mixed  with  a  little  warm  water  and  boil  3  minutes.  Add 
salt  and  vanilla.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  serve  while  hot  on 
ice  cream. 

Date  and  Nut  Sauce 

4  tablespoonfuls  dates  %  cupful  sugar 

4  tablespoonfuls  nuts  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  water  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Chop  the  dates  and  boil  them  with  the  sugar  and  water  until 
the  liquid  makes  a  syrup.  Remove  from  the  stove,  cool,  add  nuts 
and  vanilla  and  serve  on  ice  cream. 

Brittle  Nut  Sauce 

1  cupful  sugar  1  cupful  nut  meats 

Caramelize  the  sugar  by  placing  it  in  a  pan  and  heating  on  the 
stove,  stirring  constantly.  Do  not  add  any  water.  When  the 
mass  becomes  light  brown  in  color  and  is  melted,  add  the  nuts 
and  pour  into  an  oiled  pan.  When  cold^  roll  until  very  fine  and 
sprinkle  on  top  of  ice  cream. 

Hot  Fudge  Sauce 

2  squares  chocolate  1  tablespoonful  butter 

2  cupfuls  water  2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water 

1%  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

2  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  the  grated  chocolate,  water  and  sugar  together  and  cook 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  chocolate  is  melted.  Then 
add  the  cornstarch  which  is  mixed  with  the  cold  water  and 
butter.  Boil  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  salt  and 
flavoring.     Serve  either  warm  or  cold  on  ice  cream  or  pudding. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


Vanilla  Sauce 

1  cupful  boiling  water  %  cupful  sugar 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  salt 


SAUCES  171 

Combine  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Gradually  pour  in  the  boiling  water,  add  the  butter,  stirring 
constantly,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  for  5  minutes. 
Then  add  vanilla  and  serve  hot. 

Lemon  Sauce 

1%  cupfuls  boiling  water  %  cupful  sugar 

1%  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice  grated  rind  of  ^  lemon 

Combine  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  boiling  vrater^  stirring 
constantly,  the  melted  butter  and  the  lemon  rind.  Boil  5  min- 
utes.    Eemove  from  fire,  add  lemon  juice  and  serve  hot. 

Nutmeg  Sauce 

1^4  cupfuls  boiling  water  %  cupful  sugar 

1^4  tablespoonfuls  flour  %   teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1^  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Combine  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt  and  stir  constantly  while 
adding  the  boiling  water.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  boil  5 
minutes.  Eemove  from  the  stove  and  add  the  nutmeg.  Serve 
while  hot. 

Chocolate  Fudge  Sauce 

2  squares  chocolate  1%  cupfuls  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Melt  the  butter  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  salt.  Gradually  add 
half  of  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Melt  the  chocolate  over 
water,  add  the  sugar  and  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  it,  stir  and  cook 
together  until  a  syrup  is  made.  Then  combine  the  mixtures 
and  cook  gently  for  5  minutes  or  until  the  mixture  is  quite  thick. 

Caramel  Sauce 

1  cupful  sugar  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch 

214  cupfuls  boiling  water  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  tablespoonful  butter  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Caramelize  the  sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  that  is,  melt  it  over  the 
fire  by  stirring  it  until  light  browm  in  color.  Do  not  add  any 
water  until  the  sugar  is  melted.    Then  add  the  boiling  water  and 


172     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

cook  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the  melted  butter,  corn- 
starch and  salt  which  have  been  creamed  together.  Boil  3 
minutes,  add  the  vanilla  and  serve  hot. 


Brown  Sugar  Sauce 

%  cupful  cream  1  cupful  brown  sugar 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla  %  cupful  butter 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  cream  grad- 
ually. Add  the  vanilla,  heat  slightly  and  beat  thoroughly  before 
serving. 

Fruit  Sauce 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  cupful  fruit 

1  cupful  j>owdered  sugar  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream  ^  teaspoonful  vanilla 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  beat  in  the  sugar  and  cream  alternately. 
Add  the  salt  and  slowly  stir  in  the  fruit.  Then  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  flavoring.  Crushed  berries  or  peaches  or  canned 
berries,  pineapple,  peaches,  berries  or  apricots  may  be  used,  but 
they  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces  before  being  added. 


Hard  Sauce 

6  tablespoonfuls  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  cream 

3  cupfuls  powdered  sugar  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  sugar,  a  little  at  a 
time,  then  stir  in  the  flavoring  and  the  cream.  Chopped  nuts  or 
shredded  cocoanut  may  be  added.  Serve  on  a  hot  pudding  or 
apple  pie. 

Berry  Butter 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  cupful  powdered  sugar 

14  cupful  crushed  berries 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  powdered  sugar 
gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  berries,  a  few  at  a  time, 
beating  all  the  while.  Set  in  a  cold  place  until  used.  Straw- 
berries and  red  raspberries  make  a  delicious  butter,  as  do  crushed 
peaches. 


SAUCES  173 

Foamy  Egg  Sauce 

1  egg  Y2  cupful  whipped  cream 

14  cupful  powdered  sugar  l^^  tablespoonfuls  milk 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat  the  Qgg  white  until  stiff  and  dry  and  beat  in  the  pow- 
dered sugar.  When  smooth,  add  the  vanilla  and  the  Qgg  yolk, 
beaten  until  light  and  lemon  colored.  Then  stir  in  the  milk  and 
serve  at  once. 

Cider  Sauce 

1  cupful  sweet  cider  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice 

%  cupful  sugar 

Boil  the  ingredients  together  3  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  any 
plum  pudding. 


CHAPTER  29 
SOUPS,  CHOWDERS  AND  DUMPLINGS 

The  two  most  commonly  used  soups  are  those  made  from  meat 
stock  and  those  including  white  sauce  (thickened  milk)  for  a 
foundation.  Broth  is  the  liquid  in  which  meat  is  cooked  after  it 
is  strained  and  seasoned.  A  chowder  is  a  very  thick  soup;  it  is 
in  reality  an  unstrained  stew  made  by  combining  cut  fish,  meat 
and  vegetables  with  milk. 

Stock  soups  and  broth  are  best  adapted  to  use  as  the  first 
course  in  a  meal,  while  the  cream  soups  and  chowders,  on  account 
of  their  great  food  value,  should  be  served  as  the  main  dish  in  an 
otherwise  light  meal.  Cream  soups  are  of  great  value  in  the  diet 
of  the  child  because  they  contain  so  much  milk. 

Cream  Soups 

Use  equal  portions  of  the  White  Sauce  for  Cream  Soups,  the 
recipe  for  which  is  given  in  the  chapter  on  Sauces,  and  the  pulp 
of  the  vegetable  or  food  to  be  used  in  making  the  soup.  Combine 
an.d  heat. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

iy2  cupfuls  white  sauce  speck  baking  soda 

1^  cupfuls  tomato  juice  and  pulp       2  cloves 

1  bay  leaf 

Add  the  cloves  and  bay  leaf  to  the  tomatoes  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  After  boiling  a  minute  or  two,  add  a  tiny  speck  of  soda 
and  strain.  Pour  the  tomato  juice  and  pulp  into  the  white  sauce, 
stirring  constantly.  Reheat  at  once.  Avoid  bringing  to  a  boil. 
Whi])  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  and  serve  at  once.  Use  the  recipe 
for  White  Sauce  for  Cream  Soups  which  is  given  in  the  chapter 
on  Sauces. 

174 


SOUPS,  CHOWDERS   AXD  DUMPLIXGS         175 
Oyster  Stew 

2  cupfuls  oysters  ^4  cupful  butter 

1  quart  milk  salt 

pepper 

Clean  and  drain  oysters.  Add  liquor  to  the  scalded  milk  and 
stir  in  the  butter  and  seasonings  to  taste.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  oysters  and  serve. 

Chili  Con  Cami 

2  cupfuls  chili  beans  4  cupfuls  tomatoes 
%  pound  lean  beef  3  small  onions 

^  cupful  suet  1  tablespoonful  chili  powder 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  4  cupfuls  water 

Cook  the  beans  in  water  and  when  tender,  mash  slightly. 
Force  the  onions,  meat  and  suet  through  the  food  grinder. 
Place  the  suet  in  a  frjdng  pan  on  the  stove  and  when  the  fat  is 
rendered,  add  the  onions,  meat  and  chili  powder.  Fry  5  minutes, 
Then  turn  into  a  kettle  with  the  beans  and  canned  tomatoes,  add 
the  salt  and  the  boiling  water.  Let  cook  slowly  4  hours.  One 
may  use  more  chili  pepper  if  a  hotter  dish  is  desired. 

Peanut  Butter  Soup 

4  cupfuls  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

%  cupful  peanut  butter  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  peanut  butter  and  seasonings  and 
serve. 

Pea  Soup 

3  cupfuls  peas  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

few  drops  onion  juice 

Press  the  stewed  peas  through  a  sieve.  Thicken  the  milk  with 
flour,  add  the  butter  and  seasonings  and  the  peas.  Serve  piping 
hot. 

Potato  Soup 

3  potatoes  1  bay  leaf 

2  cupfuls  water  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  slice  onion  1  quart  milk 

14  cupful  chopped  celery  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter 


176     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Pare  the  large  potatoes  and  cut  in  cubes.  Cover  with  the 
boiling  water,  add  the  onion,  chopped  celery  or  i/4  teaspoonful  of 
celery  salt,  the  bay  leaf  and  pepper.  Cook  until  the  vegetables 
are  tender.  Press  through  a  colander.  Heat  the  milk  and  add 
the  flour  and  butter  which  have  been  mixed  together.  Add  the 
potato  mixture  and  cook  until  the  soup  thickens  slightly.  Stir 
constantly  after  the  flour  is  added. 

Sweet  Potato  Soup 

Use  sweet  potatoes  instead  of  Irish  potatoes  and  follow  the 
directions  for  Potato  Soup. 

Pumpkin  Soup 

Use  pumpkin  instead  of  potatoes  and  follow  the  directions  for 
Potato  Soup. 

Squash  Soup 

Use  Hubbard  squash  instead  of  potatoes  and  follow  the  direc- 
tions for  Potato  Soup. 

Vegetable  Soup 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion  1  quart  milk 

1  tablespoonful  butter  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1  small  carrot  1  level  teaspoonful  salt 

2  cupfuls  diced  turnips  speck  pepi)€r 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  until  it  is  a  delicate  yellow  in 
color,  then  add  the  chopped  carrot  and  turnips.  Cover  and  cook 
on  the  back  of  the  range  30  minutes.  Force  through  a  colander. 
Thicken  the  heated  milk  with  the  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the 
cold  milk,  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  the  vegetable  mixture. 

Lima  Bean  Soup 

2  cupfuls  beans  1  bay  leaf 

1  quart  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  grated  onion 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  1  teaspoonful  salt 

V4,  teaspoonful  pepper 

Cook  the  beans  in  a  little  water  until  they  are  tender.  Press 
them  through  a  colander.  Place  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and 
add  the  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk.     Add  the 


SOUPS,  CHOWDERS  AND  DUMPLINGS         177! 

other  ingredients  and  cook  in  the  double  boiler  until  the  soup 
thickens. 

Cabbage  Soup 

1  quart  chopped  cabbage  speck  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion  1  quart  water 
1  teaspoonful  celery  salt                         2  cupfuls  milk 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Chop  the  cabbage  and  cook  in  the  quart  of  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  the 
butter  and  flour  having  been  mixed  together,  and  cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens  a  little. 

Spinach  Soup 

1  quart  spinach  2   tablespoonfuls  flour 

%  cupful  water  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion  %  teaspoonful  celery  salt 

1  quart  milk  dash  of  pepper 

Steam  the  spinach  in  the  water  15  minutes.  Chop  and  push 
through  a  colander.  Return  to  a  kettle  with  the  liquid  in  which 
it  cooked  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  having  the  butter  and 
flour  mixed  together.  Cook  until  the  mixture  thickens  slightly 
and  serve  piping  hot. 

Onion  Soup 

4  onions  2  cupfuls  cold  water 

2  slices  bacon  1^  cupfuls  milk 

1  tablespoonful  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

%  teaspoonful  pepper 

Select  medium-sized  onions,  slice  and  cook  gently  with  the 
bacon  until  the  onions  are  a  very  light  brown.  Then  add  the 
cold  water  and  boil  until  the  onions  are  so  tender  that  they  may 
be  mashed  with  a  spoon.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,  flour  and  milk, 
dissolving  the  flour  in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk.  Boil  3  min- 
utes and  serve. 

Celery  Soup 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  cupfuls  diced  celery 
1  tablespoonful  flour  2  cupfuls  water 

1  large  slice  of  onion  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Boil  the  celery  in  the  water  40  minutes,  heat  the  milk  to  which 
the  onion  has  been  added  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter  which 


178     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

have  been  blended  together.    Add  the  celery  and  the  salt.    Strain 
and  serve. 

Brown  Beef  Stock 

5  pounds  shin  of  beef  V2  cupful  carrots 
3  quarts  cold  water  %  cupful  turnips 

6  cloves  V2  cupful  onions 
%  bay  leaf  %  cupful  celery 

2  sprigs  parsley  1  cupful  tomatoes 

Wipe  the  beef  with  a  damp  cloth  and  cut  the  lean  portion  in 
1-inch  pieces.  Brown  half  of  the  meat  in  a  hot  frying  pan  in  a 
little  bntter,  and  put  the  other  half  with  the  bone  and  fat  in  the 
soup  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Let  stand  1  hour.  Then  place 
on  the  cool  part  of  the  range^  add  the  browned  meat  and  heat 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  Cover  and  cook  6  hours.  Keep 
below  the  boiling  point  during  the  cooking.  Add  the  vegetables 
cut  in  small  pieces^  cook  II/2  hours  and  strain.  Before  serving 
add  salt  to  taste. 


Tomato  Soup 

2  cupfuls  beef  stock  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

2  cupfuls  stewed  tomatoes  %  teaspoonful  celery  salt 

1  green  pepper  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Add  the  strained  tomatoes  to  the  seasoned  stock  and  then  stir 
in  the  thinly  sliced  pepper.  Simmer  20  minutes.  Add  the 
butter  and  flour  mixed  together  and  stir  in  the  seasonings. 
Cook  until  the  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 


Chicken  Soup 

2  quarts  chicken  broth  1  sprig  parsley 

1  slice  carrot  6  egg  yolks 

1  slice  onion  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  stalk  celery  ^A  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  cupful  hot  cream 

Cook  the  chicken  broth  with  the  vegetables  15  minutes. 
Strain  over  the  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks  and  stir  over  hot  water 
until  the  mixture  thickens.  Add  the  other  ingredients  just  be- 
fore serving. 


SOUPS,  CHOWDERS  AND  DUMPLINGS         179 
Com  Chowder 

1  quart  potatoes  1%  cupfuls  corn 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  cupful  milk 

^  pound  salt  pork  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  medium-sized  onion  salt 

10  crackers 

Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  parboil  them  in  water.  Try 
the  fat  from  the  pork.  Chop  the  onion  into  bits  and  brown  in 
the  fat.  Add  the  fat  to  the  boiling  water,  stir  in  the  potatoes  and 
com  and  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  either  cream 
or  milk  and  season  to  taste.     Eeheat  and  pour  over  the  crackers. 

Boston  Chowder 

%  pound  salt  pork,  diced  4^  cupfuls  milk 

1  medium-sized  onion,  sliced  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

2  cupfuls  potatoes,  diced  8  crackers 

21/^  cupfuls  water  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1%  cupfuls  parsnips,  diced  ^  teaspoonful  pepper 

Try  the  fat  from  the  salt  pork  and  cook  the  onions  in  it.  Then 
add  the  potatoes,  parsnips  and  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
tender.    Add  the  milk  and  seasonings  and  pour  over  the  crackers. 

Fish  Chowder 

1  cupful  fish,  diced  4  cupfuls  potatoes,  diced 

%  pound  salt  pork,  diced  1  cupful  milk 

1  medium-sized  onion,  sliced  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

4  cupfuls  fish  stock  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

8  crackers 

Clean  and  bone  the  fish  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  in  water, 
saving  the  stock.  Parboil  the  potatoes  and  drain.  Try  the  fat 
from  the  pork.  Brown  the  onion  in  the  fat  and  add  to  the  stock. 
Add  the  potatoes  and  fish  and  cook  until  tender.  Then  add  the 
milk  and  seasonings  and  pour  over  the  crackers. 


DUMPLINGS 
Plain  Dumplings 

2  cupfuls  flour  V2  teaspoonful  salt 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  %  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  fat 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  work  in  the  fat  and  add  the 
milk  gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough.    EoU  out  I/2  inch  thick 


180     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Cook  about  15  minutes  with  soup 
stock  or  with  a  meat  stew.  Do  not  lift  the  kettle  lid  during  the 
cooking. 

Commeal  Dumplings 

1  cupful  cornmeal  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  white  flour  1  beaten  egg 
4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder                milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  beaten  egg  and  sufficient 
milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Then 
drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  boiling  stew  or  soup,  cover  and  cook 
20  minutes. 

Noodles 

2  eggs  1  teaspoonful  salt 

flour 

Beat  the  eggs  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 
Knead  thoroughly  3  minutes,  divide  the  dough  into  two  parts 
and  roll  each  one  into  a  thin  sheet.  Cover  and  let  stand  until 
dry.  Then  cut  in  narrow  strips,  drop  in  broth  or  stock  and  boil 
rapidly  20  minutes. 


CHAPTEE  30 
VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  should  be  firm  and  crisp  when  made  ready  for 
cooking.  If  they  are  wilted,  they  may  be  freshened  by  soaking  in 
cold  water  a  few  hours  or  by  being  wrapped  in  a  damp  cloth 
and  set  in  a  cold  place.  The  method  of  cooking  varies  with  the 
different  varieties,  so  no  general  rules  can  be  given. 

The  water  or  liquor  in  which  vegetables  are  cooked  should 
always  be  saved  and  used.  If  it  is  not  possible  to  boil  down  the 
liquor  so  that  it  can  be  served  with  the  vegetable  dish,  it  may  be 
drained  off  and  used  in  soup  or  gravy.  This  liquid  contains 
much  food  value  since  the  soluble  food  substances  in  the  vege- 
tables dissolve  into  it  during  the  cookery  and  are  lost  if  thrown 
away. 

Oven  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes.  Cut  in  eights  lengthwise  and 
place  in  an  oiled  dripping  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  dot  with  small  pieces  of  lard  or  other  cooking  fat.  Set  in  a 
hot  oven  and  cook  until  tender. 

Pickled  Beets 

12  medium-siz€d  beets  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  cupfuls  vinegar  %  cupful  sugar 

Heat  vinegar  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar  and  salt  and 
pour  the  mixture  over  the  boiled  beets.  Let  stand  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Boiled  Beets 

Cut  tops  from  beets,  leaving  1%  inches  of  stem.  Wash,  boil 
until  tender  and  drain.  W^hen  cool,  remove  the  skin  and  cut  off 
the  roots.     Serve  with  butter,  adding  salt  to  taste. 

181 


182     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

String  Beans  Vingrette 

Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  fat  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  l^  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  When  thor- 
oughly mixed,  pour  on  i/4  cupful  of  vinegar  and  l^  cupful  of  the 
liquor  from  canned  beans  or  the  liquid  in  which  fresh  beans  were 
cooked.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  boil.  Stir  in  2  cupfuls 
of  canned  or  cooked  string  beans  and  serve  while  hot. 

Buttered  Asparagus 

Cut  off  the  lower  parts  of  the  stalks  as  far  down  as  they  snap. 
Wash  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  w^ater  20  minutes  or  until  the 
asparagus  is  tender.  Drain  and  spread  with  butter,  using  li/^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  every  cupful  of  asparagus. 

Buttered  Spinach 

Eemove  the  roots,  pick  over  and  wash  the  spinach,  making 
certain  that  all  the  sand  is  removed.  Place  in  a  saucepan  and  let 
the  spinach  cook  in  its  own  juices  25  minutes,  or  if  there  is  not 
sufficient  juice  for  this  purpose,  add  a  small  amount  of  water. 
Cook  until  all  the  water  or  liquid  has  evaporated  and  then  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Buttered  spinach  is  made  attrac- 
tive by  garnishing  with  slices  of  hard  cooked  eggs. 

Buttered  Peas 

Drain  canned  or  stewed  peas  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Boil  or  steam  the  potatoes  until  tender.  Cool  and  cut  in  dice. 
Melt  some  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  place  the  potatoes  in  this. 
Toss  until  the  cubes  are  coated  thoroughly  with  the  butter.  Then 
pour  over  a  white  sauce  made  by  thickening  milk  with  flour, 
using  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  every  cupful  of  milk  and  1 
cupful  of  milk  to  the  same  amount  of  potatoes.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 


VEGETABLES  183 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Cut  off  the  stem  end  of  large  green  peppers  and  parboil  10 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  Drain,  cool  and  stuff  with  creamed 
potatoes.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the 
oven  15  minutes. 

Turnips  Delicious 

Select  young  turnips,  pare  and  boil  whole  in  meat  stock  until 
tender.  Drain  and  save  the  stock.  Place  the  turnips  in  a 
buttered  casserole,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt,  nutmeg  and  dots  of 
butter.  Boil  down  stock  and  pour  into  the  casserole.  Bake  until 
the  turnips  are  slightly  browned. 

Sweet  Potatoes  en  Casserole 

5  large  sweet  potatoes  3  tablespoonfuls  butter 

4  ripe  apples  %  cupful  brown  sugar 

1^2  teaspoonfuls  salt  %  cupful  hot  water 

Boil  the  sweet  potatoes  until  tender.  Cool  and  remove  the 
skins.  Cut  in  thin  slices.  Slice  the  ripe  apples  thinly,  after 
paring  and  removing  the  cores,  and  arrange  alternate  layers  of 
the  apples  and  sweet  potatoes  in  a  buttered  casserole.  Sprinkle 
every  layer  Avith  brown  sugar,  salt  and  dots  of  butter.  After 
adding  the  last  layer,  which  should  be  of  potatoes,  add  the  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  apples  are  cooked  and  the 
top  is  neatly  browned. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  then  in 
pieces  like  the  section  of  an  orange.  Let  stand  in  cold 
water  an  hour  or  longer,  th^n  dry  on  a  soft  cloth.  Fry  in  hot 
fat  until  a  rich  straw  color  on  both  sides  and  tender  throughout. 
Drain  on  soft  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve  at  once.  The 
fat  is  hot  enough  to  use  when  a  small  cube  of  bread  browns  in  it 
in  20  seconds. 

Beets  in  Sour  Sauce 

12  small  beets  %  tablespoonful  cornstarch 

%  cupful  sugar  %  cupful  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter 


184     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Wash  beets  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft  or  use  canned 
beets.  Remove  skins  and  cut  beets  in  small  cubes.  Mix  sugar 
and  cornstarch,  add  vinegar  and  boil  5  minutes.  Pour  over  beets 
and  let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  30  minutes.  Just  before 
serving  add  the  butter. 

Stuffed  Cabbage 

Select  a  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage  and  wash  thoroughly. 
Separate  the  leaves  and  remove  the  center.  Fasten  into  shape  or 
tie  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  and  steam  or  simmer  until  tender. 
Fill  the  center  with  cooked  hamburg  balls  and  surround  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Bessie's  Potatoes 

8  medium-sized   potatoes  2  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 

2  onions  V2  teaspoonful  salt 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  ^  teaspoonful  pepper 

Wash,  pare  and  quarter  the  potatoes.  Make  an  incision  in 
each  potato  and  fill  with  onion.  Put  in  a  baking  pan  and  pour 
the  water  and  butter  mixture  over  them.  Cook  in  a  hot  oven, 
basting  frequently. 

Creamed  Onions 

8  medium-sized  onions  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1%  tablespoonfuls  flour  1  cupful  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Peel  the  onions  and  put  in  a  pan,  covering  them  with  salted 
boiling  water.  Boil  5  minutes,  drain  and  again  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Cook  until  soft,  drain  and  break  into  small  pieces. 
Add  to  a  sauce  made  by  melting  the  butter  in  a  small  pan  and 
adding  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  the  mixture  until  it  is 
thoroughly  blended.  The  milk  is  poured  in  gradually,  having 
been  scalded  previously,  and  the  mixture  is  stirred  constantly. 
Beat  until  smooth  and  glossy  and  serve  at  once. 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

3  cupfuls  canned  tomatoes  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  onion  juice  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  cupful  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of 
tomato,  then  add  salt,  butter  and  cover  with  buttered  bread 


VEGETABLES  185 

crumbs.  Eepeat  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used,  having  the 
top  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown  or 
about  15  minutes. 

Glazed  Carrots 

6  medium-sized  carrots  4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Wash  and  scrape  3  medium-sized  carrots;  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water,  allowing  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  4  cupfuls  of  water 
and  using  a  small  amount  of  liquid  and  a  covered  utensil  in 
order  that  the  natural  flavor  be  retained.  When  cooked,  drain 
and  cut  in  slices.  For  the  glaze  melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  the  sugar  and  when  it  is  melted,  toss  the  cooked  carrots  in  it 
until  slightly  browned  and  glazed. 

Steamed  Squash 

Steam  or  boil  squash  cut  in  small  pieces.  Drain  and  dry. 
Mash  and  put  through  a  sieve  or  ricer.  To  every  cupful  of 
squash  add  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  14  teaspoonful  of  salt,  % 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  1  tablespoonful  of  cream.  Beat  until 
light  and  fluffy. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

6  large  sweet  potatoes  %  cupful  sugar 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  3  tablespoonfuls  water 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Cook  10  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water.  Drain,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  put  in  buttered 
pans.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water  3  minutes ; 
add  butter  and  brush  the  potatoes  with  it.  Bake  15  minutes, 
basting  twice  with  some  of  the  syrup  saved  for  this  purpose. 

Sweet  Com  Delicious 

8  ears  corn  2  cupfuls  milk 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  teaspoonful  salt 

Ys  teaspoonful  pepper 

Cut  the  kernels  from  the  cobs  and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
the  butter.  Cook  12  minutes,  then  add  the  milk,  salt  and 
pepper.  As  soon  as  the  milk  is  hot^  the  corn  is  ready  to  be 
served. 


186  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Badger  Squaw  Dish 

%  pound  bacon  %  teaspoonful  salt 

1%  cupfuls  canned  corn  %=  teaspoonful  pepper 

Cut  the  sliced  bacon  in  tiny  squares  and  brown  in  a  frying 
pan.  When  delicately  browned,  pour  off  some  of  the  fat,  leaving 
5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  in  the  pan.  Add  the  corn,  salt  and  pepper 
and  cook  5  minutes.  Serve  hot. 


Corn  with  Ham 

1  cupful  corn  1  egg 

4  cupfuls  chopped  ham  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Combine  the  ham  and  corn  and  mix  the  egg  and  pepper  into 
the  mixture.  Form  into  little  cakes  and  brown  on  both  sides  in 
a  frying  pan  containing  a  little  bacon  fat. 


Lima  Beans  Delicious 

2  cupfuls  lima  beans  1  cupful  milk 

14  pound  sliced  bacon  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  medium-sized  onions  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

Brown  the  bacon,  remove  from  the  frying  pan  and  cook  the 
chopped  onions  in  the  fat  until  tender.  Then  combine  all  the 
ingredients,  place  in  a  greased  casserole  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  the  beans  are  tender,  adding  more  milk  if  it  is  needed. 


Baked  Cabbage 

2  cupfuls  boiled  cabbage  1  cupful  milk 

1  tablespoonful  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  pepper 
%  cupful  bread  crumbs  4  tablespoonfuls  cheese 

Place  a  thin  layer  of  the  chopped  cabbage  in  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  of  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  some 
of  the  butter  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Eepeat 
this  process  until  the  dry  ingredients  are  used,  having  the  top 
layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Pour  on  the  milk  and  sprinkle  the 
grated  cheese  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  top  is 
browned  nicely. 


VEGETABLES  187 

Sweet  Potato  Balls 

5  sweet  potatoes  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  nut  meats  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

Boil  the  sweet  potatoes  and  mash.    Add  the  other  ingredients 
and  shape  into  balls.     Boll  these  in  flour  and  browTi  in  butter. 


Baked  Carrots 

Select  small,  tender  carrots,  allowing  two  or  three  for  each 
person.  Scrape  them  and  boil  or  steam  until  tender.  Stack  them 
in  a  baking  dish  in  cord-wood  fashion,  sprinkle  them  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  lay  thinly  sliced  bacon  over  them.  Place  in  a 
hot  oven  and  bake  until  the  bacon  is  crisp. 

Hashed  Potatoes 

Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  in  a  frying  pan.  When  hot, 
add  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  small  cubes.  Add  sufficient  cold 
milk  to  cover.  When  the  milk  begins  to  simmer,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  hash  or  cut  the  potatoes  very  fine  with  a  knife. 
Turn  frequently  to  prevent  burning.  Brown  on  the  bottom  and 
turn  on  a  hot  platter. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

4  cupfuls  boiled  potatoes  1  onion 

4  tablespoonfuls  fat 

Cook  the  chopped  onion  a  few  minutes  in  1  tablespoonful  of 
fat.  Then  add  the  sliced  potatoes  and  the  rest  of  the  fat.  Let 
cook  until  all  the  fat  has  been  taken  up;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  brown. 

Potatoes  with  Sausage 

Mix  3  cupfuls  of  ground  sausage  with  3  finely  chopped  boiled 
potatoes  of  medium  size.  Add  ^  cupful  of  cream.  Form  into 
cakes  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  a  frying  pan.  Serve  with 
griddle  cakes. 


188     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Vegetable  Garnish 

Boil  equal  amounts  of  carrots,  parsnips,  potatoes  and  turnips 
separately.  When  tender,  rub  through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  butter  and  serve  hot  with  a  pot  roast  of  beef. 

Boiled  Lettuce 

Wash  the  leaves  and  cook  in  an  abundance  of  boiling  salted 
water  10  or  15  minutes.  Drain,  pour  over  cold  water  and  let 
stand  a  few  minutes.  Then  drain  again,  chop  in  small  pieces  and 
heat  in  a  pan  with  sufficient  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
This  boiled  lettuce  may  be  heated  with  a  cream  sauce  made  by 
thickening  2  cupfuls  of  milk  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Two  well  beaten  egg  yolks  are  added  to  the  cream  sauce  just 
before  the  lettuce  is  stirred  into  it. 

Escalloped  Asparagus 

3  cupfuls  asparagus  1%  teaspoonfuls  salt 

iy2  cupfuls  milk  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  %  cupful  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  1  cupful  bread  crumbs 

Cut  the  asparagus  in  small  pieces  and  stew  until  tender 
in  a  little  water.  Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour  and  season 
with  the  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Add  the  grated  cheese  and 
cooked  asparagus  to  the  milk  mixture  and  arrange  alternate 
layers  of  this  mixture  and  the  bread  crumbs  in  an  oiled  baking 
dish. 

Spinach  en  Casserole 

Season  2  cupfuls  of  hominy  grits  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
and  spread  1  cupful  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish. 
Add  a  layer  of  cooked  spinach  seasoned  to  taste.  Cover  with  the 
other  cupful  of  hominy  and  sprinkle  with  14  cupful  of  grated 
cheese.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  top  is  browned. 

Garden  Greens 

Select  leaves  of  mustard,  horseradish^  beet  tops,  radish  tops  or 
lambs  quarter  and  place  in  a  kettle  partly  filled  with  hot  water. 


VEGETABLES  189 

Add  a  piece  of  fat  smoked  meat  and  boil  until  tender.    Serve  hot 
on  a  platter  with  slices  of  lemon  and  hard  cooked  eggs. 

Creamed  Spinach 

1%  cupfuls  cooked  spinach  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1%  cupfuls  milk  1  teaspoonful  salt 

1  tablespoonful  flour  Vs  teaspoonful  pepper 

slices  of  toast 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour  and  add  the  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.    Stir  in  the  cooked  spinach  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast. 


Marie's  Asparagus 

2  cupfuls  asparagus  tips  1  tablespoonful  butter 

1%  cupfuls  milk  2  egg  whites 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  egg  yolks 

%  teaspoonful  pepper  1%  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Cook  the  asparagus  tips  in  a  little  water  until  they  are  tender. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  from  the  milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  flour. 
Pour  the  tender  asparagus  on  a  hot  platter  and  cover  it  with  the 
thickened  and  seasoned  milk  to  which  the  finely  chopped  whites 
of  the  hard  cooked  eggs  have  been  added.  Press  the  yolks  of  the 
cooked  eggs  through  a  fine  sieve  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  top 
of  the  dish. 

Vegetable  Oysters 

Grate  the  pulp  from  ears  of  cooked  corn,  or  use  the  canned 
vegetable,  and  to  every  cupful  add  1  egg  beaten  until  light  and 
foamy  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  sweet  milk,  flour  and  melted 
butter.  Add  salt  to  taste.  Stir  the  ingredients  together  and 
drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  hot  griddle.  Brown  on  both  sides.  Serve 
hot  with  or  without  syrup. 


Com  on  the  Cob 

Eemove  the  husks  and  silk  from  freshly  gathered  corn  and 
pack  the  ears  together  closely  in  a  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling  water, 
using  as  little  water  as  possible.  Cook  the  corn  no  longer  than 
8  minutes. 


190     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

String  Beans  with  Pork 

String  beans  may  be  cooked  with  a  slice  of  salt  pork.  Their 
flavor  is  most  delicious  if  the  beans  are  placed  in  a  kettle  of 
rapidly  boiling  water  with  the  pork  and  left  to  simmer  2i/^  or  3 
hours  at  the  least.  A  small  pinch  of  soda,  sugar  and  salt  may  be 
added  when  the  beans  are  placed  on  the  stove  to  cook. 


New  Peas 

New  peas  are  best  when  cooked  25  or  30  minutes  in  just 
barely  enough  water  to  cover.  The  pods  are  washed  before  the 
peas  are  shelled  and  for  an  especially  delectable  dish  they  are 
boiled  3  minutes  in  the  water  which  the  peas  are  cooked  in  later. 
Seasonings  are  added  just  before  taking  the  peas  from  the  stove. 

Festive  Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  3  sweet  potatoes  of  medium  size  until  tender.  Mash  and 
add  1/2  cupful  of  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  chopped  raisins  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  broken  nut  meats. 
For  seasoning  use  1/2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  grains  of 
cinnamon.  Place  this  in  an  oiled  baking  dish  and  cover  with  l^ 
pound  of  marshmallows.  Set  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  marsh- 
mallows  are  browned. 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin.  Put  a  layer  in  a  greased 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  repeat  this 
process  until  the  dish  is  full.  Dot  the  top  with  bits  of  butter 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  an  hour  or  until  the  potatoes  are 
brown  on  top.  Keep  covered  for  the  first  half  hour  and  then 
uncover. 

Fried  Eggplant 

Pare  an  eggplant  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pile  on  a  plate.  Cover  with  a  weight  to  press  out  the 
juice.  Let  stand  l^^  hours.  Dredge  with  flour  and  brown  slowly 
in  butter  until  crisp  and  brown. 


VEGETABLES  191 

Baked  Beans 

Pick  over  1  quart  of  beans,  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak 
overnight.  In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water  and 
heat  slowly,  keeping  the  water  below  the  boiling  point.  Cook 
■until  the  skins  burst.  Drain  beans.  Scald  rind  of  %  pound  of 
salt  pork,  mostly  fat,  scrape,  remove  i/4  inch  slice  and  place  it 
with  a  small  onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot  or  pail  in  which 
the  beans  are  to  be  baked.  Cut  through  the  rind  of  the  remaining 
pork  every  half  inch,  making  the  cut  at  least  an  inch  deep.  Put 
the  beans  in  the  pot  or  pail  and  bury  the  pork  in  them,  leaving 
the  rind  exposed.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
of  molasses,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
mustard  and  1  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Pour  this  over  the  beans, 
cover  the  utensil  holding  them  and  bake  until  the  beans  are 
tender  and  brown.  This  requires  about  8  hours.  If  they  are 
uncovered  the  last  hours  of  cooking,  they  will  brown  evenly. 

Chopped  Turnips 

Chop  hot  boiled  turnips  very  fine,  add  parsley,  salt,  butter 
and  lemon  juice  to  season. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 

3  cupfuls  diced  potatoes  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1^  cupfuls  milk  salt 

1  tablespoonful  flour  pepper 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese  buttered  crumbs 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  boiling  water  and  cut  in  dice.  Arrange  a 
layer  of  them  in  an  oiled  baking  dish^  cover  with  the  milk  which 
has  been  thickened  with  the  flour  and  seasoned  with  the  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  with  the  grated  cheese.  Repeat 
until  all  the  ingredients  are  used,  covering  the  top  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  brown  the  top  nicely 
and  to  heat  the  potatoes. 

Stuffed  Baked  Potatoes 

Bake  6  medium-sized  potatoes;  remove  from  the  oven  and  cut 
in  halves.  Scoop  out  the  inside ;  mash  and  beat  it  with  a  spoon. 
Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 


192     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  KULE  BOOK 

butter.  Then  fold  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  which  have  been 
beaten  until  stiff.  One  teaspoonful  of  salt  is  stirred  in  and  the 
potato  mixture  is  piled  in  the  skins.  Just  before  serving  the 
potatoes  are  baked  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Grandmother's  Succotash 

2  cupfuls  shelled  lima  beans  2  cupfuls  young  corn 

1  cupful  water  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Cook  the  lima  beans  in  the  water  until  they  are  tender.  Add 
the  corn  cut  from  the  cob  and  stir  in  the  saltj  sugar  and  butter. 
Cook  5  minutes  and  serve  piping  hot. 

Vegetable  Combination 

2  cupfuls  string  beans  1  teaspoonful  sugar 

2  cupfuls  lima  beans  ^4  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  cupfuls  young  corn  2  cupfuls  tomato  sauce 

1  teaspoonful  salt  ?>  tablespoonfuls  thick  cream 

water 

Cut  the  string  beans  in  small  pieces,  place  in  a  kettle  and  add 
boiling  water  to  cover;  add  the  salt  and  sugar  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Then  add  the  lima  beans  and  cook  until  the  vegetables 
are  tender.  Drain  and  add  the  tomato  sauce.  When  this  boils, 
add  the  corn  cut  from  the  cob  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  the 
cream  and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 


CHAPTER  31 
VINEGARS 

The  art  of  vinegar  making  which  our  grandmothers  knew  so 
well  is  becoming  extinct  in  most  American  homes.  On  farms 
where  an  abundance  of  fruit  is  available,  the  revival  of  this 
work  is  a  matter  of  thrift.  In  some  cases  customers  may  be 
secured  for  this  product  and  a  profitable  trade  developed. 

Fruits  used  for  making  vinegar  should  be  sound  and  ripe. 
Since  ripe  fruits  contain  more  sugar  than  underripe  ones,  they 
produce  a  stronger  vinegar.  Care  should  be  taken  to  have  all 
the  utensils  used  clean  and  to  wash  the  fruit  carefully  before 
crushing  it. 

Cider  Vinegar 

Wash  ripe  apples  and  remove  all  the  decayed  spots.  Crush  in 
a  cider  mill  or  run  through  a  food  chopper.  Squeeze  out  the 
juice  in  a  press  and  strain  into  a  clean  jar,  keg  or  barrel.  For 
every  5  gallons  of  juice  add  1  cake  of  yeast  which  is  softened  by 
soaking  in  a  cupful  of  the  liquid.  Stir  the  juice  after  the  yeast 
is  added.  Then  cover  it  with  a  clean  cloth  to  keep  out  insects 
and  allow  to  ferment.  Fermentation  is  accomplished  in  less 
than  a  week  if  the  temperature  of  the  room  in  which  the  juice  is 
kept  is  from  80  to  90  degrees  Fahrenheit.  A  second  fermenta- 
tion is  necessary  to  make  vinegar.  This  is  called  the  acetic  acid 
fermentation.  Before  this  starts,  the  juice  "\;vdll  cease  bubbling. 
When  this  occurs,  it  is  wise  to  add  1  gallon  of  a  good,  strong 
vinegar  to  every  5  gallons  of  the  fermented  juice,  but  this  is  not 
necessary.  The  addition  of  the  vinegar  gives  more  satisfactory 
and  uniform  results. 

After  adding  the  vinegar,  the  juice  is  covered  with  a  clean 
cloth  and  set  in  a  dark  place  having  a  temperature  of  from 
70  to  90  degrees  F.  Air  should  be  allowed  to  enter  but  the  film 
which  forms  on  top  should  not  be  disturbed.    By  tasting  of  the 

193 


194     THE  FAEM  COOK  AXD  EULE  BOOK 

vinegar  every  week  one  can  tell  when  it  is  sour  enough  or  when 
it  ceases  getting  more  sour.  Then  it  should  be  strained  off  in 
jugs  or  bottles  and  stoppered  tightly.  If  air  gets  to  it,  the 
vinegar  will  become  weak  and  will  lose  its  strength  or  sour  taste 
in  time. 

Other  Fruit  Vinegars 

Grapes,  oranges,  blackberries  and  pineapples  may  be  used  in 
the  place  of  the  apples  in  the  recipe  for  Cider  Vinegar. 

Peach  Vinegar 

Crush  ripe,  sound  peaches  with  a  potato  masher.  To  every 
bushel  of  peaches  use  1  cake  of  yeast,  first  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  water.  Place  in  a  clean  barrel  or  keg,  cover  with  a 
clean  cloth  and  allow  to  ferment  in  a  room  having  a  temperature 
of  from  80  to  90  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Stir  the  fruit  every  day  to 
keep  it  from  molding.  After  3  days,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and 
let  it  ferment  until  it  stops  bubbling.  Then  add  1  gallon  of  a 
strong,  good  vinegar  for  every  4  gallons  of  peach  juice.  Cover 
w4th  a  clean  cloth  and  set  in  a  dark  room  having  a  temperature 
of  from  70  to  90  degrees  F.  Taste  of  the  vinegar  every  week  and 
when  it  is  sour  enough,  strain  it  into  bottles  and  jugs  and 
stopper  them  tightly.  If  the  vinegar  is  cloudy,  allow  it  to  stand 
in  stoppered  kegs  until  the  sediment  sinks  to  the  bottom.  Then 
pour  it  off  carefully  without  disturbing  the  sediment. 

Raspberry  Vinegar 

Crush  5  pounds  of  raspberries  and  add  10  cupfuls  of  vinegar. 
AUow  to  stand  in  an  earthenware  jar  a  week,  stirring  thoroughly 
every  day.  Then  strain  through  a  muslin  bag  and  add  1  cupful 
of  sugar  to  every  cupful  of  juice.  Boil  this  3  minutes,  cool,  bot- 
tle and  seal. 

Nasturtium  Vinegar 

Cut  the  flowers,  leaves  and  seeds  of  nasturtium  plants  in  small 
pieces  with  kitchen  scissors  and  place  3  cupfuls  of  them  in  a 
quart  fruit  jar.  Cover  with  strong  cider  vinegar  and  let  stand  2 
weeks     Then  add  I/2  ounce  of  ground  cloves  and  14  ounce  of  red 


VINEGAES  195 

pepper.    Let  stand  5  days,  shake  every  day,  then  strain  through 
muslin.    Bottle  and  seal. 


Gooseberry  Vinegar 

Crush  ripe  berries  and  add  three  times  as  much  cold  water  as 
there  are  berries.  Bring  them  to  the  boiling  point,  cool  and  let 
stand  24  hours.  Then  strain  through  muslin  and  to  every  quart 
of  the  liquid  add  21/4  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar.  Stir  well  and  put 
into  a  barrel  or  jar.  Add  i/4  pound  of  honey  and  bung  up  or 
cover  tightly. 

Cucumber  Vinegar 

Wipe  cucumbers  clean  and  slice  them  without  peeling  into 
clean  glass  fruit  jars.  Add  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover.  For  1 
quart  of  vinegar  add  1  clove  of  garlic,  1  teaspoonful  of  white 
pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  After  standing  2  weeks,  drain 
the  vinegar  into  clean  bottles,  straining  it  through  muslio. 

Horseradish  Vinegar 

Grate  II/2  ounces  of  horseradish  and  add  to  it  I/2  ounce  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  V2  ounce  of  minced  shallots.  Pour  2  cup- 
fuls of  vinegar  on  this  and  let  stand  a  week.  Strain  through  a 
fine  cloth  and  bottle  for  use. 

Molasses  Vinegar 

Fill  a  large  jug  or  keg  with  a  mixture  made  by  combining  1 
quart  of  Xew  Orleans  molasses  with  2  cupfuls  of  homemade  yeast 
and  3  gallons  of  rain  water.  Tie  a  cloth  over  the  top  to  keep 
out  the  dust  and  insects.  Place  outdoors  in  the  sun  in  the  sum- 
mer or  let  stand  near  the  stove  in  the  winter.  In  a  month,  or 
sooner,  the  vinegar  will  be  made. 

Quick  Cider  Vinegar 

For  every  gallon  of  cider  add  2  cupfuls  of  N"ew  Orleans  mo- 
lasses and  1  cupful  of  homemade  yeast.  Place  in  a  jug  and 
leave  out  the  cork  to  admit  air.  In  about  a  week  the  vinegar 
will  be  made.    Pour  into  bottles  and  cork  tightly. 


196     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

White  Raisin  Vinegar 

Cut  4  pounds  of  raisins  in  small  pieces  and  add  2  gallons  of 
strained  rain  water.  Place  in  a  jug,  leaving  out  the  cork  and 
stand  it  in  a  warm  place.  In  a  month,  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth and  bottle  for  use. 

Com  Vinegar 

Boil  4  cupfuls  of  corn  in  1  gallon  of  rain  water  until  the  ker- 
nels break.  Then  pour  this  mixture  into  a  stone  jar  and  add 
another  gallon  of  warm  rain  water,  making  certain  that  there 
is  approximately  2  gallons  of  liquid  in  all.  Dissolve  2  cupfuls 
of  sugar  in  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and  pour  this  in  the  jar. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  jar  with  3  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  and  let 
stand  in  a  warm  place,  where  the  temperature  will  be  about  80 
degrees  Fahrenheit.  In  a  month  pour  off  the  vinegar  into  a  jug, 
being  careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  sediment  in  the  jug.  Cover 
the  mouth  of  the  jug  and  store  in  a  warm,  dry  place. 


CHAPTEE  32 

COOKIXG  IX  LARGE  QUANTITIES 

Every  farm  homemaker  is  called  on  to  prepare  meals  for  large 
crews  of  men  or  many  guests  at  some  time  during  the  year.  In 
addition  there  are  community  picnics,  socials  at  the  church  and 
other  gatherings  where  food  is  cooked  in  large  quantities.  It  is 
for  such  occasions  that  the  recipes  in  this  chapter  are  given. 

Spice  Cookies  (10  dozen) 

6  eggs  6  teaspponfuls  salt 
1  cupful  buttermilk                                   2  teaspoonfuls  soda 

4  cupfuls  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

7  cupfuls  flour  1%  cupfuls  melted  lard 

7  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  2  pounds  chopped  and  seeded 

5  teaspoonfuls  cloves  raisins 

Mix  the  fat,  sugar,  salt  and  spices  together.  Beat  until  the 
mixture  is  creamy  and  light.  Then  add  the  eggs  and  beat  again. 
Sift  the  flour,  soda  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  this 
mixture  alternately  with  the  buttermilk.  Stir  in  the  slightly 
floured  raisins,  roll  out  and  cut.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cabbage  Salad  (2  gallons) 

9  pounds  cabbage  1  cupful  sugar 

1  quart  sweet  pickles  V2  ounce  celery  seed 

1^2  pounds  English  walnuts  2  cupfuls  rolled  cracker  crumbs 

18  hard  cooked  eggs  1  small  can  Spanish  peppers 

1  quart  salad  dressing  2  teaspoonfuls  pepper 

%  cupful  whole  mustard  seed  1  small  bunch  celery 

salt  to  taste 

Put  the  ingredients  through  a  food  grinder  after  shelling  the 
nuts.  If  the  salad  dressing  fails  to  make  the  salad  moist  enough, 
add  the  vinegar  from  the  pickles.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Hot  Chocolate  (25  servings) 

1^2  cupfuls  grated  chocolate  3  cupfuls  boiling  water 

%  cupful  sugar  1  gallon  milk 

%  teaspoonful  salt  2i/2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

197 


198     THE  FARM  COOK  A^^D  RULE  BOOK 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  boiling  water  and  boil  until 
the  mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  the  scalded  milk  and 
cook  from  10  to  20  minutes.    Add  vanilla  just  before  serving. 

Coffee 

If  a  large  coffee  pot  is  not  available,  use  an  enamel  kettle 
or  boiler.  In  a  cheesecloth  bag  place  1  pound  of  coffee  for  every 
50  cupfuls  of  coffee  desired,  and  use  8  qnarts  of  rapidly  boiling 
water  for  every  pound  of  coffee.  Drop  the  bag  of  coffee  in  the 
boiling  water  and  use  a  cup  to  pour  the  water  on  the  bag  until  it 
is  thoroughly  soaked.  Then  remove  the  coffee  from  the  fire  and 
stir  the  bag  in  the  hot,  but  not  boiling,  liquid  5  minutes.  Lift 
up  the  bag  and  let  it  drain,  then  remove  it  entirely  and  keep  the 
coffee  hot,  but  do  not  boil.  Serve  as  soon  as  possible  after  being 
made. 

Oyster  Stew 

2  gallons  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  salt 

2  quarts  oysters  1  teaspoonful  white  pepper 

1  cupful  butter 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  oysters,  butter  and  pepper. 
Cook  until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  begin  to  curl.  Add  salt  just 
before  serving.     This  makes  30  servings. 

Potato  Salad 

5  pints  boiled  potatoes  ^  teaspoonful  white  pepper 

2  cupfuls  celery  or  sliced  cucumber       3  cupfuls  salad  dressing 
1  tablespoonful  salt  1  pimento 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  onion 

Dice  the  potatoes,  chop  the  celery,  onion  and  pimento.  Com- 
bine with  the  other  ingredients.    This  makes  15  servings. 

Salad  Dressing 

%  cupful  cornstarch  2  tablespoonfuls  paprika 

%  cupful  sugar  1  teaspoonful  salt 

3  pints  milk  2%  cupfuls  vinegar 
1  tablespoonful  mustard  8  egg  yolks 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  paprika  together 
and  stir  in  the  scalded  milk.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  add  the 
vinegar  to  them.     Stir  this  into  the  thickened  milk  and  cook  5 


COOKING  IN  LARGE  QUANTITIES  199 

minutes,  stirring  constantly.     This  makes  a  little  more  than  2 
quarts  of  salad  dressing. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

1  gallon  potatoes  3  tablespoonfuls  salt 

iy2  quarts  white  sauce  V2  cupful  buttered  crumts 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Grease  a  pan,  cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced  boiled  potatoes^  then 
with  white  sauce  to  which  the  onion  and  salt  have  been  added. 
Add  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  white  sauce.  Cover  with  the 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown.  This  serves  about  20 
persons. 

White  Sauce 

2  quarts  milk  1  tablespoonful  salt 

1  cupful  flour  %  cupful  butter 

Make  a  paste  from  the  flour  and  a  small  portion  of  the  milk. 
Scald  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  add  this  paste  to  it.  When  the 
sauce  is  thickened,  add  the  butter  and  salt.  This  makes  about  2 
quarts. 

Chicken  Salad 

2  quarts  cooked  chicken  1%  quarts  diced  celery 

3  cupfuls  salad  dressing 

Cut  the  chicken  in  dice  and  mix  with  the  celery  and  salad 
dressing.  This  may  be  garnished  with  slices  of  hard  cooked  egg 
and  served  on  lettuce  leaves.    This  makes  25  servings. 


Biscuits 

12  cupfuls  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  salt 

%  cupful  baking  powder  1%  cupfuls  shortening 

1^  quarts  milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  in  the  shortening. 
Add  the  milk  gradually,  mixing  to  a  soft  dough.  The  amount 
of  milk  required  will  vary  somewhat  with  different  flours.  EoU 
the  dough  %  inch  thick  and  cut.  If  small  biscuits  about  2^^ 
inches  in  diameter  are  cut,  this  will  make  90  of  them. 


200  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Ham  Sandwiches 

114  pounds  ham  %  cupful  pickles 

iy2  cupfuls  salad  dressing 

Chop  the  ham  and  pickles  together  and  combine  with  salad 
dressing.  Put  between  slices  of  bread.  This  amount  of  ham 
filling  makes  25  sandwiches. 

Baked  Beans 

2  quarts  beans  1%  teaspoonfuls  mustard 

11/^  tablespoonfuls  soda  1  teaspoonful  paprika 

Yz  cupful  molasses  3  tablespoonfuls  salt 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  pound  bacon 

Soak  the  beans  overnight  in  cold  water.  Add  the  soda  and  boil 
until  almost  tender.  Drain,  add  the  seasonings  and  the  bacon. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  beans  are  tender  and  browned. 
This  serves  about  30  persons. 

Table  of  Quantities 

Sandwiches — Sixteen  sandwich  slices  may  be  cut  from  a  one 
pound  loaf  of  bread. 

Butter — One  pound  will  make  50  sandwiches  or  serve  25  per- 
sons. 

Cake — A  medium-sized  cake  will  serve  20  persons.  , 

Ice  Cream — One  gallon  will  serve  20  persons. 

Oysters — One-half  gallon  of  oysters,  escalloped;,  will  serve  20 
persons.  ^' 

Lemonade — Five  quarts  serve  25  persons. 

Chicken  Salad — One  chicken  weighing  3  pounds  will  serve  20 
persons. 

Whipped  Cream — One-half  pint  will  yield  12  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls. 

Potato  Chips — One  pound  serves  20  persons. 

Chicken  Pie  Dinner — To  serve  250  persons  the  following  in- 
gredients are  required;  50  chickens,  50  pounds  flour,  8  pounds 
butter,  24  dozen  pickles,  3  quarts  lard,  2  bushels  potatoes,  4  gal- 
lons cooked  cranberries  and  10  large  heads  of  cabbage  with  4  gal- 
lons of  salad  dressing  for  slaw. 


CHAPTER  33 

RECIPES  FOR  LITTLE  GIRLS 

When  having  a  tea  party  for  the  dolls  or  when  cooking  for 
the  family,  little  girls  like  to  have  recipes  of  their  own  to  use  in 
preparing  the  food.  The  recipes  in  this  section  have  been  de- 
signed for  this  purpose  and  therefore  produce  smaller  amounts 
than  those  mother  uses.     All  the  measurements  are  level. 


Spice  Cake 

y2   cupful  shortening  1  tablespoonful  hot  water 

1  cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  flour 

1  egg  1  cupful  sour  milk 

1  teaspoonful  soda  1  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter  or  other  shortening,  if  butter  is  not  used, 
with  a  spoon.  Gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating  the  mixture 
with  a  spoon.  When  it  is  light  and  creamy,  add  the  egg  yolk 
which  has  been  beaten  until  it  is  a  light  lemon  color.  Sift  the 
flour  and  spices  together  and  add  them  alternately  with  the 
milk.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Last  of  all, 
stir  in  the  soda  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  hot  water.  Bake 
in  layers  or  as  a  loaf. 

Raisin  Cake 

Use  the  recipe  for  Spice  Cake  only  add  1  cupful  of  chopped 
and  floured  raisins  to  the  batter. 


Nut  Cake 

Use  the  recipe  for  Spice  Cake  only  leave  out  the  spices,  and 
add  \[>  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured  nut  meats  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla. 

201 


202  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Butter  Frosting 

Ys  cupful  butter  1^  cupfuls  powdered  sugar 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  adding  strong  coffee  or 
vanilla  drop  by  drop  until  the  frosting  will  spread  on  the  cake. 


Tea  Cake 

1  cupful  sugar  2  cupfuls  flour 

%  cupful  butter  3%  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1  cupful  sweet  milk  1  small  pinch  soda 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  with  a  spoon  and  beat 
until  light  and  creamy.  Add  the  beaten  egg  yolk.  Sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  a  small  pinch  of  soda  together  and  add  them 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Stir  in  the  vanilla  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Place  in  an  oiled  dripping  pan,  spread 
melted  butter  over  the  top  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon. Bake  in  a  hot  oven  10  minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat  and 
finish  baking.  This  should  be  about  1%  inches  thick  when 
baked. 

Drop  Cookies 

6  tablespoonfuls  shortening  1^4  cupfuls  flour 

%  cupful  sugar  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  egg  %  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  sugar,  beaten  egg,  milk,  salt, 
vanilla  and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Beat 
the  batter  thoroughly,  then  drop  by  spoonfuls  3  inches  apart  in 
oiled  pans  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Nut  Cookies 

Add  %  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured  nut  meats  to  the  batter 
for  Drop  Cookies  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  oiled  pans.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Fruit  Cookies 

Add  l^  cupful  of  chopped  and  floured  raisins,  currants  or 
dates  to  the  Drop  Cooky  batter  and  bake  in  the  same  way. 


KECIPES  FOR  LITTLE  GIRLS  203 

Muffins 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  1  egg 

14  teaspoonful  salt  1  cupful  milk 

2  cupfuls  flour 

Cream  the  butter  with  a  spoon^  add  the  sugar  and  the  well 
beaten  egg.  Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  and  add  to 
the  first  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  buttered 
muffin  tins  25  minutes.  One-half  cupful  of  chopped  dates, 
raisins  or  currants  may  be  added  with  the  flour. 

Smothered  Potatoes 

4  potatoes  ^  teaspoonful  pepper 

1%  cupfuls  sweet  milk  44  small  onion 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

lYo  teaspoonfuls  salt  4  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs 

Cut  pared  potatoes  in  thin  slices.  Arrange  a  layer  of  the 
potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper,  flour  and  chopped  onion  and  dot  with  butter.  Add 
milk  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  the  potatoes  are  tender. 

Rarebit 

Heat  1  cupful  of  milk  and  add  to  it  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 
blended  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  6  tablespoonfuls 
of  cheese  cut  in  bits  and  cook  over  water  until  the  cheese  melts, 
stirring  constantly.    Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Sandwiches 

Cut  thin  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread.  Spread  with  butter 
and  a  paste  made  by  chopping  or  cutting  raisins  in  small  pieces 
and  moistening  them  with  cream. 

Spiced  Prunes 

8  prunes  %  inch  stick  cinnamon 

1  whole  clove  1  tablespoonful  sugar 

Wash  prunes  and  soak  them  overnight  in  cold  water.  Cook 
in  the  water  in  which  they  soaked.    Add  spices,  cover  and  sim- 


204     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

mer  gently  -imtil  they  are  tender.  Then  add  sugar  and  cook  5 
minutes.  Take  out  the  prunes  and  if  the  syrup  is  not  thick,  boil 
it  longer.    Discard  the  pits  and  pour  the  syrup  over  the  prunes. 

Goblin  Salad 

Remove  the  pits  from  cooked  prunes  and  stuff  the  centers  with 
cottage  cheese.  Fasten  the  prunes  together  with  toothpicks  to 
represent  goblins  or  men.  Serve  with  salad  dressing  or  whipped 
cream. 

Fancy  Sandwiches 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  them  evenly.  Use  fancy 
cooky  cutters  to  obtain  pretty  shapes. 

Peach  Snow- 
Wipe  and  remove  the  skin  from  two  large  ripe  peaches. 
Force  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  and  drain  if  there  is  much  juice. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff  and  add  the  peach  pulp  gradually 
while  beating.  Sweeten  with  powdered  sugar.  Chill  and  serve 
with  cream. 

Baked  Rhubarb 

1  cupful  rhubarb  %  cupful  sugar 

Wash  rhubarb,  cut  in  i/o  inch  pieces  without  removing  the 
outer  skin.  Put  into  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cover 
tightly  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  tender. 

Apple  Sauce 

1  large  apple  ^  cupful  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  Few  drops  lemon  juice  or 

3  whole  cloves 

Wipe,  pare,  quarter  and  core  apple.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling 
water  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  lemon  juice  or  cloves.  Place 
the  apple  in  a  pan  and  add  barely  enough  water  to  cover.  Sim- 
mer until  tender.  Cook  the  syrup  until  it  thickens  slightly. 
Then  pour  it  over  the  apple. 


EECIPES  FOE  LITTLE  GIRLS  205 

Fudge 

2  cupfuls  sugar  1  tablespoonful  butter 
1  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
1  square  chocolate                                     1  cupful  nut  meats 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  kettle  and  add  the  finely  cut  chocolate 
to  it.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  the  chocolate  is  melted. 
Add  the  sugar  and  cook  while  the  chocolate  is  being  mixed  into 
the  sugar.  Then  add  the  milk  and  cook  until  the  mixture  reaches 
the  soft  ball  stage.  Cool.  AMien  lukewarm,  beat  until  the  mix- 
ture is  creamy  and  begins  to  harden.  Pour  into  pans  and  cut 
in  squares. 

Maple  Divinity 

3  cupfuls  sugar  1  cupful  boiling  water 
1  cupful  maple  syrup                              3  egg  whites 

Put  sugar,  syrup  and  water  in  kettle.  Cook  without  stirring 
until  it  forms  a  firm  soft  ball  when  a  small  portion  is  tried  in 
cold  water.  Beat  whites  of  egg  in  a  gallon  crock.  When  the 
syrup  is  cooked  so  that  it  forms  the  firm  soft  ball^  almost  a  hard 
ball,  in  cold  water,  pour  it  over  the  egg  whites,  beating  vigor- 
ously with  a  stiff  spoon.  Continue  beating  until  the  candy  is 
stiff  and  fine-grained.    Spread  and  cut  in  squares. 


CHAPTER  34 

QUICK  MEALS 

On  wash  day,  when  returning  home  from  a  trip  to  town  or 
whenever  time  is  limited,  it  is  helpful  to  have  in  mind  pattern 
meals  which  can  be  prepared  in  30  or  60  minutes,  depending  on 
the  time  available.  The  following  menus  for  30-minute  and  60- 
minute  meals  can  be  made  ready  in  the  allotted  time,  provided 
the  fire  is  built  or  a  kerosene  stove  is  used.  Eecipes  for  making 
the  dishes  used  are  found  in  this  book. 


30-Minute  Meals 

Pan  Broiled  Ham  Creamed  Potatoes 

Apple  and  Cabbage  Salad 
Bread  Butter  Fruit  Preserves 

Raisin  Custard 
Milk  Coffee 

The  potatoes  are  pared,  cut  in  small  cubes  and  set  on  the  stove 
to  cook  in  salted  water.  Then  the  custard  is  made  and  set  in 
the  oven.  The  cabbage  and  apples  are  prepared  and  combined 
with  the  salad  dressing  which  has  been  made  previously.  Then 
the  ham  is  placed  in  the  frying  pan  to  cook.  While  these  foods 
are  cooking,  the  table  is  set,  the  salad,  bread,  butter,  preserves 
and  milk  are  placed  on  the  table.  When  this  is  accomplished^ 
the  potatoes  are  drained  and  seasoned  with  milk  which  is  thick- 
ened with  flour  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  The 
ham  which  has  been  turned  occasionally  is  now  ready.  The 
custard  will  be  baked  by  the  time  the  dessert  is  needed.  If 
cookies  are  available,  they  may  be  served  with  it.  When  coffee 
is  desired,  it  is  set  on  the  stove  to  cook  just  before  the  potatoes 
are  drained. 

206 


QUICK  MEALS  207 

Creamed  Salmon  on  Toast 
Buttered  Peas  Oven  Fried  Potatoes 

Bread  Butter  Jelly 

Stuffed  Canned  Pears 
Coffee  Milk 

Place  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  to  cook^  then  make  the  white 
sauce  for  creamed  dishes  and  add  the  flaked  salmon  to  it.  Open 
the  can  of  peas  and  place  them  with  the  seasonings  in  a  kettle  to 
heat.  Put  the  coffee  on  to  cook.  Open  the  can  of  pears,  place 
them  in  serving  dishes  and  fill  the  cavities  in  them  with  thick 
jam  and  shredded  cocoanut.  Cut  the  bread  and  butter  and  set 
the  table.  By  the  time  the  toast  is  made  for  the  salmon,  the  rest 
of  the  meal  will  be  ready. 

Pork  Chops 

Boiled  Potatoes  Buttered  Spinach 

Cornbread  Butter  Horseradish 

Sliced  Peaches  with  Cookies 

Coffee  or  Tea  Milk 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  place  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Stir  up  the 
cornbread  and  place  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Then  put  the  pork 
chops  on  to  cook.  Open  the  can  of  spinach  and  place  it  in  a 
kettle  with  seasonings  to  heat.  Set  the  table  and  place  the  milk, 
horseradish,  butter  and  canned  peaches  and  cookies  on  it.  If 
coffee  is  to  be  served,  prepare  it.  After  draining  the  potatoes, 
season  them  with  salt,  butter  and  pepper. 

Badger  Squaw  Dish 
Buttered  Asparagus  Pickled  Beets 

Dropped  Biscuits 
Butter  Jam 

Pineapple  and  Marshmallow  Dessert 

Prepare  the  Squaw  Dish  first,  then  make  the  biscuits,  placing 
them  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Put  the  canned  asparagus  on  the  stove 
to  heat  with  the  butter  and  seasonings.  Set  the  table  and 
arrange  the  dessert,  which  consists  of  chopped  canned  pineapple 
and  marshmallows  cut  in  bits,  on  the  table.  If  milk  is  wished, 
pour  it  or  place  the  glasses  and  pitcher  on  the  table.  By  this 
time  the  food  will  be  cooked  and  ready  for  serving. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Peas 

Pickles  Muffins  Jelly  Butter 

Apple  Betty  with  Cream 

Stir  up  the  muffins  and  place  them  in  the  oven  to  bake ;  then 
prepare  the  Apple  Betty  and  set  it  in  the  oven.    Next  scramble 


308     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

the  eggs  and  bacon  and  set  the  table.  If  coffee  is  used,  place  it 
on  the  stove  to  cook.  Let  the  Apple  Betty  bake  until  it  is  almost 
time  to  serve  it. 

One-Hour  Meals 

Baked  Potatoes  Breaded  Pork  Chops 

Cabbage  Slaw 
Bread  Butter  Jam 

Date  Pudding  with  Cream 
CofiEee  Milk 

Select  mediumly  small  potatoes  and  place  them  in  the  oven 
to  bake.  Brown  the  pork  chops,  after  dipping  them  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  then  pour  a  little  water  in  the  frying  pan,  cover 
tightly  and  set  in  the  oven  to  finish  cooking.  Prepare  the  date 
pudding  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Make  the  cabbage  slaw, 
set  the  table  and  put  the  coffee  on  to  cook.  Leave  the  pudding 
in  the  oven  until  time  to  serve  it,  unless  it  is  baked  before  this 
time. 

Fried  Ham 
Scalloped  Potatoes  String  Beans  Vingrette 

Bread  Butter  Jelly  Chili  Sauce 

Peach  Shortcake 

Place  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  to  bake,  put  the  ham  on  to  fry 
and  then  prepare  the  dough  for  the  shortcake,  setting  it  in  a  cool 
place.  Then  prepare  the  beans  and  the  sauce  for  the  shortcake 
and  set  the  table.  Just  before  sitting  down  to  the  table,  place 
the  shortcake  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

Creamed  Ham  with  Potatoes 

Pickled  Beets  Buttered  Spinach  Bread  Butter 

Chocolate  Pie 

Coffee  Milk 

Set  the  ham  and  potatoes  in  the  oven  to  bake,  make  the  pie 
crust  and  then  the  filling.  Set  the  table,  prepare  the  spinach 
and  then  brown  the  meringue  of  the  pie  in  the  oven.  Set  the 
coffee  on  the  stove  to  cook. 

Beef  Steak 
Fried  Potatoes  Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Bread  Butter  Jam 

Apples  en  Casserole 
Coffee  Milk 

Prepare  tomatoes  and  place  in  the  oven,  then  prepare  the 
apples  and  place  them  in  the  oven  to  bake.     Set  the  table,  then 


QUICK  MEALS  209 

fry  the  potatoes,  put  the  coffee  on  to  cook  and  fry  or  broil  the 
steak. 

Rarebit  on  Toast 

Baked  Potatoes      Olives  or  Pickles      Pineapple  Salad 

Berry  Dumplings  with  Cream 

Give  potatoes  first  attention,  then  prepare  the  salad  and  set 
the  table.  Then  make  dumplings  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to 
bake.    A^Tiile  they  are  baking,  prepare  the  rarebit  and  toast. 


CHAPTER  35 
BUTCHERING 

Meat  should  be  cooled  at  least  24  hours  after  butchering 
before  it  is  cured.  It  should  not  be  frozen  when  placed  in  the 
brine,  for  if  it  is,  the  brine  will  not  be  able  to  penetrate  it  evenly. 
As  a  result,  the  meat  will  not  have  a  uniform  flavor  throughout. 

Any  clean  and  tight  hardwood  barrel  may  be  used  to  hold  the 
brine,  but  a  thoroughly  washed  and  scalded  molasses  barrel  is 
preferable.  In  case  a  vinegar  barrel  is  used,  it  must  be  burned 
out  on  the  inside  as  well  as  scalded  and  washed.  If  the  barrel 
has  any  trace  of  bad  odor  after  this  treatment,  a  small  lump  of 
quicklime  may  be  placed  in  a  dish  and  set  in  it  and  a  gallon 
of  boiling  water  poured  over  it.  The  barrel  is  then  covered 
while  the  fumes  of  the  slacking  lime  sweeten  it.  After  this^  the 
barrel  is  washed  and  rinsed  again. 

Salt,  molasses  or  sugar  and  saltpeter  are  the  preservatives 
commonly  used  in  curing  meat.  Salt  has  an  astringent  action, 
that  is,  it  draws  the  moisture  from  the  meat  and  hardens  the 
muscles  somewhat.  Sugar  and  molasses  have  the  opposite  effect 
and  are  therefore  used  with  salt.  They  help  keep  the  muscles 
tender  and  the  meat  from  becoming  too  dry.  Saltpeter  is  used 
to  retain  the  natural  color  of  the  meat  and  is  always  added  in 
small  quantities. 

Sugar  Cured  Pork 

Sprinkle  a  layer  of  salt  on  top  of  a  clean  table  and  pile  the 
bacons,  tongues  and  hams  on  this,  sprinkling  every  piece  with 
salt.  This  table  should  be  in  a  cool  and  dry  room.  After  the 
meat  has  stood  for  10  days,  the  pieces  are  washed  off  with  luke- 
warm water. 

Make  a  pickle  by  dissolving  2I/2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  2 
ounces  of  saltpeter  and  from  8  to  10  pounds  of  salt  in  4  gallons 

210 


BUTCHERING  211 

of  warm  water.  This  amount  of  pickle  is  sufficient  for  100 
pounds  of  meat.  Pack  the  meat  in  the  barrel,  after  trimming 
off  all  the  rough  and  hanging  pieces,  placing  the  heaviest  hams 
and  shoulders  in  the  bottom  and  the  bacons  and  tongues  on  top. 
Pour  the  cool  brine  over  the  meat,  weight  it  down  with  a  heavy 
block  of  wood,  making  certain  that  it  is  kept  submerged  all  the 
time.  Leave  the  bacons  and  tongues  in  this  pickle  from  4  to  5 
weeks,  the  lighter  hams  about  6  weeks  and  the  heavy  hams  from 
6  to  8  weeks.  Wash  the  meat  in  lukewarm  water  when  it  is  taken 
from  the  brine  to  remove  the  scum  and  crust  which  may  have 
formed  on  it.  Dry  2  hours,  hang  in  the  smokehouse,  let  stand 
overnight  and  the  next  day  smoke. 

If  at  any  time  during  the  curing  the  brine  does  not  cover 
the  meat,  more  water  should  be  added.  In  case  it  shows  any 
sign  of  fermentation,  it  should  be  drained  off,  boiled,  cooled  and 
then  poured  back  over  the  meat.  If  the  brine  becomes  ropy,  the 
barrel  should  be  washed  out  with  scalding  water  while  new  brine 
is  being  made. 

Dry  Cured  Pork 

Weigh  out  2%  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  6  pounds  of  salt, 
2  ounces  of  saltpeter  and  4  ounces  of  black  pepper.  This  is 
sufficient  for  curing  100  pounds  of  meat.  Divide  the  sugar,  salt 
and  saltpeter  mixture  into  equal  parts,  rub  one  portion  over  the 
cooled  meat  and  pack  it  in  a  barrel.  At  the  end  of  three  days, 
take  the  meat  from  the  barrel,  rub  with  a  second  portion  of  the 
salt,  sugar  and  saltpeter  mixture,  and  repack.  After  standing  3 
more  days,  the  meat  is  removed  from  the  barrel  and  rubbed  with 
the  last  portion  of  the  mixture  and  then  it  is  repacked.  Let 
stand  in  the  brine  formed  2  weeks.  Then  take  from  the  barrel, 
wash  off  with  lukewarm  water,  dry  1  hour  and  smoke. 

Pickled  Salt  Pork 

Mix  together  2  ounces  of  saltpeter,  8  to  10  pounds  of  salt  and 
4  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Cool  and  pour  over  the  meat  which 
has  been  packed  in  a  clean  barrel.  This  is  sufficient  pickle  for 
100  pounds  of  meat.  Weight  the  meat  down  with  a  heavy  block 
and  keep  every  piece  submerged  all  the  time.     Although  fat 


212     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

pieces  of  backs  are  usually  cured  in  this  way,  any  piece  of  meat 
may  be,  provided  it  is  cut  in  narrow  strips  or  6  inch  squares. 
The  meat  is  left  in  the  brine  and  is  taken  out  as  needed. 

Virginia  Ciired  Hams 

Place  the  hams  on  a  table  covered  with  salt  and  sprinkle  them 
with  saltpeter  until  quite  frosty.  Use  about  5  ounces  of  salt- 
peter for  100  pounds  of  meat.  Salt  and  pile  for  3  days,  then 
salt  again  and  leave  in  salt  a  day  for  every  pound  of  meat. 
Wash  with  warm  water,  partially  dry  and  rub  the  entire  surface 
with  finely  ground  black  pepper.  Smoke  for  30  or  40  days, 
watching  the  color  so  as  to  get  a  uniform  tobacco  brown  color. 
Hickory  wood  is  best  for  smoking.  Re-pepper  the  hams  after 
they  are  smoked. 

Pickled  Pigs'  Feet 

Soak  the  feet  from  which  the  toes  have  been  removed  over- 
night in  cold  water.  Cover  with  fresh  water  in  the  morning  and 
boil  slowly  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Salt  is  added  for  sea- 
soning during  the  cooking.  Remove  the  pigs'  feet  from  the  ket- 
tle, split  them  and  pack  in  a  stone  jar.  Pour  on  sufficient  hot 
vinegar  to  cover.  Spices  may  be  added  if  one  wishes.  To  1 
quart  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves,  the  same 
amount  of  peppercorns  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  are  good 
amounts  to  use. 

Pork  Sausage 

For  every  3  pounds  of  fresh  lean  pork  allow  1  pound  of  fat. 
Grind  the  meat  and  fat  in  a  food  grinder.  Weigh  the  meat 
and  spread  it  out  in  a  thin  layer  on  a  flat  surface  and  sprinkle 
with  the  seasonings.  For  every  5  pounds  of  ground  meat,  use 
1%  to  2  ounces  of  salt,  I/2  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  %  ounce 
of  ground  sage.  Mix  the  seasonings  and  meat  together  and  put 
through  the  grinder  again. 

Sausage  Casings 

Carefully  cleaned  intestines  of  sheep,  hogs  and  cattle  are  used 
for  casings.    As  a  rule  pork  casings  are  used  for  pork  sausage, 


BUTCHERING  213 

beef  rounds  from  the  small  intestines  are  used  for  bologna  and 
beef  bungs  from  the  large  intestine  are  used  for  large  bologna 
and  for  ham  sausage.  These  casings  may  be  purchased  if  one 
does  not  wish  to  prepare  them.  They  are  cleaned  by  being 
emptied  and  washed  thoroughly  inside  and  out.  Then  they  are 
soaked  in  a  solution  of  lye  or  in  water  to  which  wood  ashes  have 
been  added.  They  are  scraped  inside  and  out  until  the  slime  and 
gat  are  removed.  Then  they  are  washed  again  and  packed  in 
salt  until  needed. 

Narrow  muslin  bags  20  inches  long  and  3  inches  wide  may  be 
used  in  place  of  the  casings.  Melted  lard  is  rubbed  over  the 
outer  surface  of  the  bags  to  seal  the  surface. 

Bologna  Sausage 

To  8  pounds  of  lean  beef  use  1  pound  of  fat  pork.  Put  the 
meat  through  a  food  grinder,  spread  it  out  on  a  flat  surface  and 
sprinkle  with  the  seasonings.  For  every  9  pounds  of  meat  allow 
2l^  ounces  of  fine  salt,  %  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  14  ounce 
of  ground  mace  or  coriander.  Mix  the  seasonings  with  the  meat 
and  regrind.  Stuff  into  casings,  dry  1  hour  and  smoke  8  or  10 
hours.    Dry  before  putting  away. 

Liver  Sausage 

Add  5  pounds  of  well  cooked  pork  or  beef  liver  and  1  pound 
of  flour  to  8  pounds  of  well  cooked  pork  from  boned  hogs'  heads 
or  jowls.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  mix  thoroughly  with 
flour  and  put  through  a  food  grinder.  Spread  out  and  sprinkle 
with  6  ounces  of  fine  salt,  2  ounces  of  finely  ground  black  pepper 
and  1  ounce  of  finely  ground  sage.  Eegrind,  adding  1  onion  if 
the  onion  flavor  is  desired.  Stuff  the  meat  into  round  casings 
or  hog  bungs  and  cook  in  boiling  water  10  minutes.  Cool  in  ice, 
or  very  cool,  water  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

Headcheese 

Skin  the  hogs'  heads,  remove  the  brains  and  eyes  and  split 
the  heads  down  the  center  of  the  foreheads  and  noses.  Put  the 
pieces  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  boil  gently  until  the 


214     THE  FAEM  COOK  AXD  EULE  BOOK 

meat  comes  off  the  bone  easily.  Then  remove  the  meat,  chop  it 
finely,  return  it  to  the  kettle  and  add  a  part  of  the  liquor  in 
which  it  was  cooked,  and  boil  15  minutes.  While  this  is  cook- 
ing, season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  12  pounds  of  meat 
add  14  pound  of  salt,  %  pound  of  pepper  and  if  desired,  a  trace 
of  allspice  and  cloves.  Put  the  cooked  meat  and  the  liquid  that 
remains  in  stoneware  jars  or  crocks,  place  a  weight  on  top  and 
cool.    When  firm,  it  is  ready  to  be  sliced  and  used. 

Lard 

Eender  the  leaf  fat,  the  fat  from  the  sides,  trimmings  from 
hams,  shoulders  and  neck  and  that  from  the  guts  separately. 
The  same  process  is  used  in  rendering  the  three  kinds  of  fat  and 
if  one  wishes,  the  leaf  fat  and  that  from  the  sides,  hams,  shoul- 
ders and  neck  may  be  rendered  together. 

Either  run  the  fat  through  a  food  chopper  or  cut  it  into  1^2 
inch  cubes.  Cook  over  a  very  slow  fire,  never  letting  the  mixture 
reach  the  boiling  point  of  water.  Stir  frequently  with  a  wooden 
stick.  When  the  cracklings  are  light  brown  in  color  and  float  on 
top,  remove  them  and  drain.  Save  the  cracklings  to  make  crack- 
ling bread,  to  feed  the  chickens  or  for  soap  making.  Stir  the 
lard  as  it  cools.  When  cool  enough,  strain  through  muslin 
cloths  into  jars  or  cans  and  cover. 

Corned  Beef 

Cut  wholesome,  fresh  beef  in  pieces  about  6  inches  square  and 
place  a  i/4  inch  layer  of  salt,  then  a  6  inch  layer  of  meat  in  an 
earthenware  jar  or  a  wooden  barrel.  Eepeat  this  process  until 
all  the  meat  is  used.  Be  sure  to  have  a  good  layer  of  salt  on 
top.  Weigh  the  meat  before  cutting  it  and  allow  8  pounds  of 
salt  to  100  pounds  of  meat.  Let  the  beef  stand  overnight  in  the 
salt. 

The  next  morning  make  a  brine  by  dissolving  3  ounces  of  salt- 
peter, 21/2  ounces  of  baking  soda  and  5  pounds  of  sugar  in  4 
gallons  of  boiling  water.  Pour  through  muslin  and  cool.  When 
thoroughly  cooled,  pour  the  brine  over  the  meat  and  salt  and  if 
the  meat  is  not  covered,  add  sufficient  cold  water  that  the  meat 


BUTCHERING  215 

will  be  submerged.  Weight  it  down  with  a  heavy  block  of  wood. 
After  5  days,  overhaul  the  meat  and  repack,  putting  the  pieces 
previously  on  top  in  the  bottom. 

At  any  time,  especially  in  the  warm  weather,  that  the  brine 
shows  signs  of  fermentation  or  becomes  ropy,  it  should  be  drained 
off,  boiled,  strained  through  a  clean  cloth,  cooled  and  poured 
back  on  the  meat.  Scald  the  barrel  or  jar  and  wash  the  meat 
before  the  brine  is  poured  back.  Keep  the  meat  in  a  cool,  dark 
place.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  after  standing  in  the  brine  one 
month.  If  kept  2  months,  soaking  the  meat  before  cooking  it 
will  be  necessary  to  remove  some  of  the  salt.  The  parts  of  the 
beef  usually  selected  for  this  purpose  are  plate,  rump,  cross  ribs 
and  brisket.  Best  results  are  obtained  by  removing  the  bone  be- 
fore putting  the  meat  in  the  brine. 

Dried  Beef 

Use  the  round  for  this  purpose.  To  50  pounds  of  cooled 
meat,  weigh  out  3  pounds  of  salt,  II/2  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
and  1  ounce  of  saltpeter.  Mix  these  ingredients  and  divide  into 
three  portions.  Rub  one  portion  on  the  meat  and  place  it  in  an 
earthenware  jar.  Let  stand  3  days,  then  take  the  meat  from 
the  jar  J  but  leave  the  syrup  formed  during  the  curing  in  it,  rub 
the  second  portion  of  the  mixture  on  the  meat,  return  it  to  the 
jar  and  let  stand  3  more  days.  Then  take  out  the  meat  and 
rub  the  third  portion  on  it  and  put  back  in  the  jar  with  the 
syrup.  After  standing  3  days,  hang  it  up  in  the  smokehouse. 
Smoke  until  dry  and  then  keep  in  a  dry  place. 


Vienna  Sausage 

Grind  very  fine  4  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  2  pounds  of  fat 
pork.  Sprinkle  with  1%  ounces  of  salt,  I/2  ounce  of  black  pepper 
and  ^  ounce  of  sage.  Regrind  until  very  fine.  Stuff  in  cleaned 
casings  of  any  desired  size.  Smoke  until  they  take  on  a  rich 
orange  color,  then  cook  in  hot,  but  not  boiling,  water  from  10 
to  15  minutes,  depending  on  the  size  of  the  sausages.  The  use 
of  too  hot  water  or  too  much  fire  in  the  smokehouse  will  cause 
the  sausages  to  split  and  be  wasted. 


216     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Smoking  Meat 

After  meat  has  been  in  the  brine  or  pickle  long  enough,  it 
is  removed,  soaked  in  lukewarm  water  20  minutes  and  then 
washed  in  fresh  lukewarm  water.  The  pieces  are  then  strung 
with  heavy  twine  and  hung  in  the  smokehouse  so  that  no  two 
pieces  touch.  Allow  to  dry  24  hours.  Then  smoke,  beginning 
with  a  very  low  fire.  The  fire  should  make  as  little  heat  and  as 
much  smoke  as  possible.  Too  hot  a  fire  dries  the  outside  of  the 
meat  and  prevents  the  smoke  from  penetrating  it. 

Any  hard  wood  may  be  used  for  smoking  meat,  although 
hickory  smothered  in  sawdust  is  a  favorite.  Maple  is  also  satis- 
factory and  when  wood  cannot  be  obtained,  corncobs  are  an 
excellent  substitute. 

Length  of  Time  to  Smoke 

Meat  is  smoked  until  it  is  of  an  even  light  or  medium  brown 
color.  The  shortest  time  meat  is  smoked  is  2  days,  but  the 
flavor  is  usually  much  better  if  smoked  slowly  a  much  longer 
time.  If  meat  is  frozen,  it  should  be  thawed  out  before  being 
smoked.  In  warm  weather  the  fire  should  be  allowed  to  die  out 
every  other  day  until  the  meat  is  smoked.  This  keeps  the  tem- 
perature from  becoming  too  high. 

When  the  meat  is  of  the  right  color,  the  door  and  ventilators 
of  the  smokehouse  are  opened.  The  meat  is  left  hanging  until 
it  is  cool.  It  is  then  wrapped  in  heavy  newspapers  and  sewed 
up  in  stout  muslin  bags. 

Wash  for  Keeping  Meat 

The  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  gives  the  fol- 
lowing recipe  for  a  wash  to  be  applied  to  the  muslin  bags  hold- 
ing the  smoked  and  cured  meat.  For  110  pounds  of  meat  use 
3  pounds  of  baryates,  0.06  pound  of  glue,  0.08  pound  chrome 
yellow,  which  is  a  poison,  and  0.40  pound  flour.  Half  fill  a  pail 
with  water  and  mix  in  the  flour,  dissolving  all  the  lumps.  Dis- 
solve the  chrome  in  a  quart  of  water  and  add  it  and  the  glue  to 
the  flour  mixture.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the 
baryates  slowly,  stirring  constantly.     Make  this  wash  the  day 


BUTCHERING  217 

before  it  is  needed.     Stir  frequently  while  applying  it  with  a 
brush  to  the  outer  surface  of  the  muslin  bags  around  the  meat. 

Grandma's  Mince  Meat 

8  pounds  meat  4  tablespoonfuls  allspice 

6  pounds  currants  4  pounds  suet 

6  pounds  raisins  2  pounds  citron 

12  pounds  sugar  20  pounds  raw  apples 

12  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon  '2  gallons  cider 

8  tablespoonfuls  mace  4  tablespoonfuls  salt 
4  tablespoonfuls  grated  nutmeg 

Use  either  boiled  beef  or  pork  for  this  purpose  and  put 
through  the  food  grinder  with  the  currants,  seedless  raisins, 
citron  and  apples.  Add  the  spices  and  sugar.  Bring  the  cider 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Boil  1  hour, 
stirring  frequently.  Can  while  hot  in  air  tight  and  sterilized 
glass  fruit  jars.  These  jars  may  be  sterilized  by  boiling  in  water 
15  minutes. 


PART  II 


CHAPTER  1 
HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES 

Toilet  Soap 

Place  10  pounds  of  double  refined  98  per  cent  caustic  soda 
powder  in  an  earthenware  jar  or  in  a  can  with  4%  gallons  of 
water.  Stir  a  few  times  with  a  stick.  The  powder  will  dissolve 
immediately  and  become  hot.  Let  it  stand  until  the  lye  thus 
made  is  cool. 

Weigh  out  and  place  in  any  utensil  convenient  for  mixing  75 
pounds  of  linseed  oil,  cottonseed  oil  or  any  vegetable  oil,  clean 
grease  or  tallow.  If  grease  is  used  it  must  be  melted  slowly 
until  it  is  liquid  and  just  barely  warm,  not  hot.  When  oil  is 
used,  it  is  not  heated  at  all. 

Pour  the  lye  into  the  oil  slowly,  stirring  with  a  wooden  stick, 
and  continue  to  stir  gently  until  the  oil  and  lye  are  combined 
thoroughly  and  have  the  appearance  of  honey.  Do  not  stir  the 
mixture  longer  or  it  will  separate.  The  time  of  stirring  varies 
with  the  temperature  and  the  atmospheric  conditions  but  ordi- 
narily from  15  to  20  minutes  is  long  enough. 

Dampen  the  sides  of  pans  or  boxes  with  cold  water  and  pour 
the  soap  into  them.  Allow  this  to  stand  in  a  warm  room  for  24 
hours.    Then  cut  in  squares. 

The  addition  of  a  few  drops  of  oil  or  mirbane,  artificial  al- 
mond oil,  just  after  the  oil  and  lye  are  mixed  provides  perfume. 
Other  pleasing  odors  are  supplied  by  a  few  drops  of  real  almond 
oil,  citronella  or  oil  of  cloves.  The  precautions  to  heed  in  mak- 
ing this  soap  are :  allow  the  lye  to  cool  before  using  it,  use  exact 
weights  of  double  refined  98  per  cent  caustic  soda  and  grease  or 
oil  and  stir  the  lye  into  the  grease,  not  the  grease  into  the  lye. 

Destroying  Weavils  in  Beans 
Place  the  beans  in  a  box  with  a  tightly  fitting  lid  or  in  an  old 
trunk  if  one  is  available.    Pour  carbon  bisulphide  in  a  saucer  and 

221 


222     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

set  this  on  top  of  the  beans.  Close  the  lid  of  the  box  or  trunk 
and  do  not  open  for  24  hours.  Since  carbon  bisulphide  is  explo- 
sive, care  must  be  taken  not  to  use  it  near  a  fire. 

Re-silvering  Mirrors 

Spread  a  sheet  of  tin-foil  corresponding  to  the  size  of  the  plate 
of  glass  evenly  on  a  smooth  and  solid  table,  and  carefully  rub 
down  every  wrinkle  on  its  surface  with  a  brush.  Pour  a  por- 
tion of  mercury  and  rub  it  over  the  tin-foil  with  a  piece  of  very 
soft  woolen  cloth.  Apply  rulers  to  the  edges;  then  pour  mer- 
cury on  to  the  depth  of  a  dime.  Carefully  remove  any  oxide 
on  the  surface,  remove  the  old  coating  from  the  glass  and  be  sure 
it  is  clean  and  dry.  Then  slide  the  glass  over  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  metal  so  no  air,  dirt  or  oxide  can  possibly  remain  or  get 
between  them. 

When  the  glass  has  reached  the  proper  position,  apply  gentle 
pressure  and  slope  the  table  a  little  to  carry  off  the  waste  mer- 
cury. Cover  the  glass  with  a  flannel  cloth  and  load  it  with  heavy 
weights.  After  24  hours  slant  the  glass  a  little.  Keep  slanting 
it  a  little  more  every  day  until  at  the  end  of  a  month  it  becomes 
perpendicular.    It  is  then  ready  to  be  used. 

Fly  Killer 

An  inexpensive  and  effective  fly  killer  which  can  be  used  on 
the  farm  without  danger  to  the  children  and  livestock  is  made 
by  mixing  I/2  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  formaldehyde  and 
1%  cupfuls  of  water  together.  This  is  poured  into  shallow  pans 
and  is  especially  effective  if  set  in  places  where  water  is  scarce. 

Cleaning  Silverware 

Place  the  tarnished  silver  in  an  old  aluminum  pan  or  kettle 
which  contains  boiling  water.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda 
and  an  equal  amount  of  salt  to  every  quart  of  water  used.  The 
silver  should  be  covered  by  this  solution.  As  the  water  boils  the 
tarnish  is  dissolved. 

Paste  for  Wall  Paper 

Mix  1  quart  of  flour  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff 
paste  or  batter  and  then  add  1%  gallons  of  boiling  water.    Stir 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES  223 

the  mixture  until  the  flour  is  cooked.  When  this  has  stood  a 
few  hours,  but  not  overnight,  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  the  paper 
is  being  hung  on  walls  which  have  been  painted,  the  paste  is 
thinned  with  ^  cupful  of  molasses.  When  very  heavy  paper 
is  being  hung,  the  addition  of  2  teaspoonfuls  of  Venetian  tur- 
pentine will  help  make  it  stick. 

Re-sizing  Rugs 

To  re-size  rugs  which  have  become  flimsy,  dissolve  1  quart  of 
powdered  dry  glue  in  1  gallon  of  boiling  water.  Keep  this  on 
the  stove  until  the  glue  is  dissolved.  Tack  the  rug  wrong-side 
down  on  the  floor,  spreading  old  newspapers  around  the  edges  to 
protect  the  floor.  Use  a  brush  to  apply  the  glue  solution,  taking 
care  to  cover  every  inch  of  space.  Cover  the  edges  of  the  rug 
with  the  solution.  Do  not  move  the  rug  for  24  hours  or  until 
the  sizing  is  dry. 

Laying  Linoleum 

Spread  a  layer  of  heavy  paper,  frequently  called  builder's 
felt,  or  some  other  heavy  paper  on  the  floor.  Using  a  brush, 
paste  this  to  the  floor  with  linoleum  paste.  This  lining  should 
fit  closely  to  the  baseboard,  and  if  there  is  a  molding,  it  should 
be  removed. 

Next  the  strips  of  linoleum  are  laid  on  the  floor;  they  are 
matched  at  the  seams  and  cut  to  fit  the  room.  Then  by  rolling 
one  strip  back  half-way  paste  is  applied  to  the  underside  to 
within  three  inches  of  the  edges.  Linoleum  cement  is  then 
spread  on  the  edges.  The  purpose  of  the  linoleum  paste  and 
cement  is  to  fasten  the  fioor  covering  firmly  to  the  floor  so 
water  cannot  get  underneath  to  rot  the  fiber.  The  paper  lining 
keeps  the  expansion  and  contraction  of  the  wood,  due  to  atmos- 
pheric conditions,  from  causing  the  linoleum  to  bulge  or  crack. 

Weights  are  needed  until  the  cement  and  paste  are  dry.  A 
good  way  to  secure  the  necessary  weight  is  to  fill  a  wooden  box 
with  bricks,  fasten  a  rope  to  it  for  a  handle  and  then  pull  this 
back  and  forth  over  the  surface,  particularly  up  and  down  the 
seams.  A  board  weighted  down  can  be  laid  over  the  seams  for 
24  hours  to  hold  the  cement  firm.    Then  the  molding  is  replaced. 


224     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

In  cold  weather  the  rolls  of  linoleum  should  be  left  in  a  warm 
room  at  least  48  hours  before  being  laid. 

Putting  Down  Butter 

Before  the  grass  is  gone  in  the  fall  and  while  cream  is  plenti- 
ful, butter  may  be  put  down  for  winter  use.  Work  the  butter 
as  for  immediate  use,  making  certain  that  all  the  buttermilk  is 
removed.  Pack  the  butter  in  earthenware  jars  to  within  5  inches 
of  the  top.  Make  a  brine  from  coarse  salt  and  water  strong 
enough  that  an  egg  will  float  in  it.  Strain  through  fine  cloth 
and  pour  over  the  butter,  filling  the  Jar.  Cover  the  jar  tightly 
and  set  in  a  cave  or  cellar.  This  butter  will  keep  through  the 
winter. 

Keeping  Cake  Fresh 

If  several  layers  of  cake  are  baked  at  one  time  and  placed 
in  a  tightly  covered  earthenware  jar,  they  will  stay  fresh  many 
days.  Just  before  using  two  or  three  of  the  layers,  cover  them 
with  a  cooked  icing,  the  warmth  of  which  steams  and  freshens 
the  cake.  By  using  different  kinds  of  icings,  the  taste  of  the 
different  cakes  made  from  the  same  batter  will  be  varied.  Or 
the  batter  may  be  divided  before  being  baked  and  the  different 
layers  flavored  with  a  variety  of  extracts.  Having  this  cake  on 
hand  when  guests  or  crews  of  men  come  is  very  helpful. 

Keeping  Cider  Sweet 

The  fermentation  of  cider  may  be  retarded  greatly  by  the  ad- 
dition of  sodium  benzoate,  but  it  is  doubtful  if  the  addition  of 
this  substance  or  any  chemical  preservative  at  all  permissible 
for  this  purpose  will  prevent  fermentation  under  all  conditions. 
Apple  juice  treated  with  0.1  to  0.2  per  cent  sodium  benzoate 
will,  however,  probably  not  undergo  any  fermentation  within  a 
considerable  period  of  time  if  it  is  kept  cool  during  storage. 
Benzoate  of  soda  in  amount  not  to  exceed  one-tenth  of  one  per 
cent  is  permitted  by  the  Pure  Food  and  Drug's  Act  in  juices  to 
be  sold,  but  its  presence  in  the  material  must  be  indicated  on  the 
label. 


HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES  225 

Making  Hominy 

Dissolve  4  tablespoonfuls  of  lye  in  1  gallon  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  the  corn  rapidly  in  this  solution  30  minutes.  Then  drain 
and  wash  the  kernels  thoroughly  several  times  in  cold  water  to 
remove  the  lye.  Eub  with  the  hands  until  the  husks,  or  cover- 
ing of  the  kernels,  are  removed.  Then  place  the  corn  in  an 
enamel  kettle  and  boil  in  a  little  water  until  tender.  Wash 
again,  pack  in  glass  jars  and  sterilize  by  the  cold  pack  method 
of  canning,  following  the  directions  given  in  the  chapter  on 
canning. 

Salt  Rising  Bread 

2  cupfuls  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

^  cupful  cornmeal  2  cupfuls  watar 

4  teaspoonfuls  sugar  flour 

Scald  the  milk  and  mix  it  with  the  cornmeal,  sugar  and  salt. 
Let  stand  several  hours,  or  overnight,  in  a  very  warm  place. 
After  standing  it  should  be  light.  Add  warm  water  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Keep  at  a  very  warm  temperature, 
167  degrees  Fahrenheit,  until  light.  Then  add  sufiicient  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough  and  shape  into  2  loaves.  Allow  to  rise  and 
double  its  bulk,  and  bake.  Care  should  be  taken  to  keep  the 
temperature  higher  than  for  ordinary  bread.  The  milk  should 
always  be  scalded  before  mixing  the  batter,  as  more  uniform  re- 
sults may  be  obtained,  and  a  product  secured  which  does  not 
have  the  unpleasant  odor  frequently  associated  with  salt  rising 
bread. 

Making  Sauerkraut 

Eemove  the  outside  leaves  and  hard  core  of  cabbage.  Cut 
into  fine  shreds  and  pack  in  layers,  3  to  6  inches  deep,  in  a 
crock  or  keg.  Sprinkle  every  layer  with  salt,  repeating  the 
process  until  the  cabbage  is  within  a  few  inches  of  the  top.  For 
every  100  pounds  of  shredded  cabbage  use  10  to  12  cupfuls  of 
salt.  Press  the  cabbage  down  until  the  brine  covers  it,  place  a 
few  leaves  over  the  top,  arrange  a  clean  board  or  plate  over  the 
leaves  and  weight  it  down  with  a  heavy  block.  Lime  stones 
should  not  be  used  for  weights  since  they  are  attacked  by  the 


226     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

acid  of  the  brine.  Eemove  the  scum  which  forms  on  top  when 
it  is  noticed  and  see  that  the  kraut  is  kept  covered  with  brine. 
Keep  a  clean  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  crock  to  make  certain  that 
dust,  dirt  and  insects  cannot  get  in.  When  the  kraut  is  cured, 
which  will  be  from  2  to  3  weeks  in  warm  weather  and  from  6 
to  8  weeks  in  winter,  it  may  be  canned. 

Preserving  Eggs 

Eggs  are  most  abundant  and  lowest  in  price  during  the  spring 
and  early  summer  months.  Therefore  it  is  best  to  put  them  up 
at  this  season  for  winter  use.  Use  only  good,  fresh  eggs  for 
this  purpose.  Six  quarts  of  solution  in  a  3-gallon  jar  will  pre- 
serve 10  dozen  eggs.  Use  1  part,  about  a  pint,  of  waterglass  to 
9  parts  of  boiled  water  which  has  been  allowed  to  cool.  Stir  the 
mixture  thoroughly  and  pour  it  into  a  crock  and  put  in  the  eggs. 
Store  in  a  cool  place,  such  as  a  cellar,  and  be  certain  that  the 
tops  of  the  eggs  are  covered  with  2  or  3  inches  of  the  liquid. 
Add  fresh  water  to  replace  the  liquid  which  evaporates.  Buy 
fresh  waterglass  from  the  druggist  every  year  instead  of  keeping 
a  supply  on  hand.  The  solution  is  not  good  for  a  second  year's 
use.     Infertile  eggs  are  better  for  preserving  than  fertile  ones. 

Keeping  Cellar  Free  from  Dampness 

A  large  open  box  or  pan  filled  with  fresh  lime  helps  to  dry 
and  purify  the  air  in  a  cellar.  When  the  lime  becomes  air- 
slacked,  it  should  be  discarded  and  fresh  lime  added. 

Tanning  Hides 

Wash  the  skin  with  strong  soap  suds  to  remove  dirt  from  the 
wool,  soak  overnight  in  soapy  water  and  tack  down  over  a  barrel 
to  dry.  Have  the  flesh  side  down.  When  nearly  dry,  remove 
the  hide  and  clean  off  any  pieces  of  flesh  or  fat  that  remain. 
Eub  prepared  chalk  over  the  skin  until  no  more  can  be  rubbed 
in  and  then  rub  with  powdered  alum  and  sprinkle  this  all  over 
the  skin.  This  is  the  method  used  for  treating  sheepskins  and 
goatskins. 

In  preparing  coon  and  squirrel  hides  for  caps,  sheepskins  and 
goatskins  for  rugs  and  lambskins  for  coats  and  vests  the  hides 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES  227 

may  be  nibbed  with  alum  and  saltpeter.  Then  they  are  folded 
with  the  flesh  sides  together^  rolled  tightly  and  stored  in  a  dry 
place  a  week.  The  flesh  side  is  then  nibbed  down  with  a  damp 
cloth  dipped  in  rotten  stone  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  acquires 
a  polish. 

Bleaching  and  Re-sizing  Straw  Hats 

Mix  the  juice  of  1  lemon  with  1  tablespoonful  of  sulphur  and 
apply  this  thick  paste  with  a  brush  to  the  hat.  It  is  best  to  re- 
move the  hat  band  before  the  mixture  is  applied.  Rub  the  paste 
into  the  straw,  then  rinse  by  moistening  the  brush  in  clear 
water,  taking  care  not  to  use  any  more  water  than  is  necessary 
to  remove  all  the  paste.  If  the  straw  hat  is  flimsy,  re-size  by 
beating  up  the  white  of  an  egg  and  applying  this  to  the  straw 
with  a  fine  brush. 

Waterproofing  Leather 

An  old-fashioned  recipe  for  waterproofing  leather  is  to  melt 
by  gentle  heat  4  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil,  5  ounces  of  boiled  lin- 
seed oil,  4  ounces  of  suet  and  4  ounces  of  beeswax.  This  is  ap- 
plied to  the  leather  while  warm.  A  simple  method  is  that  of 
rubbing  the  leather  with  equal  amounts  of  mutton  tallow  and 
beeswax. 

Removing  Furniture  Blemishes 

To  remove  white  spots  from  varnished  surfaces  which  have 
been  caused  by  water,  fill  a  small  basin  with  tepid  water  and 
add  several  drops  of  household  ammonia  to  it.  Dip  a  soft  cloth 
in  this,  wring  quite  dry  and  apply  to  the  unsightly  places.  It 
may  take  three  or  four  applications  to  remove  every  trace  of 
whiteness.  When  they  disappear,  rub  the  surface  gently  with 
furniture  polish. 

White  stains  on  dining  room  tables  made  by  hot  dishes  may 
be  removed  by  being  covered  with  baking  soda.  A  hot  iron  is 
held  near,  taking  care  that  the  wood  is  not  scorched.  Repeating 
this  process  two  or  three  times  and  rubbing  the  surface  with 
furniture  polish  will  usually  restore  the  desired  appearance. 

When  scratches  appear  on  furniture  or  woodwork,  go  over  the 
surface  with  a  cloth  moistened  in  furniture  polish  to  see  if  the 


228  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EXILE  BOOK 

dye  in  it  will  make  the  scratch  invisible.  Another  method 
which  may  be  used  is  to  apply  a  small  amount  of  water  color  for 
wood  to  the  scratch,  using  a  shade  which  matches  the  finish  of 
the  wood. 

Highly  polished  surfaces  which  are  marred  by  hairlines  or 
tiny  cracks  may  be  improved  by  being  rubbed  from  day  to  day 
with  a  cloth  moistened  in  oil,  1  part  lemon  oil  to  2  parts  of 
boiled  linseed  oil. 

Bruises  or  dents  may  be  removed  with  water  and  heat.  Take 
four  thicknesses  of  blotting  paper  and  dip  in  water.  When  the 
superfluous  water  has  dripped  away,  place  the  paper  over  the 
bruise  and  hold  a  hot  flat  or  electric  iron  near  it.  The  heat 
and  moisture  cause  the  wood  to  expand.  More  than  one  treat- 
ment of  this  kind  may  be  required  to  remove  a  large  dent.  After 
removing  the  blotting  paper,  lay  a  cloth  moistened  in  linseed  oil 
on  the  surface.  Several  hours  later,  remove  it  and  polish  with 
a  solution  made  by  combining  equal  parts  of  turpentine  and  lin- 
seed oil. 

Removing  Floor  Blemishes 

Black,  ink-like  stains  on  oak  floors  are  caused  by  the  iron  in 
water  reacting  with  the  gallic  acid  in  the  wood.  They  are  very 
obstinate  but  may  be  dimmed  and  frequently  are  removed  by 
dipping  a  cloth  in  weak  oxalic  acid  and  rubbing  the  spot  with 
this.  After  it  is  dimmed  or  disappears,  the  surface  is  rinsed 
two  or  three  times  with  clear  water  and  wax  or  oil  is  applied  to 
restore  the  finish.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  let  the  acid 
touch  the  hands. 

Making  Lye 

Fill  a  wooden  keg  or  half-barrel  with  wood  ashes.  Holes 
should  be  bored  in  the  keg  or  barrel  a  few  inches  above  the  bot- 
tom. Pour  water  on  the  ashes  and  place  a  wooden  trough  or 
pails  to  catch  the  lye  water  which  seeps  out  from  the  ash  barrel 
or  keg. 

Making  Cider 

Only  wholesome  apples  should  be  used.  Bruised  fruit  need 
not  be  discarded  but  the  decayed  portions  should  be  cut  out  or 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES  229 

they  will  give  the  cider  a  disagreeable  flavor.  Wash  the  apples, 
grind  them  in  a  cider  mill  and  place  them  in  a  press  which  re- 
moves the  juice.  Drain  this  in  clean  vessels,  wooden  barrels  or 
kegs  which  have  previously  been  scalded.  Store  in  the  coolest 
place  possible. 

Since  sweet  cider  sours  so  rapidly,  it  usually  is  pasteurized 
the  next  day  after  it  is  made.  To  do  this  sterilize  glass  fruit 
jars  or  bottles  by  boiling  them  in  water  several  minutes.  Pour 
the  cider  in  these  sterile  containers  and  set  these  on  a  wooden 
rack  in  the  bottom  of  a  wash  boiler.  Fill  the  boiler  with  cold 
water  which  reaches  to  the  necks  of  the  bottles  and  hang  a  ther- 
mometer half  its  length  in  the  water.  Heat  the  water  until  it 
reaches  175  degrees  Fahrenheit,  but  do  not  let  the  water  become 
warmer.  Leave  the  vessels  containing  the  cider  in  this  water 
bath  30  minutes  if  quart  or  half  gallon  bottles  or  glass  jars  are 
used  and  45  minutes  if  gallon  containers  are  used.  Then  re- 
move the  cans  or  bottles  and  tighten  the  covers  on  the  cans  and 
place  corks  in  the  bottles.  Place  in  the  cellar^  cave  or  some  cool 
dark  place  for  storage.  Watch  them  for  a  week  or  two ;  if  there 
is  a  froth  at  the  top  of  the  cider,  it  is  fermenting.  The  lids  of 
the  jars  will  have  to  be  loosened  and  the  corks  of  the  bottles  re- 
moved and  the  containers  placed  in  the  water  bath  and  given  the 
same  treatment  as  before.  Before  placing  the  cider  in  the  wash 
boiler,  place  cotton  in  the  mouths  of  the  bottles  and  place  rub- 
bers and  lids  which  have  been  sterilized  in  boiling  water  on  the 
cans.  Do  not  screw  the  lids  on  tightly,  but  just  give  it  a  half 
turn  so  it  will  hold  during  the  sterilization.  The  lids  may  be 
sterilized  by  being  boiled  with  the  cans  and  the  rubbers  are 
dipped  in  boiling  water. 

The  cooked  or  boiled  taste  that  usually  is  not  liked  when 
canned  cider  is  served  is  avoided  in  this  method,  provided  a 
thermometer  is  used  and  the  water  is  not  heated  above  175 
degrees  F.  It  must  be  heated  this  much,  however,  or  it  will 
not  keep. 

Sizing  Walls 

Dissolve  1  pound  of  glue  in  a  little  hot  water  and  then  add  1 
gallon  of  cold  water.  Apply  this  to  the  wall  with  a  brush  before 
adding  new  paper. 


230     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Cleaning  Shoes 

If  a  coarse  scrubbing  brush  is  kept  near  the  door,  the  shoes 
may  be  cleaned  with  this  much  easier  than  if  a  knife  is  used. 
The  knife  may  cut  or  scrape  the  leather.  Rubbing  leather 
shoes  with  milk  once  a  week  helps  to  keep  them  in  a  good  con- 
dition. 

Preventing  Leather  Seats  from  becoming  Sticky- 
Leather  chair  seats  and  upholstered  furniture  frequently  be- 
come sticky.  This  usually  is  caused  by  the  leather  drying  out. 
To  prevent  it,  rub  the  leather  every  month  or  two  with  a  soft 
cloth  moistened  in  neat's-foot  oil.  When  the  stickiness  occurs, 
remove  as  much  of  it  as  possible  with  gasoline  and  apply  neat's- 
foot  oil.    Do  not  wipe  the  oil  off  for  a  day  or  two. 

Removing  Mildew  from  Leather 

Apply  vaseline  with  a  soft  cloth  to  remove  mildew  from 
leather. 

Removing  Grease  from  Leather 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  slightly  and  apply  to  the  grease  spot. 
Set  in  the  sun  to  dry,  then  brush  off. 

Making  Egg  Candler 

Before  setting  eggs  under  hens  or  putting  them  down  for  the 
winter,  they  may  be  candled  to  make  certain  they  are  fresh.  A 
simple  candler  consists  of  a  pasteboard  shoe  box  with  a  hole  a 
little  larger  than  a  half  dollar  cut  in  one  side.  Slip  the  box 
over  the  lamp  or  electric  light  bulb  in  a  dark  room  and  hold  the 
eggs,  large  end  up,  before  the  opening  in  the  box.  Good  eggs  will 
look  clear  and  firm  and  the  white  spot,  or  air  cell,  at  the  end 
of  the  egg  is  small,  not  larger  than  a  dime.  The  yolk  can  be 
seen  as  a  dim  spot  in  the  center.  A  large  air  cell  and  a  dark, 
freely  moving  yolk  indicates  that  the  egg  is  not  fresh. 

Cottage  Cheese 

Set  a  quantity  of  fresh  sour  milk  in  a  moderately  warm  room 
and  allow  to  sour  naturally.     Unless  the  milk  has  been  con- 


HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES  231 

taminated  at  the  barn  or  by  a  soiled  utensil,  the  curd  will  be 
smooth,  even  and  free  from  gas  bubbles.  The  best  temperature 
to  set  milk  for  cottage  cheese  is  70  to  72  degrees.  As  soon  as  the 
milk  is  curdled  throughout,  stir  and  break  it  up;  then  heat  it 
gradually  to  10-i  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  you  do  not  have  a  dairy 
thermometer,  set  the  milk  on  the  back  of  the  stove  so  it  will  not 
be  heated  too  much.  When  the  whey  separates  from  the  curd, 
pour  the  curd  into  a  muslin  bag  and  hang  up  to  drain.  It  takes 
from  2  to  10  hours  to  drain  the  curd,  depending  on  the  size  and 
firmness  of  the  curd  particles.  When  drained,  it  is  moist  and 
granular  but  not  sticky. 

The  drained  curd  is  then  salted  to  taste.  About  1  ounce  of 
salt  is  sufficient  for  8  pounds  of  cheese.  Two  cupfuls  of  cream 
added  to  this  amount  of  cheese  will  improve  its  flavor.  Some 
homemakers  also  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Furniture  Polish 

To  1  cupful  of  turpentine  add  a  piece  of  beeswax  about  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Stir  into  this  IV2  pints  of  paraffine  oil.  Mix 
and  shake  well  and  apply  to  the  furniture  with  a  soft  cloth, 
being  careful  not  to  use  too  much.  Ugly  stains  may  be  removed 
by  using  rotten  stone  for  scouring  along  with  this  polish. 

Cleaning  the  Mattress 

To  remove  stains  from  a  mattress  rub  the  soiled  places  with 
dry  starch,  moistening  it  with  a  little  soap  jelly  or  soap  dis- 
solved in  warm  water.  This  will  make  a  paste.  Care  should  be 
taken  that  it  is  not  wet  enough  to  soak  into  the  mattress.  When 
dry,  brush  off  the  starch.  Occasionally  more  than  one  applica- 
tion is  necessary.  When  the  stains  have  disappeared,  sponge  the 
surface  with  a  little  ammonia  water. 

Making-  Bags 

Housework  is  made  easier  by  the  use  of  convenient  bags. 
After  lettuce  is  washed,  it  may  be  stored  in  a  cheesecloth  bag 
in  a  cool  place,  such  as  a  refrigerator.  Tomatoes  are  prepared 
easily  if  placed  in  a  tomato  bag  of  cheesecloth  and  scalded. 
They  can  be  hung  up  to  drain.     By  the  time  they  are  cool,  the 


232     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

skins  can  be  rubbed  off  and  the  vegetables  returned  to  the  bags 
to  await  the  serving  time.  A  three  cornered  jelly  bag  made  of 
two  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  or  of  cotton  flannel  is  helpful. 
If  a  canton  flannel  bag  is  tied  over  the  broom,  the  walls  and 
ceilings  may  be  brushed  down  without  being  scratched.  Bags 
of  cheesecloth,  net  or  mosquito  netting  which  are  filled  with 
dried  sweet  clover,  rose  petals  or  leaves,  rose  geranium,  lemon 
verbena,  lavender  or  other  summer  sweets  impart  a  fragrance  to 
sheets,  pillow  slips  and  other  household  linens  if  placed  among 
them.  Large  cheesecloth  bags  for  use  in  blanching  or  scalding 
vegetables  before  canning  them  by  the  cold  pack  method  sim- 
plify the  work. 

Wall  pockets  which  consist  of  a  rectangle  of  heavy  material 
such  as  cretonne,  Indian  head  and  denim  on  which  pockets  of 
various  sizes  are  stitched,  make  a  home  for  the  odds  and  ends 
in  a  household.  Shoe  and  laundry  pockets  may  be  tacked  to  the 
clothes  press  doors.  The  kitchen  wall  pocket  should  hold  a  ball 
of  twine,  wrapping  paper,  soiled  tea  towels,  corks,  rubber  bands 
and  other  useful  articles,  a  pocket  in  the  bathroom  holds  the 
dried  and  soiled  towels  and  a  mending  pocket  near  the  sewing 
machine  is  never  empty  long. 

Making  Old-Fashioned  Rose  Jar 

Gather  the  rose  petals  on  a  dry  day  after  the  dew  is  gone  and 
place  these 'petals  in  rose  jars,  which  are  vases  with  lids,  or  in 
fruit  jars.  Arrange  the  petals  in  thin  layers,  covering  each  one 
with  a  thin  layer  of  salt.  Repeat  until  the  jar  is  filled.  If  one 
wishes,  a  handful  of  lavender  flowers  or  rosemary  leaves  may  be 
added.  Add  3  or  4  ounces  of  pulverized  bay  salt,  1  ounce  of  nut- 
meg, 1  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  1  ounce  of  cloves.  Keep  the  jar 
closely  covered  except  when  the  perfume  is  wanted  in  a  room. 
These  are  especially  attractive  additions  to  old-fashioned  bed- 
rooms. 

Making  Money  in  the  Farm  Home 

The  homemaker  of  the  farm  household  who  wishes  to  make 
money  will  find  that  there  are  many  products  which  she  can 
sell.  The  important  factor  is  to  find  a  market  for  these  articles. 
An  exclusive  trade  of  city  customers  is  the  most  satisfactory  for 


HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES  233 

these  people  are  willing  to  pay  for  the  word  coimtry  when  ap- 
plied to  a  product.  Eggs  direct  from  the  country,  homemade 
country  sausage,  horseradish  or  cottage  cheese  are  worth  more  to 
a  city  dweller  than  store  eggSj  sausage,  horseradish  and  cheese. 
A  few  of  the  articles  which  farm  women  may  sell  with  profit  are 
poultry  and  poultry  products,  homemade  jellies  and  jams, 
canned  fruit  and  vegetables,  horseradish^  cottage  cheese,  vin- 
egars, flowers,  ferns,  rhubarb  and  fancy  fruit  preserves.  If  the 
home  is  large  enough,  city  boarders  may  be  taken  during  the 
summer  months  when  vacation  season  arrives.  Occasionally  a 
market  for  fancy  work  and  other  types  of  hand  sewing  may  be 
found. 

Making  Baby's  First  Bed 

Select  a  stout  clothes  basket  with  strong  handles.  A  satis- 
factory length  for  this  is  36  inches.  The  easiest  way  to  make 
this  basket  attractive  is  to  apply  two  coats  of  flat  white  paint 
to  it,  allowing  the  first  coat  to  dry  before  the  second  one  is 
added.  For  a  finish  a  coat  of  white  enamel  is  applied.  Then 
the  basket  is  lined  so  it  will  make  a  soft  bed.  First,  take  a  roll 
of  cotton  batting  and  distribute  it  evenly  on  the  sides  of  the 
basket,  tacking  it  in  place  with  thread.  Cover  this  with  a  wash- 
able material,  such  as  dotted  swiss,  mull,  silkaline,  cheesecloth 
or  dimity.  A  very  pretty  effect  is  obtained  by  using  two  linings, 
the  under  one  being  of  a  delicate  pink  or  blue  which  shows 
through  the  white  top  lining  of  sheer  lawn,  dotted  net  or  some 
other  fabric.  Usually  these  baskets  are  about  10  or  15  inches 
deep.  To  line  them  cut  the  material,  which  is  36  inches  vsdde 
and  2  yards  long,  in  two  strips  18  inches  in  width.  Sew  these 
together  making  one  long  piece.  The  raw  edges  are  turned  back 
and  the  strip  is  gathered  at  the  top  and  bottom  so  it  will  fit  the 
basket.  A  heading  is  allowed  at  the  top  for  a  finish.  Then  the 
gathered  strip  is  glued  or  sewed  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the 
inside  of  the  basket.  To  make  the  bassinet  comfortable,  as  well 
as  pretty,  a  mattress  or  pillow  is  placed  in  the  bottom. 

Removing  Fish  Odors 

The  odor  of  fish  or  cabbage  may  be  removed  from  dishes  by 
filling  them  with  boiling  water  and  dropping  a  piece  of  char- 


234     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

coal  in  the  water.    After  standing  a  short  time  the  undesirable 
odor  will  disappear. 

Cleaning  Irons 

Wipe  the  flat  iron  with  oiled  or  wax  paper  and  rub  it  on  a 
piece  of  fine  sandpaper  which  is  tacked  on  the  ironing  board, 
or  on  dry  salt. 

Making  Cellars  Warmer 

Paste  heavy  paper  over  the  rafters  in  the  ceiling  and  down 
over  the  sills  and  around  the  frames  of  the  windows,  using  the 
paste  which  is  applied  in  hanging  wall  paper.  The  addition  of 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  Venetian  turpentine  to  the  paste  will  help 
make  the  paper  stick. 

Loosening  Drawers  Which  Stick 

Rub  the  parts  of  the  drawers  which  stick  with  yellow  soap, 
with  paste  wax  or  with  tallow. 

Pilling  Cracks  in  Floors 

Putty  may  be  used  for  filling  cracks  in  floors  but  it  shows 
through  varnish  or  any  finish  placed  on  the  surface.  Another 
filling  may  be  made  by  dissolving  1  ounce  of  glue  in  2  cupfuls 
of  boiling  water.  While  this  is  hot,  tiny  bits  of  newspaper  are 
stirred  into  it.  When  the  mass  becomes  as  thick  as  putty,  it  is 
placed  in  the  cracks,  being  pushed  in  tightly  with  a  putty  knife. 
If  a  putty  knife  is  not  available,  a  blunt-edged  case  knife  may 
be  used.  This  filling  should  be  put  in  the  cracks  while  hot  and 
finished  evenly  at  the  top.  If  one  wishes,  it  may  be  colored  to 
match  the  stain  in  the  wood. 


Mending  Wall  Paper 

Select  the  right  portion  of  the  pattern  in  the  roll  for  the 
patch.  Then  tear  an  irregular  piece  instead  of  cutting  it.  Paste 
this  over  the  tear  in  the  paper  on  the  wall. 


HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES  235 

Removing  Grease  Spots  from  Walls 

Fold  a  piece  of  white  blotting  paper  and  pin  French  chalk  in 
the  fold.  Hold  this  over  the  grease  spot,  ironing  it  with  an  elec- 
tric or  flat  iron,  taking  care  that  the  wall  is  not  scorched. 
Change  the  position  of  the  blotting  paper  frequently. 

Drying  Herbs 

Among  the  herbs  which  may  be  grown  in  the  garden  or  in 
window  boxes  are  sage,  parsley,  thyme,  chervil,  basil  and  mint. 
The  leaves  from  these  plants  may  be  picked,  spread  on  paper 
and  dried  in  a  warm  room,  but  not  in  direct  sunlight,  for  use  in 
the  winter. 

Powdering  Herbs 

The  dried  herbs  may  be  placed  in  tightly  covered  cans  for 
storage.  If  one  wishes,  they  may  be  powdered  by  being  pounded 
in  a  wooden  chopping  bowl  with  a  wooden  potato  masher. 

Making  Pan  Holders 

The  hands  will  be  saved  many  burns  if  hot  pan  holders  are 
kept  in  the  kitchen  for  use  when  one  is  cooking.  Satisfactory 
holders  are  made  by  cutting  diamond  shaped  pieces  from  heavy 
table  padding  and  covering  these  with  removable  gingham 
covers  which  may  be  washed.  If  an  unbleached  muslin  pocket 
is  made  for  these  holders  and  hung  near  the  kitchen  stove,  one 
never  needs  to  look  for  them. 

Storing  Vegetables 

For  home  use  cabbage  and  root  vegetables  may  be  stored  in  the 
cellar  for  early  winter  consumption  and  outdoors  in  pits  for  late 
winter  use.  The  great  danger  of  cellar  storage  for  these  vege- 
tables is  that  they  may  wilt.  This  can  be  overcome  to  some 
extent  by  packing  them  in  boxes  with  alternate  layers  of  sand 
or  earth  and  setting  these  boxes  in  the  coolest  part  of  the  base- 
ment. The  outer  leaves  of  the  cabbage  are  removed  before  the 
heads  are  packed  in  the  boxes. 

Usually  the  pits  for  outdoor  storage   are   made  above  the 


236     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

ground  unless  one  is  certain  that  the  drainage  is  unusually  good. 
The  cabbage  is  pulled  with  roots  and  leaves  on  and  the  heads 
are  placed  in  regular  rows  on  a  level  stretch  of  ground.  The 
heads  are  placed  down.  The  common  way  is  to  arrange  three 
heads  in  a  row  with  two  heads  on  top.  Earth  is  piled  against 
the  cabbage  until  the  plants,  including  the  roots,  are  entirely 
covered.  In  cold  climates  a  layer  of  manure  is  placed  over  this 
pile.  Parsnips,  salsify  and  horseradish  may  be  stored  in  this 
same  way.  They  are  covered  with  6  or  8  inches  of  earth.  Tur- 
nips, rutabagas,  potatoes,  beets  and  carrots  may  be  stored  in 
outdoor  pits,  but  they  must  be  covered  sufficiently  so  they  will 
not  freeze.  Usually  it  is  more  convenient  to  store  these  vege- 
tables in  the  cellar  or  cave.  In  case  there  are  not  facilities  for 
cellar  or  basement  storage,  place  the  vegetables  on  the  ground 
and  cover  them  with  8  inches  of  straw  or  hay.  Then  cover  the 
straw  with  8  inches  of  earth.  A  layer  of  manure  is  then  placed 
outside  the  earth. 

Celery  may  be  stored  in  the  cellar  or  cave  if  it  is  cool.  The 
plants  are  dug  with  the  roots  on  and  are  planted  in  moist  earth 
on  the  cellar  or  cave  floor.  The  earth  about  the  plant  roots  is 
wet  occasionally,  but  care  must  be  taken  not  to  moisten  the 
leaves. 

After  onions  are  pulled,  they  should  be  allowed  to  dry  or 
cure  before  being  stored.  If  the  cellar  is  cool,  the  onions  may 
be  placed  in  baskets  and  hung  at  the  top  of  the  cellar.  Attic 
storage  is  satisfactory  if  there  is  a  place  near  the  chimney  where 
it  is  warm  enough  to  keep  the  onions  from  freezing.  Darkness 
keeps  them  from  sprouting. 

Sweet  potatoes,  pumpkins  and  squashes  must  be  stored  in  a 
warm  and  dry  place  where  there  is  a  free  circulation  of  air.  A 
good  way  to  keep  sweet  potatoes  is  to  put  them  in  slatted  boxes 
which  are  set  in  an  upstairs  room  which  is  kept  warm  all  the 
time  or  in  a  basement  where  there  is  a  furnace. 

Mending  Rugs 

Select  a  piece  of  soft,  flimsy  woolen  material  or  burlap  and 
baste  this  under  the  hole  in  the  floor  covering.  Either  darn  this 
down  with  yarn  to  match  that  used  in  the  rug  or  use  the  yarn 
double  and  stick  the  needle  through  from  the  top.  bring  it  up  in 


HOUSEHOLD  EECIPES  237 

almost  the  same  place  and  tie  to  the  end  above.  Eepeat  this 
process  until  the  surface  of  the  patch  is  covered  with  loops.  Trim 
these  off  evenly. 

Removing  Varnish 

Wash  the  surface  with  strong  lye  water,  using  a  scrub  brush 
so  the  hands  will  not  touch  the  water.  When  most  of  the  var- 
nish disappears,  rinse  the  surface  two  or  three  times  with  clear 
water.  The  few  spots  of  varnish  left  may  be  removed  by  apply- 
ing wood  alcohol  or  by  being  rubbed  with  sandpaper.  The  sur- 
face should  be  sandpapered  before  being  refinished. 

Sweetening  Rancid  Butter 

Soak  the  butter  in  water  to  which  a  small  handful  of  baking 
soda  has  been  added.  After  soaking  some  little  time,  drain  off 
the  water  and  wash  the  butter  with  sweet  milk.  Work  the  milk 
out  thoroughly  and  the  flavor  of  the  butter  will  be  fresh. 

Pigments  for  Stains 

When  staining  furniture,  woodwork  or  floors^  burnt  umber 
may  be  added  to  give  a  black  walnut  color,  burnt  sienna  for  ma- 
hogany and  yellow  ocher  for  a  yellow  shade.  Three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  any  of  these  materials  are  added  to  a  gallon  of  the  stain. 

Polishes  for  Woodwork 

A  good  polish  for  wood  surfaces  is  made  by  mixing  together 
1  cupful  of  turpentine,  1  cupful  of  linseed  oil  and  1  cupful  of 
vinegar.  Another  excellent  polish  is  prepared  by  mixing  1  cup- 
ful of  linseed  oil,  1  cupful  of  turpentine  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
ammonia  together.  Either  of  these  polishes  is  sprinkled  lightly 
on  a  soft  cloth  and  applied  to  the  furniture  or  woodwork  with 
the  grain  of  the  wood. 

Repairing  Plaster 

Cut  away  the  edges  of  the  crack  or  hole  with  a  sharp  paring 
knife,  making  them  straight.  Fill  the  cavity  with  plaster  of 
Paris  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar.    The  vinegar  keeps  the  plaster 


238     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

of  Paris  from  setting  so  quickly.  A  good  filling  for  cracks  in 
plaster  is  made  by  mixing  II/2  tablespoonfuls  of  plaster  of  Paris 
with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sand  and  moistening  the  mixture 
with  vinegar. 

Removing  Putty 

Putty  may  be  removed  from  glass  by  applying  a  heated  iron 
to  the  spot  and  when  it  becomes  soft,  scraping  it  off  with  a  knife. 
If  the  putty  is  on  the  wood,  either  soften  it  with  the  hot  iron, 
taking  care  not  to  scorch  the  wood,  or  apply  a  little  dilute  sul- 
phuric acid  to  it  with  a  brush.  After  using  the  acid,  wash  the 
surface  with  soapy  water  and  rinse  two  or  three  times  in  clear 
water. 

Renovating  Gilt  Picture  Frames 

If  pieces  of  the  frame  are  broken  off,  use  a  bit  of  putty  prop- 
erly shaped  to  build  up  the  surface.  Then  apply  a  coat  of  gold 
paint.  The  putty  should  be  allowed  to  dry  before  the  paint  is 
added. 

Packing  Books  and  Pictures  in  Moving 

Since  books  are  so  heavy,  pack  them  in  several  small  boxes  or 
barrels  instead  of  one  large  one.  Wrap  the  books  in  small  pack- 
ages, placing  a  layer  of  paper  between  the  bindings.  Place  about 
6  books  in  every  package.  Use  old  newspapers  for  the  wrapping 
paper.  Tie  every  package  of  books  with  cord  so  they  cannot  rub 
together.  These  packages  of  books  are  packed  in  the  box  or  bar- 
rel, the  open  space  being  filled  with  crumpled  newspaper  or  ex- 
celsior so  the  books  cannot  move  within  the  box. 

Two  pictures  are  packed  together  face  to  face  with  a  blanket 
or  quilt  between  them.  Small  ones  are  placed  among  clothes  in 
bureau  drawers  and  the  large  ones  are  crated. 

Clearing  Room  of  Mosquitoes 

Mosquitoes  may  be  driven  from  a  room  by  hanging  tender 
branches  of  castor  beans  here  and  there  or  by  spreading  wilted 
leaves  of  the  castor  bean  in  different  parts  of  the  room.  The 
Entomology  Bureau  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture recommends  sprinkling  equal  parts  of  spirits  of  camphor 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES  239 

and  oil  of  citronella  and  I/2  part  of  oil  of  cedar  on  a  towel  and 
hanging  this  at  the  head  of  a  bed  in  a  room  infested  with  mos- 
quitoes. 

Preparing  a  Dust  Cloth 

Dust  will  collect  on  the  furniture  if  too  much  polish  is  ap- 
plied. A  good  way  to  add  the  right  amount  is  to  place  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  polish  in  a  glass  fruit  jar,  rolling  the  can  until 
its  sides  are  coated  with  the  polish.  Then  insert  the  tightly 
rolled  dust  cloth,  close  the  fruit  jar  and  let  stand  2  days.  The 
polish  will  be  evenly  distributed  on  the  cloth. 

Making  Wliitewash 

Place  10  pounds  of  quicklime  in  a  container  and  stir  in  2 
gallons  of  water.  Cover  and  let  stand  an  hour,  stirring  occa- 
sionally. The  addition  of  4%  pounds  of  salt  will  make  the 
whitewash  stick  better. 

A  whitewash  which  will  last  longer  is  made  by  using  38  pounds 
of  quicklime,  3  pounds  of  sodium  phosphate,  5  pounds  of  caseine 
and  91^  gallons  of  water.  Mix  the  lime  and  the  water  and 
when  cool,  add  the  casein  dissolved  in  the  solution  of  sodium 
phosphate.    This  is  used  for  exterior  purposes. 

Another  excellent  recipe  for  whitewash  is  this :  mix  50  pounds 
of  hydrated  lime  in  boiling  water  until  a  thin  paste  is  formed. 
Add  1  peck  of  salt,  3  pounds  of  rice  flour,  I/2  pound  of  Spanish 
whiting  and  1  pound  of  clear  glue  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
The  salt  should  be  dissolved  in  boiling  water  and  the  rice  flour 
boiled  with  water  to  a  thin  paste  before  it  is  added  to  the  salt 
solution.  After  mixing  thoroughly,  the  mixture  is  allowed  to 
stand  several  days.  When  being  applied^  the  whitewash  should 
be  hot  if  possible. 


CHAPTER  2 
LAUNDEEING  EECIPES 

Homemade  Soap  from  Cracklings 

Pour  2  gallons  of  water  into  an  iron  kettle  and  empty  3  cans 
of  lye  into  it.  Let  cool  1  hour.  Place  the  lye  mixture  on  the 
stove  and  add  14  pounds  of  fryings  or  cracklings.  Let  this  boil 
until  every  particle  of  grease  is  dissolved.  Add  cold  water  from 
time  to  time,  adding  just  enough  to  keep  the  quantity  of  liquid 
the  same  all  the  time.  The  addition  of  cold  water  also  keeps  the 
mixture  from  boiling  over. 

When  all  the  grease  is  dissolved,  set  the  mixture  aside  to  cool 
overnight.  In  the  morning  skim  off  the  white  crust  and  brown 
jelly,  leaving  the  sediment  in  the  bottom.  Dispose  of  the  sedi- 
ment and  wash  the  kettle.  Put  the  white  crust  and  jelly  back 
into  the  kettle  and  boil  2  hours.  Then  add  boiling  water  until 
the  soap  becomes  the  consistency  of  honey  when  dropped  from 
a  stick.  Be  careful  not  to  add  too  much  water.  Pour  into  molds 
or  boxes,  which  have  been  wet  first  in  cold  water,  and  cover  the 
soap  while  cooling.    Do  not  let  freeze  before  it  is  hard. 

Laundry  Soap  from  Fat 

Use  1%  gallons  of  water  to  every  1  pound  box  of  lye  and  5 
pounds  of  fat  to  every  pound  of  lye.  Dissolve  the  lye  in  the 
water.  As  soon  as  the  solution  boils,  stir  in  the  fat  and  boil 
until  the  mass  becomes  the  consistency  of  honey  when  dropped 
from  a  stick.  When  almost  done,  a  small  portion  should  be 
placed  in  a  saucer  and  if  it  solidifies,  the  mass  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  stove,  poured  into  wet  molds  and  set  away  in 
a  warm  place  to  harden. 

240 


LAUNDERING  RECIPES  241 

Soap  without  Boiling 

Dissolve  2  pounds  of  soda  lye  in  6  quarts  of  water.  When 
cool,  add  this  to  14  pounds  of  melted,  but  not  heated,  fat.  Stir 
the  mixture  until  it  resembles  the  consistency  of  honey  and  is 
creamy.  Pour  into  granite-ware  pans,  wet  first  in  cold  water, 
or  in  pasteboard  boxes.  When  almost  hard,  cut  in  squares. 
Pack  it  with  open  spaces  between  pieces  and  allow  to  dry  for 
at  least  a  month  before  using.  This  makes  a  hard  laundry- 
soap. 

Soap  Jelly  for  Washing  Woolens 

Shave  2  cakes  of  any  mild  white  soap  in  2  quarts  of  water,  add 
1  cupful  of  borax  and  heat  gently  until  the  soap  is  dissolved. 
Pour  this  in  fruit  jars,  cover  and  use  as  needed. 

Whitening  Flannels  and  Silks 

If  white  woolen  or  silk  garments,  such  as  baby  flannels,  white 
serges,  silk  gloves  and  hose,  become  yellowed,  they  may  be 
whitened  with  hydrogen  peroxide.  To  every  10  pints  of  luke- 
warm water  add  1  pint  of  hydrogen  peroxide  and  a  few  drops' 
of  household  ammonia.  Soak  the  clothes  in  this  solution  until 
they  are  white. 

Starch  Making 

Mix  %  cupful  of  starch  with  i/4  cupful  of  cold  water  and  add 
14  teaspoonful  of  shaved  white  wax  and  4  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  sticking,  and 
cool  before  using.  This  makes  a  thick  starch.  If  thin  starch  is 
desired,  add  4  cupfuls  of  cold  water  to  the  thick  starch  and  stir 
until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Salt  added  to  starch  prevents  it 
from  freezing  in  clothes  hung  outdoors  in  cold  weather.  To  a 
quart  of  cooked  starch  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Gum  arable 
may  be  added  to  increase  the  gloss  and  to  provide  stiffness.  In 
fact,  starch  containing  gum  arable  gives  material  the  appear- 
ance and  body  that  new  fabrics  have. 

To  prepare  the  gum  arable  for  use  in  starch  dissolve  2  ounces 
of  white  gum  arable  in  2  cupfuls  of  water.     Place  the  gum 


242     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

arable  in  a  fruit  jar,  add  the  water,  cover  tightly  and  shake  until 
it  is  dissolved.  After  the  solution  has  stood  2  days,  drain 
through  cheesecloth  and  bottle  for  future  use.  Just  before  tak- 
ing the  boiled  starch  from  the  stove,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  the 
gum  arabic  solution. 

Rice  Starch 

Add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  washed  rice  to  1  quart  of  rapidly 
boiling  water.  Cook  until  the  rice  is  a  pulp,  adding  more  hot 
water  occasionally  so  the  amount  will  remain  the  same.  When 
the  rice  is  cooked  to  a  pulp,  add  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and 
strain,  without  pressing,  through  a  flannel  bag.  Use  while  hot, 
diluting  with  a  little  cool  water  if  it  is  too  thick. 

Tinted  Starches 

A  little  tea  may  be  added  to  the  starch  used  with  dark  fab- 
rics and  a  few  drops  of  bluing  improve  the  appearance  of  the 
starch  used  with  white  and  blue  materials. 


Uncooked  Starch 

To  3  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  and  1  teaspoonful  of  borax  add 
2  cupfuls  of  tepid  water.    Stir  and  use  immediately. 

Setting  Colors 

Add  1  pint  of  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum  to  1 
gallon  of  water  and  use  in  soaking  fabrics  to  set  the  following 
colors :  pink,  brown,  red,  yellow,  gray,  black  and  black  and  white 
mixtures. 

Green  is  set  by  soaking  the  garment  in  1  gallon  of  water  to 
which  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum  has  been  added. 

If  strong  salt  water  fails  to  set  blue  dye  in  fabrics,  1  table- 
spoonful of  powdered  alum,  ^2  cupful  of  strong  vinegar  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  of  lead,  a  poison,  may  be  added  to  a  gal- 
lon of  water  used  in  the  soaking. 

Lavender  and  purple  are  set  by  being  soaked  in  a  gallon  of 
water  to  which  %  cupful  of  strong  vinegar  is  added. 


LAUNDERING  RECIPES  243 

Bleaching  Yellowed  WMte  Fabrics 

To  bleach  yellowed  white  cotton  and  linen  fabrics,  moisten 
the  material  in  a  solution  made  by  dissolving  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
potassium  permanganate  in  2  quarts  of  water.  Rinse  in  a  clear 
warm  water.  The  material  will  become  brown.  Then  dip  it  in 
a  dilute  oxalic  acid  solution,  made  by  diluting  the  concentrated 
acid  in  an  equal  amount  of  water.  Rinse  through  several  waters, 
one  of  which  is  soapy. 

If  all  the  white  clothes  appear  a  little  yellow,  use  a  lemon  or 
oxalic  acid  rinse  when  washing.  Use  l^  tubful  of  hot  water 
and  add  the  juice  of  4  large  lemons  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oxalic 
acid  crystals  first  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Put  the 
clothes  in  this  rinse  a  few  at  a  time  and  let  stand  4  or  5  minutes 
and  then  put  through  a  clear  hot  rinse. 

Drying  the  clothes  outdoors  in  the  sunshine  is  the  best  way 
to  keep  them  white.  Slightly  yellowed  garments  may  be  wet  in 
water  and  spread  on  the  grass  in  the  sunshine  to  bleach. 

Washing  Pillows  and  Feathers 

Fill  a  tub  almost  full  of  water  and  add  1  cupful  of  borax  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  ammonia.  Place  soiled  feather  pillows  in  this 
and  boil  20  minutes.  Scrub  the  tick  to  make  certain  it  is  clean. 
Rinse  three  times  in  clear  warm  water  and  hang  outdoors  in  the 
wind,  but  in  a  shady  place  if  possible.  If  one  wishes,  the  feath- 
ers may  be  poured  through  a  small  opening  in  the  tick  into  a 
muslin  bag.  Then  the  feathers  and  the  pillow  covering  may  be 
washed  separately. 

Javelle  Water 

1  pound  sal  soda  or  pearl  ash  ^  pound  chloride  of  lime 

2  quarts  cold  water 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  let  stand  overnight.  Pour 
off  the  clear  liquid  and  bottle  for  use.  Store  in  a  cool,  dark 
place.  To  use  Javelle  Water,  stretch  the  stained  article  and 
rub  the  liquid  into  it.  Then  rinse  it  quickly  in  clear  water 
and  rub  a  little  if  necessary.  When  the  stain  is  gone,  rinse  in 
a  little  ammonia  water.  Javelle  water  is  used  only  in  removing 
stains  from  white  cottons  and  linens. 


244     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Removing  Scorch 

Scorch  usually  can  be  removed  from  cottons  and  linens  by 
being  moistened  in  water  and  placed  in  the  sun  to  dry.  It  may 
be  necessary  to  repeat  this  process  more  than  once. 

Removing  Mucus  from  Handkerchiefs 

Soak  the  handkerchiefs  in  salt  water  or  in  boric  acid  and 
water. 

Removing  Ordinary  Stains 

Blood — Soak  fabric  in  tepid  water. 

Chocolate  and  Cocoa — Wash  in  cold  water.  Bleach  white 
fabrics  with  Javelle  water. 

Coffee — ^Pour  boiling  water  through  fabric  or  cover  with  water 
in  which  borax  is  dissolved. 

Egg — Wash  out  in  cold  water. 

Fruit — Pour  boiling  water  through  fabric  or  dissolve  in  alco- 
hol.   Use  Javelle  water  on  white  materials. 

Glue — Use  white  vinegar  or  acetic  acid. 

Grass — Dissolve  with  alcohol  or  kerosene. 

Grease — Soften  with  lard  or  turpentine  and  then  wash  in  soap 
suds. 

Gum — Eemove  stain  with  gasoline. 

Ink — Soak  in  milk  or  bleach  with  salt,  lemon  juice  and  sun- 
shine. 

Fountain  Pen  Ink — Use  Javelle  water. 

Iron  Rust — Lemon  juice,  salt  and  sunshine  or  Javelle  water. 

Iodine — Hyposulphite  of  soda  or  chloroform  should  be  used. 

Medicine — Dissolve  the  stain  in  alcohol. 

Mildew — Bleach  with  lemon  juice  and  sunshine  or  Javelle 
water. 

Milk  or  Cream — Wash  with  cold  water,  then  with  cold  water 
and  soap  suds. 

Paint,  Varnish  and  Tar — Soak  in  turpentine  or  alcohol  or  if 
very  dry,  soften  with  lard  and  wash  with  soap  suds. 

Paraffin — Scrape  off  the  excess  and  wash  with  hot  soapy  water. 

Perspiration — Wash  with  soapy  water  and  bleach  in  the  sun- 
shine. 


LAUNDEEIXG  RECIPES  245 

Sugar — Wash  in  water  or  alcohol. 

Tea— Pour  boiling  water  through  the  fabric  and  wash  in  cold 
water. 

\Yax — Scrape  off  the  excess  and  place  a  blotting  paper  over 
and  beneath  the  stain.    Iron  with  a  warm  iron. 


CHAPTER  3 
LABOR-SAVING  DEVICES 

Washing  Machines 

Washing  machines  furnish  the  mechanical  force  needed  to  re- 
move soil  from  clothing.  Everything  else  must  be  supplied  by 
the  homemaker. 

Dirt  is  held  in  clothing  by  two  substances,  grease  and  albu- 
minous materials,  largely  skin  excretions.  The  first  purpose  of 
washing  is  to  dissolve  these  substances  so  the  particles  of  soil  will 
be  loosened. 

Grease  is  dissolved  by  soapy  water  and  for  this  reason  soap  is 
used  in  washing.  The  albuminous  materials  are  dissolved  most 
easily  in  tepid  water;  they,  like  the  albumin  in  egg  white,  are 
set  by  hot  water. 

If  the  washing  machine  is  to  accomplish  excellent  results,  the 
water  placed  in  it  should  not  be  scalding  hot,  but  tepid,  and  it 
should  contain  an  abundance  of  soap  suds.  A  good  way  to 
judge  the  temperature  of  the  water  is  to  have  it  just  hot  enough 
that  the  hands  may  be  placed  in  it  with  comfort.  The  operation 
of  the  machine  forces  the  soapy  water  back  and  forth  through 
the  meshes  of  the  fabrics,  in  this  way  dissolving  the  materials 
holding  the  soil. 

Types  of  Machines 

There  are  four  kinds  of  washing  machines,  all  of  which  may 
be  driven  by  hand,  electricity  or  gasoline  engines.  Vacuum 
machines  have  inverted  cups  or  funnels  which  cleanse  by  moving 
up  and  down,  forcing  water  through  the  fibers  of  the  cloth.  In 
the  cylinder  type  the  garments  are  placed  in  the  cylinder  of 
metal  or  wood.  As  this  revolves  within  the  tub,  the  clothes  are 
lifted  out  of  the  water  and  dropped  back  into  it  so  the  water 
moves  back  and  forth  through  the  clothing. 

246 


LABOE-SAVING  DEVICES  247 

The  tub  of  the  oscillator  machine  rocks  back  and  forth  like  a 
cradle,  this  motion  forcing  the  soapy  suds  through  the  fabrics 
being  washed.  Then  there  is  the  dolly  type,  so  called  on  account 
of  the  agitator  or  disc  known  as  the  dolly  which  fits  down  on  the 
clothes.  This  grasps  the  garments  while  turning  and  reversing, 
accomplishing  the  cleaning  by  this  movement  of  the  water  back 
and  forth  through  the  clothing.  The  tubs  of  these  machines 
usually  have  corrugated  sides. 

Machines  Rinse  Efficiently 

Clothes  are  first  placed  in  the  machine  that  the  dirt  in  them 
may  be  loosened.  After  this  process,  which  is  commonly  called 
rubbing,  the  garments  are  rinsed  to  remove  loosened  particles 
of  dirt.  Since  the  water  needs  to  be  forced  through  the  fabrics 
in  this  process,  the  mechanical  force  of  the  machine  gives  better 
results  than  rinsing  the  clothes  by  hand  in  a  tub.  Rinsing 
water  should  be  hot,  too  warm  for  the  hands  to  be  inserted  with 
comfort. 

After  the  clothes  are  rinsed,  they  are  put  through  a  bluing 
water  and  then  they  are  hung  on  the  line.  If  considerable 
moisture  is  left  in  them,  the  clothes  will  be  more  nearly  white 
when  dry.  The  water,  wind  and  sunshine  provide  for  the  proc- 
ess of  oxidation,  nature's  way  of  bleaching. 

The  washing  machine  is  a  saver  of  human  strength  and  the 
garments.  With  its  use  rubbing  on  the  board  is  not  necessary, 
provided  moderately  warm  or  tepid,  but  not  hot,  soapy  water  is 
used  for  the  washing  and  hot  water  is  used  for  the  rinsing,  which, 
of  course,  must  be  forced  back  and  forth  through  the  clothes 
until  all  traces  of  soil  and  soap  are  removed. 

Dehydrating  Foods 

Dehydration  is  the  outgrowth  of  drying  foods.  It  is  an  im- 
provement over  the  older  method  of  food  preservation.  In 
drying,  foodstufi^s  are  either  exposed  'to  the  direct  heat  of  the 
sun  or  are  placed  in  an  evaporator  which  sets  over  the  kitchen 
range.  In  some  cases  the  drying  process  is  hastened  by  oven 
heat.  All  of  these  methods  of  expelling  the  moisture  rupture 
the  plant  cells.    This  allows  the  volatile  materials  to  escape  with 


248     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

the  moisture.  It  is  in  this  way  that  the  taste  and  appearance 
of  the  foods  are  changed  and  in  addition  all  the  volatile  food 
value  is  lost.  Dried  fruits  and  vegetables  are  cooked  to  some 
extent  in  their  own  juices  during  the  drying. 

Dehydrators  are  constructed  so  that  nothing  but  the  moisture 
is  driven  off  during  dehydration.  This  device  has  slots  in  the 
bottom  through  which  air  is  admitted.  Above  these  are  several 
open-mesh  wire  shelves  on  which  the  products  to  be  dehydrated, 
after  being  sliced  or  cut  in  small  pieces,  are  placed.  A  kero- 
sene burner  at  the  bottom  warms  the  air,  thereby  hastening  the 
evaporation  of  the  moisture.  To  make  certain  that  the  right 
temperature  is  maintained  all  the  time  so  the  cells  will  not  be 
broken  by  too  much  heat,  a  thermometer  hangs  in  front  of  the 
shelves  where  it  may  be  seen  through  the  doors.  The  tempera- 
ture of  this  device  is  no  more  difficult  to  regulate  than  is  that 
of  an  incubator. 

The  heated  air  rises  in  and  around  the  food  on  the  shelves 
and  escapes  through  an  opening  in  the  top.  Fresh  air  enters 
through  the  openings  in  the  bottom  and  this  continual  circula- 
tion of  air  makes  it  possible  to  dehydrate  foods  in  a  sanitary 
manner  in  from  10  to  12  hours. 

Dehydrated  foods  are  stored  in  paraffin  coated  paper  cartons, 
glass  fruit  jars  wrapped  in  paper  or  heavy  paper  bags.  The  sur- 
prising factor  is  that  when  the  foods  are  cooked,  after  being 
soaked  several  hours  in  cold  water,  they  taste  and  appear  much 
like  fresh  products.  They  are  a  great  economy  in  storage  space 
because  the  removal  of  the  water  decreases  the  bulk  of  foods 
greatly.  One  pound  of  dehydrated  pumpkin,  for  example,  makes 
18  pumpkin  pies  of  ordinary  size. 

Self-Freezing  Ice  Cream  Freezers 

Among  the  labor-saving  devices  on  the  market  are  the  vacuum 
ice  cream  freezers  which  have  no  crank  to  be  turned.  The  cream 
mixture  is  simply  poured  into  the  freezer  after  the  ice  and  salt 
have  been  placed  in  a  separate  compartment,  and  there  is  no 
stirring  during  the  freezing  process. 

The  construction  of  this  appliance  is  similar  to  that  of  a  fire- 
less  cooker.  When  making  ice  cream,  the  freezer  is  inverted  and 
the  ice  and  salt  mixture  are  placed  in  their  compartment.     A 


LABOR-SAVING  DEVICES  249 

cupful  of  cold  water  is  added  to  start  the  melting  and  then  the 
lid  is  adjusted.  The  freezer  is  turned  right  side  up  and  the  ice 
cream  mixture  is  poured  in  its  compartment.  The  lid  is  ad- 
justed tightly.  The  walls  of  the  freezer  are  constructed  with 
a  vacuum  space  so  that  it  is  impossible  for  the  cold  temperature 
provided  by  the  melting  ice  to  escape. 

An  old  theory  that  ice  cream  will  be  coarse  grained  if  it  is  not 
stirred  with  a  dasher  during  the  freezing  has  been  upset  by  this 
appliance.  Experience  shows  that  a  thin  watery  cream  mixture 
produces  a  cream  coarse  in  texture  while  a  rich  creamy  one  is  a 
velvety,  fine  ice  cream  when  frozen. 

Long-handled  Plunger 

When  one  does  not  have  a  washing  machine,  a  plunger  may 
be  used  to  advantage.  This  device  consists  of  an  inverted  fun- 
nel or  cone,  a  vacuum  cup,  fastened  on  to  a  handle  like  a  broom- 
stick. The  tub  partly  filled  with  soiled  clothing  and  soapy, 
lukewarm  water  is  set  on  the  floor.  Then  the  plunger  is  pushed 
up  and  down  on  the  clothing,  the  movement  being  the  same  as 
that  of  a  churn  dasher.  This  vacuum  cup  forces  the  soapy  water 
back  and  forth  through  the  fabrics,  loosening  the  dirt  in  them. 
In  rinsing  the  process  is  the  same  except  that  the  washed  cloth- 
ing is  placed  in  clean  hot  water,  instead  of  soap  suds.  The  ease 
with  which  the  plunger  is  operated  depends  on  how  successful 
the  worker  is  in  keeping  his  back  straight.  Even  strokes  cleanse 
more  quickly  than  uneven  ones.  This  appliance  is  especially 
helpful  in  laundering  blankets,  quilts,  overalls  and  other  heavy 
articles  without  a  washing  machine. 

Kerosene  Stoves 

Although  kerosene  stoves  are  used  throughout  the  year,  they 
are  especially  helpful  in  the  hot  weather  when  the  heat  of  the 
range  is  objectionable.  If  they  are  given  a  position  in  the  kitchen 
where  breezes  cannot  blow  upon  them  very  often,  they  seldom 
smoke.  There  are  two  types  of  kerosene  stoves;  those  which 
have  wicks  and  those  that  are  wickless.  It  is  important  that 
those  without  wicks  be  placed  on  a  level  foundation.  When  the 
floor  slopes  a  little,  pieces  of  cardboard  or  tiny  blocks  may  be 
placed  under  the  legs  of  the  stove  to  level  it. 


250  THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EXILE  BOOK 

Every  oil  stove  gives  better  satisfaction  if  kept  clean.  It  takes 
only  five  or  ten  minutes  every  morning  to  keep  it  in  this  condi- 
tion. Soap  and  water  are  the  best  cleansing  agents,  for  in  a  rich 
suds  every  part  of  the  stove  may  be  washed.  A  small  brush  is 
helpful  in  scrubbing  the  corners  a  cloth  cannot  reach. 

A  small  whisk  broom  is  efficient  in  cleaning  the  asbestos  ring, 
the  metal  jackets  and  spreaders  in  the  wickless  stove.  By  gen- 
tle brushing  the  small  particles  of  dirt  which  might  interfere 
with  the  flame  are  removed.  \ATien  the  stove  has  a  wick,  it 
must  be  kept  smooth  and  even.  Trimming  with  scissors  brings 
disaster  because  it  is  not  possible  to  cut  it  evenly.  If  the  wick 
is  new,  it  is  well  to  let  the  uneven  flame  bum  a  few  minutes 
until  the  edge  becomes  well  charred.  The  charred  surface  may 
be  packed  down  and  made  even.  This  is  done  best  by  placing 
a  piece  of  soft  tissue  paper  over  the  finger  and  then  pressing 
down  gently.  Wicks  cared  for  in  this  way  will  last  much  longer 
and  give  better  results  than  if  they  are  trimmed  with  scissors. 

If  the  flame  becomes  low  when  there  is  plenty  of  oil  in  the 
supply  tank,  the  pipe  which  carries  the  oil  to  the  burner  is 
clogged.  To  clean  this  remove  the  cap  at  the  end  of  the  pipe 
and  force  oil  through  until  it  flows  freely. 

There  is  a  type  of  kerosene  stove  with  an  oven  attached.  In 
these  stoves  the  baking  is  practically  the  same  as  in  an  ordinary 
cook  stove.  Most  models,  however,  have  separate  ovens.  These 
are  not  heavily  insulated,  and  for  this  reason  they  heat  and  bake 
rapidly,  while  when  there  is  insulation  to  be  heated  considerable 
kerosene  is  burned  before  the  oven  is  ready  for  baking.  It  is 
advisable  to  buy  the  oven  made  for  the  particular  type  of  stove 
being  used.  The  main  precaution,  of  course,  is,  if  the  flame 
comes  near  the  top  of  the  stove,  that  the  floor  of  the  oven  be 
elevated  at  least  six  inches  to  give  adequate  space  for  combustion. 

Kerosene  Water  Heaters 

Oil  heaters  for  the  hot-water  tank  are  a  welcome  piece  of 
equipment  in  homes  where  there  is  running  water.  Its  care  is 
similar  to  that  of  a  kerosene  stove.  Drafts  should  be  avoided 
and  all  parts  should  be  kept  clean.  The  wicks  will  last  longer  in 
the  heaters  and  in  the  stoves  if  the  supply  tank  is  kept  well  filled 
with  oil.     When  there  is  no  oil,  the  wick  burns  in  its  place. 


LABOE-SAVING  DEVICES  251 

Pressure  Cookers 

The  pressure  cooker  is  nothing  more  than  a  steam-tight  kettle. 
The  enclosed  steam  creates  pressure  and  the  pressure  raises  the 
temperature,  cooking  food  quickly.  In  this  kettle  any  food  which 
is  to  be  boiled  or  steamed  can  be  cooked  rapidly  with  a  great 
saving  of  time  and  fuel.  Foods  which  must  be  cooked  a  long 
time  ordinarily,  such  as  chicken  and  beans,  may  be  steamed  or 
boiled  in  the  pressure  cooker  in  a  few  minutes  and  then  browned 
in  the  oven  afterward. 

These  cookers  are  not  complicated.  First,  there  is  a  steam 
gauge  which  registers  the  pressure.  This  must  be  kept  clean 
and  dry.  Then  there  is  a  pet-cock  to  let  out  the  steam  when  the 
cooking  is  completed.  It  is  wise  to  leave  the  pet-cock  open  when 
the  food  starts  to  cook,  giving  the  cold  air  in  the  cooker  a  chance 
to  escape,  but  when  the  steam  starts  to  come  out,  it  is  closed. 

The  safety  valve  lets  off  steam.  It  works  automatically, 
making  the  utensil  safe.  To  keep  it  in  order,  loosen  the  valve 
when  not  in  use  so  the  moisture  will  not  corrode  it.  If  it  leaks 
steam,  a  good  cleaning,  scouring  and  oiling  of  all  the  parts  is 
needed.  When  the  cooking  begins,  the  safety  valve  must  be 
closed.  The  cooker  must  always  contain  water  when  it  is  heated 
or  it  may  crack  or  bulge.  Usually  1/4  cupful  of  water  is  suffi- 
cient. After  the  food  has  been  cooked  long  enough,  the  lid  must 
not  be  opened  until  the  steam  has  been  let  out  through  the  pet- 
cock. 

Since  most  cookers  have  two  pans  which  fit  into  them,  different 
kinds  of  foods  may  be  cooked  at  the  same  time.  For  instance, 
meat  might  be  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  cooker  and  the  two 
pans,  one  holding  a  vegetable  and  the  other  rice  pudding,  could 
be  cooking  above.  If  one  wishes  to  have  the  meat  browned,  it 
can  be  seared  in  the  bottom  of  the  cooker  in  a  little  fat  before 
water  is  added  and  the  lid  is  adjusted.  Potatoes  can  be  cooked 
with  the  meat.  It  takes  from  30  to  40  minutes  to  cook  a  meat 
stew  in  the  cooker  while  3  hours  are  required  for  the  same  process 
on  top  of  the  stove.  There  is  a  saving  of  time  comparable  to 
this  in  cooking  all  foods.  Even  Boston  Baked  Beans  may  be 
prepared  in  50  minutes.  The  beans  are  cooked  in  the  pressure 
cooker  25  minutes  and  then  they  are  browned  in  a  hot  oven  the 
other  25  minutes. 


252     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

Entire  meals  may  be  cooked  in  the  pressure  cooker.  Here  are 
some  of  the  combinations  which  may  be  cooked  at  the  same  time : 
fried  chicken,  steamed  potatoes  and  buttered  carrots;  Swiss 
steak,  steamed  squash  and  potatoes;  ham  stew  and  rice  pudding; 
and  baked  beans,  steamed  brown  bread  and  apple  sauce. 


Fireless  Cookers 

The  fireless  cooker  is  a  device  for  conserving  the  heat  of 
cooking  foods;  therefore  it  saves  fuel.  It  also  is  economical  of 
the  homemaker's  time  and  energy.  Using  it  in  the  summer 
helps  to  keep  the  kitchen  cool. 

This  appliance  consists  of  one  or  more  cooking  compartments 
fitted  with  utensils  and  insulated  to  retain  the  heat  of  foods 
introduced,  thus  finishing  their  cooking  in  their  own  heat. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  manage  a  fireless  cooker  because  the  foods 
do  not  spoil  if  over-cooked  with  the  constantly  lowering  tem- 
perature. If  the  food  should  be  underdone,  it  may  be  reheated 
and  placed  in  the  cooker  again.  Less  water  is  used  in  this  type 
of  cookery,  since  there  is  little  evaporation  after  the  food  is 
placed  in  the  fireless.  The  radiators  of  soapstone  or  metal  are 
heated  on  the  stove  and  placed  in  the  cooker,  then  the  heated 
food  is  added  and  the  lid  is  closed.  Frequently  a  heated  radiator 
is  placed  on  top  of  the  container  holding  the  food ;  this  is  always 
done  when  baking.  The  insulated  walls  retain  the  heat  of  the 
food  and  the  radiators  so  that  the  foods  within  cook  slowly. 

A  Homemade  Fireless 

A  fireless  cooker  of  considerable  merit  can  be  made  in  the 
home.  A  tin  lard  can,  wood  candy  box,  any  tightly  built  box  or 
an  old  trunk  may  be  used  for  the  outer  container  in  which 
insulation  and  a  utensil  for  holding  the  food  are  placed.  A  tin 
or  agate  bucket  with  straight  sides  and  a  tightly  fitting  cover  is 
suitable  for  holding  the  food  to  be  cooked. 

The  packing  between  the  lard  can  or  outer  container  and  the 
bucket  which  is  to  hold  the  food  should  be  a  poor  conductor  of 
heat.  Among  the  materials  which  are  usually  available  in  most 
farm  homes  for  use  in  this  way  are:  excelsior,  shredded  news- 


LABOR-SAVING  DEVICES  253 

papers,  straw,  hay,  lint  cotton  and  wool.  The  lard  can  is  lined 
with  sheet  asbestos  about  %  inch  thick.  The  nest  or  well,  as  it 
is  called,  in  which  the  bucket  of  food  is  to  set  is  also  lined  with 
this  asbestos.  The  packing  is  placed  between.  If  possible,  have 
at  least  4  inches  of  this  insulation  between  the  lard  can  and  the 
bucket.  If  two  wells  or  nests  are  to  be  made,  such  as  is  the  case 
when  an  old  trunk  is  used  for  the  outer  container,  6  inches  of 
packing  should  be  placed  between  the  two  nests. 

First  Hne  the  lard  can  or  other  utensil  used  in  its  place  with 
asbestos,  then  place  4  or  more  inches  of  the  packing  in  the 
bottom.  Make  the  nest  of  asbestos,  being  sure  that  it  is  large 
enough  so  the  bucket  can  be  placed  in  it  easily.  Set  this  in  the 
lard  can  and  stuff  in  the  packing  firmly  between  the  nest  and  the 
sides  of  the  can.  Make  a  collar  of  sheet  asbestos  to  fit  between 
the  sides  of  the  can  and  the  nest,  fitting  this  over  the  top  to  hide 
the  packing.  This  should  fit  tightly.  When  this  is  done,  make 
a  cushion  of  muslin  and  fill  with  the  packing.  This  should  be 
4  inches  thick  and  it  is  fitted  on  top  of  the  fireless  cooker,  filling 
the  space  between  the  top  of  the  bucket  and  the  asbestos  collar 
and  the  top  of  the  lard  can.  Place  the  cover  on  the  lard  can  or 
other  container  and  the  fireless  cooker  is  made.  In  this  type  of 
cooker  the  food  is  heated  to  the  boiling  point  in  the  bucket  and 
placed  in  the  nest.  The  insulation  retains  the  heat  which  com- 
pletes the  cookery.  No  radiators  are  used.  The  homemade 
cooker  is  adapted  to  cooking  cereals,  stewed  and  boiled  foods; 
the  commercial  devices  with  their  discs  which  may  be  heated  and 
placed  under  and  above  the  foods  may  also  be  used  for  baking 
and  roasting. 

Layer  Steamers 

Steamers  on  the  market  nowadays  have  two  pans  which  fit 
into  them  above  the  water  so  that  two  or  more  kinds  of  foods 
may  be  steamed  at  the  same  time.  While  this  is  being  done, 
another  food  may  be  stewing  or  boiling  in  the  bottom  part  of  the 
steamer  kettle.  When  kerosene  or  gas  stoves  are  used,  this  type 
of  a  steam  kettle  reduces  the  amount  of  fuel  used  in  preparing 
a  meal.  In  addition,  they  provide  a  saving  of  food  value.  In 
boiling  foods,  especially  the  vegetables,  some  of  the  food  value 
dissolves  in  the  liquid  in  which  they  cook.     If  this  liquor  is 


254     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

drained  off,  it  is  frequently  thrown  away  so  the  food  elements  in 
it  are  lost.  Steamed  foods  retain  all  of  their  nutritive  value 
because  they  are  not  cooked  in  water. 

Care  of  Refrigerators 

Three  factors  are  essential  in  caring  for  refrigerators.  They 
must  be  kept  cool;,  dry  and  clean.  Coolness  is  obtained  in  most 
cases  by  the  use  of  ice.  When  ice  is  placed  in  its  compartment, 
the  air  about  it  becomes  cold.  Since  cold  air  is  heavier  than 
warm  air,  the  cold  air  falls  down  around  the  shelves  containing 
the  food,  absorbing  the  heat.  The  warm  air  rises  and  passes  into 
the  ice  chamber  where  it  becomes  cold  and  heavy.  Then  it  falls 
to  the  bottom  of  the  refrigerator.  It  is  this  continual  circulation 
of  cold  and  warm  air  that  keeps  the  food  in  a  refrigerator  cold. 

The  old  belief  that  it  is  economical  to  wrap  paper  or  a  blanket 
about  the  ice  in  the  refrigerator  to  make  it  last  longer  is  incor- 
rect. It  takes  the  warm  air  much  longer  to  reach  the  ice  to  be 
cooled,  which  interferes  with  the  circulation  of  the  warm  and 
cold  air. 

Butter,  cream,  milk  and  water  should  be  kept  on  the  lower 
shelf,  as  should  other  foods  requiring  a  low  temperature.  The 
bottom  shelf  is  the  coldest  part  of  the  refrigerator.  Meats, 
vegetables  and  fruits  may  be  placed  on  the  next  shelf  above  and 
the  top  shelf  should  be  reserved  for  cheese  and  other  foods  with 
a  strong  odor.  The  warm  air  takes  up  these  odors  as  it  rises  and 
carries  them  to  the  ice  chamber  from  which  they  should  escape 
through  the  drain  pipe.  It  is  unwise  to  keep  food  directly  on 
the  ice  unless  tightly  covered  for  it  will  absorb  these  odors. 
Moreover,  it  is  cooler  in  other  parts  of  the  refrigerator. 

Dryness  is  essential  in  refrigeration  because  the  micro- 
organisms which  grow  in  foods  causing  them  to  spoil  develop 
best  in  warm,  moist  and  unclean  places.  Poor  circulation  of  air 
or  washing  the  refrigerator  w^ith  warm  water  so  steam  forms  on 
the  walls  makes  the  refrigerator  moist. 

The  best  way  to  keep  the  refrigerator  clean  is  to  wipe  up 
every  spot  with  a  damp  cloth  as  soon  as  anything  is  spilled. 
Once  a  week  a  thorough  washing  may  be  given  with  a  little  cool 
water  to  which  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  has  been  added. 
The  washed  surface  is  dried  with  a  clean  towel.    The  drain  pipe 


LABOE-SAVING  DEVICES  255 

can  be  taken  out  and  washed  with  hot  soapy  water  and  a  long- 
handled  brush.  It  is  cooled  before  being  placed  back  in  the 
refrigerator. 

Making  an  Iceless  Refrigerator 

Have  a  box  made  3I/2  feet  high,  2  feet  wide  and  18  inches 
deep.  The  top  and  bottom  should  be  solid  and  the  sides  of 
screen  wire.  It  is  best  to  use  copper  or  galvanized  wire  since  it 
does  not  rust.  The  front  should  be  hinged  to  make  a  door. 
Put  in  two  adjustable  shelves  from  12  to  15  inches  apart,  and 
have  these  made  of  slats  or  of  the  wire  screening  fastened  on  a 
wooden  frame.  On  top  of  this  set  a  bread  pan  about  16  or  18 
inches  square  or  use  a  shallow  dish  pan.  Stand  the  whole  box 
in  another  shallow  pan.  Paint  the  pans  and  box  white  and, 
when  dry,  apply  a  coat  of  white  enamel. 

Then  make  a  covering  of  white  cotton  flannel  to  fit  over  the 
box.  An  old  blanket  or  grain  sacks  sewed  together  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  flannel.  Use  the  smooth  side  of  the  flannel  on  the 
outside  and  fasten  the  covering  with  hooks  and  eyes.  Sew  one 
row  of  hooks  on  the  door  near  the  fastening  and  another  just 
opposite  the  door  so  that  the  hems  will  project  over  and  keep  out 
the  warm  aip-thaTbtherwise  might  enter.  Fasten  the  covering  at 
the  top^.a:^well  as  at  the  side.  Two  double  strips  one-half  the 
wkttn  of  the  side  should  be  sewed  to  the  top  of  each  side  and 
ftUowed  to  extend  over  two  or  three  inches  into  the  pan  on  the 
top  which  contains  water. 

Set  this  refrigerator  outdoors  in  a  shady  place  or  in  the  kitchen 
under  a  window  where  there  is  a  good  circulation  of  air.  Keep 
the  wicks  in  the  supply  of  fresh  water  in  the  upper  pan.  This 
type  of  refrigerator  gives  best  results  on  dry,  hot  days.  It  is  not 
good  for  use  in  extremely  damp  weather  or  at  the  seashore  since 
there  is  not  enough  evaporation  to  cool  the  food  within  on  the 
shelves. 

The  Kitchen's  Dumb  Waiter 

A  dumb  waiter  between  the  kitchen  and  the  basement  saves 
many  steps.  These  shelves  which  are  built  like  those  of  a  cup- 
board are  pulled  back  and  forth.  They  are  operated  by  a  cord 
and  a  counter  weight.     To  be  of  the  greatest  use  the  shelves 


256     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

should  be  wide  enough  so  that  crocks  and  other  large  utensils 
may  rest  on  them  and  no  farther  apart  than  it  is  necessary  to 
have  them  to  accommodate  the  articles  to  be  carried  on  them. 

The  shaft  which  extends  into  the  basement  should  be  provided 
with  a  screen  door  if  possible,  so  the  food  lowered  into  the  base- 
ment in  the  waiter  to  be  kept  cool  will  be  protected.  For  a 
woman  of  average  height  the  upper  door  for  the  shelves  should 
be  about  three  feet  from  the  kitchen  floor. 

Mguking  a  Sponge  Box 

In  the  cold  weather  it  is  frequently  very  difficult  for  the 
housekeeper  to  find  a  place  to  set  the  bread  sponge  at  night  so  it 
will  not  chill.  A  sponge  box  may  be  made  without  much  expense 
or  labor  for  this  purpose  and  it  is  the  best  way  to  keep  the  bread 
sponge  at  the  right  temperature. 

A  box  26x20x20  inches  is  a  good  size.  In  this  about  10 
inches  from  the  bottom  a  shelf  is  made  of  slats  which  rests  on 
cleats  fastened  to  the  sides  of  the  box.  Four  inches  above  this  a 
shelf  constructed  in  the  same  way  as  the  lower  one  is  inserted. 

Under  the  lower  shelf  a  sheet  of  galvanized  iron  slightly 
wider  than  the  shelf  is  inserted.  It  is  curved  in  appearance  when 
in  position.  This  helps  to  distribute  the  heat  from  a  lamp  which 
sets  in  the  bottom  of  the  box  and  to  keep  the  heat  from  scorching 
the  lower  shelf.  The  door  is  on  hinges  and  is  fastened  with  a 
hook  and  staple. 

Bore  several  holes  in  the  top  of  the  box  and  the  upper  parts 
of  the  sides.  In  the  center  of  the  top,  bore  a  hole  and  fasten  in 
it  securely  a  cork  through  which  a  hole  large  enough  to  admit  a 
chemical  thermometer  has  been  made.  Use  a  Fahrenheit  ther- 
mometer, one  that  will  register  as  high  as  100  degrees. 

If  a  kerosene  lamp  is  to  be  used  to  heat  the  sponge  box,  line 
the  box  with  sheets  of  asbestos  or  tin  to  avoid  danger  of  fire.  A 
16-candle  power  electric  light  will  provide  sufficient  heat  for  the 
box  and  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  line  the  box  if  this  is  used. 

The  bread  sponge  is  set  on  the  top  shelf,  a  shallow  pan  of 
water  on  the  lower  shelf  to  keep  the  air  moist  and  a  small  lamp 
or  electric  light  bulb  below.  Keep  the  temperature  around  65  or 
70  degrees  for  sponge  standing  overnight  and  at  85  degrees  for 
dough  after  it  has  been  kneaded  in  the  morning.    If  the  bread 


LABOE-SAVING  DEVICES  257 

is  made  in  the  quick  way,  that  is,  if  the  sponge  is  set  in  the 
morning,  have  the  temperature  of  the  box  85  degrees. 

Turning  the  flame  of  the  lamp  up  or  down  or  placing  cold  or 
hot  water  in  the  pan  on  the  second  shelf  changes  the  temperature 
if  one  wishes  to  do  so. 

Bread  Mixer 

A  bread  mixer  in  which  the  dough  can  be  kneaded  in  3  minutes 
by  turning  a  crank  instead  of  15  minutes  by  hand  is  a  valuable 
labor  saver.  This  device  consists  of  a  bucket-like  utensil  with  a 
curved,  dull  blade  which  is  turned  by  a  handle.  This  mixes  the 
sponge  and  kneads  the  bread.  The  sponge  and  dough  can  be 
allowed  to  rise  in  it  and  with  its  use  any  member  of  the  family 
can  knead  the  dough  just  as  well  as  the  homemaker  can.  In 
buying  a  mixer  the  amount  of  dough  to  be  kneaded  in  it  should 
be  taken  into  consideration.  If  large  batches  of  bread  are  made 
at  a  time,  a  large  mixer  is  desirable,  while  if  small  bakings  are 
made,  a  small  one  gives  better  results.  It  is  impossible  for  a 
huge  mixer  to  knead  dough  for  one  or  two  loaves  efficiently. 

Cake  Mixers 

Cake  mixers  are  constructed  much  the  same  as  bread  mixers 
only  they  are  smaller  in  size.  There  is  an  electric  cake  mixer 
which  may  be  used  in  stirring  up  one  cake,  but  those  turned  by 
hand  are  especially  adapted  to  the  mixing  of  more  than  one  cake 
at  the  same  time. 

Self-Heating  Irons 

By  the  use  of  self -heating  irons,  many  steps  between  the  stove 
and  the  ironing  board  are  saved.  When  the  house  is  wired  with 
electricity,  of  course,  the  electrically  heated  iron  is  desirable. 
Irons  heated  by  gasoline,  alcohol,  kerosene  and  gas  are  also 
convenient  and  they  are  satisfactory  if  drafts  that  might  blow 
the  flame  are  avoided. 

Ironing  Machines 

There  are  two  kinds  of  ironing  machines,  those  with  heated 
roUs  and  those  with  cold  rolls.  The  first  kind  is  made  with 
padded  and  covered  rolls  or  cylinders  which  revolve  against  a 


258     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  KULE  BOOK 

heated  plate  or  shoe.  The  padded  roll  takes  the  place  of  the 
ironing  board  and  the  heated  shoe  of  the  iron.  Some  ironers 
have  special  arrangements  made  for  ironing  rufSes,  but  best 
results  on  the  padded  rolls  are  obtained  in  ironing  flat  pieces. 
The  ironer  with  cold  rolls  smoothes  out  the  wrinkles  by  heavy- 
pressure.  Ironing  machines  are  operated  by  hand  or  electricity 
and  the  rolls  are  heated  by  gasoline,  gas  or  electricity. 

Vacuum  Cleaners 

Vacuum  cleaners  suck  up  fine  dust  and  dirt  on  and  in  carpets 
and  rugs.  Many  of  the  cleaners  also  have  brushes  which  take  up 
lint,  thread  and  all  types  of  coarse  dirt.  The  dust  and  dirt  is 
forced  by  the  suction  into  a  bag  so  that  practically  no  dust  is 
scattered  about  the  room.  As  a  rule  the  best  vacuum  cleaners 
are  run  by  electricity  or  motor,  although  the  hand  cleaners  which 
are  not  too  heavy  to  be  used  with  ease  are  very  good. 

Carpet  Sweepers 

Most  carpet  sweepers  remove  the  surface  dirt  and  dust  on  rugs 
and  carpets.  There  are  a  few  hand-power  sweepers,  which  are  in 
reality  a  combination  of  the  sweeper  and  the  vacuum  cleaner, 
that  suck  up  some  of  the  dust  as  well  as  removing  the  surface 
dirt. 

Long-handled  Dust  Pan 

If  a  long-handled  dust  pan  is  used,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the 
housewife  to  stoop  when  sweeping  the  collected  dirt  into  the  pan. 
An  excellent  type  is  the  one  which  has  a  lid  that  closes  auto- 
matically as  the  pan  is  lifted.  This  keeps  the  dirt  from  being 
spilled  or  falling  out. 

Wall  Brushes 

Much  climbing  and  stretching  is  avoided  in  cleaning  the 
ceilings  and  w^alls  by  the  use  of  long-handled  wall  brushes.  The 
brush  part  may  be  of  fine  bristles  which  are  soft,  lamb's  wool  or 
loops  of  soft  cotton  twine.  When  such  a  brush  is  not  available, 
the  best  substitute  is  a  cotton  flannel  bag  slipped  over  the  bristles 
of  the  broom.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  scratch  the  walls  with 
the  bristles,  that  is,  not  to  exert  too  much  pressure  on  the  broom. 


LABOK-SAVING  DEVICES  259 

Floor  Mops 

For  washing  a  floor  the  ordinar}^  mop  handle  with  a  loosely- 
woven  piece  of  cloth  fastened  in  it  is  satisfactory.  A  dust  mop 
for  removing  the  fine  particles  of  dust  from  the  floors  saves  one 
from  bending  over  to  wipe  up  dusty  patches.  Some  of  these  are 
constructed  with  soft  bristles  and  others  with  loops  of  soft  cotton 
twine  which  will  reach  the  corners  and  remove  the  dust  from 
them.  Sometimes  a  soft  cloth  moistened  slightly  with  liquid 
wax  or  oil  is  tied  over  the  dust  mop  and  rubbed  over  the  floor  to 
brighten  the  finish.  Care  needs  to  be  taken  never  to  apply  too 
much  wax  or  floor  oil  since  they  leave  a  surface  which  collects 
dust  and  dirt,  and  not  to  use  oil  and  wax  on  the  same  floor. 
They  will  not  mix. 

When  the  floors  of  several  rooms  must  be  waxed,  a  weighted 
brush  with  short  bristles  is  used.  This  rubs  in  the  paste  wax  and 
polishes  the  wood.  Such  a  brush  should  never  be  used  on  an 
oiled  floor  unless  it  is  covered  with  a  heavy  piece  of  flannel. 

Brushes  for  Cleaning 

There  are  brushes  adapted  to  the  cleaning  of  practically  every 
piece  of  household  equipment.  There  are  stiff-bristled  scrub 
brushes  for  cleaning  vegetables,  table-tops  and  other  surfaces 
and  long-handled  scrub  brushes  for  scouring  floors.  Eadiator 
pipes  may  be  cleaned  by  the  aid  of  a  long-handled  and  narrow 
brush.  A  narrow  brush  with  a  flexible  handle  cleanses  the  drain 
pipe  of  the  refrigerator  with  the  aid  of  soap  suds  and  hot  water. 
Then  there  are  narrow  brushes  with  similar  wire  handles  for  use 
in  cleaning  out  bottles,  vinegar  cruets,  and  vases.  Soft  bristles 
clean  silverware,  stiffer  ones  remove  the  soil  from  sinks,  bathtubs 
and  lavatories.  Phonograph  records  can  scarcely  be  cleaned  with- 
out the  use  of  soft  bristles.  The  homemaker^s  hands  are  pro- 
tected greatly  by  the  use  of  brushes  and  the  bristles  are  much 
more  efficient  in  reaching  corners  and  crevices  than  a  piece  of 
smooth  cloth  is. 

Cooking  Utensils 

In  buying  cooking  utensils  the  prudent  homemaker  considers 
for  what  they  are  to  be  used.  Kettles  or  pans  in  which  vegetables 
are  to  be  boiled  are  most  satisfactory  if  the  cover  rests  on  a 


260     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

standard  about  an  inch  above  the  top  of  the  utensil  or  if  the  lid 
rests  loosely  on  top.  This  permits  the  water  to  evaporate  quickly. 
Much  food  value  is  destroyed  if  large  amounts  of  water  in  which 
the  vegetables  are  boiled  is  thrown  away.  If  cooked  down,  this 
may  be  served  with  the  vegetable  dish. 

The  ideal  potato  kettle  is  one  equipped  with  a  cover  which 
strains  the  contents  without  danger  of  spilling  the  cooked  vege- 
table. When  this  is  not  available,  a  strainer  which  resembles  a 
small  kettle  only  that  it  is  perforated  and  has  a  long  handle  is 
satisfactory. 

Cabbage  and  onions  and  all  other  strongly  flavored  food  are 
best  cooked  in  a  flaring-sided  pan  so  the  water  in  which  they  are 
cooked  evaporates  quickly.  No  lid  is  used.  Frying  requires 
greater  heat  than  other  types  of  cookery  so  iron  and  aluminum 
utensils  are  best  for  this  purpose. 

The  most  important  point  in  selecting  the  frying  pan  is  its 
size.  The  same  is  true  of  percolators.  It  is  impossible  to  make 
2  cupfuls  of  good  coffee  in  a  large  percolator.  Mixing  bowls  are 
an  essential  piece  of  equipment.  Those  of  enameled  ware  or 
other  light-weight  materials  are  satisfactory.  As  to  shape,  the 
deep  bowl  with  a  conical  bottom  is  desirable  since  a  small 
amount  of  food  can  be  dealt  with  in  it  as  well  as  a  larger  amount. 
In  other  words,  the  depth  gives  the  capacity  so  that  8  eggs  may 
be  beaten  in  the  bowl  while  the  conical  bottom  permits  the 
beating  of  1  egg  with  just  as  much  ease. 

Casseroles  are  gaining  in  popularity  in  American  homes. 
These  bake  dishes  may  be  of  china,  glass^  aluminum,  steel  or 
iron.  If  the  china,  earthenware  and  glass  casseroles  are  used, 
the  food  is  not  only  cooked  in  them  but  it  also  is  served  in  the 
same  dish.  When  the  casserole  is  to  be  used  in  hot  ovens,  the  lid 
should  contain  a  small  hole  through  which  the  boiling  liquid 
around  the  food  can  escape  as  it  evaporates.  With  a  low  oven 
the  moisture  can  be  retained  so  this  hole  is  not  necessary.  If 
the  lid  has  a  hole,  it  may  be  filled  with  a  stiff  flour  paste. 

Glass  rolling  pins  are  proving  happy  additions  to  kitchen 
cabinets  because  they  can  be  opened  and  filled  with  crushed  ice 
or  ice  water.  This  makes  them  cold  for  making  pastry ;  one  of 
the  best  assurances  that  the  pie  crust  will  be  flaky  and  tender  is 
to  have  it  cold  when  placed  in  the  oven. 


LABOR-SAVING  DEVICES  261 

A  set  of  measuring  spoons  and  two  measuring  cups,  one  for  the 
liquids  and  the  other  for  the  dry  ingredients,  make  the  housewife 
more  certain  of  success  with  the  recipes  she  tries.  She  can  be 
sure  that  her  measurements  are  accurate.  Long-handled  spoons 
with  slits  in  the  bowls  are  useful  in  mixing  foods  and  a  straight- 
edged  knife  with  a  flexible  blade,  the  spatula,  makes  it  possible 
to  scrape  all  the  scraps  of  biscuit  or  cooky  dough  from  the  bowl. 

Women  who  have  suifered  from  burned  hands  know  that  the 
consideration  of  handles  is  worth  while  when  cooking  utensils 
are  being  purchased.  Tea  kettles  which  have  handles  that  stand 
upright  and  do  not  move  are  desirable.  If  kettles  have  bail 
handles,  these  should  be  easy  to  move  and  of  a  material  which 
will  not  retain  heat.  If  of  wire,  they  should  have  an  extra 
wooden  holder  in  the  center.  Saucepans  have  either  long  or 
short  handles;  it  is  best  to  select  those  which  are  of  non-heat 
conducting  materials.  The  lips  for  pouring  should  be  on  both 
sides  of  the  saucepan  so  a  left-handed  person  can  pour  from 
the  utensil  with  as  great  ease  as  a  right-handed  one. 

Small,  but  Helpful  Equipment 

Apple  corers,  orange  and  lemon  juice  extractors,  graters,  vege- 
table cutters,  potato  ricers,  a  slicer  for  hard-cooked  eggs,  nutmeg 
grinders,  cream  ladles,  pie  crimpers,  stainless  steel  paring  and 
butcher  knives,  grapefruit  knives  and  the  Dunlap  cream  whipper 
are  among  the  small  pieces  of  kitchen  equipment  that  are  helpful. 

Knife  Racks 

If  sharp  knives  are  kept  in  a  table  or  cabinet  drawer,  it  is  easy 
for  one  to  cut  her  fingers  when  getting  them  or  some  other 
equipment  from  the  drawers.  A  rack  on  the  kitchen  wall  near 
the  kitchen  table  is  a  satisfactory  way  of  taking  care  of  the 
knives.  These  racks  may  be  made  of  wood  by  taking  a  number 
of  saw  kerfs  out  of  soft  pine  or  of  stiff  wire  coiled  to  resemble  a 
pen  holder  rack. 

Dish  Drainer 

It  is  not  only  less  work  to  let  the  dishes  dry  themselves  in  a 
drainer  than  to  dry  them  on  a  towel  but  it  is  also  much  more 


262  THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

sanitary.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  keep  the  dish  towel  immacu- 
late all  the  time. 

A  satisfactory  drainer  may  be  made  in  the  home.  For  this  an 
ordinary  large  bread  or  biscuit  pan  is  used.  In  this  rests  the  rack 
for  the  dishes.  This  is  made  from  No.  14  wire  which  is  bent 
into  the  proper  shape  for  holding  the  dishes.  This  rack  must  fit 
in  the  pan  and  hold  the  dishes  out  of  the  water  which  is  poured 
over  them  for  scalding.  The  silver  may  be  placed  in  a  tin  can 
with  holes  in  the  bottom  or  in  a  nest  of  poultry  netting  that 
resembles  a  small  bucket. 

The  washed  dishes  are  stacked  in  the  rack  and  hot  water 
poured  over  them.  When  they  are  dry,  they  are  placed  in  the 
cupboard  and  the  water  in  the  pan  is  emptied.  If  one  has  a  sink 
and  drainboard,  the  rack  may  be  placed  on  the  drainboard  and  no 
pan  used  under  it. 

Wheeled  Tray 

The  wheeled  tray  may  be  used  in  taking  dishes  and  food  to 
and  fro  from  work  table  to  the  stove  and  from  the  kitchen  to  the 
dining  room.  They  may  be  purchased  at  a  furniture  store,  or  a 
table  on  wheels  may  be  used.  A  wheeled  serving  table  may  be 
made  by  placing  wheels  on  an  old  washstand. 

Food  Grinders  Made  Useful 

As  a  meat  chopper,  the  food  grinder  is  used  less  than  it  is  any 
other  way,  simply  because  butchering  time  does  not  come  more 
frequently.  Stale  bread  can  be  ground  quickly  for  use  in  pud- 
dings, scalloped  dishes  and  other  combinations.  Vegetables  for 
soup  may  be  chopped  more  quickly  than  they  can  be  cut.  Sand- 
wich fillings  cease  to  worry  when  ground  in  a  food  grinder  and 
they  spread  easily.  Raisins,  nuts,  fruits,  cocoanut  and  practically 
all  dried  fruits  may  be  ground  in  the  chopper.  Peanut  butter 
may  be  made  in  it. 

Powdered  sugar  which  contains  lumps  causes  little  delay 
on  baking  day  if  the  grinder  is  near  by.  The  cabbage,  celery, 
onion  or  other  vegetables  for  salad  can  be  chopped  quickly. 
Horseradish  and  cheese  may  be  ground.  And  beaten  biscuits  are 
not  difficult  to  make  if  the  dough  is  placed  through  the  chopper 
several  times. 


LABOR-SAVIIS^G  DEVICES  263 

Apples  may  be  ground  so  the  apple  sauce  will  cook  rapidly. 
Instead  of  bothering  to  put  cranberries  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
the  skins,  they  may  be  ground  in  the  chopper  before  being 
cooked.  Quince  honey  may  be  made  with  ease  if  the  quinces  are 
ground  instead  of  being  grated  or  cut.  Lemons  and  oranges  for 
use  in  marmalade  may  be  put  through  the  grinder.  It  is  an 
economy  to  grind  foods  that  must  be  cut  or  chopped  for  much 
energy  and  time  is  saved. 

Narrow  Shelves  between  Wide  Ones 

When  cupboard  or  pantry  space  is  limited,  narrow  shelves 
may  be  placed  between  the  wide  ones  to  hold  cups,  tiny  pitchers, 
salt  and  pepper  shakers,  spices  and  other  small  articles. 

Rolling  Cloth 

Instead  of  spending  time  washing  the  bread  board  after  rolling 
out  bread,  cooky,  biscuit  and  other  doughs,  it  may  be  covered 
with  a  piece  of  heavy  white  duck  or  canvas  fastened  down  with 
thumb  tacks.  This  may  be  folded  up  and  kept  in  a  drawer  when 
not  in  use.  It  is  more  sanitary  than  the  board  and  it  may  be 
washed  with  greater  ease. 

Vacuum  Bottles  and  Pitchers 

The  vacuum  bottle  has  an  inner  container  with  heavy  walls 
and  a  tightly  fitting  lid.  In  this  the  beverage  is  poured.  The 
outer  covering  of  the  bottle  also  has  a  heavy  wall ;  between  it  and 
the  outer  wall  of  the  beverage  container  is  an  air  space.  This 
insulation  makes  it  impossible  for  the  cold  or  the  heat  of  the 
beverage  to  get  out  into  the  room  and  for  the  heat  or  cold  of  the 
room  to  get  into  the  bottle.  The  iced  lemonade  or  hot  coffee  will 
retain  its  temperature  several  hours  if  placed  in  a  vacuum  pitcher 
or  bottle.  The  pitcher  differs  from  the  bottle  in  that  it  has  a 
spout  which  makes  it  easier  to  pour  the  beverage  at  the  table. 

Vacuum  Pails 

The  vacuum  pail  is  constructed  like  the  vacuum  bottle  only  it 
is  much  larger.    It  frequently  holds  a  gallon  or  more.    It  is  fine 


264     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

for  use  in  taking  a  cold  drink  to  the  field  in  the  hot  weather  or  a 
hot  one  in  the  winter. 

Electrical  Appliances 

Among  the  electrical  household  appliances  which  are  helpful 
are  toasters,  ovenettes,  table  stoves^  waffle  irons,  egg  beaters, 
irons,  heaters,  curling  irons,  bottle  warmers,  bed  warmers,  fire- 
less  cookers  with  electrically  heated  discs,  coffee  percolators,  tea 
pots  and  tea  kettles. 

Canning  Outfits 

Perhaps  the  simplest  type  of  canner  is  the  water-bath.  This 
consists  of  any  utensil  large  enough  to  hold  several  fruit  jars, 
fitted  with  a  lid  and  a  false  bottom  which  holds  the  jars  away 
from  the  bottom  of  the  container,  protecting  them  from  over- 
heating and  hitting  together  and  allowing  free  circulation  of  the 
water  underneath.  These  canners  may  be  purchased  or  one  may 
be  made  at  home.  The  wash  boiler  or  a  small  tub  with  a  cover 
make  excellent  vessels  for  the  water-bath.  A  false  bottom  must 
be  made.  This  may  be  fashioned  from  narrow  slats  to  form  a 
little  platform  or  of  strong  wire  netting  fastened  on  a  wood 
frame.  If  this  has  handles  which  may  be  used  in  removing  the 
cans  from  the  water-bath,  it  is  more  convenient. 

Then  there  is  the  water-seal  canner  which  has  a  double  walled 
bath  and  a  cover  which  extends  down  into  the  water  between 
the  two  walls,  making  a  third  wall  and  two  jackets  of  water 
between  the  compartment  holding  the  jars  and  the  outer  wall. 
The  advantage  of  this  canner  is  that  it  takes  less  water  to 
manipulate  it  and  since  there  is  less,  not  so  much  fuel  is  required 
to  heat  it  as  the  larger  amount  in  the  water-bath  outfits. 

Next  to  the  water-bath  in  popularity  is  the  steam  pressure 
canner,  which  may  be  a  pressure  cooker  which  has  been  described 
in  this  chapter.  A  pressure  canner  does  not  differ  much,  if  any, 
in  construction  from  a  pressure  cooker,  but  it  usually  is  much 
larger  so  more  cans  of  food  may  be  sterilized  at  the  same  time. 

Making  a  Table  Pad 

An  inexpensive  pad  for  use  in  protecting  the  table  top  from 
hot  dishes  may  be  made  from  wall  board.  Saw  this  into  four 
pieces,  the  size  and  shape  depending  on  the  table  top.     For  a 


LABOR-SAYING  DEVICES  265 

round  table,  saw  the  wall  board  into  four  pie-shaped  pieces  which 
fit  together.  Cover  with  white  cotton  flannel  and  the  pad  is  just 
as  satisfactory  as  if  it  were  of  the  more  costly  asbestos. 

Caring  for  Floors 

If  the  paint,  varnish  or  other  floor  finish  is  worn  and  ugly  in 
appearance,  it  is  an  economy  of  time  and  energy  to  refinish  it. 
Its  care  will  be  made  so  much  easier  if  this  is  done.  If  varnish 
remover  is  applied  with  a  brush,  the  old  finish  will  soften  so 
that  it  may  be  scraped  off  with  a  wide  piece  of  glass  or  any  broad 
spatula  tool.    Then  the  floor  is  cleaned  and  left  to  dry. 

The  next  requirement  is  a  filler.  For  this  equal  parts  of 
turpentine  and  linseed  oil  to  which  sufficient  Japan  dryer  is 
added  to  make  the  mixture  dry  overnight  may  be  used.  For  soft 
wood  floors,  such  as  maple  and  pine,  a  little  umber  may  be 
added  to  stain  the  wood.  Before  applying  this  filler  to  the 
wood,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  apply  a  little  on  boards  of  the  same 
wood  as  the  floor,  making  certain  that  the  color  is  right  and  that 
enough  Japan  dryer  has  been  added  so  that  thf.  finish  will  dry 
overnight. 

When  the  filler  is  applied  and  is  dry,  paste  wax  may  be  added 
to  provide  a  glossy,  beautiful  surface,  to  repel  the  dust  and  dirt 
and  to  protect  the  wood.  This  is  rubbed  into  the  wood  and  best 
results  are  obtained  if  a  weighted  wax  mop  is  used.  A  way  to 
make  a  substitute  mop  is  to  fasten  a  brick  on  top  of  a  large 
scrub  brush  and  to  attach  a  handle  on  this. 

Waxed  floors  may  be  cleaned  easily.  A  daily  dusting  with  a 
dustless  mop  removes  the  fine  particles  of  dust.  This  mop  is 
kept  clean  a  long  time  if  a  clean  cloth  is  tied  over  it  every  time 
it  is  used.  Liquid  wax  is  sprinkled  on  the  cloth  about  once  a 
month  to  help  keep  the  floors  attractive  and  paste  wax  is  added 
two  or  three  times  a  year. 

If  the  floor  is  painted,  it  may  be  waxed,  but  if  varnished,  wax 
is  not  so  satisfactory.  Instead  of  using  it,  a  little  floor  oil  may 
be  sprinkled  on  the  mop  occasionally  when  dusting  the  floor. 

Homemade  Shower  Bath 

If  there  is  no  space  in  the  house  for  the  shower  bath  for 
summer  use,  it  may  be  made  on  the  back  porch  and  screened  off 


266     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

with  curtains  of  canvas  or  heavy  iinbleached  muslin.  A  bucket 
holding  4  gallons  of  water  is  needed  to  hold  the  water.  A  hole  is 
cut  in  the  bottom  of  this  and  a  piece  of  pipe  4  inches  long  is 
soldered  in  this  opening.  Rubber  tubing  4  to  6  feet  long  is 
attached  to  this  pipe  and  a  shower  head,  which  may  be  purchased 
for  fifteen  cents,  or  a  sprinkler  from  a  watering  can,  is  fastened 
into  the  end  of  the  tube. 

The  bucket  is  raised  and  lowered  by  the  use  of  a  pulley  and 
rope  fastened  with  a  staple  to  a  joist  in  the  ceiling.  The  end  of 
the  rope  is  looped  over  a  hook  in  the  wall.  A  clothespin  makes  a 
good  stop-cock  for  the  tubing. 

About  21/2  gallons  of  water  are  required  for  the  shower.  The 
person  stands  in  a  tub  placed  under  the  shower.  One  or  two 
coats  of  white  enamel  make  the  outfit  more  attractive. 

Making  an  Ironing  Board  Cover 

A  cover  for  the  ironing  board  which  is  easily  adjusted  is  made 
in  the  following  way:  hem  unbleached  muslin  of  the  required 
length  and  width,  allowing  a  turn  of  4  inches  on  the  sides. 
Make  8  buttonholes,  4  in  each  side.  Then  use  8  strong  safety 
pins  fastened  through  these  holes  and  to  4  pieces  of  narrow 
elastic.  Six  inch  lengths  of  elastic  are  satisfactory.  This 
ironing  board  cover  does  not  wrinkle  as  long  as  the  elastic  is 
good. 

Sewing  l^chines 

Sewing  machines  operated  by  electric  motors  are  a  great 
convenience  in  homes  where  electricity  is  available.  All  machines 
prove  to  their  operators  that  good  care  pays.  The  use  of  good 
machine  oil  wherever  there  is  friction  is  essential.  If  a  poor 
grade  of  oil  has  been  applied  by  mistake,  it  can  be  removed  by 
the  use  of  kerosene.  Oil  the  machine  with  kerosene.  Wipe  off 
the  surplus  oil  that  forms  when  the  machine  is  run  a  few  minutes 
with  the  needle  unthreaded.     Then  apply  good  oil. 

If  the  machine  needle  is  dull,  it  may  be  sharpened  for  tem- 
porary use  by  stitching  a  few  inches  through  fine  sandpaper. 
To  keep  the  needle  from  unthreading  when  cloth  is  removed, 
raise  it  up  to  the  highest  point  before  taking  out  the  cloth. 

When  the  cloth  puckers,  it  is  a  sign  that  the  tension  is  too 


LABOE-SAYING  DEVICES  267 

tight  or  that  there  is  not  enough  pressure  on  the  pressure  foot. 
Very  thin  materials  frequently  need  to  have  a  layer  of  paper 
under  them  when  being  stitched. 

Skipped  stitches  are  usually  the  result  of  a  bent  needle,  an 
incorrectly  set  needle  or  the  use  of  too  coarse  thread.  The  needle 
will  last  longer  if  the  thread  is  pulled  backward  under  the 
pressure  foot  when  cloth  is  removed.  Pulling  the  thread  forward 
frequently  bends  the  needle. 

Baby's  Summer  Nest 

A  convenient  bed  for  the  small  baby  may  be  made  from  wood 
and  screen.  The  right  dimensions  for  such  a  crib  are  4  feet  or 
more  long,  3  feet  wide  and  3  feet  deep.  The  frame  is  of  wood 
and  the  sides  and  top  are  covered  with  screen.  Either  screen  or 
canvas  may  be  used  for  the  bottom.  The  top  is  fastened  on  with 
hinges  and  casters  under  the  legs  make  it  easier  to  move  the 
little  bed.  A  mattress  will  make  the  nest  soft.  Baby  will  not 
only  find  protection  from  flies  in  this  little  bed,  but  since  he  can- 
not get  out,  he  also  is  made  safe  from  other  dangers.  If  the 
wooden  frame  is  painted  and  enameled  white,  the  crib  is  much 
more  attractive. 

The  Kitchen  Stool 

Much  energy  is  saved  if  the  housewife  sits  down  on  a  high 
stool  while  ironing,  washing  dishes,  stirring  up  the  cake  batter, 
paring  potatoes  and  attending  to  other  household  duties.  If  a 
hole  is  made  through  the  top  of  this  stool  through  which  the 
finger  may  be  placed,  it  is  easy  to  carry  this  device  from  one  part 
of  the  room  to  another. 

Prop  for  Sick  Person 

An  ordinary  kitchen  chair  placed  back  down  at  the  head  of  the 
bed  supplies  a  support  for  the  pillow  against  which  the  patient 
may  lean.  This  makes  it  much  easier  for  an  ill  person  to  sit  up 
in  bed. 


CHAPTER  4 
GRANDMOTHER'S  BEAUTY  SECRETS 

Cucumber  Cream 

To  soothe  an  inflamed  skin  or  to  soften  a  dry  one,  cucumber 
cream  may  be  used.  Take  2  cucumbers  that  are  ripe  and  yellow, 
wash  thoroughly  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
and  add  barely  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Simmer  gently  until 
the  mass  is  soft  and  mushy.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve  and  strain 
through  a  cloth.  To  every  3  ounces  of  cucumber  juice  add  3 
ounces  of  almond  oil  and  y?  ounce  of  white  wax.  Heat  until  all 
the  ingredients  are  melted.  Then  beat  the  mixture  until  it 
becomes  cold^  adding  a  few  drops  of  tincture  of  benzoin  during 
the  beating. 

Strawberry  Lotion 

For  whitening  the  'skin  this  lotion  is  excellent.  Crush  ripe 
strawberries  in  a  saucepan  to  extract  the  juice  and  boil  them 
5  minutes,  mashing  them  with  a  spoon  during  the  cooking. 
Strain  off  the  juice  and  cool.  Measure  and  mix  1  part  of  alcohol 
with  2  parts  of  strawberry  juice.  Bottle  and  use  a  very  little 
to  remove  tan  or  yellowness  from  the  skin. 

Fresh  Berry  Lotion 

Mash  %  cupful  of  ripe  strawberries  and  add  the  same  amount 
of  cold  water.  Before  retiring  and  after  the  face,  neck  and  arms 
have  been  washed,  apply  the  strawberry  mixture  to  the  skin. 
When  washed  o£E  in  the  mornings  the  skin  will  be  more  nearly 
white. 

Lettuce  Cream 

A  cream  which  serves  for  a  bleach  and  a  healing  lotion  is 
made  from  lettuce.     Select  large  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  them 

268 


GEAXDMOTHEE'S  BEAUTY  SECEETS  269 

T\ith  boiling  water.  Let  stand  30  minutes;  then  pour  off  the 
water  and  pound  the  lettuce  with  a  potato  masher.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Then  melt  1  ounce  of  white  wax,  1  ounce  of 
spermacetti  and  4  ounces  of  almond  oil  in  a  double  boiler  or  over 
water.  The  mixture  should  not  boil,  but  just  melt.  Eemove 
from  the  stove  and  add  drop  by  drop  the  lettuce  juice,  beating 
the  mixture  constantly  with  a  fork  until  the  cream  is  smooth, 
light  and  cold. 

Preventing  Wrinkles 

If  strawberries  are  ripe,  they  may  be  combined  with  cream  to 
be  used  on  the  face  to  prevent  wrinkles.  Mash  6  large  and  ripe 
berries  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  heavy  cream.  Pat  this  on 
the  face  with  the  finger  tips,  applying  it  liberally  under  the  eyes 
and  other  places  where  wrinkles  are  likely  to  come. 

Lemon  Bleach 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons  in  1  cupful  of  water  and  wash 
the  face  with  this  two  times  daily  to  remove  freckles.  If  one 
wishes,  the  lemon  juice  may  be  stirred  into  as  much  sugar  as  it 
will  hold  and  this  is  rubbed  on  the  face. 


Horseradish  Bleach 

Select  a  medium-sized  horseradish  root  and  grate  very  fine. 
Cover  with  fresh  buttermilk  and  let  stand  overnight.  Strain 
through  fine  muslin  and  bottle  the  liquid.  Wash  the  face  with 
this  night  and  morning  for  a  bleach. 

Milk  Remedies 

Washing  the  face  daily  with  milk  helps  to  soften,  whiten  and 
to  make  the  skin  smooth.  Buttermilk  is  effective  in  remedying 
acne  or  removing  pimples  and  it  has  a  tendency  to  remove  freck- 
les. Sweet  cream  may  be  used  as  a  cure  for  chapped  hands  and 
lips,  and  for  sunburn.  If  the  skin  is  broken  out  slightly,  the 
addition  of  a  little  grated  horseradish  or  flowers  of  sulphur  to 
the  milk  is  helpful.  These  preparations  are  made  immediately 
before  being  used  since  they  do  not  keep  well. 


270     THE  FAKM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

For  Excessive  Perspiration 

If  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  are  placed  in  the  bath_, 
the  water  will  be  softened  and  much  of  the  discomfort  from 
excessive  perspiration  will  be  overcome.  The  baking  soda  may 
be  sprinkled  on  the  body  just  as  talcum  powder  is. 

Hand  Astringent 

For  hands  that  are  moist  most  of  the  time,  frequent  baths  in 
salt  water  usually  will  check  the  excessive  perspiration.  If  this 
fails,  the  hands  may  be  washed  occasionally  in  1  cupful  of  water 
to  which  the  juice  of  a  lemon  has  been  added. 

For  Hard  Hands 

Eub  oatmeal  on  the  hands  after  they  have  been  washed.  This 
cleanses  and  softens  the  skin.  Cornmeal  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  oatmeal.  A  good  cleanser  is  made  by  mixing  1  tablespoonf ul 
of  powdered  borax  with  1  pint  of  cornmeal. 

Honey  for  the  Hands 

For  chapped  hands  rub  honey  on  them.  Put  on  gloves  and 
leave  the  honey  on  all  night.  In  the  morning  wash  in  bran 
water. 

Bran  Water 

Boil  a  cupful  of  bran  in  a  muslin  bag.  Put  both  the  bran  bag 
and  the  liquid  in  which  it  cooked  in  the  wash  bowl  and  wash  the 
hands.  When  dry,  rub  a  little  honey  on  them.  This  is  excellent 
treatment  for  rough,  red  skins. 

Honey  Mask 

Dilute  honey  a  little  with  water  and  rub  on  the  face  before 
retiring.  This  mask  helps  to  prevent  wrinkles  and  to  soften  the 
skin. 

Potato  Mask 

For  the  oily  skin  which  is  subject  to  blackheads  the  potato 
mask  is  a  joy.    Wash  the  potato  thoroughly  and  cut  it  in  slices. 


GRANDMOTHER'S  BEAUTY  SECRETS  271 

Rub  these  over  the  skin.    It  removes  the  oil,  cleanses  the  pores 
and  whitens  the  skin. 

Glycerin  Wash 

For  skin  irritations,  itching  or  redness  the  addition  of  1  ounce 
of  glycerin  to  19  ounces  of  soft  water  makes  an  excellent  face 
wash. 

Oatmeal  Wash 

Boil  1  pint  of  Scotch  oatmeal  in  2  pints  of  boiling  water  until 
a  clear  liquid  is  formed.  Use  a  double  boiler  for  this  purpose. 
Strain  the  liquid  through  a  piece  of  fine  muslin,  boil  and  strain 
again.  Add  sufficient  rose  water  to  give  the  liquid  the  con- 
sistency of  milk.  If  one  wishes,  a  few  drops  of  perfume  may  be 
added  before  the  liquid  is  bottled. 

Onion  Tonic 

For  very  thin  hair,  cut  an  onion  in  halves  and  rub  the  scalp 
with  these  vigorously  before  retiring  at  night.  The  juice  of 
onions  invigorates  the  roots  of  the  hair. 

Egg  Shampoo 

Beat  2  eggs  together  lightly  and  rub  into  the  scalp  and 
through  the  hair  which  has  been  moistened  with  lukewarm 
water.  Rinse  out  the  egg  with  lukewarm  water  to  which  a  little 
melted  castile  soap  has  been  added.  Then  rinse  in  two  or  three 
clear  lukewarm  waters. 

For  Dandruff 

Saturate  fhe  scalp  every  night  with  sulphur  water  which  is 
made  by  dissolving  1  ounce  flowers  of  sulphur  in  1  quart  of 
water.  Shake  every  now  and  then  while  the  sulphur  is  dis- 
solving. Let  the  solution  stand  until  it  settles  and  use  only  the 
clear  liquid. 

Skin  Tonic 

After  cleansing  the  skin,  apply  a  tonic  to  give  a  freshened 
appearance.    This  is  made  by  combining  1  part  witchhazel  with 


272     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

2  parts  Florida  water.    If  the  skin  is  very  oily,  use  equal  parts  of 
witchhazel  and  Florida  water. 

For  Blackheads 

Rub  pure  lard  on  the  blackheads  and  let  stand  5  or  10 
minutes.  Then  wipe  off  gently  with  soft  cloth  and  rub  a  cake 
of  a  mild  soap,  wet  in  water,  on  the  surface.  Wash  off  with 
warm  water. 

Ann  and  Hand  Bleach 

Beat  1  egg  yolk  until  light  and  add  20  drops  tincture  of 
benzoin,  i/^  ounce  glycerin,  I/2  ounce  rose  water,  1  teaspoonful 
olive  oil  and  enough  flour  to  thicken  or  to  make  a  soft  paste. 
Cover  the  arms  with  this  at  night  and  wrap  them  with  soft 
cloth.  Wash  off  in  the  morning  and  repeat  the  process  until  the 
skin  is  smooth  and  white. 

Keeping  Hair  in  Curl 

Before  doing  the  hair  up  on  curlers  moisten  it  with  a  mixture 
made  by  beating  the  white  of  an  egg  until  light  and  adding  to 
this  1/4  cupful  of  cold  water  and  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

For  Wrinkles 

By  combining  2  drams  of  butter,  2  drams  of  essence  of  tur- 
pentine and  1  dram  of  mastic,  a  cream  is  made  which  prevents 
wrinkles. 

Almond  Wash 

Mash  4  ounces  of  sweet  blanched  almonds  and  rub  until  very 
fine  and  add  24  ounces  of  rose  water.  In  another  saucepan  mix 
4  drams  each  of  white  wax^  castile  or  other  pure  soap  and  oil  of 
almonds,  30  drops  oil  of  lavender  and  16  drops  of  attar  of  roses. 
Heat  gently  and  combine  the  two  mixtures  by  beating  with  an 
egg  beater.     Strain. 

Milk  of  Almonds 

To  soften  and  nourish  the  skin  use  milk  of  almonds.  Put  2 
oimces  of  sweet  almonds,  the  thin  shell  variety  usually  found  on 


GRANDMOTHER'S  BEAUTY  SECRETS  273 

the  market,  through  a  food  grinder.  Mash  thoroughly  and  add 
2  cupfuls  of  clean  soft  water  which  has  been  boiled  and  cooled. 
Mix  and  rub  "until  a  milky  emulsion  is  made.  Then  strain 
through  muslin.  A  few  drops  of  perfume  may  be  added  if  one 
wishes.     Wash  the  face  with  this  liquid. 

Complexion  Sachets 

Combine  1  teaspoonful  of  flaxseed  with  an  equal  amount  of 
bran  and  place  in  a  tiny  muslin  bag.  Moisten  with  water  and 
apply  to  pimples  and  blackheads.  Allow  to  remain  on  about 
5  minutes,  then  remove  and  squeeze  out  the  blackhead  or  the 
matter  from  the  pimple.     Pat  the  surface  with  very  cold  water. 

Hand  Wash 

Combine  2  ounces  glycerin,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  table- 
spocnfuls  of  water  and  a  few  drops  of  carbolic  acid.  Bottle  and 
shake.     Use  on  the  hands  after  they  have  been  washed. 

After  Dish  Washing 

Make  a  paste  by  moistening  1  cupful  of  cornmeal  with  vinegar. 
Use  this  in  cleansing  the  hands  after  dish  washing  instead  of 
soap.     This  keeps  the  skin  soft  and  white. 

For  Oily  Hair 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  as  stiff  as  possible.  Rub  it  into  the 
hair  until  the  locks  are  wet.     Let  dry  and  then  brush  out. 

Dry  Cleaning"  the  Hair  Brush 

Mix  together  equal  amounts  of  salt  and  flour  and  rub  through 
the  brush.     Comb  out. 


To  Remove  Onion  Odor  from  Breath 

A  cupful  of  strong  coffee  will  remove  onion  odors  from  the 
breath. 


274     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

To  Soften  Bath  Water 

Fill  tiny  bags  of  cheesecloth  with  crystals  of  sequi  carbonate, 
using  about  3  tablespoonfuls  to  a  bag.  This  prevents  a  dry  and 
itchy  feeling  that  the  skin  sometimes  has  after  bathing. 

For  Sunburn 

If  encumbers  are  seasonable,  select  a  ripe  one  and  cut  a  slice 
from  it.  Eub  this  over  the  burned  skin.  This  is  cooling  and 
soothing. 

To  Whiten  Teeth 

Kub  crushed  strawberries  on  the  teeth  before  retiring. 

Grandmother's  Complexion  Clearer 

A  fig  paste  which  grandmother  made  to  keep  the  complexion 
clear  is  one  with  a  laxative  effect.  In  addition  it  is  good  to  eat. 
Chop  1  cupful  of  figs,  1  cupful  of  raisins  and  1  ounce  of  senna 
leaves  together.  Add  1  cupful  of  water  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Cook  gently  until  a  paste  is  made.  Add  14  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  remove  the  mixture  from  the  fire.  Cut  in 
1  inch  squares  when  cool  and  eat  one  before  retiring. 

About  Dieting" 

The  foods  which  help  a  thin  person  to  gain  in  weight  are 
butter,  cream,  whole  milk,  eggs  and  olive  oil.  Eggnogs  are  fine. 
Vegetables  should  be  served  with  butter  or  rich  cream  sauces 
and  an  abundance  of  cream  may  be  used  on  the  dessert. 

Fat  persons  should  eat  less  butter,  cream,  bacon,  pastry,  cake 
and  all  kinds  of  sweets  and  starches  if  they  wish  to  lose  weight. 
A  liberal  use  of  fruits  and  green  vegetables  is  desirable,  but  the 
vegetables  should  be  served  with  very  little,  if  any,  butter  and  no 
cream. 

Other  foods  which  fat  persons  should  eat  very  sparingly  and 
in  w^hich  thin  ones  may  indulge  are  candies,  ice  creams,  griddle- 
cakes  with  syrup,  breakfast  cereals  with  cream  and  rich  pud- 
dings. Fat  persons  should  also  avoid  macaroni,  rice  and  large 
quantities  of  biscuits  and  bread.     Some  potato  may  be  eaten 


GRANDMOTHEE'S  BEAUTY  SECRETS  275 

because  it  is  filling  and  a  slice  of  bread  at  cTery  meal  is  not 
objectionable,  especially  if  it  is  not  buttered.  Skim  milk  should 
be  used  instead  of  cream  whenever  possible  and  an  egg  for  break- 
fast is  all  right.  Salad  dressings  for  fat  persons  should  be  of  the 
boiled  variety  while  thin  folks  wishing  to  put  on  weight  will 
find  the  dressings  with  olive  oil  as  a  foundation  helpful. 

Since  every  red  blood  corpuscle  must  contain  iron,  foods  rich 
in  this  substance  help  to  keep  one  in  good  health  and  to  give 
one  rosy  cheeks  and  red  lips.  Foods  containing  much  iron  are 
spinach,  cabbage,  lean  beef,  egg  yolks,  raisins,  prunes  and  most 
fruits.  Milk  is  very  wholesome.  Every  person  requires  about 
2  cupfuls  a  day,  thin  persons  whole  milk  and  fat  ones  skim 
milk.  As  a  protection  against  scurv}^  some  fresh  food  should 
be  included  in  the  meals  every  day.  Oranges,  tomatoes,  raw 
cabbage,  lettuce  and  raw  carrots  are  valuable  for  this  purpose. 
As  a  rule,  a  tonic  will  not  be  needed  in  the  spring  if  there  has 
been  an  abundance  of  fruit,  vegetables  and  milk  in  the  winter 
diet.  The  use  of  too  much  fat  meat  should  be  avoided  by  every- 
one, and  the  fat  person  should  eat  practically  none  of  it. 


CHAPTER  5 
COOKING  FOE  THE  SICK 

Since  persons  who  are  ill  frequently  are  not  hungry,  it  requires 
skill  to  prepare  food  to  cater  to  their  appetites,  as  every  mother 
knows.  Cleanliness  of  food,  dishes  and  tray  is  essential.  Neat 
service  is  helpful  and  broken  or  cracked  dishes  are  not  per- 
missible. Only  an  excellent  quality  of  food  simply  prepared 
should  be  used.  If  a  dish  is  supposed  to  be  hot,  serve  it  that 
way,  not  as  a  lukewarm  combination,  and  if  frozen  desserts  are 
on  the  menu,  they  should  reach  the  patient  without  melting. 

An  attractive  tray  stimulates  the  appetite.  Pretty  dishes, 
artistically  molded  puddings,  a  tiny  spray  of  flowers  or  ferns  in 
a  small  vase,  a  joke  or  quotation  from  a  current  magazine  or  a 
fancy  garnish  on  one  of  the  dishes  will  help  put  the  patient  in  a 
happy  frame  of  mind  so  he  will  forget  himself  and  eat  more 
heartily  than  he  otherwise  would. 

Children  are  especially  appreciative  when  their  food  is  served 
in  an  unique  way.  If  oatmeal  will  not  be  eaten  from  a  bowl,  it 
frequently  is  relished  if  served  in  a  flower  pot.  A  tiny  pot 
covered  with  gay  crepe  paper  is  used.  In  it  the  glass  containing 
the  oatmeal  and  milk  or  cream  is  set.  A  flower  is  inserted  in 
the  pot. 

A  banana  boat  is  equally  enticing.  This  consists  of  an  empty 
banana  skin  lined  with  oiled  paper  and  filled  with  food.  Tooth- 
picks are  used  for  oars.  A  pig  made  from  a  hollow  lemon  with 
toothpicks  for  legs  and  cloves  for  its  features  delights  sick 
children.  If  this  is  filled  with  a  frozen  ice  which  may  be  sipped 
through  a  straw,  it  is  indeed  enticing.  Baskets  may  be  fash- 
ioned from  empty  oranges  and  grapefruits  lined  with  oiled 
paper.  Toast  hollowed  out  to  hold  scrambled  eggs  may  repre- 
sent a  nest  and  bread  cut  in  fancy  shapes  with  cooky  cutters  and 
toasted  usually  wins  approval. 

276 


COOKIXG  FOE  THE  SICK  277 

The  recipes  given  in  this  chapter  are  suitable  for  use  in  cater- 
ing to  the  invalid's  appetite.  If  a  doctor  is  attending  the  ill 
person,  it  is  advisable  for  the  homemaker  to  suggest  to  the 
physician  some  of  the  dishes  she  wishes  to  prepare.  This  fre- 
quently is  helpful  to  the  doctor  who  may  not  have  time  to  work 
out  the  menu  as  carefully  as  the  housemother  does. 

Rice  Water 

2  tablespoonfuls  rice  3  cupfuls  cold  water 

%  teaspoonful  salt 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly.  Soak  30  minutes  in  the  cold  water, 
heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  soft. 
Strain,  reheat,  season  with  salt,  and  if  too  thick,  dilute  with 
boiling  water. 

Beef  Juice 

Cut  round  steak  into  small  portions  or  grind  in  a  food  chop- 
per. Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  a  little  salt.  Let  stand  30 
minutes  and  then  gradually  heat,  keeping  the  meat  below  the 
boiling  point.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  serve  either  hot  or 
cold.  One  pound  of  meat  will  make  about  %  cupful  of  the 
juice. 

Fluffy  Lemonade 

Eoll  1  lemon  until  soft  and  remove  the  juice,  excluding  the 
seeds.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  water  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  crushed  ice.  Just  before  serving  add  ^4  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

Toast  Water 

Take  a  thick  slice  of  bread  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Brown 
in  the  oven,  sprinkle  with  I/4  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  add  1  cupful 
of  hot  water.  Cover  and  let  stand  until  cool.  Strain  and  serve 
hot  or  cold. 

Beef  Tea 

Wipe  1  pound  of  lean  beef  with  a  clean  cloth  moistened  in 
water,  cut  in  tiny  cubes  and  place  in  a  quart  fruit  jar.  Add  2 
cupfuls  of  cold  water  and  %  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Then  set  the 


278     THE  FARM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

jar  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and 
bring  the  water  gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  Strain  and  serve 
while  hot.    Sometimes  this  beef  tea  is  frozen  before  being  served. 

Coffee  with  Egg 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  until  light  and  add  to  it  %  cupful  of 
hof  milk  and  %  cupful  of  hot  coffee. 

Slippery-Elm  Tea 

Steep  about  2  ounces  of  slippery-elm  bark  in  1  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water  30  minutes.  Strain  and  add  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  If  slippery- 
elm  powder  is  used,  dissolve  2  teaspoonfuls  of  it  in  the  hot  water. 

Wholesome  Broth 

Beat  1  egg  with  %  teaspoonful  of  sugar  until  the  mixture  is 
very  light.  Add  2  cupfuls  of  hot  milk  or  boiling  water  and  % 
teaspoonful  of  salt.     Serve  immediately. 

Grandmother's  Eggnog 

Beat  1  egg  yolk  and  1  tablespoonf  ul  of  sugar  together  until  the 
mixture  is  light.  Add  1  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Pour  over  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  crushed  ice  and  serve.  If  hot  eggnog  is  desired,  omit  the  egg 
white  and  heat  the  milk. 

Coffee  Delicious 

Place  1  tablespoonful  of  finely  ground  coffee  in  %  cupful  of 
cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Let  stand  5  minutes, 
strain  and  add  %  cupful  of  hot  milk.  Serve  at  once  with  sugar 
if  sweetening  is  desired. 

Scalloped  Egg 

Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  14  teaspoonful  of  salt  together.  Butter  an  egg  cup 
and  place  one-half  the  mixture  in  it.    Break  1  egg  on  top  of  this 


COOKIXG  FOR  THE  SICK  279 

and  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  crumb  mixture.  Bake  5  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Garnish  with  strips  of  bread  and  butter  or 
buttered  toast. 

Egg  on  Toast 

Beat  1  egg  slightly  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  milk  and  14 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Melt  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  small 
frying  pan  and  add  the  egg  mixture.  Cook  until  creamy,  stir- 
ring gently.  Toast  a  slice  of  bread,  butter,  and  moisten  slightly 
with  a  little  warm  milk.  Pour  the  egg  on  the  toast  and  serve 
garnished  with  parsley. 

Invalid's  Omelet 

Place  2  eggs  in  a  bowl^  add  %  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper.  Beat  until  light  and  fluffy  and  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  milk.  Melt  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan, 
pour  in  the  egg  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  the  egg  is  set.  Poll 
and  serve  on  a  hot  plate.  Garnish  with  bits  of  cooked  chicken  or 
ham  or  grated  cheese. 

Rice  Treat 

Pour  1/4  cupful  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  add  an  equal  amount 
of  cold  boiled  rice  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Heat 
gently.  Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  stir  into  the  mixture  and  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Pour  into  a  buttered  and 
hot  fr}'ing  pan  and  brown  on  the  bottom.  Set  in  the  oven  to  dry 
off  the  top  and  serve  folded  like  an  omelet.  Garnish  with  bits  of 
jelly.  If  the  rice  has  not  been  salted,  use  about  V2  teaspoonful 
of  salt  in  this  dish. 

Beef  Broth 

Wipe  2  pounds  of  lean  beef  with  a  damp  cloth,  remove  all 
particles  of  fat  and  skin  and  cut  the  lean  moat  in  small  pieces. 
Break  the  bones  and  place  with  the  meat  in  the  soup  kettle.  Add 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  2  quarts  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually 
to  the  boiling  point  but  do  not  boil.  Remove  the  scum  as  it 
appears  on  the  top.  Simmer  gently  4  hours,  strain,  cool,  remove 
all  fat  and  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  stalk  of  celery  and  a 


280     THE  FARM  COOK  AXD  EULE  BOOK 

bayleaf  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  soft,  but  do  not  boil.    Serve  hot 
with  crackers. 

Mutton  Broth 

Use  2  pounds  of  lean  mutton  and  make  in  the  same  way  as 
Beef  Broth. 

Chicken  Stewed  in  Milk 

Cut  half  a  chicken  into  convenient  pieces,  remove  the  skin  and 
put  it  into  a  fruit  jar  with  1  cuj^ful  of  milk,  a  little  pepper,  salt 
and  celery.  Place  the  jar  in  a  kettle  containing  water  and  grad- 
ually heat  until  the  water  simmers.  Keep  the  water  simmering 
until  the  chicken  is  tender,  adding  more  water  as  it  boils  down. 
\Yhen  the  chicken  is  cooked,  remove  from  the  jar  and  pour  the 
liquor  around  it  into  a  pan.  Thicken  with  a  little  arrowroot 
first  placed  in  cold  milk  or  a  little  flour.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  chicken  and  serve  hot. 


Chicken  Jelly 

Simmer  half  a  chicken,  cut  in  convenient  places,  in  a  kettle 
containing  1  quart  of  water.  During  the  cooking  add  2  small 
stalks  of  celery,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley  and  IM2 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  When  the  chicken  is  so  tender  that  it  falls 
in  pieces,  strain  off  the  liquid  and  let  cool.  Skim  off  the  fat. 
If  allowed  to  stand  overnight,  this  should  be  a  clear  and  firm 
jelly. 

Milk  Broth 

Place  %  cupful  of  the  chicken  jelly  in  a  saucepan  and  add  an 
equal  amount  of  milk.     Heat  and  serve  hot  with  toast. 

Oysters 

Wash  1  cupful  of  oysters,  drain,  place  in  a  pan  and  heat 
gentlj  until  the  oysters  are  plump.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  Yo  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper  and  serve  hot 
on  toast.. 


COOKIXG  FOE  THE  SICK  281 

Broiled  Chop 

Use  a  mutton  chop  cut  rather  thick.  Remove  the  skin  and  fat 
and  rub  the  frying  pan  with  the  fat.  Add  the  chop  and  heat  over 
a  hot  fire.  Turn  constantly  during  the  10  minutes  of  cooking. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkling  the  chop  with  salt  and  a  dash  of 
pepper. 

Broiled  Steak 

Use  a  piece  of  steak  from  the  ribs  or  the  haunch  bone  if 
possible.  Heat  the  frying  pan  and  rub  a  little  piece  of  suet 
over  it.  Lay  the  steak  in  the  pan  and  turn  frequently  during 
the  10  minutes  it  is  cooking.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkling  the 
meat  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 

Beef  Balls 

Scrape  %  pound  of  lean  meat  until  only  the  fiber  is  left. 
Mix  the  pulp  with  a  little  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
shape  in  tiny  balls.  Place  a  little  butter  in  a  hot  frying  pan. 
Roll  the  balls  over  this  to  take  away  the  raw  appearance,  but 
serve  very  rare. 

Chicken  Broth 

Skin  the  chicken,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  break  up  the 
bones.  Put  the  meat  and  the  bones  in  a  kettle  ^dth  II/2  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Simmer  gently  for  at 
least  4  hours,  keeping  the  fat  skimmed  off.  Strain  off  the  liquor 
and  place  in  a  saucepan.  Add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  washed  rice  and 
simmer  until  this  is  tender. 

Stewed  Rabbit 

Put  a  few  pieces  of  rabbit  in  a  fruit  jar,  after  they  have  been 
boiled  3  minutes  in  water.  This  liquid  in  which  it  is  parboiled  is 
thrown  away.  Cover  the  meat  with  milk  and  add  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  simmer  gently 
until  the  rabbit  is  tender.     Add  more  water  as  it  cooks  away. 


^ 


283     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  EULE  BOOK 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  slices,  after  they  have  been  washed  and 
peeled,  and  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  then  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Eepeat  until  all  the  tomatoes 
are  used.  Dot  with  butter^  season  with  salt  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Tapioca  Pudding 

Wash  and  soak  1  teaspoonful  of  pearl  tapioca  overnight. 
Drain,  place  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1  cupful  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  %  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  and  1  egg  yolk  well  beaten.  .Turn  into  a  serving  dish 
and  cover  with  the  stiffly  beaten  eg^^^^ftTin  which  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  has  been  folded.  Set  in  the  oven  and  slowly  brown 
the  egg  white.  A  few  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  dates,  figs, 
prunes  or  drained  canned  fruit  may  be  added  to  the  pudding  just 
before  it  is  removed  from  the  stove  if  one  wishes. 

Apple  Delight 

Eun  1  cupful  of  apple  sauce  through  a  fine  sieve  and  fold  in 
%  cupful  of  stiffly  whipped  cream.  If  this  is  not  fluffy  enough, 
fold  in  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  until  dry.  Flavor  with  a  few 
drops  of  vanilla.  The  apple  sauce  should  be  sweetened  or  more 
sugar  will  need  to  be  added. 

Frozen  Pudding 

Place  1  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  mixed  together 
with  a  small  portion  of  the  milk.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  thicken.  Eemove  from  the  fire  and  add  %  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  %  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  beaten  egg.  Stir  until 
mixed,  strain,  cool  and  freeze.  A  fancy  cream  may  be  made  by 
adding  fruit  or  berries  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

Prune  Fluff 

Eub  1  cupful  of  cooked  prunes  through  a  sieve,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  fold  in  1  stiffly  beaten  egg  white. 


COOKING  FOE  THE  SICK  283 

Add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  pile  on  an  oiled  dish  and  set  in  the 
oven  3  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  a  boiled  custard  or  cream,  plain 
or  whipped. 

Grape  Jelly  ^"^ 

Soak  1  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatin  in  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  water"  and  dissolve  by  stirring  over  hot  water.  Dissolve 
%  cupful  of  sugar  in  1  cupful  of  grape  juice,  heating  this 
slightly.  Add  the  gelatin  and  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  stir  thoroughly.  Set  in  a  cold  place  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  harden.  Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  beat 
the  whole  mixture  until  light  and  stiff.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  boiled  custard. 

Grandma's  Floating  Island 

Heat  1  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  1^  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and  14  teaspoonful  of 
salt  which  have  been  sifted  together.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
1  beaten  ^gg  yolk  and  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Add  % 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  dish.  Set  in  a  cold  place. 
Beat  the  white  of  1  o^gg  until  very  stiff  and  dry  and  add  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Drop  this  by  spoonfuls  on  but- 
tered paper  and  place  in  the  oven  two  or  three  minutes  and  then 
place  on  top  of  the  pudding  in  the  dish. 

Fruit  Pudding 

Use  canned  strawberries,  raspberries  or  peaches.  Strain  1 
cupful  through  a  coarse  strainer,  add  i^  cupful  of  sugar  and  y^ 
teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of 
1  ^gg.     Set  in  a  cool  place  and  serve  very  cold. 

Blanc  Mange 

Place  1  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  heat,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  mixed  to- 
gether in  a  little  water  to  form  a  paste.  Stir  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  i/4  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  %  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pour  into  a  mold.    Let  stand  in  a 


284     THE  FAEM  COOK  AND  RULE  BOOK 

cold  place  until  firm.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  and  gar- 
nished with  fresh  berries  or  candied  cherries. 


Junket  Pudding 

Dissolve  %  rennin  tablet  in  1  teaspoonful  of  water.  Dissolve 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  1  cupful  of  milk,  add  vanilla,  a  few 
drops,  and  heat  the  milk  to  body  temperature.  Add  the  rennin, 
turn  into  a  wet  mold  and  allow  to  remain  undisturbed  at  room 
temperature  until  firm.  Unmold  and  serve  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

Irish  Moss  Jelly 

%  cupful  Irish  moss  2  tablespoonfuls  lomon  or  orange 

2  figs  juice 

1  cupful  boiling  water  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Soak,  pick  over  and  wash  the  moss.  Cut  figs  in  strips.  Add 
moss  and  figs  to  boiling  water.  Simmer  about  20  minutes  or 
until  thick  when  dropped  in  a  cold  dish.  Add  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.     Strain  in  a  cold,  wet  mold. 


INDEX 


PART  ONE 


Angel  Food  Cake.  41 
Apples,   Baked,   125 

Baked,  Variations,   125 

Bettv,  95 

Boiled,    126 

Candied,  62 

and  Cabbage  Salad.   160 

and  Celery  Salad,   156 

Chutnev,  80 

Dutch  Cake,  98 

en  Casserole,  126 

English  Pie,  148 

Fried.  127 

Jellv,  90 

Lucile's  Pie.  148 

Mammy's  Baked,  126 

Pectin,  91 

Pie,    147 

Sauce,   126 

Spiced,  82 

Taffy,  63 
Asparagus,  Buttered,  182 

Escalloped,  188 

Marie's,  189 

Salad,  158 

Badger  Squaw  Dish,  186 
Banana  Bavarian,  112 

Salad.  156 
Beans,  Baked,   191 

String,  Vingrette.  182 

String,  with  Pork,  190 
Beef,  Hamburg.  129 

Pot  Roast,  131 

Roast,  128 

Rump  Roast,  129 

Steak,  135 
Beets.  Boiled,   181 

Pickled,  181 

Pickles,  78 

in  Sour  Sauce,  183 
Berrv  Pie,  147 

Butter,   172 


Beverages,  5-11 

After-dinner  Coffee,  6 

Boiled  Coffee  with  Egg,  5 

Breakfast  Cocoa  with   Egg,  7 

Cafe  au  Lait,   10 

Cherry  Juice,  9 

Chocolate,  7 

Cocoa,  7 

Cocoa  for  Party,  10 

Cocoa  Syrup,  8' 

Drip  or  Filtered  Coffee,  6 

Eggnog,  10 

Flavored  Milk.  10 

Fruit  Foundation  Drink,  9 

Grandmother's  Lemonade,  9 

Grape  Juice.  Delicious,  9 

Grape  Lemonade,  8 

Honey  Lemonade,  8 

Iced  Cocoa,  8 

Iced  Coffee,  6 

Iced  Tea,  7 

Lemonade.  8 

Milk  Shake.  10 

Percolated  Coffee,  5 

Pineapple  Juice,  9 

Raspberry  Juice,  9 

Russian  Tea.  8 

Spiced  Milk,  10 

Steeped  Coffee,  6 

Tea,  6 

Tea  Punch,  9 
Biscuits.  Baking  Powder,  25 

Cheese,  26 

Ever-ready  Dough,  21 

Fancy,  26" 

Parisian,   26 

Pies,  27 
Blackberry  Preserves,  84 
Bologna  Sausage,  213 
Bonbons,  60 
Braids  of  Bread.  19 
Bran  Bread,  29 
Bread   (Quick),  Bran,  29 


285 


286 


INDEX 


Bread  (Quick)    {Continued) 
Lucy's  Walnut,  29 

Nut,  29 
Bread   (Yeast),  Braids,  19 
Cinnamon  Rolls,  18 

Coffee,  20 

Dinner  Rolls,  18 

Eggless  Raisin,  20 

Graham,   17 

Oatmeal,  20 

Parkerhouse  Rolls    (Quick),   17 

Parkerhouse     Rolls     (Sponge 
Method),  18 

Raisin,  20 

Raisin  Coffee,  10 

Rye,  17 

Rye,  21 

White   (Straight  Dough),  15 

White  (Sponge),  16 

White   (Quick  Sponge),  16 
Bread  Pudding,  94 

Strips,  22 
BrowTi  Sugar  Filling,  122 
Brown  Sugar  Fudge  Frosting,  120 
Buckwheat  Cakes,  30-31 
Buns,  Hot  Cross,  28 
Butchering,  Bologna  Sausage,  213 

Corned  Beef,   214 

Dried  Beef,  215 

Dry  Cured  Pork,  211 

General  Directions,  210 

Headcheese,  213 

Lard,  214 

Liver  Sausage,  213 

Pickled  Pigs'  Feet,  212 

Pickled  Salt  Pork.  211 

Pork  Sausage.  212 

Sausage    Casings.   212 

Sugar  Cured  Pork.  210 

Vienna  Sausage,  215 

Virginia  Cured  Ham,  212 

Wash  for  Keeping  j\Ieat,  216 
Butterscotch,  Candy,  58 

Filling,  149 

Cake,  Angel  Food,  41 
Apple,  40 
Aunt  Nellie's,  39 
Bread  Sponge,  23 
Caramel,  40 
Cheap  Sponge,  42 
Chocolate,  37 
Cup,  43 
Dutch  Apple,  98 


Cake   (Continued) 
English,   39 
Feather,  38 
Gold,  38 

Hannah's  Tea,  41 

Jelly  Roll,  37 

Nut,  36 

Orange,  36 

Plain,  36 

Quick  Coffee,  26 
Rachel's  Dark,  38 

Raisin,   36 

Ruth's  Boiled,  41 

Sour  Milk,  39 

Spice,  36  and  40 

Sponge,  42 

White,  37 

White  Layer,  37 
Cabbage,  Baked,   186 

and  Pineapple  Salad,  155 

Salad,  155 

Stuffed,   184 
Candied    Apples,    62 
Candied  Cherries,  63 
Candies,  Bonbons,  60 

Bonbon   Delights,  61 

Butter  Scotch,  58 

Caramel  Squares,  56 

Chocolate  Squares,  58 

Cocoanut,  56 

Divinity,  58 

Fondant,  59 

Fruit  Balls,  60 

Honey  Kisses,  60 

Layer,  57 

Maple  Squares,  56 

Marshmallows,  61 

Mints,  59 

Peanut   Brittle,   57 

Peppermint  Circles,  56 

Pralines,   61 

Sugar  Taffy,   58 

Taffy,  58 
Canning,  Directions,  65-69 

Fruit  Juices,  75 

Meats,  72-74 

Soups,  74 

Time  Tables.  70-71 
Cantaloupe  Pickles,  83 
Caramel  Cake,  40 

Frosting,   122 

Squares,  56 
Carrots,  Baked,  187 

Glazed,  185 


INDEX 


287 


Catchup,  Apple,  81 

Cucumber,  81 

Elderberry,  81 

Grape,  82 

Lemon,  80 

Raspberry,  80 

Tomato,  79 

Walnut,   81 
Celery   Salad,    158 
Cereals,  Baked  ]\Iacaroni,  51 

Boiled  Macaroni,  51 

Boiled  Rice,  51 

Browned  Macaroni,  51 

Spanish  Spaghetti,  51 
Cheese  Balls,   118 

Cottage,  118 

Fondu,  117 

Souffle,  118 

Straws,  149 
Cherries,  Candied,  63 
Cherry  Juice,  9 
Chicken  Fricassee,   136 

Goulash,   136 

Jellied,   157 

Salad,   157 

Sandwiches,  164-165 

Sandwiches  (Hot),  166 

Smothered,  136 

Soup,   178 
Chili  Con  Carni,  175 
Chili  Sauce,  80 
Chocolate,  7 

Cream  Frosting,  121 

Dessert,  101 

Filling.  121 

Fudge  Frosting,   120 

Pie,  149 

Sauce,   169 
Chowder,  Boston,  179 

Corn,   179 

Fish,  179 
Cinnamon  Rolls,  18 

Toast,   33 
Citron,  Candied,  64 
Cocoa,  7 

Breakfast,  with  Egg,  7 

for  Party,  10 

Hot  Sauce,  169 

Iced.  8 

Syrup,    8 
Cocoanut  Candv,  56 
Coddled  Eggs,  115 
Coffee,  After-dinner,  6 

Boiled  with  Egg,  5 


Coffee  (Continued) 

Bread,  20 

Cafe  au  Lait,  10 

Drip  or  Filtered,  6 

Gingerbread   43 

Iced,  6 

Percolated,  5 

Steeped,  6 
Cookies,  Date,  45 

Delights,  44 

Festive,  45 

Ginger,  46 

Hermits,  45 

Jelly  Jumbles,  44 

Mary's  Gingersnaps,  46 

Oatmeal  Rocks,  46 

Overnight,  48 

Plain,   44 

Raisin,  46 

Vanilla   Wafers,  47 
Cole  Slaw,   159 

Cooking  in  Large  Quantities,  197 
Cornbread,  28 
Corn  Cakes,  31 
Corn  on  the  Cob,  189 
Corn  with  Ham,  186 
Corn,  Sweet,  185 
Corned  Beef,  214 
Cottage  Cheese  Salad,  161 
Cranberry  Pie,   151 
Cranberries,  Stewed,  127 
Cream  Pie,  95 
Cream  Frosting,   121 
Cream   Fudge   Frosting,   120 
Crullers,  47 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes,  31 
Cucumber,  Pickles,  77 

Salad,   161 

Sauce,  169 
Custard  Pie,  150 
Custards,  Baked,   104 

Baked  Caramel,  104 

Baked  Chocolate,  105 

Raisin,  105 

Steamed,   103 

Steamed  Caramel,  104 

Steamed   Chocolate,   104 
Cup  Cakes,  43 

Date  Pudding,  97 
Cookies,  45 
Filling,   123 
and  Nut  Sauce,  170 
Salad,  156 


288 


INDEX 


Dill   Pickles,  77 
Doughnuts,  48 

Fancy,  48 

Potato,  47 

Raised,  23 

Sour  Milk,  48 
Dried  Beef,  215 

Gravy,  134 
Dried  Peach  Butter,  86 
Ducks,  Wild,  142 
Dumplings,  Berry,  99 

Cornmeal,   180 

Fruit,  27 

King  Apple,  99 

Plain,  27,  179 

Steamed,  27 
Dutch  Apple  Cake,  98 

Eggs,  Baked,   114 

Coddled,   115 

Hard   Cooked,    114 

Scalloped,  116 

Shirred,    16 

Soft  Cooked,   114 

Tomato,  116 

with  Cheese.  114 

with  Peas,   117 
Eggnog,   10 
Eggplant,  Fried,   190 
Egg  Sauce,  168 

Fall  Salad,  156 

Fig  Sandwiches,  165 

Pudding,  96 
Fillings,   121 
Fish,  Boiled,  137 

Pan  Broiled,   138 

Sauted,   138 
Fritters,   100 
Fruits,  Apple  Sauce,  126 

Apples  en  Casserole,   126 

Baked  Apples,  125 

Baked  Apple  Variations,  125 

Baked  Rhubarb,    127 

Boiled  Apples,  126 

Fried  Apples,  127 

Mammy's  Baked  Apples,  126 

Orange  Flavored  Prunes,  127 

Salpicon,    127 

Stewed    Cranberries,    127 

Stewed  Prunes,   127 
Fruit  Butters,  85 

Cider,  87 


Fruit  Filling,  123 

Foundation  Drink,  9 

Fritters,  100 

PuflFs,  95 

Salad,  157 

Sauce,  172 

Tapioca,  96 
Fudge  Frosting,  120 

Hot  Sauce,  170 

Garden  Greens,   188 
Gelatin  Dishes,  Banana  Bavarian, 
112 

Grape  Bavarian,  113 

Lemon  Jelly,  110 

Lemon   Sponge,    111 

Orange  Bavarian,  112 

Orange  Jelly,  111 

Orange  Sponge,  111 

Peach  Bavarian,   113 

Pineapple   Whip,    112 

Strawberrv   Bav'arian,   112 

Vanilla  Jelly,   111 
Gingerbread,  42 

Chocolate,  43 

Coffee,  43 

Fruit,  43 
Ginger  Cookies.  46 
Gingersnaps,   46 
Graham  Bread,  17 
Grape,  Bavarian,   113 

Juice  Delicious,  9 
Griddle  Cakes,  Buckwheat,  30-31 

Corn,  31 

Crumb,  31 

Rice,  31 

Sour  Milk,  30 

Sweet  Milk,   30 
Green  Tomato  Mincemeat,  151 

Ham,  Baked  in  Cider,  132 

Casserole  of,  134 

Fried,  135 

and  Egg   Sandwiches,    166 

Hot  Sandwiches,   166 

with  Potatoes,  133 
Headcheese.  213 
Hermits,  45 

Hominy  en  Casserole,  52 
Honev  Icing,   123 
Hot  Slaw,  159 

Ice  Cream,  Caramel,  107 
Chocolate,  107 


INDEX 


289 


Ice  Cream    {Continued) 

Neapolitan,   106 

Peach,   107 

Philadelphia,  106 

Pineapple,  107 

Sandwiches,   165 

Strawberry,   107 
Icings,   119 

Boiled,  119 

Honey,  123 

Lightning,    122 

Marshmallow,  123 

Orange,   124 

Sour  Cream.   123 
Irish  Stew,   130 

Jam,   85 

Rolls,  27 

Winter,  86 
Jellied  Chicken,   157 
Jelly,  Apple,  90 

Cherry,   92 

Crab  Apple,  90 

Cranberry,  93 

Mint,  92 

Orange,  92 

Quince,  91 

Rhubarb,   92 

Small  Fruit,  90 

Strawberry,  91 
Jelly  Jumbles,  44 
Jelly  Making,  88 

Lard,  214 

Lemon  Filling.  122 

Jelly,   110 

Pie  billing,  150 

Sponge,  111 

Sandwiches,  165 

Whey  Pie,  148 
Lemonade,  8 

Grandmother's,  9 

Grape,  8 

Honey,  8 
Lettucel  Boiled.  188 
Lima  Beans  Delicious,  186 
Liver  Sausage.  213 
Lucy's  Walnut  Bread,  29 

Macaroni  and  Cheese,  117 
Baked,  51 
Boiled,  51 
Browned,  51 
Italian,  52 


Macaroni    (Continued) 

with  Pork  Chops,  52 

with  Salmon,  52 
Maple  Cream  Frosting,  121 

Fudge  Frosting,  121 

Squares,  56 
Marmalade,  Prune,  86 

Splendo,  85 
Marshmallow  Icing,  123 
Marshmallows,  61 
Measuring  Foods,  3 
Meat  Pie  Coyering,  27 
Meats,  Baked  Hamburg,  129 

Baked  Pork  Chops,  134 

Baked  Spareribs,  134 

Beef  Jelly,  131 

Braised  Heart,  130 

Breaded  Pork  Chops,   135 

Beefsteak,  135 

Dried  Beef  Gravy,  134 

Flank  Steak  en  Casserole,  132 

Fried  Ham,  135 

Ham  Baked  in  Cider,  132 

Hamburg  Balls,  134 

Irish  Stew,  130 

Mexican  Beef,  133 

Pigs  in  Blankets,  132 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef,  131 

Pot  Roast  with  Vegetables,  131 

Roast  Beef,  128 

Roast  Loin  Pork,  129 

Roast  Pork,   128 

Roast  Veal.   128 

Rump  Roast.   129 

Sausage  Stuffed  Apples,  133 

Scotch  Stew.  130 
Scrapple,    133 

Swiss  Steak,  129 

Veal  Jelly,  131 
Meringue,   152 
Milk.  Flavored,  10 

Shake.  10 

Spiced,  10 

Toast.  33 
Mince  Meat,  151,  217 

Rolls,  23 
Mints.  59 
Muffins,  Apple,  24 
Berry,  24 
Buttermilk.  25 
Cornmeal,  24 
English  Toasted,  22 
Fruit.  24 
Graham,  24 


290 


INDEX 


Muffins   (Continued) 

Oatmeal,  25 

Plain,  24 

Squash,  25 
Mush  Sticks,  53 
Mustard  Pickles, 


78 


Noodles,  180 
Nut  Bread,  29 


Oatmeal   Bread,  20 

Rocks,  46 
Omelet,  Bread  and  Jelly,  116 

Fancy,  115 

Plain,  115 

Potato,  115 

Rice,  116 
Onions,  Creamed,  184 
Orange,  Bavarian,  112 

Filling,  124 

Jelly,  111 

Pectin,  91 

Peel,  Candied,  64 

Pie,  150 

Sponge,  111 
Oven  Temperatures,  4 
Oyster  Stew,  175 

Parkerhouse  Rolls   (Quick),  17 

(Sponge  Method),  18 
Parsley  Sauce,  168 
Partridge,  143 
Pastry,  Apple  Pie,  147 

Berry  Pie,  147 

Butterscotch  Filling,  149 

Chocolate  Pie,  149 

Cranberrv  Pie,  151 

Custard  Pie,   150 

Dorothy's,  147 

English  Apple  Pie,  148 

Lemon  Pie  Filling,  150 

Lemon  Whey  Pie,  148 

Lucile's  Apple  Pie,  148 

Orange  Pie,  150 

Pineapple  Pie,  149 

Plain,  146 

Prune  Pie.  150 

Pumpkin  Pie,  147 

Raised,  147 

Raisin  Pie,  150 

Rhubarb  Pie,  152 

Shells,  152 

Sweet,  146 
Peach  Bavarian,  113 


Peach  Shortcake,  94 
Peanut  Brittle,  57 
Pear  Honey,  87 
Pears,  Candied,  63 
Peas,  Buttered,  182 

New,  190 
Pectin,  Apple,  91 

Orange,  91 
Peppermint  Circles,  56 
Peppers,  Stuffed,  183 
Pickled  Fruits,  82 

Peaches,  82 

Pears,  82 
Pickled  Pigs'  Feet,  212 
Pickles,  Beet,  78 

Cantaloupe,  83 

Cucumber,  77 

Dill,  77 

Mustard,  78 

Sweet  Sliced  Cucumbers,  78 
Pineapple,  Candied,  63 

Cream,  98 

Juice,  9 

Pie,  149 

Salad,  160 

Whip,  112 
Pinwheels,  26 
Plum  Conserve,  84 
Popcorn  Balls,  61 
Pork,  Baked  Chops,  134 

Chop  Sandwiches,    166 

Baked  Spareribs,  134 

Breaded  Chops,  135 

Roast,  128 

Roast  Loin,  129 
Potato,  Bessie's,  184 

Creamed,  182 

Doughnuts,  47 

and  Egg  Salad,  155 

Escalloped,   190 

French  Fried,  183 

au  Gratin,  191 

Hashed,  187 

Lyonnaise,  187 

Omelet,  115 

Oven  Fried,  181 

Salad,  158 

with  Sausage,  187 

Stuffed,  191 
Potted  Pigeons,  143 
Poultry,  Chicken  Friccassee,  136 

Chicken  Goulash,  136 

Ford  County's  Favorite,  136 

Roast  Fowl,  136 


INDEX 


291 


Poultry    ( Continued ) 

Smothered  Chicken,  136 
Prairie  Chicken  or  Grouse,  142 
Pralines,  61 
Prune  Pie,  150 
Prunes,  Orange  Flavored,  127 

Stewed,  127 
Puddings,  Apple,    100 

Blueberry,  97 

Bread,  94 

Chocolate  Bread,  94 

Date,  97 

Fig,  96 

Indian,  98 

Lucy's,  101 

Plum,  102 

Prune,  100 

Steamed,  97 

Steamed  Fig,  100 
Pudding  Sauces,  Berry  Butter,  172 

Brown  Sugar,  172 

Caramel,  171 

Chocolate  Fudge,  171 

Cider,  173 

Foamy  Egg,  173 

Fruit,  172 

Hard,  172 

Lemon,  171 

Nutmeg,   171 

Vanilla,  170 
Pumpkin  Butter,  87 
Pumpkin  Pie,  147 

Quail,  Broiled,  142 

on  Toast,  141 

Roasted,  142 

Mrs.  Rankin's,  141 
Quick  Meals,  206 
Quince  Honey,  87 

Rabbit,  Baked.  140 

Browned,  140 

Chop  Suey,  140 

Hawaiian  Style,  141 
Raisin  Bread,  20 

Eggless,  20 
Raisin  Coffee  Bread,  19 

Cookies,  46 

Custard,  105 

Pie,  150 
Rarebit,  117 
Raspberry  Juice,  9 

Preserves,  84 
Recipes  for  Little  Girls,  201 


Relish,  Delicious,  79 

Pepper  and  Onion,  79 

Tomato,  79 
Rhubarb  Pie,  152 
Rice.  Boiled,  51 

Country  Style,  54 

Griddle  Cakes,  31 

Omelet,  116 

Patties,  53 

Spanish,  53 

Waffles,  32 

with  Cheese,  53 
Rolls,  Cinnamon,  18 

Clover  Leaf,  19 

Crescents,   19 

Dinner,  18 

Jam,  27 

Kolaches,  22 

Mincemeat,  23 

Parkerhouse,   17,   18 
Rye  Bread.  17,  21 


Salad,  Apple  and  Celery,  156 
Apple  and  Cabbage,  160 
Asparagus.  158 
Banana.   150 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing,  154 
Cabbage  and  Pineapple,  155 
Cabbage.  155 
Celery,  158 
Chicken,  157 
Cottage  Cheese,  161 
Cole  Slaw,  159 
Cucumber,  161 
Date,   156 
Dreamland,  160 
Dressing  for  Cabbage,  155 
Dressing  of  the  Fairies,  160 
Fall  Salad,  156 
Farmers'  Favorite,  161 
Finger,  161 

French  Salad  Dressing,  153 
Fruit,  157 
Hot  Slaw.  159 
Mattie's   Fruit  Salad,   160 
Mayonnaise,  154 
:Moided  Salmon,  159 
Pineapple.  160 
Potato,  158 
Potato  and  Egg,  155 
Russian  Salad  Dressing,  155 
Salmon,  158 
Spinach,  157 


292 


INDEX 


Salad    {Continued) 

Thousand  Island  Dressing,  154 

Tomato,  158 

Turkey,  157 

Vegetable,  157 

Whipped  Cream  Dressing,  154 

White,  156 
Salmon,  Creamed,  139 

Fluff,  138 

Molded,  159 

Pie,  138 

Salad,  158 
Sandwich,  Bean,  162,  164 

Beef,  163 

Celery,  163 

Chicken,  164,  165 

Cottage  Cheese,  163 

Date,  163 

Date,  Chopped,  164 

Egg,  163 

Fig,  165 

Frosting,  164 

Fruit,  163 

Ham,  163 

Ham  and  Egg,  166 

Hot  Ham,  166 

Hot  Chicken,  165 

Ice  Cream,  165 

Lemon,  165 

Maple  Sugar,  163 

Peanut  and  Banana,  162 

Pork,  166 

Pork  Chop,  166 

Prune,  163 

Raisin,  164 

Salmon,  163 

Raisins  and  Xuts,  164 

Sausage,  166 

Spinach,  163 

Sponge  Cake,  164 

Whipped  Cream,  165 
Sausage,  212 

Casings,  212 

Sandwiches,  166 

Stuffed  Apples,  133 
Sauce,  Brittle  Nut,  170 

Chocolate,  169 

Cucumber,  169 

Date  and  Nut,  170 

Egg,  168 

Hot  Cocoa,  169 
Hot  Fudge,  170 

Peach,  95 

Parsley,  168 


Sauce  {Continued) 

Tomato,  169 

White,  199 

White,  for  Creamed  Dishes,  167 

White,  for  Cream  Soups,  167 

White,  for  ScaUoped  Dishes,  168 

White,  for  Souffles,  168 

White,  for  Croquettes,  168 
Scalloped  Eggs,  116 
Scones,  28 
Scotch  Stew,  130 
Scrapple,  133 
Shortcake,  101 

Peach,  94 
Smoking  Meat,  216 
Snipe  and  Woodcock,  142 
Soup,  Brown  Beef  Stock,  178 

Cabbage,  177 

Celery,  177 

Chicken,  178 

Cream,  174 

Cream  of  Tomato,  174 

Lima  Bean,  176 

Onion,  177 

Pea,  175 

Peanut  Butter,  175 

Potato,  175 

Pumpkin,  176 

Spinach,  177 

Squash,  176 

Sweet  Potato,  176 

Tomato,  178 

Vegetable,  176 
Sour  Cream  Icing,  123 
Spaghetti,  Spanish,  51 
Spareribs,   134 
Spiced  Apples,  82 
Spinach,  Buttered,  182 

en  Casserole,   188 

Creamed,  189 

Salad,  157 
Sponge  Cake,  42 

Sandwiches,  164 
Squabs,  143 
Squash,  Steamed,  185 
Steak,  Flank  en  Casserole,  132 

Swiss,  129 
Strawberry,  Bavarian,  112 

Jelly,  91 

Preserves,  84 
Stuflfings,  Apple,  145 

Bread,  144 

Celerv,  144 

Chestnut,  145 


INDEX 


293 


Stuffings  (Continued) 

Cracker,  145 

Onion,  144 

Oyster,  144 

Peanut,  145 

Potato,  144 

Walnut,  145 
Succotash,  192 
Sweet  Potato  Balls,  187 

en  Casserole,  183 

Festive,  190 

Glazed,  185 
Syrup,  Apple.  99 

Fruit,  62 

Jam,  62 

Sugar,  62 

Winter  Fruit,  62 

Table  of  Equivalents,  3 
Table  of  Quantities,  200 
Taflfy,  58 
Tarts,  149 
Tea,  6 

Iced,  7 

Punch,  9 

Russian,  8 
Toast,  Dry,  33 

Cinnamon,  33 

French,  33 

Milk,  33 

Tomato,  33 
Tomato,  Cream  of.  Soup,  174 

Eggs,  116 

Escalloped,  184 

Salad,  158 

Sauce,  169 

Toast,  33 
Turkey  Salad,  157 
Turnips,  Chopped,  191 

Delicious,  183 

Vanilla,  Jelly,  111 

Wafers,  47 
Veal,  Roasted,  192 


Vegetable  Combination,  192 

Garnish,  188 

Salad,  157 
Vienna  Sausage,  215 
Vinegar,  Cider,   193 

Corn,  196 

Cucumber,  195 

Fruit,  194 

Gooseberry,  195 

Horseradish,  195 

Molasses,  195 

Nasturtium,  194 

Peach,  194 

Quick  Cider,  195 

Raspberrv,  194 

White  Raisin,  196 


Waffles,  Plain,  32 

Rice,  32 

Sweet  Milk,  32 

Sweet  Potato,  32 
Wash  for  Keeping  Meat,  216 
Watermelon  Conserve,  85 
White  Sauce,  199 
Wild  Game,  Baked  Rabbit,  140 

Broiled  Quail,   142 

Browned  Rabbit,  140 

Ducks,  142 

Mrs.  Rankin's  Quail,  141 

Partridge,  143 

Potted  Pigeons,  143 

Prairie  Chicken,  142 

Quail  on  Toast,  141 

Rabbit  Chop  Suey,  140 

Rabbit,  Hawaiian  Style,  141 

Roasted  Quail,  142 

Snipe  and  Woodcock,  142 

Squabs,  143 


Yeast,  Buttermilk,  14 
Dry,  14 
Potato,  15 


PART  TWO 


Almond  Wash,  272 

Arm  and  Hand  Bleach,  272 

Astringent,  Hand,  270 

Baby's  First  Bed,  Making,  233 
Baby's  Summer  Nest,  267 


Bags,  Making,  231 

Bath  Water,  To  Soften,  274 

Blackheads,  272 

Bleach,  Horseradish,  269 

Bleach,  Lemon,  269 

Bleaching  Yellowed  Fabrics,  243 


294 


INDEX 


Bran  Water,  270 
Bread  Mixer,  257 
Bread,  Salt  Rising,  225 
Brushes  for  Cleaning,  259 
Butter,  Sweetening  Rancid,  237 
To  Put  Down,  224 

Cake  Mixers,  257 
Cake,  To  Keep,  Fresh,  224 
Canning  Outfits,  264 
Carpet  Sweepers,  258 
Cellar,  Free  from  Dampness,  226 
Cellars,  Making  Warm,  233 
Cider,  Making,  228 
Cider,  To  Keep  Sweet,  224 
Cloth,  Rolling,  263 
Colors,  Setting,  242 
Complexion    Clearer,    Grandmoth- 
er's, 274 
Cooking  for  the  Sick,  276 
Cooking  Utensils,  259 
Cottage  Cheese,  230 
Cucumber  Cream,  268 

Dandruff,  271 
Dehydrating  Foods,  247 
Dieting,  274 
Dish  Drainer,  261 
Drawers,  Loosening,  234 
Dumb  Waiter,  255 
Dust  Cloth,  Preparing,  239 
Dust  Pan,  258 

Egg  Candler,  Making,  230 
Egg  Shampoo,  271 
Eggs,  Preserving,  226 
Electrical  Appliances,  264 

Fireless  Cooker,  252 

Homemade,  252 
Fish,  Removing  Odors,  233 
Floor,  Removing  Blemishes,  228 

Caring  for,  265 

Filling  Cracks,  234 

Mops,  259 
Fly  Killer,  222 

Food  Grinders  Made  Useful,  262 
Fresh  Berry  Lotion,  268 
Furniture,     Removing    Blemishes, 
227 

Polish,  231 

Gilt  Picture  Frames,  Renovating, 

238 
Glycerin  Wash,  271 


Hair  Brush,  Dry  Cleaning,  273 
Hair,  Keeping  in  Curl,  272 
Hands,  After  Dish  Washing,  273 

Hard,  270 

Wash,  273 
Hats,  Re-sizing  and  Bleaching,  227 
Hides,  Tanning,  226 
Herbs,  Drying.  235 

Powdering,  235 
Hominy,  To  Make,  225 
Honey,  for  Hands,  270 

Mask,  270 

Ice  Cream  Freezers,  248 
Ironing  Board  Cover,  266 
Ironing  Machines,  257 
Irons,  Cleaning,  234 
Self-Heating,  257 

Javelle  Water,  243 

Kerosene,  Stoves,  249 
Water  Heaters,  250 
Knife  Racks,  261 

Leather,   Removing   Mildew   from, 
230 
Preventing    Seats    from    Stick- 
ing, 230 
Waterproofing,  227 
Lettuce  Cream,  268 
Linoleum  Laying,  223 
Lye,  Making,^  22 8 

Mattress,  Cleaning,  231 
Milk,  of  Almonds,  272 

Remedies,  269 
Mirrors,  To  Resilver,  222 
Money,  Making,  232 
Mosquitoes,  Clearing  Room  of,  238 
Mucus,   Removing   from   Handker- 
chiefs, 244 

Oily  Hair,  273 

Onion  Odor,  To  Remove,  273 

Onion  Tonic,  271 

Packing  Books  and  Pictures,  238 
Pan  Holders,  235 
Perspiration,   Excessive,   270 
Pigments  for  Stains,  237 
Pillows    and    Feathers,    Washing, 

243 
Plaster,  Repairing,  237 


INDEX 


291 


Plunger,  249 

Polishes  for  Woodwork,  237 
Potato  Mask,  270 
Pressure  Cookers,  251 
Prop  for  Sick  Person,  266 
Putty,   Removing,   238 

Refrigerators,  Care  of,  254 

Making  an  Iceless,  255 
Rose  Jar,  232 
Rugs,  Mending,  236 

lo  Resize,  223 

Sachets,  Complexion,  273 

Sauerkraut,  To  Make,  225 

Scorch,  Removing,  244 

Sewing  Machines,  266 

Shelves,  Narrow,  263 

Shoes,  Cleaning,  233 

Shower  Bath,  265 

Silverware,  To  Clean,  222 

Skin  Tonic,  271 

Small  but  Helpful  Equipment,  261 

Soap,  Jelly,  241 

from  Cracklings,  240 

Laundry  from  Fal,  240 

Toilet,  221 

without  Boiling,  241 
Sponge  Box,  Making,  256 
Stains,  Removing,  244 


Starch,  Making,  241 

Rice,  242 

Tinted,  242 

Uncooked,  242 
Steamers,  Laver,  253 
Stool,  The  Kitchen,  267 
Strawberry  Lotion,  268 
Sunburn,  274 

Table  Pad,  264 
Teeth,  To  Whiten,  274 
Tray,  Wheeled,  262 

Vacuum,  Bottles  and  Pitchers,  263 

Cleaners,  258 

Pails,  263 
Varnish,  Removing,  237 
Vegetables,  Storing,  235 

Wall  Brushes,  258 

Removing  Grease  Spots  from,  235 

Sizing,  229 
Wall  Paper,  Mending,  234 

Paste  for,  222 
Washing  Machines,  246 
Weavils,  To  Destroy,  221 
Whitening  Flannels  and  Silks,  241 
Whitewash,  Making,  239 
Wrinkles,  272 

Preventing,  269 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  697  7 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


