fc -immmmmmh 


i^^y^^y^^^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/farmhomesindoorsOOIelarich 


FAEM    HOMES 


INDOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 


BY 


E.    H.    LELAND 


/iA^«^ 


ZLLTTSTRATBD.         /V^ 


NEW   YORK: 

ORANGE    JUDD    COMPANY, 

1890. 


J' 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1881,  by  tl 

ORANGE   JUDD    COMl^ANY, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


S6 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  I.— Building. 
The  Site— The  Plan— The  Four  Essentials— Sunlight— Halls— Bath- 
rooms—Ventilation— Drainage  and  Preventable  Filth 9 

CHAPTER  IL— Finishing. 

Calcimine— An  Excellent  Whitewash— Borders— Wood-work— Man- 
tels—Hall  Windows 82 

CHAPTER  m.— Furnishing. 
The  Spare  Bedroom— The  Boys'  Room— The  Old  People's  Room- 
Mother's  Room— The  Girls'  Room— The  Kitchen— The  Dining- 
room  —The  Parlor 41 

CHAPTER  IV.— The  Dairy -room  and  Butter-making 75 

CHAPTER  v.— Cheese 80 

CHAPTER  VI.— The  Flower  Garden. 
Hardy  Bulbs  and  Plants— Annuals— Summer  Bulbs— Hardy  Shrubs- 
Climbing  Vines 82 

CHAPTER  VII.— Window  Plants. 
Geraniums— Fuchsias— Heliotropes— Foliage  Plants— Monthly  Roses 
—The  Calla— Suggestions 98 

CHAPTER  VIII.— The  Vegetable  Garden. 

Asparagus— Beans— Beets  —  Cabbage— Cauliflower — Celery— Cucum- 
bers—Sweet  Corn— Carrots— Egg  Plant— Lettuce— Melons— Onions 
— Parsnips  —  Parsley — Peas  —  Peppers  —  Potatoes —  Pumpkins — 
Radishes  —  Spinach  —  Squashes  —  Turnips  — Tomatoes— Herbs — 

How  to  make  a  Hot-bed 105 

(V) 


TI  TABLE  OF  COJrTEXTS. 

CHAriKK  IX.— SjfALL  Fbots  ajtd  Gabdkh  Fbot  Tbses. 

Applw— fierries — Gnpefr—Fean— Flams— Peachfis. 113 

CHAPTER  X.— Ths  Bast  Foods— Astd  Soms  Bist  Msthods  of  Fam- 

PABIS6  TlTKlf, 

Preaerred— Canned  Fruits— Choice 
and  OitaniM— Tlie  Value  of  Milk  and  Eggs— 
i  Plid£iig»—Piea— Cake— Home-made  Can- 
-A  few  Good  Saaces  for  fish  and 
Meato— Beef,  Mutton,  Fowls,  etc— Vegetables 117 

CHAPTEB  XL— A  Few  Simple  LuxcxnaL 
An   lee-boose— A    Home-made   Befrigerafav— A    Water-filter-  Ice- 
crcaaa  wikhont  a  Freezer— Cool  Houses  in  BomBer— Booms  with- 
Ofot  Flics    A  Pot-pounri  or  Seent  Jai^-Grapes  and  Peais  for  the 
Hofidajs— Wanned  Bedrooms 171 

CHAPTER  XIL— Fabm  Nki6H]ioshood6 178 

CHAPTER  XTTT.— To  Fasmzbs'  Wmsa. 18S 

CHAPTEB   XIY.^Bkaxisg  asd  Tradokg  of  CmT.T>Kmy. 198 

CHAPTER   XV.—RuLMB  woa,  Right  Lttesg 208 


(VIII) 


FARM   HOMES 


IN. DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 


CHAPTER  I. 
BUILDING. 


Some  one  has  intimated  that  he  who  has  eyes  for  seeing 
is  a  very  wealthy  man — he  owns  the  landscape  !  Whoever 
is  blessed  with  eyes,  then,  owes  it  to  God  and  to  his  fel- 
low-man that  he  should  contribute  his  mite  of  beauty 
and  cheerfulness  to  the  world  around  him. 

In  no  way  can  he  do  this  with  more  telling  effect  than 
in  creating  a  lovely  home,  in  building  a  comfortable  and 
attractive  house,  and  making  the  most  and  best  of  its 
surroundings.  No  matter  how  small  his  possessions  may 
be,  or  how  plain  and  cheap  his  materials,  it  is  always 
possible  for  every  farmer  to  make  the  landscape  a  little 
more  pleasing,  from  the  fact  of  his  having  a  hand  in  it. 

If  this  seems  a  small  achievement,  and  one  without 
**  profit,"  let  the  reader  call  to  mind  those  farm-houses 
— seen  too  often — whose  ricketty  fences,  unkempt  door- 
yards,  and  scattered  tools,  are  an  ugly  blot  upon  nature's 
fair  page,  and  I  am  sure  he  will  feel  the  great  moral  as 
well  as  financial  meaning  that  lies  in  even  the  humblest 
expressions  of  beauty,  thrift,  and  order — a  meaning  that 
(9) 


10  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

announces  pretty  clearly,  in  farming  regions,  the  differ- 
ence bet<\reen  the  man  and  the  sluggard — ^between  the 
genuine  and  worthy  ^Mord  of  the  soil"  and  the  slack- 
Bouled  pauper  who  makes  no  honorable  return  to  the 
acres  that  feed  him. 

It  is  a  great  thing  to  build  the  house  that  is  to  be  one's 
home.  There  are  few  pleasures  so  unalloyed  as  that  of 
selecting  the  ground,  laying  the  foundation,  and  watch- 
ing day  by  day  the  growth  of  wall  and  roof  that  go  to 
form  one's  own  secure  kingdom  through  the  years  to 
come.  And  it  is  a  pleasure  that  cannot  be  entered  upon 
too  seriously.  If  there  are  to  be  but  three  rooms,  they 
will  constitute  the  home,  and  the  opportunity  exists  to 
make  them  either  charmingly  cozy  and  cheerful,  or  de- 
pressingly  ugly.  Therefore,  even  a  small  hoUse-plan 
should  be  well  considered.  A  house-plan  is  easily  torn . 
down  and  remodelled ;  it  costs  nothing  to  add  a  paper 
window  here,  or  to  remove  a  paper  partition  there ;  a 
pencil  line  changes  a  staircase  or  enlarges  the  dining- 
room  ;  a  few  moments  of  inexpensive  reflection  lets  the 
morning  sunlight  into  a  cheerless  kitchen,  builds  a 
clothes-press,  and  remodels  the  pantry;  or,  if  something 
better  is  thought  of,  the  whole  establishment  can  be 
easily  tossed  aside,  and  not  even  the  shadow  of  the  house- 
mover's  bill  presents  itself.  But,  having  put  a  plan  into 
solid  timber  and  mortar,  and  then  coming  to  find  how 
greatly  the  house  might  be  improved — ah,  woe  the  day  ! 
It  is  no  idle  thing  to  meddle  with  the  stair-cases  and 
partitions,  and  the  gloomily-lighted  kitchen. 

THE  SITE. 

The  building  site  is,  of  course,  the  first  thing  to  be  con- 
sidered. One's  first  resolution  regarding  it  should  be  to 
avoid  all  anxiety  to  jump  into  the  road.  A  house  crowding 
upon  the  highway  loses  all  dignity  and  home-like  repose, 
and  gains  nothing  but  dust.     Such  choice  of  location  may 


BUILDIXG.  .  11 

possibly  be  an  hereditary  trait,  coming  down  from  that 
long  ago  time,  when  houses  grew  up  along  the  faintly- 
marked  trails  of  emigration,  and  closely  clung  there,  as 
if  in  mortal  fear  of  savages  and  wild  animals  lurking  in 
the  back-ground.  But  in  these  peaceful  days,  it  is  in 
better  taste  to  sit  back  in  a  leisurely  and  composed  way, 
as  if  not  afraid  of  one's  own  fields  and  woodlands,  but  at 
home  and  happy  with  them.  Let  no  site  be  chosen  be- 
cause of  its  proximity  to  the  road,  or  because  it  is 
'*  handy  to  water."  Select  the  finest  spot  on  the  farm — 
a  place  combining,  if  possible,  elevation,  eastern  and 
southern  frontage,  natural  trees,  a  pleasant  outlook,  and 
make  all  else  conform  to  it: 

If  there  is  a  stream  of  water  or  a  lake  in  the  vicinity, 
try  to  have  a  glimpse  of  it  for  the  living-room  windows. 
A  landscape  without  a  bit  of  water  in  it  is  almost  as  piti- 
ful as  the  face  of  a  blind  man,  as  any  one  will  testify  who 
has  once  lived  by  babbling  brooks  or  near  the  shores  of 
lake  or  ocean. 

There  are  opportunities  for  improving  all  building 
sites.  The  farmer  priding  himself  upon  his  ^'^  good, 
hard  common  sense,"  may  sneer  at  the  term  "landscape 
gardening,"  but  properly  pruned  trees,  a  well-ktpt 
stretch  of  turf,  and  shrubberies  planted  in  the  right 
place,  are  just  ^s  much  to  his  credit  as  a  good  barn  or 
staunch  fences.  Landscape  gardening  need  not  neces- 
sarily mean  littering  one's  grounds  with  rubbishy  rock- 
eries and  puny  evergreens,  or  cutting  them  up  with  de- 
vious paths  and  drives.  To  bring  the  best  into  notice, 
and  to  soften  or  put  out  of  sight  that  which  is  not  attrac- 
tive, is  all  that  is  required.  Simple  but  correct  touches 
will  tell.  A  light  foot-bridge  thrown  over  the  brook 
where  it  winds  into  view  between  the  willows  of  the  mea- 
dow, two  or  three  rustic  seats  grouped  under  some  near 
shade  tree,  a  great  vase  (made  of  a  section  of  hollow 
^  ^Ued  and  surrounded  with  hardy,  climbing  vines. 


12  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

and  placed  near  the  curve  of  the  carriage-way,  a  spacious 
sweep  of  beautiful  turf  sloping  away  to  meet  the  darker 
verdure  of  a  leafy  hedge,  a  few  firs  or  pines  planted 
where  winter  sunsets  may  glow  through  them — these 
and  similarly  simple  "landscape"  touches  add  wonder- 
fully to  the  attractions  of  a  farm-house,  and  mark  the 
difference  between  the  intelligent  and  progressive  farmer 
and  the  dull  plodder  who  never  lifts  his  eyes  above  the 
gi'ound,  and  believes  in  letting  well  enough  alone. 

THE   PLAN. 

After  the  site  is  decided  upon,  and  one  knows  the 
point  of  compass  he  is  to  face— which  I  sincerely  hope  is 
squarely  south  or  squarely  east,  or  squarely  anywhere, 
rather  than  a  disagreeable  "bias,"  which  always  makes 
the  sun  seem  out  of  gear  and  the  pole-star  hopelessly 
dislodged — let  the  plans  be  brought  out  and  studied  for  a 
while. 

Here,  among  house-plans,  a  worthy  field  is  open  to 
women.  They,  who  live  so  constantly  within  doors, 
should  have  a  controlling  voice  in  all  interior  arrange- 
ments. They  know,  or  ought  to  know,  how  a  certain 
number  of  rooms  can  be  planned,  so  as  to  secure  con- 
venience and  cheerfulness  to  their  occupants,  and  they 
will  naturally  be  more  thoughtful,  as  architects,  of  all 
details  pertaining  to  comfort,  and  the  easier  carrying  on 
of  household  routine.  The  man-mind  always  means 
well,  as  a  general  thing,  but  it  is  sometimes  too  grand  to 
focus  itself  upon  an  easy  angle  in  a  staircase,  a  comer- 
cupboard,  the  one  best  place  for  the  pantry-window,  or 
the  extra  door  that  saves  so  many  steps  for  tired  feet. 
Things  like  these  would  be  taken  into  consideration,  if 
women  would  plan  their  own  homes,  or,  at  any  rate, 
have  a  voice  in  regard  to  some  of  the  details  of  home- 
building.  It  ought  to  enter  into  every  woman's  education 
to  know  how  to  plan  a  thoroughly  cheerful,  convenient, 


BUILDING.  13 

and  healthful  house  ;  to  know  how  to  make  the  best  of 
even  a  three-roomed  cottage,  as  well  as  the  statelier  man- 
sion which  it  may  be  her  good  fortune  to  possess. 

Young  country-girls,  it  rests  largely  with  you  to  up- 
lift and  adorn  and  dignify  farm-life  ! — to  so  refine  and 
brighten  and  enrich  that  which  is  now  so  often  bleak  and 
ugly  and  barren,  that  your  brothers,  mstead  of  breaking 
away  to  clerkships  and  offices,  or  something  worse,  will  be 
loth  to  leave  their  noble  farm-homes  ;  and  you  yourselves 
will  find  something  better  there  than  in  the  back-rooms 
of  milliners'  shops,  or  the  unhealthf  ul  slavery  of  a  dress- 
maker's sewing-machine. 

TJiere  is  a  great  deal  of  talk  in  the  household  depart- 
ments of  newspapers  and  magazines  about  making  homes 
attractive,  and  the  bulk  of  it  is  in  regard  to  barrel-chairs, 
fancy  match-safes,  and  embroidered  lambrequins. 
These  things  are  well  enough  ;  but,  my  country-, 
girl,  go  you  much  deeper  than  this  line  of  decora- 
tion, and  begin  at  the  ground- work  of  things  !  Draw 
plans  of  your  future  home,  and  review  them  with  John 
or  Charles — or  whatever  his  dear  name  may  be — until  you 
have  one  so  good,  and  yet  so  in  keeping  with  the  money 
to  be  invested,  that  life  within  it  will  be  a  satisfaction 
and  a  blessing.  Build  a  permanent  home — or  the  begin- 
ning of  one — at  the  outset,  and  give  it  all  possible  graces, 
instead  of  settling  down  in  some  ugly  little  square  box 
of  a  **  temporary"  character,  witii  the  intention  of 
building  a  grand  house  when  the  '*  better  times"  come. 
The  Better  Times  are  when  youth  and  health  and  love 
join  hands,  and  set  out  upon  the  Journey  of  life  together. 
Build  the  home  now,  and  though  you  commence  with 
only  a  kitchen  and  a  bedroom,  the  seasons  will  come  and 
go,  bringing  their  gifts  of  improvement  and  beauty,  and 
thirty  years  hence  your  home  will  be  a  far  sweeter  and 
loA^lier  abode  than  any  grand  "  new  house,"  at  such  a 
time,  can  possibly  be. 


14 


PARM    HOMES,    IIN^-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 


THE   FOUR  ESSENTIALS. 

In  planning  a  house,  let  four  essential  points  be  kept 
in  view — Drainage,  Sunlight,  Ventilation,  and  a  Bath- 
room. These  features  can  be  compassed  even  in  the 
smallest  cottage,  and  yet  thousands  of  farm-houses  are 
being  completed  to-day  without  a  thought  of  them.  It  is 
cheering  to  reflect,  however,  that  other  thousands  of 
farm-houses  are  going  up  wherein  these  vital  considera- 
tions have  been  kept  first  and  foremost.  Progress  in 
building-reform  is  unnecessarily  slow,  especially  in  the 
new  Western  States,  and  wives  and  daughters  should  set 
themselves  to  thinking  and  studying  about  these  things, 
and  so  hasten  on  the  millenium  of  right  living. 

SUNLIGHT. 


The  sun,  if  you  will  only  open  your  house  to  him,  is  a 

faithful  physician,  who 
will  be  pretty  constant  in 
attendance,  and  who  will 
Bend  in  no  bills.  Many 
years  ago  glass  was  some- 
thing of  a  luxury,  but 
now  we  can  all  have  good- 
sized  windows,  and  plen- 
ty of  them,  at  moderate 
cost,  and  there  is  no  ex- 
cuse for  making  mere 
loop-holes,  through 
which  the  sun  can  cast 
but  half  an  eye,  and  from 
whicli  one  can  gain  only 


,/ 


Fig:.  1.— A   "  DESmABLE  SUBSTITUTE. 


narrow  glimpses  of  the  beautiful  outer  world. 

I  am  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  conservative 
character  of  many  country  people  to  know  that  expres- 
sions of  disdain  will  come  from  some  quarters  when  I 


BUILDIiq-G. 


it> 


mention  Bay  Windows.  Nevertheless  bay  mndows  a,re  a 
good  thing.  Their  eSect  is  very  mucli  like  letting 
heaven  into  one's  house,  at  least  it  ought  to  be  like  that, 
for  it  is  nothing  but  absurdity  and  wickedness  to  darken 
such  windows  with  shutters  or  heavy  curtains  until  only 
a  struggling  ray  of  sunlight  can  be  seen. 

If  bay  windows  are  too  expensive,  a  very  desirable  sub- 
stitute can  be  had  by  placing  two  ordinary  sized  windows 


Fig".  2. — A    KITCUEN    WINDOW. 

sicfe  by  side  with  a  wide  capacious  ledge  at  the  bottom 
for  seats  or  for  plants. 

A  room  with  a  window  like  this  cannot  fail  to  be 
cheery,  and  its  effect  in  a  simple  cottage  house  is  quite 
sumptuous.  There  is  likewise  in  its  favor  the  fact  that 
it  is  less  exposed  than  the  deep  bay  window  to  outer  heat 
and  cold. 

In  a  kitchen  or  in  a  child's  bedroom,  or  in  an  attic 
where  the  walls  are  low,  two  half-wmdows  set  side  by 
side  and  made  to  slide  or  to  open  on  hinges,  admit  a 
broad,  generous  light,  and  give  an  apartment  a  pretty 
and  pleasing  rustic  air. 

Let  the  builder  endeavor  to  have  all  rooms  in  daily  use. 


16 


FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOOES. 


NORTH. 


especially  bedrooms  and  sitting-rooms,  well  lighted  by 
the  sun.  "To  sleep  on  unsunned  beds  in  unsunned 
chambers,  and  to  work  day  after  day  in  Unsunned  rooms, 
is  the  unrepented  sin  of  half  the  nation,"  vigorously 
affirms  a  prominent  writer.  But  this  should  not  be  said 
of  that  portion  of  the  nation  living  in  the  country  far 
from  those  towering  brick  walls  whose  steps  take  hold  on 
basement  kitchens,  and  in  whose  depressing  shadows 
many  lives  must  necessarily  be  spent.  In  the  country, 
with  a  whole  sky  to  draw  from,  let  there  be  light!  If 
any  rooms  in  the  house  must  look  solely  to  the  north  for 

illumination,  let  them 
be  the  parlor  and  the 
spare  chamber.  People 
who  come  and  go  can 
be  cheerful  for  a  while 
in  a  north-windowed 
apartment,  but  the 
constant  dwellers  in  a 
house  need  its  sunniest 
rooms. 

Verandas  are  most 
desirable  on  the  south 
and  west  sides  of  a 
house,  for  while  they 
ward  off  the  mid-day 
heat  of  summer,  they 
still  freely  admit  the 
low  down  winter  sun. 
From  east  windows  we  can  hardly  have  too  much  light 
even  in  summer,  and  bedrooms  and  nurseries  should  be 
planned  to  receive  the  full  benefit  of  them. 

Here  is  an  example  of  a  farm-house,  large  and  well 
built,  so  far  as  material  and  finish  go,  that  for  want  of 
intelligence  and  forethought,  or  both,  is  almost  devoid  of 
sunlight  in  its  most  used  rooms. 


SOUTH.-FRONT. 
Fig.  3.— A  HOUSE  WITHOUT  SUNLIGHT. 


BUILDING. 


17 


NORTH. 


The  wide  veranda — very  pleasant  in  itself — shuts  off 
the  winter  sun  by  the  time  it  is  two  hours  high,  and  the 
rooms  are  arranged  with  such  ingenious  stupidity  that 
those  in  common  use  have  no  sunlight  whatever  for  the 
remainder  of  the  day.  To  be  sure,  in  summer  it  is  "de- 
lightfully cool "  in  this  house,  (so  it  is  in  most  caves 
and  dungeons  ! ) 
and  always  there 
is  some  one  of  the 
numerous  family 
"ailing"  within  its 
walls — which  is  not 
at    all    delightful. 

In  plan  number 
four  is  a  house  cost- 
ing many  hundreds 
less,  but  worth 
many  thousands 
more,  because  it  is 
so  cheerfully  and 
healthfully  light- 
ed. The  dining- 
room  —  which  in 
my  opinion  should 
always  have  a  large 
east  •  window  —  is 
the  least  pleasant, 
especially  on  rainy 
mornings  ;  but  a  fire  in  the  open  stove  or  fire-place,  and  the 
mirror  above  it  reflecting  the  window  opposite,  make  it  a 
very  tolerable  room.  On  the  second  floor  are  four  large 
sunny  bedrooms,  and  above  is  a  long,  well-lighted*  garret 
or  attic,  which  makes  a  fine  play-room  for  the  children 
in  stormy  weather. 

Plan  number  five  was  designed  for  a  young  farmer  of 
small  family  and  small  means,  and  Is  found  to  be  delight- 


SOUTH. 
Fig.    4.— A  WELL-LIGHTED  HOUSE. 

F,  Veranda ;  R.  Hall ;    S,  Sitting-room 
Dining-room  ;  B,  Bedroom  ;  c,  c.  Clothes-press 
and  Bath-room  ;   K,  Kitchen  ;  /*,  Pantry ;  Jf, 
Milk-room ;  W^  Wood-house. 


A 


18 


FARM    HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 


fully  bright  and  cosy.  A  wide-arched  door,  seldom 
closed,  between  the  sitting  and  dining-rooms  permits 
both  apartments  to  be  flooded  with  light  from  the  large 
south  window,  and  these,  together  with  the  west  bed- 


WEST. 


T7T 


t: 


r 


K       [ 


P    "^M 
I ^ 


w 


EAST. 
Fig.  5.— A  ONE-8TORT  HOUSE. 

X,  Portico  ;  S,  Sitting-room  ;  D,  Dining-room  ;   B,  B,  Bedrooms  ;  c,  c, 

Clothes-press  and  Bath-room  ;  K,  K,  Summer  and  Winter  Kitchens  ; 

P,  M,  Pantry  and  Milk-room ;  W,  Wood-house. 

room,  are  all  comfortably  warmed  in  winter  by  one  good 
wood  or  coal  stove. 

Number  six  is  the  ground  plan  of  a  small  house  perch- 
ed nest-like  upon  a  picturesque  knoll  with  its  dark  pines 
and  brilliant  maples.  Within  doors  it  is  quite  airy  and 
regal  because  of  its  high  walls,  wide  windows,  and  the 
graceful  arch  opening  opposite  the  entrance,  displaying 
the  gay  little  dining-room  with  its  large  east  window 
filled  with  plants.  On  the  second  floor  are  two  capacious 
bedrooms  and  a  small  room  for  clothing,  bedding,  etc. 
Among  small  farm-homes  one  seldom  sees  a  more 
thoroughly  satisfactory  plan  than  this — combining  as  it 
does  comfort,  cheapness,  and  economy.  A  man  and  wife 
just  beginning  house-keeping  might  exist  very  passably 
by  dispensing  with  the  upper  story  and  adding  a  small 
wing  for  kitchen  and  extra  bedroom,  devoting  the  space 
occupied  by  the  stair-case  to  china  and  linen  closets.  But 
the  cost  of  the  upper  floor  is  comparatively  small,  and  it 


BUILDING.  19 

ensures  pleasant  and  capacious  sleeping  rooms  for  the 
family  of  the  future. 

**What  a  pleasant  home  you  have  ! "  is  the  exclamation 
of  all  who  visit  this  house,  and  the  secret  of  its  peculiar 
charm  lies  in  the  fact  that  west. 

a  young  farmer's  wife  first 
dreamed  it  out  upon  paper 
until  she  had  cheerfulness 
and  utility  successfully 
combined.  Then  she  gave 
the  plan  to  her  husband —  § 
wise  and  appreciative  man. 
He  built  it  to  the  letter, 
and  neither  have  had  cause 
to  regret  this  little  branch- 
ing out  from  the  ordinary 

model  of  cheap  farm-houses 

,  T  ^JS,  Sittinff-room ;  B,  Bedroom :  c,  c, 

—namely,  a  parlor,  seldom    wardrobe  and  Bath-room ;   k,  D, 

used,  a  big  kitchen  where  ?;'^^"^;.rn"'  ^°*^  ^'^"*1>'  ^'^*^^^S; 

'  o  -^,  ^,  Milk-room  and  Pantry ;   Tr, 

the  steam  and  heat  of  wash-    Wood-hou&e  and  Summer  Kitchen  ; 

ing  and  cooking  makes  it  '  Portico, 

anything  but  pleasant  for  eating  purposes,  and  two  or 
three  ugly  little  sleeping-rooms  that  have  barely  space  for 
anything  but  beds. 

Just  here  I  want  to  enter  my  humble  protest  against 
any  parlor  that  pinches  and  stints  other  rooms  in  order 
to  exist.  First  secure  the  convenient  kitchen,  the  pleas- 
ant dining-room,  the  well-sunned  and  well-ventilated 
bedrooms,  the  bath-room,  the  ample  pantry  and  milk- 
room.  Then,  if  space  permits,  have  a  parlor  by  all 
means — as  pretty  a  parlor  as  possible — and  use  it.  It 
is  bad  taste  and  bad  morals  to  make  "  most  anything " 
answer  for  family  use  day  after  day,  while  the  best  room 
and  the  best  of  everything  is  sacredly  reserved  for  outside 
people,  people  who  are  not  greatly  benefited  after  all,  for 
when  we  visit  do  we  not  observe  that  it  is  the  cordial  hos- 


20 


PARM   nOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOOES. 


pitality,  the  friendly  talk,  the  simple,  easily  served  meal 
that  we  enjoy,  and  not  the  stiff  atmosphere  of  a  seldom 

used  room,  the  laborious- 

r 


Fig.- 7. 

X,  South  Porch  ;  R,  Recess  :  2),  Din- 
ing-room ;  jB,  Bedroom  ;  c,  Bath-room  ; 
K,  Kitchen ;  P,  Pantry ;  W,  Wood-shed. 


ly  prepared  dishes  and 
the  general  feeling  that 
we  are  creating  an  unusu- 
al and  perhaps  trouble- 
some stir  in  the  every 
day  lives  of  our  friends  ? 
Unless  a  home-keeper 
can  afford  to  keep  help 
and  so  find  time  to  enjoy 


her  parlor  with  her  family,  it  is  better  to  defer  such  an 
apartment.  A  cozy  little  nook  off  the  dining-room,  sepa- 
rated from  it  by  an  arched  space,  or  a  little  recess  with- 
out the  arch,  but  having  a 
pleasant  window  and  an  easy 
chair  or  two,  are  good  sub- 
stitutes. In  such  a  place  a 
visitor  can  sit  and  feel  that 
pleasurable  comfort  of  being 
in  a  "  home  "  room  and  giving 
no  one  any  trouble  or  distress. 

So,  if  either  the  parlor  or 
some  one  of  these  aforemen- 
tioned rooms  must  be  given 
up,  let  the  parlor  go,  and  [~ 
make  the  rest  of  the  house  so 
sweet  and  sunny  and  beautiful 
that  it  will  never  be  missed. 

Clean,     well-kept      houses 
built  from  plans  like  numbers 
seven,  eight  and  nine  can  cheerfully  wait  until  added 
parlors  can  be  afforded. 

Sometimes  in  pioneer  regions  or  in  cases  of  very  small 
means,  the  house-builder  is  obliged  to  dispense  with  both 


W 

y            L^ 

K     C- 

^   .  p  y 

"=" 



.III 

lllllllll 

R  i 

C    C 

A 

A  J 

D      /-1/J^-J 

H 

'  ^  1 

X 

¥ig.  8. 

X,  Portico  :  7?,  Recess  ;  i),  Din- 
ing Room  ;  B,  Bedroom  ;  c,  c,  c, 
Cupboard,  Closet,  and  Bath- 
room ;  A^,  Kitclien  ;  M,  P,  Milk- 
room  and  Pantry;  M',  Wood-shed. 


BUILDING. 


21 


parlor  and  dining-room.  But  even  in  snch  instances  a 
house  can  be  attractive.  I  know  a  western  farm-house 
where  the  parlor,  dining-room,  kitchen,  library,  hall,  re-* 
ception-room  and  conservatory  are  all  combined  in  one 
apartment,  and  yet  such  is  the  skill  and  taste  of  the 
woman  presiding  over  it  that  sitting  there  in  the  large, 
sunshiny,  orderly  room,  one  falls  in  love  Avith  its  pic- 
turesque simplicity,  and  feels  that  henceforth  partitions 

and     foldnig  -  doors  

and  windmg  stair- 
cases are  vain  and 
wearisome  superflui- 
ties. Square  and 
rather  ugly  looks  the 
house  outwardly, 
with  its  weather- 
painted  boards,  but 
within  all  is  bright 
and  cheery,  a  vein  of 
taste  and  intelligence 
running  through  ev- 

prvthine-  The  mam  ^'  Portico  ;  R^  Recess  ;  D,  Dinin2:-roora  ; 
eryrnmg.  ±ne  mam  j^  Bedroom  ;  c,  c,  Clothes  Closet  and  Bath- 
or  "living"  room  is    room;  iC,  Kitchen;  >F,  Wood-shed  ;  /;  Pan- 

about  fifteen  by  twen-  ^'^ '  ^'  MUk-room. 

ty-f our  feet,  and  there  are  no  chambers.  The  bedrooms  are 
small  but  sunny,  and  possess  no  carpets  or  superfluous 
furniture.  A  small  fire-place  built  of  rough  stone,  but  with 
good  draught  lights  up  the  dining-room — the  cook-stove 
retiring  with  the  modesty  of  true  merit  toward  the  end 
of  the  apartment.  Where  everything  pertaining  to 
kitchen- work  is  kept  is  a  mystery  until  the  time  for  tea 
approaches,  when  the  bright  woman  opens  a  cupboard 
here,  pulls  out  a  drawer  there,  whisks  off  the  ornamental 
roof  of  the  retiring  cook-stove,  and  presto  ! — what  was  a. 
few  moments  ago  a  quiet  sitting-room  with  its  work- 
basket,  open  book,  and  rocking-chair,  is  now  an  animated 


Fio:.  9. 


23 


FARM-HOMES,   Ilf-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOES. 


w    


kitchen,  with,  the  kettle  singing,  a  bright  coffee-pot  '*  in- 
fusing "  and  a  spring  chicken  broiling  upon  the  glowing 
coals. 

While  the  bright  woman  spreads  the  table  she  archly 
invites  you  to  take  a  book  from  the  library  and  find  a 
seat  in  the  conservatory  until  called  for.  So  from  four 
long  shelves  shielded  from  dust  by  a  neat  screen,  you 
select  some  fresh  volume  or  periodical  that  you  hardly 

expected  to  see  in  such 
a  '  *  woodsy  "  place,  and 
betake  yourself  to  the 
*' conservatory."  Ob- 
serving its  architecture 
you  see  that  a  south  and 
east  window  are  placed 
quite  near  each  other, 
their  broad  sills  joining 
and  holding  an  array  of 
wisely  chosen  and  wisely 
cared  for  plants.  Across 
this  brilliant  little  cor- 
ner, partly  to  shield  the 
plants    from    dust  and 


2/,  R^  Livinff-room 


Open  Fire-place  ;  G,  Greenhouse  ;  c,c,c, 

"     ■        Is,  Si 

Pantry ;  w,  Wood-  pretty  verdure,  IS  hung 

shed  and  Wardrobes  ;  A,  Porch.  ^   _;^„i„   i„„_j«,-^j    


Comer  Cupboards,  Side  Cupboards,  and    partly   to  enhance   their 
Drawers;  y,  Dining 'T'«^1'>  •  f^  «P(ir/»nin    ^  J 

and  Bookshelves ;  P, 


a  nicely  laundried  cur- 
tain of  coarse  book-muslin  looped  back  at  either  side  and 
corniced  across  the  top  with  graceful  clusters  of  ferns 
and  autumn  leaves.  You  sit  down  in  a  comfortable  old 
chair  among  the  heliotropes  and  geraniums  and  tea-roses, 
with  whose  fragrance  the  spirit  of  Java  and  the  savory 
smell  of  broiling  chicken  cheerfully  mingle,  and  you  feel 
that  life  has  a  great  many  mercies. 

Do  I  diverge  from  the  business  of  building  ?  No,  I 
am  only  trying  to  show  what  a  builder  and  a  builder's 
wife  can  do  with  one  room. 


BUILDING.  23 

The  numerous  cupboards  and  drawers  set  into  the  wall 
and  nearly  covering  one  side  of  this  pleasant  living-room 
were  devised  by  this  bright  woman  herself,  and  formed 
some  of  her  husband's  rainy-day  work  in  the  first  year  of 
their  pioneer  life. 

There  is  a  tiny  low-down  cupboard  for  her  little  girl's 
dolls  and  tea-sets,  and  a  larger  one  above  it  for  the 
twelve-year-old  son's  collection  of  shells  and  minerals, 
fish-lines,  nails,  strings,  knives,  and  all  those  odds  and 
ends  dear  to  a  boy's  heart.  And  there  are  drawers  for 
bed  and  table  linen  and  best  dresses  and  Sunday  coats ; 
drawers  for  shawls,  blankets,  stockings  and  flannels  ;  and 
a  drawer  that  pulled  out  proves  to  be  a  molding-board 
with  a  row  of  little  boxes  at  the  back  holding  spices,  salt, 
etc.  Above  these  are  cupboards  for  dishes  and  general 
dining  and  kitchen  ware,  and  the  pots  and  kettles,  brooms, 
dusters,  dish-pans,  and  smoothmg  irons  find  a  place  in  a 
tall  corner  cupboard.  Our  hostess  oiled  and  varnished 
all  the  wood-work  in  this  room  with  her  own  hands,  and 
its  mellow  rich  tint  brightened  up  with  the  numerous 
brass  handles  and  fastenings  of  the  cupboards  and 
drawers,  is  in  good  keeping  with  the  quaint  fire-place  and 
the  homely  substantial  furniture. 

When  I  suggested  that  an  extra  large  ''bump"  of 
order  must  be  required  to  keep  so  many  drawers  and 
cupboards  at  rights,  the  bright  woman  replied  that  main- 
taining order  was  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world,  since 
there  was  a  place  for  every  article,  and  that  she  could 
prepare  a  meal  in  the  night  without  light,  if  no  light 
could  be  had,  almost  as  easily  as  in  the  day  time. 

This  house — to  which  a  "wing"  will  be  added  in  a 
year  or  two  for  parlor,  a  bath-room,  and  a  spare  bed- 
room— shows  how  much  can  be  made  of  little,  how  space 
can  be  utilized,  and  what  clevei  magicians  are  order  and 
taste  aided  by  a  very  httle  money  ! 


24  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND  OUT-DOORS. 

HALLS. 

If  one's  house  must  be  small  and  the  rooms  few,  still 
a  hall  or  some  sort  of  pleasant  vestibule  ought  to  be 
afforded,  rather  than  have  the  living-room  or  parlor  open 
abruptly  into  the  open  air.  It  is  good  for  family  habits, 
too,  that  the  children  have  a  regular  place  for  hats  and 
caps,  and  an  opportunity  before  a  hall  mirror  to  see  that 
they  are  presentable  prior  to  appearing  in  the  sittmg  or 
dining-room.  Such  little  household  regulations  teach 
children  order  and  seK-control. 

This  moral  view  of  the  Hall  brings  up  another  con- 
sideration. There  are  many  kind-hearted,  fair-minded 
house-keepers  who  regard  the  main  entrance  of  their 
houses  as  being  too  sacred  for  daily  use,  and  prefer  that 
husband  and  children  and  intimate  friends  should  ''run 
around  "  to  a  side  or  a  kitchen  door.  This  is  a  mistake. 
Better  live  in  a  hut  with  but  one  entrance  than  have  a 
door-way  too  grand  for  those  nearest  us  to  walk  through  ! 
Indeed,  the  burden  of  these  chapters  will  be  that  we  had 
best  have  nothing  that  is  ''too  good  for  human  nature's 
daily  food." 

But  these  same  fair-minded  house-keepers  will  exclaim, 
''  Oh,  it  is  all  very  well  to  talk  about  the  footsteps  of 
those  nearest  us,  but  I  can't  afford  to  have  my  hall-carpet 
covered  with  mud  every  day  and  torn  to  tatters  in  six 
months  !" 

Of  course  you  cannot  afford  it,  nor  can  your  afford  to 
have  your"  children  acquire  the  careless  manners  and 
habits  that  come  of  the  back-door  principle.  Have  a 
door-mat  at  the  hall  door,  and  teach  little  feet  to  respect 
it.  Have  everything  everywhere  as  fine  and  tasteful  as 
means  will  permit,  and  lead  the  children  to  understand 
that  the  condition  of  having  good  and  pretty  things  to 
use  is — care  ! — ^just  a  little  thoughtful  care. 

If  the  house  is  to  be  large  enough,  have  a  hall,  and  fit 


BUILDING.  25 

it  up  for  daily  use.  Nothing  is  so  dreary  and  uninviting 
as  the  ordinary  little  hall  or  "entry"  that  is  found  in 
half  the  houses  of  quite  well-to-do  people.  It  is  usually 
dark,  narrow,  bare,  and  possessed  of  stale  odors,  that  sug- 
gest damp  umbrellas  and  yesterday's  dinner.  There 
seems  among  very  many  to  be  nothing  expected  of  this 
part  of  the  house  but  gloom  and  cold  oil-cloth,  and  may  be 
a  row  of  pegs  for  stray  hats.  Instead  of  such  cheerless 
entrances  we  ought  to  have  halls  that  say  at  once  to  the 
in-comer,  "Welcome!'' — that  enfold  him  in  an  atmos- 
phere of  quiet,  comforting,  sheltering  hospitality.  Such 
an  atmosphere  is  possible  in  even  a  6  by  8  room.  If,  how- 
ever, there  are  chambers  in  the  house  plan,  it  is  good 
economy  to  have  a  hall  large  enough  to  mclude  the  stair- 
case and  leave  ample  space  for  necessary  hall  furniture 
with,  in  winter,  a  stove  which  will  warm  up  all  the  upper 
rooms  of  a  moderately-sized  house,  and  pay  for  itself 
and  the  fuel  it  consumes  over  and  over  again  in  the  in- 
creased good  health  and  comfort  of  the  family. 

A  hall  should  be  pleasantly  but  not  glaringly  lighted  ; 
and  it  is  a  great  saving  of  carpets  and  the  house-mother's 
feelings  to  have  the  floor  made  of  alternate  strips  of  dark 
and  light  wood,  if  the  somewhat  expensive  process  can 
be  afforded. 

BATH-EOOMS. 

Bath-rooms,  or  good  conveniences  for  bathing,  ought  to 
be  found  in  every  farm-house  ;  and  yet  it  is  an  unpleasant 
fact  that  they  are  often  entirely  lacking,  and  that  a  daily 
or  semi- weekly  "all  over"  bath  is  something  undreamed 
of  by  many  so-called  civilized  people  who  pride  them- 
selves upon  their  neat  habits.  This  really  religious  duty 
of  keeping  the  whole  body  clean  does  not  occur  to  them, 
and  the  neglect  of  it  is  one  of  the  numerous  ways  in 
which  busy  hard-working  people  abuse  themselves. 

Every  villa,  pretty  country  cottage,  and  first-class 
2 


26  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

farm-house  now  has  its  well-appointed  bath-room,  and  so 
may  the  little  three-cornered  *'  shantie,"  or  the  log  cabin 
of  the  pioneer,  have  its  possibihties  for  bathing.  If  all 
cannot  command  a  special  room  with  its  ample  tubs, 
showers,  douches,  and  convenient  supplies  of  hot  and  cold 
water,  all  can  have  at  least  the  seclusion  of  a  closet — to 
which  it  is  easy  to  carry  a  basin  of  water  and  a  sponge. 

A  bit  of  a  room  might  be  built  adjoining  the  kitchen 
with  a  sliding  or  hinged  window  opening  near  the  cook- 
stove,  thus  securing  warmth  in  winter  and  bringing  the 
"hot  and  cold  water"  within  arm's  reach.  Then  with 
the  addition  of  a  bath-tub,  or  even  a  large  laundry  tub, 
with  a  piece  of  rubber  hose  fixed  in  the  bottom  to  carry 
off  water  to  the  drain,  pegs  for  hanging  towels  and 
sponges,  and  a  bracket  for  holding  soaps — and  that  better 
than  all  soaps,  a  bottle  of  ammonia — it  is  a  bath-room 
good  enough  for  a  king. 

A  very  good  shower-bath  can  be  had  by  suspending  a 
watering-pot  from  a  strong  hook  in  the  ceiling,  the 
bather  to  regulate  the  showering  by  means  of  a  string 
attached  to  the  spout.  It  will  be  found  almost  as  satis- 
factory as  the  portable  ones  sold  in  house-furnishing 
shops. 

VENTILATION. 

In  the  country  where  the  purest  air  can  be  had,  it  is  a 
pity  to  be  denied  the  benefit  of  it. 

In  kitchens  and  living  rooms  the  air  is  generally  pas- 
sable because  of  the  frequent  opening  of  outer  doors  and 
the  brisk  draught  of  cooking  and  heating  stoves.  It  only 
remains  to  see  that  the  bedrooms  are  equally  well  treated, 
and  that  too  many  pairs  of  lungs  are  not  required  to 
breathe  in  the  same  apartment.  The  windows  should  of 
course  be  made  to  let  down  from  the  top,  as  even  a  small 
opening  near  the  ceiling  of  a  room  permits  the  escape  of 
foul  air. 


BUILDI>?^G.  27 

An  open  stove  is  an  excellent  feature  in  a  bedroom, 
not  only  because  it  helps  vastly  to  maintain  a  pure  state 
of  atmosphere,  but  because  it  makes  pleasant  light  and 
warmth  for  the  dressing,  undressing  and  bathing  of  the 
children.  Even  if  kitchens  and  dinnig-rooms  must  be 
scrimped  a  little,  endeavor  to  have  the  bedrooms,  at 
least  the  nursery-bedroom,  large  enough  to  admit  a  stove 
of  this  sort.     Like  the  hall  stove,  it  will  pay  largely. 

There  is  a  '^ Revolving  Ventilator"  sold  at  house-fur- 
nishing shops,  at  one  dollar  and  upwards,  which  is  said  to 
be  very  effective  in  removing  dust  and  impurity  from  an 
apartment.  The  following  method  of  cheap  and  sim- 
ple ventilation  has  also  been  found  to  be  very  satisfactory : 

'^Nail  or  screw  a  neat  strip  of  wood  from  one  to  two 
inches  upon  the  window  sill  just  inside  the  sash  and  ex- 
tending across  the  window.  Upon  tlie  top  of  the  strip 
fasten  a  piece  of  "  weather-strip  "so  that  there  will  be 
formed  an  air-tight  joint  between  the  weather-strip  and 
the  lower  sash  of  the  window,  whether  the  latter  is  closed 
or  raised  an  inch  or  two — the  lower  cross-piece  of  the 
sash  sliding  on  the  rubber  of  the  weather-strip  as  the 
sash  rises.  With  this  simple  fixture  in  place,  the  lower 
sash  may  be  raised  enough  to  admit  a  stream  of  air 
between  the  lower  and  upper  sashes,  where  they  overlap, 
without  admitting  the  least  air  at  the  bottom  of  the 
window.  The  air  thus  entering  is  thrown  upward 
toward  the  ceiling,  and  has  its  "chill  taken  off"  before 
descending  upon  the  heads  of  the  occupants  of  the  room. 
The  fixture,  with  its  outlet  in  or  near  the  ceiling  for  viti- 
ated air,  ventilates  a  small  room  very  satisfactorily. '' 

If  it  can  be  afforded,  submit  this  feature  of  building 
to  some  intelligent  architect,  and  secure  your  pure  air  on 
the  latest  scientific  principles,  but  if  the  purse  is  limited, 
see  that  all  bedrooms  and  sitting-rooms  have  some  of  the 
foregoing  simple  arrangements.  Have,  if  possible,  the 
open  fire.     A  bedroom  is  never  what  it  ought  to  be,  if  in 


23  FAEM  HOMES,    IX-DOOES   AND    OUT-DOORS. 

the   morning  it  has  to  unvitiated  lungs  a  close,   stale, 
**  sleepy  "  atmosphere. 

Let  the  builder  and  the  ' '  provider  "  do  their  part,  and 
the  intelligent  mother,  having  the  welfare  of  her  dear 
ones  at  heart,  will  see  that  they  have  good  **  lung  food" 
on  which  to  thrive  through  the  long  nights. 

DEAIKAGE    AKD    PEEVEJ^TABLE    FILTH. 

The  cleanly  care  of  the  body  and  the  ventilation  of 
rooms  avail  not  so  much,  however,  if  about  the  house 
there  creep  and  crawl  the  invisible  but  none  the  less  terri- 
ble impurities  from  damp,  mouldy  cellars,  standing  pools 
of  slop-water,  and  neglected,  barbarous  privies. 

**  How  long  we  miglit  live  "  exclaims  Dr.  jN'ichols,  "  if 
we  could  only  get  out  of  our  dirt  and  that  of  our  neigh- 
bors ! "  In  the  better  part  of  large  cities  people  seem  to 
have  succeeded  very  well  in  "getting  out" — thanks  to 
the  rigid  enforcement  of  sanitary  laws  ! — and  although  a 
clogged-sewer  pipe  lias  power  to  transform  the  most  ele- 
gant mansion  into  an  intolerable  dwelling  place,  it  re- 
mains for  the  country  to  furnish  horrors  that  would  cause 
a  sanitarian's  hair  to  stand  on  end. 

The  cheering  thing  about  this  rural  disregard  for  health 
laws  is  that  it  seems  to  be  an  unconscious  disregard,  a 
sin  of  thoughtlessness.  The  tasteful  and  thrifty  farmer 
has  his  fences,  outbuildings,  and  walks,  in  faultless  repair, 
while  in-doors  his  wife  scrubs  and  polishes,  and  is  a  marvel 
of  order  and  neatness  ;  and  yet  some  villainous  cesspool 
brewing  its  mischief  in  the  insulted  air,  or  some  reposi- 
tory of  filth — emboweled  it  may  be,  m  luxuriant  vines — 
breathes  out  its  poison  day  and  night,  and  mocks  the 
orderly  care  of  the  farmer  and  the  tidy  pride  of  his  good 
wife  with  its  unspeakable  pollution. 

Could  the  farmer  be  permitted  to  encounter  these  air- 
poisons  in  tangible  shape,  could  he,  for  instance,  catch  a 
glimpse  of  diphtheria  peeping  into  the  sleepmg-room  of 


BUILDIKG.  29 

his  beloved  little  ones,  or  scarlet  fever  dogging  their  steps, 
or  typhoid  threatening  the  wife  of  his  heart,  would  he 
not  employ  every  means  to  avert  them. 

There  is  no  excuse  for  bad  ** gases"  about  country 
homes.  Every  owner  of  an  acre  of  land  has  the  means 
at  hand  for  maintaming  a  clean  atmosphere,  providmg 
of  course  there  are  no  unconquerable  marshes  or  miasmatic 
rivers  to  deal  with. 

The  various  kinds  of  tiles  for  drains  for  conveying 
away  slops  and  waste  waters  to  points  where  they  may  be 
speedily  evaporated  by  wind  and  sun,  are  durable,  effec- 
tual, and  cheap.  Placed  below  the  reach  of  frost  at  a 
pitch  to  create  a  rapid  How,  they  will  not  become  clogged 
and  will  last  a  life-time. 

In  summers  the  laundry  suds  can  be  applied  to  the 
garden  with  good  effect,  but  there  should  be  a  kitchen 
sink  connecting  with  the  dram  not  only  for  convenience 
m  disposing  of  waste  water  at  all  times,  but  to  prevent 
the  nuisance  of  frozen  slops  and  ice-clogging,  which 
generally  occurs  when  the  only  opening  is  outside  the 
house.  This  kitchen  pipe  can  be  easily  '^flushed"  every 
week  with  boiling  suds,  and  a  semi -occasional  dose  of 
chloride  of  lime  or  carbolic  acid  will  keep  it  clean  and 
odorless. 

Kitchen  waste  In  the  country  very  fortunately  need  not 
await  the  round  of  the  garbage  cart,  and  can  be  disposed 
of  at  any  time  before  it  becomes  rancid  and  pestilential. 
Indeed,  in  well-conducted  house-keeping  it  is  not 
*'  waste  "  at  all,  but  wholesome  scraps  that  are  well  re- 
ceived by  the  chickens,  the  pigs,  and  the  soap-fat  Jar. 
The  little  that  cannot  be  disposed  of  in  these  ways  should 
be  burned.  There  is  nothing  better  than  cremation  for 
stuff  that  from  neglect  or  accident  becomes  unfit  for  any- 
thmo:  else. 

These  two  sorts  of  refuse  being  so  easily  disposed  of, 
the  serious  thing  to  consider  is  the  last  and  the  worst,  the 


30  FARM  HOMES,    Iiq--DOOES  AND   OUT-DOOES. 

old-fashioned  privy ;  old-fashioned,  because  in  ever  new 
first-class,  scientifically  builded  house  it  has  given  place  to 
something  better.  This  nuisance  is  too  philosophically 
endured.  It  is  by  no  means  a  necessary  evil,  and  there  is 
no  virtue  in  submitting  to  its  existence.  We  often  see 
heroic  attempts  to  overcome  its  objectionable  features. 
It  is  made  to  stand  afar  off,  but  distance  in  this  case  lends 
no  enchantment,  and  the  long  walks  back  and  forth  in 
all  sorts  of  weather,  and  the  noisome  condition  of  the 
building  itself,  are  often  serious  exposures  to  aged  people 
and  delicate  children.  Sometimes  it  is  brought  nearer, 
taken  under  the  house-roof,  curtained  and  carpeted,  and 
then  we  have  "  sewer  gas  "  all  the  year  round,  and  in  the 
summer  months  a  nuisance  that  more  or  less  contaminates 
the  whole  house. 

The  best  way  to  overcome  this  evil  is  to  adopt  the  dry- 
earth  or  ashes  system.  Because  some  of  the  first  closets 
manufactured  on  this  principle  proved  rather  unsatisfac- 
tory, no  one  should  be  prejudiced  against  the  system 
itself,  which  is  finding  wide  and  wider  acceptance 
through  improved  and  perfected  machinery. 

In  the  use  of  dry  earth  or  ashes,  one  is  as  effectual  as 
the  other,  the  only  difference  being  that  double  the 
quantity  of  ash  is  required.  Both,  if  properly  used,  have 
power  to  completely  disinfect  and  obliterate  everything 
that  is  offensive.  To  save  the  small  trouble  of  drying 
and  storing  earth  for  winter  use,  it  might  be  well  to  use 
ashes  through  the  cold  months,  but  the  ease  with  which 
earth  can  be  had  in  the  country,  and  the  excellent  fertil- 
izing purpose  to  which  it  can  be  put  after  it  has  per- 
formed its  office  of  disinfectant,  make  it  the  most  desirable. 

The  *'  earth  closets  "  sold  by  dealers  are  needlessly  ex- 
pensive, I  think,  ranging  in  prices  from  the  $5  pail  up  to 
the  $40  cabinet  elaborately  finished  in  walnut.  Beyond 
$10  and  $12  they  vary  in  value  merely  in  regard  to  finish, 
and  a  man  with  any  gift  for  planning  and  joining  boards 


BTJILDIKG.  31 

might  make  one  for  the  comparatively  small  cost  of 
materials. 

There  is  also  a  privy  fixture  intended  for  either  house- 
closets  or  out-door  buildings.  It  conveys  dry  earth  or 
ashes  into  the  vault  from  a  reservoir  of  any  size  chosen, 
and  as  a  disinfectant  is  just  as  effectual  as  the  high- 
priced  closet.  Tlie  removal  of  deposit  from  a  vault  is, 
however,  not  as  easily  accomplished  as  in  the  closet 
arrangement,  which  merely  requires  an  occasional  empty- 
ing of  a  small  box.  But  in  adopting  the  fixture  the 
building  can  of  course  be  remodelled  with  a  little  labor. 
The  fixture  is  sold  by  closet-dealers  and  accompanied  with 
directions  enabling  any  carpenter  to  fit  it  into  place. 
Any  common  privy  can  be  made  quite  decent  and  inodor- 
ous by  having  a  little  dry  earth  shoveled  into  the  vault 
every  day,  and  the  vault  occasionally  emptied.  A  box  or 
barrel  of  earth  can  be  kept  in  a  corner  of  the  building, 
and  a  very  little  answers  the  jmrpose. 

No  privy  should  be  used  as  a  receptacle  for  slops. 
Often  in  villages  and  in  the  country  they  are,  by  this 
thoughtless  usage,  transformed  into  cesspools,  whose  far 
reaching  poisons — poisoning  not  only  the  air,  but  de- 
scending into  wells  and  cisterns — sooner  or  later  bring- 
ing the  doctor's  carriage  to  the  door,  followed  perhaps 
by  that  still  more  sombre  vehicle,  the  plumed  hearse. 

With  good  drains,  means  for  promptly  disposing  of  all 
slops,  garbage,  and  decaying  matter,  the  dry-earth  princi- 
ple applied  to  the  rank  offenses  just  alluded  to,  pure 
water,  and  plenty  of  sun  and  air  in  all  the  apartments  of 
the  house,  the  farmer  may  safely  count  on  having  secured 
the  best  of  "life  policies"  not  only  for  himself,  but  for 
every  member  of  his  family. 


32  FABM  HOMES,   IN-DOOES  AXD  OUT-DOOfiS. 

CHAPTER    IL 
FINISHING. 

There  is  a  good  deal  of  liglit,  but  effective,  work  in 
the  finish  of  a  house  which  women  might  interest  them- 
selves in,  and,  with  a  little  study  and  practice,  perform 
with  their  own  hands  the  labor  tnat  is  either  left  undone 
or  given  over  to  high-priced  workmen. 

I  am  confident  a  happy  change  would  come  over  our 
farm-houses  if  the  wives  and  daughters,  dwelling  in  them, 
would  take  upon  themselves  the  business  of  studying 
tasteful  yet  inexpensive  ways  for  improving  and  embel- 
lishing their  surroundings. 

The  work  of  painting,  panelling,  calcimining,  staining, 
varnishing,  etc.,  is  not  nearly  as  laborious  as  ironing 
shirts,  molding  bread,  or  scrubbing  floors  ;  and  besides, 
when  it  is  finished  it  remains  finished,  and,  if  well  done, 
is  a  "joy  forever." 

Suppose  the  new  house  cleaved  of  carpenters  anji  ma- 
sons, the  floors  and  wood- work  cleaned,  and  all  the  debris 
of  building  collected  and  carried  away  ;  the  work  that 
now  remains  to  be  done  should  be  an  attractive  task  for 
woman-hands,  and  it  should  be  left  to  these  hands,  with 
confidence  in  their  ability  to  make  the  very  best  of  even 
the  humblest  materials. 

The  ceilings  and  walls  are  first  to  be  considered.  The 
mason  may  have  left  them  smooth  and  white  with  the 
pride  of  his  art,  "hard-finish,"  but  even  this  can  be  im- 
proved. In  best  rooms  it  is  cold  and  glaring  to  the  eye, 
while  in  every-day  apartments,  in  spite  of  watchful  care, 
it  soon  becomes  unsightly  from  its  ability  to  show  every 
slight  speck  and  spot.  There  are  various  soft  and  cheer- 
ful tints  far  more  pleasing  to  look  upon,  and  which  will 


FINISHIl^^G.  33 

longer  endure  the  touches  of  time.  The  tints  can  be 
applied  in  calcimine  or  in  whitewash,  made  after  the  fol- 
lowing recipes.  Calcimine  is  used  only  on  hard-finish, 
while  whitewash  can  be  applied  to  all  walls  : 


CALCIMIN'E. 


I  Soak  one  pound  of  white  glue  over  night,  then  dis- 
ive  it  in  boiling  water,  and  add  twenty  pounds  of  Paris 
white,  diluting  with  water  until  the  mixture  is  of  the 
consistency  of  rich  milk.  To  this  any  tint  can  be  given 
that  is  desired. 

Lilac. — Add  to  the  calcimine  two  parts  of  Prussian 
bine  and  one  of  vermilion,  stirring  thoroughly,  and 
taking  care  to  avoid  too  high  a  color. 

Broion, — Burnt  umber. 

Gray. — Raw  umber,  with  a  trifling  amount  of  lamp- 

ack. 

Rose. — Three  parts  of  vernailion  and  one  of  red  lead, 
added  in  very  small  quantities  until  a  delicate  shade  is 
produced. 

Lavender. — Make  a  light  blue  and  tint  it  slightly  with 
^^ermilion. 

^B  Straw. — Chrome    yellow,    with   a  touch   of    Spanish 
brown. 

Buff. — Two  parts  spruce  or  Indian  yellow  and  one 
part  burnt  sienna. 

Blue. — A  small  quantity  of  Prussian  blue  will  give  a 
soft  azure  tint.     Dark  blue  is  never  desirable. 

Delicate  tints  in  the  foregoing  varieties  of  color  are 
always  agreeable  and  tasteful,  and  so  great  care  must  J)e 
taken  that  they  are  not  too  vivid.  The  tints  will  always 
appear  brighter  than  in  the  calcimine  pot,  and  the  work- 
man, or  work-woman,  must  keep  this  fact  in  mind  when 
dding  the  coloring  powders. 


34  FAEM  HOMES,    IN^-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOOES. 

It  is  a  good  idea  to  give  the  ceiling  a  calcimine  two  or 
three  shades  lighter  than  that  of  the  walls,  so  it  may  ap- 
pear merely  a  delicate  reflection  of  their  deeper  tones. 
The  ceiling  can  be  calcimined  with  the  lighter  tint,  and 
then  more  coloring  added  for  the  walls. 

AN"    EXCELLENT  WHITEWASH. 

For  other  walls  than  hard-finish,  an  excellent  white- 
wash is  made  by  slaking  lime  with  boiliDg  skim-milk 
and  adding  (for  half  a  bushel  of  lime)  three  quarts  of 
salt,  half  a  pound  of  whiting,  and  a  pound  of  white 
glue,  previously  dissolved  in  water.  This  is  a  hard  and 
durable  whitewash,  does  not  easily  rub  off,  and  when 
tinted  with  any  of  the  foregoing  shades  has  about  as 
good  an  effect  as  calcimine. 

A  beginner  in  the  art  of  whitewashing  is  apt  to  be- 
stow half  the  material  on  the  floor,  which  is  a  needless 
waste.  By  taking  a  small  quantity  on  the  brush  at  a 
time  all  splashing  is  avoided,  and  after  a  little  practice 
barely  a  drop  will  fall  on  the  floor. 

A  bright  day  should  be  selected  for  the  work.  The 
wash  must  be  of  the  proper  consistency — rich  milk — or 
it  cannot  be  applied  evenly.  The  strokes  should  be 
straight  and  parallel  with  each  other.  After  the  first 
coat  is  dry,  and  never  before,  apply  the  second  one  across 
the  first.  An  expert  workman  leaves  no  touch  of  the 
brush  visible.  When  applying  the  first  coat  a  round 
paint-brush  should  be  used  for  thoroughly  covering  all 
comers  and  small  spaces  with  the  wash. 

BORDERS. 

■  If  a  lady  has  a  little  talent  and  a  little  leisure  for  the 
work,  she  may  devote  an  hour  or  two  each  day  to  the 
coloring  of  borders  at  the  top  of  these  tinted  wall».  A 
leafy  pattern  in  grape,  ivy,  or  other  trailing  vines,  with  a 


I 


Fiis'isnii^G.  35 

bright  bud  or  berry  peeping  out  here  and  there,  could  be 
outlined  with  the  aid  of  pasteboard  patterns,  and  the 
colors  neatly  laid  on  with  small  brushes.  A  few  feet  of 
this  bordering  finished  each  day,  would  be  no  great  tax 
on  her  time,  and  when  all  was  completed  she  would  have 
a  charming  artistic  relief  for  the  plain,  softly-tinted 
walls.   • 

Such  decoration  should  not  be  attempted,  however, 
unless  one  has  a  genuine  *' knack"  for  it;  but  in  its 
place  can  be  laid  on  plain  bands  of  color,  or  the  common 
paper  borderings  can  be  used,  taking  pains  to  select  tliose 
that  will  have  an  agreeable  effect.  For  example,  for 
gray  and  stone-colored  walls,  use  warm  reds  and  golden 
greens ;  for  bluish  walls,  dark  blues  and  blue-greens, 
brightened  with  either  lemon-yellow  or  rose-pink ;  for 
lavender  or  lilac  walls,  borders  of  golden-yellow  and  rich 
green ;  for  buff  and  pale  brown  and  straw-tinted  walls, 
black  and  gold,  with  scarlet. 

Very  rich  and  beautiful  designs  are  now  seen  in  wall- 
papers, the  prevailing  idea  being  imitations  of  the  tapes- 
tries of  olden  times — tapestries  that  probably  never  fig- 
ured very  much  in  farm-houses,  however  ;  and  it  is 
likely  these  papers  would  seem  out  of  place  on  walls  that 
are  at  their  best  when  they  are  genuinely  plain  and  un- 
assuming, and  adorned  in  a  manner  befitting  quiet  rural 
surroundings. 


WOOD-WOEK. 


Walls  of  kitchens  and  dining-rooms  are  generally 
finished  in  wood  to  the  hight  of  two  and  a  half  or  three 
feet  from  the  floor.  This  is  a  good  style,  not  only  be- 
cause it  saves  the  breaking  and  marring  of  plaster,  but 
because  it  gives  a  look  of  comfort  and  solidity  to  the 
apartments.  Halls,  and  even  parlors,  might  be  finished 
in  the  same  way,  and  thus  add  to  the  warmth  of  the 


36  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   A:N^D   OUT-DOORS. 

house  and  make  wall-papering  and  other  decoration  an 
easier  and  less  expensive  operation. 

An  excellent  way  to  dispose  of  the  wood- work  in  kitch- 
ens, dining-rooms,  halls,  and  pantries,  is  to  oil  and  var- 
nish the  natural  wood.  Such  treatment  is  more  durable 
and  less  expensive  than  paint,  and  the  varnished  surface 
is  easily  cleaned,  and  enriched  and  mellowed,  rather  than 
damaged,  by  time. 

If  preferred,  a  walnut-stain  can  be  applied  in  dining- 
rooms  and  halls,  in  place  of  oiling  the  wood.  The  stain 
can  be  bought  at  a  drug  store  ready  for  applying,  or  it 
can  be  made  by  stirring  the  powder  of  burnt  umber  into 
hot  vinegar,  regulating  the  quantities  according  to  the 
amount  of  surface  to  be  stained.  Apply  it  with  a  paint 
brush,  evenly  in  up  and  down  strokes,  and  when  dry 
varnish  with  the  best  turpentine  varnish. 

Mahogany  color  for  staining  book-shelves,  tables, 
drawers,  chests,  etc.,  is  obtained  by  using  burnt  sienna 
in  place  of  umber. 

If  one  has  time — and  it  is  worth  while  to  take  time — 
a  very  neat  hall  floor  can  be  made  by  staining  alternate 
boards  with  walnut-color  and  then  varnishing  the  whole. 

Or  the  floor  may  be  stained  in  blocks  by  tacking  down 
alternate  six  or  eight  inch  squares  of  pasteboard  and 
applying  the  stain  between  them. 

This  inexpensive  treatment  is  also  desirable  for  dining- 
room  floors — especially  for  borderings  around  them,  since 
a  happy  fashion  in  carpets  nowadays  is  to  lay  them  in 
the  form  of  large  rugs,  leaving  a  space  of  two  and  a  half 
or  three  feet  on  all  sides  of  the  room. 

One  charm  of  this  style  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  carpets 
are  easily  taken  up  and  cleaned  without  much  moving  or 
lifting  of  heavy  furniture,  which  can  remain  on  the 
boards  next  the  wall.  In  a  dining  or  any  other  much 
used  room,  these  ''rug"  carpets  are  the  only  kind  that 
should  be  endured  ;  and  in  such  rooms  a  wide  bordering 


m;risHii;rQ.  .  37 

of  neatly  stained  blocks  or  stripes  will  proye  to  be  not 
only  pretty  and  cheerfnl,  but  a  great  saving  of  carpet- 
buying  and  carpet-sweeping. 

If  walnut-stain  is  thought  too  dark  and  sombre  for 
parlor  and  bed-room  wood-work,  there  are  various  delicate 
shades  in  paint  that  can  be  purchased  of  druggists  or 
manufacturers  already  mixed,  any  one  of  which  shades 
are  preferable  to  hard,  glaring  white.  Soft  dove,  wood, 
and  pearl-gray  tints,  are  desirable,  and  a  room  looks  well 
when  painted  in  two  shades  of  the  same  color^providing 
the  work  can  bo  done  by  an  expert  hand.  Otherwise, 
let  only  one  shade  be  attempted. 

MANTELS. 

A  fire-place  goes  farther  than  anything  else  in  giving  to 
a  room  character  and  beauty.  Every  dining-room  and 
nursery,  at  least,  should  have  one.  In  the  cool  weather 
of  spring  and  fall,  when  the  morning  and  evening  air  is 
a  little  sharp,  or  when  a  long  cold  rain-storm  is  making 
everything  *'  damp,  moist  and  uncomfortable,"  there  is 
nothing  more  delightful,  both  for  old  and  young,  than  a 
brisk  fire  upon  an  open  hearth.  With  what  beautiful 
rosy  light  and  a  gentle  warmth  it  fills  a  room,  and  how 
it  laughs  and  dances  and  seems  to  say  to  every  one  "be 
glad  with  me !" 

And  then,  aside  from  its  home-like  beauty  and  good 
cheer,  who  can  count,  the  depressing  chills  and  miasma, 
and  floating  seeds  of  disease,  that  are  seized  by  its  friendly 
flames  and  whirled  up  the  chimney  before  they  have  time 
to  lay  a  finger  upon  us  ? 

Next  to  the  wide  windows  and  the  bath-room,  dear 
house-keepers,  be  sure  to  insist  upon  the  fire-place  in 
your  house  plans  ! 

An  "imitated"  fire-place  appears  like  one  of  the  cruel- 
lest of  shams  ;  but  if  a  real  one  cannot  be  afforded,  a 
mantel  is  still  a  graceful  and  dignified  feature  of  house- 


38 


FARM  HOMES,    IIS^-DOORS  AKD   OUT-DOORS. 


finishing ;  and  an  open  stove  selected  from  the  several 
good  and  cheap  ones  now  manufactured,  will  prove  a  very 
satisfactory  substitute  for  the  fire-place  itself. 

The  mantel  need  not  be  expensive.  A  plain  strong 
shelf  placed  about  four  and  a  half  feet  from  the  floor, 
with  three  pieces  of  pine  arranged  beneath  it,  something 
like  the  accompanying  cut,  is  about  all  that  is  required 
of  the  carpenter  in  cases  where  dollars  and  cents  must  be 


^ 


considered.  The  finishing  and  decorative  touches  are  all 
within  the  power  of  some  painstaking  wife  or  daughter. 

First  nail  a  iiarrow  molding  along  the  edges,  joining 
the  comers  neatly,  and  filling  all  nail  holes  with  putty ; 
then  paint  the  whole  with  good  black  paint,  and  when 
dry  rub  all  over  with  emery  paper  or  pumice-stone  to 
remove  any  roughness,  and  apply  another  coat  of  paint. 
When  dry,  varnish.  It  can  now  be  simply  finished  with 
a  lambrequin  for  the  shelf,  and  some  sort  of  decorated 
fire-board,  or  it  can  be  brightened  up  with  tiles  "  in  the 
following  manner : 

Take  panels,  or  squares,  of  glass,  and  if  one  is  not 
artist  enough  to  venture  on  original  designs,  select  pleas- 
ing pictures  of  birds,  flowers,  grains,  children,  animals. 


FIKISHING.  39 

or  season-landscapes,  from  the  great  chromo-field,  cut 
them  out  nicely  and  gum  them  upon  the  glass  face  down- 
ward, covering  the  whole  with  a  coat  of  paint  in  soft 
shades  of  blue,  lavender,  or  sea-green.  The  ''  right "  side 
of  the  glass  then  bears  a  very  fair  resemblance  to  a  china 
painting.  These  tiles  are  easily  and  inexpensively  made, 
and  when  fastened  upon  the  wood-work,  with  narrow  black 
moldings,  have  almost  as  good  an  effect  as  those  costlier 
ones  **  from  over  the  sea." 

For  a  tire-board  take  paper  that  will  not  quarrel  with 
the  prevailing  color  of  the  room,  and  paste  it  smoothly 
into  the  space  between  the  wood-work  and  the  mantel. 
This  may  be  varnished  and  left  plain,  or  a  group  of  ferns, 
a  wreath  of  autumn  leaves,  or  a  spray  of  * '  decalcomania  " 
flowers  may  first  be  applied  and  then  covered  with  two 
coats  of  varnish.  If  neatly  and  tastefully  done  this  will 
agreeably  brighten  up  an  otherwise  plain  mantel. 

If  one  is  so  fortunate  as  to  possess  a  long  narrow  mir- 
ror, of  the  sort  that,  with  a  green  halo  of  asparagus  bouglis 
about  them,  used  to  adorn  our  grandmothers'  best  rooms, 
it  can  be  placed  lengthways  upon  this  mantel,  neither 
tipped  backward  nor  forward^  but  fastened  flatly  to  the 
wall,  and  the  effect  will  be  excellent.  The  frame,  doubt- 
less more  or  less  tarnished,  will  require  a  rubbing  with 
sand-paper  and  a  coat  of  black  paint  and  varnish  like 
the  mantel ;  or  it  maybe  necessary  to  reframe  it  in  black 
molding  of  a  width  to  make  it  as  long  as  the  shelf  on 
which  it  rests.  If  one  has  no  such  mirror,  it  will  not 
cost  a  great  sum  to  purchase  one,  without  frame,  and  fit 
it  into  place.  It  will  reflect  the  sunlit  windows  by  day, 
and  the  lamps  by  night,  and  greatly  increase  the  beauty 
and  cheerfulness  of  the  apartment. 

HALL  WINDOWS. 

If  there  are  glass  panels  in  the  hall-door,  or  windows 
above  or  beside  it,  there  are  ways  for  making  them  orna- 


40  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

mental  as  well  as  necessary.  They  should  not  only  be 
pleasing  to  outside  inspection,  but  have  a  pretty  and 
cheery  look  from  within.  By  taking  sheets  of  white 
tissue  paper  of  the  size  of  the  panes,  cutting  out  some 
flowery  or  geometrical  design  in  the  center,  and  pasting 
smoothly  upon  the  glass,  you  have  something  of  the  effect 
of  ground  glass.  Another  way  is  to  cut  leaves  and  blos- 
soms, birds  and  butterflies,  from  gay  furniture  calico  or 
cretonne,  paste  them  on  the  glass — the  right  side  toward 
the  light — in  wreaths  or  groups,  and  cover  them  with 
white  net,  tarleton,  or  thin  book-muslin  cut  to  exactly  fit 
the  panes. 

Autumn  leaves,  vines,  and  ferns,  could  be  used  in  place 
of  the  cretonne  figures  if  not  exposed  to  strong  sun-light 
— which  would  soon  bleach  them  to  anything  but  an 
attractive  "living  green." 

Any  window  from  which  the  outlook  is  not  desirable, 
but  from  which  light  is  wanted,  may  be  decorated  in  this 
way  and  so  become  a  pleasing  object  in  itself. 


FUBiq^ISHIiq^G.  41 

CHAPTER  in. 

What  woman,  unless  she  is  a  Laplander,  or  wealthy 
fenough  to  know  no  wish  denied,  but  has  her  daj-dreams 
in  which  she  furnishes  this  or  that  room  after  her  own 
heart,  and  makes  her  house  so  beautiful — to  her  own 
mind  at  least — that  waking  from  her  dream-work  she 
sighs  over  the  limitations  of  her  purse,  and  looks  wearily 
about  upon  the  plain,  perhaps  shabby  things  that  must 
*'  do  "  until  that  indefinite  period.  Better  Times,  can  re- 
place them  with  something  more  desirable. 

Now,  for  the  benefit  of  these  unsatisfied  home-mothers, 
ingenious  thinkers — women  who  have  time  to  think — have 
hit  upon  many  tasteful,  cozy,  and  yet  inexpensive  ways 
for  making  rooms  to  appear  very  well  furnished  ;  so  that 
even  without  the  upholsterer's  aid,  or  the  stockingful  of 
money  so  vainly  waited  for,  their  apt  sisters  have  only  to 
set  to  work  at  once  and  have  surroundings  more  to  their 
liking. 

It  is  not  worth  while  to  sigh  any  longer  for  the  marble- 
topped  tables,  flaming  carpets,  and  slippery  hair-cloth 
chairs  which  neighbor  Luckyhand  has  had  so  long  in  his 
parlor,  for  they  are  ''out  of  fashion,"  and  you  should 
beware  that  no  desperate  local  dealer  induces  you  to  take 
similar  goods  "at  cost,"  that  he  may  be  rid  of  them. 
With  the  small-patterned  and  small-priced  ingrain  car- 
pets now  in  market,  and  plenty  of  good  and  cheap  pic- 
tures offered  on  every  hand,  it  will  be  found  that  a  few 
yards  of  pretty  chintz,  a  little  furniture-gimp,  and  maybe 
a  little  paint  and  varnish,  will  go  farther  in  furnishing  a 
room  tastefully  and  comfortably  than  a  whole  "  set "  from 
the  upholsterer's — and  cost,  of  course,  a  great  many  dol- 
lars less. 


43  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOES. 

The  Spare  Bedroom,  the  Boys'  Koom,  and  even  the 
Parlor — which  maybe  has  long  been  a  draw-back  to  happy 
existence  because  of  its  scanty  and  unlovely  furniture, 
may  all  be  made  quite  nice  and  cozy  at  such  a  small  out- 
lay of  money  that  it  is  not  really  wise  to  wait  any  longer 
for  the  more  splendid  things  that  may  never  come. 

Let  us  begin  first  with  Bedrooms,  for  no  matter  how  one 
may  yearn  to  place  every  pretty  thing  where  it  will  make 
the  most  display,  an  honest  house-keeper  will  scrimp  par- 
lor and  dining-room  before  adorning  them  at  the  expense 
of  sleeping-rooms — just  as  a  genuine  lady  Avill  have  good 
and  neatly  made  underclothing  rather  than  outside  silks 
and  velvets,  if  her  purse  will  not  admit  of  both. 

THE  SPARE   BEDROOM. 

If  one  has  good  bedding  and  a  pretty  bedstead  for  this 
room,  the  expense  of  additional  furnishing  will  be  quite 
light.  If  these  are  lacking,  then  it  is  a  more  serious 
aifair.  If  furniture  can  be  bought  unpainted  directly 
from  the  factory  or  shop  where  it  is  made,  it  can  he  had 
at  comparatively  low  figures.  Send  to  the  manufactur- 
ers for  a  catalogue,  if  you  are  too  far  from  them  for  a 
personal  call,  select  something  in  pine  or  whitewood,  and 
trust  to  your  genius  and  the  paint-pot  for  a  respect- 
able bedstead,  and  some  sort  of  small  table  for  lamp, 
books,  etc. 

First  decide  what  the  color  or  tone  of  the  room  shall 
be,  and  paint  the  furniture  accordingly.  If  it  is  a  north 
room,  I  suggest  a  delicate  peach  or  a  straw  color ;  if  a 
south  room,  a  soft  blue,  sage-green,  or  pale  lilac. 

Suppose  a  light  pink  decided  upon.  Let  the  wood- 
work be  painted  with  white  paint,  in  which  has  been 
stirred  enough  vermilion  powder  to  make  a  tint  not 
deeper  than  that  of  a  blush  rose.  A  room  having  but 
one  door  and  a  window  or  two,  presents  so  little  wood 


FUENISHIN^G.  43 

surface  that  perhaps  nice  paint  and  an  outer  coat  of  var- 
nish can  be  afforded. 

For  the  walls  select  a  light  gray  paper  of  a  small  flow- 
ery or  geometric  pattern,  without  color,  with  a  border  of 
pink  roses  and  golden-gi'een  leayes,  or  of  any  other 
pretty  design  in  these  colors.  A  cheap  paper  of  modest 
pattern  and  neatly  put  on,  has  quite  as  good  an  appear- 
ance as  the  more  expensive  sorts,  and  there  is  less  arsenic 
in  its  composition  for  poisoning  the  air. 

For  the  windows,  plain  bleached  cotton  shades,  with  a 
bordering  of  pink  "chambrey"  stitched  on  in  bias 
bands,  will  look  neatly.  Or  lambrequins  may  be  made 
of  the  chambrey,  with  pinked  ruffles  about  the  edge  and 
across  the  top.  Fashiou  journals  generally  send  lambre- 
quin patterns  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  cenfcs,  and  it  is 
worth  while  to  have  a  graceful  pattern,  if  any.  Beneath 
these  lambrequins  nothing  can  be  prettier  in  the  way  of 
inexpensive  fabrics  than  book-muslin,  made  to  hang  in 
ample  folds,  the  bottoms  of  the  curtains  just  clearing 
the  floor,  and  finished  with  a  wide  hem.  In  place  of 
book-muslin,  plain  bleached  cotton  cloth — the  lighter  in 
quality  the  better — can  be  used,  with  two  bands  of  pink 
chambrey  stitched  across  six  inches  from  the  bottom. 

For  the  floor  there  is  nothing  more  cheerful  or  more 
serviceable,  or  freer  from  dnst,  than  straw  matting.  It 
is  also  cheap,  compared  with  other  carpetings.  Direc- 
tions are  given  for  making  inexpensive  carpets  of  wall- 
paper, but  the  process  seems  a  tedious  and  not  a  very 
money-saving  one.  First,  the  floor  must  be  covered  with 
cotton  cloth  sewed  together  in  breadths  and  tucked  down 
very  smoothly  ;  this  is  to  be  covered  with  a  coating  of 
glue  or  thick  flour  paste.  Upon  this  is  laid  the  wall-pa- 
per, and  upon  the  wall-paper  two  coats  of  varnish,  when 
the  ''cheap"  carpet  is  completed.  In  the  long  run,  a 
good  white  matting  would  prove  much  less  expensive, 
besides  being  more  grateful  both  to  vision  and  touch. 


44  FARM  HOMES,   IK-BOORS  A^H  OUT-DOOES. 

But  if  the  latter  is  beyond  the  house-keeper's  purse,  she 
can  give  the  floor  a  border  of  paint  two  shades  darker 
than  that  of  the  gray  wall-paper,  and  cover  the  center 
with  a  large  rug  of  some  home-made  sort.  Or  the  whole 
floor  might  be  covered  with  the  well-known  '^rag"  car- 
peting, if  enough  of  pink  and  gray  4*ags  could  be  evolved 
for  such  a  fabric.  Balls  of  pink,  and  balls  of  gray, 
loosely  twisted  together  and  woven  with  black  warp, 
would  make  a  neat,  appropriate,  and  very  durable  carpet 
at  a  cost,  including  weaving,  of  less  than  twenty  or 
twenty-five  cents  per  yard. 

A  pair  of  handsome  and  luxurious  rugs  can  be  made 
by  lining  two  white  lambs'  pelts  with  suitable  material 
and  placing  a  pleating  of  pink  merino  or  flannel  under 
the  edges. 

Pretty  rugs,  especially  for  summer  use,  are  made  of 
Turkish  towelling  (a  soft,  shaggy,  cotton  goods),  lined 
with  some  heavier  material  and  tied  with  tufts  of  pink 
zephyr  or  worsted.  One  yard  of  the  yard-wide  towelling 
makes  two  rugs.  One  should  be  placed  before  the  toilet 
table  and  the  other  beside  the  'bed.  They  are  easily 
washed,  and  have  a  dainty  and  comfortable  appearance 
in  a  sleeping  room. 

A  very  important  item  is  a  good  bed.  If  you  cannot 
have  a  spring  wire-mattress,  a  tick  filled  with  soft,  clean 
corn-husks  is  one  of  the  best  foundations  for  a  bed. 
Over  this,  in  summer,  place  a  light  mattress  of  cotton 
or  wool.  In  winter  very  few  will  be  found  objecting  to 
a  soft,  well-cared-for  feather-bed,  particularly  when  the 
thermometer  indicates  large  figures  below  zero.  Pillows 
about  two  feet  long  and  eighteen  inches  wide  are  of  good 
size,  both  for  use  and  looks.  If  feathers  are  scarce,  I 
have  known  quite  delightful  pillows  made  of  '*  new- 
mown  hay,"  cut  while  the  grass  is  young,  with  a  hand- 
ful or  two  of  sweet  clover  or  vanilla  grass  to  enhance  its 
agreeable  fragrance. 


FUR2!riSHING.  45 

It  is  a  pleasing  fasliion  nowadays  to  have  some  color 
about  a  bed  in  place  of  plain  white.  Counterpanes  of 
colored  silk  and  satin  are,  of  course,  very  elegant,  but 
th^y  would  be  out  of  place  in  the  simple  appointments 
of  a  farm-house  bedroom.  French  dress  cambric — a 
fine,  glossy  goods,  costing  about  thirty  cents  a  yard,  and 
sold  in  all  shades — rmakes  very  pretty  counterpanes  when 
thmly  wadded  and  nicely  quilted  in  diamonds  with  a 
sewing  machine.  In  this  room  the  color  chosen  should, 
of  course,  be  pink,  and  the  stitching  should  be  done 
with  precision. 

For  pillow  and  sheet-shams  select  heavy  bleached  cot- 
ton cloth,  and  make  up  with  a  wide  hem  and  cambric 
ri^ffles.  The  pillow-shams  should  be  only  the  width  of 
the  ruffle  larger  than  the  pillows,  and  the  sheet-sham 
wide  enough  to  turn  down  two  feet,  or  about  one- third 
the  length  of  the  bed.  The  sheets  and  pillow-cases  may 
have  simply  wide  hems,  as,  if  they  are  neatly  made  and 
white  as  snow,  they  are  quite  beautiful  enough.  They 
should  be  kept  in  a  drawer  with  bags  of  rose-leaves,  lav- 
ender, or  the  aromatic  sweet  briar,  and  not  put  on  the 
bed  until  wanted,  when  they  should  be  well  aired  to  re- 
move even  the  faintest  suspicion  of  dampness.  Fra- 
grant snow-white  *' bed-linen"  is  within  the  reach  of 
almost  the  poorest  housewife  in  the  world,  and  makes 
the  plainest  bed  an  inviting  couch. 

In  the  winter,  that  comfortable  article,  a  foot-blanket, 
for  wrapping  up  the  feet  on  cold  nights,  can  be  made  of 
two  yards  of  white  flannel,  bound  about  the  edges  with 
pink  cambric  or  ribbon.  It  should  be  folded  and  placed 
across  the  foot  of  the  bed. 

A  common  dry-goods  box  of  the  right  size,  when  pret- 
tily covered,  makes  a  much  more  satisfactory  toilet  table 
than  anything  that  can  be  had  under  five  dollars  at  the 
furniture  dealers.  Select  a  box  of  a  suitable  hight, 
about  three  feet  long  and    twenty-eight  inches  wide. 


46  FAEM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AKD   OUT-DOOKS. 

Let  the  open  side  come  in  front,  to  be  lined  witli  paper 
and  used  as  a  receptacle  for  slop- jar,  etc.  Nail  a  strip  of 
board,  six  inches  wide  and  three  feet  long,  to  the  top  of 
the  box  next  the  wall.  Buy  a  piece  of  plain  white  or 
marbled  oilcloth,  long  enough  to  cover  this,  and  the  top  of 
the  box,  and  put  it  on  neatly,  bringing  the  edges  low 
enough  that  no  tacks  will  be  displayed.  Cover  the  ends 
of  the  box  also  with  paper.  Then  line  some  coarse 
book-muslin  with  pink  paper-cambric  and  drape  it  upon 
the  box  sufficiently  full  to  hang  gracefully.  Make  a  nar- 
row plaiting  or  ruffling  of  muslin  and  place  it  around 
the  top  and  down  the  opening  in  front,  where  the  ends 
of  the  curtain  or  "valance"  must  overlap.  The  mirror, 
which  should  be  at  least  two  feet  long — a  larger  one 
being,  of  course,  all  the  better — must  rest  upon  the  oil- 
cloth-covered board  that  forms  the  back  of  the  table,  and 
have  its  frame  covered  with  a  ruching  of  the  pink-lined 
muslin.  At  either  side  of  the  bottom  of  the  mirror 
place  small  brackets,  covered  and  draped  with  tiny  lam- 
brequins of  muslin  and  cambric.  They  can  be  made  of 
cigar-boxes,  or  any  light,  thin  'wood,  and  will  afford  a 
place  for  small  vases  and  cologne  bottles.  Then  with 
pink  and  white  mats  for  wash-bowl  and  pitcher,  a  pretty 
pin-cushion,  and  one  or  two  boxes  (for  bi-ushes  and 
combs),  covered  with  cambric  and  muslin,  this  important 
item  of  furniture  is  completed. 

And  now  the  husband  or  tho  big  boy  of  the  household 
must  make  a  lounge  frame.  No  matter  how  roughly  it 
is  put  together,  if  it  is  only  reliably  strong  and  stands 
squarely  on  its  legs.  It  should  be  about  twenty-eight 
inches  wide,  and  not  more  than  sixteeu  inches  high ;  if 
higher  it  will  lose  its  comfortable  look,  and  have  the  ap- 
pearance of  being  on  stilts  by  the  time  the  mattress  is 
added.  Nail  slats  across  tlie  top,  and  make  a  mattress 
for  it  of  fine  hay  or  oat  straw.  Then  buy  some  calico,  or 
percale,  or  dress  cambric  in  pink  and  white  stripes,  and 


FUEKISHIKG.  47 

make  a  cover  and  valance  for  the  lounge,  also  covering  a 
large  square  pillow  to  place  at  one  end.  Seven  yards  of 
cambric  or  percale  will  be  sufficient,  but  if  calico  is  used  two 
or  three  yards  more  will  be  needed.  If  one  is  dependent 
on  a  small  country  store  for  supplies,  it  may  be  necessary 
to  order  by  mail  from  the  nearest  city.  No  other  cheap 
goods  will  look  as  well. 

Any  old  second-hand  "light-stand,"  or  similar  article 
of  furniture,  can  be  transformed  into  a  comely  little  ta- 
ble by  giving  it  two  coats  of  the  rose-colored  paint  and  a 
final  one  of  varnish.  Perhaps  a  handsome  cluster  of 
roses  or  lilies  can  be  applied  to  the  center. 

It  will  be  thought  that  the  purchase  of  chairs  cannot 
be  avoided  ;  but  wonders  can  be  done  with  the  paint-pot 
and  two  old  kitchen  chairs,  and  perhaps  the  big  boy  just 
mentioned  can  make  a  frame  for  a  large  easy  chair.  He 
must  be  sure  to  have  the  seat  broad  and  low,  and  the 
back  at  just  the  right  angle.  A  little  hay  and  four 
yards  of  percale  and  ingenious  fingers  will  accomplish 
the  rest,  and,  with  a  foot-stool,  nothing  more  is  needed 
in  this  line. 

By  all  means  have  a  stove  in  this  room,  since  even  the 
warmest  ■  hospitality  can  hardly  counteract  the  chill  at- 
tendant on  going  to  bed  in  a  fireless  room  in  January ! 
To  save  the  trouble  of  storing  it  in  summer,  it  might  be 
allowed  to  remain  in  the  room  the  year  round,  decorated 
with  evergreens  and  other  cool  foliage  during  those 
months  when  a  fire  is  not  needed. 

And  now  do  not  disfigure  these  pure  walls  with  a  lot 
of  hap-hazard,  meaningless  pictures  and  fussy  fancy 
work  !  Bedroom  walls,  as  well  as  others,  should  be  se- 
rene. It  is  enough  to  have  a  pair  of  good  engravings,  or 
good  chromos,  and  a  "  motto  "  that  has  some  appropriate- 
ness about  it — for  instance,  *'At  Evening-time  There 
Shall  be  Light,"  "Let  Not  Your  Heart  be  Troubled," 


48  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOOES  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

''Happy  Dreams  and  a  Glad  To-morrow" — something 
calming  and  hopeful. 

Blue,  sea-green,  and  lilac,  combined  with  white  or 
gray,  are  all  beautiful  colors  for  bedrooms,  and  with 
taste  and  ingenuity  an  inviting  apartment  can  be  made 
out  of  inexpensive  materials. 

THE   boys'   room. 

The  Boys'  Room  is  often  much  neglected  in  the  way 
of  a  little  painstaking  adornment,  particularly  in  coun- 
try homes.  I  could  never  see  clearly  why  all  the  pretty 
things  should  gravitate  to  the  rooms  occupied  by  the 
girls,  while  the  boys'  room  goes  almost  as  bare  as  the  an- 
cient cupboard  of  Mother  Hubbard. 

If  the  girls  are  to  have  a  blue  room,  or  a  lilac  room,  let 
the  boys  also  have  a  room  distinguished  by  color.  A 
housewife,  without  great  outlay,  can  *  individualize"  all 
bedrooms  in  this  way.  If  everything  cannot  be  done  at 
once,  what  is  done  can  be  in  accordance  with  a  special 
design. 

Let  the  boys  have  a  room  where  the  sunlight  comes  in, 
and  let  the  walls  be  attractively  tinted,  and  the  floor 
nicely  painted,  with  large,  comfortable  rugs  before  beds, 
toilet-stands,  and  bureaus  ;  and,  out  of  regard  for  the 
masculine  mmd's  hatred  of  things  that  need  constant  re- 
placing, have  these  rugs  securely  tacked  down  ! 

Then  there  should  be  a  good  bed — or  beds,  if  there  are 
more  than  two  boys — with  plump  pillows  and  counter- 
panes to  match  the  color  of  the  room.  Common  glazed 
cambric,  thinly  wadded  and  neatly  quilted,  looks  very 
nicely,  and  if  properly  cared  for  will  remain  bright  and 
unsoiled  for  years. 

A  model  house-keeper  of  my  acquaintance  has  a  large, 
airy  room  for  her  three  boys  which  is  very  pleasant  to 
look  upon,  and  yet  its  appointments  cost  very  little. 
The  walls  are  covered  with  a  bluish-gray  paper,  with  a 


PUENISHIIfG.  49 

bright  border  of  blue-flag  blossoms  and  rich  green  leaves. 
The  wood-work  and  the  floor  for  a  yard's  width  about  the 
room  was  painted,  by  the  oldest  boy,  a  light  lead  color,  at 
a  cost  of  a  dollar  and  a  half.  The  center  of  the  floor  is 
covered  with  a  large,  square,  braided  rug  of  black  and 
gray  rags,  with  a  square  of  blue  in  the  middle,  and  there 
are  smaller  rugs  of  similar  pattern  before  the  bureau  and 
the  toilet-table. 

The  two  windows  on  opposite  sides  of  the  room  are 
hung  with  graceful  lambrequins  of  blue  and  gray  calico 
that  cost  six  cents  a  yard,  being  of  extra  quality  ! 

A  solid,  oblong  kitchen  table,  with  neat  lead-colored 
legs  and  a  cover  of  gray  linen,  bordered  with  blue — 
which  I  mistrust  is  kept  in  place  by  the  big  Dictionary 
and  a  large  book  of  birds — stands  in  the  center  of  the 
room,  and  above  it  is  suspended  a  hanging  lamp,  particu- 
larly bright  and  shining,  although  it  is  set  in  just  a 
square  of  board  with  a  wire  running  up  from  each  cor- 
ner. A  fleecy  frilling  of  blue  tissue  paper  conceals  the 
board,  and  the  plain  little  lamp  becomes  a  pretty  feature 
m  the  room. 

There  are  three  "cot"  beds  at  one  end  of  the  apart- 
ment. Each  has  a  corn-husk  mattress  (with,  in  winter, 
another  of  wool),  an  oat-straw  pillow,  neat,  plain  shams, 
and  a  woven  blue  and  white  counterpane,  like  those  of 
olden  times. 

The  somewhat  elongated  toilet-table — for  it  must  ac- 
commodate three  boys,  who  generally  must  dress  at  the 
same  time — is  made  from  a  packing-box  and  neatly 
draped  with  the  blue  and  gray  print.  Above  it  is  a  long 
mirror,  placed  lengthwise,  and  there  are  brush  and  comb 
boxes  for  each  boy.  , 

In  one  comer  stands  a  large  wardrobe  for  clothes,  and 
opening  from  the  room  is  a  small  closet,  warmed  in  cold 
weather  by  a  pipe  from  the  winter-kitchen  stove,  and 
containing  conveniences  for  washing  and  bathing. 
3 


50  FARM  HOMES,    I2S"-D00RS  AND  OUT-DOOBS. 

The  walls  have  two  very  good  chromo  landscapes, 
framed  by  the  boys.  A  deer's  head  and  an  old  Indian 
hatchet  hang  among  the  guns  and  fishing-tackle,  that 
give  a  vigorous  boyish  tone  to  the  room.  Over  the  door 
is  a  lovely  thing — to  my  eyes:  a  motto  done  with  water- 
paints  and  by  young  hands,  but  it  is  easy  enough  to  read 
the  words  "Remember  Mother"  among  its  gay  leaves 
and  blossoms.  And  in  this  home  "mother"  is  remem- 
bered, and  she  has  always  remembered  her  boys. 

It  does  not  follow  that  every  farm-house  mother  must 
have  a  large  room  with  a  blue-counterpaned  bed  for  each 
boy,  although  I  would  strongly  recommend  the  arrange- 
ment, with  a  variation  of  color  !  "  Individual "  beds  are 
not  only  more  conducive  to  health,  but  in  this  case  they 
do  away  with  a  great  deal  of  the  characteristic  pinching 
and  squabbling  of  nocturnal  boyhood !  They  make  a 
little  more  washing,  to  be  sure,  but  the  sheets  a;re  small 
and  easily  laundried. 

I  quote  this  room  to  show  that  it  is  not  much  more 
trouble  to  have  things  comfortable  and  harmonious  than 
it  is  to  have  them  the  reverse.  The  three  boys  might 
have  been  pitched  into  this  room — if  I  may  be  permitted 
the  expression — with  one  bed,  a  broken  lookmg-glass,  a 
three-legged  chair,  and  a  shelf  for  a  tin  candle-stick, 
with  their  only  chance  for  washing  and  bathing  offered 
by  the  kitchen  sink  or  the  mill-pond.  But  I  do  not  be- 
lieve they  would  have  liked  this  room  for  a  reading-place, 
or  a  studio,  or  been  proud  to  invite  their  mates  there,  or 
that  they  would  have  worked  so  laboriously  to  create 
that  blessed  motto  over  the  door. 

The  chief  beauty  of  any  room,  whether  richly  or 
plainly  furnished,  is  its  purity  and  orderliness ;  and  the 
Boys'  Room  needs  daily  attention  to  make  it  a  place  they 
will  look  back  to  in  after  years  with  the  keenest  and  ten- 
derest  memories.  How  many  grown-up  hearts  there  are 
who  can  say,  with  Ilood  : 


FURI^ISHING.  51 

I  remember — I  remember 

The  house  where  I  was  bom, 
The  little  window  where  the  sun 

Came  peeping  in  at  morn. 
He  never  came  a  wink  too  soon, 

Or  brought  too  long  a  day, 
But  now  I  often  wish  the  night 

Had  borne  my  breath  away  I" 

We  will  not  believe  that  Hood  really  wished  to  die — • 
for  there  was  nothing  in  his  good  life  to  make  him  tired 
of  earth — but  he  was  tenderly  in  earnest  when  he  recalled 
the  scenes  of  his  early  days,  even  to  the  **  little  window/' 
through  which  the  sun  smiled  him  Good  Morning,  and 
the  lilac-tree  ''where  the  robin  built."  Youth  is  such  a 
rose-tinted  time  that  perhaps  a  bedroom  window  looking 
out  upon  a  chaotic  back-yard,  and  looking  in  upon  a  room 
with  battered  walls,  a  lumpy  bed  and  a  couple  of  weak- 
legged  chairs,  would  be  something  sweetly  remembered 
in  after  years  ;  but  I  am  inclined  to  doubt  it.  A  window, 
brushed  by  the  boughs  of  a  lilac,  or  an  apple-tree,  with 
its  sweet  blossoms  and  humming  bees,  and  beyond  it 
glimpses,  of  hill  and  valley  and  the  radiant  sky,  is  the 
window  for  the  Boys'  Room,  and  there  should  be  pleasant 
little  touches  of  beauty  and  comfort  within  that  need 
cost  hardly  anything  but  motherly  thoughtf ulness. 

If  help  is  scarce  in  the  house,  and  the  mother's  hands 
are  full,  it  may  not  be  out  of  place  in  this  subject  of 
''furnishing"  the  Boys'  Eoom,  to  suggest  here  that  the 
boys  can  assist  in  keeping  it  in  order.  They  can  make 
beds  and  sweep  floors  with  the  most  admirable  neatness 
and  dispatch,  because  their  arms  are  so  strong  and  their 
feet  are  not  impeded  by  the  long  skirts  the  poor  mother 
is  doomed  to  wear.  If  a  boy  is  ashamed  to  be  seen  doing 
"girl's  work,"  let  him  be  more  ashamed  still  of  being  an 
unmanly  shirk,  and  letting  his  over-burdened  mother 
do  for  him  work  that  he  has  time  and  ability  for  doing 
himself.     I  know  a  boy,  keen  and  bright  enough  to  be  a 


52  FAEM   HOMES,    IN-DOOES    AND   OUT-DOORS. 

future  President,  and  plucky  enough  to  win  more  wolf- 
bounty  in  his  county  last  winter  than  any  two  men  hunt- 
ers, who  can  put  a  room  to  rights,  cook  a  beefsteak,  and 
set  the  table  for  dinner,  as  quickly  and  daintily  as  any 
woman,  without  any  apparent  loss  of  self-respect,  or  the 
least  bit  of  damage  to  his  gritty  young  manhood. 

THE   OLD  people's   ROOM. 

11  you  are  so  fortunate  as  to  have  the  ''Old  People  "  in 
the  house,  see  to  it  that  they  have  its  warmest  and  sun- 
niest corner,  and  a  goodly  portion  of  the  best  that  can 
be  afforded  of  comfort,  convenience,  and  beauty — that 
aged  blood  may  be  kept  warm  and  cheerful,  that  failing 
limbs  may  have  restful  repose,  and  that  the  dim  eyes 
that  have  watched  over  you  and  yours  through  so  many 
toilsome  years,  may  see  around  them  the  ever  present 
evidences  of  faithful  and  grateful  care. 

There  is  nothing  in  the  world  more  pathetic  than  the 
meek,  timorous,  shrinking  ways  of  certain  old  people — 
we  have  all  seen  them — who  have  given  up  their  old  home 
into  younger  hands  and  subsided  into  some  out-of-the- 
way  corner  of  it,  to  sit  by  fireside  and  at  table  henceforth 
as  if  they  were  mere  pensioners — afraid  of  ''making 
trouble,"  afraid  of  being  "in  the  way,"  afraid  of  accept- 
ing the  half  that  is  their  due,  and  going  down  to  their 
graves  with  a  pitiful,  deprecating  air,  as  if  constantly 
apologizing  for  staying  so  long  ! 

There  is  no  scorn  too  deep  and  sharp  for  the  sons  and 
daughters  who  will  accept  this  attitude  on  the  part  of 
those  to  whom  they  owe  so  much  I 

Sometimes,  to  be  sure,  people  grow  old  with  a  bad  grace. 
They  become  embittered  by  misfortune,  or  affliction,  or 
are  peevish  and  unreasonable  under  the  goadings  of  ill- 
health.  All  the  more  do  they  appeal  to  great  gentleness 
and  faithfulness.  Let  it  be  borne  in  mind  that  we,  too,  are 
hastening  on  toward  the  sunset  of  life,  and  that  it  is  pos- 


FURNISHING.  53 

sible  we  may  ripen  ioto  very  uncomfortable  old  people,  to 
demand  much  more  of  patience  and  devotion  than  we  as 
children  yield. 

The  Old  People's  room  should  be  as  pleasant  and 
homelike  as  possible.  Let  the  old-fiishioned  furniture 
and  the  old-fashioned  ways  prevail  in  it.  I  think  no  one 
thing  could  delight  the  old  hearts  more  than  an  open 
fire-place,  with  some  ancient  andirons,  and  a  crane  with 
its  pendant  tea-kettle  !  These  fire-places  are  rapidly 
becoming  extinct,  but  to  most  old  people  living  in  the 
present  generation  they  would  be  radiant  with  pictures  of 
youth  and  early  love.  A  fire  like  this  is  not  only  a  de- 
light to  the  aged,  but  a  pleasant  care.  How  the  old 
mother,  who  was  such  a  thrifty  housewife  in  her  "  day," 
enjoys  polishing  the  brass  heads  of  the  fire-dogs,  brush- 
ing the  tidy  hearth,  and  brewing  the  special  cup  of  tea 
in  the  little  old  pot  that  looks  so  entirely  **at  home" 
upon  the  glowing  coals  !  And  with  what  solicitude  does 
grandfather  prepare  the  wood  and  kindlings  for  this  be- 
loved hearth-fire !  How  he  enjoys  stretching  his  aged 
hands  to  the  ruddy  blaze,  while  he  croons  some  quaint 
old  hymn  in  concord  with  the  singing  kettle  !  What  a 
vast  amount  of  poking  and  reconstructing  the  sticks 
require,  and  how  important  it  is  that  when  the  early,  old- 
fashioned  bedtime  comes,  there  must  be  just  the  right  sort 
of  coals  for  the  morning  fiie  !  Think  of  giving  the  Old 
People  a  grim  looking,  air-tight  stove  that  swallows  a  huge 
chunk  in  the  morning,  and  then,  like  an  anaconda,  re- 
quires nothing  more  until  its  big  lunch  is  digested  I 
Provide  the  stove,  if  the  severity  of  climate  demands  it, 
but  have  the  open  fire  for  love's  sake  !  Aside  from  the 
good  cheer  and  the  companionship  which  it  offers,  it 
swallows  up  the  dust,  assists  to  ventilate  the  room,  and 
adds  so  much  to  the  physical  well-being  of  the  occupants 
that  it  should  be  instituted  for  this  reason  alone — if  its 
poetical  side  seems  of  little  value. 


54  FARM  HOMES,   IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

It  is  essential  that  the  Old  People  should  have  their  own 
rooms,  where  their  quiet  and  retirement  can  be  held 
sacred.  If  there  are  but  two  rooms  in  the  house,  the 
grandfather  and  grandmother  are  entitled  to  one  of 
them.  The  confusion  of  a  "blue  Monday,"  or  the  noisy 
overflow  of  animal  spirits  in  children,  may  be  very  invig- 
orating to  younger  nerves,  but  it  is  not  always  agreeable 
to  the  aged,  who  need  a  haven  of  peace  and  repose  suited 
to  the  Indian  Summertime  of  their  lives.  In  this  quiet 
comer  let  them  gather  about  them  the  old  and  familiar 
treasures  with  which  they  began  the  world  together — but 
be  careful  to  add  enough  of  "modern  improvements"  to 
insure  their  comfort  and  convenience.  The  old  clock, 
the  towering  chest,  the  battered  china,  tlie  dim  oil- 
portraits,  and  even  the  "weeping-willow"  lithographs — 
pathetic  with  the  memory  of  the  early  lost — will  seem 
like  old  and  faithful  friends  to  them ;  but  let  the  old- 
fashioned  draught  under  the  door  be  shut  out  with  a 
patent  weather-strip,  and  the  dim  candles  of  the  past  be 
replaced  by  a  cheerful  lamp.  A  monthly  rose  and  a 
chrysanthemum  in  one  of  the  sunny  windows  will  be 
another  pleasant  charge  for  grandmother,  and  a  good 
book  or  a  fresh  newspaper  should  often  find  its  way  to 
the  mantel  beside  grandfather's  "spectacles." 

It  is  well  worth  while  to  deny  one's  self  many  things 
rather  than  this  room  should  be  bleak  and  cheerless  to 
these  fading  lives.  All  too  soon  will  the  fire  go  out  on 
the  hearth,  and  the  old  arm-chairs  stand  empty.  It  will  be 
well  for  us  then  if  no  ghosts  of  reproach,  no  sad  phantoms 
of  lost  opportunity,  lean  out  of  the  chill  and  the  silence  to 
remind  us  of  our  deep  sins  of  neglect  and  indifference  ! 
After  all,  the  "good  will"  goes  farther  than  the  great 
deeds.  The  scant  furniture,  the  plain  dinner,  and  the 
last  year's  almanac  for  reading,  will  all  be  very  pleasant 
and  grateful  to  the  Old  People,  if  faithful  love  and  cheer- 
ful devotion  sweeten  the  atmosphere  ;  and  in  a  thousand 


FURNISHING.  55 

inexpensive  ways  can  frugal   living  be  tempered  and 
softened  to  their  needs. 

mother's  room. 

Every  good  home  must  have  its  "  Mother's  Eoom  " — • 
the  pleasant  half  nursery,  half  sitting-room,  that  enfolds 
all  the  family  in  its  affectionate  atmosphere,  and  leads 
each  member  to  feel  that  here  at  least  is  a  bit  of  anchor- 
age ground  from  every  storm  that  blows. 

In  this  room,  also,  let  us  all  insist  on  sunlight  and  an 
open  fire — things  that  go  farther  in  furnishing  an  apart- 
ment than  anything  that  can  be  found  in  the  shops. 
Open  stoves  of  different  sizes  and  designs  can  be  had  at 
moderate  cost.  Some  are  designed  to  close  into  an  air- 
tight stove,  whenever  it  is  desired  to  "  keep "  the  fire, 
but  these  are  more  expensive  than  the  ordinary  open 
grates,  like  the  "Franklin." 

There  should  be  a  lighted  closet  or  small  room  opening 
from  this  apartment,  containing  a  wardrobe  and  the  con- 
veniences for  bathing  and  dressing.  This  is  very  essen- 
tial— even  in  a  primitively  arranged  farm-home — for 
sponges,  towels,  brushes,  slippers,  and  the  like,  have 
rather  more  of  prose  than  poetry  in  them,  and  no  room 
can  be  properly  used  as  a  sitting-room  where  such  very 
personal  property  manifest's  itself.  Banish  these  things 
to  their  legitimate  place ;  but  if  the  house  is  small,  and 
sleeping-space  limited,  a  bed  can  remain  in  the  room,  and 
if  neatly  made  up,  will  add  to  rather  than  detract  from 
its  air  of  cozy  comfort. 

Since .  there  must  bo  a  few  healthy,  blossoming  plants 
in  the  east  or  south  windows,  and  since  dust  is  their 
natural  enemy,  it  will  be  best  to  give  the  floor  a  three-foot 
border  of  paint  or  stain,  and  cover  the  center  with  a 
square  of  carpeting,  which  can  frequently  be  taken  up 
and  cleaned  with  little  time  and  labor. 


66  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOOES. 

If  the  windows  have  shutters  for  closing  at  night,  they 
require  very  little  drapery.  Plain  white  shades,  with  a 
border  matching  the  color  used  in  furnishing  the  room, 
will  look  well,  and  in  winter  small,  cornice-like  lambre- 
quins of  a  warm,  bright  tint  might  be  added.  Pale,  sun- 
shiny buff,  with  a  touch  of  scarlet  here  and  there — in 
borders,  lambrequins,  cushions,  and  the  like — will  give  a 
bright  and  cheerful  tone  to  this  room,  so  that,  even  in 
stormy  weather,  it  will  have  about  it  hints  of  fair  skies. 
In  ceiling  and  walls  this  tint  is  cheaply  obtained  in  calci- 
mine. The  wood-work,  if  of  clear  pine,  can  be  varnished 
without  paint.  If  old  and  time-scarred,  it  had  best  be 
stained  walnut-color,  or  oiled  and  varnished.  The  large 
square  of  carpet  should  be  in  a  small  leafy  and  mossy  pat- 
tern, of  dark  and  light  brown,  with  a  brown  and  scarlet 
border.  Twelve  yards,  three  breadths  four  yards  long, 
will  make  an  ample  "rug"  for  a  room  twelve  by  fifteen 
feet,  or  even  larger. 

If  there  are  some  household  purses  that  cannot  afford 
even  these  twelve  yards,  let  no  one  be  heart-broken  !  I 
have  known  more  than  one  charming,  home-like  room 
whose  only  carpet  was  of  woven  rags,  or  a  glossy  coat  of 
"ppruce  yellow,"  with  a  braided  rug  before  its  pleasant 
hearth. 

Eag-carpeting,  in  the  manufacture  of  which  the  whole 
family  might  join  one  or  two  evenings  in  each  week,  can 
be  made  so  as  to  be  quite  tasteful,  as  well  as  substantial, 
and  should  be  preferred  to  the  cheap,  easily  worn  and 
easily  faded  hemp  and  cotton -ingrain  carpeting.  For  in- 
stance, if  a  carpet  for  this  buff  and  scarlet  room  is  lack- 
ing, color  all  the  old  white  rags  and  white-ground  cali- 
coes a  deep  orange,  sew  them  in  balls  by  themselves,  and 
then  twist  them  with  balls  made  of  all  colors,  except  red, 
which  must  be  saved  for  the  bordering.  The  twisting 
can  be  accomplished  by  winding  a  ball  of  each  into  one 
ball.     Ten  balls  of  orange,  estimated  at  a  pound  each, 


FURNISHING.  67 

and  ten  balls  of  ''hit  or  miss"  colors  of  the  same  weight, 
will  make  at  least  fifteen  yards  of  carpeting.  After  the 
breadths  are  sewn  together,  and  the  ends  hemmed,  braid 
together  all  the  old  red  flannel  and  black  WQolen  rags 
and  sew  them  around  the  edge  for  a  border.  The  result 
will  be  quite  a  neat  and  stylish  floor-covering,  of  which 
no  housewife  need  be  ashamed,  and  costing  much  less 
time  and  labor  than  those  dazzling  rag-carpets  in  which 
"shaded"  colors  and  ** feather-stripes"  abound. 

Mother's  Room  must  have  a  lounge — a  lounge  long 
enough  and  wide  enough  and  soft  enough  for  an  after- 
dinner  nap,  and  pretty  enough  to,,  be  ornamental,  as  well 
as  of  use.  Like  that  in  the  spare  room,  the  frame  can 
be  made  at  home  and  covered  with  any  kind  of  material 
that  will  harmonize  with  the  room.  Take  care  to  have 
the  frame  broad  and  low.  Flowered  buff  and  scarlet 
furniture  calico,  such  as  might  be  used  for  the  lambre- 
quins, or  plain  dark  red,  will  make  a  pretty  cover.  Af- 
ter the  frame  is  covered  with  stout  sacking,  securely 
nailed  m  place  so  as  not  to  sag,  tack  on  a  valance  of  the 
chintz  or  calico,  and  make  a  mattress  of  the  same,  filling 
it  with  split  corn-husks  or  nice  straw,  and  tying  it  in 
large  diamonds,  using  tufts  of  scarlet  yarn  for  buttons. 
Around  the  edge  of  the  mattress  place  a  ruffle  or  box- 
plaiting  that  will  fall  over  the  top  of  the  valance.  Then 
make  two  good,  generous  cushions  of  either  feathers  or 
oat-straw,  cover  them  with  the  material,  sew  a  ruffle  or 
plaiting  about  the  edges,  and  the  lounge  is  complete,  ex- 
cept for  a  gaily  striped  afghan,  or  small,  prettily  pieced 
quilt,  which  should  be  folded  and  laid  at  the  foot,  as  a 
convenience  for  covering  the  shoulders  during  a  nap  or 
when  one  is  resting  from  fatigue. 

A  very  comfortable  easy  chair  can  be  fitted  up  by  mak- 
ing a  soft,  thick  cushion  five  feet  long  and  eighteen 
inches  wide,  covering  it  with  the  lounge  material,  tying 
it  also  with  tufts  of  yarn,  and  fastening  it  to  the  back 


58  FARM  HOMES,   IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

and  seat  of  some  old-fashioned  wooden  rocker,  previously 
renewed  with  paint  and  varnish. 

A  low  sewing  chair  (a  kitchen  chair  with  legs  sawed  off 
two  inches)  should  be  cushioned  in  the  same  way,  and 
two  soap  boxes — one  to  contain  rolls  of  sewing  or  mend- 
ing, and  the  other  the  baby's  playthings — can  be  cush- 
ioned so  as  to  be  comfortable  little  seats,  and  covered 
with  the  same  goods. 

There  should  be  a  substantial  table  for  the  center  of 
the  room — one  on  which  children  can  lean  over  lessons 
or  picture-books  without  fear  of  upsetting  the  structure. 
If  one  is  not  so  fortunate  as  to  possess  some  great-grand- 
mother's mahogony  or  cherry-wood  table,  have  a  carpen- 
ter make  one  of  pine,  about  three  by  four  feet,  with 
rounded  corners  and  turned  legs,  and  finish  it  at  home  with 
walnut-stain  and  varnish.  Two  yards  of  double-width 
dark-scarlet  flannel,  hemmed  all  around  with  machine 
stitching  m  silk,  will  make  an  elegant  spread,  or  the  ta- 
ble is  very  well  without  any  covering,  particularly  for 
children's  use  or  for  evening  games. 

Above  this  table  should  be  suspended  a  shaded  lamp, 
to  come  down  to  a  good  reading  or  sewing  level.  It  will 
impart  a  wonderfully  pleasant  and  refined  air  to  the 
room,  give  the  best  light,  and  be  far  safer  than  one  that 
stands  on  the  table. 

There  should  be  a  paneled  bedstead,  either  in  real  or 
imitation  walnut,  and  its  furnishing  should  be  always 
neat  and  fresh  m  appearance.  Farm-mothers  should 
fight  against  the  tendency,  amid  their  many  cares,  to 
neglect  their  own  personal  belongings,  and  to  think  that 
they  have  no  time  for  refined  comforts.  Smooth,  white 
shams,  phimp  pillows,  pretty  counterpanes,  and  laven- 
der-scented sheets,  are  just  as  becoming  to  Mother's 
Room  as  to  that  of  the  occasional  guest;  and  no  more 
time  is  required  to  make  up  such  a  bed  than  one  where 
everything  is  limp  and  disorderly. 


FURNISHIKTG.  59 

Plain  "Turkey-red"  calico,  or  pale-buff  cambric,  or 
''chambrey"  gingham,  wadded  and  quilted,  will  make 
a  suitable  counterpane,  and  hems  and  ruffles  will  be 
sufficient  finish  for  the  shams,  unless  some  neat-handed 
daughter  is  ready  to  put  the  mother's  initials  in  the  cen- 
ter with  scarlet  or  buff  embroidery  cotton. 

Regarding  these  shams,  a  farmer's  wife  once  declared 
to  me  that  she  would  have  no  ''shams"  in  her  house; 
that  their  very  name  was  offensive,  and  that  when  her 
sheets  and  pillows  were  in  such  condition  as  to  need 
hidmg,  she  could  throw  them  into  the  wash  and  pro- 
vide clean  ones. 

Now,  this  is  a  bit  of  virtuous  indignation  altogether 
out  of  place.  Where  a  bed  is  used  every  day  the  pillow- 
slips and  the  sheet  that  should  turn  down  smoothly 
across  the  top,  become,  after  the  first  using,  not  soiled, 
but  rumpled,  and  covering  them  with  smooth,  crispy, 
ruffled  *'  shams"  that  can  be  removed  at  night  and  kept 
immaculate  for  many  weeks,  is  merely  a  praiseworthy  at- 
tempt to  make  even  the  commonest  things  pleasing  to 
the  eye. 

And  now,  with  a  small  clock  for  the  mantel-shelf, 
which  should  be  placed  no  higher  than  your  shoulder,  a 
pleasant  picture  or  two  hung  so  as  to  be  level  with  the 
eye  when  one  is  standing,  a  wall-basket  for  newspapers, 
and  a  rack  for  the  children's  and  other  books,  the 
Mother's  Room  is  ready  for  occupancy. 

THE   girls'   room. 

Most  young  girls  take  so  instinctively  to  refining  and 
beautifying  their  surroundings,  that  it  seems  almost  su- 
perfluous to  offer  them  any  suggestions.  A  writer  in  one 
of  our  home  journals  speaks  of  a  country  girl  of  sixteen 
who,  with  nothing  but  her  ingenious  fingers  and  twenty 
yards  of  five-cent  calico,  made  of  her  bedroom  "  a  per- 
fect bower  of  daintiness  and  purity." 


60  FAEM  HOMES,    II^-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

Neatness  and  order  are  qualities  to  be  had  under  any 
circumstances.  Without  them  the  choicest  furniture 
cannot  make  an  attractive  room,  and  with  them  even  the 
*'loft"  in  a  log  cabin  can  be  made  cosy  and  comfortable. 

Let  us  begin  v/ith  the  humblest  country  home  and  see 
what  things  can  be  done  with  a  little  money.  Suppose 
the  wood-work  unpainted,  the  plaster  rough  or  broken, 
the  floor  bare,  the  chairs  and  bedstead  old  and  ricketty, 
and  the  windows  hung  with  rattling  paper  shades  ?  This 
seems  a  dreary  enough  groundwork  for  any  reasonable 
reformer.  Let  us  commence  with  the  walls  and  ceiling. 
If  there  are  any  broken  places  and  the  "  men-folks  "  are 
too  busy  to  attend  to  such  repairs,  a  few  cents'  worth  of 
plaster  of  Paris  mixed  with  water  and  applied  in  haste, 
for  it  hardens  instantly,  will  neatly  mend  the  holes.  Or 
the  cracks  in  the  lath  can  be  filled  with  paper  and  then 
stout,  white  cloth  smoothly  pasted  over.  Then  mix  a 
whitewash,  coloring .  it  delicately  with  either  Prussian 
blue,  or  vermilion,  or  yellow  ochre,  according  to 
whether  a  blue,  pink,  or  straw-color  is  desired,  and  do 
the  ceiling,  being  sure  to  apply  the  last  coat  all  in  one 
direction  with  smooth,  even  strokes.  Then  add  a  little 
more  of  the  coloring  powder  to  make  a  deeper  tint  for 
the  walls,  and  apply  it  until  all  stains  or  fractures  no 
longer  show.  Stain  the  wood-work  with  burnt  umber 
and  hot  vinegar  after  directions  in  the  chapter  on  Fin- 
ishing. These  dry  powders  or  paints  are  generally  sold 
m  drug  stores,  and  are  not  expensive.  They  can  be  or- 
dered by  mail  if  need  be. 

For  the  windows,  perhaps  the  skirt  of  some  old-fashioned 
lawn  or  cambric  dress  can  be  fashioned  into  graceful  1am- 
brequms.  Or  a  cheap  calico,  with  a  white  ground  and  a 
pink  or  blue  or  buff  flower  or  stripe,  can  be  used  for  the 
purpose.  Under  these  lambrequins  place  either  plain 
curtains  of  bleached  cotton  to  be  rolled  up  on  sticks,  or 
long  full  ones  of  coarse  book-muslin,  if  it  can  be  afforded. 


FUB:srisHiNa.  •  61 

to  be  looped  back  at  either  side,  and  held  in  place  by  bows 
of  ribbon,  or. bunches  of  pressed  leaves. 

Now  arises  the  momentous  question  of  a  floor  covering. 
Straw-matting  is  desirable,  but  it  costs  half  a  dollar,  and 
more,  a  yard.  Rag-carpeting  would  be  neat,  if  made  in 
blue  or  pink,  or  bulf,  mingled  Avith  gray  ;  but  it  requires 
a  good  deal  of  time,  a  good  deal  of  material,  and  there 
may  be  no  weaver  witlim  fifty  miles.  The  cheaj^est  of 
*'  ingrain  "  is  forty  or  fifty  cents  per  yard,  and  fades  easi- 
ly, and  is  generally  in  ugly  patterns.  If  the  floor  is 
smooth  and  close-jointed,  and  there  is  not  much  money 
to  spend,  I  would  send  to  some  house-furnishing  firm  in 
the  nearest  city  for  a  roll  of  wall-paper  in  a  dark,  rich 
*'tile"  pattern,  which  might  cost,  includmg  postage, 
fifty  or  sixty  cents.  This  I  would  paste  smoothly  around 
the  floor  next  the  walls  as  a  border,  taking  pains  to  make 
neat  joints  in  the  corners,  and  when  dry  apply  a  coat  of 
good  varnish.  Over  the  remainder  of  the  floor  tack 
down  a  carpet  made  of  heavy  unbleached  cotton  cloth, 
sewed  in  neat  straight  seams  that  will  not  draw  or  pucker, 
and  bound  all  about  the  edges  with  a  braid  or  cloth  of  a 
color  to  match  that  chosen  for  the  room.  Until  seen  on 
the  floor  no  one  can  imagine  how  pretty  and  cheerful  and 
thoroughly  neat  such  a  car2)et  appears.  With  care  it  can 
be  used  a  whole  summer  without  showing  much  soil,  and 
when  washed  and  tacked  down  again,  is  just  as  good  as 
new.  There  should  be  gay  little  rugs  of  Turkish  towel- 
ling or  braided  rags  to  place  before  bedstead  and  toilet 
table. 

If  the  bedstead  is  some  old  dingy,  creaking  thing  that 
•would  spoil  all  these  efforts,  let  it  be  used  for  kindling 
wood ;  or  what  is  better,  let  the  father  or  the  big  brother 
make  from  it  a  stout  frame  three  feet  wide  by  five  and  a 
half  in  length,  w^ith  slats  nailed  across  the  top,  and  not 
more  than  sixteen  inches  in  hight.  Drape  around  it  a 
white  valance,  and  make  for  it  a  thick  mattress  of  split 


62  FAKM«  HOMES,   I:N^-D00ES  AND  OUT-DOOES. 

com-husks  or  nice  oat  straw.  Over  this  a  thick  com- 
forter of  cotton  or  wool.  No  matter  how  coarse  and  plain 
the  sheets  and  pillow  slips,  if  they  are  only  beautifully 
white.  And  the  pillows  must  be  round  and  plump, 
though  filled  with  nothing  more  costly  than  fine  soft  hay. 
The  counterpane  may  be  of  white,  with  rounded  corners 
at  the  foot — else  it  will  not  hang  gracefully  on  such  a 
bedstead.  It  and  the  shams  may  be  trimmed  with  bias 
bands  of  blue  or  pmk,  or  left  plain  white,  as  one  chooses. 
Something  will  be  added  to  the  prettiness  of  this  couch 
if  a  few  yards  of  book-muslin,  or  of  the  lambrequin  ma- 
terial, be  fastened  to  an  ornamental  hook  in  the  wall  high 
above  the  head  of  the  bed,  and  the  ends  made  to  fall 
gracefully  at  either  side  of  it. 

For  a  cheap  toilet  table,  and  one  easily  made,  secure  a 
large  three-cornered  piece  of  board — large  enough  to 
comfortably  accommodate  a  wash  bowl,  pitcher,  boxes,  etc. 
— and  fasten  it  into  a  comer  of  the  room  where  the  light 
is  best.  Cover  it  with  suitably  colored  cambric,  and  tack 
around  it  a  slightly  full  flounce  of  the  same,  long  enough 
to  reach  the  floor.  Over  this  place  plain  book-muslin, 
with  box  plaitmgs  across  the  edge  and  along  the  bottom. 
The  frame  of  the  mirror  hanging  above  it  should  also  be 
draped  with  cambric  and  muslin,  together  with  a  little 
bracket  at  either  side.  Common  paper  boxes  covered 
with  fancy  paper  or  zephyr-work  should  be  added,  for 
holding  brushes,  combs,  etc. 

A  long  packing  box  of  the  right  height,  lined  with 
paper,  the  cover  hinged,  and  the  whole  neatly  cushioned 
and  draped  with  tastefully  chosen  calico,  will  make  not 
only  a  pretty  lounge,  but  an  excellent  place  for  keeping 
one's  best  dresses. 

If  one  has  no  bureau,  another  box,  not  so  long,  might 
be  fixed  in  the  same  way,  with  partitions  added,  making 
"  a  place  for  everything." 

Saw  off  two  or  three  inches  from  the  le^^s  of  some  old 


FURNISHING.  63 

kitchen  chair,  paint  it  jet  black,  and  varnish;  make  a 
cushion  for  the  seat  and  a  square  zeph3rr-tidy  for  the  back, 
both  of  appropriate  color,  and  a  neat  little  sewing-chair 
IS  the  result. 

Trusting  to  the  fates  and  girlish  energy,  for  a  table 
with  a  shelf  of  books  above  it,  and  some  pretty  pictures 
and  a  motto  for  the  walls,  we  will  leave  this  room,  feeling 
sure  that  even  with  these  humble  and  inexpensive  appli- 
ances, there  is  the  chance  for  peaceful  and  pleasant  hours 
within  that  are  sometimes  unknown  m  more  magnificent 
apartments. 

In  homes  where  daughters  have  larger  means  to  draw 
from,  of  course  there  will  be  no  need  of  the  make-shifts 
here  mentioned.  Delicately-toned  paper  can  be  chosen 
lor  the  walls,  pretty  chintzes  or  cretonnes  for  the  furni- 
ture, and  a  neat,  white  matting  or  lovely  ingrain  for  the 
floor.  But  whatever  the  fittings  of  a  girl's  room  may  be, 
it  is  the  girl  herself  that  gives  it  character.  If  she  is  re- 
fined and  orderly,  and  tasteful,  her  room  will  certainly  be 
an  attractive  little  bower,  whether  she  has  five  dollars  or 
fifty  times  five  to  devote  to  its  adornment. 

Two  elements  should  never  be  forgotten,  books  and 
flowers  !    They  are  the  best  and  the  sweetest  companions. 

THE   KITCHEN. 

One  of  the  finest  house-keepers  in  the  United  States 
says  :  **  If  scrimping  must  be  done,  scrimp  parlor  and 
sitting-room,  but  have  the  kitchen  and  bedrooms  as  com- 
fortable as  possible."  Another  writer  observes:  "The 
kitchen  is  to  the  house  what  the  stomach  is  to  the  body, 
and  should  be  the  most  spacious,  best  lighted,  and  best 
ventilated  apartment  in  the  house."  This  remark,  how- 
ever, is  aimed  mainly  at  city  homes,  where  the  kitchen  is 
too  often  a  mere  little  basement  cellar,  badly  lighted  and 
illy  supplied  with  pure  air,  from  which  it  is  no  wonder 


64  FARM  HOMES,    liT-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

that  the  servants  are  continually  rising  to  the  upper 
regions  to  give  *^  warning."  In  the  country  the  average 
kitchen  is  far  more  decent,  but  still  the  erring  house- 
keeper, anxious  to  "have  things  like  other  people,"  is 
prone  to  pinch  the  poor  kitchen  in  order  to  furnish  the 
parlor  its  gim-cracks. 

This  is  all  wrong.  If  one's  house  were  intended  for 
entertainment  and  continual  festivity,  then  it  would  be 
well  to  place  its  parlor  and  dining-room  first  and  fore- 
most ;  but  in  a  farm-house,  where  the  house-mother's 
work  lies  mainly  in  kitchen  and  dairy,  and  where  are 
needed  all  the  aids  and  conveniences  for  making  this 
work  pleasant  as  well  as  profitable,  it  is  simply  silly  to 
deny  one's  self  valuable  and  useful  every-day  things  for 
the  sake  of  what-nots,  upholstered  chairs  and  Notting- 
ham-lace curtams,  that  must  necessarily  be  shut  up  and 
of  no  benefit  to  anybody  nine-tenths  of  the  year.  It  is 
as  if  some  farmer,  otherwise  of  sound  mmd,  should 
deny  himself  reapers  and  seeders  and  good  horses  in  order 
to  keep  himself  well  supplied  with  broadcloth,  beaver 
hats,  French  boots,  and  fine  linen  I 

However,  if  the  country  house-keeper  would  visit  one 
of  the  large  retail  hardware  establishments  in  the  nearest 
big  city,  with  money  in  her  pocket,  I  have  no  fear  that 
she  would  have  very  much  cash  or  inclination  left  for 
mere  **  best  room  "  adornments,  for  there  is  certainly  no 
more  captivating  field  offered  to  the  eye  of  the  home- 
woman  than  is  found  m  this  branch  of  house-furnishing. 
Before  she  has  half  surveyed  the  wonderful  display  of 
improvements  in  everything,  from  a  magnificent  cooking- 
range  to  a  rotary  nutmeg-grater,  from  an  elegantly  builded 
refrigerator  to  an  apple-corer,  from  an  oil-stove  or  a  dish- 
washing machine  to  the  last  idea  in  clothes-lines  and  car- 
pet tacks — she  will  feel  that  ** hardware"  is  altogether 
too  meagre  a  term  to  apply  to  such  a  world  of  beautiful 
and  helpful  things. 


FURKISHII^-G.  65 

I  wish  sucli  articles  could  find  their  way  into  every 
farm-house  in  the  land,  in  place  of  the  showy  and  useless 
rubbish  that  is  £0  often  toiled  and  struggled  for  at  the 
expense  of  health  and  household  happiness.  A  parlor 
appropriately  furnished  is  always  desirable  ;  but  a  kitchen 
supplied  with  some  modern  conveniences  and  labor- 
saving  implements,  and  so  cheerfully  arranged  that  to  do 
work  in  it  is  a  delight  ratiier  than  drudgery,  is  of  infinite 
more  value,  if  a  choice  must  fall  between  the  two. 

The  room  should  bo  of  good  size,  with  windows  on 
opposite  sides,  as  they  thus  give  a  peculiarly  cheerful 
light.  It  is  a  charming  idea  to  have  the  windows  set  in 
after  the  manner  alluded  to  in  the  Chapter  on  Building. 
They  afford  a  generous  view,  and  with  sills  about  ton 
inches  wide  for  fiowcr-pots,  and  a  cornice  across  the  top 
for  a  little  drapery,  they  arc  very  delightful.  The  ceil- 
ing and  walls  should  be  whitened  or  calcimined  in  some 
cheerful  tint,  and  the  wood-work  oiled  and  varnished. 
For  the  floor — if  it  is  even,  and  of  a  decent  quality  of 
lumber — nothing  is  better  than  two  or  three  coats  of  oil, 
put  on  one  after  the  other  as  fast  as  absorbed.  Such  a 
floor  needs  no  scrubbing,  a  weekly  mopping  with  plenty 
of  warmish  water,  being  sufficient  to  keep  it  clean.  Com- 
fortable little  rugs  should  be  placed  before  the  sink, and 
the  ironing  table ;  and  if  this  room  must  do  duty  as  a 
dining-room,  there  should  be,  in  winter,  a  large  square 
of  carpeting  under  the  dining-table.  A  neat  screen, 
made  by  tacking  chintz  or  furniture  calico  upon  a  light 
wooden  frame,  about  five  feet  high  and  six  feet  wide,  might 
be  placed  between  the  table  and  the  cook-stove,  not  only 
to  temper  the  heat,  but  to  shut  off  the  not  always  attrac- 
tive view  of  saucepans,  spiders,  and  kettles  used  in  the 
dinner-getting. 

The  sink  should  be  capacious,  lined  with  zinc,  provided 
with  drain-pipe,  and  flanked  by  pumps  connecting  with 
cistern  and  well.    Underneath  may  be  a  cupboard  for  pots 


66  FABM   HOMES,    IN-DOOKS   AN^D   OUT-DOORS. 

and  kettles,  and  above  it  a  row  of  pegs  on  whieli  to  hang 
a  dishcloth -holder,  a  stiff  brush  for  cleaning  vegetables, 
a  little  mop  for  washing  bottles  and  narrow-necked  pitch- 
ers and  jars,  the  lamp  scissors,  and  such  small  articles 
as  are  in  daily  use  in  this  department  of  the  kitchen. 
Two  small  shelves  should  be  placed  at  either  end  for  soap- 
dishes.  A  large  conveniently  arranged  sink  goes  a  great 
way  in  making  kitchen- work  easy. 

A  good-sized,  substantial  table  of  white- wood  or  pine 
is  needed  for  ironing  and  baking  days.  It  should  have  three 
drawers — a  large  one  for  ironing-sheets,  shirt-board  and 
holders,  and  two  smaller  ones  for  baking-tins,  spoons  and 
knives  used  in  cooking,  and  boxes  of  spices,  salt,  etc. 
Having  once  used  such  a  table,  no  house-keeper  will  like 
to  do  without  it. 

Above  this  table  can  be  fastened  a  hanging  rack  for 
ironed  clothes.  These  are  much  more  convenient  than 
the  sort  which  stand  on  the  floor,  and  when  not  in  use, 
can  be  folded  back  against  the  wall,  entirely  out  of  the 
way. 

For  washing-days,  are  needed  a  long  bench  two  and  a 
half  feet  wide,  and  of  the  right  hight,  two  or  three  tubs, 
a  wringer,  and  for  heavy  clothes,  a  washer.  The  latter, 
which  costs  $5  or  16,  can  be  fitted  into  any  tub,  and  ought 
to  be  an  indispensable  article.  It  is  to  washing-day  what 
a  reaping-machine  is  to  an  eighty-acre  wheat  field  ;  and 
no  farmer  should  neglect  to  provide  one  for  his  kitchen, 
unless  he  is  willing  to  settle  down  to  his  harvesting  with 
merely  the  sickle  and  the  ** cradle"  of  his  forefathers  1 
These  items  come  under  the  head  of  ki;:chen  furniture, 
but  are,  of  course,  kept  in  the  cellar,  or  in  a  closet  open- 
ing from  the  kitchen. 

Along  with  a  first-class  cooking-stove,  for  it  is  not 
economy  to  have  a  poor  one,  should  be  selected  the  fol- 
lowing quite  necessary  articles  : — Wash-boiler,  tea-kettle, 
soup-pot,  frying-kettle,  spider,  two  or  three  granitized 


FURKISHIl^TG.  67 

saucepans  of  different  sizes,  four  bread-tins,  two  gem- 
irons,  coffee  and  tea-pots,  large  and  small  iron  spoons, 
wire  steak-broiler,  wire  toaster,  steamer,  pudding-mold, 
patty-pans,  potato- masher,  skimmer,  cream- whipper, 
gravy-strainer,  egg-beater,  half  a  dozen  cake  and  pie  tin?, 
large  and  small  graters,  a  dozen  muffin-rings,  or  a  muffin- 
pan,  which  is  more  convenient  than  the  rings,  a  colander, 
a  quart  measure,  and  a  griddle.  No  doubt  other  items 
will  readily  suggest  themselves,  but  these,  at  any  rate, 
are  essential,  if  good  house-keeping  is  the  object.  A 
proper  and  convenient  place  to  keep  them  is  a  large  deep- 
shelved  cupboard  with  close  doors,  in  which  the  common 
crockery  and  glass  can  also  be  kept. 

The  best  arrangement  is  to  have  cupboard-room  for  all 
table  and  cooking  ware,  and  keep  food  and  provision 
stores  in  a  cool,  well  ventilated  closet,  that  can  be  effect- 
ually closed  to  dust  and  flies. 

For  china  and  glass,  and  ornamental  dishes,  a  corner 
cupboard  with  glass  doors,  in  the  uppe.-  part,  and  two  or 
three  drawers  below  for  table-cloths,  napkins,  and  the 
children's  bibs  and  clean  aprons,  will  be  found  a  treasure. 

There  should  be  a  closet  opening  from  the  kitchen  for 
every- day  coats,  hats,  umbrellas,  water-proof  cloaks,  and 
the  like.  Nothing  makes  a  kitchen  look  so  forlorn  and 
disorderly  as  a  lot  of  nondescript  garments  hanging  here 
and  there  about  the  walls,  together  with  bits  of  rope, 
whips,  and  other  masculine  clutter.  There's  a  place  for 
these  things,  but  it  is  not  on  the  walls  of  a  pleasant  and 
tidy  kitchen.  The  closet  just  mentioned  should  be  capa- 
ble of  ventilation,  else  overshoes  and  water-proofs  will 
give  it  a  too  pronounced  atmosphere. 

An  easy  little  rocking-chair,  and  a  good  arm-chair, 
should  be  stationed  by  the  pleasant  windows,  where  a 
tired  baby  can  be  '*  brooded  "  for  a  while,  or  a  newspaper 
caught  up  for  a  moment's  reading. 

Notwithstanding    the    scorn    that    is    heaped    upon 


68  FABM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

"  chromes  "  by  those  who  can  afford  to  buy  real  oil-paint- 
ings and  choice  engravings,  there  are  far  prettier  and 
more  pleasing  pictures  among  them  than  among  many 
of  the  ''old  masters,"  and  any  city  acquaintance  or  re- 
liable dealer  can  send  to  our  country  homes  soft-toned 
landscapes,  and  rich  fruit  and  flower  pieces,  at  a  small 
expense,  that  will  })leasantly  relieve  hsire  walls,  and  often 
give  really  beautiful  effects.  There  are  very  good  en- 
gravings, too,  that  are  not  costly  ;  and  there  is  no  reason 
why  even  a  kitchen  wall  should  be  without  a  beautiful 
face,  a  fair  landscape,  or  a  group  of  flowers  glowing  with 
the  color  of  life. 

Let  the  farmer  provide  a  large  pleasant  kitchen  and 
interest  himself  in  its  conveniences  for  work — being  as 
enthusiastic  in  furnishing  labor-saving  machines  for  this 
department  of  farming  as  for  his  outside  fields — and  ho 
will  find  that  he  makes  an  investment  that  pays  an 
hundred  fold. 

Let  the  farmer's  wife  make  the  kitchen  a  bright  and 
sweet-aired  realm,  and  be  proud  to  be  its  intelligent  and 
efficient  queen.  Let  her  beautify  her  work  as  much  as 
possible,  and  lift  it  above  the  dull,  discouraging  slough 
of  drudgery.  With  conveniences  for  work,  and  a  cheer- 
ful, comfortable  place  to  work  in,  the  women  are  few  who 
will  not  make  their  homes  *'  the  dearest  spot  on  earth  " 
to  all  who  dwell  within  them. 

THE   DININQ-ROOM. 

Although  there  are  many  country  kitchens  so  shining 
and  orderly  and  clean-aired  that  it  is  a  pleasure  to  break 
bread  in  them,  there  are  many  others  which,  owing  to  a 
large  family  and  a  pressure  of  work,  cannot  always  be 
nice  and  orderly  at  meal  times  ;  so  it  is  well,  if  it  can  bo 
afforded,  to  have  a  small  cheerful  room  opening  from  the 
kitchen,  easily  warmed  in  winter,  and  from  which  heat 


FURIs^ISHING.  69 

and  flies  can  be  excluded  in  summer,  where  meals  can  be 
eaten  in  the  healthful  serenity  and  comfort  which  is  al- 
most as  essential  as  the  food  itself.  What  can  be  more 
refreshing  to  the  laborer  than  to  enter  from  the  blister- 
ing glare  of  a  harvest  day  into  a  cool,  softly-lighted  room 
in  which  the  fragrance  of  freshly  gathered  flowers,  or  the 
aroma  of  leafy  boughs,  mingles  its  poetry  with  the  cheer- 
ful prose  of  the  beef  and  vegetables  ?  And  how  pleasant 
and  restful  it  is  for  his  helpmate  to  lay  aside  her  kitchen 
cares  and  kitchen-apron  together,  and  come  smiling  and 
tidy  to  her  little  throne  behind  the  tea-service. 

Such  a  room  requires  very  little  furniture.  The  walls 
should  be  of  neat  and  quiet  tint,  with  two  or  three  pleas- 
ing pictures  and  sgme  brackets  for  pots  of  ferns,  or  such 
vines  as  will  grow  prettily  in  the  shade  during  the  hot 
summer  weather.  In  winter  a  few  petunias  and  two  or 
three  foliage  plants  will  fill  the  sunny  windows  with 
brightness  and  bloom.  There  should  be  a  long,  sub- 
stantial table,  with  plenty  of  elbow  room  for  all,  and  a 
side-board  or  cupboard  for  table  crockery.  A  small  table 
will  be  found  a  convenience — ^if  there  is  no  side-board — 
for  holding  such  dishes  as  are'uscd  toward  the  end  of  a 
meal  at  dinner  time,  when  the  varieties  of  food  have  a 
tendency  to  crowd  each  other.  .The  window  curtains 
may  be  plain  shades  of  color  suited  to  the  walls  of  the 
room.  Nothing  can  be  better  for  the  floor  in  summer 
time  than  an  oiled  surface,  like  that  of  the  kitchen, 
which  can  be  made  comfortable  to  the  feet  in  winter 
by  a  large  **  crumb-cloth "  of  drugget  or  home-made 
carpeting. 

In  more  opulent  farm-homes  where  the  wife  has  liberty 
to  devote  more  time  and  means  to  house  decoration  and 
furnishing,  very  handsome  dining-rooms  can  be  achieved 
with  a  moderate  outlay.  There  should  be  high  walls,  a 
fire-place,  and  a  fine  large  window  looking  to  the  south  or 
east.     All  the  rest  is  in  the  hands  of  the  mistress.     If 


70  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOOES   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

the  floor  has  been  laid  in  light  and  dark  woods,  well  and 
good.  It  will  be  a  thing  of  beauty  through  more  than 
one  life  time,  and  always  look  genuine  and  substantial, 
as  everything  about  a  dining-room  should.  If,  however, 
the  floor  is  of  pine,  it  may  be  stained  in  blocks  or  stripes 
in  a  bordering  two  feet  in  width,  covered  with  two  coats 
of  best  varnish,  and  the  center  adorned  with  three  or 
more  breadths  of  pretty  carpeting. 

Supposing  green  and  oak  to  have  been  chosen  for  the 
colors  of  this  room — the  ceiling  calcimined  with  pale 
sage-green,  and  the  wood-work  either  treated  with  oak- 
graining  or  oiled  and  varnished  without  paint :  Select 
for  the  walls  a  flat-figared  paper  in  oak  and  green  tints, 
and  place  around  the  top  a  wide  bordar  or  frieze  in  black 
and  green  and  oak,  with  perhaps  a  touch  of  rich  maroon. 
The  carpet  should  be  of  small  figure  in  green  and  oak, 
with  a  border  of  maroon.  The  window  lambrequins 
should  be  of  green  rep  with  green  and  oak  gimp  and 
fringe,  or  of  black-ground  chintz  with  a  gold  and  greea 
foliage  pattern.  A  few  neatly  potted  and  luxuriant 
plants  should  be  kept  upon  the  sills,  which  can  also  be 
decorated  with  lambrequins  if  liked. 

Have  a  carpenter  construct  a  side-board  of  simple  but 
substantial  form,  faced  with  oak  or  maple,  or  else  made 
of  the  best  of  pine.  Glue  artificial  wood-carvings  of 
fruits  in  the  center  of  the  top,  and  upon  each  door  and 
drawer,  and  finish  the  whole  with  oil  and  varnish. 

The  table  may  also  be  home-made  and  large  and  solid, 
with  rounded  comers  and  substantial  turned  lep^s  "with 
casters.  If  not  of  real  oak,  the  legs  should  be  nicely 
grained  to  imitate  it.  If  colored  table  linen  is  used  it 
should  be  buff  and  white,  with  green  borders,  or  buff  and 
green  in  any  neat,  small  patterns.  Those  cloths,  how- 
ever, are  generally  covered  with  plain  white  ones  at  meal 
time. 

Above  this  table  there  should  be  a  handsome  hanging 


FURNISHING.    •  71 

lamp  or  small  chandelier,  with  perhaps  a  little  basket  of 
Kennelworth  Ivy,  or  other  gracefully  growing  vine,  sus- 
pended from  it.  Such  a  light  glorilies  the  plainest  tea- 
table. 

As  for  chairs  there  are  a  great  many  ways  for  achiev- 
ing handsome  ones  without  paying  five  dollars  apiece  for 
them  at  furniture  shops.  If  a  dozen  oak  chairs  without 
seats  can  be  obtained  *'  in  the  rough  "  at  the  factory,  they 
can  be  transformed  into  something  pretty  and  substantial 
at  small  cost.  They  should  first  be  oiled  and  varnished. 
Then  with  some  stout  sacking  or  canvas,  some  ricli,  dark 
cretonne,  some  gimp  and  furniture  tacks,  and  either  hair 
or  wool  for  stuffing,  upholster  the  seats — bemg  careful  to 
fasten  the  canvas  securely  in  place  and  to  cut  the  cre- 
tonne to  fit  neatly.  Even  the  cheap  ** splint-bottoms" 
which  cost  much  less  than  oak,  can  be  made  into  hand- 
some chairs  by  painting  the  wood-work  black,  ornament- 
ing it  with  gilt  and  scarlet  lines,  and  varnishing — the 
seats  to  be  upholstered  in  cretonne,  striped  linen,  or 
common  chintz. 

For  pictures,  let  us  do  away  with  the  poor  slaughtered 
innocents  that  have  so  long  been  selected  for  dmmg-room 
walls  !  Why  is  a  dead  fish  with  its  ghastly  open  mouth, . 
or  a  shot  partridge  hanging  by  one  leg  to  a  nail,  consid- 
ered a  pleasing  object  for  contemplation  while  one  is  eat- 
ing ?  '*  Game  Pieces  "  ought  to  be  banished  to  the  walls 
of  butchers'  shops  !  In  our  dining-rooms  let  us  rather 
have  friendly  portraits,  children's  faces,  radiant  flowers, 
and  living  birds  and  fishes. 

THE  PARLOR. 

I  place  this  room  last  because  it  is  least  in  every  genu- 
ine home — the  home  that  is  made  to  be  used  and  enjoyed 
by  the  family.  If  means  are  small  and  best  room  furni- 
ture seems  to  be  among  the  things  never  to  be  obtained. 


72  FARM  HOMES,    IN -DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

let  not  the  whole  house  be  made  dismal  because  of  it ; 
but  rejoice  that  there  is  a  kitchen,  that  there  are  com- 
fortable bedrooms,  and  that  there  is  a  bit  of  Heaven  m 
the  form  of  a  flower  garden  under  the  windows  ! 

I  know  a  good  woman,  the  wife  of  a  hard-working  and 
not  very  wealthy  farmer,  who  ha:;  spent  years  of  her  life 
toiling  and  scrimping  and  pinching  herself  and  her 
family  to  the  one  end  of  having  a  handsome  parlor  and  a 
handsome  spare  bedroom  furnished  after  her  own  heai*t. 
She  has  them  now — the  bright  Brussels  carpet,  the  lace 
curtains,  the  upholstered  chairs,  the  gilt-framed  mirror, 
the  glittering  wall-paper,  the  richly  bound  Bible,  the 
marble-topped  table,  the  "pair"  of  mammoth  heavily 
framed  pictures,  and  m  the  bedroom  the  magnificent  bed 
and  all  its  appropriate  surroundings.  There  is  not  even 
an  embroidered  sofa  cushion,  or  fancy  match  safe,  or 
gorgeous  tidy,  lacking.  And  over  all  this  grandeur,  for 
it  is  quite  grand  for  that  small  farming  hamlet,  reigns 
profound  shadow  and  silence.  Sometimes  on  Sunday 
afternoon  a  gray-haired  and  rather  unhappy-faced  woman 
opens  one  of  the  shutters  just  enough  to  admit  the  ghost 
of  a  sunbeam  and  sits  down  by  the  window  the  solitary 
monarch  of  all  the  fine  things  about  her.  Her  two  boys 
have  grown  up  and  branched  off  into  existence  that  has 
no  "farming"  in  it.  Her  poor  husband  mightily  pre- 
fers the  kitchen  or  the  back  porch  to  the  sacred  splendors 
of  the  "front  room,"  which  he  never  enters  without  a 
mortal  fear  of  doing  some  damage.  So  the  parlor  is  her 
very  own.  It  is  too  nice  for  the  church  sociable,  and  too 
large  to  throw  open  to  "just  the  neighbors,"  and  so  it 
waits  in  shadow  and  silence  like  a  very  orderly  sepulchre 
in  which  the  good  woman  will  one  day  lie  in  state,  all 
unmindful  of  the  neighbors'  feet  upon  her  sacred  carpet. 
And  this  seems  to  be  all  that  her  Best  Room  amounts  to. 

"Nevertheless,  it  is  pleasant,"  exclaims  some  reader, 
"  to  have  one  room  in  the  house  that  is  always  in  order 


rUEKISHIN^G.  73 

and  ready  for  visitors."  So  it  is  !  And  after  fitting  up 
good  bedrooms,  comfortable  and  convenient  kitchens, 
pleasant  dming-rooms,  and  nice  pantries  and  milk-rooms, 
parlors  are  the  very  next  things  to  be  considered  in  our 
farm-homes — unless  some  of  the  money  devoted  to  them 
might  better  be  used  for  books  and  magazines  and  news- 
papers, good  fruits,  shrubberies,  and  such  essential 
things  as  may  be  lackmg. 

Even  if  one  has  but  a  small  room  to  devote  to  this  pur- 
pose it  can  be  made  very  pleasing,  and  has  the  advantage 
of  requiring  less  furniture.  A  fire-place  with  a  mirror 
above  it,  and  a  large  wide-ledged  window  opposite,  make 
the  room  already  half  fitted  up  !  The  ceiling  calcimined 
with  the  palest  blue,  and  the  walls  with  a  tint  two  shades 
deeper,  will  have  the  efEect  to  make  the  room  appear  more 
spacious.  A  border  of  dark  and  light-blue,  or  of  bluish- 
green  and  gold,  should  be  used  on  such  walls.  The 
wood-work  should  be  stained  walnut-color  and  varnished. 
The  most  suitable  carpet  would  be  an  ingrain  in  small 
figures  of  blue  and  gray,  with  perhaps  a  bit  of  yellow  or 
a  bit  of  rose-color  scattered  through  it.  Plain  blue  or 
gray  lambrequins  should  be  used  for  the  windows, 
trimmed  with  fringe  of  the  same  color.  For  the  curtains 
beneath  them,  sheer  Swiss  muslin  is  always  pretty  and 
graceful.  Sometimes  they  are  made  with  a  knife  plait- 
ing or  a  fluted  rufiie  down  the  inner  edges  and  across  the 
bottom  ;  but  they  look  well  when  finished  with  simple 
hems,  and  are  much  easier  laundried. 

The  fireplace  should  be  treated  after  the  manner  de- 
scribed in  a  previous  chapter,  and  will  be  found  the  most 
effective  feature  in  the  room,  especially  if  furnished  with 
a  good  sized  mirror,  which  will  reflect  back  all  the  light 
and  beauty  of  the  apartment,  and,  like  the  cool  color  on 
the  walls  and  ceiling,  enhance  its  size.  Indeed,  I  would 
advise  all  those  tasteful  but  restricted  home-keepers  who 
are  anxious  to  have  really  attractive  parlors,  to  aim  for 
4 


74  FAEM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

simply  these  three  things — a  large,  wide-silled  window,  a 
fire-place,  and  a  generous-sized  mirror  to  place  above  it — 
letting  curtains  and  carpet  and  chairs  come  about  as  they 
can  ;  or  using  for  a  while  plam  shades  for  the  windows, 
and  a  neat  matting  for  the  floor.  Adding  two  or  three 
pictures,  a  few  books,  some  growing  vines,  and  an  easy 
chair  to  such  a  room,  it  is  already  cosy  and  hospitable  in 
its  aspect. 

In  this  room,  as  in  all. others,  one  should  avoid  a  clut- 
tered, crowded  appearance.  Do  not  afflict  the  walls 
with  a  general  outbreak  of  small  pictures,  brackets,  and 
fancy  articles,  as  if  a  notion-store  were  being  fitted  up. 
It  is  better  to  distribute  such  things  throughout  the 
house,  that  each  room  may  have  its  two  or  three  touches 
of  graceful  fancy. 

For  a  table  obtain  something  in  a  round  or  oval  shape. 
It  may  be  of  pine  or  whitewood,  but  must  be  strong  and 
substantial.  Paint  the  legs  black  and  varnish  them. 
The  top  can  be  covered  with  a  blue  or  gray  cloth,  em- 
broidered about  the  edges,  if  one  has  time,  with  silk,  or 
with  zephyr  wool.  Above  the  table  suspend  a  pretty 
hanging  lamp  with  shade. 

Sometimes  old  chairs  can  be  purchased  at  an  auction, 
or  dragged  out  of  a  garret,  and  transformed  into  beauti- 
ful things  with  pamt  and  varnish,  decalcomania-gildings, 
and  stuffed  seats  of  rep  or  cretonne.  These,  with  a  light 
willow  rocker,  or  a  camp-chair,  and  a  handsome  foot- 
stool or  two,  will  comfortably  complete  the  furnishing. 


THE  DAIEY-ROOM   Ai^D   BUTTEfi-MAKING.  75 

CHAPTER  lY. 
THE  DAIRY-ROOM  AND   BUTTER-MAKING. 

This  department  of  the  farm-house,  as  well  as  the 
kitchen  and  the  flower-garden,  should  be  the  pride  and 
joy  of  the  country-woman's  heart. 

It  is  stated  that  the  best  butter  is  now  made  at  the 
large  Creameries  or  Butter-Factories.  It  is  because 
these  establishments  have  every  facility  and  convenience 
for  the  work,  and  maintain  thorough  care  and  attention 
in  the  work.  There  is  no  magic  in  the  making  of  the 
high-priced  delicious  butter,  tasting  of  June's  own  roses 
and  clover  fields,  that  finds  its  way  to  favored  tables. 
The  milk  of  healthy,  well-treated  cows,  is  given  its  best 
chance,  and  is  transformed  by  the  best  methods  into  butter. 
That  is  all.  And  the  farm-homes  must  be  few  where 
these  conditions  and  rules  cannot  be  maintained,  if  there's 
only  a  resolute  will  to  lead  the  way. 

If  butter  is  "made  on  any  considerable  scale,  a  Dairy- 
house  should  be  built,  with  thick  walls  and  deep  eaves, 
over  a  pure  running  brook  or  cool  spring,  or  arranged  so 
that  living  water  a  foot  or  more  in  depth  can  be  carried 
through  it  in  troughs  resting  upon  the  floor,  with  ample 
space  for  walking  between  them.  In  these  troughs  the 
milk  can  be  placed,  in  cans  or  cocks,  in  such  quantit'e? 
that  the  level  of  the  water  will  be  a  little  higher  than 
that  of  the  milk.  Experienced  butter-makers  have  found 
this  to  be  the  most  satisfactory  arrangement  possible  for 
keeping  the  milk  at  a  cool,  even  temperature,  between  the 
time  of  setting  and  skimming. 

Everything  about  this  milk-house  should  be  kept  im- 
maculately sweet  and  clean.  The  building  should  be 
well  ventilated,  but  not  breezy,  and  the  windows  pro- 


76  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AXD   OUT-DOORS. 

vided  with  wire  screens  and  movable  shutters,  by  which 
dust  and  flies  can  be  guarded  against,  and  the  sunlight 
tempered.  All  animal  and  vegetable  odors  should  be  far 
removed,  for,  as  every  one  knows,  milk  is  very  sensitive 
to  the  slightest  taint  or  olfensiveness  in  the  atmosphere. 

Nothing  less  sweet  than  clover  fields  or  orchards  should 
be  near,  and  the  current  of  the  spring  or  brook  should 
be  swift  enough  to  prevent  any  harm  from  standing  water. 
At  one  end  of  the  building  should  be  plenty  of  space  for 
a  table,  a  churn,  and  all  the  utensils  and  appliances  for 
milk  and  for  butter-making.  It  would  be  best  if  this 
were  separated  from  the  main  room  by  a  partition. 

In  places  where  the  advantage  of  water  is  lacking,  the 
next  best  arrangement  for  milk  is  a  clean,  dry,  well- 
ventilated  cellar,  with  screened  windows,  whitewashed 
walls,  a  brick,  stone,  or  cement  floor,  and  easy  steps  lead- 
ing down  to  it.  A  dumb-waiter  might  easily  be  intro- 
duced, and  prove  a  great  saving  of  time  and  muscle  in 
carrying  the  milk  and  the  pails,  pans,  et  cetera,  up 
and  down.  Of  course  a  milk-cellar  should  be  used  for 
its  legitimate  purpose  alone,  fruits,  vegetables,  and  all 
other  cellar  stores  being  kept  in  a  strictly  separate  room. 

Next  to  a  suitable  dairy-room,  the  first  step  in  the 
direction  of  good  butter-making  is  to  give  the  cows  good 
care.  No  one  has  any  moral  right,  and  ought  not  to 
have  any  legal  right,  to  possess  cows  or  any  other  living 
creatures,  unless  he  can  treat  them  well.  We  need  no 
wider  insight  into  the  meanness  of  a  man's  real  nature, 
than  to  see  his  cows  and  horses  and  dogs  wince  at  his 
approach  ! 

A  good  farmer  is  good  to  his  cows ;  and  well-treated 
cows  yield  far  richer  and  more  abundant  milk  than  the 
poor,  half-fed,  worried  animals,  to  whom  milking-time  is 
more  or  less  of  a  terror. 

Cows  should  have  in  summer  abundant  pasturage,  pure 
water,  and  plenty  of  shade,  with  no  nagging  from  dogs 


THE   DAIRY-ROOM  AHD  BTJTTER-MAKIKG.  7Y 

or  from  thoughtless  boys,  who  are  in  haste  to  have  the 
"chores"  over.  In  winter,  it  is  melancholy  to  see  cows 
shrinking  and  crouching  in  a  bleak,  unsheltered  yard, 
with  no  escape  from  a  biting  wind  or  a  sleety  storm,  until 
they  are  put  into  ill-cared  for  stables  at  night,  with  the 
snow  still  clinging  to  their  cold  wet  hides.  It  would  be 
bad  enough  for  a  man  to  wear  a  wet  over-coat  all  day,  but 
he  would  consider  himself  decidedly  ill-treated,  if  he  were 
made  to  sleep  in  it  all  night  in  a  draughty  shed.  Coavs 
enjoy  getting  into  dry  clothes  as  well  as  any  one  ! — so  let 
them  have  a  vigorous  brushing  when  they  have  been  ex- 
posed to  snow,  and  give  them  plenty  of  clean  dry  litter 
for  their  nightly  comfort.  They  should  have  shelter  at 
all  times,  summer  and  winter,  whenever  they  are  inclined 
to  seek  it.  In  winter  their  food  should  be  all  the  well- 
cured  hay  they  will  eat  clean,  plenty  of  water,  and  a  little 
treat  of  roots  or  grain  every  morning.  Do  not  regard  it 
as  silly  to  give  them  caressing  pats  at  milking-time,  and 
let  them  have  names  of  their  own,  and  learn  to  answer 
to  them. 

The  little  good-natured,  affectionate  Jersey,  if  you  can 
afford  to  pay  the  price  asked  for  her,  is  one  of  the  best 
cows  for  supplying  the  table  with  rich  and  delicious  milk. 
Even  children  can  milk  these  mites  of  c^ws,  and  they 
easily  become  great  pets.  It  may  be  thought  by  those 
unfamiliar  with  their  good  qualities  that  their  small  size 
is  against  them,  and  that  some  big  common  cow  will  re- 
turn more  milk  for  a  much  smaller  investment  of  money. 
But  what  the  Jersey  lacks  in  quantity  compared  with  our 
common  cows,  in  their  "new  milch"  time,  she  makes  up 
in  quality  in  a  steady  yield  of  milk  throughout  the  year 
— except  for^a  short  interval  before  calving,  when  she  is 
with  difficulty  dried  off.  They  arrive  at  maturity  early, 
generally  giving  milk  when  two  years  old,  and  often  when 
younger.  They  are  as  hardy  as  the  common  breeds,  and 
more  easily  kept — as  they  have  the  inherited  trait  of 


78  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  Aiq^D   OUT-DOORS. 

being  accustomed  to,  and  content  with,  small  quarters, 
and  will  nibble  patiently  about  wherever  a  little  grass 
grows,  instead  of  hooking  down  bars  or  bounding  over 
fences  in  search  of  possible  better  feed ;  so  that  they 
are  not  only  good  cows  on  general  principles,  but  are 
particularly  good  cows  for  village-families,  or  for  small 
farm-homes  where  pasturage  is  limited. 

For  both  quality  and  quantity  of  milk,  for  large  size, 
for  good  beef,  and  for  easy  keeping,  the  Durham  stands 
high  in  the  scale  of  excellence,  and  has  been  widely  intro- 
duced in  this  country.  Allen's  Cattle  Book  says  they 
have  been  known  to  give  from  thirty-four  to  thirty-six 
quarts  a  day  on  grass  pasture  only — being  equal  to  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  pounds  of  butter  per  week.  Mr.  Allen 
thinks  the  Shorthorn  crosses  with  the  native  stock  prove 
to  be  more  profitable  to  ordinary  farmers  than  the  pure 
breed,  and  certainly  they  are  far  less  expensive. 

But  whatever  the  breed,  rare  or  common,  every  com- 
mon-sense farmer  bears  in  mind  that  there  is  almost  as 
much  in  the  proper  treatment  of  cows  as  in  their  lineage. 

At  milking-time,  m  the  best  dairies,  the  cows'  bags  are 
washed  and  wiped  dry  before  the  milk  is  drawn  ;  and  if 
the  weather  is  rainy,  they  are  placed  in  shelter  and  their 
flanks  and  bags  rubbed  dry,  before  milking,  that  no  hint 
of  what  IS  called  a  "cowey"  taste  may  be  conveyed  to 
the  pails.  Milking  should  be  performed  in  a  cheery  and 
vigorous  manner.  No  one  is  required  to  sing  at  the  work 
unless  he  feels  like  it,  but  I've  no  doubt  the  "singing 
milkmaid,"  who  figures  in  pastoral  poetry,  gets  more 
milk  in  her  pail  than  the  glum  and  silent  farm-hand 
who  plumps  himself  down  with  a  crossly  drawn  out  ''so- 
0-0  !"  and  falls  to  milking  as  if  he  hated  existence  gener- 
ally and  the  dairy  business  in  particular. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  suggest  that  the  pails,  strainers, 
pans,  and  everything  belonging  to  dairy-work  should  be 
perfectly  clean  and  sweet. 


THE  DAIRT-KOOM   A^iq^D   BUTTER-MAKING.  79 

The  milk  should  be  strained  into  pans  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible, and  kept  in  a  cool,  even  temperature  until  the  cream 
has  risen.  The  cream  from  one  milking  churned  by  it- 
self makes  the  very  best  butter,  and  as  this  necessitates 
frequent  churning,  so  much  the  better — the  butter  is 
surer  to  be  sweet  and  perfect  in  flavor.  Twenty-four 
hours  IS  usually  considered  sufficient  for  the  rising  of 
the  cream ;  but  in  a  cool  dairy-room,  if  the  number  of 
cows  is  not  too  large,  the  milk  can  be  allowed  to  stand 
enough  longer  to  be  divided  into  three  churnings  a  week 
without  detriment  to  the  butter  flavor. 

The  *'grain"  of  butter,  the  butter-globule  or  cell,  is 
something  not  considered  by  every  dairy-woman.  If  it  is 
destroyed,  the  butter  is  "  salvey,"  and  of  inferior  value  ; 
if  preserved,  the  butter  is  firm  and  solid.  Too  rapid 
churning  is  apt  to  crush  the  gram.  The  churning  pro- 
cess should  not  be  performed  mside  of  forty  or  fifty 
minutes,  and  the  common  dash-churn  has  been  accepted, 
as  about  the  best  in  use.  A  swmg-churn,  recently  in- 
vented, which  dashes  the  cream  from  one  end  to  the  other, 
and  has  no  troublesome  inside  work,  has  been  received 
with  favor,  and  as  it  is  worked  with  a  crank,  must  be 
much  easier  to  use  than  the  one  first  mentioned. 

As  soon  as  the  butter  has  ^'  come,"  it  should  be  taken 
from  the  churn  with  a  wooden  ladle,  and  washed  in  pure 
cold  water,  using  a  wooden  butter-worker,  and  never 
touching  it  with  the  hands.  A  capital  da  ry-woman  in 
Wisconsin  places  her  freshly  churned  butter  on  an  inclined 
white-oak  plank,  about  two  and  a  half  by  three  feet  in 
size,  and  works  and  salts.it  with  a  long  flat  stick  made 
square  at  the  end.  On  this  surface — the  board  can  be 
a  larger  one  if  needed — the  butter  can  be  spread  out 
and  rinsed  and  salted  m  a  little  time.  An  ounce  of  salt 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  loaf-sugar,  well  mixed,  is 
used  for  every  pound  of  butter.  After  salting,  the  but- 
ter may  be  set  away  for  a  few  hours,  and  then  be  worked 


80  FARM   HOMES,    IIS'-DOOES  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

agaii ,  and  either  made  into  rolls,  or  prints,  or  packed  in 
jars,  in  the  latter  case  being  put  down  very  firmly,  and 
covered  with  a  nice  white  cloth  dipped  in  brine.  When 
the  jar  is  filled,  brine  is  poured  over  it,  and  a  cloth,  cut 
to  exactly  fit,  is  placed  smoothly  on  top. 

In  winter-churning  a  natural  June-like  color  can  be 
given  to  the  sweet,  but  rather  palhd  butter,  by  grating 
the  outside  of  two  or  three  well-cleaned  orange  carrots 
into  a  cup  of  new  milk,  which  strain  through  a  wet  cloth 
into  the  cream  previous  to  churning. 


CHAPTER    V. 
CHEESE. 


"The  English  method  of  preparing  rennets,"  says 
Prof.  Hodgeboom,  *'is  to  steep  them  in  brine  strong 
enough  to  float  an  egg,  putting  six  rennets,  a  sliced  lemon, 
and  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  two  gallons  of  brine.  This 
is  made  six  weeks  before  it  is  to  be  used,  and  it  is  con- 
Bidered  that  age  improves  its  qualities." 

Hydrochloric  acid  is  used  in  Holland,  where  such  fa- 
mous cheese  is  made,  in  place  of  rennet ;  and  the  process 
of  obtaining  the  curd  is  not  only  simplified,  but  more  of 
it  is  obtained  from  the  same  quantity  of  milk. 

A  good  cheese  is  made  by  removing  the  cream  from  a 
night^s  milking  after  it  has  stood  ten  or  twelve  hours, 
and  adding  ^he  skimmed  milk  to  the  fresh  morning's 
milk  after  warming  it  to  new-milk  heat. 

*'  Stilton  "  and  **  Cream  Cheddar  " — very  rich  cheeses 
— are  made  by  adding  the  night's  cream  to  the  morning 
milk,  in  the  proportion  of  one  quart  of  cream  to  ten 


CHEESE.  81 

quarts  of  milk.  A  cloth  strainer  is  placed  in  a  tub,  so 
that  the  bottom,  and  sides  are  covered,  the  warm  milk 
poured  in,  rennet  added  (any  good  recipe  book  will  give 
explicit  directions  as  to  the  proportions  used),  and  after 
the  curd  is  formed  it  is  cut  in  squares,  carefully  lifted  out 
in  the  strainer,  and  placed  in  a  cheese-basket  to  drain. 
After  draining  it  is  placed  m  a  small  hoop  not  more  than 
six  or  seven  inches  in  diameter  and  eight  and  nine  inches 
high,  with  a  "follower"  pierced  with  holes  at  each  end. 
It  is  then  placed  on  a  shelf  and  turned  four  or  five  times 
a  day  with  no  pressure.  It  is  not  salted  in  the  curd,  like 
other  cheese,  but  when  it  becomes  firm  enough  to  handle 
it  is  bandaged  and  salt  rubbed  on  externally  until  it  is 
sufficiently  seasoned. 

The  * '  whole  milk  "  cheese  is  the  kind  most  commonly 
made  is  this  country  in  large  dairies.  On  farms  where 
there  are  but  few  cows,  the  skimmed  night's  milk  added 
to  the  morning  milking  is  more  frequently  used.  t"hese 
cheeses  are  made  in  the  same  way  as  "Stilton,"  except 
that  the  curd  is  salted  and  weights  are  used  in  pressing 
them. 

Little  "Sage"  cheeses  are  very  nice.  A  milking  from 
four  or  five  cows  will  make  one.  Steep  a  large  handful 
of  fresh  sage  leaves  in  a  pint  of  new  milk.  Divide  the 
milk  for  the  cheese  in  two  tubs  equally,  and  into  one  of 
them  strain  the  milk  from  the  sage,  which  will  make  it 
of  a  delicate  green  color.  Add  rennet  to  both  tubs,  and 
when  the  curds  are  ready  for  salting,  mix  the  two  together, 
and  put  to  press  in  a  small  hoop  with  a  weight.  These 
cheeses  have  a  peculiarly  rich  and  pleasant  flavor. 


82  FABM   HOMES,    115^-DOORS   AKD   OUT-DOORS. 

CHAPTER     VI. 
THE  FLOWEK  GARDEN. 

A  bit  of  Flower  Garden  carefully  and  intelligently  culti- 
vated, ** yields"  more  to  its  loving  possessor,  than  any 
other  feature  of  a  country  home  ;  for,  aside  from  its  beau- 
tiful and  fragrant  blossoms,  it  yields  the  tonic  of  sunlight 
and  pure  air,  the  soothing  balm  of  sweet  and  faithful 
companionship,  and  the  inspiration  of  continually  un- 
folding beauty. 

"To  have  a  flower  garden,"  says  an  English  writer, 
'*  is  to  have  many  friends  continually  near."  And  it  is 
indeed  wonderful  and  beautiful,  the  subtle  sympathy 
and  friendliness  that  seems  to  lean  out  of  flowers  toward 
those  who  love  them  and  faithfully  care  for  them. 

As  there  is  nothing  more  melancholy  before  a  farm- 
house door  than  an  ill-kept  yard,  in  which  a  few  plants 
are  pitifully  struggling  for  life  among  besetting  and  tri- 
umphant weeds,  so  there  is  nothing  more  cheerful  and 
fascinating  than  smooth  turf,  a  tidy  walk,  cleanly-grow- 
ing shrubs,  and  luxuriant,  happy-faced  flowers. 

"But  I  have  no  time  for  such  work,"  some  weary 
home-keeper  may  say.  Then  take  time  !  No  other  in- 
vestment of  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  out  of  the  dayUglit 
hours  will  pay  as  well,  unless  it  be  twenty  or  thirty  min- 
utes devoted  to  a  restful  nap  !  Your  housework  is  con- 
fining. Much  of  it  is  hard  and  monotonous,  and  brings 
wrinkles  to  your  forehead,  and  maybe  an  ache  to  your 
spine  ;  and  there's  not  much  joyousness  or  sweetness 
about  an  unrelieved  routine  of  baking  and  dish-washing, 
and  baby-tending  from  Sunday  morning  until  Saturday 
night.  Then  all  tlie  sooner  sliould  you  come  out  in  the 
open  air  and  form  the  acquaintance  of  happy  and  health- 
ful things  that  would  be  glad  to  know  you. 


THE   FLOWER   GARDEK.  83 

It  is  not  necessary  to  begin  on  a  grand  scale.  A  little 
money  for  seeds  and  shrubs,  and  a  little  half-hour  out  of 
the  day  will  go  an  astonishing  ways,  and  amply  repay  the 
expenditure.  A  large  garden,  with  a  great  yariety  of 
flowers  and  shrubs,  would  require  the  constant  attention 
of  at  least  one  pair  of  hands  to  keep  it  in  suitable  condi- 
tion, and  this,  in  most  farm-homes,  cannot  be  afforded. 
It  is  the  little  plat  well-tilled  that  the  average  farm-wife 
has  time  for  ;  and  greater  satisfaction  and  more  splendid 
results  come  from  a  few  well-chosen  plants  thoroughly 
cultivated,  than  from  a  great  mass  of  things  only  half 
looked  after. 

In  the  country,  where  congenial  soils,  manures,  ample 
grounds,  and  the  right  sort  of  exposure  are  always  easily 
secured,  it  is  a  wonder  that  every  farm-house  is  not  re- 
fined and  adorned  in  this  way.  And  yet,  around  thous- 
ands of  country  homes,  flower-cultivation  is  either  ignored 
altogether,  or  confined  to  a  lilac  bush  more  or  less  strag- 
gling, and  maybe  a  tuft  of  striped  grass  or  *' live-forever," 
to  keep  it  company.  This  state  of  things  is  owing,  not 
so  much  to  an  indifference  to  beautiful  thiags,  as  to  the 
feeling  that  there  is  no  time  for  them.  I  am  afraid,  too, 
that  in  some  instances  the  "good  man"  is  answerable 
for  the  lack  of  pretty  flowers  and  neat  walks  about  his 
house,  having  a  mistaken  idea  that  a  flower  garden  is 
nonsense,  and  that  nothing  is  profitable  unless  it  can  be 
weighed  or  measured  and  toted  off  to  market.  This  is 
the  sort  of  man  that  makes  farm-life  abominable,  for  his 
scorn  of  a  few  lily-bulbs  and  roses  does  not  end  with 
them,  but  is  apt  to  be  poured  out  on  other  forms  of  every- 
day beauty  and  comfort.  His  wife's  face  gets  the  solemn 
unhopeful  look  seen  too  often  on  women's  faces,  his  sons 
turn  away  from  farming  in  disgust,  and  his  daughters 
will  be  apt  to  think  twice  before  they  marry  farmers. 

However,  something  can  be  done  with  even  such  a  de- 
pressing curmudgeon  at  the  head  of  the  family.     No 


81  FARM    HOMES,    IN-D00H3   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

doubt  there  may  be  something  of  a  conflict  at  the  first 
outbreak  in  the  direction  of  adornment,  and  if  he  is  par- 
ticularly savage,  several  seasons  of  struggle  may  be  main- 
tained before  he  can  be  brought  to  see  that  flowers  and 
shrubberies  are  ^^profitc^ble,"  that  the  love  and  care  of 
them  lightens  his  wife's  burdens  and  brightens  her  health, 
that  their  aromatic  presence  helps  to  keep  the  air  puie 
and  wholesome,  and  that  the  mere  sight  of  the  roses  and 
lilies  nodding  to  each  other  across  the  broad,  neat  Tvalk, 
adds  ten  per  cent  to  the  value  of  his  home. 

Then  do  not  be  discouraged,  my  home-keeper,  if  along 
with  your  many  cares  and  duties,  an  offish  husband  stands 
m  the  way  of  a  little  flower-culture.  Go  quietly  and  very 
good  naturedly  to  work,  and  the  beautiful  things  wnll 
steal  upon  him  unawares.  Or,  if  you  are  obliged  to  call 
upon  him  for  assistance,  be  firm  and  fearless — and  still 
good  natured — and  in  his  secret  heart  he  will  admire  your 
growing  ambition,  though  he  growls  and  grumbles  with 
every  plunge  of  his  spade,  and  pokes  over  your  papers  of 
long-named  seeds  with  many  a  sarcasm. 

Do  not  make  the  common  mistake  of  new  beginners, 
which  is  to  sow  a  great  variety  of  seeds  without  regard  to 
their  tender  or  hardy  qualities,  and  covering  them  all 
alike  whether  as  large  as  a  Castor  Bean,  or  as  tmy  as  a 
Petunia.  Many  do  this,  and  expect  to  have  a  floral 
Paradise,  when  very  likely  only  a  few  of  the  seeds  will 
show  themselves.  A  good  guide  like  Mr.  Henderson's, 
of  New  York,  or  Mr.  Vick's,  of  Rochester,  and  many 
others,  will  tell  what  every  flower  is,  and  how  and  when 
its  seeds  should  be  planted.  From  them  and  from  my 
own  experience,  I  will  condense  a  few  facts  that  will  be 
helpful  to  the  amateur,  and  save  her  from  a  few  expen- 
sive mistakes. 

A  dozen  varieties  of  good  annuals,  with  a  few  bulbs  and 
shrubs,  are  quite  enough  for  a  handsome  beginning. 

A  suitable  soil  is  the  first  thing  to  be  secured.     A 


THE   FLOWER   GARDEX.  85 

too  clayey,  or  a  too  sandy  soil,  will  need  to  be  made  over 
before  it  will  grow  flowers  successfully.  Equal  quanti- 
ties of  sand,  loam,  manure,  and  well-rotted  tur:-  or  leaves, 
makes  a  soil  in  which  nearly  all  plants  will  thrive. 
Therefore,  if  the  soil  is  heavy,  clayey  loam,  lighten  it 
with  sand  and  leaf -mould.  If  too  sandy  and  light,  mix 
with  it  a  little  leaf  or  turf-mould,  and  peat  or  muck  from 
rich  meadows.  Sand  is  quite  an  indispensable  element — 
making  the  soil  warmer  and  mellower,  and  easier  drained. 
If  a  soil  lacks  sand  one  must  take  pams  to  obtain  enough 
of  it  to  make  the  ground  for  seed-sowing  soft  and  friable. 

The  best  location  for  flower-borders  or  parterres  is 
to  the  southeast — the  sun  from  dawn  to  noon  being  bet- 
ter than  afternoon  light,  which,  through  the  summer,  is 
scorching,  and  withering  rather  then  invigorating  to 
most  plant-life.  Southwestern  light  ranks  next,  while 
the  north  side  of  the  house  is  the-  very  last  place  to  be 
devoted  to  this  purpose,  although  there  are  some  varie- 
ties of  plants,  like  Pansies,  Lily  of  the  Valley,  Ferns,  and 
Myrtle,  that  will  flourish  finely  in  such  a  location. 

The  beds  or  ** borders"  can  be  made  in  endless  variety 
of  shapes,  but  those  simply  made,  and  consequently 
.easier  kept  m  order,  are  a  greater  satisfaction  to  the  eye, 
and  certainly  more  comfortable  to  the  laborer.  These 
fanciful  crescents,  hearts,  stars,  etc.,  require  a  great  deal 
of  care  in  bordering  the  edges  with  something  that  will 
keep  them  well  defined,  and  in  maintaining  smooth,  clean 
walks  among  them.  So  if  one  has  little  time,  and  still 
less  assistance,  it  is  best  io  make  straight  beds,  not  more 
than  two  feet  wide,  on  either  side  of  the  walk  leading  to 
the  gate.  These,  with  "  mounds  "  for  Verbenas,  Petu- 
nias, and  such  plants  as  like  to  trail  about  m  consider- 
able space,  will  be  sufficient  field  for  almost  any  one. 

Have  the  beds  spaded  to  the  depth  of  two  feet,  and  the 
soil  properly  prepared.  The  beds,  when  completed, 
should  not  be  more  than  three  or  four  inches  above  the 


86  FARM  HOMES,    IN^-DOORS   AXD   OUT-DOORS. 

path.  The  path,  or  walk,  must  be  wide  enough  for  two 
people  to  walk  side  by  side  without  brushing  against  the 
flowers.  It  should  be  paved  with  brick,  or  large,  flat 
stones,  or  hardened  with  gi-avel,  or  neatly  planked, 
plank  being  least  desirable,  because  it  so  soon  decays  and 
becomes  unwholesome  from  the  dampness  and  mould  be- 
neath it.  Bricks  set  edgewise  make  a  good  border  for 
the  beds,  or  large,  smooth  pebbles,  or  narrow  planking 
can  be  used.  Narrow  strips  of  turf,  if  kept  in  ^'  living 
green,"  and  neatly  clipped,  make  a  pretty  edge,  but  it 
will  require  care. 

In  February  or  March,  according  to  latitude,  seeds 
should  be  ordered,  and  such  as  require  it  should  be 
started  in  boxes  in  the  house,  so  that  by  the  time  spring 
is  fairly  begun,  and  the  ground  is  warm,  the  young  plants 
will  be  all  ready  for  their  out-door  quarters.  Nearly  all 
annuals,  m  the  Northern  States,  should  be  started  m  the 
house.  This  process  makes  them  several  weeks  earlier, 
when,  if  they  are  sown  late  m  the  open  ground,  the  Sep- 
tember frosts  often  come  to  cut  them  down  just  as  they 
have  unfolded  into  beautiful  bloom. 

HARDY   BULBS   AND   PLANTS. 

From  a  list  of  Hardy  Bulbs  select  a  few  desirable  ones, 
and  plant  them  in  the  borders  six  or  seven  feet  apart, 
which  will  leave  space  for  the  annuals.  These  phmts, 
aside  from  a  yearly  enriching  of  the  soil,  plenty  of  water 
dunng  their  flowering  season,  and  an  occasional  dividing 
of  roots,  need  scarcely  any  attention,  which  fact,  com- 
bined with  the  great  beauty  and  fragrance  of  the  kinds 
here  mentioned,  makes  them  actually  necessary  to  every 
flower-lover's  happiness.  Of  good  Lilies,  especially,  one 
cannot  have  too  many.  A  few  years  ago — when  fresh  from 
Japan,  they  were  sold  only  at  very  high  prices,  but  now 
they  are  offered  at  such  low  figures  that  every  garden 
should  have  one,  at  least,  from  this  glorious  family. 


THE  FLOWER  GARDE2!?-.  87 

Lilium  auraturrif  or  Golden-banded  Lily  of  Japan,  lias 
a  large,  white,  graceful  blossom,  with  a  golden  band 
through  the  center  of  each  petal.  It  sometimes  puts 
forth  twenty  blossoms  from  a  single  stalk,  and  is  delici- 
ously  fragrant.     Flowers  in  July  and  August. 

Lilium  longifiorum  has  trumpet-shaped  flowers  of  clear 
alabaster  white,  from  five  to  eight  inches  in  length,  open- 
ing early  in  July. 

Lilium  speciosum  unfolds  in  August  a  magnificent, 
blossom  of  rich,  rose  color,  spotted  with  crimson  and 
purple,  and  little  shining  points  like  crystalized  dew. 

These  lilies  rapidly  put  forth  little  bulbs  below  the 
surface,  and  should  be  divided  every  year  or  two  and 
planted  separately,  about  three  inches  deep. 

Lilium  candidum,  named  by  the  florists  as  the  **  Com- 
mon Garden  Lil}^,"  and  bearing  a  lower  price  than  the 
above  sorts,  is  not  so  common,  but  it  would  prove  a 
lovely  novelty  in  many  a  garden,  especially  in  the  West. 
It  has  large,  white  flowers,  and  is  very  fragrant,  blossom- 
ing in  June  and  July. 

Plant  these  lily-bulbs  late  in  the  fall,  in  rich,  mellow 
soil,  about  six  inches  below  the  surface.  Do  not  let  any 
manure  touch  the  bulbs,  as  it  might  rot  them,  but  spread 
it  upon  the  top.  As  severe  weather  comes  on  add  a 
slight  covering  of  leaves.  These  lilies  can  also  be  grown 
in  pots  as  window-plants.  I  have  started  candidum 
lilies  in  December,  and  had' glorious  flowers  for  Eastor. 

A  few  bulbs  of  Polyantlius  Narcissus,  cream- white 
and  yellow,  a  fragrant,  early  spring  flower,  will  be  liked. 
Plant  them  under  four  inches  of  soil,  about  the  first  of 
November. 

Every  garden  should  have  a  bed  of  the  Lily  of  the  Val- 
ley— ^they  are  such  delicious  little  flowers  !  The  open 
border  is  not  suitable  for  them,  as  they  prefer  a  shaded, 
moist  comer,  and  in  such  a  place,  and  with  no  other  care 
than  Nature's,  they  will  send  up  their  rich  leaves  and 


88  FARM   HOMES,    IN"-DOORS  Al^D   OUT-DOORS. 

waxen  bells  before  the  summer  flowers  have  even  dreamed 
of  blossoming.  The  bulbs  are  very  small,  and  are  sold, 
cheaply,  by  the  dozen  or  the  hundred. 

Among  P monies,  in  place  of  the  solitary  double  red  sort 
that  used  to  be  the  pride  of  every  well-regulated  country 
garden,  are  now  found  a  hundred  varieties.  Doubtless 
three  or  four  of  the  best  sorts  would  satisfy  the  demands 
of  a  small  garden.  They  are  brilliant,  showy  flowers,  and 
are  often  as  fragrant  as  roses. 

Festiva  ha3  a  carmine  center  shading  out  into  white. 

Virginalis,  clear  white. 

AmabiliSy  rose,  with  white  center. 

Pattsii,  rich,  deep  crimson. 

Blush,  large,  rosy  pink. 

Pceonies  require  three  years  to  become  of  good  size,  but 
after  that  they  increase  rapidly,  and  require  so  much 
space  that  it  is  well  to  cut  away  some  of  their  tubers,  or 
*'  toes,"  every  spring,  and  present  them  to  some  one  who 
is  not  so  fortunate  as  to  possess  them. 

Hollyhochs  are  among  the  dear  old  standard  flowers 
that  should  never  be  lost  sight  of.  There  are  rich  double 
sorts  in  all  colors,  and  in  view  of  their  tall,  sentinel  air, 
they  might  be  planted  at  either  side  of  the  gate,  or  in 
clumps  in  the  grass  plat.  For  three  months  and  more 
they  are  in  constant  flower.  If  grown  from  seed  they 
will  not  flower  until  the  sec0d  year. 

Larkspur  is  a  desirable  flower,  because  of  its  lovely 
shades  of  blue  and  its  brave  habit  of  blossoming  early  and 
late. 

Two  or  three  sorts  of  Perennial  Phlox  should  be  chosen; 
and  they  will  look  best  if  planted  in  a  cluster  on  the 
sward  or  against  the  leafy  verdure  of  a  hedge.  White 
Lady  and  Chloris,  the  latter  a  vivid  red,  might  be 
planted  together. 

Lychnis  is  a  brilliant  and  showy  perennial,  growing 


THE   FLOWER   GARDEN?-.  89 

two  feet  in  hight,  and  is  in  two  yarieties,  scarlet  and 
deep  orange. 

DianthuSf^ov  Pinks,  should  be  generously  chosen  from. 
Every  one  loves  ''  pinks,"  from  grandmother  to  the  baby. 
There  are  many  hardy  sorts  that  are  almost  as  delicious 
as  the  rich,  but  tender,  Carnation.  Alba,  a  double  white, 
and  Laciniatus,  a  fine  fringed  variety  in  various  colors, 
are  both  bright  and  fragrant  additions  to  the  flower- 
border. 

Perennial  Flax,  a  lovely  blue  flower,  and  Dicentra,  the 
graceful  Bleeding  Hsart,  should  not  be  forgotten. 

From  the  foregoing  list  of  bulbs  and  plants  enough 
can  be  selected,  with  a  few  annuals,  to  plentifully  sup- 
ply a  smiill  garden.  And  remember  it  is  the  small  gar- 
den, well  cared  for,  that  we  have  in  view. 

And  now  the  seeds  of  a  few  choic§,  rich  Annuals  are 
wanted  for  the  ample  space  between  the  Perennials. 
Most  beginners  in  flower-garden  sow  ten  times  the  quan- 
tity of  seed  that  is  needed.  By  studying  the  catalogues 
of  any  good  florist,  choosing  a  few  best  sorts,  and  sowing 
the  seeds  carefully  and  properly,  according  to  their  needs, 
a  greit  deal  of  disappointment  can  be  avoided.  Three 
or  four  neighbors  should  club  together  when  sending  for 
seeds,  and  thus  lessen  the  expense  for  all.  Nearly  every 
package  contains  seed  enough  to  supply  three  gardens 
with  whatever  variety  it  contains,  if  only  judiciously 
planted. 

A  quantity  of  suitable  boil  should  be  placed  in  the  cel- 
lar in  the  fall,  that  it  may  be  in  readiness  for  starting 
the  seeds  in  boxes  as  early  as  the  first  of  March. 

Transplanting,  with  the  exception  of  Pansies  and  very 
hardy  annuals,  should  not  be  attempted  until  all  danger 
of  spring  frost  is  over  and  the  ground  is  warm  and  mel- 
low. Cool,  cloudy  weather  should  be  chosen  for  the 
work,  and  the  young  plants  must  be  watered  morning 
and  evening,  unless  the  rain  comes  to  one's  assistance. 


90  FAEM  HOMES,    II^- DOORS  AND  0UT-D00B8. 

AN'N'UALS. 

Asters. — A  package  of  mixed  seeds,  or  T\4iat  is  better, 
if  dimes  are  not  to  be  counted,  half  a  dozen  separate 
sorts  of  this  beautiful  summer  and  autumn  flower,  should 
be  among  the  first  selected.  They  are  as  brave  as  tliey 
■  are  beautiful,  and  will  cheer  the  eye  with  their  bright 
blossoms  long  after  *'the  melancholy  days  have  come," 
if  sheltered  from  the  frosty  nights  under  a  light  blanket 
or  shawl.  The  smaller  plants  can  also  be  taken  up  in 
pots  and  boxes,  and  will  continue  to  bloom  in  dining- 
room  and  parlor  windows  for  several  weeks.  The  dwarf 
sorts  are  especially  pretty  for  potting. 

Antirrhinum^  or  Snap-Dragon,  is  a  rich  and  interest- 
ing flower  ia  nearly  all  colors.  The  seeds  are  so  minute 
that  one  package  will  supply  half  a  dozen  gardens,  and 
they  should  be  covered  very  slightly  with  soil. 

Balsams  are  exquisite  for  flat  bouquets,  often  equal- 
ling roses  in  beauty.  These  might  be  started  in  collar- 
boxes,  which,  at  transplanting  time,  can  be  set  directly  in- 
to the  ground  (after  removing  the  bottoms)  without  dis- 
turbing the  roots.     They  should  be  given  plenty  of  room. 

Coreopsis  and  the  Double  Buttercup  should  be  given  a 
corner,  for  as  some  one  has  remarked,  no  bouquet  is 
quite  complete  without  a  '*  drop  of  sunlight "  in  the  form 
of  a  yellow  flower. 

Candytuft  comes  in  purple,  white,  and  crimson,  and 
this  with  Sweet  Alyssum  and  Siveet  Peas  can  be  sown  in 
the  garden  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground.  The 
two  first  are  pretty  for  edging.  The  Peas  should  be 
planted  under  four  inches  of  soil,  and  if  planted  in  cir- 
cles, one  within  the  other,  can  be  easily  supported  by 
strings  tied  to  a  central  pole.  Painted  Lady,  Scarlet  In- 
vincible, and  Crown  Princess  are  among  the  prettiest 
sorts  of  Sweet  Peas. 

Cypress  Vine,  or  Ipomoea  quamoclit,  as  the  florists  call  it. 


THE   FLOWEB   GARDEIT.  91 

is  pretty  for  small  trellises,  in  two  varieties,  scarlet  and 
white.  Every  one  should  order  a  package  of  the  large 
flowering  Ipomoea  in  mixed  colors.  It  resembles  the 
Morning  Glorj^,  but  is  larger,  and  of  rich  and  splendid 
colors.  Seeds  should  be  started  in  th3  house.  They  are 
great  climbers,  and  think  nothing  of  going  up  to  chamber 
windows  and  clambering  about  the  eaves.  Do  not  forget 
*'  Ipomoea — finest  mixed,"  in  making  out  the  list  of  seeds. 

Lavender  is  a  sweet  and  gentle  flower  that  should  al- 
ways be  given  a  generous  bed  in  our  gardens.  A  few 
sprigs  of  it  in  a  vase  will  fill  a  room  with  gT-ateful  aroma, 
and  when  cut  and  dried,  and  placed  in  thin  muslin  bags, 
it  will  pleasantly  perfume  drawers  and  boxes  of  bed-linen, 
clothing,  etc. 

Mignonette  is  a  plain  little  flower,  but  very  popular  be- 
cause of  its  wild  ''woodsy"  fragrance  and  continual 
bloom.  It  is  almost  indispensable  for  bouquets,  and,  like 
the  Aster,  will  bloom  far  into  the  fall,  with  a  little  pro- 
tection. To  secure  early  growth  the  seeds  can  be  started 
in  boxes  and  very  carefully  transplanted,  as  the  roots 
dislike  disturbance. 

Nasturtiums. — These  gay,  free-flowering,  old-fashioned 
flowers  come  out  in  all  shades,  from  cream-color  to  deep 
velvety  maroon.  They  are  excellent  for  vases,  hanging- 
baskets,  rockeries,  and  make  a  very  bright  and  luxuriant 
window-plant,  if  given  good  soil  and  plenty  of  sunlight. 
The  dwarf  sorts  are  best  for  windows  and  baskets,  and 
the  large  climbing  varieties  for  vases  and  rockeries. 

Pansies. — A  group  of  large,  rich-hued  Pansies  is  a  joy ! 
They  require  some  care  in  sowing,  and  a  good  deal  of 
rich-feeding,  but  they  make  full  returns.  Sow,  in  March, 
a  packet  of  fine  mixed  sorts  in  rich,  pulverized  soil,  sift- 
ing but  a  slight  covering  over  them,  placing  panes  of 
glass  over  the  pots  or  boxes,  and  sprinkling  the  earth 
carefully  every  day  with  warm  water.  A  lady,  whose 
Pansies  are  particularly  glorious,  says  she  has  the  best 


92  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  Al^D  OUT-DOORS. 

success  in  obtaining  seedlings  by  sowing  the  seeds  in 
boxes,  merely  pressing  them  into  the  dirt  with  the  palm 
of  her  hand,  sprinkling  slightly,  and  covering  them 
lightly  with  a  white  cloth  dipped  in  warm  water.  She 
thinks  the  seeds  are  often  baked  to  death  under  glass, 
but  under  this  moist  white  cloth  they  are  all  sure  to  ger- 
minate. After  the  first  tiny  leaves  have  appeared,  she 
removes  the  cloth  and  gives  them  direct  sunlight  through 
the  morning  hours,  but  takes  care  that  it  is  tempered  by 
fresh  air,  so  as  not  to  be  too  hot  for  them.  When  a  few 
leaves  have  appeared,  or  after  three  or  four  weeks,  they 
can  be  transplanted  to  the  beds  where  they  are  to  grow, 
if  the  ground  is  not  too  wet  and  cold.  They  will  grow 
best  when  not  exposed  to  afternoon  sunlight.  Soap-suds 
or  liquid  manures  applied  to  the  roots  every  two  weeks 
will  increase  their  luxuriance,  and  their  various  and  beau- 
tiful colors  will  be  a  continual  pleasure  from  June  to 
November. 

Petunias, — White,  white  striped  with  carmine,  and  the 
delicate  little  white-throated  crimson  sort,  are  good  kinds 
to  select.  They  will  have  the  best  effect  if  transplanted 
to  beds  or  mounds  by  themselves.  Their  constant  bloom 
and  delicate  fragrance  should  never  be  missed  from  a 
country  home.  The  small  crimson,  and  the  striped  and 
blotched  varieties,  can  be  grown  in  windows,  and  will 
gladden  many  a  dark  winter  day,  if  given  a  place  between 
pots  of  Mignonette  and  Sweet  Alyssum.  Seeds  should 
be  treated  the  same  as  Pansies. 

Salvia,  or  Flowering  Sage,  in  the  scarlet,  white,  and 
blue  varieties,  is  a  very  rich  and  beautiful  flower,  either 
for  the  house  or  garden..  They  are  rather  tender,  and 
must  not  be  transplanted  until  all  danger  of  frost  is  over. 
Small  plants  can  be  placed  in  pots  in  the  fall,  cut  down 
a  little,  and  kept  for  winter  flowering.  The  roots  of 
Salvia  Patens,  a  deep  rich  blue  sort,  can  be  kept  through 
the  winter  like  other  tubers. 


THE  FLOWEE   GARDEK.  93 

Verbenas. — From  hundreds  of  varieties  of  this  splen- 
did, free-flowering  annual,  half  a  dozen  well  chosen  sorts 
will  result  in  a  fine  display.  For  a  small  garden  I 
would  choose  Snow  Storm,  Gazelle,  Black  Bedder,  lona, 
Cupid,  and  Conspicua, — or  else  a  package  of  the  best 
mixed  sorts.  The  seeds  must  be  soaked  in  warm  water 
twenty-four  hours  before  planting.  A  shelf  behind 
a  kitchen  stove,  or  a  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove — if 
not  too  hot,  is  a  good  situation  for  the  box  or  pots  in 
which  they  are  planted,  as  they  need  bottom-heat  in  order 
to  germinate  well.  Sow  m  circles,  or  in  regular  rows,  so 
as  to  distinguish  them  from  the  possible  weeds  which  may 
spring  up.  When  the  Verbenas  appear,  keep  them  in  a 
sunny  window,  being  careful  that  the  soil  does  not  be- 
come too  dry,  and  when  they  show  the  fourth  leaf,  trans- 
plant into  little  pots  or  boxes,  where  they  can  flourish 
until  the  spring  is  sufficiently  established  to  place  them  m 
their  garden  beds.  Slip  plant  and  soil  from  the  box  with- 
out disturbing  the  roots,  if  possible,  water  plentifully, 
and  shield  from  the  hot  sun  for  two  or  three  days.  Cut- 
tings, or  "slips"  can  be  taken  from  the  best  sorts  in 
August  or  September,  and  potted  for  winter  culture. 

SUMMER   BULBS. 

Tuderose. — This  waxen-petaled,  richly-perfumed  flower 
should  be  remembered  when  ordering  summer-flowering 
bulbs.  It  is  rarely  seen  in  country  gardens — a  great  sin 
of  omission,  as  all  will  say  who  have  enjoyed  its  lovely 
blossoms,  of  which  it  puts  forth  twenty-five  or  thirty,  and 
sometimes  more,  to  the  single  stalk.  Bulbs  must  be 
started  in  pots  as  early  as  February  or  March,  and  the 
grower  must  not  be  discouraged  if  they  take  their  own 
leisurely  time  for  sending  up  their  shoots.  Iij  August 
and  September  one  will  be  well  repaid  for  patient  waitimr. 
The  original  bulb  blooms  only  once,  but  creates  a  family 


94  FAKM  HOMES,    IIS^-DOOKS  AKD   OUT-DOOES. 

of  little  bulbs,  which  must  be  taken  up  after  the  tops 
have  died  down  in  the  fall,  and  kept  through  the  winter 
in  a  dry  place  where  they  will  not  freeze,  and  planted  out 
separately  in  the  spring.  These  will  not  flower  the  first 
year,  but  will  grow  into  fine  mature  bulbs,  which  must 
be  taken  up  in  the  fall,  and  potted  very  early  in  the  spring, 
like  the  one  first  purchased. 

Jacobean  Lily,  or  Amaryllis,  is  also  rarely  seen  in  farm 
gardens.  It  is  a  magnificent  and  graceful  flower,  of  rich 
violet-crimson  color.  It  can  be  started  in  pots,  like  the 
Tuberose,  and  the  bulbs  treated  like  Dahlias,  Gladiolus, 
and  the  like. 

Tritoma  Uvaria,  commonly  called  "Red-hot  Poker," 
because  of  its  spikes  of  flame-colored  blossoms,  would 
also  be  a  brilliant  novelty  to  many.  It  grows  to  the  hight 
of  four  feet  or  more,  and  makes  a  splendid  appearance. 
Start  in  boxes  early  in  March,  and,  in  severe  climates, 
keep  the  roots  in  sand  through  the  winter. 

Dahlias. — These  queenly  flowers  are  familiar  to  all. 
There  seems  no  end  to  their  variety  of  color.  The  pom- 
pone  or  dwarf  sorts  are  exceedingly  pretty  for  bouquets. 
The  roots  must  be  taken  up  before  the  ground  freezes, 
well  dried,  but  not  broken  apart,  and  packed  away  for  the 
winter  in  thoroughly  dry  sand.  If  it  is  damp,  they  will 
rot.  In  the  spring,  growers  generally  start  whole  clusters 
together,  and  divide  them  after  the  sprouts  appear — leav- 
ing two  or  three  to  each  tuber.  While  growing  they  must 
be  tied  to  stakes  from  time  to  time,  as  they  are  inclined 
to  break  down  before  a  brisk  wind.  Enrich  the  soil  about 
them,  and  be  careful  to  give  water  when  needed.  By 
covering  them  when  frost  threatens,  they  will  bloom  late 
into  the  fall. 

Gladiolus, — Solomon,  in  all  his  glory,  could  hardly 
have  boasted  the  brilliant  hues  that  appear  in  these  flowers. 
The  bulbs  can  be  planted  in  the  garden,  about  the  last  of 
April,  and  will  have  a  splendid  appearance  if  planted  to- 


THE   FLOWER  GAEDEl?-.  95 

gether  in  groups.  Do  not  manure  the  soil — the  usual 
mixture  of  loam,  sand,  and  leaf-mould,  suits  them  best. 
"Unnamed"  sorts  are  sold  by  florists  at  a  low  figure,  and 
they  often  prove  to  be  quite  as  fine  as  the  named  and 
more  expensive  varieties.  When  the  tops  die  down  in 
the  fall,  dig  and  dry  the  bulbs,  wrap  them  in  paper,  and 
keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar. 

If  from  the  foregoing  list  of  seeds  and  bulbs,  one  can 
afford  to  choose  but  a  limited  variety,  be  sure  to  secure, 
at  least,  these  treasures  :  Candid um  and  Auratum  Lilies, 
Tuberoses,  Dwarf  Dahlias,  one  package  of  Aster  seeds, 
one  package  of  best  mixed  Pansies,  one  package  of  best 
mixed  Petunias,  one  package  of  best  mixed  Verbenas,  one 
package  of  Lavender,  one  package  of  Sweet  Alyssum,  one 
package  of  Sweet  Peas,  one  package  of  Mignonette. 

HARDY  SHRUBS. 

Aside  from  their  intrinsic  worth,  shrubs  are  very  de- 
sirable, because  of  the  little  care  and  trouble  they  impose. 
They  are  like  generous  friends,  that  give  everything,  and 
ask  very  little  in  return ;  and  still,  like  these  same 
friends,  they  appreciate  a  bit  of  devotion  now  and  then. 

The  sweet,  time-honored  Syringas  and  Lilacs,  I  place 
first  m  the  list.  Once  planted  in  good  soil,  all  they  re- 
quire is  a  little  enriching  and  pruning  once  a  year.  They, 
and  other  tall  shrubs,  should  be  planted  in  well-chosen 
spots,  where  they  will  not  obstruct  pleasant  views  ;  and 
if  trimmed  in  tree-shapes,  and  the  soil  about  them  kept 
mellow,  some  bright  annuals  like  Zinnias,  Nasturtiums, 
or  Petunias,  will  look  prettily  growing  around  them. 
Persian  Lilacs,  and  Snowballs  present  a  pleasing  contrast, 
when  allowed  to  grow  in  a  group  together. 

No  garden  should  lack  its  Roses.  There  are  many 
hardy  sorts,  and  every  one  can  afford  two  or  three  of 
them.     In  return  for  their  royal  blossoms,  let  them  have 


96  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND  OUT-DOORS. 

the  rich  soil,  and  the  annual  cutting  away  of  old  wood 
that  they  need.  Bewildering  lists  of  names  appear  in  the 
catalogues,  but  if  I  were  beginning  a  garden  on  a  limited 
scale,  I  would  write  to  some  standard  florist,  and  ask  him 
to  ^send  me  three  good  hardy  Roses — a  pure  white,  a  rich 
crimson,  and  a  creamy  blush — with,  maybe,  the  "  Gem 
of  the  Prairies,"  for  a  climber,  sending,  of  course,  the 
catalogue  price  for  hardy  roses,  and  I  should  be  very  cer- 
tain to  be  suited. 

Roses  should  have  good  loam,  with  a  sprinkling  of 
sand,  and  a  generous  admixture  of  rotted  manure.  Next 
to  the  rich  soil,  the  pruning  knife  is  necessary.  Do  not 
hesitate  to  use  it,  for  the  Roses  like  it,  and  quickly  send 
out  their  new  shoots  and  best  blooms  to  tell  you  so. 
Shoots  two  years  old  should  be  cut  away,  and  the  one 
year  growths  pruned  down  a  little,  every  fall.  K  any 
slugs,  lice,  or  other  enemies  appear  in  the  spring  or  early 
summer,  make  a  strong  suds  of  soft  soap  and  rain  water, 
and  give  the  bushes  a  thorough  bath,  after  which  rinse 
with  clear  water.  Be  careful  to  see  that  the  branches 
and  the  underside  of  the  leaves  get  the  benefit  of  the 
suds.  In  blossom-time,  gather  the  Roses  with  a  lavish 
hand.  Glorify  the  house  with  them,  and  send  them  to 
friends  and  neighbors,  especially  if  there  are  any  sick 
ones  among  them,  for  their  fresh  summery  breath  is  par- 
ticularly grateful  to  weary  senses. 

Oak-Leaved  Hydrangea  is  a  showy  and  interesting 
shrub,  and  is  covered  in  midsummer  with  very  large 
clusters  of  white  flowers. 

A  Scarlet-floioered  Japan  Quince,  and  one  or  two  vari- 
eties of  SpircBtty  with  their  feathery  sprays  of  pink  and 
white  blossoms,  should  be  afforded  if  possible. 

The  Cannay  or  "Indian  Shot,"  and  Ricinus,  or  Castor 
Bean,  both  raised  from  seed,  make  a  rich  and  striking 
appearance  as  summer  shrubs.  The  seeds  of  the  Canna 
must  be  soaked  in  hot  water  for  a  while  before  planting. 


TEE   FLOWER   GARDEIT.  97 

These  plants  can  also  be  grown  in  large  boxes,  or  vases, 
on  the  piazza,  or  elsewhere.  They  need  rich  soil  and 
plenty  of  water. 

CLIMBIis'G   VINES. 

Beautiful  -are  the  ways  of  the  Vine,  whether  it  be  tlie 
bold  and  vigorous  Virginia  Creeper,  that  finds  foothold 
on  the  most  forbidding  wall,  and  grows  the  stronger  and 
greater  for  the  winds  and  storms  that  beat  upon  it,  or 
the  light  and  delicate  Smilax,  weaving  its  emerald-green 
tracery  across  the  window  panes,  or  around  the  portraits 
of  beloved  friends. 

The  forests  are  full  of  beautiful  vines.  Convolvulus, 
Bitter  Sweet,  Scarlet,  and  Yellow  Honeysuckle,  Virgin's 
Bower,  Grape,  and  other  graceful  wild  cHmbers,  are 
within  the  reach  of  almost  every  country  home,  and 
should  be  sought  after  and  wooed  to  grow  around  porches, 
and  over  gateways,  and  up  on  the  roofs  of  unlovely  sheds. 

The  Hop  is  a  wholesome,  thrifty  vine,  and  if  none  other 
could  be  had,  I  would  gladly  and  gratefully  tram  it  over 
verandas,  and  across  kitchen  and  pantry  windows,  and 
rejoice  in  its  cool  shade  and  clean  fragrance.  But  who- 
ever has  the  good  luck  to  live  near  a  bit  of  wild  wood- 
land, can  be  generally  sure  of  finding  many  things  that 
will  add  grace  and  beauty  to  the  plainest  little  home. 

Then  there  are  the  annual  climbers — whole  worlds  of 
verdure  and  bloom,  springing  from  a  few  little  seeds  that 
are  obtained  almost  for  the  asking  !  Morning  Glories, 
Scarlet  Runners,  Ipomoeas,  Fancy  Gourds,  Cobea  Scan- 
dens,  Wild  Cucumbers — all  rapid  and  vigorous  growers, 
that,  by  the  time  of  dog-days  weave  grateful  screens  for 
porches  and  windows  that  face  the  glaring  afternoon 
skies. 

Among  climbers  sold  by  florists  are,  Japan  Honey- 
suckle, hardy,  fragi-ant,  and  possessed  of  beautiful  glossy 
5 


98  FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

leaves,  the  different  varieties  of  Clematis,  the  Chinese 
Wistaria  of  rapid  growth  and  lovely  blue  flowers,  the 
Trumpet  Creeper,  and  young  plants  of  Cobea  Scan  dens. 
The  latter  vine,  if  housed  in  the  fall,  makes  a  pretty 
climber  for  the  windows,  but  it  is  too  tender  to  survive 
even  a  slight  frost,  when  left  out  of  doors. 


CHAPTER    VII. 
WINDOW  PLANTS. 


South  and  east  windows  are  the  only  ones  in  which 
plants  will  do  their  best ;  and  I  would  not  advise  farm- 
wives  in  extreme  Northern  States  to  keep  many  varieties 
unless  they  have  a  place  suitably  sunny  and  warm.  A 
few  good  Geraniums  and  Pelargoniums,  with  Fuchsias, 
Heliotropes,  and  Feverfews,  can  be  grown  with  very  lit- 
tle trouble.  Insects  seldom  trouble  them,  and  they  are 
profuse  bloomers  ;  and  if  the  "  window  garden  "  is  con- 
fined to  a  dozen  pots,  it  is  not  much  trouble  to  remove 
them  to  a  cellar  or  a  frost-proof  cupboard  on  severe 
nights,  and  bring  them  out  into  the  sunlight  again  in  the 
mornmg.  Their  cheerful  verdure  and  brilliant  blossoms 
richly  reward  such  painstaking. 

GERANIUMS. 

The  Dwarf  Geraniums  are  pretty  for  ordinary  win- 
dows, and  the  scarlet  and  the  white  Tom  Thumbs  are 
lovely  when  grown  in  a  pot  together.  Christabel  is  a 
rosy  pink,  and  Little  Dear  is  rose  color  and  white.  There 
is  also  a  dwarf  salmon  that  is  worth  having.  These  are 
all  single. 


WINDOW-PLANTS.  99 

Little  Jewel  is  a  double  Dwarf  Geranium,  with  blos- 
soms of  rich  cardinal  red.  The  Ghost  is  a  fine  double 
white,  also  dwarf. 

A  Madam  Pollock  will  generally  flourish  in  an  or- 
dinary room,  if  kept  in  brilliant  light  and  close  to  the 
window  pane.     Its  foliage  is  richly  variegated. 

It  is  hard  to  deny  one's  self  a  Sweet-scented  Geranium, 
and  Shrubland  Pet  is  a  good  choice. 

The  Pelargoniums,  or  Show .  Geraniums,  should  be 
represented  if  one  has  plenty  of  sunlight  for  them. 
There  are  so  many  splendid  varieties  it  is  difficult  to 
make  a  choice,  but  the  Emperor  would  be  mine,  if  I 
could  have  but  one. 

"Daisy  Eyebright,"  the  brain-bright  woman  to  whom 
I  have  been  indebted  for  many  a  valuable  hint  in  my  care 
of  plants,  says  that  *^It  is  no  more  trouble  to  grow  a 
Geranium  than  a  Cabbage  ! "  I  hope  every  reader  of 
these  suggestions,  who  has  never  tried  house-plant  cul- 
ture, will  obtain  a  few  varieties  and  see  how  they  will 
glorify  her  room  on  some  howling  winter  day  when  aU 
outside  looks  dreary  and  hopeless. 

Cuttings  of  Geraniums,  Pelargoniums,  Fuchsias,  and 
Heliotropes  can  be  ordered  in  July  from  florists  any- 
where within  two  or  three  hundred  miles,  for  little  more 
than  the  cost  of  packing  and  postage  ;  and  by  early  win- 
ter, if  they  have  had  good  treatment,  they  will  be  ready 
to  blossom.  If  young,  well-rooted  plants  can  be  pur- 
chased, in  place  of  the  cuttings,  so  much  the  better,  of 
course.  Bear  in  mind  that  quite  a  number  of  pretty 
window-plants,  like  the  Petunia,  Mignonette,  Verbena, 
and  Sweet  Alyssum,  can  be  raised  from  seeds. 

If  cuttings  are  ordered,  attend  to  them  as  soon  as  they 
arrive,  as  they  will  be  more  or  less  wilted.  I  have  re- 
ceived them,  however,  after  a  journey  of  more  than  two 
hundred  miles,  in  as  fresh  condition  as  if  they  had 
merely   been  brought  from  a  neighboring  greenhouse, 


100         PAEM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AKD  OUT-DOORS. 

owing  to  the  care  with  which  they  were  packed.  Make 
a  place  in  readiness  for  them  by  taking  a  shallow  box,  or 
large  flat  pan,  filling  it  half  full  of  mixed  loam  and  leaf- 
mould,  or  any  good  garden  soil,  sprinkling  a  layer  of 
sand  on  top  and  making  it  well  wet.  Plant  the  cuttings 
two  or  three  inches  apart  and  place  the  box,  or  pan,  in  a 
north  window,  keeping  the  sand  moist,  but  not  sopping 
wet.  When  there  are  signs  of  new  leaves  starting,  they 
can  be  transplanted  into  pots  of  suitable  earth,  using 
great  care  not  to  injure  the  just-formed  roots,  and  keep- 
ing them  out  of  the  direct  sunlight  for  two  days. 

Through  warm  weather  pot-plants  should  be  watered 
morning  and  night,  and  always  with  water  as  warm  as 
the  air ;  it  has  been  proved  beneficial  when  used  even 
warmer.  As  cool  weather  advances  they  need  less  water. 
It  is  one  of  the  serious  mistakes  of  the  inexperienced  to 
drown  plants  to  death  in  winter-time.  Many  ladies  who 
are  quite  successful  as  window-gardeners,  pour  hot  water 
into  the  saucers,  and  sometimes  directly  into  the  pots, 
where  the  depth  of  top-soil  is  sufficient  to  temper  it  be- 
fore it  reaches  the  roots.  Yet  such  a  practice  requires 
care  and  a  knowledge  of  what  plants  will  and  won't  bear. 
Water  at  blood-heat,  however,  is  always  safe,  but  should 
be  given  only  when  the  soil  is  dry  and  requires  it, 
aquatic  plants  being  the  exception  to  this  rule.  By  stir- 
ring up  the  soil  with  a  wooden  fork,  or  any  other  handy 
little  implement,  one  can  easily  see  whether  the  plant  is 
in  need  of  water. 

FUCHSIAS. 

The  best  winter-blooming  sorts  are  Speciosa  and  Serra- 
tifolia.  They  should  be  started  early  in  the  spring, 
if  cuttings  are  used,  and  potted  into  particularly  rich 
soil.  Crown-of-Jewels  is  pretty  all  the  year  round,  be- 
cause of  its  brightly-tinted  foliage.     Sometimes  Fuchsias 


WI2S-D0W-PLANTS.  101 

are  attacked,  like  the  rose,  by  a  miserable  little  beast  of 
a  red  spider  no  larger  than  the  dust  of  Cayenne  pepper. 
He  flourishes  on  the  under  side  of  the  leaf,  and  if  not 
exterminated  will  soon  cause  the  foliage  to  curl  up  and 
drop  oS,  greatly  to  the  wonder  of  those  who  do  not 
understand  the  trouble.  It  is  not  often  that  the  spider 
comes  to  this  plant,  but,  as  an  ounce  of  prevention  is 
easier  than  a  pound  of  cure,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  wash 
Fuchsias  every  Monday  in  warm,  but  not  too  warm, 
laundry  suds,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  pure  water. 

HELIOTROPES. 

These  grow  readily  from  cuttings,  but  a  plant  must  be 
a  year  or  two  old  before  much  can  be  expected  of  it ;  so 
it  is  better  to  purchase  those  already  rooted  or  partly 
grown.  Its  blossoms  have  a  sweet,  balsamic,  honeyed 
fragrance,  like  the  breath  wafted  from  the  pines  on  a 
sultry  summer  day.  It  is  a  great  lover  of  sunlight.  Its 
leaves  are  always  clean  and  free  from  insects  of  all  sorts, 
and  with  decent  care  it  grows  very  fast.  It  can  be 
pruned  and  trimmed  into  tree-shape,  or  it  will  conform 
gracefully  to  a  trellis.  The  blossoms  range  in  all  the 
shades  from  deep  violet  to  pale  lavender.  Good-sized 
plants  can  be  purchased  at  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five 
cents,  and  at  still  cheaper  rates  where  several  persons 
club  together  and  so  send  larger  orders. 

FOLIAGE   PLANTS. 

These  are  cultivated  for  their  rich  and  beautifully 
marked  leaves,  their  blossoms  being  generally  insignifi- 
cant. Among  the  Goleiis,  the  Golden  Beauty,  crim- 
son and  yellow,  and  Her  Majesty,  bronze  and  green, 
are  perhaps  the  finest.  Give  them  a  rich,  warm  soil  to 
grow  in,  with  plenty  of  root  room,  plenty  of  sunlight, 
and  all  the  water  they  need.     They  grow  easily  and  rap- 


102         FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOBa 

idly  from  cuttings.  They  are  quite  tender,  and  must  be 
protected  from  chills.  By  pinching  off  the  top  shoots 
of  young  plants  a  denser  growth  can  be  obtained. 

Some  varieties  of  Begonia  are  very  rich  and  elegant  in 
their  leafage.     Kex  and  Mrs.  Alger  are  fine  sorts. 

The  Elegante,  a  variegated  ivy-leafed  Geranium,  is 
highly  ornamental,  whether  trailing  about  a  window  or 
drooping  from  a  hanging  basket.  A  cutting  of  it  taken 
in  August  will  be  of  good  size  by  December. 

MON^THLY    ROSES. 

There  are  many  varieties  to  choose  from,  but  one  or 
two  will  be  enough  in  a  small  collection.  They  require 
more  attention  than  almost  any  other  house-plant,  and 
must  have  very  rich  soil  and  plenty  of  sunlight.  Fre- 
quent baths  are  necessary,  for  they  invite  various  pests, 
the  little  red  spider  being  particularly  fond  of  them. 
Roses  will  repay  good  care,  however.  I  have  found  the 
pink  Hermosa  and  the  crimson  Agrippina  good  sorts 
for  window-culture.  It  is  best  to  buy  good-sized  roses, 
grown  on.  their  own  roots.  They  are  rather  expensive, 
but  are  reliable,  and  in  a  year  or  two  will  be  grown 
into  fine  trees.  Roses  will  grow  from  cuttings,  but  the 
process  is  a  slow  one  to  those  impatient  for  buds  and 
blossoms.  The  Safrano,  rich,  flesh  tint ;  Isabella  Sprunt, 
yellow,  and  White  Daily,  are  also  beautiful,  free-flower- 
ing sorts.  Good-sized  Roses,  full  of  buds  and  blossoms, 
can  be  purchased  at  from  forty  to  fifty  cents  each,  and 
smaller  ones  for  much  less. 

THE    CALLA. 

This  queenly  Daughter  of  the  Nile  is  a  noble  and 
showy  plant  for  the  window,  requiring  a  congenial 
clayey  soil  and  an  abundance  of  water,  being  aquatic  in 
its  habits.     From  May  to  September  it  is  usually  set 


WINDOW-PLANTS.  103 

away  in  the  shade,  or  the  pot  is  turned  over  on  ifcs  side 
under  some  sheltering  shrub  or  tree,  to  have  a  "-rest," 
and  is  not  watered  at  all.  This  is  the  treatment  it  gets 
at  the  hands  of  the  Kile  through  the  dry  season.  In 
September  it  is  repotted,  if  necessary,  as  it  requires 
plenty  of  root  room,  freely  watered,  and  placed  where  it 
is  to  grow.  Soon  the  broa^,  rich  leaves  begin  to  unfold, 
and  before  many  weeks  the  flower  stems  push  upward, 
bearing  the  pure  white  chalices  that  are  a  delight  to  all. 
A  Call  a  must  be  two  or  three  years  old  before  amounting 
to  much  in  size.  In  winter  hot  water  should  be  poured 
into  the  saucers. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Let  the  beginner  in  plant-culture  keep  these  facts  in 
mind :  Window-plants,  to  be  successfully  grown  in  winter, 
require,  first,  as  much  light  by  day  as  can  possibly  be  ob- 
tained, and  utter  darkness  and  a  cooler  temperature  at 
night.  No  plant  sleeps  well  in  the  glare  of  a  lamp  or 
within  reach  of  a  raging  stove  or  furnace-heat. 

The  air  about  them  must  be  fresh  and  pure.  Sleeping 
rooms  and  apartments  in  daily  use  are  unfit  for  plant 
growth,  as  well  as  human  growth,  unless  well  ventilated. 

The  plants  must  have  soil  suited  to  their  needs  ;  leaf- 
mould,  loam,  sand,  and  rotted  manure — equal  parts  of 
each — for  Roses,  Heliotropes,  Fuchsias,  Geraniums,  Car- 
nations, Ivy,  Violets,  and  all  Foliage  plants.  A  lighter, 
sandier  soil  better  suits  the  Abutilon,  Azalea,  Bouvardia, 
Calceolaria,  and  Salvia.  The  Primrose  and  the  Oxalis 
like  a  large  admixture  of  leaf -mould,  while  the  Calla  is 
at  home  only  in  clayey  loam. 

Lumps  of  charcoal  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  pots  to 
the  depth  of  an  inch  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of 
the  pots,  assist  drainage  and  tend  to  keep  the  soil  sweet. 

Judicious  watering  is    of    great    importance.     Some 


104         FARM  HOMES,   IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

plants  are  constant  "tipplers,"  but  nearly  all  plants 
suited  to  window-culture  in  ordinary  living-rooms  require 
water  only  when  the  soil  is  dry.  A  Cactus  and  a  Calla 
are  apt  to  be  deluged  alike  by  the  inexperienced,  and  yet 
their  needs  are  widely  unlike. 

Never  crowd  plants.  Three  or  four  vigorous,  shapely 
plants  growing  in  a  bright,  neatly-draperied  window,  are 
a  much  more  refreshing  and  respectable  sight  than 
twenty  pots  huddled  together,  with  a  choked  and  spin- 
dling mass  of  things  struggling  up  to  get  a  glimpse  of 
sunlight. 

New  pots  are  better  if  soaked  in  water  before  being 
used,  and  old  ones  should  be  scrubbed  clean. 

Callas,  Fuchsias,  Heliotropes,  Roses,  and  Foliage  plants, 
need  plenty  of  root  room.  Geraniums  will  blossom  more 
profusely  if  pot-pinched  a  little. 

The  common  unglazed  pots  are  better  for  plant  growth 
til  an  the  china  or  the  fancifully  decorated  ones  ;  but 
when  a  blossoming  or  foliage  plant  is  wanted  for  the  ta- 
ble, or  for  a  parlor  bracket,  the  pot  in  which  it  is  grow- 
ing can  be  placed  inside  the  ornamental  one. 

When  a  plant  has  filled  a  pot  with  its  roots,  it  must  be 
repotted  into  one  of  larger  size.  Place  a  little  fresh 
charcoal  and  earth  in  the  bottom,  set  the  plant  with  its 
ball  of  roots  into  it,  and  fill  in  firmly  all  around  with 
fresh  soil.  Prune  and  trim  the  plant,  if  it  is  in  need  of 
such  treatment,  water  thoroughly,  and  keep  it  in  partial 
shade  for  two  or  three  days,  until  the  more  or  less  dis- 
turbed roots  begin  to  feel  at  homa 


THE  VEGETABLE   GAEDElf.  105 

CHAPTER   VIII. 
THE    VEGETABLE    GARDEN". 

Choice  varieties  of  vegetables  and  fruits  are  just  as 
easily  raised  as  poor  ones,  and  are  ten  times  more  valua- 
ble. In  the  management  of  many  farm-gardens,  how- 
ever, seeds  are  saved  as  it  may  happen,  here  and  there, 
or  bought  from  the  old  collections  of  country  stores,  and 
only  a  small  variety  chosen  at  that.  The  result  is  a 
** garden"  that  would  be  quite  put  to  shame  by  the  plot 
of  ground  behind  some  ''city  man's"  house,  or  the  cot- 
tage of  some  busy,  intelligent  mechanic,  who  appreciates 
the  resources  that  lie  in  a  bit  of  Mother  Earth,  and 
studies  how  to  make  the  most  of  them. 

It  must  be  confessed,  too,  that  there  is  a  great  deal  in 
emulation  and  competition.  The  villager,  who  is  hu- 
man, doubtless  likes  his  early  peas  and  fine  tomatoes  for 
their  intrinsic  worth.  And  he  likes  mightily,  also,  to 
catch  an  occasional  passer-by  casting  admiring  eyes  at 
his  superior  vegetables  and  clean  walks ;  at  any  rate,  I 
have  never  known  him  to  openly  resent  such  glances  ! 
The  countryman,  who,  maybe,  is  too  hurried  in  the 
morning  and  too  tired  at  night  for  weeding  walks  and 
training  vines,  does  not  always  feel  this  incentive.  His 
garden  ''looks  about  ag  well  as  other  farmers'  gardens," 
and  so  he  is  content  with  a  little  seeding,  a  little  weed- 
ing, and  a  good  deal  of  rubbish. 

Here  is  another  little  field  for  reform  in  which  farmers' 
wives  and  daughters  can  distinguish  themselves.  Far  be 
it  that  they  should  become  sun-burned  and  hand-hard- 
ened laborers,  like  those  too  patient  toilers,-  the  peasant 
women  of  the  old  countries,  who  do  both  house- work 
and  field-work  !     But  half  an  hour  each  day,  lengthened 


106         FARM   HOMES,    IN"-DOORS   AKD   OUT-DOORS. 

to  an  hour  occasionally,  spent  in  giving  attention  to  the 
growing  of  the  best  vegetables  and  luscious  fruits,  would  be 
a  far  nobler  and  more  beneficial  use  of  time  than  devoting 
it  to  the  ruffing  and  tucking  of  sewing-machine  work,  or 
the  baking  and  frying  of  so  many  **  sorts  "  for  the  table, 
or  the  idle  gossip  about  such  a  one's  new  dress,  or  the 
last  installment  of  the  weak  serial  story.  The  majority 
of  farmers'  wives  and  daughters  are  not  given  to  this  waste- 
fulness of  time,  but  many  are,  and  still  think  they  have 
"  no  opportunity  for  putting  their  noses  out  of  doors  ! " 

Come  into  the  garden,  Maude  ;  and  bring  your  mothers 
and  sisters  with  you,  and  see  what  revolution  you  can 
create  !  The  young  brothers,  too,  in  spite  of  their  pro- 
verbial hatred  of  weeding  and  hoeing,  can  have  garden- 
ing made  interesting  to  them,  if  they  only  have  a  share 
in  the  profits,  as  well  as  the  work — which  is  simply 
fair.  Let  them  have  a  piece  of  ground,  and  make  their 
own  selection  of  seeds.  Let  mothers  study  up  with  them 
on  gardening,  and  let  them  assist  in  making  labels,  saving 
seeds,  starting  the  early  vegetables  in  boxes,  and  prun- 
ing and  grafting,  etc.  It  will  be  a  wonder  if  their  young 
eyes  do  not  brighten,  and  their  young  muscles  lend  them- 
selv3s  with  a  will  to  making  "our  garden"  a  success. 

The  following  is  a  short  list  of  some  of  the  best  kinds 
of  Vegetables — a  few  of  which,  I  am  certain,  are  often 
lacking  in  farm-gardens,  but  which  no  family  will  want 
to  miss  from  their  table,  after  having  enjoyed  them  for 

one  season : 

% 

ASPARAGUS. 

This  delicious  esculent,  like  all  other  good  things,  has 
to  be  earned,  for  it  requires  some  care  and  painstaking 
to  found  an  asparagus  bed.  Once  made,  it  will  hold  its 
own  for  ten  years  or  more,  sending  up  its  tender  shoots 
close  upon  the  very  heels  of  winter,  and  alfording  "a 


THE  VEGETABLE  GAEDES".  107 

taste  of  spring  "  long  before  other  green  things  appear. 
A  bed  three  feet  wide  and  twenty  feet  long  will  supply 
an  ordinary  family.  It  must  be  spaded  to  three  feet  in 
depth,  richly  manured,  and  sprinkled  with  salt.  Aspara- 
gus can  be  raised  from  the  seed;  or  the  young  plants 
can  be  "purchased — and  so  hasten  the  harvest  by  a  year. 
Conover's  Colossal  is  one  of  the  best  sorts.  The  plants 
should  be  set  two  and  a  half  feet?  apart  each  way.  The 
first  spring  after  planting  they  should  not  be  cut  at  all ; 
the  second  spring  half  the  shoots  can  be  used  ;  afterward, 
the  whole  bed  can  be  draAvn  upon.  Always  cut  the  shoots 
a  little  below  the  surface  of  the  ground,  and  when  they 
are  three  or  four  inches  high.  Every  fall  the  bed  must 
be  manured,  and  stirred  up  with  a  fork,  disturbing  the 
roots  as  little  as  possible. 

BEAKS. 

Dwarf  German  Wax  is  one  of  the  best  and  earliest 
of  String  Beans.  Its  pods  are  cream  color,  and  are  ten- 
der and  rich.  The  Giant  Wax — a  later  variety — will 
supply  String  Beans  until  late  in  the  season,  requiring 
more  time  for  cooking  than  the  dwarf  variety. 

The  Cranberry,  or  Wren's  Egg,  is  the  best  Pole- 
bean  extant.  It  is  earlier  than  the  Lima,  and  has  a  richer 
flavor.  It  is  an  excellent  sort  for  winter  cooking — being 
particularly  good  when  mixed  with  canned  corn  as  suc- 
cotash. 

BEETS. 

Sow  the  Dark  Red  Egyptian  for  early  roots,  and 
the  Sea  Kale  for  greens.  The  latter  sends  up  new 
leaves  as  fast  as  the  old  ones  are  cut. 

CABBAGE. 

The  Early  Dwarf  York,  and  Jersey  Wakefield,  for 
summer  use,  and  the  Flat  Dutch,  for  winter,  are  excel- 


108         FAEM  HOMES,   IN-DOOBS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

lent  sorts.     The  smaller  and  more  compact  the  head, 
the  better  the  flavor. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

This  is  rather  rare  in  ordinary  gardens,  and  should  be 
more  generally  cultivated.  With  a  " boiled  dinner"  it  is 
of  finer  and  richer  quality  than  cabbage,  and  is  also 
excellent  for  pickling.  Early  Erfurt,  and  a  late  sort, 
Le  Normand,  are  the  best. 

CELERY. 

This  is  another  rare  edible  among  farmers.  Besides 
being  an  excellent  relish,  and  an  ornament  to  the  dinner- 
table,  with  its  curly  green  leaves  and  white  crisp  stalks, 
it  is  very  beneficial  to  the  human  system — being  said  to 
aid  digestion  and  tranquilize  the  nerves.  Celery,  like 
Asparagus,  needs  a  little  extra  culture.  It  is  first  sown 
in  a  bed,  and  the  plants,  when  three  inches  high,  are  set 
out  in  rows  six  or  eight  inches  apart.  Professional  gar- 
deners again  transplant  it,  when  it  is  a  foot  high,  into 
"blanching  trenches,"  but  the  Dwarf  White,  and  the 
Boston  Market,  can  be  hilled  up  without  moving,  and 
so  blanched  without  much  trouble.  As  the  stalks  grow, 
the  dirt  must  be  heaped  up  about  them,  so  that  only  the 
top  leaves  are  exposed.  A  rich  soil  is  needed  for  its  suc- 
cessful growth. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Early  White  Spine  is  one  of  the  best  varieties,  both 
for  summer  use  and  for  pickling. 

SWEET  CORN. 

Farmer's  Club,  and  Moore's  Early  Concord,  stand  at 
the  head  in  this  article  of   good  and  nutritious  food. 


THE  VEGETABLE   GARDEN".  109 

It  should  be  planted  at  two  or  three  different  times,  and 
so  secured  for  the  table  from  July  to  October. 

CARROTS. 

These  vegetables  are  excellent  for  flavoring  soups,  and 
are  also  relished  by  many,  if  cooked  like  parsnips  or 
squash.  A  few  fed  to  a  cow  every  day  through  the  win- 
ter will  much  improve  the  quality  and  quantity  of  her 
milk.  The  prettily  fringed  leaves  are  nice  for  the 
"greens"  m  bouquets,  when  green  leaves  are  scarce. 
Bliss's  Improved  Long  Orange  is  the  best  sort. 

EGG   PLAKT. 

This  attractive  vegetable,  in  the  Pekin  New  Black  vari- 
ety, bears  fruit  weighing  from  four  to  six  pounds,  and  of 
most  excellent  flavor.  In  Northern  States  the  seeds  must 
be  started  in  a  hot-bed  or  in  window  boxes. 

LETTUCE. 

Giant's  White  Cos  is  a  rich,  tender  variety,  and  can  be 
used  late  into  the  summer.  Early  Curled  Simpson  is 
best  for  early  use. 

MELON'S. 

Be  sure  to  have  a  fine  lot  of  Skillman's  Fine  Netted 
Muskmelons,  the  earliest  and  most  delicious  now  grown. 
The  best  Watermelon?  are  the  Excelsior  and  Black 
Spanish. 

ONIONS. 

Yellow  Danvers  and  Early  White  Naples  will  give  good 
satisfaction.  The  latter  is  of  mild  flavor,  snow-white, 
and  tender. 

PARSNIPS. 

The  Student,  a  rather  new  variety,  is  the  best. 


110         FARM  HOMES,   IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOBS. 
PARSLEY. 

This  is  fine  for  flavoring  soups,  salads,  and  omelets, 
and  for  decorating  meats  and  vegetables.  Its  beautifully 
curled  leaves  can  also  be  used  in  bouquet-making.  A 
bunch  of  it  can  be  taken  up  in  the  fall,  cut  back  a  little, 
and  planted  in  a  box  m  a  sunny  kitchen  window,  where 
it  will  be  convenient  for  use. 

PEAS. 

Laxton's  Alpha  and  the  Champion  of  England  are  both 
richly-flavored  and  prolific  sorts.  McLean's  Little  Gem 
is  a  good  early  sort,  growing  but  a  foot  in  hight,  and  re- 
quiring no  support.  It  is  well  to  plant  the  three  varie- 
ties, and  so  have  a  succession  of  nice  peas  for  the  table 
— the  Champion  being  the  latest  of  all. 

PEPPERS. 

The  Large  Bell,  Sweet  Mountain,  and  Cherry,  are  de- 
sirable— ^the  first  two  for  pickling  and  the  latter  for  pep- 
per-sauce. The  seeds  should  be  started  in  the  house  or 
in  a  hot-bed  in  severe  climates.  The  Cherry  pepper  is 
very  prettily  grown  in  a  large  flower-pot  or  box. 

POTATOES. 

The  Peerless,  the  Early  Rose,  the  Snowflake,  and  St. 
Patrick  are  all  excellent  sorts.  Early  Rose  has  years  ago 
establisiied  itself  as  an  early  and  profuse  bearer.  The 
Peerless  is  a  fine  potato  for  keeping.  I  have  found  them 
as  firm  and  sound  in  June  as  when  first  ripened.  Queen 
of  the  South  is  the  best  Sweet  Potato  for  northern 
gardens, 

PUMPKINS. 

The  Connecticut  Field  bears  away  the  palm  as  being 
the  richest  and  finest  grained. 


THE  VEGETABLE   GAKDElf.  Ill 

EADISHES. 

Give  these  early  esculents  a  rich,  warm  bed,  against  a 
south  wall,  where,  on  chilly  nights,  a  window-sash,  or 
even  an  old  blanket  can  be  laid  over  them,  and  in  an  as- 
tonishmgly  short  time  they  will  be  large  enough  for  the 
table.  The  Long  Scarlet,  Long  White  Naples,  and  Scar- 
let Olive  are  all  good  kinds.  When  sowing  the  seeds  a 
thm  layer  of  sand  on  the  top  of  the  bed  will  increase  its 
warmth  and  hasten  germination. 

SPINACH. 

This  vegetable  affords  another  early  dish  for  spring 
dinner-tables,  and  should  be  grown  in  every  garden. 
Broad- Leaved  Flanders  is  the  earliest  and  best  sort. 

SQUASHES. 

The  Boston  Marrow  is  an  excellent  sort  for  fall  use, 
and  the  old  reliable  Hubbard  the  best  for  winter.  For 
summer  use  the  Scolloped  Bush  occupies  small  space 
and  bears  profusely. 

TURN^IPS. 

Golden  Ball  and  Buist's  Improved  Ruta  Baga  are  the 
best  yellow  varieties. 

TOMATOES. 

The  Trophy  and  White  Apple  are  the  finest  varieties 
that  have  yet  appeared.  In  Northern  States  start  the 
seeds  under  glass,  about  the  middle  of  March.  When 
two  inches  high  transplant  into  little  pots  or  boxes,  and 
when  warm  weather  is  established,  set  them  in  rows  in 
good,  mellow  soil,  four  feet  apart.  Water  them  thor- 
oughly and  shield  from  the  hot  sun  and  from  hard  winds 


112          FARM   HOMES,    I1S"-D00ES  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

for  three  or  four  days.  As  they  grow  top-heavy,  make 
supports  for  them.  Clip  the  ends  a  little  when  the  fruit 
begins  to  appear,  and  early  and  magnificent  tomatoes 
will  be  the  result. 

HERBS. 

Anise,  Balm,  Horehound,  Hyssop,  Mint,  Saffron, 
Sage,  and  Summer  Savory,  together  with  Dill  and  Cara- 
way should  all  be  represented  m  the  kitchen  garden,  and 
given  good  soil  and  care.  They  are  all  easily  grown  from 
seed,  but  in  the  North  it  is  safest  and  surest  to  st^rt  them 
in  a  hot-bed  or  m  window-boxes.  If  to  be  sown  m  the 
open  ground,  do  not  put  them  in  until  the  middle  of 
May.  Be  sure  to  have  the  soil  pulverized  and  cover  but 
slightly  when  the  seeds  are  very  small.  All  herbs  should 
be  gathered  when  m  flower,  and  when  dried  put  into 
paper  bags  and  labelled.  Sage,  Savory,  Mint,  and  Thyme 
are  especially  useful  m  the  kitchen,  while  Horehound, 
Hyssop,  and  Anise  are  harmless  and  oftentimes  effectual 
medicines  for  mild  ailments. 

HOW  TO   MAKE   A    HOT-BED. 

If  it  can  be  so  arranged  it  should  be  built  against  a 
shed  or  a  board  fence,  with  its  face  to  the  southeast  or  to 
the  south.  Horse-manure  is  the  best  to  use  for  this  pur- 
pose. Make  a  frame  of  boards  or  plank  as  large  as  de- 
sired, and  a  foot  and  a  half  higher  at  the  back  than  in 
front,  so  as  to  furnish  a  slanting  support  for  the  glass  to 
rest  upon.  It  should  be  two  feet  high  m  front.  Place 
the  manure  in  the  bottom  to  the  depth  of  a  foot  and  a 
half.  It  should  be  well  fermented  and  warm.  Over  it 
spread  a  few  inches  of  good  garden-soil,  in  which  is  a  fair 
mixture  of  sand.  Cover  the  bed  with  the  window-sash 
and  let  the  sun  blaze  in  upon  it  through  two  or  three 
bright  days,  having  taken  the  precaution  to  bank  the  bed 


SMALL   FRUITS   AI^D   GARDEN   FRUIT  TREES.         113 

on  the  outside  with  soil  and  manure.  Plant  the  seeds  in 
rows  with  labelled  sticks  between  each  kind.  Sprinkle 
over  warm  water  with  a  rose-sprinkler,  and  adjust  the 
sashes.  Give  the  bed  fresh  air  at  noon  every  fair  day, 
and  see  that  the  young  plants  do  not  suffer  for  water. 


CHAPTER    IX. 

SMALL    FRUITS    AND    GARDEN    FRUIT    TREES. 

Without  undertaking  any  great  detour  through  the 
extensive  field  of  Horticulture,  I  will  name  some  fruits 
that  everybody  owning  an  acre  of  land,  with  the  blessing 
of  God's  sunlight  upon  it,  ought  to  have.  As  with 
vegetables,  it  involves  no  more  time,  labor,  or  space,  to 
grow  good  fruits  than  to  grow  poor  and  unimproved 
sorts.  And  aside  from  the  not  great  expense  of  securing 
good  varieties,  there  is  no  reason  why  the  farmer's  table, 
above  all  tables  in  the  world,  should  not  be  supplied,  the 
year  round,  with  these  most  delicious  and  healthful  of 
foods,  viz:  Apples,  Cranberries,  and  dried  or  canned  Ber- 
ries, for  winter  and  spring  ;  Currants  and  Strawberries 
for  early  summer  ;  Raspberries,  Blackberries,  and  Melons 
from  July  to  September ;  Grapes,  Pears,  Plums  and 
Peaches  throughout  the  autumn.  What  a  magnificent 
bill  of  fare  !  And  all,  with  the  exception  of  large  apple 
trees,  can  be  grown  upon  an  acre  of  ground. 

APPLES. 

Among  Apples  suited  to  garden  inclosures  is  the  Tetof- 
sky,  which  has  this  hard  name  because  it  is  a  Russian 


114         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

apple.  It  only  requires  ten  feet  of  space,  bears  at  an 
early  age,  and  alfords  ripe  fruit  in  July  and  August. 
The  apples  are  fair-sized,  bright  golden-yellow,  with  a 
red  stripe,  mildly  acid,  and  richly  aromatic.  It  is  a 
hardy  tree. 

Among  Crab-apples  the  Montreal  Beauty,  Hyslop,  and 
Transcendent,  are  the  best  sorts. 

Every  farmer  should  have  in  his  orchard  the  luscious 
Red  Astrachan  and  Fall  Jenneting,  for  early  use,  and  for 
winter  the  Westfield  Seek-no-Further,  and  the  Golden 
Pippin. 

BERRIES. 

In  these  fruits  a  little  investment  of  money  brings 
prompt  and  large  returns.  Fifty  Strawberry  plants  and 
a  few  "canes"  of  Raspberries  will,  in  two  years,  load  the 
family  table  with  their  generous  fruitage. 

Strawberries. — Monarch  of  the  AVest  is  one  of  the  best 
berries  for  family  use,  being  large,  tender,  mildly  acid, 
and  very  productive.  The  Great  American  is  an  im- 
mense berry,  being  exhibited  at  fairs  seven,  eight,  and 
nine  inches  in  circumference.  It  is  quite  a  new  variety, 
and  a  few  plants  of  it  would  make  an  interesting  **  gar- 
den "  for  some  ambitious  farm-boy  or  girl  to  look  after. 
For  market  culture  the  old  Wilson's  Seedling  seems  to 
be  unsurpassed. 

Raspberries. — Mammoth  Cluster  and  Gregg  are  tiie 
finest  of  the  Black  Caps.  Turner  and  Herstine  are  good 
and  hardy  red  sorts,  and  Antwerp  Yellow  is  a  creamy 
orange  berry  of  good  quality  and  flavor. 

Raspberries  should  be  planted  in  rich,  mellow  soil, 
three  or  four  canes  to  the  hill.  After  the  berry  harvest 
is  over  each  fall,  the  old  stalks  or  canes  should  be  cut 
out,  as  it  is  the  new  ones  that  bear  the  next  year's  fruit, 
and  they  will  be  far  more  vigorous  and  productive  from 
having  the  field  to  themselves. 


SMALL  FRUITS  A5s"D   GARDEIT  FRUIT  TREES.         115 

Blackberries. — The  Lawton  and  Early  Wilson  bear 
fruit  of  enormous  size,  and  well  repay  good  cultivation. 

Gooseberries, — Smith's  Improved  is  moderate  and  com- 
pact in  growth,  and  largely  productive,  thus  recommend- 
ing itself  for  garden  culture.  Eoe's  Early  Ruby  is  an- 
other excellent  sort. 

Currants. — The  Black  Naples  is  a  large,  fine  sort,  ex- 
cellent for  wine  and  jelly.  The  White  Grape  is  an  early 
and  profuse  bearer,  and  the  Red  Cherry,  a  sort  that 
should  be  grown  in  every  garden  in  place  of  the  small, 
common  variety. 

GRAPES. 

In  Europe  "  grape-cures  "  are  established,  to  which  all 
sorts  of  debilitated,  blood-poisoned  people  go,  to  live — 
aside  from  a  little  bread — entirely  upon  grapes,  sunlight, 
and  pure  air  for  weeks  at  a  time.  It  is  one  of  the  **  reg- 
ulations" that  these  happy  invalids  must  pick  their  own 
grapes,  and,  as  their  appetites  rapidly  increase,  it  is  no 
doubt  a  fact  that  they  owe,  in  part,  their  recoveries, 
which  are  generally  certain,  to  the  almost  constant  sun- 
light and  the  invigorating  mountain  air  in  which  they 
pass  their  waking  hours. 

Grape-cures,  or  almost  any  kind  of  fruit-cures,  might 
be  established  in  our  own  gardens  and  on  our  own  hill- 
sides. The  prescription  is  a  very  simple  one ;  enough 
of  sound,  ripe  fruit  (eaten  at  regular  intervals)  to  satisfy 
hunger,  the  fruit  to  be  picked  by  the  invalids  themselves, 
thus  insuring  pure  air,  sunlight,  and  mild  exercise.  The 
grape  is  one  of  the  best  and  purest  of  tonics,  and  eaten, 
as  it  is  in  such  instances,  almost  exclusively,  a  cleansed 
and  purified  system  is  the  result,  with  all  its  happy  man- 
ifestations in  brightened  eyes,  clear  and  ruddy  complex- 
ions, tranquil  nerves,  and  active  mental  and  physical 
powers.     Beginning   with    currants — which  are  almost 


116  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AXD   OUT-DOORS. 

equal  to  grapes,  medicinally — and  eating  one's  way 
through  strawberries,  raspberries,  and  blackberries,  into 
the  pears,  plums,  and  grapes  of  autumn,  accompanying 
the  course  with  the  best  of  wheat-bread,  morning  baths, 
plenty  of  sleep,  plenty  of  bright,  dry,  out-door  air  and 
pleasant  exercise,  would  build  a  weakened  constitution 
up  *'as  good  as  new." 

First  upon  my  list  of  Grapes  I  should  place  the  early 
and  delicious  Delaware,  a  single  cluster  of  which  fills  a 
room  with  delightful,  fruity  aroma.  It  is  a  sweet,  juicy, 
thin-skinned  grape,  growing  in  compact  bunches,  in  color 
a  light,  half -transparent  red.  It  is  one  of  the  best  sorts 
for  the  table,  and  particularly  suited,  on  account  of  its 
early  ripening,  to  the  extreme  Northern  States. 

The  Lady  is  a  new  white  grape,  also  early.  It  is  large, 
sweet,  rich,  and  thin-skinned.  At  present  it  is  sold  at  a 
higher  price  than  the  more  plentiful  sorts. 

The  Clinton  is  a  vigorous,  hardy,  profuse-bearing 
grape,  not  so  good  for  eating,  but  excellent  for  wine  and 
jelly. 

The  Catawba  and  Isabella  are  among  the  best  varieties, 
but,  being  late  in  ripening,  are  sometimes  cut  off  by 
frosts  in  the  Northern  States. 

PEARS. 

In  this  most  desirable  fruit  the  Bartlett  and  a  new 
sort,  the  Souvenier  de  Congress,  are  the  best  to  choose 
for  summer  ripening,  the  latter  being  in  perfection  early 
in  August.  Swan's  Orange,  Seckel,  and  Vicar  of  Wink- 
field,  are  splendid  fall  and  winter  sorts. 

PLUMS. 

Choose  the  Lombard,  Golden  Drop,  and  Imperial 
Gage. 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PEEPAKINQ.  117 

PEACHES. 

Barnard's  Yellow  Eare-ripe,  Large  Early  York,  and 
Mixon's  Free,  are  all  first-class  varieties.  It  is  a  consoling 
fact  to  people  living  above  the  peach  *^  belt  "that  this 
fruit  is  now  so  nicely  preserved  by  the  "evaporation" 
process.  It  is  much  cheaper  than  the  canned  fruit,  and 
when  gently  stewed  in  a  thin  white-sugar  syrup  is  very 
delicious. 


CHAPTER     X. 


THE   BEST    FOODS— AND   SOME  BEST   METHODS   OP 
PREPARING   THEM. 

**The  best  human  food,"  writes  an  eminent  physician, 
"I  believe  to  be  Wheat — the  king  of  grains  !  It  contains 
all  the  flesh-forming,  nerve-producing,  bone-making,  fat- 
creating  elements  of  nutrition.  Bread  is,  indeed,  the 
Staff  of  Life,  and  wheat  is  the  perfection  of  bread.  I 
know  of  no  article  of  food  which  so  perfectly  sustains  all 
the  powers  of  the  human  system  as  wheat  properly  cooked 
and  eaten  in  its  integrity. " 

By  integrity  the  Doctor  means  in  its  complete  and  un- 
adulterated wholeness. 

There  is  no  division  as  to  the  desirablene^  of  pure 
wheat  flour.  No  one  wants  to  eat  chalk,  alum,  or  plaster 
of  Paris,  and  the  farmer  who  has  his  wheat  ground  under 
his  own  eyes,  and  his  bread  made  at  home,  is  happily 
spared  all  *'  refinements  "  of  this  sort  in  his  daily  loaf. 

The  open  question  is,  whether  the  fine,  white  portion 
of  the  wheat  alone,  or  the  whole  grain  ground  together, 


118  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOOES  AXD   OUT-DOOES. 

makes  the  healthiest  bread  for  the  human  family — the 
majority  of  investigators  favoring  the  whole  grain. 

Prof.  Thurber  says  ;  **In  fine  flour  the  percentage  of 
starch  is  much  greater,  and  that  of  the  albuminoids  and 
earthy  matters  less,  than  in  the  whole  grain ;  conse- 
quently this  is  not  so  nutritious  as  a  flour  which  more 
nearly  represents  the  wheat  itself.  Pure  *  Graham '  flour 
should  consist  of  the  whole  wheat  ground  fine,  but  much 
that  is  sold  under  this  name  is  merely  bran  and  shorts 
subjected  to  a  second  grinding.  Properly  made,  Graham 
flour  is  very  nutritious,  but,  owing  to  the  amount  of 
crude  fibre  it  contains,  it  irritates  the  bowels  of  weak 
persons. " 

New  ways  of  grinding  have  been  invented,  by  which 
simply  the  hull  or  bran  is  removed  and  the  wheat  then 
ground,  which  makes  a  fine,  and  at  the  same  time,  a 
most  nutritious  flour.  And  this  must  be  the  flour  to  be 
chosen  by  those  who  hold  in  the  hollow  of  their  hands, 
so  to  speak,  the  health  of  the  family. 

Without  waiting  for  the  new  processes  any  farmer  can 
have  his  wheat  ground  into  genuine,  honest  Graham, 
reserving  a  portion  of  the  grist  for  **  fine  flour  "  for  occa- 
sional use,  or  for  any  unfortunately  **  weak  persons  "  in 
the  family  with  whom  Graham  may  disagree. 

Boiled  Wlieat. — Wheat  boiled  or  steamed  until  it  cracks 
open,  and  eaten  either  cold  or  warm  with  good,  rich  milk, 
and  sugar,  if  liked,  makes  an  excellent  breakfast  dish, 
and  also  a  good  dessert  for  dinner. 

Wheat  Mush, — Coarsely  ground  wheat  stirred  into 
salted  boiling  water,  cooked  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
served  with  milk  and  sugar  is,  as  Dr.  Nichols  declares, 
**one  of  the  nicest  and  best  forms  of  food,  and  very 
hearty."  A  good  sized  steel  coffee-mill  might  be  used 
for  "cracking"  the  wheat,  as  enough  for  half  a  dozen 
persons  can  be  ground  in  five  minutes. 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  119 

Wheat  Bread. — It  would  be  superfluous  to  tell  the  ma- 
jority of  farmers'  wives  how  to  make  good  bread,  but 
possibly  some  young  or  inexperienced  reader  may  derive 
benefit  from  these  recipes  : 

If  dry  yeast  is  used,  dissolve  one  cak-e  in  a  little  warm 
water,  with  enough  flour  for  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  until  light  and  foamy  before  pro- 
ceeding to  mix  the  sponge.  If  hop  or  potato  yeast  is 
used,  be  certain  that  it  is  fresh  and  sweet,  as  no  good 
bread  can  be  made  with  poor  yoast.  Use  a  cupful  for 
four  loaves  of  bread. 

Sift  six  quarts  of  flour  into  a  pan  or  bread-bowl, 
sprinkle  over  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  make  a  hole  in  the 
center  for  the  yeast,  which  pour  m  and  stir  slowly  in 
enough  of  luke-warm  water  to  make  a  soft  dough  of 
all  the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  with  a  strong  iron  or 
wooden  spoon,  cover  with  a  pan,  and  set  it  by  the  stove 
or  under  thick  cloths,  until  morning.  Then  knead 
it  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  and  let  it  rise 
again  in  the  pan.  When  light,  divide  the  dough  into 
four  loaves,  with  not  more  than  five  minutes  kneading, 
and  place  them  in  buttered  pans  to  rise.  When  they  are 
light  and  spongy  to  the  touch  they  are  ready  for  the 
oven.  The  oven  should  be  briskly  hot  at  first,  and  then 
tempered  down  to  milder  heat.  From  forty-five  minutes 
to  an  hour  is  required  for  the  baking.  When  done  slip 
them  from  the  pans  and  cover  with  a  light  cloth. 

Another  excellent  way  to  make  bread,  and  one  which 
always  involves  the  freshest  and  best  of  yeast,  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Reserve  three  or  four  boiled  potatoes  from  those 
cooked  for  dinner,  mash  them  while  warm  with  a  little 
salt,  pour  over  them  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  stir 
in  two  large  cupf  uls  of  flour.  When  this  batter  is  cooled 
to  luke-warm  heat,  add  a  yeast-cake,  previously  dissolved 
in  water,  as  in  the  first  recipe,  and  keep  it  near  the  stove. 
In  the  evening  stir  in  flour  enough  for  a  soft  dough,  and 


120         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  A2>D   OUT-DOORS. 

let  it  stand,  warmly  coyered  in  winter,  until  morning. 
Then  give  it  a  vigorous  kneading  for  twenty  minutes,  or 
more,  preparing  it  for  the  oven  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe. 

Graham  Bread. — The  best  Graham  bread  is  made  by 
taking  a  portion  of  the  "sponge,"  or  thin  batter,  set  for 
white  bread,  and  kneading  into  it  enough  of  Graham  flour 
to  make  it  into  loaves.  If  liked  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar  may  be  added  to  each  loaf. 

A  Good  Yeast. — To  six  thoroughly  mashed  potatoes, 
add  a  small  cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Place  all  in  a  kettle  or  pan 
upon  the  s*ove,  and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  boiling 
water,  m  which  a  handful  of  hops  has  been  steeped. 
Stir  m  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter,  and  set  aside  to 
become  nearly  cool,  when  a  cupful  of  yeast,  or  two  dis- 
solved cakes  of  dry  yeast,  must  be  added.  Keep  the  pan 
in  a  moderately  warm  place,  and  entirely  undisturbed  un- 
til it  becomes  light ,  then  stir  it  down  and  let  it  rise  again. 
It  must  then  be  poured  into  a  jug  or  jar,  and  put  away 
in  as  cool  a  place  as  possible.  A  large  cupful  will  be 
sufficient  for  four  good  sized  loaves  of  bread. 

When  Bread  IS  Fit  to  be  Eaten. — Bread  cannot  be  said 
to  be  **done"  until  it  has  been  out  of  the  oven  at  least 
twelve  hours.  A  mouthful  of  fresh- baked  bread  lies 
upon  the  stomach  very  much  like  a  leaden  bullet ;  and 
the  wise  house-keeper  will  endeavor  to  keep  the  bread-box 
so  supplied  that  there  may  be  no  necessity  for  cutting  an 
unripe  loaf,  in  which  the  spongy  cells  caused  by  fermen- 
tation have  had  no  time  to  harden  into  the  palatable  form 
which  distmguishes  bread  from  dough. 

Substitutes  for  Bread. — By  keeping  plenty  of  white 
and  Graham  bread  m  readiness  for  the  table,  those  miser- 
able substitutes,  salaratus  biscuits,  short-cakes,  and  the 
like,  will  seldom  be  resorted  to.  In  fact  there  are  very 
few  kinds  of  biscuits,  rolls,  muffins,  and  other  hot  breads. 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARIN-Q.  121 

but  are  more  beneficial  to  the  human  stomach  if  left  off 
the  bill  of  fare  altogether.  But  sometimes  emergencies 
arise  in  which  it  becomes  necessary  for  the  house-keeper 
to  whisk  up  something  of  the  sort,  and  I  give  such 
recipes  as  are  the  least  pernicious,  and,  at  the  same  time, 
the  least  trouble  to  follow.  Besides,  they  have  been 
found  to  be  very  palatable  : 

Cream  Puffs.  —One  cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  of  sifted 
flour  for  a  smootli,  but  not  stiff  batter.  Beat  all  thor- 
oughly together  for  five  minutes,  and  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir  again  briskly. 
Have  the  oven  and  the  gem-irons  at  a  lively  heat.  Drop 
the  batter  into  the  buttered  irons  and  bake  until  the 
puffs  are  delicately  browned.  Shp  them  from  the  irons 
upon  a  warm  plate  and  cover  with  a  napkin. 

Graham  Puff's. — Beat  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  and 
one  quart  of  sifted  Graham  flour  together  for  ten  min- 
utes. (An  egg-whisk  is  excellent  to  use  in  this  case,  as 
the  perfection  of  the  puffs  depends  upon  the  thorough 
whipping  of  the  batter  and  the  proper  heat  of  the  oven.) 
Add  two  beaten  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake 
the  same  as  Cream  Puffs.  Half  these  quantities  can  be 
used  for  a  family  of  three  or  four  persons. 

WJieat  or  Corn  Muffins. — Mix  into  one  quart  of  wheat 
flour,  or  one  pint  of  corn-meal,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  and  enough  of  rich  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter. Add  a  teaspoonful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  beat 
well  together,  and  bake  in  buttered  muffin  nngs,  or  a 
muffin  pan,  in  a  brisk  oven.  When  done,  cover  them 
for  a  few  minutes  with  a  light  cloth,  then  slip  them  from 
the  rings  or  pan  and  send  to  the  table  on  a  warm  plate 
with  a  napkin  over  them. 

Baked  Corn  Grits. — Stir  a  cupful  of  hominy  or  grits 
into  a  quart  of  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  for  twenty 
6 


122         FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOES. 

minutes.  When  cool,  add  two  eggs  and  beat  it  thor- 
oughly. Bake  it  in  a  shallow,  well-buttered  pan  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  cut  into  squares  for  the  table. 

Pioneer  Johnny-Cake, — Over  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  corn- 
meal  sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar,  and  add  boiling  water — be  sure  that  it  is  boil- 
ing— until  a  thick  batter  is  formed.  Place  a  thick- 
bottomed  frying-pan  or** spider"  upon  the  stove,  well 
rubbed  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork  or  suet.  Pour  in  the 
batter,  place  a  tin  cover  over,  and  let  it  bake  slowly  for 
twenty  minutes,  when  turn  it  with  a  broad-bladed  knife 
and  bake  for  ten  minutes  more. 

Green-Corn  Cakes. — Two  cupfuls  of  grated  sweet-corn, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  beaten  e^gs,  one  cupful  of 
new  milk,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  Eoyal  Baking  Powder, 
flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter.  Beat  all  thoroughly  to- 
gether and  pour  into  gem-irons  to  bake.  Or  it  may  be 
baked  in  a  tm  and  cut  into  squares. 

Corn  Starch  Crackers, — Three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cup- 
ful of  corn  starch,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder.  Sift  all  together  m  a  pan, 
and  rub  in  one  teaspoonful  of  riice  lard.  Then  add  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  sweet  milk  to  form  a  dough. 
Knead  it  for  a  few  minutes  and  let  it  stand  covered  with 
a  cloth  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  ten  minutes  will  an- 
swer in  summer.  Then  roll  the  dough  out  \'ery  thin,  cut 
in  round  cakes,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  lay  them  on 
buttered  tins,  brush  the  tops  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  milk, 
and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  from  eight  to  ten  minutes. 
These  crackers  are  nice,  warm  or  cold,  and  excellent  for 
school  lunches  and  pic-nic  occasions. 

Sunday  Morning  Rolls. — One  and  a  half  pint  of  new 
milk,  one  cupful  of  hop  yeast,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  flour  enough  for  forming  dough,  which  must  be  cov- 
ered and  bft  to  rise  over  night.     In  the  mornmg  add  the 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS  OF   PREPARING.  123 

whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
and  flour  enough  for  kneading.  Knead  the  dough 
briskly  for  ten  minutes,  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of 
half  an  inch,  cut  in  four-inch  squares,  brush  the  tops 
with  sweet  milk,  and  fold  them  over  cornerwise ;  place 
them  close  together  in  buttered  pans  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  until  light,  when  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Fried  Corn  Mush. — This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish  when 
prepared  in  the  following  way  :  Dip  cold,  firm  slices  of 
properly  cooked  mush  first  in  beaten  and  salted  eggs,  and 
then  in  fine  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry 
them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  lard  until  nicely  browned. 
The  mush  does  not  absorb  the  lard,  and  is  much  nicer 
than  when  merely  "stewed"  in  a  frying-pan,  as  it  so 
often  is. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread. — This,  like  most  preparations  of 
corn-meal,  is  best  eaten  in  winter,  when  the  system  is  in 
need  of  warmth-producing  foods.  Pour  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk  on  half  a  pint  of  sifted  corn-meal.  When  cool 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  syrup,  a  little  salt,  and  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir 
well  together  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bowl  or  granitized 
pan,  place  it  in  a  steamer  and  steam  it  steadily  for  two 
hours  and  a  half ;  then  place  it  in  the  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes to  brown. 

Rice  Muffins. — Two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  rice,  two 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour  in  which 
is  mixed  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  all  thor- 
oughly and  bake  in  a  muffin-pan,  filling  the  rings  about 
half  full.  A  cupful  of  sour  milk,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  can  be  substituted  for  the  sweet  milk  and  baking 
powder,  if  more  convenient,  and  the  batter  can  be  baked 
ni  a  common  tin  and  cut  into  squares  when  served. 


124         FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 
OATMEAL. 

*'  Next  to  wheat,"  says  Dr.  Nichols,  "  I  rank  Oatmeal." 
It  is  very  rich  in  nutriment,  and  with  the  accompani- 
ment of  the  pure  milk  and  cream  which  every  farmer 
has  at  hand,  it  is  so  nice  and  palatable  it  is  a  wonder  it 
is  not  a  familiar  form  of  food  in  every  American  farm- 
house. And  yet,  after  many  visits  to  the  country,  one 
of  the  good  things  which  I  hail  with  delight  on  my  re- 
turn to  the  city,  is  a  breakfast  saucer  of  oatmeal  mush 
and  real  cream,  surmounted  with  a  slowly-dissolving 
lump  of  crushed  sugar  ! 

Far  more  expensive  dishes  are  heaped  upon  the  tables 
of  these  good  and  generous  country  friends.  There  is 
no  lack  of  preserves,  fruit-cake,  rich  pies,  and  the  like ; 
but  the  good,  healthful,  simple  offerings  of  nature — the 
grains  cooked  in  their  ** integrity,"  the  noble  army  of 
vegetables  nicely  prepared,  the  creamy  omelettes,  the 
best  fruits,  the  perfect  bread,  the  fragrant  amber  coffee — 
how  very  queer  that  one  finds  these  things  on  twenty  ta- 
bles in  the  city  where  he  finds  them  on  one  table  in  the 
country  ! — the  place  where,  with  the  exception  of  a  very 
few  foreign  articles,  everything  necessary  for  the  best  and 
most  healthful  living  abounds  on  every  hand.  Farm- 
homes  should  not  be  subservient,  as  they  often  are,  par- 
ticularly in  the  West,  to  mere  wheat  and  pork  raising. 
They  should  have  more  fruits,  larger  varieties  of  vegeta- 
bles, and  more  intelligent  and  healthful  methods  of  pre- 
paring foods. 

One  little  move  in  this  direction  might  be  a  morning 
dish  of  oatmeal  mush  (or  oat  grits,  as  it  might  more 
properly  be  called),  with  an  accompaniment  of  good, 
rich  milk,  and  a  sprinkle  of  sugar,  in  place  of  the  almost 
universal  "  fried  pork  "  with  which  country  people  break 
their  fast.     It  is  not  only  palatable  and  nourishing  to 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  125 

children  and  ^^weak  persons,"  but  is  hearty  and  full  of 
bone  and  sinew  to  laboring  men. 

Oatmeal,  being  now  used  so  extensively  in  this  coun- 
try, is  much  cheaper  than  it  was  years  ago,  and  can 
always  be  obtained,  sweet  and  fresh,  in  city  and  town 
markets  ;  but  in  small  country  places,  where  the  demand 
for  it  from  the  farming  regions  around  is  light,  it  is  apt 
to  lie  on  the  dealers'  hands  so  long  that  it  becomes  stale 
and  bitter,  and  no  doubt  disgusts  many  a  country  exper- 
nnenter  in  its  merits.  The  genuine  *^  oatmeal  "of  the 
markets  always  comes  in  clear,  solid  little  grains  or  grits, 
and  is  sold  at  about  six  cents  per  pound.  It  swells  im- 
mensely when  cooked,  one  cupful  of  grits  making  mush 
enough  for  four  or  five  persons. 

Oatmeal  Mush. — Slowly  stir  a  large  cupful  of  grits  into 
a  little  more  than  a  quart  of  salted  boiling  water.  When 
well  mixed,  set  the  dish  or  kettle  containing  it  into  a  tin 
or  a  stew-pan  in  which  there  is  boiling  water.  Cover  the 
mush  and  let  it  cook,  without  stirring,  for  twenty  min- 
utes. The  pan  of  water  prevents  all  burning  or  scorch- 
ing, and  the  grain  is  cooked  without  being  mashed  into  a 
starchy  compound  by  frequent  stirring.  In  some  weather 
the  water  evaporates  rapidly,  and  more  may  be  needed 
before  the  cooking  is  completed.  The  mush  can  be  eaten 
warm  at  breakfast,  or  it  can  be  poured  into  a  pudding 
mold  and  eaten  as  dessert  for  dinner,  with  cream  and 
sugar.  In  the  latter  case,  a  handful  of  raisins  or  nice 
dried  currants  might  be  occasionally  boiled  with  the 
grits.  Or  the  pudding  might  be  served  with  apple  mar- 
malade. It  is  always  good,  however,  when  perfectly 
plain. 

RICE. 

There  is  a  good  and  an  indifferent  way  to  cook  rice. 
The  indifferent  way  is  to  throw  the  rice  into  boiling 
water,  stir  it  to  death  as  it  cooks,  and  serve  it  in  blue. 


126  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

soggy  masses  that  are  only  rendered  palatable  by  plenty 
of  cream  and  sugar,  or  some  kind  of  rich  pudding  sauce. 
The  good  way  is  to  soak  a  large  cupful  of  rice  in  cold 
water  for  two  or  three  hours — or  even  over  night ;  then 
tarn  off  the  water,  put  the  rice  into  an  earthen  or  granit- 
ized  dish  ;  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  new  milk  sufficiently 
salted,  and  set  the  dish  into  another  containing?  boiling: 
water — the  same  as  in  cooking  oatmeal.  Cover  it  closely, 
and  let  it  cook  for  an  hour  without  any  stirring.  When 
served,  its  superiority  to  indifferently  cooked  rice  will  be 
decidedly  apparent.  Rice-boilers,  which  can  be  used  for 
oatmeal,  wheat,  hominy,  and  the  like,  are  manufactured 
expressly  for  cooking  grains  in  this  way ;  but  they  are 
quite  expensive,  and  the  above  method,  although  not  quite 
so  **  handy,"  answers  very  well. 

FRUITS — FRESH    AND    PRESERVED. 

"  If  every  one  would  eat  an  orange  or  two  every  morn- 
ing before  breakfast,"  says  a  clear-headed  doctor,  **I 
should  soon  lose  all  my  patients  !" 

Fortunately  for  the  doctor,  every  one  cannot  have  one 
or  two  oranges,  or  even  half  an  orange,  before  breakfast. 
And  particularly  in  the  country  are  they  an  expensive 
luxury. 

But  there  are  many  substitutes  for  oranges,  which  are 
both  delicious  and  plentiful,  and  if  we  can  add  so  much 
to  our  stock  of  Good  Health  as  this  physician  intimates, 
by  breaking  the  night's  fast  with  a  little  fresh  fruit,  we 
ought  not  to  be  slow  in  adopting  such  an  agreeable  pre- 
scription, and  providing,  as  far  as  possible,  a  plentiful 
supply.  Toward  the  end  of  winter,  and  through  the 
spring  months,  nothing  is  so  grateful  and  beneficial  to 
the  system  as  fruit — not  the  sweet  "preserves,"  but  the 
fresh  or  nicely  canned  article ;  if  these  cannot  be  had, 
use  the  dried  fruits  stewed,  and  just  palatably  sweetened. 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  127 

"The  amount  of  nutriment  in  the  juicy  fruits,"  says 
Dr.  Nichols,  '^  is  not  large,  but  it  is  excellent  in  quality  ; 
and  the  juices  of  grapes,  peaches,  oranges,  pears,  straw- 
berries, currants,  cherries,  raspberries,  and  cranberries 
have  a  most  benign  and  purifying  effect  upon  the  system." 
The  more  pulpy  fruits,  such  as  apples,  bananas,  figs, 
dates,  plums,  etc.,  are  not  only  very  nutritious,  but 
exceedingly  healthful.  '^A  dish  of  stewed  prunes  or 
apples,  or  a  few  figs,  eaten  daily,  is  a  sure  cure  for 
constipation.  Plums  are  certainly  better  than  pills  ! 
And  even  when  fruit  is  costly,  it  is  less  costly  than 
physic.  There  is  no  telling  the  beneficial  influence  of 
the  annual  orange  crop  in  mid-winter  upon  the  health 
of  the  large  cities  of  the  world." 

In  an  article  on  "Food  Cures,"  Dr.  Hall  prescribes 
Watermelons  for  painful  and  feverish  "summer  com- 
plaints," and  for  fevers  of  all  sorts ;  the  fresh  juice  of 
Apples  for  nervous  dyspepsia,  and  the  free  use  of  raw, 
ripe,  and  perfectly  sound  fruit  for  both  constipation  and 
the  opposite  condition ;  for  sluggish  livers,  and  for  list- 
less appetites. 

So  because  fruit  is  so  beneficial,  as  well  as  delicious, 
every  house-keeper  should  adopt  all  possible  means  for 
maintaining  a  good  variety  for  the  table  the  year  round. 
Aside  from  Good  Bread,  there  is  no  item  in  Nature's 
"bill  of  fare"  that  will  so  bounteously  reward  one's 
labors  to  obtain  it. 

A  good  variety  of  Apples — especially  of  the  late-keep- 
ing sorts — with  a  barrel  of  Cranberries  (that  sound,  clean, 
brave-keeping  fruit,  that  is  such  a  blessing  to  spring-time 
tables  !)  will  go  far  in  supplying  the  family  with  whole- 
some fruit,  and,  with  a  few  cans  or  jugs  of  peaches, 
pears,  plums,  and  curl-ants,  and  the  different  sorts  of 
berries — particularly  red  and  black  raspberries,  which 
keep  their  flavor  so  perfectly — the  months  between  Decem- 
ber and  the  time  of  fresh  fruit  will  be  bountifully  bridged 


128  FARM   HOMES,    IX-DOORS   AisD   OUT-DOOBS. 

over,  and  the  family  can  have,  every  day,  a  taste  of  sum- 
mer-time. 

In  the  country  one  has  every  advantage  for  successfully 
canning  fruits.  They  can  be  gathered  at  just  the  right 
stage  of  ripeness,  and  put  up  while  perfectly  fresh.  And 
if  the  glass  cans,  wliich  are,  of  course,  nicer  than  jugs 
and  jars,  are  bought  in  quantities,  the  expense  is  not 
great,  considering  that  with  good  care  they  will  last  for 
years. 

Half- gallon  jugs,  with  wide  mouths,  can  be  used  for 
tomatoes,  currants,  blueberries,  and,  in  fact,  all  the  small 
fruits,  if  sufficient  care  is  taken  to  seal  them  up  com- 
pletely ;  and  as  they  will  not  break  when  the  hot  fruit 
is  poured  into  them,  and  need  no  *' parboiling,"  like 
glass,  it  is  considerably  less  trouble  to  use  them.  The 
corks  should  be  pressed  in  tightly  and  melted  sealing-wax 
poured  plentifully  over. 

Most  house-keepers,  however,  will  prefer  glass.  One 
can  be  sure  that  it  is  scrupulously  clean.  Also,  it  is  a 
pleasure  to  survey  the  glistening  rows  of  cans,  and  observe 
through  their  transparent  sides  how  beautifully  the 
peaches  and  strawberries  are  conducting  themselves ! 
Jugs,  however,  might  be  used  for  tomatoes,  pumpkin, 
Btring-beans,  pie-plant,  etc.,  and  even  if  the  sealing-wax 
should  sometimes  prove  treacherous,  the  loss  of  the  con- 
tents would  not  be  so  very  deplorable.  To  have  half  a 
gallon  of  Antwerp  raspberries  fermenting  over  a  cellar 
shelf  would  be  another  affair  ! 

It  is  not  necessary  that  the  canning  of  fruit  should  be 
mide  an  herculean  task.  Jars  and  jugs,  filled  every  iron- 
ing and  baking-day  through  the  fruit-season,  will  make 
up  a  large  winter  supply  without  special  conflagration  in 
the  cook-stove,  or  long  hours  of  woman-roasting. 

Always  place  glass  jars  in  a  pan  of  water  with  a  board 
beneath  them,  and  let  the  water  come  to  scalding  heat 
before  pouring  in  the  hot  fruit.    Quart  cans  are  generally 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREEARINQ.  129 

the  best  to  use,  as  if  one  becomes  cracked,  it  is  not  so 
great  a  loss. 

CANNED   FEUITS. 

Pears.— Small  pears  can  be  put  up  whole,  after  being 
pared ;  but  the  fine  large  ones  must  be  cut  in  quarters, 
and  the  cores  removed.  Scald  them  in  a  clean  syrup  of 
white  sugar  and  water,  scalding  a  few  at  a  time,  that 
they  may  keep  their  form.  When  the  jars  are  nearly 
filled,  pour  the  syrup  in  until  quite  filled,  and  put  on  the 
covers.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  clear  honey  poured  over 
canned  pears,  when  served,  improves  their  flavor. 

Strawberries. — Place  as  much  loaf  or  granulated  sugar 
in  a  preserving-kettle  as  would  make  the  strawberries 
sweet  enough  for  immediate  eating  (this  being  the  rule 
for  all  canned  fruits),  and  add  water  enough  to  keep  it 
from  burning  as  it  dissolves.  When  it  boils,  pour  m  the 
berries,  and  stir  them  gently  two  or  three  times,  so  that 
all  may  be  evenly  scalded.  Then  pour  them  into  the 
jars  and  seal. 

Peaches. — Pear  and  cut  them  in  halves.  Take  all  the 
pits,  and  boil  them  in  a  little  water  to  extract  their  flavor. 
Strain  this  water  into  the  preservmg-kettle,  and  as  it 
boils,  pour  in  the  peaches,  sprmkling  over  them  the 
necessary  amount  of  sugar.  When  well  scalded,  and 
poured  m  the  cans,  place  round  white  papers,  dipped  in 
brandy,  over  the  tops,  and  put  on  the  covers. 

Raspberries,  Blackberries,  Blueberries,  and  Currants, 
are  all  easily  canned  in  their  own  juices,  with  a  little 
water  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  to  prevent  burning. 

Plums. — These  fruits  should  be  canned  without  being 
pared — scalding  them  until  the  skins  burst  open,  in  a 
white  sugar  syrup. 

Apples. — Sometimes  early  varieties  of  apples  decay  faster 
than  it  is  possible  to  use  them.    They  can  be  easily  stewed 


130         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AI^D   OUT-DOORS. 

and  canned,  and  are  very  good  and  very  convenient  for 
spring-time  use  when  fresh  apples  are  scarce. 

CHOICE  PRESERVES. 

For  holiday  occasions  there  are  some  fruits  especially 
delectable  in  the  form  of  **  preserves,"  and  to  have  them 
in  perfection  is  an  achievement  every  housewife  may  be 
proud  of. 

If  put  up  in  self -sealing  cans  like  the  preceding  fruits, 
only  half  a  pound  of  sugar  is  required  ;  but  if  stored  in 
jars  and  bottles,  the  old  rule  of  * '  pound  for  pound  "  is 
necessary  in  order  to  prevent  fermentation. 

The  canned  preserves  are  to  be  preferred,  first,  because 
they  are  best ;  the  fruit-flavor  is  not  lost  in  an  over- 
whelming sweetness.     Secondly,  they  are  less  expensive. 

A  General  Rule. — For  four  pounds  of  fruit  put  two 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  nice  porcelain  kettle  or  sauce- 
pan, with  one  pint  of  fresh,  clear  water.  When  it  is  dis- 
solved, and  before  it  becomes  hot,  stir  into  it  the  beaten 
white  of  an  Qg^,  As  it  boils  remove  all  the  scum  as  fast 
as  it  rises  until  it  is  perfectly  clarified.  Then  put  in  a 
little  at  a  time  of  whatever  fruit  is  to  be  preserved,  boil- 
ing it  very  gently,  and  not  allowing  it  to  be  broken. 
Only  choice,  sound  fruit  should  be  used.  Have  ready 
the  glass  cans  in  a  pan  of  water  after  the  usual  manner 
of  canning.  As  the  first  is  done,  place  it  carefully  in  the 
cans,  until  all  is  scalded,  then  pour  the  syrup  in  and  seal. 

Strawberries  should  be  hardly  more  than  scalded  m  the 
syrup,  while  plums,  peaches,  apricots,  and  pears  can  re- 
main in  a  little  longer.  I  think  the  preserve  is  improved 
by  "boiling  down"  the  syrup  one-third  before  pouring 
it  over  the  fruit. 

Marmalades — A  General  Rule. — This  preparation  of 
fruit  IS  excellent  for  eatins^  witli  the  morning  dish  of 
oatmeal  and  cream  ;   or  with  milk- toast ;    or  with  rice, 


* 


BEST  FOODS— METHODS   OF   PREPAEHS-G.  131 


sago,  and  tapioca  puddings.      And  it  is  healthy  and 
toothsome  if  spread  on  children's  bread  in  place  of  butter. 

The  fruit  for  marmalades  must  be  fresh  and  well 
ripened.  Plums  and  other  pulpy  fruits  must  be  stewed 
in  a  little  water,  and  then  sifted  through  a  colander. 
Peaches,  apples  and  quinces  must  be  pared  and  sliced. 
To  every  pound  of  pulp  allow  half  a  pound  of  coffee- 
sugar,  and  set  it  to  boil  gradually,  that  it  may  not  be 
ruined  by  scorching.  From  half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  is  usually  long  enough  to  boil  the  marmalade,  but 
it  is  not  done  until  it  looks  transparent  and  becomes 
quite  firm  and  thick  when  cooled  in  a  saucer. 

Apple  marmalade  is  sometimes  improved  by  a  little 
ginger-root  pounded  and  .tied  m  a  thin  muslin  cloth,  and 
boiled  with  it. 

Small  bowls  are  nice  for  storing  marmalades  and  jellies, 
which  can  be  poured  into  them  while  hot,  and  when 
wanted  for  the  table  they  come  out  in  good  form. 

All  marmalades,  jellies,  and  jams  should  be  first  cooled 
in  the  bowls  or  glasses,  and  then  covered  with  papers  cut 
out  to  fit,  dipped  in  brandy  and  placed  directly  on  the 
fruit.  Then  paper  should  be  placed  over  the  top  and 
pasted  down  at  the  sides — while  mother's  little  boy  or 
girl  will  be  proud  to  write  labels  for  them. 

Currant  Jelly. — Have  just-ripe  fruit  fresh  from  the 
bushes.  It  is  not  necessary  to  remove  it  from  the  stems, 
but  look  it  over  carefully.  Place  about  a  pint  of  the 
fruit,  afc  a  time,  in  a  stout  cloth,  squeeze  out  the  juice, 
and  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag.  Have  ready  some 
white  sugar,  measured  in  pints  or  quarts,  boiling  and 
clarified,  in  the  preserving  kettle.  Then  for  every  pint 
of  sugar  pour  in  a  pint  of  the  strained  juice,  and  allow  it 
to  boil  until  it  will  drop  m  a  lumpy  way  from  the  spoon. 

Twenty  minutes  is  given  as  a  rule,  but  it  often  becomes 
jelly  in  less  time. 


132  FAEM   HOMES,    liT-DOOKS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

Grape  Jelly. — This  is  most  delicious  when  made 
from  the  cultivated  sorts.  The  little  Delaware  makes 
jelly  of  beautiful  color  and  rich,  aromatic  flavor.  It  is 
made  in  the  same  way  as  currant  jelly.  Wild  grapes 
make  a  jelly  that  is  excellent  for  various  things  m 
cooking. 

Apple  and  Plum  Jelly. — If  the  fresh  fruit  can  be 
crushed  in  a  press,  and  the  juice  carefully  strained,  the 
jelly  will  be  clearer  and  finer  than  when  the  fruit  is 
stewed  m  order  to  get  the  juice.  The  yellow  Crab-apple 
makes  a  deep  amber-colored  jelly,  and  the  blue  or  Dam- 
son plum  a  rich  ruby. 

To  Crystalize  Cherries y  Currants,  and  Grapes. — Select 
perfect  fruits  and  leave  them  on  their  stems.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  m  which  dip  the  fruits 
and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  for  a  few  minutes.  Then 
roll  them,  cluster  by  cluster,  m  a  dish  of  pulverized  sugar, 
and  lay  them  on  white  paper  m  a  nearly  cooled  oven,  or 
before  a  window  where  a  brisk  breeze  is  blowing.  When 
dried  put  them  away  in  a  cool,  dry  closet.  They  make  a 
very  pretty  and  delicious  dessert. 

Baked  Quinces. — Bake  sound,  ripe  ones  until  thor- 
oughly done.  When  cool,  remove  the  skms,  roll  them  in 
granulated  sugar,  place  in  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  with 
sweet  cream. 

Baked  Pears. — Good  pears  when  ripe  are  always  best 
m  their  natural  state,  but  when  they  are  hard  or  of  in- 
ferior quality,  they  can  be  prepared  after  the  recipe  for 
Baked  Quinces. 

Steamed  Sweet  Apples. — These  are  excellent  for  supper. 
Pare,  quarter,  and  core  them  ;  place  them  in  an  earthen 
dish  in  a  steamer,  cover  closely,  and  let  them  steam  un- 
til tender.  When  cold,  sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar,  and 
pour  over  them  a  pint  of  rich  milk. 

Baked  Apples. — These  are  improved  by  paring,   re- 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  133 

moving  the  core  without  splitting  them,  filling  the  cavi- 
ties with  sugar,  and  baking  them  in.  an  earthen  dish  in. 
which  is  a  cupful  of  water. 

Apple  Cream. — Pare  and  slice  six  fine  pleasantly  fla- 
vored apples  ;  steam  them,  or  stew  them  in  a  very  little 
water  until  soft  ;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar 
and  the  whites  of  four  fresh  eggs ;  beat  together  until 
light,  and  place  m  a  glass  or  tall  fruit  dish  with  cream 
poured  around. 

A  Pretty  Dish  of  Currants. — Red  and  white  currants 
can  be  placed  in  layers  m  a  clear  glass  fruit-dish  ;  or  by 
placing  pieces  of  pasteboard  between,  they  can  be  ar- 
ranged m  stripes  or  squares  on  a  flat  dish,  and  the  papers 
removed  after  it  is  filled.  Currant  leaves  should  be 
placed  around  the  edge.  A  dish  of  pulverized  sugar 
should  always  be  served  with  currants  and  berries,  that 
each  one  may  sweeten  the  fruit  to  his  own  taste. 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS. 

Spiced  Peaches. — For  seven  pounds  of  peaches  use 
three  and  a  half  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar,  one  quart 
of  the  best  vmcgar,  two  ounces  of  stick  cinnamon,  and 
one  ounce  of  whole  cloves.  Pare  the  peaches  and  stick 
three  or  four  cloves  m  each.  Boil  the  sugar,  vinegar, 
and  cinnamon  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  put  m  the 
peaches.  AVhen  tender,  remove  them  to  glass  or  stone 
jars,  boil  down  the  syrup  nearly  one-half,  and  pour  it  over 
the  peaches. 

Spiced  Currants,  Crab- Apples,  and  Green  Tomatoes. — 
These  can  be  made  by  using  the  same  proportions  of 
sugar,  \inegar,  and  spices  named  m  the  recipe  for  Spiced 
Peaches — all  being  good  relishes  to  eat  occasionally  with 
meats. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Boil  one  peck  of  npe  tomatoes  m  a 
preserving  kettle  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.     Add  one  pint 


134         FARM   HOMES,    lif-DOOES  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

of  good  cider  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  of  salt,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  two  of  allspice,  and  three  of  celery-salt.  Boil  for 
twenty  minutes  and  then  strain  and  bottle  it.  The  corks 
should  be  pressed  in  tightly  and  the  tops  covered  with 
melted  rosin  or  sealmg-wax.  The  catsup  is  improved  to 
many  tastes  by  the  addition  of  two  or  three  onions  boiled 
with  the  tomatoes. 

Salted  Cucumbers. — If  salt  is  added  to  water  until  an 
^g%  will  float  in  it,  a  brine  is  formed  that  will  keep 
cucumbers  for  almost  any  length  of  time.  They  can  be 
picked  from  the  vines  when  of  nice  size,  washed,  and 
thrown  m  the  brine  until  the  keg  or  barrel  is  filled — 
always  keeping  them  well  under  the  brine  with  some 
suitable  weight. 

Cucumber  Pichles. — If  salted  cucumbers  are  used, 
soak  them  in  frequently  changed  water  for  two  days. 
Boil  together  for  fifteen  minutes  two  quarts  of  good  vine- 
gar, one  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
and  a  piece  of  alum  as  large  as  a  bean.  Pour  it  over  the 
cucumbers  while  hot.  When  cool,  dram  off  the  vinegar, 
scald  it  and  pour  it  over  the  pickles  once  more.  In 
twenty-four  hours  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Chow-chow  Pickle. — Chop  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes 
with  four  solid  little  cabbages,  six  onions,  and  six  green 
bell-peppers.  Sprinkle  over  a  cupful  of  salt  and  let  the 
mixture  stand  over  night  m  a  large  earthen  pan  or  por- 
celain kettle.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  juice  and 
add  to  the  chop  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  English  mustard-seed,  and  a  gallon  of  vinegar.  Boil 
until  it  is  tender  and  clear,  and  then  put  it  away  in  jars 
or  wide-mouthed  bottles. 

Mixed  Pickles. — Cauliflower,  string-beans,  and  tiny 
onions  and  cucumbers,  with  a  sprinkle  of  red  cherry- 
peppers,  can  be  scalded  together,  first  in  salted  water  and 


BEST    FOOnr, — .METHODS    OF    PREPARING.  135 

then  in  vinegar,  and  put  up  in  bottles,  with  a  little  sweet- 
oil  poured  in  each  to  cover  the  tops  before  the  corks  are 
put  in. 

Pickled  Onions. — Remove  two  or  three  layers  from 
small  white  onions,  and  lay  them  m  a  strong  brme  for  a 
day  or  more.  Place  vinegar  on  the  stove  to  boil,  with  one 
or  two  bell-peppers,  or  a  handful  of  the^  cherry- peppers. 
Remove  the  onions  from  the  brme  and  pour  the  hot  vin- 
egar over  them. 

THE  VALUE   OF   MILK   AND   EGGS. 

Next  to  Bread  and  Fruit,  in  the  scale  of  Best  Foods, 
comes  Milk  in  its  various  forms — in  its  fresh,  foamy  new- 
ness, m  luscious  cream,  and  in  the  concentrations  of  but- 
ter and  cheese.  In  Milk  and  Eggs,  as  in  Bread,  exist 
nearly  all  the  qualities  needed  for  nutrition  and  growth. 
Authentic  tables  show  that  cheese  is  worth,  as  nutriment, 
three  times  as  much  as  the  same  weight  of  beef  ;  that  it 
is  "precisely  the  same  as  beef  in  its  flesh-forming  quali- 
ties ;  and,  what  is  more,  presents  itself  in  a  much  purer 
form."  Milk  is  not  only  the  food  for  "babes,"  giving 
them  flesh,  and  bone,  and  muscle,  and  blood,  and  making 
them,  with  the  help  of  warmth  and  fresh  air,  the  fair 
types  of  purity,  health,  and  beauty,  but  it  is  better  for 
grown-up  children — if  they  but  knew  it — than  the 
"strong  meat "  with  which  they  think  they  must  fortify 
themselves,  and  which  costs  so  much  more,  both  in  the 
buying  and  in  the  preparation. 

Yet  good  meats  are  a  requisite.  It  is  well  to  take 
vegetation  now  and  then,  in  the  concentrated  form  of  a 
fine  roast  of  beef,  or  leg  of  mutton  ;  while  a  fried  brook 
trout,  or  a  broiled  white  fish,  lying  in  its  fringe  of  Sara- 
toga potatoes  and  parsley,  is  never  to  be  passed  lightly 
by  !  It  is  only  in  feeling  that  meat  is  the  staple,  the 
indispensable  basis  of  good  living,  that  one  goes  wrong. 


136  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS    AND   OUT-DOORS. 

So  many  delicious  things,  not  only  delicious  to  the  pal- 
ate, but  deliciously  nourishing  to  the  whole  system,  can 
be  placed  upon  our  dining-room  tables  without  slaughter- 
ing anything  ! — ay,  and  without  diving  down  into  the 
unlovely  recesses  of  the  Pork  Barrel — that  **household 
god  "  of  the  country  which  I  would  like  to  demolish, 
no,  not  demolish,  but  cause  to  step  down  several  steps 
to  its  proper  place  below  bread,  fruit,  milk,  eggs,  beef, 
mutton,  fish,  and  vegetables  ! 

"  Pork  is  a  coarse  food  fit  only  for  coarse  people," 
snaps  our  good  Dr.  Nichols.  But  he  lives  in  a  large  city 
where  the  antecedents  of  his  pork  are  unknown,  and  he 
has  unavoidable  thoughts  about  the  insidious  trichina,  a 
touch  of  measles,  or  the  questionable  diet  on  which  so 
much  fatness  has  been  achieved. 

A  clean  pig — and  such  a  thing  is  possible  if  the  animal 
is  given  a  decent  place  to  live  m — fattened  on  one's  own 
corn,  and  slain  and  cured  by  one's  own  hands,  is  always 
a  good  item  to  have  among  one's  provision  stores.  But 
even  this  perfection  of  pork  should  form  an  occasional 
and  not  an  every-day  article  of  food. 

With  wheat,  corn,  oatmeal,  milk,  fruit,  eggs,  and  veg- 
etables to  draw  from,  country  people  can  live  on  the  finest 
foods  that  the  world  affords  ;  and  that,  too,  without  de- 
voting too  much  time  to  the  art  of  cooking.  Generally, 
the  simplest  things  are  the  best,  and  it  is  just  as  easy  to 
prepare  palatable  and  nourishing  food  as  the  reverse. 

OMELETS. 

Cream  Omelet. — Mix  smoothly  with  a  cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  add  five  well-beaten 
eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  ready  an  omelet  pan  or  a 
thick-bottomed  *' spider,"  in  which  place  a  small  lump 
of  sweet  suet-fat,  which  is  better  than  butter,  because 
less  liable  to  burn.     Have  the  pan  hot  enough  to  bake. 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  137 

but  not  to  burn  the  omelet.  Pour  in  the  eggs  and  cream, 
and  when  the  mixture  has  thickened,  but  not  hardened, 
fold  one-half  over  the  other  with  a  broad-bladed  knife, 
slip  it  upon  a  warm  platter,  and  serve.  Omelets  should 
not  be  made  until  the  meal  is  nearly  ready,  as  they  are  apt 
to  become  tough  and  leathery  if  kept  waiting  too  long. 

Ham  Omelet. — Have  ready  a  cupful  of  chopped  boiled 
ham.  Beat  together  six  eggs  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk  ;  pour  half  into  the  pan,  and  sprinkle  over  it  the 
chopped  ham.  When  the  eggs  are  partly  thickened, 
pour  In  the  remaining  portion,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to 
brown  on  the  top.  Slip  it  upon  a  round  platter  without 
folding,  and  place  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  if  they  are  to 
be  had,  around  the  edges. 

Vegetable  Omelet. — Chop  an  onion  finely  together  with 
two  crisp  heads  of  lettuce  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  stir  in  six  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 
Bake  the  same  as  Cream  Omelet. 

Cheese  Omelet. — Beat  six  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  grated 
cheese,  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  together,  and  bake 
rather  slowly. 

Sweet  Omelet. — This  is  a  specially  good  edible  for  the 
supper  table.  For  each  person,  take  one  Q^g,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
Flavor  the  omelet  with  either  extract  of  orange,  vanilla, 
or  nutmeg.  Beat  the  yolks,  sugar,  and  flour  together, 
reserving  the  whites  to  be  added  last.  Have  the  omelet- 
pan  at  proper  heat,  and  well  buttered.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  froth,  stir  all  lightly  and  quickly  together,  and  pour 
it  into  the  pan.  When  nearly  done,  set  the  pan  carefully 
into  the  oven  to  brown.  Then  slip  the  omelet  upon  a 
plate  covered  with  a  napkin,  spread  over  it  some  rasp- 
berry jam,  or  nice  preserved  fruit  of  some  sort,  fold  one 
half  over  the  other,  cover  with  another  napkin,  and  ring 
the  tea^bell !     This  recipe  has  a  fussy  sound,  but  the 


138  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

omelet  is  made  in  a  very  few  minutes,  and  will  be  pro- 
nounced delicious  by  all. 

CUSTARDS   AN^D   PUDDINGS. 

If  overdone,  all  custards  are  curdled  and  spoiled. 
They  should  be  smooth  and  creamy,  when  eaten,  and  as 
cold  as  the  ice-chest  or  cellar  can  make  them. 

Baked  Custards. — Mix  one  and  a  half  pints  of  new 
milk,  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  orange,  lemon, 
or  vanilla  extract.  Fill  the  custard-cups,  or  any  small 
tea-cups,  two-thirds  full.  Put  them  into  a  bakmg-pan 
containing  hot  water,  and  let  them  remain  m  the  oven 
until  the  custard  is  set,  remembering  that  it  will  continue 
to  cook  for  a  minute  or  two  after  being  removed  from 
the  oven.  If  liked,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  can  be  whisked 
to  a  froth,  flavored,  sprinkled  with  a  little  sugar,  and 
piled  on  top  of  the  custards  when  they  are  partly  cooled. 

Boiled  Custard. — Put  one  quart  of  new  milk  in  a 
sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  stir 
in  five  beaten  eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  ;  stir 
it  until  it  thickens  slightly,  then  remove  to  a  cool  place, 
and  add  whatever  flavoring  is  liked. 

Corn-starch  Custard. — While  a  quart  of  milk  is  heat- 
ing, beat  two  eggs  until  light,  and  stir  into  them  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  ol  corn-starch, 
and,  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  milk.  Pour  this  mixture 
gradually  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  cook  gently, 
stirring  it  all  the  while,  for  five  minutes.  Flavor  with  a 
little  extract  of  orange  or  lemon,  and  pour  it  into  the 
dish  from  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

Cocoanut  Custard. — Soak  a  cupful  of  dessicated  cocoa- 
nut  in  an  equal  quantity  of  new  milk  for  two  hours,  and 
add  it  to  the  materials  used  in  the  recipe  for  Bakod  Cus- 
tards. 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARI]S"G.  139 

Corn-starch  Pudding,  —  Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch,  mixed  with  cold  milk,  mto  three  pmts  of 
boilmg  milk  slightly  salted.  Let  it  stand  where  it  will 
cook  without  burning  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  stir  in  one 
cupful  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  with  what- 
ever flavoring  is  liked  ;  pour  the  pudding  into  a  mold, 
or  into  a  large  bowl,  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  set  it  m  a  cool  place.  When  it  is  wanted  for  the 
table,  turn  the  pudding  into  a  glass  or  earthen  dish,  and 
serve  it  with  a  fruit-sauce,  or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Tapioca  and  Sago  Puddings, — Tapioca  and  sago  make 
delicious  puddings,  especially  when  one  has  cream  and 
fruit  to  serve  with  them.  They  are  also  easily  made,  re- 
quiring but  little  time  either  in  the  preparing  or  the 
baking,  and  are  good  whether  warm  or  cold.  Stir  a  cup- 
ful of  sago  or  tapioca  that  has  soaked  several  hours  in 
cold  water  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  a  little  milk,  three 
beaten  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Stir  well,  pour  it  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  it 
twenty  minutes.  If  preferred,  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
may  be  first  covered  with  canned  apples,  peaches,  or 
pears  ;  or  a  handful  of  raisms,  soaked  m  warm  water, 
may  be  added. 

Steamed  Corn-meal  Pudding. — This  is  very  relishable 
with  a  winter  dinner  of  corned  beef  and  vegetables.  Mix 
one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  a  cupful  of  currants,  or 
chopped  raisins  (it  is  very  good,  however,  without  any 
fruit),  a  small  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  cupful  of  wheat  flour,  enough  of  com-meal 
to  form  a  thick  batter,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Pour  it  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  steam  steadily 
for  three  hours. 

Baked  Corn- Meal  Pudding. — Stir  one  cupful  of  com- 
meal  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk.     Set  it  aside  to  be- 


140          FAKM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AKD   OUT-DOOES. 

come  partly  cooled,  and  then  add  two  eggs,  four  table 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  either 
cinnamon  or  ginger,  as  preferred.  Pour  it  into  a  buttered 
dish,  turn  over  it  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
allowing  it  to  remain  on  top,  and  let  it  bake  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes.  It  should  be  partly  cooled  before  being 
served.  A  boilmg-hot  pudding  or  pie  is  a  needless  addi- 
tion to  human  woes. 

Christmas  Pudding. — Mix  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  raisins, 
three  tablespoonf  uls  of  finely  chopped  salt  pork,  one  egg, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of  nutmeg,  and 
a  pinch  of  cloves  ;  add,  lastly,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  beat  thoroughly  together,  pour  it  in  a  pudding 
dish,  and  let  it  steam  for  three  hours. 

Sauce  for  Christmas  Pudding. — Make  a  smooth  butter 
gravy,  stir  into  it  four  tablespoonf  uls  of  good  brown  sugar, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  letting  it  boil  until  clear. 

Boiled  Fruit  Pudding. — Mix  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  a  little  salt,  half  a  nutmeg, 
two  cupfuls  of  dried  currants,  chopped  raisms,  or  sliced 
sweet  apples,  enough  of  flour  for  a  stiff  batter,  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Pour  the  batter  into  a 
buttered  pail,  or  a  floured  puddmg-cloth,  and  let  it  boil 
steadily  for  three  hours  in  plenty  of  water. 

Simple  Bread  Pudding. — Pour  a  quart  of  hot  milk  upon 
a  pint  of  bread-crumbs  that  have  been  placed  in  a  but- 
tered dish  ;  add  two  eggs,  a  dust  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg, 
a  little  fruit,  if  liked,  and  bake  it  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

Simple  Bread  Pudding,  No.  2. — Dip  slices  of  stale 
bread  into  hot  water,  and  lay  them  m  a  buttered  earthen 
dish.  Into  each  slice,  press  a  few  fine  raisins  and  sprinkle 
over  a  little  cinnamon.     Beat  together  two  eggs  and  a 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF  PREPARING.  141 

pint  of  milk,  which  pour  over  the  bread,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Rice  Pudding, — Make  a  custard  of  three  cupfuls  of  new 
milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch.  Into  this  stir  one  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  teaspoonf ul  of  orange 
or  lemon  extract.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  brisk  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Have  the  Qgg  whites 
beaten,  sweetened,  and  flavored ;  spread  them  over  the 
pudding  when  it  is  done,  and  return  it  to  the  oven  for 
an  instant,  until  delicately  browned.  It  is  to  be  eaten 
with  fruit,  or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Roch  Rice — A  Pretty  Holiday  Dish.  — Boil  a  large  cupful 
of  rice  in  one  and  a  half  pints  of  new  milk,  with  a  little 
salt.  By  keeping  it  closely  covered  it  will  cook  evenly, 
and  requires  no  stirring.  Add  more  milk,  if  it  is  needed, 
before  the  rice  is  done.  When  it  is  thoroughly  cooked, 
remove  the  cover,  and  let  it  become  rather  dry ; 
then  sweeten  it  with  fine  white  sugar,  flavor  it  with 
lemon,  and  pile  it  in  a  rough,  rock-like  shape  in  a  glass 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
a  little  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  cream.  Pour  this  all  over  the  rice, 
and  turn  a  cupful  of  cream  around  the  base. 

Rice  BinVs-Nest,  for  Holidays. — Boil  rice  as  in  the 
foresfoing  recipe,  and  put  a  part  of  it  to  mold  in  six  or 
eight  egg-cups,  previously  dipped  in  cold  water.  When 
cold  slip  the  rice  ^'  eggs  "  out  into  a  low  round  dish,  and 
place  the  remainder  of  the  rice  around  them  to  form  the 
**nest,"  laying  over  it  little  strips  of  marmalade  for 
**  straws."     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

THE  BEAUTIES   OF  CREAM. 

With  a  little  tin  cream- whipper,  costing  but  a  few  cents 
at  the  hardware  stores,  and  plenty  of  cream  and  fresh 
fruit,  the  most  delicious  desserts  can  be  made  ;  and  their 


142         FARM   HOMES,    IIT-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

mtroduction  upon  farm-house  tables,  for  a  Sunday  treat, 
or  for  little  anniversary  feasts,  or  company  occasions, 
would  be  what  Barry  Gray  would  call  ^'a  good  thing," 
in  place  of  the  richer  and  more  unwholesome  dishes  of 
state-occasions. 

A  Fine  Charlotte  Russe. — Make  a  large  thin  sponge- 
cake, taking  care  to  bake  it  in  an  even  sheet  about  an  inch 
thick.  When  done  and  cooled,  cut  out  a  piece  to  fit  the 
bottom  of  a  round  dish  four  or  five  inches  deep,  and  then 
cut  regular  pieces  to  fit  around  the  sides.  Into  this  pour 
a  cream,  prepared  as  follows  :  Whip  one  pint  of  sweet 
cream,  flavored  with  orange  or  vanilla,  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  to  it  the  frothed  whites  of  two  eggs  and  a  cupful 
of  pulverized  sugar.  Stir  all  lightly  together,  pour  it 
upon  the  cake  until  the  dish  is  filled,  and  set  it  into  the 
refrigerator,  or  upon  ice  with  a  pan  turned  over  it,  until 
the  cream  is  stiffened. 

A  Simpler  Charlotte  Russe. — A  simpler  dessert  of  this 
sort  is  made  by  laying  lady-fingers  or  squares  of  sponge- 
cake around  the  sides  of  a  glass  dish,  filling  it  w4th 
whipped  cream,  and  putting  it  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 

Bavarian  Cream  (Mrs.  Henderson). — Set  a  pint  of  cream 
upon  ice  until  chilled,  then  whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth.  Boil 
a  pint  of  rich  milk,  flavored  with  extract  of  vanilla ;  re- 
move it  from  the  fire  and  add  half  a  box  of  "Cox's  Spark- 
ling Gelatine,"  that  has  soaked  for  an  hour  in  a  cupful  of 
warm  water  at  the  back  of  the  stove.  When  the  milk 
is  partly  cooled,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
When  cold  and  beginning  to  thicken,  stir  in  the  whipped 
cream  lightly,  put  it  in  a  mold,  and  set  it  on  ice  or  in 
some  cool  place. 

Wliipped  Cream  with  Fruits. — Whipped  cream  is  palat- 
able served  with  an  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  turning  the  cream 
from  a  mold  upon  a  handsome  dish,  and  surrounding  it 
with  the  fruit. 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARI]S^G.  143 

Cream  Shells. — Bake  nice  little  s]3onge  cakes  in  gem 
irons  until  quickly  and  delicately  done.  When  partly 
cool,  open  them  at  the  sides,  and  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
whipped  cream,  flavored  with  orange  or  vanilla. 

Cream  Gravy  for  Toast  and  VegetaUes. — For  a  family 
of  six,  pour  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk  and  one  cupful  of 
cream  in  a  saucepan,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
a  large  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour  with  three  of  cold  milk,  and 
stir  into  it  the  boiling  milk  ;  when  thickened,  remove  it 
from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  Qgg.  This 
is  very  much  liked  by  children  as  a  *' gravy"  for  baked 
and  boiled  potatoes,  or  when  poured  over  slices  of  toasted 
bread.  It  is  also  a  nice  dressing  for  asparagus,  green 
peas,  and  string  beans. 

A  Substitute  for  Cream. — When  cream  is  not  plenty, 
a  very  passable  substitute  can  be  made  by  pouring  a  pint 
of  hot  milk  upon  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar. 

PIES. 

There  has  been  a  great  outcry  among  food-reformers 
over  *^pie."  But  there  are  pies  and  pies  ;  and  the  latter 
sort  are  still  worth  perpetuating.  There  is  that  pie  of  the 
dark  ages,  a  thin  layer  of  spiced  fruit  between  two  sodden, 
greasy  layers  of  **  crust."  And  there  is  the  pie  of  the 
skilled  cook  of  to-day,  rich,  juicy,  self-flavored  fruits,  en- 
closed in  a  pastry  as  delicate  and  tender  as  congealed 
foam  !  Ah  !  sad  the  fafce  of  such  pie,  when  it  finds  it- 
self alone  with  a  knife  and  fork  and  a  "  crowned  head  !" 

One  important  objection  to  pie-making,  is  that  it  re- 
quires a  good  deal  of  time,  compared  with  other  prepara- 
tions of  food  ;  and  a  busy  house-keeper  had  better  rely 
on  a  good  variety  of  puddings  and  fruit  desserts,  as  a 
general  thing,  in  place  of  tliese  elaborations.  But,  if  pies 
are  made,  let  them  be  worth  while — let  them  be  good 


144         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

forms  of  food,  rather  than  laboriously  concocted  worri- 
ments  to  the  digestive  powers. 

A  Good  Paste  or  ^^  Crust, ^^ — Mix  four  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  a  little  ice-water,  or  else  water  directly  from  th 
well.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  a  little  cold  water  to  them, 
and  mix  slowly  with  the  flour  until  a  smooth,  firm  dough 
is  formed.  Eoll  it  out,  taking  pains  to  keep  it  in  square 
shape.  Have  the  butter  as  hard  and  firm  as  possible,  and 
divide  it  into  three  equal  parts.  Spread  one  part  over 
one  half  the  paste,  fold  the  other  half  over,  and  roll  out  to 
the  same  size  as  before  ;  lay  on  the  second  portion  of  but- 
ter, fold  and  roll ;  then  use  the  remaming  butter  in  the 
same  way.  Have  the  fruit  in  readiness,  and  the  oven  at 
a  brisk,  but  not  scorching  heat.  Work  rapidly  and  handle 
the  dough  as  little  as  possible,  setting  a  part  of  it  near 
the  ice  until  it  is  wanted.  The  secret  of  tender  and 
**  fluffy"  paste  is  to  have  it  as  cold  as  possible,  and  the 
oven  briskly  hot  when  the  pie  is  put  in  to  bake.  The 
best  of  butter  should  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Poor 
butter  cannot  be  used  successfully  in  any  branch  of 
cookery. 

Another  Paste. — If  it  is  warm  weather,  and  one  has  no 
ice,  this  paste  can  be  made.  It  will  be  found  light  and 
tender.  First  prepare  the  fruit,  and  have  the  oven  heated. 
Mix  a  large  teaspoonful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  in  three 
pints  of  sifted  flour.  Into  this  rub  one  cupful  of  butter, 
and  add  enough  of  cold  sweet  milk  to  form  the  dough. 
Put  it  on  the  plates  with  as  little  handling  as  possible. 
If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the 
bottom-crust  before  the  fruit  is  put  in,  to  prevent  it  be- 
coming soaked  and  sodden. 

Apple  Pie,  No.  1. — Slice  nice  tart  apples,  and  make  the 
•pies  with  upper  and  under-crusts,  merely  putting  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  in  each.    When  baked,  remove  the  top- 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARIKG.  145 

orust,  sprinkle  over  the  apples  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
few  bits  of  butter,  and,  if  liked,  a  dust  of  cinnamon. 
Replace  the  crust,  cover  with  a  napkin,  and  serve,  when 
partly  cooled,  with  a  white  cream  over  each  piece. 

Apple  Pie,  No.  2. — Stew  about  a  dozen  pippins,  or  green- 
ings, in  a  very  Uttle  water.  When  soft,  stir  in  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Prepare  two 
pie-plates  with  an  under-crust  and  rimmed  edges,  fill 
them  with  apples,  and  bake. 

Custard  Pie. — Use  deep  earthen  plates,  and  line  them 
with  a  rather  thick  paste.  For  one  pie,  beat  two  eggs 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  together,  add  two  cof- 
fee cupfuls  of  rich  milk,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the 
top  after  it  is  poured  in  the  paste.  Remove  it  from  the 
oven  a  minute  or  two  before  it  is  quite  firm,  as  it  will  con- 
tinue to  thicken  with  its  own  heat,  and  three  minutes 
over-cooking  spoils  it. 

Cream  Pie. — For  one  pie,  use  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
two  cupfuls  of  sweet  cream,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  beaten  thoroughly  together.  Bake  it  in  an  under- 
crust  only. 

Mock-Cream  Pie. — Make  a  quart  of  corn-starch  custard, 
stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  vanilla 
or  orange  extract,  and  bake  the  same  as  Custard  and  Cream 
Pie. 

Orange  Pie. — Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  with  one 
of  sugar  ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  fine  orange.  Just  before  filling  the  paste, 
stir  in  the  egg-whites  beaten  to  a  froth. 

Lemon  Pie. — Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
smoothly  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  pour  into  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  to  prevent  burning.  Add 
a  bit  of  nice  butter,  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  partly  cooled  stir  into  it  a  beaten 
Qg^,  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon.     Bake  the  same 

^  7 


146  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

as  Custard  and  Cream  Pie.  Some  cooks  whisk  and  flavor 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  spread  them  on  the  top  when 
the  pie  is  done,  letting  it  remain  in  the  oven  a  moment 
to  brown. 

Rhuharl)  Pie. — Have  deep  plates  for  this  pie,  and 
sprinkle  the  under-crust  with  a  little  flour  before  filling 
with  fruit.  Peel  and  cut  the  stalks  into  small  bits,  and 
fill  the  plates,  first  with  a  layer  of  fruit  and  then  a  layer 
of  sugar,  until  they  are  well  heaped  up  in  the  center. 
Sprinkle  more  flour  over  the  top,  and  pinch -the  top  crust 
well  down  over  the  edges,  as  the  charm  of  this  pie,  aside 
from  plenty  of  sugar,  consists  in  its  retainment  of  all  its 
juice. 

Pumphin  Pie. — This,  like  the  celebrated  little  girl  in 
the  rhyme,  can  be  "very  good,  indeed,"  or  it  can  be 
"  horrid."  When  I  want  to  make  the  richest,  creamiest, 
and  altogether  loveliest  pumpkin  pies,  I  use  squash.  But 
as  squash  pies  are  never  celebrated  in  rhyme,  or  made  to 
figure  in  country  romances,  I  permit  them  to  be  called 
Pumpkin  Pies.  One  can  be  sure  of  sweet  fine-grained 
squashes  always  ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  even  the  best- 
intentioned  pumpkins  will  sometimes  prove  stringy  and 
flavorless.  • 

Stew  the  squash  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, and  pass  it  through  a  colander.  For  each  pie,  beat 
together  one  egg^  three  tablespoonf uls  of  sweet  cream,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  squash,  half  a  cupful  of  light-brown 
sugar,  a  coffee-cupful  of  new  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  ginger  and  cinnamon,  and  a  dust  of  nutmeg. 

Have  rather  deep  plates,  lined  with  good,  tender,  but 
not  too  rich  paste.  Fill  them  to  the  depth  of  an  inch,  or 
a  little  more,  and  bake  in  a  rather  moderate  oven  until 
slightly  browned. 

If  pumpkin  is  used,  I  would  advise  another  egg  to  each 
pie,  and  less  pumpkin. 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  147 

Mince  Pie. — Even  a  mince  pie  can  be  made  that  will 
not  bring  to  one's  slumbers  painful  visions  of  great  grand- 
mothers. Suet,  and  citron,  and  brandy,  are  all  abomina- 
tions, and  really  add  nothing  to  the  good  flavor  of  the  pie. 

For  one  quart  of  finely  chopped  beef,  use  three  quarts 
of  finely  chopped  tart  apples,  two  cupfuls  of  raisins,  cut 
in  halves,  one  cupful  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg, and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  If  the  meat  was 
not  salted  when  boiled,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Place  the  chop  in  a  preserving-kettle,  or  large  earthen 
pan,  upon  the  stove,  and  mix  v  ith  it  two  cupfuls  of  good 
syrup,  one  cupful  of  either  boiled  cider,  or  currant  or  grape 
jelly,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  enough  of  water  in 
which  the  beef  was  boiled  to  make  the  mixture  sufficiently 
juicy.  Let  it  scald  up  together,  and  it  will  be  ready  for 
filling  the  pies.  Pastry  recipe.  No.  2,  will  be  good  to  use 
on  this  occasion. 

Hasty  Pie. — For  a  good  and  easily  prepared  dessert, 
place  any  kind  cf  fresh  or  canned  fruit  in  the  bottom  of 
an  earthen  dish,  to  the  depth  of  two  inches.  Beat  to- 
getlier  one  q^^,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a 
small  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  cupful  of  flour,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder.  Pour  or  spread  this  evenly 
over  the  fruit  (which,  to  hasten  matters,  may  set  on  the 
stove  while  the  batter  is  being  prepared),  and  bake  until 
the  crust  is  well  done.  It  may  be  eaten  with  a  pudding- 
sauce,  or  with  milk  and  sugar. 

CAKE. 

Sponge  Cake. — It  is  no  easy  matter  to  make  perfect 
sponge  cake,  but  on  holidays  or  company  occasions  it  is 
worth  while  to  make  it.  It  is  not  only  delicious,  but  it 
is  entirely  wholesome,  something  which  can  not  be  said 
of  all  cake.     Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  ten  eggs  sep- 


148  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AKD   OUT-DOOSS. 

arately  for  half  an  hour  [the  cook  must  have  an  assistant 
in  this  part  of  the  formula],  one  and  a  half  cupful  of 
fine  pulverized  white  sugar  to  be  mixed  with  the  j^olks. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  lightly  together,  and  stir  in 
another  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cup- 
f uls  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  grated  rind  and  half  the  juice 
of  a  good-sized  lemon.  Have  ready  a  smooth,  deep  bis- 
cuit-pan, lined  with  white,  buttered  paper,  and  the  oven 
moderately  hot.  Pour  in  the  batter,  and,  if  possible,  do 
not  move  it  after  placing  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  done. 
The  heat  may  be  increased  after  the  first  ten  minutes. 
When  removed  from  the  oven,  spread  over  it  a  thin  icing 
flavored  with  a  little  extract  of  lemon. 

Orange  Cake. — Mix  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls 
of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs, 
and  the  whites  of  three,  a  little  salt,  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  an  orange,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  all  thoroughly  together,  with  the  exception  of  the 
flour  and  baking  powder,  which  add  lastly.  Bake  this 
in  four  jelly-tins,  and  spread  between  the  cakes  an  icing 
made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  a 
little  juice  of  an  orange,  and  enough  of  powdered  white 
sugar  to  make  it  rather  stiff. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. — This  can  be  made  and  baked  in  a  few 
minutes,  and  is  sometimes  eaten  warm,  with  a  pudding 
sauce,  as  a  dessert  for  dinner.  Beat  four  eggs  with  a 
teacupful  of  white  sugar,  a  scant  tcacupful  of  sifted 
flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  orange  extract,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  it  in  a  thin,  even 
sheet  in  a  quick  oven  ;  turn  it  out,  bottom  side  up,  on  a 
napkin  ;  spread  it  with  thick  grape  or  currant  jelly,  and 
roll  it,  beginning  at  the  end. 

Corn-starch  Cake. — This  is  very  nice  if  not  eaten  later 
than  twenty-four  hours  after  it  is  baked.  Cream  one 
cupful  of  powdered  white  sugar,  with  half  a  cupful  of 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OE   PREPARING.  149 

butter,  and  stir  into  it  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and 
two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  corn-starch.  Then  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  five  eggs,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  extract  of 
rose,  and  a  cupful  of  flour  in  which  is  mixed  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  rather  gradually  in  a 
paper-lined  cake-tin.  A  thin  icing,  flavored  with  a  few 
drops  of  rose,  may  be  spread  on  top.  This  delicate,  snow- 
white  cake  looks  nicely  along  with  contrasting  squares  of 
golden  sponge  oake. 

Lady  Fingers, — Mix  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
white  sugar,  four  eggs — the  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately — six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon,  orange,  or  vanilla.  Beat  the 
batter  for  ten  minutes  ;  roll  some  rather  stiff  paper  into 
a  tunnel,  and  pour  the  batter  through  it  upon  buttered 
pans  in  long,  slender  little  cakes.  Dust  a  little  sugar 
over  them,  and  bake  as  quickly  as  possible  without 
scorching. 

Alum  Gingerhread. — Put  a  bit  of  alum  the  size  of  a 
walnut  in  a  cake-bowl,  and  pour  upon  it  a  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.  When  nearly  cool,  add  half  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter, two  cupfuls  of  syrup,  a  tablcspoonful  of  ginger,  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  so^a,  and  enough  flour  for  rolling. 

Flai7i  Gingerbread. — Mix  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
of  boiling  water,  a  tablcspoonful  of  butter,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  ginger,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
Boda.     Pour  the  batter  in  a  thick  tin,  and  bake  slowly. 

Bread  Cake. — Mix  three  cupfuls  of  light  and  sweet 
bread-sponge,  one  small  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of 
light  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  chopped  rais- 
ins, a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  flour,  to  which  is  added  a  large  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Let  it  stand  near  the  stove  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  before  placing  it  in  the  oven,  and  let  it 
bake  rather  slowly. 


150  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

Tea  Cakes.— ^^^t  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of 
sweet  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
flour  enough  to  roll  out  easily  in  a  very  thin  sheet ;  cut 
in  squares,  fry  in  boiling  lard,  and  sprinkle  over  a  little 
fine,  white  sugar. 

Doughnuts — These  will  not  absorb  fat.  They  are 
made  with  two  eggs,  a  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  a  coffee- 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  half  a  nutmeg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  just  flour  enough  to 
roll  out ;  avoid  a  stiff  dough.  Fry  in  boiling  lard,  in 
twists  or  rings. 

Cream  Cake. — Set  upon  the  stove  a  saucepan  contain- 
ing a  cupful  of  cream  and  a  cupful  of  milk  ;  when  the 
milk  boils,  stir  into  it  three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  the  milk  un- 
til the  flour  is  well  cooked,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  Make 
a  batter  after  the  recipe  for  Corn-starch  Cake  ;  bake  it 
in  four  or  five  jelly-tins,  and  spread  the  above  cream  be- 
tween. 

Christmas  Cookies. — Mix  one  cupful  of  white  sugar 
and  half  a  cupful  of  butter  creamed  together ;  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  one  tedfepoonful  extract  of  rose,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  When  flour  is  added,  and 
the  dough  rolled  out  in  a  thin  sheet,  sprinkle  all  over  it 
some  granulated  sugar  (a  flour-dredge  should  be  used) ; 
cut  out  the  cookies,  and  bake  them  without  browning. 
If  the  sugar  is  properly  coarse,  they  will  sparkle  like 
frost-work. 

HOME-MADE   CANDIES,    ETC. 

Cream  Candy. — Place  a  large  cupful  of  white  sugar  in 
a  porcelain  or  granitized  kettle,  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  and  let  it  dissolve  at  the  back  of  the  stove ;  then 


BEST    FOODS — METHODS    OF    PREPARING.  151 

set  it  forward,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  will  crisp  in  water. 
Stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  rose  or  vanilla  extract,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  cream- of -tartar.  Pour  it  into  a  buttered 
pan  or  platter,  and  when  cool,  work  it  until  it  is  per- 
fectly white  ;  cut  it  in  little  squares,  and  set  it  away  to 
dry. 

Horehound  Candy. — Dissolve  one  pound  of  white  sugar 
in  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  until  it  threads  or  crisps. 
Flavor  it  with  extract  of  horehound,  pour  it  into  buttered 
pans,  and  finish  like  Cream  Candy. 

Molasses  Candy. — Mix  one  pint  of  molasses,  a  small 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  If  flavored  with 
ginger  or  horehound,  it  is  good  for  children's  coughs. 
Boil,  and  finish  the  same  as  the  above. 

Peppermint  Drops. — A  cupful  of  white  sugar  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  should  be  boiled  briskly,  stirring 
it  all  the  while,  until  it  is  nearly  ready  to  grain,  when 
add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  peppermint ;  boil  a 
moment  longer,  and  drop  it  in  littb  pats  on  buttered 
white  paper. 

CrystaUzed  Pop-corn  and  Nuts. — Boil  one  cupful  of 
white  sugar  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  one  of 
butter,  until  it  shows  threads  when  dropped  from  the 
spoon.  Then  pour  in  three  quarts  of  freshly- made  pop- 
corn ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  distributed, 
and  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  Nut-meats  can  be  used  in 
place  of  pop-corn,  and  will  be  found  delicious. — From 
** Golden  Rule." 

Pop-corn  Balls. — Grind  rather  finely  two  quarts  of 
popped  corn,  and  stir  it  into  a  boiling  syrup  made  of  a 
cupful  of  white  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
When  partly  cooled,  form  into  balls,  and  roll  them  in 
pulverized  sugar. 


152  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS    AXD   OUT-DOORS. 

SOUPS. 

Soup  is  another  form  of  food  rarely  seen  on  farm-house 
tables,  partly  because  of  the  distance  from  butchers' 
stalls,  and  partly  because  the  people  have  a  vague  idea 
that  it  IS  *'  sloppy  "  and  of  no  account.  Doubtless  many 
a  farmer  would  turn  away  from  a  bowl  of  delicious  broth, 
but  would  cheerfully  tackle  the  joint  or  the  fowl  that 
made  the  broth,  and  gave  up  the  greater  part  of  its  best 
qualities  to  it. 

In  boiling  meat,  the  farm-wife  often  throws  out  most 
of  its  nutriment  to  the  pigs  or  into  the  slop-drain,  and 
triumphantly  carries  to  the  dining-room  the  impover- 
ished joint  now  despoiled  of  half  its  worth. 

Let  these  people  think  twice  about  this  matter. 

Various  kinds  of  palatable  and  nutritious  soups  can  be 
made  without  any  meat  whatever,  although  nearly  all 
soups  are  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little  *^  stock," 
as  the  water  in  which  fresh  meats  have  been  boiled  is 
called.  Nearly  all  children  like  soup,  and  with  good 
bread  and  fruit  it  is  far  healthier  for  them  than  fried  or 
fat  meats,  with  the  too  common  accompaniments  of  pie 
and  cake. 

Green-corn  Soup. — Take  about  ten  fine,  tender  ears  of 
sweet-corn  ;  grate  them,  not  too  closely  to  the  cob,  and 
scald  up  cobs  and  corn  together  in  a  quart  of  boiling, 
salted  water.  This  secures  the  milk  that  otherwise 
would  remain  in  the  cobs.  After  ten  minutes,  remove 
the  cobs,  and  pour  in  a  quart  of  new  milk  ;  season  with 
Bait  and  butter  and  a  little  pepper,  and  let  it  cook  gently 
for  ten  minutes  more. 

Pea  Soup. — In  the  morning,  put  a  pint  of  split  peas  in 
two  quarts  of  water,  and  let  them  stew  about  four  hours, 
or  until  soft ;  then  throw  in  these  vegetables,  cut  iri 
email  pieces  :  Two  carrots,  two  parsnips,  half  a  ruta- 
baga, a  small  onion,  and  three  potatoes,  adding  water 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PEEPAEIN^G.  153 

enough  to  make  good  the  quantity  that  has  evaporated 
during  the  four  hours.  Let  the  soup  boil  for  half  an 
hour,  then  strain  it  through  a  colander,  mashing  the 
peas  and  vegetables  through  with  a  spoon.  Season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream 
just  before  carrying  it  to  the  table. 

Becm  Soup. — Put  a  pint  of  beans,  with  a  shin  or  a 
pound  of  lean  beef,  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water,  and  let 
them  stew  gently  all  the  forenoon.  An  onion  can  be 
added  if  it  is  liked.  At  noon,  remove  the  meat,  mash 
the  beans  if  they  are  not  already  pulpy,  add  enough  water 
to  make  two  quarts  of  soup,  season  with  salt  and  a  little 
pepper,  and  pour  it  in  a  tureen  upon  slices  of  toasted 
brown  bread. 

Potato  Soup. — Thinly  slice  four  or  five  nice  potatoes  ; 
pour  upon  them  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water.  After 
stewing  ten  minutes  they  will  be  soft.  Then  add  a  pint 
of  rich  milk,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rolled  crackers.     Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Vegetable  Oyster,  or  Salsify  Soup. — Make  the  same 
as  Potato  Soup,  and  serve  with  little  crackers  and  mixed 
pickles. 

Tomato  Soup, — Peel  and  slice  ten  ripe  tomatoes;  boil 
them  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  add  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  rolled  cracker  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  bit  of  soda 
the  size  of  a  bean,  half  a  cupful  of  butter  ;  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  quart  of  rich  milk.    Let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 

Mutton  Broth. — Remove  the  fat  from  a  quart  of  water 
in  which  a  leg  of  mutton  or  lamb  has  been  boiled,  and 
add  two  cupfuls  of  clear  water,  a  handful  of  rice,  a  stalk 
of  celery,  and  an  onion  cut  in  halves.  Simmer  half  an 
hour,  remove  vegetables,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Soup, — Cut  up  two  chickens,  or  one  good- 
sized  fowl,  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a  pound  of  veal 
and  three  pints  of  water.     Boil  gently  for  two  hours. 


154         FARM  HOMES,    IN-DOOKS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

Take  the  kettle  to  the  kitchen  table,  and  remove  the  fat 
from  the  top  ;  strain  the  soup  through  a  colander,  and 
add  to  it  half  a  cupful  of  rice  and  a  little  parsley.  Let  it 
simmer  for  half  an  hour,  adding  water  to  replace  what 
may  have  boiled  away  ;  season  with  salt  and  a  little  white 
pepper,  and  just  before  it  is  served,  pour  in  a  cup/ul  of 
sweet  cream.     The  chickens  can  be  used  for  a  salad. 

PalataUe  Soup  for  a  Sick  Person. — Cut  a  pound  of 
lean  beef  or  mutton  in  small  bits,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  pints  of  cold  water ;  cover  it,  not  too 
closely  ;  let  it  come  to  simmering  heat,  and  remain  cook- 
ing until  the  water  is  reduced  to  little  more  than  a  pint. 
Toast  a  slice  of  bread  slowly,  until  it  is  browned  clear 
through,  but  not  at  all  burned  ;  put  it  in  the  sauce-pan 
with  the  meat,  and  let  it  remain  ten  minutes  ;  then  strain 
the  soup,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  a  very  little  Cayenne 
pepper. 

Veal  Soup. — Put  one  onion,  half  a  cupful  of  rice 
or  pearl  barley,  and  a  knuckle  of  veal,  with  the  bones 
broken,  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  to  simmer  slowly 
for  two  hours  and  a  half.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper.  Pour  this 
into  the  soup  ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  pour  it  through 
a  colander  into  a  tureen,  and  serve. 

Plain  Beef  Soup. — This  soup  requires  longer  time  than 
any  other.  Six  hours  or  more  of  gentle  simmering  (and 
soup-meats  should  never  be  boiled  in  any  other  way)  will 
do  it  no  harm.  Put  a  good  beef  shin,  or  three  pounds 
off  the  neck,  in  a  gallon  of  cold  water,  and  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  set  the  kettle  at  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it 
will  cook  very  moderately  through  the  forenoon.  About 
forty  minutes  before  it  is  wanted,  add  six  potatoes,  one 
turnip,  two  carrots,  and  an  onion,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Just  before  serving,  mix  two  tablespoonf uls  of  flour  very 


BEST  EOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARIN-G.  I55 

smoothly  in  a  little  cold  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  some  pepper,  and  stir  it  mto  the  soup,  letting  it  boil 
two  or  three  minutes  longer.  The  meat  should  be  placed 
on  a  platter,  in  this  instance,  and  the  soup  and  vegeta- 
bles poured  into  a  tureen. 

Oyster  Soup. — Put  the  oysters,  with  their  own  liquor, 
in  the  soup  kettle,  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  in  pro- 
portion with  the  quantity  of  soup  to  be  made.  When 
they  begin  to  bubble,  pour  boiling  milk  and  water  over 
them,  and  let  the  soup  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 

Seasonings  for  Soups. — The  best  kind  of  pepper  to  use 
for  soups,  or  nearly  everything  else  in  which  pepper  is 
used,  is  pure  Cayenne,  which  is  a  tonic  in  itself ;  and 
next  to  Cayenne,  the  white  pepper,  which  even  a  country 
house-keeper  can  obtain  if  she  will  keep  it  in  her  mind 
when  she  does  her  next  town  shopping.  It  is  rarely  sold 
in  country  stores.  Celery-salt  is  another  excellent  item 
to  remember ;  while  parsley,  onions,  and  salsify  can  be 
kept  always  at  hand. 

SALADS. 

Salads  are  appetizing,  wholesome,  and  refreshing.  Be- 
sides, they  cost  next  to  nothing.  But  are  they  not  almost 
as  rare  in  the  country  as  Bavarian  creams  and  soups  ? 

Simple  salads  can  be  made  by  every  one.  If  of  vegeta- 
bles, they  should  always  be  placed  on  the  table  freshly 
made  ;  and  it  takes  but  an  extra  minute  to  arrange  them 
in  pretty  form. 

Plain  Dressing  for  Salads. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  with  five  tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard. 
Add  a  little  salt,  a  bit  of  butter,  or,  if  liked,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  olive  oil,  and  stir  all  together  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  until  a  smooth  dressing  is  formed  of  the  consis- 


loG         PARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

tency  of  cream.     This  is  good  with  chopped  cabbage, 
fresh  lettuce,  and  various  kinds  of  salad. 

French  Salad  Dressing. — Mix.a  saltspoonful  of  salt  with 
one  of  pepper  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  and  two  of  vinegar.  When 
well  mixed  put  in  the  salad,  and  stir  well  together. 

Lettuce  Salads. — Choose  tender  little  heads,  and  lay 
small  radishes  or  nasturtium  blossoms  around  them. 
Plain  dressing. 

2.  Lettuce  and  young  onions,  cut  finely,  and  mixed 
with  plain  salad  dressing  will  be  generally  liked. 

3.  A  pretty  salad  is  made  by  laying  slices  of  cold  boiled 
beets  around  the  edge  of  a  dish,  and  filling  the  center 
with  fresh  lettuce  heads. 

4.  Another  variation  is  a  dish  of  lettuce,  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs  sliced  and  laid  over  the  top. 

Cabbage  Salad ,  No.  1. — Place  a  saucepan  on  the  stove 
containing  one  cupful  of  good  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  of 
white  sugar,  a  bit  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard.  When  it  boils  up,  pour 
it  over  five  cupf uls  of  chopped  cabbage. 

Cabbage  Salad ,  No.  2. — Mix  chopped  cabbage,  lettuce, 
pepper-grass,  and  a  small  onion  together,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  salt,  place  in  a  broad  bowl  or  salad-dish,  lay 
sliced  eggs  on  the  top,  and  pour  over  a  cupful  of  vinegar. 

Raw  cabbage,  chopped  fine  and  agreeably  seasoned,  is  an 
appetizing  and  healthful  relish  ;  but  when  cooked,  and 
especially  when  boiled  along  with  fat  meats,  it  is  quite  the 
reverse,  and  the  human  stomach  should  not  often  be  bur- 
dened with  it. 

Potato  Salad. — Mix  thinly-sliced  cold,  boiled  potatoes 
and  young  onions,  sometimes  adding  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  and  pour  over  them  a  French  Salad  dressing. 

Ham  Salad. — Mix  cold,  boiled  ham  with  liar  ^-boiled 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARIifG.  157 

eggs,  in  the  proportion  of  about  half  and  half.  Pour  over 
it  a  plain  salad  dressing,  an(i  place  around  the  edges  fresh 
lettuce  or  leaves  of  parsley. 

Sjnnach,  No.  1. — Boil  the  spinach  twenty  minutes,  drain 
off  the  water  and  chop  finely  with  a  knife.  Return  the 
kettle  or  saucepan  to  the  fire,  with  a  little  butter  and  salt, 
and  let  it  remain,  without  scorching,  until  it  is  quite  dry. 
Dip  a  deep  dish,  a  bowl  will  answer,  in  cold  water,  press, 
the  spinach  into  it,  and  then  turn  it  out  upon  a  plate,  and 
place  sliced  eggs  over  and  around  it. 

Spinach,  No.  2. — After  boiling,  chopping,  and  season- 
ing the  spinach,  as  aljove,  remove  the  saucepan  to  the 
kitchen- table,  and  stir  into  it  a  dressing  made  of  one 
cupful  of  cream,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little  pepper,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard. 

Spinach  is  very  good  with  nearly  all  kinds  of  meat,  and 
is  particularly  good  with  boiled  ham  and  corned  beef. 

Chicken  Salad. — Cut  the  meat  neatly  from  two  tender 
roasted  chickens,  and  chop  with  a  bunch  of  celery  and 
some  sprigs  of  .parsley.  Sprinkle  over  salt,  a  little  white 
or  Cayenne  pepper,  and  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  oil. 
Let  this  stand  two  or  three  hours,  then  place  it  on  a  plate 
or  salad  dish  in  the  midst  of  fresh  lettuce  or  parsley  leaves, 
and  pour  over  it  a  salad-dressing, 

FISH. 

BaTced  Fish. — A  good-sized  fish  of  any  sort  is  especially 
fine  when  baked.  Cut  the  fish  open  from  head  to  tail ; 
clean  and  wipe  it  dry ;  fill  it  with  a  stuffing  made  of  chop- 
ped bread,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sage  ;  wind  it  with  twine ;  lay  it 
in  a  baking-pan  on  a  grate  or  tin,  to  keep  it  from  touch- 
ing the  water,  and  pour  salted  water  into  the  pan  with 
which  to  baste  it.  The  ove.n  must  be  hot  enough  at  first 
to  crisp  the  fish  ;  afterward  it  may  bake  more  moderately 


158         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  the 
size.  Serve  it  with  a  butter-gravy,  to  which  is  sometimes 
added  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  boiled  eggs. 

Boiled  Fish. — If  one  lives  in  the  vicinity  of  the  sea, 
lakes,  or  streams,  where  fine  fish  abound,  a  *' fish-kettle" 
should  be  added  to  one's  kitchen  supplies.  They  are  of 
oval  shape,  and  have  stramers  fitting  the  mside,  in  which 
a  fish  can  be  boiled  or  fried  (immersed  in  boiling  lard) 
without  being  broken  in  the  least.  A  passable  subst^Ai te, 
in  boiling  fish,  is  to  lay  it  in  a  circle  upon  a  plate,  and 
tie  the  plate  in  a  napkin,  by  which  it  can  be  lifted  out 
without  breaking  the  fish. 

Fresh- water  fish  are  improved  by  being  soaked  for  a 
while  in  cold  salted  water,  and  being  boiled  with  a  bag 
containing  sliced  carrots,  an  onion,  a  little  celery,  and  some 
cloves  and  peppers.  Some  cooks  add  half  a  cupful  of 
vinegar  to  the  water. 

Fried  Fish. — Wipe  the  fish,  brush  it  over  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  roll  it  in  grated  crackers,  corn-meal, 
or  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  lay  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  lard. 
The  lard  must  be  hot  enough  to  immediately  crisp  the 
fish,  and  deep  enough  to  float  it.  None  of  the  fat  will 
be  absorbed,  and  the  fish  will  come  out  beautifully  browned, 
and  well  done  in  every  way.  If  care  is  taken  not  to  scorch 
the  lard,  it  can  be  used  for  several  fish-days.  This  man- 
ner of  cooking  is  far  superior  to  the  commoner  frying- 
pan  method. 

Broiled  Fish. — A  double  wire  broiler  is  best  for  fish, 
as  it  can  be  turned  without  disturbing  it.  A  large  fish 
should  be  split,  or  have  gashes  cut  across  its  sides. 
The  coals  should  be  clear  and  hot,  and  the  broiler  turned 
in  time  to  prevent  all  burning.  (The  fish  may  first  be 
rubbed  inside  with  salt,  and  sprinkled  with  a  little  lemon- 
juice).  Have  a  warm  platter  ready,  with  a  bit  of  butter, 
and  some  salt  and  pepper  in  the  bottom  of  it.     As  soon 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  159 

as  the  fish  is  done,  lay  it  upon  the  platter,  sprinkle  over 
it  some  salt,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven 
until  the  butter  is  melted. 

Boiled  Fresh  Cod. — Cut  it  in  slices,  and  boil  it  in  salted 
water,  in  which  is  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  grated  horse-radish.  Serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  with 
an  oyster  sauce. 

Codfish  Calces. — Mix  one  cupful  of  boiled  and  mashed 
salt  codfish  with  three  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  small 
chopped  onion,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Form  into  small  cakes,  and  brown 
them  on  a  griddle,  or  drop  them  into  boiling  lard. 

Codfish  arid  Cream. — Pick  the  codfish  into  small  feathery 
bits,  removing  all  particles  of  bone,  and  let  it  soak  in  cold 
water  for  two  hours.  If  for  breakfast,  it  can  stand  all 
night.  Drain  off  the  water,  pour  over  the  fish  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  new  milk,  and  set  the  saucepan  at  the  back  of  the 
stove,  where  it  may  slowly  arrive  to  simmering  heat.  After 
it  has  gently  cooked  for  ten  minutes,  add  to  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  mixed  smoothly  in  half  a  cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  and  let  it  boil  up  for  a  moment.  Then  remove  it 
from  the  stove,  stir  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  it  is  ready  to  dish. 

Broiled  Salt  Cod. — Soak  nice  white  strips  of  the  fish 
for  several  hours,  in  cold  water,  dry  them  with  a  cloth, 
and  lay  them  over  clear  hot  coals  on  a  broiler  that  has 
been  rubbed  with  suet.  Brown  the  fish  nicely  on  both 
sides,  remove  it  to  a  warm  platter,  and  lay  upon  each  piece 
a  little  fresh  butter.  A  fringe'of  fried  potatoes  is  a  good 
accompan  iment. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Put  two  quarts  of  oysters  in  a  col- 
ander to  drain.  Roll  a  dozen  crackers  fine,  or  grate  half 
a  loaf  of  stale  bread.  Butter  a  deep  earthen  dish,  and 
fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  oysters  and  crumbs,  season- 
ing the  oysters  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  leaving 


160  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOOES. 

bread  crumbs  on  top.     Pour  over  the  oyeter  liquor,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

Fried  Oysters. — Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  two 
dozen  large  oysters,  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place  for 
twenty  minutes.  Have  ready  beaten  eggs,  rolled  crackers, 
and  a  kettle  of  boihng  lard.  Roll  the  oysters  first  in 
crumbs,  then  in  the  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again  [this 
makes  an  adhesive  coating],  and  drop  them  into  the  boil- 
ing lard.  When  well  browned,  lemove  them  with  a 
skimmer,  letting  them  drain  a  moment,  and  carry  them 
to  the  table  on  a  warm  platter. 

Roasted  Canned  Oysters. — These  are  very  "comfort- 
ing," in  winter,  after  a  long  sleigh-ride,  or  on  coming 
home  chilled — and,  as  a  general  thing,  hungry — from  a 
concert  or  lecture.  They  can  be  cooked  on  the  dining- 
room  coals,  and  a  plate  of  crackers  and  a  pint  of  bottled 
cider,  gently  warmed  before  the  fire,  form  an  accompani- 
ment that  gives  no  one  any  trouble. 

Make  an  opening  in  the  end  of  the  can,  put  in  salt  and 
pepper,  bend  the  tin  back  into  place,  and  set  the  can  upon 
the  coals.  When  it  has  bubbled  over  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  the  oysters  are  done,  and  can  be  emptied  out 
upon  a  hot  platter,  and  have  a  little  lemon  juice  sprinkled 
over  them.     If  well  roasted,  they  will  be  found  delicious. 

Steiued  Oysters, — Have  ready  a  quart  of  boiling  milk. 
Scald  one  quart  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  skim  them, 
season  wuth  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  put  them  in  a  tureen, 
and  pour  milk  over. 

A   FEW   GOOD  SAUCES  FOR  FISH   AND  MEATS. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce,  for  Roast  Beef  and  Beefsteahs.-^ 
Mix  half  a  cupful  of  grated  horse-radish,  the  same  oi 
grated  cracker,  one  cupful  of  cream,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.     Simmer  together  for  twelve  minutes. 


BEST  FOObS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  161 

Sauce  for  Broiled  Meats  and  Fish. — Mix  together  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  it 
over  steaks  while  they  are  hot,  and  place  in  the  oven  for 
a  moment. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb. — Put  one  cupful  of  vine- 
gar, two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  four  of  chopped 
mint  in  the  gravy-boat,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours  before 
it  is  used. 

Oyster  Sauce  for  Roast  Turkey. — Boil  up  two  dozen 
small  oysters  m  a  pint  of  drawn  butter. 

Drawn  Butter. — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  has  melted,  sprinkle  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  it,  without  browning,  until  it 
is  well  cooked  ;  then  slowly  add  boiling  water  until  it  is 
of  the  right  consistency.  Pour  it  through  a  gravy- 
strainer,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  another  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  This  is  the  basis  for  a  variety  of  sauces,  and 
should  always  be  made  with  care.  Scorched  or  lumpy 
drawn  butter  may  not  materially  shorten  life,  but  it  is  an 
evidence  of  either  carelessness  or  ignorance,  or  of  **  too 
many  irons  in  the  fire  "  on  the  part  of  the  cook. 

Boiled  Egg  Sau^e  for  Baked  and  Boiled  Fish. — Add  to 
half  a  pint  of  drawn  butter,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
small  pieces. 

Parsley  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish  or  Fowl. — Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley  to  half  a  pint  of  hot 
drawn  butter. 

Holland  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish,  Cabbage,  Asparagus, 
and  Cauliflower. — Stir  into  half  a  pint  of  hot  drawn  but- 
ter, the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a  Httle  lemon- juice 
and  Cayenne  pepper. 

Brown  Sauce  for  Cutlets,  Steaks,  and  Potted  Meats. — 
Put  a  small  chopped  onion  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.     Brown,  but  do  not  scorch 


162  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   O'UT-DOORS. 

it ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  then  add  a  pint 
of  stock.  Let  it  boil  for  three  minutes,  and  then  strain 
it  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Roast  Beef  Gravy. — When  a  sauce  or  gravy  is  made 
from  the  drippings  of  a  roast  of  beef,  be  careful  to  re- 
move all  the  fat,  thicken,  not  too  thick,  with  a  little  flour 
mixed  smoothly  with  cold  water,  and  pour  it  through  a 
gravy  strainer. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Mutton  Chops. — Mix  half  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  a  sliced  onion,  and  some 
salt.  Stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour  ;  strain,  and  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  vinegar. 

Cold  Sauce  for  Cold  Roast  Beef. — Mix  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  gi'ated  horse-radish,  one  of  sugar,  two  of  vinegar, 
and  four  of  sweet  cream.  This  is  sometimes  relished 
with  hot  steaks. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce  for  Roast  Venison. — Mix  half 
a  lemon  peel,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  cinnamon,  and  a  few  cloves,  six  or  eight,  pounded 
together,  and  a  cupful  of  water.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour, 
and  add  a  glassful  of  currant  jelly.  When  the  latter  is 
melted,  strain  the  sauce  into  a  gravy-boat  or  bowl. 

BEEF,    MUTTON,    FOWLS,    ETC. 

Roasting  is  the  best  method  of  cooking  nearly  all 
meats,  but  as  very  few  country  kitchens  have  conveni- 
ences for  roasting,  the  next  best  method  is  baking,  and 
when  the  meat  is  well  basted,  and  removed  from  the  oven 
at  the  right  time,  it  is  almost  as  good  as  when  roasted. 
Twelve  minutes  to  the  pound  is  a  very  good  rule  for  bak- 
ing beef. 

Roast  Beef. — If  it  is  a  rib-roast,  remove  the  bones  so 
that  it  can  be  rolled  compactly  together,  and  kept  so  by 
a  piece  of  twine.     Dredgs  the  meat  all  over  with  flour  m 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPAEIXG.  163 

which  salt  and  pepper  has  been  mixed ;  place  it  in  the 
dripping  pan,  raised  from  the  bottom  by  a  grate  or  tin, 
and  put  it  m  a  brisk  oven.  After  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
or  when  the  meat  is  crisped  on  all  sides,  pour  a  pint  of 
salted  water  in  the  pan,  and  baste  it  often. 

Corned  Beef. — Allow  half  an  hour  to  each  pound  of 
beef.  Boil  it  very  gently,  the  cooking  process  is  not  at 
all  hastened  by  a  furious  fire,  and  if  it  is  to  be  eaten 
cold,  set  it  off,  and  let  it  remain  in  the  water  until  partly 
cooled  ;  then  place  it  in  an  earthen  dish,  lay  a  plate  over 
it,  and  press  it  with  a  three-pound  weight. 

Stuffed  Beefsteak. — Even  the  toughest  beef  becomes 
good  when  served  m  this  way  :  Take  a  round  steak,  and 
spread  it  an  inch  thick  with  a  stuffing  made  of  chopped 
bread  and  butter,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage. 
A  little  onion  may  be  added,  if  liked.  Roll  the  steak  up, 
tie  it  with  twine,  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  a  few  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork  on  top,  pour  around  it  a  pint  of  water,  cover 
closely,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  hours. 

Roast  Larrib. — Rub  it  with  salt  and  pepper ;  place  it 
in  a  brisk  oven,  and  baste  it  frequently  until  it  is  done. 
Ten  minutes  to  each  pound  is  about  the  time  required. 

Potted  Beef. — Put  the  beef  m  a  kettle,  with  some  lit- 
tle slices  of  salt  pork  at  the  bottom  ;  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  a  little  Cayenne  paper,  pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  and  set  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  covering  it 
closely.  When  it  has  fried  a  little  at  the  bottom,  turn 
the  meat,  and  in  ten  minutes  add  half  a  pint  of  water. 
Do  not  let  the  meat  boil  dry,  but  add  a  little  water  occa- 
sionally, letting  it  cook  slowly,  and  keeping  it  closely 
covered. 

Roast  Porh. — Allow  twenty  minutes  in  the  oven  to 
every  pound  of  pork.  A  stuffing  made  of  bread  and  bat- 
ter, and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  is 


164         FARM   HOMES,    Il^^-DOORS   Al^D   OUT-DOORS. 

an  improvement  to  all  pork  roasts,  and  apple  sauce  and 
cabbage  salad  should  be  served  with  them. 

Good  form  for  Cold  Meats. — Remnants  of  boils  and 
roasts  are  very  good  if  chopped  with  twice  their  quantity 
of  bread,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  moist- 
ened with  eggs  and  a  little  melted  butter,  and  either 
baked  in  a  loaf,  or  in  small  cakes  on  a  griddle. 

Boiled  Ham. — A  neat  and  relishable  dish  for  a  com- 
pany tea  is  a  platter  of  nicely  sliced  boiled  ham,  with  the 
fat  mostly  trimmed  off,  and  a  slice  of  lemon  placed  on 
each  slice  of  meat. 

Dried  Beef  and  Cream. — This  is  a  delicious  breakfast 
or  supper  dish.  Put  thin  shavings  of  dried  beef  m  a 
saucepan,  with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  slowly  come 
to  simmering  heat  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  drain 
away  the  water  and  add  a  small  lump  of  fresh  butter ; 
when  it  is  bubbling  hot,  and  fries  a  little,  pour  in  one 
cupful  of  milk  and  one  cupful  of  cream.  When  it  has 
simmered  awhile  m  the  milk,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  for 
a  moment,  after  which  remove  it  from  the  stove.  Stir  in 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  pour  it  into  a  warmed  tureen. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton.  — Wash  the  leg  and  put  it  into 
a  kettle  containing  enough-  boiling  water  to  cover  it,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  without  stopping  for  two  hours  and 
a  quarter — if  of  large  size.  At  the  end  of  the  first  hour 
throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Let  the  mutton  remain 
in  the  water,  after  it  is  removed  from  the  stove,  until 
nearly  cold — in  this  way  it  takes  back  some  of  its  juices  ; 
then  drain  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place.     Tomato  sauce  should  accompany  it  to  the  table. 

Salt  Pork,  No.  1. — Cut  the  pork  in  thin  slices  and  let 
them  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two  ;  drain,  broil 
them  in  a  frying-pan  until  slightly  crisp,  and  place  them 
in  a  tureen.     Turn  out  nearly  all  the  fat  in  the  frying- 


I 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  165 

pan  (it  can  be  used  for  frying  fish),  and  make  a  gravy  of 
a  pint  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  which  pour 
over  the  meat  m  the  tureen. 

Salt  PorlCf  No.  2. — Boil  four  or  five  pounds  of  pork 
having  *' streaks  of  lean  "  in  it,  in  plenty  of  water  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Take  it  out,  remove  the  skin,  cut 
gashes  across  the  top,  sprinkle  over  a  little  powdered  sage, 
pepper,  and  rolled  crackers,  and  set  it  m  the  oven  until 
browned  a  little.     It  is  to  be  eaten  cold. 

Roast  Turkey. — The  perfection  of  this  bird  depends 
first  upon  its  age  and  condition,  and  next  upon  its  being 
frequently  basted  and  thoroughly  cooked.  From  two 
and  a  half  to  three  hours  should  be  allowed  for  a  com- 
mon-sized turkey ;  a  large  one  requires  from  three  and 
a  half  to  four  hours.  In  cool  weather,  or  if  one  has  a 
refrigerator,  the  fowl  should  be  prepared  for  the  oven  the 
day  before  it  is  to  be  roasted.  Fill  it  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  a  loaf  of  soaked  white  bread,  a  small  cupful  of 
chopped  salt  pork,  a  minced  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  summer-savory,  a  little  pepper,  and  two  raw 
eggs.  Before  placing  it  in  the  oven,  lay  thin  slices  of  salt 
pork  on  top,  baste  it  with  salted  water,  and  sprinkle  over 
it  flour  and  pepper.  See  that  its  wings  and  legs  are  tied 
closely  to  the  body  in  good  shape.  Let  it  rest  upon  a 
tin  or  grate,  so  as  not  to  be  stewed  in  the  water  that 
must  be  poured  in  the  baking  pan.  Baste  it  half  a  dozen 
times  an  hour,  at  least.  It  can  be  served  with  Oyster 
Sauce,  or  with  a  gravy  made  from  the  drippings,  after 
the  turkey  is  removed  from  the  oven.  In  the  latter  case, 
the  liver  and  heart  of  the  fowl  should  be  boiled,  chopped 
finely,  and  added  i6  the  gravy,  after  it  is  strained.  Cran- 
berries, stewed  in  a  little  water,  sweetened,  and  partly 
frozen  in  a  mold,  are  good  with  turkey  ;  so  also  is  plum 
marmalade. 

Fried  Chichens. — Chickens  are  admirable  when,  after 


166         FARM  HOMES,   IN"-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

being  cut  up  and  boiled  in  salted  water  for  half  an  hour, 
they  are  fried  in  a  pan,  with  a  little  salt  pork,  until  nicely 
browned,  placed  in  a  tureen,  and  a  gravy  made  of  milk 
and  cream,  and  a  little  flour  poured  over  them. 

Roasted  Quails. — Place  the  birds  in  a  baking-pan,  with 
half  an  inch  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Lay  a  thin 
slice  of  bacon  or  of  salt  pork  over  each  breast,  cover  the 
pan  closely,  and  set  it  m  the  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  steam  and  *^ plump"  the  birds.  Then  remove 
the  cover  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting 
them  often. 

Roast  Goose. — Do  not  attempt  to  roast  any  but  a  young 
goose.  Make  for  it  a  stuffing  of  bread  and  butter,  sea- 
soned with  chopped  onions,  sage,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
moistened  with  an  egg  or  two.  Like  turkey,  it  must  be 
basted  often  and  well  cooked.  From  two  to  two  hours 
and  a  half  is  a  sufficient  time.  Apple  sauce  should  ac- 
company roast  goose. 

Stewed  Pigeons. — Place  a  bit  of  salt  pork  in  each,  and 
lay  them  breast  upward  in  a  stew-pan  along  with  a  carrot, 
an  onion,  and  a  little  parsley,  and  pour  over  enough  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them.  Cover  closely  and  let  them 
simmer  until  tender.  Place  them  on  pieces  of  toasted 
bread  ;  remove  the  vegetables  from  the  broth,  thicken  it 
with  a  little  flour  and  water,  adding  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  pour  it  over  the  pigeons. 

Pressed  Veal. — Boil  a  loin  of  veal  in  as  little  water  as 
possible.  When  done  and  cooled,  chop  it  rather  finely, 
seasoning  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage,  and  pour  over  it 
a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Put  it  in  a 
deep,  oval  dish,  lay  a  platter  on  top,  and  press  it  with  a 
weight. 

Calf^s  Liver, — Fry  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  until  crisp ; 
lay  them  upon  a  platter  and  keep  warm.     Dip  thin  slices 


f 


BEST   FOODS — METHODS   OF   PREPARING.  167 

of  liver  in  boiling  water,  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  fry 
them  in  the  pork  fat,  turning  them  often  until  done, 
when  place  on  the  platter  with  the  pork,  and  ser^^e  with 
a  lettuce  or  spinach  salad.  This  dish  is  improved  for 
some  tastes  if  an  onion  is  sliced  and  browned  with  the 
pork. 

Baked  Beans  vjitli  Pork. — Beans  are  mtich  more  pal- 
atable and  much  more  nutritious  when  they  are  not  sat- 
urated with  the  fat  of  pork  or  any  other  ^*  grease."  Any 
one  who  tries  this  recipe  will  recognize  the  superiority  of 
the  dish  to  the  usual  method  of  preparing  it.  If  the 
beans  are  more  than  a  year  old,  let  them  soak  over  night 
and  scald  them  in  the  morning  in  water  containing  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  (If  they  are  of  the  year's  harvest, 
twenty  minutes  gentle  parboiling  in  soda  water  will  an- 
swer.) Then  put  them  mto  clear  water  with  a  leanish 
piece  of  salt  pork,  neatly  cleaned  of  brine,  and  gashed  in 
slices  across  the  top,  half  way  to  the  bottom.  After  boil- 
ing slowly  for  an  hour,  or  a  less  time  if  the  beans  become 
tender,  skim  them  from  the  water  into  an  earthen  dish, 
leaving  the  meat  to  continue  cooking  in  the  kettle.  Pour 
upon  them  three  tablespoonfuls  of  syrup,  a  small  cupful 
of  clear  hot  water,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper  and  salt ;  if  it  is  a  small  mess  the  meat  will  have 
salted  sufficiently.  Set  them  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
to  bake  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  An 
onion  sliced  over  the  top  and  removed  when  they  are 
done,  improves  the  flavor  for  many.  Take  the  pork  from 
the  kettle  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  until  it  is  crisped  a  little. 

Cranberry  or  Wren's  Egg  beans  are  very  nice,  cooked 
and  seasoned  in  the  above  way,  without  any  pork,  but 
with  an  addition  of  plenty  of  salt,  pepper,  and  an  ounce 
of  butter. 


168         FARM   HOMES,    IX-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 
VEGETABLES. 

It  is  proverbial  that  only  one  cook  in  a  thousand  knows 
how  to  cook  a  potato.  In  nine  cases  out  of  ten  the  best 
portion  of  this  vegetable  is  thrown  away  m  thick  parings, 
and  in  ninety-nine  times  out  of  a  hundred  they  are  boiled 
instead  of  steamed.  Thus  this  common  viand  has  slim 
chances,  in  many  kitchens,  of  reaching  the  table  in  its 
perfection.  None  but  old  potatoes  should  be  pared  at 
all ;  and  even  old  potatoes,  if  they  have  just  a  strip  taken 
off  the  longest  way  around  them,  to  facilitate  the  process 
of  peeling,  will  prove  better  for  having  had  their  Jackets 
mostly  left  on.  Potatoes  buried  in  earth  or  powdered 
charcoal  never  become  old,  and  by  using  good  methods 
of  cooking,  excellent  preparations  of  this  largely  eaten 
vegetable  may  always  be  had. 

Steamed  Potatoes,  — Thinly  pare  and  cut  in  halves  as 
many  potatoes  as  are  wanted.  Lay  them  in  ice-water  for 
ten  minutes.  Have  a  close-covered  steamer  ready  upon 
a  kettle  containing  plenty  of  boiling  water ;  place  the 
potatoes  in  it,  and  they  will,  if  steadily  steamed,  be  done 
in  half  an  hour.  Then  set  the  steamer  off  to  the  back  of 
the  stove  and  open  the  cover  slightly,  that  all  moisture 
may  evaporate. 

When  a  pudding  or  a  loaf  of  corn-bread  is  being  steam- 
ed, the  potatoes  can  be  put  in  at  their  proper  time 
around  the  pudding  or  bread  dish,  and  so  two  birds  se- 
cured with  one  stone. 

Boiled  Potatoes, — If  one  prefers  to  pare  the  potatoes,  let 
the  paring  be  as  thin  as  possible,  and  put  them  in  a  ket- 
tle with  enough  of  cold  salted  water  to  cover  them. 
When  they  are  done,  pour  off  nearly  all  the  water,  set 
the  kettle  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  keeping  it  closely 
covered,  and  let  them  steam  until  dry  and  flaky. 

Potato  Snow, — For  a  handsome  dish,  and  one  that  is 


BEST  FOODS — METHODS  OF   PREPARIi^^G.  169 

also  delicious,  press  a  dozen  hot  nicely-boiled  *' Snow- 
flake  "  potatoes  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  vegetable  dish 
previously  warmed,  and  carry  to  the  table  immediately. 
A  bowl  of  hot  cream,  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  little  white 
pepper,  should  accompany  it. 

Breakfast  Potatoes. — Place  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  in  a 
saucepan.  When  it  boils  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk.  As  it  boils  up  again  pour 
in  a  quart  of  sliced,  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  and  set  the 
saucepan  on  the  back  of  the  range  or  stove,  where  the 
potatoes  may  be  thoroughly  warmed  without  any  scorch- 
ing of  the  milk. 

Baked  Potatoes. — The  charm  of  a  baked  potato  con- 
sists in  its  being  served  at  exactly  the  right  stage  of 
"  doneness."  A  few  minutes  waiting  detracts  much  from 
its  good  qualities.  So  something  depends  upon  those 
who  come  to  dinner  as  well  as  on  those  who  prepare  it. 
Baked  potatoes  are  very  comfortable  for  winter  suppers, 
with  cream  gravy. 

Ruta-haga  Turnips. — Pare,  slice  thinly,  and  either 
steam  them  or  boil  them  in  salted  boiling  water.  When 
done,  drain  away  the  water,  dry  out  the  moisture,  mash 
finely,  and  season  with  plenty  of  butter,  salt,  white  pep- 
per, and  a  little  white  sugar. ' 

Cauliflower. — Have  salted  boiling  water  ready ;  cut 
away  all  outer  leaves,  and  put  the  cauliflower  in  the  ket- 
tle. In  a  short  time  it  will  have  cooked  enough.  Re- 
move it  to  a  vegetable  dish,  being  careful  to  keep  it 
unbroken,  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  milk  and  cream 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thickened  slightly 
with  flour. 

Parsnips.  —When  boiled  and  seasoned  with  salt,  but- 
ter, and  pepper,  for  one  dinner  ;  prepare  enough,  so  that 
a  part  can  be  reserved  for  next  day's  fritters. 
8 


170         FARM   HOMES,    IK- DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

Pars7iip  Fritters. — To  half  a  dozen  boiled,  mashed 
parsnips,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  eggs,  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Form  into  little  cakes,  and  brown 
them  in  a  little  suet  in  a  frying-pan. 

Egg  Platit. — Cut  this  vegetable  into  slices  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  which  dip  in  salted  beaten  eggs  and  rolled 
crackers,  alternately,  and  fry  until  richly  browned  in  hot 
lard  or  suet.     Serve  on  a  warm  plate. 

A  Nice  Variation  of  Sweet  Corn. — Grate  the  com  from 
a  dozen  fresh,  tender  ears  ;  season  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cook  it  with  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
being  careful  that  it  gets  no  scorching. 

Boiled  Onions.  —  Peel  them  with  the  hands  under 
water,  and  no  "idle  tears"  will  accompany  the  process. 
Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  let  them  cook  un- 
til nearly  done,  when  pour  away  the  water,  and  replace 
it  with  a  cupful  of  rich  milk  and  some  salt  and  pepper, 
letting  them  simmer  until  tender. 

Boiled  Winter  Squash. — Remove  the  seeds,  and  place 
it  without  paring  in  a  steamer,  with  the  rind  uppermost. 
When  tender,  scrape  the  squash  from  the  rind,  mash 
smoothly,  and  season  with  salt,  butter,  and  a  little  sugar. 

Squash  Fritters. — Mix  cold  boiled  or  baked  winter 
squash  with  an  Qgg,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  flour ;  form 
into  little  cakes,  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  brown  them 
nicely  on  both  sides  in  a  frying-pan  containing  a  little 
Buet  or  lard,  and  pile  them  on  a  warm  plate,  with  bits  of 
butter  between. 

Celery. — After  cutting  away  the  roots,  remove  the  outer 
tough  stalks,  wash  thoroughly,  and  place  it  in  cold  water 
until  wanted  for  the  table.  Women  having  the  care  of 
large  houseliolds  should  eat  freely  of  this  savory  esculent, 
for  it  gives  strength  to  the  nerves,  and  brings  sound  and 
healthful  repose  at  night.  It  has  also  been  announced 
lately  as  a  remedy  for  rheumatism.     Ordinarily,  it  is 


A   FEW  SIMPLE  LUXURIES.  171 

dipped  in  salt,  and  eaten  as  we  eat  radishes ;  but  as  a 
cure  for  rheumatic  twinges,  it  must  be  steeped  in  water, 
and  the  water,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  may  be 
drank  either  warm  or  cold. 


CHAPTER    XL 

A  FEW   SIMPLE   LUXURIES. 

AI^   ICE  HOUSE. 

Select  or  make  a  level  space  of  ground  near  the  house, 
where  least  exposed  to  the  summer  sun,  and  cover  it  with 
any  kind  of  cheap  boarding — odds  and  ends  answering 
just  as  well  as  selected  lumber  ;  leave  spaces  between  the 
boards  for  drainage.  Place  stout  posts  at  each  corner,  the 
two  at  the  front  being  two  feet  higher  than  those  at  the 
back,  to  support  the  slanting  roof.  Nail  rough  boards 
all  round  to  the  hight  of  two  and  a  half  feet,  and  then 
nail  similar  ones  on  the  inside  ;  fill  up  this  space  on  all 
sides  with  sawdust  or  tan-bark,  and  cover  the  floor  to 
the  depth  of  ten  inches  with  the  same.  Select  a  freezing 
day,  when  the  ice  is  in  its  best  condition  for  storing  this 
summer  luxury.  Have  the  ice  cut  in  as  large  squares  as 
can  be  handled,  and  pack  it  as  closely  and  evenly  as  pos- 
sible, filling  up  all  gaps  with  pounded  ice,  and  turning 
water  over  each  layer.  Nail  on  more  boards  when  the 
space  is  filled,  and  put  in  more  layers  of  ice  until  enough 
is  stored  for  a  summer's  use  ;  then  cover  the  top  two  feet 
deepVith  the  tan  or  sawdust,  and  build  over  it  a  roof  of 


172         FARM  HOMES,    IK-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOORS. 

boards  covered  with  slabs.  When  ice  is  removed  from  it, 
care  must  be  taken  to  replace  the  covering  as  completely 
as  possible.  Of  course,  a  more  elegant  receptacle  can  be 
builded  if  a  farmer  has  time  and  money  to  devote  to  it ; 
but  if  completely  builded  and  shaded  by  trees  or  graceful 
vines,  even  this  arrangement  will  not  be  an  eye-sore, 
especially  when  dog-days  shall  have  arrived ! 


A  HOME-MADE   REFRIGERATOR. 

A  good  refrigerator  from  the  shops  costs  anywhere 
from  il8  to  $50,  according  to  the  size  and  finish.  Every 
house-keeper  may  not  be  able  to  possess  one,  and  so  it  is 
worth  while  to  see  what  can  be  done  m  the  way  of  a  de- 
cent substitute  :  Secure  two  dry-goods  boxes,  the  more 
substantial  the  better,  one  of  them  to  be  three  or  four 
inches  smaller  than  the  other  on  all  sides,  and  fix  the 
tops  to  open  on  hinges  of  iron,  or  stout  leather.  The 
larger  the  boxes,  of  course,  the  more  convenience  and 
comfort  is  afforded.  Place  an  inch  or  two  of  sawdust 
over  the  bottom  of  the  larger  box,  and  set  the  smaller  one 
into  it.  Bore  three-quarter-inch  lioles  through  both 
boxes  at  either  end,  near  the  top,  and  insert  a  roll  of  stiff 
pasteboard  in  each  to  act  as  ventilators.  Then  fill  in  all 
the  space  between  the  boxes  with  sawdust.  Put  in  shelves 
at  either  end,  leaving  space  in  the  center  for  the  large 
deep  pan  or  pail  that  is  to  hold  the  ice.  There  can  also 
be  two  or  three  pegs,  on  which  to  hang  pails  of  milk  or 
fruit.  A  large  tin  pail,  with  a  thin  round  board  at  the 
bottom  to  prevent  its  being  bruised,  would  be  the  most 
convenient  thing  for  holding  the  ice.  Such  a  refrigerator, 
placed  in  the  pantry,  or  some  cool  room,  and  covered  m 
the  hottest  days  with  a  folded  blanket  over  the  top,  which 
is  not  protected  with  sawdust,  would  keep  ice  for  twenty- 
four  hours ;  and  in  half  a  dozen  such  days,  pay  f8r  its 


A   FEW   SIMPLE   LUXURIES.  173 

slight  cost  many  times  over  in  the  amount  of  food  it  would 
help  to  preserve. 

A   WATER  FILTER. 

Serious  sicknesses  would  often  be  averted  from  the 
household  if,  among  other  sanitary  regulations,  none  but 
filtered  water  was  drank  by  its  members.  Water  may 
look  and  taste  like  the  purest,  and  still  contain  disease- 
germs  that  we  would  retreat  from  m  horror  if  they  but 
presented  themselves  duly  labelled.  Wells,  cisterns,  and 
springs  that  occupy  ground  lower  than  that  of  drains, 
vaults,  or  barn-yards,  within  a  hundred  feet  or  more, 
should  be  regarded  with  suspicion,  no  matter  how  *•  splen- 
did *  the  water  may  appear. 

A  good  and  elScient  filter  can  be  made  in  this  way : 
Take  a  cask,  rem'ove  one  end  and  set  it  upright,  the  open 
end  at  the  top.  At  one  third  of  the  distance  from  the 
bottom  place  a  round  partition,  pierced  with  small  holes. 
On  this  arrange  a  layer  of  clean,  small  pebbles,  and  over 
them  a  layer  of  charcoal  and  another  of  sand,  topping  it 
with  more  pebbles.  Over  this  put  another  partition  with 
holes  111  it,  or  a  layer  of  good-sized  stones,  to  prevent  the 
pebbles  from  being  disturbed  when  water  is  poured  in. 
A  faucet  is  to  be  placed  in  the  bottom  to  draw  off  the 
water.  A  pail  of  water  and  a  lump  of  ice,  placed  in  the 
top  of  the  cask  and  closely  covered,  supplies  the  perfec- 
tion of  drinking  water  for  twenty-four  hours. 

ICE-CREAM  WITHOUT  A   FREEZER. 

Make  a  smooth,  thin  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
pint  of  cream,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  extract,  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful  of  corn-starch.  When  cool,  pour  it  m  a  tin  pail  with 
a  close  cover,  which  set  m  a  large  pail  or  tub  containing 


174         FARM  HOMES,    IN'-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

ice  and  salt.     Heap  the  ice  about  and  over  the  tin  pail, 
and  in  about  an  hour  the  cream  will  be  nicely  frozen. 

COOL   HOUSES   IIT   SUMMER. 

During  severe  heat,  close  the  doors  and  windows  of 
lower  rooms*  after  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning,  witli 
the  exception  of  some  north  door  or  window,  and 
open  the  doors  leadmg  into  the  hall  or  the  stair- 
way. Upper  rooms  not  being  in  use  until  night  will 
naturally  be  left  open  to  sun  and  breeze,  as  all  sleep- 
ing rooms  should  be.  From  these,  the  cooler  air  will 
descend  to  the  rooms  below,  while  the  warmer  current 
will  ascend.  Toward  the  middle  of  the  afternoon, 
four  or  five  o'clock,  east  and  south  windows  can  bo 
opened  ;  and  at  sunset  all  can  be  flung  wide,  and,  if  there 
are  screens,  remain  so  through  the  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing, the  house  will  seem  to  have  absorbed  coolness  enough 
to  last  until  the  relief  of  another  sunset. 

BOOMS  WITHOUT  FLIES. 

Farm-house  rooms  m  daily  use  are  generally  found 
swarming  with  flies.  It  is  only  now  and  then  that 
the  visitor  in  rural  districts  enjoys  the  luxury  of  a 
dining-room  where  there  are  screens  at  windows  and 
doors,  and  a  delightful  absence  of  these  buzzing  and 
somewhat  filthy  annoyances.  If  farm-Avives  only  realized 
how  easy  it  is  to  get  the  upper  hand  of  flies,  they  would 
not  submit  to  them  as  they  do.  Fifty  cents  worth  of 
mosquito  netting,  if  the  wire  screening  can  not  be  pur- 
chased, securely  tacked  on  plain  pine  frames,  and  placed 
in  the  doors  and  windows  of  the  dining-room,  before  the 
flics  have  taken  possession  of  the  house,  will  keep  the 
room  almost  entirely  free  of  them  all  summer.  If  there 
13  a  baby  in  the  house  who  likes  to  poke  his  fingers 


A   FEW  SIMPLE   LUXURIES.  175 

•through  the  door-screen^  the  lower  half  can  have  slats 
nailed  across,  or  be  composed  of  boards  entirely.  A  bit 
of  coiled  wire  spring  will  keep  the  door  from  being  left 
ajar.  There  should  also  be  netting  at  bedroom  and  pan- 
try windows.  If  these  screens  are  all  put  in  place  before 
the  flies  make  their  appearance,  there  will  be  very  few 
intruders.  Flies  know  enough  to  become  "  wonted  "  to 
places,  and  it  is  not  so  easy  driving  them  away  after  they 
have  once  made  themselves  at  home. 

A  POT-POURRI,   OR  SCENT-JAB. 

Some  of  the  *'  decorated  "  jars  which  l^ve  given  pleasant* 
occupation  to  so  many  young  fingers  the  past  two  years, 
can  be  put  to  appropriate  use  by  filhug  them  alternately 
with  layers  of  salt  and  any  fragrant  leaves  or  blossoms  that 
can  be  obtained.  Spices  should  also  be  sprinkled  on  the 
leaves.  Sweet  clover,  rosemary,  lemon  verbena,  rose  gera- 
nium, June  roses,  sweet  briar,  lavender,  and  as  many  more 
as  can  be  found  may  be  used.  Cinnamon,  clove,  and  nut- 
meg ground  together  add  greatly  to  the  strength  of  the 
perfume.  After  filling,  keep  the  jar  closely  covered  for 
three  months.  After  that,  if  the  contents  are  occasion- 
ally stirred  with  a  stick,  and  the  cover  left  off  for  a  few 
moments,  the  room  will  be  filled  with  a  delightful  fra- 
grance. 

Another  scent-jar  that  will  keep  its  perfume  for  years 
is  made  chiefly  of  materials  from  the  drug  store.  Bruise 
together  four  oimces  of  orris  root  and  sweet  flag.  Add 
three  ounces  of  sandal  wood,  one  ounce  of  cedar,  one 
ounce  each  of  gum  benzoin,  styrax,  and  nutmeg,  pow- 
dered, half  a  drachm  of  essence  of  lemon,  one  drachm  of 
millefleurs,  twenty  drops  of  oil  of  lavender,  ten  grains  of 
musk,  and  three  ounces  of  rose  leaves.  Mix  all  together, 
and  add  a  pound  of  fine  salt.  Mrs.  **  Daisy  Eyebright" 
finds  this  mixture  excellent  for  perfuming  linen,  furs. 


176          FARM   HOMES,    IN'-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

and  woollen  goods,  as  well  as  for  filling  scent-jars.  It 
should  be  kept  covered.  When  used  for  drawers  and 
boxes,  the  salt  and  rose  leaves  are  omitted,  ten  drops  of 
otto  of  rose  substituted,  and  the  powder  placed  in  silk  or 
flannel  bags. 

GRAPES   AI^D   PEARS   FOR  THE  HOLIDAYS. 

Select  the  choicest  and  soundest  specimens,  and  lay  them 
on  shelves  in  a  cool,  dark,  and  well-ventilated  closet,  or  a 
darkened  upper  room,  where  there  will  be  no  danger  of 
freezing,  and  where  they  can  have  plenty  of  space  so  as  not 
.to  touch  each  otl^r.  Clusters  of  grapes  should  have  the 
ends  of  their  stems  dipped  in  melted  wax,  and  will  keep 
best  if  hung  up  on  slats  to  prevent  any  contact  with  the 
wall.  Choice  fall  apples  and  pears,  that  otherwise  might 
not  appear  at  Christmas,  should  be  wiped  and  placed  on 
white  paper.  The  cooler  the  room  is,  without  freezing, 
the  better  the  fruit  will  keep,  and  good  ventilation  is 
strictly  necessary.  The  Concords,  Isabellas,  and  other 
late-npening  grapes  are  excellent  for  such  storing,  and 
when  freezing  weather  arrives  can  be  packed  in  sawdust, 
and  kept  nearly  all  winter. 

WARMED   BEDROOMS. 

There  is  no  surer  pathway  to  the  tomb,  says  Mrs. 
**Eyebright,"  than  cold  bedrooms  and  cold  beds. 
"Neuralgia,  pneumonia,  and  consumption  itself  can 
often  be  traced  to  the  comfortless  room  m  which  child- 
ren and  delicate  persons  are  forced  to  sleep."  It  is  not 
at  all  true  that  "cold  bedrooms  are  healthy."  This 
favorite  idea  should  cease  to  be  held  by  people  who  lay 
claims  to  common  sense.  The  less  we  are  roasted  in 
summer  and  frozen  in  winter,  the  nearer  we  approach  a 
climate  most  conducive  to  health.     It  should  be  the 


A   FEW   SIMPLE   LUXURIES.  177 

home-keeper's  study  to  secure  as  far  as  possible  a  tem- 
perate climate  for  the  house.  Nothing  can  be  better  for 
bedrooms  in  winter  than  fresh  air,  with  the  chill  re- 
moved from  it.  Any  one  who  can  afford  to  have  such  an 
atmosphere,  and  still  permits  himself  and  family  to  go 
shivermg  to  bed  to  breathe  over  and  over  again  the  same 
icy  air,  the  impurity  of  which  is  not  at  all  ^'healthy," 
because  it  is  so  cold,  ojiight  to  be  prosecuted  for  at  least 
an  attempt  to  commit  murder.  By  a  happy  provision  of 
nature,  most  people  live  either  where  coal  is  cheap  or 
where  wood  is  plenty ;  and  in  ordinary  houses,  such  as 
are  not  warmed  throughout  by  furnaces,  a  hall-stove, 
burning  either  hard  coal  or  chunks  of  oak  and  hickory, 
will  give  to  the  upper  rooms  in  winter  an  atmosphere 
that  has  the  bite  taken  out  of  it ;  while  a  window  in  each 
bedroom,  if  there  is  no  better  method  of  ventilation,  can 
be  let  down  an  inch  at  the  top,  to  feed  sleeping  lungs 
with  a  comfortable  amount  of  oxygen. 

If  economy  in  fuel  must  be  used,  the  stove  through  the 
day  need  not  be  fed,  but  at  night  right-minded  economy 
will  see  that  it  sends  out  and  sends  up  its  comforting 
cheer. 


178         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOOES   AND   OUT-DOOES. 

CHAPTER    XII. 
FARM   NEIGHBORHOODS. 

Just  as  where  two  or  three  are  met  together  in  His 
name,  there  reigns  in  their  midst  the  blessed  Spirit,  so 
where  two  or  four  farms  front  each  other,  exists  the  pos- 
sibility of  Neighbokhood.  And  a  neighborhood  is  an 
excellent  thing  m  the  country.  It  is  only  the  work- weary, 
noise-deafened,  and  perhaps  slightly  dyspeptic  city  mind 
that  ever  sings  in  earnest  of  the  charms  of  solitude,  and 
the  all-satisfying  companionship  of  nature.  '^If  I  must 
choose  between  men  and  trees,"  says  a  wise  and  witty 
somebody,  "  I  must  say  that  I  prefer  men."  Transplant 
your  weary  city-ite  to  the  quiet  and  solitude  of  some  farm 
lying  five  miles  from  its  little  country  post-office,  give 
him  the  sighing  of  the  breeze  and  the  chirp  of  the  crickets 
night  and  day,  with  an  Agricultural  Report  for  reading, 
and  the  chickens  and  calves  for  companions,  and  in  less 
than  a  year's  time  you  will  probably  have  on  your  hands 
a  man  gratefully  ready  to  return  to  the  cheerful  activities 
and  §ocial  advantages  of  his  city  home. 

No  one  wants  too  much  of  anything,  even  of  the  serene, 
compunionless  quiet  of  a  beautiful  country  region,  and 
the  happiest  existence  must  be  that  which  can  command, 
along  with  green  fields  and  singing  streams,  something 
of  the  good  cheer  and  inspiration  of  congenial  fellowship, 
both  in  social  and  business  life. 

A  jocose  city  friend,  who  is  more  than  half  in  earnest, 
however,  says  life  can  never  possess  its  full  meaning  for 
her  until  she  can  have  a  fine  fruit  and  dairy  farm  within 
ten  minutes  walk  of  the  post-office  !  And  so,  while  we 
recognize  the  stern  fact  that  we  cannot  combine  all  the 


FAEM   JTEIGHBORHOODS.  179 

advantages  of  the  city  with  all  the  beauty  and  freshness 
of  the  country,  we  can,  in  either  situation,  combine  a 
little  of  the  good  in  both. 

It  is  characteristic  of  some  farmers  to  jeer  more  or  less 
at  citie?  and  city-hfe,  and  to  regard  city-people  with  a 
sort  of  derisive  compassion.  Visitors  from  cities  to  the 
country  7\'ill  grow  familiar  with  such  expressions  as  this  : 
'*  So  you've  concluded  to  come  out  where  you  can  live  for 
a  while  !"  Now  if  farm-people  did  but  know  it,  it  is  an 
undeniable  fact  that,  as  farm-life  now  is,  it  is  in  these 
same  derided  cities  that  one  often  lives  most  and  lives 
best,  providing  one  is  not  crushed  within  the  narrow 
groove  of  poverty.  While  farmers  shrug  their  shoulders 
at  cities,  let  them  remember  that  cities  are  drawing  their 
sons  and  daughters  away  from  them  !  that  culture,  so- 
ciety, and  the  pleasant  clash  and  sparkle  of  immense 
business  activities,  often  make  lonesome,  monotonous 
farm-work  very  distasteful  in  comparison. 

And  whose  fault  is  it  that  farm-work  is  lonesome  and 
monotonous  ?  Certainly  not  the  fault  of  the  cliildren 
born  to  it.  Nor  can  the  trouble  be  attributed  to  Dame 
Nature,  who  has  given  such  lavish  materials  for  beautiful 
homes.  If  farmers  want  to  fortify  their  lofty  position  in 
regard  to  real  *' living,"  and  if  they  want  to  keep  their 
children  near  them,  they  must  make  an  effort  to  lighten 
the  loncsomeness  and  the  monotony,  and  to  create  homes 
from  which  the  children  will  not  ghde  away  as  they  grow 
older. 

Let  them  try,  among  other  things,  the  Neighboehood 
cure.  Half  a  dozen  families,  settled  iu  neat  houses  within 
"calling"  distance  of  each  other,  with  spacious  fruit  and 
flower-gardens,  snug  bams  and  granaries,  and  a  single 
wide  street  adorned  with  shade  trees  and  neat  walks, 
would  form  a  community  richly  productive  of  good.  And 
what  a  charming  contrast  it  would  be  to  the  same  number 
of  houses  strung  lonesomely  a  mile  or  more  apart ! 


180  FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AJfD   OUT-DOOES. 

In  the  West,  where  land  lines  are  drawn  with  geometric 
precision,  and  the  comparative  newness  of  the  country 
makes  the  plan  easily  practicable,  it  is  a  wonder  that  farm- 
neighborhoods  have  not  sprung  naturally  mto  existence. 
Four  ''  forties,"  or  four  ''  eighties,"  or  even  larger  farms, 
touching  each  other  at  a  central  point,  might  have  all 
their  houses,  barns,  and  other  buildings  collected  in  a 
social  and  picturesque  little  settlement  at  this  center. 
The  cross-roads  running  through,  might  be  set  Avith  shade 
trees,  and  fenced  with  neat  and  thrifty  hedges.  It  would 
not  be  a  great  expense  to  make  narrow  gravel  or  flag 
walks  on  either  side  of  these  streets,  with  pretty  rustic 
gateways  leading  into  the  grounds  of  each  home.  In  the 
center  of  the  small  square  formed  by  the  intersecting 
roads,  a  well  might  be  sunk,  and  a  pump  placed,  shaded 
by  a  light  rustic  roof,  and  provided  with  drinking-cup  and 
trough.  Enough  blessings,  both  from  man  and  beast, 
would  descend  upon  such  an  effort,  in  even  one  hot  and 
dusty  summer  day,  to  pay  the  cost  of  it.  One  of  these 
corner  homes  might  maintain  a  good  croquet-ground ; 
another,  a  capital  swing — large  enough  to  send  fathers 
and  mothers  into  the  air,  as  well  as  their  children. 
Another  could  furnish  a  smooth  and  capacious  stretch  of 
turf  for  foot-ball  and  other  games ;  while  the  ambition  of 
the  remaining  corner  might  perhaps  unfold  beautifully 
in  a  comfortable  and  pleasant  reading  and  club-room, 
where,  m  long  winter  evenings,  the  little  community  might 
gather  sometimes  for  the  reading  and  discussion  of  things 
of  interest. 

An  attractivejiucleus  like  this  once  formed,  a  portion,  at 
least,  of  the  sons  and  daughters  growing  up  would  be  apt 
to  build  homes  near  at  hand,  and  so  the  growth  and 
beauty  of  the  neighborhood  would  increase  rather  than 
diminish  under  the  touch  of  the  swift  years. 

Where  four  or  fi  ve  friendly  families  are  gathered  together, 
it  would  be  no  great  task  for  some  one  of  the  fathers  to 


FARM   NEIGHBORHOODS.  181 

collect  the  children,  in  winter  weather,  into  a  generous 
sleigh-box  (I  would  suggest  plenty  of  sleigh-bells  and 
warm  robes),  and  take  them  to  school,  some  other  father 
going  for  them  at  night.  The  dreariness  and  inefficiency 
of  the  average  country  school  is  bad  enough,  without  sub- 
jecting children  to  the  added  misery  of  wading  through 
miles  of  snow,  and  facing  biting  winds  in  order  to  reach 
its  portal.  And  just  here  it  may  not  be  out  of  place  to 
assert  that  if  even  these  four  or  five  families  would  but 
take  hold  of  their  country  school,  and  resolve  to  make  it 
something  worthy  of  the  name,  a  great  reform  would  take 
place.  If  they  would  see  that  their  school-building  is 
capable  of  being  decently  warmed  and  decently  ventilated  ; 
that  it  is  kept  clean  and  wholesome,  and  also  free  from 
the  scribblmgs  and  scrawlmgs  which  are  now  its  inevi- 
table characteristic  ;  if  they  would  take  one  brief  day, 
and  set  out  a  few  shade  trees  and  hardy  shrubs,  and  en- 
courage the  *^  big  scholars  "  to  take  care  of  them  ;  if  they 
would  cultivate  the  acquaintance  of  the  teacher  ;  if  they 
would  visit  the  school,  not  on  the  last  day,  but  every  two 
or  three  weeks  ;  and  if  every  Saturday  evening  they  would 
give  five  or  twenty  minutes  to  a  review  of  their  children's 
progress,  the  '^District  School"  would  speedily  become 
an  institution  fit  to  take  in  hand  the  plastic  minds  and 
hearts  of  mnocant  children. 

Many  more  or  less  important  advantages  would  spring 
from  such  a  community.  Each  family  subscribing  for  one 
or  two  first-class  magazines  and  newspapers,  a  profitable 
"  circulating  library,"  full  of  instruction  and  entertain- 
ment, would  be  the  result.  Clothes,  groceries,  and  farm- 
supplies,  could  be  purchased  at  wholesale  rates,  and 
divided  according  to  individual  orders.  Some  happy  boy, 
with  a  pony  and  stout  leather  satchel,  could  be  chosen 
mail-carrier  to  and  from  the,  perhaps,  distant  post-office, 
and  there  would  follow  the  luxury  of  a  daily  paper  for 
the  reading-room,  and  letters  delivered  at  the  door.     A 


182  FAEM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

blacksmith's  forge  might  be  maintained,  and  save  many 
trips  to  the  village  for  simple  repairs.  A  large  easy 
wagon  and  four  horses  could  occasionally  convey  the  lec- 
ture or  church-going  portion  of  these  families  to  town, 
when  there  should  be  something  specially  worth  hearing ; 
and  the  same  vehicle  would  be  fine  for  pic-nic  expedi- 
tions and  harvest  frolics.  A  good  sermon,  out  of  the  many 
now  reported  in  the  newspapers,  might  be  selected  for 
reading  at  some  neighbor's  house  on  rainy  or  snowy  Sun- 
days ;  and  it  would  be  strange  if,  even  in  so  small  a  vil- 
lage, there  might  not  be  an  organ  and  two  or  three  good 
voices  for  the  accompanying  hymns.  Such  things  do 
good,  sometimes  more  good  than  is  obtained  in  some 
stately  church,  with  its  imposing  fashion  and  formality. 
Sewing-Bees  might  be  held,  and  the  women  expeditiously 
help  each  other  through  the  huri:y  of  spring  and  fall 
sewing.  Husking-frolics  and  Wood-sawing  Socials  would 
occur ;  and  what  to  both  men  and  women  is  often  hard 
and  monotonous  drudgery,  would  prove  almost  a  recrea- 
tion, because  of  the  good  cheer  of  humanity's  helpful  and 
inspiring  c  ^mpanionship. 

Such  a  Neighborhood  would  be  worth  while,  if  only 
for  its  interchange  of  friendly  lights  on  a  stormy  Decem- 
ber night !  What  mother's  heart  but  would  beat  braver 
as  she  rocks  her  sick  baby  in  her  arms,  to  know  that 
three  minutes  distant,  were  other  mother-hearts  ready 
with  their  sympathetic  aid  and  worthy  counsel  ?  What 
children  but  would  grow  up  happier,  and  better,  and  more 
intelligent  from  having  daily  companionship  with  other 
happy,  good,  and  intelligent  children  ?  What  man  but 
would  enjoy  and  profit  by  the  neighborly  chat  over  farm 
matters,  and  political  aspects,  the  neighborly  help  and 
the  pleasant  competition  in  making  neat  and  thrifty 
homes  ? 


TO  farmers'  wives.  183 

CHAPTER    XIIL 
TO   FARMERS'   WIVES. 

A  vigorous  and  truthful  English  writer  declares  that 
"  unless  a  woman  lives  with  a  sister  or  a  faithful  woman- 
friend,  it  must  be  scored  one  against  her  chances  for 
good  health,  that  she  has  no  wife  to  take  care  of  her ! 
There  is  seldom  any  one  to  do  for  her  what  she  does  for 
her  husband.  Nobody  reminds  her  to  change  her  boots 
when  they  are  damp,  or  tenderly  jogs  her  attention  as  to 
draughts,  or  gives  her  the  little  cossetings  which  so  often 
ward  off  colds,  headaches,  and  similarly  small  ills." 

When  she  is  half  sick  from  any  of  these  same  petty 
ills,  she  can  not,  or  at  any  rate  will  not,  turn  her  back 
upon  the  kitchen  and  the  children,  and  go  off  to  the  com- 
fort and  quiet  of  half  a  day's  repose  in  her  bedroom,  with 
no  notion  of  being  intruded  upon.  Her  husband  would 
do  this  and  come  out  refreshed,  and  perhaps  cured  ;  but 
for  herself  such  *  *  laying  off "  is  generally  out  of  the 
question.  The  bread-sponge  will  be  rising  up  in  judg- 
ment against  her,  the  baby  will  be  falling  down  stairs,  or 
tumbling  into  the  well ;  the  morning  dishes  will  be  all  the 
harder  to  do  if  left  standing  ;  and  then  there  is  the  inevita- 
ble dinner,  and  the  roaring  lions  coming  home  to  it  by  and 
by  !  Of  course,  she  can  not  rest.  She  "drags  around" 
through  the  day,  and,  by  leaving  a  few  things  undone,  gets 
to  bed  by  nine  o'clock  for  the  much  needed  rest  and  sleep, 
if  she  is  not  too  ill  to  sleep,  or  if  the  possible  baby  does 
not  disturb  her. 

It  is  because  of  this  lack  of  time  for  self -nursing  that 
farmers'  wives  ought  to  take  the  best  precautions  against 
having  any  illness.  "An  ounce  of  prevention"  is  par- 
ticularly valuable  to  those  who  have  no  one  to  take  care 
of  them  when  they  become  ill. 


184          FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

Maternity  is  womanhood's  shadow  ;  and,  whether  glad 
or  sorrowful  in  its  possession,  women  are  generally  fol- 
lowed by  it  into  all  their  professions,  whether  they  be 
farm- wives,  missionaries,  or  editors  of  fashion  magazines. 
Man  seldom  has  the  care  of  children  added  to  his  business 
work.  It  would  strike  us  as  a  very  melancholy  sight  to 
see  a  man  devoting  the  energies  of  one  arm  to  a  reaper, 
while  he  holds  a  worrying  baby  in  the  other  ;  or  planting 
rows  of  potatoes  in  the  hurry  of  spring  work,  while  a  small 
infant  follows  close  at  his  heels  crying  to  be  taken  !  Such 
a  man  would  expect  half  the  town  to  rush  to  his  rescue  ; 
and  yet  these  are  like  the  sights  we  see  in  women's  work 
every  day. 

It  is  because  of  this  double  burden,  so  patiently  and 
often  so  joyously  borne,  that  women  deserve  happier  lives 
and  longer  lives  than  they  often  experience.  And  the 
fault  IS  largely  their  own  that  they  do  not  experience  them. 
Pour  upon  me  no  torrent  of  reproaches,  dear  reader,  but 
it  is  a  fact.  You  do  not  take  care  of  yourself.  In  addi- 
tion to  care  of  children  and  husband  and  the  housework, 
you  have  to  be  mother  and  nurse  to  yourself,  or  else  suf- 
fer more  or  less  from  neglect.  Did  you  ever  reflect  upon 
this  fact  ?  Years  ago  the  blessed  mother-hands  cared 
for  you  ;  you  were  not  over- worked  ;  you  had  plenty  of 
sleep,  you  had  *'good  times"  now  and  then  with  your 
friends,  and,  above  all,  you  had  something  happy  and 
beautiful  to  look  forward  to.  Now,  you  are  away  from 
the  brooding  mother- wings,  and  have  a  brood  of  your  own ; 
cares  and  duties  have  quite  banished  the  little  festivals 
and  jollifications  of  the  old  days ;  and  the  hope  and 
dream  of  your  life,  husband  and  home,  having  been 
achieved,  you  have  lost  the  healthful  stimulus  of  a  great 
hope,  and  settled  into  an  endless  round  of  housework — 
seeing  away  off  somewhere  a  vague  glimmer  of  sweet-by- 
and-by  rest,  with  the  children  grown  up  into  talented 
men  and  women,  and  still  clinging  to  you  with  the  whole- 


TO  farmers'  wites.  185 

hearted  love  of  their  childhood.  Dear  woman,  do  not 
longer  be  given  up  to  the  endless  round  of  dull,  unrelieved 
labor,  or  else  take  you  gaze  quite  away  from  that  distant 
glimmer  !  Ten  to  one  you  will  not  live  to  realize  such 
pleasant  hopes  ;  or,  if  your  life  is  prolonged,  you  will  find 
that  talented  sons  and  daughters  can  not  turn  with  the 
old  clinging  love  of  their  early  days  to  the  mother  they 
have  so  completely  outgrown  and  distanced — to  the  poor, 
old,  self-sacrificed  mother,  shrivelled,  both  in  body  and  in 
mind,  with  only  her  faithful,  loving  heart  to  feel  vaguely 
hurt  and  unsatisfied  over  the  pitying  love  which  her 
children  can  not  help  showing  for  her  !  Very  few  of  us 
can  enjoy  a  regard  in  which  is  mixed  the  element  of  com- 
passion, and  such  regard,  coming  from  child  to  parent, 
is  as  painful  as  anything  life  affords. 

There  may  be  a  deep  and  touching  beauty,  to  some 
minds,  in  such  complete  body  and  mind  sacrifice  of  the 
mother  to  housework  and  child-care  ;  but  it  is  all  wrong, 
nevertheless.  We  may  be  pardoned  for  throwing  our- 
selves into  whirlpools,  or  into  the  jaws  of  lions  and  tigers, 
to  lose  our  lives  in  saving  our  children  ;  but  to  slowly  sink, 
until  we  are  buried,  in  the  slough  of  broken-down  health 
and  mental  stagnation,  is  something  not  to  be  condoned. 

Busy  mother,  you  who  are  not  **  taking  care  "  of  your- 
self, you  who  are  toiling  early  and  late  for  husband  and 
children,  and  bestowing  less  attention  on  yourself  than 
you  would  naturally  give  to  the  commonest  four-footed 
beast  of  burden,  reflect  a  moment,  and  see  if  it  is  not  a 
solemn  duty  you  owe  to  yourself  and  to  your  husband 
and  children,  that  you  make  sure  no  such  future  opens 
before  you  !  If  you  have  thus  far  made  a  cipher  of  your- 
self, turn  a  new  leaf  at  once,  and  commence  caring  a  little 
for  the  wife  of  your  husband  and  the  mother  of  your 
children  !  You  had  a  fair  stocli  of  good  health  and  happy 
spirits  to  begin  with.  What  right  have  you  to  squander 
such  precious  capital  ?    If  attention  to  one's  own  health 


186         FARM   HOMES,   IN-DOORS  AND  OUT-DOOES. 

and  well-being  looks  **  selfish,"  it  looks  otherwise  when 
you  reflect  that  upon  your  health  and  well-being  depends 
the  happiness  and  best  welfare  of  the  household. 

I  saw  a  blessed  sight  the  other  day.  A  lady  on  the 
shady  side  of  fifty  (why  **  shady  ?"  we  ought  to  say  the 
golden  side  of  fifty  !)  going  to  her  bedroom  mirror  to 
fasten  some  pink  and  white  asters  in  her  hair  and  at  her 
collar,  before  summoning  her  husband  and  son  to  the 
neatly  spread  tea-table  that  awaited  them — no  sombre 
purple  tints,  such  as  somehow  seem  to  be  chosen  by  peo- 
ple of  "years,"  if  any  are  chosen  at  all,  but  the  bright, 
delicate  coleiir  de  rose  that  youth  likes  to  select !  And 
how  sweetly  they  looked  m  her  half-silvered  hair,  and  in 
the  soft  white  ruffle  under  her  chm  !  Her  dress  was  merely 
a  striped  print,  and  her  white  apron  of  that  ample  shape 
that  makes  aprons  worth  while  ;  but  what  neatness,  and 
what  faint  bewitching  scents  of  lavender  and  rose-leaves 
enveloped  her  person  !  I  am  afraid  she  thought  she  saw 
surprise  mingled  with  my  glance  of  admiration,  for  she 
said  "  Do  you  think  they  are  too  gay  for  me  ?"  and  added, 
as  if  half  apologizing,  "The  boys  like  to  see  me  wear 
something  pretty." 

When  the  "boys"  came  in  to  supper  I  thought  to  my- 
self that  the  mother's  neat,  personal  ways  must  have  in- 
fluenced the  other  members  of  the  household,  for  the 
working  jackets  had  been  exchanged  for  clean  linen  coats; 
and  though  very  richly  tanned,  their  faces  and  hands 
were  clean  enough  to  be  kissed  by  queens,  while  one  look- 
ed in  vain  for  the  proverbial  "hay-seed"  in  their  well 
cut  and  well-brushed  hair  and  beards.  And  what  intel- 
ligent and  up-to-the-times  talk  there  was  from  the  lips  of 
these  three  plain  farm-people  ! — the  mother  not  one  whit 
behind  her  "  boys,"  and  as  dextrous  in  her  views  of  the 
Presidency  and  Black's  n»w  story,  as  m  pouring  the  tea 
and  dispensing  the  stewed  pears. 

I  fancied  it  must  have  been  from  a  home  like  this,  or 


TO  farmers'  wives.  187 

what  it  was  before  the  pretty  daughters  married  and  went 
away,  that  our  Whittier  caught  that  song  of  **Life 
Among  the  Hills." 


'Twere  well  if  often 


To  rugged  farm-life  came  the  gift 
To  harmonize  and  soften. 

If  more  and  more  we  found  the  troth 

Of  fact  and  fancy  plighted  ; 
And  culture's  charm  and  labor's  strength 

In  rural  homes  united. 

The  simple  life,  the  homely  hearth, 

With  beauty's  sphere  enshrouding, 
And  blessing  toil  where  toil  abounds, 

With  graces  more  abounding." 

Is  not  this  a  pleasanter  home-woman  to  look  at  than 
she  who  as  some  one  says,  "begins  by  being  worth  more 
than  a  hired  girl  at  twelve  dollars  per  month,  and  ends 
in  a  nervous,  fretful,  empty-minded,  *  broken-down '  old 
woman  at  forty-five  "  ?  • 

Eeligiously  consider,  then,  a  few  little  rules  and  regu- 
lations that  will  help  you  to  maintain  health  and  to  pre- 
serve in  yourself  the  beauty  and  freshness  of  mind,  and 
looks  that  will  make  you  not  only  a  comfort  to  yourself, 
but  a  cheering  comrade  to  your  husband  and  the  fond 
friend  and  genial  companion  of  your  children.  • 

Fresh  air,  cleanliness  of  person,  comfortable  clothing, 
nourishing  food,  sufficient  sleep,  and  occasional  recreation 
and  diversion,  are  six  indispensable  requirements  for 
Good  Health.  If  I  were  addressing  any  but  a  farmer's 
wife,  or  an  active  home-keeper  anywhere,  I  should  add 
**  plenty  of  exercise,"  which  you  already  have. 

In  summer,  where  a  farm-house  is  favorably  situated, 
the  morning  work  m  kitchen  and  dairy,  and  I  trust  a 
bit  of  flower  garden,  is  all  done  in  "fresh  air."  For 
the  afternoon  there  is  generally  a  shady  porch  or  a  pleas- 
ant open  window,  where  pure,  blood-sweetening  air  can 


188         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS   AlfD   OUT-DOORS. 

still  be  enjoyed  ;  and  at  night  there  should  be  a  window 
or  two  let  down  from  the  top  in  as  spacious  a  sleeping 
room  as  the  house  will  admit  of.  Small  bedrooms  ought 
never  to  enter  into  a  house  plan.  In  winter,  fresh  air  is 
not  so  easily  obtained,  or  its  absence  so  easily  detected. 
Shut  up  in  the  house  the  greater  part  of  the  time,  you 
fail  to  notice  its  vitiated  atmosphere ;  but  go  out  for  a 
walk  or  a  ride,  and  you  will  discover  on  returning  to  the 
unventilated  living-room  (it  ought  to  be  called  a  dying- 
room  !)  a  '* close,"  impure  taint  m  the  air.  And  this  is 
the  kind  of  stuff  you  breathe  all  the  time,  unless  you 
make  some  arrangements  for  letting  the  foul  air  escape. 
You  must  not  tolerate  its  presence  any  more  than  you 
would  that  of  toads  and  snakes.  A  window  let  down  a 
little  from  the  top  will  permit  great  quantities  of  bad  air 
to  escape,  and  the  fresh  air  will  find  a  way  to  replace  it 
somehow.  Your  husband  and  school-going  children 
will  find  a  good  deal  of  their  air  out  of  doors,  and  you 
are  entitled  to  the  besf  you  can  make  of  the  in-door  at- 
mosphere. 

A  room  with  a  warm  floor,  plenty  of  sunlight,  and  an 
outlet  for  impure  air,  is  the  only  one  fit  to  be  chosen  for 
a  winter  living  or  working  room. 

If  you  have  a  bath-room  in  the  house  capable  of  being 
con^'ortably  warmed  m  winter,  and  affording  its  cool 
showers  and  douches  m  summer,  with  pipes  to  bring  and 
carry  away  water,  you  have  one  of  the  greatest  luxuries 
of  civilization.  If  you  have  not  such  a  room,  fit  up  some 
closet  for  the  purpose,  and  have  a  stovc-pipe  run  through 
it  from  the  kitchen  or  living-room  stove— or  perhaps  the 
bedroom  stove  may  be  placed  near  enough  to  warm  it 
through  the  open  door.  If  you  must  depend  upon  your 
own  resources  for  its  arrangements,  you  may  be  obliged 
to  content  yourself  with  a  common  tub  large  enough  to 
stand  and  bathe  in  without  slopping  the  floor,  and  a  large 
tin  pail  for  bringing  and  carrying  away  the  water.     I 


TO   FAKMERS'   WIVES.  189 

have  seen  a  half -barrel  cut  down  and,  with  cushioned 
edges,  made  into  a  very  good  sitz-bath  tub.  (Those  made 
of  zinc  or  tin  cost  three  or  four  dollars.)  There  should 
be  a  sponge  for  each  individual,  and  always  plenty  of  dry 
towels.  A  bottle  of  ammonia  and  some  good  Castile 
soap  should  never  be  wanting.  If  there  is  a  window  for 
sunlight  to  come  pouring  through  for  half  the  day,  so 
much  the  better ;  the  place  can  then  be  easily  kept  dry 
and  well  aired. 

And  now,  after  making  sure  of  your  fresh  air,  will  you 
try,  if  you  have  not  tried,  the  rejuvenating  influence 
of  a  daily  bath  ?  You  may  thmk  you  have  no  time  for 
it.  I  often  notice  that  those  mothers  who  have  **no, 
time  "  have  houses  and  children  in  spic  and  span  order, 
while  they  themselves  look  neglected  and  jaded,  and 
sometimes,  alas !  just  a  little  negligent  in  their  dress. 
It  IS  like  the  vine-leaves  and  blossoms  dancing  high  up  in 
the  air  and  sunlight,  while  low  down  in  the  darkness  and 
shadow  grows  the  unlovely,  unnoticed  mother-root  that 
gives  them  life.  Such  maternity  is  more  beautiful  in 
vines  than  it  is  in  human  life.  Take  a  few  moments 
from  your  housework  and  your  child-care  for  yourself. 
Once  in  the  habit  of  a  daily  bath,  it  comes  as  natural  and 
requires  almost  as  little  time  as  washing  your  face  and 
hands.  Just  before  going  to  bed  is  the  best  time  for  it. 
You  are  not  only  certain  of  being  uninterrupted,  but  you 
will  find  yourself  so  refreshed  and  "rested"  that  good 
sound  sleep  will  at  once  follow.  Quickness  and  thor- 
oughness will  always  prevent  any  "catching  cold"  or 
any  disagreeable  chill ;  and  so  five  minutes  is  ample  time 
for  an  all-over  bath.  The  water  should  be  nearer  warm 
than  cold,  and  there  need  not  be  an  ocean  of  it ;  two 
quarts  in  the  washbowl,  with  a  few  drops  of  aromatic 
ammonia  and  a  large,  soft  sponge,  constitute  all  that  is 
needed  where  baths  are  taken  every  day.  After  the  bath 
a  well-aired  night  gown  of  cotton  or  flannel  should  be  put 


190  FARM-HOMES,    IN-DOOES   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

on,  and  the  flannels  and  chemises  worn  through  the  day 
hung  where  they  will  be  accessible  to  air.  Our  clothes 
are  continually  absorbing  waste  and  putrid  matter  through 
the  pores  of  the  skin,  and  it  is  strictly  necessary  to  per- 
sonal cleanlmess,  that  day-garments  should  not  be  worn 
through  the  night,  but  be  given  a  chance  to  throw  off 
something  of  the  invisible  impurities  they  have  collected. 

In  the  morning,  the  busy  morning,  when  so  many 
things  to  be  done  confront  your  waking  eyes,  you  have 
only  to  take  a  dash  of  cold  water  on  your  face,  chest,,  and 
arms,  and  proceed  to  dress.  For  this  morning  ablution 
a  bottle  of  brine  made  from  sea-salt  is  excellent  to  have 
at  hand.  Pour  a  little  upon  a  wet  cloth,  or  sponge,  and 
rub  face,  breast,  and  arm-pits.  It  purifies  and  invigo- 
rates the  skin.  Sitz-baths  in  blood- warm  water  should 
be  taken  once  a  week  for  the  space  of  five  or  ten  minutes. 
They  help  prevent  many  of  the  diseases  and  weaknesses 
that  woman-flesh  seems  to  be  heir  to. 

Secure  another  five  minutes  from  your  twonty-four 
hours,  and  devote  it  to  your  hair  and  teetli.  If  the  scalp 
is  washed  once  or  twice  a  week  in  water  in  which  is  dis- 
solved a  little  borax,  or  in  which  is  mixed  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia,  it  will  need  no  raking  from  ivory  teeth,  and 
the  hair  will  be  clean  and  glossy,  especially  if  thoroughly 
brushed  with  a  stiff  brush  once  a  day.  Never  use  oils  or 
pomades.  If  the  hair  is  too  dry  and  fluffy  for  comfort 
(it  cannot  be  too  much  so  for  fashion — at  present !),  ap- 
ply to  it  a  little  of  the  mixture  of  bay-rum  and  glycer- 
ine, which  druggists  will  put  up  for  twenty-five  cents. 
Every  new  moon,  clip  the  ends  of  your  hair  ;  this  may  be 
a  "notion,"  but  it  is  one  that  repays  adoption. 

If  you  have  sound  teeth,  you^  cannot  be  too  grateful 
for  such  a  possession,  and  should  not  grudge  giving  them 
such  care  as  will  preserve  them,  if  possible,  into  old  age. 
Brush  them  thoroughly  at  night  in  soap  and  water,  in 
which  is  a  drop  of  the  ever  useful  ammonia,  and  rinse 


TO   FAKMEKS'   WIVES.  191 

mouth  and  throat  in  clear  water.  After  each  meal  but 
half  a  minute  will  be  required  to  rinse  the  mouth,  so  that 
no  particle  of  food  may  remain  in  the  teeth  to  breed  tar- 
tar and  decay.  If  there  are  bad  teeth  that  are  past  filling, 
summon  a  little  grit  and  have  them  removed  at  once ; 
as  besides  being  unsightly  they  are  like  constant  ma- 
laria to  the  lungs.  If  one  is  afflicted  with  bad  breath, 
even  if  the  teeth  are  sound,  the  stomach  needs  atten- 
tion, and  a  series  of  charcoal  powders  with  plain  diet 
will  soon  correct  its  evil  ways. 

White  and  soft  hands  are  not  always  compatible  with 
big  ironings  and  all  the  miscellaneous  work  of  a  farm- 
kitchen,  but  your  hands  can  receive  better  treatment 
than  you  perhaps  give  them.  *^My  mamma's  hands 
are  white,  and  she  wears  a  pretty  ring,"  boasted  one 
little  four-year  old  to  a  playmate  who,  with  ;^tifully 
downcast  eyes  and  mute  lips,  was  realizing  the  fact 
that  her  mamma's  hands  were  nothing  to  brag  of. 
Both  these  mothers  were  busy  workers,  but  oi^e  **took 
care"  of  herself  a  little,  while  the  other  did  not,  and 
kept  her  rings  in  a  box. 

It  is  not  vanity  or  silliness  to  make  the  best  of  even 
our  hands.  In  sweeping  floors,  polishing  stoves,  and  in 
garden  work,  old  gloves  should  always  be  worn ;  and 
there  should  be  plenty  of  holders  about  the  stove  for 
managing  kettles,  and  saucepans,  and  taking  things  from 
the  oven.  An  excellent  thing  in  winter  is  a  thick  flan- 
nel mitten  made  large  enough  to  slip  on  easily,  and  hung 
handily  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  to  be  used  in  opening 
the  stove  and  putting  in  wood.  At  night  a  little  glycer- 
ine thinned  with  lemon  juice  and  rubbed  on  the  hands 
will  tend  to  keep  them  goft  and  prevent  roughness  and 
chapping.  This  mixture  is  also  excellent  for  burning 
from  wind  and  sun. 

Glycerine,  borax,  ammonia,  sea-salt,  and  lemon  juice, 
are  all   cheap  and   excellent  ** cosmetics"  and  aids  to 


IdZ         FARM    HOMES,    IX-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

cleanliness  ;  and  if  to  these  can  be  added  a  bottle  of  some 
pure,  delicate  perfume,  like  essence  of  English  violet,  or 
white  rose,  your  toilet  table  is  quite  plentifully  supplied. 

The  next  question  to  consider  is  comfortable  and  be- 
coming clothing,  for  notwithstanding  the  seeming  im- 
possibility of  the  task,  they  can  be  combined.  There 
is  a  happy  medium  between  the  grotesque  ''bloomer"  of 
thirty  years  ago  and  the  peacock  tails  of  the  present  day, 
that  brave  women  can  and  do  adopt  everywhere,  and  still 
are  within  that  very  proper  region  that  is  bounded  by 
the  pales  of  fashion.  There  is  a  woman  living  who  years 
ago  very  quietly  made  for  herself  some  under  garments 
somewhat  like  close-fitting  basqumes,  so  that  with  ro»ws 
of  buttons  around  the  waists  and  ruffles  at  the  bottom, 
they  answered  for  four  articles  of  dress,  viz. ,  chemise,  cor- 
set, skirt-supporter,  and  underskirt.  She  has  worn  them 
ever  since  with  great  comfort  and  satisfaction,  and  has 
never  thought  of  being  strong-minded  or  blowing  a  ''re- 
form "  tfumpet  over  her  self-emancipation. 

If  you  Hve  anywhere  withm  our  so-called  temperate 
zone,  you  should  wear  under  flannels  throughout  the  year. 
It  IS  not  necessary  to  proclaim  their  great  comfort  m 
winter,  for  you  are  well  aware  of  it ;  but  you  may  not 
know  that  you  will  be  cooler  and  more  comfortable  in 
summer  for  wearing  them,  and  greatly  protected  from 
chilly  morning  and  evening  air,  and  from  sudden  changes 
in  the  weather.  Summer  flannel  can  be  of  light  quality, 
and  that  made  of  half  wool  and  half  cotton  is  less  liable 
to  shrink,  and  answers  every  purpose  of  protection. 
Those  for  winter  wear  should  be  of  all-wool  flannel  and 
made  high  in  the  neck,  and  with  sleeves  coming  below 
the  elbow.  Whether  for  summer  or  winter  wear,  they 
should  be  made  long  enough  to  cover  the  hips.  A  great 
many  ladies  now  wear  winter  flannels  in  vest  and  drawers 
combined  in  one  garment,  with  another  "union  suit"  in 
cotton  worn  over  it ;  then  with  a  warm  balmoral  skirt 


TO   FARMEES'   WIVES.  193 

and  sensible  woollen  stockings,  no  more  underwear  is  ro^ 
quired. 

This  is  such  an  improvement  on  the  old  regulation  of 
separate  under  flannels,  chemise,  drawers,  corset,  under- 
skirt, overskirt,  and  perhaps  a  dress  divided  into  a  basque 
and  two  additional  skirts,  that  no  woman  who  has  once 
tried  the  delightful  comfort  of  dressing  so  sensibly  will 
go  back  to  the  irksome  and  complicated  toggery  she  used 
to  wear. 

Let  us  dress  as  comfortably  and  at  the  same  time  as 
becomingly  as  we  can.  How  much  of  our  nervousness, 
and  irritability,  and  weariness,  might  be  traced  to  a  drag- 
ging skirt,  or  the  compression  of  half  a  dozen  bands 
about  the  waist,  or  a  "hateful"  corset,  or  an  ill-fitting 
or  out-of -fash ion  dress  !  To  be  clean  and  to  be  comfort- 
ably and  tastefully  dressed  is  the  condition  that  is  indeed 
**next  to  godliness."  Have  we  not  often  seen  the  good 
effect  of  a  bath  and  a  clean,  nicely-ironed  frock  or  apron 
upon  some  tired,  dirt-demoralized  little  child  ?  And 
what  are  we  but  children,  to  be  overcome  now  and  then 
by  the  dust  and  grime  of  our  work  and  the  depressing 
influence  of  a  faded  calico  !  When  we  find  ourselves  m 
such  sloughs,  let  us  lose  no  time  in  getting  out  of  them. 

Being  a  farm-wife,  and  not  accustomed  to  the  more 
leisurely  mornings  of  **  eight-hour"  workers,  you  must 
have  clothes  into  which  you  can  jump,  as  it  were. 
And  is  it  not  just  as  easy  to  jump  into  a  pretty,  nicely- 
fittmg  percale  or  gingham  working-costume,  with  its 
clean  collar  or  ruff  already  basted  m  the  neck,  as  it 
is  to  jump  mto  a  limp,  stringy  calico  *' wrapper"  of 
some  dark,  ugly  pattern,  and  having  about  as  much 
comeliness  as  a  meal-sack  with  a  string  tied  around 
its  center  ?  Percales  and  ginghams  cost  a  trifle  more 
at  the  start,  but  they  will  outwear  and  out  wash  half 
a  dozen  cheap  prints ;  and  besides  will  always  look 
fresh  and  new  if  light,  firm  colors  are  selected. 
9 


194  FARM   HOMES,    IN^-DOORS   AI^-D   OUT-DOORS. 

^  There  are  always  to  be  found  neat  and  simple,  and  at 
tne  same  time  stylish  patterns  for  making  up  these  work- 
ing suits  in  one  garment,  the  trimming  being  put  on  to 
simulate  jackets  or  sacques.  The  skirts  should  be  made 
short  enough  to  escape  dust  and  dew,  say  within  four  or 
five  inches  of  the  floor,  and  one  cannot  realize  until  she 
wears  a  dress  so  shortened,  the  increased  ease  and  dis- 
patch with  which  work  can  be  accomplished. 

Always  maintain  a  good  supply  of  collars  and  ruffles. 
Their  cost  ready  made  is  trifling,  and  they  are  still 
cheaper  when  made  at  home ;  half  a  yard  of  linen, 
the  same  of  book-muslin  or  organdy,  and  a  little  edg- 
ing, will  make  up  a  year's  supply  for  every-day  wear; 
and  no  '* trifle"  adds  so  much  to  woman's  dress  as 
something  pure  and  white  about  the  neck,  fastened 
with  a  becoming  knot  of  ribbon  or  an  inexpensive  little 
brooch. 

If  you  make  it  a  rule  to  baste  or  pin  something  of 
this  sort  in  the  neck  of  your  dress  after  undressing 
at  night,  it  will  be  something  of  a  help  toward  exj^e- 
ditious  dressing  m  the  morning. 

Morning  caps  of  book-muslin,  cambric,  or  lace — a  cir- 
cular piece  of  the  material  gathered  into  a  band  of  velvet 
or  ribbon  to  fit  the  head — are  exceedingly  convenient,  and 
can  be  made  very  becoming;  besides,  they  protect  the 
hair  from  dust  when  sweeping. 

Remember  that  you  are  to  be  "mother"  to  yourself  ! 
You  do  not  permit  the  children  to  leave  the  warm  room 
and  go  out  in  the  cold  or  damp  to  play  without  an  extra 
tfecarf  or  cape.  You  do  not  let  them  keep  on  their  wet 
shoes  and  damp  stockings  when  they  come  home  from 
school  on  a  stormy  day.  If  they  have  sore  throats,  and 
colds,  and  little  bad  feelings,  you  wrap  up  their  necks, 
give  them  simple  remedies,  and  try  to  keep  them  from 
getting  worse.  See  that  you  are  half  as  considerate  to 
yourself — unless  you  are  anxious  to  leave  them  mother- 


TO  Farmers'  wives.  195 

less !  Don't  run  out  of  the  heated  kitclien  to  wrestle 
with  the  line  full  of  frozen  clothes,  bare-heiided  and 
thinly  shod.  Don't  sit  up  sewing  at  night  and  let  the 
fire  go  out,  thinking  it  silly  to  burn  wood  just  for  your- 
self. Don't  sit  up  at  all  beyond  bedtime  iiours,  unless 
it  is  a  case  of  sickness  or  some  strictly  necessary  sew- 
ing, and  then  do  not  go  cold  and  shivering,  or  faint 
and  hungry,  to  bed ;  but  keep  a  comfortable  fire,  and 
before  retiring  take  a  cup  of  hot  milk  and  tea,  and 
some  bread  and  butter,  or  a  bowl  of  chicken  broth  or 
oyster  soup.  Never  keep  damp  stockings  and  shoes  on 
your  feet  or  sit  in  a  room  where  you  feel  chilly.  If  you 
have  headache,  or  backache,  or  a  *' wretched  cold" 
(you  will  not  be  troubled  with  these  ills  very  much  if  you 
take  good  sanitary  precautions  against  them),  do  not 
try  the  sometimes  too  smart  remedy  of  "working  it  off," 
but  coddle  yourself  to  the  best  of  your  ability,  and  let  at 
least  a  part  of  the  work  await  the  sure  coming  of  another 
day,  and  do  not  **fret"  about  it,  else  the  shirking  will 
do  no  good;  but  just  rest  a  little  and  get  well.  Do 
not  wear  tight  or  dragging  clotlies.  When  going  to  ride 
in  winter,  put  on  an  extra  pair  of  stockings  and  button 
a  newspaper  or  a  piece  of  flannel  inside  your  dress  over 
your  chest  and  lungs. 

Be  friendly  and  good  to  your  stomach.  Do  not  live 
on  hot  biscuits,  incessant  pork,  pie-crust,  cake,  and  del- 
uges of  tea  and  coffee.  The  farm  generally  affords  plenty 
of  milk,  eggs,  poultry,  wheat,  fruit,  and  vegetables.  You 
are  surrounded  with  a  world  of  delicious  and  healthful 
foods.  As  for  tea  and  coffee,  they  are  not  food  at  all, 
except  for  the  accompanying  sugar  and  cream.  But 
one  cup  of  good  coffee,  or  one  cup  of  good  tea,  does 
no  one  any  great  harm,  and  is  often  the  gentle  stimulant 
and  "care-breaker"  that  a  woman  needs.  It  is  an  out- 
rage on  the  stomach  to  drown  it  at  meal  times  with  any 
kind  of  fluid,  ice-water  being  the  most  hurtful  of  all. 


196         FARM   HOMES,    IN'-DOOnS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

It  is  your  right  to  have  eight  or  nine  hours  out  of  the 
twenty-four  for  sleep.  Let  nothing  but  sickness  shove 
aside  this  important  corner-stone  of  health.  It  is  all 
wrong  to  rise  at  day-dawn  in  summer,  and  long  before 
sunrise  in  winter,  feeling  only  half  rested,  and  as  if  you 
would  **give  the  world"  for  one  more  hour  of  sleep. 
Nothing  is  gained  by  lashing  nature  on  to  extraordinary 
feats  of  endurance.  Sooner  or  later  she  will  show  that 
she  does  not  submit  to  such  things  without  ample  re- 
venge. If  there  are  portions  of  the  year  when  farm- 
work,  and  consequently  housework,  must  be  rushed,  or 
it  seems  necessary  to  use  the  **cool  of  the  day,"  viz.,  be- 
tween four  and  six  o'clock  a.  m.  ,  an  afternoon  nap,  even 
if  it  lasts  but  ten  minutes,  will  go  far  to  soothe  the  nerve- 
weariness  that  comes  of  lost  sleep.  Indeed,  my  home- 
keeper,  a  ten-minute  nap  is  always  beneficial  to  you  ;  and 
when  you  lay  your  baby  down  for  his  after-dinner  repose, 
remember  that  you,  too,  are  in  need  of  a  little  refreshing 
rest.  Lie  down  beside  him,  or  what  is  better,  lie  down 
away  from  him,  and  resolutely  close  your  eyes  for  fifteen 
minutes,  whether  you  sleep  or  not.  You  will  rise  feeling 
stronger  and  clear-headed,  and  the  afternoon  work  will 
come  easier  to  you  than  if  you  had  plodded  on  without 
stopping. 

Plan  easily-prepared  breakfasts  and  suppers,  and  have 
the  brunt  of  the  day's  work  in  the  forenoon,  when  you 
will  naturally  feel  most  like  grappling  with  it.  There 
are  some  women  who  are  always  in  a  whirlpool  of  work, 
yet  they  do  not  accomplish  as  much  as  their  calmer  and 
more  systematic  sisters,  who  find  time  for  a  little  reading 
or  out-door  recreation  now  and  then.  To  rise  in  the 
morning  and  cook  potatoes,  bake  biscuits,  fry  or  broil 
meats,  spread  the  table,  attend  to  small  children,  and 
strain  and  set  away  the  morning  milk,  as  I  have  seen 
more  than  one  farm-wife  do,  is  enough  to  tire  one  out  in 
the  very  beginning  of  the  day.    A  breakfast  of  white  and 


TO  farmers'  wives.  197 

graham  bread,  cold  roast  or  boiled  meat,  hashed  pota- 
toes, oat  or  wheat  grits,  and  some  kind  of  fruit,  is  good 
enough  for  kings  and  emperors,  and  it  almost  cooks  itself. 
The  same  bill  of  fare,  varied  by  an  omelet,  or  milk-toast, 
or  baked  potatoes,  or  an  easily-made  johnny  cake,  an- 
swers equally  well  for  supper,  and  what  a  vast  amount  of 
flurry  and  fluster  might  be  saved  by  its  adoption. 

Do  not  neglect  that  world  within  your  head  ! — that 
brain-world  wherein  you  used  to  dream  fine  dreams,  and 
build  many  an  airy  castle  !  Do  not  give  up  hopes  and 
aspirations  and  special  tastes.  If  you  once  loved  to 
"twang  the  guitar,"  or  "sweep  the  dulcimer,"  or  had  a 
talent  for  drawing,  or  writing  for  the  newspapers,  or  pos- 
sessed a  gentle  taste  for  botanizing,  and  collecting  shells 
and  minerals  and  butterflies,  continue  to  cultivate  the 
faculty.  A  gratified  longing  for  such  things  is  just  as 
necessary  for  the  mind's  welfare  as  gratified  hunger  for 
beef  and  vegetables  is  necessaiy  for  the  physical  well- 
being.  Interest  your  children  in  these  things,  and 
among  them  you  will  be  sure  to  find  more  than  one  eager 
and  sympathetic  co-worker. 

Above  all,  do  not  turn  your  back  upon  good  reading. 
Subscribe  to  nothing  weak  and  trashy.  A  good  practical 
newspaper,  such  as  treats  of  the  household,  the  garden, 
and  the  farm,  and  some  first-class  journal  filled  with 
stories,  poems,  sketches,  and  science  articles,  by  talented 
and  scholarly  authors,  are  worth  tons  of  "pictorials" 
and  cheap  romances. 

Have  something  "going  forward,"  if  it  is  nothing 
more  than  the  cultivation  of  new  kinds  of  strawberries 
and  chickens,  a  winter  reading  club  of  three  or  four 
neighbors,  or  a  pleasant  little  annual  excursion,  or 
"camp-out,"  on  some  lake-side  or  mountain-top  with 
your  children.  Beware  of  the  "  all  work  and  no  play  " 
that  breaks  down  health  and  spirits,  and  starves  the 
mind."    And  do  not  depend  entirely  upon  your  husband 


198  FARM   HOMES,    IN'-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOORS. 

for  all  the  happiness  and  good  cheer  of  your  life,  else  yon 
will  sometimes  be  disappointed  and  disheartened.  Di- 
verting occupations,  friendship,  good  books,  and  the  care 
and  companionship  of  children,  will  healthfully  fill  any 
voids  in  your  heart  that  otherwise  might  ache  ;  and  at 
any  rate  you  will  be  cared  for  none  the  less  if  you  prove 
yourself  able  to  worry  along  without  constant  adoration. 
In  a  word,  take  care  of  yourself  physically,  mentally, 
and  spiritually,  and  we  shall  see  fewer  sad-faced,  hope- 
less-eyed women  in  our  farm-homes,  and  fewer  bereaved 
husbands  casting  about  for  their  second  and  third  wives. 


CHAPTER    XIV. 
REARING   AND    TRAINING    OF   CHILDREN. 

Every  mother  should  bear  in  mind  that  it  is  easier  to 
keep  children  well  than  it  is  to  cure  them  after  they  be- 
come ill.  A  few  simple  rules,  faithfully  and  unflinch- 
ingly observed,  would  banish  nine-tenths  of  the  sicknesses 
among  children  that  too  often  lead  to  fatal  results. 

Give  them  in  the  first  place  plenty  of  love — expressions 
of  love  !  Oftentimes  fathers  and  mothers  deeply  love 
their  children,  yet  show  such  little  evidence  of  affection 
that  the  children  are  apt  to  have  a  forlorn  feeling  that  it 
doesn't  exist  at  all.  An  occasional  word  of  praise,  a 
caress,  an  expression  of  sympathy — these  are  necessary  to 
healthy  and  happy  child-life  as  summer-showers  to  grow- 
ing vines.  Especially  bear  this  in  mind,  they  should  never 
go  to  bed  cold,  or  hungry,  or  unhappy. 

Let  them  have  plenty  of  healthy  and  palatable  food, 
at  regular  hours.  Small  children  should  have  a  slice  of 
bread  and  butter,  or  an  apple,  or  some  simple  *'bite," 
half  way  between  meals,  and  nothing  more  in  the  v^ay  of 


REARING   AND   TRAINING   OF   CHILDREN.  199 

lunclies.  It  is  the  constant  nibbling  and  '^  piecing  "  that 
does  harm.  Never  force  a  child  to  eat  anything  he  has 
a  real  dislike  for.  When  plain  food  is  declined  because 
of  the  more  tempting  dessert  ahead,  it  is  a  different 
affair ;  but  I  have  seen  little  children  compelled  to  eat 
things,  when  every  mouthful  would  be  swallowed  vrith 
tremendous  eifort  and  genuine  disgust.  Some  of  us  have 
an  utter  abhorrence  of  onions  or  tomatoes,  or  codfish,  or 
some  article  of  food  that  ought  to  be  relished.  How  would 
we  like  to  have  some  mighty  giant  put  such  food  upon 
our  plates,  and  compel  us  to  eat  it  amid  wild  flourishes 
of  his  knotted  club  ?  Would  we  sweetly  feel  that  the 
dear  giant  knew  what  was  best  for  us,  and  proceed  to 
swallow  every  mouthful  ?  or  would  we  say  to  ourselves — 
*' We'll  eat  it,  because  we  must,  but  we  hate  it  all  the 
same,  and  we  hate  you,  too  !"  Children  have  as  much 
right  to  their  likes  and  dislikes  as  we  have  to  ours. 

Thorough,  all-over  baths  should  be  given  to  the  little 
people  once  a  week,  at  least,  and  in  summer  oftener. 
They  should  be  given  in  comfortable  rooms,  out  of 
draughts,  and  the  water  should  never  be  colder  than  new 
milk.  Rub  the  skin  thoroughly  dry  with  coarse  soft 
towels,  and  put  on  the  night-dresses  or  clothing  imme- 
mediately.  Often  severe  colds  and  fever  attacks  can  be 
broken  up  by  giving  the  bath  as  warm  as  it  can  bo  borne, 
putting  the  child  comfortably  to  bed,  laying  a  handker- 
chief wrung  from  cold  water  on  the  forehead,  or  where- 
ever  the  ache  is,  and  giving  him-  all  the  cold  water  and 
pounded  ice  that  he  wants.  One  mother  writes  that  she 
has  never  had  any  serious  sickness  in  her  family  of  five 
children.  At  first  complaints  of  headache,  thirst,  weari- 
ness, and  *^  toothache  in  the  legs,"  as  our  little  girl 
called  it,  she  undresses  and  gently  bathes  the  child,  puts  on 
a  warm,  comfortable  wrapper,  and  lays  him  in  bed,  rub- 
bing the  "  toothache  "  with  her  hands  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  perhaps  staying  to  tell  a  pleasant  story,  or  to  sing  a 


200  FAEM  HOMES,    IJ^^-DOORS  At^B   OUT-DOORS. 

lullaby,  if  the  child  is  small.  If  she  must  attend  to 
housework,  she  leaves  the  bedroom  door  open,  so  that 
while  the  patient  is  composed  and  quiet,  he  still  has  the 
feeling  of  not  being  left  alone.  In  almost  every  instance 
a  sweet,  restful  slumber  follows  ;  and,  by  extra  attention 
to  diet  and  out-door  wraps,  the  child  is  as  weU  as  ever  in 
twenty-four  hours.'"  This  modest  mother  does  not  lay  any 
stress  on  her  pleasant  stories  and  lullabys,  but  no  doubt 
her  gentle  and  cheerful  "way "with  her  children  goes 
far  to  banish  the  demons  of  serious  sickness. 

Children  should  always  wear  flannel  vests — thin  and 
light  for  summer,  and  of  heavier  quality,  long  sleeved 
and  high-necked,  for  winter,  and  always  long  enough  to 
cover  the  hips.  Flannel  over  the  bowels,  especially  for 
teething  children,  is  very  beneficial.  It  is  no  wonder 
that  the  **  second  summer  "  is  a  trying  one  for  the  babies, 
since  they  are  often  clad  in  thin,  short,  cotton  garments, 
in  which  they  are  exposed  to  all  the  variations  of  atmos- 
phere between  sunrise  and  bedtime. 

Be  sure  that  children  have  comfortable  clothing — cloth- 
ing that  never  pinches  or  scratches,  or  feels  as  if  slipping 
off.  It  is  not  in  human  nature,  young  or  old,  to  tran- 
quilly endure  irritable  clothing,  and  boots  or  shoes  that 
torture.  Make  the  clothes,  firstly,  to  be  comfortable ; 
secondly,  to  be  neat  and  becoming.  Flannels  should 
always  be  loose,  and  waists  well  fitting,  but  not  in  the 
least  tight,  and  provided  with  buttons  for  drawers  and 
skirts.  The  only  garters  fit  to  be  worn  are  those  of  elastic 
that  fasten  to  the  waist  and  top  of  the  stockings.  They 
cost  fifteen  or  twenty  cents,  and  by  supplying  fresh  elastics 
now  and  then,  will  last  through  a  whole  childhood.  It  is 
said  to  be  beneficial  for  children  to  go  barefooted  during 
hot  weather,  but  a  good  lookout  must  be  maintained  for 
the  broken  glass,  nails,  and  the  rubbish  that  sometimes 
abounds  on  uncivilized  premises ;  and  no  expedition  to 
field  or  woods  should  be  entered  upon  without  long  stock- 


EEARIi^^G   A^D  TRAINIIS^G   OF   CHILDREjq-.  201 

ings  and  stout  boots  or  shoes.  In  winter  some  inside 
soles  of  felt,  or  even  of  thick  paper,  add  much  to  the 
warmth  and  dryness  of  the  feet ;  and  ear-muffs  and  wrist- 
lets, though  small  enough  in  themselyes,  are  big  rein- 
forcements against  chills  and  frost-bites  that  otherwise 
will  come. 

Never  hamper  and  torment  childreS^  with  clothes  that 
are  *'too  nice  "to  be  anything  but  wretched  in.  They 
may  be  taught  reasonable  care  in  regard  to  soiling  their 
clothes,  but  to  see  a  child  in  a  constant  spiritual  straight- 
jacket,  for  fear  the  mud-cakes,  or  the  game  of  marbles, 
or  the  jolly  romp  will  soil  the  knees,  or  *'muss"  the 
apron,  or  dissarrange  the  hair,  is  an  indication  of  idiotic 
parentage.  There  are  cheap,  light,  half-wool  fabrics, 
sold  in  gray,  and  in  brown  plaids  and  stripes,  that,  piped 
with  bright  colors,  make  up  into  excellent  dresses  or 
blouses  for  little  folks,  being  just  as  cool  as  print  and 
gingham,  requiring  no  starching  when  washed,  and  not 
soiling  or  rumpling  easily. 

Let  the  children  have  plenty  of  sleep.  I  have  seen 
young  children,  almost  infants,  wakened  and  made  to 
get  up  two  hours  before  their  natural  sleep  was  finished, 
merely  because  it  was  thought  best  that  they  should  '^eat 
breakfast  with  the  others."  Again,  imagine  yourself 
in  the  hands  of  a  giant,  and  being  hauled  out  of  bed 
while  in  the  midst  of  profound  and  refreshing  slumber, 
just  for  the  privilege  of  eating  breakfast  with  a  lot  of 
other  giants  who  grin  at  you  if  you  are  cross,  and  per- 
haps vigorously  spank  you,  some  one  of  them,  if  you  say 
or  do  anything  expressive  of  your  wretched  feelings. 
There  are  no  healthy  children  who  take  more  sleep  than 
they  need;  and  yet  we  often  see  young  boys  ** routed" 
before  sunrise  and  set  to  work,  with  empty  stomachs  and 
dizzy  heads,  at  chores  that  might  just  as  well  await  the 
coming  of  a  decent  haur.  Let  us  all  pray  to  be  preserved 
from  that  slashing,  mule-headed,  and  generally  ignorant 


202         FARM   HOMES,    IN-DOORS  AKD   OUT-DOOES. 

farmer  who  ** drives"  everything  before  him,  including 
his  wife  and  children  !  In  the  long  run  he  comes  out  a 
good  ways  behind  his  more  eflBicient  and  more  enlight- 
ened neighbor,  who  takes  things  easily  and  does  things 
pleasantly,  and  steers  clear  of  that  kind  of  haste  which 
makes  waste.  The  first  step  toward  making  boys  **hate 
the  farm  "  is  to  cut  down  their  rightful  hours  of  sleep, 
and  make  the  beginning  of  every  day  thoroughly  wretched 
to  them. 

Children  can  hardly  be  too  much  in  the  *'open  air." 
We  all  observe  how  much  healthier  and  happier  they  are 
in  the  bright  dry  weather  with  which  we  are  blessed  for 
a  portion  of  the  year.  With  the  long,  cold  rains  of 
autumn  begins  the  dismal  time  for  birds  and  children ; 
and  even  we  grown  people,  in  spite  of  our  work  and  our 
mental  resources,  feel  depressed  and  saddened.  To  the 
children's  loss  of  soft  breezes,  warm  sunlight,  and  the 
freedom  of  all  out- doors,  is  added  the  crushing  knowledge 
that  they  ''make  tracks,"  that  they  "litter  the  carpet," 
and  they  "kill  people  with  their  noise."  In  our  North- 
ern States  there  will  be  five  or  six  months  of  this  sort  of 
thing.  Now,  much  of  the  winter  discomfort  to  all  par- 
ties might  be  saved  if  children  had  such  clothes  as  would 
enable  them  to  be  out  at  play  a  part  of  the  time  even  in 
forbidding  weather.  No  matter  how  coarse  and  plain 
the  clothes  if  they  are  warm  and  stout,  and  as  waterproof 
as  possible.  An  investment  in  thick,  high-buttoned 
over-shoes,  and  extra  cloaks  and  jackets  is,  of  course, 
pleasanter  and  less  expensive  than  an  investment  in 
doc  tor- visits.  To  be  sure  doctor-visits  are  not  alwa3'S  the 
alternative,  but  the  better  the  regimen  under  which 
children  live,  the  fewer  visits  of  this  sort.  As  for 
"toughening"  children  by  sending  them  half -dressed  in 
the  damp  or  biting  air,  none  but  ignorant  and  stupid 
parents  do  such  things,  our  churchyards  are  already  suf- 
ficiently full  of  little  graves.     Give  the  children  warm 


BEARING   AND  TEAINING   OF  CHILDEEN.  203 

feet,  something  over  their  ears,  and  good  staunch  flannels 
between  them  and  Jack  Frost,  and  they  will  grow  up 
far  stronger  and  "  tougher  "  than  the  poor  little  shiver- 
ing ones  who  have  to  pull  their  heads  into  their  shoulders 
and  huddle  themselves  together  like  calves  in  a  winter's 
storm,  for  lack  of  sensible  clothes. 

It  is  a  fact  that  country  children  suffer  for  want  of 
pleasant  and  improving  amusements.  Says  a  writer  in 
one  of  our  farm  monthlies  : 

"A  small  dwelling,  stable,  cornfield,  working  team, 
farm  tools,  and  the  usual  farm  stock  comprise  the  home 
companions  and  articles  connected  with  the  employment 
and  every-day  life  of  seventy-five  per  cent  of  farmers' 
children.  Day  by  day  they  meet  with  these  or  some  of 
them,  their  monotonous  life  goes  on  ever  the  same,  and 
their  love  for  the  beautiful  lies  undeveloped  and  dormant ; 
their  opinions  and  tastes  are  unheeded,  or  are  not  brought 
out,  and  finally  that  which  might  be  developed  into 
something  really  praiseworthy,  becomes  seared  and  hard- 
ened until  at  last,  when  more  mature,  they  find  employ- 
ment only  in  the  commonest  and  cheapest  pursuits  of 
life.  No  kind  of  stock  possesses  so  many  attractions  for 
the  little  chaps  as  poultry  ;  the  hidden  nest,  the  smooth 
white  eggs  daily  renewed,  the  waiting  and  watching  for 
the  hatching  day,  the  dozen  little  downy  chicks  running 
about  the  coops,  their  change  to  full-grown  chanticleers, 
with  brilliant  garb  and  prolonged  crows,  all  have  their 
influence  and  tend  to  inspire  the  youngsters  with  love 
and  admiration,  and  to  develop  a  lasting  fondness  for 
the  beautiful  throughout  the  brute  creation." 

To  the  chickens  there  might  be  added,  with  little  ex- 
pense, a  few  handsome  ducks  and. a  pair  of  rabbits. 
And  if  the  home  be  near  a  brook,  a  trout  pond  might  be 
manufactured,  which  would  be  not  only  a  joy  to  the  boys, 
but  a  very  good  thing  for  the  breakfast-table,  occasion- 
ally, during  the  trout  season. 


204         FARM   HOMES,    IN'-DOORS  AND   OUT-DOORS. 

A  genuine  shepherd  dog,  a  good-natured  and  a  faithful 
animal  who  knows  almost  everything,  would  be  a  capital 
companion  for  the  children  in  their  sports  and  wander- 
ings, and  very  useful  for  watching  and  for  bringing  up 
the  sheep  and  the  cows. 

Every  farmer  should  possess  a  workshop,  with  a  fa^r 
supply  of  tools.  He  will  find  it  a  great  convenience  in 
case  of  simple  mechanical  jobs  to  be  done ;  and  it  will 
seem  marvellous,  the  amount  of  attraction  a  few  boards, 
a  plane,  and  hammer  and  nails,  will  have  for  an  ingenious 
boy  on  a  stormy  day  !  The  garret  might  be  fitted  up  for 
a  ''carpenter's  shop,"  or  a  small  comfortable  lean-to 
might  be  added  to  the  woodshed,  or  a  part  of  the  wood- 
shed itself  marked  off  for  this  use.  The  shop  should  be 
well  lighted,  and  have  conveniences  for  a  fire  in  cold 
weather  ;  and  an  ungrudged  supply  of  lumber  and  neces- 
sary tools  will  weigh  but  lightly  in  the  scales  against 
the  useful  occupation  and  the  self-teaching  in  mechanical 
ideas  which  will  be  afforded  the  boys,  and  the  added  at- 
traction they  will  find  in  their  farm 'homes. 

All  work  and  no  play  not  only  makes  Jack  a  dull  boy, 
but  it  is  very  apt  to  make  him  a  surly  and  unpleasant 
boy.  We  are  all  surly  and  unpleasant  when  we  are  put 
to  work  week  in  and  week  out,  with  no  breaking  away 
from  the  tread-mill,  into  the  green  fields  of  restful,  happy 
recreation,  no  pleasant  hope  or  kindling  aspiration  fling- 
ing its  radiance  over  the  dull,  every-day  things  about  us. 

Give  Jack  a  share  in  the  wheat-crop,  or  in  the  corn- 
field, in  which  he  has  toiled.  Give  it  to  him  to  do  as  he 
likes  with,  instead  of  spoiling  the  deed  with  the  stingy 
proviso  that  it  must  be  "laid  out"  in  brown-drilling, 
brogans,  and  winter  shirts  1 

Let  him  and  his  brothers  and  chums  try  a  week  or  two 
of  ''camping  out  "  in  the  pleasant  fall  weather  ;  and  go 
sometimes  yourself,  my  farmer,  and  try  the  taste  of 
broiled  quail  and  squirrel-stew  under  the  forest  trees.    A 


REAKTN^G  AND  TRAINING   OF  CHILDREN.  205 

capital,  and  at  the  same  time  very  practical,  little  book  on 
'*  Camping  Out"  was  published  two  or  three  years  ago. 
It  is  full  of  helpful  instruction  about  making  tents, 
building  camps,  what  supplies  are  needed,  how  to  cook 
game,  and  how  to  make  the  whole  business  a  comfortable 
and  jolly  recreation,  instead  of  a  laborious  pursuit  of 
bad  colds  !    Every  boy  should  have  this  book. 

If  you  wish  your  children  to  love  you,  and  also  to 
respect  you,  do  not  be  constantly  scolding  and  nagging 
them.  Calm,  earnest  rebuke  is  one  thing,  and  snappish, 
angry  scolding  is  another.  We  often  see  children  in- 
stantly and  cheerfully  obey  the  father,  while  the  mother 
drives  them  with  little  pushes  and  repeated  commands, 
and  sometimes  a  shake  or  a  blow,  before  her  wishes  are 
acceded  to.  Why  is  there  this  difference  ?  Because  the 
father  is  of  few  words  and  means  what  he  says,  and  the 
poor  mother  is  a  worried,  nervous,  fluttering  woman, 
without  dignity  or  self-control,  and  consequently  unable 
to  control  others. 

A  scolding  tongue  is  worse  than  a  hornet's  nest  or  a 
drizzling  rain  in  the  house.  It  irritates,  embitters,  and 
discourages.  It  never  softens  and  convinces,  and  gently 
conquers.  If  we  grown-up  people  endure  "  scolding " 
with  such  bad  grace,  consider  its  effect  on  the  still  more 
sensitive  soul  of  childhood.  Better  a  good  rousing  tem- 
pest, followed  by  clear  deep  skies  of  love  and  joy  and 
peace,  than  a  continual  dripping  of  fine  but  excessively 
dampening  sleet,  and  a  perpetual  east- wind  of  rebuke  and 
fault-finding ! 

Do  not  break  your  promise  to  the  children,  no  matter 
how  trifling  they  may  seem  to  you,  any  more  than  you 
would  evade  some  sacred  pledge  to  a  cherished  friend. 
What  should  the  children  be  but  cherished  friends  ?  If 
you  would  have  them  true  and  loyal,  and  **as  good  as 
their  word,"  you  must  be  perfectly  true  to  yourself  in 
your  dealings  with  them.     There  is  too  much  of  tricky 


FAEM  HOMES,   IN-DOOKS  Al<fD  0UT-D00E8. 

deception  and  mean  "putting  off"  in  our  conduct  with 
the  confiding,  earnest-hearted  children.  They  are  not 
slow  to  see  through  sham  excuses  and  lying  subterfuges  ; 
and  woe  unto  you  as  a  parent,  if  you  succeed  in  estab- 
lishing yourself  in  their  clear  judgment  as  a  **  humbug." 

Do  not  shame  and  humiliate  a  child  before  strangers, 
or  even  before  other  members  of  the  family.  Punish- 
ment or  rebuke  ought  to  be  between  just  the  two  persons, 
the  parent  and  the  child.  Yet  it  is  a  common  thing  to 
Bee  ill-bred  parents  **  showing  off  "  their  authority  before 
•visitors,  and  making  children  perfectly  wretched  and 
overwhelmed  with  confusion  about  little  misdemeanors 
that  need  but  a  word,  and  that  word  privately  addressed 
to  them. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  sight  of  a  sensitive  little  girl  to 
whom  her  mother  called  the  attention  of  a  tea-tableful  of 
Tisitors,  because  she  had  taken  a  too  large  bite  of  some 
very  nice  jelly-cake  she  was  eating.  The  child  first 
glanced  appealingly  at  her  mother,  with  eyes  that  might 
have  pierced  the  heart  of  a  savage,  then  turned  her  shy 
gaze  around  upon  the  circle  of  smiling  faces,  and  dropping 
her  face  into  her  napkin,  began  to  sob  as  if  her  heart  was 
breaking.  There  are  plenty  of  children  who  would  not 
have  mmded  such  speech  and  such  looks  directed  to  them, 
and  would  have  serenely  munched  on.  But  this  little 
lady,  being  so  sensitive  to  rudeness,  felt  differently.  I 
expected  that  the  mother  would  at  least  leave  her  to  her- 
self, or  allow  her  to  leave  the  room,  now  the  mischief  was 
done  ;  but,  no,  she  was  compelled  to  stop  crying,  hold  up 
her  head,  and  finish  her  supper.  The  feat  required  some 
time,  it  seemed  as  if  the  poor  thing  would  burst  a  blood- 
vessel in  trying  to  swallow  her  sobs  and  appear  calm,  but 
in  three  or  four  minutes  she  was  indeed  holding  her  head 
up  and  **  finishing"  her  supper,  fumbling  through  a  blur 
of  silent  tears  for  the  toothsome  cake  that  was  now  no 
more  to  her  than  so  much  saw-dust.     The  mother^  with 


BEARING  AND  TRAINING   OF  CHILDREN.  207 

a  toss  of  triumph,  then  graciously  consented  to  change 
the  subject.  Such  treatment  of  children  is  nothing  less 
than  brutal. 

The  "  awkward  age  "  in  boys  renders  them  often  deeply 
sensitive  to  being  rebuked  or  criticised  before  visitors, 
and  especially  before  their  own  friends.  If  you  are  a  true 
and  sympathetic  mother,  you  will  gracefully  help  your 
boy  out  of  little  mishaps,  and  quietly  pass  over  his  faults 
and  blunders,  until  you  can  speak  to  him  at  the  right 
time.  A  boy  wants  a  reliable,  faithful,  kind-hearted 
friend  in  you,  and  not  an  anxious,  constantly-nagging  gov- 
erness. Somebody  has  said  "  There  is  nothing  so  beauti- 
fully chivalrous  as  the  love  of  a  big  boy  for  his  mother. 
I  never  yet  knew  a  boy  to  '  turn  out '  badly,  who  began 
by  falling  in  love  with  his  mother."  It  would  very  much 
brighten  and  reform  our  social  world,  if  we  could  see 
more  of  this  happy,  trustful,  thoughtful  devotions  of  boys 
for  mothers.  And  how  is  it  to  be  had  unless  the  mothers 
are  wise,  faithful,  high-minded,  yet  tenderly  sympathetic 
friends  of  their  boys  ? 

Angry  punishments  are  always  avoided  by  the  best 
parents.  Very  few  of  us,  while  m  our  right  minds,  will 
fly  at  a  child  and  give  him  furious,  unexplamed  blows. 
We  should  choose  people  of  our  own  size  for  such  out- 
breaks, and  then  we  may  possibly  receive  what  we  richly 
deserve  in  return.  There  are  not  many  children  that  are 
improved  by  being  whipped  ;  and  angry  whippings,  such 
as  are  often  given,  lower  and  belittle  the  parent,  and 
make  him  hateful,  not  only  to  the  child,  but  to  himself, 
if  he  has  any  conscience.  There  are  ways  of  punishment 
that  spare  the  self-respect  and  dignity  of  the  child,  pos- 
sessions to  which  he  has  a  divine  right,  and  at  the  same 
time  detract  nothing  from  the  self-respect  and  dignity  of 
the  parent. 

,  The  child  can  be  deprived,  not  of  his  supper,  for  that 
would  be  a  physical  injury,  but  of  some  special  privilege 


208  FAEM   HOMES,    IX-DOORS   AI^TD   OUT-DOORS. 

or  amusement,  or  to  some  expected  good  thing  to  which 
he  was  looking  forward.  Such  a  punishment  is  felt  all 
through,  is  well  remembered,  and  need  not  occur  but 
rarely. 

Never  put  children  into  dark  closets  or  cellars  as  a 
means  of  punishment.  Nervous  children  have  been  per- 
manently injured  by  such  stupid  cruelty.  Spare  them  as 
far  as  possible,  all  ghost-stories,  practical  "  scares  "  and 
evil  shocks  of  all  kinds. 

Finally,  since  we  cannot  be  perfect  in  any  of  the  offices 
to  which  we  are  ''elected  "  in  this  life,  since  with  earnest 
effort,  and  hour-by-hour  striving,  we  can  only  not  repeat 
the  blunders  and  short-comings  of  yesterday,  and  try  to 
make  fewer  to-day,  let  us  be  as  just  and  gentle  as  we 
know  how  to  be  to  the  children  who  are  with  us  now. 
And  when  moments  come  in  which  we  almost  forget  our- 
selves, and  give  way  to  impatience  and  anger,  and  harsh 
vengeance  that  will  leave  their  ugly  shadows  upon  us,  let 
us  think  how  swiftly  the  years  are  bearing  our  children 
away  1  let  us  think  how  surely  the  time  will  come  when, 
in  the  still,  orderly  autumn  of  life,  we  will  be  yearning 
to  give  all  our  possessions  for  one  of  those  same  hard- 
working, noisy,  nerve-trying  blessed  old  days  with  "  The 
Children." 


CHAPTER    XV. 
RULES   FOR   RIGHT   LIVING. 

1.  Keep  the  body  clean.  The  countless  pores  of  the 
skin  are  so  many  little  dram-tiles  for  the  refuse  of  the 
system.  If  they  become  clogged  and  so  deadened  in 
their  action,  we  must  expect  to  become  the  prey  of  iU- 
health  in  some  one  at  its  countless  forms.     Let  us  not 


BULES  FOR   RIGHT  LIVII?"G.  209 

be  afraid  of  a  wet  sponge  and  five  minutes  brisk  exercise 
with  a  crash  towel  every  night  or  morning. 

2.  Devote  eight  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four  to  sleep. 
If  a  mother  is  robbed  of  sleep  by  a  wakeful  baby,  she 
must  take  a  nap  sometime  during  the  day.  Even  ten 
minutes  of  repose  strengthens  and  refreshes,  and  does 
good  *4ike  a  medicine."  Children  should  be  allowed  to 
sleep  until  they  awake  of  their  own  free  will. 

3.  Never  go  out  to  work  in  early  morning  in  any 
locality  subject  to  damps,  fogs,  and  miasms,  with  an 
empty  stomach.  If  there  is  not  time  to  wait  for  a  cup 
of  coifee,  pour  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
on  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream,  or  a  beaten  egg,  season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  drink  it  while  hot  before  going 
out.  This  will  stimulate  and  comfort  the  stomach,  and 
aid  the  system  in  resisting  a  poisonous  or  debilitating 
atmosphere. 

4.  Avoid  over-eating.  To  rise  from  the  table  able  to 
eat  a  little  more  is  a  proverbially  good  rule  for  every  one. 
There  is  nothing  more  idiotic  than  forcing  down  a  few 
mouthfuls,  because  they  happen  to  remain  on  one's 
plate,  after  hunger  is  satisfied,  and  because  they  may  be 
"wasted"  if  left !  It  is  the  most  serious  waste  to  over- 
tax  the  stomach  with  even  half  an  ounce  more  than  it 
can  take  care  of. 

5.  Avoid  foods  and  drinks  that  plainly  "disagree" 
with  the  system.  Vigorous  out-door  workers  should 
beware  of  heavy,  indigestible  suppers.  Suppers  should 
always  consist  of  light,  easily-digested  foods,  being,  in 
the  country,  soon  followed  by  sleep,  and  the  stomach 
bemg  as  much  entitled  as  the  head  to  profound  rest. 
The  moral  pluck  and  firmness  to  take  such  food  and  no 
other  for  this  last  meal  of  the  day  can  be  easily  acquired, 
and  the  reward  of  such  virtue  is  sound  sleep,  a  clear 
head,  a  strong  hand,  and  a  capital  appetite  for  breakfast. 


210  FAKM   HOMES,    IX-DOORS   AND   OUT-DOOES. 

6.  Never  wear  at  night  the  undergarments  that  are 
worn  through  the  day. 

7.  Cultivate  sunlight  and  fresh  air.  Farmers'  wives 
''fade"  sooner  than  city  women,  not  alone  because  they 
work  harder  and  take  no  care  of  themselves,  but  because 
they  stay  so  closely  in-door s,  and  have  no  work  or  re- 
creation that  takes  them  out  into  the  open  sunlight.  It 
is  a  singular  fact  that  women  in  crowded  cities  generally 
get  more  sunshine  and  pure  air  than  their  hived  up 
country  sisters. 

8.  Have  something  for  the  mind  to  feed  upon,  some- 
thing to  look  forward  to  and  live  for,  beside  the  round 
of  daily  labor  or  the  counting  of  profit  and  loss.  If  we 
have  not  any  talent  for  writing  splendid  works  on  politi- 
cal economy  or  social  science,  or  the  genius  of  creating  a 
good  story  or  a  fine  poem,  the  next  best  thing,  and  in 
fact  almost  as  good  a  thing,  is  to  possess  an  appreciation 
of  these  things  !  So  have  good  books  and  good  news- 
papers, and  read  them,  if  only  in  snatches,  and  talk  about 
them  at  dinner-time  or  by  the  evening  fire.  Cultivate 
choice  flowers  and  fruits,  and  help  some  poor  neighbor 
to  seeds  and  cuttings,  or  take  an  interest  in  bees,  or  fine 
poultry,  or  trout  culture.  And  study  always  farm  and 
household  science,  and  take  advantage  of  the  new  and 
helpful  things  that  are  every  little  while  coming  to  light. 

9.  Live  in  Peace  !  Fretting,  worrying,  fault-finding, 
borrowing  trouble,  giving  away  to  temper,  and  holding 
long,  bitter  grudges,  all  those  things  affect  the  liver, 
poison  the  blood,  enlarge  the  spleen,  carve  ugly  lines  on 
the  face,  and  shorten  life  !  Try  to  be  half  as  wise  at  that 
little  creature,  the  bee,  who  takes  all  the  honey  she  can 
find,  and  leaves  the  poisons  to  themselves. 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Air,  Pure,  Secnre 27 

Annuals,  A  Few  Desirable 90 

Antirrhinum 90 

Asters 90 

Balsams  90 

Buttercups 90 

Coreopsis 90 

Candytuft 90 

Cypress  Vine 90 

Lavender 91 

Mignonette 91 

Nasturtiums 91 

Pansies 91 

Petunias  92 

Salvias 92 

Sweet  Alyssum 90 

Sweet  Peas...  90 

Verbenas 93 

Annuals,  Seeds  of 89 

Annuals,  Transplanting 89 

Apples,  Varieties  for  Garden. 113 

Autumn   Leaves,  Ferns,  etc.,  for 

decorating  Windows 40 

Bath-Rooms 25 

Bay-Windows 15 

Bay-Windows,  Substitute  for 14 

Bed,  A  Good 44 

Bedroom,  The  Spare 42 

Bedrooms,  Ventilation  of 26 

Bedrooms,  Warmed 176 

Beef,  Mutton,  and  Fowls 162 

Berries.. 114 

Blackberries  115 

Currants 115 

Gooseberries 115 

Raspberries 114 

Strawberries ..114 

Borders  at  Top  of  Tinted  Walls. . . .  34 
Boys'  Room,  The 48 

(211) 


PA.GB. 

Graham , 120 

Substitutes  for 120 

Wheat 119 

When  Fit  to  be  Eaten 120 

Building 9 

Four  Essentials  in 14 

Site,  Improvement  of — 11 

Site,  Selection  of , 10 

Bulbs  and  Plants,  Hardy 86 

Bulbs,  Summer 93 

Dahlias 94 

Gladiolus 94 

Jacobean  Lily    94 

Tritoma  Uvaria 94 

Tuberose  93 

Butter,  Coloring  in  Winter .*.  80 

"Grain  "of 79 

Salting  the 79 

Butter-Making 75 

Cake 147 

Calcimine 33 

Calcimine,  Delicate  Tints 33 

Candies,  Home-made 150 

Cellar,  Clean,  Dry,  for  Milk 76 

Cheese 80 

"Sage" 81 

" Stilton "  and  "Cheddar". .      80 

Whole-Milk 81 

Churns 79 

Cleanliness  in  Dairy -Room 78 

Climbing  Vines 97 

Children,  Rearing  and  Training... 198 
Conveniences,  Modem,  for  Kitchen  64 

Cows  for  Home  Dairy 77 

Cows,  Good  Care  of 76 

Cream  from  One  Milking  <;Jhumed 

by  itself 79 

Cream,  The  Beauties  of 141 

Cupboard  with  Glass  Doors 67 


212 


Il?^DEX. 


PAOB. 

Cupboards  and  Drawers 23 

Custards  and  Puddings 138 

Dairy-Room,  The 75 

Decorations,  "Knack"  for 35 

Dining-Koom,  The 68 

Dining-Rooms,  Woodwork  Finish.  35 

Drainasje 28 

Dumb-Waiter  in  Dairy-Room 76 

Earth  Closets 30 

Eggs  and  Milk,  Value  of 135 

Essentials,  the  Four 14 

Farm  Neighborhoods 178 

Farmers'  Wives 183 

Farm-House,  Cheerful  Western 21 

Filth,  Preventable 28 

Finishing 32 

Fire-Board ^ . .  j 39 

Fire-Place 37 

Fish 157 

Flower-Beds,  Varieties  of  Shape. . .  85 

Flower- Borders,  Location  of 86 

Flower  Garden,  The ...   82 

Foods,  Some  Best  Methods  of  Pre- 
paring them 117 

Foods,  The  Best 117 

Foot-Blankets....  .'.-. 45 

Fruits.  Canned 129 

Fruits,  Fresh  and  Preserved 12G 

Fruit  Trees,  Garden 113 

Furnishing 41 

And  Ornamenting  Boys'  Room.  48 

Girls'  Room 59 

Mother's  Room 56 

Tasteful  and  Inexpensive 41 

the  Dining  Room 69 

the  Parlor 71 

Furniture,  Old-Fashioned  for  Old 

People's  Room 53 

Gases,  Bad,  No  Excuse  for 29 

Girls' Room 69 

Glass-Panels, Ornamented,  for  Man- 
tel   38 

Grapes 115 

Grapes  and  Pears  for  the  Holidays.. 176 

Hall  for  Daily  Use 25 

Lighting  the 25 

Windows 39 

Halls  24 

Halls,  Cheerless  25 

Hardy  Plants,  A  Few  Desirable. ...  86 
Hats  and  Caps,  Regular  Place  for. .  24 
Health  Laws,  Disregard  of 28 


PAOS. 

Hearth,  Open,  Delightful 37 

Home,  Build  it  now 13 

Hot-Bed,  How  to  Make 112 

House,  Finishing  in  the 32 

One-Story,  Plan  of 18 

Small,  on  Picturesque  Knoll ...  19 

Well-lighted 17 

Witiiout  Sunlight 16 

House-Plans,  Studying  the 13 

Houses,  Cool,  in  Summer 174 

Ice-Cream  without  a  Freezer 173 

Ice-House,  An 171 

Kitchen,  Large  and  Pleasant 63 

Small  Wing;  for 18 

The  63 

Waste 29 

Wood- Work  Finish 35 

Floor,  Oiling  the 65 

Furniture 66 

Window 15 

Lambrequin  for  Mantel 38 

Lilies,  A  Few  Good 87 

Living,  Right,  Rules  of 208 

Luxuries,  A  Pew  Simple 171 

Mantels 37 

Milk  and  Eggs,  Value  of 135 

Milk,  Straining  into  Pans 79 

Milk-House 75 

Mother's  Room 55 

Mottoes,  Appropriate 47 

Oatmeal 1-34 

Omelets 136 

Old  People's  Room 62 

Parlor,  The 71 

Paths  or  Walks  in  Garden 86 

Peaches 117 

Pears 116 

Pickles  and  Catsups 138 

Pictures  for  Bed  room  Walls 47 

Pies 143 

Pillow  and  Sheet  Shams 45 

Plans  for  Building 12 

Plans  for  Small  Houses 20 

Plants,  Hardy 88 

Plums 116 

Pre8er\'es,  Choice 130 

Privy,  Old-fashioned 30 

Privy  Vaults,  Dry  Earth  or  Ashes 

for 31 

Puddings  and  Custards 138 

Rag-Carpet 44,56 

Recipes  (see  Index,  pages  202-204). 


IKDEX. 


213 


PAGE. 

Refrigerator,  Ifome-made 172 

"  Remember  Mother  " 50 

Rennets 80 

Kice  125 

Rooms  without  Flies 174 

Roses    96 

Rugs,  Pretty 44 

Salads 155 

Sauces  for  Fish  and  Meat IGO 

Scent-Jar 175 

Shower- Batti,  Sprinkling-pot 26 

Shrubs,  Hardy 95 

Sink,  Zinc-lined,  in  Kitchen 65 

Site,  The,  for  Building 10 

Small  Fruits 113 

Soups   152 

Spare  Bedroom,  Furnishing  the 44 

Stove,  Open,  in  Bedroom 27 

Straw-matting  for  Bedroom 43 

Sunlight 14 

Toilet-table,  Dry-goods  Box 45 

Vegetable  Garden,  The 105 

Asparagus 106 

Beans 107 

Beets 107 

Cabbage 107 

Carrots 109 

Cauliflower 108 

Celery 108 

Corn,  Sweet 108 

Cucumbers 108 

Egir  Plant 109 

Herbs 112 

Lettuce 109 


PAGE. 

Vegetable  Garden,  Melons 109 

Onions 109 

Parsley ...  110 

Parsnips 109 

Peas 110 

Peppers HO 

Potatoes 110 

Pumpkins HO 

Radishes Hi 

Spinach ill 

Squashes Ill 

Sweet  Com 108 

Tomatoes Ill 

Turnips Ill 

Vegetables,  Recipes  for  Cooking. ..  168 

Ventilation 26 

Ventilation.  Cheap— Simple 27 

Ventilator,  Revolving 27 

Verandas 16 

Wall-Paper 35 

Water  Filter 173 

Whitewash,  An  Excellent 34 

Window-Plants 98 

Callas 102 

Foliage  Plants 101 

Fuchsias 100 

Geraniums 98 

Heliotropes 101 

Monthly  Roses 102 

Window-Plants,     Suggestions    for 

Beginners 108 

Windows,  Bay 15 

Wood-work 35 

Wood- work  Finish,  Staining  the. . .  86 


INDEX    TO     RECIPES. 


PAGE. 

Apple  Cream 133 

Apples,  Baked 132 

Apples.  Sweet,  Steamed 132 

Beans,  Baked  with  Pork 167 

Beef,  Corned 163 

Dried,  and  Cream 164 

Potted 163 

Roast 162 

Beefsteak.  Stuffed  163 

Bread,  Corn,  Steamed 123 

Cake 147 

Bread 149 

Christmas  Cookies 150 

Corn  Starch 148 

Cream 150 

Donghnuts —   160 

Gingerbread,  Alum 149 

Gingerbread,  Plain 149 

Jelly.  Roll 148 

Lady  Fingers 149 

Orange 148 

Pioneer  Johnny 122 

Sponge 147 

Tea 150 

Cakes,  Green  Com 122 

Calf's  Liver 166 

Candies,  Home-made 150 

Cream 150 

Horehound 161 

Molasses 151 

Nuts,  Crystallized 151 

Peppermint  Drops. 151 

Pop-Corn,  Crystallized 151 

Pop  Com  Balls 161 

Catsups  and  Pickles 138 

Charlotte  Russe,  Fine 142 

Charlotte  Russe,  Simple 142 

(314) 


PAGB. 

Cherries,  Currants  and  Grapes,  To 

Crystallize 132 

Chickens,  Fried 165 

Crackers,  Com  Starch  122 

Cream,  Bavarian 142 

Gravy 143 

Shells 143 

Substitute  for 143 

Whipped,  with  Fruits 142 

Currants,  Pretty  Dish 133 

Custard,  Baked 138 

Boiled 138 

Cocoanut 138 

Corn-Starch 138 

Custards  and  Puddings 138 

Fish 157 

Baked .157 

Boiled 158 

Br  iled ..   158 

Cod,  Fresh.  Boiled 159 

Cod,  Salt,  Broiled 159 

Codfish  and  Cream 159 

Codfish  Cakes 159 

Fried 158 

Oysters,  Canned,  Roasted 160 

Fried 160 

Scalloped 159 

Stewed 100 

Fmits,  Canned 129 

Apples 129 

Blackberries 129 

Blueberries 129 

Currants 129 

Peaches 129 

Pears 129 

Plums 129 

Raspberries 129 


IXDEX   TO   RECIPES. 


215 


PAGE. 

Fruits, 'Canned,  Strawberries 129 

Goose,  Roast 106 

Grits,  Com,  Baked 121 

Ham,  Boiled 164 

Jelly,  Apple  and  Plum 132 

Currant 131 

Grape 132 

Lamb,  Roast 1G3 

Marmalades,  General  Rule 130 

Meats,  Cold,  Good  Form  of 164 

Muffins,  Com 121 

Rice  123 

Wheat 121 

Mush,  Com,  Fried 123 

Oatmeal 125 

Wheat 118 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  Boiled 164 

Omelets 136 

Cheese... 137 

Cream 136 

Ham 137 

Sweet 137 

Vegetable 137 

Pears,  Baked 132 

Pickles  and  Catsups 133 

Catsup,  Tomato 133 

Chow-Chow 134 

Crab  Apples,  Spiced 133 

Cucumber  Pickles 134 

Cucumbers,  Salted 134 

Currants,  Spiced 133 

Mixed  Pickles 134 

Onions,  Pickled 135 

Peaches,  Spiced 133 

Tomatoes,  Green,  Spiced 133 

Pies  143 

Apple,  No.  1 144 

Apple,  No.  2 145 

Cream 145 

Custard 145 

Hasty 147 

Lemon 1 45 

Mince 147 

Mock-Cream 145 

Orange 145 

Paste  or  Crust,  A  Good  144 

Paste  or  Crust,  Another 144 

Pumpkin 146 

Rhubarb 146 

Pigeons,  Stewed 166 

Pork,  Roast 163 

Salt.No.1 164 


Pork,  Salt,  No.  2 165 

Preserves,  General  Rule  130 

Pudding— Bread.  Simple  140 

Bread— Simple,  No.  2 140 

Christmas 140 

Christmas,  Sauce  for 140 

Corn-Meal,  Baked 139 

Corn-Meal,  Steamed  139 

Corn-Starch 139 

Fruit,  Boiled 140 

Rice 141 

Rice,  Bird'sNest 141 

Rice,  Rock 141 

Tapioca  and  Sago 139 

Puddings  and  Custards 138 

Puffs,  Cream 121 

Puffs,  Graham 121 

Quails,  Roasted 166 

Quinces,  Baked 132 

Rolls,  Sunday  Morning 122 

Salads 155 

Cabbage,  No.  1... 156 

Cabbage,  No.  2 156 

Chicken 157 

Dressing,  French 156 

Dressing,  Plain,  for 1E5 

Ham 156 

Lettuce 156 

Potato 156 

Spinach,  No.  1 157 

Spinach,  No.  2 157 

Sauces  for  Fish  and  Meats 160 

Boiled    Egg,    for    Baked   and 

Boiled  Fish 161 

Broiled  Meat  and  Fish,  for 161 

Brown,  for  Cutlets,  Steaks,  and 

PottedMeats 161 

Butter,  Drawn 161 

Cold,  for  Cold  Roast  Beef 162 

Currant  Jelly,  for  Baked  Veni- 
son   162 

Mint,  for  Roast  Lamb 161 

Holland,  for  Boiled  Fish,  Cab- 
bage, Asparagus,  etc 161 

Horse  Radish,  for  Roast  Beef 

and  Beefsteak 160 

Oyster,  for  Roast  Turkey 161 

Parsley,  for  Boiled  Fish  or  Fowll61 

Roast  Beef  Gravy .162 

Tomato,  for  Mutton  Chops 162 

Soups 152 

158 


216 


INDEX   TO   RECIPES. 


PAGE. 

Soups,  Beef,  Plain 154 

Chicken 153 

Green  Corn 152 

Mutton  Broth 153 

Oyster... 155 

Palatable  for  Sick  Person  .....  154 

Pea 152 

Potato 153 

Salsify 153 

Seasonings  for 155 

Tomato 153 

Vcfal 154 

Vegetable  Oyster 153 

Sunday  Morning  Rolls 122 

Turkey,  Roast 165 

Veal,  Pressed 166 

Vegetables 168 


PAGB 

Vegetables,  Cauliflower 169 

Celery 170 

Egg  Plant  no 

O  H  i  ons.  Boiled 170 

Parsnips 169 

Parsnip  Fritters 170 

Potato  Snow  168 

Potatoes,  Baked. 169 

Pol atoes.  Boiled 168 

Potatoes.  Breakfast  169 

Potatoes,  Steamed 1C8 

Squash.  Boiled 170 

Squash  Fritters  ITO 

Sweet  Corn,  Nice  Variation 170 

Turnips,  Rutabaga  169 

Whf^at,  Boiled 118 

Yeast,  A  Good 120 


.'^J^sc?5fe23s-5S'S^: 


■^.im.^^^^'^jm^^'MiE^^^E^. 


THE  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  SANTA  CRUZ 

SCIENCE  LIBRARY 


This  book  is  due  on  the  last  DATE  stamped  below. 

To  renew  by  phone,  coil  459-2050. 

Books  not  returned  or  renewed  within  14  days 

after  due  date  are  subject  to  billing. 


"^^^3^ 


