Cook  B.ook 


Second  Bdition 


* 

cA  ./ 


^. 


/ 


r 


-'-^n, 


&' 


--^ 

./W^; 


: 


^ 


• 


^**    '•• 


>A/>    ,<  t 


\X 

*^ 


• 

r  • 


-' 


^ 


\sts-&-{  c-c    c* 

ZS 


r 


- 


s~\       £/ 

O/       U«A^ 

?f~>-y.     ->»- 

4         s 

-/  <* 

•--'     ^-^  f**** 

/j  I?       t        <  / 

f  *      v 

f-/      *£st*f&s£~f*  £  A 

"•     '-  ^4, 

:   J" 

^i 

' 

~~~$~*CJ\~ 

*'  •'    - 

\f' 

\/v 


Favorite  Recipes 


COMPILED  BY 


Ladles  of   the    Cumberland 
Presbyterian  Church 


,  C9L. 


1903 


SECOND      EDITION 


Prossof  Mem  ford  Doily  Journal 


The  Slay  to  a  Jean's  f)cart 

Ie  Cbrougb  Bis  Stomach 


The  QHay  to  a  Roman's  F>eart 

Ie  Cbrougb  a  )Man'9  J^eat  Hppcarance 


Our  business  is  to  make    a   man   look   his  best.     Let 
us  put  a  well-fitting      ::::::::::::•: 

Suit  of  Clothes 


On  you,  "  Mi1.  Man."  and  the  rest  is  easy. 

THE  TOGGERY  caters  to  the  man  who  wants  "the 
best"  to  wear.  Our  exclusive  hi^h-^rade  trade  signifies 
that  we  lead  the  van  as  a  gentleman's  modern  clothing 
establishment. 


"THE  TOGGERY 

Everything  a  Man  or  Boy  Wears 


Soups 


CELERY  CREAM  SOUP. 

Boil  ;i  small  nip  of  rice  in  three  quarts  of  milk,  until  it  will 

pass  thronyh  a  sieve;  grate  tlie  white  part  of  two  heads  of 
celery  (three  if  small)  on  a  1  read  "-rater;  add  this  to  She 
rice  milk  after  it  has  l:een  strained;  put  to  it  a  quart  of  line 
white  stock,  let  lo>l  until  celery  is  perfectly  tender;  season 
with  salt  and  |  epper.  and  a  d:.«h  of  cayenne,  if  desired.  Ff 
cream  "is  obtainable,  snlstitnte  one  pint  for  the  same  tinantifv 
of  milk. 

MRS.  JUDD  SMITH. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Four  medium  si/.ed  tomatoes  To  one  <|iiart  of  milk,  cook  to- 
matoes thoroughly  \vitli  small  half  teaspoon  of  soda;  pepper. 
'salt  and  sugar  to  taste;  add  milk  and  butter  size  of  an  egg 
jwlu'ii  ready  and  serve  hot. 

MRS.  J.  W.  TEE  AD  WELL. 

HOME  MADE  NOODLES. 

Wet  with  the  yolks  of  four  ej_rgs  as  much  llonr  as  will  make;' 
firm  paste;  roll  thin  as  possible  and  cut  into  bands  an  inch  in 
width;  dust  them  with  flour  and  place  four  of  them,  one  upon 
the  other,  cut  in  finest  strips:  separate  and  spread  them  txn 
pi 01  Voard  to  dry  a  few  minutes  before  using.  Drop  slowly  in 
chicken  or  any  kind  of  soup  and  boil  five  minutes. 

MRS.  M.  G.  LONG. 
POTATO  SOUP. 

One' pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  medium  size  onion,  one  e^g,  one 
scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  three  small  potatoes,  salt.  First 
slice  the  onion  in  the  milk,  put  it  on  to  boil,  let  it  get  hot  (not 

Burnett's  Extract  Lemon,  25c;  Vanilla,  35c  bottle — Kutner's. 


FAVORITE   RECIPES. 


boiling),  then  add  flour;  cook  the  potatoes  alone.  When  soft 
-put  them  through  the  potato  sieve;  beat  up  the  egg  in  soup 
'bowl,  then  strain  the  milk  and  onion  over  this  beaten  egg,  add- 
ing the  potato  last.  This  makes  a  very  nice  soup. 

MKS.   PKCK. 

MOCK  OYSTER  SOUP. 

W  Place  over  the  fire  one  quart  of  peeled  tomatoes,  let  them 
•stew  for  a  little  while,  then  add  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  and 
stir  until  tomatoes  are  cut  up  good;  add  two  quarts  of  milk, 
and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Canned  ,  > 
matoes  may  be  used. 

•H6ALLIE   TROXLER. 

TOMATO  CREAM  SOUP. 

Six  fresh  tomatoes  or  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  sprig  parsley, 
one  onion,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one, 
pint  of  milk,  one  bay  leaf,  two  ^[oves,  salt  and  pepper,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda.  If  fresh  tomatoes  are  nsed  one  and  a  half  pints 
"water  or  stock.  Cut  tomatoes  in  slices  and  stew  until  tender 
jwith  onion,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  parsley  and  water.  If  using  can- 
ned tomatoes  omit  the  wrater.  Pass  through  a  sieve,  rubbing 
all  the  pulp  through  also.  Blend  flour  and  butter  until  smooth; 
add  hot  tomato  and  stir  imtil  boiling;  then  put  in  the  soda, 
apd  just  before  serving  add  the  milk  previously  scalded. 

LUCY  CORTXKR. 
CELERY  SOUP. 

Cut  off  the  white  of  half  dozen  heads  of  celery,  boil  in  foux 
pints  of  white  stock  with  quarter  pound  !<-.:  :  ant  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Simmer  a  full  hour,  strain,  return  to 
pan,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  stir  in  very  carefully  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream.  Pour  over  bits  of  toasted  bread  and 
serve.  May  be  made  without  stock. 

MRS.  B.  K.  SWEETLAND,  Lemoore. 

GOOD,   UP-TO-DATE  SHOES 

AT  THE  RIGHT  PRICES,  IS  THE  MOTTO  OF 

124   N.    IRWIN    STREET 
HftNrORD,  CAL. 


I.   C    TAYLOP 


Try  Him  Tor  Your  Next  Pair 

REPAIR  SHOP  IN  CONNECTION 


v  \VORITE  RECIPES. 


_  JllpS   /^/- 

,  fy  ^***^^^7^««  ^  X  •^^f^ 


• 


FAVOKITE  BECIPES. 


3t 


y 

/ 


'hfisfrCt      &4<l^?*^ 
oC    ^^  7 


/ 


^f 


.» t. 


_ 

H 


**  u-<W 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


*  /  ' 

L*c.     &P&C4.    t 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Vegetables 


RULES  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

Peas,  potatoes,  asparagus,  corn  on  cob.  summer  squash,  to- 
jnatoes,  rice,  spinach,  require  about  half  an  hour  to  cook;  al- 
.ways  putting  into  boiling  water  salte<l. 

Young  beets,  young  turnips,  young  carrots  and  parsnips, 
baked  potatoes  (sweet  and  Irish),  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

String  beans,  onions  and  many  winter  vegetables  require 
from  one  and  n  half  to  two  hours  to  cook.  Prepare  them  and 
lei  lav  in  <-<>M  water  half  ;in  hour  makes  them  nicer. 

STUFFED   TOMATOES. 

Take  large,  round,  firm  tomatoes,  remove  top,  also  centers; 
fill  with  the  following:  Mix  well  some  cold  chopped  meat, 
bread  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  plenty 
of  1  utter;  add  the  centers  of  tomatoes;  fill  the  shells;  replace 
the  lop.  tie  with  string;  lay  in  pan  with  hot  drippings  or  but- 
ler to  season.  Put  in  oven  half  hour  to  Drown  and  bake 
t  h rough.  Serve  hot. 

MRS.  DOPKINS. 
SPANISH  BEANS. 

Boil  pink  beans  in  clear  water  until  tender;  one  tablespoon 
lard;  drain  beans,  saving  water;  fry  beans  In  hot  lard  five 
iminutes,  add  water  they  were  cooked  in  and  boil  a  few  min- 
mtcs;  add  half  cup  cheese  and  let  melt.  Serve  with  Spanish 
dressing. 

MBS.  ED.  DOBSOX. 
STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  good  si/.cd  potatoes;  when  done  cut  off  top  the  long 
way;  scoop  out  the  inside  and  mash;  season  with  huttor,  cream, 
salt,  popper  and  white  of  egg.  Stir  all  till  very  light,  refill  the. 
potatoes;  make  smooth  and  rub  top  with  yolk  of  egg  and  but- 
ter. Set  in  oven  to  brown.  Served  hot. 

MRS  HOOD,  San  Francisco. 

STRING  BEANS.  £-£  ^ 

Remove  string  from  beans,  cut  lengthwise,  then  break  into 
•small  pieces,  boil  until  tender  in  salt  water.  Put  onion  in  pan 

French  Peas,  25c  can — Kutner- Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE   RECIPES. 


and   fry;   add   flour   ami   brown,   then   soup   stock;    \\iieu    it    has 
boiled  put  in  the  beans  and  let  boil  five  minutes. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  PREPARE  SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Peel  and  slice  in  pieces  half  inch  wide  across  the  squash,  salt 
jand  pepper,  then  roll  in  corn  meal.  Fry  brown  on  each  side 
an  hot  lard  or  butter.  Spread  little  butter  on  after  placing 
on  dish  before  serving. 

ME 8.  M.  P.  TBOXLEB. 

SWEET  POTATOES  BAKED  WITH  SUGAR. 
Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes;   place  in  deep  baking  pan  and 
almost  cover  with  water.       Put  one  cup  sugar  and  small  pieces 
of  butter  all  over  the  top.       Flavor  with  nutmeg       Let  cook 
^mtil  well  done,  top  pieces  brown  and  syrup  thick. 

MRS.  L. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Kiglit  large  sweet  peppers,  cut  tops  off  and  remove  seeds; 
throw  into  salt  water,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  One  cupful 
cold  boiled  veal,  one  cupful  green  corn,  one  cupful  white  bread 
'crumbs,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  saltspoonful  white  pepper, 
chop  all  very  fine  and  fill  peppers.  .lust  before  putting  -  n 
tops  add  butter  size  walnut;  close  up  and  s>tand  in  deep  pan, 
pour  over  one  cupful  of  stock  or  water  and  cook  one  half  hour 
in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  ('.  II.  SCHfYKLKY. 
CORN  OYSTERS. 

Mix  one  pint  of  grated  green  corn  with  three  tablespooni'uls 
of  milk  or  cream,  one  small  teacupful  of  flour  and  U  teacup  of 
melted  butter,  one  well  beaten  egg,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  !••!  teaspoonful  of  pepper  Fry  in  hot  butter. 

BEETS  GERMAN  STYLE. 

Boil,  peel  and  chop;  have  a  skillet  on  stove  with  butter  hot; 
turn  beets  in;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir  well:  let  brown. 
Just  before  sending  to  table  pour  in  half  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

MRS.   NETTIE  BECKMAX. 
GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

To  each  pint  of  corn  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  cream,  one  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt  and  about 
one  teblespoonful  flour,  just  enough  to  make  batter  right 
consistency.  Beat  well  and  fry  on  hot  griddle  like  regular 
griddle  cakes. 

Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit,  15c  package—Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


GENUINE  MEXICAN  BEANS  AS  PREPARED  IN  MEXICO. 

Vsc  pink  beans,  -which  may  lie  procured  at  all  grocery  stores. 
To  2  cups  of  beans.  ;iiii!  I!  cups  of  water  and  soak  over  night. 
If  in  a  hurry  one  may  boil  beans  without  previous  soaking,  but 
the  soaking  reduces  the  time  oi'  cooking  by  one  hour.  Add 
a  small  onion  ami  boil  gently  until  beans  will  mash  between 
fingers.  l)o  not  make  the  mistake  of  throwing  away  liquid 
in  which  beans  are  boiled.  Into  a  frying  pan,  no  less  than 
two  inches  deep,  place  a  large  cooking  spoonful  of  fresh  lard. 
Allow  it  to  become  very  hot  (this  is  the  secret  of  beans  not 
being  greasy  after  frying),  and  with  a  perforated  spoon,  lay 
the  beans,  free  of  liquid,  gently  into  pan.  During  this  pro- 
cess the  pan  may  be  moved  to  back  of  stove  to  avoid  setting 
fire  to  lard,  which  will  unavoidably  spatter.  After  laying  in 
as  many  bean*  as  will  absorb  lard,  place  pan  again  over  hot 
fire  and  mix  leans  and  lard  thoroughly  until  beans  appear  to 
have  a  coating  of  lard  and  begin  to  burst.  Add  a  cupful  of 
liquid  in  which  beans  were  boiled  and  gently  crush  beans  with 
cooking  spoon,  but  do  not  mash.  Xow  add  remainder  of 
liquid  and  allow  to  simmer  on  back  of  stove  for  about  one-half 
hour,  or  until  beans  are  of  consistency  desired-- cither  with 
considerable  liquid  (but  thick)  or  quite  dry.  Success  de- 
pends upon  ol  serving  the  following  rules:  Do  not  add  salt 
iini  il  beans  are  boiled  soft.  The  onion  is  not  perceptible  after 
conking,  only  giving  the  beans  the  characteristic  Mexican 
Taste  which  no  spice  can  produce.  Eave  lard  at  boiling  point. 
lie  not  1  oil  leans  in  tin.  Prepared  spices  or  Mexican  Chile 
may  be  added  after  the  last  portion  of  liquid  is  used.  Re- 
pealed warmings  improve  taste.  If  very  (.try  add  a  little. 
water  and  place  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

EXAMINER   PRIZE   RECIPE. 
SUCCOTASH. 

-Hoil  one  quart  lima  or  string  beans  until  tender,  cut  down 
the  middle  the  grains  of  1  do/,,  ears  of  corn,  nut  scrape;  drain 
off  water  from  beans;  add  the  corn;  season  with  salt  and  .pep- 
per and  a  good  lump  of  butter.  If  too  dry  iuld  a  little  cream 
or  milk.  Cook  1  wenly  minutes  after  adding  the  corn. 

MRS.  D.  S.  FISH. 
GREEN  CORN  PATTIES. 

Take  ]-2  ears  of  grated  or  scraped  corn;  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  Hour:  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  one  egg  well  beaten;  drop 
in  small  cakes  in  hot  1  utter  or  lam.  Half  the  reejpe  may  be 
used  for  smaller  familv. 


Jello,  all  flavors,  lOc  package — Kutner-Goldstein  Co 


1 


A  GOOD  COOK 

HffS  NEED  OF         ^^ 

Good 

Kitchen 
Utensils 

With  Which  to  Cook 

And  She  Can  Get  them  by  Looking  at   Our   Lines. 
Everything  Necessary  at  Hand  For  a  ::::::: 

Complete  Kitchen. 


LEE.  W.  FOSTER 
MERCANTILE  <5. 

121  West  Seventh  St.  Hanford 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


POTATO   SCALLOP. 

Take  six  or  eight  medium  sized  potatoes;  pare  and  slice 
thin;  put  into  your  pan  a  layer  of  potatoes,  a  little  salt,  pepper 
and  butter  and  a  small  amount  of  flour;  then  add  another  lav- 
sr  of  potatoes,  and  so  on;  pour  on  enough  milk  to  almost  cover 
them,  then  bake.  Sweet  potatoes  may  fce  done  the  same  way. 

PRIED  TOMATOES. 

Cut    large    round    tomatoes    in    halves    and    flour    the    inside 
ickly;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  allow  the  butter 
o  get  very  hot  before  putting  in  tomatoes  and  brown  on  both 
Serve  with  cream  gravy  or  any  way  you  like. 

'MRS.  DOBSOX. 

SCAI  LOPED   POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes,  then  put  a  layer  in  baking  dish- 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butler  until*  dish  is  full-  put 
over  top  a  littl-o  cream  or  milk  and  a  few  breaU  crumbs  and 
small  pieces  of  butter.  Rake  an  hour  and  serve  hot. 

MRS.  C.  C.  FARNSWORTH. 
BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Take  six  smooth,  round  tomatoes,  (not  too  ripe),  cut  a  slice 
from  the  smooth  end  of  each  and  with  a  teaspoon  carefully  re- 
move the  pulp;  lay  each  slice  with  the  tomato  from  which  it 
WH8  ,-ut;  then  hash  one  onion  and  a  little  of  white  cabbage- 
:-rumb  in  two  slices  of  stale  white  bread;  add  a  half  cup  of 

rm         1Utl 


>"   onc 


cli     s,i  '  c     caspoonu 

eh;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pill  the  tomatoes,  replace 
the  covers,  butter  a  baking  pan,  lay  the  stem  side  down,  anl 
bake  %  hour.  If  nicely  done,  they  are  a  handsome  dish  and 


SUE.  N.  DUNHAM. 
STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Peel  six  peppers,  placing  in  oven  until  they  blister;   remove 

e  seeds  and  fill  with  cheese;  roll  in  flour;  beat  separated  and 

I    very    light    the    wh.t.-s    an,!    yolkos    of    three    eggs;    then 

Serve  a*  on"  ^  PePPe™  '"  h0t  lard  and  fry  Jight  brown- 

MRS.    HI).   DOBSON. 
SCALLOPED  CORN. 

.  *          "*?***   (f°r  °""   Cnn  C0rn>5   butter  a  bake 

cover  bottom  with  layer  of  cor,  over  which  sprinkle  a  lit- 
butter,  then  a  layer  of  corn  until 


French  Mushrooms, 


12  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


dish  is  full.  The  top  layer  should  be  corn,  with  bits  of  but- 
ter. Pour  over  all  about  one  cup  of  milk.  Govern  amount 
of  milk  by  moisture  in  corn.  Bake  one  half  hour. 

MBS.  JUDD  SMITH. 

STUFFED  SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Select  squashes  of  the  same  size;  boil  xmtil  tender ;  si  li- 
the tops  and  save  them.  Have  ready  rolled  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  very 
little  chopped  onion,  moistened  with  the  squash  that  is  re- 
moved from  the  inside;  add  one  egg  or  more,  according  to  the 
amount  prepared;  mix  well  and  refill  the  squashes,  replace  the 
tops  and  bake  until  quite  brown. 

MRS.  D.  S.  FISH. 

FRIED  CORN. 

Take  about  six  good  ears  of  corn;  cut  from  cob  so  as  to  cut 
each  grain  about  half  into;  scrape  balaiice  off  with  knife;  add 
almost  tablespoonful  flour,  cup  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Have  frying  pan  on  stove  containing  tablespoonful  butter  or 
lard,  piping  hot;  put  corn  in  this  and  let  remain  without 
stirring  until  brown,  next  to  frying  pan;  turn  over  and  let 
brown  again,'  and  so  on  until  almost  all  perfectly  brown.  Just 
try  this  one  time. 

MES.  LANDIS. 
POTATO  PUFF. 

Take  two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  mix  well,  then  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  cup 
of  milk.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 


G.  C.  AYDELOTT,  M3R,  D.  MURRAY,  SUPT. 

f/anforc/  Ice  Company 

Manufacturers 

PURE  DISTILLED  WATER  ICE 

HO(V1£  INDUSTRY 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


13 


Vegetables 


14 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


. 

fwuutJMr  uSU£ 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


15 


r 


J?     XV 


\  \ 


^t*^'*'A^' 


-' 


if  " 


16 


FAVORITE   RF.CIFES. 


(-fa^^C^ts&C    X^-£— 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


JMeats 


Bleats  to  lie  roasted  ov  boiled,  should  be  given  the  greatest 
amount  of  heat  possible  at  first,  that  the  surface  may  be 
hardened  and  the  juices  retained. 

POT  ROAST  BEEF. 

Take  a  lean  piece  of  beef,  cut  a  little  fat  from  it  and  fry 
in  an  iron  pot  a  fe\v  minutes,  SIMS  m  the  beef  and  sprinkle 
over  a  little  llour;  put  in  the  pot  and  fry  l.rown  on  all  sides. 
Pour  in  hot  water  to  rover  the  I, eel,  cover  lightly  and  cook 
until  tender.  Add  a  little  boiling  water  at  intervals  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  around  the  meat 
en  the  plat  I'M-. 

MRS.  FRANCES  RUSSEM. 
HOT  POT. 

Slice  alternai'-  layers  of  mealy  potatoes  ana  onions  in  deep 
agate  or  earthen  dish;  salt  and  pepper  ead,  layer;  nearly  cover 
with  water.  Place  a  nice  rump  roast  of  beef,  which  has  been 
well  salted,  on  top:  put  in  onions  and  I  ake  from  one  to  two 
hours,  according  to  amount  of  potatoes  and  onions  and  size  of 
Sometimes  if  roast  is  not  large  it  is  best  to  cook  the 
variables  a  while  before  laying  on  the  meat,  especially  jf 
one  likes  rare  beef.  The  potatoes  must  he  very  soft  so  that 
juice  around  them  is  rather  thick.  They  ;xre  not  spoiled  by 
cooking  .1,  long  time. 

MU'S.  11ATT1K    VYOKSWICK. 
SPANISH  DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN. 

One  dozen  dried  red  peppers,  cover  with  water  and  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  drain  off  water;  put  peppers  Jhnnigii  siev. 
Then  take  one  tablespoonful  lard  and  heat  in  skillet;  mix  in 
one  tablespoon  flour;  put  in  the  red  pepper  and  season  with 
salt.  Stew  chicken  and  when  tender  pour  dressing  over  and 
let  it  all  heac  together  a  few  minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to 
serve.  This  dressing  is  good  for  beans  or  any  Spanish  disb. 

MKS.  KD.   DOBSOX. 
CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

One  chicken,  1  can  mushrooms,  1.  'quart  cream  (*/!>  milk  will 
do);  ~>  lallespoons  flour.  '(  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  ^  of  a 

Bromangelon,  all  flavors,  152  package — Kutner-Goiclst^in  Co. 


18  FAVORITE    RECIPES. 

large  onion  (grated),  salt,  ami  a  bit  of  cayenne;  put  cream  in 
double  boiler;  put  butter  in  when  heated;  add  flour  stirred  in 
a  little  milk;  add  onion  and  nutmeg;  pour  over  picked  chicken 
and  mushrooms.  Bake  forty  minutes. 

ANNA   DOPKi.\>'>. 

TULLOCHGORUM   ROLL. 

Three  pounds  of  beek  steak,  and  %  pound  of  suet  (-hopped 
fine,  3  rolled  crackers,  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  walnut;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  roll  tightly  in  a  loaf,  and  bake.  Place  a  few 
slices  of  bacon  on  top,  before  putting  in  oven. 

MRS.   D.  E.   CAMERON. 

SALMON  PUDDING. 

One  can  salmon,  2  eggs,  %  cup  milk,  butter  sixe  of  walnut; 
salt  and  pepper;  drain  liquor  from  can,  remove  skin  and 
bones;  add  eggs  and  other  ingredients  and  mix  well;  put  in  a 
greased  tin;  set  this  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  1;"5  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven;  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
rings. 

MRS.  D.  R.  CAMERON. 
BEEF  MOULD. 

Break  two  thick  pieces  of  brown  bread  into  sufficient  gravy 
to  moisten  it,  and  add  enough  minced  cold  cooked  beef  to 
fill  a  quart  mould;  season  with  s;i!t  and  pepper  :ind  a  le-aspooa- 
ful  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  mix  these  ingredients  with  enough 
raw  egg  1o  bind  the  whole  together  and  press  firmly  into  a 
buttered  mould  (floured);  cover  tightly  anrt  boil  one  hour, 
turn  from  mould  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

MEAT  EUCHE. 

Oust:  Three  cups  flour,  '2  level  teaspooiifnls  baking 
powder.  1  teaspoonful  salt,  %  cup  lard,  enough  milk  to  make 
T  dough;  roll  about  %  inch  thick.  iy2  pounds  chopped 
beef;  put  1  tablcspoonful  drippings  in  frying  pan,  when  hot 
add  seasoned  meat  and  cook  till  almost  done;  remove  from 
stove,  place  it  on  the  dough  and  roll;  place  in  the  oven  and 
b»ke  until  .lone.  (iravy:  Place  2  table-spoonfuls  lard  J.i 

ying  pan,  1  heaping  table  spoonful  flour;  add  water  to  make 
gravy,  r.ud  2  table'  spoonfuls  Gelhardt's  Eagle  Chili  Powder- 
place  I  .-up  -rated  cheese  and  1  good  sized  onion  (chopped) 
on  loaf;  pour  gravy  over  and  serve  immediatelv. 

MRS.  F/V.  DEWEY. 

Sliced  or  Grated  Pineapple,  15c  tin—Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  19 


BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  :unl  one  half  pounds  uncooked  beef,  three-fourths  of  si 
pound  salt  pork  (both  chopped),  one  cupful  rolled  crackers, 
Iwo  eggs  well  beaten,  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
jn'|i|icr,  butter  si/.e  of  an  egg.  Small  piece  of  suet  chopped 
mav  l,o  used  if  preferred  in  place  of  salt  pork.  Sprinkle 
cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top  after  it  is  formed 
into  a  loaf.  Hake  two  hours. 

MRS.   H.   H.  FISHER,  Woodland. 
VEAL  LOAF. 

Chop  together  three  pounds  log  or  loin  vea;,  and  %  pound 
salt  pork;  roll  one  dozen  crackers;  put  one  half  of  them  in 
the  veal  with  two  beaten  eggs;  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
mix  all  together,  and  make  into  solid  form;  then  take  re- 
mainder of  crackers  and  spread  smoothly,  moistening  the 
crackers  with  very  little  water.  In  baking  place  loaf  in 
small  bake  pan:  place  this  in  larger  one,  in  which  you  hav-3 
put  enough  water  to  steam  the  loaf,  and  cover  all  with  an- 
other pan.  Bake  one  hour  and  serve  cold. 

MRS.  .1.   A.  MOOKK. 
TURKEY  DRESSING. 

Torn  bread,  half  dozen  small  biscuits,  season  with  pepper, 
nalt  and  sage  to  taste.  lioil  or  roast  the  turkey  until  tender; 
pour  enough  of  liquor  from  turkey  over  the  bread  to  moisten 
well;  mix. 

MRS.    CORTNER, 
A  NICE  WAY  TO  COOK  STEAK. 

Hound  steak,  well  pounded;  salt  and  pepper  on  each  side; 
roll  in  flour.  Have  lard  piping  hot;  place  steak  in  and  brown 
well  on  each  side;  then  pour  in  just  a  little  hot  water,  and 
rover  quickly;  steam  until  done.  Serve  hor. 

MKrs.   ,\.   I,.  LANDSS,  Sr. 
BAKED   CHICKEN. 

Have  chicken  salted  over  night;  boil  until  tender;  have 
ready  dressing  made  of  about  equal  parts  corn  bread  and 
biscuit;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  motsten  with  stock 
from  chicken;  fill  chicken  with  dressing,  also  on  outside;  place 
in  pan  in  oven  with  enough  stock  to  keep  moist;  bake  until 
brown.  Serve  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  two,  and  gravy 
made  by  stirring  tablespoonfnl  flour  in  pan  (after  having  re- 
moved chicken)  and  one  cup  or  more  sweet  milk;  let  cook  until 
it  thickens  some. 

MRS.  JOHN  HALL. 


Huyler's  Cocoa,  30c  tin— Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


20  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

OIK-  i|imrt  of  oysters  put  in  a  colander,  drain  off  juice,  wash 
carefully:  butter  a  deep  pudding  dish,  cover  bottom  with 
cracker  crumbs,  (not  too  fine)  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
bits  of  butter;  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  seasoned,  a  layer  of 
cracker  rruml  s,  thru  oycstcrs  until  :ill  are  used.  I'ut  i-rack-T 
crumbs  on  top  with  bits  of  butter.  Pour  over  a  few  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oyster  liquor,  strained,  and  one  cirpful  cream:  l>;iu.-, 
covered,  one  half  hour;  uncovered,  half-hour.  Very  fine. 

MRS.  JOE  BIDDLE. 
SALMON  LOAF. 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  oil  from  one  can  salmon.  Remove  bones  and  skin 
from  salmon  and  add  to  above  mixture;  work  until  very  fine; 
put  in  greased  baking  powder  can,  cover  ami  steam  one  hour. 
Remove  from  can  while  hot  and  set  in  ice.  Serve  sliced  on 
platter,  garnished  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  parsley  and  quarters 
of  lemons. 

MRS.  AVILSIE  HALL. 
WILD  DUCKS. 

Ducks,  onions,  soup  stock,  cloves,  ginger,  vinegar,  browned 
flour,  claret,  2  lay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper.  Soak  the  ducks  in 


...It  All  Depends.. 

JUpon  the  Quality  of  the  Meat 


THE  BEST  COOK  CAN'T  MAKE    POOR     MEAT     TENDED! 

REMEMBER    TEL\T    WHEN    YOU    TRY 
SOME  OF  THESE  MEAT  RECIPES 

And  Order  where  you  arc  certain  you  will  get  the  best  of 
MeatF.  Where  they  are  careful  in  buying  the  stocn,  careful  in 
slaughtering,  careful  in  refrigerating,  and  careful  in  delivering 
it  to  you  in  time,  is  at 

The  Ltmdis  Neuter 

120  W.  Seventh  St..  Hanfcrd  'Phone  Main  62 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  21 


Bait  water,  vinegar  and  onions  over  night;  Avash  and 
cut.  them  up;  after  drying  them  well  fry  in  fat,  then 
add  the  browned  flour,  browned  onions,  soup  stoc.k, 
claret;  stick  cloves  in  an  onion  and  add  bay  leaves;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  ginger,  and  cook  slowly. 

MBS.  CROSS. 
PLANKED  FISH. 

Split  open  a  firm  white  fish,  remove  back  bone,  lay  on  well 
buttered  plank  or  fish  sheet  and  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and 
pepper;  spread  with  soft  butter;  bake  in  liot  oven  10  or  15 
minutes;  then  surround  fish  with  thick  border  of  well  seasoned 
mashed  potatoes  and  bake  about  15  minutes  longer,  basting 
frequent  I  v ;  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley,  and  serve. 

MRS.  JOE  BIUDLE. 

SPANISH  STEW. 

Take  the  desired  quantity  of  stew  meat;  cook  slowly  lill 
well  done,  sailing  to  laste  when  placed  over  fire.  Wash 
thoroughly  six  or  eight  dried  red  peppers;  open,  remove  seeds, 
core  and  veins;  then  put  the  peppers  in  a  small  pan,  pour  over 
cold  water  to  barely  cover  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
to  cook  slowly.  About  an  hour  before*  meal  time  empty  into 
a  strainer  and  rub  through,  working  the  pulp  thoroughly 
through  the  sieve.  This  will  give  a  red,  gravy-like  liquid. 
Heat  your  frying  pan  and  brown  a  little  sliced  onion  in  half 
butter,  half  drippinys;  add  to  this  the  meat  skimmed  out  from 
its  liquid;  stir  it  about  well  and  add  flour  to  brown;  then 
pour  in  the  pepper  gravy  and  the  meat  liquid,  and  cook  slowly 
till  serving.  Half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  aaded  just  before 
serving  adds  to  the  dish.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  a 
family  of  five  or  six. 

MRS.  J.  F.  MICHEL. 
OYSTER  PATTIES. 

I /me  patty-pans  with  thin  pastry,  pressing  it  well  t>  The  tin; 
put  a  piece  of  bread  or  a  ball  of  paper  in  each;  cover  them 
with  paste  and  brush  them  live..'  witl.  !h"  white  o'J  an  egg; 
cut  an  inch  square  of  pastry  thin,  I>I:H ••  on  center  of  each; 
glaze  this  also  with  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  to  L'<) 
minutes;  remove  bread  or  paper  when  half:  cold:  scald  as  many 
oysters  as  you  require  (allowing  three  for  each  patty)  in  their 
ow"n  liquor;  strain  the  liquor  after  scalding,  cutting  oysters 
if  very  large;  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of  llo;ir 
into  a  sauce  pan;  stir  together  over  the  flro  till  the  flour 
smells  cooked;  then  pour  half  pint  of  oyster  liquor  and  half 

Lipton's  Teas,  POc  Ib — At  Kutner's 


22  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


pint  of  milk  into  the  Hour  ami  butter  (if  you  have  cream  use 
it  instead  of  milk),  stir  till  it  is  a  thick,  smooth  sauce;  put 
oysters  into  this  and  let  them  boil  once;  bea«  tho  yolks  of  two 
eggs;  remove  oysters  from  stove,  and  stir  the  eggs  into  them 
till  the  sauce  looks  like  thick  custard;  v.  hen  cool  fill  patties. 
When  they  are  to  be  used  place  in  a  warm  ovou  and  heat  well 
before  serving. 

MBS    1>.   If.    0. 
TO  BOIL  HAM. 

Remove  the  bone,  place  the  ham  in  a  clean  ham  sack,  pla^e 
in  a  kettle  of  tola  water,  then  add  one  Iiu'f  cup  vinegar  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  mustard;  toil  about  two  hours,  then  pour 
off  the  water,  put  in  hot  water  and  boil  one  h'>ur  ;ni<!  a  half. 
Dc.'icJon*. 

Mi.S.   A.  V.  TAYLOR. 
OYSTER  PATTIES. 

To  make  crust,  take  3  pints  flour,  -'X-  p.v.in.l  Urnl,  i  leaspoon 
hiking  powder,  little  salt,  mix  witli  milk.  Killing:  Take  - 
oun-ies  butter,  \'->  pint  sweet  cream.  "1  tablospooul'uig  flour,  :> 
(isv.eii  large  oysters,  with  salt  and  pepper;  melt  butter;  stir  iti 
li.'Hir:  boil  cream  and  stir  in;  cock  the  oysiers  ii;  their  o\vn 
1  roth  till  they  are  cooke  1  through;  skim  ofl'  the  froth:  strain 
the  oysters  and  add  the  cream  sauce  and  fill  the  crusts. 

:UKS.  Tl'TTLK. 
A  LA  MARQUISE. 

Clean  and  cut  up  a  chicken,  boil  slowly  till  very  tender  and 
let  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled;  make  a  cream 
sauce,  using  cream  for  the  liquid;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
chopped  parsley  ;ui«l  celery  salt;  drain  the  chick. MI  Tree  from 
skin  fsit  and  bone,  and  chop  fine;  make  layer  of  cream  sauco 
in  a  baking  dish;  spread  a  layer  of  ehickea  upon  it,  then  a 
layer  of  canned  mushrooms,  chopped  fine;  then  sauce,  and  so 
"ii  till  dish  is  full;  pour  over  the  liquor  drained  from  mush- 
nxmis.  sprinkle  with  crumbs;  dot  with  butter  and  bake  brown. 
This  is  very  nice  for  luncheons  baked  in  custard  cups  or  little 
paper  rases  sold  by  caterers. 

MRS.   TUTTLE. 
OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

One  rr.i-rt  fresh  oysters  chopped  as  in  :;a;ad;  beat  fonr 
eggs,  une  cup  ,,f  Hour,  and  one-half  cup  of  milk;  season  with 
salt  and  butter;  I  eat  in  chopped  oysters  and  fry  in  part  but- 
''•'•  and  lard.  Serve  while  hot. 

IlKRDKLLA  DOPKINS. 

Van  Camp's  Soups,  all  kindt,  2  cans  for  25c— At  Kutner's. 


FAVORITE  KECIPES.  23 

HAM  PATTIES. 

One  pint  of  ham,  well  cooked;  mix  with  two  parts  of  bread 
crumbs  \vot  with  milk;  put  batter  in  gem  pans;  break  an 
egg  over  each;  sprinkle  top  of  each  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
bake  until  brown. 

M  US.   TUTTLE. 
FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  oysters  from  the  liquid  and  drain  them;  make  a  bat- 
ter of  one  egg,  a  little  milk  and  flour  to  thicken;  season  with 
salt  and  popper;  dip  oysters  in  hatter,  then  in  rolled  cracker 
crumbs;  fry  in  equal  parts  hot  lard  and  butter — having  plenty 
of  fat  in  skillet. 

MRS.  .7 HDD  SMITH. 
STEAK  ROLL. 

Two  pounds  liamburg  steak,  1'  tablespooiit'uls  of  butter,  '! 
rolled  crackers,  2  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  mix  all  to- 
gether and  form  in  one  roll;  bake  an  hour  and  a  half;  serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  Good  sliced  cold. 

MRS.  D.  S.  FISH. 


CITY  BAKERY 


THE    ONLY    COFFEE    PARLOR 
THE  NICEST  ICE-CREAM  PARLOR 
THE  ONLY  CANDY  FACTORY 
In  Hanford 


What  You  Want  and 


When  You  Want  It 


W.  BERNSTEIN,  Proprietor 


24 


FAVORITE   RECIPES. 


J 
I 

; 


-    / 


0 


5*/U^-*^ 


Meats 


_^. 

^ 


*"^ 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


25 


4.   £<y 


-• 


26  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  27 


£8  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Gntrecs 


CELERY  SANDWICHES. 

Use  dainty,  little  baking  powder  biscuits,  freshly  bilked,  but 
fold,  or  white  horn*1  made  bread  for  these  sandwiches.  Only 
the  very  tender  part  of  the  celery  should  be  used,  and  clion- 
ped  fine  and  put  in  ice  water  until  needed.  Add  a  few  chcp- 
ped  walnnts  to  the  celery  and  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  tn 
hold  them  together.  Butter  the  bread  before  cutt.ing  from  ! !>.••> 
loaf,  spread  one  slice  with  the  mixture  and  press  another  over 
it.  If  1  iscuits  are  used  split  and  butter  them.  They  should 
be  small,  very  thin  and  delicately  browned. 

CHILLI  CANCASA. 

One  spoonful   lard,   one   onion,   four   or   live      screen      pe; 
two  good   sized  tomatoes,  half   cup  of   cheese,     cut      in      small 
pieces.     Fry  onions  :>nd   peppers,  add   tomatoes   and    fry   all   to- 
Aether,  and   when   dry  add   half  cup   milk,     .lust    before   taking 
off  stove,  add  cheese. 

IMKS.    KD.   DOBSO.X. 
POTATO  FRITTERS. 

':•  cup  sweet  milk.  2  tablespoon  ids  mashed  potatoes,  I 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  egg,  1  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  For  each  fritter  drop  a  te:ispoonful  in 
a  kettle  of  hot  lard. 

MATT  IK   BALDWIN. 
OMELET. 

3  eggs  beaten  separately;  to  yolks  add  half  cup  cracker 
cruml.s,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  s;i!t.  Stir  iu  beaten 
whites:  lightly  pour  into  a  hot  buttered  spider:  ;'ry  M  li^ht 
brown;  serve  hot.  Sufficient  for  a  family  of  three. 

MRS.    L.   ('.    1)  CXI  I  A.M. 
FRITTERS. 

One  ci;p  sweet  milk.  1  i-gg.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  a 
litTie  s-i!t;  tionr  to  drop  from  spoon  into  hot  lard. 

MRS.   .1.    \V.   BARMorb'. 
CHEESE  CAKES. 

1  <-up  four.  '•_.  cup  cheese  (yrated).  ' .  L.  cup  litter.  '  L.  tea- 
sj.oonfrl  1  aking  j  owder:  salt  to  taste,  ami  a  dash  of  cayeiMie 
pepp.-r:  yolk  of  1  e-n.  }{„),  the  butter  lightly  into  the  Jlo-.r, 

Underwood's  Deviled  Ham,  30c  can—At  Kutncr's 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  29 

with  which  baking  powder  li:is  been  sifted,  add  the  cheese, 
salt  ami  pepper,  ami  mix  to  a  light  paste  with  yolk  of  egg. 
Roil  out  on  a  floured  hoard,  cut  with  very  small  liiscuit  cutter 
and  l;ake  in  hot  oveu.  Serve  with  salads. 

\l  US.    [).    S.    FISH. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

I'oil  the  egos  halt'  an  hour;  cool  and  shell;  halve  and  re- 
move , yolks.  Mash  yolks  and  work  in  a  little  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  oil  or  melted  butter  and  mustard  and 
a  little  vinegar  and  chopped  parsley;  press  into  the  hollows 
of  the  whites.  Oarnish  the  dish  with  parsley. 

MRS.   D.   S.  FISH. 

PEACH  FRITTERS. 

For  the  hatter — One  i-up  of  flour,  two  eggs,  half  cup  co!d 
water,  half  teaspoon  salt,  tal  lespoon  of  melted  butter:  separate 
the  yolks  and  whites.  Heat  the  yolks  enough  to  be  well 
mixed.  Add  the  water  and  stir  this  in  the  flour.  Add  tl.e 
salt  and  butter  and  heat  until  perfectly  smooth.  Whip  tho 
(whites  of  ey.^s  to  a  still'  froth  and  stir  them  lightly  into  tho 
Hatter.  Pare,  halve  and  stone  a  number  of  firm  peaches  and 
have  ready  a  deep  kettle  of  smoking  hot  fat.  Dip  each  h-ilf 
peach  in  the  latter  and  drop  into  the  fat.  turning  them  over 
that  they  may  le  evenlv  colored.  Drain  on  unglazed  pap-T 
and  serve,  dusting  them  lightly  with  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.   ('.   M.   CROSS. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  ilor.r,  1  cup  chopped  apples,  J  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt,  teas]  nun  taking  powder;  stir  well.  Frv  in  hot  lard. 

'MRS.    WT'K. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

ii  tablespoons  tlour,  '•'>  taHespoons  butter,  .';  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  grated  cheese,  seasoning  to  taste.  Make  a  thick,  white 
sauce  by  blending  butter  and  flour  in  sauce  pan;  then  adding 
milk  and  stirring  until  boiling.  Cook  3  minutes,  then  stir  in 
the  cheese  and  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick  ;season  to  las!,-, 
remembering  that  cheese  may  be  salty.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  ".;.ike  in  a  greased  dish  about  twenty-five 
minutes.  Serve  quickly  as  it  falls. 

LITY    roRTXEK. 

Vermicilli,  Macaroni,  Spaghetti,  lib.  boxes,     15c — At     KutnerN 


30  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Gntrees 


TAVOBITE  RECIPES.  31 


32  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  33 


34  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Bread 


RULES  FOR  MAKING  BREAD. 

Twice  as  much  flour  as  wetting,  is  a  good  rule  to  follow,  not 
to  have  bread  too  stiff.  For  four  large  loaves:  3  pints  of 
liquid;  butter  or  lard,  size  of  an  egg;  tablespoon  sugar;  sail. 
to  taste.  Cold  weather  lequires  more  yeast  than  in  warm 
weather.  Bread  is  better  raised  slowly  and  not  too  warm. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  and  one  half  cupfuls  sour  milk,  one  half  cupful  sour 
cream,  one  cupful  corn  meal,  and  one  cupful  white  flour,  two 
cupfuls  graham  flour,  one  cupful  syrup,  salt  to  taste,  two 
teaspoons  soda.  If  sour  cream  is  not  obtainable  use  two 
cupfuls  sour  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted. 
Steam  three  hours. 

MRS.  JUDD  SMITH. 

MUFFINS  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

2V-.'  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2  labl.-- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  and  add  to  the  milk — 1  cupful  milk  — 
1  tablespoonful  sugar,  little  salt.  This  will  make  ten  muf- 
lins. 

MRS.  D.  R.  CAMERON. 

LIGHT  BREAD. 

One  pint  good  yeast,  2  quarts  warm  water,  a  little  salt  and 
sugar.  Mix  in  sponge  over  night;  in  morning  stir  in  flour  to 
make  stiff;  knead  well  and  let  stand  until  light;  knead  in 
loaves;  set  aside  until  light. 

MRS.  C.  RAILSBACK. 

LIGHT  ROLLS. 

One  pound  of  bread  dough,  two  eggs  and  one  heaping  table- 
•spoon  of  butter.  When  your  broad  is  ready  to  make  into 
leaves,  take  one  pound  of  the  dough,  beat  the  eggs  thoroughly, 
melt  l>utter  and  mix  all  together.  It  will  be  necessary  to 
add  a  little  flour;  let  raise  and  when  light  knead  into  rolls 
and  let  stand  until  light,  and  bake  in  a  good,  hot  oven. 

MRS   SADIE    WILSON. 

Crabs,  per  can  2f>c — Kutner-Goldstem  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

1  scant  cup  rye  flour,  1  heaping  cup  graham,  1  cup  corn 
meal;  sift  1  oget  her;  beat  thoroughly  with  1  cup  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  cup  sour  milk,  ''_>  cup  brown  s 
*J  teaspoonfuls  soda.  1  toa spoonful  salt.  Steam  ,'>  hours. 
];")  minutes.  .Cool  a  i'e\v  minutes  before  cutting. 

MRS.  E.  T.  COSPUR. 
CORN  BREAD. 

-  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda,  I1/,  cups  butter- 
milk, -  tablespoons  melted  lard.  Add  enougli  corn  meal  to 
make  very  thin  batter. 

MRS.  JOHN  CORTNER. 

Veast:  Cook  two  good  sized  potatoes  and  mash  thoroughly; 
add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  a  pint  of.  boiling  water.  Let  stand  until  hike  warm; 
then  dissolve  one  cake  of  Magic  yeast  and  add  to  this.  Let, 
reast  stand  twelve  hours  before  using. 

Bread:  Take  flour,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  yeast,  and  one  pint  of  hike 
warm  water  and  mix  to  a  stiff  dough  and  km-ad  thoroughly  jfor 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  In  hot  weather  let  rise  five  or 
six  hours;  in  cold  weather  double  the  time.  Then  thoroughly 
knead  again;  mould  into  pans  and  bake  for  one  hour.  This 
recipe  makes  eight  loaves. 

MRS.   S.  M.  JOTNKR. 
SOFT  EGG  BREAD. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten.  .MIC  half  teaspoon  salt,  1  scant  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  pint  buttermilk,  4  tablespoon?  white  corn  meal. 
Bake  quickly;  serve  hot.  Put  on  table  in  pan  you  bake  it  in. 

MRS.  LANDIS. 
SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

Scald  '!..  cup  of  new  milk;  thicken  with  corn  meal;  stand  in 
a  warm  place  over  riiyht.  In  the  morning  put  in  as  much 
warm  water  as  you  want  and  make  a  batte~  with  flour;  then 
when  il  is  light  add  r-_.  pint  of  new  milk  and  put  in  a  lump. 
When  it  is  light  mold  into,  loaves;  let  rise  nnd  bake. 

(ii-M.'TRrDK  LARISH  FOX,  Lemoore. 

MUFFINS. 

Beat  yolks  of  *2  eggs;  add  1  cup  milk,  a  pinch  salt,  one  pint 
flour  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
stitV  and  stir  in  gently.  Put  in  gem  pans  or  rings  to  bake 
quickly. 

MRS.  DUNHAM. 


Shrimps,  per  can  25c — Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


36  FAVORITE  EECIPES. 


SALT  RISING  BREAD   (Southern  Bread). 

Stir  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  1110:1]  into  one  half 
cupful  scalding  fresh,  sweet  milk.  ;it  night:  put  in  tin  cmi 
:mil  set  in  warm  place.  li;  the  morning  take  one  pint  warm 
water  (not  scalding),  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  i>\-ike  a  Latter  of 
flour  thick  enough  to  drop  off  point  of  a  knife.  Stir  in  mix- 
ture which  has  stood  over  night;  beat  well:  set  in  kettle  of 
warm  water;  cover  with  a  cloth:  keep  at  even  temperature 
It  should  Vic  light  and  foamy  in  about  two  hours.  Then  add 
one  and  one  half  pints  warm  water  (or  part  warm  milk  if 
desired),  dessert  spoonful  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  work  into 
loaves.  Knead  until  smooth;  put  in  bread  pans;  ><-r  over 
warm  water,  or  in  warm  place,  to  rise.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  When  done  keep  in  cool  place.  Delicious. 

MBS.    A.    L.   T.AXDIS.    SR. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

One  pint  of  graham   flour,   one   cup   of   sweet    milk.   twi> 
well   beaten,   one-half   cup   of   butter,    a    little    salt    and    sugar, 
two   teaspoonfuls   of   baking   powder.        Have    gem    pans    hot. 

MKS.    !•'.   V.    DK\VKV.. 

YEAST  BREAD. 

For  three  good  sized  loaves,  take  two  and  one  half  sifters 
of  flour,  add  salt  and  two  small  cupfuls  yeast;  mix  with  warm. 
not  hot,  water  until  the  dough  is  linn  and  cj.n  be  km-.i.'r  1 
without  stir-king  to  the  hands.  Grease  the  toj-  of  the  dough 
well  with  warm,  melted  lard;  cover  and  set  to  iis--  wiiere  t.ae 
dough  will  keep  warm.  In  three  hours  the  dough  should  be 
light  and  soft,  and  ready  to  mould  into  loaves.  (ip-ase  the 
top  of  the  loaves  with  warm  lard  and  let  rise  again.  'n  about- 
one  hour  the  bread  should  be  ready  to  bake.  '. fave  the  oven 
well  heated  and  bake  '•%  of  an  hour. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Three  heaping  tablespooufuls  flour.  '2  tablcspoonfuls  sugar. 
I  tablespoonful  salt.  Stir  well  and  scald  with  boiling  j.ota:  > 
water,  making  a  very  stiff  batter  that  can  be  well  bra;  •-:!. 
Mash  three  medium  sized  potatoes,  or  two  huge  ones,  ai-d  add 
to  the  above  mixture.  Heat  well  ami  add  more  boiling  po- 
tato \\ater  until  the  mixture  is  the  consistency  of  very  thin 
batter;  add  about  ' ._.  cupful  boiling  hot  water:  win 
enough  to  bear  finger  in.  add  Lj  cupful  good  yeast,  or  one 

cake    Magic    yeast,    which    has    1 i    well    soake-i    in     ' ._.    cupful 

warm,  not   hot.  water;  stir  well:  cover  and  set   in  a   warm  place 

Lobsters,  per  can  25c — Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


37 


to  rise.  When  the  potatoes  are  cooking,  take  as  many  hops 
as  can  he  held  with  the  finders  and  thumb  of  one  hand;  cover 
with  cold  water  and  set  where  it  will  boil.  As  soon  as  ?t 
comes  to  a  boil  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  will 
simmer  gently  until  used.  This  yeast  should  lie  made  the 
dav  before  it  is  used.  The  above  amount  will  make  about,  */• 
gallon,  and  if  kept  in  the  cellar,  or  other  .vml  place,  can  lie 
used  for  several  bakings,  and  will  make  ns  nice  bread  aa 
when  the  yeast,  is  first,  made. 


It  Gives  Entire  Satisfaction 


"CREAM  OF  WHEAT  FLOUR"  GIVES  US  F.NTIBK 
SATISFACTION  FOR  BAKING  CAKES,  BREAD  OK  ANY- 
THING FOR  WHICH  FLOUR  IS  USED.  WE  UST1  IT  ALTO- 
GETHER. 

MRS.  JUDD  SMITH. 
MRS.  J.  A.  MOORE, 
MRS.  R.  J.  HUDSON. 


38  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Bread 


FAVORITE  EECIPES.  39 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


42  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


Salads 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

*/2  cup  lemon  juice,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  3  tablespoons  oliv* 
oil,  1  small  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper,  1  cup  sour  cream.  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  1  ta  blespoon  sugar,  beaten  together.  Rent 
eggs,  oil,  salt  and  pepper  together;  add  the  lemon  juice,  then 
beat  in  the  cream.  Add  vinegar  to  taste. 

MBS.  E.  T.  COSPKU. 
APPLE  SALAD. 

1  cup  hashed  apples,  %  cup  walnut  meats,  cut  in  coar«« 
pieces;  %  cup  hashed  celery.  Serve  with  any  good  salad  dres»- 
ing. 

MATTIK  BALDWIN. 
NEUF   CHATEL  SALAD. 

Moisten  1  neuf  chatel  cheese  with  '2  tablespoonfula  s\v«»et 
milk;  form  into  small  ogg  shapes  and  serve  ID  r.osts  of  tot- 
tuce  leaves,  with  a  French  dressing  made  of  4  tablespooiifi:!* 
of  oil,  :;  tablespoonfnls  of  vinegar,  %  te:ispoonful  salt,  \'\ 
teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

MBS.   .10K    BIDDLK. 
BEAN  SALAD. 

Cold  Boston  baked  deans,  celery,  mayonnaisr.  Shave  cri*,>, 
white  celery  very  fine;  mix  with  the  beans  and  mayonnaise. 
and  serve  on  lettuce. 

MBS,   C.   M.   CROSS. 
VEGETABLE   SALAD. 

Use  French  bottled  beans,  use  French  bottled  onions,  us« 
bottled  peppers,  use  French  bottled  dressing. 

MRS.  CROSS. 
OYSTER  SALAD. 

3  quart  oysters.  1'  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  large;  spoonful  of  inrir- 
«•(!  butter,  1  teaspoonful  cadi  of  salt  and  pepper.  '.-_.  nip  vin- 
egar. 1  quart  of  celery.  1  eyg  beaten.  '2  teaspoonfuls  of  ma-.l« 
mustard.  ~2  pickled  cucumbers. 

MRS.    CROSS. 
SWEETBREAD   SALAD. 

1  pair  of  sweetbreads,  halt'  nip  mayonnaise  Iresvi.g.  lettiu-,- 
leaves  or  cel«ry  tops.  Wash  well  the  sweetbreads;  cover  -.vith 
boiling  „•;,,,.,.  ;lll,|  sin;lll(>r  for  !>(»  n,im,tes.  Drain  and  eor«r 

Aromatic  Pickling  Spices,  25c  per  box— Kutner-Qoidstein  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  43 


with  cold  water.  As  soon  as  cold  enough  to  handle,  remove 
all  skin  and  cut  in  "pieces  with  silver  knife.  Mix  the  sweet- 
breads with  the  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  celery 
tops. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

'Four  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoon ful  sugar,  one 
lablespoonful  flour,  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  half 
cup  vinegar,  three  eggs,  one  large  teaspoo?vful  mustard,  a  lit- 
tle cayenne  pepper.  First  melt  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  florr 
and  stir  until  smooth:  then  add  milk  and  stir  until  it  begins 
t.o  .boil.  Place  sauce  pan  in  a  larger  one  filled  with  water, 
let  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  so  it  will  not  get 
lumpy.  Beat  eggs  ligl  t,  and  add  to  them  the  salt,  peppc.-, 
sugar  and  mustard  which  has  lieen  well  mixed,  dry.  Add  vin- 
egar, mix  thoroughly,  add  to  boiling  mixture,  stir  until  thick 
as  custard;  strain.  "When  cool,  bottle.  When  used,  thin  w'th 
whipped  cream. 

MRS.  1).   R,   CAMEROr. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

(i  large  potatoes,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  2  cups  chopped  celery, 
2  medium  sized  cucumbers,  and  a  little  onion.  Boil  potatoes, 
let  get  cold,  cut  in  rinall  pieces;  cut  the  eggs  up  fine;  mix  all 
the  ingredients  together  and  salt  a  little.  When  I  cannot  get 
celery  I  use  a  little  celery  seed.  SALAD  i)HKSSJXG — Yolks 
of  four  eggs,  one  sinnl!  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard.  14  of  '•* 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  good  teaspoon  of  sugar,  2-3  cup  of  goo  1 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  svveet  milk.  Mix 
mustard,  sugar,  flour,  salt,  all  together  to  a  smooth  paste;  add 
vinegar,  spoonful  at  a  time,  and  then  the  milk  in  --aine  manner. 

THIS  BOOK  WAS  PRINTED  AND  BOUND  INTHE 


Department 
OF   THE    HAINFORD    DAILY  JOURNAL 


44  FAVORITE  EECIPES. 

J'ut  on  stove  and  cook  until  it  comes  to  M  boil;  add  butter 
or  olive  oil.  Before  you  mix  it  with  your  salad  add  one  cup 
of  good  sweet  cream. 

MKS.    SAD1K    \\TLSOX. 

CrEEEN  PEA  SALAD. 

Din-  :i  cupful  of  e.oM  veal  or  chic-ken,  and  place  on  :i  he«l  ut' 
lettuce.  Cover  with -{wo  eupsful  peas,  drained  well  from  the 
liquor.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  French  dressing,  seasoned  wltn 
mustard  and  mint  leave. 

•LUOlE  roi.TXKi;. 

OLIVE  AND  EGG  SALAD. 

Remove  shells  from  the  number  of  hard  boiled  eggs  desin.l, 
and  beginning  at  the  sinall  end' cut  the  whites  almost  to  the 
base  into  fifths,  lengthwise,  removing  the  yolks.  Ti-rn  back 
the  petals  thus  formed  fo  that  they  will  curl  prettilv'and  tint 
them  a  delicate  pink  with  beet  juice.  Mash  the  yolks  1.->  a 
soft  cream;  add  chopped  olives  (half  cupful  to  half  doz.  egg>-  ) 
and  a  teaspoon  paprika.  Mold  again  into  balls;  return  to  Mu- 
tinied petals;  prick  with  a  fork  to  roughen  the  surface.  n.'l 
place  on  each  a  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise.  Set  rach  in  a  ne<: 
of  crisp  lettuce. 

LU(5t?r     <   ,-T.VKR. 
CHICKEN  SALAD  WITH  CHEESE. 

Kul)  the  yolks  of  r'ire.e  hard  boiled  eggs  to  :i  smooth  pasi  •. 
Mix  in  very  slowly  iv.o  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  stirring  wi'h 
a  fork  all  the  time.'  Add  a  tablespoonful  mustard,  half  spoon- 
ful cayenne,  half  teaspoonful  salt  and  two.  "lablespoonfiils 
vinegar.  When  thoroughly  mixed.  one  and  one  half  eupfl 
-rated  cheese.  Mix  -.\iili  the.  salad  a  cupful  cold  chicken  cvi'  ir 
small  dice.  Line  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  pile  d  i.  i.-n 
etc.,  in  the  middle,  garnish  with  little  pieces  celery  and 
whites  of  fjrjjs  sliced  in  lings. 

CHEESE  FINGERS. 

Chop  one  tablespoonl  id  butter  into  one  ci;p  flour,  and  whrii 
line  as  meal  mix  in  one-third  c,-p  grated  eh»e;c,  a  little  salt.  .1 
sprinkling  cayenne  and  one-half  leaspooiiful  baking  powder, 
Mix  with  from  one-third  to  one-half  cup  water,  as  for  biscuit. 
I.'oll  thin,  cut  in  sti-'ps  ,,r  any  fancy  shapes  and  bake  a  pal- 
brown  in  moderate  (.Ven,  From  ten  t(.  fifteen  miriiiTes  \\ili 
j.rr>b;il,ly  be  l.mg  eiioi^.h.  These  are  easier  made  Thau  cheese 
fingers.  ;;nd  are  very  i.ice  to  serve  warm  for  luncheon  or  with 

salad. 

Pastry  Spices,  20c  per  box_Kutner-Goldstein  Go. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


45 


J 


46  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


f 

[ffl 
I— 


#~***L 
<K^-  ^W^r  A^*# 


V     » 


FAVORITE  &ECIPES. 


ZxCxd 


u-5 


^^ 

i/^oc    £^>^C  sf  tfff^t^*^ 

otin^  trl  ^/r^ed^  e—^t 

/          Ja  *^ 

\s^n    &  lrt^^C\     A^e  ^^  *4 '  frbtn^, 

^2^^^^V/^^  M 

fa^rlvtfi   f^tt^yL   4^_A/-< 


48 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES  49 


Pickles 


MUSTARD    DRESSING. 

Three  pints  vinegar,  one  and  one-half  caps  s,,  .,.,,-  ,,m..j,Hr 
cup  flour,  one-half  ,,om,,l  mustard.  Put  mustard  and  su-ai- 
together  with  a  Jittl-  vinegar;  Mir  till  smooth.  |eat  the  thro- 
I'mts  ot  vinegar  to  a  boiling  tK>int  ;tll,i  ,,0!  r  „,,.,.  th|1  tfl 
:l  smooth.  Cse  for  pickle-string  bqanl  small  cucum.' 
bers,  cauliflower,  small  unions,  or  anything  desired  -cut  in 
small  pieces.  When  cool  pour  dressing  over  me  pickle  —.1 
seal  in  bottles  or  jars. 

Mi;s.  K.  \VAi'i  i-; 
FRENCH  MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

4  quarts  .-reen  tomatoes  (chopped),  1  quart  small  eucumherH 
I  quart  small  onions,  1  qnart  cauliilower.  three  ,,,-,.,,;  peppers- 

t  all  stand  in  weak  brine  twenrWour  1,,-urs;  ,-ook  fifteen 
minutes,  then  drain.  Dressing  for  same—  Three  cups  ,,f  sugar 
(whit»),  one  cup  of  fl,,,.r.  six  tabloRpo..nfiils  mustard  one  t.-.Me 
sp<M)n  TUIIH  •.•„•  p,,w«ler,  two  qnaits  vinegar,  one  mmrt  wile- 
Let  vinegar  and  water  ,-ome  to  „  boil;  stir  hi  tin-  'dressr  ••  • 
cook  th.ck  like  custard;  put  in  the  pickle  a  few  minutes 

MKS.   Tr.Ymi-:    \\-o!,'s\Vlc'C. 
CHOW  CHOW. 

<'liop  one  peck  «m-,i  tomatoes,  i,  peck  ripe  toniatoea  sit 
-nions.  :;  small  heads  cabbbage,  1  doz.  greei,  peppersj  seeds  re- 

lOVed;  .t  red  peppers;  see.ls  remove.!;  sprink'--  wit^  salt  Mild 
put  in  :-,  coarse  !;;,,«;  drain  over  night.  In  ;h,  morr&ng  pat  in 
;'  porcelain  lined  kettle,  with  two  pornds  brown  sugar,'  '..  tea- 

'•up  -rated  horse  radish.  1  tahlespoonful  ewli  £TOun<l  black  ,„.,,- 
Per  and  mustard,  whole  white  mustard  seed,  inacc  ,•  nd  eelerv 
iee/1;  cover  with  vinegM  and  boil  till  dear.  S,,,l  up  in  jar  ...  ' 

Mb's.   AI.ICK    P 


PEACH    PICKLES. 

~    pounds    peaches.    :!    pounds   su-ar.    1    pint    of    •  ine«*ar     }    «.,M, 

f  water;    spice   to   taste.        Moil    SUK:II,   vj,,,.^,,,      £at;      ;ni;; 

:    drop    peaches    into    syrup    and    c,,ok     until     tender-     lifi 

out    carefully    an.!    boil    syrup    about    a    half    hour    or  'until 

«eh.       Place   peaches   in   sym,.   until    ,t    boila   m>    w!,,.-i 

take   from    lire   and   seal    in   ^lass    jars. 

MI{*.  .ICiM)  >MJTH. 
Genuine  New  Orleans  Molasses,  75c  gallota_^At 


60  FAVOEITE  RECIPES 


CHOW  CHOW. 

Forty  pounds  green  tomatoes,  one  doz.  onion?:,  vliree  uiediu  i 
eabbage  heads,  two  dozen  appl.M.  one-half  dozen  j'leeii  peepers, 
one  dozen  red  peppers;  sprinkle  cayenne  and  blar-V  pepper  ovc.  : 
chop  nil  fine  and  sprinkle  in  salt  (not  too  nui'-li):  put  in  sack 
to  drain  over  niglit.  Then  heat  one-half  gallon  good  vin«'<_:i;- 
and  one-half  cupful  sugar;  pour  in  ingredient:*,  let  come  to  :i 
boil.  Seal  while  hot.  Very  nice. 

MRS.  JO!-:    !,I  I >I  >LK 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

One  peek  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled;  ten  or  t welv  nig  onions, 
six^r  eight  green  peppers,  three  re  I  peppers,  three  good-sized 
apple*,  one  lemon,  all  chopped  fine;  one  tablfispoonful  s-ilt.  two 
teaspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  Mark  ]>epper,  DIM- 
tvaspoont'ul  luystard;  <  ne  teaspoont'r.l  ea«-h.  cinnamon,  alls|>:.  . 
vlnves;  eight  t-upfuls  hrown  sugar,  two  quarts  good  vi 
<"ook  well. 

MRS.  .iOK.    MII)I»f.E. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES. 

Cut  the  lemon,  in  oblong  pieces,  remove  the  rind  mid  soft  part 
near  the  seed.  Soak  o^er  night  in  Meak  alum  water,  to  which 
hsis  1  ecu  added  a  tablespoonful  of  salt:  sin:-nei  in  w--ak  \  inc^ 
gar  until  tender;  then  drain  well.  Mak*«  a  sy*i-up  in  the  pro- 
portion of  1  pint  of  vinegar,  .'!  pounds  of  sugar  to  7  poiui.N  <  t 
fruit;  two  sticks  cinnamon,  1  teaspomiful  wide  cloves. 
syrup  come  to  the  1  oil;  add  the  melons;  when  heated  through 
se.-d  in  cans.  ., 

MRS.  K,  T. 


Gurnee  Planing  Mill 

B.  S.  GURNEE,  PROP'R. 

Mantels,    Grilles,    Dardwood    floors 
Store  and  Saloon  fixtures,  Stairs,  Gtc. 

KINDLING  AND  COAL  ROLLED  BARLEY 

HANKOUI).   CAL. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES  51 


pickles 

737 

4 


V 

^G2-^£-^£y 

C^~/-/rX-^c  ) 

:M*CT 


52 


FAVORITE 


n    I^M^t 

A 


y      ^VH^Vt^t^l^vC     I>^J\  t 


FA.ViOS.ITE  RECIPES. 


53 


y 

XV      ^>        ^X^-^*-^x' 

i      '  ^ 


34 


FAVOUITE  RECIPES. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  55 


puddings 


GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

1  cup  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  leup  raisins,  '2  cups  graham  Hour, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  spices.  Steam  two  hours. 

MRS.  W.    V.  BUCK  i\  PR. 
SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Peel  and  parboil  :>  large  potatoes;  when  ccld,  grate  fine 
Cream  together  i/.  cuj)  each  of  butt  or  and  sugar;  beat  into 
this  the  whipped  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  cup  of  rich  milk,  the  grated 
potato,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  nutmeg, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and  a  wine  £>lass  of 
brandy.  Beat  hard  and  bake  in  a  deep,  greased  pudding,  dish. 
Serve  hot  with  brandy  sauce.  This  is  a  delirious  dessert. 

MRS.  JOE    RIDDLE. 
NUT  PUDDING. 

Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs.  To  the 
yolks  add  1%  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  and  to  the  beaten 
whites  add  three  cups  of  finely  chopped  nuts.  MIK  all  to- 
gether lightly  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Last  of  all, 
nift  in  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  well  mixed  witu  :i 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Bake  quickly  in  jelly  cake  tins  and 
put  together  with  whipped  cream.  This  will  serve  ten  persons. 

LU(.Y    CORTMW. 
SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet,  clioppi'd  iine;  3  cup  Molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
31/-;  cups  flour,  1  c.up  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  soda.  Steam  four 
hours.  Sauce  for  same— One  cup  sugar,  half  .-;ip  butter,  1 

PHOTOGRAPHS 

60  to  po well's 

dp-to~Datc«lorh  &  Latest  Hrtietk  JSovelties 

Sharpies  Block,  Han  ford 


53  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


egg,  the  juice  and  grate-l  rind  of  1  large     oran-;.  ,  or  two  sin.' 1 1 
to   ;i    boil.        Serve   hot. 

MKS.  L.  E.  .IOXKS. 
ORANGE  PUDDING. 

1  cup  sugar,  H  cup  rolled  crackers,  piece  of  butter  size  of  AH 
egg,  thejuice  and  grated  rind  of  1  large  orange,  or  two  small 
ones;  1  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  "like  "eustar'd.  Serve  CO'M; 
plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  r.KED  V.  DKWKY. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  'melt  'half  cup  sugar  till  a 
light  brown;  when  melted  add  ^4  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water;  allow  the  mixture  to  hoil  for  a  moment  and  add  it  10 
the  milk;  take  from  the  stove  and  add  a  tea  spoonful  vanilla; 
when  cool,  not  cold,  stir  in  hastily  4  eggs  thoroughly  beatev, 
with  '2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  pour  all  into  a  mould;  stair  I 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  until  .  cily  like;  put  aside 
to  cool.  Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

LIT.  :  OORTNER. 
SAUCE  I  OR  HOT  PUDDINGS. 

('ream  half  cup  butter,  I1/-:  cups  st-^ar  tog.-iner;  then  stir  in 
white  of  one  well  beaten  egir;  flavor  to  tas'e. 

MISS  AX<JIK   SAXHORN,  Lemoore. 
CARROT  PUDDING. 

1  cup  grated  carrots,  1  cup  grated  potatoes,  1  cap  /lour.  1  v,i|> 
of  sugar,  1o  cr.p  of  raisins;  cloves,  cinnajiion,  Miimeg,  V<,  spoo-i- 
ful  each;  1  teaspoon  soda.  Put  all  the  ingredients  together, 
leaving  the  "rating  of  potatoes  until  the  last;  to  this  add  soda 
and  pinch  of  salt;  beat  thoroughly  and  steam  two  hours  in 
.">  pound  lard  bucket. 

MRS.  AXDY   lirCKXKR.   Lemoorc. 


A  MODEL  DPLKi  STORI! 

Conducted  OR  a  Modern  System 

COUSINS  &  MOWLAM!) 

prescription  Druggists 

M  ANPORO.  CAL. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  57 

ENGLISH  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

One  pound  currants;  one  pouinl  seeded  I'aisins;  one  pound 
sugar;  one  pouinl  suer  ;  Two  pounds  <,  aTi'd  or  i-oaked  bread:  six 
«ggs;  one-half  Teaspoon  soda;  1\vo  Teaspoons  salt;  one  gratcu 
nutmeg.  Crumb  the  s'.-ft  |>;irT  of  Th  •  Itroail  first;  soak  The  crust 
in  boiling  milk.  P>eaT  The  eggs  and  put  all  together;  mix  thor- 
oughly with  The  hands.  '1'ake  a  SCHISM  e  piece  of  cotton  cloth,  lay 
on  a  cup;  ]>nt  The  pudding  into  the  doth  and  tie  down  closr>. 
Put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  five  hours.  As  it  boils  'iway  add 
more  \vaTer. 

M.RS.  M.  L.  ]rKCK. 
PLUM  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  su^ar;  one  cup  raisins;  one  cup  currants;  one 
cup  suet;  one  cup  bread  crumbs;  >ne  cup  flour;  one  cup  sweet 
milk;  one-half  -up  molasses;  one-half  cup  citron;  four  cg^s, 
well  beaten;  one  tablespoonful  butter;  one  teaspoonful  each 
cinnamon,  allspice,  nntiveg  and  cloves,  Two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla; 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  po\viler;  a  ]iindi  of  sail.  Boil  four 
hours.  Sauce  —  1  cup  si!f_>'ar  and  neai'iy  one  cup  butter  beat  to  a 
i-reain.  1'ut  one  eyy  in  a  cup;  Iteat  'veil  <inii  fill  cup  with  cold 
water;  then  pour  it  inlo  sugar  and  butter.  PuT  on  stove  a-i  I 
•stir  constantly;  let  -boil  just  a  little  .viiile.  Flavor  with  juice. 
of  a  lemon.  Splendid. 

MRS.    I.A.N'DIS. 
LEMON  PUDDING. 

Yolks  of  live  e^s  beat  in  ',4  jio.ind  of  powdered  sugar  i'or 
half  an  hour  steadily  Take  '  ._.  box  -^ehi'iiiie  (Knox)  dissd  \-(-<! 
in  water  (about  '•»  cup);  one  or  Two  lesnotis.  according  to  sour- 
ness desired.  Heat  whites  still'  and  add  carefully.  Put  in 
mold  and  keep  in  cool  place. 

MRS.    F.   .!.    \y.\LKKK. 


Kings  Co.  Cleaning  &<*  Dye  Works 

ALL  KL\DS  Or 

G^R^ENTS  CLEWED.  WE5SED,  KILPAIRE'D 

In  first-class  style,  by  an  expert  eloaner  and   dyer. 
Men's  Hats  cleaned,  trimmed  and  rebloeked  ........... 

Abbott    Building.    Seventh    St..    Hanford.    two   d(ioi-s    east    of 
Telephone  <  )trice. 

Telephone  Red  23.  B.  K.  Peterson.  Proprietor 


58  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  one  hour  ni  warm  water;  add  <>no 
and  ^he-half  cups  of  brown  sugar;  one  quart  of  hot  v>ater. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  about  one  hour.  Serve,  .  >1<! 
with  whipped  cream. 

r/riiEL  FRKUMAX. 

RAISIN  PUFF  PUDDING. 

Two  eggs;  half  cup  butter;  two  tablespoons  sugar;  one  cup 
sweet  milk;  two  cups  flour;  one  cup  seeded  raisins  or  any  kin  I 
of  fruit  preferred;  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  .Makes  ten 
eups.  Steam  half  hour.  Serve  with  cream  or  sauce. 

MBS.   XKWPOKY. 
STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light;  add  gradually  on<> 
cup  of  sugar  and  beat  until  light;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  milk;  one  or.nce  if  chocolate  (melted  over  hot  water). 
Mix  thoroughly.  Add  one  cup  of  flour  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Beat  the  white  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and  add  qv-'ckly 
to  the  pudding,  with  two  teaspoons  of  l.ak'ng  powder.  Pnt 
large  spoonful  in  cups  and  steam  20  mi  nines.  Served  with 
sauce  made  of  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cru  l.utter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  gradually  one-half  cup  oi' 
milk.  Stir  all  the  time.  Place  Vowl  in  f.nsm  of  hot  water  and 
stir  sauce  until  smooth  and  cream"  no  longer.  Do  not  let  boil. 

KTHEL   FREEMAN. 
ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One-half  poi.ml  of  bread  crumbs,  fine;  one-half  pound  ilor.r; 
one  ]  ound  1  eef  suet  ( i-opped  fine;  one  pound  currants,  wash  •  1 
and  dried;  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins,  Chopped:  one 
pound  of  pulverized  sugar;  half  pound  candie.l  perl,  cut  flno; 
one-fourth  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped;  one  teaspoon 
ginger;  half  teaspoon  mixed  spices;  one  teaspoon  salt;  six  e.^gs, 
well  lealen:  two  lemons,  juice  ai.d  rind;  two  wine  glass's 
French  brandy;  half  pint  milk.  First  prepare  everything;  next 

6.  OuCommcn 


JevVeler  and 
Optician  f/anford,  Cat. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  .i<j 

mix  Hour  and  cvuml;s,  then  suet;  r.ext  fruits,  sugar,  nuts  ami 
spice.  Stir  again:  add  eggs,  milk,  brandy  and  lemon  juice  in 
the  order  named,  Seating  with  a  s:Iver  fork.  It  should  be 
pretty  soft.  Have  ready  buttered  pudding  molds  with  covers. 
Tie  a  doth  over  tightly  and  boil  eight  hours.  Makes  t\vo  pud- 
dings. \\'lien  ready  to  use  them  boil  two  I'-ours  more. 

MRS.  HOE  LOCK. 
GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

< >ue-half  cup  of  molasses;  V-'i  cup  of  butter;  ^  cup  of  sv\ei-t 
milk;  1  '  •_•  cups  of  graham  flour;  '/>  cup  of  laisins;  !/:>  cup  of 

currants;    1    egg;    1    teas] nful      soda;    salt    -iiid    spice   to     t;',ste. 

Steam   li'L>    hours.      Serve   with    hard    and    bra:!<ly   sauce. 

M.  IRENE  DEWKV. 

GINGER  PUDDING. 

One  egg ;  1  cup  molasses;  '/•>  cuj)  butter,  !/L>  cup  raisins 
(seeiled):  ! L.  cuji  liot  viiter;  1  teaspoon  ginger;  1  teaspoon  soda; 
23/4  cups  flour.  Stir  like  cake  do'igh.  Steam  in  baking  powder 
cans  an  hour. 

SUE  DODGE  BRYAN,   Colegrove. 
SPONGE  PUDDING. 

Two  ounces  butter;  '2  ounces  sugar;  '1  oir-ices  flour;  1  [lint 
milk;  '.1  f'ggs,  yolks  aii'i  whites  be:it'in  se]);«v.itely.  Boil  miik, 
stir  in  flour  (having  previously  mixed  it  with  a  little  cold  milk 
as  you  do  corn  starch);  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  leaving 
whites  of  eggs  til!  last.  1'our  into  buttered  dish,  sei  ;n  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  bake  rather  slowly.  Serv.^  at  once. 

SATCK  FOR  sr<)X(iE  PUDDING— Vt  cup  butter,  "v-as'.'.rod 
sjiaringly;  ' •.  cup  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream;  j  well  beaten  "egg 
Set  in  double  boiler;  flavor  with  either  sherry  wine  or  brandy 
before  serving. 

MRS.  L.  K.  FKLTCiV. 


R.  G-. 

Agent  For 

Best's  Crude  Oil  6ngines 

Hlso  Centrifugal  pumps 


118-21  N.  IrwinSt,  XV  Uanford.  Cal 


60  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


APPPLE  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  sliced  apples  :i.n-l   pour 
top  the  following  batter:      1    tablespoon   in.Her,    '•_•      -ni1   -'-:"• 
1  egg,  Vj  <•"!'  '"i'k.  1  cup  flour.  1   teaspoon  b:ikiug  i»owder.  I'.akc 
slowly.     Servo  with  cream  and  sugar  or  air.    sauce. 

MRS.  JOH.J  NKwmirr. 

PRUNE  PUDE1NG. 

One  pound  prunes  (ruby  preferre  i ; ;  whites  or  4  eggs;  1  cup 
sugar.  Stew  prunes  till  tender,  remove  pits  and  chop;  beat 
eggs;  add  sugar;  mix  all  together  and  bake  20  minn;.-.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  box  Knox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  quart  of  milk.  S-; 
it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  gradually  heat  t.mil  the  gelat-iu-  is 
thoroughly  dissolved.  Use  one  drawer  of  su-awberrie:--.  reserv- 
ing the  best  for  a  garnish.  Strain  tin  rest  through  a  cloth;  ad-.i 
to  the  milk  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Set  away  in  a  mould  to  <-<,ol. 
When  it  begins  to  set  stir  in  one  cup  of  whipped  cream.  \\  ken 
stiff,  turn  on  a  platter,  put  whipped  cream  around  and  drop 
the  large  berries  around. 

ANNA    DOt-'KlN's. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING 

Heat  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  to  boiling;  stir  in  care- 
fully six  tablespoonfuls  of  coinmeal  and  one  of  Hour.  Let  I 
stand  on  the  stove  for  some  time,  stirring  <.tten.  Add  onc-hHf 
cupful  butter,  one-fourth  cupful  molass-'s  and  three-fourths 
cupful  of  sugar.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  add  one  pint  of 
cold  milk.  When  cool,  add  three  beaten  e£gv.  Flavor  with  v.i- 
nilla  or  cinnamon  and  a  little  ginger.  l?ake  two  1  ours  in  mod<"-- 
ate  oven.  Serve  with  sauce. 

\i;;-s.  .iu»i>  SMITH. 

PLAIN  PUDDING. 

One-half  cupful  of  molasses;  one-half  ci-pful  S'Hii  creaiii; 
butter  size  of  an  egg  (melt  butter):  one  egg;  one  1  <--'^poonfu! 

;a  ilissolved  in  milk  and  molasses;  one  <  ;;pful  st<;a,'  i  raisins 
•nd  a  little  finely  cut  citron  if  desire  I.  Spices — n-j  teaspoonful 
each  iif  cinnamon  ;  n«:  nut  meg;  t'ii.ur  to  urike  stiti'  batt-'v. 
Steal  i  one  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with  sauce.  Tnis  same 
r>'<-'  .  \'sing  two-thirds  yraham  tlour  and  oMc-third  white  llr.ur, 

;kes  a  very  good  uraham  |)ud<ling.  which  sieam  two  and  ;uir- 
iiiilf  hours.  Serve  with  sauce. 

MRS.  Jl'DD   SMI  i  li 

New  York  Cider  Vinegar,  30c  Gallon — Kutner-GoirtscoJn  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


61 


puddings 


^       - 


31M/O 
k      !: 

^  * '  JP 


y^^t^t^r 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


/ 


h 


/  ' 


^-    $s&i~^t^!^_#&o 
.-.^       y 

/       1^<?.      ^2^-^^i-C 


64  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


'  '     C\  AS  ^  / 

y^lxu-c-£        >£«rz^c.       Gs^<~C\. 

^^^c       &^c~esf'~' 


'~' 


FAVORITE  RECIPES  65 


""#>#'*'    " 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Nine   lar-re   lemons,   juice  only;    1  L>   or   more      larye      apples:      .'! 
:]xnimls  raisins:  3  pounds  suet;  (>  pounds  sao.-ii-  i;  oui'.i  -es  c^nidied 
peel,     ('hop  nil   well   and   put   in  jars  for  use.  :iot  cooking  it. 

MRS.    F!i;.MM-;y. 
CHESS    CUSTARD    PIE. 

Yolks  of  six  eo<.s;  whites  of  two;  beat  very  HijMi!;  ;  il'i-i; 
add  one  and  one-lialf  t-nps  snyar;  two  ir.uudcd  tal>les|)Oons 
sifted  flour;  butter  tlie  si/e  of  two  cjj«'s;  (Savor  with  nutmeg. 
After  this  is  all  l:eaten  thoroughly  toyei  iu-r.  add  one-halt'  ('np 
sueet  milk.  Hake  slowly  in  rich  pastry.  I '.cat  whiles  of  four 
«'i^s  and  one  and  one-half  cups  su^ar  together  until  (|uite  stilV: 
spread  ovei1  tops  of  pies  and  In-own  nicely  in  a  slow  oven. 
Thin  will  make  two  pies. 

.MRS.    I.    15.   SKU-\ 

EXAMINER  PRIZE  RECIPE  FOR  MINCE  MEAT. 
Two  pounds  nice  nai>  l;ee!',  l:oi!ed,  and  "hopped  fine  wlicM 
colii;  one  pound  uiincio  l;eet'  suet;  five  pome's  juicy  apple-, 
pai-i-d  and  chopped;  two  pounds  seeded  rai-'ins;  two  pounds 
Hidtanas  (seedless  raisins);  two  pounds  dried  < -,:rrants;  '•_; 
pound  citron  (chopped):  three  ta  hlcspoonfuls  cinnamon;  two  of, 
mace  and  one  each  o!'  ;dlspice,  niit'iH^  and  tnhle  salt;  oiii'-h;  !i" 
gallon  sweet  cider:  lirandy  if  preferred.  Mince  meat  made  1>v 
tliis  recipe  will  keep  rill  spring. 

'MifS.   M.   L.  SHORT. 

TO  M    J .     V  IT  C  O  J  E  V  I  C  I  E 


FITLL.TJNK  OK  HOOKS  AND  STATION  KRV. 
MACA/IXHS  AND  1'KIMODU 'A  LS.  CKIAKS 
AND  TOBACCOS.  FRTITS.  NMTTS.  NOTIONS. 

Confectionery  and  Ice  Cream   ,*  8:9t  ancdc^ure8t  in 


•Phone  Red  I'll.  ,        llautoixl,  Cal. 


66  FAVORITE  RECIPES 

MOCK  MINCF,  PIE. 

.">  crackers,  '/•_•  cup  1 --utter,  1  VL-  flips  ot  sugar,  1^  cup  molas:»<M, 
V->  cup  of  vinegar,  juice  of  2  or  3  le'.nons  and  grated  rind  of  one, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinnn- 

mon,  V-  nutmeg. 

MRS.    I..   8.   FISH. 

CREAM  PJCE. 

1  pint  milk,  1  cup  su^ar,  scant  luilf  cup  flour,  t  eggs.  Let 
milk  come  to  a  boil;  l-u.t  yolks  and  ;lour  with  a  little  cold  milk; 
add  boiling  milk;  let  boil  till  it  thickens;  flavor.  Bake  crust 
and  pour  mixture  In  ;  n«l  put  whites  (sweetened  and  flavored) 
rn  top  and  brown. 

LENA  ARMSTRONG. 
LEMON  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons,  flour  enough  to  make  of  proper  consistency,  2  egg*, 
1  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  I'.oil  sugar  •<  ml  water  an  I 
grated  rind  of  lemon  and  butter  th'ee  or  four  minutes;  add 
thickening  and  before  removing  from  stove  add  vnbeaten  yolks 
of  eggs;  stir  well.  'When  cool,  add  ,iuice  of  lemons,  and  strain. 
Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue. 

MRS.   A.   E.   1IORLOCK 


THE  NEW  YORK  STORE 

Tailor-Made  Suits 


Tailor-Mode 
Jackets  and 

UTEST  NEW  YORK  GOODS  SI   «IJ.  TIMES 

'•%%  ^&^3^ 

The  Ne\x?  York  Store 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  67 

PIE  CRUST. 

3.  cups  flour,  1  cup  li.vd,  1  teaspoont'ul  salt;  rub  Hour,  salt  and 
Tard  together.  Use  i<-c  water  to  i>;a'<e  dough.  Makes  2  pies. 

MRS.  F.  V.  DEWEY. 

FILLING  FOR   LEMON  PIE. 

3  eggs  and  1  lemon.  Use  cue  whole  egg  and  two  yolks;  one 
cii)i  sugar,  one  cup  v\;\'er.  one  cup  stale  bread  crumbs;  bent 
w/iites  for  top;  sweefr  i  and  flavor  1o  taste. 

MHS.   JOINKR. 
CURRANT  PIE. 

Thre-.'-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  scant  tablespoon  flour, 
three  tablespoonfuls  water;  mix  into  paste.  Cup  fresh  cur- 
rants; line  pie  tin  will:  crust  and  bake  before  filling.  Mix 
sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs'  and  flour  together;  rhen  add  water; 
then  fruit.  Boil  till  thick,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from 
burning.  Fill  crust;  add  whit  >>.  well  be;i1en.  to  top  and 
slightlv  sweetened.  hrown  in  oven. 

MRS.  T.KSLIK  SMITH,  Armona. 

BAKERS'  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Heal  the  yolks  of  ',,  eggs  to  a  cream;  stir  thoroughly  1  table- 
spoonful  sifted  flour  nr.i.  3  of  sugar;  add  to  it  th.>  beaten  yolks, 
a  little  \unilla  and  a  little  nutmeg;  last  a  pint  of  scalded  milk 
and  spoonful  melted  1  ulter;  turn  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with  paste, 
and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  for  top;  add  3  teaspoonfuls  siigav. 
When  pie  is  done,  put  on  top. 

MUS.    VAX    YALKKXBKRG. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

1'  eggs  beaten  sep;i.ralely,  •'.',  cup  sii-ar,  ^  tabl-.-.^.oonf uls  flour, 
1  quart  milk,  cinnamon  ;md  nutmeg.  Hake  i>ne  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  MISS  LEMON. 


Y.  H.  BOUDREAU 

Mcintorcl,  Col. 
practical  Cdatchmaker 


jeweler  and  Stationer 


68  FAVORITE  RECIPES, 

GRATED  APPLE  PIE. 

(Jrate.  apples.  eH'KT  sweet  or  M>I,I  •  sweet-'ii  !o  laste  :uH 
bake  immediately  in  n;nlor  crust,  with  liits  of  butter  and  spri'iV 
ling  of  cinnajnon  on  lop. 

MKS.  X.  ?\  DL'XCAX. 
TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  <-\ij)  Imlter  creamed  toge'  iu-r;  add  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  one  crust.  Cover  Avith  j  an  while  ba'c- 
iuy.  Heat  whites,  toiu  tablespoonfuls  snjjnr  for  ii»erinjji»o. 
M;ikcs  t  \\  (i  pics. 

MRS.  JO  i"     P.I  Dl  )MO. 
LEMON  j?ra. 

Juice  ;mil  grated  lin  i  of  one  lar^e  lemon;  i  cup  sugar,  2 
tablespoonftils  coru  sui'rcli,  stirred-  in  jnire:  1  cup  })oilin.j 
water,  poured  over  mixture  slowly  :-:d  cook  until  clear.  Thon 
add  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  well  beaten;  fill  the  shells,  and  cover 
with  a  meringue  of  white,  of  egg  and  sugar,  and  return  to  oven 
for  a  few  minutes. 

LILLTA  BUKK-KU, 
CREAM  PIE. 

Have  a  rich  under  (rust  nady;  ti;en  sprinkle  with  one  CMIJV 
sugar  mixed  with  1  teaspoon  flour  j.rnl  bits  of  '>.itter;  then  add 
1  cup  cream,  either  socr  or  sweet;  f'fivoring  if  desired. 

MRS.    LAN-MS. 


The  Nevtf  York  Store 

Laces  Ribbons  potions 

KID  GLOVES,  STANDARD  PATTERNS 


Kabo  -Corsets 

Shoes 

Carpets 

Ruys 

(Mattings 

The  New  York  Store 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  69 


pies 

"T*~~ 

&*-  ' 

. 

% 


. 


A/0    /  ^^vCo     &^*<*^L 


/o 

W^z^ 


70  FAVOBITE  KECIPES. 


C-H-y-isVi^  t 

^ ;        d 


, 

;,,     L^U*>(* 

* 

-•/  X-^^X_ 

^fcU-i 

G£< 


/.  < 

I 

s 

y     <J^t^/ 


fr^fc 

y-   ^    ^J/^e  • 

v 


/ 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  71 


72 


FAVORITE  RECIPES. 


^ 


V 


/    /v 


:  K. 


FAVOKITE  RECIPES.  73 


Cafcce 


BREAD   CAKE. 

1  cup  raised  dough,  !..  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar.  2  eggs, 
2  sticks  of  grated  chocolate,  V--  toaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon  each.  '•_.  teaspoonful  of  soda;  no  milk  or  water; 
flour  enough  to  make  <|uite  stiff. 

MBS.  I).  S.  FISH. 
WHITE  CAKE. 

I'L.  cups  sujjar,  --.'•  cup  butter.  1  cup  milk,  whites  of  4  eggs, 
-  <-ofl'ee  cups  Hour.  L'  teaspoons  linking  powder;  flavor  with 
•vanilla. 

MRS.  ,J.  W.  BABBOUB. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

T  cup  Nii^ar.  'L.  cup  butter  )>eat  with  sugar  to  a  cream;  '_• 
cup  s\vri'i  milk,  \vhitcs  ot'  1  eyrjis  lieateTi  to  a  liard  foam;  2 
ni|»s  sit'teil  Hour.  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  flavor  to 
taste.  Frosting — in  tablespoonf uls  of  s\)g;ir.  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  water;  boil  until  little  stringy;  cool  a  little  and  add  whHesr 
<»f  l!  well  beaten  egiis;  beat  until  cool,  and  spread  on  cake. 

'      MRS.  IX  S.    FISH. 
PLUM  CAKE. 

1  pound  granulated  sugar,  'L.  pound  butter.  Stir  these  well 
together.  Add  .">  eyys  well  lieaten,  '2  wine  glasses  sour  cream, 
I'  wine  j;lass  brandy,  1  wine  glass  molasses,  1  pound  of  floi;r 
and  as  much  soda,  as  will  lay  on  end  of  knife :  1  nutmeg,  1' 
dessert  spoons  cinnamon.  -  pounds  raisins,  stoned  and  cut;  1 

They  Use  No  Other 


WE  RECOMMEND  "CREAM  OF  WHEAT"  FLOUB, 
MADE  BY  THE  HANFORD  FLOUR  MILL,  H.  GK  LACEY  & 
CO.,  PROPRIETORS,  FOR  CAKES,  BREAD  AND  PASTRY. 
WE  USE  NO  OTHER. 

MRS.  J.  H.  DOPKINS. 

MRS   S.   L.   LANDIS. 


74  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

pound  currants.  %  pound  citron  or  orange  peel;  1 
pound  chopped  walnuts,  %  cup  orange  mnrmalade.  Put  a 
little  of  the  flour  with  the  fruit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
I1!1  hours. 

MISS  DOPKlNs. 
DEVIL   CAKE. 

L!  cups  brown  sugar,  */>  cup  butter  (beaten  to  a  cream);  2 
eggs  (well  beaten),  V>  cup  sour  milk  (or  cream).  Mix  ^ 
cup  boiling  water,  in  which  dissolve  I  rounded  teaspoon  soda.; 
stir  and  pour  over  2  oz.  Baker's  grated  unsweetened  chocolate; 
mix  well,  then  pour  into  cake  mixture.  Add  2  teaspoons 
vanilla,  2  cups  of  flour  (after  sifting).  Grease  pans  well  and 
pprinkle  with  flour.  Filling — 1%  cups  brown  sugar,  3  table- 
Bpoons  water;  boil  until  it  threads;  add  piece  of  butter,  pour 
into  beaten  white  and  add  small  -cup  grated  chocolate,  and 
fitir. 

•  MRS.  LESLIE  SMITH.  Armona. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

-  flips  sugar.  1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour,  S  eggs  (whites  only), 
L  level  teaspooufuls  baking  powder,  1U.  pound  finely  chopped 


A  Bad  Cooking  Range 

Has  brought  "about  more  domestic  trouble 
than  incompatibility  of  religion.     :     :     : 


Cde  Hre  flgents  for 

"Universal"  Stoves  and  Ranges 

The  Best  on  Earth 
1  :  VERY  OTSTE  OUARAXT3  ;  I  ) 


Arthur  E.  Horlock  Co. 


HANFolM).  CAL. 


FAVOBITE  RECIPES.  75 

blanched  almonds,  1  cup  grated  e.ocoanut,  %  pound  finely  cut 
citron,  ^  glass  white  wine,  tablespoonftil  rose  water.  Bake 
about  3  hour. 

MRS.  A.  E.  HORLOOK. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

i!  cups  sugar,  1  nip  butter,  1  cup  sweet  niilk,  3  cups  flour,  L' 
level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  eight  eggs. 

MRS.  VILLA  BLAKELY. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

-  cups  sugar,  :ti  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  li  cups  flour, 
.';  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
Frosting — Whites  of  :2  eggs,  18  teaspoonfnls  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon.  Th;s,  without  the  cinnamon,  makes  a 
good  plain  cake. 

MRS.   J.   COOPER. 

MOCHA   FILLING   FOR   CAKE, 

1  cup  sweet  butter.  '.>  cup  pulverized  sugar  creamed  to- 
ggther;  and.  drop  by  drop  at  a  time,  add  4  tablespoons  of 
strong  coffee.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  D.  H.  CAMERON. 

ALMOND  FILLING  FOR  CAKE 

'•'•  eggs,  1  pint  sweet  cream,  '^  scant  cup  sugar.  '2  tablespoo.'i- 
fuls  flour,  'o  pound  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine.  Cook 
iu  double  1, oiler:  flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.   D.  R.  CAMERON. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup 
(•'iris  siarch.  two  <-ups  *ifte<;  (lour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  whites  of  six  eggs;  flavor.  Icing — Hoil  two  cups  of 
sugar  in  a  little  water  until  it  strings  from  The  spoon;  pour 


practical   Rorseeboer 


HAST  END  SEVENTH  ST.  HAN  FORD.  CAL 


76  FAVORITE  RECIPES 


this  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites  of  three  oggs;  to  half  of 
lliis  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  pounded  Hanehed  alnioii'!-: 
i<-c  tlie  cake  with  the  other  half. 

MRS.  K.  A.  TrTTLK. 
DATE  CAKE. 

12  egjjs.  \vhites  and  yolks  beateu  sepavatelv;  i.j  pom.  i 
chopped  dates.  1  ]>ound  sugar,  ID  square  soda  crackers,  (if 
small,  12);  1  teaspooiiful  cinnamon  and  allspice;  2  07..  choco- 
late, grated;  1  lemoii 's  juice  and  grated  rind.  Mix  yolks  and 
sugar  and  beat  to  a  cream;  add  spices,  lemon,  chocolate, 
dates  and  crackers,  which  have  been  rolled  or  ground  fine; 
lastly  put  in  the  well  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  an  nnbutterod. 
pan  in  rather  quick  oven  for  40  minutes  or  longer.  Follow 
directions  carefully. 

MRS.  JOE.   BIDDLE. 
WHITE  CAKE. 

Cream  one  half  er.p  butter  and  one  and  one  half  cups  sugar, 
gradually  beating  all  the  while  until  creamed;  add  three-fourths 
flip  milk  and  two  cups  tlour;  beat  until  smooth;  beat  whites  <-f 
four  eggs  stiff;  add  to  the  hatter  with  two  teaspoon fu Is  baking 
powder,  in  eygs. 

MRS.   PKi  K. 


We  Do  Not  Deiw 


that  other  grocers  sell  good  gro- 
ceries —  we  do  not  assert  that 
none  sell  better  goods  than  we; 
few  sell  as  good  :  :  :  :  : 


None  Sell  as  Good   at  as   Low    Prices. 

Thut's  why  we  have  the  trade. 

-.558 

Barney,  Kelly  &  Widmer 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  77 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  lirown  sugar,  one  pound  butter,  one  pound  flour, 
eleven  eggs,  one  pmm<l  citron,  three  pounds  currants,  four 
pounds  raisins,  four  nutmegs,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one  tal.l"- 
spoon  burned  molasses,  two  tablespoons  cinnamon,  one  half 
pint  brandy  or  coffee,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  littlft 
hot  water. 

MRS.  M.  L.   I'KCK. 
CHOCOLATE   SPONGE   CAKF 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter.   1   cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  hot  water, 
1  VL»   cups  of  flour,  yolk   of   one  egg,   2   tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate,  1    small   teaspoonful   of  soda,  dissolved    in   the  water; 
1    teaspoonful   of  baking   powder;   llavor   with    vanilla.   Filling — 
White  of  one   egg  with   confectioner's   sugar   or   boiled   frosting. 
This  cake   lias   quite   a    rage    in    the   east. 

MRS.  F.  J.  WALKER. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  cups  of  sugar,    '•_>    cup  of  butter  1  V>   cups  of  flour  and   one 
of  cornstarch.  or  2'L.   cups  of  cake  flour;   1   teaspoonful   of   bak- 
ing powder.   1    cup  of  milk,   whites  of  four  eggs,   1   teaspoonful 
vanilla.     •  Sift   the  flour  and    sugar   each    four  times.        Always 
add    flour    to    the    creamed    sugar    and    before    adding    milk    or 
water    in    making    any    kind    of    cake.        Chocolate    Filling — 1^ 
cups   of   sugar,    '•_>    cup   of   water,    boiled    together   until   it   rope.?; 
melt    4    tablespoonfuls    of    chocolate    in    this    and    pour    011    the 
stiffly    heal  en    whites    <>f   two    eiigs.         Flavor  with    vanilla. 

MRS.   K.  .1.   WALK  Kb'. 

EASY  FEATHER  CAKE 

''ream  one  cup  white  sugar  with  one  tablespoouful  of  melted 
butter,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  half  teaspoonful  lemon  or  vanilla 
extract,  one  and  one  half  cups  (lour  sifted,  with  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  one  half  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  two 
lavers.  (*se  any  filling  desired.  Makes  nice  jellv  cake. 

MRS.  BEN.  FRANKLIN. 

CONSULT  THIS  COOK  BOOK 

Put  its  instructions  into  practical 
use  and  buy  the  celebrated  :  :  : 

"ACORN"    COOK    STOVE 
From  DAVIS  BROS. 

East  Front  St.,  Hanford And  the  results  will  be  fruitful 


78  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE   (Bride). 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  three  of  flour 
ami  one  of  cornstarch;  or  four  cups  of  Swansdown  Cake  flour. 
The  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  one  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  half  the  milk.  Dissolve  the  cornatarch  in  the  rest 
of  the  milk.  Sift  the  sugar  and  flour  each  four  or  five  times, 
gifting  the  cream  tartar  with  the  flour ;cream  the  butter  and 
add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  it  to  a  cream;  then  the  flour 
and  milk,  alternately;  and  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

MRS.  F.  J.  WALKKIJ. 
NUT  CAKE. 

I  '.._.  <-i;ps  sugar  (scant),  %  cup  butter,  :14  ciiji  sweet  mil'.-.  1 
cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  halt- 
ing powder,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Flavor. 

MRS.  .TOK     TVrODLK. 
MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

Whites  of  eleven  e^gs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  I1-.1  tumblers 
of  sugar,  1  tumbler  <-;ike  flour.  (Sift  cadi  ~>  times).  1  te.-i- 
spoonfui  of  cream  tartar.  Sift  the  flour  once  nnd 
measure.  and  then  add  the  cream  tartar  and  sit't 
four  more  times.  After  the  eggs  are  well  beaten. 
stir  in  the  sugar  lightly  and  very  quickly.  Then  stir 
in  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Put  in  ungreased  layer  tins,  or  bake  in  loaf  in  un- 
greased  pan.  Bake  slowly  at  first.  Invert  the  pan  and  let 
stand  1")  minutes  b«'fnr-_«  removing  from  the  pan.  \farslimallo\v 
filling — Id  cents  worth  of  marshmallows;  I1-.-  cups  sugar:  '•_. 
cup  of  water;  whites  of  two  eggs.  Break  the  marshmallows 
in  small  pieces.  Roil  ti>e  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread; 
then  add  marshmallows  and  inelt  them.  Then  pour  on  th« 
stirtlv  beaten  whites  and  beat  until  cold. 

MRS.    F.   .1.    WALKKK. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  on*;  cup  milk,  throe 
cups  flour,  one  teasponful  good  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  lemon,  whites  of  ten  eggs,  f'ream  sugar  and  butter 
t-igcther.  Add  milk  by  beating  in  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Sift 
Hour  and  baking  powder  together  at  least  six  times,  and  beat 
into  cake  one  spoon* u I  :it  a  time.  Add  lemon  extract  last. 
Whip  eygs  to  stiff'  i'rotli;  add  about  two  spoonfuls  at  a  lin:-> 
into  this  mixture;  beat  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Pour  into 

Abalone,  15c  cau — Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE  RECIPES.  79 

square  or  round  pan  ami    Lake  slowly  until   done.     This  is  fine 
for  either   loaf  or  layer  cake. 

MRS.  B.  FRANKLIN. 
FRUIT  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

.Four  table  spoonfuls  of  citron  chopped  very  fine,  four  table 
spoonfuls  chopped  si--i'ed  raisins;  one  half  cup  of  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  fine,  or  English  walnuts;  one  quarter 
pound  chopped  figs,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract. 
This  is  to  be  used  with  the  boiled  filling. 

MRS.  .1.   A.  MOORF. 
SPONGE  CAKE. 

-  eggs  beaten  light;  beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of 
sifted  flour.  Next  \i>  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Lastly  %  scant  cup  of  boiling  water.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Filling  of  whipped  cream. 

MRS.   y.    V.    DKWKY. 
WHITE  CAKE. 

9  eggs,  '1  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  4  cups  flour,  '2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder.  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  bit- 
ter almond. 

MRS.  JOE  BIDDLE. 
WORLD'S  FAIR  CAKE. 
1  Vo    cups    sugar,    '.j    cup    butter,    ' >    cup    milk.    lVi>    cups   flour. 

1  teaspoon    baking    powder    sifted    with    the    flour,    3    eggs,.   6 
table   spoonfuls   of   unsweetened    chocolate,    melted.     Cream   the 
butter  and  sugar;   add  a   little  of  the  eggs  and  flour  before  put- 
ting in  the  milk.     The  melted  chocolate  is  stirred  in  at  the  las',, 
with   one   teasponful   of   vanilla   extract. 

MRS.  W.  V.  BUCKNER. 
YELLOW  CAKE. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs,  1   cup  of  sugar,   '/:>  <-up  butter   'L.  cup  mv.'v, 

2  cups    flour;     1    cup    raisins    chopped;     l-_>    ten    spoon    soda;     I 
teaspoon    cream    tartar.      Beat   the   eggs   well;    cream    butter   anil 
sugar.     Put  soda  in  milk,  and  add  to  the  eggs.     Sift  cream  oi* 
tartar  and  put   in  flour,  and  add;   then  add  raisins  which  have 
been  dredged   with  flour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  I).  R.  CAMERON. 

CHOCOLATE  MARBLE  CAKE. 

1  cupful  of  butter,  '2  cups  of  sugar,  .'!  cups  of  flour,  4 
<'j;gs.  one  cupful  .-.I'  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonf::N  of  baking 
powder;  a  little  salt.  When  the  cake  is  mixed,  take  one  cup 


Minced  Clams,  15c  can — Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


30  FAVORITE  RECIPES. 

ful  of  b:iTts.T.  and  star  into  it  one  large  spo*  lil-.il  of  choco- 
late, A*et  \vith  a  little  milk.  Fill  your  baking  psn  ;il>i  ^t 
an  inch  thick  with  yellow  batter  aiul  drop  in  this,  the  iHr.'c 
mixture  in  places  forming  rings.  Proceed  with  the  light  till 
all  is  used. 

MRS.  B.   8.   C.rRXKFv 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

2  cupfuls  sugar,  yolks  of  5  eggs,   whites  of  3   eggs,  juice   ^>1" 

1  large  orange,   \'±  cup  cold  water,  '2  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der.    Bake  in  three  layers.     ICING — White  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff  with  powdered  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of   1    orange; 
spread  as  jelly  cake. 

MRS.   F.   J.   WALKER. 

FRUIT   CAKE. 

1  Ib.   or   '2   teacupfuls   sugar,    1   Ib.    or   2   teacupfuls    butter.    4 
teacupfuls  flour,   12  eggs,  2  Ibs.  seeded  raisins,  2  Ibs.   currants, 

2  Ibs.   citron  cut   fine;    1   teacupful   broken   nuts,   2  grated   n-it- 
megs,  1  teaspoonful  cloves,  1  small  table  spoonful  allspice,  3  Vis 
teaspoont'uls  baking  powder.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  to  a   i-rcan* 
Add  well  beaten   yolks,  then  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth* 
mix   flour   lightly,   then   add   fruit   floured,   spices,   one    glassful 
tart  flavored  jelly.     One  glassful  brandy.     Bake  three  hours  in 
slow  oven.        Excellent. 

MRS.  ('.   M.   CROSS. 

SOUR  CREAM  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2  eggs,   1    cup   brown   sugar,    %    cup    sour   cream,    and    butter- 
size  of  small   egg;    %    cup  of  molasses,   little   salt.     Small    tea- 
spoon soda,  2  cups  chopped  raisins;   adding  also  walnut   mr-yrs 
or  almonds,   dates,   figs   and   citron   if   wished;      chopped      liuo; 
cinnamon,   doves,    nut.ueg,   allspice,   mace;    2V4    cups   of   flou--. 

MRS.  P.  R.   CAMERON. 

BROWN   STONE   FRONT. 

One  cup  grated  chocolate,  one  half  cup  brown  sugar,  yolk  of 
one  egg,  %  cup  milk.  Set  this  on  stove  and  let  get  hot  and 
pour  in  cake  while  hot.  CAKE — One  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup 
butter,  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  VL>  cup  milk,  \.2  teaspoonful  soda, 
]  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  hot 
batter  in  this  mixture  and  bake  in  two  layers,  with  boilod 
frosting  between. 

MRS.   R.    C.    WHITE. 

Currants,  2  Ibs.  25c— Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVORITE        RECIPES .  81 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

1    cup   butter,   i'   cups  sugar,    1    cup   milk.   3   cups   flour   (aft^r 
sifted).    6    eggs,    ~    good-sized    teaspoons    baking    powder.     Stir 
butter  a n< I  sugar  to  a   cream;   add   the  yolks  of   eggs,   one  at 
11  time  beat  well;  then  milk  and   Hour  and  baking  powder-   flav- 
or to  taste.     Bake  in  loaf  or  layers  as  you  like. 

MRS.  SADIE  WILSON". 
CARAMEL  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  '  _.  cup  butter,  '  ^  cup  milk,  I1^.  cups  flour.  -  te.v 
apoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  5  eggs.  Makes  two  thick 
layers.  FILLIXU  XO.  1—  '2  cups  granulated  sugar.  1  cup 
cream.  1  tablespoonf  ul  vanilla,  lump  of  butter  size  of  rin 
egg.  KILLING  \().  L-  — 1  cup  sugar  '-j  pint  cream;  boil  to- 
gether until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  add  <5  tablespo,<i:i'it!-i  sugar 
that  has  liceu  previously  melted. 

I,    ' 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Two-t  hirds  cup  ln.iJter,  '2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  '1  eg;;,?;,  I 
cup  sour  milk,  :5  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk.  ^  nut- 
meg, 1  teaspoon  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Merangue — Whites  of 
three-  eggs,  brown  sugar  to  thicken. 

MRS.  L.  E.  Y. 
DOUGHNUTS. 

One  egg  beaten  lightly.  J._.  cup  sugar,  little  salt,  'll/->  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  lard,  1  cup  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder;  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste;  flour  to  roll  soft. 

MRS.  L.  E.  F. 
GOLDEN  ANGEL  FOOD. 

One  level  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  sugar.  7  whole  eggs,  1  level 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  corn 
starch.  Sift  corn  starch,  cream  tartar  and  flour  four  times. 
Moil  sugar  with  water,  like  boiled  icing.  Heat  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Put  into  the  yolks  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Pour  hot  sugar  into  whites  slowly,  then  the  yolks 
And  lasflv  the  flour.  Make  fortv-five  minutes. 

MRS.   M.   F.   TONER. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

Whites  of  from  11  to  14  eggs.  1  cup  flour,  li/L,  cups  sugar, 
"]  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Pinch  salt  in  flour.  Sift  flour 
and  sugar,  each  separately,  six  times.  Beat  eggs  until  begin 
to  froth  well,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very 
light.  Slowly  add  sugar,  giving  it  time  to  dissolve  as  it.  is 
.stirred;  then  slowly  add  flour.  Make  in  ungreased  pan,  with 


82  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 

paper  cap  for  covering.  Do  not  open  oven  door  for  fifteen- 
minutes  after  placing  cake  in  it.  Bake  forty  minutes.  Turn 
upside  down  after  baked,  allowing  it  to  gently  fall  from  pan. 

MRS.   LAXDIS. 
MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

Mix  ingredients  same  as  above,  and  bake  in  three  layers. 
No  caps  required  for  layers.  FILLING — One  cup  sugar  in- 
one-third  cup  cold  water,  boiled  without  stirring  until  it  ropes. 
Have  ready  beaten  white  one  egg,  into  which  stir  syrup.  Place 
'o  pound  candy  in  :tgatt  pan,  inside  open  oven.  When  v.  arm 
stir  all  lumps  out,  and  stir  in  sugar  and  egg.  Spread  between 
layers  and  well  over  outside. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

Dark  part—1/:  cup  white  sugar,  1  large  cup  grated  eho<  <>- 
late,  VL1  <'up  sweet  milk,  yolk  one  egg.  Mix  and  cook  on  back 
of  stove  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  from  burning.  Let 
cool  while  making  light  part,  as  follows: 

',o  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  ',{.  cup  sweet  milk,  1  level  te:i- 
s'poonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  1  cup  sugar.  1'j  -iip^ 
flour.  Mix  light  and  dark  parts,  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Frosting — 1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  cold  water,  boil  until  it  roped, 
without  stirring.  Have  ready  beaten  white  one  egg.  over 
which  pour  syrup.  Stir  until  cool,  place  between  hirers,  and 
over  cake. 

MT?S.    LAN  IMS. 
SILVER  CAKE. 

2    <T,J,S    sugar,    1    cup    butter,    3    cups    flour,    2    spoons    baking 
powder,  1   cup  milk,  whites  of  five  egys.  flavor.       Cream  Inl- 
and sugar.     Sift   flour  and  baking  powder  three  times. 

MRS.  CATHKbMNK  (OK. 

BOILED  ICING. 

One  --up  sugar,  'L.  tup  water.  Boil  till  makes  soft  b-ili 
in  water.  Tour  into  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Beat  un- 
til cool. 

MKS.   HATTIK   DoN  Ac;  KK. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

1  cupful  of  I, utter,  two  cupfuls  of  (scant)  sugar,  1  cupful 
of  milk,  3Vo  cups  of  sifted  flour,  t\vo  teaspoonfnls  of  baking 
powder,  whites  of  five  eggs.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powd'T 
three  times.  KILLING — Take  the  whites  of  ~2  eggs,  beat  :o 
a  froth;  then  add  enough  of  powdered  sugar  to  make  it  thick; 
grate  the  rind  of  one  large  orange:  add  the  juice  of  the  orange 


FAVORITE      RECIPES.  S3 

and  juice  of  one  large  lemon;   add   more   sugar     to     make     it 
right  for  spreading.     Beat  this  mixture  until  it  is  creamy. 

MRS.  J.  A.  MOOEE. 
EGGLESS  CAKE. 

1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk;  two  cups  flour,  thor- 
oughly sifted  with  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  %  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla  and  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  all  together  and  beat 
•well.  Lastly  add  five  table  spoonfuls  melted  butter;  beat  five 
minutes  and  bake  in  three  layers.  When  cool  place  together 
with  filling  of  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  and  sweet- 
ened with  %  cup  sugar.  Serve  fresh. 

MRS.  LANDIS. 
CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

1  cup  grated  chocolate,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  *.£ 
cup  butter,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar.  Put 
on  to  boil,  stirring  until  it  begins  to  boil,  but  not  while  boil- 
ing, as  it  will  candy.  Boil  until  thick  like  jelly. 

MRS.  L. 
WHITE  CAKE. 

1  cupful  sugar,  small  <,;_.  cupful  butter.  '•!•  cupful  milk,  1  and 
2-3  cupfuls  sifted  flour,  1  rounded  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  <'r«*am  butter  and  sugar,  and  sift  bak- 
ing powder  and  flour  three  times.  Add  to  butter  and  sugar  a 
little  Hour  and  eggs  before  milk,  then  the  remaining  whites 
and  flour  gradually.  Thoroughly  mix  and  flavor.  Double  re- 
cipe if  larger  cake  is  desired. 

MRS.  .1UDD  SMITH. 

MAHOGANY  CAKE. 

1  '-j  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  chocolate  cooked  in  \^  cup  of 
milk,  \i»  cup  of  butter,  Vi>  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  '2  cups  of  flour, 
'o  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  For  my  frost- 
ing I  take  2  tablespoons  of  chocolate  and  put  In  milk  enough 
to  melt  it;  then  I  work  in  confectioner's  sugar  until  thick 
enough  to  spread.  lie  careful  and  don't  get  too  much  m'lk 
in  chocolate.  This  makes  an  all  chocolate  cake,  or  you  c:in 
use  a  white  frosting  ,'iid  it  makes  it  nice. 

MRS.  W.  T.  BURXKTT. 

POTATO  CAKE. 

1  cupful  of  butter,  2  and  1 -:i  cupfuls  of  Hour,  vo  cupful  ol 
sweet  milk;  four  sticks  of  grated  chocolate,  unsweetened,  or  1 
cupful;  1  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts,  1  teaspoouful  each  of 

Seeded  Raisins,  lOc  Ib — Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


84  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 


cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  2  cupfuls  of     sugar,     1     cupful 
mashed   potatoes,  4   eggs,   '2   teaspoonfuls     of     baking     powdc 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  flour  and     mill 
liately.    sifting    the   baking   powder   and    grated      chocolal 
gether,   then   eggs.     Add   spices   and      coarsely     choppei 
floured.     Stir  as  little  as  possible  after  adding  the  nuts. 

M  RS.  C.  M.  CROSS. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 


1    scant    cup  sugar,   pinch   of  salt.  1    cup  flour  with  one  even 
teaspoonful   baking  powder.     Sift  all  together,  then  add  tlire- 
e.'gs    unbeaten,    and    one    tablespoonful    .-old   water. 
ininutes;    then   add    a   few   drops   of   lemon   flavoring,    one   moi 
tablespoon  water,   and   %      teaspoonful     baking     powder. 
well  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

.<.   E.  i'  . 


DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

I'-u-t    1—1   cupful  of  l.rovvn  sugar,  V-i   cupful  of  butter,    1    eop- 
ful   of   sweet    milk,   3  cupfuls  of  flour,    1    teaspoonful   of   soda,  : 
eags,   volks  only.          Part    2-1    cupful      brown     sugar.      1    cupii 
pated    chocolate,    K    cupful    sweet    milk.      Flavor   with    van,! 
Put   part     two  on  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  bo.l:   when 
mix  with  part  one.       Sift  flour,  then  measure;  put  soda  n 
and    sift    again.        While    part    two    is    cooking,    mix    par 
Bake  fifty  minutes  in  loaf,  or  bake  in  layers,  and   put   log,- 
with   chocolate  filling.        Let   part   two   get   entirely   cold   1 
mixing    together.     Filling-  1     cup    white    sugar.     «...    cup 
milk     1    cup   grated    chocolate,    1    teaspoon   butter. 
and   milk  boil   and   when   it  will    drop   quick   from   a    spoon   t 
from    stove    and    put     in    ch«  .....  late    and     butter    and 
smooth.        Flavor   with   vanilla. 


FAVORITE     RECIPES. 


Cakes. 


86  FAVORITE     RECIPES . 


//: 


< 


'•. 


I 

1)  v 


FAVORITE      RECIPES. 


37 


FAVORITE     RECIPES 


FAVOIttTE      RECIPES. 


Cookies,  Gingerbread  and  Doughnuts 


TEA   CAKE. 

Break  one  egg  j,,  (.,,|,  an,i  flj]  (.li;,  wjt),  sour  (.roall);  .,,,,.  \t,Vt,\ 
teaspoon  soda.  one  cnii  brown  .sugar,  two  cups  flour;  flavor 
•with  cinnamon.  To  be  eaten  warm. 

MRS.   IM-X'K. 
CREAM  COOKIES. 

1  cup  of  thick,  sour  cream,  ]  cup  sugar,  1  eirg.  fi  piece  of 
butter  si/.e  of  large  egg.  'L.  teaspoonful  salt,  ]  teaspoonfnl 
Hoda.  1  ]>int  cream  (mix  first  with  soda).  Sugar,  butter  ami 
iinlicatcn  <-ir,r  all  to^otlu-r  ami  licat  up  lijjlil.  l"lavor  with 
vanilla.  Add  "•.,  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts,  or  roeoanut  if 
desired.  Flour  enough  to  make  very  soft  dough;  roll  thin 
and  cut.  Bake  in  rather  quick  oven. 

M.    IRKXK    1)I-:\VEY. 
DELICIOUS  COOKIES. 

(5  cgys  beaten  to  a  foam;  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
(sugar  and  butter  well  mixed),  :>  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  1 
large  teaspoouful  of  baking  powder,  '•_.  mitirog;  flour  sufficient 
to  roll  thin. 

MKS.   1).   W.    FJSH. 
^>£   OAT  CAKE. 

','>  cupfuls  oat  meal,  ~2  >upfuls  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoouful 
Koda,  little  salt;  mix  up  dry;  pour  '  :_.  cupful  hot  water  over  '  ._. 
cupful  butter  and  mix  to  the  above.  Holl  out  thin,  cut  in 
squares,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

MRS.    I).   K   CAMKl.'OX. 
SOUR  MILK  SUGAR   COOKIES. 

-  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  butler,  ]  cupful  of  so;:r 
milk,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  .'»  eggs,  1  teaspooiiful  of  soda;  mix 
soft  and  roll  thin  in  sprinkled  sugar  instead  of  flour. 

.   MRS.   T5.   S.   (jri.'XKK. 
"MAMMY  HANKS'   COOKIES." 

One  and  a  half  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  creamed  to- 
gether; three  tablesiioonfuls  sweet  milk,  one  half  t  easpoonfnl 
mitmeg  extract,  one  teaspooiifn!  baking  powder,  two  eggs, 
flour  enough  to  make  dough  as  soft  as  possibl"  (just  so  it  can 
be  handled);  roll  very  thin,  cut  in  any  shape  desired  and  bake 
in  quick  oven  to  light  brown.  Nice  if  sugar  is  sprinkled  on 
before  cutting  out,  but  not  at  all  necessary. 


90  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 

COOKIES. 

Four  cups  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  eggs, 
two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  cup  milk, 
«r  water;  mix  quick,  knead  a  very  little. 

MRS  SAJDTE  WILSON. 
GINGER  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  molassrs.  one  half  cup 
of  butter,  one  egg,  two  ami  a  half  cups  of  flour  (full  cups), 
teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  soda  dissolved  in  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  cold  coffee;  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  sift  with  flour  ono 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one 
of  ginger;  beat  five  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  M.   K.  LADD. 
SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

One  half  cup  molasses,  one  half  cup  soar  cream,  one  egg, 
one  even  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  flour,  one  small  teaspoon 
ginger,  little  salt. 

MRS.  PECK. 
GINGER  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar.  Va  «-'iip  of  molnsses,  ~'*  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  egg,  two-thirds  cup  of  cold  water  v  -th  teaspoonful  of 
soda  disolved  in  it,  one  heaping  spoonfrl  of  ginger.  2Va  cups 
of  flour,  spices.  At  the  last  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

MRS.  W.  V.  HKCKNKR. 
GINGER  COOKIES. 
3  eggs.    1    c'.-p  syrup.   %    cup  of   b utter  and   Tar.!.    1    cup  sugar, 
4%  cups  flour.  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved   ii.  _  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,   1  teaspoonful 
of  ginger. 

MRS.  JOK.  MIDDLE. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

•2  CL'-.S  i  e;-i  li.n'i't.  >:_.  c'lp  butter.  L..  cup  sour  milk,  !••_.  -up* 
of  molasses.  '_'  cups  flour  (measured  after  it  is  sifted),  '2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  ginger.  1  teaspoon  soda.  Bake 
in  shallow  tins. 

MRS.  K.  T.  COSPKR. 
GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cupful    New   Orleans   molasses,    one   cupful   brown    sugar, 
one  cupful    butter.        Roil   twenty   minutes;   add   one  teaspoonfiil 
Koda,  one  well  benten  i-gy.  <me  tablespoonf ul  ginger.       Flour  to 
make   very  stiff. 
MRS.  H.  H.  FJSHKR,  Woodland. 

Durkee's  Salad  Dressing,  35c — Kutner-Goldsteui  Co. 


FAVO3ITB      RECIPES.  91 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  sugar,  halt'  cup  lard  or  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one 
cup  molasses,  half  cup  buttermilk,  two  eggs,  one  scant  tea- 
spoon soda  and  one  of  halting  powder,  one  spoon  ginger,  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

MRS.  ELIZABETH  WAIT. 
DOUGHNUTS. 

7  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk,  1   egg,  \<->  cup  sugar,  \'->  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  hot  lard.  1   heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

MRS.  J    W.  BARBOUR. 
COOKIES. 

•J  egi>'s,  2  cups  sugnr,  1  cup  butter,  -}\  cup  sweet  milk,  1 
level  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  J.  W.  BARBOUR. 
MRS.  BURBECK  DOUGHNUTS. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  %  cup  lard.  :?j  cup  good 
yeast,  -  eggs,  nutmeg,  \/»  cup  potatoes  (mashed).  Sponge  at 
noon;  at  night  add  salt  and  small  teaspoor  soda  and  knead 
into  a  body  (not  too  stiff);  in  the  morning  roll  out  about 
V,  inch  thick  and  cut  in  rings;  lay  on  tea  towel;  sprinkle  with 
flour;  when  very  light  frv  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  ESTHER  BURBECK. 
DOUGHNUTS. 

8  cups  flour,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  1-3  cups 
sugar,  H  eggs,  2  teaspoont'nls  soda,  4  teaspoonfuls  cream  tarta>'. 
These    are    d»>licioi:s,    and    as    the    recipe      makes    quite    a    large 
(|uantitv    it    is    nice    when    making   for   a   compaiiv. 

MRS.  L.   E.  F. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two-thirds  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  cupfuls 
of  flour,  one  tablospoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Work  with  the  hands  as  little  as  possible. 

MRS.  SLIGHT. 


92 


FAVORITE     EECIPES  . 


Coohies,  Gingerbread  and  Doughnute 


D 

<J 


O    f\  >\. 


r 


i-  a  <^- 


/    ^.w 

0 


-  c< 

A-X_ 


, 


J 


. 

•uc^r 


"' 


*    "'  r 


. 

- 


'    • 


94 


TAVORITE     RECIPES. 


FAVORITE      RECIPES. 


96  FAVORITE     RECIPES . 


Desserts 


ITALIAN   CREAM. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  */•>  box  gelatine,  so:ikpd  until  soft;  -.-r 
milk  come  to  the  boiling  point;  add  gelatine.  4  eggs,  sepa- 
rate yolks  from  the  v.  bites;  beat  1  tablespoon  Luis  granulated 
sugar  with  the  yolks,  and  four.ta'blespoonfuh  granulated  sugar 
with  the  whites.  StL-  yolks  in  the  boiling  vm!k;  remove  from 
fire  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  in 
mold;  let  stand  in  H  cold  place  over  night. 

MRS.    R.  T.  COSPKR. 
MARSHMALLOW   CREAM. 

Dissolve  one  tabU-spoonful  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  boiii.ig 
water;  when  dissolved  pour  very  slowly  over  the  stiff  beat-  M 
whites  of  4  eggs,  one  tup  of  sugar  prd  one  tea-spoon  lemon  -x- 
tract.  Beat  until  it  begins  to  set  and  then  put  in  moulds.  Se;-<-e 
with  whipped  cream.  By  getting  "leaf  gre<>  i "  and  "fruit 
red"  paste,  this  can  be  divided  in.  three  parrs  and  a  ribbon 
cream,  made  red,  flavored  with  roso;  white,  lemon;  green,  va- 
nilla. Put  in  layers  n  your  mould. 

MR*.  CAMKHOX. 
FROZEN  BANANAS. 

1  dozen  bananas,  l  pound  sugar,  i  pint  water,  ,'i>i!-f  •_'  orar. <;•••-;, 
1  pint  cream.  Peel  bananas  ami  mash  them  fine.  Boil  water 
and  sugai  together  :'or  live  minuter,;  strain,  and  when  cool,  ad-1 
orange  juice  and  haiu-nas.  Free/,?,  turning  tiowlv.  Wln-n 
frozen,  remove  the  dashei  and  stir  the  cream  in  carefully  (wlii->- 
ped);  repack  and  s«-t  away  to  harden. 

LTCV  CORTXKH. 
SORBET. 

1  quart  water,  1  pint  sugar,  1  cup  orange  juice,  1{>  cup  leim  n 
juice,  1  pint  cho|>ped  pineapple.  Cook  water,  suof..r  and  pirn- 
apple  for  ^(1  minuttefi;  add  fruit  juice;  cool;  s'laii',  .md  freeze 
to  mush.  Use, for  -'reeling — 1  part  rock  salt  to  H  parts  crushed 
ire. 

LUCT  COKTXKK. 
STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Hull  1  quart  of  berries;  sprinkle  vitli  about  J  cups  of  sugar, 
and  mash  them;  let  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  th'Mi 
through  a  clotii;  add  1  quart  of  cream,  and  if  net  s\ve--t 


FA\  QUITE   .RECIPES.  97 

enough  add  more  sugar.  The  pulp  le:'t  in  the  c'dtli  should  lie 
stirred  ii  to  a  little  milk  and  sqiuv.'-d  again  in  order  to  get  ;ill 
the  berries,  but  not  1'ie  seeds.  The-i  freeze.  K'ispberry  crea'ii 
does  not  require  so  i:uidi  fruit  juice,  as  the  flavor  is  stronger 
and  richer. 

ANNA    DOl'KIXS. 

MILK  SHERBKT. 

1  quart  sweet  mi!'\,  .  pint  sugar,  .ji:ice  of  ."',  lemons,  grate-1 
peel  of  cue;  juice  of  1  (.range.  Mix  .juices  wi'h  sugar;  put  :'i 
free/.e.  and  partially  ,Ki<-k  them;  add  milk.  Turn  until  well 
blended  and  (iuish  parking. 

MKS.    fOr!    BTDDLK. 

ORANGE  DESSERT. 

Select  oranges  having  fine  skins;  -ut  away  ouo  third  from  tlu- 
end  of  each  orange  and  with  a  spoon  7emovc  all  the  pulp.  I'se 
onlv  the  larger  parts,  <  utting  the  edges  in  small  points.  Put  the 
skins  it;  cold  water  i:ntil  read}  to  -erv  e.  Press  the  juice  from 
the  pulp  with  vegrTibie  press;  there  shouH  !•••  about  a  pi.it 
of  juice  to  (i  oranges  Soak  V2  box  gelatine  In  ''-  cup  r-ol-l 
water  iinlil  soft:  add  1  cup  boiling  v;<iter."  .juic->  of  1  lemon,  1 
cup  sugar  and  1  pint  orrnge  juice.  Sli:-  until  .iugai  is  dissolved 
and  strain.  Set  away  to  chill.  When  rea-ly  to  serve  arrange 
the  ski:is  on  a  suitable  dish  collet  ively.  or  placo  on  separate 
plates  ,o  lie  served  indlv  iduall  v,  ih'-'i.  I'll  with  1  in  jellv  cut  in 
cubes  a;id  decorate  \ri1h  whip|--e<l  cream  and  can-.ln  d  cherries. 
CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

I  pint  cream,  well  whipped;  beat  5  tablespoons  sugar  with 
volk*  of  4  e-gs;  simmer  together  <  _•  pint  milk  ai^d  ^  <>z.  geU- 
ti.io  until  gelatine  is  cii^sohvd;  then  MIX  with  Uaten  yolks  ami 
sugar;  add  the  whii.-s  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  then  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  aiic  set  aside  Lo  cool.  Po.u-  into  mould 
previously  lim-1  with  sponge  cake.  When  stiff  and  solid,  turn 
m.to  plate  and  sift  sagar  ovor  ^  TOKTNKK. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Moil    together    '/•'•    '-an  tomatoes,   :,   cloves,   1   La/  leaf,   a   slice 
of  onion,  y->  teaspoon  thyme,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  a  little  salt 
pepper,    a  Tlash    of   red    pepper    and    ^    cup      vinegar;    boil 
strain;  add  a  box  of  gelatine  and  heat     agaiu.       Pour  m  nioi-J 

:,,,d  set  on  ice  a  day.       Serve  with  meat.  ^^TI  r 

Mii>>.     I  L   L  i  ljr>. 


Pickles,  35c  quart—Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


98  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 

FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES. 

1  quart  strawberries,  juice  of  two  lemons.   1    pound   sugar.  1 
quart     water.        Add  sugar  and   lemon   juice   to   berries;    stand 
aside  one  hour.     Mash  lie1  lies,  add  water,     stir     until  sugar  is 
thoroughly  dissolved  Mid   freeze  slowly. 

LUCY  CORTNKK. 
ICE  CREAM. 

One-half  gallon  good  cream,  one  half  gallon  milk,  three  ciijis 
sugar,  one-half  cup  gelatine,  soaked  in  one-half  cup  water  one- 
half  hour.  Set  in  ftove  until  dissolved;  strain  and  cool;  put 
in  freezer;  add  gelatine  and  freeze. 

MRS.  JOB    BIDDLE. 
TRUIT  PUNCH. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cuo  vater,  1  cup  te»;  ice  water,  1  quart  bot- 
tle  Appollinaris,    1   pint   strawberry   syrup,   juice   of   5   lemons, 
juice  of  5  oranges,  1  can  grated  pineapple,  V->   pint  Marashin" 
cherries.       Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water;  add  tea, 
fruit  juices,  pineapple  and  strawberry     syrup.       Let   stand   '!0 
minutes;  strain;  add  enough  ice  water  to  make  I'-j   gallons  of 
liquid;  turn  into  a  large  punch  bowl  over  a  pi.-<-.-  «!'  u-eancla-M 
cherries  and  Appollinaris  water. 

LUCY   CORTNKR. 
STRAWBERRY  ICE. 

4  tablespoons  gelatine  dissolved  in  hot  water,  3  boxes  straw- 
berries mashed  and  s\veetened;  make  a  good  ricn  lemonade;  ad-1 
the  gelatine  and  berries  and  freeze.  This  m:?,ke.3  one  gallon. 
Any  fruit  or  berries  m::\  be  used  the  same  as  strawberries — yel- 
low peaches  especially  nice. 

A.  \l.  DOPKINS. 
ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

1  dozen  oranges,  6  lemons,  10  pounds  of  sugar;  slice  the  fruit 
very  thin,  taking  out  all  the  seeds;  put  J/4  ?iut  of  water  0:1 
them;  put  the  fruit  in  a  granite  pan  and  put  water  in  until  yon 
can  just  see  it  coming  up;  do  this  over  night.  Next  morning, 
pour  the  water  from  the  seeJs  in  witli  the  fruit,  and  put  on  ts 
cook;  when  boiling  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  the  fruit  la 
tender. 


FAVORITE      RECIPES .  99 


Desserts 


/rU^?~tSl —     J  •£&^6~h—  ;*7^'£rP~*t^    ^T" 

,      +    / 
~&*TS  erTAstyf*-*  r~&~t-  ^€— - 


*/^    trit~ 
*^^C- 


? 
*V-tsis<J          ~ 


^AjP&lrtJs  ^Ks 

/  f 

6-CL         6^0..    ( 

&~c*^ 


_  £^*°° 

/ 


^ 
-  ^^^ 


- 


FAVORITE      RECIPES .  101 


)VIi9ccllancou3 


MARGUERITES. 

3  pound  of  raisins  (seeded),  one  povud  English  valnuts,  chop- 
ped fine  together;  make  into  a  real  paste.  Beat  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  add  sugar  r.ntil  stiff  enoug.i  for  it-ing  -so  it  will  not 
run  off  the  crackers.  Get  v.afer  <rackers;  spread  them  with 
the  paste  of  nuts  ind  raisins  and  ;-o\er  with  icing.  Put  them 
in  a  very  hot  oven  !'•)!•  a  minute  only,  to  give  them  a  delica'-- 
brown.  These  are  "try  nice  to  serve  with  coffee  or  chocohr>- 
for  light  refreshments. 

MlfS.  Tl'TTLE. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID. 

Cover  twelve  pounds  berries  with  iwo  quarts  •.v:>Ter.  to  whii-ii 
add  five  ounces  tartari<-  acid.  Lot  stand  forty-eight  hour;; 
strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  from  three-fourths  to  ouc 
pound  sugar,  according  to  taste.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Lei 
stand  for  a  few  days,  then  bottle  or  put  in  a  jug,  and  if  in- 
clined to  ferment,  leav^  the  cork  out  for  a  few  days.  A  little. 
of  the  acid  put  in  water  makes  a  pleasant  drink  for  summer,  and 
is  refreshing  to  a  siex  person,  and  i.ot  injurious  in  the  least. 

MPTS.  LANDTS. 

WALNUT  WAFERS. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,    i    cup  \\alnut   meats,  «->it  >'i   small  pie.-r-: 
i/4  teaspoon  salt,  3  heaping  tablespoons  flour;  mix  well  together 
and  add  two  eggs  well  beaten;  place  in  a  grease  I  tin,  a  teasn..,.u 
in  a   place,   with   space  between  each  one. 

MES.  D.  R.  CAMERON. 

ANGEL  FOOD  WAFERS. 

Made  like  Angel  «  'ake.  Put  a  teaspoon  in  a  place,  in  a  tin. 
and  watch  closelv  in  tdo\v  oven. 

MRS.  D.  R.  <  A.MKb'O.X. 

HERMITS. 

2  eggs,  IV-  flips  white  sugar,  1  »-i.p  butter,  1    teaspoon   wde 
dissolved    in'o    tablespoons   sweet   milk,    1    cup    raisins   ehoppfl'1 
fine,  M,  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon;  roll  and 
cut    like  cookies,  and  bake  in  a  quit  >c  oven. 

MRS.    D.    I,1. 


California  Olive  Oil,  large  bottles,  $l_Kutnev  Goldstein  •  k>. 


102  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 

3ROWN  DROP  CAKES. 

1  egg,  2-3  cup  sugar,  3-3  cup  of  '.Hitter  (melted),  ]  tablespoon 
molasses,  %  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  cup  flour,  cinna- 
mon and  allspice;  bake  in  gem  pans. 

MRS.  D.   H.  CAMEBOX. 

NUT  PARFAIT. 

1  pint  of  whipped  cream,  whites  ct  3  or  4  tggs,  J/j  ciip  of 
sugar,  ]/4  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of  ruts  (English  walnuts),  1 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  The  nuts  should  be  slightly  crisped 
in  the  oven,  cooi.nl  and  rolled  with  a  rolling  pin  in- 
stead of  chopping  thenu  Beat  'the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  same  as  for  frost- 
ing and  pour  slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  and  beat  until  co-,1; 
add  nuts,  vanilla  and  whipped  cream;  pack  in  one  pound  baking 
powder  cans,  in  ice  and  rock  salt,  Mid  let  stand  S1^.  hours  >r 
more,  if  packed  in  one  large  can  or  f'cezer. 

MRS.  F.  j.   WALKKK. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

12  seedless  oranges  sliced  fine.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add 
two  pints  of  water;  >et  stand  24  houys;  boil  until  soft;  measurf 
and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  ...IVi-  pounds  sugar  and  boil  1% 
hours.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of 
six.  lemons.  .  ,  •,  . ,  , 

MRS.  F.  .1.   WALKKR. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

In  making  whipped  cie'gm,  be  sure  to  cool  thi'  cream  below 
churning  temperature  (which  ranges  from  'i4  to  7«  degivos 
Fahrenheit),  or  you  ];.ay:get  a  dish  of  butter  on  hand;  and  the 
cooler,  the  quicker  ir  becomes  thi. -I. ;  only  don't  freeze  it,  of 
course.  To  a  coffee  cup  of  cream  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  little  flavoring  extract;  I/eat 
all  together;  an  egg  beoter  will  do  the  work  tho  most  rapidly. 
This  quantity  will  ma.lte  a  quart .  bo-.vli'ul,  after  it  is  beaten  so 
as  to  stand  alone  wntn  dropped  from  off  a  spooii.  The  cream 
should  be  rather  thick,  and  perfectly  sweet.  So  you  sec,  you 
have  a  quart  out  of  ,1  cupful, "by  using  the  wliites  of  only  two 
eggs  with  the  cream. 

MRS.   I).  S.  FISH. 
ORANGE  TARTLETS. 

3  large  oranges  (jiiifc  of  3  and  rind  of  one),  1  cup  sugar,  2 
dessert  spoons  of  butt<r,  juice  of  JL.  lemon,  3  teaspoons  corn 


Alphabet   Paste,    1-lb.   box,    15c — Kutuer-Goldstein   Co. 


Two  Things  That  Are  Es- 
sential to  Man's  Happiness 


plenty  to  6at 
plenty  to  Cdear 


Enough  for  self, 
And  some  to  spare. 

It  will  be  easy  to  have 
money  to  spare  if  you  trade 
at  our  store. 


The  Largest  StocU 
The  Best  Goods 
The  Lowest  Prices 


Are   the   inducements    we  "THE  PRINCETON* 

would  have  you  investigate.  ' 


B.B.McGINNIS&CO. 


104  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 

starch  wet  with  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  of  water,  1  -gg.  H;>:.t 
to   a    smooth    ,-ream.   and   let   it   boil;    then   pour    into   t 
lined  with  crust.' and   hake.  ^    HATTIK   ROBINSON. 

CREAMED  BICE. 

o    tablespoons    rice,    croked    until       tender    in    :     littl-    snlt-d 
water;   1  tablespoons  of  gelatine   cooked   in   the   rice   abo 
mtnutes;  then  set  off  to  cool.       When  cool  add    ;,,  pint  or  whi,,- 
ped  ,ream  and    %   cup  of  sugar;  bent  all  well  together  1 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  put  in  a  mou^ijfl 


CREAM   PUFFS    (About   One  Dozen.) 

One-naif  cup  butter,  <-ne  ,-up  of  hot  water.  ,me  cup  of  riour. 
three  eggs      Let  water  and  butter  boil;  Then  stir  ...   Hour 
ter  stirring  a  minute  set  off  and  let  cool;  mix  in  eggs  inj* 
and  tea,,oon    baking  powder;  drop  with  spoon  in  »,,,tt,r,M    ,a- 
and  bake  thirtv  minutes  in  hot  oven.     When  cold  open  an, 
with  ,-,stard  or  wMppri  -ream.  ^^     ^    y    TAVLOB. 

LEMON  TARTS. 

Two   cups  sugar,   tv-o  tablespoons  melted   butter,     two      egj 
well   beaten,  juice  of  one  lemon.     Bake  in  pastry     slu-lh 

of  filling  t,,  8  «  ^^   BALDWIN 


MACAROONS. 

Whites  of   two   eggs,   one   cup   level   full   of   powdered   sugar 
one-half    pound    of    almonds.      Pour    boiling  water    over    t 
monds  to  take  off  the  brown  skins;  then  put  in  the  ovn  t. 
When  cold  round  the.,  to  a  paste,  beat  the  eggs  aud  su.^r  to  a 
,tiff   froth    and    add    to    the   almond    paste,      mix.ng      th< 
with  the  back  of  a  s,.oon.     Roll  the  preparation   ,a  your  1- 
into  little  balls  the  si/,-  of  a  nutmeg;   place  on  papoi 
and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  H  light  brown.  ^^    ^  TrTTLV 


ALMOND  WAFERS. 

One    pound    sugar.    »l,e    pound    butter       one      pound      al.n»P.b 
rtieed  fine,  one  taWaspoon  baking  powder  sieved  with  a  q 
,,f  n,-ur.  using  plenty  of  Hour  to  roll;  sprinkle  -gar  and 

nitnl  un  t01>-  SA-RA    \\KISBAFM. 


Sugar  Wafers,  60c  lb—  Kutner-Goldstein  Co. 


FAVOR  ITE      RECIPES.  105 

PICKLE  FOR  CORN  BEEF. 

To  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  ten  pounds  s:i!v,  one  pound 
brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  salt  petre.  Boil;  skim;  have  meat 
in  barrel  and  pour  over  boiling  Jnit.  Watch  and  poilr  oft",  an<i 
boil  over  after  a  few  da  vs. 

.1.  H.   DOPKLXS. 
SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  them  and 
then  boil  in  strong  salt  water.  One  cup  of  salt  to  one  an!  a 
fourth  cups  of  water.  Boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Dry  i-i  ,i 
towel  by  moving  them  back  and  forth.  Then  fry  in  hot  fat 
until  a  prettv  brown. 

MRS.   J.    A.    M001JK. 

FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS  AND  FACE!. 

(ilycerine    1    ounce;    lierjjoin    1    dram;    cologne    1    ounce;ext  i  -a  • 
of   witch    ha/.el      enough    to    make    S    ounces.        Apply      and    dry 
thoroughly. 

MRS.   VILSliO  HALL. 


106  FAVORITE     RECIPES. 


JVIisccUancous 


>r 


--       -^xt-C          4/&-^,     <Z*^~i^0( 
r 

A^£^S  . 

h^t~P<!*~<-<.  ^~      AT^^-C    /-zr^-tJ't, 

^y     /     v      /  •    "7  • 

-^7     /K-^    rr1^^ 

'       / 

<L^i-4^\ 


&»*. 


0 

I  /  -~  SI  /"•»  ^fl^Lxt^Z-.  y^^-        .      >^       X" 

/s 

-<>- 

^ 


INDEX 


Bread  ..............  34-41 


73-88 
Cookies,  Gingerbread  and  Doughnuts..  89—95 

Desserts  ........  ............  i  ............................  Z  96-100 

Entrees  .....................................................  28-33 

Meats  ....................................  17  _  27 

Miscellaneous  .................................  101—106 

Salads  ...........  42—48 

..................................................  "'.".' 

Pickles  49—54 


65-72 

55—64 
Vegetables  ..................................  7_16 


/\J^t 


J 

^1 


d^i 


DO  YOU  W/VINT  A  RECIPE 

FOR  MAKING  YOU  SLAD  ? 


This  is  All  There  is  to  it    See 

McCOURT  &  NEWPORT 

For  Men'*  and  Boys'  Good  Wearables. 


