Favorite 
Tested  Recipes 


of  the  members  of 


Humboldt  Park  Chapter  O.  E.  S. 

and  Their  Friends 


Compiled   by 

Dagmar  J.   Stevens,   W.    M.,    Mabel   Baker 
and   Esther  Stevens 


"If  you  arc  fond  of  spicy  literature,  read  a  cook  book. 


CO  -J 

LU  — 


o 

<UjO 

2*tf 
<<< 

3       -J 

5 


"We  may  live   without  poetry,  music  and  art 
JJ'c  may  live  without  conscience  and  live  without  heart 
We  may  live  without  friends,  ive  may  live  without  books, 
But  civilized  man   cannot  live   without  cooks. 


'He  may  live  without  books;  what  is  knowledge  but  grieving 
He  may  live  without  hope;  what  is  hope  but  deceiving 
He  may  live  without  love;  what  is  passion  but  pining 
But  where  is  the  man,  who  can  live  without  dining? 

"Owen  Meredith." 


i 


/-> 


j. 


Introduction 


In  presenting  this,  our  cook  book,  to  the  notice 
of  our  many  friends  we  do  so  with  the  full- 
knowledge  that  there  are  cook  books  "ad  lib- 
itum," if  not  "ad  nauseum,"  floating  around, 
and  that  an  excuse  for  perpetrating  another 
must,  of  necessity,  be  a  good  one  to'  entitle  the 
ladies  to  any  consideration  at  the  hands — or  we 
might  say,  the  stomachs — of  a  long- suffering 
and  dyspeptic  public. 

i 

Appreciating,  however,  the  dangerous  ground 
on  which  we  tread,  we  venture  fearlessly  along 
the  path  which  we  have  marked  out,  fully  be- 
lieving that,  after  having  tested  the  recipes  in 
our  book,  you  will  not  only  forgive  us  for  our 
temerity,  but  will  arise  and  call  us  blessed.  We 
believe  that  most  of  the  recipes  are  new  and 
original  and,  while  we  have  not  collected  them 
from  the  four  quarters  of  the  globe,  we  have, 
thanks  to  our  members  and  friends,  gathered 
into  this  book  the  best  of  the  tested  recipes 
used  by  them,  the  quality  of  each  being  vouched 
for  by  the  signature  of  the  lady  presenting  the 
same. 

Trusting  that  your  days  may  be  lengthened 
by  the  use  of  the  recipes  herewith  presented,  we 
send  forth  into  the  world  the  Humboldt  Park 
Chapter  Cook  Book. 


COMMITTEE 

Mabel  Baker,  Chairman 
Esther  Stevens,  Assistant 

Bertha  Palmetier  Anna  Scheer 

Hattie  Melind  Nellie  Neely 

Lillie  Mclntyre  ••      Estelle  Diercks 

Louise  McGrath  Minnie  Krempel 

Laura  Bretsnyder  Florence  Burkhardt 

Augusta  Burkhardt  Mary  Burkhardt 

Grace  Bright  Louise  Burr 

Ida  B.  Andersen  Marguerite  Marx 

Emma  Wagner  Kathryn  Ahlborn 

Nellie  Barling  Nellie  Lawson 

Ada  Rapson  Lillian  Sriver 

Officers  of   1918 

Dagmar  J.  Stevens,  Worthy  Matron 
John  H.  Anderson,  Worthy  Patron 
Ellen  W.  Hansen,  Associate  Matron 
Irene  McDermed,  Secretary 
Agnes  Riddle,  Treasurer 
Jessie  M.  Glad,  Conductress 
Ada  L.  Nickey,  Associate  Conductress 
Marie  Konzelman,  Chaplain 
Leila  Larsen,  Marshal 
Mabel  Baker,   Organist- 
Freda  Puerkel,  Adah 
Grace  Shoemaker,  Ruth 
Clara  Swanson,  Esther 
Maida  Gnadt,  Martha 
Anna  Edmonson,  Electa 
Laura  Andersen,  Warder 
Arthur  Egkild,  Sentinel 
Frederick  Basedow,  Stereoptician 
Alice  E.  Soukup,   Correspondent 


BREAD  5 

Bread 

"One  simple  little  song  we  sing 
To  brides  but  newly  wed 
Just    make    the   best   of   everything 
Especially  of  bread." 

BARLEY   BREAD 
Twenty-five   Per  Cent  Substitute 

One  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  syrup,  two 
and  one-half  cups  lukewarm  water,  three  cups  barley  flour,  five  cups 
wheat  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  shortening-,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  dis- 
solve yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid;  mix  flour  and  barley  flour 
together,  add  to  the  liquid  three  cups  of  this  flour  and  beat  well;  add 
shortening,  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  salt;  knead  until  smooth;  let  raise 
in  warm  place  free  from  draft  until  double  in  bulk  about  two  hours; 
mould  into  loaves,  place  in  well -greased  pans,  cover,  let  raise  until 
double  in  bulk,  about  one  hour;  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven, 
reducing  heat  after  first  fifteen  minutes. 

BOSTON    BROWN    BREAD 

Four  cups  rye  meal,  two  cups  cornmeal,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  molasses,  four  cups  sour  milk.  Mix  dry  ingre- 
dients thoroughly,  add  molasses,  then  the  milk;  beat  well,  put  into 
greased  moulds  and  cover  tightly.  Steam  about  six  hours,  then  put  in 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  dry;  fill  moulds  only  about  two-thirds  full  to 
allow  bread  to  raise.  One-pound  baking  powder  cans  make  nice  moulds 
for  brown  bread.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

BRAN     BREAD 

One  and  one-half  cups  wheat  flour,  one-half  cup  bran,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup 
milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  well.  Let  raise  in  pan  about 
20  minutes.     Bake  40  to  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Coralie   Goodall. 

BREAD 

Scald  one  pint  milk  and  one  cup  water.  Pour  this  over  two  table- 
spoons shortening,  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Dis- 
solve one  cake  yeast  in  a  little  warm  wafer.  When  milk  has  cooled  to 
lukewam  beat  into  it  four  cups  flour.  Add  dissolved  yeast.  Mix  well, 
cover  and  set  away  to  rise.  When  light  add  to  it  about  five  more  cups 
of  flour,  or  enough  so  dough  does  not  stick  to  fingers.  Knead  for  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Set  to  rise  again  until  twice  its  size.  Form  into  loaves 
and  rise  again.  Bake  forty- five  minutes.  By  adding  to  the  bread 
sponge  two  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  you  will  have  potato  bread. 
This  makes  three  large  loaves. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

CHOCOLATE   NUT   BREAD 

One  cup  of  bread  sponge,  one-half  cup  unsweetened  chocolate,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  knead  in  flour  as  for 
bread;  before  putting  in  pan  add  cup  of  English  walnuts  broken  (not 
chopped).  This  does  not  raise  as  quickly  as  white  bread.  Makes 
delicious  sandwiches.  Ellen  W.  Hanson... 


6  BREAD 

GOLDEN   CORNBREAD 

One  cup  cornmeal,  one  cup  flour,  one-quarter  cup  sugar,  five  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  three-quarters  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup 
milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter;  mix  and  sift  dry 
ingredients,  add  milk,  egg  well  beaten  and  butter;  bake  in  shallow 
buttered  pan  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

HEALTH    BREAD 

One  and  one-half  cups  oatmeal,  one  and  one-half  cups  bran,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  cups  boiling  water;  when  cool  add  one -half  cake  yeast, 
dissolved  in  one  cup  warm  water  and  one -half  cup  flour.  Mix  and  let 
stand  until  morning,  then  add  four  cups  flour,  mix  and  put  in  tins;  let 
rise  and  bake  about  forty-five  minutes;  raisins  may  be  added. 

Lillian  Cermak, 
W.  M.,  Millard  Chancer. 

HUTZEL   BREAD 

Mix  two  handfuls  of  dried  prunes  with  a  handful  each  of  dried 
apples  and  pears,  and  stew  until  tender;  then  put  through  the  food 
chopper,  add  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water  and  one  tablespoonful  salt; 
work  in  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  shortening  creamed  with  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  each  of  chopped  raisins  and  nut 
meats,  one  teaspoonful  of  coriander  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  anise  seed, 
one-half  cup  molasses,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  stirred  in 
it;  beat  in  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
water;  when  all  of  the  ingredients  are  blended  put  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough  that  can  be  kneaded,  turn  into  a  pan  to  raise  and 
when  light  make  into  loaves  and  set  to  raise  again.;  when  light  bake 
in  a  steady  oven  for  one  hour  or  one  and  one-half  hours.  In'  this 
recipe  when  you  put  on  the  fruit  to  boil  put  on  enough  water  so  you 
will  have  one  quart  of  juice  instead  of  just  plain  water.  This  bread 
is  delicious  and  keeps  a  long  time. 

Emma  Bennett,  W.  M.,  Kosmos  Chapter. 

NUT  BREAD 

Eight  cups  flour,  eight  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  cups  chopped  nuts,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  eggs,  four 
cups  milk;  mix  well,  let  stand  twenty  minutes;  bake  one  hour  in  slow 
oven.  Laura  Andersen. 

NUT  BREAD 

Four  cups  flour^four  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  cup  sugar  (all  sifted  together),  one  cup  nut  meats,  one 
egg,  one  pint  milk;  beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  mix  nuts  with  dry  ingre- 
dients and  stir  in  with  milk  alternately;  let  stand  twenty  minutes 
before  baking;  bake  one  hour. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 
NUT  BREAD 

Four  cups  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  four  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  raisins, 
or**  agg  (well  beaten),  .two  cups  imUk;  Ut  raise  twenty  minutes;  bake 
in  a-  slo.w.overi.  v.  •*-..  Martha  -Clehde-nin.-- 


BREAD  7 

NUT   BREAD 

Four  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  two 
cups  milk,  two  eggs,  four  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt;  let  raise  twenty  minutes;  bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour. 
Enough  for  two  loaves.  Lena  Engelhardt. 

OATMEAL   BREAD 

Two  cups  cooked  oatmeal,  one  pint  mashed  potatoes,  hot  water 
to  thin;  let  this  stand  from  noon  until  night,  then  add  one  cup  hot 
water,  two -thirds  of  cake  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge; 
let  raise  all  night;  in  the  morning  add  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  fat  and  salt;  mix  stiff  with  ground  oatmeal  and 
flour  (equal  portions)  and  form  into  loaves. 

Isabel  Agard. 

OATMEAL   BREAD 

Three  cups  oatmeal  (ground  fine);  over  this  pour  three  cups  of 
scalded  milk  and  let  stand  five  minutes;  add  six  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  nine  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  four  and  one-half  cups  white  flour, 
ten  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  eggs  beaten  light;  bake 
about  one  hour.     This  will  make  three  large  loaves. 

Charlotte  Olsen,  P.  M. 

OATMEAL   BREAD 

Two  cups  oatmeal,  four  cups  hot  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  short- 
ening; when  cool,  add  one -half  cup  molasses,  salt,  one  cake  yeast,  flour 
enough  to  make  sponge;   let  raise  same  as  bread. 

Cornelia  Beazley. 

OAT   MEAL   BREAD 

Two  cups  oatmeal,  two  cups  boiling  water,  five  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  molasses,  one,  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  one -half  cup  lukewarm  water, 
one-half  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  shortening;  scald  oatmeal;  let 
cool  then  add  molasses,  salt,  shortening,  yeast  and  flour;  let  raise  once 
(or  twice  if  you  wish)  form  into  loaves,  let  rise  again;  bake  about  fifty 
minutes.  Louise  McGrath. 

RICE   BREAD 

Twenty-five   Per  Cent  Substitute 

One  and  one -half  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar  or  corn  syrup,  two  and  one-half  cups  lukewarm  water  or  milk 
and  water,  two  cups  rice  flour,  five  cups  wheat  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls 
shortening,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm 
liquid;  mix  wheat  flour  and  rice  flour  together;  add  three  cups  to 
liquid  and  beat  until  smooth;  add  shormimg,  the  rest  of  the  flour  and 
salt,  knead  until  smooth ;  let  raise  in  waffm  place  free  from  draft  until 
double  in  bulk,  about  two  hours :  moulcQ  into  loaves,  place  in  well- 
greased  pans,  cover,  let  raise  until  double  in  bulk,  about  one  hour; 
bake  forty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven,  reducing  heat  after  first  fifteen 
minutes. 


8  BREAD /  /  / ^ 

771a*.    £>  -    ■&*&-   <=t^J*  ^Aj^_  ' 

I     CcasL.  JsSnJ  *H«*)       (&A#€*~"rM 


/ 


(fruits  Im**-  &  *fj*w«\ 


rMBOLDT  PARK  CHAPTER  COOK  BOOK 


Leigh  &  Reinhart  Co. 

Dry  Qoods  and  Notions 


TWO  STORES 


5534-36  W.   Chicago  Ave. 

Phone,  Austin  4040 


3575   Armitage   Ave. 

Phone,  Belmont  5414 


TELEPHONE  BELMONT  7714 

AUTOMOBILE  ACCESSORIES 

C.  HAHN  &  COMPANY 

HARDWARE 

SHEET  METAL  WORK  WARM  AIR  FURNACES 

TILE  ROOFS  STEEL  CEILINGS 

Paints,  Oils,  Brushes,  Glass,  Etc. 

3535  ARMITAGE  AVENUE  CHICAGO 

THE  ARMITAGE  HOME  OF  SWEETS 

The  Best  of  Pure,  Wholesome  Confections 

Delicious  Ice  Cream  -:-  Fresh  Fruit  Flavors 

We  Carry  a  Complete  Line  of  Cigars,  Tobacco  and  Cigarettes 

GUS    GAGIDIS   &    BROS. 

Telephone  Albany  3285  3547  ARMITAGE  AVENUE 


Phone   Belmont  2283 


Josephine  Peterson 


PETERSON'S  WAIST  AND  GIFT  SHOP 

Silk  Underwear,  Brassiers,  Silk  Sweaters 
and  Silk  Waists  our  Specialties 

3065  Armitage  Avenue  C  H  I  C  A  G  O 

watch  our  windows  For  Real  Bargains  in 

Cut  Glass,  Sherbets,  Water  Sets,  Tumblers,  Etc. 

Very  appropriate  for 
Wedding   and   Birthday  Gifts 

EL,  J.  R  E  h  a 

Manufacturer  of 

CUT   GLASS  —  Wholesale   and   Retail 

3330   Armitage   Ave.,   near   Kimball   Ave. 

Phone  Belmont  1408 


10  BISCUITS,    ROLLS,  COFFEE  CAKE 

Biscuits,  Rolls,  Coffee  Cake 

"They   that  have  no   other  meat 
Rolls  and  muffins  are  glad  to   eat." 

APPLE    CAKE 

Cream  two  tablespoonsful  shortening  with  one -fourth  cup  sugar. 
add  one  scant  cup  milk,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoonsful  baking  powder;  cut  apples  in  eighths  and  lay  on  cake  after 
putting  in  pan;  crush  three  or  more  slices  of  soft  white  bread  into  tine 
crumbs,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 
and  sprinkle  over  cake;   bake  until  apples  are  soft. 

Clara  Swanson. 

BISCUITS 

One  pint  milk,  one  tablespoonful  shortening,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cake  yeast,  flour  enough  to  knead; 
let  raise,  roll  out  with  rolling  pin,  cover  with  sugar,  melted  butter  and 
cinnamon;  roll  again,  cut  into  biscuits  two  inches  long;  raise  again; 
make  a  caramel  by  boiling  one-half  pound  brown  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls water,  one  teaspoonful  butter;  pour  this  over  biscuits  just 
before  putting  in  oven.  Selma   Olsen. 

BAKING    POWDER   BISCUITS 

One  quart  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  butter,  one  and  seven-eighths  cups 
milk;  sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  four  times,  cut  and  rub  the 
butter  into  the  mixture  with  the  fingers,  add  the  milk  gradually,  mixing 
lightly  until  the  whole  is  a  light  spongy  mass;  turn  on  a  well-floured 
board  and  roll  lightly  to  one  inch  thick;  cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.     This  will  make  about  eighteen  biscuits. 

Marguerite  B.  Taylor. 

BAKING   POWDER   BISCUIT 

To  make  a  dozen  large  biscuits  use  one  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  even  table - 
spoonsful  of  lard  or  butter  and  sweet  milk  to  moisten;  sift  the  salt  and 
baking  powder  twice,  then  rub  the  lard  in  the  flour,  add  milk  enough  to 
moisten;  the  dough  should  be  so  that  it  will  not  stick  to  the  board;  roll 
an  inch  thick  and  cut  in  cakes;  bake  thirty  minutes  jn  a  moderate  oven. 

Lillian  McQuillan. 

BAKING   POWDER   COFFEE   CAKE 

Three  cups  of  flour,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
eight  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  lump  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg;  then  add  two  eggs  and  two  cups  of  milk;  mix  altogether  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon;    bake   in  a   moderate  oven. 

Christine  Ericksen. 

BRAN     MUFFINS 

Two  cups  bran  Hour  <  r  bran,  one  cup  white  flour,  three-fourths  cup 
raisins,  two  teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg;  if  sour 
milk  or  cream  is  used  use  three-fourths  teaspoonful  soda.  Makes  twelve 
large  muffins.  Lillian  Sriver. 


BISCUITS,   ROLLS,  COFFEE  CAKE  ll 

BRAN     MUFFINS 

Two  cups  bran,  two  cups  wheat  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  cups  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
lard  or  butter,  one  egg,  one  and  one -half  level  teaspoon  baking  soda, 
one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Beat  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together  well. 
Dissolve  soda  in  boiling  water  and  add  to  sour  milk.  Then  add  bran, 
white  flour,  salt  and  the  butter,  sugar  and  egg  mixture.  Mix  well. 
Bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven  in  muffin  tins.  If  sweet  milk  is  used 
substitute  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  for  soda. 

Coralie  Goodall. 

BRAN  ROLLS 
Twenty-five  Per  Cent  Substitute 
One  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk 
(scalded  and  cooled),  two  teaspoonfuls  corn  syrup  or  brown  sugar,  one 
and  one-quarter  cup  rolled  oats  (ground),  one  cup  bran,  two  cups  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  shortening,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  dissolve  yeast  and 
sugar  in  lukewarm  milk;  mix  flours,  add  two  cups  to  liquid  and  beat 
well,  add  shortening,  the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  salt;  knead  until 
smooth,  let  raise  in  warm  place  free  from  draft,  about  two  hours; 
shape  as  for  Parker  House  rolls,  let  raise  one  hour;  bake  twenty  min- 
utes;  serve  hot. 

COFFEE  CAKE 
One-half  cup  shortening  and  one  cup  water,  heated  together;  add 
one  cup  milk;  pour  this  on  one-half  cup  sugar,  mixed  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Then  add  two  cups  flour,  one  beaten  egg  and  a  yeast 
cake,  dissolved  in  warm  water.  Beat  well,  set  to  raise  in  warm  place, 
add  flour  and  let  raise  for  the  second  time.    Put  in  pan  and  bake. 

Christine  Vorpahl. 

COFFEE   CAKE 

One-quarter  cup  soft  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one-half  teaspoonful  saleratus  (dissolved  in  milk),  one  egg  well  beaten, 
two  cups  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  salt;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  milk,  egg 
and  flour;  before  baking  sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  top  and 
dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

CORNMEAL    MUFFINS 

One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar  (creamed),  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  either  sweet  or  sour  milk  (when  sweet  milk  is  used  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder;  for  sour  milk  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
soda  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder),  two  cups  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  cornmeal.  Marie  Egkild. 

CORNMEAL   MUFFINS 
Fifty   Per  Cent  Substitute 

One  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  two  cups  milk  scalded  and  cooled, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  or  corn  syrup,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted 
shortening,  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  and  one -half  cups  cornmeal,  two 
cups  wheat,  one  teaspoon  salt;  dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm 
milk,  add  cornmeal  and  flour,  the  egg,  shortening  and  salt;  beat  until 
smooth;  All  well-greased  muffin  pans  two-thirds  full;  let  raise  until 
it  fills  pan;  about  one  hour;  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes;  split, 
butter  and  serve  hot. 


12  BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  COFFEE  CAKE 

CORNMEAL   MUFFINS 

One-half  cup  cornmeal,  one  cup  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  milk,  one  egg;  mix  the  dry 
ingredients,  add  the  milk  gradually,  the  egg  well  beaten,  and  the  melted 
butter;   bake  in  a  hot  oven  in  buttered  gem  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

Edith  L,  Johnsen. 

CRUMB  COFFEE  CAKE 

Two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  butter 
or  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one -half  teaspoonful  salt; 
mix  all  together  in  fine  crumbs  with  the  shortening;  take  out  one- 
quarter  of  the  crumbs  and  set  aside  for  top  of  cake;  break  two  eggs 
into  the  other  part  of  crumbs,  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  milk  gradu- 
ally, flavor  with  vanilla;  beat  hard  until  it  looks  like  cream;  sprinkle 
crumbs  on  top  and  bake  slowly  in  one  long  tin. 

Bertha  Haneman. 

DATE     MUFFINS 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  shortening,  add  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and 
two  tablespoonsful  sugar;  beat  well;  add  two  cups  milk  and  two  cups 
Hour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonsful  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful 
salt;  add  one -half  pound  dates,  stoned  and  cut  fine;  lastly  fold  in  beaten 
white  of  egg;    bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  about  twenty-five   minutes. 

Coralie  Goodall. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar  (granulated),  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  lard,  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  salt  and  nutmeg,  one  level 
teaspoonful  soda  mixed  in  three  cups  of  flour;  enough  flour  on  board 
to  roll  without  sticking;  fry  in  deep  fat.  This  will  make  thirty-five 
doughnuts.  Lillian  Yerger. 

DUTCH     APPLE    CAKE 

One  cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  in  flour;  sift  well;  add 
one  tablespoonful  lard,  rub  in  well,  mix  with  fork,  pinch  of  salt,  tea- 
spoonful sugar  and  one  egg  beaten  in  cup;  fill  cup  with  milk;  then  just 
pour  on  enough  to  make  it  stick  together  and  put  in  pan  and  work  out 
with  fingers  dipped  in  flour;  put  thick  slices  of  apple  on  top,  sugar,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes 
in  hot  oven.  Grace  Shoemaker. 

GRAHAM     GEMS 

Scant  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  heaping 
tablespoonful  lard;  mix  together  and  add  one  cup  sour  milk  into  which 
has  been  dissolved  one  teaspoonful  soda;  add  a  handful  of  white  flour 
and  enough  graham  flour  to  drop  into  gem  tins  and  bake  thirty  or  forty 
minutes.  Edna  M.  Siebel. 

GRAHAM    MUFFINS 

One-half  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  butter  and  lard,  one  egg,  one 
cup  milk,  one  cup  white  flour,  one  cup  graham  flour,  two  teaspoonsful 
baking  powder.  Minnie  Krempel. 


BISCUITS,  ROLLS,  COFFEE  CAKE  13 

OATMEAL   MUFFINS 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  oatmeal  (ground),  pour  over  this  one  cup 
scalded  milk;  let  stand  five  minutes,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-half  cup  flour,  four  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  egg  beaten  light. 

Laura  Andersen. 

PARKER    HOUSE    ROLLS 

Dissolve  one  cake  yeast  in  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water  with  two 
tablespoons  sugar  and  one  teapsoon  salt.  Add  one  pint  milk,  scalded 
and  cooled,  four  tablespoons  melted  lard  and  one  pint  flour.  Beat  till 
smooth.  Let  rise  until  light,  then  add  about  two  pints  more  of  flour 
or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  rise  again  until  twice  its  size. 
Roll  out  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Brush  with  melted  butter,  cut  with 
biscuit  cutter,  crease  through  center  and  fold  over.  Let  rise  again 
about  one  hour.     Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

POPOVERS 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light.  Add  two  cups  milk  and  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  pour  this  gradually  into  two  cups  flour,  beating  all  the  time. 
When  very  smooth,  strain  through  sieve.  Fill  very  hot,  greased  muffin 
tins  half  full.     Bake   in   a  hot   oven   25   minutes.     (Delicious.) 

Clara  Swanson. 

POTATO   BISCUITS 

Three  medium-sized  boiled  potatoes  mashed,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  or  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
granulated  sugar,  one-half  cake  yeast,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  enough 
flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  dough;   let  raise  and  bake. 

Matilda  L.  Wallace. 

QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE 

One  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
water,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder; 
beat  well;   sugar,  cinnamon  and  nuts  on  top  of  cake. 

Katherine  Kallsefci. 

RASPBERRY   BUNS 

Rub  one-half  cup  butter  into  three  cups  flour,  add  one -half  cu',j 
sugar  and  two  well-beaten  eggs;  mix  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  soda  with  a  little  milk  and  stir  into 
the  mixture.  If  it  is  not  wet  enough  add  a  little  more  milk,  but  the 
dough  must  be  stiff.  Mould  into  buns,  make  a  hole  in  the  top  of  each 
one  and  put  in  one  teaspoonful  raspberry  jam,  drawing  up  the  dough  to 
cover  it.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Jessie  Glad. 

RICE  FLOUR  MUFFINS 
Three-quarters  of  a  cup  rice  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter  or  butter  substitute,  two  tablespoonfuls  wheat  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  seedless  raisins 
or  flavoring,  one-half  cup  warm  milk;  mix  rice,  flour,  sugar  and  raisins, 
add  well-beaten  egg,  and  melted  butter:  gradually  warm  milk  and 
wheat  flour,  into  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  bake  thirty 
minutes  in  muffin  pan  in  moderate  oven. 

Ethel  Held  Young. 


14  BISCUITS,   ROLLS,   COFFEE  CAKE 


ROLLS 

( >ne  cup  bread  sponge,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter;  cook  milk, 
butter  and  sugar  together  and  let  it  cool;  then  add  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff:  mix  with  bread  sponge;  when  it  rises  work  it  down  with  flour; 
two  hours  before  needed   work   into   rolls;    then   raise   again  and   bake. 

Sophie  Knoeppel. 

SCOTCH    BUN 

One-quarter  pound  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs, 
one  and  one-quarter  cups  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  each  of  raisins,  currants,  and  orange 
peel;    spices   if  wanted:    bake   one  and   one-half  hours   in   a   slow  oven. 

Mary  Milton. 

SCOTCH    SCONES 

Two  cups  Hour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful 
cream  of  tartar;  work  in  small  piece  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  little  salt,  buttermilk  or  sweet;    don't  handle  much. 

Mary  Milton. 

SOUR  APPLE   CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves,  onerquarter  teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little  warm 
water;  grate  one  cup  of  sour  apples,  add  one  and  three-quarter  cups  of 
flour;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes:  let  cool  before 
taking  from  pan.  Christine  Ericksen. 

WAR     MUFFINS 

One  large  tablespoonful  lard,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  one  egg,  one  cup  oatmeal,  one  cup  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  each 
barley  and  wheat  flour;  cream  lard,  sugar  and  salt  together:  add  egg. 
well  beaten,  then  milk  and  oatmeal;  beat  well,  then  add  two  heaping 
teaspoonsful  baking  powder  sifted  with  barley  and  wheat  flour;  use 
enough  flour  to  make  medium  batter:  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Ida  Basedow. 

WHOLE   WHEAT   MUFFINS 
Fifty   per  Cent   Substitute 

<  )ne  and  one-half  cakes  Fleischmann's  yeast,  one  tablespoon  brown 
.sugar  or  corn  syrup,  two  and  one-half  cups  lukewarm  water,  three 
cups  rolled  oats  ground,  two  cups  whole  wheat,  one  tablespoonful  short- 
ening, one  teaspoonful  salt;  dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm 
liquid,  add  half  of  the  flour  and  beat  well,  add  the  shortening,  the  rest 
of  the  flour  and  the  salt  and  beat  well;  batter  should  drop  heavily 
from  the  spoon;  let  raise  until  light,  about  one  hour;  fill  well-greased 
muffin  pans  two-thirds  full:  let  raise  forty-five  minutes;  bake  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  moderately  hot  oven;   serve  hot. 


BISCUITS,   ROLLS,   COFFEE  CAKE  15 


16 


HUMBOLDT  PARK  CHAPTER  COOK  BOOK 


n 


othing   we   can   say  in    words 
speaks  as   eloquently  of  the 
merit  of  our  work  as  the  work  itself 

Our  next  best  advertisement  is 
the  approval  of  our  many  satisfied 
customers   for  this — 

"The  House  of  Good  Printing" 


^mmt 


CHICAOQ 


Have  You  a  Safe   Place  to  Keep   Your  Liberty   Bonds? 

Safe  Deposit  Boxes 
$2.50  and  up 

Whether  you  have  One  Bond  or  One  Thousand,  we 

will  provide  the  needed  Protection  at  the  nominal  charge 
of  $2.50  per  year. 

WE  FURNISH  ABSOLUTE  SECURITY 

HOLSTEIN  SAFE  DEPOSIT  &  TRUST  CO. 

State  Commercial   &  Savings  Bank  Bldg. 

1937  MILWAUKEE  AVENUE 

At  Western 


Why  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour 
makes  the  Best  Cake 

By  the  Swans  Down  Girl 

Yes,  I  used  to  make  my  bread  and  cake  with  the  same  flour.  But 
that  was  before  I  knew  about  SWANS  DOWN  CAKE  FLOUR.  I  wouldn't 
think  of  such  a  thing  now. 

You  see  bread  and  cake  are  altogether  different.  Good  bread  must 
be  nutritious,  substantial,  sustaining.  Good  cake  should  be  light,  dainty, 
smooth,  tasteful.  If  bread  is  the  staff  of  life,  as  they  say,  then  cake  is  the 
sunshine,  music  and  flowers.  We  couldn't  do  without  either.  But  really, 
it's  a  mistake  to  think  that  the  same  flour  will  do  for  both. 

"Why  won't  bread  flour  make  good  cake,  too?" 

Well  it's  like  this.  A  cake  must  be  light.  For  lightness  we  depend 
upon  the  action  of  the  heat  of  the  oven.  It  expands  the  air  in  the  beaten  eggs, 
and  also  makes  the  baking  powder  work,  liberating  carbon  dioxide,  a  harmless 
gas.  The  expanding  air  and  gas  puff  up  or  raise  the  cake  batter  or  dough, 
which  bakes  and  hardens  in  this  position,  so  that  the  cake  retains  the  structure 
of  a  very  fine-grained  sponge. 

Now  a  good  bread  flour  is  rich  in  the  heavier  constituents  of  wheat, 
especially  gluten,  which  is  a  tough  rubbery  substance,  hard  to  stretch  or 
expand.  The  expanding  air  and  escaping  gas  which  give  cake  its  creamy, 
feathery  delicacy  can  not  properly  raise  this  heavier  bread  dough,  so  your 
cake  is  soggy,  heavy  and  indigestible. 

But  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  is  especially  prepared;  all  the  coarser 
materials  are  taken  out  of  the  wheat  grain,  leaving  the  fluffy,  lightest  and 
whitest  portions  as  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour,  from  which  any  one  can  easily 
make  a  perfect  cake,  if  they  will  only  follow  the  instructions. 

Cake  you  know  is  made  rich  and  nourishing  by  the  fresh  eggs,  butter, 
sugar  and  milk  you  put  into  it,  so  you  don't  need  tke  heavier  elements  found 
in  bread. 

I  feel  this  way  about  cake.  I  don't  bake  it  every  day,  and  when  I  do 
I  want  it  to  be  as  nice  as  I  can  make.  I  don't  want  to  take  any  chances, 
or  to  waste  my  time,  or  to  waste  my  material.  I  want  to  make  good  cake 
every  time.     For  this  reason  I  use  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour. 

Yes,  you  can  buy  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  from  your  own  grocer  anywhere 
in  packages,  just  as  you  want  it,  always  fresh. 

I  almost  forgot  to  mention  color.     Bread  flour  with  its  yellow  or  grayish 

/turte  won't  make  that  lovely  snowy  cake  that  melts  in  your  mouth.     Swans 
Down  Cake  is  white  as  milk  and  light  as  swans  down. 
This  is  why  I  use  Swans  Down  Specially  Prepared  Cake  Flour  for  all  my 
cakes.     You  will  too  after  your  first  trial.     Take  my  advice,  try  it  next 
baking  day. 

Igleheart  Brothers,  Evansville,  Ind.,  U.  S.  A. 

Established  1S56 


RECOMMENDED  AND  SOLD  BY 


ANY  GOOD  GROCER. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  17 


Cakes  and  Frosting 

"Her  cakes  were  a  poem  in  flour; 
You  looked,  and  you  longed  to  devour." 

A  SPONGE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  potato  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  one -quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  flavoring  to  suit 
taste.  Separate  eggs,  beating  yolks  until  lemon  color,  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally, sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  to  sugar  and  yolks,  then 
add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  stir  in  flavoring.  This  recipe 
makes  eight  nice  cup  cakes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Can  be  served 
with  whipped  cream  or  are  very  nice  with  jam  and  grated  cocoanut 
on  top.  Frosting  may  be  used — the  following  is  simple:  Place  a  soup 
bowl  in  the  top  of  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  put  a  square  of  bitter  chocolate 
and  a  dessert  spoon  of  butter  in  the  bowl;  when  melted  add  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  one  tablespoon  of  cream  or 
milk  and  stir  until  smooth;  when  smooth  spread  on  cakes.  This  makes 
a  glossy  frosting  and  never  runs  off.  This  recipe  may  be  baked  in  a 
loaf  also.  Grace  M.  Hay, 

W.  M.,  Austin  Chapter. 

A  QUICK  AND  CHEAP  CAKE 

Put  two  eggs  in  a  cup  and  fill  with  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and 
one -half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  vanilla;  place  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl  together  and 
beat  instead  of  stirring.  Jennie  Jj.  M.  Rust. 

ANGEL   FOOD 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar,  one  cup  flour  (sifted  five  times),  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar 
(sifted  three  times) ;  beat  eggs  one  minute,  then  add  cream  of  tartar, 
beat  five  minutes  more,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  then  add  flour;  bake  in 
moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Bertha  Jasper. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one -half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cup  apple 
sauce,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonsful  soda,  one-half  box  raisins,  two 
cups  flour;  bake  slow.  Emma  McKinney. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  cup  unsweetened  apple  sauce,  one-third  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup 
raisins  (washed,  dried  and  floured),  one  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground  cloves, 
one  tablespoonful  melted  shortening;  mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add 
apple  sauce  and  melted  shortening,  last  of  all  the  floured  raisins.  Bake 
in  a  loaf  about  forty- five  minutes  to  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Nellie  Barling. 

ARMY   LAYER  CAKE 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  cocoa,  one  tablespoonful 
lard,  one  cup  buttermilk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda. 

Dessie  Reynolds. 


18  CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 

APPLE   SAUCE   CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  unsweetened 
apple  sauce,  one  level  teaspoonful  baking-  soda  dissolved  in  apple  sauce, 
one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon,  two  cups  tor  more)  flour,  two-thirds  cup  seeded 
raisins,  one-half  cup  nut  meats. 

BLUEBERRY  TEA   CAKE 

Two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one 
cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  rounded  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  cup  blueberries,  one  pinch  of  salt;  mix  in  order  given; 
serve  warm  with  butter.  Clarissa  Hasenbalg. 

W.   M.,   -Madison  Chapter. 

BROWN     FRUIT    CAKE 

Boil  together  for  three  minutes  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
cold  water,  two  cups  of  raisins,  one-third  cup  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  cloves;  when  cool  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  water,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with 
pinch  of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  beat  all  well 
and  bake  in  slow  oven.  Ellen  W.  Hansen. 

BUTTER   FILLING 

Beat  one-third  pound  unsalted  butter  ten  minutes  then  add,  a  little 
at  the  time,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  warm  coffee, 
one  beaten  egg,  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  beat  all  together  thoroughly. 

Marie  Baumgarten. 

BURNT  SUGAR  LAYER  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  (granulated. 
unburned),  one  cup  water,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  burnt  sugar  (one  cup  sugar  in  very  hot  pan;  stir  until  brown, 
then  add  one-half  cup  hot  water  to  make  a  syrup,  using  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  this  syrup),  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  two  cups  flour.  Filling:  Three  tablespoonfuls  gelatine 
dissolved  in  three-quarters  of  a  cup  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla, 
one  pound  powdered  sugar;  beat  one-half  hour. 

Lillian  Hill  Taylor, 
\Y.    M..    Siloam   Chapter. 

CARROT    CAKE 

<  »ne  cup  grated  carrots,  two  cups  sugar,  two- thirds  cup  shortening. 
two  cups  milk,  four  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  four  teaspoonsful  baking 
powder;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Lillian  Cermak,  W.  M.;  Millard  Chapter. 

CHOCOLATE   FROSTING 

Two  squares  grated  chocolate,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  quarter  cup  of  milk;  boil  until  thick,  s>et  aside  to  cool 
and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  quite  thick. 

Milada  R.  Koren, 
W.  M.  of  Prague  Chapter. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  lit 


CLUB   CAKE 

( )ne  cup  cornstarch,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
two  cups  flour,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
flavor  with  rose  or  almond.  Ella  Lawson. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 

one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  shredded  cocoanut, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  flavoring.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream;  add  the  cocoanut  and  egss;  then  add  the  milk  and  sifted  flour 
and  baking  powder.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

CONSERVATION    COCOA    CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  cocoa,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  pinch 
of  salt,  one  egg  yolk;  cream  these  ingredients  together  then  add  one 
cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful soda,  and  fold  in  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff;  bake  in 
two  layers  and  put  together  with  frosting  made  of  milk  and  confee 
tioner's  sugar;   flavor  with  vanilla.  Xellie  I.  Xeely. 

CORN   STARCH    LOAF  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  eggs,  two  cups 
flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  corn- 
starch, vanilla;  cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  then 
milk;  sift  flour,  cornstarch  and  baking  powder  together  three  times; 
then  mix  and  beat  well;   bake  in  slow  oven  about  one  hour. 

Anna  Puerkel. 

CREAM    PUFFS 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  flour,  four 
fggs;  put  butter  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  place  over  lire;  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  boil  add  flour,  all  at  once,  and  stir  briskly  until  the  mix- 
ture leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan;  remove  from  fire;  when  cool  add  one 
unbeaten  egg  and  beat;  add  another  egg  and  beat  and  so  on  until  four 
have  been  added;  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  pan,  two  inches  apart; 
bake  thirty  to  forty  minutes  or  until  puffs  are  firm  and  crusty;  when 
cool  slit  and  fill  with  whipped  cream. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

CREOLE   FROSTING 

One-half  cup  white  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  place  on 
stove  and  boil  until  threads;  take  off  fire  and  add  one-half  cup  brown 
sugar,  beat  up  good  and  pour  into  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and  then 
add  flavoring.  Jennie  Rust. 

CRUMBLE   CAKE 

Six  eggs  beaten  separate,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  pound  dates 
mixed  with  three  scant  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one-half  pound  shelled  walnuts,  three 
tablespoonfuls  hard  bread  crumbs;  bake  in  a  round  loaf  pan  about 
forty-five  minutes;  when  cake  is  baked  and  cool,  crumble  cake  on  a 
lar^e  plate  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Jennie  Johnson. 


20  CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 

CHOCOLATE   LOAF  CAKE 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  two 
cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  milk,  three  level 
tablespoonfuls  cocoa,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla;  cream  butter,  add  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten;  then  add  alternately  the  flour,  in  which 
the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and  the  milk;  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  cocoa  and  vanilla;  stir  in  a  few  chopped  nuts,  if  desired;  use 
a  boiled  frosting.  Emilie  Adam. 

CRUMB  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  rub  all  together  as  for  pie  crust;  take  off 
one-half  cup  crumbs,  put  two  unbeaten  eggs  and  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  milk  into  crumbs  and  beat  well;  then  sprinkle  dry  crumbs  on  top 
of  dough  and  bake  quickly.  Elenora  Oppenhagen. 

DATE  CAKE 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  shelled 
walnuts,  one  pound  dates  (washed  and  stoned),  one  small  cup  flour, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  bake  in  loaf  form;  mod- 
erate oven;  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  sliced  as  fruit  cake. 

Elsie  J.  Otto, 
W.  M.  Ravenswood  Chapter. 

DATE  CAKE 

One-half  package  of  dates  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  cup  boiling 
water;  add  one  teaspoonful  soda  and  pour  over  dates  cream,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  one  egg;  then 
add  flavoring  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour;  lastly  stir  in  dates, 
water  and  soda;  bake  in  form  or  loaf  in  slow  oven  thirty-five  or  forty 
minutes.  Anna  Ekluno". 

DATE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  egg  (white  beaten 
separately),  one  and  one-third  cups  flour,  one  cup  dates  or  one-half 
package,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda;  sprinkle  soda  on  dates,  then 
pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over  dates;  one  cup  nuts,  one  pinch  salt; 
bake  in  slow  oven  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes. 

Iberia    Gould. 

DEVIL'S   FOOD 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  two  cups  sugar,  add  yolks  of  five 
eggs  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  grated  chocolate,  three  teaspoonfuls  vanilla, 
one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  and  last  the  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Two  cups  very  dark  brown  sugar  (maple  flavor),  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  two  eggs,  on-1 
teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one -half  cup  bitter  choco- 
late, heated  on  stove,  three  cups  flour;  add  boiling  water  last.  Filling: 
Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  boil 
all  together  and  beat  to  a  cream,  add  vanilla  last. 

Jennie  Papin, 
W.  MM  Justice  Chapter. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  21 

DEVILS  FOOD 

One  heaping  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one  and 
one -half  cups  flour  (may  be  mixed  with  rice  flour),  two  teaspoonfuls 
cocoa  (sift  together),  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  boiling 
water,  add  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda;  bake  in  layers  or  sheet. 

Anna  Eklund. 

DELMONICO   CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one  teaspoonful  baking" 
powder,  two  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  cup  each  cooked  prunes 
and  walnuts  (chopped);  bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  any 
desired  frosting. 

Emilie  Adam. 

DROP  CAKE 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  one  cup  chopped  dates,  one  cup  chopped  nuts;  serve 
with  whipped  cream.  Addie  Swanson. 

DROP  CAKE 

Four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  two  cups  cut  up  dates,  two  cups  broken 
walnuts;  bake  about  thirty-five  minutes  in  flat  pan. 

Elenora  Oppenhagen. 

ECONOMICAL   FRUIT  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  one 
pound  currants,  one-half  pound  citron,  one  cup  molasses,  one  egg,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  pinch  of  salt,  one 
cup  warm  coffee,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Wash 
the  fruit  thoroughly  and  put  it  in  a  warm  place  to  dry.  Beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg,  fruit  and  spices;  then  the  flour  and 
coffee  alternately  and  the  baking  powder  last.  Line  a  deep  baking  pa.i 
with  well-buttered  paper;  pour  the  batter  into  it  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  about  three  hours.  May  Mann. 

EGGLESS,   BUTTERLESS,   MILKLESS  CAKE 

Put  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  three  minutes  the  following:  One 
cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  water,  two  cups  raisins  or  one-half  cup  cur- 
rants, one-third  cup  lard,  cne-quarter  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt;  when  cool  add  one  small  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  add  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  one- 
half  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  bake  in  rather  slow  oven;  one  cup  of 
nut  meats  may  be  added,  or  figs,  dates  or  other  dried  fruits. 

Isabel  Agard. 

FRENCH    CREAM   CAKE 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonful baking  powder,  three  teaspoonfuls  water.  Filling:  One  pint 
milk,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls 
cornstarch,  vanilla.  Elizabeth  Jahnke. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 


FAIRY   LOAF  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  beaten  separately;  one  and  one-quarter  cups  granulated 
sugar,  three-quarters  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk  (sweet),  two  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  scant  one-half  tea- 
spoon soda,  flavor  to  taste.  Method:  Sift  flour  once,  then  measure, 
add  soda  and  sift  three  times;  cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly; 
beat  yolks  to  a  very  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar;  whip 
whites  to  a  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  until  very  stiff;  add 
milk,  then  whites  of  eggs,  then  flour,  then  flavor  and  stir  very  hard. 
Bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

FIG   CAKE 

One  cup  chopped  figs,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  soda 
(let  cool),  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  sugar,  one -half  cup  butter, 
three  eggs  (save  whites  for  frosting),  two  level  cups  flour  (may  be 
mixed  with  rice  flour),  pinch  salt,  add  flavoring;  bake  in  layer  or  form. 
Filling  for  layer:  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  water;  boil 
until  threads,  then  add  to  beaten  whites  and  beat;  flavor. 

Anna  Eklund. 

FROSTING 

One  and  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  mix  with  one-half  cup 
melted  butter,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla;  chopped 
nuts   on   top.  Grace  L.  Pierce, 

W.  M.,  Albany  Park  Chapter. 

GENTLEMEN'S  FAVORITE 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  five 
eggs  beaten  separately,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  bake  in 
layers.  Filling  for  cake:  Grate  three  large  apples,  put  on  stove  and 
cook  until  soft,  then  add  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon;  cook  five  minutes  longer,  then  spread  between  layers  of 
cake.  Ella  Lawson. 

GOOD   DEVIL'S  FOOD 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  three  squares  bitter  chocolate  dissolved  in  one- 
half  cup  milk,   two  cups  flour,  vanilla;    bake  in  shallow  pan  or  layers. 

Christine  Vorpahl. 

GOOD  SPONGE  CAKE 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  and  one -quarter  cups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  cold  cold  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  white  flour,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  flavoring  to  suit;  beat  the  yolks 
with  one  tablespoon  of  cold  water,  then  gradually  add  the  sugar, 
then  the  water  slowly;  sift  baking  powder  with  flour,  and  lastly  add 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  makes  three  layers;  bake  about  twenty 
minutes.  Ida  Flanigan. 

GRAHAM   CRACKER  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  three -quarters  of  a  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  milk;  roll  twenty-six  graham  crackers  fine,  mix  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  into  other  ingredients,  then  add  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  bake  in  two  layers. 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES  23 

95c  for  25  lbs.  or  less;   3c  for  each  additional  pound 

over  25  pounds 

WET   WASH    LAUNDRY 

4511-4513   N.   Clark  Street 

Phones   Edgewater  5099-3282  H.  W.  PELLAGE,  Mgr. 

PHONE    SUPERIOR   36  Special  Attention  Given  to 

Funerals,  Weddings,  Banquets 
and  Social  Functions 

DUNN'S  FLOWER  SHOP 

HENRY  C.  DUNN 

Cut   Flowers  and   Floral   Decorations 

Palms  and   Ferns         -:-  -:-  Blooming   Plants  in  Season 

807  No.  State  Street  CHICAGO 

HiifWHnifiiHntiiiituiHHiiiiiniiiiuimituiitiiiimuiytiiiDiHHnsiifiHiHimii^ 


S.   I.   Nielsen  Alex.  Baker 


"TELL  IT  WITH  PICTURES" 

NOTHING    MORE   APPROPRIATE   THAN    PICTURES 
FOR  THAT  GIFT 

THE    BAKER    STUDIO 

has  a  complete  line  of  Oil,  Water  Color  and  Pastel  Paintings 

Represented  by 

SVERRE    I.   NIELSEN 

Phone  Albany  8918       2530   NORTH    KEDZIE   BOULEVARD 


&lli!l!llilll!lllll!llllllllllllllllll!!lll 

The  Highest  Grade  of  Telephone 

PIANO  POLISHING  Humboldt  4258 

Done  in  Your  Home 

JULIUS   OEHL 

Columbia   Grafonolas  and   Records 

MUSICAL   INSTRUMENTS 

Expert  Repairing  Piano  Tuning 

Sheet   Music   and   Strings 
Spalding's  Sporting  Goods 

2305  Milwaukee  Avenue  CHICAGO 

Cor.  California  Avenue 


24  CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one-third  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  three  egg  yolks,  twenty-four  graham  crackers,  one  cup 
of  chopped  walnuts,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs;   serve  with  whipped  cream  in  layers. 

Lena  Engelhardt. 

GRAHAM   CRACKER   CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs  beaten  separately, 
one  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  graham  crackers  rolled  fine,  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  cocoanut  or  nut  meats. 
vanilla;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  milk;  sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  together,  then  add  graham  crackers;  mix  welKand  add 
nuts  and  vanilla.  Makes  two  layers.  Filling:  #  One  pound  powdered 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  milk  enough  to  make  it  smooth, 
vanilla.  Anna  Puerkel. 

GRAHAM    CRACKER   CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  two  eggs,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  cracker  crumbs,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

ICE   CREAM    FROSTING 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter  (cream),  one- 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  tablespoonful  cream  or  milk;  grease  and 
flour  pans;   bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Marie  Konzelman. 

JELLY    ROLL 

Six  yolks,  beaten  with  one  very  scant  cup  sugar  for  ten  minutes, 
add  the  four  beaten  whites  and  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  flour;  bake 
in  a  sheet  pan;   spread  with  jelly  and  roll  up  at  once. 

Milada  Koren. 
W.  M.,  Prague  Chapter. 

LEMON    APPLE    FILLED    CAKE 

Cream  four  tablespoonsful  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar;  when  creamy 
add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one-half  cup  milk;  sift  one  and  two- 
thirds  cups  flour  with  two  and  one-half  teaspoonsful  baking  powder 
and  add  gradually  to  first  mixture;  bake  in  loaf  tin  thirty- five  or  forty 
minutes  in  moderate  oven;  split  in  half  and  put  together  with 

LEMON    APPLE    FILLING 

Mix  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  Hour  in  saucepan. 
add  three  tablespoonsful  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoonful  cold  water,  one 
egg,  well  beaten,  pinch  of  salt  and  one  apple,  pared,  cored  and  grated: 
heat  to  boiling  point,  boil  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  cool  before 
spreading  on  cake.  Coralie  Goodall. 

MOCHA   ICING  AND   FILLING 

one  tablespoon  butter  creamed  with  one  cup  confectioners'  sugar: 
add  one  tablespoon  cocoa,  two  tablespoons  strong  coffee,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  salt  and  stir  uhtil'smobth. '  If  too  dry  add  more  coffee;  if  too 
moist,  more  sugar.  Dagmar' 'Stevens-.  W.   M. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 


MOCK   POUND  CAKE 

One-half  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  butter,  three 
eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs;  then  alternately  the  milk  and  the  sifted  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir  them  into 
the  mixture  carefully.  Pour  into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Ella  Lawson. 

NUT  CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  (beat  well),  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  (beat  again),  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts; 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Katherine  Kallsen. 

NUT   LOAF   CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and 
three-quarters  cups  flour,  three  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three 
egg  whites,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla;  cream 
butter,  add  sugar  gradually;  mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder; 
add  one-half  of  it  and  the  milk  to  the  sugar  and  butter;  stir  until 
thoroughly  blended,  add  remaining  flour,  nuts  and  vanilla;  fold  in 
stiffly  beaten  whites;   bake  in  loaf  tin  forty  minutes. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE 

•  One  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one  and  two -thirds  cups  flour,  one  and  one -half  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoon  flavoring.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add 
the  egg  beaten  very  light,  then  the  milk  and  flavoring.  Sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  together;  add  these  to  the  mixture  and  beat  well. 
Bake  about  half  an  hour.  Amanda  McCulley. 

PEACH   CAKE 

Sift  together  three  times  two  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  add  to  one  beaten  egg  three-quarters 
cup  milk  and  stir  in;  then  add  one-quarter  cup  melted  butter;  turn 
mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking  pan,  spreading  evenly.  Cut  peaches 
in  halves  or  quarters  and  press  into  the  top  of  cake;  sprinkle  over  a  few 
currants  and  a  little  sugar.  Bake  one-half  hour.  Serve  hot  as  a  pud- 
ding with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  a  hard  sauce  flavored  with  mace  or 
nutmeg.  Jessie  Glad. 

PLAIN    BARLEY   CAKE 

One-quarter  cup  fat,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  sugar,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  milk  or  water,  two  cups  barley  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  of 
raisins;  cream  the  fat  and  sugar  together;  add  beaten  eggs  and  milk, 
add  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  the  raisins;  pour  into  a  shallow 
greased  pan  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

Berga  Reichel,  W.  M, 
Mate  L.  Chester  Chapter. 


26  CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 

PLAIN    BARLEY  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  (use  half  butter  and  half  lard 
if  you  wish),  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two 
cups  barley  flour,  one  cup  raisins;  makes  a  dark  cake. 

Christine  Vorpahl. 

PLAIN   OR   LAYER   CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

POTATO  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes, one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  bar  of 
sweet  chocolate,  grated,  two  level  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;   slow  oven. 

Lena  Engelhardt. 

PRUNE  CAKE 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
prunes  stewed  and  mashed,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour  (barley  or 
white  or  half  of  each),  three  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  pinch 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  bake  in  loaf  or  layers. 

Christine  Vorpahl. 

PRUNE    CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk  with 
one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  it,  one  cup  cooked  stoned  and  cut 
prunes,  one-half  cup  walnuts,  chopped,  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  For  the  frosting  use  one  cup  powdered 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  butter  and  one  beaten  egg  white. 

Louise  McGrath. 

QUICK  CAKE 

One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  four  beaten  yolks,  three 
tablespoons  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla;  beat  whites  stiff  and  add  to  one  cup  sugar,  spread  top 
of  eggs  and  bake  in  slow  oven  fifty  minutes. 

Minnie  E.  Young, 
W.  M.,  Equity  Chapter 

QUICK   CAKE 

One-third  cup  soft  butter,  one  and  one-third  cups  brown  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  one-half  pound  dates  or  one-half  cup 
raisins  or  one-half  cup  nut  meats  (chopped) ;  put  all  ingredients  in  a. 
bowl  and  beat  all  together  three  minutes,  using  a  wooden  cake  spoon; 
bake  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes;  if  ingredients  are  added  separately 
this  cake  will  not  be  a  success,  but  if  directions  are  followed  it  makes 
a  most  satisfactory  cake.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  27 


RICE  SPONGE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  rice  flour,  four  eggs,  two  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  until 
thick;  beat  sugar  into  yolks  and  add  lemon  juice;  fold  in  alternately  the 
beaten  whites  and  the  rice  flour.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  thirty-five 
or  forty  minutes.  Hattie  Melind. 

RHUBARB   CAKE 

One  and  one -half  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  shortening,  one  and 
one -half  cups  stewed  rhubarb,  one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  cups  barley  and  white 
Hour,  equal  parts;  cream  sugar  and  shortening;  add  one  cup  of  the 
rhubard,  then  cinnamon  and  cloves,  flour  and  raisins;  mix  remaider  of 
rhubarb  with  soda  and  add;  beat  well  and  bake  in  loaf  tin  forty-five 
minutes;   slow  oven.  Ida  Basedow. 

SLIM   CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  shortening,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
egg,  one-half  pound  dates,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
soda;    add  a  handful   chopped   nut   meats. 

Bertha  Palmetier,  P.  M. 

SPANISH    BUN 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  butter  (half 
lard  if  you  wish),  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  two  cups  flour  (half 
barley  and  half  white),  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  nuts;  bake  in  shallow 
pan  or  layers.  ■  Christine  Vorpahl. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sour  milk, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  cut 
walnuts,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  This 
makes  two  cakes.  Lena  Engelhardt. 

SPICE  CAKE 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  raisins,  two  cups 
flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  nutmeg,   two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Josephine  Gunderson. 

SPICE   FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  of  hot  water,  two  spoonfuls  of 
lard  (teaspoon),  one-half  package  of  seedless  raisins  (one-pound  pack- 
age), one  cup  of  Sultana  (the  little  white)  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt;  boil  five  minutes;  when  cold  add  three  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla;   bake  forty-five  minutes. 

Mary   Scholton. 
W.  M.,  Ben  Hur  Chapter. 


28  CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 

SPICE   CAKE 
One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk, 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  two  full  cups  of  flour. 

Trina   Pedersen. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  boiling 
water,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  beat  eggs  separately;  beat 
sugar  with  yolks;  then  add  beaten  whites  and  beat  all  five  minutes; 
now  add  flour,  with  the  baking  powder;  last  of  all  add  boiling  water; 
don't  bake  too  fast.  Elenpra  Oppenhagen. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Three  eggs  (beat  whites  real  stiff),  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar 
(beat  in  the  whites,  drop  in  yolks,  and  stir),  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour  (sifted),  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three- 
quarters  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  sift  baking  powder 
and  flour  three  times,  gradually  put  into  beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  when 
flour  is  all  in,  add  boiling  water  gradually,  and  lastly  flavoring. 

Jennie  Rust. 

SPONGE   CAKE 

Eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  three 
tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der, two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  extract;  beat  yolks  thick, 
add  sugar  gradually,  then  water  and  flour;  lastly  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites;  bake  in  unbuffered  tin  in  very  slow  oven  fifty  or  sixty  min- 
utes.    This  makes  two  cakes.  Christine  Jorgensen. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls water,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  beat  yolks,  add  sugar, 
then  water,  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder,  lastly  beaten  whites. 
Makes  two  layers.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Six  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one-half  cup  boiling  water;   beat  yolks,  add  sugar,  then  boiling 
water,   flour   sifted   with   baking    powder,    lastly   beaten   whites.      Makes 
four  layers.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  bake  in  layers. 

Mathilda  Eklund. 

SPONGE  CAKE  WITH  BARLEY  FLOUR 

Beat  four  egg  yolks  very  light;  add  one  cup  sugar,  beating  con- 
stantly; add  one  tablespoon  hot  water  and  one  cup  barley  flour  sifted 
with  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon salt;  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whiter 
of  eggs  and  bake  in  slow  oven  fifty  minutes. 

Maude  RiCe, 
1  W.  M.,  Woodlawn  Chapter. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  28 

SPONGE   CAKE  WITH    ICE   CREAM    FILLING 

Four  eggs  beaten  five  minutes,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one 
cup  boiling  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful 
lemon  extract,  one  teaspoonful  vanila.  Filling:  One  and  one-half  cups 
powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  whipped  cream,  one 
teaspoonful  each  lemon  and  vanilla;  beat  to  a  froth. 

Ollie  Olsen. 

SPONGE     LAYER    CAKE 

Four  eggs,  beaten  five  minutes,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one 
cup  boiling  water,  two  level  tablespoonsful  baking  powder,  two  table- 
spoonsful  lemon  extract,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract.  Frosting:  One 
and  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
whipped  cream,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  exti'act,  one  teaspoonful  lemon 
extract.  Emily  Gauger. 

SPONGE    LOAF    CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  five  eggs,  beat  separate,  one  cup  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonsful  potato  flour;  bake  forty  minutes.  Emily  Gauger. 

STRAWBERRY   FROSTING 

One  cup  strawberries,  one  cup  sugar,  white  of  one  egg;  beat  all 
together  about  five  minutes;  dry  strawberries  well  after  washing. 
Makes  enough  frosting  for  two  large  cakes.  Marie  Larsen. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Yolks  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
scant  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  flavor;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  Bertha  Jasper. 

TO   MAKE  CAKE   FLOUR 

Three  pounds  white  flour,  one  pound  package  cornstarch;  sift  three 
or  four  times  and  use  for  cakes;   excellent  for  sunshine  or  angel  cakes. 

Christine  Vorpahl. 

WAR    CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  package  of  raisins,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, one -half  teaspoonful  cloves;  boil  all  together;  when  cold  add 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  enough  flour  to  make  batter. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour.  Emma  McKinney. 

WAR     CAKE 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  two  cups  raisins,  one  cup  water,  two  table - 
spoonfuls  lard,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  allspice,  pinch  salt;  boil  three  minutes;  when  cold 
add  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  two  cups  Hour,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  sifted  together.  Martha  Kamke. 

WAR  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  fat,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  three  teaspoonfuls  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoonful  cloves,  two  cups  flour. 


30  CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS 

WAR    CAKE— BUTTERLESS,    EGGLESS   AND    MILKLESS 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cup  water,  one-half  cup  raisins,  two  tablespoonsful  lard;  boil  all 
together  for  three  minutes;  when  cool  mix  in  two  cups  flour  sifted  with 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water;  flavor  with  vanilla;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  flat 
pan.  For  frosting  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  one  cup  confec- 
tioner's sugar,  add  two  tablespoonsful  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Lillian    Sriver. 

WHIPPED  CREAM   TORTE 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound  grated  almonds,  one- 
half  pound  white  or  rye  bread  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  grated  lemon  rind;  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  last  of  all.  This  amount  makes  six  layers.  Put 
whipped  cream  between  layers  and  serve.  Anna  A.  Hochspeier. 

WHITE   FROSTING 

One-third  cup  butter  creamed;  add  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  cream;  mix  thoroughly;  then  add  a  little  vanilla 
and  enough  powdered  sugar  to  spread  easily. 


CAKES    AND    FROSTINGS  31 


32  FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 

Clean 


Your  house  with 

Semdac 

LIQUID    GLOSS 

Save  work,  trouble,  money  and  nerves! 

SEMDAC  is  a  superior  cleaning  and  polishing 
agent  for  furniture,  woodwork,  hardwood  floors 
and  all  finished  wood  surfaces. 

It  cleans  thoroughly  and  quickly,  and  leaves 
the  finished  surface  with  a  fine  polish  such  as 
it  had  when  the  piece  was  new. 

As  a  dusting  agent,  SEMDAC  has  no  equal.  A 
little  of  this  wonderful  polish  sprinkled  on  a 
dust  cloth  and  allowed  to  spread  throughout  the 
fabric,  makes  a  perfect  duster.  With  it  you 
may  pick  up  every  particle  of  dust  and  be  rid 
of  it.  It  collects  dust  but  does  not  scatter  it. 
Get  a  can  of  SEMDAC  today.  Try  it  on  the 
furniture  and  note  the  wonderful  effect. 

Most  dealers  carry  it.  If  yours  does  not,  write 
to  this  office  and  we  will  see  that  you  are  sup- 
plied. 

Standard    Oil    Company 

(Indiana) 
910  So.   Michigan  Avenue  Phone  Harrison  9200 

CHICAGO 


CANDIES  3?, 


Candies 

"Sweets  to  the  Sweet/' 
FUDGE  CANDY 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
walnut,  enough  chocolate  to  suit  taste;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  beat 
until  cool  and  pour  on  buttered  pan. 

Elenora  Oppenhagen. 

CALIFORNIA    WALNUT    CANDY    (PENOCHE) 

One  cup  broken  walnuts,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
butter  size  of  walnut,  pinch  of  salt;  boil  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until 
firm  when  tried  in  cold  water;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir;  when 
partially  cooled  add  the  vanilla  and  walnuts;  beat  until  creamy  and 
pour  into  buttered  pans  to  cool. 

Alice  E.  Soukup. 

MAPLE   FUDGE 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  granulated  sugar, 
three-quarters  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  cook  until  it  hardens 
in  a  glass  of  cold  water,  add  one-half  cup  walnuts  last  and  beat  until 
it  is  not  too  hard  to  spread  in  a  buttered  pan. 

Myrtle  Lundquist. 

CHOCOLATE   FUDGE 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
butter;  cook  ten  minutes,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  take  off  the  fire 
and  add  pinch  of  baking  soda,  one-half  cup  nuts;    beat  all  until  hard. 

Myrtle  Lundquist. 

.  SEA    FOAM    CANDY 

One  and  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  Karo  syrup,  one-third 
cup  water,  a  little  salt,  white  of  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  nuts;  boil  sugar,  water  and  Karo  for  fifteen  minutes; 
pour  slowly  on  the  white  of  egg,  beaten,  with  the  salt;  continue  to  beat 
until  nearly  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  form;  then  add  flavor  and  nuts; 
beat  until  stiff  and  put  on  waxed  paper.  Marie  Egkild. 

COCOANUT  CANDY 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  butter, 
one-third  cup  cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla;  melt  butter,  add 
sugar  and  milk;  heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  twelve  minutes;  remove 
from  fire  and  add  cocoanut  and  vanilla;  beat  until  creamy  and  pour  on 
buttered  dish.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH   CANDY 

Mix  one  cup  water  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  pour  it  over 
one  pound  brown  sugar;  cook  in  saucepan  ten  minutes;  add  four  table- 
spoons butter  and  boil  (slowly)  without  stirring  until  brittle  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  buttered  tins,  mark  off  in  squares 
and  set  aside  till  hard.  Coralie  Goodall. 


34 


CANDIES 


I  AVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


If  You  Want  A  Good  Fitting  Corset  Call  at  the 

FULLERTON  CORSET  SHOP 

MADAME   ROSIN,  Prop. 

CORSETS  GUARANTEED 

Phone  Belmont  6768  3324  FULLERTON   AVENUE 

We   also    carry    Waists,    Underwear,    Hosiery    and    Gloves 
Corsets  Fitted  Free  of  Charge 

M.    WILSON 

Successor  to  MRS.    NERGARD 
3423  FULLERTON   AVENUE 

Announces  an  Entire  New  Stock  of 

MILLINERY 

Hats   Remodeled 

Belmont  5494 

The  Olympia 

3326   Fullerton   Avenue.   Cor.   Kimball 
HOME  MADE   ICE  CREAM  AND  CANDIES 

BEST  OF   EVERYTHING  . 

IN   MEN'S  AND   BOY'S 

FURNISHINGS  AND   HATS 

R.  H.  JORGENSEN 

Phone  Albany  1360 

3400   Fullerton   Avenue  CHICAGO 

Phone  Belmont  1637 


TAT-^,       T      TAnCn»i    '    IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIliyi 
Manufacturer  of  VY  III.     }•    J  CllbCIl  FUR 

FINE  FURS       v   TJ   v    ^    T    J?    <B      STORAGE 

3311   Fullerton  Avenue,   CHICAGO 


36  CANNED   FRUITS   AND   VEGETABLES 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

"Enough's  a  feast;  eat  some,  and  bottle  up  the  rest." 
CANNED   RHUBARB 

Pare  rhubarb  and  cut  in  one  inch  pieces.  Pack  in  a  jar,  put  under 
cold  water  faucet  and  let  water  run  twenty  minutes;  then  screw  on 
cover;  rhubarb  canned  in  this  way  has  often  been  known  to  keep  a  year. 

Fannie  M.  Farmer. 

CANNED  TOMATOES 

Wipe  tomatoes,  cover  with  boiling  water  a  few  minutes  so  that 
skins  may  be  removed;  cat  in  pieces  and  cook  until  thoroughly  scalded; 
skim  often  during  cooking;  fill  jars.  Fannie  Farmer. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

Twenty  pounds  Concord  grapes,  four  quarts  water;  cook  until  grapes 
are  free  from  seeds;  strain  and  add  three  pounds  sugar;  boil  twenty 
minutes  and  bottle  tightly.  Hannah  Ely. 

CANNED   PEARS 

Pare,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  core;  put  in  cold  water,  so  they  will 
not  discolor;  make  syrup  of  one  pint  sugar,  to  two  pints  water;  bring  to 
a  boil;  drain  pears  and  place  in  syrup;  boil  until  tender;  place  fruit  in 
hot  jars,  cover  with  syrup  and  seal. 

Caroline  Koford. 

CANNED   BERRIES 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  sugar  to  one  quart  of  water;  when  boiling 
put  in  fruit,  let  come  to  a  boil;  stir  gently;  let  boil  up  once  or  twice; 
can  at  once;  blackberries  need  to  be  boiled  a  little  longer  than  straw- 
berries or  raspberries.  Hannah  Ely. 

CANNED   PLUMS 

Wash,  stem  plums  and  make  a  few  holes  in  each  one  with  a  tooth- 
pick; make  syrup  of  one  pint  sugar  to  two  pints  water;  when  boiling 
add  plums  and  boil  in  syrup  until  tender;    can  and  seal. 

Caroline  Koford. 

TO   DRY   FRUITS  AT   HOME 

Take  ripe  apples,  core  them  and  slice  in  six  slices,  string  them  on 
heavy  cord  and  suspend  near  ceiling  in  kitchen;  will  dry  thoroughly  in 
from  ten  days  to  two  weeks.  Quarter  pears  and  string  them  on  strong 
linen  thread  by  means  of  a  large  darning  needle,  and  suspend  near  ceil- 
ing; will  be  dry  in  about  fifteen  days.  Put  fruit  away  in  muslin  bags 
in  cool,  dry  place.  I  have  tried  this  and  it  was  very  successful,  saving 
sugar,  heat  and  glasses.  Don't  put  too  much  fruit  on  a  string,  because 
it  is  very  heavy. 

Marie   Seiter,  W.   M.  Hyde  Park  Chapter. 


CANNED   FRUITS    AND   VEGETABLES  37 


38  FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


Do  Your  Banking   With 


Raymond  G.  Kimbell  &  Co. 

■•:      3538  TULLEKTON  A  VENUE      :: 

GLNLRAL  BANKING 


vo  on  Savings 


CHECKING  ACCOUNTS  INVITED 


Kuehn  Brothers,  inc. 


Retail 


MEATS 

2142-46  MILWAUKEE  AVENUE 

Tel.  Humboldt  9335 


4816  Milwaukee  Ave.  3854  Fullerton  Ave. 

Tel.  Irving  9751  Tel.  Albany  572 

3520  Armitage  Ave.  4142  Armitage  Ave.  3240  Armitage  Ave 

Tel.  Albany  4666  Tel.  Albany  7024  Tel.  Belmont  7832 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS  39 

Cookies  and  Doughnuts 

"  JTis  substantial  happiness  to  eat." 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES 

Heat  one  quart  syrup  and  two  cups  lard;  add  one  cup  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  ground  cloves;  add  three  scant  tea- 
spoons baking  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  add  a  little  nut- 
meg or  cardemom  and  enough  flour  to  roll. 

Marie  Egkild. 

COCOANUT   ROCKS 

Whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cocoanut, 
three  cups  corn  flakes,  vanilla  to  taste;  drop  by  spoonful  on  pans  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Cornelia  Beazley. 

COOKIES  THAT  ARE  AS  GOOD  OR  BETTER  THAN  MACAROONS 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
shredded  cocoanut,  one -half  teaspoon  almond  flavoring  and  five  cups 
corn  flakes;  stir  together  well  and  drop  with  teaspoon  on  tins  which 
have  been  greased;  bake  in  slow  oven  for  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Dorothea  Masters, 
W.  M.,  Cornerstone  Chapter. 

CORN    FLAKE  AND  COCOANUT   KISSES 

Three  whites  beaten,  add  one  cup  granulated  sugar  gradually,  two 
cups  corn  flakes,  one  cup  cocoanut;  drop  by  teaspoonful  on  buttered 
tins.  Milada  Koren, 

W.  M.  Prague  Chapter. 

DATE   ROCKS 

One  and  one -half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  three  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one -half 
teaspoonful  cloves,  one-fourth  pound  English  walnuts  shelled,  one  pound 
dates;  cut  the  nuts  rather  large;  mix  the  baking  soda  with  a  table - 
spoonful  of  hot  water;   drop  on  unbuffered  tins. 

Alice  Brons, 
W.  M.,  Astrea  Chapter. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Two  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  three-quarters  cup  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  three-quarter 
teaspoon  soda.  Sift  all  the  above  together.  Work  one-half  tablespoon 
butter  or  shortening  into  the  above.  Then  add  one -half  cup  sour  milk 
which  has  been  mixed  with  one  beaten  egg.  Roll  out  one-half  inch 
thick.     Cut  out  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

DROPPED   DOUGHNUTS 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-third  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  one-third  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  egg  (beaten  separately) ;  mix  and  sift 
dry  ingredients;  add  milk  to  beaten  egg  and  cut  and  fold  into  flour  until 
it  is  mixed;  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  into  hot  grease;  when  each  doughnut 
comes  to  the  top  turn  it  over;  by  doing  this  it  forms  the  shape  of  a 
ball;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  after  placing  on  brown  paper. 

•  Nellie  Barling.    '• 


40  COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS 

GINGER  SNAPS 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  shortening,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  pepper,  flour; 
mix  ingredients,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  add  as  much  flour 
as  can  be  stirred  in;  pinch  off  small  pieces  and  drop  on  greased  pan, 
leaving  space  for  spreading;  leave  in  tin  until  cool. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

GRANDMA   HILL'S  COOKIES 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs, 
four  tablespoonfuls  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  cup 
nut  meats  and  one-half  cup  raisins  chopped,  three  cups  flour. 

Lillian  Hill  Taylor, 
W.  M.  Siloam  Chapter. 

HONEY  COOKIES 

One-q*uartei  cup  lard  or  butter  heated,  with  three-quarters  cup  of 
honey,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  mixed  spices;  when  cool  add  one  well- 
beaten  egg,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  and  two  cups  flour,  into  which  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one  level  teaspoonful  soda  have  been  sifted; 
add  more  flour  until. stiff  enough  to  roll;  cut  in  shapes  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

LEMON   COOKIES 
(These  are  delicious) 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  six  yolks,  four  whites,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  on 
floured  towel;  beat  the  two  remaining  whites  (not  too  stiff,  in  fact  just 
a  little  frothy),  brush  over  tops  of  cookies  before  baking. 

Milada  Koren, 
W.  M.,  Prague  Chapter. 

MACAROONS 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff;  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  ten  cents 
of  walnuts  (chopped  fine),  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one-half 
cup  raisins  chopped  fine  and  one-half  cup  cocoanut,  two  cups  of  corn 
flakes;  mix  all  together;  drop  on  greased  pan,  and  bake  a  few  minutes 
in   moderate   oven.  Christine  Ericksen. 

MOTHERS'  COOKIES 

One  pound  lard  or  half  lard  and  half  butter,  one  and  one -half  cups 
sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  milk;  mix  all  this 
well;  put  on  floured  board  and  knead  until  like  a  good  rich  piecrust; 
cut  into  forms  and  bake.  Laura     Andersen. 

NEW  COOKIES 

Whites  four  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cocoanut,  one 
cup  chopped  nuts,  four  cups  corn  flakes;  stir  and  drop  from  spoon; 
leave  in  pan  until  cool;   slow  oven.  Isabel  Agard. 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS  41 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  six  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  two  cups 
flour  with  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  oatmeal,  one  cup  chopped  raisins, 
one  cup  chopped  nuts;   drop  on  buttered  pans  with  spoon;   bake  slowly. 

Anna  A.  Hochspeier. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 
Wartime   Recipe 

One  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  shortening",  one  cup  sour  milk, 
one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  cups  flour,  two  cups 
oatmeal;  drop  from  spoon;  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 

Anna  Scheer. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter  and  lard  ijiixed,  two  eggs,  one  level 
teaspoon  salt,  one  scant  teaspoon  baking  soda;  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
one  cup  sultana  raisins,  two  cups  oatm^ayone  cup  flour;  drop  by  tea- 
spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins.  Minnie  Krempel. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

Three-quarters  cup  shortening,  lard  and  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  two  and  one -half  cups 
flour,  three-quarters  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  one  tablespoonful  cinna- 
mon, one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  nuts,  two  cups  oatmeal.  Cream 
shortening  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  milk,  flour  and  soda  sifted  together, 
then  add  cinnamon,  oatmeal,  raisins  and  nuts  and  mix  well;  drop  into 
pan  with  spoon.  Anna  Puerkel. 

OATMEAL   DROPS 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter  (part  lard),  three 
eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  soda, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  five  cups  oatmeal,  four  cups  barley 
flour,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  large  cup  raisins;  drop  with  teaspoon 
on  buttered  pan.  Christine  Vorpahl. 

OATMEAL   MACAROONS 

One-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
egg,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  condensed  milk,  four  cups  oatmeal,  one 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Klenora  Oppenhagen. 

OATMEAL   ROCKS 

Beat  one  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  two 
cups  uncooked  oatmeal,  two  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  chopped 
raisins,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  baking  soda;  mix 
and  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  greased  baking  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  ten  minutes.  Marie  Larsen. 


42  COOKIES  AND   DOUGHNUTS 

PEANUT  COOKIES 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-quarter  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one- 
half  cup  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk,  one-half  cup  chopped  peanuts, 
one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and  one  level  teaspoonful  soda  have  been  sifted; 
dry  ingredients,  cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs,  add  milk  and  dry 
ingredients;  peanuts  and  flavoring;  batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to  drop 
from  spoon;  bake  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  If  preferred  half  the  peanuts 
may  be  put  on  top  of  cookies.  Mabel  Petersen. 

RUSSIAN   ARKS 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  chopped  dates, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  one-quarter  cup  water,  one- 
quarter  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour;  drop  on  greased  tins  in  small  quan- 
tities;  bake  in  quick  oven.  Anna  Swager. 

SOUR  CREAM    FRIED  CAKES 

One  cup  sour  milk  or  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut, 
two  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  baking  soda 
in  one-quarter  cup  hot  water  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg;  cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  egg.  salt,  cream  and  flour,  then  baking  soda;  work  mixture 
into  a  light  dough,  turn  on  a  well-floured  board,  roll  about  one-half 
inch  thick  and  use  cutter;    fry  in   deep  hot  lard  until  a  golden  brown. 

Alice  E.  Soukup. 

SOUR  CREAM    PIE 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup 
sour  cream  or  milk  (cream  is  best)  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 


Camille  Kirby 


SUGAR   COOKIES 


Cream  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  add  two  eggs,  three  cups 
flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon; 
roll  thin,  spread  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Hannah  Ely. 

VANILLA  COOKIES 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  and  one- 
quarter  cups  flour,  pinch  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one- 
quarter  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Hazel  Larsen. 

WAR  COOKIES 

One  cup  C.  sugar,  one-half  cup  shortening,  one-half  cup  butter- 
milk, one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  egg  well  beaten,  nutmeg,  one  cup  white 
flour,  one  cup  barley  flour;    roll  with  white  flour;   salt. 

Isabel   Agard. 


COOKIES  AND  DOUGHNUTS  13 


44 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


Original 

WA  D  E 

WINDOW  SHADE  WORKS 

LACE  SHADES  MADE  FROM  YOUR  OLD  LACE  CURTAINS 

WE   MAKE   Draperies,   Lace   Shades,   Puffed   Shades, 

Canvas  Porch  Shades,  Etc. 

WE   CLEAN   PERFECTLY    Everything   that  goes   on   your   WINDOW, 

also  Rugs  and  Carpets 
Telephone   Belmont  9559  2628  Milwaukee  Avenue 

Phone  Belmont  3345 


3124  Logan  Blvd 


asEsiz® 


Tel.   Belmont  6934 


A.   BUSCH,  Mgr. 


SUPER  3 

DYEING  AND  CLEANING  CO. 

Ladies'  and  Gents'   Garments,  Oriental  Rugs 
Carpets  and  Draperies 


3129  LOGAN    BLVD. 


Play   Your  Victrola  While   You're   Cooking 

We  Carry  a  Complete  Stock  of  Records  and  Machines 

BENT'S  VICTROLA  CENTER 

3137   Logan   Blvd. 


MITAGE, 

JOHN  S.  EDWASOa  frav 

Milwaukee  and  AnnWu<i»  Are* 


EGGS  45 


Eggs 


"Oh,  eggs,  within  thine  oval  shell, 
What  palate  tickling  joys  do  dwell." 

DEVILED    EGGS 

Boil  eggs  hard;  cut  in  halves  lengthwise;  remove  yolks;  to  the  yolks 
add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  melted  butter,  mustard  and  vinegar;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  refill  whites;  sprinkle  with  paprika;  garnish  with  chopped 
parsley.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

EGG  GEMS   (MEAT  SAVER) 

Mix  one  cup  cold  chopped  meat  with  one  cup  bread  crumbs;  add 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  enough  milk  to  bind 
together  well;  fill  well-greased  gem  pans;  break  an  egg  on  top  of  each; 
season  and  bake  eight  minutes.     Nice  way  to  use  left  over  meat. 

Olga  Lund. 

CREAMED   EGGS 

Boil  eggs  hard,  separate' whites  and  yolks;  make  a  cream  sauce  and 
stir  in  the  chopped  whites;  break  yolks  fine  with  fork  and  spread  on  top. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

FRENCH   OMELET 

Beat  four  eggs  slightly;  add  four  tablespoons  milk,  salt  and  pepper: 
put  two  tablespoons  butter  in  omelet  pan,  and  when  melted  put  in  egg 
mixture;  roll  and  turn  on  hot  platter.  Maude  Rice. 

W.  M.,  Woodlawn  Chapter. 

EGGS  A   LA   KING 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter;  in  this  cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes 
one-fourth  pound  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced,  and  one-half  green  pepper, 
cut  in  pieces;  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  mix 
well;  add  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  one- 
quarter  cup  milk  to  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  stir  in;  add  eight 
hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced,  and  stir  carefully  until  hot;  add  one  teaspoon 
lemon  juice  and  serve;   a  delicious  luncheon  dish. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

EGGS  A   LA  GOLDENROD 


Cook  four  egg1^m|L, hard ;  melt  one  tablespoon  butter;  add  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper;  mix  until 
smooth;  add  one  cup  milk  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes;  press  egg  yolks 
through  strainer  and  sprinkle  over  slices  of  toast;  chop  egg  whites  and 
add  to  sauce  and  pour  over  toast;  garnish  with  parsley 

Freda  Renk. 

Grand  Rep. 
EGGS  IN  TOMATOES 

Cut  the  top  from  a  number  of  Arm  tomatoes;  scoop  out  seeds,  turn 
upside  down  to  drain;  dust  each  one  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley 
and  carefully  drop  in  a  raw  egg;  put  on  each  a  bit  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper;  arrange  in  a  shallow,  buttered  pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven 
until  eggs  are  set.  Hannah  Bly. 


46 


EGGS 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES  47 


E/very  Day 
A  Bargain  Day  at 

DOMLL'S 


N.    W.   SIDE   LEADING 


Furniture  Store 

Complete  Home  Outfitters 


Deimel  Furniture  Co. 

2542-48   North   Avenue — near    Maplewood 

Open  Thursday  and  Saturday  Evenings 
Phone   Humboldt   523 


48  FISH 

\ 


Fish 


"From   the  rude  seas  enraged  and  foaming  mouth." 
BAKED    FISH 

Wash  fish  carefully  and  wipe  dry;  rub  thoroughly  with  salt;  pre- 
pare the  dressing  by  mixing  one  cupful  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  parsley,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  chopped  onion,  one-half  dozen  oysters.  Fill  the 
fish  with  this  mixture,  overlap  the  edges  and  pin  with  toothpicks;  cut. 
incisions  across  the  back  two  inches  apart  and  insert  strips  of  salt  pork; 
dredge  with  flour  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound.  Tillie  Dyer. 

BAKED    FISH    IN    CREAM 

Dress  a  three-pound  fish;  season  and  roll  in  flour;  chop  two  large 
onions  and  stuff  fish  with  them;  put  in  dripping  pan  and  pour  over  one 
pint  milk  or  cream;    bake  until  done.  Mabel  Baker,   P.  M. 

BAKED   TROUT   OR   WHITEFISH 

Get  a  large  fish  weighing  about  five  pounds.  Scale,  wash  carefully 
and  wipe  dry.  Moisten  one  cup  bread  crumbs  with  water,  add  a  small 
onion  and  one-half  stalk  celery  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  butter; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  about  ten  minutes;  stuff  fish  with 
this  mixture;  rub  with  salt,  place  in  dripping  pan  into  which  has  been 
put  two  tablespoonsful  lard  and  a  cup  of  hot  water;  lay  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork  on  fish  and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours.  Sauce:  Brown  two 
tablespoonsful  flour  in  one  tablespoonful  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful 
cream  or  milk,  salt  and  pepper  and  six  or  seven  capers;  add  boiling 
water  until  consistency  of  gravy  and  pour  over  fish  just  before  serving. 

Caroline  Koford. 

BOILED    FISH 

Slice  one  onion  and  put  in  kettle  with  enough  water  to  boil  fish;  add 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  twelve  peppercorns,  twelve  whole  allspice, 
three  or  four  small  bay  leaves,  a  little  salt;  boil  till  onions  are  d  me; 
strain  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  a 
little  water;  boil  fish  slowly  until  done;  add  chopped  parsley. 

Hattie  Melind. 

CADILLAC  CRAB   MEAT   (IN    INDIVIDUAL   BAKING   DISHES) 

Cook  three  tablespoonsful  butter  with  two  teaspoonsful  finely 
chopped  onion  for  three  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  four  table- 
spoonsful flour  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  curry  powder;  then  pour  on 
gradually  one  and  one-half  cupful  chicken  stock,  stirring  all  the  time; 
bring  to  boiling  point,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cupful  crab  meat,  and 
season  with  salt.  Arrange  in  buttered  individual  ramekins  or  baking 
dishes,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Let  stand  under  fire  in  broiler  oven 
for  a  minute  or  two  to  melt  and  brown  the  cheese.     Serve  at  once. 

Margaret  Williams. 


PISH  49 

CREAMED  TUNA   FISH 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  gradu- 
ally two  cups  milk;  stir  until  it  boils;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add 
tuna  fish,  which  has  been  picked  into  small  pieces.  Serve  on  toast  or 
in  patty  shells. 

FINNAN    HADDIE 

Parboil  the  fish,  then  carefully  pick  meat  from  bones.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  with  two  tablespoonsful  better,  two  tablespoonsful  flour, 
one  pint  milk,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  add  one  raw  egg  and 
one  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  small;  put  in  fish,  heat  again.  Serve  on 
hot  toast.     Nice  for  chafing  dish.  Marie  Baumgarten. 

FISH    BAKED   WITH    POTATOES 

Halibut,  haddock,  fresh  cod  or  other  firm  fish  may  be  used  in  a 
solid  piece  not  less  than  two  inches  thick.  For  a  two-pound  slice  pare 
five  potatoes,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  boil  ten  minutes;  place  fish 
in  a  large  shallow  baking  dish  (earthenware  is  best),  and  surround  with 
parboiled  potatoes,  cut  side  down;  make  a  thin  sauce  with  three  scant 
cups  of  milk,  four  tablespoonsful  each  of  butter  and  flour  with  salt 
and  black  pepper;  place  a  bay  leaf  and  sprig  of  parsley  on  fish,  cover 
all  with  sauce  and  bake  forty  minutes,  basting  twice  with  sauce. 

Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

FISH  CROQUETTES 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  fish,  minced  fine;  two  cups  hot  mashed  potato, 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  hot  milk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Combine  all  the  ingredients,  mix 
thoroughly  and  let  cool.  Form  into  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat;  drain  on  brown  paper.  If  canned  salmon  is 
used  substitute  bread  crumbs  for  the  potatoes  and  an  extra  egg,  omitting 
the  milk  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

FISH    CROQUETTES 

Put  two  tablespoonsful  butter  in  pan,  stir  in  two  tablespoonsful 
flour,  add  one  cup  milk  and  cook  until  thick;  add  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard  and  two 
cups  any  flaked  fish,  canned  or  left-over  cold  fish.  When  cold  form 
into  croquettes,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  deep  fat; 
serve  with  tomato  sauce;   garnish  with  parsley. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

OYSTERS  A   LA  CREOLE 

Two  tablespoonsful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  two  slices 
chopped  onion,  one  pint  oysters,  one  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  one  table- 
spoonful parsley,  cut  fine.  Melt  butter;  add  onion,  and  stir  until  nicely 
browned;  add  flour,  then  add  tomatoes.  When  the  sauce  thickens  add 
the  oysters,  drained,  and  cook  until  the  edges  curl.  Season  with  Tabasco 
pepper-sauce  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Serve  on  toast  if  preferred. 
This  is  nice  made  in  a  chafing  dish.  Marie  Baumgarten. 


50  FISH 

SALMON    LOAF 

One  can  salmon,  drain,  chop  fine;  add  yolks  of  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  one-half  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  little 
chopped  parsley;  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  add  last;  bake  in  but- 
tered pan  one-half  hour.  Sauce  for  loaf:  One  cup  sweet  milk  (added 
to  the  juice  of  the  salmon),  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
flour;  cook  till  thick;  add  one  egg  beaten  light;   pour  over  loaf. 

Hannah  Ely. 

SALMON    LOAF 

To  one  can  salmon  drained  and  mashed,  add  one  and  one-half 
cupful  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  press  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish : 
bake  until  nicely  brown;  serve  on  a  platter  with  white  sauce,  into 
which  one  small  can  of  peas  has  been  stirred  and  a  can  of  tomato  soup, 
bay  leaf,  allspice,  cloves  and  butter. 

Marie  J.  Konzelman. 

SALMON    LOAF 

One  can  salmon  or  large  can  tuna  fish;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  flour;  put  in  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Clara  Swanson. 

STEAMED   SALMON 

One  can  salmon,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one-half  cup 
fine  bread  crumbs,  four  eggs  beaten  light,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped 
parsley;  chop  fish,  add  butter,  beat  bread  crumbs  into  eggs,  stir 
together  and  put  in  buttered  mold;  steam  one  hour;  make  a  sauce  of 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  prepared  mustard,  five  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  one -half  teaspoonful  salt,  red  pepper;  beat  eggs  light  and  mix 
all  together:   cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 

Christine  Jorgensen. 

TUNA   CROQUETTES 

Add  to  one  can  tuna  fish,  three  rolled  crackers  and  one  beaten  egg; 
season;  shape  into  croquettes;  dip  in  well-beaten  eggs,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry.  Coralie  Goodall. 


FISH 


51 


52 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


Baggage 
Deliveries 

k  l  1 J  E  ARE  accommodating  residents 
I?  Tl  of  the  large  territory  served  by 
Jy^J    our    Storage     "Warehouses    -with 

'  an    unusual   character   of  rapid 

express  service,  particularly  adapted  to 
the  needs  of  this  section  of  the  city.  "We 
use  Motor  Vehicles  exclusively  in  this 
department,  and  our  regular  motor 
trips  to  and  from  Depots  and  Docks 
insure  "on-time"  deliveries  'which  save 
our  patrons  "worry  and  annoyance. 

ALL 
Phones   Albany   2345 

Connecting  All  Warehouses  And   Departments 

"Whenever  you  have  trunks  going  to  or 
coming  from  the  Depots  or  Docks,  or 
have  need  of  express  service  for  trans- 
fers of  Baggage  or  other  articles  to  any 
section  of  the  city  or  suburbs,  send  the 
call  to  DAVID.  This  is  a  special  depart- 
ment of  our  Moving  and  Storage  busi- 
ness, and  all  orders  receive  an  attention 
that  results  in  your  satisfaction. 


PATRONIZE 

OUR 

ADVERTISERS 


To  the  business  men 
whose  ads  appear  herein 
we  can  only  say  "thank 
you."  We  would  respect- 
fully ask  our  members 
and  friends  to  patronize 
these,  our  advertisers,  and 
so,  in  a  small  way,  repay 
them  for  their  courtesy 
to  us. 

Dagmar  Stevens, 
Mabel  Baker, 

Solicitors  for.  Ads. 


Milwaukee  &  Kedzie  Aves. 
Lawrence  &  Sawyer  Aves. 


Phone    Belmont  4161 


ESTABLISHED  1906 


Frank  J.  Svoboda 

Merchant    Tailor 


2629   MILWAUKEE  AVENUE 


Logan  Square 


GRIDDLE    CAKES   AND   WAFFLES  53 

Griddle  Cakes  and  Waffles 

"Oh,  weary  mothers,  mixing  dough, 
Don't  you  wish  that  food  would  grow? 
Your  lips  ivould  smile  I  know  to  see, 
A   cookie  bush  or  pancake  tree!' 

POTATO   PANCAKES 

Grate    one-half   dozen    medium-sized    raw    potatoes,    add    two    eg 
three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  salt  to  taste;    fry  in  deep  fat 
hot  griddle.  Henrietta  Baumgarten. 

WAFFLES 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  add  two  eggs  and 
enough  milk  to  make  thin  batter;  also  add  one  tablespoonful  melted 
butter;  have  waffle  iron  very  hot,  grease  well  with  suet.  This  mixture 
is  equally  good  for  griddle  cakes. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

CANNED  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Beat  one  egg  until  light,  add  one  cup  canned  corn  and  one-half  cup 
milk;  sift  together  one  cup  flower,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt;  stir  the  liquid  into  the  dry  ingredients;  bake  on  a 
hot,  well-greased  griddle.  A  nice  way  to  use  corn  left  over  from  the 
night  before.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

RICE   GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Beat  two  eggs  well,  add  two  cups  cooked  rice;  sift  one-half  cup 
Hour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
baking  powder  together;  add  alternately  with  one-half  cup  milk;  fry 
in  hot  drippings.     Nice  for  breakfast.  Caroline  Koford. 

SOUTHERN   WAFFLES 

One  pint  flour,  one  pint  sour  cream,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda;  sift  flour  and  salt;  add  eggs  and  beat  well;  dissolve  soda  in  sour 
cream  and  add;   have  waffle  iron  hot  and  grease  well. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

OATMEAL  GRIDDLE   CAKES 

To  one  cup  cooked  oatmeal,  mashed  fine  with  fork,  add  one  and 
one -half  cups  sweet  milk,  one  egg  beaten  lightly,  one  cup  graham  flour 
sifted  with  one  and  one-half  level  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Leonora  Gilmour. 

STALE  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Soak  stale  bread  over  night  in  one  quart  sour  milk  or  buttermilk; 
in  the  morning  add  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
little  salt;  add  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  flour  enough  to  make  batter  and 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

CORN    FRITTERS 

Beat  two  eggs  light,  add  one  can  corn  and  two-thirds  cup  milk, 
one  scant  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder;   mix  well;   fry  in  hot  fat  like  griddle  cakes. 

May  Mann. 


54 


GRIDDLE    CAKES   AND  WAFFLES 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES  55 


"<%  Treat  Indeed" 


Chapell's  Quality 
Ice  Cream 


Office  and    Factory, 
TELEPHONE    ARMITAGE    2747  1901-23     Webstd    Aveillie 


Reliable  Prescription  Service       Eastman  Kodak  Supplies 

A.  PETTLRSLN 


CUT  KATE  DRUGGIST 

3144  W.   North   Avenue,  4  Doors   East  of  Kedzie  CHICAGO 

TflE  OVERLAND  WILLYS  KNIGHT 

Phone  Belmont  6190 

STANDARD  MOTOR  CAR  COMPANY 

Distributors  of 

AUTOMOBILES 

DAVID  GORDON,   Pres.  3301-3303  W.   North   Avenue,  CHICAGO 


56  ICE    CREAM    AND   ICES 

Ice  Cream  and  Ices 

"Tut,  tut,  thou  art  all  like  ice;  thy  kindness  freezes." 

CRANBERRY   SHERBET 

Boil  one  quart  cranberries  in  three  and  one -half  cups  water  for 
six  minutes,  strain  through  coarse  cheesecloth,  add  sugar  to  taste;  stir 
until  dissolved,  and  when  cold  add  strained  juice  of  one  and  one-half 
lemons  and  a  little  jello,  and  freeze. 

Dessie  Reynolds. 

FRUIT   PUNCH 

Mix  together  juice  of  seven  lemons  and  three  oranges,  one  cup  pine- 
apple juice,  one-half  cup  prune  juice,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  cups 
strawberry  syrup,  one  pint  tea,  three  pints  water;  put  into  refrigeratoi 
and  chill  thoroughly;  other  fruit  juices  may  be  added  or  substituted; 
more  water  may  be  needed.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

GRAPE  JUICE   PUNCH 

One  pint  grape  juice,  one  quart  water,  juice  of  three  lemons,  one 
orange  sliced  thin,  few  slices  of  pineapple;  place  the  fruit  in  a  punch 
bowl,  sprinkle  over  with  powdered  sugar  and  allow  to  stand  two  hours; 
then  add  water,  more  sugar  if  desired  and  grape  juice;  serve  cold. 

Marie  J.  Konzelman. 

GRAPE   SHERBET 

Boil  two  cups  sugar  with  one  quart  water  for  ten  minutes;  add  two 
cups  grape  juice,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  freeze. 

Marie  Baumgarten. 

ORANGE   ICE 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  water  and  one  pint  sugar;  boil  fifteen 
minutes  and  add  one  pint  orange  juice,  one-quarter  pint  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  of  orange  and  one  lemon;   freeze;   will  serve  twelve  persons. 

PHILADELPHIA   ICE  CREAM 

One  quart  thin  cream  or  half  cream  and  half  milk,  three-quarters 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  vanilla;  mix  ingredients  and  freeze;  to  make 
a  fruit  ice  cream  add  one  pint  crushed  pineapple  peaches,  strawberries 
or  raspberries,  slightly  sweetened,  instead  of  vanilla,  when  thoroughly 
chilled;  then  finish  freezing  Coralie  L.  Goodall. 

PINEAPPLE   ICE 

Make  a  syrup  of  four  cups  water  and  two  cups  sugar;  boil  fifteen 
minutes;  add  one  can  grated  pineapple  and  juice  of  six  lemons;  cool  and 
add  four  cups  ice  water;  freeze;  will  serve  twelve  persons. 

Mabel"  Baker,  P.  M. 


ICE    CREAM    AND   ICES  57 


58  FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 

Albert   G.   Lavy 

Diamonds,  Watches  and  Jewelry 

2015  Milwaukee  Avenue, 
Telephone  Humboldt  2454  CHICAGO 


Enlargements  from  any  Photo  Telephone  Humboldt  890 

Picture  Frames  Res.  Phone,  Humboldt  2589 

EDWARD   FOX 

PHOTOGRAPHER 

2003  Milwaukee  Avenue 
Cor.  Armitage  Avenue  CHICAGO 


HENRY  C.  ECKART 

iiiii':iiHm:iiiiini:iiiimiiU!ii:m!iiii;i!i:iiiiuiii!!uiiiiiim;mi;miiiiiii 

PHARMACIST 

3201    Armitage  Avenue,  Corner  Kedzie  Avenue 
Telephone,  Belmont  6945  CHICAGO 


Phone,  Belmont  3350 


F.    J.    SENGE 


Ladies'  Ready-to- Wear  Garments 

Men's   Furnishings  and 

General   Dry  Goods 

3111-13-15  Armitage  Avenue  CHICAGO 

Phone,   Belmont  2927 

FREDERICK  LARK 

Dealer  in 

Stationery,   Confectionery,   Toys,   Sporting   Goods 

and   Periodicals 

3053  Armitage  Avenue 
Cigars,  Tobacco  and   Smokers'  Articles  CHICAGO 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


63 


Phone 

2656 


RECIPE 

"For  Good,  Old  Fashioned 
Foot  Comfort" 

Take  one  pair  tired,  worn- 
out  feet,  fit  perfectly  with 
a  nice  soft  kid  shoe,  black, 
brown  or  grey,  high  or  low 
heels. 

"Wear  these  seven  days 
a  week." 

This  recipe  has  been  tried 
by  thousands  of  women  on 
the  north-west  side,  with 
great  success. 


You  Furnish  The  Feet,  We  Furnish  The  Shoes 
Prices  $5.00  to  $12.00 

PALACE  BOOTERY 

Humboldt  4665  E.  A.   REYNOLDS  &  CO., 

W.   NORTH  AVENUE  Cor.   Washtenaw 


Ida   C.   Sommer's 

Novelty  Gift  and  Art  Establishment 


3639   Fullerton  Avenue 

Gifts  for  any  occasion.  Wholesale  price  given  all 
lodge  affairs,  such  as  card  parties,  officer's  nights,  etc. 

We  have  a  Woman's  Exchange;  $1.00  per  year.  We 
buy  and  sell  anything  and  everything  hand  made.  Make 
money  during  your  spare  time. 


Our  clubs  strong  as  ever.     25c  per  week;  miscellan- 
eous merchandise,  one  price  cash  or  club. 


64  MEATS 

Meats 

"Bad  dinners  go  hand  in  hand  with  total  depravity, 
ivhile  a  properly  fed  man  is  already  half  saved." 

BAKED    HAM 

Soak  ham  over  night  in  water  to  cover;  put  on  fire  in  cold  water 
and  boil  one  hour:  drain  off  this  water  and  put  on  fire  again  with  fresh 
water  and  boil  about  three  hours  or  until  tender;  remove  from  fire,  leave 
in  water  until  cold,  then  peel  off  outside  rind;  cover  thickly  with  brown 
sugar,  a  few  cloves,  one-half  cup  sherry  wine;  put  in  oven  for  about 
one  hour.  Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

BAKED    HAM    WITH     MUSHROOMS 

Parboil  a  thick  cut  of  ham  of  about  two  pounds  for  one -half  hour 
in  cold  water  with  three  whole  cloves  and  one  tablespoonful  sugar;  dot 
with  bits  of  butter  and  put  in  hot  oven  for  one -half  hour;  melt  two 
tablespoonsful  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  cup  warm  milk 
and  all  the  gravy  in  the  baking  pan;  let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  add 
one  can  mushrooms;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil  ten  minutes;  ar- 
range ham  on  platter  and  pour  over  mushroom  sauce. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

BAKED    HAM    AND    POTATOES 

Put  slices  of  raw  ham  in  a  bake  dish;  cut  potatoes  in  cubes  and 
arrange  around  ham;  add  dabs  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  add  enough 
milk  to  cover;  bake  about  one  hour,  turning  potatoes  once  when  half 
done.  Charlotte  Babbe. 

BAKED    PORK    CHOPS 

Dip  chops  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  brown  slightly  in  frying  pan;  place  in  a  roasting  pan,  adding 
one  quart  of  hot  milk  which  has  been  thickened  with  one  tablespoonful 
flour;   bake  slowly  one  and  one -half  hours  well  covered. 

Sophie  Knoeppel. 

BOILED    DINNER 

Two  pounds  beef,  chopped,  one  cup  boiled  rice,  one  small  onion, 
chopped  fine,  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  water;  form  into  balls 
and  roll  each  one  in  a  cabbage  leaf;  tie  together  or  put  in  toothpicks; 
cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  three-fourths  hour.  Tillie  Dyer, 

BONELESS    BIRDS 

One  and  one-half  pound  round  steak,  sliced  thin;  cut  meat  into 
squares  of  four  inches,  pound  in  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take,  season; 
put  a  small  piece  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  and  a  piece  of  onion  and  carrot 
on  each  piece;  roll  each  piece  of  meat  and  tie  or  pin  with  toothpick; 
brown  in  drippings;  cover  with  water  and  simmer  for  one  and  one-half 
hour.     Can  be  baked  in  oven.  Caroline  Koford. 


MEATS  65 

BREAST    OF    VEAL    AND    PEAS 

The  best  part  for  this  is  the  thick  end  of  the  breast  cut  into  lengths 
about  two  or  three  inches;  place  them  in  a  casserole  with  one  or  two 
onions  cut  into  dice,  and  one  ounce  of  fat;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  cover;  put  on  fire  and  let  sweat  until  veal  begins  to  fry;  turn  the 
pieces  and  fry  all  sides;  add  dry  peas  (soaked  over  night),  cover  with 
water;  see  that  seasoning  is  right;  if  desired  a  pinch  of  mint  can  be 
added;  cover  and  let  simmer  until  the  whole  is  cooked.      Hattie  Bich. 

CHICKEN   A   LA   KING 

Boil  one  chicken,  four  to  five  pounds,  in  salt  water  until  tender, 
(can  be  done  the  day  before),  pick  meat  off  bones,  not  too  small,  have 
ready  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  (half  an  hour  before 
serving  lunch),  blend  with  four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  add  one  quart 
milk  gradually;  cook,  throw  in  chicken.  Add  one  green  pepper  and 
three  red  pimentos  chopped,  then  one  can  mushrooms  at  end  of  half 
hour;  beat  one  egg,  add  the  mixture  to  the  egg,  beating  constantly, 
not  the  egg  to  the  mixture,  put  back  on  stove  just  for  a  minute.  Serve 
on  toast.  Berga  Reichel,  W.  M. 

Mate  L.  Chester  Chapter. 

CHICKEN     PIE 

Boil  chicken  until  tender;  make  crust  of  one  quart  flour,  pinch  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  lard  and  one  pint  milk  (or  milk  and  water),  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon ful  soda;  line  sides  of  large  pan 
and  put  in  chicken;  cover  top;  thicken  gravy  and  pour  in  through 
opening  in  top  crust;  bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  This 
is  made  very  good  with  veal  or  pork  also.  Ida  Basedow. 

CHICKEN    STEW 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  a  fowl;  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  slowly 
until  tender;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  when  about  half  done;  thicken 
stock;  add  to  gravy  a  few  sliced  cooked  carrots,  a  can  of  peas  and  a  can 
of  mushrooms.  Tillie  Dyer. 

CHICKEN     STUFFED    WITH     RSCE 

Make  a  dressing  of  one  cup  cooked  rice,  three  chopped  pimentoes 
and  the  chicken  liver,  which  has  been  cooked  a''d  put  through  the 
grinder;  stuff  chicken  and  bake  or  let  it  simmai  on  top  of  stove  in 
tightly  covered  kettle  until  tender;   then  brown  in  oven. 

Tillie  Dyer. 

CHINESE  CHOP  SUEY 

One  and  one -half  pounds  beef  and  lean  pork,  chopped  in  one-inch 
cubes,-tme  large  tablespoon  butter,  one'  tablespoon  Chinese  sauce,  three 
stalks  celery,  six  or  seven  large  onions  chopped  fine,  one -half  cup  mush- 
water;  add  one  sliced  onion,  one  small  carrot  sliced,  bay  leaf,  a  little 
rooms;  heat  butter  and  add  washed  meat  cut  fine;  then  add  one  cup 
water,  cover  and  let  stew  awhile,  then  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
celery  salt,  and  stew  half  hour  longer  over  a  very  small  flame;  then  add 
Chinese  sauce  and  tablespoon  molasses;  heat  a  piece  of  butter  in  sep- 
arate kettle  and  fry  the  onions  and  celery  chopped  fine,  to  which  a 
tablespoon  or  more  of  Chinese  sauce  has  been  added;  cover  and  let 
simmer  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  to  meat.  Mushrooms  should  be 
cooked  separately,  but  are  not  necessary  in  this  recipe.  Thicken  with 
flour  and  water  and  serve  with  boiled  rice.  Alice  E.  Soukup. 


66  MEATS 

CHILI-CON-CARNE 

Heat  one  tablespoon  of  shortening,  add  two  large  onions  chopped 
tine  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Add  one  pound  ground  pork  and  veal  or 
beef.  Cover  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon each  of  ground  allspice,  black  pepper,  ginger  and  cloves  and  one 
quart  of  tomatoes  and  cook  for  two  hours.  Then  add  a  tall  can  of 
kidney  beans  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  cayenne.  This  recipe 
may  be  doubled  or  trebled  and  is  delicious  when  served  with  boiled 
spaghetti   or  macaroni.  Alice   E.   Soukup. 

CHOPPED    BEEF    WiTH     RICE 
Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  rice  in  salted  water  unt:i   nearly   dons, 
then  mix  it  with  two  pounds  chopped  beef,  a  large  on!  ri,  chopped,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes;   place  in  large  bakii.g 
dish,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake     one  hour. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

CHOP    SUEY 

One  and  one-half  pounds  round  steak,  one-half  pound  pork  shoulder, 
cut  in  small  pieces;  brown  meat  in  butter,  then  add  one  cup  mush- 
rooms, one  quart  small  potatoes,  two  stalks  celery  and  four  large  onions 
cut  in  pieces,  two  tablespoonsful  molasses;  boil  rice  separate. 

Hattie  Melind. 

CHOP  SUEY 

Two  pounds  beef,  one  pound  pork,  two  pounds  veal,  two  table- 
spoons lard,  one -half  cup  molasses,  four  large  onions,  four  nice  stalks 
celery,  two  pounds  Chinese  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup 
beef  stock.  Boil  beef  twenty  minutes  and  when  cooked  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Cut  veal  and  pork  in  pieces.  Put  molasses  and  lard  into  pan 
together.  Then  fry  meat  for  forty  minutes.  Cut  celery,  onions  and 
potatoes  and  let  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  flour  over  all 
and  add  beef  stock.  Clarissa  Hasenbalg, 

W.  M.,  Madison  Chapter. 

CREOLE    CHICKEN    PIE 

Pick  over  two-thirds  cup  rice  and  add  slowly  to  two  cups  boiling 
salted  water;  boil  about  thirty  minutes,  drain,  return  to  kettle  and 
place  on  back  of  range  to  dry  off;  melt  one-third  cup  butter  in  a  pan, 
add  rice,  cooking  slowly  three  minutes,  then  add  one  cup  canned  toma- 
toes, one  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes,  and  enough  chicken 
stock  to  moisten;  let  boil  for  a  few  minutes;  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne;   turn  into  individual  dishes  and  cover  with  crust. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.M 

COMMONWEALTH    CHICKEN 

Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoonsful  chicken  fat,  add  one-fourth 
tablespoonful  cornstarch,  pour  on  gradually  three-fourths  cup  chicken 
stock,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-fourth  cup  cream;  bring  to  boiling  point, 
add  two  tablespoonsful  butter  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  then  add 
one  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes,  one-half  cup  sauted  mush- 
rooms, one-fourth  cup  canned  pimentoes,  cut  up;  bring  to  boiling  point 
and  add  yolk  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten;  turn  mixture  into  a  slightly 
buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  till  crumbs  are  brown.  .      •       Dagmar  Stevensr  W:  M.  " 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES  67 

Largest  and  Best  Equipped  Service 
Station  on  the  North-West  Side 

Charles  Lange  &  Bros.  Co. 

BUICK  AUTOMOBILES 

Phone   Humboldt  747  2736-46  Armitage  Avenue 


W^CHMIDT 

PHOTOGRAPHER 

2753  West  North  Avenue 


PHONOGRAPHS  PICTURE  FRAMING 

ARTIST  MATERIALS  CHINA  FIRING 

The  2lrt  and  Qift  Shop 

2605  W.  NORTH   AVENUE     Near  Rockwell  Street 

Hand   Painted   China,   Cut  Glass,   Pictures,   Waists, 
Silverware,   Blankets,   Lamps,   Etc. 

R.   FREIBERG  CARDS  FOR  ALL  OCCASIONS 

Phone  Humboldt  9186  FAVORS,  PARTY  SUPPLIES 


Jobbing-  Promptly  Attended  To  Phone,  Humboldt  7436 

Estimates  Furnished 

FRED   GROSCH 


Practical   Plumber,   Gas   Fitter  and 
Sewer  Builder 

2745  ARMITAGE  AVENUE 

Near  California  Avenue  CHICAGO 


68  MEATS 

DEVONSHIRE    MEAT    PIES    (INDIVIDUAL) 

Wipe  knuckle  of  veal  with  a  cheesecloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water 
and  remove  meat  from  bones;  put  bones  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water;  add  one  sliced  onion,  one  small  carrot  sliced,  bay  leaf,  a  little 
parsley,  twelve  peppercorns  and  two  teaspoonsful  salt;  heat  slowly  to 
boiling  point,  add  meat,  let  simmer  till  meat  is  tender;  remove  meat,  let 
stock  simmer  until  reduced  to  two  cupfuls;  put  one -half  pound  lean  raw 
ham  in  frying  pan,  cover  with  warm  water  and  let  stand  on  back  of 
range  one  hour;  melt  four  tablespoonsful  butter,  add  four  tablespoonsful 
flour,  then  add  the  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  stirring  continually;  bring  to 
boiling  point,  then  add  ham  and  veal,  cut  in  cubes;  put  in  meat  pie 
dishes,  cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crust  is  done. 

Esther  Stevens.  P.  M. 

ECONOMY     HAMBURGER 

One  pound  chopped  beef,  one  cup  boiled  oatmeal  (left  over  from 
breakfast  will  do),  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  mix  beef,  oatmeal 
and  egg,  season  and  form  into  balls  and  fry.     Makes  meat  go  farther. 

Ida  Basedow. 

FLANK   STEAK    (BAKED) 
Cover  a  flank  steak  with  sliced  onions,  one-half  cup  water,  one  can 
tomatoes;    salt  and  pepper  to  taste;    bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven, 
fresh  tomatoes  may  be  used.  Mabel  Petersen. 

GOULASH 
One  pound  round  steak  cut  in  cubes,  two  onions,  one  green  pepper, 
five  large  potatoes,  one  can  tomatoes,  salt.  Brown  meat  in  pan;  when 
nice  and  brown  add  potatoes  cut  in  cubes,  and  brown  in  same  pan; 
then  put  all  together  in  kettle,  adding  pepper,  onions  and  can  of  toma- 
toes; stew  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Aagott  Fortun. 

LIVER    CREOLE 

Roll  thin  slices  of  liver  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  hot  fat;  then  add 
three  cupfuls  of  tomatoes  chopped  fine  and  two  onions  sliced,  one  table - 
spoonful  cornstarch  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  water;  cover  and  cook 
slowly  for  one-half  hour;   garnish  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Caroline  Koford. 
MEAT    BALLS 

Put  any  cold  meat  through  grinder.  Make  a  dressing  of  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  egg;  cook  until  thick;  add 
meat  and  season  to  tastefwith  onion  or  sage;  dip  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  fat.  Grace  Shoemaker. 

MEAT   LOAF 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  one  pound  of  pork  chopped,  one  can  tomatoes, 
two  eggs,  one  stalk  of  celery,  two  green  peppers,  two  onions,  and 
cracker  crumbs;   salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Marie  Egkild. 

MEAT    LOAF 

Two  pounds  beef,  three-fourths  pound  pork,  chopped;   add  one 

one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  onion,  chopped,  and  rrae 

tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper;    put  in  loaf  pan,  pour 

over  small  can  tomatoes;  bake  one  hour.  Caroline  Koford. 


MEATS  69 

MEAT  LOAF 
One   and    one-half    pounds    chopped    veal    or    beef,    one-half    pound 
chopped  pork,  one  onion  and  one  tablespoon  parsley,  chopped;   season; 
add  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one  beaten  egg,  one-half  cup  milk;  lay  strips 
of  bacon  on  top,  dredge  with  flour;  bake  one  hour.  Olga  Lund. 

PERSHING    PEPPERS 

Take  six  green  peppers,  cut  a  lid  in  each,  scrape  out  all  seeds  and 
lay  peppers  in  cold  salt  water  for  an  hour.  Make  filling  by  mixing 
thoroughly  one-half  loaf  of  stale  bread  moistened  with  milk  or  water, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  chopped  meat  of  any  kind,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
if  there  are  any  cold,  boiled  vegetables  left  over,  chop  fine  and  add  to 
mixture,  also  an  onion  or  parsley,  celery  will  give  it  a  nice  flavor  also; 
then  empty  a  can  of  tomatoes  into  cooking  kettle,  put  stuffed  peppers 
in  and  boil  slowly  one-half  hour,  be  sure  to  season  the  tomatoes  before 
putting  peppers  in.  Marie  Seiter. 

W.  M.,  Hyde  Park  Chapter. 

PORK    ROAST 

To  add  to  the  richness  of  pork  roast  pour  over  it  a  can  of  tomato 
soup  fifteen  minutes  before  roast  is  done.  If  potatoes  are  baked  with 
roast  add  tomato  soup  about  one-half  hour  before  roast  is  done;  cut 
potatoes  in  half  and  roast  in  this  gravy.  Clara  Swanson. 

PORK    TENDERLOIN    WITH     DRESSiNG 

Sear  meat  and  put  in  bottom  of  baking  dish;  place  bits  of  suet  over 
it,  *hen  a  layer  of  dressing  made  of  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  three  table- 
tp<  iinsful  butter  or  substitute,  one-fourth  teaspocnful  salt,  dash  of 
1  -eppf-r.  one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  sage,  one-fourlh  cup  boiling  water; 
jut  cored  apples  cut  in  half  over  top  and  bake;  garnish  with  i  arsley. 

.Maude  Rice,  W.  M    Woo  J  lawn  Chapter. 

PRESSED    CHICKEN 

Select  a  good-sized  fowl.  Singe,  clean  and  disjoint.  Wash  thor- 
oughly, cover  with  cold  water  and  simmer  gently  until  the  flesh  is 
ready  to  drop  from  the  bones.  When  half  done  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper,  celery-salt  and  one  small  onion,  stuck  with  two  or  three  cloves. 
When  the  chicken  is  perfectly  tender  remove  all  the  skin  and  bone  and 
shred  the  meat  in  good  sized  pieces.  Boil  two  eggs  hard,  cool  and  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Remove  all  fat  from  the  chicken  gravy,  then  boil  down 
to  about  a  cupful.  Moisten  the  meat  with  this;  then  pack  in  layers 
in  a  well-buttered  mold,  arranging  slices  of  egg  over  each  layer. 
Cover  with  a  plate  and  set  a  weight  on  it.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  until 
the  next  day.  Margaret  Gildner. 

SOUR  MEAT  BALLS 
One  and  one-half  pounds  beef,  one-half  pound  pork  shoulder, 
ground; ;  add  two  eggs,  one  chopped  onion,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add 
a  piece  of  bread  about  the  size  of  a  water  roll  which  has  been  soaked 
in  water  and  squeezed  dry  and  enough  grated  crumbs  so  that  it  can  be 
molded  into  balls,  then  roll  in  crumbs;  brown  them  in  butter  or  fat. 
then  remove  from  pan  and  add  to  gravy  an  onion,  chopped,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  salt,  pepper,  three  cups  water,  vinegar  and  sugar  to  taste; 
mix  one  teaspoonful  dry  mustard  with  a  little  flour  and  water  and  add 
to  boiling  gravy;   return  meat  balls  to  gravy  and  boil  one-half  hour. 

Hattie  Melind. 


70  MEATS 

SPICED     MEAT 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  lean  beef,  wash  and  put  in  a  bowl,  add  a 
handful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  pepper,  about  ten  whole  allspice, 
ten  whole  cloves,  tive  bay  leaves,  two  big  onions  sliced;  cover  with 
vinegar,  let  stand  twenty -four  hours,  then  add  as  much  water  as  vinegar 
and  boil  until  tender;  thicken  gravy  with  brown  flour;  put  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  cream  into  gravy  after  removing  from  fire;  serve  hot  with 
potato    dumplings.     (See    vegetables.)  Anna    Scheer. 

SWEETBREADS    AND    PEAS 

Two  cups  sweetbreads  cut  in  cubes,  one  cup  French  peas,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  pinch  cayenne; 
parboil  sweetbreads  in  salted  water,  then  remove  tubes  and  membranes 
and  cut  in  cubes;  add  the  peas,  melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  seasoning; 
gradually  pour  in  the  milk;  reheat  and  serve. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

VEAL   LOAF 

Two  pounds  veal  and  one  pound  of  lean  pork  ground,  two  beaten 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  small  onion  grated,  one-half  green  pepper 
chopped  fine,  also  a  little  chopped  parsley,  one  cup  cream,  four  crack- 
ers rolled;  mix  well;  put  into  two  small  bread  tins,  lay  slices  of  bacon 
(in  top  and  one  bay  leaf  on  each  loaf.     Bake  one  hour  in  hot  over. 

Milada  Koren. 
\v\  M.  Prague  Chapter. 

VEAL    WITH    SPAGHETTI 

One  and  one-half  pounds  veal  from  neck  without  bones  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Brown  in  one-third  cup  of  drippings  and  add  one-third  cup  of 
onions  cut  fine  (or  clove  of  garlic)  and  one-half  can  tomatoes  and  let 
simmer  one  and  one-half  hours. 

In  meantime  boil  small  package  spaghetti  in  two  quarts  boiling 
salt  water,  when  cooked  tender  put  in  colander  and  let  cold  water  run 
over  and  drain.  Grate  a  quarter  of  a  pound  American  cheese.  Now  add 
to  the  meat,  onions  and  tomatoes  the  spaghetti,  one  can  peas,  cheese  and 
simmer  half  hour  longer.  Canbe  put  in  casserole  dish;  add  pepper, 
red  pepper  and  salt  to   taste. 

Anna  Eklund. 

VEGETABLE    STEW 

Brown  nicely  about  three  pounds  of  boiling  beef,  after  which  place 
in  a  roasting  pan  and  add  one  can  tomatoes,  one  can  peas,  utie  large 
onion,  two  large  carrots,  three  cloves,  one-fourth  cup  tapioca  (minute), 
one-fourth  cup  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  water  and 
bake  slowly  about  four  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 

Edna  M.  Siebel. 


MEATS  71 


^^  Oo^l^J*>*<£~   vctpCsC-  e^££e>£ 


72  FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 

Telephone  Belmont  1505  Res.  3333  LeMoyne  St. 

Tel.  Belmont  9038 

JONAS   OFTEDAHL 

MEAT  MARKET 

3218  North  Avenue  CHICAGO 

HARVEY  ARNESON 

GROCER 

TEAS,  COFFEES,  BUTTER  AND  EGGS 

A  SPECIALTY 
Phone  Belmont  2399  3252  W.   North  Avenue 

CHRIST    MARKUSON 

FURNITURE  AND  MOVING 

MOTOR  SERVICE  AND  STORAGE 

COAL 

3613  W.  NORTH  AVENUE 

Telephone,  Humboldt  8169 

EDELSTEIN   &  G LATTER 

FINE  MILLINERY 

2522  W.  North  Avenue 

Near    Maplewood  Avenue  CHICAGO 

Phone  Humboldt  7160 

The  Fashion  Shop 

LADIES  AND  MISSES 

COATS,  DRESSES,  SKIRTS  AND  BLOUSES 


2623  W.  NORTH   AVENUE 
A.  LEVY  CHICAGO 


PIES     AND     PASTRIES  73 

Pies  and  Pastries 

"l  am  forbid  to  tell  the  secrets  of  my  prison  house" 

— Hamlet. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH   PIE 

Bake  crust  as  for  lemon  cream;  melt  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  three  cups 
of  sweet  milk;  put  on  fire;  when  boiling  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch;  add  to  melted  butter  and  sugar  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  thick;  remove  from  fire  and  fill  baked  crust;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  spread  on  top;  return  to  oven  to 
brown.  Marie  Webb. 

W.  M.,  Lady  Garfield  Chapter. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH    PIE 

Filling:  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups 
cold  water,  four  tablespoons  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon 
vanilla,  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  One  crust:  Three-quarters  cup  of 
flour,  three  tablespoons  lard,  enough  cold  water  to  roll  out;  salt.  Bake 
crust  before  putting  in  filling.  Method:  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  water, 
cook  until  thick;  add  butter  and  beaten  yolks;  after  five  minutes  re- 
move from  fire  and  add  vanilla;  cover  with  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  four  tablespoons   sugar  and  brown  in   oven. 

Edna  M.  Siebel. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH    PIE 

One  cup  brown  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted  over 
fire  until  smooth,  stirring  constantly;  add  two  eggs  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  one  and  one -half  cups  sweet  milk;  cook  until  thick; 
enough  for  one  pie;  when  cool  put  in  a  baked  crust. 

Anna  Edmonson. 

BUTTER  TARTS 

Line  one  dozen  patty  tins  with  a  good  rich  pie  crust;  mix  together 
one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  cup  brown  sugar;  one-quarter  cup  butter,  two 
level  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  vanilla;  put  in  the  patty  tins  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  until  the  filling  seems  cooked. 

Anna  Edmonson. 

COCOANUT  PIE 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  a  good  crust  and  bake;  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  two  cups  milk,  one-half  cup 
cocoanut;  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  crnstarch;  use  whites  of  the 
eggs  for  a  meringue  and  brown  in  oven.  Sophie  Knoeppel. 

CRUST  FOR  CHICKEN   PIE 

Sift  two  cups  flour  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one  and  one-half 
tablespoon  baking  powder;  work  in  two  tablespoons  butter  and  one  and 
one-quarter  tablespoon  lard  with  fingers,  and  add  seven-eighths  cup 
milk;  toss  on  a  floured  board;  pat  and  roll  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness; 
shape  to  fit  pie  dish,  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 


74  PIES     AND     PASTRIES 

CRANBERRY   PIE 

One  and  one-quarter  cup  cranberries,  two-thirds  cup  raisins,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  vanilla,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
water;  mix  all  together  and  fill  rich  pie  crust  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Hattie  Melind. 

CUSTARD   PIE 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly;  add  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  salt,  a  little  nutmeg;  pour  into  three  cups  of  hot  milk;  strain 
into  a  deep  tin,  lined  with  paste;  bake  slowly;  when  it  puffs  and  the 
knife  comes  out  clean  it  is  done.  Sophie  Knoeppel. 

GREEN  TOMATO   MINCE   MEAT 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  or  put  through  grinder; 
drain  and  add  water  to  cover  and  boil  until  a  little  tender,  then  drain 
again  and  add  four  pounds  brown  sugar,  one -half  pound  suet,  chopped 
fine,  two  cups  vinegar,  one-half  peck  apples:  cook  until  clear  and  then 
add  two  pounds  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
two  teaspoons  allspice,  two  teaspoons  salt.  Lillian  Cermak. 

W.  M.,  Millard  Chapter. 

GREEN   TOMATO   MINCE    MEAT 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  sprinkle  with  about  two 
tablespoons  salt;  let  stand  two  hours  then  drain;  boil  fifteen  minutes  in 
five  quarts  boiling  water;  drain  well;  then  add  two  and  one-half  pounds- 
medium  brown  sugar,  one-half  peck  chopped  apples,  two  pounds  seeded 
raisins,  one -half  pound  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoons ground  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one -half  tablespoon 
nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  mace,  all  level,  grated 
rind  of  one  orange  and  one  lemon;  boil  together  well. 

Hattie  Melind. 

LEMON    PIE 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust  and  bake;  for  filling  stir  together  one  cu;> 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs;  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon; 
thicken  with  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  and  mix  well;  add  one  and 
(Hie-half  cups  boiling  water;  cook  until  it  thickens,  then  cool,  pour  into 
crust;  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff;  add  two  tablespoons  sugar;  put  in  hot 
oven  to  brown.  Marie  Baumgarten. 

LEMON   CREAM    PIE 

Mix  one  tablespoon  flour  and  one  cup  sugar  with  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon;  add  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two- 
thirds  cup  water;  cook  until  thick;  put  this  into  a  baked  crust  and 
return  to  oven  for  five  minutes;  beat  whites  of  eggs  with  a  little  sugar; 
spread  on  top  and  brown.  Anna   Edmonson. 

LEMON   CREAM    PIE 

Mix  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon;  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten  and  two-thirds  cup 
water;  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  thick;  put  mixture  in  a  baked  crust, 
and  place  in  oven  for  five  minutes;  beat  whites  stiff  with  a  little  sugar; 
spread  over  pie  and  brown.  Jessie  Glad. 


PIES     AND     PASTRIES  75 

LEMON    RAISIN    PIE 

One  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  water,  one  cup  sugar, 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  teaspoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour; 
boil  together  until  it  thickens;  bake  with  two  crusts. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

PIE   PASTE 

One  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  lard,  three  tablespoons  cold  water, 
pinch  sugar  and  salt;  sift  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  rub  lard  in  lightly;  add 
water  and  mix  with  fork;  handle  as  little  as  possible  after  adding  water. 

Grace  Shoemaker. 

RAISIN   CHOCOLATE   PIE 

Mix  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour  and  one-quarter  cup  milk 
to  a  paste;  add  one  ounce  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  butter,  three  table- 
spoons chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  milk, 
pinch  salt;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  add  two  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks  and  one -half  teaspoon  vanilla;  pour  into  a  baked  crust 
and  set  in  a  hot  oven  until  firm;  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  adding  ore 
tablespoon  sugar;   spread  on  top  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Carrie  Bittrich. 

RAISIN    PIE 

One  large  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  water, 
one  tablespoon  flour;  boil  together  until  it  thickens;  bake  with  two 
crusts.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  ML 

SOUR   CREAM    PIE 

One  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  raisins  (seeded  and 
chopped),  one  egg;   bake  with  under  crust. 

Ellen  W.  Hansen. 

SOUR   CREAM    PIE 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup 
sour  cream  or  milk  (cream  is  best)  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Camile  Kirby. 


76  PIES     AND     PASTRIES 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


fr 


Vr- 


Take  a  Real  Vacation 

52  weeks  every  year! 

Say  Goodbye  to  Wash-day  and 
Lnjoy  the   Summer 

Our  Family  Washing  Department  will  re- 
lieve you  of  the  weekly  drudgery.  Our  service 
is  reliable  —  rain  or  shine  our  wagon  is  at 
your  door. 

We  do  it  "by  the  pound" — the  only  just  way 
Phone   or  write 


WE  lAGLE [AUNDRYQ 

2 7 JO  - 2  723'  FULLEKTOAt  A  VE. 


J 


V 


THE  MONEY  SAVING  SHOPPING  PLACE 


Di.CKOW 


2038-^0-42    MILWAUKEE     AVE. 
NEAR  ARMITAGE 


The  Largest  and  Most  Up-to-Date  Store  in  this 
Section  of  the  City 

DRY  GOODS,  SHOES,  MEN'S  FURNISHINGS 

LADIES'   &  CHILDREN'S 

READY-TO-WEAR  APPAREL 


MILLINERY 


HOUSE  FURNISHINGS 


:!i:;i:l!ll!iiiilil!ll!i!i!l!:  I!!iii!l!!li!!il!!l 


78  PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS 

Puddings  and  Desserts 

"The  proo'f  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

— Cervantes. 

ANGEL'S  DELIGHT 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one -quarter  cup  cold  water;  beat  with 
egg  beater;  add  one  cup  dates,  one  cup  pecans  or  walnut  meats  (cut 
line);  flour  the  nuts;  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder;  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes  in  muffin  tins; 
crumble  it;   mix  with  whipped  cream  before  serving. 

Hannah  Bly. 

APPLE  SOUFFLE 

Cut  three  large  apples  in  quarters;  stew  in  just  enough  water  to 
half  cover  them;  flavor  with  lemon;  make  a  custard  of  one  pint  milk 
and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  sweeten  and  flavor;  when  thickened  pour 
over  the  apples;  make  a  meringue  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff  with  one  tablespoon  sugar;  brown  in  oven. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.   M. 

APPLE   FLUFF 

Make  a  custard  of  one  cup  milk,  sone  tablespoon  sugar,  yolk  of  one 
egg;  flavor  and  when  cool  put  on  ice;  grate  two  apples  into  a  deep  bow?, 
sprinkling  with  sugar  as  you  grate;  pour  on  this  one  egg  white,  beaten 
stiff,  and  whip  until  fluffy;  put  a  spoonful  of  fluff  in  each  dish  and  pour, 
over  a  spoonful  of  custard.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M, 

BANANA   COMPOTE 
Boil   together   ten   minutes    one    cup    sugar,    two-thirds   cup    water; 
add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;    let 
stand  until  cold;  pour  over  quartered  red  bananas,  with  whipped  cream 
and  chopped  nuts.  Martha  E.  Clendenin. 

BAVARIAN   CREAM 
One   can   shredded   pineapple,   juice   of   one   lemon,    one   cup    sugar; 
mix  and  stir  well;   mix  two  tablespoons  gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water, 
setting  the  cup  in  hot  water;  add  gelatine  and  then  fold  in  slowly  three 
cups  whipped  cream.  Lillian  Gustafsen. 

BANANA  AND   STRAWBERRY   WHIP 

Crush  one  banana,  put  through  a  strainer;  crush  a  dozen  strawber- 
ries; whip  white  of  one  egg  until  stiff;  add  three  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar;  then  whip  in  the  banana  pulp;  add  the  strawberries;  serve  in 
sherbet  glasses  with  a  strawberry  on  top.  May  be  varied  by  serving 
with  marshmallows  on  top  or  placing  broken  marshmallows  in  the  sher- 
bet glasses  before  putting  in  the  whip. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

BREAD   PUDDING 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  three  cups  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla,  one  cup  raisins;  heat  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  crumbs; 
cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  eggs,  salt  and  vanilla;  when  the 
milk  is  cold  combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add  the  raisins;  pour  into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  forty  minutes. 


PUDDINGS    AND    DESSERTS  7<) 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  three  cups  water,  three  level  table- 
spoonfuls  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  boil  sugar  and 
water  and  thicken  with  cornstarch;  pour  into  moulds  while  still  warm 
and  add  chopped  walnuts;    serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

CARAMEL   PUDDING 

Boil  two  cups  light  brown  sugar  and  three  cups  water;  thicken  with 
three  tablespoons  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  pour  into 
mould;  add  chopped  walnuts;  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Hazel  Larseo- 

CHOCOLATE   PUFF   BALL 

One  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  cocoa,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one 
heaping-  cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  sift  cocoa,  flour  and 
baking  powder;  mix  well  and  put  in  six  butter  cups  and  steam  one- 
half  hour. 

Sauce:  One-half  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  flour;  melt  butter,  add  flour  and  sugar;  then  add  one  cup  milk 
or  water,  cook  until  thick;  vanilla  and  pinch  salt;  serve  hot  or  cold; 
can  be  reheated.  Anna  Eklund. 

CUSTARD   PUDDING   SAUCE 

Put  one  cup  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  when  hot  stir  in  one  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  beat  yolk  of  one  egg  with 
two  tablespoons  sugar;  pour  a  little  of  the  hot  milk  into  the  egg,  then 
pour  all  back  into  double  boiler;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  vanilla;  beat 
well;   let  cool.     Nice  with  prune  whip  or  other  puddings. 

Coralie  Goodall. 

CARAMEL   PUDDING 

Place  one  cup  of  sugar  in  a  pan  over  a  very  slow  Are,  stirring 
constantly  until  sugar  is  dark  brown  in  color.  Add  slowly  one-half 
cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  then 
add  one  quart  of  milk  and  bring  to  boiling  point  in  double  boiler; 
thicken  with  four  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk;   cook  four  or  five  minutes;   serve  cold. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

COCOANUT  CRUMB  PUDDING 

To  two  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  (remove  crusts);  add  one  cup  shred- 
ded cocoanut  and  two  tablespoons  melted  butter;  pour  over  this  two 
cups  milk;  cover  and  let  stand  one  hour;  add  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two  cups  milk,  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt  and 
one  teaspoon  lemon  extract;  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish;  place 
dish  in  another  pan,  half  full  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  firm;  beat 
whites  of  eggs  stiff;  add  three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  one 
tablespoon- lemon  juice;  spread  on  top  of  pudding  and  return  to  oven  to 
brown.  Margaret  Williams. 


SO  PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS 

COCOA   BLANC   MANGE 

One  quart  milk,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  corn- 
starch, one-quarter  cup  cocoa,  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla;  mix  cornstarch, 
cocoa  and  sugar  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  milk;  scald  remaining  milk 
and  thicken  with  the  cornstarch  mixture. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

DATE   PUDDING 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  three  eggs  (peat  whites  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately), three  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  cup  each  chopped 
walnuts  and  dates,  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  bake  one-half 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.     Will  serve  ten  people. 

Isabel  Agard. 

DATE   PUDDING 

One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  gelatine,  one  and  one-half  cups 
water,  one -half  pound  dates,  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  juice  of  one 
orange;  take  the  stones  out  of  the  dates  and  cut  them  in  halves,  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  water  and  sugar;  cook  slowly  until  soft, 
then  add  the  gelatine  and  orange  juice;  set  aside  to  cool;  when  it 
begins  to  thicken  fold  in  one  bottle  of  whipped  cream;  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Marie  Baumgarten. 

DATE   PUDDING 

One  package  dates,  one  pint  milk,  small  pinch  salt;  wash,  stone 
and  cut  dates  into  small  pieces;  add  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  which 
will  take  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Ethel  Held  Young. 

DATE  AND   NUT  WHIP 

Three  apples  pared,  cored  and  grated,  one-half  cup  stoned  dates  and 
one-half  cup  nuts;  put  through  chopper;  beat  two  egg  whites  until 
stiff;  fold  into  the  combined  fruit  and  nuts;  serve  with  whipped  cream 
and  cherries.  Minnie  Krempel. 

DELICIOUS   DESSERT 

Beat  one -half  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla;  pour  it  over  a  ten-cent  box  of  marshmallows  which  have 
been  cut  into  small  pieces  with  scissors,  sprinkle  grated  nuts  or  choco- 
late over  the  top  and  serve  cold.  This  makes  enough  for  seven 
sherbet  glasses.  Marie  Konzelman. 

FROZEN   COCOA   PUDDING 

One  quart  of  milk,  one-quarter  cupful  of  cocoa,  four  tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch,  three-quarters  cupful  of  honey,  a  few  grains  of  salt;  put 
the  milk  on  into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  when  boiling  add  the  cocoa 
and  the  cornstarch,  which  has  been  mixed,  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold 
milk;  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  honey  while  the  pudding  is 
hot;  when  cold  freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream.  The  honey  adds  an 
exceptionally  good  flavor  with  cocoa  or  chocolate. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS  81 

FRUIT  DELIGHT 

Sprinkle  sliced  pineapple  with  powdered  sugar  (fresh  or  canned 
fruit  may  be  used,  and  the  slices  should  be  about  one -quarter  inch 
thick);  set  aside  to  chill;  then  drain  and  arrange  on  serving  dish; 
place  thin  slices  of  banana  on  each  piece,  pile  choice  strawberries  over 
the  bananas,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  pour  drained  juice  from  pineapple 
over  the  whole  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Fannie  MacQuillan. 

GLORIFIED   RICE 

Cook  one-half  cup  rice  until  tender;  soak  one  package  Knox's  lemon 
or  strawberry  gelatin  in  one-quarter  cup  cold  water  for  five  minutes; 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling  water  to  gelatine;  then  add  boiled 
rice,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  grated  pineapple.  Pour  into  mould 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  To  make  it  especially  nice  beat  about 
one  cup  of  whipped  cream  into  it  when  gelatine  is  partly  set. 

Anna  Edmonson. 

GRAPENUT  PUDDING 

One  cup  of  grapenuts,  one-half  cup  of  walnuts,  one-half  pound  of 
dates,  one  package  of  lemon  jello,  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  when  cold 
serve  with   whipped  cream.  Lena  Engelhardt. 

LEMON   CREAM    PUDDING 

The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch;  beat  up  with  a  little 
cold  water;  mix  all  well  and  boil  in  two  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling 
water;  have  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  add  soon  as  taken  from  fire; 
set  on  ice  and  serve  very  cold.  Lena  Engelhardt. 

LEMON    FOAM    PUDDING 

Put  one  quart  water  on  fire;  when  boiling  thicken  with  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  add  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  one-half  cup  sugar;  pour  boiling  hot  over  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beating  constantly  while  mixing;  put  in  moulds;  serve  cold 
with  following  sauce:  Thicken  two  cups  of  boiling  milk  with  a  little 
cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk;  pour  while  hot  over  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs;    add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one   tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Anna  Edmonson. 

LEMON   SNOW   PUDDING 

Two  cups  hot  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  whites  of 
three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  (heaping) ;  boil  sugar  and  water, 
remove  from  fire,  add  lemon  juice;  thicken  with  cornstarch  and  boil  a 
few  minutes;  remove  from  fire  again  and  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  beat  ten  minutes;  put  on  ice. 

CUSTARD   FOR  SNOW   PUDDING 

One- cup  sugar,  yolk  of  three  eggs;  beat  together;  add  slowly  three- 
quarters  cup  milk  and  boil;  thicken  with  two  heaping  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, dissolved  in  one -half  cup  milk;  put  on  fire;  flavor  with  one  drop 
mapleine  and  one  tablespoonful  vanilla;  pour  warm  over  pudding. 

Nonine  Martin  Riebe 

W.  M.  Alice  Chapter. 


82  PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS 

LEMON    SAUCE    FOR   PUDDINGS 

Put  one  cup  water,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one-half  cup  sugar  in  saucepan;  when  hot  thicken  with 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

MACAROON    DESSERT 

S6ak  one  tablespoon  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk;  put  in  a  double 
boiler  with  one  cup  milk  and  one-half  cup  sugar;  let  simmer  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes;  add  one-half  cup  chopped  nuts  and  one  well-beaten 
egg;  let  cook  about  a  minute;  pour  in  a  dish  and  when  partly  set  fold 
in  one  cup  of  stiffly  whipped  cream;  serve  in  sherbet  glasses,  when  set, 
sprinkling  powdered  macaroons  on  top,  then  a  mound  of  whipped  cream. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

MAPLE    MOUSSE 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  one  and  one-half  cups  maple 
syrup;  put  syrup  on  to  heat  in  a  double  boiler;  when  hot  stir  the 
beaten  yolks  into  syrup;  stir  constantly  until  cooked  thick;  let  cool; 
when  cold  mix  lightly  with  one  quart  of  whipped  cream;  turn  into 
mould,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours,  or  put  in  freezer  and  freeze 
as  any  ice  cream.     Excellent.  Lena  Wood  Dobbie, 

W.  M.,  Miriam  Chapter. 

MAPLE    MOUSSE 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one-half  cup  maple 
syrup;  add  one  pint  whipped  cream  and  lastly  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
stiff;   pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  four  hours. 

Hazel  Larsen. 

MAPLE   PUDDING 

Bring  to  a  boil  two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  three  cups  of  boiling 
water;  mix  one-half  cup  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir 
into  the  syrup;  while  hot  add  half  a  package  of  chopped  raisins,  half 
a  cup  of  walnuts  and  one  cup  of  figs  or  dates;  serve  with  whipped 
cream.     Will  serve  twelve  people.  Isabel  Agard. 

MARSHMALLOW    DESSERT 

Two  bottles  whipped  cream,  two  pounds  marshmallows  (each 
marshmallow  cut  into  quarters),  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  one-half  cup  walnut  meats. 

Ellen  W.  Hansen. 

PEACH    DUMPLINGS 

Make  a  dough  as  for  biscuit — one  cup  flour,  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  butter  and  enough  milk  to  roll; 
divide  the  dough  into  four  parts,  and  after  rolling  out  put  one  fresh 
pared  peach  (or  canned  peach  if  out  of  season)  in  each  part;  do  not 
remove  the  pits;  pinch  together  and  drop  in  the  syrup,  which  has  been 
-previously  made.  Syrup:  Boil  on  top  of  stove  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one-third  cup  butter,  two  cups  of  hot  water;  drop  the  dumplings, 
pinched  ends  down,  and  bake  in  the  oven  in  this  syrup  for  twenty 
minutes;  have  oven  and  syrup  both  hot. 

,  ■  Lena  Wood  Dobbie, 

W.  M.,  Miriam  Chapter. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS  S3 

PEACH    FOAM 

One  cup  canned  peaches,  sliced  and  beaten;  add  one-half  cup  pow- 
dered sugar  and  beat  again  five  minutes;  add  two  well-beaten  whites 
of  eggs;  beat  all  together  again  until  foamy,  about  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes; chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream;  fresh  peaches  may  also  be 
used.  Clara  Swanson. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

<  »ne  can  grated  pineapple,  one  pound  marshmallows,  cut  in  quarters, 
let  stand  over  night,  covered;  when  ready  to  serve  add  one-half  pint 
whipped  cream;  mix  all  together;  will  serve  twelve  people. 

Marie  Larsen. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA 

Boil  one-half  cup  tapioca  in  one  and  one-half  cups  water  until  clear; 
when  cool  add  a  small  pineapple  (grated)  and  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  sugar  to  the  tapioca  and  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream;  also  with 
Maraschino  cherries  (chopped)  and  a  little  of  the  juice  besides  the 
pineapple;  it  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  dessert  and  colors  it  nicely. 

Fannie  MacQuillan. 

PUDDING   SAUCE 

Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  (melted),  two  heaping  table - 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  mix  thoroughly;  stir  in  boiling  water  until  about 
the  consistency  of  gravy;  add  a  little  vinegar  to  taste  and  one -half 
cup  sugar;   flavor;  good  with  either  rice  or  bread  pudding. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

PRUNE   WHIP 

Stew  and  sweeten  one  and  one -half  pounds  of  prunes,  remove 
stones  and  chop;  beat  until  stiff  the  whites  of  four  eggs;  beat  all 
together  until  light  and  bake  in  rather  cool  oven  for  twenty  minutes; 
nuts  may  be  added  if  desired;   serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Bertha  Hanemann. 

RHUBARB   DESSERT 

Cut  rhubarb,  stew  and  sweeten;  thicken  with  cornstarch,  dissolved 
in  water;  add  a  few  chopped  walnut  meats;  put  in  custard  cups;  chill; 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  Clara  Swanson. 

RICE   PUDDING 

Two  cups  boiled  rice,  three  cups  milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  extract;  slightly 
beat  the  eggs;  add  the  sugar  and  rice,  flavoring  ,  and  lastly  the  milk; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set.  This  can  be  made  very  rich  by 
spreading  on  top  a  layer  of  orange  marmalade  and  covering  with 
meringue.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

STUFFED    APPLES 

Core  nice  apples  and  fill  space  with  chopped  almonds  and  raisins, 
mixed  with  a  little  sugar  and  butter;  bake  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Ellen  W.  Hansen. 


84  PUDDINGS   AND  DESSERTS 

SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  suet,  one  cup  sour  milk,,  one  cup  raisins  (chopped),  two 
cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  good  tablespoonful  molasses,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one -half  teaspoonful  cloves,  one -half  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt;  steam  three  hours;  if  you  like,  you  may  use  chopped  nuts. 

Addie  Swanson. 

SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  beef  suet  (chopped  fine),  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  soda,  pinch  of  salt, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk  or  cream,  one-half  cup  each  raisins  and  cur- 
rants; steam  three  hours;  serve  with  brandy  sauce;  boil  together  one 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cup  water;  thicken  a  little 
and  add  brandy.  Inga  Wilkins. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

Cook  one-half  cup  tapioca  in  three  cups  water  until  clear,  about 
fifteen  minutes;  remove  from  fire  and  add  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg;  mix 
well;  take  white  of  one  egg  and  one-half  glass  any  kind  of  jelly  and 
beat  until  stiff;    mix  with  tapioca;    chill  and  serve. 

Caroline  Koford. 

WAR   PUDDING 

Wet  a  cup  of  yellow  cornmeal  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  it  into  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk;  when  it  thickens  cease  stirring  and  remove  from 
fire;  when  cool  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  pint  of  cold 
milk,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of 
molasses;  bake  sixty  minutes;  serve  hot. 

Ella  Lawson. 

WORTH    KNOWING   PUDDING 

Cut  one-half  pound  marshmallows  and  one-half  cup  of  walnuts 
into  pieces;  chop  one- third  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries  into  small 
pieces;  beat  a  cup  of  whipped  cream  until  it  is  stiff  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one -half  teaspoon  vanilla  and  three-fourths 
tablespoonful  of  dissolved  gelatine;  when  the  cream  mixture  begins  to 
thicken  add  the  marshmallows,  walnuts  and  fruit;  turn  into  a  mold 
until  set  and  then  decorate  with  cherries. 

Othelia  Otis. 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS  85 


<&^& 


86  FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 

Tel.  Belmont  5883  EXPRESSING 

O.    E.   EKLUND 

Distributor  of 

CANNED   PEAS  AND  CORN 

3C28   LYNDALE   STREET  CHICAGO 


Teh 

jphone 

Hum 

boldt  932 

N  orda 

Watchmakers, 

hi    £r 

Jewelers 

Olson 

and   Opticians 

2735  W 

.   NORTH   AVENUE 
CHICAGO 

Tel.   Humboldt  3319 

CHARLES      G.      LAVLZZI 

MANUFACTURER  OF 

Brick         ICE,     CREAM         Sulk 

PARTIES  AND  PICNICS  SUPPLIED  ON  SHORT  NOTICE 

FINE  CONFECTIONERY,  FRUITS,  CANDIES 

CIGARS  and  ICE  CREAM  PARLOR 

2744  W.   NORTH   AVENUE  CHICAGO 

Phone  Humboldt  1354 

ADAM      HARVEY 

Plumbing,  Gas  Fitting  and  Sewer  Building 

2349  W.   NORTH    AVENUE 


FOR 

MENS  AND  BOYS' 

CLOTHING 


TRY 


Edwards; 

2741-45  W.  NORTH  AVE.  //A 

HEAR  CALIFORNIA  AVENUE   ///j^ 


PICKLES    AND    RELISHES  it 

Pickles  and  Relishes 

"I  ivarrant   there  is  vinegar  and  pepper  in  it" 

BEET   RELISH 

One  cup  cold  cooked  beets,  chopped,  three  tablespoons  grated  horse- 
radish root,  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  two  teaspoons  powdered  sugar, 
one  scant  teapsoon  salt;  mix  in  order  given;  bottled  horseradish  may  be 
used  if  drained  well;  this  is  delicious  with  cold  meat  or  fish. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

Twenty  good  sized  ripe  tomatoes,  four  large  stalks  celery,  four 
large  onions,  eight  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  one  green  pepper,  one  red  pepper,  salt  to  taste;  boil  tomatoes 
until  ripe  and  run  through  colander;  boil  altogether  one  and  one-half 
hours;    seal.  Sadie  I.   Powers,   P.   M. 

CHILI    SAUCE 

Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  eight  onions,  eight  green  peppers;  chop 
all  fine  and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour;  add  two  teaspoons  brown  sugar, 
two  teaspoons  ground  allspice,  two  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon,  two  tea* 
spoons  ground  ginger,  two  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  two  teaspons  celery 
seed,  two  teaspoons  mustard  seed,  six  cups  vinegar;  cook  again  until 
done;  one  hour  or  more.  Florence  Bland,  P.  M. 

CHILI    SAUCE 

One  peck  red  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  three  large  red  peppers, 
one-half  cup  salt,  one  pound  sugar,  one  quart  vingear  (white),  one 
tablespoonful  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg;  boil  three 
hours.  Selma  Olson. 

CHILI   SAUCE 

Twelve  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  four  onions,  three  red  peppers,  all 
chopped  fine;  add  four  level  tablespoons  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  vinegar;  tie  four  teaspoons  whole  allspice,  two  teaspoons  celery  seed, 
two  teaspoons  whole  cloves  and  a  few  bay  leaves  in  a  bag;  boil  all 
together  one  and  one-half  hours.  Hannah  Hauff, 

P.  M.,  Valparaiso  Chapter 

CHILI    SAUCE 

One  peck  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  up,  two  cups  chopped  onions, 
one  cup  chopped  red  peppers,  five  stalks  of  celery  chopped,  one-half 
cup  of  salt,  one  cup  sugar,  three  pints  vinegar;  boil  three  hours,  after 
it  comes  to  boil;   bottle  hot. 

Milada  Koren. 
W.  M.  Prague  Chapter. 


88  PICKLES     AND    RELISHES 

CHILI    SAUCE 

Twenty-four  large  tomatoes  (skinned),  one-quarter  peck  onions, 
one  dozen  red  peppers,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one  table- 
spoonful  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger;   boil  until  thick.  Lena  Engelhardt. 

CORN    RELISH 

One  dozerf  ears  corn,  one  head  cabbage,  two  and  one-half  cups  brown 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  celery  seed,  three  pints  vinegar,  three  tablespoons 
ground  mustard,  six  large  green  peppers,  two  large  red  peppers  (seeds 
removed);  salt  to  taste;  cook  twenty-five  minutes  and  can  hot. 

Grace  Shoemaker. 

CUCUMBER   PICKLES 

Twelve  small  cucumbers  washed  and  sliced,  but  not  peeled,  six 
button  onions;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  one  hour;  drain  and  add 
to  each  quart  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  cassia  buds, 
one  teaspoon  white  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoon  tumeric,  one  teaspoon 
salt;  heat  vinegar  and  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients;  scald  but  do 
not  boil;  pour  over  pickles.  Lillian  Cermak, 

W.  M.,  Willard  Chapter. 

INDIAN    RELISH 

Chop  one  peck  green  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night  in  salt; 
in  the  morning  drain  and  add  one  quart  chopped  celery,  two  large 
onions,  two  quarts  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
red  pepper,  twelve  tablespoonfuls  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  mustard, 
one  tablespoonful  tumeric;  boil  all  together  until  tender,  then  add  flour 
to  thicken.  Dessie   Reynolds.' 

PEPPER   RELISH 

Twelve  green  peppers,  twelve  red  peppers,  twelve  medium-sized 
onions;  remove  seeds  from  peppers,  chop  them  (not  too  fine);  keep 
each  separate  and  pour  boiling  water  on  each  and  let  stand  ten  min- 
utes; then  drain  and  mix  together;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  cider 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed;  cook  thirty  minutes. 

.Margaret  Gildner, 

PEPPER    AND    ONION     RELISH 

Eight  sweet  green  peppers,  four  red  peppers,  six  large  onions,  two 
cups  sugar,  two  cups  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  salt.  Remove  seeds  from 
peppers  and  put  through  food  chopper.  Pour  boiling  water  over  chopped 
peppers  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Drain  and  mix  with  onions  which 
have  also  been  put  through  the  chopper,  sugar,  vinegar  and  salt.  Cook 
one-half  hour  and  seal.  Emily  Gauger. 

PICCALILLI 

One  large  head  of  cabbage,  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  ten  red 
peppers,  six  large  onions,  ten  cents  mustard  seed,  chop  cabbage  and 
green  tomatoes,  salt,  and  drain  over  night;  boil  twelve  cups  of  vinegar 
and  ten  cups  of  sugar  with  all  the  rest;  boil  thoroughly  one  hour. 

Lena  Engelhardt. 


PICKLES    AND    RELISHES  89 

PICCALILLI 

One  box  green  tomatoes,  one-half  peck  onions  (slice  both  and  lay 
in  salt  over  night),  one  large  cabbage,  six  red  peppers,  five  cents  mixed 
spices,  three  pounds  sugar,  one  gallon  white  vinegar;  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes and  then  seal  while  hot.  Jennie  Johnson. 

PICKLED  WATERMELON    RIND 

Four  quarts  pared  and  cut  rind,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  cups 
cider  vinegar,  two  level  teaspoons  mace,  4  tablespoons  broken  cinna- 
mon sticks,  two  level  teaspoons  cloves,  four  tablespoons  ginger  root 
or  sliced  lemon.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
half  of  the  rind  and  boil  slowly  until  tender  and  clear.  Remove  rind, 
pack  in  jar  and  fill  with  syrup.  Put  other  half  of  rind  in  remaining 
syrup  and  proceed   as   before.  Caroline   Koford. 

PLUM   CATSUP 

Four  quarts  of  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper;  pour 
one  quart  of  water  over  plums  and  boil;  press  through  coarse  sieve, 
return  to  kettle  and  stir  in  sugar  and  spices;  boil  till  done;  bottle  hot. 
Delicious  with  cold  meat.  Dagmar  Stevens,  W.  M. 

SPICED  CRANBERRIES 

One  pint  berries,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one-half 
cup  of  raisins,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful 
cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  vinegar;  cook  slowly,  and  when  nearly  done 
add  one-half  cup  chopped  walnuts.     A  splendid  relish  for  meats. 

Sadie  I.  Powers,  P.  M. 

SPICED  CUCUMBERS 

One  peck  small  cucumbers  (green),  one-half  peck  onions,  four 
quarts  white  vinegar,  six  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls dill  (seed  of  the  plant),  two  tablespoonfuls  tumeric  powder;  cook 
until  tender;  slice  cucumber  and  onions  in  four  tablespoonfuls  salt 
over  night,  no  water.  Jennie  Johnson. 

SWEET   PICKLED   PEACHES  OR    PEARS 

Seven  pounds  peaches,  five  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  cup 
water,  two-thirds  cup  stick  cinnamon,  one-third  cup  whole  cloves;  pare 
the  peaches;  have  ready  a  syrup  made  of  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  water; 
add  the  spices;  then  add  a  few  of  the  peaches  with  one  or  two  cloves 
pressed  into  each;  let  cook  for  a  few  minutes;  put  the  peaches  in  jars: 
when  all  are  cooked  fill  to  overflowing  with  syrup;  pears  may  be  cooked 
without  peeling;  if  they  are  hard  they  should  be  cooked  tender  in  boiling 
water  before  putting  them  in  the  syrup. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 


90  PICKLES    AND     RELISHES 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES  91 

EXCELS  IN  BAKING  EFFICIENCY  AND 
HEALTHFULNESS 

RUMFORD 

The  Wholesome 

Baking  Powder 


ADDS  TO  BREAD,  CAKE  AND  PASTRY 
THE  LACKING  PHOSPHATE  ELEMENT  SO 
ESSENTIAL  TO  HEALTH,  FOUND  IN  MEAT 
AND  ENTIRE  GRAINS. 


//  You  Kneip 

What  makes  the  difference  between  pure 
milk  and  the  other  kind,  you  wouldn't 
hesitate   about   having 

BORDEN'S 


mJ 


92  SANDWICHES 


Sandwiches 


"With  these,  she  treats  both  commoners  and  quality, 
Who  praise,  where'er  they  go,  her  hospitality" 

A   FEW  SIMPLE   SANDWICHES 

1.  Finely    ground    ham,    mixed    with    salad    dressing    and    chopped 
pickles. 

2.  Young  onions  chopped  and  mixed  with  salad  dressing,  or  sliced 
and  mixed  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. 

3.  Lettuce,  shredded  fine  and  mixed  with  salad  dressing. 

4.  Thin  slices  of  tomato  with  mayonnaise. 

5.  Sliced  cucumbers  with  salad  dressing. 

6.  Hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  with  dressing. 

7.  Sardines  mashed  and  mixed  with  oil. 

8.  Chopped  pimentoes  with  salad  dressing. 

9.  Ground  salted  peanuts  mixed  with  cream. 

10.  Cream  cheese  and  nut  meats  chopped. 

11.  If  a  sweet  sandwich  is  desired  use  any   tasty  jelly,   nut  meats, 
dates  or  figs  chopped. 

12.  Strawberries  sliced  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  sweetened  a  trifle  and  put 
between  slices  of  white  bread,  makes  a  delicious  sandwich. 

Sophie  Knoeppel. 

BANANA  AND   NUT  SANDWICH 

Chop    bananas   and    walnuts    together   and    mix    with    mayonnaise; 
spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

DATE  AND   NUT  SANDWICH 

Chop  one  cup  dates  and  one-half  cup  walnuts;  mix  with  mayonnaise 
and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread. 

Charlotte  Babbe. 


SANDWICHES  93 


i 


0 \^4st^Us4*~-<Ju'  ^J*^0  &1"  sG^^&dL 

Id,    * 


94 


FAVORITE  TESTED  RECIPES 


Swaim=Cornish  Company 

4050  Armitage  Avenue 

"OLD  FURNITURE  MADE  LIKE  NEW" 

—  Repairing  —  Upholstering  —  Refinishing  — 
HIGH  GRADE  PARLOR  FURNITURE 

MADE  TO  ORDER 

Phone  Belmont  2364 


Telephone  Humboldt  5631 

Tuning-,  Polishing-  and  Repairing 

BOLLER  PIANO  COMPANY 

PIANOS,  PLAYER  PIANOS 
Victrolas  and  Records 

Easy  Payments 
2381    Milwaukee  Avenue 


SALADS     AND     SALAD     DRESSINGS  95 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 

"At  their  savory  dinner,  set  herbs  and  other  country  messes, 
Which  the  neat  handed  Phyllis  dresses.** 

— Milton. 

APPLE,  DATE  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

One  large  apple  pared,  cored  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  squeeze  over 
it  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon;  pour  boiling  water  over  one-half  pound 
dates;  wash,  drain  and  dry  in  oven;  cut  into  lengthwise  pieces;  also  cut 
a  large  stalk  celery  in  small  pieces.  Mix  all  together,  add  dressing 
and  mix  again.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

BARLEY  SALAD 

One-third  cup  barley,  one-quarter  cup  chopped  peanuts,  one 
pimento  (chopped),  two  large  apples,  one  stalk  celery;  soak  barley 
over  night  and  cook  until  soft;  drain,  then  add  chopped  nuts,  pimento, 
apples  cut  in  dice  and  celery  cut  fine;  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  on  shredded  lettuce  leaves. 

Frida  Karnatz. 

BEAN   SALAD 

One  quart  of  string  beans,  one  onion  sliced  very  fine,  four  slices  of 
bacon,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  two  dessert  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one -quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Deli- 
cious with  cold  meats.  Cook  beans  until  tender;  add  onion;  cook  bacon 
until  brown,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  before  or  after  cooking;  add  vin- 
egar, sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  bacon  and  gravy  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  pour  over  beans  and  onion,  and  when  cooked  put  into  icebox 
until  ready  to  serve.  This  will  keep  for  week  or  more.  Baked  beans, 
lima  beans,  kidney  beans  or  wax  beans  may  be  used  instead  of  string 
beans  if  desired.  Grace  M.  Hay, 

W.  M.  Austin  Chapter. 

CABBAGE  SALAD  OR  COLD  SLAW 

One  small  head  cabbage  chopped  fine;  make  dressing  by  whipping 
two-thirds  cup  thick  sour  cream,  add  one-third  cup  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoonsful  sugar;  pour  over  cabbage.  Caroline  Koford. 

CHICKEN    SALAD 

Boil  one  chicken  tender,  cut  up;  chop  fine  the  white  of  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  add  to  chicken,  also  one  large  stalk  of  celery,  one -half 
green  pepper,  one-half  red  pepper,  chopped  fine;  mash  the  yolks  very 
fine,  add  two  tablespoonsful  butter  or  mix  them  with  olive  oil,  one  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  dry  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
add  to  this  mixture  one-half  cup  vinegar,  mix  well  and  pour  over  salad 
and  mix  all  thoroughly;  let  stand  several  hours;  line  a  salad  dish  with 
lettuce,  garnish  with  olives,  chopped  eggs,  peppers  and  parsley. 

Hattie  Melind. 


¥ 


96  SALADS     AND     SALAD     DRESSINGS 


COMBINATION    FRUIT  SALAD 

Three  large  apples,  three  large  oranges,  three  large  tomatoes,  one 
small  can  pimento,  one  cup  walnut  meats;  chop  all  into  small  squares: 
three  stalks  celery  cut  fine;  to  this  add  salt  enough  to  taste;  then  take 
one  package  lemon  jello,  dissolve  in  one  pint  boiling  water,  and  when 
cool  pour  over  fruit,  put  into  moulds  and  let  stand  until  solid;  to  turn 
out  easily  put  moulds  into  hot  water  for  a  second  and  turn  out  upon 
nice  crisp  lettuce  leaf;    serve  with   mayonnaise  dressing. 

Oharlotte  Olsen,  P.  M. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE   WITH    DATES 

One-half  cupful  stoned  dates,  one  and  one-half  cupful  cottage 
cheese;  cut  dates  in  halves  and  steam  until  tender  enough  to  pierce 
easily  with  a  fork ;  when  cool  mix  lightly  with  the  cheese,  chill  and 
serve  with  cream  and  toasted  wafers  as  a  luncheon  dish.  Enough  to 
serve  three.  Laura  Anderson. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

One  pineapple,  one-half  dozen  bananas,  one  pound  sweet  cherries 
(cut  small).  Dressing:  Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup 
water,  one-quarter  cup  vinegar,  one-third  teaspoonful  mustard;  boil 
till  thick  in  double  boiler;  when  cold  mix  with  one-half  pint  of  cream 
whipped   stiff,   and   add   to   fruit.  .  Elsie   J.   Otto, 

W.  M.  Ravenswood  Chapter. 

GOOD   SALAD    DRESSING 

One  cup  of  vinegar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  and  one-half  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonsful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonsful  mustard, 
two   cups  of  water;    mix  dry   ingredients,   stir   in   water,    pour   into   hot 


vinegar    and    butter    and    boil:     when    used,    thin    with    sour    cream    as 


desired.  Ellen   W.   Hansen. 

KIDNEY     BEAN     SALAD 

Drain  juice  from  one  can  kidney  beans,  add  one  cup  walnuts. 
slightly  broken,  one  cup  celery,  cut  fine,  and  about  six  olives,  chopped; 
mix  all  together  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Minnie  Krempel. 

LOBSTER  SALAD 

Break  the  contents  of  a  can  of  lobster  into  small  pieces,  add  three 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  add  mayonnaise  dressing;  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

MACARONI    SALAD 

One  package  of  macaroni  (short),  one-half  "pound  of  boiled  ham 
ground,  pimientos  to  taste,  twelve  sweet  pickles  sliced  fine,  one  onion, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;   mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Maida  A.  Gnadt. 


SALADS     AND     SALAD     DRESSINGS  97 

MARSHMALLOW     FRUIT    SALAD 

One  can  shredded  pineapple,  one  pound  marshmallows,  cut  in  quar- 
ters, one  cup  shelled  nuts,  chopped,  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  tablespoons- 
ful  sour  cream;  mix  the  above  with  a  boiled  dressing;  chill  thoroughly; 
just  before  serving,  add  one  cup  or  more  of  whipped  cream. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.   M. 

MAYONNAISE.  DRESSING 

A  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cayenne,  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  one  pint  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonsful  vinegar  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  lemon  juice;  mix  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  in  a  deep,  cold 
dish,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  well  with  a  silver  fork;  add  olive  oil, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  thin  with  lemon 
juice;  add  oil  and  lemon  juice  alternately  and  lastly  the  vinegar,  being 
careful  to  add  small  quantities  at  a  time  to  keep  it  thick. 

Marie  Baumgarten. 

MAYONNAISE     DRESSING 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  tablespoonful  mustard, 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  cup  water,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  egg;  beat 
up  good  and  boil;   when  cold  thin  with  milk  or  cream. 

Emma  McKinney. 

ORANGE   SALAD 

Peel  and  slice  one-half  dozen  oranges,  one-half  can  of  pineapple, 
one  small  cup  of  nuts,  one  small  box  of  marshmallows;  serve  with 
mayonnaise  on  lettuce  leaves.  .Margaret  Gildner. 

OYSTER    SALAD 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  fresh  oysters,  put  them  in  hoi 
vinegar,  enough  to  cover  them;  place  over  fire,  let  them  remain  until 
plump,  but  not  cooked,  then  drop  them  immediately  in  cold  water;  drain 
off  and  mix  with  them  two  pickled  cucumbers  cut  fine,  also  a  quart 
of  celery,  diced;  salt  and  pepper;  mix  all  well  together,  poufr  over  the 
whole  mayonnaise  dressing,  garnish  with  celery  tips  and  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  arranged  tastefully.  Emma  McKinney. 

PLAIN    BOILED   SALAD   DRESSING 

une -fourth  cup  butter,  two  tablespoonsful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  dry 
mustard,  two  tablespoonsful  sugar,  one-half  cup  each  vinegar  and  water, 
one  egg,  well  beaten,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
pepper;  melt  butter  and  add  flour,  mustard,  salt,  pepper  and  sugar;  add 
vinegar  and  water,  stirring  constantly;  remove  from  fire  and  add  egg 
and  juice  of  one  lemon.     When  ready  to  serve  thin  with  cream  or  milk. 

I  lazel  Larsen 

PIMENTO   SALAD 

Dissolve  one  package  lemon  jello  in  one  pint  boiling  water,  add  two 
tablespoonsful  vinegar;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  one-half  cup 
each  chopped  pimentoes,  celery  and  nuts,  one-fourth  cup  chopped  sweel 
pickles  and,  if  desired,  thin- slices  of  radishes;  cool  in. molds  and  serve 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 


98  SALADS     AND    SALAD     DRESSINGS 

PINEAPPLE   SALAD 

Place  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  shredded  lettuce,  put  salad  dressing 
on,  then  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  place  cherry  on  top. 

Dessie  Reynolds. 

PINEAPPLE   AND   DATE   SALAD 

Lettuce,  Hawaiian  pineapple,  dates,  Maraschino  cherries.  Take  for 
each  service  a  lettuce  leaf;  on  this  place  a  slice  of  pineapple;  split 
open  and  stone  the  dates  and  lay  them  in  a  circle  on  the  pineapple; 
in  the  center  pile  a  few  Maraschino  cherries;  serve  with  a  French 
dressing  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  best  oil,  four  tablespoonfuls  pine- 
apple juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Marie  Konzelman. 

POTATO   SALAD 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes,  boil  ten  minutes;  cut  one-quarter  pound 
salt  pork  in  cubes,  fry  with  four  onions  chopped  fine;  add  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  one-quarter  cup  water,  lastly  one  beaten  egg;  season  to  taste 
and  pour  over  potatoes.  Selma  Olson. 

POTATO   SALAD 

Peel  and  cut  eight  large  potatoes,  add  one  can  of  green  or  yellow 
beans,  one  can  of  peas,  one  stalk  of  celery,  one  cucumber  (sliced),  one 
bunch  of  radishes,  a  few  nut  meats  (chopped),  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
with  mustard  dressing;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  (sifted  together),  add  one-half  cup  of  water,  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar;  beat  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  put  in  mixture;  after  removing 
from  fire  add  whites  beaten  to  stiff  froth;  if  too  stiff  thin  with  milk; 
will  make  a  pint  of  dressing.  Laura  Andersen. 

RED    VEGETABLE    SALAD 

One  pint  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  pint  cold  boiled  beets,  one  pint  un- 
cooked rel  cabbage,  six  tablespoonsful  olive  oil,  eight  tablespoonsful 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cut  vegetables  into  thin  slices  and 
add  oil  and  vinegar;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  one  hour  before  serving. 

Marie  Baumgarten. 

SALMON    SALAD 

Mix  well  one  can  salmon,  one  cup  each  chopped  celery  and  boiled 
beets.  Dressing:  Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  cup  vinegar;  let  come  to  boil, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  tablespoonful 
sugar,  one  level  teaspoonful  mustard;  pour  over  salmon  while  hot. 

Mabel  Peterson. 


SALAD   DRESSING 


Three-quarters  cup  of  vinegar,,  one-quarter  cup  of  water,. three- 
quarters  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  when  cool  thin  with  w*hipped  cream. 

Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 


99 


SALAD    DRESSING 

One-half  cup  sugar,  six  egg  yolks,  one  and  one-half  cups  vinegar, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  one 
tablespoonful  butter;   boil  until  thick;  when  cool  thin  with  cream. 

Emily  Gauger. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Select  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  of  equal  size,  scald  and  peel;  cover  with 
cracked  ice,  let  stand  until  chilled;  scoop  out  the  centers,  leaving  firm 
and  perfect  shells.  Take  one-half  can  of  French  peas,  one  small  can 
of  shrimp,  season  with  celery  salt,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
place  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  each.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Margaret  J.  Gildner, 

STUFFED   EGG  SALAD 

Four  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  cupful  of  cooked  peas,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste;  cut  the  eggs  lengthwise 
and  remove  the  yolks  carefully,  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  shape  of  the  egg 
cases;  crumble  the  yolks  into  the  melted  butter,  add  the  seasoning  and 
the  cold  peas,  season  the  inside  of  the  whites  with  salt  and  pepper; 
place  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each  one;  place  on  a  platter  gar- 
nished with  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  small 
balls  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  and  fancy  cut  beets  and  carrots  help  the 
color  scheme.  Frieda  Peters, 

Worthy  Matron  of  Maplewood  Chapter. 

THOUSAND   ISLAND    DRESSING 
One  cup  mayonnaise,  one  tablespoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  one- 
feurth  cup  chili  sauce,  two  pimentoes,  one-fourth  cup  French  dressing; 
chop  pimentoes  and  combine  ingredients  just  before  serving. 

Maude  Rice,  W.  M.,  Woodlawn  Chapter. 

TUNA    FISH    SALAD 

One   can   tuna   fish,   one   can   peas;    mix   well   and   add   mayonnaise 
dressing.  Minnie  Anderson. 

TUNA   FISH    SALAD 

Two   cups  of  tuna  fish,   one   cup  of  celery   (cut  fine);    season   and 
mix;   pour  a  mayonnaise  dressing  over  top.  « 

Bertha  Palmetier,  P.  M. 


<r- 


|W*  i^  a*d*£  _  &ZU-U-  r  *  f- 

6      /p>LL* 


.C-tAO 


d^&dtt*    ^uc^iy^ 


t 


0' 


100  SALADS   AND   SALAD   DRESSING 


I 


HUMBOLDT  PARK  CHAPTER  COOK  BOOK  101 

TRY  KAISER'S  MARKET  HOUSE 

1666   NO.  CALIFORNIA  AVENUE 

For  Anything   in  the   Grocery  and   Meat  Line 

Meats  That  Are  Tender  Eggs  That  Are  Fresh 

Butter  That  Is  Sweet 

Orders  delivered  Phone  Humboldt  5604 

Phones,  Armitage  2011— Humboldt  2272  Established  1889 

L.  A.  LEISTIKOW 

WHOLESALE 

FRESH  FISH  AND   OYSTERS 

And  All  Kinds  of  Imported  Canned  Goods 

2700  W.   North  Avenue 

1608-10  N.  Washtenaw  Avenue  CHICAGO 

J.  &.  Hulvald 

JEWELER 

3136  Armitage  Avenue 
At   Kedzie 

Watches,   Clocks,  Jewelry,  Eye   Glasses  Repaired 

i  -  — 

For  "SQUARE"   Dealing 

LES  LI  E'S 

3525-3527  Armitage  Avenue 

DRY  GOODS  AND  FURNISHINGS 
"We  Are  On  The  Square" 

HALDEWANG,  BERNARTZ  &  CO., 


HARDWARE,   PAINTS 

Stoves,    Furnaces   and   Specialties 

3247  Armitage  Avenue  Phone  Belmont  7754 


102  S  O  U  P  S 

Soups 

"Of  a  good  beginning  cometh  a  good  end." 

CELERY  SOUP 

Two  stalks  celery,  four  or  five  potatoes  cut  fine,  three  onions;  all 
stewed  about  twenty  minutes  in  just  a  little  water;  add  one  quart  or 
more  milk,  and  let  come  to  boil';    season. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  W.   M. 

CORN    CHOWDER 

Salt  pork  about  two  inches  thick  and  three  inches  long.  Cut  in 
dice  and  fry,  add  one  onion  (medium)  cut  small  and  fry  brown,  add  one 
large  potato  diced  and  just  enough  water  to  cover;  when  potato  is 
almost  done  add  one-half  can  corn  and  two  cups  milk;  bring  to  boil 
and  serve  hot.  Grace  Shoemaker. 

CORN   SOUP 

One  can  corn,  one  quart  water,  one  quart  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  chopped  onion;    boil  ten  minutes;    season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

CREAM   OF  ONION    SOUP 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  or  substitute;  add  one  pint  of  sliced 
onions  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  keeping  covered  so  they  won': 
brown;  add  three  cups  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  soft  enough 
to  put  through  a  sieve  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  make  a  white 
sauce  of  two  tablespoons  butter  or  substitute,  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoon cornstarch,  three  cups  hot  milk,  which  has  been  scalded,  with  a 
bay  leaf  and  a  bit  of  mace;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  to  onion  puree 
and  serve.  Maude  Rice. 

W.  M.  Woodlawn,  Chapter. 


DUMPLINGS   FOR   SOUP 

Let  one  large  cup  milk  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter  come  to 
a  boil;  then  stir  in  one  cup  flour  while  boiling;  stir  until  it  forms  a 
ball;  then  beat  in  two  eggs  and  add  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt;  drop 
by  small  spoonfuls  into  boiling  soup;  let  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Mabel  Petersen. 

•  EGG   DUMPLINGS 

One  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  beat  the  egg  till  light. 
add  the  milk  and  mix;  sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  and 
add  the  egg  and  milk  to  form  a  heavy  batter,  using  a  little  more  milk 
if  necessary;  drop  by  spoonful  into  hot  gravy  and  cook  fifteen  minutes 
without  removing  cover.  Ella  M.  Richardson. 


SOUPS  103 

MOCK  CLAM   CHOWDER 

One-half  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  in  cubes,  let  brown;  two  or 
three  parsnips  cut  in  cubes;  1  onion  cut  up;  when  cubes  of  fat  get 
brown  pour  water  on  and  put  in  parsnips  and  onion;  then  peel  five 
potatoes  and  cut  in  cubes  and  put  in  with  the  other  things.  Then  one 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  all  until  tender.  When  all  are  tender  put  one 
teacup  of  milk  or  cream  in  and  stir  some  flour  in  water  and  add  to  all 
this  so  it  gets  as  thick  as  you  like  it;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Laura  Anderson. 

PEA   SOUP 

One  cup  dried  peas  soaked  in  two  and  yone- half  quarts  cold  water 
ten  to  twelve  hours;  cook  until  soft  with  one  or  two  onions;  rub 
through  a  sieve;  make  a  white  sauce  of  two  cups  milk,  one  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika  and  a  little 
butter  or  substitute;  dilute  with  water  in  which  peas  were  cooked. 

Caroline  Koford. 

TOMATO   SOUP 

One  quart  can  tomatoes,  one  pint  hot  water,  two  level  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  cloves,  ten  or  twelve  peppercorns,  or 
one  saltspoonful  white  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  one  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch.  Put  the  tomatoes,  water,  sugar,  salt,  cloves  and 
peppercorns  on  to  boil  in  a  porcelain  stewpan;  put  the  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan,  and  when  it  bubbles  put  in  the  onion  and  parsley;  fry 
five  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it;  add  the  cornstarch,  and  when 
well  mixed  stir  it  into  the  tomatoes;  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes;  add 
more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed.  Strain,  and  serve  with  plain  boiled 
rice,  or  croutons  (small  cubes  of  bread  fried  in  butter),  or  toasted 
crackers.  Adaline  H.  Schall, 

\V.   M.,  "I  Will"  Chapter. 


104 


SOUPS 


HUMBOLDT  PARK  CHAPTER  COOK  BOOK 


105 


Phone  Monroe  1258  &  6474 


"More  Heat  for  Your  Coal   Money" 


C.  Oberheide  &  Son 


COAL 

MAIN  OFFICE 

1335  BRADLEY  STREET 


OTTO   F.   KNOEPPEL 


CHICAGO 


Automobiles  for  Long  Distance 

Moving 


fire:  proof 

<&>>**»  www  jr*t  *&*~3*     Ji£ :'   dF***    "tO** 
^MILWA'UKEC  *«»NOaTH  AVES,    ■ 


106  VEGETABLES 


Vegetables 

"Variety  great,  to   the  ingenious   maker." 
BAKED   BEANS 

one  quart  beans  soaked  over  night;  put  in  a  bean  pot  or  baking 
dish  in  the  morning  with  one-half  pound  salt  pork,  one  teaspoon  ground 
mustard,  three  tablespoons  molasses,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  bake 
five  hours  slow  oven.  Caroline  Koford. 

BAKED    BEANS 

Here  is  a  modern  hint  for  baking  beans  which  is  very  good.  Since 
the  price  of  salt  pork  soared  above  the  clouds,  one  will  find  a  delicious 
substitute  by  using  for  every  pound  of  beans  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of 
olive  oil.  Camille  Kirby. 

BAKED    BEANS 

Two  cups  of  navy  beans,  four  slices  of  bacon  cut  fine,  two  medium- 
sized  onions  cut  fine,  two  green  pepers  cut  fine,  one  red  pepper  (boil 
onions  and  peppers  fifteen  minutes) ;  when  done  rub  through  a  coarse 
sieve;  salt  to  taste.  Boil  beans  until  tender,  fry  bacon;  when  done 
put  in  onions  and  red  and  green  peppers  and  simmer  one-half  hour; 
mix  all  ingredients,  put  in  a  baking  dish  and  grate  cheese  over  top 
and  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  medium  oven.     Other  beans  may  be  used. 

Bertha  Palmetier,  P.  M. 

CARAMELIZED  SWEET  POTATOES 
<  )ne  dozen  small  sweet  potatoes,  boiled  until  tender;  peel  and  cut 
in  half  and  arrange  in  shallow  baking  dish;  boil  one  cup  water  and  a 
pint  of  brown  sugar  together  for  ten  minutes;  add  one  tablespoon 
butter;  sprinkle  salt  and  cinnamon  over  the  potatoes;  then  pour  the 
syrup  over  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  brown. 

Esther  Stevens,  P.  M. 

DELICATE   CABBAGE 

One  small  cabbage  cut  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  table  - 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  put  the 
butter  in  a  skillet  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  the  flour;  then  add  the 
cabbage,  stirring  it  in  thoroughly;  then  add  milk  and  seasoning;  cover 
it  closely  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes. 

Martha  Clendenin. 

NOODLES 
Beat  two  eggs  well;  add  pinch  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  dough: 
knead  well  on  floured  board;    roll  out  thin;   let  dry;    cut  in  slices  one 
quarter  of  an  inch  wide;  boil  in  salt  water  and  leave  until  they  come  to 
the    surface;    then    drain;    brown    buttered    bread    crumbs,    spread    over 
top  and  serve.  Anna   Scheer. 

POTATO  CAKES    . 
Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  yolk  of  one 
egg;   add  one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  three  or  four  tablespoons  flour,  salt 
and  pepper;    must  be  firm  enough  to  take  up  in   floured  hands  and   to 
keep  shape,  but  not  tdo  stiff;  fry  in  hot  drippings  or  butter. 

Esther  Stevens.   P.   M. 


VEGETABLES  107 


POTATO   DUMPLINGS 

Boil  some  potatoes,  let  stand  until  cold;  peel  and  grate;  mix  with 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one  egg,  one  cup  farina,  some  brown  bread  crumbs; 
add  enough  flour  to  make  dumplings;  boil  in  salt  water  about  one-half 
hour.     Serve  with  spiced  meat.     (See  meats.) 

Anna   Scheer. 

POTATOES 

With  roast  meats  serve  potatoes  mashed  or  roasted  in  the  pan 
with  the  meat. 

With  fricasseed  meats  serve  baked  potatoes. 

Serve  potatoes  plain  boiled  only  when  new. 

With  broiled  steak  serve  creamed  potatoes  and  a  crisp  fried  vege- 
table, like  egg  plant. 

With  roast  pork  serve  baked  potatoes,  a  green  vegetable  and  a 
sour  apple  sauce. 

With  roast  beef  serve  potatoes  baked  in  the  pan  and  a  sweet 
watermelon  or  peach  pickle. 

With  roast  chicken  serve  mashed  potatoes,  onions  and  a  sour  jelly. 

With  roast  lamb  serve  mashed  potatoes,  green  peas  or  string  beans 
and  a  mint  sauce. 

For  dinner  salads  use  only  the  simple  green  salads,  with  French 
dressing. 

Marie  J.  Konzelman. 

SCALLOPED   CORN 

Three  beaten  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  (scant),  one 
package  Uneeda  Biscuit  (excepting  five);  dot  with  small  pieces  of 
butter;   salt  and  pepper  to  taste;   bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

.Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

SCALLOPED   POTATOES 

Put  layer  of  sliced   raw   potatoes   in  baking   dish,   season,   dot  with 

bits  of  butter,  a  few  slices  of  onions  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over;  add 

another  layer  of  potatoes  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full;    pour  over  this, 

hot   milk   and   sprinkle   cracker   crumbs   over   the   top.     Bake   one   hour. 

Mabel  Baker,  P.  M. 

SCALLOPED   POTATOES   WITH    CHEESE 
Slice  raw  potatoes  and  grated  cheese  and  dry  bread.     Then  put  in 
layers  in  a  bake  dish  having  cheese  for  top  layer;   add  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter;   then  cover  with  milk  and  bake  till  potatoes 
are  soft  and  brown  on  top.  Charlotte  Babbe. 

SPAGHETTI 

Boil  one  package  spaghetti  until  tender.  Drain  and  add  one  can 
tomato  soup,  one  tablespoon  butter  or  a  little  soup  stock,  salt,  pepper, 
dash  of  paprika,  one  green  pepper,  which  has  been  previously  boiled 
soft  and  chopped;  boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes. 

Clara  Swanson. 

SPAGHETTI    EN   CASSEROLE 

One  package  spaghetti  (ten  cent  size)  boiled,  put  in  casserole,  add 
two  sweet  peppers  cut  fine,  two  small  onions,  one  stalk  celery,  six 
slices  bacon  (which  has  been  cut  fine  and  fried),  one  small  can  of 
tomatoes;    bake   thirty   minutes  or  a   little  longer  in  a  pretty   hot  oven. 

Nellie  I.  Xeely. 


108  VEGETABLES 


cruf. 


HUMBOLDT  PARK  CHAPTER  COOK  BOOK 


109 


Telephone   Belmont  1172 


FROM  MAKER  TO  WEARER 


The  Knit  Shop 

CARL   F.  SCHUESSLER,  Prop. 

HIGH  GRADE  SWEATERS 
JERSEYS     AND     HOSIERY 


3546   Fullerton  Avenue 


CHICAGO 


Telephone  Belmont  2623 

THE  NEW  STYLE  CLOAK  STORE 

G.  REDMAN,  Proprietor 

Cloaks,    Suits,    Dresses   and   Skirts 

3579  Fullerton  Avenue  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


MISS  ALMA   LAW 


PHONE   BELMONT  2383 


<gEAUTYSHOP 


2532  MILWAUKEE  AVENUE 


Four  doors  east  of 
Logan   Square  Theatre 


CHICAGO 


Belmont  2206 


INSURANCE  OF  ALL  KINDS 

2530  Milwaukee  Avenue  CHICAGO 


110  HELPFUL  RULES  FOR  COOKING 

TO  TELL  A  GOOD  HOUSEWIFE 

How  can  I  tell  her'.' 
By  her  cellar,  cleanly  shelves 
And   whitened  walls; 
I  can  guess  her  by  her  dresser, 
By. the  back  staircase  and  halls, 
And  with  pleasure  take  her  measure 
By  the  way  she  keeps  her  brooms; 
Or  in  peeping  at  the  "keeping" 
Of  her  back  and  "unseen"  rooms; 
By  her  kitchen's  air  of  neatness 
And  its  general  completeness. 
Where  is  cleanliness  and  sweetness, 
The  rose  of  order  blooms. 

TABLE   SERVICE 

Directions   for    Laying    the    Dinner   Table    for    Formal    Service 

Cover  the  table  with  knitted  table  padding  or  double-faced  cotton 
flannel  and  a  damask  cloth. 

Decorations — preferably  flowers  or  choice  fruit — should  be  simple 
and  low  or  quite  high,  so  as  not  to  obstruct  the  view  across  the  table. 

A  ten -inch  plate,  called  the  service  plate,  marks  the  center  of  the 
"cover." 

By  the  "cover"  is  meant  the  plate,  silver,  glasses,  napkin,  etc. 
in  place  for  one  person. 

From  twenty  to  thirty  inches  in  length  is  allowed  for  each  cover; 
the  depth  should  be  about  sixteen  inches. 

Salt  and  pepper  shakers  are  set  betwTeen  each  two  individuals  at 
table  on  a  line  with  the  upper  edge  of  each  cover. 

Knives,  forks  and  spoons  are  set  in  the  order  of  their  use,  the  first 
used  farthest  from  the  plate.  The  knives  are  set  on  the  right  of  the 
plate,  the  forks  on  the  left,  the  soup  spoons  beyond  the  knives.  The 
oyster  fork  is  laid  diagonally  across  the  soup  spoon  or  on  a  line  with  it 
and  beyond  it.  Silver  for  entrees  and  dessert  is  set  in  place  at  time 
of  use.    • 

The  cutting  edges  of  knives  are  toward  the  plates,  the  tines  of  the 
forks  and  the  edge  of  the  soup  spoon  upward. 

The  glass  for  water  is  set  at  the  tip  of  the  knife,  the  tiny  butter 
plate  when  used  is  set  to  the  left  of  the  glass  for  water.  Bread  and 
butter  plates  with  "spreaders"  are  reserved  for  home  use  and  less 
formal  meals  than  dinner. 

The  napkin  may  be  laid  at  the  left  of  the  forks,  on  the  service  palte 
when  this  is  not  used  for  other  purpose,  or,  it  may  be  folded  again  and 
set  above  the  service  plate. 

Set  food  before  those  at  table  from  the  right.  Pass  all  food  from 
which  each  is  to  take  a  portion  from  the  left. 


HELPFUL  RULES  FOR  COOKING  111 

PROPER  FOOD  COMBINATIONS 

With  soup,  pass  olives  and  celery  or  radishes  and  bread  sticks. 
With  meats  and  fish,  it  is  customary  to  serve  one  starchy  vegetable 
and  one  green  vegetable;  the  latter  is  often  served  in  the  form  of  salad. 

With  roast  beef,  serve  potatoes,  mashed  or  scalloped,  and  any  one 
of  the  following  vegetables:  Cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  tomatoes 
stewed  or  scalloped,  onions,  green  corn,  new  beets,  peas.  If  a  salad 
is  the  choice,  let  it  be  of  endive,  cress,  celery  or  lettuce  with  French 
dressing.  Dessert:  Pineapple  tapioca  whip,  pineapple  sponge,  or  similar 
light  dish. 

With  beefsteak  or  lamb  chops,  let  the  potatoes  be  baked,  French 
fried,  fried  or  creamed,  or  sweet  potatoes  baked  or  broiled;  the  other 
vegetables  should  be  the  same  as  for  roast  beef  and  the  steak  should  be 
spread  with  creamed  butter,  mixed  with  lemon  juice  and  chopped  par- 
sley.    Dessert:     Cottage  pudding,  prune  whip. 

With  stewed  or  braised  beef,  serve  boiled  potatoes,  parsnips,  turnips, 
carrots,  onions,  peas  or  beans.  For  dessert:  apple,  prune  or  cranberry 
pie.  gingerbread  or  chocolate  cake  with  whipped  cream. 

With  roast  lamb,  serve  potatoes,  green  peas,  string  beans,  spinach, 
beet  greens,  summer  squash,  new  turnips,  asparagus,  and  mint  sauce  ox 
mint  jelly.  Select  dessert  from  custard  pie,  rhubarb  pie,  custard 
souffle,  sponge  cake  with  strawberries. 

With  roast  chicken  and  turkey,  serve  mashed  white  potatoes,  sweet 
potatoes  southern  style,  rice,  squash,  onions,  celery,  raw  or  creamed, 
sweet  pickles  or  cranberry  sauce.  For  dessert:  ice  cream,  sherbet, 
pumpkin  pie.  steamed  pudding. 

With  roast  pork,  serve  white  or  sweet  potatoes,  squash,  onions, 
spinach  creamed  cabbage,  scalloped  tomatoes,  parsnips  and  apple  sauce, 
especially  cider  apple  sauce.  For  dessert:  Baked  Indian  pudding,  bread 
pudding  with  jelly  and  meringue,  ginger  ice  cream,  pumpkin  pie,  prune - 
and-orange  marmalade  jelly,  stewed  figs  with  lemon  jelly  or  cream. 

With  breaded  chops  serve  scalloped  potatoes  and  tomato  sauce. 

With  hot  boiled  ham,  serve  mashed  or-  scalloped  potatoes,  spinach 
and  apple  sauce. 

With  hot  baked  ham,  serve  currant  jelly  sauce,  sweet  potatoes 
southern  style,  spinach    sprouts  or  cauliflower. 

With  boiled  fresh  fish,  serve  boiled  potatoes,  onions,  peas,  parsnips, 
pickle  or  egg  sauce.  For  dessert:  Rhubarb  or  lemon  pie,  pineapple 
Bavarian  cream,  coffee  jelly  with  whipped  cream,  strawberry  shortcake, 
cottage  pudding,  strawberry  hard  sauce. 

With  fried  fish,  serve  sauce  Tartare,  peas,  French  fried  potatoes; 
with  no  sauce,  serve  creamed  potatoes  or  potatoes  in  a  sauce  and 
cucumbers  with  French  dressing. 

With  baked  fish,  serve  Hollandaise  sauce  -or  drawn  butter  sauce  and 
sliced  tomatoes  or  cold  slaw,  mashed  potatoes,  peas.  Cheese  croquettes 
or  souffle,  crackers  and  celery  may  follow. 

With  creamed  fresh  fish,  serve  hot  crisp  rolls  and  olives  or  pickles. 
For  dessert:    Sliced  pineapple. 

With  creamed  salt  codfish,  have  baked  potatoes  and  buttered  beets; 
follow  with  toasted  crackers,  cheese,  lettuce  salad  with  French  dressing 

With  chicken  croquettes,  provide  peas. 

With  fish  croquettes  or  lobster  cutlets,  serve  sauce  Tartare. 


112  HELPFUL   RULES   FOR   COOKING 

MEATS 

Beef,  rolled  rib  or  rump — twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  per  pound. 
Beef,  long  or  short  fillet — twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
Mutton — fifteen  minutes. 
Lamb — fifteen  minutes. 
Veal — twenty  minutes. 
Pork — thirty  minutes. 

Chicken — three  to  four  pounds  weight — one  to  one  and  one-half 
hours. 

Goose,  eight  pounds — two  hours. 
Duck,  tame — forty  to  sixty  minutes. 
Duck,  game — thirty  to  forty  minutes. 
Pigeons — thirty  minutes. 
Turkey,  ten-pound  weight — three  hours. 
Fish,  six  to  eight  pounds,  thin — one  hour. 
Fish,  four  to  six  pounds  thick — one  hour. 
Small  fish — twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

BOILING 

Eggs,  coffee,  clams,  oysters — three  to  five  minutes. 

Rice,  green  corn,  tomatoes,  asparagus,  hard  boiled  eggs — fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes. 

Potatoes,  macaroni,  squash,  celery,  spinach,  sweetheads — twenty  to 
thirty  minutes. 

Young  beets,  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  parsnips,  cauliflower — thirty 
to  forty -five  minutes. 

Young  cabbage,  string  beans,  oyster  plant — forty-five  to  sixty 
minutes. 

Dried  beans,  peas,  etc.,  oatmeal,  hominy  and  wheat — one  to  two 
hours. 

Corned  beef,  smoked  tongue,  beef  a  la  mode — three  to  four  hours. 

Ham — four  to  five  hours. 

Halibut  and  salmon,  per  pound — fifteen  minutes. 

Blue  fish,  bass,  per  pound — ten  minutes.  *- 

Cod,  haddock  and  small  fish,  per  pound — six  minutes. 

TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS 

One  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  three  full  measures  of  flour,  for 
bread. 

One  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  two  full  measures  of  flour,  for 
muffins. 

One  scant  measure  of  liquid  to  one  full  measure  of  flour,  for 
batters. 

One-half  cup  of  yeast  or  one-fourth  of  compressed  yeast  cake,  to 
one  pint  of  liquid. 

One  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  full  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  to 
one  quart  of  flour. 

Four  even  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  one  quart  of  flour. 

One  teaspoon  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  sour  milk. 

One  teaspoon  of  soda  to  one  cup  of  molasses. 


HELPFUL   RULES   FOR   COOKING  113 


[WEIGHTS  &  MEASU 


Three  teaspoonsfuls  of  dry  material  equal  one  tablespoonful. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  a  liquid  equal  one  tablespoonful. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  a  liquid  equal  one-half  gill  or  one-fourth  cup. 

Two  gills  equal  one  cup. 

Two  cups  equal  one  pint. 

Four  cups  of  flour  equal  one  pound  or  one  quart. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  solid,  equal  one  pound. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  solid,  equals  one-fourth  pound,  four  ounces. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  equal  one  pound. 

Two  and  one -half  cups  of  powdered  sugar  equal  one  pound. 

One  pint  of  milk  or  water  equals  one  pound. 

One  pint  chopped  meat  equals  one  pound. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  equal  one  ounce. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  equal  one  ounce. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  equal  one  ounce. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee  equal  one  ounce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  liquid  equals  one -half  ounce. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  equal  two  ounces  or  one-fourth  cup. 

TIME  TABLES  FOR  COOKING— BAKING   BREAD,  CAKE,  ETC. 

Loaf  bread — forty  to  sixty  minutes. 

Rolls  or  biscuit — ten  to  twenty  minutes. 

Gems — thirty  minutes. 

Gingerbread — twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Sponge  cake — forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 

Plain  cake — thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Fruit  cake — two  to  three  hours. 

Layer  cake — fiifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Cookies — ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Bread  pudding — one  hour. 

Rice  and  tapioca — one  hour. 

Plum  pudding — two  to  three  hours. 

Custards — fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Pie  crust — about  thirty  minutes. 

Potatoes — thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Baked  beans — six  to  eight  hours. 

Braised  meat — three  to  four  hours. 

Scalloped  dishes — fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 


114  HELPFUL   RULES   FOR   COOKING 

HINTS  AND   HELPS 

If  one  has  difficulty  in  making  pie  crust  light  and  flaky,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  three  cups  of  flour. 

Mashed  potatoes,  or  any  vegetable,  are  made  light  and  fluffy  by 
adding  one -half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  three  cups  of  mashed 
vegetables. 

Meat — Tough  meat  may  be  made  tender  by  pounding,  slow  cooking 
or  laying  it  a  few  minutes  in  vinegar  water. 

Milk — Before  heating  milk  rinse  out  the  saucepan  with  a  little  hot 
water  (never  boil  milk,  it  toughens  food  materials) ;  it  will  prevent  the 
milk  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

A  pinch  of  soda  stirred  into  milk  that  is  to  be  boiled  will  keep  i. 
from  curdling. 

Cereals — Cereals  should  be  emptied  in  their  proper  receptacles  ol 
tin  or  glass  and  closely  covered  to  prevent  insects  getting  in.  Coffee 
should  go  immediately  into  an  air-tighc  canister  in  order  to  keep  its 
aroma.  Olive  oil  should  be  put  into  a  cool,  dark  place,  and  salt,  baking 
powder,  soap  and  cheese  in  dry  places. 

Flour — Flour  belongs  in  a  bin  or  barrel  raised  a  few  inches  from 
the  floor.  While  wheat  flour  may  be  obtained  in  quantity,  cornmeal  or 
graham  flour  should  only  be  purchased  in  small  quantities  and  kept  in 
tin  or  glass. 

Salt — To  keep  salt  so  it  can  be  easily  shaken  from  the  cruet,  mix 
one  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  with  each  cup  of  salt.  This  will  prove 
effectual. 

Salt  rubbed  on  the  black  spots  on  dishes  will  remove  them,  and  salt 
placed  over  a  fresh  claret  stain  on  the  table  linen  will  assist  it  to  dis- 
appear when  washed. 

It  is  said  that  salt  placed  under  baking  tins  in  the  oven  will  pre- 
vent their  contents  from  scorching  on  the  bottom.  Salt  and  vinegar  wili 
remove  tea.  stains  from  china. 

Ovens — In  all  houses  the  oven  should  be  well  scrubbed  out  after 
cooking  with  hot  soda  water  and  soap.  Any  hard  substance  which  is 
caked  on  to  the  baking  sheets  should  be  scraped  off  with  an  old  knife. 
It  is  really  very  simple  to  have  the  oven  scrubbed  out  while  it  is  stik 
hot,  after  baking  a  joint,  etc.,  and  many  disagreeable  smeils  are  avoided 
by  this  practice.  For  the  purpose  a  long  brush  such  as  is  used  to  clean 
carriage  wheels,  is  useful.  With  it  the  back  wall  of  an  oven  can  easily 
be  reached  and  the  danger  of  burnt  hands  avoided. 

Removing  Cake  from  Pan — If  your  cake  sticks  to  the  pan  an  i 
threatens  to  break  to  pieces  when  you  take  it  out,  turn  the  pan  upside 
down  and  lay  on  the  bottom  of  it,  a  cioth  wrung  out  of  water.  After 
about  five  minutes  the  cake  can  be  removed  without  its  crumbling  to 
pieces. 

Tumblers  that  have  been  used  for  milk  should  not  be  put  into  hot 
water  until  they  have  first  been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  The  heat  drien 
the  milk  in  and  gives  a  cloudy  appearance  to  the  glass,  which  cannot  be 
removed. 

Have  covered  crockery  dishes  for  use  in  the  icebox  and  see  that 
they  are  scalded  when  washed. 

To  clean  mica  in  sto.vesv.wash  .with  vinegar,  and.  wM$rv  ,. 


HELPFUL   RULES   FOR   COOKING  115 

A  clean,  easy  way  to  wash  the  table  silver  is  to  put  it  in  a  wire 
draining'  basket,  having  a  handle.  Then  immerse  it  in  a  pan  of  scalding 
hot  suds  and  scrub  the  silver  with  a  hand  mop.  When  washed,  lift  the 
basket  from  the  pan  and  place  it  in  the  sink.  Pour  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  over  it  and  let  drain.  Very  little  labor  is  required  to  dry  it  with 
a  soft  cloth. 

To  take  iron  rust  out  of  any  white  goods,  dissolve  five  cents'  worth 
of  oxalic  acid  in  about  three  teacups  of  warm  rain  water,  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  If  there  is  still  acid  crystals  in  bottom  of  bottle, 
pour  off  clear  water  and  acid  and  use  that.  Pour  liquid  through  th<j 
strainer  and  be  sure  and  put  in  sun;  if  stains  do  not  disappear  repeat 
until  they  do.  Be  sure  and  thoroughly  rinse  the  acid  out  immediately 
after  the  stain  disappears.  May  be  used  on  the  finest  fabric,  but  be 
sure  and  have  in  the  open  air  and  in  the  sunlight.  Ink  spots  may  be 
removed  in  the  same  way. 

To  make  clothes  wash  easily,  soak  them  over  night  in  cold,  soft 
water  into  which  one  tablespoon  of  ammonia  to  each  bucket  of  water 
has  been  added. 

To  take  berry  stains  out  of  table  linen,  pour  boiling  water  through 
the  stain  before  being  wet  with  soapy  water. 

To  keep  starch  from  sticking  add  a  drop  or  two  of  kerosene  or  a 
little  lard  to  a  small  basin  of  starch,  let  come  to  a  boil. 

*    To  clean  drain  pipes,  dissolve  copperas  and  lye  often  in  your  drain 
pipes  to  clean  them  out  and  disinfect  them. 

To  clean  ink  stains  from  the  fingers,  rub  spots  with  a  sulphur  match, 
then  wash  in  soap. 

If  soot  falls  upon  the  carpet  or  rug,  do  not  attempt  to  sweep  until  it 
has  been  covered  thickly  with  dry  salt.  It  can  then  be  swept  up  prop- 
erly and  not  a  stain  or  smear  will  be  left. 

Do  not  wash  oilcloths  or  linoleum  in  hot  soap  suds.  Wash  them 
with  tepid  water  and  wipe  with  a  cloth  dampened  in  equal  parts  of  cold 
milk  and  water. 

Teapots  that  are  made  of  metal,  if  unused  for  some  time,  will  often 
give  a  musty  flavor  to  the  tea  .when  next  used.  This  may  be  prevented 
by  placing  a  lump  of  sugar  in  the  teapot  before  putting  it  away. 

A  little  milk  added  to  the  water  in  which  silver  is  washed  will  heb> 
to  keep  it  bright. 

To  Protect  Carpets  from  Moths — Apply  gasoline  freely  to  the  carpet 
by  means  of  a  sponge,  brush,  atomizer  or  sprinkler. 

Equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  turpentine  will  remove  paint  from 
clothing. 

The  darkest  stain  on  mirror  or  window  pane  can  generally  be  route.! 
with  a  flannel  dipped  in  spirits  of  camphor.     Rub  until  dry. 

Camphor,  either  in  the  lump  or  the  liquid  form,  is  hated  by  mos- 
quitoes and  will  keep  them  off  when  all  other  methods  fail. 

A  few  drops  of  liquid  camphor  will  often  stop  nausea,  while  setting 
lire  to  the  lumps  and  inhaling  the  fumes  sometimes  works  a  similar 
cure. 

A  pleasant  way  to  sweeten  your  dining-room  after  meal  is  ready 
to  be  served:  Jnjtq  .a. cup  pf  boiling  water  pour ,vone.  teaspoon  of  lavender 
extract.     A  delicate,  penetrating,,  refreshing:  odor. results,..        ..;... 


116  HELPFUL   RULES'  FOR   COOKING 

It  is  said  that  syrup  or  cream  will  not  drop  from  a  pitcher  on  to 
the  tablecloth,  if  the  nose  of  the  pitcher  is  rubbed  with  butter. 

Ajpinch  of  soda  added  to  green  vegetables  when  cooking  will  pre- 
serve their  color. 

Always  cook  vegetables  grown  above  ground  in  salted  water;  thosL- 
which  grow  beneath  the  surface,  in  fresh  water. 

To  get  the  meats  of  pecan  nuts  whole,  soak  the  pecans  over  night 
in  water.  Next  morning  crack  them  on  the  end,  and  the  meats  will 
come  out  without  breaking. 

If  cream  seems  too  thin  to  whip,  set  dish  in  cold  water  and*  leave 
until  well  chilled.  Then  set  in  pan  of  hot  water.  It  will  whip  without 
difficulty. 

A  tiny  amount  of  baking  powder  added  to  an  omelet  makes  it  light 
and  fluffy. 

To  keep  lettuce  and  celery  crisp  for  two  or  three  days  wrap  in  a 
damp  cloth. 

To  hurry  up  the  oven,  heat  a  stove  lid  and  put  on  top  grate;  place 
pie  or  biscuit  on  it.    This  will  bake  the  bottom. 

Get  cranberries  in  the  fall,  take  out  all  that  are  imperfect.  Put  in 
stone  jars  or  glass  cans,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  you  will  have  fresh 
berries  until  late  in  the  spring. 

Turn  roasting  meat  with  a  spoon,  as  the  fork  pierces  the  meat  and 
lets  the  juice  out. 

HINTS    FOR   THE    LAUNDRY 

Don't  set  clothes  to  soak  in  warm  water  and  leave  them  until  the 
water  becomes  cold.  The  fibres  will  expand  in  the  warm  water  and 
then  contract  in  the  cold  water,  entangling  the  dirt. 

Rain  water  is  the  ideal  water  for  all  washing  purposes. 

Hard  water  for  rinsing  clothes  should  be  softened  with  borax  or 
ammonia. 

In  case  of  using  kerosene  oil  in  washing,  buy  only  the  pure  oil.  Dis- 
solve half  a  cake  of  mild  soap,  shredded,  in  a  pint  of  water  over  the 
fire;  add  two  tablespoons  of  kerosene  oil  and  stir  into  ten  gallons  of 
water;  add  the  clothes  dry,  and  stir  while  boiling  hard  about  twenty 
minutes;   rinse  in  at  least  two  waters. 

When  washing  with  kerosene  use  rain  water  or  a  water  soft  nat 
urally  (not  by  addition  of  borax,  etc.),  to  avoid  the  greasy  scum  formed 
by  the  combination  of  the  oil  and  minerals  in  the  water,  which  settle-* 
on  the  clothes. 

Clothes  dried  slowly  are  whiter  than  those  dried  quickly. 

Remove  tea  and  coffee  stains  with  boiling  water. 

Remove  chocolate  stains  with  borax  and  cold  water. 

Remove  milk  and  cream  with  cold  water. 

Remove  scorch  with  sunlight. 

Remove  grass  stains  with  ammonia  and  water. 

Remove  ink  stains  with  sour  milk,  lemon  juice  or  salts  of  lemon. 

To  remove  ink  from  white  goods,  soak  half  an  hour  in  vinegar, 
wash,  soak  in  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  wash. 

•   Remove  paint  with  turpentine  or  turpentine  and  ammonia. 

To  remove  iron  rust,  moisten  with  ammonia,  then  use  salts  of  lemon 
or  oxalic  acid,  rinse  in  boiling  water. 

Remove  medicine  stains  by  soaking  in  alcohol. 

Remove  tar  with  kerosene,  then  warm  water  and  soap. 

Remove  whitewash  with  strong  vinegar. 


0 
INDEX 


Page 

Bread   5-8 

Biscuits,  Rolls,   Coffee  Cake 10-15 

Cakes  and  Frostings : 17-31 

Candies    33-34 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables 36-37 

Cookies  and  Doughnuts , 39-43 

Eggs   45-46 

Fish 48-51 

Griddle  Cakes  and  Waffles 53-54 

Ice  Cream  and  Ices 56-57 

Jellies  and  Preserves 59-62 

Meats   64-71 

Pies  and  Pastries 73-76 

Puddings  and  Desserts 78-85 

Pickles  and  Relishes 87-90 

Sandwiches    92-93 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 95-100 

Soups 102-104 

Vegetables    106-108 

Helpful  Rules  for  Cooking. 110-116 


ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE. 

Wash  and  cut  up  one  stalk  of  eel 
ery,  one  onion,  a  small  piece  of  garlic, 
and  some  parsley,  and  add  enough 
pure  olive  oil  to  cover  bottom  of  cook 


ing  utensil.  Let  simmer  slowly  till  a 
golden  brown,  then  add  one-half  oound 
chopped  meat  and  a  glass  of  dark 
wine.  Let  cook  for  half  hour,  then 
add  one  large  can  of  tomatoes  and  a 
can  of  Italian  tomato  sauce. 

Season  this  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  let  cook  for  three  hours  very 
slowly. 

Serve  with  the  spaghetti  and  grat< 
cheese.  KNOWS.  HO  Wi 

Chicago. 


Ct 


Tne 

3>rowrsJoom^ 


CHICAGO 


11045 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  073137181 


/ 


