FAVORIT 
RECIPES 


i 


miMimmiiiimwiii 


UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 
ATURBAWACH     1PAIGN 

OAKSTRt-bT 
LIBRARY  FACILITY 


Corner  Book  Shop 

102  Fourth  Ave. 
New  York  3,  N.  Y. 


Favorite  Recipes 


Compiled  by 

Young  Woman's  Auxiliary 

of  the 

Congregational  Church 

La  Grange,  Illinois 


December,  Nineteen  TVenty- three 


Printed  by  The  Citizen  Publishing  Co. 


O  COOK  BOOK  3 


FOREWORD 


We  are  all  much  interested  in  the  subject  with  which 
this  book  so  ably  treats.  It  is  vital  to  the  comfort  and  hap- 
piness of  man.  As  "Sis  Mirandy"  says,  "Dey  talks  a  lot 
'bout  dis  heah  haylo  of  romance  dat  a  man  sees  about  a  gal 
befo'  he  marries  her.  You  believe  me,  when  I  tells  you  dat 
de  man  whut  always  sees  his  wife  surrounded  wid  de  smell 
of  good  cookin'  is  got  dat  haylo  business  cinched.  You  never 
hears  of  no  fust-class  cooks  in  de  divorsch  courts." 

We  trust  that  this  little  volume,  with  its  valuable  sug- 
gestions on  "good  things  to  eat",  may  be  a  real  helpful  com- 
panion in  the  kitchen  of  many  a  home. 

We  are  perfectly  aware  of  the  fact  that  "man  does  not 
live  by  bread  alone",  and  it  is  not  the  purpose  of  our  good 
women  to  emphasize  cooking  as  of  first  importance  in  either 
the  church  or  the  home.  It  is  but  a  very  necessary  inci- 
dental in  the  great  work  of  building  real  character  and  life. 

Our  church  believes  in  the  full-orbed  life  In  our  pur- 
suit of  great  truths,  of  spiritual  dynamic  and  of  nobler  ser- 
vice to  our  fellow-men,  we  are  not  forgetful  of  those  things 
which  give  us  finer  social  qualities  and  breadth  of  intellec- 
tual grasp. 

It  is  our  prayer  that  as  the  years  go  by  our  church  may 
be  of  increasing  help  and  inspiration  to  all  who  come  under 
its  influence. 

E.  A.  THOMPSON, 

Minister. 


La  Grange  500 


Do  You  Know?— 

That  acid  fruits  remove  the  dye  from 
garments  unless  cleaned  promptly/ 

That  washing  spots  on  ladies  dresses 
often  takes  the  color  out/ 

7 hat   blood  stains   should  be   treated 
specially/ 

That  some  colors  will  not  take  certain 
dyes/ 

The  Suburban  Service  Cleaners 

19  Calendar  Avenue 
CLEANING  •  DYEING  -  ALTERING  -  TAILORING 


Purveyors  f Cleanliness 


La  Grange  500 


COOK  BOOK 


SOUPS 


Though  fortunes  frown  and  skies  are  drear, 
And  friends  are  changing  year  by  year, 
One  thing  is  always  sure  to  please, 
Just  give  him  soups  such  as  these. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

2  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  1  cup  of  canned  corn 

4  small  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  of  hot  water  1  teaspoon  of  butter 

%  of  a  quart  of  milk 
Fry  out  the  pork,  add  potatoes  diced,  cook  in  cup  of  hot 
water  until  potatoes  are  done.     Add  corn,  butter  and  sea- 
soning, lastly  the  milk  and  heat  well  but  not  boiling. — Mrs. 
H.  H.  Holton. 

CREAM  VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

4  tablespoons  of  cooked  peas,  asparagus  or  potatoes 

2  cups  of  water,  the  vegetables  were  cooked  in 

In  case  canned  vegetables  are  used,  use  all  the  water  in 
the  can,  and  rice  the  vegetables  into  it,  adding  enough  water 
to  make  2  cups  in  all. 

2  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

Paprika 

Let  all  the  ingregients  come  to  a  boil  and  thicken  with 
the  flour  and  a  little  cold  water. — Margaret  T.  Vial. 

VEGETABLE  BROTH 

94  lb.  round  steak  2  tomatoes 

1  stalk  celery  2  carrots 

2  onions 
Cut  steak  in  small  cubes,  coyer  with  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  put  over  very  slow  flame  and  when  it  boils  add  vege- 
tables. Cook  clowly  until  they  are  soft.  Time  required  is 
about  three  hours.  Add  salt  and  pepper  when  nearly  done. 
— Margaret  E.  Thompson. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

1  quart  milk  1  quart  oysters 

Heat  milk 

Cook  oysters  in  1  pint  of  water  until  they  begin  to  curl, 
add  seasoning,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Then  add  hot  milk 
and  serve  at  once.  Soup  made  this  way  will  not  curdle.— 
Mrs.  Gay  lord. 


YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY. 


QUICKLY  MADE  BEEF  TEA 

Pour  1  cup  cold  water  over  %  lb.  of  raw  hamburger 
steak.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  ten  minutes,  then  cook  slowly 
for  ten. minutes,  add  salt,  strain. — Mrs.  Gaylord. 

EASY  CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

14  can  tomatoes  1/4  teaspoon  soda 

i  tablespoon  butter  j±  quart  of  milk 

Salt  to  taste 
Place  tomatoes  in  stew  pan,  when  hot  add  soda  and 
while  this  is  foaming  add  milk  at  once.    If  done  this  way  it 
will  not  curdle.    Add  butter  and  salt  last  and  serve  hot  with 
crackers. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Purple. 

SCOTCH  BROTH 

3  lb.  neck  of  lamb.  Simmer  in  3  qts.  water  all  day.  Let 
stand  over  night,  strain  and  add  to  the  stock  meat  cut  in 
dice  and  %  cup  each  chopped  carrots,  turnips  and  celery, 
little  chopped  parsley.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  done  and 
add  1  cup  cooked  pearl  barley  and  seasoning. — Mrs.  A.  M. 
Langwill. 

-TOMATO  CONSOMME 

1  large  can  tomatoes  1  large  onion  cut  fine 

1  stalk  celery  cut  fine  4  whole  cloves 

Salt  and  pepper 
Boil  slowly  1  hour  and  strain.    Just  before  serving  add 
1  large  tablespoon  of  Armour's  beef  extract.    Serve  hot  and 
add  slices  of  lemon.    The  first  part  may  be  prepared  the  day 
before. — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Herzog. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP 

Pare  four  small  potatoes,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  rapidly  for  5  minutes,  throw  the  water  away  and  cover 
with  IV2  pints  of  boiling  water.  Add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bay 
leaf  and  a  few  celery  tops  chopped  fine — the  green  leaves  of 
the  celery  will  answer  the  purpose;  cover  and  boil  for  15 
minutes  or  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  While  these  are 
boiling  put  a  pint  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  one  of  flour  rubbed  together,  press  the 
potatoes  through  a  fine  sieve  using  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled ;  add  this  mixture  to  the  hot  milk  in  the  double 
boiler.  Stir  until  thoroughly  heated  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  R. 
Eastman. 


COOK  BOOK 


VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Put  into  a  kettle  14  lb.  of  lean  salt  pork.  Cut  in  cubes 
two  large  potatoes,  and  two  large  onions.  Slice  two  medium 
carrots,  and  1  head  of  celery.  Add  1  can  of  corn  and  1  of 
tomatoes,  or  their  equivalent  in  the  fresh  vegetables.  Add 
to  this  2  quarts  of  water.  Cook  very  slowly  for  several 
hours.  Just  before  serving  add  2  cups  of  milk  and  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Cook  just  long 
enough  to  blend. — Helen  C.  Lemon. 


BEAN  SOUP 

Take  shank  of  ham  or  bone  left  after  cutting  ham  from 
whole  ham,  Boil  same  as  any  soup  bone  with  navy  beans, 
beans  according  to  number  to  be  served.  When  beans  are 
tender,  add  milk  to  beans  and  liquor  to  make  quantity  need- 
ed. Season  with  pepper,  salt  if  needed.  Do  not  but  through 
colander. — Maud  M.  Wakefield. 


SOUP 

Small  veal  shank  2  carrots 

Small  soup  bone  2  parsnips 

2  stalks  of  celery  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cover  with  water  and  boil  for  four  or  five  hours.  Strain 
if  desired  and  season.  If  soup  is  served  clear  put  a  slice  of 
lemon  and  a  little  chopped  parsley  in  each  bowl. — Aileen  S. 
Clarke. 


CANNED  TOMATO  SOUP 

14  qts.  unpeeled  tomatoes        7  small  onions 
14  sprigs  parsley  4  tablespoons  salt 

14  bay  leaves  (or  less)  2  teaspoons  pepper 

25  cloves  16  tablespoons  sugar 

14  stalks  celery  ^  doz.  are  enough) 

Cook  together  until  soft.  Strain  through  sieve.  Then 
add  14  tablespoons  butter  and  14  tablespoons  flour.  Make 
like  cream  sauce  with  small  quantity  of  the  tomato  juice. 
Add  gradually  to  whole  quantity.  Boil  few  minutes  until 
mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Can  in  air-tight  glass 
jars.— Mrs.  F.  K.  Vial. 


YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  can  of  tomatoes  (strained).  Cook  to  boiling  point, 
then  add  pinch  (1/2  teaspoon  soda)  before  pouring  tomatoes 
into  milk  that  has  come  to  a  boiling  point.  Make  thickening 
of  butter  and  flour  and  add  to  soup.  Season  to  taste.  Do 
not  make  it  too  thick,  just  enough  to  give  it  body. — Mrs.  J. 
E.  Edmonds. 


CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

Cut  off  tops  and  outside  pieces  of  six  stalks  or  more  of 
celery;  chop  or  cut  it  finely  with  two  carrots  and  one  small 
onion.  Add  1  pint  can  of  tomatoes  or  3  fresh  ones,  2  cloves, 
a  small  piece  of  bay  leaf,  a  little  mace,  salt  and  pepper  and  1 
pint  of  water.  Boil  slowly  for  1  hour,  drain  through  colan- 
der or  sieve.  For  cream,  run  together  and  brown  slightly  1 
tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Add  1  pint  of  milk  and 
cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  to  first  mixture  and 
serve  immediately — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 


CARROT  SOUP 

2  cups  of  carrots  cut  in  small  pieces    1  tablespoon  of  butter 

3  cups  of  water  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
V2  small  green  pepper,  chopped  fine     Salt  and  pepper 

3  cups  of  milk  or  part  cream  1  slice  of  onion 

Boil  carrots  until  tender,  press  through  sieve  using 
water  that  remains.  Scald  onion  in  milk  and  remove.  Cream 
butter  and  flour,  add  to  milk.  Combine  with  carrot  liquid. 
Allow  to  boil  a  second.  Add  finely  chopped  green  pepper, 
boil  a  few  seconds  longer. — Mrs.  Albert  Heppes. 


CREAM  OF  BEET  SOUP 

2  tablespoons  butter  with  3  tablespoons  flour  and  add  to 
3  pints  of  milk.  1%  cups  beets  boiled  and  mashed.  Boil  to- 
gether and  add  to  beets,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


COOK  BOOK 


GREEN  CORN  AND  POTATO  SOUP 

Take  equal  parts  of  grated  corn  and  potato ;  cook  them 
together  for  1/2  hour,  adding  a  stalk  of  celery  and  a  sprig  of 
parsley;  strain,  season  with  butter  and  salt,  and  serve  with 
soup  sticks. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Fry. 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  large  can  tomatoes  or  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  qt.  fresh  tomatoes  cooked     V2  teaspoon  soda 

until  tender  1  tablespoon  suger 

1  pint  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Sift  tomatoes;  bring  to  a  boiling  point  and  add  soda  and 
sugar.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
until  it  thickens.  Combine  by  pouring  the  milk  mixture  into 
the  tomatoes  and  serve  immediately.  Do  not  combine  until 
ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  Frank  M.  Bartlett. 


CREAM  POTATO  SOUP 

2  medium  potatoes  sliced  thin;  good  sized  onion  cut 
fine;  2  cupfulls  of  water.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  soft. 
Mash  in  the  water  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  and  1  pint  of 
milk.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  made  into  a  paste 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Add  thickening  and  allow  it  to  just 
come  to  a  boil.    Salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Dunlap. 


GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

Cover  1  qt.  of  green  peas  or  1  can  of  peas  with  hot  water 
and  boil  until  they  can  be  easiiy  mashed  (about  i/>  hour) .  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  rubbed  together  and  cook 
until  smooth.  Add  mashed  peas  and  then  add  a  cup  of  cream 
and  1  pint  of  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  boil  up 
once,  strain  and  serve.  One  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream 
added  to  each  dish  when  served  is  an  improvement. — Mrs. 
John  Windsor. 


10 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

PEA  SOUP 

1  can  peas  1  slice  onion 

2  teaspoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 
1  pint  cold  water                       2  tablespoons  flour 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Ya  teaspoon  pepper 

Drain  peas,  add  sugar  and  cold  water,  and  simmer 
twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  reheat,  and  thicken 
with  butter  and  flour.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion, 
add  milk  to  pea  mixture,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs. 
W.  W.  Knight. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 

1  cup  dried  split  peas  3  tablespoons  butter 

2V2  quarts  cold  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  pint  milk  11/2  teaspoons  salt 

V2  onion  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  inch  cube  fat  salt  pork 

Pick  over  peas  and  soak  several  hours,  drain,  add  cold 
water,  pork  and  onion.  Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Add  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  salt 
rc\nd  pepper.    Dilute  with  milk. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Knight. 

SOUPS 

Bones  and  trimmings  of  6  pounds  of  roast  beef,  2  cold 
mutton  chops,  flank  end  of  steak,  4  quarts  cold  water,  1 
tablespoonful  salt,  4  cloves,  8  peppercorns,  4  small  onions,  2 
stalks  celery,  1  tablespoonful  mixed  herbs  (sage,  summer 
savory,  thyme  and  sweet  majoram).  Tie  herbs  in  a  cloth. 
Cut  up  the  meat  and  bones  and  put  them  in  the  kettle  with 
cold  water.  Add  all  the  other  material,  and  simmer  seven 
or  eight  hours  until  the  bones  are  clean,  and  meat  in  rags, 
and  the  water  reduced  one-half.  Strain,  and  the  next  morn- 
ing remove  the  fat.  When  ready  to  serve,  heat  the  stock 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  tomatoes.  Keep  the  fat  on  until 
all  stock  is  used.  Use  coarse  herbs  for  soups.  Use  fine 
herbs  for  dressings. — Mrs.  Dietrich. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

Cut  off  tip,  and  put  the  remainder  of  the  grass  through 
a  fine  seive.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  rub  smoothly.  Add  this  to  the  water,  the  asparagus 
has  been  boiled  in.  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  %  teaspoon 
pepper.  Add  the  pulp  that  has  been  strained.  If  too  thick, 
add  cream  to  right  consistency.  Add  tips  just  before  serv- 
ing.— Mrs.  Harry  Dietrich. 


COOK  BOOK  11 


FISH 


"From  ocean  and  lake,  from  river  and  brook, 
We  swim  at  thy  bidding,  oh  capable  cook!" 

BAKED  HALIBUT 

2  lbs.  halibut  cut  in  one  piece. 
Cook  for  20  minutes  the  following : 

2  cups  tomatoes  1  onion,  chopped 
1  cup  water                                 3  cloves 

V2  tablespoon  sugar 

Make  a  sauce  of : 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  pepper 

and  add  to  hot  mixture.  Cook  10  minutes.  Pour  half  over 
fish  and  bake  35  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Serve  the 
other  half  of  sauce  with  the  fish  and  garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.  Fred  S.  Lodge. 

STEAMED  SALMON  LOAF 

1  lb.  can  salmon  V22  cup  milk 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Juice  of  1  lemon 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately         1  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  teaspoon  pepper 
"Drain  salmon  and  add  ingredients  in  order.    Mix.    Put 
into  well  greased  mould  and  steam  1  hour.     This  recipe  is 
very  good  sliced  cold  as  well  as  hot. — Margaret  T.  Vial. 

HALIBUT  STEAK 

1  slice  halibut  steak  well  dredged  with  flour,  put  in  the 
roaster.  Put  bits  of  butter  over  with  salt  and  pepper,  two 
cups  of  boiling  water  in  the  pan  with  the  fish.  Cover  closely 
and  bake  40  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  then  uncover.  Make  a 
thick  cream  sauce,  thin  with  some  of  the  water  from  the 
fish.  Garnish  with  parsley,  hard-boiled  egg  or  lemon  slices. 
— Weltha  B.  Hill. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON 

1  pint  can  salmon  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  Salt 

1  cup  milk  Pepper 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Parsley 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  butter  to  the  eggs,  mix 
all  together  with  the  salmon  and  bake  !/*>  hour  in  a  buttered 
dish.— Margaret  T.  Vial. 


12  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


HALIBUT  BAKED  IN  CUSTARD  (Four  Portions) 

1  lb.  halibut  1  small  onion 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  Vi  teaspoon  paprika 

2  eggs  V$  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley    2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Purchase  1  slice  halibut  weighing1  about  1  lb.  Cut  the  fish 
into  6  filets,  removing  the  bones.  Lay  the  filets  into  a  but- 
tered, shallow  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  %  teaspoon 
salt,  the  parsley,  paprika  and  the  onion  grated.  In  a  bowl, 
beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  add  the  flour,  milk,  remaining 
salt,  and  pepper.  Beat  together  to  blend  and  pour  over  the 
fish.  Bake  at  350°  F.  for  %  hour  or  until  set.— Etta  S. 
Tyler. 

FISH  SOUFFLE 

Put  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  %  cup  of  milk  over 
the  fire,  stir  constantly  until  boiling  hot,  take  from  fire  and 
add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  14  teaspoon  salt,  same  amount  of  pepper, 
stir  into  this  1  cup  of  shredded  codfish,  when  well  mixed, 
stir  in  carefully  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  put 
quickly  into  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  5  minutes 
or  until  golden  brown.    Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  John  Windsor. 

CREAMED  SHRIMP 

Heat  1  can  (small)  of  shrimps  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
stirring  until  warmed  through  but  not  browned;  add  yi 
tablespoon  of  onion  extract  or  onion  juice.  1  gill  of  milk 
and  6  beaten  eggs  stirred  in  and  cooked  until  the  consistency 
of  rich  cream.  Serve  at  once  on  squares  of  toast  or  toasted 
crackers.  Nice  for  chafing  dish  and  onion  may  be  omitted 
if  desired. — Mrs.  John  Windsor. 

SHRIMP  WIGGLE 

1  can  shrimp  1  can  French  peas 

1  doz.  olives  chopped  fine 
Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  dish.     Add  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  2  cups  milk.     Cook,  season  to  taste,  then  add 
shrimp,  peas  and  olives.     Serve  at  once  on  toast. — Mrs. 
James  A.  Walker. 


COOK  BOOK  13 


MOGK  LOBSTER  NEWBERG 

1  cup  of  tomatoes  stewed  with  14  teaspoon  sugar;  add 
1  scant  cup  dried  beef  shredded  and  1  heaping  cup  grat- 
ed cheese.  When  the  cheese  is  melted  add  1  egg  slightly 
beaten  and  cook  1  minute.  Red  pepper  should  be  added  to 
taste. — May  B.  Judd. 

FRICASSIED  OYSTERS 

1  qt.  oysters,  drain  as  diy  as  possible,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  put  in  spider  and  get  quite  brown,  add  oysters  and  as 
soon  as  they  cook  a  minute,  add  as  much  more  butter,  which 
has  been  well  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Cook  a  min- 
ute and  add  1  egg  beaten  with  2  tablespoon  of  cream.  Let 
the  whole  cook  a  bit  and  pour  over  toasted  bread. — Mrs. 
George  M.  Vial. 

HOLLENDEN  HALIBUT 

Arrange  6  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  in  a  dripping  pan. 
Cover  with  1  small  onion  thinly  sliced  and  add  a  bit  of  bay 
leaf.  Wipe  a  2-lb.  slice  of  halibut  and  place  on  the  onion  and 
pork.  Cream  3  tablespoons  butter  and  3  of  flour  and  spread 
on  the  fish.  Cover  with  %  cup  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs 
and  arrange  thin  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  over  the  crumbs. 
Cover  and  bake  50  minutes  in  moderate  oven  removing  the 
cover  the  last  15  minutes  to  brown  the  crumbs.  Remove  to 
hot  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and 
sprinkle  with  paprika. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Eastman. 

CREAMED  SHRIMP  ON  TOAST 

1  can  wet  shrimp  or  1  pint  milk 

1  pint  fresh  shrimp  Salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  Paprika 

Pimento  to  taste 

Cut  shrimp  in  small  pieces,  melt  butter,  add  flour  and 
milk.  Let  cook  until  it  thickens,  add  shrimp  and  the  salt, 
pepper,  paprika  and  pimento  to  taste  and  serve  very  hot  on 
toast.— Mrs.  F.  M.  Bartlett. 


14  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


FINNAN  HADDIE  a  la  DELMONICA 

Pour  1  cup  of  water  over  the  haddie  and  leave  in  oven 
for  V2  hour.    While  heating,  prepare  sauce: 

2  cups  hot  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Slice  into  sauce  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and  pour  all  over 
fish,  which  should  be  previously  boned  and  flaked.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon  slices. — Mrs.  John  Mavor. 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  large  can  of  salmon  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

4  well  beaten  eggs  Vz  cup  bread  crumbs 

Pepper,  salt,  parsley  to  taste 

Rub  butter  into  salmon ;  put  crumbs  into  eggs,  mix  all 
together,  season,  put  into  mold  (buttered)  and  steam  1  hour. 

SAUCE  FOR  SALMON  LOAF 

1  cup  hot  milk  thickened  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  or 
corn  starch.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  liquor  of  sal- 
mon, 1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  1  egg,  added  last.  Boil 
1  minute  and  pour  over  mold. — Mrs.  Myron  J.  Kelly. 


COOK  BOOK  15 


MEATS 

Did  you  say  mutton  or  sausage  or  ham 

Or  nice  green  peas  with  mint  sauce  and  lamb  ? 

Tastes  are  varied,  but  let  me  make 

This  observation ;  you'll  not  mistake 

In  chosing  a  sirloin,  a  very  good  one 

Like  all  good  things — not  overdone. 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces  and  dredge  with  flour.  Season  with 
salt  and  celery  salt.  Brown  in  spider  with  large  lump  of 
butter  or  bacon  fat.  When  brown  on  both  sides  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  boil  until  done.  Thicken  the  gravy  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Moore. 

ESCALLOPED  VEAL 

Cook  the  veal,  also  the  bones  and  trimmings,  in  a  small 
amount  of  water.  When  tender,  drain  in  colander,  put  the 
stock  back  on  the  fire,  season  it,  and  thicken  to  proper  gravy 
consistency  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together.  (Season- 
ing for  veal  should  always  include  a  little  lemon  juice.) 
Then  cut  the  veal  into  small  pieces,  arrange  a  layer  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten 
well  with  gravy.  Arrange  the  second  layer  likewise,  finish- 
ing with  crumbs  moistened  with  melted  butter.  Bake  brown. 
Oysters  may  be  substituted  for  the  crumb  layers,  and  makes 
a  delicious  dish.  Spiced  gooseberries  are  nice  served  with 
veal. — Berenice  Kissick. 

ITALIAN  STYLE  VEAL  CHOPS 

3  loin  or  rib  veal  chops  2  carrots 

1  green  pepper  2  tablespoons  shortening 

1  Spanish  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

3  large  tomatoes  or  i/2  can  tomatoes 
Brown  veal  chops  in  shortening,  then  add  vegetables, 
either  sliced  thin  or  chopped  and  allow  to  simmer  for  1  hour. 
The  sauce  is  delicious  either  thickened  with  flour  or  with 
cream  added. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Kelso. 

SPANISH  CHICKEN 

Cut  up  a  young  chicken  as  for  frying.  Put  in  a  kettle 
that  can  be  closely  covered  and  add : 

1  can  mushrooms  (without  the  juice)  or  fresh  mushrooms 
1  can  peas  with  juice  1  sweet  pepper  cut  fine 

1  can  tomatoes  A  little  red  pepper 

Salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter 

Bake  V/o  hours. — Althea  L.  Godso. 


16 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

BEEF  LOAF  WITH  TOMATOES 

214  lbs.  beef  Salt 

1/4  lb.  pork  2  tablespoons  green  pepper,   . 

1  small  can  tomatoes  chopped 

Chopped  onion  to  taste  8  soda  crackers 

Pepper  1  or  2  eggs 

Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  A  little  water 
may  be  added  if  too  thick.  This  recipe  will  serve  about  12 
people. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Merriell. 

ROAST  BEEF 

A  most  excellent  way  to  roast  beef  is  to  put  it  in  the 
roasting  pan  (without  the  cover)  and  without  water  in  pan. 
Have  oven  hot.  Cook  the  roast  until  it  begins  to  brown  be- 
fore adding  water.  Put  an  onion  in  pan  (whole)  as  it  adds 
a  delicate  flavor  to  the  roast.  Keep  roast  well  basted  while 
roasting  as  it  keeps  the  meat  juicy. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Edmonds. 

BEEF  POT  ROAST 

4  lbs.  beef  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  butter  6  whole  peppers 

1  tablespoon  lard  1  bay  leaf 

3  cloves  4  tablespoons  water 

Put  butter  and  lard  in  roasting  kettle  and  when  hot 
add  meat.  Brown  on  both  sides,  add  onion,  peppers,  bay 
leaf,  cloves  and  water.  Keep  closely  covered  while  cooking, 
adding  salt  just  before  the  meat  is  cooked.  When  done,  take 
out,  add  flour  to  remaining  fat  and  water  enough  for  gravy. 

4  hours  is  specified  time  for  this  size  of  roast  but  may  vary 
somewhat  according  to  the  quality  of  the  meat. — Etta  S. 
Tyler. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDINGS 

To  be  eaten  with  roast  beef. 

Into  a  basin  put  3  eggs  and  a  little  salt,  beat,  and  add  1 
cup  of  milk  and  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  after  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed  add  2  more  cups  of  milk,  beat  with  egg 
beater.  This  can  be  baked  in  shallow  pans  or  in  gem  pans, 
which  have  a  generous  supply  of  beef  drippings  in  them  and 
made  hot.    Bake  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  T.  C.  Borden. 


COOK  BOOK  17 


BAKED  HAM 

Soak  a  ham  over  night.  Then  scrape  and  put  in  fresh 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  it.  Bring  to  a  boil,  pour  off  and 
again  add  water.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  1/2  cup 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  doz.  cloves,  and  other  spices 
you  are  fond  of.  Boil  3  hours.  Take  out  of  water,  skin  and 
put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven.  A  cup  of  sweet  cider  before  baking  adds  to  the 
flavor. — Mrs.  John  W.  Matthews. 

ONE-HALF  HAM  BAKED 

Boil  butt  end  of  ham  Y2  hour.  Remove  skin,  make  mix- 
ture of  1  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  prepared  mustard 
and  spread  all  over  ham.  Stick  in  24  cloves  at  intervals  on 
all  sides.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  214  to  3  hours. — Dorothy 
Mavor. 

BAKED  HAM  WITH  APPLES 

1  center  cut  slice  ham  %  inch  thick.  Trim  off  fat  and 
put  through  meat  grinder.  Then  spread  on  slice  of  ham  and 
cover  with  brown  sugar.  Core  apples  and  season  with  sugar. 
Place  in  pan  with  ham  and  V2  cup  water.  Bake  in  slow  oven 
50  minutes. — Mary  M.  Vial. 

BAKED  HAM 

Cover  the  ham  with  cold  water  and  simmer  gently  just 
long  enough  to  loosen  the  skin  so  it  can  be  pulled  off  easily 
(about  3  hours).  Allow  ham  to  remain  in  the  boiler  until 
cool.  Remove  to  roasting  pan  in  the  oven  and  pour  over  it 
1  cup  of  vinegar  and  1  cup  of  hot  water  in  which  a  teaspoon 
of  English  mustard  has  been  dissolved.  Bake  slowly  2 
hours,  basting  with  the  liquid,  then  cover  the  ham  all  over, 
to  the  depth  of  1  inch  with  coarse  brown  supar,  pressing  it 
firmly  down,  and  do  not  baste  again  until  the  sugar  has 
formed  a  thick  crust.  Bake  another  hour  until  it  becomes  a 
rich  golden  brown.    Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt 


18  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CREAMED  BEEF 

2  cups  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken  with 
butter  size  of  an  egg  rubbed  smooth  with  1  tablespoon  flour. 
When  thick  add  1/2  cup  of  dried  beef  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
1  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  W.  R.  East- 
man. 


TOMATO  BEEF 

A  3-lb.  slice  from  the  round ;  wipe  dry,  lay  in  roaster  and 
pour  over  1  pint  canned  tomatoes,  1  onion  and  14  carrot 
chopped,  2  whole  cloves,  14  cup  hot  water.  Cook  slowly  for 
2  hours  and  season  after  1  hour. — Mrs;  A.  M.  Langwill. 


BAKED  HAM 

Put  a  slice  of  smoked  ham,  3  or  4  inches  thick,  into  a 
covered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  over  it  1  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
cover  with  sweet  milk  and  bake  3  hours.  (Unusually  sweet 
and  tender.) — Louise  M.  Irwin. 


TO  FLAVOR  CORNBEEF,  HAM  OR  TONGUE 

Mix  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  with  1  tablespoon  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  add  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  1  table- 
spoon brown  sugar,  6  cloves,  6  allspice.  Stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  meat  14  nour  before 
it  is  done  and  put  the  meat  back  into  this  liquid  until  it  gets 
cold  over  night. — Mrs.  Kelso. 


COOK  BOOK  19 


SWEDISH  MEAT  CAKES 

1  lb.  round  steak,  ground         1  small  onion,  grated 

2  egg  yolks  or  1  egg  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  or 
%  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  Worcester  sauce 

J/2  CUP  milk  or  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  lightly.  Make  into  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  brown 
in  fat  in  skillet.  Add  IV2  cups  of  tomato  sauce  or  stock. 
Put  in  covered  casserole  and  bake  45  minutes.  Serve  with 
a  border  of  rice. — Mrs.  Robt.  Frey. 


CROQUETTES 

Two  small  cups  veal  or  chicken  (chopped) 
12  large  oysters,  chopped 
1  cup  bread  crumbs  cooked  in  iy%  cups  milk 
1  egg- 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Mold  in  cone  shape,  dip  in  egg,  then  cracker  meal,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  Fred  S.  Lodge. 


PORK  AND  NOODLES 

1  lb.  lean  pork  shoulder,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried 

2  medium  sized  onions,  fried 

1  package  Broad  (real  egg  noodles)  cooked 

Mix  all  together  and  add  1  can  of  Campbell's  tomato 
soup.  If  not  moist  enough  add  a  little  hot  water.  Bake  1 
hour  in  a  casserole. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Hawkins. 


VEGETABLE  LOAF 

1  lb.  of  beef,  ground  1  egg 

Vi  lb.  of  pork,  ground  V2  cup  chopped  celery 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  y%  cup  chopped  tomatoes 

Salt  to  taste 

A  little  catsup  if  desired.    Bake  in  casserole. — Florelle 
G.  Hawley. 


20 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

VEAL  LOAF  (Very  Good) 

31/^  lbs.  of  raw  veal  Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

J/2  lb.  of  salt  pork,  chopped  fine   3  eggs 
3  tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk    1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper 
3!/2  tablespoons  of  cracker  meal  1  large  tablespoon  of  salt 
1  large  tablespoon  of  sage 

Mix  well  together,  form  into  loaf.  Put  small  slices  of 
onion  over  top  and  bake  Zffi  hours. — Margaret  A.  Randall. 

MEAT  LOAF 

%  lb.  of  beef,  ground  -V2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1/2  lb.  of  pork,  ground  1  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
%  cup  canned  tomatoes  (mix  with  cracker  crumbs) 

V2  cup  of  cream  or  milk  1  well  beaten  egg 

i/2  can  mushrooms  1  large  onion 

1  pimento  or  green  pepper  V2  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  of  sugar 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  30-40  minutes.  Oil  the  pan. 
Cover  at  first,  uncover  to  brown.  Serves  6. — Mrs.  E.  E. 
Crook. 

MEAT  LOAF 

IV2  lbs.  chopped  beef  14  CUP  tomato  soup 

V2  lb.  chopped  pork  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

IV2  teaspoons  salt  .    y%  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 

V2  teaspoon  pepper  1  egg 

Mix  well  and  bake  1  hour  in  greased  loaf  pan. — Mrs. 
George  M.  Stevens. 

MEAT  LOAF  (3  lbs.)  s 

1  lb.  veal,  ground  2  eggs 

1  lb.  ham,  ground  IV2  CUPS  bread  crumbs 

1  lb.  beef,  ground  2  cups  milk 

Mix  together,  add  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  season 
with  sage,  black  pepper,  parsley,  onion  and  salt.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  1  to  IV2  hours. — Mrs.  Byron  Greenlee. 


COOK  BOOK  21 


HAM  LOAF 

l1/^  lbs.  of  ham  Ground  together 

2  lbs.  of  lean  pork  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  fresh,  soft  bread  crumbs 

Form  into  loaf  and  bake  V/%  hours. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Hawk- 
ins. 

HAM  LOAF 

2  lbs.  raw  smoked  ham  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  lb.  fresh  pork  2  eggs 

Ground  Pepper  to  taste 

1  cup  tomatoes  (Richili'eu's  tomato  pulp  preferred) 

Make  into  a  loaf,  pour  the  tomato  pulp  over  the  top  and 
bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe  serves  12 
people. — Margaret  T.  Vial. 

PORK  LOAF 

4  lbs  lean  pork  ground  (not  too  fine) 

2  cups  chopped  celery 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

3  eggs 

Salt,  pepper  and  small  bay  leaf 

Make  into  loaf.  Lay  in  one  large  or  2  small  onions,  pour 
over  1  can  of  tomatoes.  Bake  1V2  hours. — Mrs.  Fred  S. 
Lodge. 

HAM  LOAF 

2  cups  ground  (cooked  ham 

4  eggs,  hard-boiled 

1  cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  seasoned 

14  teaspoon  French  mustard 

1  tablespoon  Worcester  sauce 

Very  small  tube  of  garlic,  if  liked 

}4  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Small  amount  chopped  green  peppers 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Little  boiling  water  to  moisten 

Mold  in  small  loaf,  put  in  cool  place  to  harden.  Just 
previous  to  serving,  fold  in  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Serve  in  ice  cold  cocktail  glasses,  garnish  with  Maraschino 
cherries. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Bourland. 


22  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BAKED  LAMB  CHOPS 

Peel  and  slice  thin,  6  large  potatoes,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cover  with  milk  and  place  on  top  of  1  lb.  lamb 
chops,  seasoned.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  potatoes  are 
done. — Mrs.  R.  V.  Thomas. 


BERKSHIRE  PORK  CHOPS 

2  thick  pork  chops  1  small  tart  apple 

1  small  onion  ]/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  Pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Place  chops  in  covered  casserole,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  cook  for  14  hour,  chop  onion,  apple  and  parsley  rather 
line  and  heap  the  chops  with  this  mixture.  Place  the  chops 
in  the  oven  and  cook  */•>  hour  longer.  When  done  remove  the 
chops  and  saute  on  both  sides  in  hot  frying  pan.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour,  pour  over  meat. — Mrs.  Downs. 


HAM 

1  slice  ham  IV2  inches  thick     Mix  and  spread  on  ham 
1  tablespoon  brown  sugar         5  or  6  cloves  placed  in  fat 
V2  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Pour  over  V2  CUP  vinegar 

Bake  about  1  hour. — Mrs.  Samuel  F.  Nichols. 


HAM  SCALLOP 

Chop  boiled  ham  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  put  in  baking 
dish  in  alternate  layers,  with  thick  cream  sauce.  Cover  top 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake. — Fannie  G.  Francis. 


COOK  BOOK  23 


MEAT  SOUFFLE 

1  pt.  finely  chopped  cooked  meat      4  eggs 
1  pt.  of  cream  sauce  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Stir  meat- into  boiling  sauce,  cook  2  minutes,  add  yolks 
of  eggs  and  set  to  cool.  When  cold  add  well  beaten  whites, 
turn  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  i/i  hour.  Have  oven  hot 
and  turn  flame  low  when  you  put  souffle  in. — Aileen  S. 
Clarke. 


MEAT  SOUFFLE 

Very  useful  recipe. 

Put  2  cups  of  ground  or  chopped  meat  in  sauce  pan  with 
Vt  CUP  of  stock  (or  milk),  2  level  tablespoons  of  butter,  2 
tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  14  tea- 
spoon  pepper.  When  heated,  set  off  stove  and  add  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Lastly  fold  in  the  whipped  whites 
of  the  3  eggs.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  M. 
J.  Carpenter. 


MEAT  SOUFFLE 

1  cup  of. finely  chopped  lamb,  turkey  or  chicken. 
Make  a  cream  dressing  of: 
1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

Yolks  of  3  eggs 

Add  the  meat  and  when  cool,  add  the  whites  of  the  egga 
beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Hollings. 


BEEF  OR  VEAL  LOAF 

2  lbs.  beef  or  veal  Dash  of  red  pepper 

14  lb.  salt  pork  %  cup  milk 

IV2  cups  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

1  small  teaspoon  salt  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Grind  meat  and  mix  all  ingredients  together  and  form 
in  a  loaf.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  beef  I1 4  hours  and  veal  2 
hours. — Harriet  B.  Touzalin. 


24 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

MEAT  PIE  WITH  POTATO  CRUST 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  into  three  slices,  removing  all  fat, 
cover  the  bones  and  trimmings  with  cold  water,  add  a  few 
slices  of  onion  and  carrot  and  a  stalk  of  celery,  let  simmer  2 
hours,  strain  off  the  broth  and  simmer  in  it  the  slices  of  beef 
until  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  a 
baking  dish ;  shake  in  a  little  flour  and  if  at  hand,  add  4  or  5 
mushrooms  peeled,  broken  in  pieces  and  sauted  5  minutes  in 
a  little  butter;  cover  closely  with  a  round  of  potato  crust  in 
which  is  an  opening,  bake  until  the  crust  is  done  (15  min- 
utes. 

POTATO  CRUST 
2  cups  of  flour  Y%  cup  of  shortening 

Y%  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  cold  mashed  potatoes 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder  Milk 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  with  the 
tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  the  shortening  and  the  potato, 
then  add  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough,  turn  out  on  board  and 
kneed  lightly,  pat  and  roll  out  to  fit  baking  dish. — Mrs.  F.  C. 
Fry. 

INDIVIDUAL  MEAT  PIE 

4  lbs.  pork  shoulder  cut  for  meat  pie.  If  there  is  too 
much  fat  take  some  out.  Cook  until  very  tender,  then  make 
plenty  of  gravy.  Put  meat  into  individual  dishes  and  fill 
each  dish  with  some  of  the  gravy.  Put  on  the  top  of  this  4 
to  6  small  baking  powder  biscuit  that  have  been  cut  out  with 
the  inside  of  the  doughnut  cutter.  Put  into  the  oven  to 
bake  until  biscuits  are  brown.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Pur- 
ple. 

TAMALE  PIE 

Stew  a  chicken  and  take  out  the  bones.  Make  a  mush 
of  1  qt.  of  stock  and  lVs*  cups  of  corn  meal.  Fry  2  onions 
tender,  then  add  1  cup  tomatoes,  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar  and 
thicken  for  sauce.  Put  V2  of  the  mush  in  pan,  add  all  the 
seasoned  chicken  and  all  the  sauce.  Put  balance  of  mush  on 
top  and  steam  2  hours.  1  olive  in  center  of  each  serving  is 
nice. — Carrie  C.  Orange. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  A  MEAT  STEW 

2  cups  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder      1  cup  milk  or  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  water  and  stir  Put  2  spoons 
in  stew  to  become  hot,  the  hot  spoons  help  shape  the  dump- 
lings. Drop  on  stew,  cook  ten  minutes  with  cover  off  and 
ten  minutes  with  cover  on.  No  heavy  dumplings.  This 
serves  6. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Hilbish. 


COOK  BOOK  25 


HAMBURG  AND  NOODLES 

Boil  1  lb.  noodles  in  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoon  of 
salt.  When  noodles  are  tender  add  1  can  tomato  soup,  1  ta- 
blespoon sugar,  V2  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper. 

In  frying  pan  melt  2  large  tablespoons  of  fat  and  fry  3 
large  onions,  sliced.  When  onions  are  partly  done  add  1  lb. 
hamburg  and  fry  while  preparing  1  stalk  celery  cut  up.  Fry 
cut  celery  with  meat.  When  meat  is  done,  add  to  noodles 
and  tomatoes. — Mrs.  E.  0.  Horn. 

SWISS  STEAK 

Any  cheap  cut  of  beef  as  for  pot  roast.  In  deep  pan  put 
2  or  3  heaping  tablespoons  fat.  Wash  the  meat,  pepper  and 
salt  it,  and  place  over  the  fat.  Cover  tightly  and  turn  flame 
low.  Cook  about  1  hour.  Turn  meat  and  slice  3  onions  on 
top  of  meat.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  another  hour  or  until 
brown.  Then  turn  again  and  brown  other  side. — Mrs.  E.  0. 
Horn. 

DEVILED  STEAK 

1  flank  steak  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  onion  1/2  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Vs  teaspoon  paprika 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  mustard 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  2  cups  hot  water 

Dredge  steak  in  flour  and  brown  in  butter.  Add  other 
ingredients  and  let  steak  simmer  until  tender. — Laura  V. 
Nickless. 

CREAMED  HAMBURG  STEAK 

Put  1  lb.  of  round  steak  ground  in  a  frying  pan  with  1 
medium  sized  onion  cut  fine.  Cover  with  y%  cup  of  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  let  cook  until  water  is  boiled 
away.  Add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  brown.  Sprinkle 
1  tablespoon  flour  over  this  and  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  stir 
until  smooth. — -Mrs.  C.  B.  Dunlap. 


26  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


POTATOES  WITH  BACON 

Pare  potatoes  of  an  even  size,  pass  an  apple  corer 
through  the  potato  lengthwise.  Make  a  roll  of  a  strip  of 
bacon  with  the  lean  inside  and  insert  into  the  hole  leaving  a 
V2  inch  or  more  extending  from  each  end.  Place  potatoes 
in  a  baking  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  basting  several  times. 
— Althea  L.  Godso. 


CORNED  BEEF 

5  lbs.  fresh  rump  beef  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

6  tablespoons  salt  1  teaspoon  salt-petre 

Cover  with  water  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  48  hours 
then  cook  3!/2  hours,  using  the  brine  the  beef  was  corned  in. 
— E.  C.  Hill. 


VEAL  STEAK 

1  veal  steak  Salt  and  pepper 

1/2  cup  evaporated  milk  y%  tablespoon  corn  starch 

V%  cup  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cut  steak  in  pieces  and  place  in  a  shallow  baker.  Pour 
mixture  over  it  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Baste  frequently. 
— Mrs.  D.  M.  Workman. 


ITALIAN  STEAK 

1  package  noodles  (egg  noodles  best),  cook  until  tender 
1  lb.  round  steak  ground,  brown  in  bacon  grease  or  butter 
1  large  onion  (cut  fine) 
1  green  pepper  (cut  fine) 

When  meat  is  brown  put  all  in  baking  dish  with  1  can 
tomato  soup  and  bake  for  1  hour. — Clara  Bent  Kendall. 


COOK  BOOK  27 


BAKED  PORK  CHOPS  WITH  APPLES 

6  pork  chops  Pepper 

6  tablespoon  cracker  crumbs    3  large  apples 

Salt  3  teaspoons  butter 

Dust  pork  chops  lightly  with  salt,  pepper,  cracker 
crumbs.  Place  in  a  baking  dish,  put  on  each  a  halved,  cored 
apple  containing  14  teaspoon  of  butter  and  cook  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  tender,  about  45  monutes. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Pruden. 


STEAMED  STEAK 

Take  a  round  steak  1  inch  thick.  Cut  into  3  inch 
squares,  dip  into  egg  then  flour  and  lay  in  frying  pan  with 
hot  drippings,  fry  until  brown  on  both  sdes.  Put  in  double 
boiler.  Add  2  cups  of  hot  water  to  juice  in  pan  and  pour 
over  meat.  Add  seasoning,  and  1  tablespoon  each  of  chop- 
ped parsley,  celery  and  onion.  .Steam  for  3  hours  or  until 
tender. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Dunn. 


HAM  AND  SWEET  POTATOES  EN  CASSEROLE 

1  slice  ham  1  inch  thick 

3  or  4  good  sized  sweet  potatoes 

1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 

CREAM  SAUCE 
1  tablespoon  butter  (level) 
1  tablespoon  flour  (round) 

11/2  cups  milk 

Cut  ham  to  individual  portions.  Peel  and  halve  sweet 
potatoes.  Put  ham  in  bottom  of  casserole,  cover  with  sweet 
potatoes  and  brown  sugar.  Pour  white  sauce  over  and  bake 
about  1  hour. — Mrs.  Leonard  Horr. 


STUFFED  PORK  TENDERLOIN 

Sew  tenderloins  together.  Salt  inside  and  stuff  with 
chopped  apples,  seedless  raisins  and  a  little  chopped  onion. 
Salt  and  flour  stuffed  tenderloins,  brown  on  both  sides,  add 
a  little  water  and  bake  until  tender. — Florelle  G.  Hawley. 


28 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

PORK  CHOPS  WITH  DRESSING 

Place  a  layer  of  pork  chops  in  bottom  of  casserole,  sea- 
son to  taste,  add  thick  layer  of  your  favorite  turkey  dress- 
ing, omitting  the  butter.  Cover  with  layer  of  pork  chops, 
season.    Cover  and  bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Cooper. 

PORTO  RICAN  POT  ROAST 

3  lb.  cheap  cut  of  beef  1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives      1  pint  can  tomatoes 
14  lb.  salt  pork  2  teaspoons  salt 

With  a  sharp  knife  make  incisions  in  beef  and  stuff 
them  with  the  olives  and  salt  pork  cut  in  pieces.  Brown  beef 
on  all  sides  in  hot  fat  to. which  the  onion  has  been  added. 
Add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  the  tomatoes  and  simmer  for 
about  3  hours.  Thicken  juice  for  gravy. — Mrs.  0.  F.  Schultz. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH 

3  bunches  carrots  2  large  cans  tomatoes 

4  stalks  celery  %  lb.  best  butter 

2  large  green  peppers  V2  1°-  chopped  beef 

1  lb.  mushrooms  Grated  cheese  to  suit  taste 

2  large  Spanish  onions  Salt  to  taste 

Brown  meat  in  butter,  also  onions.  Put  tomatoes  in 
large  kettle,  add  carrots  cut  in  small  pieces,  celery,  peppers, 
mushrooms  and  butter,  cheese,  meat  and  onions.  Cook  until 
tender.  Boil  macaroni  in  salt  water  until  tender,  then  wash 
in  cold  water.  Put  in  large  pan.  Add  sauce,  mix  and  serve 
add  more  cheese  while  hot.  Serves  12  large  servings. — Mrs. 
0.  F.  Schultz. 

BAKED  VEAL  FRICASSEE 

Order  1  part  beef  and  2  parts  veal  cut  in  2-inch  cubes. 
Roll  in  flour,  saute  in  butter  and  suet.  Pack  into  hot  bean 
jar.  Cover  with  hot  water.  Bake  slowly  several  hours,  salt- 
ing when  tender.  Serve  with  hot  baking  powder  biscuits. — 
Mrs.  W.  N.  Rockwell. 


COOK  BOOK  29 


VEAL  BIRDS  (Six  Portions) 

4 

IV2  pounds  veal  steak  14  teaspoon  salt 

4  slices  bacon  14  teaspoon  paprika 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  milk 

V'l  CUP  fresh  crumbs  2  tablespoons  fat 

Cut  veal  into  strips,  4  by  2*4  inches.  Put  the  trim- 
ming and  4  slices  bacon  through  the  food  chopper.  Cook 
the  chopped  meat  3  minutes  in  the  butter.  Add  to  this  the 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  milk.  Spread  this  mix- 
ture on  the  strips  of  veal.  Roll  and  tie  securely  with  white 
cord  (or  toothpicks),  roll  in  flour  and  saute  until  browned 
a  little  on  both  sides,  in  2  tablespoons  fat  in  frying  pan. 
Place  in  casserole  or  small  covered  pan.  Season  each  bird 
with  salt  and  small  piece  of  butter.  Pour  1V2  inches  water 
into  the  pan.  Cook  an  hour,  or  little  less,  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Gravy  may  be  made  by  adding  4  tablespoons  of  water 
to  2  level  tablespoons  of  flour,  mixing  carefully  and  gradu- 
ally pouring  into  the  stock  in  which  the  meat  has  been 
cooked.    Bring  to  a  boil. — Etta  S.  Tyler. 


VEAL  BIRDS 

1%  pounds  veal  cut  thin  and  in  small  pieces.  Mix  14 
pound  ground  pork,  %  cup  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper. 
Flatten  pieces  of  veal  by  pounding  with  a  potato  masher, 
roll  around  a  portion  of  the  dressing  and  fasten  with  a  tooth- 
pick Brown  well  in  butter,  add  boiling  water  to  about  half. 
Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  for  1*4  hours. — Althea  S. 
Godso. 


30  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


ESCALLOPED  HAM 

Two  cups  of  cold  boiled  ham  ground  or  chopped  fine. 
Six  hard  boiled  eggs.  When  cold  separate  whites  from 
yolks  and  chop  fine.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  two  tablespoons 
butter  and  four  of  flour;  stir  until  smooth,  add  a  pint  of 
rich  milk.  When  thick  add  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  bak- 
ing dish  and  put  a  layer  of  sauce;  first  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs.  Add  the  ham,  next  the  yolks  after  chopping  fine, 
then  add  the  whites  and  another  layer  of  white  sauce. 
Sprinkle  over  with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  add  small  pieces 
butter  and  bake  about  one-half  hour  or  until  brown. — F.  B. 
Mallory. 

ESCALLOPED  LAMB 

Remove  skin  and  fat  from  cold  roast  lamb,  cut  into 
small  pieces  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  cracker  crumbs,  cover 
crumbs  with  meat,  cover  meat  with  boiled  macaroni,  pour 
tomato  sauce  over  and  top  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.— Mrs.  C.  McCurdy. 

SHEPHERDS  PIE 

11/2  lbs.  round  steak  grounds  crackers  rolled 

14  lb.  salt  pork  .ground         2  tablespoons  milk 

1  small  onion  Paprika 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Add  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in  loaf  45  minutes.  Mash 
potatoes  (six  medium  sized)  as  for  table, 'beating  until  very 
light.  Add  one  egg  wrell  beaten.  Spread  on  top  of  meat, 
about  two  inches  deep  and  set  in  oven  to  brown  lightly. — 
Mrs.  A.  F.  Grenell. 

MEATS  AND  THEIR  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

WTith  roast  beef,  grated  horseradish. 

Roast  mutton,  currant  jelly. 

Roast  pork,  apple  sauce. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce. 

Fresh  salmon,  green  peas  cream  sauce. 

Roast  goose,  baked  apple. 


COOK  BOOK  31 


FROZEN  CRANBERRIES 

4  cups  cranberries  2V&  cups  sugar 

11/2  cups  boiling  water 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries,  add  water  and  sugar, 
and  cook  tea  minutes  skimming  during  the  cooking.  Put 
through  a  sieve,  cool,  and  pour  into  one  pound  baking  pow- 
der boxes.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  equal  parts  and  let 
stand  four  hours.  If  not  enough  to  fill  two  boxes  add  suffi- 
cient water.  Serve  as  a  substitute  for  cranberry  sauce  or 
jelly.— Mrs.  R.  B.  Battey. 


BAKED  CRANBERRIES 

1  quart  cranberries  3 14  cups  sugar 

1  tablespoon  water 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries.  Place  in  pan  and  cover 
with  sugar  and  water  and  set  in  moderate  oven  until  berries 
have  popped  open. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Battey. 


RED  APPLES 

6  apples  (small)  iy2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  water  1  cup  fruit  juice 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  add  fruit  juice  and 
some  red  cinnamon  drops.  Put  apples  in  and  cook  until 
tender.  Remove  apples  and  cook  syrup  until  it  begins  to 
jelly.    Pour  over  apples. — Mildred  N.  Gibson. 


APPLES  COOKED  WHOLE 

IV2  cups  sugar  and  %  cup  of  water  to  6  apples. 

Start  to  boil,  then  simmer  covered  for  one  hour. — Mrs. 
Harry  J.  Ilett. 


32 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

A  THANKSGIVING  JELLY 

Equal  parts  of  apples  and  quinces,  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,  barely  cover  with  water  and  cook  until  a  mush,  stir- 
ring and  mashing,  first  adding  one-eighth  measure  of  cran- 
berries. (To  half  a  peck  of  each  of  the  apples  and  quinces 
add  one  quart  of  the  berries).  Drain  in  a  jelly  bag,  allow 
three-fourths  measure  of  sugar,  boil  juice  rapidly  to  re- 
duce twenty  minutes,  add  the  sugar,  first  heating  it,  then 
boil  until  it  sheets  from  a  spoon — five  to  ten  minutes.  Put 
in  glasses. — May  B.  Judd. 

ORANGES  WITH  CRANBERRIES 

Wash  one  cupful  of  cranberries  and  cook  in  two  cupf uls 
of  water  until  tender.  Wash,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
boil  for  three  minutes.  Wash  again  and  put  through  a 
colander  and  then  through  a  strainer,  so  that  no  seeds  will 
remain.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Pare  two  oranges,  removing  all 
the  white  inner  skin.  Cut  them  in  very  small  pieces  and 
place  in  sherbet  glasses.  Pour  sauce  over  and  serve  with 
cake  or  wafers. — May  B.  Judd. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

V2  CUP  berries  for  each  person1/^  as  much  sugar  as  berries 
served  %  as  much  water  as  sugar 

Boil  cranberries  and  water  together  in  sauce  pan  with- 
out a  cover.  When  berries  are  soft  mash  with  a  spoon,  re- 
move from  fire,  add  sugar  at  once,  and  stir  in  well.  Put  in- 
to mould.  The  results  will  be  a  thick  sauce  that  will  jelly 
when  it  is  cold.  This  is  the  right  way  to  make  cranberry 
sauce. — Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Vial. 

CRANBERRY  MOLD 

3  heaping  cups  cranberries      2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Boil  20  minutes,  pressing  berries  when  soft.  Turn  into 
molds. 


COOK  BOOK  33 


VEGETABLES 

There  is  in  every  cook's  opinion  no  savory  dish  without 
an  onion.  But  lest  your  kissing-  should  be  spoiled  the  onion 
must  be  thoroughly  boiled. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

1  pint  beans  %  teaspoon  mustard 

i/2  lb.  fat  salt  pork  %  teaspoon  soda 

14  teaspoon  salt  .  2  tablespoons  molasses 

Soak  beans  over  night  in  water  to  more  than  cover.  In 
morning  drain.  Put  all  in  baking  dish  with  pork  in  center, 
cover  well  with  cold  water  and  bake  at  least  eight  hours. 
As  they  dry  out  hot  water  should  be  added,  a  little  at  a 
time,  until  last  hour,  when  they  should  be  allowed  to  brown. 

A  small  oven  placed  on  top  of  single  gas  burner  is  very 
good  in  which  to  bake  beans. — Georgia  H.  Duclos. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

11/2  pounds  beans  1  tablespoon  dark  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  molasses 
or 
2  tablespoons  dark  brown  sugar     V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 
V2  teaspoon  salt  %  pound  salt  pork 

Soak  beans  over  night,  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water 
and  1/2  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  let  boil  one 
hour  on  a  very  slow  fire.  Drain,  add  sugar,  molasses,  salt 
and  salt  pork.  Bury  the  pork  until  just  the  rind  can  be  seen. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake  8  hours  on  a  very  slow 
fire,  adding  enough  water  from  time  to  time  to  keep  it  moist 
but  not  floating.— Mrs  F  M  Bartlett 

BEETS  WITH  SAUCE 

Mix  1/2  cup  sugar  and  V2  tablespoon  corn  starch,  add  1/2 
cup  vinegar,  boil  5  minutes,  add  2  tablespoons  butter  To 
this  sauce  add  1  pint  cooked  beets,  cut  in  small  cubes,  (meas- 
ure after  cutting).  Let  it  stand  1/2  hour,  reheat  just  before 
serving. — Mrs.  George  B.  Horr. 


34  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


PARSNIP  CROQUETTES 

Boil  parsnips  in  salted  wates,  then  mash  them.    When 

cool  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt  and 

1  beaten  egg.    Make  into  croquettes,  rolled  in  dried  bread 

crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg-,  then  in  crumbs  again.     Fry  in 

wire  basked  in  deep  fat  to  a  delicate  golden  yellow, — Mrs. 
James  Kelso. 


CORN  FRITTERS 

1  Qgg  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

y%  can  corn  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  i/2  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  in  order  given  and  drop  from  spoon  into  hot  grease. 
-Mrs.  K.  C.  Holman. 


CORN,  SOUTHERN  FASHION 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

1  can  corn  2  eg&s,  well  beaten 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Mix  well  and  bake  30  minutes 
in  greased  pan. — Mrs.  John  W.  Matthews. 


BAKED  CAULIFLOUR  WITH  CHEESE 

Boil  cauliflower  unbroken  until  tender;  drain  and  place 
in  baking  dish;  blend  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  1  cup  of 
milk  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  pour  over  cauliflower. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  grated  cheese.    Bake. — Bonnie  S.  Craig. 


SCALLOPED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Cook  brussel  sprouts  in  boiling  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Drain  and  place  in  baking  dish.  Cover  with  cream 
sauce,  sprinkle  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown. — Jane  Toates. 


COOK  BOOK  35 


SWEET  POTATOES 

Par-boil  sweet  potatoes,  skin  and  slice.  Put  in  pan  and 
sprinkle  with  salt,  %  cup  brown  sugar,  enough  milk  to  come 
to  top  edge  of  potatoes.    Bake  until  brown. — Mary  M.  Vial. 


GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

6  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes 
%  cup  brown  sugar  %  cup  butter 

Boil  potatoes  until  soft  (not  too  soft),  drain  off  water, 
heat  in  iron  skillet,  butter  and  brown  sugar,  add  potatoes 
when  butter  is  melted.  Cook  over  gas  about  15  minutes 
turning  potatoes  several  times. — Margaret  E.  Thompson. 


CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  and  peel  3  lbs.  sweet  potatoes,  slice  medium  thick, 
*4  cup  butterine  or  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  dissolve  in 
frying  pan  and  add  */2  cuP  boiling  water;  let  come  to  a  boil 
and  place  potatoes  in  this  syrup  and  fry. — Dorothy  Mavor. 


BAKED    SWEET    POTATOES    AND    MARSHMALLOWS 

Cook  6  large  sweet  potatoes  in  boiling  water,  mash 
these;  add  hot  milk  and  butter;  beat  them.  Put  them  into  a 
casserole  and  cover  with  marshmallows.  Put  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes  until  the  marshmallows  are  light  brown. 
— Mrs.  James  A.  Walker. 


CARROTS 

Put  piece  butter  size  of  egg  in  kettle,  melt ;  then  cut  up 
onions,  add  carrots  (cut  small),  cover  just  barely  with  water 
and  cook  for  about  14  hour.  If  you  like  parsley,  that  adds 
to  the  flavor.  Be  sure  not  to  use  too  much  water  in  cook- 
ing.— Mrs.  J.  E.  Edmonds. 


36  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


TO  BROWN  POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes  and  put  in  shallow  pyrex  dish.  Put  a  few 
drops  of  olive  oil  on  each  potato  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Bake  one  hour  turning  occasionally. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Cooper. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  butter  and  2  j  * 
flour,  1  pint  milk,  14  teaspoon  salt.  Rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together  until  smooth  and  add  it  to  the  milk  when 
boiling.  Cook  8  good  sized  potatoes  with  skins,  when  cold 
cut  into  dice.  Fill  baking  dish  first  with  layer  of  potatoes, 
then  sauce,  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoon  green  pep- 
per and  14  teaspoon  grated  cheese  and  so  on  until  dish  is 
filled.  Bake  in  slow  oven  for  1  hour  with  dish,  covered. 
Remove  cover  when  done  and  brown  under  blaze. — Mrs.  E. 
L.  Dunn. 

FRIED  APPLES 

1  quart  quartered  apples  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  cupful  sugar 

1 

Put  in  skillet  over  slow  fire  for  15  minutes;  take  cover 
off  for  5  minutes  and  serve.  Excellent  served  with  roast 
pork  or  pork  chops. — Mrs.  Albert  Heppes. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 

1  can  tomatoes,  V£  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  1  good 
sized  onion  chopped,  1  green  pepper  chopped,  big  lump  of 
butter,  2  or  3  drops  tobasco  sauce.  Bake  for  20  minutes. 
— Margaret  T.  Vial. 

BAKED  CABBAGE 

Boil  cabbage  15  minutes,  changing  water  once,  drain, 
cool  chop.  Add  2  eggs  beaten,  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  3  teaspoons  cream,  bake. — Mary  M. 
Vial. 


COOK  BOOK  37 


STUFFED  EGG  PLANT   . 

Cut  the  egg  plant  in  half  from  end  to  end.  Scrape  out 
the  inside,  leaving  the  walls  at  least  half  an  inch  thick. 
Chop  the  pulp  and  mix  with  it  a  cupful  of  chopped  tomatoes, 
a  chopped  green  pepper,  and  half  of  a  small  can  of  Under- 
wood's Deviled  Ham.  Fill  the  sides  with  this  mixture,  cup- 
ful of  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the  tops,  put  in  a  baking 
pan  and  roast,  basting  often  with  hot  water  from  around 
them.  When  tender  serve  with  hot  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  W. 
L.  Bourland. 


FRIED  EGG  PLANT 

Slice  very  thin  and  peal,  leaving  in  salt  and  water  for 
at  least  two  hours;  cover  with  weighted  plate  to  prevent 
coming  to  surface.  When  ready  to  fry,  dip  each  slice  in 
beaten  egg  and  then  fine  bread  crumbs  and  cook  very  thor- 
oughly until  a  crisp  brown.  Half  butter  and  half  crisco  is 
very  satisfactory  for  frying,  and  only  enough  to  saute  with- 
out burning.    Deep  fat  is  not  necessary. — Mrs.  John  Mavor. 

DELMONICA  BEETS 

1  tablespoon  butter  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  flour,  % 
cup  sugar,  add  1/2  CUP  vinegar,  l/%  cup  water.  Cook  slowly 
and  pour  over  cooked  beets,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Stand  where 
they  will  keep  hot  for  15  minutes  or  more. — Mrs.  Durland. 

BAKED  ONIONS 

Select  medium  sized  white  onions  and  boil  until  tender 
in  salt  water.  Drain  and  put  in  casserole.  Cover  with  thick 
white  sauce,  grated  cheese  and  cracker  crumbs  and  brown 
in  oven. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Battey. 

CABBAGE  RELISH 

2  eggs  beaten  in  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Fill  cup  with 
cream.  Boil  cabbage  in  salty  water,  when  cabbage  is  cooked 
put  in  the  above  and  let  come  to  a  boil  quickly. — Mrs.  T.  B. 
Wells. 


38 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

Breakfast  Dishes 

"Dinner  may  be  pleasant; 

So  may  social  tea ; 

But  yet,  me  thinks  the  breakfast 

Is  good  enough  for  me." 

FRENCH  TOAST 

Beat  2  eggs  thoroughly,  add  V2  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  %  cup  of  milk.  Mix  well  and  pour  into 
shallow  dish  or  pan.  Cut  stale  bread  in  thin  slices,  put  one 
slice  at  a  time  in  egg  mixture,  let  soak  about  V2  minute,  then 
brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  griddle.  Serve  hot  with  maple 
syrup,  jam  or  honey. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Kelso. 

POPOVERS 

Sift  together  1  cup  of  flour  and  14  teaspoon  of  salt,  add 
gradually  %  cups  of  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  a  smooth 
batter  is  formed.  Add  2  eggs  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon 
tinted  and  %  teaspoon  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter.  Beat 
with  an  egg-beater  at  least  2  minutes.  Turn  into  buttered 
custard  cups  or  iron  gem  cups  and  bake  35  minutes  in  hoc 
oven. 

The  thick  and  heavier  cups  are  much  better  for  this 
purpose.  The  strongest  heat  must  come  evenly  from  the 
bottom  of  the  oven  and  cups  if  you  wish  the  mixture  to  puff 
well  and  popover.    Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Durland. 

FRENCH  TOAST 

2  eggs  y%  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk 
Mix  above  ingredients  well  together.  Dip  a  slice  of 
bread  into  some  of  the  mixture,  which  has  been  poured  into 
a  soup  plate,  continue  adding  mixture  and  dipping  slices  un- 
til a  dozen  have  been  used.  Let  stand ;  spread  on  a  platter 
for  half  an  hour,  then  toast  on  both  sides.  Serve  very  hot 
with  powdered  sugar. — Mildred  N.  Gibson. 

RICE  PANCAKES 

114  cups  boiled  rice  2  tablspoons  sugar 

2%  cups  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

2%  teaspoons  baking  powder        2  eggs 

Small  lump  of  melted  butter,  milk  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter.   Serve  hot  with  maple  syrup. — Myrtle  Powers. 


COOK  BOOK  39 


GOLDENROD  TOAST 

Grate  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  scatter  it  over 
cream  toast. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 


WAFFLES 

2  eggs 

Y2  pt.  of  milk 

V2  Pt.  of  water 

V2  large  tablespoon  of  butter 

l!/2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

Flour  to  thicken 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  melt  the  but- 
ter, stir  it  into  the  yolks  and  add  the  salt,  milk  and  whites 
of  the  eggs,  stirring  well.  Beat  in  quickly  the  flour,  a  little 
of  which  should  be  mixed  with  the  baking  powder.  The 
batter  should  be  thin  enough  to  pour. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Innes. 

WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour 

4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  (well  beaten) 

IY2  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

—Mrs.  C.  H.  Glashagel. 

CREAM  WAFFLES 

2  cups  sour  cream 
1  cup  flour 

3  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch 
1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg 
Beat  egg,  add  cream,  into  which  the  soda  has  been  beat- 
en, then  flour  previously  sifted  with  salt  and  corn  starch. 
Bake  in  hot  waffle  iron. — Mrs.  Edna  M.  Dull. 


40 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

!/£,  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cup  milk 

2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  melted  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt,  add  milk  to 
slightly  beaten  egg  yolks.    Mix  well  and  add  to  dry  ingred- 
ients.    Add  melted  shortening  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Tewksbury. 

BREADED  OMELET  (For  Four  People) 

Cut  3  thick  (94  inch)  slices  of  bread,  cut  slices  into  4 
parts.  Scramble  3  eggs  with  4  tablespoons  milk  or  cream 
and  little  salt.  Dip  bread  into  eggt  fry  lightly  on  one  side 
and  turn.  Add  remainder  of  scrambled  egg,  turn  fire  low, 
cover  closely.  Turn  out,  inverted  upon  hot  chop  plate  and 
serve  at  once.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  small  radishes  and 
serve  with  tart  jelly. — Mrs.  William  Noble  Rockwell. 

RICE  CAKES 

1  cup  cooked  rice 
1/2  cup  sweet  milk 

2  level  teaspoons  flour 

3  eggs  beaten  separately 

Add  whites  last 
Cook  in  small  cakes  on  griddle  and  serve  with  maple 
syrup  or  jelly. — Mrs.  Robt.  Frey. 

GERMAN  POTATO  PAN  CAKES 

5  nice  Irish  potatoes,  size  of  baseball,  grated 
1  egg 

1  tablespoon  flour 
8  pinches  of  salt 

Stir  or  beat  about  2  minutes.  Cut  up  and  try  out  (fry) 
enough  bacon  so  that  enough  grease  will  be  had  to  fry  the 
cakes  and  serve  with  jelly. — Mrs.  O.  F.  Schultz. 


COOK  BOOK  41 


BREAD  OMELET 

4  eggs 

V2  CUP  bread  crumbs 
%  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  of  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  enough  milk  to  soften.  Beat 
yolks  and  add  to  crumbs.  Then  seasonings.  Lastly  the 
beaten  whites.  Pour  into  buttered  spider.  Cover  and  cook 
very  slowly  for  10  minutes,  or  until  solid.  Fold  and  serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 

CRACKER  OMELET 

Break  crackers  in  bowl;  cover  with  milk;  beat  3  or  4 
eggs  and  stir  in  cracker  mixture ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; fry  several  pieces  of  bacon;  turn  omelet  in  fat  and 
brown  on  both  sides. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Hilbish. 

BAKED  OMELET 

Make  a  white  sauce  of : 
2  tablespoons  flour 
2  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  milk 

When  sauce  is  cool  add: 
Yolks  of  5  eggs,  beaten 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Whip  in  5  beaten  whites 

Pour  mixture  into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  for  14  hour.    Serve  at  once. — Mary  M.  Vial. 

QUAKER  OMELET 

3  eggs — yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately 
1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Add  cornstarch  to  egg  yolks,  then  the  whites,  add  milk 
lest.    Cook  slowly  5  to  8  minutes. — Mrs.  Allan  Eddy. 


42  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 

It  looks  so  dainty — so  tempting, 

So  fit  for  the  taste  of  a  queen, 

Such  epicurean  colors 

Such  garnishings  of  green. 

Such  art!    But  I  turn  from  it  bravely 

I  dare  not  do  more  than  look, 

For  I  know,  were  I  but  to  taste  it, 

I  would  fall  in  love  with  the  cook. 


TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  PINEAPPLE 

Mix  together  chopped  pineapple  and  celery  in  propor- 
tion of  2  of  pineapple  to  1  of  celery.  Pour  French  dressing- 
over  this  mixture  and  let  stand  in  the  ice  box.  Drain  the 
juice  and  mix  with  oil  mayonnaise  dressing  just  before  fill- 
ing tomatoes  with  this  mixture. — Florelle  G.  Hawley. 


FRUIT  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

Use  canned  fruit  salad : 
1-3  cup  orange  juice 
1-3  cup  lemon  juice 
Fill  cup  with  juice  from  fruit 
Heat  juices 
2  eggs 
lo  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  flour 

Mix  together.  Pour  hot  liquid  into  mixture  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  for  20  minutes.  Dressing  for  8  to  10  salads. 
Add  whipped  cream. — Maud  M.  Wakefield. 


CHICKEN  SALAD  (For  Twelve  People) 

3  Ub.  chicken 
1%  lbs.  veal 

Cook  together.    When  cool  take  off  bone  and  add : 

1  can  peas 

Quite  a  lot  of  celery 

2  hard-boiled  eggs 
1  can  pimentoes 

4  slices  of  pineapple,  cut 

Add  salad  dressing  and  whip  cream. — Jane  Toates. 


COOK  BOOK  43 


PINEAPPLE  GELATINE  SALAD 

1  can  grated  pineapple 
Juice  of  2  oranges 
Juice  of  1  lemon 
V2  cup  of  sugar 

Dissolve  a  package  of  Knox  gelatine  (a  package  con- 
tains 2  envelopes)  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  strain.  Add 
the  dissolved  gelatine  to  the  first  mixture  and  set  away  to 
harden.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  fluffed  up  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Hacker. 

MARSHMALLOW  FRUIT  SALAD 

8  or  10  marshmallows 

1  small  can  sliced  pineapple 

2  apples 

1  cup  blanched  almonds 
1  cup  seeded  Tokay  grapes 
]/2  pint  whipping  cream 

Cut  marshmallows  in  4  pieces  and  allow  to  stand  in 
pineapple  juice  (over  night  if  possible),  add  pineapple 
cubed,  apples  cubed,  almonds,  grapes  and  whipped  cream 
just  before  serving.  Other  fruits  can  also  be  added  if  de- 
sired.— Mrs.  H.  D.  Kelso. 

CARROT  SALAD 

3  medium  sized  raw  carrots 

14  cup  nut  meats,  broken  up 

14  stalk  celery  (depends  on  size) 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Grate  carrots,  add  nuts  and  cut  up  celery.  Mix  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  letuuce. — Mrs.  Russell 
Howard. 

STUFFED  PRUNE  AND  ORANGE  SALAD 

Thoroughly  wash  prunes  and  soa*k  over  night.  Cook 
until  soft  adding  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  to  taste.  Cool 
thoroughly.  Arrange  lettuce  leaves  on  plate,  also  quarter  of 
orange  (or  slices)  in  circle  on  lettuce.  Stuff  prunes  (after 
removing  pits)  with  cream  cheese,  and  place  a  prune  be- 
tween the  quarter  of  oranges.  Place  a  generous  teaspoon  of 
salad  dressing  in  center. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Crook. 

SALAD 

Upon  a  lettuce  leaf  lay  a  slice  of  pineapple,  and  on  this 
a  small  round  mould  of  lemon  gelatine  with  chopped  English 
walnuts,  served  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Kissick. 


44 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY  

FROZEN  SALAD  (For  Twelve) 

2  Blue  Label  cheese  4  slices  pineapple  cut 

1  cup  thick  boiled  dressing-      1  cup  maraschino  cherries 
1  cup  walnut  meats  cut  1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 

1  bottle  stiffly  whipped  cream 
Mix  in  order  given  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4 
hours.    Serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Gaylord. 

FRUIT  SALAD  (For  Nineteen  People) 

9  oranges 
%  lb.  grapes 
94  can  pineapple 

Let  stand  in  a  bowl  for  2  hours,  then  drain  off  juice,  but 
do  not  use  the  juice.  When  ready  for  the  salad  cut  up  fine 
4  or  5  apples,  2  bananas,  %  lb.  walnut  meats,  cut  fine.  Mix 
with  oranges,  grapes  and  pineapple.  When  ready  to  serve 
mix  with  the  following  dressing: 

3  eggs  IV2  teaspoons  salt 
14  lb.  butter                              %  cup  vinegar 

%  cup  sugar  l1/^  teaspoons  mustard 

Cook  until  it  thickens,  then  add  1  pint  of  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Fry. 

GREEN  SALAD 

1-  package  Knox  gelatine 

1  cup  blanched  almonds 

1  cup  sliced  sweet  pickles 

1  cup  stuffed  olives,  sliced 

1  small  can  pineapple  cut  in  pieces 

Soak  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  water,  when  dissolved  add 
IV2  cups  cold  water.  Vfc  cup  water 

1%  cups  vinegar  y±  cup  sugar 

Boil  until  it  threads  and  turn  over  the  gelatine  while  a 
little  warm,  add  enough  green  paste  for  desired  color.  Let 
cool  and  add  the  ingredients.  Serve  with  your  favorite  salad 
dressing.    Enough  for  12. — Mrs.  Willis  Ward. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Yolk  of  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  water 

Boil  the  above  until  thick.  While  hot  add  12  marsh- 
mallows  and  a  cup  of  chopped  pecans  or  English  walnuts. 
Just  before  serving  on  salad,  add  V2  pint  whipped  cream. 
This  is  excellent  on  any  fruit  salad  but  particularly  on  apri- 
cots (canned). — Mrs.  J.  E.  Edmonds. 


COOK  BOOK  45 


FRUIT  SALAD 

4  oranges  3  bananas 

White  grapes  Pineapple 

14  lb.  English  walnuts 
Serve  with  dressing. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

4  tablespoons  pineapple  juice 
4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separated 

Mix  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  After  having 
beaten  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  add  to  mixture.  Boil 
slowly  for  5  minutes.  When  cool  fold  in  one  cup  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  James  A.  Walker. 

LUNCHEON  DELIGHT  SALAD 

1  cup  chopped  pimentoes  or  olives,  V2  cup  chopped  al- 
monds, added  to  2  cups  well  seasoned  cottage  cheese.  Place 
lettuce  leaves  on  large  platter,  place  pears  quartered  all 
around  and  in  the  center  pile  the  cheese  mixed  with  olives, 
pimentoes  and  nuts,  garnish  with  long  narrow  strips  of  red 
pimento. — Vera  Beth  Schultz. 

CUCUMBER-PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  envelope  gelatine  1  can  pineapple 

1/2  cup  sugar  1  large  cucumber 

Soak  gelatine  in  1/2  cup  cold  water.  Cut  pineapple  and  • 
cucumber  in  small  pieces.  Measure  pineapple  juice.  Dis- 
solve gelatine  in  boiling  water.  Have  three  cups  of  liquid 
all  together.  Pour  over  pineapple  and  cucumber  and  set  on 
ice  to  harden.  Serve  with  salad  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Makes  8  servings.- — Myrtle  Tudor  Abrams. 

CRAB  SALAD  LOAF 

1  cup  crab  meat  1  cup  XX  cream 

1  cup  cabbage  Salt 

1  cup  celery  %  cup  mayonnaise 

1  tablespoon  gelatine 
Cut  up  crab  meat  into  small  pieces.  Chop  celery  and 
cabbage.  Whip  the  cream.  Add  mayonnaise  and  gelatine 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Combine  with  cel- 
ery, cabbage  and  crab.  Place  in  wet  mold  and  chill.  Serve 
on  1/2  tomato  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  0.  F. 
Schultz. 


46  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

— 

TANGERINE  SALAD 

12  tangerines  or  oranges  Yi  cup  grapefruit  juice 

1  sweet  green  pepper,  chopped1^  cup  pecan  nuts 
14  cup  pineapple  cubes 

1  1  cup  strawberries,  cut,  or  candied  cherries 

Peel  tangerines,  remove  pulp  in  unbroken  sections  free 
from  membrane,  mix  with  pepper,  chopped  fine,  sprinkle 
with  fruit  juice,  place  on  ice  1  hour.  Serve  each  person  a 
portion  on  lettuce  leaf;  place  on  top  the  nuts  and  fruit  mix- 
ed.   Serve  with  fruit  salad  dressing  with  cream  as  follows: 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice         14  teaspoon  mustard 
2  eggs,  beaten  */$  teaspoon  salt 

1-3  cup  water  V»  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  XX  cream     . 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg,  lemon  juice  and  water 
and  cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  thick — 
cool.    When  ready  to  use  add  the  stiffly  beaten  cream. — 
Mrs.  J.  0.  Kelso. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Add  slightly  beaten  yolks  2  eggs     1  teaspoon  salt 
314  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with     V2  teaspoon  paprika 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Add  gradually  while  stirring  constantly  %  cup  milk  and 
1-3  cup  vinegar.    Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thick- 
ens (about  10  monutes).     Remove  from  boiler  and  beat  2 
minutes.    Set  aside  to  cool. 
1-3  cup  candied  cherries  cut  in  small  pieces 
Add  chopped  nuts  if  desired    Add  fruit  to  mixture 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Add  V2  cup  cream  (whipped) 

14  cup  orange  pulp  2  tablespoons  pineapple  juice 

14  cup  canned  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces 

Pack  in  mold,  adjust  cover  to  make  tight.  Pack  in 
equal  parts  salt  and  ice.  Let  stand  at  least  2  hours.  Serves 
e  people. — Mrs.  Samuel  F.  Nichols. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD 

1  can  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  12  bay  leaves 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  stalk  celery 

2  tablespoons  Knox  gelatine    1  small  onion,  cut  fine 

Paprika,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Soak  gelatine  in  V2  cup  cold  water.    Cook  all  but  gela- 
tine together.    Strain,  add  gelatine  and  mold.     Fill  center 
with  chicken  or  celery  salad. — Mrs.  E.  Simpson. 


COOK  BOOK  47 


WHIP  CREAM  SALAD 

lib.  malaga  grapes  cut  in  half  and  seeded 
}4  lb.  pecan  or  English  walnut  meats  cut  fine 
1  can  sliced  and  diced  pineapple 
1  box  marshmallows,  cut  twice 

DRESSING 
*4  teaspoon  mustard  Juice  of  1  lemon 

%  teaspoon  salt  y2  cup  cream 

Yolks  4  eggs  or  3  whole  ones,  beaten 
Stir  and  cook  until  thick.  Let  cool  and  add  1  tablespoon 
sugar.  Whip  U>  pint  cream  and  add  to  dressing.  Let  stand 
about  2  hours  before  serving.  Wlien  ready  to  serve  pour 
over  fruit  and  nut  mixture  and  stir.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Enough  for  8  people. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Kasson. 

FRUIT  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

Lettuce,  pineapple,  peach  and  orange  for  salad  com- 
bination. 

DRESSING 

%  cup  pineapple  juice  y%  cup  sugar 

%  cup  peach  juice  1  teaspoon  corn  starch 

%  cup  orange  juice  2  eggs 

WThen  juices  are  hot,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  with 
sugar  and  dissolved  corn  starch.  Cook  in  double  boiler  20 
minutes.  When  cold  and  ready  to  serve,  add  %  cup  cream, 
whipped. — Mrs.  Fred  Browne. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

6  oranges,  peel  and  remove  all  of  the  white  skin 

1  large  can  shredded  pineapple  (if  large  pieces,  cut  fine) 

1  can  white  cherries  (pitted) 

1  box  Knox  gelatine 

Cover  gelatine  with  cold  water,  when  dissolved,  add  1 
quart  of  boiling  water  and  2Vo  cups  of  sugar.  When  this 
cools,  add  the  fruit  and  fruit  juices  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons. 
This  mav  be  served  with  whipped  cream  or  served  as  a 
fruit  for  breakfast.  If  too  hard  do  not  add  so  much  gelatine. 
—Mrs.  C.  W.  Hunter. 

Tomato  Jellied  Salad 

To  1  can  of  tomatoes,  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
sugar,  add  1  clove,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  2  pepper  corns  and  % 
small  onion.  Cook  5  minutes,  strain  and  add  2  tablespoons 
of  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold 
water.  Put  in  mold  which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water  and 
when  partially  set  add  1  cup  of  chopped  penpers  and  1  cup  of 
chopped  celery.  Serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  M.  W. 
Heath. 


48 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY         

PERFECTION  SALAD 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Gelatine  '  2  cup  sugar 

V2  cup  cold  water 

14  cup  mild'  vinegar  2  cups  celery  cut  in  small 

1  pint  boiling  water  pieces 

1.  teaspoonful  salt  14   can  sweet  red  peppers 

1  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage  finely  cut 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes ;  add  vine- 
gar, lemon  juice,  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.  Strain  and 
when  beginning  to  set,  add  remaining  ingredients.  Turn  in- 
to a  mold  and  chill. — Nellie  M.  Powers. 

DRESSING  FOR  VEGETABLE  SALAD 

1/2  onion 

Twice  as  much  chopped  parsley  as  onion 

1/2  can  pimentoes,  chopped  fine 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  olive  oil 

5  tablespoons  vinegar 

Y2  teaspoon  sugar 

Place  vegetables  in  pint  jar  and  add  oil  mixture  and 
shake  for  a  few  minutes.  Shake  each  time  before  using. — 
Jane  Toates. 

CHIFFONADE  SALAD  DRESSING 

For  head  lettuce  or  shaved  cabbage. 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 
2  tablespoons  chopped  pimento 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine 

1  teaspoon  salt 

14  teaspoon  paprika 

!/>  teaspoon  black  pepper 

5  tablespoons  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Mix,  chill  and  shake  thoroughly  before  using. — Mrs. 
Richard  Mathews. 

SIMPLE  CABBAGE  SALAD 

Put  cabbage  through  grinder  or  slice  extremely  fine. 
For  each  cup  of  prepared  cabbage  add  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  salt,  dash  of  pepper  and  1  tea- 
spoon salad  dressing  or  thick  cream  (either  sweet  or  sour) . 
If  cream  is  used,  add  a  little  more  vinegar.  If  red  cabbage 
is  used,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  if  white,  garnish  with  beets 
or  pimento. — Mrs.  W.  N.  Rockwell. 


COOK  BOOK  49 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

14  teaspoon  salt  14  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  1  orange  2  eggs 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

%  cup  pineapple  juice 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  the 
juice  from  a  can  of  pineapple  with  the  strained  orange  and 
lemon  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thickened.  Serve 
plain,  or  add  whipped  cream  when  cold. — Mrs.  Leonard  W. 
Horr. 

OIL  MAYONNAISE 

1  scant  teaspoon  Coleman's  mustard 
1  scant  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  scant  teaspoon  sugar  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  IV2  cups  oil,  olive  or  mazola 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  egg  yolks,  and  when  well  mixed 
add  oil  very  slowly  drop  by  drop,  beating  constantly  with  a 
fork.  As  mixture  thickens,  thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  alternately  until  all  is  used,  beating  constantly. — 
Aileen  S.  Clarke. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

French  dressing  is  made  especially  tasty  for  head  let- 
tuce by  adding  chili  sauce,  thinly  sliced  onions,  chopped  har- 
boiled  eggs  and  green  pepper. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Cooper. 

SALAD  DRESSING 

1  large  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  large  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk 

This  will  make  a  white  sauce.  Beat  2  eggs  in  a  bowl, 
add  !/2  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, 1-3  cup  vinegar.  Add  to  white  sauce  and  let  boil  up. 
Stir  while  on  the  fire  constantly.  Makes  about  1  pint. — Mrs. 
Gustafson. 

SALAD  DRESSING 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1/2  cup  olive  oil  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  table  spoons  vinegar  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

1  pint  whipped  cream 
Whipped  cream  added  when  ready  to  use.     Beat  egg 
yolks,  add  gradually  V2  of  the  oil  and  lemon  juice.     Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Stir  and  gradually  add  oil. — 
Mrs.  Myron  J.  Kelly. 


YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


SALAD  DRESSING 

Boil  together: 

1  cup  vinegar  1  tablespoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 
1  tablespoon  sugar  %  tablespoon  salt 

Yolks  of  2  eggs 

When  this  is  cooked,  beat  it  slowly  into  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs. — C.  F.  Knights. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING  WITH  OIL 

1.4  cup  vinegar  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  a  few  minutes  then  pour  mixture  over  2  table- 
spoons flour  softened  with  4  tablespoons  oil.  Again  pour 
mixture  over  2  well  beaten  egg  yolks.  When  cold  beat  in 
slowly  1  cup  of  oil. — Althea  S.  Godso. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Juice  of  1  can  of  pineapple      2  eggs 

¥z  cup  sugar  14  cup  whipped  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Heat  juice  until  just  warm;  blend  together  flour  and 
butter,  add  egg  yolks  beaten,  and  the  sugar,  then  the  egg 
whites  whipped  stiff.  Pour  warm  juice  into  this,  add  vine- 
gar and  stir  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold,  add 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  George  M.  Stevens. 

GOLDEN  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALADS 

14  cup  pineapple,  apple  or  other  light  colored  fruit  juice 
14  cup  lemon  juice 
1-3  cup  sugar 
2  eggs 

Beat  eggs  sufficiently  to  blend  yolk  and  white,  add  fruit 
juice,  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thickened.  When  cold  fold  into  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Rus- 
sell E.  Royer. 


COOK  BOOK  51 


SALAD  DRESSING 

1  pint  sour  cream  1  tablespoon  flour 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1-3  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

V'l  cup  vinegar 

Directions: — Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  in  sugar,  flour, 
salt,  mustard  and  vinegar;  then  stir  in  sour  cream.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick. — Mrs.  Russell  Howard. 

SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  LETTUCE 

1  teaspoon  salt  V£  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vz  cup  vinegar  (scant)     y%  onion  grated  or  onion  salt 
V'l  cup  sugar  Paprika 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
Do  not  cook.    This  dressing  will  keep. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Cary. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

Juice  of  1  orange  1  egg 

Juice  of  1  lemon  i/4  CUP  sugar 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth.  When  cool  beat  in 
i/2  cup  of  cream  whipped. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Cary. 

RED  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  taragon  vinegar  1  desert  spoon  paprika 

IV2  cups  olive  oil  2  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine 

IV2  cups  Sniders  catsup  1  chopped  red  pepper 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  chopped  green  pepper 

1  tablespoon  chopped  chives  or  onion  tops 

Keep  in  covered  jar  in  cool  place.  Half  this  rule  makes 
1  quart. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

1  teaspoon  red  pepper,  chopped 

1  teaspoon  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  teaspoon  chives 

3  tablespoons  chili  sauce 

3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

salt  and  paprika 

— Mrs.  F.  L.  Innes. 


52 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY  

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

3  cakes  of  blue  label  cream  cheese 

1/2  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing 

V2  pint  of  whipped  cream 

1  small  bottle  of  maraschino  cherries 

1  small  can  of  white  cherries 

1  can  of  pineapple,  cut  fine 

V2  CUP  0I  pecan  nut  meats 

Beat  cheese  to  a  cream;  mix  with  the  fruit  and  add 
whipped  cream.  Put  in  melon  molds  (baking  powder  cans 
are  splendid) ;  pack  in  ice  and  salt  as  one  would  a  mousse  and 
let  stand  about  3  hours.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  may- 
onnaise.— Bertha  C.  Hansen. 

PIMENTO  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

Chill  pimentoes,  stuff  with  cream  cheese  mixed  with 
chopped  olives.  Place  on  ice  and  when  firm,  slice  and  serve 
on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Bonnie  G. 
Craig. 

ORANGE  DELICIOUS 

Juice  of  3  oranges  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Grated  rind  of  1  5  tablespoons  of  sugar 

1  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch 
Cook.    When  cool,  add  1  bottle  of  whipping  cream. — 
Mrs.  Harry  J.  Ilett. 

CHEESE  SALAD 

2  cakes  Philadelphia  cheese   1  tablespoon  dissolved  gelatine 
*/2  CUP  chopped  olives  V2  cup  cream  (whipped) 

14  cup  chopped  pimentoes      Add  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours  or  put  in  ice  box  for  a 
few  hours. — Mrs.  Harry  J.  Ilett. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  can  white  cherries,  drained  V2  cup  of  sugar 

1  can  pineapple,  diced  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  pecan  nuts,  broken  IV2  envelopes  Knox  gelatine 

Juice  of  3  lemons  1/2  pint  whipped  cream 

Juice  of  1  orange  3  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  and  add  1  cup 
hot  pineapple  juice.  Add  fruits,  nuts,  sugar,  etc.,  also  may- 
onnaise, whites  of  eggs  and  whipped  cream.  Mold  on  ice. 
Serves  12  to  14  people. 

To  make  mayonnaise : 
Yolks  of  3  eggs  1  lemon 

1  pint  of  olive  oil  Paprika 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Battey. 


COOK  BOOK  53 


LUNCHEON  DISHES 

Study  simplicity  in  the  number  of  dishes,  and  variety 
in  the  character  of  the  meals. 


CRAB  TOAST 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  pint  crab  meat 

y%  teaspoon  mustard  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

J/2  teaspoon  salt  1  hard-boiled  egg 

%  cup  of  milk 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings 
in  double  boiler.  Add  lemon  juice,  diced  eggs  and  crab  meat. 
Mix  well  and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  0.  F.  Schultz. 

TIMBALE  OF  SALMON 

1  lb.  can  salmon  4  tablespoons  cream 

4  eggs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Remove  salmon  from  can,  mash  fine,  adding  cream,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  them  in.  Fill  greased 
cups  %  full  and  stand  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake 
15  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. — 
Margaret  T.  Vial. 

CHOP  SUEY 

2  large  stalks  celery  1  can  mushrooms 

2  large  onions  1  tablespoon  molasses 

1  lb.  veal,  cut  fine  1  tablespoon  flour 

V"i  lb.  pork,  cut  fine  1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  Suey  sauce 

Cook  meat  3  minutes  in  3  tablespoons  boiling  fat,  add 
celery  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  flour,  cook  10  minutes,  add 
mushrooms,  molasses,  water  and  Suey  sauce. — Mrs.  R.  P. 
Moore. 

CREAMED  CELERY  ON  TOAST 

1  cup  celery  cooked  in  small  pieces 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices 

Cream  sauce  made  of  2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  rounded  tablespoon  flour. — Mrs.  Otto  Heppes. 


54  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CREAMED  EGGS  AND  MUSHROOMS 

Take  1  box  or  1  lb.  of  fresh  mushrooms,  peel  and  fry 
for  ten  minutes  in  hot  butter.  Have  ready  4  or  5  eggs  boil- 
ed hard  and  cut  in  medium  sized  pieces.  Make  5  or  6  slices 
of  toast  (well  buttered) .  Lay  the  mushrooms  on  them,  add 
boiled  eggs  which  should  be  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Cover  all  with  a  white  sauce.  Serve  at  once,  hot.  Very  nice. 
— F.  B.  Mallory. 


CHOPS  FOR  LUNCHEON 

Cut  lamb  chops  rather  thick,  salt  and  pepper  them ;  roll 
in  flour,  then  in  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Cook  8 
minutes  in  butter,  turning  often.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  5 
minutes  to  finish  cooking.  Arrange  on  hot  platter  and  place 
a  broiled  mushroom  on  each.    Serve  with  jelly  sauce. 


SAUCE 
1  glass  currant  jelly  1  piece  of  peel  cut  very  fine 

V'l  CUP  orange  juice  2  teaspoons  chopped  mint 

—Mrs.  0.  F.  Schultz. 


BAKED  RICE  CHEESE 

1/2  cup  of  rice  Paprika 

2  tablespoons  fat  Salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  y%  cup  milk 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

Cook  rice  in  boiling  water  till  tender  and  then  add  white 
sauce,  add  %  of  the  cheese.  Put  in  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
remaining  cheese  on  top  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Tomato 
juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  milk. — Mrs.  John  Windsor. 


COOK  BOOK  55 


SAVORY  RICE 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice,  fry  3  or  4  slices  of  bacon,  and  1 
large  onion.  Put  all  in  baking  dish,  adding  1  quart  can  of 
tomatoes,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, sprinkle  a  few  bread  crumbs  on  the  top  and  brown  in 
oven.— Mrs.  T.  C.  Borden. 


LUNCHEON  BEANS 

1  pound  round  steak  cut  in  cubes  and  cooked  in  hot  fat 
until  it  changes  color.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Add 
1  can  kidney  beans  and  simmer  on  back  of  stove  for  1  hour. 
Add  hot  water  if  needed. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 


CHEESE  EGGS 

Melt  1  teaspoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heaping 
teaspoon  flour  and  when  well  blended,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoon  grated  cheese.  Stir  well,  re- 
move from  fire  and  pour  into  a  hot  baking  dish,  drop  6  eggs 
into  the  mixture,  put  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  until  the  whites 
are  set.  Remove  from  oven,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  parsley.    Serve  hot. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Pruden. 


BAKED  EGGS 

Break  as  many  eggs  as  desired  to  serve  into  enough  hot 
milk  or  cream  to  almost  cover  them  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  grated  cheese.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  few 
minutes.    Serve  on  toast.-— Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt.' 


56 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK 

1  cup  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs     1  cup  chopped  stuffed  olives 

1  cup  walnut  meats  (broken)       1  cream  cheese 

2  cups  cream  sauce 

Put  cream  cheese  in  sauce,  then  rest  of  ingredients; 
heat  through  and  serve  on  crackers. — Fannie  G.  Francis. 

BAKED  EGGS  WITH  HAM 

Grind  half  a  pound  of  cooked  ham,  mix  well  with  one 
and  one-half  cups  bread  crumbs  and  a  quarter  cup  milk,  and 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  baking  pan  with  this  mixture,  break  the  required  num- 
ber of  eggs  into  the  center,  and  bake  in  oven  until  the  eggs 
are  set. — Mrs.  Kissick. 

INDIAN  CURRY  AND  RICE 

Slice  1  medium  sized  onion  and  brown  in  1  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Add  1  desert  spoon  of  Crosse  &  BlackwelPs  curry 
powder.  Fry  in  this,  about  ten  minutes  1  pound  of  beef, 
lamb,  veal  or  chicken,  cut  in  V2  inch  pieces.  Uncooked  meat 
is  best  but  cooked  meat  may  be  used  if  desired.  Add  2  cups 
of  tomato  and  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Cook  slowly  about 
two  hours.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  %  lemon.  Served 
with  boiled  rice.    To  boil  rice  use  4  quarts  boiling  water  to 

2  cups  rice  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  If  water  gets  starchy 
add  more  boiling  water.  After  it  has  boiled  %  hour  pour 
into  colander,  drain  well  and  set  in  oven  to  steam  5  minutes. 
Tt  should  be  light  and  dry. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Grenell. 

HAM  AND  CHEESE  (Encasserole) 

li/2  pint  boiled  potatoes  %  can  pimento 

%  pound  boiled  ham  '  2  lb.  American  cheese 

1  "small  green  pepper  1  tablespoon  parsley 

Cut  all  the  above  in  small  pieces,  put  in  casserole,  cover 
with  thin  white  sauce  and  put  in  oven  till  well  heated 
through. — Mrs.  W*  L.  Templeton. 


COOK  BOOK  57 


LEMON  CREAM  RICE 
(Serve  Hot  or  Cold) 

1  small  cup  rice  4  eggs 

1  quart  milk      ■  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Cover  rice  with  water  and  boil  in  double  cooker  until 
done.  The  water  must  be  all  cooked  away.  Pour  on  1  quart 
of  milk  and  cook  until  it  looks  creamy.  Mix  well  the  yolks  of 
4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  butter 
(rounded) .  Add  a  little  salt  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 
Add  to  the  creamy  rice.  Turn  into  baking  dish  or  pan.  Take 
four  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Put  in  juice  of  1  lemon.  Place  this  on  top  of  rice  and  set 
in  the  oven  and  brown  top  lightly.  Serves  10. — Mrs.  C. 
McCurdy. 

VENETIAN  EGGS 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  eggs  1  cup  of  (American)  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  in  double  boiler,  butter,  tomatoes,  cheese  and  sea- 
soning. When  dissolved  add  well  beaten  eggs,  cook  until 
thick.    Serve  on  crackers  or  toast. — Mrs.  Russell  E.  Royer. 

UNUSUAL  RICE 

1  cup  rice  i/2  cup  butter 

1V2  cup  chopped  dates  3  bananas 

Wash  rice  and  boil  in  salted  water  till  nearly  done.  Stir 
in  butter  and  dates  thoroughly  in  a  fireproof  dish.  Halve 
the  bananas  and  bury  in  the  mixture.  Steam  half  hour. 
Excellent  served  with  fried  chicken  or  chicken  pie. — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Bourland. 

SPANISH  RICE 

12  slices  of  bacon  1  small  can  tomatoes 

1  onion  1  cup  of  rice  uncooked 

Fry  bacon  and  onion,  add  uncooked  rice,  let  cook  15  min- 
utes, then  add  tomatoes  and  finish  cooking. — Ethel  M.  Hep- 
pes. 


58 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

MACARONI  LOAF 

1  cup  macaroni  boiled.  Measure  before  boiling.  3  eggs, 
one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  one-half  cup  milk,  teaspoon  salt, 
two  chopped  pimentos,  two  tablespoons  parsley  chopped,  1 
cup  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoons  butter  and  a  little  onion. 
Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  until  firm,  about  40  minutes.  Serve  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  One  can  tomatoes  put  through  the  ricer, 
Juice  from  one  can  pimentoes,  two  tablespoons  tomato  cat- 
sup.   Thicken  with  flour. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Eastman. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  CHEESE  AND  GREEN  PEPPER 

1  green  pepper  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  strips  bacon  *4  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  cooked  tomato  %  cup  grated  cheese 

8  ounce  package  spaghetti 

Dice  green  pepper  and  bacon  and  cook  together  until 
bacon  is  nice  and  crisp.  Add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  when 
well  blended  add  the  tomato,  salt  and  paprika.  Then  add 
grated  cheese  and  the  spaghetti  which  has  been  cooked  in 
usual  way.  Let  stand  over  slow  fire  (or  low  oven)  for  about 
10  minutes  so  spaghetti  may  absorb  some  of  the  sauce. — 
Etta  S.  Tyler. 

EGG  NOODLES 

4  tablespoons  of  cold  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  well  beaten  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Mix  above  together  and  beat  well.  Then  add  enough 
flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  and  roll  as  thin  as  possible. 
Cut  in  3  inch  strips  and  lay  them  on  top  of  each  other,  put- 
ting a  little  flour  between  them ;  cut  with  sharp  knife  in 
strips  one-quarter  inch.  Noodles  are  now  ready  to  add  to 
3  quarts  of  boiling  broth  (chicken  preferred),  stir  well  as 
noodles  are  added  and  cook  20  minutes.  Keep  cover  on 
tightly  when  not  stirring.  This  serves  8  people. — Mrs.  F. 
L.  Erion. 


COOK  BOOK  59 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1  box  macaroni  broken  and  boiled  in  salt  water  for  20 
minutes  and  drained.  Place  in  buttered  pan  a  layer  of  ma- 
caroni, grated  cheese,  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
other  layer  of  macaroni,  etc.,  until  pan  is  full.  Beat  one  egg 
together  with  14  spoon  mustard  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Pour 
over  macaroni  and  bake  golden  brown,  about  25  minutes. — 
Mrs.  F.  H.  Kasson. 

BAKED  MACARONI,  BACON  AND  CORN 

2  cups  macaroni  or  spaghetti  14  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  canned  corn  y^  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  salt  1%  cups  white  sauce 

3  slices  bacon 

Cook  macaroni  until  tender,  drain  and  pour  cold  water 
through.  Make  white  sauce  by  adding  1  level  tablespoon 
flour  to  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Add  to  this  l1/^  cups 
milk  and  cook  until  thickened.  Then  add  to  this  sauce  the 
seasoning,  corn  and  cooked  macaroni.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  lay  the  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  squares  over 
the  top.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. — 
Georgia  H.  Duclos. 

MACARONI  SOUFFLE 

Cream  gravy  with  cheese      »    2  egg  yolks 
IV2  tablespoons  butter  T  pint  milk 

l1/^  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  grated  cheese 

Add  to  the  cheese  gravy  after  it  is  cooked,  one  large 
cupful  of  cooked  macaroni,  take  off  stove  and  fold  in  whites 
of  two  eggs.    Serve  hot.  — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Herzog. 

MACARONI  SOUFFLE 

1  cup  macaroni  cooked  till  done      1  cup  cheese  grated 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Little  parsley  and  pimento 

1  cup  cream  or  milk  3  eggs  beaten 

Mix'all  together  and  bake  in  casserole  1  hour.  Put  cas- 
serole in  dish  of  hot  water. — Mrs.  0.  W.  Bartlett. 


60  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


RAREBIT 

14  lb.  American  cheese  cup  up  in  pan;  1  heaping  table- 
spoon flour;  \U  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  saltspoon  salt; 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  beat  1  egg  over  this  and  mix. 
Heat  1  cup  milk  and  pour  over  first  mixture  and  stir  while 
cooking.    Serve  on  crackers  or  toast. — Mrs.  Gustafson. 


CHEESE  FLUFF 

Butter  3  or  4  slices  of  bread  and  place  in  a  baking  dish. 
between  the  slices  put  salt  and  pepper  and  grated  cheese. 
Beat  up  2  eggs  in  a  pint  of  milk ;  pour  over  the  bread.  Grate 
cheese  on  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  J/2  hour. — 
Louise  H.  Armstrong. 


CHEESE  FONDU 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  of  milk  2  cups  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  of  mustard  2  eggs 

A  pinch  of  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  milk,  bread  crumbs  and  cheese  and 
season.  Cook  a  little  in  double  boiler.  Serve  on  toast  or 
crackers. — Margaret  A.  Randall. 


SAVORY  CHEESE 

Beat  1/2  cup  butter  to  a  cream;  beat  into  it  %  lb.  of 
grated  cheese,  6  olives,  1  pimento,  \f*±  onion  (all  ground  fine) , 
1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  minced 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  salt  to  taste.*  Mix, 
press  in  bowl. — Mrs.  Fred  S.  Lodge. 


COOK  BOOK  61 


BREAD 

"Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour, 

And  back  of  the  flour  the  mill, 

And  back  of  the  mill  is  the  wheat  and  the  shower, 

And  the  sun,  and  the  Father's  will." 

POTATO  BUNS 

1  yeast  cake  (dissolved)  Y%  CUP  sugar 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg  white 

1  cup  milk  (scalded  and  cooled)       y*  cup  of  shortening 

1  2  cup  mashed  potatoes,  hot  Let  stand  V2  hour. 

Add  41/2  cups  of  flour 

Mix  well  and  let  rise  2  hours.  Form  into  small  round 
biscuits  and  cut  a  cross  on  top.  Let  rise  until  light  and 
bake.— Tessie  M.  Holton. 


OAT  MEAL  BREAD 

1  pint  oatmeal,  scald  with  1  qt.  boiling  water;  let  cool. 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  tablespoon  lard 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  yeast  cake,  dissolved 

in  1  cup  of  water 

Stir  in  wheat  flour  until  stiff ;  add  a  cup  of  nuts  or  rais- 
ins ;  then  knead  very  little.  Let  rise  until  light;  cut  out  with 
knife  and  put  into  tins.  Let  rise  and  bake  in  slow  oven  1 
hour. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Pruden. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  graham  flour  or  rye  meal         %  cup  molasses 

2  cups  sour  milk 

Steam  2*/£  hours  and  bake  1/2  hour. — Mrs.  Geo.  Stevens. 

BROWN  BREAD 

2  cups  graham  flour  14  CUP  molasses 
1  cup  white  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 
1/2  cup  sugar                           2  cups  sour  milk 

2  level  teaspoons  soda 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  about  45  min- 
utes.— Louise  H.  Armstrong. 


62  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CORN  CAKE  WITH  BACON 

Line  shallow  pan  with  tiny  pieces  of  bacon.    Pour  over 
the  following  batter : 

1  cup  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  egg 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  lard 

Bake  about  25  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  K.  It.  Elwell. 


OLD  SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD 

2  cups  corn  meal  1  egg  (may  be  omitted) 

V/%  cups  thick  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  melted  drippings 

Beat  egg,  add  sour  milk,  sift  in  meal,  add  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  salt  and  drippings.  Beat  well  and  pour 
into  well  greased  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  J. 
Jacobi. 


OAT  MEAL  BREAD 

2  cups  quaker  oats  1  cake  yeast 

1  qt.  boiling  water  %  cup  molasses 

1  tablespoon  lard  1  teaspoon  salt 
2  quarts  flour 

Pour  boiling  water  on  oats,  add  lard  and  salt,  cool  sufti- 
ciently  to  add  yeast,  add  molasses  and  flour,  let  it  rise,  stir 
down,  rise  again,  make  into  loaves,  rise  and  bake  1  hour. — 
Mrs.  Harry  J.  Ilett. 


CORN  BREAD 

IV2  cups  milk  %  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  shortening         4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1%  cups  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

—Mrs.  M.  W.  Heath. 


COOK  BOOK  63 


ORANGE  AND  NUT  BREAD 

5  eups  pastry  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  graham  flour  6  teaspoons  baking-  powder 

1  cup  sugar  (sifted) 

Add  J/2  cup  each  of  chopped  candied  orange  and  chopped 
pecan  nut  meats ;  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  1  egg ;  add  1  cup  of 
milk  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Turn  into  buttered  bread  pan 
and  bake  45  minutes  in  a- moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  0.  Kelso. 


BROWN  BREAD 

1  tablespoon  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  (scant)  soda 

1  tablespoon  butter  V&  teaspoon  baking  powder 
V-2  cup  molasses  1  cup  white  flour 

2  cups  sour  milk  2  cups  graham  flour 

1  pinch  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  molasses,  sour  milk  and 
white  flour  sifted  with  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Stir  in 
graham  flour.  Nuts  and  raisins  may  be  added  if  desired. 
Bake  slowly  in  loaf  tin. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Merriell. 


GRAHAM  BREAD 

2  cups  butter  milk  (or  sour  milk) 
V%  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  raisins  3  cups  graham  flour 

V'l  c^p  nuts  1  teaspoon  soda 

— Mrs.  Durland 


GINGER  BREAD  (Never  Fail) 

1  cup  molasses  2%  cups  flour 

V28  cup  brown  sugar  1  egg 

¥1  cup  sour  milk  i/2  teaspoon  salt 

!/4  cup  lard  i  teaspoon  ginger 

14  cup  butter  2  level  teaspoons  soda 

Heat  molasses,  shortening  and  sugar  to  boiling.  When 
cool  add  well  beaten  egg,  ginger,  salt,  milk,  and  flour.  Beat 
well,  add  soda  dissolved  in  }3  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 


64  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


NUT  BREAD 

Mix  dry : 
4  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoon  salt 

Add: 
2  cups  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

V%  cup  sugar 

Makes  2  loaves.    Let  rise  20  minutes.     Bake  30  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  A.  G.  Morey  or  Mary  H.  Morey. 


OATMEAL  BREAD 

Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  over  2  cups  raw  oatmeal; 
let  stand  until  cool.  Stir  in  1  yeast  cake,  1  cup  karo  syrup 
and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  in  flour  to  make  a  good  dough  and  let 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  make  in  loaves,  put  in 
pans,  let  rise  and  bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  George  M.  Stevens. 


GOLDEN  COI^N  BREAD 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal  (unsifted) 
1  cup  white  flour  V%  teaspoon  salt 

y±  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  milk,  egg  well  beaten 
and  butter;  bake  in  shallow  buttered  pan  in  hot  oven  20 
minutes. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Crook. 


CORN  BREAD  (Extra  Good) 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

V%  CUP  corn  meal  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder        2  tablespoons  shortening 
y±  cup  sugar  y%  teaspoon  salt 

— Mrs.  W.  A.  Cooper. 


COOK  BOOK       i.  65 


GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  Orleans  molasses  1  teaspocpi  soda 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sour  milk  %  teaspoon  allspice 

1  cup  shortening  1/2  teaspoon  ginger 

2  eggs  3  cups  flour 

Mix  as  for  cake.  Pour  into  2  well  greased  sheet  pans. 
Bake  slowly,  very  moist.  V2  the  recipe  makes  1  cake. — Mrs. 
Fred  Browne. 


GINGER  BREAD 

1  tablespoon  ginger  1/2  CUP  sugar 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  i/2  CUP  molasses 

1  egg  1/2  cup  sour  milk 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  1%  cups  flour 

%  cup  butter 
Beat  egg  well,  add  sugar  and  molasses,  add  sour  milk 
to  which  soda  has  been  added,  add  flour  and  spices.    After 
stirring  well  add  melted  butter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
— Mrs.  John  W.  Patterson. 

GINGER  BREAD  (Large) 

1  cup  molasses        V2  CUP  sugar       }£  cup  shortening 
When  boiling  take  from  fire  and  add  1  cup  thick  cream 
(sour) . 

Sift  together  and  add  to  first  mixture  the  following: 
3  cups  flour  1  level  teaspoon  cloves 

1  rounded  teaspoon  ginger  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  rounded  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  soda 

When  well  beaten  add  2  well  beaten  eggs.    Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Thompson. 

GINGER  BREAD 

1  cup  molasses  with  a  little  sugar 
Vt  CUP  lard  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  hot  water  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  soda  14  teaspoon  cloves 

2  cups  flour 
This  makes  a  thin  batter.     Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven 
about  25  minutes.    Makes  a  rich,  soft  cake  which  is  delicious 
served  with  whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. — Myrtle  Judson 
Abrams. 


66  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BROWN  BREAD 

i/2  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  soda 

}£  cup  molasses  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  white  flour  1  egg 

2  cups  graham  flour  ... 

2  cups  of  sour  or  butter  milk 

—Mrs.  M.  W.  Heath. 

BROWN  BREAD 

1  egg  3  cups  graham  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2%  CUPS  thick  sour  milk 

1  cup  flour  2  level  teaspoons  soda 

A  little  salt 

May  add  raisins  if  you  wish.    Bake  about  1  hour  in  2 
loaves. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Hunter. 

BRAN  BREAD 

2  cups  bran  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  white  flour  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved 

i/2  cup  brown  sugar  in  %  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder      2  cups  buttermilk 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 

Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  slowly  1  hour.    This  makes 
2  loaves. — Mrs.  Wm.  Seymour,  Jr. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal 

1  cup  rye  flour,  graham  or  entire  wheat 

1  cup  bran  1  cup  cold  water 

2  cups  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  molasses                          salt 

V2  CUP  raisins 
Steam  3  hours.    Dry  out  15  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mrs. 


Soper. 


BRAN  BREAD 


2  cups  bran  flour  V2  cup  Karo  syrup 

1  cup  wheat  flour  1  teaspoon  soda  in  syrup 

114  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour 

Nuts,  dates  or  raisins  as  desired.    Bake  1  hour. 


COOK  BOOK 


67 


NUT  BREAD 


1  egg 

V'l  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk 


1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


1  cup  chopped  nuts 

— Mrs.  K.  C.  Holman. 

NUT  BREAD 

21/2  cups  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

214  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg  beaten 

V%  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  chopped  pecan  nuts 

Sift  together  3  times  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar 
and  salt.  Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  flour  mixture,  then  nuts. 
Bake  in  buttered  pan  with  slow  oven  40  to  60  minutes.  Be 
sure  to  bake  slowly. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Kasson. 


NUT  BREAD 


2  cups  graham  flour 
2  cups  wheat  flour 
V2  cup  sugar 
2  cups  sweet  milk 

Let  stand  20  minutes. 
E.  A.  Thompson. 


1  egg 

1  cup  nuts  (or  raisins) 

1  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Bake  slowly  45  minutes.— Mrs. 


DATE  NUT  BREAD 


2  cups  graham  flour 
1  cup  white  flour 
1  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk, 
flour. — Mrs.  Glashagel. 


1  cup  chopped  dates 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  sour  milk 
1  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  nuts  in  part  of  the 


68  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 

2  cups  flour 

3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 
3  tablespoons  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  these  together,  add  1  beaten  egg,  1  cup  blueberries, 
3  tablespoons  shortening,  melted. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 


PENNY  MUFFINS 

Dissolve  1  cake  yeast  in  cup  warm  water  and  1/2  tea- 
spoon sugar.  Dissolve  14  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  lard,  1 
level  teaspoon  salt  in  2  cups  boiling  water. 

Let  cool  and  add  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  1%  sifters  of 
flour.  Let  rise  about  314  hours.  Bake  15  minutes.  Pre- 
pare night  before  for  dinner  next  day.    Keep  in  warm  place 

while  rising.     Will  keep  for  week  in  ice  box. — Mrs.  R.  P. 
Moore. 


BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 

Cream  14  cup  butter  with  }£  cup  sugar,  add  1  well  beat- 
en egg,  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powd- 
er into  2%  cups  flour.  Stir  alternately  this  flour,  and  1  cup 
of  milk  into  the  beaten  egg,  butter  and  sugar.  When  well 
mixed,  add  1  cup  of  blueberries  and  14  CUP  °f  flour.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Carpenter. 


COOK  BOOK  69 


POTATO  BISCUIT 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  warm  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  well  beaten  eggs  *4  compressed  yeast  cake 
1  tablespoon  lard 

Flour  to  stiffen  as  bread,  molded  hard 
If  these  biscuits  are  to  be  served  for  dinner  they  should 
be  started  about  11  a.  m.  and  3  or  4  hours  later  rolled  1  inch 
thick,  cut  out,  put  quite  far  apart  in  tins,  and  stand  to  rise 
again.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  W. 
Cullison. 

RUSKS 

1  compressed  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  cup  water 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  1  cup  sugar 
Let  rise  until  4  hours  before  needed,  then  add : 

2  eggs  1/2  cup  butter  or  substitute 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Enough  flour  to  mix  soft  and  roll.    Handle  very  lightly. 
Cut,  place  in  tins,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.     Let 
rise.     Bake  in  quick  oven   15  minutes. — Mrs.   Russell  E. 
Royer. 

HOT  BISCUITS 

2  cups  sifted  flour  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  shortening 
1  cup  milk  (or  V2  rnilk  and  1/2  water) 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Rub  in 
shortening  with  finger  tips.  Add  milk  gradually.  Mix  to 
smooth  dough.  Roll  on  floured  board  to  V2  inch  thickness. 
Cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Handle  as 
little  as  possible.  Makes  12  biscuits. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Tewks- 
bury. 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

3  tablespoons  butter  6  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  pint  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 
V2  cup  mke  warm  water  with  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  into  it 

Scald  milk,  pour  over  sugar,  salt  and  butter,  when  hike 
warm  add  yeast  and  3  cups  flour.  Let  rise  until  frothy,  add 
the  rest  of  the  flour,  let  rise  to  twice  its  bulk,  knead  lightly, 
roll  out  V2  inch  thick,  brush  with  butter  and  fold  over.  Bake 
15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  John  W.  Patterson. 


70 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

25  MINUTE  DOUGH  FORMULA 

2  quarts  flour  1  tablespoon  salt 

2%  cups  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

6  cakes  Fleischman's  yeast 
The  temperature  of  this  dough  should  be  88°  F.  after 
mixing.    It  is  then  allowed  to  rise  20  minutes.    Then  make 
up  into  the  pans  in  the  next  5  minutes.    This  is  allowed  to 
double  and  bake  in  the  usual  way. — Mrs.  Janet  D.  Emery. 

SQUASH  BISCUITS 

V2  CUP  steamed  squash  y%  CUP  scalded  milk 

14  cup  sugar  }£  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

y%  teaspoon  saH  14  CUP  water 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda        14  cup  butter 

2*/£  cups  flour 
Put  squash,  sugar,  salt,  butter  and  milk  on  Are  to  heat. 
When  luke  warm,  add  yeast  and  flour.    Let  rise  over  night. 
Form  into  rolls  and  bake. — Katharine  D.  Deitrich. 

ROLLS 

2  cups  warm  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  butter  1  cake  yeast  foam 

1/2  cup  sugar  1  cup  seeded  raisins  or  nuts 

2  eggs  Flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  warm  milk,  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  batter.  Let  this  rise  until  light.  Beat  sugar 
and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  add  this  to  the 
butter  with  salt,  raisins  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  soft 
dough.  Mold  the  dough  with  hands  into  balls  size  of  a  large 
egg.  Set  these  close  together  in  a  buttered  pan  and  let  rise 
until  fully  twice  their  bulk.  Brush  with  beaten  white  of  egg, 
sprinkle  with  sugar.    Bake  30  minutes. — May  W.  Holman. 

DATE  TEA  BISCUITS 

24  dates  2  tablespoons  sugar 

12  marshmallows  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  flour  *3  to  %  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg  yolk 

!/2  teaspoon  salt  y%  cup  chopped  almonds 

Remove  stones  from  the  dates  and  replace  with  V2  a 
marshmallow.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  to- 
gether. Cut  in  butter  with  a  knife  or  rub  in  with  the  tips  of 
the  fingers.  Add  milk  and  mix.  Roll  out  to  y%  inch  thick- 
ness and  cut  into  rounds.  In  the  center  of  each  round  place 
a  stuffed  date.  Moisten  edges  and  fold  V2  ov^r  the  other. 
Brush  tops  with  beaten  egg  yolk  and  sprinkle  with  nuts. 
Place  in  greased  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 
—Mrs.  P.  L.  Evans. 


COOK  BOOK  71 


BREAD 

3  quarts  flour  2  yeast  cakes 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  lard 

2  cups  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  salt 

Scald  milk  and  water.  Cool  until  luke  warm.  Add  yeast 
and  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Add  %  of  flour  and  lard. 
Add  balance  of  flour  and  salt.  Let  rise  over  night  or  until 
double  in  bulk.  Knead  into  3  loaves  and  let  rise  until  double 
in  bulk.  Bake  for  50  minutes.  Have  oven  very  hot  for  first 
10  minutes,  then  slow  for  40  minutes.  Remove  from  pans 
and  cover  with  a  cloth  until  cool. 

CHEESE  BISCUITS 

3  cups  of  flour  V2  cup  of  lard 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  *4  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  *4>  cup  grated  cheese 

Milk 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  a  bowl.  Work 
into  shortening  with  tips  of  fingers  and  add  enough  milk  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Mix  in  cheese,  stirring  lightly  and  turn 
on  a  magic  cover.  Roll  to  %  inch  thickness  and  cut  with 
small  cutter.  Place  in  a  floured  pan,  brush  with  melted  lard 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  to  12  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  E. 
Crook. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

1  quart  flour  (small)  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  shortening  Nearly  1  pint  of  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  flour 
Cut  or  mix  with  knife.    Pat  flat  on  board  and  cut. — Mrs. 
S  C.Vial. 

CHEESE  STICKS 

1*4  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

1%  teaspoons  baking  powder    4  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

%  cup  milk 
Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  Add 
cheese,  then  milk  slowly,  just  enough  to  hold  dough  togeth- 
er. Roll  out  on  floured  board  about  V2  inch  thick.  Cut  in 
narrow  strips  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Nice  with  salad. — Mar- 
garet E.  Thompson. 


52 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  teaspoon  salt  ) 

1  even  teaspoon  soda  Sifted  together 

1  cup  white  flour  ) 

2  cups  bran 

%  cup  molasses  ') 

1  cup  milk  Beaten  hard 

1  beaten  egg  ) 

Gradually  pour  liquid  mixture  into  dry  ingredients  and 
beat  several  minutes.  Pour  into  buttered  muffin  tins  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Samuel  F.  Nichols. 

DATE  BRAN  MUFFINS 

%  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  molasses 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  Kellogg's  Bran 
1  egg  11/2  cups  white  flour 
1  cup  sour  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  floured  dates,  cut  up 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  egg  lightly  and  add  last- 
ly. Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk.  Bake  in  rather  quick  oven. 
— Mrs.  John  Mavor. 


POTATO  MUFFINS 

3  medium  sized  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  fine;  while 
hot  add  1  large  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  then  1  cup  of  milk  in  which  %  of  a  cake  of 
yeast  has  been  dissolved.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Keep  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  then  mix  in 
enough  flour  to  roll  out,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  let  rise 
again  and  bake. — Margaret  A.  Randall. 

BRAN  BREAD  OR  MUFFINS 

1  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  1  teaspoon  soda 

i/2  cup  sugar  1%  cups  bran 

1  egg  2  cups  sifted  flour 

14  teaspoon  salt,  stir  well  1  cup  raisins  if  desired 

Bake  slowly  50  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Cary. 


COOK  BOOK  73 


TEA  MUFFINS 

1  scant  !,4  cup  sugar  Pinch  salt 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter     1  cup  sweet  milk 
1  well  beaten  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  pint  flour 

Bake  in  hot  oven. — Myrtle  Irene  Powers. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  cup  sour  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  lard  1  level  teaspoon  soda  in 

14  cup  sugar  or  molasses  14  cup  boiling  water 

1  egg  1  cup  bran 

1  cup  flour 

— Mrs.  F.  J.  Lewis. 

POTATO  FLOUR  MUFFINS 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt  2  tablespoons  ice  water 

14  cup  white  potato  flour         1  tablespoon  sugar 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  and  dry,  add  salt  and 
sugar  to  beaten  yolks  and  fold  in  whites.  Sift  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder  twice  and  thoroughly  beat  into  egg  mixture. 
Add  ice  water  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  15  to  20 
minutes. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 

ONE  EGG  MUFFINS 

2  cups  flour  .  2  tablespoons  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  milk 
14  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  egg 

— Mrs.  F.  L.  Innes.  •  ••■■ 


74 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIAEY 

COFFEE  CAKE 

2  cups  of  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

%  cup  of  sugar  (white)  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mixed  thoroughly.  Beat  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  add  to 
above  and  bake  20  minutes,  then  spread  brown  sugar  and 
bits  of  butter  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  return  to 
oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Knies. 


COFFEE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter 
Mix  until  like  crumbs 
%  teaspoon  salt         3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Milk  enough  to  make  rather  a  stiff  batter.  1  egg,  beat- 
en very  light.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  melt- 
ed butter.  Nuts  if  desired.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
H.  Drewes. 


COFFEE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  lard  21/2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

!/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Bake  from  40  to  45  minutes  in  an  even  oven.  Sprinkle 
sugar  and  cinnamon  over  top  before  placing  in  oven. — Mary 
M.  Vial. 


LIGHTNING  COFFEE  CAKE 

Cream  together  %  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  beat 
in  1  eggf  add  1  cup  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  2V2  cup  of  flour.  Pour  in  greased  pan, 
sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top  with  dabs  of  butter  and 
chopped  nuts.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs-.  R.  W.  Classen. 


COOK  BOOK  75 


COFFEE  CAKE 

1  heaping  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 
Butter  size  of  egg                    2  cups  of  flour 

V2  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  teaspoons  baking  powdet 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  1  cup  English  walnuts 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  small  raisins 

Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top,  then  add  cocoanut. 
— Mrs.  Otto  Schultz. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

2  cups  of  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  large  lump  of  butter 

Mix  well.  Take  out  %  cup  of  this  mixture.  Beat  2 
eggs  in  measuring  cup,  fill  with  milk,  add  to  first  mixture 
and  spread  in  well  greased  pan.  Slice  an  apple  and  place  on 
top.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  a  little  butter,  a  little 
sugar  to  V2  cup  of  first  mixture  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  apples. 
Bake  slowly  about  40  minutes. — Mrs.  Gustafson. 

TOASTED  ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter      y%  cake  compressed  yeast 
1  quart  flour  1  egg         2%  CUPS  warm  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Dissolve  yeast  in  *4  cup  of  milk.    Then  add  with  the 

rest  of  milk  to  the  dry  ingredients.    Beat  mixture  well.  Add 

the  beaten  egg  and  melted  butter.    Beat  well  for  about  10 

minutes.    Cover,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 

When  mixture  is  light,  have  ready  a  griddle  on  which 

there  are  well-greased  muffin  rings.    Half  fill  each  ring,  cook 

until  brown  on  one  side,  turn  over  ring  and  muffin  and  brown 

on  the  other  side. 

When  done  slice  in  two  and  toast.  Serve  with  butter  and 

syrup. — Tessie  M.  Holton. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  SANDWICH 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  Worcester  sauce 

1  McLaren's  Nippy  cheese      Mj  teaspoon  paprika 
y%  teaspoon  mustard  Pinch  of  salt 

Bacon 
Mix  and  spread  on  bread,  twist  bacon  strips  across  the 
top.    Toast  slowly  until  brown.    This  makes  4  servings. — 
Lucile  Rife. 


76  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


JELLY  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES 

Chop  English  walnut  meats  very  fine.  Place  in  a  bowl 
and  mix  in  thoroughly  just  enough  red  currant  jelly  to 
moisten  the  nuts.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  white  or 
whole  wheat  bread.  Serve  with  afternoon  tea. — Mrs.  A.  F. 
Grenell. 


SARDINE  SANDWICHES 

Mash  sardines,  add  oil  mayonnaise  dressing  and  salt  to 
taste.    Spread  on  thin  slices  of  toast. — Florella  G.  Hawley. 


SOUTHERN  SANDWICHES 

y±  cup  chopped  pickles  %  cup  peanut  butter 

i/2  can  pimentoes  i/2    15c  cream    (Blue   Ribbon 

cheese 

Mix  with  salad  dressing.    Spread  on  bread  with  lettuce 
leaves  between. — Mrs.  E.  0.  Horn. 


PICKLE  SANDWICHES 

White  bread  buttered  and  sliced  thin.  Fill  with  dill 
pickles  sliced  thin  and  pimentoes  on  top  of  pickles. — Mrs.  E. 
O.  Horn. 


COOK  BOOK  77 


Desserts  and  Ices 

The  Proof  of  the  Pudding  is  in  the  Eating 
Of  all  known  sauces,  Hunger's  the  best 
Doubtless  this  ancient  saw  is  true 
But  give  us  Hunger  and  sauces  too. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

1  lb.  finely  chopped  suet  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  lb.  flour  V2  teaspoon  all  spice 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins  J/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  lb.  currants  *A  teaspoon  ginger 

1  lb.  loaf  bakers'  bread  1%  teaspoons  cloves 

114  lb.  sugar  Juice  y%  lemon  and  V2  orange 

2  neaping   teaspoons   baking  Candied  orange 

powder  Candied  lemon 

1  teaspoon  salt  *  Candied  citron 

6  eggs 

Soak  the  bread,  drain  as  dry  as  possible,  add  well  beat- 
en eggs,  sugar  and  flour.  Beat  well,  then  add  fruit  and  spices. 
This  may  be  boiled  or  steamed.  If  to  be  steamed,  put  into  2 
buttered  milk  crocks  and  steam  over  boiling  water  6  hours. 
If  boiled,  take  a  square  piece  of  cotton  cloth,  dip  it  in  scald- 
ing hot  water,  flour  it  well  and  lay  it  over  a  pan.  Place  the 
pudding  in  the  cloth  and  tie  it  closely.  Put  it  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  for  5  hours.  Have  boiling  water  ready  to  fill 
the  pot  as  it  boils  away,  so  as  not  to  allow  it  to  get  below 
boiling  heat.  Serve  with  hot  pudding  sauce. — Mrs.  J  E. 
Bratt. 

AMERICAN  PLUM  PUDDING 

1  cup  suet  shredded  and  chopped  fine  in  flour 
%  cup  New  Orleans  Molasses  and  sugar 
1  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  currants  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  eggs 
Make  a  little  more  stiff  than  cake  batter,  steam  3  hours. 

SAUCE  FOR  PUDDING 

1  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

V2  CUP  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

l"egg  beaten  light  V%  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  flour 
Boil  together.— Mrs.  J.  E.  Hulbish. 


78 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PUDDING 

1  egg  1  cup  flour 

%  cup  sugar  V/%  squares  melted  chocolate 

V2  cup  mfik  -  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter    %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggf  add  sugar,  melted  chocolate,  milk,  flour  sifted 
with  the  baking  powder,  and  flavor.  Steam  2  hours  or  bake 
about  1  hour  in  not  too  hot  an  oven.  Serve  with  any  liquid 
pudding  sauce. — Georgia  H.  Duclos. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

$4  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

V2  cup  rnilk  114  squares  melted  chocolate 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Steam  2  hours.     Serve  with  a  hard  sauce  or  with 
whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. — Mrs. 
W.  R.  Ruegnitz. 

FIG  PUDDING 

1  cup  butter  1  lb.  figs  chopped 

2  cups  sugar  */£  cup  milk 

3  eggs  y%  teaspoon  nutmeg 
3  cups  fresh  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  pinch  of  salt 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,   add  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
then  add  bread  crumbs  and  other  ingredients.     Mix  well, 
turn  into  buttered  double  boiler  and  steam  three  hours. 

SAUCE 

*4  cup  butter  V2  cup  powdered  sugar 

14  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring 

Beat  butter  with  a  silver  fork,  add  sugar  gradually. 
Beat,  beat  beat.  Add  four  tablespoons  cream,  a  little  at  a 
time.  Sprinkle  nutmeg  over  top  in  serving  dish.  This  will 
serve  12  persons. — Mrs.  P.  L.  Evans. 

SUET  PUDDING 

1  cup  suet  chopped  fine      1  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  cream-tarter 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

Flour  to  thicken 

Put  in  greased  tin  and  steam  3  hours  or  longer.  Serve 
hot  with  hard  sauce  to  which  whipped  cream  is  added. — Mrs. 
James  Kidston. 


COOK  BOOK  79 


MERINGUE 

Whites  of  4  eggs  and  beat  as  stiff  as  you  can,  then  beat 
into  them  very  gradually  IV2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  put 
into  lightly  greased  gem  tins.  Have  your  oven  just  as  hot 
as  it  will  stand  when  you  put  them  in,  then  turn  gas  as  low 
as  you  can  and  bake  %  of  an  hour  without  opening  the  door. 
Take  out  the  top  and  fill  with  peach,  strawberry  or  any  fruit 
you  choose  and  put  cover  on  and  a  spoon  of  whipped  cream. 
Sprinkle  with  pecan  nuts.  Makes  12  or  14  meringues. — 
Mrs.  Harry  M.  Dietrich. 

BLUEBERRY  PUDDING 

14  cup  sugar  1*4  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  */2  cup  milk 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Whites  2  small  eggs 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  beat  eggs  to  stiff  froth, 
mix  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  add  milk  to  sugar  and 
butter,  then  stir  in  flour,  add  eggs  and  last  1  quart  of  blue- 
berries. Bake  %  of  an  hour  slowly.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve 
with  sauce  of  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
flour  and  butter,  vanilla  to  taste  and  enough  boiling  water 
to  thicken  to  consistency  of  thin  starch.  Add  pinch  of  salt. 
— Mrs.  F.  H.  Kasson. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

35,  marshmallows 

1  tablespoon  gelatine,  Knox 

1  cup  XX  cream,  whipped  soft 

1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 

Whites  of  2  large  eggs 

1  small  bottle  of  maraschino  cherries 
Whip  cream,  add  beaten  whites,  add  sugar,  cherry  juice, 
a  few  cherries  chopped,  marshmallows,  each  cut  in  4  pieces ; 
then  add  gelatine.  Put  in  mold.  Can  be  made  the  day  be- 
fore. Turn  out  on  platter  and  use  XX  cream  around  it  and 
garnish  with  the  whole  cherries. — Mrs.  0.  F.  Schultz. 

TAPIOCA  DATE-NUT  PUDDING 

Soak  %  cup  tapioca  in  3  cups  of  water  overnight,  then 
add: 

1  cup  milk  y±  cup  of  nuts 

1  cup  stoned  dates  1  cup  sugar 

Steam  l1/^  hours;  then  add: 

Butter  size  of  egg         1  teaspoon  vanilla 

—Carrie  C.  Orange  (Mrs.  C.  C.) 


80  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


MACAROON  PUDDING 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  egg 

1  heaping  tablespoon  com  starch 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler  and  add  other  in- 
gredients, stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire 
and  stir  in  1  cup  crumbled  macaroons.  Serves  6. — Mrs.  Max 
Eggert. 


DELICIOUS  BREAD  PUDDING 

1  pint  milk        V2  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  2  slices  buttered  dry  bread 

Almond  and  vanilla  flavoring 

Separate  eggs,  beat  egg  yolks  and  sugar  until  light,  add 
milk  and  few  drops  flavoring.  Pour  over  bread  and  bake  in 
dish  set  in  pan  of  water.  Just  as  custard  is  getting  firm  add 
the  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened,  for  a  meringue. 
— Mrs.  Leonard  Horr. 


BAKED  CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

2  eggs  2  cups  milk 

V'l  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

14  teaspoon  salt 

Put  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar  in  bottom  of  each  baking 
glass.  Mix  above  ingredients  and  pour  into  glasses  (6). 
Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven. — Dorothy  Mavor. 


BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING 

2  slices  of  bread  well  buttered.  Cut  in  small  pieces. 
Make  a  custard  >)f: 

3  eggs  Little  salt 

1  quart  milk  1  cup  sugar 

Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Pour  over  bread  and  bake  slowly 
like  custard. — Laura  V.  Nickless. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  egg,  V-i  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  slow  oven  in  a  loaf  pan  lined  with 
greased  paper. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Montgomery. 


COOK  BOOK  81 


BROWN  BETTY 

6  baking  apples  1/4,  cup  sugar 

1  cup  bread  crumbs       %  teaspoon  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 

*/4  CUP  butter  Juice  of  14  lemon 

Cover  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish  with  apples, 
sliced ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  spice,  and  dot 
with  butter.  Repeat  until  dish  is  full.  Add  lemon  juice  last. 
Bake  about  40  minutes.  Serve  with  cream. — M.  E.  Thomp- 
son. 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING 

,    1  pint  strained  persimmons 

1  cup  chopped  suet        4  eggs  beaten  light 

2  cups  sweet  milk  3  small  cups  sugar 

Flour  enough  to  make  the  consistency  of  pancake  bat- 
ter (a  thin  batter) .  Pour  in  bread  pan  and  bake  1  hour  in 
slow  oven.    Requires  no  sauce. — Carrie  C.  Orange. 


HOT  WATER  RAISIN  CAKES 

iy%  cups  raisins,  cover  with  water,  simmer  20  minutes. 
Butter  size  of  egg  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  hot  rasin  water 

2  level  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water 
l*/2  cups  flour  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  J/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Add  raisins.  Bake  in  gem  pans  in  moderate  oven. 
Steam  before  serving.  Serve  with  hard  sauce,  ^chopped  wal- 
nuts and  desert  cherries  or  caramel  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  Drewes. 


CARAMEL  SAUCE 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar       Heaping  tablespoon  flour 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly;  add  enough  milk  to 
make  a  paste;  then  add  3  cups  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Butter  size  of  egg  (or  more  if  de- 
sired).   Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Edmonds. 


82  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CREAMY  RICE  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
3  tablespoons  rice  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  seedless  raisins 

Wash  rice  thoroughly  and  soak  in  milk  for  1  hour  or 
longer  Bake  for  about  IV2  hours  in  rather  slow  oven,  stirr- 
ing often  at  first. — Georgia  H.  Duclos. 

CHOCOLATE  DESERT 

1  square  of  bitter  chocolate,  melt  in  double  boiler  and  add : 

2  tablespoons  sugar       2  tablespoons  whipping  cream 

Cook  until  smooth.  Add  to  the  rest  of  a  half  pint  of 
whipping  cream  and  cool.  Beat  stiff  and  serve  on  sponge 
cake. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Hawkins. 

PINEAPPLE  LOAF 

^3  box  gelatine,  Knox  or  Keystone        1  cup  sugar 
1  cup  cold  water,  or  pineapple  juice       Juice  of  1  lemon 
1  can  (large  size)  pineapple  1  pint  whipped  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  the  cup  of  cold  water  or  juice,  when 
dissolved,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  pineapple  chopped  fine. 
When  begins  to  harden,  whip  in  whipped  cream.  Cut  in 
slices  1  inch  thick  or  in  squares. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Kasson. 

CHOCOLATE  ROULADE 

Separate  five  eggs.  To  the  yolks  add  14  cup  of  sugar. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  light  and  fluffy,  (and  2  tablespoons 
cocoa) ,  then  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  rather  slowly  in 
a  thin  sheet.  When  cold,  spread  with  flavored  whipped 
cream  and  roll,  like  a  jelly  roll.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  serve  with  more  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Kissick. 

DATE  PUDDING 

(Good  for  several  weeks  after  making) 

1  cup  nuts,  broken  up        1  cup  flour 
1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  dates,  cut  up  3  eggs,  well  beaten 

Bake  in  cup-cake  tins.  This  makes  1  dozen.  Bake  20 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  can  be  used  the  same 
day  or  2  or  3  weeks  later.  Steam  them  well  before  serving 
with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Hacker. 


COOK  BOOK  83 


DATE  PUDDING 

1  cup  chopped  dates  */2  cup  sugar 

V%  cup  nut  meats  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  2  tablespoons  flour 

Method :  Add  yolks  to  dates  and  nuts.  Mix  sugar  and 
baking  powder.  Add  to  first  mixture.  Then  add  flour.  Last- 
ly fold  in  egg  whites.  Bake  about  1  hour,  as  you  would  a 
meringue,  in  a  very  slow  oven.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
— Myrtle  Tudor  Abrams. 


DATE  PUDDING 

10  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Mix  together 

2  cups  sugar  (scant)  2  lbs.  dates,  cut  fine 

1  lb.  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine 

6  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten,  added  the  last  thing.  Bake 
%  hour  in  shallow  pan.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  This 
will  serve  14  persons. — Mrs.  John  W.  Matthews. 


SOFT  DATE  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  bread  crumbs     1  cup  dates,  cut  up 

1  egg 

A  little  milk  to  moisten.    Bake  25  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. — Mrs.  Russell  Howard. 


CARAMEL  PUDDING 

V%  cup  sugar  y%  cup  flour 

Mix  gradually  with  2 14  cups  of  milk.  Brown  1/2  cup  of 
sugar  and  add  to  the  above  mixture.  When  cool  add  1  cup  of 
chopped  nut  meats.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Edna 
M.  Dull. 


84  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


DATE  CAKE  DESSERT 

2  eggs  114  cups  flour 
V2  CUP  milk  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  level  cup  brown  sugar  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

^3  cup  butter  2  cups  dates 

3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder    Whipped  cream 

Nuts  may  be  added  if  desired.  Put  eggs  into  basin, 
beat,  add  milk,  sugar,  butter  melted,  chocolate,  flour  and 
baking  powder  sifted  together  and  dates.  Beat  well  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  about  35  minutes.  Turn  out  and  cut 
in  squares  and  serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream.  Suf- 
ficient for  8  squares. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 

%  cup  tapioca       4  cups  water       %  teaspoon  salt 

Put  in  double  boiler  or  sauce  pan  and  cook  until  trans- 
parent.   Then  add  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  maraschino  cherry  or  1  teaspoon  of  grape  or  currant  jelly 
on  each  dish  served  improves  the  taste.  Serve  with  cream. 
—Mrs.  E.  0.  Horn. 

CHOCOLATE  DESSERT 

1  square  of  bitter  chocolate,  melt  in  double  boiler  with 

2  tablespoons  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  whipping  cream. 
Cook  until  smooth.  Add  to  whipping  cream  and  cool.  Beat 
stiff  and  serve  on  sponge  cake. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Browne. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  V2  cup  milk 

%  cup  butter  l1/^  cups  bread  flour 

2  egg  yolks  2  cups  raw  cranberries 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  like  cake,  adding  berries  last.  Steam  in  ramekins  1 
hour.    Serve  hot  with : 

SAUCE 

1  cup  sugar  mixed  with  1  large  tablespoon  flour,  pinch 
of  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Cook 
until  thick.  Partially  cool  and  before  serving  stir  in  the 
lightly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Flavor  with  sherry  or  any 
preferred  flavoring. — Mrs.  Robt.  Frey. 


COOK  BOOK  85 


CHERRY  PUDDING 

1  quart  red  cherries  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Heat  cherries,  and  add  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  of 
the  cold  juice  of  the  cherries.  Cook  until  thoroughly  heat- 
ed, turn  into  wet  mold  and  set  aside  to  harden  and  chill. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream.  This  should  be 
made  4  or  5  hours  before  using. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Grenell. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING 

1  pint  of  cranberries        1  pint  of  flour 
Y2  teaspoon  of  salt       •    2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  cup  of  milk 
Mix  and  steam  1  hour. 

SAUCE  FOR  SAME 
1  cup  sugar  114  tablespoons  butter 

2  eggs 
Beat  all  together  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling  milk.    Cook 
until  it  thickens  slightly. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Moore. 

LEMON  PUDDING 

PARTI 
1  large  lemon  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  water 

PART  II 
V2  CUP  °f  sugar  14  cup  of  milk 

1  tablespoon  of  butter        V2  cup  of  flour 
1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Slice  lemon  very  thin,  add  to  rest  of  Part  1  and  cook  un- 
til lemon  is  done  Cream  butter  and  sugar  of  Part  2,  add  egg 
and  then  alternately  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  Put  this  batter  in  buttered  baking  dish,  pour  into 
it  the  boiling  syrup.  Bake  30  minutes. — E.  B.  H.  Thompson 
(Mrs.  E.  A.  T.) 

APPLE  PUDDING 

Have  -a  baking  dish  well  greased ;  fill  %  full  with  apples, 
sliced ;  sprinkle  with  sugar  as  needed,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg ; 
add  a  little  water. 

BATTER 
V2  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  egg  y%  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  butter        %  cup  flour 
%  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Mix  thoroughly,  pour  over  apples,    bake    slowly    until 
apples  are  done.    Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  F.  J.  Lewis. 


86  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


GRAPE  NUT  PUDDING 

IV2  pints  milk  1  cup  raisins 

2  cups  grapenuts        2  eggs 
1  cup  sugar 

Heat  milk  before  adding  grapenuts.  Add  beaten  eggs, 
sugar  and  raisins.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  nutmeg  and  bake 
in  oven  as  you  would  a  custard.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  B.  I.  Greenlee. 


BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING 

5  apples,  diced  x/%  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar  1*4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  raisins  2  eggs 

Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  as  for  cake.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  slowly  for  1  hour.  Serve  with  sour  sauce  while  hot. — 
Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


SOUR  SAUCE  (For  Puddings) 

1  cup  brown  sugar    1  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour      1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  cup  boiling  water 

Method:  Mix  flour  and  brown  sugar  well.  Add  vine- 
gar, butter  and  hot  water.  Boil  up  for  a  couple  of  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.    Serve  while  hot. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


RAISIN  PUFF  PUDDING 

2  slightly  rounded  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  cups  flour  2  cups  chopped  raisins 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  of  cold  water 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs 

SAUCE 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  butter 

%  cup  tart  eating  apples,  grated ;  add  white  of  1  egg.  A 
little  pineapple  juice  improves  it  if  desired. — Mrs.  Harry  W. 
Dietrich. 


COOK  BOOK  87 


STEAMED  CHERRY  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  V2  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

V2  cup  canned  cherries 
Steam  in  cups  1  hour  or  more. 

SAUCE 
1  cup  sugar  14  cup  butter  1  egg 

Cream  above.    Add  1/2  cup  boiling  water,  3  tablespoons 
cherry  juice.    Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. — Mrs.  P.  L.  Evans. 

CARROT  PUDDING 

1  cup  suet  1  cup  grated  carrot 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  grated  potato 
1  cup  raisins  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  currants  1  teaspoon  soda 

Spice  to  suit  the  taste 
Steam  2  hours.     Will  keep  for  weeks.     When  wanted 
slice  off  and  steam.     Serve  with  any  pudding  sauce  or 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Templeton. 

BAKED  PINEAPPLE  AND  RICE  (6  Portions) 

1  cup  rice  %  cup  brown  sugar 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  3  tablespoons  butter 
Wash  the  rice  and  cook  in  plenty  of  salted  water  until 
tender;  drain  and  pour  cold  water  through  it.  Into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  rice,  over  this  a  layer  of 
pineapple  cut  in  pieces ;  on  this  sprinkle  }£  of  the  sugar  and 
1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Repeat  twice,  using  all  the  ingred- 
ients. Pour  in  %  cup  of  the  pineapple  sirup.  Bake  in  an 
oven  registering  350°  F.  for  2  hours,  covering  the  baking 
dish  the  first  half  of  the  time  only.  This  is  delicious  served 
with  ham  in  any  style  or  fried  chicken.  If  any  is  left  over  I 
use  it  for  desert  the  next  day  by  adding  more  sugar  and  re- 
heating in  oven.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. — Etta 
S.  Tyler. 

STEAM  PUDDING 

y±  scant  cup  of  butter  or  part  lard  (melted 
1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk  1  cup  white  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  sour  milk 

raisins,  currants  and  flavoring 
Steam  in  cake  pan  1  hour  and  dry  in  the  oven. — Mi*s. 
Gough. 


88  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


PUDDING  SAUCE 

1  whole  egg  14  pint  whipping  cream 

V2  CUP  powdered  sugar     Pinch  of  salt 
Flavor  with  vanilla 

Beat  egg  light,  add  sugar,  beat  again.  Then  add  cream 
whipped  stiff  and  flavor.  Serve  with  steamed  pudding. — 
Mrs.  Albert  Metzel. 


SAINT  JAMES  PUDDING 

2  eggs  1/2  teaspoon  cloves 

V2  cup  molasses  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/2  scant  cup  butter  14  cup  sour  milk 

14  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  same  thickness  as  ginger  bread  (about  1  cup  of 
flour).  Steam  V/%  Hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. — Althea 
L.  Godso. 


STEAMED  MOLASSES  PUDDING 

1  cup  Orleans  molasses        1  egg 

l!/2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1/2  cup  hot  water  1  teaspoon  soda 

Pinch  of  salt 

Method:  Beat  egg,  add  molasses,  salt  and  melted-but- 
ter.  Then  the  soda  and  hot  water  dissolved.  Then  the  flour. 
Steam  in  buttered  pan  for  1  hour.  Serves  ten. — Mrs.  H.  J. 
Jacobi. 


SAUCE  (For  Molasses  Pudding) 

1/2  pint  whipping  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  %  cup  sugar 

Method:  Whip  cream,  add  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then 
beaten  white,  then  vanilla  and  gradually  the  sugar.  Beat 
well.— Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi, 


COOK  BOOK  89 


STEAMED  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  raisins  and  nut  meats 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  soda 

2  cups  graham  flour  Steam  3  hours 

SAUCE 

1/4  cup  butter        i/2  cup  sugar         1  egg,  beaten 
Cook  in  double  boiler.    When  cool  add  1  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla. — Grace  W.  Kellogg. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

Tapioca  %  cup,  soaked  in  water  to  cover,  over  night. 
Cook  in  morning  until  clear;  add  l*/?  cups  sugar,  juice  of  2 
lemons,  2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  cool.  Add  any  kind  of 
fruit. — Ethel  M.  Heppes. 

CHOCOLATE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

%  cup  tapioca  4  cups  water 

li/o  squares  bitter  chocolate  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  in  double  boiler  or  sauce  pan  until  done  or  until 
tapioca  is  transparent.  Add  IV2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  van- 
illa.   Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  E.  0.  Horn. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING  (For  12) 

3  cups  rapidly  boiling  water.  Yi  CUP  minute  tapioca, 
boil  until  clear.  Add  V/%  cups  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Cool. 
Add  1  small  can  grated  pineapple,  2  tablespoons  shredded 
cocoanut,  juice  of  V%  lemon.  Serve  cold  with  or  without 
cream,  or  with  whipped  cream,  topped  with  maraschino 
cherry. — Mrs.  F.  J.  Lewis. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA 

%  cup  minute  tapioca  1  teaspoon  gelatine 

3  cups  cold  water  %  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  1  orange  1%  cups  pineapple  juice 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  cup  shredded  or  finely  cut 

pineapple 

Soak  gelatine  in  3  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Cook 
tapioca  in  cold  water  until  clear.  Add  the  softened  gelatine 
and  sugar.  When  slightly  cooled,  add  the  fruit  juices  and 
when  beginning  to  thicken  add  pineapple.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  H.  Drewes. 


90 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

Place  in  baking  dish  layers  of  sliced  oranges,  sugar, 
grated  cocoanut  and  custard.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made 
with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiffly  beaten  with  2  tablespoons 
of  sugar.  Place  in  hot  oven  until  the  meringue  is  brown. — 
Bonnie  G.  Craig. 


HAMBURG  CREAM 

5  eggs  Little  grated  lemon  rind 

Juice  of  2  lemons  */2  lb.  sifted  sugar 

Beat  yolks  with  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind.  Put  in 
double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then  stir  in  quick- 
ly and  well  the  stiffly  whipped  egg  whites.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  J.  C.  MacMillan. 


APPLE  CRISP 

8  apples  sliced,  about  1  qt.  1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  %  cup  flour 

y%  cup  water  7  tablespoons  butter 

Butter  a  fire  proof  dish  and  fill  with  the  apples,  water 
and  cinnamon  mixed.  Work  together  the  remainder  of  the 
ingredients  with  the  finger  tips  until  crumbly,  spread  over 
the  apple  mixture  and  bake  uncovered  for  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream,  lemon  sauce  or  maple  sirup. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Pruden. 


PINEAPPLE  DELIGHT 

Strain  the  sirup  from  1  large  can  of  sliced  pineapple  and 
add  to  it  V2  CUP  of  sugar  and  V2  CUP  of  water.  Shred  the 
pineapple  and  put  in  large  glass  bowl;  add  14  pound  of 
marshmallows  cut  in  quarters;  add  the  sirup,  stir  and  let 
stand  over  night.    Very  good. — Minnie  Wilmore. 


COOK  BOOK  91 


PINEAPPLE  BAVARIAN  CREAM 
(Enough  to  serve  14  to  16  People) 

1  cup  shredded  pineapple  V2  CUP  water 

2  cups  sugar  1  or  2  boxes  candied  cherriei 
IV2  envelopes  Knox  gelatine       1  cup  nuts  (walnuts)  cut  up 

IV2  pints  of  whipping  cream 

Cook  the  pineapple  with  1  cup  of  sugar  for  10  minutes. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  V2  cup  of  cold  water  for  about  5  minutes 
and  then  add  a  little  hot  water  to  dissolve  it.  Put  the  gela- 
tine into  the  pineapple  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Let  this 
stand  until  cool.  Add  cherries  cut  in  halves  and  chopped 
nuts.  Whip  the  cream  and  beat  in.  Put  into  sherbet  glass- 
es. A  candied  cherry  on  top  gives  a  pretty  effect. — Mrs.  C. 
McCurdy. 


BAVARIAN  CREAM 

Mix  4  egg  yolks  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  salt  spoon  salt; 
add  2  cups  of  milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Do  not  boil.  Dis- 
solve 1  envelope  of  Knox  gelatine  in  y%  cup  of  cold  milk ;  pour 
hot  custard  over  and  let  cool.  Beat  4  egg  whites.  Beat  V2 
pint  of  whipping  cream;  add  to  first  mixture  IV2  teaspoons 
of  vanilla.  Put  in  cold  place.  Serves  10  to  12  people.  Can 
be  served  with  whipped  cream,  fruits  or  any  fruit  juice. — 
Mrs.  Gustafson. 


APPLE  PUDDING 

Slice  apples  in  baking  dish,  add  a  little  butter,  sugar, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice,  (as  for  pie).  Make  mix- 
ture of  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  V2  cup  of  butter, 
mixed  with  fingers  and  put  over  the  top  of  apples.  Bake  1 
hour. 

SAUCE 

1  cup  sugar  }£  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  flour     1  egg 

Thoroughly  beat  together.  About  10  minutes  before 
serving  add  V2  cup  boiling  water.  Let  cook  up.  Vanilla. — 
Louise  M.  Irwin. 


92  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIAKY 


SNOW  PUDDING 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water 
1  cup  of  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  pint  of  milk  Flavoring 

Cook  until  thick.     Remove  from  fire  and  add  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs. 

SAUCE 

1  pint  of  milk  2  egg  yolks 

1  cup  of  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Cook  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  Gaylord. 


BAKED  APPLE  DESSERT 

Select  large  cooking  apples.  Remove  from  stem  end  the 
core  without  cutting  through  the  apple.  Pare  around  stem 
end  }6  of  surface.  Fill  core  space  with  sugar,  bit  of  butter 
or  salt  and  cinnamon.  For  each  large  apple,  put  in  baking 
pan  1  teaspoon  minute  tapioca.  Leave  space  between  apples. 
Put  water  in  pan  to  depth  of  about  1  inch.  Bake  slowly.  To 
glaze  apples  dip  the  pan  mixture  over  apples  after  tapioca 
has  cooked.  Add  sugar  to  taste  before  cooling  or  serve  with 
sweetened  cream. — Mrs.  William  Noble  Rockwell. 


BUTTERSCOTCH  SPANISH  CREAM 

%  cup  brown  sugar      3  eggs 
2  tablespoons  butter     Few  grains  salt 
2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

ly*  tablespoons  gelatine  soaked  in  2  tablespoons  water 

Put  butter  and  sugar  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  begins  to  boil,  then  stir  and  boil  1  minute,  be- 
ing careful  that  it  does  not  burn.  Sugar  should  be  slightly 
caramellized.  Add  milk  and  place  over  hot  water.  Mix  egg 
yolks  and  salt,  using  fork  or  spoon.  When  sugar  is  dis- 
solved in  milk  add  slowly  to  eggs.  Return  to  double  boiler 
and  stir  and  cook  until  mixture  forms  a  thin  coating  on 
spoon.  To  this  custard,  add  gelatine  soaked  in  water.  Strain 
into  a  pan,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Stir  occassionally,  and 
when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  beat  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Beat  3  egg  whites  stiff,  add  14  CUP  brown  sugar  and  add  to 
first  mixture.  Mix  well  and  turn  into  a  mold  rinsed  with 
cold  water.  Garnish  with  strips  of  sponge  cake  and  whipped 
cream. — Helen  B.  Lanterman  (Mrs.  W.  W.) 


COOK  BOOK  93 


MAPLE  BLANC  MANGE 
(To  serve  3  or  4  people) 

1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  (a  heaped  spoon- 
ful for  a  stiff  mixture).  i%  cup  of  thick  maple  syrup.  Add 
the  syrup  gradually  while  mixture  is  hot  and  beat  until 
smooth.    Cool  in  molds.    Serve  with  cream  and  jelly. 

Or 

Use  less  cornstarch,  pour  product  into,  sherbet  glasses 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Do  not  sweeten  the  cream. 
—Mrs.  W.  N.  Rockwell. 


ALMOND  SPONGE 

Put  V2  lb.  of  blanched  and  chopped  almonds  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  cover  with  sugar  and  place  in  hot  oven.  Let  brown 
and  crystalize.  Mix  with  1  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  and  serve 
in  the  middle  and  on  top  of  a  split  sponge  cake.  Decorate 
the  top  with  candied  cherries. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Moore. 


TORTE 

%  cup  of  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1/2  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  flour 

4  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  tablespoons  of  milk 

Mix  well  and  spread  in  well  greased  pan.  Beat  4  egg 
whites  and  fold  in  14  cup  of  sugar.  Arrange  on  top  of  first 
mixture  in  pan  and  sprinkle  with  almonds  cut  up  real  fine. 
Bake  slowly  in  moderate  oven  about  40  minutes. — Mrs.  Gust- 
afson. 


CHERRY  TORTE 

V-i  cup  of  butter         2  egg  yolks 
V'l  cup  of  lard  2   tablespoons   sugar 

2  large  cups  flour 

Line  a  spring  form  with  the  above  mixture  and  fill  with 
preserved  fruit.  Take  1  cup  of  juice  with  1  tablespoon  corn- 
starch and  pour  into  form.  Beat  to  a  foam  6  egg  yolks,  14 
lb.  almonds,  14  lb.  sugar.  Then  beat  egg  whites  stiff  and 
mix  with  sugar,  nuts  and  yolks.  Put  over  fruit  mixture  in 
form  and  bake  at  least  1  hour  or  more  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs. 
D.  M.  Workman. 


94  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BLITZ  TORTE 

V2  cup  butter  (4  oz.)  4  tablespoons  milk 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  4  ounces  of  flour 

Bake  in  2  layers  and  use : 

FILLING 

1  cup  milk  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch       Vanilla 

Boil  until  thick  and  put  between  layers.  Beat  egg 
whites  stiff,  spread  over  top,  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and 
brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Langwill. 


CREAM  PUFFS 

Boil  together  1  cup  of  water  and  V2  CUP  of  butter,  stir 
in  1  cup  of  flour,  cook  until  thick  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Stir 
in  three  unbeaten  eggs.  Beat  well,  drop  into  buttered  gem 
pan  and  bake.  Have  oven  hot  and  lower  flame  when  you  put 
them  in.  Bake  slowly  from  20  to  25  minutes.  Fill  with 
whipped  cream. — Aileen  S.  Clarke. 


MARSHMALLOW  PUFF 

Vfc  Pmt  whipped  cream  V2  cup  walnut  meats 

V2  lb.  marshmallows,  diced  14  cup  maraschino  cherries 

Vanilla 

Let  stand  in  ice  box  3  or  4  hours  after  all  mixed  to- 
gether.   Serve  with  lady  finders  or  macaroons. — Mrs.  Gough. 


AMBROSIA 

6  bananas,  3  oranges,  1  small  pineapple  (or  canned), 
all  peeled  and  sliced  thin ;  1  small  package  of  shredded  cocoa- 
nut,  1  generous  cupful  of  sugar. 

Arrange  in  a  deep  dish  in  layers,  bananas,  oranges, 
sugar,  cocoanut,  pineapple  until  all  are  used  up,  with  the 
pineapple  for  a  top  finish.  Keep  in  the  ice  box  until  you  are 
ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  Downs. 


COOK  BOOK  95 


FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

6  tablespoon  water  IV2  cups  flour 

Method:  Beat  eggs  well;  add  sugar  and  vanilla;  add 
water  and  flour  with  baking  powder,  alternately.  Bake  in 
2  pie  tins,  greased,  in  moderate  oven.  Split  while  warm  and 
fill  with  custard  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


CUSTARD  SAUCE  (For  French  Cream  Cake) 

1/2  pint  milk  %  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch       1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

Method:  Scald  milk;  add  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  1/2 
cup  of  milk.  After  this  has  boiled,  add  butter,  sugar  and 
egg  beaten  together,  and  vanilla.  Put  between  cakes  while 
warm. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


DELMONICA  DESSERT 

4  tablespoons  butter  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  of  sugar  2  tablespoons  very  strong  coffee 

2  eggs  16  lady  fingers 

V2  cup  almonds,  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Stir  in  unbeaten  eggs  (one 
at  a  time) ;  add  almonds,  coffee  and  vanilla.  Place  a  layer  of 
halved  lady  fingers  in  a  mold  and  pour  over  a  part  of  mix- 
ture. Add  another  layer  of  lady  fingers  laying  in  opposite 
direction,  then  more  of  mixture.  Repeat  until  mold  is  filled. 
Turn  out  of  mold  and  cut  in  slices ;  serve  with  sweetened  and 
flavored  whipped  cream.  This  should  be  made  the  day  be- 
fore using  and  kept  in  the  ice  box. — Myrtle  Irene  Powers. 


COBBLER  (Cherry  or  Any  Fruit) 

l1/^  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  crisco 

IV2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1/2  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  \y%  cups  sugar 

1  quart  cherries  (or  other  fruit) 

Use  a  cup  in  the  center  of  pan  you  cook  it  in. — Mrs.  M. 
W.  Heath. 


96  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


PEACH  SHORT  CAKE 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  milk 

1  egg  2  cups  flour 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cut  peaches,  put  in  between  layers  and  on  top.    Served 
with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Browne. 


SPANISH  CREAM 

8  tablespoons  sugar  V2  box  Knox  gelatine 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

1  quart  of  milk 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk.  Put  on  fire  in  double  boiler  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  Stir  until  it  comes  to  boiling  point.  Remove  from 
stove.  Have  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiffly  with  4  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  add  to  mixture,  stirring  briskly  until  thorough- 
ly mixed.  Flavor  and  turn  into  mold.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Tewksbury. 


STRAWBERRY  SURPRISE 

Mash  1  quart  of  strawberries  to  a  pulp;  add  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  2  cups  of  water,  juice  of  1  lemon  and  the  unbeat- 
en whites  of  3  eggs;  turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  Will 
make  half  a  gallon  of  delicious  "surprise,"  will  serve  10  peo- 
ple generously. — Mrs.  Augustinus. 


MAPLE  PARFAIT 

6  egg  yolks  %  cup  maple  syrup 

1  pint  of  thick  cream 

Beat  eggs  until  light;  add  syrup  and  stir  constantly 

over  fire  until  mixture  forms  a   thick  coating  on  spoon. 

Whip  cream  and  mix  lightly  with  egg  mixture.    Turn  into  a 

3-pint  mold,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  3  hours. — 

Helen  B.  Lanterman. 


How  to  Store  Food 

The  refrigerator  should  be 
*  used  for  storing  not  only  all 
the  surplus  of  the  prepared 
perishable  foods,  but  also  all 
such  foods  as  are  subject  to  at- 
tack by  insect  or  microbic  life. 
This  includes  all  dried  fruits  and 
special  prepared  foods,  fancy 
flours,  etc. 

Drinking  water  should  be 
placed,  cool  in  large  bottles  and 
kept  on  the  floor  of  the  refrig- 
erator. Butter,  lard,  cream  and 
milk  should  be  kept  on  the 
lower  shelf — tender  vegetables 
and  fruits  on  the  upper  shelf — 
meats,  as  well  as  other  foods, 
on  the  intermediate  shelves. 

For  best  results  use  ice  the 
year  around. 

Suburban  Ice  Company 

1600  -  PHONES  -  1601 


98  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


ANGEL  PARFAIT 

%  cup  sugar  6  tablespoons  almonds,  chop- 

V%  CUP  water  ped  and  blanched 

12  marshmallows,  quartered  2  cups  whipping  cream 
2  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  flavoring  . 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  soft  ball  stage;  add  marsh- 
mallows  (do  not  stir  mixture) ;  pour  over  egg  whites  which 
have  been  beaten  stiff ;  add  almonds  and  whipped  cream ;  put 
in  lined  mold  and  freeze. — Myrtle  Irene  Powers. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

1  cup  maple  syrup  4  eggs 

1  pint  whipping  cream 

Heat  beaten  egg  yolks  and  syrup  until  creamy,  not  too 
hot.  Allow  to  cool.  Beat  whites  of  eggs.  Whip  cream. 
Mix  cream  and  whites  of  eggs.  Then  add  the  yolks  and 
syrup  mixture.  Freeze  slowly,  without  much  turning.  Let 
stand  in  pack  for  1  hour. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 

MILK  SHERBET 

1  quart  sweet  milk  2  cups  sugar 

2  lemons  (juice) 

Little  lemon  extract.  Have  ice  chopped  and  every- 
thing ready;  put  milk  in  freezer,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 
May  also  add  juice  of  2  oranges  or  some  pineapple  or  ban- 
anas. Do  not  cook  anything.  Just  mix  and  freeze. — Mrs. 
C.  W.  Hunter 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk  scalded  with  1  pint  of  sugar.  Cool 
and  add 4  cup  of  cream,  juice  of  3  oranges  and  a  small  grat- 
ing of  yellow  rind,  1  lemon,  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Freeze.— Mrs. 
Robt.  Frey. 


COOK  BOOK  99 


PEPPERMINT  ICE  CREAM 

1  lb.  of  peppermint  stick  candy,  preferably  red  striped. 
Put  on  slow  fire  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover,  until  dis- 
solved. Cool  and  add  about  a  quart  of  thin  cream  and  freeze. 
—Mrs.  W.  L.  Bourland. 


ANGEL  PARFAIT 

Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  y%  of  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  %  cup  of  water  in  sauce  pan,  place  on  fire 
and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  cook  slowly  until  a 
little  dropped  in  cold  water  and  rolled  between  the  fingers 
forms  a  ball.  Pour  this  hot  syrup  slowly  into  the  beaten 
whites,  beating  constantly ;  add  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  maras- 
chino or  sherry,  or  any  other  flavoring.  When  cold,  add  a 
pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  into  freezer  and 
pack. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Dunn. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  doz.  stale  macaroons  (rolled) 

V2  CUP  of  water  1  cup  English  walnuts,  candied 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  Cherries  and  pineapple,  cut  fine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  pint  cream  whipped 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads.  Pour  on  beaten 
whites;  beat  until  cool;  stir  in  gently  1  pint  of  cream,  well 
whipped;  add  nuts,  vanilla,  fruit  and  macaroons.  Pack  in 
ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  4  hours. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Gibson. 

MACAROONS 

Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  very  light,  into  this  mix  1  tea 
cup  of  white  sugar,  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  20  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Take 
off  the  stove  and  add  y^  lb.  of  cocoanut  and  flavor.  Drop 
in  teaspoons  on  waxed  paper  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Nellie 
M.  Powers. 


100  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


PIES 


The  best  recipe  for  any  possible  combination  is  an  ounce 
of  common  sense. 

HOT  WATER  PIE  CRUST 
3  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup  shortening,  V2  cup  boiling 
water,  V2  teaspoon  salt  if  butter  is  used  or  1  teaspoon  salt  if 
lard  is  used,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Sift  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour.  Put  shortening  in 
bowl ;  pour  hot  water  over  and  beat  with  fork  until  creamy. 
Stir  in  dry  ingredients  and  roll  out.  Never  fails. — Mrs.  Win. 
J.  Herzog. 

PASTRY  FOR  PIES 
Mix  in  proportion  of  1  cup  of  shortening  to  3  cups  of 
pastry  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt.    Have  material  cold.    Moisten 
with  ice  water.    For  shortening  use  %  lard  and  }«$  butter, 
mix  with  a  knife. — Mrs.  C.  Simpson. 

CREAM  PIE 
2  eggs,  beat  five  minutes;  1  cup  sugar,  beat  five  min- 
utes more;  1  cup  of  flour  in  which  is  sifted  l1/*  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  V2  cup  scalded  milk.    Bake  in  moderate 
oven  20  to  30  minutes  in  2  tins. 

FILLING 

1  egg  slightly  beaten     1  cup  of  milk 

V2  CUP  of  sugar  1  desert  spoon  of  flour 

Cook  in  double  boiler  like  boiled  custard.    When  cool 

add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  place  between  cake. — Mrs.  Hol- 

lings.  f  ' " 

CREAM  PIE 
1  pint  of  milk         2  rounding  tabl spoons  cornstarch 
1/2  cup  sugar  i/^teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  y*  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Cook  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  milk  with  pinch  of  salt  in 
double  boiler  until  spoon  is  coated.  Add  cornstarch  and  cook 
until  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  flavor.  Put  in  baked 
crust,  cover  with  meringue  and  brown  in  oven. — Harriet  B. 
Touzalin. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 
Line  a  glass  pie  plate  with  fairly  rich  crust  and  bake. 

FILLING 
li/:>  cups  of  water  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1  lar<re  cup  brown  sugar      Pinch  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  tablesnoon  vinegar             Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  creamy.  Top  with 
whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  or 
sweetened  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  John  Mavor. 


COOK  BOOK  101 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

1  cup  dark  brown  sugar        2  eggs 
i/2  cup  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  rounding  tablespoons  flour    . 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  butter  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball. 
Mix  egg  yolks  with  y2  cup  of  milk  and  flour.  Heat  rest  of 
milk  in  double  boiler  and  add  egg  mixture  and  syrup  and 
cook  until  thick  custard.  Add  beaten  egg  whites. — Mrs.  W. 
J.  Tewksbury. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

6  tablespoons  light  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  2  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  flour  Salt 

Vanilla 

Separate  2  eggs.  Add  6  tablespoons  of  light  brown 
sugar  to  yolks.  Add  4  level  tablespoons  flour,  pinch  of  salt 
and  2  cups  of  milk.  Stir  until  smooth.  Cook  in  double  boil- 
er until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  1/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cover  with  meringue.— 
Mrs.  K.  C.  Holman. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar     2  eggs 

1  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter       4  tablespoons  flour 

1/2  teaspoon  of  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter ;  add  warm  milk,  in  double  boil- 
er; Beat  egg  yolks;  add  flour  and  salt;  combine  with  milk 
mixture  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Cool 
and  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites  and  vanilla.  Place  in  pie  shell 
previously  baked  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
Frank  M.  Bartlett. 

APRICOT  CUSTARD  PIE 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  flour 

$4  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  apricot  juice 

Line  pie  tin.  Do  not  bake.  Cover  the  bottom  with  apri- 
cots. Make  a  custard  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  flour 
and  juice;  pour  over  apricots  and  bake.  Beat  whites,  add 
sugar,  put  on  top  and  brown. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Austin. 


102  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CREAM  PRUNE  PIE 

Stew  prunes  and  rub  through  colander 
1  cup  of -prune  pulp  1  teaspoon  cornstarch,  rounded 

1  cup  of  sweet  cream  Beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs 

%  cup  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  apricot  juice 

Mix  well;  turn  into  crust  and  bake.  iWhen  done,  beat 
the  whites  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  spread  on  top. 
Return  to  oven  to  brown.  Medium  sized  pie. — Mrs.  Willis 
Ward. 


LEMON  CREAM  PIE 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  1  lemon,  14  cup  of  sugar,  2  rounding  tablespoons  of 
flour,  1%  cups  of  sweet  milk,  pinch  of  salt.  Put  milk  in 
double  boiler  with  sugar  and  butter.  Let  come  to  a  boil. 
Make  a  smooth  paste  of  the  flour  and  add  with  the  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  lemon  to  the  milk,  boil  a  few  moments.  Have 
ready  a  baked  crust ;  pour  in  filling  and  top  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  egg  whites  beaten  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  browned  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Edna  M.  Dull. 


RAISIN  PIE 

1  lemon  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour,  large 

1  cup  cold  water  V2  cup  raisins 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  with  the  well  beaten  egg,  add  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  then  raisins  and  water.  Cook  un- 
til it  thickens  and  bake  with  2  crusts.  1  pie. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Wylie, 


CRANBERRY  PIE 

1  coffee  cup  of  cranberries,  chopped,  not  too  fine ;  1  cof- 
fee cup  of  sugar ;  1  small  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  dissolved 
in  %  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  lower  crust.  Add  a  mer- 
ingue, 1  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each  egg.  Put  in  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating  all  the  time. — Mrs.  Wells. 


COOK  BOOK  163 


GOOD  RHUBARB  PIE 

2  cups  rhubarb  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  mixed  together;  2  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten, 
1  small  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Stir  all  together  and  bake  in  lower  crust  in  slow  oven. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  brown 
lightly.—Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 


WASHINGTON  PIE 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour 
3  tablespoons  cold  water 
3  eggs 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  cold  water, 
beat  whites  together.  Add  flour  and  bake.  Very  good  and 
easy  to  make. — Mrs.  Janet  D.  Emery. 


RHUBARB  PIE 

Beat  1  egg  in  good  sized  bowl,  add  1  tea  cup  of  sugar, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  flour.  Cut  in  small  pieces  1  large  cup  of 
pie  plant  and  add  to  above.  Stir  carefully  until  pie  plant  is 
covered.  Bake  with  upper  crust.  A  cherry  pie  is  much  im- 
proved by  using  same  process. — Mrs.  Wells. 


RHUBARB  PIE 

11/2  cups  rhubarb  cut  in  fine  cubes         1  egg 

%  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

Mix  eggy  flour  and  sugar  together  first.  Add  rhubarb 
and  put  in  crust  to  bake.  Use  top  crust  also.— Mrs.  P.  L. 
Evans 


104 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM  PIE— (For  Two  Pies) 

li/k  cups  sugar  1  can  shredded  pineapple 

6  level  tablespoons  cornstarch      4  egg  yolks 
%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

3  cups  boiling  water  3  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients  in  double  boiler  and  pour  on  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  constantly  until'  perfectly  smooth.  Cook 
y%  hour  or  until  starch  is  well  cooked.  Heat  pineapple,  beat 
yolks  slightly  and  add  hot  pineapple  to  it  slowly  also  lemon 
juice  and  butter,  add  to  cornstarch  mixture.  Cook  15  min- 
utes. Fill  baked  shells  and  cook.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  meringue  made  by  beating  the  4  whites  stiff  and 
adding  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  2  drops  of  vanilla. 
Spread  over  pies  and  brown  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs,  E.  E. 
Crook. 

ORANGE  PIE 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  of  flour  Juice  of  1  lemon 

%  teaspoon  of  salt  %  cup  orange  juice 

Vz  grated  rind  of  1  orange 

Sift  dry  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  cup  of 
water  slowly  Cook  15  minutes.  Separate  eggs,  slightly  beat 
adding  some  cooked  mixture  while  beating.  Cook  1  minute 
only.    When  cool  add  juices  and  rind. 

MERINGUE 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  for  2  eggs;  add  ^  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Hilbish. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE 

First  put  crust  in  bottom  of  pie  plate,  fill  with  dry  pieces 
of  bread  or  crackers,  put  top  crust  on,  bake  until  brown; 
then  take  off  top  crust  and  take  out  pieces  of  bread  and 
crackers.  Have  berries  ready,  well  sweetened  and  whites  of 
2  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened,  put  in  berries  and  on  top 
crust.  Spread  whites  of  eggs.  Put  in  oven  and  let  brown. 
— Mrs.  E.  Simpson 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  pinch  of  nutmeg 

%  cup  seedless  raisins      1  cup  of  sugar 

V-j  teaspoon  cinnamon      3  egg  yolks 

14  teaspoon  cloves  1  egg  white 

Bake  in  an  unbaked  shell  in  slow  oven,  until  set  like 
custard,  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  until  stiff  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  spread  on  top  after  pie  is  baked  and 
brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  Augustinus. 


COOK  BOOK  105 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Mix  2  tablespoons,  heaping,  of  cocoa  with  %  of  a  cup  of 
sugar.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  2  cups  of  hot  milk. 
Then  mix  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
with  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  to  the  hot  mixture.  Cook, 
stirring  constantly,  until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  Add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  creamy,  to  the  mixture  just  as  you 
take  it  from  the  fire.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  cooked  crust, 
spread  with  a  meringue  made  of : 

2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened  with  2  table- 
spoons of  granulated  sugar,  and  brown  slowly  in  oven.  We 
prefer  whipped  cream  instead  of  the  meringue. — Mrs.  Paine. 

LEMON  PIE 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  2   heaping  tablespoons   corn- 

1  cup  of  sugar  starch 

Rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon       1  cup  boiling  water 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  stir  in  stiffly  beat- 
en whites  of  2  eggs.  Frost  with  meringue  made  from  2  egg 
whites. — Mrs.  D.  M.  Workman. 

LEMON  PIE 

1  cup  hot  water,  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved 
in  cold  water.  Stir  cornstarch  into  hot  water,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  small  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  eggs,  rind  and  juice  of 
1  lemon,  pinch  of  salt. 

For  meringue  use  the  beaten  whites,  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Brown  lightly  in  oven. 
For  pie  without  meringue  use  only  1  egg. — Mrs.  E.  A. 
Thompson. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE 

1  small  cup  of  sugar  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  of  water  2  eggs  (use  yolks  for  filling 
1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice  and  whites  for  top) 

1  small  piece  of  butter 

Line  pie  tin  with  pie  crust  and  bake;  in  the  meantime, 
beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar  and  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon, 
add  water,  using  y%  cup  of  water  to  dissolve  cornstarch,  add 
butter.  Let  cook  thoroughly  before  adding  to  baked  crust, 
then  add  beaten  whites  for  top  and  brown  in  moderate  oven, 
— Mrs.  John  W.  Patterson.  . 


106 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

MINCE  MEAT 

2  bowls  meat  (4  lbs.)         2  tablespoons  cloves 
4  bowls  chopped  apple        1  nutmeg 

1  bowl  suet  2  lbs.  Sultana  raisins 

1  bowl  molasses  1  lb.  currants 

1  bowl  vinegar  citron,  lemon,  orange  peel 

3  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  pint  boiled  cider 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon      1  pint  sweet  cider 

A  good  tablespoon  of  salt 

— Jane  Toates. 

VEGETARIAN  MINCE  MEAT 

3  pints  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
4  cups  brown  sugar        1  teaspoon  cloves 
1%  cups  vinegar  %  teaspoon  allspice 

3  cups  raisins  %  teaspoon  mace 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon    2  teaspoons  salt 
Boil  1  hour.    Add  3  pints  of  chopped  apples.    Boil  an- 
other hour.    Add  %  cup  of  butter.    Seal  while  hot. — Mrs. 
Gore. 

HOME  MADE  MINCE  MEAT 
4  lb.  beef  cooked  tender    1  tablespoon  cinnamon 
8  lbs.  cooking  apples  1  tablespoon  cloves 

2  lbs.  seedless  raisins  1  tablespoon  allspice 

2  lbs.  currants  1  tablespoon  mace 

!/2  lb.  citron  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  lemons,  grind  rind  1  lb.  white  sugar 

1  can  sour  cherries  1  lb.  brown  sugar 

1  can  pineapple  1  quart  molasses 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  lb.  suet 

1  quart  cider 
Grind  with  coarse  knife  in  grinder,  meat,  apples,  citron, 
lemon  rind,  raisins,  pineapple.  Add  spices.  Mix  all  togeth- 
er, then  add  cherries,  pineapple,  cider.  Put  over  fire  and 
scald,  after  taking  off  fire  add  1  pound  of  ground  suet.  Put 
in  jars  and  pour  molasses  over  top  of  each  jar. — Mrs.  F.  L. 
Erion. 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 

1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped  and  drained 

1  cup  vinegar  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 
41/2  lbs.  sugar                1  teaspoon  cloves 

2  lbs.  raisins  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  orange,  juice  and  outside  rind  shaved  thin 
(Do  not  put  in  white  part) 
Cook  tomatoes  and  vinegar  and  when  partly  done,  add 
rest  of  ingredients  and  cook  2  hours.    When  making  pies, 
add  pieces  of  butter. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Reckley, 


COOK  BOOK  107 


MOTHER'S  MINCE  MEAT 

3  bowls  of  meat  (6,  or  6  lbs.) 
5  bowls  of  apples  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

1  bowl  of  molasses  2  tablespoons  of  cloves 

1  bowl  of  vinegar  1  tablespoon  nutmeg 

2  bowls  of  cider  1  tablespoon  of  salt 

1  bowl  suet,  ground        1  tablespoon  black  pepper 

3  bowls  of  sugar  3  boxes  seeded  raisins 

Add  all  but  meat  and  spices,  boil  until  raisins  are  tend- 
er, then  add  meat  and  spices  and  heat  thoroughly. — May  W. 
Holman. 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  large  cup  of  pumpkin  1  teaspoon  of  flour 

V2  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1/2  teaspoon  ginger  1  egg 

y%  teaspoon  cinnamon  114  cups  of  milk 

Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Max  Eggert. 

CARROT  PIE 

1  cup  carrot  pulp  (after  cooking  and  sieving) 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch)     «.,»,.  , 

«/.  .  ,.  I     Sift  into  above 

„     V2  teaspoon  salt  >,  .        .     .     .  v 

•     '*,  .  I  (or  spices  to  taste) 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  J 


2  eggs  2  tablespoons  melted 

1  cup  milk  butter 

2  tablespoons  granulated  Lemon  extract  if  de- 

sugar  sired 

14  cup  Karo 


-Mrs.  Drewes. 


MOCK  CHERRY  PIE 


11/2  cups  cranberries,  cut  in  halves;  1  cup  seeded  rais- 
ins; 1  small  cup  sugar;  1  cup  cold  water;  1  tablespoon  flour; 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  almond  extract. 

Cook  10  minutes.    Bake  between  2  crusts. 

— Mrs.  Kenneth  Elwell. 


108  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


Cakes  and  Cookies 

In  this  collection  you  will  find, 
Cakes  of  every  size  and  kind, 
Rich  and  fruity,  dark  and  light 
And  bound  to  give  a  cook  delight. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

5  oz.  of  flour  Whites  of  11  eggs 

12  oz.  of  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  teaspoon  of  flavoring 
Sift  the  flour  4  times.  Sift  the  sugar  4  times.  Com- 
mence beating  eggs  on  a  platter.  Next  put  in  sugar  gradual- 
ly, beating  all  the  time.  Then  sift  in  flour,  then  extract.  Do 
not  stop  beating  until  ready  to  go  in  tin.  The  last  time  flour 
is  sifted,  sift  cream  of  tartar  with  it.  Do  not  take  out  of  tin 
until  it  drops.  Bake  40  minutes  to  1  hour.  This  recipe  is 
the  original  angel  food  recipe.  It  was  originally  called 
angel's  food.— Mrs.  T.  B.  Wells. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

Whites  of  11  eggs  1  tumbler  of  flour 

V/2  tumblers  of  sugar        1 V2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
Sift  each  one  five  times,  sugar  sifted  in  first,  then  flour 
and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Pruden. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

9  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

l1/^  cups  of  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  cake  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  salt  to  egg  whites  and  beat.  When  eggs  begin  to 
foam  add  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  beating  until m stiff. 
Fold  in  sifted  sugar.  Fold  in  sifted  flour  and  add  vanilla. 
Bake  for  about  40  minutes  in  an  angel  food  pan.  Have  heat 
slow  until  cake  has  baked  about  25  minutes,  then  turn  up 
gas  for  about  5  minutes  so  cake  may  brown,  then  lower  heat 
until  cake  is  done.  Invert  pan  until  cake  is  cool. — Lucile  R. 
Rife.  i.    j 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

Whites  of  11  eggs  1*4  cups  flour 

11/2  cups  sugar  Flavoring 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Beat  the  egg  whites  until  partly  stiff,  then  add  the 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Stir  in  sugar 
(which  has  been  sifted  6  or  8  times)  very  gently,  a  little  at 
a  time,  then  the  flour  (which  has  been  also  sifted  6  or  8 
times)  in  the  same  way  and  add  the  flavoring.  Put  in  an 
ungreased  pan  and  bake  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Gough. 


COOK  BOOK  109 


DAINTY  CAKE 

*4  cup  butter  IV2  cups  sugar 

1%  cups  flour  4  eggs,  separated 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  14  teaspoon  salt 

V&  teaspoon  lemon  extract  1/2  cup  cornstarch 
%  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  3  times.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  (350°)  from  15  to  20  minutes. — Mrs.  M. 
W.  Heath. 


ANGEL  FOOD  SPONGE  CAKE 

4  eggs  beaten  light 

Add  2  cups  sugar,  beat  10  min. 

1  cup  of  boiling  water 

2  cups  of  pastry  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Vo  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

1  teaspoon  flavoring  extract 

Bake  45  minutes  in  slow  oven. — Margaret  T.  Vial. 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

y*  lb.  candied  pineapple  V±  cup  butter 

V2  lb.  candied  cherries  1%  cups  sugar 

14  lb.  citron  1  cup  sour  milk 

1/2  lb.  raisins  4  eggs  beaten  separately 

•i/z  lb.  currants  1  teaspoon  soda 

1/2  lb.  nut  meats  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Flour  to  make  stiff  batter 

Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  R.  V.  Thomas. 


HOT  MILK  CAKE 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  V2  cup  hot  milk 

1  cup  sugar,  added  gradually  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder  Pinch  of  salt 
l!/2  cups  pastry  flour  Flavor  to  taste 

Sift  baking  powder  and  pastry  flour  together  and  add 
gradually.  Add  the  butter  to  the  hot  milk.  Bake  in  hot 
oven.  Good  with  any  kind  of  frosting.— Mrs.  M.  J.  Carpen- 
ter. 


110  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

1V£  cups  sugar  3  teaspoons  burnt  caramel 

V%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  egg  yolks  2  cups  flour 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Beat  together  well  and  then  add  14  cup  of  flour  addi- 
tional and  2  egg  whites  beaten  lightly. 

•    FROSTING 
IV2  cups  granulated  sugar        ys  cup  boiling  water 
Boil  until  it  threads  and  pour  over  two  beaten  egg 
whites.    Add  2  teaspoons  of  the  caramel  to  the  frosting.. 

BURNT  CARAMEL 

1  cup  sugar,  put  in  pan  and  let  brown  slightly,  then 
add  %  cup  01  hot  water  and  let  boil  until  like  syrup.  It 
takes  2  or  3  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Paine. 

CRUMB  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  sifted  %  cup  of  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs 

l1/^  cups  sugar  1  cup  of  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  sugar  together  3  times. 
Cream  butter  and  add,  then  add  eggs  unbeaten  and  milk  and 
vanilla.    Beat  until  very  light  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Use  any  icing. — Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Herzog. 

CINNAMON  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

iy%  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  cocoa 

\y%  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Sift  all  together  and  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Break  1  egg  into  a  cup  and  fill  the  cup  with  milk  and  add  to 
the  above.  Before  putting  in  the  oven  sprinkle  sugar  over 
the  top  of  cake  and  then  sprinkle  cinnamon  over  top  of  the 
sugar.    This  is  nice  served  with  tea. — Mrs.  Chas.  Bennett. 

LITTLE  DATE  CAKES 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  V2  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour 
1  cup  sour  cream      1  teaspoon  soda  in  cream 

\y%  cups  flour  %  package  dates 

— Margaret  A.  Randall. 


COOK  BOOK  111 


SPONGE  CAKE 

6  eggs  1  cup  pastry  flour 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  20  minutes.  Fold  in  floui 
which  has  been  sifted  several  times  with  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Schwytzer. 


MOCK  ANGEL  CAKE 

1  cup  of  milk  Pinct  of  salt 

1  cup  of  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  of  flour  2  egg  whites 

Heat  milk  to  boiling  point.  Have  all  dry  ingredients 
sifted  4  times  and  into  this  pour  boiling  milk  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Fold  stiffly  beaten  whites  in  carefully.  Put  in 
greased  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven*- — Mrs.  Russell 
Howard. 


"NEVER  FAIL"  SPONGE  CAKE 

1  scant  cup  of  flour,  V/%  teaspoons  baking  powder  sift- 
ed together,  3  eggs  separated,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  of  hot 

water,  J/2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  the  sugar 
sifted  then  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  flour  little  at  a  time, 
folding  it  in.  Do  not  beat.  Then  in  same  manner  add  the 
hot  water,  and  the  vanilla. — Althea  S.  Godso. 


WALNUT  CAKE 


l/2  cup  butter  14  CUP  milk 

l"cup  sugar  VJ*  cup  flour 

3  ^gg  yolks  \y%  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  egg  whites  %~cup  walnut  meats,  broken 

Flavor 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  sugar,  then  egg  yolks  well 
beaten,  and  milk.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  and 
beat  vigorously.  Add  nuts  slightly  floured,  then  fold  in  egg 
whites  which  have  been  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  45  minutes 
in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 


112 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE 

1  cup  of  milk  1/2  cup  butter 

2%  cups  cake  flour  IV2  cups  of  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        y2  teaspoon  grated  orange 

5  or  6  egg  whites  rind 

Pinch  of  salt 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  thoroughly,  add  or- 
ange rind  and  salt,  alternate  the  milk  and  2  cups  of  flour, 
beating  thoroughly,  then  add  the  remaining  14  cup  of  flour 
sifted  with  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  stir,  not  beat 
in.    Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.    Bake  in  3  layers.  Use 
grated  fresh  cocoanut  for  a  delicious  cake. 
COCOANUT  FROSTING 
2  cups  sugar  2  egg  whites 

V2  cup  water  Vanila  and  lemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  soft  ball  stage,  add  to  stiffly 
beaten  whites  and  continue  to  beat  until  thick  enough  to 
spread.    Sprinkle  cocoanut  over. — Mrs.  J.  0.  Kelso. 

WHITE  CAKE 
"  2  cups  granulated  sugar  3  cups  flour 

V2  cup  Snowdrift  shortening    3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
114  cups  milk  Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff 

Pinch  of  salt 

—Mrs.  Gaylord. 
MAPLE  NUT  CAKE 
V'l  cup  of  sugar,  fill  cup  with  maple  syrup,  14  cup  of 
softened  butter,  ±1/2  beaten  eggs  (1  whole  egg  and  1  yolk), 
1/2  cup  sour  cream,  1%  cups  sifted  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  of 
soda  in  cream.  Put  all  ingredients  together  and  beat  hard 
for  5  minutes.    Bake  in  2  deep  layers. 

For  the  icing,  boil  2  cups  of  maple  syrup  until  it  threads, 
pour  over  beaten  egg  white  and  beat  until  ready  to  spread. 
Add  1  cup  of  chopped  marshmallows  and  1  cup  of  chopped 
nut  meats. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Langwill. 

ICE  CHEST  CAKE 

1  tablespoon   confectionery   sugar     4  eggs 

2  bars  German  sweet  chocolate  15  lady  fingers 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water 

Serve  with  V2  Pmt  of  whipped  cream  and  cherries. 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar, 
stir  into  melted  chocolate  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  boil- 
ing water,  stir  and  let  cool.  Split  lady  fingers.  Line  tin 
with  oiled  paper  well  up  over  edges,  put  1  layer  of  lady  fing- 
ers, then  layer  of  chocolate,  making  3  layers.  Let  set  for  24 
hours  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  and  cherries. — Mrs.  F. 
C.  Fry. 


COOK  BOOK  113 


LITTLE  LEMON  CAKES 

14  cup  butter  Yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  cup  sugar  1*4  cups  flour 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  14  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  4  egg  whites,  beaten  and  fold- 

ed in  last. 
— Mrs.  Chas.  Bennett. 

PINEAPPLE  LAYER  CAKE 

i/2  cup  shortening        2  egg  yolks 
IV2  cups  sugar  2*4  cups  flour 

314  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 
14  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  %  cup  milk 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  slowly.  Sift  baking- 
powder,  flour  and  salt  together  and  add  alternately  with  the 
milk.    Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites  last. 

FILLING  AND  ICING 

3  cups  confectioners  sugar,  14  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  diced  canned  pineapple,  and  1  tea- 
spoon melted  butter. 

Add  milk  to  sugar  and  beat  until  smooth,  then  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  pineapple  and  spread  between  layers. 
Sprinkle  with  small  pieces  of  pineapple,  drained  well.  Spread 
the  icing  on  top  and  sides  of  cake  and  add  pieces  of  pine- 
apple while  icing  is  still  soft. — Mrs.  Squires. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

%  cup  butter  2  cups  fine  granulated  sugar 

3  cups  pastry  flour  (sift  before  measuring) 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  orange  extract 

Cream  butter,  to  which  gradually  cream  in  the  sugar. 
Sift  together  3  times  the  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  1 
tablespoon  of  this  prepared  flour  to  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar,  then  add  the  eggs,  1  at  a  time  without  first  beating, 
adding  a  tablespoon  of  the  prepared  flour  before  folding  in 
each  egg.  Then  continue  adding  the  flour  alternately  with 
the  cup  of  milk.  Flavor.  This  makes  2  loaves  or  2  sheets  of 
cake,  and  the  recipe  may  be  halved,  and  part  used  as  a  nut 
cake  by  flavoring  with  vanilla  instead  of  orange  and  adding 
1/2  cup  of  walnut  meats,  cut  fine. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Duclos. 


114         YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

BROWN  FIG  CAKE 

J^  lb.  figs  ground  fine  Vo  cup  butter 

1  cup  raisins  4  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  in  which     V-i  cup  milk 

dissolve  2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda  1   teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  level  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Cinnamon,  cloves  to  taste 

Save  whites  of  2  of  the  eggs  for  frosting. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together  and  add  other 
ingredients.  Divide  into  3  layers  and  bake  about  25  or  30 
minutes.  Put  together  with  plain  white  icing.  This  is  a 
good  substitute  for  fruit  cake  as  it  keeps  moist  for  a  long 
time.— Mrs.  A.  F.  Grenell. 

RAISIN  CAKE 

Vt  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

11/2  cups  sugar  1  cup  raisin  water 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 
Cover  3  cups  small  seedless  raisins  with  boiling  water. 
Let  simmer  20  minutes  and  then  cool  and  drain.  Flour  rais- 
ins well  with  part  of  the  flour  from  the  3  cups.  Use  the  cup 
of  water  for  the  cake  drained  from  the  raisins.  Bake  45 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Frost  with  fudge  frosting. — 
Mrs.  Byron  Greenlee. 

MARASCHINO  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  butter  15  or  18  maraschino  cherries 

2  eggs  separated  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Vt  cup  milk  and  cherry  juice  1*4  cups  Swansdown  flour 

mixed 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  egg  yolks  beaten  lightly. 
Add  milk  and  cherry  juice.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  3  times  and  add,  then  cherries  rolled  in  some  of  the 
flour,  the  vanilla  and  then  the  egg  whites  folded  in  last. — 
Edna  T.  Heppes. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar:  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

6  tablespoons  water  1  cup  flour 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  water, 
then  sifted  flour  and  egg  whites  alternately,  then  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  vanilla  last.  Pour  in  a  greased  tube  pan  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Classen. 


COOK  BOOK  115 


MOTHERS  GINGER  CAKE 

Mix  in  this  order : 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  y*  teaspoon  cinnamon,  14  teaspoon 
nutmeg,  pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter  (or  shortening) , 
!/•>  cup  brown  sugar.  Stir  this  well  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling 
water,  1  cup  of  molasses  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
stirred  in,  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  raisins  to  taste. 

This  makes  a  very  thin  batter  and  must  be  baked  in  a 
slow  oven  about  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Max  Eggert. 

SPICE  CAKES 

Two  eggs,  separated.  To  well  beaten  yolks  add  %  cup 
of  sugar,  14  cup  of  softened  butter,  y%  cup  of  molasses,  y% 
cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  IV2  cups  flour  sifted  with 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  V2  teaspoon  cloves,  little  nutmeg.  Mix 
with  the  flour  V2  CUP  of  chopped  or  seedless  raisins  and  y% 
cup  of  chopped  nut  meats.  Lastly,  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites 
and  bake  in  small  tins  in  slow  oven.  These  are  not  so  good 
if  made  too  stiff. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Langwill. 


SPICE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  of  flour 

V2  cup  of  butter  B  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk  %  teaspoon  cloves 

Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  milk,  then  spices  and 
baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  and  beat  well.  Make  2  lay- 
ers in  medium  sized  tins.  Use  butter  and  cream  icing. — 
Mrs.  W.  A.  Cooper. 


NEVER  FAIL  CAKE 

V2  CUP  °f  melted  butter,  2  eggs  broken  into  cup  with 
melted  butter  and  fill  up  with  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
114  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Stir  rapidly  and  bake  in  loaf  or  as  cup  cakes.  To 
be  eaten  fresh. — Mrs.  James  Kidston. 


116  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

SPICE  CAKE 

1%  cups  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  sour  cream  l1/*  teaspoons  soda 
%  cup  butter  (scant)  1/2  teaspoon  cloves 

2  cups  flour  y*i  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  or  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

currants  y%  teaspoon  allspice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  2  eggs  beaten 
lightly.  Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together  and  add.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  40  minutes.  Sweet  milk  can  be  used  in 
place  of  sour  milk,  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  used  in 
place  of  soda. — Myrtle  Irene  Powers. 


DATE  CAKE 

lcup  brown  sugar  IV2  cups  flour  ( 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  butter  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

V2  CUP  sour  milk  1  lb.  dates  cut  up 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract         %  cup  broken  walnut 

meats 

Bake  in  loaf  or  square  tin.- — Jane  Toates. 

DATE  CAKE 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  lb.  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

1  lb.  lard  1  egg 
14  teaspoon  cloves 

Pour  1  cup  boiling  water  and  1  teaspoon  soda  over  1  cup 
chopped  dates.  Add  1%  cups  flour,  !/2  cup  chopped  nuts. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Sprinkle  with  confectionery  sugar. 
— Mrs.  Durland. 


PRUNE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  pinch  of  salt 
creamed  well  together.  Two  eggs  beaten  well  together  and 
added  to  first  mixture.  One  cup  sweet  milk  with  teaspoon 
soda,  scant.  One  cup  stewed  and  sweetened  prunes,  one-half 
cup  walnut  meats.  Flour  to  make  a  cake  batter  with  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Frost  with  boiled  icing.  This 
cake  keeps  well  because  of  the  moisture  in  the  prunes. — Mrs. 
W.  R.  Ruegnitz. 


COOK  BOOK  117 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

2  cups  apple  sauce  2  cups  brown  sugar 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking      2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

soda  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  large  tablespoon  lard  or        1  teaspoon  cloves 

butter  1/2  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg  Flour  enough  to  thicken 

All  or  any  of  the  following  fruits  may  be  added :  1% 
lb.  raisins,  V2  lb.  dates,  a  little  citron  and  a  few  nuts. — Mrs. 
Harry  W.  Dietrich. 

FRENCH  CAKE 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  water  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  shortening  2  tablespoons  cocoa 

2  cups  raisins 
Mix  these  ingredients  and  boil  three  minutes.    Let  cool. 
Then  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  hot  wa- 
ter.   Add  4  cups  flour  measured  after  sifting  and  1  cup  nuts. 
Bake  in  loaf  for  1  hour.    Slow  oven. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi . 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE 

1  I   ]™V*lgf;        Warned 
I    J/2  C11P  butter     J 

0  .„  (iy*  pint  blueberries 
2  cups  sour  milk  L  f  m. 
..                                    n     11  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  3    <  -  .  , 
n               ,.  .                         jl  teaspoon  soda 
2  eggs  well  beaten               L  -  ,,          ,    .-,    ,  fl 

U  full  quart  sifted  flour 

Put  No.  3  in  large  pan  with  berries  well  floured.  Mix 
No.  1  and  No.  2  and  put  in  middle  of  No.  3,  then  stir  all  well 
from  outside  edge  of  pan  to  middle.  Bake  in  dripping  pan 
in  rather  slow  oven. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Morey. 

DATE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  crisco  or  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  whole  eggs  or  3 
yolks,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  vanilla  or 
other  flavoring  Grind  through  meat  chopper  1  package 
dates  or  figs,  1  cup  raisins.  Add  1  cup  boiling  water  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  1  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  with  fruit 
and  add  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  V2  teaspoon  cloves.  Mix 
fruit  and  cake  mixture  together  thoroughly. — Mrs.  A.  M. 
Lang  will. 


118 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY     

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  14  teaspoon  soda 

l1/^  cups  flour  14  teaspoon  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Break  2  eggs  in  measuring  cup  and  fill  with  thin  sour 
cream.  Add  to  dry  ingredients,  flavor  and  bake  in  three  lay- 
ers. Put  together  with  lemon  filling  and  dust  top  with  pow- 
dered sugar. — Helen  B.  Lanterman. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE 

2  well  beaten  eggs  %  cup  milk 

1  scant  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  flour  Flavor 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Add  butter  to  the  milk  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Bake 
in  three  layers  and  spread  with  whipped  cream  between 
layers.  Sprinkle  top  with  confectionery  sugar. — Mrs.  K.  R. 
Elwell 


SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Boil  IV2  cups  of  sugar  and  VS  cup  water  till  it  forms 
soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Beat  whites  of  6  eggs  stiff  and  add 
slowly  the  syrup.  Beat  till  cool.  Beat  yolks  of  6  eggs  and 
add  slowly.  Take  1  cup  of  Swansdown  cake  flour,  measured 
after  sifting  once,  sift  5  times  and  add  1  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar.  Add  slowly  to  the  mixture  the  flour  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  with  14  teaspoon  lemon  flavoring.  This  never  fails. 
—Violet  Walter. 


DATE  LOAF  CAKE 

Stone  enough  dates  to  make  one  pound;  add  one  pound 
English  walnut  meats,  leave  dates  and  nuts  whole.  Sift 
over  them  1  cup  flour,  %  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder  (rounding) ,  sift  three  dry  things  together  three 
times,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  sift  again.  Beat  whites  and 
yolks  of  four  eggs  separately,  add  yolks,  then  whites,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Line  pan 
with  butter  paper.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — May  W. 
Holman. 


COOK  BOOK  119 


SPANISH  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

V%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1%  cups  sugar  2  squares  chocolate  melted 

4  eggs  5  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Vt  cup  milk  1%  scant  cups  Swansdown 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder      cake  flour 

Melt  the  chocolate,  add  boiling  water,  cream  butter,  add 
sugar,  cream  all  thoroughly.  Add  yolks  and  beat  hard ;  then 
add  milk,  melted  chocolate  and  gradually  the  flour  which  has 
been  thoroughly  sifted  with  baking  powder ;  beat  vigorously. 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla.  Mix  quick- 
ly and  bake  very  slowly  in  two  layers  or  one  deep  cake  tin. 
Frost  with  chocolate  or  caramel  frosting. — Helen  P.  John- 
son. 

EXCELLENT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1/2  cup  of  butter  1%  cups  of  flour 

2  squares  of  cholocate  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  egg  yolk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder     . 

1  cup  of  milk  14  teaspoon  of  soda 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate.  Add  beaten  egg  yolk  with 
y%  cup  of  milk.  In  a  mixing  bowl,  sift  flour,  sugar  and  bak- 
ing powder.  Stir  in  the  chocolate  mixture,  and  add  soda 
dissolved  in  14  cup  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  square  cake  pan  40  to 
50  minutes. — Tessie  M.  Holton. 

EASY  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  squares  chocolate,  melted     ±14  cups  flour 

Scant  V2  cup  butter,  melted  2  rounding  teaspoons  baking 

1/3  cup  sugar  powder 

1  cup  water  1/2  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine 

3  eggs  14  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  yolks  of  eggs  in  bowl,  add  melted  butter  and  then 
the  sugar.  Then  add  a  little  flour,  add  water,  then  the  rest 
of  the  flour ;  add  nut  meats  and  beaten  whites  of  egg,  van- 
illa and  last  the  baking  powder.  Use  Dover  beater  for  all. 
Is  delicious  served  with  whipped  cream. — May  W.  Holman. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  cold  water  2  squares  chocolate 

3  cups  flour  Vanilla 

— Mrs.  Leonard  Hon-. 


120       YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar,  5  tablespoons  cocoa,  mixed  together  dry 
14  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

1%  cups  flour  1  egg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  then  flour  and 
salt.  If  sweet  milk  is  preferred,  add  2  teaspoons  baking- 
powder  instead  of  the  soda. — Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Stevens. 

WELLESLEY  FUDGE  CAKE 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  eggs  beaten  light 

V'l  cup  mazola  oil  or  butter  i/£  cup  water 

2^4  squares  chocolate  2  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  sour  milk  Vanilla 

1  teaspoon  soda  Bake  in  two  layers 

—Mrs  0.  W.  Bartlett. 

SOFT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Cooked  Part: 

V2  cup  milk  I/2  cake,  baker's  chocolate 

1  cup  sugar  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Mix  well  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Let 
cool. 

Cake  Mixture: 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  butter  iy%  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Add  the  cooked  part  and  gently  fold  in  the  beaten 

whites  of  two  eggs.     Bake  forty-five  minutes. — Laura  V. 

Nickless. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Six  squares  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate  broken  and 
stirred  into  three-fourths  cup  milk.  Add  one  cup  sugar  and 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth.  Then 
let  cool.  Cream  together  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
butter.  Add  one-half  cup  milk,  three  eggs  beaten,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Stir  all  together  and 
add  above  chocolate  mixture,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  to- 
gether with  white  frosting  made  of  two  cups  sugar  and  eight 
tablespoons  boiling  water.  Cook  until  it  strings,  then  pour 
on  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beating  until  cool. — Mrs.  Al- 
bert Metzel. 


COOK  BOOK  121 


SKILLET  CAKE 

Put  in  large  iron  skillet  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  14  lb.  butter, 
melted.  Pour  small  can  of  shredded  pineapple  and  drain  dry. 
Then  pour  over  cake  batter  1  scant  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
each  of  lard  and  butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  salt, 
2  cups  flour  or  more  for  stiff  batter,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Pour  over  melted  butter,  sugar  and  pineapple  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  40  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream. — Maud  M.  Wakefield. 

POUND  CAKE 

1  lb.  sugar  10  eggs,  strictly  fresh 

1  lb.  butter  6  ounces  citron  peel,  cut  fine 

1  lb.  flour  sifted 

Cream  butter  well.  Beat  eggs  very  light.  Add  cream- 
ed butter  mixing  lightly  but  thoroughly.  Sift  in  the  flour 
Add  the  citron  peel.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  two  long 
pans  one  hour.  1/2  CUP  raisins  may  be  added  to  the  peel  or 
substituted  for  it.  This  is  a  very  old  Scotch  recipe. — Mrs. 
T.  C.  MacMillan. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE 

Yolks  4  eggs  IV2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar  Flour  to  fill  cup 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  1%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
^4  teaspoon  salt 
Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  flavoring.  Beat  yolks  until 
stiff;  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  2  minutes;  add  water; 
put  cornstarch  in  cup  and  fill  with  flour;  sift  cornstarch, 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  whites  and  flavoring. 
Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Large  cake. — Mrs.  Al- 
len Eddy. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

lV-j  lbs.  flour  14  gill  rose  water 

1%  lbs.  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda,  heaping 

IV2  lbs.  butter  2  teaspoons  mace 

1/2  lb.  citron  2  teaspoons  cloves 

2  lbs.  currants  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  lbs.  raisins  2  nutmegs 

12  eggs  1  good  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 

1  gill  brandy  tar 

—Mrs.  T.  B.  Wells. 


122  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


SPONGE  CAKE 

12  eggs,  the  weight  of  ten  in  sugar,  the  weight  of  6  in 
sifted  flour,  1  grated  lemon,  beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar 
until  very  light  Put  in  flour,  stirring  as  quickly  as  possible, 
add  lemon.  Beat  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  You  may  be 
obliged  to  use  a  little  of  white  of  egg  in  beating  in  flour. 
Bake  in  two  angel  food  tins.  Let  stand  until  ready  to  drop 
out.— Mrs.  T.  B.  Wells. 


SWYBACK  CAKE 

1  scant  cup  sugar  1  cup  walnuts  cut  fine 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  •        Pinch  salt 

Vanilla  V&  box  Swyback  rolled  fine 

Bake  in  two  layers,  modern  oven.  About  two  hours  be- 
fore serving,  put  sweetened  whipped  cream  between  layers 
and  on  top. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Moore. 


ICE  BOX  CAKE 

3  doz.  lady  fingers  2  eggs 

14  lb.  unsalted  butter  1  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  %  pint  unwhipped  cream 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  cream 
again,  then  add  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and  the  juice 
and  cream  all  together.  Place  a  layer  of  lady  fingers  in  a 
square  pan  or  dish  spread  with  the  filling,  then  another  lay- 
er of  lady  fingers  covered  with  the  filling,  and  so  on  until  all 
is  used  up.  Place  in  ice  box  and  let  remain  for  at  least 
twenty-four  hours.  Whip  the  cream  and  pour  over  the  top 
when  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  W.  0.  Austin. 


CUP  CAKES 

1%  cups  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

V2  CUP  of  butter  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

V2  CUP  of  milk  (sweet)  2  cups  of  pastry  flour 

4  eggs  stirred  in  last  without  beating 

— Mrs.  A.  E.  Leonard. 


COOK  BOOK  123 


DROP  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs  beaten  very  light 

Creamed  together  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powd      .ia 

*/i  CUP  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 

Flour  for  a  stiff  batler 

— Mrs.  A.  E.  Leonard. 

LITTLE  GOLD  CAKES  (Good  for  Using  Egg  Yolks) 

1  tablespoon  butter  1/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

lA  cup  sugar  %  cup  sifted  bread  flour 

4  egg  yolks  (beaten  till  thick)  Grated  nutmeg 
i4cup  milk  Few  grains  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  beaten  yolks,  and 
beat  hard.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with 
milk,  and  bake  in  small  tins.  Frost  when  cold  and  place 
candied  cherry  on  top  of  each. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Hacker. 

HERMITS 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs 

2%  cups  flour  3  tablespoons  sour  milk 

1  cup  currants  1  teaspoon  soda 

\y>i  cup  raisins  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

V2  teaspoon  nutmeg- 
Mix  as  for  cake.    Drop  from  spoon  on  to  greased  cookie 
pans.    Moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 

CHOCOLATE  INDIANS 

2  squares  chocolatei  14  teaspoon  salt 

V-2  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

%  cup  bread  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
1  cup  of  sugar 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  butter,  stir  until  but- 
ter melts  and  set  aside,  beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  sift  dry  ingred- 
ients, add  eggs,  then  chocolate  mixture,  nuts,  vanilla  and 
spread  in  shallow  pan,  bake  20  minutes,  cut  into  squares. 

—Mrs.  J.  E.  Hilbish. 


124  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


OATMEAL  SPICE  COOKIES 

Cream  together  V2  cup  lard,  V2  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of 
granulated  sugar.  Beat  in  3  whole  eggs  and  add  10  table- 
spoons of  sweet  milk.  Add  3*4  cups  of  dry  rolled  oats,  1 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  and  %  of  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  sift 
together  3  cups  of  flour,  V2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  level  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  soda,  add  dry  ingre- 
dients to  the  other  mixture  and  beat  vigorously.  Drop  from 
a  teaspoon  into  a  greased  pan,  leaving  room  for  spreading 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Classen. 


MACAROONS 

2  cups  corn  cornflakes  1  cup  cocoanut 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Beat  eggs  well  and  mix  with  dry  ingredients    Drop  by 

teaspoonsful  onto  buttered  pans.    Bake  in  slow  oven.  Makes 

about  three  dozen. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


RAISIN  COOKIES 

1%  cups  of  sugar 

V%  CUP  °f  bacon  fat  or  butter 

2  eggs 

V2  CUP  °f  nuts  and  i/2  CUP  °f 
raisins  chopped 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 

two  tablespoons  of  sour  milk 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

3  cups  of  flour 


OAT  MEAL  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  butter  or  lard  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  oat  meal  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  1  teaspoon  soda  in  flour 


1  cup  chopped  nuts 


— Mrs.  Fred  S.  Lodge. 


COOK  BOOK  125 


BLACK  WALNUT  COOKIES 

1  cup  chopped  black  walnuts  i/oteaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  flour 

Butter  sheet  pan  very  generously.     Pour  batter  and 
bake  very  slowly  until  done.    Cut  in  squares  white  hot. 

— Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 


HERMITS 

1  large  cup  light  brown  sugar  V£  teaspoon  cloves 
%  cup  lard  (small)  part  but-  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

ter  if  desired  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  egg 

Pinch  salt  1  cup  raisins 

1  <2  cup  walnuts  (chopped) 

Flour  about  2  cups — or  enough  to  make  batter  a  little 
stiffer  than  for  cake,  drop  on  pan  with  spoon  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. — Mrs.  John  W.  Patterson. 


SPONGE  DROPS 

3  eggs  beaten  lightly 

%  cup  sugar 

1  heaping  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

powder. 

Drop  from  teaspoon  three  inches  apart  on  buttered 
tins.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  H  L  Cary 


FRUIT  COOKIES 

11/2  cups  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

Vz  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

Cup  chopped  dates  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cloves — salt 
Flour  to  make  soft  dough. 

Drop  with  a  spoon  or  roll  them. — Jane  Toates, 


126  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIAEY 


OATMEAL  MACAROONS 

2ViS    cups  raw  oatmeal  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  add 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  add  at  the  very  last. 

oatmeal  with  baking  powder  stirred  in,  then  vanilla. 

Drop  from  a  teaspoon  into  greased  pans.    Bake  in  slow  oven, 

25  minutes,  10  minutes  on  lower  grate. 

Recipe  makes  about  50  macaroons. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Purple. 


COCOANUT  MACAROONS 

1  egg  white  }£  cup  condensed  milk 

1%  CUPS  Dromedary  cocoanuts  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  cocoanut,  condensed  milk  and  vanilla  thoroughly. 
Beat  egg  white  until  stiff,  combine  mixtures,  shape  into 
cakes.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  15  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Myron  J.  Kelly. 


SPANISH  BUN  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

1  scant  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  each  of    cinnamon 

214  cups  flour  and  cloves 

Save  whites  of  two  eggs  and  use  with  two  cups  of  sugar 
and  %  cup  boiling  water  in  a  boiled  icing.  This  make  a  large 
cake. — Mrs.'W.  R.  Ruegnitz. 


SURPRISE  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

2  eggs  1/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in     Sifted  with  flour  enough  to 
%  cup  sweet  milk  roll  easily 

When  cut,  spread  on  top  of  each  cookie  a  little  of  the 
following  mixture:  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  cin- 
namon and  3  tablespoons  sugar.     Bake  quickly. 

Edna  T.  Heppes. 


COOK  BOOK  127 


GINGER  SNAPS 

11/2  cups  sugar  1  level  tablespoon  ginger 

V2  CUP  molasses  1  cup  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  all  slowly  from  3  to  5  minutes.     When  cool  add 

1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  soda,  dissolve  soda  in  6 
tablespoons  of  cold  water,  add  flour  to  mix  quite  stiff. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Thompson. 

GINGER  COOKIES 

Melt  one  cup  of  shortening  (either  lard  or  bacon  fly- 
ings.) 

IV2  cups  molasses  1  level  tablespoon  soda  in 

%  cup  sugar  J/ocup  boiling  water 

2  heaping  teaspoons  ginger 

Little  salt  if  unsalted  shortening  is  used.  Flour  enough 
to  easily  roll.  Put  in  closed  can  while  hot  if  soft  cookies 
are  preferred.  — Mrs.  F.  J.  Lewis. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 

14  cup  butter  ^tablespoon  cream  of  tartar 

*/4  cup  lard  V2  tablespoon  soda 

2  cups  brown  sugar  314  cups  of  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  lard  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggf  y% 
cup  flour  mixed  with  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  Mix  in  the 
rest  of  flour  until  stiff  but  not  crumbly.  Make  into  loaf 
and  let  stand  in  cold  place  over  night.  Slice  quickly  next 
morning  and  bake  immediately.  Recipe  makes  four  dozen. 

— Althea  Godso. 

COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening  (Crisco)        2  eggs 

2  cup  sugar  Vanilla 

%  cup  sweet  milk  in  which  dissolve  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Mix  Y2  teaspoon  baking  power  with  flour  and  use  enough 
flour  to  roll  the  cookies  very  thin.    For  top,  use  mixture  of 

3  heaping  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  1/2  teaspoon  cloves,  place  a  little  on  each 
cookie. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Langwill. 


128  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


DEVILS  FOOD  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  y%  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

V2  cup  butter  (or  substitute)  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  sour  milk  V2  cup  raisins 

IV2  cups  Swansdown  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Drop  in  cookie  pan  and  bake  slowly  when  cool,  cover 
with  icing  made  of  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  into  powdered 
sugar,  a  square  of  melted  chocolate,  and  a  little  melted  but- 
ter and  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Bratt. 

FROSTED  CREAMS 

V^cup  sugar  1  cup  molasses 

%  cup  lard  3  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  ginger 

%  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  soda 

Cream,  lard  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  together,  then 
sour  milk,  Molasses,  flour  and  seasonings  and  at  last  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  spread  on  large  pan,  bake  in 
quick  oven.    Frost  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Purple. 

SPICE  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  butter  1/2  cup  currants 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  allspice 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  sour  cream  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  soda  pinch  of  salt 
Enough  flour  to  make  thick  batter 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  well  beaten  then  soda 
dissolved  in  cream,  mix  well  and  add  flour,  currants  and 
spice.  Drop  from  spoon  in  pan  about  an  inch  apart.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. — Margaret  E.  Thompson. 

SOUR  MILK  DROP  CAKES 

1^4  cup  sugar  V2 teaspoon  soda 

1/2  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs  1  cup  raisins 
V2  cup  sour  milk  2  cups  flour 

Bake  in  gem  pans  in  moderate  over. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Touzalin. 


COOK  BOOK  129 


TEA  CAKES 

1%  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  14  teaspoon  salt 

Break  egg  in  cup,  fill  cup  half  full  melted  butter  and 
other  half  milk,  beat  5  minutes  and  bake  in  gem  pans. — 
Ethel  M.  Heppes. 

DATE  NUT  BAR 

1  cup  cake  flour  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder        1  pound  dates 

5  eggs  114  cups  sliced  walnuts 

Sift  sugar  once  before  measuring.  Add  baking  powder, 
sift  once  and  set  aside.  Separate  the  eggs,  placing  the 
whites  in  a  shallow  bowl,  yolks  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Rub  dates 
(cut)  and  nuts  in  the  flour  so  as  to  separate  them.  Beat 
the  yolks  and  sugar  till  quite  stiff. 

Whip  the  white's  stiff.  Beat  the  flour  mixture  into  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  when  blended  add  the  whites.  Mix  well 
and  pour  into  a  large  pan.  Make  the  dough  only  14  of  an 
inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  toothpick  comes  out 
clean.  Cut  in  bars.  The  mixture  should  rise  rather 
"krinkley"  and  darken  slowly.  When  done  it  will  shrink 
slightly.  —Violet  E.  Walter.  " 

DATE  BARS 

1  cup  sugar  1  package  dates,  cut  fine 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


x  cup  liUUl 

1  cup  pecan  nuts 
%  cup  milk 


2  tablespoons  melted  butter 


Bake  in  bread  pans  cut  in  squares.  Roll  in  powdered 
sugar  while  hot. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Pruden. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  COOKIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar  4  cups  flour 

14  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

Mix  all  together,  knead  as  in  making  bread,  roll  in  long 
roll,  place  in  ice  box  over  night,  slice  down  in  morning  and 
bake. — Ethel  M.  Heppes. 


130  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

Vz  cup  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  2  oz.  Baker's  chocolate 

14  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  flour  Add  salt  and  vanilla 

Mix,  chill,  roll  very  thin  and  small,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven 


ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

%  cup  soft  lard       (         Cream 
%  cup  soft  butter  / 

Add 
1  cup  sifted  white  sugar  4*4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sifted  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 
3  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time           1  teaspoon  soda 
Sift  together  and  add                           1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mold  into  a  loaf  and  put  in  bread  pan  in  ice  box  over 
night.  In  the  morning  slice  thin  and  bake  in  hot  oven  15 
minutes.    Nuts  can  be  added. 

Bonnie  G.  Craig. 

BROWNIES 

2  squares  chocolate,  melted         2  eggs 

i/2  cup  butter       ,  V2  cup  flour 

>     Creamed       1  cup  nuts  (chopped) 
1  cup  sugar        J  x  teaspoon  vanilla 

Salt 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  in  quick  oven  for  25  minutes.  Cut 
in  squares  while  hot. — Mrs.  Leonard  Horr. 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES 

%  cup  shortening  scant  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  y2teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  IV2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  oatmeal  1  cup  raisins 
14  teaspoon  soda                       V2  cup  nuts 

Mix  soda  in  sour  milk  before  adding.  Drop  from  spoon 
on  greased  tins  a  little  distance  apart  and  bake  in  moderate 
heated  oven.    80  cookies. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Erion. 


COOK  BOPK  131 


CHOCOLATE  FRUIT  BARS 

2  eggs  beaten,  pinch  of  salt     1  level  cup  flour 

1  level  cup  of  sugar  2  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  tablespoons  boiling  Water         der 

1  level  cup  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  level  cup  dates  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

Break  eggs  into  bowl,  beat,  then  add  other  ingredients 
in  order  given,  sifting  flour  and  baking  power  together. 
Pour  in  shallow  greased  pan  and  cut  in  squares  when  cool. 

Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 

SIXTY  SUGAR  COOKIES 

114  cups  white  sugar  1/2  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  Snowdrift  shortening  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

Salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg  Flour  to  roll  soft 
Lemon  flavoring 

Mrs.  Gaylord. 

CRISPETTES 

2  cups  dark  brown  sugar         2  eggs 

1  cup  butter    (can   use   part  V2  teaspoon  soda  (sifted  with 

lard)  flour) 

4  cups  flour  (measure  after     1  cup  walnuts 

sifting)  ^teaspoon  salt,  if  lard  is  used 

take  more  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs,  then  flour.  Pack 
closely  in  a  bread  tin.  Chill  thoroughly,  slice  off  very  thin, 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Will  keep  indefinitely  in  air  tight 
tin. — Julie  M.  Way. 

EXCELLENT  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  VA  larSe  spoons  hot  water 

11/2  cups  sugar  31,4*  cups  flour 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  raisins 

Drop  from  spoon  in  greased  tins  (excellent) 

Louise  M.  Irwin. 


132 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

FUDGE  COOKIES 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  flour 

2  squares  chocolate  %  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  Nuts 

1  cup  sugar  Flavoring 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  together.    Add  other  ingred- 
ients and  cook  in  sheets. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Moore. 


DROP  CAKES 

1  egg  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  brown  or  white  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
14  teaspoon  of  cloves 

About  3  cups  of  flour  or  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. 
One  can  use  chopped  nuts  and  raisins  if  desired. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Browne. 


FRUIT  CUP  CAKES 

Cream  together  %  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar.  Add 
well  beaten  yolks,  2  eggs.  Sift  several  times  114  cups  pas- 
try flour  and  11,4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  add  alter- 
nately with  %  cup  of  milk.  Fold  in  well  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Add  14  teaspoon  orange  extract  and  1/2  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Add  1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats  and  1  cup  chopped 
dates,  floured.— Mrs.  Edna  M.  Dull. 

WALNUT  WAFERS 

1  egg  5  tablespoons  of  flour 

1  cup  sugar  flavoring 

pinch  of  salt  1  cup  nuts, 

chop  fine,  beat  well 

Mrs.  Allan  Eddy. 


COOK  BOOK  133 


DOUGHNUTS 

l*/£  cup  cane  sugar  2  eggs 

14  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  round  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 
Nutmeg.  Cut  out  and  let  stand  about  15  minutes  before 
frying. — Mrs.  Gaylord. 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

I  tablespoon  butter  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs 

Salt,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.    Flour  to  roll  out. 

— Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Herzog. 


MRS.  EGGERT'S  FAMOUS  DOUGHNUTS 

1  cup  sugar  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  milk  3  eggs 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Flour  to  make  soft  dough. 

Mrs.  Max  Eggert. 


DOUGHNUTS 

2  eggs  beaten  well  %  cup  cream    filled    to  brim 

V2  CUP  brown  sugar  with  milk 

1/2  cup  white  sugar  3  cups  flour  sifted  with 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  in  order  given,  adding  one  more  cup  of  flour  to 
make  dough  easy  to  handle.  It  may  not  take  the  entire 
last  cup  of  flour  because  the  dough  must  be  soft. 

— Mrs.  Wm.  Seymour,  Ji* 


134 


YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CORN  FLAKE  DROPS 


2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  cornflakes 


1  teaspoon  vanilla 

speck  of  salt 

Add  1  cup  nuts  if  desired 

Katherine  D.Dietrich. 


BOSTON  COOKIES 


1  cup  butter 
l!/2  cups  sugar 
3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  of  soda 

2  tablespoons  hot  water 


3*4  cups  flour 

salt 

1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

1  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup  raisins 


Mrs.  Harry  J.  Ilett. 


DROP  GINGER  COOKIES 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

y%  cup  iard 

Vz  cup  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  molasses 


5  cups  flour 
1  tablespoon  soda 
1  tablespoon  ginger 
3  eggs 

salt 

—Mrs.  H.  L.  Cary. 


DROP  GINGER  COOKIES 


1  heaping  cup  lard 

1  heaping  cup  brown  sugar 

1  full  cup  molasses  (New 
Orleans) 

2  well  beaten  eggs 
1  teaspoon  salt 


2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
V2  teaspoon  ginger 
%  cup  hot  water  with 
2  teaspoons  (level)  of  soda 

dissolved  in  it 
4  cups  of  sifted  flour 


Mix  all,  let  stand  over  night.    Drop  small  spoonful  in 
pan  and  bake  in  the  morning. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Hunter. 


COOK  BOOK  135 


GERMAN  COOKIES 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  aark  brown  sugar  scant  y%  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  dissolved  in  y%  of  a  cup  water 

%  teaspoon  cloves  added  drop  by  drop 

pinch  of  salt  1%  cup  Hour  or  a  little  more 

grated  rind  of  1  lemon  if  needed 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  water,  1  cup  of  flour,  then  1  cup  of  English  wal- 
nuts, sliced  fine,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  flour,  drop  on  bak- 
ing tins  rather  far  apart. — Madam  J.  W.  Marcusson. 

GINGER  CREAMS 

1  cup  molasses  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  warm  water  1  teaspoon  ginger 

^4  cup  melted  lard  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  cups  flour  before  sifting  1  teaspoon  soda 

.Put  spices  and  soda  in  last  cup  of  flour.  Put  in  dripping 
pan,  spred  about  an  inch  thick  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Frosting — Stir  powdered  sugar  into  milk  and  spread 
while  hot.  'Cut  in  squares. — Margaret  R.  Gowdie. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  1/2 teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sour  cream  ^teaspoon    soda  dissolved  in 

1  beaten  egg  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  flour 

Two  squares  bakers  chocolate  melted  in  hot  water  and 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Drop 
from  spoon  on  greased  tin  and  bake. — Mrs.  James  Kidston. 

GINGER  CAKES 

y%  cup  butter  %cup  boiling  water 

]/2Cup  brown  sugar  2  heaping  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  molasses  1  egg 

1  even  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

in  a  spoonful  warm  water  y2  teaspoon  ginger 

Cream  the  butter    and    sugar.     Add    molasses    with 
soda  stirred  in.    Then  boiling  water.    Add  egg  last. 

—Mrs.  Albert  Metzel. 


136  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  14.  cup  lemon  juice 

2Y2  tablespoons  flour  1  egg 

grated  rind,  2  lemons  1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  grated  rind,  lemon  juice  and 
egg  slightly  beaten.  Put  butter  in  sauce  pan;  when  melted 
add  mixture,  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling  point  is 
reached.  Care  must  be  taken  that  mixture  does  not  adhere 
to  bottom  of  sauce  pan.    Cool  before  spreading. 

— Helen  B.  Lanterman. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

V2  cup  sugar  2  pz.  bitter  chocolate 

%cup  cream  1  teaspoon  butter 

Boil  until  thick  stirring  constantly.  Let  cool  slightly 
and  spread. — Lucile  Rife. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

IV2  scant  tablespoons  boiled    1%  scant  tablespoons  water 

coffee  2  tablespoons  butter 

1/2  teaspoon    vanilla 

Place  over  the  fire  until  it  starts  to  boil,  then  turn 
at  once  on  3  tablespoons  cocoa  mixed  with  1  cup  confection- 
er's sugar.  Beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  which  it  does 
very  quickly. — Althea  L.  Godso. 

QUICK  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1  egg  white  1  square  of  chocolate 

1  cup  confectioner's  sugar  2  tablespoons  of  butter  (level) 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter,  add  to  egg  and  sugar  mix- 
ture, blend  well  and  flavor. — Mrs.  H.  H.  Holton. 


COOK  BOOK  13T 


CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

2A/2  cups  confectioner's  sugar 
2  squares  chocolate 
Jj  cup  of  butter 
cream 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter,  add  sugar    Thin  with  cream 
to  right  consistency  to  spread.  — Mrs.  0.  W.  Bartlett. 


ALLEGRETTI  FROSTING 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 
14  cup  sweet  milk 

Boil  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Beat  until  right 
consistency  to  spread  on  the  cake,  while  hot.  Melt  a  square 
of  chocolate  and  spread  over  white  icing. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Paine. 


MOCHA  FROSTING 

14  cup  of  butter 
1  square  melted  chocolate 
l!/4  cups  powdered  sugar 
%  cup  very  hot  strong  coffee 

Beat  in  order  given  until  creamy.  Will  keep  cake  moist 
for  days. — Mrs.  M.  W.  Heath. 


MAPLE  FROSTING 

1%  cups  brown  sugar 
14  cup  white  sugar 
}£  cup  water 

Boil  till  it  threads  and  beat  into  2  egg  whites.  Beat 
slightly,  place  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  granulates  at 
edge,  then  beat  till  cool— Mrs.  Russell  E.  Royer. 


138  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


MOCHA  ICING 


1  cup  confectioner'  s.  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  creamed 
4  teaspoons  cocoa 

Add  slowly  stong  hot  coffee  until  right  consistency  to 
spread. — Margaret  A.  Randall. 


CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
6  tablespoons  sugar 
5  tablespoons  water 
butter  size  of  hickory  nut 

Let  boil  until  it  begins  to  hair.  Take  off  the  fire  and 
beat  until  right  thickness  to  spread.  This  will  not  crack 
or  be  sticky. — Mrs.  Charles  Bennett. 

BROWN  SUGAR  FROSTING 

Boil  1  cup  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  water  together 
until  it  threads.  Beat  white  of  1  egg  stiff.  Pour  the  first 
mixture  over  egg  and  beat. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar,  small  piece  of  butter,  %  cup  milk,  vanilla. 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  beat  until  thick  enough  to 
put  on  cake. 


COOK  BOOK  139 


PRESERVES 

Will't  please  your  honor, 
Taste  of  these  conserves. 

RHUBARB  AND  RED  RASPBERRY  CONSERVE 

1  pt.  or  2  cups  red  rasberries 

1  pt.  or  2  cups  rhubarb  (cut  in  small  pieces) 

Pour  boiling  water  over  rhubarb  and  let  stand  4  min- 
utes, then  drain.  Ihen  put  berries,  rhubarb  and  2  cups 
sugar  together  and  stir  and  boil  2  minutes. 

Set  off  4  minutes. 

Then  add  2  more  cups  sugar  and  boil  2  minutes. 

Then  set  off  and  stir  once  in  a  while  until  half  cold — 
then  put  in  jars. 

(Pineapples  and  dried  apricots  conserve  is  good  too) . 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Hilbish. 

RHUBARB  AND  ORANGE  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  rhubarb,  peeled  and  cut  fine 

4  lbs.  sugar 

Mix  and  let  stand  over  night 

2  oranges   (including    skin),  cut  fine 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 

114  cups  walnut  meats,  chopped  fine 

Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  thick.    Seal  in  jars. 

This  recipe  makes  about  two  quarts. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Mer- 
rill. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  grapes  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

5  lbs.  sugar  3  oranges  sliced  very  thinly 

14  lb.  chopped  walnut  meats 

Cook  pulps  separately  and  strain  to  seed.  Cook  skins 
raid  other  ingredients  and  add  juice  from  pulps.  Boil  down 
14  and  pour  in  glasses. — Dorothy  Mavor. 

WATER  MELON  RIND  PICKLE 

For  one  melon,  peel  and  cut  into  cubes  the  rind  of  1 
melon  removing  all  red  portion.  Soak  over  night  in  water 
with  good  V2  cup  salt.  In  morning  drain  off  and  rinse 
well,  'ihen  cover  with  water  and  add  1  small  tablespoon  of 
alum,  cook  until  clear,  and  tender,  drain  and  add  7  lbs.  of 
fruit,  3V2  lbs.  sugar;  1  qt.  vinegar;  .2  teaspoons  each  cloves 
and  cinnamon  tied  in  a  bag.  Cook  in  with  fruit  until  done 
— about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Harry  W.  Dietrich. 


140  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CARROT  CONSERVE 

Cut  scraped  carrots  into  small  cubes,  cook  until  tender 
and  water  nearly  evaporated.  To  each  quart  of  cubes  allow 
214  cups  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  large 
lemon.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  lemon  juice  and  small 
quantity  of  water  remaining.  Then  add  carrots  and  cook 
until  syrup  thickens. — Mrs.  M.  W.  Heath. 


CHERRY  CONSERVE 

8  pound  of  cherries  V2  pound  English  walnuts 

6  pounds  of  sugar  1  package  of  raisins 

4  oranges 

— Mrs.  Myron  J.  Kelly. 


GRAPE  CONSERVE 

V2  peck  grapes  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Juice  of  2  oranges  1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

Remove  the-  skins  from  pulp,  Cook  pulp  until  soft, 
strain  to  remove  seeds. 

Place  strained  pulp  and  skins  in  preserving  kettle,  add 
lemon  and  orange  juice,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Measure  the  mixture  and  add  equal  quantity  of  sugar 
add  the  nuts  and  continue  cooking  until  thick. — Helen  C. 
Lemon. 


GRAPE  CONSERVE 

6  lbs.  Concord  grapes,  cooked  soft  and  rubbed  through 
colander. 

4  lbs.  white  sugar,  cook  twenty  minutes  then  add 
2  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
4  large  oranges,  chopped  fine,  also  thin  yellow  rind. 
Cook  until  it  jellies. 
Cherries  or  plums  may  be  used  instead  of  grapes. 

— Mary  H.  Morey. 


COOK  BOOK  141 


GINGER  PEAR 

6  lbs.  pears,  peeled  and  cut  in  fine  pieces  before  weighed. 
4!/2  lbs.  white  sugar. 

3  lemons  sliced  very  fine. 

4  oz.  green  ginger  root  scraped  and  chopped  fine. 

Cook  ginger  in  a  little  water  first,  add  other  ingredients 
and  cook  until  the  syrup  seems  nearly  ready  to  jell.  Lemon 
and  ginger  may  be  put  through  a  meat  grinder. 

— Mary  H.  Morey. 

PEAR  CONSERVE 

15  pounds  pears,  quartered,  cored  and  run  ti  rough  food 
chopper.  Do  not  peel  pears.  3  or  4  pounds  of  oviier  fruits : 
Seeded  raisins  and  4  oranges  with  rind  and  all  put  through 
the  food  chopper.  %  as  much-  sugar  by  weight  a,  all  fruit. 
Cook  fruit  soft  and  then  add  sugar  and  cook  rapidlj  stiri  ng 
and  skimming  frequently  for  V2  hour  or  longer  un  U  thick- 
ened or  jelly  like  when  cold.  Cool  a  bit  in  saucer  on  ice  tt 
test.  Then  put  into  glass  jars  and  seal. — Mrs.  John  Wind- 
sor. 

PIE  PLANT  CONSERVE 

1  quart  pie  plant  3  pounds  sugar 

3  oranges  sliced  and  peeled      One  cup  broken  walnut  meat* 
Rind  of  one  orange,  ground 

Cook  thirty  minutes  after  it  starts  to  boil.  Add  nuts 
and  rind  last. — Mrs.  Albert  Metzel. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

2  cups  cranberries  2  pears  V2  orange 

Grind  together  through  coarse  chopper.  Add  2*4  cupi 
sugar  and  cook  about  15  minutes. — Mrs.  Byron  Greenlee. 

AMBER  MARMALADE 

1  orange         1  lemon         1  grapefruit         Sugar  and  water 

Shave  the  orange,  lemon  and  grapefruit.  Reject  the 
seeds  and  cores.  Measure  the  fruit  and  add  to  it  three 
times  the  quantity  of  water.  Let  stand  over  night,  in  the 
morning  add  pint  for  pint  of  sugar  and  fruit  and  boil  slow- 
ly until  it  jellies.  Stir  as  little  as  possible  during  the  two 
or  more  hours  of  cooking  it  requires. — Mrs.  Harry  J.  Ilett. 


142  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


PIE  PLANT  MARMALADE 

Cut  ten  stalks  of  pie  plant  in  small  pieces  and  cook 
with  water  as  for  sauce.  Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  of 
sauce  until  all  used.  Add  one-half  cup  of  seedless  raisins 
and  one  orange  cut  in  small  pieces,  using  the  rind.  Boil  un- 
til like  jelly,  put  in  glasses  and  seal.  Delicious. — Minnie 
Wilmore. 


RHUBARB  MARMALADE 

6  oranges  1  lb.  rhubarb  Peel  of  42  oranges 

Cook  peel  until  tender  and  cut  into  small  strips.  Add  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  Cook  about  one  hour  stirring  con- 
stantly.— Mrs.  C.  B.  Dunlap. 

RHUBARB-ORANGE  MARMALADE 

3  lbs.  rhubarb  1/2  lb.  chopped  nuts 

4  lbs.  sugar  9  large  oranges 
1  lb.  figs  1  large  lemon 

Dice  rhubarb  and  figs.  Grate  oranges  and  lemon,  then 
peel  and  cut  the  pulp  into  pieces.  Add  sugar  and  nuts. 
Cook  until  right  consistency  for  spreading,  stirring  fre- 
quently.— Mrs.  H.  J.  Jacobi. 

PEACH  MARMALADE 

A  bowl  of  sliced  peaches  to  a  bowl  of  granulated  sugar 
and  3  oranges.  Peel  'and  skin  oranges  as  much  as  possible 
and  boil  a  few  minutes  in  a  cup  of  water.  Add  this  to  peach- 
es and  sugar  and  boil  slowly  for  2  hours.  Stir  often  so  it 
will  not  burn.  Boil  until  thick  like  preserves,  then  add 
seeded  raisins  and  nuts  to  suit  yourself.  3  oranges  is  to 
the  amount  of  5  lbs.  peaches. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Vial. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Cut  thinly  as  possible  the  rind  and  shred  the  pulp  of 
1  grapefruit  and  4  oranges.  Cover  with  3  pints  of  cold 
water.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  4  lbs. 
sugar.  Cook  slowly  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  put  in 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Shred  as  thoroughly 
as  possible.  Boil  till  it  thickens  on  a  spoon. — Margaret  R. 
Ginder. 


COOK  BOOK  143 


TOMATO  PRESERVES 

Scald  ripe  tomatoes,  skin  and  cut  up.  Juice  of  1  lemon. 
Let  boil  1/2  hour,  then  add  %  cup  sugar  to  each  cup  of  juice. 
Boil  very  slowly,  stirring  often,  until  a  rather  dark  reddish 
brown.  Seal  like  any  kind  of  jam  or  marmalade  in  jelly 
glasses  covered. — Mrs.  E.  0.  Horn. 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

3  cups  well  drained  berries,  1  cup  sugar.  Make  heavy 
syrup  of  1  cup  sugar,  add  berries  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add 
another  cup  of  sugar  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  a  third  cup 
of  sugar  and  cook  5  minutes.  This  method  prevents-  ber- 
ries from  having  strong  flavor  and  berries  retain  natural 
color. — Mildred  N.  Gibson. 


PEAR  AND  FIG  JAM 

4  lbs.  pears  ground  or  chopped 
3  lbs.  sugar  1  lb.  figs 

,  Cook  the  pears  in  their  own  juice  until  tender,  then  add 
the  figs  (chopped)  and  the  sugar.  Cook  until  well  blended. 
— Mrs.  Durland. 


RASPBERRY  AND  GOOSEBERRY  JAM 

12  cups  sugar  8  cups  gooseberries 

2  cups  water  4  cups  raspberries 

Cook  sugar  and  water  together  till  sugar  is  melted. 
Wash  fruit  and  put  in  kettle  with  syrup.  Boil  for  half  an 
hour.    Put  in  glasses. — Mrs.  0.  W.  Bartlett. 


144  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


SPICED  APPLE  JELLY 

1  peck  crab  apples  1  oz.  allspice 

6  cups  water  1/2  oz.  cloves 

8  cups  vinegar  1  oz.  cinnamon 

Boil  all  together  and  strain.    To  1  pint  of  juice  add  1  lb. 
of  sugar. — Helen  C.  Lemon. 


SPICED  APPLE  JELLY 

Over  apples  or  crabs  cut  as  for  ordinary  jelly  put  equal 
parts  vinegar  and  water.  Cook  as  usual  and  strain.  Add 
spices  in  bags,  boil,  remove  spices  and  proceed  as  in  ordin- 
ary apple  jelly.    Very  nice  with  meat. — Mrs.  Louise  Durland. 


SPICED  CRAB  APPLES 

Core  apples.  Add  one-half  as  much  sugar  as  fruit.  Let 
stand  over  night.  Add  cloves  and  a  little  vinegar  to  suit 
taste.    Stew  until  thick. — Laura  V.  Nickless. 


QUINCE  AND  CRANBERRY  JELLY 

Three  large  quinces;  one  quart  of  cranberries.  Wash 
and  quarter  quinces  and  remove  the  seeds;  pick  over  and 
wash  the  cranberries  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with 
the  quinces ;  add  cold  water  to  nearly  cover  fruit ;  cook  slow- 
ly until  soft.  Allow  juice  to  drip  through  a  jelly  bag.  Boil 
juice  five  minutes  and  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  heated 
sugar.  Boil  again  for  five  minutes,  skim  and  put  in  heated 
glasses  and  seal.  (A  beautiful  color  and  delicious) , — Bertha 
Oooley  Hansen. 


COOK  BOOK  145 


PICKLES 


Preserves  we  have  for  every  season,    . 
Well  within  the  bounds  of  reason, 
Pickles  too,  which  we  attest 
Will  give  to  any  meal  a  zest ! 

STUFFED  PICKLED  PEACHES 

Peel  and  halve  peaches  and  remove  stones.  Fill  the 
centers  wTith  citron  and  almonds,  chopped.  Place  the  halves 
together,  keeping  in  place  with  slivers  of  stick  cinnamon. 
Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar  using  2  lbs.  of  sugar  to 
each  3  quarts  of  vinegar  and  a  few  pieces  of  ginger  root. 
When  thick,  drop  in  peaches  and  cook  until  heated  through. 
Fill  jars  with  peaches  and  cover  with  syrup. — Bonnie  G. 
Craig. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CHERRIES 

Wash  and  pit  8  quarts  of  sour  cherries  and  add  IV2 
cups  of  vinegar.  Let  stand  24  hours  and  put  in  colander  to 
drain.  To  each  cup  of  fruit  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Put  all  back 
in  vinegar  and  let  stand  a  week,  stirring  well  each  morning. 
Store  away  in  a  covered  crock. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Hawkins. 

BEET  RELISH 

1  qt.  chopped  cooked  beets  1*4  cups  sugar 

1  qt.  chopped  raw  cabbage  1  tablespoon  salt 

1/2  cup  grated  horseradish 
Cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  can. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Innes. 

CORN  RELISH 

1  small  cabbage        1  large  onion  6  ears  corn 

2  tablespoons  salt  1  cup  sugar 

2  green  peppers 

1  red  pepper 
Remove  seeds 

2  tablespoons  flour  1/2  tablespoon  tumeric 
(4  tablespoon  Coleman's  mustard      1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

1  pint  vinegar 
Boil  corn  and  cut  from  cob.    Mix  all  ingredients.    Cook 
30  minutes.    Seal  in  jars. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Merriell. 

PEPPER  HASH 

1  doz.  red  peppers  1  qt.  vinegar  or  enough  to  cover 

1  doz.  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

2  small  cabbages  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed 
9  onions                               1/2  cup  salt 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar  y%  cup  horseradish 

Put  all  through  the  grinder.  Will  make  five  or  six 
quarts. — Mrs.  R.  B,  Battey. 


146 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Peel,  take  out  seeds  and  cut  in  strips;  sprinkle  with 
salt;  let  stand  over  night  In  the  morning  pour  off  and  let 
drain.  To  every  quart  of  white  vinegar  add  1  lb.  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  mustard  seed.  Boil  strips  in  vinegar  until  trans- 
parent; seal  while  hot. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Schwytzer. 


BEET  AND  CABBAGE  RELISH 

1  quart  each  cabbage  and  cooked  beets  chopped  fine 

2  cupf  uls  sugar  14  teaspoon  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  salt  V£  cup  prepared  horseradish 

1  cupful  vinegar 

Put  sugar  and  vinegar  with  J$  cup  water  in  basin  over 
fire.  Then  cool  and  pour  over  mixture  of  beets  and  cabbage. 
If  not  sweet  enough  add  some  sugar. — Mrs.  James  Kidston. 


RED  PEPPER  JAM 

12  large  sweet  red  peppers  1  pint  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  salt  3  cups  sugar 

Remove  seeds  from  the  peppers  and  put  through  the 
chopper.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours. 
Drain.  Put  in  kettle,  add  vinegar  and  sugar.  Boil  gently 
until  the  consistency  of  jam,  usually  about  one  hour.  Pour 
into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  This  recipe  makes  about  six 
glasses. — Margaret  T.  Vial. 


CHILI  SAUCE 

24  large  ripe  tomatoes  (chopped)  6  mangoes  (chopped) 
8  medium  sized  onions  (chopped)  8  tablespoons  sugar 
1  pint  vinegar  (very  best  cider)  4  tablespoonfuls  salt 

Boil  until  thick ;  pour  while  hot"  into  sterilized  bottles 
and  seal. — Mrs.  M.  W.  Heath. 


COOK  BOOK  147 


CORN  AND  CUCUMBER  RELISH 

1  doz.  ears  corn  cut  from  cob  6  small  red  peppers  chopped 

1  qt.  of  onions  chopped  1  qt.  ripe  cucumbers  chopped 

3  or  4  sweet  green  peppers  1  qt.  ripe  tomatoes 
chopped 

Dressing :  1  quart  sugar,  !/2  cup  salt,  2  quarts  vinegar, 
five  cents  worth  of  mustard  seed.  Boil  %  hours  and  bottle. 
F.  B.  Mallory. 

JUMBO  PICKLES 

50  jumbo  pickles  1,4  cup  whole  black  pepper 

14  cup  mustard  seed  %  cup  allspice 

6  corns  garlic 

Cut  pickles  in  slices.  Split  garlic  and  mix  with  spices. 
Arrange  pickles  in  crock.  Sprinkle  spices  and  garlic  be- 
tween layers  of  pickle.  Boil  together  5  minutes  7  lbs.  light 
brown  sugar,  3  pints  cider  vinegar.  Then  pour  over  pickles 
and  weigh  down  with  plate.  Next  day  add  %  cup  olive  oil 
and  2  tablespoons  Tarragon  vinegar.  Let  stand  4  days, 
then  remove  garlic  and  put  pickles  in  mason  jars. — Mrs. 
Samuel  F.  Nichols. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

18  large  ripe  tomatoes  2  teaspoonsful  salt 

6  onions  1  teaspoonf  ul  cinnamon 

3  green  peppers  1  teaspoonf  ul  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoonf  ul  allspice 

214  cups  vinegar  y%  teaspoonf  ul  cloves 

Chop  ingredients  fine.  Cook  an  hour,  then  add  sugar, 
vinegar,  and  spices  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Makes 
six  pints. — Myrtle  Tudor  Abrams. 

CABBAGE  RELISH 

Cook  together  1  pt.  vinegar  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  cup  sugar  y±  teaspoon  tumeric 

1  teaspoon  ground  mustard  1  teaspoon  salt 

When  cold,  pour  over  the  following:  3  pints  of  shred- 
ed  cabbage,  2  small  onions,  14  small  can  of  pimentos. — Mrs. 
F.  J.  Lewis.  -    -     .     . 


148  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

CHILI  SAUCE 

2  doz.  ripe  tomatoes 

4  large  onions  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  ginger 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

Peel  and  cut  up  tomatoes,  put  onions  and  peppers 
through  food  chopper,  add  spices  and  salt,  sugar  and  vine* 
gar.  Cook  rather  slowly  for  three  hours ;  stir  often  to  pre- 
vent burning. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Patterson. 

POND  LILY  PICKLES 

Peel  small  cucumbers  and  cut  in  fours  half  way 
through.  Let  stand  over  night  in  salt  water.  Drain  and 
rinse.  1  quart  vinegar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
mixed  spices.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  pickles  and  let  come 
to  a  boil. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Gibson. 

HODGE  PODGE  PICKLES 

Sliced  cucumbers,  1  gallon       White  sugar,  2  coffee  cups 
Shredded  caggabe,  1  gallon     Black  mustard  seed,  1  ounce 
Medium  sized  onions,  4  White  mustard  seed,  1  ounce 

Green  bell  peppers,  2  Celery  seed,  1  ounce 

Salt,  2  tablespoons,  (a  lit-        Vinegar 
tie  heaping) 

Take  cucumbers  about  half  as  large  as  for  ordinary 
slicing.  Slice  medium  thin  without  peeling.  Put  in  a  gran- 
ite pan  with  shredded  cabbage  and  stir  in  the  salt.  Peel 
onions  and  slice.  Remove  seeds  from  peppers  and  slice 
crosswise.  Add  this  all  together  with  sugar.  Pour  in 
enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  wet  thoroughly.  Set  on  stove 
and  when  hot  add  the  seeds.  Stir  all  together  thoroughly 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  More  sugar  can  be  added  if  you  wish 
it  sweeter.  While  hot  seal  air  tight  in  glass  fruit  jars. — 
Mrs.  Gough. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

1  peck  tomatoes  8  large  onions 

Slice  and  put  in  layers ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  morning  rinse  and  scald  in  1  pint  vinegar 
and  2  pints  water  until  yellow,  then  drain.  Into  */2  gallon 
of  vinegar,  put  3  pounds  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoons  whole 
cloves,  a  stick  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  mace.  Let  boil,  then 
add  tomatoes  and  onions  and  cook  a  short  time. — Mrs.  H. 
J.  Gibsn. 


COOK  BOOK  149 


MUSTARD  PICKLES 

2  green  peppers  1  qt.  green  sliced  tomatoes 

1  qt.  cut  cucumbers  1  qt.  small  onions 

3  heads  cauliflower 
Stand  in  brine  24  hours.    Heat  all  but  cucumbers.    Boil 
in  3  pints  of  vinegar  until  tender,  skim  and  drain. 

PASTE  FOR  SAME 
%  gallon  vinegar  *4  lb-  Colemen's  mustard 

1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  tumeric  powder 

8  small  cups  sugar 
Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  thickens,  pour  over  pick- 
les and  put  in  jars. — Helen  C.  Lemon. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

1  peck  green  tomatoes        2  lbs.  of  onions 
1  cup  salt  1  head  of  cabbage 

%  dozen  peppers 
Chop,  mix  and  let  stand  overnight.    Drain  and  put  on 
stove  to  cook  in  half  vinegar  and  half  water,  judge  amount 
to  taste.    Cook  until  tender.    Then  drain  off  the  liquid  and 
add  this  mustard  sauce : 

1  qt.  vinegar  1  teaspoon  tumeric 

%  lb.  mustard  1  cup  sugar 

%  lb.  flour  Sprinkle  of  paprika,  celery 

and  mustard  seed 
— Mrs.  Fred  Browne. 

SARATOGA  PICKLES 

25  small  cucumbers  10  onions,  size  of  walnuts 
Slice  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  3  hours.  Drain, 
pour  over  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  celery  seed,  1  tablespoon  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  mus- 
tard, and  1  teaspoon  of  tumeric.  Boil  15  minutes. — Laura  V. 
Nickless. 

OIL  PICKLES 

4  dozen  of  small  cucumbers  sliced  thin ;  14  the  quantity 
of  small  white  onions,  sliced.    Put  in  brine  for  3  hours. 

1  quart  vinegar,  y%  teaspoon  sugar,  V2  teaspoon  black 
mustard  seed,  %  teaspoon  yellow  mustard  seed,  y%  cup  salt, 
2  tablespoons  celery  seed,  and  1  cup  olive  oil. 

Mix  vinegar,  oil  and  spices.  Remove  onions  and  cu- 
cumbers from  brine  and  pack  in  jars.  Cover  with  the  spiced 
vinegar  and  oil  mixture. — Helen  B.  Lanterman. 


150  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

1  peck  green  tomatoes        7  large  onions 

Slice  and  put  in  layers  with  handful  of  table  salt  be- 
tween each  layer.     Soak  over  night.  Drain  and  cook  until 
tender  in  3  pints  of  vinegar.    Drain  and  pour  over  the  fol- 
lowing hot  syrup : 

31/)  pints  vinegar  1  cup  white  sugar 

3!/2  lbs.  brown  sugar        1  handful  stick  cinnamon 
3  teaspoons  whole  cloves 

Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  put  into  jars. — Mrs.  Wm.  Sey- 
mour, Jr. 


SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

*4  lb.  white  mustard  seed         1/2  pint  olive  oil 

%  lb.  black  mustard  seed         2  large  onions 

2  tablespoons  celery  seed  100  small  cucumbers 

(about  1  inch  thick) 

Slice  onions  and  cucumbers  and  stand  in  salt  water  over 
night  (2  cups  of  salt  for  this  amount).  Drain  thoroughly, 
mix  seeds  and  oil  and  distribute  between  onions  and  cucum- 
bers. Cover  with  good  vinegar,  and  they  are  made. — Louise 
H.  Armstrong. 


CHOPPED  PICKLE 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  2  quarts  onions 

2  quarts  green  peppers 

Chop  all  fine,  separately  and  mix,  adding  2  cups  of  salt. 
Let  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  drain  well,  add  % 
pound  of  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  of  cloves  and  allspice, 
1  cup  of  grated  horseradish.  Pour  over  it  all  3  quarts  of 
boiling  vinegar. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Classen. 


COOK  BOOK  151 


RHUBARB  AND  ONION  PICKLE 

1  quart  rhubarb  and  1  quart  onions,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
1  pint  vinegar.    Boil  20  minutes,  then  add : 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon  3  cups  sugar 

Boil  20  minutes.     Can  in  air-tight  glass  jars. — Mrs. 
Samuel  F.  Nichols. 


CHILI  SAUCE 

18  ripe  tomatoes  1  cup  sugar 

6  onions  2%  cups  vinegar 

3  green  peppers,  seeds  out  2  teaspoons  salt 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes  and  cook  with  onions  and  pep- 
pers until  tender,  onions  and  peppers  have  to  be  chopped 
rather  fine  before  cooking.  Then  add  the  sugar,  vinegar 
and  salt  and  cook  10  minutes  longer.  Seal  the  same  way  as 
canned  fruit. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Hacker. 


CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

2  lbs.  cucumbers  1  cup  vinegar  diluted  *4 

1  cup  sugar 
i/4  teaspoon  of  powdered  alum  to  each  jar. 

Cut  cucumbers  in  small  pieces,  soak  in  ice  water  2 
hours.  Pack  in  jars,  add  1  slice  of  red  pepper,  2  slices  of 
onion  and  a  little  celery.  Pour  hot  vinegar  mixture  over  to 
fill  jars  and  seal. — Ethel  M.  Heppes. 


CHOW  CHOW 

1  quart  each  of  small  whole  cucumbers,  large  cucum- 
bers sliced,  and  small  green  tomatoes,  cut  in  pieces;  1  quart 
of  button  onions;  1  large  cauliflower,  divided  into  small 
pieces ;  4  green  peppers,  hot,  cut  fine ;  1  red  pepper,  hot,  cut 
fine. 

Make  a  brine  of  4  quarts  of  water  and  1  pint  of  salt. 
Pour  on  vegetables  and  let  soak  24  hours.  Then  heat  this 
just  enough  to  scald  and  drain.— (Continued  on  next  page). 


152  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


MUSTARD  DRESSING 

6  tablespoons  mustard    1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  tumeric 

Mix  to  a  paste  with  cold  vinegar.  Add  more  vinegar  to 
make  2  quarts  in  all.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Add  vege- 
tables and  heat  them  through  well  but  do  not  boil. — Mrs. 
A.  M.  Hawkins. 


GREEN  TOMATO  AND  CARROT  RELISH 

V2  Peck  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night,  drain  after  letting  them  stand  in  water  1 
hour.  Use  coarse  knife  in  grinder  and  put  through  large 
head  of  cabbage,  6  onions,  6  sweet  peppers,  %  hot  pepper,  4 
stalks  celery,  1  dozen  carrots,  put  all  together. 

\y%  quarts  of  vinegar,  1  pint  of  water;  add  this  and  stir 
it  well;  then  add  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  2  cups  of  white 
sugar.  Cook  over  slow  fire  20  minutes.  Add  salt  to  taste 
and  2  teaspoons  of  tumeric  powder  and  boil  5  minutes.  Put 
vinegar  on  top  and  seal  tight  in  jars. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Erion. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES  (Spanish) 

1  quart  vinegar  2  teaspoons  celery  seed 
3  cups  sugar                          1  teaspoon  black  pepper 

2  teaspoons  ginger  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  mustard  seed    2  teaspoons  tumeric  powder 

Soak  3  quarts  of  sliced  cucumbers  in  salt  water  for  1 
hour  or  more;  drain;  put  in  glass  jars;  pour  over  then  the 
above,  which  has  been  brought  to  a  boil.  Seal.  Ready  to 
use  in  about  3  weeks. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Templeton. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

6  quarts  ripe  tomatoes        3  cups  vinegar 
4  tablespoons  salt  4  teaspoons  white  pepper 

3  tablespoons  mustard        2  teaspoons  red  pepper 
2  teaspoons  paprika 

Cook  tomatoes  and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  all  other 
ingredients  and  simmer  3  or  4  hours.  Cork  in  bpttles  and 
seal. — Mrs.  Geo.  M.  Vial 


COOK  BOOK  153 


RED  DRESSING 

1  cup  catsup  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chilli  sauce  1  pinch  red  pepper 

1  cup  Tarragon  vinegar  1  hard  boiled  egg 

1  pint  olive  oil  1  small  can  pimentoes 

Chop  egg  and  pimentoes.  Mix  all  together.  Put  into 
jar.    Keep  cool. — Grace  W.  Kellogg. 

SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

1  gal.  strong  vinegar  2  oz.  ground  mustard 

V2  CUP  salt  2  oz.  whole  white  mustard 

1  cup  sugar  2  oz.  green  ginger  root 

2  oz.  stick  cinnamon  Alum  size  of  hickory  nut 

1 1  drachm  saccarhine 
Scald  and  cool.     Scrub  cucumbers,  cover  with  boiling- 
water,  let  stand  until  cold,  drain  and  wipe.    Add  to  vinegar 
all  at  once.    Place  a  few  horseradish  roots  over  top  of  jar. — 
Grace  W.  Kellogg. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE  (For  Meats) 

3  teaspoons  mustard  2  teaspoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Mix  and  add : 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  water 

2  tablespoons  vinegar       1  tablespoon  soft  butter 

Paprika 
Cook  in  double  boiler  and  whip  until  thick.    Add  V2  CUP 
whipped  cream  when  ready  for  use. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE 

2  qts  sliced  green  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  qt.  sliced  cucumbers  3  tablespoons  white  mustard 
1  qt.  chopped  cabbage  seed  (or  mixed  spices) 

5  medium  sized  onions  3  tablespoons  salt 

6  sweet  peppers  1  quart  vinegar  (may  take 

3  lbs.  brown  sugar  (less  try  more) 

1  lb. 

Cook  about  15  minutes. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Vial. 

PEPPER  RELISH 

12  green  sweet  peppers  1  quart  vinegar 

12  red  sweet  peppers  2  cups  sugar 

12  medium  onions  2  tablespoons  salt 

Take  seeds  from  peppers  and  chop.  Chop  onions  sep- 
arately. Pour  boiling  water  over  chopped  peppers.  Let 
stand  5  minutes,  then  drain.  Pour  boiling  water  on  again, 
let  stand  10  minutes,  drain.  Add  rest  of  ingredients  and 
boil  15  minutes.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 


154  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


CANDY 


"Methought  I  saw    and   heard    it    all    in    a    dyspectic 
dream. " — Holmes. 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  FUDGE 

3  cups  sugar  %  cup  milk 

I3  cup  corn  syrup  IV2  squares  chocolate 

1  cup  nut  meats 

Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Let  cool,  then 
beat  until  creamy  and  add  nut  meats  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Turn  in  pan  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Beckley. 


BUTTERSCOTCH 

1  cup  sugar  14  CUP  niolasses 

V2  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  and  boil  until  brittle  in  cold 
water. — Alice  P.  Johnson. 


BOSTON  CREAM  CANDY 

3  lbs.  granulated  sugar  1  lb.  white  corn  syrup  (Karo) 

3  bottles  cream  (1%  pints) 

Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Cool  a  few 
minutes,  then  stir  until  nearly  ready  to  pour  in  buttered 
pan.  Add  1  tablespoon  vanilla  and  2  lbs.  English  walnut 
meats  (2  lbs.  in  shell) . — Mrs.  Squire. 


FRUIT  LOAF 

1  lb.  figs  1  lb.  prunes 

1  lb.  dates  1  lb.  raisins 

Stone  the  dates  and  prunes  and  seed  the  raisins.  Grind 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar  in  small  balls. — Mrs.  Harry 
Dietrich. 


COOK  BOOK  155 


LOAF  CANDY 

6  cups  white  sugar  1,4  cup  butter 

2  cups  corn  syrup  2  cups  black  walnut  meats 

214  cups  milk  2  cups  powdered  sugar 

Cook  sugar,  syrup,  and  milk  together  until  it  makes  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and 
stir  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  get  stiff ;  add  nuts  and  stir  as 
stiff  as  possible.  Mold  on  board  with  powdered  sugar  and 
make  a  loaf.  Put  in  deep  pan  and  let  stand  over  night. — Mrs. 
Gough. 

CRYSTALLIZED  POP  CORN 

Pop  pop-corn  in  kettle  with  mazola  and  salt. 

3  cups  sugar,  1/2  cup  water,  boil  until  spins  a  thread 
when  tried.  Divide  and  stir  through  pop-corn  until  each 
grain  is  crystalized.  "More  you  eat,  the  more  you  want." — 
Maud  M.  Wakefield. 

ORANGE  STRAWS 

Remove  peel  in  lengthwise  sections  and  cut  out  most  of 
the  inner  skin.  Boil,  changing  the  water  frequently,  until 
the  water  is  clear.  (This  takes  an  hour  or  more.)  Then 
drain  and  cool  and  cut  in  strips,  not  too  narrow,  as  it  breaks 
easily.  Make  a  rich  syrup  as  for  preserves  and  cook  the 
peel  in  that  until  it  is  clear.  Then  roll  in  sugar. — Louise  H. 
Armstrong. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  CANDY 

2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar        %  lb.  butter 
i/2  cup  corn  syrup  2  tablespoons  water 

1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Put  on  slow  fire  and  do  not  stir,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil 
add  pinch  of  cream  of  tatar.  Cook  until  it  cracks  good,  add 
vanilla. — May  W.  Holman. 


156  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


FONDANT  FOUNDATION  OF  CREAM  CANDIES 

Add  1  cup  of  water  to  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar.  Stir 
over  a  slow  fire  until  dissolved,not  an  instant  longer.  With 
a  sponge  or  soft  cheese  cloth  wipe  the  crystals  from  side  of 
pan  and  spoon ;  if  allowed  to  fall  in  syrup  it  will  cause  granu- 
lation. 

Boil  syrup  without  motion  or  stirring  until  a  little 
dropped  in  cold  water  forms  soft  ball.  Pour  immediately  on 
greased,  large  platter.  Watch  carefully.  When  cool  enough 
to  bear  finger  in  it,  begin  to  stir  rapidly  and  constantly  with 
wooden  spoon  until  a  thick  creamy  mass  is  formed.  Take 
this  in  hands  and  knead  as  bread.  It  will  soon  become  soft 
and  smooth.  Put  in  bowl  and  cover  with  damp  cloth.  Next 
day  it  is  ready  to  be  formed  into  various  candies.  This 
makes  1  pound. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Tewksbury. 


SALTED  ALMONDS 

Blanch  y±  lb.  °f  Jordan  almonds  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Put 
%  cup  of  olive  oil  in  a  very  small  saucepan.  When  hot,  put 
in  14  of  the  almonds  and  fry  until  delicately  browned,  stirr- 
ing to  keep  almonds  constantly  in  motion.  Remove  with  a 
spoon  or  small  skimmer,  taking  up  as  little  oil  as  possible. 
Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Repeat  until 
all  are  fried.  It  may  be  necessary  to  remove  some  of  the 
salt. — Mrs.  R.  V.  Thomas. 

PENUCHE  CANDY 

3  cups  granulated  sugar        1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  milk  %  cup  dark  Karo  corn  syrup 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  firm  soft  ball  when  tried  in  water. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  %  teaspoon  vanilla  and  nut  meats. 
Beat  until  very  stiff. — Myrtle  Tudor  Abrams. 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

Put  into  a  sauce  pan  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  water,  2 
tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  "butter. 
Boil  steadily  until  a  little  dropped  into  water  is  brittle.  Do 
not  stir,  remove  from  fire  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice, 
turn  into  a  buttered  pan  and  mark  into  squares. — Mrs.  R,  W. 
Classen. 


COOK  BOOK  157 


CANDY 

2  cups  sugar  14  cup  syrup  (Karo) 

%  cup  water 

Boil  mixture  until  it  threads  well,  then  pour  on  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  add  nuts. — Mrs.  Squire. 

SUGARED  WALNUTS 

To  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  add  4  tablespoons  of 
water  and  2  cups  of  walnut  meats.  Boil  sugar  and  water 
until  syrup  spins  a  thread,  then  add  the  walnut  meats  and 
stir  until  sugar  hardens  on  the  nuts.  A  little  salt  improves 
the  taste. — Mrs.  Squire. 


MAPLE-NUT  CREAMS 

1  cup  cream  %  cup  maple  syrup 

2  cups  granulated  sugar        %  cup  corn  syrup 

1/2  cup  nuts    • 

Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Take  off  fire, 
&dd  nuts  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  grain.  Pour  out  on  but- 
tered platter. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Battey. 


CREAM  PEPPERMINT 

1  cup  of  sugar  wet  with  3  tablespoons  of  water,  ^4  tea- 
spoon glycerine,  7  drops  of  essence  of  peppermint.  Put  in 
agate  pan  on  slow  fire  and  as  sugar  melts,  beat  for  several 
minutes  or  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Drop  by  teaspoonful 
on  parafine  paper. — Mrs.  Green. 


CANDIED  GRAPE  FRUIT  PEEL 

Put  on  in  cold  water,  boil  20  minutes,  drain,  cover  with 
hot  boiling  water,  boil  20  minutes,  cool,  2  cups  sugar  and 
%  cup  of  water.  Make  thick  syrup.  Just  before  it  hairs, 
drop  in  fruit,  a  little  at  a  time.  Boil  3  to  5  minutes.  Roll 
while  hot  in  granulated  sugar.  Put  on  parafine  paper  to  dry. 
— Mrs.  Green. 


158 YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIARY 

BEVERAGES 

"I  like  a  teacup,  a  little  china  teacup, 
Filled  to  the  brim  with  good,  strong  tea ; 
I  like  another  one,  just  like  t'other  one, 
To  give  to  a  friend  who  is  fond  of  me." 

COFFEE  (Percolator) 

Allow  1  rounded  tablespoon  of  coffee  to  every  cup  of 
water.  The  cups  of  cold  water  are  measured  and  poured  into 
the  lower  part  of  the  percolator ;  the  coffee  in  the  upper  part 
called  the  filter  cup.  Place  the  spreader  plate  in  place,  cover, 
and  allow  to  percolate,  until  the  water,  which  has  changed 
from  a  light  to  a  dark  brown,  has  become  foamy,  or  has  the 
appearance  of  boiling.  Remove  from  the  heat  at  once  and 
serve.    Use  ground  but  not  pulverized  coffee. 

FRENCH  DRIP  COFFEE 

Fine-ground  coffee  is  placed  in  upper  part  of  coffee  pot 
between  spreaders.  Freshly  boiling  water  is  then  poured 
over  it  and  drains  into  the  lower  part  of  coffee  pot.  After- 
dinner  coffee  is  made  by  pouring  the  liquid,  which  has  filt- 
ered through  the  coffee  into  the  lower  receptacle,  back 
through  the  coffee  a  second  and  sometimes  a  third  time. 
Keep  the  lower  part  of  coffee  pot  in  boiling  water  so  that  the 
liquid  will  not  become  cool  through  the  process. 

TEA  (General  Rule) 

1  teaspoon  of  tea  to  1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Place  the  tea  in  a  clean,  dry,  heated  teapot.  Have  fresh 
water  heating  and  when  the  boiling  point  is  reached  and  the 
first  bubbling  begins,  pour  immediately  over  the  tea.  Allow 
to  steep  for  5  to  6  minutes,  but  never  boil. 

If  strong  tea  be  desired  it  should  be  made  with  a  larger, 
portion  of  tea — not  a  longer  period  of  steeping. 

COCOA 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  tablespoons  cocoa 
2  cups  boiling  woater  2  tablespoons  sugar 
Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  mix  the  sugar  and  co- 
coa, stir  in  the  boiling  water  gradually,  and  let  boil  5  or  6 
minutes  ;turn  the  liquid  into  the  hot  milk,  and  beat  with  a 
whisk,  or  egg  beater,  5  minutes.  Serve  with  additional 
sugar  and  cream  if  desired. 


COOK  BOOK  159 


CHOCOLATE 

2  ounces  chocolate     4  tablespoons  sugar 

3  cups  scalded  milk  1  cup  boiling  water 

Break  the  chocolate  into  pieces  and  melt  over  hot 
water ;  add  the  sugar  and  boiling  water  and  stir  until  smooth 
and  glossy ;  let  cook  for  5  or  6  minutes ;  add  part  of  the  milk, 
and  when  well  mixed  pour  into  the  rest  of  the  milk;  let 
stand  over  the  fire  5  or  6  minutes,  beating  meanwhile  with  a 
whisk,  or  egg  beater,  to  make  frothy  and  to  prevent  a  skin 
from  forming  on  the  surface. 

CHOCOLATE  MALTED  MILK 

2  level  tablespoons  Malted  Milk 

2  teaspoons  syrup  (cocoa  or  any  flavor  desired) . 

1  cup  milk  (cream  added  if  desired) . 

Mix  well  in  shaker  and  serve. 

LOGAN  BERRY  PUNCH 

y%  tablespoon  orange  pekoe  tea        V2  cup  boiling  water 
1  cup  loganberry  juice  Juice  2!/2  Sunkist  lemons 

%  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

1  pint  ginger  ale  Small  bunch  fresh  mint 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tea  and  let  stand  10 -minutes, 
then  strain.  When  cool  add  loganberry  juice,  Sunkist  lemon 
juice,  sugar  and  salt,  and  chill.  Pour  over  block  of  ice  in 
punch  bowl,  add  ginger  ale,  put  in  mint  sprigs  loosely,  and 
serve.    Make  4  glasses ;  12  punch  glasses. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

Wash  and  stem  grapes.  Put  them  into  a  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water.  Crush  grapes  with  a  masher  to  let  the  juice 
flow  freely.  Heat  slowly.  When  boiling,  remove  and  strain 
through  white  flannel.  Measure  juice  and  use  1-5  as  much 
sugar  as  juice.  Put  into  kettle  and  boil  5  minutes.  Pour 
into  sterilized  bottles  while  hot  and  seal. 

Remove  any  scum  which  may  arise  while  boiling. 

RASPBERRY  JUICE 

Pick  over  and  wash  2  quarts  of  raspberries.  Cover  and 
let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  add  %  CUP  of  c°ld  water. 
Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  simmer  20  minutes. 
Strain  through  double  cheese-cloth,  return  to  heat,  and  when 
boiling,  fill  sterilized  bottles  and  seal. 

If  desired  sweetened,  then  add  %  as  much  sugar  as 
juice  and  boil  5  minutes,  skimming  carefully. 


160  YOUNG  WOMAN'S  AUXILIAKY 


Miscellaneous 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

Butter „ „ 2  solid  cups  equal  1  lb. 

Butter. _ _ :_ 2  tablespoons  equal  1  oz. 

Butter „ 4  tablespoons  equal  14  cup 

Coffee _ _ 4  cups  equal  1  lb. 

Dry  and  solid  material... . _ 8  tablespoons  equal  1  cup 

Eggs _ 10  shelled  equal  1  lb. 

Flour. „ „ 4  tablespoons  equal  1  oz. 

Spice 2  tablespoons  ground  equal  1  oz. 

Gills „ _ _ 2  equal  1  cup 

Sugar. . _ 2  cups  granulated  equal  1  lb. 

Sugar 2%  cups  powdered  equal  1  lb. 

COFFEE  FOR  100 

3  lbs.  of  coffee  ground  medium 
3  whole  eggs  and  shells,  or  9  shells 
27  or  28   quarts  of  water 

Stir  coffee,  egg  shells  and  enough  cold  water  to  moisten 
in  large  bowl.  Let  stand  covered  while  bringing  the  28  qts. 
to  boiling  point.  Add  coffee  mixture  in  cheese  cloth  bag  or 
bags,  which  must  be  loosely  filled.  Boil  briskly  for  5  minutes, 
simmer  10.  Do  not  boil  longer.  Turn  gas  to  lowest  point, 
add  2  or  three  cups  of  cold  water  to  settle  before  serving. — 
Mrs.  John  Mavor. 

CAKE  FOR  ONE  HUNDRED 

5  lbs.  butter  or  substitute         IV2  dozen  eggs 
36  cups  flour  or  more  5  lbs.  granulated  sugar 

2  oz.  bottle  vanilla  4  quarts  milk 

FROSTING 

1  lb.  baker's  chocolate      6  lbs.  confectionery  sugar 
Mix  wilh  milk  or  cream. — Mrs.  Janet  D.  Emery 


COOK  BOOK  161 


SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  250  (12  qts.) 

2  doz.  eggs  •  1  lb.  butter  or  1  cup  mazola  oil 

4  cups  sugar  4  qts.  milk 

1  cup  salt  (or  more)  4  qts.  water 

8  cups  flour  14  lb.  mustard 
8  cups  vinegar 

Thin  with  whipped  cream  or  for  1000  Island. — Mrs. 
Gaylord. 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING  (For  250) 

To  salad  dressing  given  above  add,  chopped : 

6  bottles  chili  sauce  1  doz.  small  green  peppers 

1  qt.  small  cucumber  pickles       2%  doz.  hard-boiled  eggs 

— Mrs.  Gaylord. 

SALAD  DRESSING  (For  100) 

6  eggs  2  cups  vinegar 

16  teaspoons  sugar  2  cups  flour 

6  teaspoons  mustard  14  lb.  .melted  butter 
8  teaspoons  salt 

Hot  water  to  make  4  quarts.     When  cooled  beat  in  1 
quart  of  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Janet  D.  Emery. 


162 YOUNG  ROMAN'S  AUXILIARY 


AFTERWORD 


The  Young  Woman's  Auxiliary  of  the  Congregational 
church  offers  in  co-operation  with  other  women  of  the 
church,  this  collection  of  favorite  recipes  in  the  hope  it  may 
contribute  something  toward  the  now  popular  movement 
for  better  homemaking.  Each  recipe  has  been  conscientious- 
ly tested  by  the  one  whose  name  is  attached  and  her  reputa- 
tion is  pledged  to  its  excellence. 

Of  necessity  all  duplicate  recipes  had  to  be  eliminated. 
If  the  editors  have  erred  at  any  point,  kindly  accept  the 
spirit  in  place  of  the  deed.  And  our  advertisers,  who  have 
co-operated  with  us  so  generously,  in  making  this  book  pos- 
sible, they  deserve  the  confidence  as  they  have  the  thanks 
of  all  who  find  merit  in  this  volume. 


INDEX 


Soups - - 5  to  10 

Fish 11  to  14 

Meats 15  to  32 

Vegetables . 33  to  37 

Breakfast  Dishes  _ - 38  to  41 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 42  to  52 

Luncheon  Dishes ~ 53  to  60 

Bread 61  to  76 

Desserts  and  Ices 77  to  99 

Pies , 100  to  107 

Cakes  and  Cookies _ 108  to  138 

Preserves _ 139  to  144 

Pickles 145  to  153 

Candy , 154  to  158 

Beverages 158  to  159 

Miscellaneous 160  to  161 


Frocks 


Gowns 


A  DRESS  to  express  personality,  to  enhance 
one's  looks,  to  flatter  and  to  please,  is  the 
quest    of    every    xtfoman.       Because    of   me 
brilliancy)  of  our  collections  it  is  fair  to  assume  mat 
every  tppe  of  dress  finds  expression  Kere    in    such 
v*arie$    as    to    make   selection    comparatively    easy. 
My  shop  is  not  an  expensive  one 

GRATHWOHL 


Coats 

Wraps 
Lingerie 


12th  Floor 

1214  STEVENS 

BUILDING 

CHICAGO 


SadieM .  Gratrvwohl 

Formerly  Bir?er 
Marshall  Field  Co. 


Shopbj)  fhe  Bright  Ligkts 
of  Fifth  Avenue 


^►Hgolgl+M. 


Did  2?ou  know  there  are  very  few 
tilings  you  cannot  bu;9  on  Fifm 
Avenue?  On  this  street  you  will 
find  Houses  For  Sale,  Dry  Goods, 
Hardware,  Shoes,  Men's  and  Wo- 
men's Clothing,  Automobiles, 
Candies,  Drugs,  Banks,  Batteries, 
Barber  Shops,  Lunches,  Plumbing, 
and  even  a  ticket  to  me  Picture 
Show. 

When  you  shop  on  Fifth  Avenue,  you 

get  what  you  want,  get  it  when 

you  want  it,   and  get  it 

at  a  fair  price. 


Fifth  Avenue  Merchants 


%0&0&80®&%X&0&&^^ 


f 


The  best  of  everything 
in  our  line:  Butter, Eggs, 
Cottage  Cheese  and 
Ice  Cream  made  of 

CREAM. 


LaGrange  Creamery  Go. 

Phone  LaGrange  212 
118  N.  KENSINGTON  AVENUE 


<&$j®&^^ 


"WTE  CHIROPRACTORS  work  with  the  subtle  substance  of  the 
^^  soul.  We  release  the  prisoned  impulse,  the  tiny  rivulet  of 
force,  that  emanates  from  the  mind  and  flows  over  the  nerves  to  the 
cells  and  stirs  them  into  life.  We  deal  -with  the  magic  power  that 
transforms  common  food  into  living,  loving  thinking  clay;  that  robes 
the  earth  with  beauty,  and  hues  and  scents  the  flowers  with  the  glory 
of  the  air.  In  the  dim,  dark,  distant  long  ago,  when  the  sun  firs* 
bowed  to  the  morning  star,  this  power  spoke  and  there  was  life;  it 
quickened  the  slime  of  the  sea  and  the  dust  of  the  earth  and  drove 
the  cell  to  union  with  its  fellows  in  countless  living  forms.  Through 
aeons  of  time  it  finned  the  fish  and  winged  the  bird  and  fanged 
the  beast.  Endlessly  it  worked,  evolving  its  foms  until  it  produced 
the  crowning  glory  of  them  all.  With  tireless  energy  it  blows  the 
bubble  of  each  individual  life  and  then  silently,  relentlessly  dissolves 
the  form,  and  absorbs  the  spirit  into  itself  again.  And  yet  you  ask 
"Can  Chiropractic  cure  appendicits  or  the  'flu'?"  Have  you  more 
faith  in  a  knife  or  a  spoonful  of  medicine  than  in  the  power  that  an- 
imates the  living  world? 

-J.  G.  G. 

F.    M.    ¥ITT-D.  C 

Palmer  Graduate 

m 

12  Harris  Ave.  La  Grange,    ILL. 


For  The  Many  Salad  Recipes  Contained 

In  This  Book,  The  Best  Results  Will  Be 

Obtained   By  Using 


MAYONNAISE 


&a&®o®&&$Q&o®x^^ 


Fiffli  Avenue  Greenhouses 

FRANK  NIELSON,  Proprietor 


Flowers  and  Plants  at  all  times 


CHOICE  NURSERY  STOCK 


Norn\  Fifn\  Avenue  Phone  1733 


3&  SUPERB  f  WW 600T6Ry  ^e- 


FOfc  ^  MEN   ->  WOMEN  ^  CHILDREN 


Compliments  of 

Mechanical   Rubber 
Company 

CHICAGO 


3»»»»aee»»»»»M»»»»»»»»»»»M»MM»M»»»»Xe»R«9»K«aK««8MK 


m 


'*< 


US', 


In  All  Cooking  and  Baking 

Whenever  the  recipe  calls  for  milk,  butter  or  eggs,  use  BOW- 
MAN DAIRY  COMPANY'S  products  and  your  quality  is 
guaranteed. 

BOWMAN'S  MILK  is.  rich  in  cream;  it  is  whole  milk — nothing 
is  taken  from  it  and  nothing  added  to  it.  Perfect  pasteurization 
and  careful  cooling  make  it  absolutely  safe  and  pure. 

BOWMAN'S  PURE  CREAM  BUTTER  is  churned  only 

from  pure,  rich,  fresh  pasteurized  cream.  It  adds  a  delicious  flavor 
mat  is  not  found  in  ordinary  butter. 

BOWMAN  DAIRY  COMPANY  inspect  and  warrant  the 
absolute  freshness  of  fine  quality  eggs. 

Our  attentive  salesman  will  be  glad  to  serve  you. 


Bowman  \f in. 
DAIRY  COMPANY     I'lliJV 


Phone  Oak  Park  82 


BURLINGTON 
AVENUE 

'The  State  Street  of  LaGrange" 


Every  day  Burlington  Avenue  is  becoming 
more  popular  -with  the  shoppers  of  LaGrange 
and  the  community.  Every  day  the  people 
of  the  village  realize  more  fully  that  on 
Burlington  Avenue  they  can  find  what  they 
want  with  better  service  and  at  a  fair  price. 

If  you  are  not  one  of  those  who  are  shop- 
ping on  Burlington  Avenue,  then  you  are 
the  loser,  and  you  will  never  know  what 
you  have  lost  until  you  make  this  street 
your  shopping  center. 


Burlington    Avenue     Business    Men 


Purity 

Cleanliness 

Wnolesomeness 

When  milk  measures  up  to 
these  standards  it  is  your 
most  necessary  food. 

OURS  DOES 

MANDEL  BROS.  DAIRY 

PHONE  LA  GRANGE   1715-Y-2 


M.  H.  Koshgarian 

NATIVE   CLEANERS 
AND  REPAIRERS 


Oriental   and  Domestic  Rugs 

Cleaning  Portiers     Imported  Rugs 


TELEPHONE 
-  LA  GRANGE  243  - 

17  Hillgrove  A^e. 

LAGRANGE,   ILLINOIS 


When  All  Recipes  Fail 


THEN  TRY 


Larsen's  Most  Excellent  Bakery 


603  Hillgrove  Avenue 
PKone  619 


Polivka  Bros.  Dairy 

Pastuerized  Cream  and  Milk 

For  Whipping  Cream  that 
whips   call    1156   LaGrange 

Geiger  s 

"The  Store  of  the  Big  Cone" 

ICE   CREAM   AND   ICES 

No  order  too  large  and    none  too  small 

Phone  671,  LaGrange  410  Burlington  Ave. 


LaGrange  Greenhouse 

An  order  accepted  is  a  promise  kept,  whether  it  is 
a  single  plant,  a  decoration  for  your  table,  a  wedding 
bouquet,  or  an  expression  of  sympathy  for  a  de- 
parted friend. 

faShfol Service     ThomaS   GaiTatt  UGmge 


CASH  MARKET 

WE  ARE  THE  MARKET  THAT 
FURNISHED 

..  Those     Steaks  . . 

FOR  THAT 

Sunday  School  Dinner 


The  Thinking  Fellow   Calls 
A    Yellow 

PHONE  LAGRANGE  2500 

Call  a  YELLOW  morning,  noon  or  night,  for  business  and 
social  calls  and  you  can  rest  assured  of  prompt  and  reliable  ser- 
vice. 

In  sending  small  children  to  school  or  parties,  you  can  trust 
them  to  our  care  without  worry. 

.  .  .  Trunks  and  Baggage  Transferred  .  .  . 

The  Thinking  FelW  Calls  A  Yellow 

-  HAIL    THEM    ANYWHERE  - 

—PHONE  LA  GRANGE  2500— 

Yelloxtf     Cab     Company 

WM.    C    BONESS,  Manager. 


J.  Hartronft  and  Son 

Birthday  Cards  Magazines 

Christmas  Cards  Stationary 

Fountain  Pens 

Phone  LaGrange  2197 

The  Store  of  Quality 

Vlanos  Bros.  Fruit  House 

26  W.  Burlington  Avenue 

LaGrange,  Illinois 


For  The  Best  Milk  and  Cream 

order  from 

W.  A.  Croak 

417  S.  Catherine  Ave.  Phone  238 

—  New  and  Modern  Equipped  Dairy  — 

W.  A.  Fowler  Paper  Co. 
WHOLESALE  PAPERS 

Secure  Estimates  on  Direct  Mill  Shipments 
Chicago  Resident  Partner 

Harrison  0136  LaGrange  1487 


.-..'..*»,-..■%.  *»«*►.  *».*.  .*,. ~, «~,  <*,.*.. ~. . ~. .~>r><~.<~». *.<*.<*><*. .*»«~. .%«%<*..*>•*►.'.  ('m*><  v.*.  ,~„'  ,,%<*, <~n-„-t4*n~t  <*AflflQf 


The  Illinois  Theatre 

PHONE  LaGRANGE  173 


3»»»»»MC9»»»»»»»»»»»»»X<^«<^««C8»»»C8»»SCf<^^ 


Calendar  Avenue 


Is  to  La  Grange  what  State  Street  is  to  Chicago,  Fifth 
Avenue  to  New  York,  Bond  Street  to  London  and 
the  Champs  De  Ely  sees  is  to  Paris. 

The  very  finest  types  of  stores  are  maintained  here, 
constantly  catering  to  the  most  discriminating  trade. 

For  the  Epicure  it  is  a  treat  to  be  able  to  secure  the 
delicacies  that  domestic  and  foreign  markets  provide 
at  all  seasons  of  the  year  at  prices  that  appeal  to  that 
class  of  people  who  are  always  fastidious  in  their 
tastes,  and  at  the  same  time  appreciate  the  purchas- 
ing power  of  the  dollar. 

Practically  every  commodity  that  is  needed  in  the 
household  is  gladly  offered  for  your  approval  by  the 
most  painstaking,  courteous  salespeople. 

MAY  WE  HAVE  THE  PLEASURE  OF 
SERVING  YOU. 

THIS  TIME  WE  SUGGEST,  NEXT 
TIME  YOU'LL  INSIST 


