.  .  .  THE  •  •  • 


Federation 
Cook  Book 


.  .  A  Collection  of  .  . 

Tested  Recipes 

....   Contributed  by  the   .... 

Colored  Women 

of  the  

State  of  California 


....  By  .... 

MRS.  BERTHA   L.   TURNER 

State  Superintendent,  Domestic  Science 
PASADENA,   CALIFORNIA 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


Dedication 


O  ye  tired  and  weary  house-wives 
O  ye  never-tiring  house-wives 
Here's  a  solving,  solving,  solving, 
Of  the  daily  eating  problem. 
Here's  an  answer,  answer,  answer. 
To  the  oft-repeated  question 
To  the  quite  perplexing  question 
That  confronts  us,  that  annoys  us. 
What  shall  we  eat  ?    What  shall  we  eat  ? 
Here's  a  book  of  tested  cooking, 
Here's  a  book  of  tried  proportions 
Kindly  given  by  our  women, 
Thank  we  them  for  their  donation 
Thank  them  for  this  little  cook  book. 
Dedicate  it  to  these  women 
To  these  helpful,  trusty  women. 
Take  it  to  your  friends  and  neighbors, 
May  it  prove  a  blessing  to  you. 


Cookery  jf  ingles 

Dedicated  to  the  Federation  Cook  Book 

By  Mrs.  Katherine  D.  Tillman,  A.  M. 

Chairman  Ways  and  Means 
National  Association  Colored  Women' s  Clubs 

She  could  draw  a  little,  paint  a  little, 

Talk  about  a  book. 
She  could  row  a  boat,  ride  a  horse. 
But  alas  she  couldn't  cook. 

She  could  gown,  she  could  go, 

She  could  very  pretty  look 
But  her  best  beau  he  was  poor 

And  he  couldn't  hire  a  cook. 
When  he  learned  the  fatal  truth 

His  flight  he  quickly  took, 
And  his  girl  is  single  still, 

Because  she  couldn't  cook! 
***>?***** 

Believe  not  the  love  tales 

You  find  within  a  book 

Love's  fate  often  turns  on, 

The  skill  of  the  cook 
Before  a  man  marries 

'Tis  the  gown  or  the  look, 
But  after  the  wedding 
He  looks  for  a  cook. 

'Tis  said  to  man's  heart, 

The  shortest  route  took 
Is  reached  through  the  region, 

Controlled  by  the  cook! 
Go  forth  then  a  blessing, 

You  dear  little  book, 
And  happiness  ever 
Attend  the  good  cook. 


FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 


Menu 


Breakfast 

Fruit 

Oatmeal  and  Cream 

Panned  Bacon  Corn  Muffins 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 
Boston  Steak 
Rice  String  Beans 

Beet  Salad 
American  Ice  Cream  Wafers 

Supper 

Cold  Sliced  Beef  Potato  Salad 

Sandwiches  Tea 

KATE  MANN  BAKER. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Drain  the  liquor  from  2  cans  of  corn  (or  use  12  green 
ears)  and  chop  the  kernels  fine.  Put  them  over  the  fire  with 
a  pint  of  water  and  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Strain  through 
a  fine  strainer  and  return  to  the  fire.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Cook  together  two 
tablespoons  each  of  butter*  and  flour  and  when  they  are 
blended,  pour  upon  them  3  cups  of  milk  and  a  cup  of  cream 
to  which  a  generous  pinch  of  baking  soda  has  been  added. 
Stir  until  smooth  and  thick,  add  the  corn  puree,  and  as  soon 
as  the  mixture  is  scalding  hot,  take  from  the  fire  and  pour 
gradually,  beating  all  the  time,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Serve  immediately. — KATE  MANN  BAKER. 

Boston  Steak 

Select  good  thick  round  steak,  cut  in  medium  pieces, 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  nice 
brown  in  beef  drippings,  then  add  one  good  size  onion 
chopped  fine  and  one  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes.  Cover  tight 
and  let  cook  slowly  about  11-2  hours.  A  little  water  can 
be  added  if  there  is  danger  of  burning.  Serve  on  hot  plat- 
ter and  pour  gravy  over  meat. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  5 

Boiled  Rice 

Wash  a  cup  of  rice  thoroughly  through  several  cold 
waters.  Put  a  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a  kettle  or  double 
boiler.  When  the  water  boils  rapidly,  sprinkle  in  the  rice 
and  let  it  boil  15  or  20  minutes  until  the  grains  stand  apart. 
Drain  the  rice  in  a  colander,  throw  over  it  a  cupful  of  cold 
water,  loosen  with  a  fork  and  place  where  it  will  dry.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  butter. — MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER,  Pasa- 
dena. 

Corn  Muffins 

Sift  together  1  2-3  cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  meal,  two 
rounded  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Beat 
to  a  cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  three  of  sugar. 
Add  three  eggs  beaten  very  lightly.  Then  stir  in  two  cups 
of  milk.  Beat  all  to  a  smooth  batter  and  fill  well  greased 
tins.  Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Salad   Dressing 

Beat  a  raw  egg  very  lightly.  Blend  with  it  a  table- 
spoon of  powdered  sugar.  Tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  half 
teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  half  teaspoonful  of  celery 
salt,  half  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  When  beaten  all  together, 
pour  over  this  one-half  cup  of  vinegar.  Stir  to  a  boil.  Re- 
move from  the  fire.  Beat  steadily  for  2  minutes.  When 
cold  set  in  the  ice  box. 

Potato  Salad 

Boil  six  large  potatoes  with  jackets  on.  Peel  when 
nearly  cold  and  cut  in  squares.  Cut  four  slices  of  bacon  in 
small  bits.  One  large  onion  cut  in  slices  and  fried  with 
bacon  until  light  brown.  Pour  a  small  cup  of  vinegar  into 
the  grease  and  then  pour  over  potatoes.  Pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Use  hard-boiled  eggs  if  desired. — MRS.  KATE  MANN. 
BAKER. 

American  Ice-Cream 

Put  a  half  box  gelatine  in  one  quart  of  milk.  Set  on 
back  of  stove  to  heat  gradually.  Boil  a  minute  or  two. 
Take  off  the  stove  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well 
.beaten  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Then  add  whites 
beaten  with  three  tablespoons  sugar  and  flavored  with  va- 
nilla. Put  in  dish  ready  for  table.  Chill.  Serve  next  day 
with  cream. — MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER. 


Soups 

Classes  of  Stock 

Bouillon — From  lean  beef  delicately  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  only  a  few  vegetables.  Usually  clear. 

Brown  Stock — Beef  including  the  bone  and  fat  highly 
seasoned  with  spices  and  vegetables. 

White  Stock — Veal  or  fowl  delicately  seasoned  with 
vegetables. 

Consomme — Two  or  three  kinds  of  meat  (beef,  veal, 
possibly  fowl)  served  clear.  The  above  named  soups  are 
served  first  at  large  dinners.  As  a  rule  use  quart  of  water 
to  a  pound  of  meat.  The  meat  should  always  be  cooked 
slowly.  It  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces  in  order  to  draw 
nourishment  out  and  to  loosen,  to  break  and  draw  gelatine 
out.  Thicken  with  rice,  sage,  barley. 

Vegetables — Carrots,  turnips,  onions,  some  times  light- 
er vegetables,  peas,  beans,  asparagus.  Vegetables  should 
be  cooked  alone  and  then  added. 

Soup  Stock — Two  Ibs.  raw  meat  and  bone  and  one  Ib. 
of  cooked  meat  and  bone.  3  quarts  of  cold  water.  To  each 
Ib.  of  meat  and  bone  add  one  tablespoon  of  onion,  one  of 
carrots,  one  turnips,  cut  into  cubes.  One  stock  of  celery, 
one  sprig  of  parsley,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  few  grains 
pepper  and  a  bay  leaf  if  desired.  Method — Have  the  bones 
split,  cut  the  meat  into  inch  cubes  and  soak  for  one  hour. 
Cold  water  draws  out  juices,  coagulates  albumen.  Simmer 
for  four  or  five  hours  in  warm  water  until  meat  falls  to 
pieces.  Add  vegetables  and  season  about  hour  before  the 
soup  is  done.  Strain  and  set  aside  for  2  to  4  hours. 

Clear  Soup  Stock — Remove  the  fat,  mix  with  shell  and 
whites  of  egg.  Boil  for  two  minutes  and  allow  it  to  stand 
for  15  to  20  minutes  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  settle.  Then 
strain.  Heat  again  before  serving. — MRS.  KATE  MANN, 
BAKER,  PASADENA,  CAL. 

Cream  Tomato  or  Mock  Bisque  Soup 

1  quart  milk 

2  cups  tomato  pulp 
Small  piece  of  bay  leaf 
A  few  cloves 

Salt,  pepper,  celery  salt 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  7 

Half  teaspoon  soda 
Small  bit  of  parsley 
2  tablespoons  butter 
2  teaspoons  flour 

Put  milk  on  to  scald.  Stir  tomatoes  with  bay  leaf 
cloves,  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Mix  butter 
and  flour  then  add  this  to  scalded  milk.  Let  cook  five  min- 
utes then  add  tomato  pulp  which  has  been  pressed  through 
sieve.  Serve  hot. — Miss  MARIE  GILLAM,  BAKERSFIELD. 

Duchess  Soup 

4  cups  white  stock 

2  slices  of  carrot  cut  in  tubes 

2  slices  onion 

2  blades  of  mace 

1  half  cup  grated  mild  cheese 

1  third  cup  butter 

1  fourth  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  eighth  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cups  scalded  milk 

Cook  vegetables  3  minutes  in  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter  then  add  stock  and  mace;  boil  15  minutes, 
strain  and  add  milk.  Thicken  with  remaining  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together;  add  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  cheese 
and  serve  as  soon  as  cheese  is  melted. — MRS.  ISABELLA  J. 
BARRAUD,  SAN  FRANCISCO. 

Turtle  Bean  Soup 

Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  water  one  half  pint  of 
black  beans,  one  half  pint  white  beans.  In  the  morning 
add  4  cups  of  cold  water  and  a  soup  bone,  salt  and  two 
onions  original  quantity  of  water  putting  in  from  a  boiling 
kettle.  After  the  beans  are  soft  strain  through  a  colander 
mashing  the  beans.  Last  add  one  tablespoon  of  catsup. 
Slice  a  hard  boiled  egg  and  one  lemon  sliced  thin  and  pour 
over  them  boiling  soup  and  serve. — MRS.  LILLIAN  V.  TUR- 
NER, 199  GLORIETTA  ST.,  PASADENA. 

Tomato  Bisque 

1  can  tomatoes  or  2  cups  milk 

1  quart  fresh  cooked  tomatoes 

1  fourth  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 


8  FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 

Pinch  of  pepper 

1  fourth  teaspoon  soda 

1  eighth  of  onion  if  desired 

Put  tomatoes  on  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  and  sim- 
mer 10  minutes.  Rub  through  a  strainer.  Melt  butter. 
Add  flour  to  butter  and  stir.  Add  one-third  of  milk  and  stir. 
Add  another  third.  When  free  from  lumps  add  remaining 
third.  Return  tomato  juice  to  fire,  add  soda  and  then  white 
sauce.  Strain  and  serve  at  once  with  croutons. — Miss 
MARIE  H.  FORD,  PASADENA. 

Squash  Soup 

3-4  cup  cooked  squash 
1  quart  milk 

1  slice  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1-4  teaspoon  celery  salt 
Few  grains  pepper 

Rub  squash  through  a  sieve  before  measuring.  Scald 
milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  to  squash ; 
season  and  serve. — MRS.  ISABELLE  J.  BARRAUD,  S.  F.  CAL. 

Tomato  Soup — No.  1 

Peel  two  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  boil  them  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  an  onion  and  other  soup  vegetables.  Strain  and 
add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  third  of  cup 
of  melted  butter;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  very  hot 
over  little  squares  of  bread  fried  brown  and  crisped  in  but- 
ter— an  excellent  addition  to  a  cold-meat  lunch. — MRS. 
MOLLIE  LANE  HANFORD. 

Tomato  Soup — No.  2 

Place  over  the  fire  a  quart  of  peeled  tomatoes,  stew 
them  soft  with  a  pinch  of  soda ;  strain  it  so  that  no  seeds 
remain ;  set  it  over  the  fire  again  and  add  a  quart  of  hot 
boiled  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Serve  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled 
cracker  crumbs  and  serve  hot.  Canned  tomatoes  can  be 
used  instead  of  fresh  ones. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 


C.  W.  FISCHBECK 

AWNINGS 


Cushions  and  Matresses 
Furniture  Repairing 

263  East  Colorado  Street,  Pasadena,  Cal. 


BONDS  -  LOANS  -  RENTS  -TAXES 

Phones 
Home  Ex.  24 — Sunset  Main  24 

B.  0.  KENDALL 

COMPANY 

REAL  ESTATE 

Fire  and  Life  Insurance 

67  North  Raymond  Avenue 


Home  3 40 -Sunset  120 

J.  J.  TRUAX 

WATCHMAKER 

And  JEWELER 

BEACH  STONES 
Cut,  Polished  and  Mounted 

17  North  Raymond  Avenue 

PASADENA,  CALIFORNIA 


SUNSET  1827 


HOME  3655 


C.  S.  BERRIDGE 

Groceries,  Cured  Meats,  Confectionery 

And  Bakery  Goods .  .  .  Fruits  and  Vegetables  in  Season 

Goods  Delivered  Promptly 

OUR  MOTTO 
"Good  Goods"— "Good  Weight"— "Good  Treatment" 

612  South  Fair  Oaks  Avenue          Pasadena,  Cal. 


Sunset  1877 


Home  2923 


R.  E.  Wells 

FLOOR  CONTRACTOR 

Pine  and  Hardwood  Flooring  Furnished 

and  Finished  at  a  Very  Reasonable  Cost 

Best  of  References 

380  North  Chester  Avenue 

PASADENA,  CAL. 


INSURANCE  LOANS 

Phone  Sunset  4051 

Wm.  Prince 

REAL  ESTATE 

A  Number  of  Beautiful  Homes  for  Sale 

on  the  Small  Payment  Plan 

Twenty-Five  Years'  Experience  in  Handling 

Pasadena  Property 

Residence  .  .  384  N.  Vernon 

PASADENA,  CAL. 


10 


FEDERATION   COOK    BOOK 


Commercial 


Savings 


San  Gabriel  Valley  Sank 

PASADENA,  CAL. 

Capital,  Surplus  and  Profits 

$300,000.00 
Strong  Conservative 


Your  Dry  Goods  Wants 

Can  Be  Supplied  at 

BON  ACCORD 

Where  New  and  Up-to-Date  Goods 
are  So'd  at  Reasonable  Prices 

Herman  R.  Hertel 

41-47  North  Raymond  Avenue 
Pasadena,  California 

J.C.C.JAXON         WM.  REYNOLDS 
The  Tailor 

PASADENA 
PANTATORIUM 

Tailors,  Cleaners,  Dyers.  Hatters 

for  Ladies  and  Gentlemen 

All  Work  Guaranteed     We  Call  &-  Deliver 

Both  Phones  138 

12  M  23  W.Colorado  Street 


PHONES 
Main  3923— Home  1742 

Mrs.R.H.  Hunter 

CATERESS 

LuncKes  Prepared  on  Short  Notice 

Special  Attention  Given  Parties,  Picnics.  Etc, 

The  Very  Best  of  Service  Guaranteed 

A  Iso  Fresh  Eggs  and 
Chickens  Dressed  to  Order 

27  Elevado  Drive    Pasadena 

"When  a  friend  you  have 

found  that  is  good  and 

true,  change  not  the 

old  for  the  new" 

M.  W.  Davis 

Real  Estate  and  Insurance 

1 7  North  Raymond  Avenue 


EDISON 

A  Synonym  for 

Good  Services  Square  Dealing 

Courteous  Treatment 

Pasadena's  Pioneer  Lighting  Company 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  11 

Corn  Chowder 

1  can  corn 

4  cups  potatoes,  cut  in  1-4  inch  slices 

1  1-2  inch  cube  fat  salt  pork 

1   sliced  onion 

4  cups  scalded  milk 

8  common  crackers 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out ;  add  onion  and 
cook  five  minutes,  stirring  often  that  onion  may  not  burn ; 
strain  fat  into  a  stevvpan.  Parboil  potatoes  five  minutes  in 
boiling  water  to  cover :  drain,  and  add  potatoes  to  fat ;  then 
add  two  cups  boiling  water ;  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft, 
add  corn  and  milk,  then  heat  to  boiling  point.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  butter,  and  crackers  split  and  soaked 
in  enough  cold  milk  to  moisten.  Remove  crackers,  turn 
chowder  into  a  tureen,  and  put  crackers  on  top. — MRS.  ISA- 
BELLE  J.  BARRAUD  S.  F.  CAL. 

Raw  White  Bean  Soup 

One  cup  of  white  beans  washed  good  in  soda  water 
put  them  in  soak  in  a  quart  of  water  over  night.  Next 
morning  put  them  in  a  double  boiler  in  the  same  water  and 
let  simmer  for  eight  hours,  then  drain  off  slowly;  this 
makes  a  very  nourishing  soup  for  invalids  and  is  also  used 
as  a  stock. — MRS.  C.  P.  COOPER,  Los  ANGELES. 

Oyster  Bisque 

1  pt.  oysters 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch 
1  cup  hot  cream 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  pt.  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Pinch  of  mace 

1  egg  slightly  beaten. 

Cook  oysters  in  milk  until  edges  curl.  Strain  off 
liquor  and  chop  the  oysters  as  fine  as  possible.  Blend  to- 
gether corn  starch  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  mace, 
then  add  hot  milk  and  cook  thoroughly.  When  ready  add 
chopped  oysters  and  1  cup  hot  cream  thickened  with  the 
egg.  Blend  together  and  serve. — Miss  IRENE  RUTHERFORD^ 
731  39th  St.,  Oakland. 


12  FEDERATION" '  COOK   BOOK 

Black  Oyster  Soup 

Four  Ibs.  of  beef  from  round  steak,  boil  in  two  quarts 
water,  brown  one  teacupful  of  flour,  add  boiling  broth, 
making  smooth  paste.  Thin  until  it  can  be  strained 
through  cloth.  Stir  until  thickened,  add  1  pint  of  oyster 
juice.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  into  hot  soup  tureen,  add  1 
pint  of  good  cherry,  add  oysters  last  and  a  few  small 
squares  of  browned  bread. — MRS.  LAURA  TATE,  HANFORD, 
CAL. 

RECIPES 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  13 

RECIPES 


14  FEDERATION    COOK   BOOK 

Fish,  Oysters  and  Entrees 

Baked  Fish 

Take  any  good  baking  fish,  make  a  stuffing  of  bread 
crumbs,  mix  with  butter,  salt  peper  and  sage.  Pour  over 
a  little  hot  water.  Bake,  basting  often.— MRS.  B.  C.  OFFUTT 
87  MOUNTAIN  ST.,  First  Vice  President  Sojourner  Truth 
Club. 

Jambalaya 

Boil  rice  and  set  aside.  Chop  ham  in  small  pieces  and 
fry,  add  onions  and  parsley  chopped  fine,  tomatoes  and 
shrimps ;  season  to  suit  taste ;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes, 
then  mix  thoroughly  in  rice. — Miss  ALICE  GRIFFIN,  BERKE- 
LEY. 

Creole  Dish 

Boiled  macaroni  or  spaghetti.  Set  aside.  Take  meat 
(any  kind)  left  over  from  day  before,  grind,  fry  with 
chopped  onions  parsley,  celery,  add  tomatoes,  season  to  suit 
taste  and  mix  in  macaroni. — Miss  ALICE  GRIFFIN,  1626 
Russell  St.,  Berkeley. 

Tomato  Relish 

Cut  the  bread  out  round  and  butter.  Slice  tomatoes  to 
fit  bread.  Cover  with  grated  Swiss  cheese.  Put  a  slice  of 
thin  bacon  on  top  and  brown  in  oven.  Serve  hot. — Miss 
FLORENCE  P.  WEIMER,  PASADENA. 

Tomato  and  Sardine  Appetizer 

Cut  bread  into  round  slices.  Toast  and  butter.  Take 
small  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.  Peel  and  cut  off  top.  Lay 
2  small  sardines  and  a  half  teaspoonful  grated  cheese  on 
tomato.  Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce  seasoned  with  To- 
basco  sauce.  Pour  over  appetizer.  Set  in  oven  three  min- 
utes and  serve. — MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TURNER. 

Coquilles  of  Sweetbread 

4  blanched  sweetbreads 
1  half  glass  white  wine 

1  gill  veloute  sauce 

2  truffles 

Scant  teaspoon  pepper 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  15 

2  tablespoons  good  cream  or  1  half  ounce  good  butter 

3  tablespoons  mushroom  liquor 
6  mixed  mushrooms 

1  tablespoon  salt 
Half  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Bread  crumbs 

Cut  sweetbreads  in  small  slices  and  stew  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  butter,  wine  and  mushroom  liquor.  Reduce 
them  for  10  minutes,  then  add  sauce,  mushrooms  and  truf- 
fles, cut  like  mushrooms.  Add  seasoning  and  finish  by 
adding  2  tablespoons  cream  and  butter.  Fill  6  ramekins 
with  this.  Sprinkle  them  with  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Pour 
a  few  drops  of  clarified  butter  over  them  and  put  them  in 
the  baking  oven.  Brown  slightly  for  6  minutes  longer  and 
serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Very  good. — 
MRS.  R.  H.  HUNTER,  ELEVADO  DRIVE,  PASADENA. 

Fish  Timbale 

Butter  thickly  6  timbale  moulds.  Have  ready  some 
cooked  macaroni.  Line  the  moulds  with  macaroni.  Have 
ready  any  kind  of  fish  lobster.  Fill  the  moulds  with  the 
fish.  Take  one  cup  of  thin  cream,  beat  thoroughly  one  egg 
and  mix  with  the  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  pour 
the  mixture  over  the  fish  then  set  moulds  in  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  firm.  Turn  out  on  plates  and  serve  with  a 
small  sprig  of  parsley.  Serve  with  any  sauce.  I  use  brown 
butter  sauce  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  tablespoon 
Worcester  sauce. — MRS.  R.  H.  HUNTER. 

Brown  Butter  Sauce 

Two  ounces  of  butter.  Put  in  sauce  pan  and  set  on  fire 
and  let  cook.  Be  careful  not  to  burn.  Put  in  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  Worcester.     Put  over  the  timbales  and  serve 
hot. — MRS.  R.  H.  HUNTER. 

Boiled  Halibut  With  Sauce 

2  Ibs.  of  halibut 

4  tablespoons  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  salt 

A  few  bay  leaves 

A  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

A  little  garlic 

Put  fish  on  to  cook  in  hot  water,  add  seasoning  and 
boil  30  minutes. 


16  FEDERATION   COOK    BOOK 

Sauce — Put  2  tablespoons  flour  into  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  over  the  fire,  when  perfectly  smooth  add  the 
water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Delicious  with  rice. — 
MRS.  G.  M.  TILLMAX,  290  KENSINGTON,  PASADENA. 

Fish  La  Paper  Sette 

(Very  Good) 

Select  nice  salmon  cut  in  pieces  just  large  enough  for 
each  person.  Then  take  thick  writing  paper  and  grease 
well  with  butter.  Lay  a  slice  of  fish  in  the  paper.  Make  a 
thick  Hollandaise  sauce,  put  a  spoonful  on  top  of  the  fish 
and  then  one  large  oyster.  Season  well.  Fold  the  paper 
and  secure  with  a  tooth  pick  and  bake  very  carefully.  Serve 
very  hot  just  as  they  are  in  the  paper.  —MRS.  MARY 
BRADSHAW,  CATERESS  of  INDIANAPOLIS,  IND. 

Lobster  Cutlets 

Boil  1  large  fish  lobster  15  minutes,  season  with  lemon 
and  cayenne  pepper.  When  done  take  out  and  cool.  Crack 
shell  and  take  out  all  the  meat.  Chop  fine.  Be  careful  in  clean- 
ing to  take  out  all  the  white  meat,  chop  fine,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  1  teacup  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  hen 
egg.  One  dessertspoon  flour  rubbed  together  and  stirred 
with  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  all  together  with  1  tablespoon 
of  parsley.  Pour  over  lobster  and  let  cool  for  2  or  3  hours. 
Form  into  chops  and  dip  into  bread  crumbs.  Have  fat 
very  hot  and  fry.  Place  claws  in  the  ends  of  the  chops  to 
form  the  bone.  Serve  with  mushrooms  or  cream  sauce. 
Garnish  with  parsley. — MRS.  M.  A.  GIBBS,  BERKELEY,  CAL. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

2  Ibs.  boiled  salmon 

1  tablespoon  parsley 

2  eggs 

Butter  size  of  a  hen's  egg 

1  small  teacup  of  mashed  potatoes 

Clean  salmon  thoroughly.  Boil  in  salt  water  one-half 
hour,  tied  up  in  a  cloth.  Drain  off  all  water.  Mash  thor- 
oughly, add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  parsley 
fine  and  mix.  If  desired  add  potato,  form  into  balls.  Beat 
up  eggs,  glaze  balls,  boil  in  hot  fat  a  couple  of  inches  deep. 
Serve  with  hot  peas. — MRS.  E.  ERSKINE,  BERKELEY. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  17 

Baked  Fish  Timbales 

Buy  a  nice  piece  of  halibut  or  nice  white  fish,  say  about 
2  to  3  Ibs.  Have  it  cut  the  long  way,  scrape  the  fish  off  to 
a  pulp,  make  a  thickening  of  butter,  flour  and  water  or  beef 
broth.  Season  high  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  Worcester  sauce,  mix  to  a  paste.  Butter  your  muffin 
or  timbale  rings  good.  Fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Place 
tins  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  done. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter.  Pour  a  nice  drawn  butter  sauce 
over  them.  Grate  the  hard-boiled  yolk  of  an  egg  over  them 
and  sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. — MRS.  ELIZA- 
BETH ROBERTS,  66  ALESSANDRO  PLACE,  PASADENA. 


Oyster  Fricasse 

1  quart  oysters 
Milk  or  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1  and  1  fourth  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

A  few  grains  cayenne 
1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 
-1  egg 

Clean  oysters.  Heat  liquor  to  boiling  point  and  strain 
through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth ;  add  oysters  to 
liquor  and  cook  until  plump.  Remove  oysters  with  skim- 
mer and  add  enough  cream  to  liquor  to  make  a  cupful. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  hot  liquor. 
Add  seasonings  and  eggs  slightly  beaten. — MRS.  ISABELLE 
J.  BARRAUD,  SAN  FRANCISCO. 

White  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour 
1  half  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  milk 

Butter  to  be  melted  in  sauce  pan,  flour  and  salt  added 
immediately  and  whole  cooked  a  few  seconds,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Milk  to  be  added  one-third  at  a  time.  The  mixture 
stirred  constantly  and  brought  to  the  boiling  point  after 
each  addition  of  milk.  Mixture  to  be  entirely  freed  from 
lumps  before  the  last  portion  of  milk  is  added — MARIE 
FORD,  PASADENA,  CAL. 


18  FEDERATION   COOK    BOOK 

Chicken  a  la  Providence 

Prepare  and  boil  a  chicken  following  recipe  for  boiled 
fowl.  The  liquor  should  be  reduced  to  2  cups  and  used  for 
making  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Add  to  sauce  one-half  cup  each  of  cooked 
carrots  (cut  in  fancy  shapes)  and  green  peas.  Place  chick- 
en and  sauce  with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  pars- 
ley.  MRS.  ISABELLE  J.  BARRAUD.  SAX  FRANCISCO. 

RECIPES 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  19 

RECIPES 


20  FEDERATION    COOK    BOOK 

Meats 

And  Their  Accompaniments 

Roast  Beef — Tomato  sauce,  grated  horse-radish,  mus- 
tard, cranberry  sauce,  pickles. 

Roast  Pork — Apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce. 

Roast  Veal — Tomato  sauce,  mushroom  sauce,  onion 
sauce,  horse  radish  and  lemons  are  good. 

Roast  Mutton — Currant  jelly,  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  Fowls — Bread  sauce,  onion  sauce,  lemon  sauce, 
cranberry  sauce,  jellies.  Also  cream  sauce. 

Boiled  Turkey — Oyster  sauce. 

Duck  or  Venison — Currant  Jelly,  cranberry  sauce. 

Roast  Goose — Apple  sauce,  grape  jelly. 

Mackerel — Stewed  Gooseberries. 

Beef  Loaf 

3  Ibs.  of  beef 

1  and  1  half  teaspoon  salt 

1  half  teaspoon  pepper 

1  egg 

6  crackers  rolled 

Meat  chopped  fine 

Add  seasoning,  unbeaten  egg,  enough  to  mix  the  crack- 
er crumbs.  Place  in  a  small  pan  solid  and  smooth.  Cover 
top  one-half  inch  deep  with  water.  Bake  slowly  for  three 
hours.  If  oven  is  too  warm  set  pan  in  another  pan  of 
water.  For  small  family  use  half  of  the  amount  of  ma- 
terials.— MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER. 

Veal  Entree  (Original) 

Made  from  the  meat  left  over  from  the  soup  pot.  Se- 
lect a  firm  piece  of  meat  for  your  soup.  When  about 
cooked  tender  remove  from  the  sauce  pan.  Cool  thor- 
oughly. With  a  sharp  knife  cut  into  small  squares.  Pre- 
pare a  small  piece  of  onion  and  some  celery ;  chop  together 
very  fine.  Beat  1  egg  light  and  prepare  enough  cracker 
crumbs  for  the  amount  of  meat ;  pepper  and  salt  accord- 
ing to  the  taste.  When  all  has  been  arranged  dip  your 
squares  into  the  egg,  then  into  the  mixture  of  onion  and 
celery  and  last  into  the  cracker  crumbs.  On  the  stove 
have  a  frying  pan  containing  either  hot  butter  or  lard ; 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  21 

into  this  place  your  veal  squares  allowing  them  to  brown 
well  and  serve. — HILDA  TILGHMAN,  Nautilus  Club,  Oak- 
land, Cal. 

Mock  Duck 
3  Ibs.  round  steak 
1  half  loaf  bread 
1  pint  eastern  oysters 
1  small  onion 

3  medium-sized  celery  stalks 
1  teaspoon  butter 

1  fourth  teaspoon  pepper 

2  large  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  to  taste.  Oysters  may  be  left  out  of  this  dressing 
if  desired.  Put  dressing  inside  of  steak,  sew  together  and 
bake  as  you  would  a  medium-sized  roast,  basting  often. — 
MRS.  CHARIES  SMITH,  609  14th  ST.,  BAKERSFIELD. 

Hamburger  Roll 

2  Ibs.  Hamburger  steak 
1  pork  sausage 

Mix  with  above  dressing  and  bake,  basting  frequently. — 
MRS.  CHAS.  SMITH,  609  14th  ST.,  BAKERSFIELD. 

Stuffed  Ham 

Remove  the  bone  from  the  ham,  and  fill  the  cavity  with 
a  dressing  made  to  suit  the  taste.  A  good  stuffing  may  be 
made  of  bread  crumbs  wet  with  milk,  2  eggs,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  thyme  and  celery,  and  a  half  dozen  chopped 
oysters. 

Bind  securely  into  shape  and  inclose  the  ham  in  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water  to  keep  the  juices  in.  Tie  or  sew  the 
ham  thus  enveloped  in  a  pudding  cloth ;  put  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  gently,  allowing  20  minutes  to  a 
lb.  Remove  the  ham  from  the  water  when  done  and  take 
off  the  bag  and  the  paste  crust.  Pare  the  skin  very  care- 
fully. Put  the  skinned  ham  into  the  covered  roaster;  coat 
well  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  set  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
cook  covered  10  minutes  for  each  lb.  of  ham. — Miss  ETHEL 
MILLER. 

Celery  Stuffing  With  Pork 

Use  one  quart  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  hot 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  cupful  of  celery  cut 
in  small  pieces ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cut  deep  gashes 
in  the  pork  and  fill  with  the  mixture. — L.  B.  RIDLEY. 


22  FEDERATION    COOK    BOOK 

Beefsteak  With  Oyster  Blanket 

Wipe  a  sirloin  steak  cut  one  and  one-half  inches  thick, 
broil  five  minutes  and  remove  to  platter..  Spread  with  but- 
ter and  sprinkle  with  salt  and -pepper.  Clean  one  pint  oys- 
ters, cover  steak  with  same,  sprinkle  oysters  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Clean  one  pint  oysters,  cover  steak  with  same, 
sprinkle  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  over  with  but- 
ter. Place  on  grate  in  hot  oven,  and  cook  until  oysters  are 
plump. — MRS.  ISABELLE  J.  BARRAUD,  S.  F.  CAL. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie 

Cut  up  chicken  and  boil  until  half  done.  Fry  4  or  5 
slices  of  fat  pork.  Lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  bake  pan. 
Place  the  chicken  in,  pour  over  it  nearly  a  quart  of  water. 
Add  two  ounces  of  butter,  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Cover  with  light  biscuit  crust  and  bake  an  hour. — 
MRS.  ANNA  FIELDS,  704  E.  6th  ST.,  HANFORD,  CAL. 

RECIPES 


FEDERATIOX  COOK  BOOK  23 

RECIPES 


24  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Bread  and  Rolls 

Nut  Bread 

7  cups  of  flour 
3  cups  sugar 

2  cups  nuts 

7  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour,  add  the  sugar 
and  milk  lastly  the  nuts.  This  makes  3  ordinary  loaves  or 

2  large  ones. — MRS.  L.  E.  WILLIAMS,  66  ALESSANDRO  PLACE 

Quick  Rolls 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cake  compressed  yeast 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
3  eggs 
1  qt.  flour 

1  half  cup  lard 

At  eleven-thirty  a.  m.  set  to  rise  potatoes,  milk,  sugar, 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Dissolve  in  lukewarm  water  the  yeast ; 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Then  mix  all 
together  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  1  p.  m.  Take 
flour,  add  salt,  lard  and  knead  until  stiff.  Set  aside  until 
3  p.  m.  Work  down  and  at  5  mould  into  rolls,  put  into 
pans  and  let  rise  till  6  o'clock.  Brush  tops  with  melted 
butter,  then  bake  in  moderate  oven. — MRS.  B.  HARVEY,  726 
Fairmont  Ave.,  Pasadena. 

Quick  Muffins 

2  eggs 

2  cups  flour 
Two-third  teaspoon  salt 

One  and  one-third  cups  sweet  milk 
Two-thirds  tablespoon  butter 

3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Separate  the  eggs,  drop  the  yolks  into  a  larger  bowl 
and  beat  them  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  the  milk, 
salt,  flour  and  melted  butter.  Beat  until  smooth  and  light. 
Add  baking  powder  and  mix  well.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  25 

Pasadena  National  Bank 


Capital  and  Surplus    -     $    280,000.00 
Resources      -    -     -     -    1,700,000.00 

OFFICERS  AND  DIRECTORS 

HENRY  NEWBY.  President  J.  H.  WOODWORTH,  Vice  President 

EDWARD  J.  PYLE.  Carhier  ISAAC  BAILEY,  Vice-President 

H.  C.  HOLT,  Asst.  Cashier  E.  W.  SMITH,  Asst.  Cashier 

CHAS.  N.POST  H.R.LACEY  EDWARD  T.  OFF 

Safe  Deposit  Boxes  for  Rent  We  Pay  4%  Interest  on  Term  Accounts 


W.  O.  HOWE  &  COMPANY 

Furnishers  to  the 

LADIES,  MISSES, 
CHILDREN  and  BABIES 

AT  IN  OF 

44  North  Raymond  Avenue,  Pasadena,  California    / 

J.  A.  V.  PIETERS  P.  J.  PIETERS 

Office  Phones,  Home  307,  Main  311 

Residence  Phone,  Main  641 

PIETERS  6-  CO. 

REAL  ESTATE   EXCHANGES 
LOANS  and  FIRE  INSURANCE 

First  Mortgage  Loans  &  Specialty 

224  Chamber  of  Commerce  Pasadena,  California 


GEO.  W.  DuNAH,  President 


FRANK    M.  WILLIAMS.  Sec  .Treasurer 

Member  Pasadena  Realty  Board 


Cornell-Williams 

Company 


198  E.  Colorado  Street 
Both  Phones  1888  PASADENA 


Sunset  Main  705  Home  Phone  705 


C.  V.  Sturdevant 

NOTARY  PUBLIC 

REAL  ESTATE 


Master  Tailors  LOANS        F|RE  INSURANCE 

324  East  Colorado  Street 


PASADENA 


26  FEDERATION  COOK  BO:>K 


Wilson  Music  Co. 

PHONES  IDS  180  East  Colorado  Street 


Eastman  Kodaks 

Edison  Phonographs 

Victor  Talking  Machines 

Typewriter  Repairs  &•  Supplies 


The  HO  CAN  Co. 

Colorado  and  Euclid 

Pasadena,  California 

Real  Estate,  Insurance,  Loans 

B.  F.  Huntington,  Real  Lstate 

Phones  1300      318-20  Chamber  of  Commerce 

T.  w.  MATHER  co. 

INCORPORATED 

Cor.  Raymond  Ave.  and  Union  St. 

Pasadena,  California 
SPECIALISTS 

Dry  Goods     Mantles    Costumes 

L.  H.  TURNER,  President  A.  B.  STEVENS,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Main  95 — Telephones — Home  95 

Turner  £r  Stevens  Co. 

UNDERTAKERS 

95  North  Raymond  Avenue,  Pasadena 
CREMATING  LADY  ASSISTANT 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  27 

whites  and  fill  well-greased  gem  pans  two-thirds  full. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  25  or  30  minutes. — Miss  EDNA  JACK- 
SON, 726  Fairmont  Ave..  Pasadena. 

Nut  Bread 

4  cups  of  flour 

A  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
Salt  to  taste 

Mix  together,  add  2  cups  sweet  milk,  put  in  pans.  Let 
stand.  This  makes  2  small  loaves.  Bake  30  minutes  in 
slow  oven.  Grease  top  with  little  butter. — MRS.  JOHN 
GLORIETTA  ST. 

Corn  Bread 

2  cups  meal 
1  cup   flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  fourth  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  dry  materials  into  a  thick  batter  with  water,  add 
molasses.  Bake  in  a  well  greased  pan  for  a  half  hour. — 
Miss  RUTH  PRINCE,  384  N.  VERNON  AVE.,  PASADENA. 

Corn  Bread 

2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal 
2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  altogether 

1  egg,  beat  light,  add  pinch  of  salt 

2  teaspoonful  of  sugar 

Butter  size  of  small  egg  (melted) 
1  cup  sweet  milk 

If  sour  cream  is  obtainable,  use  1-3  cup  of  cream  in- 
stead of  butter;  use  in  cream  a  pinch  of  soda.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. — MRS.  EULA  B.  ROBERTS,  HANFORD,  CAL. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Make  same  as  biscuits  with  half  and  half  water  and 
niilk.  Roll  out  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Roll 
up  as  you  would  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  into  biscuits  and  bake  15 
to  20  minutes. — MRS.  B.  McAooo,  PASADENA,  CAL. 


28  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Spoon  Bread 

1  quart  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

4  eggs 

1  cup  corn  meal 

1  and  1  half  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  milk  to  boiling  point.  Stir  in  meal  to  make  a 
nice  mush.  When  cool  add  eggs  beaten  separately,  butter 
and  salt  and  bake  in  a  baking  dish  20  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  until  a  light  brown.  Delicious. — MRS.  MARY 
BRADSHAW,  INDIANAPOLIS,  IND. 

Salt  Rising  Bread 

2  thirds  pint  milk 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  lard 

1  tablespoon  white  sugar 

Pour  boiling  milk  over  salt  and  meal  and  stir  well.  Set 
to  rise  at  night,  next  morning  add  warm  water,  sugar,  lard 
and  flour,  set  warm  place  to  rise.  Make  into  loaves  to  rise 
and  bake. — Tested. 

Pop   Overs 

3  eggs  1  cup  flour 
1  and  1  half  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Bake  in  hot  pan  about  40  minutes. — MRS.  LILLIAN  V. 
TURNER. 

Biscuits  Without  Milk 

Make  the  same  as  baking  powder  biscuit.  Beat  one  or 
two  eggs.  Stir  them  into  the  water  before  putting  it  into 
the  flour.  Nice  light  biscuit  will  result. — MRS.  WM.  PRINCE. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  29 

RECIPES 

n.  -o^^^J 

^^"*"  /  / 

• 


^c^  Y 

^i^-Oi^Y^  /  >  y          "W-  .W'JtX^ 
tx/ 


u-^ 


^ 


.  s    i  , 


\x; 

30 
3 


FEDERATIOX  COOK  BOOK 


RECIPES 


/- 


ix)     Uwri-fitfL    > 

i          /     '  / 

}  ]*^~-         &£. 

L(!L  $  I 

. 

M-T. 

\sUL+ 

.- 

)*J^, 
."^ft^ 


L  .  / 

'{-'{/       '  '" 

fa^^l^UJ    ^(yyfa^ 


. 

^  / 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  31 


Vegetables 


Fried  Celery 

6  small  stalks  of  celery 
4  ounces  breadcrumbs 
2  eggs 
Fat  for  frying 

Wash  the  celery  and  simmer  until  tender  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  salt  water  and  drain  and  divide  in  half.  Brush 
over  with  the  beaten  eggs.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot  fat.  When 
a  light  brown  color  remove  and  drain.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  and  serve. — Miss  SUSIE  SYLMON,  Pasa- 
dena. 

Fried  Okra  With  Ham 

Mince  a  half  pound  of  boiled  ham  fine.  Mince  2  onions. 
Fry  these  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  when  they  have  been 
friend  brown,  add  to  them  2  dozen  sliced  spears  of  Okra. 
Stir  constantly  with  a  long  handled  spoon  (wooden)  until 
Okra  browns.  Then  pour  over  the  contents  a  teaspoonfuJ 
of  tomato  sauce.  Let  simmer  until  juice  is  absorbed  and 
the  vegetables  begin  to  brown  once  more.  Then  remove  and 
serve  in  a  vegetable  dish. — MRS.  JULIA  ROBERTS,  205  W. 
3rd  St.,  Handford. 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Drain  the  cooked  asparagus  and  cut  off  the  tips  laying 
these  on  strips  tof  buttered  toast.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
hard  boiled  egg  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. — Miss  ETHYLE 
JONES  Nautilus  Club. 

Rice  Balls  with  Tomato  Sauce 

8  tablespoons   cold  boiled   rice 

4  tablespoons  cooked  meat,  chopped 

Spread  2  tablespoons  rice  on  a  square  of  cheese- 
cloth. Heap  1  tablespoon  of  meat  in  the  center.  Now 
carefully  bring  up  the  corners  of  cheese-cloth  about  the 
rice  twisting  together  at  the  top  and  fastening  with  string. 
Drop  them  into  boiling  water  for  10  or  15  minutes  until 
hot  and  then  turn  out  carefully  on  the  platter  into  which 
you  have  poured  the  tomato  sauce.  Decorate  with  parsley. 


32  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Tomato  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter 
1  cup   tomato  juice 
1  tablespoon  flour 
One-half  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  butter  and  flour  together  in  a  sauce  pan ;  add  to- 
mato juice,  stir  and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  salt 
and  serve. — Miss  EDNA  JACKSON,  726  Fairmont  Ave. 

Okra  Gumbo — Creole  Dish 

Wash  okra  and  cut  in  bits.  Use  1  Ib.  of  ham,  1  frying 
chicken,  1  large  onion,  1  can  of  shrimps,  1  can  of  tomatoes, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fry  ham,  chicken,  okra,  shrimps, 
and  onion  together;  cook  20  minutes.  Add  tomatoes  and 
4  cups  of  water.  Cook  1  hour.  Eat  with  rice. — MRS.  M. 
FOUCHE,  Pasadena. 

String  Beans  a  la  Creole 

Cut  beans  small,  J/2  lb.  of  bacon  cut  small,  1  can  of 
tomatoes,  1  can  of  green  chili,  (Ortega),  1  large  onion, 
teaspoon  of  salt. 

Fry  bacon  and  onions  together.  Add  string  beans 
(previously  boiled),  tomatoes  and  Yi  can  of  Ortega  chili, 
Cook  1  hour.  Add  1  cup  of  water,  then  cook  15  minutes. — 
MRS.  M.  FOUCHE,  917  Morten  Ave.,  Pasadena. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  thinly  sliced  potatoes.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Cover  potatoes  with 
sweet  milk.  A  little  onion  may  be  added  if  desired.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  tender. — MRS.  WILLIAM  PRINCE, 
Pasadena. 

Spanish  Rice 

Boil  rice  until  done 

1  onion  sliced 

1  half  cup  grated  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Put  all  of  these 
together  and  brown  in  butter.  Serve  hot.  Very  good  with 
baked  steak  or  shoulder. — MRS.  B.  McAooo,  Pasadena. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  33 

Stuffed  Peppers 

Take  6  large  bell  peppers,  take  out  seeds  and  pith. 
Chop  1  Ib.  cold  meat  a  little  cold  ham  will  flavor  it  nice,  also 
1  onion,  2  tomatoes,  chop  thoroughly.  Mix  all  together, 
also  pepper  seeds,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  inch  of  ca- 
yenne pepper  can  be  added.  Add  to  the  whole  a  cup  of 
bread  crumbs.  Stuff  the  peppers  and  place  in  a  pan  half 
full  of  water.  Bake  until  tender.  It  will  require  about  an 
hour.  Place  slices  of  bacon  on  each  before  baking. — MRS. 
ELLA  EWING,  Hanford. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

9  peppers 

10  cents  boiled  ham  chopped  fine 
1  can  tomatoes 

Bread  crumbs  grated  fine 

Juice  of  onion  enough  to  flavor.  Salt,  sugar  to  taste. 
Melted  butter  over  the  top.  Bake. — MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TUR- 
NER. , 

Spinach  Greens 

1  Ib  of  spinach 

6  slicest  of  breakfast  bacon 

2  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Boil  the  eggs  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Wash  and 
pick  green  carefully  until  free  from  grit.  Put  on  in  water 
enough  to  cover,  add  salt  and  boil  30  minutes.  Drain.  Fry 
the  bacon,  pour  the  hot  drippings  over  the  spinach  and  gar- 
nish with  the  slices  of  bacon  and  boiled  eggs. — MRS.  G.  M. 
TILLMAN. 

Breakfast  Rice 

One  pint  milk 

One  egg 

One  teaspoonful  butter 

Two  cups  boiled  rice 

One  teaspoonful   sugar 

One  pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  egg,  add  milk  rice  and  seasoning  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. — MRS.  G.  M.  TILLMAN. 


34  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

RECIPES 


4-  I  i  <  f<  <-s 


• 

,//    i        /,, 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 


RECIPES 


35 


&t>Ls 


t/iWV^ 


36  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Salads 

"Variety  is  the  spice  of  life." 

Cherry  Salad 

1  pint  of  white  cherries  stoned.  Stuffed  with  whole 
filberts.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  half  whipped  cream  and 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Miss  FLORENCE  P.  WEIMER,  143  S. 
Vernon  Ave. 

Cucumber  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Cut  1  large  can  of  pineapple  in  little  dice  and  2  cucum- 
bers. Take  the  juice  of  pineapple  and  one-half  box  of 
Knox's  gelatine  dissolve  in  juice.  Pour  over  cucumber  and 
pineapple,  put  in  moulds  and  let  harden.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  one-half  mayonnaise,  one-half  whipped  cream. 
Garnish. — Miss  FLORENCE  P.  WEIMER,  Pasadena  Cateress. 

Marshmallow  Salad 

1  fourth  Ib.  marshmallows  cut  up 

1  half  Ib.  pecan  nuts  broken  in  bits 

1  cup  white  cherries 

1  cup  pineapple  cut  up 

Dressing,  1   half  cup  whipped  cream 

1  third  cup  mayonnaise 

Chill  the  fruits  and  before  serving  mix  with  dressing 
and  place  on  lettuce  leaf. — MRS.  ETTA  V.  MOXLEY,  First 
Vice  President  of  State  Federation,  Santa  Monica. 

Heavenly  Hash 

Yolks  of  4  eggs 

1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  half  teaspoon  salt 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

6  bananas 

4  oranges 

Beat  the  yolks  till  very  thick  and  into  them  gradually 
sugar  and  salt.  Whip  till  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  lemon  juice 
and  beat  again.  Peel  and  slice  thin  oranges  and  bananas. 
Put  in  a  deep  dish  a  layer  of  bananas  then  one  of  the  mix- 
ture next  one  of  the  oranges  and  then  one  of  the  dressing 
again,  going  on  in  this  manner  until  all  of  the  ingredients 
are  used  up.  Put  bananas  on  top.  Pour  the  rest  of  the 
dressing  on.  Serve  cold. — MRS.  E.  WINN,  Pasadena. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  37 

Fruit  Salad 

6  oranges  cut  in  pieces 
3  bananas  cut  in  dice 

1  small  can  of  sliced  pineapple  cut  in  pieces 
1-3  of  a  cup  of  shelled  pecans  (chill) 

Mix  with  2-3  mayonnaise  dressing  and  1-3  whipped  cream 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  maraschino  cher- 
ries.— B.  L.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 

Chicken  Salad 

1  quart  of  chicken 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  pint  of  celery 
1  teaspoon  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  of  oil 
1-2  teaspoon  pepper 

Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — MRS.  LAWSON,  Pasa- 
dena Ave. 

Peach  Salad 

Halve  and  stone  large  fresh  peaches.  Fill  the  cavities 
with  a  mixture  of  broken  walnuts,  pieces  of  pear  and  a  dash 
of  celery  or  parsley.  When  serving  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream  dressing. — Miss  LEONYA 
JONES,  Nautilus  Club. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Yolk  of  one  egg 

Half  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cupful  of  salad  oil 

11-2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice 

Put  yolk  of  egg  in  bowl  add  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  add  oil  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  used. 
Beat  until  smooth.  Then  add  lemon  juice. — Miss  CORINA 
B.  HICKS,  Pasadena. 

Jellied  Potato  Salad 

One  quart  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice.  Coat  small 
moulds  with  gelatine  decorate  with  sliced  pimolas.  Put  the 
potatoes  with  a  very  little  onion,  celery  and  cucumber  into 
the  mould.  Season  the  rest  of  the  gelatine  which  is  the  re- 
mainder of  the  half  box  used,  with  parsley  and  onion  and 


38  FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 

pour  over  the  ingredients  in  the  mold,  chill  and  turn  out  on 
a  lettuce  leaf.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  in  which  a  cup  of 
shrimps  has  been  chopped. — MRS.  ETTA  V.  Moxley,  Santa 
Monica  Cateress. 

Spanish  Salad 

Cut  in  half  several  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  place  them  at 
intervals  on  the  lettuce  on  your  salad  bowl  or  plate.  In  be- 
tween, place  stuffed  olives  and  a  few  tomatoes  cut  in  two. 
Cover  each  egg  with  mayonnaise.  Place  this  dish  in  front 
of  the  hostess,  who  will  serve  to  each  guest,  one  of  each  of 
the  ingredients  of  the  salad. — MRS.  W.  Y.  RANSOM,  Pasa- 
dena. 

Potato  Salad 

For  a  small  family. — Pare  4  large  potatoes.     Place  in 
hot  water  and  boil  until  soft.     Remove   from  water  and 
mash  very  smooth.    Add  a  little  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  teaspoonful  celery  seed 
1  tablespoonful  sugar 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  small  onion  chopped  very  fine 

Black  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  place 
in  dish  ready  to  serve. — MRS.  ATCHISON,  Los  Angeles. 

Tomato  Salad 

Peel  and  hull  out  tomatoes  then  put  in  each  tomato  a 
teaspoonful  of  French  dressing.  Set  in  ice  box.  Take  the 
part  hulled  out,  cut  fine  1  cucumber,  small  bunch  celery,  1 
onion,  green  pepper  chopped  up,  then  mixed  with  4  table- 
spoons French  dressing.  Put  in  ice  box.  When  ready  to 
serve  put  mixture  in  each  tomato,  a  tablespoon  of  mayon- 
naise on  top  served  in  lettuce  leaves  with  bread  buttered  and 
cheese  grated  between,  then  toasted.  Makes  a  fine  salad. — 
MRS.  MADGE  LAWSON,  Pasadena  Ave.,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Salmon  Salad 

Flake  remnants  of  cold  boiled  salmon.  Mix  with 
French  mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing.  Arrange  on  nests 
of  lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  the  yolks  of  a  "hard-boiled 
egg,"  forced  through  a  potato  ricer  and  white  of  egg  cut  in 
strips. — MRS.  ISABELLA  J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  39 

De  John  Salad 

Pare  6  Bartlett  pears,  care  being  taken  not  to  remove 
stems.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve  in  original  shapes  on 
letuce  leaves.  Serve  with  French  dressing. — MRS.  ISABELLE 
J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco. 

Pepper  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad 

Cut  slices  from  stem  ends  of  six  green  peppers,  and  re- 
move seeds.  Refill  with  grape  fruit  pulp,  finely  cut  celery 
and  English  walnut  meat  broken  in  pieces  allowing  twice  as 
much  grape  fruit  as  celery,  and  two  nut  meats  to  each  pep- 
per. Arrange  on  chicory  or  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — MRS.  ISABELLE  J.  'Barraud,  San 
Francisco. 

Lobster  Salad 

Select  heavy  small  lobsters  rather  than  large  ones.  Put 
them  in  warm  water  and  let  them  boil  for  about  half  an 
hour.  Take  from  shells  and  claws  all  the  meat  that  is  eata- 
ble. Cut  in  blocks  and  let  it  cool  thoroughly.  Use  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Serve  in  a  nest  of  lettuce  on  a  dish.  Mix 
about  one-fourth  of  the  dressing  with  the  cut  lobster.  Put 
the  rest  of  the  dressing  on  top  of  the  salad.  Garnish,  with 
tufts  of  the  lettuce  and  the  small  claws  of  the  lobster. — 
MRS.  CHAS.  WILLIAMS,  S.  Pasadena  Ave. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing 

4  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  half  cup  vinegar 

3  eggs 

1  large  teaspoon  mustard 

Pinch  of  red  pepper 

First  melt  the  butttr  in  sauce  pan,  add  flour,  stir  till 
smooth.  Add  milk,  stir  till  it  begins  to  boil.  Place  pan  in 
a  larger  one  filled  with  hot  water.  Let  cook  a  few  minutes 
stirring  occassionally  so  it  won't  lump.  Beat  eggs  light, 
add  to  them  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  mustard  which  have 
been  mixed  dry.  Add  vinegar  and  stir  all  into  the  boiling 
mixture.  Let  cool  and  it  is  ready  to  use. — MRS.  B.  FIELDS, 
704  E.  Sixth  St.,  Hanford. 


40  FEDERATION    COOK    ROOK 

Crab  Salad 

Boil  the  crabs  and  when  done  remove  the  meat  in  as 
large  pieces  as  possible.  Pour  over  this  a  French  dressing 
made  of  salad  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with 
white  lettuce  leaves.  Crab  salad  is  much  improved  by  re- 
maining on  ice  a  few  hours. — MRS.  MADGE  LAWSON,  410  S. 
Pasadena  Ave. 

Salad  Dressing  Romaine 

Mix  together  in  a  bowl,  1  teaspoon  grated  onion,  1  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  juice  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  dry  mustard, 
powdered  sugar  and  white  pepper,  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 
3  tablespoon  of  olive  oil. — B.  L.  TURNER. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

1  half  teaspoon  salt 

1  and  1  half  tablespoons  sugar 

1  half  tablespoons  flour 

1  and  1  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  fourth  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  mustard 

A  few  grains  cayenne 
Yolk  of  2  eggs 

3  quarters  cup  sweet  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  lightly. 
Add  to  this  scalded  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Add  hot  vinegar  slowly. — Miss  MYRTLE  B.  CRAIG. 
Teacher  of  Domestic  Science,  Lincoln  Institute. 

Salad  Dressing 

2  eggs 

6  tablespoons  vinegar 

4  tablespoons  thick  cream 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  half  teaspoon   mustard 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Beat  eggs,  add  all  ingredients,  put  in  double  boiler. 
Just  allow  it  to  boil  a  minute,  then  add  one  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  it  away  to  cool.  Thin  with  either 
milk  or  cream  for  use.  Salad  can  be  made  of  potatoes, 
onions,  eggs  and  nuts  if  you  have  them. — Miss  F.  WELCHER 
228  W.  Third  St.,  Hanford. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  41 

CITY  LIGHT  IN  EVERY  HOME 

Patronize  Your  Own  Plant 

You  know  what  the  Light  Rates  Were  and  what  they  Are  Now. 
The  City  Light  Plant  made  this  change.  .  .  It  is  giving  the  BEST 
light  for  the  money  in  the  world Join  the  4000  Club  and 

Become  a  User  of  MUNICIPAL  Electricity 

Both  Phones  605  Office,  72  North  Fair  Oaks  Avenue 

Both  Phones  250  Wiring  and  Appliances 

F.  C.  Sweetser 

GAS  and   ELECTRIC 

FIXtURES 

43^45  East  Union  Street  Pasadena,  Cflifornia 

PRIVATE  AMBULANCE  LADY  ATTENDANT 

Proprietors 
PASADENA  CREMATORIUM 


57  North  Fair  Oaks  Avenue 

Telephone  52  Pasadena,  California 

Phones  Main  60  Established  1887 

Poultry  and  Game  in  Season 

Our  Own  Cold  Storage 

City  Meat  Market 

JOHN  BREINER.  Proprietor 

Fresh,  Salt  and  Smoked  Meats 

118  East  Colorado  Street 

Free  Delivery  in  South  Pasadena  Pasadena,  California 


42  FEDERATION    COOK   BOOK 

GOOD    COOKS     USE 

Garland  Gas  Ranges 

Economical — Long  Lived — Convenient 

PITCHLR  HARDWARE  CO. 

Phones  689  63  North  Fair  Oaks  Avenue 


DAUGHERTY'S 

Home-Made 

Relishes 


OLIVES         Home-Made        PICKLES 

HULLED  CORN  iwiiu^l     1OXJC,          SAUERKRAUT 


HORSE    RADISH        [^          {'       1  MUSTARD  PICKLES 

CHILI    SAUCE  l\ellSrlSS         Cottage  CHEESE 

PICCALILLI  *^-'**?**  *  V**  BUTTERMILK 


PEANUT  BUTTER  SARATOGA  CHIPS 

Phone  419  117  West  Union  Street  Pasadena 

SUNSET  2506  HOME  3368 

MRS.  B.  L.  TUKNEPv 

FIRST -CLASS 

Cateress  and  Waitress 

DINNERS      LUNCHEONS       PARTIES      WEDDINGS 
PROMPT  SERVICE  ON  SHORT  NOTICE 

492  South  Fair  Oaks  Avenue         Pasadena,  California 

Sunset  Main  36 1 4  Home  Phone  1 25 1 

EMPLOYMENT  AGENCY 

MKS.  G.  WEATHEKTON 

All  Kinds  of  Domestic  Help  Furnished 
Reliable  Colored  Help  a  Specialty 

811  South  Fair  Oaks  Avenue         Pasadena,  California 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  43 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

1  half  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg  slightly  beaten 

1  half  teaspoon  mustard 

3  fourths  tablespoon  sugar 

2  and  1  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 

3  fourths  cup  cream  or  rich  milk 
1  half  tablespoon  flour 

1  fourth  cup  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Add  vinegar  very  slow- 
ly. Cover  over  boiling  water  stirring  constantly  till  thick. 
Strain  and  cool. — MRS.  CLARA  HOWARD,  2209  13th  St., 
Bakersfield. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

5  eggs 

3  lemons 

1  cup  pineapple  juice 

1  and  1  half  teaspoons  mustard 

1  half  teaspoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch 
A  dash  of  red  pepper 

1  cup  cream 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler.  When  cooked  add  a  tablespoon 
butter.  Before  serving  add  whipped  cream. — MRS.  CLAY 
JAXON,  278  Elevado  Drive,  Pasadena. 


Mayonnaise  Dressing 

1   eighth  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  olive  oil 

1  fourth  teaspoon  salt 

1   tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Yolk  of  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Mix,  salt  and  pepper,  add  yolk  and  beat  until  thickened 
a  little,  add  lemon  juice  and  vinegar  gradually.  Use  a 
Dover  egg-beater  and  beat  in  oil  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 
After  a  while  oil  may  be  added  by  the  tablespoonful.  Beat 
thoroughly  after  each  addition  of  oil.  Let  stand  in  cool 
place  till  ready  to  use. — Selected. 


44  FEDERATION    COOK   BOOK 

Date  Salad 

Wash  dates  thoroughly.  Remove  the  stones.  Stuff 
with  cream  cheese.  Place  on  lettuce  leaf.  Serve  cold  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Miss  MYRTLE  CRAIG. 

Cherry  Salad 

Take  large  white  canned  cherries.  Remove  stones  and 
replace  with  filberts.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise. Garnish  with  candied  violets.  Makes  a  delicious 
and  attractive  salad. — Miss  MYRTLE  CRAIG. 

RECIPES 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  45 

RECIPES 


46  FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 


Cheese  and  Nut  Sandwiches 

Two  cakes  of  Neufchatel  cheese  mashed  fine,  one-half 
cup  pecan  nuts  chopped  fine.  Moisten  with  a  little  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Cut  bread  into  very  thin  slices  and  butter. 
Spread  with  mixture  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. — 
MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TURNER. 

Luncheon  Sandwiches 

1  small  onion 

9  olives 

1  green  pepper 

Chow  chow  pickle 

1  cupful  grated  cheese 

Chop  all  of  the  ingredients  very  fine.  Add  enough  mus- 
tard dressing  from  the  chow  chow  to  form  a  nice  paste. 
Spread  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread  not  too  thickly.  Very 
fine. — Miss  MAUDE  ROBERTS,  205  W.  3rd  St..  Hanford. 

Pepper  Sandwiches 

1  small  can  of  Spanish  peppers  chopped  fine 

2  cakes  of  Neufchatel  cheese  mashed  fine 

Season  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Butter  thin  slices 
of  bread,  spread  with  mixture  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. — 
Tested. 

Olive  Sandwiches 

Use  ripe  olives.  Remove  stones  and  chop  fine.  Mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Butter  thin  slices  of  bread. 
Spread  with  mixture  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape. 

Mrs.  Turner's  Hot  Cheese  Sandwiches. — Take  any 
kind  of  cream  cheese.  Mash  fine.  Mix  with  plain  cream, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Take  ordinary  slices  of 
bread  spread  mixture  between.  Cut  in  desired  shapes.  But- 
ter both  sides.  Toast  and  serve  hot  with  salads. 

Cheese  Straws 

12  tablespoon  flour 

8  tablespoons  butter 

6  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

1   and   1   half  cups  water 

Add  sa-lt  and  red  pepper.  Mix  well  and  roll  out  thin. 
Cut  in  strips  and  bake  quickly. — MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TURNER. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  47 

Cheese  Straws 

1  half  Ib.  cheese  or  8  tablespoons 

1  half  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  quarter  Ib.  butter 

1  half  Ib.  flour 

Red  pepper  to  taste 

Water  enough  to  make  a  dough 

Roll  out  and  cut  into  strips,  bake  in  medium  oven. 
Nice  served  for  dinner  or  luncheon. — MRS.  EVA  CARTER 
BUCKNER,  Los  Angeles. 

Baked  Cheese 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  cup  fresh  milk 
1  cup  chopped  cheese 
1  teaspoon  mustard 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  all  together,  then  put  in 
milk.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake  20  minutes. — MRS.  B.  Mc- 
ADOO,  Pasadena. 

Cheese  Balls 

Take  Xeufchatel  chees  mash  fine,  mix  with  finely 
chopped  nuts  and  chopped  parsley,  a  little  cream.  Roll  into 
balls  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. — Tested. 


48  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

RECIPES 


^ 


r>- 

^LA,  O- 


. 

//  v 

/  / 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  49 

RECIPES 

/4<wu 


/I. 

— 


W        f  +  

2~£ 


4t 

J  ' 


c.     ,         ~         L 
,*£^^^ 

-^ 


^ _/***** 

i>^M 

L>.     ^ 


i 


j^<s^>      C/'t 
-"  /    ' 

' 


50  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Desserts 

Rule  for  Baked  or  Boiled  Custard 

1  quart  of  scalded  milk 

From  4  to  6  eggs 

1-4  teasoonful  of  salt 

1-2  cup  of  sugar 

1-2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 

Soft  Custard 

Beat  yolks,  reserving  the  whites  for  maring.  Add 
scalded  milk  to  yolks,  which  have  been  mixed  with  sugar. 
Put  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  the  custard 
will  cream  on  a  spoon.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  allow 
to  cool.  When  partly  cooled,  add  flavoring.  If  used  as  a 
sauce  beat  yolks  and  whites  all  together  instead  of  reserv- 
ing whites  for  maring. 

Maring — Beat  whites  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  to  each  white  of  egg.  Pile  it  on  top  of 
custard. 

A  Banana  Float  is  made  by  cutting  bananas  put  in  a 
dish  or  any  fruit  desired  and  pour  custard  over  it.  Pre- 
pare at  the  time  to  be  served.  Put  maring  over  the  top. 

Macaroon  Float — Macaroons  dried  in  oven  and  pow- 
dered, add  mixture  to  custard  and  serve  with  maring. 

Dessert  varied  by  adding  cocoanut  and  other  kinds  of 
fruit.  Pour  over  the  fruit  the  custard  after  it  is  cooled,  so 
it  will  not  curdle. 

Baked  Custard — Same  proportions  of  material  and  eggs 
as  for  soft  custard.  After  having  added  scalded  milk,  poach 
by  putting  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  of  water  and  heat,  not  al- 
lowing it  to  boil  for  eggs  will  separate. 

Test  for  Baked  Custard — Ready  when  a  knife  runs 
through  without  the  egg  adhering  to  the  knife.  The  color 
should  be  an  even  golden  brown. — MRS.  KATE  MANN 
BAKER,  Pasadena. 

Puddings  and  Pies 

"Who'll  dare  deny  the  truth,  there's  poetry  in  pie." — 
Longfellow. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  51 

Lemon  Pie 

1  cup  of  sugar 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
Whites  of  2  for  meringue 

2  thirds  of  cup  ow  sweet  milk  or  cream 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon     ^ 
4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  of  flour 
Pinch  of  salt 

Cream   butter,   sugar,   flour  and   eggs  together, 
milk  or  cream,  lemon  last.     Put  in  crust  and  bake, 
meringue  for  the  top  and  brown. — MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TUR- 
NER. 

Cream  Prune  Pie 

1  cupful  stewed  prunes 

1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour 

1  third  cup  of  sugar 

1   cupful  of  milk 

Small  piece  of  butter 

Yolk  of  2  eggs 

Put  prunes  through  the  colander,  add  1  cup  of  milk 
thickened  with  cornstarch  or  flour,  butter,  sugar  and  eggs. 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  rich  crust  and  fill.  When  baked 
add  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  brown 
slightly  in  the  oven. — MRS.  L.  B.  RIDLEY. 

Pumpkin  Fie 

1  half  Pumpkin 

1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

6  eggs 

1  and  1  half  cups  brown  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  lump  butter 

1  pinch  of  soda 

1  and  1  half  pints  of  milk 

Cut  pumpkin  in  large  slices,  bake  in  the  oven,  rind,  pulp 
and  all.  When  done  scrape  off  the  stringy  part  and  rub  the 
pulp  through  a  colander,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  molasses,  su- 
gar, raisins  rolled  in  flour,  vanilla,  cinnamon,  soda  and 
milk.— MRS.  JOHN  WELCHER,  Hanford. 


52  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Pine  Apple  Pudding 

1  tin  of  pineapple 

2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 
Whites  of  3  eggs 

Take  the  pineapple  pour  off  the  juice  and  let  it  boil. 
Beat  the  whites  well.  Mix  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  water 
and  pour  into  the  pineapple  juice  and  stir  to  keep  it  from 
scorching.  Let  it  cook  for  10  minutes,  then  pour  it  in  over 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  till  it  is  very  light.  Afler  it 
is  beaten  enough  add  the  sliced  pineapple  cut  up  in  small 
squares  and  some  walnuts  chopped  fine. 

Cream  Puffs 

Put  half  pint  of  water  and  4  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  a  sauce  pan,  sift  and  measure  a  half  pint  of  flour 
when  the  water  is  boiling  and  the  butter  thoroughly  melted 
turn  in  hastily  the  flour  and  stir  rapidly  over  the  fire.  In  a 
moment  you  will  have  perfectly  smooth  soft  dough ;  take 
from  the  fire  and  stand  it  aside  until  partly  cool.  Break 
4  eggs  into  the  batter,  beat  thoroughly  and  stand  it  aside 
in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour.  Then  drop  by  tablespoonfuls 
into  greased  shallow  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
36  to  40  minutes.  The  batter  must  be  dropped  far  enough 
apart  to  leave  room  for  swelling.  When  the  puffs  are  done 
fill  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  or  custard. — Miss  PEARL 
HINDS,  Nautilus  Club. 

Pastry 

1  quart  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  water 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  butter  or  lard 

This  will  make  5  pies. — Miss  E.  WELCHER,  Hanford. . 

Blackberry  Cobbler 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough.  Line  sides  of  pan  with  dough'. 
Fill  pan  with  berries  that  have  been  thoroughly  washed. 
Put  in  sugar  to  suit  taste.  Add  butter,  also  enough  water 
to  make  a  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  flour.  Cover  with  the  rest 
of  the  dough,  putting  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Cut  dough 
several  places  with  knife.  Bake  in  over  until  done. — MRS. 
WILLIAM  PRINCE,  384  N.  Vernon  Ave.,  Pasadena. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  53 

Pumpkin  Pie 

1  cup  milk 
4  eggs 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon 

1  fourth  teaspoon ful  cloves 

1  pinch  of  salt 

2  cups  sugar 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut 
1  teaspoonful  mace 
1  tablespoon  brandy 

MRS.  LILLIAN  V.  TURNER,  199  Glor- 
ietta  St.,  Pasadena. 

Mincemeat 

1  quart  chopped  apples 

1  fourth  Ib.  suet 

2  teacups  molasses 
1  half  Ib.  currants 
1  quart  of  cider 

1  pint  of  meat 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1   Ib.  raisins 

1  quarter  Ib.  of  citron  cut  fine 

One  large  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
nutmeg,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 

Lemon  Pie 

Bake  crust  first. 

Filling — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Small  cup 
of  sugar,  3  teaspoons  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
water.  1  cup  boiling  milk  boiled  until  thick,  yolk  of  2  eggs. 
Beat  whites  for  to  and  set  in  over  to  brown. — MRS.  J.  H. 
GRAY,  Los  Angeles. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding 

1  quart  flour 

1  half  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter 

1  half  cup  of  sugar 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cup  of  milk 

2  eggs 

One  pint  berries  or  raisins  stoned  and  halved. — MRS. 
CHARLES  WILLIAMS,  Pasadena. 


54  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Water  Lily  Pudding 

1  cup  orange  juice 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel 
Whites  of  4  eggs 
1  half  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  sweet  milk 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Scald  orange  juice  in  double  boiler  with  sugar,  add 
cornstarch  wet  with  milk.  Stir  till  creamy.  Add  lemon  peel 
and  lemon  juice.  Fold  into  hot  mixture  whites  of  eggs 
well  beaten  and  1  tablespoon  water.  Beat  well. 

Sauce 

4  egg  yolks 
3  cups  milk 

1  half  cup  sugar 
Flavor  to  taste 

Add  eggs  to  hot  milk  using  double  boiler. — MRS.  JOHN 
BRYANT,  180  Glorietta  St.,  Pasadena. 

Sauce 

1  cup  sugar 

1  spoonful  flour 

Put  flour  and  sugar  in  pan  and  brown,  stirring  to  keep 
from  burning.  Then  pour  boiling  water  into  it  and  cook 
until  done.  Pour  over  pudding.  Serve  hot. — MRS.  I.  H. 
FORD,  412  S.  Pasadena  Ave..  Pasadena. 

Cold  Bread  Pudding 

Spread  butter  on  pieces  of  bread,  take  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  2  eggs,  1  half  cup  of  sugar ;  mix  these  thoroughly,  pour 
over  crumbs,  allow  to  stand  15  minutes  to  soften,  then  put 
into  hot  oven  to  bake. 

Poor  Man's  Rice  Pudding 

1-2  teacup  rice  (scant) 
1  quart  of  new  milk 
Butter  size  of  walnut 
Sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste 

Bake  slowly  in  moderate  oven  two  hours.  Serve  cold 
with  sweet  cream. — MRS.  S.  A.  WRIGHT,  Santa  Monica,  Cal. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  55 

Christinas  Pudding 

1  cup  molasses 

2  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  raisins 

1  half  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  half  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  currants 

1  third  cup  of  citron 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

Steam  four  hours.  Serve  with  brandy  sauce. — MRS. 
BERTHA  L.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 

Cottage  Pudding 

1  fourth  cup  butter 
1  cup  of  milk 
1  egg 

1  pinch  of  salt 

2  thirds  cup  of  sugar  t 

2  and  one-fourth  cups  flour        «-  .X/l-a^i 

J-  tablespoons  baking  powder     *-  < 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  egg  well 
beaten.  Sift  dry  ingredients  3  times.  Add  alternately  with 
milk  to  first  mixture.  Turn  into  buttered  cake  pans.  Bake 
about  35  minutes.  Serve  with  vanilla  or  hard  sauce. — MA- 
RIE FORD,  Pasadena. 

Cherry  Pudding 

1  pint  flour 

1  fourth  cup  sugar 

Whites  /of  3  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  lemon  extract 

1  third  cup  of  milk  or  more 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
1  fourth  cup  melted  butter 

1  cup  stoned  cherries 
1   fourth  teaspoonful  salt 

Sift  together  the  first  four  ingredients  and  mix  with 
milk  and  melted  butter ;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
dry,  the  extract  and  a  little  more  milk  if  needed  to  make  a 
stiff  dough ;  lastly  mix  in  the  cherries.  Steam  in  a  buttered 
mould  about  3  hours.  Serve  with  cherry  sauce. 


56  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Vanilla  Souffle 

1  ounce  butter 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  ounces  flour 

3  eggs 

1  half  pint  milk 

Mix  flour  and  butter  together.  Maraschino  cherries  cut 
in  half  in  bottom  of  greased  pan.  Pour  souffle  over  steam 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. — MRS.  EVA  CARTER  BUCKNER, 
Progressive  Woman's  Club,  Los  Angeles. 

Cherry  Souffle 

1  cup  seeded  cherries 

1  half  lemon 

4  tablespoons  sugar 
Whites  of  4  eggs 

Three  tablespoons  cornstarch.  Put  cherries  in  stew 
kettle,  add  sugar,  lemon  and  cornstarch.  Let  cool,  then 
add  the  beate  nwhites,  beaten  very  stiff  and  bake  in  small 
molds  in  a  pan  of  water.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  wine 
sauce. — MRS.  MARY  BRADSHAW,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

Rice  Souffle 

FOR  SIX  PERSONS 

4  tablespoons  full  of  flour 

2  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter 

4  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar 
8  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten 
1  cup  of  scalding  milk 
1  cup  of  boiled  rice 
Whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff 

Directions — Put  flour  and  butter  in  double  boiler. 
When  blended,  add  scalding  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  then 
rice.  When  cool  add  whites,  bake  in  moderate  oven  20  min- 
utes till  it  seems  a  firm  puff. 

(Foaming  Brandy  Sauce) 

Put  into  double  boiler,  4  tablespoons  full  of  butter ; 
6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  (let  melt).  Beat  8  eggs, 
yellow  and  white  together.  Add  to  mixture  in  double 
boiler.  Add  brandy  to  taste.  Do  not  put  on  fire  again 
as  it  will  thicken.  (Very  good). — B.  L.  TURNER. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  57 

Me  Co y  's  Milk  Bread 

Is  made  from  Turkey  Red 

Hard  Winter  Wheat  Ft  our,  mided 

vOith  Milk  containing  20  per  cent  Butterfat 


Fred  T.  Huggins 

SHOES 

149  East  Colorado  Street 

Pasadena,  Cat, 

The  Royal  Laundry  Co. 


Phones  69 


The  Largest,  Lightest  and  Most  Sanitary 
Place  in  the  City 


In  a  Class  by  Itself  Wednesday  Is  Visiting  Day 

Fishbeck's 
Confectionery 

ICE  CREAM  and  SODA  WATER 

IN  THE  CITY 

Cor.  Fair  Oaks  and  Colorado 

Pasadena,  California 


58  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

WHITE  AMBULANCE  LADY  ASSISTANT 

.    CREMATORIUM 

Ives,  Warren  &  Salisbury  Co. 

FUNERAL  DIRECTORS 

Both  Phones  75 
COR.  MARENGO  and  UNION  PASADENA,  CALIFORNIA 

FRESH  and  SALT  MEATS  POULTRY  SEALSHIPT  OYSTERS 

Both  Phones  89 

Pasadena  Market 

W.  C.  EICHNEK   ,     ,          ,     ,    PROPRIETOR 

26'28  North  Fair  Oaks  Avenue,  Pasadena,  California 

Hours,  9  to  12,  1  to  4  Both  Phones  310 

FRANK  GIGUETTE 

D.  D.  S. 

307-8  Dodworth  Building          Pasadena,  California 

Home  Phone  207  Sunset  Main  1207 

ARLINGTON 
BAKERY-  RESTAURANT 

S   F.  SMILEY 

Proprietor 

35  East  Colorado  Street  Pasadena,  California 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  59 

Cherry  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar 

1  pint  cherry  juice 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract 

1  level  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 

1  tablespoonful  butter 

Fruit  red  color  paste 

Sift  together  the  sugar  and  the  cornstarch  and  stir  into 
it  the  boiling  juice.  Let  cook  ten  minutes  then  add  the  but- 
ter beaten  to  a  cream  with  enough  red  color  paste  to  give  the 
sauce  the  color  of  cherries.  Add  the  extract. — ETHEL 
MILLER,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Cottage  Pudding 

1  tablespoon  butter 

1  half  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  cup  flour 

|/2  cup  sweet  milk 

Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Bake  in  moderate  oven 

Serve  with  hard  sauce  mixed  with  whipped  cream. 
Set  in  pan  of  hot  water  to  soften  and  flavor. — MRS.  BERTHA 
L.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 

Cream  Puffs 

1  half  cup  butter 
1  cup  hot  water 
1  cup  flour 

3  eggs 

One  half  cup  butter  melted  in  1  cup  hot  water  put  in 
a  small  tin  pan  on  the  stove  to  boil ;  while  boiling  stir  in 
flour ;  take  off  and  let  cool ;  when  cold  stir  in  3  eggs,  one 
after  the  other  without  beating.  Drop  on  buttered  tins 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Filling 

1  cup  milk 

1   egg 

1  half  cup  of  sugar 

Thicken  with  corn  starch  and   flavor  with   vanilla. — MRE. 

G.  TYREE,  Sacramento,  Cal. 


60  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Prune  Whip 

6  prunes 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

White  of  an  egg 

1   half    teaspoon    lemon    juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes.  Soak  several  hours  in 
cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  in  some  water  until  soft.  Re- 
move seeds  and  rub  prunes  through  a  strainer.  Add  sugar 
and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  egg  well-whipped.  Add  prune 
mixture  gradually  when  cold.  Add  lemon  juice.  Pile 
lightly  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Bake  20  minutes  in  slow 
oven.  Serve  with  boiled  custard. — Miss  MARIE  FORD,  Pas- 
adena. 

Prune  Whip 

1  third  Ib.  prunes 

1  half  cup  powdered  sugar 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

Pick  and  wash  prunes ;  soak  for  several  hours  in 
cold  water.  Cook  until  soft :  remove  stones,  wash  and 
chop  thoroughly.  Add  sugar  to  prunes.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff.  Add  whites  to  prune  mixture  and  pile  lightly 
in  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven.  Serve  cold  with  boiled  custard.  (A  delicious  dish). 
— MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER,  891  Molino  Ave.,  Pasadena. 

Hard  Sauce 

1  third  cup  butter 

1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  third  teaspoon  lemon  extract  or  lemon  juice 

2  thirds  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream,  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.     Add  flavoring. — Miss 
MARIE  FORD,  Pasadena. 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding 

2  cups  chopped  apples 
1  half  cup  seeded  raisins 
Grated  rind  of  lemon 

1  cup  of  sugar 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs 
2  eggs 

Spices  to  suit  taste 
Pinch  of  salt 

Steam  for  two  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. — MRS.  MATTIE  QUINN,  2121  Que  St.,  Sacramento. 


FEDERATION*  COOK  BOOK  61 

Strawberry  Pudding 

WHITE  PART 

1  pt.  milk 

4  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Juice  of  one  lemon 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  pinch  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  corn  starch 

PINK  PART 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  of  sugar 

2  boxes  of  strawberries 

3  tablespoons  of  corn  starch 

Put  sugar  on  berries ;  mash  and  put  on  the  stove  to 
heat.  Strain,  set  back  on  the  stove  to  come  to  a  boil.  Add 
butter.  Thicken  with  corn  starch.  Beat  3  whites  of  eggs 
stiff  and  stir  beaten  whites  in  the  pink  part,  then  while 
warm  put  in  the  mould  in  layers,  white  and  pink  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — MRS.  M.  HOLLAND,  810  E.  St 
Sacramento. 

Krunnel  Torte 

6  eggs 

One-half  Ib.  dates 

1  tablespoonful  baking  powder 

1  half  Ib.  chopped  walnuts 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

Beat  eggs  separately,  put  whites  in  last.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Bake  in  two  layers. — MRS.  BERTHA  L. 
TURNER.  Pasadena. 

Marshmallow  Pudding 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  can  shredded  pineapple 

1  cup  sugar 

Vanilla 

Beat  whites  of  eggs,  fold  in  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  can 
shredded  pineapple.  Add  vanilla.  Have  dissolved  1  table- 
spoonful  gelatine  in  1  half  cup  water  and  1  half  cup  boil- 
ing water.  Turn  gelatine  over  eggs.  Divide  amount  and 
color  one-half  pink.  Put  in  layers'  in  a  mould  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored. — MRS. 
BERTHA  L.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 


62  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Vanilla  Sauce 

1  half  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon   corn   starch   or    1    and   half  tablespoon   flour 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  or  1J/2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 
1   teaspoon  vanilla 
Grated  nutmeg 

Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch.  Add  water  gradually,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Boil  3  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
butter,  vanilla  and  nutmeg. — Miss  MARIE  H.  FORD,  Pasa- 
dena. 

Strawberry  Fluff 
1   1-4  cups  strawberries 
White  of  1  egg 
Orange  flavoring 
1  cup  fine  sugar 
Macaroons 
Whipped  cream 

Put  strawberries,  sugar,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  into 
a  bowl.  Beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  stiff  enough  to 
hold  its  shape.  Pile  lightly  on  a  dish  chilled  and  surround- 
ed with  macaroons.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  orange. — LEONYA  JONES,  Nautilus  Club. 

Strawberry  Puff  Served  with  Boiled  Custard 

1  cup  luscious  strawberries 

1  cup  powdered  or  granulated  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  pt.  fresh  milk 
Macaroons 

Prepare  strawberries  and  place  into  a  deep  mixing 
bowl ;  to  this  add  sugar  and  the  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  well 
for  about  20  minutes  when  the  puff  will  be  so  light  as  to 
stand  alone.  To  the  yolk  left  over  add  1  egg  and  beat  very 
light ;  then  place  upon  the  stove  a  saucepan  containing  the 
milk ;  when  this  has  reached  the  boiling  point  pour  about 
one-half  into  the  boil  containing  the  beaten  eggs,  beating 
well  at  the  same  time ;  then  pour  this  back  into  the  remain- 
der of  the  milk.  By  making  boiled  custard  this  way  it 
will  never  curdle.  Flavor  and  sweeten  and  set  aside  to 
cool. 

HOW  TO  SERVE  (TWO  WAYS) 

Chop  fine  some  macaroons ;  place  in  small  berry  dishes ; 
cover  with  strawberry  puff  and  pour  over  all  the  boiled 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  63 

custard.  (Serve).  Without  the  macaroons  serve  the  puff 
and  custard  with  any  kind  of  sliced  cake. — MRS.  E.  CHAND- 
LER, Fanny  Coppin  Club,  944  36th  St.,  Oakland. 

Nautilus  Water  Ice 

4  lemons 

1  can  pineapple 

3  egg's 

4  oranges 

4  cups  water 

4  bananas 

4  cups  granulated  sugar. 

Juice  of  lemons,  oranges,  bananas,  chopped  very  fine, 
pineapple  also  chopped  fine.  Add  to  the  juice  4  cups  of 
water  and  sugar.  After  mixing  all  together  place  in  the 
freezer  and  freeze.  When  about  half  frozen  open  the 
freezer  carefully  and  add  the  white  of  3  well  beaten  eggs. 
Close,  thoroughly  freeze  and  pack.  This  will  make  about 
I  gallon.— MR.  CHAS.  TILGHMAN,  1666  13th  St.,  Oakland. 

Berkeley  Special 

Take  a  small  tin  of  marshmallows,  cut  them  up  in 
small  pieces  and  let  them  soak  over  night  in  a  cool  place 
in  one-half  pint  of  cream.  Next  morning  add  another  half 
pint  of  cream,  a  little  vanilla  and  whip  with  an  egg-whipper 
till  it  stiffens,  after  which  pour  into  small  glasses  and  cover 
with  chopped  walnuts.  If  the  cream  does  not  thicken,  a 
tablespoon  of  gelatine  (boiled)  may  be  added. — LEONYA 
JONES,  Nautilus  Club. 

Cakes 

Sunshine  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  Swans-dawn  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yolks  of  8 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

Add  cream  of  tartar  to  flour.     Sift  the  second  time. 
T)eat  whites  and  yolks  separately.     Add  sugar  to  the  eggs, 
then  flour.  Add  vanilla  last  and  bake  45  minutes  in  moderat 
oven. — MRS.  MATTIE  GRIFFIN,  219  Clay  St.,  Pasadena. 


64  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Walnut  Cake 

6  large  spoons  of  sugar 

6  eggs  beaten  separately 

6  large  spoons  of  chopped  nuts 

1  large  spoon  of  sifted  flour 

1  pint  whipped  cream 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Miss  ETHEL  BRADSHAW, 
Pasadena,  Cal. 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

Whites  of  8  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  corn  starch 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  flour 
Two-third  cup  butter 

Sift  the  powder,  flour  and  corn  starch  together  twice ; 
beat  whites  of  eggs,  cream,  butter  and  sugar ;  add  these 
together ;  whip  in  flour.  Bake  cake  in  layers  an  inch  thick. 

Strawberry  Whip 

Select  choice  strawberries.  Put  sugar  over  them  ; 
mash  with  a  spoon.  Use  whipped  cream.  Put  strawberries 
in  individual  glasses,  then  whipped  cream.  Alternate  lay- 
ers until  glass  is  full.  Makes  a  very  pretty  dessert. — MRS. 
L.  E.  WILLIAMS,  66  Alessandro  Place,  Pasadena. 

Apple  Cake 

l|/2  cup  apple  sauce 

1  cup  sugar 

|/2  cup  butter 

2J/2  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  raisins 

l]/2  cup  walnuts 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

]/2  teaspoon  allspice 

1/2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  of  soda 

|/2  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  1  1-2  hours  in  slow  oven. — MRS.  C.  C.  PRINCE, 
Pasadena,  Cal. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  65 

Plain  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cup  sugar 

2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk 
Flavoring 
Three-quarters  cup  butter 

2  and  one-half  cups  flour 
4  eggs  well  beaten 

Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.    Use  any  kind  of  filling  desired. 
— MRS.  J.  H.  GRAY,  Los  Angeles. 

Angel  Food  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs 

Sugar 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated 

1  cup  Swan-dawn  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add   cream   of   tartar  to   flour  and   sift  second  time. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  sugar  to  eggs,  then  flour 

Add  vanilla  last.     Bake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 
MRS.  MATTIS  GRIFFIN,  219  Clay  St.,  Pasadena. 

Cream  Cake 

MRS.  B.  L.  TURNER'S 

1  cup  of  sweet  cream 

2  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  sugar 

3  eggs,  whites  only 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Makes  one  small  loaf. 

White  Cake  (Good)  No.  1 

One-half  cup  butter 

5  eggs  (whites  only)  beaten  stiff 

3  cups  flour 
Flavor  to  taste 

1  cup  milk 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons    baking    powder 

MRS.  SIMPSON,  Bakersfield. 


66  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Birthday  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter 

Two-thirds  cup  milk 

Three  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

One-half  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces 

One-half  cup  walnut  meat  cut  in  pieces 

One-third  cup  currants 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  brown  sugar 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Two  and  one-quarter  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  orange  extract 

2  tablespoons  sherry 

2  tablespoons  candied  orange  peel,  finely  cut 
Whites  2  eggs 

Follow  directions  for  making  butter  cake  mixtures. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  and  floured  pan  in  a  slow  oven  one  and 
one-quarter  hours.  Cover  with  ornamental  frosting. — MRS. 
ISABELLA  J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco. 

Cheap  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  hot  water 

One  and  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 
1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour 

One-fourth  teaspoon  salt 

Whites  3  eggs 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored. 
Add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating,  then  add  water, 
flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt  and 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  then  vinegar.  Bake  35 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  buttered  and  flour  cake 
pan. — MRS.  E.  WINN,  Pasadena. 

Lightning  Cake 

1   heaping  cup  of  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

1  good  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Sieve  together.  Break  2  eggs  in  a  cup  and  butter 
size  of  an  egg  melted,  then  fill  up  cup  with  milk.  Flavor 
with  lemon  extract  and  bake  in  two  layers. — MRS.  C.  P. 
COOPER,  Los  Angeles. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  67 

Filling 

Four  cups  sugar  boiled  until  it  candies.  Pour  while 
boiling,  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Whip 
until  cool.  Add  one  teaspoon  citric  acid  and  two  teaspoons 
extract  of  vanilla.  Spread  filling  same  thickness  as  cake. — 
MRS.  CHARLES  WILLIAMS,  396  South  Pasadena  Ave. 

White  Cake 

1  cup  sugar 

One-half  cup  milk 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

One  and  two-thirds  cups  sifted  flour 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  sift  baking  powder  and 
flour  3  times.  Add  to  butter  and  sugar  a  little  flour  and 
eggs  before  the  milk  then  the  remaining  whites  and  flour 
gradually.  Thoroughly  mix  and  flavor.  Double  receipt 
if  wished.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Miss  F.  WEBSTER, 
238  W.  Third  St.,  Hanford. 

Metropolitan  Cake 

2  cups  granulated  sugar 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
Whites  8  eggs 

Lemon  flavoring 
1  cup  butter 
Nearly  4  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Bake  a  little  more  than  three-fifths  of  the  mixture 
in  jelly  tins;  to  the  remaining  batter  add,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
one-fourth  of  a  Ib.  sliced  citron;  one-fourth  Ib.  of  chopped 
raisins.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Put  together  with  boiled 
icing. — MRS.  BERTHA  L.  TURNER. 

O.  K.  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs 

1  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk 

Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar 

4  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Flavor  to  taste.    Bake  in  a  loaf. — SELECTED. 


68  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Fruit  Cake 

10  eggs 

12  ounces  of  butter 

One  and  one-half  Ib.  raisins 

1  Ib.  flour  1  nutmeg 

1  Ib.  sugar 

One  and  one-half  Ib.  currants 

Half  Ib.  citron 

1  teaspoon  each  allspice  and  cinnamon 

One-half  teaspoon  cloves 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  orange 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon 

Beat  eggs  all  together  till  light.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  sugar.  Beat  again.  Add  the  eggs,  then  the  flour, 
then  the  spices.  Beat  well.  Steam  and  seed  raisins,  clean, 
wash  and  dry  the  currants.  Cut  the  citron  into  shreds. 
Mix  the  fruit  and  flour  it  well,  then  add  it  to  the  cake.-  Add 
orange  and  lemon.  Stir  all  together,  use  greased  paper  in 
two  pans.  Bake  four  hours.  This  will  make  two  four- 
Ib.  cakes. — MRS.  CHAS.  WILLIAMS,  Pasadena. 

Egg  Cake 

1   cup  butter 

Two  and  a  half  cups  flour 

1  cup  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  heaping   teaspoon   vanilla   extract 

Beat  eggs  until  light;  add  sugar,  cream,  butter  and 
flour  together,  then  add  eggs,  sugar,  baking  powder  and 
extract.  If  directions  are  followed  no  milk  is  needed,  but 
if  dough  is  too  stiff  one-half  cup  of  milk  may  be  added. — 
MRS.  SUSIE  HALL,  Bakersfield. 

Scripture  Cake 

1  cup  of  butter  (Judges  5th  chap.  25th  verse) 

2  cups  of  sugar  (Jeremiah  6th  chap.  20th  verse) 

3J/2  cups  of  prepared  flour  (1  Kings  4th  chap.,  22d  verse) 

2  cups  of  raisins  (1  Samuel,  90th  chap.,  12th  verse). 

1  cup  of  almonds  (Genesis,  43rd  chap.,  1th  varse) 

1  cup  of  water  (Genesis,  24th  chap.,  20th  verse) 

6  eggs  (Isaiah,  10th  chap.  14th  verse) 

A  pinch  of  salt  (Leriticus,  2nd  chap.  13th  verse) 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  69 

FLOWERS     FOR    ALL    OCCASIONS 

Glasscock's 
Flower  Shop 

Both  Phones  227  130  East  Colorado  Street 

Telephones  54 

Charles  W.  Woodbury 

GROCER 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries  Fruits  and  Provisions 

24  East  Colorado  Street 

Both  Phones  847  Table  Furnishings  for  Rent 

Florence  P.  Weimar 

WAITING  and  CATERING 

143  S.  Vernon  Ave.,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

First-Class  Colored  Prompt  Attention 

Waiters  and  Waitresses  Given  All  Calls 

Irish  Lace  Made  to  Order  Special  Attention  Given  to  Alterations 

DRESSMAKING  and  PLAIN  SEWING 

Mrs.  Minnie  Bendowski 

Successor  to  the  New  York  Ideal 

18  South  Euclid  Avenue 
Home  Phone  2974  Pasadena,  California 


70  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Main  7698  Lady  Attendant  Home  F  4995 

Only  Race  Firm  in  Southern  California 

FUNERAL  PARLORS 

A.  j.  ROBERTS,  SON  6-  CO. 

Funeral  Directors  and  Embalmers 

Graduate  Embalmer       Possessors  of  the  Famous  Mica  Knifeless  Method 

1 2th  and  Los  Angeles  Streets  Los  Angeles,  California 

BONDS  LOANS 

H.  H.  GODBER 

REAL  ESTATE 

72  North  Raymond  Avenue 

PASADENA,  CAL. 
RENTALS  .       INSURANCE 

Good  Leather  and  Good  Workmanship  All  Modern  Machinery 

Phone  Main  1080 

H.  JOHNSON'S 

SHOE  REPAIRING  SHOP 

Men's  Dress  Shoes,  Men's  and  Boys'  Elk  Skin  Shoes  in  Stock, 
and  Napatan  Shoes  for  Men  Who  Work 

47  East  Union  Street  -  -  -  Between  Raymond  and  Fair  Oaks 
FIRE    AND    BURGLAR    PROOF    SAFE    DEPOSIT    VAULTS 

Pasadena 
Savings  and  Trust  Company 

In  Connection  with  the  First  National  Bank  of  Pasadena 

4  %  Interest  Paid  on  Term  Deposits 

Safe  Deposit  Boxes  from  $2.00  per  Year  Up  ....  Accessible  9  a.m.  to  4  p.  m. 
Saturdays  9  a.  m.  to  1  p.  m. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  71 

1  large  spoon  full  of  honey  (Exodus,  16th  chap.  318  verse) 
Sweet  spices  to  taste  (1  Kings,  10th  chap.,  2nd  verse) 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  (Amos,  4th  chap.,  5th  verse) 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys  first 
clause  of  the  23rd  chap.  14th  verse  of  Proverbs,  then  bake. 
— MRS.  L.  E.  WILLIAMS,  66  Alessandro  Place,  Pasadena. 

Boston  Favorite  Cake 

Two-thirds  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs 

1  cup  milk 
31/2  cups  flour 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  beaten 
until  light,  then  milk  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with 
baking  powder.  This  recipe  makes  two  loaves  or  one-half 
the  mixture  may  be  baked  in  individual  tins. — MRS.  ISABEL- 
LA J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Spanish  Cake 

Yi  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Yl  CUP  milk 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Whites  2  eggs 

Mix  ingredients  in  order.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  and 
spread  between  and  on  top  caramel  frosting. — MRS.  ISA- 
BELLA J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

2  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  sugar 

2  level  teaspoons  soda 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Yl  teaspoon  cloves 

Yl  teaspoon  nutmeg,  grated 

3  tablespoons  of  chocolate 
1   tablespoon  corn  starch 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together;  add  l]/2  cups  of 
apple  sauce  and  Yl  cup  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven.— MRS.  L.  A.  DISARD,  Mother's  Club,  Oakland. 


72  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

White  Mountain  Cake 

1  pound  sugar 
1  pound  flour 
1  half  pound  butter 
6  eggs 

1  large  cup  of  milk 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar 
1  teaspoon  of  soda 

Juice  of  one  lemon 

Mixing  process — Beat  yolks  and  white  together  first. 
Then  the  sugar,  beat  the  butter  in  a  separate  dish,  and  then 
add  to  the  other.  Take  the  milk,  divide,  and  put  soda  in  one- 
half  and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  other;  just  before  you  put 
in  the  oven  put  both  milks  together.  Bake  one  hour ;  mix 
the  flour  in  after  the  butter. — MRS.  BELLE  Moss,  956  5th  St., 
Oakland,  Cal. 

^Devil's  Food  Cake 

1  cup  of  butter 

2  cups  of  sugar 
Yolks  of  5  eggs 
1  cup  of  milk 

3  cups  of  flour 

1-2  cup  of  chocolate  melted 

1  teaspoon  of  flavoring 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
White  of  5  eggs 

Mix  in  order,  bake  in  sheet,  ice  with  chocolate  or  boiled 
icing. — MLSS  ETHEL  BRADSHAW,  Pasadena. 

White  Mountain  Cake 

NO.  1 

1  teacupful  butter 
I  pint  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  ful  nutmeg 
1  pint  sour  cream  or  milk 

3  teacupsful  sugar 
1  Ib.  seeded  raisins 

1  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon 
1  tea  spoon  ful  soda 

Beat  or  whip  butter  and  sugar;  when  quite  light  stir 
in  flour;  add  raisins  chopped  fine.  Mix  flour  and  spices 
and  add  sour  cream  or  sour  milk  in  which  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Bake  in  buttered  tins  immediately,  1  hour,  in  a 
moderate  oven. — MRS.  MOLLIE  LANE,  Hanforcl. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  73 

Potato  Cake 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins 
1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts 

1  cup  of  grated  chocolate 
4  eggs 

2  cups  of  sugar 
2|/2  cups  of  flour 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  of  allspice 

1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  butter 
1  cup  mashed  potato 

Very  good. — MRS.  R.  H.  HUNTER,  Elevado  Drive, 
Pasadena,  Cal. 

Sponge  Cake 

1  cup  of  sugar 

3  teaspoons  cold  water 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  eggs 

1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

One-fourth  teaspoon  salt 

Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  yolks  till 
creamy  and  whites  till  stiff.  Add  sugar  to  yolks,  then 
flour,  water,  salt,  baking  powder  and  lemon  juice.  Beat 
well  then  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  carefully.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Miss  RUTH  PRINCE,  384  N.  Vernon  Ave.,  Pasadena. 
Cal. 

Velvet  Cake 

"A  WILDERNESS  OF  SWEETS" 

One-half  cup  butter 
Yolks  4  eggs 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
One-third  cup  almonds  blanched 
One  and  one-half  cups  sugar 
One-half  cup  cold  water 
One-half  cup  corn  starch 
Whites  of  4  eggs 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten  and  water.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  corn  starch 


74  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

and  baking  powder  and  add  to  first  mixture,  then  add  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  After  putting  in  pan,  cover 
with  almonds  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake 
forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  —  MRS.  A.  SHAW,  200 
Glorietta  St.,  Pasadena,  California. 


RECIPES 


0-  (L^ctfisi^    /  Q^ru 

V  ' 


5 


A    Lf  JL0a~>, 


, 

/L  djx  ni.M 

^ 
. 


i  o 


v 

L>  &4)  &LS  </  QoJLt 

•/*•  /^ 

\jff/J'~ 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 


75 


RECIPES 

yfe*>v 


76  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

RECIPES 
W  "  £/  ^  /L4£  c 

<-"  cbu  .        ^  ^ 


^     CAsV~ 


^^ 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 
RECIPES 


77 


h 


72- 


' 


x. 
i    i  r~ 

J 


/ 
/? 


78  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 

Cream  Cookies  (Excellent) 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  teaspoonful  soda 

Or  cocoanut 

1  cup  sugar,  1  egg 

1  half  teaspoonful  of  salt 

3  fourths  cup  of  walnuts 

1  half  cup  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine 

1  half  teaspoonful  cinnamon 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat  eggs  with  sugar  and  but- 
ter until  light.  Mix  soda  into  sour  cream  and  stir  alto- 
gether. Add  all  the  other  ingredients  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  very  soft  dough.  Roll  thin  and  bake  ^in  a  quick 
oven. — MRS.  JULIA  ROBERTS. 

Sugar  Cookies 

8  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

7  tablespoonfuls  milk 

3  eggs  and  flour  enough  to  thicken 

6  melted  butter 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
Stir  butter  into  sugar 

Beat  eggs  light  and  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar 
stirring  well,  then  add  milk,  sift  powder  with  a  little  flour 
then  roll  thin  cut  like  biscuits,  grease  pan  with  a  little  lard 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  F.  WELCH ER,  228  W. 
Third  St.,  Hanford. 

Russian  Rock  Cookies 

1  1-2  cup  of  browfa  sugar 
3-4  of  cup  of  butter 

3  eggs 

1  teacup  of  chopped  nuts 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon 

21-2  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins 

Roll  out  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — MRS.  R.  E. 
WELLS,  Literary  and  Industrial  Club,  Pasadena. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  79 

Sure  Gingerbread 

1  half  cup  sugar 
1  fourth  cup  butter 
Teaspoon  soda 
Pinch  of  salt 
Half  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg 

1  half  cup  molasses 
Half  cup  sour  milk 
V/2  cup  flour 
Teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
Half  teaspoon  cloves 

Take  sugar,  molasses,  butter,  sour  milk,  soda  (dis- 
solved in  milk),  flour,  salt,  cinnamon,  ginger,  cloves.  Add 
the  egg.  Stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Miss  LILLIAN  B.  GRAY,  Nautilus  Club. 

Doughnuts 

2  eggs 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  pure  lard 

1  half  pint  skimmed  milk 

Mix  together  well-beaten  eggs,  lard,  sugar,  milk,  bak- 
ing powder  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. — MRS. 
BERTHA  L.  TURNER. 

Doughnuts 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda 

4  tablespoons  melted  lard 
flour  for  soft  dough 

Fry  in  hot  fat. — Selected. 

Walnut  Wafers 

2  eggs 

A  pinch  of  salt 

1  fourth  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

7  tablespoons  of  flour 

Add  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon 
on  buttered  tins. — Miss  SUSIE  SYLMON. 


80  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Walnut  Wafers 

3  eggs 

8  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  fourth  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Vanilla.    Salt 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder, 
vanilla,  salt  and  nuts. — MRS.  E.  WINN. 

Old  English  Cookies 

3  cups  of  flour 

1  and  1-2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter  and  lard 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water 

1  Ib.  nuts  chopped 

3  eggs 

Spice  and  flavor  to  taste 

1  Ib.  raisins  chopped  and  seeded. — MRS.  JOHN  BRYANT,  180 

Glorietta  St.,  Pasadena. 

Plain  Cookies 

1  cup  white  sugar 

1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  half  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  milk 
Pinch  of  salt 

Flour  enough  to  roll  thin 

MRS.  E.  WINN. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  of  oatmeal 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  fourths  cup  butter 

2  eggs 

3  fourths  teaspoon  of  soda 

Dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water.  I  half  teaspoon 
of  salt.  1  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  1  cup  of  raisins,  cut  in 
small  bits.  Make  in  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  bake  in 
buttered  pans.  Tested. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  81 

Mrs.  Turner's  Small  Cakes 

3-4  cups  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 
Whites  of  8  eggs 

2  large  cups  powdered  sugar 

3  cups  of  flour 
1-2  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well,  add  milk  with  soda  dis- 
solved, add  flour  which  has  been  sifted  four  times  with 
cream  of  tartar  and  baking  powder,  add  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  flavor  lemon  juice.  Bake  in  sheets,  cut  in  desired 
shapes,  split  and  fill  with  cream  filling,  ice  sides  and  top 
with  boiled  icing. —  (Decorate). 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  butter  and  lard 

1  cup  baking  molasses 

Boil  until  it  bubbles  up 

When  cool  add  1  large  teaspoon  soda  in  hot  water 

1  dessertspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  egg  just  beaten  enough  to  mix  it.    Flour  to  stiffen 

Mix  day  before  you  bake. — Miss  SUSIE  SYLMON,  Pasa- 
dena. 


82  FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 

RECIPES 


_ 

0 


•^^/^oWU^o1"/^  I  ^VZ"    2  tajrl^  jJ*jn^  ^ 

6          /P  f  0 


o 

/  '  / 


&    w    C)t*<'*^f  '     L-' ''-c  l   *" 
'     — 

d  d  kr  p  u^~>  <  Hv^'NX^x^-x^( 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  83 

RECIPES 


-• 


^ 


84  FEDERATION    COOK   BOOK 

Ice  Cream,  Ices,  Sherbert 

"We  are  such  things  as  dreams  are  made  of." — Shake- 
speare. 

Ice  Cream,  Ices  and  Sherbert — Scald  freezer  and  cool. 
Fill  not  more  than  three-fourths  full.  Pack  with  3  parts  of 
ice  and  1  part  of  salt.  Turn  slowly  at  first  and  as  quickly  as 
possible,  when  it  commences  to  turn  hard.  When  impossi- 
ble to  turn  any  more,  remove  dasher,  pack  down  solidly, 
cover  with  ice  and  allow  to  stand  three  hours. 

American  Ice  Cream — 1  quart  of  milk 
1  cup  of  sugar 
1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla 

3  eggs 

Make  custard  of  sugar,  milk^and  eggs,  cool;  add  flav- 
oring and  freeze. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream — 1  pint  of  milk 
1  pint  of  cream 
1  cup  of  sugar 
1  tablespoon  of  vanilla 

Scald  milk  and  cream ;  add  sugar,  cool  and  add  flav- 
oring. Freeze. 

French  Cream — 1  pint  of  milk 
1  pint  of  cream  or  1  quart  of  thin  cream 
1  cup  of  sugar 
1  tablespoon  of  vanilla 
6  egg  yolks 

Make  a  custard  of  cream,  sugar  and  eggs;  cool,  add 
flavoring  and  freeze. 

To  make  Chocolate  Cream,  melt  and  add  from  2  to  4 
squares  of  chocolate. 

Coffee  Cream — Add  1-2  pint  boiled  coffee,  omit  va- 
nilla.— MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER,  Pasadena. 

Maple  Mousse 

1  cup  maple  syrup 

2  tablespoons  gelatine 

4  eggs 

1  pint  cream 

Put  syrup  on  stove  and  when  heated,  stir  in  the  beaten 
yolks  for  15  minutes,  then  take  off  the  fire  and  stir  until  it 
thickens ;  after  it  is  cool  beat  in  the  whipped  cream  and  pack 
in  freezer.  It  can  be  served  another  way.  Dissolve  2  table- 
spoons of  gelatine  in  a  little  hot  water  very  thoroughly  and 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  85 


Porter's 


Poultry  Ranch 


ROOSTERS  CAPONS 

FRYERS  TURKEYS 

BROILERS  DUCKS 

FOWLS  SQUABS 

Dressed  to  Order 

Strictly  Fresh  Eggs 

Trto  "Deliveries  "Daily 

Home  641  Sunset  941 

GHAFFEE'S 

Ragged  Robin 

BUTTER 
FLOUR 

...    AND    ... 

SPICES 

Make  the  Best  and  Srteetest 
Pastries 


86 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 


AT  THE   SIGN  OF  THE    EYE 

Optometrists  -  Opticians 
SMITH-SIMPSON  OPTICAL  CO. 

N.  E.  Corner  Colorado  and  Marengo  ....  Pasadena 


PLRKIN5  &  LLDDY 
Clothing,  Men's  Furnishings  &  Hats 

1 7  East  Colorado  Street,  Pasadena,  Cal. 


THE 

CARMLLITA 
GROCERY 

Is  the  place  to  get  Fruits  and  Vege- 
tables in  Season 
Prompt  Attention  Given  to  Orders 

240  West  Colorado  Street 

PASADENA.  CAL. 


Both  Phones  839 

William  A.  Lohlker 

Interior  Decorator 

Imported  and  Domestic 

WALL  PAPER  WALL  FABRICS 

CRETONNES       TAPESTRIES 

Drapery  and  Upholstery  Goods 

219  East  Colorado  Street 

PASADENA,  CAL. 


Los  Angeles  Gas 


and  Electric 


Corporation 


64  North  Raymond  Atfenue 


Visit 


Visit 


SHOE  )  CO. 

83  North  Raymond  Avenue  Opposite  Postoffice 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  87 

stir  well  into  the  mixture  and  set  aside  to  congeal;  either 
way  is  delicious.  This  will  serve  ten  persons  well. — MRS. 
L.  PERRY,  492'/2  S.  Fair  Oaks  Ave.,  Pasadena. 

Frozen  Plum  Pudding 

1  pint  milk 

Yolks  of  6  eggs 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

1  small  can  of  pineapple 

1  fourth  candied  or  preserved  cherries 

1  pint  of  cream 

2  cups  of  sugar 

2  tablespoons  chocolate 

3  bananas  juice  of  1  orange 

Make  a  custard  of  the  eggs,  milk  and  sugar,  in  a  double 
boiler ;  melt  the  chocolate  and  put  it  in  the  custard.  When 
custard  is  cold  put  it  in  the  cream,  fruit  and  flavoring  and 
freeze  very  stiff. — MRS.  L.  PERRY. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  milk,  put  it  on  to  heat.  Put  1  cup  granulated  sugar 
in  sauce  pan,  place  on  the  stove  and  let  it  melt  to  a  dark 
brown,  stirring  all  the  time  and  as  soon  as  the  last  bit  is 
melted  pour  into  the  warm  milk ;  beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
and  stir  in  together  with  one  heaping  teaspoon  flour,  a  half 
cup  of  sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  As  soon  as  it  begins 
to  thicken  remove  from  fire  and  add  a  quart  of  cream  and 
freeze  when  cool. — MRS,  BERTHA  L.  TURNER,  State  Super- 
intendent of  Domestic  Science. 

Ices 

1  quart  of  water.  21-2  cups  of  sugar  and  flavoring.  Boil 
water  and  sugar  together  for  10  minutes ;  add  fruit  juice 
to  syrup. 

Lemon  Ice — 4  lemons  and  1  orange,  or  6  oranges  and 
1  lemon ;  or  1  quart  of  strawberries  and  1  lemon. 

Cherry  Ice — Pit  and  crust  two  quarts  of  cherries,  sprin- 
kle with  a  quart  of  sugar.  Add  the  crushed  kernels  of  a 
dozen  cherries  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Add  a  pint  of 
water,  press  through  a  strainer,  and  partially  freeze.  When 
nearly  frozen,  add  the  stiffy  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  finish  freezing.  Serve  in  glasses  with  decorations  of 
fresh  cherries  or  small  candy  water  lilies. — MRS.  KATE 
MANN  BAKER.  Pasadena. 


88  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

The  Parson's  Pineapple  Ice 

1  quart  canned  pineapple 

2  Ibs.  granulated  sugar 
Juice  of  6  lemons 
White  of  3  eggs 

Add  lemon  juice  to  the  pineapple..     Dissolve  sugar  in 

3  quarts  of  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.    Set  aside  to  cool. 
Stir  in  the  fruit  and  begin  to  freeze.     When  about  half 
frozen  open  and  add  the  beaten  whites  and  finish  freezing. 
This  makes  one  gallon. — MRS.  G.  M.  TILLMAN. 

Sherberts  are  ices  made  of  milk  instead  of  water.  When 
the  ice  is  nearly  frozen  add  the  stiffy  whipped  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  finish  the  freezing. 

Strawberry  Milk  Sherbet 

Mash  a  pint  of  hulled  berries,  add  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Stir  until  the  sugar 
is  melted,  then  set  on  the  ice,  meantime  freeze  a  pint  of 
milk  sweetened  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  favor  with 
vanilla.  When  of  a  mush  like  consistency  strain  into  it 
the  fruit  juice  and  finish  the  freezing. — MRS.  K.  M.  BAKER. 

Old  Pacific  Slope  Punch 

For  3  gallons  of  puch,  2  dozen  lemons.  Take  the  juice 
of  11-2  dozen  lemons,  add  2  Ibs.  of  sugar  and  let  stand 
30  minutes,  then  add  4  quarts  claret  wine,  the  other  half 
dozen  lemons  rolled  and  sliced  thin,  add  large  piece  of  ice, 
3  quarts  of  charged  water  and  1  pint  more  of  claret. — MRS. 
B.  L.  TURNER. 

Siberian  Punch 

1  quart  thick  cream 

1-2  pint  white  of  eggs  beaten 

1-2  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1-2  pint  fine  sugar 

2-3  cup  of  best  brandy 

Let  cream  come  to  boiling  point.  Mix  eggs,  sugar,  corn 
starch  together,  then  stir  slowly  in  boiling  cream,  until 
cooked,  let  cool,  add  brandy  when  partly  frozen  and  can- 
died fruit. — MRS.  B.  L.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 

Orange  Frappe 

Peel  sweet  oranges  and  chop  the  fruit  very  fine,  remov- 
ing all  seeds  and  bits  of  membrane.  Add  sugar  to  taste 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 


89 


and  to  a  pint  of  the  orange  juice  and  pulp  a  half  pint  of 
cold  water  and  the  juice  of  two  large  lemons.  If  more 
sugar  is  needed  add  it  now.  Turn  into  a  freezer  and  grind 
until  quite  stiff,  then  pack  down  and  leave  to  ripen  for  three 
or  more  hours.  Before  serving,  put  a  maraschino  cherry  on 
top  of  each  glass  of  frappe.  —  MRS.  KATE  MANN  BAKER. 

RECIPES 


^-t-t^v^ 'CA*J 


iSrjif'ittAs 


•//      ^   0^*$- 


90  FEDERATION   COOK   BOOK 

RECIPES 


J 


fi   ot/i4LM~6L*sw- 

V  £  *  yj 


/6 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  91 

Preserves  and  Jellies 

Jim  Jam 

1  quart  raspberry  juice 
1  quart  Logansberry  juice 
1  Ib.  box  of  currants 
1  quart  blackberry  juice 
1  Ib.  box  of  raisins 

1  doz.  oranges  and  peel  cut  in  little  dice 

One  cup  sugar  for  every  cup  of  juice.  Boil  hard  for 
20  minutes.  Put  in  jelly  glasses. — Miss  FLORENCE  P. 
WEIMER,  Pasadena. 

Orange  Marmalade 

7  cups  of  water 

7  oranges 

7  cups  of  sugar 

Take  7  nice  ripe  oranges  (not  soft)  slice  them  thin  and 
let  them  stand  in  water  for  48  hours,  then  add  sugar.  Boil 
all  together  until  as  thick  as  you  wish  in  the  same  water. 
This  marmalade  will  not  be  bitter.— MRS.  COMMENT  PRINCE, 
318  Kensington,  Pasadena. 

• 

Orange  Marmalade 

5  large  oranges  sliced  thin 
3  quarts  of  water 

2  lemons 

Put  all  in  kettle  and  boil  a  half  hour.  Add  3  quarts  of 
sugar  and  boil  3  quarters  of  an  hour.  Fill  glasses.  Set 
away.  Delicious. — MRS.  WESLEY  MILLER,  Pasadena. 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Select  choice  firm  berries.  Measure  pound  for  pound 
of  the  fruit  and  sugar,  pour  the  fruit  over  the  berries  and 
let  stand  over  night.  With  a  wire  spoon  or  ladle  dip  the 
berries  out  of  the  juice  and  put  on  a  platter  to  dry  in  the 
hot  sun  for  a  day.  Put  on  the  juice,  let  cook  until  thick 
and  ready  to  pour  in  the  glasses  or  jars,  drop  in  the  berries 
and  fill  your  jars,  then  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them  and 
seal.  They  will  be  whole  red  berries  almost  as  bright  as 
when  fresh.  The  same  recipe  is  good  for  any  berries. — 
MRS.  ELIZABETH  ROBERTS,  66  Alessandro  Place,  Pasadena. 


92  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

Orange  Jelly 

Take  12  oranges,  grate  the  rind  of  6.  Cut  the  12 
oranges  together.  Take  7  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  3.  peel 
4,  Cut  the  7  lemons  with  the  oranges,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Measure  the  fruit.  To  each  cup  of  fruit  put  1  half  cup  of 
water.  Put  on  and  boil  40  minutes.  Set  off  and  stand  24 
hours,  strained;  to  each  cup  of  juice  and  1  and  1  half  cup 
of  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes. — MRS.  M.  B.  DANLEY,  502 
Worcester  Ave.,  Pasadena. 

Red  Watermelon  Preserves 

1  Ib.  red  watermelon 
1  Ib.  granulated  sugar 
Ginger  and  lemon  to  taste 

Cut  ripe  melon  in  small  pieces,  take  out  the  seeds.  Make 
a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  add  ginger  root  or  powdered  ginger 
and  sliced  lemons  for  flavoring.  Let  boil  about  15  minutes, 
then  add  the  melon  and  cook  in  the  syrup  until  it  is  trans- 
parent. Seal  as  you  would  peaches  or  other  preserves.  Very 
good.  — MRS.  G.  M.  TILLMAN,  Second  Honorary  President 
of  State  Federation. 

Grape  Fruit  Marmalade 

Take  6  medium  sized  grapefruits  and  put  on  to  boil 
in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender  when  pricked  with  a  fork 
pour  off  the  water  and  when  cold,  cut  unpeeled  into  little 
cubts  taking  care  to  pick  out  all  of  the  seeds ;  measure  pound 
for  pound  of  fruit  and  sugar,  add  one  cup  of  water,  cook 
until  the  fruit  is  clear  and  the  syrup  thick,  put  away  in 
glasses  or  jars.  Same  recipe  may  be  used  for  lemon. — MRS. 
ELIZABETH  ROBERTS,  66  Alessandro  Place,  Pasadena. 

Fig  Sweet  Pickles 

Peel  the  fruit  and  put  in  the  hot  sun  to  dry  for  a  day 
or  two,  make  a  syrup  of  6  Ibs.  of  fruit  to  3  Ibs.  of  sugar, 
1  quart  vinegar,  season  with  spice,  cinnamon  and  ginger, 
add  a  cup  of  water  and  boil  to  a  nice  syrup,  drop  in  the  figs 
and  boil  until  tender,  put  in  jars  and  pour  the  boiling  syrup 
over  them  and  seal. — MRS.  ELIZABETH  ROBERTS,  66  Alessan- 
dro Place,  Pasadena. 


FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK  93 

Stuffed  Dates 

Make  a  cut  the  entire  length  of  dates  and  remove  the 
stones.  Fill  cavities  with  English  walnuts  or  blanched  al- 
monds or  pecans,  and  shape  in  original  form.  Roll  in  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and  pile  in  rows  on  a  small  plate  covered  with 
a  doily. — MRS.  ISABELLA  J.  BARRAUD,  San  Francisco. 

Chocolate  Candy 

1  half  cake  chocolate 

2  cups  sugar 

Cook  in  a  sauce  pan,  stirring  until  done,  then  beat  until 
stiff.  Pour  in  a  greased  pan  and  when  cool,  cut  into  squares 
— MRS.  LILLIAN  V.  TURNER,  Pasadena. 

Peanut  Brittle 

Shelled  nuts 
Granulated  sugar 

Put  sugar  in  a  frying  pan  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  con- 
stantly with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  sugar  is  melted  and 
brown.  Have  the  nuts  on  a  pan  and  pour  the  melted  sugar 
quickly  over  them. — Miss  RUTH  PRINCE,  Pasadena. 

Panoche 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  nut  meats 

2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar 
1  half  cup  milk 

Stir  all  except  nuts  over  fire.  Boil  without  stirring  until 
a  very  soft  ball  is  formed,  when  it  is  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  nuts  and  beat.  Turn  into  buttered 
pan  and  when  cold  cut  into  squares. — Miss  RUTH  PRINCE, 
Pasadena. 


94  FEDERATION  COOK  BOOK 

RECIPES 


INDEX 


Page 

Breads  and  Rolls 24 

Cakes    63 

Cookery  Jingles 3 

Cookies  and  Small  Cakes. 78 

Dedication 1 

DESSERTS— 

Puddings  and  Pies , 50 

Rule  for  Baked  or  Boiled  Custard 50 

Fish,  Oysters  and  Entrees.  ., 14 

Ice  Cream,  Ices,  Sherbert. 84 

Meats • 20 

Menu    4 

Preserves  and  Jellies 91 

Salads 36 

Sandwiches  and  Cheese .  46 

Soups    • 6 

Vegetables 31 


For  Your  Wants  Consult 
the  Following 

Page 

Awnings    9 

Bakery    57,  86 

Bank  10,    25,  70 

Cateress 10,   42,  69 

Clothing,     Men's     86 

Confectionery    57 

Decorator,   Interior    86 

Doctor    58 

Dressmaking    69 

Dry  Goods   10,  25,  26 

Employment   agency    ,.'  42 

Fixtures,    Lighting    41 

Floor    Contractor    9 

Flower   Shop    69 

Groceries  and  Cured  Meats   9,  69,  85,  86 

Hardware 42 

Jeweler    9 

Laundry     57 

Lighting    10,    41,  86 

Meat    Market    41,  58 

Music    26 

Optometrists    86 

Poultry  and  Eggs 85 

Real  Estate  and  Insurance    9,  10,  25,  26,  70 

Relishes     42 

Repair   Shop,    Shoes    70 

Shoes    57,  86 

Tailors,   Sleaners.  Dyers    10,  25 

Undertakers    26,    41,    58,  70 


