TX 


7IS 

P788 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


REMOVAL 


NEW  STORES 


E.  L.  HEWSON, 


7? 


Cloaks,  &;o., 


Se—BROJLDWiA^—SS 


PATERSOU,  N.  J. 


NEW  STORES ! 


REMOVAL 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


OUR  HATTERS 


^ 


Eh 

m 
W 
pq 

W 
W 

W 
m 

n 
o 
o 

o 


o 

M 

Q 
W 

Ed 
W 

W 

w 
o 

CQ 


y/eo^gvTA^^ 


GENTS'    FURNISHERS, 

Near  Main  Street.  PATERSON,  N.  J. 


ADVERTISEMENTS.  HI 


THE  CELEBRATED 


MASON  ^  HAMLIN 

ARE  CERTAINLY  THE  BEST! 

CONSIDERING  THE  QUALITY  THE  CHEAPEST!! 


Sold  for  Lowest  Cash,  or  Rented. 


Illustrated  Catalogue  of  100  styles,  with  net  prices,  sent 
free  on  application. 

Instrnineuts  of  all  otlier  Makers  Fnrnisliefl. 

S.  FRANCISCO,  Agent, 


IV  ADVERTISEMENTS. 


THE  USE  AND  ABUSE  OF  A  WATCH 


nPHE  construction  of  a  watch  being  very  delicate,  it  is  certainly 
very  necessary  that  we  should  use  great  care  in  handling  them. 
It  requires  only  a  very  little  thought  and  careful  attention  to  enjoy  the 
benefit  of  a  watch  in  good  running  order.  It  should  be  attended  to  as 
regularly  in  winding  as  possible. 

The  possession  of  a  watch  has  become  universal.  It  is  not  alone 
for  the  mothers  and  fathers,  but  the  sisters  and  brothers  have  them. 
That  they  are  suitable  for  Birthday,  Holiday  and  Bridal  Presents,  needs 
no  suggestion  from  us,  and  when  one  wisnes  to  give  expression  of 
appreciation  for  services  rendered,  or  of  kindness  received,  a  watch 
naturally  suggests  itself  as  fitting  and  appropriate,  and  whether  it  be 
to  relative  or  friend,  such  a  gift  is  always  acceptable.  The  under- 
signed have  received  the  liberal  patronage  of  the  people  of  Paterson 
and  its  surroundings  for  many  years,  and  it  shall  be  our  aim  in  the 
future  as  in  the  past  to  present  to  our  customers  a  full  line  of  the 
newest  designs  in 

Watches,  Jewelry,  Solid  Silver  and  Plated  Ware, 

FRENCH  AND  AMERICAN  CLOCKS,  OPTICAL  GOODS,  &c. 

Repairing  of  all  kinds  done  on  the  premises,  with  the  assistance  of 
competent  workmen  and  the  most  approved  appliances  to  be  found  in 
connection  with  any  Jewelry  Store  in  the  State, 


Established  since  March,  1864. 


L.  A.  PIAGET  &  CO., 

173  Main  Street, 

PATERSON,  N.  J. 

Louis  A.   PlAOBT.  S.  M.  SCHOONMAKER. 


ADVERTISEMENTS. 


ESTABLISHED    THIRTY    YEARS. 


g4 

^ 

*i 

.« 

^ 

i;^ 
« 

•S^ 

« 

"«; 

^ 

^ 

iS: 

S^ 

s 

*«4 

^ 

%J 

"^ 

.^ 

"^^ 

> 

-5! 

« 
« 

-s 

'>1 

IS 

."^ 

.<« 

» 

.-*• 

<o 

^3 

? 

v> 

<Vj 

<-i 

?^ 

■^ 

\) 

<-5 

^ 

.5 

V) 

^ 

"Xi 

Vj 

<5 

■:< 

^ 

^ 


^ 

■n 

c^ 

O 

73 

Co 

c^ 

H 

X 

^ 

rn 

*""■**♦«» 

< 

:^ 

O 

c 

^ 

z 

:5^ 

o 

~~+.' 

• 

c^ 

It  is  due  to  our  many  country  friends  to 
thanks  for  their  very  libtral  patronage  for  ne; 
pledge  ourselves  to  renewed  efforts  to  secure  and  hold  their  favor  and 
approbation. 


Co 

Co 

thus  publicly  express  our 
iirly  thirty  years,  and  we 


J.W.ENSIGN&SON, 
UNDERTAKERS, 


271  MAIN  STRilET. 

.    PATERSON,N.  J.    * 


A  specialty  with  us  is  the  preservation  of  bodies  without  ice,  when 
so  desired,  thereby  removing  the  prejudice  which  exists  in  the  use  of  it. 


T  i:  L  13  I*  H  O  IV  E:     No.     373. 


JAMES  W.  ENSIGN. 


FERD.  S.  ENSIG-N. 


VI 


ADVKETISBMENTS. 


PCS 

pa 

pa 


Pd 
pa 

t3=l 


BO 

1-3 
CO 


to 

CO 


5=a 


THE   BEST   AND  ONLY  WASHING  COMPOUND  EVER  IN- 
VENTED  THAT  MAKES 

WASHING  m,  CII[iP  AND  QUICK, 

In  Hard  or  Soft  Water,  without  harm  to  Fa'bric  or  Hands. 

Millions  upon  millions  of  packages  are  annually  consumed  by  in- 
telligent housekeepers  in  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  the  demand  is 
increasing. 

By  its  use  the  drudgery  of  washing  is  well  nigh  done  away 
with,  and  delicate  -vrotnen  can  perform  the  work  •with  com- 
parative ease,  especially  in  hot  weather,  when  the  washing  can 
be  done  in  cold  water  without  boiling. 

FOR  HOUSE  CLEANING,  WASHING  DISHES, 

CLEANING    MILK    CANS,    &c.. 

There  is  nothing  to  compare  with  it,  and  its  value  to  farmers  is 
unmistakable.     TRY  IT. 

SOLD    BY    GROCERS    GENERALLY. 

Beware  of  Vile  Imitations,  put  up  under  names  that  sound  like 

I»  3ES -A.  H.  Ij  I  ISr  E3  , 

And  are  urged  by  dealers  because  the^  can  make  larger  profits. 
PEARLINE  is  the  only  SAFE  article,  and  always  bears  the 
name  of 

JAMES  PYLE,  NEW  YORK. 


c^' 


,^^ 


First  Dutch 


COMPILED  BY  THE   LADIES  OF  THE  REFORMED  CHURCH 
OF  POMPTON  PLAINS,  N.  J. 


1883. 


/  \\^    ^■^'     —  'I 


.^' 


^^> 


^  rnPVKTflTTT 


COPYRIGHT, 

1883. 


POLHEMUS,    PRINTER,  VAN   SAUN   &  ARNOLD, 

NASSAU,    COR.    ANN   STREETS,  ENGRAVERS, 

NEW   YORK.  14    JOHN   STREET,    NEW   YORK. 


INTRODUCTION. 


rr^HE  ladies  make  no  apology  in  presenting  to  their  friends 
-*-  this  little  collection  of  recipes,  as  it  is  intended  principally 
for  each  other's  benefit.  It  has  been  hastily  gathered,  but  we 
believe  there  will  be  found  in  it  something  of  the  ancient  hos- 
pitality— the  spirit  of  the  hearth-log  and  crane — for  which  our 
venerable  homes  have  become  proverbial. 

Not  many  dishes  of  the  olden  time  can  be  reduced  to  print. 
We  are  glad  to  crystallize  a  few,  such  as  Roliches,  Souse,  Waf- 
fles, Appel  Koek,  Buhling,  but  the  flavor  of  good  old  Dutch 
cookery  is  not  lost,  so  that  what  we  term  our  modern  dishes 
may  be  sweetened  to  the  taste  of  our  childhood. 

Time  has  forbidden  the  correction  of  individual  manuscripts, 
and  most  of  the  recipes  appear  as  originally  written.  The 
names  and  initials  attached  to  many  of  them  will  disclose  the 
fact  that  we  have  enjoyed  the  co-ojieration  of  ladies  from  be- 
yond our  immediate  community,  for  whose  assistance,  and 
that  of  all  who  in  various  ways  have  aided  us,  we  offer  our 
cordial  thanks. 

PoMPTON  Plains,  N.  J.,  June,  1883. 


"  Of  all  appeals— although 
I  grant  the  power  of  pathos  and  of  gold — 
Of  beauty,  flattery,  threats — a  shilling — no 

Method's  more  sure  at  moments  to  take  hold 
Of  the  best  feelings  of  mankind,  which  grow 

More  tender,  as  we  every  day  behold 
Than  that  all-softening,  overpowering  knell — 
The  tocsin  of  the  soul — the  dinner-bell !" 

— Byron. 


It  is  important  to  bear  in  mind  the  necessity  and  economy 
of  keeping  good  stock  for  soup  constantly  on  hand.  The 
soup  will  be  better  if  the  stock  is  made  the  day  before,  as 
the  grease  may  be  easily  removed — an  essential  item  in  pre- 
paring good  soups. 

To  Prepare  the  Stock. — Buy  a  knuckle  of  beef  or  veal. 
Have  the  bone  well  cracked  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  a  closely 
covered  iron  kettle,  and,  for  a  medium-size  piece,  add  five  or 
six  quarts  of  cold  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
seasoning  to  the  taste,  and,  if  agreeable,  a  small  pinch  of  red 
pepper.  Set  the  kettle  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  after  it 
once  commences  to  boil,  and  keep  it  simmering  gently  all 
day.  Then  strain  into  a  pot  kept  for  the  purpose.  The 
next  morning  carefully  remove  the  hardened  grease  that  has 
risen  to  the  top,  and  you  will  have  a  clear,  rich  stock  ready 
for  use. 

TOMATO  SOUP— No.  1. 

Four  good-sized  ripe  tomatoes,  skinned  and  sliced,  boiled 
tender  in  one  pint  of  water.  Then  add  one  small  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  used  while 
foaming.  Add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk,  set  oflE  and  season 
to  taste  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  A.  V.  N. 

TOMATO  SOUP— No.  2. 

Take  a  shank  piece  of  beef  with  a  marrow-bone.  Cover 
well  with  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  three  hours.  Then  re- 
move the  grease,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken 


6  DUTCH  (reformed) 


with  rice.  Put  the  contents  of  one  can  of  tomatoes  into  the 
soup,  boil  up  and  serve.  One  can  of  tomatoes  is  sufficient  for 
five  or  six  quarts  of  soup.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Christie. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Take  two  good-sized  fowls,  boil  until  very  tender.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  four  or  five  sliced  onions  and  a  little 
parsley.  Have  on  hand  plenty  of  boiling  water  to  add  to  the 
soup  as  it  boils  away.  When  the  chickens  are  done,  remove 
from  the  pot  and  cut  them  up.  Have  ready,  in  a  spider,  but- 
ter nicely  browned  ;  lay  the  pieces  of  chicken  in  and  brown 
them.  When  about  ready  for  use  drop  into  the  soup  four  or 
five  potatoes,  quartered,  and  a  half  bowlful  of  flour,  wet  with 
a  little  cold  water.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Mrs.  p.  Hopper. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Make  a  rich  soup  of  veal,  mutton  or  fowls.  Season  with 
salt,  two  onions  sliced,  sweet  herbs,  a  head  of  celery,  cut 
small.  Boil  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces  and,  if  necessary, 
strain  the  soup.  Then  add  ^  lb.  of  vermicelli  and  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes.  The  addition  of  a  little  pearl  barley  will  be  an 
improvement.  Mrs.  Wm.  Roome. 

GEEEN  PEA  SOUP. 
One  peck  of  green  peas,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  heated 
in  the  kettle  ;  put  in  the  peas  and  stir  them  until  perfectly 
green,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  in  as  much  water  as  you 
want  soup.  Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  add  one 
teacupful  of  milk  thickened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  ; 
put  into  the  soup  two  or  three  young  onions  cut  fine  and  fried 
in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Just  as  you  take  it  up  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  in  a  little  cream. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 
Beat  one  egg  light  ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough  ;  roll  it  out  in  a  very  thin  sheet,  dredge 


COOK  BOOK. 


with  flour  to  prevent  sticking,  then  roll  up  tightly.     Begin  at 
one  end  and  shave  down  fine  like  cabbage  for  slaw. 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Doremus. 

CLAM  SOUP. 
Fifty  small  clams.  Take  two  quarts  of  water  and  let  it 
boil.  Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed  thin  in 
water,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  One  pint  of  milk,  let  boil  to  a 
foam.  Chop  the  clams  fine  and  stir  a  few  rolled  crackers 
with  them  in  a  separate  dish  ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  and 
pepper;  pour  the  clams  in  the  boiling  water  and  let  simmei- — 
the  longer  the  better.  Mrs.  Geo.  Roome. 

OYSTER  STEW. 
Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  dilute  with  water  to 
make  the  desired  strength.  Use  one  half  pint  of  milk  to  one 
quart  of  oysters.  Put  the  liquor,  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  a 
little  salt  in  the  kettle  together  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil. 
When  boiling  drop  in  the  oysters.  Boil  two  or  three  minutes 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Mrs.  C.  Doremus. 

BEAN  SOUP. 
Soak  one  quart  of  beans  in  warm  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  renew  the  water  and  put  on  to  boil  with  a  piece  of 
salt  pork.  When  the  beans  are  soft  take  them  out,  press 
them  through  a  colander,  and  put  them  back  in  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled.  It  improves  it  to  add  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  quartered,  just  bringing  the  soup  to  a  boil  after 
adding  the  eggs.  When  served,  cut  up  half  a  lemon  in  thin 
slices,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  pouring  the  hot 
soup  over  them.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 
Four  good-sized  potatoes,  boiled  with  a  small  half  cup  of 
rice  in  three  quarts  of  water.  Add  three  onions,  two  toma- 
toes, one  large  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  parsley.  Thicken 
with  one  small  half  cup  of  flour  smoothed  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  milk.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

A.  V.  N. 


DUTCH  (reformed) 


BEEF  SOUP. 

Take  about  two  pounds  of  leati  beef,  cut  it  up  in  small 
pieces  and  boil  about  an  hour.  Then  skim  off  all  the  fat  and 
add  two  onions  cut  in  small  slices,  a  carrot,  some  celery  or 
celery  seed  and  rice,  with  seasoning.  When  nearly  done  add 
some  parsley  leaves.  Mrs.  G.  R. 


In  boiling  fresh  fish,  clean,  wash  thoroughly,  wipe  dry,  and 
then  sew  up  in  a  cloth  kept  solely  for  fish,  and  plunge  at  once 
into  boiling  water  that  has  been  first  well  salted.  When  done, 
cut  the  threads  down  the  back  of  the  fish  and  cut  the  skin  of 
the  fish,  so  that  in  taking  off  the  cloth  the  skin  will  come  off 
with  it,  leaving  the  fish  white  and  whole.  Eat  with  egg 
sauce  or  plain  drawn  butter.  When  you  broil  fish,  grease  the 
broiler  with  butter  or  lard  to  prevent  sticking.  Lay  the 
skin  side  down  first.  Fish  that  is  to  be  fried  should  be 
rolled  in  fine  bread  crumbs  or  Indian  meal;  that  which  is  apt 
to  break  in  frying  may  be  kept  whole  by  being  dipped  in  a 
beaten  egg  before  it  is  rolled  in  the  bread  crumbs.  Pork  fat 
gives  a  particularly  nice  flavor  to  fish. 

BAKED  BLUE  FISH. 

Place  the  fish  in  a  well-greased  dripping-pan,  and  after 
sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper,  both  inside  and  out,  place  in 
the  oven  and  bake  about  an  half  hour.  Serve  with  drawn 
butter  and  chopped  parsley.  An  egg  well  beaten  and  stirred 
in  before  adding  the  boiling  water  improves  drawn  butter 
for  fish.  R. 


COOK  BOOK.  9 


CREAMED  SALMON. 
Put  the  contents  of  a  can  of  salmon  in  a  pan  on  the  fire 
where  it  will  heat  without  burning.  Then  scald  one  pint  of 
milk,  thicken  it  with  two  tablcspoonfuls  of  flour  moistened 
with  cold  milk  and  add  one  saltspoonful  of  palt.  Serve  the 
salmon  on  a  hot  flat  dish  and  heap  spoonfuls  of  the  cream  over 
it.     This  is  an  excellent  way  of  using  cold  boiled  fish. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  C. 

BOILED  BASS. 

Wrap  in  a  towel  a  fish  weighing  about  eight  pounds.  Boil 
forty  minutes  in  a  vessel  with  water  enough  to  cover  and  a 
little  salt.     Serve  with  drawn  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 

R. 
SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Two  ounces  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  three  gills 
sweet  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg,  salt. 

Mix  the  butter  and  flour  cold.  Add  the  milk  gradually. 
Put  on  the  fire  in  a  tin  saucepan.  When  it  thickens  add  the 
yolk  of  the  egg  not  beaten.     Stir  quickly.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  T.  C.  D. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

One  teacup  of  well-soaked  codfish  ;  two  cups  of  potatoes  ; 
one  Q^'g  ;  butter,  one-half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Flour  your 
hands  and  make  into  small  balls.     Fry  in  lard. 

Mrs.  W.R. 

CODFISH  CUSTARD. 

One  bowlful  of  codfish  picked  up  fine.  Soak  in  cold  water 
until  nearly  fresh,  put  in  a  saucepan  and  add  boiling  water. 
Scald  (do  not  boil)  the  fish,  pour  the  water  off,  then  take  two 
tablespoonfulfi  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  added  little  by 
little  to  the  flour  to  prevent  lumping,  and  pour  over  the  fish. 
Boil  just  long  enough  to  thicken.  Add  one  egg  not  beaten  ; 
stir  quickly  and  take  off  the  fire  immediately.  A  nice  dish 
for  breakfast.  Mns.  D.  N.  Jacobfs. 


10  DUTCH  (eEFORMBD) 


STEWED  CODFISH. 

Put  the  fish  in  the  kettle  with  hardly  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  about  fifteen  minutes.  Then 
add  a  lump  of  butter,  a  little  cream,  pepper  and  salt,  parsley, 
and  a  little  flour  as  thickening.  Mrs.  G.  R. 

FISH  FRITTERS. 

Take  any  kind  of  cooked  fresh  fish,  remove  all  the  bones 
and  chop  it  finely  with  half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs, 
adding  also  half  the  quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes.  Mix 
into  balls,  after  seasoning  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little 
cream  or  milk,  and  one  egg,  well  beaten.  Fry  the  fritters  in 
boiling-hot  lard  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter,  garnished  with 
water-cresses  or  parsley.  Mrs.  R.  R. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

In  the  first  place  the  cook  ought  not  to  be  hurried.  The 
oysters  should  be  large.  Drain  them  from  the  liquor  and 
lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry  well.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add 
to  them  a  little  melted  butter,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt  to  your  taste.  Dip  the  oysters  in  this,  then  in  cracker- 
crumbs  rolled  very  finely,  then  again  in  the  batter.  Fry  in 
hot  lard.  Have  enough  fat  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  oysters,  so 
that  they  will  not  need  to  be  turned. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Slingbeland. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Put  one  quart  of  oysters  into  a  saucejjan  with  enough  liquor 
to  cover  them,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  well  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  Line  some  patty-pans  with  puff-paste  ;  fill 
with  oysters,  cover  with  paste,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven.     The  upper  crust  may  be  omitted,  if  desired. 

M.  E.  D. 
SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish  with  a  layer  of  oys- 
ters, pepper  and  salt,  with  bits  of  butter.     Then  cover  with 


COOK  BOOK.  11 


finely  rolled  cracker  or  pulverized  bread  crumbs.  Alternate 
each  layer  until  you  have  as  many  as  you  wish  to  use,  making 
the  top  layer  of  cracker  or  breadcrumbs,  dotted  well  with 
small  bits  of  butter.  Add  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream  and 
oyster  liquor.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  brown  nicely.  Do  not 
cook  them  too  long.  Miss  J.  M.  YA^r  Saun. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

For  100  oysters  take  one  cup  of  vinegar,  half  ounce  whole 
mace,  half  ounce  whole  pepper,  two  lemons,  pared  and  sliced. 
Drain  the  juice  from  the  oysters,  add  the  vinegar,  spices  and 
lemon,  and  let  it  scald.  Pour  in  the  oysters,  allowing  them 
to  stand  only  a  few  moments ;  then  place  them  in  a  tureen. 
"Wlien  cold  they  are  ready  for  use. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Take  30  large-sized  clams,  wash  them  thoroughly  and  place 
them  in  an  iron  vessel  or  pot,  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Boil  until  the  shells  open.  Then  take  out  the  clams, 
strain  the  liquor  and  chop  the  clams  fine.  Take  half-pound  of 
corned  pork,  chop  it  fine  and  fry  it  brown.  Take  one  quart 
of  onions,  two  quarts  of  potatoes  (cut  very  fine),  one  quart  of 
tomatoes,  and  six  soda  crackers,  broken  up  ;  add  all  to  the 
liquor,  and  boil  two  or  three  hours.     Season  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Nichols. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Fifty  clams  ;  use  only  the  soft  parts,  cut  into  small  pieces  ; 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk.  Add  flour  to  make 
batter,  as  for  griddle  cakes  ;  half  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder 
being  mixed  dry  with  the  flour.  Take  equal  quantities  of 
butter  and  lard  boiling  hot.  Drop  the  batter  in  with  a  table- 
spoon, and  fry  to  a  deep  brown.  J.  M.  V.  S. 


12  DUTCH  (reformed) 


A 


TO  ROAST  A  LEG  OP  LAMB, 

Slice  salt  pork  very  thin,  leaving  the  rind  on  to  make  the 
piece  as  large  as  possible.  Make  as  many  of  these  thin  slices 
as  will  cover  the  whole  leg,  then  wrap  the  whole  in  grape 
leaves,  pass  a  string  round  to  keep  them  on  and  roast.  The 
lamb  will  be  exceedingly  juicy  and  of  delicious  flavor.  Use 
rich  soup-stock  instead  of  butter  to  baste  the  meat. 

TO  BOIL  A  LEG  OP  MUTTON  OR  LAMB. 

Cut  off  the  shank-bone.  Have  water  enough  to  cover 
the  meat.  If  well  skimmed  the  water  will  make  ex- 
cellent broth  for  another  day.  Lamb  is  neither  good  nor 
healthful  unless  well  done.  Drawn  butter  with  mutton  and 
lamb,  and  cut  parsley  added,  is  an  improvement.  W. 

ALAMODE  BEEP.— Plain. 

Take  a  thick  piece  of  flank  or,  if  more  convenient,  the 
thickest  part  of  the  round,  weighing  six  or  eight  pounds.  Cut 
off  the  strips  of  the  coarse  fat  on  the  edges,  make  incisions  in 
all  parts  and  fill  them  with  a  stufiing  made  of  bread,  salt  pork 
(chopped),  pepper  and  sweet  marjoram.  Push  whole  cloves, 
here  and  there  into  the  meat,  roll  it  up,  fasten  it  with  skewers, 
and  wind  a  strong  twine  or  tape  about  it.  Have  ready  a  pot 
in  which  you  have  fried  to  a  crisp  three  or  four  slices  of  salt 
pork.  Take  out  the  pork,  lay  in  the  beef,  and  brown  every 
side.  When  well  browned  add  hardly  enough  water  to  cover 
it,  chop  a  large  onion  fine,  add  twenty  cloves  and  boil  it  gently 
but  steadily  three  or   four  hours,  according  to  the  size.     The 


COOK  BOOK.  13 

water  should  boil  away  so  as  to  make  a  rich  gravy,  but  be 
careful  it  does  not  burn.  When  you  take  up  the  beef,  add 
browned  flour  to  the  gravy  if  it  needs  to  be  thickened. 

CURRIED  BEEF. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  with  two 
small  onions  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Add 
one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  and  mix  it 
well.  Take  three  pounds  of  the  best  of  a  round  of  beef,  cut 
into  inch  squares  and  pour  in  one-third  pint  of  milk.  Let  it 
simmer  for  thirty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Serve  hot,  in  a  dish  with  sliced  lemon  and  a  wall  of 
mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice  around  it. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Ball. 

The  milk  of  a  cocoanut  and  a  quarter  of  the  meat  of  the  nut 
grated  fine  and  squeezed  through  muslin,  soften  the  taste  of 
the  curry,  and  no  curry  is  ever  made  in  India  without  it. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Cut  up  six  medium-sized  onions.  Put  them  in  a  spider  and 
fry  them  brown  in  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  the 
beefsteak  broiled,  put  the  onions  over  it,  cover  with  a  dish 
and  put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.    Miss  C.  Van  Nkss. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  OYSTER  PIE. 

Take  one  pound  of  beefsteak  and  one  pint,  or  fifty  oysters. 
Beat  the  steak  gently  with  a  rolling  pin  and  season  it  by  rub- 
bing pepper  and  salt  into  it. 

Take  a  deep  pie  dish  and  line  the  upper  edges  with  pastry. 
Put  the  beefsteak  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  lay  the  oys- 
ters over  it.  Put  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  oysters  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  strain 
over  them.     Cover  with  a  rich  crust.     Bake  a  half  hour. 

Mrs.  R.  R. 

CRUST  FOR  MEAT  PIE. 
Seven  cups   of  flour,  one   and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
five  teaspoonfuls  Cleveland's  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  lard. 


14  DUTCH  (reformed) 


enough  sweet  milk  to  make  as  soft  a  dough  as  can  be  conve- 
niently handled.  This  is  only  intended  for  a  top  crust,  and 
is  sufficient  for  two  ordinary  basins. 

Mrs.  Martin  R.  Roome. 

PIE,  OF  COLD  MEAT. 
Mince  any  kind  of  cold  meat  together.  Put  it  about  an 
inch  and  a  half  deep  in  a  platter  and  cover  it  with  gravy.  Add 
salt  and  pepper.  Lay  over  it  mashed  potatoes  smoothed  at  the 
top.  Cut  it  across  in  diamonds  with  a  knife.  Bake  till  it  is 
crisp  and  brown  at  the  top.  Miss  A.  E.  Slingeeland. 

FRICANDEAU— VEAL  LOAF. 
Five  pounds  veal,  two  eggs,  four  ounces  salt  pork,  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Choj)  veal  and  pork  together  fine.  Mix  with 
the  eggs  one  dozen  small  crackers  rolled.  Make  into  a  form 
and  rub  the  outside  with  the  beaten  eggs,  and  sprinkle  with 
cracker  crumbs.  Bake  two  hours,  basting  frequently  with 
butter  and  water.  Miss  Anna  L.  Berry. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  the  flank  or  neck  of  beef  into  small  pieces, 
rubbing  them  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Peel  and  slice  one 
quart  of  onions.  Place  beef  and  onions  in  a  saucepan  with 
just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  and  stew  them  gently 
for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Then  add  one  quart  of  peeled  po- 
tatoes (cut,  if  large),  and  boil  the  stew  until  the  potatoes  are 
soft.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

HASH  WITH  TOAST. 

Toast  half  dozen  slices  of  stale  bread  and  soak  about  half 
a  minute  in  water  with  a  pinch  of  salt  added.  Arrange  on  a 
long  meat  platter.  Put  the  cold  meat,  which  has  been  pre- 
viously chopped  fine,  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  water  and  allow 
it  to  boil  off.  If  you  have  any  gravy  left  from  the  meat,  re- 
move the  fat  from  the  top  and  add  to  the  hash.  Allow  it  to 
boil  a  few  minutes.  A  few  cold  potatoes  chopped  fine  and 
added  before  removing  from  the  fire  are  an  improvement. 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Roome. 


COOK  BOOK.  15 


SUGAR-CURED  HAMS. 
One  quart  salt,  one  ounce  saltpetre,  quarter  pound  sugar, 
for  twenty -two  pounds  of  pork.     Lay  the  pork  on  a  slanting 
board  or  table,  and  rub  the  mixture  on  once  a  week  until  all 
is  used.  Mrs.  J.  .H  Slingerland. 

TO  SALT  HAM. 
Four  gallons  water,   one  and  a   half   pounds   sugar,   two 
ounces  saltpetre,  six  pounds  rock  salt.    Boil  all  together  and 
skim  while  boiling.    Let  it  become  cold  before  putting  on  the 
meat.     Pack  the  meat  skin  down.  Miss  A.  Jones. 

TO  SEASON  SAUSAGE. 
Quarter  pound  salt,  one  ounce  pepper,  ten  pounds  meat. 

A.J. 
ROLICHES.— No.  1. 

After  cleaning  and  preparing  the  tripe  for  use,  cut  it  in 
strips  ;  cut  beef  in  small  pieces,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste  ;  then  put  the  meat  in  the  strips  of  tripe  and  sew 
them  up.  Boil  until  a  straw  can  be  run  through.  Put  away 
and  press.  Mrs.  Thos.  Mandeville. 

ROLICHES.— No.  3. 
Cut  beef  in  thin  strips  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ; 
take  prepared  tri^je  and  lay  the  beef  upon  it ;  gather  over  the 
top  and  sew  together  firmly  ;  boil  until  you  can  stick  a  straw 
through.  Put  this  in  a  large  wooden  bowl  and  press  with 
weights  ;  then  set  away  in  a  pot.  Slice  and  fry,  or  warm  up 
in  vinegar.  Mrs.  J.  J.  M. 

SOUSE. 
Clean  carefully  a  pig's  feet  and  hocks  ;  boil  till  soft  ;  take 
the  meat  from  the  bone  and  chop,  moderately  fine,  season  and 
set  it  away.     Fry  in  vinegar.  Mrs.  S.  P.  Roome. 

TO  SHAVE  SMOKED  BEEF. 
Use  a  very  thin-bladed  sharp  knife,  and  shave  as  thin  as  the 
thinnest  paper.     Do  not  attempt  to  cut  across  the  piece.     No 
matter  how  small  the  shavings  are,  if  they  are  but  thin. 


16  nuTcu  (reformed) 


SCALLOPED  BEEF. 

Take  cold  corned  or  roast  beef  ;  cut  off  all  the  sinew  and 
fat,  and  cut  into  small  pieces  not  more  than  half  an  inch 
square.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  a  crust  made 
of  sea-foam  crackers  crumbed  fine  and  moistened  with  milk, 
then  cover  with  a  layer  of  meat,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  sprinkle  with  bits  of  butter.  Alternate  the  layers,  and 
cover  with  a  crust  of  crackers,  moistened  with  milk. 

Before  putting  on  the  upper  crust,  add  a  cupful  of  nice 
gravy,  or  of  milk  and  hot  water  with  a  small  lump  of  butter. 
Cover  with  a  plate  or  pie  tin,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove  the  covers  and  brown  nicely. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Christie. 


EilS* 


Poultry  will  be  much  sweeter  and  finer  in  flavor  if  allowed 
to  remain  in  cold  water  with  a  little  soda  from  20  to  30  min- 
utes, to  extract  the  blood.  Then  hang  in  a  cool  place  for 
twenty-four  hours,  in  winter  even  longer,  inserting  a  piece 
of  charcoal  to  keep  the  flesh  sweet. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 
Make  a  dressing  with  six  pounded  crackers,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sage,  one 
of  summer  savory,  one  of  parsley,  two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  and  cold  water  to  moisten.  Stuff  the  turkey  with  this. 
Stuff  the  breast  first,  and  put  the  remainder  in  the  body.  Now 
cross  and  tie  the  legs  down  tight.  Run  a  skewer  through  the 
Avings,  fastening  them  to  the  body.  Fasten  the  neck  under 
the  body  with  a  skewer  and  bind  all  with  twine.  Rub  the 
turkey  with  salt,  and  while  in  the  oven  baste  often  with  the 


COOK  BOOK.  11 


drippings  and  flowr  and,  occasionally,  with  butter.  About 
fifteen  minutes  before  dishing  baste  with  butter  and  dredge 
on  a  little  flour.  Allow  in  roasting,  for  eight  pounds,  one  and 
a  half  hours,  and  fifteen  minutes  for  every  additional  pound. 
Serve  with  giblet  gravy  and  cranberry  sauce. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  COOK  CHICKENS. 
Take  two  or  more  chickens  and,  after  cleaning  and  washing 
them  well  in  cold  water,  split  them  down  the  back,  break  the 
breast  bone  and  unjoint  the  wings  to  make  them  lie  down 
better  in  the  pan,  sprinkling  pepper,  salt  and  flour  over  them. 
Put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  chicken,  pour  boiling  water  in 
the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven.  Let  them  cook  till  very  tender 
and  brown.  Put  on  more  butter  and  add  as  much  hot  water 
as  needed  for  the  quantity  of  gravy  desired.  Thicken  with 
flour.  Miss  A.  E.  S. 

AUNT  GITTY'S  OLD  FASHIONED  DUTCH  CHICKEN  POTPIE. 

Vkuy  Nice. 

One  small  bowl  of  sweet  milk. 

One      "         "  thick      " 

Half  bowl  of  fat  soup  of  the  chicken. 

Four  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

One  teaspoonful  of  saleratus.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  all  together.  Then  put  in  the  flour  and  knead 
very  soft.  Do  not  roll  the  crust.  Take  a  lump  of  the  dough 
and  thin  it  with  your  hand.  Have  your  chicken  boiled  tender 
with  plenty  of  juice.  Take  it  out  and  place  it  in  layers  be- 
tween the  crust  as  you  thin  it  out.  Boil  quick  and  eat  hot. 
It  is  better  if  not  allowed  to  stand  too  long  when  done. 

Mrs.  D.  N.  J. 

TO  ROAST  WILD  DUCKS. 

Wash  clean,  and  fill  with  a  dressing  of  bread  and  an  onion 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil  until  about  half  done  ;  then  lay 
them  on  their  backs,  and  spread  some  slices  of  salt  pork  over 
their  breasts,  and  roast.  Mrs.  G.  R. 


18  -  DUTCH  (reformed) 


ROAST  QUAILS. 
Quails  are  very  nice  to  steam  until  nearly  done.  Then  roast 
in  the  oven  to  a  nice  brown,  basting  very  often  with  butter 
melted  in  water.  Mrs.  J.  R.  Evans. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 
To  one  chicken  and  one  pound  of  cold  veal,  chopped  very 
fine,  almost  to  a  paste,  add  one-half  a  chopped  onion,  one 
tablespoonful  of  parsley  (chopped),  one  salt  spoonful  of  mace 
and  one  egg.  Take  the  same  quantity  of  stale  bread  crumbs 
as  of  chopped  meat.  If  you  have  any  gravy  or  stock,  heat 
and  gradually  stir  in  the  bread  crumbs  until  the  bread  absorbs 
all  the  gravy  and  add  that  to  the  meat.  The  mixture  must  be 
quite  smooth  and  thin.  If  not  thin  enough  add  a  little  cream 
or  milk  ;  it  will  whiten  the  croquettes.  Roll  the  croquettes — 
egg-shaped  or  cone-shaped — in  an  egg  beaten  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  milk,  then  in  the  bread  crumbs  dried  in  the  oven. 
Fry  in  boiling  grease  in  a  deep  pan.  When  done,  put  them 
on  brown  paper  to  absorb  the  grease. 

DUMPLINGS. 
Seven  cups  of  flour  ;  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  salt ;  five 
teaspoons  of  Cleveland's  baking  powder ;  one  tablespoon 
of  lard  ;  three  eggs,  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  very 
stiff  dough.  Have  a  pot  half  filled  with  hot  water,  with  a 
large  teaspoon  of  salt  added.  Drop  the  dumplings  in,  cutting 
them  with  a  tablespoon.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes.  When 
done,  split  them  with  a  sharp  knife  as  you  take  each  one  from 
the  pot,  to  avoid  heaviness.  Mrs.  M.  R.  R. 

TO  LAY  MEAT  AND  POULTRY  ON  THE  DISH  FOR  THE 
TABLE. 

Lay  a  sirloin  of  beef  with  the  tenderloin  down,  and  the 
thick  end  toward  the  left  of  the  person  who  carves.  A  loin 
of  veal  or  a  quarter  of  lamb,  with  the  thick  edge  toward  the 
the  carver,  and  the  inside  uppermost.  A  leg  of  veal,  with  the 
inside  up,  and  the  thick  end  toward  the  right  hand.     A  leg  of 


COOK  BOOK.  19 


mutton  or  lamb  in  the  same  way.  A  fore-qnarter  of  lamb  or 
a  breast  of  veal,  with  the  outside  up  and  the  thick  edge  toward 
the  carver.  A  ham,  with  tlie  outside  up,  and  the  thick  end 
toward  the  right  hand.  A  turkey  or  goose  upon  the  back,  with 
the  neck  toward  the  left  hand.  JBowls  on  the  back,  and  if 
there  are  more  than  one,  with  the  legs  toward  the  carver. 

The  sharpness  of  the  breast  bone,  which  is  a  defect  in  the 
appearance  of  a  fowl  on  the  table,  may  be  remedied  in  the  fol- 
lowing way  :  When  preparing  it  to  be  cooked,  take  a  small 
sharp  knife,  and  passing  it  up  the  body,  cut  off  the  little  slen- 
der bones  which  join  the  "  hug-me-close  "  to  the  side.  (This 
is  the  bone  on  each  side  of  the  neck  of  a  fowl.)  Then  push 
down  the  breast  bone  by  pressing  heavily  upon  it.  A  little 
practice  will  make  this  easy.  The  appearance  of  a  fowl  when 
on  the  table  depends  much  upon  its  having  been  handsomely 
skewered.  ( .) 


SAWCEP^  <eilATlMie^  m%m^ 


DRAWN  BUTTER. 
Beat  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  a 
cream,  and  pour  over  this  one  pint  of  boiling  water.     Set  on 
the  fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  but  do  not  boil.     Serve  im- 
mediately._  Mrs.  J.  H.  W. 

EGG  SAUCE. 
Chop  up  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  stir  into  drawn  but- 
ter. W. 
OYSTER  SAUCE. 
Set  a  basin  on  the  fire  with  half  a  pint  of  oysters  and  one 
pint  of  boiling  water.     Let  them  boil  three  minutes,  and  then 


20  DUTCH  (reformed) 


stir  in  half  a  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.     Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.       L. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  two  heads  of  celery,  and  boil  one  hour.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  have  about  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water 
with  it,  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  wet  with 
cold  water.  Boil  this  ten  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve.  H. 

MINT  SAUCE.— (For  Roast  Lamb.) 

Chop  fine  half  a  cup  of  mint  and  add  a  cup  of  vinegar  and 
a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  L. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes  sliced  ;  two  quarts  of  vinegar; 
one  quart  of  sugar  ;  two  tablespoons  of  salt ;  two  of  white 
mustard  ;  two  of  black  pepper  and  one  of  ground  allspice. 
Boil  slowly  two  hours.  Then  put  in  stone  jars,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use  at  any  time.     It  will  keep  very  well. 

Miss  Emma  Green. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 
Make  drawn  butter.     Dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  into  boiling 
water,  cut  it  fine  and  stir  into  the  drawn  butter.  \ 

TO  KEEP  PARSLEY  GREEN. 
Plunge  the  parsley  into  saleratus  water  and  dry  for  winter 
use.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Berey. 

CHILI  SAUCE.— For  Cold  Meats. 
Twenty-seven  ripe  tomatoes  ;  5  green  peppers  ;  3  onions  ; 
3f  cups  of  vinegar  ;  \^  of  sugar  ;  3  tablespoons  of  salt  ;  l^of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.     Cook  all  together  20  minutes. 

Miss  M.  F.  RooMi:. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 
Pick  and  wash  the  cranberries  and  put  in  the  preserving 
kettle  with  half  a  pint  of  water  on  each  quart  of  berries.    Put 


COOK  BOOK.  21 


sugar  over  the  berries,  allowing  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of 
berries.  Set  on  the  fire  and  stew  about  half  an  hour.  Stir 
often  to  prevent  burning.  They  will  not  need  straining  and 
will  preserve  their  rich  color,  cooked  in  this  way.  Less  sugar 
may  be  used  if  you  do  not  wish  them  very  rich.     ( .) 

ROAST  MEAT  GRAVY. 

Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  Add  half  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  if  there  is  about  that  amount  in  the  pan.  Mix  one 
teaspoonful  of  browned  flour  with  cold  water,  enough  to 
make  a  thin  paste.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling  gravy.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Strain  and  serve.  ( .) 

ROAST  POULTRY  GRAVY. 
Boil  the  heart,  gizzard,  liver  and  neck  in  two  quarts  of 
water  two  hours.  Then  take  them  up,  chop  finely  and  put 
them  back  in  the  water  again.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  wet  with  cold  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Let  this  simmer  one  hour  longer,  and  when  you  dish  the 
poultry,  turn  the  drippings  into  this  gravy.  Boil  up  once 
and  send  to  the  table.  * 

BAKED  DRESSING. 
Half  loaf  of  stale  bread;  3  pints  of  milk;  3  eggs.  Break  the 
bread  into  the  milk  and  allow  it  to  stand  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  until  thoroughly  soaked.  Then  beat  with  a  fork  until 
fine,  add  the  eggs,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  butter 
half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  about  half  an  hour.  To  be 
eaten  with  poultry  or  roasts.  Mrs.  Martin  R.  Roome. 

TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 
It  is  well  to  brown  a  quart  of  flour  at  once.  Spread  upon 
a  tin  plate  and  set  in  the  stove  or  on  the  top.  Stir  it  often, 
lest  it  should  bum.  When  it  is  a  light  brown  all  through 
put  it  into  a  jar  or  wide-mouthed  bottle.  Shake  up  every  few 
days  to  keep  it  light  and  prevent  lumping.  W. 


22  DUTCH  (rEFOEMEd) 


®A»ew^p  Mmm  wEmmmmm® 


TOMATO  CATSUP.— No.  1. 
Take  1  bushel  ripe  tomatoes  and  boil  them  in  a  porcelain 
or  tin  kettle  until  they  are  soft.  Squeeze  them  first  through 
a  colander,  then  through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  the  juice  into  the 
kettle,  boil  down  one  quarter  and  add  2  qts.  cider-vinegar,  -^ 
pt.  salt,  2  oz.  cloves,  |  lb.  allspice,  ^  oz.  cayenne  pepper,  3 
tablespoons  black  pepper,  1  dozen  onions  cut  fine.  Mix  and 
boil  till  reduced  to  the  thickness  you  wish.  Bottle  without 
straining.  Mrs.  W.  Roome. 

TOMATO  CATSUP.— No.  2. 
One  peck  of  tomatoes.  Boil  a  few  minutes  until  the  skin 
separates  from  the  pulp.  Then  strain  and  add  1  qt.  of  vinegar 
with  salt  to  taste  ;  a  scant  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
1  oz.  of  whole  cloves.  Boil  slowly  from  seven  to  ten  hours, 
or  until  quite  thick.     Tie  the  cloves  in  a  cloth. 

Mrs.  Munson  Van  Ness. 

TOMATO  CHOW-CHOW.— No.  1. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  ;  one  dozen  onions.  Chop  fine 
together,  sprinkle  over  it  one  pint  of  salt  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  Then  drain  oif  the  brine,  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with 
vinegar,  add  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of  mustard, 
two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  allspice 
and  one  of  pepper.  Cook  slowly  two  hours.  Pack  in  glass  cans. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Slingerland. 

TOMATO  CHOW-CHOW.— No.  2. 
Half   bushel   of  green  tomatoes  ;   one  dozen  onions  ;  half 
dozen  green  peppers.  Chop  all  very  tine  and  sprinkle  one  pint 


COOK  BOOK.  23 


of  salt  over  them  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  off  the  brine  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar 
and  water.  Boil  slowly  one  houi-,  then  drain  again.  Take  two 
tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  and  one  each  of  allspice,  pepper  and 
cloves  ;  half  cup  of  white  mustard,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
and  one  gallon  of  vinegnr.  Pour  the  mixture  boiling  hot  over 
the  tomatoes,  stirring  well.     Put  in  jars  and  cover  tight. 

Mrs.  Lucas  M.  Rteeson. 

TOMATO  BUTTER. 
Twelve  pounds   ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  boiled  till  thick. 
Then  add  four  pounds  brown    sugar,  one  tablespoon  of   salt, 
one  of  ground  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon  and  one  pint  of  good 
vinegar.     Then  boil  them  till  quite  thick. 

Miss  M.  F.  Van  Houten. 

To  prevent  scum  from  rising  on  pickles,  put  a  small  piece  of 
horseradish  in  the  jar.  M.  F.  V. 

PICKLED  TOMATOES.— Very  Nice. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  one  cup  of 
salt  sprinkled  through  them.  Let  them  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  squeeze  off  the  juice.  Take  three  green  peppers 
chopped  fine,  ten  large  onions  sliced,  half  cup  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  ciip  of  molasses. 
Sprinkle  all  of  these  through  the  tomatoes  in  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  vinegar.  Simmer  or  boil  slowly  one  hour  or  more, 
covered  closely  with  a  dish.     Put  in  a  stone  jar  for  use. 

Mrs.  D.  N.  Jacobus. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  one  head  of  cabbage,  two 
dozen  cucumber  pickles,  two  small  or  one  large  cauliflower, 
four  large  green  peppers,  without  seeds,  one  quart  of  white 
onions,  one  quart  of  string  beans,  one-quarter  pound  of  ground 
mustard,  two  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed.  Salt  to  taste  and 
vinegar.     Simmer  until  sufficiently  cooked.  J.  V.  R.  R. 


24  DUTCH  (reformed) 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Take  over  a  quart  of  small  white  or  yellow  onions.  Peel 
off  the  outer  skins.  Make  a  brine  of  boiling  water  and  salt 
to  float  an  egg  ;  pour  it  over  the  onions  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  having  scalded  a  pint 
of  vinegar  with  a  broken  nutmeg  and  a  few  blades  of  mace, 
pour  it  over  the  onions  hot.  Put  in  a  quart  can  or  bottle  and 
seal.     They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  week. 

Miss  H.  A.  Morehouse. 

BLACKBERRY  PICKLES. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one 
ounce  unground  cinnamon,  one  ounce  unground  cloves,  ten 
pounds  blackberries.  Heat  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spice; 
cook  the  berries  until  done,  then  skim  them  out.  Boil  the  syrup 
down  qtiite  rich.  Mrs.  Ida  R.  DeMott. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

Seven  pounds  grapes,  three  and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  one  pint 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon.  Pulp 
the  grapes,  heat  and  strain  through  the  colander  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Boil  until  quite  tender,  and  skim.  Then  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  boil  until  quite  thick.  It  will  keep  well  in 
glass  cans  that  will  not  do  for  other  fruit.  Very  good  with 
cold  meats.  Mrs.  D.  N.  J. 

PLAIN  CUCUMBER  PICKLES.— Canned. 

Put  the  small  cucumbers  to  soak  for  twenty-four  hours  in 
salt  and  water  that  will  bear  an  egg.  Then  take  them  out  and 
wash  them  off.  Put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with 
vinegar  and  water  in  equal  quantities.  Stand  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  for  half  a  day,  at  no  time  allowing  the  liquor  to  get 
so  warm  you  cannot  bear  the  finger  in.  Then  pack  tightly  in 
fruit  jars,  adding  one  teaspoon  of  mustard  seed,  and  half  of  a 
long  red  pepper  to  a  quart  jar.  Stand  the  jars  near  the  stove 
to  keep  warm  while  you  boil  the  kettle  half  full  of  vinegar 


COOK  BOOK.  26 


diluted  with  water.  Pour  this  into  the  jar,  filling  them  very 
full,  and  seal  immediately.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  have 
them  too  sour.  Mrs.  M.  R.  R. 

PEPPER  HASH. 

Take  one  large  head  of  cabbage,  six  green  peppers  and 
twenty  medium  sized  cucumbers.  Chop  the  cabbage  very 
fine  ;  sprinkle  six  ounces  of  salt  over  it  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  Chop  it  all  very  fine,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed  and  one  ounce  of  English  mustard  seed.  Cover  the  whole 
with  vinegar.  Mrs.  Alice  Van  Saun. 

PICKLED  FRUIT. 
Five  pounds  fruit,  two  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one 
ounce  cloves,  quarter  ounce  mace,  one  ounce  cinnamon  bark. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  spice  in  the  vinegar.  Pour  it  boiling  hot 
on  the  fruit,  then  pour  it  off.  Boil  it  for  six  successive  days; 
the  last  time  put  the  fruit  in  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Pears 
and  quinces  must  be  boiled  soft  before  pickling. 

Mrs.  N.  J.  DoREMUs. 

FRENCH  PICKLES. 
One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions  sliced.  Lay 
them  in  a  jar  or  pan.  Sprinkle  a  cup  of  salt  over  them.  Let 
them  stand  over  night  and  drain  off  in  the  morning.  Boil 
them  in  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  of  vinegar  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes ;  then  drain  in  a  colander.  Take  four 
quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound 
of  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoons  of  black  mustard  seed 
and  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon.     Miss  J.  M.  Van  Saun. 

PICKLED  NASTURTIUMS. 
Gather  the  seeds  while  green  and  let  them  lie  a  few  days  ; 
then  throw  them  into  vinegar.  They  need  no  spice  except  a 
little  salt,  being  themselves  sufficiently  spicy.  Boil  the  vine- 
gar and  pour  on  them.  Tiiey  are  considered  by  many  better 
than  capers,  and  are  much  like  them.  They  should  be  kept 
8ix  mouths,  covered  close,  before  they  are  used.  W. 


26  DUTCH  (reformed) 


PICKLED  WALNUTS. 

Gather  them  between  the  twenty-fifth  and  thirtieth  of  June. 
Make  a  brine  of  boiled  salt  and  water  strong  enough  to  bear 
an  egg  after  it  is  cold.  Skim  while  it  boils.  Pour  it  on  the 
nuts  and  let  them  lie  in  it  for  twelve  days.  Then  drain  them, 
lay  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  them  the  best  cider  vinegar 
boiled  with  pepper-corns,  cloves,  allspice,  mustard,  ginger, 
mace  and  horse-radish.  This  should  be  cooled  before  it  is 
poured  on.  Cover  close,  and  keep  them  a  year  before  using. 
The  vinegar  becomes  an  excellent  catsup,  by  many  persons 
preferred  to  any  other.  H. 


CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  1. 
Two  chickens.  Boil  till  very  tender,  and  skin  and  cut  up  in 
small  squares  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  Two  heads  of  lettuce; 
after  washing,  dry  with  a  napkin.  A  layer  of  chicken,  then 
a  few  pieces  of  lettuce  ;  then  sprinkle  a  little  vinegar  from 
the  bottle  of  capers,  also  a  few  capers  and  olives,  and  so  on  till 
the  dish  is  filled  ;  each  layer,  pouring  on  the  dressing. 

Dressing. — Yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  a  very  little  cayenne  pep- 
per and  salt ;  ^  of  a  large  bottle  of  olive  oil ;  \  cruet  of  vine- 
gar. Beat  the  yolks  and  add  first  the  oil  and  then  the  vinegar 
a  little  at  a  time  until  stiff.  This  dressing  must  be  stirred 
all  one  way.  R. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.— No.  3. 

Mince  finely  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken  previously  well 
boiled.  Take  blanched  crisp  celery  and  chop  fine.  With  one 
measure  of  chicken  put  two  of  celery,  or  if  celery  is  not  plenty, 
one  measure  each  of  celery  and  finely  chopped  cabbage. 


COOK  BOOK.  27 


Dressing. — Rub  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  hard  boiled 
eggs  smooth  ;  to  each  yolk  put  half  a  teaspoon  of  oil  and  half 
a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Mix  the  chicken  and  celery  just  before 
it  is  to  be  served  ;  pour  on  the  dressing  ;  cut  the  boiled  whites 
of  the  eggs  in  rings  and  lay  on  the  top,  garnishing  also  with 
the  smaller  leaves  of  celery  and  parsley.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 
One  can  of  lobster  ;  one  bunch  of  celery  ;  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  black  pepper,  red  pepper,  mustard,  and  two  of  vinegar, 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard.  J.  M.  V.  S. 

CHICKEN  OR  LOBSTER  SALAD. 
Half  a  bottle  of  Geirster's  olive  oil ;  four  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately ;  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  ;  salt,  pep- 
per and  mustard  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  thor- 
oughly ;  add  the  oil,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  stirring  it  in 
gradually.  Continue  until  it  becomes  thick  ;  then  add  salt, 
dry  mustard,  and  pepper.  Add  the  vinegar  ;  and  lastly  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  well  after  adding  the 
whites.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Mandevillb. 

DUTCH  SAUCE  FOR  LETTUCE. 
Cut  some  fat  salt  ham  in  small  pieces  and  fry  brown. 
Beat  up  an  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  quart 
bowl ;  fill  the  bowl  nearly  full  with  vinegar  and  water  ;  pour 
it  into  the  pan  and  stir  until  it  boils.  To  be  eaten  warm,  not 
hot.  Mrs.  G.  R. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 
One  head  of  fine  white  cabbage,  minced  fine  ;  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  ;  two  tablespoons  of  salad  oil ;  two  tablespoons  of 
white  sugar  ;  one  teaspoon  of  salt;  one  teaspoon  of  pepper; 
one  teaspoon  of  made  mustard  ;  one  teacup  of  vinegar.  Mix 
as  for  lettuce  and  pour  upon  the  chopped  cabbage.  Cut  the 
eggs  in  slices  and  lay  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  Austin  Doremus. 


28  DUTCH  (bEFORMED) 


POTATO  SALAD.— Nice  for  Supper. 

Chop  fine  one  onion  ;  add  twelve  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
When  quite  fine,  place  in  a  dish;  melt  one  tablespoonfnl  of 
butter  and  pour  over  it.  Salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  etc.,  at  table 
to  suit  taste.  Mrs.  S.  S.  Slingerland. 

A  good  dressing  or  sauce  for  almost  every  kind  of  salad  or 
fish  is  made  by  taking  the  yolks  of  two  boiled  eggs,  mash 
them  with  a  little  mustard  and  oil  (or  melted  butter),  and 
a  little  sugar  and  salt,  adding  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar.  Mrs.  W.  R. 


All  green  vegetables  must  be  washed  thoroughly  in  cold 
water  and  then  dropped  into  water  which  has  been  salted  and 
is  just  beginning  to  boil.  The  time  of  boiling  green  vegeta- 
bles depends  very  much  upon  their  age  and  how  long  they 
have  been  gathered,  the  younger  and  fresher  the  more  quick- 
ly they  are  cooked. 

^TIME-TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  boiled 30  minutes. 

«         baked 45       " 

Squash,      boiled 25       " 

"  baked 45       " 

Green  peas,  boiled 20  to  40       " 

Shelled  beans,  « 60       " 

String       "         '*     1  to    2  hours. 

Green  corn 25  to  60  minutes. 

Asparagus 15  to  30       " 


COOK  BOOK.  29 


Spinach - Ito  2  hours. 

Tomatoes  (fresh) --- 1  " 

«         (canned) i  " 

Onions Ito  2  " 

Beet  Greens -- 1  " 

Cabbage. I  to  2  « 

Cauliflower -  1  to  2  " 

Parsnips " 

Carrots.. " 

POTATO  PUFF. 

Boil  and  mash  four  good-sized  potatoes  ;  then  add  one 
quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter,  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  or  one  half  teaspoon  of  soda, 
and  a  little  salt.  To  be  dropped  with  a  spoon  in  boiling  lard. 
Serve  hot.  Miss  Ida  Dokemus. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  some  raw  potatoes  very  thin.  Lay  them  in 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour  ;  wipe  dry  between  two  cloths, 
spreading  them  on  one  and  pressing  the  other  upon  them. 
Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan  some  boiling  lard  ;  fry  a  light 
brown  ;  take  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  brown,  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer  ;  put  in  the  colander  and  shake  for  an  in- 
stant ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve. 

Potatoes  are  very  much  improved  by  standing  in  cold  water 
an  hour  before  boiling.  Mrs.  G.  R. 

TO  COOK  GREEN  BEANS  IN  AN  HOUR. 

Cut,  and  put  in  the  pot  with  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  but- 
ter ;  let  steam  half  an  hour,  then  cover  with  water  and  cook 
half  an  hour.  Mrs.  T.  Ryeeson. 

STEWED  ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  the  asparagus  in  lengths  of  not  quite  two  inches  ;  put 
them  in  boiling  water,  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Cook 
until  soft.  Miss  C.  Van  Ness. 


30  DUTCH  (reformed) 


SCALLOPED    ONIONS. 

Six  large  onions,  sliced  and  cooked  half  an  hour.  Butter  a 
baking  dish  well  and  throw  fine  bread  crumbs  about  it  until 
they  adhere  on  all  sides.  Have  a  bowl  of  bread  crumbs  ready, 
seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  with  onions  ;  sprinkle  crumbs  over  them  and  small  pieces 
of  butter  ;  then  another  layer  of  onions,  covered  in  the  same 
way,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  the  last  layer  rather  more 
thickly  with  crumbs,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  and  bake  until 
nicely  browned.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Doremus. 

TO  BOIL  MACARONI. 
Boil  about  20  minutes  in  plenty  of  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  take  from  the  fire  and  strain  through  a  colander  ; 
then  add  three  small  onions  and  tomato,  previously  cooked  ; 
boil  all  together  about  ten  minutes  ;  add  a  lump  of  butter, 
and  season  to  taste.  J.  V.  R.  R. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 
Four  ears  of  corn,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  corn-starch 
or  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  sugar.  ( .) 

AUNTY'S  CORN  CAKES. 

One  dozen  ears  sweet  corn  that  is  not  too  young.     Cut  the 

kernels  by  drawing  a  knife  through  each  row  on  the  cob  ;  then 

scrape  it  out ;  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  with  flour  enough  to 

thicken.     Salt  to  taste.     Fry  in  cakes,  with  butter  and  lard. 

Miss  Emily  Slingerland. 

PARSNIP  OYSTERS. 
Boil  the  parsnips  until  tender  and  mash  well.  To  a  pint  of 
parsnips  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  add  flour  enough  to  hold  the  mix- 
ture together.  Make  into  small  flat  balls.  Fry  in  butter  till 
brown.  Mrs.  H.  Julius  Smith. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE. 
Boil  half  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  water  sufficient  to 
cover  :  when   tender   drain  off.     Put  half   of   the  macaroni 


COOK  BOOK.  31 


in  a  small  pudding-dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese, 
a  little  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  the  remainder 
of  the  macaroni  and  proceed  in  the  same  manner.  Beat  two 
eggs  light  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  ;  pour  over 
and  bake  till  brown,  or  about  30  minutes.      Mks.  M.  R.  R. 

ARTIFICIAL  OYSTERS. 

Ten  ears  of  green  corn,  gi-ated.  To  a  pint  of  corn,  add  one 
egg,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  one  small  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.     Fry  in  small  cakes.     When  eaten,  butter  well. 

Miss  M.  F.  Roome. 

GREEN  CORN  PATTIES. 
Grate  as  much  corn  as  will  make  one  pint ;  add  one  teacup- 
ful    of  flour,   one  of    butter,  one    egg,  pepper  and    salt  to 
taste.     If  too  thick,  add  a  little  milk.     Fry  in  butter. 

Mrs,  Geo.  Demarest. 

MACARONI  PUDDING.— With  Meats. 

Simmer  one-quarter  pound  of  macaroni  in  water  until  it  is 
tender.  Strain  off  the  water  and  add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream, 
one  ounce  of  grated  cheese  and  salt.  Mix  well  together,  and 
strew  over  the  top  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese  and  crumbs  of 
bread.  In  baking,  brown  it  well  on  the  top.  It  will  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  in  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

BROWNED  OR  FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Select  nice  large  tomatoes  which  will  cut  nicely  in  two 
pieces ;  flour  them  and  place  them,  skin  side  down  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan in  which  a  small  quantity  of  lard  has  been  melted. 
Sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  "When  they  have 
browned  on  one  side  turn  them  carefully  and  let  them  brown 
again.     Serve  hot.  W.  J. 

VEGETABLES  AND  SAUCES  FOR  DIFFERENT  MEATS. 
Potatoes  are  good  with  all  meats.     With  fowls  they  are 
nicest  mashed.     Sweet  potatoes  are  most  appropriate  with 


32  DUTCH  (rEPOBMED) 


roast  meats,  as  also  are  onions,  winter  squash,  cucumbers  and 
asparagus. 

Carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  greens  and  cabbage  are  eaten 
with  boiled  meats,  and  corn,  beats,  peas  and  beans  are  appro- 
priate with  either  boiled  or  roasted  meat.  Mashed  turnips 
are  good  with  roasted  pork  and  with  boiled  meats. 

Tomatoes  are  good  with  every  kind  of  meat,  but  especially 
with  roasts.  Apple  sauce  with  roast  pork ;  cranberry  sauce 
with  beef,  fowls,  veal,  and  ham  ;  currant  jelly  is  most  appro- 
priate with  roast  mutton.  Pickles  are  good  with  all  roast 
meats,  and  capers  or  nasturtiums  with  boiled  lamb  or  mutton. 
Horse  radish  and  lemons  are  excellent  with  veal. 

Among  the  little  things  which  are  worthy  the  attention  of 
the  housekeeper  is  that  of  having  the  dinner  served  hot.  It 
is  often  the  case  that  a  well-cooked  dinner  loses  much  of  its 
excellence  by  want  of  care  in  this  particular.  All  the  meat 
and  vegetable  dishes  should  be  heated,  and  in  winter  the 
plates  should  also  be  warmed.  ( .) 


COOK  BOOK.  33 


m^^m® 


EGG  ON  TOAST. 
Brown  a  slice  of  bread  nicely  over  the  coals  ;  while  doing 
this,  break  an  egg  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  and  let  it 
stand  over  the  fire  till  the  white  hardens  ;  butter  the  toast ; 
take  lip  the  egg  with  a  skimmer.  Lay  on  toast,  dust  with 
pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter,  and  serve  while  hot. 

Miss  Emeline  Doeemus. 

POACHED  EGGS. 
The  eggs  should  be  fi-esh.  Have  the  boiling  water  in  a 
shallow  pan,  break  the  eggs  separately  in  a  saucer  and  slip 
gently  into  the  boiling  water  ;  when  all  are  in  the  water  place 
the  pan  over  the  fire  until  the  white  of  each  is  perfectly  set ; 
remove  with  a  slicer,  and  lay  on  buttered  toast  or  broiled 
ham.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Christie. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS. 
Boil   eggs   hard ;   cut   them   in   two,  lengthwise ;   dispose 
neatly  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  yolks  uppermost ;  pour  over 
them  simple  drawn  butter.     Ornament  with  parsley  or  any 
other  green  you  may  happen  to  have. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Doremus. 

SALAD  EGGS. 
Take  twelve  eggs  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Then  plunge  them 
into  cold  water,  as  the  shells  will  then  peel  off  more  readily. 
Put  again  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Cut  them 
in  halves.  Mash  the  yolk  into  a  fine  powder,  season  accord- 
ing to  taste  with  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  mustai'd  and  oil  or 
melted  butter.     A  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  is  an  improve- 


34  DUTCH  (reformed) 


raent  for  some  palates.  Mix  all  to  the  consistency  of  a  smooth 
stilf  paste.  When  ready  for  use,  fill  the  halves  with  the  dress- 
ing, and  garnish  with  parsley  or  imbed  in  a  dish  of  lettuce. 

Miss  J.  M.  Van  Saun. 

OMELETTE.— No.  1. 

Six  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  separately,  adding  to  them  one 
teacup  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  the  whites  very 
light,  stir  quickly  through  the  yolks,  ind  turn  into  a  well 
greased  and  hot  frying-pan.  Mrs.  S.  Stiles. 

OMELETTE.— No.  2. 

Five  eggs;  one  teaspoon  of  flour;  half  cup  of  milk;  a  little 
salt;  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  Miss  M.  F.  Roome. 

OMELETTE.— No.  3. 

Six  eggs;  one  cup  of  milk;  one  tablespoon  of  flour;  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix  the  flour, 
milk  and  salt.  Add  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites.  Have  a 
buttered  spider  very  hot.  Pour  in  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
five  minutes.     A  perfect  omelette.  Mrs.  Nichols. 

Ham,  mushroom,  lobster,  chicken  and  all  kinds  of  omelettes 
are  made  by  chopping  up  the  meat  and  laying  it  between  the 
folds  before  dishing. 


COOK  BOOK.  35 


IH^AB^g,  ®lP®Wl^^)f  M,i®* 


Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread  !  " 


There  is  no  article  of  food  of  so  great  importance  to  the 
health,  comfort  and  happiness  of  the  family  as  bread.  Make 
it  perfect. 

GOOD  YEAST  FOR  BREAD.— No.  1. 

Six  potatoes,  boiled  in  a  gallon  of  water  with  a  handful  of 
hops  tied  in  a  bag.  Put  in  a  jar  half  a  cup  of  flour;  when 
the  potatoes  are  done,  pour  the  water  over  it  and  add  the 
potatoes  when  mashed.  When  luke-warm,  add  a  cup  of  yeast; 
when  cold,  half  cup  of  sugar,  quarter  cup  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger.  Mks.  H.  J.  Smith. 

YEAST.— No.  2. 

One  handful  of  hops;  two  quarts  of  water;  boil  together; 
strain  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  salt,  one  teacup  of  sugar 
and  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  well  grated.  Boil  all  together 
until  cooked  ;  let  cool  sufficiently  to  mix  in  one  teacup  of 
yeast;  then  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  M.  J.  D. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Boil  twelve  potatoes  ;  to  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled  add  enough  to  make  two  quarts.  When  lukewarm, 
add  two  yeast  cakes  or  two  cups  of  yeast,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 
the  salt  and  two  of  sugar.  Stir  well  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.     When  light,  bottle  and  cork,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Miss  A.  E.  Geaham. 


36  DUTCH  (reformed) 


HOP  YEAST. 

Take  two  handfuls  hops  and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  hot 
water.  Let  it  steep  half  an  hour.  Have  ready  in  a  stone  jar, 
two  spoonfuls  wheat  flour,  two  of  brown  sugar  and  one  of 
salt.  On  this  pour  the  hot  tea,  stirring  briskly  to  keep  from 
getting  lumpy.  Then  stand  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  pre- 
viously adding  half  a  teacup  of  yeast.  Stir  often,  and  when 
light  put  it  in  a  stone  jug  and  keep  in  the  cellar. 

Miss  C.  V. 

» 

PURE  BAKING  POWDER. 

Half  pound  of  cream  tartar  ;  quarter  pound  of  soda  ;  over 
quarter  pound  of  corn  starch.  Mix  and  sift  thoroughly.  Put 
in  tin  boxes  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Miss  H.  A.  Morehouse. 

BREAD. 

Boil  eight  potatoes  in  one  quart  of  water.  One  large  spoon 
of  flour  rubbed  fine  through  the  potatoes.  When  cool,  add 
half  a  yeast  cake  and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Let  this  stand 
until  it  is  light.  Then  rub  a  small  piece  of  lard  through  the 
flour  and  mix. 

BREAD. 

One  quart  milk  ;  one  quart  water.  Put  in  a  pan  as  much 
flour  as  would  be  required  for  these  ;  rub  in  the  flour  a  large 
tablespoon  of  lard,  a  handful  of  salt  and  a  handful  of  sugar. 
Then  add  the  milk  and  water  and  two  yeast  cakes  (dissolved). 
Stir  with  a  spoon  until  stiff  enough  to  knead  with  the  hand  ; 
knead  thoroughly  until  smooth  ;  then  let  stand  over  night. 
If  risen  enough  in  the  morning,  knead  and  let  rise  again. 
When  risen  knead  again  and  set  down  to  rise  a  second  time. 
Tlien  put  in  pans  and  let  rise  again.  Finally  put  in  the  oven 
and  bake.  If,  when  the  bread  is  baked,  the  crust  is  hard, 
spread  butter  over  the  top  and  cover  over.  A  good  hot  oven 
is  required.  Belle  and  Flora  Van  Cleef. 


COOK  BOOK.  37 


RYE  BREAD. 
Make  a  sponge  of  soft  yeast  and  wheat  flour — the  same  as 
for  wheat  bread.  When  light,  liaving  boiled  some  potatoes, 
mash  and  strain  through  a  colander.  Add  milk  sufficient  to 
make  as  many  loaves  as  you  wish,  and  a  little  salt.  Mould 
and  put  in  pans  to  rise.  When  very  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  forty-five  minutes,  Mks.  G.  R. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

One  yeast  cake  ;  six  potatoes,  medium  size,  boiled  in  one 
quart  of  water.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  take  three  cups  of 
the  water  in  which  they  Avere  boiled  ;  five  cups  of  Graham 
flour  stirred  in  the  water.  Mix  yeast  cake,  water  and  flour 
and  let  it  stand  until  light ;  then  knead  stiff  with  wheat  flour 
adding  a  little  salt.  This  quantity  will  make  two  loaves. 
Bake  one  hour  with  a  gentle  heat.        Mrs.  Jacob  DeBow. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal ;  one  cup  of  I'ye  flour  ;  a  half  cup 
of  molasses ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salcratus  and  a  little  salt. 
Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Smith. 

UNION  BREAD. 

Half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  four  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  soda,  four  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Mks.  J.  T.  V.  N. 
BISCUIT. 
One  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  ;  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  well  together.  Add  suflicient  milk  to  form  a  very  soft 
dough.  Knead  as  little  as  possible  and  bake  immediately  in 
a  quick  oven.  Miss.  C.  Van  Ness. 

RAISED  BISCUIT.— No.  1. 
One  quart  of  sifted  flour;  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
black   walnut.     Stir   into   the  flour   the   same  as  in  making 
pastry.     When  well  stirred,  add  one  cup  of  milk  and   one  of 


38  DUTCH  (reformed) 


sweet  cream.  Add  a  little  salt,  and,  if  desired,  a  half  cup  of 
sugar.  Mix  in  the  evening  as  for  bread  and  let  rise.  In  the 
morning  shape  them  with  the  hands  and  let  rise.     Then  hake. 

Mrs.  p.  H.  Mandeville. 

RAISED  BISCUIT.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  milk  boiled  at  night ;  let  it  stand  and  cool ; 
then  stir  the  sponge  and  add  the  yeast.  In  the  morning  add 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  half 
teaspoon  of  soda.  Knead  and  let  stand  to  rise.  Mould  and 
put  in  the  tins.  Set  down  again  for  the  second  rising.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Slingerland. 

TEA  BISCUITS.— No.  1. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  a  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoonf uls 
of  baking  powder,  one  small  handful  of  sugar.  Mix  lightly 
through  the  flour,  rub  a  large  teaspoonf  ul  of  lard  through  the 
dry  mixture,  mix  with  sweet  milk  or  water,  the  colder  the 
better.  Roll  out  soft  to  thickness  of  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  ;  cut  in  squares.     Bake  in  a  really  liot  oven. 

Belle  and  Flora  Van  Cleef. 

TEA  BISCUITS.— No.  2. 
Four  cups  flour  :  four  teaspoonfuls  Royal  baking  powder  ; 
half  cup  lard  ;  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and  one  of  salt.  Sift  the 
salt,  sugar  and  powder  together.  Rub  the  lard  through  the 
flour  until  smooth.  Add  milk  enough  to  form  a  smooth  con- 
sistent dough.  Roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch. 
Cut  with  a  small  round  cutter.     Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Miss  Annie  E.  Cooper. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS. 
Take  one  quart  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  two  of  baker's  yeast,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
white  flour  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  batter  cakes.  Add 
as  much  Graham  flour  as  you  can  stir  in  with  a  spoon.  Set 
away  till  morning.     Then  take  a  lump  of  dough  the  size  of 


COOK  BOOK.  39 


an  egg  ;  roll  lightly  between  the  palms  of  your  hands.  Put 
in  a  pan  and  let  rise  until  very  light,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  R.  R. 

DUTCH  DRIED  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
four  eggs,  flour  to  knead  soft  enough  to  roll  out.  Mix  well 
together.  Allow  to  rise  and  become  very  light.  Then  make 
into  biscuits  and  let  them  rise  the  second  time,  placing  one 
on  the  other,  two  deep,  with  a  little  butter  spread  between. 
When  baked,  separate  them.  Place  them  in  pans,  set  them 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  let  them  dry  hard. 

Mrs.  Nathan  DeMott. 

OLD-FASHIONED  DRIED  BISCUIT. 
One  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
four  eggs,  one  bowd  of  sponge.  Knead  soft  enough  to  roll  out, 
and  let  them  stand  to  rise.  Have  ready  a  well  buttered  pan, 
placing  a  layer  of  the  biscuit  in,  rub  over  them  a  little  but- 
ter, then  another  layer,  and  bake  immediately.  When  done, 
separate  the  layers  and  put  them  in  a  partly  cooled  oven  to  dry. 
After  thorough  drying  they  may  be  eaten  for  dinner  Avith 
milk,  or  simply  dipped  in  cold  water  and  spread  with  butter, 
for  supper.  Mrs.  C.  Doremus. 

ROLLS. 

One  pint  milk,  one  cup  jeast.  Set  over  night.  In  the 
morning  take  one  egg  and  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  mix  in  a 
stiff  dough.  Set  to  rise.  Let  it  get  very  light,  then  mould 
and  set  to  rise  again.     When  light  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Evans. 

BREAKFAST  ROLLS. 

One  pint  sweet  milk  ;  half  cup  of  sugar  ;  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  ;  one  teaspoon  of  salt ;  two  eggs  ;  one  compressed 
yeast  cake.  Miss  J.  M.  Van  Saun. 


40  DUTCH  (rEFOEMBd) 


DELICIOUS  ROLLS. 
One  half  teacup  of  butter ;  one  pound  of  flour  ;  one  half 
teacup  of  yeast ;  a  little  salt  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  good 
dough.     Let  it  set  in  a  warm  place  two  hours.    Bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  Miss  K.  T>.  K. 

BUTTER  ROLLS. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  ;  a  little 
sugar.  Scald  the  milk  with  the  lard.  Three  pints  of  flour  ; 
half  cup  of  yeast.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  ready 
knead  and  let  it  rise  again.  Then  put  it  on  the  board  and 
shape  into  rolls.  Mks.  H.  J.  S. 

RUSK.— No.  1. 

Nine  ounces  of  butter  ;  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar; 
five  eggs  ;  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  ;  half  teaspoon  of  soda ; 
one  cup  of  yeast.  Mix  it  all  together  and  let  it  rise  over  night. 
Stir  with  a  spoon  as  stiff  as  you  can.  In  the  morning  add 
more  flour  and  knead.  Mbs.  W.  Baxter. 

RUSK— No.  3. 

One  pint  of  milk  ;  one  teacup  of  yeast.  Mix  it  thin.  When 
light,  add  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  ten  oimces  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  flour  sufiicient  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  bread.  When  risen 
the  second  time,  cut  as  biscuit,  then  bake. 

Mks.  R.  Alyea. 

SWEET  RUSKS. 
Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk  ;  two  eggs  ;  one  bowl  of  sponge. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Rverson. 

BREAKFAST  RUSKS. 
Four  cups  of  flour  ;  half  cup  of  white  sugar  ;  one  cup  of 
milk  ;  two  eggs  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the 
eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk,  sift  the  baking  powder 
into  the  flour  and  stir  all  togetlier.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  R.  R. 


COOK  BOOK.  41 


CORN  BREAD.— No.l. 
Two  mixing  spoons  of  flour;  three  of  Indian  meal;  one  egg; 
three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  salt  and  molasses  to  taste. 

Mrs.  S.  DeMott. 
CORN  BREAD.— No.  2. 
Two  teacups  each  of  flour,  meal  and  sour  milk  ;  one  egg  ; 
one  tablespoon  each  of  melted  lard,  molasses  and  salt  ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Mandbville. 

CORN  BREAD.— No.  3. 
Three  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  the 
same  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  four  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der, a  little  sugar.  Mrs.  B.  H.  Brown. 

CORN  BREAD— No.  4. 
Two  cups  corn  meal ;  one  cup  wheat  flour  ;   one  pint  sour 
milk  ;  two  teaspoons  saleratus,  mixed  in  half  the  wheat  flour  ; 
one  teaspoon  salt ;  one  gill  molasses  ;  a  small  lump  of  butter. 
Bake  from  thirty -five  to  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  N.  Doeemus. 
CORN  BREAD.— No.  5. 
Two  cups  wheat  flour,  two  cups  corn  meal,  two  cups  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  one  large  tablespoon  butter, 
two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  powder,  a  little  salt. 

Mary  S.  Ryerson. 
MISSISSIPPI  CORN  BREAD. 
One  pint  Indian  meal ;  one  pint  buttermilk  ;  two  eggs  ;  one 
teaspoon  soda  ;  two  tablespoons  butter  and  a  little  salt. 

A.  E.  Graham. 
JOHNNY  CAKE.— Very  Nice. 
Three  cups  of  sour  milk ;  three  cups  of  corn  meal  ;  three 
tablespoons  of  molasses  ;  one  egg  ;  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus  ; 
a  little  flour  ;  salt.  Mrs.  H.  J.  S. 

JOHNNY  CAKE.— No.  2. 
One  quart  each  of  wheat  flour,  Indian  meal  and  buttermilk  ; 
one  cup  of  molasses  ;  one  dessert  spoon  of  baking  soda,  and  a 
little  salt.  Mrs.  L.  L.  R. 


42  DUTCH  (reformed) 


WMMwmmm^  mmmwEmm^  mtm^^ 


WAFFLES.— No.  1. 
One  quart   of  milk,  quai'ter  pound  of  butter,  three  eggs, 
three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  N.  DeMott. 

WAFFLES.— No.  2. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  half  pound  of  short- 
ening (butter  and  lard)  ;  one  pint  of  yeast.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  let  rise.  If  mixed  in  the  morning,  will  be  light 
for  tea.  Grease  a  waffle  iron,  put  the  batter  in  and  bake  on 
top  of  the  stove. 

WAFFLES.— No.  3. 
One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  half  pound  of  butter,  half  a 
compressed  yeast  cake.     Mix  as  stiff  as  pancakes. 

J.  M.  V.  S. 

SOFT  WAFFLES. 
Three  eggs;  two  quarts  sweet  milk  ;  half  pound  butter  ;  two 
tablespoons  soda,  a  little  salt.     Mix  in  a  thin  batter  and  bake 
in   a  waffle-iron.     Then  heat  together  half  a  pound  of  butter 
and  one  quart  of  milk.     Pour  over  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Ryerson. 

MUFFINS— No.  1. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk  ;  one  quarter  pound  of  butter  ;  four 
eggs ;  flour   enough  to    make  a  stiff  batter  ;  one  teacup  of 
yeast.  M.  J.  D. 

MUFFINS.— No.  2. 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour  and 
three  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  J.  R.  E. 


COOK  BOOK.  43 


CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS.— No.  1. 
Two  cups  of  corn  flour  ;  two  of  wheat  flour  ;  four  eggs. 
Set  to  rise  over  night  if  intended  for  breakfast  ;  if  for  sup- 
per, set  sponge  at  one  o'clock.  Salt ;  two  tablespoons  of  N. 
O.  molasses  ;  one  yeast  cake,  sweet  milk,  lastly  the  eggs.  Bake 
in  well  greased  rings  on  a  griddle.     Brown  on  both  sides. 

Mrs.  Jacob  DbBow. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS.— No.  2. 

Mix  together  in  a  sieve  and  rub  through  it  a  teacupf  ul  of  corn 
meal,  twice  as  much  flour,  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  cup.  Set  the  cup  in 
a  basin  of  hot  water  and  while  the  butter  is  melting,  beat  three 
eggs  very  light  and  add  a  large  cupful  of  milk.  This  mixture 
is  poured  upon  the  dry  ingredients,  beating  well  all  the  while, 
the  melted  butter  is  added  and  the  mixture  poured  into  mufiin 
pans.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Ball. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS.— No.  3. 
Two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  two  and  a 
half  cups  of  loppered  milk,  half  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  lard, 
three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Bake  immediately  in  mufiin  rings.     To  be  eaten  hot. 

Miss  C.  V. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS.— No.  I. 

One  quart  of  Graham  flour  ;  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  ; 
two  eggs  ;  half  tablespoon  of  butter ;  one  tablespoon  of 
baking  powder  ;  a  little  salt.  Moisten  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  a  little  milk.  Bake  in  patty-pans,  at  once,  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  G.  D. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. -No.  2. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  two  eggs  ;  one  tablespoon  of 
lard  ;  one  large  mixing-spoon  of  sugar  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ; 
two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  ;  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter. 

Mrs.  S.  DeMoit. 


44  DUTCH  (reformed) 


RICE  MUFFINS. 

One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  ;  one  ))int  of  flour ;  two  eggs; 
one  quart  of  milk  ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter  ;  a  little  salt. 
Beat  hard.     Bake  quick.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Ryersgn. 

GRAHAM  GEMS.— No.  1. 
One  cup  of  warm  water  ;    one  egg ;    two  tablespoons   of 
molasses  ;  one  half  teaspoon  of  soda  ;  salt ;  half  a  compressed 
yeast-cake  ;  flour  for  rather  thick  batter. 

Miss  J.  M.  Van  Saun. 

GRAHAM  GEMS.-  No.  2. 
Take  one  quart  of  Graham  flour — of  fine  flour  of  the  en- 
tire wheat.  Stir  in  it  cold  water,  or  milk  and  water,  half 
and  half,  till  you  have  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon 
and  not  run.  Stir  very  thoroughly.  The  gems  are  best 
baked  in  cast-iron  gem-pans.  Heat  the  pans  in  the  oven, 
grease  slightly  and  drop  the  batter  in  the  hot  pans.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Miss  H.  A.  Morehouse. 

DROP  SHORT-CAKE. 

One  pint  of  thick  milk  ;  three  eggs  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ; 

a  small  piece  of  butter,  the    size   of  an   egg  ;  a  little  salt  ; 

flour  enough  to  make  good  batter. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Ryerson. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 
One  cup  of  powdered  sugar  ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter 
rubbed  into  the  sugar ;  three  eggs ;  one  heaping  cup  of 
prepared  flour  ;  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream.  Bake  in 
jelly-cake  tins  ;  when  quite  cold  lay  between  the  cakes  nearly 
a  quart  of  berries.  Sprinkle  each  layer  lightly  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  strew  the  same  thickly  over  the  upper  cake. 
Eat  while  fresh.  Miss  Mary  Simkins. 

SOFT  SHORT-CAKE. 
Three   eggs  ;    one  pint  of   sour  cream  ;    one   teaspoon  of 
baking-soda  ;  salt  ;  stir  very  stiff  ;  bake  on  griddle. 

Mrs.  T.  R, 


COOK  BOOK.  46 


STRAWBERRY  OR  PEACH  SHORT-CAKE. 
Three  eggs  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  two  cups  of  sifted  flour ; 
six  tablespoonfuls   of  cream ;  one   teaspoonf ul   of  soda  and 
two  of  cream-tartar  or  three  (heaping)  of  baking-powder. 

Bake  in  two  jelly-tins,  and  when  you  are  ready  to  put  them 
on  the  table  split  them  and  spread  each  half  with  strawberries 
or  peaches,  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  a  little  cream.  Then 
put  the  top  on  and  cover  -with  the  same. 

Miss  A.  Jones. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  thick  milk;  half  cup  of  lard;  one  teaspoonf  ul  of 
saleratus,  and  a  little  salt  sifted  through  the  flour.  Knead 
soft ;  roll  and  bake  in  jelly-tins.  Put  a  layer  of  strawberries 
between  and  sprinkle  with  white  sugar.  Serve  hot  with 
sweet  cream.  Miss  E.  Doremus. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

First,  prepare  the  berries  in  an  earthen  bowl,  then  bruise 
them  with  a  potato  masher  ;  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of 
white  sugar  and  set  aside  until  the  cake  is  made. 

Take  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  ;  half  cup  of  butter ;  one 
egg,  well  beaten  ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and 
milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  well  and  roll 
out  till  about  one  inch  thick.  Bake  till  a  nice  brown. 
When  done  turn  it  out  of  the  pan,  run  a  sharp  knife  through 
it  and  allow  it  to  lie  open  a  few  minutes  to  let  the  steam  es- 
cape. Then  put  the  under  crust  upon  a  plate ;  cover  thickly 
with  the  berries,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  lay  on  the  top 
crust  and  pour  the  juice  of  the  berries  around  the  cake,  and 
you  will  have  a  delicious  short-cake.  Miss  A.  F.  D. 

CORN  GRIDDLE-CAKES.— Very  Fine. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn  (grated),  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  one 
cup  of  milk,  a  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  flour. 

Mks.  H.  J.  S. 


46  DUTCH  (reformed) 


NICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Two  quarts  of  flour,  a  handful  of  Indian  meal,  two  eggs, 
a  teaspoouful  each  of  salt  and  soda,  one  quart  of  milk. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  E. 

GERMAN  EGG  CAKES. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one-third  quart  of  water,  two 
large  potatoes  (grated  fine),  six  eggs  (beaten  very  light). 
Thicken  with  flour  about  like  griddle  cakes  or  thin  batter. 
Bake  in  a  spider  and  turn  over.  Butter  and  sprinkle  with 
white  sugar  as  fast  as  you  bake.  Serve  hot.  They  are  deli- 
cious for  tea  or  lunch.  Miss  Emeline  Doremus. 

WHIGS. 
One  pint  of  milk,  warmed  slightly ;  one-quarter  pound  of 
butter  dissolved  in  the  milk ;  two  pounds  of  flour  ;  four  or  six 
eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  one-half  pound  of  sugar  ;  one  teacup 
of  yeast ;  a  little  salt.  Stir  milk,  butter  and  flour  together  ; 
sugar  and  eggs  last.  When  light,  put  in  pans  and  set  down 
to  rise.  Put  in  oblong  tins,  half  filled  with  tlie  batter.  Bake 
fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  Jacob  DeBow. 

TEA  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  two  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  little 
salt.  Miss  M.  F.  Rooms. 

PUFFET.— No.  1. 

One  cup  each  of  light  sponge,  sugar  and  sweet  milk,  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  a  little  allspice.  Mix  and  raise 
and  bake  the  same  as  you  do  bread. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Martin. 

PUFFET.— No.  3. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  half 
pound  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  yeast. 

M.  J.  D. 


COOK  BOOK.  47 


PUFFET.— No.  3. 

Two  cui)S  of  milk,  two  of  spouge,  one  of  butter,  lialf  a 
flip  of  sugar,  two  egg.^.  M.  F.  V.  H. 

PUFFET.— No.  4. 

A  bowl  of  light  sponge,  mix  with  four  eggs,  one  half  pound 
of  butter,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  coffee  cup  of  currants  and 
two  cups  of  sugar.  Mix  quite  stiff  with  a  spoon,  and  when 
light  it  is  ready  to  bake.  Mrs.  A.  V.  N. 

AUNT  JANE'S  PUFFET. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  half  pound  of  butter, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  sponge  in  half 
of  the  milk.  Mrs.  N.  DeMott. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Pour  into  a  stone  pot  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  quarter 
pound  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of  yeast,  three  eggs  and  salt. 
Mix  in  three  pints  of  wheat  flour.  Let  stand  until  light,  then 
put  in  long  tins  and  let  rise  again  ;  after  rising  the  second 
time  it  is  ready  to  bake.  Mrs.  J.  DeBow. 


48  DUTCH  (kEFORMEd) 


P'lSP® 


PIE  CRUST. 

Proportions  .  One  cup  of  lard  or  butter  to  three  of  flour. 
Water  to  mix.  Use  a  fork  in  mixing.  Add  a  little  extra 
flour  to  roll.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Slingerlakd. 

GOOD  COMMON  PIE  CRUST. 

Allow  one  heaping  handful  of  flour  for  a  pie,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  or  butter.  ( .) 

PUFF  PASTE. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  lard,  one  and  a 
quarter  pounds  of  flour.  Wet  half  the  flour  to  a  paste  ;  mix 
the  other  half  with  the  shortening,  chopping  it  fine  ;  do  not 
use  your  hand  ;  stir  together  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon. 
Roll  out  the  paste  on  the  board  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  add  one-third  of  the  mixed  flour  and  shortening  ; 
fold  the  four  corners  over  it  and  beat  out  with  a  rolling-pin 
till  again  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  over  it  one-third 
more  of  the  shortening,  fold  over  tlie  corners,  beat  out  again, 
add  the  remainder  of  the  shortning,  beat,  roll  out  and  use. 

W. 
LEMON  PIE.— No.  1. 

Two  soda  crackers,  two  lemons,  two  eggs,  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  boiling  water.  Roll 
the  crackers  fine,  pour  on  the  boiling  water,  cover  with  a 
plate  when  cold,  add  the  eggs,  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
the  lemons.  Place  between  thin  crusts  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Bruen. 


COOK  BOOK.  49 


LEMON  PIE.— No.  2. 
Two  Clips  of  sugar;  three  of  water;  three  eggs;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch;  two  lemons. 

Miss  Silah  Van  Ness. 

LEMON   PIE.— No.  3. 

Two  lemons;  yolks  of  two  eggs;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one 
coflfee  cup  of  cold  water;  one  large  slice  of  bread;  two  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter.  When  baked,  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar;  spread  over 
the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Miss  J.  B. 

LEMON  PIE.— No.  4. 
One  large  lemon  ;   two  cups  of  hot  water  ;  two  cups  of 
sugar  ;  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  corn  starch.     Boil,  and 
let  stand  till  cold ;  then  grate  the  lemon  in  and  bake. 

Mbs.  Hester  Van  Ness. 

LEMON  PIE.— Excellent. 

Two  cups  of  sugar;  three  eggs;  three  lemons;  two  table" 
spoons  of  corn  starch  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water;  three 
cups  of  boiling  water  stirred  in  the  corn  starch.  Put  the  corn 
starch  in  a  vessel  on  the  stove,  stirring  it  until  it  begins  to 
thicken;  allow  this  to  cool,  and  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Bake  without  upper  crust.  When  done  have  ready  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  beaten  with  four  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar  to  a  stiff  froth.    Flavor  the  meringue  with  vanilla. 

Miss  C.  Van  Ness. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE. 
Grate  one  and  a  half  lemons,  mixing  the  juice  with  the 
grated  rind,  and  one  cup  of  water;  one  cup  of  sugiir;  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  one  slice 
of  bread  broken  fine  without  the  crust.  Bake  with  only  an 
undercrust.  When  done,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
four  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and 
spread  over  the  top.  Then  return  to  the  oven  and  brown 
4ghtly.     This  makes  one  pie.         Mrs.  P.  H.  Mandevillk. 


60  DUTCH  (reformed) 


FROSTED  LEMON  PIE. 

The  juice  of  three  lemons,  grated  rind  of  one ;  eight  table- 
spoons of  sugar;  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  one  cup 
of  sweet  cream;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  the  whites  of  one. 
The  whites  of  two  eggs  and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  for 
frosting.  Mrs.  T.  Rtbrson. 

COCOANUT  PIE.— No.  1. 

One  cocoanut,  grated;  three  pints  of  milk;  five  eggs;  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sugar.  Line  three  medium-sized  dishes 
with  good  crust,  and  fill.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven, 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Van  Ness. 

COCOANUT  PIE.— No.  2.  - 
One  grated  cocoanut;  one  quart  of  milk,  using  the  milk  of 
the  cocoanut ;  simmer  the  cocoanut  and  milk  fifteen  minutes 
over  a  moderate  fire;  then  take  it  off  and  mix  with  four 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  of  melted  butter,  one  small  cracker 
pounded  fine,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Add,  when  cool,  five  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth  and  a  wineglass  of  wine.  Turn  into  deep 
plates  that  are  lined  with  nice  pastry,  and  bake  immediately 
in  a  quick  oven.  Miss  A.  Jones. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

One  orange;  one  cup  of  sugar;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg; 
two  eggs;  one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk.  Ornament  with  strips 
of  pastry.  Mrs.  Jacob  DeBow. 

CURRANT  PIE.— Excellent. 

One  teacup  of  mashed  currants;  one  of  sugar;  one  of  cream, 
and  one  tablespoonf ul  of  flour  for  one  pie.  Under  crust  and 
strips  of  pastry  for  the  top.  Mrs.  Atno  Van  Ness. 

CREAM  PIE, 

One  pint  of  sweet  cream;  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten; 
sweeten  to  taste  with  pulverized  sugar. 

Mrs.  Munson  Van  Ness. 


COOK  BOOK.  51 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Take  one  quart  of  pumpkin,  stewed  and  pressed  through  a 
sieve;  two  quarts  of  milk;  two  cups  of  sugar;  seven  eggs, 
beaten  very  light;  a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon to  suit  the  taste.  Stir  well  together  and  bake  with  plain 
crust.  Mks.  Geo.  Demarbst. 

PREPARED  MINCE  FOR  PIES. 

Eight  pounds  meat;  three  pounds  suet;  three  pounds  seeded 
raisins;  three  pounds  currants;  one  pound  citron;  one  pint 
brandy;  one  pint  molasses;  three  and  one-half  pounds  sugar; 
four  teaspoons  of  allspice;  four  teaspoons  of  cinnamon;  two 
teaspoons  of  cloves;  one  and  one-lialf  teaspoons  of  mace;  one 
nutmeg.  Boil  the  meat  until  done,  and  the  suet  half  an  hour. 
When  cold  chop  fine  separately.  Mix  all  together.  Take  one 
bowl  of  the  mixture,  two  of  the  apples,  and  cider  when  you 
make  your  pies.  Mks.  T.  Wolfe. 

MOCK-MINCE  PIE. 

Four  soda  crackers,  rolled  fine;  two  cups  of  cold  water; 
one  cup  of  molasses;  one  cup  of  brown  sugar;  one  cup  of 
sour  cider  or  vinegar;  one  half  cup  of  melted  butter;  one  cup 
of  chopped  raisins;  two  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  of  all  kinds 
of  spices;  nutmeg,  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 

Mrs,  J.  M.  Berry. 

APPLE  MERINGUE  PIE. 

Stew  apples  soft;  sweeten  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  in 
an  undercrust.  Use  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  each  pie,  and 
brown  lightly.     Peaches  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Mrs.  M.  Van  Ness. 

SWEET  APPLE   PIE. 

Two  quarts  of  mellow  sweet  apples;  one  and  a  half  quarts 
of  sweet  milk;  two  tablespoons  of  flour;  two  eggs,  well  beaten; 
a  little  salt.  Pare  the  apples,  boil  and  mash  very  fine.  Mix 
with  the  milk  and  eggs.      Having  rubbed  the  flour  smooth 


52  DUTCH  (reformed) 


with  a  little  of  the  milk,  add  all  together  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  with  one  crust,  the  same 
as  custard  pie.     Meal  Dutch  pie  and  very  good. 

Mrs.  D.  N.  Jacobus. 

PRUNE  PIE. 

French  prunes  make  delicious  j^ies.  Soak  them  in  a  very 
little  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  pinch  the  stones 
out  of  them,  and  stew  slowly.  When  tender,  take  them  out 
of  the  water  with  a  long-handled  strainer.  Then  strain  the 
Avatei-  through  a  piece  of  flannel ;  add  sugar  and  make  a 
syrup  to  pour  over  the  prunes.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 


COOK  BOOK.  63 


wii^iif^^s  Air®  PAW®^p® 


AUNT  ELLIE'S  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  teacup  of  suet;  one  teacup  of  raisins;  one  teacup  of 
currants;  one  teacup  of  molasses;  three  teacups  of  flour. 
Boil  three  hours.  Mrs.  C  W.  Mandevillb. 

YANKEE  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  Boston  crackers,  rolled  fine;  two  quarts  of 
milk;  six  eggs;  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg;  one  pound  of 
raisins,  stoned;  a  little  salt;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Ryeeson. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Six  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced;  one  coffee-cup  of  sugar 
poured  over  them;  one  pint  of  milk;  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Let  the  eggs,  milk  and 
corn-starch  thicken  on  the  fire,  and  pour  over  the  oranges. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Pour  on  the  top,  and  let  brown  in  the 
oven.  Sweeten  the  eggs,  milk  and  corn-starch  to  taste  before 
pouring  over  the  oranges. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk;  two  cups  bread  crumbs;  one  half  cup  but- 
ter; one  cup  white  sugar;  four  eggs;  one  large  lemon,  the 
juice  and  half  the  rind,  grated.  Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk; 
add  the  beaten  yolks,  with  the  butter  and  sugar  (rubbed  to  a 
cream),  and  the  lemon.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  firm 
and  slightly  brown.  Draw  to  the  door  of  the  oven,  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  with 


54  DUTCH  (reformed) 


three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice 
Brown  slightly,  and  eat  cold. 

Oranges  may  be  used  the  same  way. 

Miss  A.  E.  G. 

FULLER  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  water;  one  cup  of  molasses;  half  a  cup  of 
butter;  half  a  pound  of  currants  or  raisins;  one  teaspoon  of 
soda;  a  little  salt;  flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  Boil  two  and 
a  half  or  three  hours.  Mrs.  W.  B. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs;  two  cups  of  chopped  apples; 
one  half  cup  of  sugar;  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon;  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  on  top.  Place 
the  apples  first;  then  sprinkle  a  few  crumbs,  then  apples,  then 
crumbs.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Smith. 

DUTCH  PUFFS. 

Three  eggs;  three  cups  of  flour;  three  cups  of  milk;  a 
little  salt.  Bake  in  cups,  two  thirds  full,  twenty  minutes. 
To  be  eaten  hot,  with  sauce  made  of  butter  and  sugar  beaten 
to  a  cream.     Flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  C.  V. 

LOWELL  PUDDING. 

One  coffee-cup  of  milk;  one  cup  of  raisins;  half  a  cup  of 
molasses;  half  a  teacup  of  brown  sugar;  one  teacup  of 
suet;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  three  hours.  Serve 
with  sauce.  Mrs.  Geo.  Dbmarest. 

FRUIT  BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  grated;  yolks  of  two  eggs;  one 
tablespoon  of  sugar  ;  one  quart  of  milk;  half  a  cup  of  seeded 
raisins;  half  a  cup  of  currants.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  V.  N. 


COOK  BOOK.  55 


FLOUR  PUDDIxHG. 
Four  eggs;  four  cups  of  sweet  milk;  two  cups  of  flour  ; 
one  tablespoon  of  butter.     Bake  half  an  hour  in  hot  oven. 
To  be  eaten  hot  with  sauce.  M.  J.  D. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 
Three   pints  of   sweet  milk,  boiled;  seven  tablespoons  of 
Indian  meal;  four  eggs;  nutmeg;  salt;  sweetened  to  taste. 
Stir  the  meal  into  the  milk  when  it  begins  to  boil. 

Miss  Silah  Van  Ness. 

QUICK  PUFF  PUDDING. 
Into  one  pint  of  flour  stir  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der and  a  little  salt;  then  sift  and  stir  the  mixture  into  mi'k 
until  very  soft.  Put  about  half  of  the  batter  into  a  pan, 
then  a  layer  of  berries,  or  canned  fruit,  then  the  remainder 
of  the  batter.  Bake  half  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  sweet 
sauce.  Mks.  G.  A.  Ryerson. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING.— No.  1. 
Half  a  cup  of  sugar ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter ;  one  egg; 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk;  one  pint  of  flour;  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder ;  a  little  salt.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Mandbvillb. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING.— No.  2. 
One  quart  of  flour ;  two  eggs;  two  tablespoons  of  butter; 
two  cups  of  sweet  milk;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  two  teaspoons  of 
Sea  Foam;  sweet  sauce  to  your  taste.  A.  V.  N. 

SUET  PUDDING. 
One  cup  of  raisins,  chopped;  one  of  suet;  one  of  milk;  one 
of  molasses;  two  (heaping)  of  flour;  one  teaspoon  of  soda; 
spice  to  taste.     Make  it  as  stiff  as  cake.     Boil  three  hours. 

J.  M.  Van  Saun. 

DANDY  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  boiled  in  water ;  two  spoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, mixed  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of 


56  DUTCH  (reformed) 


sugar.  Pour  into  the  milk  and  stir  very  quickly,  and  take  off 
at  once.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well;  add  half  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pudding  when  cool.  Flavor, 
put  in  the  oven  and  brown.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Miss  A.  Jones. 

APPLE  BATTER  PUDDING. 
One  pint  sweet  milk ;  two  cups  flour  ;  four  eggs  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt ;  quarter  teaspoonful  baking-powder.  Peel  and 
core  eight  sour  apples  ;  put  them  close  together  in  a  deep 
dish  ;  beat  the  batter  and  pour  over  them.  Bake  one  hour. 
Eat  with  sauce.  Miss  Stella  Cammeybr. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk  with  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs  ; 
while  hot,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut ; 
when  nearly  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  six  tablespoons 
of  Baker's  chocolate  (grated),  vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste;  bake  ; 
when  the  whites  are  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Pour  this  on  the  top  of  the  pudding  -when  it  is 
baked,  and  brown  slightly.  Mrs.  J.  G.  R. 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

Pare  your  pudding-dish  about  half  full  of  peaches  and 
sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  over  them.  Then  make  a 
batter  of  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, one  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  (in  the  flour).  Throw  this  batter  over  the  fruit. 
Bake  about  forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Mandeville. 

PUFFS. 

One  cup  flour;  one  cup  milk;  one  egg;  a  little  piece  of  but- 
ter; a  little  salt;  two  spoonfuls  baking-powder.  Bake  in  tins, 
half-filled.  Mrs.  Alice  Van  Saun. 

SHANGHI  PUDDING. 
One  quart  of  flour;  one  pint  of  milk;  two  eggs;  three  spoon- 


COOK  BOOK.  57 


fills  of  baking-poAvder  ;  one  dessertspoonful  of  butter  ;  one 
of  sugar  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  in  a  pudding  mould 
for  one  hour.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce.  ( .) 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

One  pint  of  fine  bread-crumbs  ;  one  quart  of  SAveet  milk  ; 
one  cup  of  sugar;  yolks  of  four  eggs;  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon;  small  piece  of  butter  ;  nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake 
until  done,  but  not  watery. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  in  which  has  been  stirred  the  juice  of  the 
lemon.  Pour  the  whites  over  the  pudding  and  replace  in  the 
oven  ;  let  it  brown  lightly.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

This  is  very  line  with  a  layer  of  jelly  or  fresh  fruit  put  over 
the  pudding  and  covered  with  the  meringue.  C.  V. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk ;  two  eggs  ;  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt ;  quar- 
ter of  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water  ;  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  cream  tartar,  sifted  through  a  cup  of  flour,  and  added 
to  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  one  pint  of  any  kind 
of  berries,  well  dredged  with  flour,  stirred  in  at  the  last.  Boil. 

Mes.  J.  R.  E. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  fifteen  minutes  in  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water  ;  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Then  cool,  till 
nearly  stiff,  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Smith. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Four  tablespooufuls  of  tapioca  ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  four 
eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  two  for  frosting;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  in  a  little  water;  then 
boil  tlie  milk  and  pour  over  it.  When  it  is  nearly  cold,  add 
the  sugar  and  eggs  (well  beaten) ;  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  one 
hour.    After  it  comes  from  the  oven  and  has  cooled  a  little. 


58  DUTCH  (rBFOEMED) 


pour  on  it  a  frosting  made  of  the  reserved  whites  and  half 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  well  beaten  together.  This  serves 
as  a  sauce  and  will  be  found  extremely  fine.        Mrs.  W.  R. 

CREAM  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 
Soak  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  tapioca  in  water  over  night. 
Put  the  tapioca  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  forty- 
five  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  into  a  cup  of 
sugar,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  cocoanut,  stir  it  in 
and  boil  ten  minutes  longer  ;  pour  into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  put  this  over  the  top.  Sprinkle  with 
cocoanut  and  brown  for  five  minutes.  Miss  A.  F.  D. 

BIRDS'  NEST  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  fourteen  tablespoons  of  flour,  six  eggs, 
six  or  eight  tender  sour  apples,  pared,  cored  and  halved  ;  a  lit- 
tle salt.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  milk,  taking  care  to  add  the 
milk  slowly,  to  avoid  unevenness,  then  add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  the  apples.  Stir  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
after  putting  in  a  brisk  oven,  to  avoid  the  flour  from  settling 
to  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Sauce  of  butter  and  sugar  rubbed  to  a  cream  ;  flavor 
with  sherry  wine.  Mrs.  M.  R.  R. 

DUTCH  RAISED  DUMPLINGS. 
To  one  bowl  of  light  sponge,  take  two  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
one  egg,  salt.     Mix,  and  when  light  drop  with  a  spoon  in  a 
pot  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Slingerland. 

POP-OVERS. 

Three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  seven  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Beat  the  eggs  till  very  light,  mix  the  flour  and  milk  together, 
adding  a  small  quantity  of  the  latter  at  a  time,  stir  in  the 
eggs,  pour  in  greased  cups,  place  in  a  dripping-pan  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  thirty  minutes.  Mrs.  M.  R.  R. 


COOK  BOOK.  59 


COTTAGE  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
One  quart  of  boiling  water;  four  teaspoons  of  corn  starch, 
mixed  in  cold  water;  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  twelve  table- 
spoons of  sugar  ;  flavor  with  lemon.  ( .) 

BROWN  BETTY  SAUCE. 
One  large  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  (scant)  of  butter,  one 
egg,  one  lemon  (all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel),  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  one  half  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  S. 
SNOW  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Use  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  left  from  the  pudding,  for  a 
boiled  custard,  and  pour  over  it.  ( .) 

PUFF  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  of  butter,  yolk  of  one  egg, 
stir  all  to  a  cream.     Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  froth  and 
stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  one  half  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Mrs.  A.  V.  S. 

LEMON  OR  ORANGE  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
One  large  cup  of  sugar,   a  scant  half  cup  of  butter,  one 
egg,  one  lemon  (all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel),  one 
teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  three  tablespoons  of  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  G.  D. 

SUET  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Two  small  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  large  egg,  two  eggs 
(beaten  separately).     Mix  yolks  with  butter  and  sugar  ;  have 
the  whites  in  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  last,  with  wliatever  fla- 
voring is  desired.  Mrs.  J.  H.  W. 

COLD  OR  HARD  SAUCE. 
Four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  of  hot  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the 
water  and  flavoring.  When  smooth  and  creamy  ])ut  in  a 
small  dish  and  grate  nutmeg  on  top.  Served  with  any  kind 
of  hot  pudding.  M. 


60  DUTCH  (reformed) 


SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Put  together  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  thick, 
sour  cream,  beat  the  mixture  five  or  six  minutes,  then  put  it 
into  a  sauce-tureen  and  grate  nutmeg  over  it.  This  sauce  is 
especially  appropriate  for  Indian  puddings  (baked  or  boiled), 
and  for  boiled  suet  puddings. 

APPLE  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
One  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  rubbed  to  a 
cream  ;  white  of  one   egg,  well   beaten ;  a   little  nutmeg  or 
orange-juice.    Wheu  ready  to  serve,  stir  in  two  great  spoons  of 
boiling  water. 


COOK  BOOK. 


PSl^^WB®^® 


FRITTERS.— No.  1. 

Two  eggs  ;  one  cup  of  milk  ;  one  teaspoon  of  sugar ;  one 
teaspoon  of  baking-powdei- ;  pinch  of  salt.  Make  in  a  stiff 
batter  and  drop  in  boiling  lard  with  a  spoon,  the  same  as 
dumplings.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  M.  a.  Beebe. 

FRITTERS.— No.  2. 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  cup  of  milk.     Mix  as  stiff  as 
pan-cakes ;  cook  as  crullers.     Eat  with  sauce  of  butter  and 
sugar,  well  beaten.  Miss  M.  F.  R. 

FRUIT  FRITTERS. 
Make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of 
flour,  a  little  salt.     Add  a  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  and 
stir  in  sliced  apples,  canned  peaches  or  any  fruit  you  choose. 
Banana  fritters  are  very  nice.  W. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— No.  1. 
Make  a  batter,  not  very  stiff,  with  one  quart  of  milk,  three 
eggs  and  flour.  Pare  and  core  a  dozen  large  apples  and  chop 
them  to  about  the  size  of  small  peas.  Mix  them  well  in  the 
batter  and  fiy  in  lard,  as  you  would  doughnuts.  To  be  eaten 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  N. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— No.   3. 

Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  milk,  flour   and  a  little  salt  ; 

beat  the  batter  smooth  and  light.     Peel  the  apples  and  cut  in 

thin  slices  ;  dip  them  in  the  batter  and  fry  them  in  fresh  lard  ; 

then  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  sift  sugar  over  them. 

R. 


62  DUTCH  (reformed) 


PEACH  FRITTERS. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  add  a  small  teacup  of  sifted  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  four  well-beaten  eggs,  reserving  the  whites 
of  two.  Beat  to  a  stiff  batter  ;  stir  in  half  a  can  of  peaches 
and  fry  in  large  spoonfuls,  in  very  hot  lard.  To  the  juice 
of  the  peaches  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff' 
froth,  and  sugar  to  taste.  This  will  serve  as  sauce  for  the 
fritters.  Mrs.  R.  R. 

STRAWBERRY  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  with  a  coffee-cupful  of  flour,  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  enough  milk  to  make 
it  as  stiff  as  pan-cake  batter.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat 
it  well.  Mix  in  one  and  a  half  pints  of  large  strawberries, 
and  drop  a  small  spoonful  of  it  into  hot  lard  and  brown  lightly. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  cover  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

W. 
TRIFLES. 

One  well-beaten  egg  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  little 
salt  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  in  thin,  round 
cakes  and  fry  in  lard.  When  they  rise  to  the  surface  and 
are  turned  over  they  are  done.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  put 
jam  or  jelly  on  the  center  of  each,  or  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar.  Mrs.  W.  R. 


COOK  BOOK.  63 


Directions  for  Making  Cake. — Place  everything  you  will 
need  on  the  table.  Butter  the  pans,  grate  the  nutmegs  and 
squeeze  the  lemons.  Break  the  eggs,  each  in  a  cup  by  itself. 
Weigh  or  measure  the  flour  and  sugar,  and  sift  them.  Make 
your  cake  in  an  earthen  dish,  not  in  tin.  In  warm  weather 
put  your  eggs  into  cold  water  some  time  before  you  are  ready 
to  break  them — they  cut  into  a  much  finer  froth  when  cold. 
The  whites  should  be  beaten  separately,  then  the  yolks  beaten 
and  strained,  and  then  put  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  After 
these  have  been  stirred  till  they  look  like  cream,  mix  in  the 
flour  gradually.  In  summer  do  not  stir  the  cake  with  the 
hand — the  warmth  of  it  makes  it  less  light.  In  winter  soften, 
but  do  not  melt  the  butter  before  using  it.  Attention  and 
practice  will  teach  when  the  cake  is  well  baked — when  it  is 
done  enough  it  settles  a  little  away  from  the  pan.  Even 
well-made  cake  becomes  heavy  by  being  taken  out  of  the 
oven  before  it  is  perfectly  baked.  Moving  it  carelessly  while 
it  is  baking  will  also  make  a  light  cake  fall. 

BUHLING.— No.  1. 

To  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  add  corn-meal  to  make  a 
thin  mush  ;  add  one  cup  of  molasses  and  one  of  lard,  a  little 
salt  and  spice  to  taste  ;  buckwheat-flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  in  low  pans  about  a  half  hour. 

Mes.  Thos.  Mandeville. 

BUHLING.— No.  3. 

Four  quarts  of  water;  one  cup  of  Indian  meal  ;  one  cup  of 
lard  ;  one  pint  of  molasses  ;  one  tablespoon  of  allspice.     Boil 


64  DUTCH  (reformed) 


the  meal  in  the  water  fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  the  other  in- 
gredients and  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  stiff,  and  boil 
one  hour.     When  it  is  cold,  cut  in  slices  and  fry. 

Mrs.  Samuel  DbMott. 

BUHLING.— No.  3. 

Boil  one  quart  of  water  ;  then  add  a  half  cup  of  Indian 
meal,  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
and  two  teaspoons  of  allspice.  Stir,  thickening  to  a  stiff  paste 
with  the  buckwheat  meal  and  set  away  in  a  greased  dish. 
Slice  and  fry,  or  eat  cold.  Mrs.  Jno.  J.  M. 

DELEVAN  LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Four  eggs  ;  two  cups  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  one  cup 
of  sour  milk  ;  two  cups  of  flour  ;  half  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Mrs.  Hester  Van  Ness. 

APPEL  KOEK.— No.  1. 

Half  peck  of  mellow  sweet  apples  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  half 
cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses  ;  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  a 
little  salt  and  spice  to  taste.  Pare  and  chop  the  apples  the 
same  as  for  mince  pies.  Use  very  little  flour,  and  thicken 
with  apples.  Bake  in  a  pie-dish  or  tins,  in  a  rather  quick  oven 
(not  too  hot)  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Cut  in  slices  and  eat 
cold  for  tea;  spread  with  butter.  Mrs.  D.  N.  Jacobus. 

APPEL  KOEK.— No.  3. 

Half  peck  of  sweet  Dereclausha  apples  ;  half  cup  of  N.  O. 
molasses  ;  half  cup  of  brown  sugar ;  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ; 
two  eggs,  not  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  a 
little  salt.  Peel  and  chop  the  apples,  which  must  be  mellow. 
Do  not  stir  too  stiff,  and  use  just  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  Bake  in  square  tins  or  pie-dishes,  well  buttered,  in  a 
moderate  oven,  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Eat  cold,  cut 
in  slices  and  buttered,  for  tea.  Miss  E.  Doremus. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  1. 

Three  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ;  five  eggs  ;  two 
cups  of  butter  ;  five  cups  of  flour  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ; 


COOK  BOOK.  65 


two  teaspoons  of  cream-tartar  ;  tliree  lbs.  of  raisins  ;  tlii-ee 
lbs.  of  currants  ;  two  lbs.  of  citron  ;  half  pint  of  brandy  ; 
two  tablespoons  of  cloves  ;  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon  ; 
two  nutmegs  ;  one  cup  of  sour  milk.  Beat  the  sugar  and 
butter  together,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  milk,  in 
which  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  have  been  dissolved.  Mix 
the  flour  with  the  fruit  and  then  add  the  brandy,  spices,  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake 
three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe  will  make  three 
large  loaves.  H.  C,  E. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  2. 

Eight  eggs  ;  two  lbs.  of  brown  sugar  ;  two  lbs.  of  flour  ; 
one  lb.  of  butter  ;  one  lb.  of  citron  ;  three  lbs.  of  raisins  ; 
two  lbs.  of  currants  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ;  two  cups  of  sweet 
milk  ;  two  wine-glasses  of  brandy  ;  four  teaspoons  of  cream- 
tartar  ;  two  teaspoons  of  soda  ;  nutmegs,  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon to  taste.  Mrs.  R.  Alyea. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  3. 

One  lb.  of  flour  ;  one  lb.  of  sugar;  eight  eggs;  three-quarters 
lb.  of  butter  ;  one  pint  of  molasses ;  three  lbs.  of  currants  ; 
one  lb.  of  citron  ;  four  lbs.  of  raisins  ;  one  gill  of  brandy  ; 
half  oz.  each  of  spices  of  all  kinds.     Bake  three  hours. 

Mrs.  Ida  R.  DeMott. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  4.— Very  Good. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  milk  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ; 
one  cup  of  butter  ;  four  eggs  ;  four  cups  of  flour  ;  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  ;  one  lb.  of  currants  ;  one  lb.  of  raisins  ;  half 
lb.  of  citron  ;  one  nutmeg  ;  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  to 
taste  ;  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  Mrs.  S.  P.  Roome. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  5. 

One  lb.  of  flour  ;  one  lb.  of  sugar;  three-quarter  lb.  of 
butter;  two  lbs.  of  seeded  raisins  ;  two  lbs.  of  currants  ;  one 
lb.  of  citron  ;  quarter  lb.  of  almonds  ;  half  oz.  of  mace  ;  one 
teaspoon  of  rose-water ;  one  wine-glass  of  brandy  ;  one  wine- 


66  DUTCH  (reformed) 


glass  of  wine  ;  ten  eggs  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda ;  two  tea- 
spoons of  cream-tartar.  Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  ; 
add  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  separately  ;  stir 
in  the  flour,  in  which  the  soda  and  cream-tartar  have  been 
sifted  ;  then  the  wine,  brandy  and  spices.  Add  the  fruit  just 
before  it  is  put  in  pans.  It  should  be  made  three  or  four 
weeks  before  it  is  used.  Miss  A.  Jones. 

PLAIN  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter  ;  two  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar  ;  four 
eggs  (separated)  ;  one  large  cup  of  milk  ;  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses ;  five  cups  of  flour  ;  one  lb.  of  raisins  ;  one  lb,  of  cur- 
rants ;  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  ;  half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  a  little  baking-powder  added  in  the  flour. 

Mrs.  C.  Elliott. 

POUND  CAKE.— No.  1. 

One  lb.  of  sugar;  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  one 
pound  of  flour ;  three  eggs  ;  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

J.  V.  R.  R. 

POUND  CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  lb.  of  sugar ;  one  lb.  of  flour  ;  half  lb.  of  butter ;  six 
eggs  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking-powder  ;  half  a  pint  of  milk; 
essence  of  lemon.  Miss  S.  Cammeyer. 

HALF-WAY  POUND  CAKE. 

Half  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  five 
eggs,  one  cup  thick  milk,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus,  lemon  to 
flavor.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Rterson. 

COTTAGE  POUND  CAKE. 

Mix  well  together  one  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  add  six  well  beaten  eggs,  stir  in  one  teacupful  of 
sweet  milk,  add  one  pound  of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Miss  Emily  Slingerland. 


COOK  BOOK.  67 


SPONGE  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of   water,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, a  pinch  of  salt ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Belle  and  Flora.  Van  Cleef. 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE, 
Six  eggs,  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  four  even  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  cream-tartar,  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  lemon.  First  beat  the  eggs 
two  minutes,  put  in  the  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes  more  ; 
then  stir  in  the  cream-tartar  and  two  cups  of  flour,  and  beat 
one  minute.  Now  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water  and  stir  in  ; 
having  grated  the  rind  of  the  lemon,  squeeze  in  half  the  juice 
only,  and  finally  add  the  other  two  cups  of  flour.  Beat  all 
one  minute  and  put  into  deep  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  DeBow. 
CITRON  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of   sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
three  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  Sea  Foam  powder,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  citron. 

Mrs.  p.  H.  Mandeville. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of   sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Mandeville. 

MARBLED  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  three  cups 
of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream-tartar.  When  the  cake  is  mixed, 
take  out  a  teacupful  of  batter  and  stir  into  this  two  spoonfuls 
of  grated  chocolate  wet  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Fill 
your  pan  an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter  ;  drop  upon  this, 
in  two  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of  the  dark  mixture,  j^ro- 
ceeding  in  this  order  until  all  is  used  up. 

Mrs.  Mary  Andruss. 


68  DUTCH  (eEFORMEd) 


DELICATE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  milk,  half  cup 
of  butter,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cream-tartar,  rubbed  in  the  flour  ; 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  ;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  add  last.  J.  M.  Van  Saun. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar,  one  of  soda  ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Miss  Jennie  Slingerland. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  cup  of  floiir,  one  small  teaspoon  of  cream-tartar, 
and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  The  sugar  must  be  sifted  once 
before  using,  and  the  flour  four  times,  adding  the  cream-tartar 
before  sifting  the  last  time.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  the  sugar,  flour  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  without  buttering  the  pan.  This  cake  is  best  baked  in  a 
smooth  cylinder  pan.  "When  it  is  done  invert  the  pan  so  that 
the  air  can  reach  it  while  cooling. 

Miss  H.  A.  Moeehouse. 

WATERMELON  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  half  paper  of  corn- 
starch, three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teasjioon  of  pul- 
verized cochineal,  half  teaspoon  of  pulverized  alum.  Mix  the 
cochineal  and  alum  together  and  dissolve  in  four  teaspoons  of 
boiling  water,  strain  through  a  thin  cloth  ;  take  one-third  of 
the  cake  batter  and  stir  this  in.  Put  the  batter  in  the  pan  the 
same  as  for  marble  cake.  E.  G.  D. 

PORK   CAKE. 

One  pound  of  salt  pork,  chopped  fine  ;  pour  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  upon  it ;  stir  together  one  pound  of  seeded  rais- 


COOK  BOOK.  69 


ins,  quarter  pound  of  citron,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasscB,  one  teaspoouful  of  saleratus  (dissolved  in  the  mo- 
lasses), flour  enough  for  the  consistency  of  common  cake-bat- 
ter, one  ounce  of  nutmeg,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of 
cinnamon,  Mrs.  E.  Stevens. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  butter  ;  three  cups  of  sugar  ;  one 
cup  of  sour  milk  ;  five  cups  of  flour  ;  five  eggs ;  one  teaspoon 
of  soda ;  one  pound  of  raisins  ;  one  teaspoon  each  of  cin- 
namon, cloves,  nutmeg  and  allspice.  ,    Miss  K.  D.  K. 

METHODIST  CAKE. 

Four  eggs  ;  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  one-half  pound  of  butter  ; 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  four  cups  of  flour  ;  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream-tartar  ;  one  of  soda  ;  flavor  to  taste.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  the  milk  ;  mix  the  cream-tartar  with  the  flour. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 

NOTHING  CAKE. 

One  egg  ;  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  one 
cup  of  milk  ;  one  pint  of  flour ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
tartar  ;  one  of  soda.  Divide  the  milk,  disolving  the  cream 
tartar  in  one  portion,  the  soda  in  the  other  ;  pour  one  into  the 
other,  to  effervesce  ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Rterson. 

SISTER  MAGGIE'S  CAKE. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  ;  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
butter  ;  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  three  cups  of  flour  ;  one  lemon 
(juice  and  rind);  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  M. 
GOLD  CAKE. 

The  yolks  of  eight  eggs  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  butter  ;  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour;  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  V.  R. 


70  DUTCH  (reformed) 


SILVER  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  three  cups  of  flour  ; 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ; 
whites  of  seven  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  added  the 
last  thing.  Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 

LUNCHEON  CAKE. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  warm  it,  stir  in  flour  till  you  have 
a  thick  batter  ;  then  add  one  teacup  of  yeast  and  set  to  rise. 
When  light  stir  in  flour  till  quite  thick  ;  then  stir  in  one  tea- 
cupful  of  melted  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Stir,  until  as  thick  as  you  can  stir  with  a 
spoon.  Have  dripping-pans  buttered  ;  take  a  spoon  and  spread 
the  batter  on  them  quite  thin,  say  an  inch  or  so,  and  put  away 
to  rise.  In  order  to  spread  the  mixture  you  will  need  a  pan 
of  melted  butter  to  dip  your  spoon  in  and  spread  on  the  cake. 
Put  on  enough  melted  butter  to  have  it  smooth  on  the  top. 
After  it  has  risen  very  light^  sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over 
it  and  bake.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 
One  coffee-cup  of  sugar  ;  one  of  butter  ;  one  of  molasses  ; 
one  of  strong  coffee  ;  four  of  flour  ;  two  eggs  ;  one  teaspoon 
of  cloves;  one  of  cinnamon;  one  of  allspice  ;  one  of  mace  ;  two 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  ;  one  wineglass 
of  brandy  ;  two  pounds  of  raisins  ;  two  of  currants  ;  one-half 
pound  of  citron.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Berry. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 
One  pound  of  flour  ;    one  pound  of  sugar  ;    one-half  pound 
of  butter  ;    five  eggs  ;    one  cup  of   milk  ;    two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  ;  a  little  salt.  C.  V. 

AUSTIN  CAKE. 
Three  cups  of  sugar  ;  five  cups  of  flour  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ; 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  ;    one  pound  of   raisins  ;    two 
eggs  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ;  two  of  cream-tartar. 

Mrs.  S.  p.  Roomb. 


COOK  BOOK.  71 


HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  ;  half  a  cup  of  butter  ;  two 
cups  of  flour  ;  whites  of  four  eggs  ;  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
milk  ;  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  ;  one  cup  of  hickoiy- 
nut  meats. 

Mrs.  L.  L.  R. 

SNOW-FLAKE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  of  butter ;  whites  of  seven  eggs  ; 
one  cup  of  corn  starch;  two  of  flour;  (mix  the  flour  and  corn 
starch  together  and  flavor  with  vanilla) ;  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  The  yolks  of  the  eggs  may  be  used  for 
gold  cake.  Mrs.  A.  Van  Saun. 


LAYER     OAKE 


LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Cake. — Three  eggs  ;  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  ;  a  scant 
half  cup  of  butter  ;  a  half  cup  of  milk  ;  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  flour  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  the 
flour. 

Jelly. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  one  small  tea- 
cup of  water  ;  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  ;  one  egg  ;  a  little 
butter  and  salt  ;    sweetening  to  taste.     Boil  until  it  is  thick. 

Mrs.  a.  V.  S. 

LEMON  CREAM  CAKE. 

Cake. — One  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar  ;  four  eggs  ;  one 
half  cup  of  butter  ;  two  cups  of  flour ;  one  half  cup  of 
water. 

Cream,  Filling. — One  egg  ;  one  cup  of  water  ;  one  cup  of 
sugar ;  one  teaspoon  of  coru  starch  ;  lemon  to  taste. 

Mrs.  J.  R  E. 


Y2  DUTCH   (kEFORMKd) 


COCOANUT  JELLY  CAKE.— No.  1. 

Four  eggs,  beaten  liglit;  one  and  a  half  cups  of  white  sugar; 
two  cups  of  flour ;  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  in  the  flour  ; 
two  teaspoons  of  cream-tartar;  six  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream; 
flavor  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — One  cocoanut,  grated;  three  tablespoons  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  stiff  ;  three  tablespoons 
of  cream. 

Set  the  cake  in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Jacob  De  Bow. 

COCOANUT  JELLY  CAKE.— No.  3. 
Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  half  a  cup  of  butter  ;  three  eggs  ;  one 
cuj)  of  milk ;    three  cups  of  flour  ;    two  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar  ;  one  of  soda. 

Filling. — One  grated  cocoanut ;  add  to  one-half  of  it  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  one  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar  ;  mix  with  the  other  half  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  strew  thickly  over  the  top  of  the  cake. 

Mrs.  M.  a. 
ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs;  one  cup  of  butter ;  two  cups  of  sugar; 
two  cups  of  flour  ;  one  cuj)  of  corn  starch  ;  one  cup  of 
milk;  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  S.  DeMott. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Two  teacups  of  sugar  ;  three  quarters  (scant)  of  a  cup  of 
butter  ;  four  eggs;  one  teacup  of  sweet  milk;  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour,  sifted;  one  teaspoon  of  soda;  two  of  cream-tar- 
tar. Beat  butter  and  sugar  well  together  ;  then  add  eggs, 
milk,  spice  and  flour.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  This  will  make 
four  layers  of  plain  cake,  and  the  i-emaining  batter  will  pro- 
vide the  dark  layers  by  adding  one  large  tablespoon  of  mo- 
lasses; one  half  pound  each  of  raisins,  currants  and  citron,  all 
chopped  fine  ;    a  little  more  flour  to  stiffen  suflSciently.     This 


COOK  BOOK.  73 


will  make  two  layers  of  dark  cake  to  alternate  with  the  plain. 
Spread  with  icing  or  jelly,  when  putting  together. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  R. 
OKANGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar;  yolks  of  five  eggs,  whites  of  two;  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  ;  two  tea 
spoons  of  baking  powder  ;  juice  and  riud  of  one  orange. 

Joining. — Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
seven  large  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  orange.     Spread  tliis  between  the  layers. 

Mes.  Pauline  Rykrson. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar  ;  three  eggs;  one  scant  cup  of 
sweet  milk  ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter  ;  one-half  teaspoon  of 
bitter  almond  flavoring  ;  three  cups  of  flour  ;  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together, 
adding  the  milk  gradually  ;  then  the  eggs  (well  beaten) — re- 
serving the  white  of  one  for  frosting  the  top  of  the  cake  ;  a 
little  salt  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  The  two  flavor- 
ings, as  of  vanilla  and  bitter  almond,  will  blend  pleasantly 
together. 

Filling. — A  half  pint  of  sweet  milk  ;  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons of  corn  starch ;  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  one 
egg, ;  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  Have  the  milk  boiling  hot  ; 
stir  in  the  corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk  ;  beat  the 
egg  and  sugar  together ;  add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk  to  it ; 
then  stir  in  the  custard  until  quite  thick.  Flavor  when  cold, 
and  spread  between  the  cakes.  Miss  E.  D. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.— Very  Nice. 
Two  eggs  ;    one  cup  of  white  sugar  ;    half  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  quarter  cup  of  butter  ;    one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  ;    a 
little  salt;  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.     Bake 
in  jelly  tins. 

Chocolate  Filling. — One   and   a   half  bars   of    chocolate, 


74  DUTCH  (reformed) 


grated  ;   the  white  of  one  egg  ;   three  heaping  tablespoons  of 
pulverized  sugar.     Mix  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  S. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE.— No.  2. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  yolks  of  five  eggs ; 
whites  of  two  eggs  ;  one  cup  of  milk  ;  three  and  a  half  cups 
of  flour  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream-tartar  ;  half  a  teaspoon  of 
soda.     Bake  the  same  as  jelly  cake. 

Filling. — Half  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  three  tablespoons  of  grated 
chocolate;  one  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla.  Beat  well  and 
spread  between  the  layers  and  on  the  top. 

Mrs.  H.  Van  Ness. 
CREAM    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour;  one  of  sugar;  one  half  pound  of  butter; 
one  half  pint  of  cream  ;  four  eggs  ;  one  pound  of  currants; 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream-tartar. 

Cream  filling. — One  half  pint  of  milk ;  two  small  teaspoons 
of  corn  starch;  one  half  cup  of  sugar  ;  one  Gg^\  one  teaspoon 
of  lemon.  Let  the  mixture  cool  before  you  flavor,  and 
spread  on  the  cake.  Mrs.  L.  M.  R. 

APPLE  JELLY  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  scant  cup  of  butter  ;  four  eggs  ; 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  four  cups  of  flour.  Use  Sea  Foam 
powder  in  the  flour  and  flavor  to  taste.  This  will  make  four 
layers. 

Jelly  filling. — One  cup  of  sugar  ;  four  large  apples,  grated  ; 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  one  egg.  Boil  the  mix- 
ture and  when  nearly  boiled  put  in  the  egg. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  R. 

ROCHESTER  JELLY  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of  sugar;  one  of  sweet  milk;  three  of  flour;  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter  ;  three  eggs ;  one  teaspoon  of  baking- 
powder.     To  one-third  of  the  mixture,  add  one  teaspoon  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of   raisins,  a  quarter  of   a  pound  of   sliced 


COOK  BOOK.  75 


citron,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves 
and  allspice,  half  a  nutmeg  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Bake 
in  jelly  tins,  putting  the  spice  cake  between  the  other  two 
layers.     Spread  jelly  over  each  layer.  Mrs.  L.  L.  R. 

PINE-APPLE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter ;  two  of  sugar  ;  one  of  milk  ;  three  of 
flour ;  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  yolks  of  four  ;  three  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  well  mixed  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  jelly- 
cake  pans. 

Filling. — Grate  one  pine-apple,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  put 
between  the  layers.  Mrs.  G.  G.  Van  Ness. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE. 

Black. — One  cup  of  butter  ;  two  scant  cups  of  brown  sugar  ; 
one  cup  of  molasses  ;  one  cup  of  strong  coffee ;  four  and  a  half 
cups  of  sifted  flour ;  four  eggs  ;  two  teaspoons  of  soda  ;  four 
of  cream-tartar  ;  two  of  cinnamon  ;  two  of  cloves  ;  one  of 
mace  ;  one  pound  of  raisins  ;  one  of  currants  ;  one  quarter 
pound  of  citron. 

White. — One  cup  of  butter  ;  four  of  sugar  ;  two  of  sweet 
milk  ;  four  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour  ;  two  of  corn  starch, 
mixed  with  the  flour  ;  whites  of  eight  eggs  ;  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  ;  two  of  cream-tartar. 

The  cakes  should  be  baked  in  pans  with  straight  sides.  After 
the  cakes  are  cold,  the  black  loaf  should  be  spread  with  a 
thick  coating  of  the  following  mixture  :  the  white  of  one  egg 
well  beaten  ;  the  grated  rind  of  t^vo  and  juice  of  tliree  lem- 
ons ;  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  thick  frosting.  Then  alter- 
nate the  loaves  and  frost  as  any  other  cake. 

Miss  A.  Jones. 

JELLY  CAKE. 

Tw^o  cups  of  sugar  ;  three  eggs  ;  half  cup  of  butter ;  three 
cups  of  flour  ;  one  cup  of  milk.  Use  prepared  flour.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins.     Spread  with  any  fruit  jelly. 


76  DUTCH  (reformed) 


ICING-S. 


ICING  FOR  ICE-CREAM  CAKE. 
Whites  of  five  eggs  ;  four  cups  of  sugar  ;  half  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  clear  and 
candied;  beat  the  eggs  light,  pour  the  syrup  on  the  eggs  and 
beat  until  cold  ;  then  flavor  with  vanilla;  dissolve  citric  acid 
the  size  of  a  pea  and  put  in  the  icing.  Have  the  cake  cold 
when  the  icing  is  put  on.  Mrs.  S.  DeMott. 

SOFT  ICING  OR  FROSTING. 
White  of  one  egg,  and  sugar  enough  to  make  it  stiff.     Put 
the  sugar  with  the  egg  before  beating,  and  then  beat  until  very- 
light.  Mrs.  a.  V.  S. 

SOFT  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 
One  scant  cup  of   sugar  ;   a  half  cup  of   grated  chocolate; 
whites  of  two  eggs.     One  half  of   this  is  sufficient  for  a  me- 
dium-sized cake.  Miss  A.  L.  Berry. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  ICING. 
One  cup  of  grated  chocolate  ;  two  cups  of  brown  sugar; 
one  wine  glass  of  water.  Boil  the  mixture  until  it  will 
harden  when  dropped  into  water  ;  then  lose  no  time  in  pour- 
ing it  over  the  cake  while  it  is  hot,  or  it  will  harden  before 
you  get  it  on.  Mrs.  J.  H.  W. 

SMALL    CAKES. 


CHEAP  POUND  CAKE. 

Two  cujjs  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  two-thirds  cup  of 
milk  ;  five  eggs  ;  three  cups  of  flour  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  ;  a  little  salt.     Bake  in  patty  tins.  C.  V. 

SUGAR  KISSES. 
Whisk  the   whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir   in 
half  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste.     When 
stiff,  put   in  heaps  on  white  paper,  each  being  the  shape  and 


COOK  BOOK.  77 


half  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  an  incli  apart.  Place  them  on  a 
board  which  is  half  an  inch  thick,  and  put  them  into  a  hot 
oven.  When  they  turn  a  little  yellowish,  slip  off  the  paper 
on  a  table  and  let  them  cool  five  minutes.  Then  slip  off  two 
of  the  kisses  from  the  table  with  a  knife  and  join  the  bottom 
parts  together  which,  if  pressed  gently,  will  adhere.  Then 
lay  them  on  a  plate  and  continue  until  all  are  thus  prepared. 
These  look  handsomely,  and  are  very  delicate  and  good. 

Mrs.  W.  R. 

BACHELOR  BUTTONS. 

Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  into  five  ounces  of  flour  ;  add  five 
ounces  of  sugar.  Beat  one  egg  with  half  the  sugar,  then  put 
it  to  the  other  ingredients  ;  add  flavoring  to  the  taste.  Roll 
in  the  hand  to  the  size  of  a  nut  ;  spi'inkle  with  white  sugar 
and  bake  in  tins  on  buttered  paper.     Brown  slightly. 

Miss  A.  Jones. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Melt  one-half  cup  of  butter  in  one  cup  of  hot  water  and, 
while  boiling,  beat  in  one  cup  of  flour  ;  take  from  the  stove 
and  cool  ;  when  cool,  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without 
beating  ;  drop  on  tins  quickly,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Cream  filling. — One-haK  pint  of  milk  ;  one  egg  ;  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar  ;  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Boil  the 
same  as  any  mock-cream,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  When 
baked,  open  the  side  of  each  puff  and  fill  with  the  cream. 

Mrs.  a.  V.  N. 

COCOANUT  DROPS. 

One  cocoamit,  grated  ;  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten  ; 
one-half  lb.  of  sifted  white  sugar  ;  flavor  with  rose  water  or 
lemon.  Mix  all  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred,  lay  in  heaps,  an 
inch  apart,  on  paper  and  place  on  a  baking  tin  ;  put  them  in  a 
quick  oven  and  take  them  out  when  they  have  browned  very 
slightly.  Mrs.  W.  R. 


78  DUTCH  (kEFORMED) 

COCOANUT  PUFFS. 

Mix  two  cups  of  cocoanut  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour 
or  corn  starch  ;  drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  quick. 

Miss  C.  V. 

HARD  WAFFLES. 

One  lb.  of  butter ;  three-quarters  lb.  of  sugar ;  three 
eggs  ;  two  lbs.    of  flour.     Bake  in  a  waffle  iron  and  eat  cold. 

Miss  M.  F.  V.  H. 

GRANDMA'S  CRULLERS. 

A  small  teacup,  half  full  of  lard  or  drippings  ;  one  egg ; 
nutmeg  to  taste  ;  one  bowlful  of  sugar  ;  one  bowlful  of 
buttermilk  ;  a  large  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a 
half  cupful  of  warm  sour  milk  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  To 
be  made  stiff  with  flour  ;  cut  in  any  shapes  desired,  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard.  Miss  A.  E.  S. 

CRULLERS.— No.  1. 

Four  even  tablespoons  of  butter ;  ten  tablespoons  of  sugar  ; 
three  eggs  ;  one  coffee-cup  of  milk ;  one  teaspoon  of  salera- 
tus ;  one  nutmeg.     To  be  made  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 

Mrs.  Mart  Rterson. 

CRULLERS.— No   2. 

Five  eggs,  yolks  and  whites,  beaten  separately ;  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard  ;  two 
heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ;  one  nutmeg  (grated)  ; 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Knead  just  stiff  enough  to  roll,  and  cut  any 
shape  you  wish.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Beebe. 

EXTRA  CRULLERS. 

Six  eggs  ;  three  cups  of  sugar  ;  two  eupa  of  sour  cream  ; 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  soda  ;  one  teaspoon  of  salt ;  flavor 
to  taste.  Mrs.  T.  Ryerson. 

GILMOR'S  CRULLERS. 

One  cup  of  sugar  ;  one  egg ;  one-half  pint  of  milk  ;  butter, 


COOK  BOOK.  79 


the  size  of  an  egg  ;  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Put  all  together  in  the  flour  and  knead  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 

FRENCH  JUMBLES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  a  half  cup  of  butter  ;  four  cups  of  flour  ; 
three  eggs  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar  ;  with  or  without  spice.  Roll  out,  and  bake 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Rybrson. 

JUMBLES. 

One  lb.  of  sugar  ;  one  lb.  of  butter  ;  two  lbs.  of  flour ; 
three  eggs  ;  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Keep  a  little 
of  the  sugar  to  roll  them  in.  Mrs.  M.  J.  D. 

COOKIES.— No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  flour  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  a  half  cup  of  butter 
or  lard  ;  two  eggs  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  milk  ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-tar- 
tar ;  flour  to  roll  out  thin  ;  cut  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Baxter. 

COOKIES.— No.  2. 
Two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk  ;  two  eggs  ;  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ;  flavor  to 
taste.     Mix  stiff  and  bake  in  a   quick  oven.     The  above  re- 
cipe is  very  much  improved  by  adding  grated  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  J.  V.  R.  R. 

DOUGHNUTS.— No.  1. 

Three  eggs  ;  two  cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of   sweet  milk  ; 

butter   the  size  of  an  egg  ;  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus  dissolved 

in   a  little  hot  water  ;   one   scant  teaspoon   of  cream-tartar  ; 

flour  enough  to  roll  without  sticking  to  the  moulding-board. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  S. 

DOUGHNUTS— No.  2. 

One-half  lb.  of  butter  ;  one  half  lb.  of  sugar  ;  three  eggs  ; 
one  pint  of  milk  ;  one  teacup  of  yeast.  Mrs.  M.  J.  D. 


80  DUTCH  (reformed) 


NEW  YEAR'S  CAKES. 

Six  lbs.  of  flour  ;  two  and  a  half  lbs.  of  sugar;  one-half  lb. 
of  butter  ;  one  oz.  of  hartshorn;  two  ozs.  of  caraway  seed  ; 
one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  sugar,  hartshorn  and  seeds  ; 
rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  ;  then  stir  in  the  liquid  ; 
roll  out  and  cut  with  cake-cutters.  Miss  E.  G.  D. 

MOLASSES    CAKE. 


GINGER  SNAPS.— No.  1. 
One  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  one 
of  molasses  ;  a  half  cup  of  water  ;  one  tablespoon  of  ginger  ; 
one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves  ;  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water  ;  flour  to  make  the  dough 
quite  stiff.     Roll  out  thinner  than  sugar  cakes.    Bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  R. 

GINGER  SNAPS— No.  2. 

One-half  cup  of  butter  ;  one-half  cup  of  lard  ;  one  table- 
spoon of  ginger  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ;  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  ;  a  little  salt.  IVliss  C.  V. 

GINGER  SNAPS.— No.  3. 
One  cup  of  lard  ;  two  cups  of  molasses  ;  one  tablespoon  of 
ginger  ;  one  tablespoon  of  saleratus  or  soda,  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  cup  of  hot  water.  Put  all  together  in  flour  with  a 
little  salt ;  knead  stiff  and  roll  out  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Berry. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 
One  cup  of  molasses,  one  half  cup  of  butter  ;   one   cup   of 
Bweet  milk ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ;   flour  to  mix  stiff  enough 
to  bake  on  the  griddle.  A.  V.  N. 

GINGER  CRACKERS. 
One  pint  of  molasses,  one  cuj)  of  butter  ;  one  cup  of  sugar; 
three  tablespoons   of   ginger  ;  three    teaspoons  of    saleratus, 
dissolved  in  a  half  cuj^  of  boiling  water.       Mary  Uyerson. 


COOK  BOOK.  81 


MAGGIE'S  MOLASSES  CAKE. 
One  teacup  each  of  molasses,  sugar  and  sour  milk  ;  a  scant 
cup  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed  ;  one  teaspoon   of  soda  ;  two 
eggs  ;  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cup-cake  batter  ;  spice  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  M. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  molasses;   two-thirds   cup   of  melted  butter; 
three-fourths  cup  of  milk  ;  two  and   one-half  cups   of   flour  ; 
one  egg  ;  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus  ;  a  little  salt. 

Miss  M.  F.  R. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD.— No.  1. 
One-half  cup  of  butter  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ;  one   cup   of 
sugar  ;  one  cup  of  sour  or  buttermilk  ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda; 
one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  ;  one  tablespoon   of   ginger ;   two 
eggs;  five  cups  of  flour.  Mrs.  P.  R. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD.— No.  3. 
One  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  beaten  to- 
gether ;  then  add  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  sour  cream,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  another  cup  of  flour, 
one  tablespoon  of  ground  ginger,  one  tablespoon  of  cinna- 
mon ;  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  three  cups  of  fruit,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  and  finally  a  third  cup  of  flour.  Mrs.  L.  M.  R. 

MOLASSES  FRUIT  CAKE— No.  1. 

Two  eggs  ;  two  cups  of  molasses  ;  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  butter  ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  one  teaspoon  of 
soda;  one  teaspoon  of  lemon;  one  pound  each  of  raisins,  cur- 
rants and  citron;  spice  to  taste;  a  little  brandy;  flour  to  make 
batter.  Miss  Susie  Stiles. 

MOLASSES  FRUIT  CAKE.— No.  2. 
One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  two 
pounds  of  raisins,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  pow- 
der. Mrs.  Nichols. 


82  DUTCH  (reformed) 


MOLASSES  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  molasses,  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  half  cup  of 
sugar,  a  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk,  rind  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.     Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Chocolate  Filling. — One  cake  of  sweet  chocolate,  four  table- 
spoons of  water  ;  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut;  sweeten  to 
taste.     Boil  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  B. 

SOFT  MOLASSES  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  tablespoon 
of  ginger,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  rind  of  one  lemon, 
two  teaspoons  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  large  spoonful  of 
water.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  four  well 
beaten  eggs  ;  lastly,  flour  and  milk  added. 

Miss  J.  M.  V.  S. 


COOK  BOOK,  83 


^W®^Am©P*  ^JSEIAMIJ®  mtm^ 


TAPIOCA  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  granulated 
tapioca  ;  sweeten  to  taste  ;  salt ;  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon. 
Cook  in  a  farina  kettle,  or  in  a  tin  pail  boiled  in  a  pot  of 
water.  Mrs.  J.  H.  S. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  lemons,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch.  Grate  the  peel  of  the  lemons  and  put  four 
cups  of  boiling  water  on  it.  Let  it  boil  while  you  mix  the 
corn  starch.  Strain  the  lemon  peel ;  put  that  water  and  the 
juice  of  the  lemons  back  and  let  it  boil  ;  stir  in  the  corn 
starch  ;  while  that  is  boiling  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  stir  them 
in,  then  turn  out  in  a  pudding  dish  to  cool.     Mrs.  M.  S.  R. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoons  of  com  starch, 
six  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  of  grated  chocolate,  a  little 
salt.  Wet  the  corn  starch  wath  milk,  and  also  the  chocolate, 
to  make  it  even.  Have  the  milk  neai'ly  boiling  ;  stir  in  the 
corn  starch  ;  boil  it  two  minutes.  After  taking  it  from  the 
stove  stir  in  the  chocolate.    To  be  eaten  cold  with  milk  sauce. 

Satcce. — One  half  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
one  half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  a  little  nutmeg. 

]\Irs.  L.  L.  Ryerson. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  ]\LVNGE. 
Three  pints  of  rich  milk  ;  set  over  the  fire  to  boil  ;  dissolve 
one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  ;  grate  one 


84  DUTCH  (reformed) 


large  cup  of  chocolate  and  add  to  it  a  little  cold  millc,  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  When  the  milk 
is  nearly  boiling  pour  in  the  mixture,  then  add  the  gelatine 
and  boil  five  minutes.     Pour  into  moulds. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Berry. 

CORN  STARCH  BLANC  MANGE. 

Make  a  corn  starch  pudding  with  one  quart  of  milk,  four 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
when  done  remove  about  lialf  and  flavor  to  taste.  To  the 
remainder  add  a  beaten  egg  and  two  ounces  of  vanilla  choco- 
late. Put  in  a  mould,  alternately,  the  dark  and  light  por- 
tions.    Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  sugar. 

Miss  A.  F.  D. 
FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Heat  one  quart  of  milk  ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  when 
nearly  boiling,  pour  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  thoroughly 
beaten,  stirring  briskly  until  the  custard  is  cooked  ;  flavor  as 
you  like.  Turn  this  in  a  suitable  deej)  dish  and  set  in  a  cool 
place. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  turn  them  in  a  colan- 
der and  pour  boiling  water  through  the  foam  ;  shake  it  to- 
gether and  turn  it  carefully  on  the  custard.  Keep  in  a  cool 
place  till  used.  Mrs.  M.  J.  D. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 
Dissolve  one  half  packet  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  cup  of 
warm  milk  ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  pint  of  well- 
sweetened  cream  ;  add  two  teasj^oons  of  essence  of  vanilla  and 
a  wine-glass  of  wine  ;  set  on  ice  to  stiffen  a  little.  Then 
beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  thoroughly  ;  add  to  the  rest ; 
return  to  the  ice  until  stiff.  Put  into  cups,  lined  with  sponge 
cake.     Keep  cool  until  used.     If  too  thick  add  milk  or  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  Elliott. 

PREPARED  RICE  FOR  DINNER  OR  SUPPER, 
Boil  the  rice  fifteen   minutes  in  salted  water  ;   pour  off  the 
water,  pour  in  milk  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  till  the  rice  is 


COOK  BOOK.  85 


soft.  There  should  be  sufficient  inilk  to  make  tlie  rice  thick 
so  that  it  can  be  put  in  cups  and  turned  out,  keeping  its  form. 
Fill  small  teacups  with  this  rice  and  invert  them  in  a  shallow 
dish.  On  the  summit  of  each  one  make  an  opening  with  a 
teaspoon  and  lay  a  piece  of  jelly.  Then  pour  into  the  dish  a 
custard  made  of  two  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk. 

Mrs.  W.  R. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Six  fine  pippins  ;  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar  ;  one  lemon, 
juice  and  half  the  grated  peel  ;  one  pint  of  milk  ;  four  eggs. 
Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  one  cup  of  the  sugar  and  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Bake  the  apples,  without  peeling  or  coring, 
in  a  covered  dish  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning.  The 
apples  should  be  so  tender  that  a  straw  will  pierce  them. 
Take  off  the  skins  and  scrape  out  the  pulp  ;  mix  in  the  sugar 
and  lemon;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  light  and  beat  in  the 
pulp  by  degrees,  until  very  white  and  firm.  Put  the  custard, 
when  cold,  into  a  glass  bowl  and  pile  the  snow  upon  it. 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Roome. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk;  one  quart  of  milk  to  boil.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth;  beat  the  yolks  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  When 
the  milk  is  nearly  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine,  yolks,  sugar  and 
one  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  Pour  this,  boiling  hot,  on  the  beaten 
whites,  stirring  constantly.  Mrs.  J.  M.  B, 

COFFEE  CUSTARD. 
Half  a  pint  of  rich  cream  ;   half  a  cup  of  cold  coffee  ;   four 
eggs  ;   sugar  to  taste.  Miss  A.  F.  D. 

VELVET  CREAM. 
One  and  a  half  pints  of  cream,  whipped;  half  a  box  of  Cox's 
gelatine;    one   heaping   cup  of  powdered  sugar;    two  wine- 
glasses of  sherry  wine.     Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  warm  water,  until  all  is  dissolved ;  then  strain  into  the 


86  DUTCH  (reformed) 


whipped  cream,  add  the  sugar  and  wine  and  pour  into  a  mould. 
Set  on  the  ice  to  stiffen.  After  twenty  minutes,  beat 
thoroughly,  as  the  cream  will  rise  to  the  top  ;  repeat  this 
again  in  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  quince  or  currant 
jelly.  Mrs.  M.  R.  K 

ICE  CREAM. 
Two  quarts  of  milk  ;   three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  ; 
six  eggs  ;   one  teaspoon  of  lemon  or  other  essence. 

Mrs.  Quinlan. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 
Four  quarts  of  milk  ;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  ;  one 
quart  of  cream ;  two  ounces  of  gelatine  ;  three  squares  of 
chocolate.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  milk,  over  night. 
Grate  the  chocolate  finely,  dissolve  in  milk  and  mix  all  together, 
adding  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla.     Then  freeze. 

LEMON  ICE. 

To  a  quart  of  lemonade  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  cut  to  a 
froth  and  freeze.  Mrs.  W.  R. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  paper  of  Cox's  gelatine  ;  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  two 
hours  :  then  add  one  and  a  half  pints  of  boiling  water,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  rhid  of  one  lomon 
and  one  pint  of  wine.  Stir  until  dissolved  and  strain  through 
a  flannel  bag  into  moulds.  Miss  J.  M.  V.  S. 

LEMON  JELLY. 
Two  ozs.  of  Cooper's  gelatine  ;  the  juice  of  five  lemons  ; 
one  and  a  half  lbs.  of  sugar.  Soak  these  together  in  one  pint 
of  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  add  three  pints  of 
boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  sugar  and  gelatine  are  dis- 
solved. Then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  and  pour  into 
moulds.  Put  in  a  cool  place  to  stiffen.  Dip  the  moulds 
in  cold  water,   to  prevent   the  jelly  from  sticking. 

Miss  A.  E.  Graham. 


COOK  BOOK.  87 


MIIFS  ^m€  ^»PE1WE®  PaWl^S® 


Fresh  fruits  are  very  necessary  to  perfect  health.  Figs, 
dates  and  bananas,  either  fresh  or  preserved,  are  very  health- 
ful, nutritious  fruits.  The  sensible  as  well  as  pleasing  cus- 
tom of  serving  fruit  as  a  first  course  at  breakfast  should  be 
practiced  in  every  house,  as  far  as  possible.  One  nice  way  to 
serve  strawberries  is  to  send  the  large  fine  ones  to  the  table 
with  the  hulls  on,  and  put  at  each  plate  a  little  dish  con- 
taining sugar,  so  that  the  berries  may  be  dipped  in  it  and 
eaten. 

AMBROSIA. 

Eight  fine  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced  ;  half  a  grated 
cocoanut ;  half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Slice  the  oranges 
in  a  glass  dish  ;  scatter  the  grated  cocoanut  thickly  over 
them  ;  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar  and  cover  with 
another  layer  of  orange.  Fill  the  dish  in  this  order,  having 
a  double  quantity  of  cocoanut  and  sugar  at  the  top.  Serve 
soon  after  it  is  prepared.  Miss  A.  E.  Cooper. 

FROSTED  PEACHES. 

Twelve  large  rich  peaches  ;  whites  of  three  eggs,  whipped 
to  a  standing  froth  ;  two  tablespoons  of  water  ;  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar.  Put  the  water  and  beaten  whites  together, 
dip  in  each  peach  when  you  have  rubbed  off  the  fur  and  roll 
in  the  powdered  sugar.  Set  carefully  on  the  stem-end  upon 
white  paper,  laid  on  a  waiter  in  a  sunny  window.  When  half 
dry,  roll  again  in  sugar  ;  expose  to  sun  and  breeze  until  dry  ; 
then  put  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place  until  ready  to  arrange  in  a 
glass  dish  for  the  table.  Miss  Maey  S. 


88  DUTCH  (reformed) 


EXCELLENT  BAKED  APPLES. 

Take  ten  or  twelve  good-sized,  juicy  apples,  pare  and  core 
them.  Butter  the  dish,  put  the  apples  in  and  fill  the  cavities 
with  sugar.  Take  a  half  teacup  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon 
of  flour,  rubbed  together  until  smooth ;  to  this  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  it  thin  enough  to  cover  the  apples. 
Grate  nutmeg  over  them.  Miss  Elmira  Dullegae. 

RHUBARB  SAUCE. 

Strip  the  thin  skin  from  the  rhubarb  ;  cut  the  stalk  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long  ;  wash  and  put  in  a  stew-pan,  cover- 
ing with  boiling  water ;  in  an  hour,  pour  off  the  water.  To 
each  quart  of  rhubarb  add  one-foui-th  of  a  cupful  of  water  and 
one  large  cupful  of  sugar  ;  stew  up  quickly  and  cool  in  an 
earthen  dish.     This  gives  a  light  green  sauce.         L.  A.  W. 


COOK  BOOK.  89 


FOR  CANNING  PINE- APPLES. 
Take  one  dozen  pine-apples,  peel  and  slice.  Put  tliem  in  a 
chopping  bowl,  add  five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  then 
chop  quite  fine.  Put  in  cans ;  set  the  cans  in  a  kettle  of 
cold  water  and  let  it  boil  thirty  minutes.  Then  take  them 
off  and  seal.  Mrs.  R.  A. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 
Cut  in  quarters  ;    boil   until  tender  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water  ;  put  through  a  fine  sieve.     To  every  pint  of  pulp,  add 
one   pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  about  half   an   hour,  stirring 
frequently.     It  should  be  thick  and  firm  when  cold. 
PINEAPPLE  MARIVIALADE. 
Peel  and  grate  the  pine-apples,  adding  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar.     Let  it  boil  gently  about  twenty  minutes. 
FRUIT  JELLIES. 
To  every  pint  of  juice,  add  one  pound  of  sugar.     Fruit  not 
too  ripe  is  better  for  jellies.     When   the  juice  is  ready  and 
has  boiled   fifteen   minutes,    add   sugar  that   has  also  been 
heated.     Then  take  off  and  pour  in  glasses.      Mrs.  J.  R.  E. 
PIPPIN  APPLE  JELLY. 
Wash  and   quarter  some  pippin  apples  ;  stew  them  until 
soft  ;  then  strain.     Take  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Flavor  with  lemon.     Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  B. 
BRANDY  PEACHES. 
Seven  lbs.  sugar  to  nine  lbs.  peaches  ;  one  quart  of  brandy. 
Boil  them  in  water  till  you  can  stick  a  fork  in  them  easily. 
Take  them  out  and  pour  the  brandy  over  them.  Let  them 
stand  until  you  have  dissolved  the  sugar,  and  allowed  it  to 
boil  one  minute  ;  then  pour  it  over  the  peaches. 

Mrs.  N.  J.  DoRBMus. 


90  DUTCH  (reformed) 


©AMP)1M1P® 


COCOANUT  CANDY. 
Two  cups  of  white  sugar  ;  one-quarter  cup  of  water.     Boil 
five  minutes  ;  stir  until  cool.     When  it  begins  to  get  stiff,  stir 
in  the  grated  cocoanut.  Mes.  Susie  Stiles. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 
One  cup  of  light-brown  sugar  ;  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  not 
too  strong  ;  half  a  cup  of  butter  ;   flavor  with   vanilla  and 
boil  twenty  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.— No.  1. 
Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  molasses  ;  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  ;  three  tablespoons  of  flour.     Boil  twenty-five 
minutes  ;  stir  in  half  a  lb.  of  chocolate  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Doremus. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.— No.  2. 
One  cup  each  of  grated  chocolate,  milk,  molasses  and  brown 
sugar  ;  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg.     Boil  till  it  drops  hard,  pour 
in  a  buttered  tin,  and  before  it  gets  cool  mark  off  in  squares. 

M.  F.  V.  H. 

BILL  OF  PARE  FOR  EVERY  DAY  IN  THE  WEEK. 


SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beef  steak,  omelette,  baked  potatoes,  oatmeal 
chocolate  or  coffee. 

I>mner. — Cold  boiled  ham,  apple  sauce,  mustard,  mashed 
potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes.  Apple  pie  or  canned  fruit  and 
cake. 

2^ea. — Corn  starch  blanc  mange,  with  preserves,  cake,  bread 
and  cheese. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fried  mashed  potatoes,  fried  eggs,  hominy. 
Dinner. — Cold  ham,  potatoes,  corn,  canned  or  fresh  ;  beets 
or  tomatoes,  sliced  in  vinegar.     Rice-pudding,  coffee. 
Tea. — Waffles,  bread,  ripe  or  canned  fruit,  cake. 


COOK  BOOK.  91 


TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Corn  bread,  ham  and  eggs. 

Dinner. — Roast  or  corned  beef,  potatoes,  succotash  or  cab- 
bage and  parsnips.  Apple  dumplings  with  sauce,  or  lemon 
pie. 

lea. — Bread,  crushed  wheat,  clam  or  oyster  fritters,  fruit, 
cake. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold  beef  or  hash,  boiled  or  scrambled  eggs, 
muffins. 

Dinner. — Vegetable  soup,  chicken,  apple  or  cranberry 
sauce,  baked  tomatoes  or  &^^^  plant,  potatoes.  Suet  pudding, 
with  sauce,  or  fruit,  pie  and  cheese. 

Tea. — Luncheon  cake,  bread,  cake,  fruit,  cottage  cheese. 

THUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Broiled  mackerel  or  breaded  veal,  Graham 
gems. 

Dinner. — Roast  turkey,  cranberries,  tomatoes,  onions  or 
Irish  stew,  sliced  tomatoes  or  pickled  beets.  Tapioca  pudding 
or  apple  meringue. 

Tea. — French  rolls  or  rice  muffin ;  ice-cream,  cake,  etc. 

FKIDAY. 

Breakfast. — Codfish  balls  or  fried  oysters,  potatoes,  corn- 
meal  muffins. 

Dinner. — Soup,  baked  or  boiled  fresh  fish,  lettuce  salad, 
mashed  potatoes,  asparagus  or  gieen  peas.  Baked  corn-meal 
or  cottage  pudding,  coffee. 

Tea. — Cold  boiled  tongue  or  salmon,  biscuits,  floating  is- 
land, cake. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. — Griddle  cakes  or  hominy  balls,  frizzled  eggs 
with  ham  or  dried  beef,  mutton  chops. 

Dinner. — Bean  or  vermicelli  soup,  roast  mutton  or  veal, 
asparagus  or  spinach,  potatoes,  onions.  Queen  of  puddings  or 
rhubarb  pie. 

Tea. — Croquettes,  fried  tomatoes,  raised  biscuits,  fruit, 
cake.  Mrs.  W.  R. 


92  DUTCH  (reformed) 


Some  of  the  first  necessities  of  the  sick  are  quiet,  fresh  air 
and  cleanliness  ;  the  next  is  proper  food,  properly  cooked  and 
given  at  the  right  time.  Keep  plenty  of  fresh  air  in  the  sick- 
room ;  keep  it  clean  and  quiet.  Wash  the  patient  every  day; 
if  there  is  fever  use  a  little  soda  in  the  water,  only  washing  a 
small  part  of  the  body  at  a  time  and  keeping  the  rest  covered. 
Use  a  sponge  and  a  soft  towel,  keeping  both  sponge  and  tow- 
els perfectly  clean  and  fresh.  Do  not  lohisper  nor  walk  on 
tip-toe  in  a  sick-room.  If  you  have  anything  to  say  that  you 
do  not  wish  the  patient  to  hear,  leave  the  room.  Do  not  cook 
much  of  anything.  A  well  person  tires  of  one  dish  soon,  and 
a  sick  person  is  much  more  liable  to  do  so.  Do  not  keep  a 
patient  waiting  for  his  food. 

BEEF  TEA. 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  lean  beef  into  very  small  pieces — do 
not  have  a  grain  of  fat  on  it — and  put  into  a  wide-necked  bot- 
tle or  fruit  jar;  put  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  cork  tight. 
Set  this  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  and  place  on  the  fire,  where 
it  will  come  to  a  boiling  point,  but  not  boil ;  keep  it  at  this 
temperature  for  two  hours  ;  then  strain  and  season  with  salt. 
This  mode  of  making  beef  tea  concentrates  the  nourishment 
more  than  any  other. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 
[Furnished  by  a  Physician.'\ 
Take  a  piece   of  beef  cut  from   the  round  ;  take  off  every 
particle  of  fat,  then  cut  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square  and 


COOK  BOOK.  93 


put  into  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  to  tlie  pound. 
After  standing  a  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  set  it  on 
the  fire  and  boil  it  slowly  several  hours.  If  the  water  boils 
away  add  more  cold  water,  so  there  will  be  a  pint  of  tea  for 
every  pound  of  beef.  Strain  it,  add  salt,  and  black  pepper 
also,  if  the  case  permits. 

BEEF  JUICE. 
Take  a  choice  steak,  remove  the  fat,  put  on  the  broiler  and 
heat   through  ;  then  press  out  the  juice  and  add  a  little  salt. 
This  can  be  fed  with  a  spoon  to  one  that  is  too  weak  to  raise 
the  head  or  care  to  eat,  and  it  is  very  nourishing. 

Miss  E.  S. 

CHICKEN  PANADA. 
Boil  a  young  chicken  half  an  hour  in  a  quart  of  water  ;  then 
remove  the  skin ,  cut  off  the  white  meat  and  when  cold,  put  it 
into  a  mortar  with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  water  in  which  it 
was  boiled,  and  pound  it  to  a  paste.  Season  it  with  salt  and 
a  very  little  nutmeg  ;  add  a  little  more  of  the  water  and  boil 
it  up  three  or  four  minutes.  It  should  be  of  such  a  consist- 
ency that  it  can  be  drank,  though  rather  thick.  The  bones 
which  remain  may  be  returned  to  the  water  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  and,  with  the  addition  of  rice,  a  good 
broth  be  made  of  it. 

BAKED  SQUASH.— Fob  Dyspeptics. 

Take  a  Boston  squash,  clean,  cut  in  two  and  remove  the 
seeds  ;  then,  putting  the  halves  together  and  making  a  small 
opening  in  the  stem-end,  place  upright  in  a  tin  dish  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  scrape  from  the  rind  and 
serve. 

Baked  potatoes  and  parsnips  are  good.  Miss  E.  S. 

CORN  TEA. 
Brown  and  pound  in  a  mortar  one  cup  of  sweet  dry  corn  ; 
pour  on  this  two  cups  of  boiling  water  and  steep  fifteen  min- 
utes.    This  is  very  light  and  nutritious  and  can  be  taken  when 
the  patient  is  very  weak. 


94  DUTCH  (refoemed) 


CREAM  TOAST. 

Let  half  a  cup  of  cream  come  to  a  boil  and  season  with  salt. 
Have  two  slices  of  bread  toasted  a  nice  brown  ;  dip  them  in  the 
cream  and  dish,  pouring  the  remaining  cream  over  them. 
Serve  immediately. 

RICE  COFFEE. 

Brown  rice  as  you  would  the  coffee  bean  and  then  grind  in 
a  mill  or  mortar  ;  take  half  a  cup  of  the  powder,  pour  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  on  it  and  let  it  stand  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  strain;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  and  season  with  boiled 
milk.  Drink  of  this  freely.  This  is  particularly  nice  for 
children. 

APPLE  TEA. 

Roast  sour  apples  and  pour  boiling  water  upon  them.  Let 
them  stand  till  the  water  is  cold.     It  is  a  refreshing  drink. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 
Take  a  large  crust  of  bread,  brown  or  Graham;  dry  it  in 
the  toaster  and  at  last  almost  burn  both  sides ;  lay  it  in  a 
saucepan  and  pour  boiling  water  on  it ;  boil  it  up  a  minute  or 
two  and  then  strain  off  the  coffee  ;  return  it  to  the  saucepan 
with  a  little  milk  or  cream  and  boil  it  up  again.  It  should 
be  made  strong  enough  to  look  like  real  coffee,  of  which  it  is 
a  very  good  imitation  when  well  made. 

A  GOOD  DRINK  FOR  THE  LUNGS. 

Wash  clean  a  few  pieces  of  Irish  moss  ;  put  it  in  a  pitcher 
and  pour  over  it  two  cups  of  boiling  water.  Set  where  it  will 
keep  at  the  boiling-point,  but  not  boil,  for  two  hours.  Strain, 
and  squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
If  the  patient  cannot  take  lemon,  flavor  with  vanilla,  wine,  or 
nutmeg. 

CURE  FOR  HOARSENESS. 

Bake  a  lemon  or  sour  orange  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  then  open  it  at  one  end  and  dig  out  the  pulp  ; 
sweeten  this  with  sugar  and  eat.  This  will  cure  hoarseness 
and  remove  pressure  from  the  lungs.  Mrs.  W.  R. 


COOK  BOOK.  95 


ARROWROOT. 

The  best  kinds  of  arrowroot  are  the  Jamaica  and  Bermuda. 
Wet  a  large  teaspoonful  in  a  little  cold  water,  with  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  pour  on  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  it  very  fast ;  then  set  it  where  it  will  just  boil  up  for 
one  minute  ;  sweeten  it,  and  add  milk,  if  it  is  allowed.  For 
a  drink,  make  it  very  thin  and  put  in  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

SIMPLE  WINE  WHEY. 
Take  equal  quantities  of  wine,  water  and  milk  ;  warm  the 
water  and  milk,  then  add  the  wine  and  sweeten. 

WINE  WHEY. 
One  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  two  wineglasses  of  wine.     Boil 
them  one   minute,  stirring  constantly ;   take   out   the   curd, 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  Quinlak. 

BARLEY  WATER. 
Two  ounces  of  pearl  barley  ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  ; 
boil  to  one-half  the  qunntity  and  strain,     A  little  lemon  juice 
and  sugar  may  be  added.     To  be  freely  taken  in  febrile  dis- 
orders. Mrs.  Wm.  Roome. 

EGG  TEA  AND  COFFEE. 
Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar  and  put  it 
to  a  teacup  of  cold  tea  or  coffee  ;  add  half  a  teacup  of  water, 
cold  in  summer  and  boiling  in  winter,  and  as  much  cream  ; 
then  whip  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  it  in. 

SLIPPERY  ELM  TEA. 
Take  an  ounce  of  the  sliced  bark,  or  a  large  tablespoon ful 
of  the  flour  of  the  bark,  wet  with  cold  water  ;  pour  on  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  awhile  and  then  strain.  This  may 
be  used  freely  in  fevers,  influenza,  coughs,  inflammation  of  the 
lungs,  etc.  To  make  it  more  nutritious,  increase  the  quantity 
of  bark  ;  add  sugar  and  flavor  as  desired. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 
One  cupful  of  tapioca  ;  wash  it  thoroughly  and  soak  in 
water  from  six.  to  ten  hours  ;  then  simmer  it  in  the  same 


96  DtJTCH  (reformed) 


water  in  which  it  has  been  soaked,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  until 
it  becomes  transparent ;  then  add  lemon  juice,  loaf  sugar  and 
wine  to  flavor  it.  Let  this  all  simmer  together,  and  pour  into 
glasses  to  cool.  Mrs.  W.  Roome, 

CURE  FOR  A  COLD. 
Take  one  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  and  a  quarter  ounce  of  oil 
of  tar  ;  put  in  a  bottle  together  and  mix  well  ;  put  ten  cents 
worth  of  hoarhound  to  one  pint  of  water,  and  boil  down  to 
half  a  pint.  Mix  all  together,  and  sweeten  with  half  a  pound 
of  strained  honey.  Take  one  tablespoonful  thi-ee  or  four 
times  a  day.  Mrs.  Austin  Dorbmus. 

COUGH  SYRUP. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  tar,  ten  cents  worth  of  stick  liquo- 
rice, two  quarts  of  water  ;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  sti'ain,  add 
one  pound  of  dark  brown  sugar.  Boil  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Dose,  half  a  teaspoonful  night  and  morning. 

Miss  M.  F.  V. 
EXCELLENT   SYRUP. 

Ten  cents  worth  each  of  senna  and  manna,  of  liquorice 
root  and  of  anise  seed  ;  put  on  three  quarts  of  water,  boil 
down  to  two  quarts,  strain  and  add  one  quart  of  N.  O. 
molasses.     Boil  until  a  nice  syrup.  Miss  E.  D. 

BLACKBERRY   BRANDY. 
Eight  quarts  of  water  and  four  quarts  of  blackberry  juice, 
boiled  togetlier  ;  then  add  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  half  a 
pint  of  brandy. 

ELDERBERRY   OR   CURRANT   WINE. 
Two  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  juice,  three  pounds  of 
sugar ;  put  in  a  keg  or  jug,  let  it  stand  two  weeks  to  ferment, 
strain  and  bottle  for  use. 

LEMON   BRANDY. 
Put  the  yellow  rind  of  two  fine  fresh  lemons  into  a  bottle 
of  brandy,  and  after  two  days  strain  it ;  boil  two  ounces  of 
loaf   sugar  in  a  teacup  of  water  to  a  nice  syrup,  let  it  become 
cold,  then  mix  it  with  the  brandy.  Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 


COOK  BOOK.  07 


Kl®^E»!&Alfl2#WP® 


TO  TAKE  OUT  MILDEW. 
[This  and  the  folloviing  recipe  are  furnished  by  a  chemist] 
Obtain  the  dryest  chloride  of  lime  that  can  be  bought,  and, 
for  strong  fabrics  dissolve  four  tablespoonfuls  in  half  a  pint 
of  water.  Let  the  mildewed  article  lie  fifteen  minutes  in  this 
solution  ;  then  take  it  out,  wring  it  gently  and  put  it  imme- 
diately into  weak  muriatic  acid,  one  part  of  the  acid  and  four 
parts  of  soft  water.  For  delicate  fabrics,  laces,  muslins,  etc., 
the  solution  of  lime  should  be  diluted  by  the  addition  of  three 
or  four  times  the  measure  of  water.  Let  the  article  lie  in  it 
five  minutes,  then  put  it  into  the  muriatic  acid. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  IRON-MOULD. 

Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  salts  of  tin  in  two  tablespoons  of 
water.  Dip  the  iron-mould  into  the  solution  and  let  it  remain 
five  minutes.  Then  dip  it  into  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of 
muriatic  acid  and  water.  Dip  the  mould  spots  alternately 
into  these  mixtures  or  make  the  first  one  stronger  with  the 
salts  of  tin,  and  apply  it  with  a  soft  rag  on  the  end  of  a  stick. 
Last  of  all,  rinse  the  article  very  thoroughly  in  cold  water. 

A  simpler  method  of  removing  iron-mould  succeeds  well, 
provided  it  is  recent  and  not  very  dark  :  Tie  up  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream-tartar  in  the  moulded  place,  put  it  into  cold  water 
without  soap  and  boil  it  half  an  hour.  Fruit  stains  may  be  re- 
moved in  a  similar  way. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  INK. 

Spread  the  cloth  immediately  over  a  pitcher  or  basin  and 
let  another  person  turn  boiling  water  on  the  spots.  Do  not 
put   the  article   into  the  water,  as  the  whole  would  then  be 


98  DUTCH  (reformed) 


tinged  with  the  ink.  If  the  spots  are  still  visible,  tie  up  a 
teaspoonfnl  of  cream  tartar  in  the  places,  and  proceed  as  for 
iron-monld.  If  not  convenient  to  use  boiling  water  at  once, 
put  the  stains  in  cold  water — do  not  let  them  become  dry. 
Soap  will  tend  to  make  ink  or  fruit  stains  permanent. 

TO  CLEANSE  OIL  CLOTHS. 

Wash  with  soft  flannel  and  luke-warm  water  ;  wipe  per- 
fectly dry.  Then  wring  a  clean  cloth  out  of  skimmed  milk 
and  wipe  the  oil  cloth  over,  moving  the  cloth  straight  across, 
not  in  circles  or  waves,  and  finish  with  a  clean  dry  cloth.  In 
this  way  you  can  keep  the  oil  cloth  fresh  and  bright,  and  it 
will  last  much  longer  than  if  scrubbed  with  soap  and  brush. 

W. 

TO  CLEANSE  BLACK  SILK. 

The  silk  must  be  thoroughly  brushed  and  wiped  with  a 
cloth,  then  laid  smoothly  on  a  board  or  table  and  well  sponged 
with  hot  coffee  that  has  been  strained  through  muslin.  The 
silk  must  be  sponged  on  the  side  intended  to  be  shown, 
allowed  to  become  partially  dry  and  then  ironed  on  the  wrong 
side.  Miss  A.  E.  Slingerland. 

BORAX  SOAP. 

Put  together  one  pound  of  bar  soap  cut  into  small  pieces, 
one  ounce  of  powdered  borax,  and  one  quart  of  hot  water. 
Mix  this  over  the  fire  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  When  it  is  cold, 
cut  into  cakes  and  use  like  common  hard  soap.  This  soap  is 
very  eifectual  in  cleaning  soiled  clothes.  W. 

TO  RAISE  THE  PILE  OF  VELVET. 
Cover  a  hot  smoothing  iron  with  a  wet  cloth  and  hold  the 
velvet  firmly  over  it.     The  vapor  arising  will  restore  the  pile 
of  velvet,  with  the  aid  of  a  little  shaking.       Miss  A.  E.  S. 

TO  CRYSTALLIZE  FLOWERS. 
A  quarter  pound  of  alum  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Put  in  an  earthen  vessel,  dip  the  flowers  singly  into  the  hot 
liquid,  and  hang  up  to  dry.  Miss  E.  Dullegab. 


COOK  BOOK.  99 


RHEUMATIC  LINIMENT. 
Two  ounces  of  alcohol;  two  of  spirits  turpentine;  one  of 
oil  of  hemlock;  one  of  chloroform;  half  an  ounce  of  gum  cam- 
phor.    Apply  two  or  three  times  a  day,  rubbing  in  well.     To 
be  used  only  externally.  Miss  E.  Dokemus. 


n®w®Min©ii©  BiifiiP* 


Needleavork  should  be  ironed  upon  clean  flannel,  and  be 
long  enough  under  the  iron  to  dry  it,  as  it  will  look  badly  if 
laid  away  damp.     Iron  it  on  the  wrong  side.  L.  A.  W. 

There  is  a  great  difference  in  the  quality  of  starch.  It  is 
labor  lost  to  use  a  poor  grade.  There  is  so  much  difference 
in  the  quantity  of  gluten  in  this  article  that  no  precise  meas- 
ure for  use  can  be  given.     A  little  experience  will  decide. 

Flour  and  meal  of  all  kinds  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  dry 
place. 

The  best  rice  is  large,  and  has  a  clean  fresh  look.  Old  rice 
often  has  little  black  insects  inside  the  kernels. 

The  small  white  sago  called  pearl-sago  is  the  best.  The 
large  brown  variety  has  an  earthy  taste. 

Keep  coffee  by  itself,  as  its  odor  affects  other  articles.  Keep 
tea  in  a  close  chest  or  canister.  Bread  and  cake  should  be 
kept  in  a  stone  jar  or  tin  box. 

Bar  soap  should  be  cut  into  pieces  of  convenient  size,  and 
laid  away  in  a  dry,  airy  place. 

Cranberries  will  keep  all  winter  in  a  fii'kin  of  water  in 
the  cellar,  if  the  water  be  renewed  occasionally.  Lemons  may 
be  kept  in  the  same  way. 


100  DUTCH    (reformed)    COOK   BOOK. 

For  bee  or  wasp  stings  wet  some  cut  tobacco  and  lay  it  on 
the  sting.  In  five  minutes  it  will  be  cured.  Always  keep  cut 
tobacco  in  the  house  for  such  emergencies.  It  is  invaluable 
and  sure. 

Most  people  dry  their  umbrellas  handle  upwards.  This 
concentrates  the  moisture  at  the  tip,  rusts  the  wire  and  rots 
the  cloth.  After  the  umbrella  is  drained,  it  is  better  to  in- 
vert it  and  dry  in  that  position. 

In  testing  flour,  place  a  little  in  the  palm  of  the  hand  and 
rub  gently  with  the  finger;  if  the  flour  smooths  down,  feeling 
slippery,  it  is  inferior,  and  will  never  make  good  bread;  if  it 
rubs  rough  in  the  palm,  feeling  like  fine  sand,  and  has  an 
orange  hue,  you  may  be  confident  it  will  not  disappoint  you. 

To  prevent  discoloration  from  bruises,  apply  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  very  hot  water,  renewing  it  frequently  until  the  pain 
ceases.  Miss  M.  F.  V. 

A  FREQUENT  application  of  lime-water  is  an  excellent 
remedy  for  burns  and  also  for  ivy  poison. 

Sugar  burned  while  cabbage  is  cooking  will  kill  the  odor 
and  keep  your  dwelling  sweet.  Miss  A.  E.  G. 


HOUSEHOLD  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

One  quart  of  wheat  flour one  pound. 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal one  pound  two  ounces. 

One  quart  of  butter  (soft) one  pound  one  ounce. 

One  quart  of  loaf  sugar  (broken) one  pound. 

One  quart  of  powdered  sugar one  pound  one  ounce. 

One  quart  of  brown  sugar one  pound  two  ounces. 

Ten  eggs,  average  size one  pound. 

Sixteen  tablespoonfuls one  half  pint. 


INDEX. 


SOUPS. 

PAGE 

Tomato  Soup,  No.  1 -  5 

"      No.  2 5 

Chicken  Soup 6 

Vermicelli   Soup 6 

Green  Pea   Soup 6 

Noodles  for  Soup 6 

Clam  Soup 7 

Oyster  Stew 7 

Bean  Soup.. 7 

Vegetable  Soup 7 

Beef  Soup 8 

FISH. 

Baked  Blue  Fish 8 

Creamed  Salmon 9 

Boiled  Bass 9 

Sauce  for  Fish 9 

Codfish  Balls 9 

"        Custard 9 

Stewed. 10 

Fish  Fritters 10 

Fried  Oysters 10 

Oyster  Patties 10 

Scalloped  Oysters. 10 

Pickled  Oysters 11 

Clam  Chowder. 11 

"    Fritters 11 

MEATS. 

Roast  Lamb 12 

Boiled     "      12 

Alamode  Beef 13 


PAGE 

Curried  Beef 13 

Beefsteak  and  Onions 13 

Beefsteak  and  Oyster  Pie 13 

Crust  for  Meat  Pie 13 

Cold  Meat  Pie 14 

Fricandean 14 

Irish  Stew 14 

Hash  with  Toast 14 

Sugar-cured  Hams 15 

To  Salt  Ham 15 

To  Season  Sausage 15 

RolichesNo.  1 15 

"       No.  2 15 

Souce 15 

To  Shave  Beef 15 

Scalloped  "   16 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Roast  Turkey 16 

Chicken 17 

Aunt  Gitty's  Pot-pie 17 

Roast  Wild  Duck 17 

"      Quail 18 

Chicken  Croquettes 18 

Dumplings 18 

To  Dish  Meat  and  Poultry 18 

SAUCES,  GBAVIES,  ETC, 

Drawn  Butter 19 

Egg  Sauce 19 

Oyster  Sauce 19 

Celery       "      20 

Mint         "      20 


11 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Tomato  Sauce 20 

Parsley    "      20 

Chili         "      20 

Cranberry  Sauce 20 

Roast  Meat  Gravy 21 

"    Poultry  Gravy 21 

Baked  Dressing 21 

To  Brown  Flour 21 


CATSUP  AND  PICKLES. 

Tomato  Catsup,  No.  1 

No.  3 

Chow-chow,  No.  1. 
"       No.  2- 


22 
22 
22 
22 

"       23 

Butter.- 23 

Tomatoes  Pickled 23 

Pickled  Onions 23 

Blackberries  Pickled 24 

Spiced  Grapes. 24 

Cucumber  Pickles 24 

Pepper  Hash 25 

Pickled  Fruit 25 

French  Pickles 25 

Pickled  Nasturtiums 25 

Walnuts 26 

SALADS. 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  1 26 

"     No.  2 26 

Lobster      "       27 

Chicken  or  Lobster  Salad 27 

Dutch  Sauce  for  Lettuce 27 

Cabbage  Salad 27 

Potato  "     28 

VEGETABLES. 

Time-table  for  Cooking 28 

Potato  Puff 39 

Saratoga  Potatoes 29 

Green  Beans,  Steamed 29 

Asparagus,  Stewed 29 


PAGE 

Onions,  Scalloped 30 

Macaroni,  Boiled 30 

Corn  Fritters. 30 

Aunty's  Corn  Cakes 30 

Parsnip  Oysters 30 

Macaroni  with  Cheese 30 

Artificial  Oysters 31 

Green  Corn  Patties 31 

Macaroni  Pudding 31 

Browned  Tomatoes. 31 

Vegetables  and  Sauces  for  dif- 

erent  Meats 31 

EGGS. 

Egg  on  Toast 33 

Poached  Eggs 33 

Fricasseed  " 33 

Salad  "  33 

Omelette,  No.  1 34 

No.  2 34 

No.  3...     34 

BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 

Yeast,  No.  1 35 

"      No.  2 35 

Potato  Yeast 35 

Pop         "    36 

Pure  Baking  Powder 36 

Bread,  No.  1 36 

No.  2. 36 

Rye    Bread... 37 

Graham  "  37 

Brown     "  37 

Union      " 37 

Biscuit 37 

Raised  Biscuit,  No.  1 37 

No.  2 38 

Tea  Biscuits,  No.  1 , 38 

No.  3 38 

Graham  Biscuits 38 

Dutch  Dried  Biscuits. 39 

Old-Fashioned  Dried  Biscuits.  39 


INDEX. 


in 


PAGE 

Rolls 39 

Breakfast  Rolls 39 

Delicious      "    40 

Butter  "     40 

Rusk,  No.  1 40 

"     No.  2 40 

Sweet  Rusks 40 

Breakfast" 40 

Corn  Bread,  No.  1 41 

"      No.  3 41 

"      No.  3 41 

"      No.  4 41 

"      No.  5. 41 

Mississippi  Corn  Bread 41 

Johnny  Cake 41 

"    No.  2 41 

WAFFLES,   MUFFINS,    ETC. 

Waffles,  No.  1 42 

No.  2 42 

No.  3 42 

Soft  Waffles 42 

Muffins,  No.  1 42 

"      No.2 42 

Corn  Muffins,  No.  1 43 

No.  2... 43 

No.  3 43 

Graham  "        No.  1 43 

'     "      "        No.  2 43 

Rice  Muffins 44 

Graham  Gems,  No.  1. 44 

"       No.  2 44 

Drop  Short-cake 44 

Strawberry  Short-cake 44 

Soft  "        44 

Strawberry  or  Peach  Short-cake  45 

Strawberry  Short-cake 45 

Corn  Griddle  Cakes 45 

Nice        "  "     4G 

GermanEgg        "     46 

Whigs 46 

Tea  Cake 46 


PAGE 

Puffet,  No.  1 46 

Aunt  Jane's  Puffet 46 

Pufifet,No.  2 47 

"     No.  3 47 

"     No.  4 47 

Sally  Lunn 47 

PIES. 

Pie  Crust 48 

Puff  Paste 48 

Lemon  Pie,  No.  1 48 

"    No,  2 49 

"    No.  3 49 

"    No.  4 49 

"     Meringue  Pie 49 

Frosted  Lemon  Pie 50 

Cocoanut  Pie,  No.  1 50 

"    No.  2 50 

Orange        "    50 

Cun-ant       " 50 

Cream         "    50 

Pumpkin     "    51 

Mince  for  Pies 51 

Mock  Mince  Pies 51 

Apple  Meringue  Pie 51 

Sweet  Apple  " 51 

PrunePie 53 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

AuntEllie's  Plum  Pudding...  53 

Yankee  "  "       53 

Orange  Pudding 53 

Lemon  Meringue  Pudding 53 

Fuller  Pudding 54 

Brown  Betty 54 

DutchPuffs 54 

Lowell  Pudding 54 

Fruit-Bread  Pudding 54 

Flour  Pudding 55 

Indian        "     55 

Quick  Puff  Pudding 55 

Cottage  "    No.  1 55 


IV 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Cottage  Pudding  No.  2 55 

Suet  " 55 

Dandy  "        55 

Apple  Butter 56 

Chocolate  "    56 

Peach        "    56 

Shanghi  Pudding 56 

Puffs 56 

Queen  of  Pudding 57 

Berry  Pudding 57 

Snow         "     57 

Tapioca     "    57 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding 58 

Bird's  Nest  "    58 

Dutch  Raised  Dumplings 58 

pop-Overs 58 

Cottage  Pudding  Sauce 59 


Brown  Betty 
Snow  Pudding 
Puff 

Lemon     " 
Suet 

Cold  or  Hard 
Sour  Cream 
Apple  Pudding 


59 
59 
59 
59 
59 
59 
60 
60 


FBITTER8, 

Fritters,  No.  1 61 

No.  2 61 

Fi-uit  Fritters 61 

Apple       "    No.  1 61 

"    No.  2 61 

Peach       "    62 

Strawbeiry 62 

Trifles 62 

CAKE. 

Directions. 

Buhling,  No.  1 63 

No.  2 63 

"       No.  3 64 

Deleyan  Lemon  Jelly  Cake. ...  64 


PAGE 

Apepl  Koek,  No.  1 64 

"      No.  2 64 

Fruit  Cake,  No.  1 65 

"      No.  2 65 

"      No.  3 65 

"      No.  4 65 

"      No.  5 66 

Plain  Fruit  Cake 66 

Pound  Cake,  No.  1 66 

"       No.  2 06 

Half-way  Pound  Cake 66 

Cottage  Pound  Cake 67 

Sponge  Cake 67 

Berwick  Sponge  Cake 67 

Citron  Cake 67 

Feather  Cake 67 

Marbled  Cake 67 

Delicate  Cake 68 

One-two-three-four  Cake 68 

Angel  Cake 68 

Watermelon  Cake 68 

Pork  Cake 69 

Spice  Cake 69 

Methodist  Cake 09 

Nothing  Cake 69 

Sister  Maggie's  Cake 69 

Gold  Cake 70 

Silver  Cake 70 

Luncheon  Cake — 70. 

Coffee  Cake 70 

White  Mountain  Cake 70 

Austin  Cake 71 

Hickory-nut  Cake 71 

Snow-flake  Cake 71 

LAYER-CAKE. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake 71 

Cream  Cake 71 

Cocoanut  Jelly  Cake  No.  1 —  72 
"     No.  2...  72 

Ice  Cream  Cake 72 

Ribbon  Cake 72 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Orange  Cake..- 73 

CararaelCake - 73 

Chocolate  Cake,  No.  1 73 

"      No.  2 74 

Cream  Cake 74 

Apple  Jelly  Cake 74 

Rochester  Jelly  Cake 74 

Pine-apple  Cake 75 

Neapolitan  Cake 75 

Jelly  Cake 75 

ICINGS. 

For  Ice  Cream  Cake 76 

Soft  Icing  or  Frosting 76 

"    Chocolate  Icing 76 

Chocolate  Caramel  Icing 76 

SMALL  CAKES. 

Cheap  Pound  Cake 76 

Sugar  Kisses .-.  76 

Bachelor  Buttons 77 

Cream  Puffs 77 

Cocoanut  Drops 77 

Puffs 78 

HardWaffles 78 

Grandma's  Crullers 78 

Cmller's,  No.  1 78 

No.  2 78 

Extra  Crullers 78 

Gilmor's  Crullers 78 

French  Jumbles 79 

Jumbles 79 

Cookies,  No.  1 79 

No.2..-. 79 

Doughnuts,  No.  1 79 

No.  2 79 

New  Year's  Cakes 80 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

Ginger  Snaps,  No.  1 80 

"       No.  2 80 

"         "       No.  3 80 


P.A.GK 

Ginger  Cookies 80 

Crackers 80 

Maggie's  Molasses  Cake 81 

Molasses  Cake - 81 

Soft  Gingerbread,  No.  1 81 

No.  2 81 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake,  No.  1 .  - .  81 
No.2...  81 

"      Chocolate  Cake 82 

Soft  Molasses  Cake 82 

CUSTARDS,    CREAMS,   ETC. 

Tapioca  Custard 83 

Lemon        "        ^^ 

Chocolate   "        83 

"         Blanc  Mange 83 

Cornstarch        "  84 

Floating  Island - 84 

Charlotte  Russe 84 

Prepared  Rice -- —  84 

Apple  Snow -  85 

Spanish  Cream 85 

Coffee  Custard 85 

Velvet  Cream 85 

Ice  "      86 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 86 

Lemon  Ice 86 

Wine  Jelly 86 

Lemon  "     86 

RIPE  AND  STEWED  FRUITS. 

Ambrosia 87 

Frosted  Peaches 87 

Baked  Apples.. 88 

Rhubarb  Sauce 88 

CANNED  PRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

Canning  Pine-apples 89 

Quince  Marmalade 89 

Pine-apple     "  89 

Fruit  Jellies •-  80 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Pippin  Apple  Jelly 89 

Brandy  Peaches 89 

CANDIES. 

Cocoanut  Candy 90 

Butter  Scotch 90 

Chocolate  Caramels,  No.  1 90 

No.  3....  90 
Bill  of  Fare  for  the  Week 90 

FOOD  AND    DRINK  FOR  THE    SICK. 

Beef  Tea 93 

"     Juice 93 

Chicken  Panada 93 

Baked  Squash 93 

Corn  Tea 93 

Cream  Toast 94 

Rice  Coffee 94 

Apple  Tea 94 

Crust  Coffee 94 

Drink  for  the  Lungs 94 

€ure  for  Hoarseness.. 94 

Arrowroot 95 

Wine  "Whey,  No.  1 95 


PAGE 

Wine  Whey,  No.  2 95 

Barley  Water 95 

Egg,  Tea  and  Coffee 95 

Slippery  Elm  Tea 95 

Tapioca  Jelly 95 

Cure  for  a  Cold 96 

Cough  Syrup,  No.  1 96 

No.  3 96 

Blackberry  Brandy 96 

Currant  Wine 96 

Lemon  Brandy 96 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

To  take  out  Mildew 97 

"       Iron  Mould 97 

Ink 97 

"  Cleanse  Oil  Cloths 98 

Black  Silk 98 

Borax  Soap 98 

To  Renew  Velvet 98 

"  Crystallize  Flowers 98 

Rheumatic  Liniment 99 

Household  Hints 99-100 


ADVERTISEMENTS.  Vll 


'NO  SENTIMENT  IN  BUSINESS! 


Q\0?  "Well,  now,  we  think  differently,  and  we  are  quite 
^^  sure  that  we  express  the  views  of  all  honorable  people,, 
that  Business  without  Sentiment  is  desperate,  heathenish, 
and  in  the  long  run  can  only  issue  in  Ruin  and  Shame. 

There  is  the  Sentiment  of  Honor,  for  instance.  Even 
thieves  have  this  Sentiment,  as  the  phrase  goes  :  "  Honor 
among  thieves."  And  yet  there  are  furniture  and  carpet 
houses,  right  here  in  Paterson,  that  will  have  nothing  to  do 
with  Sentiment. 

There  is  the  Sentiment  of  Commercial  Courtesy,  the 
Sentiment  of  Local  Pride,  the  Sentiment  of  Confidence, 
all  of  which  most  business  men  count  upon  for  success. 

We  offer  our  stock  of  Furniture,  Carpets,  Oil  Cloths, 
Bedding,  Etc.,  at  fair  prices  for  good  goods,  and  invite  all 
to  come  and  see  us  before  buying. 
We  deliver  all  goods  free  of  charge, 

W.   LOCKWOOD  &  SONS, 

292  &  294  Main  Street, 

PATERSON. 


Vlll  ADVERTISEMENTS. 


E:S'Z'.A.^XjX8ZZX1X>    X84X. 


THE  CHEAP  FANCY  GOODS  STORE. 

WILLIAM    H.    H.    STRYKER, 

No.  166  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J., 


OPPOSITE   ODD   fellows'   HALL. 


UNDERWEAR,   RIBBONS,   LACES,    CORSETS, 

Hosiery,  Gloves,  Hoopskirts,  Jewelry,  &.c- 

A     FULIi    ASSORTMENT    OF    NOTIONS. 

]MRS.    MlOHRISOISr, 

MILLINERY  AND  FANCY  GOODS, 

No.   98   MAIN   STREET, 

A  few  doors  below  Broadway,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 


MILLINERY  IN  ALL   ITS   BRANCHES. 

An  Extensive  Stock  of  MOURNING   GOODS   always   on   hand. 
Straw,  Leghorn  and  Panama  Hals  Cleaned,  Pressed  and  Altered. 

A   SUPERIOR  QUALITY   OP   KID   GLOVES. 

CHARLES    KEELER, 

DEALER  IN 

Hats    and    Caps, 

GENTS'    FURNISHING    GOODS, 

UMBRELLAS,  GLOVES,  &c., 
124  MAIN  STREET,    PATERSON,  N.  J. 

DAVID   B.   BEAM, 

Boots   and.   Shoes, 

TRUNKS,    TRAVELING    BAGS,    &c., 
144  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 

REPAIRING     IN    ALL     ITS    BRANCHES, 


ADVERTISEMBNTS.  IX 


ESTABIjISHED    in    1858. 


JAMES    INGLIS,  Jr., 


DEALER  IN 


Musical    Instruments, 

STATIONER, 

Blank  Book  Manufacturer, 

Publisher  and  Dealer  in  School  Books, 

FANCY  GOODS,  &c., 

172  MAIN  STKEET,  PATEESON,  N.  J. 

SAML.  McILROY, 

MANUFACTURER    OF 

PREPARED   FLOUR, 

AND    DEALER    IN 

FINE   GRADES 

OF 

FAMILY    FLOUR. 

69  MAIN  STREET,  PATEESON. 


ADVKETISEMENTiJ. 


DEMAREST  &  WORTENDYKE, 
FAIKEIIiir     GROCERS, 

177  &  179  Main  Street, 

PATERSON,  It.  J. 

CHINA  TEA  HOUSE, 

68    BRO^D^W"A.Y, 

PATEBSON,  xV.  J. 


MARSHALL  <&  BALL, 

ONE    PRICE 

CLOTHIERS, 

209   and   211   MAIN   STREET, 

Patorsoii,  ]V.  J. 


Practical     AVatchmaliers. 


'J 


:      K 


REPAIRING  IN  ALL  ITSBRANGHE8, 

35  Main  Street,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 


ADVERTISEMENTS.  XI 


BENJAMIN    STINSON'S   SONS, 

128  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 

Wholesale  and  Retail  dealers  ia 

Crockery,  Glassware  anil  Hoise  FirBlslinE  Mi 

The    Oldest    House, 

Ttie    X^arsest    Stoclc, 

Tl\e    TLiOAvest    Prices. 

Mm  UleDsils  of  SfaDlte,  Tin  M  Iron  Ware, 

GUNS,    PISTOLS,    POWDER,    SHOT,    ETC., 

AND   THE 

ILiarg^est  asf^ortineut  of  I''isliing-  Xackle  in  the  City. 


J.    JOHNSON    &    SONS, 

141  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 

C.     D.     VOO  R  H  I  S, 

No.  9  FAIR  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J., 

Manufacturer  of  and  dealer  in 

STOVES,  RANGES   AND   HEATERS, 

Tin  and  Slate  Roofing,  Gutters,  Leaders,  Lead  Pipe,  Pumps,  &c. 
TIN,  BRASS,  COPPER,  ENAMELED  AND  SHEET  IRON  WARE. 

rialyanlzed  Cornices,  PlnmMng,  Steal  and  Sas  Fitting  in  all  its  Brandies. 

STOVES  REPAIRED  AND  TAKEN  ON  STORAGE. 
LEADING  HOKSE  FURNISHING  HOUSE,  Established  1863, 

CHARLES     R.    HOPSON, 

Mannracmrer  of  FINE  HARNESS ! 

And  dealer  in  Saddle-^,  Bridles,  Collars, 
Wnrps,  Blankets,  Lai- Robes,  Sheets,  Dusters, 
Flt  Nets,  Eartips.  Village  Cart,  Track, 
Carriage  and  BcG(iT  Harness  made  to  order 
and  warranted.  A  Good  Assortment  of  Har- 
KEss  always  in  stock. 
Nickle  plated  Buggy  Harness  from  ^8  00  up 
Track         "  "        18  00  " 

"  Business    "  "        15  OO  " 

Truck  and  Farm  "  "       25  00  " 

Carriage  trimming  and  repairing  Harness  will    ^/, 
receive  prompt  attention. 

21  MAIX  ST..  (or.  Godwin,  Paterson,  N.  J. 


xil  ADVERTISEMEN^TS. 


NOTARIES    PUBLIC. 

ALFRED  A.  VAN    HOVENBERG 

AND 

ROBERT    E.   VAN    HOVENBERG, 

Attorneys    and   Counsellors    at  Law, 

SOLICITORS  AND  MASTERS  IN  CHANCERY, 

209  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 

Room  2,  Town  Clock  Building. 

ODD  FELLOWS'  HALL  DRUG  STORE, 
DR.   MOSS,   Proprietor. 

I*reseription!S    Carefully    Prepared. 

Trusses,  Supporters  and  Elastic  Stockings  a  Specialty. 

Orders  solicited  by  mail.  Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Postage  Stamps  received  for  goods. 
Ext.  Vanilla  and  Lemon  for  Cooking,  Perfumer}',  Triple  Extracts  Colognes  and 
Sachet  Powders  of  the  best  make.    Cash  paid  for  Beeswax  and  Hops. 

STORE— 167  MAIN  ST.,  Paterson,  X.  J. 

P.  H.  &  W.  G.  SHIELDS, 

175   MAIN    STREET, 

Pour  doors  above  Odd  Fellows' Hall,  PATERSON,  N.  J., 

DEALERS  IN 

FINE   GROCERIES,  FRUIT,  &c., 

ALSO 

OOLTON'S  SELECT  FLAVORS 

OF  THE  CHOICEST   FRUITS  AND   SPICES. 

Their  Delicious  Purity,  unequaled  Strength  and  Economy,  commend  them  to  all 
lovers  of  Choice  Flavors. 

130  J.   &   H.   HABBEN,  130 

IMPORTER?   AND   DEALERS   IN 

China,   Olass  and  Earthenware, 

HOUSE   FURNISHING  GOODS, 

CUTLERY  AND  SILVER  PLATED  WARE, 

ALSO,  BEST  QUALITY  KEROSENE  AND  MACHINE  OIL, 

130  MAIN  STREET,  PATERSON,  N.  J. 


m  -0  '^'^^ 


