CU& 


FIRST   LESSONS 


IN   THE 


PRINCIPLES    OF    COOKING. 


FIRST    LESSONS 

IN    THE    PRINCIPLES 


OF 


COOKING. 


IN      THREE       PARTS. 


LADYABARKER, 

Author  of  "  Stories  About"  "A  Christmas  CakeJ 


OF  THE 

UJNIVERSITT 


MACMILLAN    AND    CO. 

1886. 


RICHARD  CLAY  AND  SONS, 

BRBAD  STREET  HILL,  LONDON,  E.G. 

And  at  Bungay,  Suffolk* 


CONTENTS. 


PART  I. 


PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY       ...........      .       ,      .         3 


I. 

THE  CHEMICAL  COMPOSITION  OF  OUR  FOOD        .      .      .      .       IO 

LESSON  II. 

BREAD  AND   BEEF        .............       l8 

LESSON  III. 

FISH    ..................      25 

LESSON   IV. 

VEGETABLES       .........       ......       29 


PART     II. 

LESSON  V. 

THE  PREPARATIONS  OF  FLOUR  USED  AS  FOOD  ....   38 


CONTENTS. 


LESSON   VI. 

PAGE 

POTATOES  AND  OTHER  VEGETABLES 44 

LESSON   VII. 

MODES  OF   PREPARING  BROTH  OR   SOUP   FROM    BEEF   .      .       5 1 

LESSON   VIII. 

FUEL  AND  FIRE 58 


PART    III. 

LESSON   IX. 

BOILING  AND  STEWING 73 

LESSON  X. 

BAKING,    ROASTING,   AND   FRYING 79 

LESSON  XL 

BACON 86 

LESSON  XII. 

THE   GIST   OF  THE   WHOLE   MATTER  ,      88 


PART    I. 

THE  CHEMICAL  COMPOSITION,  AND  THE  EFFECT 
UPON  THE  HUMAN  BODY  OF  THE  VARIOUS 
SUBSTANCES  COMMONLY  EMPLOYED  AS 
FOOD. 


FIRST     LESSONS 


PRINCIPLES    OF    COOKING 
PART  I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

THE  day  has  come  in  English  social  history  when  it 
is  absolutely  the  bounden  duty  of  every  person  at 
the  head  of  a  household — whether  that  household  be 
large  or  small,  rich  or  poor — to  see  that  no  waste  is 
permitted  in  the  preparation  of  food  for  the  use  of 
the  family  under  his  or  her  care.  I  am  quite  aware 
that  such  waste  cannot  be  cured  by  theories,  and 
that  nothing  except  a  practical  acquaintance  with  the 
details  of  household  management,  supplemented  by 
a  conviction  of  the  necessity  of  economy,  can  be 
expected  to  remedy  the  evil.  At  the  same  time,  it  is 
possible  that  ignorance  of  the  fundamental  principles 
of  the  chemicajl_  jcornposjtion  and  of  the  relative 
nutritive  value  of  the  various  sorts  of  food  within  our 

a  3 


4  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  i. 

4o 

reach,  added  co  the  widespread  ignorance  of  the  most 
simple  and  wholesome  modes  of  preparing  such  food, 
may  be  at  the  root  of  much  of  that  waste. 

Many  excellent  works  have  been  written  on  house- 
hold management  and  expenditure  on  both  a  large 
and  a  small  scale,  but  I  am  not  aware  of  any  book 
so  small  as  this,  which  exactly  supplies  the  need  I 
speak  of,  or  which,  laying  other  details  aside,  deals 
only  with  the  subject  of  the  preparation  of  food,  and 
yet  is  not  exactly  a  Cookery  Book. 

I  shall  attempt  in  this  part  to  give  in  a  condensed 
form  the  reasons  why  one  sort  of  food  is  better  than 
another,  more  nutritious,  and  therefore  cheaper,  and 
also  why  certain  methods  of  preparing  that  food  will 
cause  it  to  be  more  easily  digested,  and  render  it 
more  wholesome.  It  must  be  stated  in  this,  the  very 
beginning,  that  these  "  reasons  why "  are  not  the 
result  of  any  crude  theories  of  my  own,  but  are  drawn 
from  a  careful  study  of  works  upon  the  subject  by 
practical  chemists.  Whenever  the  question  is  a  vexed 
one,  or  learned  doctors  have  agreed  to  differ  upon  it, 
I  omit  it  altogether,  confining  myself  entirely  to  the 
discussion  of  subjects  upon  which  there  is  no  doubt, 
and  stating  the  results  of  years  of  patient  study  and  in- 
cessant experiments  as  briefly  and  simply  as  I  possibly 
can.  Although  it  is  perhaps  somewhat  alarming  to 
come  across  scientific  expressions  in  so  unpretending 
a  little  book  as  this,  still  I  must  entreat  my  readers  not 
to  be  scared  away  by  words  which  are  unfamiliar  to 
them ;  and  I  may  truthfully  add  my  own  experience 


INTRO.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  5 

to  bear  out  the  common  assertion  tlu  the  best  and 
highest  method  of  learning  any  subject  will  always 
prove  the  easiest  in  the  long  run. 

Instead  of  helplessly  wringing  our  hands  and  cry- 
ing out  about  the  high  price  of  fuel  and  food,  let  us 
accept  the  present  state  of  things  as  the  inevitable 
and  natural  result  of  past  years  of  extravagance  and 
carelessness  on  our  own  part.  The  sooner  we  make 
up  our  minds  that  what  we  regretfully  speak  of  as  the 
"  good  old  times "  with  their  good  old  prices  will 
.never  come  again,  the  sooner  we  shall  cease  to  look 
fondly  back  on  a  cheaper  past,  and  brace  ourselves 
up  helpfully  and  bravely  to  face  the  increased  cost 
of  the  necessaries  of  life.  It  is  much  more  sensible 
to  do  this,  instead  of  going  on  in  our  old  ignorant 
way,  buoying  ourselves  up  with  hopes  of  a  shadowy 
millennium  of  butchers'  meat,  of  a  future  day  when 
carcases  of  Australian  or  South  American  sheep  and 
oxen  shall  dangle  in  English  shops.  Believe  me, 
that  time  is  a  long  way  off,  and  even  when  it 
does  come  there  will  be  many  more  thousands 
of  hungry  mouths  to  be  filled,  so  that  the  supply 
will  only  keep  pace  —  even  then  rather  lagging 
behind,  as  it  does  now — with  the  demand  of  the 
coming  years.  If  fuel  and  food  cost  nearly  twice  as 
much  at  present  as  they  did  ten  years  ago,  then  surely 
it  becomes  our  imperative  duty  to  see  how  we  can, 
each  of  us,  according  to  our  possibilities,  make  the 
material  for  warmth  and  cooking  go  twice  as  far  as 
they  have  done  hitherto.  Nor  in  making  such  an 


FIRST  LESSON'S  IN  THE  [PART  i. 


attempt  are  we  blindly  groping  in  the  dark,  feeling 
our  way  step  by  step  along  the  unaccustomed  paths 
of  scientific  experiment.  It  has  all  been  done  for  us 
whilst  we  were  stupidly  spending  our  capital,  by  men 
whose  clear  sight  could  discern  the  dark  days  ahead ; 
men  who  have,  many  of  them,  gone  to  their  rest, 
before  the  dawn  of  these  dark  days,  but  who  have  left 
behind  them  clear  instructions  how  to  make  the  most 
of  certain  necessary  substances  whose  increasing  value 
they  foresaw  twenty  or  thirty  years  ago.  If,  therefore, 
we  have  the  common  sense  to  avail  ourselves  of  the 
results  of  these  researches  and  experiments,  which 
are  still  carried  on  day  after  day  by  worthy  successors 
of  the  great  practical  chemists  I  speak  of,  it  is  quite 
possible  we  may  so  utilize  their  information  as  to 
make  our  available  material  go  a  great  deal  further. 
At  present  we  all  confess  that  the  balance  is  uncom- 
fortably adjusted,  and  a  great  many  people  are  throw- 
ing a  great  many  remedies  into  the  uneven  scales. 
Let  us  try  a  few  grains  of  science,  and  a  few  more 
of  common  sense,  and  see  what  the  practical  result 
will  be. 

Before  we  proceed  to  do  this,  however,  I  should 
like  to  endeavour  to  disabuse  my  readers'  minds  of 
the  idea  that  economy  and  stinginess  are  synonymous 
terms.  In  point  of  fact  they  are  precisely  opposite. 
An  individual  or  a  household  habitually  practising 
economy  has  a  far  wider  margin  for  charity  and 
hospitality  than  the  shiftless  people  who  never  can 
keep  a  penny  in  their  purses  or  a  meal  'n  their  cup- 


INTRO.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  7 

boards  through  sheer  "  waste-riff,"  as  the  north- 
country  people  call  it.  "  Take  care  of  the  scraps, 
and  the  joints  will  take  care  of  themselves/'  would 
be  a  very  good  motto  in  nine-tenths  of  our  middle- 
class  households,  and  the  practical  result  of  such  a 
theory  should  be  better  food  and  more  of  it. 

For  my  own  part  I  have  little  hope  of  any  real 
progress  being  made  in  the  right  direction  until  it 
shall  have  become  once  more  the  custom  for  ladies  to 
do  as  their  grandmothers  did  before  them,  and  make 
it  their  business  to  acquaint  themselves  thoroughly 
with  the  principles  and  details  of  household  manage- 
ment. In  many  cases  there  may  be  no  actual  pecu- 
niary necessity  for  such  supervision,  but  it  would  at 
all  events  serve  the  good  purpose  of  setting  an 
example,  besides  teaching  servants  the  real  good  and 
beauty  of  a  wise  economy,  a  liberal  thrift.  So  long 
as  the  world  lasts,  so  long  will  there  be  a  Mrs. 
Grundy ;  but  if  Mrs.  Grundy  can  only  be  induced  to 
go  down  into  her  kitchen  and  insist  on  a  good  use 
being  made  of  sundry  scraps  and  bones,  and  odds 
and  ends  which  at  present  may  be  said  to  benefit  no 
one,  then  will  she  deserve  a  statue  in  the  market- 
place. If  Mrs.  A.,  whose  husband's  income  may  be 
one  or  two  thousand  a  year,  is  able  and  capable  to 
show  a  new  cook  how  such  and  such  things  should 
be  done  so  as  to  combine  economy  with  palatableness, 
then  will  Mrs.  B.,  whose  income  is  barely  a  quarter  of 
that  sum,  not  consider  it  beneath  her  dignity  to  do  so. 
If  this  movement  is  to  do  any  good,  it  will  have  to 


8  F1KST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  i. 

be  inaugurated  by  people  whose  social  and  pecuniary 
position  makes  them,  to  a  certain  extent,  unaffected 
by  the  pressure  which  weighs  so  heavily  on  their 
poorer  neighbours.  And  I  am  going  to  attempt,  so  to 
speak,  fo  kill  two  birds  with  one  stone ;  to  persuade 
even  rich  people  to  insist  on  a  due  economy  in  the 
consumption  of  the  necessaries  of  life,  and  to  assure 
poor  people  that  it  is  possible  to  make  a  good  deal 
more  of  the  scanty  materials  within  their  reach  than 
they  do  at  present.  When  I  speak  of  inducing  rich 
people  to  be  economical,  I  have  no  culinary  Utopia 
in  my  mind's  eye,  when  millionaires  will  prefer  to 
dine  off  cold  mutton  or  to  lunch  on  bone  broth. 
What  I  mean  is,  that  rich  people  can  surely  be  made 
to  understand  that  it  is  now-a-days  absolutely  a 
greater  good  to  the  commonwealth  if  their  house- 
holds are  so  managed  that  little  or  no  material  for 
human  food  can  be  wasted  in  them,  than  if  they 
subscribed  ever  so  liberally  to  all  the  great  charities 
of  London.  It  is  just  in  proportion  as  people's 
minds  are  enlarged  and  their  field  of  mental  vision 
extended  by  culture  and  true  refinement,  that  they 
will  be  able  to  perceive  the  importance  of  the  ques- 
tion. For  tr^at  reason  I  hope  and  expect  that  the 
warmest  supporters  of  the  attempt  now  being  made 
by  the  National  School  of  Cookery  to  teach  the  mass 
of  the  English  people  how  to  make  the  most  of  the 
material  around  them,  will  be  found  in  the  higher 
ranks  of  our  society,  and  that  from  them  it  will 
spread  downwards  until  it  reaches  the  cottage  where 


INTRO.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING. 


the  labouring  man  is  fed  from  year's  end  to  year's 
end  on  monotonous  and  often  unwholesome  food, 
as  much  from  lack  of  invention  as  from  shallowness 
of  purse. 

Before  ending  this  preliminary  lesson  I  feel  it 
incumbent  on  me  to  state  most  emphatically  that  I 
do  not  wish  or  intend  to  organize  a  crusade  against 
cooks  !  In  the  course  of  nearly  twenty  years'  ex- 
perience of  that  class  of  servants,  I  can  declare  that  I 
have  found  very  little  intentional  dishonesty.  Waste, 
extravagance,  and  bad  management  I  have  met  with 
over  and  over  again,  but  these  evils  have  almost  in- 
variably arisen  from  want  of  opportunities  of  learning 
better,  and  I  can  scarcely  remember  an  instance  where 
there  has  not  been  an  effort  made  to  lay  aside  bad 
habits  and  acquire  fresh  ones.  It  is  only  too  true,  as 
dear  Tom  Hood  says,  that — 

"  Evil  is  wrought  by  want  of  thought, 
As  well  as  by  want  of  heart." 

So,  if  we  can  even  teach  our  servants  to  think  twice 
before  they  throw  things  into  the  pig-tub,  it  will  be 
taking  a  step  in  the  right  direction. 

If  a  cook  and  her  mistress  are  at  daggers  drawn, 
each  regarding  the  other  as  a  foe  to  be  distrusted, 
then,  indeed,  there  is  little  real  economy  to  be 
expected.  But  if  a  cook  sees  that  her  mistress  is 
willing  to  give  her  fair  wages  for  her  services,  and  to 
consider  her  comforts  in  other  ways,  whilst  at  the 
same  time  the  lady  thoroughly  understands  how  the 


io  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  i. 

cook's  duties  should  be  performed,  the  chances  are 
that  the  servant  will  readily  submit  to  be  taught  a 
thousand  little  helpful  and  comfortable  ways.  Such 
knowledge  on  the  mistress's  part  is  not  incompatible 
with  accomplishments  and  refinement  of  taste  and 
manner,  but  it  is  not  to  be  learned  from  reading  this 
book  or  any  other  book.  It  can  only  come  from 
study  and  a  possibility  of  acquiring  practical  expe- 
rience on  the  subject  whilst  the  future  matron  is  still 
a  young  girl ;  and  if  the  scheme  of  the  Committee  of 
the  National  School  of  Cookery  can  be  carried  out 
according  to  their  views  and  intentions,  it  will  be  a 
woman's  own  fault  if  in  future  her  first  visit  to  her 
kitchen  be  made  as  an  inexperienced  bride  with  a 
dozen  years  of  apprenticeship  before  her  ere  she 
can  venture  even  to  make  a  suggestion  to  her  cook, 
or  dream  of  "  tossing  up "  some  little  dainty  dish 
with  her  own  hands. 


LESSON  I. 

THE    CHEMICAL   COMPOSITION    OF   OUR    FOOD. 

THE  old  German  poet  who  wound  up  each  verse  of 
his  famous  drinking  song  by  the  assertion  that  "  four 
elements  intimately  mixed,  form  all  nature  and  build 
up  the  world,"  was  not  so  far  wrong  after  all.  The 
jovial  song-writer  referred  to  his  favourite  formula  for 
brewing  punch ;  and  according  to  him  the  world  of 


LESS,  i.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  u 

conviviality  was  built  up  by  lemon  and  sugar,  rum  and 
hot  water. 

Now,  it  is  perfectly  true  that  four  elements  go  a 
great  way  towards  building  up  the  world ;  but,  setting 
aside  the  question  of  brewing  punch,  they  are  called 
carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and  nitrogen.  So  universal 
is  their  presence  in  the  living  and  growing  parts  of 
animals  and  plants,  that  they  are  always  spoken  of  as 
"  organic  elements/'  and  science  has  ascertained  ex- 
actly the  proportion  in  which  each  should  exist  in  a 
healthy  condition  of  the  human  body.  That  body  is 
incessantly,  but  imperceptibly,  undergoing  a  process 
which  cannot  be  better  described  than  by  the  expres- 
sion of  perennial  moulting,  only  that,  whereas  certain 
animals  cast  off  certain  parts  of  their  body — their 
skin,  their  hair,  or  their  feathers — every  year,  we  lose 
a  portion  of  our  weight  every  day ;  that  is  to  say,  we 
should  lose  it  if  we  did  not  absorb  through  our  lungs, 
the  pores  of  our  skin,  and  our  stomachs,  sufficient 
oxygen,  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  nitrogen,  to  supply  the 
loss  caused  by  the  wear  and  tear  of  our  daily  life. 
There  has  even  been  an  attempt  made  to  prove  that 
our  vital  organs  are  entirely  renewed  every  forty  days 
or  so,  but  for  this  calculation  there  can  be  no  really 
satisfactory  data,  although  there  certainly  is  constant 
loss  and  gain  going  on  within  us.  The  material  for 
repairing  this  incessant  waste  which  is  the  inevitable 
result  of  the  activity  of  our  nervous  and  muscular 
system,  is  not  supplied  alone  by  the  starch,  sugar, 
water,  and  fat,  nor  yet  by  the  milk,  m.eaL-  and  vege- 


FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  : 


tables  we  consume,  but  by  a  due  combination  of 
food  material  which  shall  ensure  the  proper  pro- 
portions of  albumen,  fibrine,  and  caseine  absolutely 
required  by  our  changing  frames.  These  are  rather 
hard  words,  but  their  meaning  will  be  quite  plain  if  we 
take  as  familiar  examples  of  the  three  indispensable 
ingredients,  the  white  of  an  egg,  a  piece  of  lean  meat, 
and  a  bit  of  cheese.  Everyone  can  understand  that, 
although  these  things  contain  the  largest  proportion 
of  one  particular  substance,  still  there  may  be  many 
other  substances  in  which  they  are  present,  all  to- 
gether, and  it  is  just  to  teach  us  this,  and  to  explain 
to  us  why  we  should  rather  give  our  attention  to  pro- 
curing one  form  of  food  than  another,  that  a  know- 
ledge of  the  elements  of  Practical  Chemistry  is  useful. 
In  reading  the  accounts  of  the  hardships  and  suffer- 
ings of  explorers  and  travellers,  we  are  often  surprised 
to  learn  that  first  one  member  and  then  another  of 
the  expedition  dropped  down  and  died  long  before 
the  supplies  were  actually  exhausted.  This  is  parti- 
cularly noticeable  in  the  account  of  Burke  and  Wills' 
attempt  to  explore  the  great  plains  of  South  Australia, 
where  one  by  one  the  travellers  died,  not  so  much 
from  sheer  lack  of  some  sort  of  food  to  eat,  as  from 
the  unhappy  circumstance  of  the  only  attainable  food 
being  utterly  deficient  in  the  ingredients  without 
which  the  human  body  cannot  be  nourished.  For 
instance,  there  was  abundance  of  an  alkaline  plant 
on  which  the  natives  almost  live  at  certain  times  of 
the  year,  and  occasionally  even  a  few  fish  were  caught. 


LESS,  i.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  13 


But  these  materials  taken  by  themselves  were  so  weak 
in  life-supporting  properties,  that  they  failed  to  repair 
sufficiently  the  waste  caused  by  severe  exercise  and 
exposure  to  the  weather.  A  man  may  be  starved  to 
death,  and  yet  scarcely  feel  hungry ;  that  is  to  say,  he 
may  be  able  to  put  food  into  his  mouth  which  will 
allay  the  cravings  of  his  appetite,  but  which  may  not 
have  the  least  power  to  nourish  his  body,  so  that  he 
will  die  as  surely  as  though  he  had  nothing  to  eat 

Men's  instincts  are  generally  the  surest  guides,  and 
however  much  we  may  have  been  disgusted  to  hear 
of  such  facts  as  of  Esquimaux  and  Samoiedes  living 
upon  blubber  and  fat,  and  even  eating  8  Ibs.  or 
10  Ibs.  of  flesh  at  a  meal,  Science  teaches  us  that 
they  were  unconsciously  adopting  the  very  best  means 
of  keeping  up  the  supply  of  carbon  and  oxygen,  or 
internal  warmth,  which  their  cold  climate  rendered 
absolutely  necessary.  So  in  the  same  way  we  often 
see  a  sick  person  take  a  fancy  to  some  curious  kind 
of  food,  an4  perhaps  begin  to  recover  from  the 
moment  he  was  allowed  to  have  it.  The  chances  are 
that  if  we  could  bring  all  the  practical  chemists  in  the 
world  into  his  sick-room,  and  they  were  to  analyse  the 
component  parts  of  that  particular  food,  and  at  the 
same  time  ascertain  exactly  which  of  the  organic 
elements  of  human  life  was  insufficiently  represented 
in  the  patient's  system,  the  result  of  their  researches 
would  go  to  prove  that  the  sick  man  knew  exactly 
what  he  wanted  to  bnild  him  up  in  health,  better  than 
anyone  else. 


14   .  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  1. 


Nature  is  our  surest  guide  after  all,  only  unfor- 
tunately our  civilization  has  blunted  our  instincts, 
and  rendered  us  more  or  less  artificial,  so  that  we 
can  hardly  tell  what  is  Nature,  and  are  obliged 
to  call  in  the  aid  of  Science  to  teach  us.  Those 
who  live  in  hot  countries  do  not  require  to  provide 
their  systems  with  internal  warmth  by  means  of  food, 
and  we  shall  generally  find  that  they  prefer  a  diet 
which  will  contain  very  little  carbon.  But  it  often 
happens  that  an  Englishman  travelling  or  living  in 
such  places  will  become  terrified  at  his  loss  of  relish 
for  meat  and  heating  food,  and  will  fly  either  to  his 
doctor  for  tonics,  to  his  cook  for  pickles  to  incite  his 
flagging  appetite,  or,  still  worse,  to  wine  or  brandy  for 
stimulants  to  repair  his  imaginary  weakness.  Nature, 
thus  thwarted  in  her  arrangements,  turns  sulky,  and 
the  man  falls  ill,  accusing  the  climate  of  the  fault 
springing  from  his  own  ignorance  and  folly.  In  his 
own  country  he  knows  much  better  what  is  good  for 
him ;  and  in  mixing  bacon  with  his  beans,  or  in 
taking,  like  the  Irishman,  cabbage  with  his  potatoes, 
or,  like  the  Italian,  a  strong  kind  of  cheese  with  his 
maccaroni,  he  exhibits  so  many  purely  chemical  ways 
of  preparing  mixtures  nearly  similar  to  each  other  in 
composition  and  nutritive  value. 

In  the  rudest  diet,  and  in  the  luxuries  of  the  most 
refined  table,  the  main  cravings  of  animal  nature  are 
never  lost  sight  of.  Besides  the  first  taste  in  the 
mouth,  there  is  an  after-taste  of  the  digestive  organs, 
which  requires  to  be  satisfied  if  we  want  to  arrange  a 


LESS,  i.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  15 

perfect  diet.  It  is  not  necessary  that  a  food  should 
yield  every  kind  of  material  which  the  body  requires  to 
nourish  it,  for  then  one  sort  of  food  might  be  sufficient 
for  the  wants  of  man.  Each  sort  must  fulfil  one  or 
more  of  the  body's  requirements,  so  that  by  a  wise 
combination  the  whole  of  its  wants  may  be  supplied. 
It  is  also  to  be  borne  in  mind  that  our  nourishment 
is  not  only  the  solid  food  which  we  actually  take  into 
our  stomachs,  according  to  the  popular  idea  on  the 
subject,  but  comprises  the  water  we  drink  and  the 
air  we  breathe.  But  as  these  pages  should  treat  simply 
of  the  nourishment  for  our  bodies,  which  nourishment 
must  needs  be  submitted  to  the  action  of  fire,  it  is 
only  with  the  cooking  of  food  we  have  to  deal. 

In  considering  the  question  of  the  best  and  cheapest 
food,  and  the  most  wholesome  mode  of  cooking  it,  we 
must  keep  steadily  before  us  the  principle,  that  it  is 
not  the  quantity  of  food  received  into  the  human  body 
which  nourishes  it,  but  the  proportion  which  can  be 
digested  of  such  food.  All  else  is  sheer  waste — an 
encumbrance  worse  than  useless — whose  presence 
clogs  and  throws  out  of  gear  the  delicate  mechanism 
appointed  to  deal  with  it. 

It  is  generally  agreed  by  scientific  chemists,  that  in 
casting  around  for  something  like  a  form  of  food 
which  could  be  taken  as  a  type  of  all  others,  there  is 
none  so  perfect  as  milk.  During  the  period  when  the 
young  of  animals  as  well  as  of  human  heings  are  fed 
entirely  on  milk,  they  grow  very  rapidly  in  the  size  of 
every  part  of  their  bodies.  From  this  we  infer  that 


16  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  Th£  [PART  i. 

milk  must  contain  all  the  essentials  which  go  to  build 
up  muscle,  nerve,  bone,  and  every  other  tissue.  The 
first  lesson  we  learn  from  taking  milk  as  an  example 
of  perfect  natural  food,  is  that  there  should  be  a  cer- 
tain proportion  of  liquid  mixed  with  the  substances 
we  consume  as  food,  though,  as  the  animal  attains  its 
full  size  and  there  is  only  waste  to  be  made  up,  not 
growth  to  be  provided  for,  the  necessity  for  the  liquid 
form  of  food  diminishes. 

Of  the  flesh-forming  substances  contained  in  milk, 
caseine  is  the  most  important,  and  in  the  largest  pro- 
portions ;  therefore  it  is  with  milk  in  the  form  of 
cheese  that  it  can  best  be  dealt  with  as  human  food 
in  this  place.  Now,  there  is  a  popular  theory  that 
cheese  is  unwholesome,  and  it  certainly  is  an  indi- 
gestible substance,  but  still  it  need  only  be  avoided 
by  those  who  suffer  from  weak  digestions.  The  hard- 
working man  who  labours  with  his  muscles  in  the  open 
air,  and  whose  stomach  is  in  the  best  possible  condition 
to  digest  his  food,  does  wisely  to  spend,  as  he  generally 
does,  what  little  money  he  may  possess  in  cheese,  for 
cheese  contains  nearly  twice  the  quantity  of  nutritive 
matter  he  would  get  in  the  same  weight  of  cooked 
meat.  Even  with  delicate  feeders,  a  small  quantity 
of  cheese  taken  with  other  food  facilitates  digestion, 
for  caseine  is  easily  decomposed  or  put  in  a  condition 
which  causes  other  things  to  change.  When,  there- 
fore, we  eat  a  piece  of  cheese  after  a  meal,  it  acts  like 
yeast  in  bread,  and  starts  a  change  in  the  food  j  for 
the  chances  are  that  the  stomach  in  trying  to  digest 


LESS.  I.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING,  17 

the  cheese  will  digest  the  rest  of  its  contents  at  the 
same  time.  The  mouldy  cheese  which  some  people's 
instinct  leads  them  to  prefer,  acts  more  quickly  in 
this  way  than  fresh  cheese.  When  cheese  is  spoken 
of  as  a  nourishing  article  of  food,  especially  to  those 
who  labour  in  the  open  air,  it  is  only  cheese  in  which 
the  cream  has  not  been  previously  separated  from  the 
milk,  for  the  actual  nutritive  value  will  depend  on  the 
amount  of  butter  material  left  in  it.  The  cheap  skim- 
milk  cheeses  of  South  Wales  yield  so  little  nourish- 
ment in  this  respect,  that  they  are  of  but  slight  value 
as  flesh-formers,  whereas  the  rich  cheeses  from  Ched- 
dar, Stilton,  and  Ayrshire  are  not  only  infinitely 
cheaper  than  meat,  but  are  also  very  nourishing. 

It  will  perhaps  only  be  necessary  to  take  bread 
and  beef  as  samples  of  food  which  contain  in  them- 
selves every  element  required  to  build  up  the  human 
frame,  to  repair  the  daily  waste,  and  to  preserve  all 
the  conditions  of  perfect  health.  The  generality  of 
mankind  have  found  out  the  value  of  these  substances 
for  themselves  without  the  aid  of  science  ;  but  it  may 
be  as  well  to  learn  something  about  bread  and  beef, 
for  the  simple  reason  that  as  we  cannot  always,  under 
all  circumstances,  make  sure  of  having  them  as  food, 
we  may  be  able  to  select  those  substances  which 
come  nearest  to  them  in  nutritive  value,  if  we  under- 
stand the  component  parts  which  make  them  so  im- 
portant. 


1 8  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [TART  i. 


LESSON   II. 

BREAD    AND    BEEF. 

NATURE  is  always  busy  cooking  inside  us.  She  is 
ever  separating,  arranging,  and  making  the  best  of  the 
heterogeneous  substances  we  give  her  to  deal  with, 
and  it  is  as  well  to  find  out  what  materials  are  the 
easiest  for  her  to  manage,  and  so  learn  to  economize 
her  forces  to  the  utmost.  Of  all  the  food  used  to 
repair  the  incessant  waste  caused  by  muscular  exertion 
in  the  open  air,  bread  and  beef,  as  we  have  already 
remarked,  best  fulfil  the  needs  of  the  human  system 
under  those  conditions ;  and  we  will  first  look  at  the 
chemical  composition  of  bread. 

It  is  needless  to  trace  the  growth  of  wheat  before  it 
arrives  at  the  mill  to  be  converted  into  flour,  but  when 
it  reaches  that  stage  it  comes  within  the  limits  of  the 
inquiry  which  we  propose  to  ourselves.  Wheat  is 
practically  divided  into  two  parts  :  the  bran  or  outer 
covering,  and  the  central  grain  or  fecula ;  and  the 
object  of  the  miller  in  the  preparation  of  flour  is  to 
mix  the  qualities  as  above  mentioned  so  as  to  suit  his 
market,  and  either  to  separate  the  bran  entirely  or 
partially  from  the  grain,  or  to  leave  the  whole  in  flour. 
According  to  the  quality  of  the  grain  and  the  amount 
of  the  husk  left  in  it,  the  value  of  the  flour  varies,  and 
it  is  divided  into  four  classes  :  the  "  fine  households  " 


LESS,  ii.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  19 


or  best,  "  households  "  or  "  seconds,"  brown  meal,  and 
biscuit  flour ;  and  the  value  must  chiefly  depend  on  the 
estimate  which  is  formed  of  the  nutritive  proportions 
of  the  different  parts  of  the  bran. 

Many  people  say,  vaguely,  "  Oh,  brown  bread  is 
more  wholesome  than  white "  ;  but  it  is  impossible 
it  can  be  more  nutritious,  though  it  may  be  more 
palatable;  for  the  outer  part  of  the  bran  is  glazed 
over  with  a  layer  of  flint  which  is  quite  indigestible. 
At  the  same  time  it  must  be  acknowledged  that  our 
practical  experience  teaches  us  that,  although  the 
stomach  may  find  it  impossible  to  assimilate  bran 
itself,  yet  the  presence  of  bran  in  bread  stimulates 
the  juices  of  the  stomach  to  greater  activity,  and 
therefore,  like  cheese,  promotes  the  digestion  of  other 
things.  To  a  delicate  organization  it  would  probably 
act  as  an  irritant,  and  therefore  its  use  should  not  be 
persisted  in  unless  there  is  absolutely  no  disarrange- 
ment of  the  digestive  system.  However  finely  the 
outer  bran  may  be  ground,  it  still  remains  in  nutritious, 
but  the  inner  husk  possesses  great  value  from  the 
large  proportion  of  nitrogenous  matter  which  it  con- 
tains. The  whiteness  of  the  flour  is  not  always  a  test 
of  its  purity  or  nourishing  powers,  as  in  cases  where 
the  flour  from  red  wheat  has  been  most  thoroughly 
sifted  or  "bolted,"  it  will  still  keep  a  darker  tinge 
than  even  "  seconds  "  flour  obtained  from  white  wheat, 
though  the  red  wheat  remains  the  most  nutritious. 

It  is  an  instance  of  what  I  have  before  remarked 
about  the  instinct  which  guides  our  choice  of  food, 


FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  i. 


that  the;  navvies,  who  work  perhaps  harder  than  any 
other  men  in  the  world,  make  it  a  point  to  procure 
the  very  best  and  purest  and  most  expensive  wheaten 
bread.  It  is  always  the  first  thing  thought  of  in 
settling  to  a  job  of  work  in  a  new  place,  that  these 
men  should  be  able  to  get  the  finest  wheaten  bread 
to  eat.  In  making  this  proviso  they  are  really  guided 
by  principles  of  true  economy,  for  in  their  case  the 
necessary  waste  of  tissue  is  so  great  that  they  cannot 
afford  to  take  into  their  stomachs  any  superfluous 
matter  which  will  not  nourish  their  bodies.  And  we 
will  presently  see  why  pure  wheaten  bread  is  the  most 
nourishing  of  all  the  cereals,  although  there  are  other 
forms  in  which  wheaten  flour  might  be  used  with 
advantage,  such  as  when  made  into  maccaroni  or 
sifted  into  semolina. 

In  other  countries,  where  wheaten  bread  is  not  the 
staple  article  of  food,  it  is  curious  to  notice  how  those 
who  have  to  work  hard  in  the  open  air  have  struck 
out  substitutes  for  themselves  which  contain  ingre- 
dients as  near  to  wheaten  bread  in  chemical  value  as 
can  be  procured.  Thus  the  miners  of  Chili,  whose 
lives  are  very  laborious,  feed  on  beans  and  roasted 
grain ;  whilst  some  Hindoo  navvies  found  their 
physical  powers  too  low  to  do  a  good  day's  work 
when  engaged  in  boring  a  tunnel,  until  they  left  off 
eating  rice  and  took  to  wheaten  bread  and  flesh.  But 
the  wheat  grown  in  a  tropical  country  is  never  of 
much  value  for  nutritive  purposes,  nor  yet  that  grown  in 
a  cold  one.  A  hot  summer  in  a  sunny  clime  lying  within 


LESS,  ii.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  21 

the  temperate  zone  produces  the  best  grain — that  is, 
grain  with  the  least  proportion  of  water  and  the  greatest 
of  nitrogen.  Rice  flour  possesses  so  much  less  nitrogen 
than  does  wheaten  flour  that  its  nutritive  value  is  a  good 
deal  lessened,  and  in  countries  where  it  is  the  staple 
food,  a  very  great  deal  has  to  be  produced  and  con- 
sumed to  afford  the  inhabitants  anything  like  a  suffi- 
ciency of  nourishment.  The  innutritive  quality  of 
rice  is  naturally  the  reason  why  a  scarcity  of  that  food 
causes  such  fatal  results  in  an  apparently  short  time. 
The  people  who  habitually  eat  it  have  already  brought 
their  vital  powers  to  so  low  an  ebb,  that  a  very  small 
diminution  of  nourishment  suffices  to  lower  the  life- 
supporting  standard  beneath  the  possibility  of  exist- 
ence. The  chief  reason  why  wheat,  and  indeed  all 
the  cereals,  are  of  such  primary  importance  as  food, 
is,  that  whilst  nitrogen  is  absolutely  indispensable  to 
the  animal  body,  it  cannot  be  produced  out  of  sub- 
stances which  do  not  contain  it.  The  same  is  true  of 
carbon,  but  we  must  look  to  flesh  to  produce  that. 
The  chief  ingredients  of  our  blood  contain  nearly 
17  per  cent,  of  nitrogen,  according  to  Liebig,  and 
he  was  also  convinced  that  no  part  of  an  organ  con- 
tains less  than  the  same  proportion  of  that  elemen- 
tary body.  The  nitrogenous  principle  in^  wheat  is 
called  gluten ;  but  it  is  the  cerealin  which  acts  as  a 
ferment  and  assists  in  the  digestion  of  the  other 
substances. 

In  wheat  this  is  what  we  find — water,  gluten,  albu- 
men, starch,  sugar,  gum,  fat,  woody  fibre,  and  mineral 


FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE 


matter,  all  in  certain  proportions,  but  there  is  a  great 
deal  more  starch  than  anything  else.  Next  to  starch 
comes  gluten,  and  we  must  remember  it  is  in  that 
ingredient  the  nitrogenous  principle  lurks.  If  these 
component  parts  are  again  classed,  the  result  will  be 
that  wheat  stands  first  as  a  "force-producer,"  and 
second  as  a  "  flesh- producer ; "  so,  as  strength  is  of 
more  importance  to  the  navvies  than  flesh,  they  may 
well  be  excused  for  being  so  particular  about  their 
bread.  In  another  place  we  will  speak  of  the 
simplest  and  best  modes  of  making  wheaten  flour 
into  bread.  Now  we  must  pass  on  to  beef,  and  try 
to  show  why  our  national  love  of  this  particular  form 
of  flesh-food  has  had  its  origin  in  an  instinct  of  what 
was  best  to  keep  ourselves  in  good  working  or  fight- 
ing condition. 

Although  bread  actually  produces  fibrine,  still  it  is 
best  if  we  need  only  look  to  it  for  gluten,  albumen, 
and  so  forth,  and  depend  upon  flesh  for  fibrine,  where 
we  shall  find  it  ready-made  to  our  hand  (or,  should  I 
say  to  our  mouth?)  in  the  fibres  of  the  meat.  Of 
all  the  forms  of  meat  used  for  human  food,  the  flesh 
of  the  ox  is  that  generally  preferred  where  there  is 
any  choice  in  the  matter,  and  it  is  certainly  both 
nourishing  and  easily  digested.  In  comparing  the 
nutritive  value  of  different  kinds  of  meat,  we  must 
distinguish  between  fat  and  lean,  and  the  amount  of 
nourishment  is  in  proportion  to  the  fat  or  lean  of  the 
meat.  Fat  (that  is,  carbon)  generates  heat,  but  lean 
generates  heat  and  forms  flesh  as  well,  for  in  lean 


LESS,  ii.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  23 

flesh  all  four  "  organic  elements  "  are  well  represented, 
In  both  mutton  and  pork  we  get  so  much  fat  that  the 
actual  nourishment  contained  in  the  same  amount  of 
beef  (unless  exceptionally  fattened)  is  greater,  and  it 
is  also  the  fullest  of  the  red  blood  juices.  Besides 
this,  the  loss  in  cooking  beef  is  much  less  than  in 
cooking  mutton,  owing  to  the  greater  solidity  of  the 
flesh  and  the  smaller  proportion  of  fat.  "It  is  quite 
certain,"  says  Liebig,  "  that  a  nation  of  animal  feeders 
is  always  a  nation  of  hunters,  for  the  use  of  a  rich 
nitrogenous  diet  demands  an  expenditure  of  power 
and  a  large  amount  of  physical  exertion,  as  is  seen  in 
the  restless  disposition  of  all  the  carnivora  of  our 
menageries."  Hence  it  follows  that  for  those  whose 
daily  toil  necessitates  an  expenditure  of  power,  it 
would  be  the  truest  economy  if  they  were  to  endea- 
vour to  supply  the  waste  of  their  muscular  system  by 
ever  so  small  a  quantity  of  true  flesh-forming  food,  in- 
stead of  being  contented  with  a  larger  meal  of  a  less 
nourishing  description,  washed  down  by  beer  or  spirit, 
which  contains  no  real  nutritive  worth.  Malt  and 
alcohol  possess  narcotic  and  stimulating  properties, 
and  do  no  harm  in  moderation — indeed,  to  the  weak 
or  aged  they  are  of  incalculable  value.  But  a  strong, 
healthy  labouring  man  would  keep  himself  in  much 
better  working  order  if  he  economized  his  beer  and 
increased  his  animal  food. 

I  have  seen  with  my  own  eyes  a  very  forcible  illus- 
tration of  this  truth  in  the  working  man  of  New 
Zealand  as  he  existed  some  years  ago.  In  those 


24  FIRST  LESSENS  IN  THE  [PART.  i. 

days  beer  and  spirit  used  to  be  almost  unknown 
except  in  the  young  colonial  towns,  and  the  early 
settlers  up  the  country  lived  entirely  on  bread  and 
mutton,  for  even  potatoes  were  a  rare  and  pre- 
cious delicacy  for  the  first  half-dozen  years.  Such  a 
splendid  physical  condition  of  the  human  frame  it 
had  never  before  been  my  good  fortune  to  behold. 
Everyone  looked  in  the  perfection  of  health:  clear 
complexions,  bright  eyes,  and  active  limbs  which 
seemed  not  to  know  fatigue,  were  the  result  of  many 
years  of  a  compulsory  and  much-abused  diet  of  bread, 
tea,  and  mutton.  When  I  say  tea,  it  was  really  only 
used  as  a  stimulant  or  for  warmth,  for  cold  water  was 
the  universal  beverage.  People  might  grumble,  but 
they  throve,  and  the  generation  whom  I  saw  growing 
on  that  diet  from  childhood  towards  man's  estate 
might  challenge  the  world  over  to  produce  their 
equals  for  vigour  and  strength. 

Perhaps  it  is  rather  "bull"-ish  of  me  to  insist  in 
one  page  upon  beef,  like  motley,  being  "your  only 
wear,"  and  then  in  the  next  going  near  to  show  that 
mutton  does  just  as  well;  but,  seriously,  one  has  only 
to  turn  to  Sir  Francis  Head's  account  of  his  ride 
across  the  Pampas,  to  Jearn  how  much  exertion  can 
be  supported  upon  dried  lean  beef.  It  is  not  only, 
as  Sir  Francis  says,  that  he  endured  enormous  and 
incessant  fatigue  solely  on  this  beef  diet,  but  that 
months  of  such  fatigue  left  him  in  splendid  physical 
condition,  able  to  do  anything  or  go  anywhere.  To 
reconcile  the  two  theories,  however,  I  must  add  that 


UNIVERSITY) 


LESS.  HI.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING,  25 


the  gallant  veteran  confesses  his  beef  diet  rendered 
him  somewhat  lean  and  ill-favoured,  and  that  he  did 
not  look  so  handsome  and  well  as  my  mutton-fed 
New  Zealand  colonists  used  to  do. 


LESSON  III. 

FISH. 

IN  many  parts  of  the  coast  of  our  sea-surrounded 
home,  fish  is,  from  necessity,  the  staple  food  of  the 
inhabitants;  and  although  whole  districts  in  other 
parts  of  the  world,  such  as  Dacca,  the  Mediter- 
ranean coast  of  Spain,  &c.,  are  fed  almost  entirely 
on  fish,  our  business  lies  only  with  our  own  people. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  fish,  even  the  red-blooded 
salmon,  should  not  be  the  sole  nitrogenous  animal 
food  of  any  nation ;  and  even  if  milk  and  eggs  be 
added,  the  vigour  of  such  people  will  not  equal 
that  of  a  flesh- eating  community.  But  of  all 
kinds  of  animal  food,  the  fresh  herring  offers  the 
largest  amount  of  nutriment  for  the  smallest  amount 
of  money,  and  this  statement  is  the  more  curious 
when  we  think  of  the  turtle,  which  is  produced  in 
such  enormous  quantities  on  the  shores  of  the  West 
Indian  islands,  as  well  as  the  estuaries  of  the  Indian 
coast.  Although  the  flesh  of  the  turtle  is  palatable 
and  wholesome,  it  possesses  a  cloying  peculiarity, 
insomuch  that,  after  a  year  or  two,  Europeans  will 


26  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  I. 

suffer  hunger  to  the  verge  of  starvation  rather  than 
touch  it.  Perhaps  this  repugnance  may  be  an  in- 
stinct arising  from  the  fact  that  the  phosphoric  fat 
of  the  turtle  renders  it  difficult  of  solution  in  the 
digestive  juices,  and  therefore  its  really  nutritious 
properties  are  counteracted  by  this  superabundant 
richness. 

So  we  see  that  the  balance  has  to  be  very 
nicely  adjusted :  the  old  proverb,  "If  a  little  of  a 
thing  is  good,  a  great  deal  is  better,"  does  not  hold 
good  at  all  with  our  food.  We  have  to  take  great 
care  that,  according  to  the  means  within  our  reach, 
that  supply  of  the  proper  proportions  of  the  organic 
elements  which  are  as  necessary  to  our  bodies  as  fuel 
to  a  fire,  should  be  kept  up.  In  fact,  food  is  to  our 
body  exactly  what  fuel  is  to  a  fire.  If  we  choke  up 
the  range  or  stove  with  dust  and  bricks,  the  fire  will 
go  out ;  and  so,  if  we  persist  in  supplying  the  furnace 
of  our  life  with  materials  which  it  cannot  possibly  as- 
similate, or  use  as  fuel,  the  fire  of  our  lives  will  die  out. 
If  people  understood,  or  would  even  try  to  understand 
— and  it  is  not  so  difficult  as  many  things  uneducated 
people  learn  quite  easily — why  certain  kinds  of  food 
produce  certain  conditions  of  the  human  frame,  there 
would  be  far  less  disease. 

The  great  mistake  is  to  think  that  actual  want  of  money 
is  at  the  root  of  the  bad  food  of  English  labourers. 
It  is  not  so  at  all.  I  do  not  deny  the  poverty  nor  the 
toil  requisite,  alas  !  to  obtain  even  the  scantiest  meal ; 
but  anyone  with  any  practical  experience  of  the  very 


LESS,  in.]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  27 


poor  of  our  own  country  will  agree  in  the  assertion 
that  perhaps  half  of  that  pressure  is  removable  by 
education  in  the  art  of  making  the  most  of  things.  I 
have  often  seen  a  poor  woman  who  had  been  com- 
plaining to  me  of  the  scarcity  of  fuel,  or  the  want 
of  food,  prepare  to  light  her  fire,  cook  her  husband's 
dinner,  or  bake  her  bread,  in  the  most  recklessly 
extravagant  manner.  So  with  fish.  How  often  at 
the  time  of  the  Irish  famine  were  the  charitable 
English  public  startled  by  hearing  that  people  were 
starving  on  a  coast  swarming  with  fish  ?  If  it  had 
been  possible  to  teach  the  poor  ignorant  sufferers, 
that  although  there  was  not  quite  so  much  nourish- 
ment in  fish  as  in  meat,  still  it  would  have  made  a 
palatable  and  wholesome  addition  to  their  starvation 
diet  of  Indian  maize,  much  distress  would  have  been 
warded  off. 

The  flesh  of  fish  contains  fibrine,  albumen,  and 
gelatine  in  small  proportions,  and  fat,  water,  and 
mineral  matter  go  to  make  up  the  rest  of  the  com- 
ponent parts.  It  is  curious  to  find  the  difference  of 
fat  in  some  fishes,  especially  mackerel,  which  pos- 
sesses a  very  large  proportion,  herrings  coming  next 
(some  people  say  first),  but  at  all  events  they  both 
should  be  cooked  in  such  a  way  as  to  get  rid  of 
as  much  of  this  fat  as  possible.  Enough  will  re- 
main to  make  the  fish  nourishing,  but  if  there  be 
too  much  fat  it  renders  fish  indigestible.  This 
danger  needs  to  be  particularly  guarded  against  with 
eels.  Haddocks,  whiting,  smelts,  cod,  soles,  and 


28  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  i. 

turbot  are  all  less  fatty,  and  consequently  more 
digestible,  than  such  fish  as  salmon,  pilchards,  sprats, 
and  mackerel.  Raw  oysters  are  more  digestible  than 
cooked  ones,  because  the  heat  coagulates  and  hardens 
the  albumen  at  once,  besides  making  the  fibrine  too 
solid,  and  rendering  it  less  easy  for  the  gastric  juices 
to  dissolve. 

We  must  bear  in  mind  that  the  flesh  of  all  fish 
out  of  season  is  unwholesome,  and  often  makes  people 
ill.  I  am  afraid  Mr.  Frank  Buckland  and  other  true 
lovers  of  pisciculture  would  view  the  sufferings  of 
such  depraved  gourmets  with  great  indifference,  and  it 
is,  indeed,  most  shocking  to  the  food-economist  to 
read  of  the  shoals  of  baby  soles  an  inch  or  two 
long,  of  diminutive  oysters,  of  the  ova  of  the  cod, 
the  roe  of  the  salmon,  and  of  the  fry  of  the  herring, 
which  are  brought  to  our  markets  and  readily  sold 
in  spite  of  vigilant  bye-laws. 

It  is  not  possible  in  this  place  to  deal  with  the 
subject  of  cooking  fish  :  cooking  it  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  fat  which  renders  it  often  unwholesome  shall 
be  eliminated,  and  the  nourishing  and  gelatinous  por- 
tions of  the  fleshy  substance  made  the  most  of. 


LESS,  iv.]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  29 


LESSON  IV. 

VEGETABLES. 

I  FEEL  that  I  cannot  begin  this  chapter  better  than  by 
quoting  what  Dr.  Letheby  says  on  the  subject : 

"  Primarily,  all  our  foods  are  derived  from  the  vege- 
table kingdom,  for  no  animal  has  the  physiological 
power  of  associating  mineral  elements  and  forming 
them  into  food.  Within  our  own  bodies  there  is  no 
faculty  for  such  conversion ;  our  province  is  to  pull 
down  what  the  vegetable  has  built  up,  and  to  let  loose 
the  affinities  which  the  plant  has  brought  into  bond- 
age, and  thus  to  restore  to  inanimate  nature  the 
matter  and  force  which  the  growing  plant  had  taken 
from  it." 

It  is  thus  plain  that  the  beef  and  mutton  we  eat 
derive  their  fibrine,  gluten,  and  all  other  necessary 
ingredients  from  the  vegetables  on  which  the  oxen 
and  sheep  have  fed,  though  such  food  does  not  ap- 
parently contain  any  of  these  substances.  It  is  a 
curious  suggestion  which  I  have  often  met  with,  that 
if  a  vegetarian  family  lived  in  accordance  with  the 
rules  of  one  of  their  own  peculiar  cookery  books,  each 
member  would  actually  consume  half  an  ounce  more 
animal  food  a  day  than  a  man  would  do  who  lived 
according  to  the  usual  scale  of  diet. 

Vegetables  are  aliments  which  dilute  the  blood,  and 


30  FIRST  LESSON'S  IN  THE  [PART  i. 

contain  more  salts  than  albumen.  They  convey  very 
little  nutriment  to  the  blood,  as  we  may  see  in  the 
feeble  muscles  of  tropic-dwellers  who  feed  almost 
entirely  on  vegetables.  On  the  other  hand,  they  are 
of  great  service,  first  in  the  digestive  canal,  where 
they  dissolve  the  albuminous  substances  of  the  meat, 
and  afterwards  in  the  blood  itself,  where,  if  they  do 
not  actually  nourish,  they  yet  keep  the  albumen  and 
fibrine  in  a  liquid  state,  and  enable  those  substances 
to  perform  their  proper  functions  more  vigorously. 
Of  course  the  cereals  would  naturally  stand  first  in 
a  chapter  on  vegetables,  as  they,  of  all  the  products 
of  the  vegetable  kingdom,  are  the  most  depended 
upon  by  man  for  food.  As,  however,  wheat,  which 
is  the  principal  cereal  of  England,  has  been  noticed 
in  another  chapter,  we  may  as  well  proceed  to  ex- 
amine the  nutritive  properties  of  other  vegetables. 
In  such  an  inquiry  the  potato  comes  first,  for, 
owing  to  its  large  proportion  of  starch,  it  is  the 
most  actually  nourishing  of  all  vegetables.  This 
starch  is  transformed  into  fat  by  the  digestive  pro- 
cess, and  if  potatoes  could  be  eaten  with  a  suffi- 
ciency of  white  of  egg,  their  nutritive  value  would 
be  brought  very  near  the  meat  standard.  Other 
roots  and  tubers  contain  a  larger  proportion  of  sugar, 
and  there  is  even  fat  present  in  some  of  them,  but 
none  are  so  rich  in  this  nourishing  starch  as  the 
potato.  A  man  may,  and  probably  will,  look  fat  and 
rosy  on  a  potato  diet,  yet  his  muscle  will  not  be 
in  first-rate  condition,  nor  will  he  be  able  to  endure 


LESS.  TV.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  31 


prolonged  fatigue.  In  spite,  therefore,  of  the  com- 
parative low  price  of  potatoes,  they  are  not  the  most 
economical  food  for  a  labourer,  nor  can  he  depend  on 
their  nourishing  starch  alone  to  provide  him  with  the 
requisite  bodily  strength.  All  succulent  vegetables 
are  anti-scorbutic,  and  since  the  potato  was  brought 
into  use  as  a  daily  ration  in  the  fleet  (not  a  hundred 
years  ago),  scurvy  has  gradually  died  out.  If  there  is 
any  difficulty  in  providing  potatoes — for  during  long 
voyages,  when  crossing  the  tropics,  the  potatoes 
will  begin  to  grow,  and  so  become  unfit  for  food — 
lime-juice  is  the  next  best  substitute,  for  it  contains 
most  of  the  chemical  ingredients  which  go  to  make 
the  salts  of  potash  found  in  all  fresh  vegetables,  but 
which  is  specially  present  in  the  potato.  It  has 
often  been  pointed  out  that  there  is  really  no 
excuse  for  scurvy  now-a-days,  for  potatoes,  cabbages, 
turnips,  and  carrots  can  be  pressed  into  a  very 
small  space,  and  yet  carry  their  potash  about  with 
them.  Indeed,  this  process  has  lately  been  carried 
to  great  perfection.  Other  vegetables  are  less  actually 
nutritious  than  the  potato,  and  the  palate  grows 
sooner  tired  of  them,  but  yet  one  hundred  pounds  of 
potatoes  contain  barely  as  much  nitrogenous  matter, 
— that  is  to  say,  positive  nourishment, — as  thirteen 
pounds  of  wheat. 

As  the  wholesomeness  and  digestibility  of  vege- 
tables depend  much  on  how  they  are  cooked,  it  is 
perhaps  useless  to  enter  here  into  a  longer  expla- 
nation why  vegetables,  though  they  constitute  the 


7.7  FIRST  LESSON'S  IN  COOKING.         [PART  I. 

entire  food  of  animals  whose  flesh  contains  the 
highest  forms  of  nourishment,  will  not,  of  them- 
selves, supply  man  with  the  food  he  requires  to 
keep  his  muscles  strong  and  vigorous.  In  the  coun- 
tries where  the  inhabitants  are  compelled  by  the 
necessities  of  the  climate  to  live  chiefly  on  them, 
Nature  is  so  bountiful  that  she  does  not  call  upon 
man  to  cultivate  the  ground  as  we  are  obliged  to  do. 
Therefore,  it  stands  to  reason  that  in  a  climate  where 
severe  manual  labour  is  necessary  to  produce  food,  a 
diet  of  a  muscle-relaxing,  fat-forming  nature  is  a  very 
poor  economy. 


PART    II. 

THE  BES7  MODES   OF  PREPARING  SOME  SOR7S 
OF  FOOD   FOR  USE,    WITH  A  SIMPLE  EXPLA 
NATION  OF  7 HEIR  RESPECTIVE  ACTIONS. 


PART  II. 

REMARKS. 

THE  very  first  principle  of  cooking  is  cleanliness. 
No  skill  or  flavouring  can  make  up  for  the  lack  of  it, 
and  if  it  be  present,  there  is  good  hope  of  every  other 
culinary  virtue.  But  cleanliness  is  an  elastic  term,  and 
I  wish  it  to  be  clearly  understood  that  I  would  fain 
stretch  its  interpretation  to  the  utmost  limit.  Even  the 
sacred  frying-pan  would  I  ruthlessly  scour,  all  unheed- 
ing the  old-fashioned,  and,  let  us  add,  dirty  axiom,  that 
\t  should  be  left  with  the  fat  in  it.  It  is  quite  true 
that  the  fat  which  has  been  used  to  fry  potatoes,  or 
fritters,  or  anything  except  fish,  may  be  poured  out  of 
the  saucepan  into  a  daintily  clean  basin  or  empty 
jam-pot  and  used  again  and  again,  but  I  would  have 
every  cook  taught  to  clean  her  frying-pan  thoroughly 
every  time  she  uses  it.  The  fat  in  which  fish  has 
been  fried  should  never  be  used  for  frying  anything 
else,  and  an  economical  housewife  will  take  care  that 
the  fish  is  fried  last.  I  have  sometimes  been  met 
with  the  assertion  that  it  is  too  much  trouble  and 
takes  too  much  time  to  keep  everything  in  a  kitchen 
as  clean  as  it  ought  to  be  kept.  To  that  I  reply, 
that  if  a  girl  be  brought  up  by  a  tidy  mother  or 
mistress  to  understand  and  appreciate  the  value  and 

D    2 


36  FIRST  LESSONS  TN  THE  [PART  n. 

beauty  of  cleanliness,  she  will  never  be  able  to  endure  I 
any  other  state  of  things.     I  declare  that  I  have  ob-  i 
served  greater  dirt  among  the  saucepans  and  a  deeper 
shade  of  black   over  everything  in  kitchens  where 
neither  poverty  nor  want  of  time  could  be  pleaded 
in  excuse,  than  in  a  place  where  one  pair  of  willing 
hands   has  had   to  keep  the  living-room    of  half  a 
dozen  people  tidy. 

I  am  not  sure  that  I  do  not  detest  surface-cleanli- 
ness, with  its  deceptive  whiteness,  more  than  genuine 
honest  dirt  about  which  there  is  no  concealment,  for 
the  sham  snowiness  is  apt  to  throw  youthful  house- 
keepers off  their  guard.  For  their  encouragement 
I  can  assure  them  that  it  is  not  such  a  superhuman 
task  as  it  appears  to  see  that  everything  under  their 
sceptre  is  kept  scrupulously  clean,  for  the  advantages 
of  cleanliness  over  dirt  are  as  patent  as  light  over 
darkness,  and  ninety-nine  servants  out  of  a  hundred 
will  soon  come  to  acknowledge  this  themselves. 
People  of  all  ranks  and  classes  differ  in  this  respect 
according  to  their  instincts  and  training,  and  in  many 
a  fine  house  a  dirty  cook  would  find  things  more 
after  her  own  heart  than  in  a  two-roomed  cottage. 

Let  us,  for  a  moment,  take  the  case  of  a  girl  who  has 
been  a  housemaid  or  nursemaid  in  a  small  family,  and 
who  marries  a  decent  young  artisan  earning  from  15^. 
to  25^.  a  week.  Here  is  enough  money  for  comfort 
i/  the  wife  knows  how  to  manage  and  is  clean  and 
tidy  in  herself.  How  far  will  that,  or  twice  that  sum, 
go  if  she  be  an  ignorant  slattern  ?  The  chances  are 


REMARKS.]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  37 

that  such  a  girl  knows  absolutely  nothing  of  cooking, 
and  that  she  will  have  to  arrive  at  even  the  smallest 
amount  of  such  knowledge  through  a  long  series  of 
unpalatable  meals  and  wasted  food.  Perhaps  it  may 
be  years  before  she  attains  to  the  production  of  any 
dish  which  can  fairly  be  called  wholesome  or  nourish- 
ing ;  but  surely  she  is  not  to  be  blamed  for  her  igno- 
rance. She  has  gone  straight  from  her  school  to  a 
situation  whose  duties  have  never  taken  her  into  the 
kitchen,  and  she  finds  herself  at  twenty-five  years  of 
age  at  the  head  of  a  working  man's  home,  with  no 
more  notion  of  how  to  manage  their  income  comfort- 
ably than  if  she  were  an  infant.  She  has  hitherto 
had  no  opportunity  of  learning  how  to  cook ;  but  if 
she  has  been  taught  to  be  thoroughly  clean  and  tidy 
in  her  habits  and  ways,  she  may  rest  assured  that  half 
the  battle  is  won.  The  other  half,  the  National  School 
of  Cookery  at  South  Kensington  steps  in  to  help 
her  to  win,  and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  in  due  time, 
by  the  establishment  of  branch  institutions  all  over 
the  kingdom,  by  means  of  lectures  and  demonstra- 
tions (for  cooking  cannot  be  taught  by  theory),  any 
young  woman  in  such  a  position  will  know  where  to 
go  if  she  wants  to  learn  how  to  cook  the  food  her 
husband's  wages  enable  her  to  provide.  But  clean- 
liness she  must  teach  herself,  and  practise  it  diligently 
in  her  little  kitchen,  for  without  it  she  can  never  be  a 
good  cook,  no  matter  how  successful  she  be  in  the 
matter  of  bread,  or  how  deftly  she  may  handle  her 
frying  or  sauce  pan. 


38  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 


LESSON  V. 

THE    PREPARATIONS    OF    FLOUR    USED    AS    FOOD. 

IT  is  well  known  that  so  far  as  actual  nutritive  power 
goes,  both  oats  and  barley,  to  say  nothing  of  maize, 
rye,  the  millets,  and  rice,  contain  as  much  (oats, 
indeed,  more)  valuable  material  for  the  maintenance 
of  the  human  body  as  wheat  does ;  that  is  to  say, 
they  all  contain  certain  proportions  of  starch,  protein, 
or  the  nutritive  ingredient,  represented  by  oily  or 
fatty  matter,  besides  sundry  saline  particles.  All  these 
are  indispensable  to  the  building  up  of  the  human 
body.  Why  then  do  we  find  wheat  more  cultivated 
and  used  in  greater  quantities  by  all  the  civilized 
nations  than  any  of  the  other  cereals?  The  only 
reason  can  be  that  wheaten  flour  alone,  of  all  these 
farinaceous  foods,  will  make  fermented  bread. 

I  used  at  one  time  to  think  that  bread-making  must 
be  the  very  simplest  thing  in  the  world,  but  when  I 
came  to  be  face  to  face  with  flour  and  yeast  I  found 
it  was  not  so  easy  a  matter  to  produce  light  good 
bread.  These  pages  are  not  written  therefore  for 
the  instruction  of  bakers  or  those  fortunate  people 
who  have  learned,  at  an  age  and  under  circumstances 
when  learning  is  easy,  how  to  make  bread,  but  with 


LESS,  v.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  39 

the  hope  that  they  may  prove  ever  so  slight  a  prac- 
tical help  to  those  who  are  as  profoundly  ignorant  as 
I  was,  not  so  long  ago. 

First  of  all  the  yeast  has  to  be  thought  of.  When 
near  a  town  this  thorn  in  the  path  of  the  anxious 
bread-maker  is  removed  by  the  facility  with  which 
brewer's  or  ready-prepared  baker's  yeast  can  be  pro- 
cured. Brewer's  yeast  is  simply  the  scum  which  rises 
to  the  top  of  the  malt  during  the  process  of  fer- 
mentation, and  is  of  no  use  to  the  beer,  or  wort.  The 
brewer  is  therefore  glad  to  dispose  of  it,  and  the 
baker  takes  it  off  his  hands.  But  he  does  not  put  it 
raw  into  his  bread.  A  special  ferment  is  first  ob- 
tained from  mealy  potatoes,  by  boiling  them  in  water, 
mashing  them,  and  allowing  them  to  cool  to  a  tem- 
perature of  about  80°  of  Fahrenheit.  Yeast  is  then 
added  to  them,  and  in  a  few  hours  they  will  get  into  a 
state  of  active  fermentation  with  a  sort  of  cauliflower 
head.  Water  should  now  be  gently  poured  into  this 
mixture,  and  it  must  be  strained,  after  which  a  very 
little  flour  should  be  lightly  sprinkled  into  it.  In 
five  or  six  hours  the  whole  will  rise  to  a  fine  sponge, 
when  more  water  must  be  added,  and  a  little  salt, 
and  then  the  yeast  is  fit  to  use.  It  may  now  be 
bottled,  but  it  is  not  advisable  to  make  a  great  deal 
at  a  time.  On  account  of  the  fermentation,  yeast- 
bottles  can  only  be  kept  from  bursting  by  plugging 
their  mouths  with  soft  paper  or  cotton-wool.  If 
neither  the  fresh  yeast  from  the  brewers  (which  will 
not  keep  by  itself  for  more  than  a  day  or  two)  or  the 


40  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

dried  yeast,  which  keeps  a  long  time,  can  be  ob- 
tained, then  it  will  be  necessary  to  boil  some  dried 
nops  in  a  very  little  water,  put  some  sugar  to  them, 
and  add  this  compound  when  in  a  state  of  fer- 
mentation to  the  mashed  potatoes  instead  of  the 
brewer's  yeast. 

Having  procured  or  made  the  yeast,  the  next  thing 
is  to  put  the  flour  in  a  large  tin  milk-pan,  make  a 
hole  in  the  centre  of  the  soft  white  heap,  and  pour  in 
a  small  capful  of  yeast  mixed  with  a  large  cupful  of 
warm  water.  A  little  of  the  flour  is  stirred  in  to  this 
liquid  so  as  to  make  it  rather  more  of  a  paste,  and 
then  the  whole  is  covered  with  a  clean  cloth  and  set 
to  -work  during  the  whole  night.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  put  it  in  too  hot  a  place,  as  it  will  be- 
come dry  and  crusty  in  the  morning,  and  make  heavy, 
tasteless  bread.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  tempera- 
ture be  too  low,  the  flour  will  be  dull  and  cold,  the 
mixture  will  not  have  penetrated  it,  and  the  bread 
will  not  rise.  But,  supposing  that  the  happy  medium 
has  been  hit,  and  that  the  gas  contained  in  the  yeast 
has  made  its  subtle  way  among  the  flour,  then  more 
water  must  be  added  by  degrees  and  a  very  little 
salt.  The  whole  mass  should  then  be  lightly  kneaded 
by  very  clean  hands,  and  when  it  has  attained  a  cer- 
tain elastic  consistency  it  should  be  quickly  cut  into 
separate  portions,  dropped  into  well-floured  tins  (only 
half  fill  them  with  the  dough),  which  must  instantly 
be  placed  in  the  oven.  The  oven  should  be  fairly 
hot  to  begin  with,  and  its  heat  increased  until  the 


LESS,  v.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  41 

end.  From  time  to  time  a  clean  knife  should  be 
thrust  into  the  loaf ;  if  it  comes  out  with  a  tarnish  on 
the  bright  blade,  as  though  it  had  been  breathed  upon, 
then  the  bread  is  not  sufficiently  baked,  and  there  is 
no  use  in  taking  it  out  of  the  oven  until  the  knife 
can  be  readily  drawn  out  with  a  perfectly  undimmed 
surface.  The  real  art  of  bread-making  consists  in  the 
dough  not  being  too  stiff  at  first  to  resist  the  entrance 
of  the  gas,  nor  too  soft  to  permit  the  gas  to  pass 
through  it  quickly.  It  should  also  be  sufficiently 
kneaded  so  that  the  gas  may  become  well  distributed 
throughout  the  mass,  yet  not  over-kneaded,  in  which 
case  a  good  deal  of  it  will  have  escaped,  and  the 
bread  will  consequently  be  heavy. 

The  difference  between  biscuits  and  bread  is  that 
there  is  no  yeast  in  the  composition  of  the  former; 
they  are  also  for  the  most  part  unleavened  and  very 
highly  dried.  Though  valuable  as  a  temporary  substi- 
tute for  bread,  they  can  never  be  so  wholesome  from 
the  absence  of  the  water  which  is  absorbed  in  the 
process  of  drying  or  baking.  Biscuits  should  invari- 
ably be  taken  with  ever  so  small  a  quantity  of  liquid, 
for  by  themselves  they  either  absorb  too  much  fluid 
from  the  juices  of  the  stomach,  and  so  produce  in- 
digestion, or  they  fail  to  obtain  as  much  fluid  as  they 
require  from  those  sources,  and  therefore  remain  a 
long  time  undigested.  Cakes  are  made  by  the  substi- 
tution of  soda  or  carbonic  acid  for  yeast,  and  the 
addition  of  sugar,  fat,  and  eggs.  Of  all  these  mate- 
rials the  sugar  is  the  wholesomest  and  should  be  the 


42  FIRST  LESSON'S  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

most  freely  used.     The  other  ingredients  are  more 
difficult  of  digestion. 

Before  leaving  the  subject  of  bread,  it  will  be  as 
well  to  notice  the  extraordinary  difference  between 
batches  of  bread.  It  is  no  reason  because  a  house- 
hold receives  excellent  bread  one  week — either  from 
the  baker's  shop  or  its  own  kitchen — that  the  next 
week's  baking  will  not  be  heavy  and  bad.  This  is 
because  we  trust  so  entirely  to  the  good  old  rule  of 
thumb  in  our  kitchens,  scorning  to  make  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  oven  a  certainty  by  means  of  a  thermo- 
meter. Half,  and  more  than  half,  of  the  hard  baking 
and  the  over  or  under  boiling  and  frying  with  which 
we  are  afflicted  arises  from  the  extraordinary  prejudice 
which  exists  against  the  daily  use  of  this  indispen- 
sable little  instrument.  It  is  the  only  reliable  way  of 
making  sure  of  the  oven,  or  the  water,  or  the  fat 
being  of  exactly  the  right  temperature ;  and  yet  what 
cook  who  "  respects  herself "  would  at  present  deign 
to  use  a  thermometer,  still  less  even  a  charming  little 
contrivance  which  has  been  invented  specially  for  her 
use,  and  is  called  a  frimometer  ? 

But  to  touch  upon  some  of  the  other  uses  of  flour. 
We  are  apt  to  look  upon  macaroni  as  a  luxury  for 
the  tables  of  the  rich,  when  it  is  really  so  low  in  price 
that  it  is  within  the  reach  of  those  who  have  any 
choice  at  all  as  to  what  they  shall  eat.  It  is  considered 
a  foreign  composition,  unworthy  to  take  a  place  among 
the  more  solid  flesh-formers  dear  to  the  heart  of  the 
Englishman  ;  but  if  he  understood  what  it  is  made 


LESS,  v.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  43 

from,  he  might  perhaps  modify  his  contempt  for  one 
of  the  most  nourishing  and  wholesome  forms  in  which 
he  can  eat  wheaten  flour.  Macaroni,  then,  is  made 
by  the  simplest  imaginable  process,  and  there  is 
no  reason  in  the  world  why  its  manufacture  should 
not  be  carried  on  in-  England,  as  indeed  it  is.  The 
finest  wheaten  flour  is  made  into  a  peculiar  smooth 
paste  or  dough,  and  afterwards  driven  through  a  cylin- 
der which  cuts  it  into  ribands  or  tubes.  Wheaten 
flour  contains,  of  course,  precisely  the  same  amount  of 
nourishment,  whether  it  be  made  into  bread  or  into  the 
pasta  from  which  macaroni  is  cut ;  but  whereas  bread 
can  scarcely  be  cooked  again  (except  as  toast),  there 
are  many  ways  in  which  macaroni  can  be  dressed  so 
as  to  form  a  delicious  food.  Simply  boiled  with  milk 
and  a  little  sugar  it  would  be  a  wholesome  and  agree- 
able change  in  children's  diet,  and  we  must  remember 
that  for  children  who  are  born  with  soft  bones — that 
is,  with  too  little  phosphate  of  lime  in  their  bones — a 
diet  of  wheat  will  tend,  more  than  anything  else,  to 
form  this  deposit.  When  I  say  wheat,  I  include  maca- 
roni therefore,  and  semolina,  which  is  the  very  small 
grain  left  after  grinding  wheat  in  a  coarse  mill.  Such 
a  mode  of  grinding  gives  but  a  small  proportion  of 
flour,  and  a  certain  larger  residue  of  coarse  flour  or 
fine  grains,  and  these  grains  are  known  as  "  semolina." 
They  are  chiefly  obtained  from  the  most  nourishing 
of  all  the  wheats,  the  red-grained  wheat  grown  in 
Southern  Europe,  and  especially  in  the  Danubian 
Principalities. 

OF  THE 


44  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  PART  n. 

LESSON  VI. 

POTATOES  AND  OTHER  VEGETABLES. 

ALTHOUGH  it  is  rather  a  departure  from  the  plan  I 
pursued  in  the  First  Part  to  speak  in  this  lesson 
about  potatoes,  it  is  natural  to  me  to  do  it,  because, 
so  far  as  my  practical  experience — which  was  once 
/Vz-experience,  remember — goes,  it  is  almost  as  difficult 
to  boil  a  potato  properly  as  to  bake  good  bread. 
In  the  first  place,  we  have  one  of  the  highest  chemical 
authorities  on  our  side  for  saying  that  on  both  whole- 
some and  economical  grounds  potatoes  should  always 
be  boiled  in  their  skins.  They  do  not  look  quite  so 
well  if  they  have  to  be  peeled  afterwards,  but  not  only 
is  the  actual  material  wasted  by  the  process  of  peel- 
ing— especially  where  there  are  no  pigs  to  eat  the 
peelings — but  a  great  deal  of  the  starchy  substance, 
which  is  exactly  what  makes  the  potato  so  nourishing, 
is  wasted.  In  roasted  or  baked  potatoes,  which  have 
been  peeled  before  cooking,  the  loss  in  weight  from 
the  skin  and  the  drying  is  actually  a  quarter  of 
the  whole.  It  is  curious  to  learn  that  potatoes 
which  come  to  us  from  the  bog  lands  of  Ireland 
are  far  less  watery  and  produce  more  starch  than 
those  which  are  grown  on  the  dry,  light  soils  of 
Yorkshire.  This  innate  dryness  is  one  reason  why 
the  Irish  potato  contains  so  much  more  nourishment 


LESS,  vi.]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  45 

than  an  English  one.  The  potato  was  first  grown  by 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh  in  his  garden  at  Youghal,  in  Ire- 
land, and  it  is  not  much  more  than  a  century  since 
its  cultivation  became  general  in  England.  The  first 
potatoes  grown  in  England  came  from  a  ship  wrecked 
on  Formby  Point,  near  Liverpool.  The  tubers  were 
planted  by  chance  on  the  soil  close  by,  which  closely 
resembled  that  of  Ireland,  and  no  part  of  their  new 
home  has  ever  suited  them  better.  The  potato, 
though,  as  we  have  seen,  of  a  certain  appreciable 
value  as  a  flesh-former,  is  not  to  be  depended  upon 
entirely  as  a  force-producer,  for  the  proportion  of 
water  in  100  parts  is  75*2.  Next  to  water,  its  pe- 
culiarly nourishing  starch  is  most  largely  represented, 
and  stands  at  15*5.  From  this  starch  also  a  pasta 
can  be  made  which  gives  a  fair  macaroni,  but  of 
course  the  advantages  of  the  wheaten  paste  would 
be  absent. 

In  ordinary  kitchens  where  a  steamer  is  used,  the 
process  of  boiling  a  potato  is  easy  enough,  and  that 
dry  mealiness  dear  to  the  heart  of  a  good  cook  can 
be  reckoned  upon.  But  if  only  a  saucepan  be  attain- 
able, then,  having  well  washed — nay,  even  scrubbed 
and  brushed — your  potatoes,  put  them  into  it  with 
cold  water ;  add  a  little  salt  when  the  water  boils ; 
at  first  it  should  only  be  allowed  to  boil  slowly,  but 
it  may  boil  as  fast  as  you  like  during  the  last  five 
minutes.  Some  varieties  of  the  potato  can  be  cooked 
much  sooner  than  others  ;  there  is  often  the  difference 
between  them  of  twenty  minutes  and  three-quarters 


46  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

of  an  hour.  From  time  to  time  they  must  be  tried 
with  a  fork,  which  should  go  in  freely  when  they  are 
sufficiently  boiled.  The  potatoes  being  now  cooked 
enough,  pour  off  as  much  water  as  can  possibly  be 
got  rid  of.  Sprinkle  a  little  more  salt,  take  off  the 
lid  of  the  saucepan  and  set  it  on  again  in  such  a 
manner  that  the  steam  can  escape,  but  keep  the  sauce- 
pan for  a  few  minutes  on  the  oven  to  dry  the  potatoes 
thoroughly.  The  saucepan  should  be  lightly  shaken 
from  time  to  time  to  prevent  the  potatoes  sticking  to 
the  bottom.  Then  serve  either  in  a  wooden  bowl, 
with  a  clean  cloth  or  a  napkin,  or  else  in  a  dish  with 
perforated  holes  in  the  cover  so  that  the  vapour  can 
escape.  If  potatoes  form  the  principal  diet  of  a  family, 
eggs  should  be  added  where  practicable,  and  milk,  or 
dripping,  or  any  sort  of  fat,  as  the  potato  itself  is  very 
deficient  in  albumen  and  fat. 

Next  to  the  potato,  the  cabbage  is  the  most  widely 
cultivated  of  all  vegetables,  yet  it  is  far  inferior  to 
the  others  in  the  nutriment  contained  in  a  given 
weight.  In  point  of  value  the  parsnip  ranks  next 
to  the  potato  as  a  flesh-former,  and  possesses  six 
per  cent,  of  carbon.  Parsnips  are  followed  closely  by 
carrots  and  onions,  though  the  latter  are  principally 
used  as  a  relish.  But  all  vegetables  are  chiefly  valu- 
able for  their  anti-scorbutic  properties,  and  as  a 
flavouring  for  insipid  food.  Lentils  are  particularly 
nutritious,  and  the  food  sold  under  the  name  of  "Reva- 
lenta  Arabica"  is  only  the  meal  of  the  lentil  after 
being,  freed  from  its  indigestible  outer  skin.  In  peas 


LESS,  vi.]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  47 


we  find  a  great  deal  of  caseine ;  hence,  in  an  analy- 
tical table  they  rank  next  to  wheat  as  a  flesh  and 
force-producer,  whereas  we  should  find  the  other 
vegetables  relegated  under  the  head  of  "  Non-nitro- 
genous substances,"  that  is  to  say,  substances  which, 
taken  by  themselves  without  milk,  butter,  or  fat  of 
any  kind,  are  absolutely  incapable  of  producing  either 
flesh  or  force.  In  Ireland  it  is  the  milk  taken  with 
the  potato  which  makes  it  so  nourishing.  If  potatoes 
were  eaten  quite  alone,  the  consumer  would  need  to 
eat  an  enormous  quantity  to  keep  himself  in  any  sort 
of  condition,  and  he  would  never  be  able  to  do  any 
amount  of  real  hard  work  in  the  open  air. 

It  is  quite  certain  that  sufficient  value  is  not 
attached  in  England  to  the  importance  of  the  culti- 
vation of  vegetables.  If  a  few  leeks  or  sweet  herbs, 
a  row  of  potatoes,  or  a  dozen  cabbages,  were  planted 
in  many  a  tiny  spot  beside  a  cottage  door,  which  spot 
at  present  is  but  a  puddle  or  a  down-trodden  mass  01 
caked  mud,  the  hungry  mouths  inside  would  stand  a 
better  chance  of  being  filled.  When  a  poor  woman 
has  to  go  with  her  pence  in  her  hand  and  buy  every 
onion  or  potato  or  sprig  of  thyme  which  she  wants 
to  improve  the  flavour  of  the  family  meal,  the  chances 
are  she  will  look  upon  them — and  very  justly,  too — as 
luxurious  additions  to  the  bill  of  fare,  and  do  without 
them  as  much  as  possible.  All  over  France  the 
poorest  peasant  has  her  "  flavourings "  close  to  her 
hand ;  and  it  is  difficult  to  over-estimate  the  boon 
which  a  few  common  vegetables  and  herbs  are,  when 


48  FfRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  IT. 

used  to  assist  in  converting  a  scrap  of  bacon,  a  bone, 
and  a  little  pea-meal  into  a  warm,  comforting,  nou- 
rishing mid-day  meal. 

Mr.  Ruskin  attaches  great  importance  to  the  culti- 
vation of  the  land — the  making  the  best  of  every  inch 
of  our  own  native  soil ;  but  I  fear  he  wants  to  try 
experiments,  and  grow  all  sorts  of  curious  things  in 
every  conceivable  part  of  the  British  Isles,  whereas  I 
only  confine  my  ambition  to  those  little  shabby  nooks 
and  odds  and  ends  of  ground  which  lurk  around  stray 
cottages,  whose  occupants  evidently  prefer  sitting  in 
the  tap-room  of  the  "  Chequers"  to  digging  for  an  hour 
in  a  scrap  of  garden  morning  and  evening.  Perhaps, 
if,  in  time,  we  are  able  to  show  the  working  man 
how  enormously  his  culinary  comfort  can  be  increased 
by  a  little  vegetable  flavouring,  he  may  take  to  plant- 
ing and  cultivating  even  a  square  rood  of  ground,  if 
that  be  all  he  can  call  his  own.  I  say  nothing  of 
the  gain  to  health,  for  that  is  so  easily  ascertained  by 
his  own  or  his  neighbour's  experience.  The  seeds 
of  common  vegetables  are  very  easily  procured — in 
fact,  they  can  almost  be  had  for  the  asking ;  and,  at 
all  events,  one  day's  beer-money  would  go  a  long 
way  towards  keeping  a  family  in  onions  for  a  year  if 
laid  out  in  seed.  A  little  soup  or  stew  thus  flavoured 
without  extra  expense,  would  surely  be  a  vast  gain  on 
the  hunch  of  dry  bread  and  mug  of  weak,  cold  coffee, 
which  I  have  often  seen  a  labourer  eating  for  his 
dinner.  Then  there  only  remains  the  trouble  to  be 
considered ;  and  a  lazy  man  will  have  to  make  twice 


LESS,  vi.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  49 

as  much  exertion  in  the  long  run  to  keep  body  and 
soul  together. 

I  repeat:  it  is  not  actual  money  which  is  abso- 
lutely wanting  in  such  cases.  It  is  that  the  few  pence 
are  generally  laid  out  in  the  most  improvident  way — 
in  a  way  which  becomes  gross  extravagance  when  it 
is  contrasted  with  what  the  same  pittance  would  pro- 
duce if  properly  managed.  I  have  no  hope  of  this 
little  book,  or  any  other  book,  great  or  small,  working 
a  miraculous  and  thorough  reform,  and  converting 
every  cottage  in  the  country  into  a  smiling  abode 
of  peace  and  plenty.  What  I  do  aim  at  and  look 
forward  to  is,  first,  to  arouse  attention  to  the  subject  in 
those  whose  social  rank  is  above  that  of  the  hand-to- 
mouth  working  man  ;  and  next,  to  induce  rich  people 
to  take  as  much  trouble  and  spend  as  much  money 
in  providing  their  servants  and  workmen  with  the 
opportunity  of  learning  how  to  cook  their  food,  as 
they  now  do  in  teaching  them  and  their  children  to 
read  and  write. 

Mr.  Ruskin,  in  his  "  Fors  Clavigera,"  insists  very 
strongly  that  in  his  model  farm,  his  land  bought  out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  "  St.  George's  Fund,"  every 
girl  shall  be  taught  "  at  a  proper  age  to  cook  all 
ordinary  food  exquisitely."  But  I  would  go  a  step 
beyond,  and  I  would  have  every  boy  taught  also.  I 
don't  know  about  the  cooking  exquisitely !  I  should 
be  satisfied,  at  first,  if  every  boy  and  girl  could  be 
taught  to  cook  even  a  little.  For  a  knowledge  of 
cooking,  at  all  events  in  its  simplest  form,  appears  to 

£ 


50  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 


me  to  be  every  whit  as  necessary  for  a  man,  if  he 
is  to  move  about  the  world  at  all,  as  it  is  for  a  girl. 
If  the  man  does  not  move  about,  and  is  fortunate 
enough  to  marry  a  girl  trained  and  taught  cooking 
either  at  Mr.  Ruskin's  model  farm  or  at  the  National 
School  of  Cookery,  then  he  may  forget,  or  lay  aside, 
his  culinary  lore  as  quickly  as  he  pleases  !  But  if  he 
emigrates,  or  enlists  as  a  soldier,  or  does  any  of  the 
hundred  and  one  things  which  men  are  obliged  to 
do  in  these  busy  days,  the  chances  are  that  he  will 
find  ever  so  slight  a  knowledge  of  cooking  a  very 
great  boon  and  blessing  to  him. 

One  thing  is  very  puzzling  to  me,  though  I  know 
not  why  it  should  be  brought  in  apropos  of  vegetables. 
It  is  the  staunch  conservatism,  where  food  or  cooking 
is  concerned,  of  the  working  classes  of  England.  In 
politics  they  are  very  often  to  a  man,  nay,  even  to  a 
woman,  advanced  Liberals,  to  say  the  least  of  it.  They 
are  much  more  ready  to  advocate  and  adopt  sweep- 
ing changes  in  things  of  which,  after  all,  they  cannot 
know  a  great  deal ;  but  they  distrust  anyone  who 
suggests  that  they  could  improve  the  matters  which 
lie  close  around  them,  and  with  which  they  are  at 
least  familiar.  "  My  ould  grandmother  did  it  that 
way,  and  she  lived  till  ninety,"  is  an  unanswerable 
argument  against  making  the  scrap  of  meat  into  a 
pot-au-feu,  and  adding  vegetables  and  meat  to  it, 
instead  of  frizzling  and  burning  the  same  scanty 
portion  of  meat  in  a  greasy  frying-pan  over  a  smoky 
fire.  I  feel  persuaded,  therefore,  that  the  great 


LESS,  vii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  $i 


reform  in  cooking  and  economic  management  of  our 
food-material  must  begin  in  the  classes  above  the 
working  man.  When  he  sees  and  learns  by  experi- 
ence that  an  ounce  of  meat,  properly  dressed,  will  go 
further  in  actual  nourishment  and  strength-imparting 
qualities  than  two  ounces  heated  in  his  old  barbarous 
method,  he  may  perhaps  be  induced  to  consent  to 
his  "missis  "  or  the  "gals  "  being  "learned"  how  to 
cook.  My  own  private  hope—  and  I  would  almost 
say  expectation — is,  that  an  increase  in  the  artisan's 
or  the  working  man's  comfort  at  home, — such  comfort 
as  better  cooked  food  and  more  of  it  must  surely 
oring, — will  lead  to  his  wages  finding  their  way 
oftener  into  the  butcher's  shop  than  the  public-house. 
A  well-fed  man  is  very  seldom  a  drunkard  ;  and  it 
may  be  that  in  the  spread  and  development  of  an 
attempt  at  culinary  reform,  two  birds  may,  all  un- 
consciously, be  killed  with  one  stone.  In  improving 
cottage  comforts  we  may  perhaps  strike  a  great  blow 
(with  our  frying-pans  and  soup-kettles  !)  at  the  shining 
glasses  and  quart  pots  of  the  gin-palace.  God  grant 
that  it  be  so  ! 


LESSON  VII. 

MODES  OF  PREPARING  BROTH  OR  SOUP    FROM    BEEF. 

THE  reason  I  have  placed  this  subject  in  a  separate 
lesson  is  because  of  its  enormous  importance  in 
the  sick-room.  More  delicate  children  are  reared 

E    2 


52  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

into  health  and  strength,  and  more  lives  are  saved, 
by  good  beef-tea  than  most  of  us  have  any  idea 
of.  This  is  the  more  extraordinary  when  we  re- 
member that  even  the  strongest  and  best  beef-tea 
contains  an  almost  infinitesimal  amount  of  actual 
nourishment.  So  that  it  is  not  to  its  capacity  for 
supplying  to  the  wasted  and  feeble  human  frame 
either  strength  or  nourishment  that  we  must  attribute 
its  wonderful  efficacy.  If  the  strongest  beef-tea  be 
analysed,  the  meat  would  be  found  to  have  lost  in 
the  process  of  turning  into  liquid  nearly  all  its  albu- 
men, fibrin e,  and  caseine.  In  other  words,  it  would 
have  parted  with  its  most  important  constituents ; 
and  we  might  suppose  it  therefore  to  be  valueless 
to  the  human  system.  But  Experience  steps  in  where 
Chemistry  stops  and  shakes  her  head,  and  Experience 
declares  that  well-made  beef-tea  possesses  a  reparative 
power  on  a  weakened  digestion  which  nothing  else  in 
the  world  except  milk  can  come  near.  It  may  not 
actually  contain  all  the  elements  of  nourishment  within 
itself,  as  milk  does,  but  it  is  a  wonderful  assimilator. 
It  soothes  and  repairs  and  collects  the  enfeebled 
organs  and  juices,  and  enables  them  to  return  to 
their  proper  functions.  Therefore  we  say  that  beef-tea 
is  nourishing,  when  it  is  not  in  the  least  nourishing 
in  itself,  but  it  has  the  power  of  making  ready  for 
other  substances  to  nourish. 

Although  every  sort  of  meat  can  be  made  into 
soup  or  broth,  bee  makes  the  best  and  wholesomest. 
For  one  reason  of  this  we  must  search  in  the  fibrin  e, 


LESS.  vii.J        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  53 

which  holds  more  red  juice  than  that  of  any  other 
meat,  and  it  is  this  red  juice  which  we  particularly 
want.  Everybody  knows  that  the  leanest  meat  is  the 
best  for  soup-making ;  the  least  particle  of  fat  is  out 
of  place  in  broth  or  soups,  and  indeed  renders  it 
absolutely  unwholesome  as  well  as  nauseous. 

In  many  emergencies  beef-tea  has  to  be  prepared 
at  almost  a  moment's  notice,  and  then  I  would  re- 
commend that  the  meat  be  as  thoroughly  freed  from 
fat  as  possible,  chopped  finely,  and  soaked  in  its  own 
weight  of  cold  water  for  ten  minutes  or  so.  Then 
heat  it  slowly  to  boiling-point,  let  it  boil  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  and  you  will  have  a  strong  and  deli- 
cious beef-tea,  better  than  can  be  obtained  by  boiling 
in  the  ordinary  way  for  many  hours.  Another  method 
is  to  place  the  finely-chopped  meat  in  a  large,  clean 
jam-pot,  with  a  little  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
The  mouth  of  the  vessel  should  be  closed  by  means 
of  a  tightly-tied  bladder  or  a  thick  paste  all  over  it, 
as  if  it  were  a  meat-pudding,  and  placed  in  a  sauce- 
pan half  full  of  cold  water.  The  saucepan  should 
then  be  covered  with  its  own  lid  and  set  upon  or  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly.  If  there  be  no 
time  to  let  the  beef- tea  or  essence  in  the  jam-pot  get 
cold,  it  must  be  skimmed  as  clearly  as  possible,  and 
any  extra  globules  of  fat  floating  on  the  surface  re- 
moved by  a  careful  application  of  white  blotting 
paper.  Some  people  do  not  add  any  water  at  all  to 
the  cut-up  beef,  under  the  impression  that  the  essence 
must  be  stronger  without  the  addition.  But  my  indi- 


54  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

vidual  experience  teaches  me  that  whereas  the  differ- 
ence in  nutritive  value  is  very  slight,  sick  people  do 
not  like  the  beef-tea  thus  prepared,  and  will  not  take 
it  so  readily  as  when  it  has  been  made  after  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  It  is  necessary,  however,  to  state 
that  the  process  I  am  now  going  to  describe  cannot  be 
hurried,  and  that  it  is  therefore  imperative  to  have 
one  day's  notice  when  beef-tea  made  in  this  way  is 
required. 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  the  leanest  beef  to 
be  procured,  add  one  quart  of  water,  and  two  shank 
bones  of  mutton,  which  bones  should  be  well  washed 
before  using.  A  pinch  of  salt,  and  another  pinch  of 
grated  lemon-peel,  or  a  tiny  bit  of  the  peel  itself,  are  all 
I  should  add,  for  a  sick  person's  throat  is  generally 
too  tender  for  pepper,  and  his  palate  too  delicate  for 
anything  like  flavouring  or  sauces.  The  lean  meat 
and  shank  bones  are  to  be  put  into  a  saucepan,  whose 
white  enamelled  lining  should  be  daintily  and  scrupu- 
lously clean,  and  the  saucepan,  with  its  lid  fitting  very 
close  indeed,  set  by  the  side  of  a  moderately  good 
fire  to  simmer  slowly  the  whole  day  long.  It  must 
never  approach  boiling,  and  yet  the  action  of  fire 
upon  its  contents  should  be  decided,  though  gentle. 
At  the  last  moment  before  shutting  up  for  the  night, 
strain  the  soup  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  into  a  clean 
basin,  and  in  the  morning  you  should  find,  beneath  a 
preserving  scum  of  fat,  about  a  pint  of  clear,  solid, 
beef  jelly,  which  can  either  be  eaten  cold,  or  warmed, 
without  the  addition  of  one  drop  of  water,  into  a  deli- 


LESS,  vii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  55 

cious  <r/#z;z-tasting  cup  of  beef-tea.  In  cold  weather 
double  the  quantity  may  be  made,  but  in  that  case 
it  should  be  poured  into  two  basins,  and  the  fat  left 
to  hermetically  seal  the  second  basin  until  it  be  wanted 
in  its  turn  for  use.  In  hot  weather  the  beef-tea  should 
be  prepared  fresh  every  day  for  the  next  day's  con- 
sumption, I  have  seen  beef-tea  rendered  perfectly 
colourless  and  white  by  repeated  strainings  through 
fine  muslin  sieves,  but  I  do  not  know  that  this  is  any 
particular  advantage. 

In  some  cases,  such  as  the  terrible  state  of  the 
intestines  after  typhoid  fever,  beef-tea  is  no  use  as  a 
reparative  agent  when  prepared  after  the  above  fashion. 
The  meat  should  then  not  be  cooked  at  all,  only 
cut  up  as  lean  and  fresh  and  full  of  red  juice  as  pos- 
sible, and  soaked  for  ten  or  twelve  hours  in  a  small 
quantity  of  cold  water.  This  will  give  a  liquid  which 
has  never  been  submitted  to  the  action  of  fire,  and 
which  looks  and  tastes  like  the  gravy  of  under-done 
meat,  but  it  is  of  the  highest  reparative  value  to  the 
lacerated  stomach.  A  judicious  nurse  will  take  care 
that  her  patient  never  sees  this  sort  of  beef-tea  until 
he  has  learned  to  drink  it  freely,  which  he  will  do  if 
not  at  first  disgusted  by  the  sight  of  the  clear  red  fluid. 

I  have  dwelt  thus  minutely  on  the  value  and  process 
of  making  beef-tea  because  I  believe  it  to  be  the 
strongest  resource  of  the  culinary  art  in  sickness ;  but 
the  proper  preparation  of  soup  is  of  great  importance 
in  all  households.  It  is  at  once  an  economical,  whole- 
some and  savoury  form  of  nourishing  food  ;  yet,  to 


56  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  u. 


many  a  plain  cook,  soup,  unless  she  has  costly  ma- 
terials bought  expressly  for  its  manufacture,  merely 
means  greasy  hot  water  flavoured  by  a  soup$on  of  plate- 
washing  !  No  soup  should  be  used  the  same  day  it  is 
made,  on  account  of  the  impossibility  of  removing  all 
the  scum  and  fat.  But,  supposing  that  a  scrag  end  of 
mutton,  or  the  trimmings  of  cutlets,  or  bones  with  a 
fair  amount  of  meat  left  on,  should  have  been  sim- 
mering gently  all  the  preceding  day,  and  allowed  to 
get  cold  at  night,  so  that  the  layer  of  fat  (which  can 
be  used  for  other  purposes)  is  easily  removed,  then  we 
should  proceed  this  way,  always  imagining  it  is  wanted 
for  the  use  of  a  poor  and  economical  family.  To  the 
clear,  fat-free  soup,  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  well-washed 
pearl  barley  or  rice — and  we  must  remember  that  the 
inferior  and  cheaper  kind  of  rice  does  just  as  well  as 
the  best  for  this  purpose — a  few  cleaned  and  cut-up 
vegetables,  a  little  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  a  sprig  or 
two  of  herbs  tied  together,  a  little  pea-meal,  any  cold 
potatoes  left  from  yesterday's  dinner,  and  the  whole 
allowed  to  simmer  together,  without  removing  the 
remains  of  the  meat  and  bones,  until  it  be  wanted, 
great  care  being  taken  that  it  should  not  boil  away. 
The  result  of  this  simmering  ought  to  be  a  nice,  warm, 
comforting,  <r/#z;/-tasting  basin  of  broth,  very  different 
to  the  weak,  greasy  liquid  which  results  from  a  hastier 
preparation.  It  is  a  very  common  mistake  with  all 
cooks,  except  the  very  best,  to  put  too  much  water 
in  the  first  instance  to  their  materials  for  soup,  and 
so  produce  a  good  deal  of  weak,  tasteless  meat-tea, 


LESS,  vii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  57 

instead  of  a  smaller  quantity  of  strong,  good  soup. 
English  people  do  not  use  macaroni  half  so  freely  as 
they  might,  for,  apart  from  its  nutritive  value  as  offer- 
ing such  a  pure  form  of  wheaten  flour,  it  is  exceed- 
ingly cheap.  Boiled  with  ever  so  little  soup  made  in 
the  way  just  described  (before  the  addition  of  the  rice 
or  vegetables),  it  would  form  an  excellent  and  whole- 
some change  to  the  smallest  bill  of  fare. 

All  cooks  prefer  beef  to  anything  else  for  making 
soup,  but  a  very  nourishing  and  delicate  broth  can  be 
made  from  two  parts  of  veal  and  one  part  of  lean  beef, 
or  from  chicken  or  rabbit,  though  the  latter  is  not 
advisable  for  sick  people.  Everyone  knows  the  value 
of  good,  fat-cleared  mutton  broth  such  as  I  have  just 
described,  but  there  is  a  good  deal  of  truth  in  the 
instinct  which  leads  the  sick  person  to  prefer  beef- tea, 
and  the  healthy  labouring  man  to  buy  a  couple  of 
pounds  of  beef  instead  of  double  the  quantity  of  any 
other  meat.  Beef  contains  most  iron,  which  in  the 
state  of  oxide  is  one  of  the  chief  constituents  of  the 
blood  :  and  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  the  nutriment 
of  all  carnivorous  animals  is  derived  from  the  blood 
originally.  A  diet,  therefore,  to  be  strengthening, 
must  contain  a  certain  amount  of  iron,  and  we  do 
not  obtain  this  so  readily  from  any  other  meat  as 
from  beef. 


58  FtRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  11. 


LESSON  VIII. 

FUEL     AND      FIRE. 

THE  object  of  cooking  is  to  render  the  flesh  of  ani- 
mals and  vegetable  substances  easier  of  mastication, 
and  therefore  easier  of  digestion.  How  this  object 
is  carried  out  in  most  English  households  let  each 
declare  for  himself.  And  yet  there  is  nothing  in  the 
world  so  simple  and  so  certain  in  its  effects  as  the 
action  of  fire  upon  food,  if  only  we  can  learn  to  apply 
and  to  regulate  that  action  according  to  certain  laws. 
I  propose  therefore  to  devote  a  short  lesson  to  each 
of  the  simplest  processes  of  cooking. 

But  before  doing  so  I  may  be  permitted  here  to 
say  a  word  or  two  about  the  management  of  the 
kitchen  fire.  Few  ladies,  or  even  those  servants  whose 
duties  lie  entirely  upstairs,  and  who  see  a  bright  or 
blazing  fire  every  time  they  go  into  the  kitchen,  can 
have  any  idea  how  difficult  a  thing  it  is  to  keep  up  a 
good  fire  all  day.  When  I  say  a  "  good  fire/'  I  mean 
a  good  cooking  fire — a  clear,  bright  fire,  which,  with- 
out being  a  roaring  furnace,  shall  yet  be  equal  to  any 
emergency.  It  can  only  be  managed  by  constant 
small  additions  of  coal,  unless  a  great  deal  of  cooking 
is  imminent,  and  then  of  course  more  fuel  must  be 
added  each  time.  But  a  really  good  cook  will  so  con- 
trive as  to  have  a  small,  bright  fire  all  day  long,  even 


LESS,  viii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  59 

when  she  is  not  actually  cooking.  Whenever  I  hear 
that  a  bit  of  bread  cannot  be  toasted,  or  a  cup  of  soup 
warmed,  because  the  fire  has  "just  been  made  up,"  I 
know  what  has  happened.  The  cook  has  allowed 
the  fire  ,to  burn  down  to  the  last  bar  of  the  grate, 
and  then  she  has  emptied  half  a  coal-scuttle  on  the 
few  live  embers.  For  about  two  hours,  therefore,  it 
is  useless  to  expect  any  cooking  from  that  fire,  and  it 
will  be  fortunate  if  no  sudden  call  be  made  for  its 
services.  Now,  if  the  cook  had  watched  her  fire,  and 
had  kept  it  supplied  from  time  to  time  with  small 
portions  of  coal,  this  emergency  would  never  ha.ve 
arisen.  She  could  screw  up  her  fireplace  to  very 
small  dimensions  and  yet  keep  an  excellent  fire,  fit  for 
any  unexpected  demand.  It  is  doubtful  whether, 
when  she  acts  on  the  momentary  impulse  of  trying  to 
make  up  for  lost  time,  a  cook  has  any  idea  of  the 
mischief  she  does.  Letting  the  kitchen  fire,  burn 
low  and  then  flinging  on  coals,  is  not  only  an  incon- 
venient, but  it  is  a  recklessly  extravagant  proceeding. 
The  fire  and  fireplace  have  become  thoroughly  chilled, 
and  the  fresh  fuel  evaporates  almost  entirely  in  the 
form  of  smoke  for  a  long  time  before  the  remainder  is 
in  a  state  to  use  for  cooking. 

If  this  rule  of  preventing  waste  by  constantly  add- 
ing small  portions  of  fuel  were  better  understood  and 
acted  upon,  cooks  would  not  have  such  a  bitter  preju- 
dice against  the  use  of  coke.  It  is,  of  course,  abso- 
lutely valueless  to  a  half-extinguished  fire,  especially 
when,  instead  of  being  put  on  in  small  quantities,  it 


60  fIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

is  flung  on  in  shovelfuls.  But  to  an  already  clear, 
well-established  fire,  nothing  is  so  satisfactory  or 
economical  an  addition  as  a  few  lumps  of  coke 
judiciously  put  on.  If  frying  or  broiling  is  to  be 
done,  the  fire  cannot  be  too  clear,  and  coke,  if  it  be 
properly  managed,  will  give  the  clearest  fire  in  the 
world,  but  then  it  requires  a  certain  amount  of  intelli- 
gence and  willingness  on  the  part  of  the  cook  to  use  it 
to  advantage.  When  I  use  the  word  cook,  I  do  not 
mean  only  a  regular  servant,  but  any  young  woman 
who  is  acting,  for  perhaps  the  first  time  in  her  life,  the 
part  of  cook  in  her  husband's,  or  father's,  or  brother's 
house.  She  will  find  her  culinary  labours  much  sim- 
plified if  she  keeps  the  needs  of  the  kitchen  fire 
always  before  her  mind.  I  don't  mean  to  say  that 
such  a  one  may  not  what  is  called  "make  up"  her 
fire,  and  leave  it  untouched  between  breakfast  and 
dinner,  and  dinner  and  tea,  because  the  chances  are 
a  hundred  to  one  she  will  not  need  it,  and  her  duties 
probably  call  her  elsewhere  ;  but  a  cook  in  a  house 
where  there  is  a  family,  and  perhaps  sickness,  or  even 
very  young  children,  ought  never  for  one  moment  to 
forget  or  neglect  her  fire  all  through  the  day. 

I  could  give  her  scientific  reasons  about  radiation, 
and  use  many  long  words  to  prove  to  her  why,  if  she 
keeps  her  grate  well  blacked  arid  polished,  she  will 
find  her  fire  burns  better  and  gives  out  more  heat,  but 
I  prefer  to  appeal  to  everybody's  experience  and  com- 
mon sense  if  such  warmth  and  brilliancy  be  not  the 
result  of  a  beautifully  clean  and  shining  fireplace. 


LESS,  viii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  61 

To  Sir  Benjamin  Thomson  (an  English  knight  and 
an  American  by  birth,  but  better  known  to  us  by  his 
Bavarian  title  of  Count  Rumford)  we  owe  perhaps 
more  improvement  in  the  economical  management  of 
fuel  and  the  construction  of  stoves  and  fireplaces, 
with  due  regard  to  that  economy,  than  to  anyone  else 
in  modern  times.  He  was  induced  to  turn  his  atten- 
tion to  the  subject  by  the  scarcity  of  fuel  on  the  Con- 
tinent, and  his  ideas  naturally  expanded  and  enlarged 
themselves  by  constant  practice.  At  last  he  suc- 
ceeded in  inventing  a  method  of  heating  houses  and 
of  cooking  food  which  did  not  require  much  more 
than  half  the  usual  amount  of  fuel,  and  this  economy 
in  firing  became  such  a  mania  with  him  that  the  joke 
of  the  day  used  to  be  that  his  highest  ambition  was 
to  be  able  to  cook  his  own  dinner  by  means  of  his 
neighbour's  smoke. 

However  that  may  have  been,  it  is  very  certain  that 
to  Count  Rumford  we  owe  a  great  increase  of  our 
knowledge  on  such  subjects,  and  the  reason  I  mention 
him  particularly  in  this  place  is  that  he  never  seemed 
to  weary  of  insisting  on  the  necessity  of  a  well-kept 
brightly-blacked  fireplace  to  the  due  economy  of  the 
fuel  used  in  it.  He  explained  incessantly  how  that 
kind  of  heat  which  is  absorbed  by  either  black  or 
white  surfaces  is  totally  devoid  of  light,  and  may 
almost  be  considered  as  pure,  radiant  heat.  So  that 
the  first  point  to  be  taught,  in  ever  so  humble  a 
kitchen,  is  that  the  fireplace  should  be  exquisitely 
clean,  besides  well  and  brightly  blacked,  in  order  to 


62  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  n. 

give  the  fuel  which  will  be  used  in  it  a  fair  chance  of 
giving  out,  by  radiation,  every  particle  of  its  latent 
heat. 

The  next  thing  to  be  considered  is  the  division  and 
arrangement  of  that  fuel,  beginning  from  even  the 
starting-point  of  lighting  the  fire.  A  careful  house- 
wife— careful  either  on  her  own  account  or  her  mis- 
tress's— will  only  use  half  as  much  wood  or  shavings  to 
start  her  fire  with  as  a  thriftless  one,  because  she  will 
take  trouble  to  learn  that  there  is  a  scientific  but 
perfectly  simple  mode  of  laying  and  lighting  a  fire. 
She  will  be  told  in  theory,  and  prove  for  herself  by 
practice,  that  she  must  thoroughly  clear  out  her  grate, 
clean  and  brighten  it  up  to  the  highest  pitch,  and  then 
place  in  it  whatever  is  her  lightest  material,  her  paper, 
or  dry  grass,  or  shavings,  whatever  she  has  at  her 
command.  Next  come  the  slender  twigs  or  dried 
sprays  of  heather  of  the  country,  or  the  neatly- cut 
firewood  of  the  town.  Unless  all  this  is  thoroughly 
dried  over-night,  •  it  will  be  worse  than  useless,  and 
it  is  in  attention  to  details  of  this  sort  that  true 
economy  consists.  A  damp  bundle  of  wood  or  twigs 
will  smoulder,  and  be  consumed  without  making  any 
appreciable  difference  in  the  state  of  the  fire,  whereas 
half  the  quantity,  when  thoroughly  dry,  will  start  a 
satisfactory  blaze  in  a  few  minutes.  Then  should  the 
cinders  be  thoroughly  and  carefully  sifted ;  and  now- 
a-days  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  this  is  as  im- 
peratively necessary  in  a  palace  as  in  a  cottage,  on 
account  of  the  increased  price  of  coal.  No  cinders 


LESS,  vin J       PRINCIPLES  Oi^£Q&KW£\^ — '        63 

should  be  relegated  to  the  dus thole  at  all,  for  every- 
thing, except  actual  dust  or  the  hard  flakes  (called 
clinkers)  left  by  coke,  can  be  used.  The  largest 
cinders  may  be  laid  lightly  on  the  logs  of  the  blazing 
sticks,  the  smaller  ones  being  thrown  up,  later,  at  the 
back.  Cinders  are  the  best  material  in  the  world  for 
starting  a  fire,  and  even  small  lumps  of  coal  should 
only  be  sparingly  used  at  first.  Above  all,  a  beginner 
should  be  taught  that  her  fire  will  never  light  or  burn 
up  if  she  does  not  take  care  to  establish  a  free  circula- 
tion of  air  beneath.  I  am,  of  course,  speaking  of 
ordinary  open  fireplaces.  Stoves  and  other  patent  fire- 
places are  generally  constructed  on  entirely  different 
principles,  and  require  special  instruction  for  the 
management  of  their  fuel,  but  this  is  easily  obtained 
from  the  person  who  fixes  them. 

Taking  it  for  granted,  then,  that  our  ideal  cook 
thoroughly  understands  how  to  light  her  fire,  and  is 
impressed  with  a  due  sense  of  the  importance  of  a 
well-blacked  shining  kitchen-range,  or  humbler  tiny 
fireplace — the  rule  is  the  same  everywhere — and  that 
she  is  one  of  those  capable  people  who  would  dis- 
dain to  shelter  themselves  behind  the  excuse  of  an 
ill-tempered  chimney  or  a  "  bad  draught/'  we  will 
presently  proceed  to  see  what  she  should  cook  upon 
her  fire. 


PART    III. 

THE  PRINCIPLES   OF  DIET  AND  A  FEW  CHEAP 
AND   EASY  RECIPES. 


PART   III. 

REMARKS. 

THE  first  principle  of  diet  is  that  the  stomach  should 
not  be  asked  to  receive  more  than  it  can  digest  5  and 
the  second,  that  the  food  should  be  suitable  to  each 
person's  digestion.  We  are  very  tyrannical  to  our 
stomachs,  and  they,  in  their  turn,  generally  retaliate 
upon  us  sooner  or  later.  If  a  certain  form  of  diet 
agrees  with  one  individual,  it  is  no  absolute  rule  that 
it  should  suit  our  neighbour ;  but  we  too  often  insist 
on  feeding  others  according  to  what  we  imagine  agrees 
with  ourselves.  Especially  is  this  the  case  with  chil- 
dren's diet,  and  few  grown-up  people  make  allowance 
for  the  healthy  appetite  of  girls  or  boys  who  are  still 
growing,  or  understand  how  much  food-material  the 
rapidly-expanding  frame  requires. 

My  own  firm  conviction  is  that  no  schoolboy  ever 
gets  as  much  nourishing  food  as  he  requires,  and  that 
that  is  the  secret  why  boys  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  years 
old  scarcely  ever  look  anything  but  thin  and  pinched. 
The  general  remark  is,  "  Oh,  they  are  growing  so  fast ! " 
So  they  are,  and  that  is  the  exact  reason  why  their 
food  should  be  particularly  nourishing,  more  so  than 
at  any  other  time  of  their  lives.  Instead  of  that,  an 

F  2 


68  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

English  schoolboy  gets  two  slops  and  only  one  nourish- 
ing meal  a  day,  during  the  years  of  his  life  when  he 
requires  the  greatest  amount  of  nutritive  food.  Think 
of  the  actual  force-producers  contained  in  a  school- 
boy's breakfast  and  tea  (or  supper),  and  think  of  the 
amount  of  exercise  his  restless  young  limbs  will  take 
or  have  taken  in  the  course  of  the  day.  After  a  game 
of  football  or  cricket,  or  a  paper-chase,  a  boy  sits 
down  generally — I  might  almost  say  invariably — to  a 
meal  of  weak  tea,  skim  milk,  bread,  and  perhaps 
cheese  or  a  little  butter.  I  am  not,  of  course,  speak- 
ing of  cheap  schools.  When  a  person  undertakes  to 
feed  and  teach  and  board  a  boy  for  a  sum  between 
2O/.  and  5o/.,  or  even  more,  it  is  well-nigh  impossible, 
at  the  present  scale  of  prices,  to  give  him  better,  01 
even  as  good  food  as  what  I  have  described ;  but  it 
does  appear  to  me  a  shame  that  at  the  more  expen- 
sive schools  to  which  boys  are  sent  by  parents  of 
fairly  good  means,  the  scale  of  diet  should  be  kept  so 
low,  and  the  proportion  of  really  nutritive  food  so 
small.  Perhaps  the  only  exceptions  to  this  rule  are 
to  be  found  in  the  liberal  tables  of  some  of  our  best 
public  schools,  but  even  there  the  boys,  without  being 
absolutely  starved,  do  not  get  enough  to  eat,  and  two 
meals  out  of  the  three  will  probably  contain  insuffi- 
cient nourishment.  In  girls'  schools,.  I  fancy,  this  evil 
is  still  more  decided,  and  a  poor  diet  whilst  a  child  is 
growing  rapidly  is  the  root  of  delicate  constitutions, 
feeble  frames,  and  general  "  breaking  down "  at  the 
outset  of  life. 


REMARKS.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  69 


There  should  also  be  the  greatest  imaginable  differ- 
ence in  diet  between  different  classes  of  workers ;  for 
although  a  certain  section  of  the  community  monopo- 
lizes to  itself  the  honourable  title  of  the  "  Working 
Class,"  the  term  embraces  many  more  thousands 
than  the  labouring  man  imagines.  The  popular  idea, 
for  instance,  among  the  poor  and  ignorant  masses 
who  work  for  their  daily  bread,  is  that  the  Lady  who 
rules  over  this  country  leads  a  blissful  life  of  idleness, 
seated  on  her  throne  all  day,  orb  and  sceptre  in  hand, 
and  gazing  placidly  before  her  into  space.  Now,  I 
believe  it  to  be  a  fact  that  few  people  in  all  Her  wide 
dominions  work  really  harder,  in  every  sense  of  the 
word,  than  our  dear  and  good  Queen.  At  the  head 
of  the  workers  her  Majesty  may  well  claim  to  take  her 
place,  and  then  will  come  a  crowd  of  men  and  women 
who  wear  good  clothes  and  live  in  fine,  or  at  all 
events  decent,  houses,  and  yet  work  absolutely  harder, 
all  the  year  round,  than  any  day  labourer  in  the  Mid- 
land Counties. 

The  diet  for  work  of  this  nature  must  necessarily  be 
very  different  to  that  required  by  the  man  who  exer- 
cises his  muscles  in  the  open  air,  and  whose  appetite 
and  digestion  possess  far  larger  capacities  of  receiving 
and  assimilating  food  than  those  of  the  poor  brain 
worker  who  uses  up  his  life-power  at  a  much  quicker 
rate.  The  absence  of  fresh  air,  and  the  want  there- 
fore of  constantly  renewed  supplies  of  oxygen  to  the 
blood  through  the  lungs,  prevent  the  man  who  works 
indoors  with  his  head  or  his  hands  from  feeling  so 


70  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

hungry,  yet  the  exhaustion  of  his  nervous  system  de- 
mands as  urgently  that  it  should  be  renewed  by  means 
of  food.  At  the  same  time  the  digestion  of  such  a 
one  is  weaker,  and  cannot  manage  gross  substances. 
For  these  workers,  then,  a  diet  where  the  cooking  is  so 
perfect,  however  simple  it  may  be,  that  there  shall  be 
as  little  strain  as  possible  thrown  upon  the  gastric  juices, 
is  of  the  first  importance.  To  brain-workers  albumen 
is  even  more  necessary  than  fibrine,  and  raw  eggs 
afford  this  in  its  purest  form.  There  is  a  popular 
fallacy  that  eggs  beaten  up  in  milk  are  rendered 
doubly  nourishing,  but  if  the  egg  be  fresh  and  good 
the  combination  is  rather  more  fitted  to  hinder  than 
to  promote  digestion.  It  would  be  better  to  beat  the 
egg  up  in  a  little  brandy  or  wine,  and  wine  is  the 
best.  Fibrine,  in  the  form  of  meat,  should  be 
sparingly  used  by  those  who  live  by  their  brains,  and 
the  meat  should  be  of  the  best  quality,  and  always 
very  well  and  delicately  cooked.  Fish  supplies  most 
easily  the  phosphorus  which  is  needed  by  such  a 
system,  and  good  pure  milk  and  cream  are  also  very 
essential  articles  of  diet. 

But  to  the  man  who  exercises  his  muscles  in  the 
open  air  a  very  different  regimen  must  be  prescribed. 
The  labourer  instinctively  stops  the  gaps  between  his 
scanty  meals  with  cheese,  which  is  the  best  thing 
for  him,  and  he  enriches  his  poor  diet  of  potatoes 
with  bacon.  Some  day,  when  his  wife  has  learned 
how  to  make  the  most  of  every  scrap  of  meat,  he  ought 
to  be  able  to  vary  his  food  with  a  good  drop  of  warm 


REMARKS.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  71 


nourishing  broth.  If  only  he  could  be  persuaded  to 
diminish  his  beer  and  increase  his  allowance  of  meat, 
he  would  find  himself  in  a  far  better  condition  for  work. 

The  diet  of  our  soldiers,  and  even  of  our  sailors, 
appears  to  me — in  spite  of  tables  showing  the  pro- 
portions of  flesh-formers  and  starch,  of  gluten,  and 
heaven  knows  what,  swallowed  daily  by  every  soldier 
• — to  be  really  insufficient  for  a  healthy  man  with 
a  good  appetite.  They  may  be  supplied  with  food 
enough  to  prevent  anything  like  actual  starvation, 
and  even  to  keep  them  in  some  sort  of  condition, 
but  I  question  whether  a  British  soldier  ever  knows 
what  it  is  to  feel  thoroughly  satisfied  after  his  meals 
for  one  whole  day.  It  is  just  possible,  is  it  not, 
that  the  men  would  be  easier  kept  away  from  the 
canteen  if  they  had  as  much  as  they  could  eat  ? 
Tables  of  food-proportions  are  very  well  in  their 
way,  but  I  know  that  I  have  seen  working  men  in 
New  Zealand,  and  growing  boys  of  eighteen  and 
twenty  years  old  in  colonies  where  meat  was  cheap, 
consume  fibrine — or,  in  other  words,  eat  plain  roast 
meat — in  quantities  which  would  soon  leave  the  most 
liberal  military  dietary  several  pounds  behind. 

It  is  not-  at  all  certain  that,  in  spite  of  danger  and 
discomforts,  our  soldiers  do  not  really  fare  better 
abroad,  or  in  time  of  war,  than  at  home  in  peace. 
In  the  face  of  a  national  excitement  we  are  not  so 
very  particular  as  to  the  number  of  ounces  of  meat  to 
be  dealt  out  to  the  men  who  have  to  stand  between  us 
and  ruin,  so  the  soldier  has  then  a  better  chance  of 


72  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

occasionally  getting  as  much  as  he  can  eat.  If  he 
could  cook  his  own  food,  he  would  be  still  better  off ; 
and  anyone  who  saw  those  good-looking  German 
soldiers  cooking  their  rations  in  the  little  tent  behind 
the  School  of  Cookery  last  summer,  must  remember 
how  deftly  they  set  about  their  preparations,  and  how 
savoury  was  the  result  of  a  pea-sausage  and  a  bone 
or  two.  No  doubt  every  year  brings  its  improvements 
in  these  matters,  and  if  a  soldier  who  fought  under 
Marlborough  could  see  the  rations  and  barrack  ac- 
commodation of  his  modern  brethren-in-arms,  he 
would  indeed  think  they  had  nothing  to  complain  of 
in  the  way  of  food  and  shelter.  But  still  there  is 
ample  room  for  improvement,  and  I  would  endorse 
the  suggestion  often  made  before,  that  the  British 
soldier  be  taught  to  cook,  and  to  make  the  most  of  his 
rations  by  such  cooking.  Each  man  might  take  it  in 
turn  to  try  his  hand  over  the  fire,  and  there  might  be 
some  regimental  emulation  in  the  form  of  small  prizes 
for  clever  contrivances  to  vary  the  food,  and  so  forth. 
I  am  aware  that  the  food  is  not  nearly  so  mono- 
tonous as  it  used  to  be  a  short  time  since,  when  all  the 
meat  eaten  by  soldiers  was  invariably  boiled ;  but  still 
I  question  whether  the  mess  dinner  of  the  rank  and 
file  is  anything  like  so  savoury  and  palatable  as  the 
dinner  to  be  had  a  few  years  ago  in  Paris,  at  one 
Madame  Roland's,  near  the  Marche  des  Innocents. 
For  twopence  she  gave  you  cabbage  soup  with  a  slice 
of  bouilli  (beef)  in  it,  a  large  piece  of  excellent  bread, 
and  a  glass  of  wine,  which  it  must  be  admitted,  how- 


LESS,  ix.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  73 


ever,  was  rather  thin.  Some  600  workmen  used  to 
throng  daily  round  her  table  in  a  shed,  and  yet  she  cal- 
culated that  she  gained  a  farthing  by  each  guest.  In 
Glasgow,  Manchester,  and  elsewhere,  similar  public 
dining  places  have  been  established  on  the  cheapest 
possible  scale,  and  found  to  answer  very  well  j  but 
although  a  workman  may  be  able  to  get  a  fairly  good 
and  nutritive  dinner  "at  such  an  institution,  it  is  not 
the  less  necessary  that  his  wife  should  know  how  to 
cook  his  food  decently  for  him  at  home. 


LESSON  IX. 

BOILING    AND    STEWING. 

THERE  is  all  the  difference  in  the  world  between 
boiling  meat  which  is  to  be  eaten,  and  meat  whose 
juices  are  to  be  extracted  in  the  form  of  soup.  If 
the  meat  is  required  as  nourishment,  of  course  you 
want  the  juices  kept  in.  To  do  this  it  is  necessary 
to  plunge  it  into  boiling  water,  which  will  cause  the 
albumen  in  the  meat  to  coagulate  suddenly,  and  act 
as  a  plug  or  stopper  to  all  the  tubes  of  the  meat,  so 
that  the  nourishment  will  be  tightly  kept  in.  The 
temperature  of  the  water  should  be  kept  at  boiling- 
point  for  five  minutes,  and  then  as  much  cold  water 
must  be  added  as  will  reduce  the  temperature  to  165°. 
If  the  whole  be  kept  at  this  temperature  for  some 
hours,  you  have  all  the  conditions  united  which  give 


74  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 


to  the  flesh  the  quality  best  adapted  for  its  use  as 
food.  The  juices  are  kept  in  the  meat,  and  instead 
of  being  called  upon  to  consume  an  insipid  mass  of 
indigestible  fibres,  we  have  a  tender  piece  of  meat, 
from  which,  when  cut,  the  imprisoned  juices  run 
freely.  If  the  meat  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  boil- 
ing water  without  the  addition  of  any  cold  to  it,  it 
becomes  in  a  short  time  altogether  cooked,  but  it  will 
be  as  hard  as  iron,  and  utterly  indigestible,  and  there- 
fore unwholesome. 

If  soup  is  to  be  made  out  of  meat,  then  it  stands  to 
reason  we  want  all  the  juices  which  we  can  possibly 
extract  from  the  meat  to  mix  with  the  water.  There- 
fore the  meat  should  be  put  into  cold  water,  with  a 
little  salt  and  a  few  vegetables  (if  in  a  poor  family  a 
few  crusts  of  bread  may  be  added  at  the  last  minute), 
and  allowed  to  simmer  as  long  as  possible.  It  is  un- 
doubtedly the  most  economical  form  of  nourishment 
which  exists,  and  it  is  an  absurd  prejudice  to  suppose 
that  the  same  amount  of  meat  is  invariably  more 
valuable  to  the  human  system  if  it  be  frizzled  in  a 
greasy  frying-pan,  so  that  it  becomes  burnt  outside 
but  remains  raw  within,  and  eaten  in  this  state  as 
"  good  solid  food/'  dear  to  the  heart  (but  surely  not 
to  the  stomach)  of  a  true  Englishman.  In  the  first 
place,  even  a  pound  of  meat  will  only  feed  one 
person  in  a  solid  form,  whereas,  if  to  exactly  the 
same  weight  of  meat  be  added  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
a  few  vegetables,  or  even  herbs,  a  couple  of  potatoes, 
a  bone  or  two,  a  scrap  of  bacon,  an  onion — almost 


LESS,  ix.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  75 


anything  which  comes  handy — we  have  at  once  the 
pot-au-feu  of  the  French  peasant,  and  produce  a 
warm,  savoury,  wholesome  meal  for  two  or  three 
persons.  It  may  be  as  well  to  mention  that  the  scum 
which  rises  on  the  top  of  the  water  whilst  meat  is 
boiling  is  always  useless  and  unwholesome,  and 
should  be  got  rid  of  as  completely  as  possible.  The 
way  to  help  this  scum  to  rise,  so  as  to  be  able  to  get 
rid  of  it,  is  to  keep  pouring  in  a  little  cold  water  from 
time  to  time.  This  will  always  have  the  effect  of 
sending  up  some  of  the  obnoxious  substance  to  the 
top,  from  whence  it  should  speedily  be  removed. 

Stewing  occupies  a  sort  of  middle  position  between 
roasting  and  boiling,  and  must  be  carefully  attended 
to,  if  the  meat  is  not  to  be  hardened  instead  of 
softened  by  the  process.  It  is  desirable  to  dip  meat 
into  boiling  water  for  stewing  as  well  as  boiling,  unless 
indeed  it  should  have  been  soaked  before.  What, 
for  instance,  makes  hashed  mutton  a  byword  of 
nastiness  ?  Because  an  ignorant  cook  plunges  her 
chunks  of  cold  meat  into  a  greasy  gravy  when  it  is 
at  boiling-point,  thereby  thoroughly  and  hopelessly 
hardening  the  meat,  and  then  serves  up  the  mess  with 
large  pieces  of  half-toasted  bread.  Now,  is  this  way 
more  extravagant?  I  can  answer  for  its  being  more 
palatable.  Make  a  nice  little  gravy  of  any  cold  stock 
— and  a  good  cook  will  always  have  a  small  basin  or 
cup  full  of  stock  by  her — add  an  onion  finely  shredded 
and  fried,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and,  if  it  is  to 
be  had,  a  tea-spoonful  of  ketchup.  Let  the  mixture 


76  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in- 


come to  boiling-point,  without  boiling  over,  and 
strain  it  into  another  saucepan.  If  you  have  only 
one  saucepan,  strain  it  into  a  basin,  quickly  clean 
out  your  saucepan,  and  pour  the  gravy  back  into  it, 
setting  it  aside  to  let  it  get  nearly  quite  cold.  Then, 
and  not  until  then,  lay  in  thinly- cut,  small'slices  of  the 
cold  meat,  and  let  the  gravy  and  the  meat  warm 
thoroughly  and  gradually  together,  without  boiling, 
but  don't  allow  it  to  stew  too  long.  Whilst  it  is 
getting  ready,  have  the  frying-pan  ready  with  a  little 
boiling  fat  (not  that  which  fish  has  been  fried  in, 
remember),  and  put  into  it  some  small,  thin,  three- 
cornered  pieces  of  bread,  which  will  quickly  fry  into 
a  crisp  toast.  Serve  these  round  the  hash,  which, 
by  the  way,  should  not  be  swamped  in  gravy,  and  I 
can  answer  that  a  certain  cockney  millionaire  friend 
of  mine  will  no  longer  issue  this  solemn  warning  to 
his  family:  "Never  eat  'ashes  away  from  'ome." 

But  to  return  to  stewing.  If  it  be  properly  under- 
stood and  practised,  stewed  meat  makes  a  very  agree- 
able and  palatable  change  from  the  monotonous 
boiling  and  roasting  which  alternate  on  the  middle- 
class  daily  bill  of  fare.  A  shoulder  of  mutton  stewed, 
Indian  fashion,  with  a  handful  of  well-washed  rice,  a 
few  Sultana  raisins,  half  a  dozen  cloves,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  currie  powder  to  flavour  it,  makes  an 
agreeable  change.  Some  meats  are  far  more  whole- 
some also  when  stewed  than  when  roast ;  as  veal, 
for  instance,  and  many  kinds  of  fish.  Eels  are  in- 
variably more  wholesome  stewed  than  boiled— though 


LESS,  ix.]          PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  77 

all  fish  is  wholesomer  boiled  than  fried,  for  stewing 
is  a  more  gradual  process  than  boiling,  and  the  fat  is 
more  surely  got  rid  of.  If  it  should  ever  be  necessary 
to  cook  a  beefsteak  which  has  not  yet  had  time  to 
become  tender  by  keeping,  then,  for  the  sake  of  the 
digestion  of  the  family,  it  would  be  better  to  stew  it, 
and  this  is  the  way  it  should  be  done. 

The  meat  should  first  be  cut  into  convenient,  but 
large-sized  pieces  (all  the  fat  having  been  removed) 
and  lightly  fried  on  both  sides  in  butter  or  clarified 
dripping.  This  will  make  it  of  a  nice  brown  colour, 
and  prevent  the  pale  flabby  appearance  it  would 
otherwise  present.  Then  get  a  saucepan  and  put  the 
meat  into  it,  with  a  little  sliced  onion,  turnips  and 
carrots  (which  are  also  improved  by  being  half-fried 
first),  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  any  sauce 
you  prefer.  If  there  is  any  stock,  add  it,  but  if  not, 
put  in  about  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  all  simmer 
very  gently  for  two  or  three  hours.  At  the  last  mo- 
ment skim  it  well,  for  it  is  odious  if  it  be  greasy  ;  stir 
in  a  few  pinches  of  flour  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  let 
it  all  boil  up  together  for  a  couple  of  minutes  before 
serving.  Some  people  are  very  fond  of  fat  with  all 
their  food,  though  they  should  bear  in  mind  that  fat 
affords  no  nourishment  whatever  to  the  human  body. 
It  merely  goes  to  make  fat.  A  stout  person  should 
therefore  not  eat  much  fat,  and  a  thin  one  should. 
The  function  of  fat,  as  we  all  know,  is  like  starch  or 
sugar,  to  keep  up  the  heat  of  the  animal,  and  a  certain 
proportion  is  even  present  in  healthy  animal  muscle ; 


78  FIRS'l  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  in. 

so  it  does  not  do  to  buy  lean  meat,  although  all  the 
fat  on  the  joint  need  not  be  sent  up  to  table.  How- 
ever, it  is  necessary  to  serve  a  certain  portion  of  fat 
with  stewed  steak,  but  do  not  let  it  stew  with  the 
meat,  for  it  will  only  melt  and  rise  to  the  surface 
in  the  scum  which  has  to  be  so  carefully  removed. 
Rather  keep  the  fat  till  the  last  moment,  cut  it  into 
little  pieces  a  couple  of  inches  long,  and  put  it  by 
itself  in  the  frying-pan  or  on  a  gridiron  for  a  minute 
or  two  just  to  cook  it,  and  serve  it  in  golden-brown 
nodules  on  the  top  of  the  stewed  meat. 

All  nice  cooking — be  its  materials  ever  so  simple — 
is  more  or  less  troublesome ;  but  I  have  always  found 
(and  the  experience  of  others  bears  out  my  own)  that 
bad  cooks  will  take  quite  as  much  trouble  to  spoil 
food.  It  is  therefore  a  great  pity  that  when  a 
woman  is  conscious  of  her  own  deficiencies  and  is 
anxious  and  willing  to  improve  by  learning,  she  should 
not  have  the  opportunity  of  doing  so.  But  unfor- 
tunately cooking  is  not  to  be  learned  "from  a  book, 
nor  from  a  lecture.  It  is  an  art  in  which  practical 
experience,  supplementing  theoretical  information, 
alone  can  be  of  any  use.  It  is  doubtless  a  great 
advantage  to  intelligent  beginners  to  have  the  why 
and  wherefore  of  everything  explained  to  them  either 
by  voice  or  page,  but  it  is  equally  necessary  for 
them  to  see  with  their  own  eyes  and  try  with  their 
own  hands  the  result  of  these  instructions,  for  half- 
an-hour's  practice  is  worth  a  week's  theorizing,  in 
cooking  as  well  as  in  other  things. 


i  ESS.  x.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  79 


LESSON  X. 

BAKING,    ROASTING,    AND    FRYING. 

THE  same  principle  which  has  been  advocated  in 
boiling  holds  good  with  regard  to  roasting.  If  you 
wish  to  retain  all  the  juices  in  the  meat,  place  it  close 
to  the  fire  for  five  minutes  at  first,  and  then  remove  it 
to  a  greater  distance  until  the  last  five  minutes,  when 
it  should  be  brought  near  the  fire  again.  It  is  possible, 
by  this  method,  to  roast  a  joint  thoroughly,  so  that  it 
shall  be  perfectly  well  cooked,  and  yet,  when  carved, 
the  imprisoned  juices  shall  flow  out  readily.  All  meat 
ought  to  be  well  floured  and  sprinkled  with  a  pinch 
or  two  of  salt  before  putting  it  to  the  fire,  and  it 
should  be  kept  constantly  basted  with  clear  dripping. 
Some  things,  such  as  hare,  are  better  basted  with 
milk  ;  and  poultry,  or  any  very  small  joint,  is  much 
improved  by  being  covered  with  lard  or  oiled  paper. 
Instead  of  larding  game  or  poultry,  it  is  often  prefer- 
able to  bard  it,  i.e.  to  cover  the  breast  with  a  thin 
slice  of  fat  bacon,  which  may  be  served  up  with  it  as 
with  quails. 

We  must  remember  that  the  object  in  cooking  is  to 
present  meat,  and  indeed  all  food,  to  the  palate  in  an 
agreeable  form  without  changing  its  composition  more 
than  we  can  help,  or  losing  its  nutritive  value.  Raw 
meat,  quite  apart  from  other  objections,  is  so  tough 


£°  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  in. 

that  it  would  be  impossible  to  masticate  or  digest 
enough  of  it  to  satisfy  hunger,  whereas  the  application 
of  heat  is  intended  to  force  the  juices  to  expand,  thus 
separating  the  fibres  and  making  mastication  easy  and 
pleasant. 

The  loss  of  weight  in  roasting,  especially  if  the 
joint  be  a  fat  one,  is  very  considerable.  As  much  as 
4lb.  4  oz.  have  been  lost  in  roasting  a  joint  of  15  Ibs. 
weight  in  the  ordinary  manner.  Although  meat  actually 
loses  more  of  its  weight  by  roasting  than  by  boiling, 
yet,  if  no  account  be  taken  of  the  matters  extracted, 
it  contains,  when  roasted,  a  larger  proportion  of  nu- 
tritive elements  than  the  larger  mass  of  boiled  meat, 
and  in  a  given  weight  is  more  nutritious.  Meat  is 
often  baked,  and  though  this  method  maybe  harmless 
and  agreeable  as  a  change,  it  is  not  such  a  wholesome 
form  of  cooking  as  roasting. 

The  primitive  manner  of  baking  meat  is  the  only 
one  which  ensures  it  from  becoming  dry  and  tasteless, 
namely,  to  enclose  it  in  a  crust  of  some  sort.  The 
gipsies  to  this  day  bake  their  meat  and  poultry — we 
will  not  inquire  how  this  latter  item  is  added  to  the 
bill  of  fare — in  a  sort  of  mud  mould  or  case,  covering 
up  feathers  and  all ;  and  the  Indians  and  Maoris 
generally  cook  in  the  same  way.  A  fowl,  or  a  piece 
of  meat  of  any  sort,  is  delicious  when  enclosed  in  a 
flour-and-water  case — dough,  in  fact — and  baked  in 
the  embers  'of  a  camp  fire.  If  the  meat  were  put  in 
the  fire  without  this  protection,  it  would  simply  get 
burnt 


LESS.  x,j  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  Si 


Frying  is  the  simplest,  the  commonest,  ami,  if  pro- 
perly done,  the  wholesomest  form  of  cooking  food, 
but  it  is  perhaps  the  least  understood,  and  more  often 
results  in  burning  the  outside  of  the  meat  whilst  the 
inside  is  left  raw.  To  begin  with,  a  clear,  smokeless 
fire  is  indispensable  for  frying,  and  it  is  equally  neces- 
sary to  have  a  perfectly  clean  frying-pan.  Of  course 
the  best  oil,  or  the  best  fresh  butter,  would  offer  the 
most  perfect  conditions  of  the  fat  in  which  anything 
should  be  fried  ;  but  good,  pure,  clear  fat,  and  clarified 
dripping,  make  capital  substitutes.  Cold  meat  is  ex- 
cellent when  lightly  fried  and  served  up  with  yester- 
day's vegetables  and  potatoes  (also  cut  up  and  fried), 
but  the  excellence  depends  entirely  on  the  delicate  yet 
savoury  flavouring,  the  clearness  of  the  fire,  and  the 
goodness  of  the  fat  in  which  the  frying  process  is 
carried  on.  It  is  also  very  important  that  the  fat 
should  be  actually  boiling.  Here  again  we  are  met 
by  prejudice,  for  ninety-nine  cooks  out  of  a  hundred 
will  allege  that  they  are  "  respectable  women  "  when 
asked  to  use  a  frimometer  or  a  thermometer,  and 
prefer  to  go  on  ascertaining  the  temperature  of 
their  fat  by  guesswork  or  by  means  of  a  sprig  of 
parsley.  It  is  more  economical  to  roast  the  flesh  of 
young  animals,  such  as  lamb,  chicken,  veal,  or  pork, 
because  such  flesh  contains  an  undue  proportion  of 
albumen  and  gelatine  in  the  tissues,  and  these  sub- 
stances will  to  a  great  extent  be  lost  in  the  boiling. 

If  I  had  to  cook  a  dish  of  cutlets  and  potatoes,  or 
a  tender  rump-steak  and  potatoes,  this  is  the  way  I 

G 


82  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

should  do  it,  or,  to  speak  quite  truthfully,  these  are  the 
directions  I  should  give  for  its  being  done.  First,  I 
must  say  that  whenever  it  is  practicable  to  use  a  grid- 
iron in  the  place  of  a  frying-pan,  and  to  broil  meat 
instead  of  frying,  it  should  be  done.  But,  at  the  same 
time,  I  have  tasted  such  excellent  cutlets  served  out  of 
a  frying-pan,  that  it  shows  it  is  not  an  invariable  rule. 
It  is  the  attention  to  small  details  which  makes  all  the 
difference  in  nice  cooking,  and  if  persons  thoroughly 
understand  the  value  of  these  important  trifles,  they 
learn  to  do  the  thing  always  that  way,  and  so  it  be- 
comes no  more  trouble  to  them  than  is  the  slatternly 
method  which  results  in  grease  and  cinders,  heartburn 
and  disgust.  Well,  then,  let  us  imagine  that  we  are 
rich  enough  to  possess  a  frying-pan  and  a  gridiron,  and 
that  our  fire,  however  small,  is  clear  and  bright,  with- 
out a  film  of  smoke,  for  it  is  of  no  use  trying  to  fry 
or  broil  unless  the  fire  is  in  a  proper  condition.  In 
spite  of  what  has  been  said  in  a  former  place  about 
cooking  potatoes  in  their  skins,  potatoes  for  frying 
must  needs  be  peeled,  well  washed,  and  cut  rapidly 
up  with  a  sharp  knife  into  thin  slices.  Again,  they 
should  be  thrown  into  a  basin  of  water  for  a  moment, 
and  then  laid  on  a  clean  cloth,  slice  by  slice,  to  be 
thoroughly  dried.  All  this  time  the  nice,  clear  fat 
should  have  been  melting  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  is 
actually  boiling  throw  in  the  potatoes,  keeping  the 
frying-pan  frequently  moving  so  that  they  shall  not 
stick  to  its  bottom.  A  couple  or  three  minutes  ought 
to  crisp  them  to  a  beautiful  golden  brown  colour ; 


LESS,  x.]  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  83 

then  skim  them  swiftly  out  of  the  boiling  fat,  throw 
them  into  a  large,  fine  wire  sieve  (which  would  be  all 
the  better  for  having  been  warmed  to  receive  them;, 
sprinkle  a  pinch  of  salt  over  them,  and  turn  them 
into  a  very  hot  dish,  every  particle  of  fat  having  been 
left  behind  in  the  sieve.  Although  the  potatoes  have 
been  mentioned  first,  the  meat  should  really  have 
preceded  them  in  the  order  of  cooking,  as  it  is 
the  easiest  to  keep  hot  If  you  are  going  to  have 
cutlets,  trim  them  from  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of 
mutton  very  neatly.  There  is  no  occasion  to  throw 
away  the  scraps ;  they  should  either  go  into  the  stock- 
pot,  or,  if  strict  economy  be  necessary,  they  may  after- 
wards be  made  into  a  pudding  or  pie.  The  chine-bone 
must  be  sawn  off,  and  the  seven  or  eight  chops  (which 
are  all  you  will  be  able  to  get  off  a  moderate-sized 
neck  of  mutton)  neatly  pared,  and  only  about  an  inch 
of  bare  bone  left  to  each  cutlet  for  a  handle.  The 
cutlets  should  then  be  sprinkled  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  laid  for  a  moment  in  a  dish  of  oil : 
then  put  them  on  the  gridiron,  or  into  the  frying- 
pan,  but  in  this  latter  case  add  a  little  more  oil,  and 
broil  or  fry  them  for  six  or  seven  minutes.  They 
ought  by  that  time  to  be  nicely  done,  and  should  be 
served  hot.  Beefsteak  can  be  cooked  exactly  in  the 
same  way,  only  from  its  larger  size  the  gridiron  is 
more  strictly  indispensable.  A  frying-pan  is  a  very 
serviceable  implement  in  the  hands  of  a  skilful 
manager.  I  trust  she  will  make  it  a  point  of  keeping 
it  scrupulously  clean,  and  then  she  can  serve  up 

G  ? 


FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 


the  cold  vegetables  left  from  yesterday  in  this 
fashion  at  a  moment's  notice.  Melt  a  little  fat 
or  butter  in  your  frying-pan,  shred  an  onion  into 
it  with  a  spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  sprig  of  any  savoury  herb 
or  bit  of  lemon-peel  which  comes  handy.  Then 
cut  up  the  vegetables — cabbage,  turnips,  carrots, 
and  so  forth — into  small  pieces,  and  fry  the  whole, 
lightly  tossing  the  contents  of  your  frying-pan  all  the 
time,  so  that  they  may  not  get  into  a  burnt  fat-soaked 
mass.  On  a  sudden  call  for  a  late  supper,  such  a  dish 
as  this  forms  a  capital  addition  to  the  cold  meat  or 
fried  bacon  and  eggs. 

Of  all  the  uses,  however,  to  which  a  housewife 
turns  her  frying-pan,  I  suppose  an  omelet  is  the 
least  in  demand,  and  yet  it  is  at  once  the  cheapest 
and  easiest  way  in  the  world  to  cook  eggs  with 
other  things.  All  it  requires  is  vigilance  and  knack. 
Don't  0zw-beat  your  eggs,  just  whisk  them  up 
(three  are  quite  enough  for  a  manageable  omelet), 
whites  and  all,  lightly  and  swiftly,  beat  in  with 
them  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  some  finely- 
chopped  parsley,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  cheese, 
or  shredded  bacon,  or  even  shredded  fish ;  almost  any* 
thing  mixes  well  in  an  omelet,  provided  it  is  cut  fine 
enough.  Have  the  frying-pan  ready  on  the  fire  with 
butter  enough  in  it  to  fairly  cover  its  surface  when 
melted,  which  it  should  do  without  browning.  Into 
this  clear  liquid  butter  pour  the  contents  of  your 
basin  (your  eggs,  &c.),  holding  the  frying-pan  with 


OF  THE 

NIVERSITT 

,  x.]          PRINCIPLES  O 


the  left  hand,  and  gently  stirring  the  mixture  with 
a  wooden  spoon  in  the  other.  The  omelet  will  set 
almost  immediately,  and  then  the  stirring  should  be 
discontinued,  and  the  gentle  shaking  carried  on  inces- 
santly :  the  edges  being  lightly  turned  up  with  the 
wooden  spoon  every  now  and  then.  If  you  turn 
your  head,  or  cease  shaking  for  a  moment,  the  omelet 
will  be  spoiled.  Four  minutes  should  be  quite  enough 
to  cook  the  inside  thoroughly,  and  yet  leave  the  out- 
side of  a  rich,  yellowish-brown  colour,  but  the  time 
required  to  attain  this  result  will  entirely  depend  on 
the  fire.  Too  fierce  a  fire  will  burn  the  omelet  before 
it  has  had  time  to  set  or  become  thoroughly  cooked, 
and  yet  a  clear  brisk  fire  is  necessary.  As  soon  as  it 
begins  to  assume  the  shape  of  a  small  plate  and  the 
colour  of  a  golden  pippin,  take  your  wooden  spoon 
once  more  and  dexterously  double  it  over,  serve  it  in 
an  exceedingly  hot  dish,  and  eat  it  whilst  it  is  still 
sputtering  and  frothing.  The  only  things  requisite 
in  an  omelet  are,  presence  of  mind  and  prompt- 
ness of  action.  Timidity  and  hesitation  have  ruined 
many  an  omelet,  and  it  is  better  to  practise  as 
often  as  may  be  necessary,  before  serving  up  a 
failure. 

In  fritters,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  dissolved 
butter  are  beaten  into  a  batter,  and  the  slices  of  fruit, 
previously  dipped  in  finely-powdered  sugar,  dropped 
into  the  mixture,  to  which,  by  the  way,  the  well- 
whisked  whites  of  the  eggs  must  be  added  at  the  last 
moment.  Then  the  slices  of  fruit,  with  the  batter 


86  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 


adhering  to  them,  may  be  placed  in  the  buttered 
frying-pan  for  a  moment  or  two  just  to  get  lightly 
cooked,  and  the  pan  should  be  kept  well  shaken 
during  the  process. 


LESSON  XL 

BACON. 

AMERICAN  bacon  is  considerably  lower  in  price  than 
English  bacon,  but  it  shrinks  more  when  boiled,  and 
you  can  get  a  larger  number  of  slices  from  a  given 
weight  of  English  bacon  than  can  be  obtained  from 
the  other.  Pork  is  the  great  stand-by  of  the  poor 
man's  dietary,  by  reason  of  its  strong  flavour  as  well 
as  its  low  price,  and  the  relish  it  affords  to  mono- 
tonous and  insipid  fare.  The  dripping  from  fried 
bacon  is  often  preferred  by  children  to  the  rancid 
stuff  sold  as  butter  to  the  poor  ;  and  in  any  case  the 
fat  from  bacon  is  more  palatable  with  cabbage  or 
potatoes  than  the  suet  of  either  beef  or  mutton  could 
possibly  be.  It  is  easier  to  carry  when  cold  into  the 
fields ;  and  another  great  advantage  of  bacon  is  that 
it  requires  less  fire  to  cook  it,  and  fewer  utensils. 
From  a  scientific  point  of  view,  a  diet  in  which 
bacon  is  the  principal  meat,  needs  to  be  largely 
supplemented  by  milk  and  other  highly  nitrogenous 
food,  for  it  contains  very  little  nitrogen  itself,  and 
we  know  that  nitrogen  is  of  great  importance  to 


LESS.  XL]         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  87 

the  blood.  Bacon  supplies  a  fair  amount  of  carbon, 
and  does  not  therefore  require  the  aid  of  bread. 
With  the  addition  of  a  little  pea-meal,  the  liquor 
in  which  bacon  has  been  boiled  makes  a  good  soup, 
and  it  would  be  improved  both  in  flavour  and 
nutritive  value  by  a  few  potatoes  and  an  onion  being 
boiled  in  it. 

But  as  a  general  rule,  however  valuable  the  pig  may 
be  in  an  economical  sense,  it  is  quite  certain  that  pork 
is  less  wholesome  than  almost  any  other  meat.  For 
the  reasons  why  this  should  be  so,  we  must  go  in  the 
first  place  to  the  habits  and  ways  of  the  animal  itself, 
its  absence  of  any  guiding  instinct  about  food — for 
quantity,  not  quality,  appears  to  be  the  first  principle 
of  a  pig's  diet — and  the  motionless  life  it  leads.  Pigs 
which  are  turned  out  in  a  field  run  about  too  much 
to  grow  fat,  and  therefore,  if  it  be  necessary  to  use  the 
animal  for  food,  it  is  speedily  relegated  to  its  sty. 
There  it  never  does  anything  except  sleep  and  eat, 
and  this  want  of  exercise  tells  not  only  on  the  inor- 
dinate growth  of  fat  which  is  laid  up  outside  the  body, 
but  upon  the  muscles  and  fibres  of  the  flesh,  which 
become  hard  and  indigestible.  The  pig  stores  up  in 
its  body  three  times  more  of  its  food  than  the  ox,  and 
from  its  large  proportion  of  fat  is  not  of  equal  value 
with  beef  or  mutton  in  nourishing  the  system  of  those 
who  need  to  make  much  muscular  exertion.  The  leg 
of  pork  is  the  part  of  the  body  which,  if  deprived  of 
its  large  proportion  of  fat,  approaches  the  most  nearly 
to  the  nourishing  elements  of  beef  or  mutton.  How 


88  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

ever,  I  do  not  for  a  moment  expect  that  any  scientific 
theories  for  or  against  pork  will  have  any  ill  effect  on 
the  keeping  of  pigs  or  the  curing  of  bacon.  Happy 
is  the  family  which  can  keep  a  pig ;  therefore,  what 
does  it  matter  whether  it  be  a  "  highly  nitrogenous 
food  "  or  not?  Piggy  pays  the  rent,  and  furnishes 
the  "  childer  "  with  many  a  savoury  bite  besides.  In 
fact,  if  any  food  can,  in  these  high-priced  days,  be 
called  economic,  bacon  deserves  the  name,  for  it 
goes  further  than  any  other  meat.  My  remarks, 
therefore,  must  be  taken  to  apply  only  to  those  who 
have  a  choice,  and  who  therefore  should  use  it  more 
as  a  relish  than  as  the  principal  ingredient  in  the 
family  bill  of  fare. 


LESSON  XII. 

THE    GIST    OF    THE    WHOLE    MATTER. 

Now  let  us  sum  up  what  we  have  been  trying  to  teach 
and  to  learn  in  this  little  book.  To  begin  with,  we 
will  run  through  the  first  part,  which  is  perhaps  rather 
alarming  on  account  of  its  hard  words,  and  see  what 
has  been  said. 

No  one  will  deny  the  importance  of  urging  rich  and 
poor  alike,  in  the  present  state  of  things,  to  try  and 
economize  the  fuel  and  food  which  they  may  have  at 
their  disposal.  When  I  use  the  word  economize,  and 


LESS.  xii.  1        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING. 


apply  it  to  rich  people,  I  mean  it  to  bear  a  wider 
significance  than  when  I  speak  of  the  very  poor,  with 
whom  it  is  an  absolute  necessity.  It  is  just  because 
there  is  not  this  absolute  necessity  on  the  score  of 
expenditure,  that  a  due  attention  to  the  principles 
of  economy  in  food  and  fuel  sits  so  gracefully  on  a 
rich  person.  I  do  not  mean  that  only  two  fires  should 
be  lighted  in  a  splendid  mansion,  or  that  its  inmates 
should  gather  every  day  around  a  dinner  of  bone- 
soup  or  a  lunch  of  bread  and  cheese.  That  would 
of  course  be  absurd  nonsense,  and  no  one  is  so 
short-sighted  as  not  to  perceive  that  such  economy 
would  starve  a  good  many  thousand  people  in  other 
grades  of  life.  What  I  mean  is,  that  in  all  house- 
holds, beginning  with  those  costly  establishments 
where  the  duty  devolves  on  a  steward  or  house- 
keeper, there  should  be  such  arrangements,  such 
training,  such  recognized  principles,  that  the  possi- 
bility of  waste  should  be  reduced  to  the  lowest  point. 
Everyone  will  acknowledge  that  in  what  are  called 
"  great  kitchens/'  the  "  waste," — the  broken  victuals, 
scraps,  crusts,  bones,  and  so  forth — would  feed  many 
a  poor  and  hungry  family.  All  I  say,  then,  is  :  "  Let 
it  feed  such  families  :  don't  let  it  be  thrown  away,  or 
sold  as  refuse. ".  When  we  have  made  the  most  of 
everything,  there  will  still  be  quite  enough  refuse  in 
the  world,  without  adding  to  it  portions  of  food  which 
would  be  a  boon  and  a  blessing  to  a  starving  child. 
The  same  with  fuel  Let  people  who  can  afford  to 
pay  for  coals  have  as  many  fires  as  they  choose,  but 


90  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  HI. 

let  them  take  care  that  the  coals  are  fairly  used  and 
made  the  most  of,  cinders  and  all,  so  will  there  be 
more  left  in  the  market  for  those  to  whom  a  hundred- 
weight of  coal  is  of  more  importance  than  is  a  ton  to 
a  rich  man.  Let  such  people  have  grates  and  stoves, 
and  all  the  new  inventions  for  the  economy  of  fuel, 
and  then,  if  everybody  makes  a  conscience  of  being 
careful  with  their  coals — economical  without  being 
stingy,  but  insisting  on  every  cinder  being  duly  used, 
or  even  given  away,  instead  of  finding  its  way  into  the 
dust-hole — we  shall  not  perhaps  have  constant  alarms 
of  scarcity  and  famine  prices. 

So  much  can  rich  people  do  to  help  j  but  those  in 
the  lower  grades  of  society  can  do  a  great  deal  more ; 
and  I  am  persuaded  that  the  chief  reason  a  great  deal 
more  is  not  done  is  because  people  don't  know  how 
to  do  it.  The  mistress  of  a  middle-class  household 
considers  that  she  fulfils  the  whole  duties  of  her 
position  by  giving  a  few  languid  orders  to  her  ser- 
vants, which  they  obey  or  not,  according  to  their 
several  dispositions.  By  all  means  let  her  confine 
herself  to  this  feeble  style  of  housekeeping  until  she 
knows  how  the  things  should  be  done,  for  until  then 
it  is  better  she  should  not  interfere.  If  everything 
was  exactly  as  it  should  be,  if  cooks  knew  not 
only  how  to  lay  and  light  fires,  but  to  cook  ex- 
quisitely, it  would  be  very  delightful,  and  we  might 
all  live  happy  ever  after.  But,  unfortunately,  we 
seem  to  be  a  long  way  from  such  a  desirable  state 
of  things  ;  and  complaints  of  the  bad,  and  an  outcry 


LESS.  XIL]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  91 

for  good,  servants  grow  louder  every  year.  Now,  it 
appears  to  me  that  good  mistresses  are  just  as  much 
needed  as  good  servants,  mistresses  who  are  capable 
of  explaining  kindly  and  clearly  to  a  servant  how  and 
why  their  duties — or  such  portion  of  their  duties  as 
they  are  ignorant  of — should  be  performed.  Expla- 
nation is  a  good  deal  better  than  scolding,  and  the 
practical  knowledge  from  which  such  explanations 
should  spring  is  quite  compatible  with  the  utmost 
refinement  and  cultivation  of  the  mind.  I  don't 
want  ladies  to  do  the  servants'  work ;  I  only  want 
them  to  have  the  opportunity  of  learning  to  ex- 
plain how  such  work  should  be  performed,  and 
to  understand,  even  in  theory,  why  and  wherefore 
certain  causes  bring  about  certain  results  in  domestic 
economy. 

Let  us  take  the  mistress  of  an  ordinary  middle- 
class  household,  a  household  where  the  husband 
works  hard  to  make  an  income  of  from  5oo/.  to 
i,ooo/.  a  year,  on  which  four  or  five  children  have 
to  be  educated  and  set  forth  in  the  world,  and 
perhaps  relations  to  be  helped  besides  (for  poor 
people  generally  have  to  help  their  relations).  Ten 
years  ago  it  would  have  been,  for  that  rank  of  life, 
almost  a  large  income.  Nowadays  it  is  a  very  small 
one,  and  it  has  therefore  become  more  than  ever  of 
grave  importance  that  the  person  on  whom  its 
management  chiefly  depends  should  know  something 
besides  music  and  drawing.  Well,  then,  this  typical 
lady  shall  be  amiable,  intelligent  anxious  to  do  her 


92  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  m. 


best  for  her  family  and  household,  and  yet  what 
state  of  things  shall  we  be  tolerably  sure  to  find  in 
such  a  house  ?  In  the  nursery,  "  Missis  "  is  all  that 
is  capable  and  useful.  She  thoroughly  understands 
how  to  provide  for  the  health  and  pretty  toilettes  of 
her  nice  little  children.  She  and  Nurse  get  on  very 
well ;  they  have  a  mutual  respect  and  confidence  in 
each  other's  "  knowledgeableness,"  and  a  thorough 
belief  in  each  other's  capacity.  All  is  right  at  the 
top  of  the  house.  On  the  next  story  the  lady  is  not 
quite  so  certain  of  her  ground.  She  has  indeed 
slender  theories  on  the  subject  of  dust,  and,  we  will 
hope,  a  wholesome  love  of  fresh  air,  but  a  new  house- 
maid will  probably  find  that  she  can  do  pretty  much 
as  she  likes  in  her  own  department. 

But  it  is  not  till  we  come  down  to  the  kitchen  that 
we  begin  to  suspect  there  is  a  screw  loose  somewhere. 
If  our  lady  has  been  fortunate  enough  to  stumble 
upon  a  cook  who  for  i4/.  or  i6/.  a  year  will  cook 
savoury  meals  for  her  every  day  of  her  life ;  a  cook 
who  is  as  clean  as  she  is  clever,  and  as  honest  as  she 
is  sober,  then  indeed  there  will  be  peace  and  harmony 
in  that  establishment,  unless  the  cook  should  happen 
to  have  a  bad  temper.  But  how  is  it  if  the  cook  be 
merely  an  ignorant,  honest,  "  willing  "  young  woman  ? 
Who  is  to  teach  her  ?  How  and  where  is  she  to  be 
trained  ?  That  has  hitherto  been  the  great  difficulty 
of  English  middle-class  life,  and  it  is  to  remove,  or 
at  all  events  to  give  those  who  wish  it  an  opportunity 
of  removing  it,  that  the  National  School  of  Cookery 


LESS,  xii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKTKG.  93 


is  to  be  established  at  South  Kensington.  Everything 
cannot  be  done  in  a  moment ;  unsuspected  needs  will 
crop  up,  an  extended  sphere  will  necessitate  wider 
arrangements  ;  but  I  can  safely  affirm  that  the  point 
which  will  be  steadily  kept  in  view  by  the  Committee 
is  this  great  need  of  the  English  people — the  want  of 
some  place  where  a  girl  or  woman  can  be  taught  how 
to  cook.  It  is  not  necessary  for  ladies  to  bend  over 
the  fire  and  harden  their  palms  with  saucepan  handles, 
for  it  is  easier  to  teach  an  educated  person  by  theory 
than  an  uneducated  one ;  and  a  lady  will  carry  away 
a  great  deal  of  useful  knowledge  from  a  lecture  where 
a  cook-maid  would  have  been  swamped  by  words 
and  phrases  above  her  capacity.  There  will  therefore 
be  both  forms  of  education ;  but,  so  far  as  my  own 
experience  goes,  and  speaking  confidentially,  I  should 
have  been  very  thankful  for  both  opportunities  oi 
practical  instruction  before  I  went  to  New  Zealand. 
I  might  then  perhaps  have  been  saved  many  an 
anxious  moment,  to  say  nothing  of  constant  culinary 
discomfiture.  I  did  go  down  to  a  friend's  kitchen 
more  than  once,  and  try  what  knowledge  I  could  pick 
up,  but  I  was  so  bewildered  by  the  size  and  splen- 
dour of  the  batterie- de-cuisine,  and  the  cook  would 
persist  in  regarding  my  desire  for  information  as  either 
a  whim  or  a  joke  on  my  part,  so  that  it  ended  by  my 
learning  nothing  whatever  which  proved  of  any  prac- 
tical use  to  me.  To  begin  with,  I  could  not  explain 
to  the  cook  what  I  wanted  to  know;  I  could  not  even 
say  where  my  ignorance  began  or  where  it  ended, 


94  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in 

though  indeed  I  found  out  afterwards  that  it  would 
have  been  well  to  have  established  some  infallible 
test  for  ascertaining  when  the  kettle  boiled.  What 
experiments  even  in  this  line  were  necessary  when  I 
set  up  for  myself  !  including  one  recipe  of  turning 
the  kitchen  poker  into  a  sort  of  tuning-fork,  and  hold- 
ing the  handle  to  my  ear,  whilst  the  poker-point 
rested  on  the  lid  of  the  kettle.  That  method  soon 
fell  into  disfavour,  for  it  used  generally  to  result  in 
upsetting  the  whole  affair  and  extinguishing  the 
kitchen  fire. 

Well,  then,  to  return  to  the  purpose  of  this  slender 
volume.  If  it  even  awakens  a  sense  of  ignorance  in 
its  readers,  something  will  have  been  gained,  for  I  am 
much  mistaken  in  my  knowledge  of  women  of  my 
own  class  and  position  in  life,  as  well  as  of  those 
in  a  higher  rank,  if,  when  once  they  feel  the  need 
of  practical  instruction  and  improvement  in  their 
domestic  arrangements,  the  next  step  will  not  be  to 
endeavour  to  acquire  that  knowledge.  Also,  I  hope 
and  believe  that  the  artisan's  young  wife,  who 
feels  the  commissariat  and  cooking  a  heavy  burthen 
on  her  mind  and  her  hands,  will  set  to  work  to 
learn  how  and  why  certain  food-substances  are  more 
wholesome  and  therefore  more  economical  than 
others,  and  in  what  fashion  they  should  be  cooked 
so  as  to  make  them  go  further  and  render  them 
palatable. 

Lower  than  this  grade  in  our  social  scale  it  seems 
hard  to  go.  It  is  too  much  to  expect  the  crowds 


LESS.  xii.         PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  95 

whose  daily  bread  is  a  perpetual  miracle,  to  have  the 
time  and  the  means  to  learn  to  cook  better.  When 
it  is  generally  a  matter  of  chance  and  locality  what 
sort  of  food  they  can  provide  for  themselves  and 
their  children,  it  seems  a  bitter  mockery  to  tell  them 
this,  that,  and  the  other  is  the  most  nourishing  diet, 
or  to  recommend  rump-steaks  to  them  instead  of 
bread  and  dripping.  But  here,  those  rich  and  bene- 
volent people,  whose  comforts  and  luxuries  have  been 
and  will  be  secured  to  themselves  and  their  families 
for  many  a  day,  may  possibly  find  another  outlet  for 
that  spring  of  human  sympathy  and  charity  which — 
whatever  pessimists  may  say  to  the  contrary — runs 
bright  and  sparkling  beneath  our  natures,  and  wells 
up  to  make  many  a  green  and  blessed  spot  in  our 
own  lives  and  those  of  others. 

Let  us  look  for  a  momerut  at  our  country  villages, 
and  think  how  often  it  happens  that  the  Squire's  and 
the  Rector's  wife  is  asked  to  take  some  well-behaved 
cottage-girl  and  "  learn  "  her  to  cook. 

With  the  best  will  in  world,  what  can  these  kind 
ladies  do  ?  With  a  sigh  they  will  consent,  and  return 
home  to  announce — probably  with  some  trepidation — 
to  their  cook,  that  "  a  new  girl "  is  coming.  This 
means  a  year  of  misery  and  discomfort  to  everybody* 
The  cook  does  not  care  about  teaching  the  girl,  and 
will  most  likely  take  but  slender  pains  to  do  so, 
The  girl  feels  that  she  is  only  on  sufferance  in  the 
kitchen,  and  is  in  a  false  position  there,  besides.  It 
will  probably  be  very  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  for 


90  FIRS7  LESSON'S  IN  THE         [PART  in. 

her  to  get  anything  like  a  regular  useful  lesson  from 
her  aggrieved  instructress.  Everything  that  is  broken 
in  the  kitchen  is  laid  to  her  charge,  and  at  the  end 
ot  the  year  I  question  whether,  even  under  the  most 
favourable  circumstances,  such  a  girl  can  possibly 
have  learned  anything  which  will  be  of  real  practical 
value  to  her.  As  soon  as  ever  she  begins  to  have 
a  dawning  idea  on  the  subject  of  a  mutton-chop, 
she  must  go  elsewhere  and  make  room  for  another 
beginner.  Now,  the  same  money  which  would  keep 
this  girl  for  a  year,  would  give  her  proper  instruc- 
tion in  a  proper  place. 

How  constantly  it  happens  that  a  young  woman 
who  is  happily  placed  as  housemaid  or  nursemaid,  or 
apprenticed  to  a  trade,  loses  her  mother,  and  it  be- 
comes absolutely  necessary  that  she  should  give  up 
her  situation  and  return  home  to  fill,  as  best  she  may, 
her  mother's  vacant  place.  Such  a  girl  has  probably 
never  cooked  a  meal  for  herself  in  her  life.  She  may 
return  home  with  an  earnest  and  affectionate  desire 
to  do  her  best  for  her  father's  and  brothers'  comfort, 
but  can  she  know  by  inspiration  how  to  cook  their 
meals  ?  Even  in  my  own  limited  experience  I  have 
repeatedly  heard  laments  on  this  score,  and  felt  my- 
self at  the  same  time  quite  powerless  to  help  beyond 
the  vague  suggestion  that  the  beginner  should  ask 
Mrs.  So-and-so  to  show  her  a  little  how  to  cook ;  Mrs. 
So-and-so  knowing  probably  very  little  herself. 

Many  hundreds  and  thousands  of  people  in  London 
and  our  other  cities  and  watering-places  live,  at  all 


LESS,  xii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  97 

events  for  a  certain  portion  of  the  year,  in  lodgings, 
or,  as  they  are  more  elegantly  styled,  furnished  apart- 
ments. Imagine  a  monster  meeting  of  lodgers  in  the 
Albert  Hall,  assembled  to  proclaim  their  greatest 
grievance.  Would  there  not  be  one  universal  roar  of 
"The  food"? 

I  have  occasionally  lived  in  lodgings  myself,  and 
I  can  speak  from  my  own  experience,  feeling  con- 
fident that  it  will  represent  the  experience  of  a  con- 
siderable portion  of  the  houseless  community.  I 
found  invariably  civility,  generally  cleanliness  (or  at 
all  events  that  is  a  remediable  evil),  and,  with  scarcely 
any  exception,  vile  food.  When  I  complained,  the 
stereotyped  answer,  given  in  a  very  hopeless  tone; 
used  to  be :  "  Well,  ma'am,  I  know  it's  not  exactly 
right,  but  it's  the  gal ;  you  see,  she  don't  know  nothing; 
and  I  can't  cook  myself,  not  to  say  well."  Now,  whj- 
can't  the  "  gal "  cook,  poor  soul  ?  Has  she  ever  been 
taught,  or  had  even  a  chance  of  learning?  Do  wt 
put  ever  so  willing  a  man  to  fire  an  Armstrong  gun 
or  set  up  type  without  the  slightest  previous  instruc- 
tion on  the  subject  ?  Why  should  a  "  gal  "  be  taken 
from  her  school  life  (this  is  imagining  the  most  favour- 
able conditions),  and  suddenly  be  expected  to  know 
how  to  cook,  especially  when  her  teacher  is  con- 
fessedly as  ignorant  as  herself?  The  only  bright 
exception  to  this  rule  is  when  a  girl  has  had  the  rare 
good  fortune  to  be  trained  in  some  charitable  institu- 
tion, where  she  has  been  properly  taught  to  cook  as 
weJl  as  to  scrub  and  clean,  and  to  keep  herself  neat 

H 


98  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE          [PART  in. 

and  tidy,  even  whilst  she  is  working.  Yet,  as  I  write 
the  words  "  rare  good  fortune,"  a  remorseful  pang 
comes  over  me ;  for,  however  such  training  may 
benefit  the  poor  child  and  her  employers  in  after 
years,  it  has  probably  been  necessary,  in  order  for 
her  to  be  admitted  into  such  an  institution,  that  she 
should  have  been  a  waif  or  stray,  an  orphan,  or  a 
poor  deserted  child,  or  exceptionally  wretched  in 
some  way,  and  it  is  from  her  very  homelessness  and 
helplessness  that  what  I  find  myself  calling  her  "  rare 
good  fortune  "  has  sprung. 

I  have  already  alluded  in  another  place  (page  36) 
to  the  case  of  the  domestic  servant  who  has  been  a 
housemaid  or  a  nursemaid,  or  waited  on  ladies,  and 
who  perhaps  marries  and  finds  herself  in  a  nice  little 
home  which  it  becomes  her  duty  to  keep  bright  and 
clean.  She  can  do  everything  except  cook,  but  I 
venture  to  say  she  will  find  this  a  great  difficulty,  and 
there  will  be  a  good  deal  of  unconscious  waste  and 
extravagance  before  even  the  Rubicon  of  fried  bacon 
is  passed. 

It  would  be  a  good  opportunity  for  this  class  of 
servants  to  learn  cooking  at  the  National  School  when 
families  go  out  of  town  for  the  autumn,  and  two 
or  three  servants  are  left  in  an  empty  house  to  while 
away  a  couple  of  months  as  best  they  can.  I  do  not 
want  to  curtail  or  interfere  with  any  one's  holiday,  but 
it  could  scarcely  be  a  grievance  to  a  yonng  woman 
who  is  perhaps  looking  forward  to  a  little  home  of 
her  own  some  not  very  distant  day,  to  have  the 


LESS.  XIL]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  99 

opportunity  of  taking  lessons  in  the  art  of  cooking 
her  husband's  meals.  Many  of  our  subscribers  may 
be  fortunate  enough  to  possess  cooks  who  are  masters 
or  mistresses  of  their  science,  and  to  whom  the  word 
instruction  dare  not  be  mentioned.  What  I  would 
venture  to  suggest  to  such  people  is,  that  although 
they  may  not  need  instruction  for  their  cooks,  they 
might  utilize  the  advantages  which  their  subscriptions 
will  give  them,  for  the  benefit  of  their  younger  ser- 
vants or  even  of  their  tenants'  daughters. 

The  great  point  which  I  have  reason  to  believe 
the  Committee  of  the  National  School  of  Cookery 
will  insist  upon  is,  thoroughness.  No  one  will  be 
allowed  to  run,  or  try  to  run,  before  she  can  walk. 
The  elementary  knowledge  of  how  to  light  and  manage 
a  kitchen  fire,  of  scrupulous  cleanliness  in  pots  and 
pans,  of  attention  to  a  thousand  small  but  all-im- 
portant details,  will  be  taught  and  insisted  upon  be- 
fore the  learner  is  allowed  to  do  anything  worthy  of 
the  name  of  cooking.  She  will  then  probably  be 
surprised  to  find  how  comparatively  easy  it  will  be 
to  acquire  the  art,  and  she  may  be  very  sure  she 
will  not  be  allowed  to  try  a  second  thing  until  she 
can  do  the  first,  if  it  be  only  boiling  a  kettle  or  toast- 
ing a  piece  of  bread  to  perfection. 

Such  is  the  plan  for  complete  beginners — who,  by 
the  way,  generally  prove  the  most  successful  pupils  ;— 
but  for  servants  or  artisans'  wives  who  wish  to  u  better ' 
themselves  in  their  kitchens,  there  will  be  a  different 
mode  of  instruction,  into  which  we  need  not  enter 


ioo  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  [PART  in. 

here.  Ladies  will  also  have  an  opportunity  either  of 
sitting  in  a  chair  and  listening^,  a  lecture  or  series 
of  lectures  on  cooking,  begB^jfetwith  a  mutton- 
chop  and  ending  with  a  souffle^  or  they  may  turn 
back  their  sleeves,  take  off  their  rings  and  bracelets, 
and  try  for  themselves.  It  will  be  hard  if  any  eager 
inquirer  does  not  find  some  course  or  class  to  meet 
her  needs ;  and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  whatever  excuse 
may  hereafter  be  urged  for  our  national  bad  cookery, 
the  reproach  of  the  want  of  a  place  and  opportunity 
of  instruction  will  be  done  away  with  for  ever. 

There  is  but  one  parting  remark  I  have  to  make. 
It  is  this.  The  National  School  of  Cookery  is  not 
a  mercantile  undertaking.  I  have  no  wish  to  attempt 
to  throw  discredit  upon  such  undertakings,  but  simply 
to  state  the  School  of  Cookery  at  South  Kensington 
is  not  one.  There  will  be  no  question  of  dividends  or 
bonuses,  nor  will  there  be  shareholders  whose  interests 
and  pockets  must  be  considered.  The  School  has  every 
reason  to  expect  that  it  will  be  liberally  supported  by 
contributions  and  donations ;  if  it  finds  itself  mistaken 
in  that  expectation,  it  will  close  its  doors,  and  there 
will  be  no  harm  done  to  anybody.  It  is  managed  by 
a  Committee  of  gentlemen  whose  names  are  a  sufficient 
guarantee  for  their  actions,  and  no  one  of  them  will 
be  individually  a  penny  the  richer  or  the  poorer, 
whether  the  undertaking  succeeds  or  not.  If  the 
School  be  well  and  liberally  supported,  it  will  be  a 
sign  that  the  need  of  improvement  in  cooking  is  felt 
by  all  classes,  and  for  every  shilling  subscribed  it  is 


LESS,  xii.]        PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING.  101 

the  intention  of  the  Committee  to  afford  means  of 
instruction.  The  more  money  which  is  forthcoming, 
the  more  widely-spread  will  be  the  benefit  which  the 
promoters  of  the  National  School  of  Cookery  hope 
and  believe  it  is  capable  of  producing. 


THE    END. 


LONDON  I   RICHARD  CLA\   &  SONS,   PRINTERS, 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any 
University  of  California  Library 

or  to  the 

NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

•  2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 
(510)642-6753 

•  1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing 
books  to  NRLF 

•  Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4 
days  prior  to  due  date. 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


FEB  2  8  2001 


