^^^ 


PERIODICAL 


i 


"^ 


r 


h^: 


f^ 


cKviooi li?) 


^ 


->£>*. 


M 


..^ 


OlN/E  N     BV 


I 


« 


riHu  .    '^ 

flAV  "1  H 

/ 

A.W1AY  4' 

HAH  -S    ^ 
IS    riPR   9 

BULLETIN 

or  THE  ■" 

American  School  ofjipme  Economics 

Published  quarterly  and  entered  at  Chicago  as  second- 
class    MATTER    UNDER   ACT   OF     COIWJRESS   OF   JULY  16,     1894 

Series  I  MARCH,  1914  No.  34 


FIVE  CENT  MEALS 


PRICE  10  CENTS 

(LN  LOTS  OF  100,  5  CENTS) 


CHICAGO 

506  WEST  SIXTY-NINTH  STREET 

ILLINOIS 

U 


INTRODUCTION 


THIS  Bulletin  is  a  part  of  the  book  Low  Cost  Cooking* 
by  Miss  Florence  Nesbitt,  Field  Supervisor  and 
Dietitian  of  the  Department  of  Relief  of  the  Juvenile 
Court  of  Chicago,  and  formerly  one  of  the  visiting  house- 
keepers of  the  United  Charities  of  Chicago. 

The  book  and  bulletin  give  instructions  for  providing 
wholesome  and  palatable  meals  at  the  least  possible  expense, 
with  simple  equipment  and  reasonable  expenditure  of  time. 
Recipes  give  quantities  suitable  for  serving  families  of  six 
with  two  adults,  or  seven  with  one  adult. 

With  careful  buying  and  with  little  or  no  waste  the 
meals  given  can  be  provided  for  fifteen  cents  per  day  per 
person — hence  the  title  of  the  bulletin,  'Tive-Cent  Meals." 
By  buying  in  wholesale  quantities  the  cost  might  be  made 
less,  but  retail  city  prices  at  the  cheapest  stores,  under 
ordinary  conditions  are  intended.  In  such  a  dietary  no 
butter,  high-priced  meats  or  fruits  or  vegetables,  and 
few  kinds  of  canned  goods  can  be  included ;  few  eggs  at 
high  prices  can  be  used,  though  desirable  for  the  chil- 
dren. A  fair  quantity  of  milk  is  included  because  it  is 
necessary  for  the  health  of  young  children.  Reliance  must 
be  placed  chiefly  on  the  flours  and  meals,  sugar,  meat  and 
cheese  at  low  prices,  dried  beans  and  peas,  winter  vege- 
tables, dried  fruits,  oleomargarine  in  place  of  butter,  and 
''drippings"  in  place  of  lard. 

Too  often  poor  cooking  and  the  way  the  money  is 
spent  rather  than  the  amount,  accounts  for  under  nutri- 
tion and  under  development  of  the  children.  It  is  in  the 
hope  of  assisting  in  the  immensely  important  problem  of 
feeding  the  family  on  little  that  the  book  and  bulletin  are 
published  by  the  American  School  of  Home  Economies. 

'^The  price  of  Lozv  Cost  Cooking  for  single  copies  is  50  cents  post- 
paid, on  approval ;  in  lots  of  twenty  or  more,  25  cents,  direct  from 
American  School  of  Home  Economics,  506  W.  69th  St.,  Chicago. 


AMERICAN  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 
CHICAGO 

February.  1915 

Dear  Friend; 

This  Bulletin  "Five  Cent  Meals"  explains  itself,  the  book 
"Low  Cost  Cooking"  is  not  yet  completed.   Although  written  for 
a  special  purpose,  the  Bulletin  is  sent  to  all  members.   The 
address  of  many  of  our  15,000  members  is  uncertain  and  no  doubt 
a  thousand  or  more  Bulletins  will  be  wasted.   This  is  quite  an 
item. 

NOTE.  No  further  Bulletins  will  be  sent  to  members  from  whom 
we  have  not  heard  for  one  (1)  year. 

In  this  connection  I  beg  to  remind  many  members  that  they 
were  enrolled  in  the  School  for  one  year  only,  the  privileges  to 
be  continued  indefinitely  provided  they  sent  eight  or  more  names 
of  acquaintances  who  might  be  interested  in  our  courses,  at  the 
end  of  the  year.   The  sending  of  names  is  vital  to  the  progress 
and  prosperity  of  the  School.   We  shall  deeply  appreciate  the 
courtesy  of  all  who  send  in  names.   Use  this  sheet.   Your  name 
will  NOT  be  mentioned. 

On  the  last  page  of  this  Bulletin  you  will  find  a  condensed 
synopsis  of  the  new  course  "HOUSEHOLD  ENGINEERING,  SCIENTIFIC 
MANAGEMENT  IN  THE  HOME".   This  is  the  next  step  beyond  house- 
hold science,  which  as  you  know,  tells  the  "Why"  and  "Where- 
fore" in  household  affairs.   Household  Engineering  is  the  HOW 
in  detail — methods,  arrangements  and  tools  for  doing  the  work  of 
the  home  in  the  easiest,  quickest  and  most  effective  way. 

Our  present  courses  go  into  this  to  some  extent,  but  Mrs. 
Frederick  has  applied  the  new  scientific  management  and 
efficiency  engineering  to  the  everyday  tasks  of  housekeeping. 
Naturally  the  great  majority  of  our  members  are  "good  house- 
keepers", but  this  Household  Engineering  achieves  results  equal 
to  those  in  other  long  established  trades  and  industries.   For 
example,  in  bricklaying  scientific  management  has  doubled  the 
number  of  bricks  laid  with  less  effort  to  the  workman.   In 
housekeeping  it  means  doing  the  work  better  in  a  third  to  a  half 
less  time.   Impossible  you  say,  but  that  is  what  the  masons 
said! 

Household  Engineering  gives  a  new  and  fascinating  viewpoint 
to  old  and  familiar  tasks.   I  am  sure  you  will  find  the  new 
course  intensely  interesting.   It  will  be  divided  into  twelve 
parts — pamphlets  of  from  forty  to  sixty  pages,  abundantly  illus- 
trated, with  a  brief  series  of  questions  (not  over  five)  to  be 
sent  in  on  each  part.   The  twelve  parts  will  be  sent  one  per 
month  whether  the  reports  are  made  or  not.   The  tuition  fee  of 
the  course  will  be  S12.00  or  S15.00  when  completed.   To  those 


who  receive  this  Bulletin  we  make  an  introductory  price  of 
S5,00 — $1.00  now  before  Part  I  is  issued  and  SI. 00  on  receipt  of 
each  of  the  first  four  parts,  or  you  may  pay  S4.50  in  full  now. 
As  with  all  of  our  courses,  payments  are  on  approval.  If  Part 
I  and  II  do  not  suit  you,  you  may  return  them  and  the  money  paid 
will  be  returned  to  you  . 

Use  the  coupon  below  if  you  wish  to  be  with  us  in  our  "next 
step  forward." 

Sincerely  yours. 


Director 


INTRODUCTORY  PRICE  COUPON— Void  March  31,  1915 

Date 1915 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 
506  West  69th  St.,  Chicago.  III. 
Please  enroll  me  in  your  new  course  "Household  Engineering"  in  twelve  (12)  parts— illustrated,  to 
be  sent  one  Part  a  month  or  as  fast  as  completed;  correspondence  instruction  with  ail  membership  privi  - 
leges  to  be  included. 

1  enclose  $1 .00  as  first  payment  and  will  pay  $1 .00  on  receipt  of  Part  I,  $1 .00  on  receipt  of  Part  II. 
Part  III  and  Part  IV.  making  $5-00  in  all.  (or)  I  enclose  $4,50  in  full  payment.  .  ,      .„ , 

It  is  understood,  that  if  Parts  1  and  II  are  not  satisfactory.  I  may  return  them  and  all  money  paid  will  be 
returned. 


SIGNED 


ADDRESS- 


Kindly  give  names  of  acquaintances  who  may  be  interested  m  taking  this  Course  or  in  the     Librao'  of 
Home  Economics"  your  name  not  to  be  mentioned.     In  return  we  will  send  you  our  bulletin,     free- Hand 
Cooking."  or   Food  Values"   or  "The  Up-To-Date  Home.  Money  and  Labor-Saving  Appliances, 
or  "Five  Cent  Meals."    WHICH? 


BREAKFAST 

Monday 

CORN    MEAL   GRIDDLE   CAKES    WITH    CARAMEL   SYRUP 

FRIED    BACON    STRIP 

COFFEE   FOR   ADULTS,    MILK    FOR   CHILDREN 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 

2  cups  cornmeal  ij^     cups     liquid,     milk     and 

1  cup   flour  water   mixed 

2  tablespoons    melted    drip-     6  teaspoons  baking  powder 
pings  i^  teaspoons  salt 

^lix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  liquid  and  mix  quickly. 
Have  ready  a  hot  greased  griddle  or  frying  pan,  drop  the 
mixture  in  by  tablespoonfuls,  as  many  as  the  pan  will  hold 
without  their  touching.  Cook  on  slow  fire  until  the  cakes 
are  brown  on  the  lower  side  and  the  bubbles  burst  in  the 
top;  turn  each  cake  to  brown  on  the  other  side.  Cook  in 
this  way  until  the  batter  is  all  used.      Serve  hot. 

"Drippings" 

By  drippings  is  meant  the  fat  from  roasting,  frying  or 
boiling  meat,  fat  trimmings,  etc.  Eicvy  bit  of  fat  coining 
into  the  house  should  he  saved  and  used. 

When  more  fat  is  needed  the  soft  tiank  fat  of  beef  or 
pork,  which  sells  for  about  lo  cents  a  pound,  may  be  used. 
Cut  the  fat  into  small  pieces,  removing  any  skin  and  bits 
of  meat.  Cover  with  cold  salted  water  and  let  stand  for 
4  or  5  hours  or  over  night.  This  improves  keeping  qualities 
and  flavor.  ^  Soak  again  if  there  is  time.  Now  melt  the 
fat  slowly  in  the  oven  or  over  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  the  scraps  are  crisp  but  not  brown.  Strain  into  clean 
pails,  cans  or  jars  which  can  be  covered.  Keep  in  a  cool 
place.  Use  like  lard,  Crisco,  etc.,  which  costs  about  5  cents 
a  pound  more.  When  using  in  recipes  calling  for  butter, 
add  more  salt  and  take  a  little  less  because  butter  contains 
salt  and  is  one-eighth  water. 

Strongly  flavored  fats  from  bacon,  ham  and  sausage 
should  be  kept  separate  and  used  for  hashes  or  warming 
over  potatoes. 

^^"^^i  All  measurements  are  level— Ml  spoons  and  cups  and  level  with 
a  case  knife.     Cup  means  measurinq  cup;  cost  ."   cents. 

A  cup  contains   16   tablespoons  ;   a  tablespoon  contains  3  teaspoons. 

Copyright  1914,  by  American  School  of  Home  Economics. 

3 


Caramel  Syrup 

2  cups  sugar  >3  cup  water 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  stewing  pan,  boil  the  syrup,  stir- 
ring occasionally  until  it  turns  a  light  brown.  Add  i  cup 
])oiling  water,  and  boil  until  of  thickness  desired. 

Fried  Bacon  Strips 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bacon  from  the  strip.  Remove  skin  and 
rind,  lay  the  slices  in  a  cold  frying  pan,  cook  until  crisp  and 
brown,  turning  as  necessary. 

Bacon  strips  are  the  odd-shaped  pieces  of  bacon  cut  from  the  side 
in  the  process  of  trimming.  It  sells  for  14  to  22  cents  per  pound  in 
pieces  weighing  4  to  8  pounds. 

Coffee 

14  cup  ground  coffee  2  cups  (i  pint)  boiling  water 

Moisten  coffee  with  cold  water ;  add  to  boiling  water  and 
boil  from  one  to  three  minutes.  Keep  hot  without  boiling 
for  ten  minutes  longer.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water 
to  settle  the  grounds  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

If  a  crushed  egg-shell  is  added  to  the  ground  cofifee  with 
the  cold  water  when  making  it  will  settle  more  easily  and 
surely.  Do  not  allow  the  coffee  to  stand  on  the  grounds  ; 
if  not  served  at  once,  pour  off  and  keep  hot.  See  that  the 
coffee  pot  is  well  washed  and  aired.  Ground  coffee  loses 
flavor  and  strength,  and  if  possible  it  is  best  to  grind  the 
coffee  in  a  small  hand  mill  just  before  making. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Put  water  to  boil  for  coffee ;  set  table  except  for  the 
plates,  which  should  be  heated  in  some  convenient  way.  Cut 
and  prepare  bacon.  Make  coft'ee  if  water  has  boiled.  Meas- 
ure out  ingredients  for  griddle  cakes,  mix  thein  and  start 
cooking,  placing  the  cakes  as  they  are  done  on  a  plate  over 
a  pan  of  boiling  water.  When  the  cakes  are  half  done 
fry  the  bacon  attending  to  both  at  the  same  time.  The  hot 
drippings  from  the  bacon  may  be  used  with  the  cakes. 

Wash  the  top  of  the  milk  bottle,  remove  stopper  and 
pour  off  the  top  of  the  milk  for  coffee;  put  the  rest  in 
glasses  for  the  children.  Serve  the  cakes  on  the  hot  plates, 
settle  and  pour  the  coffee. 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Monday 

RICE    WITH    TOMATOES   AND    CHEESE 

BREAD   AND  OLEO 

TEA  FOR  ADULTS — MILK  FOR  CHILDREN 

Rice  with  Tomatoes  and  Cheese 

I  cup   rice  2-inch   cube   of    cheese 

Yz    can   tomatoes  2  teaspoons    salt 

34  teaspoon  pepper 

Wash  the  rice,  sift  it  slowly  into  about  5  cups  of  boiling, 
salted  water.  Boil  20  to  30  minutes,  stirring  occasionally 
with  a  fork.  When  done  evaporate  the  water  by  leaving  it 
partly  covered  on  a  low  fire.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  pepper 
and  boil.  Pour  into  vegetable  dish,  and  grate  the  cheese 
over  the  top. 

Tea 
\y>   teaspoonful  tea  2  cups  boiling  water 

Put  the  tea  into  a  hot  teapot,  and  pour  the  water  freshly 
boiled  over  it.  Steep  i  to  3  minutes,  never  longer.  Do  not 
make  the  tea  until  ready  to  serve  it.  for  tea  becomes  bitter 
and  harmful  if  allowed  to  stand  on  the  leaves. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Start  the  rice  a  half  hour  before  meal  time.  While  it  is 
cooking,  set  the  table  and  put  on  the  water  for  the  tea. 
Finish  the  rice  and  make  the  tea. 

DINNER 
Monday 

MEAT  SOUP   WITH   CEREAL  AND  VEGETABLES 

TOASTED    BREAD 

DRIED    APPLE    COBBLER 

COFFEE  FOR  ADULTS — MILK  FOR   CHILDREN 

Meat  Soup  v^^ith  Cereal  and  Vegetables 

2J/2    pounds    soup    beef  2  tablespoons  celery  leaves  or 

1  cup  barley,   rice  or  parsley 

macaroni  2  cups    turnips    or    cabbage 

2  tablespoons    onion  2  cups    carrot    or    celery    root 

Salt   and   pepper   to    taste 
Choose  shank,  shoulder  bone  or  neck  bones,  or  any  cheap 
cuts  of  beef,  part  lean  and  part  bone.     A  piece  which  is  Yz 
lean  meat,  the  rest  bone  with  a  little  fat,  is  best  for  soups. 

5 


Wipe  the  meat  clean  with  a  cloth,  wet  with  cold  water, 
remove  the  fat  if  there  is  too  much.  Try  it  out  in 
the  oven  and  use  as  drippings.  Do  not  allow  the  souj) 
to  be  so  greasy  as  to  spoil  the  digestion  of  a  child.  Cover 
the  meat  (cut  in  rather  small  pieces)  with  cold  water  and 
allow  it  to  cook  slowly,  but  not  boil,  for  from  6  to  lo 
hours.  Add  barley  2  hours  before  meal  time.  Wash  and 
pare  the  vegetables,  cut  them  in  }^  inch  cubes,  and  add  i 
hour  before  meal  time.  Mince  onion  and  celery  leaves  fine 
and  add  with  the  vegetables. 

Dried  Apple  Cobbler 

lYz   cups   dried   apples  i  teaspoon    cinnamon    or    nutmeg 

1/2  cup  sugar 

Wash  dried  apples  very  carefully,  soak  6  hours,  or  over 
night,  cook  slowly  in  same  water  until  tender.  Add  sugar 
and  place  in  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  more  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon or  nut  meg  over  top.  Cover  with  the  crust  made  as 
below,  bake  until  brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serve 
hot. 

Crust  for  Cobbler 

1  cup  flour  iM   tablespoons  fat 
Vi  cup  milk  or  water                    H    teaspoon    salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  flour  with  salt  and  baking  powder,  rub  the 
fat  into  the  flour  with  the  finger  tips,  add  milk  and  mix 
with  a  knife.     Turn  the  dough  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll 
or  pat  to  the  thickness  of  34  inch. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Wash  apples  and  put  to  soak  the  night  before.  Start  the 
meat  to  cook  for  soup  immediately  after  breakfast,  and 
let  it  simmer  on  back  of  range  all  day.  An  hour  and 
a  half  before  dinner  time  add  barley  to  the  soup,  and 
put  the  dried  apples  on  to  cook.  Prepare  the  vege- 
tables and  add  them  to  the  soup ;  y2  hour  before  meal 
time  make  pie  crust  and  put  pie  in  oven.  Put  bread  m 
oven  to  toast ;  make  cofifee  and  set  table. 

-,       ,  BREAKFAST 

Tuesday 

OAT    MEAL    MUSH    WITH   DATES   SERVED   WITH    TOP    MILK 

TOAST 
COCOA   FOR   CHILDREN — COFFEE   FOR   ADULTS 

6 


Oat  Meal  Mush  with  Dates 

i^  cups  oatmeal  4  cups  boiling  water 

I    teaspoon    salt 

Sift  oat  meal  slowly  into  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly, 
boil  three  minutes,  then  cover  closely  and  set  pan  in  a  larger 
vessel  containing  boiling  water.  Continue  cooking  i  or  2 
hours  longer.  If  placed  the  evening  before  in  a  fireless 
cooker  it  will  be  done  in  the  morning,  or  it  may  cook  over 
night  on  the  back  of  a  coal  range  where  it  can  remain  hot. 
I'ifteen  minutes  before  serving  add  the  dates,  washed, 
stoned  and  cut  in  halves. 

Toast 

Slice  stale  bread  }^  to  ^  inch  thick,  lay  in  oven  until 
brown,  or  brown  over  coals. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Start  oat  meal  cooking  the  night  before.  In  the  morning 
put  it  on  to  reheat,  add  dates,  and  make  the  cofifee.  Make 
toast ;  set  table.  Pour  off  top  part  of  the  milk  for  cereal 
and  coffee. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Tuesday 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

BREAD  WITH  OLEO 

TOAST  TEA  FOR  CHILDREN 

TEA  FOR  ADULTS 

Creamed  Carrots 

Two  pints  of  carrots.  3  cups  of  white  sauce.  Wash  and 
pare  carrots,  cut  into  pieces  ^  inch  thick,  ^4  i^^ch  square. 
Cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  cook 
until  tender.  Remove  cover  from  pan,  evaporate  the  water, 
and  add  the  white  sauce,  made  separately:  or.  more  simply, 
rub  together  4  tablespoons  of  flour  and  3  of  drippings  with 
V2  cup  of  water  and  2^A  cups  of  milk  ;  add  to  cooked  carrots 
and  boil. 

White  Sauce 

3  cups  milk  or  milk  and         3  tablespoons  dripping  or  oleo 
water,  mixed  iH   teaspoon   salt 

4  tablespoons  flour 

Stir  the  flour  in  hot  drippings  or  oleo,  add  milk  gradually, 
boil,  stirring  constantly  imtil  smooth  and  thick. 

7 


Toast  Tea 

I  cup  toast  crumbs  4  cups  boiling  water 

Roll  toast  left  from  breakfast  with  a  rolling  pin,  add 

boiling  water  to   the  crumbs,   stir  until   partly   dissolved. 

Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  milk. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Wash  and  pare  carrots  and  put  them  on  to  cook  ^  hour 

before  meal  time ;   prepare  toast  crumbs ;    set  table ;    add 

dressing  to  carrots ;   make  toast  tea  and  tea. 

DINNER 
Tuesday 

NAVY   BEANS   WITH    SHANK   OF   SALT    PORK 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

CORN    BREAD       STEWED  APRICOTS   AND   PEACHES 

COFFEE       MILK 

Beans  Boiled  with  Meat 

3  cups  navy  beans  2  pounds    shank    salt    pork 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  beans ;  wash  meat  carefully  and 
remove  skin  and  part  of  fat.  (This  fat  can  be  fried  out 
by  cutting  up  and  heating  in  a  dish  in  the  oven  and  used  for 
drippings.)  Add  meat  to  the  beans,  cover  well  with  boiling 
water,  cook  slowly  4  or  5  hours,  adding  more  water  if  nec- 
essary until  both  meat  and  beans  are  tender.  This  may  be 
done  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

There  will  be  enough  beans  left  from  this  amount  for 
lunch  on  the  following  day. 

Southern  Corn  Bread 

3  cups  corn  meal  (prefer-  i  teaspoon   salt 

ably  white)  i  egg 

i^  cup  thick  sour  milk  3  teaspoons  melted  drippings 
^  teaspoon  cooking  soda 

Beat  tgg  in  mixing  bowl,  add  milk,  sift  in  meal  with  soda 
and  salt,  and  add  melted  fat.  Beat  quickly  until  well 
mixed,  pour  into  hot,  well-greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  hot.  Egg  may 
be  omitted. 

If  sweetened  corn  bread  is  preferred,  use  yellow  corn 
meal  and  add  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

Flour  may  be  used  in  place  of  one  of  the  cups  of  corn 
meal. 

8 


Dried  Apricots  and  Peaches 

Yi.  pound  apricots  J4  pound  peaches 

Wash  the  fruit,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  cook  slowly 
in  same  water  until  tender.  Add  sugar  to  taste,  about  y^ 
cup. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Start  beans  and  meat  cooking  while  lunch  is  being  pre- 
pared. Let  dried  fruit  be  cooking  at  the  same  time,  and 
set  aside  to  cool  when  done.  Half  an  hour  before  meal  time 
make  corn  bread  and  put  in  to  bake.  Twenty  minutes  be- 
fore meal  time  make  the  coffee  and  set  the  table  and  serve 
the  dinner. 

BREAKFAST 

Wednesday 

GRAHAM    MUSH    WITH    TOP    MILK 

FRIED   BACON    STRIP       TOAST 

COFFEE   FOR  ADULTS MILK   FOR   CHILDREN 

Graham  Mush 

\y2   cups   graham   flour  4  cups    boiling   water 

I  cup  cold  water  2  teaspoons  salt 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  cold  water  to  prevent  it  from 
lumping  when  added  to  the  boiling  water.  Pour  this  mix- 
ture into  the  boiling  salted  water,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Boil  5  minutes,  set  in  a  larger  pan  of  boiling  water  and 
continue  cooking  ^  to  i  hour ;  or  leave  closely  covered  over 
night  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

The  graham  mush  should  be  started  the  night  before. 
About  Yo  hour  before  breakfast  time  put  it  on  to  reheat. 
Make  coffee,  set  the  table,  fry  bacon  and  make  the  toast. 


Wednesday 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 


BEAN    POLENTA 

BREAD  WITH  GLEG 

HOT  STEWED  DRIED  APPLES 

TEA  FOR  ADULTS — CINNAMON   TEA  FOR  CHILDREN 

9 


Bean  Polenta 

4  cups  white  beans   (cooked)         J4   teaspoon  mustard 
iH    tablespoons  molasses  y^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  teaspoons  vinegar 

Drain  the  water  from  cold  boiled  beans,  mash  them  fine, 
and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  Form  the  mixture  into 
cakes  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  greased  pan. 

Cinnamon  Tea 

2  cups   scalded  milk  3  teaspoons  sugar 

2  cups  boiling  water  }i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  scalded  milk  and  sugar  just 
before  serving.     Sprinkle  the  cinnamon  over  the  top. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Wash  the  dried  apples  and  put  them  to  soak  the  night 
before.  About  an  hour  before  meal  time  put  them  on  to 
cook  in  the  same  water.  One-half  hour  before  meal  time 
make  the  polenta,  using  the  beans  left  from  dinner  the  day 
before,  and  put  the  cakes  on  to  brown.  While  they  are 
browning  put  the  milk  on  to  heat  for  the  cinnamon  tea  and 
set  the  table.  When  the  polenta  is  done  make  the  tea  and 
the  cinnamon  tea. 

DINNER 
Wednesday 

STEW  WITH  VEGETABLES 

BREAD 

SUET  PUDDING 

Stew  with  Vegetables 

1 3^2    to   2   pounds  stew    meat  i   onion 

2  carrots  2  sprigs  parsley 

2  turnips  i  tablespoon  salt 

4  to  6  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Neck  or  breast  of  lamb  or  veal  or  inexpensive  cuts  of 
beef  may  be  used.  Have  the  butcher  cut  the  pieces  of  meat 
rather  small.  Put  them  into  the  kettle  in  which  the  stew  is 
to  be  cooked  and  place  over  a  hot  fire,  stirring  occasionally 
until  the  outside  is  well  browned.  Cover  with  hot  water 
and  cook  slowly,  without  boiling,  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Add  the  vegetables  pared  and  cut  into  pieces,  during  the 
last  hour  of  cooking.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  just  before 
serving. 

10 


Suet  Pudding 

1  cup  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  bread   crumbs  >:;  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  linely  chopped  suet  Grating  of  nutmeg 

I  cup  sugar  i  cup  milk  or  water 

]\Iix  the  suet  well  with  the  flour,  add  other  ingredients, 
and  make  into  a  smooth  batter.  The  pudding-  may  be  either 
steamed  or  boiled,  or  baked.  For  steaming  put  into  a  but- 
tered pan,  or  baking  dish,  cover  with  paper  or  a  tin  lid. 
and  set  in  a  larger  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Cook  about  an 
hour. 

For  boiling,  tie  the  dough  up  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil 
from  2^  to  3  hours.  It  may  be  baked  in  the  same  way  as 
cake. 

Serve  with  any  of  the  pudding  sauces,  or  as  a  cake  with- 
out sauce. 

One  or  more  eggs  may  be  added  to  enrich  the  pudding,  or 
a  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  figs,  dates,  or  nuts  may  be  added 
to  ^ive  variety. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

About  3  hours  before  meal  time  put  the  meat  for  the 
stew  on  to  cook ;  add  the  vegetables  to  the  stew,  make 
the  suet  pudding ;  while  it  is  cooking,  make  the  coffee  and 
set  the  table.  Serve  the  stew  on  a  large  platter  with  the 
meat  piled  in  the  center  and  the  pieces  of  vegetables  ar- 
ranged around  it.  Serve  the  pudding,  like  cake,  cut  in 
squares  without  sauce. 

Extra  Baking 

Just  before  starting  lunch  mix  the  bread  and  set  it  to 
rise.  It  will  be  ready  for  the  second  kneading  after  lunch 
is  over.      Make  rolls  from  part  of  the  bread  dough. 

White  Yeast  Bread 

3  quarts  flour  2  tablespoons  salt 

1  quart  hot  water  2  yeast  cakes  stirred  into   1/2   cup 

2  tablespoons  sugar  of  lukewarm  water 
2  tablespoons  lard  or  other  fat 

Put  lard,  sugar  and  salt  in  large  pan  or  bowl  and  add 
the  hot  water.  When  lukewarm  add  the  dissolved  yeast  and 
about  5  pints  of  flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  add  the  remaining 
flour  and  mix  well.  Turn  the  dough  on  to  a  board  and 
knead  until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic.     Place  in  a  well-greased 

II 


pan,  greasing  the  top  of  the  dough  and  cover  with  clean 
cloth.  Place  where  it  will  keep  at  a  warm,  even  tempera- 
ture. When  the  dough  has  raised  to  double  its  size,  which 
will  be  in  about  i><  hours,  knead  it  again,  form  into  loaves, 
grease  the  outside  of  the  loaves  and  place  them  in  a  baking 
pan.  Let  the  dough  rise  until  it  is  again  double  its  size! 
which  it  should  do  in  about  one  hour,  and  bake  for  one 
hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

The  temperature  at  which  bread  dough  is  kept  is  one  of 
the  most  important  things  about  bread  making.  Yeast  is  a 
plant,  and  too  much  heat  will  kill  it,  while  a  low  tempera- 
ture will  keep  it  from  growing  and  forming  the  gas  bubbles 
which  make  the  bread  light.  Bread  must  be  baked  thor- 
oughly in  order  to  be  wholesome.  For  this  reason  it  is  best 
not  to  make  the  loaves  much,  if  any,  larger  than  the  common 
bakers'  loaf,  which  weighs  12  ounces.  This  recipe  will  make 
eight  such  loaves. 

When  the  loaves  are  done  place  them  sidewise  on  a  rack 
or  table,  so  that  the  air  will  circulate  freely  around  them. 
If  a  soft  crust  is  desired,  cover  the  bread  while  cooling. 
When  perfectly  cold,  place  in  a  jar  or  tin  box. 

Rye  Bread 

3  cups  white  flour  2  cups  hot  water 

3  cups  rye  flour  2  tablespoons  lard  or  other  fat 

1/3  cup  sugar  or  molasses         i  tablespoon  salt 

I  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  H  cup  lukewarm  water 

Follow  the  directions  for  mixing,  kneading  and  baking 
given  for  white  bread,  if  caraway  seeds  are  desired  add  one 
teaspoonful  while  kneading  the  second  time. 

Cinnamon   Rolls 

Roll  bread  dough  to  yi  inch  thick,  at  second  kneading 
spread  with  fat  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  roll 
into  a  long  roll,  cut  into  y.  inch  slices,  grease  these  on  the 
outside,  place  in  baking  pan,  when  they  have  risen  to  twice 
their  size,  bake. 

Prune  Rolls 

At  the  second  kneading  roll  a  layer  of  bread  dough  to 
the  thickness  of  ^  inch  and  spread  with  a  %  inch  layer  of 
the  mashed  pulp  of  stewed  prunes,  cut  into  strips  about  3 

12 


inches  wide  and  6  inches  long.  Fold  the  dough  so  that  there 
will  be  a  layer  of  prunes  between  two  layers  of  dough,  grease 
the  outside,  place  in  a  greased  pan,  allow  them  to  rise  to 
twice  their  size,  bake. 

Coffee  Cake 

I  cup  hot  milk  Yz  cup  sugar 

yz  cup  lard  i   teaspoon  salt 

1/2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

Add  hot  milk  with  lard  and  salt,  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  the  stiff  batter — about 
three  cups,  cover  dish  and  let  the  batter  rise,  then  spread  in 
a  well  greased  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  allow  to  rise, 
bake.  If  raisins  are  desired  add  ^  cup  just  before  putting 
into  baking  pan. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

RYE    MUFFINS 

FRIED   SALT   PORK    WITH    MILK   GRAVY 

COFFEE   FOR   ADULTS — MILK   FOR   CHILDREN 

Rye   Muffins 

13^  cups  rye  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

iH  cups  white   flour  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

lYi   teaspoons   salt  2  tablespoons  drippings 

iH   cup  milk  or  water 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  liquid  and  melted  drip- 
pings and  beat.      Put  quickly  into  heated,  greased  muffin 
pan  and  bake  about  25  ininutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Fried  Salt  Pork  with  Milk  Gravy 

Cut  the  pork  in  very  thin  slices  and  fry  in  a  hot  pan  until 
crisp  and  brown.  Take  out  pork,  pour  off  all  but  3  table- 
spoons of  the  drippings,  and  into  this  rub  2  tablespoons 
flour.  Add  i  cup  of  water  slowly,  boil  well,  add  a  cup 
of  milk.  Cut  the  fried  pork  in  3^  inch  pieces  and  mix  with 
the  gravy. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Put  water  on  to  boil  for  coffee  ;  make  the  muffins.  While 
they  are  baking  make  the  coft'ee,  set  the  table,  fr>'  the  pork 
and  make  the  gravy. 

13 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Thursday 

PUREE    (thick  soup)    OF  LIMA   BEANS 

TOASTED   MUFFINS 

BAKED  BANANA 

TEA  FOR  ADULTS— MILK  FOR  CHILDREN 

Puree  of  Lima  Beans 

4  cups  cooked  lima  beans         2  slices  fat  pork 
2  cups  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

Salt   and  pepper  to  taste 

For  additional  flavoring,  if  desired,  use  i  tablespoon  each 
of  onion,  parsley  or  celery,  chopped  fine.  Fry  pork  until 
crisp  and  brown,  break  or  cut  it  into  small  bits,  stir  the  flour 
into  the  drippings  and  pork,  and  if  onion  or  celery  is  used 
add  this  at  the  same  time  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Add 
water  and  boil,  mash  the  beans  fine,  and  add  them.  If  the 
whole  IS  too  thick,  add  more  water.  The  soup  may  be  made 
more  nutritious  by  using  milk  instead  of  water. 

Baked  Banana 

Baked  banana  is  more  easily  digested  than  raw.      Peal 
the  bananas,  cut  lengthwise  into  halves,  place  in  baking  pan, 
sprinkle  vv-ith  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  for  about  15  minutes.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

\\'''ash  and  soak  beans  over  night,  put  on  to  cook  at 
breakfast  time  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Twenty  min- 
utes before  meal  time,  put  muffins  left  over  from  breakfast, 
and  any  other  scraps  of  bread,  in  the  oven  to  toast.  Pre- 
pare bananas  and  put  in  to  bake.  Make  the  soup,  set  the 
table,  and  make  the  tea. 

DINNER 
Thursday 

FLANK  STEAK  BRAISED  WITH  VEGETABLES 

BROWNED    PARSNIPS 

STEWED   FIGS 

COFFEE   FOR  ADULTS— MILK   FOR   CHILDREN 

Flank  Steak  Braised  virith  Vegetables 
Have  the  butcher  score  the  steak  when  it  is  bought,  or, 
better  still,  beat  it  well  with  a  hammer.      Dredge  well  with 

14 


flour  and  lay  in  baking  pan.  Over  it  place  a  thick  layer  of 
thinly  sliced  raw  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced 
onion.  Pour  over  this  2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes,  cover 
closely  and  cook  slowly  in  oven  2^  to  3  hours.  One-half 
hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  remove  the  cover.  Add 
w^ater  as  necessary,  and  leave  it  to  cook  uncovered.  In 
serving,  place  it  whole  on  a  platter  and  cut  down  as  through 
a  loaf. 

Browned  Parsnips 

Pare  parsnips,  cut  in  halves,  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  until  tender.  Cut  lengthwise  into  slices  y'z  inch  thick, 
brown  in  a  hot,  greased  pan,  or  in  the  oven  with  baking 
meat.  They  may  be  served  plain  boiled  and  if  any  are 
left  over  they  may  be  browned  at  the  next  serving. 

Stewed  Figs 

Use  dried  figs  that  are  not  pressed.  They  are  usually  sold 
for  cooking  at  10  to  12  cents  per  pound.  Wash  carefully 
and  soak  over  night,  or  for  several  hours.  Cook  slov.dy  in 
the  same  water  until  tender.     Add  sugar  if  desired. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

After  breakfast  wash  3^  pound  cooking  figs  and  put  to 
soak.  Three  hours  before  meal  time  prepare  the  steak  and 
put  it  in  to  bake ;  ly^  hours  before  prepare  the  parsnips  and 
start  them  to  boil,  and  put  figs  on  to  cook ;  ^  hour  before 
lay  the  parsnips  cut  in  slices  in  the  pan  to  brown.  Make 
the  coft'ee.  set  the  table. 

The  parsnips  might  be  omitted  from  this  dinner. 

BREAKFAST 

Friday 

FRIED  HOMINV  MUSH  WITH  BROWN  SUGAR  SYRUP 

TOAST 

COFFEE    FOR   ADULTS — MILK    FOR   CHILDREN 

Fried  Hominy  Mush 

Pour  one  part  hominy  slowly  into  four  parts  boiling, 
salted  water,  stir  till  it  thickens  and  then  cook  slowly  in  a 
double  boiler  for  3  hours  or  more,  or  over  night  in  a  fire- 
less  cooker. 

Pour  boiled  hominy  into  a  deep,  greased  pan  until  it  is 

15 


3  inches  or  more  in  depth.  The  next  day  turn  the  mixture 
out  of  the  pan,  slice  in  ^^  inch  sHces  and  brown  both  sides 
in  hot,  greased  pan. 

Brown   Sugar  Syrup 

Melt  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  with  i  cup  hot  water ;  boil 
5  minutes  and  cool. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Start  2  cups  of  hominy  to  cook  as  a  mush  the  day  before 
while  lunch  is  being  prepared.  Let  it  cook  all  afternoon 
and  pour  the  part  for  breakfast  into  the  pan  and  leave  over- 
night in  a  cold  place.  Set  the  rest  aside  to  bake  with 
cheese  on  Saturday.  The  next  morning  make  the  coffee, 
start  to  fry  the  mush,  and  while  it  is  cooking  make  the 
syrup  and  set  the  table. 


Friday 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 

RICE    SOUP    WITH    CROUTONS 
RICE  AND  CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 


Rice  Soup 

3  cups  rice  water  i  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

2  cups  carrots  i  tablespoon  chopped  celery 

2  tablespoons  drippings.  1  tablespoon  flour 

Cook  the  carrots,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  until  ten- 
der. Heat  the  drippings,  add  the  onions  and  celery  to  it 
and  cook  them  5  minutes  without  browning.  Stir  in  the 
flour,  add  this  mixture  to  the  carrots,  add  the  rice  water  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Croutons 

Cut  stale  bread  into  small  cubes  or  in  strips  2  inches  wide, 
^  inches  thick,  or  in  any  fancy  shapes  desired.  Dry  in  a 
slow  oven  until  crisp  and  light  brown  all  the  way  through. 

Rice  and  Corn  Meal  Muffins 

I  cup  cooked  rice  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

I  cup  flour  iJ4  cups  liquid 

I  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  melted  drippings 

I  cup  corn  meal 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  rice  to  liquid 
ingredients  and  combine  the  two  mixtures.      Beat  and  put 

16 


quickly  into  hot,  greased  niuftin  pans.     Bake  about  20  min- 
utes in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

A  half  hour  before  meal  time  put  2  cups  of  rice  on  to 
boil.  Use  the  rice  for  the  scalloped  fish  for  dinner  and 
for  the  muffins,  and  the  rice  water  for  the  soup.  Prepare 
the  carrots  and  put  them  on  to  cook.  Cut  the  croutons  into 
')4  inch  cubes  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Make  the 
muffins  and  while  they  are  baking,  set  the  table.  Finish 
the  soup  and  serve  with  the  croutons  sprinkled  over  the 
top  of  each  bowl. 

DINNER 
Friday 

SCALLOPED  SALT  FISH 

BOILED    BEETS 

HOT    GINGERBREAD 

COFFEE    FOR   ADULTS MILK    FOR   CHILDREN 

Scalloped  Salt  Fish 

iK  cups   salt  fish  2    cups    thin    white    sauce 

3  cups  boiled  rice 

Shred  the  salt  fish  and  soak  in  hike  w^rm  water  for  about 
an  hour,  or  until  the  pieces  are  softened.  Fill  a  baking 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  the  fish  and  boiled  rice  which 
has  been  mixed  with  the  white  sauce.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  until  hot  through  and  crumbs  are  browned. 

Gingerbread 

2  cups  flour  14  cup  molasses 

y2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  ginger  3  tablespoons  melted  drip- 

2  teaspoons  baking  pow^der  pings 

y'z  teaspoon  soda  J^S  teaspoon  salt 

Add  the  drippings  and  the  hot  water  to  the  molasses. 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  all  together.  Add  the  liquid 
and  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Pour  into  a  shallow, 
well  greased  pan,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Boiled  Beets 

Wash  the  beets  without  breaking  the  skin  and  boil  for 
3  hours  or  until  tender.  Drop  in  cold  water  and  rub  ofif 
the  skins,  slice,  season  with  salt  and  oleo  and  serve  hot. 

17 


Or  the  sliced  beets  may  be  soaked  for  an  hour  or  two 
in  weak  vinegar  and  used  as  Pickled  Beets. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Start  the  beets  to  cooking  at  breakfast  time  if  wanted 
pickled,  otherwise  later.  At  ^  hour  before  meal  time  make 
the  gingerbread,  prepare  the  scalloped  fish  and  put  in  oven. 
While  these  are  baking  make  the  cofifee,  skin  and  slice 
the  beets  and  set  the  table. 

BREAKFAST 

Saturday 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH   WITH  TOP  MILK 

TOAST  V^ITH   DATE  AND   PRUNE   JAM 

COFFEE   FOR  ADULTS — MILK   FOR  CHILDREN 

Corn  Meal  Mush 

114  cups  corn  meal  6  cups  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Sift  the  com  meal  slowly  into  the  boiling,  salted  water, 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  it  from  lumping.  After  boil- 
ing 10  minutes,  place  the  kettle  in  a  larger  pan  of  boiling 
water  or  in  a  fireless  cooker  to  cook  over  night. 

Date  and  Prune  Jam 

I  pound  prunes  i  pound  dates 

Cook  prunes,  remove  stones  and  add  dates,  cleaned  and 
stoned.    Cook  mixture  until  thick.    In  the  same  Vv-a\'  prunes 
may  be  combined  with  figs,  and  figs  with  dates ;   add  little 
lemon  juice  to  add  to  the  flavor. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  the  jam  the  day  before,  while  preparing  lunch. 
Start  the  corn  meal  to  cooking  the  night  before.  In  the 
morning  set  on  stove  to  reheat  }2  hour  before  breakfast 
time.  Start  the  coffee,  make  the  toast,  set  the  table.  Serve 
the  mush  in  cereal  bowls  with  sugar  and  the  top  half  of 
the  bottle  of  milk. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Saturday 

HOMINY  BAKED  WITH  CHEESE 

STEWED    RAISINS 

BREAD    WITH    OLEO 

TEA  TOAST  TEA   FOR  CHILDREN 

i8 


Hominy  Baked  with  Cheese 

Put  alternate  layers  of  boiled  hominy  and  grated  cheese 
in  baking  dish.  Add  enough  milk,  thin  white  sauce  or 
water  to  moisten.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until 
hot  through  and  crumbs  are  browned. 

Stewed  Raisins 

Wash  black,  seedless  raisins  and  soak  over  night.     Cook 
slowly  in  the  same  water  until  tender.     Add  sugar  if  de- 
sired. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Put  raisins  to  soak  the  night  before  and  cook  during 
breakfast.  One-half  hour  before  lunch  time  prepare  the 
hominy  using  that  left  from  breakfast  the  day  before  and 
put  in  the  oven  to  bake.  \\'hile  it  is  baking,  set  the  table 
and  make  the  tea. 

DINNER 
Saturday 

CORN  BEEF  WITH  VEGETABLES 

BAKED  POTATOES 

APPLE  SAUCE 

COFFEE   FOR  ADULTS — MILK   FOR  CHILDREN 

Corn  Beef  with  Vegetables 

2  lbs.  brisket  of  corn  beef       H  lb.  turnips 
Yz  lb.  cabbage  i  lb.  carrots 

Yz  lb.  rutabaga  i  onion 

Wipe  the  meat,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point.  After  boiling  5  minutes  remove  the 
scum  and  continue  cooking  just  below  the  boiling  point  for 
about  3  hours.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  remove  it  and 
cook  the  vegetables  in  the  water.  Cut  these  in  uniform  size 
and  cook  them  until  tender.  If  small,  the  carrots  may  be 
cut  in  halves,  if  large  in  quarters,  and  other  vegetables  in 
similar  size.  Cabbage  should  be  added  about  10  minutes 
later  than  the  others.  Serve  the  meat  on  a  large  platter 
surrounded  by  the  vegetables.  Almost  any  other  vegetables, 
beets,  peas,  etc.,  may  be  used  instead  of  part  of  those  named. 

Apple  Sauce 

Wash  6  sour  apples  and  cut  into  eighths  with  skins  on. 
Remove  core,  and  decayed  spots.     Cover  with  hot  water  and 

19 


cook  slowly  until  tender.     Remove  from  fire  and  add  about 
y2  cup  sugar,  or  to  taste.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  but  not 
luke  warm. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Four  or  five  hours  before  meal  time  put  the  meat  on  to 
cook;  I  hour  before  wash  6  medium  sized  potatoes  and  lay 
them  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Wash  and  pare  the  vegetables, 
remove  the  meat  from  the  kettle,  laying  it  in  the  warming 
oven  to  keep  warm.  While  the  vegetables  are  cooking  make 
the  apple  sauce  and  the  coffee  and  set  the  table. 

If  more  convenient  the  potatoes  may  be  peeled  and  quar- 
tered and  cooked  with  the  other  vegetables. 

Extra  Baking 

Make  bread  in  the  morning  so  that  it  will  be  ready  to  bake 
late  in  the  afternoon  when  the  corned  beef  is  cooking.  After 
the  dishes  from  the  noon  meal  are  washed,  make  and  bake 
the  oatmeal  cookies  for  Sunday. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

2  cups  rolled  oats  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  oleo 

I  cup  sugar  i  pinch  of  salt    • 

I  t%%  3    tablespoons    milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  t.gg  beaten,  and  milk,  drop  by 
teaspoonsful    into   greased   pan,    bake    in    moderate    oven, 

BREAKFAST 
Sunday 

GRAHAM   BISCUITS  WITH   D.\TE  AND  PRUNE  JAM 

SCRAMBLED   EGG 

COFFEE  FOR  ADULTS — COCOA   FOR   CHILDREN 

Graham  Biscuits 

V/z  cups  graham  flour  i  cup  liquid 

lJ/2  cups  white  flour  3  tablespoons  lard  or  crisco 

lYz  teaspoons  salt  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Mix  the  lard  evenly 
through  by  cutting  with  two  knives,  or  by  rubbing  lightly 
with  the  fingers.  Add  the  liquid  mixing  with  a  knife. 
Turn  the  mixture  on  floured  bread  board.  Roll  or  pat  to  Yi 
inch  thickness.  Cut  out  biscuits  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

20 


Scrambled  Egg 

Beat  4  eggs  light,  add  i  tablespoon  flour,  J^  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  i  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  and  beat  again. 
Add  Yz  cup  milk  or  milk  and  water  mixed  and  pour  into 
warm,  greased  frying  pan.  Stir  the  mixture  constantly 
over  a  very  low  fire  until  the  eggs  are  cooked  but  not  tough. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  the  biscuits  and  leave  them  standing  in  the  baking 
pan  until  about  20  minutes  before  time  for  breakfast.  This 
may  be  done  the  night  before  in  cold  weather  if  each  bis- 
cuit is  brushed  over  with  melted  fat  to  prevent  a  crust 
from  forming  and  the  pan  is  closely  covered  to  keep  out 
dust  and  germs.  Make  the  coffee,  put  the  biscuits  in  oven 
and  scramble  the  eggs.  In  serving  the  biscuits,  take  out 
only  enough  for  once  around,  leaving  the  others  in  oven 
to  keep  hot. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 

Sunday 

SCALLOPED   TOMATOES 

OATMEAL    COOKIES  BLACK    OLIVES 

COCOA 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Place  alternate  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  canned  or  ripe 
tomatoes  and  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  in  baking  dish 
with  crumbs  on  top.  If  desired  add  an  onion  finely  chopped 
to  the  tomatoes.     Brown  in  oven. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

One-half  hour  before  meal  time,  prepare  the  tomatoes 
and  put  them  in  the  oven.  While  they  are  heating  make 
the  cocoa  and  set  the  table.  Serve  the  cookies  made  on 
Saturday. 

DINNER 

Sunday 

MEAT  LOAF  WITH   BROWNED  POTATOES 

CREAMED  RUTABAGA  CABBAGE   SALAD 

BAKED  APPLES   WITH   RAISINS 

COFFEE — MILK 

21 


Meat  Loaf 

1  pound  chopped  meat  i  cup  thick  white  sauce 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  Flavor   with   salt   and   pepper 

as  desired 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  together,  form  into  loaf  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  One  tablespoon 
minced  onion  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Thick  White  Sauce 

Add  liquid  slowly  to  flour,  stirring  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Pour  into  drippings  and  boil,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick  and  smooth. 

Creamed  Rutabaga 

Wash  and  pare  the  rutabaga  and  cut  in  pieces  about  34 
inch  square  and  }4  inch  long.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water 
until  tender.  Evaporate  the  water  by  leaving  kettle  uncov- 
ered on  fire.  Add  3  cups  of  thin  white  sauce  made  sepa- 
rately, or  stir  3  tablespoons  of  flour  into  3/<  cup  water  and 
add  this  w^ith  2^  cups  of  milk  and  water  to  the  vegetables 
and  boil.     Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cabbage  Salad 

Shave  the  cabbage  fine  and  add  salt  and  pepper.  Cut 
two  thin  slices  of  bacon  into  small  pieces  and  fry  till  brown. 
While  very  hot  pour  over  the  cabbage.  Add  a  little  vin- 
egar. 

Baked  Apple  with  Raisins 

Remove  the  core  from  6  medium  sized  apples.  Put 
them  in  baking  dish,  fill  the  cavity  with  sugar  and  seedless 
raisins,  add  ^  cup  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  apples  are  soft. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Two  hours  before  meal  time  prepare  the  meat  loaf  and 
put  in  oven ;  i  hour  before  pare  6  medium  sized  potatoes 
cut  in  halves  and  lay  in  the  pan  with  the  meat.  Prepare  the 
apples  and  start  them  to  baking.  Put  the  rutabaga  on  and 
while  it  is  cooking,  make  the  cabbage  salad  and  the  coft'ee, 
set  the  table,  finish  the  rutabaga.  Serve  the  loaf  whole  with 
the  potatoes  arranged  on  the  platter  around  it. 

22 


Monday 


SUMMER  MEALS 
BREAKFAST 

POTATO    CAKES 

RHUBARB  SAUCE 

COFFEE MILK 

Potato  Cakes 

]\Iix  left  over  mashed  potatoes  with  such  scraps  of  meat, 
dressing  and  gravy  as  may  be  on  hand.  Add  bread  crumbs 
as  necessary  to  make  the  mixture  stiff  enough  to  form  into 
cakes.      Brown  cakes  on  both  sides  in  hot  greased  pan. 

If  no  meat  is  on  hand  omit  or  use  a  Httle  bacon  or  salt 
pork. 

Rhubarb    Sauce 

Wash  and  peel  8  large  stalks  of  rhubarb.  Cut  into  y2 
inch  pieces,  and  add  almost  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Boil  gently  until  the  pieces  are  tender  but  still  whole.  Add 
sugar  to  taste  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Part  of  this  jiiice 
may  be  poured  oft'  to  make  a  fruit  drink  and  the  remainder 
served  with  the  sauce. 

There  will  be  sauce  enough  for  breakfast  and  to  serve 
with  rice  for  Tuesday's  dinner. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

^lake  potato  cakes  and  put  them  on  to  brown.  ^lake 
enough  coft'ee  for  dinner  as  well  as  for  breakfast,  and 
as  soon  as  the  last  cup  to  be  used  hot  is  poured,  pour  the 
remainder  oft*  of  tlie  grounds  and  set  aside  to  cool.  This 
is  to  be  used  for  iced  coft'ee  in  the  evening.  Rhubarb 
sauce  should  be  made  the  day  before  and  served  cold.  Make 
the  toast  and  set  the  table. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Monday 

RICE   AND   CHEESE    RAREBIT   ON    TOAST 

APPLE    SAUCE 

MILK  FOR  CHILDREN — TEA  FOR  .\DU LTS 

23 


Rice  and  Cheese  Rarebit 

54  cup  of  rice  2  tablespoons  flour 

^  cup  of  cheese  iH  teaspoons  salt 

lYz  cups  of  milk  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Boil  rice  in  plenty  of  water.  When  cooked  tender  add 
milk  and  the  flour  mixed  with  ^  cup  of  water.  Allow 
this  to  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  it  again  reaches 
boiling  point,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  cheese  chopped 
fine.  Stir  cheese  through  the  hot  mixture  until  it  melts 
and  serve  on  toast. 

Apple  Sauce 

Wash  and  quarter  6  summer  apples  and  remove  cores. 
Cover  with  hot   water  and  cook   slowly  until  apples  are 
tender,  but  do  not   lose  shape.      Add  ^   cup  sugar  just 
before  removing  from  fire. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  the  apple  sauce  just  after  the  breakfast  is  over  and 
set  away  to  cool ;  3^  hour  before  meal  time  put  the  rice  on 
to  cook-     Set  the  table,  finish  the  rarebit  and  make  the  tea. 

DINNER 
Monday 

hamburger  steak  with  tomatoes 

riced  potatoes 

itashed  kohlrabi 

oat:\ieal  cookies 

iced  coffee — milk 

Hamburger  Steak  with  Tomatoes 

1%  pounds  chopped  beef  Half  can  of  tomatoes 

Put  chopped  meat  into  hot  pan  to  brown,  stirring  con- 
stantly.     When  part  of  it  is  well  browned,  add  tomatoes, 
cover  closely  and  continue  cooking  on  low  fire  until  done. 
Use  fresh  tomatoes  if  cheaper. 

Riced  Potatoes 

Press  plain  boiled  potatoes,  hot,  through  ricer,  letting 
them  fall  into  dish  in  which  they  will  be  served.  A  potato 
ricer  is  a  great  convenience  and  may  be  bought  for  from 
25  cents  to  50  cents. 

Hashed  Kohlrabi 

Pare  kohlrabi,  cut  into  quarters  and  cook  until  tender 

24 


in  boiling  salted  water.     Evaporate  water,  chop   fine  and 
add  3  tablespoons  of  drippings. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Prepare  the  potatoes  and  kohlrabi  and  put  them  on  to 
cook  one-half  hour  before  the  meal  time.  Prepare  the 
hamburger  steak.  Set  the  table  and  add  ice  to  the  coffee, 
or  if  without  ice  put  into  a  clean  milk  bottle  and  place  in  a 
pan  under  cold  running  water.  Hash  the  kohlrabi,  rice  the 
potatoes  and  serve  the  meal.  (Use  oatmeal  cookies  made  on 
the  last  baking  day,  see  page  20.) 

BREAKFAST 
Tuesday 

OATMEAL  WITH  TOP  MILK 

FRUIT  TOAST 

COFFEE   FOR  ADULTS — MILK   FOR  CHILDREN 

Fruit   Toast 

Use  6  slices  of  toast  with  2  cups  of  stewed  fruit.    Fruit, 
such  as  plums,  berries,  cherries,  rhubarb,  etc.,  stewed  with 
plenty  of  water,  may  be  used.      Pour  it  over  the  freshly 
toasted  bread.     It  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Set  the  oatmeal  on  the  fire  to  reheat  after  cooking  over 
night.  Make  stewed  fruit  by  boiling  Yz  dozen  plums  or 
other  fruit  in  plenty  of  water.  Make  the  coffee  and  the 
toast. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Tuesday 

SPLIT  PEAS  WITH  CARROTS 

PRUNE  ROLLS 

TEA — MILK 

Split  Peas  with  Carrots 

Use  3  cups  split  peas,  cooked,  and  3  cups  of  boiled  car- 
rots.    Mash  the  peas  fine  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Add  carrots,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  J4  cup  of  milk.    Re- 
heat and  serve. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Soak  2  cups  of  peas  over  night  and  start  them  to  cook 
2  hours  before  meal  time.      This  will  make  enough   for 

25 


lunch  croquettes  on  Wednesday  also.  Wash  and  scrape 
carrots  and  cut  in  ^  inch  cubes.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  ^  hour  before  meal  time.  Set  the  table  and  add 
mashed  peas  to  carrots.  Make  tea  enough  for  this  meal 
and  for  iced  tea  for  dinner.  As  soon  as  the  hot  tea  is 
poured,  pour  oft*  the  remainder  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Use 
prune  rolls  made  on  the  last  baking  day. 

DINNER 

Tuesday 

POT   ROAST   WITH   VEGETABLES 

STEAMED    RICE   WITH    ST'EWED   CHERRIES 

ICED    TEA — FRUIT    DRINK    FOR    CHILDREN 

Pot  Roast  with  Vegetables 

2  lb?,  meat  2  cups  turnips  or  cabbage 

2  cups  carrots  2  cups  parsnips 

2  cups  rutabagas  i  onion 

Choose  a  piece  of  meat  with  some  bone  and  a  little  fat, 
such  as  pork  or  beef  shoulder,  or  brisket.  Brown  the  meat 
well  on  all  sides  in  a  hot  kettle,  with  a  bit  of  fat.  Add  2 
cups  of  water,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  for  about 
4  hours,  adding  water  as  necessary.  The  last  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  add  the  vegetables,  pared  and  cut  in  pieces. 
vServe  the  meat  whole  on  the  platter  with  vegetables  ar- 
ranged around  it. 

Steamed  Rice 

I  cup  rice  1V2  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  boiling  water 

Wash  rice  by  placing  in  a  strainer  and  allowing  the 
water  from  the  faucet  to  run  through  until  it  is  clean.  Add 
rice  to  boiling  water  and  boil  for  5  ininutes.  Place  stew- 
pan,  closely  covered,  in  larger  kettle  of  boiling  water  and 
steam  for  50  minutes. 

Steamed  Rice  with  Stewed  Cherries 

Use  I  box  of  cherries  to  3  cups  of  steamed  rice.  Wash 
and  stone  the  cherries,  cover  with  water  and  cook  until 
tender.  Add  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  Yx  cup  of  fruit  over 
each  dessert  dish  of  rice. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Four  hours  before  meal  time  put  the  pot  roast  on  to 

26 


cook.  If  a  3-pound  piece  is  used,  enough  will  be  left  for 
croquettes  on  Wednesday.  Put  rice  on  to  steam,  and  while 
it  is  cooking,  stcw^  the  cherries  and  set  them  aside  to  cool. 
As  soon  as  the  rice  is  done  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  There 
will  be  enough  of  it  for  the  griddle  cakes  on  Wednesday  as 
well  as  for  the  dessert. 

Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  meal  time  prepare  the 
vegetables  and  add  them  to  the  meat.  Set  the  table,  make 
the  fruit  drink  for  the  children  by  adding  a  little  of  the 
cherry  juice  and  2  cups  water  to  the  rhubarb  juice  left  from 
Monday.  Ice  the  tea  for  the  adults.  Finish  preparing  the 
dessert.     Serve  meat  on  platter  with  vegetables  around  it. 


Wednesday 


BREAKFAST 

RICE  GRIDDLE   CAKES 

FkiED    BACON    STRIPS 

BANANAS 

COFFEE MILK 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

fi   cup  boiled   rice  2  tablespoons  drippings 

2  cups  flour  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

iJ4  cup  liquid  i   teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients.     Add  rice  to  the  liquid  ingre- 
dients.   An  egg  may  be  added.     Combine  with  the  dry  and 
beat  well.    Cook  by  tablespoonfuls  the  same  as  other  griddle 
cakes. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  griddle  cakes  and  start  the  first  griddle  full  to 
cooking.  Make  the  coffee,  slice  and  fry  the  bacon,  and 
set  the  table,  attending  to  the  cooking  of  the  cakes  at  the 
same  time,  and  when  they  are  finished  serve  the  breakfast. 

Extra  Baking 

Before  starting  to  cook  the  noon  meal  mix  the  bread 
and  set  it  to  rise.  It  will  be  ready  for  the  second  kneading 
soon  after  lunch,  and  can  be  baked  before  time  for  the 
evening  meal.  ^lake  cinnamon  rolls  as  well  as  bread.  If 
coal  or  wood  fire  is  used,  plan  to  keep  the  top  of  the  stove 
full  while  fire  is  going.  Leave  no  empty  space  in  the  oven 
while  it  is  hot. 

27 


Wednesday 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 

SPLIT   PEA   LOAF 

SLICED  TOMATOES 

BREAD  WITH  OLEO 

TEA — MILK 

Split  Pea  Loaf 

4  cups  split  peas,  cooked         i  beaten  egg 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  i  teaspoon  minced  onion 

1  tablespoon  minced   parsley,  celery,   or  other   flavoring  as 

desired.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  If  too  soft  to  hold  its 
shape  add  more  bread  crumbs.  If  too  dry,  add  milk,  water 
or  another  egg.    Form  into  loaf.    Brown  in  oven. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Use  split  peas  cooked  on  Tuesday.  A  half  hour  before 
meal  time  make  loaf  and  put  in  oven  to  brown.  Slice  the 
tomatoes.    Set  the  table  and  make  the  tea. 

DINNER 
Wednesday 

BAKED  CROQUETTES  BAKED  POTATOES 

HOT  CINNAMON   ROLLS 

BANANAS    WITH    LEMON    JUICE 

LEMONADE 

Baked  Croquettes 

3  cups  chopped  meat  i  teaspoon  onion  juice 
3  cups  bread  crumbs  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  thick  white  sauce  Pepper  to  taste 

Make  a  white  sauce  by  stirring  ^  cup  flour  into  %  cup 
melted  fat,  cook  till  frothy,  then  add  slowly  2  cups  milk  or 
water,  or  the  two  mixed,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  cook 
again  till  thick,  stirring  till  smooth. 

Add  cooked  meat — beef,  mutton,  veal  or  pork — and  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  well,  form  into  croquettes  about  3  inches 
long,  lay  them  in  greased  pan,  and  set  in  hot  oven  to  brown. 

Bananas  with  Lemon  Juice 

Slice  4  bananas,  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and  lemon 
juice. 


Preparing  the  Meal 

Put  six  potatoes  for  dinner  and  four  for  tomorrow's  lunch 
in  oven  one  hour  before  meal  time,  while  bread  is  still 
baking.  Croquettes  and  cinnamon  rolls  (see  page  i6)  may 
be  baked  together  about  Yi  hour  before  meal  time.  Set  the 
table,  prepare  the  bananas  and  lemonade. 

BREAKFAST 
Thursday 

FARINA    MUSH    WITH   TOP   MILK 

CINNAMON    ROLLS    (BAKING   POWDER) 

COFFEE  FOR  ADULTS — MILK  FOR  CHILDREN 

Farina  Mush 

Use  >^4  cup  of  farina  to  4  cups  boiling  salted  water.  Make 
the  same  as  other  cereal  mush.    Cook  Yz  to  i  hour. 

Baking  Powder  Cinnamon  Rolls 

2  cups  flour  Ya  cup  milk  or  water 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder             Yx  cup  oleo 

Yj  teaspoon  salt  Yi  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons   fat  4  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  a  mixing  bowl, 
work  the  fat  in  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  add  the  milk 
or  water  slowly  and  mix  all  with  a  knife  into  a  soft  dough. 
Turn  on  to  a  floured  board  and  roll  lightly  into  a  sheet 
Yz   inch  thick. 

Spread  with  the  mixture  of  oleo.  sugar  and  cinnamon 
rubbed  together  in  the  mixing  bowl  and  roll  up  the  dough 
like  a  jelly  roll.     Cut  into  3^  inch  slices  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Put  on  water  to  boil  for  cereal  and  coffee :  while  the 
farina  is  cooking  make  and  bake  the  cinnamon  rolls,  make 
the  coft'ee  and  set  the  table. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Thursday 

CREAMED   POTATOES   AND   BEETS 

LETTUCE    WITH    FRENCH    SALAD    DRESSING 

BUTTERMILK 

Creamed  Potatoes  and  Beets 

Use  2  cups  boiled  potatoes,  2  cups  boiled  beets  and  2  cups 

29 


thin  white  sauce.  Cut  the  potatoes  and  beets  in  ^-inch 
cubes.  Reheat  in  white  sauce  made  separately ;  or,  add  2 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  ^2  cup  cold  water  and  i^  cups 
milk  to  the  vegetables  and  boil.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

French  Salad  Dressing 

Mix  two  parts  olive,  peanut  or  ^lad  oil  with  one  part 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Several  hours  before  meal  time  wash  carefully  2  bunches 
of  lettuce  and  lay  it  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  place  so  that  it  may 
be  crisp  when  time  to  serve.  Wash  6  beets  and  start  them 
to  cook  at  breakfast  time.  When  cooked  tender  remove 
from  lire.  One-half  hour  before  meal  time,  peel  part  of  the 
beets,  leaving  the  rest  for  Friday's  salad.  Skin  the  cold 
baked  potatoes  cooked  \Vednesday  and  cut  both  in  1^2 -inch 
cubes,  ^lake  the  white  sauce,  add  the  vegetables  and  reheat. 
Set  the  table  and  mix  the  salad  dressing. 

DINNER 
Thursday 

FRIED   calves'    HEARTS   WITH   BROWN   GRAVY 
^  MASHED  POTATOES 

LETTUCE   AND   GREEN    ONION    SALAD 
COFFEE — MILK 

Fried  Calves  Hearts 

iy2  pound  hearts,  sliced  lengthwise,  in  ^-inch  slices.  Soak 
in  cold  salt  water  for  one  hour,  roll  in  flour  or  bread  crumbs 
and  brown  both  sides  on  hot  suet  fat,  cover  pan  and  cook 
on  very  slow  fire  until  tender.    Use  beef  heart  the  same  way. 

Brown  Gravy 

3  tablespoons  drippings  2    cups    water,    or    water    and 

3  tablespoons  flour  milk    mixed 

Add  flour  to  hot  drippings  and  let  it  brown.  Add  liquid 
gradually,  stirring  constantly  until  a  smooth  mixture  is 
obtained,  and  boil  3  minutes. 

Lettuce  and  Green  Onion  Salad 

Wash  and  trim  the  tops  of  the  onions.  Serve  them  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

30 


Preparing  the  Meal 

One  hour  before  meal  time  put  the  calves'  hearts  to  soak. 
Prepare  the  potatoes  and  put  them  on  to  cook  ^  hour  before 
meal  time.  Brown  the  hearts  and  while  they  are  cooking 
make  the  coffee,  set  the  table,  dress  the  salad  and  mash  the 
potatoes. 

BREAKFAST 
Friday 

CRACKED    WHEAT 

CODDLED  EGGS  TOAST 

COFFEE    FOR   ADULTS COCOA    FOR    CHILDREN 

Coddled  Eggs 

Put  6  eggs  in  stewpan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Cook  on  low  fire  until  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Cracked  wheat  should  be  started  to  cook  the  night  before. 
Set  on  to  reheat,  make  the  coffee,  put  on  the  eggs.  While 
they  are  cooking,  make  the  cocoa,  making  six  extra  cups 
to  serve  cold  at  dinner.    Set  the  table,  make  the  toast. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Friday 

CREAM    OF    NAVY    BEAN    SOUP 
LETTUCE    W^ITH    CHEESE  AND   FRENCH   DRESSING 

Cream  of  Navy  Bean  Soup 

2  cups  cooked  navy  beans        3  tablespoons  drippings 
1^4  cups  milk  T,  tablespoons  flour 

ij/j  cups  water  i  tablespoon  minced  onion 

Minced  celery,  etc.,  as  desired  for  flavoring 

Stir  the  flour,  onion  and  other  flavorings  in  hot  drippings 
until  they  are  browned.  Add  water  and  boil.  Mash  the 
beans  fine  or  put  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.    \\'hen  hot  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Lettuce  with  Cheese  and  French  Dressing 

Mix  the  French  dressing,  add  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 
Stir  and  add  to  the  lettuce. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Soak  i}4  cups  beans  over  night  for  soup  and  for  Satur- 
day's lunch.  Start  them  to  cook  about  ij^  hours  before 
meal  time.     Wash  and  drain  the  lettuce  and  leave  in  ice 

31 


box  to  get  crisp.  If  there  is  no  ice  box,  put  the  lettuce  in  a 
tin  pail  with  a  tight  cover  in  a  cool  place  or  under  running 
water.  One-half  hour  before  meal  time  set  the  table,  make 
the  soup  and  dress  the  salad. 

DINNER 
Friday 

SALT   CODFISH   HASH 

BEET  SALAD 

CUP  CAKES  COLD  COCOA 

Salted  Codfish  Hash 

iVz  cups  salt  codfish  3  cups  potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  uniform 
size.  Pick  salt  cod  in  small  pieces  and  drop  the  potatoes 
and  fish  into  boiling  water.  Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft. 
Drain,  mash  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  hot  greased  frying 
pan  until  well  browned  on  under  side.  Serve  with  one-half 
folded  on  top  of  the  other  like  an  omelet. 

Beet  Salad 

Cut  boiled  beets  in  }_>-inch  cubes.  Mix  with  boiled  salad 
dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

1  cup  milk  2  itgg  yolks  or     whole  egg 
Yi  cup  vinegar  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  pepper 

yi    teaspoon    mustard 

Make  smooth  paste  of  flour  with  part  of  milk,  add  re- 
maining milk  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Set  on  back  of 
stove,  add  ^gg,  stirring  it  well  through  the  mixture,  cover 
.'ind  allow  to  stand  10  minutes  in  order  to  cook  the  tgg. 
W'hen  cool,  add  vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  and  mix 
thoroughly. 

Quick  Cup  Cakes 

Place  the  flour  sifter  in  the  mixing  bowl  and  put  in  it 
i){>  cups  of  flour,  44  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  2  level 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  ]/>  teaspoon  of  salt.  Sift  in 
the  bowl. 

In  the  measuring  cup  melt  ^  cup  oleo  or  crisco  or  lard, 
break  in  i  or  2  eggs,  fill  up  the  cup  with  milk.  Add  3^ 
teaspoon  flavoring  extract  or   V^  teaspoon  of  spice.     Mix 

32 


with  the  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well  2  or  3  minutes.    Bake 
in  greased  muffin  tins  in  quick  oven. 

For  Chocolate  Cake  add  2  tablespoons  cocoa  in  place 
of  spice. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Wash  enough  beets  for  salad  and  for  lunch  on  Saturday. 
Cut  off  the  tops  and  save  them  to  cook  for  greens.  Cook 
the  beets  immediately  after  breakfast,  so  they  will  be  cold 
when  needed.  Prepare  the  codfish  and  potatoes  and  put 
them  on  to  cook  ^4  hour  before  meal  time.  Make  the  cakes 
and  while  they  are  baking  set  the  table,  make  the  salad, 
brown  the  codfish  hash.    Use  cocoa  left  from  breakfast. 

BREAKFAST 

Saturday 

GRAHAM    MUSH    WIX.H    TOP    MILK 
CREAM   TOAST — COFFEE 

Creamed  Toast 

6  slices  toast  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  milk  I  egg 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  cup  water 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  in  stewpan,  add  water  and  stir 
until  smooth.  Add  i  cup  milk  and  boil  until  thick.  Add 
remaining  milk,  heat  to  boiling  point  and  remove  from  fire. 
Add  a  beaten  egg  to  the  hot  sauce,  stirring  it  well  through 
the  mixture.    Pour  over  hot  toast  and  serve. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Reheat  graham  mush  which  was  started  to  cook  the  night 
before.  Make  the  toast,  start  the  coffee  and  make  the  sauce 
for  toast.    Set  the  table  and  finish  the  toast  and  coffee. 

Extra  Baking 

Mix  the  bread  about  the  same  time  as  on  Wednesday, 
planning  to  have  it  baked  about  the  time  the  evening  meal 
is  served. 

Make  plain  rolls  for  this  meal  and  sugar  rolls  for  Sunday 
breakfast.  Mix  the  spice  cake  for  Sunday  ^^2  hour  before 
the  bread  is  ready  to  bake,  and  bake  it  first,  as  it  requires 
a  cooler  oven  than  the  bread.  Cook  the  plums  for  Sunday 
lunch  w^hile  bread  is  baking. 

33 


Saturday 


LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 

PUREE   OF    BEANS    AND   TOMATOES 
RHUBARB   MARMALADE 


Boiled  Beans  and  Tomatoes 

3  cups  cooked  navy  beans  2  tablespoons  drippings 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes  i  tablespoon  minced  onion 

I  tablespoon  minced  parsley  or  celery  if  desired 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Add  tomatoes  to  beans  and  boil  Vi  hour.  Cook  onions 
and  other  seasonings  in  the  drippings,  add  to  the  beans. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade 

ZV2  pounds  rhubarb  3  pounds  (6  cups)  sugar 

2  lemons  2  oranges 

Cut  rhubarb  into  ^-inch  pieces.  With  a  sharp  knife  pare 
off  the  colored  part  of  the  lemon  and  orange  and  part  of 
the  other,  then  cut  this  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  the 
rhubarb.  Remove  remaining  peel  of  the  oranges  and  lemons, 
divide  into  sections ;  add  this  to  mixture  and  cook,  boiling 
y2  hour;  add  sugar  and  boil  very  slowly  i>^  hours  longer. 
Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  rhubarb  marmalade  after  breakfast  is  over  and 
put  away  in  sealed  jars  the  part  not  to  be  used  at  once. 
One-half  hour  before  meal  time  start  the  beans  and  toma- 
toes and  while  they  are  cooking  set  the  table,  prepare  the 
seasoning  and  add  it  to  the  beans. 

DINNER 
Saturday 

LAMB  STEW — BOILED  RICE 
BEET  GREENS 
COFFEE  FOR  ADULTS — MILK   FOR  CHILDREN 

Lamb  Stew  with  Rice 

iH  pounds  lamb  or  mutton  2  cups  carrots 

Use  lamb  or  mutton  from  shoulder,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  without  boiling  for 
4  to  6  hours.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  meal  time 
add  carrots,  pared  and  cut  into  ^-inch  pieces.  When  done 
thicken  the  gravy  with  2  tablespoons  flour.  Serve  on  large 
platter  with  a  border  of  boiled  or  steamed  rice. 

34 


Beet  Greens 

Wash  greens  carefully.  Cook  i  hour  or  more,  until 
tender,  in  boiling  salted  water.  Season  with  pepper  and 
drippings. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Three  hours  before  meal  time  put  the  lamb  on  to  stew, 
using  3  pounds  of  the  meat,  so  that  enough  may  be  left 
over  for  Turkish  Pilaf  on  Sunday.  Put  greens  on.  Wash 
and  pare  carrots  and  cut  in  long,  narrow  strips.  One-half 
hour  before  meal  time  add  them  to  the  stew.  Wash  1^2 
cups  of  rice  and  put  on  to  boil.  This  will  make  enough  for 
Sunday  also.    Make  the  coffee  and  set  the  table. 

Set  aside  the  meat  for  Sunday,  and  thicken  the  gravy. 
Evaporate  the  water  from  the  rice  and  season  the  greens 
and  serve. 


Sunday 


BREAKFAST 

FRIED   BACON    WITH    EGG 

TOAST FRESH   PEACHES 

COFFEE   FOR   ADULTS 
CINNAMON   TEA  FOR  CHILDREN 

Fried  Bacon  with  Egg 

Fry  the  bacon.  Break  eggs  and  drop  them  whole  into  the 
hot  fat.    Cook  on  low  fire  without  turning. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Make  the  coffee  and  toast,  put  milk  on  to  heat.  Set  the 
table.  Wash  the  peaches  and  serve  them  whole  in  a  fruit 
dish.  Fry  the  bacon,  remove  from  the  pan,  and  cook  the 
eggs.     Make  cinnamon  tea. 

DINNER 
Sunday 

TURKISH   PILAF 

HASHED    SPINACH    WITH    EGG 

RHUBARB  TAPIOCA 

35 


Turkish  Pilaf 

3  cups  rice  2  cups  meat,  chopped  and 
i^  cups  of  tomatoes  cooked 

1^2  cups  water 

Mix  rice  with  tomatoes  and  water,  place  alternate  layer 
of  the  mixture  of  chopped  meat  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  bake  until  brown  in  moderate  oven. 

Hashed  Spinach  with  Hard  Cooked  Egg 

J/2  peck  spinach  2  eggs 

Wash  spinach  very  carefully.  Cook  in  boihng  salted 
water  until  tender,  about  30  minutes.  Lift  the  spinach  out  of 
the  water.  Chop  line  and  season  with  3  tablespoons  drip- 
pings. Serve  in  vegetable  dish  with  a  border  of  hard  cooked 
eggs  cut  into  quarter  sections. 

Save  the  water  in  which  the  spinach  was  cooked  for  soup, 
as  it  contains  valuable  salts. 

Rhubarb  Tapioca 

4  cups  rhubarb  ^-^  cup  tapioca 

2  cups  sugar 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
add  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  transparent.  Add  sugar, 
and  rhubarb,  peeled  and  cut  into  half-inch  pieces,  and  bake 
until  rhubarb  is  tender.     Serve  hot  or  cold  with  milk. 

Apple  Tapioca  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  and  prepare  this  dish  imme- 
diately after  breakfast  and  set  it  aside  to  get  cold.  An 
hour  before  meal  time,  cook  the  eggs  for  the  spinach,  follow- 
ing the  directions  for  hard  cooked  eggs.  Prepare  the  lamb 
stew  left  from  Saturday  by  picking  the  meat  from  the  bones 
and  chopping  it.  Make  the  Pilaf,  using  this  with  rice 
cooked  on  Saturday,  and  put  in  the  oven  40  minutes  before 
meal  time.  Wash  the  spinach  and  while  it  is  cooking  make 
the  coffee  and  set  the  table.  Season  the  spinach,  take  it 
up,  and  arrange  the  eggs.  Serve  the  Pilaf  in  dish  in  which 
it  was  baked.  Leave  the  dessert  in  the  ice  box  until  the 
first  part  of  the  dinner  is  eaten. 

36 


SUPPER 
Sunday 

ENGLISH   MONKEY 
SPICE    CAKE — STEWED    CHERRIES 

English  Monkey 

4  cups  bread  crumbs  H  cup  cheese 

2  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Heat  the  bread  crumbs  and  milk.  If  the  crumbs  are  not 
well  moistened,  add  water.  When  hot,  add  cheese  cut  in 
small  pieces,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  until  cheese  is  melted. 
May  be  served  on  toast. 

Spice  Cake 

I  cup  dark  brown  sugar  i  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

I  cup  cold  water  1/3  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

V/z  cups  seeded  raisins  ^  nutmeg 

Yi  cup  drippings  or  crisco  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  the  above  ingredients  together  three  minutes,  then 
cool.  When  cold  stir  in  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  water.  Add  2  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  ]/> 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  as  a  loaf  in  a  slow  oven 
with  the  "Extra  Baking"  on  Saturday.  Nuts  are  a  pleasing 
addition. 

Preparing  the  Meal 

Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  start  English  Monkey 
and  while  it  is  heating  set  the  table.  Add  the  cheese  to  the 
hot  mixture  and  serve. 

GOVERNMENT  BULLETINS 

Free.     Send  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 

No.  391     Economical  Use  of  Meats  in  the  Home. 

No.  256     Preparation  of  the  Vegetable  for  the  Table. 

No.  203     Canned  Fruits,  Preserves  and  Jellies. 

No.  389    Bread  and  Bread  Making. 

No.  565     Corn  ^feal  as  Food  and  Ways  of  Using  It. 

Other  Bulletins  and  Books 

Freehand  Cooking  on  Scientific  Principles.  10  cents.  American 
School  of  Home  Economics. 

Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Preparation  of  Meals,  Robinson 
and  Hammel.  $1.50  (cloth  edition).  American  School  of  Home 
Economics. 

Low  Cost  Recipes.  Jacobs.     75  cents. 

Economical  Cooking  for  Two,  Gibbs.     20  cents. 

Housekeeping  Notes,  Kittredge.    80  cents. 

2,7 


HOUSEHOLD  ENOINEERING 
Scientific  Management  in  the  Home 

By  Mrs.  Christine  Frederick. 

Author     The  New  Housekeeping,"  Cousulting  Household  Editor  Ladies'  Home  Journal,  Etc. 

1.  The    T^abor-Savingr    Kitchen:     Efficient    Arrangement    of    Sink,    Stoves, 

Tables,  etc.;  Grouping  Small  Equipment  to  Save  Steps  and  Labor; 
"Routing"  Kitchen  Work;  Making  the  Best  of  Old  Kitchens;  Built- 
in  Conveniences;  Lighting,  Ventilation,  Floor  and  Wall-Coverings; 
Choice    of    Utensils;    Lists    of    Equipment    with   Prices. 

2.  Helpful    Household    Tools:     How    to    Buy    Equipment;    Permanent    In- 

vestment, Construction,  Shape,  Size,  etc.;  Four  Groups  of  Tools; 
Labor,  Time,  Step  and  Fuel-Saving;  The  "Fireless"  Cooker;  Kitchen 
Cabinet,  Wheel  Tray,  etc.;  Avoid  "Over-buying,"  "Seconds,"  etc.; 
Beauty  Possible  in  Choice  of  Utensils;  Gas,  Electric,  Gasolene,  Oil, 
Alcohol  Devices — Their  Cost  and  Maintenance;  Good  Tools,  Like 
Good    Servants,    Must    Be    Treated    Wisely. 

3.  rians  and  Methods  for  Daily  Housework:     How   to   Make   up   a  Daily 

Work  Schedule;  Time  Studies  of  Various  Tasks;  What  the  "Rest 
Period"  Means;  Planning  Work  for  the  Week;  Preparing  Menus 
in  Advance;  Adjusting  Schedule  to  Special  Conditions,  i.  e.,  House 
Arrangement,   Number  in  Family,   Children,   Hours  of  Meals,   etc. 

4.  3Iethods  of  Cleaning:     Definition  of   "Standard  Practice";   T\niat   Time- 

Studies  of  Cleaning  Show;  What  is  :Meant  by  "Change  of  Shift"; 
Standard  Practice  for  Cleaning  Bedrooms,  Bathrooms,  Dining- 
room,  etc.;  Absorption  vs.  Scattering  of  Dust;  Improved  Cleaning 
Tools;  Importance  of  Right  Work  Dress;  a  House  Closet  for  Keep- 
ing  Tools   in   Order. 

5.  Food    Planning    for    the    Family:     The    High    Cost    of    Cooking;    How 

to  Reduce  It;  Meals  Suited  to  the  Individuals  of  the  Family;  Time 
and  Labor-saving  Cooking  Methods;  Menus  by  the  "V^'eek;  Similar 
Processes  and  Similar  Cooking  Methods  in  the  Same  Meal;  Low- 
Cost   Dishes  in  High-Cost   Times;   Following  the   "Balanced   Ration." 

6.  The  Practical  Laundry;  Methods  and  Tools:    Various  Types  of  Wash- 

ing Machines,  "Dolly,"  Vacuum,  Cylinder  and  Oscillating;  Drying 
Equipment — Outdoor,  Indoor;  Ironing  Stands,  Various  Types  of 
Flat-Irons — Gas,  Electric,  Gasolene,  Alcohol;  The  Efficient  Laundry; 
Methods  of  Work;  Clothes  Reels,   Chutes,   Covers,  Fasteners,   etc. 

7.  Family  Financing  and  Record-keeping:     Importance  of  Knowing  How 

to  Prepare  Budget;  Simple  Account-Keeping  for  the  Busy  Home- 
Maker;  Book  or  Card  Method;  Immediate,  Reliable  Records  in  the 
Household;  Card  Indexes  for  the  Homcmaker;  Simple  Filing  De- 
vices for  the  Home;  New  Way  of  Handling  Recipes;  Importance 
of    Labeling;    The    "Visible"    Index. 

8.  Economical  Household  Purchasing:    Woman  the  Purchasing  Agent  for 

the  Family;  Choice  of  Manufactured  Goods  Places  the  Responsi- 
bility On  the  Hom.emaker;  Labels,  Trade-Marks.  Adulteration; 
Large  versus  Small  Quantity  Buying;  Sizes  of  Cans;  Packaged 
versus  Bulk  Goods;  Relation  of  Consumer  to  Retailer;  How  the 
Homemaker  Can  Lower  the  Cost  of  Living;  What  She  Should  Know 
About  Advertising;  Weights  and  Measures;  "Standards  of  Value"; 
Municipal    Markets;    Parcel   Post. 

9.  House    Planning    and    Sanitation:     The    House    of    Efficiency;    Country 

Homes  and  Conditions;  Arrangements  Which  Mean  Easy  Work; 
Built-in  Fixtures;  Closets;  Laundry  and  Dust  Chutes;  Wood  and 
Coal-Boxes;  Elevator;  Icebox,  Refrigerating  Plans;  Disposal  of 
Ashes.  Refuse  and  Garbage;  Radiator  Arrangements;  Vacuum  Sys- 
tems; Sanitarv  Care;  Household  Insects;  The  Fly  Nuisance. 
la  The  Servantless  Household:  Division  of  Work;  the  Children;  Outside 
Help  bv  the  Hour,  the  Laundress.  Children's  Nurse,  Student  Help, 
Etc.;  Co-operative  Schemes;  Vacuum  Cleaning,  Janitor  Service, 
Laundries;  Municipal  Garbage  Collector,  Street  Cleaning,  etc.;  Rela- 
tive  Cost   of  Conducting  a   Servantless   Home. 

11.  Management  of  Household  Servants:    Schedules  for  the  Servant;  Defi- 

nite "Off-Time";  'Wage  and  Bonus  Systems;  Daily  and  Weekly 
Duty;  Contracts  When  Engaging  Help;  "Agencies";  the  "Mistress" 
Problem;    Duties   and   "Privileges"    of  Waitress,   Cook,   etc. 

12.  The    Homemaker's   Personal    Efficiency:     Housekeeping    as    Difficult    as 

any  other  Profession;  How  Efficiency  Can  Be  Applied  to  the  Home; 
Not  the  Task  Itself,  but  the  "Way  it  is  Done  Determines  Whether 
it  is  Drudgery  or  Pleasure;  Homemaking  as  Cultural  as  Teaching 
or  business,  etc.;  insniration  from  Men's  Work;  Man's  share  m 
Efficient  Homemaking;  Homemaking  as  a  Paid  Profession;  The 
Visiting  Housekeeper;  Household  Efficiency  Specialists. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  690  2 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


.>->^  ^. 


