DANISH 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


For 

DANISH  APPETITES 


THIRD  PRINTING 


FOR  ADDITIONAL  COPIES 
SEND  TO 

DANISH  VILLAGE  GIFTS,  INC. 

P.  0.  BOX  DD 
SOL  VANG,  CALIFORNIA 


The  recipes  in  this  book  have  been 
collected  over  a  period  of  years  by  the 
writer.  All  of  them  are  dear  to  the  heart 
of  a  Danish  immigrant  who  brought  this 
little  bit  of  her  homeland  with  her  to  the 
new  country  and  all  of  them  were  do- 
nated to  this  book  as  something  precious 
from  the  giver. 

LYLA  G.  SOLUM 


Table  of  Contents 


Danish  Pastry  1 

Cookies  9 

Cakes 14 

Pancakes,  ^Ebleskiver  17 

Meats    20 

Fish    27 

Soup  31 

Sauces  and  Gravies  36 

Vegetables    39 

Salads  43 

Desserts    46 

Pickles    52 

Smorrebrod    .  ..54 


A  few  of  the  ingredients  and  cooking 
utensils  used  in  this  book  may  not  be  ob- 
tainable everywhere.  The  distributor  of 
the  book  will  be  glad  to  furnish  informa- 
tion to  any  inquiries  about  where  they 
may  be  purchased. 


WRITE  TO 
DANISH  VILLAGE  GIFTS 

P.  0.  BOX  DD 
SOLVANG,  CALIF. 


Danish  families  call  the  various  styles  and  shapes  of  Danish 
Pastry  "Coffee  Bread"  and  a  real  Danish  breakfast  consists  of 
Coffee  Bread  and  Coffee,  nothing  else.  In  America,  these  rich 
pastries  are  served  as  often  for  dessert  or  for  an  afternoon  party 
as  they  are  for  breakfast. 

Cardamom,  which  is  used  in  many  of  these  recipes,  is  a  fav- 
orite spice  that  resembles  cinnamon  in  taste.  It  is  a  seed  which 
Danish  cooks  crush  to  a  powder  with  a  rolling  pin.  Cinnamon 
may  be  substituted  but  will  not  give  the  real  Danish  flavor. 

The  term  "warm  place"  in  coffee  bread  recipes  means  about 
80  to  85  degrees  of  temperature. 

Butter  is  called  for  in  all  of  these  Pastry  recipes.  Vegetable 
shortening,  or  oleomargarine,  may  be  substituted  unless  other- 
wise specified,  but  you  will  lose  the  real,  good,  old-world  flavor 
by  doing  so. 

Wienerbr0d 

2  cups  Milk  3  Eggs 

2  Yeast  Cakes  1  teaspoon  Cardamom 

6  cups  Flour  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  cup  soft  Butter  Almonds,  Cooked  Prunes 

1/2  cup  Sugar  Applesauce   or   Jelly 

Soak  yeast  cakes  in  l/£  cup  lukewarm  milk  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore adding  to  other  ingredients.  Warm  the  rest  of  the  milk  slightly. 
Mix  all  ingredients,  except  butter,  thoroughly.  Put  onto  floured 
board  and  knead  until  smooth.  Roll  to  about  y2  inch  thickness  and 
spread  with  butter.  Fold  and  refold  four  times  and  set  aside  in 
greased  bowl  to  raise  for  45  minutes.  Keep  warm.  Place  on 
floured  board  and  roll  to  14  inch  thickness.  Refold  four  times 
and  roll  again;  by  this  time  there  should  not  be  any  of  the  butter 
showing.  Cut  into  long  strips,  1  inch  wide.  These  strips  are  then 
formed  into  twists,  braids,  squares  or  pretzels  to  vary  the  shape 
of  the  individual  pieces  to  be  served.  Vary  the  flavor  of  each  with  a 
sprinkle  of  chopped  almonds,  a  dash  of  jelly,  or  a  slit  in  the 
dough  that  is  filled  with  cooked  prunes  or  applesauce.  Let  rise 
to  double  bulk  (being  sure  to  always  keep  it  warm)  and  bake 
until  brown  at  375°.  While  still  warm,  glaze  with  a  mixture  of 
powdered  sugar  and  water. 


Two  recipes  that  have  been  given  to  us  for  the  first  publication 
by  Birkholms  Solvang  Bakery,  Solvang,  California. 


Danish  Pastry  (Wienerbr0d) 

1/2  Pmt  Milk  11/2  oz.  Yeast   (varied) 

2  oz.  Sugar  1  -  2  Eggs 

\l/2  oz.  Butter  Cardamom 

3  -  31/2  cups  Flour 

Not  too  stiff  a  dough  -  -  do  not  mix  too  much.  Put  dough 
on  table  and  flatten  out  in  a  square  piece,  then  lay  on  12  oz.  of  but- 
ter or  margarine  and  fold  the  dough  over.  Roll  out  in  a  square  and 
fold  over  3  times.  Roll  again  and  repeat  procedure  3  times.  Dough 
is  ready  to  cut  out  in  desired  shapes. 

Filling:  Use  any  kind  of  fruit  or  Almond  paste. 

Base  Filling:  1  cup  Butter,  1  cup  Sugar. 


COOKIES: 

Danish  Short  Bread  (Finsk  Br0d) 


12  oz.  Flour 
5  oz.  Sugar 
5  oz.  Butter 


5  oz.  Margarine 
1  Egg 


Roll  out  in  long  strips  and  cut  to  desired  sizes.  Sprinkle  with 
Sugar  and  Almonds.  Makes  about  75  cookies. 


Brunsvigerstang  (Pastry  Strip) 

DOUGH:  FILLING: 

2-cups  Flour  1/2  cup  soft  Butter 

1/2  teaspoon  Salt  l/±  cup  Brown  Sugar 

14  cup  Sugar  1/2  teaspoon  Cardamom 

1/2  Yeast  Cake  ^4  teaspoon  Almond 

1/2  cup  Milk  Flavoring 

2  Eggs,  well  beaten  Raisins  and  Citron  or 

Cooked   Prunes   or 

Applesauce 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  milk  which  has  been  heated  to  luke 
warm.  Add  the  beaten  eggs  then  beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  dough 
ingredients.  Cover  with  a  damp  cloth  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place 
until  double  in  bulk.  Remove  to  floured  board  and  knead  into  a 
long,  thin,  oblong  shaped  roll  -  -  about  1/2  inch  thick.  A  little 
flour  may  be  needed  to  make  it  easier  to  handle.  However,  dough 
must  be  very  soft.  Spread  with  butter  and  place  the  filling  of 
your  choise  down  the  center;  fold  in  the  two  outside  edges  until 
they  just  meet,  leaving  a  little  of  the  filling  exposed.  Let  rise  in 
warm  place  for  about  25  minutes.  Bake  until  brown  at  375°. 


Galop  Kringle  (Quick  Coffee  Bread) 

2  cakes  Yeast  1  teasoon  grated 

}4  cup  lukewarm  Milk              Lemon  Rind 

1/2  CUP  Sugar  5  cups  sifted  Flour 

1  teaspoon  Salt  Chopped  Nuts  or  chopped 
1/2  cup  Butter  Dried  Fruit,  brown  Sugar 

2  Eggs,  well  beaten  Cardamom  and  Butter 
1  cup  Milk 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  milk  while  mixing  the  other 
ingredients.  Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  the  hot  milk  and  cool 
to  lukewarm.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  mix  to  a  soft 
dough;  a  little  more  or  less  flour  may  be  used  to  keep  the  dough 
just  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Knead  until  smooth  and  satiny — long 
kneading  will  improve  it.  Place  in  greased  bowl  and  let  rise  to 
double  bulk  in  warm  place.  Knead  down  and  form  into  two  ob- 
long shaped  pieces.  Spread  with  soft  butter,  sprinkle  with  carda- 
mom and  cover  with  chopped  fruit  or  nuts.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll 
and  shape  like  a  pretzel  on  a  baking  sheet.  Clip  through  the  dough 
with  scissors  in  several  places  along  the  outer  edge.  Let  rise  to 
double  bulk  in  warm  place  and  bake  until  brown  at  375°. 


S0sterkage  (Sister's  Cake) 

1  cup  Milk  Ifo  pound  Butter 

14  cup  Sugar  3  Eggs 

1  cake  Yeast  1  teaspoon  Care 

3  cups  Flour  l/2  cup  Raisins 


«  ^se3 

1  teaspoon  Cardamom 


Soak  yeast  cake  in  l/^  CUP  °f  milk,  lukewarm.  Bring  the 
rest  of  the  milk  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  1  cup  of  flour  and  the 
salt  while  it  is  still  hot.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  lukewarm,  add 
the  yeast  cake  mixture  and  let  it  stand  one  hour.  Cream  butter  and 
add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Add  to 
first  mixture  and  stir  in  cardamom.  Add  the  rest  of  the  flour  and 
continue  beating  with  a  spoon  until  well  blended;  the  batter  should 
be  quite  stiff,  yet  soft  enough  to  be  poured  from  the  bowl  into  a 
greased  pan.  Add  raisins  and  let  rise  to  double  in  bulk.  Brush  with 
thick  cream  (undiluted  canned  milk  may  be  used),  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  for  about  50  minutes  at  350°. 

Frugt  Roulade  (Fruit  Roll) 

1  cup  Butter  1  teaspoon  Almond 
21/2  cups  Flour  Extract 

2  Eggs  1  cup  Raisins  or  Jelly  or 
1/2  CUP  Sugar  Cooked  Prunes  or 

1/2  cup  Milk  Applesauce 

2  teaspoons   Baking  Powder 

Mix  flour  and  butter  as  you  would  for  a  pie  crust.  Add  the 
beaten  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and  flavoring.  Sprinkle  the  baking  pow- 
der over  the  top  and  mix  well.  Roll  out  to  1/4  inch  thickness.  Spread 
the  filling  down  the  center  of  this  strip  and  fold  the  outside  edges 
in.  Cut  in  pieces  3  inches  long  and  bake  on  a  flat  tin  until  brown 
at  375°. 


Julekage  (Christmas  Coffee  Cake) 

1  cake  Yeast  l/2  cup  Butter 

1  cup  Lukewarm  Milk  1/2  cup  Raisins 

1  teaspoon  Salt  ^  cup  chopped  Citron 
1/2  cup  Sugar  1/2  cup  Currants 

2  Eggs,  beaten  l/2  cup  blanched, 

4  cups  Flour  chopped  Almonds 

Dissolve  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  milk.  Add  salt,  sugar,  eggs, 
and  1/2  the  softened  butter.  Add  the  flour,  mix  well  and  pour 
onto  a  floured  board  and  knead  until  smooth  and  satiny.  Cover 
with  a  damp  cloth  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  in 


bulk.  Knead  down  and  knead  in  the  fruit  and  nuts.  Let  rise  again  to 
double  in  bulk.  Place  on  floured  board  and  roll  to  about  1  inch 
thickness.  Spread  with  butter  and  fold  outside  edges  until  they  touch 
in  center.  Shape  in  ring  on  a  flat  pan;  let  rise  about  30  minutes  and 
bake  until  brown  at  375°.  This  may  also  be  shaped  into  a  round 
loaf,  the  top  spread  with  butter,  and  baked  for  1  hour. 

Sm0rhorn   (Butter  Horns) 

1  cake  Yeast  3  cups  Flour 

%  cup  Milk  1/2  teaspoon  Salt 

1  cup  Butter  1  Egg  White,   beaten  slightly 

1   tablespoon  Sugar  Ground  Almonds  &  Sugar 

Dissolve  yeast  in  the  milk  which  has  been  heated  to  luke- 
warm. Mix  1/2  CUP  butter,  sugar,  flour,  salt  as  you  would  for  pie 
crust;  add  the  yeast  mixture  and  mix  well.  Let  rise  to  double 
bulk.  Roll  out  to  1/4.  inch  thickness.  Spread  the  other  l/£  cup  of 
butter  over  all.  Fold  over  four  thickness  and  roll  to  1/4.  inch.  Re- 
peat this  three  times.  Let  rise  30  minutes,  then  fold,  roll  and  re- 
fold three  more  times  or  until  all  traces  of  the  butter  have  dis- 
appeared. Roll  out  last  time  and  cut  into  3  inch  squares.  Cut  these 
squares  into  triangles.  Roll  each  triangle  from  the  broad  side  and 
pinch  down  the  tip  to  hold  it.  Brush  with  egg  white,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  ground  almonds.  Let  rise  to  double  bulk.  Bake  until 
brown  at  375°. 


Kaffekage  (Coffee  Cake) 

1  cake  Yeast  2  Eggs,  well  beaten 

2  cups  Milk  1  teaspoon  Cardamom 
1  cup  Sugar  Flour  enough  to  make 
1  cup  Butter  stiff  dough 

1  teaspoon  Salt 

Soak  the  yeast  in  ^  cup  of  the  milk  that  has  been  heated  to 
lukewarm.  Scald  the  remaining  milk  with  the  sugar,  salt  and 
butter.  While  it  is  still  hot  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  light 
batter.  When  cooled  to  lukewarm  add  the  eggs,  yeast  and  carda- 
mom. Let  rise  for  an  hour,  in  a  warm  place,  then  work  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well  and  set  aside  in  a  greased 
bowl  until  doubled  in  bulk.  Roll  out  to  1  inch  thickness,  spread 
with  soft  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Let  rise 
to  2  inches  and  bake  at  350°.  Raisins  may  be  worked  into  the 
dough  at  the  time  the  last  flour  is  added  if  desired. 


Sur  F10de  Kaff  ekage  No.  1 
(Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake) 

94  cup  Sugar  1  cup  Sour  Cream 

1/2  cup  Butter  1  cup  Raisins 

1  cake  Yeast  ^4  CUP  Chopped  Citron 

3  Eggs  1/2  teaspoon  Cardamom 
3  cups  Flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  l/2  CUP  warm  water.  Cream  sugar  and 
butter  together  and  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  sour  cream.  Add  the 
yeast  mixture  and  the  flour.  Stir  in  the  fruit  and  the  cardamom. 
Pour  into  an  8  inch  square  pan  and  let  rise  until  nearly  double. 
Bake  until  brown  at  375°.  This  is  delicious  served  warm. 

Sur  F10de  Kaffekage  No.  2 
(Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake) 

1/2  pound  Butter  1  cup  Flour 

94  cup  Sugar  1  teaspoon  Salt 

3  tablespoons  Sour  Cream  Pinch  of  Soda 

2  Eggs  1  teaspoon  Baking  Powder 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  eggs  and  cream  and  beat  well. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  greased  8  inch 
square  pan  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  l/2  CUP  crushed  cornflakes 
which  has  been  mixed  with  1/2  cup  brown  sugar.  Bake  at  375°. 
Sweet  cream  may  be  used  with  this,  in  which  case  omit  the  soda. 

Klejner  (pronounced  Kleiner) 

These  are  related  to  the  American  doughnut,  being  fried  in 
deep  fat. 

3  Eggs  y2  CUP  Butter 

1  cup  Sugar  1  teaspoon  Cardamom 

1  teaspoon  Salt  2  teaspoons  Baking  Powder 

^4  cup  Cream  31/2  CUPS  Flour 

Blend  softened  butter  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  eggs  and 
cream.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  then  add  to 
first  mixture.  This  should  make  a  soft  dough,  yet  stiff  enough  to 
roll.  Roll  out  to  about  l/^  inch  thickness  and  cut  into  diamond 
shapes.  Make  a  slit  in  the  center  and  pull  one  point  through  the 
slit.  Cook  in  deep  fat  until  brown.  Danes  like  to  use  a  long  knitting 
needle  to  turn  these  and  to  lift  them  from  the  fat.  A  special  cutter 
for  cutting  these  can  be  purchased  in  many  stores,  called  a  Klejner 
Cutter  or  a  Fattigman  Cutter. 


Kringle  (This  is  pronounced  Kringleh) 

1  cup  soft  Butter  3^  cups  Flour 

1  cake  Yeast  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  Egg  1  cup  Raisins 

1  cup  Milk  1  teaspoon  Cardamom 

%  cup  Sugar 

Make  the  filling  for  this  and  let  it  be  cooling  while  the  rest 
of  the  recipe  is  mixed. 

FILLING:  Bring  the  raisins  to  boil  in  1  cup  of  water.  Drain 
off  the  water  and  add  y^  cup  butter  to  the  puffed  fruit.  Add  1 
teaspoon  cardamom  and  cool. 

Soften  yeast  cake  in  1/4  CUP  °f  tne  milk  tnat  nas  been  heated 
to  lukewarm.  Blend  %  cup  butter  and  1/2  cup  flour  as  you  would 
for  pie  crust;  set  this  aside.  Beat  1  egg  and  add  ^4  cup  sugar  and 
%  cup  milk  and  salt.  Mix  in  3  cups  of  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended.  Put  onto  floured  board  and  roll  to  1/2  inch  thickness.  Pat 
the  flour  and  butter  mixture  over  this,  then  fold  and  refold  three 
times.  Roll  thin.  Repeat  this  process  four  times.  Chill  for  30 
minutes,  then  roll  out  again  to  about  10"  x  25"  size.  Spread  with 
the  raisin  mixture  and  roll  up  as  for  a  jelly  roll,  being  sure  the 
edges  are  pinched  tightly  together  to  seal.  Place  on  a  flat  pan  and 
blend  into  a  pretzel  shape.  Press  flat  to  about  l/2  mcn  thickness. 
Brush  with  egg  or  cream  and  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  sugar 
and  ground  almonds.  Cover  with  a  damp  cloth  and  let  rise  in  a 
warm  place  for  20  minutes.  Bake  until  brown  at  350°. 


Butterdejg  (Rich  Butter  Pastry) 

This  is  the  basic  recipe  for  many  of  the  favorite  Danish 
Pastries. 

5  cups  Flour  1  cup  ice  water 

\l/2  pounds  butter  !!/£>  teaspoons  vinegar 

Pour  the  vinegar  into  the  water  and  set  in  the  refrigerator 
to  chill  while  you  are  working  the  butter  and  mixing  the  flour  and 
butter.  Blend  half  the  butter  with  the  flour,  as  you  would  for  pie 
crust.  Mix  it  until  it  is  crumbly  and  meal-like,  then  add  the  liquid. 
Stir  as  little  as  possible  to  mix  thoroughly.  Set  this  dough  aside 
for  1/2  hour.  Knead  the  other  half  of  the  butter  until  it  is  soft  and 
cream  like;  drain  off  any  water  that  works  out.  Roll  out  the  dough 
to  1/2  inch  thickness.  Spread  with  the  butter,  fold  it  over,  cover 
with  a  cloth  and  let  it  rest  for  30  minutes.  Keep  rolling  and  refolding 


and  resting  until  not  a  particle  of  the  butter  can  be  seen — this  may 
take  as  many  as  six  rollings.  Place  in  refrigerator  or  cool  place 
when  it  is  resting. 

Here  are  a  few  uses  for  this  dough: 

Napoleons  (Kager) 

Cut  dough  into  3  inch  wide  strips,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake 
at  400°  until  slightly  brown.  Cool  and  cover  one  layer  with  tart  red 
jelly;  lay  another  layer  on  top  and  frost  with  a  mixture  of  powdered 
sugar  and  water.  These  may  also  be  served  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream. 

French  Waffles 

Roll   dough  to  pie  crust  thinness   and   cut   into   oval  shapes. 

Prick  each  with  a  fork,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  until  slightly 

brown  in  400°  oven.  Put  two  pieces  together  with  jelly  or  jam 
or  whipped  cream.  Serve  quickly. 

Fruit  Tarts 

Prunes,  apple  sauce  or  apricot  jam  is  best  for  this.  Lay  a 
square  of  the  dough  to  fit  into  a  shallow  pan.  Prick  with  a  fork 
and  spread  with  fruit  nearly  to  the  edge.  Cover  with  latticed  strips 
of  the  dough  and  bake  at  375°.  Cut  into  small  squares  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Pretzels 

Roll  out  dough  to  the  thickness  of  pie  crust.  Cut  into  iy2  inch 
wide  strips  and  into  4  inch  lengths.  Bend  into  pretzel  shape. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  (slivered  almonds  are  a  nice  addition)  and 
bake  at  400°. 

This  dough  may  also  be  used  for  patty  shells  for  creamed 
chicken  or  creamed  fish.  Cut  in  circles  and  fit  into  muffin  tins. 
Bake  at  400°. 


Three  Danish  Cookies 


Danish  Cookies  and  Danish  Pastry  are  probably  the  most  fa- 
miliar of  all  cooking  that  has  come  out  of  Denmark.  Most  of  the 
cookies  in  the  following  recipes  are  improved  with  age.  You  can 
safely  bake  your  Christmas  cookies  right  after  Thanksgiving  and 
know  that  they  will  be  at  their  best  during  the  holidays.  They 
should  be  stored  in  air-tight  cans  or  jars. 

For  an  extra  crisp  cookie,  add  1  teaspoon  of  carbonated  am- 
monia (a  powder  which  you  can  probably  buy  at  your  local  drug 
store;  it  is  a  grocery  store  product  in  Denmark). 


Mor's  Sur  F10de  Kager 
(Mother's  Sour  Cream  Cookies) 

2  cups  Sugar  1  cup  Sour  Cream 

1  cup  Butter  1  teaspoon  Soda 

2  Eggs,  beaten  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and  then  add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough — just  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Cut  with  a  cookie 
cutter  and  sprinkle  the  top  of  each  cookie  with  sugar  before  baking. 
Makes  7  dozen  cookies.  Undiluted  canned  milk  may  be  substituted 
for  the  sour  cream,  using  only  1/2  cup. 


Brunkager  (Brown  Cookies) 

1  cup  Butter  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  cup  Brown  Sugar  !/£>  teaspoon  Allspice 

1  cup  Molasses  1  teaspoon  carbonated 

1  teaspoon  Cardamom  Ammonia 

41/£  cups  Flour  ll/£>  teaspoon  Orange 

1/4  teaspoon  Cloves  Rind,  grated 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  spices  together.  Bring  butter,  sugar  and 
molasses  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  the  heat  and  stir  in  the  other  in- 
gredients. Mix  thoroughly  and  set  aside  to  cool.  As  soon  as  it  can 
be  handled,  shape  into  long  narrow  rolls  and  store  in  the  refriger- 
ator for  several  days — this  is  better  the  longer  it  stands,  up  to  three 
or  four  weeks.  Slice  very  thinly  and  bake  at  375°;  they  burn 
easily.  Store  in  tightly  covered  tins. 


Kraemmerhuse  (Cones) 

1  cup  Butter  %  cup  Cornstarch  or 

1  cup  Sugar  Potato  Flour 

1  cup  Flour  6  Egg  Whites 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  flour.  Fold  in  the 
egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  until  they  stand  in  stiff  peaks. 
This  dough  may  be  baked  either  of  two  ways:  Spread  it  thinly  on 
a  flat  pan,  bake  until  brown  at  375° ;  cut  into  squares  immediately 
and  while  it  is  still  warm  roll  each  square  into  a  cone  shape  before 
it  becomes  crisp.  Or:  drop  by  spoonsful  on  a  cookie  sheet,  allowing 

10 


room  for  it  to  spread  real  thin,  bake  until  brown  at  375°  and  roll 
each  into  a  cone  shape  while  still  warm.  Serve  filled  with  whipped 
cream  or  soft  ice  cream.  These  must  be  eaten  fresh  as  they  do  not 
store  well. 


Krumkager  (Crumb  Cookies) 

4  Eggs  14  CUP  Cream 

1  cup  Sugar  1  cup  Flour 

1/2  cup  Butter  1  cup  Potato  Flour 
1/2  teaspoon  Salt 

Beat  all  ingredients  together  in  order  given  above  and  drop 
by  teaspoonsful  onto  a  heated  Krum-Kage  iron.  Do  not  have  the 
iron  too  hot.  Bake  on  top  of  the  stove,  first  on  one  side,  then  on 
the  other.  Remove  from  iron  and  roll  into  cone  shape.  Cool  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard.  These  should  be  eaten  while 
fresh  as  they  do  not  store  well. 


Nisse  Kranse  (Elf  Wreaths) 

114  cups  Butter  14  teaspoon  Salt 

3~L/2  cups  Flour  1  teaspoon  Vanilla  or 

6  hard  boiled  Egg  Yolks  Almond  Extract 

Cream  butter.  Add  flavoring  and  egg  yolks,  mix  well.  Sift 
flour  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed  mixture.  Force  through 
cookie  press,  using  round  opening;  cut  into  strips  and  form  into 
wreaths.  Slightly  flatten  each  wreath  and  sprinkle  with  colored 
sugar.  Bake  at  375°. 


Sukker  Smaakager  (Small  Sugar  Cookies) 

2  cups  Butter  3  Eggs,  beaten 

21/2  cups  sugar  4  cups  Flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly;  add  all  but  two  table- 
spoons of  the  beaten  eggs  (this  is  reserved  for  brushing  on  the 
tops  of  the  cookies  before  baking) .  Add  flour.  Roll  dough  very 
thin  and  cut  into  small  cookies.  Brush  top  of  each  with  beaten 
egg.  Bake  at  375°. 

11 


Makroner  (Macaroons) 

\l/2  cups  powdered  Sugar          1  cup  Almond  Paste 
11/2  teaspoons  Bak.  Pwdr.          4  Egg  Whites 

Sift  the  baking  powder  and  the  powdered  sugar  together  three 
times,  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  With  a  wooden  spoon  work  this  into 
the  almond  paste.  Last  fold  in  the  egg  whites  that  have  been  beaten 
until  they  stand  in  stiff  peaks.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  onto  a  greased 
baking  sheet.  Bake  very  slowly  at  275°. 


Kokoskager  (Cocoanut  Cookies) 

1  cup  Butter  1  teaspoon  Vanilla 

1  cup  Sugar  y^  teaspoon  Almond 

2  Eggs,  beaten  light  Extract 

21,4  cups  Flour  l/2  teaspoon  Salt 

2  teaspoons  Baking  Powder 
1   cup   Cocoanut,   ground 
in  food  grinder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  flavoring. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add  to  creamed 
mixture,  at  the  same  time  add  the  ground  cocoanut.  Mix  well. 
Force  through  a  cookie  press  using  the  flat  opening;  cut  off  at  3 
inch  lengths.  Bake  at  375°. 


11/2  cups  Sugar  1  teaspoon  carbonated 
11/2  cups  Butter  Ammonia 

1  Egg  y^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  teaspoon  Vanilla  5  cups  Flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  beaten  egg  and  vanilla. 
Sift  ammonia,  pepper  and  flour  together  and  add  to  creamed  mix- 
ture. Roll  into  long  l^  inch  rolls  and  cut  off  1/2  inch  pieces.  Bake 
on  a  greased  baking  sheet  at  325°.  The  tops  of  the  small  pieces 
may  be  dipped  in  colored  sugar  for  a  gay  touch  at  holiday  time. 
Will  keep  for  months  in  an  airtight  jar. 

12 


Dansk  Sprits 

1  cup  Butter  1/2  teaspoon  Salt 

1  cup  Sugar  1/2  teaspoon  each  Vanilla 
3  Egg  Yolks  and  Almond  Extract 

3  cups  Flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  and  beat  well.  Mix  in 
other  ingredients.  Force  through  a  cookie  press,  using  assorted 
shapes.  Bake  until  slightly  brown  at  350°. 


Mandel  Kranse  (Almond  Rings) 

1  cup  Butter  1  cup  Potato  Flour 

1  cup  Sugar  1/2  teaspoon  carbonated 

2  Eggs  Ammonia 

2  teaspoons  Cream  1/2  cup  ground  Almonds 

2  cups  Flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  then  the  cream.  Sift 
the  two  flours  with  the  ammonia;  add  the  almonds  and  knead  all 
together.  Force  through  a  cookie  press,  cut  into  21/2  inch  lengths 
and  shape  into  circles.  Bake  at  375°. 


13 


Danish  Children  Dancing.   Better  have  some   goodies   ready. 


(Takes 


When  a  Danish  cook  speaks  of  baking  a  cake  she  does  not 
have  in  mind  the  two  inch  thick  layers  nor  the  piled  high  frosting 
that  an  American  cook  thinks  of.  Her  cakes  are  baked  in  four  or 
five  or  six  thin  layers  and  these  are  put  together  with  a  variety  of 
jams  and  jellies  and  custards  (often  a  layer  of  each)  and  then 
topped  with  whipped  cream. 


14 


Dansk  Lagkage  (Danish  Layer  Cake) 

1  cup  Butter  2  cups  Flour 

1/2  cup  Sugar  2  teasp.  Baking  Powder 

Pinch  of  Salt  1  teaspoon  Vanilla 

2  Eggs  1/2  CUP  Milk 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together  until  it  has  the  consistency 
of  whipped  cream.  Beat  eggs  and  add  vanilla  and  milk  to  them. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  3  times.  Add  to  the 
creamed  butter-sugar  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk-egg  mix- 
ture. Bake  in  5  layers  at  375°  until  brown.  Fill  layers  alternately 
with  jelly  and  custard;  top  with  whipped  cream. 


Mor's  Sur  F10de  Kage 
(Mother's  Sour  Cream  Cake) 

2  Eggs  11/2  cups  Sifted  Flour 

1  cup  Sugar  1  teaspoon  each,  Cinna- 

1  cup  thick  Sour  Cream  mon,  nutmeg  and  soda 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1/2  teaspoon  Cloves 

Beat  the  eggs  until  thick  and  light  colored.  Beat  in  the  sugar. 
Add  sour  cream  and  molasses  and  mix  well.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Bake  in  four  layers.  Put  together 
with  raisin  filling. 


Raisin  Filling 

2  cups  Sugar  1  cup  Seeded  Raisins 

1  cup  Water  2  Egg  Whites 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  chopped  raisins  until  a  little  dropped 
into  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites  and  stir  until  cool  enough  to  spread.  Some  cooks  like  to 
alternate  this  filling  with  layers  of  plum  jam.  Use  the  raisin  filling 
for  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake,  or  whipped  cream  may  be  used 
for  the  top. 

15 


Lise's  Sponge  Cake 

2  Eggs  2  teasp.  Baking  Powder 

1  cup  Sugar  1/2  cup  hot  Milk 

1  cup  sifted  Cake  Flour        Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut 

Beat  the  eggs  light  with  a  rotary  egg  beater.  Add  sugar  slowly, 
beating  continuously.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and 
stir  into  the  egg  mixture.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  hot  milk  and  pour 
over  the  first  mixture.  Beat  well.  Bake  in  3  layers  at  375°.  Fill 
with  custard  and  jelly.  Cover  top  with  whipped  cream. 


16 


pancakes 


Tynde  Pandekager  (Thin  Pancakes) 

These  pancakes  are  baked  one  at  a  time,  a  thin  layer  of  batter 
covering  the  whole  pan,  then  buttered,  spread  with  jelly  or  pow- 
dered sugar  or  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  rolled.  They  are  served 
lying  side  by  side  on  a  long  platter. 

4  Eggs,  separated  1/2  teaspoon  Salt 

2  tablespoons  Sugar  2  tablespoons  Melted  Butter 

21/4  cups  Milk  Dash  of  Cardamom 

1^4  cups  Flour 

Beat  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  salt  together;  add  the  flour  and 
milk  alternately;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  This  is 
a  very  thin  batter.  Have  the  skillet  or  griddle  slightly  greased  and 
hot.  Pour  barely  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom,  tip  and  swirl 
the  pan  to  help  spread  the  batter  and  to  keep  the  layer  thin.  Turn 
as  for  hot  cakes. 


^Ebleskiver  (Pancake  Balls) 

These  are  delicious  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  Sunday  night 
supper.  Try  feeding  them  to  a  gang  just  home  from  a  football  game. 
A  special  pan,  called  an  ^Ebleskiver  Pan  or  Monk's  Pan  or  Danish 
Cake  Pan  is  needed  for  frying  them.  See  photo  on  next  page  for 
illustration  of  this  pan. 

2  cups  Buttermilk 

2  cups  Flour 

2  Eggs  2  tablespoons  Sugar 

2  teasp.  Baking  Powder         4  tablespoons  Melted  Butter 

Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  whites  stiff.  Mix  all  the  other 
ingredients  together  at  one  time  and  beat  until  smooth.  Fold  in 
the  egg  whites  last.  Put  about  a  tablespoonful  of  vegetable  oil  or 
shortening  in  the  bottom  of  each  ^Ebleskiver  Pan  cup  and  have  hot. 
Pour  in  about  2  tablespoonsful  of  the  batter  into  each  cup  and  as 
soon  as  they  get  bubbly  around  the  edge,  turn  quickly  —  Danish 
cooks  like  to  use  a  long  knitting  needle  for  this  but  a  fork  will 
work  very  well.  Continue  cooking,  turning  the  ball  to  keep  it 
from  burning,  until  a  straw  or  the  knitting  needle  comes  out  clean 
when  stuck  in  the  center.  Serve  while  hot  with  syrup  or  jam  or 
powdered  sugar. 

17 


Cooking  JEbleskiver  in  the  street  of  Solvang  on  Danish  Days. 

Rosettes 

These  require  a  Rosette  iron  for  frying  in  deep  fat. 


2  Eggs,  plus  1  Egg  Yolk 
1/3  cup  Sugar 
1  cup  Flour 


%  cup  heavy  Cream 
Pinch  of  Salt 


Beat  eggs  and  cream  together.  Add  sugar  and  flour  and  stir 
until  smooth.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  2  hours.  Put  the  Rosette 
iron  in  the  deep  fat  while  both  are  still  cold.  Heat  to  375°.  Remove 
iron  and  while  it  is  still  very  hot,  dip  it  into  the  batter.  Hold  the 
batter  coated  iron  above  the  batter  for  just  a  moment  before 
returning  it  to  the  hot  fat — this  will  help  prevent  the  Rosette  from 
slipping  off  the  iron  as  it  cooks.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Remove 
from  the  fat,  slip  the  Rosette  from  the  iron  and  drain  it  on  a  paper 
towel.  Heat  the  iron  again  before  dipping  it  into  the  batter.  After 
Rosettes  are  slightly  cool,  sprinkle  them  with  powdered  sugar.  They 
are  delicious  with  afternoon  coffee. 

18 


ttfeats 


Roast  Duck 


Prepare  duck,  leaving  it  whole.  Stuff  with  equal  parts  of 
peeled  apple  and  seeded  prunes.  Rub  salt  into  all  sides  of  the 
duck.  Cook  at  225°  for  4  hours.  Serve  with  small  potatoes  that 
have  been  browned  in  sugar  and  butter  (see  recipe  under  vege- 
tables) and  red  cabbage. 

Finker 

1  pound  liver  1  large  Onion,  sliced 

(beef,  pork  or  lamb)          1  large  Apple 
1/2  Beef  Heart  peeled  and  sliced 

2  Pigs'  Hearts  or  1  tablespoon  Salt 

1/2  Veal  Heart  1/2  teaspoon  each 

2  pounds  Pork  Pepper  and  Allspice 

or  a  Pig's  Head  14  teaspoon  Cloves 

Wash  liver  and  heart  thoroughly  in  water  to  which  a  little 
vinegar  has  been  added.  Trim  away  all  undesirable  looking  parts 
or  tough  pieces — if  a  pig "s  head  is  used  this  applies  especially  to 
it.  Place  all  the  ingredients  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  water 
and  cook  for  S1/^  hours.  Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  put 
through  the  coarse  knife  of  a  meat  grinder.  Add  enough  of  the 
broth  to  make  the  consistency  of  a  soft  mush.  If  you  have  used 
pork  bones  while  cooking  this  there  will  be  enough  gelatin  to  con- 
geal it  as  it  cools;  if  all  meat  was  used,  reheat  the  mixture  and 
thicken  it  with  4  tablespoons  of  flour  that  has  been  mixed  with 
cooled  broth.  Pour  into  an  oblong  pan  and  set  in  refrigerator  for 
several  hours  before  using.  This  is  delicious  in  sandwiches  or  as 
a  cold  luncheon  meat. 


Biksemad  (Hash) 

2  cups  left-over  meat,  3  cups  raw  Potatoes, 

ground  ground 

2  large  Onions,  ground  Salt,  Pepper,  l/£  Bay  Leaf 

Mix  all  together.  Melt  3  tablespoons  shortening  or  drippings 
in  a  heavy  skillet  and  add  the  hash  mixture.  Cover  and  cook  slowly 
for  30-40  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  with  a  poached  egg 
on  each  portion. 

19 


This  is  one  of  the  many  Smfirgaasbord  Specialties  served 
by  the  Danish  Inn,  Solvang,  California 


Frikadeller 
(Danish  Meat  Balls) 


1/2  pound  Beef 
1/2  pound  Pork 
2  cups  Milk 
2  Eggs 


1   chopped  Onion 

1  cup  Flour 

Salt  and  Pepper  to  taste 


Grind  meat  3  or  4  times  through  grinder.  Add  eggs,  onion, 
pepper  and  flour.  Then  milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Let  stand  for  3  hours.  Before  frying,  put  in  salt.  Brown  in  lard. 
Drop  from  large  tablespoon  into  frying  pan  turning  so  they  get 
brown  all  over.  When  the  frikadeller  have  browned,  remove  them 
to  a  warm  dish  and  make  a  gravy  in  the  same  pan.  Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  frikadeller  and  serve. 


20 


Flaeskesteg  (Roast  Pork) 

4  or  5  pounds  fresh  Ham  Whole  Cloves 

or  shoulder  of  Pork  Onion  Powder 

Salt  and  Pepper 

Leave  rind  on  the  roast  but  slit  it  at  1  inch  spaces.  In  these 
slits  stick  the  whole  peppers  and  about  5  whole  cloves.  Sprinkle 
well  with  onion  powder  and  salt,  rubbing  it  in  on  all  sides  of  the 
meat.  Place  in  cold  oven  and  set  heat  at  225°.  Roast  for  at  least 
5  hours.  Serve  with  small  potatoes,  heated  in  butter  and  sugar 
(see  recipe  under  vegetables)  and  red  cabbage. 


Mock  Chicken 

3  Veal  Shanks  1  Onion 

2  Pork  Shanks  1   teaspoon  Salt 

4  hard  boiled  Eggs  y^  teaspoon  Cloves 
2  cups  Broth  1/2  teaspoon  Pepper 
4  slices  very  dry  bread, 

ground 

Cook  the  shanks,  onions  and  seasoning  together  until  the  meat 
will  slip  off  the  bones;  use  just  enough  water  to  furnish  2  cups 
of  broth  when  it  is  finished.  Grind  meats  together.  Add  chopped 
eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Pour  into  oblong  pan  and  chill.  Makes 
excellent  sandwiches  or  cold  luncheon  meat. 


Hvidkaalsrouletter  (Cabbage  Rolls) 

1  large  Cabbage  1  Egg 

1  pound  Ground  Beef  y2  cup  ground  dry 

1/2  pound  ground  Pork  Bread  Crumbs 

1  large  Onion  1   cup  Milk 

3  tablespoons  Flour 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  cabbage,  together.  Drop  the  head 
of  cabbage  into  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  just  long  enough 
to  wilt  the  leaves.  Remove  each  leaf  separately  and  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  meat  mixture  in  the  center  of  it.  Roll  and  fasten 
with  a  tooth  pick  or  tie  with  a  string.  Brown  in  hot  butter,  then 
add  just  enough  water  to  simmer  for  30  minutes.  Thicken  broth 
in  the  pan  and  pour  over  the  rolls  to  serve.  An  American  flavoring, 
called  Kitchen  Bouquet,  adds  a  wonderful  touch  to  the  gravy. 

21 


Leverpostej  (Liver  Paste) 

iy2  pounds  Liver  1  teaspoon  Pepper 

1  large  Onion  1  tablespoon  Salt 
%  cup  Milk  !,4  teaspoon  each, 
%  cup  Cream  Cloves,  Allspice 
3  tablespoons  Flour  6  slices  Bacon 

2  Eggs 

Put  the  liver,  4  slices  of  bacon  and  onion  through  the  meat 
grinder  4  or  5  times;  the  mixture  should  be  as  smooth  as  paste. 
Make  sauce  of  the  cream,  milk,  flour  and  seasonings.  When  it 
has  thickened  and  is  still  hot  stir  it  into  the  beaten  eggs.  Cool. 
Mix  with  the  meat  mixture.  Grease  a  loaf  pan  and  pour  this  "bat- 
ter" into  it.  Lay  the  last  2  slices  of  bacon  across  the  top  of  it.  Set 
the  pan  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  for  ll/^  hours  at  325°. 
Cool  and  store  in  refrigerator.  This  is  a  delicious  sandwich  spread. 


Sylte  (Head  Cheese) 

1  Pig's  Head  or  1  Bay  Leaf 

6  Pork  Shanks  and  y±  teaspoon  Cloves 

3  Veal  Shanks  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  small  Onion  1  tablespoon  Sugar 

2  cups  Broth  Pickles  and  Lemon  slices 
2  tablespoons  Vinegar  (optional) 

Cook  shanks  or  cleaned  head  in  water  to  cover,  together  with 
all  the  other  ingredients  until  the  meat  drops  off  the  bone,  having 
at  least  2  cups  broth  left.  Grind  the  meat.  Mix  the  ground  meat 
and  the  broth,  in  which  the  sugar  and  vinegar  have  been  mixed, 
and  pour  into  an  oblong  pan  to  chill.  Cut  in  thin  slices  to  serve. 
If  the  pickles  or  lemon  are  used,  arrange  them  in  a  pattern  on  top 
of  the  loaf  after  it  has  cooled  but  before  it  has  congealed. 


Frikadeller  (Danish  Meat  Balls) 

ll/£  pounds  lean  Beef  *4  teaspoon  Cloves 

l/£  pound  Pork  !/£  teaspoon  Pepper 

1  Onion  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  cup  very  dry  Bread  2  Eggs 

Crumbs  2  cups  Milk 
4  tablespoons  Flour 

Put  the  meat  and  onion  through  the  meat  grinder  at  least  4 
times.  Add  the  flour  and  the  other  seasonings.  Mix  the  bread 
crumbs  and  the  milk  together  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  then  add 

22 


to  other  mixture.  This  may  be  used  at  once  but  is  much  better  if 
let  stand  for  several  hours  before  using.  Have  a  heavy  pan  heated 
with  melted  shortening  in  it.  Drop  the  meat  mixture  into  this  in 
tablespoon  amounts,  form  it  into  oblong  rolls  with  the  back  of 
the  spoon.  Cook  slowly  and  turn  it  on  all  sides  to  keep  the  roll 
shape.  When  the  frikadeller  have  browned  slightly  remove  them  to 
warm  dish  and  make  a  gravy  in  the  same  pan  by  adding  2  cups 
of  water  and  2  bouillon  cubes,  thickened  with  2  tablespoons  flour. 
Pour  the  gravy  over  the  frikadeller  and  serve. 


Chicken  in  Asparagus 


1  large  Stewing  Hen  2  Egg  Yolks 

1  Onion  3  tablespoons  Flour 

1  pound  Asparagus  or  1  teaspoon  Salt 

1  can  Asparagus  1  teaspoon  White  Pepper 

Cut  chicken  into  serving  size  pieces.  Dice  onion.  Put  both 
these  with  salt  and  pepper  into  a  large  kettle  and  add  four  cups 
water.  Cook  slowly  until  chicken  is  tender,  about  3  hours.  Cook 
fresh  asparagus,  either  cut  up  or  whole,  in  salted  water  for  about 
20  minutes.  Remove  the  chicken  to  a  large,  warm  bowl  or  platter; 
lay  the  asparagus  on  top  of  it.  Add  1  cup  of  asparagus  water  to 
the  chicken  broth  and  thicken  with  flour  for  a  sauce.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Pour  over  the  chicken  and 
asparagus  and  serve  at  once.  Lamb  may  be  substituted  for  the 
chicken  in  this  recipe.  If  canned  asparagus  is  used,  heat  it  in  its 
own  liquid  then  drain  the  liquid  into  the  chicken  broth. 


Hakkeb0f  med  L0g 
(Chopped  Beef  with  Onions) 


2  pounds  beef  2  large  Onions 

Have  the  butcher  put  the  meat  through  the  grinder  once  only. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  shape  into  large  patties.  Brown 
in  hot  fat  in  skillet.  Remove  to  a  warm  place.  Slice  onions  into 
the  same  pan,  stirring  often  to  keep  them  from  becoming  too 
brown.  When  onions  are  tender  add  about  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
stirring  it  well  into  the  fat.  Add  enough  water,  a  little  at  a  time, 
to  make  a  gravy.  Pour  this  onion-gravy  mixture  over  the  meat 
and  serve.  Serve  with  boiled  potatoes,  garnished  with  parsley, 
and  red  cabbage  (recipe  under  vegetables). 

23 


Boiler  I  Seller! 
(Celery  Root  with  Meat  Balls) 


1  large  Celery  Root  Pinch  of  Cloves 

1  pound  lean  Beef  1  cup  Water 

1  Onion,  ground  3  tablespoons  Flour 

1  Egg 

1  teaspoon  each  Salt, 
Pepper  and  Sage 

Peel  the  celery  root  and  cut  it  into  large  chunks.  Boil  in  salted 
water  until  tender.  Remove  from  the  water  to  a  warm  place.  Mix 
the  meat  and  seasonings  well  and  add  the  egg.  Mix  well.  Add  the 
flour.  Last  add  the  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  mixing  it  thoroughly 
until  all  the  water  is  absorbed  with  each  addition.  Form  into 
small  balls  and  drop  into  the  celery  broth.  Cook  about  a  half 
hour.  Serve  on  platter,  placed  around  the  celery  chunks.  Thicken 
the  broth  for  gravy  and  pour  over  all  on  the  platter. 


2  sides  either  Veal  1  teaspoon  Onion  Powder 

or  Lamb  Breast  l/£  teaspoon  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  minced  l/±  teaspoon  each  Cloves 
Parsley  and  Allspice 

1  tablespoon  Salt 

Remove  all  the  bones  and  sinew  from  the  meat  and  spread 
into  a  flat,  square  shape;  sew  pieces  together  if  necessary.  Sprinkle 
the  whole  surface  with  the  seasonings.  Roll  very  tightly,  as  for  a 
jelly  roll  and  wrap  with  strong  twine  to  hold  it.  Use  meat  skewers 
to  help  hold  it  while  wrapping.  Make  a  brine  as  follows: 

Dissolve  1  cup  salt,  !/£>  teaspoon  saltpeter,  l/^  cup  sugar, 
in  2  quarts  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly  cool,  place  the  meat 
in  it  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  five  days.  Brine  must  cover 
the  meat.  Remove  the  meat,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  slowly  for  21/£  hours.  Remove  from  the  stock  and  place 
between  two  flat  surfaces  and  weight  with  an  iron  on  top  until 
cold.  Slice  very  thin  for  open  face  sandwiches.  The  broth  in  which 
the  meat  was  cooked  makes  an  excellent  basic  soup  stock  for 
vegetable  soup  or  cabbage  soup. 

24 


Medisterp01se  (Pork  Sausage) 


5  pounds  Pork  ^  teaspoon  each 
1  large  Onion  Allspice  and  Cloves 

1  tablespoon  Salt  1  can  Bouillon  or 
1  teaspoon  each  1  cup  basic  Soup  Stock 

Pepper  and  Cardamom 

Grind  the  pork  4  times,  add  the  seasoning  and  mix  well.  Add 
the  stock  or  bouillon  a  little  at  a  time  so  it  is  all  absorbed.  Fill 
into  small  casing  lightly  ...  do  not  pack  it.  Lamb  or  pork 
casings  are  best  and  can  be  bought  at  your  butcher's. 

To  cook,  bring  the  sausages  to  a  boil  in  water  to  cover  them. 
Then  quickly  remove  and  brown  on  all  sides  in  a  hot  skillet.  The 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  should  be  thickened  for  a  gravy, 
adding  2  tablespoons  prepared  horseradish. 

This  sausage  may  be  kept  for  an  indefinite  length  of  time  by 
simmering  for  20  minutes  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover;  then 
removing  to  a  stone  crock.  Add  %  cup  vinegar  and  4  tablespoons 
salt  to  the  broth,  bring  it  to  a  boil  and  pour  this  over  the  sausage 
in  the  crock.  Have  three  cups  of  lard  melted  and  pour  this  over  the 
sausage  and  stock.  Store  in  a  cool  place. 


Boiled  Dinner 


3-4  pounds  Beef  Brisket  Carrots 

Potatoes  Cabbage  or  Turnips 

Onions  Salt  and  Pepper 

Cut  up  onions  and  add  to  the  meat  which  has  been  covered 
with  cold  water.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  boil  for  4  or  5  hours,  or 
until  meat  is  very  tender.  In  separate  pan  cook  the  potatoes  and 
carrots  together  and  in  another  the  cabbage  or  turnips.  Serve  with 
meat  sliced  in  the  center  of  a  large  platter  and  the  vegetables 
arranged  around  it.  Thicken  the  broth  from  the  meat  with  flour  and 
serve  half  of  it  plain,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  the  other 
half  add  a  bottle  of  prepared  horseradish;  this  is  delicious  with 
the  boiled  meat. 

25 


Blod  P01se  (Blood  Sausage) 


l/2  teaspoon  Black  Pepper 
1  pound  lean  Pork,  ground 

2  cups  Flour  1  pound  pork  fat,  chopped 

1/2  CUP  Sugar  12  Apples,  peeled  and 

2  teaspoons  Salt  chopped  fine. 

1  teaspoon  Soda 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  adding  enough  more  flour 
to  make  a  batter  that  is  rather  thick  but  that  can  still  be  poured. 
Make  a  casing  of  white  cloth  cut  10  inches  long  and  5  inches  wide, 
sewed  across  one  end  and  up  the  side.  Pour  the  batter  into  this.  Tie 
the  end  closed  and  drop  into  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  for  2y2 
hours.  Cool,  remove  cloth  and  served  sliced  for  Sm0rrebr0d  or  slice 
and  fry  in  butter  for  a  delicious  supper  dish. 


26 


Real  Danes  with  real  Danish  appetites. 


Kogt  Fisk  (Boiled  Fish) 

Boiling  is  a  favorite  way  of  preparing  and  serving  fish  in 
Denmark.  Usually  only  large  fish  are  cooked  in  this  way  but  slices 
of  large  fish,  such  as  salmon,  pike,  halibut  or  carp  are  also  excel- 
lent. You  should  have  a  rack  with  two  handles  so  the  fish  can 
be  lifted  out  of  the  water  without  breaking  it.  However,  a  cloth 
tied  around  the  fish  before  it  is  cooked  is  quite  satisfactory. 

Wash  the  fish  through  several  waters  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes.  Lay  it  on  the  rack,  or  tie  it  in  the  cloth, 
and  drop  it  into  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  salt  and  2 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Bring  it  to  a  quick  boil;  then  simmer  slowly 

27 


until  done;  it  can  be  tested  with  a  straw  or  toothpick  for  tender- 
ness. Serve  with  lemon  sauce  (see  under  "Sauces")  and  parsley 
potatoes. 


Fiskrouletter  (Fish  Patties) 


A  good  way  to  use  left-over  boiled  fish,  canned  salmon  or 
salted  codfish.  Also  a  use  for  cold,  boiled,  mashed  potatoes. 

4  large  Potatoes,  mashed         2  cups  Cold  Fish, 

with  Milk  and  Butter,  chopped  into  small   bits 

cooled  2  Eggs 

Salt  and  Pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  form  into  small  round  balls. 
Roll  in  dry  bread  crumbs  or  flour  and  fry  until  brown  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  mustard  sauce  (See  under  "Sauces"). 


Spegesild  med  L0gsauce 
(Herring  with  Onion  Sauce) 


Clean  and  bone  a  salt  herring.  Soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Cut  into  bite  size  chunks  and  cook  in  boiling  water  for  20  minutes. 
Make  a  white  sauce  to  which  has  been  added  2  boiled,  chopped 
onions.  Pour  over  the  cooked  herring.  Serve  with  boiled  potatoes 
garnished  with  chopped  parsley. 


Fiskefars  (Fish  Force  Meat) 


2  cups  ground  cooked  Fish  3  tablespoons  Butter 

4  tablespoons  Potato  ll/£>  cups  Milk 

Flour  (or  2  tablespoons  1  Egg 

White  Flour  and  2  Salt  and  Pepper 
tablespoons  Cornstarch) 

Melt  the  butter  and  mix  into  the  fish.  Add  flour  and  other 
seasonings  and  stir  until  all  the  fish  is  covered  with  it.  Mix  until 
it  is  smooth.  Add  the  beaten  egg.  Stir  in  the  milk  slowly.  It  should 
be  firm  enough  to  form  into  patties;  add  a  little  more  flour  if 
necessary.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown  on  both  sides.  This  mixture 
is  also  the  basis  for  the  two  following  recipes. 

28 


Fiskebudding  (Fish  Pudding) 

Usei  the  above  recipe  for  Forcemeat  and  place  in  a  buttered 
mold  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  325°  oven  for  one  hour. 
Serve  with  lemon  sauce  or  mushroom  sauce.  (See  under  "Sauces.") 

Fiskefars  for  Sm0rgaasb0rd 
(Forcemeat  for  Smorgaasbord) 

Use  recipe  for  Forcemeat  and  bake  in  a  buttered  mold  at 
325°  for  1  hour.  Cool.  Remove  from  mold  and  slice  in  thick  slices. 
Arrange  around  the  edges  of  a  large  platter.  Place  2  slices  of  hard 
boiled  egg  on  each  slice,  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  and  a  dash  of 
paprika.  Fill  center  of  platter  with  sliced  tomatoes,  garnished  with 
parsley. 

Torsk  i  Kasserolle  (Codfish  in  a  Casserole) 

3  cups  codfish  i/4  cup  Butter 

1  small  Onion,  minced  14  cup  White  Wine 

1  stalk  Celery,  minced  Pepper  and  Salt 

If  salt  codfish  is  used,  soak  it  over  night  in  cold  water.  Then 
remove  all  bones  and  pick  it  into  small  pieces.  If  fresh  fish  is  used, 
lay  it  in  slices  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  mold.  Next  a  layer  of 
onion,  celery  and  pepper;  if  fresh  fish  is  being  used,  sprinkle  it 
with  salt.  Dot  the  butter  over  the  top;  pour  on  the  wine.  Cover 
tightly  and  allow  to  steam  for  45  minutes.  This  may  be  cooked 
over  a  very  low  heat  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  in  a  325°  oven. 
Serve  with  lemon  butter  (See  "Sauces"). 


Baked  Fish 

This  is  a  good  recipe  for  large  bony  fish  as  the  bones  are  so 
softened  in  cooking  that  they  may  be  eaten  like  canned  salmon. 
Best  type  to  use  is  Pike,  Pickerel,  Halibut,  large  Mackerel,  Salmon 
and  Rock  Cod. 

5  pounds  Fish  cut  into  !/£>  cup  Vinegar 

2-inch  slices  2  tablespoons   Catsup 

1  cup   melted   Butter  Salt  and  Pepper 

Place  fish  in  baking  pan  and  pour  all  the  other  ingredients 
over  it.  Bake  at  lowest  possible  temperature  (not  over  225°)  for 
7  hours.  Baste  with  juice  from  bottom  of  pan  occasionally.  This 

29 


may  be  canned  by  packing  the  jars  with  hot  fish,  filling  the  jar 
with  boiling  salted  water,  then  processing  it  in  a  pressure  cooker 
for  10  minutes. 


Fried  Fish 

For  a  large  fish  cut  into  1  inch  slices;  small  fish  may  be 
fried  whole.  Dip  each  piece  into  canned  milk  then  into  flour;  back 
into  the  canned  milk  and  then  into  cracker  crumbs.  Have  shortening 
very  hot  (about  1  inch  deep)  in  a  heavy  skillet.  Drop  the  fish  into 
this  and  fry  until  brown  and  crisp  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  repeat 
on  the  other  side.  Turn  only  once. 


Lax  i  Gele  (Salmon  Aspic) 

Boil  4  salmon  fillets  in  salt  water  to  which  has  been  added 
1/2  cup  vinegar  and  6  whole  pepper  corns.  Test  for  doneness  with  a 
straw  or  toothpick.  Soften  2  tablespoons  of  gelatin  in  14  cup  cold 
water  and  dissolve  in  1  cup  of  fish  broth.  Add  1  cup  water,  14 
teaspoon  salt  and  pour  over  the  cooked  fish.  Chill  until  firm. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  and  garnish  with  cucumber  in  vinegar 
(see  under  "vegetables"). 


30 


M-m-m-m-m  .      .  Good! 


Soup  is  a  favorite  food  with  Danes  and  will  be  found  on  the 
table  several  times  a  week  in  most  Danish  homes.  There  are  many 
variations  but  the  basic  broth  is  as  follows: 


31 


K0dsuppe  (Meat  Soup) 

1  Chicken  1  large  Onion 

1  large  Beef  Knuckle  4  Carrots 

2  Veal  Shanks  Parsley 
2  pounds  Shoulder  Clod,  Salt 

in  one  piece 

Any  one  of  the  meats  may  be  used  or  any  combination  of 
them.  Cover  the  meat  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  simmering 
boil.  Add  salt  and  continue  to  simmer  until  meat  is  tender  enough 
to  drop  off  the  bones.  Skim  often  as  good  Danish  soup  must  be 
very  clear.  Remove  meat  and  bones  and  strain  broth.  To  this  broth 
tiny  dumplings,  meat  balls  or  rice  are  added  just  before  serving. 
Keep  the  broth  hot  while  preparing  the  additions  you  are  going 
to  make  to  it.  Chopped  cooked  carrots  and  a  sprinkling  of  parsley 
are  added  last. 


Mel-Boiler  (Dumplings) 

l/r>cup  Butter  1  cup  boiling  Water 

1  cup  Flour  5  Eggs 

Melt  butter  in  a  kettle.  Add  flour  and  stir  well.  Gradually  add 
the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool  until  lukewarm.  Beat  in  eggs  one 
at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Drop  very  small  dump- 
lings (no  larger  than  an  almond)  from  the  end  of  a  spoon  into 
boiling  salted  water.  Cook  2  minutes  then  turn  each  one  and  cook 
one  minute  more.  Serve  these  in  a  large  soup  tureen  with  the  broth 
poured  over  them;  or  serve  in  individual  dishes. 


1  pound  lean  Beef  1  Egg 

ground  four  times  Salt  and  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  Flour 

Mix  thoroughly  and  form  into  marble  size  balls.  Drop  into 
boiling  salted  water  and  cook  three  or  four  minutes,  turning  each 
one  over  to  cook  through.  Place  several  in  each  soup  dish  and 
pour  the  hot  broth  over  them;  or  it  may  be  served  from  a  large 
tureen. 

32 


Rice 

1  cup  Rice  Salt 

4  cups  Water 

Cook  rice  in  salted  water  until  tender.  This  can  be  added  to 
the  broth  at  serving  time  and  stirred  in  or  it  can  be  molded  in 
individual  molds,  placed  in  the  soup  dish  and  the  broth  poured 
around  it. 


Gr0nkaalssuppe  (Green  Kale  Soup) 

3  pounds  Pork  Shank  1  large  Onion  or  3  Leeks, 

or  cut  up 

3  pounds  Veal  Shank  3  Potatoes,  cubed 

or  3  stalks  Celery,   cut 

Large  Ham  Bone  into  pieces 

2  quarts  Water  Several  Kale  leaves  (about 
1  teaspoon  Salt  1  large  stalk) 

3  Carrots,   cubed  2  tablespoons  Sugar 

Cover  the  meat  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  salt 
and  sugar.  Skim  several  times  during  the  first  hour  of  cooking. 
Cook  for  3  hours.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  kale, 
and  continue  boiling  for  another  hour.  Cook  the  kale  separately 
for  20  minutes.  Drain  and  chop  fine.  Add  to  the  other  soup  mix- 
ture just  before  serving. 


S0d  Suppe  (Fruit  Soup) 

This  soup  is  strange  to  the  American  taste  but  is  delicious  and 
is  often  served  at  holiday  time;  various  fruits  may  be  substituted 
for  those  called  for  in  the  recipe — peaches,  cherries,  rhubarb,  sat- 
suma  plums,  elderberries  or  chokeberries.  We  have  used  dried 
and  canned  fruits  in  this  recipe  but  fresh  fruits  are  excellent  in 
season. 

1  cup  Sugar  3  Peach  Halves 

\l/2  cups  Chopped  Prunes  l/£  cup  Dried  Apples, 

1/2  cup  Raisins  chopped 

1/2  CUP  Sago  1  stick    Cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  Salt  Juice  of  1/2  Orange  and 

14  cup  Currants  1/2  Lemon 

Bring  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  boil  and  add  all  ingredients. 
Simmer  for  11/2  hours.  If  it  thickens  too  much  add  more  water. 
Serve  with  hot  buttered  croutons. 

33 


(Z)llebr0d  Suppe  (Beer  Soup) 

This  is  another  soup  that  is  strange  to  Americans  but  no 
Danish  Cook  book  would  be  complete  without  it. 

8  slices  Pumpernickel  ^  cup  Sugar 

1  pint  Ale  or  Beer  2  teaspoons  Lemon  Juice 

Break  pumpernickel  into  small  pieces  and  cover  with  water. 
Let  stand  over  night.  Next  day  bring  it  to  boil  and  simmer  for  10 
minutes.  Put  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Reheat  and  add  sugar, 
beer  and  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot  topped  with  whipped  cream  or 
thick  sour  cream. 


Hvidkaalssuppe  (Cabbage  Soup) 

2  pounds  Meat — lamb  1  head  Cabbage 

Salt  Pork,  Ham  Bone,  4  Carrots,  diced 

Veal  Shank  or  Beef  4  Potatoes,  diced 

2  Onions  or  4  Leeks  Salt,  Pepper  to  taste 

Cover  meat  with  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender,  3  to  4 
hours.  Cut  up  cabbage  and  onions  and  cook  separately  until  tender. 
Cook  potatoes  and  carrots  together.  Add  all  the  cooked  vegetables 
to  the  broth  just  before  serving.  Small  meat  balls  are  delicious 
served  with  this  soup. 


Blomkaalssuppe  (Cauliflower  Soup) 

1  head  Cauliflower  1  tablespoon  Sugar 
4  cups  Basic  Soup  Stock                   3  Egg  Yolks 

„         or  2  cans  Clear  4  tablespoons  Flour 

Chicken  Soup  with  2  l/^  cup  Melted  Butter 

cups  Water  Salt  and  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  White  Wine 

Cut  up  the  cauliflower  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  and  chop 
very  fine.  Melt  butter  in  a  kettle  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Add  soup 
stock  and  wine  and  cook  until  slightly  thickened.  Pour  this  over 
the  beaten  egg  yolks  with  the  sugar  added.  Stir  in  the  cauliflower 
and  serve.  2  bunches  spinach,  or  2  packages  of  frozen  spinach  may 
be  substituted  for  the  cauliflower  for  a  delicious  Spinach  Soup. 

34 


Kasrnemaelks  Suppe  (Buttermilk  Soup) 

1   quart  Buttermilk  Juice  of  1  Lemon 

3  Eggs  1/2  teaspoon  Salt 

1/2  CUP  Sugar  2  tablespoons  Butter 

14  cup  Frozen  Orange  2  tablespoons  Flour 
Juice  concentrate 

Beat  eggs,  sugar,  and  orange  juice  together.  Heat  buttermilk 
to  boiling  and  thicken  with  the  flour  and  butter  which  have  been 
mixed  together.  Add  the  orange  juice  mixture  and  serve  hot.  Do 
not  overcook. 


Gule-^Erte  (Split  Pea  Soup) 

2  cups  Split  Peas  4  whole  Cloves 
1  large  Ham  Bone  1  Bay  Leaf 

3  quarts  Water  Salt,  Pepper  to  taste 
1  Onion 

Soak  peas  overnight,  then  cook  with  the  other  ingredients  for 
four  hours. 


35 


What's  Cookin'? 


Sauces  an6  (Bravies 


Danes  have  many  wonderful  sauces  that  are  served  over  their 
fish  and  meat.  For  a  boiled  dinner  or  with  soup  meat,  try  this: 


Peberrods  Sauce  (Horseradish  Sauce) 


2  tablespoons  Butter 
1  tablespoon  Flour 

1  cup  Milk 

2  tablespoons  Sugar 


3  tablespoons  prepared 

Horseradish 
Pinch  of  Salt 


Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Gradually 
add  the  milk  and  cook  until  thickened.  Stir  in  sugar,  salt  and 
horseradish.  Serve  hot. 

36 


Sur  F10de  Sauce  (Sour  Cream  Sauce) 

3  tablespoons  Bacon  1  Bouillon  cube  or 

or  other  drippings  !/£  cup  canned  Bouillon 

3  tablespoons  Flour  1   cup  Sour  Cream 

Pinch   of  Salt  Dash  of  Pepper 
l/£>  cup  Water 

Mix  flour  and  drippings  in  pan  over  low  heat  and  add  the 
bouillon  mixture.  Increase  heat  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Just 
before  serving,  stir  in  the  sour  cream.  This  is  delicious  poured 
over  cooked  cabbage. 


Sennep  Sauce  (Mustard  Sauce) 

3  tablespoons  Butter  iy2  cups  Soup  Stock 
3  tablespoons  Flour  or  Bouillon 

1  small  Onion  2  tablespoons  Currant 

2  teaspoons  prepared  or  Plum  Jelly 
Mustard  Salt  and  Pepper 

Cook  the  onion,  chopped  fine,  in  the  butter;  then  stir  in  the 
flour.  Add  the  soup  stock  and  stir  until  it  is  thickened.  Mix  the 
mustard  with  the  jelly  and  stir  into  the  sauce.  This  is  good  with 
fish  balls. 


Frugt  Sauce  (Fruit  Sauce  for  Puddings) 

2  cups  Red  Fruit  Juice  2  cups  Sugar 

currant,  raspberry,  2  tablespoons  Cornstarch 

rhubarb,  cherry,  sat-  Pinch  of  Salt 

suma  plum,  or  a  mix- 
ture of  any  of  these 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  fruit  juice  together  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Thicken  slightly  with  the  cornstarch,  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
14  cup  water.  Serve  cool. 

Citron  Sm0r  (Citron  Butter) 

1/4  cup  Butter  Salt 

1/2  teaspoon  Cornstarch  Juice  of  1  Lemon 

14  cup  Cream 

Mix  the  cream  and  cornstarch  together;  add  the  butter  and  salt 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  When  thickened  add  the  lemon  juice.  Serve 
over  fish,  boiled  potatoes,  cauliflower,  cabbage  or  other  vegetables 
that  are  improved  with  a  sharp  sauce. 

37 


Champion  Sauce  (Mushroom  Sauce) 

2  cups  Soup  Stock  or  1  cup  Mushrooms 

water  in  which  fish  3  tablespoons  chopped 
was  boiled  Parsley 

2  diced  Carrots  l/2  CUP  Cream 

1  small  Minced  Onion  1  tablespoon  Flour 

2  Egg  Yolks  Salt  and  Pepper 

Cook  the  carrots,  onions,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  in 
the  stock  until  the  carrots  are  tender.  Strain.  Mix  the  flour  and 
cream  together  and  thicken  the  strained  stock  with  it.  Add  the 
mushrooms,  which  have  been  previously  cooked.  Pour  over  a 
boiled  fish  or  a  fish  pudding  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 


Citron  Sauce  (Lemon  Sauce) 

J4,  cup  Flour  1  teaspoon  Sugar 

14  cup  Butter  2  teaspoons  Lemon  Juice 

1  cup  Water  Salt 

4  Egg  Yolks 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Add  the 
water  slowly  and  cook  until  thick.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  pale  yellow. 
While  thickened  mixture  is  very  hot  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten 
eggs,  beating  constantly.  Do  not  cook.  Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
sugar  and  serve. 


38 


They  can  cook,  too! 


Vegetables 


Stegte  Tomater  (Fried  Tomatoes) 


Either  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  or  green  tomatos  may  be  used 
for  this.  The  taste  of  each  is  quite  different  from  the  other  but 
both  are  good.  Allow  3  slices  for  each  serving.  Cut  tomatoes  into  % 
inch  slices.  Dip  each  slice  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  dry 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  shortening  until  brown  on  both 
sides.  Arrange  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  horseradish  sauce 
(recipe  in  chapter  on  sauces)  or  plain  white  sauce. 

39 


R0d  Kaal  (Red  Cabbage) 

1  large  head  Red  Cabbage  4  tablespoons  Sugar 

4  tablespoons  Butter  2  tablespoons  Vinegar 

Shred  cabbage  very  fine,  add  sugar,  butter  and  vinegar  and 
about  1/2  cup  of  water.  Cover  and  simmer  slowly  for  2y2  hours. 
Add  more  sugar  and  vinegar  to  taste  during  the  last  10  minutes  of 
cooking.  This  is  better  each  time  it  is  reheated.  Plum  jelly  or  cur- 
rant jelly  may  be  used  instead  of  sugar  and  vinegar  for  the  last 
addition.  Delicious  served  with  goose,  duck  or  pork. 

Brunkaal  (Browned  White  Cabbage) 

1  head  White  Cabbage  1  tablespoon  Butter 

2  tablespoons  Sugar  y±  teaspoon  Salt 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  as  for  cole  slaw.  Melt  the  sugar  and 
butter  in  a  heavy  skillet  until  browned.  Add  the  cabbage  and  stir 
until  it  is  all  browned.  Add  the  salt  and  a  little  water.  Cover 
tightly  and  simmer  for  2y2  hours,  adding  a  little  more  water  as 
needed.  Even  people  who  do  not  care  for  cabbage  think  this  is 
delicious.  A  delicious  addition  to  this  is  1  pound  salt  pork,  added 
at  time  cabbage  is  put  in. 


Fried  Parsnips 

Parsnips  Dry  Bread  Crumbs 

1  Egg  Salt 

3  tablespoons  Flour 

Slice  parsnips  into  long  pieces  about  y2  inch  thick.  Allow 
4  slices  per  serving.  Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Cool.  Make 
a  batter  of  the  beaten  egg  and  flour.  Dip  each  parsnip  slice  into 
this,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs.  Brown  in  hot  butter. 


Buttered  Parsley  Vegetables 

Danish  cooks  use  a  great  deal  of  parsley;  such  vegetables  as 
potatoes,  carrots  and  turnips  are  improved,  both  in  taste  and 
appearance  by  its  use.  Boil  the  vegetable  in  the  usual  manner. 
Melt  y±  cup  butter.  Stir  in  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley  with  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Add  to  the  cooked  vegetable  and  serve.  Especially 
good  with  broiled  steak,  boiled  fish  or  any  meat  where  a  gravy 
is  not  made. 

40 


Potatoes  Fried  in  Sugar 

10  small,  round,  cooked  3  tablespoons  Sugar 

Potatoes,  new  or  canned  Salt 

2  tablespoons  Butter  Chopped  Parsley 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  sugar,  using  a  heavy  skillet.  When  it 
has  browned  to  a  caramel  color  add  the  potatoes  and  stir  until 
they  are  coated ;  reduce  heat  to  very  low  until  potatoes  have 
heated  through.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  parsley  and  serve. 

Agurkesalat  (Cucumbers  in  Vinegar) 

Like  red  cabbage,  cucumbers  are  served  as  often  as  a  vege- 
table as  they  are  for  pickles  or  salad,  so  it  is  hard  to  know  in  which 
chapter  they  should  be  placed  in  this  book. 

2  large  cucumbers  Salt,  Pepper 

%  cup  Vinegar  Chopped  Parsley 

2  cups  Sugar 

Do  not  peel  the  cucumbers.  Slice  as  thin  as  a  newspaper.  Mix 
the  other  ingredients  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.  May  be  eaten 
at  once  but  will  be  improved  by  standing  several  hours.  Will  keep 
several  days. 

Varm  Kartoffle  Salat  (Hot  Potato  Salad) 

4  large  Potatoes  2  tablespoons  Vinegar 

1  Onion  1  teaspoon  Salt 

3  tablespoons  Bacon  2  tablespoons  Sugar 
Grease 

Boil  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on.  While  still  hot,  peel  them 
and  cut  into  small  bite  size  chunks.  Melt  the  bacon  grease  in  a 
skillet  and  stir  the  chopped  onion  into  it.  Cook  until  the  onion  is 
limp  and  pale  yellow,  being  careful  not  to  brown  it.  Add  the  other 
ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  the  potatoes  and  stir 
just  enough  to  mix.  Just  before  serving  mix  in  2  tablespoons  of 
mayonnaise.  Many  cooks  like  to  use  14  teaspoon  celery  seed  also. 

Pickled  Beets  (Sylte  R0dbeder) 

This  is  another  of  the  vegetables  that  could  be  listed  in  either 
the  vegetable  or  the  pickle  chapter.  Boil  the  beets  in  water  until 
tender,  about  1  hour.  The  skins  will  slip  off  easily.  Skin  and  slice 
into  a  crock  or  a  glass  jar.  Bring  to  boil  1  cup  vinegar  and  2  cups 

41 


sugar  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  this  over  the  beets  and  let  stand 
for  24  hours.  Serve  with  various  kinds  of  meat  or  as  a  salad  or 
Sm0rrebr0d  garnish. 

Gronkaal  med  F10de  (Creamed  Kale) 

Kale,  3  leaves  per  person  4  tablespoons  Butter 

Salt  3  tablespoons  Flour 

2  Eggs  ll/2  cups  Milk 

Cook  kale  in  salted  water  until  tender,  first  removing  the 
large  center  vein.  Hard  boil  the  eggs.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Add  the  milk  gradually  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Cook  until  thickened.  Chop  the  Kale  and  the  eggs.  Stir  into  the 
white  sauce  and  serve  at  once. 


Hvidkaal  Rouletter  (Cabbage  Rolls) 

1  head  Cabbage  1  small  Onion 

1  pound  Ground  Beef  Pinch  of  Cloves 

1  Egg  Salt  and  Pepper 

2  tablespoons   Flour 

Drop  head  of  cabbage  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  leave 
for  about  five  minutes  to  wilt  the  leaves.  Remove  leaves  one  at  a 
time.  Mix  meat,  onion,  which  has  been  chopped  very  fine,  salt, 
pepper,  flour  and  cloves,  with  the  eggs  and  place  a  large  spoonful 
in  the  center  of  each  cabbage  leaf.  Roll  and  fasten  with  a  toothpick 
or  tie  with  a  string  to  hold  it.  Drop  into  boiling,  salted  water  and 
simmer  for  1  hour.  Thicken  the  broth  in  which  the  rolls  were 
cooked  for  gravy  and  pour  over  the  rolls  which  have  been  arranged 
on  a  large  platter.  Another  recipe  for  Cabbage  rolls  will  be  found 
in  the  chapter  on  Meats. 


String  Beans  (Using  Canned  Beans) 

These  are  delicious  and  taste  exactly  like  fresh  string  beans; 
no  "canned"  trace  can  be  detected. 

No.  2  can  String  Beans,  1/2  teaspoon  each:  Sugar, 

including  the  water  Pepper,  Salt  and  Mono- 

1  small  Onion,  minced  sodium  Glutamate 

2  slices  Bacon 

Chop  bacon  and  fry  until  crisp.  Add  the  minced  onions  and 
stir  until  limp  and  cream  colored — do  not  allow  to  brown.  Add 
all  other  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover  and  simmer  for 
one  hour. 

42 


Street  dancing  whets  the  appetite! 

Sala6s 

Sildesalat  (Herring  Salad) 

A  good  Danish  cook  always  prepares  her  own  herring  for  this 
salad,  using  one  large  salt  herring  that  has  been  soaked  in  cold 
water  over  night,  then  skinned  and  boned  and  cut  into  bits.  How- 
ever, this  fish  is  not  available  in  so  many  American  markets  that 
we  have  substituted  the  pickled  herring  which  can  be  found  in 
jars  or  cans  in  almost  any  grocery  store.  It  makes  up  in  time  and 
labor  saving  for  the  very  slight  difference  in  taste. 


1  jar  Pickled  Herring, 
drained 

4  cooked  Beets,  cubed 

2  Apples,  cubed 

2  tablespoons  Sugar 


tablespoon  finely 
Chopped  Onion 

CUP  Sour  Cream 
tablespoon  Vinegar 
from  jar  of  Herring 


Cut   herring    into    bite   size    pieces    and    mix    with    the    other 
ingredients,  except  the  cream.  Chill  for  several  hours.  Just  before 

43 


serving  mix  in  the  cream.  Sliced  hard  boiled  egg  on  top  of  the 
completed  salad  will  add  to  its  appearance. 


Salat  med  F10de  (Lettuce  with  Cream) 

Loose  leaf  lettuce  is  best  for  this,  but  head  lettuce  may  be  used. 

1  head  Lettuce  y±  teaspoon  Salt 

1  tablespoon  Sugar  1  cup  Sour  Cream 

Break  lettuce  into  bite  size  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
salt  and  mix  in  the  cream  lightly.  Sweet  cream  and  one  tablespoon 
vinegar  may  be  substituted  for  the  sour  cream. 

Hot  Potato  Salad 

See  this  recipe  under  vegetables.  Like  beets,  potatoes  are  most 
used  as  a  vegetable  in  Denmark. 


\~L/2  cups    cooked    Peas  3  small  sweet  Cucumber 
(canned  peas  may  be  Pickles,  cubed 

used)  Salt  and  Pepper 

1  sm.  Onion  chopped  fine  Mayonnaise 

1/2  CUP  Cheese,  cubed 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise 
to  taste.  Serve  with  meats  or  fish.  For  a  hearty  one-dish  meal.  2 
cups  of  cooked  macaroni  added  to  this  is  good. 


Wilted  Lettuce 

Leaf  lettuce  is  best  but  head  lettuce  may  be  used. 

1  head  Lettuce  ^  teaspoon  each,  Salt, 
3  slices  Bacon  Pepper,  Monosodium 

1  large  Onion  Glutamate 

2  tablespoons  Sugar  !/£  cup  Sour  Cream 

Break  lettuce  in  bite  size  pieces  and  sprinkle  with  seasonings. 
Chop  bacon  and  fry  until  crisp.  Add  slivered  onion  and  cook  until 
limp  and  cream  colored;  do  not  brown.  While  it  is  very  hot,  pour 
over  the  lettuce  and  mix  well.  Cover  for  a  few  minutes;  this  aids 
the  wilting.  Stir  in  the  sour  cream  and  serve. 

44 


IDcsserts 


R0d  Gr0d  (Danish  Fruit  Juice  Pudding) 

2  cups  red  Fruit  Juice —  \  sm.  Cinnamon  stick 

currant,  red  raspberry,  ^4  CUP  Cornstarch 

satsuma  plum  or  cherry ;  ^  teaspoon  Salt 

or  mixture  of  any  of  About  1  cup  Sugar 
these 

Sugar  should  be  used  to  suit  individual  taste,  as  most  of  these 
fruits  are  sour.  The  pudding  should  be  tart,  rather  than  too  sweet. 

Bring  juice,  sugar  and  salt  to  a  boil.  Mix  the  cornstarch  in  a 
small  amount  of  water  and  stir  into  the  hot  juice.  Bring  to  quick 
boil  and  remove  from  heat  as  soon  as  it  thickens.  Pour  into  a  large 
pudding  dish  or  individual  molds.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar  to 
keep  a  skin  from  forming.  Serve  with  cream. 


Rombudding  (Rum  Pudding) 

1  tablespoon  gelatin  2  teaspoons  Rum  Flavoring 

^4  CUP  cold  Water  1   cup  whipping  Cream 

3  Egg  Yolks  Pinch  of  Salt 
1/2  cup  Sugar 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water;  then  dissolve  over  hot 
water.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  lemon  colored;  add  the  rum,  salt  and 
gelatin.  Chill.  Just  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  like  a  soft  jelly,  stir  in 
the  whipped  cream  and  chill  until  firm.  Serve  with  fruit  sauce. 
(See  under  "Sauces") 


Citronfromage  (Lemon  Cream) 

21/2  tablespoons  gelatin  Juice  of  2  Lemons 

6  Eggs  1  Lemon  Rind,  grated 

1  cup  Sugar 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water;  then  dissolve  over  hot 
boiling  water.  Add  sugar.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Beat  egg  yolks  until 
pale  lemon  colored.  Stir  in  the  gelatin  mixture.  Add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  the  lemons.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  chill.  Serve  with  Fruit  Sauce  (see  under  "Sauces")  or  with 
whipped  cream. 

45 


MARGARET  AND  PAUL'S  DANISH  DINING  ROOM, 
Solvang,  California,  serve  these  two  popular  recipes: 


DANSK  STIKKELSB^R   GR0D    (Gooseberry  Pudding) 


3  14-oz.  jars  Fyens 

Fancy  Gooseberries 
iy2  CUPS  Sugar 
1  2-inch  stick  Cinnamon 


5  tablespoons  Potato 

Flour 
2  drops  Vanilla 


Place  gooseberries  in  large  sauce  pan.  Add  6  cups  water, 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  cook  over  slow  heat  for 
1/2  hour.  Then  mash  the  berries  well.  Dissolve  potato  flour  in  water 
and  add  to  the  hot  gooseberries.  Cook  until  thick  - —  about  ten 
minutes  on  a  slow  heat.  Remove  from  heat,  add  vanilla  and  cool. 
Serve  cold  with  cream. 


SYLTESILD  MED  SUR  FL0DE 
(Pickled  Herring  with  Sour  Cream) 

Cut  pickled  herring  into  bite  size  pieces.  Chop  2  apples  and 
onion  into  small  bits.  Mix  all  together  with  1  cup  sour  cream. 
Serve  as  a  relish,  an  hors  d'oeuvre,  or  as  topping  for  Sm0rrebr0d. 

46 


F10debudding  (Cream  Pudding) 

2  tablespoons  gelatin  3  Eggs,  separated 

14  cup  cold  Water  4  tablespoons  Sugar 

1   teaspoon  Vanilla  1  cup  Milk 

Pinch  of  Salt  1  cup  Cream 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water.  Scald  the  milk  and  cream 
together;  add  the  softened  gelatin  and  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dis- 
solved. Cool  to  lukewarm.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  lemon  colored 
and  pour  the  milk  over  them.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until  they  form 
stiff  peaks;  fold  into  the  milk-mixture.  Place  in  refrigerator  until 
firm.  Serve  with  Fruit  Sauce  (see  under  "Sauces").  l/2  CUP  finely 
chopped  almonds  may  be  added  to  this  just  before  it  is  set  to 
chill. 


Makrondessert  (Macaroon  Dessert) 

4  Eggs,  separated  2  tablespoons  gelatin 

1/2  cup  Sugar  2  cups  Milk 

10  Macaroons  1  teaspoon  Vanilla 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  14  cup  cold  water.  Bring  milk  to  scalding 
point  and  dissolve  the  softened  gelatin  in  it.  Cool  to  lukewarm. 
Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  pale  lemon  colored.  Pour  the  milk  over 
them.  Stir  in  the  sugar  and  the  vanilla.  Chill.  When  it  begins  to  set, 
like  a  soft  jelly,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Spread  the 
macaroons  on  a  bread  board  and  roll  into  coarse  crumbs  with  a 
rolling  pin.  Spread  the  crumbs  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  buttered 
square  tin.  Pour  the  pudding  mixture  over  them  and  set  in  refriger- 
ator to  chill.  Serve,  upside  down,  with  whipped  cream. 


Ris  A  La  Mande 
(Rice  Pudding  with  Almonds) 

14  cup  Rice  3  tablespoons  Sherry 

2  cups  Milk  1/2  teaspoon  Vanilla 

1/2  cup  Sugar  1/2  cup  slivered  Almonds 

2  tablespoons  Gelatin  1  cup  Whipping  Cream 

Cook  the  rice  and  the  milk  together  until  the  rice  is  tender, 
being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Soften  the  gelatin  in  ^  cup  cold 
water;  dissolve  it  in  the  hot  rice  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla,  sherry 
and  sugar.  Cool.  When  it  begins  to  jell  stir  in  the  almonds  that 
have  been  sliced  in  slivers,  and  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  serv- 
ing bowl  and  chill  until  firm.  Serve  with  Fruit  Sauce  (see  under 
"sauces") . 

47 


^Eblekage  (Apple  Cake) 

This  is  probably  Denmark's  most  popular  dessert. 

2  cups  dry  Bread  Crumbs  21/2  cups  sweetened 

1/2  cup  Butter  Applesauce 

2  tablespoons  Sugar  1/2  pint  whipping  Cream 

The  crumbs  are  best  when  made  of  dried  French  bread  but 
any  white  bread  is  good.  Roll  or  grind  them  very  fine.  Mix  with 
the  sugar.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  heavy  skillet  and  stir  in  the  bread 
crumbs.  Stir  carefully  to  prevent  burning,  until  all  the  butter  is 
absorbed  and  the  crumbs  are  crisp  and  brown — this  last  is  the 
secret  of  good  ^Eblekage.  Cool.  Place  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  bowl;  cover  with  a  layer  of  applesauce.  Repeat  until  you 
have  several  thin  layers  of  applesauce  and  crumbs  and  all  the 
ingredients  have  been  used;  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Place  in  the 
refrigerator  for  several  hours  before  serving.  Serve  it  with  whipped 
cream  and  a  dash  of  red  jelly. 

Kasrnemaelksfromage   (Buttermilk  Pudding) 

1  cup  Sugar  1  teaspoon  Vanilla 

1  tablespoon  Gelatin  1  cup  whipping  Cream 

2  cups  Buttermilk 

14  cup  frozen  Orange 
Juice  Concentrate 

Soak  gelatin  in  14  cup  cold  water.  Stir  in  sugar  and  dissolve 
it  all  over  boiling  water.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  orange  juice  and  butter- 
milk. Stir  in  the  gelatin  mixture  and  chill.  When  it  begins  to  set, 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Chill  until  firm. 

Steamed  Pudding 

1  cup  Flour  6  Eggs,  separated 

21/2  cups  Milk  1/4  teaspoon  Cardamom 

1/2  cup  Butter  Pinch  of  Salt 
1/2  cup  Sugar 

In  top  of  double  boiler  melt  the  butter  and  stir  in  the  flour. 
Add  the  milk  slowly.  When  heated  and  smooth,  but  before  it 
thickens,  add  the  sugar  and  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Stir  until  it 
reaches  a  custard  consistency;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Cover  and  let  steam  for  !!/£>  hours.  Cool.  Serve  with  fruit  sauce  or 
whipped  cream. 

48 


Strawberry  Cream  Tarts 

2  cups  Milk  Mix 

1/2  cup  Sugar  1  cup  crushed  Straw- 

1  tablespoon  Cornstarch  berries  with 

2  Egg  Yolks  1/2  cup  Sugar 

Pinch  of  Salt  l/2  pint  whipping  Cream 

1  teasp.  Rum  Flavoring  6  Patty  Shells 

Mix  milk,  sugar  and  salt  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Dissolve  corn- 
starch  in  14  CUP  c°ld  water.  Pour  hot  milk  over  the  cornstarch  and 
cook  until  it  thickens.  Beat  egg  yolk  and  add  to  hot  milk  mixture. 
Blend  well.  Add  rum  flavoring  and  cool.  To  serve,  put  2  tablespoons 
of  the  custard  in  the  bottom  of  each  patty  shell;  then  a  table- 
soonful  of  crushed  strawberries.  Top  with  whipped  cream.  Serve 
very  cold. 


Rubarbergr0d   (Rhubarb  Pudding) 

4  cut  up  Rhubarb  ^4  teaspoon  Cinnamon 

2  cups  Water  4  tablespoons  Cornstarch 

3  cups  Sugar  or  Potato  Flour 
2  teaspoons  Red  Coloring 

Cook  rhubarb,  sugar  and  water  until  it  is  soft.  Put  through  a 
collander.  Add  red  coloring  and  cinnamon.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
stir  in  the  cornstarch  or  potato  flour  which  has  been  mixed  to  a 
paste  with  1/2  cup  cold  water.  When  thick,  pour  into  a  bowl  and 
sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar  to  keep  a  skin  from  forming.  Serve 
with  cream  which  has  been  flavored  with  vanilla  and  sweetened 
slightly. 


49 


You  don't  need  a  Danish  mailbox  to  order  additional  copies 
of  this  Danish  Cook  Book.  Address  inquiries  to  Danish  Village 
Gifts,  P.  0.  Box  DD,  Solvang,  California. 


Rum  Souffle 


4  Egg  Yolks 
1  cup  Sugar 
Rum 


1  envelope  Knox  gelatin 
!/2  pint  whipping  Cream 
3  Egg  Whites 


Beat  egg  yolks  until  light  and  lemon  colored  with  a  rotary 
beater;  slowly  add  the  sugar,  beating  continuously.  Add  rum  to 
taste  (about  14  cup).  Soften  the  gelatin  in  ^  cup  cold  water,  then 
set  over  hot  water  until  dissolved.  While  this  is  dissolving  beat 
the  cream  stiff;  beat  the  egg  whites  until  they  stand  in  peaks;  mix 
the  cream  and  egg  whites  with  a  folding  motion,  using  a  wooden 
spoon.  Add  the  gelatin  to  the  egg  yolk  mixture  and  then  combine 
the  two  mixtures  with  a  folding  motion.  Pour  into  a  square  pan 
and  chill  4  to  6  hours. 

50 


Pate  de  Foie  Gras 

10  -  12  Chicken  Livers  3  -  4  Anchovies 

Grind  together  twice.  Set  aside  while  you  mix: 

1  cup  Cream  Vs  teaspoon  Celery  Salt 

1/2  cup  Flour  and  3  1  teaspoon  Pepper 

tablespoons  butter  to  1  Egg 

a  smooth  paste  ^  teaspoon  Onion  Powder 
Add :  or   1   very  small  Onion 

1  teaspoon  Salt  minced.  Beat  well. 

Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  force  through  a  strainer,  using 
a  wooden  spoon,  twice.  Line  a  small,  deep  dish  with  slices  of  bacon. 
Pour  in  the  liver  mixture.  Fold  bacon  slices  over  the  top.  Place 
bowl  in  deep  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  at  350°  for  114  hours. 

Calf  liver  can  be  substituted  quite  satisfactorily. 


51 


pickles 


Asier  (Danish  Cucumber  Pickles) 

12  large  Cucumbers  l/£  teaspoon  Pepper 

1  teaspoon  Celery  Seed  !/£  teaspoon  Turmeric 

2  tablespoons  grated  3  cups  Vinegar 
Horseradish  3  cups  Sugar 

1  teaspoon  ground  Ginger  l/£  teaspoon  Alum 

1  teaspoon  dry  Mustard  powdered 

1/2  cup  Salt 

Peel  cucumber  and  cut  into  y^  inch  thick  slices  lengthwise. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  and  wipe  dry 
with  a  cloth.  Mix  all  other  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  full  rolling 
boil.  Drop  in  the  cucumber  slices  and  bring  to  a  boil  again.  Just 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  as  the  pickles  over-cook  quickly  and  will  be 
soft.  Seal  in  jars  while  hot.  A  nice  crunchy  pickle. 


Pickled  Beets 

See  recipe  in  Vegetable  chapter.  Beets  are  used  either  as  a 
vegetable  or  a  pickle  in  Denmark. 


Crab  Apple  Pickles 

4  quarts  Crab  Apples  3  tablespoons  mixed 

8  cups  Sugar  Pickling  Spices 

3  cups  Vinegar  1  tablespoon  Salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  large  kettle  and  heat  until 
bubbles  begin  to  appear  around  the  edge.  Crab  apples  cook  to 
pieces  quickly  so  they  must  not  be  overheated.  Remove  crab  apples 
to  the  jars  in  which  they  will  be  sealed  and  pour  hot  vinegar  to 
cover,  over  them.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain  off  the  vinegar  and 
bring  it  to  a  full  rolling  boil.  Pour  over  the  crabapples  and  let 
stand  another  24  hours.  Repeat  once  more  the  next  day  and  seal 
while  hot.  These  are  a  firm  yet  tender  spiced  pickle.  If  necessary 
add  more  vinegar  and  sugar  to  make  enough  to  fill  the  jars  each 
time. 

52 


Spiced  Plums 

4  quarts  Plums  1  teaspoon  each,  ground 

6  cups  Sugar  Cinnamon,  Allspice 

1  cup  Vinegar  1/2  teaspoon  ground  Cloves 

Prick  each  plum  with  a  fork  to  prevent  the  skins  from  bursting. 
Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  together  for  several  minutes,  then 
pour  over  the  plums  in  a  large  crock.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Repeat 
next  day.  The  third  day  lift  the  plums  into  the  jars  in  which  they 
are  to  be  sealed.  Bring  the  syrup  to  hard  boil  and  pour  over  the 
plums,  being  sure  each  jar  is  filled.  Seal  at  once. 


Pickled  Peaches 

4  quarts  Peaches  3  tablespoons  whole 

5  cups  Sugar  mixed  Pickling  Spices 
2  cups  Vinegar 

Peel  peaches.  Do  not  pit.  Bring  syrup  to  a  boil  and  drop  in 
the  peaches.  Cook  until  fruit  is  just  barely  tender.  Seal  at  once  in 
sterilized  jars.  For  a  red  pickle  add  1  cup  cinnamon;  drop  candies 
to  the  above  syrup. 


53 


Danish  sandwiches,  a  real  art  in  itself. 


Smorrebro6 


Translated  literally,  Sm0rrebr0d  means  bread  and  butter. 
But  a  Danish  Sm0rrebr0d  is  a  long  way  from  being  plain,  old- 
fashioned  American  bread  and  butter.  To  be  sure,  you  start  out 
with  a  slice  of  bread  heavily  buttered;  then  you  pile  on  it  anything 
your  fancy  dictates.  The  higher  it  can  be  piled  and  the  more  color- 
ful it  is,  the  more  successful  will  it  be  considered.  In  America 
we  call  them  open-faced  sandwiches  and  they  deserve  more  recogni- 
tion than  they  receive.  A  real  Sm0rrebr0d  is  a  work  of  art  and 
once  you  have  made  a  plateful  of  them  you  will  feel  that  it  should 
be  photographed;  it  is  that  beautiful.  Let  your  imagination  run 
wild — from  baked  beans  and  cold  boiled  potatoes  stacked  high 
with  toppings  of  sliced  tomatoes,  pickled  herring,  ham,  parsley, 
scrambled  eggs  or  cheese.  Remember  that  the  base  must  be  bread 
that  has  been  sliced  very  thin  and  buttered  heavily.  Pumpernickel 
is  used  most  often  but  white  bread  is  good  for  certain  kinds.  Butter 
must  be  spread  on  very  thick  and  not  even  the  tiniest  corner  of  the 
buttered  bread  may  show  beneath  the  fillings  you  pile  on.  You 

54 


eat  it  with  a  knife  and  fork.  A  sliver  of  lettuce  on  one  corner  will 
add  to  its  color  and  appetite  appeal.  Following  are  a  few  sugges- 
tions— but  don't  let  them  hamper  your  imagination;  let  them  be 
only  a  springboard  for  your  own  concoctions. 


Shrimp  Sm0rrebr0d 

Butter  a  slice  of  white  bread  and  cut  it  into  3  triangle  shaped 
pieces.  Place  a  small  piece  of  lettuce  on  the  small  corner.  Use  the 
very  small  Danish  shrimp  for  this  and  pile  them  at  least  an  inch 
high  over  the  entire  surface  of  the  rest  of  the  bread.  Place  a  dot  of 
mayonnaise  on  top  and  then  a  slice  of  lemon  that  has  been  sprinkled 
with  paprika  and  twisted  so  it  will  stand  high.  Garnish  the  platter 
with  sliced  tomato  and  parsley. 


Scrambled  Egg  Sm0rrebr0d 

Butter  a  slice  of  pumpernickel  bread  and  cut  it  into  2  triangle 
pieces.  Place  a  lettuce  leaf  on  one  corner.  Cover  the  entire  surface 
of  the  bread  with  1/2  inch  of  scrambled  egg.  Top  this  with  pickled 
herring  slivers  or  anchovies.  Split  a  slice  of  beet  pickle  and  twist 
it  for  height-giving  top.  Garnish  the  platter  with  parsley  and 
radish-roses. 


Roast  Beef  Sm0rrebr0d 

Have  the  beef  a  little  rare,  so  the  slices  will  look  pink  against 
the  bread  and  lettuce.  Spread  a  slice  of  pumpernickel  with  butter 
and  place  a  small  lettuce  leaf  on  one  corner.  Now  lay  the  slice  of 
roast  beef  so  the  entire  surface  of  the  bread  is  covered.  Next  lay  on 
a  couple  of  slivers  of  jellied  consomme.  Then  pile  high  with  drained 
cucumbers  in  vinegar  (see  under  "Vegetables").  Garnish  with 
parsley. 


Leverpostej  Sm0rrebr0d 

Spread  pumpernickel  bread  with  butter  and  cut  into  2  triangle 
shaped  pieces.  Place  a  bit  of  lettuce  on  the  corner  of  each  triangle. 
Spread  leverpostej  about  l/^  inch  thick  over  the  entire  surface  of 
the  bread,  being  sure  not  even  a  corner  is  showing.  Lay  a  slice  of 
Asier  (see  under  Tickles")  across  this,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and 
top  with  a  twist  of  beet  pickle.  Recipe  for  leverpostej  will  be  found 
in  "Meat"  chapter;  or  use  the  Patte  de  Foie  Gras  recipe  on  page  51. 

55 


Cold  Potato  Sm0rrebr0d 

Butter  a  slice  of  pumpernickel  and  leave  it  whole.  Slice  cold 
boiled  potatoes  and  cover  the  entire  slice  of  bread  with  them,  except 
for  the  lettuce  covered  corner.  Spread  with  mayonnaise.  Lay  2  sar- 
dines over  this.  Dot  with  cucumber  pickles  and  top  with  a  beet 
pickle  swirl. 

The  variety  can  be  as  endless  as  your  imagination:  raw  oysters 
topped  with  beet  pickles  and  parsley;  sardines  with  sliced  tomatoes 
and  green  olives;  lean  tender  steak  with  pickles  and  parsley;  raw 
hamburger  with  minced  onion;  cucumbers  in  vinegar  and  parsley; 
crab  meat  or  lobster  with  mayonnaise  and  lemon  swirl;  smoked 
fish  with  dill  pickles  and  boiled  egg  slices;  left-over  fish  or  roast 
with  parsley,  tomatoes  and  beet  swirl;  rellepulse  (see  under 
"Meats")  with  beet  swirl  and  jellied  consomme. 

CHEESE:  the  variety  is  wide.  These  are  usually  made  on 
crackers  and  sprinkled  with  paprika.  Often  served  for  desert. 

Always  be  sure  to  give  a  lift  of  color,  both  on  your  platter 
and  on  the  individual  sandwiches;  for  this  use  sliced  tomatoes,  par- 
sley sprigs,  radish  roses,  paprika  and  red  jellies. 

Give  a  Sm0rrebr0d  party  some  time;  huge  platters  filled  with 
the  delightful  things  and  served  with  beer  or  coffee  or  cokes,  and 
listen  to  people  hint  for  another  invitation. 


56 


A   popular  treat  at  the  Little  Mermaid,  Solvang,  California, 
is    a    delicate    omelette.    The    recipe,    originating    from    Denmark 

follows : 


Little 
Mermaid 
Omelette 

Perfect  for  one 


First,  take  2  big  ranch  eggs.  Get  out  2  medium-sized  bowls. 
Separate  the  whites  and  yolks,  putting  the  whites  into  one  bowl,  the 
yolks  into  the  other. 

Put  a  pinch  of  salt  into  the  yolks,  also  !/£>  teaspoon  granulated 
sugar,  and  4  teaspoons  cream.  Beat  whites  till  very  stiff,  but  not 

57 


dry,  accomplishing  this  with  a  Dover  egg  beater.  Shake  as  much 
egg  whites  as  you  can  off  the  beater. 

Next,  (without  washing  the  beater,)  beat  yolks  only  until 
frothy  and  well  mixed. 

Add  the  yolks  to  the  whites. 

Take  a  tablespoon  and  fold  in  carefully. 

Into  two  8  inch,  thin  frying  pans,  put  1  tablespoon  butter  in 
each  and  let  it  melt.  Tip  each  pan  around  as  the  butter  melts,  so  it 
thoroughly  coats  the  floor  of  it  and  all  sides,  clear  to  the  top. 

Set  one  pan  aside. 

Pour  your  mixture  into  the  first  prepared  pan.  Let  cook — 
uncovered — over  lowest  heat.  When  it  is  set  (in  about  5  minutes), 
put  other  pan  over  heat.  Then  take  a  spatula  and  go  all  around  the 
pan  between  the  omelette  and  the  pan,  and  loosen  the  edge. 

Peek  under,  and  if  bottom  is  brown,  flip  the  pan  with  the 
omelette  in  it  directly  over  the  other  one,  and  the  omelette  drops 
into  it. 

Now,  once  again,  let  the  omelette  cook — unlidded — over  the 
lowest  fire  until  it  is  set  in  the  middle  (another  five  minutes), 
after  which  time  loosen  once  again  around  the  edge,  turn  it  out 
on  a  heated  plate,  and  serve  with  2  melting  pats  of  butter  on  top 
of  your  golden  omelette.  Cooking  it  in  this  way,  is  both  tricky  and 
difficult,  but  the  result  is  well  worth  the  trouble.  You  are  rewarded 
with  a  puffy,  buttery  omelette,  miraculously  toast-brown  on  both 
sides. 

Accompany  with  whole  wheat  toast,  more  butter,  fresh  rasp- 
berry jam,  and  coffee. 


58 


