TCHEN 


)il|i#it»##i|iiM#i#»^ 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1916, 

By  The  Ladies  Auxiliary, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington,  D   C. 

[all  rights  reserved] 


COMMUNITY    CHURCH    AND    FIRST   SCHOOL 

FREDERICKSBURG.   TEXAS 


PRESENT  SCHOOL   BUILDING.   Fredericksbu RG.  Texas 


THE    FREDERICKSBURG 


Honne  Kitchen 

Cook  Book 


PUBLISHED   BY 

THE   LADIES  AUXILIARY 

OF  FREDERICKSBURG.  TEXAS 

1916 


ill*" 


PREFACE. 


This  booklet  has  been  compiled 
in    memory    of    the    first    years 
activities  of  the 

FREDERICKSBURG  LADIES 
AUXILIARY 
and  in  the  hope  that  by  the  pro- 
ceeds of  the  sale,  we  may  be  able 
to  smooth  over  some  of  the  rough 
places  along  the  road  for  our 
school,  its  teachers  and  its  pupils. 

Mrs.  H.  Goldschmidt, 

President. 

Mrs.  Emil  Riley, 

Vice-President, 

Miss  Elsbeth  Hanisch, 

Secretary. 

Mrs.  Robert  Striegler, 
Treasurer. 


SEP  23  1916 


•CI,A438554 


eOOKING  AND  eULTURE 

ON  THE  fEDERNALES 


The  rolling  prairie  dripping  with  the  violent  tor- 
rential rains  of  Texas  or  seared  and  parched  a  dry  and 
cracking  brown  by  summers'  drouth,  the  sparkling 
rivers  with  their  sombre  cypress  borders  or  shady 
groves  of  walnut  and  pecan — know  only  woodland  sounds 
of  birds  and  beast  that  seek  their  cooling  shelter,  taste 
of  the  purling  waters,   browse   on   the   succulent   herbs 

and  grasses  or  prey  upon  the  weaker  of  their  kind. 
*         *         * 

The  nomad  Indian  prowls  along  these  peaceful 
haunts,  brings  to  earth  the  wild  turkey  with  his  bow 
and  arrow,  prepares  the  feast  over  the  open  fire  and 
devours  it  resting  on  his  haunches.  After  the  meal  he 
smokes  his  soothing  "Calumet"',  its  brown  leaves, 
prairie-yielded.  He  teaches  the  stripling  redskin  how 
to  fell  the  bison — to  prepare  the  deadly  arrow  with 
the  venom  of  the  viper,  —  all  his  lore  is  slaying — 
slaying,  for  food,  for  shelter,  for  revenge,  or  conquest. 

The  first  blow  of  the  ax — tocsin  of  human  progress. 
The  pioneer  has  come  to  clear  the  land  and  build 
his  rough  log  cabin.  In  the  spacious  fire-place  swings 
the  iron  kettle  with  his  rude  trappers'  fare;  he  rears 
a  stalwart  race,  steeled  to  hard  labor,  untaught,  un- 
lettered save  for  the  woodland  crafts,  the  hunt,  the 
stream  or  skirmishings  with  Indian  neighbors. 

In  homespun  cloth,  astride  on  shaggy  ponies,  the 
lads  and  lasses  wend  their  way  to  the  log  schoolhouse 
on  the  hillock,  summoned  by  the  peal  of  the  forefather 
of  all  Texas  school-bells.     The  master  cloaks  his  lack 


—  6 


of  learning  under  greater  sternness,  the  text-book  play- 
ing second  fiddle  to  the  ferrule.  Homes  on  the  first 
thanksgiving  can  boast  of  bounteous  cupboards;  the 
hardest  years  are  past  and  there  is  time  for  feast  and 
song,    for    ease    and    plenty. 

Thru  snowy  cotton  fields,  acres  of  corn  and  grain, 
traverse  two  tiny  lines  of  steel  on  a  ribbed  bed  of 
logs  and  the  day  at  last  has  come  that  the  last  peg 
is  to  be  put  into  the  iron  trail  —  a  happy  consum- 
mation ! 

The  thriving  town  is  decked  with  flags  and 
bunting;  schoolchildren,  clad  in  sunday  laces,  sing 
welcome  to  the  throng  that  has  come  to  christen  the 
first  engine  destined  to  draw  the  products  of  their 
fields  and  orchards  to  the  great  marts  of  trade.  Bands 
play  ajid  feasts  are  spread ;  the  best  of  all  that  harvest 
yields  is  showered  forth  to  tempt  the  appetite:  huge 
cakes  and  fragrant  pies  and  tarts,  jellies  and  preserves 
all  testify  to  housewives'  skill;  savory  sausages,  home 
cured  hams  and  mellowest  of  cheese  disclose  their 
craft. 

There  is  loud  rejoicing  here  for  what  has  been 
achieved  and  there  is  too,  a  still  and  holy  joy  for 
what  is  yet  to  be  —  and  a  few  dreamers  see,  —  nestled 
among  these  lovely  hills  —  a  city  bright  and  fair, 
peaceful  abode  for  a  happy,  healthy  and  industrious 
generation,  led  by  wise  council,  and  crowned  by  the 
fairest  of  all  temples  —  a  perfect  SCHOOL-HOUSE. 


_  7  — 

RELISHES. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

6  oysters;  2  tablespoonfuls  toDiato  catsup;  1/2  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  horse  radish;  juice  of  1/2  small 
lemon;     dash  of  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

This  is  for  one  cocktail. 

MRS.  F.   L.   FREY. 

Cheese  Straws. 

1  cup  flour;  1'  cup  grated  cheese;  1  level  tea- 
spoon salt;  1|6  teaspoon  (Cayenne  pepper;  4  table- 
spoons melted  Snowdrift  (any  kind  of  lard  will  do) ; 
3   tablespoons   ice   water. 

Sift  flour  and  mix  with  Snowdrift  stirring  with  a 
fork.  Add  cheese  and  seasoning,  and  lastly  add  ice 
water.  Roll  on  floured  board  about  14  in.  thick. 
Cut  into  narrow  strips  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MISS  ALVINA  GOLD. 

Pimento  and  Egg  Canapees. 

Pimentoes  1/2  can;  butter  1/2  cup;  salt  1/2  tea- 
spoonful;  eggs  (hard  boiled);  bread,  toasted  or 
fried;  pickled  walnuts,  or  any  other  pickles. 

Rinse  the  pimentoes  in  cold  water,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
then  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  the  salt  and  butter  and 
pound  until  whole  is  smooth.  Spread  on  diamond- 
shaped  pieces  of  toasted  or  fried  bread,  placing  a 
slice  of  hard  boiled  egg  and  a  small  piece  of  pickle 
in  the   centre   of  each   piece  of  bread. 

CONSTANCE  STRIEGLER. 


-  8  — 

Stuffed  Celery. 

14  lb.  Roquefort  cheese;  14  eup  Bweet  cream; 
paprika,    olives,    green    peppers. 

Work  cream  into  cheese  until  as  sraoth  as  paate; 
add  chopped  olives  and  peppers;  fill  hollows  of  tender 
stalks  of  celery,  dust  with  paprika;  serve  as  an 
appetizer  with  soup  or  as  after-dinner  cheese. 

MRS.   W.   PETIT. 


Anchovy  Appetiser. 

Spread    triangles    of    toast    with    anchovy    paste, 

place  on  each  a  thin  slice  of  fresh  ripe  tomato,  sprinkle 

over   with    hard    boiled    egg    chopped    fine.      Place    on 

nest    of    cress    or    parsley    garnished      with      pimento 

strips. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


Table  Mustard. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  y^*,  cupful  of 
vinegar;     yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Wet  mustard  with  a  little  boiling  water,  add 
sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  vinegar.  Mix 
well,  set  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  miniites,  stirring. 

A   good  relish. 

MRS.  A.  B.  WILLIAMSON. 


9  — 


Welsh  Rarebit. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  1  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch ;  1/2  teaspoonful  of  mustard ;  salt  and  Chile 
pepper  to  taste;  1^  cup  of  cream;  y^  lb.  of  soft  mild 
American  cheese. 

Cream,  butter,  cornstarch  and  mustard  to  a  paste. 
Add  to  the  hot  cream.  Lastly  add  cheese  and  season- 
ing. Stir  till  cheese  melts.  Serve  on  toast  browned 
on    one    side. 

MISS  DORA  NAUWALD. 


—  10  — 

SOUPS 


Beef  Soup. 

Boil  2  lbs.  of  beef  in  14  gal.  water.  When  it 
come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  a  pinch  of  celery  salt,  1  onion,  and  1  cupful 
tomatoes.     Boil  at  least  2  hours. 

MRS.   A.   WEHMEYER. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

1  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  1  quart  of  sweet 
milk. 

Boil  20  minutes;  add  !  tablespoonful  melted  butter 
and  thicken  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  dissolved 
in  milk  or  water.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  little 
cream    added    improves    it. 

MISS  FORRES. 

Pish   Chowder. 

To  every  2  lbs.  fish,  use  5  medium  sized  potatoes; 
1  large  onion;  5  or  6  slices  breakfast  bacon;  canned 
tomatoes;  2  bay  leaves;  1  teaspoonful  whole  pepper; 
salt  and  paprika  to   taste. 

Slice  bacon  and  fry  light  brown,  add  potatoes, 
onion  and  fish  in  layers,  cover  with  canned  tomatoes 
into  which  seasoning  has  been  stirred.  Simmer  until 
well    done. 

Serve  as  soup,  excellent  Friday  dish. 

MRS.   H.   GOLDSCHMIDT, 


—  11  — 

Milk  Soup  (fine). 

1  qt.  fresh  milk;  14  Qt-  water;  yolk  of  2  eggs; 
a  pinch  of  salt;  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff;  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cornstarch;  lemon  peel  or  vanilla,  or  2  fresh 
peach   leaves. 

Put  on  the  stove  the  water  and  milk,  add  the 
cornstarch  after  it  has  been  dissolved  with  a  little 
of  the  water;  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  beaten  yolks, 
also  the  lemon  or  peach  leaves  and  sugar,  stirring  all 
the  time  while  heating.  "When  it  begins  to  thicken 
remove  from  the  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  a  dish. 
Drop  spoonfuls  of  the  beaten  whites  of  egg  on  top, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Then  put  on 
cover  at  once  so  that  the  heat  may  cook  the  Avhites. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Milk  Soup. 

1/^  cup  rice;  1  qt.  milk;  1  egg;  I/4  cup  sugar;  i^ 
teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Cook  rice  in  water  until  tender.  Add  milk,  then 
boil  a  few  minutes,  take  from  fire  and  beat  into  this 
1    egg,   add  nutmeg.     Lastly   add   the   sugar. 

MRS.  RICHARD  HENKE. 

Oyster  Soup. 

2  quarts  of  milk;  yolk  of  one  egg;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter;  3  small  cans  of  oysters;  1  tablespoon- 
ful    of   flour. 

Salt   and   pepper   to    taste, 

MRS.  L.   DIETZ. 


—  12  — 

Pea  Soup. 

Soak  2  cups  of  dried  peas  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing cook  until  half  done,  then  add  1  lb.  sausage  cut 
into  pieces  (skin  removed),  1  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.     Keep   plenty   of  water   on   peas. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 


Potato  Soup  with  Tomatoes. 

Equal  parts  of  potatoes  and  tomatoes;  1  large 
onion;   and   salt   to    taste. 

Boil    in    sufficient    water,    until    well    done,    strain 

through  a  fine  sieve,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

mixed    with    2    tablespoonfuls    of    fresh    butter.      Add 

parsley   to   taste. 

MRS.  PETER  ROEDER. 


Peanut   Soup. 

Grind  one  cup  peanuts,  cover  with  1  pt.  water 
and  simmer  2  hours.  Have  1  pt.  tomatoes  and  one 
onion  cut  fine;  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  allspice,  1 
teaspoonful  sugar  and  1'  pt.  water  cooking  in  another 
vessel.  When  ready  strain  the  nut  liquid  into  the 
other,  thicken  with  flour,  and  serve. 

MISS  FORRES. 


13 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes;  1  qt.  of  water;  1  qt.  of  sweet 
milk;  5  crackers;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;     butter  and  salt. 

Cook  tomatoes  in  water  until  tender.  Rub  through 
a  sieve.  Place  tomatoes  on  the  stove  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  the  soda.  After  it  ceases  to 
effervesce,  add  the  boiling  milk,  rolled  crackers,  sugar 
and  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Boil  a  few  minutes. 
Serve. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Cream  of  Tom^ato  Soup. 

1  pt.  tomatoes ;  1  qt.  milk ;  1  slice  onion ;  1  bay 
leaf;  1^  teaspoon  soda;  1  tablespoon  butter;  1  table- 
spoon flour;  1  teaspoon  sugar;  1   teaspoon  salt. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with  the 
onion  and  bay  leaf,  press  the  tomatoes  through  a 
sieve  and  return  to  the  stove,  heat  the  milk,  rub  the 
flour  and  butter  together  until  smooth,  add  a  little  of 
the  hot  milk  to  this  mixture,  stir  until  smooth,  then 
add  to  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens  to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the 
tomatoes,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water; 
gradually  add  the  milk  stirring  briskly.  The  success 
of  this  part  of  the  work  depends  on  the  milk  not 
curdling.  The  soup  must  not  be  heated  after  the 
milk  is  added. 

IDA  HENNERSDORF. 


14 


Tomato  Bisque. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes,  or  fresh  tomatoes  to 
that  amount;  1  quart  sweet  milk;  1  tablespoonful 
butter;     1   tablespoonful  flour;     %   teaspoonful's   soda. 

Steam  the  tomatoes  and  strain.  Add  the  soda  to 
the  hot  tomatoes  and  stir.  Make  a  thin  paste  with 
the  flour  and  a  little  of  the  milk;  add  to  the  tomato 
juice  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Next  put  in  the  butter, 
and  last  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Serve  with  toasted   crackers. 

MRS.   J.   T.   ESTILL. 

Wine  Soup. 

1  quart  of  water ;  y^.  cup  of  sago ;  i'2  ^^P  of  wine ; 
a  few  raisins;  vanilla;  1]3  cup  of  sugar;  2  slices  of 
lemon;  a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon.  Toasted 
bread    cubes. 

Put  a  quart  of  water  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Then 
add  the  sago,  after  it  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water 
several  times;  then  the  cinnamon,  lemons,  and  raisins. 
Let  this  boil'  until  clear  and  raisins  done.  Take  from 
the  stove  and  add  sugar,  wine  and  vanilla.  Just  before 
serving  add  bread  cubes  toasted  in  a  little  butter. 
You  may  add  wine  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 


—  15  — 

OYSTERS  AND  FISH. 


Little  Pigs  in  Blankets. 

Take  large  oysters  and  around  each  oyster  wrap 
a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  securing  with  wooden  tooth 
picks.  Season  Avith  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter. 
Bake  in  oven  for  half  hour  and  serve  very  hot  on 
toast  with  celery  and  garnish  the  platter  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

MRS.   F.   L.  FREY. 

Fish  a  la  Creole. 

To  a  4  —  5  lb.  Bed  fish;  2  lb.  can  strained 
tomatoes;  1  medium  size  onion;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  i/4  lb.  butter;  cup  soup  stock  or  water;  1 
cup  cracker  crumbs. 

Start  frying  the  fish  in  the  butter,  cover  with 
crumbs,  with  onion,  tomato  and  seasoning,  bake 
45   minutes   or   1  hour. 

MARIE  GESSLER. 

,    Salmon  Croquettes. 

1  can  salmon;  4  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes; 
2  eggs. 

After  draining  the  salmon  and  removing  the  bones 
and  skins;  mix  with  the  potatoes  previously  boiled 
and  mashed.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Make  out  in  balls  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.     SGrve  with  tomato  sauce. 

JULIA  ESTILL. 


—  16  — 

Baked  Fish. 

After  cleaning  the  fish  thoroughly  let  it  stand  in 
salt  water  for  2  or  3  hours.  Rub  it  well,  inside  and 
out,  with  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small  onion  chopped 
fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stuff  the  fish  with  this 
dressing  and  tie  or  sew  up.  Put  it  in  a  pan  with  a 
little  water.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  adding  a  small  piece 
of  butter.  Bake  slowly  1  hour.  Garnish  with  hard 
boiled    eggs. 

META  DIETZ. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Take  oysters  according  to  the  number  to  be  served 
and  put  them  in  pan  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  flour;  stir  and  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 

Bake  shells  of  rich  puff  paste  in  patty  pans  and 
also  rounds  for  covers;  heat  the  shells  and  fill  with 
oysters;  put  on  the  covers  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
five   minutes.      Serve   immediately. 

MRS.   A.   L.   PATTON. 

Salmon   Croquettes. 

1  can  salmon;  2  eggs:  salt;  Cayenne  pepper: 
bread-crumbs. 

Remove  bones  from  salmon,  shred  with  fork,  and 
add  salt,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  beaten  eggs.  Into  this 
Diix  enough  fine  bread-crumbs  to  handle  well,  form 
into  round  or  oblong  shape,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  A.   L.   PATTON, 


—  17  — 

Fish  Premier  with  Premier  Sauce. 

4  lbs.  fish;  salt  and  pepper;  2  doz.  large  oysters; 

14  cup  butter;  yolk  of  1  egg;  juice  of  i^  lemon; 

Remove  the  head  and  tail  of  fish,  skin  and  bone 
it,  leaving  two  oblong  pieces.  Lay  one  of  the  pieces 
on  a  greased  baking  sheet  in  the  baking  jpan,  cover 
with  half  the  oysters.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  the 
crumbs  and  pour  over  them  one  half  of  the  melted 
butter.  Then  cover  it  with  the  other  half  of  the  fish. 
Place  the  remaining  oysters  on  top  of  that  piece  of 
fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  rest 
of  the  crumbs  on  the  oysters  and  pour  the  remaining 
butter  over  the  crumbs.  Put  into  a  moderate  oven  and 
brown.  When  done  slip  it  carefully  into  a  hot  plat- 
ter, garnish  with  watercress  and  sliced  lemon.  Serve 
with  the  following  sauce : 

Va  cup  butter;  yolk  of  1  egg;  juice  of  1^  lemon; 
14  teaspoon  salt;  l'|3  cup  boiling  water;  pinch  of  white 
pepper. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  for  six  minutes  and  serve 
in  a  separate  bowl.  Sufficient  for  six  persons. 
Delicious. 

MRS.  F.   L.  FREY. 


—   18   — 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 


Chicken  Curry. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  weighing  from  1^/^  to  2  pounds, 
as  for  fricassee.  Wash  it  well,  put  into  a  stewpan 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  boil  closely  covered 
until  tender,  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  cook 
a  few  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  the  fire,  take  out 
the  chicken,  pour  the  liquor  into  a  bowl  and  set  it 
aside. 

Now  cut  up  into  the  stew  pan  two  small  onions 
and  fry  them  with  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg. 
As  soon  as  they  are  brown  skim  them  out  and  put  in 
the  chicken,  fry  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Next 
sprinkle  over  the  chicken  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Curry 
Powder.  Now  pour  over  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  stewed,  stir  all  well  together  and  stew 
for  five  minutes  longer.  Then  stir  into  this  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sifted  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water. 
Lastly  stir  in  a  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  it  is  done. 
Serve  wdth  hot  boiled  rice  laid  around  on  the  edge 
of   a  platter  and   the   chicken   curry   in  the   center. 

MRS.  F.  L.  FREY. 

Jellied  Chicken. 

1  chicken;  1  onion;  2  bay  leaves;  i/^  teaspoonful 
of  white  pepper ;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  3  cloves ;  I/q 
box    of    powdered    gelatine. 

Singe  and  draw  chicken,  place  in  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water,  boil  until  tender.     Lift  the  chicken  out  and 


—   19   — 

set  aside  to  cool.  Then  cut  into  neat  pieces.  Take 
one  quart  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled 
and  add  the  onion,  bay  leaves,  pepper,  salt,  cloves 
and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  gelatine 
(which  has  been  dissolved)  and  strain.  Arrange  the 
chicken  in  a  wet  mould,  fill  with  the  stock.  Place 
on  ice  to  jell.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Chicken  Dumpling's. 

Disjoint  the  fowl  and  cook  in  about  2  quarts  of 
water  till  tender,  season  with  salt,  whole  peppers, 
v/hole  cloves,  (and  if  desired  a  little  nutmeg).  Make 
thick  batter  for  dumplings  as  follows : 

1  pint  flour ;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  i^ 
teaspoonful  salt;  2  eggs;  enough  sweet  milk  to  make 
stiff   batter. 

Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  in  boiling  liquor  on  top  of 
chicken  and  boil  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Dressing  for  Turkey. 

Bread;  fresh  pork;  3  eggs;  giblets;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  ginger;     salt. 

Take  bread  enough  to  fill  turkey  and  pour 
boiling  milk  or  water  over  it.  When  thoroughly  soaked, 
place  in  a  muslin  bag,  squeeze  carefully  until  dry.  Then 
add  1/2  lb.  of  fresh  pork  and  giblets  chopped  fine,  three 
or  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
Salt  to  taste.  Mix  well.  This  dressing  should  be  as 
light  as  bread  after  it  is  cooked. 

MRS.  F.   STEIN. 


—  20   — 

Chicken   a   la   King. 

2  cupfuls  diced  chiekenineat  (white  preferred)  ; 
6  tablespoonfuls  chopped  green  peppers;  i/2  ^^a- 
spoonful  salt ;  3  cupf  lis  rich  cream ;  1  ta1)lespoonful 
butter ;  5  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil ;  3  tablespoonfuls 
chopped  pimentoes ;  1  tablespoonful  capers ;  1  can  or 
11/2  cupfuls  fresh  mushrooms;  2^^  tablespoonfuls  flour; 
2  egg-yolks;  paprika. 

Cook  mushrooms  five  minutes  in  the  olive  oil, 
then  add  the  mixture  to  the  chicken,  capers,  peppers 
and  pimentoes,  and  add  a  dash  of  paprika  and  salt. 
Prepare  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  cream, 
beating  the  two  egg-^^olks  and  pouring  the  sauce  into 
them  when  it  is  done.  Add  the  chicken  mixture,  heat 
thoroughl}^  and  serve  either  in  individual  ramekins 
or  patti  cases,  or  on  diamond-shaped  slices  of  buttered 
toast. 

MARY  LOVE. 


Haunch  of  Venison   (baked). 

Allow  all  game  to  air  from  48  to  GO  hours.  Lard 
well  with  bacon  that  has  been  turned  in  salt 
and   pepper. 

Rub  haunch  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  bacon, 
grease  and  butter  in  large  covered  baking-pan.  Bake 
basting  frequently.  Add  hot  water  or  soup  stock 
gradually.  10  minutes  before  serving  add  i/4  ^^P  thick 
sour  cream.  If  necessary  thicken  with  small  amount 
of  corn  starch. 

MARIE  GESSLBR. 


—   21   — 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Cut  up  the  fowls  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a 
light  cover  so  as  to  retain  the  steam.  Add  enough 
water  to  cover  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Allow  it 
to  cook  until  the  meat  drops  easily  from  the  bones. 
Chop  fine,  add  a  little  allspice,  put  in  a  dish  and  press, 
pour  over  it  the  remainder  of  the  stock  in  which  it 
was  cooked.  Set  in  a  cool  place  until  jellied. 
MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  FOR  PRESSED 
CHICKEN. 

3  eggs  well  beaten;  y^  cup  of  sugar;  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful  salt;  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper;  Yo  teaspoonful 
black  pepper;  Y^  teaspoonful  mustard;  1  tablespoonful 
olive  oil ;  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  1   cup  of  vinegar. 

Boil    until    thick. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DIETZ. 

Stuffing-, 

like  Mother  used  to   make! 

Light  bread ;  i/o  cup  currants ;  i/>  cup  nuts ;  1 
cup  sliced  apples;  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  of  fowls 
chopped  finely;  2  eggs;   salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  a  sufficient  quantity  of  light  bread,  wring- 
dry,  add  enough  milk  or  cream  to  handle  well  Avith 
mixing  spoon.  Turn  in  currants,  apples,  nuts  and  the 
meat  that  has  been  previously  fried  in  butter  with  a 
suggestion  of  onion.  Mix  in  yolks  of  eggs  and  sea- 
soning, add  beaten  whites  and  stuff  fowls  with  the 
mixture. 

Excellent  especially  for  game. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  22  — 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Dressing. 

Gizzard,  heart  and  liver  of  fowl;  4  or  5  slices  of 
bread;  4  eggs;  1  medium-sized  onion;  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  also  a  little  nutmeg 
if    liked. 

Take  heart  and  gizzard  and  boil  yo  hour  adding 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Soak  bread  in  water,  squeeze  out  and 
add  eggs  to  it.  Chop  fine  the  heart,  gizzard  and  raw 
liver  with  onion.  Mix  with  bread  and  eggs,  using  the 
water  in  which  heart  and  gizzard  were  boiled  in  mix- 
ing. To  this  add  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  to- 
gether using  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  when  hot 
enough  pour  in  dressing.  Fry  until  brown  then  cut 
crosswise  and  turn.  When  half  done  pour  over  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  chicken  gravy  at  different  times, 
cover  and  fry  slowly. 

MRS.  FRED.  WALTER. 

Roast  Quail. 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  each  of  the  birds  to 
prevent  their  getting  dry.  Slit  2  slices  of  bacon  once 
or  twice  and  tie  over  breasts  of  birds  which  should 
be  trussed  for  roasting.  Wrap  in  buttered  paper  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes,  basting  well  and 
frequently.  For  the  last  8  minutes  remove  paper  and 
bacon,  sprinkle  with  a  little  flour,  salt,  and  pepper, 
baste  Avell,  and  brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished 
with  rolls  of  bacon.  Hand  with  it  gravy,  bread  sauce, 
and  guava  jelly. 

MISS  ZULA  MAE  HILL. 


—  23   — 

M  EATS. 

Beef  Loaf  with  Tomatoes. 

3  lbs.  chopped  beef;  i/^  lb.  chopped  pork;  1  large 
onion;  1  pint  jar  or  can  of  tomatoes;  !  large  cup 
of  bread  crumbs;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Chop  onion  fine;  add  to  chopped  meat  and  bread 
which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water.  Mix  all  together 
with  tomatoes  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake 
in  loaf  pan  about  one  hour. 

BELLE  STEBBTNS. 

Beef  Loaf. 

2  lbs.  of  raw  beef  ground  fine;  14  lb.  of  salt 
pork;  3  eggs;  %  cup  cracker  crumbs;  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter;    salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  onion  if  liked. 

Mold  in  loaf,  grate  crackers  over  top  and  bake. 
MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Boneless  Birds. 
11/2   lbs.   round  steak;     4   slices   bacon;     1   grated 
onion;   1   pint  boiling   water;   3   tablespoons   butter   or 
drippings;  1  tablespoon  browned  flour. 

Cut  steak  in  four  inch  pieces.  Lay  on  each  a 
small  piece  of  bacon  and  onion,  roll  up,  and  tie  with 
string,  or  use  tooth-picks.  Brown  and  put  in  pan  with 
gravy  made  with  flour,  butter,  and  water.  Cook  slow- 
ly  one   hour. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 
MRS.  W.  J.  JUNG. 


—   24   — 

Cabbage  Stuffed  with  Meat. 

8  oz.  ground  beef;  3  to  4  oz.  of  soaked  bread; 
21/)   oz.   butter;  2  eggs;   salt,   nutmeg  and  pepper. 

Mix  these  ingredients  and  form  into  balls.  Tlien 
take  large  leaves  of  cabbage  which  have  been  scalded 
with  boiling  Avater  and  cut  out  the  hard  veins.  Cover 
meat  balls  with  cabbage  leaves  and  tie  together  with 
thread.  Then  boil  1  hour  adding  1  cup  of  water, 
some  butter  and  nutmeg,  take  out  cabbage  balls  and 
add  a  little  flour  to  the  gravy  and  pour  over  the 
balls. 

MRS.  0.  W.  yiRlEGLEE. 

Mutton  Stew. 

2  lbs.  mutton  chops ;  2  tablespoonfuls  flour ;  lard, 
water,  allspice ;  cloves,  pepper  and  salt ;  a  few  bay 
leaves  and  one   onion. 

Fry  chops  in  lard  until  brown.  Kemove  from  pan, 
then  add  water,  flour,  and  seasoning,  and  cook  to 
smooth  gravy.     Pour  over  chops  and  serve  at  once. 

MRS.   RICHARD  HENKE. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 

Cut  off  tops  of  sweet  green  peppers,  remove  seeds. 
Take  equal  parts  of  cold  chopped  meat  and  slightly 
moistened  bread  crumbs.  Season  Avith  finely  chopped 
tomato,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  as  well  as  a 
generous  piece  of  butter.  Fill  peppers,  place  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  water  and  butter.     Bake  slowly  until  done. 

MRS.   TEMPLE   D.   SMITH. 


—  25  — 

Meat  Loaf. 

1  lb.  lean  beef;  i/o  lb.  pork  or  mutton;  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs;  2  green  peppers,,  chopped  up;  1  onion; 
1   egg;   1   tablespoonful  salt. 

Grind  up  the  meat,  mix  in  salt,  peppers,  bread 
crumbs,  onion  and  egg.  Cover  with  the  following 
sauce. 

2  cups  tomato  juice ;  2  tablespoonf uls  corn  starch ; 
4  tablespoonfuls  shortening;  1  tablespoonful  salt. 

Bake  one  hour.  This  recipe  is  sufficient  for  six 
people. 

MRS.   OTTO   EVERS. 

Meat  Olives. 

Plank  steaks;  bacon  (sliced);  onion,  chopped;  i/o 
cup  toasted  bread  crumbs;     salt  and  pepper  to   taste. 

Split  steaks  lengthwise,  cut  into  pieces  5x3  in., 
place  slice  of  bacon  and  onion  on  each,  season  to  taste, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  roll  up  and  tie  Avith  thread  or 
skewer  with  tooth  picks. 

Brown  meat  rolls  in  half  lard  and  half  fat,  cover 
with  boiling  soup  stock  or  water  and  simmer  over  slow 
fire  an  hour  and  a  half.  The  meat  must  be  tender  and 
the  gravy  rich   and  brown. 

MRS.  H.  F.  RANSLEBEN. 

A  Good  Steak. 

1  lb.   of  steak;   1   egg;   flour;  pepper  and  salt. 

One  pound  of  steak  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Dip  in  well  beaten  egg,  then  in  flour  and  fry  at  once 
in  hot  lard  and  butter  mixed  to  a  light  brown. 

MRS.   F.   STEIN. 


;  '  —  26  — 

Scalloped  Sweetbreads. 

SoaJk  sweetbreads  in  salt  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Boil  until  well  done,  then  remove  skins  and  small 
pipes  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  put  a  layer  of  rolled  crackers,  then  a  layer 
of  sweetbreads  until  dish  is  full,  add  salt  and  pepper. 
Strain  the  water  the  sweetbreads  were  boiled  in,  add 
milk  to  make  enough  liquid  to  cover  the  crackers  and 
sweetbreads.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 

Planked  Steak. 

Have  choice  sirloin  steak  cut  almost  two  inches 
thick,  and  cut  through  edge  to  prevent  curling.  Heat 
oven  eight  or  ten  minutes,  and  set  plank  in  upper 
oven  to  heat,  while  meat  is  broiling  beneath  flame. 
Brown  steak  quickly  on  each  side,  then  reduce  flame 
and  finish  cooking  more  slowly.  Place  meat  on 
the  plank,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  creamed 
with  lemon  juice,  and  minced  parsley,  garnish  with 
potato  border  and  small  stuffed  tomatoes,  pimentoes 
or  green  peppers  and  cress.    Serve  piping  hot. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.  MAIER. 

Pickled  Meat. 

2  lbs.  of  yellow  sugar;  5  lbs.  of  salt;  4  oz.  of  salt- 
peter;    14   quarts   of   water. 

Cook  slowly,  until  brine  will  carry  an  egg.  When 
cold,  pour  the  brine  over  the  meat. 

MRS.  WM.  WEYRICH. 


—   27   — 

Sliced  Tongue. 

Boil  the  tongue  in  about  2  quarts  of  water  until 
tender.  Bemove  from  liquor,  skin  and  cut  into  slices, 
melt  1/2  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add  half  an 
onion  and  fry  over  slow  fire  until  yellow.  Add  the 
boiling  liquor  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  half  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  or  more,  and 
half  a  teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water. 
Now  add  the  sliced  tongue  and  boil  from  15  to  20 
minutes. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Veal  Loaf. 

3  lbs.   of  veal;  seasonings;  and  gelatine. 

Boil  3  pounds  of  lean  veal  in  enough  water  to 
cover  it  well.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  slowly,  until 
the  meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Take  out  the  meat 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquid  in  which  the 
meat  was  cooked,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  few 
cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  a  little  celery  salt  or  seed,  a 
few  mustard  seeds,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Cook  the  liquid  about  '^  hour  longer  with  the  season- 
ing, then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine,  (dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water),  and  strain.  Arrange  the 
chopped  meat  in  a  wet  mold,  and  pour  the  liquid  over 
it.  Let  stand  until  the  next  day,  when  it  may  be 
turned  out  on  a  flat  dish  and  sliced.  When  serving 
garnish  with  parsley  and  '  sliced  lemon  or  sliced 
tomatoes. 

MRS.   R.   G.  STRIEGLER. 


—  28  — 

White  Fricassee  of  Tongue. 

Tongue  boiled  in  salt  water,  diced  fine.  Melt  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  butter  browned  slightl}^  one 
chopped  onion  and  a  tablespoon  flour,  add  the  boiled 
down  liquor  from  the  tongue.  Add  slices  of  lemon, 
from  which  the  seed  have  been  carefully  removed, 
mace,  white  pepper  to  taste  and  ^^  glass  white  wine 
and  put  the  diced  tongue  into  the  liquor,  boiling  both 
together  over  a  very  slow  fire.  Serve  with  small 
round  meat  dumplings  that  have  been  boiled  in  salt 
water  or  soup  stock.  The  sauce  may  be  thickened 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs  before  serving  which  greatly 
improves  both  taste  and  appearance. 

MRS.  F.  MORGAN. 

Pickled   Meat. 

To  100  lbs.  meat,  allow  7^2  lt»s.  salt;  %  lb.  sugar 
(Kandis-Zucker)  ;    1    oz.    saltpeter. 

Boil  and  then  allow  to  cool. 

The  meat,  cut,  is  placed  into  the  barrel  or  crock ; 
the  cooled  brine  poured  over.  Small  boards  weighted 
with  stones'  laid  on  top  to  keep  meat  well  under  brine. 
The  pieces  reserved  for  smoking  should  be  removed 
after  two  Aveeks  Avhile  the  rest  may  remain  in  pickle 
until  used.  From  time  to  time  pieces  of  beef  or  tongue 
may  be  placed  in  same  brine  without  detriment  to 
taste. 

MRS.  BANNOWSKY. 


29  — 


MACARONI,  RICE,  EGGS, 
POTATOES,  ETC. 


Cheese  Soufflee, 

1  cupful  of  cheese;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  i/2 
cupful  of  sweet  milk;  T  cupful  of  hot  milk;  4  eggs; 
1/2   teaspoonful  salt;     dash  of  pepper. 

Mix  the  flour  and  cold  milk  well;  add  this  to 
the  hot  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  add  cheese,  stir 
until  cheese  melts.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten; 
remove  from  the  fire,  add  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Stir   in   carefully   the   whites   well   beaten.     Bake   in   a 

moderate  oven. 

MRS.   A.   B.   WILLIAMSON. 

Cheese    Corn    Soufflee. 

1  cupful  grated  cheese;  1  cupful  canned  corn; 
3  eggs;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1  tablespoonful  flour; 
iy2   cups  sweet  milk. 

Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour;  pour  upon  it 
the  milk  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thickened ;  add  the 
cheese,  and  ^Yhen  this  is  blended,  add  the  corn,  chopped 
or  ground  and  drained  from  the  liquid.  Put  in  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour. 

MRS.  J.  T.  ESTILL. 


—  30  — 

Ham  Soufflee. 

1  cup  of  cold  chopped  ham;  ^2  cup  of  bread 
crumbs;     1  small  onion,  a  bit  of  parsley  cut  fine. 

Pepper,  salt  to  suit  taste.  Beat  3  eggs,  adding  1 
pint  of  milk,  mix  all  together.  Bake  25  minutes.  Sei-ve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 


Stuffed  Eggs. 

One  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs;  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  mustard;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  boiled 
ham  or  chicken;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  pickles;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Remove  the  shells  and  cut  lengthwise,  take  out 
yolks  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  mustard 
and  butter,  then  add  the  ham  or  meat,  salt  and  pepper 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  with 
this  mixture. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 


Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Break  1  box  of  macaroni  into  small  pieces,  put 
in  well  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  20  to  25  minutes 
stirring  frequently.  "When  done  drain,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  3  oz.  grated  cheese  and  enough  milk 
to  about  cover,  mix  well  and  heat;  then  pour  into 
a  buttered  dish,  sprinkle  a  layer  of  cheese  on  top  and 
bake  for  about  i/^  hour.     Serve  at  once. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 


—  31  — 

Spanish  Macaroni. 

2  slices  bacon;  1  pt.  macaroni;  1  pt,  ste'^ed 
tomatoes;  1  cup  cold  cooked  meat;  1  or  2  onions; 
1  green  sweet  pepper;  butter  to  grease  pan;  milk  or 
soup  stock. 

Fry  onions,  bacon  and  pepper.  Pill  pan  a  layer 
of  macaroni  and  a  layer  of  tomatoes  mixed  with  the 
other   ingredients. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Mexican  Bice. 

1  cup  rice;  2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard;  1  table- 
spoon chili  powder;  y^,  cup  chopped  tomatoes;  1  table- 
spoon minced  onion;     salt  to  taste. 

Put  butter  or  lard  in  a  skillet,  add  the  well 
washed  rice  and  brown,  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 
When  brown  add  the  onion,  tomato,  chile  powder  and 
salt.  Then  add  boiling  water  enough  to  cook  the  rice 
thoroughly. 

MISS  FORRES. 

Mexican  Rice  (sopa  seca.) 

1  teaspoon  lard;  1  cup  rice;  4  tomatoes,  medium 
size ;     salt ;  Cayenne ;  onion  juice  to  taste. 

Heat  to  the  smoking  point  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 
la.rd,  throw  in  rice  (dry)  and  stir  while  it  browns 
gently.  Have  tomatoes  ready  peeled  and  cut,  add 
these  quickly  with  the  seasoning,  stir  until  tomatoes 
soften,  add  enough  water  to  swell  rice  and  cook 
until  soft  on  a  slow  fire. 

Serve  with  chile  and  beans,  or  fried  sausage. 

MRS.  HERM.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  32  — 

Quick  Rice. 

To  1  cup  of  washed  rice  add  4  cups  boiling  water 
and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  in  oven 
40  minutes. 

MISS  FORRES. 


Browned  Rice  with  Chile. 
Wash  1/^  cup  of  rice  and  lay  on  cloth  to  dry, 
then  melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  put  the  rice 
in  stirring  constantly  until  a  nice  brown,  pour  over 
enough  water  to  cover  well,  and  let  simmer  until 
soft,  adding  y^.  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of 
chile  powder. 

MRS.   D.   A.   RILEY. 


German  Milk  Rice. 

1  cup  washed  rice;  6  times  quantity  water;  1  pt. 
rich  milk;  i^  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  yolks 
of  eggs. 

Boil  rice  until  tender  but  grains  are  still  whole, 
drain  off  water,  add  milk,  sugar  and  butter.  When 
done,  remove  from  fire,  and  carefully  beat  in  yolks  of 
eggs.  Turn  into  dish  and  sprinkle  liberally  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon. 

MRS.   H.  F.   RANSLEBEN. 


33 


Potato  Balls. 
2    cups   mashed   potatoes;      1    teaspoon    butter;     3 
yolks  of  eggs ;     I/2  cup  of  milk ;     2  heaping  tablespoons 
of   flour. 

Mix  ingredients  into  a  soft  but  firm,  dough,  scoop 
up  with  teaspoon,  drop  into  deep  fat  and  brown  slowly 
and  evenly.     Very  fine. 

MRS.  H.  F.  RANSLEBEN. 

Pan  Cakes. 

1  cup  of  meal;  1  cup  of  flour;  a  pinch  of  sajt:  1 
cup  of  sour  milk;  %  teaspoon  of  soda;  2  well  beaten 
eggs. 

Sift  together  corn  meal,  flour  and  salt.  Then 
add  milk  to  which  soda  has  been  added  and  lastly  the 
eggs   well   beaten. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Pilau. 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  mutton-stock 
which  has  been  skimmed  and  seasoned  with  onion, 
tomato,  salt  and  cayenne.  When  the  rice  is  soft  and 
has  soaked  up  all  the  liquor  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter. 

Mince  cold  mutton  or  lamb  until  you  have  a  cup- 
ful ;  heat  a  cupful  of  gravy,  season  well  and  thicken 
with  browned  flour,  then  stir  in  the  minced  meat, 
and  boil  up  once.  Pour  upon  a  heated  platter  and 
arrange  the  rice  like  a  fence  around  it.  Pilau  is  even 
better  when  made  with  chicken-stock  and  meat  instead 
of  mutton. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 


—  34  — 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Boil  6  large  potatoes  in  salt  water,  mash  and 
mix  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  little  parsley,  make 
into  cone  shape,  beat  the  white  of  the  egg,  first  roll 
cones  in  egg  and  then  roll  in  brown  bread  crumbs, 
fry  in  butter  until  nicely  browned. 

MRS.  H.   CORDES. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

(Rohe  Kartoffel-Kloesse.) 

5  or  6  medium  sized  potatoes  grated  and  pressed 
fairly  dry;  the  mass  is  then  moistened  with  boiling 
milk  aaid  made  into  a  dough  not  too  thin  but  yet  not 
firm  enough  to  form  into  balls.  Add  salt  to  taste 
and  mix  in  bread  croutons  cut  into  cubes.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  boiling  salt-water  and  allow  half  an 
hour  after  the  last  one  is  in.  Remove  from  water 
carefully   without   breaking    and   serve    at   once. 

MRS.  CLARA  BITTNER. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

Cream  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  saucer  full  of  bread  crumbs, 
one  saucer  full  of  grated  boiled  potatoes  (which  should 
not  be  watery),  lemon  peeling,  nutmeg  and  salt,  and 
lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Drop  by 
small  spoonfuls,  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  about  10 
minutes. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER. 


—  35  — 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Bake  7  good  sized  potatoes.  When  done,  cut  off 
a  lengthwise  slice;  scoop  out  potatoes  with  a  spoon, 
then  mash.  Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste;  l^  cupful  milk,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Refill  skins  with  this  mixture.  Pile  lightly 
and  bake  until  potatoes  are  puffed  and  brown. 

MRS.  FELIX  KLAERNER. 


—  36  — 

VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus. 

Scrape  the  stems  of  the  asparagus  lightly  hut  very 
clean,  throw  them  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  scraped ; 
tie  into  bunches  of  equal  size,  and  drop  into  plenty 
of  boiling  water,  well  salted.  It  usually  cooks  in  20 
or  30  minutes.  In  a  saucepan,  mix  a  tablespoonful 
of  slightly  browned  flour,  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter,  add  enough  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  asparagus 
was  boiled  to  make  a  thick  sauce,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream. 
Add  the  asparagus,  and  let  simmer  a  minute,  when  it 
is   ready  to   serve. 

MRS.   R.   G.   STRIEGLER. 

Cucumbers. 

Remove  the  seed  of  4  large  cucumbers,  cut  into 
dice  and  cook  about  %  hour  in  I/2  cup  water,  %  cup 
vinegar  and  I/2  cup  sugar.  Squash  may  be  cooked  the 
same  way. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER. 

Fried  Cauliflower. 
Boil  the  cauliflower  until  half  done.  Mix  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
then  add  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Add 
salt  to  taste  and  two  well  beaten  Avhites  of  eggs.  Dip 
each  branch  of  caulifloAver  into  the  mixture,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.  When  done,  take  out  with  a  skimnier, 
turn  into  a  colander,  dust  with  salt,  and  serve  hot. 


—  37  — 

Celery  Croquettes. 

Minee  the  white  part  of  the  celery  and  mix  well 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs;  to  a  quart 
of  the  mixture  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  if  the 
moisture  from  the  celery  is  not  sufficient,  add  a  little 
milk.  Shape  in  cones,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  B.  L.  ENDERLE. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

1  qt.  of  carrots ;    1  cupful  of  onion ;  salt  and  butter. 

Scrape  carrots  and  cut  into  small  squares  enough 
for  one  quart;  cook  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Drain. 
Soak,  one  small  cupful  of  onion  cut  fine,  in  salt  water, 
for  ten  minutes.  Drain.  Fry  onions  in  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  light  brown,  add  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  with  carrots  and  cook  for 
ten    minutes. 

MRS.  P.  STEIN. 

Baked  Cabbage. 

Drop  well-washed  cabbage  leaf  by  leaf  into  boiling 
water  and  boil  20  minutes,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  salt 
to  a  quart  of  water. 

Drain,  chop  finely,  arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  add 
a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  sauce  made  of  milk 
thickened  with  corn  starch  and  a  piece   of  butter. 

Bake   15   minutea. 

MRS.     0.   EVERS. 


—  38  — 

Cabbage. 

Chop  cabbage  very  fine  and  put  into  a  frying 
pan  in  which  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of 
lard  has  been  heated;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  add  3  spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Cover  with  a  lid  and  let  simmer  until  almost  done. 
Take  off  the  fire  and  pour  over  immediately,  2  eggs 
that  had  been  well  beaten  and  mixed  Avith  a  14  cup 
milk. 

This  may   be   served  either  hot   or  cold. 

Creamed  Cabbage. 

Chop  cabbage  to  make  two  quarts.  Cover  with 
cold  water,  soak  one  hour;  drain;  cover  with  boiling 
water,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
uncovered;  drain  again.  Rub  together  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  1/2  pint  of 
milk;  stir  until  it  boils.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  aaid  pepper,  add  the  cabbage,  heat  carefully, 
and  serve. 

MISS  ALMA  SCHUCH. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Chop  cabbage  fine;  cook  until  tender;  season  to 
taste.  When  done  drain  and  keep  it  hot  till  dressing 
is  poured  over. 

DRESSING:  One  half  cup  vinegar,  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  one  half  cup  sour 
cream.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  mix  well  with 
cabbage. 


39 


Baked  Green  Corn. 

To  two  cups  of  cooked  green  corn  cut  from  cob 
and  chopped  fine,  add  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  bvitter  and  2  cups  of 
scalded    milk. 

Mix  well  and  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Bake  until  firm,  in  moderate  oven. 

BELLE   STEBBINS. 

Broiled  Egg-Plant. 

Peel  and  cut  into  rather  thin  slices  and  lay  in 
salted  ice-water  for  an  hour;  spread  upon  a  soft  towel 
and  cover  with  another,  patting  and  pressing  the 
slices  until  they  are  entirely  dry.  Leav^e  them  for  10 
minutes  in  a  mixture  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive 
oil  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  sprinkle  then  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  broil  quickly  upon  a  wire 
broiler.      Twelve   minutes   should   cook   both   sides. 

MRS.  AU.  CRENWELGE. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

4  sweet  green  peppers;  1  cup  cooked  rice;  1  cup 
cold  minced  chicken;  2  tablespoons  finely  cut  celery; 
onion  juice;  pepper  and  salt;  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter;   lA   cup  tomatoes. 

Split  peppers  in  half,  remove  seeds  and  ribs. 
Mix  the  ingredients,  fill  into  peppers,  grate  cheese 
over  top  and  bake  in  pan   with  little  water. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 


—  40  — 

Stuffed  Egg--Plant. 
Parboil  a  good  sized  egg-plant  for  about  10 
minutes,  and  throw  at  once  into  cold  salted  water. 
Leave  there  for  an  hour.  Cut  into  halves,  lengthwise, 
and  scoop  out  seeds  and  pulp,  leaving  the  walls  half 
an  inch  thick.  Run  the  pulp  through  a  food-chopper; 
add  to  it  about  a  cup  of  minced  chicken  (or  any  kind 
of  meat).  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  i/^  cupful  of  fino 
dry  bread  crumbs.  Fill  the  halves  with  this  stuffing 
and  tie  together  with  a  string.  Put  into  a  baking- 
dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  butter,  or 
the  same  of  stock;  cover  closely  and  bake  in  a 
moderate   oven   for  half  an   hour.     Remove   the   string 

and  serve. 

MRS.    WM.  CRENWELGE. 

Goulash. 

3  large  onions;  1  can  tomatoes;  1  teaspoon  paprika; 
8  medium  sized  potatoes;  1  coffeespoon  salt;  2  lbs. 
rump   steak. 

Chop  onions  and  brown  in  lard  or  a  good-sized 
piece  of  bacon,  add  paprika  and  salt  and  when  well 
thinned,  add  the  meat  cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  this 
fry  to  a  crisp  and  light  broAvn  in  color,  add  3  large 
tomatoes  or  a  pound  of  canned.  Simmer  slowly  until 
half  done,  then  add  potatoes  cut  into  cubes.  Add 
water  if  necessary  and  boil  until  gravy  is  well 
thickened. 

MRS.  CLARA  BITTNER. 


—  41  — 

Gumbo. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  6  tomatoes;  6  to  8  okras; 
1  onion;  2  chile  peppers;  a  little  cabbage. 

Add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little 
water.      Stew    until    tender. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUTIGAM. 

Southern  Gumbo. 

Fry  in  cubes  of  bacon  two  tablespoons  of  rice 
until  well  browned,  add  small  onion,  sliced.  Add  to 
this  1  qt.  sliced  tomatoes;  1  qt.  okra;  1  pod  green 
pepper. 

Cook  one  hour. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MAIER. 

Kohl-Rabi  a  la  Creme. 

Peel  and  quarter  and  then  cut  them  in  thin  slices 
and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  butter,  add  to  it  a  little  flour, 
salt,  nutmeg  and  white  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
beat  it  into  the  butter.  When  thick  add  the  vegetable 
and  serve.  The  leaves  when  tender  are  boiled  and 
served  as  spinach. 

MRS.  B.  L.  ENDERLE. 

Fried  Okra. 

Boil  okra  in  salt  water,  adding  2  teaspoonfuls 
vinegar,  cut  lengthwise,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt, 
dregde  in  cornmeal  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter  until 
delicately  browned. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 


—  42  — 

Baked  Potatoes  and  Herring. 

3  lbs.  potatoes;  2  or  3  salt  herrings;   3  yolks  and 
one  egg;  ^4  quart  sour  cream. 

Parboil  potatoes,  slice.  Let  herrings  soak  in  milk 
two  or  three  hours  to  remove  excessive  salt.  Bone 
carefully  and  chop.  Place  alternately  in  a  baking  dish, 
layers  of  potatoes  and  herring.  Beat  cream  and  eggs 
well,  pour  over  potatoes  and  herring  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  to  l^/^  hours. 

MRS.  JOHN  MAERZ. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Select  large  tomatoes  of  even  size,  scoop  out  a 
small  place  and  fill  with  either  of  the  following 
dressings. 

DRESSING  No.  1:  Fry  a  small  finely  chopped 
onion  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  when  nearly  done 
add  some  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  a  little  milk 
or  water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  little 
butter  on  each  and  bake. 

DRESSING  No  2:  Chop  very  fine  cold  meat  or 
fowl  of  any  kind  with  a  very  small  piece  of  bacon; 
fry  a  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  little  butter,  when 
nearly  done  add  the  meat,  some  bread  crumbs,  pepper 
and  salt;  cook  a  minute,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and 
fill  the  tomatoes;  place  them  in  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle   with   bread  crumbs   add  small  bits   of  butter. 

May  be  used  as  a  garnish  or  served  by  itself. 

MISS   META   DIETZ. 


—  43  — 

Spinach. 

Wash  the  spinach  3  or  4  times,  pick  carefull}^,  and 
boil  until  tender.  Drain  well,  and  chop  fine.  Now  put 
about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  bacon  into  a 
saucepan,  add  a  heaping  tablespoon ful  of  slightly 
browned  flour,  and  a  small  onion  chopped  fine.  Add 
the  spinach  and  about  one  cupful  of  soup  stock,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  boil  up,  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

MRS.   R.   G.   STRIEGLER. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Melt  1  cup  sugar  with  l^  cup  butter.  Boil  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  when  nearly  done,  peel,  slice  and  place 
in  layers  in  a  shallow  pan,  putting  a  tablespoon  of 
the  melted  butter  on  each  slice.  Add  4  tablespoons 
hot  Avater  and  bake  %  hour,   basting   often, 

MRS.  F.  J.  MAIER. 

Spanish  Tomatoes. 

6  good  sized  tomatoes ;  2  or  3  large  sweet 
peppers;  2  onions;  14  cup  milk;  1  tablespoon  flour; 
1   tablespoonful  butter. 

Cut  peppers  and  onions  in  small  pieces  and  cook 
in.  enough  salt  Avater  to  cover  them. 

When  done  add  tomatoes  Avhich  have  been  cooked 
in  another  vessel;  let  all  cook  together  for  a  few 
minutes,  put  in  a  pinch  of  soda,  let  mixture  boil  up 
Avell,  then  add  milk  and  flour  beaten  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Just  before  removing  froDi  stove,  put  in  salt 
and  buttey,     serve  very  hot. 

MRS.    TEMPLE   D.    SMITH. 


44 


Stuffed  Baked   Tomatoes. 

12  tomatoes;  1  small  cabbage  head;  1*  medium 
sized  onion ;  1  cupful  of  sweet  cream ;  bread  crumbs, 
butter,  pepper,  sugar  and  salt. 

From  the  blossom  end  of  smooth,  ripe  and  solid 
tomatoes,  cut  a  thin  slice;  scoop  out  the  pulp  without 
breaking  the  rind  surrounding  it.  Chop  cabbage  and 
onions  fine,  mix  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  tomato 
pulp;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar; 
add  the  cream  and  mix  well.  Stuff  the  tomatoes;  re- 
place the  slices,  and  place  tomatoes  (with  cut  ends 
up)  in  a  baking  dish  with  enough  water  to  keep  from, 
burning.  Drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato 
and  bake  until  tender.  Place  another  small  lump  of 
butter  on  each  tomato  and  serve  in  same  dish.  Very- 
fine. 

MISS   BEllTHA    OCHS. 


—  45  — 

SALADS. 

Apple  Salad. 

Peel    and    dice    about    half   a    dozen    apples.     Beat 

2  egg  yolks,  i/^  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  salt,  white 
pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  heat  over  slow- 
fire  until  it  begins  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Then 
add  1  cup  of  cream,  beat  until  it  is  cool.  Pour  over 
apples  and  mix  thoroughly. 

MRS.   ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Beet  Salad. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  beets,  celery,  in  equal  parts; 

3  hard  boiled  eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil.  Season 
to   taste. 

Dice  the  potatoes,  beets,  and  celery.  Mash  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  olive  oil,  salt  and  pepper  and 
mix  with  the  vegetables.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
garnish   with   rings   of  the   hard   boiled   whites. 

MRS.   AUG.   ITZ. 

Celery  Salad. 

2  bunches  celery ;  1  tablespoon  olive  oil ;  4  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar;  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Wash  and  scrape  celery;  lay  in  ice-cold  water  until 
ready  for  use.  Cut  into  inch  lengths,  mix  with  dressing 
and  serve   cold. 

MRS.   ED.   OEHLER. 


—  46  — 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Medium-sized  head  of  cabbage;  1  large  apple,  chop 
up  fine  and  salt;  i/4  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Pour  over  this  a  dressing  made  of  2  eggs;  3  tea- 
spoon butter;  1/2  cup  pine-apple  juice;  a  pinch  of 
mustard  and  celery  salt. 

This  salad  may  be  improved  by  adding  2  or  3 
slices  of  pineapple. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Mixed  Salad. 

6  large  boiled  potatoes  (cold),  diced;  3  barely  ripe 
tomatoes;  1  onion,  chopped;  3  hard-boiled  eggs;  1 
cucumber,   sliced. 

Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed.  Moisten 
with  oil  and  vinegar  or  sour  cream  dressing.  Must  not 
be    dry. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Chicken  Salad. 

1  boiled  chicken ;  1  cup  pecans ;  a  few  apples ;  a  few 
pickles;  some  celery;  six  eggs;  1  tablespoonful  sugar; 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter;  l^  tablespoonful  mustard;  1 
cup    cider   vinegar;   pepper    and    salt. 

Chop  the  chicken,  add  pecans,  apples,  pickles  and 
celery.  Boil  eggs  hard.  Rub  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
fine,  add  sugar,  butter,  mustard,  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  ingredients,  put  into  a  dish 
and  decorate  with  three  eggs  cut  into  rings  or 
lengthwise. 

MRS,  AUG,  GOLD. 


—  47  — 

Chicken  Salad. 

1  boiled  chicken ;  2  small  pickles ;  1  cup  pecans ; 
1  stalk  celery;  2  apples;  6  eggs. 

Chop  chicken,  pecans,  apples,  pickles  and  celery- 
very  fine.  Boil  eggs  hard  and  cut  in  small  squares, 
use  half  for  salad  and  half  to  decorate  the  top  of 
salad. 

DRESSING:  l^  teaspoon  sugar;  2  eggs;  1/4  tea- 
spoon mustard;  i/^  cup  vinegar;  I/2  teaspoon  salt;  1/0 
cup  water;  14  teaspoon  cayenne;  1  level  tablespoon 
flour;  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Mix  sugar,  mustard,  salt,  cayenne  and  flour  and 
beat  well  with  the  eggs,  then  add  vinegar,  water  and 
butter,  stir  thoroughly,  and  then  put  in  double  boiler 
and  let  boil  till  it  thickens.  When  cold  mix  with 
salad  and  serve. 

MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 

Chicken  Salad. 
Take  1  nice  large  hen,  boil  tender  in  salt  water, 
then  take  from  fire  but  let  chicken  remain  in  stock 
until  cold.  Cut  up  in  i/^  inch  pieces,  then  take  I/2 
the  amount  of  blanched  tender  celery  and  also  cut  up 
in  1|3  inch  pieces,  and  about  1  doz.  olives  cut  in  small 
pieces.  When  ready  to  serve  mix  with  plenty  of  may- 
onnaise dressing. 

MISS  MARY  STEIN. 


—  48  — 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad. 

1  bunch  celery;  4  ajiples;  dice  very  fine. 
Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  dress  with 
a  mixture  of  vinegar  (1  tablespoonful)   and  double  the 
amount   thick    cream.     A    tablespoonful   sugar   may    be 
added  if  preferred. 

MRS.  OTTO  EVERS. 

Italian  Salad. 

Any  kind  of  meat  cut  into  small  squares,  add  same 
quantity  of  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice,  2  hard  boiled 
eggs,  1  grated  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cut  pickles,  1  tablespoon  cream,  a 
little  red  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  with  necessary  vinegar 
and  olive  oil. 

MRS.  I.  GLATZLE. 

Salad  of  Celery  Stalks. 

1  head  of  cabbage;  12  celery  stalks,  chopped  fine. 
DRESSING:     1  cup  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

2  yolks  of  eggs   (well  beaten);  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tea- 
spoon mustard;   a  pinch  cayenne;   1   tablespoon  sugar. 
Beat  dressing  well  and  pour  over  salad. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Marshmallow  Salad. 

2  cups  marshmallows ;  2  cups  pineapples;  2  cups 
pecans. 

Sweeten  to  taste;  add  whipped  cream  and  a  touch 
of  mayonnaise   dressing. 

MRS.  HENRY  HIRSCH. 


—  49  — 

Fruit  Salad. 

4  bananas;  4  apples;  4  oranges;  i^  cup  of  pecans. 

DRESSING  :  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  2  eggs ; 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter. 

Mix  sugar,  eggs  and  butter,  then  add  vinegar. 
Stir  well  so  it  will  not  lump.  Cook  until  thick,  then 
add  whipped  cream. 

MRS.    ROEHM. 

Fruit  Salad. 

1  cup  nuts;  4  ripe  apples;  4  bananas;  i/^  cup 
celery;  i/^  tablespoon  melted  butter;  i/^  tablespoon 
flour ;  1/2  pi*it  sweet  milk ;  1  egg ;  1/4  cup  sugar ;  i^ 
cup  vinegar;     14  teaspoon  mustard. 

Chop  fine  the  nuts,  apples,  bananas  and  celery 
and  mix  with  the  following  dressing:  Thicken  the 
milk  with  the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Mix  the  beaten  egg,  sugar,  vinegar,  and 
mustard  and  add  to  the  thickened  milk  stirring  con- 
stantly  until   smooth. 

MRS.  Ai;C4.  JORDAN. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Small  box  of  pineapples ;  3  apples ;  3  bananas ;  3 
oranges ;  %  cup  of  pecans  and  dressing  as  follows : 

Mix  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  the  juice  of  the  pineapples  and 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  —  Add  vinegar  last. 
Stir  well,  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 
When  cool  add  whipped  cream. 

MRS.   R.   G.   STRIEGLER. 


—  50  — 

Ham  Salad. 

2  lbs.  boiled  ham,  cut  in  cubes;  3  chopped  apples; 
1^  cup  nuts;  1/2  cup  vinegar;  1/2  cup  celery,  cut  in 
small  pieces.     Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste. 

Mix  well  and  before  serving  add  the  follovring 
dressing : 

Yolks  of  3  boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  paste;  yolks 
of  2  raw  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  vinegar,  then  add  enough  salad  oil  or 
melted  butter  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  cream. 

MRS.  MARY  SCHWARZ. 

Nut  Salad. 

4  apples ;  2  cups  celery ;  2  cups  nuts. 

Peel  and  cut  the  apples;  cut  the  celery  and  pecans 
and  mix  with  the  apples. 

DRESSING:  1  cup  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  sugar; 
1  tablespoon  butter;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  1/2  cup  water. 

Cook  vinegar  and  water,  add  butter,  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  well  and 
stir  in  quickly.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  while  hot 
over  salad.     Serve  cold. 

MRS.  HERMAN  USENER. 

Nut  Salad. 

6  apples,  cut  in  small  slices;  2  bunches  of  celery, 
cut  fine ;  1  cup  nuts ;  2  tablespoonfuls  whipped 
cream;  2   tablespoonfuls  salad  dressing. 

MISS  MARY  KELLER. 


—  61»  — 

Potato  Salad  with  Herring. 

6  medium  sized  potatoes,  boiled  in  tlieir  jackets; 
3  hard  boiled  eggs;  salt  and  pepper  and  onion  to 
taste;    2  or  3  salt  herrings,  soaked  at  least  12  hours. 

Slice  potatoes,  remove  bones  from  herrings  and 
cut  into  cubes;  mix  together. 

Let  come  to  a  boil  14  cup  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  onion  and  i/o  cup  water, 
pour  over  salad  and  serve  cold. 

MRS.   FRITZ   SIMON. 

Picnic  Salad. 

1/^  qt.  finely  chopped  cabbage;  6  apples;  1  cup 
nuts;   1'  cup  celery  or  1  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed; 

3  hard  boiled  eggs;   1   cup   of  cream. 

DRESSING:  2  raw  eggs,  well  beaten;  1  table- 
spoonful of  mixed  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  salt  to  taste;  a  little  white 
pepper. 

Mix  well,  add  the  cream  and  pour  over  the 
mixture, 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Peel  and  cut  a  slice  from  stem  end  of  each  tomato 
and  remove  the  inside  pul^).  Pare  2  small  cucumbers, 
cut  in  quarters  and  put  in  ice  water  until  ready  to 
mix,  then  dry  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Mix  with  drained 
tomato  pulp  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Arrange 
lettuce  leaves,  put  in  tomatoes  filled  with  cucumber 
mixture  and  put  1  teaspoon  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each. 

MRS.  CHAS.  SCHWARZ. 


—  52  — 

Strawberry  Salad. 

1  head  of  lettuce;  1  qt.  large  strawberries;  10 
slices  canned  pineapple;  %  cup  of  chopped  nuts;  % 
cup  of  cream;  1  doz.  marshmallows  and  the  pineapple 
dressing. 

Wash  lettuce  and  crisp  in  ice  water.  AVash  and 
liull  berries;  let  stand  in  ice-box  until  cold.  Arrange 
lettuce  on  individual  plates,  placing  a  slice  of  pinc- 
ajjple  in  the  center  of  each.  Cover  pineapple  with 
berries,  top  with  pineapple  dressing  and  garnish  with 
nuts,  or  a  large  strawberry  on  top  of  each  dish. 

PINEAPPLE  DRESSING:  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
pineapple  juice ;  3  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  1 
level  tablespoonful  of  butter;  2  beaten  eggs;  1  level 
tablespoonful    of   cornstarch. 

Mix  all  ingredients  carefully  and  cook  over  boiling 
w^ater,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  smooth 
and  begins  to  thicken.  At  serving  time  add  %  cup  of 
Avhipped  cream,  mixed  with  the  finely  chopped  pecans 
and  marshmalloAvs. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 

Salmon  Salad. 

1  can  salmon;  2  sw^eet  peppers;  2  cabbage  leaves; 
4  pickles ;  1  large  apple ;  2  hard  boiled  eggs ;  i/^  tea- 
spoon salt;  14  teaspoon  black  pepper;  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  melted;  y^  cup  vinegar. 

Slice  cabbage,  sweet  peppers,  pickles  and  apples 
very  fine,  dice  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper,  but- 
ter and  vinegar ;  pour  over  salmon  and  mix  well. 

MRS.   I).   A.   RILEY. 


—  53  — 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

1/^  teaspoon  sugar ;  I/2  teaspoon  mustard ;  i/^ 
teaspoon  salt;  ^/4  teaspoon  cayenne;  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  butter;  4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar;  1  cup  whipped 
cream ;  3  yolks   of  eggs. 

Mix  seasoning  with  butter  melted,  add  eggs  and 
vinegar,  boil  in  a  pan  of  water  until  thick;  when 
cold,  add  cup  of  cream. 

MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 

Fruit  Salad. 

1  grape  fruit ;  3  oranges ;  3  slices  pineapple ;  12 
marshmallows ;  l^  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats;  1  apple. 

MISS  OLGA  VON  HAG  EN. 

Salad. 

1  can  salmon;  4  sour  pickles,  chopped  fine;  3  hard 
boiled  eggs;  1  level  teaspoon  mustard;  1  tablespoon 
sugar;  1'  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  cream  or 
milk ;     6  tablespoons  vinegar ;  1  raw  egg. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOTIRSUND. 

Tomato  Aspic  Salad. 
Dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  i/^  cupful 
of  cold  water.  Turn  the  contents  of  a  can  of  to- 
matoes or  1/2  dozen  fresh  tomotoes  into  a  porcelain 
lined  sauce-pan;  add  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  all- 
spice, 2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  14  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper,  add  salt  to  taste.  Cook  about  20  minutes, 
strain,  and  again  put  on  the  fire  to  boil.  Mix  with 
the  soaked  gelatine.    Turn  into  molds  and  set  on  ice. 

MRS.  FELIX  KLAERNER. 


-  54  - 

Veg-etable  Salad. 

6  potatoes;  3  tablespoonfuls  pickles;  2  apples; 
1  green  pepper;  1/2  head  cabbage;  2  onions;  3  egg 
yolks;  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

DRESSING:  1'  teaspoonful  celery  seed;  a  pinch 
of  pepper;  1/0  cupful  vinegar;  1/2  teaspoonful  Wor- 
cestershire Sauce;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  14  cupful  sugar; 
1  tablespoonful  butter;  2  egg  yolks. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  slice  thin,  chop  cabbage,  pickles, 
onions  and  apples.  Boil  eggs  hard,  chop  fine,  cut 
pepper  fine,  and  mix  all  ingredients.  Heat  butter  and 
vinegar;  add  other  ingredients,  let  them  come  to  a 
boil ;  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  until  it  thickens 
and  remove  from  fire.  Cool,  and  when  the  salad  is 
ready  to  serve,  mix  with  the  dressing. 

MRS.  AUG.  GOLD. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

2  eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice;  I/2  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
1  cup  of  sweet  cream;  14  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  Yo 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Beat  the  sugar,  egg,  butter  and  lemon  juice  to- 
gether until  very  light.  Cook  over  hot  water  until 
mixture  thickens.  Cool,  then  add  salt,  vanilla  and 
cream  which  has  been  whipped  till  stiff. 

Serve  cold  on  any  fruit  salad. 

MRS.   EMIL  RILEY. 


55 


Salad  Dressing'. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  1  tablespoonM  of 
flour;  1  cup  SAveet  milk;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt;     V2  cup  of  vinegar. 

Mix  flour  and  butter,  when  melted,  add  sweet 
milk,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  mustard,  sugar,  salt, 
vinegar,  and  eggs;  add  the  milk  and  let  boil  until 
thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  well  for  a  few 
minutes. 

MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 

Cooked  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

1  large  tablespoon  of  butter;  4  egg  yolks;  1  cup 
of  vinegar  (about  half  water)  ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
mustard  (mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  water) ; 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  salt  to  taste;  1  cup  of 
cream. 

Beat  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  mustard  and  vinegar  to- 
gether. Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool 
and  add  salt  and  cream. 

MRS.  EMIL  RILEY, 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  (Without  Oil.) 

2  eggs;  butter,  size  of  an  egg;  1  tablespoon  mixed 
mustard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar; 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

Beat  eggs,  add  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  beat  again 

and    add   melted   butter    and   vinegar.     Set   bowl   over 

boiling    water    and    stir    constantly    until      thick    and 

smooth.     When  cold,  add  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BX^SENBERGER. 


—  56  — 

Mayonnaise  Dressing^. 
Have  dishes  and  ingredients  very  cold.  In  sum- 
mer set  dish  in  pan  of  crushed  ice.  In  soup-plate  or 
shallow  bowl  put  yolk  of  1  raw  egg,  add  14  teaspoon- 
ful  salt  and  a  dash  cayenne,  stir  with  fork  till  very 
thick.  Add  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil  and  stir;  add  more 
oil,  few  drops  at  a  time  until  mixture  balls  on  fork. 
Thin  with  few  drops  lemon  juice,  then  add  more  oil. 
Alternate  in  this  way  until  1  cup  olive  oil  is  used  and 
dressing  is  thick  and  glossy  like  jelly.  About  3 
tablespoons  lemon  juice  will  be  needed.  Always  stir 
in  the  same  direction.  Keep  covered  and  on  ice  until 
needed. 

MRS.  J.  A.  SCHLEYER. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  for  Pressed  Chicken. 

3  eggs  well  beaten;  1/0  cup  of  sugar;  y^  teaspoon 
of  black  pepper;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  i/o 
teaspoonful  of  mustard ;  1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil ; 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter;     1  cup  of  vinegar. 

Boil    thick. 

MRS.    LOUIS   DIETZ. 

Simple   Salad   Dressing. 

Butter,  size  of  walnut;  2  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
1  teaspoon  mustard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch;    2  eggs;     1  teacup  mild  vinegar. 

Mix  butter,  cornstarch,  mustard  and  salt  together; 
add  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  cook  until  thick  in  double 
boiling  pan  and  add  vinegar  last.  Thin  with  cream 
when  Avanted  for  use. 

BEI.LE   STEBBINS. 


—  57  — 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beat  with  a  fork,  then 
take  i/o  cup  of  good  fresh  olive  oil,  add  only  1  drop 
at  a  time,  beat  continually  until  all  the  oil  is  used, 
then  add  salt  to  taste,  also  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  then  add  1  cupful  of  whipped 
cream  and  a  little  sugar,  mustard  may  also  be  added. 

All   ingredients   should   be  ice-cold  before   making. 

This  is  a  dressing  for  any  salad.  Cream  should 
not  be  added  untl  the  dressing  is  used.  Will  keep  a 
week  on  ice.  If  olives  are  added  this  dressing  )nakes 
a  splendid  filling  for  sandwiches. 

MISS   MARY   STEIN. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing. 

One  cupful  Mayonnaise  dressing  with  one  half  cup- 
ful of  whipped  cream.  Add  a  small  amount  of  Tarra- 
gon vinegar,  i^  teaspoonful  of  Imperial  sauce  or  Chile 
sauce,  one  hard  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine ;  one  chopped 
green  pepper  and  one  chopped  pimento.  Mix  well 
together  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  one  lemon  over  the 
mixture  and  serve  on  any  green  salad  leaves. 

MARY  LOVE. 


—  58  — 

PUDDINGS. 


Egg  Lemonade. 

1  egg;  1|3  cup  crushed  ice;  1|3  cup  water;  2 
tablespoonfuls  lemon  syrup. 

Beat  egg  until  light  and  foamy,  add  lemon  syrup, 
water    and    ice;    stir    carefully. 

IRMA  HEYLAND. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Stew  Yo  doz.  apples  with  V2  cup  sugar  and  pour 
in  pudding  dish. 

Make  custard  of  1  qt.  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  yo 
cup  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  flour;  pour  this  over 
the   apples. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
a  little  sugar,  pour  on  custard;  place  in  oven  for  a 
few  moments  to  brown. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUTIGAM. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Soak  2  cups  bread  crumbs  in  4  cups  hot  milk, 
then  mash  well  with  a  wire  potato  masher.  Beat  2 
eggs  with  2|3  cup  sugar  and  14  teaspoon  salt.  Add 
the  milk  and  bread  to  this;  then  flavor  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla  and  2  teaspoons  of  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  or  cook  in  a  steamer  until  firm 
(about   14   hour),  serve  hot  with  sauce. 

E.   LOUDON. 


-  59  - 

Cocoanut  Custard. 

1  cup  cocoanut;  i/^  lb.  powdered  sugar;  1  quart 
milk;  6  eggs  beaten;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  2  teaspoons 
vanilla. 

Boil  the  milk,  whip  in  gradually  the  beaten  eggs. 
When  nearly  cold  add  cocoanut,  pour  in  paste  shells. 

Bake  20  minutes. 

MRS.   EMIL   WEBER. 

Frozen  Banana  Pudding. 

Four  bananas;  1  heaping  teaspoon  powdered 
gelatine;  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls 
boiling  water;  3  cups  milk;  1  cup  wliipped  cream; 
3   eggs. 

Put  the  gelatine  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  the  eggs, 
water,  sugar  and  milk;  stir  until  they  thicken,  then 
cool,  and  add  the  bananas  rubbed  through  a  sieve  and 
the  whipped  cream. 

Freeze   and  serve   with  cherries   on  top. 

MRS.  JOHN  KELLER. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Peel  and  slice  4  large  oranges,  put  in  pudding  pan 
and  sprinkle  with  1  cup  of  sugar. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  1  quart  milk;  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  well  beaten;  i/^  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch.  When  cool  pour  over  oranges;  Over  this 
spread  the  Avhites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls sugar,  place  in  oven  and  brown. 

MRS.   H.   CORDES. 


Christmas  Puddingy. 

1/2  lb.  stale  bread  crumbs;  1  cup  scalded  milk; 
2|3  cup  sugar;  5  eggs;  11^  cups  raisins;  2|3  cup 
currants;  lA  cup  pecans  or  walnuts;  y2  cup  citron; 
1/2  lb.  suet;  l^  cup  brandy;  V2  nutmeg;  %  teaspoon 
cinnamon;     %  teaspoon  mace;     IY2  teaspoons  salt. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk.  Add  the  sugar,  the 
well  beaten  eggs,  the  raisins  (seeded,  cut  in  pieces, 
and  dredged  in  flour)  currants,  pecans,  citron  (cut  in 
strips),  and  the  chopped  suet.  When  thoroughly 
blended  add  the  brandy,  salt,  and  spices.  Turn  into 
buttered  mold  and  steam  or  boil  six  hours.  Serve 
with    foamy    sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce. 

1/2  (?up  butter;  1  cup  powdered  sugar;  whites  of 
2  eggs;     Yo  cup  rich  whipped  cream;    salt. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Put  over  hot  water,  add 
beaten  whites,  and  beat  until  well  blended.  Cool,  add 
a  little  salt,  and  the  whipped  cream.     Then  beat  again. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Date  Jelly. 

Take  a  package  of  good  dates,  remove  the  pits 
and  fill  with  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans;  pour  1  to  2 
pints  strawberry  gelatine  into  a  mold  and  when  it 
begins  to  harden,  repeat  the  process  using  in  all  1'  pt. 
orange  and  1  pt.  strawberry  gelatine.  Place  on  ice 
until  perfectly  firm.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  JOHN  KELLER. 


—  61  — 

Maltese   Rice. 

1  cup  large  grained  rice;  2  or  3  lemons,  grated 
rind  of  one;  i/^  cup  sugar  or  more  according  to  taste; 
2    cups    water. 

Make  a  rich  lemonade,  adding  by  way  of  flavor- 
ing a  tablespoonful  of  rum  or  brandy.  Swell  rice  in 
6  cups  water  in  a  double-boiler  or  oven;  never  use 
salt  in  the  preparation  of  this  dish. 

Pour  lemonade  over  rice  allowing  same  to  boil  up 
once  in  the  mixture,  pour  in  mold  and  set  to  cool.  May 
be  improved  by  adding  chopped  almonds.  Orange 
juice  or  pineapple  in  addition  to  the  lemon  makes  a 
rich   and  delicious  dessert. 

MRS.    H.    GOLDSCHMIDT. 

Marshmallow  Pudding. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  right  stiff;  add  %  cup 
of  sugar.  Dissolve  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  1/4  cup 
of  cold  water,  add  14  cup  boiling  water,  add  this  a 
little  at  the  time  to  the  eggs,  while  beating,  flavor  to 
suit  taste.  To  half  of  froth  add  a  little  fruit  coloring 
and  sprinkle  with  pecans  or  any  fruit.  Put  the  white 
froth  on  top.  Set  on  ice  to  harden.  Serve  with 
cream. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER. 

MISS  BERTHA  OCHS. 


—  62  — 

PASTRY,  PIES,  TARTS. 


Pie  Crust. 

1  cupful  flour;  5  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  butter; 
1/2  teaspoonful  salt;     about  2  tablespoonfuls  water. 

Sift  flour,  mix  in  lard,  then  cold  water;  place 
dough  on  board  and  roll  out  from  center,  using  a 
light  motion.     This  will  make  two  crusts. 

MISS  MARY   STEIN. 

Pie  Crust. 

%  cup  of  lard;  ^2  cup  of  water;  2  cups  of  flour; 
I/O  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Always  in  adding  the  filler  in  a  pie,  let  the  crust 
be    thoroughly    cool. 

MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 

Schaum-Torte.     (Pastry.) 

1  cup  cream;  flour  sufficient  to  handle;  14  cup 
water;  pinch  salt  (mix  well). 

Roll  out  1/^  in.  thick  in  platter  spread  with  butter, 
fold  over  and  roll  out  again.  Repeat  this  once  more. 
Bake    in    deep    dish. 

"When  cold  spread  jelly  over  and  cover  with 
whipped  cream. 

In  place  of  whipped  cream  an  extra  sweet  meringue 
may  be  used. 

MARIE   GESSLER. 


=-.;-^.:-.:,;,-.  —  68  — 

Banana  Pie. 

1  qt.  Bwect  milk;  4  eggs;  %  cup  sugar;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cornstarch. 

Cook  the  milk,  sugar,  cornstarch  and  yolks  of  eggs 
till  thick;  after  crust  is  baked  fill  with  sliced  bananas; 
pour  the  custard  over  this.  Beat  the  whites  with  6 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  spread  on  top  of  pie,  and  bake 
to  a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  H.  COBDES. 

Apple  Pie. 

%  cup  cream;  1  egg;  6  boiled  apples;  1  teaspoon 
vanilla;     butter  size  of  a  walnut;  sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  sugar,  cream,  flavoring,  and  egg. 

Place  apples  on  crust,  pour  liquid  over,  dab  with 
bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.   I.   GLATZLE. 

Banana  Pie. 

FILLING:  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  i/^  cup  of  sugar; 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  2  yolks  of  eggs;  2  tablespoons 
of  flour. 

Cook    together    in    double    boiler    until    thick. 

PIE  CRUST:  1  cupful  of  flour;  2  tablespoons  ice 
Avater;     4  level  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

Bake  crust.  Cover  with  layer  of  sliced  bananas 
and  put  in  the  filling.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  two 
eggs,  adding  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Place  on  top 
and  brown  in  the  oven, 

MARY  LOVE. 


—  64  — 

Apple  Cream  Pie. 

To  2  cups  of  stewed  and  mashed  apples  add  % 
cup  sugar,  put  ou  crust  and  bake.  When  cold  pour 
over  it  1  cup  of  sweet  cream  Avhipped  with  3  table- 
spoonfuls    sugar. 

MRS.  H.   CORDES. 

Buttermilk  Pie. 

1  cup  buttermilk ;  2  eggs ;  %  cup  sugar ;  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch;  juice  and  rind  of  i/o  lemon. 

Mix,  pour  in  crust  and  bake.  When  done  spread 
with  eggwhites  beaten  with  3  tablespoons  sugar ;  set  in 
oven   to   brown, 

MRS.  H.   CORDES. 

Chocolate   Pie. 

2  cups  of  milk;  1  cup  of  sugar;  yolks  of  3  eggs; 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa ; 
1   teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Boil  until  thick  and  smooth.  Bake  crust  and  fill. 
Beat  Avhites  of  eggs,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Brown. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Cream  Pie. 

Mj  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons 
flour;  2  well  beaten  eggs;  2  cups  rich  milk;  2  tea- 
spoons   orange    extract. 

Beat  to  a  cream  and  bake  with  under  crust  only. 

MRS.   MOURSUND. 


65 


Blackberry  Short   Cake. 

1'  qt.  of  flour;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  2  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter; 
1  pt.  of  milk. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together, 
mix  in  the  butter  cold,  add  the  milk  and  mix  into  a 
smooth  dough,  just  soft  enough  to  handle.  Divide  in 
two,  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick  to  size  of  pie  plate. 
Brush  first  layer  with  melted  butter  and  lay  on  greased 
pie  plate.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes,  separate 
the  cakes  without  cutting. 

Put  one  quart  of  blackberries  in  earthen  bowl, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  crush  slightly  and  spread  on  cut 
side  of  hot  short  cake.  Put  on  the  other  cake. 
Spread  top  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  with  a  little 
sugar  and  flavored  M'ith  vanilla.  Garnish  the  top  with 
whole  blackberries. 

OLGA  KLINGELHOEFER. 

Cream  Cheese  Pie. 

1  soup  plate  cream  cheese;  ^^  cup  sugar;  1  cup 
currants;  3  eggs;     1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Smooth  cheese  with  mixing  spoon,  adding  cream  or 
milk  if  too  dry.  Stir  in  sugar,  currants,  flavoring, 
the  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg. 
Fill  into  pie  crust  and  bake.  Reserve  remaining  whites 
of  egg  for  meringue. 

If  pie  is  preferred  without  meringue,  sprinkle  with 
sugar    and    cinnamon. 

MRS.   H.   GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  66  — 

Lemon  Pie. 

2  small  cups  sugar;  6  level  tablespoonfuls  flour; 
2  lemons;        1   orange;     6   eggs;   2   cups   of   water. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  crust.  Mix  the  flour 
Avith  sugar,  grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  half  the 
rind  of  the  orange,  use  juice  of  all  three,  mix  well 
with  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  well  and 
add  the  water,  fill  the  pie  crust  and  bake  till  thick 
custard. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one 
half  cup  sugar,  beat  stiff  ,spread  on  pie,  set  in  oven 
again,    and   bake    till   light   brown. 

This    makes    two    pies. 

MISS    ANNA    GOLD. 

Cream  Pie. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs;  1  teasi^oon  butter;  1  pt.  sugar; 
1  pint  rich  cream;  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Custard  Pie. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs ;  6  t-ablespoons  sugar ;  2  cups  milk ; 
1  teaspoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

Cocoanut   Pie. 

1  pint  milk ;  3  eggs ;  yo  cup  cocoanut ;  1  teaspoon 
cornstarch. 

Bake  in  a  rich  pie   crust. 

MRS.    A.    KUENEMANN. 


—  67  — 

Jelly  Pie. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar;     1   large   egg;     l^   cupful  of  jelly  or  jam. 

Make  a  crust  of  biscuit  dough,  line  pie  tin  and 
place  in  oven  long  enough  to  dry  on  top.  Pour  in 
the  filling  and  bake  (without  an  upper  crust)  in  a 
hot  oven  to  a  dark  brown. 

MRS.   F.   STEIN. 

Lemon  Pie. 

2  eggs;  juice  and  rind  of  y^  lemon;  1  tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch ;  6  tablespoonfuls  water ;  6  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  sugar,  lemon,  starch,  butter  and  water,  pour 
over   crust   and  bake. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  with  the  rest  of 
the  sugar,  spread  on  pie  when  done,  put  back  in  oven 
till  a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Lemon  Pie. 

1  cup  water;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablspoonfuls  flour; 
4   eggs ;     juice    of   1   lemon. 

Boil  together  sugar,  water,  flour  and  lemon  juice ; 
when    cold   add   yolks    of   eggs. 

Line  pie  plates  Avith  rich  paste  fill  with  custard 
and  bake. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  a  little  sugar  spread 
over  pies  and  put  back  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown 
nicely. 

MRS.  HY.  BASSE. 


—  68  — 

Summer   Mince   Fie. 

1  cup  of  crushed  crackers;  1  cup  of  boiling  water; 
1  cup  of  molasses;  1'  cup  of  sugar;  i/o  cup  of  vinegar; 
V2  cup  of  melted  butter;  1  large  cup  of  raisins;  1 
teaspoonful  of  allspice;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon; 
14  teaspoon  of  cloves;  14  teaspoon  of  pepper;  1 
small    nutmeg. 

Chop  raisins,  then  add  all  ingredients,  water  and 
vinegar   last.     Bake   between   two    crusts. 

MRS.  BERTHA  NAUWALD. 

Mince  Meat. 

1  cup  of  cooked  meat;  li/o  cups  of  raisins;  3 
cups  of  raw  apples;  ly^  cups  of  currants;  ly^  cups 
of  brown  sugar;  I/2  cup  of  molasses;  1  cup  of  meat 
stock;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon; 1/4  teaspoonful  of  mace;  ^  teaspoonful  of 
cloves;  1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice);  1  cup  of 
citron;  2  cups  of  good  cider  or  wine,  (cider  pre- 
ferred);    1/0  cup  of  suet;     1/2  cup  of  good  brandy. 

Put  the  meat  (about  1  lb.)  in  plenty  of  water  to 
cover,  simmer  for  two  hours.  Boil  the  stock  down  to 
one  cup.  Put  the  meat,  citron,  apple  and  suet  through 
a  food  chopper  coarse  or  fine  as  wanted.  Mix  all 
together  and  cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  the  raisins 
and  apples  are  soft.  Remove  from  fire,  add  I/2  cup 
of  good  brandy,  put  in  jars  and  use  as  needed. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

MRS.  BERTHA  NAUWALD. 


—  69  — 

Pecan  Custard  Pie. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  watei*;  butter  size  of  an 
egg;  4  eggs;  2  teaspooufuls  of  cornstarch;  1  cup  of 
cream  or  rich  milk;  1^2  cups  finelj^  chopped  pecans: 
vanilla  to  suit  taste. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  thick  syrup,  to  this  add 
the  butter.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  four  eggs,  add  corn- 
starch and  milk  or  cream.  To  this  add  the  syrup,  place 
on  the  stove  and  boil  till  it  thickens.  Add  flavor  and 
pecans.  Pour  into  baked  crust.  Make  icing  of  whites, 
spread  on  top,  put  in  oven  until  browned. 

MRS.   WECK   MEARS, 

Menard,  Texas. 

Molasses    Pie. 

1  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  y^  cup  molasses; 
1/^   cup  rich  cream;     yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Mix  well  and  cook  until  a  thick  cream,  fill  baked 
crust.  Spread  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  with   I/2  cup  sugar,  and  brown  lightly. 

MRS.   MOURSUND. 

Sand  Tarts. 

2  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  one;  2  cups  sugar; 
1  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour. 

j\Iix  in  the  usual  manner,  roll  out  thin,  cut  out  with 
a  doughnut-cutter,  spread  with  the  white  of  one  egg, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  place  an  almond 
or  raisin  in  the  centre  of  each  cake.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

MISS  BERTHA  PRIESS. 


—  to  — 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

4  eggs ;  1  quart  of  pumpkin,  strained ;  3  cups  sugar ; 

1  teaspoonful  of  ginger;  3  pints  milk;  4  teaspoonfuls 
of  cinnamon. 

Boil  pumpkin  ,strain,  add  sugar,  milk  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  spices;  beat  together  thoroughly  and  put  in 
pie  crust  and  bake. 

Then  have  ready  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff 
with  I/O  cup  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  set  in  oven  to  bake 
a  light  brown. 

For  pie  crust  use :  2  cups  flour ;  4  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls lard,  and  a  little  salt. 

Rub  lard  in  flour  well  and  add  cold  water  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  thin  and  line  your  pie- 
pans.    This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 

MISS   ALVINA    GOLD. 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie.    No.  1. 

3  cups  stewed  and  strained  pumpkins ;  2  cups  milk ; 

2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  y^  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon 
salt;  pinch  cloves. 

Line  2  pieplates  with  crust  as  for  custard  pie  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 

Pumpkin  Pie.  No.  2. 

1  pint  cooked  pumpkin;  4  eggs;  1  pint  sweet  rich 
milk;  2  cups  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon;  1  table- 
spoonful  nutmeg;  1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

Beat  well  and  pour  into  pie  tins  lined  with  good 
crust. 


—  71  — 

Pecan  Pie. 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  flour; 
V2  cup  chopped  pecans;  3  eggs. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  milk,  eggs  well  beaten  and 
pecans. 

PIE-CRUST :  3  cups  flour ;  Y^  teaspoon  salt ;  1  cup 
lard;  ice-water. 

Rub  lard  thru  flour;  mix  in  the  ice-water,  add  salt. 
Handle  as  little  as  possible,  roll  thin,  lop  over,  and  roll 
again.  Fill  crust  and  bake  until  nearly  done,  cover  with 
meringue,  set  back  in  oven  to  brown,  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts. 

AITGUSTE  SAGEBIEL. 

Orange  Pie. 

1  cupful  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls  flour;  3  oranges. 
Slice  oranges  on  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  flour 
mixed,  and  bake. 

IRMA   HEYLAND. 

Berry  Muflans. 

1/4  cupful  of  butter;  1|3  cupful  of  sugar;  1  egg; 
2  1|3  cupfuls  of  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
Yo  teaspoonful  of  salt;  1  cupful  of  milk;  1  cupful  of 
berries;  1|3  cupful  of  flour. 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar  and  well 
beaten  egg.  Mix  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture;  then  add 
the  berries  rolled  in  one-third  cupful  of  flour.  Fill  hot 
buttered  gem  pans  two-thirds  full.  Bake  twenty-five 
minutes. 

OLGA  KLINGELHOEFER. 


72 


BREAD,  COFFEE  CAKE  AND 
DOUGHNUTS. 


Bread. 

1  qt.  buttermilk;   Yo  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  salt; 

1  small  cup  mashed  potatoes;  1  yeast  cake;  flour;  1  pt. 
warm  water. 

Scald  the  buttermilk  and  while  hot,  add  the  sugar, 
salt  and  potatoes.  When  cool  add  the  jeast  previously 
soaked  in  warm  water.  Let  stand  twelve  or  eighteen 
hours  before  using.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter 
and  let  rise.  If  more  bread  is  Avanted  when  making  up 
add  some  water  and  salt.  Let  rise  once  or  twice.  Be 
sure  and  work  well. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Light  Bread. 
1  yeast  cake  to  3  loaves;  1  qt.  luke-warm  Avater;  2 
teaspoons  salt,  tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  lard; 

2  qts.    flour. 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  i/o  Qt.  warm  water,  adding 
sugar  and  i^  sieve  flour;  beat  well  and  let  stand  over 
night  in  a  Avarm  place  to  rise.  Next  morning  add  salt, 
about  Y2  qt.  water,  melted  lard  and  enough  flour  to  form 
stiff  dough.  Set  aside  again  to  rise,  then  form  into 
loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Glaze 
with  hot  water  or  lard. 

MIENA  THIERS. 


—  78  — 

Brown   Bread. 

%  cup  No.  6  molasses;  2  cups  graham  flour;  1 
cup  sweet  milk ;  2  level  teaspoons  soda  in  syrup ;  pinch 
of  salt;     1  cup  seeded  raisins. 

Put  in  large  baking  powder  can,  set  in  bucket  of 
water,  cover  and  steam  3  hours, 

MISS   ADA   PEDEN. 

Nut  Bread. 

1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  nuts;  i/^  cup  sweet  milk;  1 
egg;     4  teaspoons  baking  powder;  4  cups  flour. 

Stir  and  put  in  pan  to  rise,  let  stand  20  minutes. 
It  will  about  double  itself.  Put  in  moderate  oven  and 
bake  1  hour. 

MISS   ADA   PEDEN. 

Buttermilk  Yeast  Cakes. 

Dissolve  1  yeast  cake  in  1  pint  of  warm  water, 
add  1  tablespoonful  each  of  corn  meal  and  sugar  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt.     Let  stand  over  night. 

In  the  morning  boil  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  have 
ready  1  cup  of  flour  and  water,  mixed  to  a  smooth, 
stiff  batter;  pour  this  into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  it 
cook  thoroughly,  stirring  constantly.  When  cool  add 
to  the  yeast  cake  mixture  which  has  stood  over  night 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  ferments.  Then 
work  in  corn  meal  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff 
dough,  mold  into  cakes  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

MRS,  JACOB  GOLD,  SR. 


—  74  — 

Yeast  Cakes. 

3  large  Irish  potatoes;  II/2  tablespoonfuls  of  hops; 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  I/2  tablespoonful  of  ginger; 
cornnieal;  li/^  qts.  of  water;  1  cup  of  flour;  1  cup 
of  dissolved  yeast;     small  handful  of  salt. 

Peel  tlie  potatoes  and  cook  with  the  hops,  (tied 
in  a  cloth)  in  about  1^  qts.  of  water.  Mash  the 
potatoes,  and  when  cool  pour  the  potato  water  over 
the  cup  of  flour.  Next  add  the  dissolved  yeast,  sugar, 
salt,  ginger,  and  the  mashed  potatoes.  Mix  Avell,  and 
add  cornmeal  enough  to  stiffen.  Ijet  rise,  then  shape 
in    bulk,    and    cut    oblong    cakes. 

MRS.  WM.  WEYRICH. 

Biscuits. 
1    qt.    of   flour;    1    tablespoonful    of    salt;      1    tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder;     1  large  spoonful  of  but- 
ter or  lard;  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda;  about   V2   Qt. 
of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk. 

These  biscuits  must  be   quickly  made,  not  worked. 

MRS.    P.    ROEDER. 

Biscuits. 
3    cups    flour;      2    heaping      teaspoonfuls      baking 
powder;     i/o   teaspoonful  salt;     3   tablespoonfuls   lard; 
Yo    teaspoonful    soda,    dissolved    in    a    cup    of   sour    or 
buttermilk.      Use    more    milk    if   necessary. 
Roll   out,   cut,   and  bake   in  a  hot  oven. 

MRS.   LOUIS   DIETZ. 


—  75  — 

Com  Bread. 

2  cups  corn-meal;  3  eggs;  2  cups  boiling  water; 
2  cups  sour  milk;  2  tablespoonfuls  lard;  1  teaspoon- 
ful  soda. 

Scald  corn  meal  with  boiling  water  and  mix  in 
other   ingredients. 

MRS.   H.   CORDES. 

Com  Bread. 

2  cups  of  sifted  meal;  y^  cup  of  flour;  2  cups  of 
buttermilk  or  sour  milk;  2  eggs;  1|3  cup  of  sugar; 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter. 

Mix  the  meal  and  flour  smoothly  and  gradually 
add  the  milk,  then  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt,  then  the 
beaten  eggs  and  lastly  dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
baking  soda  in  a  little  milk  and  beat  thoroughly  to- 
gether. Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  recipe  can  be 
made  with  SAveet  milk  by  using  baking  powder. 

MRS.   W.  J.   JUNG. 

German  Coffee  Cake. 

lyo  lbs.  flour;  14  lb.  sugar;  y^  lb.  butter;  1 
cup  raisins;  5  eggs;  1  pt.  yeast;  grated  lemon  to 
flavor. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  well  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  well  risen  make  in  loaves, 
put  in  well  greased  pans  and  let  rise  again;  then  bake 
in  moderate   oven. 

MRS.  M.  PUHL. 


—  76  — 

Rolls. 

1/2  cup  butter;  1  small  cup  sugar;  3  cups  flour, 
sifted  twice  with  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
poAvder;     1/2  cup  milk;     rind  of  1  lemon. 

Cream  butter,  eggs  and  sugar;  add  flour,  tlieu 
milk.     Form  into  small  rolls  and  paint  with  beaten  egg. 

MRS.  I.  GLATZLE. 

Plain  Coffee  Cake. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  melted 
butter ;  2  eggs ;  ^  cup  milk ;  1  cup  raisins,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  dough.  At  night 
set  one  yeast  cake  with  a  puit  of  water  and  %  sieve 
flour  at  about  10  o'clock  and  let  rise  until  morning; 
add  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  eggs,  butter  and  milk,  beat- 
ing well  all  the  while.  Then  add  flour.  Set  aside  to 
rise,  when  risen  to  double  its  size  beat  down,  put  in 
raisins.  Let  rise  again  to  former  height,  brush  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
This  quantity  will  yield  one  large  or  two  medium 
loaves. 

MES.  ROBERT  BLUM. 

Dougfhnuts. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  salt ;  i  cup  milk ;  1 
teaspoon  grated  orange  peel;  2  eggs;  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder;     1   tablespoon  butter. 

Mix  with  flour  like  soft  bread  dough,  roll  out  one 
inch  thick,  cut  out  into  rings,  let  rise  until  light,  then 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

IDA  HENNERSDORF. 


—  77  — 

Doug-hnuts. 

114  cups  yeast;  1/0  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  II/2  cups 
sugar;  1  cup  milk;  1'  teaspoonful  lemon  extract; 
flour   enough  to   make   a  soft  dough. 

Let  rise,  roll  out  and  fry  in  smoking    hot  lard. 
MRS.   RICHARD  HENKE. 

Doughnuts. 

2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  1  pt.  milk;  1  teaspoon 
salt;  1  qt.  flour;  1  grated  nutmeg;  3  teaspoonfuls 
Royal  Baking   Powder. 

Beat  well  both  sugar  and  eggs,  add  milk  and 
flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  measured. 
Flour  must  be  added  until  the  dough  can  be  handled. 
Roll  out  y^  inch  thick,  cut  in  rings  or  small  balls  and 
fry  a  rich  golden  brown  in  a  deep  kettle  of  smoking 
hot   fat. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 

Doug-hnuts. 

8  eggs;  3  tablespoons  lard;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg; 
114  cups  sour  cream;  1  1|3  cups  sugar;  5  cups  flour; 
2    teaspoons    salt;      1^^    teaspoons    soda. 

Beat  whole  eggs  very  lightly,  add  sugar  gradually, 
beating  constantly,  add  lard  and  continue  beating. 
Mix  and  sift  flour,  nutmeg,  salt  and  soda.  Add 
flour  and  sour  cream  alternately.  Chill  dough,  then 
toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  roll  1/0  ii^ch  thick 
and  fry  in  deep  lard. 

MRS.  AUG.   GOLD. 


78  - 


Doughnuts. 

1  cup  sugar;  2  eggs;  1/2  cup  milk;  1  sifter 
flour;  1/^  cup  sour  cream;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder. 

Cut  with   biscuit  cutter   and  fry  in   deep   lard. 

MRS.   A.   STAATS. 

Love  Knots. 

Yo  cup  well  beaten  eggs;  i/^  cup  sweet  cream; 
beat  together,  and  mix  stiff  with  flour,  roll  out  very 
thin,  then  cut  in  two  inch  squares.  These  cut  in  five 
strips,  but  not  quite  through,  leave  the  sides  together. 
Then  take  in  hand,  slip  each  strip  under  the  other, 
when  last  one  in  hand,  drop  carefully  into  hot  lard 
and  bake  a  rich  golden  brown,  take  out  and  sprinkle 
with    powdered    sugar. 

MRS.    F.    STEIN. 


—  79  — 

COOKIES. 

Anise   Seed   Cookies. 

1/2  lb.  sugar;  i^  lb.  flour;  4  eggs;  1  table- 
spoon anise  seed. 

Drop  in  pan  with  teaspoon, 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,  SR. 

Almond  Cookies. 
(Mandel    -    Kraenze.) 

%  lb.  butter,  creamed;  8  yolks  of  eggs;  i/^  lb. 
sugar;     1   lb.   flour. 

Cut  with  large  round  cutter  and  take  out  center 
with  a  smaller  one  leaving  a  circular  cookie.  Brush 
these  with  white  of  eggs  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  a  golden 
yellow   in  a   moderate   oven. 

MRS.    ROEHM. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Vi  cup  butter;     1  cup  flour;     1  cup  water;  3  eggs. 

Let  butter  and  water  come  to  a  boil;  while  boiling 
stir  in  the  flour;  stir  until  a  smooth  paste.  When 
cool  work  in  the  eggs.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  30  minutes. 

FILLING:  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  i/^  cup  sugar; 
thicken   with   corn   starch,     flavor   with  vanilla. 

MRS.  M.  PITHL. 


-  6()  - 

Brown  Cookies. 
4  eggs;     1   cup  butter;     3  cups  brown   sugar;     2 
cups    raisins;      2    cups    currants;      1'    cup    pecans;      6 
cups    of    flour;     4    tablespoons    sweet    milk,    in    which 
dissolve  2  small  teaspoons  soda. 
Flavor  to  suit  your  own  taste. 

MISS   CORA   ROEDER. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Take  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cupful 
of  water,  and  put  on  to  boil,  then  dump  into  this  1 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  stir  well  until  it  loosens  from 
the  sides,  then  take  from  fire,  let  cool  off  some,  stir 
in  3  eggs,  one  after  the  other,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
beat  very  thoroughly,  then  let  it  rest  awhile  in  a 
cool  place,  the  ice  box  is  best  in  summer.  Then  drop 
in  small  spoonfuls  in  pans  and  bake  very  tlioroughly, 
or  they  will  fall.  When  cold  cut  open,  and  fill  with 
wliipped    cream    or    custard. 

MISS   MARY   STEIN. 

Cream  Puffs. 

1  cup  water;    1  cup  flour;  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Put  in  saucepan  and  stir  over  fire  until'  it  leaves 

sides    of  pan.     Drop   by   tablespoonfuls     on     buttered 

tins  and  bake  in  quick  oven  25  minutes. 

FILLING :     The   stiffly  beaten  whites   of  one   egg 

mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  Vs  ^^P  whipped 

cream. 

LETTIE    RICHTER. 


—  81'  — 

Cookies  with  Raisins. 

FILLING:  1  cup  sugar;  Yo  cup  lard;  ^2  cup 
sweet  milk;  1  beaten  egg;  Si/o  cups  flour  sifted  with 
3   teaspoonfuls   baking   powder. 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening;  add  slowly  other 
ingredients;  roll  out  thin,  cut  out,  and  place  in  pan. 
Put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  filling  on  each  cookie,  place 
another    cookie    on    top    and   bake. 

For  filling  mix  together  %  cup  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  raisins,  chopped. 
Cook   until   thickened. 

MRS.    C.   F.    TATSCH. 


Cookies. 

5  eggs;  iy2  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter  or 
lard;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flour  to  make 
a   soft   dough. 

Extract  or  spices   for  flavoi-ing. 

IRMA   OCHS. 


Chocolate  Cookies. 

1  cupful  of  sugar;.  2  eggs;  7  tablespoonfals  of 
flour;  1^  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  1  cupful 
of  chopped  pecans;  I/2  cake  sweet  chocolate,  grated; 
salt. 

Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  pinch  of  salt  and  sugar; 
beat  again ;  add  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted, 
chocolate  and  the  pecans.  Drop  little  balls  on  buttered 
pans  and   bake   slowly. 

OLGA   KLINGELHOEFER. 


—  82  — 

Christinas  Cakes. 

1  lb.  flour;     ^2  lb.  sugar;     14  lb.  butter;     4  eggs. 
Sift   flour   and   sugar   together,    rub    in   the    butter 

and  then  the  eggs.     Roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in  squares 
and   bake. 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,  SR. 

Chocolate  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  3  eggs, 
beaten  separately;  2  cups  flour;  1^4  lb.  Bakers  choco- 
late ;   1   cup  pecans ;     1   teaspoon   baking  powder. 

MRS.   WM.   BiERSCHWALE. 

Chocolate  Cookies. 

1  cup  chocolate ;  1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  grated 
cocoanut;  1  cup  sweet  crackers;  2  eggs;  2  table- 
spoonfuls    butter. 

Mix  all  and  drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  tins; 
bake   in   moderate   oven. 

MRS.  H.  KALLENBERG. 

Date    Cookies. 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  %  cup  milk;  1  cup  butter 
or  lard ;  2  cups  oatmeal ;  1  lb.  seeded  dates ;  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  dates  until  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  Roll  out  dough  indicated  above,  cut  with 
cookie  cutter,  spread  one  cookie  with  the  date-paste 
and  cover  with  another  round  of  dough.  Bake  in 
moderate    oven. 

MRS.    OTTO   KOLMEIER. 


—  83  — 

Cocoanut  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  grated  cocoa- 
nut  ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla ;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ; 
flour   enough  to   roll   out   dough. 

Bake     light   broAvn. 

Cocoanut  Cookies. 

V2  cup  butter;  2  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups 
cocoanut ;  2  cups  flour ;  1'  teaspoon  vanilla ;  Yo  tea- 
spoon baking   powder. 

Drop    on   buttered   tins    with   a   teaspoon. 

MISS   OLINDA   OEHLER. 

Date  Kisses. 

The  whites  of  2  eggs;  1  cup  powdered  sugar; 
1  cup  rolled  pecans ;  1  cup  chopped  dates. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Then  stir  in  pecans  and  dates.  Drop  from 
teaspoon  in  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until    delicate    brown. 

MISS  ZULA  MAE  HILL. 

Fruit   Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup 
raisins ;  2  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk ;  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  dissolved  in  the  sour  milk ;  1  teaspoonful  each 
of  nutmeg  and  cloves ;  flour  enough  to  roll. 

MRS.  H.  KALLENBERG. 
MRS.  ALB.  STAATS. 


—  84  — 

Fruit   Cookies. 

1  eupful  of  butter;  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  i/^  cupful 
sweet  milk;  3  cupfuls  of  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  4  eggs;  2  cupfuls  of  currants;  2  of  raisins; 
2  of  pecans;  14  <^^^P  of  orange-peel;  1  wine  glass  of 
whisky  or  wine ;  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon 
and  all  kinds  of  spices. 

Make  up  as  any  cake,  flouring  the  fruit  as  for 
fruit  cake.  Make  a  stiff  batter  which  is  dropped  in 
a  pan  from  spoon  and  baked  just  as  biscuits.  These 
little    cakes    are    delicious. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.   MAIER. 

White  Lebkuchen. 

1  lb.  sugar;  4  eggs;  2  cupfuls  pecans;  14  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves;     1/0  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Stir  sugar  and  eggs  for  one  half  hour  (adding 
one  egg  at  a  time) ;  then  add  cloves,  nutmeg  and 
pecans,  also  flour  enough  to  make  the  dough  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out  and  cut.     Bake  a  light  brown. 

MRS.   W.   J.   JUNG. 


Hermits. 

3  eggs ;  1  cup  butter ;  1%  cups  sugar ;  1  cup 
chopped  raisins;  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  citron; 
1  teaspoon  each  extract  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon; 
a  pinch  of  salt;     a  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Add  flour  enough  to  roll,  cut  into  rounds  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 


85 


Hermits. 

1  cup  of  butter;  IV2  cups  of  sugar;  3 
V2  cup  of  molasses ;  1  teaspoonful  soda ;  1  cup  of 
each,  raisins  and  currants;  1  cup  pecans;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  each,  ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice ;     flour    enough    to    roll    out    soft. 

MRS.   ED.   OEHLER. 

Hermits. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of 
stoned  and  chopped  raisins;  3  eggs;  y^  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  dissolved ;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  1 
nutmeg;  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  cinnamon; 
5  cups  of  flour. 

MRS.  H.  W.  KUSENBERGER. 

Ginger   Snaps. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  egg;  1  cup  molasses;  1  table- 
spoon ginger;  1  cup  butter  or  lard;  1  cup  hot 
water;  1  tablespoon  soda,  dissolved  in  water;  flour 
enough   to   roll   out. 

MRS.    A.    KUENEMANN. 

Macaroons. 

1  lb.  finely  chopped  pecans;  1  lb.  sugar;  un- 
beaten whites  of  4  eggs;  grated  rind  of  I/2  lemon  or 
a  little  cinnamon. 

Mix  the  ingredients,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a 
well   greased   tin   and  bake  in   a  moderate   oven. 

MRS.  CHAS.  NIMITZ. 


—  86  — 

Lebkuchen. 

1  lb.  dark  broAvn  sugar;  l^  gal.  black  molasses 
1|4  lb.  butter;  1|4  lb.  citron;  lj4  glass  whiskey 
11/2  lbs.  of  pecans;  li/o  teaspoonfuls  of  cooking  soda 
1  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice 
grated  rind  of  1'  orange  and  2  lemons ;  ^/^  lb.  of 
flour   to   start. 

Flour,   spices,  peeling  mixed.   Pecans  not   chopped. 

Let  molasses  come  to  a  boil,  melt  in  butter  and 
sugar,  let  this  cool  off,  add  whiskey  and  soda,  pour 
over  dry  part  mixing  quickly  and  add  flour  to  make 
good  stiff  dough.  Let  stand  until  next  day.  Add 
flour  to   roll  out,   bake   and   ice. 

MRS.   ROEHM. 

Pecan  Macaroons. 

1  lb.  of  pecans;  y^  lb.  citron;  %  lb  sugar; 
grated  peel  of  one  orange;  1  nutmeg;  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon ;  whites  of  6  eggs ;  beaten  yolks  of  one ; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  flour  enough  to  make  it 
roll   easily;     1   Avine    glass   brandy. 

Brush   with   yolks   before   baking. 

MRS.    HERMAN    GOLDSCHMIDT. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 
1    cupful    sugar ;      1    cupful    molasses ;      1    cupful 
lard;   3i/^    cupfuls   flour;     4   cupfuls   of  uncooked   oat- 
meal ;     2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

Dissolve  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  lA  cup  boiling 
water.    Mix  well  and  form  small  cookies  with  the  hand. 

MRS.   ALVIN   STRIEGLER. 


—  87  — 

Chocolate  Macaroons. 

12  sweet  crackers;  2  cups  of  sugar;  lOc-cake 
of  chocolate;  2  cups  of  pecans;  whites  of  6  large  or 
7    small    eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  grated 
chocolate,  then  the  finely  chopped  pecans  and  the 
mashed  crackers.  Drop  on  buttered  paper,  with  a 
teaspoon. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 

German    Nut    Cake. 

3^  lb.  butter;  i/o  lb.  sugar;  1  lb.  flour;  yolks 
of    3    eggs. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  egg 
yolks,  lastly  the  flour. 

Roll  out  on  board,  spread  with  the  beaten  whites, 
some  chopped  nut  meats,  cinnamon,  and  sugar.  Cut 
into  squares  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MRS.   R.   L.   KOTT. 

Oatmeal   Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  4  eggs;  ly^  cups  lard;  3  cups 
oatmeal;  3  cups  flour;  %  cups  raisins,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon ;     %  cups  currants ;     1  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.   LOUIS   OEHLER. 


Pecan  Cookies. 

1  lb.  sugar;     1  lb.  ilour;     6  eggs;     1  cup  pecans; 
1    teaspoonful    baking   poAvder. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN. 


Pfeffer-Nuesse. 

(Pepper  Cookies.) 

1  lb.  sugar;  6  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1'  tea- 
spoon cloves;  1  pinch  black  pepper;  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder;     flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 

Cut   out  and  bake   in  moderate   oven. 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,   SR. 

Pfeffer-Nuesse. 

(German  Cookies.) 
4  eggs;     3  cups  flour;     4  teaspoonfuls   cinnamon; 
2  cups  sugar;     1   cup  pecans;     2   teaspoonfuls  cloves; 
2  tablespoons  butter ;    2  nutmeg ;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder. 

MRS.    LOUIS    OEHLER. 

Pecan  Cookies. 

White  of  5  eggs;  I/2  ^^-  of  sugar;  1/0  lb  of 
pecans,  finely  chopped;  1  sweet  cracker  and  a  little 
baking   powder. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
baking  powder,  mixed  with  the  crumbed  cracker,  and 
last  the  pecans.  Drop  from  spoon  on  a  well  greased  pan. 

MRS.    R.    BLmi. 

Pecan   Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  yolks, of  10  eggs;  1  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon ;  2  cups  of  pecans ;  1/2  ^^^P  of  finely 
chopped  citron ;     a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Flour  enough  to  nmke  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in 
pan   with   a  teaspoon. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 


—  89  — 

Pecan  Cookies. 

V2  <^UP  of  pecans;  1  cup  of  sugar;  I14  cups  of 
flour;  1  cake  of  chocolate;  3  large  or  4  small  eggs; 
1  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  spices. 

Bake  in  shallow  long  tins,  w^hen  done  cut  into 
any  shape  desired  and  ice. 

MRS.  GEORGE  WRIGHT. 

Springerle. 

1  lb.  flour;  4  large  eggs;  1  lb.  sugar;  butter  size 
of  a  walnut ;  enough  potash  to  cover  the  point  of  a 
large  knife  blade  twice  (you  may  take  baking  powder 
instead)  and  anise  seed. 

Sift  the  flour  and  sugar.  Then  stir  butter,  sugar 
and  eggs  and  potash  (which  has  been  dissolved  in  a 
little  milk)  for  15  minutes,  then  add  the  flour  as  much 
as  will  make  a  stiff  dough.  Then  roll  out  dough 
until  about  half  as  thick  as  your  finger.  Sprinkle 
with  flour  and  press  the  patterns  on  the  dough,  then 
cut  or  separate  the  cakes  with  a  dough  cutter  and 
place  on  a  board  covered  with  anise  seed,  or  use  anise 
oil.  Keep  in  a  dry  place  over  night  and  the  next 
morning  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  a  light  yellow. 

MRS.  O.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Sugfar  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar;  i/^  cup  lard;  5  eggs;  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder;  flour  enough  to  roll. 

ROSA  DECHEBT. 


—  90  — 

Rock   Cookies. 

li/li  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  Si/o  caps 
flour;  1  cup  pecans;  1  cup  raisins;  1/2  lb.  dates;  4 
eggs;  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  1  leaspoonful  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water;     a  pinch  of  salt. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMAiNN. 

MRS.      WM.      BIERSCHWALE. 


Sugar   Cookies. 

11/^  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  2  large  tablespoonfuls 
milk;  1  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour;  1  teaspoonful 
baking  powder ;  1  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  sprinkle  with 
sugar. 

MRS.  A.  D.  STAHL. 

Zimmetsterne.      (Very  Good.) 

1  lb.  sifted  sugar ;  whites  of  6  eggs ;  1  lb.  al- 
monds;    1/8  f*2-  cinnamon;     grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

The  almonds  should  be  Avashed,  dried,  and  then 
grated  Avith  the  browni  skin  left  on.  Stir  the  sugar 
and  lemon  peel  into  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  continue  beating  for  15  minutes,  then  add  the 
cinnamon.  Reserve  a  small  part  of  this  mixture  for 
top  of  cakes,  then  to  the  large  portion  add  the  almonds. 
Roll  out  about  %  inch  in  thickness,  using  only  as  much 
flour  as  necessary.  Cut  with  star  shaped  cutter,  brush 
each  cookie  with  the  reserved  white  of  egg  mixture 
and  bake  slowly  on  well  greased  pans. 

MRS.    ROEHM, 


—  91  — 

Small  Tea  Cakes. 

5  eggs;  11/2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter  or  lard; 
2   teaspoonfuls   baking   i^owder;     spices   or   extract. 

The  dough  must  be  worked  lightly,  rolled  out, 
cut  with  a  cake-cutter  and  baked  in  a  moderately 
hot    stove. 

IRMA   OCHS. 


—  92  — 

LAYER  CAKES. 


Brides  Cake. 


1  lb.  of  butter;  1'  lb.  of  sugar,  sifted;  %  lb.  of 
flour,  Avarmed ;  12  eggs ;  1  lb.  of  almonds  or  pecans ; 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  1  teaspoonful  of 
mace;     grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

FILLING:  14  lb.  of  fresh  butter;  1|4  lb.  of 
sugar;  the  yolks  of  4  eggs;  juice  of  4  lemons; 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Cream  butter  after  washing  salt  out,  add  sugar, 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  mace,  yolks  of  eggs,  nuts,  and 
stir  one-half  hour.  Then  add  flour  to  which  the  baking 
pow^der  has  been  added,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Bake  in  layers  a  light  brown.  Sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  several  times.  Add  a  little  flour,  then 
a  little  white  of  egg  until  all  have  been  added. 

FULLING:  Wash  salt  well  out  of  butter  before 
using.  Then  melt  butter  over  slow  fire,  stir  in 
sugar,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
juice  of  lemons.  Continue  stirring  over  fire  until 
creamy.  Remove,  stir  a  while,  and  spread  between 
layers. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Caramel   Cake. 

114  cups  sugar;  I/2  cup  butter;  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
1  cup  water;  2  cups  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  cool 
caramel  syrup;     1  teaspoonful  vanilla;     1/2   cup  flour j 


—  98  — 

2    teaspoonfuls    baking    powder;    stiffly    beaten    whites 
of    2    eggs. 

Mix  well  the  first  five  ingredients,  adding  the 
others  as  given.  The  cake  may  be  baked  as  a  layer 
cake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  put  together  with  the 
following  filling. 

FILLING :  1  cup  sugar ;  14  cup  water ;  white 
of  1  egg;  1/^  teaspoonful  vanilla;  1  teaspoonful 
caramel  syrup. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  spins  a 
thread,  add  it  to  the  beaten  white,  continue  beating, 
adding  the  vanilla  and  the  caramel  syrup. 

CARAMEL  SYRUP:  1  cup  sugar;  1/2  cup  boiling 
water. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire;  stir 
constantly  until  it  is  a  brown  color,  take  from  the  fire, 
add  water,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

HELENE  HANISCH. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

14  cup  butter;  II/2  cups  powdered  sugar;  3 
eggs;  Yo  cup  milk;  II/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
11/2  cups  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a 
time.  Dissolve  on  the  stove  1  cupful  of  chocolate ;  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk ; 
then  add  to  the  above  mixture.  Now  gradually  add 
1/^  cup  of  milk;  ly^  cupfuls  of  flour,  and  11/2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder;  mixing  the  baking  powder 
with  the  last  half  cupful  of  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
extract.  If  the  batter  seems  too  thin  add  a  little 
more    flour. 


94 


Chocolate  Cake. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  i/o  cupful  of  butter;  I/2  cup- 
ful of  milk;  yolks  of  three  eggs;  whites  of  two;  2% 
cupfuls  of  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
y2  cupful  of  melted  chocolate;  I/2  cupful  of  milk. 

Melt  chocolate,  add  half  cupful  of  milk;  Avhen 
thoroughly  mixed  let  cool.  Cream  sugar  and  butter, 
add  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  whites.  Mix  well. 
Add  flour  with  the  baking  powder,  then  the  chocolate. 
Bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING:  r  cupful  of  sugar;  1|3  cupful  of  milk; 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  boil  5  minutes.  Beat  until 
cool,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  between 
layers. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Delicious  Chocolate  Cake. 

8  eggs,  the  white  beaten  stiff;  2  cups  of  sugar; 
1  cake  of  sweet  chocolate;  1  cup  of  butter;  3  cups  of 
flour;     1  cup  of  milk;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the 
milk,  then  flour  and  beaten  whites.  Divide  into  equal 
parts  and  into  half  grate  a  cake  of  sweet  chocolate. 
Bake  in  layers,  spread  with  custard  and  alternate  the 
dark  and  white  layers. 

FOR  CUSTARD:  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  1  pint 
of  milk,  let  boil  together;  then  stir  in  2  eggs,  beaten 
with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  then  boil  all  and  spread 
on  cake. 

MRS.  G.  E.  WRIGHT. 


—  95  — 

Devil's  Food   Cake,     No.   1. 

PART  1 :  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  cup  grated 
chocolate;      i/o    cup   sweet   milk. 

Allow  mixture  to  come  to  a  boil  and  set  aside 
to  cool. 

PART  2 :  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  i/o  cup  butter ; 
yo  cup  sweet  milk;  3  yolks  of  eggs;  2  cups  flour; 
2   teaspoon fuls    baking   powder. 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner  and  add  to  part  1,  bake 
in  layers   and  spread  with   soft   chocolate   icing. 

MISS   BERTHA   PRIESS. 

Devil's   Food   Cake.     No.   2. 

2  cupfuls  brown  or  white  sugar;  i4  cup  butter; 
V2  cup  lard ;  2  eggs  ;  1  cup  buttermilk ;  3  cups  flour ; 
11/^  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon;  i/o  teaspoon  allspice;  1/2 
cake  of  ground  chocolate,  with  enough  hot  water  to 
make    i/o    cup;     14   teaspoon   soda. 

Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  four  layers.  Put 
together  with  cooked  icing. 

MRS.    ALVIN   STRIEGLER. 

Devil's  Food  Cake.     No.  3. 

Vz  cup  butter;  li/o  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  i/^  cup 
sour  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon 
vanilla;     2  squares  of  chocolate. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  the 
soda  dissolved  in  the  sanie  milk,  flour,  flavoring,  and 
lastly  stir  into  the  batter  the  chocolate  dissolved  in 
V2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put 
together  vrith  white  frosting. 

MRS.   AUG.   JORDAN. 


—  96  — 

JDevil's  Food  Cake  (Layer).    No.  4. 

5  eggs  beaten  separately ;  2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup 
butter;  2  cups  flour;  1  small  cup  grated  chocolate 
(bitter),  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  1  level  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda. 

Mix  well  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  butter,  then 
add  1  cup  milk.  Sift  soda  and  flour  together  and 
stir  into  mixture.  Add  the  chocolate  and  lastly  fold 
in  the  whites.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
chocolate   filling. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING:  1  cup  sugar;  1/2  cup 
sweet  milk;  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  (bitter); 
a  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  until  it  will  cream,  then  remove  from  fire  and 
beat  hard  till  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread. 

MRS.   A.   D.    STAHL. 

Pineapple  Cake. 

11/2  cups  powdered  sugar;  1/2  cup  butter;  I/2 
cup  sweet  milk;  1^  cup  cornstarch;  II/2  cups  flour; 
2   teaspoonfuls   baking   powder. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  add  the  milk, 
then  add  the  flour,  cornstarch  and  baking  powder 
well  mixed  and  sifted,  last  add  the  whites  of  8  eggs 
beaten. 

FILLING :  1  can  of  grated  pineapple ;  1  cup 
sugar. 

Boil  to  a  thick  jelly  and  let  cool.  Make  a  boiled 
icing  of  3  cups  sugar;  ^2  cup  water  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs. 

MRS.   SCHWARZ. 


—  97  — 

Graham  Cracker  Layer  Cake. 

28  graham  crackers,  rolled  and  mixed  with   1  tea- 
spoon  baking  powder;      i/o    cup   butter;     1    cup   sugar 
creamed  with  butter;     3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately ;     %  cup  milk ;     1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Bake   15   minutes. 

MRS.     MAX     BIERSCHWALE. 
BELLE  STEBBINS. 

Jam  Cake. 

Three  eggs;  1'  cup  of  sugar;  %  cup  of  butter; 
114  cups  of  flour ;  1  cup  jam ;  4  tablespoonfuls  sour 
milk ;  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  sour 
milk. 

Adding   jam   last. 

For  flavoring  a  little  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
nutmeg.     Bake   in  layers. 

FILLING:  2  cups  of  sugar;  2|3  cupful  of  milk; 
butter  the  size  of  a  pecan.  Boil  4  minutes,  then  beat 
to  a  soft  creamy  mixture. 

MRS.   F.   MORGAN. 

Plain  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  tablespoon  butter ;  3  eggs ;  V2 
cup  milk;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  1 
cup    flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
boating  well,  then  milk,   flour  and  baking  powder. 

This  makes  2  layers.     Use  any  icing  preferred. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 


98 


Layer   Cream   Cake. 

1  cup  butter;  4  eggs;  1  cup  milk;  3  cups 
flour;  2  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing  powder;     2   cups    fresh    cream. 

Mix  the  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  well, 
then  stir  in  the  milk.  Add  the  flour  and  baking 
powder,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  last.  (Enough  for 
4   layers.) 

FILLING:  Whip  the  cream  and  stiffen  with 
sugar  and  put  between  the  layers  when  they  are 
thoroughly    cool. 

MRS.  WM.   WAHRMUND. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

11/2  cups  sugar;  1/0  cup  milk;  i/^  cup  butter; 
21/2  cups  flour;  3  eggs;  i/o  ^^iP  pecans;  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder;  1  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
lemon. 

PILLING:  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  pecans;  2 
eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls  flour;  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
2   lemons;     2   tablespoonfuls   water. 

Boil  until  it  thickens,  add  pecans,  cool,  and 
spread    between    layers. 

E.    LOUDON. 

Pecan  Layer  Cake. 

4  eggs;  1/2  lb.  butter;  1/2  lb.  sugar;  1/2  lb.  flour; 
1/2  lb  pecans ;  y^  cup  milk ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 
2   teaspoons   baking   powder. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUTIGAM. 


99 


Mahogany  Cake. 

Dissolve  2  oz.  of  chocolate  in  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water;  cream.  1/2  cup  butter  with  I14  cups 
sugar.  Add  to  this  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
the  cooled  chocolate ;  next  Yo  cup  of  sweet  milk ; 
1%  cups  flour,  containing  2  rounded  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder;  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs.     Bake  in  3  layers. 

FILLING :  Cream  3  cups  powdered  sugar  with 
V2  cup  butter;  yolk  of  1  egg;  2  tablespoonfuls  pow- 
dered chocolate  mixed  with  5  tablespoonfuls  strong 
hot  coffee;  stir  well,  add  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  cream.  Beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Do 
not  cook  this  filling. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 

Orange   Cake. 

V2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  I/2  cup  milk;  ly^ 
cups  flour;  3  eggs  (whites  only);  %  teaspoonful 
baking    powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  Avell,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
and  add  alternately  with  flour,  baking  powder  and 
milk  to   the  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 

FILLING:  1  orange;  i-^  lemon;  %  cup  milk; 
3  eggs ;  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar ;  I/2  tablespoonful 
butter;     1  tablespoonful  flour;     a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  stir 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Remove  from  stove  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  1  orange  and  the  juice  of  i/^  lemon,  and  yolks  of 
3    eggs. 

IRMA   HEYLAND. 


loo 


One  Egg  Oake. 

1  tablcspooii  butter;  1  cup  milk;  1  cup  sugar; 
2  cups  flour;  1  egg  (^ve]l  beaten);  2  level  teaspoons 
baking    powder;    vanilla    extract. 

Bake  in  two  layers  or  as  a  loaf  cake. 

MRS.  WERNER  KEIDEL. 

Plain  Oocoanut  Layer  Oake. 

1  cup  sugar;  1/2  cup  milk;  3  tablespoonfuls 
butter ;  1  cup  flour ;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;     1   teaspoon   vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
then  milk  and  flour  into  which  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted.      This    quantity   makes    2    layers. 

ICING:  Beat  2  Avhites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  spread  on  layers,  sprinkle 
with  cocoanut  and  set  into  stove  to  brown. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 


Spice   Oake. 

4  eggs,  reserving  the  Miiites  of  2 ;  2  cups  of  brown 
sugar ;  1/2  cup  of  melted  butter ;  i/>  cup  of  sour 
milk;  1  teaspoonful  of  soda;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cin- 
namon; 11/2  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves;  Yo  teaspoonful 
of  nutmeg;     2  cups  of  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk.     Bake  in  layers. 

Make  the  icing  to  spread  between  layers,  ^vith 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 

xVIRS.   LOUIS   OEHLER. 


—  101  — 

Sponge  Cake. 

3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoons  water;  1 
cup  flour;     1   teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  then  add  sugar  and  watei-, 
then  add  flour  with  baking  powder. 

This    makes    2    layers. 

MISS  CORA   ROEDEK. 

Strawberry  She     Cake. 

2  cups  of  flour ;  1,4  "^up  of  butter ;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  several  times,  then 
put  in  the  butter  and  mix  wejl  with  fingers.  Now  add 
milk  enough  to  make  a  dough,  stiff  to  roil. 

Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven.  When  done  split  cake 
horizontally,  and  butter  both  parts  well.  Now  spread 
the  lower  part  with  berries  and  sugar,  put  on  the  top 
and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Serve  with  crushed  berries  and  cream. 

Peaches  and  other  fruits  may  be  used  with  this  cake. 

MRS.  AD.  WEHMEYER. 

White   Layer   Oake.     No.  2. 

1/2  cup  butter,  creamed  with  1  cup  sugar;  14 
cup  milk;  1%  cups  flour;  I1/2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;     3   whites  of  eggs,  stiffly  beaten. 

Bake   in   moderate   oven   in   3   layers. 

FILLING:  Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  with  1  cup  of 
water  until  it  threads  from  a  fork.  Pour  over  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  tAvo  eggs;  add  1  cup  of  chopped 
pecans   and   1   cup   of  raisins. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 


—  102  — 

White   Layer   Cake.     No.   3. 

Whites  of  6  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar;  %  cup  of 
butter ;  1  cuf)  of  sweet  milk ;  3  cups  of  flour ;  2 
teaspoonfuls   of  baking   powder. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  flour  sifted 
tAvice  with  baking  poAvder;  add  milk  and  Avhen  mixed, 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat 
thoroughly   and   bake   in   four   layers. 

FILLING:  %  cup  milk;  2  cups  sugar;  the 
whites  of  2  eggs;     %  cup  pecans;  raisins  and  currants. 

Boil  milk  and  sugar  till  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  pour  syrup  over  them,  beating  well 
till  cool.  Then  add  pecans,  raisins  and  currants  and 
spread   between   layers. 

MISS   ALVINA   GOLD. 

Wedding  Cake.     (Braut-Torte.) 

1  cup  butter;  1  cup  chopped  pecans;  1  civp 
sugar;  6  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  vanilla 
flavor;     214    cups    flour;    2   to    3    spoons   water. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  water, 
pecans,  finally  Avhites  of  eggs  and  flour  in  which 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted  alternately.  Bake  in 
hot   oven,   in   four   layers. 

FILLING:  14  lb.  butter;  lj4  lb.  sugar;  4  yolks 
of  eggs;  juice  of  4  lemons.  Beat  over  fire  constantly. 
Ice  cake   with   cooked   icing. 

MARIE    GESSLER. 


—  103  — 

Frosting  for  Angel  Food. 

1  cup  of  sugar ;  l^  cup  of  milk ;  a  small  piece  of 
butter;     1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Dampen  sugar  with  the  milk.  Stir  till  it  dissolves 
and  boil.  Then  let  it  boil  about  five  minutes,  not 
longer;  remove  from  fire,  set  in  a  dish  containing 
cold  water,  add  flavor.  Stir  till  it  stiffens,  then  spread 
quickly    on    cake    as    it    hardens    rapidly. 

MRS.    P:MIL    RILEY. 

Marshmallow  Frosting. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar ; 
1/2  teaspoon  vanilla ;  i/4  lb.  marshmallows ;  2  table- 
spoonfuls   hot    -water. 

Heat  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  with  6  tablespoon- 
fuls sugar,  and  boil  6  minutes  without  stirring.  In 
a  double  boiler,  heat  14  1^-  marshmallows  and  when 
very  soft,  add  2  tablespoonful'  of  hot  water.  Cook 
until  smooth.  Beat  into  it  the  hot  syrup  (boiled  milk 
and  sugar)     and  beat  well  until  cool.     Use  at  once. 

MRS.    EMIL    RILEY. 

Marshmallow  Filling. 

2  cups  sugar;  I/2  c^P  water;  1^  lb.  marshmallows; 
2    eggs. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  it  ropes.  Add  the 
marshmallows  broken  in  small  bits.  When  these  have 
dissolved,  pour  gradually  into  the  beaten  whites  of 
2   eggs.     Beat   until   cold   and   spread    on    cake. 

MRS.  HERMAN  USENER. 


—  104  — 

Simple  Cake  Frosting,  uncooked. 

White  of  1  egg;  2  cups  powdered  sugar;  butter, 
size  of  wahiut;     vanilla  flavoring. 

Put  unbeaten  ■white  of  egg  in  bowl.  Add  sugar 
gradually  till  paste  is  smooth.  Then  add  butter  (soft 
but  not  melted),  and  vanilla. 

BELLE    STEBBLXS. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  14  cup  boiling  water; 
V2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ;  white  of  1  egg. 

Put  sugar  and  Avater  in  pan  on  stove  and  stir  till 
sugar  dissolves.  Add  cream  of  tartar  and  do  not  stir 
again.  Beat  egg  white  stiff.  Cook  syrup  until  it 
spins.  Beat  into  whipped  egg.  A  pinch  of  salt  and 
any    desired    flavoring   may   be   used. 

BELLE    STEBBLNS. 

Orange  Icing. 

Boil  2  cupfuls  sugar;  1  cupful  water,  until  it 
strings.  Pour  over  well  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  beat 
until  smooth  and  thick;  add  l'y2  teaspoonfuls  orange 
extract,  and  spread  rapidly  on  cake. 

MISS   OLGA   VON   HAOJEN. 


—  105  — 

LOAF  CAKES 


Angel's  Food  Cake.     No.   1. 

Whites  of  11  eggs;  II/2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  of 
flour ;     1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ;     flavoring. 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  add  the  sugar, 
then  gradually  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
together.  Flour  should  be  sifted  five  times.  Bake  in 
an  ungreased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

MRS.  AUG.  JORDAN. 

Angel's  Food  Cake,     No.  2. 
1   cup  sugar,   sifted   3   times;      II/4   cups   flour;     3 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;     a  pinch  of  salt;       Avhites 
of    2    eggs,    beaten    stiffly ;      1    cupful    milk ;      vanilla 
flavoring. 

Heat  milk  and  pour  over  dry  ingredients,  well 
sifted,  add  vanilla  and  carefully  fold  in  whites  of 
eggs.     Bake    in    moderate    oven    35    minutes. 

MRS.  H.  W.  KUSENBERGER. 

Arch   Ang-el   Cake.      No.   3. 

1  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  2  cups  sifted  flour; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder ;  whites  of  8  eggs ;  1  tea- 
spoon   vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder,  stir  in  beaten  whites  and  vanilla  and 
bake.  This  can  be  baked  in  layers  Avith  marshmallow 
filling. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 


106 


Almond  Cake. 

15  eggs;  %  lb.  sugar;  %  lb.  almonds;  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon  and  1  orange. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  at  least  15  minutes;  add 
almonds  ground  unblanched,  lastly  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  the  15  eggs.  Bake  %  of  an  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

MRS.  EUGENE  VANDER  STUCKEN. 

Cup  Cake. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  1 
cup  sweet  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 

Brides  Cake. 

3  cups  of  sugar ;  1  cup  of  butter ;  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk ;  5  cups  of  flour ;  I/2  cup  of  cornstarch ;  whites  of 
14  eggs ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  1  teaspoon 
each  of  lemon  and  vanilla  extract. 

Stir  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  milk  and 
cornstarch,  then  mix  together  and  put  in  the  whites 
well  beaten  and  flour  sifted  several  times. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Coffee  Cake. 

1  cup  coffee;  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup 
sugar ;  1  cup  raisins ;  1  cup  currants ;  4  cups  flour ;  1 
nutmeg ;  I/2  teaspoon  cinnamon ;  Y^,  teaspoon  cloves ;  4 
eggs;  V^  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 


~  107  — 

Quick  OofTee  Cake. 

1/4  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar,  creamed  together;  1 
beaten  egg;  Y2  cup  milk;  14  teaspoonful  salt;  I14  cups 
flour;  1*  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Turn  into  a  "well  buttered  shallow  pan,  pour  over 
top  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
sugar   and   cinnamon,  bake   in   a  quick   oven. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 


Crumb  Cake. 

2  cups  flour ;  2  eggs ;  %  cup  butter ;  %  cAip 
milk;     iy2  cups  sugar;     2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Crumb  flour,  butter,  sugar  and  baking  powder. 
Reserve  1/2  cup  of  this  mixture ;  add  the  eggs  and  milk. 
Put  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  remaining  half  cup 
of  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  M.   PUHL, 


Date  and   Nut  Loaf. 

1  lb.  of  stoned  dates;  1  lb.  of  nuts;  1  cup  of 
sugar ;  1  cup  of  flour ;  4  eggs,  beaten  separately ; 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla;     I/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Cream  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  sift  baking  poAv- 
der  and  salt  into  flour,  stir  into  mixture,  then  fold 
in  the  beaten  whites  lightly,  add  vanilla  and  drop  in 
dates  and  nuts  a  few  at  a  time;  stir  well,  then  drop 
all  in  a  loaf  pan  and  bake  slowly  one  hour. 

MRS.  G.  E.  WRIGHT. 


—  108  — 

Cup  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter;  2  cups  of  sugar;  3  cups  of  flour; 
1  cup  of  milk;  1  cup  of  raisins;  1  cup  of  currants;  1 
cup  of  pecans ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  4  eggs ; 
%  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Bake  one  hour. 

MISS   IRMA   OCHS. 

Chocolate  Molasses  Cake. 

6  yolks  of  eggs ;  whites  of  two ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 
1  cup  molasses ;  1  cup  pecans ;  7  squares  of  sweet  choco- 
late ;  3  cups  of  flour ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ;  a  small 
piece  of  citron ;  knife  point  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
allspice. 

Mix  v/ell,  bake  in  a  bread  pan,  and  cut  in  squares 
when  baked. 

MRS.    EMIL   WEBER. 

Fruit  Cake. 

1  lb.  butter ;  1  lb.  sugar ;  6  eggs ;  orange  and 
lemon  peel ;  1'  glass  wine ;  1  glass  brandy ;  14  lb. 
cocoa;  1/4  lb.  cherries  (sugared);  i/^  cup  molasses; 
1/2  cup  sour  milk ;  1  teaspoon  soda ;  1  teaspoon  of 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  1  teaspoon  ginger ;  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder ;  1  lb.  raisins ;  1  lb.  currants : 
1/2  lb.  pecans;  14  lb.  citron;  1/2  lb.  figs;  i/o  lb. 
dates;  14  lb.  almonds  (or  other  kinds  of  fruit 
desired) ;   flour  enough  to   stiffen. 

MRS.   ARNOLD   KOTT. 


—  109  — 

Citron   Pound   Cake. 

%  lb.  butter;  1  lb.  sugar;  8  eggs;  1  lb.  flour; 
ll^   lbs.   citron. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs  and  the  flour.  Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
then  the  finely  sliced  citron,  lightly  dredged  with 
flour.     Bake  1^^  to  2  hours. 

MRS.   HERMAN   USENER. 

Fruit  Cake. 

(Prize    Cake.) 

12  eggs;  1  pound  sugar;  1  pound  butter;  1 
pound  pecans ;  1  pound  currants ;  1  pound  raisins ; 
1  pound  dates  or  figs ;  i/4  pound  citron ;  14  pound 
lemon  and  orange  peeling;  1  large  apple;  1  grated 
nutmeg;  1  wine  glass  of  brandy;  1  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon ;  i/>  teaspoonful  of  cloves ;  I/2  teaspoonful 
of  mace ;  1/2  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  1  pound  of 
flour;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  a  pinch  of 
salt. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  to  a  paste,  adding 
the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  all  the  fruit,  spices  and 
brandy,  flour  and  baking  powder,  lastly  adding  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Bake    two    or    three   hours. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 

Cup    Fruit    Cake. 

%  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  milk;  3 
eg-gs;  3  cups  flour;  1  cup  nuts;  1  cup  raisins;  3 
level    teaspoonfuls    baking    powder. 

ROSA   DECHERT. 


110 


Cracker   Cake. 


5  eggs;  1  cup  sweet  chocolate,  grated;  1  cup 
pecans;  2  cups  sweet  cracker  crumbs;  1  cup  sugar; 
1^  cup  butter;  1/2  cup  milk;  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;     1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

This  cake  may  be  baked  either  in  layers  or  as 
loaf  cake  and  iced  Avith  caramel. 

Devil's    Food    Cake. 

PART  1.  1  cup  brown  sugar;  1/2  cup  butter;  i/^ 
eup  sweet  milk;  yolks  of  3  eggs;  2  cups  flour;  1 
teaspoon  soda. 

PART  2.  y<2,  cup  cocoa ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 
y^  cup  sweet  milk ;     1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  and  when  cool  mix  with  part  1.  Bake  in 
slow    oven. 

MRS.   WM.   BIERSCHWALE. 


Potato  Fruit  Cake, 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1/0  cup  of  butter;  4  eggs;  1 
cup  of  warm  mashed  potatoes;  4  ounces  of  bitter 
chocolate;  %  cup  of  water;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon; 1/2  teaspoon  of  mace;  2  cups  of  flour;  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder ;  i/^  cup  of  raisins ;  1/0  cup 
of  nuts ;     1/^  cup  of  currants. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  add 
chocolate  and  spices,  then  add  potatoes  and  flour  and 
wat-er  alternately,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  and 
fruit.     Bake   one   hour. 

MRS.  A.  H.   WELGEHAUSEN. 


—  Ill  — 

Old  English  Fruit  Cake. 

1  egg;  1  cup  molasses;  1'  cup  buttermilk;  1  cup 
sugar;  1  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour;  1  teaspoonful 
soda;  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  1  teaspoonful  cloves; 
1  teaspoonful  ginger;  1  nutmeg;  i/o  lb.  citron;  1/2 
lb.  lemon  peel;  1/0  lb.  orange  peel;  1/2  lb.  candied 
pineapple ;  1  lb.  raisins ;  1  lb.  currants ;  1  lb.  dates ; 
11/2    lbs.    pecans. 

Dredge  spices  and  fruit  with  flour  and  let  stand 
over  night. 

MRS.    G.   E.   WRIGHT. 

German  Fruit   Cake. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  4  eggs;  1  cooked 
potato ;  1/2  cup  milk ;  1  cup  chopped  pecans ;  1/0  cup 
chocolate  ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ;  ^^^  teaspoon  cloves ; 
1/2  teaspoon  nutmeg;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  FILLING:  1/2  lb.  sugar; 
14  lb.  grated  chocolate ;  i/^  cup  sweet  milk ;  butter, 
size    of   an   egg. 

Mix   and  cook  to   a  syrup  stiff  enough   to   spread. 

MRS.    AUG.   JORDAN. 

Premium  Fruit  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar;  ly^  cups  butter;  6  eggs;  li/o  cups 
sour  cream ;  2  teaspoonfuls  soda ;  i/o  lb.  currants ; 
%  lb.  raisins;  i/^  lb.  citron;  1  nutmeg;  sufficient 
flour  to  form  stiff  batter. 

MRS.    MOURSUND. 


—  112  — 

Lig^htning-  Cake. 

1  onp  butter;  4  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  1  heaping 
cup  flour;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  eggs,  then 
flour;  beat  well.  Spread  1  inch  thick  on  flat  buttered 
pans,  sprinkle  Avith  a  mixture  of  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  in   hot   oven ;     when  done   cut   in  squares. 

MISS  E.  LUNGKWITZ. 
MRS.  ALB.   STAATS. 

Pecan  Cake. 

1/2  cup  butter;  II/2  cups  sugar;  %  cups  milk; 
2  cups  flour;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  1 
cup  nuts    (chopped   fine)  ;     4   white   of  eggs. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  jDowder  3  times;  cream 
butter,  add  sugar,  then  alternately  milk  and  flour, 
lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  nut  meats.  Bake  in 
a  sheet  in  a  shallow  pan  30  to  40  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING:  1  cup  sugar;  Vo  oz.  choco- 
late; 1  white  of  egg  (beaten  dry);  14  cup  Avater;  1/2 
teaspoonful  vanilla   extract. 

Boil  sugar,  Avater  and  chocolate,  stirring.  Cover 
vessel  and  boil  3  minutes.  Uncover  and  boil  until  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  Avater;  then 
beat  sloAvly  into  the  Avhite  of  egg  and  continue  beating 
(after  extract  is  added)  until  thickened  sufficiently  to 
spread   on   cakes. 

MRS.  HENRY  HIRSCH. 


—  113  — 

Mandelbrot. 

1^/4  cups  chopped  almonds  or  nuts ;  2  cups  sugar ; 
1  lb.  flour ;  4  eggs ;  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  cloves, 
nutmeg;     1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

ifix  dry  ingredients  Avell,  add  eggs,  roll  out,  bake 
1/2   hour.     Cut  into  squares  while  still  warm,  then  ice. 

MARIE   GESSLER. 

Nut   Cake. 

3  eggs;  11/^  cups  sugar;  i/o  cup  butter;  y^,  cup 
milk;  21/2  cups  flour;  1  cup  nut  meat;  li/^  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder. 

MRS.   HENRY   BASSE. 

Potato  Cake.     No.  1. 

2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  butter,  stir  to  a  cream ; 
4  well-beaten  eggs;  I/2  cup  cooked  potatoes;  i'2  cup 
grated  chocolate;  I/2  cup  milk;  3  cups  flour;  1'  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder;  1  cup  pecans;  spices  to 
taste. 

MISS  BERTHA  PRIESS. 

Potato  Cake.     No.  2. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  I/2  cup  milk;  1  cup 
pecans;  21/2  cups  flour;  1  cup  boiled  potatoes,  grated; 
4  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  froth;  1  nutmeg;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon;  i/o  teaspoonful  cloves;  14  cake 
chocolate;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Add    grated   potatoes   last. 

MRS.  J.  A.  SCHLEYER. 
MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN. 


114 


Reception  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  (small);  li/o  cups  flour;  5  eggs; 
11/^  cups  powdered  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der. 

Beat  butter  until  creamy ;  add  flour  gradually 
while  beating  constantly;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  until 
lemon  colored;  add  sugar  while  beating  constantly. 
Combine  mixtures  and  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Sift  over  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder; 
beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  buttered  and  flamed  drip- 
ping pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  done 
spread   with   icing   and   cut   in   diamond   shaped   pieces. 

MRS.    MOURSUND. 

Silver   Cake. 

2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  whites  of  6  eggs; 
2  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder;  1  cup  butter;  % 
cup  sweet  milk. 

Cream  well  butter  and  sugar;  pour  in  milk.  Stir 
in  alternately  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  flour  which 
has  been  sifted  several  times  with  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MISS  JULIA  H.   ESTILL. 

White  Cake. 
1  cupful  of  butter;     2  cupfuls  of  sugar;     3i/<>  cup- 
fuls  of  flour;    2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  whites 
of   seven    eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour  sifted 
with  the  baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  one 
hour. 

■  MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 


115 


Sunshine   Cake. 

(Prize    Cake.) 
Whites  of  7  eggs;     yolks  of  5  eggs;     1  cup  sugar; 

1  cup  flour;  pinch  of  salt;  Yo  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  which  has  been 
added  the  pinch  of  salt.  When  about  half  done,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Add  sugar, 
the  beaten  yolks,  and  lightly  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake 
in  ungreased  mold  from  20  to  40  minutes.  Invert  in- 
to cups  and  let  stand  until  cold. 

MRS.  ADOLPH  WEBER. 

Spice  Cake. 

1  cup  of  molasses ;     i/2  cup  butter ;  1  cup  of  sugar ; 

2  eggs ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda;  Yo  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cin- 
namon ;  1/2  cup  of  strong  coffee ;  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough. 

Mix  all  except  molasses.  Heat  molasses  and  mix 
in  spices,  when  cool  mix  all  together  and  bake  in 
quick  oven. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Spice  Cake. 

IV^  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  teaspoonful  of 
allspice ;  1  cup  raisins ;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ; 
1  cup  sour  milk;  1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg;  3  cup- 
fuls  of  flour;     1  teaspoonful  of  soda;    3  eggs. 


—  116  — 

Loaf   Sponge    Cake. 

6  eggs;  1  eup  boiling  water;  V4  cup  cornstarch; 
lA  teaspoon  lemon  extract;  2  cups  sugar;  2%  cups 
flour;      1    teaspoon    baking   powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  beating  the 
sugar  in  gradually.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  the  boiling  water.  Beat  in  very  lightly  the  flour, 
cornstarch,  and  baking  powder  well  sifted  together. 
Flavor.     Bake  in  a  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.   MAIER. 

Snow  Cake. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  cornstarch; 
2  cups  flour ;  -  whites  of  7  eggs ;  1  cuj)  cream ;  2 
teaspoonfuls    baking    powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  cornstarch  and 
the  cream,  then  the  flour  sifted  two  or  three  times 
with  the  powder.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  fold 
into  the  batter,  beating  as  little  as  possible  after  adding 
eggs.     Flavor   with   lemon   extract. 

MRS.   A.   D.   STAHL. 


—  117  — 

EXTRA  HINTS  FOR  BAKING. 


1st  quarter  hour:     Cake  should  rise  but  not  brown. 
2nd  quarter  hour:     Continue  to  rise  and  specks  of 
broAvn    appear. 

3rd  quarter  hour:     Cake  should  brown  evenly   all 

over. 

4th  quarter  hour:     Cake  should  shrink  from  sides 

of   pan. 

Layer  cakes  bake  in  from  20  to  25  minutes. 
Loaf  cakes   bake   in   from   40   to   60   minutes. 
If  cake  sticks,  lay  a  wet  cloth  over  bottom  of  pan. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 


Weights  and  Measures. 
1   cup,   medium  size,   1/2   pint  or   14  lb. 
4  cups,  medium  size,  of  flour  weigh  1  lb. 
1  pt.  flour  weighs  %  lb. 

1  pt.  white  sugar  weighs  1  lb. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh  1  oz. 
8  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh  1  oz. 
1  gill  of  liquid  weighs  4  oz. 

1  pt.  of  liquid  weighs  16   oz. 


—  118  — 

SANDWICHES 


Chicken  Sandwiches. 

To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  chopped  chicken,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  almonds  or  pecans,  one-fourth  cupful  of 
stuffed  olives,  also  chopped  fine,  and  enough  mayon- 
naise dressing,  to  make  of  the  right  consistency. 
Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  butter,  and  place 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  these.  Place  the  chicken  filling 
between,  and  form  into  sandwiches. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 

Egg-  Sandwiches. 

Mince  hard  boiled  eggs,  mix  with  chopped  olives, 
or  cress  and  parsley,  moisten  with  butter  or  mayon- 
naise. Salt,  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Spread  between 
sliced    bread. 

MISS  ALMA   SCHUCH. 

Pimento  and  Cheese  Sandwiches. 

1  cup  grated  cream  cheese ;  4  tablespoonfuls  milk ; 
1  small  can  pimentoes;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter;  1 
teaspoonful  salt;  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch;  paprika 
to  taste. 

Put  cheese  in  double  boiler,  add  salt,  butter, 
paprika  and  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  milk.  Cook  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  chopped 
pimento. 

LETTIE    RICHTER. 


119 


Ham  Sandwiches. 

1  cup  of  boiled  ham ;  Vii  ♦-^'^^P  of  chopped  celery ; 
1    tablespoonful    of   chopped   pickles;    salad    dressing. 

Mince  well  some  boiled  ham.  To  every  cupful  of 
ham  use  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pickles, 
and  Y2  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  Mix  to  a  paste  with 
salad  dressing,  and  spread  between  slices  of  bread. 

DRESSING:  Beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  1/2  cup  of 
sugar;  1  tablespoonful  of  salt;  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard;  i/^  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour;     %   pint   of  vinegar   and   a   spoonful   of  butter. 

Stir  vinegar  into  the  egg  mixture  slowly,  to  prevent 
curdling.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and  Avhen  ready  to  use, 
thin  with   thick  cream. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Sardine  Sandwiches. 

1  can  of  sardines ;  hard  boiled  eggs ;  salt  and 
pejjper ;     lemon  juice  ;     melted  butter. 

Mash  the  sardines  to  a  paste  using  all  of  the  oil 
in  the  can.  Combine  Avith  an  equal  quantity  of  the 
mashed  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  add  the  chopped  whites. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice  and  moisten 
with  melted  butter. 

MRS.  AUG.  ITZ. 

Salad  Sandwiches. 

Equal  parts  of  cold  boiled  tongue  and  breast  of 
chicken,  chopped  very  fine  and  pounded  to  a  paste ; 
season  with  salt,  celery  salt,  cayenne,  or  paprika,  and 
moisten  with  mayonnaise   or  boiled  dressing. 

MRS.  MAX  BIERSCHWALE. 


—  120  — 

Delicious  Sandwiches. 
1  cup  of  ground  ham;  a  few  olives;  1  tablespoon 
of  pickles;     1  tablespoon  of  pinientoes;     3  tablespoons 
of    mayonnaise    dressing. 

Spread  the  mixture  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  be- 
tween  lightly   buttered   slices   of   white   bread. 

MRS.  R.  L.  KOTT. 

Tongue  Sandwiches. 

1  cupful  of  cold  boiled  tongue  (minced  fine)  ;  V^ 
cup  celery;  1  large  ripe  tomato;  1  green  sweet 
pepper ;     2  or  3  small  pickles,  if  desired. 

Cut  celery',  tomatoes,  pepper  and  pickles  into 
small  pieces  and  mix  with  tongue.  Mix  all  with 
mayonnaise    dressing. 

ELSA   WALTER. 


—  121  — 

CONFECTIONERY. 


Hard  Caramels. 

One  cup  white  sugar;  one  cup  molasses;  two 
squares  chocolate;     butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 

Boil  until  brittle,  when  tested;  then  add  one  cup 
chopped   nuts   and   pour    on   buttered   pans. 

MISS  MARY  KELLER. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
2    cups    molasses;      1    cup    brown      sugar;      1    cup 
cream   or  milk;      y2   lb.   chocolate;     butter,   size   of  an 

egg. 

Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  when 
tested  in  cold  water.  Turn  into  large  flat  tins,  well 
buttered.      When   nearly    cold,    cut    into    small    squares. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 

Stuffed  Dates. 

1  lb.  dates  (stoned,  stuffed  with  pecans) ;  fresh 
cocoanut  (grated)  ;  make  stiff  white  icing,  roll  dates 
in  icing  and  then  in  cocoanut. 

MRS.   RANDALL, 
Sherman,  Texas. 

Stuffed   Figs. 

Stuff  figs  with  nuts,  soak  over  night  in  brandy, 
roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.   RANDALL, 
Sherman,  Texas. 


—  122  — 

Date  Roll. 

1  lb.  dates;  I/2  cup  milk;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups 
nuts. 

Stone  and  chop  dates,  boil  sugar  and  milk  about 
3  minutes,  add  dates  and  stir  until  dissolved,  take  off 
fire  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  nuts,  beat 
again,  roll  into  a  wet  cloth,  and  when  cool,  slice. 

MISS  BEULAH  TALLEY. 

Sweet  Divinity. 

In  a  saucepan  put  2|3  cup  water,  3  cups  granulated 
sugar,  and  one  cup  Karo  Corn  Syrup.  Let  cook  until 
the  mixture  will  make  a  soft  ball  M-hen  tested  in  cold 
water. 

Twelve  minutes  after  first  saucepan  has  been 
started,  into  a  second  one  put  y^  cup  water  and  1  cup 
granulated  sugar,  and  set  to  cook.  AVhen  this  mixture 
threads,  when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  it  is  done.  This 
will  be  very  nearly  the  same  time  as  the  first  is  in 
proper  condition.  When  the  first  is  ready,  the  mixture 
should  be  poured  slowly  over  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
whisked  to  a  stiff  froth,  beating  briskly  the  whites. 
When  it  has  reached  a  satisfactory  stage,  turn  in  slow- 
ly the  contents  of  the  second  saucepan,  still  beating 
constantly,  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  nutmeats.  Turn  the 
mass  out  in  a  buttered  tin  and  score  in  squares  when 
sufficiently    cool. 

E.   LOUDON. 


—  123  — 

Divinity  Candy. 

2  2|3  cups  sugar;  2|3  cup  corn  syrup;  2|3  cup 
water;     whites  of  2  eggs. 

Cook  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  it  forms  hard 
balls,  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Have  the  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to 
hold  all  the  candy.  Pour  candy  over  eggs  slowly, 
beating  hard  all  the  time,  and  continue  beating  till 
almost  hard.  Then  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  to 
chalk.  Cut  into  squares  when  cold.  You  may  add 
any  kind  of  nuts  or  raisins,  before  turning  candy  into 
buttered  dish. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Fig  Fudge, 

Two  pounds  light  brown  sugar ;  cover  with  rich 
sweet  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook  un- 
til it  will  gum  in  cold  M^ater.  Add  a  package  of  figs, 
chopped ;  flavor  Avith  vanilla ;  beat  until  stiff  and 
pour  on  buttered  plates. 

MISS   MARY   KELLER. 

Genesee  Squares. 

2  cups  sugar;  1'  cup  molasses;  I/2  cup  butter; 
1  cup  milk;  2  cakes  good  sweet  chocolate;  2  tea- 
spoonfuls   vanilla. 

Grate  chocolate  and  let  the  mixture  come  slpwly 
to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  until  it  will  form  a  ball  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  stir 
until  it  is  thick  and  shows  signs  of  sugaring.  Spread 
in  tins  and  cut  into  cubes. 

JJLSBETH  HANISCH. 


—  1*24  — 

Molasses  Fudge. 

3  cups  of  granulated  sugar;  1  cup  of  inilk  or 
cream;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  2  tablespooiifuls 
of  molasses;  i/o  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
little  milk. 

Boil  10  minutes.  Beat  until  creamy ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  1  cup  of  nut  meats  while  beat- 
ing.    When  cold  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Marshmallow^s. 

^'2  box  of  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine;  2  cups  (one 
pint)  granulated  sugar;  a  few  grains  of  salt;  flavor 
to  taste.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  ten  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water.  Heat  the  sugar  with  ten  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  till  dissolved.  Add  to  gelatine  and  let  stand 
till  partially  cool.  Add  salt  and  flavor.  Beat  with 
an  egg  beater  until  stiff,  then  with  a  large  spoon. 
Spread  in  a  pan  which  has  been  well  dusted  with 
powdered  sugar,  mixed  with  a  little  corn  starch. 
Cool  thoroughly  (over  night  is  best).  Then  dust  your 
flour  board  with  powdered  sugar  and  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  EMIL  RILEY. 

Candy  Patience. 

2  cups  sugar;  I/2  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Put  11/2  eups  sugar  in  sauce  pan  and  melt.  Cook 
the  remainder  with  the  milk  until  it  hardens  when  put 
in  water.  Add  the  melted  sugar  and  stir  five  minutes. 
Put  in  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

MISS  IVIAYME  GREATHOUSE, 


—  125  — 

Marshmallows. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar;  14  cup  of  water,  till  it  forms 
a  syrup.  Dissolve  one  envelope  of  Knox  Gelatine  in  1/0 
cup  of  water  and  let  it  stand  5  minutes.  Pour  boiling 
syrup  over  dissolved  gelatine  and  beat  till  stiff. 

Then,  pour  half  of  portion  into  a  buttered  pan, 
to  the  other  half  add  pink  coloring  which  comes  in 
gelatine.  Use  any  flavor  desired,  making  each  half 
different.  Let  it  stand  until  it  is  hard  enough  to  be 
cut   into   blocks. 

RUBY  STEIN. 

Nut  Candy. 

2  cups  sugar;     i/^  cup  water;     1  cup  nutmeats. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  thick 
enough  to  spin  a  thread;  flavor  to  suit  taste;  set 
in  cold  water;  stir  quickly  until  white,  then  stir  in 
the  nuts;  turn  into  flat  tins;  Avhen  cold  cut  into 
squares. 

E.   LOUDON. 

Wellesley  Pinoche. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar;  1  cup  milk;  butter, 
size  of  an  egg;     1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Boil  sugar,  butter  and  milk  together  until  mixture 
thickens  when  tested  in  cold  water;  add  nuts,  beat 
until  a  thick  and  creamy  mass ;  pour  out  into  well- 
buttered  pan,  before  it  has  quite  cooled.  Cut  into 
squares  with  a  knife  that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling 
water. 

ESTELLE  F.  SMITH. 


126 


Taffy. 

3  cups  sugar;  1/2  cup  water;  1/2  cup  of  vinegar; 
butter,  size   of  an   egg;     vanilla. 

Mix  all  together,  cook  until  it  hardens  Avhen 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Don't  stir,  turn  on  greased 
platter  and  pull  until  white. 

MISS  MARIE  KELLER. 

French  Noug^at. 

2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiffly;  21/2  cups  sugar; 
1^  cup  warm  water;  14  cup  corn  syrup;  II/2  cups 
nuts,   candied  cherries,  raisins   and  citron,  mixed. 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  it  threads,  pour 
half  the  quantity  slowly  into  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  eggs,  whipping  incessantly.  Allow  the  remainder 
to  boil  until  it  forms  a  hard  glassy  ball  when  dropped 
into  water,  and  add  the  other  which  in  the  meantime 
has  been  steadily  beaten.  When  almost  hard,  add 
fruit.     Drop  on  oiled  paper  and  wrap  when  cooled. 

MISS  LOUISE  BRANDT. 


—  127  — 

JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES, 


Fruit  Jellies. 

With  but  a  few  exceptions,  the  rule  for  all  fruit 
jellies  is  substantially  the  same.  The  directions  given, 
if  followed  closely,  cannot  fail  to  produce  a  clear, 
sparkling  jelly.  If  it  should,  after  strict  adherence  to 
the  recipe,  prove  watery,  the  fault  is  in  the  fruit,  not 
in  the  method  or  the  maker. 

Thin  liquid  jellies  can  often  be  brought  to  greater 
firmness  if  the  filled  glasses  are  allowed  to  stand  in 
the  hot  sun.  Sometimes  three  or  four  hours  will 
suffice,  at  other  times  as  many  days  may  be  required. 

Not  until  the  jelly  is  at  least  comparatively  firm 
should  it  be  covered  with  waxed  paper  and  sealed. 

MRS.    OTTO   KOLMEIER. 

Melon  Preserve. 

1  lb.  melon;     1  lb.  sugar;     rind  of  1  lemon. 

Peel  the  melon  and  scrape  out  the  red  flesh,  using 
only  the  hard  part,  cut  into  pieces  and  cover  with 
vinegar  24  hours.  Then  drain  and  cover  melon  with 
the  sugar  for  the  same  length  of  time.  Take  out  and 
let  sugar  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  melon  and 
lemon  rind.  Boil  until  partly  soft,  take  out  melon 
and  boil  juice  until  thick  enough..  Let  cool  and  fill 
into  jars. 

MRS.  FRED.  WALTER. 


—  128  — 

Crab   Apple   Jelly. 

Quarter,  Avithout  peeling  or  coring,  ripe  crab 
apples.  Put  into  the  preserving  kettle,  add  water,  not 
quite  enough  to  cover  the  fruit,  boil  slowly  until  fruit 
is  quite  tender. 

Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.     Measure  the  juice. 

To  each  pint  of  this,  allow   a  pound  of  sugar.     Place 

the  juice  on  the  stove,     bring  rapidly  to  a  boil.     Boil 

20   minutes,   skim   it,   add   the   sugar,   stir   until   it   has 

dissolved.     Boil    about    10    minutes      longer.      Test    by 

cooling  a  little  in  a  saucer. 

#         #         # 

Blackberries,  Mustang  Grapes,  Plums,  etc.,  can 
all   be   made   by    following   the    above    recipe. 

MRS.   OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Peach  Jelly. 

Select  peaches  that  are  not  too  sweet.  Wash  them 
and  rub  off  the  fuzz.  Cut  in  halves;  remove  the 
stones.  Crack  a  dozen  kernels,  and  add  them  to  the 
peaches.  Boil  until  tender.  When  the  liquid  is 
strained  and  measured,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  to  each  pint  of  the  jelly,  and  then  proceed  as 
in    other    jellies. 

MRS.  WM.  CRENWELGE. 

Fig   Preserves. 

4  lbs.    of  peeled  figs;    3  lbs.  of  sugar;     one  lemon. 

Peel  figs  in  the  evening  and  cover  with  sugar. 
Next  morning  add  the  lemon  juice,  or  sliced  lemon, 
and  cook  about  21/0  hours,  or  until  the  fruit  looks 
transparent,  and  the  syrup  is  like  honey. 

MRS.   R.   G.   STRIEGLER. 


—  129  — 

Orange  Marmalade. 
The   rind   and   juice   of   three     oranges,     shredded 
finely;     %   quart   of   water. 

Soak  for  24  hours.  Add  1^^  qts.  of  sugar  to 
every  quart  of  the  mixture  and  boil  until  it  has  the 
color    and   consistency    of   honey. 

MISS  BERTHA  OCHS. 

Peach  Marmalade. 

To  each  pound  of  peeled  and  stoned  peaches,  cut 
in  halves,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  sugar  in  your  preserving  kettle,  add  water  to 
dissolve,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  your  peaches  which 
should  be  g6od  and  firm  so  as  not  to  cook  to  pieces. 
Boil  carefully  for  about  half  an  hour,  lift  out  of  the 
juice  and  arrange  on  platters  and  set  in  the  hot  sun 
to   partly   dry   and  toughen. 

Turn  them  occasionally.  The  next  day  heat  the 
syrup  to  boiling,  drop  in  the  peaches,  also  about  a 
dozen  kernels  of  the  peach-stones,  chopped  fine,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Cook  until  the  peaches  are 
clear  and  the  marmalade  is  jelly-like.  Test  it  by  cool- 
ing a  little  in  a  saucer. 

Pear  Marmalade  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Pie  Melon  Preserves. 
Slice  a  pie  melon  in  lengthwise  strips,  each  about 
two  inches  long.  Cover  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar 
and  water.  Let  them  remain  until  the  next  day. 
Drain  them.  Then  cook  with  equal  parts  of  melon  and 
sugar,   and   one   lemon   rind. 

IVIRS.  AUG.  ITZ. 


130  — 


CATSUP,  PICKbES,  CANNED 
VEGETABLES,  ETC. 


Chile  Sauce. 

6  cloz.  tomatoes ;  12  cups  vinegar ;  2  doz. 
onions;  24  tablespoons  sugar;  12  teaspoons  ginger; 
12  teaspoons  cloves;  12  teaspoons  cinnamon;  12 
teaspoons    salt. 

Red  pepper  to  suit  taste. 

Boil  4  or  5  hours,  or  down  to  about  half  of 
original   quantity. 

MRS.   AD.   WEHMEYER. 

Chile  Sauce. 

12  large  ripe  tomatoes;  2  cupfuls  sugar;  1  large 
onion;  1  tablespoonful  salt;  4  red  peppers;  1  table- 
spoonful  vinegar;  1  tablespoonful  each  of  ground 
allspice   and   cloves. 

Chop  fine  the  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers.  Add 
the   other   ingredients   and   boil   until   quite   thick. 

MRS.   HUGO  BASSE. 

Chile   Sauce. 

24  ripe  tomatoes;  8  tablespoons  vinegar;  6 
green  peppers ;  4  tablespoons  salt ;  4  large  onions ; 
2  cups  vinegar;  4  teaspoons  each  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  tied  in  a  bag. 

Chop  fine  the  peeled  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers. 
Add  other  ingredients  and  boil  slowly  2  hours,  adding 
vinegar  and  spices  1'5  minutes  before  it  is  done. 


—  131  — 

Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Peel  cucumbers,  hollow  out  seeds  and  pulps  with 
a  silver  spoon,  cut  into  eight  parts.  To  a  bucket  of 
cucumbers  use  1  cup  salt.  Salt  pieces  well  and 
allow  them  to  stand  24  hours.  Wipe  dry  with  clean 
cloth.  Cook  vinegar  thinned  with  water  to  taste; 
to  1  quart  vinegar  use  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
2   bay   leaves    and    a    handful   of   mustard   seed. 

Pack  in  fruit  jars,  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  all 
and   seal   tight. 

ROSA  DECHERT. 

Salt  Cucumber  Pickles. 

Wash  cucumbers  with  a  brush,  put  into  cold 
water  over  night.  Drain  them  the  next  morning  and 
pack  closely  into  jar,  one  layer  cucumbers,  then  a 
layer  grape  leaves  and  grapes,  and  so  on  till  jar  is 
filled. 

To  one  quart  of  water  add  one  cuj)  of  salt,  fill 
the  jar  with  the  salt  and  water,  cover  up,  with  a 
light  weight  on  top  to  keep  pickles  under  water. 

MRS.  JACOB  GOLD,  SR. 

Chow  Chow. 

Beans,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions. 

To  every  gallon  of  cut  vegetables  add:  1  table- 
spoonful  of  salt;  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper;  ly^ 
tablespoonfuls  of  mustard;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mo- 
lasses;    1/2  teaspoonful  of  cloves;     1  qt.  of  vinegar. 

Boil    half    an    hour. 

MRS.  JUL.  KLINGELHOEFER. 


—  132  — 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  green  cucumbers,  about  4  or  5  inches  long, 
soak  48  hours  in  strong  brine,  then  pour  off  the  brine 
and   rinse   with   cold   water. 

Boil  together  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  i/o  quart  of 
water.  Fill  jars  with  the  cucumbers,  add  to  a  two 
quart  jar  4  small  red  peppers,  y<^  teaspoon  whole  black 
peppers,  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  small  teaspoon, 
to  restore  the  green  color  of  cucumbers,  pour  the 
boiling    vinegar    over    and   seal   tight, 

ANNA  GOLD. 


Dill   Pickles. 

Wash  medium  sized  cucumbers,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  allow  to  remain  over  night.  Drain  them 
the  next  day,  wipe  drj-,  and  pack  closely  together  in 
stone  jars  using  plenty  of  fresh  dill  between  the 
layers  of  cucumbers.  To  each  half -gall  on  jar  add  2 
small  red  peppers,  1  teaspoonful  of  peppercorns,  2 
bay  leaves,  and  2  thin  rounds  of  horseradish  root.  To 
6  qts.  of  water  add  1  lb.  of  rock  salt  and  a  small 
teaspooTiful  of  alum.  Heat  the  mixture  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  1  quart  of  pure  cider  vinegar  and  pour  at 
once  over  the  pickles  covering  them  well.  Seal  tight- 
ly, while  hot.  If  fresh  dill  cannot  be  obtained,  use 
dill  seed  in  the  proportion  of  a  tablespoonful  to  each 
half-gallon  jar.  Fresh  dill  gives  a  better  flavor  to 
the    pickles. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 


—  133  — 

Chow  Chow. 

Chop  fine  tomatoes,  sweet  peppers,  and  onions. 
Salt  over  night,  (each  separately).  Next  morning  wash 
the  vegetables  and  drain  through  a  cheese  cloth. 
When  drained  put  into  jars.  Boil  vinegar  and  red 
peppers,  pour  over  and  seal  tightly. 

MRS.  H.   CORDES. 

Sweet    Pickled    Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers;  3  qts.  of  vinegar;  1  cup  of  water; 
2  cups  of  sugar;  black  pepper,  green  grapes  and  a 
branch   of   dill. 

Wash  well  one  bucket  of  medium  sized  cucumbers, 
place  in  brine  that  will  float  an  egg  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  wash  cucumbers  in  fresh 
water  and  wipe  dry.  Let  the  sugar,  vinegar  and 
water  come  to  a  boil,  add  cucumbers  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Press  the  cucumbers  in  a  glass  jar,  with 
a  little  whole  black  pepper,  a  small  bunch  of  green 
grapes  and  a  little  branch  of  dill.  Fill  with  the 
boiling    vinegar    and    seal. 

MRS.  F.   STEIN. 

Dill   Pickles. 

1  gal.  small  cucumbers ;  2  qts.  water ;  3  qts. 
vinegar;  1|3  qt.  salt;  4  tablespoonfuls  dill  seed; 
2  tablespoonfuls  allspice  and  hot  pepper;  grape  leaves 
and    a    small    piece    of    alum. 

Lay  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  put  them  in  jars  in  layers  with  grape 
leaves  and  spices.  Let  salt,  vinegar  and  water  come 
to   a   boil   and  pour   hot   over   cucumbers. 

MRS.    LOUIS    OEHLER. 


—  134  — 


Piccalilli. 


8  quarts  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  1  quart 
onions,  chopped  fine;  1  (juart  ^t'een  peppers,  chopped 
fine.  Mix  with  %  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand  over 
night. 

Then  squeeze  very  dry,  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  Avith 
good  vinegar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  2  doz.  cloves, 
1  doz.  allspice,  2  oz.  mustard,  y^  teaspoons  cayenne 
and  2  cups  sugar,  and  cook  about  one  hour. 

Put    up    and    seal    air-tight. 

MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 

Stuffed  Peppers  (Sweet). 

Core  the  peppers,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  over 
with  boiling  water,  and  stand  over  night.  Then  cut  up 
cabbage,  boil  in  salt  water  not  too  soft,  squeeze  the 
juice  from  the  cabbage  and  put  cabbage  in  peppers; 
make  a  sauce  of  1  cup  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  water, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  fcAv  piclde  spices,  let 
come  to  a  boil,  put  in  peppers  and  boil  for  a  few 
minutes,   put  in   jar   and  seal   up   tightly. 

MRS.  H.   CORDES. 

Stuffed   Pickled   Peppers. 

2  doz.  green  peppers;  1  small  head  of  Avhite 
cabbage;  4  large  white  onions;  3  tablespoonfuls 
mustard  seed;  i/o  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves;  ^ 
teaspoonful   powdered   allspice ;     2    teaspoonfuls    salt. 

Remove  the  stem  ends  of  the  peppers,  take  out 
all    the    seeds    and    place    in    strong   salt    water    for   48 


—  135  — 

hours.      After   48    hours    remove    from    salt   water    and 
dry  well. 

Chop  the  vegetables  fine  and  mix  well ;  fill  pep- 
pers and  replace  the  stem  ends  and  tie  with  white 
thread;  put  in  a  stone  jar  and  fill  with  boiled  vinegar. 
After  twenty-four  hours  boil  the  vinegar  again  and 
pour  over  peppers  and  repeat  in  another  twenty  four 
hours.       Cover  the  jar  and  put  in  a  dark  place. 

MRS.   ALVIN    STRIEGLER. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

1  qt.  small  cucumbers ;  1  qt.  onions ;  1  qt.  sliced 
green  tomatoes ;  1  qt.  cauliflower,  cut  into  small 
pieces ;  2  qts.  vjnegar ;  3  cups  sugar ;  8  table- 
spoonfuls  mustard ;  I/2  cup  flour ;  1  teaspoonfu] 
turmeric ;     1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Put  the  \'inegar  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
and  when  boiling,  add  the  well  mixed  dry  ingredients, 
and  then  the  vegetables,  which  previously  must  have 
been  boiled  about  ten  minutes  in  weak  vinegar. 

MRS.   BANNOWSKY. 

Sweet    Mixed    Pickles. 

4  tablespoons  mustard  seed;  2  tablespoons  ginger; 
4  tablespoons  celery  seed ;  1  tablespoon  ground 
mustard;  1  tablespoon  mace;  1  tablespoon  turmeric; 
1    tablespoon   cinnamon   bark ;     1   qt.   sugar. 

Soak  vegetables  over  night  in  brine  strong 
enough  to  carry  an  egg.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar,  and 
spices    about    5    minutes,      then    put    in    well      drained 


—  136  — 

vegetables,  let  simmer  for  about  5  minutes,  put  in  jars, 

and   seal   Avliile   hot.      This   is   enough   for   one   peek   of 

pickles. 

MRS.    AD.    WEHMEYER. 


Sweet    Mixed    Pickles. 

Small  head  of  cauliflower;  1  qt.  small  carrots; 
small  head  of  cabbage;  1  qt.  of  beans;  one  or  two 
quarts  of  small  white  onions ;  1  qt.  of  small  cucumbers ; 
spices   and  vinegar   sauce. 

Peel  onions  the  day  before  and  cover  with  salt 
over  night.  Cook  each  kind  of  vegetable  in  separate 
salt-water  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  with  the  exception 
of  the  cucumbers.  The  cucumbers  should  not  be  over 
two  inches  long,  and  after  washing,  are  also  covered 
with  salt  over  night,  and  are  not  cooked,  only  drained 
from   the   brine   next    day. 

Mix  all  the  vegetables,  and  fill  into  glass  jars, 
covering  them  with  the  following  vinegar  sauce : 

To  3  pints  of  vinegar  take  2  pints   of  water,   one 

lb.    of    sugar,    a    little    allspice,    mustard     seed,    a    few 

small  red  peppers,  whole  black  peppers,  and  any  other 

spices   you   may    like.     Let   this   come   to   boiling   point 

and    pour    at    once    over    the    pickles,    covering    them 

well.     Seal  while  hot. 

MRS.   WM.    WEYRICH. 


—  137  — 

Tomato  Catsup. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar;  1/2  gallon  of  vinegar;  1  gallon  of  tomato 
juice;  1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper;  1  teaspoon  of  red 
pepper;     1  teaspoon  of  mustard. 

Let  all  boil  1  hour,  then  bottle  while  hot,  and  seal. 

MKS.    G.   E.   WRIGHT. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

1  gal.  tomatoes  (strained) ;  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cloves;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon;  2  table- 
spoonfuls   of    allspice;      11/2    pints    of    vinegar. 

Boil    down    to    one-half    original    quantity. 

MRS.   HUGO  BASSE. 

Sweet  pickled  Peaches  and  Plums. 

8  lbs.  fruit;  1  qt.  vinegar;  4  lbs.  sugar;  2  oz. 
whole   cinnamon;     2   oz.   cloves. 

Preferably  take  clingstone  peaches,  either  peel  or 
rub  off  down  with  coarse  towel.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar 
and  spices  5  minutes,  put  in  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time, 
with  a  clove  inserted  into  each.  When  done,  test 
by  pricking  with  a  fork,  remove,  place  in  jars  and  use 
liquid  for  remaining  fruit.  When  fruit  are  all  in  jars, 
simmer  down  the  liquid  to  the  desired  consistency 
(about  half  the  original  quantity),  pour  over  fruit  and 
seal  while  very  hot. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 
MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 


—  138  — 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. 

Cut  up  1  peek  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Strain  off  liquid,  mix 
tomatoes  with  1  teaspoonful  each  of  black  pepper, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon ;  12  small  red  peppers ;  3 
onions ;      1    cup    brown    sugar. 

Cover    with    vinegar    and    boil    for    3    hours. 

Put  in  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

MISS    IRMA    OCHS. 

Sweet  Peach  Pickle. 

10  lbs.  of  peaches;  4  lbs.  of  sugar;  1  qt.  of  good 
vinegar ;  whole  black  peppers ;  2  oz.  of  stick  cinna- 
mon;    1  oz.  of  whole  cloves. 

Select  small,  firm  peaches.  Dip  them  in  boiling 
water,  then  wipe  dry.  Boil  together  for  five  minutes 
the  sugar,  vinegar,  and  spices.  Then  put  in  one 
layer  of  peaches  and  let  boil  from  three  to  five 
minutes ;  take  out  and  put  in  a  jar.  Add  peaches 
again  until  all  are  used.  Fill  each  jar  with  the  syrup 
and    seal. 

MRS.   E.  L.   KOTT. 
MRS.  HENRY  BASSE. 

Canned  Beans. 

String  and  slice  beans,  boil  in  a  little  salt  water 
until   tender,   drain   and   cool. 

Boil  1/^  cup  water;  Yo  cup  vinegar;  1  table- 
spoonful  sugar.  When  cold,  pour  over  beans  in  jars 
and  seal,   taking  care  not  to   fill  the  jars  too   closely. 

MRS.    G.   E.   WRIGHT. 


—  139  — 

Canned  Beans. 

Boil  in  salt  water,  put  into  jars,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  one  of  sugar  to  each  quart 
jar.  Fill  jar  with  freshly  boiled  water,  and  seal  at  once. 

Preserved  Carrots. 

Carrots ;  sugar ;  vinegar ;  cinnamon ;  cloves  and 
lemon    peeling. 

Wash  carrots  well,  cook  until  tender,  pull  off  the 
skin,  cut  in  small  pieces  lengthwise.  Then  for  one 
pound  of  carrots  take  one  pound  of  sugar,  boiling 
sugar  with  a  little  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Add 
some  vinegar,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  lemon  peeling,  also 
carrots.  Boil  all  until  carrots  are  clear  as  crystal. 
When  cool  put  in  jars  or  glasses. 

MRS.   0.  W.   STRIEGLER. 

Canned   Com. 

9  cups  of  corn;     1  cup  of  sugar;     1  cup  of  salt; 

1  cup   of  water. 

Boil   five   minutes,   pour   into   jars   while   hot. 

MRS.    WM.   CRENWELGE. 

Com   Relish. 

10  cups  corn,  cut  from  cob;  10  cups  cabbage, 
chopped  fine;  5  large  sweet  red  peppers,  chopped 
fine;      1/2    quart    vinegar,    white;      3    tablespoons    salt; 

2  cups  sugar ;     4   tablespoons  white   mustard   seed ;     2 
tablespoons    celery   seed. 

Mix  thoroughly   and   cook   half   hour. 

MRS.  MAX  BIERSCHAVALE. 


—  140  — 

MISCELLANEOUS. 


A  Few  Useful  Hints. 

1.  Never  put  knives  with  ivory  handles  in  water. 
Hot  water  causes  them  to  crack  and  discolor. 

2.  Saturate  ink  spot  with  lemon  juice,  then  cover 
with   salt.     Let   stand   in   sun   for   several   hours. 

3.  Cut  glass  should  be  washed  and  rinsed  in  the 
same  temperature,   not  too   hot. 

4.  Stains  on  the  hands  can  be  removed  by  us- 
ing salt  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  lemon  juice  and  salt 
together,  rub  this  on  the  stains,  then  rinse  the  hands 
in   clean   warm  water. 

META    DIETZ. 

Warm  Hands  on  a  Cold  Wash  Day. 

If  M^ashing  on  a  cold  day  try  this :  Lay  your 
clothes  pins  with  sack  in  a  hot  oven  until  you  get 
ready  to  hang  out  your  clothes.  You  have  no  idea 
how  it  will  warm  your  hands  to  take  out  the  warm 
pins. 

MRS.    OTTO   KOLMEIER. 

Castor  Oil  a  Pleasure. 

Children  make  no  fuss  about  taking  castor  oil  if 
it  is  given  this  way :  Take  1  cup  milk,  1'  cup  molasses, 
V2  cup  sugar,  1/2  cup  castor  oil,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons ginger,  a  little  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  paste.  Roll  and  cut  out  in  shapes  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  One  or  two  of  these  are  as  good  as  a 
dose  of  castor  oil. 

MRS.   OTTO  KOLMEIER. 


—  141  — 

Seven   Rules  for  Stains. 

1.  Remove  mildew  stains  by  boiling  the  garment 
in  cream  of  tartav-water,  and  then  laying  in  the  sun. 

2.  Equal  parts  of  turpentine  and  ammonia  will 
remove  hardened  paint  from  clothing. 

3.  Borax  will  remove  the  leather  stains  made  by 
shoes  on  light  colored  stockings. 

4.  Lemon  will  remove  match  scratches  from  paint. 

5.  Spirits  of  camphor  wall   take  off  peach  stains. 

6.  Ammonia  will  remove  grease  stains  from  white 
goods. 

7.  Ether  will  remove  stains  without  leaving-  a 
ring   on   the   material. 

How  to  Preserve  a  Husband. 

Be  careful  in  your  selection;  do  not  choose  too 
young,  and  take  only  such  varieties  as  have  been 
reared  in  a  good  moral  atmosphere.  When  once  de- 
cided upon  and  settled,  let  that  part  remain  forever 
settled,  and  give  your  entire  thought  to  preparation 
for  domestic  use.  Some  insist  on  keeping  them  in  a 
pickle,  while  others  are  constantly  getting  them  in  hot 
water.  Even  poor  varieties  may  be  made  sweet,  tender 
and  good  by  garnishing  them  with  patience,  well 
sweetened  with  smiles,  and  flavored  wdth  kisses  to 
taste;  then  wrap  well  in  a  mantle  of  charity,  keep 
warm  with  a  steady  fire  of  domestic  devotion,  and 
serve  with  peaches  and  cream.  When  thus  prepared 
they  will  keep  for  years. 

MRS.    LOUISE   WRIGHT. 


PRINTED    BY 

FREDERICKSBURG    PUBLISHING    CO. 

FREDERICKSBURG.  TEXAS 

19  16 


p  Yoiuir  Money  Wi 
ifflbbors   ^   ^    ^ 


They  are  worthy  of  your  confi- 
dence and  strive  harder  to  please 
you  than  outsiders  will. 

Your  Home  Printery  ^  ^  ^ 

Does  as  good  and  conscientious 
work  as  can  be  obtained  any- 
where, and  at  reasonable  prices. 
We  strive  to  please  you  because 
we  are  here  to  "stay"  and  con- 
sider you  our  neighbors. 


Fredericksburg  Publishing  Co. 

ROBT.   PENNIGER,    MANAGER 

Commercial  Printers,  Stationers 
and  Publishers 


THIS   COOK    BOOK   WAS    PRINTED    BY   THIS    PRINTERY 


Vn—iliiWiw""^ 


VelV/l    ^^  '^"^  <^REEN  CAN. 
Tvirtl    Pure  iSuf^ar  Cane  Syrup. 

Absolutely  pui'e  and  wholesome. 
You  simply  can't  know  waffles  or 
biscuit  at  their  best  until  you're 
eaten  tliem  with— VELVA. 


TClVtt  Pure  Sugar  Cane  Syrup 
blended  with  a  smaller  portion  of 
Corn  Syrup.  Splendid  for  eating 
as  well  as  excellent  for  baking 
and  candy  making.  Both  green 
and  RED  in  10c  cans  and  up. 


Citizens 
Garage 


JOSEPH  BROS. 

PROPRIETORS 

(Next  to  Bank  of  Fredericksburg) 


Home  For  the 


Repairing  on  all  kinds 
of  automobiles  prompt- 
ly done. 


WITHOUT  A    PEER 

Who  Can  Bea*  It? 

San  Anionic  Brewing  Associaiion 


Fredericksburg  South  Heights. 


THE  ONLY  RESTRICTED 
RESIDENT  ADDITION  IN 
FREDERICKSBURG. 


The  Fredericksburg  Land  Co. 


Yarborough's  Tailor  Sliop, 

First-Class 

CLEANING  AND  PRESSING 

done  on  short  notice. 
'Phone  No.  18.        Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


^\..  ^^ ALTER, 

W  A  T  C  H  ]\f  A  K  E  R    AMD    J  E  W  E  L  K  R 

Fine  line  of  Fashionable  Jewelry,  Cut  Glass  and  Silver- 
ware. Expert  repairing  of  Watches,  Ciocks,  etc.  Head- 
quarters for  Edison  Phonographs  and  Records. 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


Strong  men  from 
little  laddies  grow 


if  their  food  is  absolute- 
ly pure  and  contains  al? 
the  elements  essential 
to  a  healthy,  all-around 
development. 

Millions  of  children  in 
far  away  countries  grow  up 
into  sturdy  manhood  and 
womanhood  each  year  on  a 
diet  principally  of  rice. 

But  not  on  "polished"  rice.  The  rice  sold 
generally  throughout  the  United  States  is 
polished  and  coated  with  glucose  and  talc. 
It  has  lost  some  of  its  most  important  bone 
and  muscle  building  elements. 

Give  your  children  pure  Comet  Unkoted 
Rice — the  kind  that  will  help  them  to  grow 
up  into  strong,  healthy  men  and  women. 
Try  it — it  has  a  new  flavor  they  will  like. 
Have  your  grocer  send  you  a  trial  package 
of 


C®m^yfJf(QJ£[^ 


Fredericksburg  Bakery 

M.  TICHMAN,  Proprietor 

Our  Bread,  Cakes,  Pies,  Etc.  are  made 
from  pure  wholesome  flour  and  are  guar- 
anteed to  be  GOOD. 


A  Summary 

of  the  Recipes  in  this  Book  leaves  the  impres- 
sion that  care  must  be  exercised  in  the  selection 
of  INGREDIENTS  in  the  preparation  of  ALL 
GOOD  things  to  eat,  and  that  QUALITY  is  the 
WATCHWORD  in  securinsr  these. 


Henke 

& 

HIRSCH 


consider  Quality  in  preference  to  quantity  in 
ALL  their  merchandise,  and  you  may  feel 
secure  that  you  get  the  best  of  what  is  to  be 
had  when  you  buy  at  their  store.  No  Schemes, 
No  Baits,  but  you  will  find  your  money  will 
buy  just  as  much,  or  even  more,  there,  and 
reliable  goods,  at  that,  as  anywhere. 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


Be  Fair== 

Let  the  good  housewife  be  the  judge  of  the 
flour  with  which  to  bake  the  family  bread.  If 
she  has  ever  tried  it  once  she  will  call  for 


46 


Choctaw^'  Flour 


It  is  absolutely  pure  and  makes  a  large 
wholesome  loaf.  There  are  no  disappointments 
on  ''baking  day"  when  this  splendid  flour  is 
used.     Ask  your  grocer  for  ''Choctaw"  flour. 

Farmers  Produce  Co. 


ew  York  Racket 


5c,  lOc;  iSc  and 
Kodaks  and  Kodak 


Goods 


>^- 


iiULILESS 


•■«STORGH\& 

FOR  SfllRT^C0LLAR5,CUFFvS,ATHD  FIME  LltltN. 


Fredericksburg  Bottling  Works 

JACOB  ICRAUS;  Prc^prietor 

MANUFACTURER   OF   FINE 

Soda  and  Mineral  Water 

and  Coca  Cola. 

Only  the  Best  of  Extracts  Used.    Your  Orders  Solicited. 


ED.    KNOPP 

TIIST    SHOP 

Dealer  in  Stoves,  Tin  and  Enamelware.     Agent 
for  the  ''White  Line"  Washing  Machines. 


OSCAR  ICRAUSICOPF 

DEALER    IN 

Farm  Iii^plements,  Water  Supply  Materia!, 

The  Auto  Oil  Aermoter  Windmill, 

Sanitary  P!ism.bing,  Etc. 


AKE  your  cake  and  candy  according 
to  directions,  and  hiij  your  Grocer- 
ies from  us  and  you  will  meet  with  suc- 
cess and  always  be  happy. 

CHAS.  SCHWARZ. 


A  New  Idea  in  Baking 

Ordinary  baking  powders  waste  much 
of  their  strength  in  the  mixing  bowl. 
The  new  idea  is  a  baking  powder  that 
rises  in  the  oven  while  the  baking  goes  on. 

Princine 

Pure  Phosphate  Baking  Powder 

does  good  work  in  the  oven.  The 
result  is  so  much  better  that  I  guaran- 
tee you  can  improve  any  baking  recipe 
ni  this  book  with  PRINCINE  or  I 
will  refund  your  money. 

"Excellent"  says  Prof.  Allyn. 

"Pure"  says  McCann,  of  the  N.  Y.  GLOBE. 

"Star"  says  the  Good  Housekeeping  Bureau  of 

Pure   Foods— Dr.   H.   W.   Wiley,   Director. 
"Right"  says  the  Forecast  Magazine. 

Miss  Princine 

Richmond,  Virginia. 


Five  Leading  Points  of  the 

MAXWELL  AUTOMOBILE 

Beauty,  Service,  Endurance,  Simplicity,  Economy. 

What  more  could  you  ask?  The   "Maxwell"   has  all  the 
good  points  to  be  found  in  much  higher  priced  cars.    It  is 
the  RIGHT  CAR  at  the  RIGHT  PRICE  for  everyone  de- 
siriag  an  automobile.    It  is  the  car  that  you  will  eventually 
buy.     For  further  particulars  call  on 

E    J.  KOENIG.   LOCAL  AGKNT.  FRKDERICKSBURQ,  TKXAS 

R.  o.  Bo:s  ^\ 

General  Merchandise 

Carry  a  well  selected  Stock  of  Dry  Goods, 
Clothing,  Boots,  Shoes,  Hats,  Staple  and  Fancy 
Groceries. 

THE  BEST  OF  EVERYTHING. 

m 

m\ii 

*      KOLMEIER 
& 

^^^^??r;'-*^^i^^~"-^--- 

gat  KLiER 

UHM^SmmSuXSiS^m 

SI 

^^^^mmt^^^^M                                        1 

t 

TmssSSS!-^ 

r 

stoves.  Tinware, 
Rooflnff,  Guttering. 
Builder*'  Hardware. 
Tanks  Made  to  Order. 
Repairing  a  Specialty. 

■  W?V^ 

'^^""' 

k 

w 

» 

[          Fredericksburg 
Texas 

The  Vogue 

Fine  Millinery,  Furnishing,  Trimming  and  Fancy  Dress 
Goods.  Up-to-the-minute  as  to  Fashion,  have  individuality, 
and  are  modest  in  price. 

The  Original  Ladies  Store. 

ANNA  aOLD.  FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


F.    H.   PETERMANN 


Fresh  Meats,  Sausage,  Lard,  Etc.    Prompt 

Delivery.    Telephone  No.  77. 
FREDERICKSBURG,      -    -    -    -     TEXAS. 

We  Have  It  or  We  Will  Get  It. 

It  will  pay  you  to  come  here  for  anything  in  the  drug 
line,  because  we  stock  all  worthy  remedies  and  toilet  prepa- 
rations as  soon  as  they  are  placed  on  the  market. 

Of  course,  you  may  have  occasional  wants  which  we  can 
not  supply,  but  in  such  cases  we  are  always  glad    to  make 
special  orders  for  what  is  wanted. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  favor  our  customers  in  this  way  and  no 
extra  charge  is  made  for  the  special  service. 

HANISGH  &  PAYNE,  Druggists,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

ROBERT  BLUM, 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE, 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Buy  all  Country  Produce.     Pioneer 
Flour,  best  on  ^he  market. 


CHEEK  &  NEAL'S 

Coffees 


6i 


Good  'till  the 
last  drop. " 


Ask  Your  Grocer. 


E.  H.  Hiley 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 

Flour,  Grain  and  Cotton  Seed, 

Gasoline,  Kerosene 
and  Lubricating  Oils. 

Proprietor  Acme  Bottling  Works 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS 

KLAERNErS  OPERA  HOUSE  BAR 

Fredericksburg,  Texas 

Fine  Wines,  Liquors,  Cigars 
Ice  Cold  Beer 

A  cordial  invitation  to  everybody  to  make 
this  place  their  headquarters  when  in  Frede- 
ricksburg. 

Hilmar  &  Felix  Klaerner,  Prop's. 


CLARENCE  MARTIN  THOMAS  J  .    MARTI  N 

MARTIN  &  MARTIN 

LAWYERS 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS 


SAGEBIEL   MILLINERY  CO. 

has    just    received    a  beautiful  line  of 

Fall  and  Winter  Hats 

for  Ladies  and  Children.  Also  Buckles,  Buttons,  Etc. 
Please  visit  our  store.  We  gladly  assist  you  in  making 
your  selections,  if  you  wish. 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS 


SEPARATORS  WASHING  MACHINES 

Otto  Kolmeier 

Hardware,  Tinware,   Roofing,  Guttering, 

Ranges,  Cooking,  and  Heating  Stoves,  Guns, 
Ammunition  of  all  kinds,  and  Fishing  Tackle. 
Galvanized  Tanks  Made  to  Order. 

REFRIGERATORS.  ICELESS  COOLERS 


J»«jii-i-i  '■ 


ALFRED    GO 

Fruit  Stand, 

Dealer  in 
Fruit,  Gandiefe   and   Groceries. 


TO  THE  LADIES: 

When  serving  Cakes  or  other 
Good  Things  to  eat,  please  do  not 
forget  DUERLER'S  DELICIOUS 
CANDIES,  always  to  be  had  from 
all  reliable  dealers. 

G.  A.  DUERLER  MFG.  CO, 

Texas    Pioneer    Candy    Factory, 

San  Antonio,  Texas. 


When  you  think  of  Dreiss^ 

Think  of  Egg  Noodles; 
When  you  think  of  Egg  Noodles, 

Think  of  Dreiss^  ^^Lion"  Brand. 

^MADE  THE  GERMAN  WAY^^ 

San  Antonio  Macaroni  Factory, 
Where  Cleanliness  is  Climax, 

San  Antonio,  Texas. 


Good  Coffee  is  as  essential  to 
the  meal  as  good  cooking. 

JOHN   BREMOND'S 

High  Grade 
ROASTED  COFFEE 

is  the  production  of  more  than 
half  a  century  of  careful  study. 

'TRY  IT"  "IT'S  GOOD" 

CITIZENS  BANK 

^unincorporated; 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

WILL  BE  APPRECIATIVE  OF  YOUR  PATRONAGE. 

Capital   Stock    $30,000 

Surplus    5,000 

Individual   Responsibility  over 

this 200,000 

Alfred  Vander  Stucken,  Pi-esident. 
Oscar  Krauskopf,  Vice-President. 
Wm.  Bierschwale,  Cashier. 

Max  J.   Bierschwale,   Assistant  Cashier. 


Up-Town  Meat  Market, 

Main  Street,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Fresh  Beef,  Mutton,   Sausage, 

Always  on  Hand. 

W.  C.  HENKE,  Proprietor. 
Crwin  Grobe 

Tonsorial   Artist 


Up-To- Date- Service. 

Main  Street,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

JUENKE  &  SCHOENEWOLF 

DEALERS  IN 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE 

Ladiea'   and    Gents'    Furnishing   Goods,   Dry 
Goods,  Groceries,  Shelf  Hardware,  All  Country- 
Produce. 


GEO.  L.  STEBBINS 

DENTIST 
Gold  Building,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Miss  Bertha  Priess  Mrs.  H.  W.  Kusenberger 

THE  PARISIAN 

Priess  &  Kusenberger 

Millinery,  Fancy    Dress    Goods, 

Notions,  Ladies  Furnishings  and 

Ready-to-Wear. 

Patronize  a  Home  Industry  by  using 

Pure  Crystallized  Ice 

Manufactured  at 

Stein's  Ice  Factory. 

Prompt  Delivery.  Phone  No.  163  F  2 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 

OLD  STAND  MEAT  MARKET 

Main  Street,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

RICHARD  HENKE  Proprietor. 

Fresh  Beef,  Pork,  Mutton  and  Sausage   Always 

on  Hand. 

AUG.  OAMERON. 

DRY  GOODS,  CLOTHING,  SHOES,  HATS 
AND  FANCY  GROCERIES. 
AGENT    BELLE  OF  WICHITA    FLOUR - 
BEST  MADE. 

TELEPHONE  75 
FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


Oppen  iCiner  Grocer  Co., 

H.  GOLDSCHMIDT,  Manager. 

Selling   to   Merchants    exclusively. 

Distributors  of  tlie 

Famous  Blue  Jay  Fancy  Pure  Foods. 

The  Blue  Jay  on  the  Can  or  Package 
Stands  far  SUPREME  QUALITY. 

BOTH  'PHONES. 

Fredericksburg,     ....  Texas. 


We  Carry  in  Stock 

the  simple  and  easy-running 
DEERING  BINDERS,  J.  I.  CASE  THRESHING  MA- 
CHINES, MOLINE  AND  CANTON  (single  and  double) 
RIDING  PLANTERS  AND  CULTIVATORS,  BAIN 
WAGONS,  ANCHOR  BRAND  BUGGIES,  SURRIES, 
AND  HACKS,  HAY  RAKES,  GRASS  MOWERS,  HAY 
PRESSES,  ETC. 

All   products   of  the   best   factories   kept   in   stock. 
Come  and  see  us  if  in  need  of  anything  in  this  line. 

Fredericksburg,      ....      Texas. 


A  ''Secret''  worth  kno wing- 
That   DAIRY   brand  Hams  and   DAIRY   Breakfast 
Bacon  and  DAIRY  Lard  is  the  only  brand    in  the  United 
States  having  the 

HORMEL  CURE 

The  Long  Process  Cure. 

On  sale  at  various  stores  in  Fredericksburg. 

Geo.  A.  Hormel  &  Company, 

AUSTIN.  MINN. 


PERFECTION  OIL  COOKER 


No 
Smoke 


No 
Smell 


Insures  a  cool  comfortable  kitchen.  EUPION  Family 
Safety  Oil  for  Stoves  and  Lamps.  If  unable  to  i-ecure  from 
your  dealer  communicate  with 

PIERCE  FORDYCE  OIL  ASS'N. 

AGENTS  EVERYWHERE. 


2    w> 

C    c^  CQ     llJ    ...  < 


«^ 


-^      •■'^      -J^ 

Co      bD    O 


y^ 


0  Qj^ 


Q  !  < 


CO  p: 


PETER'S 

Saloon  an&  ®pera  Douse 

JteBericIisbutg,  Zexas 
ED.  PETER,  Proprietor 

WINES,  IslQUORS  ANPeiQARS 
lIlp«to*Date  IRestaurant 

A  pleasant  place  where  you  and  your  friends  are  always 
welcome.     Your  patronage  appreciated. 


smiil^n^. 


J.  P.  Moore  &  Co. 

NEW  AND  SECOND-HAND 

FURNITURE 

Buy,  Sell,  Trade,  Rent  or  Exchange 


Martin  Telephone  Company, 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 

LOCAL    AND    LONG    DISTANCE. 

If  you  want  to  get  the  principal 
places  in  Gillespie,  Llano,  Mason 
and  Blanco  counties,  get  a  Martin 
Telephone. 

DAVID  MARTIN,  PRESIDENT. 

AUGUST    ALBERTHAL, 

Dealer  in 

Dry  Goods,  Groceries,  Shoes, 
Hats  and  Crockery. 

Country  Produce  bought  and  sold. 

WHEN  in  need  of  anything  to 
wear  or  eat  call  at  the  store 
where    your    DolEars    have 
more  Cents--and  that  means 

BURRIER-MAIER  CO. 

A.  P.  C.  Petsch.  R.  G.  Striegler. 

THE  LOAN  AND  ABSTRACT  CO. 

"The  Interest  of  our  Clients  first." 

ABSTRACTS,  LOANS,  COLLECTIONS,  REAL  ESTATE. 

Gold  Building',  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


BANK  OF  FREDERICKSBURG, 

(^UN :  N  CO  KPO  hated; 

Member  Member 

American  Bankers'  Ass.  Texas  Bankers'  Ass'n. 

One  of  the  Oldest  and  Strongest  Banks  in  the  West. 

Stockholders : 

Temple   D.    Smith,  Adolph   Gold, 

Albert  Koennecke,  Mrs.  Fred.  Walter, 

Else  Walter. 

YOUR  MONEY  IN  THIS  BANK  IS  INSURED  AGAINST 
ALL  LOSS  BY  ROBBERY  OR  FIRE. 

Temple  D.  Smith,  Pres.         Ad.  Gold,  Active  Vice-Pres. 
Alb.  Koennecke,  Cashier.  E.  0.  Bierschwale,  Asst.  Cashier 


WhiteHouseFlour 


<<DA«»<fr    B%%«    T#fcr»<l*'^ 


Manufactured  by 

Seguin  Milling  & 
Power  Company, 


SEGUIN,  TEXAS. 


The  Guenther  Milling  Co. 

Manufacturers  of 

HIGH   GRADE  FLOURS, 

SAN  ANTONIO,  TEXAS. 

"LIBERTY  BELL" 
"FINEST"  g^g^jg 

"GOLDEN  ROD" 
"ROSEBUDS" 


RUDOLPH'S    SALO 

MAIN   STREET,    FRPI  D  E  R  ICKSBU  RG,  TEXAS. 
HILMAR   WEBER,   PROPRIETOR. 


COLD  BEER,  SODA  and  MINERAL  WATER 

AND  DOMESTIC  CIGARS. 

Your  Patronage  RespectfuBly  Solicited. 


PETER    ROEDER, 

Proprietor 

UP-TOWN  LIVERY  STABLE. 

Bus   meets   all   Trains.     Baggage  Jransfer  Line. 
Cater  Especially  to  the  Wants  of  Traveling  Men. 

'Phone  No,  9,    Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


JOS.    SCHAETTER  &  SON, 

Dealers   in 
FURNITURE    OF   EVERY   KIND,    CARPETS, 
LINOLEUM,  PICTURES  AND  DECORATIONS 
FOR  THE  HOME. 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Alfred  P.  C.  Petsch 

LAWYER 

Gold  Building-,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Fredericksburg's  Leading 

Mercantile  Establishment. 

Always  on  the  alert  for  new  and  serviceable  Mer- 
chandise for  its  many  Friends  and  Patrons.  Acquaint 
yourself  with  its  management. 

ROSENWASSER  &  LEVY, 

"The  Clothiers." 

J.  R.  HANKINSON, 

Agent    for 

MAGNOLIA       OILS       AND        GASOLINE. 
NEW    PERFECTION    COAL     OIL    STOVES, 

The   Best   on   the   Market. 


^Cf^D    UNIVERSAL  CAR 

There's  a  reason  why  there  are  more  than  one  million 
three  hundred  thousand  Ford  cars  in  use  today,  and 
that  reason  is  based  on  the  matchless  service  and 
economy  of  Ford  cars.  Universal  service  is  the  most 
conclusive  evidence  of  genuine  value.  That  is  one 
good  reason.  Buy  today — Touring  Car  $360;  Run- 
about $345;     Chassis  $325,  f.  o.  b.  Detroit.     On  sale  at 

M^yj^M.^    IVVri  I     OC    V^\J,,  Frodorlcksburd,  Texas 


THE    CENTRAL    GARAGE, 

Local  Agents  for 

Overland  and  Hupmobiles. 

Garage  and  Auto  Supplies.    Pennsylvania  Vacuum 
Tires.     Phone  us  your  Auto  Wants. 

GROBE   &    ECKHARDT. 

SCHMIDT   BROS. 

PROPRIETORS 

CAPITOL    SALOON 

TELEPHONE   NO.   22. 

Choice  Wines,   Liquors  and  Cigars. 

Out-of-Town  Orders  Promptly  Filled. 

FREDERICKSBURG, •  •  •  •  TEXAS. 

E.  C   Hansen.  H.  R.  Hohenberger. 

SQUARE  DEAL  REALTY  CO. 

Headquarters  for 

Farms,  Ranches  and  City  Property. 

LOANS  MADE  PROMPTLY. 
FREDERICKSBURG,      -     ...     -    TEXAS. 


Ilv***& 


^! 


';;;  SAN  AN'iONtO,  T&X. 


MR  FLOUR 


is  the  ideal  Flour. 

It  is  not  bleached 

by   any  chemicals 

nor  whitened  by 

any  unnatural  process. 


PifliieefFloyflills, 

Established  1851. 
Daily  Capacity  -  -   laOO  Barrels, 


^k^SStB^^-^  Wi^e  Women  use  Pioneer  Flour. 


e: 


A  COFFEI 


A  Morning  Necessity 

An  Evening  Pleasure 

Daily  Strength  for  Daily  Need 

Has  no  Substitute 

Make  it  Right 

Ask  for  our  Coffee  Book 


ORRISON   COFFEE   CO., 

SAN  ANTONIO,  TEXAS. 


EAT  TEXAS  MADE  PICKLES. 

Ask  your  grocers  for  our  Pickles,  not  because  they 
are  grown  in  Texas  and  made  in  Houston,  but  because 
they  are  best. 

OUR  EXTRACTS 

are  pure,   made   from   the   best   material   possible. — Ask 
for  them. 

Price-Booker  Manufacturing  Co., 

HOUSTON,    TEXAS. 


Food  Value  of  Crackers  Greater  Than  f/ieat. 

Tliat  the  humble  soda  cracker  when  made  from  the 
best  rav/  materials  and  properly  baked  contains  more 
food  units  (or  calories)  tlian  the  same  weight  of  porter- 
house steak  is  the  deliberate  conclusion  of  Dr.  W.  O.  At- 
water  of  the  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture.  Dr.  Atwater 
fully  explains  this  remarkable  fact  in  Bulletin  142  of  the 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (Principles  of  Nutrition 
and  Nutritive  Value  of  Pood).  He  shows  that  porterhouse 
steak  contains  r,100  food  units  and  the  soda  cracker  1,875 
food  units  to  the  pound. 

By  insisting"  on  Consuma  Biscuit  you  secure  the  best 
family  biscuit  on  the  market,  and  the  best  is  none  to 
good  when  the  health  and  ei^iciency  of  your  family  are 
in  question. 

The  next  time  you  buy  crackers  ask  for 

CONSUMA  BISCUIT,  '  Tha  NutrJous  Cracker." 

IvFade  by  Consumers  Biscuit  Company  in  Nevv'  Orleans. 


Robert  S.  Rlett. 

Dealer  in 

Flour,  Grain,  May   and  Feedstuff. 


Cottonseed,  Hides,  Poultry  and  Country  Produce  boug-ht 

Get  my  Prices  before  selling  elsewhere. 

'PHONE  NO.  4,  FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


POTATINE 

is  the  finest  imported 

POTATO  FLOUR 

and    is   indispensible    in    making    finest 
pastry,  gravies,  thicknings,  etc. 

Strohmeyer  &  Arpe  Co., 

New  York. 


Why  not   own  your  own  home? 
F.  STEIN  &  SON 

Dealers  in 

LUMBER 
Fredericksburg,     =    =    =    ==    Texas 

Call  on  OLHLER  BROS.,^'Tex~^ 

if  in  the  market  for 

Reapers,  Mowers,  Rakes,  Cultivators,  Wagons 

Cream  Separators,   Corn  Sheller    and 

Wheat    Threshers    Combined, 

Tractors  and  Engines. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  481  201  3 


