THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 

NCC  Gift  Fund 


C641.5 
F912m 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


irUNG-CH  for  Duke  U 


FRIES 
MEMORIAL 

MORAVIAN 
CHURCH 

history  customs  recipes 


There  are  many  Cookbooks 

in  this  town. 
I'm  sure  you'll  like  this  one, 

It's  the  best  one  around. 
The  Ladies  of  Fries  are  excellent  cooks, 
And  real  Moravian  recipes  you'll 

find  in  this  book. 
There  is  Moravian  Sugar  Cake 

and  Cookies  by  the  pound. 
Cakes  and  Pies  and  Veggies, 

Now  how  does  that  sound? 
Be  sure  you  put  your  order  in 

So  you  can  get  this  book. 

To  The  Women's  Fellowship 

of 

Fries  Memorial  Church 

Olive  J.  Ring  Klapp,  1988 


Fries  Memorial  Moravian  Church 


1543-9 


-A- 


MORAVIAN  HISTORY 


The  Moravian  Church  is  generally  recognized  to  be  the 
oldest  Protestant  denomination,  dating  back  to  1457.  It  grew 
out  of  a  movement  led  by  John  Hus  of  Bohemia.  In  1415, 
John  Hus  was  burned  at  the  stake,  because  he  refused  to 
give  up  his  belief  that  the  doctrines  set  forth  in  the  Bible 
should  be  followed  by  Christians.  The  effects  of  the  Thirty 
Years'  War,  which  ended  in  1648,  reduced  the  Brethren  to  a 
few  in  Central  Europe. 

In  1722,  under  the  leadership  of  Count  Zinzendroft,  the 
church  was  revived  in  Germany. 

Soon,  the  Moravians  launched  a  world-wide  program  of 
foreign  missions,  spreading  to  the  continent  and  to  the  British 
Isles.  Christian  concern  for  the  American  Indian  brought 
Moravians  to  Georgia,  then  to  Pennsylvania,  and  on  to  North 
Carolina.  Here,  in  1753,  they  had  a  100,000  acre  tract, 
which  they  called  "Wachovia".  The  central  community  of 
Salem,  meaning  "peace",  was  founded  in  1766. 

The  Moravian  church  emphasizes  salvation  through  faith 
in  Jesus  Christ  as  personal  savior.  Believing  in  the  Bible  as 
the  word  of  God  allows  each  member  the  freedom  to  read 
and  interpret  the  scriptures.  Moravians,  from  the  earliest 
days,  have  expressed  their  faith  through  music. 

-B- 


FROM  THE  KITCHEN  OF  ESTHER  WHITE 

Sometime  in  the  late  spring  of  1876,  Mrs.  Esther  White,  a 
Moravian  living  in  East  Salem,  became  concerned  for  her 
step-son  and  his  companions  because  there  was  no 
religious  instruction  within  easy  reach.  So,  on  each  Sunday 
afternoon,  she  gathered  into  her  kitchen  such  as  were  willing 
to  come,  and  began  herself  to  teach  them.  It  must  have 
appealed  to  the  children,  for  more  and  more  joined  the 
group,  and  in  the  course  of  a  few  months,  the  kitchen 
became  overcrowded.  A  seed  had  been  planted!  A  seed 
that  was  as  a  grain  of  mustard  seed,  and  would  grow  and 
grow. 


v3 

8  1543-9 
-2 


-C- 


When  numbers  outgrew  the  limits  of  Mrs.  White's  kitchen, 
Mr.  Augustus  Fogle  lent  them  a  log  house  across  the  road, 
and  into  this,  the  school  moved. 

The  seed  sprouted  and  the  plant  began  to  grow.  Soon,  a 
building  known  as  East  Salem  Chapel  was  erected  up  the 
street.  However,  this  building  soon  became  inadequate,  and 
the  congregation  built  and  moved  into  a  beautiful  new  brick 
church  on  Fourth  and  Claremont  Avenue.  This  was  in  1915. 
The  new  church  was  named  Fries  Memorial  in  honor  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Henry  Fries,  who  had  devoted  so  much  of  their  time 
and  service  to  the  congregation. 

Then,  after  30  years  of  worshipping  at  this  location,  the 
skies  darkened.  The  winds  of  different  opinions  blew  and 
bent  the  branches  of  the  mustard  plant,  but  never  breaking 
them.  Our  country  was  at  war,  and  due  to  circumstances 
beyond  our  control,  we  were  forced  to  close  the  doors  and 
sell.  Although  many  members  left  the  church  at  this  time  and 
went  elsewhere,  the  faithful  few  were  determined  to  stay 
together  for  worship.  After  much  consideration,  property  was 
purchased  on  North  Hawthorne  Road.  Mr.  Fries,  feeble  as 
he  was,  made  a  trip  to  Washington,  D.C.,  to  secure  the  permit 
to  build  a  new  church.  On  April  8,  1946,  the  new  church  held 
its  first  service,  and  in  1948,  the  mortgage  was  burned. 

The  plant  continues  to  grow,  its  branches  ever-bearing. 

From  our  kitchens  come  the  recipes  for  this  book,  but 
from  the  kitchen  of  Esther  White  comes  Fries  Memorial 
Moravian  Church. 


-r> 


THE  MORAVIAN  STAR 

The  Moravian  Star  was  originally  developed  around 
1850  in  Niesky,  East  Germany.  It  began  as  an  exercise  in 
geometry  at  a  boys'  school. 

Peter  Verbeeck  had  attended  this  school,  and  began  to 
make  them  to  sell  in  his  book  store  in  Herrnhut.  Originally, 
the  star  had  a  metal  frame.  Later,  Peter  and  his  son,  Harry, 
learned  to  make  points  which  could  be  fastened  together 
with  paper  fasteners. 

Harry  Verbeeck  founded  the  star  factory  in  Herrnhut, 
and  supplied  Moravians  in  America  with  stars  until  World 
War  I.  After  World  War  II,  the  star  factory  was  taken  over 
and  run  by  the  Communist  Government,  then  returned  to 
the  Moravians  in  1954. 

Today,  local  men  and  women  make  stars  in  various 
sizes,  some  are  made  in  Canada,  and  some  are  still 
obtained  from  Herrnhut. 

The  Moravian  Star  has  a  three-fold  message.  It 
testifies  to  the  greatness  of  the  Creator  who  made  the  stars, 
it  is  a  reminder  of  the  star  that  once  led  the  wise  men  to 
baby  Jesus,  and  it  points  to  the  divine  star,  Jesus  Christ. 

The  star  is  hung  on  the  first  Sunday  in  Advent  and  left 
until  January  6th. 


Helpful  Cooking  Hints 


Frozen  gravies  or  sauces  may  be  a  little 
thicker  after  thawing  than  when  they 
were  freshly  made.  Adding  a  little 
appropriate  liquid  —  milk,  broth, 
bouillon  or  wine  —  will  thin  them  to  the 
desired  consistency. 

For  extra  juicy,  extra  nutritious  ham- 
burgers, add  'A  cup  euaporatedmilk 
per  pound  of  meat  before  shaping. 

To  ripen  green  pears,  just  place  2  or  3 
in  a  brown  bag,  loosely  closed,  and 
store  at  room  temperature  out  of  di- 
rect sunlight. 

In  making  pickles,  use  white  vinegar  to 
make  clear  pickles  and  coarse  salt 
which  comes  in  5  pound  bags.  This  is 
not  rock  salt.  Avoid  using  iodized  salt 
for  pickle  making.  Most  pickles  are 
better  if  allowed  to  stand  six  weeks 
before  using. 

Lemon  gelatine  dissolved  in  2  cups 
of  hot  apricot  nectar  with  1  teaspoon  of 
grated  lemon  added  for  zip  makes  a 
perfect  base  for  jellied  fruit  salad. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  water 
when  cooking  rice,  dried  beans,  maca- 
roni, to  keep  it  from  boiling  over.  Always 
run  cold  water  over  it  when  done  to  get 
the  starch  out.  Reheat  over  hot  water, 
if  necessary. 

A  pair  of  scissors  (not  the  fowl  kind  — 
they  are  heavy  and  awkward  to  handle) 
fine  for  slivering  celery,  onion,  meats, 
and  cheese. 

Never  put  a  cover  on  anything  that  is 
cooked  in  milk  unless  you  want  to  spend 
hours  cleaning  up  the  stove  when  it 
boils  over. 

Anything  that  grows  under  the  ground 
start  off  in  cold  water  —  potatoes,  beets, 
carrots,  etc.  Any  thing  that  grows  above 
ground,  start  off  in  boiling  water  — 
English  peas,  greens,  beans,  etc. 


1543-9 


To  clean  aluminum  pots  when  they  are 
stained  dark,  merely  boil  with  a  little 
cream  of  tartar,  vinegar  or  acid  foods. 

Baking  powder  will  remove  tea  or  coffee 
stains  from  china  pots  or  cups. 

Copyright   ©   1978  Fundcraft  Publishing,  Inc 


Learn  where  your  fuse  box  and  master 
cut-off  switch  is.  If  you  know  where  the 
lever  is  to  pull  you  can  always  cut  the 
current  off  until  a  semice  man  can  come. 

Canned  cream  soups  make  excellent 
sauces  for  vegetables,  fish,  etc.  Celery 
with  lobster,  black  bean  or  onion  with 
cauliflower,  tomato  with  lamb  chops. 

Slip  your  hand  inside  a  waxed  sandwich 
bag  and  you  have  a  perfect  mitt  for 
greasing  your  baking  pans  and  casser- 
ole dishes. 

To  reheat  roast,  wrap  in  aluminum  foil 
and  heat  in  a  slow  oven. 

Hard  boiled  eggs  will  peel  easily  when 
cracked  and  placed  in  cold  water  imme- 
diately after  taking  out  of  the  hot  water. 

You  can  cut  a  meringue  pie  cleanly  by 
coating  both  sides  of  the  knife  lightly 
with  butter. 

When  recipe  calls  for  adding  raw  eggs 
to  hot  mixture,  always  begin  by  adding 
a  small  amount  of  hot  mixture  to  the 
beaten  eggs  slowly  to  avoid  curdling. 

To  remove  fish  odor  from  hands,  uten- 
sils and  dish  cloths,  use  one  teaspoon 
baking  soda  to  quart  of  water. 

To  keep  icings  moist  and  to  prevent 
cracking,  add  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  to 
the  icing. 

If  soup  tastes  very  salty,  a  raw  piece 
of  potato  placed  in  the  pot  will  absorb 
the  salt. 

Pour  water  into  mold  and  then  drain 
before  pouring  in  mixture  to  be  chilled. 
Will  come  out  of  mold  easier. 

When  rolling  cooky  dough,  sprinkle 
board  with  powdered  sugar  instead 
of  flour.  Too  much  flour  makes  the 
dough  heavy.  When  freezing  cookies 
with  a  frosting,  place  them  in  freezer 
unwrapped  for  about  2  hours  —  then 
wrap  without  worrying  about  them 
sticking  together. 


MORAVIAN 


MORAVIAN  LOVEFEAST  BUNS 

1  c.  hot,  dry  mashed  potatoes,  2  pkg.  yeast 

unseasoned  Vi  c.  warm  water 

V2  c.  scalded  milk  2  Tbsp.  orange  rind 

1  c.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  lemon  rind 
V2C.  butter  2  Tbsp.  orange  juice 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
flour  for  soft  dough  (about  1  V2  lb.)  V2  tsp.  mace 
y<atsp.  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  potatoes  and  mix  well.  Add  luke- 
warm milk,  then  eggs;  mix  well.  Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  water  and 
add  to  mixture.  Combine  seasonings  and  rinds;  mix  in.  Add  enough 
flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Knead  on  well  floured  table.  Form  into 
ball,  place  in  greased  bowl.  Cover  with  cloth.  Let  rise  in  warm  place 
until  double  in  size.  Punch  down;  let  rise  again  5  to  10  minutes. 
Flouring  hands  well  (dough  will  be  sticky)  form  into  small  balls 
(about  3  ounces).  Place  on  cookie  sheet.  Slash  tops  with  razor  blade 
(to  release  air).  Cover.  Let  rise  until  double  in  size.  Bake  at  350°  for 
15  to  20  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Makes  about  30  buns. 

MORAVIAN  SLAW 

2  c.  water  2  medium  white  onions,  chopped 

2  c.  white  vinegar  2  green  peppers,  cut  fine 

2  c.  white  sugar  1  Tbsp.  salt 

3  lb.  cabbage,  grated  1  Tbsp.  mustard  seed  (optional) 

Boil  water,  vinegar  and  sugar  together  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  this  dressing  is  cool,  pour  over  other  ingredients;  mix  well  and 
refrigerate  at  least  24  hours  before  serving.  It  is  good  as  long  as  you 
keep  it.  This  serves  8  people. 


MORAVIAN  CHICKEN  PIE 

Pastry: 

2  c.  sifted  all-purpose  flour  %  c.  Crisco 

1  tsp.  salt  6  to  8  Tbsp.  cold  water 


164389 


Filling: 

3  c.  finely  chopped  chicken  1  Va  c.  diluted  chicken  broth 

Vac,  flour  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

For  pastry,  mix  into  soft  dough;  handle  as  little  as  possible.  Roll 
out  half  the  dough  to  fit  a  greased  10-inch  pie  plate.  Place  filling 
ingredients  in  the  shell;  cover  with  top  crust.  Pinch  edges  of  crust 
together  to  seal.  Flute  around  the  edges.  Bake  at  375°  to  400°  for  45 
to  60  minutes. 

MORAVIAN  SUGAR  CAKE 

Vz  c.  warm  water  (110°)  V^  tsp.  salt 

Vz  tsp.  sugar  Vz  c.  melted  and  cooled  butter 

2  pkg.  active  dry  yeast  2  eggs 
%  c.  warm  water  (1 1 0°)  3  c.  flour 

Vz  c.  sugar  1  c.  brown  sugar 

2Tbsp.  dry  milk  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Va  c.  instant  mashed  potatoes  (dry)  Vz  c.  melted  and  cooled  butter 

Add  yeast  to  Vz  cup  warm  water  and  Vz  teaspoon  sugar.  Set  aside 
until  yeast  bubbles.  Add  3A  cup  warm  water,  V2  cup  sugar,  dry  milk, 
mashed  potatoes,  salt,  butter,  eggs  and  1  cup  of  the  flour.  Beat  2  min- 
utes on  medium  speed.  With  wooden  spoon,  add  two  remaining  cups 
of  flour.  Place  in  a  greased  bowl,  turn  once  to  grease  top  of  dough; 
cover  and  let  rise  until  double,  about  one  hour.  Punch  dough  down 
and  put  in  greased  shallow  pan  about  17  x  12  x  1-inch.  Let  rise  30 
minutes.  Spread  evenly  in  pan  and  sprinkle  evenly  with  brown  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Make  shallow  indentations  with  fingers  and  dribble 
with  last  Vz  cup  melted  and  cooled  butter.  Let  rise  30  minutes  and 
bake  until  golden  brown,  12  to  15  minutes,  at  375°. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

3  sticks  butter  or  margarine  Vz  tsp.  baking  soda 

4  Vzc.  granulated  sugar  Vz  tsp.  nutmeg 

5  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
5  c.  flour  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar  Vz  tsp.  almond  extract 

Vz  tsp.  salt 

Combine  flour,  cream  of  tartar,  salt,  soda  and  nutmeg.  Set 
aside.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  in  large  mixing  bowl;  stir  in  eggs,  one 


-2 


MORAVIAN 

at  a  time.  Add  lemon,  vanilla  and  almond  and  beat  well.  Gradually 
add  flour  mixture  and  blend  thoroughly.  Place  in  greased  bowl  and 
chill  overnight.  Roll  out  on  floured  pastry  cloth  and  cut  with  cookie 
cutters.  Place  on  greased  cookie  sheet  and  bake  at  325°  until  golden 
brown,  about  10  to  15  minutes. 


HOT  ROLL  MORAVIAN  SUGAR  CAKE 


1  pkg  Pillsbury  hot  roll  mix 

%  c.  very  warm  water  (1 05°  to  1 1 0°) 

Vb  c.  sugar 

Vb  c.  instant  nonfat  dry  milk 

Topping: 

2h  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 
1  tsp.  cinnamon 


Vb  c.  instant  mashed  potato  flakes 
Vb  c.  margarine  or  butter,  melted 
2  eggs 


Vz  c.  melted  margarine  or  butter 


Grease  13  x  9-inch  pan.  In  large  bowl  dissolve  yeast  from  mix  in 
warm  water.  Stir  in  half  of  flour  from  mix  and  remaining  cake  ingre- 
dients. Beat  two  minutes  at  medium  speed.  Stir  in  remaining  flour. 
Beat  well.  Cover.  Let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double  in  size,  about 
45  minutes.  Stir  down;  spread  in  prepared  pan.  Cover  and  let  rise 
until  double  in  size,  about  45  minutes.  Heat  oven  to  375°.  Make 
small  pockets  in  dough  by  pressing  lightly  with  floured  fingertip. 
Sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixture.  Drizzle  melted 
margarine  over  top.  Bake  for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until  golden  brown. 

Evelyn  Reed 


MORAVIAN   LOVEFEAST  COFFEE 

(100  Mugs) 


13  lb.  regular  grind  coffee 

13  lb.  sugar 

2qt.  homogenized  milk 


1  qt.  half  and  half  milk 
7  gal.  water 


Fill  water  jacket  to  proper  gauge.  Fill  urn  with  7  gallons  water 
and  let  heat  to  boiling  point.  Put  sugar  into  large  container  and  dis- 
solve with  1  Vz  gallons  of  hot  water,  drawn  from  the  urn.  Put  coffee 
into  a  canvas  bag  (presoaked  in  cold  water  about  2  hours)  and  place 
into  the  urn.  Draw  water  from  urn  and  pour  over  coffee  grounds.  Re- 
move coffee  bag;  add  dissolved  sugar  to  coffee.  StirwTell.  Cut  off  heat 


164389 


3- 


MORAVIAN 

about  2  minutes  before  adding  milk.   Be  sure  to  stir  constantly  as 
milk  is  added  to  coffee. 

MORAVIAN  COOKIES 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar  Vz  c.  boiling  water 

6  oz.  margarine  4  lb.  flour  (approximately) 

6  oz.  shortening  2  Tbsp.  cloves 

1  qt.  molasses  2  Tbsp.  cinnamon 

2  rounded  Tbsp.  soda  2  Tbsp.  ginger 

Melt  shortening  and  margarine  and  add  to  sugar.  Stir  in  the 
molasses  (Puerto  Rican  molasses  which  are  very  dark)  and  the  soda 
dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Sift  in  about  4  pounds  flour.  Add  along 
with  the  spices.  The  dough  should  be  almost  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Let 
it  sit  out  overnight  to  blend  flavors.  Roll  on  cloth  covered  board  as 
thin  as  possible;  cut  with  cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  a  275°  oven  for 
exactly  10  minutes.  This  recipe  makes  7  or  8  pounds  of  cookies. 

HOME  MORAVIAN  COUNTRY  STYLE  STEAK 

Use  any  amount  of  tenderized  steak  desired.  The  amount  of 
meat  used  will  determine  the  size  pan  used  for  cooking,  because  it  is 
best  not  to  layer  the  steak  too  much.  Season  pieces  of  steak  as  desired 
and  lightly  coat  with  flour.  Brown  in  a  heavy  skillet,  using  just  a  little 
vegetable  oil,  until  steak  is  partially  done  (just  to  the  point  where  no 
blood  seeps  out).  Transfer  to  baking  pan.  Make  a  thin  gravy  in  skil- 
let using  water  and  Kitchen  Bouquet  (just  enough  to  color  the  gravy) 
and  a  little  flour,  about  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  each  tablespoon  of 
grease.  Add  gravy  to  meat  in  baking  pan  (gravy  should  cover  meat; 
a  little  water  added  will  do  the  trick).  Cook  in  350°  oven  for  about  2 
hours.  Turn  meat  halfway  through  cooking  time. 

Mrs.  Zelphia  Crim 

MORAVIAN  CINNAMON   BUNS 

(Kernersville  Moravian) 

1  c.  boiling  water  1  stick  butter 

%  c.  shortening  2  c.  brown  sugar 

Vfe  c.  sugar  cinnamon 

2  pkg.  yeast  and  Vz  c.  lukewarm  1  c.  powdered  sugar 
water  Vz  stick  butter,  melted 

1  c.  self-rising  flour  milk 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  egg,  beaten 


-4 


MORAVIAN 


Combine  boiling  water  and  shortening;  cool.  Dissolve  yeast 
in  V2  cup  water.  Add  flour,  egg  and  potatoes  to  ingredients.  Work 
approximately  5  cups  more  flour  into  other  ingredients.  Let  rise  in  2 
greased  bowls  in  250°  (turned  off)  oven  for  10  minutes.  Finish  rising 
(20  minutes)  on  counter,  until  double.  Roll  out  V\  of  dough  into  rec- 
tangle. Top  with  Vi  each  (1  ingredient  at  a  time)  butter,  brown  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Roll  up  lengthwise  as  for  jelly  roll  and  slice  in 
1  V2-inch  pieces.  Place  in  greased  pans.  Let  rise  as  before.  Bake  at 
375°  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Cool.  Make  icing  with  powdered  sugar,  V2 
stick  butter,  milk  and  vanilla.  Spread. 

Pam  Southerland 


MORAVIAN  ORANGE  CAKE 


5  to  6  c.  all-purpose  flour 
%  c.  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  pkg.  active  dry  yeast 

V3  c.  margarine,  softened 

1  c.  very  warm  tap  water  (1 20°  to 
130°) 

2  eggs  (at  room  temperature) 


1  c.  mashed  potatoes  (at  room 
temperature) 

Vi  c.  (1  stick)  margarine 

2  c.  firmly  packed  light  brown  sugar 
2Tbsp.  orange  juice 

1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 
1  tsp.  grated  orange  peel 


In  a  large  bowl,  thoroughly  mix  1  V2  cups  flour,  sugar,  salt  and 
undissolved  yeast.  Add  softened  margarine.  Gradually  add  tap  water 
to  dry  ingredients  and  beat  2  minutes  at  medium  speed  of  electric 
mixer,  scraping  bowl  occasionally.  Add  potatoes,  eggs  and  V2  cup 
flour.  Beat  at  high  speed  2  minutes,  scraping  bowl  occasionally.  Stir 
in  enough  additional  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  out  onto  light- 
ly floured  board;  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic,  about  8  to  10  min- 
utes. Place  in  greased  bowl,  turning  to  grease  top.  Cover;  let  rise  in 
warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  doubled  in  bulk,  about  1  hour. 

Meanwhile,  cream  V-z  cup  margarine  with  brown  sugar.  Blend  in 
•orange  juice,  cinnamon  and  orange  peel.  Punch  dough  down,  turn 
out  onto  lightly  floured  board  and  divide  in  half.  Roll  Vz  dough  to  a  12 
x  8-inch  rectangle.  Spread  with  half  the  sugar  mixture.  Roll  up  from 
long  side  as  for  a  jelly  roll.  Seal  edges  firmly.  Slice  into  18  equal 
pieces.  Arrange  pieces  on  edge  in  4  staggered  rows  in  greased  9-inch 
square  pan.  Repeat  with  remaining  dough.  Cover;  let  rise  in  warm 
place,  free  from  draft,  until  double  in  bulk,  about  1  hour.  Bake  at 
350°  for  about  30  minutes  or  until  done.  Remove  from  baking  pans 
and  cool  on  wire  racks. 


154369 


-5 


MORAVIAN 

-•  YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES  •  - 
Recipe 


-6- 


Page  Number 


LOVEFEAST 

To  signify  their  union  and  equality,  early  believers  met 
and  broke  bread  together.  After  a  moving  celebration  of 
Holy  Communion  on  August  13,  1727,  they  lingered  at  the 
church  talking  about  the  experience.  Count  Zinzendorf 
sent  to  the  manor  house  for  food.  The  people  continued  in 
prayer  and  singing  while  they  partook  of  the  food. 

Today,  the  traditional  food  in  American  Moravian 
churches  is  coffee  with  sugar  and  cream,  served  with  a 
sweetened  bun. 

During  the  Lovefeast,  hymns  are  sung  based  on  the 
subject  of  the  day.  At  this  time,  the  minister  speaks  briefly 
and  the  coffee  and  buns  are  served  to  the  congregation. 

Lovefeasts  are  held  today  in  Moravian  churches 
throughout  the  year  on  special  occasions. 


Appetizers 


Appetizers  are  those  treats  that  can  be  served  either  at  the  start  of  a  meal  or 
at  a  reception  or  open  house.  Listed  belotu  are  quick  appetizers  that  can  be 
served  anytime  with  crackers,  thin  sliced  toasted  bread  or  potato  chips: 

1 .  Caviar  flavored  with  onion  juice. 

2.  Cream  cheese  with  chopped  chutney  and  dash  of  curry  powder. 

3.  Lobster  tail  moistened  with  lemon  juice. 

4.  Almonds  or  pecans  roasted  and  chopped,  then  mixed  with 
anchovy  paste. 

5.  Cream  cheese  with  chopped  pickle. 

6.  Chicken  livers  minced  and  moistened  with  mayonnaise. 

7.  Cheese  squares  with  olive  attached  by  toothpick. 

8.  Liverwurst  with  pistachio  nuts. 

9.  Sardines  with  caviar  paste. 

1 0.  Minced  eggs  with  anchovies. 

1 1 .  Cream  cheese  and  horseradish. 

1 2.  Cream  cheese  and  anchovy  paste  with  grated  onion. 

1 3.  Herring  squares  mashed  in  its  own  juice  with  dash  of  vinegar  and 
Tabasco  sauce. 

1 4.  Peanut  butter  and  bacon  toasted  on  dark  bread. 

]  5.  Deviled  ham  with  chopped  onions  and  Spanish  olives. 

1 6.  Stilton  cheese  moistened  with  Port  wine. 

1  7.  Shrimp  flavored  with  French  dressing. 

1 8.  Caviar  mixed  with  cream  cheese  with  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce. 

1 9.  Peanuts  roasted,  crushed  and  mixed  with  anchovy  paste. 

20.  Sardine  slices  topped  with  chopped  olives. 

2 1 .  Pimento  cheese  mixed  with  a  dash  of  horseradish. 

22.  Minced  shrimp  with  onion  juice. 

23.  Cream  cheese  with  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  chives. 


1543-9  Copyright  &  1978  Fundcraft  Publishing,  Inc 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAG ES,  SOUPS  & 
SANDWICHES 


HOT  SPINACH  BALLS 

1  box  frozen  chopped  spinach,  3  eggs,  beaten 

cooked  Vz  c.  margarine,  melted 

1  c.  herb-seasoned  dressing  mix  Vic.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  small  onion,  grated  1  tsp.  black  pepper 

Cook  and  drain  spinach.  Add  all  other  ingredients;  refrigerate 
for  2  hours.  Shape  into  balls.  Bake  20  minutes  at  350°. 

Pat  Whitt 


CHEESE  BLINTZES 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  e.  sugar  1  egg  yolk 

1/4  lb.  melted  butter  20  slices  bread 

Cinnamon  Sugar: 

1  c.  sugar  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

Mix  cream  cheese,  sugar,  egg  yolk  and  vanilla  until  creamy. 
Roll  bread  with  rolling  pin  to  flatten  out.  Spread  with  filling.  Fold 
into  crescent  shape.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  mix- 
ture of  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  at  350°  for  15  minutes.  Cut  in  half 
after  baking.  Makes  40. 

Lynn  Collins 

HUGH'S  CHEESE  BALL 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  2  tsp.  seasoning  salt 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  green  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple,  well 

pepper  drained 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  onion  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Warm  cream  cheese  to  room  temperature.  Mix  all  ingredients 
except  V2  cup  pecans.  Chill  well  (overnight).  Roll  cheese  ball  in 
remaining  pecans. 

Bonny  McNally 

154389  -  7  - 


APFETSZERS,  BEVERAGES.  SOUPS   &  SANDWiCHES 

MINI  PIZZAS 


1  lb,  mild  sausage 
1  lb.  hamburger 
1  small  Velveeta  cheese 
1  isp.  basil 


1  tsp.  oregano 
1  tsp.  garlic  sal! 

1  Tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

2  loaves  party  rye  bread 


Brown  together  sausage  and  hamburger;  drain  this.  Add 
cheese  and  spices.  Mix  until  cheese  is  melted  and  well  mixed.  Spread 
on  bread  slices.  Toast  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Great  as  a  party 
food  or  entree. 

Kay  Miller 


THAT  CRAB  DISH 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 

softened 
6  green  onions,  chopped 
1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  3auce 
1  c.  ketchup 
1  Tbsp.  prepared  horseradish 


hot  pepper  sauce  to  taste 
1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  crabmeat, 
thawed  or  equivalent  of  fresh 

crabmeat 
1  c.  minced  parsley 
lemon  juice 


Spread  softened  cream  cheese  to  make  a  layer  on  bottom  of  flat 
pan  or  dish;  cover  with  chopped  green  onions.  Sprinkle  with  Worces- 
tershire sauce.  Blend  together  ketchup,  horseradish  and  hot  pepper 
sauce;  spread  on  top  of  green  onions.  Cover  with  crabmeat.  Sprinkle 
with  lemon  juice  and  parsley.  Chill.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Ruby  Petree 


PINEAPPLE  CHEESE  BALL 


2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple, 
drained 

2  c.  chopped  pecans 


V4C.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  sesame  seed 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  onions 


Soften  cream  cheese;  beat  with  mixer.  Add  other  ingredients. 
Put  mixture  in  refrigerator  until  cheese  becomes  firm,  then  roll  in 
pecans.  This  can  be  divided  into  two  cheese  balls. 

Kelly  Joyce 


-8 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS  &  SANDWICHES 

HEN-HOUSE  HOMARDS 

1  lb.  cooked  lobster  meat  (can  use  1  tsp.  chopped  green  pepper 

imitation)  1  tsp.  grated  onion 

%  c.  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing  1  tsp.  chopped  pimento 

1  Tbsp.  chili  sauce  16  hard-boiled  eggs 

Coarsely  chop  lobster  meat.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  except 
eggs.  Cut  boiled  eggs  in  half  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks.  Fill  each  egg 
white  with  lobster  mixture,  about  1  tablespoon.  Chill. 

Bonny  McNally 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS 

8  oz.  cooked  crabmeat,  minced  (can  1  tsp.  sugar 

use  Sea  Stix)  1  tsp.  cornstarch 

4  water  chestnuts,  minced  1  egg 

1  scallion,  minced  12  mushroom  stems,  minced  and 

2  tsp.  soy  sauce  browned  in  a  little  oil 
1  tsp.  dry  sherry  12  mushroom  caps 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  mushroom  caps.  Fill  caps  with 
mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Bonny  McNally 

BACON  TOTS 

1  bag  frozen  Tater  Tots  2  lb.  bacon 

Cut  bacon  in  half;  wrap  V2  piece  of  bacon  around  Tater  Tot.  Se- 
cure with  wooden  toothpick  through  bacon.  Bake  on  broiler  pan 
according  to  Tater  Tot  directions  until  bacon  is  done.  Be  sure  not  to 
let  bacon  get  too  hard. 

Helen  Steelman 

COCKTAIL  KIELBASA 

1  (2  lb.)  pkg.  kielbasa  sausage  12  oz.  jar  Heinz  chili  sauce 

20  oz.  Welch's  grape  jelly 

Simmer  kielbasa  about  20  minutes.  (Do  not  pierce.)  Drain  and 
slice  into  Winch  pieces.  Blend  jelly  and  chili  sauce.  Add  sliced 
kielbasa.  Heat  through,  about  15  to  20  minutes.  Serve  warm. 

Betty  Ash  by 

154389  -  9  - 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

APPETIZER 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  tsp.  oregano 

1  lb.  hot  sausage  1  tsp.  garlic  salt 

1  lb.  Velveeta  cheese  1  loaf  party  bread 

Brown  and  drain  ground  beef  and  sausage.  Set  aside.  Heat 
cheese  slowly  until  melted  and  add  other  ingredients.  Place  1  table- 
spoon of  this  mixture  on  party  bread.  Broil  for  2  minutes  on  cookie 
sheet.  Makes  40  to  45.  Will  freeze  well  after  being  broiled.  Place  in 
airtight  container.  Reheat  at  350°  for  15  minutes. 

Karin  Binkley 


HAM  ROLL-UPS 

1  jar  Claussen  pickles  (pat  dry)  sliced  ham  (one  slice  per  pickle), 

1  container  whipped  cream  cheese  pat  dry 

Spread  cream  cheese  on  ham  slice.  Place  pickle  on  ham  slice 
and  roll.  Chill  ham  rolls  and  then  slice  into  bite-sized  portions. 

Karin  Binkley 

MUSHROOM  APPETIZERS 

1  pkg.  Pillsbury  crescent  rolls  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  small  jar  mushroom  pieces  Vz  tsp.  garlic  salt 

8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

Flatten  out  crescent  triangles  and  cut  in  half  from  point  to  the 
short  side.  Mix  softened  cream  cheese  with  other  ingredients  and 
spread  on  dough.  Roll  dough  jelly  roll  fashion  and  slice  into  smaller 
pieces  about  1-inch  wide.  Bake  at  350°  for  12  minutes. 

Kathy  Horton 

SAUSAGE  BALLS 

1  lb.  hot  sausage  1  small  box  Bisquick 

1  lb.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  roll  into  balls.  Bake  at  350° 
until  done,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Ann  Petree 


-10 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

BEEF  CHEESE   BALL 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  2  oz.  pkg.  dried  beef,  chopped 

Va  c.  sour  cream  1  Tbsp.  horseradish 

Vac.  Parmesan  cheese 

Mix  cheeses,  sour  cream,  horseradish  and  V\  cup  dried  beef.  Re- 
frigerate 15  minutes.  Form  into  a  ball  and  roll  in  remaining  beef. 

Bonny  McNally 

l 

,  CHEESE  OLIVES 

Vfe  c.  flour  3  Tbsp.  margarine,  melted  and 

Vi  tsp.  salt  cooled 

V-jtsp.  dry  mustard  1  Tbsp.  milk 

4  oz.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  grated  2  or  more  drops  Tabasco  sauce 

30  to  40  olives 

Blend  flour,  salt,  mustard  and  cheese.  Stir  in  margarine,  milk 
and  Tabasco.  Form  approximately  1  teaspoon  dough  around  each 
olive,  sealing  all  edges.  Bake  on  lightly  greased  cookie  sheet  at  400° 
for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Bonny  McNally 


ARTICHOKE  SPREAD 

1  (14  oz.)  can  artichoke  hearts,  1  c.  Parmesan  cheese  or  to  taste 

drained  Vitsp.  garlic  powder 

1  c.  mayonnaise  (Heilmann's  is  dash  of  lemon  juice 
best) 

Bake  uncovered  at  350°  for  20  minutes  or  until  slightly  brown 
}n  top. 

Kelly  Joyce 


HOT  PECAN  SPREAD 

}  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  Va  tsp.  black  pepper 

I  Tbsp.  milk  Vz  c.  sour  cream 

I  jar  chipped  beef,  chopped  V2  c.  chopped  pecans 

!  Tbsp.  dehydrated  onion  2  Tbsp.  margarine 

*2  tsp.  garlic  V2  tsp.  salt 
'4C.  chopped  green  pepper 


54389  -  1 1  - 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Mix  cream  cheese  and  milk;  stir  in  beef,  pepper,  onion  and  sea- 
soning mix.  Fold  in  sour  cream.  Put  in  8-inch  pie  plate.  Heat  crisp 
pecans  in  butter  and  salt.  Sprinkle  over  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  20 
minutes.  Serve  with  unsalted  crackers. 

Penny  Goods 


CRAB  PATE 


1  can  mushroom  soup 
1  pkg.  unfavored  gelatin 
3  Tbsp.  cold  wafer 
8  Vz  oz.  can  crabmeat  or  fresh 


8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened 
%c.  mayonnaise 
1  c.  finely  chopped  celery 
1  small  onion,  grated 


Heat  soup  over  low  heat  and  remove  from  heat.  Combine  gela- 
tin with  water.  Add  gelatin  to  soup  and  stir  well.  Add  crabmeat, 
cream  cheese,  mayonnaise,  celery  and  onion  to  soup  and  gelatin;  stir 
well.  Spoon  into  oiled  mold  and  chill.  This  will  feed  a  small  army. 
Serve  with  lots  of  good  crackers. 

Julia  A.  Spainhour 
SUNSET  SHRIMP-CRAB  DIP 


1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  tsp.  instant  minced  onion 
Vitsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  green 
pepper 


V4C.  California  sherry 
1  (6  Vz  oz.)  can  crabmeat 
1  (4  Vz  oz.)  can  shrimp 


Combine  all  ingredients,  stirring  lightly.    Serve  chilled  with 
crisp  crackers. 

Faye  Preston 


1  pkg.  taco  seasoning 
1  lb.  ground  meat 


NACHO  DIP 


1  can  spicy  V-8  juice  (small) 
1  can  cheese  soup 


Brown  ground  meat  and  drain  thoroughly.  Add  taco  seasoning 
and  V-8  juice.  Let  simmer  until  meat  is  done.  Add  soup  and  heat. 
Serve  with  nachos.  Dip  is  best  if  kept  warm. 

Pat  Whitt 


12- 


i 


1  jar  marsh  ma  I  low  cream 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

FRUIT  DIP 

1  Vz  containers  soft  cream  cheese 


Mix  thoroughly.  Serve  with  fruit  bowl. 


Pat  Whitt 


CHEESE-BEAN  DIP 


1  can  retried  beans 
1  large  pkg.  cream  cheese 
8  oz.  carton  sour  cream 
1  small  bunch  chopped  green 
onions 


Vz  pkg.  taco  seasoning  mix 
10  or  more  drops  Tabasco 
%c.  each  Monterey  Jack  and 
Cheddar  cheese,  shredded 


Allow  cream  cheese  to  soften,  then  add  beans,  sour  cream, 
onions,  taco  seasoning  and  Tabasco.  Mix  well.  Put  into  a  casserole 
dish  and  top  with  other  cheeses.  Bake  until  hot.  Serve  with  corn 
chips. 

Patti  Petree 


SPICY  BEEF  DIP 


1  lb.  ground  beef 

1  lb.  sausage  (hot) 

2  lb.  Velveeta  cheese 


1  jar  taco  sauce  (hot) 

1  can  green  chilies,  chopped 


Brown  beef  and  sausage.   Drain  well.  Add  cheese,  taco  sauce 
and  chilies.  Mix  well  and  serve  with  tortilla  chips.  Can  be  frozen. 

Barbara  WUkerson 


HOT  CHEESE  DIP 


1  Vi  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese  (6  oz. 

medium) 
tec.  chopped  onion 


%c.  mayonnaise 
dash  of  red  pepper 


Mix  all  together  and  bake  at  350°  until  bubbly.  Sprinkle  with 
paprika. 

Ruby  Petree 


154389 


13 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

VEGETABLE  DSP 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  small  onion,  chopped,  or  1  bunch 

8  oz.  sour  cream  spring  onions 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1  small  jar  dried  beef,  cut  into  small 

pieces 

Mix  all  ingredients.   Better  if  mixed  and  kept  in  refrigerator  | 
overnight. 

PatWhitt 


CUCUMBER  DIP 

1  c.  sour  cream  Vfe  c.  minced  onion 

Vz  c.  mayonnaise  1  clove  garlic,  crushed 

1  tsp.  salt  Vfe  c.  minced  cucumber,  drained 

dash  of  pepper  sauce  1  tsp.  sugar 

V4  c.  green  pepper,  minced 

Blend  ingredients  and  chill.  Serve  with  raw  vegetables  or  chips. 

Mavareen  Foil 


HOT  ARTICHOKE  DIP 

1  c.  mayonnaise  1  can  artichoke  hearts,  chunked 

Vz  c.  Parmesan  cheese  3  jalapeno  peppers,  chopped 

Vz  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Turn  into  a  small  greased  casse- 
role dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  with  crackers  or 
Melba  toast. 

Patti  Petree 


AVOCADO  DIP 

2  large  ripe  avocados  V2  tsp.  salt 

3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  Tbsp.  minced  onion 

1  can  chili  pepper  dash  of  Tabasco  sauce 

Mash  peeled  avocados  well  or  use  blender.    Add  remaining 
ingredients  and  blend  well.  Refrigerate  1  hour  before  serving. 

Becky  Dawson 


14 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

COCONUT-HONEY  FRUIT  DIP 


116  oz.  cottage  cheese 

rac.  plain  yogurt 
14  c.  honey 


1/4C.  shredded  coconut 
1  tsp.  grated  orange  rind 


Place  cottage  cheese  in  a  blender.  Mix  at  low  speed  until 
smooth.  Transfer  to  a  small  bowl.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Chill 
L  hour.  (Can  be  served  in  hollowed-out  cantaloupe  half.)  Makes 
approximately  2  cups.  Great  dip  for  bananas,  grapes,  strawberries, 
nelon,  etc. 

Bonny  McNally 
SPECIAL  DIP 


pkg.  Knorr  vegetable  soup  mix 
I  c.  sour  cream 

c.  mayonnaise 
>  spring  onions  (chop  both  ends) 


1  pkg.  spinach,  frozen  and  chopped 

2  loaves  Hawaiian  bread  or  a  round 
loaf 

2  cans  sliced  water  chestnuts 


Cook  frozen  spinach  according  to  package  directions  and  drain. 
Jombine  soup  mix,  sour  cream,  mayonnaise,  onions,  spinach  and 
vater  chestnuts.  Slice  top  off  loaf  of  bread,  about  1  inch.  Scoop  out 
nside  of  loaf,  tear  these  into  bite  size  pieces  of  bread  and  retain.  Put 
lip  mixture  inside  of  loaf,  place  the  loaf  on  a  platter  and  surround 
vith  pieces  of  bread  or  raw  vegetables. 

Janice  Sykes 
FRESH  VEGETABLE  DIP 


c.  mayonnaise 
tec.  sour  cream 
:  Tbsp.  minced  green  onion 


2  Tbsp.  parsley 
2  tsp.  dill  weed 
2  tsp.  Beau  Monde  seasoning 


Blend  well  and  chill  for  2  to  3  hours. 


Janice  Sykes 


DILL  DIP 


c.  sour  cream 
c.  mayonnaise 
2  tsp.  dried  parsley 


1  V2  tsp.  onion 
1  Vz  tsp.  dill  weed 
%  tsp.  seasoning  salt 


54389 


15- 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  chill,  preferably  overnight. 

Bonny  McNally 


MUSTARD 

3Tbsp.  dry  mustard  Vzc.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  flour  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  egg  yolks  Va  c.  vinegar 
1  c.  half  and  half 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  egg  yolks  and  half  and  half.  Cook,  stir- 
ring until  thick.  Use  whisk.  Stir  in  vinegar.  Makes  1  V2  cups. 

Patti  Petree 


CHOLESTEROL-FREE  MAYONNAISE 

Va  c.  liquid  egg  substitute  (at  room  1  c.  corn  oil,  divided 

temperature)  3  Tbsp.  fresh  lemon  juice 

1  tsp.  dry  mustard  Vz  tsp.  white  vinegar 

Vz  tsp.  salt  Vz  tsp.  fructose  (optional) 
dash  of  cayenne 

Combine  liquid  egg  substitute,  dry  mustard,  salt,  cayenne,  fruc- 
tose and  V4  cup  corn  oil  in  blender.  Cover  and  blend  on  high  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  With  blender  still  running,  remove  cover  and 
very  slowly  add  Vz  cup  corn  oil,  then  lemon  juice  and  vinegar  and,  at 
the  last,  add  Vi  cup  corn  oil.  Stop  blender  and  scrape  the  sides  of  the 
container.  Continue  mixing  until  thoroughly  blended.  Makes 
1  Va  cups. 

Evelyn  Reed 


HOT  APPLE  CIDER 

1  gal.  apple  cider  5  cinnamon  sticks 

Va  c.  brown  sugar  10  whole  cloves 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  then 
simmer  for  1  hour. 

Nancy  Rutledge 

-16- 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

SPICED  APPLE  JUICE 


1  jar  apple  juice  (42  to  46  oz.) 

46  oz.) 

Vz  c.  packed  brown  sugar 


6  whole  cloves 

2  pieces  stick  cinnamon 

Vac.  lemon  juice 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  heavy  vessel.  Heat  over  medium  heat  to 
simmer.  Brew  slowly  2  hours.  Remove  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Keeps 
in  refrigerator. 

Ruth  Wyatt 

FRUIT  TEA 

(Spiced) 


8  c.  water 

2  c.  sugar 

1  cinnamon  stick 

1  Tbsp.  whole  cloves 


5  tea  bags 
1  pt.  orange  juice 
1  pt.  pineapple  juice 
juice  of  4  lemons 


Boil  3  to  5  minutes;  remove  spices.   Bring  water  to  a  boil  in 
another  pot.  Add  tea  bags  and  steep  3  to  5  minutes.  Add  to  other 
i  ingredients.    Add  orange  juice,  pineapple  juice  and  lemon  juice. 
Bring  to  a  boiling  point.  Keeps  in  refrigerator  for  several  weeks. 

Doris  Ward 


MY  FAVORITE  SUMMER  SIPPER 


I  c.  sugar 
H  c.  water 

II  tec,  grapefruit  juice 


1  c.  orange  juice 
4  c.  ginger  ale 
fresh  mint  (optional) 


Combine  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  slow  boil, 
stirring  with  whisk  to  dissolve  sugar.  Boil  gently,  without  stirring, 
for  7  minutes.  Cool;  can  be  covered  and  chilled  until  needed  at  this 
point.  Combine  grapefruit  juice  and  orange  juice  with  syrup. 
Pour  V2  cup  over  ice  in  a  tall  glass.  Fill  glass  with  ginger  ale.  Garnish 
with  mint,  if  desired.  Serves  8.  Can  be  doubled. 

Evelyn  M.  Sellers 


PARTY  PUNCH 


2  Vz  c.  sugar 

4  qt.  water 

1  qt.  apple  juice 


2  qt.  cranberry  juice 
1  Vac.  lemon  juice 
1  pt.  orange  juice 


154389 


17- 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Add  juices.  Chill  before  serving.  Serves  40. 

Margaret  Bowles 

HOT  MULLED  CIDER 

2  qt.  apple  cider  1  c.  light  corn  syrup 

2  sticks  cinnamon  Vz  c.  lemon  juice 

1  (12  oz.)  can  pineapple  juice  Vz  tsp.  nutmeg 

Combine  cider  and  cinnamon  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil  over 
high  heat.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Add  pineapple  juice, 
corn  syrup,  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.  Simmer  until  mixture  is  hot. 
Remove  cinnamon  sticks.  Serve  hot.  (Crock-pot  works  nicely  for 
serving.) 

Patti  Petree 


RED  HOTS  CRANBERRY  TEA 

1  qt.  cranberry  juice  1  c.  water 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  orange  juice  (diluted) 

Vz  c.  cinnamon  red  hots  1  c.  lemonade  (diluted) 

Heat  cranberry  juice,  sugar,  red  hots  and  water  on  low  until 
sugar  dissolves.  Do  not  let  candies  stick.  Turn  off  heat  and  add  lem- 
onade and  orange  juice.  Makes  about  1  gallon  of  concentrated  tea. 
Refrigerate.  Dilute  Vz  tea  to  V2  water  and  heat  when  ready  to  serve. 

Kathy  Horton 


CRANBERRY  TEA 

4  c.  water  1  small  orange,  sliced 

4  cinnamon  sticks  1 1  Vz  oz.  can  Welch's  frozen,  no 

several  cloves  (if  desired)  sugar  added  cranberry  juice 

4  orange  herbal  tea  bags  cocktail  concentrate,  thawed 

Bring  water,  cinnamon  sticks  and  cloves  to  a  boil.  Remove  from 
heat.  Add  tea  bags  and  steep  for  10  minutes.  Remove  tea  bags  and 
add  orange  slices  and  concentrate.  Stir  and  serve  hot  or  chilled. 
Serves  6. 

Alternates: 

-18- 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Welch's  no  sugar  added  grape  juice  cocktail,  lemon  herbal  tea 
and  lemon  slices. 

Welch's  no  sugar  added  apple-white  grape  juice  cocktail,  spiced 
herbal  tea  and  lime  slices. 

Bonny  McNally 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

8  c.  water  8  c.  strong  tea 

2V2C.  sugar  1  c.  orange  juice 

1  Tbsp.  allspice  1  can  pineapple  juice  (18  oz.) 

1  Tbsp.  cloves  1  lemon  (juice) 

1  Tbsp.  cinnamon 

Tie  the  spices  in  a  thin  cloth  (small  bag).  Boil  in  water  and  sug- 
ar for  10  minutes.  Take  bag  of  spices  out.  Add  8  cups  of  strong  tea, 

1  cup  of  orange  juice,  pineapple  juice  and  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice. 

Pryce  Foxworth 

INSTANT  RUSSIAN  TEA 

2  c.  Tang  1  tsp.  ground  lemon 

1  V3  c.  sugar  V2  tsp.  cloves  or  allspice 

V2  c.  instant  tea  1  smail  pkg.  lemonade  twist  mix 

Y2  c.  lemon  tea  1  tsp.  lemon  peel 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  store  in  a  container  with  lid. 
To  make  one  cup  of  Russian  Tea,  put  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  mix 
to  1  cup  of  hot  water. 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 

I 

FIRESIDE  COFFEE 

2  c.  Coffee-mate  2  c.  sugar 

2  c.  Nestle  Quik  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1 1  c.  instant  coffee  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  store  in  large  container.  For 
serving,  mix  1  to  2  teaspoons  in  one  cup  of  hot  water.  Delicious  to 
snuggle  up  with  a  cup  on  a  cold  winter  night  in  front  of  the  fireplace. 
You'll  love  it. 

Olive  Ring-Klapp 

154389  -  19  - 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

PUNCH 

2  qt  lime  sherbet  2  qt.  cold  ginger  ale 

Blend  together  until  well  mixed.  Serves  approximately  25. 

If  you  want  gold  punch,  use  1  quart  orange  juice  and  1  quart  gin 
ger  ale.  Substitute  2  quarts  orange  sherbet  for  the  lime  sherbet 
Blend  well.  Serves  approximately  25. 

Kathleen  Robbing 

PFAFFTOWN  PUNCH 

1  small  jar  maraschino  cherries,  1  small  can  frozen  orange  juice 

including  juice  Vz  bottle  Wink 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Blend  all  ingredients  in  blender.  Add  handful  of  ice  and  blend 
again  as  needed  to  serve. 

Valia  Kane 

LEMON-LIME  PUNCH 

1  pkg.  lemon-iime  powdered  drink  1  bottle  ginger  ale 
mix                                                        sugar  to  taste 

2  qt.  water  1  large  can  pineapple  juice 

Dissolve  drink  mix  and  sugar  in  water.  Add  pineapple  juice; 
chill.  Just  before  serving,  add  ginger  ale.  Yields  15  to  20  servings. 

May  are  en  Foil 

CRANBERRY  PUNCH 

46  oz.  pineapple  juice  1  c.  lemon  juice 

1  pi.  cranberry  juice  1  c.  sugar 

2  qt.  ginger  ale 

Mix  juices  with  sugar.  Chill  and  add  cold  ginger  ale  at  serving 
time.  Makes  32  servings. 

Mavareen  Foil 

FRUIT  PUNCH  FOR  25 

1  pt.  grapefruit  juice  1  c.  lemon  juice 

1  pt.  orange  juice  1  Vz  c.  sugar  syrup 

1  pt.  grape  juice  2  qt.  ginger  ale 

1  (No.  2)  can  pineapple  juice  ice  cubes 


-20 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Chill  all  fruit  juices.  Combine  with  sugar  syrup  and  turn  into 
punch  bowl  over  ice  cubes.  Add  ginger  ale  at  the  moment  of  serving. 

Mavareen  Foil 


SUGAR  SYRUP  FOR  SWEETENING  FRUIT  DRINKS 

Boil  together  for  5  minutes,  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  water. 
1  Store  closely  covered  in  the  refrigerator.  One  and  one  quarter  table- 
spoons of  this  syrup  equals  1  tablespoon  sugar  in  sweetening  powder. 

Mavareen  Foil 


ZUCCHINI  SOUP 

Vi  to  1  lb.  bacon,  cut  in  Vz-'mch  strips  3  c.  zucchini,  cut  into  1-inch  pieces 

1  green  pepper,  cut  in  large  pieces  2  Yz  c.  water 

I  medium  onion,  cut  into  large  Vz  tsp.  salt 
pieces  ft  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

3  c.  celery,  cut  into  large  pieces  V^tsp.  pepper 

Yz  lb.  mushrooms,  sliced  1  Yz  tsp.  sweet  basil 

24  oz.  can  tomatoes,  including  juice  1  tsp.  sugar 

II  small  can  tomato  sauce  Parmesan  cheese 

In  kettle,  fry  bacon.  When  almost  browned,  add  green  pepper, 
onion  and  celery.  Stir  well.  Add  tomatoes,  tomato  sauce,  water  and 
seasonings.  Simmer  30  minutes.  Add  mushrooms  and  zucchini. 
Cook  until  zucchini  is  tender,  about  40  minutes.  This  freezes  very 
well.  Top  with  Parmesan  cheese. 

Mary  Whitt 


THURMAN  MOSER'S  CHICKEN  STEW 

j 

1  (3  lb.)  chicken,  cut  up  1  Tbsp.  salt  or  to  taste 

2  qt.  water  Yz  tsp.  black  pepper 
H  qt.  milk                                                     Yzc.  flour 

1 1  large  green  pepper,  shredded  Yz  c.  chicken  broth 

2  tsp.  hickory  smoked  salt  2  Tbsp.  butter 

In  a  6  to  8  quart  saucepan  or  pot,  boil  chicken  and  water  for  10 
minutes,  covered.  Add  milk,  green  pepper,  salt  and  black  pepper. 
Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  occasionally,  until  meat  begins  to  come 
off  drumsticks.  Set  pan  aside  and  remove  chicken  to  cool.  Shred 
chicken  with  fingers.  Discard  bones.  In  a  blender,  puree  the  chicken 

154389  -  21  - 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SQUPS   &  SANDWiCHES 

skin  and  green  pepper  together  with  a  small  amount  of  broth  in 
which  the  chicken  was  cooked.  Add  with  chicken  meat  to  broth  on 
low  heat.  Make  a  thickening  of  flour  and  Vz  cup  cold  broth  or  cooking 
liquid,  gradually  blend  in  additional  broth  from  the  pot,  stirring  to 
keep  mixture  smooth.  Combine  both  mixtures  in  pot.  Add  butter. 
Bring  to  a  boil. 

Ruby  Petree 

STRAWBERRY  SOUP 

1  Vz  c.  water  1  qt.  strawberries,  pureed 
Vac.  red  wine  Vz  c.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  Vz  c.  heavy  cream 
cinnamon  sticks  Vtc.  sour  cream 

Combine  water,  wine,  lemon  juice  and  cinnamon  sticks.  Boil  15 
minutes,  then  add  strawberry  puree  and  sugar.  Boil  10  minutes 
more  and  cool.  Combine  cream  and  sour  cream  and  fold  into  straw- 
berry mixture.  Serve  at  room  temperature.  Garnish  each  portion 
with  a  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  and  a  cinnamon  stick.  Serves  4. 

Jane  Bardou 

CHICKEN  CHOWDER 

2  whole  chicken  breasts  V*  tsp.  pepper 

4  c.  water  2  medium  carrots,  chopped 

Vz  tsp.  salt  1  (1 7  oz.)  can  cream-style  corn 

2  medium  potatoes,  cubed  1  (1 5  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 

Combine  chicken  breasts,  water  and  salt  in  Dutch  oven;  bring 
to  a  boil.  Cover  and  simmer  for  30  to  45  minutes.  Remove  chicken 
and  reserve  3  cups  broth.  Add  potatoes  and  carrots  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Cover  and  simmer  10  to  12  minutes.  Add  chicken  (cut  in  bite 
size  pieces),  corn,  tomato  sauce  and  pepper.  Cover  and  simmer  15 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Yields  2  quarts. 

Betty  Lea  Joyce 


22- 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

MANHATTAN  CLAM   CHOWDER 

3  Tbsp.  margarine  1  medium  potato,  peeled  and  diced 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  3  celery  stalks,  diced 

3  (6 1/2  oz.)  cans  chopped  clams  and  3  or  4  hay  leaves 

juice  pinch  of  dried  oregano,  crumbled 

1  or  2  (8  oz.)  bottles  clam  juice  minced  fresh  parsley 

16  oz.  can  stewed  tomatoes  salt  and  ground  pepper 

3  oz.  {Yz  can)  tomato  paste  or  dash  of  hot  sauce 

tomato  sauce  garlic 

Melt  margarine  in  2  quart  saucepan  over  medium  heat.  Add 
onion  and  saute  until  softened,  about  10  minutes.  Blend  in  remain- 
ing ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  1  hour. 
Serve  hot. 

Janice  Sykes 


RIDDICK  BOWLES'  OYSTER  STEW 

I  pt.  oysters  with  liquor  Vb  tsp.  pepper 

I  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  1  qt.  milk 

I  tsp.  salt 

Place  cleaned  oysters,  liquor  and  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Simmer 
gently  until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl.  Heat  milk;  do  not  boil.  Add 
)ysters  to  milk,  Serve  at  once.  (Half  milk  and  half  cream  may  be 
ised,  or  half  and  half.)  Serves  6. 

Margaret  Bowles 


POTATO  SOUP  WITH  BACON 

!  c.  diced  peeled  potatoes  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  cubed 

!  medium  onion,  chopped  2  c.  milk 

i.  lb.  bacon  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cover  potatoes  and  onion  with  water  and  boil  until  soft.  Do  not 
Irain.  Add  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  about  15  minutes.  When 
lone,  add  eggs.  Fry  bacon  until  crisp.  Sprinkle  crumbled  bacon  on 
op  of  each  bowl  of  soup. 

Frances  Binkley 

54389  -  23  - 


APPETiZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SOUPS  &  SANDWICHES 

CORN  CHOWDER 

1  lb.  sausage  1  (17  oz.)  can  cream-style  corn 

Vz  c.  chopped  onion  1  (17  oz.)  can  whole  kernel  corn 

y«  c.  flour  3  medium  potatoes,  cubed  and 

4  c.  milk  boiled  for  10  minutes 

1  egg,  beaten  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Saute  sausage  and  onion;  drain.  Add  flour  and  stir  well.  Add 
milk.  Gradually  add  small  amount  of  milk  mixture  to  egg.  Add  to 
chowder  along  with  all  other  ingredients.  Heat  until  mixture  is  hot. 

Julia  A.  Spainhour 

RUSSIAN  CHICKEN  BURGERS 

1  Vz  lb.  chicken  breasts  pinch  of  cayenne 

1  c.  fine  bread  crumbs  Vb  tsp.  nutmeg 

tec.  cream  salt  and  pepper 

Discard  all  skin,  bones  and  fat  from  chicken.  Blend  in  food  pro- 
cessor until  a  bit  coarse  in  texture.  Add  cream,  V2  cup  bread  crumbs 
and  seasonings.  Divide  into  4  to  5  patties.  Roll  in  remaining  bread 
crumbs.  Heat  2  tablespoons  oil  in  electric  skillet  at  medium  heat. 
Fry  2  to  3  minutes  on  1  side,  turn,  fry  10  minutes  on  other.  Pass  Stro- 
ganoff  Sauce  to  top. 

Stroganoff  Sauce: 

1  Tbsp.  butter  Va  tsp.  dried  thyme 

V4  c.  finely  chopped  onion  V3  c.  cream 

Vz  tsp.  paprika  Vic.  sour  cream 

1  Tbsp.  red  wine  vinegar  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Melt  butter;  saute  onion  and  paprika.  Add  vinegar  and  thyme; 
cook  until  the  vinegar  is  mostly  evaporated.  Add  cream  and  reduce 
by  V2.  Add  sour  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Makes  V2  cup,  enough  for  1 
recipe  of  Chicken  Burgers. 

Pam  Southerland 

SANTA  SANDWICHES 

sandwich  bread  red  candy  (gumdrops  or  Lifesavers) 

peanut  butter  or  spread  of  your  raisins 

choice  thin  stick  pretzels 


24 


APPETIZERS,   BEVERAGES,   SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

Make  sandwich.  Cut  diagonally.  Put  three  pretzels  at  two  cor- 
ners of  triangle  to  look  like  antlers  (in  between  bread).  Put  red  candy 
at  other  corner  for  nose.  Put  two  raisins  above  nose  for  eyes.  Merry 
Christmas! 

Beth  Steelman 


HEALTHY  VEGETABLE  SANDWICHES 

2  carrots  2  stalks  celery 

2  small  onions  1  cucumber 

1  green  pepper  2  tsp.  Miracle  Whip 

2  tomatoes  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Grate  vegetables  and  mix  together.  Let  stand  overnight.  Drain 
and  mix  with  dressing.  Will  make  a  heap  of  party  sandwiches. 

Pamela  Robbins 


CUCUMBER  AND  ONION  SANDWICHES 

1  large  cucumber,  not  peeled  1  large  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  small  onion  approximately  1  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

Chop  cucumber  and  onion  in  blender.  Drain.  Add  cream 
cheese  and  mayonnaise.  Mix  thoroughly.  This  is  especially  good  on 
rye  party  bread. 

Kathleen  Robbins 


VEGETABLE  SALAD  SANDWICH 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  1  green  pepper,  chopped 
jll  pt.  mayonnaise  (2  c.)  1  c.  celery,  chopped 

2  tomatoes,  chopped  1  carrot,  chopped 

i  1  cucumber,  chopped  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1 1  small  onion,  chopped  1  tsp.  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 

Soak  gelatine  in  V\  cup  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  Va  cup  boiling 
water.  Let  cool.  Stir  in  mayonnaise.  Mix  chopped  vegetables  and 
drain  well.  Add  to  the  gelatine/mayonnaise  mixture.  Salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Let  set  over- 
night. Spread  on  bread. 

Pryce  Foxworth 

154389  -  25  - 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES,  SOUPS   &  SANDWICHES 

VEGETABLE  SANDWICH  SPREAD 


1  medium  carrot 
1  small  green  pepper 
1  or  2  spears  celery 


1  extra  small  onion 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

equal  amount  of  mayonnaise 


Cut  vegetables  in  as  small  pieces  as  possible.  Mix  cream  cheese 
and  mayonnaise  together.  Mix  in  vegetables.  Use  dash  of  salt  and 
one  or  two  drops  vinegar. 

Irene  Crim 
OPEN-FACED  REUBENS 


Vz  (8  oz.)  can  sauerkraut,  drained 

1  small  carrot,  shredded 

2  slices  rye  bread 

Vic.  bottled  creamy  Russian 
dressing 


1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  sliced  corned  beef 
or  Va  lb.  cooked  corned  beef 

V2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  Swiss  cheese  slices 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 


In  small  bowl  toss  sauerkraut  and  carrot.  On  bread  slices 
arrange  corned  beef,  then  Russian  dressing,  cheese  and  sauerkraut 
mixture.  Melt  margarine  in  10-inch  skillet  over  low  heat.  Arrange 
Reubens,  bread  side  down,  in  skillet.  Cover  skillet  and  cook  until 
bread  is  browned  and  cheese  is  melted,  about  5  minutes.  Serves  2 
people. 

Pat  Whitt 
CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  SANDWICH 


12  slices  sandwich  bread 
Vic.  butter 
2  to  3  tsp.  mustard 
2  c.  chopped  chicken 
1  c.  shredded  cheese 


Vb  c.  chopped  onion 
2  tsp.  chopped  pimento 
V-2  tsp.  salt  and  pepper 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  pkg.  frozen  peas 


Heat  oven  to  350°.  Blend  mustard  and  butter  and  spread  on 
bread.  Place  on  baking  sheet.  Combine  chicken,  cheese,  onion, 
pimento,  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  mixture  on  bread.  Combine  soup 
and  peas.  Spoon  over  sandwiches.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes.  Makes  6 
servings. 

Elizabeth  Reed 


-26- 


THE  MORAVIAN  SEAL 

The  seal  of  the  Moravian  Church,  first  used  by  bishops, 
is  of  early  origin;  going  back  to  the  Unitas  Fratrum  of  the 
sixteenth  century  certainly,  and  probably  to  the  time  when 
the  episcopate  was  secured  by  the  Brethren  in  the  fifteenth 
century. 

The  seal  was  transferred  to  the  bishops  of  the  renewed 
Unitas  Fratrum,  or  Moravian  Church,  when  David 
Nitschmann  received  episcopal  consecration  from  the 
bishops  of  the  ancient  line,  Jablonsky  and  Sitkovius. 

In  the  center  of  the  seal  is  an  Agnus  Dei  (Lamb  of  God), 
which  was  a  favorite  symbol  in  the  early  Christian  church. 
It  is  the  figure  of  a  lamb  holding  a  staff  with  a  cross  at  the 
top.  From  the  staff  hangs  the  banner  of  victory,  and  on  the 
banner  is  another  cross.  Around  the  seal  there  is  the 
inscription,  Vicit  agnus  noster,  eum  sequamur,  "Our  Lamb 
has  conquered,  let  us  follow  Him." 


How  To  Can  Vegetables 


POINTS  ON  PACKING 

Raw  pack.  Pack  cold  raw  vegetables 
(except  corn,  lima  beans,  and  peas) 
tightly  into  container  and  cover  with 
boiling  water. 

Hot  pack.  Preheat  vegetables  in 
water  or  steam.  Cover  with  cooking 
liguid  or  boiling  water.  Cooking  liquid 
is  recommended  for  packing  most 
vegetables  because  it  may  contain 
minerals  and  vitamins  dissolved  out  of 
the  food.  Boiling  water  is 
recommended  when  cooking  liquid  is 
dark,  gritty  or  strong-flavored,  and 
when  there  isn  't  enough  cooking  liquid. 
HOW  TO  CHECK  CANNING  JARS 

The  first  step  in  home  canning  should 
take  place  long  before  food  and 
equipment  are  assembled  and  ready  to 
go.  Jars  and  other  supplies  should  be 
checked  prior  to  the  canning  session. 
In  that  way,  you  can  replace  damaged 
supplies  and  purchase  new  ones  to 
avoid  costly  delays  or  inconvenience. 

Here  are  some  tips  to  help  you. 

Choosing  masonjars.  Jars  manu- 
factured especially  for  home  canning 
generically  are  called  masonjars  and 
must  be  used  when  preserving.  They  are 
designed  with  a  specially  threaded  mouth 
for  proper  sealing  with  mason  lids.  So, 
can  with  standard  masonjars  only. 

Preparing  glass  jars.  Check  all  jars, 
rings  and  lids  carefully.  Discard  any 
with  nicks  or  cracks  in  top  sealing  edge 
and  threads  that  may  prevent  airtight 
seals.  Rings  should  be  free  of  dents  or 
rust.  Select  the  size  of  closures  — 
widemouth  or  regular  —  that  fits  your 
jar.  Wash  jars  in  hot,  soapy  water  and 
rinse  well.  Then  place  in  boiling  water 
for  10-15  minutes.  Keep  jars  in  hot 
water  until  ready  to  use.  Boil  lid 
according  to  package  directions. 

Closing  glassjars.  Always  wipe  jar 
rim  clean  after  food  product  is  packed. 
Place  lid  on  jar  with  button  side  up. 
Screw  rings  on  firmly,  but  don 't  force. 
Do  not  re-tighten  rings  after  processing 
or  cooling. 

A  new  lid  that  snaps  down  and  clicks 
as  the  jar  cools,  providing  visible  proof 
of  sealing,  called  Magic  Button  (R)  is 
made  by  Owens-Illinois.  Its  red  button 
pops  up  when  the  seal  is  broken.  The 
Magic  Masonjars  that  go  with  the 

Copyright   ©  1978  Fu 

1543-9 


special  lids  have  metric  measurements 
as  well  as  customary  U.S.  measurements 
molded  on  the  side. 

Jar  transfer.  Use  jar  lifter  or  long- 
handled  canning  tongs  to  transferjars 
to  and  from  canner  safely.  Place  hot 
jars  on  rack  or  towel,  allowing 
2 -inches  of  air  space  on  all  sides  for 
jars  to  cool  evenly. 

PROCESSING  IN  A 
PRESSURE  CANNER 

Use  a  steam-pressure  canner  for  pro- 
cessing all  vegetables  except  tomatoes 
and  pickled  vegetables. 

Directions.  Follow  the  manufactur- 
er's directions  for  the  canner  you  are 
using.  Here  are  a  few  pointers  on  the 
use  of  any  steam-pressure  canner: 

•  Put  2  or  3  inches  of  boiling  water  in 
the  bottom  of  the  canner;  the  amount 
of  water  to  use  depends  on  the  size 
and  shape  of  the  canner. 

•Set  filled  glassjars  or  tin  cans  on 
rack  in  canner  so  that  steam  can  flow 
around  each  container.  If  two  layers  of 
cans  or  jars  are  put  in,  stagger  the 
second  layer.  Use  a  rack  between 
layers  of  glassjars. 

•Fasten  canner  cover  securely  so 
that  no  steam  can  escape  except 
through  vent  (petcock  or  weighted- 
gage  opening). 

•  Watch  until  steam  pours  steadily  from 
vent.  Let  it  escape  for  1 0  minutes  or  more 
to  drive  all  air  from  the  canner.  Then  close 
petcock  or  put  on  weighted  gage. 

•  Let  pressure  rise  to  10  pounds  (240 
degrees  F.)  The  moment  this  pressure 
is  reached,  start  counting  processing 
time.  Keep  pressure  constant  by 
regulating  heat  under  the  canner.  Dc 
not  lower  pressure  by  opening 
petcock.  Keep  drafts  from  blowing  on 
canner. 

•  When  processing  time  is  up,  remove 
canner  from  heat  immediately. 

With  glassjars,  let  canner  stand 
until  pressure  is  zero.  Never  try  to  rush 
the  cooling  by  pouring  cold  water  over 
the  canner.  When  pressure  registers 
zero,  wait  a  minute  or  two,  then  slowly 
open  petcock  or  take  off  weighted 
gage.  Unfasten  cover  and  tilt  the  far 
side  up  so  steam  escapes  away  from 
you.  Take  jars  from  canner. 

ndcraft  Publishing,  Inc 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 


1  can  asparagus 
3  hard-boiled  eggs 
1  can  mushroom  soup 
3Tbsp.  flour 


3Tbsp.  butter 

1  small  can  tiny  whole  onions 

Vfe  c.  grated  cheese 

handful  of  bleached  almonds 


Heat  mushroom  soup  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter.  Put 
asparagus  and  onions  in  casserole  dish  and  layer  with  sliced  eggs. 
Pour  mushroom  mixture  on  top.  Sprinkle  throughout  with  almonds. 
Top  with  grated  cheese  and  heat  slowly  in  oven.  This  may  be  made 
in  the  morning  and  refrigerated  until  dinner  time,  heating  before 
serving. 

Ruby  Petree 


ASPARAGUS 


2  small  cans  all  green  asparagus 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 
Vz  c.  grated  cheese 

Sauce: 

1  Vz  Tbsp.  butter 
1  teTbsp.  flour 


1  Vz  c.  cream  sauce 

Vz  c.  blanched  almonds,  slivered 


1  VfcTbsp.  hot  milk 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Place  alternate  layers  of  asparagus,  sauce,  eggs  and  almonds  in 
casserole  and  bake  20  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Combine  all 
sauce  ingredients  and  add  grated  cheese  to  sauce  just  before  using. 

Janice  Sykes 


CONGEALED  ASPARAGUS  SALAD 


V4C.  sugar 
Vz  c.  vinegar 

1  c.  water 
Vz  tsp.  salt 

2  envelopes  unflavored  gelatin 
Vz  c.  water 


1  c.  chopped  celery 
Vz  c.  pecans 

1  small  can  cut  asparagus 
1  small  jar  pimento 
Vz  chopped  onion 


164389 


27 


FRUJT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Combine  sugar,  vinegar,  1  cup  water  and  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Sim 
mer  5  minutes  and  add  2  envelopes  unflavored  gelatin  dissolved  in  Vi 
cup  water.  Add  Vz  cup  water,  celery,  pecans,  asparagus,  pimento  and 
onion.  Congeal. 

Pryce  Foxworth 


GREEN  BEAN  CASSEROLE 


2  (16  oz.)  cans  French-style  green 

beans 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 


8  V2  oz.  can  water  chestnuts 
1  can  French  fried  onion  rings 
1  small  can  chopped  mushrooms 


Drain  and  slice  thinly  the  water  chestnuts.  Toss  together  light 
ly  the  water  chestnuts,  beans  and  mushrooms.  Gently  stir  in  the 
mushroom  soup.  Grease  a  baking  dish.  Put  the  mixture  in  the  bak 
ingdish  and  bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Sprinkle  the 
onions  evenly  over  the  top  of  the  beans  and  bake  5  minutes  longer 
Be  careful,  the  onions  will  burn  easily.  This  can  be  made  by  using 
only  the  green  beans,  soup  and  onion  rings,  but  the  other  ingredients 
make  it  better. 

Delia  Matthews 


GREEN  BEANS  WITH  CHEESE 


1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  French-style 

green  beans 
1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 

softened 


1  Tbsp.  light  cream 
%  tsp.  celery  seed 
Va  tsp.  salt 


Cook  beans;  drain.  Combine  remaining  ingredients;  spoon  over 
beans.  If  desired,  drain  one  4  ounce  can  sliced  mushrooms;  brown  in 
butter.  Use  for  trim.  Serves  four. 


Michelle  Corthren 


GREEN   BEAN  MARINADE 


28  oz.  can  green  beans,  drained 

1  small  onion,  chopped 

1  small  jar  diced  pimentos,  drained 


6  Tbsp.  sugar 

6  Tbsp.  red  wine  vinegar 


-28 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 


Mix  green  beans,  chopped  onion  and  pimentos.  Mix  together 
vinegar  and  sugar  and  pour  over  green  beans.  Stir  and  let  set  for 
about  6  hours  or  overnight. 

Nancy  Rutledge 

1 

GARBANZO  BEAN  SALAD 

Va  c.  olive  oil  2  (15  oz.)  cans  garbanzo  beans 
3  Tbsp.  red  wine  vinegar  (chickpeas) 

1  tsp.  cumin  Vz  c.  parsley 

2  stalks  celery,  diced  Vz  medium  red  onion 

Mix  olive  oil,  vinegar  and  cumin  together  with  a  wire  whisk.  In 
:  another  bowl,  mix  the  rinsed  beans  with  remaining  ingredients. 
Pour  olive  oil  mixture  over  this  and  toss  well.  This  salad  should  be 
served  cold  and  is  even  better  the  second  day. 

Clark  Larson 


BAKED  BE 

\  2  cans  (24  to  31  oz.)  pork  and  beans  4  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 

•  1  lb.  ground  beef  1  c.  catsup 

1  c.  chopped  green  pepper  2  Tbsp.  butter 

Use  2  tablespoons  butter  to  brown  ground  beef.  Add  green  pep- 
per, brown  sugar  and  catsup.  Add  beans.  Put  in  a  baking  dish.  Add 
1  onion  stuck  with  cloves.  Bake  covered  at  350°  for  1  hour. 

Brenda  Reich 


GRANNY'S  BAKED   BEANS 

1  lb.  ground  chuck  1  onion,  thinly  sliced 

:  1  can  (1  lb.  15  oz.)  pork  and  beans  Vac.  brown  sugar,  packed 

1  pt.  can  tomatoes  3  slices  bacon 
1  tsp.  salt 

Brown  meat  in  hot  skillet;  stir  often.  Add  pork  and  beans, 
tomatoes  and  salt.  Pour  half  of  mixture  in  9  x  13-inch  baking  dish. 
Add  layer  of  sliced  onion  and  cover  with  remaining  beef  mixture.  Top 
with  strips  of  bacon  and  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.  Bake  at  375°  for 
one  hour. 

Lucille  S.  James 


154389  -  29  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DiSHES 

ZESTY  BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped  Va  c.  milk 

broccoli  V*  c.  mayonnaise 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  1  Tbsp.  horseradish 

1  Vfe  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  2  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

1  egg,  beaten  V*  c.  cracker  crumbs 

Cook  broccoli  according  to  package  directions;  drain.  Combin 
soup,  cheese,  egg,  milk,  mayonnaise  and  horseradish  and  stir  into  th 
broccoli.  Spoon  into  a  greased  2  quart  casserole  dish.  Combine  but 
ter  and  cracker  crumbs;  sprinkle  over  broccoli  mixture.  Bake  at  350 
for  45  minutes. 

Nancy  F.  Duggin 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

6  oz.  pkg.  long  grain  wild  rice  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  sliced  celery  2  c.  milk 

2  pkg.  (10  oz.)  broccoli  spears,  1  chicken  bouillon  cube 
cooked  and  drained  Vz  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

3  Tbsp.  margarine  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
3  Tbsp.  flour 

Cook  rice  by  package  directions.  Stir  in  celery.  Place  in  an  ever 
layer  in  shallow  2  quart  casserole  dish.  Place  cooked  broccoli  on  th* 
rice.  Melt  butter;  add  flour  and  salt.  Add  milk  and  bouillon.  Coot 
and  stir  constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Stir  in  V4  cup  cheese  anc 
lemon  juice.  Pour  over  broccoli.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese 
Bake  at  375°  for  20  minutes. 

Doris  Colliei 


BROCCOLI-RICE  CASSEROLE 

10  oz.  pkg.  frozen,  chopped  broccoli  8  oz.  jar  process  cheese  spread 

Vz  c.  chopped  onion  1 0  %  oz.  can  cream  of  mushroom 

V%  c.  butter  or  margarine  soup,  undiluted 
1  Vfe  c.  cooked  rice 

Combine  broccoli  and  onion;  cook  according  to  package  direc- 
tions. Drain  and  add  remaining  ingredients;  stir  well.  Pour  into  a 
greased  2  quart  shallow  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 
Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

Nancy  F.  Duggins 


30- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 


RITZ  BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 


2  pkg.  chopped,  frozen  broccoli 
1  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 
Vi  c.  mayonnaise 


1  can  mushroom  soup 
Ritz  crackers,  crushed 


Cook  broccoli  in  salted  water  and  drain.  Add  remaining  ingre- 
dients. Top  with  cheese  and  Ritz  crackers.  Bake  at  350°  until  it 
bubbles. 


Mavareen  Foil 


BROCCOLI  SALAD 


2  bunches  fresh  broccoli  (use  only 

florets) 
4  hard-boiled  eggs 
24  stuffed  olives  (green  with 

pimento) 


Vz  c.  chopped  onion 
water  chestnuts  (optional) 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
y<*c.  mayonnaise 


Chop  eggs,  olives,  onion  and  water  chestnuts  fine;  mix  with  V4 
cup  mayonnaise  and  tad  of  olive  juice.  Season  to  taste.  Make  one  day 
ahead. 


Valia  Kane 


CAULIFLOWER  AND  BROCCOLI  SALAD 


1  c.  mayonnaise 
1  Tbsp.  sugar 
1  Tbsp.  vinegar 
1  tsp.  salt 
V2  tsp.  pepper 


1  head  cauliflower,  cut  into  florets 

(about  7  c.) 
1  bunch  broccoli;  broken  into  florets 

(about  4  c.) 
1  medium-sized  onion,  chopped 

(about  1  c.) 


Mix  mayonnaise,  sugar,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  in  a  large  bowl. 
Add  vegetables  and  toss  to  mix.  Serve  soon  or  cover  and  chill  for  up 
to  two  days.  Makes  about  10  cups. 

Gail  Skidmore 


BROCCOLI  SALAD 


1  head  broccoli  tops 
1  small  red  onion  (V^c.) 
8  strips  bacon,  cooked  crisp  and 
chopped 


to  c.  sugar 
1  tsp.  vinegar 
%c.  mayonnaise 


154389 


31 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 


Mix  together  sugar,  vinegar  and  mayonnaise.  Pour  over  broc- 
coli, onion  and  bacon.  Mix  thoroughly.  Refrigerate. 

Mary  Whin 


CARROT  CASSEROLE 

2  c.  cooked  carrots,  mashed  (about  3  Tbsp.  flour 

1  ib.)  3  eggs,  beaten 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 
1  stick  margarine 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  30  to  40  minutes 
Will  rise  in  center  when  done.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Pat  Crater  Zubet 


COPPER  CARROT  PENNIES 

2  Ib.  carrots  1  can  tomato  soup 
1  medium  onion  1  c.  sugar 

V2  c.  salad  oil  1  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard 

Y<i  c,  vinegar  1  small  green  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Slice  and  boil  carrots  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and. 
when  cool  alternate  a  layer  of  carrots,  a  layer  of  pepper  rings  and  a 
layer  of  thinly  sliced  onion  rings.  Make  a  marinade  of  remaining 
ingredients,  beating  until  well  blended.  Pour  mixture  over  vegeta- 
bles and  refrigerate.  Will  keep  for  days  in  the  refrigerator. 

Pryce  Foxworth 

PAT'S  COLE  SLAW 

3  Ib.  cabbage,  shredded  1  Tbsp.  mustard  seed 
1  Tbsp.  salt  1  Tbsp.  celery  seed 

1  c.  vinegar  1  small  onion  (optional) 

1  c.  water  3  or  4  grated  carrots 

1  c.  sugar  1  large  green  pepper,  diced 

Bring  to  a  boil  water,  vinegar,  salt,  mustard  seed  and  celery 
seed.  Let  cool.  Pour  over  shredded  cabbage  and  all  other  ingredi- 
ents; it  should  cover  the  cabbage.  Keep  refrigerated  24  hours  before 
serving. 

Margie  Peterson 


-32- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

REFRIGERATOR  COLE  SLAW 

3  lb.  cabbage  Vs  c.  salt 

1  onion,  grated  1  c.  sugar 

1  pepper,  chopped  1  c.  vinegar 
1  carrot,  grated 

Combine  cabbage,  onion,  pepper,  carrot  and  9alt.  Let  set  for  15 
to  30  minutes.  Squeeze  all  salt  water  out  of  cabbage  mixture  and  mix 
with  sugar  and  vinegar.  Stir  well  to  dissolve.  Chill.  Will  keep  in 
refrigerator  for  a  good  while. 

Pam  Souther/and 


CABBAGE  CASSEROLE 

1  small  head  cabbage,  chopped  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1  small  onion,  chopped  soda  crackers 

:  2  ribs  celery,  diced  melted  butter 

Boil  all  ingredients  together  in  a  small  amount  of  water.  Drain. 
Add  1  can  of  cream  of  celery  soup  to  the  mixture  and  toss  gently.  Put 
3in  an  oblong  baking  dish  which  has  been  buttered.   Crumble  some 
soda  crackers  over  the  top  and  then  pour  on  a  little  melted  butter. 
Bake  20  minutes  at  350°. 

Delia  Matthews 


CELERY  BAKE 

3  to  4  c.  celery,  cut  on  a  slant  v*  tsp.  pepper 

1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts,  pinch  of  curry 

drained  1  stick  butter 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  1  roll  Ritz  crackers,  crushed 

Simmer  celery  until  tender.    Drain.   Add  1  can  sliced  water 
chestnuts,  mushroom  soup,  pepper  and  curry.  Pour  into  casserole 
( dish.    Add  roll  of  crushed  Ritz  crackers  to  1  stick  melted  butter. 
Sprinkle  on  top  of  casserole.  Bake  20  to  25  minutes  at  350°. 

For  Main  Dish :  Add  2  cups  cooked  chicken  and  an  additional  can 
of  celery  soup.  Bake  in  a  9  x  13-inch  baking  dish. 

Mary  Whitt 

154389  -  33  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 


CORN  PUDDING 


1  (No.  2)  can  creamed  corn 
4 Tbsp.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  flour 
Vi  tsp.  salt 


4  eggs,  beaten 

1  c.  whole  milk 

V4  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 


Mix  eggs,  milk  and  butter;  stir  in  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  nutmeg. 
Add  corn.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Cook  in  350°  oven  for  1  hour  or 
until  light  brown  on  top.  If  you  place  the  baking  dish  in  a  pan  of 
water  to  cook,  pudding  is  less  likely  to  stick. 

Lib  Steelman 


CORN  AND  RICE  SALAD 


1  (16  oz.)  can  whole  kernel  corn, 
drained 

2  c.  cooked  rice 

Va  c.  chopped  red  and/or  green 

pepper 
V'4C.  sliced  green  onion 
v*.c.  chopped  ripe  olives 

3  Tbsp.  olive  oil 

3  Tbsp.  white  wine  vinegar 


2  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  fresh  parsley  or  1  Tbsp. 

dried  parsley 
Vfe  tsp.  Dijon  mustard 
y*tsp.  garlic  powder 
8  cherry  tomatoes,  sliced 
1  Tbsp.  finely  shredded  Parmesan 

cheese 


Combine  corn,  cooled  rice,  pepper,  onion  and  olives.  Combine 
oil,  vinegar,  soy  sauce,  parsley,  mustard  and  garlic  powder.  Mix  well 
and  pour  over  corn  mixture.  Cover  and  chill  several  hours.  Stir  in 
tomatoes  and  top  with  Parmesan  cheese. 

Susan  Gall 


LIMA  AND  CORN  CASSEROLE 


Vac.  butter 

1/4C.  chopped  onion 

Va  c.  flour 

1/2  c.  milk 

Vi  c.  grated  mild  cheese 

V*  c.  chopped  pimento 


1  small  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 
cooked  limas 
cooked  corn 
bread  crumbs 
pepper  to  taste 


Melt  butter,  add  onions  and  saute.  Blend  in  flour  and  add  milk 
and  cheese  and  pepper  to  taste.   Let  thicken  and  add  pimento  and 


34- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE   SIDE   DISHES 

water  chestnuts.  Mix  cooked,  drained  limas  and  corn.  Put  in  a  bak- 
ing dish;  alternate  with  sauce.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  25 
minutes  at  350°. 

Mavareen  Foil 


BAKED   EGGPLANT 

\  c.  mashed  eggplant  2  c.  saltine  crackers 

k  oz.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese  Vb  tsp.  oregano 

A  c.  butter  parsley 

,1  c.  onion  salt 

fa  green  pepper,  chopped  pepper 
faz.  celery,  chopped 


Mix  all  together,  except  cheese.  Pour  into  greased  casserole  and 
Dake  at  350°  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Add  grated  cheese  and  bake  for  20 
minutes  more. 

Ruby  Petree 

ONION  DELUXE  CASSEROLE 

t  stick  butter,  melted  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1c.  sliced  onions  Vic.  water 

6  c.  slivered  almonds  V2  c.  crushed  cornflakes 

i 

Melt  butter.  Place  onions  in  greased  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle 
almonds  over  onions.  Spoon  mushroom  soup  with  the  Vi  cup  water 
added,  over  almonds.  Sprinkle  cornflakes  over  top.  Pour  melted  but- 
ter over  all.  Bake  350°  uncovered  for  1  hour. 

Doris  Ward 

ONION  PIE 

I  V2  c.  thinly  sliced  onions  V2  tsp.  salt 

5  Tbsp.  butter  cayenne  pepper 

I  V2  c.  coarsely  broken  crackers  2  eggs,  beaten 

/<jtsp.  curry  powder  1  V2  c.  grated  cheese 

I  (4  oz.)  can  mushrooms  1  c.  milk 

Saute  onions  in  2  tablespoons  butter  in  skillet  for  5  minutes. 
Melt  remaining  butter  and  mix  with  cracker  crumbs  and  curry;  line 
pie  pan  with  crumb  mixture.   Arrange  onions  in  the  cracker  base. 

154389  -  35  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Blend  milk,  mushrooms,  salt,  cayenne,  eggs  and  cheese.  Pour  ove 
onions.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  50  minutes  or  until  firm. 

Bertie  Mae  Fusse 


PATTY  CAKES 

2  medium  onions,  grated  2  eggs 

2  c.  squash  or  zucchini,  grated  salt  and  pepper 

STbsp.  flour  margarine 
1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Stir  eggs  into  a  bowl  with  squash  and  onions.  Add  salt,  pepper 
flour  and  baking  powder;  mix  well.  Pour  batter  into  melted  marga 
rine  in  skillet.  Fry  patties  on  both  sides.  (Can  serve  with  sour  crearr 
or  applesauce  on  top.) 

Nancy  Reea 


ORANGE  SWEET  POTATOES 

1 0  medium  sweet  potatoes  V«  c.  melted  butter 

1  tsp.  salt  2  tsp.  grated  orange  rind 
%  c.  sugar  1  vfe  c.  orange  juice 

Cook  potatoes  until  soft  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Drain  and  peel. 
Mash  with  electric  mixer  while  hot.  Add  salt,  sugar  and  butter. 
Gradually  add  orange  juice.  Put  mixture  in  a  large,  greased,  flat  pan 
and  bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  about  35  minutes.  Makes  10  servings. 

Peggy  Carter 

GRATED  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

4  Vz  c.  raw  sweet  potatoes  V4  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  c.  milk  Vz  tsp.  nutmeg 
2  c.  sugar  vfe  tsp.  salt 

4  eggs,  slightly  beaten  1  tsp.  vanilla 

4Tbsp.  melted  butter 

Grate  the  raw  sweet  potatoes  into  the  milk  to  keep  from  turning 
dark.  Add  other  ingredients  in  this  order:  sugar,  eggs,  butter,  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg,  salt  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  large  well  greased  casse- 
role. Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  1  hour  and  30  to  40  minutes.  Stir  at  least 
twice  during  the  baking.  Serve  warm.   Cold  pudding  may  be  sliced 


36- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

and  serve  with  whipped  cream  as  "Sweet  Potato  Pone."  Makes  25 
servings. 

Pam  Southerland 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  ORANGE  SAUCE 


V2C.  brown  sugar 
1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 
V4tsp.  salt 
1  c.  orange  juice 


Vac.  margarine 

3  V2  c.  fresh  cooked  sweet  potatoes, 
sliced,  or  1  can  (1  lb.  13oz.) 


Combine  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt;  add  orange  juice  and  but- 
Ij  ter.  Cook;  stir  constantly  until  sugar  dissolves  and  mixture  thickens. 
Pour  over  sweet  potatoes  in  baking  dish.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  20 
minutes.  Serves  6. 

Margaret  Bowles 
SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 


2  c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes 
V2  stick  butter 
Vic.  milk 

Topping: 

1V4C.  flour 
V2  c.  sugar 
1  stick  butter 


1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 


1egg 

chopped  nuts  and/or  coconut 
(optional) 


Mix  all  ingredients  except  topping  in  mixer.  Put  in  a  dish  and 
cover  with  topping. 

Topping:  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  sugar  and  blend.  Add  egg 
and  optional  ingredients.  Pour  on  top  of  casserole  and  bake  for  30  to 
40  minutes  (or  until  lightly  browned)  at  350°. 

Catherine  Whitney 


CREAMY  PARSLIED  NEW  POTATOES 


16  c.  melted  butter 
)  medium  new  potatoes,  cooked 

and  diced 
I  large  onion,  chopped 
i2  c.  minced  parsley 


54389 


1  tsp.  salt 

yotsp.  pepper 

1  (8  oz.)  sour  cream 

Vz  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


37 


FRUiT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Combine  butter,  potatoes,  onion,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  in  a 
large  saucepan.  Cover  and  cook  over  low  heat  30  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Stir  in  sour  cream  and  Parmesan  cheese.  Continue 
cooking  10  to  15  minutes  more.  Serves  8. 

Penny  Goode 


PATRICIAN  POTATOES 

4  c.  mashed  potatoes  Vfe  tsp.  pepper 

3  c.  cottage  cheese  2  or  3  egg  yolks 

%  c.  sour  cream  melted  butter 

1  Vz  Tbsp.  onion  flakes  Vz  c.  sliced  almonds 

2  Vz  tsp.  salt 


!; 


w 


Mash  potatoes  well  without  milk.  Process  cheese,  then  mix 
with  potatoes.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Spoon  into 
greased  shallow  2  quart  casserole.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Bake 
at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Cover  with  almonds  and  place  under  broiler 
a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

Jane  Bardou 

HOT  GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD 

4  medium  potatoes  1  Vz  tsp.  salt 

6  slices  bacon  Vz  tsp.  celery  seed 

%  c.  chopped  onion  dash  of  pepper 

2  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour  2h  c.  water 

4  to  6  tsp.  sugar  6  Tbsp.  vinegar 

Boil  potatoes  in  jackets.  Peel  and  slice  thinly.  Fry  bacon,  drain 
and  crumble.  Saute  onion  in  bacon  fat  until  brown.  Blend  in  flour 
and  seasonings.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  until  smooth  and  bub- 
bly. Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  water  and  vinegar.  Bring  mixture  to 
a  boil  for  one  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Add  potatoes  and  bacon; 
remove  from  heat  and  cover  until  ready  to  serve. 

Nancy  Ruiledge 

BAKED  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

1  to  2  lb.  pkg.  frozen  hash  brown  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

potatoes  1  pt.  sour  cream 

Vz  c.  melted  butter  2  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Vz  c.  chopped  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


38- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 


Mix  all  together  and  bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes.   Add  more 
cheese  on  top  just  before  removing  from  oven. 

Ruby  Petree 


HASH  BROWN  POTATO  CASSEROLE 


2  lb.  bag  hash  brown  potatoes, 

frozen 
Vic.  melted  margarine  (1  V2  sticks) 
1  tsp.  salt 
/otsp.  pepper 


tec.  onions,  chopped 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  pt.  sour  cream 

2  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
2  c.  crushed  corn  flakes 


Thaw  potatoes  in  a  large  bowl.  Combine  Vz  melted  margarine 
with  potatoes.  Add  seasoning  and  all  ingredients  except  corn  flakes 
,and  Vz  of  melted  margarine.  Pour  into  a  9  x  13-inch  pan  or  glass  cas- 
serole dish.  Mix  melted  margarine  with  corn  flakes;  put  on  top  of  cas- 
serole. Bake  45  minutes  at  350°.  Delicious! 


Delia  Matthews 


OVERNIGHT  SALAD 


I  head  lettuce 
hin  sliced  celery 
hin  sliced  carrots 
hin  sliced  onions 


1  pkg.  frozen  green  peas,  rinsed 
1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
1  Vfe  Tbsp.  sugar 
1  c.  mayonnaise 


Layer  ingredients.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Before  serving, 
sprinkle  with  6  slices  crisp  bacon,  crumbled,  and  grated  cheese.  Toss 
ightly  and  serve. 

Brenda  Reich 

! 

i  MARINATED  PEA  SALAD 


/4C.  vinegar 
4C.  sugar 

Tbsp.  water 
i  tsp.  salt 
4  to  V2  tsp.  pepper 

c.  finely  chopped  celery 


1  c.  finely  chopped  onion 

1  (17  oz.j  can  small  English  peas, 

drained 
1  (12  oz.)  can  Shoe  Peg  corn, 

drained 


Combine  vinegar,  sugar,  water,  salt  and  pepper  in  small  sauce- 
tan;  bring  mixture  to  a  boil  and  boil  one  minute.  Let  cool  completely. 


34389 


39 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SiPE   DISHES 

Combine  remaining  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  toss  lightly.  Pour  ma 
inade  over  vegetable  mixture.  Stir  gently.  Cover  salad  and  refrigei 
ate  overnight.  Yields  10  to  12  servings. 

Rosemary  Worlds 

lit 


'••,: 


KRAUT  SALAD 

1 6  oz.  can  shredded  kraut,  drained  1  medium  jar  pimento 

1  c.  chopped  celery  1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  chopped  green  pepper  Vz  c.  white  vinegar 

Yz  c.  chopped  onion  Vz  c.  salad  oil 

Combine  kraut,  celery,  pepper,  onion  and  pimento.  Mix  sugar 
vinegar  and  oil  and  pour  over  vegetables.  Keep  in  a  tightly  sealed  jai  \\ 
and  refrigerate.  Keeps  for  weeks. 

i 


l| 


Eleanor  K.  Lewi 


r« 


EGG  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  3  Tbsp.  vinegar 

Va  c.  chives,  chopped  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

%  c.  small  curd  cottage  cheese  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Vz  c.  mayonnaise 

Combine  eggs,  chives  and  cottage  cheese.  Mix  salad  dressing, 
vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Combine  the  two  mixtures.  Serve 
on  lettuce  as  a  salad  or  use  as  a  sandwich  spread.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Ruth  Wyatt 

FOUR  LAYER  SALAD  * 

lettuce  V2  c.  sour  cream 

1  can  LeSueur  baby  green  peas,  1  c.  mayonnaise 

drained  Parmesan  cheese 
1  small  onion,  chopped 

First  Layer:  Bed  of  lettuce. 
Second  Layer:  Peas  and  onion. 

Third  Layer:  Mix  Vi  cup  sour  cream  with  1  cup  mayonnaise. 
Fourth  Layer:  Grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Refrigerate  after  mix- 
ing. Serves  6  to  8. 

Pamela  Robbins 


-40 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

3  LAYERED  SALAD 

l  types  lettuce*  1  pkg.  frozen  peas 

■2  doz.  boiled  eggs  1  red  onion 

jash  of  salt  and  pepper  3  c.  mayonnaise 

k  lb.  bacon,  crumbled  little  bit  of  Hidden  Valley  dressing 

'other  lettuce  8  oz.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

Put  ingredients  in  long  bakingdish  in  order  listed,  one  shredded 
in  top  of  the  other.  Let  sit  24  hours  before  serving. 

Debbie  Crater 

SPINACH  FETTUCINI 

pkg.  chopped  spinach  1  c.  Ricotta  cheese 

Nt  bunches  scallions  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste 

tutter  fresh  or  frozen  fettucini  noodles 
y  %c.  cream 

Saute  1  package  chopped  spinach,  thawed  and  drained,  with  2 
mnches  of  scallions  in  a  small  amount  of  butter  until  the  onions  are 
ransparent.  Add  1  3/4  cups  cream.  Mix  in  1  cup  Ricotta  cheese.  Add 
<alt,  pepper  (freshly  ground)  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Serve  over  fresh  or 
rozen  fettucini  noodles.  (This  is  my  original  recipe.  It  was  awarded 
he  blue  ribbon  at  the  last  dinner  party  we  had.) 

Pam  Souther/and 

|  SPINACH  AND  RICE  CASSEROLE 

onion  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

,:  stick  butter  1  pkg.  frozen  spinach 

(8  oz.)  Cheez  Whiz  (jar)  1  c.  Minute  rice 

Chop  onion  and  saute  in  stick  of  butter.  Mix  in  the  Cheez  Whiz 
nd  mushroom  soup.  Cook  the  frozen  spinach  and  drain  well.  Stir 
ihe  spinach  into  the  mixture.  Add  the  Minute  rice.  Cook  at  350°  for 
0  minutes. 

Ana  Beery 

SPINACH  SQUARES 

!  stick  margarine,  softened  Vz  lb.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

eggs,  beaten  Vz  lb.  grated  Swiss  cheese 

c.  flour  2  pkg.  (10  oz.  each)  frozen,  chopped 

c.  milk  spinach,  thawed  and  squeezed 

tsp.  salt  dry 

tsp.  baking  powder  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


4389  -  41  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Stir  margarine  until  creamy  and  gradually  blend  in  eggs,  flour, 
milk,  salt,  baking  powder,  Cheddar  cheese,  Swiss  cheese  and  spinach. 
Turn  into  greased  9  x  13-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  35 
minutes  or  until  done.  Remove  from  oven.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan 
cheese  and  let  cool  5  minutes  before  cutting  into  squares. 

Patti  Petree 

SPINACH  AND  RICE 

1  medium  size  onion,  chopped  1  tsp.  sugar 

8  oz.  tomato  sauce  2  Tbsp.  margarine 

8  oz.  water  1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen,  cut  spinach 

3  Tbsp.  long  grain  uncooked  rice  pepper  to  taste 

Vz  tsp.  salt 

Saute  finely  chopped  onion  in  2  tablespoons  margarine.  Add  8 
ounces  of  tomato  sauce.  Rinse  sauce  can  with  8  ounces  of  water  and 
add  to  mixture.  Add  3  tablespoons  rice.  Cover  and  simmer  10  min- 
utes. Season  mixture  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Add  frozen  spin- 
ach and  simmer  until  spinach  is  done,  about  10  minutes.  Good  hot  or 
serve  cold  as  a  salad.  Now  tell  me  you  don't  like  spinach!! 

Betty  Lea  Joyce 

SPINACH-RICE  CASSEROLE 

2  pkg.  chopped  spinach  Yz  c.  chopped  celery 

1  c.  uncooked  rice  Yz  stick  butter  or  margarine 

1  jar  Cheez  Whiz  dash  of  garlic  salt 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

Cook  spinach  by  package  directions;  cook  rice.  Simmer  celery 
in  butter  and  garlic  salt.  Add  all  ingredients  together.  Put  in  a  9-inch 
square  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 

SPINACH  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

1  lb.  fresh  spinach  6  strips  bacon 

3  hard-boiled  eggs  1  large  red  onion 

Dressing: 
1  egg  yolk  Va  tsp.  dry  mustard 


i 


r 


ii 


2  Tbsp.  sugar  Vitsp 

t  VzXso.  oaDrika  %  c.  salad  oil 


t  ft  tsp.  paprika 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire 

V2  tsn.  salt 


Vz  tsp.  salt 


pepper 
ilad  oil 
Va  c.  wine  vinegar 


-42 


FRUIT   &  VEGETABLE   SiDE   DISHES 

Wash  and  dry  spinach.   Chop  eggs.   Cook  bacon  and  crumble. 
(F)lice  onion  thin.  Mix  egg  yolk  and  seasonings  until  smooth.  Add  oil 
slowly,  continuously  stirring.    Add  vinegar.  Better  to  refrigerate 
Iressing  before  serving  to  thicken  somewhat. 

Beth  Leonard 


SPINACH  SALAD  WITH  HOT  BACON  DRESSING 

i  strips  bacon,  chopped  Va  c.  water 

medium  onion,  chopped  2  lb.  fresh  spinach  leaves,  rinsed, 

i.  c.  olive  oil  dried  and  torn  into  bite-size 

'2tsp.  tarragon  vinegar  pieces 

fe  tsp.  dry  mustard  V2  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced 

■alt  and  pepper  to  taste  3  plum  tomatoes,  cut  in  wedges 
!  tsp.  cornstarch 

Place  bacon  in  1  quart  microwavesafe  casserole.  Cover  and 
nicrowave  on  High  for  2  minutes.  Stir.  Microwave  2  minutes  more 
br  until  bacon  is  no  longer  pink.  Add  onion  and  olive  oil.  Cover  and 
microwave  3  to  4  minutes  or  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Add  remaining 
ngredients,  except  vegetables.  Cover  and  microwave  3  to  4  minutes 
fir  until  dressing  slightly  thickens,  stirring  after  2  minutes.  Let  stand 
i  minutes.  Arrange  spinach,  mushrooms  and  tomato  wedges  in  salad 
>owl.  Pour  cooked  dressing  over;  toss.  Serve  immediately.  Serves 
>to8. 

Joann  Cheek 

! 

\  SQUASH 

1 

Coarsely  grate  equal  amounts  of  yellow  and  zucchini  squash. 
*\dd  small  amount  of  salt.  Let  stand  for  awhile;  squeeze  out  all  the 
vater.    Saute  in  butter  or  margarine  until  tender.    Great  as  a 
ide  dish. 

Evelyn  Reed 


STUFFED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

1  yellow  summer  squash  1  egg,  beaten 

small  onion,  chopped  1  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 

!  Tbsp.  margarine  parsley  flakes  (optional) 

i.  c.  bread  crumbs  grated  raw  carrot  (optional) 


54389  -  43  - 


:' 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Cut  squash  in  half  lengthwise;  scoop  out  centers  and  chop 
Steam  squash  shells  for  10  to  15  minutes;  drain.  In  a  small  skillet; 
melt  margarine  and  saute  onions,  chopped  squash  and  bread  crumbs 
Add  grated  carrot.  Remove  from  heat  and  blend  in  cheese  and  egg 
Add  parsley.  Spoon  bread  crumb  mixture  into  squash  shells.  Bakeirif 
oven  at  350°  for  15  minutes  or  until  heated  and  browned  slightly,  | 
Serves  4  to  6.  I  $ 

Kay  Milled 


SQUASH  AND  SOUR  CREAM  CASSEROLE 


1  Vz  lb.  yellow  summer  squash, 
cooked  until  tender  and  drained 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

2  raw  carrots,  grated 


1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

(undiluted) 
V2  stick  butter  or  margarine 
1  carton  sour  cream 


Mix  all  ingredients.  Pour  into  buttered  casserole.  Sprinkle  top 
with  buttered  herb  dressing  crumbs.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  to  40  min- 
utes. For  color,  add  1  small  can  of  green  peas  which  has  been  drained 
Instead  of  one  large  casserole,  may  be  divided  and  one  frozen  for  later, 
baking. 

Rosemary  Worley 


! 


: 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 


2  V4  lb.  sliced  squash 

1  small  onion 

2  eggs,  beaten 
1  c.  milk 

1/4  c.  sugar 


3  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

3  Tbsp.  flour 

1  tsp.  sait 

Vz  c.  grated  cheese 


Cook  squash,  onion,  salt  and  sugar  in  a  small  amount  of  water 
until  tender.  Drain  and  add  other  ingredients.  Put  in  a  1  V2  quart 
baking  dish  and  bake  30  minutes  at  350°.  Remove  and  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs.  Return  to  oven  and  brown. 

Mavareen  Foil 


SAUSAGE-STUFFED  SQUASH 


6  medium-sized  yellow  squash 
Vz  lb.  bulk  pork  sausage 
V*  c.  finely  chopped  onion 


V2  c.  herb-seasoned  stuffing 

V*  tsp.  salt 

2  V2  Tbsp.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


-44 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

Wash  squash  thoroughly;  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover 

to  10  minutes  or  until  tender,  but  still  firm.  Drain  and  cool  slightly. 

t'rim  off  stems.  Cut  squash  in  half  lengthwise;  remove  and  reserve 

ulp,  leaving  a  firm  shell.  Cook  sausage  and  onion  in  a  skillet  over 

Medium  heat  until  the  sausage  is  browned,  stirring  to  crumble.  Re- 

iove  from  heat  and  drain  off  pan  drippings.   Stir  in  squash  pulp, 

erb-seasoned  stuffing  and  salt.   Place  squash  shells  in  a  13  x  9  x 

i  -inch  baking  dish.  Spoon  sausage  mixture  into  shells;  sprinkle  with 

'armesan  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Yields  6  servings. 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 

OLD  FASHION  SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

lb.  summer  squash,  diced  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

medium  onion,  sliced  2  eggs 

2  c.  butter  or  margarine  1  c.  bread  crumbs,  divided 

j  tsp.  salt 

Boil  squash  and  onion  slices  until  tender  (approximately  15 

ainutes).  Drain  and  mash  with  a  fork.  Combine  squash  and  onions 

nth  remaining  ingredients,  including  Vi  cup  of  bread  crumbs.  Put 

.'nixture  in  a  1  V2  quart  casserole  dish  and  sprinkle  with  the  remain- 

ng  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  30  minutes  at  300°.  Yields  6  servings. 

Hazel  Reich 


SPAGHETTI  SQUASH 

Cut  squash  in  half  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  soft  pulp  and  seeds; 

iiscard.   Place  halves  in  a  pan,  face  up.   Put  2  tablespoons  water  in 

ach  half  and  cover  with  foil.   Bake  at  350°  for  45  to  60  minutes  or 

until  flesh  pulls  away  from  shells  in  strips.  Scrape  soft  squash  from 

jhell.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Ruby  Petree 


BAKED  SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

t  c.  cooked  yellow  summer  squash  Vz  c.  milk 

egg  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  stick  margarine  V2  tsp.  pepper 

small  onion  1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
c.  crushed  crackers 


54389  -  45  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Combine  cooked  squash,  margarine,  onion,  crackers  and  milk 
with  beaten  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  Vi  cup  of  cheese.  Pour  into  buttered 
casserole  and  top  with  remaining  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  40 
minutes. 

Frances  Pleasants 
TOMATO  ASPIC 


2  envelopes  unflavored  gelatin 
1  c.  cold  tomato  juice 

3  c.  tomato  juice 

V3  c.  chopped  onion 
Vac.  chopped  celery 


2  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt 

4  whole  cloves 

2  bay  leaves 

3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 


FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES 


Vz  c.  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs 
Vi  tsp.  sugar 
VUsp.  salt 
Vfetsp.  pepper 


Via  c.  vegetable  oil 
1  lb.  (3  medium)  slightly  ripe  or 
green  tomatoes 


In  a  2-cup  glass  measure,  soften  the  gelatin  in  1  cup  cold  tomato 
juice.  In  a  saucepan,  combine  2  cups  tomato  juice,  onion,  celery, 
brown  sugar,  salt,  cloves  and  bay  leaves.  Simmer  uncovered  5  min- 
utes. Pour  the  hot  tomato  mixture  into  a  sieve  set  over  a  bowl  and 
strain  mixture.  Discard  the  vegetables.  Add  the  softened  gelatin  to 
the  hot  liquid.  Stir  well  to  dissolve  the  gelatin.  Stir  in  the  remaining 
1  cup  of  tomato  juice  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  a  5-cup  mold  and 
chill  until  firm.  Unmold  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  goes  well 
with  chicken  salad  or  a  luncheon  dish. 


Evelyn  Reed 


Stir  together  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  In  a  large 
skillet,  heat  oil  over  medium  heat.  Slice  tomatoes  V2-inch  thick.  Coat 
tomato  slices  with  crumb  mixture,  patting  off  excess.  Fry  a  few  slices 
at  a  time,  about  3  to  4  minutes,  turning  once  until  lightly  browned. 
Drain  on  paper  towels.  Makes  about  4  servings. 

Ruby  Petree 


SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 


1  Vi.  c.  stale  bread,  broken  into 

pieces 
Vi  c.  melted  butter 


1  can  (16  oz.)  tomatoes 

1  tsp.  salt 

6  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 


-46 


FRUIT   &   VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

Place  bread  in  a  shallow  casserole  dish.  Pour  butter  over  bread 
:.nd  mix  until  coated.  Toast  in  350°  oven.  To  tomatoes,  add  salt  and 
iirown  sugar.   Pour  tomatoes  in  casserole  dish  and  top  with  toasted 
tread.  Bake  at  425°  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Pat  Whitt 


MIXED  VEGETABLE  SALAD 


i c.  broccoli  florets  (1  lb.  Va  c.  chopped  red  onion 

untrimmed)  V*  c.  vegetable  oil 

2  lb.  mushrooms,  sliced  (3  c.)  2  Tbsp.  red  wine  vinegar 

medium  green  peppers,  cut  into  1  garlic  clove,  minced 

strips  (1  c.)  %tsp.  dried  basil 

medium  red  peppers,  cut  into  V^tsp.  dried  thyme 

strips  (1  c.)  Ve  tsp.  ground  black  pepper 


In  a  medium-sized  saucepan,  bring  broccoli  to  a  boil  in  an  inch 
|f  water.  Reduce  heat,  cover  and  simmer  for  3  minutes  or  until  ten- 
der-crisp; drain.   Rinse  in  cold  running  water.  Transfer  to  a  large 
towl.   Add  mushrooms,  green  and  red  pepper  strips  and  chopped 
nion9  and  toss.   In  a  small  bowl,  combine  oil,  vinegar,  garlic,  basil, 
,  hyme  and  pepper;  pour  over  vegetables.    Toss  well.    Cover  and 
efrigerate  about  2  hours.  Makes  6  servings  of  about  1  cup  each. 

Janice  Sykes 


BELGIUM  VEGETABLE  SALAD 


i 


can  French  green  beans,  drained  1  bell  pepper,  chopped 

\  can  small  English  peas,  drained  Yz  c.  sugar 

;  can  Shoe  Peg  corn,  drained  V*2  c.  oil 

small  onion,  chopped  Vfec.  vinegar 

hopped  pimento  Y2  tsp.  salt 

•  c.  chopped  celery  Yz  tsp.  pepper 

In  a  saucepan,  put  Vi  cup  sugar,  V2  cup  oil,  V2  cup  vinegar,  Vz  tea- 
poon  salt  and  V2  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  until  sugar  dissolves.  Cool 
nd  pour  over  vegetables. 

Delia  Matthews 


54389  -  47 


FRUiT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

STAUAN-STYIE  tySAFUMATED  VEGETABLES 


8  oz.  bottle  Seven  Seas  Viva  Italian 

dressing 
10  oz.  pkg.  frozen,  sliced  carrots, 

thawed  and  drained 
10  oz.  pkg.  frozen  cauliflower, 

thawed  and  drained 


9  oz.  pkg.  frozen  cut  green  beans, 

thawed  and  drained 
3  V*  oz  can  pitted  ripe  olives, 

drained 
2  oz.  jar  chopped  pimento,  drained 
1/4C.  (1  oz.)  Kraft  100%  grated 

Parmesan  cheese 


Pour  dressing  over  combined  vegetables,  olives  and  pimentos 
Cover;  marinate  in  refrigerator  several  hours  or  overnight.  Drain. 
Combine  vegetable  mixture  and  cheese;  mix  lightly.  Sprinkle  with 
additional  cheese  just  before  serving,  if  desired.  Can  substitute  fresh 
cauliflower  and  carrots.  Yields  6  servings. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 


VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 


1  (16  oz.)  can  French-style  green 

beans 
1  (16  oz.)  can  whole  kerne!  corn 
1  c.  sour  cream 
1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
2Tbsp.  milk 


Vfe  c.  chopped  onion 

1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

1  c.  sliced  water  chestnuts 

1  stack  Riiz  crackers,  crushed 

1  stick  margarine 

sliced  almonds 


Drain  beans  and  corn.  In  another  bowl  mix  celery  soup,  sour 
cream,  milk,  onion,  water  chestnuts  and  cheese.  Add  to  beans  and 
corn  and  mix  well.  Put  in  baking  dish.  Melt  margarine  and  drizzle 
over  crackers  (crushed).  Mix  well.  Sprinkle  over  top  of  mixture  in 
dish.  Sprinkle  almonds  on  top.  Bake  covered  for  30  minutes  at  350°. 
Uncover  and  bake  15  minutes  more. 

Olive  Ring-Klapp 


CHEESY  VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 


2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  or  fresh 
vegetables  (cauliflower,  broccoli, 
carrots  and  zucchini) 

1  c.  chopped  celery 

Vb  c.  chopped  onion 

1  c.  mayonnaise 


Yz  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

V4  tsp.  salt 

Vb  tsp.  pepper 

2  c.  crushed  Cheese  Nips 

Vic.  melted  butter 

Vz  c.  shredded  cheese 


-48 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

Cook  vegetables  and  drain.  Combine  vegetables,  celery,  onion, 
nayonnaise,  V2  cup  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Spoon  into  greased  2 
juart  casserole.  Combine  remaining  ingredients  and  sprinkle  over 
op.  Bake  at  300°  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Yields  8  servings. 

Debbie  Crater 


ZUCCHINI  QUICHE 


l  c.  grated  zucchini 
%  c.  Parmesan  cheese 
!  c.  grated  Swiss  cheese 
I  eggs 
^  c.  oil 


Vfe  c.  chopped  onion 
1  c.  Bisquick 
Y2  tsp.  basil 
V2  tsp.  marjoram 


Beat  eggs  well.  Mix  with  oil.  Combine  remaining  ingredients 
ind  add  to  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  well  greased  pan  (10-inch  pie  or 
quiche  pan).  Bake  at  350°  for  30  to  35  minutes. 

Karin  Binkley 


APPLE  AMBROSIA 


1  small  can  frozen  orange  juice 

(undiluted) 
Vz  tsp.  coconut  flavoring 
1  envelope  Knox  plain  gelatine 


l  apples,  peeled  and  grated 

I  bananas,  sliced 

I  can  pineapple  tidbits  (15  oz.  in 

own  juice) 
I  (12  oz.)  can  diet  7-Up 

[         Mix  all  except  gelatine.   Sprinkle  gelatine  in  last.  Let  stand  4 
aours  to  develop  flavor  before  serving.  Since  this  container  no  sugar, 
t  is  good  ambrosia  for  diabetics. 


Rosemary  Woriey 


DREAMY  APRICOT  SALAD 


2  (3  oz.)  pkg.  apricot  flavored 

gelatin 
'■h  c.  sugar 
73  c.  water 
2  (4  %  oz.)  jars  apricot  baby  food 


20  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple, 

und  rained 
14  oz.  can  sweetened  condensed 

milk,  chilled 
8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  softened 
1  V2  c.  chopped  nuts 


Combine  gelatin,  sugar  and  water  in  a  small  saucepan.  Bring  to 
a  boil,  stirring  to  dissolve  sugar  and  gelatin.  Remove  from  heat  and 


154389 


49 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

stir  in  fruit.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Combine  condensed  milk  and  cream 
cheese,  beating  until  smooth.  Stir  in  gelatin  mixture,  then  nuts. 
Pour  into  a  9-cup  mold  and  chill  until  firm.  Yields  about  20  servings. 

Mavareen  Foil 


BLUEBERRY  SALAD 

2  small  boxes  grape  jello  8  oz.  cream  cheese 

2  c.  boiling  water  Vfe  c.  sugar 

1  can  blueberry  pie  filling  8  oz.  sour  cream 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple,  1  tsp.  vanilla 

drained  Vi  c.  nuts 
Vi  c.  nuts 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.  Add  pie  filling,  pineapple  and 
nuts;  cool. 

Topping:  Beat  cream  cheese,  sugar  and  sour  cream.  Add  vanilla 
and  nuts.  Pour  over  cooled  jello. 

Nancy  Reece 


FESTIVE  CHERRIES  'N  CREAM  SALAD 

1  (1  lb.)  can  red,  water-packed  sour  15  regular  size  marshmallows,  cut  in 

cherries  quarters 

1  (1  lb.)  can  pineapple  tidbits  Vn  c.  confectioners  sugar 

1  c.  shredded  coconut  V2  pt.  sour  cream 

pinch  of  salt 

Drain  cherries  and  pineapple  thoroughly.  Combine  fruit  with 
coconut,  marshmallows,  sugar  and  salt.  Fold  sour  cream  carefully 
into  cherry  mixture,  turn  into  a  bowl.  Cover  and  refrigerate 
overnight. 

This  recipe  is  a  favorite  of  Bishop  Jimmy  Weingarths  and  was 
given  to  me  by  his  lovely  wife,  Dorothy. 

Betty  Lea  Joyce 


ROYAL  ANNE  CHERRY  CONGEALED  SALAD 

1  large  can  Royal  Anne  cherries  1  small  can  pimento 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple  V2  pt.  whipping  cream 

2  small  pkg.  lemon  jello  1  c.  chopped  nuts 
2  small  pkg.  cream  cheese 


50- 


FRUIT   &  VEGETABLE   SIDE   DISHES 

Drain  pineapple  and  cherries.  Bring  to  a  boil  Vi  cup  cherry  juice 
and  1  cup  pineapple  juice.  Pour  overjello.  Blend  cream  cheese  and 
pimento  and  blend  into  jello.  Add  other  ingredients  to  jello.  Fold  in 
whipped  cream.  Pour  into  pan  approximately  8  x  12-inches.  Serves 
12  to  14. 

Kathleen  Robbins 

REFRIGERATOR  CRANBERRY  AND  APPLE  SALAD 


3  oz.  pkg.  cherry  or  strawberry 

Jell-0  mix 
fttsp.  salt 
1  Vac.  boiling  water 


1  can  jellied  cranberry  sauce, 
mashed  with  a  fork 

2  c.  finely  chopped  apples 
tec.  chopped  pecans 


Dissolve  Jell-0  and  salt  in  boiling  water.  Chill  until  thick. 
Whip  and  add  cranberry  sauce.  Fold  in  nuts  and  apples.  Pour  into  a 
'mold  that  has  been  coated  with  salad  oil.  Chill  until  firm. 

Brenda  Lewis 


BAKED  APPLE  CRANBERRY  CASSEROLE 


3  c.  unpeeled  apples 
2  c.  raw  cranberries 
%c.  sugar 
1  stick  margarine 


1  c.  uncooked  oatmeal 
tec.  flour 
te  c.  brown  sugar 
tec. pecans 


Line  casserole  with  apples  and  cranberries.  Sprinkle  with 
white  sugar.  Mix  melted  margarine,  oatmeal,  flour,  brown  sugar  and 
pecans  together  and  spread  on  top  of  apples  and  cranberries.  Bake  at 
350°  for  1  hour. 


Judy  Thrift 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 


1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  boiling  water 

1  box  cherry  jello 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 


diced  sections  of  2  oranges 
1  te  c.  ground  fresh  cranberries 
te  c.  chopped  English  walnuts  or 
pecans 


Drain  pineapple;  reserve  juice.  Add  enough  water  to  juice  to 
make  1  cup.  Bring  to  aboil.  Mix  with  jello.  Put  in  refrigerator  to  set. 
Mix  drained  pineapple  with  all  other  ingredients.   Just  before  jello 


154389 


-51- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

has  congealed,  add  all  other  ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into 
mold  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled. 

Pat  Whitt  i ) 


y 


HOT  FRUIT 


Parti 


1  can  pears  (29  oz.) 

1  can  pineapple  chunks  (15  oz.) 

1  can  peaches  (29  oz.) 

1  small  can  maraschino  cherries 

2  bananas,  sliced 

Part  2: 


black  #1  cherries,  purple  plums  (29 

oz.)  or  1  c.  blueberries 
3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 
1  c.  chopped  nuts 


1  c.  applesauce 

Vz  c.  melted  margarine 


Vz  c.  brown  sugar 


Drain  fruit.  Heat  part  2  until  boiling.  Put  fruit  in  low  casse- 
role. Pour  part  2  over  fruit.  Sprinkle  with  brown  sugar  and  nuts. 
Bake  1  hour  at  300°.  Serves  15. 


Pam  Southerland 


BAKED  FRUIT 


1  can  sliced  peaches 
1  can  apple  rings 
1  can  apricots 

Sauce: 

1  stick  margarine 
1  c.  fruit  juice 


1  can  pears 

1  can  pineapple  chunks  or  slices 


Vz  c.  brown  sugar 
2  Tbsp,  flour 


Drain  fruit  and  place  in  casserole  dish.  Make  sauce.  Cook  sauce 
until  smooth.  Pour  over  fruit.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Bake  until  hot 
and  bubbly  at  350°.  Serves  10. 

Gail  Skidmore 


GLAZED  FRUIT  SALAD 


2  (20  oz.)  cans  pineapple  chunks, 

undrained 
11  oz.  can  mandarin  orange 

sections,  drained 
1  c.  maraschino  cherries,  drained 


3  large  bananas,  sliced 
1  c.  chopped  pecans 
1  (3  %oz.)  pkg.  vanilla  instant 
pudding  mix 


-52- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

Drain  pineapple,  reserving  1  cup  juice.  Combine  pineapple, 
emaining  fruit  and  pecans  in  a  large  bowl;  toss  gently.  Combine 
fudding  and  reserved  pineapple  juice  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  on  high 
peed  of  electric  mixer  one  minute.  Pour  pudding  over  fruit.  Toss 
ently. 

Hazel  Reich 


FROSTY  FRUIT  SALAD 

c.  sugar  17  oz.  can  fruit  cocktail,  drained 

\  tsp.  salt  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

qt.  (4  c.)  buttermilk  any  fresh  or  canned  fruit* 
tsp.  vanilla 

| 

*Strawberries,  kiwi,  oranges  or  blueberries. 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  buttermilk  and  vanilla;  mix  well.  Gently 
tir  in  drained  fruit.  Pour  into  9  x  13-inch  pan.  Freeze  until  firm, 
lerve  frozen.  Makes  15  servings. 

Pam  Southerland 


LIME  SALAD 

pkg.  lime-flavored  gelatin  1  c.  creamed  cottage  cheese 

4  c.  boiling  water  Vz  c.  chopped  pecans 

c.  evaporated  milk  Vz  c.  finely  chopped  celery 

small  can  crushed  pineapple  Vz  c.  mayonnaise 
Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Empty  gelatin  into  large  size  mixing  bowl.  Add  water  and  stir 
■;ntil  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Cool  slightly,  then  stir  in  milk  (appearance 
/ill  look  curdled,  but  does  not  affect  finished  salad).  Chill  until  par- 
ially  set,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  smooth.  Fold  in  remaining 
ngredients,  mixing  well.  Pour  into  a  9x9x  2-inch  square  pan.  Chill 
intil  set. 

Gail  Skidmore 


MANDARIN  SALAD 

4C.  sliced  almonds  (toast  almonds  Va bunch  romaine 

until  crisp)  2  medium  stalks  celery  (about  1  c.) 

4  head  lettuce,  torn  into  bite  size  2  green  onions  with  tops,  thinly 

pieces  sliced  (about  2  Tbsp.) 


54389  -  53  - 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

Combine  all  salad  ingredients. 
Sweet  and  Sour  Dressing: 

V*  c.  vegetable  oil  1  Tbsp.  parsley  and  Yz  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  or  1  envelope  Equal  dash  of  pepper  and  dash  of  red 

2  Tbsp.  vinegar  pepper  sauce 

Combine  all  dressing  ingredients.  Pour  over  salad  wher 
serving. 

Janice  Syke 

ORANGES  AND  SOUR  CREAM  SALAD 

6  oz.  orange  jello  1  pkg.  miniature  marshmallows 

3  c.  boiling  water  1  large  carton  sour  cream 
3  Tbsp.  sugar  8  oz.  American  cheese,  grated 
1  can  mandarin  oranges,  drained  2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 
1  can  crushed  pineapple  and  juice 

Bring  jello  and  boiling  water  to  a  boil.  Add  oranges  and  pineap- 
ple. Bring  to  a  boil  again.  Pour  in  dish  and  add  marshmallows  while 
still  hot.  Let  jello  setup.  Mix  sour  cream  and  mayonnaise  and  spread 
on  top  of  the  jello.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top. 

Anna  Fouts 

ORANGE  SALAD 

1  (12  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese  1  small  can  mandarin  oranges 

1  box  orange  Jell-0  1  (4  Vfe  oz.)  carton  nondairy  whipped 

1  (15  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple  topping 

Drain  fruit.  Combine  cottage  cheese  with  dry  gelatin.  Fold  fruit 
into  gelatin  mixture.  Fold  in  topping  and  refrigerate. 

Bertie  Mae  Fusseli 

RASPBERRY  SALAD 

6  oz.  box  raspberry  Jell-0  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple, 

2  c.  boiling  water  drained 
1  can  blueberry  pie  filling 

Topping: 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  c.  sour  cream 

V4  c.  1 0x  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 


54- 


FRUIT   &   VEGETABLE   SIDE   DISHES 

Add  boiling  water  to  Jell-0  in  large  bowl.  Stir  in  well.  Add  pie 
filling  and  pineapple.  Stir  well.  Refrigerate  until  set. 

For  Topping:  Beat  together  all  ingredients  until  smooth.  Frost 
the  set  Jell-0  and  place  in  refrigerator  until  serving  time.  Delicious 
with  anything. 

Gail  Skid  more 
STRAWBERRY  SALAD 


6  oz.  pkg.  strawberry  Jell-0  mix 

2  c.  boiling  water 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  strawberries 

(2Vzc.) 


15  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 
2  to  3  medium  bananas,  mashed 
12  oz.  sour  cream 


Dissolve  Jell-0  mix  in  the  boiling  water.  Add  partially  thawed 
strawberries,  pineapple  and  bananas.  Put  half  of  this  mixture  in  a  9 
x  13-inch  dish  and  put  in  the  refrigerator  until  slightly  firm.  Spread 
the  sour  cream  on  top  of  the  Jell-0  mixture.  Then  pour  the  remain- 
ing Jell-0  mixture,  which  is  now  room  temperature,  over  the  sour 

cream.  Refrigerate  until  all  is  firmly  set. 
i 

Bertha  Holder 

i 

PINEAPPLE  CHEESE  CASSEROLE 


2  (1  lb.)  cans  pineapple  tidbits, 

drained 
1  c.  sugar 
6Tbsp.  flour 


2  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 
1  c.  crushed  crackers 
4Tbsp.  melted  butter 


Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Mix  sugar  and  flour;  add  drained  pineap- 
ple and  stir  to  coat.  Stir  in  cheese.  Pour  into  greased  baking  dish. 
Top  with  crackers  and  drizzle  with  butter.  Bake  45  minutes. 

Betty  Ashby 


PINEAPPLE  CASSEROLE 


3  eggs 

I6c.  sugar 

I  stick  margarine 


1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

Vitsp.  salt 

fresh  bread  slices 


Beat  eggs;  add  sugar,  pineapple  and  juice  and  salt.  Put  in  shal- 
ow  casserole  dish.   Pinch  off  enough  pieces  of  fresh  bread  to  cover 


.54389 


55 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 

top.  Slice  margarine  to  dot  top  of  bread.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 
Serve  while  hot.  Excellent  accompaniment  to  ham.  (If  too  much 
juice,  add  2  teaspoons  flour  before  bread  covering  is  added.) 

Evelyn  Doty 

WATERGATE  SALAD 


1  box  pistachio  pudding  mix  (regular 

size) 
1  (9  oz.)  Cool  Whip 
%c.  nuts,  chopped 


1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple, 

undrained 
1  c.  miniature  marshmallows 

(optional) 


Mix  pistachio  pudding  dry  with  Cool  Whip,  crushed  pineapple 
and  nuts.  (Add  marshmallows,  if  desired.)  Refrigerate  several  hours. 

Valia  Kane 
CREAM  CHEESE  AMBROSIA 


8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple, 
drained 

2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
Vz  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  c.  Angel  Flake  coconut 


2  small  jars  red  cherries,  drained 

1  small  jar  green  cherries,  drained 

2  c.  mandarin  oranges,  drained 
Vz  c.  sugar 

8  oz.  Cool  Whip 


Soften  cream  cheese  and  mix  well  with  sugar.  Add  crushed 
pineapple,  then  vanilla.  Add  other  ingredients  except  Cool  Whip. 
Add  it  last.  Chill  for  2  hours  before  serving. 

Frances  Binkley 


7-UP  SALAD 


1  pkg.  lemon  or  lime  jello 
1  c.  boiling  water 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 
1  small  can  drained  crushed 
pineapple 


Vac.  sugar 

Vz  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (7  oz.)  bottle  7-Up 

6  red  cherries,  cut  in  half 


Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.  Add  cream  cheese  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Add  pineapple,  sugar,  nuts,  vanilla,  7-Up  and  cherries. 
Pour  into  9  x  9-inch  Pyrex  dish  and  congeal. 

Ruby  Petree 


-56 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE   DISHES 


PRETZEL  SALAD 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  c.  sugar 

2  c.  Cool  Whip 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  strawberry  jello 


2  c.  boiling  water 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  strawberries 

or  %  c.  fresh  berries  with  V2  c. 

sugar  added 


Crust: 

2  c.  slightly  crushed  pretzels 
Vic.  margarine 


3Tbsp.  sugar 


Crust:  Melt  margarine;  add  sugar  and  pretzels.  Put  in  9  x  13- 
!inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  6  to  8  minutes.  Cool. 

Mix  cream  cheese,  sugar  and  Cool  Whip  in  mixer  until  light  and 
ifluffy.  Spread  on  top  of  cooled  crust.  Mix  jello  and  water;  add  straw- 
berries. Chill  until  syrupy.  Put  on  top  of  cream  cheese  mixture. 
Chill  salad  until  set. 

Liz  Whitney 


FRUIT  SALAD 


1  c.  pineapple  chunks 
1  c.  mandarin  oranges 
1  c.  maraschino  cherries 
1  c.  coconut 


Vz  bag  miniature  marshmallows 
8  oz.  sour  cream 
1  c.  chopped  pecans 


Drain  liquid  off  all  fruits.  Mix  and  let  set  2  to  3  hours.  Keep 
refrigerated. 

Lucille  S.  James 


FRUITED  CHEESE  SALAD 


3  c.  cottage  cheese 

1  qt.  Cool  Whip 

2  small  pkg.  orange/pineapple 
Jell-0  mix 


13  V2  oz.  can  pineapple  tidbits, 

drained 
11  oz.  mandarin  oranges,  drained 


Blend  cottage  cheese  and  Cool  Whip.    Stir  in  dry  Jell-0  mix. 
Fold  in  pineapple  and  oranges.  Press  into  a  mold  and  chill  overnight. 

Brenda  Lewis 


I54369 


-57- 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

CASHEW  SALAD  DRESSING 

Vz  c.  oil  2  tsp.  white  vinegar 

Vz  c.  cashews  1  Vz  tsp.  dried  dill  weed 

Vc  c.  water  1  tsp.  soy  sauce 

3  Tbsp.  honey  2  garlic  cloves 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  blender  until  very  smooth.  Refrigerate. 
Yields  1  Va  cups. 

Penny  Petree  Goode 


ROQUEFORT  DRESSING  LORRAINE 

3  Tbsp.  Roquefort  cheese  2  Tbsp.  wine  vinegar 

1  c.  sour  cream  1  clove  garlic,  minced 

Vz  c.  mayonnaise  salt  to  taste  (optional) 

Mash  cheese  in  bowl  with  fork.  Add  sour  cream  and  mix.  Add. 
rest  of  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Store  in  covered  container  in  the 
refrigerator. 

Margie  Lamb 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1c.  sour  cream  2  Tbsp.  sugar 

grated  peel  and  juice  of  1  lemon  1  tsp.  celery  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Chill  and  serve  with  salad  greens,  red 
cabbage,  cauliflower  and  cucumber  as  a  dressing  or  dip.  Best  ever 
with  fruit  salad. 

Evelyn  Reed 

BERRY'S  SALAD  DRESSING  | 

1  c.  sugar  V*  c.  sesame  seed 

Vz  tsp.  dry  mustard  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tsp.  paprika  1  c.  oil 

1  tsp.  minced  onion  Vz  c.  vinegar 

Vn  c.  poppy  seed 

Combine  all  dry  ingredients.  Add  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
stir.  Then  add  oil  and  vinegar  very  gradually,  whisking  constantly, 


58 


FRUIT   &   VEGETABLE   SIDE   DISHES 

until  both  are  well  incorporated.   Use  dressing  to  toss  with  spinach 

and  strawberries. 

I 

Patti  Petree 

CUKE  RELISH 

5  c.  chopped  cucumbers  1  M2  c.  vinegar 

A  c.  onions,  chopped  1  Vz  tsp.  celery  seed 

1  V2  Tbsp.  salt  1  Vfe  tsp.  mustard  seed 

2  c.  sugar 

I 

Blend  cucumbers  and  onions.  Sprinkle  salt  over  and  let  stand 

3  hours.   Drain.   Mix  with  sugar,  vinegar,  celery  seed  and  mustard 
seed.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Pack  in  jars  and  seal. 

Roberta  Franklin 

PEPPER   RELISH 

2  doz.  sweet  peppers  (red  and  2  Tbsp.  salt  (not  iodized) 

green)  3  c.  vinegar 

7  medium  onions  3  c.  sugar 
2  Tbsp.  mustard  seed 

Grind  peppers  and  onions;  save  juices.  Combine  peppers,  juice 
and  other  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Boil  30  minutes.  Pack  in  jars 
and  seal. 

Roberta  Franklin 

CRANBERRY  RELISH 

1  lb.  cranberries  1  (8  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 

2  apples  1  c.  chopped  pecans 
juice  of  2  oranges                                      2  %c.  sugar 

Using  a  food  processor  or  blender,  finely  chop  cranberries, 
apples  and  pecans.  Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  bowl,  cover  and 
refrigerate  overnight. 

Peggy  Carter 

REFRIGERATOR  PICKLES 

S  c.  very  thin  sliced  unpeeled  1  Tbsp.  salt 

cucumbers  1  Vac.  sugar 

1  c.  thin  sliced  onions  1  c.  vinegar 

1  c.  thin  sliced  green  pepper  Vz  tsp.  celery  seed 


154389  -  59 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  SIDE  DISHES 

-•  YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES  •- 
ReciPe  Page  Numbe 


-62 


MORAVIAN  MUSIC 


Moravians  have  lived  the  slogan  "be  all  you  can  be" 
from  the  very  beginning.  Moravians  always  believed  in 
educating  everyone  (even  women),  not  just  the  aristocracy. 
Moravian  ministers  considered  music,  art  and  cultural 
activities  gifts  of  God  -  why  else  were  humans  given 
various  talents  and  abilities  if  not  to  use  for  the  glory  of  God 
and  to  the  benefit  of  human  beings? 

The  Moravian  Church  is  the  only  denomination  with  a 
"Music  Foundation"  to  preserve  its  musical  heritage.  When 
Moravians  came  to  the  New  World,  in  addition  to  music 
composed  by  Moravians  (usually  ministers),  they  brought 
copied  manuscripts  of  music  by  the  masters  -  Bach, 
Haydn,  Mozart,  etc.  Many  times  when  existing  copies  of 
music  disappeared,  the  Moravians  would  have  their  own 
copies  available  so  that  these  were  not  lost  to  the  world. 
They  were  "pack  rats"  and  kept  excellent  records  of 
everything  that  happened  and  everything  that  was  printed. 


The  music  at  Fries  Memorial  Moravian  Church  was 
vastly  improved  with  the  addition  of  a  new  pipe  organ  with 
25  stops,  24  ranks,  4  pedal  extensions  and  3  manuals. 
The  miracle  of  this  organ  is  that  it  was  built  by  seven  retired 
men  in  the  Fries  congregation. 

The  organ  crew  gave  over  40,000  volunteer  hours  to 
build  the  organ  in  four  years  in  the  basement  of  the  church. 
The  current  value  of  the  organ  is  $200,000  with  only 
$13,000  having  been  spent  for  materials.  One  of  the  organ 
crew  had  been  collecting  pipes  and  parts  for  over 
twenty-five  years. 

Two  of  the  organ  crew  died  before  hearing  the  organ 
played  in  the  sanctuary  of  the  church,  but  on  the  Sunday  it 
was  dedicated,  most  of  the  congregation  felt  these  two 
workers  were  also  listening  and  enjoying  the  wonderful 
music  they  had  helped  to  create. 


1543-9 


MEATS  &  MAIN  DISHES 


PUDGY'S  ENCHILADAS 


1  Vz  Ib.  hamburger 

1  chopped  onion 

1  (10  oz.)  can  enchilada  sauce 

1  (8  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 

1 1b.  Longhorn  cheese,  grated 

1  can  pitted  ripe  olives 


1  doz.  canned  or  frozen  tortillas 

bacon  grease 

1  tsp.  salt 

Viitsp.  pepper 

1  clove  minced  garlic 

1  tsp.  cumin 


Brown  hamburger  and  onion  in  pan;  drain  grease.  Add  season- 
ings. In  saucepan,  mix  enchilada  sauce  and  tomato  sauce.  Heat  mix- 
ture. Put  a  few  tablespoons  into  hamburger  mixture.  Moisten  tortil- 
las in  heated  bacon  grease;  dip  in  enchilada  sauce  mixture.  Fill 
tortilla  with  hamburger  and  an  olive  or  two,  if  desired.  Roll  it  up  and 
place  in  a  baking  dish.  Continue  until  all  tortillas  are  filled.  Pour 
remainder  of  sauce  over  enchiladas.  Cover  with  grated  cheese.  Bake 
at  350°  until  cheese  melts. 

Margie  Lamb 


'QUICK"  ENCHILADA  CASSEROLE 


I  to  2  Ib.  ground  beef 
I  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
I  bag  Doritos  type  chips 


2  to  3  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
1  can  mild  or  hot  enchilada  sauce 
1  soup  can  milk 


Brown  meat  in  skillet;  add  soups  and  milk.  Cook  until  mixed 
#ell.  Line  casserole  dish  with  half  of  chips.  Pour  meat/soup  mixture 
)ver  chips.  Sprinkle  Vi  of  the  cheese  over  this.  Repeat  this  layering 
orocedure.  Cover  top  with  enchilada  sauce.  Sprinkle  top  with  addi- 
tional cheese.  Cook  at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly. 

Karin  Binkley 
ENCHILADAS 


pkg.  (12  to  a  pkg.)  tortillas  (frozen, 

corn) 

can  mild  enchilada  sauce 

can  hot  enchilada  sauce  or  2  cans 

mild  sauce 


54389 


2  to  3  lb.  ground  beef 

1  pkg.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 

oil 

toothpicks 


63 


MEATS  &  MAIM   DISHES 

Brown  ground  beef;  drain  thoroughly.  Fry  tortillas  in  hot  oil 
only  a  second  until  it  begins  to  sizzle;  dip  hot  tortilla  in  enchilada 
sauce,  making  sure  it  is  completely  covered.  Put  on  a  plate;  put  a 
spoonful  of  meat,  then  onion  and  then  cheese  in  center.  Roll  up  and 
fasten  with  toothpick.  Place  in  a  large  baking  dish.  Do  each  tortilla 
separately.  After  filling  all  tortillas,  spread  remaining  sauce,  onion 
and  cheese  on  top.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

Pat  Whitt 

BURRITO  PIE 

1  (16  oz.)  can  retried  beans  1  c.  Mexican  salsa 

1  c.  Bisquick  1  vfe  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Va  c.  wafer  1  to  2  Tbsp.  taco  seasoning  mix  to 
1  lb.  ground  beef  taste 

Mix  refried  beans,  Bisquick  and  water  together.  Spread  in  bot- 
tom and  up  sides  of  greased  10-inch  deep  pie  plate.  Brown  ground 
beef  and  drain  thoroughly.  To  beef  add  seasoning  and  a  small 
amount  of  salsa  (2  tablespoons  approximately).  Layer  beef  on  top  of 
bean  mixture.  Add  layer  of  salsa.  Top  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  at 
375°  for  30  minutes. 

Pat  Whitt 


FLANK  STEAKS 

1  y?  lb.  flank  steak  Vz  tsp.  salt 
4  tsp.  vinegar  pepper 

4  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard  garlic  powder  to  taste 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  Yz  c.  shredded  onion 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  steak,  and  coat  steak  with  this  mix- 
ture. Let  stand  several  hours.  Broil  10  to  15  minutes. 


Janice  Sykes 


MEAT  LOAF 

1  Va  lb.  ground  beef  %  c.  warm  water 

y*  lb.  ground  pork  Vz  c.  catsup 

1  Vz  c.  Progresso  bread  crumbs  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  pkg.  Lipton  onion  soup  mix 


64- 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  put  in  9  x  5-inch  loaf  pan.  Bake 
uncovered  at  350°  for  1  V2  hours. 

Pat  Whitt 


BASIC  BARBEQUE  HAMBURGER  DELIGHT 

1  lb.  ground  chuck  2  tsp.  prepared  mustard 

1  1  finely  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

1  chopped  green  pepper  1  dash  cayenne  pepper  or  red 
%  c.  catsup  pepper  seeds 

1  Tbsp.  vinegar  1  Tbsp.  oil 

Brown  onion  and  green  pepper.  Add  ground  chuck  and  brown. 
Pour  off  any  fat.  Add  catsup,  vinegar,  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne. 
Simmer.  May  add  water  to  keep  moist. 

So  versatile.  Use  on  hamburger  buns  (steamed),  for  sloppy  joes; 
use  layered  with  macaroni  and  cheese  for  casserole;  use  in  soup.  Use 
for  chili  for  hot  dogs  or  with  1  can  beans  and  cooked  rice  for  casserole. 
Uses  are  endless  and  effortless  and  always  a  winner. 


Ruth  Wyatt 
I 

BARBECUE  BEEF  STEW  WITH  NOODLES  OR  RICE 

1 1  lb.  lean  beef  stew  barbecue  sauce  (use  Carolina  Treet 

1  qt.  tomatoes  only) 

1 1  green  pepper,  quartered  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

noodles  or  rice 

Put  beef  stew  in  slow  cooker  and  cook  overnight.  Drain  most  of 
the  liquid  and  add  all  other  ingredients  except  noodles  or  rice.  Sim- 
mer during  the  day.  Serve  over  noodles  or  rice.  Salad  or  cole  slaw 
goes  great  with  this  dish.  Good  for  working  people. 

Doris  Collier 


MRS.  VI  BEFUS'  SLOPPY  JOES 

B  lb.  ground  beef  (4)  1  c.  cider  vinegar  (V2  c.) 

4  c.  chopped  onions  (2)  V3  c.  Worcestershire  (1  V*  oz.) 

4  c.  diced  celery  (2)  Va  c.  brown  sugar  (Vs  c.) 

4  minced  garlic  cloves  (optional)  2  tsp.  salt  (1) 

or  V2  tsp.  dry  2  tsp.  mustard  (1) 

14  oz.  bottle  catsup  (7  oz.)  4  tsp.  paprika  (2) 

12  oz.  bottle  chili  sauce  (6  oz.)  4  tsp.  chili  powder  (2) 

U.  water  (2)  1  tsp.  pepper  (1) 


54389  -  65 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DiSHES 

Brown  ground  beef,  onion,  celery  and  garlic  in  a  large  kettle 
Drain  off  excess  fat.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stir 
ring  frequently  to  prevent  scorching,  reduce  heat  and  cover  with  a  lid 
Simmer  1  to  2  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  between  split  ham 
burger  bun.  Makes  generous  V3  cup  servings.  Serves  50.  Use 
amounts  in  brackets  to  halve  the  recipe.  Served  frequently  in  the 
past  for  youth  fellowship  suppers. 

Mrs.  Vi  Befus 

MICROWAVE  BEEF  AND  TATER  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  hamburger  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1  pkg.  frozen  Tater  Tots  1  can  golden  mushroom  soup 

2  tsp.  minced  onion 

Cook  hamburger  3  to  4  minutes  on  High.  Stir  and  drain  off 
excess  fat.  Top  meat  with  Tater  Tots  and  onion.  Mix  soups  together 
and  pour  over  meat  and  taters.  Cook  on  High  12  to  14  minutes. 

Brenda  Lewis 

BEEF  BOURGUIGNON 

1  (4  to  5  lb.)  boneless  sirloin  roast  1  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  c.  Burgundy  or  other  dry  red  wine  1  lb.  pearl  onions,  peeled 

2  (1 0  %  oz.)  cans  cream  of  Vz  tsp.  garlic  powder 
mushroom  soup  (undiluted)  cherry  tomatoes 

1  pkg.  Lipton  onion  soup  mix  parsley  sprigs 

1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced  hot  cooked  rice 
V*  c.  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Cut  beef  into  1  Viz-inch  cubes;  place  in  a  four  quart  casserole. 
Combine  wine,  soup  and  soup  mix;  stir  well  and  pour  over  beef.  Cov- 
er and  bake  at  325°  for  2  hours.  Saute  mushrooms  in  butter;  drain. 
Add  mushrooms,  green  pepper,  onion  and  garlic  powder  to  beef  mix- 
ture. Cover  and  bake  an  additional  30  minutes.  Stir  in  cherry  toma- 
toes. Garnish  with  parsley  sprigs.  Serve  over  rice.  Yields  10  to  12 
servings. 

Julia  A.  Spainhour 

BEAN/HAMBURGER  CASSEROLE 

2  cans  baked  beans  1  lb.  hamburger,  browned  and 
1  can  navy  or  white  beans  drained 

1  c.  catsup  prepared  mustard 

1  small  pkg.  onion  soup  mix  vinegar 

sugar 

-66- 


» 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 


Combine  all  ingredients,  including  mustard  and  vinegar;  add 
jj  sugar  to  taste  (try  2  tablespoons  each  to  start).  Bake  at  350°  for  45 
minutes. 

Bonny  McNally 


: 


MARINATED  FLANK  STEAK 


1  c.  white  wine 

Va  c.  soy  sauce 

1  (1  oz.)  pkg.  meat  marinade 

1  Tbsp.  sugar 


2Tbsp.  olive  oil 
2  cloves  garlic,  crushed 
tetsp.  ground  ginger 
flank  steak 


Combine  wine,  soy  sauce,  meat  marinade,  sugar,  olive  oil,  garlic 
and  ginger  in  a  large  shallow  dish,  mixing  well.  Place  steak  in  and 
cover.  Refrigerate  for  3  hours,  turning  steak  occasionally.  Remove 
steak  from  marinade.  Grill  5  inches  from  medium  coals  for  6  to  7 
minutes  per  side.  Slice  steak  thinly  diagonally  across  the  grain. 
j  Penny  Petree  Goode 


GREEN  MEADOWS  MEAT  LOAF 


1  lb.  ground  beef 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  (save  2 

Tbsp.  for  sauce) 
V2  tsp.  salt 

Sauce: 

14  c.  ketchup 
v2Tbsp.  chopped  onion 
A  c.  water 


V4tsp.  black  pepper 
Yz  c.  water 
Vz  c.  oatmeal 


2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  Tbsp.  sugar 


Mix  ground  beef  and  other  ingredients  and  place  in  a  350°  oven 
while  mixing  the  sauce.  After  mixing  the  sauce  pour  this  over  the 
neat  loaf  and  bake  50  minutes  or  until  done. 


Doris  Ward 


SWEET-SOUR  MEAT  BALLS 


>  slices  dry  bread 
!  lb.  ground  beef 
h.  c.  grated  onion 

<2  tsp.  garlic  salt 


54389 


V'4tsp.  pepper 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
Sweet-Sour  Sauce  for  Beef 


-67- 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

Cut  bread  in  cubes.  Soak  in  a  little  cold  water  until  sof 
Squeeze  out  water.  Combine  with  remaining  ingredients,  excep 
sweet-sour  sauce.  Shape  into  1  Vk-inch  balls.  Brown  balls  in  skills 
containing  a  little  hot  fat.  Place  in  jelly  roll  or  other  flat  pan  and  bak 
at  450°  for  15  to  18  minutes.  Place  balls  in  Sweet-Sour  Sauce  for  Be* 
and  simmer  10  minutes.  (If  balls  are  made  ahead,  add  sauce  to  thei 
and  heat  in  oven  about  15  minutes.)  Makes  about  36  meat  balls,  8  t 
9  servings. 

Irene  McNal 


GOLDEN  BEEF  QUICHE 

1  deep-dish  pie  crust  6  eggs 

1  Tbsp.  softened  butter  Vfe  c.  milk 

%to  1  lb.  ground  beef  Vz  tsp.  salt 

I  medium  onion,  minced  V«  tsp.  thyme  leaves 

I I  oz.  can  Cheddar  cheese  soup  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Spread  pie  crust  with  butter.  Light!; 
brown  onion  and  meat,  then  place  in  uncooked  pie  crust.  Mix  in  largo 
bowl  with  fork  or  whisk  undiluted  soup,  eggs  and  other  ingredients; 
Pour  in  pie  crust.  Bake  35  to  40  minutes  or  until  knife  inserted  ii 
center  comes  out  clean. 

Kathy  Hortoi 


COUNTRY  STYLE  STEAK 

1  lb.  round  steak  Vi  c.  seasoned  flour  (salt,  pepper 
butter  flavored  Crisco  and  herbs,  if  desired,  and  small 

2  Tbsp.  sherry  amount  of  garlic  powder) 
2  c.  cold  water 

Cut  round  steak  into  serving  pieces  and  coat  with  seasoned 
flour.  Brown  steak  on  both  sides  in  hot  Crisco.  Remove  the  steak 
from  the  pan,  add  remaining  seasoned  flour  to  drippings  and  brown 
the  flour.  Then  add  2  cups  of  cold  water  to  make  a  thick  gravy.  Add 
the  2  tablespoons  sherry  and  the  meat.  Simmer  until  tender.  Serve 
with  potatoes  or  noodles.  Pork  chops  can  be  substituted  for  steak. 

Evelyn  Reed 


-68- 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 


STANDING   RIB  ROAST 


3  to  4  lb.  rib  roast 
%c.  flour 
ii1  tsp.  salt 


V2  tsp.  freshly  ground  pepper 
1  Tbsp.  paprika 
minced  garlic  (if  desired) 


Trim  roast  of  excess  fat.  Heat  oven  to  325°.  Combine  flour,  salt, 
pepper,  paprika  and  garlic.  Rub  this  mixture  over  entire  surface  of 
roast.  Place  the  roast  fat  side  up  in  a  shallow  roasting  pan.  Insert  a 
meat  thermometer  into  the  thickest  part  of  the  roast,  making  sure 
the  tip  does  not  touch  the  bone.  For  very  rare:  15  to  17  minutes  per 
pound  on  130°;  medium  rare:  18  to  20  minutes  per  pound  on  150°  and 
well  done:  22  to  28  minutes  per  pound  on  165°.  When  desired 
doneness  is  reached,  turn  heat  off  and  leave  oven  door  ajar  to  allow 
the  meat  to  rest  for  20  minutes.  This  makes  the  meat  easier  to  carve. 


Evelyn  Reed 


QUICK  AND  EASY  CHILI 


1  lb.  ground  beef 

Vz  c.  chopped  green  pepper 
Vzc.  chopped  onion 

2  Tbsp.  chili  powder 

2  cans  Campbell's  chili  beef  soup, 
undiluted 


Vz  c.  water 

1  (16  oz.)  can  tomatoes,  cut  up 
1  (15  Vz  oz.)  can  kidney  beans, 
undrained 


Brown  beef.  Drain  thoroughly.  Cook  pepper  and  onion  until 
'done.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Simmer,  stirring  frequently.  Can  be 
ready  in  15  minutes,  but  better  if  you  simmer  several  hours.  Yields 
8  cups. 

Pat  Whitt 


SICILIAN  MEAT  ROLL 


2  beaten  eggs 

%c.  soft  bread  crumbs  (1  slice) 

Vz  c.  tomato  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  snipped  parsley  or  1  Tbsp. 

dried  flakes 
Vz  tsp.  dried  oregano 
V4  tsp.  salt 


1/4tsp.  pepper 

1  small  clove  garlic,  minced 

2  lb.  lean  ground  beef 

8  thin  slices  boiled  ham 
6oz.  shredded  Mozzarella 

3  slices  Mozzarella,  halved 
diagonally 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  beef,  ham  and  cheese.  Stir  in 

beef,  mixing  well.  On  foil  or  waxed  paper,  pat  meat  into  a  12  x  10- 

jinch  rectangle.    Arrange  ham  slices  atop  meat,  leaving  a  margin 


154389 


69 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

around  edges.  Sprinkle  shredded  cheese  over  ham.  Starting  fron 
short  end,  fold  over  and  seal  edges  (so  cheese  won't  run  out!).  Plact 
meat  loaf  pan  over  top  and  lift  meat  from  underneath,  turning  mea 
and  pan  right  side  up.  Bake  1  hour  and  15  minutes  at  350°.  Plac< 
cheese  slices  on  top  of  meat  and  return  to  oven  for  5  minutes  unti 
cheese  melts. 

Bonny  McNaii 

MARINATED  POT  ROAST  DINNER  IN  SLOW  COOKER 

3  lb.  beef  chuck  pot  roast  1  tsp.  dried  basil,  crushed 

1  Vz  c.  tomato  juice  Vfe  tsp.  thyme,  ground 

Va  c.  wine  vinegar  Va  tsp.  pepper 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  1  small  onion,  halved 

2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  c.  chopped  carrot 
1  Vz  tsp.  salt  Vz  c.  cold  water 

1  tsp.  sugar  Va  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Trim  excess  fat  from  roast  and  cut  to  fit  cooker.  Place  meat  in 
plastic  bag  and  set  in  a  deep  bowl.  Mix  tomato  juice,  wine  vinegar, 
minced  garlic,  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt,  sugar,  basil,  thyme  and 
pepper  and  pour  over  meat.  Close  plastic  bag  and  marinate  overnight 
in  refrigerator  (turn  twice).  In  crockery  cooker  place  onion  and  car 
rots.  Place  meat  on  top  of  vegetables  and  add  marinade.  Cover  and 
cook  on  low  heat  8  to  10  hours.  Remove  roast  and  vegetables.  Mea 
sure  2  cups  of  cooking  liquid  and  pour  into  a  saucepan.  Return  meat 
and  vegetables  to  cooker  and  cover  to  keep  warm.  Blend  cold  water 
and  flour  and  stir  into  cooking  liquid.  Cook  until  thickened.  Place 
meat  on  a  serving  platter;  top  with  vegetables.  Pour  some  gravy  over 
the  meat  and  vegetables  and  put  remaining  gravy  in  a  bowl  and  serve 

Evelyn  Reed 

HAMBURGER  UPSIDE-DOWN  PIE 

salad  oil  2  tsp.  catsup 

Va  c.  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  chili  powder 

Vz  c.  chopped  green  pepper  1  tsp.  salt 

1  lb.  ground  beef  Va  tsp.  pepper 
1  can  tomato  sauce  (8  oz.) 

Saute  onion,  green  pepper  and  meat  in  2  teaspoons  salad  oil 
until  brown.  Add  tomato  sauce,  chili,  catsup,  salt  and  pepper.  Sim- 
mer. Turn  into  casserole  and  top  with  corn  meal  mixture. 


-70- 


\ 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 


Corn  Meal  Mixture: 

Vfe  c.  flour 
%c.  corn  meal 
j  2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  tsp.  salt 


dash  of  thyme 
1  tsp.  sugar 
1egg 

Vz  c.  milk 


Spread  corn  meal  mixture  over  meat  and  pop  into  preheated 
350°  oven  for  about  30  minutes.  Invert  on  platter  and  serve 
immediately. 

VI  Befus 


HAMBURGER  HOT  DISH 


1  to  1  Vz  lb.  hamburger 

1  can  kidney  beans 

1  can  tomato  soup,  undiluted 

1  c.  water 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 


1  green  pepper,  chopped 
%c.  uncooked  elbow  macaroni 
1  tsp.  chili  powder  or  to  taste 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Pour  into  a  2  quart  baking  dish,  rec- 
tangular shaped.  Bake  in  oven  at  375°  for  one  hour  or  until  liquid  is 
absorbed  and  macaroni  is  well  done.  Makes  a  good  meal  when  served 
with  creamed  potatoes  and  tossed  salad. 

Mrs.  Bruce  McKnight 


TERIYAK!  SHISH-KABOBS 


1  V2  to  2  lb.  top  sirloin  or  a  sirloin  tip 

roast 
i  V2  c.  soy  sauce 
■Va  c.  brown  sugar 
I  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil 
1  tsp.  dry  ginger 
Y«  tsp.  pepper 


V*  tsp.  garlic  powder  or  2  cloves 

garlic,  minced 
assorted  vegetables  (if  desired) 
1  Vfe-inch  squares  green  pepper 
1  small  jar  whole  onions 
cherry  tomatoes 


Slice  beef  into  strips  about  V4-inch  thick  and  2-inches  long.  Mix 
ill  ingredients  except  beef  and  vegetables  to  make  marinade  sauce. 
3tir  meat  into  marinade  and  refrigerate  overnight  or  let  stand  2 
hours  at  room  temperature.  Fold  strips  of  meat,  accordion  style,  onto 
3kewers,  spacing  vegetables  as  desired.  Broil  over  hot  charcoal,  tuni- 
ng often  and  basting  with  remaining  marinade  until  done. 

Mrs.  Bruce  McKnight 


.64389 


71- 


MEATS  &  MAIN  DISHES 


LOW-FAT  QUICK  AND  EASY  CHILI  CON  CARNE 


1  Vz  to  2  lb.  coarsely  ground  round 
or  ground  turkey  can  be  used 
entirely  or  as  half  of  meat 

1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  can  Bush's  chili  hot  beans, 
undrained 

1  can  tomatoes,  chopped  and 
undrained 


1  Vstsp,  chili  powder 
1  tsp.  dried  whole  oregano 
1  tsp.  ground  cumin 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1/2  can  Old  El  Paso  whole  green 
chilies,  chopped 


Cook  meat  and  onion  in  large  skillet  or  pot  until  browned.  Stir 
to  crumble  meat.  Drain  any  grea3e  off.  Stir  in  all  other  ingredients. 
Reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  15  to  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
These  ingredients  can  be  adjusted  to  suit  your  taste  without  hurting 
the  end  product. 

Evelyn  M.  Sellers 


LASAGNA 


1  !b.  hamburger 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 

1  Tbsp.  whole  basil 

1  Yi  tsp.  salt 

1  ib.  canned  tomatoes 

10  oz.  (15  pieces)  lasagna 

12  oz.  tomato  paste 


3  c.  cottage  cheese 

V2  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

2  Tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

2  eggs,  beaten 
1  tsp.  salt 

Vz  tsp.  pepper 

3  (6  oz.)  pkg.  thin  sliced  Mozzarella 


Brown  and  drain  hamburger.  Add  garlic,  basil,  salt  and  toma- 
toes. Simmer  30  minutes.  Cook  noodles  according  to  package  direc- 
tions. Combine  tomato  paste,  cottage  cheese,  Parmesan,  parsley, 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  In  a  large  lasagna  pan,  layer  5  noodles,  V3  cot- 
tage cheese  mixture,  1  package  sliced  Mozzarella  and  Vs  of  meat  mix- 
ture. Repeat  twice  more.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  375°.  Wait  10  min- 
utes to  cut  and  serve. 

Bonny  McNally 


LOW-FAT  BROWN  RICE  BAKE 


1  pkg.  dry  onion  soup  mix 

3  c.  water 

1  (2  oz.)  can  mushrooms,  undrained 


3  beef  bouillon  cubes 
Va  c.  brown  rice,  uncooked 


-72 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour 
I  nto  a  baking  dish.  Cover  and  bake  at  325°  for  one  hour  or  until  rice 
s  tender.  Stir  occasionally.  Serve  hot.  Serves  6. 

Evelyn  M.  Sellers 


WILD  RICE  SALAD 


1  box  frozen  green  peas 
1  can  mushrooms 


I  box  Uncle  Ben's  wild  rice 

:herry  tomatoes 

I  bottle  Italian  salad  dressing 

l:         Cook  rice  according  to  directions.  Cool.  Mix  in  salad  dressing 
,ind  tomatoes;  add  mushrooms.    Marinate  overnight.  Just  before 
lerving,  toss  in  peas.  Do  not  cook  peas. 
I  Diana  Davis 


SPICY  RICE 


Tbsp.  butter 

tsp.  grated  fresh  ginger  (optional) 
4C.  green  onions,  chopped 


Vz  c.  rice 

1  c.  chicken  broth 


In  a  small  saucepan,  melt  butter  over  medium  heat.  Add  ginger 

nd  onions.  Cook  3  minutes.  Add  rice,  stirring  to  coat.  Add  chicken 

iroth,  cover  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  to  low  and  simmer  15 

,  ninutes.    Remove  from  heat  and  let  stand  5  minutes.    Makes  2 

ervings. 

Michelle  Corthren 


BAKED  RICE 


c.  raw  rice 
c.  water 

can  beef  bouillon 
:  onion,  chopped 


Vac.  chopped  green  pepper 
1  c.  chopped  celery 
Va  stick  butter 


. 


Mix  all  together;  bake  1  hour  at  325°. 


LOW-FAT  OVEN  FRIED  CHICKEN 


Penny  Goode 


chicken,  cut  up  and  trimmed  of 

skin  and  fat  or  use  pieces  of  your 

choice 

!  c.  plain  dry  bread  crumbs 

i  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


1  Tbsp.  dried  parsley  flakes, 

crumbled 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  Vz  tsp.  paprika 
vegetable  oil  spray  (if  desired) 
low-fat  or  skim  milk 


4389 


-73- 


'! 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

Cover  chicken  pieces  with  milk  and  soak  for  15  minutes  or  long-$ 
er.  Put  in  refrigerator  if  necessary  to  keep  cool.  Combine  other  ingre- 1  li 
dients,  except  oil  spray,  in  a  shallow  bowl  or  plate.  Dip  each  piece  of 
chicken  in  breading  mixture,  coating  on  all  sides.  Place  coated  chick-  (I 
en  on  greased  baking  sheet  (nonstick  surface  is  best).  Lightly  spray 
pieces  with  vegetable  oil  spray,  if  desired.   Bake  in  preheated  375° 
oven  for  about  45  minutes.  May  take  longer  for  a  large  chicken.  Turn 
once  or  twice  during  baking. 

Evelyn  M.  Sellers  » 

ill 

H 

ORANGE  CHICKEN 

2  whole  chicken  breasts,  halved  Va  tsp.  dried  rosemary,  crumbled 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine,  melted  pinch  of  black  pepper 

Vz  tsp.  paprika  1  c.  orange  juice 

Va  c.  finely  chopped  yellow  onion  grated  rind  of  1  orange 

1  tsp.  salt  ? 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Arrange  chicken  breasts  in  13  x  9  x  2-inch 
baking  dish.  Drizzle  melted  butter  evenly  over  the  breasts  and  sprin- 
kle them  with  paprika.  In  a  small  bowl  combine  rosemary,  pepper, 
orange  juice  and  orange  rind.  Pour  over  the  breasts.  Bake  uncovered 
for  25  minutes  or  until  fork-tender,  basting  occasionally  with  pan 
juices.  Serve  with  egg  noodles  or  rice.  Serves  4.  Calories  per 
serving,  195. 

Evelyn  Reed 

CHICKEN  CORDON  BLEU 

8  chicken  breast  halves,  skinned  4  slices  cooked  ham,  cut  in  half 

and  boned  4  slices  Swiss  cheese,  cut  in  half 

Va  tsp.  salt  Vs  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Va  tsp.  pepper  1  Ms  c.  fine  bread  crumbs 

2  eggs,  beaten  vegetable  oil 
1  c.  milk 

Place  each  piece  of  chicken  between  2  sheets  of  wax  paper,  flat- 
ten to  Winch  thickness,  using  a  meat  mallet  or  rolling  pin.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Combine  eggs  and  milk.  Brush  both  sides  of 
chicken  with  milk  mixture.  Place  a  piece  of  ham  and  a  piece  of  cheese 
in  center  of  each  piece  of  chicken.  Brush  top  of  cheese  slices  with  milk 
mixture.   Fold  each  breast  lengthwise  and  secure  with  toothpicks. 

-74- 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

)redge  chicken  in  flour,  dip  in  remaining  milk  mixture  and  coat  well 
vith  bread  crumbs.  Cover  and  chill  1  hour.  Heat  V^-inch  oil  in  skillet. 
iry  chicken  breasts  until  golden  brown,  turning  frequently.  Cook 
until  done.  Drain  well.  Serve  with  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Pat  Whitt 

CRISPY  CHICKEN   BAKE 

2  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  (1  %  oz.)  envelope  onion  soup  mix 

3  tsp.  pepper  2  eggs,  beaten 
chicken  breast  halves,  skinned  2  Tbsp.  water 

c.  Rice  Krispies  cereal,  crushed  Va  c.  plus  2  Tbsp.  margarine,  melted 

c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Combine  flour  and  pepper.  Dredge  chicken  in  flour;  set  aside. 
Combine  cereal,  cheese  and  onion  soup  mix  and  set  aside.  Combine 
ggs  and  water;  dip  chicken  in  egg  mixture  and  coat  with  cereal  mix- 
ure.  Place  chicken  breasts  in  a  13  x  9x  2-inch  baking  dish.  Drizzle 
nth  melted  margarine.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  350°  for  30  minutes, 
'urn  chicken  and  bake  an  additional  30  minutes  or  until  tender. 
I  fields  6  servings. 


Anna  Fouts 


SPINACH  LASAGNA 


•  small  box  lasagna  noodles  8  oz.  grated  Swiss  cheese 

(10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  spinach,  Vz  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

chopped  1  (32  oz.)  jar  Ragu  chunky  garden 

1  eggs,  beaten  style  spaghetti  sauce  (garlic  and 

(24  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese  onion  flavor) 

0  oz.  grated  Mozzareila  cheese  salt  to  taste 

Cook  spinach  by  package  directions;  drain  very  well.  Cook 
isagna  noodles  and  set  aside.  Mix  together  spinach,  eggs,  all  cheeses 
nd  salt.  In  a  3  quart  rectangular  dish,  layer  tomato  sauce,  noodles, 
hen  spinach  mixture.  Repeat  layers,  ending  with  tomato  sauce  on 
op.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Suzan  Anderson 

,  MACARONI  CASSEROLE 

c.  broken  macaroni  1  c.  chopped  celery 

;  lb.  grated  cheese  (your  choice)  V2  stick  margarine 

onion,  chopped  1  can  mushroom  soup 

hard-boiled  eggs  1  can  tomatoes 

1  green  pepper  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


>43S9  -  75  - 


MEATS  &  MAINS  DISHES 

Cook  macaroni  until  done.  Rinse  in  cold  water.  Chop  pepper, 
onion,  celery  and  tomatoes.  Cook  these  together  15  minutes.  Add 
this  to  the  macaroni,  margarine  and  chopped  eggs.  Add  mushroom 
soup  and  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish  (9  x  13-inches).  Cover  with 
grated  cheese.  Bake  in  very  slow  oven  about  1  Vz  hours  or  until  done 
at  250°  to  300°. 

Mrs.  John  F.  Perkins 
BAKED  SPAGHETTI 


1  lb.  ground  chuck 

1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 

Vz  c.  chopped  celery 

1  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 

Vz  Isp.  oregano 

1  clove  garlic 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
1  lb.  can  tomatoes 

1  small  can  tomato  sauce 

2  bouillon  cubes,  dissolved  in  Vz  c. 
hot  water 

Vz  tsp.  chili  powder 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  Tbsp.  olive  oil 


Brown  ground  chuck  lightly.  Remove  from  skillet.  Saute 
onions  and  peppers  until  soft,  but  not  brown.  Add  remaining  ingre- 
dients and  simmer  for  1  hour.  Add  a  little  water,  if  needed.  Cook  8 
ounces  spaghetti  in  boiling  water  until  tender;  drain.  Pour  spaghetti 
into  9  x  13-inch  baking  dish.  Cover  with  spaghetti  sauce.  Bake  for  25 
minutes  at  350°.  Cover  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  for  5  minutes 
more. 

Evelyn  Whin 

QUICKEN  CHICKEN  PIE 


2  c.  cooked  chicken,  cut  into 

bite-size  pieces 
1  can  Pillsbury  refrigerated  flaky 

tenderfiake  biscuits 


1  Vz  c.  chicken  broth 
1  Vz  Tbsp.  straight  flour 
crushed  tarragon 
melted  butter 


Put  bite  size  pieces  of  chicken  in  a  9-inch  pie  plate.  Mix  flour  in 
small  amount  of  cold  water  until  smooth.  Add  this  to  chicken  broth 
and  cover  over  medium-high  heat  until  thickened.  Pour  over  chick- 
en. Quarter  each  biscuit  and  arrange  on  casserole  with  points  up. 
Brush  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  crushed  tarragon.  Bake 
at  375°  for  20  to  25  minutes  or  until  biscuits  are  brown. 

Evelyn  Reed 


-76 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 


CHICKEN  YUMMY 


2  c.  diced  cooked  chicken 
1  c.  drained  mushrooms  or  fresh 
|  Vic.  chopped  onion 
Vzc.  mayonnaise 


1  can  undiluted  cream  of  chicken 

soup 
1  c.  sour  cream 
6  slices  white  bread 
buttered  bread  crumbs 


Trim  crusts  from  bread  and  cut  into  V2-inch  cubes.  Mix  all  ingre- 
dients together  and  put  in  greased  baking  dish.  Cover  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  1  hour  at  300°.  Delicious!!  Serves  8. 

Susan  Gall 


CHICKEN  DIVAN 


8  chicken  breasts,  deboned  and 
cooked 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 
:  1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  c.  cooked  rice  (not  Minute) 
1  tetsp.  curry 


1  (4  oz.)  pkg.  grated  Cheddar 
cheese 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  chopped  broccoli, 
cooked  and  drained,  or  fresh 
broccoli,  cooked  until  tender 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Vfe  c.  bread  crumbs 


t 

Put  cooked  rice  in  bottom  of  9  x  13-inch  casserole.  Layer  brocco- 
li li  over  rice.  Place  cooked  chicken  on  top  of  broccoli.  Combine  soup, 
mayonnaise,  curry  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  well  and  pour  over  other 
ingredients.  Sprinkle  with  cheese,  then  bread  crumbs.  Bake  at  350° 
for  30  minutes. 

Mary  Whitt 


CHICKEN  PARISIENNE 


4  to  6  boneless  chicken  breasts 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
'  3  oz.  can  sliced  mushrooms  {2h  c.) 


1  c.  dairy  sour  cream 
Vz  c.  cooking  sherry 
paprika 


Place  chicken  breasts  in  1 3  x  9  x  1-inch  deep  baking  dish.  Com- 
bine soup,  mushrooms  and  liquid,  sour  cream  and  sherry.  Pour  over 
chicken.  Sprinkle  generously  with  paprika.  Bake  at  350°  about  1  to 
1  Va  hours  or  until  tender. 

Michelle  Corthren 


154389 


77 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

COSMOPOLITAN  CHICKEN 

5  to  6  deboned  chicken  breasts  %  tsp.  salt 

Vz  pt.  sour  cream  dash  of  pepper 

2  tsp,  lemon  juice  dash  of  paprika 

2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  Pepperidge  Farm  dressing 

1  tsp.  celery  salt  1  stick  margarine 

1  tsp.  garlic  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  chicken,  dressing  and  margarine 
Dip  chicken  in  mixture;  roll  in  dressing.  Put  in  casserole  dish.  Melt 
margarine  and  pour  over  chicken.  Cover.  Bake  at  350°  for  one  hour 

Nancy  Reece 

CHICKEN  DIJON 

1  chicken  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1 6  oz.  cooked  broccoli  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vz  c.  sour  cream  dash  of  white  wine 

Vz  c.  mayonnaise  4  slices  toast 

Va  c.  milk  Parmesan  cheese 

Cook  chicken  and  take  off  bone.  Put  chicken  and  broccoli  in 
buttered  casserole  dish.  Mix  together  sour  cream,  mayonnaise,  milk 
cream  of  chicken  soup,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  white  wine.  Poui 
sauce  over  chicken  and  broccoli.  Cut  toast  into  small  squares  ana 
saute  in  butter.  Place  sauteed  toast  on  top  of  casserole  and  sprinkle 
with  Parmesan  cheese.  Cover  with  foil.  Bake  at  425°  for  20  minutes 

Debbie  Cratei 


CHICKEN  SPECTACULAR 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  long  grain  and  wild  1  (8  oz.)  can  sliced  water  chestnuts, 
rice  mix  drained 

3  to  4  c.  chopped  cooked  chicken  1  (4  oz.)  jar  diced  pimento,  drained 

2  (16  oz.)  cans  French-style  green  1  medium  onion,  chopped 
beans,  drained  1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  can  cream  of  celery  soup,  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

undiluted 

Cook  rice  according  to  package  directions.  Combine  rice  and 
remaining  ingredients;  mix  well.  Spoon  mixture  into  a  lightly 
greased  3  quart  casserole.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  to  35  minutes  until 
mixture  is  hot  throughout  and  slightly  browned.  Serves  6  to  8. 

Evelyn  M.  Sellers 


78- 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE  CASSEROLE 

1  Vz  to  2  c.  uncooked  rice  2  cans  water 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  cooked  chicken 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

Mix  two  soups  and  water.  Place  rice  in  bottom  of  9  x  13-inch 
dish.  Pour  mixed  soups  over  rice.  Place  cooked  chicken  pieces,  cut 
into  bite  size  pieces,  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  chicken 
seasoning,  if  desired.  Cover  with  foil  and  bake  in  325°  oven  until  rice 
j  is  almost  done.  Remove  foil  and  bake  until  rice  is  done  and  chicken  is 
browned. 

Mrs.  John  F.  Perkins 


BARBEQUED  CHICKEN 
3  lb.  fryer,  cut  into  frying  pieces 

Sauce: 

i  2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  3  Tbsp.  catsup 

1 1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  tsp.  salt 

jj  2  Tbsp.  vinegar  1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

:  4  Tbsp.  water  1  tsp.  chili  powder 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  tsp.  paprika 

a 1  Tbsp.  brown  sugar  Vz  tsp.  red  pepper 

Mix  together  and  heat  sauce.  Dip  each  piece  of  chicken  in  the 
3  sauce  and  place  in  a  baking  dish.   Pour  remaining  sauce  over  the 
chicken.  Cover  with  aluminum  foil.  Cook  in  a  450°  oven  for  15  min- 
utes. Turn  oven  down  to  325°  and  cook  about  45  minutes. 

Mavareen  Foil 


SHERRIED  ROCK  CORNISH  GAME  HENS 

2  Rock  Cornish  game  hens  pepper 

1 1  c.  dry  sherry  V2  tsp.  dried  tarragon 

:  1  stick  butter  2  tsp.  cornstarch 
salt 

Wash  birds  inside  and  out  and  dry.   Salt  and  pepper  cavities. 

Rinse  insides  and  rub  outsides  with  Va  cup  sherry.  Melt  butter  in  flat 

baking  dish  and  brown  birds  on  all  sides.  Put  tarragon  into  the  rest 

1  of  the  sherry  and  pour  over  birds  in  pan.   Roast  birds  uncovered  in 


154389  -  79 


'. 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DiSHES 

350°  oven  for  45  to  60  minutes,  basting  often  with  the  pan  juices.  Re- 
move cooked  birds  and  keep  warm.  Thicken  pan  juices  (if  necessary) 
with  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and 
cook  quickly  until  shiny.  Serve  in  a  separate  sauceboat. 

Evelyn  Reed 

LEMON  BARBEQUE  CHICKEN 

1  c.  flour  2  tsp.  paprika 

2  tsp.  salt  1  chicken,  cut  up 
Va  tsp.  pepper                                            Vz  c.  margarine  or  butter 

Lemon  Sauce: 

y«tsp.  cloves  1  tsp.  pepper 

Vz  tsp.  salt  2  Tbsp.  chopped  onion 

Va  c.  vegetable  oii  ■/?  tsp.  thyme 

Yi  c.  lemon  juice 

Heat  oven  to  375°.  Mix  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  in  a  bowl 
or  paper  bag.  Put  margarine  in  oblong  pan  (13  x  9-inches)  and  have 
it  melting  in  oven.  Coat  pieces  of  chicken  in  flour  mixture  and  place 
in  pan  of  melted  margarine,  skin  side  down.  Bake  45  minutes.  Spoon 
sauce  over  chicken,  saving  half  of  it.  Bake  5  minutes.  Turn  chicken 
over  and  spoon  on  remainder  of  sauce.  Bake  10  minutes  more 
Serves  4  to  6. 

Susan  Gall 


SUNDAY  CHICKEN 

4  chicken  breasts,  boned  1  can  soup  (either  cream  of  celery, 

1  pkg.  frozen  hash  brown  potatoes  mushroom  or  chicken) 

1c.  sour  cream  Vs  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese  Va  tsp.  pepper 

Vac.  oil  flour  to  coat  chicken 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  coat  chicken.  Brown  chicken  in  oil 
and  set  aside.  Thaw  potatoes;  crumble  in  bottom  of  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish.  Mix  soup  and  sour  cream.  Pour  V2  of  mixture  over  potatoes. 
Add  grated  cheese.  Place  chicken  breasts  on  top  and  cover  with 
remaining  soup  mixture.  Bake  at  325°  for  40  to  50  minutes. 

Lib  Steelman 


80 


I 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 

HOT  CHICKEN  SALAD 

2  c.  cooked  chicken,  chopped  Vb  tsp.  pepper 

I  c.  pimento,  chopped  Vb  tsp.  Accent 

h  c.  almonds,  chopped  2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

I  c.  water  chestnuts  or  mushrooms,  1  c.  mayonnaise 

chopped  V-2  can  condensed  chicken  soup 

k  tsp.  celery  salt  Vz  can  French  fried  onion  rings 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  onion  rings.  Mix  well.  Place  in 
i  casserole  dish  and  bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Top  with  onion 
"ings.  Bake  until  onions  are  crisp. 

Janice  Sykes 


CHICKEN  AND  BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

2  pkg.  frozen  broccoli  (1 0  oz.  each)  1  tsp.  curry  powder 

2  c.  diced  chicken  V2  c.  bread  crumbs 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  Tbsp.  butter 

I  c.  mayonnaise  Vz  c.  Cheddar  cheese,  shredded 

I  tsp.  lemon  juice 

! 

Cook  broccoli  until  barely  tender;  drain  and  line  bottom  of  13  x 

B  x  2-inch  casserole  dish  with  broccoli.  Layer  chicken  over  broccoli. 

Combine  soup,  mayonnaise,  cheese,  lemon  juice  and  curry  powder; 

Dour  over  chicken.   Top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.   Bake  at  350° 

jibr  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Can  leave  broccoli  uncooked  and 

Dake  casserole  15  minutes  longer. 

Kay  Miller 


DRESSING 

*i  tsp.  poultry  seasoning  V2  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

i  qt.  bread  cubes  1  egg,  slightly  beaten 

I  c.  chicken  broth  V2  c.  chopped  celery,  cooked 
J  chicken  bouillon  cube 

Dissolve  bouillon  cube  in  chicken  broth.   Mix  all  ingredients 
jintil  well  moistened.  Pour  into  a  1  quart  casserole.  Bake  20  minutes 
)r  until  done  in  a  400°  oven. 

Margaret  Bowles 

64389  -  81  - 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 


TURKEY  TETRAZZINI 


4  oz.  spaghetti  (2  c.  uncooked) 

1  Tbsp.  unsalted  margarine 

V*  lb.  mushrooms,  sliced  (1  Vfe  c.) 

2  Tbsp.  flour 

1  V2  c.  skim  milk 
1  Tbsp.  dry  sherry 
Vs  tsp.  pepper 


Vb  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  V2  c.  cooked,  cubed  turkey  or 
chicken  (9  oz.  cooked) 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  pimento 

2  Tbsp.  freshly  grated  Parmesan 

cheese 
2  Tbsp.  chopped  onion 


Preheat  the  oven  to  350°.  Cook  the  spaghetti  by  directions  on 
the  box  without  the  salt.  In  a  small  saucepan  over  medium-high 
heat,  melt  the  margarine.  Add  the  mushrooms  and  onion  and  cook, 
stirring  occasionally,  about  4  minutes.  Add  the  flour  and  cook  about 
1  minute.  Gradually  add  milk,  sherry,  pepper  and  nutmeg  and  cook, 
stirring  constantly,  for  5  minutes  or  until  thickened.  Spray  a  1  quart 
casserole  dish  with  nonstick  cooking  spray.  Place  drained  spaghetti, 
turkey,  pimento  and  sauce  in  dish;  toss  well.  Sprinkle  with  cheese 
and  cover.  Bake  20  to  25  minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Makes  4 
servings. 

Janice  Sykes 


CHILI  CON  TURKEY 


2  Tbsp.  oil 
1  c.  chopped  onion 
1  c.  chopped  celery 
1  clove  minced  garlic 
1  Va  lb.  turkey,  ground 
15  oz.  can  tomato  sauce 


2  tsp.  chili  powder  (mild) 

1  tsp.  ground  cloves 

15  oz.  can  pintos  or  kidney  beans 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  tsp.  ground  cumin  (optional) 


Saute  onions,  celery  and  garlic  in  oil  until  onion  is  golden  brown 
on  low  heat.  Add  turkey  (raise  heat  to  medium).  Cook  until  turkey  is 
no  longer  pink.  Stir  and  add  tomato  sauce,  chili  powder,  cloves  and 
cumin.  Simmer  20  minutes.  Add  beans,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and 
simmer  30  minutes  longer.  Let  rest  5  minutes  before  serving. 

Margie  Peterson 


HAM  AND  CHEESE  LOAF 


1  box  Pillsbury  hot  roll  mix 
1egg 

2  Tbsp.  margarine,  softened 


8  pkg.  Buddig  sandwich  ham 
1  pkg.  sliced  Cheddar  cheese 
1  pkg.  sliced  Mozzarella  cheese 


82 


MEATS  &   MAIN   DISHES 

Make  roll  mix  according  to  directions.  Divide  into  2  balls.  Roll 
each  into  a  rectangle  (approximately  15  x  8-inches).  Put  ham  down 
center  third  of  dough  length.  Top  with  layers  of  cheese.  Cut  1-inch 
wide  strips  along  sides  of  filling  out  to  dough  edges.  Alternating 
sides,  fold  strips  across  filling.  Carefully  put  loaf  on  cookie  sheet. 
Place  cookie  sheet  over  large  shallow  pan  half  filled  with  boiling 
water  for  15  minutes.  Bake  at  400°  for  25  minutes  or  until  done. 

Helen  Steelman 


HOT  DIGGETY  DOG  CASSEROLE 

2  (15  oz.)  cans  pork  and  beans  1  lb.  hot  dogs 

j1  large  onion  1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

1  large  green  pepper  1  Tbsp.  olive  oil 
1  lb.  can  sauerkraut,  drained 

Sauce: 

1  Vo  c.  tomato  ketchup  V*  c.  honey 

1  Tbsp.  horseradish  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Saute  chopped  pepper  and  onion  in  oil.  Pour  beans  into  9x13- 
inch  baking  dish.  On  top  of  beans,  layer  ingredients  as  follows:  sau- 
teed  onion  and  pepper,  sauerkraut,  hot  dogs  (cut  into  1-inch  pieces) 
ind  sauce  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed  well  and  heated.  Bake 
ibr  25  minutes  at  350°.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top  and  bake  for  an 
idditional  5  minutes. 

Evelyn  Whitt 


PORK  AND  RICE 

lb.  pork  tenderloin  1  c.  chicken  broth 

i  medium  onion  Vz  tsp.  sage 

(16  oz.)  can  tomatoes  Vs>  tsp.  thyme 

A  c.  cream  sherry  butter  Crisco 
r  c.  uncooked  rice 

Cut  pork  in  1-inch  cubes  and  slice  onion  in  rings.  Brown  pork 
ubes  in  small  amount  of  butter  Crisco.  Remove  from  pan.  Add 
hicken  broth,  sherry,  sage  and  thyme  to  the  pan  drippings.  Bring  to 
i  boil.  In  a  large  deep  casserole  dish,  put  pork  and  cover  with  sliced 
mion  and  tomatoes  with  juice.  Add  rice  and  then  pour  liquid  still  in 


54389  -  83 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

the  pan  over  contents  of  casserole  dish.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  30  min- 
utes. Check  and  add  more  liquid  if  needed.  Cook  15  minutes  more  or 
until  rice  is  done. 

Evelyn  Reed 

ZUCCHJNf  SAUSAGE  BAKE 

Vs  lb.  Italian  sausage  3  c.  hot  cooked  rice 

xh  c.  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

3  c.  zucchini,  cut  in  3-inch  slices  Yz  c.  shredded  Mozzarella  cheese 

15  oz.  can  Hunt's  tomato  herb  sauce  Va  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Remove  casing  from  sausage;  cook  with  onion  in  10-inch  skillet 
until  sausage  loses  redness.  Remove  and  drain.  Saute  zucchini  in 
skillet  drippings  until  transparent.  Cover  and  cook  5  minutes  until 
almost  done;  reserve.  Combine  half  the  Hunt's  sauce  with  rice  and 
sausage  mixture.  Add  salt;  mix  well.  Put  in  two  8  x  8-inch  pans.  Ar- 
range slices  of  zucchini  over  top.  Sprinkle  with  Mozzarella  and  Par- 
mesan. Spoon  remaining  Hunt's  sauce  over  all.  Bake,  covered,  in 
350°  oven  20  minutes. 

Jane  Bardou 


SAUSAGE  CASSEROLE 

1  Vz  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

1  lb.  bulk  sausage  2  c.  milk 

6  eggs  bread  cubes 
Vfe  Tbsp.  dry  mustard 

Brown  sausage  and  drain.  Beat  eggs  with  milk,  salt  and  dry 
mustard.  Cover  bottom  of  9  x  12-inch  Pyrex  dish  with  bread  cubes. 
Cover  with  sausage  and  cheese.  Pour  egg  mixture  over  sausage  and 
bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes,  covered.  Uncover  and  bake  15  minutes 
more.  This  is  an  excellent  breakfast  dish  for  company. 

Mrs.  H.  Grey  Goode 


SWEET-SOUR  SAUCE  FOR  BEEF 

1  can  tomatoes  (1  lb.  12  oz.)  Vz  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed  1  tsp.  grated  onion 

Va  c.  vinegar  1 0  gingersnaps,  crushed 


84 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Cook  to  boiling.  Makes  enough  sauce 
i for  36(1  Winch)  meat  balls. 

Irene  McNally 


MUSHROOM  SAUCE 


1  can  undiluted  mushroom  soup 
1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 


1  (4  oz.)  can  sliced  mushrooms, 

drained 
Vz  c.  dry  sherry 


Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  saucepan.  Cook  over  medium  heat 
until  thoroughly  heated. 

Pat  Whitt 


MY  SPECIAL  BAR-B-Q  SAUCE 


!%c.  catsup 
;,%c.  water 

2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Ji1  tsp.  salt 

1  dash  cayenne  pepper 


1  tsp.  paprika 

V^tsp.  pepper 

1  tsp.  chili  powder 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  diced  (optional) 


Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  glass  jar  and  use  when  barbecuing  in  the 
oven  (in  a  pan).  Great  on  chicken  and  pork  chops,  good  for  any  meats. 
Can  be  easily  doubled. 

Carolyn  Barrow 

COOKED  BARBECUE  SAUCE 


Vz  tsp.  salt  (optional) 
3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 
1  tsp.  dry  mustard 
1  tsp.  chili  powder 
1  tsp.  paprika 
Vz  tsp.  cayenne 


3  Tbsp.  ketchup 
s  2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  Tbsp.  margarine 
i1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
?4Tbsp.  water 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


Mix  together  the  ingredients  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  on 
stove.  Pour  over  chicken  or  pork.  Bake  at  300°  to  350°.  covered,  until 
meat  is  tender.  Uncover  last  20  minutes. 

Clark  Larson 


154389 


-85- 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 


CHICKEN   BARBEQUE  SAUCE 


1  stick  margarine 

1  Tbsp.  flour 

2  tsp.  sugar 
Vz  c.  hot  water 
juice  of  1  lemon 


V4tsp.  Tabasco 

few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper 

2  tsp.  A.1.  sauce 

1  tsp.  salt 


! 


Melt  butter,  then  mix  in  flour.    Add  remaining  ingredients. 
Continue  to  heat  for  a  few  minutes  until  sauce  is  thick. 

Gail  Skid  more 
NEPTUNE  SALAD 


1  small  bunch  green  onions, 
chopped  (using  green  tops  also) 


1  small  bunch  celery,  chopped 
Vi  lb.  "Sea  Sticks,"  chopped 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  with  mayonnaise. 


Olive  Ring-Klapp 


SEAFOOD,  FRUIT  AND  VEGGIE  KABOBS 


Marinade: 

Vz  c.  butter  or  margarine 
1  Tbsp.  grated  onion 
Vfe  tsp.  salt 

Kabobs: 

Vz  lb.  fresh  sea  scallops 

V-i.  lb.  bacon,  partially  cooked,  cut  in 

half 
1  navel  orange,  quartered 

1  lime,  quartered 
chunks  of  fresh  pineapple 

2  to  4  large  shrimp,  cleaned  (tails 
on) 


Va  c.  Anisette  liqueur 
2  to  3  drops  hot  sauce 


1  onion,  quartered 
1  ear  corn,  quartered 
1  small  zucchini,  chunked 
4  large  mushroom  caps 
chunks  of  celery,  green  pepper  and 
red  pepper 


In  a  small  skillet,  melt  butter.  Add  onion  and  saute  for  5  min- 
utes. Remove  from  heat;  add  Anisette,  salt  and  pepper  sauce.  Set 
aside.  On  2  skewers,  alternate  scallop  wrapped  in  bacon,  shrimp, 
orange,  lime  and  pineapple.  On  2  other  skewers,  alternate  onion, 
zucchini,  celery,  green  and  red  peppers,  corn  and  mushrooms.  Grill 
kabobs  4  inches  from  medium  coals  5  minutes  on  each  side  (total  of 


86- 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

0  minutes),  basting  frequently  with  marinade.  Serve  on  bed  of  hot, 
ooked  rice.  Serves  two  a  complete  meal! 

Patti  Petree 
ELEGANT  TUNA 


hell  macaroni,  cooked  firm  and 

drained 

can  tuna,  drained  and  flaked 
\  pkg.  (small)  frozen  shrimp 

(optional) 


1  can  cream  of  shrimp  soup 
1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 
Vfec.  milk 
V2  c.  sherry 


Soak  shrimp  and  tuna  in  milk  while  you  cook  the  macaroni. 
4ix  soups,  milk,  tuna,  shrimp  and  sherry.  Fold  in  macaroni  and 
iake  until  bubbly  at  350°. 

Ruth  Wyatt 


TUNA  MELT 


pkg.  English  muffins 
; cans  tuna 
l  stalks  chopped  celery 

c.  mayonnaise 
ickles  to  taste 


assortment  of  cheeses  (sprinkle 

with) 
sliced  tomatoes  or  chunk  pineapple 
y<ttsp.  salt  and  pepper 
parsley 
Vic.  chopped  onion 


Cook  at  350°  for  5  to  10  minutes  until  cheese  melts.  Makes  12 
ervings. 

Elizabeth  Reed 


SALMON  MOUSSE 


;  pkg.  gelatin 
*c.  cold  water 
4C  boiling  water 
jc.  mayonnaise 
Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
iTbsp.  minced  onion 
>tsp.  Tabasco 
itsp.  paprika 


1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  canned  salmon,  drained 

1  tsp.  chives 

2  Tbsp.  fresh  dill,  snipped 

2  Tbsp.  fresh  parsley,  snipped 
1  c.  low-fat  plain  yogurt 
cottage  cheese  as  needed  (12  oz. 
carton) 


Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Add  hot  water;  stir  until  gelatin 
issolves.  Cool.  Add  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice,  minced  onion,  Tabas- 
o,  paprika  and  salt.  Mix  well.  Chill  to  consistency  of  unbeaten  egg 


)4389 


87- 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

white.  Drain  and  finely  chop  salmon.  Add  this  to  chilled  mixture 
along  with  the  chives,  dill  and  parsley.  Beat  well.  Add  yogurt;  fold 
into  salmon  mixture.  Turn  into  a  2  quart  oiled  mold.  Add  enough 
cottage  cheese  to  fill  the  mold.  Chill  until  set.  Unmold  on  serving 
platter.  Garnish  with  watercress  and  lemon  slices. 

Evelyn  Doty 


MARINATED  SHRIMP 

2  V2  Ib.  frozen  shrimp,  thawed  bay  leaves 

1  ¥?,  c.  sliced,  separated  onions 

Sauce: 

1  V4  c.  salad  oil  1  tsp.  Tabasco  sauce 

%  c.  vinegar  celery  seed 

1  tsp.  salt 

Layer  onion  rings  and  bay  leaves  on  bottom  of  a  casserole  dish 
Cover  with  shrimp.  Sprinkle  with  celery  seed.  Keep  layering  in  this 
order,  ending  with  onions  and  bay  leaves.  Pour  sauce  on  top.  Clost 
tightly  with  plastic  wrap  or  glass  lid.  Store  7  days  in  refrigeratoi 
without  opening. 

Jean  Rackles 


SIMPLE  GREEK  SHRIMP 

\%  c.  or  less  margarine  1  c.  white  or  brown  rice 

1  large  green  bell  pepper,  chopped  1  Ib.  medium-size  shelled  shrimp, 

1  large  onion,  chopped  cooked  until  pink 

28  oz.  can  stewed  tomatoes  2  (6  Vz  oz.)  cans  minced  clams, 

1  or  2  c.  clam  juice  drained 

1  Yz  c.  dry  white  wine  1  c.  Feta  cheese,  crumbled 

Saute  vegetables  until  crisp  and  tender,  about  5  minutes.  Adc 
tomatoes,  clam  juice,  wine  and  rice.  Increase  heat  to  medium-higl' 
and  boil  25  to  30  minutes.  Add  shrimp  and  clams.  Reduce  the  hea1 
to  medium  and  simmer  about  3  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  befon 
serving. 

Janice  Sykei 


88 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

i  CRABMEAT  QUICHE 

I 
1  c.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  grated  1  c.  sour  cream 

3  eggs  1  (6  Yi  oz.)  can  crabmeat 

1  (3  Vz  oz.)  can  French  fried  onions  1  deep-dish  pie  shell 

^  Beat  eggs.   Add  sour  cream  and  cheese.   Drain  crabmeat  and 

add  to  mixture.  Fold  in  crushed  onions  and  pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake 
at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  firm  and  lightly  browned. 

Barbara  Wilkerson 

SALMON  FRITTERS 

15  oz.  can  pink  salmon  oil 

1  egg  grated  onion  (optional) 

1  heaping  tsp.  baking  powder  garlic  salt  (optional) 
V?  c.  sifted  flour 

Save  Vi  cup  juice  from  salmon  when  you  drain  it.  Break  salmon 
up  in  a  bowl.  Add  egg  and  mix.  Add  flour  and  mix.  Add  baking  pow- 

.  der  to  liquid  from  salmon  and  stir  until  foamy.  Add  to  salmon  mix- 
ture and  drop  into  hot  oil.  Brown  on  one  side  and  turn.  Grated  onion 

.  and/or  garlic  salt  are  really  good  added  to  mixture  also. 

Patti  Petree 

POOR  MAN'S  CRAB  CAKES 

2  c.  zucchini,  grated  1  Tbsp.  Old  Bay  seasoning 
1  c.  Italian  bread  crumbs                            2  eggs 

1  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Make  into  patties  and  fry.  If  it  doesn't 
look  fluffy,  add  more  mayonnaise.  Delicious. 

Olive  Ring-Klapp 

COQUILLES  ST.  JACQUES 

il  lb.  fresh  scallops  Vi  tsp.  salt 

1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

.  5  Tbsp.  butter  2  wedges  Gruyere  or  Swiss  cheese 

Va  tsp.  thyme  3  Tbsp.  flour 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  c.  milk  or  cream 

1  bay  leaf  %  c.  buttered  soft  bread  crumbs 
i  s1  c.  dry  white  wine 

154389  -  89  - 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

Cut  scallops  in  quarters  and  slice  mushrooms.  Cook  in  2  table- 
spoons butter  and  lemon  juice  until  browned.  Combine  wine,  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper  in  saucepan.  Add  only  scallops  (not  mush- 
rooms). Cook  10  minutes  over  medium  heat  and  drain.  Save  1  cup  of 
broth.  Make  white  sauce  with  3  tablespoons  butter,  cheese,  flour, 
broth  and  milk  (or  cream).  Add  scallops  and  mushrooms  to  sauce. 
Put  in  casserole;  add  crumbs  to  top.  Bake  at  400°  for  10  to  15 
minutes. 

Patti  Petree 
CRAB  CASSEROLE 


1  lb.  crabmeat 

Vz  c.  cracker  crumbs 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  tsp.  parsley  flakes 

1  tsp.  celery  seed 


2  eggs,  beaten 
Vz  c.  chopped  onion 
4  Tbsp.  mustard 
4  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 
1/4C.  melted  butter 


Mix  all  together.   Pour  into  a  greased  casserole  dish.  Bake  at 
350°  for  40  minutes. 

Ruby  Petree 


FRENCH  FRIED  SHRIMP 


2  lb.  shrimp 
1  c.  sifted  all 
1  tsp.  salt 
1  egg  white 


purpose  flour 


%  c,  milk  (1  c.  minus  2  Tbsp.) 
2  Tbsp.  Wesson  oil 
Wesson  oil  for  frying 


Rinse  shrimp  in  cold  water.  Dry  on  absorbent  paper  towels. 
Sift  flour  and  salt  in  a  small  bowl.  Add  egg  white  and  milk.  Beat  with 
hand  mixer  until  smooth.  Beat  in  2  tablespoons  Wesson  oil.  Dip 
shrimp  into  batter,  a  few  at  a  time,  letting  excess  batter  drain.  Lower 
shrimp  into  Wesson  oil  heated  to  375°.  Fry  2  to  3  minutes  until  gold- 
en brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper  towels.  Serves  6. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 


SALMON  LOAF 


1  (1  lb.)  can  salmon 
Vz  c.  chopped  celery 
Vbc.  chopped  onion 
Vz  c.  fine  bread  crumbs 
Vz  tsp.  salt 


Vz  c.  mayonnaise 

pepper  to  taste 

dash  of  dried  parsley  flakes 

paprika 


90 


MEATS   &   MAIN   DISHES 

Drain  salmon  and  save  liquid.  Flake  salmon.  Combine  bread 
crumbs  and  seasonings  with  liquid.  Mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  small 
(greased  loaf  pan.  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

\  Pat  Whitt 

t 

\  CURRIED  SHRIMP  SALAD 

2  c.  cooked  shrimp  V?  c.  mayonnaise 

Vz  c.  celery  2  c.  cooked  rice,  cooled 

m  c.  green  stuffed  olives  3  Tbsp.  French  dressing 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  Vz  c.  minced  parsley 
1  tsp.  curry  powder 

Mix  shrimp,  olives  and  celery  in  large  bowl.  Stir  together  the 
lemon  juice,  curry  powder  and  mayonnaise  and  combine  with  the 
shrimp  mixture.  Toss  together  the  rice,  dressing  and  parsley  and  add 
it  to  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Serve  chilled.  Makes  a  delicious 
summer  dish. 
8  Clark  Larson 

i  DELICIOUS  BRUNCH 

12  slices  white  bread,  crusts  dash  of  pepper 

removed  Vz  tsp.  soy  sauce 

7  to  8  eggs  2  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

1  qt.  milk  (half  and  half,  3  V2  c.)  2  c.  finely  diced  cooked  ham 

Vz  tsp.  salt  %  to  1  lb.  grated  cheese  (New  York 

Vz  tsp.  dry  mustard  state  sharp) 

Line  greased  2  quart  casserole  with  bread  cut  in  4  parts.  Make 

3  layers  of  bread  and  2  layers  of  cheese  and  ham.  Beat  with  rotary 
beater  eggs,  milk,  salt,  mustard,  pepper,  soy  sauce  and  onion.  Pour 

"over  bread,  cheese  and  ham.  Cover  and  refrigerate  6  hours  or  over- 
!night.  Let  stand  at  room  temperature  45  minutes  before  baking. 
Bake  1  hour  at  325°.  May  use  shrimp,  sausage,  etc. 

Rosemary  Worley 

MUSHROOM  TOFU  PIE 

8-inch  pie  shell  Vt  tsp.  pepper 

2  small  onions,  sliced  in  rings  1  tsp.  tarragon 

¥4  tsp.  salt  8  oz.  tofu,  finely  chopped 

4  Tbsp.  olive  oil  2  medium  tomatoes 

3  Vz  c,  sliced  mushrooms  salt  to  sprinkle  on  tomatoes 
2  Tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

154389  -  91  - 


MEATS  &  MAIN   DISHES 

Prebake  pie  shell  for  20  minutes. 

Filling:  Saute  onions  with  Va  teaspoon  salt  in  2  tablespoons  olivi 
oil  until  transparent.  Arrange  sauteed  onion  rings  on  the  bottom  o 
the  pie  shell.  Saute  mushrooms  in  the  remaining  2  tablespoons  oliv< 
oil.  Add  parsley,  remaining  salt,  pepper,  tarragon  and  tofu  and  mb 
well.  Pile  this  mixture  on  top  of  onions.  Sprinkle  sliced  tomatoe: 
with  salt  and  layer  them  on  top  of  tofu  mix.  Bake  15  minutes  or  unti 
tomatoes  are  just  soft.  Don't  bake  so  long  that  tomatoes  lose  color. 

Jane  Bardo: 


-•  EXTRA  RECIPES  •- 


-92 


THE   MORAVIAN   BAND 


The  Moravian  Church  regards  music 
as  a  very  necessary  part  of  life.  Brass 
and  orchestral  instruments  were  used 
early  for  cultural  value,  expression  and 
development  of  religious  life.  The  first 
set  of  trombones  was  received  by  the  church  in  1772;  and 
in  his  book,  "The  Johnny  Reb  Band  From  Salem",  Harry  H. 
Hall  states  that  this  band  from  Salem  "is  the  oldest 
continuing  mixed  wind  ensemble  or  band  in  this  country". 

In  the  early  days  in  Salem,  the  band  was  a  means  of 
communication.  The  Choir  System  was  used  to  denote 
married  men,  married  women,  widowers,  widows,  single 
men,  single  women,  older  boys,  older  girls,  little  boys,  and 
little  girls  --  each  choir,  or  group,  was  assigned  their  own 
Chorale.  For  example,  a  death  was  announced  from  the 
Home  Church  balcony  by  the  Trombone  Choir  playing 
three  Chorales  --  the  first  and  third  was  the  Passion 
Chorale  (for  announcing  deaths),  and  the  second  Chorale 
identified  the  choir  in  which  the  individual  belonged.  Later, 
the  second  location  of  the  boys'  school  tower  was  used  for 
death  announcements  by  the  band.  This  practice  is 
infrequently  used  today  due  to  community  expansion.  The 
custom  of  using  the  band  at  the  graveside  service, 
however,  continues  today. 


The  band  plays  for  Church  Festivals  --  Advent, 
Christmas,  New  Year's  Eve,  Palm  Sunday,  Passion  Week, 
Easter,  and  on  occasions  called  for  by  the  pastor  or  choir 
director. 

The  Moravian  Band  is  best  known  for  its  part  in  the 
Easter  Sunrise  Service.  Bands  assemble  about  two 
o'clock  on  Easter  morning  and  go  throughout  the 
communities  playing  Easter  Chorales  --  all  beginning  with 
"Sleepers,  Wake"  --  to  remind  listeners  of  the  Resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Sunrise  Service  in  God's  Acre. 
The  band  plays  all  of  the  music  for  the  entire  service,  a 
portion  of  which  is  played  antiphonally. 


230  A  Sleepers,  Wake 


I 


tt&35 


'rwmrcf? 


m 


^m 


'.AHLV 


P^gthfrrcrr^^ 


rrrrirefM'fr 


1543-9 


BREADS 


LO-CAL  BRAN  MUFFINS 

2  c.  Kellogg's  Bran  Buds  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

2  small  ripe  bananas,  mashed  1  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 

tec.  skim  milk  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

4  eggs  te  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

5  packets  Sweet  N  Low  6  diced  dried  prunes 

Put  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  mix  with  wooden  spoon.  Bake 
20  minutes  at  350°.  Makes  1  dozen  large  or  1  Vi  dozen  smaller 
muffins. 

Valia  Kane 


BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  c.  All-Bran  1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water  2  eggs,  beaten 
tec.  Wesson  oil  1  te  c.  sugar 

2 tec.  flour  2c.  buttermilk 

2  te  tsp.  soda  2  more  c.  All-Bran 

Mix  1  cup  All-Bran  and  water  and  set  aside.  When  cool,  add 
Wesson  and  set  aside.  Sift  together  flour,  soda  and  salt.  In  another 
aowl,  mix  eggs,  sugar,  buttermilk  and  extra  All-Bran.  Mix  all  togeth- 
er. Mixture  may  be  kept  in  refrigerator  for  up  to  2  weeks.  Bake  in 
greased  muffin  pans  at  400°.  If  desired,  add  raisins,  nuts,  etc. 

Karin  Binkley 

HONEY  BRAN  MUFFINS 

te  c.  oat  bran  1  c.  no-salt-added  buttermilk 

i  c.  boiling  water  V4  c.  honey 

*z  c.  all-purpose  flour  2  te  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil 

^c.  whole  wheat  flour  1  egg 

te  tsp.  baking  soda  te  c.  raisins  (optional) 
%  tsp.  salt 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Spray  muffin  tin  with  nonstick  cooking 
pray.  In  a  large  bowl,  stir  together  V2  cup  bran  and  water;  let  stand 
ibout  5  minutes.  In  a  small  bowl,  combine  the  remaining  bran  with 
.11-purpose  and  whole  wheat  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt.  In  another 


54389  -  93 


BREADS 

small  bowl,  combine  buttermilk,  honey,  oil  and  egg.  Add  dry  and  we 
ingredients  to  wet  bran;  stir  just  until  moistened.  Fold  in  the  raisins 
if  used.  Pour  batter  into  muffin  tins.  Bake  20  minutes  or  until  wood 
en  toothpick  inserted  in  the  center  of  muffin  comes  out  clean.  Make 
12  muffins. 

Janice  Syke 


LOW-FAT  GOLDEN  CORN  BREAD 

Va  c.  vegetable  oil  1  Tbsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  yellow  or  white  corn  meal  Ys  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

1  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  c.  skim  milk 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  2  egg  whites,  slightly  beaten 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  In  8  or  9-inch  square  baking  pan  or  10 
inch  ovenproof  skillet,  heat  oil  in  the  oven;  tilt  pan  to  coat  bottom  anc 
sides  evenly.  (Iron  skillet  is  best.)  Combine  dry  ingredients.  Adc 
heated  oil,  milk  and  egg  whites.  Mix  until  just  blended.  Pour  into  hoi 
pan.  Bake  20  to  25  minutes  or  until  golden  brown  and  wooden  pict 
inserted  in  middle  comes  out  clean. 

Jink  Collins  (Mrs.  Glenn, 


CORNY  CORN  BREAD 

1  c.  corn  meal  1  c.  cream-style  corn 

1  c.  sour  cream  (small  carton)  2  egg,  beaten 

Vz  c.  corn  oil 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Preheat  oven  to  400°  before  plac- 
ing in  oven.  Pour  ingredients  into  an  8  x  8  x  2-inch  greased  pan  and 
cook  until  lightly  brown  (about  35  to  40  minutes). 

Bertie  Mae  Russell 


ONION  CORN  BREAD 

1  large  onion,  diced  1  small  can  cream-style  corn 

1  pkg.  corn  muffin  mix  V2  c.  sour  cream 

1  egg  V2  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 

2  Tbsp.  milk 

Saute  onion  in  butter.  Mix  corn  muffin  mix,  egg,  milk  and  corn; 
pour  into  a  1  V2  quart  baking  dish.  Mix  sauteed  onion  into  sour  cream 


94 


BREADS 

and  spread  over  corn  bread  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake  at 
425°  for  35  minutes.  Makes  6  servings. 

Ruby  Petree 

SPOON  CORN  BREAD 

1  scant  c.  corn  meal  1  tsp.  salt 

3  c.  milk  3  level  Tbsp.  baking  powder 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  1  Tbsp.  butter 

In  a  saucepan,  stir  meal  into  2  cups  milk  and  let  mixture  come 
to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  makes  a  mush.  Then  add 
the  balance  of  milk,  well  beaten  eggs,  salt,  baking  powder  and  melted 
butter.  Turn  at  once  into  a  1  Vi  or  2  quart  well  greased  glass  baking 
dish.  Bake  in  400°  oven  about  30  to  35  minutes  or  until  done. 

Evelyn  Reed 

FRENCH  TOAST 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  cinnamon-sugar 
2  Tbsp.  milk  1  tsp.  margarine 

1  tsp.  sugar  4  slices  bread 

1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring  lite  maple  syrup 

In  a  flat-bottomed  bowl,  beat  eggs.  Add  milk,  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Beat  together  thoroughly.  Melt  margarine  in  a  skillet.  Coat  thor- 
oughly both  sides  of  each  slice  of  bread.  Place  coated  bread  in  a  skillet 
and  cook  approximately  4  to  5  minutes  on  each  side  with  temperature 
setting  on  medium-high.  Sprinkle  both  sides  of  toast  with  cinnamon- 
'sugar,  flipping  slices  in  the  skillet  to  melt  sugar  coating.  Serve  with 
ite  maple  syrup.  Yields  4  slices,  two  servings. 

Becky  Dawson 

FRENCH  TOAST  CASSEROLE 

I  (10  oz.)  loaf  French  bread,  cut  into  4  tsp.  sugar  and  cinnamon  to  taste 

1 -inch  slices  Vz  tsp.  salt 

I  large  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 
tc.  milk 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  bread.  Grease  9  x  13-inch  pan. 
j^lace  bread  slices  on  bottom  and  pour  egg  mixture  over  entire  casse- 
■ole.  Cover  and  set  overnight.  Remove  cover  before  baking  and  dot 


54389  -  95 


BREADS 


with  butter.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  to  50  minutes.  Serve  with  maple  syr 
up,  if  desired. 

Karin  Binkleyf 


SPECIAL  PEACH  MUFFINS 


2  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Vz  c  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Vz  tsp.  baking  soda 

Vz  tsp.  salt 

Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 


Vz  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  egg,  beaten 

Vz  c.  vegetable  oil 

Vz  c.  milk 

1  (8  oz.)  carton  peach  yogurt 

Vz  c.  finely  chopped  dried  peaches 


Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 
2  Tbsp.  soft  butter 


Topping: 

2  Tbsp.  flour 

2  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  pecans 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  baking  soda,  salt,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg  in  a  large  bowl.  Combine  egg,  oil,  milk,  yogurt  and 
dried  peaches.  Add  to  dry  ingredients,  stirring  until  just  moistened. 
Spoon  into  greased  muffin  pans,  filling  %  full. 

Topping:  Combine  flour,  brown  sugar,  pecans  and  cinnamon  in 
small  bowl.  Cut  butter  into  mixture  until  it  resembles  coarse  meal. 
Sprinkle  1  heaping  teaspoonful  over  each  muffin.  Bake  at  400°  for  20 
minutes.  Makes  1  Vz  dozen. 

Barbara  Wilkerson 


POTATO  ROLLS 


3  small  potatoes,  peeled  and 

quartered 
2  pkg.  yeast 
Vz  tsp.  honey 
1  stick  butter 
V$c,  shortening 


Vz  c.  honey 

2  eggs 

2  tsp.  salt 

6  to  7  c.  flour  (all-purpose  or  I  use 

4  Vz  c.  bread  flour  and  2  c.  whole 

wheat) 


Cook  potatoes  15  minutes  or  until  tender.  Reserve  1  cup  potato 
water.  Mash  potatoes.  Place  Vz  cup  potato  water  in  large  bowl,  sprin- 
kle yeast  over  water  and  add  Vz  teaspoon  honey.  Stir  to  dissolve  yeast. 
Let  stand  10  minutes.  Heat  butter,  shortening  and  remaining  Vz  cup 
potato  water.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Stir  butter  mixture  into  yeast  mix- 
ture with  honey,  salt,  eggs  and  mashed  potatoes.  Beat  until  blended. 


96- 


BREADS 

Vdd  2  Vz  cups  flour.  Beat  2  minutes.  Add  3  Vz  to  4  cup9  more  flour 
intil  doughy.  Knead  10  minutes.  Put  in  greased  bowl,  cover  and  let 
Ase  1  Vz  hours.  Punch  down.  Knead  some,  cut  in  half  and  let  rest  10 
ninutes.  Grease  3  cake  pans  and  divide  dough  into  36  pieces.  Shape 
■ach  piece  into  a  small  ball.  Put  12  balls  into  each  pan  (9  around  side 
ind  3  in  middle).  Let  rise  1  to  1  Vz  hours.  Bake  at  375°  for  25  minutes. 
These  are  delicious  rolls  and  since  it  makes  3  pans,  you  can  give  a  pan 
iway  or  they  freeze  wonderfully. 

Charlain  Allen 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD 

\  c.  scalded  milk  Vz  c.  honey  or  brown  sugar, 
Tbsp.  soft  shortening  or  oil  softened  by  water 

Tbsp.  salt  1  pkg.  yeast  in  1  c.  warm  water 

c.  whole  wheat  flour  2  c.  white  bread  flour 

Mix  milk,  yeast  dissolved  in  water,  honey  and  whole  wheat 
tlour.  Let  stand  in  covered  bowl  about  30  minutes.  Then  add  rest  of 
'jihe  ingredients  and  some  of  white  flour,  mixing  with  a  spoon  as  much 
:.s  possible.  Knead  5  to  10  minutes  using  as  much  flour  as  necessary 
until  dough  is  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  a  greased  bowl  and  let  rise 
Hntil  double  in  bulk.  Punch  down  and  divide;  place  in  2  greased  loaf 
>ans,  5  Vz  x  10-inches.  Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  a  350° 
Wen  about  30  to  35  minutes.  Place  brown  paper  over  the  bread  the 
ast  14  minutes. 

Evelyn  Doty 

i 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BISCUITS 

Vi  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  pkg.  yeast 

V«  c.  whole  wheat  flour  4  Tbsp.  margarine 

1  Tbsp.  sugar  %  c.  warm  water 
t  tsp.  baking  powder  %  c.  buttermilk 

2  tsp.  soda  V*  c  wheat  germ  or  use  V*  c.  All-Bran 
2  tsp.  salt  (fine) 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  margarine  with  pastry  blender. 

idd  water  and  buttermilk.   Mix  until  all  liquid  is  absorbed.   Cover 

nd  refrigerate  overnight.   Knead  dough  for  1  minute.   Roll  V2-inch 

jhick.  Cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  400°  oven  about  10  to  12 

•linutes.  Dough  may  be  stored  in  refrigerator  for  3  or  4  days. 

Evelyn  Doty 

54389  -  97  - 


BREADS 


SATURDAY  MORNING  PANCAKES 


2  c.  flour  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  2  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

1  tsp.  soda  2  c.  buttermilk 
2 Tbsp.  sugar 

Mix  dry  ingredients.    Add  eggs,  buttermilk  and  butter  and 
mix  well. 

Barbara  Wilkerson 


SOURDOUGH  BREAD  FEEDER 

2h  c.  sugar  1  c.  warm  water 

3  Tbsp.  instant  potatoes 

Put  starter  in  refrigerator  3  to  5  days.  Take  out,  feed  with  the 
listed  ingredients.  Mix  well,  add  to  starter.  Let  stand  out  of  refrigera- 
tor all  day.  Mixture  will  be  bubbly.  Takeout  1  cup  to  make  bread  and 
return  to  refrigerator.  Keep  in  refrigerator  3  to  5  days  and  feed 
again.  If  not  making  bread,  after  feeding,  give  or  throw  away  1  cup. 
This  avoids  deflating  your  starter. 

Susie  Whitt 


SOURDOUGH  BREAD 

V3  c.  sugar  1  c.  starter 

Yz  c.  oil  1  V2  c.  warm  water 

1  tsp.  salt  6  c.  Pillsbury  bread  flour 

In  a  large  bowl,  make  a  stiff  batter  of  the  ingredients.  Grease 
another  bowl.  Put  dough  in  and  turn  over  (oily  side  up).  Cover.  Let 
stand  overnight  (do  not  refrigerate).  Next  morning,  punch  down  and 
knead.  Divide  into  3  or  4  equal  parts  and  knead  each  on  floured  sur- 
face 8  to  10  times.  Put  into  greased  pans  and  brush  with  oil.  Let  rise 
4  to  5  hours.  All  day  is  okay.  Cover.  Bake  uncovered  at  350°  for  30  to 
45  minutes.  Remove  and  brush  with  butter.  Cool  on  rack.  Wrap  well 
and  store.  Refrigerate.  Bread  freezes  well.  Keep  bread  in  refrigera- 
tor because  it  is  sourdough. 

Susie  Whitt 


-98- 


D 


BREADS 

SAINT  JOSEPH'S  BREAD 

te  c.  warm  water  (110°  to  1 15")  2  tsp.  salt 

pkg.  active  dry  yeast  4  to  4  Vfe  c.  ail-purpose  flour 

Tbsp.  shortening  1  beaten  egg 

Tbsp.  sugar  Vac.  sesame  seed 

Tbsp.  olive  or  cooking  oil 

In  small  bowl  combine  the  warm  water,  yeast,  shortening,  sug- 
r,  oil  and  salt.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Place  2  V2  cups  of  flour  in  large 

'nixer  bowl;  add  liquid  mixture.  Beat  on  low  speed  of  electric  mixer 
r  stir  by  hand  until  all  ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended.  Stir  in 
3  much  of  the  remaining  flour  as  you  can  mix  in  with  a  spoon.  Turn 

:  nt  on  a  lightly  floured  surface.  Knead  in  enough  of  the  remaining 

our  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough  that  is  smooth  and  elastic  (6  to 

minutes  total).   Shape  into  a  ball.   Place  in  lightly  greased  bowl; 

lrn  once  to  grease  surface.  Cover;  let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double 

\5  to  60  minutes). 

Punch  down,  divide  dough  into  six  equal  pieces.  Cover;  let  rise 
3  minutes.   Roll  each  piece  into  a  12-inch  long  rope.   Using  three 

fppes  for  each  loaf,  braid  and  secure  ends.  Place  on  greased  baking 

"leets.  Cover;  let  rise  until  nearly  double  (30  to  45  minutes).  Brush 
!des  and  tops  of  loaves  with  beaten  egg.  Sprinkle  with  sesame  seed, 
ake  in  400°  oven  for  25  minutes  or  until  bread  tests  done  and  is  gold- 
1  brown.  Remove  bread  from  baking  sheets;  cool  on  wire  rack, 
iakes  2  braids.  To  braid  the  dough,  begin  in  the  middle  of  the  ropes 
id  work  toward  the  ends.  Braid  loosely  to  allow  the  dough  to 
[pand. 

Evelyn  Reed 

I  CARDAMON  BREAD 

okg.  dry  yeast  1  egg 

lc.  warm  water  6  c.  straight  flour 

c.  melted  butter  melted  butter 

ice.  sugar  cinnamon 

:sp.  cardamon  sugar 

tsp.  salt 

Combine  yeast,  water,  butter,  sugar,  cardamon,  salt  and  egg  in 

mixing  bowl.  Add  flour.   Let  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  in 

i  ze.  Work  dough  down  and  divide  into  6  even  balls  which  are  to  be 

riled  into  ropes.   Braid  the  ropes  into  2  loaves.   Brush  loaves  well 

1389  -  99  - 


BREADS 

with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Let  rise 
until  double  in  size.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  30  minutes  or  until  brown 
and  tests  done. 

Evelyn  Reed 


ZUCCHINI  BREAD 


3  eggs 
2  c,  sugar 

1  c.  cooking  oil 

2  c.  grated  zucchini 

2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

3  c.  sifted  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 


3  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 
Vfe  c.  raisins 


Beat  together  eggs,  sugar  and  oil.   Add  zucchini  and  vanilla 
Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  salt  and  baking  soda 
Add  to  zucchini  mixture.  Fold  in  pecans,  pineapple  and  raisins.  Pour 
into  two  9  x  5-inch  greased  and  floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  325°  for  1 
hour.  Can  be  frozen  after  baking. 

Bonny  McNally 
BROCCOLI  BREAD 


1  pkg.  frozen  chopped  broccoli, 

cooked 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 
1  c.  cottage  cheese 


4  eggs,  beaten 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  small  box  Jiffy  corn  muffin  mix 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 


Cook  onion  in  with  broccoli;  drain  and  add  margarine,  cheese, 
egg  and  muffin  mix  and  salt,  if  desired.  Bake  in  9  x  9  x  2-inch  pan  forfi; 
about  35  to  40  minutes  or  until  light  brown  at  350°.  Serves  8  to  10 

Peggy  H.  Bowles  ■ 


BANANA  NUT  BREAD 


1  %c.  sugar 

2  sticks  butter  (at  room 
temperature) 

2  eggs,  beaten  (at  room 

temperature) 
8  medium  ripe  bananas,  mashed 


3  c.  self-rising  flour 
Yz  c.  milk 

%c.  pecans,  chopped 
1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 
Vfe  c.  Crisco  or  Puritan 


E! 


-100- 


BREADS 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  until  fluffy ;  add  eggs  and  bananas.  Mix 

p  flour  and  milk;  add  nuts  and  vanilla.   Add  oil  last.    Pour  into 

reased  and  floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  to  35  minutes  or 

ntil  golden  brown.  Yields  2  regular  or  3  small  loaves. 
I 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 

> 

SESAME  CHEESE  MUFFINS 

2  c.  chopped  onion  1  egg 

iTbsp.  butter  tec.  milk 

te  c.  biscuit  mix  1  Tbsp.  toasted  sesame  seed 

c.  shredded  cheese  1  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

Saute  onion  in  1  tablespoon  butter  until  tender.  Combine 
nion,  biscuit  mix  and  Vz  cup  cheese  in  bowl.  Combine  egg  and  milk; 
dd  to  biscuit  mixture,  stirring  just  until  moistened.  Spoon  into 
'Teased  muffin  pans,  filling  %  full.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese 
nd  sesame  seed;  drizzle  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Bake  at  400°  for 
5  minutes. 

Penny  Petree  Goode 

ORANGE  MUFFINS 


i  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

jice  of  1  orange  (about  te  c.)  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  butter  (room  temperature)  1  tsp.  grated  orange  rind 

!C  sugar  tec.  raisins 

i  c.  sour  cream  te  c.  chopped  nuts 

c.  sifted  flour  (measure  after 

sifting) 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Mix  together  sugar  and  orange  juice.  Set 
c  side  for  dipping  after  muffins  are  cooked.  Grease  miniature  muffin 
rains  well  and  set  aside.    Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  until 
smooth.  In  separate  bowl,  mix  together  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt, 
idd  sour  cream  to  butter-sugar  mixture  alternately  with  dry  ingredi- 
nts,  stirring  just  until  mixed.   Bake  at  375°  for  12  to  15  minutes, 
iemove  muffins  from  pans  and  while  warm,  dip  them  into  the  sugar- 
range  mixture.    Cool  muffins  on  wire  rack.   Makes  36  miniature 
duffins  or  18  regular  muffins. 

Note:  No  liquid  as  such,  but  it's  correct.  One  addition,  I  like  to 
dd  any  extra  rind  to  the  dipping  mixture. 

Pam  Southerland 

54389  -  101  - 


\ 


BREADS 

"BOJANGLE"  BISCUITS 

2  c.  self-rising  flour  1  c.  buttermilk 

2  tsp.  powdered  sugar  Vfe  c.  Crisco  shortening 

2  tsp.  double-acting  baking  powder 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  Crisco.  Mix  until  little 
balls  appear  like  cornbread.  Add  buttermilk  and  stir  quickly  until 
mix  does  not  stick  to  the  side  of  the  bowl.  Turn  out  on  floured  cloth 
or  board.  Roll  dough  over  and  over  for  5  minutes,  pushing  bal 
around  and  around  by  hand.  Roll  out  lightly  with  rolling  pin 
until  y2-inch  thick.  Cut  with  3-inch  cutter  and  place  on  greased  bak 
ing  pan.  Bake  10  to  15  minutes  at  400°. 

Optional:  Dip  in  real  butter  before  baking  for  most  delicious  J 
flavor. 

Gail  Skidmore 

i 

BLUE  RIBBON  WHOLE  GRAIN  BREAD 

1  pkg.  yeast  V^c.  bran 

1  tsp.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  molasses 

3  Tbsp.  butter  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  bread  flour  1  Tbsp.  raw  wheat  germ 
1  c.  whole  wheat  flour 

Add  yeast  and  sugar  to  Va  cup  warm  water.  Mix  and  set  aside 
Add  butter  to  1  cup  warm  water.  Mix  and  set  aside.  Combine  bread 
flour,  whole  wheat,  wheat  germ,  bran  and  salt.  Add  yeast  and  butter 
mixtures  to  flour  mixture.  Knead  10  minutes  or  so.  Form  into  a  ball. 
Let  rise  until  double,  about  1  hour,  covered.  Punch  down  the  dough 
and  roll  it  into  a  rectangle  with  a  rolling  pin.  Roll  bread  up  (jelly  roll 
style)  and  place  in  a  greased/floured  pan  with  the  seam  facing  down 
and  ends  tucked  under.  Cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double.  Bake 
20  minutes  at  425°. 

Bill  Leonard 


SWEET  POTATO  BREAD 

2  c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes  2  tsp.  nutmeg 

3  c.  sugar  V?.  tsp.  cloves 

4  eggs  2  tsp.  soda 
1  c.  oil  1  tsp.  salt 
2h  c.  water  1  c.  raisins 

3  V2  c.  flour  1  c.  chopped  nuts 
3  tsp.  cinnamon 


102 


BREADS 

Boil  and  whip  sweet  potatoes  ahead  or  use  canned  potatoes. 
Cream  sugar,  eggs  and  oil.  Add  water  to  dry  ingredients  in  separate 
bowl.  Gradually  add  to  sugar  mixture.  Blend  in  sweet  potatoes.  Fold 
in  nuts  and  raisins.  Grease  and  flour  two  loaf  pans.  Fill  pans  %  full. 
Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Yields  30  to  40  slices. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 

j 

BREAKAWAY  VEGGIE  BREAD 

! 

)  (10  oz.  each)  cans  refrigerated  1  small  onion,  chopped 

buttermilk  biscuits  Vz  lb.  bacon,  cooked  and  crumbled 

k  c.  margarine,  melted  1  small  green  pepper,  chopped 
h.  c.  (2  oz.)  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Cut  biscuits  into  quarters  with  kitchen  shears.  Dip  each  piece 
n  the  melted  margarine  and  layer  V3  in  a  lightly  greased  10-inch 
3undt  pan.  Sprinkle  with  V2  of  bacon,  cheese,  onion  and  green  pep- 
)er.  Repeat  layers.  Bake  at  350°  for  40  to  45  minutes.  Invert  on  plate 
or  serving. 

Patti  Petree 


-•  EXTRA  RECIPES  •- 


■4389  -103 


BREADS 

-•  YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES  •- 
Recipe  Page  Number 


104 


CANDLE  SERVICE 


In  December  1747,  John  von  Watteville  held 

/  a  watch   service  for  children   in   Marienbom, 

Germany.     During  this  service,  he  told  of  the 

inexpressible  blessedness  which  came  through 

the  birth  of  Jesus';  among  other  things  that  by 

His  wounds  and  pierced  side,  He  had  lighted  a 

blood-red  flame  in  every  heart,  which  would 

burn  forever  to  His  joy  and  our  salvation.    As  a 

reminder  of  this,  he  gave  each  child  a  burning 

taper  tied  with  a  small  red  ribbon. 

This  custom  quickly  became  a  tradition  in  the  Moravian 

Church.   Eventually  this  became  part  of  the  adult  Christmas 

Eve  lovefeast. 

Beeswax  and  beef  tallow  are  used  to  make  the 
candles.  The  candles  are  made  by  hand  in  tin  molds  by 
the  non-denominational  Mary  Ann  Fogle  Service  League. 
They  annually  make  forty  thousand  lovefeast  candles.  The 
candles  are  trimmed  in  nonflammable  crepe  paper.  This  is 
not  only  decorative,  but  protects  one's  hand  from  dripping 
hot  beeswax. 

The  candles  of  today  are  still  symbolic  of  Christ  as  the 
light  of  the  world  and  of  a  Christian's  witness  to  follow  Him 
as  that  light. 


THE  ADVENT  WREATH 

The  Advent  Wreath  is  a  circular  wreath  of  greenery 
which  speaks  of  God's  never  ending  love  and  care  for  His 
own  and  of  the  life  He  brings  to  all.  The  wreath  is  topped 
with  four  candles,  one  lighted  for  each  Sunday  in  Advent. 
These  candles  symbolize  (1st  Sunday)  our  preparing  for 
the  Messiah's  birth,  (2nd  Sunday)  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
in  glory,  (3rd  Sunday)  the  sharing  of  Christ's  love  with  all 
the  world,  and  (4th  Sunday)  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy 
that  are  now  at  hand. 


1543-9 


DESSERTS 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes  1  V2  c.  sugar 

stick  margarine,  melted  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

eggs,  well  beaten  1  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 

large  can  milk  2  unbaked  pie  shells 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  2  unbaked  pie  shells.  Bake  at 
75°  for  15  minutes,  then  finish  baking  at  350°. 

Virginia  Crater 


"MAVAREEN'S"  RAW  SLICED  SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

large  sweet  potatoes  Yz  tsp.  cinnamon 

c. sugar  Vi  tsp.  salt 

c.  flour  Yz  tsp.  margarine 

I  tsp.  ginger  Vi  c.  evaporated  milk 

I  tsp.  nutmeg  Vi  c.  water 

Peel  and  slice  sweet  potatoes  fairly  thin.  Heap  in  unbaked  pie 
*ust.  Combine  sugar,  flour,  ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  salt;  mix 
ell.  Sprinkle  over  sliced  potatoes.  Mix  milk  with  water.  Pour  over 
iie;  dot  with  margarine.  Bake  10  minutes  at  450°,  reduce  heat  to  350° 
ad  bake  for  40  minutes.  I  like  strips  on  top. 

Margie  Peterson 


FUDGE  PIE 

sq.  chocolate  Vic.  flour,  sifted 

stick  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla 

eggs  Yz  c.  nuts 
c.  sugar 

Melt  2  squares  chocolate  with  butter.  Beat  eggs  with  sugar, 
dd  flour  to  egg  and  sugar  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and  combine  with 
utter  and  chocolate.  Add  nuts.  Pour  into  buttered  pie  plate.  Bake 
t  350°  for  about  25  minutes.  Top  with  Cool  Whip  or  ice  cream, 
erves  6. 

Frances  Pleasants 


4389  -  105  - 


DESSERTS 


TOLL  HOUSE  PIE 


2  eggs 

Vz  c.  all-purpose  flour 
Vz  c.  sugar 

Vz  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 
1  c.  butter,  melted  and  cooled  to 
room  temperature 


1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  (1  c.)  Nestle  Toll 
House  semi-sweet  chocolate 
morsels 
1  c.  chopped  walnuts 
1  (9-inch)  pie  shell,  unbaked 
whipped  cream  or  ice  cream 
(optional) 


Preheat  oven  to  325°.  In  a  large  bowl,  beat  eggs  until  foam) 
Add  flour,  sugar  and  brown  sugar.  Beat  until  well  blended.  Blend  ii 
melted  butter.  Stir  in  chocolate  morsels  and  walnuts.  Pour  into  pi 
shell.  Bake  at  325°  about  1  hour.  Remove  from  oven.  Serve  ware 
with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream.  Makes  one  9-inch  pie.  Recipe  ma 
be  doubled.  Bake  2  pies;  freeze  one  for  later  use. 

Delia  Matthew 


CHOCOLATE-PEANUT  BUTTER  PIE 

1  Vz  c.  Oreo  cookie  crumbs  Vz  c.  butter 


Filling: 

6  oz.  cream  cheese 
%c.  crunchy  peanut  butter 
1  c.  confectioners  sugar 
Vic.  chocolate  syrup 


Vic.  milk 

Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

1  Vz  c.  whipped  cream 


Blend  together  cookie  crumbs  and  butter  and  press  in  a  9-incl 
pan.  Bake  for  10  minutes  at  350°  and  let  cool. 

Filling:  Blend  together  cream  cheese,  peanut  butter  and  sugar 
Add  chocolate  syrup,  milk,  vanilla  and  whipped  cream.  Blend  al 
together,  pour  into  the  crust  and  let  cool.  Drizzle  chocolate  syrup  an< 
chopped  peanuts  over  the  top.  Freeze  until  the  pie  is  set.  This  pie  wil; 
keep  well  in  the  freezer. 

Pamela  Robbim 


CHOCOLATE  PECAN  PIE 


3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
1  c.  Karo  syrup 

4  oz.  Baker's  German's  sweet 
chocolate,  melted  and  cooled 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 


Vz  c.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

1  Vz  c.  pecan  halves 

1  unbaked  9-inch  pie  shell 


106- 


DESSERTS 

Heat  oven  to  350°.  In  a  large  bowl,  stir  eggs,  Karo  syrup,  choco- 
late, sugar,  butter  and  vanilla  until  well  blended.  Stir  in  pecans. 
Pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  50  to  60  minutes  until  knife  inserted  comes 
out  clean.  Cool  on  wire  rack.  Serves  8. 

Margie  Peterson 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1/2  stick  margarine  1  large  can  evaporated  milk  plus 
2  c.  sugar  enough  low-fat  milk  to  make  2  c. 

6  Tbsp.  cocoa  2  uncooked  9-inch  pie  shells 

4  eggs  Cool  Whip  (optional) 


1  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  and  add  melted  margarine.  Add  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Add  milk  and  beat  again, 
then  add  vanilla  and  beat  more.  Pour  into  2  uncooked  9-inch  pie 
shells  and  bake  at  350°  for  approximately  45  to  50  minutes.  Pour 
Cool  Whip  on  top,  if  desired. 

Janice  Sykes 

PLANTERS  BROWNIE  FUDGE  PIE 

2  %  c.  Planters  pecan  halves  or  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
walnuts                                                  Vz  c.  unsweetened  cocoa 

14  oz.  can  sweetened  condensed  3  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 

milk  9-inch  unbaked  pie  shell 

Va  c.  Blue  Bonnet  margarine  whipped  cream  for  garnish 

3  eggs,  beaten 

Coarsely  chop  1  V2  cup  of  nuts.  In  medium  saucepan,  over  low 
\  heat,  stir  condensed  milk,  margarine  and  cocoa  until  margarine 
f  melts  and  mixture  is  warm;  remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  eggs,  vanilla 
j  and  chopped  nuts;  pour  into  prepared  crust.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  min- 
utes or  until  center  is  firm.    Serve  warm  or  cold.    Garnish  with 
whipped  cream  and  remaining  nuts. 

Evelyn  Reed 

MOUNTAIN  PIE 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine  %c.  milk 

1  pt.  berries  or  any  kind  of  fruit  1  tsp.  vanilla  or  flavoring  of  your 

^4  c.  sugar  choice 

%c.  self-rising  flour 

154389  -107- 


DESSERTS 

Place  stick  of  butter  or  margarine  into  a  casserole  type  baking 
dish.  Place  in  oven.  Turn  oven  to  375°  and  leave  butter  until  melted. 
Remove  dish  from  oven.  Add  fruit  or  berries  to  melted  butter.  Com- 
bine sugar,  flour,  milk  and  vanilla;  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  over  ber- 
ries or  fruit.  Bake  at  375°  for  35  minutes  or  until  done.  Serve  warm 
with  ice  cream  or  chilled  boiled  custard. 

Laura  Thorpe 

MILLION  DOLLAR  PIE 

1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk  16  to  1  c.  crushed  pecans 

Vz  c.  lemon  juice  (bottled  lemon  1  large  carton  whipped  topping 

juice  is  o.k.)  2  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 

1  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

Mix  milk  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  in  pineapple.  Fold  in  whipped) 
topping;  add  pecans.  Mix  well.  Put  in  pie  shells.  Sprinkle  a  few 
pecans  on  top.  Chill  one  hour.  Freezes  well. 

Grace  Thorpe 

PEACH   PIE 

4  c.  fresh  peaches  Vb  tsp.  nutmeg 

Vz  to  %  c.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Va  c.  flour  1  (9-inch)  unbaked  pie  shell 

Yz  tsp.  cinnamon 

Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over  peaches.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg.  Add  to  peaches;  mix  well.  Put  into  pastry  lined  9-inch 
pie  pan.  Cover  with  crumb  crust.  Bake  40  minutes  at  400°. 

Crumb  Crust: 

Vi  c.  sugar  16  c.  margarine 

%c.  flour 

Mix  well.  Spread  evenly  over  pie. 

Margaret  Bowles 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE 

26c.  sugar  1  c.  half  and  half  milk 

dash  of  salt  2  Tbsp.  butter 

V4  c.  cornstarch  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

3  egg  yolks  2  ripe  bananas,  sliced  thin 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  1  baked  9-inch  pie  shell 


-108 


DESSERTS 

Meringue: 

Vz  c.  sugar,  divided  Vz  c.  water 

1  Tbsp.  cornstarch  3  egg  whites 

Vfetsp.  salt  V2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Combine  sugar,  salt  and  cornstarch  in  a  heavy  saucepan.  Beat 
*  egg  yolks  and  half  and  half  at  medium  speed  of  an  electric  mixer;  add 
i  to  sugar  mixture.   Pour  hot  milk  slowly  over  egg  mixture,  stirring 
i  constantly.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  thick- 
ened. Remove  from  heat;  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Pour  Vz  of  mixture 
into  baked  pie  shell  and  layer  with  banana  slices.  Repeat  layers,  end- 
ing with  filling.  Cover  with  wax  paper  and  set  aside. 

Meringue:  Combine  Va  cup  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  in  a  sauce- 

pan;  stirring  constantly,  add  water  and  cook  over  medium  heat  until 

mixture  comes  to  a  boil.   Boil  1  minute;  cool  completely.   Beat  egg 

whites  (at  room  temperature)  at  high  speed  of  an  electric  mixer  until 

foamy.  Gradually  add  remaining  Va  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  at  a  time, 

I  beating  until  soft  peaks  form.  Add  vanilla  and  cornstarch  mixture; 

beat  until  stiff  peaks  form.   Remove  wax  paper  from  filling;  spread 

I  meringue  over  filling,  sealing  to  edge  of  pastry.  Bake  at  350°  for  12  to 

115  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Cool  completely  before  serving. 

Refrigerate. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 


BLENDER  LEMON  PIE 

1  stick  butter  1  lemon,  quartered  (use  rind  and  all) 

2  c.  sugar  2  unbaked  pie  shells 
4  eggs 

Put  eggs  in  blender  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  sugar  and  lemon. 
Beat  or  blend  again.  Add  butter.  Pour  into  2  pie  shells  and  bake  for 
;25  to  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Ruby  Petree 


LEMON   ICEBOX  PIE 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  Vi>  c.  ReaLemon  juice 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  1  graham  cracker  crust 


154389  -109 


DESSERTS 


Blend  egg  yolks  and  milk;  add  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  grahair 
cracker  crust.  Beat  2  egg  whites,  spread  on  top  and  bake  until  browr 
at  350°. 

Virginia  Crate 


PINEAPPLE  ICEBOX  PIE 

1  can  crushed  pineapple  (1  !b.  4  Vz  1  box  lemon  jello 

oz.  can)  1  large  can  Carnation  milk 

2  eggs  enough  vanilla  wafer  crumbs  to  line 
1  c.  sugar  2  (9-inch)  pie  pans 

Put  juice,  sugar  and  eggs  in  saucepan.  Let  come  to  boiling 
point;  add  jello.  Let  cool.  Whip  large  can  of  milk  which  has  beer 
chilled.  Add  to  first  mixture.  Fold  in  lightly.  Line  two  9-inch  pi< 
pans  with  crushed  vanilla  wafers  and  add  mixture.  Put  in  icebo? 
until  congealed. 

Laura  Thorpt 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Vz  c.  butter  1  (8  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  1  unbaked  pie  shell 

2  eggs 

Cream  butter  with  powdered  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks,  beaten  anc 
pineapple,  drained.  Mix  well.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Place  ir 
pastry  lined  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  30  minutes. 

Margaret  Bowie*. 


LIME  PIE 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  condensed  milk  1  (9-inch)  graham  cracker  pie  shell 

1  can  frozen  limeade  1  to  2  drops  green  food  coloring 

1  large  Cool  Whip  Va  c.  grated  chocolate 

Mix  partially  melted  lime  juice  with  condensed  milk.  Add  Coo 
Whip  and  food  coloring  to  suit.  Put  in  pie  shell,  add  chocolate  trin 
and  refrigerate. 

Becky  Dawsor 


110- 


DESSERTS 


1  c.  sugar 

1  stick  butter,  melted  and  blended 
,i    with  sugar 

2  eggs 
dash  of  salt 


JAPANESE   FRUIT  PIE 


V20.  raisins 

V2  c.  pecans,  chopped 

Vi  c.  coconut 

1  Tbsp.  vinegar 

1  unbaked  pie  shell 


Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  375°  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Roberta  Franklin 


SOUR  CREAM  RAISIN  PIE 


1  c.  light  raisins 
1  c.  sugar 
1  egg,  beaten 
1  c,  sour  cream 


pinch  of  salt 

V2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (9-inch)  unbaked  pie  shell 


Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  beat  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add 
cream,  raisins,  salt  and  vanilla.  Blend.  Pour  into  9-inch  unbaked  pie 
crust.  Bake  at  400°  for  10  minutes,  then  at  350°  for  25  to  30  minutes. 
Test  as  for  custard  pie.  If  knife  blade  comes  out  clean  from  center  of 
pie,  it  is  done.  If  you  want  to  make  it  even  more  luscious,  you  can 
sprinkle  walnuts  or  pecans  over  top  before  baking.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Ruby  Petree 


SOUR  CREAM  AND  APPLE  PIE 


1  c.  sour  cream 
%c.  sugar 
J2  Tbsp.  flour 
Votsp.  salt 

i 

Topping: 

\>h  c.  brown  sugar 
ft  c.  flour 


1  tsp.  vanilla 

iegg 

2  c.  apples  or  1  can  pie  slices 
1  unbaked  pie  shell 


Vic.  butter 


Beat  sour  cream,  sugar,  flour,  salt,  vanilla  and  egg.  Add  apples. 
Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.    Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes.    Mix 
together  brown  sugar,  flour  and  butter.    Sprinkle  over  top  of  pie. 
Bake  20  minutes  more. 


Diana  Davis 


154389 


111- 


DESSERTS 


PENN  DUTCH  APPLE  PIE  WITH  CRUST 


Crust: 

1  Vz  c.  flour 
1 te  tsp.  sugar 
Vz  tsp.  salt 

Filling: 

apples 
1  Tbsp.  flour 
1  Tbsp  sugar 
brown  sugar 


Vz  c.  vegetable  oil 
2  Tbsp.  milk 


granulated  sugar 

cinnamon 

butter 


Mix  crust  ingredients  in  pie  tin  with  hands  or  fork;  pat  firmly 
Quarter  and  peel  apples.  Place  1  tablespoon  flour  and  1  tablespoor 
sugar  on  bottom  of  pie  shell.  Put  apples  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  browr 
sugar,  granulated  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Place  pats  of  butter  on  top 
Bake  at  375°  until  apples  are  tender  and  brown. 

Pam  Southerlanc 

FLUFFY  PEANUT  BUTTER   PSE 


1  chocolate  crust 

8  oz.  pkg,  cream  cheese,  softened 

14  oz.  can  sweetened  condensed 

milk 
%  c.  creamy  peanut  butter 
3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Chocolate  Crust: 

Vz  c.  melted  butter 
S  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate 
chips 


1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  whipped  cream  or  4  oz.  Cool 


1  to  2  tsp.  Hershey's  chocolate 
syrup 


2  Vz  c.  Rice  Krispies 


To  make  the  pie  filling,  in  a  large  bowl,  beat  the  cream  cheese 
until  fluffy.  Beat  in  the  milk  and  peanut  butter  until  smooth.  Stir  in 
the  lemon  juice  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  whipped  cream  and  pour  into 
the  crust.  Drizzle  with  chocolate  syrup  and  refrigerate  for  4  hours. 
To  make  the  crust,  melt  butter  in  a  medium-sized  pan.  Add  chocolate 
chips  and  stir  over  low  heat  until  smooth  and  completely  melted. 
Remove  from  the  heat.  Add  Rice  Krispies  and  stir  well.  Press  mix- 
ture into  a  9-inch  pie  plate.  Chill  30  minutes. 

Delia  Matthews 


112 


DESSERTS 

LIGHT  AND  CREAMY  PUMPKIN  PIE 

i 

I  pkg.  butterscotch  pudding  1  envelope  plain  gelatin 

^c.  sugar  Vic.  water 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  1  c.  cooked  pumpkin 
&tsp.  allspice  Vfe  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

2  c.  milk  2  egg  whites 
2  egg  yolks 

Mix  pudding,  sugar,  cinnamon,  allspice,  milk  and  eggyolks  and 
cook  over  medium  heat  until  thick.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  1 
envelope  plain  gelatin  which  has  been  softened  in  V\  cup  water.  Add 
1  cup  cooked  pumpkin.  Mix  well.  Beat  cream  of  tartar  with  egg 
-whites  until  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Fold  into  butterscotch-pumpkin  mix- 
ture. Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Chill.  Garnish  with  whipped 
cream. 

Roberta  Franklin 


MAGIC  PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  (9-inch)  pie  shell,  unbaked  1  Vs  c.  (15  oz.  can)  Eagle  Brand 

2  c.  (16  to  17  oz.  can)  canned  sweetened  condensed  milk 
pumpkin                                                 1  egg 

Yz  tsp.  each  salt,  nutmeg  and  ginger  %  tsp.  cinnamon 

In  a  large-sized  mixing  bowl,  blend  together  all  ingredients. 
Turn  the  mixture  into  a  pie  shell  and  bake  at  375°  until  a  sharp- 
bladed  knife  inserted  near  the  center  comes  out  clean,  approximately 
50  to  55  minutes.  Cool.  Refrigerate  for  at  least  1  hour. 

Delia  Matthews 


FROZEN  LEMON  CREAM  PIE 


i  1  (9-inch)  graham  cracker  crumb 

crust 
<  3  eggs,  separated 

1/2C.  plus  2  Tbsp.  sugar 

Vac.  lemon  juice 
1  c.  (V2  pt.)  whipping  cream, 
whipped 

s        Sauce: 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  red 

I     raspberries 

Vic.  red  currant  jelly 
1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

154389 

-lie 

t- 

DESSERTS 

In  large  bowl,  beat  egg  yolks  and  V2  cup  sugar  until  light.  Add 
lemon  juice.  In  small  bowl,  beat  egg  whites  to  soft  peaks;  gradually 
add  remaining  sugar.  Beat  to  stiff  peaks.  Fold  egg  whites  into  lemon 
mixture,  gradually  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Spoon  into  crust.  Freeze 
3  hours  or  until  firm.  Serve  into  Raspberry  Sauce: 

Raspberry  Sauce:  Reserve  %  cup  syrup  from  the  10  ounce  pack 
age  thawed,  frozen  red  raspberries.    In  small  saucepan,  combine 
syrup,  V-i  cup  currant  jelly  and  1  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Cook  and  stir 
until  slightly  thickened  and  clear.  Cool.  Add  raspberries. 

Rosemary  Worley 

AMAZING  COCONUT  PIE 

2  c.  milk  4  eggs 

Vz  c,  biscuit  mix  1  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Va  c.  butter  or  margarine  1  c.  Angel  Flake  coconut 

¥4 c.  sugar 

Combine  milk,  sugar,  biscuit  mix,  eggs,  butter  and  vanilla  in 
electric  blender  container.  Cover  and  blend  on  low  speed  for  3  min 
utes.  Pour  into  a  greased  9-inch  pie  pan.  Let  stand  about  5  minutes, 
then  sprinkle  with  coconut.    Bake  at  350°  for  40  minutes.    Serve 
warm  or  cool. 


: 


Margaret  Bowles 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIE 


2  eggs,  well  beaten  %  c.  milk 

2  Tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  Tbsp.  butter  1  unbaked  pie  shell 
2  c.  brown  sugar  %  c.  pecans  (optional) 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  eggs,  milk,  melted  butter 
and  flavoring.  Put  on  stove  and  let  start  to  thicken.  Pour  into 
unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  30  minutes. 

Note:  Three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  pecans  could  be  added,  if 
desired. 

Margaret  Bowles 

RHUBARB  PIE 

2  to  3  c.  rhubarb  1  drop  almond  flavoring 

1  c.  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

2  Tbsp.  flour  1  unbaked  pie  shell  and  top  crust 

-114- 


DESSERTS 

Cut  rhubarb  in  one-inch  pieces  and  let  stand  in  sugar  30  min- 
utes. Mix  all  of  the  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  pie  shell  and  dot 
vith  butter  or  margarine,  then  put  on  top  crust.  Bake  at  450°  for  10 
ninutes,  then  lower  oven  temperature  to  350°  and  bake  30  minutes 
onger. 

Laura  Thorpe 

PIE  CRUST 

(To  Freeze) 

i  lb.  flour  2  lb.  can  Crisco 

4  c  salt  3  Vi  to  4  V2  c.  cold  water 


Stir  flour  and  salt  together.  Mix  in  Crisco  until  crumbly  (I  use 
ny  hands).  Add  water  until  dough  goes  gooshy-gooshy  as  you  mix. 
Vlake  into  balls  enough  for  1  crust,  place  in  sandwich  bag,  then  in 
reezer  bag.  Thaw  to  room  temperature.  Use  for  chicken  pie,  quiche 
ind  fruit  pie.  Makes  about  10  double  crusts.  Keeps  months. 

Pam  Southerland 

i 

i  SINGLE  CRUST  9-INCH  PIE 

£c.  Crisco  Vfe  tsp.  salt 

«l  Vz  c.  sifted  flour  3  Tbsp.  water 

Mix  flour  and  salt  in  a  bowl.  Take  out  V*  cup  flour.  Cut  Crisco 
with  knives,  fork  or  blender)  into  remaining  flour  until  the  pieces 
ire  the  size  of  small  peas.  Mix  3  tablespoons  water  with  the  V\  cup 
lour  to  form  paste.  Add  to  Crisco-flour  mixture.  Mix  and  shape  into 
i  ball.  Place  on  board  and  roll  in  short,  light  strokes  from  the  center 
,o  the  edges,  keeping  it  circular  in  shape.  Place  in  9-inch  pie  plate. 

Margaret  Bowles 

j 

|  TARTS 

Crust: 

'I  large  pkg,  cream  cheese  2  c.  plain  flour 

I  stick  butter  or  margarine 

Filling: 

I  stick  margarine  1  c.  nuts 

I  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

I  c.  raisins  2  eggs,  separated 

.54369  -115- 


x 


DESSERTS 

For  Crust:  Cream  the  cheese  and  butter.   Add  flour  and  mi 
well.  Press  into  small  muffin  tins. 

For  Filling:  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Set  aside.  Mix  all  other 
ingredients,  including  the  egg  yolks.  Fold  beaten  egg  whites  into 
mixture.  Spoon  mixture  into  uncooked  crusts.  Bake  in  320°  oven  for 
25  minutes.  These  freeze  well. 

Rosemary  Worley 

CHESS  TARTS 

1  egg  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  light  brown  sugar  1  Tbsp.  softened  butter 

1  Tbsp.  flour  unbaked  tart  shells 
1  Tbsp.  milk 


Beat  egg,   add   sugar,   then   other   ingredients.    Spoon   intc 
unbaked  tart  shells.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes. 


Ruby  Petree's 
Mother-in-Law's  recipe 


PECAN  TARTS 


4  eggs  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  Vz  c.  light  Karo  syrup  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  Vs  c.  sugar  16  tart  shells 

2  Tbsp.  plus  2  tsp.  melted  margarine 

Mix  eggs,  syrup,  sugar,  margarine  and  vanilla  until  wel'i 
blended.  Add  chopped  pecans.  Pour  mixture  into  tart  shells  anc 
bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes.  Makes  16  tarts. 

Evelyn  Whit 

DATE  PINEAPPLE  ICEBOX  CAKE 

7  oz.  pkg.  graham  crackers  1  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  stick  margarine  or  butter  Vz  c.  sugar 

1  c.  chopped  pecans  1  c.  dates,  chopped 

Line  buttered  pan  with  Yz  of  crumbs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
Add  pineapple,  nuts  and  dates.  Spread  over  crumbs.  Put  remaining 
crumbs  on  top  and  pat  down.  Put  in  refrigerator.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  topped  with  a  cherry.  Serves  9.  This  will  last  for  days 
if  kept  in  refrigerator. 

Treva  Swain 


116 


DESSERTS 


PANTS  DELICIOUS  CARROT  CAKE 


2  c.  flour 

2  c.  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 


1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  Mazoia  oil 

4  eggs 

3  c.  grated  carrots 


Icing: 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  stick  butter 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar 


2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  chopped  nuts 


Mix  all  together  and  put  into  a  greased  sheet  cake  pan.  Bake  at 
350°  for  approximately  45  minutes. 

For  Icing:  Mix  together  thoroughly  and  spread  on  top  of  the 
cooled  cake.  Keep  refrigerated.  For  best  results,  let  stand  at  room 
temperature  prior  to  serving.  Serves  10  to  12. 

Pamela  Robbins 


BUTTER-CINNAMON  DELIGHT  COFFEE  CAKE 


1  box  yellow  cake  mix 

3  %  oz.  box  instant  vanilla  pudding 

4  eggs 

:¥4C.  cooking  oil 
:¥4  c.  water 


1  Tbsp.  butter  flavoring 
Vic.  sugar 

Vic.  chopped  pecans 
Vic.  coconut 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 


Glaze: 


2  Tbsp.  milk 

1  c.  powdered  sugar 


1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
1  tsp.  butter  flavoring 


Put  cake  mix,  pudding  mix,  eggs,  oil,  water  and  butter  flavoring 
iin  a  bowl  and  beat  with  mixer  6  to  8  minutes.  Mix  sugar,  nuts,  cinna- 
mon and  coconut  in  a  bowl.  Put  V2  cake  batter  in  a  10-inch  tube  or 
-Bundt  pan.  Sprinkle  with  half  of  filling.  Add  rest  of  batter  and  sprin- 
»kle  remainder  of  filling  on  top.  Stir  filling  barely  into  batter.  Bake  at 
,350°  for  45  minutes.  Mix  together  the  glaze  ingredients  and  drizzle 
Dver  the  warm  cake. 

Frances  Binkley 


164389 


117- 


DESSERTS 


ICEBOX  CAKE 


Step  1: 

1  c.  plain  flour 
1  c.  chopped  nuts 

Step  2: 

1  c.  sugar 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

Step  3: 

1  pkg.  instant  chocolate  pudding 
mix 


1  stick  margarine,  soft 


1  c.  (8  oz.)  whipped  topping 


1  pkg.  instant  vanilla  pudding  mix 
3  c.  milk 


Mix  together  flour,  nuts  and  margarine  and  press  into  a  9  x  13- 
inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Mix  sugar,  cream  cheese 
and  whipped  topping.  Spread  evenly  over  cold  crust.  Mix  puddings 
with  milk  until  thick.  Spread  evenly  over  second  mixture  and  top 
with  remainder  of  whipped  topping. 

Doris  Ward 


OATMEAL  CAKE 


1  c.  brown  sugar 

1  c.  white  sugar 

1  Vz  c.  self-rising  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Topping: 

1  stick  butter 
1  c.  sugar 
1  c.  coconut 


1  Va  c.  boiling  water 

1  c.  quick  oats 
Vz  c.  Crisco  oil 

2  eggs 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


1  c.  chopped  pecans 

2  eggs 

Vic.  milk 


; 


Sift  together  dry  ingredients  for  cake.  Blend  in  everything  else 
for  cake  with  an  electric  mixer  until  smooth.  Pour  into  an  8  x  12-inch; 
glass  baking  dish  which  has  been  greased  and  floured.  Bake  at  350 
for  30  minutes. 

Topping:  Mix  together  topping  ingredients  and  spread  on  top  of 
the  baked  cake.  Return  the  cake  to  the  oven  and  broil  just  until  coco- 
nut begins  to  brown. 

Frances  Binkley 


118- 


DESSERTS 


MOIST  QUICK  OATS  CAKE 


c.  quick  oats 
Va  c.  boiling  water 
c.  brown  sugar 
c.  white  sugar 
stick  margarine 

Icing: 

c.  brown  sugar 
2  stick  butter 
V2  c.  milk 


2  eggs 

1  V2  c.  plain  flour 
1  scant  tsp.  soda,  nutmeg  and 
vanilla 


1  can  Angel  Flake  coconut 
1  c.  nuts  (pecans  or  walnuts) 


Pour  water  over  oats;  let  set  for  20  minutes.  Cream  sugar  and 
gutter;  add  eggs  and  cream  well.  Add  oats,  flour,  soda,  nutmeg  and 
anilla  to  mixture.    Grease  and  flour  pan.  Bake  30  to  40  minutes 
it  350°. 

Icing  for  Cake:  Mix  brown  sugar,  butter,  milk,  coconut  and  nuts 
veil.  Pour  over  cake  when  you  take  it  from  oven.  Then  place  it  under 
>roiler  and  brown  lightly.  Cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

Treva  Swaim 


i.  c.  cocoa 

!c.  sugar 

!  sticks  butter 

I  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Icing: 

I  lb.  powdered  sugar 
h  c.  milk 
h  stick  butter 


MISSISSIPPI  MUD  CAKE 

1  Vi  c.  flour,  sifted 

dash  of  salt 

Yz  c.  chopped  nuts 


1  tsp.  vanilla  flavor 


Vz  c.  cocoa 

miniature  marshmallows 


Melt  butter  and  cocoa.  Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  sugar  and 
sggs.  Mix  well  and  add  flour,  salt,  chopped  nuts  and  vanilla.  Mix  well 
and  bake  in  a  greased  9  x  13-inch  pan  at  350°  for  35  minutes  or  until 
done.  Remove  from  oven.  Cover  top  of  cake  with  miniature  marsh- 
mallows  while  still  hot. 

Icing:  Melt  butter  and  cocoa;  add  milk  and  powdered  sugar. 
Spread  over  hot  cake. 

Kathleen  Robbins 


154389 


119 


DESSERTS 


HAWAIIAN  CAKE 


18  V2  oz.  pkg.  yellow  cake  mix 
5  Vz  oz.  large  pkg.  instant  vanilla 

pudding  mix 
1  c.  cold  milk 

8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  softened 
Vz  c.  chopped  pecans 


9  oz.  container  frozen  nondairy 
whipped  topping,  thawed 

20  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple,  well 
drained 

V2  c.  flaked  coconut 

V2  c.  chopped  maraschino  cherries, 
drained 


Prepare  cake  mix  according  to  package  directions.  Pour  battel 
into  a  greased  10  x  15-inch  jelly  roll  pan.  Bake  in  a  preheated  350'?; 
oven  for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until  cake  tests  done.  Cool  in  pan.  When; 
cake  has  cooled,  blend  pudding  mix  with  milk.  Beat  cream  cheese 
into  pudding  mix  until  smooth.  Stirring  by  hand,  fold  whipped  top 
ping  into  pudding-cheese  mixture.  Spread  pudding  mixture  on  top  oi 
cooled  cake.  Spread  drained  pineapple  over  pudding.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  cherries,  nuts  and  then  coconut.  Refrigerate  until  ready  tc 
cut.  Serves  15  to  18. 

Tips:  Be  sure  cream  cheese  is  well  softened.   Move  fast  when 
blending  pudding  mix  with  milk. 

Delia  Matthews 


MANDARIN  CREAM  CAKE 


Cake: 


1  box  yellow  cake  mix 
Vz  c.  vegetable  oil 
4  eggs 

Icing: 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  instant  vanilla  pudding 
1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 
and  juice 


1  (11  oz.)  can  mandarin  oranges 
with  juice 


1  (8  oz.)  carton  Cool  Whip 


For  Cake:  Mix  all  ingredients  until  smooth,  but  no  longer.  Pour 
into  3  well-greased  and  floured  8-inch  cake  pans.  Bake  at  325°  for 
about  15  minutes.  Cool. 

For  Icing:  Mix  pudding  and  pineapple.  Fold  in  Cool  Whip,  mix- 
ing just  until  blended.  Spread  between  cake  layers  and  on  top. 
Refrigerate. 

Suzan  Anderson 


-120- 


DESSERTS 



CHOCOLATE  BUTTERMILK  CAKE 

%  c.  sifted  flour  2  sq.  melted  chocolate 

Y2  c.  sugar  2  eggs 

/4tsp.  soda  V-i  c.  buttermilk 

£  c.  shortening  1  tsp.  vanilla 
/4  c.  buttermilk 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar  and  soda.  Add  shortening  and  %  cup 

Duttermilk  and  beat  2  minutes  with  electric  beater  on  medium  speed. 

Add  melted  chocolate,  eggs,  Vz  cup  buttermilk  and  vanilla.   Beat  2 

nore  minutes.  Bake  in  two  greased  and  floured  9-inch  round  pans  in 

-1  350°  oven  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Use  Creamy  Frosting  as  icing  for 

;his  cake. 


Beulah  Bennett 

COCONUT  SHEET  CAKE 

1  pkg.  (2-layer  size)  yellow  cake  mix  2  c.  milk 

:   with  pudding  Vfe  c.  sugar 

2  tsp.  vanilla  1  carton  frozen  whipped  topping 

1  pkg.  (6  oz,  each)  frozen  coconut, 
*   thawed 

Make  cake  mix  by  package  directions  with  the  addition  of  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  all  but  Vz  cup  coconut;  reserve  the  Vz  cup  coco- 
nut. Bake  in  greased  and  floured  pan,  9  x  13  x  3-inches  deep. 

Meantime,  heat  together,  but  do  not  boil,  milk,  sugar  and 
remaining  teaspoon  vanilla.  Stick  the  cake  with  a  wooden  pick  to 
make  holes.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  over  the  hot  cake;  allow  milk  to 
run  down  into  the  holes.  Let  cake  cool  completely.  Spread  thawed 
whipped  topping  over  cake;  sprinkle  with  reserved  coconut. 

Nancy  F.  Duggins 

SWEDISH  NUT  CAKE 

2  c.  sugar  2  tsp.  baking  soda 
i2  eggs  2  c.  flour 

20  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple,  juice  1  tsp.  vanilla 

and  all  Vfe  c.  English  walnuts 

Topping: 

8  oz.  cream  cheese,  soft  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  stick  margarine  Vz  c.  English  walnuts 

11  %  c.  powdered  sugar 

154389  -  121  - 


DESSERTS 

Mix  cake  ingredients  together  and  put  into  a  9  x  13-inch  pan. 
Bake  at  350°  for  35  to  45  minutes  or  until  done.  Take  out  of  oven  and 
immediately  spread  topping  over  top  of  hot  cake.  Keep  in 
refrigerator. 

For  Topping:  Mix  all  ingredients  and  blend  well  with  electric 
mixer. 

Pat  Whitt 


PEGGY'S  BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

1  lb.  butter  or  margarine  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar  2  Tbsp.  nutmeg 

6  eggs  V2  c.  brandy 

4  c.  sifted  flour  3  c.  chopped  pecans 


: 


',■ 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  beat 
well  after  each  addition.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  nut- 
meg, add  gradually  to  creamed  mixture;  beat  until  well  blended.  Stir 
in  brandy.  Fold  in  pecans.  Pour  mixture  into  10-inch  tube  pan  that 
has  been  greased  and  floured.  Bake  in  a  300°  oven  for  1  hour  and  40 
minutes  or  until  done. 

Note:  One  pound  seedless  golden  raisins  may  be  added,  if 
desired.  (I  prefer  apricot  brandy.) 

Margaret  Bowles 

LEMONADE  CAKE 

your  favorite  lemon  cake  mix  3  c.  confectioners  sugar 

6  oz.  can  frozen  lemonade 

Bake  lemon  cake  in  a  9  x  13-inch  cake  pan.  When  done,  prick  all 
over  with  a  fork  (not  all  the  way  through).  Take  3  cups  confectioners 
sugar  and  mix  with  thawed  lemonade.  Pour  mixture  over  cake  and 
let  seep  through  cake.  Put  back  in  the  oven  for  5  minutes. 

Delia  Matthews 

SOUR  CREAM  BANANA  CAKE 

(Baby's  First  Birthday  Cake) 

1  stick  butter  1  tsp.  soda 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  sour  cream 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

2  c.  all-purpose  flour  2  very  ripe  bananas,  mashed 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 


-122- 


DESSERTS 


Frosting: 

3  %  oz.)  pkg.  vanilla  pudding  mix 
Ilk 


1  c.  whipped  cream 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  smooth.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time 
id  mix  well.  Combine  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  creamed  mixture 

^temately  with  sour  cream.  Add  vanilla  and  fold  in  mashed 
inanas.  Put  in  2  (8-inch)  greased  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  to 
)  minutes. 

Frost  with  1  (3  %  ounce)  package  vanilla  pudding  mix  and  1  cup 
hipped  cream.  Prepare  mix  as  if  for  pie  filling.  Fold  in  whipped 
earn.  Frost  between  layers  and  on  top.  Refrigerate  several  hours  or 
rernight  to  baby's  delight! 

Ruth  Wyatt 

JAYNE'S  RUM  CAKE 


30x  Duncan  Hines  butter  recipe 
yellow  cake  mix 

3ox  (small)  instant  vanilla  pudding 
;.  nuts,  chopped 

Topping: 

stick  butter 
B.  sugar 


tec.  oil 
tec.  milk 
te  c.  light  rum 
4  eggs 


V4C.  rum 
Vac.  water 


Flour  and  grease  Bundt  pan.  Put  pecans  in  bottom  of  pan.  Mix 
her  ingredients  and  pour  over  nuts.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  to  60  min- 
xes. Pour  topping  over.  Let  cake  absorb  before  removing  from  pan. 

Topping:  Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  for 
?minutes. 

\  Jayne  K.  Appleyard 


CHOCOLATE  SYRUP  CAKE 


p.  sugar 

stick  margarine 

eggs 

Icing: 

stick  margarine 

c.  sugar 

c.  milk  (may  use  evaporated) 


1  c.  self-rising  flour 

1  (16  oz.)  can  chocolate  syrup 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


te  c.  chocolate  bits  or  1  sq. 
chocolate 


4389 


-123- 


DESSERTS 

Cream  together  sugar  and  margarine,  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  well  after  each.  Add  flour.  Mix  well.  Add  syrup  and  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  9  x  13-inch  pan  for  about  30  minutes  at  350°.  Ice  while  still!! 
hot.  Serve  from  pan. 

For  Icing:  Boil  for  2  minutes.   Add  Vz  cup  chocolate  bits  or  1 
square  chocolate.  Stir  until  melted  and  ice  immediately. 

Doris  Ward 


DIRT  CAKE 

2  large  pkg.  Oreos,  crushed  2  small  pkg.  French  vanilla  pudding 

8  oz.  cream  cheese,  softened  (instant) 

Vs  c.  powdered  sugar  4  c.  milk 

%  c.  butter,  softened  1  (12  oz.  or  more)  carton  Cool  Whip 

Make  in  a  clean  plastic  flower  pot  and  put  artificial  flowers  in' 
the  center.  Serve  with  a  plastic  flower  gardening  tool. 

Put  the  Oreos  in  blender  to  crush  and  set  aside.  Cream  together 
cream  cheese,  butter  and  powdered  sugar  and  set  aside.  Blend  the 
pudding  and  milk  and  let  it  begin  to  set.  Fold  in  the  Cool  Whip.  Blend 
in  the  sugar  and  cream  cheese  mixture.  Layer  in  flower  pot,  begin-* 
ning  with  cookies,  then  pudding  and  ending  with  cookies. 

Roberta  Franklin 


i 


LEMON  CAKE 

1  pkg.  lemon  cake  mix  %  c.  Wesson  oil 

1  pkg.  lemon  Jell-0  (small  pkg.)  4  eggs 
%c.  water 

Lemon  Drizzle: 

2  c.  powdered  sugar  V3  c.  fresh  lemon  juice 


Put  all  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  a  tube  pan 
and  bake  at  350°  until  done. 

Make  a  lemon  drizzle  with  2  cups  powdered  sugar  and  Vs  cup; 
fresh  lemon  juice  and  drizzle  over  cake  when  cool. 

Mrs.  John  F.  Perkin 


124- 


21 


ill 


DESSERTS 


SOUR  CREAM  COFFEE  CAKE 


sticks  softened  margarine 

c.  sugar 

eggs 

c.  sour  cream 

i|     Topping: 

i 

•  c.  finely  chopped  nuts 
!  tsp.  cinnamon 


V^tsp.  vanilla 
2  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 
yotsp.  salt 


2  Tbsp.  light  brown  sugar 


Cream  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  in  mixer.  Barely  fold  in  by  hand 
j  our  cream  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  dry  ingredients,  premixed.  Pour  half 
f  the  batter  into  greased  and  floured  pan.  Sprinkle  with  half  or  more 
f  topping.  Pour  the  rest  of  the  batter.  Cover  with  the  remaining 
opping.  Bake  at  350°  for  55  to  60  minutes.  Cool  completely  in  the 
an.  Keep  refrigerated. 

Janice  Sykes 

APRICOT-PRUNE  COFFEECAKE 


[4C.  dried  apricots 
4C.  dried  pitted  prunes 
(C.  all-purpose  flour 
Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 
4  tsp.  baking  soda 
i  tsp.  salt 

Streusel  Mixture: 

2  c.  brown  sugar,  packed 
Tbsp.  softened  margarine 


%c.  softened  margarine 

1  Vz  c.  sugar 

4  eggs 

1  Yi  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  sour  cream 


2  Tbsp.  flour 
1  tsp.  cinnamon 


Mix  streusel  mixture  together.   Set  aside.   Chop  apricots  and 
>runes.  Toss  to  combine.  Grease  and  flour  10-inch  tube  pan.  Pre- 
leat  oven  to  350°.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt. 
Set  aside.  Put  margarine  in  large  bowl  and  beat  on  medium  speed 
until  fluffy.  Gradually  beat  in  sugar.  Add  vanilla.   Beat  well.  Add 
1  ggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each  one.  Add  flour  alternately  with 
our  cream.  Fold  in  apricot  and  prunes.  Put  V3  batter  in  pan.  Sprin- 
kle with  V3  streusel.    Repeat  with  remaining  batter  and  streusel. 
Jake  one  hour.   Let  cool  in  pan  20  minutes.    Remove  from  pan  to 
^)late.  Make  glaze. 


54389 


125- 


DESSERTS 

Glaze: 

1  c.  confectioners  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2Tbsp.  milk 

Mix  together  and  drizzle  over  cake.  Freezes  well. 

Frances  Binkley 

GINGERBREAD 

1  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar  3  c.  all-purpose  flour 

1  c.  molasses  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Vz  c.  butter  or  margarine,  melted  1  Vz  tsp.  ground  ginger 

2  eggs  1  Vz  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 
1  c.  buttermilk                                           1  Vz  tsp.  ground  nutmeg 

Combine  sugar,  molasses  and  butter;  beat  well.  Add  eggs,  beat- 
ing mixture  well;  set  aside.  Combine  dry  ingredients.  Add  to  egg 
mixture  alternately  with  milk,  beginning  and  ending  with  flour  mix- 
ture. Mix  well  after  each  addition.  Pour  batter  into  a  greased  and 
floured  13  x  9  x  2-inch  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  to  30  minutes. 

Laura  Thorpe 

MINCEMEAT  CAKE 

1  lb.  mincemeat  2  egg  yolks 

1  box  seedless  raisins  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  English  walnuts  1  tsp.  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  1 

1  tsp.  vanilla  Tbsp.  boiling  water 

Vz  c.  melted  Crisco  2  egg  whites,  beaten  until  stiff 

1  c.  sugar 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given;  blend  well.  Bake  in  a 
tube  pan  for  1  M>  hours  at  325°. 

Virginia  Holder 

MINIATURE  FRUIT  CAKES 


i 


t 


(i 


1  lb.  butter  1  lb.  chopped  dates 

1  V?.  c.  sugar  1  lb.  white  raisins  |io 

1  doz.  eggs  1  lb.  cherries 

1  c.  light  corn  syrup  1  Vis  to  2  lb.  pineapple 

Vz  c.  orange  juice  Vz  pkg.  coconut 

4  c.  plain  flour  1  lb.  walnuts 

1  Tbsp.  nutmeg  1  lb.  pecans 

Vz  tsp.  soda 


-126- 


DESSERTS 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar 

ixture.  Add  juice  and  syrup.  Sift  flour,  soda  and  nutmeg  and  add 

mixture.  Add  fruits  and  nuts.  Put  in  tube  pan  or  loaf  pan.  Bake 

275°  for  3  hours.  (Little  loaf  pans,  7  x  4-inches,  bake  for  2  hours.) 

Roberta  Franklin 


' 


FRUIT  CAKE 


Batter: 


b.  butter  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

b.  brown  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

eggs,  separated  V4  c.  brandy 
b.  flour  (plain) 

Spices: 

f 

L 

tsp.  allspice  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

jisp.  cloves 

Candied  Fruit  and  Regular  Fruit: 

lb.  each:  cherries,  pineapple,  2  lb.  white  raisins 

ginger,  citron,  figs  and  dates  1  sliced  lemon  and  orange  rind 

Nuts: 

lb.  each  blanched  almonds,  English  walnuts,  pecans  and 
black  walnuts 

I 

With  electric  mixer,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  eggyolks, 

aking  powder  and  salt.  Add  flour,  spices  and  unbeaten  egg  whites 

od  mix  well.  By  hand,  mix  candied  items,  fruit  and  nuts  into  batter 

lixture.  At  this  point,  add  V2  cup  of  brandy.  Mix  well  by  hand.  Pour 

ito  a  greased  tube  pan  and  several  loaf  pans.   Bake  at  250°  for  4 

ours,  testing  smaller  pans  for  doneness  after  2  V2  hours.  While  still 

1  the  pans,  pour  V2  cup  brandy  over  the  cakes.  Wait  until  cakes  are 

artially  cool  to  remove  from  the  pans. 

Note:  One  pound  of  mixed  candied  fruit  can  be  substituted  for 

andied  cherries,  pineapple,  ginger  and  citron. 

Roberta  Franklin 


.4389  -  127 


DESSERTS 

RASPBERRY  CHEESECAKE 

Crust: 

1 2h  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs  2  Tbsp.  sugar 

%  c.  finely  chopped  walnuts  Vb  c.  melted  butter 

Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 

Filling: 

3  beaten  eggs  Va  tsp.  salt 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  (at  1  tsp.  vanilla 

room  temperature)  Vz  tsp.  almond  flavoring 

1c.  sugar  3  c.  sour  cream  (1  Vz  pt.) 

Combine  the  ingredients  for  crust  and  press  in  bottom  and  sides 
of  9  or  10-inch  spring-form  pan.  Combine  eggs,  sugar,  cheese,  salt 
and  flavorings.  Beat  until  smooth.  Blend  in  sour  cream.  Pour  into 
prepared  crust.  Bake  45  to  50  minutes  at  375°.  Filling  will  still  be 
soft  in  center. 

Raspberry  Sauce: 

1  qt.  raspberries  1  Vz  c.  sugar  or  to  taste 

Vz  c.  water 

Wash  and  pick  over  berries.  Place  in  saucepan.  Add  water,  cov- 
er and  bring  to  aboil.  Cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Add  sugar.  It  thickens 
as  it  cools.  Will  keep  in  refrigerator  indefinitely. 

Beth  Leonard 


QUICK  AND  EASY  CHEESE  CAKE 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

1  stick  butter  2  eggs 

1  egg  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  Vz  c.  chopped  pecans 

Mix  cake  mix,  butter  and  1  egg  together  well  and  pat  into  13  x 
9-inch  pan.  Mix  with  electric  mixer  the  cream  cheese,  sugar,  2  eggs 
and  vanilla.  Spread  on  top  of  mixture  in  pan.  Sprinkle  with  Vi  cup 
chopped  pecans  and  bake  for  45  minutes  at  350°.  Cool;  cut  in  squares 
and  serve. 

Treva  Swaim 


-128 


DESSERTS 


STRAWBERRY  GLAZED  CREAM  CHEESE  CAKE 


Crust: 

/4C.  chopped  walnuts 

ftc.  finely  crushed  graham  crackers 

Filling: 

\  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  (at 
room  temperature) 

1  eggs 

Topping: 

2  c.  sour  cream 
we.  sugar 

J       Strawberry  Glaze: 

1  qt.  medium  strawberries 
12  oz.  jar  red  raspberry  jelly 
1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 


3Tbsp.  melted  unsalted  butter 


1  Va  c.  sugar 

1  Tbsp.  fresh  lemon  juice 

2  tsp.  vanilla 


1  tsp.  vanilla 


Vac.  Cointreau 
Va  c.  water 


Position  rack  in  center  of  oven  and  preheat  to  350°.  Lightly  but- 
ter 9  or  10-inch  spring-form  pan. 

Crust:  Combine  walnuts,  graham  cracker  crumbs  and  butter. 
Press  compactly  onto  bottom  of  pan. 

Filling:  Beat  cream  cheese  in  large  bowl  of  electric  mixer  until 
smooth.  Add  eggs,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  vanilla  and  beat  thorough- 
ly. Spoon  over  crust.  Set  pan  on  baking  sheet  to  catch  any  butter 
that  may  drip  out.  Bake  10-inch  cake  40  to  45  minutes  or  9-inch  cake 
50  to  55  minutes.  (Cake  may  rise  slightly  and  crack  in  several  areas; 
it  will  settle  again,  cracks  will  minimize  and  topping  will  cover  it  up.) 
Remove  from  oven  and  let  stand  at  room  temperature  for  15  minutes. 
Retain  oven  temperature  at  350°. 

Topping:  Combine  sour  cream,  sugar  and  vanilla  and  blend 

well.  Cover  and  refrigerate.  When  cake  has  finished  baking,  spoon 

topping  over,  starting  at  center  and  extending  to  within  V'2-inch  of 

edge.    Return  to  oven  and  bake  5  minutes  longer.   Let  cool,  then 

5  refrigerate  cheesecake  for  at  least  24  hours  or  preferably  2  to  3  days. 

Glaze:  Several  hours  before  serving,  wash  and  hull  berries  and 
\  let  dry  completely  on  paper  towels.  Combine  a  little  jelly  with  corn- 
starch in  a  saucepan  and  mix  well.  Add  remaining  jelly,  Cointreau 
i  and  water  and  cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  frequently,  until 


154389 


129- 


DESSERTS 

thickened  and  clear,  about  5  minutes.   Cool  to  lukewarm,  stirring 
occasionally. 

Using   knife,    loosen   cake    from    pan;    remove    spring-form 
Arrange  berries  pointed  end  up  over  top  of  cake.  Spoon  glaze  over 
berries,  allowing  some  to  drip  down  sides  of  cake.  Return  to  refrigera 
tor  until  the  glaze  is  set. 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 


\\ 


TINY  CHOCOLATE  CHEESECAKES 

18  chocolate  cookies  te  c.  sugar 

2  pkg.  (8  oz.  each)  softened  cream  2  eggs 

cheese  1  c.  chocolate  pieces,  melted 

Place  1  cookie  on  bottom  of  each  of  18  paper-lined  baking  cups. 
Combine  the  cream  cheese  and  sugar  at  medium  speed  until  well 
blended.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mixing  after  each  one.  Blend  in 
chocolate.  Pour  into  baking  cups,  filling  each  cup  almost  full.  Bake 
at  350°  for  25  minutes.  Cool  before  removing  from  pan.  If  desired,  top 
with  whipped  cream.  (Recipe  will  make  24  by  placing  small  amount 
in  each  cup.) 

Karin  Binkley 


CHEESE  CAKE 

17  Vz  oz.  cream  cheese  6  eggs 

2  c.  sour  cream  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

3  Tbsp.  flour  3  tsp.  sugar  (to  egg  whites) 
pinch  of  salt  1  box  graham  crackers 
1  V2C.  sugar 

Flour  and  butter  bottom  of  spring-form  pan.  Make  graham 
cracker  crust  recipe  on  box.  Soften  cream  cheese.  Sift  together  3 
tablespoons  flour,  good  pinch  of  salt  and  1  Vz  cups  sugar.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  sugar  into  cream  cheese.  Beat.  Take  6  egg  yolks  (don't  beat 
beforehand)  and  put  into  mixture.  Add  2  cups  sour  cream.  Beat  well. 
Add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  put  aside.  Take  6  egg  whites  and  beat. 
Add  3  teaspoons  sugar  gradually;  beat  until  stiff,  not  dry.  Then  take 
and  fold  into  rest  of  mixture.  Bake  at  325°  for  an  hour.  Leave  in  oven 
for  another  hour  with  door  closed. 

Julia  A.  Spainhou 


130- 


DESSERTS 

PEANUT  BUTTER  POUND  CAKE 

sticks  margarine  or  butter  \k  tsp.  salt 

c.  brown  sugar  Vitsp.  soda 

2  c.  peanut  butter  1  c.  milk 

i  eggs  2  c.  sugar 

c.  flour  (plain)  2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
tsp.  baking  powder 

Frosting: 

2  c.  peanut  butter  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

c.  confectioners  sugar  Y3  c.  chopped  peanuts 

Tbsp.  milk  1  stick  butter  or  margarine 

To  make  the  cake,  cream  together  the  butter  or  margarine,  sug- 
,.rs  and  peanut  butter.  Add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  blending  well 
iter  each  addition.  Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  soda,  then 
.dd  the  flour  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk  and  vanilla  to  the 
reamy  mixture.  Bake  in  a  large  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  at  325° 
-or  1  V2  hours  or  until  the  cake  tests  done.  Cool  and  frost. 

To  prepare  frosting,  cream  the  butter  and  the  peanut  butter. 
Uld  sugar  alternately  with  the  milk  and  beat  until  fluffy.  Stir  in  the 
/anilla  extract  and  chopped  peanuts.  After  frosting  the  cake,  deco- 
ate,  if  desired,  with  a  few  whole  peanuts. 

Delia  Matthews 


RED  VELVET  POUND  CAKE 

2  c.  vegetable  shortening  Va  tsp.  salt 

!  sticks  butter  1  oz.  red  food  coloring 

c.  sugar  3  c.  all-purpose  flour 

i  eggs  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

-~4C,  cocoa  1  c.  milk 

tsp.  vanilla 

1 
■ 

j         Cream  until  fluffy  the  shortening,  margarine  or  butter  and  sug- 

ir.  Add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  the  cocoa,  vanilla,  salt  and  food 

coloring  to  creamed  mixture  and  mix  well.  Sift  together  the  remain- 

ng  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.   Mix  well. 

,3ake  in  a  greased  and  floured  10-inch  tube  pan  at  300°  for  1  V2  hours 

>r  until  cake  tests  done. 

Anna  Fouts 


54389  -  1  3  1  - 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  SYRUP  POUND  CAKE 

Vz  lb.  margarine  (2  sticks)  5  eggs 

Vz  c.  Crisco  1  c.  milk 

3  c.  sugar  1  lb.  can  chocolate  syrup 

3  c.  plain  flour  1  V^tsp.  vanilla 

Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 


I 


Chocolate  Cream  Cheese  Icing: 

1  box  powdered  sugar  Vz  c.  cocoa 

1  stick  margarine  1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

4Tbsp.  cream  or  milk  t  Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

To  Make  Cake:  Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Beat  until 
smooth.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  continue  beating.  Add  chocolate 
syrup,  then  combine  flour  alternately  with  milk.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Pour 
into  a  greased  and  floured  large  tube  pan  (10-inches).  Start  in  cold 
oven.  Do  not  open  door  fori  hour.  Bake  2  hours  at  300°  or  until  done.. 
Test  with  a  toothpick.  (I  bake  mine  2  V2  hours.)  Let  cool  in  pan  about 
45  minutes. 

To  Make  Icing:  Cream  margarine  and  soft  cream  cheese.  Mix 
sugar  and  cocoa.  Add  the  cream  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  smooth.  Add' 
1  V2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Spread  on  cooled  cake. 

Rosemary  Worley 

POUND  CAKE 


i 


1 


Vfe  ib.  butter  Vz  tsp.  salt 

Vz  c.  Crisco  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  c.  sugar  3  Vz  c.  sifted  flour 

6  eggs  1  Vz  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 

1  c.  milk 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  Crisco  well.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Beat  well  after  each  egg.  Add  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Do  not 
overheat  after  adding  flour  and  milk.  Add  other  ingredients.  Pour 
into  greased  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  and  20  minutes  or 
until  done.  * 


Kathleen  Bobbin 

"HAZEL'S" 

CHOCOLATE  POUND 

CAKE 

1c. 

butter 

3  c.  plain  flour 

Vzc 

.  Crisco 

Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 

tec 

. cocoa 

VUsp.  salt 

3  c. 

sugar 

1  Vac.  milk 

5  eggs 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

-132 


■ 


DESSERTS 

Frosting: 

stick  margarine  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

Tbsp.  cocoa  4to6Tbsp.  milk 

Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beat- 
lg  well.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  blend  with  spatula  into 
rst  mixture  until  all  is  moistened.  Add  milk  and  beat  4  minutes  on 
low.  Bake  in  large  tube  pan  (greased  and  floured)  at  275°  for  3 
ours.  For  a  thick  brown  crust,  start  in  cold  oven.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
nts  for  frosting  together  well.  Spread  on  cool  cake. 

Margie  Peterson 

BLACK  WALNUT  CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 


J 


ic.  Crisco  y<s  tsp.  sail 

:  lb.  butter  Vfe  c.  plus  2  Tbsp.  cocoa 

c.  sugar  1  c.  black  walnuts,  chopped  fine 

eggs  1  Vz  c.  milk 

:  c.  straight  flour  1  Tbsp.  vanilla  flavoring 
4  tsp.  baking  powder 

Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Cream  together 
'risco,  butter,  sugar  and  eggs,  adding  the  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Sift 
ogether  dry  ingredients  twice.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  the  creamed 
fixture,  beating  until  smooth.  Add  1  V2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon 
anilla  and  the  chopped  walnuts.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  cake 
ian  and  bake  at  350°  for  approximately  2  hours.  Test  with  toothpick 
ast  10  to  15  minutes. 


> 


Nancy  H.  Rogers 
WHIPPED  BUTTER  POUND  CAKE 


2  lb.  whipped  butter  3  c.  plain  flour 

.2  c.  Crisco  Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 

'c.  sweet  milk  V*  tsp.  salt 

c.  sugar  2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

eggs  2  tsp.  lemon  extract 


Cream  together  shortenings  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
leating  well  after  each  addition.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking 
>owder  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  milk,  beginning 
ind  ending  with  flour  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and  lemon  extracts  and 

54389  -133- 


DESSERTS 

blend  well.  Pour  into  a  greased  and  floured  10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake 
in  a  325°  oven  for  1  hour  and  20  minutes  or  until  done. 

Delia  Matthews  jil 
CHOCOLATE  SOUR  CREAM  POUND  CAKE 


1  Vi  c.  butter,  softened  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

3  c.  sugar  v*  tsp.  salt 

5  eggs  8  oz.  carton  commercial  sour  cream 

3  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  c.  boiling  water 

Vz  c.  cocoa  2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 


Cream  butter;  gradually  add  sugar,  beating  well.  Add  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Combine  flour,  cocoa,  soda 
and  salt;  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sour  cream,  begin- 
ning and  ending  with  flour  mixture.  Mix  well  after  each  addition. 
Add  boiling  water  and  mix  well.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Pour  batter  into  a 
greased  and  floured  10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  and  20 
minutes  or  until  cake  tests  done.  Cool  cake  in  pan  10  to  15  minutes; 
remove  from  pan  and  cool  completely.  Yields  one  10-inch  cake. 

Delia  Matthews 

FIVE  FLAVOR  POUND  CAKE 

2  sticks  butter  or  margarine  1  tsp.  rum  extract 
Vz  c.  vegetable  shortening  1  tsp.  butter  extract 

3  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 
3  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
Va  tsp.  salt  5  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  c.  milk  V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  coconut  extract 

Cream  butter,  shortening  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  $ 
eggs  which  have  been  beaten  until  lemon  colored.  Combine  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 
milk.  Stir  in  flavorings.  Spoon  mixture  into  greased  and  floured  10- 
inch  tube  pan  and  bake  at  325°  for  about  1  Vi  hours  or  until  done. 

Delia  Matthews 

CREAM  CHEESE  POUND  CAKE 

3  c.  sugar  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  sticks  butter  1  Tbsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  Tbsp.  lemon  flavoring 

6  large  eggs  dash  of  salt 

3  c.  straight  flour  3  Tbsp.  milk 

-134- 


DESSERTS 

Icing: 

I  iz.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

'•'Stick  butter  dash  of  salt 

oz.  1 0x  powdered  sugar 

Use  electric  mixer  to  cream  sugar,  butter  and  cream  cheese. 

.  id  1  egg  at  a  time  and  beat  a  lot.  Add  small  measures  of  dry  ingredi- 

i  ts  alternately  with  milk  and  flavorings.  Use  Bundt  pan  and  pour 

b  cess  in  other  pans  or  use  oversized  pound  cake  pan  (all  of  which 

ould  be  greased).  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  to  1  hour  and  15  minutes 

r  Bundt  pan  and  1  hour  40  minutes  for  oversized  pan. 

Icing:  Use  electric  mixer  to  beat  all  ingredients.  Add  more  sugar 
.  some  milk,  if  needed,  to  obtain  icing  consistency.  Ice  cake  when  it 
cool.  Refrigerate.  Also  freezes  well. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 


I 


CREAMY  FROSTING 


Va  c.  confectioners  sugar  Va  c.  granulated  sugar 

tsp.  salt  1/2  c.  Crisco 

;gg  2  tsp.  vanilla 
Tbsp.  water 

Combine  confectioners  sugar,  salt  and  egg.  Boil  water  and 
•anulated  sugar  together  for  1  minute.  Then  blend  with  sugar  and 
\g  mixture.  Add  Crisco  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy. 

For  chocolate  frosting,  add  2  squares  (1  ounce  each)  melted 
locolate. 

This  frosting  recipe  is  light,  smooth,  luscious  and  easy  to 
nread.  Lends  itself  to  endless  variations. 

Beulah  Bennett 


CARAMEL  FROSTING 

c.  butter  Vac.  milk 

c.  brown  sugar  2  c.  confectioners  sugar,  sifted 

Melt  butter  on  low  heat;  add  sugar.  Cook  on  low  heat  for  2  min- 
tes.  Add  Va  cup  milk,  bringing  to  aboil.  Remove  from  heat  and  cool, 
dd  2  cups  confectioners  sugar  (sifted),  gradually  beating  until  it  is 
le  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Nancy  H.  Rogers 

4389  -  135  - 


I 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  1  c.  sifted  powdered  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  cocoa  y«  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
2  Tbsp.  water 

Combine  butter  or  margarine,  cocoa  and  water  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan; cook  over  medium  heat  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from 
heat;  stir  in  powdered  sugar  and  vanilla.  Yields  about  1  cup. 

Evelyn  Reed  \ 

CHOCOLATE  FLUFF  FROSTING 

4  Tbsp.  butter  3  sq.  melted  chocolate 

1  Vz  c.  powdered  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  egg  whites 

Cream  butter,  add  3A  cup  powdered  sugar  and  blend.  Add  vanil- 
la and  melted  chocolate.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff.  Add  %  cup  sugar  and 
blend.  Beat  until  mixture  stands  in  peaks.  Add  to  chocolate  mixture,! 
folding  gently,  but  thoroughly,  only  enough  to  blend. 

Margaret  Bowles 

WORLD'S  BEST  COOKIES 

1  c.  butter  1  c.  crushed  cornflakes 

1  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  shredded  coconut 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  Yz  c.  chopped  nuts 

1  egg  3  Vz  c.  sifted  plain  flour 

1  c.  salad  oil  1  tsp  soda 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  tsp.  salt 
1  c.  rolled  oats,  uncooked 


Preheat  oven  to  325°.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  flurry;  add 
egg  and  mix  well.  Add  salad  oil  and  vanilla  and  mix  well.  Add  oats, 
cornflakes,  coconut  and  nuts,  stirring  well.  Add  flour,  soda  and  salt. 
Mix  well.  Make  little  balls;  put  on  cookie  sheet.  Dip  fork  in  water  to 
flatten  out.  Bake  16  minutes.  Makes  8  dozen. 


Susie  Whitt 


MAGIC  COOKIES 

1  c.  peanut  butter  (crunchy  or  1  tsp.  soda 

creamy)  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  sugar  1  egg 


-136 


\ 


I 


' 


DESSERTS 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly.    Roll  into  balls.  Press  down. 
>ake  at  400°  for  10  minutes.  Cool  on  pan. 

Patti  Petree 

FANTASY  COOKIES 

c.  butter  or  margarine  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

ic.  granulated  sugar  V^  tsp.  salt 

i  c.  brown  sugar  Vfe  c.  shredded  coconut 

eggs  Vz  c.  chocolate  chips 

tsp.  vanilla  Vz  c.  chopped  nuts 
Vz  c.  plain  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs.  Mix  in  flour,  baking  soda 
nd  salt.  Fold  in  remaining  ingredients.  Drop  by  the  teaspoonful  on 

jokie  sheet.    Bake  8  to  10  minutes  in  350°  oven.    Cool  on  rack. 

I 

lakes  about  4  dozen  cookies. 
i 

Evelyn  Reed 

DROP  SUGAR  COOKIES 

1/2  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  c.  sugar 

tsp.  soda  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

:tc.  butter  or  margarine  1  egg 

:  c.  shortening  2Tbsp.  milk 

Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Sift  together  the 
our,  soda  and  salt.  Cream  together  butter,  shortening,  sugar  and 
anilla  flavoring.  Add  egg  to  creamed  mixture  and  beat  until  fluffy, 
tir  in  dry  ingredients  until  mixture  is  blended  and  then  add  2  table- 
poons  milk  and  beat  until  further  blended.  Drop  Vz  teaspoon  on 
,  ngreased  cookie  sheet.  Flatten  with  bottom  of  glass  dipped  in  sugar, 
pake  at  400°  for  approximately  10  to  12  minutes.  Yields  6  to  7  dozen. 

j  Peggy  H.  Bowles 


AGGRESSION  COOKIES 

c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar  1  Tbsp.  soda 

c.  butter  or  margarine  or  1  V2  c.  3  c.  all-purpose  flour 

each  6  c.  quick-cooking  oats 

Tbsp.  vanilla  butter  and  sugar  for  bottom  of  glass 

tsp.  salt 

4389  -137- 


DESSERTS 

Put  butter  or  margarine  in  a  large  bowl  to  soften.  Combine  salt, 
soda  and  flour.  When  butter  is  very  soft,  add  vanilla  and  all  the  dry 
ingredients  to  it  at  once.  Use  your  hands  to  mash,  knead  and  squeeze 
it  until  it  is  well  mixed.  The  more  you  squeeze  it,  the  better  (thus  the 
name:  Aggression  Cookies!).  Form  dough  into  small  balls  about! 
1-inch  in  diameter.  Place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Flatten  with) 
the  bottom  of  a  small  glass  buttered  and  dipped  in  sugar.  The  glass 
will  need  to  be  buttered  only  a  few  times,  but  dip  in  sugar  for  each 
cookie.  Bake  at  350°  until  lightly  browned,  approximately  10  min- 
utes. Makes  15  dozen. 

Jean  Mills 


BOILED  COOKIES 

2  c.  sugar  2  vi  c.  quick-cooking  oats 

Vz  c.  milk  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Va  lb.  margarine  Vz  c.  peanut  butter 
4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

Cook  sugar,  milk,  margarine  and  cocoa  for  1  V2  minutes.  Start 
counting  when  mixture  has  reached  a  full  rolling  boil.  Remove  from! 
heat  and  add  oats,  vanilla  and  peanut  butter.    Beat  well  unti 
blended.  Spoon  onto  waxed  paper. 

Delia  Matthews 


PEANUT  BUTTER  ICEBOX  COOKIES 

2  Vfec.  flour  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

%  Tbsp.  soda  1  c.  granulated  sugar 

Va  c.  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed  V*  Tbsp.  salt 

%  c.  shortening  1  c.  peanut  butter 

Sift,  then  measure  the  flour.  Sift  again  with  the  baking  sod£ 
and  salt.  Cream  the  shortening  until  light.  Add  granulated  sugai 
gradually,  beating  after  each  addition.  Then  add  brown  sugar 
Blend  peanut  butter  well.  Add  well  beaten  eggs,  then  dry  ingredi 
ents,  a  little  at  a  time,  beatinguntil  smooth  after  each  addition.  Forrr 
into  rolls.  Wrap  in  wax  paper.  Let  stand  in  the  refrigerator  severa 
hours  to  chill.  Bake  as  needed  by  slicing  thin  slices  from  the  roll  0: 
dough.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  about  13  minutes. 

Myrtie  Reict 


-138 


DESSERTS 

1  SNICKERDOODLES 

Ztjl  c.  soft  shortening  1  tsp.  soda 

1  Vfe  c.  sugar  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  2Tbsp.  sugar 

2  %  c.  sifted  flour  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Mix  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs  thoroughly.  Sift  together  the 
iflour,  cream  of  tartar,  soda  and  salt,  then  stir  into  shortening,  sugar 
and  egg  mixture.  Chill  dough.  Roll  into  balls  the  size  of  small  wal- 
nuts. Roll  balls  in  mixture  of  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon.  Place  2  inches  apart  on  ungreased  baking  sheet.  Bake  at 
400° until  lightly  brown,  but  still  soft  (about  8  to  10  minutes).  Makes 
about  5  dozen  cookies. 

Irene  McNally 


FRUIT  FLAVOR  MACAROON  COOKIES 

2  eggs  %c.  granulated  sugar 

h  c.  flour  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

•  Vs  tsp.  salt  1  Tbsp.  butter,  melted  and  slightly 

2  %  c.  flaked  coconut  cooled 

Vz  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind  1  tsp.  vanilla 
1  c.  glazed  chocolate  chips 


Beat  eggs  in  mixing  bowl  until  foamy  and  light  in  color.  Add 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  at  a  time,  beating  constantly  until  mixture  is 
thickened  and  creamy,  about  5  minutes.  Fold  in  flour,  baking  pow- 
der and  salt,  then  fold  in  butter.  Stir  in  coconut,  vanilla  and  V2  tea- 
spoon lemon  rind.  Then  fold  in  1  cup  chocolate  chips.  Drop  by  tea- 
spoons onto  greased  and  lightly  floured  baking  sheet.  Bake  15 
[  minutes  at  325°  until  edges  are  lightly  browned.  Makes  3  dozen. 

Beulah  Bennett 


1  ORANGE  SAUCE 

V 

% 

,  Vz  c.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  grated  orange  rind 

2  Tbsp.  cornstarch  Vz  c.  light  corn  syrup 

pinch  of  salt  1  Tbsp.  butter 

-  1  c.  orange  juice 


154389  -139 


DESSERTS 

Cook  all  ingredients,  except  butter,  over  low  heat  until  thici 
and  clear;  stir  while  cooking.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  butter 
Cool  and  serve.  Great  over  gingerbread  or  plain  pound  cake. 

Evelyn  Reec 

MICROWAVE  BROWN  SUGAR  CARAMEL  SAUCE 

Vz  c.  firmly  packed  dark  brown  sugar  2  Tbsp.  light  corn  syrup 

Vz  c.  heavy  cream 

In  a  4-cup  measuring  cup,  combine  all  ingredients.  Microwave 
2  minutes  on  High.  Whisk  to  redistribute.  Microwave  on  High  1 
minute  or  until  slightly  thickened  and  caramel  colored.  Whisk  mix 
ture  well  until  it  stops  boiling.  Sauce  will  thicken  as  it  cools 
Makes  3A  cup.  Can  be  made  ahead  of  time  and  kept  in  refrigerator 
Good  on  ice  cream  or  plain  cake. 

Evelyn  Reea 


LEMON  SAUCE 

grated  rind  of  1  orange  1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

juice  of  1  orange  1  beaten  egg 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  tsp.  butter 
Vfc  c.  sugar 

Put  juice  in  cup  filled  with  boiling  water  and  strain  (if  desired). 
Mix  V'2  cup  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Add  to  rind  1  beaten 
egg  and  1  teaspoon  butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thickened. 
Good  on  gingerbread. 

Laura  Thorpel 

BROWNIES 

4  eggs  2  sticks  margarine 

2  c.  sugar  1  c.  flour 
1  tsp.  vanilla  1  c.  chopped  nuts 
4  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate  dash  of  salt 

Beat  eggs  until  light.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla  and  beat  until 
thick.  Melt  chocolate  with  margarine  and  add  to  the  egg  mixture 
with  the  flour.  Then  add  the  nuts  and  cook  in  paper-lined  pans  for  30 
minutes  at  325°.  Yields  2  (8-inch)  pans. 

Janice  Sykes 


-140 


DESSERTS 

FUDGE  BAR   BROWNIES 

2  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate  1  tsp.  vanilla 

h  c.  margarine  Vz  c.  flour 

I  eggs  1  c.  nuts 

I  c.  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

Melt  chocolate  and  margarine  in  double  boiler.  Beat  eggs  with 
a  fork.  Add  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt  and  combine  with  chocolate  and 
margarine.  Add  flour  and  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  8  x 
3-inch  or  9  x  9-inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minute9  or  until  tooth- 
pick comes  out  clean. 

Clark  Larson 

CREAM  CHEESE  CAKE  SQUARES 

I  pkg.  yellow  cake  mix  1  large  pkg.  cream  cheese 

h.  c.  soft  margarine  2  eggs,  beaten 

I  egg,  beaten  1  box  powdered  sugar 

Mix  cake  mix,  margarine  and  1  egg  together.  Pat  into  greased 
)x  13-inch  pan.  Mix  cream  cheese,  2  eggs  and  powdered  sugar.  Pour 
this  mixture  on  top  of  cake  mix  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes. 
?or  variety,  sprinkle  with  coconut  before  baking. 

Pat  Whitt 

LEMON  SQUARES 

i 

j      Pastry: 

I  sticks  butter  Vz  c.  powdered  sugar 

Jc.  flour 

Mix  ingredients.  Press  out  in  a  buttered  9  x  13-inch  dish.  Bake 
)OT  15  minutes  at  325°. 

Filling: 

I  eggs  1  Tbsp.  flour 

!c.  sugar  Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 

►  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
f 

Beat  eggs.  Add  other  ingredients  and  pour  over  the  top  of  baked 

)astry.  Bake  at  325°  for  40  to  50  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 

sugar.  Cool  and  cut  into  squares. 

i  Hazel  Reich 

54389  -  141  - 


DESSERTS 


CHOCONUT  CARAMEL  BARS 


2  c.  (11  Vz  oz.  pkg.)  milk  chocolate 

chips 
2  Tbsp.  vegetable  shortening 
14  oz.  pkg.  Kraft  caramels 


2  Tbsp.  water 

1  c.  coarsely  chopped  peanuts 

5  Tbsp.  margarine 


Melt  chocolate  chips  and  shortening.  Stir  until  smooth 
Pour  V2  into  8-inch  foil-lined  square  pan.  Spread  evenly.  Refrigerate 
until  firm  (about  15  minutes).  In  a  separate  pan,  melt  caramels  anc 
margarine  with  water.  Stir  until  smooth.  Stir  in  peanuts.  Pourintc 
the  chocolate-lined  pan.  Spread  evenly.  Refrigerate  until  tackj 
(about  15  minutes).  Top  with  remaining  melted  chocolate.  Spread 
evenly  to  cover  caramel  layer.  Chill  until  firm  (about  1  hour).  Cut 
into  small  squares.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve.  Makes  about  3 
dozen. 

Bonny  McNally 


1 


CHOCOLATE-PRALINE  JUMBO  MUD  SQUARES 


%  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs 
%  c.  finely  chopped  pecans 
V4  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 
V4  c.  melted  butter  or  margarine 
12  oz.  jar  commercial 

caramel-flavored  topping 
1  c.  butter  or  margarine 
4  (1  oz.)  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate 
3  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 


1  Vi  c.  sugar 

1  call-purpose  flour 

4  eggs,  beaten 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

chocolate  frosting 

sifted  powdered  sugar  (optional) 

pecan  halves  (optional) 

candied  cherries  (optional) 


: 


Combine  graham  cracker  crumbs,  pecans,  brown  sugar  and  V-i 
cup  melted  butter  or  margarine,  stirring  well.  Press  crumb  mixture 
into  bottom  of  a  greased  9-inch  square  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  6  to  8 
minutes.  Cool  slightly.  Combine  caramel  topping  and  3  tablespoons 
flour,  stirring  well.  Spread  topping  on  crust  to  within  V4-inch  from 
edge  of  pan.  Set  aside.  Combine  1  cup  butter  and  unsweetened  choco- 
late in  a  heavy  saucepan;  cook  over  low  heat  until  melted.  Stir  in  sug- 
ar, 1  cup  flour,  eggs  and  vanilla;  pour  mixture  over  reserved  caramel 
topping  in  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  minutes.  Cool  slightly  and  spread 
with  chocolate  frosting.  Lightly  sift  powdered  sugar  over  frosting; 
garnish  with  pecan  halves  and  candied  cherries. 

Evelyn  Reed 


142- 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  PECAN  BARS 

2  c.  flour  6  eggs 

1  c.  packed  light  brown  sugar  Vz  c.  sugar 

Vz  c.  unsalted  butter,  slightly  1  c.  brown  sugar 

softened  %  c.  light  corn  syrup 

B  oz.  semi-sweet  chocolate  1  tsp.  vanilla 

,1  c.  butter  2  c.  pecan  halves 

Combine  flour  and  sugar  in  a  bowl.  Cut  butter  into  chunks  and 
cut  into  flour  using  a  pastry  blender  or  fork  until  crumbly.  Turn  mix- 
ture into  pan,  13  x  9-inches,  and  press  evenly  on  bottom.  Melt  choco- 
late with  butter  over  very  low  heat.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  eggs 
slightly;  beat  in  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  vanilla  by  hand.  Add  chocolate 
imixture.  Pour  chocolate  mixture  over  top.  Bake  at  375°  for  45  to  55 
minutes  until  set  or  toothpick  comes  clean.  Let  cool  before  serving  or 
cutting  into  squares. 

Pam  Southerland 


PECAN  PIE  SQUARES 

J  c.  flour  Vb  c.  margarine,  softened 

4  c.  plus  2  Tbsp.  sugar  %  tsp.  salt 


Filling: 

I  eggs,  slightly  beaten  3  Tbsp.  margarine,  melted 

I  Vz  c.  sugar  1  Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

I  Vz  c.  light  corn  syrup  2  Vz  c.  pecans,  chopped 

Heat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  jelly  roll  pan.  Beat  flour,  sugar,  mar- 
garine and  salt  in  a  large  bowl  on  medium  speed  until  crumbly  (mix- 
ture will  be  dry).  Press  firmly  into  pan.  Bake  about  20  minutes  until 
{olden  brown. 

Prepare  filling.  Pour  over  baked  layer.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes 
"intil  set.  Cool.  Cut  into  1  Vfe-inch  squares.  Makes  70  squares. 

Diana  Davis 

1 

PUMPKIN   PIE  BARS 

(18  1/2  02.)  box  yellow  cake  mix  Vz  c.  firmly  packed  light  brown  sugar 

32  c.  butter  or  margarine,  melted  2/3  c.  evaporated  milk 

eggs  1  Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 

(30  02.)  can  solid  pack  pumpkin  (3  Vz  c.  chopped  walnuts 

c.)  Vic.  butter  or  margarine,  softened 
*  c.  sugar,  divided 

54389  -143- 


DESSERTS 

Remove  1  cup  of  the  cake  mix;  reserve.  In  small  bowl,  lightly 
beat  1  egg.   In  large  bowl,  stir  together  remaining  cake  mix,  meltedj? 
butter  and  the  beaten  egg.    Press  into  a  greased  and  floured  13  *}l 
9-inch  baking  pan.  In  large  bowl,  slightly  beat  remaining  3  eggs.  Stii 
in  pumpkin,  V2  cup  of  the  sugar,  brown  sugar,  evaporated  milk  and 
cinnamon.   Pour  over  cake  mixture  in  pan.   To  the  1  cup  reserved 
cake  mix,  add  remaining  V2  cup  sugar,  walnuts  and  softened  butter: 
mix  until  crumbly.  Sprinkle  over  pumpkin  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  foi^1 
50  to  60  minutes.  Serve  warm  or  cool.  (Can  substitute  pumpkin  pie 
mix  and  omit  the  cinnamon.) 

Evelyn  Reed  j 


PUMPKIN  COOKIE  BARS 


1  c.  flour 

Yz  c.  quick  oats 

Vz  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 

V4C.  chopped  nuts 

1  %tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  c.  melted  butter 


1  c.  canned  pumpkin 

3/4  c.  undiluted  evaporated  milk 

1  slightly  beaten  egg 

%c.  sugar 

Vi  tsp.  allspice 

Vatsp.  salt 


Topping: 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 
V4  c.  orange  marmalade 


powdered  sugar  to  taste 


Combine  flour,  oats,  brown  sugar,  nuts  and  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon. Add  butter;  mix  until  crumbly.  Press  into  bottom  of  13  x  9  x 
2-inch  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Remove  from 
oven.  Reduce  temperature  to  325°.  Combine  remaining  ingredients. 
Pour  over  crust.  Bake  at  325°  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  toothpick 
comes  out  clean.  Cool  completely. 

Topping:  Beat  together  cream  cheese,  orange  marmalade  and 
powdered  sugar.  Spread  over  cooled  bars.  Garnish  with  chopped 
nuts.  Cut  into  bars.  Makes  approximately  32  bars. 

Pat  Whitt 


GRAHAM  TREATS 


2  pkg.  graham  crackers 
2  sticks  margarine 


1  c.  brown  sugar 
1  c.  chopped  nuts 


-144- 


DESSERTS 

Let  margarine,  sugar  and  nuts  simmer  about  5  minutes.  Place 
^aham  crackers  on  greased  cookie  sheet,  touching  closely.  Pour  mix 
Dver  crackers  and  bake  at  325°  for  10  minutes.  Cool  before  serving. 

Frances  Binkley 

SUGARED  PEANUTS 

)  c.  raw  peanuts  with  skins  (W.  G.  1  c.  sugar 

White's  has  these)  Vi  c.  water 

On  medium  heat,  dissolve  sugar  in  water.  Add  peanuts  and  stir 

while  cooking.  After  15  to  20  minutes,  sugar  water  will  turn  to  sugar, 

:oating  peanuts.  Remove  from  heat,  put  into  greased  9  x  13-inch  pan 

ind  bake  at  300°  for  30  minutes,  stirring  at  5  minute  intervals.  Three 

>ounds  peanuts  make  about  10  cups. 

Karin  Binkley 

MICROWAVE  PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE 

1  sticks  margarine  1  box  powdered  sugar 

5  oz.  crunchy  peanut  butter 

In  large  bowl  put  2  sticks  margarine  and  peanut  butter.  Micro- 
wave on  Medium  (50)  1  minute.  Mix  well.  Microwave  on  High  for  3 
o  6  minutes  until  bubbly.  Stir  in  1  pound  box  powdered  sugar  quick- 
er. Press  in  ungreased  dish.  Refrigerate  until  firm. 

Doris  Ward 

t 

\  CREOLE  PRALINES 

k  c.  granulated  sugar  1  c.  milk 

i  c.  dark  brown  sugar  2  Tbsp.  dark  corn  syrup 

i  lb.  butter  4  c.  pecan  halves 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  pecans  in  heavy  3  quart  sauce- 
3  an.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  for  20  minutes  after  syrup  boils.  Add 

ecans  and  continue  cooking  until  mixture  reaches  236°  on  a  candy 
"hermometer  or  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold 

'ater.  Arrange  several  sheets  of  wax  paper  over  layers  of  newspaper. 

tir  praline  mixture  well.  Drop  it  by  tablespoons  onto  sheets  of  wax 

aper.  Let  cool.  Stack  pralines  in  airtight  container  with  wax  paper 

etween  layers.  Yields  30  to  36  pralines. 

Lucille  S.  James 


4369  -  145  - 


DESSERTS 


OLD  FASHIONED  PEANUT  BRITTLE 


2  c.  white  sugar 

1  c.  white  corn  syrup 
V4  c.  water 

2  c.  raw  peanuts 


1  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  vinegar 


Combine  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  in  large  (4  quart)  heavy 
saucepan.  Cook  to  soft  ball  stage.  Add  raw,  shelled  peanuts  and  cool$ 
until  syrup  darkens  (tan  colored).  Remove  from  heat.  Add  baking 
soda,  salt  and  vinegar.  Stir  quickly  and  well.  Pour  into  buttered 
shallow  pan  (cookie  sheet  with  sides).  Cool.  Break  into  pieces  anc 
store  in  airtight  container. 

Margie  Lamb 


GOLF  BALLS 


1  stick  margarine 

1  c.  brown  sugar 

8  oz.  chopped  dates 

2  c.  Rice  Krispies 


1  c.  coconut  (Angel  Flake) 
1  c.  finely  chopped  nuts 
powdered  sugar 


Cook  margarine,  brown  sugar  and  chopped  dates  slowly  for  i 
minutes.  Stir  in  Rice  Krispies,  coconut  and  chopped  nuts.  Wher 
cool,  roll  into  balls  and  roll  balls  in  powdered  sugar  until  coated. 

Evelyn  Reec 

CAPPUCCINO  CANDY 


2  c.  sugar 

Vi  c.  margarine 

1  c.  evaporated  milk 

1  (12  oz.)  semi-sweet  chocolate  bits 

1  (7  oz.)  jar  Marshmallow  Creme 


1  c.  chopped  nuts 

1  Tbsp.  grated  orange  rind 

1  Tbsp.  instant  coffee  granules 

2  tsp.  orange  flavoring  or  juice 
2  tsp.  brandy  flavoring 


Combine  sugar,  margarine  and  milk  in  heavy  2  V2  quart  sauce 
pan.  Bring  to  a  full  rolling  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  froir 
heat;  stir  in  chocolate  bits.  Stir  until  melted.  Add  Marshmallow 
Creme,  nuts,  orange  rind,  instant  coffee  and  flavoring.  Beat  unti 
well  blended.  Pour  into  a  greased  13  x  9-inch  pan.  Cool  at  room  tern 
perature.  Cut  into  squares. 

Roberta  Franklir 

-146- 


; 


DESSERTS 

OHIO  BUCKEYES 

h.  box  powdered  sugar  6  oz.  chocolate  chips 

k  c.  butter  V2  slab  paraffin  wax 

h.  c.  peanut  butter 

Cut  butter  into  sugar  in  a  large  bowl.  Mix  until  well  blended. 
Mix  in  peanut  butter.  Usingclean  hands,  roll  into  inch  balls  and  chill 
:br  10  minutes.  Melt  chocolate  chips  and  paraffin  wax  in  double  boil- 
er. Dip  ball  with  toothpick  in  the  chocolate,  leaving  space  for  the  eye. 
'Chill  for  10  minutes. 

Shannon  Daniels 


CRAN-APPLES 

5  medium  apples,  quartered  and  V*  c.  water 

peeled  2  sticks  butter  or  margarine 

I  c.  cranberries  2  c.  quick-cook  oatmeal,  uncooked 

Va  c.  sugar  Vz  c.  brown  sugar 

Grease  a  large  casserole  dish  with  margarine.  The  dish  should 

De  flat  enough  to  spread  apples.  Put  apples  in  dish.  Put  cranberries 

Dver  and  around  the  apples.  Sprinkle  sugar,  then  pour  water  on  last. 

^Vfelt  2  sticks  margarine;  add  oatmeal  and  brown  sugar.   Mix  well. 

Sprinkle  over  apples.  A  pretty  holiday  dish!  Bake  one  hour  at  350°. 

Nancy  Reece 


CHRISTMAS  DESSERT 

I  c.  flour  1  c.  confectioners  sugar 

?Tbsp.  sugar  1c.  Cool  Whip 

1  stick  margarine  2  pkg.  instant  pistachio  pudding 

1  c.  chopped  nuts  2  c.  milk 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

(softened) 

1. 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  margarine  and  nuts.  Bake  at  350°  in  a  13  x 
9-inch  Pyrex  dish  until  light  brown.  Cool.  Mix  cream  cheese  and  con- 
fectioners sugar.  Fold  in  Cool  Whip.  Spread  over  cooled  crust.  Mix 

]pudding  and  milk.  Spread  over  cream  cheese  layer.  Spread  remain- 
ing carton  of  Cool  Whip  over  top  and  sprinkle  with  fresh  coconut  and 

''red  cherries. 


154369  -147 


DESSERTS 


Note:  Use  regular  size  pudding  and  large  Cool  Whip. 


Ruby  Petrei  rt 


dough  recipe 
Rome  apples 
butter 

Spiced  Syrup: 

1  Vfe  c.  water 
1  Vz  c.  sugar 
V<3tsp.  cinnamon 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

brown  sugar 
cinnamon 
nuts,  chopped 


Votsp.  nutmeg 
3  Tbsp.  butter 


Peel  and  core  apples.  Roll  dough  on  floured  surface  the  thick 
nessu9ed  for  pie  crust.  Cut  circle  of  crust.  Place  apple  in  center.  Fill 
center  with  combination  of  butter,  sugar,  nuts  and  cinnamon.  Place 
in  low  sided  pan.  Combine  syrup  ingredients  except  butter.  Stir 
until  sugar  dissolves.  Reduce  syrup  to  1  Vz  cups.  Add  butter.  Pour 
to  V2-inch  over  apples.  Bake  at  425°  for  25  minutes  until  tender 
with  fork. 

Pam  Soulherland 


APPLE  CRISP 


4  c.  sliced  apples 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Vs  c.  flour 
1  tsp.  cinnamon 


1  c.  uncooked  oatmeal 
Vz  c.  brown  sugar 
V2  tsp.  salt 
Vfe  c.  melted  butter 


Grease  baking  dish.  Put  apples  in  the  dish.  Combine  dry  ingre- 
dients; add  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  until  crumbly.  Sprinkle  over 
apples  and  bake  at  350°  for  1  hour.  Use  1  large  baking  dish  or  2  small 
pie  pans.  Serves  10. 

Lib  Steelman 


MERINGUE  MUSHROOMS 


4  egg  whites  (at  room  temperature) 

V4  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Vfe  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vaniila  extract 


1  c.  sugar 

Vz  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 

cinnamon-sugar  mixture 


-148 


DESSERTS 

Preheat  oven  to  225°.  Line  2  cookie  sheets  with  foil.  Beat  egg 
whites,  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  until  soft  peaks  form.  Gradually  add 
ranilla  extract  and  sugar,  2  tablespoons  at  a  time.  Continue  beating 
or  5  minutes  until  sugar  is  completely  dissolved  and  stiff  peaks  form. 
rit  a  pastry  bag  with  Vfc-inch  plain  tip.  Spoon  meringue  into  bag. 

For  Stems:  Hold  tube  vertically,  close  to  foil,  pressing  tube  gent- 
y  while  slowly  raising  bag  straight  up.  Make  stems  1  to  1  Vz  inches 
nigh. 

For  Caps:  Place  tube  close  to  foil,  hold  bag  vertically  and  press 
neringue  out  to  form  mound.  Smooth  tops  of  caps  with  finger. 
Sprinkle  with  cinnamon-sugar  mixture.  Make  30  stems  and  30  caps. 
Jake  on  lower  rack  of  oven  for  1  hour.  Turn  oven  off,  but  leave  stems 
ind  caps  in  the  oven  with  door  slightly  ajar  until  cool.  Melt  chocolate 
:hips,  spread  on  underside  of  caps  and  "glue"  stem  to  cap,  letting 
hem  rest  upside-down  until  chocolate  is  dry. 

Bonny  McNally 

: 

OZARK  PUDDING 

i 

egg  Vs  tsp.  salt 

A  c.  sugar  Vfe  c.  chopped  nuts 

I  heaping  Tbsp.  flour  1  c.  chopped  apples 

Va  tsp.  baking  powder  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs;  add  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Sift  flour,  baking 
)owder  and  salt.  Add  to  egg  mixture  and  blend.  Fold  in  apples,  nuts 
md  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased  dish.  Bake  at  325°  for  30  minutes. 

Cleo  Smith 


CREAMY  RICE  PUDDING 

j 

\/2  c.  uncooked  rice  Vfe  c.  seedless  raisins  (if  desired) 

Jc.  boiling  water  2  eggs 

I  V2  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

'I  V3  c.  (1 5  oz.)  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  Va  tsp.  nutmeg 

Put  rice,  water  and  salt  into  heavy  2  quart  saucepan.  Cover  and 
:ook  over  medium  heat  until  water  boils.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer 
intil  rice  is  tender,  about  15  minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in 
Sagle  Brand  milk  and  raisins.  Beat  eggs  just  until  blended.  Add 
gradually,  while  stirring  briskly,  to  rice-milk  mixture.  Return  to  low 
leat  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  coats  a  metal  spoon. 

.64389  -149- 


DESSERTS 

Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  vanilla  extract  and  nutmeg.  Serve  hot  oi 
chilled.  Makes  eight  V2  cup  servings. 

Peggy  H.  Bowlei 

BUTTER  BALLS 

2  sticks  butter  1  %  c.  all-purpose  flour,  sifted 

V2  c.  powdered  sugar  V2  c.  chopped  pecans 

Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  powdered  sugar  until  fluffy.  Blend  in  vanilh 
and  flour  and  stir  in  chopped  nuts.  Chill  several  hours  for  ease  ir 
handling.  Shape  into  balls  1-inch  in  diameter.  Bake  20  minutes  ir 
preheated  350°  oven.  Roll  balls  while  warm  in  powdered  sugar  anc 
again  when  cool.  Yields  3  dozen. 

Janice  Syket 

WILD  CARAMEL  DELIGHT 

Eagle  Brand  milk  nuts 

maraschino  cherries  whipped  topping 

Completely  submerge  1  (or  how  many  you  desire)  can(s)  oj 
Eagle  Brand  milk  in  a  pan  of  water;  do  not  open  can.  When  watei 
comes  to  a  boil,  turn  down  heat  to  the  simmer  point.  Boil  for  4  hours 
Let  cool.  Open  can  and  spoon  out  caramel  pudding.  Add  maraschinc 
cherries  and  nuts.  Serve  with  whipped  topping. 

This  dessert  is  very  rich  and  requires  the  whipped  topping  to  cul 
the  richness. 

Betty  S  iron  man 

CHERRY  YUM  YUM 

2  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs  Vb  c.  sugar 

1  stick  margarine,  melted  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  small  pkg.  cream  cheese  9  oz.  container  Cool  Whip 
(softened) 

Beat  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Fold  into  9  ounce  bowl  Cool 
Whip.  Line  square  pan  with  graham  cracker  mixture.  Spread  half  oi 
cream  cheese  mixture  over  crust,  spread  1  can  cherry  pie  filling  over 


150- 


DESSERTS 

"this.  Add  remaining  cream  cheese  mixture.   Sprinkle  top  with  gra- 
ham cracker  crumbs.  Refrigerate.  Cut  in  squares. 
i|  Kate  Dockery 

DATE   NUT  BALLS 

1  small  pkg.  pitted  dates  1  egg,  beaten 

to  c.  sugar  1  Vz  c.  Rice  Krispies 

to  c.  coconut  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

4  Tbsp.  margarine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Place  dates,  sugar,  coconut,  margarine,  egg,  nuts  and  vanilla  in 
skillet  and  cook  until  bubbly,  5  to  10  minutes.  Add  Rice  Knspies.  Let 
icool,  roll  in  balls  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Roberta  Franklin 

EASY  CHEESE  DANISH 

2  cans  crescent  rolls  1  tsp.  vanilla 
2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese                       2  egg  yolks 
y-tc.  sugar 

Press  1  can  rolls  in  bottom  of  9  x  13-inch  pan.    Mix  cream 
cheese,  sugar,  vanilla  and  one  egg  yolk  until  fluffy.  Spread  on  top  of 
irolls.  Top  with  other  can  of  rolls.  Brush  with  other  egg  yolk.  Bake 
jat  375°  for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until  brown. 

Helen  Steel  man 

FRUIT  AND  OAT  BARS 

t| 

'2  c.  Quaker  oats  (quick  or  to  c.  chopped  nuts 

old-fashioned),  uncooked  to  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

"1  c.  all-purpose  flour  to  tsp.  baking  soda 

■%c.  margarine  or  butter,  melted  1  (12  to  16  oz.)  jar  favorite  fruit 
to  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar  preserves 

Heat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  11  x  7-inch  glass  baking  dish.  Com- 
bine all  ingredients,  except  preserves;  mix  well.  Reserve  about  1  cup 
oats  mixture;  press  remaining  mixture  onto  bottom  of  prepared  dish. 
Bake  10  minutes.  Spread  preserves  evenly  over  partially  baked  base 
to  within  Viz-inch  of  edge  of  pan;  sprinkle  with  reserved  oats  mixture. 

;Bake  20  to  22  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.   Cool;  cut  into  bars. 

: Store  tightly  covered  at  room  temperature. 

Betty  Ashby 

164389  -  151  - 


DESSERTS 


PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE  ICE  CREAM 


Vz  c.  chunky  peanut  butter 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  c.  whipping  cream 


6  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate 

chips 
2  c.  milk 
1  c.  sugar 

In  medium  saucepan,  combine  chocolate  chips,  milk  and  sugar 
Stir  over  low  heat  until  chocolate  melts.  Stir  in  peanut  butter.  Cool 
to  room  temperature.  Stir  in  vanilla  and  whipping  cream.  Pour  into 
ice  cream  canister.  Freeze  according  to  manufacturer's  directions. 
Makes  2  quarts. 

Penny  Petree  Goods 

HEAVENLY  CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 


12  (1  %  oz.  each)  Milky  Way  bars, 

cut  into  pieces 
14  oz.  can  Eagle  brand  milk 


3qt.  milk 

5.5  oz.  can  Hershey's  chocolate 
syrup 


Combine  candy  and  Eagle  Brand  milk  in  a  large  saucepan;  cook 
over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  candy  is  melted  and  mixture 
is  smooth  (may  require  beating  with  a  hand  mixer  to  get  smooth) 
Pour  mixture  into  freezer  can  of  1  gallon  freezer.  Stir  in  chocolate 
syrup.  Add  enough  milk  to  fill  container  to  within  4  inches  of  top. 
Freeze  according  to  manufacturer's  directions.  Yields  1  gallon. 

Peggy  H.  Bowles 
PRALINE  ICE  CREAM  SAUCE 


1  c.  light  brown  sugar 
Va  c.  light  corn  syrup 

Vz  c.  half  and  half  or  evaporated  milk 

2  Tbsp.  margarine 


1  tsp.  vanilla 

Vb  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  pecan  halves 


Combine  all  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Cook  over  medium  heat, 
stirring  constantly,  for  10  minutes  or  until  thick  and  smooth.  (Do  not 
microwave!)  Cool  slightly.  Serve  over  vanilla  ice  cream.  Makes  1  Vz 
cups. 

Note:  Can  store  in  covered  container  in  refrigerator  for  several 
days.  Before  serving,  add  small  amount  of  cream,  then  heat,  stirring 
until  smooth. 

Patti  Petree 


-152- 


<£3K)DiUte 


■    Drawn  bvj 
Adawn  Baldwin 


^dmn  b\J 


1543-9 


KIDS  &  DADS 


COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

0  oz.  catsup  1  Vb-inch  quartered  lemon  slice 

slice  thin  onion  2  Tbsp.  prepared  horseradish 

1 1(1 -inch)  slices  celery 

In  a  blender  or  food  processor,  combine  all  ingredients  and 
i'lend  until  smooth.  Chill  and  serve  with  shrimp  or  crabmeat.  (Chili 
auce  may  be  substituted  for  catsup.) 

Tom  Dawson 

COCKTAIL  MEATBALLS 

lb.  lean  ground  beef  2  eggs 

(C.  dry  bread  crumbs  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1 3  c.  dehydrated  onions  1  jar  chili  sauce 

zc.  milk  10  oz.  jar  grape  jelly 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  chili  sauce  and  jelly.  Form  into 

-inch  balls  and  brown  in  2  tablespoons  oil.   Mix  chili  sauce  with 

'crape  jelly.  Melt  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Add  meatballs  and  sim- 

ner  slowly  for  10  minutes.   Serve  warm.  Makes  approximately  75 

»alls. 

C.  V.  Whitt 


COCKTAIL  FRANKS 

!tsp.  dry  mustard  tec.  vinegar 

i  Tbsp.  flour  1  c.  pineapple  juice 

c.  brown  sugar  4  pkg.  Little  Smokies 

Vz  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  Smokies.   Cook  until  thick.  Add  4 
packages  Little  Smokies. 

C.  V.  Whitt 


TIP'S  CHEESE  BALL 


!  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  3  tsp.  milk 

*2  lb.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese  y«  c.  chopped  olives 

pkg.  Lipton  onion  soup  mix  Vac.  pecan  pieces 


54389  -153 


KIDS   &  DADS 

Let  cream  cheese  come  to  room  temperature.  Mix  all  ingredi 
ents  well,  except  pecans.  Shape  into  2  balls,  then  roll  in  pecan  pieces 
Allow  to  set  in  refrigerator  for  at  least  2  hours  before  serving,  but 
serve  at  room  temperature.  Can  be  frozen,  but  keeps  well  in  refriger 
ator  if  wrapped. 

Tom  Dawson 


\ 


CHEESE-NUT  SPREAD 

8  oz.  pieces  Cheddar  cheese  1  c.  pecans 

4  oz.  pieces  Roquefort  3  Tbsp.  heavy  cream 

4  oz.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  Tabasco  sauce 

4  Tbsp.  butter  1  clove  garlic 

Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Cream  together  the 
cheeses,  butter,  nuts,  heavy  cream,  Tabasco  and  garlic  until  well 
mixed.  Stop  machine  2  to  3  times  to  scrape  down  container  or  bowl 
sides.  Pack  mixture  into  oiled  mold  and  chill  until  firm.  Then 
unmold  on  a  serving  plate  or  store  in  crocks.  Serve  with  crackers  or 
toast  points. 

Tom  Dawson 


BEST  PIMENTO  CHEESE 

l 
2  lb.  medium  sharp  Cheddar  cheese  1  Tbsp.  seasoned  salt 

2  lb.  New  York  sharp  Cheddar  3  c.  mayonnaise 

3  oz.  Parmesan  cheese  1  can  evaporated  milk 

Yz  tsp.  black  pepper  2  jars  (7  oz.  each)  chopped 

Ya  tsp.  hot  pepper  sauce  or  Yz  tsp.  pimentos,  undrained 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire 

Coarsely  grate  cheeses.    Mix  remaining  ingredients.  Add  to 
cheese  mixture.  Can  use  food  processor.  Makes  over  3  Vz  quarts.  En-It 

joy  and  share.  ;! 

i 
Carl  Southerland1 


DEVILED  HAM  DIP 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  Yz  tsp.  liquid  onion  juice 

Yz  c.  mayonnaise  Ya  tsp.  Worcestershire 

1  (2  Yz  oz.)  can  deviled  ham  Yz  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  pimento  Ya  tsp.  pepper 


154-  h 


KIDS   &   DADS 


Combine  all  ingredients.   Serve  with  crackers. 

Tom  Dawson 

CRAB  DIP 

-  oz.  shredded  American  cheese  horseradish  to  taste 

>  lb.  crabmeat  salt  to  taste 

oz.  French  dressing  1  pt.  mayonnaise 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Yields  1  quart. 


C.  V.  Whitt 


CHIPPED  BEEF  DIP 

(8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream  1  small  jar  dried  beef,  cut  into  small 
(8  oz.)  container  soft  cream  pieces 

cheese  1  medium  onion,  chopped  or  1 
/  green  pepper,  chopped  bunch  green  onions 

Mix  all  together.    Better  if  allowed  to  stand  in  refrigerator 
vernight. 

Louie  Skidmore 

BAKED  POTATO  SOUP 

medium  potatoes,  peeled  and  Vitsp.  pepper 

diced  2  Tbsp.  dried  parsley  flakes 

small  onion,  chopped  2  chicken  bouillon  cubes 

stalk  celery,  chopped  4  c.  water 

tsp.  celery  salt  4  slices  bacon 

tsp.  seasoned  salt  2  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 

tsp.  dried  whole  basil  1  Yz  c.  milk 

j  Mix  potatoes,  onion,  celery,  celery  salt,  seasoned  salt,  basil,  pep- 
Ter,  parsley  flakes,  bouillon  cubes  and  water  in  a  large  Dutch  oven. 
Iring  to  a  boil.  Cover,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Cook 
?acon  in  a  large  skillet  until  crisp;  remove  bacon,  reserving  3  table- 
poons  drippings  in  skillet.  Crumble  bacon  and  set  aside.  Add  flour 
d  drippings  in  skillet;  stir  until  smooth.  Cook  1  minute,  stirring  con- 
tantly.  Gradually  add  milk.  Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  con- 
tantly  until  thickened  and  bubbly.  Gradually  stir  milk  mixture  and 
aeon  into  potato  mixture.  Simmer  uncovered  15  minutes.  Serve 
nth  grated  cheese  on  top.  Yields  2  quarts. 

C.  V.  Whitt 


i4389  -155 


KIDS   &  DADS 

PEANUT  BUTTER  SOUP 

1  c.  mi!k  2  Tbsp.  smooth  peanut  butter 

(low-priced  brands  work  best) 

Put  peanut  butter  into  cold  milk  in  saucepan.  Heat,  stirrinj 
constantly,  until  peanut  butter  dissolves.  Do  not  boil.  Makes  1  serv 
ing.  Can  be  doubled,  tripled  or  quadrupled.  Very  rich.  Serve  wi 
crackers. 

Don  McNai1) 


CAESAR  SALAD 

romaine  lettuce  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire 

tomatoes  Vo  c.  lemon  juice  (freshly  squeezed) 

2  to  3  cloves  garlic  pepper 

Vs  c.  olive  oil  Parmesan  cheese 

1  can  anchovies  croutons 

1  beaten  egg 

Prepare  lettuce  and  tomatoes.  Press  garlic  into  olive  oil  and  se 
aside.  Combine  beaten  egg,  Worcestershire,  lemon  juice  and  fin  el] 
chopped  anchovies.  Pour  garlic  oil  mixture  and  other  mixture  ove 
vegetables  alternately  when  ready  to  serve.  Add  pepper,  Parmesar 
cheese  and  croutons  to  taste. 

Note:  Do  not  make  ahead. 

Bill  and  Ana  Been 


ONION  RINGS 

1  large  onion,  sliced  into  thick  rings  dash  of  salt 

1  c.  beer  (at  room  temperature)  cooking  oil 
1  c.  plus  1  Tbsp.  flour 


Heat  oil  in  electric  frypan.  Mix  beer  and  flour.  Add  dash  of  salt 1 
Dip  onion  rings  in  batter  and  then  drop  into  hot  oil.  Fry  until  goldei 
brown.  These  can  be  placed  in  a  warm  oven  and  will  stay  crisp  unti 
you  have  finished  frying  all  rings.   If  batter  does  not  stay  on  rings  t 
then  increase  the  amount  of  flour,  adding  a  small  amount  at  a  time  n 
until  the  right  consistency. 

C.  V.  Whit  i 


156 


)i 


KIDS   &   DADS 


ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 


c.  chopped  onion 
cloves  minced  garlic 
lb.  cooked  ground  beef 
can  (28  oz.)  tomatoes 
(6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste 
Tbsp.  sugar 
tsp.  crushed  bouillon 
tsp.  crushed  oregano 


V5>  tsp.  crushed  basil 
1  large  bay  leaf 

1  (4  oz.)  sliced  mushrooms 

2  Tbsp.  cornstarch 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

Vb  tsp.  coarse  pepper 
12  oz.  water 


H 


In  electric  slow  crockery  cooker  combine  onion,  garlic,  toma- 
oes,  tomato  paste,  sugar,  bouillon,  oregano,  basil,  bay  leaf,  salt  and 
>epper.  Stir  in  water,  cover  and  cook  on  low  heat  setting  for  10  to  12 
lours.  Turn  to  high  heat  setting.  Remove  bay  leaf;  stir  in  mush- 
rooms and  beef.  Blend  2  tablespoons  cold  water  into  the  cornstarch; 
i  tir  into  sauce.  Cover.  Cook  until  thickened  and  bubbly,  about  25 
ninutes. 

Tom  Dawson 


CHEESE,  ONION  AND  BEEF  ENCHILADAS 


lb.  ground  beef 
;i  doz.  corn  tortillas 

lb.  Cheddar  cheese 

large  onion 

tsp.  garlic  powder 
-i  tsp.  cumin 


1.5  oz.  can  chili  powder 

6  Tbsp.  flour 

4  Tbsp.  cooking  oil 

2  Vz  tsp.  salt 

3Y2  c.  water 


Brown  beef  in  skillet.  Add  2  tablespoons  flour.  Sprinkle  garlic 
>owder  and  cumin  into  meat.  Add  2  teaspoons  chili  powder.  Mix 
ogether  and  continue  to  simmer.  Add  Vz  cup  water  and  1  teaspoon 
salt.  Chop  onion  and  grate  cheese;  mix  together. 

Prepare  enchilada  sauce.  In  frypan  place  4  tablespoons  cooking 
:  il  and  heat.  Add  4  tablespoons  flour.  Brown  mixture  like  gravy  by 
ilowly  raising  the  heat.  Add  3  cups  water  and  V2  can  of  chili  powder 
.approximately  3A  ounce).  Add  1  V2  teaspoons  salt.  Mix  together.  In 
Jx  13-inch  Pyrex  dish,  spoon  thin  layer  of  enchilada  sauce  to  prevent 
Sticking.  Dip  tortillas,  one  at  a  time  into  sauce  and  lay  in  pan.  Stuff 
vith  meat  and  cheese/onion  mixture  and  roll.  Repeat  until  pan  is  full 
approximately  8  per  pan),  then  go  on  to  the  next  pan.  Use  3  (9  x  13- 
irich)  Pyrex  dishes. 


34389 


-157- 


KIDS   &  DADS 


Note:  Add  water  as  necessary  if  sauce  thickens.  After  all  an 
rolled,  pour  remaining  sauce  over  enchiladas  and  sprinkle  remaining 
cheese/onion  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  15  to  20  minutes  and  chees^ 
is  melted. 


Steve  Jonei 


FLANK  STEAK  BARBECUE 


2  !b.  beef  flank  steak,  te-inch  thick 
1  tetsp.  garlic  salt 
1  tsp.  oregano  leaves 


3  Tbsp.  salad  oil 

2  Tbsp.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 

8  oz.  can  tomato  juice 


Score  each  side  of  meat  Vs-inch  deep  in  diamond  pattern.  Plact 
meat  in  shallow  glass  dish.  Mix  garlic  salt,  oregano  leaves  and  oil 
spread  on  meat.  Drizzle  vinegar  over  meat.  Cover  and  refrigerate  a( 
least  1  hour.  Open  can  of  tomato  sauce.  Cook  meat  on  grill  4  inches 
from  hot  coals.  Cook  5  minutes  on  each  side,  basting  frequently  wit! 
tomato  sauce.  To  serve,  cut  steak  diagonally  across  the  grain  int( 
thin  slices. 

Mark  Bardoi 

PAPA'S  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 


1  Va  c.  finely  chopped  onions 

2  lb.  ground  beef 

8  oz.  can  mushrooms 
2  to  3  lb.  canned  tomatoes 
2  to  4  cloves  minced  garlic 
24  oz.  tomato  sauce 


12  oz.  tomato  paste 
1  Tbsp.  salt 

1  to  2  tsp.  Italian  seasoning 
Vz  lb.  shredded  rat  cheese  (optional 
to  thicken  sauce) 


Cook  beef  until  not  red.  Add  onions  and  cook  until  limp.  Adc 
other  ingredients  and  simmer  several  hours,  stirring  occasionally 
Serve  over  cooked  spaghetti.  My!  My!  Makes  12  servings  wit! 
seconds. 

George  Lami 

BEEF  ROLL-UPS 


1  pkg.  Wise  green  onion  dip  mix 

(.056  oz.) 
1  carton  softened  cream  cheese 


Carl  Budding  sandwich  type  meat 
(can  use  beef  or  ham) 


-158- 


KIDS   &   DADS 

Mix  onion  dip  and  cream  cheese  thoroughly.   Spread  thinly  on 
slices  of  meat.  Roll  up  jelly  roll  fashion.  Cut  each  roll  into  4  pieces. 
Refrigerate  until  ready  to  serve.  The  packs  of  onion  dip  mix  can  usu- 
illy  be  found  in  the  potato  chip  section. 

j  C.  V.  Whitt 

BOB  SELLER'S  GRILLED  CHICKEN 

I  chickens,  cut  into  serving  pieces  4  sticks  margarine,  melted  in  small 

pot 

Charcoal  grill  with  adjustable  top  is  best.   Soak  chicken  pieces 

n  salt  water  overnight,  drain  and  dry  off  excess  water.  Place  pieces 

:>n  grill  top  which  has  been  sprayed  with  Pam.  Have  a  good  bed  of  hot 

;harcoal  ready  and  have  grill  top  at  highest  level.  With  pastry  brush, 

3baste  chicken  with  the  melted  margarine.  Turn  chicken  frequently 

Band  baste  each  piece  when  you  turn  it.  Cook  slowly  at  highest  level 

]from  fire  at  all  times.  Takes  about  1  hour  to  cook  thickest  pieces. 

Bob  Sellers 

1  EASY  VEAL  PARMESAN 

/eal  chops  or  chicken  Parmesan  cheese 

Dread  crumbs  Mozzarella  cheese 

canned  spaghetti  sauce 

Bread  the  veal  chops  and  fry  in  pan.  Place  veal  in  baking  dish. 
Spoon  on   spaghetti  sauce.    Sprinkle  Parmesan  and  Mozzarella 

p 

:heese  on  top.  Bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Fred  Crater 

*  JAKE'S  BARBECUE  SAUCE 

j1  qt.  vinegar  6  oz.  mustard 

1  lb.  margarine  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

2  V2  oz.  Worcestershire  Va  tsp.  salt  per  chicken  half 

3  oz.  horseradish  Va  tsp.  pepper  per  chicken  half 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Simmer  for  45  min- 
utes. Place  chicken  on  charcoal  grill  and  cook  slowly,  approximately 
1  Vz  to  2  hours,  basting  frequently  with  sauce.  This  amount  of  sauce 
is  for  10  to  12  halves. 

Jake  Fouts 


154389  -159- 


KIDS  &  DADS 

WAFFLES 

2  c.  Bisquick  1  ft  c.  club  soda  (at  room 

1  egg  temperature) 
ft  c.  Wesson  oil 

Mix  all  ingredients,  adding  club  soda  last.  Bake  in  he 
waffle  iron. 

C.  V.  Wh< 

DAVID'S  ORIGINAL  PIE 

2  precooked  pie  shells  2  eggs 

2  heaping  Tbsp.  creamy  peanut  2  oz.  unsweetened  baking 
butter  chocolate,  melted 

14  oz.  Marshmallow  Creme  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

V4C.  milk 

With  mixer,  cream  together  peanut  butter,  3  heaping  tabk 
spoonfuls  Marshmallow  Creme  and  milk.  Spread  mixture  on  the  boi 
torn  of  cooled  pie  shells.  Lightly  beat  2  eggs  in  a  bowl.  Add  chocolate 
10  ounces  of  the  Marshmallow  Creme  and  sugar.  Beat  together  unt 
smooth  consistency.  Pour  mixture  over  peanut  butter  layer.  Bak 
pies  at  375°  for  20  minutes.  Cool  and  serve.  Yields  2  pies. 

David  Dawso 

ORANGE  FRUITCAKE 

%  c.  shortening  3  c.  sifted  flour 

1  c.  sugar  1  ft  tsp.  soda 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  salt 
1  ft  c.  dates,  chopped  fine  1  c.  buttermilk 
1  c.  nuts,  chopped  fine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  orange  peel,  ground 

Cream  together  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs;  beat  afte 
each  is  added.  Add  dates,  nuts  and  orange  peel.  Combine  flour,  sod, 
and  salt.  Add  alternately  with  dry  ingredients,  buttermilk  and  vanil 
la.  Bake  at  300°  for  one  hour.  After  removing  from  cake  tins,  am 
while  still  hot,  pour  over  the  topping.  Age  cake  24  hours.  Will  keej 

2  to  3  weeks. 

This  is  a  Slagle,  as  in  Carl  Slagle  Southerland,  tradition.  W« 
always  make  small  loaves  and  tie  with  bows  for  our  Christmas 

-160- 


KIDS   &   DADS 

presents  to  friends.  ASlagle  tradition  from  our  family  to  yours.  Hap- 
py holiday. 

Topping: 

Vz  c.  orange  juice  grated  rind  of  1  orange 

%c.  sugar 


Stir  until  well  dissolved. 


Carl  Southerland 


SOUTHERN  PECAN  PIE 

(Old  Family  Recipe) 

1  (9-inch)- unbaked  shell  2  large  eggs 

V^c.  sugar  Vitsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  dark  corn  syrup  1  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

Va  tsp.  salt  1  c.  whole  pecans 
1  Tbsp.  flour 

In  food  processor,  blend  together  sugar,  syrup,  salt,  flour  and 
eggs.  Add  vanilla  and  butter  and  blend.  Pour  into  mixing  bowl  and 
blend  in  pecan  halves,  turning  up  top  ones  to  enhance  appearance. 
Bake  in  preheated  oven  at  300°  for  about  1  hour.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream,  if  desired.  (If  brown  crust  is  desired,  brush  shell  with  undilut- 
ed evaporated  milk  before  baking.) 

John  Dawson  III 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  c.  shortening  3  c.  flour 

2  c.  white  sugar  %  Tbsp.  salt 

2  c.  brown  sugar  %  Tbsp.  soda 

jj<  4  eggs  6  c.  oatmeal  (old-fashioned) 
1  %  Tbsp.  vanilla 

Cream  shortening,  white  sugar  and  brown  sugar.  Add  eggs  and 
f  vanilla  to  creamed  mixture,  beating  well.  Add  flour,  salt  and  soda, 
i  Blend  in  oatmeal.  Roll  and  bake  at  350°,  refrigerate  or  freeze. 

This  recipe  is  Carl's.  He  got  it  from  an  old  woman  who  used  to 
1  bake  in  the  school  system.    It's  super  cookies  about  3-inches  in 
diameter.  He  mixes  the  cookies,  then  puts  in  foil  and  puts  them  in 


154369  -161 


KIDS   &  DADS 

the  freezer.    Cut  V2-inch  slices  (frozen)  whenever  you  want  fresh 
cookies.  The  kids  love  for  him  to  add  M&M's  or  chocolate  chips. 

Carl  Southerlan 


° 


ALMOND  CRESCENTS 


Vz  lb.  butter  2  tsp.  vanilla  " 

Vz  lb.  chopped  pecans  2  c.  cake  flour  : ' 

Vz  c.  powdered  sugar  pi 


Mix  well.  Take  about  1  tablespoon  batter  and  roll  in  palms 
Shape  in  crescent  form.  Bake  on  greased  cookie  sheet  for  15  minutes 
at  375°.  Cover  with  powdered  sugar. 

Tom  Dawson 

CHEESECAKE 

2  Tbsp.  melted  butter  Vz  c.  sugar 

12  oz.  room  temperature  cream  2  large  eggs 

cheese  Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  room  temperature  cottage  1  (9-inch)  graham  cracker  crust 

cheese 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Place  the  steel  blade  in  the  food  processor 
and  put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  bowl,  including  the  butter.  Process 
until  very  smooth.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie  shell  and  bake  for 
30  minutes.  Cool  the  cake  in  the  oven  with  the  door  propped  open 
until  it  is  at  room  temperature.  Chill. 

Tom  Dawson 
V 

DADDY'S  COOKIES 

1  c.  butter  Vs  tsp.  salt 

%  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  almond  extract 

1  egg  food  coloring 

2  Vzc.  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  egg  and  mix.  Sift  togeth- 
er dry  ingredients.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  butter  mixture.  Mix  and 
add  almond  extract.  Add  food  colorings  to  dough  as  desired  for  col 
ored  cookies.   Use  cookie  press  to  form  different  shapes  (i.e.  stars/ 
hearts,  Christmas  trees,  etc.)  Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheets  for  6»j 
to  10  minutes  at  400°.  I 

John  Petree 


-162- 


KIDS   &   DADS 

MONROE'S  PEACH  COBBLER 

„  c.  Bisquick  1  c.  milk 

'i  c.  sugar  1  stick  margarine 

Place  stick  of  margarine  in  8  x  8  x  2-inch  pan  and  put  in  325° 
iven  until  margarine  is  bubbling.  Mix  Bisquick,  sugar  and  milk  and 
et  aside.  When  margarine  is  bubbling,  remove  pan  from  oven  and 
>our  Bisquick  mixture  into  pan.  Scatter  peaches  on  top  of  mixture, 
tut  do  not  stir.  Peaches  will  go  to  the  bottom  by  themselves.  Bake  in 
!25°  oven  for  about  1  hour.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Monroe  Bowles 


BANANA  MILKSHAKE 

Vz  c.  cold  milk  2  packets  Equal  sweetener  or  1 

large  banana  heaping  Tbsp.  sugar 

4  ice  cubes 

First,  pour  milk  in  blender.  Next  add  ice.  Then,  finally,  split 
tanana  in  half  and  put  on  top  of  ice.  Blend  until  smooth.  Last  of  all 
).dd  sweetener  and  mix. 

Jeff Souther/and 


GINGERBREAD  MEN 

c.  flour  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

tsp.  baking  soda  1  c.  shortening 

tsp.  baking  powder  1  c.  sugar 

tsp.  ginger  1  c.  molasses 

tsp.  cloves  2  egg  yolks 

Sift  flour  with  salt,  soda,  baking  powder  and  spices.  Cream 
Shortening  with  sugar.  Add  molasses  and  egg  yolks.  Thoroughly  mix 
jri  the  flour  mixture.  Cover  and  chill.  Roll  out  small  portions 
between  sheets  of  wax  paper  (about  V-i-inch  thick).  Cut  with  cookie 
utters  and  bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheets  at  350°  for  10  to  12  min- 
utes. Allow  to  cool  a  minute  before  removing  from  pan.  Decorate 
nth  raisins,  red  hots  and  icing. 

'  Claire  Wilkerson 

>4389  -163- 


KIDS   &  DADS 


300  FUDGE 


2  sticks  butter 

18  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate 

morsels 
2  c.  chopped  pecans 


3  tsp.  vanilla 

4  V2  c.  sugar 

12  oz.  can  evaporated  milk 


In  large  bowl  combine  butter,  chocolate,  nuts  and  vanilla.  Se 
aside.  Combine  sugar  and  milk  in  heavy  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil 
stirring  constantly,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  for  6  to  7  minutes.  Pou: 
hot  mixture  over  ingredients  in  bowl  and  stir  until  smooth.  Pour  oi 
greased  flat  pan  and  allow  to  cool  overnight. 

Tracy  WUkersoi 


EASY  DOUGHNUTS 


canned  biscuits 
oil 


cinnamon 

sugar  or  powdered  sugar 


Cut  hole  in  biscuits  with  a  small  cup  or  round  cookie  cutter.  Fr; 
biscuits  in  a  generous  amount  of  oil.  Sprinkle  doughnuts  with  cinna 
mon  and  sugar  or  powdered  sugar. 

Brandon  Cratei 


PLAY  DOUGH 


2  c.  flour 

1  c.  salt 

4  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 


2  Tbsp,  cooking  oil 
2  c.  wafer 
food  coloring 


Mix  and  cook  slowly  until  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Add  food  col 
oring.  Turn  onto  wax  paper  and  knead.  Keep  in  tight  container  oi 
plastic  bag.  Does  not  need  refrigeration. 

Molly  Wilkerson 


164- 


CABINETS 


1001  N.  Liberty  Street 
Winston-Salem,  NC  27101 
919)  724-1754 


THANK  YOU  for  buying  our  cookbook.  The  profits  will 
enable  us  to  complete  many  of  our  projects.  We  hope 
you  enjoy  using  the  recipes;  and  any  reorders  of  this 
cookbook  can  be  obtained  by  contacting  one  of  our 
officers. 

WOMEN'S  FELLOWSHIP 
FRIES  MEMORIAL  MORAVIAN  CHURCH 

251  Hawthorne  Road,  NW 
Winston-Salem,  NC  27104 

Telephone:  919-722-2847 


a  r*  a  n    /-\ 


■y  m 


i 


I  DONT  KNOW  HOW 

YOU  DO  IT  CAROLYN, 

THREE  KIDS...  HOUSE 

WORK...SHOPPING.  AND 

STILL  MDU  ALWAYS  LOOK 

AND  ACT  LIKE  A 

MILLION  DOLLARS. 


; 


We  Make  It  Happen 


919  765  2861  /  3443  P  ROBINHOOD  CTR    768  1700  /  602  S  STRATFORD  RD 

OPEN  EVENINGS  UNTIL  900    ALL  DAY  SATURDAY  C^   M   m  *  i  •    o  i  i  i  s  * 


EsoHR 


—  v* 


r~ 


SCOTSMRN 


COMMERCIAL  ICE  SYSTEMS 


#  DEPENDABILITY  ... 
Scotsman  quality  is  un- 
surpassed. Scotsman  is 
known  throughout  the  in- 
dustry as  the  manufacturer 
of  ice  machines  you  can 
rely  on. 

%  EASY-TO-SERVICE  ... 
90%  of  service  on 
Scotsman  CM  cuhers  can 
be  performed  from  the 
front.  Standardization'  of 
parts  between  ice  makers 
enables  servicemen  to  carry 
many  key  parts  on  their 
truck. 

#  BROAD    LINE    ... 
Scotsman's  broad  line  of 

equipment,  over  100  differ- 
ent models,  permits  users  to 
have  equipment  that  meets 
their  most  exacting  ice 
needs.  Some  units  may  be 
stacked  to  meet  ever  grow- 
ing ice  needs. 


• 


PRODUCT  AVAIL- 
ABILITY ...  Inter- 
national distribution  net- 
work maintains  multi- 
million  dollar  field  inven- 
tory. 


tCE  SYSTEMS/CONSUMER  PRODUCTS 


(919)784-8815 


Salem  Refrigeration  Co.,  Inc. 

DISTRIBUTOR  FOR  SCOTSMAN  ICE  SYSTEMS 


JR.  (JIM)  VERNON 


600  AUREOLE  STREET 
WINSTON-SALEM,  N.C.  27107 


1543-9 


GEORGE  K. 

WALKER'S 


FLORIST 


\ 


WEDDINGS 

FUNERALS 

FRUIT  BASKETS 


SILK  ARRANGEMENTS 

BALLOON  BOUQUETS 

STUFFED  ANIMALS 


FREE  DELIVERY  TO 
HOSPITALS  &  FUNERAL  HOMES 


ma 


Wtvtrea   IfK 


m 


723-2938  ) 

823  S.  MARSHALL  STREET 


; 


) 


Compliments 

Of 


, 


■ 


Chapel 
Organ 

Co..  Inc 


1  cao  n 


Compliments 

Of 


Holly 

Poultry 

Company 

Inc. 


Winston-Salem,  NC 


-L 


m 

HJAlTOK* 

MLS 


Lambe- Young  Realtors 

341 1  Healy  Drive 
Winston-Salem,  NC  271 03 

Bus.  (919)760-0300 

BETTY  LEA  R.  JOYCE 
Res.  (919)765-8114 


CAROLINA   FREIGHT   CARRIERS 
CORPORATION 

621  Forum  Parkway,  Rural  Hall,  NC  27045 
Fred  S.  Crater,  Jr. 

Account  Manager 

Tel.  (919)969-6808 

NC  Wats  (800)  422-2480 

T.  C.   JAMES   REALTY 

P.O.  Box  146 


Walkertown,  NC  27051  |MLS] 
Uj              Lucille  S,  James 

REALTOR  \GrT 

(919)595-2508  Vbi 


Appreciation  Is  Expressed  For  The 

Photographs  On  The  Front  Cover, 

Which  Were  Donated  by  Old  Salem,  Inc. 


1543-9 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 


Moravian 

-lome  Moravian  Country  Style 

Steak    4 

iot  Roll  Moravian  Sugar 

Cake 3 

Moravian  Chicken  Pie 1 

Moravian  Cinnamon  Buns   ....  4 

Moravian  Cookies    4 

Moravian  Lovefeast  Buns 1 

Moravian  Lovefeast  Coffee  ....  3 

Moravian  Orange  Cake 5 

iloravian  Slaw 1 

Moravian  Sugar  Cake   2 

Sugar  Cookies 2 

Appetizers,  Beverages,  Soups  & 
Sandwiches 

Appetizer 10 

Artichoke  Spread 11 

Wocado  Dip   14 

Jacon  Tots    9 

Jeef  Cheese  Ball 11 

Cheese-Bean  Dip    13 

Cheese  Blintzes    7 

cheese  Olives  11 

thicken  Casserole  Sandwich    .  26 

Chicken  Chowder 22 

Cholesterol-Free  Mayonnaise  .  16 

Cocktail  Kielbasa 9 

Coconut-Honey  Fruit  Dip  ....  15 

Corn  Chowder    24 

Crab  Pate    12 

Cranberry  Punch 20 

Cranberry  Tea   18 

Cucumber  and  Onion 

Sandwiches   25 

Cucumber  Dip    14 


Dill  Dip   15 

Fireside  Coffee  19 

Fresh  Vegetable  Dip    15 

Fruit  Dip 13 

Fruit  Punch  For  25   20 

Fruit  Tea 17 

Ham  Roll-Ups 10 

Healthy  Vegetable 

Sandwiches 25 

Hen-House  Homards 9 

Hot  Apple  Cider 16 

Hot  Artichoke  Dip   14 

Hot  Cheese  Dip 13 

Hot  Mulled  Cider 18 

Hot  Pecan  Spread    11 

Hot  Spinach  Balls    7 

Hugh's  Cheese  Ball   7 

Instant  Russian  Tea    19 

Lemon-Lime  Punch 20 

Manhattan  Clam  Chowder  ...  23 

Mini  Pizzas 8 

Mushroom  Appetizers 10 

Mustard 16 

My  Favorite  Summer  Sipper    .  17 

NachoDip 12 

Open-Faced  Reubens 26 

Party  Punch 17 

Pfafftown  Punch    20 

Pineapple  Cheese  Ball 8 

Potato  Soup  With  Bacon 23 

Punch    20 

Red  Hots  Cranberry  Tea 18 

Riddick  Bowles'  Oyster  Stew   .  23 

Russian  Chicken  Burgers  ....  24 

Russian  Tea    19 

Santa  Sandwiches    24 

Sausage  Balls   10 


54389 


iNDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Special  Dip   15 

Spiced  Apple  Juice 17 

Spicy  Beef  Dip    13 

Strawberry  Soup    22 

Stuffed  Mushrooms 9 

Sugar  Syrup  For  Sweetening 

Fruit  Drinks   21 

Sunset  Shrimp-Crab  Dip 12 

That  Crab  Dish 8 

Thurman  Moser's  Chicken 

Stew 21 

Vegetable  Dip 14 

Vegetable  Salad  Sandwich    ...  25 

Vegetable  Sandwich  Spread  .  .  26 

Zucchini  Soup 21 

Fruit  &  Vegetable  Side  Dishes 

Apple  Ambrosia   49 

Asparagus 27 

Asparagus  Casserole   27 

Baked  Apple  Cranberry 

Casserole 51 

Baked  Beans 29 

Baked  Eggplant  35 

Baked  Fruit 52 

Baked  Potato  Casserole 38 

Baked  Squash  Casserole 45 

Belgium  Vegetable  Salad 47 

Berry's  Salad  Dressing   58 

Bertha  Holder's  Pickles 60 

Blueberry  Salad  50 

Broccoli  Casserole    30 

Broccoli-Rice  Casserole 30 

Broccoli  Salad 31 

Broccoli  Salad 31 

Cabbage  Casserole 33 

Carrot  Casserole 32 

Cashew  Salad  Dressing 58 

Cauliflower  and  Broccoli  Salad  31 

Celery  Bake 33 


Cheesy  Vegetable  Casserole   .  .  41 

Congealed  Asparagus  Salad   .  .  2' 

Copper  Carrot  Pennies  35 

Corn  and  Rice  Salad 3' 

Corn  Pudding 3' 

Cranberry  Relish 5i 

Cranberry  Salad 5 

Cream  Cheese  Ambrosia 51 

Creamy  Parslied  New 

Potatoes 3h 

Cuke  Relish 51 

Dreamy  Apricot  Salad 4! 

Egg  and  Cheese  Salad   41 

Festive  Cherries  'N  Cream 

Salad 51 

Four  Layer  Salad 41 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes 41 

Frosty  Fruit  Salad 51 

Fruit  Salad   5' 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 5i 

Fruited  Cheese  Salad 5' 

Garbanzo  Bean  Salad    2! 

Glazed  Fruit  Salad 5i 

Granny's  Baked  Beans    2! 

Grated  Sweet  Potato  Pudding  31 

Green  Bean  Casserole 2i 

Green  Bean  Marinade 2! 

Green  Beans  With  Cheese  ....  2! 

Hash  Brown  Potato  Casserole  3i; 

Hot  Fruit 51 

Hot  German  Potato  Salad  ....  3i 
Italian-Style  Marinated 

Vegetables 41 

Kraut  Salad 41 

Layered  Salad 4 

Lima  and  Corn  Casserole   ....  3' 

Lime  Salad    51 

Mandarin  Salad  51 

Marinated  Pea  Salad 3i 

Mild  Vinegar  Pickles 61 

Mixed  Vegetable  Salad    4' 


B 


^Old  Fashion  Squash  Casserole  45 

Onion  Deluxe  Casserole    35 

Onion  Pie    35 

i  Orange  Salad    54 

"Orange  Sweet  Potatoes 36 

(Oranges  and  Sour  Cream 

Salad 54 

^Overnight  Salad 39 

Pat's  Cole  Slaw 32 

^Patrician  Potatoes 38 

Patty  Cakes 36 

^Pepper  Relish 59 

tfPickled  Okra 60 

Pineapple  Casserole 55 

"Pineapple  Cheese  Casserole   .  .  55 

^Pretzel  Salad 57 

^Raspberry  Salad 54 

^Refrigerator  Cole  Slaw    33 

Refrigerator  Cranberry  and 

i    Apple  Salad 51 

'Refrigerator  Pickles 59 

iRitz  Broccoli  Casserole    31 

SRoquefort  Dressing  Lorraine   .  58 
"Royal  Anne  Cherry  Congealed 

|    Salad 50 

^Sausage-Stuffed  Squash   44 

^Scalloped  Tomatoes 46 

|?-Up  Salad    56 

^Spaghetti  Squash 45 

^Spinach  and  Rice   42 

\  Spinach  and  Rice  Casserole    .  .  41 

Spinach  Fettucini 41 

Spinach-Rice  Casserole 42 

Spinach  Salad  and  Dressing  .  .  42 
-Spinach  Salad  With  Hot 

Bacon  Dressing 43 

Spinach  Squares 41 

'Squash 43 

■Squash  and  Sour  Cream 

Casserole 44 

Squash  Casserole 44 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Strawberry  Salad 55 

Stuffed  Summer  Squash 43 

Sweet  Potato  Casserole 37 

Sweet  Potatoes  With  Orange 

Sauce   37 

Tomato  Aspic  46 

Vegetable  Casserole 48 

Watergate  Salad 56 

Zesty  Broccoli  Casserole   30 

Zucchini  Quiche 49 

Meats  &  Main  Dishes 

Baked  Rice    73 

Baked  Spaghetti 76 

Barbecue  Beef  Stew  With 

Noodles  or  Rice 65 

Barbequed  Chicken  79 

Basic  Barbeque  Hamburger 

Delight 65 

Bean/Hamburger  Casserole   .  .  66 

Beef  Bourguignon    66 

Burrito  Pie    64 

Chicken  and  Broccoli 

Casserole 81 

Chicken  and  Rice  Casserole   .  .  79 

Chicken  Barbeque  Sauce 86 

Chicken  Cordon  Bleu 74 

Chicken  Dijon 78 

Chicken  Divan    77 

Chicken  Parisienne  77 

Chicken  Spectacular   78 

Chicken  Yummy 77 

Chili  Con  Turkey 82 

Cooked  Barbecue  Sauce 85 

Coquilles  St.  Jacques 89 

Cosmopolitan  Chicken 78 

Country  Style  Steak 68 

Crab  Casserole  90 

Crabmeat  Quiche 89 

Crispy  Chicken  Bake 75 


154389 


-C 


iNDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Curried  Shrimp  Salad 91 

Delicious  Brunch   91 

Dressing    81 

Elegant  Tuna  87 

Enchiladas    63 

Flank  Steaks 64 

French  Fried  Shrimp 90 

Golden  Beef  Quiche 68 

Green  Meadows  Meat  Loaf  ...  67 

Ham  and  Cheese  Loaf 82 

Hamburger  Hot  Dish 71 

Hamburger  Upside-Down  Pie  70 

Hot  Chicken  Salad 81 

Hot  Diggety  Dog  Casserole  ...  83 

Lasagna 72 

Lemon  Barbeque  Chicken  ....  80 

Low-Fat  Brown  Rice  Bake    ...  72 

Low-Fat  Oven  Fried  Chicken  .  73 
Low-Fat  Quick  and  Easy  Chili 

Con  Carne  72 

Macaroni  Casserole   75 

Marinated  Flank  Steak 67 

Marinated  Pot  Roast  Dinner 

In  Slow  Cooker 70 

Marinated  Shrimp 88 

Meat  Loaf 64 

Microwave  Beef  and  Tater 

Casserole  66 

Mrs.  VI  Befus'  Sloppy  Joes  ...  65 

Mushroom  Sauce 85 

Mushroom  Tofu  Pie 91 

My  Special  Bar-B-Q  Sauce    ...  85 

Neptune  Salad   86 

Orange  Chicken 74 

Poor  Man's  Crab  Cakes 89 

Pork  and  Rice 83 

Pudgy's  Enchiladas  63 

Quick  and  Easy  Chili 69 

"Quick"  Enchilada  Casserole  .  63 

Quicken  Chicken  Pie 76 

Salmon  Fritters   89 


: 


Salmon  Loaf 90 

Salmon  Mousse    87 

Sausage  Casserole   84 

Seafood,  Fruit  and  Veggie 

Kabobs  

Sherried  Rock  Cornish  Game 

Hens 79 

Sicilian  Meat  Roll 69 

Simple  Greek  Shrimp   88 

Spicy  Rice   73 

Spinach  Lasagna   75 

Standing  Rib  Roast   69 

Sunday  Chicken 80 

Sweet-Sour  Meat  Balls    67 

Sweet-Sour  Sauce  For  Beef  ...  84 

Teriyaki  Shish-Kabobs   71 

Tuna  Melt 87 

Turkey  Tetrazzini  82 

Wild  Rice  Salad 73 

Zucchini  Sausage  Bake   84 

Breads 

Banana  Nut  Bread 100 

Blue  Ribbon  Whole  Grain 

Bread   102 

"Bojangle"  Biscuits   102 

Bran  Muffins    93 

Breakaway  Veggie  Bread    .  .  .    103 

Broccoli  Bread    100 

Cardamon  Bread   99 

Corny  Corn  Bread   94 

French  Toast    95 

French  Toast  Casserole 95 

Honey  Bran  Muffins   93: 

Lo-Cal  Bran  Muffins  93 

Low-Fat  Golden  Corn  Bread  .  .  94 

Onion  Corn  Bread   94' 

Orange  Muffins   1011 

Potato  Rolls    96 

Saint  Joseph's  Bread 99 


D 


Saturday  Morning  Pancakes    .    98 
Sesame  Cheese  Muffins 101 

Sourdough  Bread 98 

j 

Sourdough  Bread  Feeder 98 

Special  Peach  Muffins 96 

Spoon  Corn  Bread   95 

.Sweet  Potato  Bread 102 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuits  97 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 97 

'ucchini  Bread 100 

Desserts 

aggression  Cookies    137 

imazing  Coconut  Pie    114 

\pple  Crisp 148 

tipple  Dumplings 148 

ipricot-Prune  Coffeecake  .  .  .  125 

lanana  Cream  Pie 108 

Hack  Walnut  Chocolate 

I  Pound  Cake 133 

lender  Lemon  Pie    109 

oiled  Cookies    138 

rown  Sugar  Pie    114 

rownies 140 

utter  Balls 150 

utter-Cinnamon  Delight 

I  Coffee  Cake 117 

appuccino  Candy 146 

aramel  Frosting 135 

heese  Cake .  130 

henry  Yum  Yum 150 

:ihess  Tarts 116 

ihocolate  Buttermilk  Cake  .  .  121 

(hocolate  Fluff  Frosting  ....  136 

chocolate  Frosting 136 

hocolate-Peanut  Butter  Pie  106 

locolate  Pecan  Bars    143 

locolate  Pecan  Pie    106 

!(iocolate  Pie   107 

locolate-Praline  Jumbo  Mud 

Squares    142 


389 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Chocolate  Sour  Cream  Pound 

Cake 134 

Chocolate  Syrup  Cake 123 

Chocolate  Syrup  Pound  Cake  132 

Choconut  Caramel  Bars    ....  142 

Christmas  Dessert 147 

Coconut  Sheet  Cake 121 

Cran-Apples   147 

Cream  Cheese  Cake  Squares  141 

Cream  Cheese  Pound  Cake  .  .  134 

Creamy  Frosting    135 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding   149 

Creole  Pralines 145 

Date  Nut  Balls   151 

Date  Pineapple  Icebox  Cake  .  116 

Dirt  Cake 124 

Drop  Sugar  Cookies 137 

Easy  Cheese  Danish 151 

Fantasy  Cookies 137 

Five  Flavor  Pound  Cake   ....  134 

Fluffy  Peanut  Butter  Pie  ...  .  112 

Frozen  Lemon  Cream  Pie  ...  113 

Fruit  and  Oat  Bars 151 

Fruit  Cake 127 

Fruit  Flavor  Macaroon 

Cookies 139 

Fudge  Bar  Brownies    141 

Fudge  Pie    105 

Gingerbread  126 

Golf  Balls 146 

Graham  Treats 144 

Hawaiian  Cake 120 

"Hazel's"  Chocolate  Pound 

Cake 132 

Heavenly  Chocolate  Ice  Cream  152 

Icebox  Cake 118 

Japanese  Fruit  Pie Ill 

Jayne's  Rum  Cake 123 

Lemon  Cake  124 

Lemon  Icebox  Pie 109 

Lemon  Sauce    140 


E 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Lemon  Squares 141 

Lemonade  Cake   122 

Light  and  Creamy  Pumpkin 

Pie    113 

Lime  Pie   110 

Magic  Cookies 136 

Magic  Pumpkin  Pie 113 

Mandarin  Cream  Cake    120 

"Mavareen's"  Raw  Sliced 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 105 

Meringue  Mushrooms 148 

Microwave  Brown  Sugar 

Caramel  Sauce    140 

Microwave  Peanut  Butter 

Fudge 145 

Million  Dollar  Pie 108 

Mincemeat  Cake 126 

Miniature  Fruit  Cakes 126 

Mississippi  Mud  Cake   119 

Moist  Quick  Oats  Cake  119 

Mountain  Pie   107 

Oatmeal  Cake 118 

Ohio  Buckeyes   147 

Old  Fashioned  Peanut  Brittle  146 

Orange  Sauce 139 

Ozark  Pudding 149 

Pam's  Delicious  Carrot  Cake  117 

Peach  Pie 108 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge  Ice 

Cream 152 

Peanut  Butter  Icebox  Cookies  138 

Peanut  Butter  Pound  Cake  .  .  131 

Pecan  Pie  Squares 143 

Pecan  Tarts 116 

Peggy's  Birthday  Cake    122 

Penn  Dutch  Apple  Pie  With 

Crust    112 

Pie  Crust 115 

Pineapple  Icebox  Pie 110 

Pineapple  Pie 110 

Planters  Brownie  Fudge  Pie  .  107 


Pound  Cake 

Praline  Ice  Cream  Sauce  .... 

Pumpkin  Cookie  Bars 

Pumpkin  Pie  Bars  

Quick  and  Easy  Cheese  Cake 

Raspberry  Cheesecake 

Red  Velvet  Pound  Cake 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Single  Crust  9-Inch  Pie 

Snickerdoodles 

Sour  Cream  and  Apple  Pie  .  . 
Sour  Cream  Banana  Cake  .  .  . 
Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake  .... 

Sour  Cream  Raisin  Pie    

Strawberry  Glazed  Cream 

Cheese  Cake    

Sugared  Peanuts   

Swedish  Nut  Cake 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   

Tarts   

Tiny  Chocolate  Cheesecakes  . 

Toll  House  Pie   

Whipped  Butter  Pound  Cake 

Wild  Caramel  Delight   

World's  Best  Cookies 

Kids  &  Dads 

Almond  Crescents 

Baked  Potato  Soup 

Banana  Milkshake 

BeefRoll-Ups  

Best  Pimento  Cheese 

Bob  Seller's  Grilled  Chicken  . 

Caesar  Salad 

Cheese-Nut  Spread    

Cheese,  Onion  and  Beef 

Enchiladas 

Cheesecake 

Chipped  Beef  Dip 

Cocktail  Franks  


135 

151 
14i 

14; 

121 
121 
13 
11< 
11! 
13! 
11 
121 
121 
11] 

12< 
14! 
121 
101 
11E 
13( 
10( 
13i 
15( 
13( 


162 
15E 
162 
158 
154 
156 
156 
154 

157 
162 
155 

153 


-F 


Cocktail  Meatballs 153 

Cocktail  Sauce    153 

Crab  Dip   155 

Daddy's  Cookies 162 

David's  Original  Pie 160 

Deviled  Ham  Dip   154 

Easy  Doughnuts 164 

Easy  Veal  Parmesan    159 

Flank  Steak  Barbecue 158 

Gingerbread  Men 163 

Italian  Spaghetti  Sauce 157 

Jake's  Barbecue  Sauce    159 

Monroe's  Peach  Cobbler  ....  163 

Oatmeal  Cookies    161 

Onion  Rings   156 

Orange  Fruitcake 160 

Papa's  Spaghetti  Sauce 158 

Peanut  Butter  Soup 156 

Play  Dough 164 

"Southern  Pecan  Pie 161 

"300  Fudge 164 

Hip's  Cheese  Ball   153 

Waffles 160 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 


54369  -  G  - 


NOTES 

-•  NOTES  •- 


-H- 


Trading  recipes  has  been  a 
popular  hobby  for  generations.  Now 
you  can  turn  this  tradition  into  an 
exciting  and  profitable  Fund  Raising 
Program  that  involves  the  entire 
community!  Fundcraft  helps  you  every  step  of 
the  way  with  a  proven  plan  that  guarantees  your  success. 
Request  your  FREE  copy  of  our  Recipes  For  Success  booklet  that 
explains  how  easy  it  is  to  publish  your  own  cookbook.  You  collect 
the  recipes  and  Fundcraft  does  the  rest! 


_——_—-.-.- 


Send  Me  Your  Recipe  For  Success! 


aV**C  !  ^enc^ me  more  in^ormati°n  on  publishing  a 
1C3  •  personalized  cookbook  with  no  obligation. 

For  faster  service  call  1-800-351-7822 

i/isit  us  on  the  internet  at:  http://www.cookbooks.com 

Organization 


('our  Name, 


\ddress_ - 


% 


State. 


Zip: 


tome  Phone  (___)_ 


The  Fundcraft  Sampler 


1089-F 


Raise  Funds!  Create  Your  Own 
Cookbook  With  Fundcraft! 


If  you  belong  to  an  organization  that  needs  money,  or  want  to  raise  funds  for  a  worthy 
cause,  send  in  this  card  today.  For  whatever  reason  you  publish  a  cookbook,  Fundcraft  has  a 
low  cost,  guaranteed  cookbook  plan  for  you.  All  you  do  is  collect  the  recipes  from  friends 
and  neighbors  -  FUNDCRAFT  DOES  THE  REST! 


Raise  $5,000  or  more! 

Fundcraft's  time-tested  plan  allows  you  to 
offer  an  attractive,  professional  cookbook 
everyone  will  love  that  has  a  perceived  value 
of  many  times  its  actual  cost.  Fundcraft 
cookbooks  are  easy  to  do  and  easy  to  sell 
when  you  follow  our  plan. 

Our  "Recipe  For  Success" 

Fundcraft  has  been  publishing  cookbooks 
since  1942.  We  help  you  every  step  of  the  way  so 
that  you  and  your  members  have  FUN  while  pro- 
viding a  constructive  service  for  your  community. 


Quality  ingredients 

Fundcraft  quality  allows  you  to  have  a 
personalized  cookbook  with  your  name  on 
the  cover  and  in  many  places  throughout  the  book. 
You  can  also  choose  from  full-color  covers  and 
divider  sheets.  Your  members'  names  will  appear 
with  the  recipes  they  submit. 

No  investment  or  risk 

Fundcraft  trusts  you  with  an  easy  67  day  payment 
plan  after  we  ship  your  books.  Your  success  is  guar- 
anteed so  there's  no  worry  about  cost.  Follow  our 
plan  and  your  cookbooks  will  sell  themselves. 


For  even  faster  service,  call  1-800-351-7822 

visit  our  internet  site  @  http://www.cookbooks.com 

(Brofmtional  Goo/t(>oo/t&  on  cijiuid/vim/u}  (nid^et 

(Tear  along  perforation,  fill  in  other  side  and  mail) 


BUSINESS  REPLY  MAIL 

FIRST-CLASS  MAIL  PERMIT  NO  58  COLLIERVILLE,  TN 


POSTAGE  WILL  BE  PAID  BY  ADDRESSEE 


Fundcraft 

Personalized  Community  Cookbooks 


P.O.  Box  340 

Collierviile,  TN  38027-9987 


I, .11, 1, ,1,11 I, II, nil, I, , I, l„l, ,1,1, nil 


1 1 1 


Making 

The 

Right 

Food 

Choices 


A  guide  to  healthy  cooking  and  eating 

People  are  more  concerned  than  ever  about  making  the  right 
choices  when  it  comes  to  eating.  Once  primarily  concerned  with 
weight  and  calories,  now  consumers  want  to  know  more  about 
what  they  are  putting  into  their  bodies.  Their  concerns  include 
a  number  of  diet  related  topics  such  as  cholesterol,  fat,  fiber, 
sodium,  as  well  as  calorie  intake. 

Fundcraft  Publishing  has  gathered  important  nutritional  infor- 
mation to  help  consumers  eat  smart.  The  following  pages 
include  topics  such  as  nutrient  content  claims,  health  claims 
and  the  new  food  label  and  how  this  information  can  play  a  role 
in  your  family's  diet  and  overall  good  health. 


Cooking  Hints 


The  role  of  fat  in  your  diet 

Fat  consumption  has  been  linked  to  heart  disease,  obesity,  some 
types  of  cancer  and  gallbladder  disease.  Many  public  and  private 
health  authorities  now  recommend  that  Americans  strive  to 
reduce  their  intake  of  dietary  fat. 

The  problem  that  confronts  so  many  people  now  is  how  to  trans- 
late these  recommendations  for  a  reduced-fat  diet  to  their  every- 
day menu.  Basically,  this  means  selecting  foods  which  are  low 
in  fat  or  fat  free  more  often.  Choosing  vegetables  and  fruits, 
cereals  and  grain  products,  fish,  lean  meats  and  low-fat  dairy 
products  will  help  reduce  your  daily  intake  of  fat. 
Not  all  fats  are  created  equal  and  not  all  fats  are  bad. 
Cholesterol  and  saturated  fats  are  the  hardest  on  your  heart, 
while  monosaturated  and  polyunsaturated  fats  are  the  easiest. 
Here's  how  to  recognize  all  four  in  your  diet: 

CHOLESTEROL  is  a  fatty  substance  found  in  animal  foods 
including  meat,  poultry,  fish,  egg  yolks,  milk,  cream,  cheese, 
butter  and  other  dairy  products.  Foods  derived  from  plants  such 
as  fruits,  vegetables,  grains  and  nuts  contain  no  cholesterol  at 
all. 

SATURATED  FATS  are  primarily  contained  in  animal  foods 
including  red  meat  and  whole  milk  dairy  products.  Saturated 
fats  can  also  be  found  in  certain  types  of  oils,  notably  coconut 
and  palm  and  palm  kernel  oils,  which  are  used  in  commercially 
baked  goods.  It's  a  good  idea  to  cut  down  on  foods  high  in  sat- 
urated fats  and  to  make  substitutions  whenever  possible. 

MONOSATURATED  FATS  are  not  considered  harmful  to  your 
heart,  and  new  research  suggests  they  may  actually  reduce  your 
blood  cholesterol  level  and,  thus,  your  risk  of  cardiovascular  dis- 
ease. This  type  of  fat  is  found  in  olive  oil,  and  in  certain  plant 
foods  including  avocados. 

POLYUNSATURATED  FATS  also  tend  to  reduce  blood  choles- 
terol levels.  It's  the  kind  of  fat  you  find  most  typically  in  sun- 
flower, corn,  soybean  and  safflower  oils. 


Decreasing  Your  Fat  Intake 

You  can  lower  your  cholesterol  level  and  decrease  your  risk  of 
heart  disease  by  cutting  down  on  your  fat  consumption.  Here 
are  some  ways: 


Avoid  fried  foods;  bake  or  broil. 

Choose  lean  meats;  cut  off  the  fat  before  cooking. 

Avoid  luncheon  meats  (hot  dogs,  bologna). 

Eat  sparingly  of  sausage  and  bacon. 

Remove  skin  from  poultry  (before  cooking,  if  possible). 

Steam  vegetables. 

Use  half  the  fat  (oil,  margarine,  butter,  lard,  shortening,  mayonnaise) 

called  for  in  recipes. 
Use  less  than  1  teaspoon  margarine  or  butter  on  bread,  hot  cereals, 

vegetables. 
Use  low-fat  salad  dressings;  limit  other  salad  dressings  to  1  tablespoon. 
Season  with  herbs,  lemon,  vinegar,  onion,  garlic,  tomato  products. 
Thicken  sauces,  soups  with  a  mixture  of  corn  starch  (or  flour)  and 

cold  water. 
For  snacks,  choose  fruit,  vegetables,  whole  grain  bread/cereals/ 

crackers. 
Choose  low-fat  milk  products  such  as  buttermilk,  2%  fat  milk,  non-fat 

dry  milk  powder  and  skim  milk. 
Use  lean  pieces  of  meat  instead  of  fatback  as  seasoning  for  beans, 

peas,  greens. 


How  to  Pick  What's  Good  for  Your  Diet 

Formula  %  of  calories  from  fat: 

(Grams  of  Fat)  x  9/(Calories  per  serving) = 

(Percent  of  calories  from  fat) 


Cooking  Hints 


TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 


Vegetable 


Ways  To 
Prepare 


Cooking 


Time 


CELERY  Scrub  thoroughly. 

Cut  off  leaves  and 
trim  roots.  Slice  into 
desired  lengths. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water  or  in  consomme. 


10-15  mins. 


CORN 


Remove  husks  and 
silks  from  fresh 
corn.  Rinse  and 
cook  whole. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water;  or  cook  uncov- 
ered in  enough  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover 


6-8  mins. 


ears. 


EGGPLANT 


Wash;  if  skin  is 
tough,  pare.  Cut  in 
1/2  inch  slices. 


Dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  fine  dry  bread 
crumbs.  Brown  slowly 
on  both  sides  in  hot 
oil.  Season. 


Approx. 
4  mins. 


MUSHROOMS 


Wash;  cut  off  tips  of 
stems.  Leave  whole 
or  slice. 


Add  to  melted  mar- 
garine in  skillet;  sprin- 
kle with  flour  ana  mix. 
Cover  and  cook  slowly, 
turning  occasionally. 


8-10  mins. 


OKRA 


Wash  pods;  cut  off 
stems.  Slice  or  leave 
whole. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling  salt- 
ed water. 


8-15  mins. 


PARSNIPS 


Wash  thoroughly; 
pare  or  scrape. 
Slice  lengthwise  or 
crosswise. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling  salt- 
ed water. 


15-20  mins. 


PEAS,  Green      shell  and  wash. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water. 


8-15  mins. 


SPINACH 


Cut  off  roots  and 
wash  several  times 
in  lukewarm  water, 
lifting  out  of  water 
as  you  wash. 


Cook  covered  without 
adding  water.  Reduce 
heat  when  steam 
forms.  Turn  often 
while  cooking. 


3-5  mins. 


TOMATOES 


Wash  ripened 
tomatoes. 


Cook  slowly,  covered, 
without  adding  water. 


10-15  mins. 


ZUCCHINI 


Wash;  do  not  pare. 
Slice  thin. 


Season  and  cook  cov- 
ered in  margarine  for 
5  mins.  Uncover  and 
cook  till  tender,  turn- 
ing slices. 


10  mins. 
Total 


A  "QUICK"  Summary  Of 


DILL 


FENNEL 


MARJORAM 


TARRAGON 


CURRY 
POWDER 


Both  leaves  and  seeds  of  dill  are  used.  Leaves  may  be 
used  as  a  garnish  or  to  cook  with  fish.  Leaves  or  the 
whole  plant  may  be  used  to  flavor  dill  pickles. 

Has  a  sweet,  hot  flavor.  Both  seeds  and  leaves  are  used. 
Seeds  may  be  used  as  a  spice  in  very  small  quantity  in 
pies  and  baked  goods.  Leaves  may  be  boiled  with  fish. 

May  be  used  both  green  and  dry  for  flavoring  soups  and 
ragouts;  and  in  stuffing  for  all  meats  and  fish. 

Leaves  have  a  hot,  pungent  taste.  Valuable  to  use  in  all 
salads  and  sauces.  Excellent  in  tartar  sauce.  Leaves  are 
pickled  with  gherkins.  Used  to  flavor  vinegar. 

A  number  of  spices  combined  to  proper  proportions  to  give 
a  distinct  flavor  to  such  dishes  as  vegetables,  meat,  poultry 
and  fish. 


CHIVES 


Leaves  are  used  in  many  ways.  May  be  used  in  salads, 
cream  cheese,  sandwiches,  omelets,  soups  and  fish 
dishes.  Mild  flavor  of  onion. 


SAGE 


Used  fresh  and  dried.  May  be  used  in  poultry  and  meat 
stuffings;  in  sausage  and  practically  all  meat  combina- 
tions; in  cheese  and  vegetable  combinations,  as  in  veg- 
etable loaf,  or  curry.  The  flowers  are  sometimes  used  in 
salads. 


continued 


Cooking  Hints 


...'...        :::  *         ^  :  :       ^ 


, 


continued... 
CARAWAY 

PAPRIKA 


BASIL 


OREGANO 


BAY  LEAF 


GINGER 


CHERVIL 


Seeds  have  a  spicy  smell  and  aromatic  taste.  Used  in  baked 
goods,  cakes,  breads,  soups,  cheese  and  sauerkraut. 

A  Hungarian  red  pepper.  Bright  red  in  color.  May  be 
used  in  all  meat  and  vegetable  salads,  in  soups,  both 
cream  and  stock.  As  a  garnish  for  potatoes,  cream 
cheese,  salads  or  eggs. 

Aromatic  odor,  warm,  sweet  flavor,  used  whole  or 
ground.  Used  with  lamb,  fish  and  vegetable  dishes. 

Whole  or  ground,  strong  aromatic  odor,  used  with  tomato 
sauces,  pizza  and  veal  dishes. 

A  pungent  flavor.  Available  as  whole  leaf.  Good  in  vegetable 
and  fish  soups,  tomato  sauces  and  juice.  Remove  before 
serving. 

An  aromatic,  pungent  root,  sold  fresh,  dried  or  ground. 
May  be  used  in  pickles,  preserves,  cakes,  cookies,  puddings, 
soups,  pot  roasts. 

Aromatic  herb  of  carrot  family,  like  parsley  but  more 
delicate.  Used  fresh  or  dry  in  salads,  soups,  egg  and 
cheese  dishes. 


SHALLOTS 


VINEGAR 


Small  type  onion  producing  large  clusters  of  small  bulbs. 
Used  like  garlic  to  flavor  meats,  poultry,  sausage,  head 
cheese. 

Low  percentage  natural  acid,  generally  acetic  acid.  Used  as 
a  preservative  for  all  pickling  of  vegetables  and  fruit.  To 
give  zest  or  tangy  flavor  to  salad  dressings;  for  meat,  fish 
and  vegetable  sauces.  Different  kinds  are  wine  vinegar, 
white  vinegar,  cider  vinegar,  tarragon  vinegar. 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

CANDIES,  SNACKS  AND  NUTS  Calories 

Almonds 12  to  15 93 

Cashews 6  to  8 88 

Chocolate  Bar  (nut) 2  ounce  bar 340 

Coconut  (Shredded) 1  cup 344 

English  Toffee 1  piece 25 

Fudge 1  ounce 115 

Mints 5  very  small 50 

Peanuts  (salted) 1  ounce 190 

Peanuts  (roasted) 1  cup 800 

Pecans 6 104 

Popcorn  (plain) 1  cup 54 

Potato  Chips 10  medium  chips 115 

Pretzels 10  small  sticks 35 

Walnuts 8  to  10  100 

DAIRY  PRODUCTS 

American  Cheese 1  cube,  l'/s  inch 100 

Butter  or  Oleomargarine 1  level  Tbsp 100 

Cheese  (blue,  cheddar,  cream, 

Swiss) 1  ounce 105 

Cottage  Cheese  (uncreamed) 1  ounce 25 

Cream,  light 1  Tbsp 30 

Cream,  whipped 1  Tbsp 25 

Egg  White 1 15 

Egg  Yolk 1 61 

Eggs  (boiled  or  poached) 2 160 

Eggs  (scrambled) 2 220 

Egg  (fried) 1  medium 110 

Yogurt  (flavored) 4  ounces 60 

DESSERTS 

Cakes: 

Angel  Food  Cake 2"  piece 110 

Cheesecake 2"  piece 200 

Chocolate  Cake,  iced 2"  piece 445 

Fruit  Cake 2"  piece 115 

Pound  Cake 1  ounce  piece 140 

Sponge  Cake 2"  piece 120 

Shortcake  with  fruit 1  avg.  slice 300 

Cupcake,  iced 1 185 

Cupcake,  plain 1 145 

Pudding: 

Bread  Pudding '.':■  cup 150 

Flavored  Puddings '  ■>  cup 140 

Pies: 

Apple 1  piece 331 

Blueberry 1  piece 290 

Cherry 1  piece 355 

Custard 1  piece 280 

Lemon  Meringue 1  piece 305 

Peach 1  piece 280 

Cooking  Hints  ' 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

DESSERTS  (Cont.)  Calories 

Pumpkin 1  piece 265 

Rhubarb 1  piece 265 

Ice  Cream: 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream '/.>  cup 200 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream /»  cup 150 

Miscellaneous: 

Chocolate  Eclair,  custard 1  small 250 

Cookies,  assorted 1,  3-inch  dia 120 

Cream  Puff. 1 296 

Jello,  all  flavors '/2  cup 78 

BEVERAGES  AND  JUICES 

Chocolate  Malted 8  ounces 450 

Cocoa  (all  milk) 8  ounces 235 

Cocoa  (milk  &  water) 8  ounces 140 

Coffee  (black/unsweetened) 0 

BREADS  AND  FLOUR  FOODS 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 1  large  or  2  small 129 

Bran  Muffin 1  medium 106 

Cornbread 1  small  square 130 

Dumplings 1  medium 70 

Enriched  White  Bread 1  slice 60 

French  Bread 1  small  slice 54 

French  Toast 1  slice 135 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 1  cup 475 

Melba  Toast 1  slice 25 

Noodles  cooked 1  cup 200 

Pancakes  (wheat) 1,  4-inch 60 

Raisin  Bread 1  slice 80 

Rye  Bread 1  slice 71 

Saltines 1 17 

Soda  Crackers 1 23 

Waffles 1 216 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 1  slice 55 

BREAKFAST  CEREALS 

Corn  Flakes 1  cup 96 

Cream  of  Wheat 1  cup 120 

Oatmeal. 1  cup 148 

Rice  Flakes 1  cup 105 

Shredded  Wheat 1  biscuit 100 

Sugar  Krisps 3/icup 110 

FISH  AND  FOWL 

Bass 4  ounces 105 

Brook  Trout 4  ounces 130 

Crabmeat  (canned) 3  ounces 85 

Fish  Sticks 5  sticks  or  4  oz 200 

Haddock  (baked) 1  fillet. 158 

Haddock  (broiled) 4  ounces  (steak) 207 

8 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

FRUITS 

Apple  (raw) 1  small 70 

Banana 1  medium 85 

Blueberries  (frozen/unsweetened) '/:■  cup 45 

Cantaloupe  Melon '/■->  melon  large 60 

Cherries,  fresh/whole '/?  cup 40 

Cranberries  (sauce) 1  cup 54 

Grapes 1  cup 65 

Dates 3  or  4 95 

Grapefruit  (unsweetened) '/.> 55 

Orange 1  medium 70 

Peach  (fresh) 1 35 

Plums 2 50 

Tangerine  (fresh) 1 40 

Watermelon 1"  slice 60 

MEATS 

Bacon  (crisp) 2  slices 95 

Frankfurter 1 155 

Hamburger  (avg.  fat/broiled) 3  ounces 245 

Hamburger  (lean//broiled) 3  ounces 185 

Ham  (broiled//lean) 3  ounces 200 

Ham  (baked) 1  slice 100 

Lamb  Leg  Roast. 3  ounces 235 

Lamb  Chop  (rib) 3  ounces 300 

Liver  (fried) 3  ]/->  ounces 210 

Meat  Loaf. 1  slice 100 

Pork  Chop  (med.) 3  ounces. 340 

Pork  Roast 3  ounces. 310 

Pork  Sausage 3  ounces. 405 

Roasts  (Beef) 

Loin  Roast. 3  '/S  ounces 340 

Pot  Roast  (round) 3  '/!<  ounces 200 

Rib  Roast 3  'A  ounces 260 

Rump  Roast 3  '/l>  ounces 340 

Spareribs 1  piece,  3  ribs 123 

Swiss  Steak 3  '/s  ounces 300 

Veal  Chop  (med.) 3  ounces. 185 

Veal  Roast 3  ounces. 230 

SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 

Apple  and  carrot  (no  dressing) '/-■  cup 100 

Chef  Salad/reg.  oil 1  Tbsp 160 

Chef  Salad/mayonnaise 1  Tbsp 125 

Chef  Salad/  French,  Roquefort 1  Tbsp 105 

Cole  Slaw  (no  dressing) '/>  cup 102 

Fruit  Gelatin 1  square 139 

Potato  Salad  (no  dressing) '/!>  cup 184 

Waldorf  (no  dressing) '/?  cup 140 

Boiled  Dressing 1  Tbsp 28 

French  Dressing 1  Tbsp 60 

Mayonnaise 1  Tbsp 110 

Cooking  Hints  9 


Food  Guide  Pyramid 

A  Guide  to  Daily  Food  Choices 


Fats,  Oils  &  Sweets 
USE  SPARINGLY 


Milk,  Yogurt  & 
Cheese  Group 
2-3  SERVINGS 


KEY 


Fat  (naturally  occur- 
ing  and  added) 


O 

Sugars 

These  symbols  show  fats,  oils,  and  (added) 
added  sugars  in  foods.  ' 


Meat,  Poultry,  Fish, 

Dry  Beans,  Eggs 

&  Nuts  Group 

2-3  SERVINGS 


Vegetable 
Group 
3-5 
SERVINGS 


Fruit  Group 
2-4  SERVINGS 


Bread,  Cereal, 

Rice  &  Pasta 

Group 

6-11 

SERVINGS 


How  to  Use  The  Daily  Food  Guide 


What  counts  as  one  serving? 


Breads,  Cereals,  Rice  and  Pasta 

1  slice  of  bread 

1/2  cup  of  cooked  rice  or  pasta 
1/2  cup  of  cooked  cereal 
1  ounce  of  ready  to  eat  cereal 

Vegetables 

1/2  cup  of  chopped  raw  or 

cooked  vegetables 
1  cup  of  leafy  raw  vegetables 

Fruits 

1  piece  of  fruit  or  melon  wedge 


Milk,  Yogurt  and  Cheese 

1  cup  of  milk  or  yogurt 
1/2  to  1  ounce  of  cheese 


Fats,  Oils  and  Sweets 

LIMIT  CALORIES  FROM  THESE 
especially  if  you  need  to  lose 
weight. 


Meat,  Poultry,  Fish,  Dry 
Beans,  Eggs  and  Nuts 

2-1/2  to  3  ounces  of  cooked 
lean  meat,  poultry  or  fish 

Count  1/2  cup  of  cooked  beans, 
or  1  egg,  or  2  tablespoons  of 
peanut  butter  as  1  ounce  of 
lean  meat  (about  1/3  serving) 


The  amount  you  eat  may 
be  more  than  one  serv- 
ing. For  example,  a  din- 
ner portion  of  spaghetti 
would  count  as  two  or 
three  servings  of  pasta. 


10 


How  many 

servings  do  you  need 
each  day? 

Calorie  Level* 

about                 about                   about 
1,600                 2,200                 2,800 

Bread  Group 

6                        9                       11 

Vegetable  Group 

3                        4                        5 

Fruit  Group 

2                         3                        4 

Milk  Group 

**2  -  3                **2  -  3                **2  -  3 

Meat  Group 

2,  for  a               2,  for  a               3,  for  a 
total  of               total  of               total  of 

5  ounces            6  ounces            7  ounces 

*  These  are  calorie  levels  if  you  choose  low-fat,  lean  foods  from  the  5 
major  food  groups  and  use  foods  from  the  fats,  oils,  and  sweets 
group  sparingly. 

**  Women  who  are  pregnant  or  breastfeeding,  teenagers,  and  young 
adults  to  age  24  need  3  servings. 

A  Closer  Look  at  Fat  and 
Added  Sugars 

The  small  tip  of  the  pyramid  shows  fats,  oils,  and  sweets. 
These  are  foods  such  as  salad  dressings,  cream,  butter, 
margarine,   sugars,    soft   drinks,    candies   and   sweet 
desserts.  These  foods  provide  calories,  but  few  vita- 
mins and  minerals.  Most  people  should  go  easy  on 
foods  from  this  group. 

Some  fat  or  sugar  symbols  are  shown  in  the  other 
food  groups.  That's  to  remind  you  that  some  foods 
in  these  groups  can  also  be  high  in  fat  and  added 
sugars,  such  as  cheese  or  ice  cream  from  the 
milk  group.  When  choosing  foods  for  a  diet, 
consider  the  fat  and  added  sugars  in  your 
choices  from  all  the  food  groups,  not  just 
fats,  oils  and  sweets  from  the  Pyramid 
tip. 


Cooking  Hints 


11 


Nutrition  Facts:  Helping 
Consumers  Eat  Smart 

Shopping  and  planning  has  never  been  easy.  And  now,  with  so  many 
people  concerned  about  the  nutrient  contents  of  foods,  the  choices  are 
even  tougher  to  make. 

But  now,  new  government  regulations  require  food  manufacturers  and 
processors  to  provide  dietary  information  on  their  food  products.  There 
is  information  on  saturated  fat,  dietary  cholesterol,  fiber  and  other 
nutrients...items  that  relate  to  today's  health  concerns  about  heart  dis- 
ease, cancer  and  other  diseases  linked,  at  least  in  part,  to  diet. 
One  of  the  recent  changes  involves  new  requirements  for  food  labels. 
The  new  food  label  will  have  a  new  name.  Now  it  will  be  called  Nutrition 
Facts.  That  title  will  signal  to  consumers  that  the  product  is  correctly 
labeled  according  to  the  new  Food  and  Drug  Administration  guidelines. 


New  heading  sig- 
nals a  new  label. 

More  consistent 
serving  sizes,  in 
both  household 
and  metric  mea- 
sures, replace 
those  that  used  to 
be  set  by  manufac- 
turers. 

Nutrients 
required  on 
nutrition  panel 
are  those  most 
important  to  the 
health  of  today's 
consumers,     — ► 
most  of  whom 
need  to  worry 
about  getting  too 
much  of  certain 
items  (fat  for 
example),  rather 
than  too  few  vit- 
amins or  miner- 
als, as  in  the 
past. 


Conversion  guide 
helps  consumers 
learn  caloric  value 
of  the  energy-pro- 
ducing nutrients 


Nutrition  Facts 

Serving  Size  1  cup  (228g) 
Servings  Per  Container  2 


Amount  Per  Serving 

Calories  250  Calories  from  Fat  110 


%  Daily  Value , 


Total  Fat  12g 


18% 


Saturated  Fat  3  g 


15% 


Cholesterol  30  mg 


10% 


Sodium  470  mg 


20% 


Total  Carbohydrate  31  g 


10% 


Dietary  Fiber  Og 


0% 


Sugars  5g 


Protein  5g 


Vitamin  A  4% 


Vitamin  C  2% 


Calcium  20% 


Iron  4% 


Percent  Daily  Values  are  based  on  a  2,000  calorie 
diet.  Your  daily  values  may  be  higher  or  lower 
depending  on  your  calorie  needs. 

Calories  2,000  2,500 


Total  Fat        Less  than  65g  80g 

Sat  Fat  Less  Than  20g  25g 

Cholesterol    Less  Than  300mg  300mg 

Sodium  Less  Than  2,400mg  2,400mg 

Total  Carbohydrate  300g  375g 

Dietary  Fiber  25g  30g 


Calories  per  gram: 
Fat  9 


Carbohydrate 


Protein 


New  mandatory 
component  helps 
consumers  meet 
dietary  guidelines 
recommending  no 
.more  than  30%  of 
calories  from  fat. 


%  Daily  Value 
shows  how  a 
.food  fits  into 
the  overall 
daily  diet. 


Reference  val- 
ues help  con- 
sumers learn 
good  diet 
.  basics.  They 
can  be  adjust- 
ed, depending 
on  a  person's 
calorie  needs. 


12 


The  New  Food  Label  - 
What  to  Look  For 

The  new  food  label  can  serve  as  an  important  guide  to  better 
nutrition,  but  only  if  you  use  it. 
What  should  you  look  for? 

First  of  all,  nutrient  content  claims,  such  as  "low  calorie,"  may 
appear  on  the  front  label.  These  claims  will  signal  -  truthfully  -  if 
a  food  is  high  in  a  nutrient  that  most  of  us  need  to  consume  less 
of.  This  may  be  good  if  you're  trying  to  reduce  your  intake  of 
calories,  fat  or  cholesterol.. .or  if  you're  trying  to  eat  more  fiber 
or  potassium. 

Likewise,  health  claims  on  some  labels  will  point  out  a  food's 
nutritional  qualities  that  help  reduce  the  risk  of  certain  long- 
term  diseases, 
such  as  heart  dis- 
ease or  cancer. 
The  "Nutrition 
Facts"  will  give 
more  in-depth 
information  to 
help  you  choose 
foods  that  fit  in 
with  a  more 
healthful  diet. 
Now  it's  easier 
than  ever  to  eat 
healthy  -  just 
read  the  label. 


Nutrition  Facts 

Serving  Size  1  cup  (228g) 
Servings  Per  Container  2 


Amount  Per  Serving 

Calories  250  Calories  from  Fat  110 


%  Daily  Value 


Total  Fat  12g 


18% 


Saturated  Fat  3  g 


15% 


Cholesterol  30  mg 


10% 


Sodium  470  mg 


20% 


Total  Carbohydrate  31  g 


10% 


Dietary  Fiber  Og 


0% 


Sugars  5g 


Protein  5g 


Vitamin  A  4% 


Vitamin  C  2% 


Calcium  20% 


Iron  4% 


Percent  Daily  Values  are  based  on  a  2,000  calorie 
diet.  Your  daily  values  may  be  higher  or  lower 
depending  on  your  calorie  needs. 

Calories  2.000  2.500 

Total  Fat         Less  than  65g  80g 

Sat  Fat  Less  Than  20g  25g 

Cholesterol    Less  Than  300mg  300mg 

Sodium  Less  Than  2.400mg  2.400mg 

Total  Carbohydrate  300g  375g 

Dietary  Fiber  25g  30g 

Calories  per  gram: 

Fat  9  •  Carbohydrate  •  Protein 


Cooking  Hints 


13 


Getting  Specific 

Here  are  examples  of  the  meanings  of  some  descriptive  words 
used  in  food  labeling. 


SUGAR 


Sugar 
Free 

Reduced 
Sugar 

Less  than  0.5  grams      No  added  sugar 
per  serving.                 Without  added  sugar 

No  sugar  added 

At  least  25%  less  sugar 
per  serving  than  reference 
food. 

Processing  does  not 
increase  content 
above  the  amount 
found  naturally. 

CALORIES 

Calorie 

Fewer  than  5  calories 

Free 

per  serving. 

Low 
Calorie 

40  calories  or  less  per 
serving...  or  if  the  serving 
is  30  grams  or  less...  per 
50  grams  of  the  food. 

Reduced 
Calorie 

At  least  25%  fewer        Fewer  Calories 
calories  per  serving  than 
reference  food. 

CHOLESTEROL 

Cholesterol  Free 

Less  than  2  milligrams 
(mg)  of  cholesterol  and 
2  g  of  saturated  fat 
per  serving. 

Low  Cholesterol 

20  mg  or  less  cholesterol 

and  2  g  or  less  of  saturated  fat 
per  serving  or  per  50  g 
of  food  than  reference  food. 


Reduced  or 
Less  Cholesterol 


At  least  25%  less 
cholesterol  and  2  g  or  less 
saturated  fat  per  serving 
than  reference  food. 


14 


FAT 
Fat  Free 

Saturated  Fat  Free 


Low  Fat 


Low  Saturated  Fat 


Reduced  Fat 
Less  Fat 

Reduced  or  Less 
Saturated  Fat 


Less  than  0.5  g  of  fat  per  serving. 

Less  than  0.5  g  per  serving  and  the  level 
of  saturated  fatty  acids  does  not  exceed  1% 
of  total  fat. 

3  g  less  per  serving...or  per  50  g  of  the  food  if 
serving  is  30  g  or  less,  or  less  than  2  tablespoons. 

1  g  or  less  per  serving  and  not  more  than 
15%  of  calories  from  saturated  fatty  acids. 

At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 


At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 


SODIUM 
Sodium  Free 
Low  Sodium 


FIBER 


High  Fiber 


Less  than  5  mg  per  serving. 

140  mg  or  less  per  serving  or  per  50  g  of  food. 


Very  Low  Sodium         35  mg  or  less. 

Reduced  or  Less  At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 

Sodium 


5  g  or  more  per  serving.  Foods  making  this  claim 
must  meet  the  definition  for  low  fat  or  the  level  of 
fat  must  appear  next  to  the  high  fiber  claim. 


Good  Source  of  Fiber    2.5  g  to  4.9  g  of  fiber  per  serving. 

More  or  Added  Fiber     At  least  25%  more  fiber  than  reference  food. 


Cooking  Hints 


15 


1123-F 


r>*    %~4f    *    *    *     * 


FAVORITE  RECIPES 


Recipe  Name 


Page  No. 


Notes 


Published  and  Printed  By 
Fundcraft  Publishing 

P.O.  Box  340 
Collierville,  TN  38027 


16 


Country  Manor  Antiques 

"!A  Collection  of  Shops" 


A  Group  Of  Quality  Dealers  in 
a  Restored  "  Civil  War'*  Farmhouse 


Featuring  a  Fine  Selection  of  Authentic 
Southern  Country  Furniture  and  Accessories 


Our  Tradition  of  Excellence  Continues... 


SHOP  HOURS. 

Than.  -  Sat. 
lfcOO  A.M.  -  6:00  P.M. 


Sunday 
1:00  P.M.  -  6:00  P.M. 


PHONE  (919)  998-2207 


HWY.  801         ADVANCE,  N.C 


10  Miles  West  of  Winston-Salem  off  of  1-40  on  HWY    801   South 
Advance,  North  Carolina  27006 


-|2»]  Bridgeport  National 
^^  Bindery,  Inc. 

MAY  2000 


