T/\n5\ 


Class 

Book ^_3l 


fopiglitlli 


CQFXKIGHT  DEPOSm 


«1  I 

CANCEL'S 


Culinary  Encyclopedia 

MODERN  COOKING 


THE    MOST    COMPLETE    AND   CONCISE    GLOSSARY 
EVER    COMPILED    AND    PUBLISHED 

Over  8,000  Recipes  and  300  Articles 


ALIMENTARY,    HYGIENIC, 

DIET     AND     HOUSEHOLD 

RECIPES. 

TABLE  SERVICE      :  :     ORDER  OF  SERVICE  OF  WINES 
MARKET    LIST,    ETC. 


English  and  Freneh   Editions 
^WE     PRICE:    $2.50     l?*^ 


ON  SALE  AT  EVERY  BOOK  STORE 


x>. 


<k: 


ft.* 


Copyrighted,  1920 
Cancel,  149  Mason  St.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


■\ 


©C(ii576543 


"L'animal   se   repait,   i'homme   mange; 
L'homme   d'esprit  seul   sait   manger." 

— Brillat-Savarin. 

"Mon    art   est   de   flatter   I'appetit,   votre   devoir 
est  de   le   regler." — Careme. 

"La  qualite  la  plus  indispensable  du  cuisinier  est  Texactitude; 
elle  doit  etre  aussi  celle  du  convie. — Brillat-Savarin. 


PREFACE 


The  prevailing  custom  among  the  best  hotels 
and  restaurants  of  printing  their  menus  in  French 
has  resulted  in  a  continually  increasing  number 
of  guests  who  demand  of  the  waiter  a  descrip- 
tion of  a  dish  before  ordering  it.  The  waiter 
frequently  guesses,  often  wide  of  the  mark,  and 
the  result  is  a  disappointed  and  dissatisfied  guest, 
or  the  waiter  Toothers  a  too  busy  chef  whose  des- 
cription is  necessarily  l^rief,  hurried  and  incom- 
plete. The  latter  way  consumes  a  waiter's  valu- 
able time  and  tries  the  patience  of  a  hungry  and 
waiting  diner.         ,  \ 

My  aim,  therefore,  in  compiling  this  bool^  has 
been  to  supply  head  waiters  and  waiters  with 
immediate,  accurate  and  sufficiently  detailed  in- 
formation to  enable  them  to  quickly  ^furnish  a 
patron  with  a  satisfactory  descriptioii^oi  any  dish 
on  the  menu.    -  u  '*'A  /^ '  . 

Chefs,  managers,  stewards^  #€^li|i^'iw^iters, 
housewives,  etc.,  furthermore  willJ:^f?<Jv5^L^tiames 
or  recipes  of  many  dishes  not  to  ^^kyn^  else"^ 
where,  and"  the    descriptions,  tJiQUgh    B:^itf,    are 


sufficient  for  any  one  for  the  variation  of  their 
menus. 

Forty-five  years  of  experience  in  the  best 
and  largest  hotels  and  restaurants  of  Europe 
and  America,  as  stated  below,  has  enabled  me 
to  collect  over  8,000  recipes  as  made  by  them. 
This  '^Encyclopedia"  will  facilitate  the  work  be- 
tween the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen,  enable 
both  to  ''pull  together,"  expedite  the  service, 
and  prove  generally  satisfactory. 

That  my  colleagues  and  all  interested  will 
find  therein  a  realization  of  my  aims,  is  the 
sincere  v/ish  of 

Yours  fraternally, 

J.    CANCEL. 


MY   REFERENCES 


Apprenticeship:     Rennes,   France,   1874. 

Forty-five  years  of  experience  as  chef  with  the  best  liotels 
of  Europe  and  America.     These  hotels  include  the  following- 

Tlie  AValdorf- Astoria  and  Shen-y's,  New  York;  Cafe  de  1« 
Paix,  Paris;  Rocher  de  Cancale  and  Bertraxid,  Antwerp; 
Brazilian  Embassy,  Brussels;  Press  Club,  Paris;  Hotel 
Bellevue,  Brussels;  Grand  Hotel,  Paris;  Continental  Hotel, 
Ostende;  Grand  Hotel,  Brussels;  Union  League  Club,  New 
York;  Restaurant  du  Moulin  Rouge,  Paris;  Plaza  Hotel,  New 
York;  Hotel  des  Roches  Noires,  Trouville;  Baron  Rothschild, 
Vienna;  Palais  de  I'Industrie,  Paris;  Kursaal,  Ostende; 
Hotel   Splendide,   Paris;   Belleclair,  New  York. 

For  two  years  at  Taifs  Cafe,  San  Francisco. 

Present  time.   Chef  at  Family  Club,   San  Francisco. 

—  4  — 


AVANT-PROPOS 

(Introduction) 


In  presenting  this  culinary  book  to  the  public,  I  can 
conscientiously  say  that  it  is  the  most  complete  and  up- 
to-date  book  ever  prepared  on  the  subject. 

A  large  portion  of  this  book  has  been  translated  from 
mj'  French  book. 

I  am  noi  a  literary  man,  but  I  know  that  even  with 
the  difficulty  that  exists  in  expressing  in  English  many 
of  the  French  terms,  this  book  will  be  easily  understood 
and  greatl}^  appreciated. 

This  is  the  first  time  in  history  that  such  a  wonder- 
ful collection  of  recipes  has  been  made  obtainable  for 
general  use.  A  careful  study  of  the  recipes  and  care- 
ful application  of  the  directions  for  same  is  all  that  is 
necessary  to  produce  the  results  that  have  become 
famous. 

One  word  about  the  transformation  of  the  ancient  to 
the  modern  cooking.  The  application  of  fire  for  cook- 
ing purposes  dates  from  the  time  or  betv/een  the  time 
of  the  Anthropophagi  and  the  Aryan  race  when 
men  drank  the  blood  of  animals,  ate  the  intestines  and 
roasted  the  carcass.  It  is  difficult  to  precise  at  just 
what  epoch  man  used  fire  for  cooking.  It  is  historically 
known  that  civilization  and  culinary  luxuries  existed 
with  the  Greeks  to  a  high  degree  of  perfection  and 
were  greatly  superior  to  our  modern  cooking;  also  the 
Greeks  were  advanced  eighteen  centuries  before  the 
Italians,  Germans,  Russians  and  Gauls  in  the  art  of 
cooking.  The  French  are  universally  known  as  the 
best  culinary  artists.  It  is  always  with  a  dinner  that 
we  celebrate  three  phases  in  life,  namely:  birth,  marri- 
age and  death. 

Certain  authors  claim  that  the  kitchen  is  a  temple 
and    the    range    an    altar.     Unfortunately,    all    kitchens 


are  not  temples,  and  in  my  long  experience  in  hotels 
and  restaurants  I  certainly  have  come  across  a  great 
many  obstacles. 

A  model  kitchen  is  yet  to  be  made.  The  architect  or 
proprietor  does  not  wish  to  consult  with  competent 
culinary  people.     Of  course,  I  speak  for  certain  houses. 

When  one  sees  the  magnificent  and  gorgeous  hotels 
and  restaurants  and  then  visits  the  kitchens,  which  are 
mostly  situated  in  basements,  obscure  and  badly  venti- 
lated, it  must  be  realized  how  an  hygienic  installation 
is  necessary. 

There  are  a  few  modern  hotels  and  restaurants  who 
have  commenced  to  reconstruct  the  kitchens,  but  it 
will  take  a  long  time  to  establish  an  hygienic  one.  An 
hygienic  kitchen  should  conform  to  the  necessities  of 
the  work. 

When  you  see  the  cooks  come  out  of  the  basement 
kitchens,  pale  and  very  often  rheumatic,  it  is  no  wonder 
that  they  are  so,  considering  that  they  have  been  shut 
up  in  such  an  atmosphere,  forced  to  inhale  the  gas 
from  the  range  and  the  fumes  generating  in  the  cook- 
ing utensils.  Pressed  by  the  headwaiter  and  others 
for  two  or  three  consecutive  hours  to  "hurry  up,"  these 
men  return  to  their  homes  tired  out.  Give  to  these 
men  sanitary,  hygienic,  well  lighted  and  ventilated 
kitchens.  Such  would  be  an  act  of  humanity  as  well  as 
a  public  necessity. 

The  walls  of  the  kitchens  should  be  made  of  enameled 
bricks  and  the  floors  of  concrete.  The  range,  as  much 
as  possible  in  the  center,  surrounded  by  an  iron  grat- 
ing, sprinkled  with  sawdust,  a  ventilator  and  aspiring 
apparatus  to  aspire  the  heat  and  steam  that  escapes. 
The  tables  and  shelves  should  be  made  of  steel,  to  facili- 
tate their  cleaning.  All  of  the  table  service  should  be 
kept  in  the  heating  oven.  All  the  cooking  utensils 
should  be  in  bi-metal,  copper  or  aluminum.  Enameled 
utensils  should  never  be  used,  and  should  be  strictly 
prohibited,  as  there  is  great  danger  of  pieces  of  enamel 
breaking  and  mixing  with  the  food,  which  causes  ap- 
pendicitis and  other  serious   diseases. 

AUTHOR. 


—  6  — 


HORS-D'OEUVRE 

DIFFERENT    VARIETIES    OF    RELISHES 

Many   relishes   are  served   for   Entrees 

The  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans  considered  relishes 
a  great  delicacy,  so  it  is  nothing  new  in  the  modern 
cooking  of  today. 

There  are  two  different  kinds  of  relishes,  hot  and 
cold,  and  should  be  served  before  the  soup,  principally 
the  cold  ones,  as  the  hot  relishes  are  sometimes  served 
as  small  entrees. 

But  if  the  hot  relishes  are  desired,  one  should  be 
careful  not  to  serve  the  same  as  any  other  dish  already 
composing  the  menu. 

There  are  a  great  many  varieties  of  hot  and  cold  rel- 
ishes, and  they  should  be  made  very  fancy  to  excite 
the  appetite. 

Cold  relishes  such  as  oysters,  caviar,  olives,  radishes, 
celery  and  sardines  should  be  kept  on  ice  or  in  a  cool 
place  and  served  only  a  few  seconds  before  eating. 


Relishes,   Shrimps 


RELISHES    (Hors-d'OEuvre) 

Abbreviations:  H.,  Hot;  C,  Cold;  Gar.,  Garnished; 
Jul.,  Julienne. 
Aceto,  C.     Vegetable  and  fruit  pickled  in  vinegar. 
Achards,   C.      Macedoine     of     vegetables,     pickled     in 
mustard. 

—  7 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

AgnoHti,   C.   Small  patties  of  noodle  paste  with   divers 

meat.  (Ravioli  style.) 
Agoursis,  C.  Dill  pickles. 
Aiguillette,   C.   Sticks  of    puff  paste,   gar.    with    divers 

stuffing. 
Ailumette,    C.   Match   sticks   of   puff  paste   with   divers 

stuffing  or  w.  cheese. 
Ambigu,  C.  Rich  buffet  of  fancy  assorted  meat. 
Amandes,    C.   Almonds,    peeled,   dried,   gummed,    salted, 

brovrned   in  oven. 
Americain   C.   Sweet  mixed  pickles  in  bottle. 
Anchoyade,   C.   Anchovies   puree   and   toast   with   sliced 

onions  and  hard  egg  basted  with  olive  oil. 
Anchois,  C.  Anchovies  Canape  or  medallion  shaped,  in 
-    salad,  or  served  with  divers  stuffing. 
Anguille,  C.  Eel  in  jelly.     Pie  or  smoked. 
Antipasti,  C.  Italian  relishes,  pickled  fish   (in  can). 
Artichokes,  C.  or  H.  Raw  with  pepper  sauce  or  salad, 
,  bottom  cooked  garnished  divers  style.     Hot,  garnished 

with  divers  puree  or  salad.     Greek  style,  C,  scalded 

pickled  w.  oil,  vinegar,  w.  Jul.,  celery,  carrots,  spices. 
Aspic,   C.   All   meat,    chicken,    game,   fish,   in   decorated 

mould,  with  jelly. 
Attereaw,  H.  Oysters,  chicken,  sweetbreads,  cooked   on 

skewer,    enveloped    Villeroy    sauce,    breaded    English 

style,  fried,  divers  sauce. 
Barquettes,  H.   and   C.   Small   boat  of  paste,   gar.   with 

caviar  puree,  salad,  etc. 
Beets,  C.  Pickled,  sliced,  in  dice,  salad,  etc. 
Beignets,  H.  Fritters,  of  fish,  meat,  vegetables,  dipped  in 

batter,  fried. 
Beurrecks,   H.    Turkish    relishes,    croquettes    of   cottage 

cheese  cigar  shape  enveloped  in  noodle  paste,  breaded 

English  style,  fried. 
Blinis,   H.   Small   buckwheat   cakes,     made   with   yeast, 

served  with  caviar. 
Boeuf  fume,  C.  Smoked  beef  cornet-shaped  or  sliced. 
Bondons,  C.    Cylindrical  mould,    filled  with  forcemeat, 

poached.     Divers   sauce. 
Bonne-Bouche,  C.  Cream  puff  filled  with  puree  of  foie- 

gras  mixed  w.  whipped  cream. 


RELISHES 


Bouchees,  H.  and  C.  Small  patties,  round,  square,  oval, 

filled  with  divers  puree,  or  salpicon.    (See  under  head- 
ing of  Bouchees.) 
Boudin,  H.    (Black)    Blood  pudding,   broiled,  fried  with 

divers  garnish.       (White),     chicken,     fish,     foie-gras, 

game,  forcemeat,  divers  sauce  and  garnishing. 
Bouillant,  H.  Small  puff  paste  patties,  divers  garnishing. 
Boutargue,  C.  Fish  eggs,  salted  or  smoked. 
Bressoles,  H.  Oval  mould  filled  with  forcemeat,  chicken, 

game,  etc.,  center  filled  with  foie-gras.    Breaded,  Eng- 
lish style  and  fried.     Divers  sauce. 
Brissotrns,  H.  Cylindrical  mould  filled  with  force  meat, 

center     removed     and     filled     with     divers     salpicon, 

breaded  English  style  and  fried. 
Brochettes,   H.   Fish,   shellfish,   meat,   game,   etc.     (See 

Skewers.) 
Buffet   Russe,  C.  Russian  relish,  a  special  small  buffet 

in   glass   stand,   garnished   with   divers   Russian   fish, 

caviar,  sigui,  etc. 
Caisses,  H.  or  C.  Paper,  porcelain  or  silver  cases  filled 

Avith  divers  salpicon.     (See  Salpicon.) 
Canape,  H.  or  C.  Bread,  cut  divers  form,  garnished  with 

fish,   chicken,   foie-gTas  puree.    (See   Canape.) 
Cannelons,  H.  or  C.     Cone    shape  in  puff    paste    filled 

w.  divers  salpicon. 
Capres,  Caper  buds,  pickled 
Caroline,  Eclair  filled  with  puree  of  chicken,  foie-gras, 

game,   etc.  glazed  with   chaudlfroid   sauce. 
Cassolettes,  H.  Silver,  or  small  porcelain  casserole,  filled 

with  divers  salpicon  or  other  article. 
Caviar,  C.   Served  in    special    caviar    glass,    packed    in 

shaved  ice  on    glass  dish,    gar.  with    chopped  onion, 

lemon,  toast  or  Russian  pancakes.     (See  Blinis.) 
Celestines,  C.  Slices  of  foie-gras,  enveloped  with  Mont- 

glas  sauce,  breaded  and  fried.  (See  Salpicon  Montglas) 
Celery,  C.  In  glass  stands,  branches  stuffed  with  cheese, 

cut  in  Julienne  for  salad,  etc. 
Cerises,  C.  Cherries,  pickled  in  vinegar  or  salted. 
Ciernikis,   H.    Russian   cake    with    cheese,    filled    with 

divers  salpicon.    (See  Salpicon.) 


GANCEL'S     CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Cerneaux,  C.    Fresh  green  peeled    walnuts,    with    sour 

grape  juice. 
Champignons,  C.  Fresh  mushrooms,  cooked  divers  stuf- 

ing  with  anchovies,  salad,  etc.,  or  Greek  Style.     (See 

mushrooms.) 
Chaud,  C.  Divers  vegetables,  highly  seasoned, 
Choux,  H.  or  C.  Cabbage,  white  or  red,  in  Julienne,  cold 

slaw  or  pickled. 
Chow-Chow,  C.  Mixed  vegetables  pickled  in  mustard. 
Chutney,  C.  Indian  relishes,  Major  Gray  in  bottle. 
Columbine,   H.   Divers   salpicon   between   two   layers   of 

rice,  breaded  English  style  and  fried.  (See  S'alpicon.) 
Concombre,  C.    Cucumber,    sliced,    salted,    pickled,  oil, 

cream  and  paprika,  in  dice  for  stuffing. 
Corbeilles,  H.,  Paste  basket  filled  with  divers  garnishing. 
Cornets,  H.  or  C.  Paste  made  cone  shape,  filled  divers 

puree  or   salpicon  or   sliced  smoked   beef  or   salmon 

cone  shape  garnished  with  parsley. 
Cornichons,  C.  Pickled  gherkins   (See  Gherkins)   shaped 

in  wooden-shoe  form,  filled  divers  salad. 
Cotelettes,  H.  or  C.  Chop-shaped  forcemeat  or  salpicon, 

divers  garnishing.     (See  under  head  of  Croquettes  or 

Forcemeat.) 
Coulibiac,  C.  Russian  pie  w.  sturgeon.    Bun  paste  filled 

with  visigha,  cooked  kashe,  hard  egg,  onions,  mush- 
rooms, fine  herbs,  all  chopped. 
Crepes,  H.  Pancake  without  sugar,  stuffed  with  divers 

puree,  cut    in    lozenges,    breaded    English    style    and 

fried. 
Cretes  de  Coq,  Cock's  combs   (See  Cock's  Comb)   fresh 

or     in     bottled,     enveloped,   Villeroy   sauce,   breaded, 

English  style  and  fried.    Ch.  kidneys  same. 
Crevettes,  H.  or  C.  Shrimps  (See  Shrimps)  salad,  cock- 
tail. 
Cromequis,  H.  Salpicon  enveloped  with  caul,  dipped  in 

batter  and  fried,  divers  sauce.    (S'ee  Croquettes.) 
Croustade,  H.  Crust  in  paste  filled  with  divers  salpicon. 

(See  Salpicon.) 
Croquettes,  H.   Divers   salpicon,   breaded  English  style, 
Croute,  H.  Small  fancy  bread  empty,  or  shaped  garnished 

divers  style. 

—  10  — 


RELISHES 

Dartois,  H.  Puff  paste  garnished  with  divers  forcemeat 
(See  Forcemeat).     Cut  one  inch  square. 

Diplomate,  C.  Large  dih,  gar.  w.  decorated  small  fancy- 
relishes. 

Dolphette,  C.  Divers  salpicon  crescent  shape,  breaded 
English  style  and  fried.   (See  Salpicon.) 

Domino,  C.  Toast  cut  domino  shape,  covered  with  puree 
of  foie-gras;  spots  made  with  truffles. 

Duchesse,  H.  cream  puff  filled  with  divers  puree,  glazed 
with  chaud-froid  sauce. 

Eclair,  C.  Cream  puff,  eclair  shape,  filled  with  divers 
puree,  glazed  with  chaud-froid  sauce. 

Ecrevisses,  H.  and  C.  Crawfish  in  court  bouillon  highly 
seasoned  with  white  wine  (See  Crawfish)  for  divers 
style. 

Escabeche,  C.  Fish  fried  in  oil,  pickled  in  jelly,  es- 
pecially for  the  trout  in  tureen. 

Escoffier,  C.  Divers  relishes — Escoffier  brand. 

Fenouil,  Fennel,  fresh  stalk  or  pickled. 

Feu i Me,  C.  Lettuce  leaves  filled  with  anchovies,  caviar, 
salad,  etc.  decorated  with  chopped  eggs,  coral  and 
parsley. 

Figues,  C.  Figs,  fresh  or  preserved. 

Foie-gras,  C.  Goose  liver  in  aspic,  pate,  crust,  tureen, 
in  the  shape  of  apples  or  cherries. 

Fondant,  C.  Croquette  of  fine  puree.    (See   Croquette.) 

Friandise,  C.  S'mall  assorted  fine  relishes  decorated  or 
peppermint  and  divers  candies. 

Fritots,  H.  Cooked  chicken,  game,  fish,  etc.,  pickled  in 
lemon,  dipped  in  batter  and  fried. 

Frivolites,  C.  Small  dainty  fancy  relishes,  decorated. 

Frou-Frou,  H.  (See  Crepes,  in  Relishes).     Divers  styles. 

Fruit,  All  fruit  served  very  cold. 

Fruit  de  Mer,  H.  or  C.  All  of  shellfish.  Divers  styles  or 
pickled. 

Grecque,  C.  Divers  vegetables  pickled.  (See  Artichokes, 
in  Vegetables.) 

Harengs,  C.  Herrings,  smoked,  pickled,  salad,  etc. 

HuTtres,  H.  and  C.  Oysters  on  half-shell,  pickled,  cock- 
tail, stuffed  medallion  shape,  etc. 

—  11  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Kilkis,  C.  Norwegian  anchovies,  divers  styles. 

Legurrics,  C.  Vegetables,  fancy  shaped,  cooked,  filled 
with  salad  puree,  etc. 

Macedoine,  C.  Mixed  fancy  small  vegetables,  pickled. 

Malvolsie,  H.  S'mall  souffles  of  chicken  or  game;  center 
filled  with  divers  salpicon  (see  Salpicon),  top  decor- 
ated.  (See  Forcemeat.) 

Manchons,  H.  Muff  shaped,  chicken  or  game  forcemeat, 
poached;  ends  breaded  with  chopped  truffles,  center 
breaded  with  chopped  pistachio,  divers  sauces.  (See 
Forcemeat.) 

Mangue,  C.  Tropical  fruit.     Pickled  mongoe. 

Maquereaux,  C.  Small  mackerel,  fresh,  pickled  or  pre- 
served. 

Mazagran,  H.  Divers  Salpicon  between  two  layers  of 
Duchess  potatoes^  baked  -in  oven. 

Medallions,  C.  All  canapes  medallion  shape  filled  with 
puree,  etc.,  decorated.  (See  Canape.) 

Melons,  C.  Melon  cold  on  ice  or  preserved. 

Mignardises,  C.  Assorted  dainty  small  relishes. 

Mondaine,  C.  Assortment  of  fine  and  very  small  relishes, 
decorated. 

Mortadeile,  C.  Large  Italian  bologna  sausage. 

Mouses,  H.  and  C.  Mussels  out  of  the  shell,  pickled  or 
fried. 

Mousse  or  Mousse! ine,  H.  and  C.  Forcemeat,  chicken^ 
game,  foie-gras,  ham,  etc.,  mixed  with  whipped  creianij 
fill  in  decorated  mould.   (See  forcemeat.) 

Museaux,C.  Muzzle,  beef  or  veal,  sliced  after  cooked. 
Very  thin  in  salad  or  pickled. 

Neiuskis,  C.  Cottage  cheese,  enveloped  in  pancake.  Dip- 
ped in  batter  and  fried. 

Nectarine,  C.  Mousse  of  foie-gras,  covered  chaud-froid 
sauce,  decorated  Avith  truffles  and  pistachio.  (See 
Mousse  and  Timbale.) 

Ncix,  C.  Pickled  walnuts,  in  bottle. 

CEufs,  C.  Eggs  stuffed  with  divers  purees,  caviar,  ancho- 
vies, salad,  etc.,  decorated. 

Oie  fumee,  C.  Smoked  goose,  sliced,  cone  shape,  etc. 

Olives,  C.  Green,  ripe,  stuffed  with  anchovies,  etc. 

—  12  — 


RELISHES 


Oignons,  C.  Small  onions,  scalded,  pickled,  stuffed.  (See 
Onions.) 

Ombrelle,  H.  Umbrella  large  mushroom,  filled  with 
divers  garnishings,  with  fancy  handle  of  noodle  paste 
bov/  of  ribbon. 

Paillettes,  C.  or  H.  Sticks  of  puff  paste  made  with  cheese. 

Pain,  C.  or  H.  Decorated  mould,  fil.  w.  forcemeat;  cold 
with  jelly.    (See  Timbale  and  Mousse.) 

Paimette,  H.  Divers  forcemeat  mousseline  in  heart 
shape  mould,  breaded  English  style,  fried. 

Panlers,  H.  Basket  made  of  spaghetti,  filled  with  eggs, 
shape  of  divers  forcemeat,  sauce  according. 

Pancake,  H.    (See  Crepes  or  Frou-frou  Relishes.) 

Pascal,  C.  Sweet  butter,  mixed  with  anchovies  and  sar- 
dines decorated.   (See  Butter  and  Composition.) 

Pates,  H.  and  C,  Pies  of  game,  chicken,  fish  (See  Tim- 
bale  and  Mousse)  or  small  patties  filled  divers  Sal- 
picon. 

Paupiette,  H.  and  C.  Small  rolled  any  meat  or  fish  stuf- 
fed, glazed  and  decorated. 

Pellemenes,  H.  Divers  Salpicon  filled  between  two  lay- 
ers noodle  paste,  poached,  served  with  melted  butter 
and  lemon  juice,  chopped  parsley. 

Peries  d'Arkangel,  C.  Sweet,  large  caviar,  first  quality. 

Picalilli,  C.  Pickled  vegetable  with  mustard. 

Pickles,  C.  minced  vegetables  with  mustard  or  pickled, 
also  sweet. 

Piment  or  Pimento,  H.  or  C.  Green  or  sweet  red  pepper, 
cut  in  Jul.  or  divers  stuffing,  salad,  etc. 

Piroguis,  H.  Russian  patties,  divers  style. 

Poireaux,  H.  and  C.  Leeks,  white,  cut  5  inches,  scalded, 
stuffed  or  Grecque  style. 

Polpettes,  H.  Raw  chopped  lamb  with  udder  in  ball 
shape,  breaded  English  style  and  fried. 

Pomme  d'Arbre,  C.  Emptied  apple,  filled  with  divers 
salad,   salpicon  of  fruit,   etc. 

Pomponette,  H.  Small  ris.soles,  filled  divers  garnishing 
meat,  fruit,  etc.  and  fried.  (See  Rissoles  in  Relishes.) 

Pouipe,  C.  Poulp  cooked,  pickled,  etc. 

Poutargue,  C.  Sausage  of  mullet,  or  tunny  fish     sliced 

very  thin. 


—  13  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Puree,  H.  and  C.  Puree  of  cooked  chicken,  meat,  divers 

style. 
Quiches,  H.  Small  tartelet  filled  with  salt  pork  custard 

and    Swiss   cheese,    baked. 
Quenelles,  H.  Large   quenelles   in  forcemeat,   decorated 

divers  style.   (See  Timbale  and  Mousse.) 
Racines,  C.  All  core  and  roots,  salads,  scalded,  pickled 

with  spices. 
Radis,  C.  Radishes  served  on  ice;  black,  sliced  very  thin. 
Ramequin,  H.   Cream  puff  paste  ball  made  with  Swiss 

cheese,  baked,  filled  with  divers  puree. 
Ramissoles,    H.     Pancake     stuffed    divers    styles.    (See 

(Crepes.) 
Rastegais,  H.  Small  patties  of  salmon,  Russian  style. 
Ravioli,  H.  Italian  dishes  made  noodle  paste  with  divers 

stuffing,  poached,  served  with  tomato  sauce  or  gravy, 

cheese  on  top,  baked. 
Rillettes,   C.     Chopped,  cooked  pork,   spiced,     used  for 

sandwiches. 
Rissoles,  H.  Puff  paste     stuffed  with     divers  salpicon; 

fried  or  baked.  (See  Salpicon.) 


Rissoles 

Russe   (Buffet  Russe)  Russian  relishes,  a  special  small 

buffet  in  glass  stand,  divers  fish. 
Salades,  C.  Variety  of  .small,  fancy  salads, 
Salpicon,  H.  and  C.     See  heading  of  Salpicon.     Divers 

style. 
Salami,  C.   (Italian  sausage)   Sliced  very  thin. 
Sandwiches,  C.  Thin  sliced,  buttered  bread  with  puree, 

sliced  chicken,  meat,  etc.  (See  Sandwiches). 
Sardele,  C.  Half-salted  anchovies,  filets,  etc. 
Sardine,  C.  Preserved  in  oil,  smoked,  fresh,  etc. 

—  14  — 


RELISHES 

Saucisses,   H.   and   C.   Sausages,   fresh,   foie-gras,   crepi- 

nette,  Spanish,  Vienna,  broiled,  fried. 
Saucissons,  C.  Large  sausage,  salami,  Lyon,  bologna,  etc. 
Saumon,  C.  Salmon,  thin  sliced,  smoked,  canape  or  in 

cornet  shape,  etc. 
Sausselis,  C.  Russian  name  for  relishes.   (See  Dartois.) 
Savorys,  H.  and  C.  Fancy  relishes  served  after  ice  cream. 
Sigui,  C.  Russian  smoked  fish,  smoked  whitefish,  sliced 

long  and  narrow. 
Souffles,  H.  and  C.  Forcemeat  of  chicken,  game,  ham, 

game  cooked  in  small  case,  divers  styles. 
Sprouts,   C.   Preserved  smoked  Norwegian  sardine. 
Strasbourgeoise,  H.  and  C.  Small  brioche  empty,  filled 

with  puree  of  foie-gras  and  truffles. 
Subrics,  H.  Cake  gar.  foie-gras,  spinach  with  eggs,  fried 

in  butter  and  turned  over,  sweet  dish.  (See  Subrics). 
Talamouse,  H.  Cream  puff  paste  ball  made  with  parme- 

san  cheese  and  filled  with  cream  cheese. 
Taramin,  C.  Russian  relishes  with  potatoes. 
Tartelettes,  H.  and  C.  All  tartelets  gar.  with  divers  sal- 

picon,  puree,  salad,  etc. 
Thon,  C.  Tunny  preserved  in  oil,  puree,  salad. 
Timbales,  H.  and  C.  Small  mould  decorated,  filled  with 

divers  forcemeat,  or  made  in  paste,  silver,  filled  with 

divers  salpicon.   (See  Timbales  and  Mousseline.) 
Tomates,    C.    Tomatoes,    peeled,    emptied,    filled   with 

salad  or  divers  vegetables,  very  cold. 
Vanneaux,  C.  Hard-boiled  lap-wing  eggs,  served  in  nest 

or  fancy  basket. 

Varenikis,  H.  Russian  relishes  made  with  noodle  paste, 
with  cottage  cheese,  divers  styles,  poached,  sour 
cream. 

Variantes,  C.  Divers  vegetables,  pickled. 

Vatrouski,  H.  Russian  coulibiac  paste  filled  with  cot- 
tage cheese,  baked  in  oven. 

Viniski,  H.  Coulibiac  paste  filled  with  fish,  salpicon,  let 
rise,  fried  in  oil. 

Zampino,  H.  and  C.  Stuffed  pig's  foot.  Italian  style. 

—  15  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


SANDWICHES  AND  CANAPES 

The  sandwich  is  composed  of  two  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered bread,  with  a  thinner  slice  of  meat,  fowl  or  any 
other  cold  meat  between.  Very  fresh  bread  and  butter 
should  be  used. 

If  they  are  made  some  time  before  serving,  they 
should  be  covered  up  with  a  slightly  damp  napkin,  to 
keep  from  drying. 


Canape    (rond) 


Canape    (long) 


The  canape  is  a  slice  of  bread  cut  square,  oval  or 
triangle,  toasted  or  colored  with  butter.  Stuffed  or 
garnished  in  different  styles,  then  trimmed  and  bordered 
according  to  intended  use,  just  as  artistic  as  possible, 
prepared  and  garnished  with  lemon  and  parsley,  served 
on  a  napkin.    Their  names  are  optional. 


Abbreviations:    Can.,  canapes;    San.,  sandwich; 
Bor.,  Bordered;    Gar.,  Garnished. 

Alexandra,    Can.     bottom     artichoke,     gar.    with    caviar, 

bor.  half  green,  half  pink  butter,  on  anchovies,  toast. 
Allemande,   San.  rye  bread,  gar.  ham  with  mustard. 
Anchois,   Ca.  with  anchovies,  butter,  filet  of  anchovies 

on  top,  border     of  chopped  white  and     yolk  of  egg. 

S'an.,  butter  and  anchovies. 
Anglais,  San.  butter  with  English  mustard,  divers  styles. 
Arlequin,   Can.   gar.   with   divers   purees,     half  rye   and 

white  bread.     San.  the  same. 
Garni  lie,  Can.   butter  and   mustard,   border   of  puree   of 

tongue,  chopped  chicken  in  center. 
Cannibal,  San.  split  French  bread  or  roll  buttered,  thin 

sliced   sirloin   cooked    quick   or   raw,   highly   seasoned 

with  ground  pepper. 

—  16  — 


SANDWICHES'  AND   CANAPES 


Caviar,  Can.,  San.,  divers  styles. 

Cheese,  San.  butter,  sliced  cheese,  fondu,  Welsh  Rarebit, 
fry. 

Club,  San.  bread  toasted,  butter,  lettuce  leaf  with 
mayonnaise,  sliced  chicken,  broiled  bacon  or  ham, 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise,  served  hot. 

Concombres,  San.  sliced  cucumber,  butter,  mayonnaise. 

Confiture,  San.  or  tartine.  Sliced  bread  with  jam. 

Crustaces,  Can.  shellfish,  divers  styles,  H.  and  C. 

Danoise,  Can.  "Danish,"  rye  bread,  alternate  stripes  of 
smoked  salmon  and  caviar,  bor.  chopped  egg. 

Demi-Deuil,  Can.  bor.  with  chicken,  forcemeat  with  chop- 
ped truffles,  gar.  with  marrow  and  turtle  fat,  season- 
ing, served  very  hot. 

Fin-de-SiecIe,  Can.  rye  bread,  gar.  with  caviar,  mayon- 
naise, chopped  eggs,  covered  with  sliced  tomatoes, 
anchovies,  stuffed  white  olives  on  top,  chopped  white 
eggs  around. 

Foie-gras,  Can.  or  San.,  sliced  or  puree. 

Fromage,  San.  divers  cheese.    (See  Cheese  fried,  etc.) 

Golden   Buck,  Welsh  Rarebit  with  poached  eggs,  hot. 

Gibier,  Can.  or  San.  All  cooked  game,  sliced  or  puree. 

Greville,  Can.  filled,  chopped  veal  kidney  with  fine 
herbs,  hot. 

Hareng,  Can.  or  San.  gar.  with  filet  or  puree  of  herring. 

Italienne,  Can.  or  San.  gar.  with  salami,  bologna,  morta- 
della  sausage. 

Jarnbon,  Can.  or  San.  gar.  with  sliced  or  puree  of  ham. 

L.  I.  Rarebit,  Welsh  rarebit  mixed  with  raw  egg  yolks, 
served  very  hot. 

Lucille,  Can.  gar.  of  puree  of  chicken,  border  of  puree 
of  tongue. 

Madison,  Can.  gar.  of  Duxelles.  (See  Mirepoix.)  Sliced 
ham,   cov.  Mornay  sa.  w.   Soubise,  glazed. 

Moscovite,  Can.  rye  bread,  border  of  puree  and  smoked 
salmon,  filled  with  caviar. 

Monte-Cristo,  San.  of  Swiss  cheese,  dipped  in  egg,  fried 
in  butter,  hot. 

Noix,  San.  chopped  nuts,  thicken  with  butter  or  cream 
sauce.     (See  Cream,  under  Sauce  for  Salad.) 


—  17  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Norvegienne,  Can.  rye  bread  with  butter,  anchovy  fillet, 

bor.  with  horseradish  butter. 
CEufs,  Can.   or  San.   eggs,   stuffed,  eggs  various  sts'^les, 

fried  for  San.,  boiled,  sliced. 
Olives,   Can.   or   San.   butter,   olives   stuffed  with   sweet 

peppers  chopped  with  cream  cheese. 
Parisienne,  San.  small  fancy  French  bread,  filled  divers 

sliced  meat  or  puree. 
Peanut,   San.  with   peanut  butter     or  chopped  peanuts 

with  lettuce  leaf. 
Poisson,  Can.  or  San.  All  kinds  of  fish  cooked  or  puree, 

mixed  divers  styles. 
Pumpernickel,   Can.   or   San.   pumpernickel   bread     gar. 

with  cottage  cheese,  with  chive,  divers  styles. 
Puree,  Can.  or  San.,  all  kinds  of  puree. 
Rex,  Can.  chopped  chicken,  bacon  and  lettuce  with  may- 
onnaise, two  slices  bacon  in  cross  on  top.     San.  same 

preparation  toasted,   serve  hot. 
Roulee,  San.  bread  sliced  very  thin,  butter,  gar.  divers 

puree  or  salad,  rolled  and  tied  with  ribbon  or  bow. 
Russe,   Can.  or   San.  Canape,  fancy  border,     and   filled 

caviar.     San.   with  caviar. 
Salade,  San.  gar.  with  divers  salad  with  mayonnaise. 

Served  open. 
Saumon,  Can.  or  San.  gar,  with  smoked  salmon  sliced 

or  puree.     Decorated. 
Scotch  Woodcock,  Anchovies,  toast  gar.  with  scrambled 

egg,  anchovy  filet  on  top,  served  hot. 
Tartare,  San.  gar.  with  raw  chopped  meat,  fine  herbs, 

tartar  sauce. 
Tartine,   Sliced  bread  buttered,  gar.  with  puree,  sliced 

meat  or  jam. 
To  mate,  San.  butter  sliced  tomato,  and  lettuce  leaf  and 

mayonnaise. 
Tourangeile,  Can.  or  San.  gar.  with  Rillettes. 
Vero-Doda,  Can.  smoked  bordered  with  Rillettes. 
Viande,   San.   gar.  with  divers  meat. 
Volaille,  Can.  or  San.  gar.  with  sliced  chicken  or  puree.. 
Welsh   Rarebit,  Toat  American  cheese,  ale,  Worcester- 
shire sauce,   mustard,   seasoning,  served  very  hot  in 

earthen  dishes. 

—  18  — 


PATTIES,    VOL-AU-VE)NT,    CRUSTS 

Westphalienne,     Pumpernickel     bread,     buttered,     with 
Westphalian  ham. 

Yorkshire  Buck,  Welsh  rarebit  preparation  with  poached 
egg  and  broiled  bacon  on  top. 

PATTIES    (Bouchees),  VOL-AU-VENT, 
CRUSTS    (Croustades) 

Patties,  in  kitchen  terms,  is  a  small  vol-au-vent  made 
of  puff  paste  and  differs  in  name  according  to  the  shape 
and  the  garnishing  it  contains. 


Small  Patties  (Bouchees) 

In  ancient  cooking,  the  crust  was  made  of  English 
bread  cut  and  shaped  in  an  artistic  manner,  or  in  differ- 
ent pastes. 

There  is  an  imitation  Croustade  paste  which  can  be 
filled  with  garnishings  of  fowl,  game,  fish,  vegetables, 
fruit  and  ice  cream. 


Abbreviations:     All.,  allemande;  art.,  artichokes; 

ch.,  chicken;    gar.,  garnished;    mad.,  Madeira; 

mu.,  mushroom;  sal.,  salpicon;  sup.,  supreme; 

sa.,  sauce;   truf.,  truffles;    w.,  with. 

(See  heading  for  Sauce  and  Garnishing) 

—  19  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Ambassadrice,  Gar.  w.  puree  of  chicken  with  sup.  sauce. 
Andaiouse,  Gar.  w.  art.  ham,  mu.,   quenelle,     mad.   sa., 

with   tomato   sauce. 
Benedictine,  Gar.  w.  fresh  or  salted  codfish  with  cream 

sauce,  with  dice  of  truffles  or  puree. 
Boliemienne,  Crust  of  bun  paste,  gar.  with  foie-gras  and 

truffles.    (See    Salpicon   Montglas.) 
Bouchees,   Patties  of  puff  paste,  round,     oval,   square, 

divers  garnishing. 
Bouquetieres,  Gar.  w.  very  small  fancy  vegetable  cream 

sauce. 
Cardinal,   Gar.  with     lobster  or     divers   shellfish,     fish 

quenelles,   truffles,  lobster,   sauce   or  pink. 


<-  €^"^®ii^^^®ft5^^^^%*^-C;a-^ 


stei- ,  J^^ 


Large  Vol-au-Vent  made  of  puff  paste 

Chasseur,  Gar.  with  all  game  with'i^ushrooms,  truffles, 

madeira  sauce.   (S'ee  Chasseur  sauce.) 
Chevreuse,  Gar.  with  duck's  liver,  game,  truf.,  mad.  sa. 
Croustades,  Crust  shell  of  divers  paste,  etc. 
Dauphine,   Gar.   with  cock's  comb  and  kidney,,  truffles, 

mushrooms,  supreme  sauce. 
Des  Dames,  Gar.  with  chicken,  art,,  truffles,  all  sauces. 
Diable,  Gar.  with  deviled  milt,     of  divers  fish,     highly 

seasoned,  deviled  sauce. 
Diane,  Gar.  with  divers  game  and  truffles,  salmis  sauce. 

(See   Salmis  sauce.) 
Dumonceau,  Gar.  w.  chicken,  liver,  art.,  truf.,  mad.  sa. 

—  20  — 


PATTIES.    VOL-AU-VE.NT,    CRUSTS 

Elysee,   Gar.   with   chicken,   mushrooms,   crawfish   tails, 

Xantua  sauce.   (See  Nantua  sauce.) 
Epicurienne,  Gar.  with  foie-gras,     game,  truffles,     beef 

palate,  Lucullus  sauce. 
Financiere,   Gar.   with   cock's     comb   and   kidney,     mu., 

Truf.,  chicken  quenelle,  sweetbread,  madeira  sauce. 
Fontainebleau,  Gar.  with  chicken,  sweetbread,  artichoke, 

cucumbers  ball,  allernande  sauce. 
Fruits,   Gar.   with   divers   fruits,   salpicon,     syrop   sauce 

with  flavoring  extract  or  liquor. 
Gourmets,     Gar.  v/ith     foie-gras,     truffles,     beef  palate, 

mushrooms,  gourmet  sauce. 


Fancy  Crufetacle.s  made  of  iiaste 


Grand   Due,  Garl  -^vitti  asparagus  tips,  truf.  in  julienne, 

cream  sauce,  slice  of  truffle  on  top. 
Hoilandaise,  Gar.  w.  fresh  salmon,  oysters,  cream  sauce. 
Isabeile,  Gar.  with  chicken  and  smoked  beef  tongue,  sup. 

sa.  w.  chicken  puree,  round  of  tongue  on  top. 
Italienne,  Gar.  with  calf's  brain,  sweetbread,  ham,  lamb 

fries,   madeira  sauce  with  tomatoes. 
Joinville,   Gar.   w.   shrimps,  m.u.,   truf.,   Joinville   sauce.^' 
La  Perouse,  Gar.  w.  lobster  and  oysters,  lobster  sauce. 
Legumes,  Gar.  w.  all  kinds  vegetables,  cream  sauce. 
Lucwfhjs,     Gar.  with  puree     or  dice  of     foie-gras  with 

truffles,  Lucullus  sauce. 

—  21  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Marie  Rose,  Gar.  w.  shrimps,  small  salmon  quenelle, 
truffles,  shrimp  sauce. 

Mariniere,  Gar.  w.  divers  shellfish  or  fish,  mariniere  sa. 

Mazarin,  Gar.  with  quenelle  of  veal  forcemeat,  truffles, 
mushrooms,  madeira  sauce. 

Minuscule,  All  very  small,  patty,  crust,  gar.  w.  divers 
puree. 

Mirabeau,  Gar.  w.  fish  with  cream  sauce,  stuffed  olives, 
w.  fish  puree  and  anchovies  laid  around,  olives  on  top. 

Mogador,  Gar.  with  chicken,  truffles,  tongue,  mush- 
rooms, cream  sauce,  with  foie-gras  puree. 

Monaco,  Gar.  with  chicken,  veal  forcemeat  quenelle, 
mushrooms,  truffles,  Monaco  sauce. 

Monseigneur,  Gar.  with  fish  puree  and  truffles,  coulis 
of  shrimps,  slice  of  truffles  on  tops. 

Montglas,  Gar.  w.  foie-gras,  truffles,  mushrooms  in  dice, 
madeira  sauce  w.  tomato,  or  chicken,  tongue,  mu.  truf. 

Nantua,  Gar.  w.  crawfish  tails,  Nantua  sauce. 

Nesles,  Gar.  with  lamb,  truffles,  mushrooms,  all  sauces. 

Pates,  Patties  gar.  w.  divers  styles. 

Perigueux  or  Perigourdine,  Gar.  w.  truf.  in  dice  or  puree, 
mad.  sa.  or  truffles,  stewed  divers  sauce. 

Peters,  Gar.  with  oysters  and  mushrooms,  Newburg  sa. 

Poissons,  Gar.  w.  fish  or  puree,  divers  gar.  and  sauce. 

Primeurs,  Gar.  with  all  new  vegeables,  cream  sauce. 

Princesse,  Gar.  w.   ch.,  puree  w.  truf.,  thick  cream  sa. 

Regence,  Gar.  w.  sweetbread,  mu.,  chicken  quenelle, 
cock's  comb  and  kidney,  truffles,  supreme  sauce,  same 
with  fish,  Normande  sauce. 

Reine,  Gar.  w.  salpicon  of  chicken  or  chicken  puree. 

Ris  (Sweetbread),  gar.  with  sweetbread  or  lamb  sweet- 
bread, mushrooms,  truffles,  divers  sauces. 

Royale,  Car.  w.  foie-gras,  sweetbread,  mushrooms,  truf- 
fles, allemande  sauce  with  crawfish  butter. 

St.  Cloud,  Gar.  w.  julienne  of  chicken,  mushrooms', 
tongue,  supreme  sauce  with  mushrooms, 

St.  Hubert,  Gar.  with  game  puree,  or  game  salpicon. 

Senonaise,  Gar.  with  pork  quenelle,  sliced  mushrooms, 
madeira  sauce. 

Strasbourgeoise,  Gar.  w.  foie-gras,  truffles  in  dice  or 
puree,  hot  or  cold. 

—  22  — 


SKEWERS,  SALPICONS 


Stuart,  Gar.  w.   chicken,  mushrooms,  truffles,  supreme 

sauce  with  crawfish  butter. 

Toulouse,   Gar.   with   chicken,   sweetbread,   calf's   brain, 

quenelle,  cock's  comb  and  kidney,  truffles,  all  sauces 

garnished  with  crawfish  on  top. 
Tourte,  Old-fashioned  vol-au-vent.    (See  Vol-au-Vent.) 
Turbigo,  Gar.  w.  foie-gras,  art.,  truffles,  allemande  sauce. 
Victoria,  Gar.  w.  lobster,  truffles,  mushrooms,  lobster  sa. 
Volaille,  Chicken,  gar.  w.  ch.,  truf.,  mu.,  etc.,  divers  style. 
Vol-au-Vent,   Small  or  large  shell  of  puff  paste,  divers 

styles. 
Zingara,  Gar.  w.  jul.  of  ch.,  ham,  mu.,  truf.,  mad.  sauce. 


SKEWERS  (Brochettes) 

The  Brochette  is  a  small  skewer  of  sliver  or  iron,  and 
is  employed  to  combine  small  fish,  small  pieces  of 
meat,  or  small  birds.     The  variety  is  infinite. 


Skewer  (Divers) 

The  article  indicates  the  name,  the  sauce,  or  the 
garnishing  which  accompanies  it. 

The  skewer  of  sweetbreads,  chicken's  liver,  lamb, 
reed  birds,  lobster,  oysters  rolled  in  butter  and  then 
bread  crumbs,  broiled;   fried,  breaded  in  English  style. 


SALPICONS 

The  S'alpicon  is  a  mixture  of  different  minced  meats, 
mushrooms,  truffles,  fish,  fruit  or  vegetables,  cut  in 
the  shape  of  dice,  seasoned  and  thickened  with  a 
delicate  sauce,  which  is  employed  in  different. culinary 
preparations,  alone,  or  with  different  garnishings. 

—  23  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Abbreviati'ons :    All.,  Allemande;    Ch.,  chicken;   fole- 

gr.,  foie-gras;    Mad.,  Madeira;    mu.,  mushrooms, 

sa.,     sauce;     sweetbr.,     sweetbread;     truf., 

truffles;  thi.,  thicken;  w.,  with. 

Crustaces    (Shellfish),   All   kinds    shellfish   cut   in   dice, 

w.  mushrooms,  truffles,  thicken  with  fish  sauce. 
D'ceufs,   Eggs,   hard,   cut   in    dice,    mushrooms,    truffles. 

thicken  cream  sauce. 
Financiere,   Chicken,   truffles,   cock's   comb  and  kidney, 

mushrooms,  sweetbr.  small  quenelle,  thi.  mad.  sauce. 
Fruits,  All  kinds   fruits   cut  in  dice,   thi.   pastry   cream 

or  syrup. 
Gibier  (Game),  Cut  in  dice,  truf.,  mu.,  thi.  mad.  sauce. 
Italienne,   Calf's   brain,   sweetbr.,  ham,   mushrooms,  thi. 

madeira  sauce,  with  tomato  sauce. 
Jambon  (Ham),  Cut  in  dice,  with  mushrooms,  thi.  cream 

sauce  or  madeira  sauce. 
Joinville,  Shrimps,  mushrooms,  truffles,  thi.  fish  sauce. 
Legumes,   Vegetables    cut   in   dice   or   fancy   shape,    thi. 

cream  sauce  or  mayonnaise. 
Milanaise,  Spaghetti  or  macaroni,  truffles,  mushrooms, 

tongue  cut  in  dice,  thi.  tomato  sauce. 
Moelie,  Beef  marrow     poached   cut  in  dice,     seasoned, 

rolled  with  meat  glace  and  fine  herbs. 
Montglas,  Foie-gr.,  truf.,  thi.  Mad.  sa.  (Also  see  Zingara) 
Nantua,  Crawfish,  mu.,  thi.  cream  sa.  or  crawfish  coulis. 

(See  Coulis.) 
Napolitaine,  Large  macaroni  cut  one  inch  thi.,  tomato 

sauce  with  cheese. 
Neptune,  Same  preparation  for  Crustaces,  thi.  fish  sa. 

or  coulis.    (See  Coulis.) 
Pates,  All  Italian  paste,  thicken  facultative. 
Poissons,  All  cooked  fish,  mu.,  truf.,  thi.   fish  sauce. 
Puree,  All  meat,  game,  chicken,  fish,  vegetables  cooked 

thi.  according  to  article. 
Regence,    Cock's    comb   and    kidney,    foie-gras,    truffles, 

mushrooms,  thi.  Mad.  sauce  or  Allemande  sauce. 
Reine   or   Ris  de  Veau,     Chicken,   mushrooms,   truffles, 

thi.  supreme  sauce  or  sweetbread. 

—  24  — 


CROQUETTES 


Royale,  Foie-gras,  mushrooms,  truffles,  sweetbread  in 
dice,  thi.  cream  reduce, 

St.   Hubert,  Game,  truf.,  mushrooms.,  thi.  w.  salmis  sa. 

Toulouse,  Foie-gras,  mushrooms,  truffles,  in  dice,  small 
chicken  quenelle,  thi.  allemande  sauce. 

Truffes,  (Truffles),  cooked  truffles  cut  in  dice,  thi. 
Mad.  sauce  or  meat  glace. 

Viandes  (Meat),  All  kinds  cooked  meats,  thi.  sauce  ac- 
cording to  article. 

Vierge,  Lamb  sweetbreads,  calf's  brains,  mushrooms  cut 
in  dice,  thi.  cream  reduce. 

Volaille  or  Chicken,     Fowl,  mushrooms,     truffles,     thi. 

^   allemande  sauce  or  cream  sauce. 

Zingara,  Ham,  tongue,  chicken,  mushrooms,  truffles, 
thi.  tomato  sauce. 

CROQUETTES 

(Cromesquis,  Russian  Croquettes) 

The  same  terms  are  applied  to  Croquettes  as  Sal- 
I)icons.  The  croquetie  is  one  mass  of  small  substances, 
cut  in  shape  of  small  cubes,  that  is  reduced  with  sauce 
Allemande,  bechamel,  espagnole,  according  to  the  style 
of  the  croquette.  They  are  breaded  in  English  style, 
in  the  shape  that  one  desires,  and  then  fried. 

Croquettes  are  made  in  all  different  styles  and  their 
names  are  determined  by  what  substances  they  are 
made  of. 

They  are  served  as  hors-d'oeuvre  and  sometimes  as 
small  entrees. 

(Breaded  English  style:     Beaten  eggs  rolled  in  fresh 

bread  crumbs.) 

The  cromesquis  is  a  small  croquette  in  rolled  cr  un^- 
leavened  bread,  or  in  caul,  dipped  in  batter  and  fried, 
or  pancake  v.athout  sugar,  breaded  in  English  style 
and   fried. 

(NOTE — For  the  names  of  different  sauces,  garnish- 
ings,  etc.,  read  heading  of  each  article.) 

Abbreviations:     the  same  as  for  Salpicons. 
—  25  — 


GANCEL'g     CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Americaine,  Fish  cake  w.  codfish  or  divers  fish,  thi.  w. 

mixed  potato  pulp,  cream,  raw  eggs  and  butter,  round 

shape  and  fried,  divers  sauces. 
Bohemienne,   Foie-gras,   truffles,   thi.   allemande   sauce; 

sa.   truffle,   white   or  brown. 
Bergere,   Lamb,   ham,   mushrooms,   truffles,     thi.   Espa- 

gnole  sauce,  madeira  sauce.   (See  Espagnole  sauce.) 
Chasseur,  Hunter  style,  game,  mushrooms,  truffles,  thi. 

salmis  sauce  or  coulis,  madeira  sauce. 
Cotelettes,  Chop  shape,  divers  salpicon,  garnishing  and 

sauce  optional. 
Crustaces,  All  shellfish  cut  in  dice,  thi.  oream  sauce. 
Dominicaine,  Oysters,  mushrooms,  thi.  bechamel  sauce 

with  lobster  butter,  white  wine  sauce. 
Exquises,    Chicken,   mushrooms,    artichokes,    thi.    allem- 
ande sauce,  puree  of  truffles  in  center,  sauce  optional. 
Farce,  All  forcemeat  moulded  in  chop  shape,  poached, 

breaded  English  style  with  fresh  bread  crumb,  fried 

in  butter,  divers  sauce. 
Fondantes,  Ch.  or  game  puree,  divers  sauce. 
Fro  mages,  Swiss  cheese  cut  in  dice,  thi.  bechamel  sauce. 
Fruits,  All  kinds  of  fruits  cut  in  dice  (See  fruit  salpicon) 

Vanilla  sauce  or  fruit  syrup,  according  to  the  fruits. 
Garnies,   Croquettes   w.  divers  vegetables.     Divers   sa. 
Gastronome,    Half   white    chicken    and    game,    foie-gras, 

truf.,  thi.  supreme  sa.  w.  chestnut  puree,  gourmets  sa. 
Gibiers    (All  Game)        Divers  garnishings     and   sauces. 

(See  Gibiers  Salpicon.) 
Hongroise      (Hungarian     style),     chicken,     calf's     foot, 

tongue,  thi.  allemande  sauce  or  cream  sa.  w.  paprika. 
Indienne  (Indian  style).  Lobster  and  rice,  thi.  bechamel 

with  curry,  lobster  sauce  with  curry. 
Jambon,  Ham  cut  in  dice,  truffles  and  mushrooms  op- 
tional, thi.  white  or  brown  sauce. 
Jean  Bart,  Lobster  filled  with  oysters  salpicon  in  center, 

cream  sauce,  sprinkling  with  coral. 
Legumes,   All   kinds   cooked   vegetables    (See  Legumes 

Salpicon.) 
Lucullus,  Foie  g.  truf,  mu.  cut  in  dice,  thi.  all.  or  Mad. 

sa.  Lucullus  sa. 

—  26  — 


FORCEMEATiS 


Marquise,  Half  puree  of  foie-g.  and  game  between  two 
layers  of  Duchess  potatoes.  (See  potatoes  Duchess) 
rich  demi-glace  sa. 

Nantaise,  Shrimps  and  artichoke,  thi.  Bechamel  sa., 
tomato  sa. 

Parmentier,  All  preparations  made  w.  potatoes  (See  po- 
tatoes. 

Poissons,  All  preparation  w.  fish,  sauce  divers. 

Pom.  de  Terre,  (See  Potatoes  Duchess).  Divers  style. 

Savigny,  Ham,  art.  moril  mu.  thi.  Bechamel  sas.  cream 
sa.  w.  Soubise. 

Sultane,  Ch.  Croquette,  stuffed  w.  foie-g.  in  center  and 
nistachio.    Cream  sa.  w.  pistachio  butter, 

Viandes,  (Meat),  beef,  veal,  lamb,  pork,  sweetbread,  etc. 
thi.  according  to  the  meat,  white  or  brown  sa. 

Volaille,  All  kinds  (fowl),  sa.  and  garnishing  according 
to  article. 

FORCEMEATS  (Farces) 

For  Timbales,  Mousselines  and 

Quenelles. 

All  forcemeats  should  be  pounded  and  strained 
through  a  fine  sieve  or  use  special  machine. 

The  seasoning  and  thickening  per  two  pounds  of 
forcemeat  should  be  %  ounce  of  spiced  salt  and  eggs 
as  required,  and  flavored  with  Madera  or  brandy.  Mount 
forcemeats  on  ice  that  they  do  not  turn,  always  test 
before  using. 

A  timbale  or  mousseline  should  be  appropriately  dec- 
orated, according  to  the  article  it  contains.  The  moulds 
should  be  well  buttered  and  cooled  before  filling  them 
with  forcemeat. 

The  Salpicon  or  other  preparation  should  be  well 
cooled  and  covered  with  forcemeat  on  top,  use  salpicon 
only  for  timbale. 

A  timbale  or  mousseline  should  be  poached  from  ten 
to  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Allow  to  cool 
one  minute,   then  unmould. 

—  27  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

One  general  recipe  for  all  forcemeat  which  can  be 
used  in  confectioning"  all  kinds  of  meat  and  fish.  Meat 
with  fat  and  nerves  taken  out  1  pound,  sweetbutter  V2 
pound,  4  yokes  of  eggs,  reduced  sauce  l^^  gills,  salted 
and  spiced.  Add  the  yokes  of  the  eggs  and  sweet  butter 
by  intervals.    Season  when  finished. 

Add  a  part  of  the  sauce  made  of  the  article  that  you 
employ  and  test  the  force.  Put  in  substance  desired 
and  then  strain  it  in  sieve.  One  can  replace  the  sweet 
butler,  by  pure  fresh  cream  if  necessary.  This  farce 
can  be  used  for  fish,  forcemeat  borders,  souffles  and 
quenelles,  if  desired  they  can  be  made  hard  or  soft  in 
adding  sauce,  essence  or  eggs. 

Abbreviations:     Add.,   Addition;     Ch.,    chicken,   ga., 
game;   sea.,  seasoning;   wh.,  white. 

Boeuf,  1  lb.  of  beef  filet,  3  whites  of  eggs,  thick  cream 
(See  Zephir  forcemeat). 

Chair  a  saucisse,  1  lb.  of  pork,  1  lb.  of  fat,  pork,  %  oz. 
of  salt,  14  ounce  of  pepper,  2  gill  cream  or  ice  water. 

Champignon,  Cooked  mushrooms,  mixed  w.  ch.  force- 
meat.   (See  Volaille  forcemeat). 

Crustaces,  All  kinds  of  shellfish,  same  as  homard. 

Foie  de  Veau,  Calf's  liver  1  lb.,  6  ounces  butter,  1  ounce 
flour,  1  ounce  fresh  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  1%  gill 
fresh    cream,    cooked    chopped    onions,    fine    herbs. 

Foie-gras,  Puree  de  foie-gras  cooked,  mixed  w.  ch.  force- 
meat.   (See   Volaille   forcemeat). 

Gibier,  (Game)  1  lb.  game,  4  white  eggs,  thick  cream. 
(For  mousseline  use  whipped  cream  instead), 

Godiveau,  2  lbs.  veal,  2I/2  lbs.  kidney  fat,  8  eggs,  salt 
and  pepper,  nutmeg,  IVz  lbs.  ice  for  moistening,  al- 
ways test  before  using.   (Old  fashioned  way). 

Gratin,  i/^  lb.  ch.  liver  %  lb.  calf  liver,  V2  lb.  fresh  pork, 
bits  of  truffles  and  mushrooms,  saute  w.  shallot, 
thi.    w.   yoke    of   6   eggs    and    Mad.   sauce   when    cold, 
pound   and   strain. 

Homard,  (Lobster),  raw.  lobster  meat  w.  coral  thick 
cream  and  lobster  coulis.  (See  coulis).  Add  wh.  eggs 
if  necessary  to  give  body. 

—  28  — 


FORCEMEATS 


Jambon,  (Ham)  1  lb.  raw  ham,  3  wh.  eggs,  add  little 
cli.  forcemeat  and  red.   (Cold,  see  mousseline). 

Langue  (Tongue),  1  lb.  smoked  beef  tongue,  3  wh.  eggs 
thick  cream,  ch.  forcemeat  and  red.  (Cold  see  mous- 
seline). 

Mousseline  and  Mousses,  A  light  preparation  for  in- 
valids, chicken,  game,  shellfish,  fish,  etc.  Cold,  mous- 
ses. 1  quart  of  divers  cooked  puree,  3  gill  good  ch. 
jelly,  4  gill  veloute  sauce.,  4  gill  whipped  cream,  mod- 
ify if  necessary  to  dilute  lukewarm.  Hot  mousse. 
(See  volaille,  gibier  forcemeat.) 


Decoiated  Force-meat  Timbales  or  Mousses 

Panade,  Bread  soaked  in  water  or  milk  used  for  stuffing 

w.   flour.    (See  Farinaceous). 
Pain,  Meat  breads  old  fashioned  way.   Hot  or  cold,  same 

composition,  using  for  mousseline,  little  hard. 
Pate,  Divers  style,   3  lbs.  of  the  ingredient,  12  ounces 

pork,  2  lbs.  of  fat  pork,  pounded  and  strained,  garnish 
w.    filet   and   truffles,    seasoning   Madeira. 
Poisson,  1  lb.  filet  of  raw  fish,  2  eggs,     thick     cream, 

seas. 


Decorated  Force-meat  Quenelles 

Pore  ou  Chair  a  Saucisse,  Pork  meat  for  sausage,  1  lb. 
,     lean  pork,   1   lb.   fat  pork,   seasoning. 


29  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY  ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Quenelles,  Divers  style.  4  ounce,  ch.  game  or  fish, 
1  white  egg,  thick  cream  made  w.  divers  fo-meat. 

Souffle,  1  lb.  cooked  puree  any  kind  that  one  desires. 
6  ounces  panade  or  cooked  rice  puree,  4  ounces  but- 
ter, 8  yolks  egg,  white  whipped,  3  gills  thick  cream. 
(Cold  see  Mousseline). 

Ris  de  Veau  Timbale,  Sweetbread.  (See  volaille.)  See 
Mousseline  hot  w.  wil.  w.  salpicon  in  center.  (Little 
hard.) 

Truffle,  Puree  of  truffles  add.   ch.  forcemeat. 

Veau,  2  lbs.  veal,  1  lb.  bread  panade,  i/^  lb.  butter,  5 
eggs,  8  yolks,  2  spoonsful  of  Bechamel  sauce. 

Volaille  or  Chicken,  2  lbs.  chicken  meat  (white  only) 
4  or  5  white  eggs,  1  quart  thick  cream.  For  mousse- 
line add  whipped   cream. 

Zephir,  Using  only  freshly  killed  meat,  chicken,  game, 
beef  or  veal  pounded  and  thick  cream  without  eggs. 


PASTES,   TIMBALES,   MOUSSELINES 

Abbreviations:  All.,  Allemande;  Art.,  Artichokes;  Ch., 
chicken;  dec,  decorated;  ess.,  essence;  fo.  meat,  force- 
meat; fil  w.,  filled  with;  fole-g.,  foie-gras;  gar.,  garnish; 
mu.,  mishrooms;  mad.,  madeira;  sal.,  salpicon;  sa., 
sauce;  truf.,  truffles;   w.,  with. 

Agnes   Sorel,  Paste   gar.   w.   ch.    truf.    sliced   of  foie-g 

mad.  sa. 
Alexandra,  Cooked  quail  in  paste  (boneless)   stuffed  w. 

foie-gras,  game,  ess.  baked  in  oven. 
Alsacienne,     Paste  gar.  w.   foie-g.   truf.  mu.     slices     of 

tongue  on  top,  mad.   sa. 
Ambassadrice,  Mould  dec.  w.  tongue  and  truf.  fil.  w.  ch. 

fo.  meat,  gar.  in  center  w.  foi-g.  mu.  sweetbread,  truf., 

noodles,  mad.  sa. 
Andalouse,  Mould  dec.  w.  red  sweet  pepper,  fil.  w.  ch. 

forcemeat,  gar.  in  center  w.   sal.  Mexican  sa.  w.  to- 
matoes. 
Arlequin,  Mould  dec.  w.  divers  colors,  fil.  w.  ch,  fo.  meat 

and  sal.   according  the  name,  arlequin   sa. 

—  30  — 


PASTES,   TIMBALES,   MOUS'SELINES 

Badoise,  Paste  gar.  w,  sweetbread,  ham,  noodle,  finan- 
ciere  sa. 

Beaumarchais,  Mould  dec.  w.  triif,  game  fo-meat,  sal.  of 
foi-g.  w.  mu.  mad.   sa. 

Benton,  Paste  gar.  w.  ch.  tongue,  mu.  truf,  all.  sa. 

Bentoux,  Paste  fil.  w.  cooked  macaroni  w.  cheese,  truf, 
ch.  sausage,  cock's  comb  and  kidney,  mad.  sa.  w.  to- 
matoes.   Baked  in  oven. 

Bourbon naise,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  chopped  tongue  fil.  w. 
ch.  fo.  meat,  center  fil.  w.  salp,  cock's  comb  and  kid- 
ney, mu.  truf.   supreme   sa. 

Bourgoin,  Paste  gar.  w.  ch.  mu.  truf.  foi-g.  quenelle  of 
crawfish,  supreme  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter. 

Bressoise,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  fried  bread  crumbs,  fil. 
w.  ch.  fo.  meat,  sal.,  reine  in  center,  truf.  sa. 

Calaisienne,  Paste  gar.  w.  shrimps,  mussels,  mu.  craw- 
fish tails,   normande  sa. 

Cambaceres,  Mould  surrounded  w.  short  bits  of  maca- 
roni, fil.  w.  truf.,  tongue,  ch.  fo.  meat,  a  round  layer 
w.  sliced  foi.  gr.  and  macaroni,  thickened  w.  supreme 
sa.  and  foi-g.  purees,  truf.  sa.  (See  Napolitaine). 

Cardinale,  Mould  dec.  w.  lobster  claws,  sprinkled  w. 
coral,  lobster  fo.  meat  or  crawfish,  salp.  oyster  and 
mu.  cardinale  sa. 

Celestine,  (Cold)  Mousse  dome  shape,  foi.  g.,  fo.  meat, 
center  fil.   ch.  puree  w.  jelly  dec. 

Champignon,  Mushrooms  dec.  mould,  mushrooms  fo. 
meat,  cream  sa.  w.  sliced  mushrooms.  See  Champi- 
gnon fo.  meat. 

Charvin,  Cold.  Paste  fil.  w.  foi-g.  pate  and  half  cooked 
game,  pate  fil.  w.  jelly,  covered  w.  round  sliced 
tongue,  white  of  egg  and  spot  pf  truf. 

Chartreuse,  Dec.  mould  w.  fancy  vegetables,  filled 
divers  style,  gar.  and  sauce  designates  the  name. 

Chevaliere,  Paste,  gar.  w.  foi-g.  mu.  truf.,  cock's  comb 
and  kidney  laid   on   top,   mad.   sa. 

Chevreuse,  Tartelette  mould.  Paste,  gar.  salp.  Toulouse 
sliced  foi.  g.  on  top  and  covered  w.  puff  paste.  Baked 
in   oven. 

—  31  — 


G  A  N  C  E  L '  S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Comtesse,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  pistachio  and  truf.  fil.  w. 

ch.  and  mushrooms,  fo.  meat,  center  fil.  w.  sal.  of  mu. 

w.  cream,  supreme  sa. 
Conde,   Paste    gar.    w.     sliced    sweetbread,    mu.    truf., 

mad.  sa. 
Couronne  or  Turban,  Mould  crown   shape  sprinkled  or 

dec.    fil.    w.    divers    mousseline   fo.    meat   appropriate 

sauce  and  garnishing. 


Mould  for  Turban 


Courville,  Mould  w.  round  of  truf.  in  bottom,  sprinkled 

w.  pistachio  fil.w.  mousse  of  ch.  fo.  meat  Colbert  sa. 
Cussy,  Paste,  gar.     w.   sliced  foi.   g.  truf.     mu.   tongue, 

olives  and  cocks  kidney,  mad.  sa. 
Dessoiiers,  Mould  sprinkled     w.  truf.,  fish     fo.-meat,  w. 

crawfish  butter,  sal.  of  lobster  or  crawfish,  nantua  sa. 
Diane,  Dec.  mould  w,  truf.,  fil.  w.  game,  fo.  meat,  game 

sal.  Diana  sa. 
Dominicaine,  Dec.  mould  w.  star  made  of  sweet  pepper, 

fil.  fish,  fo.  meat,  fish  sal.  lobster  sauce. 
D'Orsay,  Paste,  fil.  w.  ch.  mu.  art.  truf.,  Hongroise  sa. 
Duchesse,   Dec.   bottom  w.   ring  of  truf.,   pistachio   and 

tongue,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo  meat,  center  sal.  ch.  foie-g.,  truf., 

art.   olives  madeira  sauce. 
Dumas,  Dec.  mould  w.   truf  and  tongue,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.- 
meat,  center  w.  duxelles  w.  truf.,  hot  ravigote  sauce. 
Dumonteil,   Bun   paste,   empty,   sliced  lobster   and  truf., 

thickened  Newburg  sauce. 
Ecarlate,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  chopped  tongue,     fil.     w. 

ch.  fo-meat,  ch.  liver  sal.  tomato  sauce.  ^ 

Ecossaise,  Mould  surrounded  w.  pancake,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo. 

meat,  ch.  sal.  Ecossaise  sa. 

—  32  — 


PASTES,   TIMBALES,   MOUS'SELINES 

Foie-gras,    (Hot   and  cold)    Dec.   mould  w.   truf.   fil.  foi. 

g.  mousseline  fo.  meat,  when  hot,  w.  supreme  sa.  cold 

w.  jelly. 
Gauioise,   Paste   gar.   w.   cock's     comb   and   kidney   mu. 

supreme  sa.  w.  ham  puree. 
Gourmet,  Dec.  mould  w.  tongue  and  truf.,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo. 

meat,  center  foi.  g.  and  truf  sal.,  gourmet  sauce. 
Gramont,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  truf.   and  tongue,   fil.  w. 

ch.  fo.  meat,  chestnuts  and  ch.  liver  sal,  Colbert  sa. 
Grimaldi,  Paste,  gar.  filet  of  sole,  macaroni,  truf.,  shell- 
fish coulis  sauce. 
Imperatrice,  Cold  dec.  crown  mould  w.  truf.,  fil.  of  ch. 

mousse  and  fo.  g.  w.  jelly. 
Imperial,  Dec.  crown  mould  w.  truf.  and  tongue,  fil.  w. 

ch.  fo.     meat,     sal.  of     julienne,     truf.,     mu.  tongue, 

Lucullus  sauce. 
Irving,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.   fil.  w.  game  fo.  meat,  sal, 

of  game,  champagne  sauce. 
Laffitte,   Crust  made   of  cornmeal  or  poulenta   gar.   w. 

foi.  g.  financiere  sauce. 
Lagardere,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  and  tongue,  fil.   w.   ch. 

fo.  meat,  sal.  mu,  and  beef  pa.lates,  round  croquette 

of  chestnut  laid  on  top,  supreme  sauce. 
La  Valliere,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.,  fli.  w.  game  fo.  meat, 

sal.  of  game,  foi.  g.  and  truf.,  mad  sa, 
Lombarde,  Paste  gar.  w.  sweetbread,  truf.  and  chestnuts, 

Lombarde  sauce, 
Lucullus,  Paste  gar.  w.  foi.  g.  and  truf.,  champagne  sa. 

baken  in  oven.     Cold  w.  jelly. 
Marechale,  Mould  w.  ring  of  truf.  at  bottom,  fil.  w.  ch. 

fo.  meat,  and  chopped  tongue,  center  fil.  w.  ch.  puree 

and  soubise,  truf.  sauce. 
Marguerite,   Dec.    mould,    w.    daisies,    centre     made     of 

tongue,  leaves  made  w.  ch.  sprinkled  w.  fried  bread 

crumbs,  fil,  w,  ch.  and  mushrooms  mousse  fo,  meat, 

supreme-  sa, 
Marie  Louise,  Cold  mousse  of  ch.  puree,  dec,  truf.  jelly. 
Marie  Stuart,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  pistachio,  tongue  and 

truf.  fil.  w.  ch.  fo-meat,     only     for     large     quenelles, 

Colbert  sauce. 

—  33  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Marly,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.,  game.    Fo.  meat,  game  sal. 

tomato  sa.  w.  game  essence. 
Medicis,  Savarin  paste,  empty,  gar.  w.  foi-g.  truf.,  tongue, 

all.  sa.  v/.  tomatoes. 
Metternich,   Paste   gar.   w.    filet   of  game,   foi.   g.,   truf., 

coulis  of  game  w.  fine  champagne  sa. 
Milanaise,   Paste  filled   w.   fine   spaghetti,   small  finan- 

ciere  garnishing  w.  tomato  sauce. 
Mirabeau,  Paste  gar.  w.  sliced  game,  truf.,  mu.  salmis  sa. 
Montana,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.  meat,  sal- 

picon  of  ch.  liver,  truf.  and  duxelles,  truf.  sa. 
Montargis,  Dec.  mould,  alternated  w.  truf.  and  tongue, 

fil.  w.  ch.  fo.-meat,  center  fil.  mu.  puree,  tongue  and 

truf.  cut  in  dice,  supreme  sauce. 
Montesquieu,  Mould  sprinkled  truf.  and  hard  chopped, 

white   egg,   fil.   ch.    fo.-meat,   center   foi.-g.   and   truf., 

mad.  sa.  w.  truf.  essence. 
Montgomery,    Dec.  mould     w.  tongue  and     truf.  fil.  w. 

game,  fo.-meat,   sal.   of  game,  truf.,  mu.   supreme  sa. 

with  game  essence. 
Montpensier,  Dec.  mould  truf.  and  tongue,  fil.  w.  sweet- 
bread, fo.-meat,  sal.  of  sweetbread  mu.  truf.  supreme 

sauce. 
Mont  St.  Jean,  Dec.  mould  w.  mosaic,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.-meat, 

Volaille  sal.  truf.  sauce. 
Morlot,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  and  tongue,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.- 
meat,  sal.  ch.  truf.,  tongue,  foyot  sa. 
Mosaique,  Dec.  mould  mosaic,  fil.  w.  game  fo.-meat  sal 

foi-g.  and  truf.  Colbert  sauce. 
Mousseijnes  and   Mousse,     Divers  dec.     mould,     fil.  w 

mousse  fo.  meat,  ch.  fish,  game,  sweetbread,  etc.,  sa 

and  garnishing  according  to  article. 
Namur,  (Cold).  Crust  paste  filled  w.  cooked  game  mous 

seline,  slice  of  truf.  and  jelly  on  top. 
Napolitaine,  Mould  surrounded  w.  short  bits  of  macaroni 

fil.  w.  tongue  and  truf.  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.-meat,  center  gar 

w.  sal.  according  to  article.     Napolitaine  sauce. 
National,  Hot  or  cold.  Dec.  mould  w.  colors  according 

to  nation,  the  sauce  same. 

—  34  — 


PASTES,   TIMBALES,   MOUS'SELINES 

Nectarine,    Cold     round     mousse     of     foi.-g.     cover   w. 

chaud-froid   sauce.   Dec.   w.   truf.   and   pistachio,   jelly 

around. 
Nelson,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  truf.  and  ham,  fil.  w.  ch.  fo.- 

meat,   Soubise  puree  in  center;    supreme  sauce  with 

Soubise. 
Nesselrode,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.,  fil.  game  fo.-meat,  sal. 

of  game  w.  chestnuts,  mad.  sa.  w.  game  essence  and 

chestnuts  puree. 
Orloff,   Mould   surrounded  w.  pancake,   fil.   ch.  fo.-meat 

sal.  ch.  and  mu.  layer  cooked  semoulina  between  sal. 

Bechamel  sa.  w.  mu.  essence. 
Oriental,  Bun  paste,  empty,  when  cooked  and  cold,  serve 

for  sweet  dish,  entree,  etc.  —  Fruit  sal.  compote,  etc. 

dec.  w.  angelica,  almonds  or  candy,  fruit. 
Paiva,  Mould  surrounded  w.   pancake,  fil.  w.  ch.  puree 

and  tongue  cut  in  dice,  albufera  sauce. 
Palermitaine,  Mould  surrounded  w.  macaroni  in   spiral 

fil.  w.   ch.   fo.-meat,  volaille,   sal.   Palermitaine  sa. 
Parfait  (Cold).   Mousse  of  foi.-g.  soft,  bordered  w.  whip- 
ped cream  w.  foi.-g.  around. 
Parisienne,   Dec.    mould    w.    truf.   fil.    ch.    fo.-meat,    sal. 

Toulouse.     Parisienne  sauce. 
Perigourdine,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  fil.  ch.  force-meat,  sal. 

of  truf.  madera  sauce  w.  truffles. 
Portugaise,  Oval  mould  sprinkled  truf.  and  cooked  rice, 

empty,  gar.  ch.  sal.  w.  tomatoes  and  madeira  sauce. 
Presidente,  Paste  gar.  w.   sole,  oysters,  mu.  normande 

sa.  w.  crawfish  butter. 
Princesse,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  asp.  tips,  supreme  sa.  w. 

truf.  or  dec,  on  asp.  tips  croquette. 
Regence,  Cooked  in  mould  w.  truf.,  fil.   ch.  force-meat, 

sal.  with  cock's     comb  and     kidney,     mu.  truf.     sal. 

regence  sauce. 
Regine,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  and  claws  of  lobsters  fil.  w. 

fish  fo.-meat  and  mushroom  puree,  sal.  of  fish,  Nantua 

sa. 
Rejane,   Paste  gar.  w.  moril,  asparagus   tips   and  truf., 

madeira  sauce. 

—  35  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Renaissance,  Dec.  mould  w.  fancy  vegetables,  fil.  w.  ch. 

forcemeat,  sal.  of  ch.  mu.  truf.,  artichokes,  tomatoes 

in  dice,  chateau  sa. 
Reyniere,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.,  fil.  w.  game,  forcemeat, 

sal.  w.  foie-gras,  truf,  ch.  truf.  sa. 
Ristori,  Dec.   mould  w.   truf.   fil.  w.  ch.   forcemeat,   sal. 

truf.,  art.  and  mu.  supreme  sa.  w.  dice  of  truf. 
Rosine,  Mould    rose     shape,     fil.     w.     salmon  forcemeat 

mousseline,  shrimp  sauce. 
Rossini,  Mould  savarin  shape  dec.  truf.,  fil.  \v.  shrimps 

forcemeat  mousseline,  shrimp  sauce. 
Rothschild,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  fil.  ch.  forcemeat,  slice 

of  foie-gras  in  center,   supreme     sauce     w.     chestnut 

puree. 
Royale,  Dec.  mould  w.  crown  of  truf.,  fil.  w.  ch.  force- 
meat, sal.  of  volaille,  supreme  sauce  with  truffles. 
Sartine,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  fil.  game  forcemeat,  sal.  of 

game,  w.  truf.,  mad.  sa.  w.  game  essence. 
Savarin,  All  moulds  in  small  savarin  shape  or  timbal  w. 

savarin  paste.     Divers  garnishing  and  sauce,  accord- 
ing to  article. 
Soubise,  Dec.  mould  w.  truf.  fil.  chicken,  forcemeat,  sal. 

of  ch.  w,  soubise  puree,  supreme  sauce  w.  soubise. 
Soyer,  Paste  gar.  w.  game  quenelle,  mu.  truf.,  Lucullus 

sauce. 
Strasbourgeoise,  Bun  paste   emptied,     gar.  w.  foie-gras 

and  truf.,  Madeira  sauce. 
Talleyrand,  Mould  sprinkled  w.  chopped  ch.  tongue  and 

truf.,   fil.   ch.  forcemeat,   sal.   ch.  macaroni,   foie-gras, 

truffles,   madeira  sauce,   with  truffle  essence. 
Timbaies,  All  timbales,  garnishing  and  sa.  according  to 

article. 
Tosca,  (See  Grimaldi).  With  Hot  Venitienne  sauce. 
Tzarine,  Paste  fil.  w.  foie-gras  and  boneless  stuffed  quail 

with  truf..  essence  of  game,  baked  in  oven  after  cold 

fil.  w.  madeira  jelly. 
Venitienne,    Oval   mould    sprinkled   w.    pistachio   fil.    w. 

mousse  ch.  force-meat,  venitienne  sauce. 
Verdi,   Crust  made  of  cornmeal  emptied   gar.   w.   lamb, 

sweetbread,    truf.,    macaroni,   mad.    sa.,   w.   tomatoes. 

—  36  — 


EGGS 

Villaret,  Dec.  bottom  of  mould  w.  pistachio,  fil.  w.  game 
fo.-meat  mousse,  madeira  sauce  with  olive  rings. 

Whitebait,  Mould  surrounded  w.  boneless  whitebait,  fil. 
w.  fish  fo-meat  mouses,  Normande  sa.  w.  oyster  crabs. 

Zephirine,  Dec.  mould  or  sprinkled.  See  Zephirine  force 
meat,  divers  gar.  and  sauce. 

EGGS  (Oeufs) 

Eggs  are  an  excellent  aliment  for  children,  also  for 
sick  and  feeble  people.  They,  however,  must  be  abso- 
lutely fresh.  They  lose  all  of  their  nourishment  if  they 
are   hard   boiled. 

Eggs  sv/allowed  raw,  or  eaten  soft  boiled  are  the 
best.  Also  scrambled,  fried,  poached  and  in  very  soft 
omelet.  (Mollet  boiled  5  minutes).  Eggs  most  used 
for  culinary  purposes  are  those  of  the  domestic  chicken, 
duck  and  ostrich.  The  eggs  of  fish  are  extracted  before 
the  time  of  hatching. 

The  greatest  delicacy  in  fish  eggs  are  those  of  the 
sturgeon  which  are  used  for  fresh  and  salted  caviar. 
The  eggs  of  shad  and  herring  are  eaten  cooked.  The 
eggs  of  reptiles  are  rarely  used  in  alimentation,  only 
turtle  and  terrapin,  and  they  are  eaten  raw  or  cooked, 
soft  boiled  or  in  omelet  highly  spiced. 

There  are  more  than  500  ways  of  preparing  eggs. 
Most  of  the  preparations  can  be  changed  with  the  same 
garnishings  as  the  cook  desires,  or  to  suit  the  person's 
taste. 

A  chicken  egg  weighs  two  ounces.  You  can  tell  a 
fresh  egg  when  it  is  full  and  transparent  in  the  light. 
A  simple  way  of  knowing  when  an  egg  is  fresh  is  to 
put  it  in  a  bowl  of  water  and  an  8th  part  of  kitchen 
salt.  If  the  egg  goes  to  the  bottom,  it  is  fresh;  if  it 
stays  in  the  middle  of  the  water  it  is  two  or  three  days 
old;  but  if  it  floats  it  is  five  days  old.  Different  styles 
of  eggs  bearing  the  same  name  are  not  repeated,  but 
may  be  garnished  the  same,  wether  they  be  poached, 
scrambled  or  omelet. 

For  moulded   eggs,   the   moulds    should   be   well   but- 

—  37  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

tered,  decorated,  sprinkled  and  lined.  When  eggs  are 
without  croustade  (crust),  they  may  be  served  on  can- 
ape, garnished  according  to  the  article.  Sauces  should 
all  he  thin. 

Scrambled  eggs  are  garnished  with  lozenges  of  fried 
bread  or  puff  paste. 

Time  for  cooking  moulded  eggs  in  hot  water  (bain 
marie)  is  ten  to  twelve  minutes.  Eggs  for  stuffing 
must  be  hard  boiled,  then  cut  in  half  oblong  shape  and 
stuffed.  A  whole  egg  can  be  emptied  with  a  column 
and  then  stuffed  according  to  the  order  of  the  person. 
This  last  method  is  the  best  for  fried  or  breaded  eggs 
or  chnud-froid  sauce  and  decorated. 

Abbreviations:  Art.  artichokes;  asp.  asparagus; 
can.,  capane;  chicen;  cru.,  crust;  cro.,  croquette; 
dec,  decorated;  fo.  me.,  force  meat;  fi.  her.,  fine 
herbs;  fil.,  filled;  foi-g.,  foie-gras;  gar.,  garnishing 
or  garniture;  mad.,  madeira;  mu.,  mushrooms;  om., 
omelet;  pc,  poached;  pot.,  potatoes;  pu.,  puree; 
sal.,  salpicon;  sa.,  sauce;  sera.,  scrambled;  shir., 
shirred;  stuf.,  stuffed;  tom.,  tomatoes;  truf.,  truf- 
fles;  w.,  with. 

Note:  Use  terms  browned  in  oven  for  the  French 
term  glace  or  gratin.  Specially  for  poached  or  soft  eggs 
as  quick  as  possible. 

Abyssinienne,  Po.  on  cro.  of  sweet  pot.,  white  sa.  w. 

puree  of  chestnuts  and  truf.  cut  in  dice. 
Agnes   Sorel,    Om.   gar.   w.   ch.   puree   and   mu.   ring   of 

tongue  on  top,  madeira  sauce  with  tomatoes. 
Alenxandra,    (Cold)    Po.   chaud-froid   sa.   dec.   on   caviar 

canape. 
Alexis,  Shir.  gar.  of  mussel  poulette  sa.  w.  chives. 
Algerienne,  Om.  stuffed  w.  egg  plant,  cucumbers,  tom. 

cut  in  dice  and  saute,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Allemande,    Flat  om.  w.  salt  pork  and  pot.  or  germart 

pancake.  (See  Farinaceous). 
Alsacienne,  Po.  on  choucroute.  (Pickled  cabbage  in  Jul. 

See  cabbage.)     With  puree  of  foi-gras,  mad.  sauce. 

—  38  — 


EGGS 

Ambroise,  Half  hard  stuff  w.  yolk  and  duxelles,  covered 

mornay  sauce  browned  in  oven. 
Andalouse,  (Cold)   Po.  covered  w.  chaud-froid  sauce,  w. 

torn.  dec.  w.  red  peppers,  on  half  torn,   ring  of  raw 

onion  around,   chopped  jelly,   or  fried  onions  around 

tomato  sauce. 
Antiboise,   (Cold).  Po.  on  stuf.  torn,  filled  w.  tunny  fish 

puree,  gar.  w.  jelly  around. 
Andre,  Po.  on  fried  torn,  cepes,  (wild  mu.)  saute  bo-rde- 

laise  sauce. 
Anglaise,  Po.  on  can.  covered  k.  v/elsh  rarebit  browned. 
Anna   Held,  Hard,  sliced  on   branch  spinach  w.  butter, 

covered  mornay  sauce  browned. 
Anton ine,  Shir.  w.  fried  salt  pork,  capers,  black  butter, 

sprinkled  fine  herbs. 
Archibald,  Po.  on  can.  gar.  around,  w.  bouquet  of  art. 

green  and  sweet  peppers  mu.  Colbert  sauce  with  torn. 

truf.  art.  cut  in  dice. 
Archiduc,    Po.    on   can.    gar.    around   w.    ch.    livers    and 

truf.  cut  in  dice.    Paprika  sauce. 
Argenteull,  All  eggs  gar.  w.  asparagus  tips,  thicken  w. 

cream  sauce  w.  asparagus  butter. 
Argentine,  Om.  stuf.  w.  egg-plant  saute,  argentine  sa. 
Arlequin,   Po.   on   canape   arlequin    sa.   or   po.    breaded 

English  style  and  fried,  on  ch.  puree,  gourmet  sauce. 
Aromatique,  Fried  in  oil,  on  can.  gar.  w.  mint  leaves, 

tomato  sauce  with   chopped  mint. 
Artichauts,  Artichoke,   all  eggs,  gar.   w.   art.   bottom. 
Astoria,  Po.  on  toasted  muffin,  filled  w.  ch.  puree,  cov- 
ered  maximilien    sauce. 
Aurore,  Half  hard  stuffed  w.  yolks  and  fi.  her.  covered 

cream  sau.  sprinkled  chopped  yolks,  browned  in  oven, 

aurora  sauce  around. 
Bacon,  Fried   gar.   w.   broiled   or    fried    bacon,   country 

style,  cooked  the  same  time,  sera,  bacon  cut  in  dice  or 

sliced. 
Baltique,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  caviar,  horse  radish  sauce. 
Balzac,   Sera.   w.   truf.,   tongue   in   dice,   lozenges   bread 

stuf.   w.  foie-gras,  madeira  sa.  w.  tomat.  around. 
Bar-le-Duc,    Po.   on   art.    bottom,    colbert   sauce,    or   om. 

filled  with  Bar-le-Duc  Jelly. 

—  39  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Basque,  Cooked  w.  sweet  peppers,  on  risotto,  mad.  sa. 
Bateliere,   Sera,   in   cru,   boat   shape   gar.   w.   shell   fish, 

mariniere  sauce. 
Beauceron,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  onion  puree,  supreme  sa. 
Bedford,  In  cocotte,  w.  ch.  sal.   Perigueux  sauce. 
Belleclaire,   In   cocotte    fil.     mushroom    puree     covered 

cream  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  browned  in  oven. 
Belle    Helene,   Po.   on   asp.    cro.    covered   cream   sa.   w. 

asp.  butter. 
Belle-Vue,  Cold.  All  cold  eggs  fancy  and  decorated  egg 

in  jelly  or  chaud-froid  sauce. 
Benedict,  Fo.  on  muffin  toasted  w.  sliced  ham,  covered 

Hollandaise  sauce,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Benedictine,  Not  to  be  confused  w,  Benedict.     Po.     on 

puree  of  salt  codfish,  cream  sauce  with  truffles. 
Bennett,-  Hard,  half  stuf.  w.  chopped  fried  onions,  mu. 
yolks  and  fi.  herbs,  covered  cream  sa.  sprinkled  yolks. 

Browned  in  oven. 
Eenoiton,  Hard,  half,  stuf.  same  Bennett.    Red  wine  sa. 

w.  chopped  anchovies  and  fi.  herbs,  browned  in  oven. 
Beranger,   Om.   fil.  w.   chopped   salt  pork  and  pounded 

torn,    saute;    torn.   sa.    around. 
Berceau,   Cooked  in  potato,   shaped  like  a  crib  fil.   ch. 

salpicon,  covered  aurore  sauce  browned  in  oven. 
Bercy,  Shir.  w.  pork  sausage,  tom.  sa.  around. 
Berger,  Po.  on  lamb  hash,  w.  field  mu.  in  border.    Duch- 
ess Bergere,   pot.   Mournay   sauce,  browned   in   oven. 

Bergere    cooked    in   cocotte   w.    field   mu.    and    sweet 

cream. 
Berichonne,  Cooked  in  crust,  made  w.  bread  and  fried 

in  butter,  w.  sweet  cream  and  chives. 
Berlioz,  Po.  on  game  puree  gar.  w.  mu.  heads  around, 

mad.   sa.   w.   game  essence. 
Bernadotte,  Cooked  in  mould  dome  shape,  ring  of  truf. 

in  bottom,  sprinkled  w.  parsley,  on  can.  of  anchovies 

w.  filet  of  anchovies  around. 
Beurre    Noir,    Shir,    or   fried   in   pan.    covered   w.    black 

butter  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Capers  and  fi.  herbs, 

facultative. 
Beaver,  Om.  fil.  w.  smothered  onions,  ham,  celery,  w. 

madeira  sauce. 

—  40  — 


EGGS 

Bertin,   Om.   fil.   w.   egg  plant  and   torn,   saute   Colbert 

sauce  around. 
Biarritz,  Mollet   (soft  5  minutes)   cold  peeled  on  square 

can.   fil.   anchovies,   butter,   boneless   sardine   around, 

one  stuf.  olive  each  corner. 
Blenvenue,  Shir,  dishes  fil.  w.  duxelles  w.  fin.  herbs  in 

bottom,  sprinkled  parmesan  cheese,  browned  quickly. 
Bignon,  Po.  on  border  ch.  fo.  meat,  covered  Hollandaise 

sauce  with  chopped  tarragon. 
Bizantine,  Po.  on  flat  ch.  croquette,  gar.  around  w.  cele- 
ry cut  in  Jul.  stuf.  olives  w.  anchovies,  bordelaise  sa. 

around  and  bearnalse  sauce  on  top  the  eggs. 
Blanchard,     Po.  on    toasted  muffins     w.     round     sliced 

tongue,  Colbert  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 
Bohemienne,  Po.  on  slice  of  foi.  g.  covered  supreme  sa. 

w.  foi-g.  puree  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Boieldieu,  Po.  on  crust  fil.  w.  foi-g.  ch.  truf.  sal.  mad.  sa. 
Boitelle,   Po.   on   rice   crust   fil.   w.   mu.    puree   covered 

supreme  sa.  or  cooked  in  lined  mould  w.  mu.  puree, 

supreme  sa.  w.  mu.  essence  around. 
Bombay,  Po.  on  risotto  w.  curry,  curry  sa.  w.  tom. 
Bonne-femme,  Hard  sliced  in  cream  sa.  gar,  w.   sliced 

blood  pudding  sausage  on  top. 
Bonvalet,    Om.   fil.   w.   tom.    sweet   peppers,    anchovies, 

saute  f.  herbs,  anchovie  sa.  around. 
Boquet,  Fried   in   pan,   on   smothered   onions   thickened 

mad.  sa.  mixed  w.  nut  sausage,  egg  on  top. 
Bordelaise,  Po.  fried  in  oil  or  pan.  gar.  w.  cepes   (wild 

mu.)  saute  bordelaise  sauce,  w,  marrow, 
Boucher    (des),   Om,   fil.   w,   spinal   marrow,   lamb's   fry 

saute,  thickened  madeira  sauce    (Butcher  style). 
Bouchere,  Sera.  w.  lamb  sweetbread  and  brain  saute  fi. 

her.   (Butcher's  wife  style). 
Boulangere,  Po.  on  empty  French  rolls,  fil.   w.  ch.  sal. 

covered  mornay  sa.  browned  in  oven.   (Baker  style). 
Bouillis  (Boiled  eggs).  Including  boiled  2  minutes  to  6, 

hard  12  minutes.     Soft  5  minutes  (mollet).     Poached, 

see  "Poches." 
Boulonnaise,   Om,  fil.  w.  mackerel  milt  saute,  -fin,  her. 

sauce  around. 

—  41  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bourguignonne,  Po.  w.  wine  on  can.  gar.  w.  mu.  salt 
pork,  small  onions,  thickened  w.  bourguignonne  sauce. 
Braconnier,  Om.  w.  salt  pork,  moril  and  cepes(  wild  mu. 

om.  made  flat. 
Brebant,  Po.  on  game  puree  w.  foi-g.  truf.  sauce. 
Bresilienne,    Sera,   blood   pudding   sausage,   bread   crust 

around. 
Brestoise,  Hard  stuf.  w.  scallops  lobster  sauce. 
Bretonne,  Hard,  sliced  w.  onions,  tom.  mu.  covered  torn. 

sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Brillat-Savarin,  Om.  fil.  w.  game  sal.  salmis  sa.  w.  truf. 

around. 
Brouilles,  All  scrambled  eggs,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to 

the    name.    Eggs    beaten,    seasoned,    cook    slowly      or 

country  style,  broken  in  pan,  cooked,  pounded. 
Bruxelloise,  Om.  fil.  w.  endives  in  cream,  cream  sauce 

around. 
Cafe-Anglais,  In  Cocotte  surrounded  w.  salmon  fo.  meat, 

covered  w.  lobster  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Carolly,   Mollet    (soft)    in   crust,   gar.   ch.   liver   w.   truf, 

tomato  sa. 
Calabrais,  Hard,  stuf.  w.  sal.  anchovies,  red  and  green 

peppers,  breaded  English  style,  fried,  on  capane,  Bor- 

delaise  sauce  around. 
Canadienne,  Cooked  in  emptied  tom.  filled  w.  cream  sa. 

and  chives,  covered  same  sa.  baked  in  oven,  10  min. 
Canelons,   Thin   pastry  roll,   stuf.   w.   sera,   egg  or  eggs 

salpicon. 
Capeline,  Po.  on  mu.  puree,  cap  of  red  pepper  on  top, 

tom.   sa.  around. 
Cardinal,  Po.  on  round  flat  lobster  cro.  cardinal  sauce. 
Capucine,   (Cold)   Po.  covered  chaud-froid  sauce  cap.  of 

sweet  pepper  on  top,  on  fish  salad,  jelly. 
Careme,    (Cold)    Fried   in   pan  round   shape  on   salmon 

salad,   yolk   surrounded   w.    caviar   and   ring   of   truf., 

jelly  around. 
Carignan,  Cooked  in   dec.   mould  surrounded  w.   ch.   fo. 

meat.    Colbert  sauce  around. 
Carnegie,    Cooked   in   cocotte   fil.   w.    ch.    sal.   w.    sweet 

pepper,  tomato  sauce  when  cooked  tom.  sa.  around. 

—  42  — 


EGGS 

Carnot,  Po.  on  ch.  puree  in  art.  bottom,  cock's  kidneys, 

around.  Colbert  sauce. 
Carol ly,    Mollet    (soft)    on    noodles   w.   butter,    covered 

Mornay  sa.  browned,  torn,  sauce  around. 
Casimir  Perier,  Cooked  in  mould  dec.  green  and  sweet 

pepper  on  ch.  pu.  mad.  sa. 
Castelnaudary,   Fried   in   oil   on   sliced   ham   and   green 

peppers,  torn.   sa.  around. 
Cavour,  Po.  on  bottom,  arti.  covered  w.  parmesan  cheese 

souffle,  browned,  supreme  sauce. 
Cecilia,  Hard,  stuf.  w.  mu.  sal.  put  in  large  mu.  covered 

mornay   sa.   browned, 
Celestine,   3   small   different  om.   w.   sugar   fil.   w.  jam, 

Vv^hipped  cream  around,  dec.  w.  lady  fingers  and  ma- 

carons. 
Champignons,  Mushrooms,  all  eggs  gar.  w.  mu.  and  sa. 
Chanoinesse,  Cooked  in  cocotte  fil.  w.  crawfish  sal.  and 

truf.  supreme  sa.  around  after  cooked. 
Chantilly,  Po.  on  fresh  green  peas  pu.  w.  cream  chan- 

tilly  sauce  around. 
Chanzy,   Shr.   on  sliced  art.   bottom   saute,  baked,  truf. 

sa.  around. 
Charcutiere,  Om.  fil.  w.  rillons  (large  rillettes)  and  chi- 

polata  sausage.    Charcutiere  sauce. 
Chartres,  Po.  on  can.  star  w.  taragon  on  top.    Colbert 

sa.  w.  taragon  or  (cold)  in  dec.  mould  w.  taragon  fil. 

w.  taragon  jelly. 
Chatelaine,  Po.  on  chestnuts  puree,  sa.  supreme,  w.  sou- 

bise   sa.   around   or   om.   w.   chestnuts,   soubise   sauce 

around. 
Chatillon,  Sera.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  fi.  herbs  gar.  w,  crust 

of  puff  paste  around. 
Chaud-froid,  All  cold  eggs  covered  chaud-froid  sa.  dec. 

and   covered   w,   jelly,  the  garnishing   designates   the 

name. 
Chlffonade,   Om.  w.   chopped  fin.  herbs   w.   sorrel    (see 

chiff.  soup). 
Chi  may,  Plard,  half  stuf.   w.  yolk  mu.   pu.   and  fi.   her. 

covered  mornay  sa.   browned. 
Chipolata,  All  eggs  w.  chipolata  or  nut  sausages. 
Chivry,  Po.  on  crust  fil.  w.  green  vegetable  pu.  chivry  sa. 

—  43  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Choisy,  Om.  fil.  w.  shredded  braised  lettuce  thickened 

w.    cream.     Cream   sa.    around. 
Christiana,  Lapwing  eggs,  hard,  served  in  nest,  made  w. 

Duchess   pot.   coloi^ed   in   oven,   fil.    w.   fci-g.   mad.   sa. 

w.  truf. 
Christmas,    Po.    on    chestnuts    cro.    flat,    covered   w.    su- 
preme  sauce,   chopped    truf.   on   top. 
Clamart,  All.  eggs  served  w.  green  peas  clamart. 
Cocotte,  Small  earthen  pan.  cooked  eggs  only  w.  thick 

sweet   cream,   gar.   and    sa.    designate   the   name. 
Colbert,    Cooked    in     mould     sprinkled     w.    fried    bread 

crumbs,  unmould  on  can.  Colbert  sa. 
Colinette,  Cooked  in  dec.  mould,  ch.  fo.  meat  around,  on 
can  w.   ch.   puree,   supreme   sa.   w.   truf.  or    (cold)    po. 

on  dec.  oval  mould  fil.  w.  jelly  on  Rachel  salad  border 

w.  truf  and  potatoes. 
Colombine,    Po.   in   tartlet   fil.   ch.   liver,    ham,   mu.    sal. 

mad.  sa. 
Columbus,   Cook  one   in  a   sweet  pepper  and   one  in   a 

green  pepper,  shrimp  sauce. 
Comtesse,  Po.  on  asp.  pu.  supreme  sa.  w.  chopped  truf., 

gar.  w.  small  bouquet  asp.  tips. 
Conde,  Fried   in  pan  on  white   beans   pu.   gar.   w.   very 

small  ch.  croq.,  thick  gravy. 
Connetable,  Scr.  w.  smoked  beef,  gar.  w.  cornucopias  of 

smoked   beef   around. 
Conti,  Po.  on  lentils  pu.  colbert  sauce. 
Coque,  a  la,  Boiled  egg  cooked  from  one  to  five  minutes, 

put  in  boiling  water. 
Coquelicot,  Cooked  in  sweet  peppers,  unmold  on  can,  w. 

ch.  pu.  cream  sa.  around. 
Coquelin,  Shir,  cooked  in  border  of  ch.  fo.  meat,  broken 

in  thick  cream.     Baked. 
Cotelette,   Egg  sal.   chop   shape,  breaded  English   style. 

Divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Crecy,  Po.  on  sliced  smothered  carrots  w.  butter,  cream 

sauce    around   or   shir. 
Creme,  All  eggs  cooked  w.  sweet  cream,  hard,  sera,  in 

cocotte,  etc. 
Creole,  Po.  on  risotto  Creole  tom.  sa.  or  om.  fil.  w.  creole 

sa.  scr.  w.  Creole  sauce. 

—  44  — 


EGGS 

Cresfield,   Sera.  w.  large  crab  meat  saute  in  butter  or 

om.  meat  thickened  w.  cream  sa. 
Crevette,  Shrimps.  Om.  sera.  po.  w.  shrimps  sa.  or  sal. 

(See  crustaces  salpicon). 
Cromesquis,    (Polish   croq.)    egg   sal.    enclosed    in    caul, 

fried   in    batter.    Divers   sa. 
Croustade,   Crust  made   in   paste,   bread,   etc.   Po.    sera. 

soft,  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Croutons,  Bread  cut  in  dice,  fried  in  butter  served  for 

om.  sera. 
Crusoe,   Om.   fil.   w.   moril,   field  mu.   corn,   thick  gravy 

around. 
Czarine,  Use  4  lapwing  eggs  and  one  ch,  gar.  w.   filet 

of  hazel  grouse  and  truf.,  salmis  sa.  for  om.  or  sera. 
Dandigne,   Cooked  in  mould  sprinkled  w.  chopped  par- 
sley, unmould  on  ch.  pur.  thick  gravy  around. 
Danoise,  Po.  on  salmon  can.  border  w.  caviar  Colbert  sa. 

or  cold  on  salmon  salad  border  caviar  jelly  around. 
Daumale,  Sera.  gar.  w.  veal  kidney  saute  in  center,  torn. 

pu.  around. 
Daumont,   Cooked  in  dec.  mould  w.   truf.   and   crawfish 

tails,  unmould  on  large  mushrooms  gar.  around  w.  mu. 

truf.,  crawfish  quenelle,  cardinal  sa.  sprinkled  w.  coral. 
Dauphine,  Po.  breaded  English  style,  fried,  on  dauphine 

pot.  supreme  sa.  w.  chopped  truf. 
Dejardin,  Om.  fil.  w.  pounded  tom.  sliced  mu.  anchovies 

in  dice,  Colbert  sa.  around. 
Des  Pecheurs,  Fisherman  style,  om.  w.  fish  eggs,  mari- 

niere  sauce,  or  era.  w.  fish  eggs, 
Des   Princes,   Om.   fil.  w.   foi-g.   mu.   truf.,   sal.   supreme 

sa.  w.  puree  of  foi-g.  around. 
Diable,  Po.  deviled  rolled  bread  crumbs,  broiled  quickly. 

Deviled  sa.  around  or  bearnaise. 
Diane,  Po.  on  game  pu.  covered  salmis  sa.  w.  crescent 

of  truf.  and  white  of  eggs. 

Dieppoise,  Om.  fil.  w.  mussels,  shrimps,  mu.  Normande 
sa.  around. 

Diplomate,  Po.  on  art.  bottom  fil.  Duxelle  w.  truf.,  truf. 
sauce. 

—  45  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Divorcons,  Po.  on  art.  bottom,  supreme  sa.  on  one  and 
cardinal  sa.  on  the  other,  gar.  w.  bouquet  of  peas  and 
asp.  tips. 

D'Orsay,   Po.   on  mu.   pu.   Chateau   sa. 

D'Orleans,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  ch.  and  torn.  sal.  covered 
chivry  sauce. 

Dreux,  (Cold)  Po.  on  dec.  mould  and  surrounded  w,  jelly, 
unmould  on  aspa.  salad  or  asp.  in  mould  on  can. 

Drothingham,  MoUet  (soft)  on  can.  gar.  of  smoked  her- 
ring, covered  w.  white  wine  sauce. 

Due  (Petit),  (Cold)  mollet  (soft)  on  dec.  mould  fil.  w. 
jelly  unmould  on  aspa.  salad  or  (hot)  on  foi-g.  can. 
covered   supreme   sa.   w.   truf. 

Duchesse,  Po.  on  Duchesse  pot,  covered  sliced  mu.  w. 
cream  sa.  and  sprinkled  truf.  or  in  cocotte,  surrounded 
ch.  fo.  meat  w.  Duxelles  and  sweet  cream. 

Dufferin,  Po.  on  large  mu.  covered  cream  sa.  w.  horse- 
radish. 

Durand,  Om.  fil.  w.  mu.  art,  truf.,  mad.  sa.  w.  torn, 
bouquet  aspa.  tips  each  extremity. 

Durs  (Hard  boiled).  Eggs  cooked  12  minutes  only;  if 
cooked  longer  will  turn  black.     Divers  styles. 

Duse.  Po.  in  crut  fil.  w.  sal.  milanaise  covered  Mornay 
sa.  w.  tom.  browned  in  oven. 

Duvivier,  Om.  fil.  w.  pounded  fresh  tom.  and  grated 
Swiss  cheese. 

Ecarlate,  Po.  can.  w.  sliced  smoked  tongue,  covered  w. 
all.  sa.  w.  chopped  tongue  or  cooked  in  mould  sprinkl- 
ed w.  tongue,  ecarlate  sa. 

Ecossaise,  Po.  on  can.  covered  bearnaise  sa.  w.  bru- 
noise. 

Edison,  Po.  on  ch.  pu.  truf.  sa, 

Egyptienne,  Po.  on  jerusaleme  art.  puree  soubise  sa.  w. 
truf. 

Elisabeth,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  fil.  sliced  truf.  thickened 
w.  all.  sa.  covered  mornay  sa.  browned. 

Elliot,  Scr.  on  rice  border  w.  sliced  mu.  thick  gravy. 

£  mi  lie,  Om.  fil.  w.  vanilla  cream  w.  candies,  fruits  cut 
in  dice,  dec.  w.  fruit  on  top  sabayon  in  kirsch  around. 

Esau,  Shir.  fil.  w.  lentil  w.  salt  pork,  eggs  broken  on  top. 

Escallop,  Shir.  cov.  divers  sa.  and  gar.  or  sliced. 

—  46  — 


EGGS 

Esmeralda,  Po.  on  foi-g.  can.  Maximilien  sa.   sprinkled 

truf.  and  white  of  eggs. 
Espagnole,   Om.   fil.   w.   Spanish    gar.    (See    Creole)    or 
fried  in  oil  w.  sliced  ham,  torn.  sa. 
Estragon,  Po.  on  can.  w.  meat  juice  w.  taragon,  or  on 

dec.  mould  w.  taragon  fil.  w.  jelly. 
Eugenie,  Po.  on  large  mu.  fil.  w.  sliced  mu.  in  cream,  or 

in  crust,  gar.  w.   creamed  mu.  under  bell. 
Farci,  All  eggs  w.  various  stuffing,  hot  and  cold,  accord- 
ing to  name. 
Fedora,   Hard   stuf.   w.   ch.   sal.   breaded   English   style, 

fried  on  mu.  pu.  meat  juice. 
Figaro,  Shir.  w.  Spanish  sausage,  Montebello  sa.  or  cold. 

Po.  on  can.  w.  cooked  Spanish  ham,  figaro  sauce. 
Fiiles,    Stringed    eggs,    yolks     beaten     dropped   through 

strainer  into  boiling  water,  cool  and  drain,  used  for 

gar. 
Fines-Herbs,  All  eggs  w.  fi-herbs  shredded,  not  chopped. 
Finoise,   Po.   on   can,    covered   w.   tom.   sa.   w,    chopped 

green  and  sweet  peppers  w.  chives. 
Flora,  Po.  on  can  one  covered  Hollandaise  sa.  w.  chop- 
ped   truf.,    the   other   w.   Montebello    sa.    w.    chopped 

parsley. 
Floreal,  Po.  on  fresh  green  peas  pu.  gar.  w.  bouquet  of 

new  vegetables.     Bearnaise  sa. 
Florentine,   Po.   on   spinach   in   branch  covered  mornay 

sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Florida,   Po.  on   cake  of  sweet  pot.,  tom.   sa. 
Foie-de-Volaille    (Chicken   livers).   All  eggs   gar.   w.   ch. 

livers  saute  w.  mad.  sa. 

Forestiere,  Om.  fil.  w.  cepes,  moril  filed  mu.,  meat  juice 
and  fi.  her. 

Fourree,  All  omelets  stuffed  filled,  gar.  and  sa.  accord- 
ing to  name. 

Francfort,  Sera.  w.  francfort  sausage. 

Frederic,  Sera.  w.  green  corn  gar.  in  center  w.  ch,  liver 
saute. 

Frits,  All  eggs  fried  in  oil  and  rolled  or  fried  in  pan 
w.  butter,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 

Fromage,   (Cheese)   Po.  om.  sera.  w.  grated  cheese. 

—  47  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Frou-Frou,    (Cold)    Po.    cliaud     froid   sa.   dec.   on   green 

vegetable   salad,   jelly   around. 
Fruits,  Cm.  fil.  w.  divers  salpicon  of  fruit,  syrup,  cream 

sa.  or  liquors. 
Gabriel le,     Cooked   in   mould,   sprinkled   w.   coral,     sur- 
rounded fish  fo-meat,  mousseline  sa. 
Gambetta,    Oval    fried    eggs   in   pan.    and    can.    chopped 

parsley  on  one  yolk,  ring  of  truf.  on  other,  choron  sa. 

around. 
Garcia,  Fried  in  oil  on  can.  w.  ham,  torn.  sa.  w.  garlic 

and  chopped  parsley. 
Gauloise,  Po.  on  ham,  pu.  gar.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 

torn.  sa. 

Geant,  Giant  egg  cooked  in  bladder,  yolk  cooked  first, 

then  put  in  large  bladder  put  in  white    (beaten  very 

light)   boil  20  minutes,  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Genoise,  Hard  stuf.  w.  yolk  and  bread  crumbs,  anchovies 

fi-her.    covered    Mornay    sa.,    baked,    or   omelet   same 

Lafrittata. 
Georgette,   Cooked   emptied  baked  pot.   fil.   w.   crawfish 

sal.   mornay   sa.   baked. 
Georgia,  Po.  on  sweet  pot.  cake,  covered  cream  sa.  w. 

green  corn  pu.  browned  in  oven. 
Gill,  Hard  stuf.  w.  duxelle  and  chopped  green  and  sweet 

peppers,  Mornay  sa.  baked. 
Gladstone,  Po.   on  crust  fil.  chestnut  pu.,  cream  sa.  w, 

foi-g. 
Gourmet,  Po.  on  slice  of  foi-g.  gourmet  sa.  w.  truf. 
Grand-due,    Po.    on   crust   heart   shape   fil.   asp.    tips   w. 

cream.    Cream  sa.  w.  chopped  truf. 
Grand-mere,  Om.  w.  bread  croutons  fried  in  butter. 
Granier,  Shir,  bottom  fil.  w.  asp.  tips  w,  cream  and  truf . 
Grant,  Po.  on  toast  muffin  w.  anchovy  butter  fil.  filet 

anchovies   around.     Hollandaise   sa.    sliced   bacon. 
Gratin,  All  eggs  covered  mornay  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Graziana,  Fried  In  pan  w.   olive  oil  torn.   sa.   w.   garlic 

around,   gar.   w.   green  peas. 
Grazilia,  Cooked  in  cocotte  gar.  w.  fresh  muscat  raisins 

take  out  the  seeds,  meat  jtiice. 
Grecque,  Greek  style.  Po.  on  rice  pilaf  curry  sa.  or  om. 

w.  green  pepper,  egg-plant,  tom.,  curry  sa.  around. 

—  48  — 


EGGS 

Grenouiile,  Frog's  legs,  boneless,  thickened  w.  fi-herbs 

sa.  or  Creole  sa.,  om.  sera,  or  mixed  w.  beaten  eggs. 

Grille,  Broiled  eggs,    Po.  dipped  in  butter  and  crumbs 

broiled,  bearnaise  or  deviled  sa. 

Halevy,  Po.  on  crust,  one  fil.  w.   ch.   sal.   covered  tom. 

sa.,  the  other  fil.  w.  pound'ed  tom.  saute,  covered  Hol- 

landaise    sa. 

Havanaise,  Om.  fil.  ch.  liver  w.  Creole  tom.  sa.  around 

Heiene,  Po.  on  asp.  croq.  flat,  supreme  sa.  \v.  asparagus 

butter. 
HeloTse,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  montglas,  covered  w.  mornay 

sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Hoilandaise,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  \v.  salmon  sal.  covered  w. 

Hollandaise  sa. 
Henri  IV,  Po.  broiled  (See  grille)  w.  ham.  bearnaise  sa. 
Hongroise,   Hungarian  style,  hard,   sliced  tom.  w.  hon- 

groise  sauce,  or  paprika  sauce. 
HuTtres   (Oysters),  Om.,  shir.,  scr,,  pan  cake,  etc. 
Humbert,   In  mould,   sprinkled   w.   tongue  gar.  w.   bou- 
quet, mu.  egg-plant,  green  pepper,  tom.  sa.  around. 
Hussarde,  Po.  on  Yz  broiled  tom,  hussarde  sa. 
Imperiale,    Cooked   on    dec.    mould    croM^n   in   truf,    un- 
mould  on  slice  of  foi-g.  chateau  sa.  '■ 

Infante,  Po.  on  ch.  pu.  mornay  sa,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Internationale,  Po.  on  crust  fil.  mixed  vegetables  w.  ham 
and    spaghetti   thick,    tom.    sa,    covered   cream    sauce 
sprinkled  w,  pistachio  and  tongue. 
Isle  du   Cceur,  Po.  in  crust  heart  shape  fil.   sliced  mu. 

in  cream,  covered  same  sa.  sprinkled  yolk  and  truf. 
Italienne,  Italian  style,  fried  in  oil,  on  half  tom.  Italien- 

ne  sa. 
Jannbon,  Ham,  all  eggs  gar.  w.  ham. 
Japonaise,   Om.   or   sera.   v/.    Stachys     saute    in    butter 

cream  sa. 
Jeannette,   Cooked  in  cocotte,   surrounded   w.   foi-g.  pu, 
and  truf.,  cream  sa.  baked  in  oven,  slice  truf.  on  top. 
Jerome,  S'cra.  w.  game,  sal.  in  center,  meat  juice  with 

game  essence. 
Jerusalem,  All  eggs  gar.  w.  Jerusalem  artichoke. 
Jockey  Club,  Fried  in  pan,  round  shape,  on  foi-gr.  can. 
gar.  w.  veal  kidney  saute  w,  truf.,  meat  juce. 

—  49  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Jolibert,  Sera.  w.   torn,   saute  w.  cheese,  meat  juice  w. 

torn. 
Josephine,  Cooked  in  cocotte  fil.  w.  mu.  pu.  thick  cream, 

covered  Mornay  sa.,   baked,  torn.  sa.  around. 
Juliette,  (Cold)  Po.  mould  egg  shape.   Dec.  w.  pistachio 

surrounded   chaud   froid    sa.   w.   ham   essence   fil.   w. 

jelly  , under  mould,  chopped  jelly  w.  truf.  around. 
Jurassienne,  Om.  w.  chifonade  w.  sorrel,  fin.  herbs  and 

salt  pork. 
Jus,  All  eggs  w.  meat,  puree,  game,  ch.,etc.  w.  gravy  ac- 
cording to  the  eggS: 
Kennebeck,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  salmon  shrimps  sa. 
Kedive,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  w.  curry  and  spinach, 

supreme  sa.  w.   saffron,  cap  made  w.   sweet  peppers 

on  top. 
Kieber,  STiir.  bottom  fil.  noodles  w.  foi-g.  pu.  meat  juice 

around. 
Lakme,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  sweetbread  sal.  w.  curry,  colbert 

sa.  w.  chopped  taragon. 
Lafayette,    Shir.   gar.   w.   salt  pork,   chipolata   sausage, 

oolbert  sa. 
Lafrittata (Italian  term  for  om),  A  la  Genoise  w.  spinach 

tom.  onions,  anchovies,  cheese,  gr.  pepper  om.  flat. 
La  Valliere,  Om.  gar.  w.  green  peas  and  ham,  meat  juice 

around. 
Lapcrouse,  Po.   on  art.  pu.   covered    supreme   sa,   slice 

truf.  on  top. 
Le  Boutillier,  Cooked  on  emptied  round  rolls  fil.  w.  ham 

pu.  w.  cream,  baked  in  earthen  dish,  fil.  w.  thick  cream. 
Leontine,   Cooked   in   cocotte   fil.   w.   crawfish  and  truf. 

sal.  Nantua  sa. 
Lesseps  Shir.  gar.  w.  calf's  brains,  capers,  black  butter, 
Liiloise,    Shir,    bottom     fil.     bruxelles     sprouts     lightly 

pounded  w.  cream,  cream  sa.  around. 
Lili,   Cooked  in  sprinkled  mould  w.   coral,  unmould  on 

crust,  fil.  shrimps,  sal.  shrimp  sa. 
Lina  Munte,  (Cold)  Mollet  (soft)  chaud-froid  sa.  w.  mu. 

head   chaud   froid,   turn  over  w.   truf.   ball.    Pearl   of 

truf.  on  top  on  each  egg. 
Lithuanienne,  Po.  on  large  mu.  fil.  w.  mu.  pu.  truf.  sa. 

—  50  — 


EGGS 

Livingston,  Po.  on  can.  of  foi-g.  gar.  w.  torn,  saute,  meat 

juice  w.  torn. 
Lokel,   Sera.   w.   American   cheese,   welsh   rarebit   style 

on  toast. 
Lorette,    Po.    on    pot-cake     Lorette,     bunch   of   asp.    tip 

around.   Cream   sa. 
Lorenzo,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  crab  meat,  covered  mornay 

sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Lorraine,    Shir,    bottom    fil.    w.    choucroute    sliced    ham 

and  sausage.     Meat  juice  around. 
Louis  XiV,  Po.   on  can.   fil.  w.   ch.  pu.  and  tongue  cut 

in  dice,  covered  supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Louise,  Cooked  in  cocotte  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  sliced  mu.  and 

cream.  Baked. 
Louisette,   Po.  on  Dauphine  pot  cake  w.  ham,  covered 

cream  sa.  w.  ham,  pu.  sprinkled  w.  truf. 
Lully,   Fried   eggs  on  sliced  ham,   gar.  w.  macaroni  w. 

pounded  tom.  thickened  w.  butter. 
Lucullus,  All  eggs  w.  woodcock  brains  and  truf.  thicken- 
ed w.  meat  juice  w.  Xeres  wine. 
Lyonnaise,  Hard,  sliced  w,  smothered  onions  thickened 

Espagnola  sa.  or  om.  w.  onions  saute. 
Magenta,  Sera.  gar.  w.  ham  cut  in  dice  pounded  tom. 

ehipolata  sausage  around,  tom.  sa.  w.  fin-herbs. 
Magda,   Sera,  in   crust  w.   grated  cheese,  mustard,   fin. 

herbs. 
Maintenon,  Po.  on  can.  gar.  w.  soubise,  covered  cream 

sa.  w.  soubise,  browned  in  oven. 
Malmaison,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  green  peas,  string  beans 

and  aspa.  tip,  covered  bearnaise  sa. 
Mancelle,    Sera.    w.    chestnuts,    and   julienne    of   game, 

meat  juice  w.  game  essence. 
Manon,  Egg  croquettes  fil.  in  center  ch.  sal.  chop  shape, 

supreme  sa.  w.  truf.,  cock's  kidneys  around. 
Maraichere,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  chiffonade,  fi-herb.  sa. 
Marengo,  Fried  in  oil  on  can.  w.  fried  ham,  marengo  sa. 
Marin,   Sailor   style,   om.   gar.   w.  cock's  combs  and  milt 

of  carp,  thickened  w.  all.  sa. 
Mariniere,  All  eggs  gar.  w.  mollusk,  Mariniere  sa. 
Marivaux,  Sera.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  truf.  pu.  meat  juic4 

around. 

—  51  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Marquise,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  asp.  tips  covered  chivry  sa, 
sliced  truf.  on  top. 

Marlines,  Sera.  w.  sweet  peppers  cut  in  dice,  torn.  sa. 
around. 

Massena,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  bordelaise  sa.  w.  marrow. 

Matelote,  S'ailor  style.  Po.in  crust  boat  shape  fil.  w. 
shrimps,  lobster  cut  in  dice,  small  onions  tliicknened 
w.  matelote  sa. 

Maximilien,  Po.  on  half  tom.  stuf.  w.  duxelle  and  fi- 
ber, covered  Maximilien  sa. 

Mayaguez,  Sera.  w.  green  sweet  pepper  and  mu.  poiv- 
rade  sa.  around. 

Medicis,  Po.  in  crust,  one  fil.  w.  sorrel  and  one  with 
spinach,  covered  Venitienne  sa. 

Mentonnaise,  (Cold)  Hard  stuf.  w.  tuna  fish,  on  an- 
chovy can.  fil.  w.  tuna  sal.   chopped  jelly. 

Mercedes,  Sera,  in  crust  w.  fresh  tom.  saute  in  oil  w. 
garlic,  tom.  sa.  around. 

Mere  Poulard,  Cm.  country  style  flat,  specialty  of  Mere 
Poulard  Mont  S't.  Michel,  France. 

Merry,  Sera,  in  crust  w.  sweet  peppers  and  turtle  fat, 
Colbert  sauce. 

Mexicaine,  Om.  fil.  w.  egg-plant,  tom.  mexican  pepper 
saute,    mexican    sauce    around. 

Meyerbeer,  Shir.  w.  broiled  lamb  kidneys,  truf.  sa. 

Mignon,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  fil.  half  green  peas  half 
shrimps,  covered  shrimp  sa.  truf.  on  top. 

Milanaise,  Po.  on  Milanaise  risotto  covered  Mornay 
sa.,  browned  in  oven,  tom.  sa.  around. 

Mirabeau,  Po.  on  anchovies  can.  gar.  stuf.  olives,  meat 
juice  w.   taragon. 

Mireiile,  Po.  on  Italian  risotto,  gar.  pounded  tom.  saute 
covered  cream  sa.  w.  saffron. 

Miroir,  Shir.,  cook  lightly. 

Mogador,  Po.  on  sweet  pot  cake-covered  supreme  sa.  W; 
foi-g.  pu.  and  chopped  truf. 

Moissonneuse,  Om.  w.  salt  pork  and  sliced  pot.  fiat. 

Moiiere,    Moilet      (soft)    on    stuf.     tom.      Regence      sa. 

Mollet  (Soft,  5  to  6  minutes),  Peeled,  gar.  and  sa.  ac- 
cording to  article. 

•—  52  — 


EGGS 

Monaco,  Po.  on  slice  of  foi-g.  saute,  covered  Mornay  sa., 

browned  in  oven.     Monaco  sa.  around. 
Montgias,   Po.   in  crust  fil.  Monglas   sal.   or  on  slice  of 

foi-g.  Montgias  sa. 
Monselet,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  foi-g.  gar.  asp.  tips  and  mu. 

meat  juice. 
Monseigneur,    Mollet    (soft)    in   crust   fil,   w.    sorrel   pu. 

Colbert  sa. 
Montana,  Po.  on   green  corn  pu.   covered  cream   sa.  w. 

green  corn  pu. 
Montargis,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  foi-g.  ch.  mu.  and  tongue 

in  julienne,  mornay  sa.   browned. 
Montcalm,  Po.  on  stuf.  torn,  colbert  sa.  w.   taragon. 
Montmorency,    Po.    on    bottom    art.    gar.     w.     asp.    tips, 
....supreme  sa. 
Montpassant,  P.  w.  red  wine  on  can.  gar.  small  onions 

glazed,   covered  matelotte  sa. 
Montpensier,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  asp.  tips  and  truf.  w. 

cream  sauce  and  crawfish  butter,  slice  of  truf.  on  top. 
Morlaix,    (Cold)    Hard-stuf.  w.  shrimps  salad  on  lettuce 

leaves,  chopped  jelly  around. 
Mornay,  All  eggs  covered  Mornay  sa.  and  grated  cheese 

glazed  quickly. 
Morny,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  soubise  pu.  covered  mornay 

sa.  w.  tom.  browned. 
Moscovite,   (Cold)   hard-stuf.  anchovies  salad  on  bottom 

art.  fil.  w.  caviar  jelly  around. 
Moule,  All   eggs   cooked   in   dec.   mould,   sprinkled,   sur- 
rounded divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Mousseline,    Po.    soft,    etc.    on    moussellne,     force-meat. 

(See   force-meat)    Divers  style  and  sa. 
Naiad,  Cooked  in  sweet  peppers  on  can.,  Colbert  sa.  or 

cold,   same  in  crust  fil.   w.  verte   sa. 
Nantais,   Po.    on    can.,    broiled   boneless    fresh   sardines, 

covered  poisson  sa.  w.  fi.-herb. 
Nantua,  Om.  or  sera.  w.  crawfish  tails,  thickened  Nan- 

tua  sa.  or  cold  hard  stuf.   w.  crawfish  sal.   eggs  sur- 
rounded v/.  anchovies,  on  bottom  art.  jelly  around. 
Napolitaine,  In  mould  surrounded  w.  spaghetti  fil.  soft 

sera,    eggs    w.    tongue,    put    in    oven    2    minutes,    un- 

mould,   Napolitaine  sa.   around. 

—  53  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Navarraise,  Po.  on  risotto  w.  green  and  sweet  peppers, 

bearnaise   sa. 
Negus,  Po,  one  on  flat  game  croquette  and  one  on  ch. 

croquette  truf.  sa. 
Newburg,  Hard  sliced  thickened  w.  Newburg  sa. 
New  Jersey,  Po.  on  half  broiled  torn,  bearnaise  sa.  on 

egg,  torn.  sa.  around. 
New   York    Club,    Om,    fil.   w.    oyster    crabs   and    oyster 

nuts  thickened  w.  Newburg  sa. 
Nigoise,  Po.   on   bottom  art.   fil.   pounded  torn,   covered 

mornay  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Nicolas,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  fil.  mu.  pu.  covered  supreme 

sa.  sprinkled  truf.  and  coral. 
Ninette,  Po.  on  bun  paste  empty  fil.  mu.  sal.  w,  cream, 

supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Ninon,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  asp.  tips,  chivry  sa.,  slice  truf. 

on  top. 
Noailles,  Om.  fil.  foi-g.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  sal. 

Supreme  sa.  bouquet  of  cock's  kidneys  around. 
Nonette,  Po.  on  tongue  can.  gar.  w.  tongue,  force-meat 

quenelle  nonette  shape,   bordelaise  sa. 
Nordenskjold,  Cold  in  mould  surrounded  w.  jelly,  slice 

of  round  boiled  egg  on  bottom,  center  in  yolk  w.  point 

of  truf.,  po.  or  soft  fil.  w.  jelly,  unmould  on  tartalet 

paste   w.    ravigotte   sa. 
Normande,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  sal.  of  mussels,  shrimps, 

mu.  Normande  sa.  or  flat  om.  w.  sliced  apples,  saut© 

in  butter. 
Norvegienne,   Cold   mollet    (soft)    on   anchovy   can.   cov- 
ered w.  mayonnaise  w.  whipped  cream,  sprinkled  w. 

coral. 
Offenbach,  In  crust  fil.  sera.  w.  shrimps,  tuna  and  an- 
chovies,   tom.    sa.   around. 
Omelettes,   (Omelets)   All  omelet  fil.  w.  divers  garnish- 
ing, indefinite  variety. 
Omer   Pacha,   Shir,   bottom   fil.   w.   shredded   smothered 

onions,  covered  grated  cheese,  baked. 
Opera,  Shir.  gar.  w.  asp.  tips  and  ch.  livers  saute,  meat 

juice. 
Oranais,   Po.   in   crust,   fil.   w.  onions,  ham.,   mu.   sweet 

peppers  sal.,  Colbert  sa. 

—  54  — 


EGGS 

Orientale,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  ch.  green  corn,  green 
peppers  sal.,  cream  sa.  w.  tongue,  green  and  sweet 
peppers  cut  in  dice. 

Orleanais,  Po.  on  can.,  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.,  one  covered  Mar- 
engo sa.,  on  other  chivry  sa. 

Oseille,  (Sorrel)  Om.  shredded  sorrel  or  soft  on  sorrel 
puree,  etc. 

Ostendaise,  Sera,  in  tartelet,  crust  fil.  w.  nuts  of  oysters. 
Poisson  sa.  w.  fi-her.  around. 

Otero  Belle,  Cooked  or  po.  in  baked  pot.  shell  fil.  w. 
ch.  pu.  w.  sweet  peppers  in  dice  or  in  crust  w.  Maxi- 
milien  sa. 

Oudinot,  Hard  stuf.  w.  yolk  and  duxelles  w.  truf.  cov- 
ered w.  cream  sa.  baked. 

Palermltaine,  Co-oked  in  mould,  sprinkled  w.  tongue,  un- 
moulded  on  crust,  fil.  w.  macaroni  and  truf.  w.  butter, 
surrounded  w.  torn.  sa. 

Pacha,  Po.  on  lamb  hash  w.  curry  gar.  egg  plant  and 
pounded  tom.  around. 

Parisienne,  Om.  fil.  w.  bottom  art.  and  truf.  cut  in  dice 
saute,  surrounded  with  juice  of  meat. 

Parmentier,  Om.  w.  pot.  in  dice  cooked  in  butter,  meat 
juice  around. 

Pastourelle,  Fried  eggs  w.  salt  pork  gar.  w.  broiled  kid- 
neys and  field  mu.   surrounded  w.  meat  juice. 

Patti,  Po.  on  lice  of  foi-g.  saute,  truf.  sa. 

Paysanne,  Country  style,  flat  om.  w.  salt  pork  and  raw 
sliced   pot.    saute. 

Peluche,  Om.  w.  chervil,  Colbert  sa.  w.  chervil  around. 

Perigord,  Om.  or  sera.  w.  truf.  sliced  truf.  on  top,  meat 
juice. 

Perier,  Cook  one  in  green  pepper  and  another  in  a  sweet 
pepper  on  ch.  pu.,  Parisienne  sa.  around. 

Petit  Due,  Po.  on  large  mu.  colbert  sa. 

Petit  Sale,  All  eggs  w.  bacon  or  salt  pork. 

Piemontaise,   Sera.   w.   white   truf  and  grated   cheese. 

Pietri,  In  cocotte  fil.  w.  spaghetti,  tongue  truf  sal.  tom- 
ato sa.  around. 

Plat,  sur  le,  Cooked  on  special  dish  for  shirrjed  eggs, 
garnishing  and  sauce  facultative. 

—  55  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Plaza,    Po.    on   cauliflower   pu.    mornay   sa.   browned   in 

oven. 
Plumery,   S'hir.     white  of  egg  mixed  w^     torn.   pu.   and 

soubise  pu.  yolk  on  top,  gar.  ham  cro. 
Roches,  Poached  in  boiled  water,  the  eggs  must  be  ab- 
solutely fresh,   otherwise   put   little   vinegar,   after   2 

or  3  minutes  put  in  cold  water,  trimmed,  eggs  ready 

to  serve.     See  the  book  for  varieties. 
Pointes  d'asperges,  Asparagus  tips,  all  eggs  gar.  w.  asp. 

tips,  cream  sa.  or  meat  juice. 
Polignac,    (Cold)    Po.    on    dec.    mould    (See    Belle-Vue) 

surrounded  with  pink  jelly. 
Polonaise,  Polish  style.  Po.  on  lamb  hash  w.  cepes  meat 

juice  around  or  cooked  in  mould,  surrounded  w.  fried 

bread  crumbs,  colbert  sauce  arround. 
Portugaise,  Po.  on  stuf.  tom.  fil.  w.  rice  Creole,  torn.  sa. 

om.  or  sera.  w.  Portugaise  sa. 
PompeVe,  Po.  on  ham  can.  bottom  art.  on  top  covered 

Bearnaise  sa.  w.  pinch  of  paprika  on  top. 
Posen,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  oyster  crabs,  nantua  sa. 
Poulette,  Hard  sliced  w.  poulette  sa.  w,  mu.  and  chives. 
Prelat,  Om.  fil.  w.  crawfish  tails,  shrimp,  mu.  truf,  sal. 

Normande  sa.  w.  truf.  around. 
P re-vert,  Po.  on  creamed  spinach  w.  fleuron. 
Princesse,  Po.  in   crust  w.   bun  paste,  fil.  w.  asp.  tips, 

supreme  sa.  w.  truf,  or  cold  in  case  fil.  w.  asp.  tips 

sal.  dec.  and  jelly. 
Provengale,  Om.  fil.  w.  tom.  saute  w.  garlic  and  fi-herb. 

Provengale  sa.  around  or  sera,  the  same. 
Quirinal,  Empty  large  truf.  fil.  w.  sera,  eggs,  foi-g.  and 

truf,  lucullus  sa..  around. 
Rachel,  Om.  fil.  w.  asp.  tips  and  truf,  supreme  sa.  and 

sliced  truf.  around. 
Raspall,  Om.  w.  boiled  beef,  ham  and  chives  surrounded 

with  meat-juice. 
Ravigote,  Po.  cold,  dec.  mould  w.  gerkins  in  crust,  fil. 

w.  ravigote  sa. 
Regence,   Om.   fil.   regence  sal.  regence  sa.  around. 
Regina,   Cooked  in   emptied   tom.   fil.   w.   sole,   shrimps, 

mu.  truf,  sal.  normande  sa. 
Reine,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  reine  sal.  supreme  sa.  and  truf. 

—  56  — 


EGGS 

Reine  Margot,  In  cocotte  surrounded  ch.  pu.  w.  almond 

milk,  supreme  sa.  w.   chopped  almonds. 
Richmond,   Cooked   or  po.    on   emptied   muffins,   dipped 

in   milk,    fil.   w.    ham     pu.    covered     supreme     sa.     w. 

chopped  ham. 
Rienzi,  Po.  on  foi-g  can.   itaiienne  sa.   sliced  bacon. 
Rissoies,  Egg  sal.   rolled   in   thin   puff  paste,   baked  or 

fried. 
Robespierre,  Om.  w.  sugar  and  absinthe,  burned. 
Robinson,  Mollet  (soft)   cold  on  can.  fil.  w.  horseradish 

w.   whipped    cream,    covered   mayonnaise    sa.    w.    fin- 
herb. 
Roederer,    Hard    stuf.    w.    anchovies,    yolk   and    fi-herb, 

anchovies  sa. 
Rognons  (Kidneys),  Om.  on  sera,  gar,  w.  kidneys  saute, 

mad.   sa, 
Roland,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  sa.  supreme  and  ch, 

pu,  w.  tongue  and  truf,  in  dice, 
Romaine,  Po.  on  spinach,  covered  mornay  sa.  browned 

in  oven. 
Romeo,  Po.  on  can.  fil,  w,  anchovies,  covered  mornay 

sa,  w.  chopped  ham,  brov/ned  in  oven. 
Rose,   Po,   in  crust  fil,   shrimps     and     sweet     peppers, 

shrimp  sa. 
Rosita,  Po.  cold  chaud-froid  lobster  sa.  on  salmon  salad, 

jelly  around. 
Rossini,  Po.  on  sliced  foi-g.  saute,  mad.  sa.  and  truf. 
Rothschild,  Po,  in  crust,  fil.  chestnuts  pu.  sa.  supreme 

w,  foi-g.  pu,  and  chopped  truf. 
Rothomago,  Shir,  w,  sliced  ham,  gar,  w,  tom.  and  chip- 

olaat  sausage,  torn,  sa,  around. 
Rouennaise,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w,  duck's  liver,  Rouennaise 

sa, 
Rougemont,  Po.  on  risotto  milanaise,  covered  mornay  sa. 

browned  in  oven,  tom,  sa,  around, 
Royale,   Om.   soufflee   style   center  fil,   w.   fruit   sal.   w. 

maraschino,  surrounded  w.  pancakes,  fil,  one  vanilla 

cream  and  other  w,  jam,  put  on  one  pancake,  a  half  of 

a  peach,  and  on  another  the  half  of  an  apricot,  fruit 

sa,  w.   kirsch   around,   or  po.   on   can,   fil.   w.    lobster 

covered  lobster  sa.  w.  julienne  mu.  and  truf. 

—  57  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Rubens,   Om.   fil.   w.  hop  shoots   w.   butter,  meat  juice 

around. 
Russe,    Hard,    cold    stuf.    w.    caviar   on   anchovies    can. 

border  w.  chopped  egg. 
Sagan,  Shir.  gar.  w.  calf's  brains  poulette. 
St.  Alliance,  Hard  cold  stuf.  w.  anchovies,  moulded  in 

jelly  w.  tom.  moulded  on  sliced  round  jelly  w.  truf. 
St.  Denis,  Sera,  on  border  w.  risotto  w.  mu.  meat  juice 

around. 
St.  Germain,  Po.  on  pu.  of  green  peas,  supreme  sa.  w. 

chervil. 
St.  Hubert,  Po.  on  game  hash  poivrade  sa.  around. 
St.    Laurent,     Po.,     dipped   in   butter,     rolled   in   bread 

crumb,  broiled,  on  ham  can.,  Colbert  sa. 
Salvator,  Om.  fil.  w.  ham,  mu.  egg-plant,  truf,  sal.  tom. 

sa.  around. 
Sans-Gene,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  bordelaise  sa.  w.  taragon, 

marrow  on  top. 
Sarah    Bernhardt,   Po.   on   can.  fil.   w.   ch.   pu.   venitiene 

sa.   Sarah  Ber.  pot  around. 
Savoyarde,  Om.  w.  sliced  .raw  pot,  saute,  swiss  cheese, 

meat  juice  around. 
Sevigne,  Po.  on  can.  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  w.  truf.  chivry  sa. 

sliced  truf.  on  top, 
Seville,   Po.   on   can.   gar.   w.     bouquet  of  sweetbreads, 

carrots,   onions,    shrimps,   sweet   pepper   in  Jul.   mad. 

sa.  w.  torn,  around. 
Sigurd,  Om.  w.  raw  pot  and  truf  cut  in  dice  and  saute, 

mad.  sa.   w.  tom.   around. 
Skobeleff,  Po.  cold  chaud  froids  w.  tom.  dec.  w.  taragon 

leaves,  on  salmon  can.,  cucumber     salad     and     jelly 

around. 
Smithfield,  Po.   cold,  dec.   mould  fil.   w.  jelly  in  mould 

on    cold   mousseline,    ham,    jelly   around    or   whipped 

cream. 
Soft,     All   eggs   cooked  soft,  gar.   and  sa.  according  to 

style. 

Sombreuil,  Hard  in  halves  stuf.  w.  ch.  sal.  covered  all. 

sa.  w.  cheese  browned  in  oven. 

Soubeyran,  In  cocotte  fil.  w.  soubise  pu.  w.  truf,  su- 
preme sa.  w.  truf.  around. 

—  58  — 


J---  EGGS 

Soubise,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  Soubise  and  ch.  pu.,  Soubise 

sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Soubrette,  Fried  in  oval  ring  eye   shape,  point  of  truf 

on  yoll?:,  on  sorrel  pu.,  meat  juice  around. 
Souffle,  Puff  omelet  composition,  take  two  yolks  of  eggs 

and  work  w.  powdered  sugar,  whip  six  whites  of  eggs, 

vanilla.     Baked  or  po.  in  cassolette  w.  cheese  soufflee 

or  souffles   (See  Entremets  and  Mollet). 
Sous  Cloche,    (Under  Bell.)    Po.  can.  fil.  w.  mu.  cream 

on  dish  covered  w.  glass  bell. 
Soya,    Po.    cooked    in    mould    sprinkled    w.    parsley    on 

can.,  Colbert  sa.  w.  isoya  sa. 
Spartanza,  Po.  on  half  tom.   saute  covered  w.  tom.   sa. 

w.  Jul.  of  green  peppers,  sprinkled  white  of  eggs. 
Stanley,    Po.    on    risotto    w.    curry    sa.    w.    horseradish, 

fried  bananas  around. 
Stratford,  Po.  on  half  tom.  saute,  HoUandaise  sa. 
Suissesse,    Swiss    (style)    om.    sera.   w.      grated      swiss 

cheese. 
Sultan,     In   cocotte  fil.   w.   lamb,     egg-plant,     art.    sal., 

curry  sa.  w.  saffron  around. 
Sultane,  Hard,  stuf.  yolk  w.   green  and  sweet  peppers, 

fi.  herb,  covered  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  jelly  around. 
Surprise,  Emptied  ^^^  shells,  fil,  w.  divers  pu.  or  cream, 

Bavaroise,  fruit,  jelly,  etc.,  or  om.  fil.  divers  gar.  (See 

ice  cream.) 
Suzette,  Cooked,  emptied  baked  pot,  fil.  w.  pulp  chives 

and  cream,  break  the  eggs  inside.     Baked. 
Talleyrand,   Cooked  in  mould  sprinkled  w.  tongue  and 

truf.  on  crust  fil.  w.  macaroni  and  truf.  mad.  sa.  cov- 
ered supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Thanksgiving,     Po.  in  crust,  fil.  chestnut    pu.    covered 

cream  sa.  w.  truf. 
Theo,   Po.   in  crust,  fil.  w.  reine   sal.   covered  supreme 

sa.  w.  truf. 
Tivoli,  Cooked  in  bread  crust,  fried  in  butter,  covered 

w.  Mornay  sa.,  baked. 
Tivolier,  Fried  in  oil  on  can.  fil.  w.  marrow,  mad.  sa. 

w.  ham.  cut  in  dice. 
Tomate,  All  eggs  gar.  w,  tomatoes,  pounded,  puree  or  sa. 
Toupinel,   See   Suzette.  Add   creamed   spinach. 

—  59  — 


GANCEL'S     CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Touraine,   Po.   on   bottom,   art.   covered   HoUandaise   sa. 

gar.  w.  bouquet,  string  beans  and  ilageolets. 
Tout   Paris,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  one  Parisienne  sa.,  the 

other   HoUandaise   sa.   gar.    bouquet,   asp.    tips,   green 

peas,  string  beans,  fancy  carrots,  turnips,  thicken  w. 

butter. 
Trenton,  Po.  on  flat  sweet  pot.  cro.  covered  torn.  sa.  gar. 

pounded   torn. 
Tripes,  Hard  sliced  eggs  w.  shirred  onions  smothered, 

thin  cream  sa.  w.  chives. 
Troubadour,  Po.  or  om.  w.  moril  minced  and  saute,  mu. 

on  top,  meat  juice. 
T ruffe,  All  eggs  served  w.  composition  of  truffles. 
Turbigo,  Shir.  gar.  w.  pounded  tom.,  chipolata  sausages, 

mu.  mad.  sa.  w.  torn,  fin-herbs. 
Turinoise,  Po.  on  crust  or  om.  fil.  spaghetti  w,  ch.  liver 

sal.  meat  juice  around. 
Turque,  Shir.  gar.  w.  rice  pilaf  and  ch.  liver  saute,  mad. 

sa. 
Tzarine,  Sera.  w.  4  plover  eggs,  1  hen  egg,  filet  of  gel- 

inote,  sliced  truf.  on  top.,  game  essence  around. 
Valencienne,  Po.  on  Valencienne  rice,  tom.  sa. 
Valentine,  Po.  in  crust,  heart  shape,  fil.  w.  crab  meat, 

Creole,   Mexicaine   sa.    sprinkled  w.   truf. 
Vancourt,  Shir,  bordered  w.  Duchesse  pot.  gar.  w.  asp. 

tips,  thickened  cream. 
Varsovienne,  Cold  hard  stuf.  w.  caviar  on  can.  smoked 

salmon,  border  w.   salmon  puree,  jelly  around. 
Venitienne,  Po.  on  can.  covered  w.  venitienne  sa.  sprin- 
kled coral  truf.  and  chopped  eggs. 
Verdi,  Sera.  w.  truf.  and  grated  cheese,  truf.  sa. 
Vichy,  Shir,  on  dish,  bottom  fil.  w.  carrot's,  vichy. 
Vert-pre,  Cold  hard  stuf  w.  yolk  and  fi-herb,  on  green 

vegetable    salad,    covered   Vincent   sa.   jelly   aroud. 
Victor    Hugo,    Po.    on    can.    one    covered    bearnaise    sa. 

and  other  horseradish  sa.  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Victoria,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  lobster  sal.  victoria  sa.  around. 
Viennoise,  Po.  on  can.  w.  ham,  cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  paprika, 

two  slices  bacon  on  top. 

—  60  — 


EG-GS 

Viilars,  Po.  in   crust  fil.  art.   sal.  cream  sa.   and  bacon 

on  top  or  border  white  beans  pu. 
Viileroy,  All.  eggs  covered  chaud-froid  sa.  breaded.  Engl- 
ish style  and  fried,  or  cold  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  divers 

style. 
Virginia,    Cold,  mollet    (soft)    in   small   crown  cf   mous- 

seline   of  Virginia   ham,   whipped   cream   around   the 

eggs,  jelly. 
Vlroflay,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  spinach  and  butter  covered 

w.  chivry  sa. 
Viveurs,   Om.   fil.   w.   calf's,  brains,   spinal  marrow,   mu. 

truf,  chateau  sa.  w.  fi-herb. 
Vol-au-Vent,  All  eggs,  hard,  hard,  sera.  Sal.  etc,  served 

on  large  puff  paste  shell,  divers  styles. 
Vclontaire,  Po.  in  crust',  fil.  pounded  torn,  covered  mor- 

nay  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Waldimir,    Cold,    po.    covered    w.    chaud-froid    w.    may- 
onnaise sa,  on  asp.  tips  and  truf.  salad,  jelly  around, 
Waldorf,   Po.   on   can,   fil.   w.    foi-g.   large   mu.    on   top, 

covered  mad.  sa.  w.  truf. 
Waieska,  Om.  fil,  lobster  and  truf  sal.  truf.  sa.  w,  caviar. 
Washington,  Po.  on  fried  sliced  torn,  and  green  peppers, 

covered  tom.  sa. 
Weyier,    Po.   on   border   Duchesse   pot.   fil.   w.   mu.     pu. 

cream  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Wilna,  Po.  on  caviar  can.  anchovies  sa. 

York,   Hard    stuf   w.    yolk,    ham,    truf,   breaded    English 
style  and  fried  on  can.  w.  ham,  tom.   sa.  around, 

Yorkshire,  Fried  on  slice  of  ham,  tom.  sa. 

Yvette,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  crawfish  and  asp.  tips  sal. 
Nantua  sa.  w.  truf. 

Yvonne,   Mollet    (soft)    on  flat   chestnut  croq..   Supreme 
sa.  w.  foi-g.  around. 

Zaza,  Cooked  in  sweet  peppers,  cold  on  ch.  salad,  jelly. 
Zingara,  Po.  or  fried  in  oil,  ham  can.  zingara  sa. 
Zurlo,  Po.  on  flat  cro.  Duch-esse  pot,  cream  sa.  w.  truf. 

—  61  — 


GANCEL'S'     CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Touraine,   Po.   on   bottom,   art.   covered   HoUandaise   sa. 

gar.  w.  bouquet,  string  beans  and  flageolets. 
Tout  Paris,  Po.  on  bottom  art.  one  Parisienne  sa.,  tlie 

other   HoUandaise   sa.    gar.    bouquet,   asp.   tips,   green 

peas,  string  beans,  fancy  carrots,  turnips,  thicken  w. 

butter. 
Trenton,  Po.  on  flat  sweet  pot.  cro.  covered  torn.  sa.  gar. 

pounded   torn. 
Tripes,  Hard  sliced  eggs  w.  shirred  onions  smotliered, 

thin  cream  sa.  w.  chives. 
Troubadour,  Po.  or  om.  w.  moril  minced  and  saute,  mu. 

on  top,  meat  juice. 
T ruffe,  All  eggs  served  w.  composition  of  truffles. 
Turbigo,  Shir.  gar.  w.  pounded  tom.,  chipolata  sausages, 

mu.  mad.  sa,  w.  tom.  fin-herbs. 
Turi noise,  Po.  on  crust  or  om,  fil.  spaghetti  w.  ch.  liver 

sal.  meat  juice  around, 
Turque,  Shir,  gar.  w.  rice  pilaf  and  ch.  liver  saute,  mad. 

sa, 
Tzarine,  Sera.  w.  4  plover  eggs,  1  hen  egg,  filet  of  gel- 

inote,  sliced  truf.  on  top.,  game  essence  around. 
Valencienne,  Po.  on  Valencienne  rice,  tom.  sa. 
Valentine,  Po.  in  crust,  heart  shape,  fil.  w.  crab  meat, 

Creole,   Mexicaine   sa,    sprinkled  w,   truf. 
Vancourt,  Shir,  bordered  w.  Duchesse  pot.  gar.  w,  asp, 

tips,  thickened  cream. 
Varsovienne,  Cold  hard  stuf.  w.  caviar  on  can.  smoked 

salmon,  border  w.   salmon   puree,  jelly  around. 
Venitienne,  Po,  on  can.  covered  w.  venitienne  sa.  sprin- 
kled coral  truf.  and  chopped  eggs. 
Verdi,  Sera,  w,  truf.  and  grated  cheese,  truf.  sa, 
Vichy,  Shir,  on  dish,  bottom  fil.  w.  carrots,  vichy. 
Vert-pre,   Cold  hard  stuf  w.  yolk  and  fi-herb,  on  green 

vegetable    salad,    covered    Vincent    sa.    jelly    aroud. 
Victor    Hugo,    Po.    on    can.    one    covered    bearnaise    sa. 

and   other  horseradish  sa.  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Victoria,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  lobster  sal.  victoria  sa.  around. 
Viennoise,  Po,  on  can.  w.  ham,  cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  paprika, 

two  slices  bacon  on  top. 

—  60  — 


EG-GS 

Vi liars,  Po.  in   crust  fil.  art.   sal.  cream  sa.   and  bacon 

on  top  or  border  white  beans  pu. 
Villeroy,  All.  eggs  covered  chaud-froid  sa.  breaded.  Engl- 
ish style  and  fried,  or  cold  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  divers 

style. 
Virginia,   Cold,   mollet   (soft)    in   small   crown  cf   mous- 

seline   of  Virginia   ham,   whipped   cream   around   the 

eggs,  jelly. 
Vlroflay,  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  spinach  and  butter  covered 

w.  chivry  sa. 
Viveurs,   Om.   fil.   w.   calf's   brains,   spinal  marrow,   mu. 

truf,  chateau  sa.  w.  fi-herb. 
Vol-au-Vent,  All  eggs,  hard,  hard,  sera.  Sal.  etc.  served 

on  large  puff  paste  shell,  divers  styles. 
Voiontaire,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  pounded  tom.  covered  mor- 

nay  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
VValdimir,    Cold,    po.    covered    w.    chaud-froid    w.    may- 
onnaise sa.  on  asp.  tips  and  truf.  salad,  jelly  around. 
Waldorf,   Po.   on   can,   fil.   w.    foi-g.   large   mu.    on   top, 

covered  mad.  sa.  w.  truf. 
Waleska,  Om.  fil,  lobster  and  truf  sal.  truf.  sa.  w.  caviar. 
V/ashington,  Po.  on  fried  sliced  tom.  and  green  peppers, 

covered  tom.  sa. 
Weyier,    Po.   on   border   Duchesse   pot.   fil.   w.   mu.     pu. 

cream  sa.  browned  in  oven. 
Wilna,  Po.  on  caviar  can.  anchovies  sa. 

York,   Hard    stuf   w.   yolk,    ham,    truf,   breaded   English 
style  and  fried  on  can.  w.  ham,  tom.  sa.  around. 

Yorkshire,  Fried  on  slice  of  ham,  tom.  sa. 

Yvette,  Po.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  crawfish  and  asp.  tips  sal. 
Nantua  sa.  w.  truf. 

Yvonne,  Mollet    (soft)    on  fiat  chestnut  croq.,   Supreme 
sa.  w.  foi-g.  around. 

Zaza,  Cooked  in  sweet  peppers,  cold  on  ch.  salad,  jelly. 
Zingara,  Po.  or  fried  in  oil,  ham  can.  zingara  sa. 
Zurlo,  Po.  on  flat  cro.  Duch-esse  pot,  cream  sa.  w.  truf. 

—  61  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Pain,  Of  chicken,  game,  fish,  etc.  (See  fo-meat)  accord- 
ing to  the  soup,  or  French  bread. 

Pancake^  Or  crepes  w.  out  sugar,  shredded,  stuffed, 
cul    acocrding  to  the  soup. 

Peluche  or  Chervil,  Only  leaves  of  chervil  used. 

Profiterols,  Small  cream  puff  paste,  baked,  stuf,  w.  ch. 
or  game  pure  or  veg.  according  to  the  soup. 

Quenelle,  Ch.  game,  meat,  fo-meat,  round,  long,  chenille. 

Souffle,    (See   Croutons)    According  to  the  soup. 

Spaetzel,  Suabian  style,  flour  and  egg  (See  farinaceous). 

Tim  bale,   (Same  as  Pain.) 

Turtle  Herb,  Use  for  green  turtle,  basil,  majoram, 
mint,  fennel,  rosemary,  sage,  thym,  burned  lettuce. 

Varsovienne,  Biscotte  w.  savarin  paste  cut  in  lozenges. 

Zwieback  or  Biscotte,  Special  bread,  sliced  brown  in 
oven  on  both  sides.   (See  farinaceous.) 

SOUP  THICK  AND  CLEAR 

Abbreviations:  Asp.  asparagus;  ch.  chicken;  chif. 
chiffonade;  cl.  clear;  con.  consomme;  cru.  crust;  ore. 
cream;  gar.  garnishing;  jul.  julienne;  foi-g.  foie-gras; 
mu.  mushrooms;  quen.  quenelle;  sou.  souffle;  po.  pot- 
age;  pot.  potatoes;  stuf,  stuffed;  th.  thick;  torn,  tom- 
atoes; truf.  truffles;   veg.  vegetable;   w.  with. 

A.bd  el   Kader,  Ch.  gar.  w.  timbale  of  game,  small  balls 

of  carrots,  turnips  and  green  peas. 
Adelina,  Ch.  gar.  w.  ch.  que.  small  balls  of  carrots,  Royal 

of  chestnuts,  green  peas. 
Agnes  Sorel,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  mu.  gar.  w.  jul.  of  ch.  tongue 

and  mu. 
Ailerons,  Ch.  gar.  w.  boneless  ch.  wings  stuf.  and  sliced. 
Albion,  Ch.  gar.  w.  jul.  of  ch.  truf.  que.,  foi-g.,  asp.  tips. 
Alenois,  Cre.  of  water-cress  gar.  w.  croutons,  souffles. 
Alexandre,  Cl.  ch.  w.  tapioca  gar  w.  ch.  quenelles,  jul. 

of  ch.  chiffonades  of  lettuce. 
Alexis,  Cre.  of  crawfish  and  lobster,  gar.  w.  lobster  cut 

in  dice  and  stuf,  crawfish  head. 
Algerienne,  Th.  sweet  pot.  puree  gar.  w.  jul.  of  pistachio 

and  croutons  souffle.  ^ 

A    I'Allemande,   Soup  w.   leeks,   celery,   pot.,   onions,   all 
sliced,  fresh  noodles,  cooked  in  the  soup. 

—  64  — 


SOUPS 

Alliance,  Cli.   gar.   w.   fancy  veg.  and  for-meat  quenelle 

or  timbales,  3  different  colors. 
Aisacienne,    Ch.   gar.   w.   foi-g.    quen.,   fresh   choucroute, 

potatoes   gnoquis.    (See   gnoqiiis   farinaceous.) 
Amazone,   Cre.   of  ch.  and  alligator  pears,  gar.  w.  rice 

and  crust  sou. 
Ambassadeur,    Pu.   of  fresh   green   peas   w.   sorrel   chif. 

and  rice  w.  liaison. 
Ambassadrice,   Ch.   gar.   w.   royal   of  torn,   of   truf,   and 

green  peas,  jul.  of  ch.  and  mu. 
Americain,    Half   cream    of   lobster   and   half    cream    of 

tom.  gar.  w.  tapioca  pearls  and  lobster  In  dice. 
Ancienne,  Ancient  style.  A  famous  French  home  soup, 

w.    beef,   vegetables   and   chicken,     cooked     slowly 
Andaiouse,  Th.  ere,  of  green  corn  and  torn.  gar.  w.  cru. 

souf.  or  con.  tapioca  gar.  w.  royal  of  tom,  jul.  of  ham, 

cucumber  balls  and  rice. 
Angevin,    Ch.    gar.    w.    boneless    stuf.    turkey    wing    tip 

sliced  and  stuf.  pancake  cut  25  cent  size. 
AntoneUi,   Gar.   w.   emptied  truf.   fil.   w.   f.-gras   pu.   and 

cock's  kidneys  and  combs,  stars  of  noodle  paste. 
Arcadienne,  Th.  cream  half  oatmeal,  half  celery,  gar.  w. 

cru.  souf. 
Ardenaise,  Puree  of  thrush  or  game,  gar.  w.  jul.  of  game 

and  bar-le-duc  currant. 
Argenteuil,  All  soups  made  w.  asparagus  th.  or  cl.  gar. 

w.  asp.  tips. 
Argentine,  Con  tapioca,  gar.  w.  jul.  of  lettuce  and  grated 

cocoanut. 
Arlequin,  Cl.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  divers  colors,  small  carrots 

balls  and  asp.  tips. 
Aurore,  Th.  tom.  pu.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  ch.  jul. 
Bag  rati  on,  Th.  veloute  of  fish   (See  sauce  veloute,  gar. 

^v.  filet  of  sole,  bits  of  macaroni  and  fish  quenelles. 

w.  crawfish  butter  or  ch.  and  veal  veloute  gar.  w.  jul. 

of  ch.  and  macaroni. 
Baltimore,    (See  fish  chowder)    w.  ere.  and  soda  crackers. 
Balvet,  Pu.  of  fresh  green  peas,  gar.  w.  jul.  of  vegetables 
Balzac,  Cl.  gar.  w.  ch.  timbales,  shrimps  in  dice,  green 

peas,   smal  turnip  balls. 
Bamia,  Gornbo  or  okra  cl.  w.  stuf.  okra  or  choped  onions 

—  65  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

gr.  pepper,  ham,  Ch.  stock,  torn,  in  dice;   Rice,  okra. 
Ban vi lie,  Th.  thin  cream  of  vege.  gar.  w.  royal  of  chest- 
nuts and  ordinary  royal,  rice. 
Baratansky,   Ch.   gar.  w.   stuf.   pancake   anchovies,   mu., 

fi-herb   and   mixed   w.    ch.   fo-meat   poached,     cut     in 

lozenge.     Beef  marrow   quenelles. 
Batavinia,   Russian    soup    cold,    pu.    of   spinach    gar.    w. 

shredded   sorrel   and   beet   leaves,     white   wine,     cuc- 
umbers in  dice  fi-herbs. 
Bavarois,  Th.  pu.  of  lentils  sliced  cooked  sausage. 
iBearnaise, Popular  soup  from  southern  France, made  w. 

smothered  vege.  w.  preserved  goose  and  salt  pork  in 

casserole,  baked  or  Poule  au  Pot  Henri  IV 
Bearnaise,   CI.    gar.   w.    ch.    quen.   w.   truf.    ch.   quen.   w. 

fi-herbs,   chenille   shape. 
Beaucaire,  Soup  w.  cabbage,  celery,  leeks,  carrots,  gar. 

w.  Jul.  of  ch.  gizzard  and  liver,  barley,  grated  cheese. 
Beaufort,   Ch.   gar.   game   quen.   crawfish   quen.   Jul.     of 

game  or  cream  of  lobster,  same  gar. 
Beauharnais,  Ch.  gar.  w.  duck  cut  in  dice,  royal  of  peas, 

pearl  of  barley. 
Beaumont,   Ch.   gar.    w.    boneless    stuf.   ch.   wing   sliced, 

and  fancy  mixed  vegetable. 
Beauvillier,    CI.    gar.   w.    decorated    ch.    quen.    asp.    tips. 

small  mu.  heads. 
Beaf  tea,  Raw  chopped  lean  beef  meat,  boiled  in  special 

•bottle,   cooked   from   5   to   6   hours,   strained   or   quick 

beef  tea  use  stock  and   chopped   beef,   mixed   w.   one 

egg  cooked    i^   hour;    strain. 
Behague,  CI.  gar.  poached  egg,  chif.  w.  lettuce  savarin 

crust. 
iBelle  Fermiere,  CI.  gar.  w.  cabbage  jul.  string  beans  and 

Italian  paste. 
Belle  Gabrielle,  CI.  ch.  w.  liaison  gar.  ch.  mousseline  fo- 
mcat  and  crawfish  tails. 
Bellevue,    Half    ch.    broth,    half    clam    broth,      whipped 

cream  on  top. 
Benevolent,    CI.    con.   tomate    gar.    w.   macaroni,    tongue 

and  beef  palate  in  jul. 
Bennett,  CI.  rich  pot-au-feu  w.   ch.  vege.   and  meat  cut 

in  big  dice  w.  lentils,  peas  and  rice. 

—  66  — 


SOUPS 

Benoiton,  Th.  half  pu.  of  vege.  half  green  peas  pu.  gar. 

w.  string  beans,  asp.  tips,  rice,  chervil. 
Berchoux,   Th.   cream  of  quail   gar.   royal   of  chestnuts, 

Jul.  of  quail,  truf  and  mu. 
Bercy,  Th.  stock  of  fish  w.  liaison  gar.  w.  stuf.  gudgeon 

or  whitebait,  knob  celery  balls. 
Bergere,  CI.  gar.  w.  green  peas,  asp.  tips,  field  mu.  Jul. 

of  spinach,  liaison,  dry  shredded  french  bread. 
Berny,  CI.  gar.  w.  pot.  quen.  mixed  w.  chopped  almonds 

and  truf.  chervil. 
Berry,  CI.  gar.  w.  soft  eggs,  royal  of  asp.  carrots  and 

turnips  ,cut  in  lozenges. 
Biere,  Beer  soup,  divers  style  w.  sugar,  cinnamon  cream, 

seasoning  .toasted  thin  bread. 
Bigos    Polish  soup  w.  vege,  ham    partridge,  sausage. 
Bismarck,   Th.  half  bisque   of  crawfish  and  half  mock 

turtle,  gar.  according. 
Bisque,  Made  only  w,  crawfish  (See  Ecrevisse.) 

NOTE — On  every  bill  of  fare  there  is  Bisque  of  torn., 
clams,  lobster,  oysters,  etc.  which  is  nothing  but 
cream   of   shellfish. 

Bissacia,  CI.  gar.   w.   poached  egg,   savarin   crust. 
Blanc-Manger,   Blanc-mange  cl.   gar.   royal  of  ch.  w.  al- 
monds, green  peas  chervil. 
Blaze,  Th.  pu.  of  game  w.  foi-g.  pu.  gar.  jul.  of  game  and 

truf. 
Boeuf,  Beef  broth  cl.  or  th.  stock  of  beef  bouillon,  etc. 

divers  styles. 
Bohemienne,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  foi-g.  and  profiteroles 

fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  rice. 
Boieldieu,  Cl.  gar.  w.  large  quen.  fil.  w.  3  different  kinds 

of  pu.  and  ch.  in  dice. 
Bolivar,  Th.  turtle  stock  w.   tom.  pu.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen. 

turtle  cut  in  dice,  small  balls  of  carrots. 
Bolivienne,   Th.   tapioca   gar.   w.   lamb,   veal,  ham,   tom. 

cut  in  dice. 
Bonne  femme,  Th.  soup  w.  pot.  leeks,  half  stock,  half 

milk,  sliced  dry  french  bread. 
Bonvalet,  Th.   white   beans   pu.   gar.   w.  macedoine  and 

royal  of  carrots. 

—  67  — 


GANCEL'S      C  ULINAK  Y  ^-EN  C  Y  C  LO  PEDI  A 

Borely,  Th.  ere.  of  fish  gar.  w.  mussels  and  fish  quen. 

Bortsch,  Polish  soup  made  w.  beef  and  duck,  jul.  of  vege, 

mil.  feilnel,  all  cooked  cold  meats  cut  in  dice;  sliced 

sausage,   last   moment   beet   juice,    serve    sour   cream 

■   separately.     Divers  styles.  il  i'  ,v''~ 

Bouchere,  Strong  small  Marmite  strained  gar. '#;"■  small 
stuf.  cabbage,  sliced  marrow,  chives. 

Bouillabaise,  A  provencal  dish  from  iiarseilles  scup  and 
fish  w.  saffron,  choose  5  or -6  different  varieties  of 
fish,  fried  in  olive  oil,  chopped  onions  and  leeks, 
'  7noisten  w.  white  wine,  water,  seasoned  salt,  pepper, 
safron,  pounded  torn.,  garlic,  parsley,  cooked  acr.ording 
to  the  fish  10  or  20  minutes,  thickened  w.  butter  and 
flour  kneaded,  serve  bouillon  and  fish  separately  w. 
sliced  toasted  bread  rubbed  w.  garlic.  —  (Note)  -Add 
lobster,  mussels  and  clams  if  possible.  ;  .  ;..5  a 

BoulMon,  French  term  for  broth  of  beef,  veal,  mutton, 
chicken,  fish,  etc.  gar.  w.  vege,  and  aroraat.  for  in- 
valids, no  salt  or  pepper. 

Bouquetiere,  Gl.  gar.  w.  fancy  shaped  new  vegetables. 

Bourbon,  CI.  gar.  w.  Japanese  pearls  tapioca,  ch.  quen. 
medailion.  lily  shape,  chervil. 

Bourdaloue,  CI.  gar.  w.  quenelle  or  ch.  royal  made  of  4 
different  colors.  ''-i   ,ogr-K!vl-otiBia 

Bourgeoise,  Soup  family  style.  Pot-au^feu.  Petite" i3i!ar- 
mite,  etc.  "--'9 

Brabangonne  (Belgium  soup.  Farmer  style),  W.  jul.  of 
endives  and  biscotte  of  bruxelles.  t; 

Bragance,  Rich  con.  gar.  w.  royal  of  cli.  green  peas,  rice. 

Bresilien,  CI.  farmer  style  w.  black  beans,  torn,  cut  ia 
dice,  rice.  i 

Bressoise,  Th.  pumpkin  pu.  w;  Italian  paste  and  critstr' 

Brestoise,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w.  shrimps  and  fish  quen. 

Bretcnne,  Th.  white  beans  pu.  w.  tom.  gar.  w.  jui.  of 
leeks  and  celery  in  dices,  or  cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w. 
scallops  in  dice  and  lobster  quen.  ^^ 

Briand,  Ci.  con.  w.  ch.  veal,  ham,  when  cooked  cut  in 
dice,  chervil.  "-'^ 

Brieux,  CI.  gar.  w.  Japanese  pearl  tapioca,  royal  of  ch. 
pearls  of  truf.  "^^' 

Bruxellcise,    Cre.    of   Bruxelles    sprout   w.   crust    souf. 

—  68  — 


SOUPS  30'^  A, « 

Bucheron,   Vege.    soup   w.    salt   pork   and   sliced  .bread, 

very  thick.  -jifl^i^D 

Busega,   Italian  style,  soup  all  vege.  cut  in  jul.  w,  ch. 

liver,  tripe,  rice  or  spaghetti,  grated  parmesan  cheese. 
Calabrai,  Pu.  of  white  beans  w.  sorrel  chiffonade,  rice. 
Camaro,  Brazilian  soup.  Pot  au  feu  \v.  chicken  and  rice. 
Cambaceresv  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  crawfish  coulis  gar.  w.  large 

ch.  quen.  fil.  w,  pigeon  sal. 
Cambise,   CI.   gar.   w.   half  eggs  stuf.   w.   ch.  pu.  and  fi- 

herb  or  fish  con.   gar.   w.   half   eggs   stuf.  oyster  pu. 

and  fi-herb. 
Cambridge,  Cre.  of  lobster,  gar,  fish  quen,  jul.  of  lobster. 
Camelia,   Cre.   of  ch.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w..ju.  o£ch.  and 

pink  ch.  quen.  iito'Kj.w  .uKi^  aiu- 

Camerani,  Rich  soup,  vege.  soup  in  jul.  w.  ch.  liver  and 

bits  of  macaroni. 
Cancale,  CI.  fish  stock  gar.  w.  fish  quen,  jul.  of  sole  and 

oyster  nuts. 
Can i no,  CI.  gar.  w.  small  stick  made  in  cream  puff  paste 
w.  Swiss  cheese,  cut  in  1  inch  stick  cooked  in  con.  grated 

cheese  separately. 
Capucine,  Cre.  of  spinach  and  ch.  gar.  w.  profiterole  fil. 

w.  ch.  pu. 
Cardinal,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w.  lobster  quen.  or  in  dice, 

cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn,  small  carrot  balls,  rice,  chervil. 
Careme,  Cl.  gar.  w.  fancy  vege,  ch.  in  dice,  pot.  quen, 

chervil. 
Carlsbad,  Cl.  gar.  w.  jul.  ch.  tongue,  cabbage,  pancake 

w.  fi-herb  in  lozenges,  chervil. 
Carmelite  Th.  cre.  of  fish  gar.  royal  of  fish,  rice, 
Carmen,  Cl.  w.  t'om.  pu.  gar.  w.  sweet  peppers,  tom.  cut 

in  dice,  rice,  chervil. 
Caroline,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  w.  almond  milk,  ch.  in 

dice   and    rice,   or   cre,   of   ch.   w.    mixed   vege,   sweet 

peppers,  rice,  chervil. 
Castellane,  Cre.  of  ga.me  gar.  w.  royal  chestnuts,  jul.  of 

game. 
Catherine,  Cre.  of  fish  gar.  w.  shrimps  and  green  peas. 
Cauchoise,  Soup  of  veg.  w.  lamb  and  pork  in  dice. 
Ceiebrine,   Cre.  of  calf's,  brain,  gar.  optional.--' 
Celery,  Cream  of  celery  w.  crust  souf.  lull  ,ad 

—  69  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Ceiestine,  CI.  gar.  w.  stuf.  pancake  cut  25c  size. 

Cerealls,  All  ere.  pu.  soup  made  w.  cereals. 

Cerises,   Soup  w.   pu.  of  cherries,    wine     and     aromats 

thicken  w.  cornstarch,  sugar  if  desired,  gar.  w.  pitted 

cherries. 
Chabrillan,  Cream  of  ch.  w.  tom.  gar.  w.   ch.   quen.  w. 

taragon  and  vermicelli. 
Champenoise,  Cre.  of  cauliflower  and  art.  gar.  w.  carrots 

and  celery  in  dice  or  pot.  pu.  and  celery. 
Champignon,  Cre.  of  mushrooms  gar.  w.  crust  souf. 
Chanceliere,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  art.  Jul.  of  ch.   mu.  truf, 

green  peas,  chervil. 
Chantilly,  Cre.  of  fresh  green  peas  w.  mint  and  green 

onions  gar.  w.  profiterols  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  and  cream. 
Charlotte,    Pu.    of   pot,    leeks    and    watercress,    gar.    w. 

crust. 
Charmel,  CI.  gar.  w.  royals  of  ch.  truf  and  foi-g.  Jul.  of 

mu. 
Charolais,    CI.   petite    marmite    w.   ox-joint,    small    stuf. 

cabbage  and  small  glazed  onions. 
Charteuse,  CI.  con.  w.  farina,  gar.  w.  ravioli,  cheese. 
Chasseur,  Th.  pu.  of  game,  gar.  w.  juL  of  game  and  mu. 

profiterols  balls  fil.  w.  game  pu. 
Chasseresse,  Pur.  of  game  gar.  w.  royal  of  game  and  art. 

filet  of  game  in  dice. 
Chatelaine,  Cream   of  green  peas,   gar.   w.   royal  of  ch. 

blood  and  royal  of  peas,  or  cl.  ch.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w. 

royal  chestnuts  w.  Soubise,  ch.  quen.,  mu.  in  dice, 
Chatillon,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  tom.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  w.  tar- 
agon and  vermicelli. 
Cherville,  Cream  of  rabbit  gar,  w.  jul.  of  rabbit  mu.  and 

truf. 
Chevreuse,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  art.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  jul. 
of  ch.  and  truf,  chervil. 
Chevriere,  Pu.  of  pot,  sorrel  chif.  and  lettuce  gar.  w.  pot. 

in  dice  saute  w,  butter,  chervil. 
Chicago,  Pu.  of  tom.  w.  cre,  of  lobster  gar.  w.  barley 

and  lobster  cut  in  dice  and  rice. 
Chicken  Broth,  Cl.  stock  of  ch.  only  w.  ch.  dice  and  rice. 
Chiffonade,  Cl.   gar.  w.   shredded  sorrel  lettuce  and  fi- 

herbs,  liaison  w.  cre.,  sliced  fresh  bread. 

—  70  — 


SOUPS  ■ ' 

Choiseul,  CI.  gar.  w.  ordinary  royal  of  ch.  asp.  tips  cher- 
vil. 

Choisy,  Cre.  of  chicory  or  lettuce  gar.  w.  crust  souf. 

Chowder,  Clam  chowder  soup,  chopped  salt  pork,  onions, 
leeks,  celery,  green  peppers,  smothered  w.  butter, 
cooked  clams  chopped,  add  juice,  and  pot,  torn,  in 
dice,  thyme  leaf,  highly  seasoned,  in  Manhattan  or 
Coney  Island  style.  Fish  chowder  the  same  gar.  or  Bal- 
timore, no  tom.,  add  w.  cream.  Canadienne  w,  had- 
dock, white  stock,  no  tom.  Family  style,  thickened  w. 

cream  sauce  and  cream,  no  tom.   (Soda  crackers). 

Cincinnati,  CI.  gar.  w.  carrots  ,turnips,  pot.  in  balls, 
small  lima  beans,  profiterols  fil.  ch.  pu. 

Cleremont,  Cre.  of  white  beans  w.  chestnuts  and  onions, 
gar.  bread  crust. 

Clovisses  or  Clams,  Clam  broth,  cooked  w.  celery 
seasoned,  add  water.  Divers  style. 

Cocky-Lecky,  CI.  strong  soup  of  ch.  and  veal  w.  jul.  of 
celery  and  leeks,  served  with  prunes  separately. 

Colbert,  CI.  gar.  w.  fancy  vege  and  poached  eggs  chervil. 

Colombine,  CI.  ch.  and  pigeon  w.  vege.  in  pearl  shape, 
gar.  w.  poached  pigeon  eggs,  jul.  of  pigeon  chervil. 

Columbus,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen,  royal  of  tom.  cucumber 
balls,  chervil. 

Compiegne,  Pu.  of  white  beans,  sorrel  chif.  chervil. 

Comtesse,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  green  asp.  gar.  w.  royal  of 
asp.  tips,  small  ch.  quen. 

Comus,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  ham,  tongue,  cut  in  dice,  profit- 
eroles  fil.  w,  foi-gras. 

Conde,  Pu.  of  red  beans  gar.  w.  bread  crust. 

Condorcet,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  game  ravioli  w.  foi-g. 

Con  ley,  CI.  mutton  broth  w.  lettuce  chifo,  and  green- 
peas. 

Consomme,  CI.  all  clear  rich  bouillon,  divers  gar.  (See 
the  article  heading  in  the  soup.)  Beef  ch.  game,  fish, 
very  strong  and  clear,  served  cold  or  hot. 

Conti,  Pu.  of  lentils  gar.  w,  fried  bread  crust. 

Cormeille,  Pu.  of  pot.  and  string  beans  w.  milk.  gar.  w, 
lozenges  of  string  beans,   chervil. 

Corneille,  Cre.  of  lettuce  w.  tapioca. 

—  71  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Coquillage,  All  cream  of  shellfish,  gar.  according  to  ere. 
Cosidos,  Spanish  soup,,  Divers  style.  (Pot-au-feu). 
Courbet,   Cre.  of  lobster,   gar.   w.   fish   quen.   lobster   in 

dice  and  very  small  croquettes  of  crab. 
Cous-couse,    Kous-kous   Arabian    soup,    mutton   soup    w. 

Indian  meal  paste. 
Crabe,   Crabs,  divers  style,   cre.  gombo,   etc.   for  bisque 

(See  Ecrevisses.) 
Crecy,  Th.  pu.  of  french  carrots  very  red  gar.  w,  royal 

of  carrots  or  balls,  chervil. 
Creme,    Cream,    th.   soup   w.    ch.   game,   vegetable,   fish, 

shellfish,  etc.  gar.  according  to  the  soup. 
Creole,  CI.  ch.  soup,  west  Indian  style,  cut  in  dice,  onions 

green  pepper,  ham,  celery,  moisten,  add  torn,  rice  and 

ch.   in  dice,  highly   seasoned;    also     w.     okra,     crab, 

shrimps,  according  to  the  country. 
Cressonniere,    Water-cress,    cream,    gar.    \v.    crust   souf. 
Crevettes,  Shrimps,  cre.  of  shrimps,  gar.  w.  shrimps. 
Croute-au-Pot,  French  soup.  Must  be  made  in  an  earthen 

pot,  add  vegetables  cooked  6  hours,  large  bread  crust. 

(Chicken   if   desired). 
Cultivateup,   (Farmer  style),  CI.  vege.  cut  in  big  dice  w. 

sliced  salt  pork,  french  bread. 
Cussy,  CI.  game  gar.  w.  royal  game  and  chestnuts,  juL 

of  game  and  truf. 
Cutting,  Cre.  of  mussels,  gar.  w.  oysters  and  shrimps. 
Cyrano,  CI.  ch.  gar.  w.  small  pearl  quen.  of  duck  and  ch. 

grated  cheese  separately. 
Czar,  Pu.  of  grouse  and  chestnuts,  thicken  w.  foi-gra.  pu. 

gar.  w.  Jul.  of  grouse. 
Czarina,  CI.  ch.  w.  essence  of  fennel  and  visigha.  (SpinaP 

marrow  of  sturgeons). 
Dame  Blanche,  CI.  ch.  gar.  w.  royal  almonds,  Jul.  of  ch. 

and  white  of  eggs. 
Dandigne,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  and  ham,  cooked  to- 
gether and  sliced,  lobster,  quen,  celery  in  dice. 
D'Anjou,  CI.  gar.  w.  game  quen.  asp.  tips,  rice. 
Danoise,    (Danish)    pu.   of  duck,   gar.   jul.   of  duck   and 

mus. 
Darblay,  Pu.  of  pot.  w.  cream  gar.  w.  jul.  of  vege.  cut 

very  thin. 


SOUPS 

D'Arernberg,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  asp.  pearls  of  carrots, 

turnips,  truf.  green  peas,  chervil. 
D'Argout,  CI.  gar.  w.  pancake,  stuff  w.  anchovies,  bread 
in  crescents  stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  and  poached. 
D'Artois,  Th.  pu.  of  white  beans  and  ch.  gar.  w.   fine 

ordinary  Jul.  chervil.  .o^n-.r}  .w   .ii>>;   A'-j  .ihiQWjQ 

D'Assas,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  bairr^ts  andstMf.  lettuce. 
D'Aumale,  CI.  gar.  w.  foi-g.  quen.  and  asp.  tips. 
Daumont,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  beef  palate  and  truf 

in  Jul.  profiteroles  fil.  w.  foi-g. 
Delavarenne,   CI.   gar.   w.    royal   ordinary,    ch.    in     dice, 

tongue  in  Jul.  cucumber  balls,  rice  w.  saffron. 
Delavergne,  CI.  gar.  w.  soft  eggs  (moUet)   asp.  tips,  or- 
dinary royal. 
Desnidoff,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen,  w.  fi-herb,  carrots,  turnips 

pearls  of  truf.  peas,  chervil. 
Derby,  Ore.  of  ch.  and  soubi.s,e  w.  curry,  gar.  w.  foi-g. 

quen.  pearls  of  truf,  rice.,   j,.,- 
D'Estaing,  Cre.  of  game  w.  chestnuts  gar.  w.  small  game 

quen.   and  royal  of  chestnuts  or  bisque   of   crawfish 

gar.  fish  quen  and  crawfish. 
Deslignac,  CI.  gar.  royal  ordinary,  crawfish  quen.  green 

peas,  chervil. 
Diablotin,     All.  con.     gar,  w.  round     bread     stuffed  w. 

cheese  and/ cayenne  pepper. 
Diane,  Cre.  of  game  gar.  w.  royal  of  game,  white  egg 

and  truf.  crescent  shape. 
Dieppoise,     Cre.  of  fish  gar.  w.   shrimps  and  mussels, 

remove  the  beard. 
Dijonnaise,   CI.   gar.   w.   Japanese   pearl   tapioca,    game, 

quen.  nonette  shape  and  Jul.  of  tongue. 
Diplomate,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen,  and  crawfish,  royal  of 

ch.  truf,  in  jul. 
Divette,   CI.   gar.  w.   ch.   quen,   in  medallion   shape   and 

decorated,  small  pink  quen.  pearls  of  truf. 
Dolgorousky,    CI.    gar.    w.    quen.    and   ham    quen.    small 

glazed  onions,  barley,  ham  in  dice. 
Doria,     CI.   gar.  w.   ch.   quen.   cheville,   cucumber  balls, 

crust  souf.  chervil. 
D'Orsay,  CI.  gar.  w.  soft  eggs  (mollet) crawfish  quen.  and 

asp.  tips. 

—  73  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

D'Orleans,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  of  3  colors,  green  peas, 

chervil. 
Dosmont,  Pu.  of  carrots,  celery,  onions,  torn,  mixed,  gar. 

small  ch.  quen.  w.  spinach. 
Double,  CI.  consomme  double,  extra  strong,  divers  gar. 
Douglas,  CI.  gar.  w.  celery,  mu.  in  jul.  sweetbreads  in 

dice,  asp.  tips,   chervil. 
Doyen,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas  and  ch.  gar.  w.  small  ch.  quen. 

and  green  peas. 
Dubarry,   Gre,  of  ch.   and   cauliflower     gar.     w.     small 

bouquet  of  cauliflower  and  ch.  in  dice  or  cl.   gar.  w 

fancy  vege.  bouquet  of  cauliflower,  duck  in  jul.  chervil. 
Dubellay,  Cre.  of  lettuce  w.  tapioca,  gar.  w.  ch.  quen  and 

green  peas. 
Dubeloy,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  and  ch.  quen,  asp,  tips, 

chervil. 
Dubourg,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  rice  chervil. 
Duchesse,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  green  asp.  gar.  w.  ch.  royal 

and  green  asp.  tips. 
Ducoudray,  Cl.  of  game,  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  and  stuf.  pan- 
cake w.  ch.  fo-meat  in  lozenges. 
Duffer! n,   Cre.    of   ch.   and   barley,   gar.   w.   ch.   in     dice 

crust  souf. 
Dumesnil,  Pot  au  feu  in  small  marmite  w.  long  marrow 

bone,  chervil. 
Durand,  Cre.   of  lobster  w.   sliced  lobster  and  shrimps. 
Duse,  Cl.  gar.  w.  ch,  quen.  tortellini,  grated  cheese. 

Ecossaise,  Scotch  soup  w.  mutton  vege.  cut  fine  and 
barley,  cl.  or  th.  white  or  brown. 

Ecrevisses  (Crawfish  bisque),  French  term,  used  only 
for  potage  a  la  bisque,  crawfish  cooked  w.  white  wine 
brandy  and  aromatics,  take  the  tail  out  of  the  shell; 
after  peeling  pound  the  shell  and  thicken  w.  cooked 
rice  of  veloute  sa.  strained,  highly  seasoned,  gar.  w. 
tails  and  stuf.  crawfish  heads. 

Egyptlenne,  Cl.  w.  saffron  gar.  w.  okra,  egg-plant,  sweet 
peppers  in  dice,  rice. 

Elisa,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  sorrel  chifo,  chervil. 

Emmanuel,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  torn.  ch.  jul.  spaghetti, 
grated  cheese. 

—  74  — 


SOUPS 

Endives,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  endives,  gar.  w.  crust  souf. 

Ephemere,  CI.  gar.  of  vege.,  pearl  size  w.  ephemere. 

Epicurien,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  and  celery,  ch.  jul. 
pearls  of  truf.  and  poached  eggs. 

Esau,  Pur.  of  lentils  gar.  w.  bread  crust. 

Esterel,  Pu.  of  pumpkin  and  white  beans  w,  vermicelli. 

Excelsior,  Ci-e.  of  asp.  and  barley,  gar.  w,  asp.  tips  and 
barley  or  cl.  rich  conso.  gar.  w.  ch.  tongue  truf,  saus- 
age, fo-meat,  cut  in  shape  10  cents,  truf.  and  pist- 
achio, the  same  cons.,  w.  tomato  hot  or  cold  in  jelly. 

Fanchette,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  asp.  gar.  w.  stuf  lettuce, 
rolled,  when  cooked  diced,  green  peas,  chervil. 

Fanchonnette,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  stuf  pan- 
cake w.  ch.  fo-meat  and  truf,  cut  in  jul. 

Faubonne,  Pu.  of  white  beans  w.  jul.  of  leeks. 

Favori,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  asp.  gar.  w.  sorrel  chifo.  and 
lettuce,  asp.  tips. 

Favorite,  Cl.  w.  ch.  gar.  art.  mus.  in  jul.  asp.  tips  small 
pot,  ball,  chervil. 

Fermiere,  Cl.  Farmer  style  w.  sliced  vege.,  smothered. 

Fish  chowder,   (See  Chowder)   Cl.  or  th.  w.  fish. 

Flamande,  Cl.  w.  celery  cut  in  dice,  small  sausage  balls 
poached  in  soup,  and  rice. 

Fleury,  Cl.  gar.  w.  stars  of  ch.  fo-meat  w.  green  peas  in 
center. 

Florence   Cl.  gar.  w.  vermicelli   (Neige  de  Florence) 

Florentine,  Cre.  or  cl.  w.  ch.  gar.  w.  long  quen  of  ch. 
spinach,  ham,  fo-meat,  green  peas  or  asp.  tips. 

Floreal,  Cl.  gar.  w.  flowers  made  of  carrots  and  turnips, 
asp.  tips,  gi-een  quen  of  ch.  fo-meat  leaf  shaped,  cher- 
vil. 

Fontange,   Cre.   of  fresh  peas  w.   sorrel  chiffonade  and 

liaison.  f^ssO 

Francatelli,   Cl.    of  ch.   gar.   w.   royal   of  ch.   foi-g.   quen 

cock's  combs  and  kidneys. 
Francillon,  Cl.  gar.  w.  small  crust  made  in  ch.  fo-meat 

round   shape  w.  poached  egg  inside. 
Franc-Comtois,  Clear  Fermiere  style  w.  sorrel  chifo.  and 

vermicelli  chervil. 

—  75  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Franklin,   CI.   gar.   w.   royal  of  vege.,  carrot  and  turnip 

balls,  chervil.  ^ 

Freneuse,  Cre.  or  pu.  of  turnips  w.  crust  souf.  ^ 

Fro  id    (Cold)    consonime   chilled   or   in   jelly   or    speciat 

Russian  soup. 
Fromentine,   Cre.   of  ch.   and  wheat  or     cereals, .    s6ii£ 

crust. 
Gabrielle   or   Gaby,    CI.    ga;r.'w,'  ch.   moiusseline   fo-meat 

and  crawfish  tail. 
Gambetta,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas,  string  beans  and  spinach, 

gar.  w.  peas  and  water-cress,  chervil. 
Garbure,  CI.  and  th.  divers  soup  w.  vege.  in  pu.  or  sliced 

in   earthen   pot,     gratin,     onions,      cabbage,      lettuce, 

bearnaise,  etc. 
Garibaldi,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal,  of.tpm,,  and  spinach,  .ph,  in 

dice  and  macaroni,  cheese,.;    .,;,,:',,./-,,;    ,.;;-)   ^.-.ov^l 
Gaul  CIS,   CI.   of  ch.   gar.  w.   cock's   combs   and  kidneys, 

small  mousse  of  ham  dec.  w^.  a  cock  made  w.  white 

of  eggs,  ch.  quen,  stuf.  w.  foi-g.  pu. 
Garfield,  CI.  gar.  av.   royal  of  tom.  spinach  and  ch.  bit 

of  macaroni. 
Gelee  CI.  in  jelly,  all  cons,  served  in  jelly. 
Gentilhomme,  Pu.  of  game  and  lentils,  game  quen,  pearl 

of  truf. 
Germain  (See  Allemande.) 
Germaine,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  fresh  peas,  vege.  in  dice 

ch.  quen.  force  meat  in  chenille  shape,  chervil. 
Germinal,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  w.  taragon  and  chervil, 

asp.   tips,   peas,   string  beans. 
Germiny,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas  w.  sorrel  chifo,  thi.  w.  liaison, 

dry  shredded  french  bread. 
Gervals,    Cre.    of   ch.    and    barley   gar.    w.    sweetbreads, 

green  peas,  asp.  tips  and  string  beans,  chervil. 
Gese      (Chickling  vetch),    cooked   tuberous,   add    cream 

and  milk,  bread  crust. 
George   Sand,  CI.  of  fish  gar.  w.  fish  quen  mousseline, 

crawfish  tails,  milt,  carp. 
Georgette,  Pu.  of  carrots  and  tom.  tapioca  pearls  gar.  w. 

vege.  pearls,  chervil. 
Gibier,  CI.  or  th.  all.  soups  made  w.  game. 

—  76  — 


SOUPS 

Giblet,  Irish  style,  white  stock  w.  vege.  in  dice  aud  bar- 
ley cl.  or  th.  german  style,  white  stock,  noodles, 
onions,  pot.  celery  in  dice  cl.  or  thick  ,cl.  A^ege,  ,1^11 
brunoise,  French  style,  same  th.  English  style. 

Girondin,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ham  and  tom.  ju.  of  red 
carrots  only. 

Combo,  Ch.  gombo,  okra  or  bamia  (See  Bamia). 

Gounod,  Pu.  of  dry  peas  and  pigeons,  filet  of. .'jpi^epn 
in  dice.  ,'.  'V',',rV. 

Gourmet,  Cl.  gar.  w.  small  sausage  of  foi-g.'  ctL/^gkrae 
sliced,  Jul.  of  truf.  ch.  tongue  and  pistachio'. 

Grand'mere,  Soup  w.  pot,  cabbage,  leeks  sliced, \chif6. 
of  lettuce  and  Italian  paste.  •-'  f'      o.  .'l  „  :. 

Grecque,  Greek  style,  mutton  broth  w.  curry,  nitftl'dn  iii 
dice  and  rice  or  ch.  the  same,  cl.  or  th.  ■^■*  ''^ 

Green  Turtle,  See  Tortue.  .        2?^=^''^ 

Grenade,  Cl.  con.  w.  tom.  pu.  gar.  w.  royal  vege,  toni'ato 
in  dice,  rice,  leaves  of  taragon,  chervil. 

Grenouille,  "Frog"  bouillon  for  invalids,  same  ch.  broth 
or  ere.  gar.  w.  boneless  frog  meat.  .aniiozl 

Henri    IV,   Poule  au   Pot.     French   national   soup.'    'See 

Poule  au  Pot. 
Herbes,   For  invalids.     Veal  broth  w.     sorrel,     lettuce, 
leeks  and  chervil,  for  soup  chopped  onions,  sorrel, 

lettuce,  moisten  stock,  thicken  w.  liaison,  dry  shred- 
ded French  bread. 
Hoche-Pot,   Soup   w.   ox-joint,   pigs   tails,   vege.   in   dice, 

small  sausage,  salt  pork,  served  in  earthen  pot  as  an 

entree. 
Hodge    Podge,   National   Scotch   soup,   mutton   broth   w. 

pu.  of  peas,  mutton  cut  in  big  dice. 
Holiandaise,  Th.  w.  veal  stock,  veloute  and  barley  gar. 

w.  small  carrots  and  pot.  balls,  veal  cut  in  dice. 
Holstein,  Pu.  of  tom.  w.  ch.  gar.  w.  crawfish  quen.  asp. 

tips,  small  cauliflower  bouquet. 
Homard,   Cre.   of  lobster   gar.   vv.   lobster   in   dice.     For 

Bisque  of  lobster  (See  Ecrevisses). 
Hongroise,  Hungarion  style  cl.  w*.  paprika  gar.  w.  calf's 

liver  quen.  tom.  in  dice  and  rice  pilaf. 
Hortense,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  asp.   tips,  pearl 

of  carrots. 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Hortensia,  CI.  gar.  w.  dec.  ch.  quen.  spinach  quen.. 
fancy  small  vege.,  rice,  chervil. 

Huitres,  Oysters,  ere.  bisque,  juice,  stewed,  etc.  ' 

Humboldt,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w.  stuf.  pancake  w.  lob- 
ster fo-meat  cut  the  size  of  25c  piece. 

Imperator,  Pu.  of  game  gar.  w.  game  w.  foie-gras  quen. 
cross  of  ch.  fo-meat,  jul.  of  ch.  and  truf. 

Imperatrice,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  dec.  ch.  quen.  w.  crown 
shape,  braised  sweetbreads  in  dice,  rice  or  royal  differ- 
ent colors. 

Imperial,  CI.  rich  con.  gar.  w.  dec.  ch.  quen.  w.  crown 
shape,  royal  of  ch.  jul.  of  niu.  and  truf. 

Indlenne,  CI.  w.  curry  and  cocoanut  milk  gar.  w.  royal 
of  cocoanuts  and  rice. 

Infante,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  sweet  peppers  in  jul.,  rice- 
profiteroles  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.  chervil. 

Irma,  CI.  gar.  w.  large  ch.  quen.  stuf.  w.  asp.  pu.,  jul. 
of  ch.  mu.  and  truf. 

Isoline,  Pu.  of  ch.  w.  crawfish  butter  gar.  w,  tapioca 
and  crawfish  tails. 

Italienne  (Italian  style)  CI.  of  ch.  w.  jul.  of  leeks,  spin- 
ach, celery,  lettuce,  pot.  vermicelli,  liaison  w.  par- 
mesan  cheese;    cheese  can  be  served  separately. 

Jackson,  Pu.  of  pot.  w.  jul.  of  leeks  and  tapioca. 

Jacobine,  Cre.  of  game  gar.  w.  royal  of  almonds,  game 
qeun.  button  shaped. 

Jacqueline,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  royal  of  peas,  asp.  tips,  small 
balls  of  carrots,  rice,  chervil. 

Japonaise,  Cre.  of  Stachys  w.  tapioca  pearls. 

Jarret  de  Boeuf,  Leg  of  beef,  clear  or  thick  w.  vege.  cut 
in  dice,  barley  and  tom. 

Jarret  de  Veau,  Leg  of  veal,  cl.  or  th.  veal  stock  w.  ham, 
gar.  w.  veal  and  ham  cut  in  dice,  barley,  lettuce,  cu- 
cumber, ch.  quen.  button  shaped,  to  thicken  use  arrow 
root. 

Jenny  LInd,  Soup,  turtle  stock,  gar.  w.  cooked  sliced 
nerves  of  calf's  feet,  tapioca  pearls,  small  ch.  quen. 
button  shaped,  small  ring  of  truf. 

Jerome,  Cl.  of  game  gar.  w.  sweet  pot.  quen.  and  crust, 
souf. 

—  78  — 


SOUPS 

Joinville,  Cre.  of  crawfish  gar.  w.  mussels,  lobster  and 
truf.  in  Jul. 

Jouvencelle,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  small  stuf.  lettuce  cigar- 
ette shape,  profiteroles  fil.  carrots  pu.,  grated  cheese. 

Juanita,  CI.  or  ch.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn,  and  vermicelli, 
chervil. 

J u bile,  CI.  rich  con.  w.  pu.  of  fresh  peas  and  chifc, 
chervil. 

Judic,  CI.  gar.  w.  stuf.  lettuce,  ch.  quen.  w.  chopped  ham 
chenille  shape,  pearl  of  truf. 

Julie,  CI.  gar.  \v.  small  stuf.  cabbage,  green  peas,  sorrel 
chifo.  chervil. 

Jules  Cesar,  Cre.  of  game  and  ch.  gar.  ch.  game  and 
truf.  in  julienne. 

Jules  Jan  in,  Pu.  of  fresh  vege.  w.  torn.  gar.  sorrel,  let- 
tuce chifo.  chervil. 

Julienne,  CI.  gar.  w.  vege.  cut  in  jul.  chifo.  chervil. 

Jusienne,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  tom.  and  ch.  cut  in  dice, 
rice. 

Kale  Brose,  Soup  w.  beef  jowl,  cabbage  and  oatmeal. 

King  Edward,  CI.  rich  ch.  on  small  marmite  gar.  w. 
boneless  ch.  wing  and  carrot  balls,  lettuce  in  dice 
and  rice. 

Kissalep,  CI.  turtle  stock  gar.  w.  jul.  of  carrots,  turnips 

and  celery. 
Kleber,  CI.  gar.  w.  foie-gras  quen.  bottom  of  art.  cut  in 

dice,  green  peas,  chervil. 
Klodnich,    Russian    soup    cold    w.    beer,    taragon,    salted 

cucumbers,  beets,  chives,  cracked  ice  and  sour  cream. 
Krapriva,  Russian  soup  w.  onions,  watercress,  chifo.  of 

lettuce,   sour  cream  and  toasted  bread. 
Labourdonnais,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  duck,  royal  of  peas, 

bouquet  of  cauliflower,  chervil. 
Laboureur,  Laborer  style,  gar.  w.  vege.,  pork  knuckles 

and  salt  pork,  sliced  bread, 
Laffite,  CI.  gar.  w.  quen.  of  ch.  of  foi-g.  and  truf.,  cock's 

combs  and  kidneys,  beef  palate,  madeira. 
Lagrandiere,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  and  profiteroles  fil. 

w.  art.  pu. 

—  79  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Laguipiere,     CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  game,     ch.  quep'.  and 

poached  pigeon's  eggs.  i  '"    '.' 

Laitue,  Cre.  of  lettur^e  gar.  w.  crust  souf.      ^'•93"9vuoL 
Lamballe,  Pii.  of  fresh  peas  \v.  tapioca,  chervil. 
Laronciere,  Ci.  gar.  w.  roj^al  of  lobster,  green  peas,  asp. 

tips,  chervil. 
Las'saia,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w.  fish  quen.,  lobster  and 

shrimps  in  dice. 
La  Vailiere,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  celery  gar.  w.  royal  of  green 

peas,  celery  in  dice,  profiteroles  fil.  w.  ch.  pu. 
Leberknodel,   CI.   gar.   \v.   calf's  liver  quen.,   chives  and 

chervil. 
Legumes,  All  soups  made  w.  vege.  clear  or  thi.  cream 

or  puri§e. 
Lemardelais,  Sante  soup  with  clam  broth  and  chopped 

clams.   (See  Sante  Soup.)  ',  ." 

Leon  Xi!l,  Petite  marmite  w.  chi.  liaison  w...  cream  gar. 

w.  cross  in  paste  and  tiara  shape.        ■"    ' -^  ,or.n- 
Leopold,  S'oup  of'ch.  w.  farina  chifo.  greeli' peals,  small 

balls  of  pot. 
Lesseps    (De)    CI.   gar.   w,   royal   of  calf's   brain,   sorrel, 

chifo.  chervil. 
Liegecise,  Pu.  of  thrush  w,  juniper  berries  gar.  w.  jul. 

of  thrush. 
Lilienne,     Soup   w.   leeks   and  pot.     moisten   ch.   stock, 

liaison,  gar.  small  rissoles  of  foie-gras. 
Limousine,   Pu.   of  chestnuts  and  celery  gar.   w.   celery 

cut  in  dice  and  crust  souf. 
Lison,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  celery,  tapioca  pearls. 
Lisette,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  celery,  gar.  w.  ch.   celery  and 

truf.  in  julienne. 
Lithuanienne,  Russian  soup.     Pu.  of  pot.  very  thin,  gar. 

w.    celery    in    jui.,    shredded    sorrel,    nut    sausages, 
smoked  pork,  sour  cream. 
Livonienne,  Russian  soup.     Stock  and  cream   sauce  \v. 

chopped  onions,  shredded  sorrel  and  spinach  finished 
w.   cre.   gar.   w.    Kloskis   made   w.    cream   puff   paste 

mixed  w.  chopped  ham     and  bread  crust     cooked  in 
boiled  water.  (See  Kloses.) 
Longohamp,     Pu.  of  fresh     green  peas   w.     vermicelli, 

chervil,  same  w.   Sante. 

—  80  — 


^_  SOUPS  V j:[')Z/  ::• 

Longueviile,  Pu.  of  green  peas  and  sorrel  gar.  w.  maca- 
roni and  chervil. 
Lorette,  Pu.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  cel-ery  jiil.  small  pot.  Lo-rette 

cock's  kidneys,  chervil,  highly  seasoned.'    •''*  ■•' 
"l-ouisiannaise,  CI.   gar.   w.   stuf.   okra,   small  timbale  of 

crab-meat  w.  saffron,  shrimps  in  dice,  cut  green  corn 
•j^^and   rice   or   gorabo   soup,      add   shrimps     and    sweet 
"peppers. 

Louisstte,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  ch.  and  truf,  in  Jul.  and  peas. 
Luculius,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  ch..  quen.  and  foi-g.  quen. 

Jul.  of  ch.  and  truf.  or  cl.,vric|ii   ch.  con.  gar.  w.  ch. 

foi-g.  and  truf.,  quen.  cock's  kidn^ysand  pearls  of  truf. 
Lyonnaise,  Th.  ch.  veloute  w.  chestnuts  pu.  gar.  w.  royal 

of  chestnuts. 
McDonaid,   CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  calf's  brain,   cucumber 

balls,  ravioli,  chevil. 
TV! a   Cousine,   Soup   of  ch.   w.  jul.   of  leeks,  pot.   chifo., 

sorrel,  spinach,  finished  w.  liaison,  chervil. 
Macedoine,   CI.   gar.   w.   fancy   small   vege.,     add  green 

peas  and  string  beans  in  lozenges,  chervil. 
Madeleine,  Pu.  art.  and  white  beans,  sago  and  liaison. 
Madriiene,   CI.    con.   w.   tbm.   pu.   gar.    w.   sorrel   chifo., 

tom.  in  dice,  rice,  or  cold  in  jelly,  ch.  w,  torn,  essence, 

highly  seasoned. 
Maintenon,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  art.  gar.  w.  royal  of  art.  and 

ch.  quen. 
iVlaisienne,     Cre.   of   green   corn,   gar.     cut  green   corn 

and  crust  souf. 
Majordome,  Cre.  of  lentils  ga.r.  w.  ch.  quen.  chervil. 
Maiakoff,  Pu.  of  pot.  and  tom.  w.  shredded   spinach. 
Maimesbury,  Deer's   head   soup,   mock  turtlesoup  made 

w.  deer's  head  (See  Mock  Turtle)   gar.  w.  jul.  of  mu. 

and  head  in  dice  w.  madeira  wine. 
Malto,  Cre.  of  spinach  gar.  w.  royal  of  spinach  and  rice. 
Mancelle,   Cre.   of  chestnuts   w.   game   essence,   gar.   w. 

Jul.  of  game. 
Manhattan,    CI.    small   marmite,   add   green    corn   quen. 

and  sliced  beef  marrow. 
Manon,   Cre.   of  asp.   gar.   w.   cock's   kidneys,   ch.   quen. 

while,  green,  pink. 

—  81  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Maratchere  (See  Bonne  Femme),  add  sorrel  chifo.,  ver- 
micelli, chervil. 
Marchknodel,  CI.  tapioca  gar.  w.  beef  marrow  quen.  and 

small  ch.  quen. 
Marechal,   CI.   con.   rich  gar.     w.   sticks  of  ch.   fo-meat, 

foi-g.  and  truf.  and  cross  of  legion  of  honor  made  of 

vege. 
M argot,   Cre.   of   ch.   w.   almond  milk,  gar.   w.   royal   of 

almonds. 
Marguerite,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  force-meat  daisy  shaped,  asp. 

tips,  chervil  or  pu.  of  white  beans  and  vermicelli. 
Maria,  Pu.  of  white  beans  gar.  w.  fancy  vege.,  royal  of 

white  beans,  chervil. 
Marianne,  Soup  of  pumkin  w.  bread  crust,  grated  cheese 

on  top,  baked. 
Marie  Louise,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  barley  gar.  w.  bit  of  maca- 
roni, barley  and  green  peas. 
Marie   Stuart,   CI.   gar.   w.   beef  tenderloin   quen.   small 

carrots  and  turnips  ball  and  barley,  chervil. 
Marigny,  Cre.  of  fresh  peas  gar.  w.  sorrel  chifo.,  green 

peas,  cut  string  beans  and  liaison,  chervil. 
Marquise,  CI.  of  chi.  gar.  w.  large  ch.  quen.  fil.  w.  thin 

brunoise,     royal   of  ch.    and     sliced   spinal     marrow, 

chervil. 
Marshall,  CI.  gar.  w.  whole  stuf.  cucumber,  braised  and 

sliced  w.  ch.  jul. 
Martha,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  onions  pu.  gar.  w.  stuf.  ch.  quen. 

fil.  w.  green  peas,  chervil.  ;/, 

Marti niere,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  long  small  stuffed  cabbage 

sliced,  and  diablotin. 
Massena,  CI.  of  game  gar.  w.  royal  of  chestnuts,  noodles, 

game  in  dice,  grated  cheese. 
Mathilde,   Cre.   of   ch.   and   cucumber   gar.   w.   pearls   of 

cucumbers  and  rice. 
Mathurine,  Cre.  of  fish  gar.  w.  salmon  quen. 
Mecene,  CI.  gar.  w.  quen.  and  ch.  royal,  game  royal  and 

celery  in  dice. 
Med  ices,  CI.  gar.  royal  of  carrots  and  peas,  sorrel  chifo. 

bit  of  spaghetti,  ch.  in  dice. 
Medine,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  game,  foi-g.  in  dice,  a  little 

macaroni. 

—  82  — 


SOUPS  I 

Megere,  CI.  gar.  w.  gnochis,  sorrel  and  lettuce,  chifo, 
vermicelli,  fi-herbs. 

Meissonier,  CI.  gar.  w.  bottom  art.  and  torn,  in  dice, 
green  peas,  chervil. 

Melleville,  Cre.  of  shrimps.,  gar.  w.  oyster  crabs  and 
shrimps  in  dice. 

Mercedes,  CI.  gar.  w.  sliced  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 
sweet  peppers  in  dice  and  rice. 

Messaline,  CI.  of  ch.  w.  tom.  gar.  w.  jul.  of  leeks,  cock's 
kidneys  and  rice. 

Metternich,  CI.  of  game  gar.  w.  game  royal  and  artich. 

Mikado,  CI.  ch.  w.  torn.  gar.  w.  ch.  ad  tom.  cut  in  dice 
and  rice. 

Milanaise,  Th.  ch.  thickened  w.  tom.  gar.  w.  a  little  spa- 
ghetti, ham,  truf,  ch.  mu.  cut  in  jul.,  grated  cheese. 

Mile-Fanti,  CI.  thickened  w.  fried  bread  crumbs  and 
parmesan  cheese. 

Mimosa,  CI.  gar.  w.  divers  royal  of  vege.  cut  in  dice, 
chervil. 

Minestra,  Italian  soup  w.  vege.,  spaghetti  and  cheese, 
milanaise  w,  spagh.  w.  rice  piemontaise. 

Mireille,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  dec.  chi.  fo-meat,  medallion 

shape  and  risotto  w.   saffron. 

Mirette,  Cl.  small  marmite  w.  ch.  and  chifo.  sticks  of 
puff  paste,  fil.  w.  cheese,  chervil. 

Miss  Betsy,  Pu.  of  tom.  and  barley  gar.  w.  apples  cut  in 
dice  saute  w.  butter. 

Mock  Turtle  (In  French:  Fausse  Tortue),  Strong  brown 
stock  made  w.  veal  and  calf's  head,  cl.  or  thi.  gar. 
w.  calf's  head,  only  skin  cut  in  dice,  hard  eggs 
(turtle  herbs)  madeira. 

Mogadon,  Cl.  gar.  w.  foi-g.  quen.,  sweet  potatoes,  quen. 
Jul.  of  ch.  tongue,  truf.  chervil. 

Monaco,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  watercress  gar.  w.  ring  of  bread 
crust  fil.  w.  cheese  on  top. 

Mongol,  Th.  pu.  of  split  peas  and  tom.  gar.  w.  jul.  vege., 
chervil.     Do  not  mix. 

Morgan,  Rich,  small  marmite  w.  roast  ch.  gar.  w.  fancy 
shaped  vege.  served  whole  marmite,  chives  and  cher- 
vil on  top,  shredded  French  bread  dry,  cheese  separ- 
ately. 

—  83  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Monselet,  CI.  gar.  Jul.  of  tongue,  green  peas,  sliced  beef 

marrow,  chervil,  sliced  bread. 
Monte  Carlo,  CI.  gar.  w.  eh.  royal  profiterole  fil.  w.  ch. 

pu.  w.  onions  pu.  four  aces,  two  of  truf.,  two  of  sweei, 

peppers,  chifo.  and  chervil.  :   ,' 

Monte  Cristo,  Cre.  of  nettles,  gar.  w.  chifo.,  Jul.  of  truf. 

and  mu. 
Monteil,   CI.  gar.   w.   small   stuf.   lettuce,   cucumbers,  4n 

olive  shape,  chervil.  i.qeasM 

Montespan,  Cre.  of  ch.  and  asp.  gar.  w.  tapioca  pearls 

and  green  peas. 
Montglas,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  jul.  of  ch.  tongue,  mu.  and 

truf. 
Montmorency,  Cre.  of  ch.   gar.  w.  pink  quen.   asp.  tip.s, 

green  peas  and  rice,  cl.  same  gar. 
Montmort,  Cl.   of  ch.   gar.  w.  carrots  and  turnips  cres- 
cent shape,  sausage  of  ch.  fo-meat  w.  chopped  tongue 

and  truf.  sliced.     Royal  of  peas,  asp.  tips. 
Montorgueil,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  fancy  vege.,  sorrel  chifo., 

chervil. 
Montpensier,  Cre.  of  asp.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  and  asp.  tips. 
Montreuil,   Cre.  of  ch.   and  carrots    (do  not  mix).    Pink 

and  white  ch.  quen.  or  royal. 
Morlaisienne,    Cre.   or   art.   w.    bottom   cut   in    dice   and 

crust  souf . 
MosaTque,  Mosaic,  cl.  gar.  w.   ch.  fo-meat  laid  flat  and 

dec.   mosaic     w.   divers   colors,     cooked   slowly,     cut 

when  you  desire. 
Moscovite,  Russian  soup  of  sturgeon     gar.     w.     jul.     of 

gribouis,  cucumber  and  "vesigha"    in  dice  (Sturgeon's 

spinal  marrow) . 
Moules  (Mussels)  Cre.  or  bisque  gar.  w.  mussels  in  dice. 
Mousseline  Cl.  all  cons.  gar.  w.  small  mousseline.   (See 

Mousseline  Force-Meat.) 
Mouton,  Mutton   Broth,  cl.  or  th.   gar.  w.  vege.,  barley 

and  mutton  in  dice.     Cl.  for  invalids,  without  sea. 
Mozart,  Pu.  of  white  beans  or  flageolets,  w.  crust. 
Mulligatawney,  Cl.  or  th.  East  Indian  soup  w.   ch.  and 

curry,  onions,  green  pepper,  egg-plant,  apples  and  ch. 

cut  in  dice,  rice. 

—  84  — 


SOUPS 

Murillo,    Cre.   of  fish   w.   torn.   gar.   w.   pink   and   white 

quen.  of  fish. 
Musard,  Pu.  of  flageolet  beans  w.  bread  crust  and  cher- 
vil. 
Napier,   Croiite-aii-pot,   w.    sliced   marrow   bone,   chives, 

chervil,  sliced  French  bread. 
National,  All  con.   or  soup     gar.   w.   royal     or  timbale 

force-meat,   according  to  -nation. 
Navarraise,    Pu.   of  fresh   peas   gar.   w.    crawfish   quen., 

green  peas,  chervil. 
Navarin,  Ch.  gar.  w.  royal  of  peas,  crawfish,  quen.  rice, 

chervil. 
Nelson,  CI.  turtle  stock  and  fisii  gar.  w.  profiteroles  fil. 

w.  fish  pu.,  rice.  briH  i 

Nelusko,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  cocoanut  milk  gar.  w.  ch.  quen. 

chenille  shape,  grated  cocoanuts. 
Nemours,   Cre.   of  pot.     w.   tapioca  gar.     w.   pot.   balls, 

chervil.  • 

Nemrod,  Pu.  of  game  and  chestnuts  gar.  w,  game  quen. 

and  royal  of  chestnuts. 
Nesselrode,   Cre.   of  barley  w.   veal   stock,   gar.   w.  veal 

in  dice  and  rice,  chervil. 
Nevers,   CI.   gar.   w.   small  bruxelles     sprouts .  and  rfto.ts^ 

cervelas  sausage  and  sliced  bread.  •)  .als^rtahO 

New-Yorkais,   CI.   gar.  w.   royal  of  torn,   and  onions  pu. 

quen.  of  game,  chervil. 
Nicaisie,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  tongue  and  truf.,  spinach 

chifo.,  chervil. 
Nicoise,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn.,  pearl  of  pot.,   string 

beans  cut  in  lozenges,  chervil. 
Nids  d'H i rondel le—Svv^allow  nest  of  salaganes   (Chinese 

birds'  nest)   cleaned  and  poached.   (S'ee  Salanganes.) 
Nilson,  CI.   gar.  w.  ch.   quen.  in  sticks  of  three   colors, 

green  peas,  chervil. 
Ninon,  CI.  gar.  w.  dec.  ch.  quen.  carrots  and  turnips  in 

star  shape  and  pearl  of  truf.,  chervil. 
Nissarde,  Pu.  of  pumkin  w.  milk  and  tapioca. 
Nivernaise,  Cre.  of  carrots,  gar.  w.  jul.  or  carrots. 
Noailles,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  art.,  jul.  of  ch.  veal,  truf., 

tongue,  chervil. 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Normand,  Soup  w.  leeks,     pot.,     carrots,     fresh     white 

beans,  moisten  w.  milk.     Sliced  bread. 
Normande,  Cre.  of  fish,  gar.  w.  fish  quen.,  mussels  and 

shrimps. 
Norvegienne,  Pu.  of  pot.  and  yellow  turnips  gar.  w.  Jul. 

of  beets. 
O'Connor,  Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  Jul.  of  leeks  and  ch.  in  dice. 
CEufs,  CI.  w.  eggs,  divers  style,  gar.  w.  poached  birds, 

pigeons,  etc.   or  conso.   w.   stringed   eggs.    (See   Files 

Eggs). 
Oignons    (Onion  soup),     Sliced  white  onions     saute  in 

butter,    browned,    moisten    w.    water,    cons,    or    milk, 

etc.,      seasoned,     sliced   French   bread     dry    (Served 

Swiss  cheese,  bread  and  cheese  on  top,  baked  in  oven. 
Okra,  Soup  of  gombo  okra   (See  Bamia). 
Okraschka,  Russian  soup.   Pot  au  feu,  add  beef,     ham, 

game  in  dice,  hard  boiled  egg,  toasted  bread. 
Olga,  CI.  cut  in  jul.  leeks,  carrots,  celery  knobs,  agour- 

sis  w.   port  wine. 
01  la  Podrida,  Spanish  pot  au  feu  and  National  dish,  ac- 
cording  to   the   country,   gar.   w.   ch.   beef,   partridge, 

ham,  chorisos  sausage,  garbenzo  (chick-peas). 
Orge,  Barley,  cl.  or  th.  cre.  or  cooked  for  different  soups. 
Orientale,  (3l.  of  lamb  w.  tom,  gar.  w.  okra,  brains,  rice 

pilaf  w.  saffron,  bread  crust  in  crescent  shape  or  cre. 

of  lobster  w.  curry  gar.  w.  small  croquettes  of  crabs, 

truf.  and  lobster  in  crescent. 
Orleans,  Cl.   gar.  w.   ch.   quen.  pink,   white,  blue,  green 

peas,  chervil. 
Orleans    (New),   Cl.   ch.   gombo,  add  shrimps     or     crab 

meat,  sweet  peppers  and  cut  green  corn. 
Orleannalse,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  chicory,  string  beans, 

flageolets,  green  peas,  chervil. 
Orties,  Nettles,  cre.  w.  young  nettles  and  spinach  gar. 

w.  tarragon  leaves,  chives  and  chervil. 
Oseille,  Sorrel,  cre.  soup,  chiffonade   (See  S'ante  Soup). 
Ostendaise,   Cre.   of  fish  gar.   w.   royal  of  coral  lobster 

and  nuts  of  oysters, 
Ouka,  Russian  fish  soup  gar.  w.  sturgeon  quen.  chopped 

celery,  fennel,  taragon,  chervil. 

—  86  — 


SOUPS 

Oursin,  Sea-hedgehog,  ere.  or  bisque  gar.  w.  fish  queii. 
Ox-tail,  CI.  or  thi.  sliced  ox-tails,  gar.  w.  vege.  and  barley. 
Oxalis,  Gre.  oxalis,  w.  ch.  gar.  w.  oxalis  royal. 
Paello,  Spanish  ch.  soup  w.  leeks,  green  peppers,  rice. 
Palermitaine,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn.  ch.  in  dice,  spa- 
ghetti, grated  cheese. 
Palestine,  Cre.  of  Jerusalem,  art.,  celery  in  dice,  crust. 
Palestro,   CI.   julienne   soup,   torn,     cut   in  dice,   lettuce 

chifo.,  rice. 
Palmer,  Cre.  of  lobster,  gar.  w.  fish  quen.,  Jul,  of  pan- 
cake. 
Panade,   Bread   soup,   cooked   w.   water   or  milk,   to   be 

cooked  one  hour,  for  child  or  invalid. 
Paquita,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas,     gar.  w.  tom.  in     dice  and 

tapioca  pearls. 
Parfait,  Th.  veloute  of  ch.  gar.  w.  foi-g.  quen.  and  ch. 

quen. 
Parisien,  Soup  \r.  leeks  and  pot.  pu.  or  sliced,  chervil, 

shredded  French  bread. 
Parisienne,  CI.  gar.  w.  fancy  mixed  vege.  and  royal  vege. 

chervil. 
Parmentier,  Pu.  w.  potatoes,  crust  and  chervil. 
Pascaline,    CI.    gar.    w.    pearls    of    carrots   and    turnips, 

peas,  white  and  pink  ch.   quen.,  chervil 
Pastourelle,  Pu.  w.  pot.  gar.  w,  bottom  of  mus.,  pot.  in 

dice,  chervil.  ■ 

Paterson,  Th.  w.  tapioca,  gar.  royal  of  peas,  ch.  quen. 

mu.  cut  in  dice. 
Pates,  All  soups  gar.     w.  divers  paste,     served  grated 

cheese. 
Patti,  Cre.  of  art.  gar.  w.  foi-g.  quen.  and  royal  art.  or 

el.  gar.   royal  art.  and  profiteroles   fil.  w.  foi-g.  pu. 
Paysanne,   Country   style   soup,   w.   sliced   vege.   w.   salt 

pork  and  sliced  bread.  i 

Penobscot,  Gombo  style  w.  soft  shell  crab,  oysters  and 

mussels. 
Pepper   Pot,   Philadelphia     style,  th.  w.     onions,  green 

pepper  cut  in  dice,  thi.  w.  white  stock,  add  tripe  and 

pot.  cut  in  dice,  and  spatzel  w.  crushed  whole  peppers 
and  fi-herbs  cooked  in  soup.   (See  Spatzel.) 

—  87  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Perles  de  Nizam,  Japanese  tapioca,  w.  cons,  or  cooked 

for  gar:\- *^  "'    '[  •  -^-^  ^^x^ 

Peruvienne,  Cre!^  of  oxalis  "W.  crust  soiif. 
Petit  Due,  Cre.  of  game  _gar,  w.  royal  of  foie-gras  jul. 

of  game  and  truf.  -^--^  • 

Petite  IVlariee,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w,  royal  of  almonds,  roy^^l 

of  ch.  - 

Petite   Marmite   (Original  Pot  au  Feu),   Serve  in  small 

earthen  pot  or  tureen  w,  marrow  bone,  chervil.    (See 

Croute  au  Pot.) 
Pied  de  Veau,  Calf's  foot  soup,  cl.  or  thi.,  gar.  w.  quen., 

chi.  lettuce,  cucumber  cut  olive  shape,  barley,  chervil 
Piemontais,     Cl.     w.     tom.,     green     peppers,     onions, 

risotto  w.  saffron,  sliced  sausage. 
Pierre  le  Grand,  Cre.  of  game  and  mu,  gar.  w.  jul.  of 

game,  ch.  and  mus. 
Pilaf,  Turkish  soup  w.  ch.,  mutton,  onions,  green  and 

sweet  peppers,  rice  w.  saffron. 
Pistou,  Same  Minestra,  add  w.  vermicelli  and  garlic. 
Piumery,  Cl.  gar.  w,  royal  of  duck,  braised  lettuce  on 

bread  crust. 
Poireaux,  Leeks,  soup,  cl.  or  th.,  divers  style. 
Pois  Casses,  Split  peas,  th.  w.  bread  crust. 
Pois  Frais,  Green  peas,  th.  cre.  or  for  garn. 
Poisson,  Cl.  ot  th.  cons,  w.  fish  (See  Waterzoo.) 
Polignac,  Cl.  gar.  w.  crawfish     quen.,   small     heads  of 

mushrooms. 
Polonaise,  Polish  style.  (S'ee  Bortsch),  or  small  marmite 

w.  semolina. 
Pomeranien,  Cl.   soup  w.  duck,     celery  and  pot.  cut  in 

di.ce. 

Pompadour,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  tapioca     gar.  w.  profiterole 

fil.  w.  tom.  pu. 

Pondichery,   Cl.   of  ch.   w.   curry   gar.   w.   stuf.   pancake 

cut  in  half-moon   shape,   rice. 
Popelin,   Cl.   w.   tapioca   gar.   w.     boneless  stuf.   turkey 

wing  sliced  and  sp.varin  crust  in  crescent. 
Portland,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  lobster  quen.  and  jul.  of 

lobster  or  cream  of  salmon  w.  salmon  quen. 


SOUPS 

Portugaise,  CI.  of  ch.  w.  torn.  gar.  w.  Jul.  of  leek,  torn. 

in  dice,  rice,  grated  cheese. 
P6t-au-Feu,  A  famous  French  home  soup  in  earthen  pot, 

family  style.  (See  Croute  au  Pot,  or  Henry  IV. j 
Potiron,  Cre.  or  pu.  of  pumkin  w.  crust. 
Pouie   au    Pot,   National   French   Pot   au   Feu   w.   whole 

roast  ch.,  large  piece  of  beef  and  vege.,  sliced  French 

bread. 
Poupard,  A  kind  of  crab,  cream  or  bisque. 
Pourpler,  Flemish  soup  with  purslane,  pot.  pu.  w.  purs- 
lane chifo.  of  lettuce,  green  peas,  chervil. 
Primeur,  CI.  gar.  w.  early  vege.,  chervil  or  fancy  vege. 
Princesse,   CI.   gar,   w.   royal   of  asp.   and   peas,   barley, 

asp.  tips,  chervil  or  crawfish  bisque  gar.  w.  tails,  ch. 

quen.  and  asp.  tips. 
Printanier,  CI.  beef  or  ch.  gar.  w.  fancy  vege.,  chervil. 
Providence,  CI.  av.  tapioca  and  chifo.,  ch.  quen.  or  game, 

chervil. 
Puchero,  Spanish  national  dish.   (See  OUa  Podrida.)     r^ 
Puree,   Ail   soups   made   w.   ch.,   game,   vege.,   etc.,   gar. 

according  to  article. 
Quebec   (See  Maria),  Add  fancy  vege.,  chervil. 
Quenelle,  CI.  gar.  all  quenelles  according  to  article. 
Queue  de  Boeuf  (See  Ox-Tail).     CI.  or  th.  ^"f.  -^-"' 

Queue  de  Veau,  Veal  tail,  cl.  or  th.   (See  Ox-Tail). 
Rabelais,   Cl,   of  game  gar.   w.   game   quen.  and   Jul.   of 

celery. 
Rachel,  Cre.  of  art.  and  ch.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  and  art. 

or  cl.  of  ch.     gar.  w.  royal  of     art,  quen.,     peas  and 

small  crust  fil.  w.  beef  marrow. 
Rahm,  Th.  w.  veloute  and  milk  gar.  w.  carrots,  turnips 

and  caraway  seeds. 
Ramayanha,  Cl.  of  ch.  w.  curry  gar.  w,  royal  of  ch.  w. 

curry,  rice. 
Ravenne,   Cl.   gar.   w.   quen.   of     ch.  chenille     and   stuf. 

macaroni  fil.  w.  foi-g. 
Raviolis,   Cl.   gar.  w.  raviolis,   grated  parmesan   cheese. 
Recamier,  Cre.  or  pigeon,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips. 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      E  N  C  Y  C  L  O  T  E  D  I  A 

Reine,  CI.  or  th.  ere.  of  ch.  gar.  royal  of  ch.  or  cli.  quen. 
or  in  dice  or  cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.  jul.  of  ch.  mu. 

and  truf. 

Reine  M argot,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  almond  milk  gar.  w.  royal 
of  almonds  and  ch. 

Rejane,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  almonds,  royal  of  carrots 
and  stringed  eggs,  chervil. 

Remusat,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  tom.,  of  carrots  and  spi- 
nach, chervil. 

Renaissance,  Cl.  gar.  w.  royal  of  carrots,  turnips  and 
fancy  vege.  of  all  kinds,  chervil. 

Riche,  Rich,  all  consommes,  extra  strong,  cold  or  hot, 
gar.  according  to  consomme. 

Richelieu,  Cl.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  fil.  w.  glazed  meat, 
small  stuf.  lettuce  jul.,  only  red  of  carrots,  chervil. 

Rivoli,  Cl.  of  fish  w.  tom.  gar.  w.  fish  quen.,  bit  of  spa- 
ghetti, grated  cheese. 

Rognons,  Kidney,  Polish  style,  th.  gar.  w.  veal  kidney 
cut  in  dice,  cucumber  balls,  gribouis  and  watercress. 

Rockaway,  Cre.  of  clam  gar.  w.  soft  clams,  fish  quen. 
and  lobster  in  dice. 

Rohan,  Cre.  of  game,  gar.  w.  dec.  game  quen.  and  royal 
of  almonds. 

Rossini,  Cl.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  profiteroles  fil.  w.  foie-gras 
pu.,  Jul.  of  truf. 

Rossolnich,  Th.,  same  as  Rognons.  Add  ch.  and  celery 
cut  in  dice. 

Rothschild,  Cl.  of  game  gar.  w.  royal  of  game  and  chest- 
nuts Jul.  of  game  and  truf. 

Rouennaise,  Cre.  or  pu.  of  duck  gar.  w.  jul.  of  duck. 

Roumanille,  Cl.  onions  soup  w.  milk  and  vermicelli, 
grated  cheese,  baked. 

Royal e,  All  cons,  or  soup  gar.  w.  divers  royal. 

Rubens,  Cons.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  poached  eggs  and  hop 
shoots. 

Russienne,  Cre.  of  yellow  turnips  w.  crust. 

St.  BenoTt,  Cl.  gar.  w.  profiteroles  fil.  w.  art.  pu.  jul. 
of  cabbage  and  sweetbread  in  dice  or  cre.  of  lobster 
gar.  Jul.  of  lobster  and  mu. 

St.  Charles,  Cl.  with  tapioca  gar.  poached  egg,  chervil. 

—  90  — 


SOUPS 

St.  Cloud,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas  gar.  w.  chifo.  lettuce  and 

leeks,  green  peas,  parsley  and  chervil. 
St.  Denis,  Cre.  of  mushrooms,  gar.  w.  crust  souf. 
St.  George   (See  Jenny  Lind),  add  quen.  of  ch.  in  pin- 
head  shape  of  three  colors. 
St.   Germain,   Puree   of  fresh  green   peas   gar.   w.   peas, 

chervil. 
St.  Hubert,  All  pu.  of  game,  Jul.  of  game  according  to 

pu.  Jul  of  truf. 
St.  Jacques,  Cre.  of  shellfish  gar.  according  to  shell. 
St.  Jean,  Ore.  of  fish,  gar.  of  codfish  quen. 
St.   IVlalo,  Cre.  of  fish  gar.  or  fish  quen.  and  shrimps. 
St.  Marceau,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas  gar.  w.  jul.  of  lettuce  and 

leek,  chervil. 
St.    Nicaise,   CI.   gar.   w.   ch.   quen.   of  tongue   and  truf. 

chenille  shape,  shredded  spinach. 
St.  Pierre,  Cre.  of  lobster  gar.  w.  codfish  quen.,  jul.  of 

lobster  and  mussels. 
St.  Saens,  CI.  gar.  w.  tapioca,  pearl  barley  and  negresse 

pot.  balls  and  raviolis,  cheese. 
St.  Thomas,  Pu.  of  pot.  and  onion  soup  gar.  w.  diablotin. 
Sagou,  CI.  w.  sago. 
Salanganes,  Esculent  swallow  (salanga),  Chinese  bird's 

nest,  soup  gar.  w.  ginger  root,  tombac,  chrysalis,  rice 

and  curry.     Cost,  $5.00  per  plate. 
Saiep,  Ch.  con.  w.  tapioca. 
Salvator,  Th.  w.  tapioca  and  tom.  gar.  w.  tom.  in  dice, 

rice,  chervil. 
Sante,  Th.  w.  pu.  of  pot.  w.  sori-^1  chifo,  thi.  of  liaison, 

slice  of  French  dry  bread. 
Sarah   Bernhardt,  CI.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  crawfish,  quen. 

asp.  tips,  moelle  poached  in  dice,  jul.  of  truf. 
Saumon,  Cre.  of  salmon  gar.  salmon  quen. 
Savarin,    CI.    gar.    w.    ch.    quen.    fil.    w.    onion    pu.      and 

sweetbread  in  dice. 
Savoyard,   Soup,   cut   in   dice   leek,   pot.,   salt   pork   and 

toasted  rye  bread. 
Schty  or  Stschy,     Russian     soup  w.  beef  cut     in  dice, 

choucroute,  sour  cream,  parsley,   r  .iz-a. 

—  91  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sebastian i,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn.  dec.  ch.  quen.,  deco- 
rated and  ring  of  truf. 

Semouie,  Farina,  con.  milk  or  wine. 

Sevigne,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  ch.  quen.,  asp.  tips,  green  peas. 

Seville,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  eye-shaped,  tapioca  pearls, 
royal  of  torn.  j.'; 

Sicilienne,  Ci.  gar,  w.  ring  of  green  quen.,  ring  of  art., 
stars  of  carrots  and  turnips. 

Sigurd,  Pu.  of  pot.  and  torn.  gar.  w.  ch.  w.  sweet  and 
green  pepper. 

Silianka,  Russian  soup   w.   duck  and  ham   cut  in  dice, 

,.  choucroute  jul.,  agoursis.  .*S 

Skembay,  Turkish  soup  w.  tripe  cut  in  dice  w.  onions 
and  torn.  pu.  w.  sweet  cream. 

Sobiesky,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  torn,  and  varsovienne  bis- 
cotte. 

Soissonnaise,  Pu.  of  Avhite  beans  w.  bread  crust,- chervil. 

Soidat  Victorieux  (Victorious  Soldier).  Pot  au  Feu  na- 
tional w.  large  pieec  of  beef. 

Solferino,  Pu.  of  carrots  and  peas  w.  tapioca,  balls  of 
carrots   and   turnips,   chifo.   macaroni,   chervil. 

Soubrette,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  white  and  pink,  eye- 
shaped,  green  peas  and  shrimps  in  dice. 

Souvenir,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  ch.,  asp.  tips,  shrimps  in 
dice,  rice. 

Souveraine,  CI.  gar.  w.  ch,  quen.  filled  w.  foi-g.,  fancy 
vege.,  chervil. 

Strawberries,  CI.  of  ch.  w.  strawberry  flavor,  hot  or  cold. 

Sport   (See  Sante).  Add  vermicelli,  chervil. 

Sultane,  CI.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  small  ch.  quen.,  white  and 
pink,  rice  w.  saffron,  white  hard  ^^^  in  crescent  and 
bread  crust  stuf.  in  crescent  shape. 

Suzette,  Pu.  of  fresh  peas  w.  cre,  gar.  w.  small  poached 
eggs  and  green  peas,  chervil. 

Talma,  CI.  gar.  w.  royal  of  almonds,  asp.  tips. 

Tapioca,  Cons.  w.  tapioca  or  milk. 

Terrapin,  Cre.  gar.  w.  terrapin  cut  in  dice.  CI.  terrapin 
broth.     Brown.  (See  Turtle.) 

Theo,  CI.  of  game  gar.  game  quen. 

Theodora,  CI.  gar.  royal  of  asp.  jul.  ch.  and  truf. 

—  92  — 


SOUPS 

Therese,  Cre.  of  string  beans  w.  tapioca, -Jul.  of  Gh.  and 

leeks.  ni   in-)  enj: 

Thourin,   Onion  soup  w.  milk     and  liaison     w.'  ring  of 

toasted  bread. 
Tomate    (Tomatoes),   Cre.   pu.   broth   gar.;  according  to 

name. 
Tortue  (Clear  and  thickened).  "Turtle."  CI.,  make  stock 

w.  turtle  and  leg  of  beef,  very  strong  and  clear,  add 

basil,    marjoram,    rosemary,    fennel,    mint,    sage,    all- 
;  spice.      Madeira    or    sherry    wine.      Cut   the    green    in 

large  dice,   or  thi.   use   all   small   meat  of  the   turtle 

and    moisten    like   brown    sauce,    gar.    w.    small    eggs 

quen.  and  meat  in  dice.        .  .  ^  f     . 
Tosca,   CI.   gar.   w.;  foi-g.    Q.u^ri..c1iV"w^  pistachio  queh., 

Jul.   only     red  of  carrots,     profiterole  fil.     w.   pu.   of 

spinach. 
Toscane,  CI.  gar.  w.  egg-plant,  torn.,'  mii.  cut  in  dice,  bits 

of  macaroni,  grated  cheese."  ' "' 
Toulousaine,  Cre.  of  wheat,  ordinary  royal  in  dice,  crust 

souf.  -   . 

Tourangelie,      Cre.    of   ch.    and      string   beans      gar.    w. 

flageolet  beans,  string  bea.ns  cut  in  lozenges,  chervil. 
T revise,  Con.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  jul.  of  ch.,  tongue,  mu., 

truf.    ;3^i)  iii  ^I'jsauin   .v/  /lap,  f  lo  .aiO  .ogiV 

^.'alencienne,  Con.  w.  farina  and  sorrel  chifo.,  chervil. 
Valentine,   CI.   of  ch.   gar.     •v^^   decorated     ch.   quen.   of 

heart-shaped  jul.  of  ch.  and  truf. 
\/ar30vienne,  Con.  w.  biscotte  varsovienne, 
Vatel,   CI.  of  fish  gar.   w.   lobster   quen.   and  fish,   filet 

of  sole  in  dice. 
\/audoise,  CI.  w.  vege.  country  style  w.'S'wiss  cheese. 
Veau,  Veal  bouillon  w.  knuckle  and  vege.   (See  Hollan- 

dais),  for  invalids  bouillon  w.  herbs, 
/eiours    (Velvet),  Th.   mixed  carrots  pu.  of  tapioca. 
Veloute  or  Veloutine,  Rich  ch.  or  veal  white  stock,  used 

for  thickening  soups,  gar.  according  to   soup.        (See 

Sauce  Veloute.) 
Vendeen,   CI.   gar.   w.   royal  and   sticks  of  vege.   cooked 

all  together,  sliced,  chervil. 
\/enitien,    CI.    gar.   w.    ch.    quen.    of   divers    colors,'  rice, 

gnocchis,  grated  cheese.^"^'^"P  mifijioV 

—  93  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Verdeau,   CI.   gar.   w.  soft  boiled   eggs,   ch.   quen.   string 

beans  cut  in  lozenges. 
Verneuil,  Cre.  of  green  peas  and  barley,  royal  of  carrots, 

Jul.  of  mu. 
Veronaise,   CI.   gar.   w.   mixed   vege.   and   Italian   paste, 

grated  cheese. 
Veron,  CI.  gar.  w.  string  beans,  royal  Jul.  of  green  and 

sweet  peppers  and  truf. 
Vert-Pre   or   Pre-Vert.   Cre.   of  ch.    and   spinach  gar.   w. 

tapioca  or  crust  souf.  or  cl.  w.  tapioca  gar.  w.  royal 

of  spinach,  asp.  tips,  green  peas  and  string  beans  in 
dice. 
Vesigha,  Cl.  of  ch.  and  veal  gar.  w.  vesigha  (sturgeon's 

spinal  marrow)   cut  in  dice  and  ch.  quen. 
Veuillemot,  Cre.  of  white  beans  w.  chifo.  rice,  chervil. 
Victor  Hugo,  Cre.  of  art.  w.  tapioca. 
Victoria,   Cre.  of  ch.  and  tom.  gar.  w.  fancy  vege.,   ch. 

quen.  white  and  pink. 
Viennoise    (Vienna   style).    Soup  gar.   w.   vege.,   smoked 

beef,  smoked  pork,  barley  and  rice. 
Vigneron,  Pu.  of  pumpkin  and  white  beans  w.  red  wine, 

toasted  bread. 
Vigo,  Cre.  of  mussels  gar.  w.  mussels  in  dice. 
Villageoise,  Soup  village  style;   cabbage,  pot.  and  leeks 

cut  thick,  with  vermicelli  and  bread  crust. 
Villars,  Cre.  of  art.  and  onions,  chervil,  crust  souf. 
Villeneuve,   Cl.   gar.    w.   stuf.   lettuce,   stuf.   pancake,  w 

ch.  and  fi-herbs,  ordianry  royal. 
Virginia,  Cre.  of  sweet  potatoes,  gar.  av.  sweet  pot.  cui 

in  dice,  fried  in  butter  or  bisque,  or  cre.  of  crab  gar 

w.  oyster  crabs  and  sweet  pot. 
Viticulteur  (Wine  grower),  Soup  with  wine  divers  style 
Viveur,   Rich    cons.,    add    wine    or    beer,    gar.    w.    celery 

cut  in  dice  and  diablotins. 
Vivianne,   Cre.  of  ch.  gar.  w.  art.,   carrots,  truf.  cut  ir 

dice. 
Volaille,     Chi.     all   soups  w.   ch.   broth  composition  o] 

cream,  etc.,  gar.  acocrding  to  soup. 
Voltaire,  Cl.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.,  tom.  and  ch.  in  dice. 

—  94  — 


SAUCES 

Vongoli  (Italian  name  for  Clams),  w.  leeks,  tom.  in  dice, 

chopped  green  celery,  crust. 
Voisin,  Cre.  of  ch.  w.  mixed  fancy  vege. 
Waldeze,  Con.  tom.  w.  tapioca  and  torn,   in  dice,  grated 

cheese. 
Washington,     Pu.  of  tom.     w.  tapioca  and  fancy  vege., 

chervil. 
Waterzoei,  Dutch  soup.     A  light  soup  prepared  w.  fish 

and  vege.     Use  fresh  water  fish,  \v.  white  wine,  aro- 
matic  herbs,   fish   served   separately. 
Westmoreland,  CI.  or  th.  veal  stock  thi.  w.  arrow-root, 

gar.  w,  ch.  quen.,  celery,  calf's  head,  sweetbreads  cut 

in  dice,  madeira. 
\/Vight,  Bisque  of  oyster  crabs,  gar.  w.  oyster  crabs  or 

cre.  the  same. 
Wilson,  Cre.  of  oyters  gar.  w.  oyster  quen.,  sliced  fresh 

mu.  and  fi-herbs. 
Windsor,  CI.  of  ch.     and  calf's  feet     gar.  w.   ch.   quen. 

white   and   pink  and  calf's   feet   in  jul. 
^oranzoff,   CI.   of  ch.   and   game,   gar.   w.   raviolis,  jul., 

agourcis  and  watercress. 
Kau,   Pu.  of  game     gar.  w.   game   quen.     jul.   of  tulips. 

Port  wine. 
Kavier,   Cre.   of  ch.   and   rice,   liaison  gar.   w.   ch.   royal 

in  dice,  or  pu.  ol  white  beans. 
Keres,   CI.  of   ch.   or  game   very   strong,   gar.   w.   ch.   or 

game.     Xeres  wine. 
/okalmein,  Chinese  soup  of  ch.  gar.  w.  cooked  noodles 

in  soup,  parboiled  ch.,  sliced  smoked  pork,  hard  boiled 

eggs  cut  in  half. 


SAUCES 

There  are  three  different  kinds  of  sauces: 

Espagnole,  Veloute  and  Bechamel.  Of  these  three 
principal  sauces  are  derived  many  others,  with  excep- 
tion of  the  Neutral  ones,  Neutral  sauces  meaning  that 
they  are  not  composed  of  juice  meat  or  fish.  The  Es- 
pagnole sauce  is  brown  and  made  of  butter  and  Hour, 
aicistened  with  good  meat  juice    (veal  preferred)    gar- 

—  95  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


nished  with  Mirepoix  (see  Mirepoix  in  list  of  sauces). 
Let  cook  from  4  to  5  hours,  then  strain  in  an  earthen 
pot  and  stir  until  cold,  by  intervals,  of  course. 

With  this  sauce  Espagnole,  one  can  make  any., other, 
brown  sauce,  by  adding  wine  and  stock  of  articles  and 
reduced  to  demi-glace. 

The  sauce  Veloute  is  the  sister  of  the  sauce  Es- 
pagnole, one  being  brown  and  the  other  white.  From 
these  two  sauces  are  derived  a  multitude  of  others; 
without  the  Veloute,  the  sauce  Allemande  cannot  be 
made,  as  it  is  the  base  of  all  v/hite  sauces.  The 
Veloute  sauce  should  be  made  v/ith  good  stock,  such 
as  fowl,  veal  or  giblets  of  fowl,  of  sufficient  quantity 
and  garnished  with  onions,  carrots,  celery,  leeks,  aro- 
matics  and  a  little  salt.  It  must  be  cooked  white  in 
fresh  butter  and  then  moistened  with  the  stock.  Stir 
well,  so  that  it  will  be  smooth.  It  should  be  cooked 
from  1  to  2  hours,  then  take  all  of  the  grease  off. 
Make  the  sauce  Allemande  in  this  manner:  Separate 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  from  the  whites  (6  eggs  to  one 
quart.  Put  the  yolks  in  an  earthen  bowl,  with 
a  little  mushroom  juice,  a  little  of  the  cold  stock, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Whip  the  yolks  well,  put  in  little 
by  little  the  Veloute.  If  hot,  put  on  the  fire  and 
stir  constantly  so  the  yolks  will  cook  without  turn- 
ing. Strain  through  a  sieve  or  fine  cloth.  When 
this  sauce  is  finished  it  should  be  white  and  of  a  deli- 
cate taste.  For  Blanquette,  Poulette,  Fricasse,  proceed 
in  the  same  way  with  the  stock  of  your  article,  adding 
mushrooms,  chives,  fine  herbs  or  taragon. 

The  sauce  Bechamel  is  the  Veloute  added  with  cream 
during  the  reduction. 

The  sauce  Bechamel  can  be  made  with  milk  also  in 
default  of  cream.  Make  a  light  brown  flour  with 
butter  and  add  boiling  cream  or  milk,  whip  well  and 
season  lightly.  Cut  in  dice  a  carrot,  an  onion,  a 
small  piece  of  leek  and  the  head  of  celery;  fry  all  to- 
gether in  butter,  put  all  of  the  garnishings  in  the 
sauce.  Cook  slowly  one  hour,  stir,  strain,  then  finish 
with  a  piece  of  sweet  butter. 

This    sauce    is     used   to   thicken     vegetables,   cream 

—  96  — 


SAUCES 

soups,  fish,  eggs,  all  sauces  having  cream  for  their  base, 
and  all  dishes  not  containing  meat. 

Ail  sauces  for  fish,  white  or  brown  are  made  of 
Veloute,  Espagnole  or  Allemande  with  the  reduction  of 
the  stock  in  v/hich  they  are  cooked,  and  in  the  consist- 
ance  of  the  sauce  and  in  the  seasoning. 

The  sauces  for  chaud-froid  are  made  with  madeira 
or  allemande,  reduced  from  rich  stock,  meat  jelly, 
fowl,  fish  and  a  few  pieces  of  gelatine  may  be  added. 
Reduce,  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  and  stir  until  cold; 
when  it  is  congealed  cover  the  articles  one  wishes 
chaud-froider  w.  sa. 

Prohibition  forbids  the  use  of  wines  or  liquors  in 
cooking.  Therefore  it  is  very  necessary  to  have  all  of 
the  sauces  distinctive  and  we-ll  seasoned. 

Neutral   Sauces 

S'auces  under  this  name  are  made  without  meat  juice, 
fish  or  fowl,  such  as:  HoUandaise,  Bearnaise,  Bread, 
Horseradish  and  Mayonnaise. 

Cold    Sauces 

Nearly  all  of  the  Cold  sauces  have  for  their  base 
mayonnaise,  adding  ingredients  such  as  oil  and  vinegar. 

All  Preserved  sauces  universally  known  will  be  found 
here. 

MIREPOIX    (Culinary   Term) 

This  supplementary  composition  is  made  of  vegetables 
and  is  an  ar.omatic  condiment,  used  for  sauces  and  meat. 
Use  the  quantity  that  is  necessary,  cut  in  dice  or  jul., 
triangle  or  sliced,  mixed  according  to  article  desired. 

Bordelaise  or  Brunoise.  Composition:  Onions,  carrots, 
celery,  ham,  thyme,  bay  leaves,  cut  very  thin,  dice, 
smothered  w.  butter  10  to  12  minutes,.  Serve  with 
crawfish  a  la  Bordelaise,  fish,  etc. 

—  97  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Matignon.  A  modern  Mirepoix.  Composition:  onions, 
carrots,  ham  or  salt  pork,  bay  leaves,  thyme,  cloves, 
crushed  white  pepper,  fry  in  pan  until  colored  lightly. 
It  is  sometimes  cut  in  short  jul.  w.  mushrooms,  truf., 
celery,  etc.  Moisten  w.  madeira  or  wine  and 
smothered.  Used  for  filet  mignon  of  beef  and 
chicken,   etc.     Also    served   for   garnishing. 

Mirepoix.  Composition:  same  as  Matignons,  cut  in  big 
dice  and  fried  in  pan,  used  for  sauce,  puree,  etc. 

Duxelles.  A  composition  w.  chopped  shallots,  mush- 
rooms, condiment  used  for  stuffing,  tomatoes,  mush- 
rooms., eggplant,  sa.,  etc.  Composition:  onions,  shal- 
lots, mushrooms  fried  w.  good  olive  oil,  moisten  w. 
white  wine,  meat  juice,  chopped  parsley,  reduce  the 
substance  until  thick,  add  puree  of  tomatoes  accord- 
ing to  article. 

Gastric  (Culinary  term).  Used  for"' Bearnaise  and  Hol- 
landaise.  Crushed  pepper  w.  vinegar  or  white  wine, 
shallots,  aromatics,  reduced  and  strained.  (See  Hol- 
landaise  or  Bearnaise.) 

Sauces  and  their  Compositions 

Color  Abbreviations:  Bio.,  blonde;  Br.,  brown;  gr., 
green;   Pi,  pink;   R.,  red;  whi.,  white;  ye.,  yellow. 

Sauce  Abbreviations:  AM.,  Allemande;  Bea.,  Bearn- 
aise; br.,  brown;  Esp.,  Espagnole;  fi-he.,  fine  herbs; 
Hoi.,  Hollandaise;  jul.,  julienne;  ma.,  madeira;  may., 
mayonnaise;  moi.,  moisten;  rr.u.,  mushroom;  redu.,  er- 
duced;  sa.,  sauce;  she.,  sherry;  sup.,  supreme;  sea., 
seasoned;  torn.,  tomatoes;  thi.,  thickened;  trL4f.,  truffles; 
vel.,  veloute;  wh.-wi.,  white  wine;  r.  wi.,  red  wine;  w., 
with;   wh.,  white. 

A-1,  Br.     In  bottles,  international,  preserved  sa. 
Africaine,  Br.     Espagnole  sa.  w.  torn,  sa,     and  truf.  in 

dice,  highly  sea. 
Aigre,  Br.     Stock  of  any  article  moi.  w.  sour  cream. 

—  08  — 


S  AUCESi  ._  J    ,      r,   .1^1    • 

Aigre>Doux,  Br.     Stock  of  any  article  moi.  and  currant 

jelly. 
Aiiiade,  Wh.     Cold  mayo.  w.  French  mustard  and  garlic. 
Ailloli,  Ye.     Cold,     garlic   pu.,   work  well  with  oil  and 
^  cGoked  yolk  eggs,  sea. 

Airelle,  Re.     Cold  cranberries,  cooked  and  strained,  add 
.1  .-sugar. 

Aixoise,  Pi.     Tom.  redu.,  garlic  w.  muscat  juice. 
Albert,  ¥v"u.     Horseradish,     thi.   w.     cream     and  bread 

crumb&,  add  Cohnan's  mustard,  strained,  butter. 
Aibufera,   Wh.    Sup.   sa.   w.    ch.    glace   meat,      beat     w. 

sweet  p'opper  butter.  .^ 

Alcide,  Wh.     White  wine  sa.,  shallots  and  horseradish. 
Aiiemande,  Wh.     Redu.  Velouie,  yolk  of  egg,  ess.  of  mu. 

(read  heading  of  sauce.) 
Ambassadrice,  Wh.    Rich  supr.  sa.  w.  essence  of  truffles. 
Arnericaine,   Pi.     Mirepoix  bcrdelaise   w,    coulis   of  lob- 
ster, fi-her. 
Anchois,   Wh.   and  Br.     Hoi.    sa.   w.   anchovy  butter   or 

Esp.  sa.  w.  anchovy  essence. 
Artdalouse,  Pi.     Cold  may.   sa.   \\\  redu.  torn.  w.  Jul.  of 

sweet  peppers  or  may.  w.  sweet  pepper  pu. 
Anglaise,    Yv'h.     Bechamel    sa.    w.      smothered      onions 

highly  sea. 
Apple,  Gr.     Cold  or  hot,  apples  cooked  in  pu.  strained, 

add  sugar. 
Archiduc,  Wh.     Sup.  sa.  w.  double  cream,  article  mois- 
tened with  fine  champagne  brandy. 
Ariequin,  Vv^h.  or  br.  All.  or  demi-glace  sa.  add  rau.  truf, 

green  and  sweet  peppers,  tongue,  white  of  boiled  egg, 

all  cut  in  dice. 
Arlesienne,  Pi.   Bea.   sa.   w.   pounded  tom.   and  anchovy 

essence. 
Argentine,     Br.       Demi-glace    w.    tom.    sa.    with    butter, 

highly  sea. 
Aromatique,  Wh.  or  Br.  All  sa.  w.  composition,  infusion. 

reduction  of  spices  or  aromatic  herbs. 
Aryle,  Br.  Catsup,  Worcestershire  sa.  Colman's  mustard 

V,'.  butter. 
Aurore,  Pi.  All.-sa.  w.  tom.  redu.  oi-  lobster  butter. 

—  99  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Autrichlenne,  Wh.  Austrian,  fresh  bread  crumbs  w.  sour 

cream  spiced. 
Batarde  Wh.  Half  hoi.  sa.  and  half  butter  sauce.  mocK: 

Hollandaise  sa. 
Bavaroise,  Pi.  Batarde  sa.  w.  horseradish,  aromatic  and 

crawfish  butter. 
Bayonnaise  Pi.  Cold  mayo.  w.  chopped  ham  and  sweet 

peppers,  very  fine. 
Bearnaise,  Ye.   (S'ee  Gastric),  Use  6  yolks,  1  lb.  melted 

butter,   beat  in   bain-marie,   chopped   taragon,   chervil, 

sea. 
Beauharnais,  Gr.     Bearnaise  w.  taragon  butter. 
Bechamel,  Wh.  This  is  the  base  of  cream  sauce    (read 

heading  of  sauce). 
Belleclaire,  Pi.  Cold  mayo.  w.  chili  sa.  chopped  taragon 

and  chervil,  highly  sea. 
Bengal,  Br.  In  bottle.  Preserved  sa. 

Berchoux,  Gr.  Cre.  sa.  w.  chivry  butter  or  half  chivry  sa. 
Bercy,  Wh.  Chopped  shallots  and  parsley,  moisten  white 

wine  redu.  or  fish  stock,  add  veloute  sa.  lemon  juice, 

butter,  sea.   (See  Bercy  butter)   for  meat. 
Berlinoise,  Ye.  Cold  mayo.  w.  mustard  and  currant  jelly 

cut  in  dice. 
Beurre,  Ye.  Mock  hollandaise  sa.  (See  batarde). 
Biere,  Br.  Essence  of  fish  redu.  w.  beer  thick  w.  ginger- 
bread or  stock  of  fish  cooked  w.  beer. 
Bigarade,   Br.       Demi-glace   sa.  w.   orange  peel     in  Jul. 

w.  orange  juice. 
Blanquette,   Wh.   Veloute,   make  w.   stock  of   article   w. 

liaison,  add  mu.  small  white  onions  and  chives. 
Bohemienne,  Ye.   Cold,  mayo,  and  bechamel  sa.  w.  mu- 
stard chopped  taragon,  highly  sea. 
Bonnefoy,  Wh.       Bordelaise   sa.    w.    white   wine,   sliced 

mu.  and  chopped  taragon.   (See  bordelaise). 
Bordelaise,  Wh.  or  Br.  Chopped  shallots,  moisten  w.  wh. 

or  red  wine  and  crushed  pepper,  redu.  add  espagnole 

sa.    strained,   add   poached   beef   marrow   in    slices   or 

dice. 
Bourgeoise.  Br.  Redu.  red  wine,  thi.  w.  kneaded  butter, 

small  onions  and  mu.  for  fish,  baked. 

—  100  — 


SAUCES 

Bourguignonne,    Br.    (Same    Boiirgeoise),    for    eggs    add 

butter,  for  meat  add  stock. 
Bourguignotte,    Pi.    Fish    sa.    or    Normande    sa.    w.    fish 

essence  and  crawfish  butter  or  lobster  butter. 
Bread    sauce,   Wh.    Milk   or   cream,   fresh   breadcrumbs, 

1  onion  w.  cloves,  and  butter,  cook  10  minutes,  sea. 
Bretonne,  Br.  Chopped  onions  w.  espagnole  sa.  and  torn. 

sa.  w.  garlic  and  chopped  parsley. 
Brighton,  Br.  Redu.  vinegar  w.  aromatic,  espagnole  sa. 

w.  mustard,  highly  sea. 
Cambridgs,  Gr.     Cold  gribiche  sa.,  beat  w.  cooked  yolks 

of   eggs   and    chopped   anchovies,   highly    seasoned. 
Caneberge,  Re.  (See  cramberies). 
Canotiere,  Wh.     Fish  stock  w.  kneaded  but.  w.  mu.,  a 

small  white  onion. 
Capres,  Wh.  Capers  w.  butter  sa.  or  veloute  sa. 
Capetienne,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  torn.  sa.  chopped  tara- 

gon. 
Cardinal,  Pi.       Divers  white  sa.  w.  lobster  butter. 
Castiliane,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  tom.  sa.  add  chopped 

green  and  sweet  peppers  and  ham. 
Cataiane,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  tom.  sa.  w.  chopped  onions, 

green  and   sweet  peppers,  jul.  of  peeled  orange  and 

lemon  juice. 
Catsup,  Br.  Preserved  in  bottle  or  mu.  essence  w.  green 

walnuts. 
Celery,  Wh.  Cre.  of  veloute  sa.  w.  celery  cut  in  dice  or 

pu.  w.  stock  of  article. 
Cerises,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  pitted  sour  cherries  and 

poached. 
Champagne,  Br.  Reduce   the   stock,   add  champagne  w. 

demi-glace  sa. 
Champignons,  Br.  or  wh.  W.  mushroom  heads  or  sliced 

according  to  article. 
Chantilly,  Wh.  Cold  mayo.  w.  whipped  cre.  or  hot  hoi.  sa. 

w.  whipped  cre. 
Charcutiere,  Br.  Piquante  sa.  w.  chopped  onions,  jul.  ol 

pickles  and  French  mustard. 
Chasseurs,  Br.  Chopped  shallots  w.  sliced  mu.  moisten 
-  w.  wh.  wi.  add  demi-glace  sa.  w.  tom.  chopped  taragon 

and  parsley. 

_—  101  — 


GANCE  L'  S      C  U  L  IN  A  R  Y      E  N  C  T  C  L  O  P  E  D  I  A 

Chaseresse,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  champagne  and  game 
.    essence. 
'Chateau,  Br.  Meat  glace  of  beef,  ch.  or  veal,  according 

to  article  w.  lemon  juic€,  sv.^eet  butter  sea. 
Chaud-froid,  Br.  gr.  Pi.  or  white,  according  to  article,  re- 

du,  stock  w.  sauce  and  gelatine  if  necessary  or  mayo. 

gr.  or  V.'.  torn.  (Read  heading  of  sauce). 
Chevreuil,  Br.  Pepper  sa.  w.  add  red  wi.,  marinade  of 

game,   currant   jelly. 
Chlii,  R.  Preserved  in  bottle  or  redu.  peeled  and  pounded 

torn,  w.'  aromatics,  highly  sea. 
Chivry,  Gr.  All  sa.  w.  green  fi.-herbs  or  gr.  butter. 
Chcron,  Pi.       Bea.  sa.  w,  redu.  torn,  or  Cheron  sa. 
Chutney,  Br.  Preserved  in  bottle.  (Major  Grey). 
Civet,  Br.  Esp.  sa.  w.  marinade  of  game  and  thickened 

vv.  blood  of  game,  according  to  article. 
Clertr.ont,  Br.  Smothered  shredded  onions  w.  esp.  sa. 
Cocticn,  Reduce  stock  from  braised  divers  articles    and 
,     add  to  sauce. 
'Colbert,  Br.  Same  chateau  sa.  w.  fi.-herbs,  colbert  french 

term,  use  only  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter. 
Cocktail,  Re.  Cold,  use  tom,  catsup,  Worcestershire  sa. 

horseradish,   chopped  green   peppers,   tobasco,   highly 

sea. 
Corail,  Pi.  Coral,  wh.  sa.  add  chopped  lobster  coral,  and 

lobster  or  shrimps  in  dice. 
Coulis,  Br.   Pi.  wh.   according  to   article.    (See   coulis). 
Crabes  d'Huitres,  Pi.  Oyster  crabs  saute  w.  Newburg  sa. 

Used  for  meat,  chi.,  fish,  etc. 
Cramberies,  Re.  (See  Airelle)  for  jelly  redu.  w.  sugar.  .. 
Cream,  Wh.  Bechamel  redu.  w.  cream  thi.  according  to 
article. 
Creole,  Re.  Garnishing  and  sauce   acocrding  to  article. 

Shredded  onions,'  gre.  and  sweet  peppers,  ham  in  dice 

smothered,     add   pounded   tom.    sa.      and    sliced    mu. 

Using   for  meat,   chi,,  fish,   etc. 
Crevette,  Pi.       Shrimps,  fish  sa.  w.  shrimp  butter. 
Cumberland,  Br.  Hot  or  cold,  redu.  aromatics  w.  port  wi- 
ne, add  curant  jelly,  mustard,  orange  and  lemon  juice. 

orange  and  lemon  peel  cut  in  jul.,  highly  sea. 
Curry,  Ye.  Veloute  w.  add  curry  powder.  (See  Indienne). 

—  102  — 


SAUCES 

Danoise,  Wh.  Danish.  Cold  apple  sa.  w.  grated  horsera- 
dish and  whipped  crea. 
D'Antin,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  chopped  mu.  and  truf,  add 

fi.-her.  chives  dominating. 
Demi-glace,   Br.   Espagnole   sa,   redu.    skim   until   clear, 

add  sherry,  madeira.     Read  heading  of  sauces. 
Diable,  Br.  Deviled,  chopped  shallots,  redu.  w.  wh.  wi. 

add  demi-glace  sa.  cayenne  pepper,  strained,  w.  butter. 
Diane,   Br.   Pepper   sa.   w.   game   essence,   add   whipped 

cream  gar.  w.  crescent  of  truf.  and  white  of  eggs. 
Dieppoise,  Pi.     Normande  sa.  on  fish  w.  shrimp  butter. 
Dino,  Br.  Cold,  apple  marmalade  w.  orange  and  lemon 

juice,  orange  and  lemon  peel,  cut  in  jul.,  cooked  in 

sherry. 
Diplomate,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  lobster  butter,  truf.  and 

lobster  in  dice. 
D'Orleans,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter  and  ch. 

glace  meat,  or  supreme  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter. 
Duxelies,  Br.  Chopped  shallots  and  mu.  w.  Espagnole  sa. 

fi.-herb.   (S'ee  Mirepoix). 
D'Uzes,  Wh.  Gastric  w.  madeira  w.  hoi.  sa.  and  anchovy 

butter. 

Ecossaise,  Four  sa.  different  colors,  according  to 
article  or  hoi.  sa.  w.  brunoise.   (See  mirepoix). 

Energique,  Br.  Preserved  French  sa.  in  bottle. 

Escofier,  Preserved  in  bottle,  divers  varieties. 

Espagnole,  Br.  This  is  the  base  for  brown  sauces.  Read 
heading  of  Sauces. 

Essence,  All  coctions  of  juice  of  meat,  ch.  fish,  vege,  etc. 
redu.,  add  according  to  article. 

Estragon,  Br.  or  wh.  All  sa.  veloute  sa.  w.  taragon  leaves 
or  chopped,  or  meat  juice,  cl.  or  th. 

Extra  it,  B.  Extract,  all  juice  redu.  of  meat,  ch.  fish, 
game,  culinary  terras,  meat-glace,  ch.  glace,  fish-glace, 
game-glace. 

Fenouil,  Wh.  Fennel.  All.  sa.  Veloute  sa.  w.  scalded 
fennel  and  chopped. 

Figaro,  Pi.  Cold  mayo.  w.  redu.  tom.  and  anchovies  es- 
sence or  hoi.  sa.  w.  redu.  tom.  w.  cooked  celery  jul. 
highly  sea. 

—  103  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Financiere,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  truf  essence  and  stock, 

acording  to  article. 
Fines   Herbes,  Wh.  and  Br.  White  wine  sa.,  demi-glace 

sa.  or  gravy,  w.  chopped  fin.-herhs,     chives,     chervil, 

parsley,  taragon,  according  to  article. 
Fi noise,  Pi.  Veloute  sa.  w.  paprika,  chopped  green  and 

sweet  peppers  w.  fi.-her. 
Fish,  Wh.   Poissons  sa.  normande  sa.  or  veloute  sa.  w. 

fish  stock.     (See  the  name). 
Flamande,  Wh.  Veloute   sa.  w.  redu.  mussel  juice,  fish 

glace,  french  mustard,  lemon  juice,  chopped  parsley... 
Flavignon,   Br.    (See  giblet  sa.)    Strained,   highly   sea. 
Fleurette,  Wh.  Thick  fresh  cream  or  ere.  sa.  w.  chives. 
Fond,  Wh.  or  br.  Culinary  term  for  stock,  veal,  gravy, 

fish,   etc.   Put  in   casserole     sliced     onions,     carrots, 

thyme,  bay  leaves,  pepper   balls,  then  the  meat,  cover 

smother   slowly,   for   brown   sa.   add  water,   sea.   also 

coction   of  meat  according  to   sa. 
Foyot,  W.     Bear,  sa.,  beat  w.  meat  glace. 
Francaise,  Pi.  Bea.  sa.  w.  redu.  tom.  and  onion  pu.  thick 
Francois  1st.,  Pi.  Wh.  wi.  sa.  w.  pounded  tom.  and  sliced 

mu. 
Fumet,  Essence  stock  flavor  of  fish,  game,  etc.   sa.   w, 

essence  of  game  or  fish,  truf.,  etc.     See  "Extrait." 
Gaiipoli,  Wh.  Half  hoi.  sa.  half  mayo,  with  anchovies  in 

dice. 
Gascogne,  Pi.     Duxelles  w.  Veloute  sa.  and  tom.  pu.  w. 

truf.  in  dice.     (See  Duxelles). 
Gastric,  Composition  for  bea.  sa.  and  hoi.  sa.   (See  gas- 
tric mirepoix). 
Genoise,  Br.  Esence  of  fish  w.  redu.  red.  wi.  add  esp.  sa. 

anchovies,  butter  w.  coction  of  fish. 
Genevoise,  Wh.  or  br.  Same  genevoise  above  w.  wh.  wi. 
Giblet,  Br.     Chopped  onions,  ch.  liver  and  gizzard,  fry, 

add  esp.  sa.  sea. 
Glace,  Br.    (See  Fond)    Red.  all  stock,   ch.  meat,  game, 

fish,  do  not  salt. 
Gloucester,  Wh.  May.  w.  sour  ere.  lemon  juice,  Worces- 
tershire sa.  chopped  fennel. 
Godard,  Br.  Rich  demi-glace  sa.  w.  champagne  or  good 

wh.  wine. 

—  104  — 


SAUCES 

Gourmet,  Pi.  Gastric  w.  reduce  torn,  pulp,  ch.  glace 
strained,  butter,  chopped  taragon. 

Grand  Veneur,  Br.  Poivrade  sa.  w.  marinade,  acocrding 
to  article,  thi.  w.  game  blood. 

Gratin,  Br.  Duxelles  composition  according  to  article  or 
wli.  sa.  w.  bread  crumbs  and  cheese  on  top,  baked. 

Gravy,  Br.  Coction  of  roast  meat,  ch.  etc.  clear  or  thi. 
(See  jus  coction  or  stock.) 

Gribiche,  Cold.  6  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  crushed, 
French  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  beat  w.  i^  qt.  oil, 
vinegar,  chopped  parsley,  taragon,  chervil,  caper  ger- 
kins,  wh.  of  egg,  cut  in  Jul. 

Grimod,  Ye.    Hoi.  sa.  w.  saffron,  highly  sea. 

Groseilie,  Br.  (Currant)  Esp.  sa.  w.  game  essence  and 
currant  jelly  or  for  fish,  sa.  w.  fresh  gooseberry. 

Hachee,  Wh.  or  br.  Piquante  sa.  w.  chopped  tongue,  gr. 
and  sweet  peppers,  hard  wh.  eggs  or  wh.  w.  Veloute. 

Harvey,  Preserved  in  bottle. 

Havanaise,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w,  chopped  onions,  fry,  gr. 
and  sweet  pepper,  tom.  and  mu.  in  dice. 

Haw  Haw,  Preserved  in  bottle. 

Hollandaise,  Ye.  Gastric,  5  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  in  bain-ma- 
rie, 1  pound  good  butter,  sea.  strained,  add  lemon  jui- 
ce, ere.  or  water  is  necessary. 

Homard,  R.  Lobster,  all  sa.  ere.  fish,  Veloute  w.  lobster 
butter,  lobster  cut  in  dice  or  coral. 

Hongroise,  Pi.  Cre.  or  veloute  sa.  w.  smothered  onions, 
paprika,  sea.  strained,  butter. 

Horly,  R.     Reduce  tom.  sa.  meat-glace,  sea.,  butter. 

Horseradish,  Wh.  Grated  horseradish  w.  crea.  or  Velou- 
te sa.  etc. 

Hotel iere,  Wh.  Bercy  sa.  add  duxelles  composition. 

Huitres,  Wh.  (Oysters),  All  wh.  sa.  w.  oysters,  remove 
beard. 

Huile,  Tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  3  tablespoons  of  olive 

oil,  salt  and  fresh  ground  pepper. 

Hussarde,  Br.  Minced  onions,  shallots  and  fried  ham, 
add  esp.  sa.  w.  tom.  sa.  grated  horseradish,  highly  sea. 

Imperatrice  (See  Ambassadrice),  w.  stock  of  article. 

—  105  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Indienne,  Ye.  My  method,  minced  onions,  fry,  minced, 
apples,  curry,  green  peppers,  add  Veloute  sa.,  tom., 
grated  fresh  cocoanut  and  milk,  Worcestershire  sa., 
Bengal  Chutney,  reduced,  sea.  and  strained  (See  Con- 
diment). 

International,  Preserved  in  bottle. 

Isigny,  Wh.  Hoi.  sa.  ,  use  sweet  butter  and  thick  cream, 
sea. 

Italienne,  Br.  Duxelles  composition  w.  tom.  in  dice  esp. 

sa.  w.  tom.  and  glace-meat. 

I  voire,  Ivory  sup.  sa.  w.  redu.  tom.  and  ch-glace, 

Joinville,  Pi.  and  Wh.  Normande  sa.  and  normande  sa. 
w.  crawfish  or  lobster  butter. 

Juive,  Br.  Chopped  onions  fried,  redu.  vinegar  and  red 
wi.  add  esp.  sa.  fried  bread  crumbs,  peeled  almonds 
and    seedless  raisins. 

Jus,  Gravy  of  beef,  veal,  lamb,  game,  ch.  for  roast,  th.i 
acording  meat. 

Juvigny,  Wh.  Hoi.  sa.  or  butter  sa.  w.  chopped  capers 
and   fi-herbs. 

Ketchup,  R.  Tomatoes  ketchup.  Preserved  in  bottle  or 
pulp  of  tom,  redu.  w.  spices  and  aromatics,  highly  sea. 

Laguipierre,  Wh.  Hoi.  sa.  w.  glace  of  fish. 

Laperouse,  Br.  Bordelaise  sa.  highly  sea.  w.  chopped 
tarragon,  according  to  stock,  meat  or  fish. 

La  Valliere,  Br.  Chasseur  sa.  w.  jul.  of  truf  and  chopped 
taragon. 

Liaison,  Ye.  Composition  cream  w.  yolks  of  eggs  and 
sweet  butter,  whipped  and  strained,  used  for  thicken- 
ing or  binding  white  soups  and  sauces  the  last 
minute. 

Lithuanienne,  Br.  Colbert  sa.  w.  fried  bread  crumbs  and 
fi-herb. 

Livonienne,  Br.  Colbert  sa.  w.  chopped  fennel  and  sour 
ere. 

Lombarde,  Wh.  All  sa.  w.  chopped  truf  and  fi-her. 

Luculus,  Br.  or  wh.  Rich  sa.  gar.  w.  very  small  ch.  quen 
foi-g.  in  dice,  balls  of  truf.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 
Xeres  wine. 

Lyonnaise,  Br.  Sliredded  onions,  smothered,  w.  wh.  wi., 
espagnole  sa.  fi-her. 

—  106  — 


OJ'j  SAUCiLS  )X/. ;. 

Mad  ere..  Br>  Madeira.  Denii-^iace  redu.;syV.  inacL  or  slie^'^y,.' 

r.^ agents,  Pi.  Bea.  sa.  w.  reclu.  torn,  and  fi-herb,  .,       ,    .'. 
Magny,  Wh.  All  sa,  w.  essence  of  truf.  and  fi-iierb.„; 
Maintenon,  All.  sa.  w.  Soubise  sa.  or  mu.  pu.  ;  i^i 

"vlajordorne,  Br.  FfeV/oer  sp.  w.  sliced  niiit?lirocr.is  TSee 
J'oivfade).  iyi 

iviuitaise^  Ye.  n-Oi,  fed.  >.% .  uiaiige  juice  aiid  ^laiL-cij.  uitiuge 

;     -peel.  •:iijT.;irn^   ■;(.»   [ftff'i    ;-;;r:i;iv    f  ;-:;■' i  ■'•  ri -'      '!:]    .n  c;  rjO'^  i  f;- 

Maritaioc,  Br.  Gibletsa.  strained      add  butter.-      -   -, 

Marcsau,  Bv.  Demi-giace,sa.  w.  g£,me  pu.  garlic  flavor. 

Maryland,  Ye.  Newburg  sa;.,  w.  niaryland  butter. 

MarseiUiise,  Bi*.  Chopped  onions,  fry  in  oil^  reau.  rt^^  .vx. 
ti-iitr..  esp.  s.a»  torn,  and  anchovies  in  dice,  garlic, 

Marengo,  R.  Pounded  torn.  fr;ied  in  oil  w.  mu.  and' iruf 
sliced;  ^Same    ch.  .mareng.,    onions,    shallots,   garlic. 

Marin isre,  Wh.  Chopped  shallots  moisten  w.  mussel  juice 
or ,  fish  stock,  thJl* ,  w.  fcneaded. . butter,  f i-her.  (shallots 
only  warm).  -  ..luoi  . -z      ■.      u. :-  /  .,  i 

iVlatelcte,  Br.  or  wh.  Wine  sa,  w.  coction  according  to 
1  article,  thi.  w.  kneaded  butter;  -.?;  . 

Matignon,  Br.  or  wh.  Coction  or  stock  according  to 
article.  (See  rairepoix.)     ....,,   ,     .,  ^  ^ 

Maximi;ien,  R.  Pu.  of  sweet  pepp^S,  beat  ,w.  oH' 

or  hoi.  .sa.,;     ,;  •  .  ::i'r .,]    :,;  ,j 

Mayonnaise,,  Ye.  6  yolks  ra  ,  se^.,  beeit,^.  1   qt. 

good  olive  oil,  sea.  w.  cayenne  pepper,  use,^6od  JyiVffi- 
-gardarjlQ.mon  juice.    ,  .  ...-,,,.'''. 

Medicis,  3r.  Bourguignonne  w.  pounded  torn,  and  green 
peprers  in  dice.  h   .;       .  ;      , 

Melba,  Ye,    Newburg  w.  oyster  cra,b  and  lobster  butter.- 

Menagers,  Br.  or  wh.  All  sa.  w.  wine  and  stock,  made 
imraedia.tely,  thi.  w.  kneaded  butter,  sea. 

Menthe,  Gr.  Mint  sa.  cold  or  hot,  chopped  mint,  vine- 
gar, water,  sugar,  jelly  ,orange,  according  to  articlei 

,   ■■  or  chopped  mint  w.  gravy.  ^ ',  r-  >/, 

Merga,  Br.  Coulis  of  beef  w.  chopped  gre.  peppers  and 
capers,  highly  sea. 

Mexicain,  R.  Redu.  tom.  w.  chopped  gr.  and  sweet  pep- 
pers, tobasco,  highly  sea. 

Mexicaine,  Ye.  Cold  mayo.  sa.  w.  anchovies  essence  and 
chopped  gr.  and  sweet  peppers, 

—  107  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mignonette,  Cold  shredded  shallots,  coarse  white  pepper 

and  good  vinegar. 
Milanaise,  Pi.  All.  sa.  w,  torn.  sa.  and  bleached  pignons. 
Mirabeau,    Br.    Denii-glace    sa.    w.    torn.    sa.   and  essence 

of   anchovies,    lemon   juice,    butter. 
Mirepoix,  Br.   or  wh.    (See   Mirepoix)    add   w.   stock  ac- 
cording to  article. 
Mi  ronton,  Br.  Shredded  onions  fried  or  smothered,  mois- 
ten w.  vinegar,  add  esp.  sa.  highly  sea. 
Moele,  Br.  Marow  sa.  use  bordelaise  sa.  or  chateau  sa. 

marrow  poached  sliced  or  dice. 
Mogadon,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.  mu.  truf,  foi-gr.  in  dice. 
Montglas,  Br.  or  wh.  sa.  and  coction  according  to  article 

w.  foi-gr.  and  truf  in  dice. 
Monaco,  R.  Redu.  torn,  and  demi-glace  truf.  and   sweet 

peppers  in  dice  or  aces  made  truf.  and  sweet  peppers. 
Montebello,  Pi.    Redu.  tom.  w.  champagne  w.  Bea.  sa. 
Montigny,  Pi.  Veloute  sa.  w.  tom.  sa.  and  meat-glace,  fi- 

herb. 
Montpensier,  Or.  Supreme  w.  asparagus  butter  and  truf 

in  dice. 
Montreuil,  Pi.  and  wh.  Normande  sa.  and  normande  w. 

crawfish  butter,  colors  seperated. 
Mo  may,  Wh.  Bechamel  or  ere.  sa.  w.  grated  cheese. 
Moscovite,   Br.     Pepper   sa.   w.    game   essence,   almonds 

and  currants. 
Mousquetaire,    Ye.    Cold   mayo.    sa.   w.    cooked    shallots, 

meat-glace,  chives,  highly  sea.  or  br.  hot  Provengale 

sa.  w.  anchovies  in  dice. 
Mousseline,  Wh.  Hoi.  sa.  lengthened  w.  whipped  ere.  or. 

cold  may.  w.  whipped  ere. 
Mousseuse,  Wh.  6  yolks  of  raw  eggs  to  1  quart  of  ere. 

beat  in  bain-marie,  sea. 
Moutarde,  Ye.  Butter  sa.  or  hoi.  sa.  w.  French  mustard. 
Nantaise,   Pi.     Normande  sa.  w.   shrimp  butter,   chervil 

and  chopped  taragon. 
Nantua,  Pi.     Cre.  sa.,  beat  w.  crawfish  butter. 
Napolitaine,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  tom.  and  curant  jelly 

marsala  wi.  grated  horseradish. 
Newburg,  Ye.    (See   Mousseuse  sa.)    w.  sherry  wine     if 

necessary  add  cre.  sa. 

—  108  — 


SAUCES 

Nigoise,  Wh.  Veloute  w.  fumet  of  fish,  anchovies  in  dice 
capers  and  fi-her. 

Nivernaise,  Br.  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  apples  and  green  pep- 
pers in  dice. 

Noir,  Black  sa.  cold  mayo.  w.  pu.  of  walnuts  (preserve). 

Noisette,  Wh.  Supr.  sa.  w.  hazelnut  butter.  (See  Noi- 
sette.) 

Nonpareil,  Wh.  Supr.  sa.  w.  truf.  mu.  white  of  egg  cut 
in  dice,  capers  and  chopped  coral. 

Normande,  Wh.  Normande  sa.  bass  of  fish  sa.  according 
to  article,  fumet  of  fish,  redu.  mussel  juice,  mu.  etc. 

Norvegienne,  Wh.  Cold  vinaigrette  sa.  w.  chopped  hard 
eggs  and  grated  horseradish. 

CEufs,  Wh.  Eggs  sa.  ere.  sa.  w.  chopped  eggs. 

Onions,  Br.  or  wh.  Shredded  onions,  smothered,  pu.  w. 
rice  or  ere.  sa.  used  for  soubise. 

Olives,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.  torn,  and  pitted  olives,  stuffed 
or  sliced. 

Orange,  Br.  See  Bigarade  sa.  Vv^  orange  cut  in  quarters. 

Oriental,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.  prunes  and  gre.  and  sweet 
peppers  in  dice, 

Oriy,  R.  Tom.  sa.  and  sup.  sa.  w,  glace-meat. 

Oscar,  Br.  Preserved  in  bottle. 

Oxford,  Br.  (See  Cumberland)  w.  orange  and  lemon 
peel  grated,  highly  sea. 

Oyonnaise,  Br.  Cold  may.  w,  game  pu.  and  mustard. 

Pain,  Wh.  Bread  sa.  (See  bread  sa.). 

Palermitaine,  R.  Redu.  tom.  w.  vinegar,  yolks  of  raw 
eggs,  beat  w.  butter,  highly  sea. 

Paprika,  R.  Cre.  sa.or  veloute  sa.  w.  paprika. 

Parisienne,  R.  Bea.  sa.  w.  onions,  pu.  or  soubise  sa.  tom. 
pu.  and  fi-herb. 

Pauvre   Homme,  Br.  Piquante  sa.    (See  charcutiere). 

Perigueux,  Br.  or  wh.  All  sa.  w.  truf.  Perigords  sa.  Peri- 
gourdine  according  to  article. 

Pepper,  See  Poivrade  sa. 

Persil,   Wh.  Veloute  w.  chopped  parsley  or  cre.  sa. 

Persilade,  Cold  vinaigrette  w.  chopped  eggs  and  fi-herb. 

Pi  cad  illy,  Br.  Piquante  sa.  w.  English  mustard  and  an- 
chovy gherkins  cut  in  dice. 

—  109  — 


GANCE L'S     C  U  L  I  MAR  Y      E  N  C  Y  C  L  O  P  E  D  I  A 

Piemontaise,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.  ancliovies  pu.  and  gfated, 

PiemoRtaise  trui.  '^qr.) 

Pigr.ofls,  Br.  Boidelaise  sa.  strained  w.  bleached  .pigflons: 
Pimentade,    Br.    Same    "Pi^nentcs"    add   pu.    of   peppers 
or  Pimentos,  Br.  Ef--     ~      -       "opped  §t.  and  swee- 
pers and  ii-herb.  .  ; ; 
Poisso.ns,  Bjse  of  lisii  sa.  Norraande  sa.,  etc.       i.-jm^-. 

Poivrade,  Br.     Peppe-^  sA.iedu.  Marinade  accprdiiiffittid^ 
article  w.  pounded' pepper  and  €sp.  sa.  'vil>  :  i 

Polonaise,  Br.  Digbt  bor<irlaise  sa.  redu.     ^^     vineg-arvl 
fried  bread  crumbs,  raisins,  almonds.  •  ' 

Pclignac,  Pi.  Ncnriande  sa.  w.  paprika  sballotfs,  niu.  jidil 

Pomme  d'Abre,  Apple  sa.  mnrniRifide  or  bp-  ^1  H'-iole  in 
pu,  strained. 

Pdinpadour,  Pi.  Sup.  sa.  u.  sliccu    :   i.   and  fi- 

ber. 

PondJchery,  Ye,  Veloute  curiy  and  torn.  sa.  w.  sweet. 
peppers  in  dice. 

Porto,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.port  wi;  and  curant  jel. 

Portugalse,'  R.  Sliced  shallots  and  mu.  fr5^  add  e^^  ..a. 
and  torn,  in  dice  or  demi-glace  w.  juJ.i)Cfii;green  and 
sweet  peppers,  orange  peej  asjd  ;'  '  .  '  ovies  and 
mu,  in  dice.  .  .    ;-  ■.    ,> 

Poulette,  Wh.  Veloute  sa.  made  w.  stock- according  tPJ 
article  and  liaison,  add  mu.  .chlyes.  .  ,-    ;     ,, 

Princesse,  Wh,  S/J9^.jS^i,>y^.;jglace/aiid  i^]a,  juice  je/ducedo 

Princiere,  Pi  N^ntua  s".  ""  '" '.  :':  ;  --"".  -  --  .-----r;-->, 
tails.  (See  Nantua), 

Provencale,  Br.  Italienn.e  ..sa..  vr.  pouiided  torn,  and  .garlic 

Rachel,  Pi.  Norrii-i.n^'sM  w.  Innsfer  coulis  aiKl  anr-Tio- 
vy  essence. 

Raifort,  Y7h.  Ho^  v>^m  auiMi  \.'.  ere.  sa.  or  VelouLe  mi.  w.  '■ 
grated  horseradish.  '  . 

Ravigote,  Gr.  Cold  (See  vinaigrette)  or  m.ayo.  sa!  french 
mu.  chopped  eggs  and  fi-herbs,  hot,  Venitienne  sa.  w. 
anchovies,  highly  sea. 

Reading,  Preserved  in  bottle. 

Reforme,  Br.  Plalf  poivrade  sa.  and  demi-glace  sa.  w. 
Jul.  of  gherkins,  tongue,  mu.,  truf.  and  white  of  eggs. 

Regence,  Y/h.  Normande  sa.  w.  truf.  essence  or  demi- 
glace  w.  truf.  essence  for  meat  or  ch. 

—  110  — 


SAUCE  S 

Reine,  Wh.  Sup.  sa.  and  ch.  essence  w.  almond  butter, 

truf  in  dice. 
Remick,   Pi.   Cold   mayo.  w.   chili   sa.   Paprika  mustard, 

Worcestershire  sa. 
Remoulade,  Gr.  Cold  mayo.  w.  french  mustard,  chopped 

gherkins,   capers  and  fi-herbs,   taragon  anchovies  es- 
sence, highly  sea.  w.  ground  pepper. 
Riche,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter  and  truf.  in 

dice  or  mayo,  and  thi.  ere.  w.  chopped  truf.,  hard  eggs 

and  fi-her. 
Richelieu,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  redu.  tom.  and  madeira 

wi.,  butter. 
Robert,   Chopped   onions   fried,   moisten   wh.   wine,   add 

demi-glace.  French  mustard. 
Romaine,  Br.     SVeet  pepper  sa.  w.  pignons,  smyrne  and 

currants  raisins. 
Rouennaise,  Br.  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  chopped  duck's  liver 

and  fi-her. 
Roux,  Br.  or  wh.  A  preparation  of  butter  and  flour,  used 

for  thickening  sauces  and  soups,  this  is  the  base  of 

roux  blanc  or  brun  (French  terms). 
Rubens,  Pi.  Normande  sa.  w.  lobster  butter  and  ancho- 
vies. 
Russe,   Wh.    Cold   mayo.   w.     grated    horseradish     and 

whipped  ere.  or  hot,  bordelaise  sa.  w.  caviar,  fennel 

and  capers. 
Sabayon,  Ye.  Sabayon,  a  kind  of  egg  punch.     Served  for 

punch,  pudding  sa.  or  sweet  dish,  preparation  5  ounces 

sugar,    2    eggs,    3    yolks,    %    quart    wh.    wi.    or    milk, 

beat  in  bain-marie,  add  liquor  or  flavor. 
Salnt-Malo,   Ye.   Normande   sa.   w.    french   mustard   and 

anchovies. 
Salmis,  Br.  Esp.  sa.  w.  game  pu.  or  essence. 
Sauge,  Br.  Sage  chopped  w.  gravy  or  demi-glace  sa. 
Saxon ne,  Br.  or  wh.     Veloute  sa.  ere.  or  demi-glace  sa. 

w.  grated  horseradish. 
Sevillane,   Br.  or  wh.   Veloute  sa.   or  demi-glace   sa.   w. 

tom.  pu.   and  chopped  sweet  peppers. 
Siberienne,   Br.   Pepper   sa.   w.   thi.    ere.   and     carraway 

seeds. 
Sicilienne,  Br.  Romaine  sa.  w.  cocoa  and  currant  jelly. 

—  Ill  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Smitane,  Br.    Russian   name   for    sour   cream,    add   pep- 
per sa. 
Solferino,  Pi.  Redu.  torn,  fi-herb.  w.  taragon,  butter. 
Soubise,  Wh.  Onion  pu.  add  Vv'.  cooked  rice  or  bechamel 

sa.  strained. 
Souche:,  Ccurtbouillon  w.  jul.  of  vege.  without  turnips. 

A  highly  seasoned  w.  wi.  to  cook  fish  in. 
Soya  or  Soja,  Japanese  ketchup.     Preserved  in  bottle. 

A  very  sharp  Indian  flavoring  sauce. 
Stanley,  Wh.   Sup.   sa.  or  ere.  w.  horseradish. 

Stock,  Coction,  braised  or  boiled   (See  Coction). 

Suedoise,  Swedish  apple  sa.  w.  grated  horseradish  mayo 
and  v.iiipped  ere.  or  hot  apple  sa.  horseradish  and  ere. 
sa. 

Supreme,  Yvh.  A  rich  v>rhite  sa.  mad.  veioute  from  ch. 
broth,  reduce  and  add  thi.  cream,  do  not  use  liaison 
of  eggs. 

Tabasco,  R.  Preserved  in  bottle.  Made  w.  Mexican  pep- 
pers. 

Tartare,  Ye.  Mayo.  sa.  beat  w.  cooked  yolk  of  eggs,  8  for 
1  quart  olive  oil,  chopped  green  onions  and  chives 
or  strained  w.  mayo. 

Tomate,  R.  Fresh  torn,  cooked  w.  mirepoix,  thi.  w.  roux 
or  corn  starch,  sea.  little  sugar,  cooked  and  strained. 

Tortue,  Br,  Turtle.  Esp.  sa.  w.  torn,  turtle  herb  strained 
highly  sea.  and  good  madeira  wi. 

Toulouse,  Wh.  All.  sa.  w.  stock  according  to  article,  w. 
cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  mu.   truf.  olive. 

TourangeMe,  Gr.  Veioute  w.  Vouvray  wi.  and  gr.  butter. 

T ruffes,  Br.  or  wh.  Sup.  w.  truf,  demi-glace  w.  truf,  etc. 

Tyrol ienne,  R.  Bea.  sa.  beat  w.  oil  and  redu.  torn. 

Valaislenne,  Br.  Esp.  sa.  w.  game  essence  and  Valais 
wi.   for  fish,   w.   veioute   and  fish  essence. 

Valeria,  Br.  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  mustard,  grated  horse- 
radish,   chives,   nasturniums,     shrimps     and      shrimp 

butter.  ,     ,    .  ^   x^ 

Valoise,  R.  Bea.  sa.  w.  meat-glace  and  shrimps,  butter. 
Vaudoise,  Br.  Genevoise  sa.  w.  redu.  court  bouillon. 
Vedy,  Br.  Cold  mayo.  w.  chopped  tarragon  and  extract 

Vedy.  ^.  . 

Veioute,  Wh.  A  rich  sa.  made  according  to  article. 

—  112  — 


SAUCES 

Venaison,   Br.    Sweet   pepper   sa.   w.   game   pu.    essence, 
fnmet  w.  currant  jelly,  according  to  article. 

Venitienne,  Gr.  Veloute  w.  herbs  pu.  or  gr.  butter  and 
coction  of  article  or  cold  w.  may.  and  pu.  of  herbs. 

Verjus,  Gr.  Juice  of  unripe  grapes  or  crab  apples,  sour 
grapes. 

Verney,    Gr.    Chivry    sa.   Jul.    of    gerkins,   mu.   truf,    ana 
cooked  white  eggs. 

Veron,  Gr.  Bea.  sa.  w.  redu.  torn,  glace-meat  and  essence 
of  anchovies. 

Verte,  Gr.  Sup.  sa.  w.  herbs  pu.  or  may.  w.  pu.  of  herb, 
highly  sea. 

Vert-Pre  or  Pre-Vert,  Gr.  Supr.  sa.  gr.  butter  and  chop- 
ped fi-her. 

Victoria,  R.  Gourmet  sa.  w.  chopped  gerkins,  capers  and 
fi-her. 

Viennoise,  Pi.  Sup  sa.  ere.  sa.  veloute  sa.  w.  paprika. 

Villageoise,  Wh.  Ordinary  blanquette  country  style,  fi- 
her. 

Villeroy,  Wh.  All.  sa.  redu.  w.  coction  of  article  w.  ge- 
latine if  necessary  for  chaud-froid  sa. 

Vi liars,  Wh.  S'up.  sa.  w.  ch.  in  dice,  chervil. 

Vinaigrette,  (See  Ravigote  sa.)  in  oil. 

Vin  blanc,  Wh.  White  wine  sa.  for  fish  w.  veloute  and 
fumet,  etc. 

Vincent,  Gr.  Cold  mayo,  add  pu.  of  fi-herb,  Worchester- 
shire  sa.  fine  champagne  brandy,  served  very  cold. 

Vin  rouge,  Br.  All  sauces  made  w.  red  wine,  according 
to  article  and  redu.  stock. 

V\/alnut,  Preserved  in  bottles. 

Waterfish,  Wh.  Court  bouillon  redu.  w.  hol.sa.  See  sou- 
chet. 

Westphalia,  Br.  Demi-glace  w.  ham  essence  and  Rhine 
wine. 

Worcestershire,  Preserved  in  bottles,  or  made  w.  redu. 
ripe  tomatoes,  whole  sliced  lemon,  vinegar,  brown 
sugar,  all  spices,  cloves,  salt  and  pepper,  cook  3  hours, 
strain,  add  glace-meat.  Put  in  bottles.  Quantity:  tom. 
10  pounds,  3  lemons,  1  pt.  vinegar,  4  ounces  sugar,  4 
ounces  salt,  1  ounce  spices,  1/4  ounce  cloves  and  1/4 
ounce  pepper. 

—  113  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Yacht  Club,  Preserved  in  bottles. 

York,  Br.  Redu.  vinegar  w.  meat-glace  and  gravy,  thi. 

fried  bread  crumbs,  lemon  juice,  parsley. 
Yorkshire,  Br.  Cold  Cumberland  sa.  hot  w.  demi-glace. 
Zingara,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  torn.  w.  jul.  of  ch.  truf, 

mu.  and  tongue. 
Ztska,   Wh.   Cold   may.   w.   English   mustard  and   sweet 

pickles  chopped  very  fine. 
Zuchette,  Br.  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  tom.  chopped  olives  and 

mu.  very  fine.  Cucumbers  cut  in  dice. 

COULIS  AND  PUREE 

Coulis  is  an  ancient  cooking  term  which  means  meat 
juice.   A  rich  stock  cullis  and  puree. 

The  coulis  does  not  contain  flour  nor  starch  and  is 
made  with  the  pure  juice  meat  or  rich  stock,  strained 
dry  with  its  proper  coction.  For  the  puree,  the  stock  is 
strained.  The  coulis  and  puree  are  given  to  invalids 
and  can  be  mixed  with  sauces,  to  make  them  more 
rich  and  succulent.  Coulis  is  not  used  much  in  modern 
cooking. 

(Cullis)   Coulis  and  Puree. 

Boeuf — Beef.         Crustaces — Crustaceans 

Gibier — ^Game.         Legumes — Vegetable 

Poisson — Fish.       Veau — Veal.       Volaille — •  Chickens 

(Note)    The   coulis   should   never   be   salted   before 
reducing. 

Boeuf,  Beef,  fried  mirepoix,  remains  of  beef,  moistened 
w.wh.  wi.  and  beef  broth.    Cooked  4  hours,  strained. 

Crustaces,  Crustaceans.  Crabs,  crawfish,  lobster, 
shrimps,  etc.  cooked  w.  wh.  wi.  aromatics,  pounded, 
add  veloute  and  wh.  stock,  strain  (if  necessary  keep 
the  meat  of  the  tails.) 

Gibier,  Game.  Mirepoix,  fry  or  roast,  keep  the  breast, 
pounded,  moistened,  w.  wh.  wi.  or  water,  cooked  2 
hours,  strained. 

—  114  — 


BUTTERg.  ANIli  THEIR    COMPOSITION 

Legumes,  Vej^etabl'e.  Ev(3ry  kiiid  of  yege table  moistened, 
w. ' 'water  B trained.  A'll 'green' :vege,     cooiced     quickly. 
White  vegs,  cooked  w.  rice  flour,  strained. 
Po;c?cn,  Pisli.  'E.y^vy  rind  cf  fish  "'.t.  ^nirPTolY  fi'ioil  and^ 
^red,  VI  ^^y 

'-■■    strain.:... 
V-  il.    Mirepo:  alfs.  IjiniicMo    or;  -  us^ 

fcoiiG,  Siiiot'ii^f'ed ' Viiite,  nioist'ene'd  w.' -v^ater  ^iid  oat>' 
meoi   cooked   3    cr   4   hours,   strained,   vory  ircod   thv 
invalid  c-  "'^ 

Vo!ai!'-    ■'  uliio  t  ^-^ 

j"  T  :npty,  1 

.   nee  or  barley  and   v.-ater.^ 
't  J!?  cocked  pound  tlie-meat'' 
lad  put  it  aga  '  one  hour  and 


^MTTERS  &  THEIR- COMPOSITION 

(Beurjesi.^^  l^V  composition) 

breviationsr  ■  Pawn,, .  i)dUMc-d.     Red.,   reduced:    Str., ; 
strained. 

Butter ;  used    for  •;   ,siipaid    ^e    fresii   and   sweet, 

good  sauces^  :.t,    vegetables  ;   and     no     deli- 

cious pastry  can  be  made  T^''itllout  it.  One  can  make 
with,  fresh^byiitejp  the -l^ut^^rs;  composed  Qf  the  follow-: 
ing  namqs,:  u^e[j3fiji,tj:eir^i^aijftlj  quantity  of  ingredient, ; 

Ai!,  Garlic,   Raw  rlfci^  ]^ound  '     "\v. 

outter  and  str.  T 

Amandes,  Airaoads,,,lig.a^iy  browned     in     oven,   pound, 

mixed  w.  butter  ahd  strained.    __,,-.,, 
Anchois,  Ancliovies.  Mixed  w,  anchovy  essence  or  pound 
.^anchovies  strained. 
Aveline,  Hazel-nuts,  lightly  browned,  pound,  mixed  and 
strained. 
Baltimore,  Terrapin  liver,  pounded,  mixed  and -strained. 

—  115  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

Bercy,  Chopped  challots  w.  redu.  wh.  wi.  meat-glace, 
lemon  juice,  paoched  marrow  in  dice,  sea.  mixed  w. 
butter  or  melted  butter. 

Brown,  Butter  in  pan  browned. 

Chivry,  Parboiled  taragon,  chervil,  shallots,  salad-burnet 
parsley,  chives,  when  cooled,  pressed,  pound,  mixed 
w.   butter,   strained. 

Colbert,  Maitre-d'Hotel  butter  w.  glace-meat  and  chop- 
ped taragon. 

Crustaces,  Grustaceans,  remains  of  lobster,  crawfish, 
shrimps,   crabs,  shells  pounded,  mixed  w.  butter,  str. 

Diable,  Deviled  butter  mixed  w.  mustard,  cayenne  pep- 
per, Worcestershire  sa.  hot,  highly  sea. 

Escargots,  Snail  butter,  chopped  shallots,  garlic,  parsley 
very  fine,  1  pound  butter,  2  ounces  shallots,  1  ounce 
garlic,  1  ounce  parsley,  fresh  ground  pepper,  salt,  test 
your   butter. 

Echaiotes,  Shallot  butter  parboiled,  pound,  mixed  and 
strained  or  chopped  and  shredded. 

Estragon,  Parboiled  taragon  cooled,  pressed,  pounded, 
mixed,  strained. 

Jaune,  Yellow,  pounded  cooked  yolk  of  eggs  w.  butter, 
strained. 

Frais,  Sweet  butter,  made  in  daisy  shape,  or  leaves,  etc. 

Herbes.  Herbs.  Parboiled,  all  herbs,  cooled,  pressed, 
pound,  mixed  and  strained. 

Legumes,  Vege.  all  cooked  or  raw,  pressed,  pound, 
mixed,  strained,  all  green  vege.  cooked  quickly  and 
cooled. 

Maltre-d' Hotel,  Hotel  men  or  head  waiters.  Mixed  w. 
lemon  juice,  meat-glace,  chopped  parsley,  ground  fresh 
pepper  and  salt.  Used  for  broiled  meat. 

Manie,  Kneaded  butter  mixed  without  being  cooked, 
used  for  thickening.  Home  made. 

Marchand  de  vin,  Wine  merchant.  Redu.  chopped  shal- 
lots, salt  and  crushed  pepper,  glace-meat,  mixed  w. 
butter,  lemon  juice,  chopped  parsley. 

Mariniere,  Mariner  style.  Same  bercy  butter  w.  fish  or 
musels,  essence.  If  necessary  use  kneaded  butter. 

Maryland,  20  hard  yolks  eggs,  pound,  1  lb.  sweet  butter, 
mixed,  strained,  used  for  terrapine  or  sauces. 

—  116  — 


BUTTERS    AND    THEIR    COMPOSITION 

Meuniere,  "Miller's  wife  style",  brown  butter  in  pan  w. 
lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

Montpellier,  See  chivry  butter,  add  chopped  gherkins, 
capers,    anchovies,    garlic    highly    sea. 

Mousseux,   Sweet  butter  beat  w.   thi.   cream. 

Moutarde,  Mustard  butter,  mixed  w.  divers  mustards,  ac- 
cording to  article  highly  sea. 

Nantais,  Melted  butter  without  being  clarified  w.  shred- 
ded chives,  lemon  juice  sea.  also  w.  shallots. 

Noire,  Black  or  browned  butter  in  pan  cooked  last  de- 
gree w.  vinegar,  capers  and  parsley. 

Noisette,  Hazelnut.   Same  aveline,  or  browned. 

Noix,  Pounded  walnuts  strained.  (Butter,  without 
lemon). 

Oil,  See  Crustaces,  use  good  olive  oil  strained. 

Paprika,  Served  only  for  cold  sauce.  Butter  mixed  w.  pa- 
prika powder. 

Pascal,  Sardine  and  anchovies,  pound,  mixed  w.  sweet 
butter,  strained,  serve  glass  stand  in  pyramid  shape 
decorated    w.    ^4  ring    of   olive. 

Piment,  Sweet  or  green  peppers,  pound,  mixed,  strained. 

Pistaches,  Pistachio  steeped  in  boiling  water,  pound, 
mixed,  strained. 

Polonaise,  Polish  style.  Meuniere  butter  w.  fried  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  boiled  eggs  and  parsley. 

Printanier,  Same  as  legumes. 

Raifort,   Horseradish,   pounded,   mixed,   strained. 

Ravigote,  Same  chivry  butter  w.  garlic,  highly  sea. 

Sale,  To  make  salted  butter  sweet,  knead  w.  fresh  run- 
ning water  until  all  salt  is  taken  out. 

Sardine,   Same   anchovies,   butter,  pounded,  strained. 

Sherry  Louis,  Famous  restaurateur  in  New  York. Deviled 
butter  for  lobster  Sherry,  French  Mustard  and 
English  glace-meat.  Worchestershire  sauce,  browned 
sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  chopped  chives,  chervil,  tara- 
gon,  parsley,  mixed  w.  butter,  highly  sea.  also  used 
galam.   butter,  palm  butter,   cow  tree  butter. 

Suedoise,  Swedish,  same  mouseux  without  cream. 

—  117  — 


G  ANGEL'S      CULINARY      E  N  G  Y  C  L  O  P  B  D  I  A 

Tomste,  Tomatoes.  Pulp  of  toni.  pQund,  mixed  w.  butter, 
strained.  .y^.jR'ii;.}   ini:-.  Moii 

Truffes,  Very  black,  pound,  mixed  w.  little  bechamel. ^.ai.,1 
and  butter,  strained.  .        ■  i 

Vegetal,  Vegetal  tree,-  b<y.mboo  butter,  cocoa  .b^utt^r,., 
galam   butter,   palm   better,   cow   tree   butter.  /^  "'  ' 

VeHitlenhe,' Chivry 'buttei^  Vr  .;bly  Sea. 

Vert,  Puree  of  herbs,  highly  r-^'i'^h  dish. 

COLORINGS  (Couleurs) 

Note.  —  Th<e  "Breton"   colors  are  the  best  in  .tlte' 
market. 

It  is  always  bet|t^r  to,  use  naturaj  coiorings  in  prefe^-c, 
ence  to  artificial,  even  the  best  artificial  .colors  ..^i^de 
fro^  .1:he;ir  >iajurio\is  ,  niatter,   fj^-e^ue]|^tly  'midergo",qom-q 
pl-ete  cliange,  during  tli^^codking  ^prqcess,^ ^^hereas ' 'rt^tu- 
ral  colors  do  hot.      ■  ■'■'        ■ ■      •    -    "  ■ 

Aiirore,  Red  and  yelloHv  mi5cedr'yfen6W  'iit-r>dDmira^?ng.  ' 

B!e«;  Bottled  blue  ;or  indigo  blue. 

Carmin,      Bottled    carmi^^ -^    o-;    pei^i..  .;    ,  r 

Kennesi  1 1  .  vr  i  > .  i  .J   •  .  9 1  v.  i  y. 

Noire,  Very  bla'ck, truffles,  pounded  with  iami)  jt 

caramel. 

Orange,  Yellow  and  red  mixed,  red  predominatliig. 

Rouge,  Bottled  red  or  pulp  of  tomatoes  or  coral  poimded 

Vert,  Bottled  green  or  pounded  taw  spinach;  juice  ex- 
tracted, poached,   do  not  boil,   strained. 


In  culinary  preparations  there  are  sei^eral  different 
kinds  of  jellies.  They  are  classed  in  different  styles  such 
as:  jelly  of  vegetables,  meats,  sweet  dishes  (entre-rnets) 
and  fish. 

—  118  — 


JELLIES 


The  name  of  the  jelly  is  determined  by  the  pre- 
dominating element  with  which  it  is  made.  One  can  add 
to  the  jelly,  calf's  feet  or  gelatine  well  washed.  Try  the 
consistance  on  the  ice  before  clarifying  and  seasoning. 

If  one  has  not  had  any  experience  in  the  making  of 


Jelly 


these  jellies  it  is  best  to  consult  this  book.  The  fat 
should  be  skimmed  off  of  the  meat  jellies  before  they 
are  clarified  to  obtain  a  nice  clear  jelly. 


CHICKEN  JELLY.   (VOLAILLE) 

Cold   water   10    quarts,   two   chickens   cut   in   small 

pieces,  1  knuckle  of  veal  without  bones,  1  skin  of  beef 

without   bones,   old  Madeira  wine,   2   calf's   feet   cut  in 

two.    Put   all   in   ingredients    sauce   pan,    season   with   a 

little  salt  and  vegetables.  Let  cook  five  hours,  strain, 

skim  the  grease  off,  clarify  with  calf's  liver  and  the 

white  of  two  eggs.  Strain  through  a  fine  cloth  and  let 

cool  in  cups  or  silver  bowls. 


JELLIES  FOR  INVALIDS.   (GELeES  DE   MALADES) 

Cook  4  calf's  feet  in  4  quarts  of  water,  until  the 
meat  is  detached  from  the  bones,  strain  the  jelly  and 
add  6  ounces  of  sugar,  1  ounce  of  salt,  1  leaf  of  mace, 
1/4 ounce  ginger  and  cinnamon,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel  and 
a  little  juice,  clarify  and  add  2  v\'hites  of  eggs;  cook  Vz 
hour,  then  put  in  cups. 

—  119  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

FOR  ALL  JELLIES  OF  LIQUORS  AND  ESSENCES 
(POUR  TOUTES   GELeES   DE   LIQUEURS   ET 
ESSENCES) 

Water  IVo  quarts,  IV2  ounce  of  white  gelatine,  12 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  juice  of  a  lemon.  Melt 
the  gelatine  in  a  quart  of  water,  add  juice  of  lemon. 
When  the  sugar  is  melted  in  the  %  quart  of  water,  beat 
the  white  of  two  eggs  and  mix  in  the  jelly.  Let  boil 
while  stirring  continually. 

Put  on  the  side  of  the  fire  V2  hour,  strain.  Never 
put  any  essences,  liquors,  skin  of  oranges  or  lemon  in 
jellies  before  they  are  clarified. 


SEASONING  AND  CONDIM  ENTATION 
(ASSAISONNEMENT    ET   CONDIM  ENTATION 

Seasoning  is  the  principal  thing  in  good  cooking; 
and  the  most  delicate  dishes  can  be  spoiled  without  it. 

The  result  of  good  seasoning  is  entirely  in  the  com- 
bination of  the  condiments  and  strong  spices,  they 
should  differ  according  to  the  style  of  the  aliment. 

MARINADE  AND  BRINE. 
(MARINADES  ET  SAUMURES) 

Brine  is  a  liquid  condiment  which  is  used  to  soak 
meats  in,  to  give  it  a  taste  of  venaison  or  to  preserve 
them. 

RAW   MARINADE.    (MARINADE  CRUE 

Raw  Marinade.  This  marinade  is  composed  of  wine 
only  and  is  used  for  braised  meats,  such  as  beef  a  la 
mode.  White  and  red  wines,  strong  Spanish  or  Italian 
wines,  Madeira.  The  meat  should  be  soaked  24  hours 
in  a  condiment  composed  of  garlic,  onions,  taragon, 
grains  of  pepper,  bay  leaf,  thyme  and  basilic.  Use  the 
marinade   in  the   cooking. 

—  120  — 


MARINADES 


PRESERVED    MARINADE. 
(MARINADE   DE   CONSERVE) 

Cook  in  3  quarts  of  wine  and  9  quarts  of  water, 
carots,  celery,  siiredded  and  pounded  garlic.  After  cook- 
ing a  half  hour  take  out  the  vegetables  and  add  the  con- 
diments named  above.  5  quarts  of  white  wine,  sliced 
lemon,  1  pound  of  salt  let  boil.  Strain  and  add  while 
it  is  hot,  1  ounce  of  boric  acid.  One  can  make  the 
quantity   one   wishes.   Use   when    cold. 

COOKED   MARINADE    FOR   CAMOUFLAGE   GAME 
(MARINADE   CUITE    POUR    IMITER    LE    GIBIER) 

In  this  marinade,  after  the  meats  have  been  soaked 
for  8  days  they  acquire  the  aroma  and  taste  of  real 
game.  Pork  becomes  a  boar,  goat  and  lamb  become 
venison. 

Mix  all  of  these  following  Ingredients  together  and 
let  boil:  3  quarts  of  vinegar  and  tarragon,  6  quarts  of 
dry  white  wine,  1  quart  of  Madeira,  8  ounces  salt, 
1  ounce  crushed  pepper,  l^/^  aromatic  meliiot,  1  ounce 
balsam,  %  ounce  sage,  6  ounces  green  skin  of  walnuts., 
4  cloves  of  garlic.  If  you  wish  to  conserve,  add  a  pinch 
of  boric  acid  to  the  quart  while  hot.  Keep  in  a  cool 
place  and  do  not  take  any  of  the  articles  out  with  the 
hands.     The  marinade  must  be  cold  before  using. 

MARINADE   FOR  BROILED  OR  FRIED  ARTICLES 
(MARINADE    POUR    GRILLADE    OU    FRITURE) 

Pure  olive  oil,  lemon,  seasoning  and  spice  according 
to  article. 

PICKLED.    (SAUMURES) 

For  pickled  articles,  white  salt  is  preferable,  but 
a  fifth  part  of  coarse  salt  is  necessary.  Salpet-er  is 
used  to  give  a  slight  natural  coloring  to  the  meat.  Sugai- 
is  used  to  give  it  flavor.   Spices  employed   for  pickled 

—  121  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

saumures  are  Juniper  berries,  bay  leaves,  coriandre, 
caraway  seed,  fennel  flower,  sage,  ginger,  cloves,  mar- 
joram, balin  mint,  savory  herbs,  mace,  cinnamon,  thyme, 
basalic,  rayrte,  rosemary  and  grains  of  pepper. 

These  substances  should  be  employed  according  to 
one's  taste.  Do  not  use  too  much. 
it  might  injure  the  flavor. 

PICKLED    MEDIUM. 
(SAUMURES   DE   FORCE    MOYENNE) 

Boil  all  of  these  articles  together  for  one  quarter  of  an 
hour,  20  quarts  of  water,  8  pounds  of  white  salt,  1  pound 
rock  salt,  3  pounds  of  sugar,  10  ounces  of  salpeter. 
Put  in  a  pot  1  pound  of  different  spices,  pound  the  seeds 
well,  pour  boiling  water  on.  cover  until  cold,  strain  the 
infusion  and  then  add  pickled  articles  when  cold. 

PICKLED  ARTICLES  VERY   SALTY 
(SAUMURES  TR^S   SALeES) 

Use  the  same  as  above.  40  quarts  of  water,  50 
pounds  of  white  salt,  2  pounds  rock  salt,  4  pounds  of 
sugar,  5  pounds  of  salpeter,  10  ounces  of  spices. 

PICKLED  COLD   (LIEBIG) 
SAUMURES  A   FROID    (LIEBIG) 

Dissolve  in  cold  water  36  pounds  of  white  salt,  8 
ounces  bicarbonate  of  soda,  45  quarts  of  water.  If  you 
use  rock  salt  put  1  pound  of  bicarbonate  of  soda. 

CURING   AND    PICKLING    FOR    HAM,    BEEF 
(3ALAIS0NS  ET  SAUMURES  POUR  JAM30N,    BCEUF) 

I  cannot  publish  here  all  of  the  methods  of  pickled 
(saumures)  and  curing  which  is  an  industry  distinctly 
apart  from  the  kitchen. 

This  mixed  method  is  perfectioned:    Cut   the   ham 

—  122  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND   SAUCES 

in  round  shape  and  pound  with  a  mallet;  salt  dry,  rub 
with  salpeter,  then  mix  some  white  salt  and  recom- 
mence two  days  afterwards,  rubbing  them  very  hard; 
ihe  third  day  rub  again  and  put  in  the  following  pickled 
saumure  when  cold  2  pounds  salpeter,  3  pounds  sugar, 
1  pound  gray  salt,  25  quarts  water,  94  ounce  spices, 
let  stand  2  or  3  weeks;  smoke  and  hang  up,  add  a  little 
more  salt  every  time  the  pickled  articles  are  used 
keep  barrel  well  covered. 

(Note).     You   can   make   large   or   small   quantities 
aocordint;   to  desire. 


FISI'I,  Garniture  and  SaiJices 

(P01S30N,    GARNITURE    ET    SAUCES) 

To  have  good  fish  sauces  and  essences  it  is  neces- 
sary to  make  a  good  stock  of  fish  (not  fish  water).  For 
sauces  put  in  casserole  a  little  butter,  minced  onion, 
thyme,  baj^  leaves,  whole  pepper,  mace,  parsley,  celery, 
fish  bones,  remains  of  fish,  cover  and  let  sweat 
10  minutes. 

Moisten  with  white  wine,  cook,  add  water  to  quan- 
tity necessary,  boil  one  hour,  strain.  For  essences  or 
reduce  fish  glaze 

All  fish  decorated  and  covered  with  forcemeat  should 
be  put  in  the  oven  for  half  a  minute  ( other v/ise  the 
decoration  would  come  off)  then  covered  with  buttered 
paper  poached.  bryW'd  ,be 

Fish  saute  in  butter  should  be  seasonedin  milk  and 
flour,  or  English  style,  with  flour,  beaten  eggs,  and 
breadcrumbs.  Glazed  fish  is  browned  in  the  oven  quickly. 
The  broiled  fish  is  shredded  or  split,  seasoned  and  dipped 
in  olive  oil  and  then  cooked  on  a  hot  broiler.  The  liver  of 
fish  is  not  eaten  much,  only  the  skate  fish  and  lota 
which  is  used  for  garnishing.  The  milt  of  the  carp, 
shad  and  herring  roe  are  edible. 

The  following  styles  of  garniture  and  sauces  can 
be  used  for  any  variety  of  fish;    ordinary  intelligence 

—  123  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

will  guide  a  chef  as  to  which  is  appropriate  for  fresh  or 
salt  water  fish.  One  must  not  forget  that  the  sauces 
make  the  fish  appetizing. 

FISH,   THEIR    SAUCES   AND    GARNISHING. 

(POISSONS,  GARNITURE   ET  SAUCES) 

Abbreviations:  Bord.  bordelalse;  cov.  covered;  cro. 
croquette;  craw,  crawfish;  dec.  decorated;  fi-fo.  force- 
meat; gar.  garnish;  ju!.  julienne;  mou.  mousseline;  mu. 
mushrooms; nor.  normande;  po.  poached;  pot.  potatoes; 
quen.  quennelles;  red.  reduced;  sa.  sauce;  thi.  thicke- 
ned; torn,  tomatoes ;truf.  truffles;  vege.  vegetable ;w. 
white. 

TIME    REQUIRED   TO    COOK 

Time  stated  in  the  kitchen  after  waiter  has  given  his 

order. 

Baked,  Split  10  to  20  minutes. 

Whole  15  to  30  min. 
Boiled,  Split  10  to  30  min. 

Whole  15  to  30  min. 
Braised,  Generally.  Whole  30  min.  large,  50  to  60  min. 
Fried,  Sliced  10  to  15  min.  Whole  small  10  to  15  min. 

large  cut  on  both  sides  15  to  30  min. 
Broiled,  Split  8  to  15  min. 

Whole  small  10  to  15  min.  large  incised. 
Poached,  Sliced  8  to  15  min. 

Whole  15  to  30  min. 
Saute,     French  term.     Fried  in  pan,  according  to  fish 
such  as  trout,  sole,  etc.  10  to  15  min. 

(Note).    All     fish     generally     with     garnishings  are 
poached  w.  stock  fish  or  wine  according  to  article. 


Adrienne,  Gar.  w.  small  shrimp  patties  Americaine  sa. 
cov.   Polignac   sa. 

—  124  — 


FISH.    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 

Ambassade,  Gar.  w.  crawfish  quen.  dec.  mu.  triif.  milt, 

cov.  Riche  sa. 
Americaine,    Gar.   w.    sliced   lobster   on   top   coy.   Ameri- 

caine  sa. 
Amirale,  Cov.  lobster  sa.  gar.  w.  craw,  tails,  mu.  truf., 

fried  mussels  and  oysters  villeroy,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Ancienne,  Generally  braised  or  poached  w.  court  bouil- 
lon sa.  and  gar.  according  to  fish. 
Andalouse,  Cov.  of  fi-fo.  w.  sweet  pepper  puree  gar.  w. 

stuf.  tom.  w.  risotto,  Normande  sa.  w.  truf.  around. 
Anglaise,  Generally  boiled  w.  melted  butter  and   boiled 

pot.  or  gooseberry  sa.  Fish  fried  English  style.   (Read 

heading  fish). 
Antiboise,  Gar.  w.  pounded  tom.  cov.  provengale  sa.  w. 

fi-herbs. 
Antoinette.  Gar  w.     shrimps  around,  cov.  cream  sa.  w. 

anchovy  butter  and  capers. 
Archiduc,  In  crustad,  fil.  w.  salpicon,  mu.  lobster,  truf. 

and  fish  quenelle,  thi,  Normande  sa.  w.  paprika,  fish 

dec. 
Argenteuil,  Gar.  w.  asparagus  tips,  parisienne  pot.  cov. 

w.  white  wine  sa. 
Ariequin,  Cov.  w.  white  wi.  sa.  w^  mixed  gherkins,  green 

and  sweet  peppers,  white  of  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 

dice. 
Astronome,    Paupiettes    styles,    sliced    tliin,    divers    stuf- 
fing Italian  sa.  w.  fish  essence,  gar.  w.  gastronome  pot. 
Aurore,    Gov.    fi-fo.    sprinkled     w.     coral,     lobster     and 

shrimp   sa.   around. 
Bahama,  Cov.  w.  shrimps  sa.  w.  mu.  shrimps, sweet  pep- 
pers, slice  or  turtle  fat  in  top. 
Bamboche,     Filet  of  fish  in   corkscrew   shape,  breaded 

and  fried,  gar.  w.  mixed  vege.  thi.  ere.   sa. 
Barillet,  Crust  of  pot.  barrel-shaped,  breaded  and  fried, 

emptied,   ring   of   anchovies   around,   gar.   w.   fish  and 

sa.  according  to  article. 
Bateliere,  In  crust  boat-shaped,  cov.  w.  mariniere  sa. 
Bavaroise,  Cov.  mousseuse  sa.  w.  grated  horseradish  and 

craw^fish  butter  or  polonaise   sa. 
Beatrice,  Gar.  around  w.  mu.  lobster,  truf.,  cov.  New  burg 

sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed. 

—  125  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Africa ine,  Gar.  w.  small  lobster  cro.  cov,  Normande  sa. 

w.  anchovy  essence,  sprinkled  truf. 
Alexandra,  Fish  cov.  w.  fi-fo.  mousseiine  dec.  Norrnande 

sa.  w.  crawfish  tails. 
Aiiemande,   (See  souchet  in  sa.)  thi.  w.  kneaded  butter. 
Alsacierma,  Stock  of  fish  thi.  w.  kneaded  butter,  gar.  w. 

choucroute  and  boiled  potatoes. 
Amelie,   Gov.   v>'.   Nantua  sa.   sliced  ivv.t.  on  top,   boiled 

parisienne  potatoes. 
Beaucaire,   Tureen   surround  fi-fo.  w.   chopped   rnw  mu. 

put  the  fish  gar.  around  mu.  glazed  small  onions  "w. 

fumet  of  fish  cov.  and  baked. 
Beaufort,   Cov.  fi-fo.   and   dec.  gar.   fish   quen.   w.   cravr- 

fish,  butter,  olives,  fried  milt,  matelote  sa.  around. 
Beau  Rivage,  Cooked  in  dish  v/.  chopped  onions,  chives, 

fumet  of  fish,  grated  parmesan,  baked. 
Bedford,     On  spinach  w.  butter,  cov.  w.  mornay  sa.  w. 

sliced  mu.  and  truf.  baked. 
Beignets,  Fritters  made  w.  milt  or  codfish  tongues   in 

batter  and  fried  cold  sa. 
Belieclaire,  In  long  crust  cov.  Mebla   sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 

glazed. 
Bernard,  Fish  incrusted  gherkins  and  truf.,  gar.  w.  fried 

mussels,   coral  sa.  around. 
Benedictine,  Cre.  sa.  w.  truf.  in  dice. 
Bengalaise,   Curry  sa.  and  bengal  chutney  w.  sliced  mu. 

and  scallops,  rice  served  separately. 
Benoiton,  Cov.  Matelote  sa.  w.  small  onions  glazed  po. 

oysters,  baked. 
Berchoux,   Cov.  w.  chivry   sa.   or  fi-herb   sa.  and  fumet 

gar.   Jul.    of   carrots    and   mu. 
Bercy,    Cooked  in   dish  w.    shredded   shalotts   wh.   wine 

fumet  fi-herb  butter,  baked. 
Biere,  Beer,  chopped  onions,  celery  and  stock  fish,  thi. 

w.  gingerbread  crumbs,  reduced  strained,  add  buttet 

cov.   fish   w.   sauce. 
BiscaVenne,   Boiled   salt  codfish  saute,  in  oil  or  butter, 

chopped    onions,    green   and    sweet   peppers,    tom.    in 

dice,  garlic  and  fi-herb.  i.3 

Blanchaille,  Whitebait,  generally  fried  dry. 

—  126  — 


FISH.    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 

Bleu,   Brook  trout  baste  without  being   scalded  w.   hot 

vinegar,  cooked  in  court  bouillon,  divers  sa.  and  gar. 
Boistelle,  Poached  w.  fumet  and  sliced  mu.  redu.  beat 

Av.   butter,   cov. 
Bombay  Duck,  Small  dry  Indian  fish,  lightly  broiled. 
BonnechosCj   Gar.    w.    fish   quen.   oysters   mu.    cov.    Nor- 

mande    sa.    Sprinkled    w.    coral. 
Bonnefemme,     Cooked  in  earthen  dish,   same  bercy  w. 

sliced  mu.  and  fi-her. 
Bonnefoy,   Saute  meuniere,   bonnefoy-sa.   around. 
Bonvalet,  See  Duglere  w.  sliced  mu.  and  taragon, 
Bordeiaise,  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  chopped  wild  mu.  and  fu- 
met or  mirepoix  bordelaise. 
Bordure,  All   fish   served  w.   border   made   of  pot.     Du- 

chesse  of  fi-fo.   sa.   according  to  fish. 
Bouchees,  Patties  fil.  w.  fish  pu.  or  milt,  divers  sa. 
Bouillabaise,  Served  as  fish  or  soup.  See  soup  Bouilla- 

baise. 
Bouiili,   Boiled   courtbouillon   for   fresh   water   fish,    salt 

water  for  sea  fish,  divers  sa.  and  gar. 
Boulangere,  Cooked  in  earthen  dish  w.  shredded  onions 

and  sorrel  w.  wh.  wi.  and  batter.  Baked. 
Boule,  Fish  stuf.  ball-shaped,  breaded  English  style  and 

fried,  cold  or  hot  sa. 
Boulonnaise,  Cov.  butter  sa.  made  w.  courtbouillon  gar. 

w.  mussels. 
Bourbaki,  Stuf.  w.  duxelles  and  fi-fo.  cov.  lobster  sa.  w. 

truf. 
Bourdaloue,  Gar.  fish  quen.  4  different  colors,  cov.  Nor- 

mande  sa.  or  cov.  4  different  sa. 
Bourgeoise,  Cooked  in  earthen  dish  w.  shredded  onions 

mu.  red.  wi.  fi-her.  and  bread  crumbs  baked. 
Bourguignonne,     Matelotte     sa.  w.   red  wine  and  small 

onions  glazed. 
Brandade,   Salt   codfish   cooked   and  pounded  beaten  w. 

olive  oil. 
Breteuil,    Saute    meuniere    w.    capers    and    fi-herb      gar. 

hazel  nuts  size  of  a  potato. 
Bretonne,  Bi-etonne  sa.  w.  jul.  of  vege.  (without  turnips) 

fish  essence  and  fi-her. 

—  127  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Breval,   Cooked  in  earthen  dish   (See  Bonnefemme)    w. 

pounded  torn,  baked. 
Briilat-Savarin,  White  wi.  sa.  w.  fumet  gar.  w.  nui.  and 

glazed  small   onions. 
Brightonnaise,  Fish  sa.  w.  English  mustard  gar.  w.  mu. 

cysters    and    small    onions    glazed. 
Brochette,    Generally    all    small    fish   in    skewer      fried, 

divers  sa. 
Buena  Vista,  Matelote  sa.  w.  pounded  torn.  mu.  head  and 

slice  of  lobster  on  top. 
Cadgery,    Cooked   w.    rice    pilaf,  cream  sa.  w.  curry    and 

fish  essence  around. 
Caenaise,   Sole  cooked   w.   chopped  fine  onions,  moisten 

w.  thi.  cream  sea.  take  out  fish  when  cooked  reduce, 

add   sweet  butter   and   chopped  parsley. 
Caisses,  In  caisses.  All  fish  dec.  on  top,  case  fil.  divers 

fish  salpicon  and  sa.  or  casserolette  bi-metal. 
Calaisienne,  Fish  stuffed  w.  duxelles  (See  Papillotes)  in 

paper  casing. 
Cancaie,    Gar.    w.    sliced   lobster,    oysters,    mu.cov.    Nor- 

mande  sa. 
Cambaceres,  Generally  large  fish  braised  w.  wine,  redu. 

add  fish  sa.  gar.  dec.  fish  quen.  mu.  truf.  olives,  cov. 

w.  sa.  and  sprinkled  w.  truf. 
Canotiere,     Bercy  sa.   gar.  w.  fried  gudgeon  and   cravv*- 

fish. 
Cardinai,  Gar.  w.  sliced  lobster  on  top,  cov.  lobster  sa. 

sprinkled  coral. 
Carmelite,     Cov.   fi-fo.   mousseline  cov.  Newburg  sa.  w. 

truf. 
Carmen,  Cov.  fi-fo.  w.  paprika,  lobster  sa.  w.  truf.  mu. 

and  shrimps  cut  in  dice  around. 
Cassolette,  S'ame  caisse.  Divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Castiglione,  See  "Chauchat",  w.  sliced  lobster  and  mu. 
Castillane,  On  dish  w.  shredded  onions,  green  and  sweet 

peppers,  cov.  genevoise  sa. 
Catalane,    Po.    on    sliced   tom.    gar.    w.    shredded   onions 

smothered  in  oil,  cov.  fumet  of  fish,  butter. 
Cendrillon,   Fish   stuf.   w.   shrimp   salpicon,   in   crustade 

slipper   shape,    cov.    fish    sa.    glazed   quickly.    Or   cold 

on  Russian  salad,  fish  dec. 

—  128  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 
^^ 

Cettoise,  Gar.  w.  pounded  torn,  find  fi-her.  around,  cov. 

lobster  sa. 
Chambertin,      Cooked    w.    cbambertin      wine    sea.    tbick 

kneaded  butter,  glazed, 
Charr.bord,  Braised  in  wh.  wi.  or  red.  gar.  w.  dec.  queii. 

crawfish  tails,  truf.  mu.  milt  carp,  around  in  bouquet. 

Normande   sa.   or   genevoise   sa.   according  to   article, 

carp  generally   used,  take  the  skin  off,  larding  pork 

between  truf.  before  cooking. 
Champagne,  Cooked  in  champagne  w.  essence  and  thi. 

w.  kn<^aded  butter  or  veloute  sa.  beat  w,   butter. 
Chanoinesse,  Fi-fo.  border  in  figure  eight  shape,  po.  gar. 

w.  salpicon  or  shrimps,  fish  on  top,  cov.  ere.   sa.  w. 

anchovies. 
Champs-EIysees,     Cov.   fi-fo.     gar.   w.   fish     quen.     and 

shrimps  cov.  Americaine  sa. 
Chartreuse,   All    moulds    decorated    w.    vegetables,    sur- 
round w.  fi-fo.  fil.  w.  cooked  or  raw  fish,  baked,  gar. 

sa.  according  to  fish. 
Chauchat,  Fish  cooked  bordered  w.   sliced   cooked   pot. 

cov.   Mornay   sa.   and   glazed. 
Chevreuse,        Escalope      of      fish      cut      chop      shaped, 

cooked,  trimmed,  cov.  w.  fi-fo.  and  breaded  on  chop- 
ped truf.  poached,  gar.  mussels,  oysters,  mu.  shrimps, 

thi,  Normande  sa. 
Chevaiiere,   Slices  of  fish  rolled  w.   fi-fo.  and  crawfish 

tails  peeled,  head  and  claws  projecting  on  top,   poachea, 
-f,  Normand  sa.  w.  jul.  of  mu.  lobster  truf,.  around. 
Chivry,  Cov.  fi-fo.  dec.  w.  taragon  leaves,  chivry  sa.  w. 

fish  glace. 
Choiseui,  Half  cov.   Normande  sa.   half  cov.  chivry  sa. 

w.  fumet. 
Choisy,  On  braised  lettuce   cov.  fish  sa.  w.  jul.  of  mu. 

and  truf. 
Ciseaux,  In  scissors  shape,  stuf.  w.  duxelle  cov.  Italian 

sa.  baked. 
Clarence,  Cov.  fi-fo.  mousseline  w.  truf.  cov.  Mornay  sa. 

and  glazed. 
Cleopatre,    Stuf.  fi-fo  w.  truf.  cov.  Normande  sa.  w.  jui. 
of  truf. 

—  129  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Colbert,  Generally  breaded  English  style   and   fried  w. 

Maitre-d'Hotel  butter  or  Colbert  sa. 
Cclinette,  Cov.  fi-fo.  w.  truf.  and  fi-her.  Nantua  sa. 
Coligny,   Marinate    in    butter   and   fried,    lobster    sa.    cu- 
cumbers salad  w.  ere.  separately. 
Combination,  Divers  fish  and  shellfish  w.  pot.  or  vege. 

served  on  same  dish  according  to  your  choice. 
Commodore,   Cov.   Normande   sa.   w.   lobster  butter  and 

oysters  crabs,  gar.   sv.  mussels  villeroy  fried  and  dec. 

quen. 
Comtoise,  Cov.  onion  sa.  w.  fish  fumet,  and  fi-her. 
Conde,  Cov.  Normande  sa.  cross  w.  tom.  pu.  on  top. 

glazed. 
Conti,  Incrusted  w.  gherkins,  Normande  sa.  around,  gar. 

pot.  croquettes  sm.all  ball  shape. 
Conti nentale,     Cov.   fi-fo.   sprinkled  truf.   Normande   sa. 

sprinkled  w.  coral  gar.  w.  oysters  and  shrimps. 
Coquelin,  Cov.  Normande  sa.  w.  paprika,  glazed,  gar.  w, 

parisienne  pot. 
Coquilles,    All    cooked    shellfish,    bordered    w.    duchesse 

pot.   or   fi-fo.    fish   thi.    w.    sa. 
Coteiettes,  Fish-fo.  in  chop  shape,  poached  or  fried  or 

salpicon  of  fish,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Coulibiac,  Russian  sturgeon  pie.  See  under  head  of  pat- 
ties "Couiibiac". 
Courbet,  Gar.  oysters  and  mu.  cov.  fish  sa.  w.  curry. 
Court    Bouillon,   A   highly    seasoned    liquor   for    cooking 

fish.   Divers   court   bouillon   made   w.    wine,   water   or 

vinegar  w.   vege.   and  aromatics. 
Couronne,  In   crown-shaped   mould,   sprinkled   or   decor- 
ated, gar.  w.  sa.  in  center,  according  to  article. 
Courtisane,  Stuf  duxelles  w.  fi-her.  cov.  chivry  sa.  glazed 

gar.   w.   very   small   pet.   croquettes. 
Creole,  See  Creole  sa.  w.  fish  essence  and  baked,  highly 

seasoned. 
Croissy,     Gar.   mussels   and   sliced  mu.   fish   cooked   w. 

chopped  onions,  cov.  fish  sa. 
Croquette,  All  kinds  filled  w.  salpicon  of  fish,  breaded. 

English  style  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Cuba,  On  mu.  pu.  Mornay  sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed. 

—  130  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE    AND    SAUCES 

Czarevitch,   In   crust   made     w.     duchesse     pot.     fried, 
emptied,      cov.      Normande    w.    paprika,    sprinkled    w. 
chopped   yolks   of   eggs   and   truffles. 
Danicheff,  Cov.  Matelote  sa.  and  pounded  tom.  zwieback 

crumbs    glazed. 
Danoise,     Cov.   Hollandaise   sa.   w.   anchovy  butter  gar. 

English  pot. 
Dantzick,  Gar.  oysters,  fish-sa.  w.  caraway  seeds. 
D'Artois,  See  under  head  of  relishes,  "Dartois". 
Daumont,  Braised  w.  wine,  cov.  Nantua  sa.  w.  fumet  gar. 

w.  dec.   quen.  truf.  mu.  trussed  crawfish. 
Dauphine,   Cov.   fi-fo.   gar.   w.   mu.   small  onions   glazed, 

small  pot.   Dauphine,  Normande   sa. 
Deauvile,   See  "Caenaise'  gar.  w.  shrimps. 
Dejazet,    Fried    meuniere    style    stars   made   w.    taragon 

on  top  or  fried  w.   Maitre-d'Hotel  w.   taragon. 
Demidoff,   Cov.   lobster  forcemeat,  dec.   fish   sa.  gar.   w. 

small   rissoles  of   oysters. 
Destaing,  Gar.  shrimps  and  truf.,  cov.  Normande  sa. 
Diable,  Deviled.  All  fish  broiled  or  fried,  served  deviled 

sa.  or  ravigote. 
Dicken,  Gar.  w.   braised  lettuce,  pot.  cut  in  dice  saute, 

cov.  Normande  sa.  w.  oyster  essence. 
Dieppe ise.    Gar.    mussels    and    shrimps,    cov.    Normande 

sa. 
Diplomate,  Cov.  fi-fo.  mousseline  in  crustade,  diplomate 
sa.  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Doria,    Saute   meuniere   style,   gar.   w.   cucumbers   saute 

in   butter. 
D'Orleans,  Stuf.  w.   salpicon   of  shrimps,  cov.  fi-fo.  dec. 

in  crustade  fil.  w.   shrimp  sa. 
Dorpat,  Cov.   w.   fi-fo.   make   stripes  on   top   w.   chopped 

parsley,  and   white    and    yolk    of    eggs,    fried    bread 

crumbs.,  fish  sa.  around. 

Dubarry,  Cov.  Mornay  sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed,  gar.  w.  milt 

and  truf. 
Duchesse,  Cov.  fi-fo.  mousseline,  Normande  sa.  gar.  dec. 

quen.  crawfish  tails  and  small  Duchesse  pot. 
Duglere,  Cooked   in   dish   w.    shredded   onions,   pounded 

tom.   and   parsley   wh.   wi.    fumet.   butter,   baked. 

—  131  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYGLOPEDIA 


Duperet,  Gar.  w.  oysters  and  mil.  cov.  Normande  sa.  w. 

lobster,  glazed   butter. 
D'Urviile,  Stuf.  w.  lobster  snlpicon,  cov.  fi-fo.  dec.  w.  a 
red   anchor  on  top,   gar.   oysters   and   mu.   dec.   qiien. 
Normande  sa.  w.  lobster  butter. 
Durham,   In   cassolette.   Thi.   Normande   sa.   sliced   truf. 

on  top,  cov.  w.  appareil  cheese  souffle. 
Durand,  Slices  of  fish  rolled  w.  fi-fo.   cooked  w.  borde- 

laise   mirepoix,   redu.   w.   butter. 
Duse,     Stuf.   w.   saJpicon  po.   cov.  Mornay     sa.     glazed 

shrimp   sa.   around,   sprinkled  truf. 
Dussoiier,  Gar.  w.  crab  meat  on  top,  po.  cov.  Americaine 

sa.  sprinkled  coral  and  parsley. 
Ecaiilere,  Gar.  w.  oysters,  Bercy  sa.  cooked  in  dish. 
Ecosaise,    Cov.   w.    Normande    sa.    4   different   colors   or 

Normande  sa.  w.  mirepoix  bordelaise. 
Egyptienne,  Saute  in  oil  w.  onions  pounded  tom.  curry 

sa.  around. 
Epicurienne,     Newburg  sa.     w.   truf.   Madeira   and   fine 

champagne  brandy. 
Epigramme,  Stuf.  or  cov.  fi-fo.  po.  cut  epigramme  shape, 

breaded    English    style,    fried,    gar.    sa.    according    to 

article. 
Epinard,    Spinach  in   branch  w.   butter,   cooked   fish   on 
top  cov.  Mornay  sa.  or  fish  sa.  glazed. 
Escabeche,    Trout   or    perch,    pickled,    fried    in    oil,    put 

in  tureen  w.  jelly,  served  cold. 
Escalope,  All  fish   sliced   scalops   style,  plain,   breaded, 

etc.  gar.  and   sa.   according  to  article. 
Espagnoie,  Same  Creole  style,  add  dice  of  ham,  gar.  w. 

ring   of   onions   fried   french   style. 
Essence,   Fish   cooked   in   the   same   coction,   redu.   with 

butter.    See   essence   sa. 
Farcis,  All  fish  stuf.  in  side  or  on  top,  salpicon  or  fish 

forcemeat,  po.  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  fish. 
Favorite,  Stuf.  w.  lobster  salp.  cov.  w.  fi-fo.  mousseline, 

dec.  w.  gold-leaf,  shrimps,  sa.  around. 
Fecam poise,  Gar.  w.  oysters  and  shrimps,  cov.  Norman- 
de sa.  scallops  of  lobster  on  top. 
Fedora,  Stuf.  fi-fo.  w.  mu.  pu.  po.  cov.  Genevoise  sa.  gar. 

w.  Sarah  Bernardt  pot.  around. 

—  132  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 

Fermlere,  Farmer  style.  Cooked  in  earthen  dish  w.  min- 
ced green  onions,  mu.  chives,  sea.  hutter,  and  wine. 
Baked. 
Fenouil,  Fish  broiled  or  poached  w.  melted  butter  and 

chopped  fennel. 
Filet,     All  fish  cut  in  fillet  gar.     and  sa.  acording     to 

fish. 
Financieere,  Generally  large  whole  fish  braised  in  wine, 
coction     redu.     add     thi.   sa.   gar.   w.   dec.   quen.  mu. 
truf.   nuts   of   oysters,   chrimps   and   trussed   crawfish 
around. 
Fines-Herbes,  Fish  cooked  w.  fi-her.  and  fumet,  add  fish 

sa.  fi-her.,  minced  chives,  chervil,  parsley. 
Fin  de  Siecle,  Cooked  in  earthen  dish  w.  green  pepper 
and  mu.  in  jul.  on  top,  po.  cov.  Normande  sa.  glazed. 
Finnoise,  Cov.  sa.  Finnoise  et  fi-herbs. 
Flamande,  Cooked    in  courtbouillon  w.  beer,  chopped  fi- 
her.  thick  kneaded  butter. 
Floreal,  Cov.  fi-fo,  dec.  taragon  leaves  and  chervil,  Veni- 
tienne  sa,  w.  essence  around,  gar.  w.  asparagus  tips 
and   cut  green   string  beans. 
Florentine.,    On    spinach     in      cream,    cov.    Mornay    sa. 

glazed. 
Florimond,  Cooked  in  paper  casing  ""Papilolte"  Maitre- 
d'Hotel   butter  and  shallots  w.   cooked   sliced  pot.  in 
oven. 
Four  (Au),  Cooked  in  oven.  All  fish  cooked  in  oven  ac- 
cording to  the  fish  or  w.  onions,  fi-her,  butter,  wine, 
sea. 
Four  re,   "Stuffed"  all   fish   stuffed  w.   salpicon   or   fi-fo. 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Foyot,  Broiled  fish  sea.  w.  paprika,  gar.  w.  Virginiennes 

pot.   Foyot   sa. 
Franklin,     Gar.  w.   quen.   mu.  truf.scallops     of     lobster, 

shrimps,  cov.  Normande  sa.  sprinkled  w.  coral. 
Fricandeau,  Kernel  of  fish,  sturgeons,  turtle,  etc.  larding 

and   braised   gar.   and   pa. 
Fritot,  Pickled   in  oil  and   lemon  juice,  fried  in  butter, 
cold   or  hot  sa.   highly  sea. 

—  133  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Frits,  "Fried"  all  kinds  of  fish  w.  milk  and  flour  or 
breaded  English  style,  fried,  cold  or  hot  sa. 

Froid,  All  fish  cooked  in  courtbouillon  dec.  whole  scal- 
lops or  sliced,  etc.  gar.  w.  divers  salad,  and  cold  sa. 

Francillon,  Broiled  fish  on  canape  w.  anchovy  butter 
torn.  sa.  w.  essence  of  fish  around,  gar.  jul.  pot. 

Fumet,  Put  butter  in  pan,  sliced  onions,  thyme,  bay 
leaves,  crushed  peppers,  parsley,  fish  bones,  remains  of 
fish,  cover  and  allow  to  sweat  for  10  minutes,  moisten 
wine  and  water,  cook.  30  minutes,  strain  and  reduce. 

Galette,  "Cake"  generally  fish  cake.  Boneless  salt  cod- 
fish add  mashed  pot.  eggs  and  butter,  round  shape, 
fried  in  butter. 

Galicienne,  Pickled  in  oil  and  fried,  cov.  Mornay  sa. 
glazed,  gar.   w.  Duchesse  pot. 

Gambetta,  Fish  medallion  shape,  cov.  fi-fo.  mousseline, 
dec.  around,  eyes  made  of  truf,  center  emptied,  filled 
w.  oysters  crabs,  Nantua  and  Venitienne  sa.  around. 

Gavarni,  Cooked  Papillote  style  w.  Maitre-d'Hotel  and 
hazelnut  butter.  English  pot.  served  separately. 

Gelee.  All  cold  fish  in  aspic  or  served  in  jelly,  divers 
styles  and  sa.  according  to  fish. 

Genevoise,  Braised  w.  white  wine,  veloute  sa.  and  coc- 
tion. 

Genoise,  Braised  w.  red  wine  on  court  bouillon,  genoise 
sa.  or  coction  of  cooked  fish. 

George  V,  Gar.  cucumbers  olive  shaped  w.  butter,  truf. 
fish  cov.  Normande  sa.  w.  English  mustard. 

Georgette,  In  emptied  long  baked  pot.  fil.  w.  crawfish 
salpicon,   cov.   Nantua  sa.  glazed. 

Gerard i,  Gar.  w.  oysters,  shrimps,  mu.  cov.  fish  sa.  w. 
fi-herbs. 

Glazed,  All  fish  cov.  w.  different  sauces,  Mornay,  white 
wine,  etc.  glazed  in  oven  or  salamander,  quickly. 

Geromoise,  Meuniere  style,  ere.  sa.  w.  fumet  chives  and 
chervil. 

Gondoliere,  Stuf.  w.  salpicon  in  crustade  boat-chaped, 
each  end  gar.  w.  crawfish,  boat  fil.  w.  craAvfish  sal- 
picon, cov.  Venitienne  sa. 

Grand  Due,  In  crustade  gar.  w.  asparagus  tips,  cooked 
fish  on  top,  cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 

—  134  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND   SAUCES 

Granville,  Gar.  mussels  and  shrimps  cov.  Mariniere  sa. 
Gratin,     All  fish  w.   cov.  Italienne  sa.  or  Duxelles     sa. 

baked  or  Mornay  sa.  gratin.  All  fish  prepared  w.  sa. 

and  crumbs,  baked. 
Grenadin,  Slices  of  fish  larded  w.  truf.  po.  gar.  and  sa. 

acording  to  fish. 
Grencbloise,  Fish  cov.  w.  sliced  mu.  saute,  cov.     black 

butter. 
Grille,  "Broiled".  All  fish  split  or  whole,  slashed  or  in- 
cised sea. 
Grimaldi,  Gar.  w.  macaroni,  mu.  truf.  scallops  of  lobster, 

thi.  Normande  sa.  cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  lobster  butter. 
Guibert,  Cov.  Normande  sa.  sprinkled  coral  and  chives. 
Guiiberte,  In  court-bouillon  w.  jul.  vege.  slightly  thi. 
Haches,  Cov.  w.  sa.  See  Arlequin  sa.  or  baches. 
Halevy,   Cov.   w.   Montreuil   sa.    sprinkled   w.   pink   truf. 

and  white  coral. 
Havanalse,  Cooked  in  dish  w.  onions,  mu.  pounded  torn. 

green   and   sweet  peppers,   baked. 
Havraise,  Gar.  w.  mussels  and  oysters,  cov.  mixed  Nor- 
mande and  Mariniere  sa.  glazed. 
Helena,  Slices  of  fish  stuf.  w.   fi-fo.  mousseline,  rolled, 

in  crust,  fil.  w.  noodles,  cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed, 
HeloVse,  Bercy  style  w.  sliced  mu.  glazed. 
Hollandaise,  Dutch  style,  boiled  fish,  melted  butter  and 

boiled  peel.  pot.  Hollandaise  sa.  if  desired. 
Hongroise,  Chopped  onions  fried  w.  paprika,  fresh  ere. 

w.   fish  essence  and  little  torn.   sa.   w.  butter. 
Hotel iere,  Cooked  in  dish  w.  Duxelles  fi-her.  and  fumet, 

baked. 
Huitres,  All  kinds  of  fish,  gar.  w.   oysters  or  sa. 
Hussarde,  Fish  stuf.     w.   chopped  cooked     onions,   cov. 

hussarde  sa.  w.   fumet,  baked. 
Hyerolse,  Cooked  in  dish  w.  shredded  leeks  cov.  fi-her. 

sa. 
Imperatrice,   Stuf.     w.   crawfish   salpicon     cov.   w.  fi-fo. 

Dec.  on  top,  supreme  sa.  w.  fumet  around,  sprinkled 

w.  truf. 
Imperiale,   Cov.  w.  Venitienne  sa.  and  fumet,  sprinkled 

Jul.  of  truf.,  mu.  and  lobster. 
Indienne,  On  border  of  rice  cov.  curry  sa.  w.  fumet. 

—  135  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Infante,  In  crustade,  fil.  w.  mu.  pu.  cov.  Mornay  sa.  w. 

fumet,  glazed. 
IsmaVIa,  Rice  pilaf.  w.   gre.  and  sweet  peppers  in  dice 
and  green  peas,  make  one  border,  fish  in  center  cov. 
fish  sa. 
Israelite,  Cooked  aromatic  court  bouillon,  reduced  beat 

w.   olive   oil,   served  in  jelly. 
Italienne,   Cov.  Italian  sa.  w.  essence,  baked  or  gratin. 
Jackson,  Cooked  in  onions  pu.  cov.  fi-her.  sa.  gar.  puff 

paste  crust  around. 
Janin    (Jules),   Cooked  in   dish  w.   Mirepoix   bordelaise 
and  Duxelles  gar.  mussels,  truf.,  crawfish  cov.  tortue 
sa.,  baked. 
Jean-Bart,  Stu.  w.   salpicon,  mussels,  shrimps  and  mu., 

cov.  Normande  sa.  glazed. 
Jeanne  d'Arc,  Dipped  in  butter,  rolled  in  bread  crumbs, 

broiled,  Nantua  sa.  around. 
Jeannette,   In   oval    crust   fil.    w.    shrimp    salpicon,    fish 
cov.  fi.-fo.  dec.  or  sprinkled  w.  taragon,  Normande  sa. 
around,  gar.  dec.  quen. 
Jolnville,  Fish  made  in  turban  shape,  salpicon  in  center, 
thi.  lobster  sa.  fish  cov.  Normande  sa.  crown  made  of 
mu.   heads  w.   shrimps   on  top. 
Jouffroy,  Cov.  w.  fish  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  gar.  w.  asp.  tips, 

slice  of  truf. 
Juive,  "Jew  style,"  cooked  in  red  wine,  redu.  w.  vinegar 
and  sugar,     thi.  w.  fried  bread  crumbs,     raisins  and 
almonds. 
Julienne,  Fillet  cut  in  Jul.  in  milk  and  flour  or  breaded 

English   style,   fried,   cold   sa. 
Lafayette,  Gar.  w.  shrimps  around  cov.  fish  sa.  w.  torn. 

sprinkled  w.  truf. 
Laguipiere,  Cov.  w.  fish  sa.  w.  fumet,  gar.  dec.  quen.  and 

mussels. 
Laitance,     "Milt"     generaly  used  for  gar.     or     deviled, 

Meuniere,  in  case,  etc. 
Laperouse,  Cov.  fi-fo.  dec.  w.  eyes  made  of  truf.  and  nose 
made  of  lobster  claw,     gar.     w,     mussels,     shrimps, 
Genoise  sa.  around  and  one  large  fish  quen.  sprinkled 
w.  coral. 

—  136  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE.  AND    SAUCES 

Larochefoucauld,   Incrusted  w.   truf.  gar.   w.  dec.   quen. 

mu.  truf.,  shrimps,  oysters  Villeroy  fried,  Normande  sa. 

w.  fumet  around. 
Latinville,  Gov.  fi-fo.   sprinkled  coral  incrusted  in  truf. 

and  essense  around,  gar.  w.  lobster  quen. 
Lausanne,   Cooked   w.    court-bouillon,   Genevoise    sa.   or 

cooked  in  dish  w.  minced  onions   and  mu.  w.   white 

wine. 
La  Valliere,  Gov.  fi-fo.  incrusted  w.  truf.,  Normande  sa. 

w.   crawfish   butter   gar.     w,   mu.,   oysters,     crawfish 

quen.  and  milt  of  carp. 
Lechartier,  W.  Bercy  sa.  w\  fi-herbs,  glazed. 
Leopold,   Gov.  fi-fo.   sprinkled  w.   corral  and  truf.,  halt 

Genoise  sa.,  half  shrimps  sa. 
Liegeoise,   Generally   trout  in  jelly.    See   Escabeche. 
Livonienne,  Stuf.  salp.  of  shrimps  and  mu.  cov.  fish  sa. 
Livournaise,  Cooked  in  dish  w.  torn.  sa.  w.  fennel,  pars- 
ley, bread  crumbs,  baked. 
LoYe  Fuller,  Fish  in  Medallion  shape  cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  w. 

ring,    made    of   chopped   truf.,    coral     and     pistachio, 

white,  green  and  pink  sa.  around. 
Lorgnette,    Kingfish,    smelts,    etc.    cut   lorgnette    shape, 

cov.  Italien  sa.,  baked. 
Louisville,  White  Chasseur  sa.  w.  fumet  gar.  green  corn 

croquettes. 
Louisette,  Cooked  in  dish  gar.  w.  mussels  and  shrimps, 

Bercy  sa.,  baked. 
Lutece,  Fish  fried  only  milk  and  flour.  Parisienne   sa. 

and  Parisienne  pot  around. 
Lyonnaise,    Quenelle    of   fish   forcemeat,    or    fish,    fried. 

saute  or  braised  w.  smothered  onions,  white  or  brown 

sa.  w.  fumet. 
Macedoine,  Fish  fried  or  poached  gar.  w.  mixed  fancy 

vege.,  thi.  ere.  sa.  w.  fumet  according  to  fish. 
Madeleine,  Cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter,  add  shrinips 

and  celery,  cut  in  dice. 
Magenta,    Cov.    fi-fo.    sprinkled    w.   truf.    and   pistachio, 

Magenta  sa.  w.  fumet  around. 
MaYda,   In   border   Duchesse   pot.    fil.   w.   jul.    of   celery, 

pounded  torn,   saute  w.  shallot,  fish  cov.  Mornay  sa. 
glazed. 

—  137  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Maintenon,  Gov.  Normande  sa.  w.  crawfish  butter,  gar. 

dec.  fish  quen.  and  nuts  of  oysters. 
Mattre  d'Hotel,  All  broiled  fish  served  Maitre  d'Hotel, 

butter. 
Manon,  In  border  Duchesse  pot.  fil.  w.  asp.  tips,  Jul.  of 

truf .  and  mu.  thi.  cr.  sa.,  fish  cov.  fine  herbsw.  fumet. 
Mantoue,  Stuf.  fi-fo.  and  Duxelles  cov.  Italien  sa.,  baked. 
Marcel !e,  Cov.  fi-fo.  dec.  in  crust,  fil.  w.  Normande  gar. 

and  sa. 
Marchand  de  Vin,  Cooked  in  dish,  same  as  "Bercy,"  w, 

red    wine   reduced   and   glazed. 
Marechale,   Cooked  cov.  Villeroy  sa.  and  breaded  Eng- 
lish  style,   fried   w.    butter,   gar.   truf.,   mu..,   shrimps, 

dec.  quen.,  supreme  sa.  around. 
Marguerites,  Fish  fried  w.  butter  on  sliced  mu.  cov.  w. 

fumet  w.  taragon  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 
Marguery,  Generally   fillet  or  sole  po.   gar.   w.   mussels 

and  shrimps  around,  cov.  fish  sa.  w.  butter,  glazed. 
Marine,  "Marinate."  All  fish  pickled  w.  olive  oil,  lemon 

juice,  broiled,  fried.     See  "Fritot"  or  pickled,   served 

cold. 
Mariniere,     "Mariner     style."     Gar.     w.     mussels     cov, 

Mariniere  sa.  or  matelote  sa. 
Marquise,  In  border  Duchesse  pot.  fish  medallion  shape, 

cov.  w.  fi-fo.,  salmon  mousseline,  dec.  shrimps  sa.  w. 

truf.  in  dice  around. 
Marseillais'e,   Cooked   in   dish   w.    chopped   onions,   tom., 

garlic,  saffron,  parsley  and  wh.  wi.,  baked. 
Martiniere,  Marinate  in  oil,  broiled,  mayo.  sa.  w.  chop- 
ped walnuts. 
Marsini,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  w.  truf.  and  sweet  peppers,  fish 

sa.  w.  nuts  of  oysters,  fi.  quen.,  truf.  around. 
Maryland,  Cov.  Newburg  sa.  w.  Maryland  butter,  gar.  w. 

small    terrapin    croquettes. 
Mascotte,  "Paupiette"  in  crustade  fil.  w.  small  quen.  and 

truf.,  cov.  w.  fish  sa. 
Massena,    Cov.    lobster    sa.    gar.    fried    oysters,    Villeroy 

and  scallop  of  lobster. 
Matelote,   Sailor  fashion.   Fish   stev/.    Small  onions   and 

salt  pork,  fried  in  butter,  fish  moistened  w.  wine  sa., 

—  138  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND   SAUCES 

cooked   according   to    size    of   fish,    thi.      w.     kneaded 

butter,  add  mushrooms. 
Mathiide,  Gov.  Mexicaine  sa.  w.  fumet. 
Mazagran,    Gov.    fi-fo.    dec,    gar.    mu.,    truf.,    Normande 

and  tom.  sa.  w.  essence  around. 
Mazarin,     Gov.   lobster  sa.,     gar.,   dec.     fish   quen.  and 

oysters  Villeroy,  fried. 
Meissonier,  Gooked  in  dish.     See  "Water  Souchet"  fish 

sa.  and  fi-herbs. 
Melba,   Breaded   w.   butter,    broiled.     Newburg     sa.     w. 

lobster    butter    and    oyster    crabs    around. 
Melunoise,   Gooked   in   dish   w.   Robert   sa.   w.    fumet  or 

Matelote  sa.,  bak6d. 
Menagere,   Gooked   in   earthen  dish     family   style.     See 

Bercy."     W.  sliced  mu.  and  red  wine.     Baked  or  salt 

codfish  w.  ere.  sa.,  sliced  boiled  eggs  and  pot.,  chives 

and  parsley, 
Mephisto,  Fish  deviled  and  broiled  or  Papillote,  diable 

sa.  or  cold  sa.  highly  sea. 
Messaiine,  On  branch  of  spinach  w.  butter  cov.  Mexicaine 

sa.  w.  tom. 
Metternich,  Demi-glace  sa.  w.  fumet  and  madeira  wine 

and  anchovy  butter,  gar.  truf.  around. 
Meuniere,   "Miller's  Wife  style,"     sea.  milk  and     flour, 

fried  w.  butter  cov.  Meuniere  butter. 
M curette,  Matelote  style,  burned  w.  brandy. 
Mexicaine,  Paupiette  style,  gar.  w.   broiled  mu.,  fil.  w. 

tom.  saute,  ere.  sa.  w.  tom.  sa.  and  green  and  sweet 

peppers  in  dice  around. 
iViinerve,    Stuf.    salpicon   of   shrimps   cov.    fi-fo.,   dec.   w. 

lobster  claws,  fish  sa.  around. 
Mirabeau,    Gov.    fi-fo.,   dec.   w.    anchovy   fillet,   truf.    and 

tarragon  leaves,  fish  sa.  and  Genoise  sa.  around. 
Miramor,  On  rice  pilaf,  sliced  egg-plant  between  the  fish, 

cov.  Meuniere  butter. 
Pvliss  Maud,  Gooked  salt  water,  mustard  Golman  sa.   w. 

shrimps,  boiled  English  pot,  cucumber  salad. 
Miss   Paulette,     Gov.   fish     sa.  w.  tom.   and     vermicelli 

glazed. 
Mobile,  Stuf.  w.  Duxelles  and  fi-her.  cov.  fi-fo.  w.  tom. 

pur.,  poa.  chivry  sa.  around. 

—  139  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Moderne,  Stuf.  lobster  salpicon,  cov.  fi-fo.,  dec,  gar.  w. 

mu.,  dec.  quen.  truf.,  lobster  sa.  around. 
Mogadon,   Cov.   fi-fo.,  dec.   truf.   on   top,  on   border  fi-fo. 

w.  truf.,  Nantua  sa.  w.  crawfisli  tails,  stuf.   heads  of 

crawfish  around. 
Monseigneur,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  Venitienne  sa.  around  and 

very  small  patties  fil.  w.  shrimp  salpicon. 
Montebello,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  Montebello  w.  fumet  aorund, 

gar.  w.  mu.,  truf.,  crawfish  tails,  nuts  of  oysters. 
Monte  Carlo,   Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  4  aces  made  of  truf.  and 

sweet  peppers  gar.  w.  03'sters,  truf.,  shrimps  sa. 
Montespan,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec,  mixed  fish  sa.  and  Bearnaise 

sa.  w.  essence  around. 
Montgolfier,  Cov.  Normande  sa.  w.  jul.  of  lobster,  mu., 

truf.,  gar.  w.  crust  ornaments  in  puff  paste  "fleurons". 
Montmorency,   Fish   incrusted  truf.  and  mu.   Italien   sa. 

around  gar.  w.  shad  roe  croquettes. 
Montreuil,  Fish  fillet  cov.   half  Normande  sa.   and  half 

shrimps  sa.  separated  by  Pinette  pot.  covered  same  sa. 
Morlaisienne,  Gar.  of  mussels  and  shrimps,  cov.  Mornay 

sa.  w.  fumet  and  anchovies,  glazed. 
Moriand,    Stuf.    w.    milt   pu.    breaded   w.    chopped    truf., 

cooked  w.  butter  on  border  Duchesse  pot.  fil.  w,  mu. 

pu. 

Mornay,  All  fish  cooked  and  cov.  Mornay  sa.  w.  fumet, 
according  to  fish,  sprinkled  w.  grated  cheese  and 
glazed. 

Moules  (Mussels).  All  fish  gar.  w.  mussels  w.  beard 
and   tongue   taken   out.   Normande   sa. 

Mourier,  Stuf.  w.  salpicon  mu.  and  truf.,  cov.  ere.  sa.  w. 
truf.  essence  and  fumet  w.  madeira. 

Mousse  and  Mousseline,  Dec.  mould  or  sprinkled,  filled 
w.  fi-fo.  mousseline  gar.  and  sa.  according  mousse. 
See  "Timbale"  and  "Mousseline." 

Murat,  Fish  cut  in  jul.  dipped  in  milk  and  flour,  saute 
quickly  mixed  w.  pot.  and  cooked  artichoke  bottoms 
cut  in  dice,  gar.  w.  slice  of  torn,  around,  cov.  Maitre- 
d'Hotel    butter. 

Nage.  a  la;  Cooked  in  court-bouillon  w.  sliced  vege.  ac- 
cording to  fish,  cold  or  hot. 

—  140  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 

Nantaise,  Gar.  shrimps  and  bottom  of  artichokes  in  dice, 

cov,  Nantaise  sa, 
Nantua,   All   fish   cov.    or     gar.    w.   crawfish      tails   and 

Nantua  sa. 
Naragansette,  Cooked  and  cov.  w,  Villeroy  sa.  breaded 

English      style     and      fried,   ere.    sa.    w.   little    necks 

clams  around. 
Navarin,  Stuf.  fi-fo.  and  Duxelles,  po.  sliced  lobster  on 

top  or  around,  cov.  Montebello  sa. 
Nelson,   In   border,   Duchesse   pot.    cov.   Morney   sa.   w. 

onion  pu.,  glazed. 
Nemours,   Stuf.   w.   fi-fo.  mousseline,   gar.   w.  mu.   quen. 

milt,  thi.  Normande  sa.,  shrimp  sa.  w.  shrimps  around 

and  slices  of  truf.  on  top. 
Neptune,  Lobster  sa.  or  Newburg  sa.,  etc.,  add  different 

shellfish. 
Nesle,   Stuf.   w.   shrimps    salpicon,   cov.   fi-fo.,    dec,   gar. 

mu.  and  crawfish  tails,  fish  sa.  around. 
Newburg,  All  fish  cooked  or   thi.   w.   NewMrg   sa.   and 

essence  according  to  article. 
Nicoise,  Broiled,  gar.  of  pounded  tom.  saute  w.   olives, 

anchovies  and  anchovy  butter  on  top. 


Sole  Normandv  stvle 


Normande,  Gar.  w.  mussels,  Oysters,  mu.,  shrimps  cov. 
w.  Normande  sa.,  gar.  on  top,  fried  gudgeons,  fried 
bread  lozenges,  trussed  craw^fish,  head  of  mu.  in  cen- 
ter and  slice  of  truf.  around. 

Norvegienne  (Norwegian  style).  Cooked  in  dish  w.  thi, 
ere.,  sprinkled  bread  crumbs,  butter  and  baked. 

—  141  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

CEufs    (E-ggs),   shad    roe,   etc.    broiled,    sautes,      stuffed, 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Olympia,  In  crustade  long  or  oval  fil.  w.  salpicon,  coy. 

Mornay  sa.  w.  onions,  pu.  and  fumet,  glazed. 
Ondines,   Mousseline   fi-fo.   in   mould,   dec.   or   sprinkled 

coral,  etc.,  gar.  w.  crawfish  tails  and  truf..  Nantua  sa. 

around.     S'ee  "Mousseline." 
Opera,  Cov.  w.  fish  sa.,  glazed,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips  and  truf. 
Oriental,    Same   as   "Juive,"   w.      saffron   and     chopped 

almonds. 
Orleans,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  same  gar.  "Chambord",  shrimp 

sa.  and  Normande  sa.  around. 
Orly,  Fish  in  fillet  pickled  in  oil  and  lemon  juice,  dip- 
ped in  batter  and  fried,  Orly  sa.  or  cold  sa. 
Ostendaise,     Cov.     Normande   sa.     gar.  w.   oysters   and 

shrimp  croquettes,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Otero,   Belle;    Baked  pot.  emptied,   fil.  w.   shrimps,   sal- 
picon, cooked  fish,  cov.  Mornay  sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed. 
Pain,  Fish  loaf  in  fi-fo.  in  dec.  mould    (See   "Timbals" 

and  '"Mousseline.")     Divers  gar.  and  sa.  according  to 

fish. 
Palace,    Cooked    in    dish    w.    shallots    and    minced  mu. 

pounded  tom.,  wh.  wi.  cov.   Mornay  sa.,   glazed. 
Papillote,  Fish  saute  or  broiled  cov.  w.  thi.  Duxelles  sa., 

put  in  paper  casing,   baked,   slices  of  ham  or  lemon 

according  to   desire. 
Parmentier,  Fish  fillet  cooked  w.  chopped  shallots  and 

wh.  wi.  gar.  w.  crushed  boiled  pot.  cov.  w,  thin  fish 

sa.  and  coction  and  fi-her.,  glazed. 
Parame,  Broiled.     See  "Papillote,"  for  Sardine. 
Parisienne,   Cooked  w.   wh.   wine,  gar.   w.   oysters,   mu., 

truf.,   cov.  Normande   sa.   w.  crawfish  butter,   gar.   w. 

dec.  quen.,  Parisienne  pot.  around,  sliced  truf. 
Pates  (Fish  Pies),  Salmon  pie,  eeis,  lobster.     See  head- 
ing "Farces,  Forcemeat."     Generally  cold. 
Paul  Bert,  Cov.  Parisienne  sa.  w.  fumet  gar.  shrimps  and 

pot,  Parisienne. 
Paupiette  ou  Poupiette,  Sliced  fish  rolled,  w.  fi-fo.,  meat, 

braised  w.  fumet  or  wine,  gar.    and  sa.  according  to 

fish. 
Pecheur,  Matelote  style,  in  tureen,  baked. 

—  142  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 


Pilaf,     Turkish  dish,  w.  rice  and  onions,     moisten  fish 

stock,  sea.  divers  style. 
Pisane,    On   chopped    spinach   w.    garlic   and   anchovies, 

w.  butter,  cov.  Mornay  sa.  w.  torn,  and  fumet,  glazed. 
Plat  (Dish),  Cooked  in  dish  w.  wine,  stock,  fumet,  sea., 

etc..   baked. 
Plombiere,  Breaded  w.  Indian  meal  and  fried  cold  sa. 
Poche    (Poached),   In    wine,    fumet,    court-bouillon,    gar. 

and  sa.  according  to  fish. 
Pochouse    (See   "Matelote").   Use   any     kind     of     fish, 

cooked   w.   red  wine,   burn   w.   brandy. 
Pojarski,  Chopped  fish  thi.  w.  fresh  ere.,  bread  crumbs 

and  fresh  butter,  half  and  half,  sea.  made  chop  shape, 

dipped    in    melted    butter    and    fresh    bread    crumbs, 

broiled  gar.   and  sa.  according  to  fish. 
Polignac,   Cooked   in   dish   w.    shallots   and   minced   mu. 

cov.  fish  sa.  w.  paprika. 
Polonaise    (Polish),    Same   as   "Israeliet,"     or     fried  w. 

Polonaise  butter. 
Pompadour,  Cov.  lobster  sa.  w.  truf.  in  dice,  gar.  small 

lobster    croquettes. 
Pondichery,  In  rice  border,  w.  curry,  cov.  Pondichery  sa. 
Pontigny,   Cov.  Matelote   sa.   gar.   w.  fi.   quen.   w.   onion 

pu.,   shrimps,  mu.   and   crawfish  tails. 
Portiere,  Fried  in  butter  when  cooked,  cov.  w.  French 

mustard  and  butter  Meuniere,  fi-herbs. 
Porcupine,  Incrusted  or  larded  w.  salt  pork,  broiled  or 

fried. 
Porte-Bonheur,  Fillet  of  fish  horseshoe  shape,   stuf.   w. 

shrimps    salpicon,   horseshoe    nails   made   w.   truf.    on 

top,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  fish. 
Portugaise,    Cooked   in   dish,     onions     and     sliced   mu., 

pounded  torn.,  sea.,  baked. 
Poulette,    Cov.   Poulette   sa.   w.   sliced   mu.,   chives   and 

fi-her. 
Presidente,    Cov.    Normande    sa.    w.    truf.    pu.,    gar.    dec. 

quen.,  fried  mussels  Yilleroy,  crawfish  tails  and  whole 

truf. 
Princesse,  In  crustade   fil.   w.   asparagus  tips.   Supreme 

sa.   w.   essence  and  asp.   butter  sliced  truf. 

—  143  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Printaniere,  Cov.  cream  sa.  w.  green  butter  and  essence', 

gar.  w.  fancy  vege. 
Proven cale,  Cov.  Provengale  sa.  w.  fumet  and  anchovi<9S 

gar.   w.   torn,   saute   w.   garlic  or  fried  Meuniere,  gar. 

on   top  egg-plant  Jul.   and  fried  torn.,     cov.   Meuniere 

butter. 
Puysegur,     Same     preparation    as    "Pajorski,"    broiled, 

cream  sa.  w.  sliced  mushrooms,  around. 
Queneijes,  Quenelles  cf  fish.     See     under     heading     of 

"Farce,"  dec.  or  sprinkled,  acording  to  fish,  gar.  and 

sa.  facultative. 
■Quirinal,   Cov.  fi-fo.   ,dec.   Bordelaise  sa.   \v.   fumet,  gar. 

crawfish  quen.,  mu.  and  truf. 
Quo   Vadis^  Same   as   "Daumont,."  in   crustade   made   in 

shape  of  a  Roman   chariot,  gar.   w.   trussed   crawfish 

ahead  of  chariot. 
Rabelais,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  sprinkled  \v.  coral  and  fillet  ancho- 
vies on  top,  fish  sa.  w.  anchovy  butter. 
Rachel,  Stuf.  salp.  of  shrimps  cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  Normande 

sa.  w.  truf.,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips. 
Radziwiil,  Same  as  "Joinville,"  gar.  \v.   cucumbers  and 

olives. 
Regence,   Gar.   w.  quen.   mu.,   truf.,   milt,   crawfish   tails 

Genoise  or  Normande  sa. 
Reine,     In   medallion   shaped   cov.    fi-fo.,   dec.     sup.    sa. 

around,  gar.  w.  dec.  quen.  mu.,  truf. 
Reichenberg,  Gov.  Normande  sa.  gar.  small  oysters,  cov. 

Mornay  sa.,  glazed. 
Rejane,  Cov.  fish  sa.  w.  water-cress  butter,  gar.  w.  roses 

made  of  Duchesse  pot. 
Reveloise,   Cooked  in   dish   cov.   whi.   wi.   sa.,   sprinkled 

w.  coral,  chives  and  parsley,  when  cooked. 
Rhodesia,   On  large     sliced     lobster     American     style, 

paupiette  of  fish  poa.  on  top,  cov.  Americaine  sa. 
Riche,  Cov.  lobster  or  shrimps  sa.  w.  truf.  in  dice. 
Richelieu,     Breaded     English     style,     fried     w.     Maitre 

d'Hotel  butter  w.  truf.  essence. 
Rigoise,  Sliced  pickled  in  oil  and  lemon  juice,  stuf.  w. 
fi-fo.  and   chopped  mu.   rolled     and     breaded,     fried, 

gourmet  sa. 

—  144  — 


FISH,    GARNITURE   AND    SAUCES 

Ricja,  Cov.  Norniande  sa.  w.  Rioja  wine  and  fumet,  gar. 

w.    slices   of   lobster. 
Rocheiaise,  Matelote   sa.   gav.   w.   oysters,   mil.,   mussels 

and  milt. 
Rollmops,  Generally  herring  pickled  and  rolled  .w.  aro- 
matics.  (i'rv     -^ 

Romaine,  Fried  Meuniere  gar.  w.  sliced  onions,  smother- 
ed, moistened  vv^h.  wi.  and  tom.  gar.  w.  small  truf. 
Rosalie,  Fried  in  oil,  gov.  w.  shallots,  onions,  mu.,  garlic, 

chopped  and  fried  in  oil,  lemon  juice  and  parsley. 
Rosemont,  Same  Portugaise,  add  w.  Mirepoix  in  Jul. 
Rosin e,   Cov.  fish  sa.  w.  torn.,  gar.  very  small  tom.  fil. 
"^  f-  w.  salmon  mousseline. 
Rothschild,  Normande  sa.  and  fumet  w.  champagne,  gar. 

dec.  quen.  m.u.,  whole  truf. 
Roti,  All  fish  roasted  or  baked,  gar.  and  sa.  according 

to   fish. 
Rouennaise,  Mariniere  sa.,  white  or  red  wine. 
Royale,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  w.  a  crown  made  of  truf.,  gar. 

w.  quen.,  mu.,  truf.,  crawfish  tails,  Parisienne  pot. 
Russe,  Gov.  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  caviar  and  capers,  chopped 
eggs,  fennel  and  parsley  or  cooked  in  dish  w.  braised 
onions,    carrots   on   top,   fumet,   baked. 
Saint-Avertin,  Fish  sa.  w.  french  mustard,  gar.  w.  small 

pot.    croquettes. 
St.  Cloud,  Larded  w.  truf.,  po.  Orly  sa.  around,  gar.  w. 

fried  mussels. 
St.  Germain,  Butter  and  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  Bearn- 

aise  sa.,  gar.  hazelnut  pot. 
St.    Henri,   Butter   and   bread  crumbs  broiled  on  hedge- 
hog   pu. 
St.   Honorat,  Butter  and  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  gar.  w. 

tom.  saute,  Bearnaise  sa.  w.  mint. 
St.  Jean,  Poa.  cov.   Bearnaise  and   chivry  sa.  w.  fumet 
"gar.  Parisienne  pot. 
St.  Laurent,  Dipped  in  butter  and  bread  crumbs,  broiled, 

on  broiled  mu.  or  pu.,  gar.  Parisienne  pot. 
St.  Leu,  Gar.  mu.,  shrimps,  oysters,  truf.,  cov.  Normande 

sa.,  glazed. 
St.  Malo,  Gar.  w.  mussels  and  shrimps  cov.  Normande 
sa.  w.  anchovy  butter. 

—  145  — 


GANG  EL'S      GU  LI  NARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

St.  Mande,  Gov.  Matelote  sa.  Mariniere  style, 

Ste.  Menehould,  Butter  and  bread  crumbs,  broiled  ha- 
che  sa.  w.  fumet,  gar.   fried  mussels  Villeroy. 

St.  Nazaire,  Gov.  fish  sa.  gar.  around  w.  small  shell  of 
lobster  and  oysters,  puff  paste  fleurons, 

St.  Valery,  Gar.  w.  shrimps  and  mu.  cov.  fish  sa.  w. 
fumet,  glazed. 

Salade  Parisienne,  Sliced  fish  poa.,  pickled  French 
dressing  on  shredded  lettuce,  gar.  w.  bouquet  to  alter- 
nate around  fresh  torn.,  beets,  hard  eggs,  pot.,  all  cut 
in  dice,  sea.  w.  French  dressing,  fish  cov.  remoulade 
sa. 

Sauvigny,  Cooked  in  dish  w.  sliced  mu.,  wh.  wi.  and 
fi-her. 

Semillante,  Fish  poa.  cov.  Normande  sa..  gar.  w.  dec. 
quen.,  fried  oysters  Villeroy,  small  fried  eggs  in  oil. 

Senonaise,  Gov.  Matelote  sa.  w.  anchovy  butter,  glazed. 

Sicilienne,  Breaded  English  style,  fried  in  oil,  wh.  wi, 
torn,  cut  in  dice,  hard  egg,  anchovies,  capers. 

Solognote,  Fish  pickled  w.  vinegar  and  pounded  pignons 
sea.  and  condiment.  Enveloped  in  ordinary  paste  and 
oil  paper,  covered  w.  hot  ashes,  cooked  1''2  hrs.  be- 
fore served  clean  the  paste,  also  baked. 

Soto  Mayor,  Breaded  and  fried.  Cream  sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 
and  fumet. 

Soubise,  All  fish  sa.  w.  onions  pu.,  glazed. 

Souffles,  All  fi-fo.  mousse  in  crustade,  cassolettes, 
divers  styles  according  to  article.  See  "Timbale"  and 
"Mousseline  fi-fo." 

Sous  Cloche,  Poa.  or  fried  on  toast,  cov.  w.  thin  wh.  wi. 
sa.  and  Jul.  of  mu.  or  sa.  according  to  fish.  (Under 
Bell.) 

Stephanie,  Same  as  "Ghauchat,"  add  sliced  truf..  glazed. 

Suedoise  (Swedish  style),  Boiled  fi.  w.  parsley,  pot.  and 
ere.  sa.  w.  cucumbers  or  Suedoise  butter. 

Suffren,  Larded  w.  anchovies  fillet,  poa.  tom.  sa.  w. 
fumet  and  anchovy  butter. 

Sultane,  In  crustade  cov.  fish  sa.  w.  sweet  pepper  pu. 
or   butter,    dec.    fi.    quen.    crescent    on    top. 

Sur    Planche,   All   "Planked    fish"    borded   w.    Duchesse 

—  146  — 


FISH.    GARNITURE    AND    SAUCES 

pot.    cooked   in   oven,   served   divers      butter     or     sa. 

according    to    fish. 
Suzanne,  Gov.  fi-fo.  cov.  Polia:nac  sa.  gar.  w.  milt. 
Suzette,  In  border  fi-fo.  cov.  Joinville  gar  cut  in  jul.  a.nCt 

sa.,    glazed,    (see   Joinville.) 
Tartare,  All  fish  broiled  or  fried  w.  tartar  sa. 
Terrine   (In  tureen).  Fish  pie  cooked  in  tureen  or  fish 

forcemeat,  cold  w.  jelly. 
Theodora,  Gov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  w.  Normande,  Venitienne  and 

lobster  sauces. 
Timbale,  Mould   sprinkled   or  dec.     See   "Timbaie"   and 

Mousseline,"  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Tortue,  Turtle  style,  larded  w.  anchovies  fillet.     Tortue 

sa.  w.  fumet. 
Tosca,    Stuf.    w.    shrimp    salpicon,    cov.    shrimp    sa.    w. 

shrimp  coulis,   sliced  truf.   on   top. 
Toulonnaise,   Gov.   w.   fish  sa.   w.   fumet,   gar.   w.   quen.i^. 

mu.,  truf.,  olives. 
Toulousaine,   White  matelote   sa.,     gar.   w.     quen.   mu., 

small  onions  and  truf. 
Tourte,    Puff  pie    crust,   ancient   name   for   Vol-au-Vent. 

Gar.  w.  fish  or  shell-fish.,  gar.  and  sa.  according. 
Tourville,    Gar.   around   w.   mu.,    mussels,   truf.,    cov.   w. 

Mornay  sa.  and  fumet,  glazed. 
Traviata,  Cov.  fi-fo.,  dec,  gar.  w.  crawfish  tails  and  mu., 

fish  sa.  and  Nantua  sa.  around. 
Trouvillaise,  Gar.  mussels  and  shrimps,  cov.  Normande 

sa.  w.  shrimps  butter. 
Turban,   Mould   turban   shape,   sprinkled   or   dec,   filled 

w.   fi-fo.,  gar.   or  salpicon  in  center,  gar.  and  sa.   ac- 
cording to  fish. 
Upsala,     Cooked   w.    fennel,   cov.   fish     sa.   w.   chopped 

fennel. 
Urbain    Dubois,    Poached    cov.      Mousseline    fi-fo.,      cov. 

Normande  sa.,  w.  crawfish  butter,  gar.  w.  dec.  quen. 

and  whole  truf. 
Valaisienne,  Cooked  w.  Swiss  wine,  add  Genevoise  sa.  w. 

chopped  gerkins  and  (Papers. 
Valencia  or  Vaiencienne,  Spanish  style,  in  border  risotto 

Valencienne.     See  "Risotto,"  fil.  pounded  torn.,  fish  on 

top,  cov.  w.  Maximilien  sa.  w.  fumet. 

—  147  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Valentine,  In  crustade,  heart  shape,  til.  w,  lobster  sal- 

picon,  fish  cov.  fi-fo.,  dec.  w.  heart. 
Valentino,  In   long   crustade   til.   w.   risotto  Italian,   cov. 

Mornay  sa.  w.  fiimet,  glazed. 
Valois,  Gar.  w.  shrimps,  cov.  Valois  sa.  w.  fumet. 
Valvin,   Larded    w.    anchovy    fillet   poa.    or    in   papillote 

style,  bake,  cold  sa.  ,t 

Vanderbilt,    Cov.    fi-fo.,    dec.    Newburg   sa.,    w.    crawfish 

butter,   gar.  w.   crawfish   quen.,  mu.,   truf.   and  oyster 

crabs. 
Vatel,  Breaded,  fried,  fish  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  fumet, 

sprinkled  coral  and  parsley. 
Vaucluse,  Fried  Meuniere  style  in  olive  oil. 
Venitienne,  Fish  cov.  w.  chivry  sa.  essence. 
Verdi,  Gar.  w.  lobster,  truf.  and  macaroni  in  dice,  cov; 

Morney  sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed. 
Veron,  Butter  and  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  Veron  sa. 
Veronique,  Baked  w.   seedless  grapes,   sea. 
Vert,  au;   Generally  eels.     Belgian  style.     Mariniere  sa. 

moistened  w.  Louvain  beer  and     sea.     w.     shredded 

sorrel,   taragon,   salad-burnet,   chives,   parsley,   hot   or 

in   jelly. 
Vert-pre,  All  fish  served  w.  green  herb  sa.  or  green  gar. 

according  to  fish. 
Victoria,  Gar.  w.  lobster  and  truf.  in  dice,  cov.  lobster 

sa.,  glazed. 
Vierge,  All  fish  w.  white  matelote  sa.,  gar.  optional. 
Viileroy,  All  fish  cooked,  dipped  in  Villeroy  sa.,  breaded 

English  style  and  fried,  cold  sa.  or  Villeroy  sa. 
Vin    Blanc    (White  Wine),  All  fish  moistened  w.   wine, 

add  Veloute  or  fumet  essence,  thi.  same  Normande  sa. 

or  kneaded  butter,  according  to  style. 
Vin  Rouge  (Red  Wine),  Same  whi.  wi. 
Virginia,  In  border  of  sweet  pot.  fil.  shrimps  and  oysters, 

fish  cov.,  ere.   sa.  w.   fumet,  glazed. 
Vivandiere,   Stuf.   w.   Duxelles  cov.   tom.    sa.,   w.   fumet, 

chopped  taragon  and  chervil. 
Vol-au-Vent,  Large  patties,  shell  gar.  w.  divers  fish  and 

sa.  according  to  fish. 
Waleska,   Gar.  w.   slices  of  lobster,  cov.  Mornay  sa.   w. 

essence,  glazed,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 

—  148  — 


CLAMS,    BIVALVES,    SHELLFISH,    MOLLUSKS 


Water  Souchet   (Dutch  Waterzootje),  a  light  soup  and 

fish  prepared  w.  fish  and  vege.     See  "Souchet  sa." 
WaterzoeV,   Court-bouillon  w.   whi.  wi.  and  fresh  water 

fish.     See  S'oup  "Nord  Bouillabaisse." 
Whitney,   Gar.    w.    lobster,   mu.,     truf.,   cov.    ere.   sa.   w. 

funiet. 
Wilna,  Fish  cov.,redu.  fumet  w.  grated  horseradish,  gar. 

w.  choucroute  or  separately. 
Yvette,  Cov.  fi-her..  sa.  w.  fumet,  glazed,  gar.  w.  emptied 

small  peeled  tom.  fil.  w.  salmon  pu.  around. 
Zaza,  Deviled,  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  deviled  sa.  around 

gar.  deviled  small  pot.  croquettes. 

HARD  CLAMS  (Clovisses) 
SOFT  CLAMS   (Papiilonnes)  * 

BIVALVES,  SHELLFISH,   MOLLUSKS 
Bivalves,  Crustaces,  Mollusquas) 

The  preparations  for  above  articles  are  very  much 
the  same  as  oysters.  They  are  served  on  half-snells, 
cocktails,  fritters,  stuffing,  fried,  Mariniere  style, 
steamed,  baked  with  a  variety  of  garnitures,  not  forget- 
ting the  clam  chowder  and  the  clam  bake  party.  The 
soft  clams  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  but  are 
much  more  delicate;  be  careful  that  they  do  not  break 
in  the  cooking. 

NOTE— Either  hard  or  soft  clams  may  be  used,  ex- 
cept when  otherwise  noted,  or  mixed  with  all  kinds  of 
shellfish,  garniture   and   sauce  according  to   name. 

Abbreviations:      Same. as  those  heading  "Fish." 

Alexandra,  Soft,  w.  cooked  celery  in  dice,  thi.  Newburg 

sa.,  v/.  paprika,  in  chafing  dish. 
Ancienne    (Ancient   style).     Cooked  in   shell     vi.   sliced 

baccn  on  top,  paprika,  butter,  baked,  fi-her. 
Au  Four  (Baked),  Gar.  sa.  or  butter  according  to  clams 

—  149  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bateliere,  Cooked  in  shell  w.  sticks  of  larding  pork 
and  spice,  sprinkled  white  wine,  fi-her.  and  butter, 
baked. 

Beignets,  Same  as  "Fritters." 

Bouillon,  Clams  cooked  w.  little  water,  bimch  celery 
sea. 

Bordelaise,  Mariniere  sa.  w.  garlic,  fi-her. 

Bourguignonne,  On  half-shell  cov.  w.  Marchand  de  Vin 
butter,  baked. 

Creole,  Cooked  cut  in  dice,  mixed  w.  Creole,  stuf.  in 
shell,  baked. 

Cocktail,  Raw,  served  in  glass  w.  cocktail  sa.,  ice 
around. 

Demi-Coquille  (On  half-shell),  Laid  on  ice,  served  Mi- 
gnonette sa.  and  lemon. 

Fantaisie  (Fancy),  Chopped  raw  hard  clams  w.  lemon 
juice,  chopped  shallots  and  chives  on  half-shell,  cov. 
w.  Mignonette  sa.,  laid  on  ice. 

Farcis  (Stuffed). See  "Creole,"  or  divers  styles. 

Fritters,  Chopped  clams  sea.,  mixed  w.  flour,  milk,  eggs 
and  fi-herbs,  fried  in  butter. 

Grant,  Cooked  chopped  w.  green  peppers  in  dice,  fried 
in   butter,   thi.   Bechamel   on   toast. 

Jus,  Clam  bouillon,  reduce. 

Parisienne,  On  half-shell  w.  escargot  butter,  baked. 

Provencale,  Cooked  w.  shell,  w.  chopped  shallots,  garlic, 
pounded  tom.,  sea.,  chopped  parsley. 

Pompadour,  Poached,  half-shell,  cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  craw- 
fish butter,  glazed. 

Vapeur,  Wash,  cook  in  steam,  serve  w.  juice  separately, 
also  drawn   butter. 

Steam,  Same  as  "Vapeui-,"  served  w.  melted  butter. 

CLAM-BAKE 
(Pique-Nique  aux  Clovisses) 

A  clam-bake  is  one  of  the  most  primitive  styles  of 
cooking  in  America  and  is  generally  given  at  the  sea- 
side in  the  month  of  July.  Dig  a  hole  in  the  ground, 
cover  the  bottom  wth  flat  stones,  in  the  form  of  a  well 

—  150  — 


CRABS 

two  or  three  feet  long;  make  a  large  fire,  enough  to 
make  the  stones  red.  When  there  is  nothing  left  but 
the  ashes  make  a  bed  of  sea-weeds.  Put  in  small  pack- 
ages (according  to  the  number  of  guests)  the  clams, 
a  small  lobster,  one-half  chicken,  fresh  corn,  a  crab, 
some  sweet  potatoes  and  a  sea  bass,  tie  the  cloth  tight. 
Put  all  of  the  packages  in  hole  and  cover  with  sea  weed 
Cover  again  with  a  piece  of  strong  canvas,  and  recovei- 
with  sand.  The  heat  of  the  stones  and  the  steam 
cook  it  thoroughly.  After  a  couple  of  hours  take  off 
the  sand  very  carefully  and  serve.  One  does  not  need 
any  culinary  capacity  for  this  primitive  style  of  cook- 
ing. The  clam-bake  is  served  at  all  sea-shore  dinners, 
in  small  baskets,  but  these  are  only  cooked  in  steam. 

The    Barbecue 

The  barbecue  is  a  picnic  of  meat  or  large  game, 
roasted  or  broiled  on  red  hot  coals.  Mexican  style: 
meat  highly  seasoned  with  aromatic  herbs,  put  in  small 
bags,  and  cooked  in  the  ground. 

CRABS 

Crabs  differ  in  their  size  and  color,  excepting  the  sea 
crabs  or  the  countries  where  they  are  caught.  Deep 
water  crabs  only  should  be  eaten,  but  unfortunately  it 
is  not  written  on  the  shells. 

The  meat  of  the  crab  should  be  white.  It  has  a 
delicate  taste,  but  is  indigestable.  Hard  crab  meat 
is  sold  already  prepared.  Take  the  meat  out  of  the 
shell  and  be  careful  not  to  break  the  pieces.  Have  the 
sauce  ready  and  mix  it  in  gently.  It  is  very  necessary 
to  take  out  all  of  the  small  bones  of  the  crab. 

SOFT  CRABS  (Crabes  Mous) 

Soft  crabs  are  a  transformation  of  hard  crabs  which 
change  their  shells  two  or  three  times  a  year.  It  is 
remarkable  that     during  the     mont]3s  from     March   to 

—  151  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

October  the  soft  crabs  are  always  accompanied  by  the 
hard  crabs  and  at  the  slighest  noise  they  cover  the 
soft  crabs  with  tlieir  bodies.  The  lungs  and  tails  of 
the  soft  crabs  should  be  taken  out  and  washed. 

HARD  CRABS  (Crabes  Durs) 

Abbreviations:    Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Bordelaise,   Meat  mixed  w.   Bordelaise   sa.   or  Mirepoix 

Eordelaise. 
Brochette,  Claws  alternate  w,  bacon.  Broiled  divers  sa., 

highly  sea. 
Bouiilis  (Boiled),  Cooked  in  salt  water  w.  aromatics,  10 

to  15  min.,  cold  sa. 
Canape,  Meat  preparation,  hot  or  cold,  mixed  w.  divers 

sa.  according  to  the  name. 
Casserolette,  Meat  served  in  casserolette,  silver,  crust- 

ade,   porcelaine,    etc.,   gar.   and   sa.    according   to   the 

crab. 
Cocktail,  Crab  meat  in  a  glass  or  emptied  green  pepper, 

w.  cocktail  sa. 
Court-Bouillon,    Boiled    in    court-bouillon.       See    "Fish 

Court-Bouillon." 
Creole,  Meat  w.  Creole  sa.  in  rice  border. 
Croquette,  Meat  thi.  w.  Bechamel  sa.,  breaded  English 

style,  fried  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Croustade,  "Crustade"  meat,  thi.  acocrding  gar.  and  sa. 
Dewey,  Meat  thi.  Newburg  sa.,  mixed  w.  cooked  bone- 
less frog's  legs,  oyster  crabs,  fresh  mu.,  green  and 
,  sweet  peppers,  served  in  chafing  dish,  or  baked  in 
;■  shell, 
blable,  "Deviled  crab"  meat  thi.  w.  ere.  sa.,  sea.  in  crab 

shell,  deviled,  baked. 
Entre-Nous,     Meat  thi.     Newburg   sa.     w.   sliced     mu., 

oyster   crabs,    soft    clams    cooked   on    top,    served    in 

chaffing  dish. 
Gratin,  Meat  thi.  ere.  sa.,  in  border  Duchesse  pot,  baked? 
Farcis,  "Stuffed  crab's"  meat  thi.  w.  sa.,  baked. 

sweet  peppers. 

—  152  — 


CRABS.     CRAWFISH 


Feuiile,  Meat  served  on  lettuce  leaves,  gar.  and  sa.  ac- 
cording to  the  name,  dec.  on  top. 

Lorenzo,  On  canape.     S'ee  "Canape." 

Louis,  Cold,  on  shredded  lettuce,  cov.  w.  Thousand  Is- 
land dressing,  boiled  sliced  eggs  around. 

Louisianaise,   Meat   thi.    w.    ere.    sa.,   okra,   green    corn. 

New  Orleans,  Meat  w.  green  and  sweet  peppers,  okra, 
pounded  torn.,  chili  sa.,  highly  sea. 

Ravigote,  Meat  mixed  w.  Tartare  or  Ravigote  sa.,  in 
shell,  decorated  on  top,  highly  sea. 

Royaie,  Meat  thi.  Newhurg  sa.  w.  oyster  crahs,  cooked 
celery  in  dice  w.  truf. 

Salade,  Meat  in  salad  w.  mayo,  sa,  or  French  dressing, 
dec.  according  to  article. 

Sauce,  All  sauces  according  to  style. 

Tartare,  Meat  dressed  in  lettuce  leaves,  w.  Tartare  sa. 

SOFT  SHELL  CRABS  (Crabes  Mous) 

Creole,  Fried  in  butter,  add  Creole  sa.,  rice  separately. 
Frit    (Fried),  Dipped  in  milk  and   flour  and  fried,     or 

breaded  English  style,  cold  sa.  and  lemon. 
Grilles,  Broiled  on  toast,  butter,  lemon  or  divers  sa. 
Mariniere,   Saute  in  butter,  w.  Mariniere  sa. 
Meuniere,   Dipped   in   milk   and   flour,   saute   w,   butter, 

cov.  w.  Meuniere  butter. 
Nage,   See   "Fish   Court-Bouillon,"   w.   wi.   and  aromatic 

condiments,  served  cold  or  hot. 
Pickled,  Same  as  a  la  Nage,  add  vinegar,  highly  sea. 
Sous  Cloche  (Under  Bell),  Cooked  w.  butter  on  buttered 

toast,   fi-her.  and   cov.   w.   bell,   divers   sa. 

CRAWFISH  (Ecrevisses) 

Crawfish  is  considered  a  very  choice  aliment.  The 
Crustaces,  Bisque  Soup,  a  la  Bordelaise,  en  Buisson  and 
a  la  Nantua,  all  have  a  universal  reputation.  To  ac- 
commodate guests  who  are  not  experts  in  removing  the 
shells,  they  can  be  served  without. 

NOTE — Before  cooking,  remove  the  intestinal  bowels. 

—  153  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Americaine,  See  "Lobster  Americaine."  Same  sa. 
Bordelaise,    Saute   w.    Mirepoix,   Bordelaise,     burned   w. 

brandy  and   wh.   wi.,  Veloute  sa.,  reduce  sea.,   butter 

and  fi-her. 
Buisson,  A  cluster  of  crawfish,  served  cold,  cooked  w. 

court  bouillon  aromatics,  highly   sea. 
Coquiile,  Crawfish  tails  served  in  silver  or  scallop  shells, 

thi.  divers  sa.  according  to  the  name,  Nantua,  Mornay, 

etc.,  cold  in  aspic  w.  jelly. 
Liegeoise,    Cooked    in    court-bouillcn,    redu.,    butter    and 

fi-her. 
Magenta,    Mirepoix    Bordelaise,    cut    thin,    fried    in    oil 

same  as  Bordelaise,  add  pounded  torn.,  chopped  green 

basil. 
Mariniere,   Tails    saute   in   butter,   Mariniere   sa. 
Mousse   or   Souffles    (S'ee  "Farces   Crustaces"),  In   dec. 

mould  or  sprinkled,  crawfish  fo.  meat,  Nantua  sa. 
Nage,  Cooked  in  court-bouillon,  highly  sea.,  hot  or  cold. 

See  "Crab." 
Nantua,  Tails  without  shell  in  Nantua  sa. 
CEuf,  Egg,  crawfish  fo.  meat,  in  pigeon's  egg  shape  or 

salpicon,  divers  sa.,  served  in  nests. 
Voltaire,  Tails  without  shell  in  American  sa. 

FROGS'  LEGS   (Grenouilies) 

Frogs  are  considered  a  great  delicacy.  The  English 
call  the  French  "Jack  Frog"  and  we  return  the  compli- 
ment by  calling  them  "John  Bull." 

Notwithstanding  this  criticism  we  are  the  masters  in 
preparing  them.  The  frog,  to  be  good,  should  be  eaten 
very  fresh,  and  this  is  a  simple  method.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  if  the  nerves  contract,  they  are  fresh;  if  not, 
they  should  not  be  eaten.  All  preparations  for  cook- 
ing frogs  are  excellent,  such  as:  fried,  saute,  a  la 
Poulette,  etc.  Frogs,  nowadays,  are  served  boneless 
to  facilitate  the  service. 

—  154  — 


FROGS'     LEGS 


Abbreviations:     Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Bordelaise,  With  or  without  bones,  saute  w.  butter  on 

Bordelaise  sa. 

Bouillies   (Boiled),   Cooked  w.   court-bouillon,  ready  for 

divers  styles. 
Canadienne,  Boneless,  w.  Newburg  sa.,  in  crustade,  cov. 

w.   fish   fo.   uiousseline,   baked   five  minutes. 
Croustades,  All  kinds  of  frog  meat,  served  in  crustade, 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  the  name. 
D'Antin,  Saute  w.  butter  and  chopped  mu.,  thi.  Colbert 

sa.,  fi-her. 
Duquesne,   In   mould,     sprinkled   av.    coral,      surrounded 

fish  fo.,  center  filled  w.  boneless  frogs,  thi.  Newburg 

sa.,  same  sauce  around. 
Figaro,    Saute    in    butter,    w.    onions,    green    and    sweet 

peppers,   cut  in  dice,  pounded  tom.,   sea.,  fi-her. 
Fines-Herbes,  Sea.  lightly  in  flour,  saute  w.  butter  and 

fi-her.;   chopped  shallots  facultative. 
Frites   (Fried),  Sea.,  milk  and  flour  or  breaded  English 

style;   also  fried  in  butter,  served  divers  cold  sa. 
Gratin,     Boneless,     in     border,     in  shell,     baked,     gar. 

and  sa.  according  to  the  style. 
Griilees,  Lightly  marinated  w.  oil  and  lemon  or  butter. 

"Broiled,"  cold  sa.  or  hot. 
Lilloise,  Saute  w.  scraped  pork,  pounded  tom.,  anchovy 

essence,  taragon,   butter. 
Mariniere,  Saute  w.  butter,  Mariniere  sa. 
Meuniere,  Sea.,  milk  and  flour,  saute  w.  butter,  cov.  w. 

Meuniere   butter. 
Mousseline,   In   mould,   dec.   or   sprinkled,   fo-meat.     See 

"Timbale"   and   "Mousse,"   gar.    and   sa.    according   to 
the  name. 
Omelette,  Cooked,  boneless,  saute  w.  butter  and  mixed 

w.  eggs. 
Nymphe,  Legs  poached  in  w.  h.  wi.,  when  cold  cov.  w. 

chaud-froid   sa.,   add   coulis   of   crawfish   and   paprika, 

dec.     w.  taragon   and   chervil  leaves,     in   champagne 

j^iiy. 

Paysanne  (Peasant  style),  Saute  and  butter,  thi.  w.  ere. 
sa.  and  chives. 

—  155  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Poulette,  Saute  w.  butter  ,add  poulette  sa.,  chives. 

Princess,  Boneless,  in  cassolette  or  cotelette  shape, 
gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  ci^e.  sa.  around. 

Provencaie,  Saute  w.  butter  and  shallots,  pounded  torn,, 
garlic,  fi-her. 

Renaissance,  Boneless,  in  crust  or  fancy  basket,  thi. 
Newburg  sa.,  sliced  truf. 

Sous  Cloche  (Under  Bell),  Boneless,  in  Mariniere  sa.  or 
another,  on  toast. 

Timbale,  Boneless,  dec.  mould  or  paste,  gar.  and  sa.  ac- 
cording to  the  name. 

LOBSTERS  and  SPINY  LOBSTERS 
(Homard  et  Langouste) 

In  culinary  art  the  lobster  is  considered  one  of  the 
best  of  the  deep-sea  fishes.  Thei-e  are  a  great  many 
different  varieties,  and  also  different  styles  of  prepa- 
ration,  which   makes   them   an   aliment  of   first   choice. 


Baked    Spiny   Lobster 

Lobsters  should  be  brought  into  the  kitchen  alive. 
They  are  of  a  dark  green  color  and  become  red  in  the 
cooking.  Never  cook  a  dead  lobster,  nor  eat  any  canned 
ones,  as  they  are  generally  indigestable  and  sometimes 
poisonous.  The  spiny  lobster  is  prepared  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  lobster,  only  the  meat  is  harder. 

REMARKS — For  lobster  meat  for  divers  uses,  see 
under  heading  of  Salpicon. 

—  156  — 


LOBSTERS  AND  SPINY  LOBSTERS 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Arnienonville,  Tails  cooked  and  sliced,  thi.  w.  Newburg 

''  sa.,  crawfish  butter  and  fresh  jiil.  of  mu.,  truf.,  chaf- 
ing dish. 

Americain,  Sliced  raw,  saute  in  oil  and  butter,  sea., 
moistened  w.  wh.  wi.  and  burned  brandy,  chopped 
shallots  and  torn.,  glace  meat,  fish  fumet,  cayenne 
pepper,  chopped  parsley,  cov.  and  cook  20  min.,  take 
out  the  lobster,  reduce  the  sa.  w.  chopped  coral,  but- 
ter, taste  and  cov.  the  lobster.  (Creation  of  Peter's 
Cafe  Americain,  Paris.)    Served  in   silver  timbale. 

Anglaise,  Tails  sliced,  ere.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  bottom 
aitichokes. 

Archiduc,  Tails  sliced,  burned  w.  brandy,  moistened  w. 

madeira  or  port  wi.,  thi.  crc.,  butter. 

Aspic,  In  dec.  mould,  sliced,  cov.  chaud-froid  sa.  in  jelly. 

Beileclair,  Tails  sliced,  thi.  Newburg  w.  Paprika  and 
sv/eet  peppers,   fil.   in   lobster   shell,   glazed. 

Bonnefoy,  Sliced  raw,  same  as  "Americaine,"  add  Mire- 
poix  composition,  sliced  in  triangle  shape  w,  sliced 
fresh  mushrooms.  P.lrBt  bo^oo)    ,t/f( 

Bordelaise,   Sliced  raw  same  as  "CraAvfish  Bordelaise.-- 

Bouilli  (Boiled),  Cooked  in  court-bouillon  w.  aromatics, 
15  to  30  min.  according  to  size.  It  is  best  to  let 
cool  in  courtbouillon;  cold,  split  in  two,  take  out 
intestinal   bowels.   Cold   sa. 

Britannia,  Tails  sliced,  thi.  Newburg  sa.,  add  torn.  sa. 
w.  sliced  mu.  and  bottom  artichokes. 

Broche  (Roasted  on  the  spit),  Split  raw  or  baked  in 
oven,  served  chili  sa.,  melted  butter,  deviled  sa. 

Brochette,  Tails  sliced  on  skewer,  put  between  bacon 
and  mu.  butter,  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  serve  butter, 
deviled  sa.  or  cold  sa. 

Cardinal,  Boiled,  split,  take  out  of  the  shell,  fill  the 
shell  w.  mu.  salpicon  at  bottom,  sliced  bottom  on 
top,   thi.    w.    Nantua   sa.,    baked   or   glazed. 

Cettoise,  In  border  rice  curry,  gar.  w.  tails  sliced  Bor- 
delaise style.     See  "Crawfish  Bordelaise." 

—  157  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Clarence,  Boiled,  split  in  half,  take  out  of  shell  and  fili 

shell  w.  rice  curry  at  bottom,  sliced  'lobster,  cov.  ere 

sa.  w.  curry,  glazed,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Columbus,     Tails    sliced    on     Americaine    sa.,    strained 

iiiixed  w.  white  and  green  fish  quen.  and  truf.  in  Jul 
Cocktail,  Sliced  in  glass  or  emptied  green  pepper,  cock 

tail  sa.,  ice  around,  or  separated  cocktail  sa. 
Coquille   (Shell),  Tails  sliced,   cov.  chaud-froid  sa.,  dec 

in  shell  w.  jelly  or     hot  shell,  fil.   lobster     salpicon 

baked  in  oven,  gar.  and  sa.  acocrding  to  the  name. 
Cotelettes,    Salpicon    or    lobster    fo-meat,    chop    shaped 

poached,  breaded  or  fried,  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Court-Bouillon,   See  "Bouilli."   Served  cold  or  hot. 
Creole,  Tails  sliced  w.  Creole  sa.  in  rice  border. 
Croquette,  Salpicon  of  lobster,  thi.  ere.  sa.,  breaded  Eng 

lish  style,  fried,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  the  name. 
Duglere,    Split   in    two.     Bordelaise    style.     See    "Craw 

fish  Bordelaise,"  w.   chives  and  chervil. 
Farcis  (Stuffed),  Split  in  half-shell,  stuf.  w.  lobster  sal 

picon,  divers  style  according  to  the  name.     Baked. 
Fresme,   Tails   sliced,   saute,   thi.   Newburg  sa.   w.   truf. 

mu.  quen. 
Gourmets,  Split,  cooked  tails  sliced,  thi.  Gourmet  sa.  ir 

half-shell,  glazed. 
Grille    (Broiled),    Split   raw,   sea.    butter   or   oil,    cookec 

slowly    on    broiler,    serve    melted    butter    and    lemor 

or  sauce. 
Hongroise   (Hungarian),  Tails,  sliced,  saute  w.  paprika 

moistened  w.  thi.  ere.  or  Hongroise  sa. 
Indienne,  Tails  sliced  saute  w.  curry  sa.  in  rice  border 
Laperouse,  Tails   sliced.     Medallion   shape,     cold,     cov 

Vincent   sa.,     add  jelly,     sprinkled     w.   coral,   bordei 

yellow  butter,  eyes  in  center  made  of  truf.,  chopped 
jelly  around. 
Liqueur  d'Abricot,     Tails  sliced,     thi.  Newburg  sa.     w 

little  curry  and  liqueur  d'Abricot,  in  chafing  dish. 
Louis,    Sliced   on   shredded    lettuce,      cov.    w.   Thousanc 

Island  dressing. 
Maison   d'Or,  Tails   sliced,  "Bordelaise."   See  "Crawfish 

Bordelaise,"    gar.   around   small   caviar   canape,   hear 

shaped. 

—  158  — 


LOBSTERS  AND  SPINY  LOBSTERS 

Maryland,  Tails  sliced,  saute,  moistened  w.  sherry  wi. 
and  thi.  ere.  w.   Maryland  butter. 

Mayonnaise,  Boiled,  cold,  split  in  half,  mayo.  sa.  or  in 
salad  w.  celery,  cov.  mayo,  sa.,  dec.  lettuce  around. 

Mephisto  or  Mi  nerve,  Whole  tails  cooked,  saute  w.  an- 
chovy butter,  cayenne  pepper  in  chafing  dish,  burned 
w.  fine  champagne  brandy  on  the  table. 

Miramore,  Tails  sliced,  saute,  w.  NeAvburg  sa.  w.  green 
and   sweet   peppers   in    chafing   dish. 

Mousse  or  Mousseiine,  In  mould,  dec.  or  sprinkled  or 
special  mould  ball,  dressed  on  individual  crown  shape 
made  in  noodle  paste,  lobster  sa.  around.  See  Farces, 
Timbales  and  Mousses. 

Neva,  Slice,  cov.  mayo,  sa.,  dec,  dressed  on  whole 
dorsal  shell,  gar.  w.  lettuce  and  jelly. 

Newburg,  Tails  sliced,  saute  w.  butter,  moistened  w. 
sherry  wi.  and  thi.  ere.,  thi.  w.  yelk  of  eggs  and  ere. 

Palestine,  Tails  sliced,  saute  in  oil,  thi.  curry  sa.  border 
of  rice   pilaf. 

Panier  (Basket).  Made  on  spaghetri  or  noodle  paste, 
mousseiine  lobster,  fo-meat,  egg-shaped,  divers  sa.  ac- 
cording to  the  name. 

Parislenne,  Sliced,  cov.  mayo,  sa.,  dec,  dressed  on 
whole  dorsal  shell,  open  in  center,  fil.  w,  Russian 
salad,  slice  on  top,  gar.  around  w.  artichoke  bottoms 
fil.   w.   Russian   salad,   lettuce  heart,   and   boiled  hard 

e  or  era 

Pilaf,  Turkish  style,  lobster  cooked,  cut  in  dice,  fried  av>; 

onions  and  rice,  divers  styles.  ^ 

Provencale,   Tails,   sliced,  saute,  add  Provengale   sa.   w. 

pounded  torn.,  garlic,  fi-herbs. 
Queues,  Whole  tails  or  sliced,  divers  styles,  gar.  and  sa. 

according  to  the  name. 
Rougemont,  Tails  sliced,  saute  w.  Burgundy  wi.,  w.  jul. 

oL  carrots,  celery,  onions,  leeks,  smothered,  thi.  tom. 

sa.,   rice  separately. 
Russe   (Russian  style),  Same  as  "Parisienne,"  gar.  half 

hard     white   egg,     fil.   w.   caviar,     mould     of     small 

Russian  salad  around. 
Saiade,   Same  as   "Mayonnaise,"  divers   styles.     . 

—  159  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sherry  Louis,  Split  in  half,  raw,  baked,  cooked,  take 
out  the  meat,  cut  in  slices,  sea.  put  in  the  shell, 
cov.  w.  sherry  butter.     Baked. 

Souffle,  In  cassolette.  Silver  casserole,  case.  See  Farce, 
Timbales  and  Mousselines. 

Stuffed,  Same  "Farcis."     Divers  stj'les. 

Tails,  See  "Queues,"  according  gar.  and  sa. 

Thermidor,  Split  in  half,  baked,  take  out  the  meat,  thi. 
w.  deviled  and  Bearnaise  sa.  mixed,  baked  or  glazed. 

Tourville,  Tails  sliced,  saute,  thi.  Mornay  sa.  w.  mussels, 
oysters  and  truf.,  glazed. 

Winterthcut,  Spiny,  split,  thi.   slice,  saute  w.  buUer  on 

.  Nartua  sa.,  fii.  the  shell,  grated  cheese  on  top,  quick- 
ly glazed. 


MUSSELS  (Moules) 

The  ordinary  mussel  which  is  found  on  the  sea-shore, 
resembles  the  oyster.  But  everybody  cannot  eat  mus- 
sels, as  sometimes  it  causes  nettle  rash  or  symptoms 
of  poisoning.  In  case  of  poisoning  give  the  person  a 
lemonade  with  a  few  drops  of  ether  in  it.  Mussels 
are  used  in  a  multitude  of  fish  garnitures.  The  Ma- 
riniere  Mussels  are  the  best.  Clean  thoroughly  and 
put  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  before  they  are  served 
and  do  not  use  raw  mussels  that  are  opened  when 
bought. 

NOTE — See  Cuisson    (Cooked)    of  mussels  for  divers 
uses. 

Abbreviations:     Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Bordelaise  or  Provencale,  Same  Mariniere  w.  garlic. 

Catalane,  In  half-shell.  Chopped  onions,  pimentos, 
pounded  tom.,  garlic,  smothered  w.  butter,  thi.  fisli 
sa.  and  mussel  juice,  cooked  mussels,  fil.  mussel 
shells,  baked. 

—  160  — 


OYSTERS   AND    OYSTER-CRABS' 


Cuisson,  Cooking  of  mussels  in  white  wi.,  white  pepper, 
a  small  quantity  of  salt,  little  butter,  juice  of  a  lemon, 
an  onion  cut  in  large  pieces,  a  branch  of  celery,  cover 

and  put  on  hot  fire.  Do  not  stir.  When  cooked  pour  the 
juice  off  and  put  mussels  back  in  sauce  pan,  if  they 
are  not  to  be  served  immediately.  Take  out  of  the 
shells,  according  to  article, 

Flamande  (Flemish  style).  Mussels  cooked  w.  sliced 
onions,  celery,  sea.,  little  water,  served  natural  w. 
mustard,  diluted  w.  vinegar, 

Frites   (Fried),  Same  style  as  the  one  used  for  Fish, 

Marinees,  Pickled  w,  oil,  vinegar,  sea,,  for  relishes. 

Mariniere,  When  cooked  keep  the  mussels  which  are 
attached  to  the  shell  only.  Fry,  chopped  shallots, 
moisten  lightly  w.  juice  of  mussels,  thi.  w.  kneaded 
butter,  sea.  or  fish  Veloute.  finished  w,  good  piece  of 
butter  and  chopped  parsley,  cov.  w,  mussels.  See 
"Cuisson." 

Nature!,  Mussels  cooked  and  served  plain,  steamed. 

Poulette,  Take  mussels  out  of  the  shell  w.  Poulette  sa., 
\v.  juice  of  mussels. 

Toulousaine,  Take  mussels  out  of  the  shell,  thi.  w.  fi- 
ber, sa.  w.  juice  of  mussels,  on  rice  border. 

Villeroy,  Mussels  cooked,  take  off  the  beard,  cut  the 
tongue  out,  cov.  w.  Villeroy  sa.,  breaded  English  style 
and   fried,   served   alone  or  for  garnishings. 

OYSTERS  AND  OYSTER-CRABS 
(Huitres  et  Crabes  d'Huitres) 

The  oyster  is  an  ancient  aliment  of  first  choice. 
They  are  good  only  in  the  months  which  have  "r,"  that 
is  to  say,  from  September  to  April.  The  fecundity  of 
the  oyster  is  remarkable.  The  oyster  is  hermaphrodite 
and  hatches  eggs  two  or  three  times  in  the  year,  which 
produce  about  two  millions.  The  oyster  should  be 
eaten  alive,  and  it  is  strange  to  say  that  it  is  one  of 
the  rare  animated  things  that  man  will  eat. 

The  American  is  master  in  the  art  of  eating  oysters, 

—  161  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

especially  cooked  ones.       Every  city  has  its  specialty. 
Let  us  eat  then  oysters  "in  every  style." 

Oyster-Crabs  are  served  generaly  fried  or  a  la  New- 
burg,  as  garniture  or  sauce  for  fishes. 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Americaine,     Po.    in   half   shell,      cov.     Americaine    sa., 

baked. 
Ancienne    (Ancient   style),   on  half-shell,   bacon  on   top, 

w.  paprika  butter,  baked. 
Anglaise   (On  horseback).  Oyster  on  skewer,  enveloped 

w.  bacon,  broiled  or  fried  English  style. 
Atteraux,  Po.  on  skevver,  cov.  Villeroy  sa.,  breaded  Eng- 
lish style  and  fried. 
Baked,  Divers  styles  in  shell  w.  ketchup,  chili  sa.,  etc, 
Baltimore,   Broiled  on   toast,  w.   cooked   celery,   cov.   w, 

ere. 
Beignets   (Fritters),  Dipped  in  batter  and  fried. 
Belleclaire,  Broiled  on  large  mushroonis  on  toast,  sliced 

Virginia  ham  on  top,  cov.   Maitre-d'Hotel  butter. 
Beilevue,   Po.   w.   celery   in   dice,   paprika,   thi.   ere.   and 

sherry  wine. 
Benoiton,  In  cocotte,  gar.  w.  large  mu.,  oysters  w.  chop- 
ped shallots,  bacon  and  fi-her.,  baked. 
Bercy,  In  shell,  baked  w.  Bercy  butter. 
Bouchees   (Patties),  Po.  cut  in  dice  or  whole,  gar.  and 

sa.   optional. 
Brochettes,     On  skewer,  alternate     w.  bacon     and  mu., 

broiled,  served  w.  butter,  on  toast,  or  sauce. 
Bourguignonne,  On  half-shell,  cov.  w.  Marchand  de  Vin 

butter  baked. 
Cocktail,   Oyster  cocktail  served  in  glass   or  half-shell, 

cocktail  sa.,  ice  around;   or  in  aligator  pear,  or  green 

pepper,  etc. 
Cociuille,  In  silver  shell  or  scallop  shell,  thi.  w.  ere.  sa. 

or  sa.  according  to  oysters. 
Croquette,  Po.  salpicon  of  oysters,  breaded,  fried  divers 

sa. 
Demi-Coquille,  Served  on  half-shell,  ice  around,  w.  lemon 

or  cocktail  sa. 

—  162  — 


OYSTERS    AND   OYSTER-CRABS' 


DiMy-Dally,  On  half-shell,  fil.  w.  chopped  sweet  pickles 

and  paprika  butter,  baked. 
Doo  de  Cheval  (On  horseback),  See  "Anglaise."  Broiled. 
Dumas,  On  half-shell,  cov.  w.  mixed  Bearnaise  sa.  and 

all  sa.  w.  chopped  mu.,  highly  sea.,  baked. 
Escal loped,   Baked   w.   bread   crumbs,   etc. 
Fancy   Roast,  Oysters,  cooked  w.  butter,  sea.  torn,  ket- 
chup   w.    green    peppers. 
Farcies,  Po.  split  stuf.  salpicon  or  pu.   breaded  English 

style  and  fried;   cold  see  Medallion. 
Favorite  shell   fil.   w.   ere.,   sa.    Oysters,   po.   on  top,   w. 

sliced  truf.,  cov.  ere.  sa.  w.  oyster  crabs,  glazed. 
Florentine,  Shell  fil.    w.    spinach    ere.,    oyster    cov.    w. 

Mornay  sa.,  baked  or  glazed. 
Frites   (Pried),  Dipped  in  milk  and  eggs,  sea,,  drained, 

roll  in  flour  or  crumbs,  fried  in  hot  butter,  turn  over 

after  brown,  or  breaded  English  style  and  fried.  Cold 

sa.  or  served  in  emptied  bread  loaf. 
Frisco,    Saute,    w.   green    and    sweet   peppers    on   toast, 

highly   sea. 
Garniture    (Garnished),    Cooked   w.   juice   when   cookea 

remove   beard   and   nerves,   keep   in   the  juice   before 

eating. 
Gratin,  Prepared  w.  divers  sa.  and  crumbs,  baked. 
Grille    (Broiled),   All   oysters   broiled,   dipped   in   butter 

and  rolled  crumbs,  broiled  on  toast,  deviled,     divers 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  oysters. 
Indienne,  Po.  w.  curry  sa.  on  rice  border. 
Hang  Town,  Fried  oysters  w.  sausage  cake  and  omelet, 

baked,  bacon  on  top. 
Hongroise,  Po.  on  paprika  sa.,  on  rice  border,  or  breaded 

and  fried. 
Louis,  Po.  cold  on  shredded  lettuce,   cov.  w.  Thousand 

Island   dressing,   boiled   sliced   eggs   around. 
Louise,  Po.  thi.  ere.  w.  paprika,  lobster  butter  and  sliced 

cepes  saute. 

Marechale  (Marshall),  Po.  dipped  in  batter,  fried,  divers 

sa. 
Medallion    (Medallion   shape),   Po.   cold,   fancy   oysters, 

cov.   w.   divers   cold  sa.   w.  jelly,   dec.  and   border   w, 

butter  of  divers  colors. 

—  163  — 


G  AN  C  EL' S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mode  du  Sud,  Oj'-sters,  po.  mixed  "vv.  tripe  Creole  style, 

.    oysters  predominant,  in  border  of  rice. 

jyiornay,  In  half-shell,  fil.  w.  Mornay  sa.,  oysters  on  top 
"'cov.'  w.  Mornay  sa.,  w.  oyster  juice,  cheese,  glazed, 
or  in  border  w.  Mornay  sa.,  glazed. 

Nantucket,  In  shell  w.  chopped  onions,  grated  horse- 
radish, sliced  bacon,  paprika,  butter,  baked  in  oven. 

Neptune,   All   mollusks   and   shell   fish  mixed   w.   divers 

'    sa.  and  gar.  according  to  name. 

Newburg,  Po.  thi.  Newburg  sa.,  chafing  dish. 

Ombre! le  d'Ostende,  Saute  in  large  mushroom  on  toast, 
center  fancy  handle  w.  bow  made  of  ribbon,  oysters 
around,   sliced   bacon  on  top,  divers  sa.   according  to 

,   name. 

h  ■■  ?• 

Omelette,  Po.  and  ere.  sa.  fil.  omelet,  gar.  w.  oysters, 
,  ere.  sa.  around. 

Parisienne,  In  half-shell,  cov.  w.  escargots  butter,  a 
few  fresh  bread  crumbs  on  top,  baked. 

Polonaise,  In  half-shell,  baked,  cov.  Polonaise  butter. 

Pfpver.cale,  In  half-shell,  cov.  w.  Provencale  sa.  or  same 

'.Parisienne. 

Philadelphia,  Broiled  on  toast,  cov.  w.  thi.  hot  ere. 

Pouiette,  Po.  w.  Poulette  sa.  w.  oysters  juice. 

Remick,  In  shell,  cov.  Remick  sa.,  crumbs,  baked. 

Roast,  Pan  roast  on  toast  w\  fi-her.  or  baked  plain 
divers  styles.  Ancien  Casino,  fancy  roast  w,  catsup, 
peppers   roast,   etc. 

Ravigote,  In  shell,   cov.  Ravigotte  butter,   baked. 

Russe,  Po.  w.  green  peppers  and  shrimps,  thi.  w.  hot 
R-usse  aa. 

Savory,  Po.  on  hollow  toast,  cov.  w.  cheese  souffle, 
baked. 

Scsllop,  Po.  thi.  ere.  sa,  on  earthen  dish,  crumbs,  baked. 

Souffies,  Oyster  fo-meat.  See  "Timbales  and  Mousse- 
line  sea.  foods".  Mix  all  kinds  of  moliusks,  divers 
gar.  and  sa. 

Soup  or  Stew',  See  "Soup",  po.  w.  juice,  add  thi.  or  thin 
ere.   sa.  or  milk. 

Steam,  Cooked  w.  steam  or  cov.  pan,  serve  juice  separ- 
ately   and    melted    butter. 

Viennoise,  Wiener  style.     Same  as  "Hongroise." 

—  164  — 


OYSTER-CRABS,  ABALONE,  SCALLOPS 

Vilieroy,  Po.  after  cold,  cov.  Yilleroy  sa.,  breaded  Eng- 
lish style,  fried. 

Virginia,  Oysters  raw  between  two  slices  of  Virginia 
I-am,  breaded  English  style,  fried. 

Wladimir,  In  shell,  fil.  w.  caviar,  cov.  Supreme  sa.,  fried, 
bread  crumbs  on  top  and  cheese,  baked. 

OYSTER-CRABS  (Crabes  d'Huitres 

Capucine,  Fried  in  butter  \v.  mu.  in  dice,  thi.  w.  redu. 
cro.,  between  two  large  mu.,  baked  15  min.  w.  butter 
serve  on  canape. 

Cassolette,  Fried  in  butter,  thi.  Newburg  sa.  in  casso- 
lette or  crustade,  divers  styles. 

Frits  (Fried),  Dipped  in  milk  cracker  dust  and  floui, 
fried,  deviled  w.  mustard,  Worcestershire  sa.  and 
cayenne  pepper,  serve  in  crustade  or  on  napkin 
lemon,  cold  sa. 

Mousse,  Oyster  crabs  fo-meat,  divers  styles.  See 
Timbales  and  Mousses, 

Newburg,  Fried  in  butter,  thi.  Newburg  sa.  w.  sherry  wi. 

Royale,  Oysters  crabs  saute  w.  fresh  mu.,  oysters,  truf., 
thi.  Newburg  sa. 

Virginienne,  Oyster  crabs  in  fancy  paste  basket,  thi. 
Newburg  sa.,  slice  of  turtle  fat  on  top. 

Wierchow,  Oyster  crabs  and  sweetbreads  saute  New- 
burg style,  in  oyster  shells,  glazed  quickly, 

ABALONE,  SCALLOPS,  Etc. 
(Abalone,  Petoncle,  etc.) 

The  moliusk  is  an  aliment  which  depends  entirely 
upon  its  culinary  preparation  and  is  not  edible  in  its 
natural  state.  They  are  prepared  in  the  same  style  as 
oysters.  Sea  fruits,  mixed  shellfish.  "Fruits  de  mer": 
Abalone    steak,    sliced    pounded,    or   broth. 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 
—  165  — 


GANCEL'S     CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Brestoise,  Po.  cut  in  dice,     thi.  Mariniere  sa.  in  shell, 

w.   bread   crumbs,   baked. 
Bretonne,  Po,  minced  w.  mu.,  thi.  Bretonne  sa.  in  shell, 

baked. 
B pochette,  Raw  in  skewer,  alternate  w.   bacon,  broiled 

on  toast. 
Broth,  Abalone  broth,  same  as  "Clam  Broth." 
Cassolette,  Same  name  under  head  of  Oysters. 
Creole,  Po.  mixed  w.   Creole  sa.  in  rice  border. 
Croustade,     Po.   gar.   and   sa.   according     to     style,     in 

crust, 
Frites,   Fried   raw,   dipped   in   milk   and   flour,   bi-eaded 

English  style,  fried,  cold  sa.,  abalone  sliced,  pounded 

before  breaded. 
Gratin,  Po.  Italienne  sa.  or  Mornay  sa.  in  shell,  baked. 
Grfcvllle,  Same  as  "Frites"  in  skewer,  fried.  Magenta  sa, 
Grillees,  "Broiled"  on  special  grill  or  skewers,  on  toast, 

Bearnaise  sa.,  deviled  sa.  or  cold  sa. 
Havraise,  Po.  Mariniere  sa.  w.  mu.,  in  shell,  baked. 
Indienne,  Po.  w.  curry  sa.  in  rice  border, 
Mariniere,  Po.  w.  Mariniere  sa.,  w.  juice. 
Maryland,  Po.  w.  thi.  Newburg  sa.,  w.  Maryland  butter, 
Meuniere^  Raw,   sea.,  passed  w.   flour,  saute,  Meuniere 

butter. 
Newburg,  Po.,  thi.  Newburg  sa.  w.  sherry  wi. 
Poulette,  Po.  w.  Poulette  sa.,  chives  and  parsley, 
Sea-Hedgehog,    Cooked    in    court    bouillon    10    min.,    or 

puree. 
Steak,  Abalone  steak,  broiled  or  fried  in  butter,  pounded 

before  cooked. 
Viiieroy,  Po.  cov.  Villeroy,  breaded  English  style,  fried 

divers  sa. 

SHRIMPS  (Crevettes) 

Shrimps  are  prepared  in  many  different  styles  for 
relishes,  and  are  easily  digested  when  eaten  fresh.  Put 
in  boiling  water,  drain.  Season  cooked  with  salt  and 
pepper,  then  cover  wth  a  fine  cloth.  To  facilitate  taking 
off  shells,  do  not  salt. 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

—  166  — 


SNAILS 

Americaine,  Tails,  thi.  w.  Americaine  sa. 

Aspic,  Large  tails  in  mould,  dec,  fil.  w.  jelly,  cold. 

Banquette,  Large  tails,  cov.  chaud-froid  mayo.,  in  crust- 
ade.   boat  shape,  w.  jelly. 

Basquette,  Tails  cov.  chaud-froid  mayo.,  in  crust  basket 
shape  w.  jelly. 

Bouillies,  "Boiled"  in  water  and  aromatics,  without  pep- 
per and  salt,  sea.     Read  heading  "Shrimps." 

Cocktails,  Tails.     Same  as  Lobster. 

Coquilles,  Tails  in  shells,  thi.  ere.  sa.,  divers  styles, 
baked    or    cold    in    jelly. 

Croquette,  Tails,  salpicon  of  shrimps.     See  "Croquette." 

Cu'Tie,  Tails,  thi.  w.  curry  sa.  in  rice  border. 

Frits,   "Fried"   in   oil,   sea.    salt   and   cayenne. 

Mousse,  Shrimp  forcemeat  in  dec-  mould.  See  "Force- 
meat." 

Newburg,   Tails,  thi.  Newburg  sa.,  chafing  dish. 

CEufs,  In  crust,  pigeon  egg  shape,  fil.  w.  salpicon,  served 
in  nests. 

Saiade,  Tails  cov.  w.  mayo.  sa.  or  French  dressing,  salad. 

SNAILS   (Escargots) 

Snails  have  a  universal  reputation,  but  have  no 
nutritious  value,  apart  from  their  culinary  preparation. 
They  are  indigestible  and  demand  a  great  many  stimul- 
ant condiments.  They  should  be  cooked  five  or  six 
hours,  then  the  digestion  is  easy.  Snails  cooked  in 
different  wines  designate  their  names. 

PREPARATION    OF    BURGUNDY   SNAILS 
(Preparation   d'Escargots  de    Bourgogne) 

Put  the  snails  in  a  tub  of  water  and  throw  salt  over 
them.  Let  stand  over  night,  then  wash  and  scald. 
Take  out  when  they  commence  to  boil,  then  take  out 
of  the  shells,  and  wash  again  in  boiling  water.  Cook 
in  the  following  manner.  A  garniture  composed  of 
carrots,  onions,  thyme,  bay  leaves  and  parsley,  moisten 
with  half  white  wi.  and  half  bouillon,  add  salt,  pepper 

—  167  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

and  spices.  Cook  on  slow  fire  for  five  or  six  hours,  let 
the  snails  get  cold  in  their  juice,  prepare  the  Escargot 
butter  (See  "Escargot  Butter").  When  the  shells  are 
well  dried  garnish  with  a  little  escargot  butter,  put  the 
snails  back  in  their  shells  and  close  the  shells  with  the 
butter.  Let  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  See  that  the  opening 
is  kept  straight  so  that  the  butter  will  not  fall  out. 
Snails  cooked  in  different  wines  designate  their  names. 

Beignets   (Fritters),  Take  snails  from  shell,  saute,  sea. 

w.   chopped   shallots,   garlic   and   fi-herbs,     dipped   in 

batter,  fried  in  oil. 
Bouillon,  Take  two  dozen  snails  from  shell,  w.  3  quarts 

water,  1  ounce  arable  gum,  head  of  lettuce,  1   piece 

of  calf's  head,  cooked  3  hours,  not  skimmed,  strained 

through  fine  cheese  cloth. 

Bordeiaise,  Small  snails,  cooked  in  shell  3  to  5  hours, 
w.  chopped  onions  and  shallots,  moistened  w.  red  wi., 
thi.  w.  kneaded  butter,  sea.   chopped   parsley. 

Bourguignonne.  Read  preparation.  Do  not  take  out  of 
the  shell,  drained,  filled  after  cold  w.  Maitre-d'Ho- 
tel  butter,  add  chopped  thyme,  taragon,  garlic,  chervil, 
majoram,  parsley  and  lemon  juice,  baked  old  style. 

Charentaise,  Small  snails,  same  as  "Bordeiaise,"  use 
white  wi.  in  place  of  red,  cooked  3  to  5  hours. 

ItaMenne,  Same  preparation  as  "Bourguignonnne,"  w. 
plenty  of  grated  parmesan  cheese,  mixed  w.  butter. 

Omelette,  Same  preparation  as  "Beignets,"  when  saute 
mixed  w.  eggs  for  omelet,  cooked  flat. 

Parisienne,  Read  "Preparation  of  Stiails."  Baked  same. 

Provencale,  Same  as  "Biegnets,"  saute  w.  tomatoes  and 
garlic. 

Sirop,  "Snail  Syrup"  is  excellent  for  children  who  have 
whooping  cough.  Wash  3  dozen  snails,  when  boiled, 
take  from  shell,  put  in  pot  w.  1  glass  Spanish  wine, 
stir  3  times,  add  1  quart  water  and  2  lbs.  sugar,  cook 
and    strain. 

Vigneron,   Same   as    "'Beignets,"   saute.   Eggs  if  desired. 

—  168  — 


TERRAPIN 


TERRAPIN   (Terrapene) 

The  terrapin  is  a  small  tortoise  very  highly  esteemed 
in  America,  probably  because  it  is  very  expensive.  The 
"Diamond  Back"  derives  its  name  from  its  shell,  which 
is  shaped  in  prisms.  It  is  the  best  in  the  market.  It 
is  the  preparation  of  the  terrapin  which  makes  it  so  ap- 
preciated and  in  great  demand.  Put  in  boiling  water. 
Take  off  the  skin  and  boil  till  about  %  cooked.  Disjoint, 
take  out  the  meat,  finish  cooking  with  chicken  stock. 
Keep  the  eggs;  add  the  liver  after  carefully  removing 
the  gall.     See  "Soup". 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Baitimore,  Disjoint,  saute  in  nut  brown  butter,  moisten- 
ed w.   port  wi.,   sea.,   thi.   w.   terrapin  liver   butter. 
Boneless,     When    cooked    take    out   the    bones.     Divers 

styles. 

Chesapeake,  Disjoint,  saute,  moistened  w.  sherry,  crea., 
thi.  w.  Maryland  butter  and  "noix  butter,"  sea. 

Crisfield,  Disjoint,  saute,  moistened  w.  sherry  and  double 
ere.  and  reduce. 

Maryland,  Disjoint,  moistened  w.  sherry,  ere.  and  Mary- 
land butter. 

Morgan,  Boneless,  same  preparation  as  "Sherry  Louis," 

Newburg,  Disjoint,  saute,  moistened  w.  sherry,  Newburg 
sa. 

Philadelphia,  Disjoint,  saute,  ere.,  thi.  Maryland  butter, 

sherry. 

Sherry  Louis,  Disjoint,  saute,  nut  brown  butter  w.  veal 
juice,  reduce.,  thi.  w.  sweet  butter,  old  sherry, 

Trenton,  Disjoint,   saute,   w.   paprika,   sherry,   Maryland 
butter. 

Waldorf  Astoria,  Disjoint,  saute  w.  sweet  butter,  meat 
glace,   old  sherry,  butter. 

—  169  — 


CANCEL'S     CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 


TURTLE  (Tortues) 


The  turtle  is  one  of  the  most  ancient  of  aliments, 
principally  in  America,  The  largest  ones  are  not  the 
best;  those  weighing  from  80  to  120  lbs.  make  an  ex- 
cellent soup.  Granday's  canned  turtle  is  the  best  in 
the  market.  (See  "Turtle  Soup.")  There  are  differ- 
ent dishes  made  from  the  meat  for  the  amateur. 

Abbreviations:      Same  as  those  for  "Fish." 

Americaine,   Fins   of  turtle   braised   in   Americaine   sa., 

highly  sea. 
Cotelette,   Cut  in  salpicon,  thi.  w.   brown  or  white  sa., 

gar.  and  a.  according  to  name. 
Creole,  Meat  braised  w.  Creole  sa,,  rice. 
Edward    VM,   Boneless    fins    cooked   breaded   w.    butter 

and  crumbs,  broiled,  Piquante  sa. 
Eggs,  Turtle  eggs.     Boiled  or  omelette,  highly  sea.  and 

soft. 
Fricandeau,  Kernel  of  turtle,  larded,  braised,  gar.  and 

sa.  acocrding  to  article. 
Newburg,  Green  of  turtle  cut  in  big  dice,  thi.  Newburg 

sa. 
Pie,  Meat  stewed,  brown  sa.  w.  sherry  wi.,  highly  sea., 

gar.  w.  onions,  salt  pork  and  pot.,  cov.  w.  pie  paste, 

baked. 
Steak,  Broiled  or  saute,  w.  Cumberland  sa.,  etc. 
Soup,  Turtle  soup.     See  "Soup  Tortue." 

DIVERS  EXOTIC  DISHES 
(Mets  divers,  exotique) 

"Prejudice  is  our  common  heritage". 

Abbreviations:   See  heading  of  Fish.     Acayott. 

Mexican   caviar,   made   w.   acayott   eggs,   used   for   "I'e- 
toutla  cake  w.   chili  pimentos. 

—  170  — 


DIVERS    EXOTIC    DISHES 


ALLIGATOR 

Tails,  Take  off  the  skin,  cut  in  thin  slices,  sea.  breaded 
English  style,  fried  in  butter,  served  Tartare  sauce 
and  lemon. 

Brains,  Cooked  sliced,  sea-  cov.  black  butter  vinegar, 
or  lemon  juice. 

Eggs,  same  ordinary  omelet  w.  aromatic  herbs  high- 
ly sea.  cooked  soft  or  scrambled. 

ARMADILL 

Take  the  shell  off  of  the  armadill.  (same  as  turtle) 
cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  cook  same  as  lamb  or 

veal  stew,  moistened  w.  wine  or  water,  add  vinegar 
highly   sea.    and   aromatics. 
Soup,  S'ame  method  as  turtle.     The  shells  make  a  nice 

basket. 

BADGER 

Filet,  Pickled  w,  aromatics  cut  in  slices,  saute  w.  sauce 
highly  sea.    Pepper  sa.    Robert  sa.,  etc. 

BAMBOO  CHRYSALIS 

Certain  Chrysalides  are  edible.  For  the  Chinese  it  is 
considered  a  very  choice  dish.  Before  becoming  a  but- 
terfly, the  insect  is  in  a  state  of  chrysalide.  The  Chi- 
nese put  fhe  chrysalides  in  boiling  water,  and  take  off 


'  ^  f  /  (   {7  7 


Bambou   Chrysalis 

the  shell  in  such  a  manner  that  the  chrysalide  is  not 
touched.  They  are  then  put  in  a  sauce  poulette.  When 
the  blossoms  come  on  the  bamboo  plant,  there  is  pro- 
duced a  curious  phenomena.  A  great  number  of  white 
worms  come  out  from  the  narrow  of  the  stems.  These 
chenilles  contain  an  exquisite  soft  white  substance 
which  resembles   a  thick  cream.    Take  the  head  off  of 

—  171  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

the  body  and  at  the  same  tima  the  intestinal  tube,  then 
eat  the  cream  that  is  enveloped  in  the  contents. 

BISON    AND    BUFFALO 

Canadian  style.  Sliced  hump  put  in  brine  4  days, 
smoked  w.  savory  herbs,  when  dry  pound  very  fine 
and  mix  w.  bison  fat,  ready  for  soup  or  sandwich,  etc. 
Steaks  can  be  cut  from  fresh  bison  meat. 

BUFFALO 

The  only  part  of  the  buffalo  edible  is  the  snout. 
Cooked  the  same  as  calf's  head,  highly  condimented 
w.   divers   sa.  highly  seasoned. 

CAMEL    AND    DROMEDARY 

The  hump  is  the  best  part  of  the  camel.  See  Veal. 
Kernel.  Braised  w.  little  curry,  stewed  w.  camel  sto- 
mach mixed  w.  sweet  potatoes,  green  wheat  or  rice, 
sea.  and  little  water  smothered.  Foot  of  dromedary 
vinaigrette   sauce   scalded,   cooked   same   as   calf's   feet. 

CASTOR 

The  meat  of  castor  has  a  very  strong  flavor.  Pickle 
before  using.    Make   stew  highly  seasoned. 

DOG 

For  a  long  time  the  Chinese  ate  a  special  dog  w. 
black  palate  and  without  hair.  Berlin  opened  a  dog 
butchery  before  the  beginning  of  the  war.  Cook  the 
same  as  lamb  stew  broiled  or  roasted. 

ELEPHANT 

The  Troglodyte  people  live  only  on  elephant  meat, 
the  trump  and  foot  being  mostly  used.  (See  camel  for 
preparation.) 

—  172  — 


DIVERS    EXOTIC    DISHES 


GRASSHOPPER   OR    LOCUST    (SautereSle)      . 

Jean-Baptiste  when  on  the  desert  lived  on  grassh^j)!- 
pers  before  the  coming  of  the  Messiah.  ■  ;; -• 

The  disgust  that  people  have  for  the  grasshopper  is 
a  false  prejudice.  They  live  only  upon  leaves,  plants 
and  fresh  herbs..  The  grasshopper  is  cleaner  in  its  eat- 
ing than  the  hog,  that  everybody  likes.  Let  us  hope 
that  the  new  countries  in  Africa  will  bring  us  some  neW 
recipes. 

SALTED  LOCUST   (Sauterelles  Salees) 

Cook  in  pickled  brine  highly  seasoned.  Refresh  in 
cold  water,  pick  same  as  shrimps. 

ROAST    LOCUST    (Sauterelles   Roties) 

Put  the  locusts  on  a  red  hot  metal  plate,  cook  and 
keep  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold,  take  off  head, 
wings  and  tail,  eat  same  as  shrimps.  Roasted  locusts 
pounded  fine,  make  excellent  mush  and  cake.  Salted 
locusts  can  be  conserved  in  a  jar,  covered  with  mutton 
grease. 

HIPPOPOTAMUS 

The  native  people  of  Capetown  consider  the  meat  of 
the  hippopotamus  excellent.  It  is  boiled  or  roasted  the 
same  as  beef.    The  fat  is  used  in  the  place  of  butter. 

HORSEMEAT 

Horsemeat  has  the  advantage  over  beef  because  one 
never  need  fear  tuberculosis.  If  the  animal  is  fattened 
by  the  butcher  it  can  be  used  as  an  aliment.  Tlie  only 
times  horse  meat  should  not  be  eaten  is  when  the  an- 
imal dies  of  glanders,  farcy  or  water  leg.  All  large 
cities  have  their  hippophagique  butcheries.  Paris  in 
1869.  London  in  1878.  For  all  preparations  of  horse 
meat  see  beef.    (Same  preparation). 

KANGAROO 

The  kangaroo  meat  is  excellent,  and  is  compared  to 

—  173  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

venison.  The  tenderloin  cf  the  kangaroo  is  the  best 
part,  the  tails  are  used  for  tail  soup.  Same  pre- 
paration  as  beef. 

OPPOSUM— POLE  CAT— RACOON 

Pole  Cat.  Small  animal,  very  smart,  enemy  of  chickens 
and  rabbits.  Saute  same  rabbit  style,  same  Opposum, 
Racoon,    pickled   before    cooking,    same   preparation. 

PARROTS 

Jj   QBTJA. 
Chilean  people  eat  parrots  and  principally  the  eggs. 
S'ame  preparation  as  partridge.   Chaud-froid  and  dressed 
with  feathers. 

;  POULP   AND    CUTTLE-FISH 

The  ink-fish  and  cuttle  fish  should  be  bought  already 
cleaned,  otherwise  it  is  too  difficult  to  do  one's  self. 
They  require  a  long  time  to  cook  and  should  be  highly 
spiced  and  seasoned.  They  are  cooked,  braised,  fried, 
saute   or   pickled. 

SEAL 

The  meat  of  the  seal  is  the  principal  aliment  for 
people  of  Greenland.  The  liver,  heart  and  lungs  are  con- 
sidered the  best  part.  The  skin  is  used  for  clothing.  The 
intestines  and  nerves  are  used  for  string  and  thread. 
The  bladder  is  used  for  bottles-  Extract  of  oil  is  made 
with  the  fat.     Same   preparation   as   fish. 

SNAKE 

Mexicans  and  Indians  eat  snakes  cooked  in  ashes 
or  boiled.  All  reptiles  are  good  to  eat,  if  the  head  is 
cut  off  and  the  gall  taken  out.     Cook  same  as  fish. 

WHALE 

The  fins  of  the  whale  are  considered  a  great  delicacy 
by  the  Esquimaux,  it  ressembles  very  much  beef 
meat.  Take  off  fat,  cut  in  pieces,  cook  in  matelote 
style,    also    steak    and    brains. 

—  IT  4  — 


ORIENTAL   DISHES 


ORIENTAL  DISHES 
Chinese  and  Japanese 

Culinary  art  is  very  poor  in  China  and  Japan.  The 
Japanese  do  not  give  the  recipes  for  their  cooking.  I 
remember  when  I  was  at  Sherrys'  20  years  ago  we  were 
to  prepare  a  dinner  for  Madame  Burden  who  had  just 
returned  from  Japan.  Certain  dishes  were  to  be  served 
as  in  Tokio,  but  we  were  never  able  to  obtain  any  rec- 
ipes from  them.  They  were  willing  to  prepare  the  di]> 
ner  themselves.  Fortunately  we  had  a  few  recipes  and 
were  able  to  serve  the  dinner.  In  Japan  and  China  they 
put  on  the  table  in  front  of  each  guest  a  lacquertray 
covered  with  a  napkin  and  a  pair  of  traditional  chop 
sticks,  which  serves  as  knife  and  fork,  to  nibble  a  few 
of  the  numerous  dishes  such  as  sesame  seeds,  fish  frit- 
ters with  green  peas,  oysterplant,  fish  in  oil  of  sesame 
seed,  raw  dorade  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  great  delicacy 
for  the  Japanese,  radishes,  leaves  of  cabbage  pickled 
in  brine,  ginko,  very  much  like  apricots,  gin-sing,  soya 
root,  the  chy-wa-ly-yu,  a  very  fine  fish,  the  chin-  chow, 
jelly  of  seaweed.  Rice  takes  the  place  of  bread  and  is 
the  principal  alimentation  of  the  Japanese  and  is  cooked 
in  a  special  manner.  The  rice  is  of  beautiful  white  color 
and  very  tender.  The  only  thing  left  for  us  to  learn  is 
the  chicken  broth,  beaten  with  yolk  of  eggs,  and  served 
in  small  Japanese  cups  with  a  cover.  Their  food  is  pre- 
pared without  salt  and  to  give  it  flavoring  they  put  in 
it  a  sauce  known  as  "soya"  a  sort  of  ketchup  made  of 
peas  of  soya,  which  they  add  to  each  dish.  The  "Saba- 
kiri"  is  a  sort  of  dough  or  paste  made  with  wheat  and 
buckwheat  in  shape  of  macaroni.  The  "gobo"  roots  of 
China  Aniseed,  and  shell  fish  are  highly  estimed.  They 
put  a  piec-^  of  these  in  all  of  the  presents  they  make 
to  their  friends,  as  a  token  of  sympathy.  The  "sake"  is 
a  Japanese  brandy  made  from  rice.  In  Japan  and  China 
the  "soya  bean"  is  an  undispensable  product  like  rice 
and  wheat  to  Europeans.  Flour  is  made  out  of  the 
soya  bean,  also  mush,  bread,  pastry,  cheese  and  ket- 
chup. 

—  175  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDJA 

SAUCE    OF    SOYA    BEAN 

Cook  the  soya  bean  the  same  as  fresh  green  peas. 
Take  the  coction  when  reduced.  The  pod  of  the  bean 
is  roasted  and  cooked  separately  with  different  season- 
ings, especially  ginger,  mace  and  mashed  salted  an- 
chovies. The  two  liquids  are  mixed,  strained,  reduced 
and  then  put  in  bottles. 

CHEESE   OF  SOYA   BEANS) 

.^.  Put  fresh  soya  beans  in  water  without  salt.  AVhen 
they  are  nearly  cooked  reduce  the  amount  of  water, 
then  cook  until  tender.  Pour  in  earthen  jar,  let  stand 
until  they  form  a  jelly.  Warm  over  again.  Take  off 
the  liquid  and  strain,  then  add  the  liquid  which  is  very 
i-ich,  and  a  little  milk  or  butter  to  make  the  ferment- 
ation. Salt  it.  Put  in  a  cloth,  let  all  the  water  drip 
off.  Then  the  cheee  is  made  and  with  age  it  is  better. 
It  is  finished  like  potato  cheese,  which  is  dried  on 
cheese  stands  and  washed  in  salt  water. 

ORIENTAL   DISHES    (Mandarin   Styles.) 

Abbreviations   (see  heading  the  same. 

Bor  lor  gal,  Fried  chicken  w.  pineapple. 

Bor  io  ap,  Fried  young  duck  w.  pineapple. 

But  fai  gai,   Boneless    fried   ch.  w.  bamboo  shoots  and  mu. 

Chee  bar  ap,  Boneless  fried  duck  w.  ham,  bamboo  shoots 

in  Chinese  condiment. 
Ching    done   ting    kwo,    Good    chicken    soup   w.    bamboo 

shoots  and  mushrooms. 
Ching  done  Yee  too,  Fish  w.  ham,  Chinese  condiments. 
Chow  gai  Pin,  Fried  fine  cut  ch.  w.  black  mu. 
Chow  ku  soo  ya  gop,  Squab  saute  w.  mu.  and  Chinese 

vege. 
Chop-Suey,  Divers  chop  suey  w.  fish,  lobster,  meat,  chi. 

duck,  pork,  etc.  Preparation.  Meats,  fried  Chinese 
^" ■'Style.  Chicken,  sliced  mu.  moisten  w.  ch.  stock  and 
i'-Ghinese  chee-yow  and  see-you  sauces  w.  bamboo 
^iioots,  sliced  onions,  celery,  fresh  Chinese  beans 
sprouts,  same  sauces.  Serve  w.  bowl  of  plain  rice.  Also 
shredded  chi.   on  top. 

—  176  — 


ORIENTAL   DISHES 


Chow-Mein,  Same  chicken  chop  suey  w.  fried  noodles 
serve  separately  with  plain  rice.  Subgiim  as  sweet 
pickled  w.  Chinese  condim^ent.    Used  for  many  dishes. 

Foong  Wong  Chee,  Shark's  fin  w.  eggs,  ham,  fried 
onions. 

Fan  Kare  Ap,  Fried  duck  w.  tomatoes. 

Foo  Young   Chee,  Shark's  fins  w.  eggs,  ham  and  pork. 

For  Kup  Bow  Gee,  Awabi  w.  ham  and  Chinese  vege- 
tables. 

Gai  Young  Chee,  Boneless  ch.  w.  shark's  fins  saute. 

Mo    Kwo   Gai,   Chicken  w.  white  rau.   and  ham. 

Mo  Kwo  gai  pan.  Imperial  chop  ssuey.  (See  chop  suey) 
chicken  add  duck  and  pigeon's  heart,  peeled  almond 
pistachio,  walnut,  ginger  roots,  same  sa.  serve  fried 
noodles   and   plain   rice. 

Hong  lee  ap,  Boneless  duck  w.  bamboo  shoots  saute. 
Hong-Sun    ap   w.    mu. 

Kwo  Che  Gai,  Chicken  w.  many  kinds  of  fruit. 

Kwo  cheap,  Duck  w.  many  kinds  of  fruit. 

Li  chee  gai,  Chicken  w.  li  chee  sauce. 

Lin  Chee  ap,  Boneless  duck  w.  stuffed  lotus  berries. 

Lut  chee  gai.  Chicken  with  chestnut  and  ham. 

Qua  far  chee.   Shark's  fins  w.   eggs,  ham,   onions,   mu. 

Qua  far  ap,   Boneless  duck  w.   eggs,   ham,  onions,   mu. 

Qua  far  ap,  Boneless  duck  w.  bamboo  shoots. 

Sam  see  chee.  Shark's  fins,  shredded  chicken,  ham, 
green  onions. 

Sai  Woo  Ap,  Boneless  duck  prepared  w.  different  kinds 
of  Chinese  condim'ents,  trimmed  w.   Chinese  parsley. 

See  I  in  gai,  Chicken  w.  lotus  berries. 

Shu  Ap,  Broiled  young  duck,  shu  gai  broiled  chicken. 

Soo  chew  gar,  Boneless  chicken  v/,  ham,  mu-  and  eggs. 

Show  cow  chee,  Shark's  fins  w.  bamboo  shoots  ham  and 
pork. 

Sun  See  Ap,  Boneless  duck  w.  white  mu.  and  bamboo 
shC'Ots   in   Chinese   condiments. 

6ub  gum  Doubtfoo,  Bean  curd  w.  boneless  chicken,  mu., 
ham  and  olives.  ..     .. 

Tim  seen  gai   pin.  Sweet  pungent,  boneless   chi. 

Tung  Kwo  gai.  Chicken  w.  black  mushrooms. 


-_^  177 


GANG  EL'S     GULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

What  Kai,  Chinese  pot  roast,  chicken  whole,  w.  mush- 
rooms. -     - 

Yueen  Wor  Ap,  Duck  w.  edible  bird's  nest. 

Yokaimen,  Ch.  broth  w.  noodles  parboiled,  ch.,  sliced 
smoked  pork,  hard  boiled  eggs,   cut  in  half. 

NOTE — For  esculent  swallow,  see  "Salanga  Nest  Soup.'* 
Divers    Chinese    Condiments,    etc. 

Sauces:  Chee-yow,  (See  Yow),  Soya  sa.,  Que-tone  sa.. 
Spice  sauce;  Spice-salt,  Subgum.  Sweet  pickled  and 
divers  preserved  Chinese  fruits,  ginger,  etc.,  bamboo 
shoot,  Chinese  beans,  sprouts,  Chinese  mushrooms, 
black  and  white. 

Divers  Chinese  Names  of  Foods 

Mean  Bow  "Bread";  Kow  you  "Butter";  Gai  "Chic- 
ken"; Ap  "Duck";  Back  Kop  Sai  "Squab";  Kow  yock 
"Beef";  Kow  sai  yock  "Veal";  Young  yock  'mutton"; 
Gee  yock  "Pork";  For  toy  "Ham";  Soy  Hap  'Game"; 
Hue  'Fish";  Har  "STirimps";  Hae  "Crabs";  Sar  Back 
"Clams";    Kai  tan   "Eggs";    Yow  "Oil." 


BEEF  (Boeuf) 

There  are  a  great  many  different  varieties  of  beef  in 
America,  France  and  England.  The  quality  differs  ac- 
cording to  age,  health,  race,  food,  season  and  the 
country.  The  superior  quality  of  the  meat  is  known 
by  a  layer  of  fat,  which  is  thick,  firm  and  of  a  yellow 
white,  the  flesh  is  a  bright  red  color,  and  marbled  with 
fat.  Beef  is  inexhaustible  in  culinary  art,  and  a  menu 
cannot  be  made  without  it.  A  great  many  savorous  pre- 
parations are  made  from  this  marvelous  animal.  Short- 
loin,  beefsteak,  tenderloin,  Chateaubriand,  ribs  of  beef, 
mignon,  filet.  There  are  four  different  special  prepa- 
rations of  beef,  such  as  braised,  boiled,  broiled,  roasted 
or  saute,  which  are  served  with  a  different  variety  of 

—  178  — 


BEEF 

sauces  and  garnishings,  which  is  the  art  of  French 
cooking.  Beef  exceeds  the  total  of  all  other  meats  used 
in  the  preparation  of  food  in  civilized  countries. 

Abbrevations:  AIL,  Allemande;  art,  artichoke;  asp., 
asparagus;  croq.,  croquette;  crus.,  crustade;  esp.,  es- 
pagnoie;  dec,  decorated;  foi-g.,  foie-gras;  gar.,  garnish; 
gr.  pe.,  green  pepper;  hoi.,  hoUandaise;  juL,  julienne; 
mad.,  madeira;  mu.,  mushrooms;  pot.,  potatoes;  pu., 
puree;  quen.,  quenelle;  sa.,  sauce;  sea.,  seasoned;  sw, 
br.,  sweetbreads;  sw.  pep.,  sweet  peppers;  thi.,  thick; 
torn.,  tomatoes;  truf.,  truffles;  vege.,  vegetables;  w., 
with;    wh.,  white. 


TIME   TO   COOK    MEAT 


The  following  time  given  is  the  time  required  in  the 
kitchen  after  the  waiter  has  given  his  order,  and  wait- 
ers should  be  instructed  to  so  inform  the  patrons. 

—  179  — 


GANG  EL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

BEEF— BROILED   OR   SAUTE 

Chateaubriand,  20  to  30  min.  according  to  size. 
Extra  Fillet,  15  to  25  min.  according  to  size. 
Fillet,  9  to  10  ounces,  10  to  15  min. 
Mignon   or  Tournedos,   6  to  8   ounces,  8   to   10   min. 
Porterhouse  Steak,  20  to  30  min.  according  to   size. 
Sirloin   Steak,  1  lb.,  10  to  15  min.     Extra,  20  min. 

Sliced   Tenderloin   or  Sirloin,  3   to  5  min. 

.v 

BEEF— ROAST 

Ribs,  5  to  7  ribs,  2  to  3V^  liours. 

Sirloin,   30   to   40   min. 

Tenderloin  or  Fillet,  20  to  30  min.;   w.  fat,  30  to  45  min. 

Braised  Beef,  according  to  size,  2  to  4  hours. 

NOTE — Meats  to  be  stuffed  sliould  first  be  broiled  or 
saute  .lightly  on  one  side,  then  pressed,  trimmed  and 
cooled  before  stuffing,  covered  with  forcemeat  and 
decorated. 

Small  granishings  are  generally  used  for  Mignon,  Noi- 
sette, etc.,  and  large  garnishings  for  big  pieces  or 
whole  Tenderloin,  Sirloin,  etc.  All  articles  to  be  broiled 
should  be  seasoned,  dipped  in  butter  or  oil.  All  ar- 
ticles saute  should  be  quick,  remove  article,  place  in 
sauce  pan  white  wine  or  sherry,  reduce,  then  add  this 
stock  to  the  garnishing  or  sauce.  Serve  on  fancy  bread 
crust  according  to  article.  Prohibition  in  America 
forbids  the  use  of  wines  or  liquors  in  french  cooking. 

Boiled  or  Braised  Beef  are  generally  cooked  in  ad- 
vance. 

Casserole  or  Planked  Steak  are  cooked  to  order. 

All  cooked  meats  vary  according  to  quality  and  taste. 

Terms  and  different  cuts  generally  used  in  restau- 
rant and   butchers. 

FRENCH    AND    ENGLISH    TERMS    AND 
DIVERS  COOKING 

Aiguillette,   Long  narrow  slices,   broiled   or   saute. 
Aloyau,  Hip  loin,  loin  of  beef,  short  loin,   boneless  sir- 
loin,  braised   or   roasted   or   sirloin  steak. 

—  180  — 


BEEF 

Anglaise,  Englisih  mutton  choi)  cut  in  saddle  w.  kidney, 

generally  broiled.     Same  lamb  or  veal. 
Baron,  Hind  saddle  with  legs  attached,  mutton  or  lamb, 

roasted  together. 
Bifteck   (Beefsteak),  Porterhouse  steak,  round  s.,  rump 

St.,  tenderloin  st.,  sirloin  st.     Per  affiliation,  ham  st., 

lamb  St.,  veal  St.,  broiled  or  saute.     Also  rib  steak. 
Bouchere    (Butcher  style).  Chops   not  trimmed,   broiled 

or  saute. 
Carre,  Rack  of  all  meats,  broiled,  roasted  or  braised.    , 
Chateaubriand,    Large    thick    tenderloin    steak,      2    lbs., 

broiled  or  saute. 
Carbonade,  All  sliced  fat  meat,  braised. 
Cimier,  Saddle  w.  haunch,  term  only  for  venison.     See 

"Selle." 
Coeur   de    Filet,    Small   tenderloin    taken   from    the    best 

part  of  fillet,  trimmed  round,  broiled  or  saute. 
Collet,  Neck  of  all  animals,  boneless,  boiled  or  braised. 
Contra  Filet,  Whole  boneless  sirloin,  larded,  braised  or 

roasted,  cut  thick  slice  for  steak,  broiled  or  saute. 
Cote  de  Boeuf,  Ribs  of  beef.     1  rib  for  steak,  3  to  7  for 

roasted  or  braised. 
Cotelette,  Chop,  cutlet,  one  piece  of  chop,  small  animal. 
Couronne,    Rack   and   loin,    turned    crown    shape,    add 

chop   bone   on   loin   part   tie.     Roasted. 
Cuisse,  Generally  whole  leg  of  beef,  braised,   boiled  or 

steak. 
Cuisseau    (Whole  leg  of  veal),     Round  of  veal,     steak, 

sliced,    stewed,    etc.,    braised,    broiled,    saute. 
Cuissot   Haunch   of  venison,   braised,   broiled,   roasted. 
Culotte    Aitchbone    of    beef,    braised,    boiled,    roasted. 
Delmonico,  Extra  steak  or  rib  steak  w.  bone,  broiled  or 

saute. 
Double,  All  cuts  of  meat  double  size,  steaks,  chops,  etc. 
Eminces,      Cut  meat   in   thin   slices,     sometimes   called 

"minced"   saute. 
Entre-cote,  Ribs  of  beef  steak,  sometimes  called  "sirloin 

steak,"   braised,   broiled  or  saute. 
Epaule   (Shoulder),  Beef,  mutton,  lamb,  pork,  etc.  bone- 
less, cut  for  stev/,  braised,  boiled,  roasted,  a.lso  blade. 

—  181  — 


CANCEL'S     CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Escaloppe   or    Escalopette    (cut  thin),   All   meats   saute 

and  breaded,  heart  shape,  broiled  or  saute. 
Extra,  Special  cut,  double  size,  broiled  or  saute. 
Faux  Filet,  Boneless  sirloin,  without  tenderloin,  braised 

broiled   or   saute. 
Filet,  Tenderloin  of  all  meats  principally  beef,  braised, 

broiled,  roasted,  saute. 
Flanchet,  Flank  of  beef,  brisket,  fresh  or  salted,  boiled 

and  braised. 
Fricandeau,  Larded   kernel  of  veal,   split,  braised. 
Gigot,  Leg  of  lamb,  mutton,  braised,  boiled,  roasted. 
Gigue,  Leg  of  venison,  steak,  braised,  or  roasted  whole. 
Grenadin,  Stoall  slice  veal  or  beef,  larded  and  braised, 

also  broiled  or  saute. 
Griliette,  All  hashed  meats  in  caul,  broiled. 
Hachee,  All  meat  chopped  fine,  broiled  or  saute. 
Hambourg,    Hamburg    beef,    smoked    and    salted,    sliced 

raw   or   boiled,   also   Hamburg   steak,   chopped   beef. 
Jambon,  Ham,  leg  of  pork,  broiled,  braised,   roast. 
Jambonneau,   Knuckle   salted,   boiled,   cold,   breaded   w. 

crumbs. 
Jarret,  Beef  or  knuckle  of  veal,  broiled  or  braised.  Also 

pork. 
Languette,  Long  narrow  slices  of  meat,  broiled  or  saute. 
Longe,   Boneless     loin  of  veal   w.  kidneys,     braised   or 

roasted. 
Mignon  or  Mignonette,  Small  tenderloin  trimmed  round, 

broiled  or  saute. 
Minute,    Steak      cut   thin,   tenderloin   or   sirloin,      saute 

quickly. 
Noisette,  Very  small  pieces  of  divers  meat  without  fat 

and  bone,  nicely  trimmed  round,  broiled  or  saute. 
Noix,  Nut  or  kernel     of  veal,     also  round     top  of  beef, 

braised  or  broiled. 
Os,  Bone,  marrow  bone,  boiled,  broiled  or  sliced. 
Onglees  or   HamfD,  Special  piece  tenderloin  of  butcher, 

broilad  or  saute. 
Palais  (Palate),  Beef  palate,  boiled,  also  small  pieces  of 

tenderloin,  saute  quickly. 
Paleron,  Blade  of  shoulder  of  divers  meats,  braised  or 

roasted,    generally   lamb. 

—  182  — 


BEEF 

Paupiette,  Slices  thin  meat  stuffed,  rolled,  braised. 
Petit  Sale,  Breast  of  salt  pork,  boiled,  or  smoked  bacon 

broiled,  boiled,  fry. 
Plat-de-C6te,  Short  ribs  of  beef,  braised  or  boiled. 
Poitrine,   Breast   of   different   meats,   boneless,   stuffed, 

braised   or   boiled. 
Porterhouse,   Steak  cut     on  the     short     loin,     broiled, 

braised,  saute. 
Pounded,    Steak   divers   styles. 

Quartier,   Quarter   of   venison,   lamb   or   mutton.     Fore- 
quarter    or    hindquarter. 
Quasi,  Edgebone  a  piece  of  veal  cut   from   the  end  of 

the  loin,  braised  or  roasted. 
Rable,  Back  used  only  hare  or  rabbit,  roasted. 
Ragout,   Meat   cut  in   square   pieces,     braised,     stewed 

or  smothered. 
Rondin,  Thick  piece  of  meat  trimmed  round,  broiled  or 

saute. 
Rognon,  Part  of  veal  w.     kidney     adherent,     braised  or 

roasted.   (See  "Longe.") 
Roast  beef.  Prime  rib  of  beef,  roasted. 
Rouelle,   Round     sliced   leg   of     veal,   larded,     braised, 

round  sliced  leg  of  lamb,  broiled  or  saute. 
Roulade,  Boneless  meat  rolled,  tied,  braised  or  roasted. 
Rumpsteak,  Top  of  loin,  steak,  broiled  or  saute. 
Selie,  Saddle  of  lamb,  mutton,  veal  or  venison,  braised 

or  roast. 
Steak,  Beef,  lamb,  mutton,  veal,  etc.,  broiled  or  saute. 
Souder,  Brace  chops,  broiled,  cut  saddle  or  rack. 
Tendrons,  Gristle  of  veal  or  beef,  braised. 
Tete  d'AIoyau,  Rump  steak,  same  application  for  sirloin. 
Tranche,  All  kinds  of  meats  sliced  thin  saute  quickly. 

MISCELLANEOUS  APPLICATIONS  FOR 
DIVERS   MEATS 

(Abbreviations  same  as  those  for  "Beef.") 

Aloyau,  Short  loin  gar,  bourgeoise,  fermiere,  jardiniere, 
Richeleiu,  Flamande,  primeur. 

—  183  — 


GANG  EL'S      GULINARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

Baiiotine,   Small  "ball"  of  meat,  chicken,     squab,     gar. 

vege.  pu.  or  acording  to  article. 
Beefsteak,  Beefsteak,  10  ounces,  gar.  mu.  Bercy,  Bear- 

naise,  pudding,  pie,  etc. 
Bitock,   Russian   steak,   chopped,  6   ounces,   oval   shape, 

fried  w.  butter,  moisten  ere.,  smothered  sliced  onions, 

saute  pot.,  horseradish  if  desired. 
Braise,   All   kinds    of   meat     cooked   in   a  braising  pan, 

w.  sliced  onions,  carrots,  spice  and  condiments,  meat 
on  top,   smothered     and     moistened   w.   wine  or   stock 

according  to  meat,  gar.  w.  all  kinds  vege.  and  sa. 


Brochette,  On  skewer,  alternate  w.  bacon  and  mu.,  gar. 
and   sa.  optional. 

Carbonades,  Sliced  meat  saute  w.  onions,  cooked  w. 
beer  and  Espagnole  sa. 

Chateaubriand,  Gar.  w.  pot.,  mu.,  truf.,  Bordelaise  or 
Bearnaise  sa.  according  to  name. 

Chevreuil,  Meat  cut  grenadin  shape  and  pickled  or 
venison,  gar.  and  sa.  use  venison. 

Chili  con  carne,  Mexican  beef  cut  in  big  dice  w.  chop- 
ped onions,  chili  pepper,  tom.  pu.  highly  sea.,  smothe- 
red,  served  frijoles   separately  or  mixed  w.   meat. 

Choesels,  Use  chopped  onions,  ox  tail,  beef  breads, 
beef  kidneys,  gristle  of  veal,  mutton  feet,  fricadella, 
mu.,  sweetbreads,  all  cut  and  cooked  according  to 
article,  fried  and  braised,  moistened  w.  Iambic  beer 
and   madeira,   tlii.   w.   corn   stare -i,   serve   boile''.   pot. 

Collet,  Neck,  boneless,  braised  or  boiled,  gar.  w.  vege. 
and  sauce. 

—  184  — 


BEEF 

Contre-filet,   Boneless  shortloin,   same  gar.  aloyaii. 
Corned    beef    (Beef  in   brine),   See   "Pickled,"   boiled  w. 

cabbage   or   dry   vege.    pu.     New   England   dinner,    w. 

beef,  salt  pork,  fowl  and  vege. 
Culotte,     Aitchbone,   boiled   or   braised,     rump   gar.   all 

kinds  vege.  or  pu. 
Daube,  Meat  smothered   same  way  as  Provincial  stew, 

w.    spices    and   wine.     See    "Braised."     4    to    5    hours, 

fat  taken  off  before  served. 
Em inces,    Sliced   meat,   raw,    saute   quickly     w.     divers 

sa.  Creole,  Provengale,  cooked  meat,  sa.  ready  before 

put  on  the  meat. 
Entre-cote,   1,  2   or  3   lbs.,   according  to  desire,   broiled 

or  saute,  divers  butter,  sa.,  gar.  or  pot. 
Escalope,   Sliced  meat,   saute   quickly,   gar.   and  sa.   op- 
tional.    French  term  for  small  slices. 
Estouffade,      Same    Daube    style.       Pot    roast   w.    small 

quantity  of  stock,  synonym  of  braised,  etuve,  smothe- 
red, etc,  gar.  and  sa.  optional. 
Filet,  Whole  tenderloin,  larded  or  plain,  braised,  roasted, 

gar.     See  "Beef  Filet  Mignon,"  cut,  broiled  or  saute. 
Fricadelle,  6   ounces  chopped  meat,  ball  shape,  raw  or 

cooked  w.  onions,   egg  yolk,  parsley,   sea.,  sa.   or  pu. 
Fricandeau,  Kernel  of  veal,  turtle,  turkey,  braised,  gar. 

w.  divers  vege.  and  stock  or  sa. 
Fume,   Smoked  beef,   Hamburg,  An  vers,   breast,   hot   w. 

lentils,    beans,   vege.,    or   cold. 
Goulash,  Hungarian  meat,  cut  in  large  dices,  w.  onions, 

paprika,      pot.,      turnips,     water,    tom.    pu.,    sea.,    gar. 

noodles,  rice  etc. 


Grenadin  of  Meat 

Grenadin,  Small  slices  of  fo-meat,  larded,  braised,  saute 

or  broiled,  divers  gar.  and  sa.   (Heart  shape). 
Hachis,  Meat  cut  in  small  dices.     See  "Hachis." 

—  185  — 


GANCBL'S     CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Hambourg,  6  ounces  chopped  meat  w.  marrow  and 
cooked  onions,  sea.,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 

Kebap,  "Turkish"  mutton,  cut  in  squares  w.  aromatic 
herbs,  on  skewer  alternate  w.  mutton  fat,  sea.  and 
roasted,  beef,  filet  the  same. 

Kerfedes  (Greek),  Chopped  meats  w.  cooked  chopped 
onions, Hambourg  shaped,  breaded  w.  egg  or  corn- 
meal,  fried  w.  butter,  curry  sa.  w,  mu-,  same  style 
w.  game,  gar.  w.  ceps,  morils  and  gribouis,  Madeira. 

Kokoretia  (Greek),  Heart,  liver,  kidney  lamb,  on  skewer, 
alternate  w.  mint  leaves,  sage,  fat,  broiled  or  roasted. 

Loaf,  All  meat  chopped,  sea.,  mixed  w.  ham,  veal,  etc., 
hot  or  cold  (Pain  de  viande,  or  pate). 

Medallion,  Tenderloin,  cut  in  medaillon  shape,  trim- 
med, cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  on  top,  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
according  to  the  name.   (5  ounces). 

Mignon,  Small  fillet  6  ounces,  broiled  or  saute,  gar.  and 
sa.     See  "Beef  Filet  Mignon." 

Mi  ronton,  All  cooked  meat,  sliced  w.  Lyonnaise  sa., 
meat  in  pot.     Duchesse  border,  baked. 

Mode,  All  beef  braised  w.  carrots,  small  onions,  glazed. 

Noisette,  5  ounces  of  small  nuts,  lamb,  use  rack  or 
saddle,  take  out  fat  and  bone;  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
See  "Lamb." 

Paleron,  Blade  of  shoulders,  divers  meats,  braised, 
divers  gar. 


Slice  for  Paupiette 

Paupiette,      Thin    slices   of   meat   stuffed      and     rolled, 
braised,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  the  name. 

—  186  — 


BEEF— MIGNON  AND  DECORATIVES 

Pcpporoni    (Italian   dish),     Steak    cut   in    small   pieces, 

w.  green  peppers  and  onions,  saute  w.  oil  and  garlic. 
Plat  de  Cote,  Short  ribs  of  beef,  braised  or  boiled,  gar. 

w.  vege.,  horseradish  sa.,  bouillon  pot,  etc. 
Planche,  All  meat  planked,  border  of  Duchesse  pot.  gar. 

around  with  divers  vege.  and  sa. 
Rindsbraten,  Braised  beef  made  German  style  w.  jul.  of 

carrots,   turnips,   gar.   pot.   quen.     or   pot.    cakes   and 

stock. 
Roast  Beef,  Roast  w.  gravy,  gar.  and  sa.  optional. 
Rump  steak,     Broiled,  braised  or  roasted,     divers   gar. 

and  sa. 
Sale,  Salted  meat,  corned  beef,  pork,  etc.,  gar.  w.  vege. 

pu. 
Steak,    Broiled,    saute,    minute    steak.      Beefsteak,    pie, 

pudding,  etc.  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  the  name. 
Sauerbraten,  Pickled  beef  w,  vinegar,  braised  w.  brown 

sa.  and  sour  cream.     See  "Rindsbraten." 
Schnitzel,    Paprika,   Veal,    saute,    moistened    cream   and 

paprika. 
Tournedos,  5  ounces  small  tenderloin,  saute  quickly,  sa. 

and  gar.     See  "Beef  Filet  Mignon." 
Tranches,      Sliced   beef,   lamb,   veal,      saute   or   broiled 

quickly.       Minute   steak,   sa.   and   gar.,     pot.  and   sa. 

optional. 
Weiner   Schnitzel,    Sliced   veal,   breaded   English   style, 

fried  in  butter,  cov.  Meuniere  butter. 

BEEF — Mignon  and  Derivatives 

(Filet  de  Boeuf  et  ses  Derives) 

Alg6rienne,  Stuffed  w.  chestnut  pu.  on  croq.  of  sweet 
pot,  gar.  w.  baked  small  tom.  around,  mad.  sa. 

Alsacienne,  On  choucroute  thi.  w.  foi-g.  pu.,  slice  ot 
ham,  mad.  sa. 

Ambassade,  Gar.  w.  timbale  of  cauliflower  glazed,  crus. 
of  sweetb.,  Parisienne  pot.,  truf.  sa. 

—  187  — 


GANG  EL'S      GU  LI  NARY      ENCYGLOPEDIA 

Americaine,   Gliopped  raw   tenderloin,   gar.   w.   raw  egg 

yolk   on   top,    chopped     onions,     fi-her.      and     capers 

around. 
Andaiouse,  Gar.   w.   stuf.   sw.  pep.  and  torn.   w.   risotto, 

Spanish  sausag>e  on  sliced  Med  egg  plant,  torn.  sa. 
Anderson,  Sliced  filet  saute  w.  onions  and  gr.  pep.,  demi- 

glace  sa. 
Andre,   Sliced  filet  and  veal  kidney  saute,   fi-herb. 
Anglaise,  Breaded  English  style,  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter, 

w.  boiled  pot. 
Anversoise,  Gar.  w.  hop  shoots,  boiled  pot.   demi-glace 
Aquitaine,  Gar.  w.  quen.,  mu.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 

truf.,  olives,  chestnuts,  cepes,  mad,  sa.  w.  tom. 
Arlesienne,    Gar.    w.    egg-plant   in    dices,    pounded    tom. 

and   French  fried  onions,   mad.   sa.   w.   tom. 
Balard,  Same  as  Martin,  sliced  sirloin  and  minute  pot. 
Baltimore,  On  cru.  fil.  w.  green  corn,  thi.  ere.  half  fried, 

tom.  and  sliced  gr.-pep.  on  top,  Chateau  sa. 
Balzac,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  olives  w.  game  fo-meat,  ch.  quen., 

head  mu..  Chasseur  sa. 
Banquiere,  Gar.  around  w.  boneless  stuf.  reed  birds,  w. 

foi-g.,  crown  of  truf.  on  top,  LucuUus  sa. 
Barcelonnette,     Stuf.    w.    sweet   pot.   pu.,   cov.   w.    large 

sweet  pep.  star  shaped,  mad  .sa.  w.  tom. 
Bareda,  Gar.  w.  small  timbal  of  risotto,  bottom  of  art., 
truf.,  dec.  ch.  quen.,  Regence  sa. 
Bayard,  Gar.  w.  slice  of  foi-g.   on  top,  mad.  sa.   w.  jul. 

of  truf.  and  mu. 
Bayonnaise,  On  macaroni  w.  jul.  of  Bayonne  ham,  thi. 

w.  grated  cheese,  mad.   sa.  w.  tom. 
Bearnaise,  Gar.  w.   Chateau  pot.  and  Bearnaise  sa. 
Beaufremont,   Gar.  w.  macaroni  w.  jul.  of  truf.,  thi.  w. 

tom.   sa. 
Beaumarchais,  Cms.  fil.  w.  fresh  mu.  in  ere. 
Beauharnais,   Gar.   w.   head   of  mu.   and   bottom   of   art. 

cut  in  four,  Perigueux  sa. 
Beaver,  Gar.  w.  smothered  onions,  celery,  ham,   cut  in 

large  dices,  thi.  Espagnole  sa.  w.  tom. 

—  188  — 


^•-  '  BEEF— MIGNON  AND  DECORATIVES 

Belleclaire,  In  cocotte,  fil.   w.  pounded  toni.   sliced  mu. 

saute,   fi-herb.,   olivette   pot.   around,   head   of   mu.   on 

top,  Duxelles  sa. 
Belle  Helene,  On  croq.  of  asp.  tips,  crown  of  truf  on  top, 

demi-glace  sa. 
Belmont,   Gar.   w.   fried   cucumbers,   mu.,   truf.,   mad.   sa. 
Benjamin,  Gar.  w.  croq.  of  pot.  w.  truf.,  stuf.  large  mu. 

on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Bercy,  Gov.  w.  Bercy  butter.     See  "Butter." 
Bernard i,    Gar.   w.    crus.   fil.    w.   mixed   vege.   large   dec. 

ch.   quen.  on  top,  Bordelaise  sa.   around. 
Berny,  On  small  Berny  pot.,  sliced  truf.  on  top,  poivrade 

sa.  around. 
Berthier,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  olives  w.  anchovies,  torn.  sa.  w. 

horseradish  around. 
Bienvenue,  Gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  Villeroy,  demi-glace  sa.  w. 

chopped  tongue  and  truf. 
Bitock,  Russian  steak.     See  'Miscellaneous  applications.' 
Bizantine,    Gar.    stuf.    barised    lettuce,    egg-plant    saute, 

cauliflower  saute   or  pu.  thi.  gravy. 
Bohemienne,  Gar.  w.  foi-g.  cut  in  dices,  saute,  mad.  sa. 
Bonnefoy,  On  stuf.  egg-plant  w.  Duxelles  gar.  w.  marrow 

croq.  head  mu.  Colbert  sa. 
Boniface,   Gar.   w.   marrow   croq.    Bordelaise   sa.   w.   mu. 
Bordelaise,  Gar.  w.  cepes  saute,  sliced  marrow  on  top, 

Bordelaise  sa. 
Bouchere,  Gar.   w.  slices  of  salt  pork  saute,  Lyon  sau- 
sage, rissole  pot.,  Bercy  butter  on  top. 
Boulanger,     Gar.  w.  stuff-   bottom  of  art.     fil.  w.   calf's 

brains   and   spinach  pu.,   Parisienne  pot.,   Choron   sa. 
Boulangere,     Large   piece     of   beef   w.   pot.     and   small 
onions,  baked. 
Bouquetiere,  Gar.  w.  fancy  vege.  in  bouquet  around  or 

on  small  fancy  basket,  demi-glace  sa. 
Boucicault,    Gar.    w.    braised    celery,    Bruxelles    sprouts, 

Soubise  sa. 
Brabanconne,      Gar.    w.    pot.    croq.,      Bruxelles    sprouts, 

Mornay  sa.  glazed,  mad.  sa. 
Braccioles,  Slice  of  filet,  fil.  slice  of  ham,  sliced  boiled 

eggs,  raisins  and  rolled,  braised,  thi.  gravy.    ' 

—  189  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bradford,      Gar.    w.    green   corn    croq.,    clams,      fritters, 

horseradish  sa. 
Bragance,    Saute,   moisten   w.    port   wine,    gar.   w.    pot., 

small  tom.,  circle  of  Bearnaise  sa.,  hazelnut  pot. 
Braza,   Gar.   w.   braised   lettuce,   green  peas,   bottom   oi 

art.  cut  in  four,  truf.  in  dices,  mad.  sa. 
Brehan,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.,  fil.  w.  cauliflower,  glazed, 

small   pot.   Parisienne   around,   demi-glace   sa. 
Bretigny,  Gar.  stuf.  reed  birds,  glazed  sweetbreads,  head 

of  mu.,  mad.  sa. 
Bristol,  On  risotto  croq.  gar.  w.  flageolets,  rissole  pot., 

mad.  sa. 
Bruxelloise,     Gar.     braised   endives,     Brussels   sprouts, 

boiled  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Canova,  Gar.  w.  foi.-g.,  saute  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 

truf.,  mad.  sa. 
Canoville,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  lettuce,  braised  chestnuts,  mad. 

sa. 
Capucine,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.,  small  stuf.  cabbage,  mad.  sa. 
Cardinal  ice.  Gov.  w.  mu.  pu.  cov.  w.  cap-  made  of  sweet 

peppers,  truf.  sa.  around. 
Careme,  Gar.  pot.  croq.,  mad.  sa.  w.  olives  and  ham  in 

dices. 
Carnot,   Gar.   w.   stuf.   cucumbers,  marrow  fritters,   cov. 

w.  Perigueux  sa.  on  top,  Bordelaise  sa.  w.  taragon. 
Casserole,  All  small  pieces  of  meat  in  casserole  gar.  ac- 
cording to  the  name:   Bourgeoise,  Bonnefemme,  etc. 
Castillane,  In  crus.  fil.  w.  pounded  tom.  saute  w.  garlic, 

French  fried  onions,  demi-glace  w.  tom. 
Catalane,  Gar.  w.  onions,  glazed,  mu.,  chestnuts,  Spanish 

sausages,  Catalane  sa. 
Cavagnac,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.  and  olives,  ch.  livers,  cock's 

combs  and  kidneys,   beef  palate,   pot.   croq.   crescent 

shape,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Cendrillon,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  onions  pu.  w. 

truf.  on  small  Arlie  pot.  or  slipper  shape,  fil.  gar.  ac- 
cording to  the  name. 
Champignon   (Mushroom),  All  meats  gar.  w.  mu.  or  sa. 
Chanzy,  Gar.  w.  glazed  carrots,  gre.  peas,  mu.  mad.  sa. 

—  190  — 


BEEF— MIGNON  AND  DECORATIVES 

Chasseur  (Hunter  style),  Chasseur  sa. 

Chanteclaire,    Cock's    comb   between   two   kidneys,    cov. 

Villeroy  sa.  and  fried  on  top.     Provengale  sa.,  around 

gar.  w.  pounded  torn.  w.  garlic  and  olivette  pot. 
Chatelaine,    Gar.   w.   bottom   art.   fil.   onion   pu.,   braised 

chestnuts,  hazelnut  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Cheron,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.,  fill,  mixed  vege.,  Parisienne 

pot,  Bearnaise  sa. 
Chevreuse,  On  croq.  semolina  gar.  w.  bottom  art.,  fil.  w. 

mu.  pu.,  torn.   sa. 
Cheval   (a),  "On  Horseback,"     fried  egg  on  top,     demi- 

glace  sa. 
Chevreuil,  Venison  camouflage.     Beef  filet,  pickled  gar., 

chestnut  pu.   and  poivrade  sa.    (See  "Pickled"). 
Chez  Soi,  Cooked  in  earthen  dish  gar.  small  onions,  mu., 

pot.   in   dices,   salt  pork,  after  saute   baked   w.   bercy 

butter.     "Heme  style." 
Chipolata,  Gar.  w.  carrots,  small  onions,  nut  sausages, 

chestnuts,  salt  pork  and  dice,  mad.  sa. 
Choisy,  Gar.  w.   braised  lettuce,  chateau  pot.,  mad.  sa. 
Choron,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.,  fil.  asp.  tips  or  gr.  peas. 

Fried  cauliflower,  Chateau  pot.,  Choron  sa. 
Clamart,    On    pot.    Macaire    gar.    gr.    peas,    Clamart   thi, 

gravy. 
Cocotte,  Small  earthen  saucepan  (individual),  same  gar, 

as  for  Casserole,  in  small  shape. 
Colbert,   On  chicken  croq.   Colbert  sa.  w.   taragon,   gar. 

w.  small  fried  egg  in  oil,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Coligny,   On   sweet   pot.   cake,   Provengale   sa.,   gar.   Bri- 

gnoles  plum. 
Comtesse,  Gar.  w.  Duchesse  pot.,  bouquet  of  asp.  tips, 

truf.  sa. 
Conde,     Gar.    small   timbal   of   ch.,   game   croq.,     cock's 

combs  and  kidneys,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Combination,   Filet  gar.  w.   divers  gar.,   pot.   and  vege., 

according  to  meat.   (Mixed  Grill). 
Conti,  On  lentils,  pu.  or  in  crustade,  mad.   sa. 
Coroza,  Gar.   w.  bottom  art.  fil.  w.  marrow,  pot.   Bene- 
dictine, Bordelaise  sa. 
Creole,  Gar.  w.  risotto,  Creole,  stuf.  gre.  and  sweet  pep- 
pers, tom.  sa.  or  Creole  sa. 

—  191  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Cussy,   On  bottom  art.   fil.  w.  chestnut  pu.  or  mu.   pu., 

sliced  truf.  on  top,  gar.  cock's  kidneys,  mad.  sa. 
Dauphine,   Gar.   w.  Dauphine  pot.,  ch.  livers,  mu.,  mar- 
row fritters,  mad.  sa. 
Delagrange,    Gar.    w.    carrots   and    turnips   glazed,     gre. 

peas,  fried  celery,  demi-glace  sa. 
De   Lesseps,  Fried   calf's  brain   on  top     gar.   timbal  of 

risotto  w.  sweet  pep.  and  safron,  stuf.  torn.,  mad.  sa. 

w.  torn. 
Deiphine,     Gar.   macaroni   thi.   w.   game   pu.     and   truf., 

marrow  on  top,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Desaugiers,  Stuf.  w.  onion  pu.  w.  ch.,  dec.  w.  a  lyre  made 

of  olives,  Provengale  sa. 
Desgranges,  Gar.  w.  carrots  glazed,  fried  cucumbers,  fla- 
geolet beans,  mad.  sa. 
Descartes,   Gar.    boneless   quail   stuf.   w.   truf.,   mad.    sa. 

w.  fumet. 
Detillier,   Gov.  w.  mad.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  gherkins. 
Deutsch  (a  la),  Sliced  filet  saute  w.  shallots,  gr.  pepper, 

veai,  kidney,  pot  saute,  demi-glace  sa. 
Dijonnaise,    Gar.    w.    tongue    quen.,      nonette    shape    on 

top.  Chateau  pot.,  Bordelaise  sa. 
D'Orleans,  Gar.  ch.  quen.  and  game  quen.,  cock's  combs, 
fried  Viileroy,  truf.,  D'Orleans  sa. 
D'Orsay,  Gov.  Foyot  sa.  gar.  Parisienne  pot. 
Dubarry,    Gar.    w.   art.    bottom    fil.    w.    cauliflower,    cov. 

Mornay  sa.  glazed,  mad.  sa. 
Dubouzet,  Gar.  w.  braised  lettuce  and  stuf.  pot.,  mad.  sa, 
Duchesse,  Gar.  w.Duchesse  pot.  asp.  tips,  mad.   sa. 
Duglere,  Gar.  Parisienne  pot.,  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter  w. 

shredded  water-cress. 
Dumas,  On  Duchesse  pot.  border,  sliced  saute  w.  mad. 

sa.,   star  made  w.   tongue  and  ham  on  top. 
Duvernoy,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  lettuce,  stuf.  cucumber,  mad.  sa. 
Egyptienne,   Stuf.  w.   Duxelles,   circle  in  truf.,   gre.   and 

sweet  peppers  on  top.  Chasseur  sa.  around. 
Espagnole,    Gar.    of    bouquet     gre.    and    sv*'eet    peppers, 

pounded  tom.,  fried  Spanish  onions,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Estragon,  Star  made  w.  scalded  taragon  leaves  on  top, 

demi-glace  w.   taragon,   Parisienne  pot. 

—  192  — 


BEEF— MIGNON  AND  DECORATIVES 

Evrett,     In    cocotte   individual,    gar.      w.    mu.     stachys. 

Deviled  cock's  kidneys  on  top,  Bordelaise  sa. 
Farcis,  All  filet  stuffed  on  top  or  inside,  gar.  and  sa. 

according  to  article. 
Favorite,  Gar.  w.  slice  foi-g.  on  top  and  truf.,  bouquet 

of  asp.  tips,  Parisienne  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Favart,  Gar.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  asp.  tips,  mar- 
row fritters,  demi-glace  w.  port  wine  sa. 
Fermiere  (Farmer  style).  Large  gar.  w.  vege.  in  bouquet, 

braised   onions  and  cabbage,   slice   of   salt  pork,   thi. 

gravy. 
Fervaai,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  cut  in  four,  Duchesse  pot. 

w.  chopped  ham.,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Financiere,  Gar.  vr.  mu.  truf.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 

ch.  quen.,  olives,  Financiere  sa. 
Flamande,  Gar.  w.  carrots,  turnips,  cabbage,  salt  pork, 

sausage,  thi.  gravy. 
Fleurette,  Pickled  w.  sherry  wine,  saute,  moistened  w. 

ere.  chives. 
Florentine,    On   subrics  spinach   gar.   w.   semolina  croq. 

demi-glace  tom. 
Forestiere,  Gar.  w.  cepes,  naorils,  salt  pork,  pot.  in  dices, 

thi.  gravy. 
Fourre,  Stuf.  inside  w.  divers  salpicon,  divers  gar.  and 

sa. 
Franklin,    Gar.   w.    stuf.    onions    and   tom,   w.    Duxelles, 

Chateau  pot.,  truf.  sa.  w.  mad. 
Frascati,      Gar.   foi-g.    saute,    asp.    tips,      Duchesse   pot. 

crescent  shape,  mad.  sa. 
Fulton,   In   individual   cocotte   or   crustade   boat   shape, 

gar.   w.   olives   and   steamed   potatoes,   meat  juice   w. 

taragon. 
Gabriel le,  On  flat  ch.  croq.  round,   gar.  w.  braised  let- 
tuce,   on   top    circle    of   truf.    and   marrow,   in   center 

very  small  ch.  croq.  pear  shape,  mad.  sa. 
Gastronome,  Stuf.  w.  truf.  gar.  w.  foi-g.,  saute  mu.  truf., 

chestnuts.   Gastronome  pot.   demi-glace  w.  xeres. 
Germaine,  Gar.  w.  very  small  pancake  stuf.  w.  Duxelles, 

mad.  sa. 
GIralda,  Stuf.  w.  Duxelles  w.  pounded  tom.  and  garlic, 

Italienne  sa. 

—  193  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Givry,  Gar.   bottom   art.   in   four,   Bataille   pot.,   French 

fried  onions,  fried  parsley,  deviled  sa. 
Godard,  Gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  mu.  head,  truf.,  sweetb.,  cock's 

combs  and  kidneys,  Godard  sa.,   dec.   large   ch.   quen. 
Goncourt,  Gar.  w.     baked  thi.   slice  tom.  w,  fine-herbs, 

Magenta  sa. 
Goulash,    See   "Miscellaneous    Applications." 
Grenadin    (See   terms  of  different  cuts).   Gar.   optional. 
Grosbois,  Gar.  w.   crus.  fil.  w.  mixed  vege.,   cauliflower 

saute,  mad.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  truf. 
Guillot,  Saute,  moisten  meat  juice  and  chopped  taragon, 

gar.  Faille  pot. 
Halevy,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.  pounded  tom.,  saute,  mad.  sa. 

w.  tom. 
Hauser,  Gar.  w.  French  fried  onions,  jul.,  pot.,   Colbert 

sa. 
Havanaise,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  gre.  and  sweet  pep.  w.  Creole 

rice,  Havanaise  sa. 
H elder,    Stuf.    w,    thi.    tom.    pu.,    sprinkled    w.    chopped 

white  egg  on  top,  Bordelaise  sa. 
Helvetia,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  torn.,  half  onion  pu.,  half  spinach 

pu.,  mad.  sa, 
Hendrick,  Slice  of  filet  saute  w.  sliced  veal,  kidney  and 

ch.  livers,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Henri  IV,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art,  fil.  w.  hazelnut  pot,  leaves 

around,  made  thi.   Bearnaise   sa.   on  top  or  sa.   sepa- 
rately. 
Hongroise,   Gar.   w.    timbale   of   cauliflower   w.   paprika, 

cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed,  Hongroise  sa. 
Hussarde,  Gar.  stuf.  tom.  fil.  w.  onions,  pu.  and  horse- 
radish, stuf.  mu.  Duchesse  pot.,  Hussarde  sa. 
Imperatrice,    Stuf.   inside    w.    marrow    salpicon    w,    truf. 

and    foi-g.    breaded,    broiled,      crown      pot.    soufflees. 

Truf.  sa.  separately. 
Imperial,  Gar.  w.  fried  cock's  kidneys  Villeroy,  asp,  tips, 

cro^vn  of  truf.  on  top,  Foyot  sa. 
Impromptu,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  cov.  w.  fo-meat,  sprinkled  , 

w.  truf.,  celery  sa.  w.  onion  pu.  f 

Italienne,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  braised  or  saute,  spaghetti 

or  tagliarini,  thi.  butter  and   cheese,  Italienne  sa. 

—  194  — 


BEEF— MIGNON  AND  DECORATIVES 

Jacquart,  Gar.  w.  chestnuts,  stuf.  olives,  bottom  art.  in 

four,  dec.  round  game  quen.,  mad.  sa. 
Janin,  Jules,  In  Duchesse  pot.  border,  sliced  tenderloin 

saute  cov.  Creole  sa. 
Japonaise,  On  round  pot.   croq.,   gar.   w.   stachys   saute, 

thi.  gravy  w.  tom. 
Jardiniere,  Gar.  w.  divers  fancy  vege.  in  bouquet  around 

demi-glace  sa. 
Jeannette,  Coeur  de,  Stuf.  w.  foi-g.  pu.  cov.  fo-meat,  dec. 

w.   sweet   pep.,   heart   shape,   truf.    sa.    gar.   w.    crown 

soufflee  pot.  heart  shape. 
Judic,   On   sliced   round   ham,   gar.     w.   braised   lettuce, 

cock's  kidneys  and  slice  truf.   on  top,  thi.   gravy. 
Jussienne,   Gar.   w.   braised   lettuce,   glazed  onion,     thi. 

gravy. 
Kleber,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  fil.  w.  foi-g.  pu.,  truf.  sa. 
Kursaal,  Gar.  w.  border  on  cat's  tongue,  without  sugar, 

in  cornucopia  shape,  fil.  w.  fancy  mixed  vege.,  mad  sa. 
Lakme,  On  lima  beans  pu.,  broiled  mu.,  slice  of  tongue 

and  foi-g.  on  top,  mad  sa.  w.  jul.  of  tongue  and  truf. 
Languedocienne,  Gar.  w.  egg-plant,  cepes,  pounded  tom. 

saute  w.   garlic,   Provengale   sa. 
La pe rouse,   Gar.   w.   marrow   fritters,   Chateau  pot.,   La- 

perouse  sa. 
Legion    d'Honneur    (Legion    of    honor).      Gar.    w.    cross 

made  of  vege.,  gre.  peas,  mad.  sa.  w.  ham. 
Lead iguie res,  Gar.  w.  onions  fiL  w.  spinach,  cov.  Mornay 

sa.  glazed,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Levasseur,  Gar.  w.   cepes  saute,  tom.   sa.  w.   fi-herbs. 
Liencourt,   Gar.   w.   stuf.   tom.   and   mu.   fil.   w.   Duxelle, 

Chateau  sa. 
Lily,  On  Anna  pot.  gar.  w.  bottom  art.  fil.  w.  foi-g.  pu., 

slice  truf.  on  top,  truf.   sa. 
London  House,  Stuf.  w.  foi-g.  salpicon  w.  truf.,  gar.  w. 
head  mu.,  whole  truf.,  mad.   sa. 
Lorette,  Gar.  w.  Lorette  pot.,  asp.  tips,  gre.  peas,  sliced 

truf.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Louise,  Gar.   w   .stuf.   tom,   and   mu.   w.   Duxelles,   Pan- 

sienne  pot.  and  Parisienne  sa. 
Louisiane,  Gar.  w.  sweet  pot,  gre.  corn,  fried  bananas, 

rice  w.  gre.  and  sweet  peppers,  gravy. 

—  195  — 


G  ANGEL'S      GULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Louis   XIV,   Gar.   w.   bottom   art.   fil.   w.   sliced  mu.  and 

truf.,  thi.  all  sa.  on  top,  truf.  sa.  around. 
Louis  XV,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  Dubarry,  stuf.  torn.,  fried 
,  cock's  kidneys,  marrow  fritters,  Parisienne  sa.  w.  truf, 
Louis   XVI,   Gar.   bottom   art.   fil.   w.   four  different  pu. 

tom.,  onions,   gre.   peas  and  truf.,   thin  Bearnaise  sa. 

around,  little  rose  made  w.  Duchesse  pot. 
Lucullus,  Gar.  w.  bouquet  of  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 

foi-g.  croq.  breaded  w.  chopped  truf.,  Lucullus  sa. 
Lyonnaise,  Gar,  whole  chestnuts,  braised,  Lj^onnaise  sa. 
Macedoine,   All   beef  meat   gar.   w.   fancy  mixed   vege., 

divers  sa. 
Madere,  Gar.  facultative,  thi.  w.  mad.  sa.  or  sa.  only. 
Madeleine,   Gar.   w.   small   bottom  art.   fil.  w.   onion  pu. 

and  timbal  of  white  beans  pu.  demi-glace,  sa. 
Magny,    Gar.    w.    sliced   foi-g.    on   top,    cov.    Mornay    sa. 

glazed,  mad.  sa.  around. 
Mai  re    (Filet),  All  tenderloin  gar.  w.   Maire  pot.,  demi- 
glace  sa. 
Maitre   d'Hotel,     Gar.   Maitre   d'Hotel   pot.     or     Maitre 

d'Hctel  butter. 
Majordome,  On  lentils  pu.,  poivrade  sa.  around. 
Manor),  On   slice  of  foi-g.   gar.  w.   cock's  kidneys,  fried 

Villeroy,   Olivette  pot.,  truf.   sa. 
MaraTchere,   Gar.   w.   oyst-er-plant,     thi.     ere.,     Brussels 

sprouts  saute,  rissole  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Marc   Aurele,   Gar.   w.    braised   sweetbreads,    ch.    quen., 

truf.  sa. 
Marechaie,   Gar.   w.   crus.   fil.   w.   cock's   combs,  kidneys 

and  truf.  thi.  w.  All.  sa.,  bouquet  of  asp.  tips  between 

Mad.  sa. 
Marie-Antoinette,   Gar.   w.   asp.  tips,   bottom  art.   cut  in 

four,  saute,  mu.,  gre.  peas,  hazelnut  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Marie-Jeanne,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  fil.  w.  fresh  peas  pu., 

hazelnut  pot.,  Colbert  sa.  w.  mint. 
Marie-Louise,   Gar.   w.   bottom   art.   fil.   w.  mu.   pu.   and 

onions.  Chateau  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Marietta,  Gar.  w.  crus.  fil.  w.  noodles,  head  mu.,  cock's 

combs,  mad.  sa.  w.  jul.  of  pistachio. 
Marigny,  Gar.  w.  crus.  fil.  w.  chicory,  braised  lettuce, 

fondante  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 

—  196  — 


BEEF— MIGNON   AND    DECORATIVES 

Marine,  All  pickled  meats    (See  "Brine"),  gar.   and  sa. 

according  to  article. 
Ts/larion    Delorme,   Bottom   art.    fil.    w.    mu.   pu.,   dec.   w. 

tnif.,   meat  on   sliced  foi-g.,  art.   on   top,   truf.   sa.   w. 

small  ch.  quen.  around. 
Marquise,  On  pot.   Marquise,  gar.  \v.  small  crus.  fil.  w. 

spinal  marrow  w.  truf.,  thi.  Supreme  sa.,  thi.  gravy. 
Marseillaise,  Stuf.  w.  shredded  onions,  torn,  garlic  and 

fi-herbs,  thi.  all  sa.,  Provengale  sa.  around  or  gar,  w. 

small   baked   torn.   w.    garlic,    stuf.    olives    on   top    w. 

anchovy   circle,   Copeaux   pot.   between  tom.,   Proven- 
gale  sa. 
Mascagni,    Stuf.    w.    calf's   brains   pu.    cov.   w.   tom.    pu., 

sprinkled  w.  broken  Faille  pot.,  mad.   sa.  w.  tom. 
Mascotte,  In  individual  cocotte  gar.  around  w.  bottom  of 

art.   cut  in  dices  saute,  truf.  balls,  Olivette  pot,  thi. 

gravy. 
Massena,  Gar.  w   .  bottom  art.   fil.  Bearnaise  sa.,  slice 

marrow  on  top,  tom.  sa.  around. 
Martin,  J.  B.,  Slice  of  tenderloin,  saute  w.  slice  mu.,  gre. 

and  sweet  peppers,  shallots,  meat-glace,  fi-herbs. 
Matignon  (See  "Matignon  Mirepoix"),  Gar.  w.  Matignon, 

add  Jul.  of  celery,  mu.  and  truf.,  Colbert  sa.  Jul.  pot. 
Mayaguez,   Cov.   w.   sliced  mu.,  gre.  and  sweet  peppers 

saute,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom.  w.  tabasco  around. 
Mazarin,  Gar.  w.  pot.  shape  wooden  shoe,  fil.  w.  fancy 

mixed  vege.,  mad.  sa.  w.th  tom. 
Medicis,    Gar.   w.   three   different   crus.      fil.    gre.   peas, 

pearls  of  carrot  and  sorrel  pu.,  truf.  sa. 
Melba,   Gar.   w.    braised   lettuce,    stuf!    tom.    demi-glace 

sa..  with  port  wine. 
Melinet,   Gar.   w.    crus.   fil.w   .    fancy  mixed  vege.,   ring 

of  tongue  and  heads  of  mu.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Menagere,    Home    style,    in    casserole    or    earthen    dish. 

See  "Fermiere,"  gar.  and  sa.  facultaive. 
Mephisto,  Broiled  on  broiled  sweet  pot.,  deviled  sliced 

ham  on  top,  gar.  w.  deviled  pot.  croq.,  deviled  sa. 
Mericourt,   Gar.   w.   fried   calf's   brains,   ch.   liver   saute, 

Colbert  sa. 

—  197  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mexicain,  Broiled  Mexican  pimentos  and  ham,  gar.  w. 

frijoles,  Mexicain  sa.  or  jul.  of  pimentos,  onions,  tom. 

w.  tobasco  sa.,   gar.  w.   gre.  corn  cut  off,   saute. 
Meyerbeer,  Gar.  w.  broiled  kidney,  risotto  w.  truf.,  truf. 

sa. 
Mignon,   Gar.  w.   bottom  of  art.  fil.   w.   gre.  peas,   dec. 

round  ch.   quen.  w.  truf..  Chateau  sa.    (Also  term  of 

small  filet). 
Mikado,   On    broiled   tom.   gar.    stachy's    tom.    sa. 
Milanaise,      Gar.    w.    spaghetti   Milanaise    w,    jul.    ham, 

tongue,  mu.  and  truf.,  thi.  cheese  and  tom.  pu.,  tom. 

sa.  around. 
Minute,  Slice,  saute  minute  w.  shallots  and  fi-her,,  pot. 

sa.  optional. 
Mirabeau,     Checkered     w.   anchovies   on   top,     gar.   w. 

olives,  mad.  sa.  w.  anchovies  and  taragon. 
Mireille,  Gar.  w.  timbale  of  risotto  w.  saffron,  emptied 

timbale  made  w.  Duchesse  pot.  fil.  w.  pounded  torn, 

thin  torn.  sa. 
Mirette,  On  pot.  Mirette.     Chateau  sa. 
Moderne,   Gar.    w.   mould    surrounded   w.   spaghetti,   ch. 

fo-meat  around,   fil.   chestnuts  pu.,   dec.  ch.   quen,   on 

top,  mad.  sa.  or  mould,  fil.  w.  fancy  vege.  in  chartreuse 

w.   sliced  truf.   in   bottom,   braised   lettuce,     dec.   ch. 

quen.,  thi.  gravy. 
Moelle,     Sliced  marrow  in     dices  w.     Chateau   sa.     or 

poached  plain. 
Moissonneuse,     Gar.   w.   gr.   peas   country     style,     pot. 

stewed  w.   salt  pork,  thi.  gra\T. 
Moldave,  Gar.  w.   calf's  feet  croq.,  pounded  tom.,  mad. 

sauce. 
Monaco,   Gar.   on  top,  round   slice  of  ham,  fried   sliced 

calf's  brain,  one  broiled  mu.,  mad.  sa.  w.  jul.  of  mu. 

and  truf. 
Monegasque,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  bottom  of  art.,  stuf.  tom.  w. 

duxelles.  Olivette  pot.,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 

Montaigne,  Breaded,  broiled,  gar.  Paille  pot,  horse- 
radish sa. 

Montana,  Gar.  w.  small  buckwheat  cakes  around, 
Bearnaise  sa. 

—  198  — 


BEEF— MIGNON  AND   DECORATIVES' 

Montbazon,     Gar.     w.    studded  sweetbreads,   truf.,   dec. 

quen.,  head  of  mu.,  truf.,  Parisienne  sa. 
Montcalm,  Gar.  w.  timbale  of  cauliflower,  braised  celery, 

mad.  sa. 
Montebello,  Gar.  w.  bottom  art.  fil.  w.  cb.  salpicon,  coy. 

fo-meat,   sprinkled  w.  chopped  tongue,  Montebello  sa. 
Monte  Carlo,   Stuf.  w.  Provengale  cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  w. 

four  aces,  truf.  and  sweet  peppers,  Gourmet  sa. 
Monticello,   Gar.   w.    stuf.    gre.   pep.,     Bordelaise   sa.   w. 

taragon. 
Montglas,  Gar.  w.  foi-g.  and  truf.  cut  in  dices,  mad.  sa. 

or  mad.  w,  jul.  of  truf.,  mu,,  tongue  and  ch. 
Montgomery,   Gar.   w.   subric   of   spinach      (pancake   w. 

spinach)  crown,  w.  onion  pu.  on  top  and  slice  of  truf., 

mad.  sa. 
Montmorency,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  fancy  mixed 

vege.  on  top,  bouquet  asp.  tips,  mad.  sa. 
Montmort,  In  crust  made  w.  bun  paste  fil.  w.  foi-g.  pu. 

and  truf.  in  dices,  slice  of  truf.  on  top.  Chateau  sa. 

w.  foi-g. 
Montpensier,  In  crust  fil.  asp.  tips  w.  jul.  of  truf.,  slices 

of  truf.  on  top,  demi-glace  sa. 
Morilles    (Morils),    A    kind    of    wild   mushroom,    saute, 

mad.  sa. 
Mozart,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.   fil.   w.  celery  pu.,  head 

mu.,  rissole  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Napolitaine,  Gar.  w.  mould  surrounded  w.  macaroni  fil. 

w.   Napolitaine     macaroni,   thi.    tom.      sa.   demi-glace, 

tom.  sauce  around. 
Navet,  au.  Turnips  olive  shape  and  small  onions  glazed, 

demi-glace. 
Nemrod,  Gar.  w.  dec,  game  quen.,  mad.  sa.  w.  essence 

of  game  and  sliced  truf. 
Nigoise,     Gar,   w.   pounded  tom,  w.  garlic,     bouquet  of 

string  beans,  alternate  w.  Olivette  pot.,  thi.  gravy  w. 

tom. 
Nicolas  11,  In  casserole  w.  slice  of  foi-g-  and  whole  truf. 

around,  Lucullus  sa. 
Ninon,  On  Mirette  pot.  gar.  w.  small  patties  fil,  w.  asp. 

tips  and  truf.,  mad.  sa. 

—  199  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Niortaise,  Gar.  w.   stuf.  onions  w.  Duxelles,   smothered 

sliced  oyster-plant,  Chateau  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Nivernaise,  Gar.  w.  small  French  carrots  glazed,  Niver- 

naise   sa.  or  thi.   gravy  gar.   onlj'  w.   carrots. 
Noailles,   Stuf.   w.  foi-g.   salpicon  w.   truf.,   cov.   fo-meat 

dec.    on    top,    gar.    w.    bouquet   of    cock's    combs    and 

kidneys,  mad.  sa. 
Nonette,  Large  tongue  quen.  nonette  shape  on  top.  gar. 

w.  Chateau  pot.,  Bordelaise  sa. 
Nouilles    (Noodles),      Gar.    w.    noodles    w.    butter     and 

cheese,  thi.  gravy. 
Orientale,   Gar.  w.   crust  fil.  w.   okra,   sweet  pot.   croq., 

gre.  and  sweet  stuf.  pep.  w.  risotto  Greek  style,  mad. 

sa.  w.  torn. 
Orleanais,  Gar.   w.   stuf.   braised  lettuce,   fondante  pot., 

mad.  sa. 
Orloff,  Checkered  on  top     w.  filet  of  anchovies    fil.  w. 

pearls  of  onions  pu.  in  each  square,  gar.  w.  bouquet 

of  string  beans,  jul.  of  sweet  pep.,  mad.  sa. 
Opera,  Gar.  w.  small  crust  fil.  chi.  livers  and  crust  fil. 

asp.  tips,  thi.  gravy. 
Oxalis,   Gar.   w.    stuf.     oxalis   w.    ch.   salpicon   w.   ham, 

tom.  sa. 
Pacha,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  gre.  and  sweet  pep.  w.  timbale  of 

risotto    w.    curry,    mad.    sa.    w.    chopped    tongue    and 

pistachio. 
Paladin,  Gar.  w.  small  glazed  onions  and  carrots,  fried 

apples  and  salt  pork,  thi.  gravy. 
Pail  lard,  Sliced  foi-g.  on  top  cov.  mad.  sa.  w.  jul.  truf., 

mu.,  Parisienne  pot.  around. 
Panaches,   Mixed   string   beans   and   flageolet   beans   or 

green  peas;    also  succotash,  according  to  vege. 
Parisienne,   Gar.   w.   bottom   of   art.   fil.   w.   tongue   sal- 
picon glazed,  Parisienne  pot.,  Parisienne  sa. 
Parmentier,  Gar.  w.  pot.  cut  in  cube,  or  fancy,  cooked 

butter. 
Paysanne    (Country  style),     Gar.  w.     smothered   sliced 

vege.,  salt  pork,   small  pot.,  thi.   gravy. 
Perigourdine      (Perigord,    Perigueux,     French   province 

noted    for   its   truffles).     All    preparations    containing 

only  truffles — every  style. 

—  200  — 


BEEF— MIGNON   AND   DECORATIVES 

Pelerin  (Pilgrim),  Gar.  w.  Jerusalem  art.,  thi,  ere.,  crust 
fil.  w.  marrow,  pounded  tom.,  thi.  gravy. 

Persane,  On  %  broiled  tom.  gar.  w.  stuf.  pep.  w.  risotto, 
fried  banana  on  top,  thi.  gravy. 

Peruvienne,  Gar.  V7.  oxalis  saute  w.  ham  in  oil,  tom.  sa. 

Petit  Due,  Gar.  vr.  crust  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.,  sliced  truf.  on 
top,  bouquet  of  asp.  tips  between,  thi.  gravy. 

Pietnontaise,  Gar.  w.  timbale  of  risotto  Piemontaise  sa. 

Pique,  Larded,   gar.   and  sa.   according  to   style. 

Pompadour,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  gre.  peas, 
Choron  sa.  w.  truf. 

Portugaise,  Gar.  stuf.  tom.  w.  duxelles.  Chateau  pot., 
Portugaise  sa. 

Primeurs,  Gar.  w.  early  vege.  in  bouquet,  thi.  gravyq 

Princesse,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  half  pounded  tom. 
and  half  green  peas  pu.  separated,  bouquet  of  asp. 
tips,  thi.  ere.,  sliced  truf.  on  top,  thin  Gourmet  sa. 

Printanier,  Gar.  w.  young  spring  vege.  in  bouquet,  thi. 
gravy. 

Provencale,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.  and  small  torn.  w.  duxelle, 
Provengale  sa.  "'^^')  •' 

Providence,  Gar.  w.  dice  of  foi-g.  saute  mu.  truf.,  olives, 
ch.  quen.,  mad.  sa. 

Puree,  Gar.  w.  any  puree  of  vege.  according  to  article, 
thi.  gravy. 

Rachel,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  filled  w.  sliced  poa.  mar- 
row, cov.  Bordelaise  sa. 

Racines  (Roots),  Vegetables  cut  in  jul.  smothered  sepa- 
rately, carrots,  turnips,  celery,  braised  onions,  be- 
tween thi.  gravy. 

Ravioli,  A  sort  of  noodle  paste  w.  forcemeat  gar.  w. 
raviolis,   thi.   gravy. 

Regence,  Gar.  w.  slices  of  foi-g.,  dec.  ch.  quen.  w.  truf., 
small  flat  pot.  Duchess€  w.  chopped  truf,,  cock's 
combs,  mu.,  truf.,  demi-glace  sa. 

Regina,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  tom.  fil.  w.  risotto  Milanaise,  mad. 
sa.  w.  sweet  and  gre.  pep.  cut  in  dice,  mu.  gherkins. 

Remusat,  Gar.  w.  pounded  tom.  saute  in  small  scallop 

shells.  Chateau  pot.,  mad.  sa.,  sliced  mu.  and  truf. 

Renaissance,   Gar.   w.   bouquet  of  new  vege.   separated, 

thi.  gravy,  or  art.  bottom  fil.  w.  small  fancy  vege. 

—  201  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Reyniere,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  olives  w.   ch.   fo-meat,     braised 

chestnuts,  chipolata  sausages,  mad.  sa. 
Riche,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.,  bottom  w.  gre.  peas  pu., 

bouquet  of  asp.  tips  and  string  beans,  hazelnut  pot., 

Choron  sa.  w.  truf. 
Richelieu,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  tom  and  mu.  w.  duxelles,  braised 

lettuce,  Chateau  po.,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Risotto,  Gar,  w.  risotto,  divers  style,  according  to  art. 
Ristorl,  Gar.  "W.  crust  fil.  w,  mixed  fancy  vege.,   cover 

made  w.  game  quen.,  round  of  truf.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 

w.  sliced  mu.  and  truf. 
RIvoll,  Gar.   w.   game  quen.   sprinkled   w.   tongue,   slice 

of  sweetbread,  mu.  head.,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Robiquet,  Gar.  w.  ch.  livers,  mu.  and  olives,  Chasseur  sa. 
Rohan,  Gar.  w.  slice  of  foi-g.  crust  fil.  w.  cock's  combs 

and  kidneys,  thi.  All.  sa.,  sliced  truf.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Romaine,  Gar.  w.  gnokis  gratin,  timbal  of  spinach  cus- 
tard w.  anchovies  and  subric  of  spinach,  romaine  sa. 

w.  tom. 
Rossini,  Gar.  w.  sliced  foi-g.  saute,  one  under  and  one 

over,  truf.  sa. 
Rothschild,  Gar.  w.  boneless  reed  birds,  stuf.  w.  foi-g., 

truf.,  mu.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys  in  bouquet,  large 

dec.  ch.  quen.  demi-glace  w.  champagne. 
Rougemont,   Border   of  Duchesse   pot.   in  tower   shape, 

carrots   between,    gre.    peas    on   top,    baked,   meat   in 

center,  cov.  mad.  sa.  w.  mu.  and  truf. 
Roumanil,  Gar.  on  top  %   broiled  tom.  cov.  w.  Mornay 

sa.  w.  torn,  glazed,  gar.  around  w.   stuf.  olives,  fried 

egg-plant,  circle  of  anchovies  on  top,  thi.  gravy. 
Roussel,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  ch.  salpicon  cov. 

fo-meat,  dec.  and  stuf.  olives,  mad.  sa.   w.  tom. 
Royer,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.,  truf.  sa. 
Russe,  "Russian"  filet,  Bitok  style  w.  fried  egg  on  top, 

raifort  sa. 
Saint-Dldier,  Gar.  w.  pounded  tom.  saute,  fi-herbs,  Ma- 
genta sa. 
St.  Florentin,  Gar.  w.  Duchesse  pot.  w.  chopped  tongue, 

pot.  croq.  breaded  on  pounded  fine  vermicelli,  cepes 

saut§  Bordelaise  style,  Colbert  sa. 

—  202  — 


BEEF— MIGNON   AND   DEC0RATIVE9 

St.  Germain,  Gar.  w.  carrots  glazed,  pot.  fondante,  crust 
fil.  gre.  peas  pu.,  thi.  Bearnaise  sa.  on  top,  gravy. 

St.  Laurent,  Gar.  on  top  V2  broiled  torn,  on  large  mu., 
crown  of  pot.  souffle,  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter. 

St.  Mande,  On  pot.  Macalre,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  gre.  peas, 
thi.  gravy. 

St.  Martin,  S'tuf.  w.  duxelles  gar.  ch.  liver,  boiled  pot., 
thi,  gravy. 

St.  Vallier,  Gar.  w,  stuf.  torn,  and  mu.,  Chateau  pot., 
Colbert  sa.  w.  taragon. 

Sabinoise,  Stuf,  w,  ch,  livers  salpicon,  thi,  Rouennaise 
sa.,    poivrade  sa,  around, 

Salisbury,  Filet  scraped,  not  seasoned,  broiled,  for  in- 
valids. 

Sarah  Bernhardt,  Cov.  w.  Bearnaise  sa,  w.  Vert  butter, 
slice  of  truf.  on  top,  gar,  w,  Sarah  pot. 

Sarde,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  cucumbers  and  torn.,  rice  croq.  made 
w.  risotto,  tom.  sa. 

Saxon ne.  Gar.  w.  stuf.  tom,  and  cucumbers,  demi-glace 
w.  horseradish. 

Sicilienne,  Gar.  w.  lazagnes  thi.  w.  ch.  livers  pu.,  mad. 
sa.  w.  tom. 

Sigur,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  tom,  pot.  croq.  w.  ham,  truf.  sa. 
w.  tom. 

Soubise,   Gar.   w.   onion   pu.,   mad.   sa.   or  thi.   gravy. 

Stael,  On  flat  ch.  croq.  gar.  w.  mu.f  fil.  ch.  pu.,  bouquet 
of  gre.  peas,  mad.  sa. 

Stanley,  Gar.  on  top  fried  bananas  around,  shaved  horse- 
radish in  center,  horseradish  sa.  around. 

Strasbourgeoise,  Gar.  w.  foi-g.  and  truf.  cut  in  dice, 
bouquet  of  choucroute,  chipolata  sausage,  mad.  sa. 

Surprise,  Stuf.  inside  w.  divers  salpicon,  marrow,  truf., 
foi-g.,   etc.,   gar.   and   sa.   according  to  article. 

Talleyrand,  Gar.  w.  macaroni  and  large  Jul.  of  truf.  thi. 
w.  stock  of  meat  and  dice  of  foi-g.,  mad.  sa. 

Tartare,  Chopped  filet  (See  "Americain"),  add  an- 
chovy and  Tartare  sa. 

Tavern ier.  Saute  moistened  w.  wh.  wine,  ham  cut  in 
dice,   fi-herbs   and   tarragon,   gar.   w.    Chateau   pot. 

Tivoli,  Gar.  w.  large  mu.  fil.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 
thi.  All.  sa.,  bouquet  of  asp.  tips,  mad.  sa.  w.  torn. 

—  203  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Tosca,  Stuf.  inside  marrow  w.  salpicon,  cov.  w.  onion  pu., 

torn,  on  top,  torn.  sa.  w.  mint  or  fennel. 
Toulousaine,  Gar.   w.  mu.,   truf.,  olives,     cock's     combs 

and  kidneys,   mad.   sa.,  thi.  All.   sa.,   braised   sweetb., 

ch.  quen.  -i 

Tourangelle,  Gar.   w.   flageolet  beans  and  string  beans, 

thi.  gravy. 
Tour  d'Argent,  Gar.  on  top  one  circle  of  thi.  torn,  pu., 

cauliflower  pu.  in  center  dome  shape,  slice  truf..  Chev- 
ron sa.  around. 
Tournon,  Fluted  mould  fil.  w.  mu.  pu.  and  ch.  fo-meat,^^ 

undermould  on  top,  Chateau  sa. 
T ravers,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  ch.  pu.,  crust  fiir' 
Trianon,  Gar.  around  w.  gre.  peas  pu.,  onions  pu.,  torn. 

pu.  and  Bearnaise  sa.,  Paille  pot. 
Triumvir,     Gar.   w.   dec.    ch.      quen.,   crust   fil.      sweeb., 

Bearnaise  sa. 
Turbigo,  Gar.  w.  bouquet  of  mu.,  art.  bottom  cut  in  4, 

ch.  livers,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Tyrolienne,   Gar.   w.   pounded   tom.   saute,   French   fried 

onions,  Tyrolienne  sa. 
Valancay,  On  flat  noodles  croq.  w.  ham,   gar.  w.  small 
"Financiere,"  marrow  sa. 
Vandatour,   On  art.   pu.   gar.   w.   marrow   croq.   w.   truf.. 

Parisienne  pot..  Chateau  sa. 
Vernon,  On  flat  spaghetti,  croq.  gar.  w\  braised  celery 

and  cucumbers,  port  wine  sa. 
Vert-Pre,    or    Pre-Vert,    Gar.    pot.    Paille,   water-cress   or 

Maitre-d'Hotel. 
Vichy,  Gar.  w.  carrots  smothered  Vichy  style,  thi.  gravy. 
Victor  Hugo,  Thi.  Bearnaise  sa.  w.  tom.  on  top  w.  slice 

truf.,  torn.  sa.  around. 
Victoria,  On  flat  ch.  croq.,  poa.  tom.  on  top,  Victoria  sa. 
Victorine,    Cov.    w.    celery   pu.,    circle   of    sliced    cooked 

carrots  on  top,  stuf.  mu.  in  center,  mad.  sa. 
Vigneron,   (Winegrower),  Slice  saute  w.  mu.,  salt  pork, 

shallots,   fi-herbs,   Lyonnaise   pot.   moistened  w.    wine 

and  th.  gravy. 
Villageoise,   Cooked   in   earthen   dish.     See   "Fermiere." 

—  204  — 


VEAL 

Villaret,     On  flageolet  beans  pu.,     broiled  mu.  on  top, 

Chateau  sa. 
Villefranche,  Gar.  w.  pounded  torn,  saute,  olives,  ancho- 
vies filet  on  top,  demi-glace  w.  anchovies. 
Viliemere,  On  crust  fil.  w.  onion  pu.  and  truf.,  slice  truf. 

on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Villeneuve,  On  flat  ch.  croq.,  crown  of  truf.  and  tongue 

on  top,  cock's  comb  in  center,  gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.  around, 

mad.  sa. 
Viroflay,  Gar.  w.  art.  croq.,  crust  fil.  w.  cream  spinach. 

Chateau  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 
Waldimir,   Stuf.  w.  chestnut  pu.   and  foi-g.,   cov.   w.    ch. 

fo-meat,  dec.  Colbert  sa.  w.  fennel. 
Walkyrie,  On  flat  Duchesse  pot.  w.  ham,  large  mu.  fil. 

w.  onions  pu.  on  top,  cream  sa.  w.  juniper  berries. 
Zingara,   Siuf-    inside   w.   sliced  ham,   mad.   sa.   w.   tom. 

and  Jul.   of   ham.,   tongue,   mu.   ch. 
Zimmermann,  Fried  egg  on  top  cut  round,  point  of  truf. 

on  yolk,  Bearnaise  sa.,  Parisienne  pot.  around. 

VEAL  (Veau) 

Veal  is  not  a  nourishing  food,  but  is  eaten  con- 
siderably. It  must  be  of  first  quality,  firm, 
white  and  elastic,  and  at  least  6  weeks  old.  It  is  pre- 
pared and  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  beef.  Vv^hite 
meats  must  be  very  well  cooked.  (See  terms  for  cut- 
ting of  meats.)  Also  garnitures  of  beef  and  sauces 
which  accompany  the  meats.  Time  required  to  cook 
veal  chops,  12  to  15  minutes. 

REMARKS — All  articles  to  be  braised  should  have 
the  fat  removed  and  the  latter  reduced,  straned  and 
added  to  the  sauce  and  garnishings.  Meats  to  be  stuffed 
should  be  lightly  saute  on  tbe  side  to  be  garnished, 
then  pressed,  trimmed  and  cooled  before  garnishing. 

For  time  required  to  cook,  see  note  at  head  of  "Beef." 

CHOPS,    KERNEL,   SADDLE,   SLICE,    ETC. 
COTES,    NOIX,    ESCALOPE,    NOISETTE,    ETC. 

Abbreviations:     Same  as  those  for  "Beef." 
Agnes  Sore!,  Larded  pork  and  truf.,  braised  on  mu.  pu. -> 
truf.  sa.  '' 

—  205  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Algerienne,  Gov.  Godiveau  fo-meat  w.  chopped  green  and 

sweet  pep.  gar.  w.  poa.  torn.,  sweet  pot.  croq.,  gravy. 
Ambassade,   Braised   gar.    w.    stuf.   mu.,    i/^    fried   torn., 

Soiibise  sa.  w.  triif.  and  coction. 
Anglaise,  Stuffed  English  style  w.  sage,  roast  thi.  gravy, 

lemon  sa.   etc.,  boiled  pot.  or  breaded  English  style, 

fried  in  butter,  divers  gar. 
Anversoise,  Slice  stuf.  w.  panade  w.  cream  rolled   and 

braised,  gar.  w.  hop  shoots,  boiled  pot.,  thi.  gravy. 


Basilic,  Broiled  or  saute  w.  basil  herb  butter  and  meat 

glace. 
Behague,  Gar.  w.  braised  celery,  fried  cucumbers,  mad. 

sa.  w.  torn. 
Bellecourt,    Gar.    w.    pu.    of    chestnuts,    flageolet    beans 

Bretonne  style,  with  reduced  stock. 
Blanquette,   Stew   in   blanquette   sa.   gar.   w.   mu.,   small 

onions. 


—  206 


VEAL 

Bellevue,  Braised  when  cold  mould,  dec.  w.  fancy  cooked 

vege.  surrounded  w.  jelly,  divers  gar.  or  salad. 
Bonne    Femme,   Cooked   in   earthen   dish,   small   onions 

and  pot.,  baked. 
Bordelaise,   Stuf.    w.    duxelle   w.    fi-herbs,   breaded   Eng^ 

lish  style,  gar.  w.  cepes  saute,  Bordelaise  sa. 
Bouchere,  Do  not  trim  chops,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative, 

braised,  broiled,  saute,  etc. 
Bourguignotte,  Braised  w.wine  gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.,  Boiir- 

guignotte  sa. 
Briarde,     Gar.   w.   braised   stuf.     lettuce,   crust     fil.   w. 

creamed  carrots,  mad.   sa. 
Byzantine,  On   cauliflower  pu.   gar.   w.   braised  lettuce, 

egg-plant  saute,  thi.  gravy. 
Caisse,  Kernel,  braised  empty,  fil,  w.  divers  gar.  and  sa., 

case  shape,  according  to  the  name. 
Casserole  or  Cocotte   (Earthen  pan),  cooked  w.  butter, 

gar.  optional,  according  to  the  name. 
Caucasienne,   Slice   rolled   w.   anchovies,   fi-her.   braised 

on  tom.  pu. 
Catalane,  Saute.  (See  "Beef  Catalane"),  Cut  tomatoes  in 

4,  add  onions  and  garlic. 
Chanzy,   Duchesse   pot.   border   cooked  veal,   slice,   cov. 

Mornay  sa.,  baked. 
Chartreuse,  In  dec.  mould  w.  fancy  vege.  surrounded  w. 

fo-meat,   according  to  article,  thi.  gravy. 
Chasseur,  Broiled  or  saute,  Chasseur  sa. 
Chatham,     Gar.  w.  noodles,  saute,  sliced     tom.     saut6, 

Soubise  sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 
Choisy,     Gar.   w.   braised   lettuce,     timbale   of   chicory. 

Chateau  pot.,  mad.  sa. 
Combination,   Veal,  vege.  and  egg  gar.  facultatlive. 
Cotes,  Broiled,  saute,  gar.  w.  divers  gar.  vege.  or  pot. 

and   sa.   according  to   article.    (For  complement.   See 

"Beef"  or  "Lamb."). 

Custine,  Stuf.  w.  duxelle  w.  truf.  breaded  English  style, 

tom.  sa. 
Dampierre,   Saute  on  puree  of  split  peas,  Hussarde  sa. 
Dandolo,  Saute  gar.  w.  pot.  in  cubes,  veal  kidneys,  mu., 

glazed  onions,  all  mixed,  thi.  gravy. 

—  207  — 


G  ANGEL'S      GULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Dantzig,  Saute  w,  caraway  seed,  moistened  w.  gravy, 
gar.  w.  boiled   round  pot. 

Dauphine,  Stuf.  w.  salpicon,  breaded  English  style,  fried 
in  butter,  gar.   Dauphine   pot.,  mad.   sa. 

Desaix,  Stuf.  w.  duxelle,  cov.  veal  forcemeat,  gar.  w. 
mixed  fancy  vege.,  pot.  croq.,  Ravigote  sa. 

Dreux,  Studded  w.  truf.  and  tongue,  braised,  gar.  Finan- 
ciere.     See   "Financiers"). 

Ecossaise,  Gar.  w.  vege.  in  bouquet,  to  alternate,  green 
peas  and  cut  string  beans,  thi.  gravy. 

Escalope,  Thick  slice,  saute,  broiled,  breaded,  gar.  facul- 
tative. 


Escallops   (Divers) 

Fermiere,  Braised,  saute,  gar.  w.  smothered  sliced  vege., 
thi.  gravy. 

Filet,  Tenderloin,  whole,  larded,  braised  or  roast,  broiled, 
saute,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 

Financiere,  Braised,  gar.  Financiere    (See  Beef)  and  sa. 

Fines  Herbes,  Fi-herbs  saute  w.  shallots,  moistened, 
fi-herbs. 

Fontange,  On  flat  Duchesse  pot.  gar.  v/hite  beans  pu., 
braised  lettuce, 

Fricandeau,  Kernel  split,  larded,  braised,  gar.  and  sa. 
facultative. 

Garnis  (Garnishings),  Alsacienne,  Arlesienne,  Bizantine, 
Bruxelloise,  Chartres,  Chasseur,  Clamart,  Choisy, 
Champignons,  Dubarry,  Forestiere,  Hongroise,  Itali- 
enne,  Japonaise,  Jardiniere,  Judic,  Lyonnaise,  Mace- 
doine,  Montpensier,  Nigoise,  Parmentier,  Piemontaise, 

—  208  — 


VEAL 

PortugaLse,  Saint  Mande,  Soubise,  Viroflay,  Vichy,  etc. 

(See  Beef).     Mad.  sa.  torn,  demi-glace,  thi.  gravy. 
Goulash  (See  "Miscellaneous  Applications."). 
G  pen  ad  in  (See  terms  of  different  cuts),  gar.  facultative. 
Holstein,     Escalope,     breaded  English     style,    fried  vr. 

butter,   gar.   w.   chopped   eggs,     caper,   anchovies,   fi- 

herbs,  brown  butter. 
Indienne,  Stew  w,  curry  and  rice  or  slice  curry  sa. 
Italienne,  Slice,  saute  in  oil,  Italienne  sa. 
Idzelkely,   Cut  in  dice,   same  Goulash,   onions   and  torn. 

in  dices,  moistened  ere.  reduce,  rice. 
Jus,  au  (With  gravy),  Braised,  roasted,  coulis  or  coction. 
Keftedes   (Greek  style).  See  "Miscellaneous   Cuts"). 
Kossuth,  Saute  w.  paprika,  moistened  ere.  w.  Jul.,  ham 

and  mu. 
Lison,  Gar.  w.  Duchesse  pot.  w.  tongue,  t'imbale  of  let- 
tuce, mad.  sa. 
Loose-Vinken   (Flamish  Paupiette),  Rolled  w.  salt  pork 

in   center.     Same   "Carbonade." 
Madeleine,     Gov.   fo-meat     on  bottom  of  art.,     gar.   w. 

timbale  art.  pu.,  thi.  gravy. 
Maintenon,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  salpicon,  breaded  English  style, 

Financiere  sa. 
Maraichere,  Gar.  w.  fried  oyster-plant,  rissole  pot.,  thi. 

gravy. 
Marechale,  Breaded  English  style,  fried  w.  butter,  gar. 

w.  asp.  tips  w.  truf.  on  top,  thi.  gravy. 
Marengo,  Saute  in  oil,  onions,  garlic,  moistened  w.  wh. 

wine,     Espagnole     sa.,     pounded     tom.,     mu.,     bread 

crust,  fi-herbs. 
Marie-Louise,    Gar-    w.    bottom    of    art.    fil.    w,    ch.    pu. 

sliced  truf.,  thi.  gravy. 
Marigny,  Gar.  w.  braised  lettuce,  gre.  peas,  string  beans, 

thi.  gravy. 
Mazarin,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  cucumber,  pot.  croq.,  mad.  sa.  w. 

tom. 
Matignon,     Braised   or   saute   cov.   w.   Matignon,      (See 

Mirepoix)    cov.   w.  caul.,  braised,  served  w.   stock. 
Medal i!on,  Cooked  one  side,  dec.  divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Metternick,  Kernel  braised,  slices  meat  w.  Bechamel  sa. 

and  paprika,  glazed,  serve  rice  pilaf  and  stock  or  gar. 

—  209  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

rice  pilaf,  braised  red  cabbage  in  jul.,  braised  chest- 
nuts, Soubise  sa.  w.  paprika. 
Mignon,  Broiled  saute,  gar.  and  sa.   facultative. 
Miribel,  Gar.  w.  fried  cauliflower,  fried  egg-plant,  fried 

torn.,  rice  croq.,  thi.  gravy  w.  torn. 
Milanaise,  Breaded  English  style  w.  grated  cheese,  fried 

in  butter,  gar.  w.  spaghetti,  Milanaise  torn.  sa. 
Monarque,   Gar.     w.    bouquet    of    carrots     and    turnips 

glazed,  smothered  celery  jul.  bet-  mad.  sa. 
Morland,  Breaded,  w.  truf.  on  mu.  pu.,  mad.   sa. 
Motholon,    On   slice    of   tongue,   truf.    and   mu.   head   on 

top,  mad.  sa. 
Napolitaine,   Cooked   cov.   Mornay   sa.,   breaded  English 

style,  fried,  gar.  macaroni  Napolitaine,  demi-glace.  w. 

t'om. 
Nelson,  Same  as  Metternich,  Soubise  sa.,  w.  sliced  ham 

between  slices  of  meat,  cov.   Soubise  sa.,  glaced. 
Nemours,  Gar.  w.  carrots,  Vichy,  gre.  peas,  Parisienne 

pot.,  mad.  sa. 
Noix,   Kernel,   braised   gar.   and   sa.        See    "Garnis". 
Nonette,    (See   "Beef  Nonette"),   Same  gar.   and   sa. 
Orientale,      Gar.    rice    pilaf    w.    curry,      braised    celery, 

braised  stuf.  okra,  thi.  gravy  w.  curry. 
Orloff  (Same  "Nelson"),  W.  sliced  truf.  between  meat, 

cov.  w.  Mornay  sa.  w.  onion  pu.  highly  sea. 
Ossi-Buchi,  Braised  w.  chopped  onions  and  pounded  tom. 

moistened  w.  white  wine. 
Papale,  Cook  raw  in  paper  cases  w.  duxelle  and  truf., 

bake  in  slow  oven,  Papillote  style. 
Papillote,  Cook,  put  in  paper  cases  w.  duxelle,  slices  of 

ham,  baked. 
Paupiette,   Slice   cov.   fo-meat,   rolled,  braised,   gar.   and 

sa.  according  to  article. 
Pavalas,  Slice  stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  truf.  and  tongue 

in  dice,  rolled,  braised,  gar.  w-   small  vege.  in   Char- 
treuse, mad.  sa.  and  stock. 
Perigourdine,  Stuf.  fo-meat,  fresh  pork  and  foi-g.  w.  truf., 

enveloped  in  caul.,  broiled  or  saute,  truf.  sa. 
Perkoell,  Goulash  style  w.  pork  (See  Idzelkely). 
Piemontaise,   Gar.  w.   risotto   Piemontaise,   mad.   sa.   w. 

white  truf. 

—  210  — 


VEAL 

Poitrine   (Breast),  Boneless,  stuf.  divers  styles  and  gar. 

blanqiiette  w.  gristle. 
Pojarski,   Chopped  veal  mixed  w.   butter,  half  and  half, 

season,    reform    in    shape,    bread    English    style,    fry 

\v.   butter,   gar.  and  sa,   optional. 
Pontoise,      Cooked   veal   on    skev^^er   alternated   w.    mu., 

broiled,  tom.  sa. 
Preville.    Gar.    w.    stuf.    tom.,    braised    lettuce,    fondante 

pot.,  mad.  sa. 
Primeurs  or  Printaniere,  Gar.  w.  young  spring  vege.  in 

bouquet,  divers  sa.  or  gravy. 
Puree   (All  mashed  vege),  Gar.  w.  puree  and  gravy. 
Provengale,  Stuf.  Provengale  or  gar.  (See  beef)  Proven- 
gale  sa. 
Renaissance  (See  Beef),  Same  gar. 
Romanoff,   Same  Metternich,  add  braised  fennel. 
Saintonge,   Gar.   w.    small   turnips   in   butter,    gre.   peas 

French  style,  thick  gravy. 
Schnitzel,    Paprika    schnitzel.       Thin    slices   w.    paprika 

saute     w.    butter,     moistened   w.    cream,     or   wiener 

schnitzel,  breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  gar. 

and   sa.   optional. 
Sen  I  is,  Gar.  w.  broiled  mu.,  pot.  croq.,  thi.  gravy. 
Sevigne,    On    slice   of   foi-g.    gar.    truf.,    mu.,    dec.    quen 

truf.   sa. 
Seymour,  Breaded  English  style,  crumbs  mixed  w.  truf., 

fried  in  butter  on  mu,  pu.,  gar.  w.  svv^eetb.  croq.,  mad. 

sa. 
Slavonienne,     Larded   and    pickled,     cov.   w.    onion    pu. 

enveloped  w.   bread   paste,   bake  in   slow  oven. 
Truffles,  Broiled,  braised,  saute,  gar.  w.  truf.  or  sa. 
Turque  (Turkish  style).  On  rice  pilaf,  gar.  w.  ch.  livers 

and  egg-plant  saute,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Vert-Pre,  All  gar.  w.  green  vege.  or  sa.  broiled,  braised 

saute,    according    to    article,    also   Paille    pot.,    water- 
cress and  butter,  Maitre  d'Hotel. 
Vichy,  Braised,  broiled,  saute,  gar.  w.  Vichy  carrots  and 

gravy. 

Zingara,  Braised,  broiled,   saute  on  slices  of  harn,   Zin- 
gara  sa. 

—  211  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON 

(AGNEAU    ET    MOUTON) 

Lamb   and     mutton  are   the   best     meats  after  beef.^ 
Lamb,   after  the   age   of   six   months,  is   called  mutton. 
The   meat   of   the    lamb    before    two    months    has    little 
flavor,  is  sticky,  white  and  soft.     After  that  time  it  is 
delicious,   especially   if   the   animal  has   been   fed  upon 


milk,   the   meat   being  tender   and  very  nourishing  for 
children,  convalescents  and  old  feeble  people. 

Roasted  or  broiled  are  the  most  natural  preparations. 
The  preparation  of  mutton  is  the  same  as  for  lamb, 
and  it  is  eaten  rare,  but  lamb  is  eaten  well  cooked. 
Following  are  200  recipes  for  lamb  and  mutton, 

NOTE — For  all  preparations,  see  "Filet"  and  "Mignon" 
in  pages  concerning  Beef.     Nearly  all  of  the  garnishings 

—  212  — 


LAMB 

are  the  same,  so  it  is  not  necessary  to  repeat  them. 
These  garnishings  can  be  served  with  crustades  and 
tartelettes;  the  large  garnishings  can  be  used  for  the 
saddle,  racks  and  legs.  The  garnishings  of  potatoes  is 
the  same. 

See  names  of  "Cuts  of  Meats." 

NAMES   AND    DIVERS   TERMS   OF    LAMB 

AND    MUTTON 
(Divers   Noms  de   I'Agneau  et  du   Mouton) 

Baron,  Saddle  .and  leg  roast;  Blanquette,  stew; 
Bouiili.  boiled;  braise,  braised;  brochette,  in  skewer; 
Carbonade,  braised  slice;  carre,  rack;  cassoulet,  stew 
w.  beans;  cotelettes,  chops;  currie,  curry;,  daube, 
braised  w.  wine;  eminces,  cut  in  thin  slices;  epauie, 
shoulder;  epigramme,  cooked  boneless  breast;  escalope, 
thin  slice  or  cutlet;  filet,  tenderloin  or  fillet;  fricassee, 
fricasse  white  stew;  gigot,  leg;  hachis,  hash;  haricot 
d'Agneau  ou  mouton,  stew  w.  beans;  ragout  iriandais, 
Irish  stew;  kebap,  Turkish  stew;  filet  mignon,  small 
tenderloin;  pate  de  mouton  ou  d'agneau,  mutton  or  lamb 
pie;  navarin,  brown  lamb  stew  w.  pot.;  noisette,  small 
pieces  without  bones  and  fat;  noix,  kernel  or  nut; 
poitrine,,  breast  of  lamb;  ragout,  brown  stew;  roti, 
roasted;  saute,  cooked  quickly  over  a  sharp  fire;  selle, 
saddle;  schaschliks,  Russian  sliced  w.  ham  and  pork; 
en  tranches,  in  slices. 

TIME    REQUIRED    TO    COOK 

(See  Notes   on   Cooking  of   Beef) 

Leg  of  lamb,  50  min.  to  li/4   hours. 
Leg  of  mutton,  1^/4  to  lYz  hours  or  more. 
Rack  of  lamb,  25  to  35  min. 
Rack  of  mutton,  30  to  50  min. 
Saddle  of  lamb,  1  to  l^^  hours. 

S'addle  of  mutton,  1^2  to  2  hours,  according  to  size 
and  fat. 

—  213  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


LAMB   OR    MUTTON    BROILED    OR    SAUTE 

English  lamb  chops,  20  to  30  mm. 

English  mutton  chops,  25  to  35  min.  or  more. 

Lamb  chops,  8  to  10  min. 

Mutton  chops,   10   to   15  min. 

Lamb  steak,  10  to  15  min. 

CHOPS,   NOISETTES,  ETC. 

Albertlne   in    cocotte,   Fil.   w.   mu.    pu.,   gar.   w.  noisette 

pot.,  Colbert  sa. 
Algerlenne,    Stuf.    w-    chestnut    pu.,    sprinkled    truf.    on 

flat   sweet   pot,   croq.,   tom   sa.   w.    chopped   pistachio 

and  truf. 
Alexandra,    Breaded   English   style,    gar.    w,    truf.,   mu., 

cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  mad.   sa. 
Allemande,   Breaded    English    style,   gar.    w.   cucumbers 

and  mu.,  thi.  ere.  sa.,  all  sa. 
Andalouse,  Stuf.  w.  onion  pu.  and  sweet  pep.,  Maximi- 

lienne  sa.  w.  tom. 
Anglaise  (English  Style),  Boiled,  breaded  English  style, 

gar.  and  sa.  and  boiled  vege.  if  desired. 
Arago,  Stuf.  duxelle  w.  truf.  cov.  fo-meat,  large  star  of 

truf.  on  top,  Chateau  sa. 
Argenteuil,   Dipped   in   butter,   then     rolled     in      bread 

crumbs,   broil,   gar.   w.   asp.   tips   or   breaded   English 

style. 
Armentiere,  Breaded  w.  butter,  broiled  on  art.  pu.,  mad. 

sa. 
Ballandar,     Gar.  w.  cepes,     bottom  of  art.  cut  in  four, 

sweet  pep.  in  dice,   mad-   sa.  w.   tom.  and  capers. 
Baron  Brisse,  On  mu.  pu.,  slice  truf.  on  top,  gar.  w.  fried 

root  celery,  Chateau  sa. 
Bayeldi   Iman,  On  egg-plant  saute,   %  torn,  on  top,  thin 

Colbert  sa.  w.  mint. 
Beauharnais,  Stuf.  duxelle  w.  truf.   cov.  w.   sweet  pep., 

gar.  w.  risotto  Oriental,  Maximilien  sa. 
Behague,    Gar.    w.    braised    celery,    stuf.    cucumbers, Col- 
bert sa. 

—  214  — 


LAMB 

Belleclaire,  In  cocotte,  gar.  duxelle  w.  foi-g.,  bottom  of 

art.,  mu.  head  on  top,  Noisette  pot.  around,  cov.  Col- 
bert sa.  w.  taragon. 
Bellevue,    Cold,    dec.    in   jelly,    gar.    w.    fancy   vege.      if 

desired. 
BenoTton,   Stuf.   w.   foi-g.   pu.,    cov.   Morney   sa.,   All.   sa, 

w.  truf.  around,  sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Bergere,   In    cocotte,   sliced   pot.    salt   pork   cut   in   dice 

and  field  mu.  saute,  thi.  gravy. 
Biarritz,    Stuf.   w.   ham   pu.    and   truf.,   breaded   English 

style,  mad.  sa.  w.  sweet  pep.  in  dices. 
Biilancourt,   Stuf.  w.   chestnut  pu.  gar.   flageolet  beans, 

mad.  sa. 
Bonfy,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  salpicon  cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed,  mad. 

sa. 
Bodeley,  On  flat  pot.  croq.  cov.  Soubise  sa.,  glazed. 
Bonne    Fern  me,    In    earthen    dish    w.    pot.    cut    in    dice, 

white  beans,  salt  pork  around,  clear  gravy. 
Bonnefoy,  See  "Beef  Filet,"  same  style. 
Bordelaise,  Gar.  w.  cepes  saute  Bordelaise,  Bataille  pot., 

Bordelaise  sa. 
Bouchere,  Chops  not  trimmed,  broiled,  gar.  facultative. 
Bourgeuil,  On  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  mu.  pu.,  slice  truf. 

on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Bourgeoise,  Gar.  w.  small  fancy  vege.,  thi.  w.  mad.  sa. 
Bourguignonne,  In  earthen  dish  gar.  w.  salt  pork,  small 

onions,  mu.,  Bourguignonne  sa. 
Braise,  Braised,  all  lamb  and  mutton  gar.  and  sa.  facul- 
tative. 
Brace    Chops,    Chops    cut   off   double   rack     or      saddle, 

broiled    gar.    and    sa.    optional. 
Brazza,  Stuf.  w.  Jerusalem  art.  salpicon,  horseradish  sa. 
Breast,   Ravo    breaded,    broiled,    gar.    optional   or    cook 

and  take  out  the  bones,  breaded,  broiled  or  saute, 
Breton ne.  Gar.  w.  white  beans,  flageolet  beans,     Liina 

beans,  etc.,  Bretonne  style. 
Bruxelloise,  Stuf.  w.  sausage  fo-meat,  envelope  in  caul., 

piquante  sa.  w.  French  fried  pot. 
Buioz,  Cov.  w.  thi.  Mornay  sa.  cooked,  breaded  English 

style,  fry,  gar.  risotto  w.  truf.,  mad.   sa.  w.  tom. 

—  215  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bussy,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  cov,  fo-meat  sprinkled  w,  truf., 

Supreme  sa-   w.  truf.  in  dice. 
Cabaret,      In    earthen   dish   or     casserole     w.    shallots, 

moistened  w.  wh.  wine,  meat  glace,  pot.  Bataille,  fi- 

herbs. 
Cambon,   Stuf.   \v.   oyster-plant   salpicon,     cov.   fo-meat, 

sprinkled    w.    fried    sweet   pot.    cut    in    dice,    gar.    w. 

timbale  of  vermicelli,  tom.  sa. 
Capucine,  Gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.,  small  patties  fil.  w.  spinach, 

choron  sa. 
Carignan,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w.  cock's  combs 

and    kidneys    fried    in    batter,    torn.    sa. 
Casserole,  All  lamb  or  mutton  cooked  in  earthen  pan, 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  the  name. 
Cassoulet,    Cut    in     square     pieces,     fry,     add     onions, 

season  tom.  pu.   cooked  white  beans,  garlic  sausage, 

rind  of  salt  pork,  conserved  goose  and  garlic,  bake, 
Castillane,     Breaded     English   style     on   chestnut   pu., 

Castillane  sa. 
Caste iar,  Cov.  w.  mu.  pu,  w.  trefoil  made  w,  sweet  pep. 

on  top,  Colbert  sa. 
Catalane,  Stuf.  w.  mu.  salpicon  w.  ham  and  sweet  pep., 

Catalane  sa. 
Cettoise,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w.  baked  half  tom. 

w.  garlic,  fi-herbs  and  crumbs,  mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Cevenolaise,   Stuf.   w.   duxelle  w.   sweet  pep.   on   chest- 
nuts pu.,  mad.  sa. 
Champignon    (Mushrooms),   Gar.    w.   broiled   mu.   saute, 

cream,  stuffed,  etc.   according  to  article. 
Cham pval Ion,  Chops  not  trimmed,  saute,  after,  braised 

w.  sliced  pot.  and  onions,  moistened  bouillon  or  meat 

juice,  baked  and  served  in  earthen  pan. 
Champenoise,      Gar.    w.    stuf.    mu.,    pot.    croq.,      stewed 

prunes,  Bourguignon  sa. 
Chancel iere,  Roll  in  butter  and  then  in  bread  crumbs, 

broiled  on  art.  pu.,   Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Charleroi,     Cov.   w.   onion  pu.,     breaded   English   style, 

piquante  sa. 
Chartres,      Saute,    star   made   w.   taragon     on   puree   of 

French  peas,  Colbert  sa.  w.  taragon. 

—  216  — 


LAMB 

Chatelaine,  Stuf.  chi.  pu.  w.  onion  pu.  on  fresh  peas  pu., 

mad.   sa.   or  gar.   w.   bottom   of  art.   fil.   w.   chestnuts 

pu,  Parisienne  pot, 
Chatillcn,    &'tuf.    w.    minced    mu.    salpicon,      cheese    and 

glazed  on  string  beans  pu.,  thi.  gravy. 
Chevreuse,   Breaded   English   style   only,   chopped  truf., 

saute,  gar.  w.   bottom  of  art.   cut  in   four,   mu.,   stuf. 

olives,  mad.  sa. 
Chevreuil  (Venison  style),  Pickled,  gar.  Vv\  chestnut  pu., 

poivrade  sa. 
Chevreul,  Stuf.  w.  art,  pu.  gar.  w.  mixed  peas  and  string 

beans,  demi-glace  sa. 
Choiseul,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon,  gar.  w,  art.,  mu.  and  sweetb., 

thi.  All.  sa. 
Clementine,  On  slice  of  tongue,  gar.  w.  sweetb,  and  mu.. 

All.  sa,  and  Paille  pot. 
Cocotte,  All  articles  served  in  small  earthen  pan,  gar. 

and  sa,  according  to  article. 
Columbia,  Stuf.  tongue  salpicon  cov.  fo-meat,  sprinkled 

truf.,  tongue  and  pistachio,  mad.  sa.  w.  gre,  and  sweet 

pep.    in   dice. 
Combination,  Lamb  or  mutton,  broiled  or  saute  w.  vege., 

pot.  or  eggs  and  Italian  paste,  sa.  according  to  art. 
Comtesse,   Stuf.  ch.   salpicon  cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  on  top, 

gar.  w.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  mu.,  thi.  All.  sa. 
Constance,  Stuf.  fo.-meat  mousseline,  gar.  cock's  combs 

and  kidneys,  ere.  sa. 
Courbevoie,  Breaded  English  stj'le,  gar.   w.  cauliflower 

saute,  Soubise  sa. 
Cova,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w.  gre.  peas,  Bigarade 

sa.  w.  curagao. 
Crepinette,   Stuf.  w.   sausage  meat,  enveloped  in   caul., 

gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Cressonniere,     Shredded  water-cress,     salt  pork  cut  in 

dice  and  saute  mixed,  Hollandaise  sa,  w.  watercress 

butter.  ;    i-.; 

Custine,   Stuf.   duxelle   w.   truf.   breaded   English   style, 

mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Cyrano,  Gar.  on  top  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  foi-g.  pu., 

four  olives  made  w,  truf.  on  top,  Chateau  sa.  around. 

—  217  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Dampierre,   Breaded  English  style   on   diy  pu.   of  peas, 

Hussarde  sa. 
D'Anjou,  Slice  truf.  inside,  breaded  w.  butter,  broiled  on 

ch.  pu.,  mad.  sa. 
Dauphine,  Gar.  w.  asp.  tips,   pot.  Dauphine,  thi.  gravy. 
Deauville,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  cov.  fo-meat,  sprinkled  truf . 

and  tongue,  mad.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 
Diable,  Braised  or  saute,  cav.  w.  mustard  and  cayenne 

pep.,  breaded  English  style  or  butter,  Deviled  sa. 
Desaix,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  gar.  w.  pot.  croq.,  hot  Ravi- 

gote  sa. 
Dolmas,   Chopped   lamb   w.   fat  and   cooked   rice,  made 

in   balls   and  rolled     in   grape   leaves,     smothered   in 

earthen     pan  w.  onions     on  mutton     fat,  highly  sea. 

(Turkish). 
D'Ordogne,   Thin   slice   stuf.   w.   duxelle   chives   and   fo- 
meat,   rolled,   broiled,    Colbert   sa. 
D'Orsay,  Stuf.  tongue  salpicon  w.  mu.  and  truf.,  cut  in 

Jul.,  mad.  sa. 
Doyen,  Stuf.  w.  foi-g.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  and  foi-g.  quen., 

Supreme  sa.,  truf. 
Dubarry,     Stuf.     w.   cauliflower  pu.     cov.   Mornay  sa., 

glazed,  gar.  Parisienne  pot.,  clear  gravy. 
Dubeloy,  On  mu.  pu.,  slice  truf.  on  top,  Colbert  sa. 
Dumonteil,     Enveloped   w.   thick   Soubise  sa.,     breaded 

English  style  on  Jerusalem  art.  pu.,  mad.  sa. 
Durand,    Stuf.    w.    duxelles    w.    truf-,    enveloped   in    pan- 
cake, breaded  English  style  and  fried,  Colbert  sa. 
Elyseenne,   On  foi-g.  pu.  w.  truf.,  mad.   sa.    w.  mu.  and 

truf. 
English  chop,  Chop  cut  off  the  saddle,  rolled  w.  kidneys, 

broiled,  served  boiled  or  baked  pot. 
Epicurienne,  On  ch.   fo-meat  mousseline,  gar.  w.  sliced 

mu.  w.  ere.  sa.,  slice  truf.  on  top. 
Epigramme,    Lamb    chop    w.    piece    of   boneless    breast. 

Roll  in  butter,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  broiled,  gar.  and 

sa.  according  to  article.     See  "Breast." 
Farcis,  Stuffed  on  top  or  inside  w.  salpicon,  fo-meat,  pu., 

etc.,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Favorite,  Stuf.  w.  mu.  pu.  cov.  ch.  fo-meat  studded  with 

gold  leaf  on  top,  truf.  sa. 

—  218  — 


LAMB 

Fermiere,  Farmer  style,  braised  w.  sliced  xege.  served 

in   earthen   dish   w.   thi.   grav^%   gre.   peas   and   string 

beans. 
Financiers  Stiif.  w.  fo-meat,  dec.  gar.  Financiere.   (See 

beef) . 
Fines  Herbes,  Saute  w.  shallots,  moistened  white  wine, 

fi-herbs. 
Florentine,     Gar.   w.   bottom   of   art.     fil.    ere.   spinach, 

Venitienne  sa. 
Florian,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w.  braised  lettuce, 

onions   and   carrots   glazed,  olives,   pot.,   thi.   gravy. 
Forestiere,  Gar.  w.  moril,  cepes,  salt  pork,  Bataille  pot,, 

thi.   gravy. 
Fourre,   Stuf.   w.   salpicon  inside,  gar.   and   sa.   optional. 
Francillon,    Stuf.    w.    duxelle    and    fi-her.,    enveloped    in 

caul.,  truf.  sa. 

Freneuse,     Breaded     English  style   on   turnip   pu.,   thi. 
gravy. 

Frit  (Fried)  Breaded  English  style,  plain,  butter  or  oil, 

gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Gavardi,  Gar.  w.  braised  lettuce,  glazed  onions,  Colbert 

sauce. 
Georgienne,     Pickled  in  oil,   saute,   on  rice  pilaf  Turk- 
ish style,  gravy. 
Giralda,  Stuf.  w.  Spanish  onions  pu.  and  sweet  peppers, 

Maximilien  sa. 
Grecque  (Greek  style),  Gar.  w.  pilaf  Greek  style,  braised 

lettuce,  okra,  gravy. 
Grille  (Broiled),  All  kinds  of  lamb,  gar.  and  sa.  accord^ 

ing  to  article. 
Habirshaw,  Gar.   stuf.   cucumber,  cepes  saute,  mad.   sa. 
Hebe,   Stuf.  w.   ch.   salpicon,  cov.   fo-meat,   dec.  on  top, 

gar.  w.  mu.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  Supreme  sa.  w. 

truf. 
Heivelle,  Gar.  cepes  and  moril,  thi.   gravy. 
Henkiar    Bayendi    (See    Kebap),    Gar.    w.    egg-plant   pu. 

w.  onions,  garlic  and  paprika. 
Hen  riot,  Cov.  w.  Villeroy  sa.  breaded  English  style,  on 

mu.  w.  cream  sa. 

—  219  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Hussarde,  Gar.  w.  torn.  fil.  w.  shredded  onions,  tlii.  horse- 
radish sa.  glazed,  broiled  mu.  fil.  w.  onion  pu.,  Du- 
chesse  pot.,  Hussard  sa. 

Imam  BayeJdi,  On  fried  egg-plant,  baked  torn,  on  top, 
GOV.  Colbert  sa.  w.  chopped  mint. 

Imperatrice,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  cov.  fo-meat  sprinkled 
truf.,  on  celery  pu.,  Supreme  sa.  w.  Soubise. 

Infante,  On  sliced  mu.  w.  ere.  sa.,  cross  w.  sweet  pep. 
on  top,  Noisette  pot.  around. 

Italienne,  Breaded  English  style  and  cheese,  gar.  w. 
bottom  of  art.  Italienne  sa. 

Jardiniere,  Broiled,  braised,  breaded,  etc.  gar.  w.  vege., 
thi.  gravy. 

Kebap,  Turkish  dish,  cut  in  square  pieces  w.  fat  on 
skewer  w.  aromatic  herbs,  roast  or  broiled. 

Laciotat,  Breaded  in  butter  w.  fi-herbs,  broiled,  gar. 
w.  pounded  torn,  saute  w.  garlic,  mad.  sa.  w.  torn. 

Laura,  Stuf.  w.  macaroni  salpicon  mixed  pounded  tom. 
enveloped  in   caul.,   mad.    sa.   w.   tom. 

La  Valliere,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  green  peas 
or  asp.  tips,  Colbert  sa. 

Lefort,  Pickled  in  oil,  gar.  w.  cepes,  Poivrade  sa. 

Le  Verrier,  Stuf.  oyster-plant  salpicon,  cov.  fo-meat, 
star  made  half  w.  truf.  half  w.  tongue  on  bottom  of 
art.,  Colbert  sa.  w.  orange  juice. 

Limousine,  In  casserole  gar.  w.  glazed  onions  and  chest- 
nuts, thi.  gravy. 

LoVe  Fuller,  Stuf.  w.  art.  pu.  cov.  fo-meat,  gar.  w.  circle 
of  truf.,  red  and  green  pep.,  pistachio,  Sicilienne  sa. 

Louis  XXIV,  Stuf.  duxelle  w.  onion  pu.  breaded  English 
style,  torn.   sa.  w.   Soubise. 

Louisiana,  Gar.  w.  sweet  pot.  saute,  risotto  Creole, 
green   corn  saute,  fried  bananas  on  top,  ere.   sa. 

Louisianaise,  Cooked,  border  w.  sweet  pot.  pu.  baked, 
gar.  w.  green  corn  croq.,  Bearnaise  sa.  on  the  bor- 
der on  top,   tom.   sa.   around. 

Lu  cull  us,  Gar.  w.  whole  truf.,  foi-g.  cut  in  big  dice, 
saute,  Lucullus  sa. 

Macedoine,  Gar.  w.  mixed  fancy  vege.,  thicken  w.  butter, 
clear  juice   or  thick. 

—  220  — 


LAMB 

Maintenon,  Stuf.  w.  onion  pu.  w.  sliced  mu.  glaced.  truf. 

sa. 
Maison  d'Or,  On  slice  of  foi-g.  saute,  slice  truf,  on  top, 

truf.  sa. 
Majordome,  Pickled,  saute,  poivrade  sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 
Mai  maison,  Breaded  English  style  on  fresh  green  peas 

p.  gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  stuf.  torn.,  mad.  sa. 
Marechale,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w,  asp.  tips  w. 

Jul.   of  truf.,   slice   truf.  on  top,  mad.   sa. 
Marie-Louise,  Breaded  English  style,  gar.  w.  bottom  of 

art,  fil.  mu.  pu.,  slice  truf.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Marly,  Stuf.  art.   pu.  cov.  fo-meat,  sprinkled  truf.,   gar. 

w.   timbale  of  chicory,  truf.  sa. 
Mascotte,  Gar.   w.   bottom  of  art.   cut  in  dice.   Olivette 

pot.,  truf.  balls,  thi.  gravy- 
Mazagran,  Braised,  cold,  stuf.,  foi-g.  pu.  dec.  turf.,  gar. 

vr.  jelly. 
Mexicaine,     Stuf.   w.   ch.   pu.    cov.   fo-meat,      striped    w. 

green    and   sweet   peppers   and   fo-meat,   border   with 

point  of  fo-meat,  Maximilien   sa. 
Milanaise,     Breaded  English   style   and   cheese   gar.   w. 

spaghetti  Milanaise,  tom.  sa. 
Mignon    or    Mignonne,    Small,    gar.    w.    small   bottom    of 

art.  fil.  w.  asp.  tips,  dec.  ch.  quen.,  Aurore  sa. 
Minute,  Thin  slice  saute  w.  butter  and  fi-her. 
Mirabeau,  Stuf.  w.  onion  pu.  glazed.  Soubise  sa.  w.  truf. 
Mi  recount,   Stuf.  w.  fo-meat  mousseline  on  art.  pu.   Su- 
preme sa.  w.  truf. 
Miss    Betsy,   Breaded  English   style,   fried  in   butter   on 

mixed  pot.'  and  yellow  turnips  pu.,  thi.  gravy. 
Mixed  Grill,  Mixed  w.  broiled  kidney,  sausage,  mu.,  torn., 

pot.,  bacon  or  ham,  your  choice. 
Moderne,  On  chestnut  pu.  gar.  w.  art.  cut  in  four,  mu. 

truf.,  mad.  sa. 
Montesquieu,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  enveloped  w.  caul.,  mad. 

sa.  w.  tom. 
Montglas,  Stuf.  Montglas  salpicon,  mad.  sa. 
Montpensier,   Breaded   English   style,   gar.    w.    asp.   tips 

and  Jul.  of  truf.,  thi.  gravy. 
Morland,  Breaded  w.  truf.,  poa.  ere.  sa.  w.  mu.  and  truf. 
Mourier,  Gar.  w.  ch.  livers  marrow  on  top,  Colbert  sa. 

—  221  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY  ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mousquetaire,  Stuf.  w.  duxelles  and  ch.  fo-meat,  gar.  vr. 

art.  cut  in  four  pieces,  mu.  Provengale  sa. 
Murillo,  Stuf.  w.  mu.  salpicon,  glazed  on  torn,  pu. 
Mutton  chop,  Broiled,  gar.  according  to  the  name. 
Navarraise,   Stuf.   w.   ham   salpicon   w.   mu.   and   sweet 

pep.  glazed  on  half  tom.  saute,  tom.  sa. 
Nelson,    Stuf.    w.    onion    pu.,    demi-glace    sa. 
Nigoise,  Gar.  w.  pounded  tom.,  glazed  onions,  lima  beans 

or  broad  beans,  gravy  or  stock. 
Nilson,   Sliced   truf.    inside,   breaded   w.   butter,   broiled 

on  mu.  pu.,  mad.  sa.  w.  truf. 
Ninon,   On  pu.  of  ch.  sliced  truf.   on  top,  mad.   sa. 
Nizon,  Stuf.  w.  foi-g.  pu.  w.  truf.,  gar.  asp.  tips,  Colbert 

sa 
Non-Pareille,   Stuf.   ch.   salpicon,   cov.   fo-meat,   circle   of 

truf.,  gre.  and  sweet  pep.  on  top,  Bearnaise  sa. 
Nubienne,  Gar.  w.   rice  croq.  w.  foi-g.,  All.  sa.  w.  ring 

of  tongue,  mu.  truf.  and  chicken. 
Paloise,  On  half  baked  tomato,  mu.  head  on  top.  Gour- 
met sa. 
Panee,  Breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  gar.  and 

sa.  facultative.     See  "Panure.** 


Chops  Papillote  style 


Papillotte,  In  paper  casing,  w.  duxelle  and  slice  of  ham, 

baked. 
Patti,  Stuf.  w.  art.  pu.  and  ch.  on  slice  of  foi-g.,  truf.  sa. 
Paysanne,  Braised  w.  vege.,  country  style,  gravy. 
Pelissier,  Broiled,  gar.  w.  ch.  livers,  mu.  truf.,  mad.  sa. 

—  222  — 


LAMB 

Piemontaise,  Stuf.  w.  celery  pu.  w.  truf.  on  risotto,  mad. 

w.  torn.  sa. 
Perigourdine,  All  chops  or  noisette,  gar.  w.  truf.,  mad.  sa. 
Polonaise,  Breaded  English  style,  fried,  horseradish  sa. 
Pompadour,   Stuf.   w,   onion  pu.   glazed,   gar.   w,   bottom 

of  art.,  fil.  w.  asp.  tips.  Pompadour  &a. 
Primeurs,  All   articles  gar.   w.   spring  vege.   in  bouquet 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Provencale,   Stuf.   w.    duxelle   w.    garlic,   Provengale    sa. 

or  braised  gar.  w.  torn.   w.   garlic   saute,  mu.,   olives, 

with  anchovies  on  top,  Provengale  sa. 
Pyramid,  Noisette  saute  stuf.  w.  mu.  pu.  cov.  w.  bottom 

of  art.  pyramid  shape,  Colbert  sa. 
Rachel,   Gar.   w.   bottom  of  art    fil.  w.    small   ball   pot., 

sliced  truf.  on  top,  Bearnaise  sa. 
Racine,  Gar.  w.  vege.  cut  in  roots   (See  "Beef"). 
Reforme,    Breaded   English   style,   fried   in   butter.     Re- 
forme  sa. 
Reine,  Cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline  w.  truf.,  gar.  asp. 

tips,  Supreme  sa. 
Renaissance,  On  slice  foi-g.,  fluted  mu.  on  top,  Colbert 

sa.,  truf.  around. 
Robinson,  Gar.  ch.  liver  and  mu.  thi.  mad.  sa. 
Roti    (Roasted)    Gar.   and   sa.    optional. 
Russienne,   Stuf.   w.   yellow   turnips   pu.   glazed,     horse- 
radish sa.  w.  chopped  fennel. 
St.  George,  Stuf.  w.  onion  pu.  on  mu.  w.  cream  sa. 
St.    Hi  la  ire,   Stuf.   w.   fo-meat  mousseline     sprinkled   w. 

truf.  and  tongue  separated,  gar.  w.  jul.  of  green  pep. 

and  pounded  tom.,  mad.  sa. 
St.   Lo,     Gar.   w.   bottom  of  art.   saute,     pounded  tom., 

Colbert  sa.  w,  taragon. 
St.    Laurent,   Breaded,   broiled   mu.    Italian   sa.    w.   trut, 

souffle  potatoes. 
St.  Ouen,  Gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  green  peas,  t'om. 

sa.  w.  taragon. 
Salvini,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  livers  salpicon,  thi.  All.  sa.  glazed, 

mad.  sa.  w.  chopped  ham  and  mu. 
Savary,  Stuf.  w.  art.  pu.  on  celery  pu.  poivrade  sa. 

—  223  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Saute,  All  articles  fried   or   saute   in  pan  gar.   and   sa. 

optional. 
Senora,  On  mil.  pu.,  torn.  sa. 
Sevigne,  Stuf.  ch.  salpicon  lightly  breaded,  Supreme  sa. 

w.  truf. 

Signora,  Slice  truf.  inside  breaded  w.  butter,  Maximilien 
sa.  w.  truf. 

Signorita,  Gar.  w.  noisette  pot.  Mexicaine  sa. 

Soubise,  Breaded  Englisii  style  or  butter,  on  onion  pu. 
or  Soubise  sa. 

Steniey   (See  "Beef"),  Same  gar.  and  sa. 

Suedoise,  Breaded  w.  butter,  broiled,  apple  sa.  w.  horse- 
radish or  Suedoise  sa. 

Surprise,  Stuffed  inside,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  arti. 

Sully,  Gar,  w.  stuf.  braised  lettuce,  noisette  pot.. 
Chateau  sa. 

Talma,  Stuf.  w.  foi-g.  cov.  fo-meat,  sprinkled  av.  tru., 
cream  sa.  w.  almond  milk  w.  mu.  and  truf. 

Thermidor,  Saute  moistened  w.  port  wine,  gar.  moril 
and  sliced  foi-g. 

Tomate,  (Tomatoes),  Gar,  or  sa.,  broiled,  pu.,  cullis,  etc. 
Toscane,   Breaded,   crumbs   and    cheese    on   poi.   Anna, 
mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 

Toulouse,  Braised  or  saute  (See  Beef),  same  gar.  and  sa. 
Turinol&e,  Stuf,  inside  w.  marrow  salpicon,  breaded,  gar. 
mu.,  stuf.  olives,  mad.  sa. 

Valois,   Stuf,     Montglas     salpicon,     gar.     stuf,     olives, 
Valois  sa. 

Villageoise,  Gar.  braised  lettuce,  carrots,  turnips,  gre. 
peas,  thi.  gravy. 

Vero-Doda,  Stuf.  sausage  meat  w.  truf,  enveloped  in 
caul.,  cov,  w,  piquante  sa. 

Villeroy,  Cooked,  env.  Viileroy  sa.  breaded  English 
style,  all  sa.  w.  tongue  and  truf.  in  dices. 

Wilson,  Stuf.  duxeiles  gar.  poa.  tom.  pot.  croq.  w.  Virgi- 
nia ham,  thi,  gravy, 

—  224  — 


PORK 


PORK  (Pore) 

As  there  are  so  many  different  styles  of  preparing 
povK  it  is  far  better  to  go  to  a  first-class  pork  butcher, 
than  to  prepare  it  one's  self,  and  get  your  choice  such 
as  Chitterling  sausages,  blood  pudding,  ham  and  pigs 
feet,  flat  sausage,  smoked  or  dried  sausages  and  head 
cheese.  Without  pork  we  would  have  no  lard  and  con- 
sequently no  cooking.  Lard  is  just  as  indispensable  as 
butter  in  the  kitchen. 


NOTE— See  article  "Beef"  for  the  time  of  cooking, 
which  is  about  the  same  as  big  meats.  See  also  the 
manner  of  the  cutting  of  the  meats. 

DIVERS  PORK  PREPARATIONS 

Abbreviations:   Same  as  those  for  "Beef." 
Carre    (Racks   of   Pork),     Roasted   or   braised     gar,   w. 
choucroute,  red  cabbage,  Brussels  sprouts,  Apple  sa. 

—  225  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      E  N  C  Y  C  L  O  P  E  D  I .» 


marmalade,  compote,  puree,  lentils,  onions,  dry  peas 
pot.,  etc.;  Sauce  Charcutiere,  hachee,  piquante 
Robert,  deviled,  torn.,  etc.  Country  style  baked  w 
onions  and  pot.  sea.  or  divers  beans. 

Carbon nade  (See  Beef)  Same  style. 

Cotes  or  Filet  (Pork  Chops),  Broiled,  braised  or  saute, 
Charcutiere  gar.  w.  pot.  pu.  and  Charcutiere  sa. ; 
Flamande  saute  av.  thin  sliced  apple  on  dish,  baked; 
Grandmother  chopped  w.  onion,  butter  and  sea.  re- 
forme  chop  w.  bone,  enveloped  in  caul,  broiled  w. 
mashed  pot.;  Milanaise  breaded  crumbs  and  cheese 
gar.  Milanaise  torn.  sa.  Breaded  divers  styles. 
Piquante  Robert  sa.  etc.,  same  gar.  used  for  Carre. 

Epaule  or  Leg,  Shoulder,  boneless,  roll  and  tie, 
take  off  the  edgebone  of  leg.  Roast,  braised,  same 
gar.  and  sa.  Carre. 

Petit  Sale,  Breast  pickled.  Fat  used  for  larding.  Smoked 
Bacon. 

SUCKLING   PIG 

(Cochon  de  Lait) 

Suckling  Pig  is  a  young  one  of  six  or  eight  weeks, 
which  has  been  nourished  with  milk.  The  suckling  pig 
is  served  whole,  roasted,  stuffed,  boneless  or  cold,  w. 
jelly. 

Allemande   (German  style).  Whole  or  boneless  stuf.  w. 

sliced  apples  saute  w.  raisins  and  spices.  Roasted  2 

or  3  hours,  thick  gravy. 
Anglaise    (English    style),    Whole    or    boneless    stuf.    w. 

fresh   bread   that   has    been   soaked,    chopped   cooked 

liver   w.    onions,    fo-meat    sausage,    sage,   thyme,    sea. 

eggs,  parsley.    Cooked   2  to   3  hours  or  more,  served 

apple  sa.,  mashed  pot.,  etc.,  thin  gravy. 
Farcis   (Stuffed),  Divers  stuf.  acocrding  to  the  style  of 

country,  a  la  Frangaise,  a  I'Anglaise,  a  I'Americaine, 

English,  American  or  French  style. 
Gelee  (In  Jelly),  Carved  raw,  square  pieces,  sea.  cooked 

w.  aromatic  w.  white  wine  and  stock.  When  cooked 

put  in  tureen,  strained,  covered  w.  jelly. 

—  226  — 


PORK 

DIVERS   SAUSAGES   AND    DERIVATIVES 

Saucisses  et   Derives) 

(Andouillettes,  Saucisses,  Boudins  et  Saucissons) 

There  are  a  great  many  varieties  of  sausages;  they 
are  made  v^ith  the  meat  of  pork,  hashed,  spiced  and 
put  in   a   easing. 

^ndouMlettes,  Chitterling  sausages  are  generally  bought 
cooked,  shredded  on  top,  broiled  gar.  w.  mashed  pot. 
or  veg.  pu.  Bourguignonne  sliced  saute  w.  escargots 
butter,  Lyonnaise  sliced  saute  w.  shredded  onions, 
lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

Boudin  (Blood  pudding),  French  composition.  Chopped 
onions,  leaf  lard  in  dice,  pork  blood,  cream  brandy 
and  spices,  3  raw  eggs  per  quart,  fill  casing  sausage 
and  tie. 

Poached    in    boiling    water — 20    minutes — cold    ready 
for   use. 

Anglaise,  Composition  add  cooked  rice,  broiled  or  fried 
gar.  divers  pu. 

Flamande  (Flamish  style)  Composition  add  w.  browned 
Corinth  e  and  Smyrne  raisins.     Broiled  w.  apple  sa. 

Lyonnaise,   Sliced  saute  w.  shredded  onions. 

Normande,  Sliced  w.  thin  sliced  apples  saute  w.  butter, 
butter  and  minced. 

Omelette,   Sliced  thin,   saute  w.  butter,  flat  omelette. 

Boudin  blanc  (White  sausages),  Composition,  Pork,  fo- 
meat  V2  lb.  pork,  12  ounces  fat,  2  ounces  goose  liver 
pounded  and  strained,  add  chopped  cook  onions, 
1  gill  cream  seas.,  put  in  casing  sausages,  tied, 
poached. 

Boudin  de  Volaille  (Chicken  sausages).  Composition,  1 
lb.  cooked  chi.  white  meat,  12  ounces  fresh  lard,  12 
wh.  eggs,  onion,  thyme,  bay  leaves,  sea.  pounded, 
strained,  add  2  gills  boiled  cream  put  in  casing  sau- 
sage, tied,  poached. 

—  227  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Crepinettes,  A  flat  sausage  in  caul.  w.  pork  fo-meat 
(See  force  meat).  Divers  styles,  force-meat  w.  brandy 
and  li-herbs.  Mixed,  chopped  truf.  and  sliced  truf.  on 
top.  Also  divers  meat,  pig's  feet,  cooked  and  mixed. 
Broiled  or  saute,  divers  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  arti- 
cle, i    .J>^;r 

Eminces  et  Haches  (See  "Emince  and  Hash"). 

Enchiladas  (Mexican),  Pork  w.  olives,  onions,  chili  pep- 
pers on  corn  meal,  mush,  roiled  and  cooked  in  corn 
husks,   tied,   garlic   if  desired. 

Fricadelle  (See  Miscellaneous  Beef),  Divers  sa.  and  gar. 

Gayettes,  Crepinette  style,  cut  in  dice,  liver,  fat,  gar- 
lic, sea.,  envelop  in  caul.,  cooked  in  dish  in  oven  30 
min. 

Pate  de  Pore  (English  Pie),  special  dish  sliced  ham, 
sliced  pork  sea.  onicns  sliced  raw  pot.  sage  parsley 
and  water.  Gov.  w.  pie  paste,  bake  two  and  one-half 
hours.  Also  Pate  de  Foie,  liver  pate,  Pate  de  Pore, 
served  cold. 

Petit  Sale,  Salt  Pork  (Pore  fume),.  Smoked  Pork;  cut 
in  slices,  broiled  or  saute.  Boiled  w.  cabbage.  Divers 
pu  .or  vege.     Bacon,  gar.  same. 

Pore  Bouilli,  Boiled  Pork,  English  style.  Salted  pork 
gar.  same  boiled  beef  or  divers  pu. 

Saucisses  (Sausages),  Divers  varietites  of  Chipolata  or 
nut  sausages.  Crepinette,  flat,  long,  round,  breaded, 
truffles  liver,  Francfort  Spanish,  Chorizos,  etc.  gar. 
and  sa.  according  to  style.  Generally  gar.  w.  mashed 
pot.,   braised  cabbage,   risotto,  white  wine   sa.,  etc. 

Saucissons,  Dry  large  sausages,  sometimes  smoked  and 
used  for  relishes,  Aries,  Lyon,  Paris,  Anglais,  Alle- 
mand,  Suisse,  Viennois,  Russe,  foie-gras,  etc.  cut  in 
thin  slices  (See  Relishes). 

SMOKED    HAM    (Jambon) 

Ham  is  used  a  great  deal  in  cooking  and  if  well  pre- 
pared and  of  a  good  quality,  served  hot  or  cold,  is  a  wel- 
come dish  at  any  table.  Pick  out  a  ham  of  first  quality, 
soak  in  tepid  water  one  half  hour,  brush  well,  let  boil 
3  or  4  hours,  on  a  slow  fire,  according  to  size.   If  braised, 

—  228  — 


PORK 

take  out  of  water  after  two  hours,  trim  and  put  in  a 
braising  pan  with  spices,  white  wine  or  madeira,  sauce 
Espagnole. 

For  cold  ham,  trim  when  cold,  decorate  according  to 
desire.  The  ham  of  bear  or  wild  boar  is  prepared  in 
the  same  manner. 

A  TAnglaise  (York  Ham),  Boiled,  gar.  w.  fresh  vege., 
demi-glace  sa. 

Bayonnaise,  Braised  w.  rice  pilaf,  mu.  chipolata,  mad. 
sa. 

Bourguignonne,  Braised  w.  Mirepoix  and  red  wine,  gar. 
w.  mu.,  demi-glace  w.  coction. 

BouiMi,  Boiled,  Slowly  3  or  4  hours,  gar.  and  sa.  accord- 
ing to  ham. 

Braise,  Boiled  two  hours,  then  braised  w.  sliced  vege. 
aromatics  and  wine.  Gar.  braised  endives,  spinach, 
Bourgeoise,    etc.,    mad.    sa. 

Camerani,  Braised  rolled  in  paste  w.  aromatics  and  truf. 
baked  when  half  cooked,  pour  mad.  wine  inside.  Cook 
3  or  4  hours,  ga.r-   and  sa.  if  desired  or  cold. 

Chanoinesse,  Braised  w.  peel  of  truf.  gar.  w.  noodles, 
thi.  w.  butter  and  onion  pu.  w.  jul.  of  truf.,  demi- 
glace  sa. 

Choucroute,  Gar.  w.  choucroute  and  mashed  pot.,  thi. 
gravy. 

Decore,     Cooked,     trimmed,     decorated     on     the     skin 

or  another  style  for  buffet  or  show. 
Desosse,    Boneless,    raw    or    cooked    and    pressed.     For 

quick  service  or  buffet,  hot  or   cold,  gar.  optional. 
Epicurienne,    Raw    kernel,     pickled    w.    mad.    and    truf., 

place   in   pig's   bladder   boiled   2   or   3   hours;    reduce 

stock;    gar.  w.  truf. 
Financiere,  Braised,  glazed,  gar.  Financiere   (See  Beef) 
Fitz  James,  Braised  gar.  w.  timbale  of  risotto,  stuf.  mu., 

mad.  sa. 

Frcid,  Cold  ham.  Boiled  or  glazed.  Cut,  sliced  w. 
jelly  or  decorated  w.  jelly. 

—  229      — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Georgia  (Virginia  Ham),  See  Camerani  style.    Glazed  w. 

molasses,  gar.  sweeet  pot.  Georgia  style. 
Glace    (Glazed),     Boiled  or   braised     cov.   w.   sugar   or 

molasses.    Baked   or   use   red   hot   iron,   gar.   and   sa. 

optional. 
Grille  (Broiled),  Raw,  slice  for  steak,  or  thin  for  egg,etc. 
Jambonneau,   Small  ham,  hot,   gar.   w.   divers  pu.   chou- 

croute,  veget.  etc.  cold,  cov.  w.  browned  crumbs. 
Legumes    (Vegetables),     Gar.   w.   vege.   boiled,   braised, 

roasted,  fresh  or  smoked,  sa.  or  gravy. 
Leonard,     Braised,  gar.   w.   crust  fil.   green     vege.   and 

lazagnes,  thi.  tom.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.,  mad.  sa. 
Mandoline,     Cold,   trimmed,   mandoline   shape;      handle 

and  string,  on  pedestal,  according  to  article. 
Mousse  or  Mousseline,  See  under  Timbale  and  Mousse. 
CEufs'  files,   Cold  and  glace,  gar.  w.   stringed  eggs   and 

jelly  around  (See  ceufs  files). 
Pascal,  Slice  cooked  cov.  w,  Diable  butter,  crumbs  on 

top,  cov.  deviled  sa.,  glazed,  gar.  on  top  w.  asp.  tips, 

gnokis,  etc. 
Porte-Maillot,  Braised,  gar.  w.  braised  lettuce  and  cab- 
bage, carrots  and  turnips,  mad.  sa.  and  stock. 
Roti,  Fresh  leg  of  pork,  gar.  w.  vege.  or  pu.,  thi.  gravy, 
Saute,  Sliced  ham,  for  gar.  eggs,  etc. 
Souffle,  See  Timbale  or  Mousseline. 
T ruffe.  Same  Camerani,  fil.  w.  jelly  served  cold. 
Verdi,  Fresh  pickled  ham,  studded  w.  truf.  for  3  days, 

roast  gar.  w.  celery  cream,  cream  sa. 

HASH    AND    EMINCE 

(Hachis  et  Eminces) 

Hash  is  an  aliment  made  of  meat,  chicken,  game,  fish 
or  vegetables.  It  is  indigestible,  but  when  well  seasoned 
and  well  prepared  makes  a  good  dish.  Meat,  chicken, 
game,  fish  and  vegetables  should  be  cut  in  small  dice 
and  thickened  with  the  sauces  that  correspond  with 
the  meats.     If  the  meats  are  dark  thicken  with  sauce 

—  230  — 


PORK 

Espagnole,  tomatoes  or  juice.  The  potatoes  are  optional. 
If  the  meats  are  white  thicken  with  sauce  Allemande, 
Veloute,  Bechamel  or  Cream. 

The  Eminces  of  meats  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner.  The  only  difference  is  that  they  are  cut  in 
thin  slices  instead  of  cut  in  dice  and  the  sauces 
are  not  so  thick.  All  of  the  fat  must  be  cut  €ut  of 
the  meat.  Raw  meat  is  sometimes  used  and  is  mostly 
the  sautees.  Nevertheless  one  has  the  advantage  of 
being  served  quickly  when  one  is  in  a  hurry. 

(Abbreviations:  Same  as  those  for  "Beef") 

Allemande,  Chopped  ch.  very  fine,  thi.  All  sa.  or  cream 
sa.  in  mould  w.  sliced  tongue  in  bottom,  fil.  hash,  thin 
cream  sa.  around,  after  taken  out  of  mold. 

Americain  (American  style)  All  hash  mixed  w.  hashed 
pot.  chopped  onions  fried  w.  butter,  moistened  w. 
stock,  browned  w.  butter  in  pan,  served  w.  poa.  eggs, 
fried  egg,  sauce  or  gravy.  Use  corned  beef, 
lamb,  chicken,  game,  all  roast  meat. 

Bergere,  Lamb  hash  w.  field  mu,  in  dice  border  of 
Duchesse  pot.  baked,  lamb  kidneys  on  top. 

Bordure,  en,  Border  w.  Duchesse  pot.,  all  hash  served 
in  border,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  meat. 


Scallop  Shell 

Coquille,  In  scallops  shell  or  silver  shell,  thin  border 
w.  Duchesse  pot.  fil.  w.  hash,  baked,  divers  style. 

Cottage  Pie,  All  hash  on  dish  covered  w.  Duchesse 
pot.  baked   (French  Tambour). 

Eminces,  Thin  sliced  divers  meats. 

—  231  — 


G  AN  GEL'S      CULINARY      E  N  C  Y  G  L  O  P  E  DI  A 

Fermiere,  (Farmer  stye),  All  hash,  bordered  w.  sliced 
round  boiled  pot.,  fried  egg  on  top,   thi.   gravy. 

Gibier  (Game)   See  Saint  Hubert. 

Glace  or  G ratine  (Glazed,  Gratin),  All  minced  meat 
or  sliced,  thi.  w.  divers  sa.  w.  grated  cheese  or 
crumbs  on  top,   baked  or   salamander. 

Grand'mere  (Grand-mother),  All  hash  mixed  w.  mashed 
pot.   in   earthen   dish,   baked. 

Grecque  (Greek  style).  Lamb  or  mutton  w.  onions,  gre. 
and  sweet  pep.  curry,  thi.  torn.  sa. 

Mericourt,  All  hash  w.  onions,  gre.  and  sweet  pep.,  thi. 
torn,  in  pot.   border.    Fried   calf's   brains   on   top. 

Mexicaine,  All  hash  w.  onions,  gre.  and  chili  pep.  and 
pot.  all  cut  in  dice,  thi.  tom.  w.  chili  powder. 

Moussaka,  Mutton  hash  w.  mixed  egg-plant,  chopped 
onions,  mu.  parsley,  raw  egg,  thi.  tom.  sa.  and  bread 
crumbs,  highly  sea.  and  thick,  fried  sliced  egg-plant 
w.  the  skin  surrounded  in  mould,  a  layer  of  hash  and 
fried  egg-plant  cov.  w.  thi.  skin  baked  in  bain-marie 
according  to  size  of  mould,  unmould  after  5  min- 
utes,  chopped   parsley. 

Polonaise,  (Polish  style),  Hash  w.  onions  and  mu.  in 
dice,   thi.   poivrade   sa.,   poa.   egg   on   top. 

Portugaise  (Portuguese  style).  Hash  w.  onions  and 
pounded  tom.  gar.  w.  small  stuf.  tom.  w.  duxelle. 

Poulet,  All  chicken  hash  thi.  w.  divers  sa.  and  gar.  ac- 
cording to  meat. 

Saint  Hubert  (Hunter  Style),  All  game  in  hash,  sa. 
according   to   game. 

Shortcake,  Chicken  hash  between  cornmeal  cake,  very 
thin  on  cream  sauce,  cov.  w.  cream  sa.,  sliced  bacon 
on  top. 

Sweet-meat,  All  hash  mixed  w.  divers  raisins,  currant 
jelly,  sea.  ginger  br.  between  puff  paste,  baked,  serve 
gravy  w.  current  jelly  separately. 

Volaille  (Poultry),  All  chicken  or  divers  poultry  hash. 
Ducks,  pigeons,  etc.  sa.  according  to  article. 

Zingara,  All  hash  w.  onions,  gre.  and  sweet  pep.,  thi. 
tom.  sa.  browned.  Fried  egg  in  oil  and  rolled  on  top, 
tom.  sa.  around. 

—  232  — 


COLD  MEAT 


COLD  MEAT    (Le  Froid) 

The  dressing  of  cold  meats  constitutes  high  culinary 
art.  They  can  be  served  on  a  pedestal,  garnished  with 
flowers  made  of  wax  or  vegetables  or  of  golden  color 
jelly,  which  gives  a  certain  elegance  to  a  dinner.  The 
dressing  of  cold  meats  should  be  precise  and  made  to 
look  very  appetizing.    There  are  a  great  many  different 


Cold  Meat   (Le  Froid) 

styles    of   dressing   and   consequently   I   will    only   give 
a   few   details   here. 

Small  articles  can  be  dressed  upon  pieces  of  buttered 
bread,  chopped  parsley,  coral,  chopped  eggs  or  truffles; 
on  sliced  hominy  fancy  shapes; on  cornstarch,  garnished 
with  jelly  cut  in  dice  or  croutons.  Large  pieces  of 
chiczen  or  gam.e  are  served  on  an  artistic  pedestal, 

—  233  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


BEEF— Boeuf 

Daube,   Braised  served   in  tureen. 

Contre-Filet      (Shortloin),     Roast   or   braised,    gar.      w. 

salad  and  jelly. 
Filet   (Tenderloin),  Roast  or  braised,  in  aspic,  gar.  w. 

salad,   jelly   in   Bellevue. 
Tongue,  Tongue  in  aspic,  in  lyre   shape,     or     cov.  ch. 

froid  sa.,  dec. 
Mode,  Braised  w.  vege.  in  tureen. 
Roast,     Beef,   sirloin,   tenderloin,   gar.  w.   salad,     fancy 

vege.  and  jelly  around. 


Larded  Tenderloin 


VEAL— Veau 


Carre    (Rack),   Roasted  or   braised,   chop   frills   gar.   w. 

isalad,  vege.  and  jelly  around. 
Cote  (Chop),  Dec.  in  Bellevue  w.  vege.  and  jelly. 
Foie      (Liver),     Braised,   mousse,   timbale,   etc.   gar.  w. 

jelly. 
Longe    (Loin),  Roasted,  braised,   boneless,   stuf.  breast, 

gar.  w.  salad  and  jelly  around. 
Noix   (Kernel),  Nuts,  braised,  roasted  w.  natural  stock 

or  gar.  w.  salad  and  jelly. 
Ris  de  Veau     (Sweetbreads),     Braised,  moulded,  salad, 

chaud-froid,  dec.  gar.  w.  jely  around. 
Tendrons  (Gristle),  Boneless,  braised  gar.  w.  vege.  and 

jelly. 

LAMB  AND   MUTTON— Agneau   et  Mouton 

Carre  (Rack),  Braised,  roasted,  glazed  w.  meat  glace, 
gar.  w.  fancy  vege.  in  bouquet  or  salad  w.  jelly 
around. 

—  .234  — 


COLD   MEAT 


Cotelette  (Chops).  Trimmed  in  Bellevue,  taragon, 
Mazagran,  aspic,  chaud-froid,  gar.  w.  salad  and  jelly 
around. 

Gigot  et  Selle  (Leg  and  Saddle),  Gar.  same  Carre  or 
Rack. 

Tongue   (Tongue),  In  aspic,  gar.  w.  salad  or  pickled. 

PORK—Porc 

Carre   (Rack),  Braised,  roasted,  gar.  w.  salad  and  jelly. 
Cotes    (Chops),    In    Bellevue,   dec.   and   jelly. 


Ham  Mandoline  Shape 


Filet  or   Longe    (Loin),   Braised,  roasted,   gar.   w.   salad 

and  jelly. 
Jambon    (Ham),     Glazed,  dec.  mandoline  shape,     aspic, 

mousse,  mousseiine,   parfait,  pie,  on  artistic  pedestal 

w.  jelly  around. 

—  235  — 


GAN  GEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

CHICKEN,   DUCKS,   PIGEONS,   ETC. 

Volaille,   Canards,    Pigeons,    Etc. 

Aspic  or  Bellevue,  In  mould  surrounded  w.  jelly,  dec. 
Chaud-froid,  Cooked,  cov.  chaud-froid  dec.  gar.  w.  jelly. 
Galantine,  Gov.  ch.  froid  sa.  decorated,  jelly  around. 
Medaillon,  Cooked,  breast  cut  in  medaillon  shape,  stuf. 

w.  foi-gr.  cov.  ch-froid,  dec.  acocrding  to  article. 
Pate,  "Pie"  or  tureen,  fil.  w.  jelly. 
Supreme,     "Breast"      plain,     stuf.    w.    foi-g.    or   fo-meat 

mousseline,  dec.   cov.   chaud-froid   sa.,   dec.   according 

to  sfyle. 

GAME— Gibier 

Sam.»  preparation  as  for  chicken,  aspic,  mousse,  pie, 
supreme,  etc.,  with  jelly. 


Goose  Liver  Pie    (Strasbourg   style) 

GOOSE  LIVER— Foie-Gras 

In  asuc,  mousse,  pate  de  Strasbourg,  timbale,  tureen, 
on  cerises,  parfait,  apples  on  pedestal,  dec.  gar.  w.  jelly. 

—  236  — 


LIGHTS- 


FISH    AND   CRUSTACEANS — Poisson    et  Crustaces 

All   fish   or   crustaceans,   aspic,   pie,   salad,   lobster,   sal- 
mon, eel,  crawfish,  etc.,  according  to  style. 


Decorated  Fish 

LIGHTS  (Abatis  de  Boucherie 

In  butcher  terms  the  lights  are  composed  of:  head, 
ears,  brains,  tongue,  sweetbreads,  liver,  kidneys,  -heart, 
lungs,  haslets,  fry,  feet,  palate,  snout,  tail  and  udder.  All 
of  these  lights  when  well  prepared  are  considered  very 
succulent  and  nourishing.  They  can  be  found  at  all 
butchers. 

BRAINS   AND   SPINAL    MARROW 
Cervelies   et  Amourettes 

Brains  have  no  sapidity,  as  they  contain  a  large  pro- 
portion of  albumine.  Soak  in  water  and  take  off  the 
thin  skin  Avhich  surrounds  them,  wash  well  in  several 
different  waters. 

Cook  in  water  with  a  little  lemon  or  vinegar,  season 
highly.  If  to  be  eaten  immediately,  cook  20  to  30  min- 
utes. Otherwise,  cook  one  hour  and  let  stand  in  their 
stock.  Spinal  marrow  is  a  continuation  of  the  brain 
and  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  brains  and  is 
used  mostly  for  garnishings.  Following  are  40  recipes 
for  preparation. 

Atteraux,  In  skewer,  cov.  Villeroy  sa.,  breaded  English 

style,   fried,  divers  sa. 
Beaumont,   Sliced   cov.   w.   foi-g.   pu.   and   truf.   between 

puff  paste   (rissole  style),  truf.  sa.,  baked  or  fried. 

997  


G  AN  GEL'S      GULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Beurre   Noir,     Split,  sea.  capers,  cov.   black     butter  w. 

vinegar  in  pan,  chopped  parsley. 
Bouchees   (Patties),   Gut  in  dice,  mu.   truf.,  thi.  All.  or 

cream  sa. 

Bourguignonne,  Sliced,  Bourguignonne  sa.  w.   salt  pork 
cut   in   dice,   saute   mu.   and   glazed   onions. 

Caisses,  Case  or  crustade,  sliced  or  in  dice,  thi.  w.  sa. 
according  to  article. 

Coquille,  In  shell  border  of  duchesse  pot,  sliced  w.   sa. 
according  to  article. 

Cromesquls,  "Polish  croq."  brains  rolled  in  pancake  or 
in  caul.,  dipped  in  frying  batter,  fried,  divers  sa. 

Croquettes,  Salpicon  of  brains  (See  heading  of  cro- 
quettes). 

Ecossaise,  Surround  mould  w.  pancake  and  for-meat  fil. 
w.  brains  salpicon,  Ecossaise  sa. 

Frite,  Fried  plain,  breaded  English  style,  cov.  Villeroy 
sa.,  etc.,  gar.  and  sa.  optional. 

Fritot,  Brains  pickled  w.  lemon,  sea.  dipped  in  frying 
batter  and  fried,  torn.  sa. 

Gratine  (Gratin,  Brains,  cov.  Italienne  sa.,  gar.  w.  ri- 
sotto. 

Grille   (Broiled),  Breaded  w.  butter  divers  butter  or  sa. 

Italienne,  Sliced,  cov.  w.  Italienne  sa.,  gar.  w.  risotto. 

Marechale,  Sliced  breaded  w.  butter  or  English  style, 
gar.  asp.  tips. 

Marinade,  Pickled  divers  styles,  breaded  or  in  batter, 
etc.,  and   fried  according  to  your   choice. 

Matelotte  (See  Bourguignonne),  Matelote  name  used 
only  for  fish. 

Mayonnaise,  Gold,  sliced,  cov.  w.  may.  sa.,  gar.  w.  shred- 
ded lettuce,  dec.  on  top  hard  boiled  egg,  capers,  fi- 
herbs. 

Mazagran,  Bordered  w.  Duchesse  pot.  sliced  mu-  and 
w.  nut,  sausages  around,  tom.  sa. 

Meuniere,  Sliced,  fried  in  butter,  cov.  Meuniere  butter, 
fi-herbs. 

Montrouge,  Sliced,  cov.  w.  mu.  pu.  on  tartelet  fil.  w. 
sliced  mu.   thi.   ere.   sa.   cov.   Mornay,   glazed. 

—  238  — 


LIGHTS 

Mousse  et  Mousseline,  Mixed  calf's  brain,  pu.  w.  custard 
and  cream,  poa.  bain-marie  (See  Royal  for  soup  or 
fo-meat).     Served  w.  white  sa.  all.  sup.,  etc. 

Napolitaine,  In  timbale  or  paste,  sliced  w.  macaroni  tht 
w.  torn.  sa.  or  sliced,  saute  w.  macaroni  Napolitaine. 

Pain  (Brained  Loaf,  old  name).  See  Force-Meat,  div- 
ers sauces. 

Parisienne,  In  shell  bordered  w.  Duchesse  pot.  sliced 
w.  truf.  and  mu.  thi.  All.  sa.  glazed. 

Poulette,  Sliced  and  Poulette  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and 
€hives. 

Rambouillet,  Cut  in  quarters  Poulette  sa.  w.  mu.  head, 
small    onions,    chives    and    fi-herbs. 

Ravigote,  Sliced  fried  w.  hot  ravigote  sa.  or  cold,  co. 
w.  cold  ravigote  sa. 

Ravioli,  Composition  chopped  spinach  w.  brains,  divers 
styles,  sea.  between  raviole  paste,  poa.,  torn.  sa.  gra- 
tin. 

Rissoles,  Salpicon  between  puff  paste,  fried  or  baked. 

St.  Menehould,  Sliced,  enveloped  w.  Villeroy  sa.  in 
caul.,  breaded  w.  butter,  broiled,  piquante  sa. 

Soufflee    (See  Farce  Force-Meat). 

Subrics,  Brain  salpicon  w.  raw  egg,  same  omelette,  and 
thi.  All.  sa.,  fried  in  pan  w.  butter,  turn  over,  torn.  sa. 
over,  torn.  sa. 

Timbale,  In  crust,  sliced  w.  divers  sa.  or  force-meat. 
)S'ee  Force-meat). 

rosea.  Sliced  w.  macaroni,  crawfish  tails,  thi.  w.  craw- 
fish  cullis  and  cheese,   served  in  crust. 

s/ol-au-Vent,  Served  in  large  patties  shell  gar.  and  sa. 
optional- 

A^ilson,  Sliced  fried  w.  butter  on  sliced  fried  ham.,  fried 
tomatoes  on  top,  Colbert  sa.  around. 

^ingara,  Fried  w.  butter  on  sliced  ham,  cov.  Zingara  sa. 

EARS— Oreilles 

The  ears  of  pig  and  veal  are  mostly  used  in  alimen- 
ation.  The  ears  of  veal  are  always  scalded  with  the 
lead.  When  cooked,  cut  in  such  a  manner  as  to  leave 
,  base  large  enough  for  the  ears  to  stand  up.  Pigs' 
ars  can  be  bought  already  cooked  at  the  butchers. 

—  239  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Braise  (Braised),  Plain  or  stuf.  gar.  and  sa.  according 
to   article.     Financiere,  mu.   truf.   etc. 

Diable,  Boiled  or  braised,  cut  in  two,  cov.  deviled,  but- 
ter, breaded,  boiled,  devil  sauce. 

Farcis  (Stuffed),  Divers  styles;  braised  gar.  and  sa. 
facultative. 

Frites  (Braised),  Pickled,  cut  in  quarters;  fried  in 
butter  or  breaded  English  style;   divers  sa. 

Grille  (Broiled),  Braised  sliced  in  two,  breaded  w. 
butter;   deviled  sa.  piquante,  etc.  or  Cold  s. 

Sauce  and  Garniture,  Used  for  beef,  financiere,  mu.  tou- 
lousaine,   etc.   when   braised. 


Braised  Veal  Ears  Financiere 

FEET— Pieds 

All  feet  of  animals  employed  in  alimentation  are  ed- 
ible. When  they  are  well  prepared  they  make  a  delici- 
ous food.  The  feet  of  pig,  muttcn  and  veal  contain  a 
large  substance  of  gelatine  and  are  given  to  invalids 
and  convalescents.  In  cooking,  do  not  forget  that  they  \ 
should  be  highly  seasoned.  Scald  well,  take  out  the 
bones  and  cook  white  or  braised  according  to  style. 

Blanquette,    Cooked,    All.    sa.    w.    mu.    onions,    fi-herbs. 
Custine,  Cooked,  cut  in  dice    w.  mu-  and  tongue,  reduce 

w.  mad.  sa.  when  cold,  breaded  or  in  caul,  fried. 
Diab'le,     Cooked   cov.   Diable     butter,     crumbs,     boilea. 

Deviled  sa.  or  another  sa. 
Farcis,     Cooked  stuf.  w.  divers  stuf.  in     caul.,  broiled, 

divers  sa. 

—  240  — 


LIGHTS 

Frit,    Cooked    cov.    Villeroy    sa.    breaded    English    style, 

fried,  sa.  optional. 
Grilles,   Cooked,   broiled,   plain   or   deviled,   tartare    sa.; 

deviled   or   Robert   sa.   optional. 
Marinade,    Cooked,    pickled    for    salad,    relishes,    etc 
Paquets  or  Marseillaise,   Braised  w.  lamb,  tripe  and  feet, 

in  earthen  pot  w.  vege.  and  white  wine,  sea. 
Poulette,  Split  in  Poulette  sa.  fi-her. 
Rouennaise,  Braised,  boneless  stuf.  w.  fo-meat  sausage 

^r.  onions,  fi-herbs  and  brandj^  cider,  rolled  in  caul., 

when   cold,   breaded   and   broiled. 
St.  Menehould,  Same  Grille,  butter  or  divers  sa. 
Salade,  Cooked  boneless,  sliced  for  salad  w.  onions,  fi- 
ber.,  crushed  pepper,  oil  and  vinegar, 
Tyroiienne,   Braised  w.   chopped   onions,   pounded   tom., 

garlic,  sea.  fi-her. 
Vinaigrette,  Boiled,  vinaigrette  sa. 

FRIES — Animelles 

Fries  are  composed  of  glands  taken  from  male  anim- 
als, principally  the  ram.  In  ancient  times  fries  were 
given  to  children,  invalids  and  old  people.  They  are 
served  saute,  fried  or  poached  like  brains.  They  are 
used  for  different  garnishings  ,and  can  also  be  served 
the  same  as  brains  or  kidneys. 

Attereaux,  Cut  in  squares  on  skewer  cov.  Villeroy  sa., 
breaded   English   style,   fried,   sa.   optional. 

Basque,  Saute  w.  shredded  onions,  gre.  and  sweet  pep., 
thi    tom.   and  garlic   on   rice   border. 

Bouchees  (Fatties),  Cut  in  dice  w.  mu.  truf.,  thi.  All.  sa. 

Chivry,  Pickled,  saute  chivry  sa.  w.  taragon  and  fi- 
her. 

Duval,  Border  w.  Duchesse  pot.  saute  w.  Mornay  sa., 
glazed. 

Frits.  Breaded  English  style  or  cov.  Villeroy  sa.  and 
breaded  divers  sa. 

Gourmet,  Saute  sea.  meat  glace,  lemon  juice,  cayenne 
pepper  and  butter,  fi-her.  or  Gourmet  sa. 

Italienne,  Pickled,  breaded  w.  corn  meal,  fried  in  oil, 
Italienne  sa.  w.  divers  paste. 

—  241  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


La  Chapel le,  In  skewer  w.  beef  palate,  broiled,  Colbert 

sa. 
Poulette,  Sliced  or  cut  in  two,  Poulette  sa. 
Ratisbonne,  Sliced  saute  w.  cooked  celery,  poivrade  sa., 

fi-her. 
Saute,  Fried  w.  butter  gar.  and  sa.  acorcding  to  article, 

w.  mu.  truf.,  fi-her.,  etc. 

HASLETS   or   MESENTERY— Fraise 

Haslets  are  called  the  mesentery  of  veal  or  lamb. 
They  make  a  very  fine  savory  dish  with  the  fraise.  The 
Scotch  make  it  with  lamb,  their  national  dish  (the 
Haggis).     The  mesentery  must  be  served  very  hot. 

Bouillie  (Boiled),  Same  style  used  for  calf's  head,  vin- 
aigrette sa. 

Frit  (Fried),  Cut  after  cooked,  breaded  English  style, 
Bordelaise  sa.  or  cold  sa. 

Haggis  (Scotch  pudding),  Chop,  sea.  w.  oatmeal  in  ca.s- 
ing  sausage;  boiled. 

Lyonnalse,  Cooked,  cut,  saute  w.  shredded  onions,  sea. 
fi-her. 

Poulette,  Boiled,  in  Poulette  sauce. 

Vinaigrette,  Boiled,  Vinaigrette  or  Ravigote   sa. 

HEADS— Tetes 

The  heads  of  pig,  wild  boar,  veal  and  mutton  are 
used  frequently  in  cooking.  Choose  a  head  of  veal  that 
is  white  and  fat,  take  out  the  bones,  soak  well  and 
scald;  cook  in  white  stock  with  a  juice  of  lemon,  season 
highly,  cut  in  two  or  in  small  pieces,  let  boil  well.  The 
brains  shoud  be  cooked  separately.  The  head  of  pig 
is  generally  salted  or  smoked  and  is  cooked  the  same 
as  ham. 

Anglaise,  Whole  or  split,  boiled  gar.  w.  salt  pork,  par- 
sley sa. 

Bourgeuil,  Cut  in  squares,  in  mad.  sa.  w.  mu.  truf.,  gar. 
w.    Custine   feet. 

Chesse,    Cold    salted    pig,  cut  in  squares,  sea.  w.  stock 

—  242  — 


L  I  G  H  T  S' 

Colbert,  Cut  in  squares,  breaded  English  style,  fried, 
Colbert  sa. 

Corbeil,  Cut  in  squares,  Bercy  sa.  w.  sliced  mu. 

Farcis,  Cut  round,  stuf.,  divers  styles,  gar.  and  sa. 
optional. 

Fiamande  (Flamish  style),  Rolled  w.  tongue  in  center, 
cooked,  served  cold  sliced  cov.  w.  tartare  sa.  w.  mixed 
chopped  calf's  brain. 

Financiere,  In  squares    (See  Sweetbreads  Financiere). 

F rites,  Cut  round,  pickled,  lemon  and  oil,  frying  bat- 
ter and  fried  or  breaded  English  style;   cold  sa. 


Calf's    Head 


Fritots,  Pickled,  dipped  in  batter  and  fried,   divers  sa. 
Godard,  Cut  in  squares,  gar.  Godard   (See  Beef). 
Grand'mere,  Boiled,  cov.  Vinaigrette  sa.  w.   calf  s  brain 
pu. 

Huile  (In  oil),  French  style,  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pep- 
per, chopped  onions,  parsley,  separately. 

Moderne,  Cut  round,  mad.  sa.  w.  sliced  mu.  and  truf. 

Montpensier,  In  squares,  cov.  mixed  Bearnaise  sa.  w. 
All.  sa. 

Poulette,  In  small  squares,  Poulette  sa.,  fi-her. 

Pressee,    same    chesse,    pressed. 

Ravigotte,  In  squares,  hot  or  cold,  Ravigote  sa.- 

—  243  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Renaissance,  In  squares,  mad.  sa.  w.  mu.,  truf.,  cock's 
combs  and  kidneys,  qiien.   crawfish  crust. 

Sauce,  Gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 

Tortilliere,  Tortue  sa.  w.  Zingara  sa.,  add  lemon  peel  in 
Jul.  gar.  w.  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  four,  crust. 

Tortue,  Turtle  style,  same  gar.  Renaissance  w.  tortue  sa. 

Valois,  Cov.  w.  Valoise  sa.  w.  shrimp  butter  and 
shrimps. 

Vinaigrette,  Boiled,  vinaigrette  sauce. 

HEARTS— Cceurs 

The  hearts  of  beef,  veal,  mutton  and  lamb  are  pre- 
pared like  other  meats  such  as:  saute,  broiled,  braised 
and  stuffed.  They  are  served  with  vegetables  or  differ- 
ent sauces  and  purees. 

Bourgeoise,  Braised  w.  gar.  bourgeoise   (See  Beef). 
Bourguignonne,  Braised  w.  red  wine,  gar.  w.  salt  pork, 

mu.  and  glazed  small  onions. 
Braise,    "Braised"    or    stuffed,    gar.    and    sa.    optional. 
Grille  (Broiled),  Sliced,  sea.  w.  butter  or  sa. 
Saute,  Sliced  fried  quickly  w.  mu.,  fi-her. 
Stew,  Cut  in  squares  saute  w.  brown  sa.,  mu.,  onions  or 

vegetables. 

KIDNEYS— Rognons 

All  kidneys  of  quadrupeds  are  edible.  Pig,  veal  and 
Iamb  are  preferred.  Veal  kidneys  include  the  meat 
surrounding  them.  The  gravy  of  kidneys  should  never 
be  cooked  in  the  same  sauce  pan  where  the  kidneys 
have  been  fried.  Kidneys  contain  the  taste  of  "sui  gen- 
eris"; they  should  be  drained,  then  fried  and  put  into 
the  gravy  which  should  be  prepared  in  advance.  Veal 
kidneys  can  be  prepared  this  way,  by  cutting  them  care- 
fully and  taking  out  the  center  nerve  which  is  always 
impregnated  with  alkali. 
Amiral,  Broiled   or  saute,  gar.  w.  cock's  kidneys,  truf., 

mad.  sa. 
Bercy,  Broiled  or  saute  w.  Bercy  butter  on  toast. 
Berichonne,   Saute  w.   salt  pork,   sliced   mu.   Bordelaise 

sa.  or  broiled  cepes  and  marrow. 

—  244  — 


LIGHTS 

Bordelaise,  Saute  w.  cepes  Bordelaise  or  Bordelaise  sa. 

w.  marrow. 
Bourguignonne,   Saute  w.   salt  pork,  mu.  glazed  onions, 

Bourguignonne  sa. 
Brochette,  Split  and  broiled  on  skewer  w.  Maitre  d'Ho- 

tel  butter,  gar.  facultative  or  thi.  sliced  on  skewer  be- 
tween salt  pork  and  mu.  breaded  w.  butter  and  broiled. 

Gar.   and   sa.   optional. 
Carvalho,  Split  in  two;   saute  on  toast,  mu.  and  truf.  on 

top,  mad.  sa.,  buttered. 
Casserole  or  Cocotte,  Generally  veal  kidney,  vv.  fat  gar. 

and  sa.    (Cooked  in   earthen   pot). 
Champignon,  Sliced  w.  mu.,  mad.  sa. 
Chasseur    (Hunter  style).   Saute  w.   Chasseur  sa. 
Chateaubriand,  Broiled,  Chateau  sa.,  gar.  w.  Chateau  pot. 
Chipolata,   Whole   or   sliced   gar.   Chipolata    (See   Beef). 
Creole,  Saute  or  split  in  two,  Creole  sa.  or  Creole  rice. 
Croute,  Saute,  gar.  and  sa.  served  in  crustade. 
Curry,  Saute  in  border  of  rice  w.  curry,  thi.  curry  sa. 
Espagnole    (Spanish   style).   Sliced,     broiled   on   broiled 

sliced   torn.   Maitre   d'Hotel   butter   w.    sweet    peppers 

gar.  w.  French  fried  onions  around. 
Fines   Herbes,  Saute  w.  shallots,  moisten  w.  wh.  wine, 

fi-her. 
Gratin,  Split,  saute  w.  fo-meat  and  Duxelle  mixed,  mu. 
head  on  top.     Cov.  Italienne  sa.,  baked. 
Grille,  Open  on  skewer,  broiled,  divers  butter  or  sa. 
Henri  IV,  Broiled  on  toast  w.  sliced  ham,  Bearnaise  sa. 

gar.  w.  Faille  pot.  and  watercress. 
Hongroise,  Sliced  saute  w.  chopped  onions  and  paprika 

sa.  on  border  of  rice. 
Hussarde,  Cut  in  dice,  saute,  in  border  of  Duchesse  pot., 

Hussarde  sa. 
Liegeoise,   In    earthen    pan   w.    juniper    berries,    burned 

brandy,  veal  gravy. 
Michel,   Cut   in  tw^o,   saute,   w.   foi-g.   and   truf.,  in   dice, 

on  choucroute,  mad.  sa. 
Milanaise,  Saute,  sliced  or  in  dice  w.  risotto  Milanaise, 

macaroni  or  spaghetti  Milanaise,  torn.  sa. 
Montpensier,  Cut  in  two  w.  fat.,  isaute,  moisten  w.  white 

wine,  meat  glace  buttered  gar.  w.  asp.  tips  and  truf. 

—  245  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Papillote,  Cut  in  two,  saute,  w,  ham  and  Duxelle  in 
paper  casing,  baked. 

Piemontaise,  Cut  in  two,  saute  w.  mad.  sa.  and  torn, 
on  rice  border  Piemontaise. 

Portugaise,  Sliced,  saute  w.  Portugaise  sa.  or  broiled 
on  half   stuffed  torn.,   Partugaise   sa. 

President,  Broiled  on  sliced  foi-g.,  truf.   sa. 

Risotto,  Saute  in  border  of  divers  risotto  or  sliced  saute 
on   risotto,   cov.   Mornay   sa.   glazed. 

Turbans,  Cut  in  two,  saute  on  fo-meat  border,  gar.  and 
sa.  acocrding  to  article. 

Turbigo,  Cut  in  two,  gar.  w.  mu.  head,  truf.,  nut  saus- 
ages w.  mad.  sa.  and  tom. 

Vert-pre,  Split,  broiled  gar.  Paille  pot.,  watercress, 
beurre  vert. 

Vieville,  Cut  in  two,  saute,  small  onions,  mu.,  nut  saus- 
ages, mad.  sa. 

Vins,  All  wines.  Champagne,  White,  Red,  Mad.,  Port, 
thi.  w.  sa.  according  to  article 

LIVER    (Pole) 

There  are  four  different  kinds  of  liver— veal,  goose, 
chicken  and  fish.  Veal  liver  is  prepared  in  a  great 
many  styles,  but  the  simplest  way  is  the  best.  For 
other  livers,  see  special  article.  Those  of  lamb  and 
beef  are  eaten  a  great  deal,  but  they  are  more  dry. 

Americaine,  Broiled  w.  bacon,  butter. 

Anglaise,  Fried  w.  bacon,     Worcestershire   sa.,     brown 

butter. 
Bercy,  Fried  or  broiled  w.  Bercy  butter. 
Bernard!,   Saute  w.  ;salt  pork  cov.  Bordelaise   sa. 
Bourgeoise,  Whole  liver  braised,  gar.  veg-e.   (See  Beef). 
iBordelaise,  AVhole  liver,  larded,  pickled  w.  wh.  wine. 

enveloped  in  caul.  w.  chopped  shallots,  cepes,  fry  in 

butter.     Braised,  gar.  w.  cepes  saute,  gravy. 
Brochette,  In  small  squares  on  skewer  w.  salt  pork,  mu. 

Broiled,  divers  sa. 
CFiasseur  (Hunter  style).  Sliced  saute  w.  Chasesur  sa. 

—  246  — 


LIGHTS" 

Espagnole  (Spanish),  Broiled  w.  broiled  torn,  and  ham 
gar.  w.  French  fried  onions  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter  w. 
pimientos. 

Farce,  See  Force-meat,  Foie  de  veau,  for  quen.  or  loaf. 

Farcis  (Stuffed),  Whole,  lightly  cooked,  open  case 
shape,  stuffed  dievrs  styles,  braised,  gar.  and  sa.  ac- 
cording to  article. 

Flamande  (Flemish),  Braised  in  tureen,  sliced  when 
cold. 

Italienne,  Fried  in  oil,  cov.  Italienne  sa. 

Lyonnaise,  Saute  w.  shredded  onions,  thi.  gravy. 

Moissonneuse  (Harvest  woman),  Cut  in  big  dice,  saute 
w.  butter,  sprinkle  flour,  moisten  w.  red  wine  and 
stock,  garlic  if  desired,  gar.  around  fried  onions  in 
oil,    sliced   boiled   pot.    fi-her. 

Provengale,  Saute,  w.  pounded  tom.,  shallots,  garlic,  fi- 
her.  or  Provengale  sa. 

Quenelles,  Divers  styles  (See  Foie-gras  force-meat)  or 
Viennoise,  1  lb.  liver,  1/2  lb.  crumbs,  2  ounces  flour,  3 
eggs,  5  yolks,  salt,  pepper,  fried  chopped  onions,  pars- 
ley, poached  in  hot  water,  butter  w.  fried  crust  or 
crumbs  on  top. 

Raisins,  Braised  w.  aigre-doux   sa.   w.  raisins. 

Risotto,  Cut  in  dice,  saute  fil.  risotto  border,  cov.  Mor- 
nay  sa.,  glazed. 

Souffle  (See  Farce),  or  1  lb.  liver,  1  ounce  butter,  2 
gills,  thi.  Bechamel  sa.,  3  egg  yolks,  i/^  gill  cream, 
sea.  3  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  in  souffle  pan  or 
cassolette. 

Sous-la-Cendre,  Larded  same  beef  a  la  mode,  braised  V2 
hour,  when  cold  covered  w.  duxelles,  cov.  larding 
pork,  envelope  in  common  dough  w.  chimney  on  top, 
baked  for  21/^   hours,  fil.  mad.  sa.  last  moment. 

LUNGS— Mou 

The  epicure  does  not  think  much  of  the  lungs.  Those 
3f  lamb,  pig  and  veal  with  the  heart  and  the  liver  are 
employed  and  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  style  as 
ragout  or  stew. 

—  247  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bouillon,  1  lung  of  veal,  3  q.uarts  water,  pinch  of  salt, 

gar.  w.  vege.  leek  dominating,  reduce  half   (strained 
for  invalids). 
Bordelaise,  Cut  in  squares,  fry  brown,  sprinkle  w.  flour, 

moisten  w.  red  wine,  onions,  gar.,  sea. 
Civet  (Jugged  Hare  style),  Bourguignonne  sa..  Matelote, 

etc. 
Paysanne,  Cut  in  squares,  brown  stew  w.  salt  pork,  pot. 

cut  in  squares,  gre.  peas. 
Saute,  Cut  in  squares,  saute  w.  shallots,  garlic,  fi-her. 
Sirop,  Same  bouillon,  no  salt,  1  ounce  sugar  to  l^.^  qt. 

clarified,  strained  (for  invalids). 
Tripiere,  Same  Bordelaise  w.  pot.  and  onions. 

MARROW— Moeile 

Marrow  is  a  fat  substance  found  in  the  interior  of  the 
bones;  it  is  employed  in  different  culinary  preparations, 
either  for  garnishings  or  seasonings.  Marrow  of 
beef  is  generally  used. 

Bouillie,  Both  ends  closed  w.  paste  and  poached  20  min- 
utes,  served   on   toast. 

Garniture,  After  poached,  sliced  or  in  dice,  according  to 
article. 

Grille,  Broiled,  both  ends  closed  in  paste,  broiled.  Served 
on  toast. 

Tait's,  Canapes  of  marrow,  browned,  cov.  w.   caviar. 

PALATE   AND    SNOUTS— Palais    et    Museau 

The  palate  of  beef  and  lamb  is  preferable.  Scald  and 
take  the  skin  off.  Braise  white  until  thoroughly  cooked. 

The  snout  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  and  can 
be  made  into  a  salad,  or  prepared  with  brown  sauce  if 
desired. 

Atteraux,  See  Sweetbreads  for  preparation.     Palate  gar. 

and  sa.  facultative. 
Bordelaise,  Braised  or  broiled,  sliced  w.  Bordelaise  sa., 

palate  or  isnouts. 
Danoise,    Braised,      cut    in    large    squares,      breaded    w. 

butter,  broiled,  Remoulade  sa.  palate. 

—  248  — 


L  I  G  H  T  S 

Diable,  Deviled,  braised,  cov.  deviled  butter,  broiled, 
deviled  sa.,  palate  and  snouts. 

Diverse,  Boiled  or  braised,  palate  used  for  brochette, 
cromesQuis,  croquette,  garnishing,  Paupiette,  Pays- 
anne,  Poulette,  salad,  etc..  gar.  and  sa.  according  to 
article.     Snouts  are  only  good  for  salads  or  pickled. 

SWEETBREADS— Ris  de  Veau 

Sweetbreads  are  considered  a  delicate  aliment  and 
consequently  are  expensive.  Sweetbreads  of  lamb  and 
veal  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner.  Soak  in  fresh 
water  six  hours,  cook  and  whiten  5  minutes.  When 
cold  remove   the   thick   skin  and  nerves,   pres)S   lightly. 


-.^* 


Laixled  Sweetbreads  w.  peas 

Lard  with  pork,  truffles  or  tongue,  or  stud  with  truf- 
fles according  to  desire.  Put  aromatics  in  saucepan 
with  vegetables  and  sweetbreads  on  top,  sweat,  moisten 
with  stock,  braise  white  or  glaze.  Sweetbreads  that 
are  braised  white  are  put  in  round  or  oval  circles 
according  to  desire.  When  cold  trim.  The  trimmings 
are  used  for  salpicon  and  stuffing  on  top.  Following 
are  200  recipes  for  sweetbreads;  one  may  add  a  great 
many   different   garnishings   of  beef  or   lamb. 

Abbreviations:     AM.,  Allemande;    art,  artichoke;    asp. 
tips;   cov.,  covered;   ere.,  cream;   cro.,  croquettes;   crus., 


249  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

crustade;  dec,  decorated;  foi-g.,  foie-gras;  fo-meat,  force 
meat;  gar.,  garnish;  gr.  pep,,  green  peppers;  Hoi.,  Hol- 
landaise;  jul.,  julienne;  mad.,  madeira;  mu.,  mush- 
rooms; pot.,  potatoes;  pu.,  puree;  quen.,  quenelles;  sa., 
sauce;  saipi.,  salpicon;  stuf.,  stuffed;  sea.,  seasoned; 
sw.  br.,  sweetbreads;  sw.  pep.,  sweet  peppers;  thi., 
thickened;  torn.,  tomatoes;  truf.,  truffles;  vege.,  vege- 
tables;  w.,  with;   wh.  white. 

Aiglon,   Braised   in   crus.   fil.   w.   mu.   pu.,    Supreme   sa., 

eagle  made  of  truf.  on  top. 
Allemande,  Larded,  braised,  gar.  w.  cucumbers  and  mu., 

All.  sa. 
Anglaise,  S'plit,  stuf.  w.  duxelles,  breaded  English  style, 

fried,  parsley  sa.  or  cream  sa.  w.  mu. 
Arlequin,      Stuf.   w.    salpi.    cov.   fo-meat,     dec.   Arlequin 

sa. 
Aspic,    Dec.    mould,    surrounded   w.    jelly,    braised,    cold 

cov.  chaud-froid  sa.,  fil.  w.  jelly. 
Attereaux,  Cut  w.  mu.  and  truf.  on  skewer,  cov.  Ville- 

roy  sa.,  breaded  English  style,  fried,  truf.  sa. 
Badoise,  In  crus.  fil.  w.  noodles  and  ham  sliced  w.  truf., 

mu.  que.,  thick  mad.  sa. 
Bayonne,  Stuf.  w.  pu.  of  ham,  cov.  w.  ham  fo-meat,  dec, 

w.  white  of  egg  and  truf.,  mad.  sa. 
Beauharnais,  Stuf.  w.  duxelle  cov.  w.  sweet  pep.,  Foyot 

sa.,  gar.  w.  fried  artichoke  cut  in  four. 
Beignets    (Fritters),    Sliced,    cov.    Villeroy    sa.,    breaded 

English  style,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Berenger,  Sliced,  in  border  fo-meat,  mousseline  w.  chop- 
ped tongue,  center  gar.  fil.  w.  pu.  of  peas  w.  Soubise, 

sliced  truf.  on  top,  thi.  gravy  around. 
Billancourt,  Stuf.  w.  salp.   cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  large  star 

made  of  tongue,  gar.  w.  stuf.  tom.,  mad.  sa. 
Bonne-fern  me,  In   cocotte,  gar.  Matignon,  braised,  thick 

gravy.     See  "Matignon." 
Bonne    Maman,  Braised  in  casserole  w.  jul.  of  carrots, 

celery,  onions,  mu.,  thi.  gravy. 
Bouchees  (Patties),  Gar.  w.  sw.  br.  salpicon;  Financiere, 

Toulouse,  etc.     See  Patties, 

—  250  — 


LIGHTS 

Bordelaise,  Broiled,  gar.  w.  cepes  or  mu.,  Bordelaise  sa. 
Braise,  Braised,  larded,  studded,  glazed,  etc.,  gar.  and  sa. 

acocrding  to  article. 
Broche,  a   la,  Larded   on   spit  and  roasted.    Dives   gar. 

and  sa. 
Brochette,    In    skewer   w.    salt    pork,    mu.,      breaded    w. 

butter,    broiled,   gar.   and   sa.   optional. 
Bussy,    Stuf.   w.   salpi.   cov.   fo-meat,   sprinkled   w.   truf.. 

Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Caisses,  Larded,  braised,  in  case,  or  sliced,  gar.  and  sa. 

according  to  article. 
Camargos,  Broiled,  on  emptied  crus.  made  w.  bun  paste, 

fil.  w.  Vichy  carrots  and  gr.  peas,  bacon  on  top. 
Casserolette,  Larded,  braised  or  sliced,  gar.  and  sa.  fa- 
cultative. 
Castillane,  Braised,  gar.  w.  stuf.  gre.  and  sw.  pep.,  mu. 

torn.  w.  duxelles,  Castillane  sa. 
CavaiNon,  Larded,  braised,  gar.  w.  cucumber,  thi.  ci-eam. 
Cenevole,  Braised,  on  toasted  rye  bread,  gar.  w.  glazed 

onions,  braised  chestnuts,  mad.  sa. 
Chambellan,   Larded   w.   truf.   braised   on    canape,     gar. 

w.  tartelet  fo-meat,  fil.  truf.  salpi.  thin  mu.  pu.  around 

w.  Jul.  of  truf.  on  top. 
Champignon    (Mushrooms),  Larded,  braised,  sliced  gar, 

w.  mu.  brown  sa.  cream  sa.  etc.,  according  to  article. 

article. 
Chanceliere,   Stuf.  w.  ch.  pu.  breaded  English  style  on 

art.  pu.  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Chantilly,  Larded,  braised,  gar.  w.  cock's  combs  and  kid- 
neys, dec.  quen.  Chantilly  sa. 
Chartreuse,  Mould  made  w.  fancy  vege.  surrounded  w. 

fo-meat  fil.  w.  sliced  sw.  br.  gar.  and  sa.  acording  to 

article,  mad.  sa. 
Chevreuse,  Larded,  braised,  on  stuf.  tom.  fil.  w.  ch.  pu., 

mad.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Chivry,  Braised  or  broiled,  gar.  w.  dec.   quen.  and  mu. 

Chivry  sa. 
Choiseui,      Stuf.   w.    duxelle    w.    truf.      breaded   English 

style,  fried,  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 

—  251  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Cing  Clous,  Studded  w.  five  large  truf.  braised,  gar.  w. 
cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  truf.  mu.,  dec.  quen., 
Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 

Clamart,  Broiled,  braised,  saute,  gar.   w.  peas  Clamart. 

Cloute,  Studded  w.  truf.  or  tongue,  braised,  divers 
styles. 

Cocotte  or  Casserole,  Braised,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to 
article. 

Columbus,  Braised,  on  sliced  foi-g.  gar.  w.  quen.,  gre. 
red  and  white,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  Colbert  sa. 

Comtesse,  Larded  w.  truf.,  braised,  gar.  w.  dec.  quen., 
timbale  of  lettuce,  asp.  tips,  mad.  sa. 

Combination,  Sliced  saute  or  breaded  or  broiled  w. 
divers   eggs,   paprika,   poulette,   tripe,   etc.,   and  vege- 

Conde,  Braised  in  crust,  fil.  sliced  mu.  and  truf.,  mad. 
sa. 

Conti,   Studded  v%^   truf.,   braised,   gar.   w.   mu.   truf. 

Concorde,  Stuf.  w.  Montglas  salpi.,  cov.  fo-meat,  sprink- 
led w.  fried  bread  crumbs,  Bordelaise  sa. 

Coquelln,  Braised  in  crust  fil.  w.  mu.  salpi.  w.  gre.  pep. 
gar.   w.  green  peas  quen.  and  ch.  Melba  sa. 

Coteiettes,  Salpi.  chop  shape  or  sw.  br.,  fo-meat,  breaded 
English  style,  fried,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 

Coquiiies,  In  shells,  bordered  w.  Duchesse  pot.  or  fo- 
meat,  divers  styles. 

Courcelle,  Braised  in  crust  fil.  foi-gr.  pu.,  Italienne  sa. 

Couronne,  Sw.  br.  fo-meat  in  mould,  crown  shape, 
sprinkled  or  dec.  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 

Crepinette,  Salpicons  in  caul.,  broiled,  divers  gar. 

Cromesquis,  Salpi.  rolled  in  caul,  or  pancake,  in  frying 
batter,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 

Croquette,  Salpi.  divers  shapes,  breaded  English  style, 
fried,  gar.  and   sa.  according  to  name. 

Croustade,  Crustade  fil.  w.  sw.  br.  gar.  and  sa.  accord- 
ing to  article. 

Dandigne,  Stuf.  ch.  salpi.  cov.  w.  fo-meat,  large  star 
of  tongue  on  top,  gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.,  truf.  sa. 

Dandigny,  Breaded  English  style  on  mu.  pu.,  ring  of 
tongue  and  truf.  around,  mad.   sa. 

—  ?.n2  — 


y^  ;  L  I  G  H  T  S' 

Davoust,    Split   stuf.    duxelle   w.    truf.   breaded   English 

style,  fried,  gar.  w.  small  Toulouse,  thi.    All.  sa. 
Dejazet,   On   skewer  w.  veal     kidney   and   mu.    broiled, 

truf.  sa.  w.  sliced  pitted  olives. 
Demidoff,  Larding  pork  and  truf.  braised,  w.  border  ch. 

fo-meat   fil.    w.   Demidoff   gar.   in   center,   carots   and 

turnips   crescent   shape,    smothered   w.   sliced   celery, 

thi.    gravy. 
Diane,  Studded  w.  truf.  on  creamed  mu.  gar.  w.  game 

quen.  dec.  on  top  w.  crescent  shape,  Diane  sa. 
Diva,  Sliced  saute  w.  stuf.  creamed  mu.,  sliced  truf.  on 

top.  gar.  small  crust  fil.  w.  gr.  peas  and  asp.  tips. 
Dreux,     Stuf.   salpi.   w.   tongue   and     truf.   or     studded 

tongue  and  truf.,  stuf.  cov.  fo-meat  and  dec.  w.  small 

star  of  truf..   Supreme   sa.   or  braised  gar.   w.  Finan- 

ciere  (See  Beef). 
Duchesse,  Sliced  saute  on  flat  Duchesse  pot.  gar.  w.  asp. 

tips,  mu.  head,  Supreme  sa. 
Ecarlate,  Studded  w.  tongue,  braised  on  slice  of  tongue, 

tom.  sa.  or  cold  cov.  w.  chaud-froid  sa.,  dec.  w.  tongue 

on  Italienne  salad  w.  jelly  around. 
Escalope,   Thin   slices   saute,  broiled,   breaded,  fried   di- 
vers  sa.   and   gar. 
Espagnole,   Studded   w.   truf.   braised   on   risotto  w.  saf- 
fron and  sw.  pep.  gar.  w.  stuf.  mu.  and  olives  w.  s\v. 

pep.,  tom.  sa. 
Eugenie,     Braised    on    toast,    gar.      w.    mu.      w.    cream, 

cooked   under   glass   bell. 
Excelsior,    Larded,   truf.,    braised   white      gar.   w.    quen. 

mousseline  of  truf.,   tongue   and  ch.,   Supreme   sa.  w. 

S'oubise  and  Jul.  of  truf.  tongue  and  mu. 
Farcis,   All    sw.    br.    stuffed    gar.    and    sa.    according   to 

name. 
Financiere,   Larded,   braised      gar.    w.    mu.    truf,   olives, 

cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  foi-g.,  quen.  thi.  mad.  sa. 
Florentine,     On   spinach   creamed    or   branch,     braised, 

fried,  saute,  etc.  or  cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed. 
Frit,  Breaded  according  to  style.     Divers  gar.  and  sa. 
Fritot,  Pickled,  fried  in  frying  batter,  divers  sa. 
Garnis,  All   sw.   br.   garnished  w.   pu.  vege.,   etc- 

—  253  — 


v^ANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Garniture,  Very  small  sw.  br.  or  lamb  breaded,  glazed. 

used  for  garnishing  only. 
Gentilhomme,  Stuf.  truf.  salpi.  cov.  Villeroy  sa.,  breaded 

English  style,  truf.  sa. 
Gismonda,  Broiled  in  crust,  fil.  w.  sliced  mu.  truf.  and 

art.  thi.  cream  sa.,  mad.  sa.  around. 
Glace,   Glazed.     Braised  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Gourmet,  In  cassolette  fil.  w.  mu.  truf.  sliced  or  braised, 

Gourmet  sa. 
Gramont,  Braised  in  case  fil.  w.  duxelle  Italienne  sa.  w. 

truf. 
Grand  Due,  In  crust,  fil.  w.  asp.  tips,  braised,  Hongroise 

sa.  around. 
Gratine,  All.  sw.  br.  in  border,  shell  case,   etc.,  thi.  w. 

sa.  according  to  name,  baked  and  browned. 
Grille,  All.  sw.  br.,  broiled,  plain  or  breaded  w.  butter, 

on  toast,  gar.  according  to  name. 
Hongroise,  Larded,  braised,  gar.  w.   scrambled  eggs  w. 

truf.  in  center,  paprika  sa.   around. 
Isabelle,  Stuf.  w,  mu.  pu.  and  truf.,  cov.  fo-meat,  sprink- 
led w.  truf.  tongue,  pistachio,  Colbert  sa. 
Iselin,     Stuf.   w.  mu.   pu.   dec.   w.   anchor     of  gre.   pep.. 

Chivry  sa. 
Jardiniere,     Larded,    braised    gar.      w.    fancy     vege.    in 

bouquet,  thi.  gravy. 
Joselyne,   Broiled,   on   crust   made   w.   pot.   emptied,   fil. 

w.    Soubise   and   curry;    broiled,   mu.   tom.   sliced   gre. 

pep.  on  top. 
Judic,  Braised  in  emptied  tom.   fil.   w.   duxelle  w.  ham 

border   point    fo-meat,    poached,    Colbert    sa.,    gar.    w. 

braised  lettuce  and  gre.  peas. 
King,  Sliced  sw.  br.  w.  gre.  pep.  and  truf.  in  dices,  thi. 

cream   sa.   and   Bearnaise   sa.   w.    sliced   truf.   on   top. 

Or   thi.    Newburg   sa.    w.    gr.    and    sw.    pep.    and    mu.. 

sliced  truf.  on  top. 
Lausanne,  Larded,   braised  on   slice   of  tongue,   gar.   w. 

mu.  pu.,  mad.  sa. 
La   Valliere,  Braised,   gar.   w.   tartelet  fil.   w.   gre.   peas 

w.  ham  and  small  onions,  French  style.  Supreme  sa. 

w.  Soubise. 

—  254  — 


L  I  G  H  T  S' 

Legumes,  All   sw.    br.   braised,   broiled,   saute,     gar.    w. 

vege.  according  to  name,  thi.  gravy. 
Liencourt,  Braised,  gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.  mu.  pu., 

sliced  triif.,  mad.  sa. 
Landelis,  Braised,  gar.  w.  egg-plant,  saute,  Itallenne  sa. 
Macedoine,  All  sw.   br.   gar.  w.   fancy  mixed  vege.,  thi. 

gravy. 
Maltaise,     Braised,   cov.     w.    fo-meat   mousseline,     dec. 

Maltese    cross,    Bearnaise    sa.,    same    in    mould,    dec. 

cross. 
Marechale,     Braised    or    sliced,    breaded    English    style, 

fried,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips  and  sliced  truf.  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
Marie  Stuart,   Larded   w.   truf.   and   tongue,   braised,   in 

crust,  fil.  w.  celery  pu.,  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
MarsiMy,  Larded,  braised  gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w. 

gie.  peas.  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf.  in  dices. 
Maubeuge,  Braised  in  case  fil.  w.  duxelle  gar.  w.  small 

mu.  truf.,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys  around,  mad.  sa. 

sliced   thi.     All.    sa.    w.   truf.    and   mu.     in   border   of 

Duchesse  pot.  cov.  w.  Duchesse  pot.,  baked. 
Medaillon,  Sw.  br.  medallion  shape,  dec.  w.  fo-meat  and 

truf.,  poached,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Melba,   Braised   in  crus.   fil.   mu.   pu.,   mad.   sa.   w.   tom. 

and  Jul.  of  truf. 
Milanaise,    Braised,    broiled,    saute,    fried    gar.    w.    spa- 
ghetti Milanaise,  tom.  sa. 
Mirabeau,  Braised,  cold,  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  w.  taragon 

leaves  on  Russian  salad,  jelly  around. 
Mogador,     Stuf.   w.   foi-g.   cov.   fo-meat,   sprinkled   truf., 

gar.  w.  stuf.  olives,  truf.  sa. 
Monarque,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.   truf.,   art.   cut  in   four, 

foi-g.  in  dices,  dec.  quen.,  mad.  sa. 
Montauban,   Larded   truf.    and   perk,   gar.    w.   rice    croq. 

w.   tongue,   ring  of  ch.   sausage  fo-meat  w.   truf.,   mu. 

head,  Veloute  sa.  w.  mu.  essence. 
Montcalm,     Braised   whole  in  gr.   pep.   fil.     w.   duxelle, 

mad.  sa. 
Montebello,      Stuf.    w.    salpi.    w.    tongue,      cov.    fo-meat, 

sprinkled  w.  tongue,  Montebello  sa. 
Montpensier,   Braised   in  crust,   fil.   w.   mu.  pu.,   gar.   w. 

asp.  tips,  dec.  quen..  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 

—  255  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mousse  or   Mousseline    (See  Mousse  fo-meat),  gar.  and 

sa.  according  to  article. 
Nantua,  Braised,   gar.  w.   crawfish  tails,  head  of   shell 

stuf.  w.   sw.  br.  fo-meat,  Nantua  sa. 
Napolitaine,    Stuf.    w.    duxelle    w.    truf.,    breaded,    fried, 

gar.  macaroni  Napolitaine,  tom.  sa.  around. 
Nesle,  See  "Patties  Nesle." 
Noailles,  Braised  on  sliced  foi-g.  gar.  cock's  combs  and 

kidneys,  Supreme  sa. 
Nouveau   Siecle   (New  Century),  Braised  in  tureen,  fil. 

w.    sliced   foi-gr.,     sliced   niu.,   thi.   mad.    sa.     cov.   w. 

mashed  pot.  w.  foi-g.  pu.,  cov.  w.  sliver  leaf.     Baked 

few  minutes. 
Olivettes,  Braised  gar.   av.   olives  and   cucumbers,  olive 

shape;   All.  sa. 
Panier,  In  basket,  made  w.   spaghetti  gar.  w.  quen.   of 

sw.  br.  in  shape  of  pigeon's  egg;   sauce    according    to 

style. 
Panetiere,  Braised  in  emptied  round  roll  fil.  w.  creamed 

mu. 

Papi Motes,  Braised  in  paper  case  w.  duxeiles  and  sliced 

ham;   baked. 
Parisienne,  Larded  w.  truf.  and  tongue  in  crust,  fil.  mu. 

pu.,   gar.  w.  stuf.  bottom  of  art.,  Parisienne  sa. 
Pascal ine,   In  crust,   of  pot.   heart  shape,   fil.   w.   sliced 

sw.  br.  mu.  truf.,  thi.  All.  sa. 
Pellerin,   Stuf.   w.  ham  fo-meat,   dec.   on  Jerusalem  art. 

pu.,  Italienne  sa.  w.  truf. 
Perigord,  All  sw.  br.  gar.  w.  truf.  or  sa.  w.  truf. 
Piemontaiss,   Braised  on   risotto   Piemontaise,   mad.   sa. 

w.  tom. 
Pique,  Larded  w.  pork,  truf.  or  tongue;   divers  gar.  and 

sa. 
Pompadour,  Larded  w.  truf.,  braised,  gar.  w.  bottom  of 

art.  stuf.  ch.  salpi.  cov.  fo>-meat,  dec.  Pompadour  sa. 
Porto  Rico,  Stuf.  w.  duxelle,  cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  gre.  and 

sw.  pep.  on  risotto,  Mexicaine  sa. 
Portugaise,  Sliced,  saute,  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.,  stuf.  olives, 

Portugaise  sa. 
Presse,  Pressed,  sw.  br.  cooked  and  put  on  ring  before 

—  256  — 


L  I  G  H  T  & 

cold,    oval    or    round    pressed,    when    cold    trimmed, 

gar.     sa.     stuffing,     salpi.     etc.     according    to     style. 
Primeur,  Braised,  gar.  w.  very  small  fancy     vege.   thi. 

gravy. 
Princesse,   Studded  w.   truf.,  braised,  gar.   w.  asp.  tips, 

dec.  ch.  quen.,  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Quenelle,  Sw.  br.  fo-meat,  stuf.  in  mould,  sprinkled,  etc., 

sa.   optional-    (See   Farce.) 
Quillet,     Stuf.    salpi.   cov.   fo-meat,     sprinkled   w.    truf., 

Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Rachel,  Braised  on  bottom  of  art.,  gar.  marrow  fritters, 

Bordelaise  sa. 
Regence,   Studded   w.   truf.,   braised,   gar.   w.   mu.   truf., 

cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  dec.  ch.  quen.,  Regence  sa. 
Richelieu,  Stuf.  salpi.  cov.  fo-meat  star  truf.  and  tongue, 

Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Rissoles,   Sw.   br.    salpi.   between   puff   paste,     fried   or 

baked,  serve  sauce  separately. 
Romaine,   Breaded  English   style,   gar.   marrow  fritters, 

Romaine  sa. 
Rossini,  Larded  truf.,  braised  on  slice  foi-g.,  tom.  sa. 
Royale   (See   King),   Same  style  or  sliced  w.  mu.   truf., 

oysters,  crabs,  Newburg  sa. 
St.  Andre,  Stuf.  w.  salpi.  cov.  fo-meat,  dec.  cross  of  St. 

Andre  on  top,  mad.  sa. 
St.  Charles,  Larded,  braised,  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  sprinkled 

w.  truf.,  Bearnaise  sa. 
St.  Cloud,  Studded  w.  truf.  or  larded,  braised,  Supreme 

sa.  w.  mu.  and  truf. 
St.  Denis,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.,  thi.  cream,  thi.  gravy. 
St.    Fargeaux,    Larded,    braised   on   big    crus.    oval,    gar, 

w.  small  Toulouse,  crawfish  around. 
St.    Germain,   Larded,   braised,   gar.    small   St.   Germain, 

Bearnaise  sa.  separated.    (See  Beef). 
St.  Gervais,  Stuf.  salpi.  w.  tongue,  cov.  fo-meat,  sprink- 
led truf.  gar.  cepes,  saute,  tom.  sa. 
St.    Laurent,   Broiled,  Italienne   sa.,   gar.   souffle   pot. 
St.   Mande,  Braised,  gar.  w.  bottom  of  art.  fil.  w.   peas 

between  asp.  tips,  Chivry  sa. 
Salade,    Braised    white,    sliced,     composition     and     gar. 

according   to    name. 

—  257  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sarah   Bernhardt,     Braised,   gar.   stuf.   sw.     pep.   fil.  w. 

sliced  mu.,  thi.  ere.,  risotto,  mad.  sa. 
Sevigne,   S'tuf.   w.    ch.    pu.   and   foi-g.   cov.   fo-meat,   dec. 

gar.  "W.  asp.  tips,   Supreme  sa. 
Sous  Cloche    (Under  Bell)   or  Glass),  See  Eugenie  gar. 

and  sa.  according  to  name. 
Sous   la   Cendre    (Cooked   in   ashes),    studded   truf.    and 

tongue,     on   sliced   tongue     and   truf.,     enveloped  w. 

dough,  chimney  on  top,  baked.     After  50  minutes  add 

mad.  sa.  and  close. 
Suedolse,  Braised,  cold,  cov.  w.  horseradish  butter,  dec. 

on  vege.  salad,  thi.  mayonnaise,  Suedoise  sa. 
Surcouf,  Larded,  braised  gar.  small  carrots,  turnips,  art. 

in  four,  asp.  tips,  thi.  gravy. 
Theodora,  Stuf.  duxelles  cov.  fo-meat,  sprinkled  w.  pis- 
tachio, gar.  quen.,  dec.   stuf.   olives,  Montebello  sa. 
Tim  bale,  Dec.  mould  or  sprinkled  sw^.  br.  fo-meat  or  on 

paste,  gar.  and  sa.  optional. 
Toulouse,  Studded  truf.  braised,  gar.  w.  bouquet  of  mu. 

truf.,   olives,   cock's    combs   and   kidneys,    dec.    quen., 

All.  sa. 
Trudaine,  Braised  or  saute  in  border  Duchesse  pot.  or 

fo-meat  border,  gar.  w.  small  Toulouse,  All.  sa.   (See 

Toulouse). 
Vert-pre,  Braised,  gar.  w.  only  green  vege..  Supreme  sa. 

w.  asp.  butter. 
Pre-vert,  Braised  on  pu.  only  green  vege.  thi.  gravy. 
Vierge,   Braised   white,   cov.   fo-meat,     mousseline,  dec, 

gar.   w.   small  mousseline  of  mu..   Supreme   sa. 
Vintimille,   In   small   border  fo-meat,     sliced   w.    celery. 

braised,  mu.,  thi.  All.  sa.,  glazed. 
VIerchow,  Braised  white,  cut  in  dices,  saute  w.  oysters 

crabs,  thi.  Newburg  sa.  in  oyster  shell,  glazed  quickly. 
VIrginienne,   Broiled    on   Virginia   ham,   broiled   mu.   on 

top,  Colbert  sa. 
Vol  nay.  Sliced  saute  on  mu.  pu.,  mad.  sa.  w.  torn. 
Waldorf,  Braised  on  bottom  of  art.  gar.  w.  small  quen. 

and  truf..  Supreme  sa.  w.  truf. 
Zurich,   Larded   around,   center  w.   tongue   in  crust,   fi' 

w.  veal,  palate,  mu.  truf.,  ch.  quen.,  thi,  Soubise  sa. 

—  258  — 


L  I  G  H  T  &■ 

Yvette,  Studded  w.  truf.  in  star,  gar.  mu.,  ch.  quen.. 
Supreme  sa.  w.  asp.  butter. 

TAILS — Queues 

Tails  most  used  in  alimentation  are  those  of  beef, 
veal,  pig  and  mutton.  Soup  also  is  made.  Different 
preparations  are:  braised,  broiled  and  stuffed,  they  can 
be  served  with  different  sauces  and  garnitures.  Tails 
are  a  nourishing  aliment  and  must  be  well  cooked. 

Bourgeoise,   Slice,  braised  w.   vege.   demi-glace. 

Braise  (Braised),  Boneless,  stuf.  sliced,  gar.  w,  pu. 
noodles  or  divers  paste  w.  coction  and  thi,  gravy,  ac- 
cording to  article. 

Cavour,  Slice,  braised,  remove  bone,  gar.  w.  mu.  in  bor- 
der of  chestnuts  pu.  w.  tail  stock. 

Charollaise,  Braised,  gar.  w.  vege.  Bourgeoise,  salt  pork 
in  border,  Duchesse  pot.,  pork  quen.  w.  garlic  and 
parsley  on  top. 

Chipolata,   Braised    (See   Beef  Chipolata)    w.   stock. 

Desossee,  Remove  bones  raw  without  piercing  or  cooked 
stuf.   divers   styles,   gar.   and   sa.  according  to  article. 

Fermiere  (Farmer  style).  Sliced,  braised  w.  sliced  vege. 
w.  coction  and  thi.  gravy. 

Flamande  (Flamish  style),  Gantoise  or  Hochepot.  Sliced 
tails,  pig's  feet,  ears  and  pig's  tail,  salt  pork,  mutton, 
cooked  w.  vege.,  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  cabbage, 
pot.,  sea.  water  or  stock,  cooked  slowly  for  two  hours, 
served  in  earthen  dish  or  casserole  w.  chipolata  saus- 
ages. 

TONGUE,   BEEF,   LAMB  AND   VEAL 
Langue  de   Boeuf,  Veau   et  Agneau 

All  braised,  fresh,  salted  or  smoked  tongues  should 
be  boiled  well  from  three  to  four  hours. 

Alsacienne,  Half  salted,  boiled  or  braised,  gar.  w.  chou- 

croute  and  sliced  ham,  thi.  gravy. 
.Aspic,  Whole  or  sliced  in   dec.  mould,  fil.  w.  jelly. 

—  259  — 


CANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bouillie  (Boiled),  In  cold  water;   after  cooked  peel,  put 

in  cold  water,  or  hot  stock,  gar.  w.  divers  pu.  or  sa. 

smoked  or  fresh. 
Braise,  Braised,  fresh,  scalded  and  peeled,  after  cooked 

gar.  w.  divers  gar.  or  sa.  bigarade,  raisins,  torn,  sa., 

etc.  gar.  Bourgeoise,  spinach,  jardiniere,  Nivernaise, 
..I,  noodles,  sorrel,  Flamande,  Milanaise,  or  All.  pu.  w.  thi. 
■■.  gravy. 

Fpoid,  Cold,  smoked,  sliced  for  cold  meat  w.  jelly. 
Mousse,  Mousseline,  quenelle,  timbale,  etc.     (See  Farce) 

gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Purees,  Puree  celery,  Conti,  Dubarry,  chestnuts,   green 

peas,  fresh  or  dry,  potatoes,  torn.,  etc. 
Sale  (Salted),  See  Brime  and  Marinade). 
Sauce,  Divers  sa.     Mushrooms,  Hashee,  mad.,  tom.,  pi- 

quante,   Romaine,    Soubise,    Hussarde.     See    "Sauces" 

for  complement. 

TRIPE — Tripes 

Tripe  consists  of  the  stomach,  cap,  rennet-bag  and 
franchemule.  Tripe  is  an  inexpensive  aliment  and  can 
be  bought  already  cooked  at  the  butchers.  It  should 
be.  well  prepared  and  highly  seasoned. 

Anglaise,  Boiled  and  cut  in  square  pieces  (honeycomb), 
cr.  sa.  w.  smothered  shredded  onions,  gar.  w.  boiled 
onions. 

Blanquette,  Cut  in  small  squares,  Blanquette  sa. 

Bourgeoise,  Cut  in  pieces  2  inches,  braised  w.  sliced 
vege.,  Espagnole  sa.  sea.  mu.  fi-her.,  garlic  facutative. 

Cornillaise,  Same  Bourgeoise  w.  pig's  feet. 

Creole,  Sliced  saute,  braised  w.  Creole  sa.,  rice. 

Cream,  Boiled,  cut  in  squares  w.  cr.  sa.,  add  mu., 
oysters,  boiled  eggs,  etc.  according  to  name. 

Diable  (Deviled),  After  boiled  cov.  Diable  butter,  bread- 
ed, broiled,  hot  or  cold  sa.  highly  sea. 

Frite  (Fried),  After  cooked  cut  in  2-inch  squares, 
breaded  English  style,  divers  hot  or  cold  sa.,  fried  in 
oil  w.  escargot  butter  (Bourguignonne  style),  cov.  w. 
French  mustard  and  vinaigrette  sa.   (Troyenne). 

Grille,  After  boiled  cut  in  4-inch  squares,  dipped  in 
butter  and  bread,  broiled  w.  divers  sa.  or  butter. 

—  260  — 


L  I  G  H  T  S* 

Lyonnaise,  After  cooked  sliced  saute  w.  shredded  onions, 
browned,  add  a  little  vinegar  in  pan  and  chopped 
parsley  on  top. 

Mode  de  Caen,  After  scalding,  cut  tripe  and  beef  feet 
in  pieces  of  about  5  inches,  wash  well.  Take  the 
bones  of  the  feet  and  put  in  an  earthen  pot, 
with  onions  and  carrots,  cut  in  large  pieces,  add 
thyme,  bay  leaves,  leeks,  celery  and  parsley,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  small  bag  in  the  center 
containing  garlic,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  cover  with  a 
layer  of  beef  fat,  add  cider,  white  wine  or  cider 
brandy.  Close  earthen  pot  very  tight,  put  in  oven, 
let  cook  slowly  for  10  or  12  hours.  The  name  of 
tripe  used  for  "Mode  de  Caen"  is:  cap,  rennet-bag 
and  franchemule.  Calf's  feet  may  be  used  in  place  of 
beef,  if  necessary.  Serve  without  bones  or  vege- 
tables in  small  earthen  tureen,  hot  and  not  greasy. 

Mode  du  Sud  (Southern  style),  After  boiled  cut  1-inch 
squares,  braised  w.  Creole  sa.,  after  braised   add  oysters 

Parisienne,  After  boiled  cut  in  squares,  saute,  sea.  add 
a  little  vinegar  in  pan  or  Parisienne  sa. 

Poitevine,  Cap  of  tripe,  cooked  whole,  stuf.  w.  bread 
crumbs,  mixed  w.  chopped  cooked  onions,  chives,  fi- 
ber., season,  raw  eggs,  close  and  sew  together,  braised 
moisten  w.  white  wine  and  veal  juice,  bake  two 
hours,  take  the  thread  out  before  serving,  strain  the 
gravy  on  top,   garlic  facultative. 

Poulette,  Sliced,  cooked  well,  Poulette  sa.  w.  chives. 

Provengale,   Same  Lyonnaise  w.  pounded  tom.  and  garlic. 

Salade  (Salad),  Well  cooked,  sliced,  sea.  w.  crushed 
pepper  balls,  shredded  onions  or  gr.  onions,  French 
dressing. 

Tyrol ienne,  W.  onions,  pounded  torn.,  garlic,  sea.  and 
poivrade  sa.,  braised  one  hour. 

Vinaigrette,  Boiled,  vinaigrette  sa. 

UDDER— Tetine 

The  udder  of  young  veal,  lamb  or  heifer  is  very 
highly  esteemed.  Scald  15  to  20  minutes;  when  cold 
serve    for    garnishings. 

—  261  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 


POULTRY  (Volaille) 

Poultry  is  the  generic  and  collective  term  applied  to 
all  domestic  fowl  such  as:  chicken,  duck,  geese, 
pigeons  and  guinea  fowls.  Poultry  that  has  special 
nourishment  for  fattening  purposes  are  called:  pullets, 
capons,  spring  and  squab  chickens,  also  Hambourg 
chickens. 

There  are  a  great  many  different  culinary  prepa- 
rations, but  the  simple  way  is  the  best,  roast,  saute  or 
grilled.  Chickens  or  pullets  to  be  braised  or  poached 
should  be  singed,  emptied  and  breast  bone  taken  out, 
trussed,  covered  with  larding  pork,  moistened  with 
gravy  or  divers  wines.  When  they  are  to  be  poached, 
rub  with  lemon  and  poach  in  white  stock.  The  stock 
after  used  for  braising  should  be  added  to  the  sauce 
and  garniture.  Chickens  that  are  to  be  larded  should 
first  be  lightly  poached. 

Chickens  to  be  saute  should  be  singed,  emptied,  car- 
ved, saute  in  oil  or  butter,  drained,  moistened  with 
gravy  or  wine.     Do  not  cook  more  than  five  minutes. 


Chicken   ready   for   Braising 


BRAISED   CHICKEN— Poulet   Braise 

Empty  and  singe  chicken,  leave  the  skin  of  the  neck 
as  long  as  possible,  cut  the  feet  and  put  between  the 
skin  and  flesh,  take  out  the  breast  bone.  Truss  and 
stuff  according  to  desire.  Put  vegetables  and  giblets  of 
chicken  in  bottom  of  pan,  place  chicken  on  top,  put  in 
hot  oven,  when  brown,  moisten  with  white  stock,  juice 
and  wine.  Let  cook  50  minutes  to  two  hours  according 

—  262  — 


POULTRY 


to  size.  Add  juice  from  pan  to  sauce  and  the  garnish- 
ings.  Always  rub  poultry  with  lemon  and  keep  as 
white  as  possible. 

ROAST   CHICKEN— Poulet   Roti 

t  •■ 
The   best  way  to  roast  a  chicken  is   on   a  spit,   but 
that  mode  is  quite  forgotten  these  days.     Place  chicken 
in  a  hot  oven     and  baste  frequently     with  the  butter, 
moisten  with  white  stock  after  colored   brown. 


Chicken   ready  for  Roasting 


CHICKEN    DIVERS    STYLES— Poulet    Genres    Divers 

Chicken  cooked  in  an  earthen  pan,  cocotte  or  tureen, 
is  only  served  to  order  and  requires  the  same  time  as 
roast  or  braised  articles,  according  to  size,  closed  with 
lute. 

Planked  chicken  is  also  cooked  to  order,  the  garnish- 
ings  being  served  according  to  desire.  Time  for  cook- 
ing is  same  os  broiled  or  roast. 

Stuffed  poultry,  braised  or  roast,  requires  15  to  30 
minutes  more  in  cooking.     Large  pieces  one  hour. 

BROILED   CHICKEN— Poulet   Grille 

Singe  chicken,  cut  open  in  back,  take  out  intestines, 
cross  the  wings,  put  the  legs  inside,  flatten  lightly 
without  breaking,  season  and  butter,  put  on  broiler. 
Let  cook  slowly  on  both  sides.  Serve  Maitre  d'Hotel 
butter  or  deviled  sauce. 

—  263  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

CARVED   CHICKEN    SAUTE— Poulet   Saute    Decoupe 

Cut  in  13  pieces  according  to  above  model,  season, 
saute  in  butter.  Keep  turning  until  well  browned,  when 
cooked  add  sauce  atid  garnishings.  Do  not  let  cook 
one  or  two  minutes  longer,  as  it  becomes  hard. 


Carved  Chicken 


Time   required  to  Cook  Poultry,   Braised  and    Roast 

Capon  or  Poularde,  ll^  to  2  hours. 

Duckling,  1  to  li/4  hours. 

Goose  (young),  II/2  to  2  hours. 

Phila.  Chicken,  50  minuteSs  to  1  hour. 

Pullet,  1^  to  2  hours. 

Spring  chicken,  40  to  50  minutes. 

Squab  chicken  or  Hambourg,  25  to  30  min. 

Squab  Royal,  30  to  35  minutes. 

Turkey,  1^  to  2  hours. 

Broiled   or  Saute 

Capon  or  Poularde,  30  to  50  minutes. 
Duckling,  25  to  40  minutes. 
Goose   (young),  35  to  50  minutes. 
Phila.  Chicken,  25  to  35  minutes. 
Spring  Turkey,  25  to  35  minutes. 
S'quab  chicken  or  Hambourg,  15  to  20  min. 
Squab   (Royal),  20  to  25  minutes. 

—  264  — 


POULTRY 


ABBREVIATIONS 

Ail,  allemande.  Art.  artichoke,  Asp.  asparagus. 
Bra.  braised,  Ch.  chicken,  Chop,  chopped,  Cov.  covered 
Cr.  cream,  Croq,  croquette,  Crust,  crustade,  Dec,  decor- 
ated, Fil.  filled,  Fi-her,  Fine-herbs,  Gr.  green,  Holl.  hol- 
landaise,  Jul.  julienne,  Mad,  madeira,  Mu,  mushrooms, 
Po,  poached.  Pep.  pepper,  Pot,  potatoes,  Poun,  pouned, 
Quen.  quenelles,  Re.  reduce,  Sa.  sauce.  Sea,  seasoned, 
Sup.  sa,  supreme  sauce,  Stuf,  stuffed,.  Sw.  pep,  swet 
peppers,  Swb,  sveetbread,  Th,  thicken,  Tom,  tomatoes, 
Truf.  truffles,  Veg.  vegetable,  W.wl.  white  wine,  w.  \n  , 


Larded  Legs   of  Chicken  and  Breast   incrusted  with   Truffles 


CHICKEN   POULARDE,  ETC. 

(Poulet,  Poullarde,  etc.) 

Alarmartine,  Broiled  cov,  w.  melted  butter  mix.  \v.   ch. 
Glace  French  mustard  chopped  taragon  and  parsley. 

—  265  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Albufera,  Stuf.  w.  risotto  and  truf.  in  dice  braised,  gar. 
w.  mu.  truf.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys  around,  albu- 
fera sa. 

Alexandra,  Larded  w.  tongue  and  truf.,  braised,  gar,  dec. 
chicken  quen.  asp.  tips,  sup.  sa.  or  saute,  same  gar. 

Algerienne,  Saute  w.  pounded  torn,  moisten,  gar.  w;  turn- 
ed chayottes  and  sweet  potatoes  glazed,  mad.  sa. 

Ambassade,  Po.  studded  w.  truf.  braised,  gar.  w.  studded 
sweetbreads  w.  truf,  asp.  tips,  supr.  sa. 

Americain,  Fricassee  w.  salt  pork,  small  onions,  mu. 
small   potatoes,   cov.   w.  puff   paste   baked. 

Amphitryon,  Stuf,  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w,  chestnuts,  truf.  nut. 
sausages,  braised,  gar.  w.  stuf.  tom.  around,  mad.  sa. 

Andalouse,  Braised,  gar.  w.  stuf.  sweet  pep.  w.  risotto, 
egg-plant  saute,  chorizo  sausages,  sup.  sa.  w.  pimen- 
tos butter. 

Anchiladas,  Small  corn-meal  pancake  stuf.  w.  chop,  chic- 
ken, onions,  pimentos,  olives,  garlic,  chili  peppers, 
tom.  thicken  w.  corn  meal,  rolled,  cov.  w.  tom.  sa. 
grated  cheese  aud  gratin.  Also  enclosed  in  corn  husks 
Chili  sauce. 

Anglaise,  Poached,  gar.  w.  bouquet  of  fancy,  vegetables, 
cream  sauce. 

Anversoise,  Braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  hop  shoots,  sup.  sa. 

Aquitaine,  Braised  gar.  w.  slices  of  f.-gras,  truf.  cock's 
combs  and  kidneys,  mu.  mad.  sa. 

Archiduc,  Saute,  moisten  w.  brandy,  add  thick,  cream 
or  sup.-sa.  Gar.  w.  asp-tips  and  truf. 

Argenteuil,  Braised  or  saute,  thick  w.  sup-sa.  gar.  w. 
asp-tips. 

Arlesienne,  S'aut,  gar.  w.  pounded  tom.  egg-plant 
French  fried  onions,  mad-sa.  w.  tom. 

Armagnac,  Saute,  moisten  w,  brandy,  reduced  w.  ere. 
add  crawfish  butter,  slice  of  truf. 

Armenonville,  Saute,  moisten  w.  cream  add  celery  and 
truf.  in  Jul.  noisette  pot.  around. 

Artichauts,  Saute  w.  raw  sliced  art.  bottoms  or  in  dice 
moisten  w.  wine  and  ch.  glace  meat. 

Aspic,  Cold.  Cov.  w.  chaud-froid  sa.  in  dec.  mould  filled 
w.  jelly. 

—  266  — 


POULTRY 


Aurore,  Stuf.  w.  ch-fo-meat  w.  torn,  puree,  braised,  au- 

rore  sa. 
Baked   Pie,   See  Ataerican  or  Chicken  Pie. 
Ballotine,.  Hot  or  cold  "Galantine  Style",  braised  divers 

gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Baltimore,  Maryland  Style  w.  Virginia  ham. 
Banquiere,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  and  fo-gras  cut  in  dice, 

braised,    gar.    w.    crustade   fil.    w.    salpicon   truf.    and 

f.-gras  w.  boneless  lark  on  top-     Dec.  ch.  quen,  mad. 

sauce. 
Bardoux,  Saute  w.mirepoix  w.  ham,  thick,  double  cr.    „ 
Bartelasse,    Saute,    in  oil,    moisten   w.    white    wine   and 

gravy,  chop  parsley. 
Bayard,  Saute  marengo  style.  Gar.  w.  art.  bottom  w.  asp. 

tips  and  slices  of  foie  gras. 
Beaufort,  Stuf.  w.   f-gras,   stud  w.  truf.   Braised  gar.  w, 

lamb   tongue,   art-bottom   fil.   w.   soubise,   th.   gravy. 
Beau  lieu,  Saute  w.  art.  olivette  pot.  olives,  th.  gravy  in 

casserole. 
Belle   Meuniere,  Stuf,  w.   ch.  liver,  mu.  and  truf.  in  co- 

cotte,   gar.   w.   salt   pork   cut  in   dice,   mu.   th.   gravy. 

Closed  w.  lute. 
Bercy,  Saute  w.  echalottes,  moisten  w.  white  wine,  gar. 

w.  mu.  nut  sausages,  ch-glace,  lemon  juice,  and  fine 

herbs. 
Bergere,   Braised  or  saute   ,w.   salt  pork  in  dice,   small 

onions,   field  mu.   paille  pot.   gravy. 
Berthier,  Braised  or  saute,  all-sa,  gar.  w.  art-bottom  in 

quarters  and  timbale  of  spinach. 
Blanquette,  Carved,  gar.  w.  onions  mu.   (See  Blanquette 

sauce.) 
Bohemienne,  Saute  w.  egg-plant  in  dice,     pounded  tom. 

garlic,  fine-herbs,  gravy. 
Boieldieu,   Stuf.   w.   f-gr.   stud  w.   nails   of  truf.   braised, 

gar.  w.  truf.  mad-sa. 
Boivin,   Saute   w  art.-bottom   in   quarters,   small   onions, 

noisette  pot,  moisten,  tom.  fines  herbes. 
Bonne-Femme,   in   Cocotte   w.   salt  pork,   small   pot   and 

onions,  gravy. 
Bontoux,  Braised  or  saute  w.  supreme  sa.  gar.  w.  maca- 
roni, tongue  and  truf,  slices  ch.  fo-meat  sausage. 


—  267 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY  ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bordelaise,   Saute  w.  art.  bottom  and  pot.   cut  in  dice, 

moisten  white  wine,  fi-herb. 
Bouchees,  French  term  for  Patties.  Salpicon  of  ch,  w. 

mu.  and  truf.  Divers  styles.   (See  Patties)., 
Bouillie,  Fowl  generally  used.  Poached  gar.  w.  salt  pork, 

parsley  sa.  (Same  w.  fancy  vege.) 
Boulangere,   Cooked   in  earthen   dish   w,    small   onions, 

pot,  moisten  w.  ch.  stock,  baked. 
Bouquetiere,  Braised  or  po.  supreme  sa.  gar.  in  fancy 

basket  made  of  carrots  and  turnips,  fil.  w.  jardiniere 

or  crustade  fil.  w.  fancy  vege. 
Bourguignonne,    Braised    or   saute    w.    salt   pork,    smali 

onions,  mu.  moisten  w.  red  wine  or  Bourguignonne  sa. 

(See  Daube.) 
Bourgeoise,  Cooked  in  earthen  pan  w.  divers  vege.  and 

little  gravy.    (Same  braised,  w.  fancy  vege.) 
Brais«,  Braised.   (S'ee  article  heading  for  chicken)   gar. 

and  sa.  according  to  desire. 
Bretonne,  Saute  w.   onions  and  leeks,   sliced  mu.  thick 

double  cream,  shredded  chives  on  top. 
Calcutta,  Braised,   saute  or  sliced  w.   curry  sa.  in  rice 

border. 
California,  Poached,  take  skin  off,  gar.  w.  risotto,  mix 

sliced  fresh  mu,  and  green  peas,  cov.  ch.  w.  sup.  sa. 
Capllotade,  Use  roast  or  braised  cold  ch.  carved,  saute, 

put  in  Italienne  sa.  w.  sliced  gerkins  in  Duchess  pot., 

border,  same  w.  lyonnaise  sa.,  etc. 
Cantaloupe  (En)   En  cantaloupe,  use  small  chicken,  bone- 
less and  stuf.,  according  to  style,   cut  cantaloupe  in 

two,  take  out  seeds  bake  15  minutes,  braise  chicken 

then  put  in  cantaloupe  bake  5  minutes,  cov.  w.  stock 

of  chicken,  add  cantaloupe  juice. 
Cardinal,  Stuf  w.  risotto  Italienne  w.  ham  braised,  gar. 

w.  stuf  tom.  supr.  sauce,  aurore  color. 
Carnot,  Open  frog-  shape,  sea,  envelopped  in  caul,  broil- 
led,  cov.   w.   Maitre   d'Hotel  butter  w.   ch.   glaze   and 

chop,  taragon. 
Caroly,  Saute,  moisten  cream  in  risotto,  border  w.  truf. 
Carvalho,    Saute,   moisten   cream,    gar.    w.   art.    bottom, 

stuf.  w.  ch.  salpicon  cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  dec. 
Casserole,  All  ch.  cooked  in  earthen  pan.  divers  styles. 

—  268  — 


POULTRY 

Castellane,  Saute  moisten  w.  malaga  wine  and  espagnole 
sa.  w.  chesnuts  salt  pork,  small  onions. French  carrots. 

Castilane,  Saute  w.  ham  in  dice,  sweet  peppers,  moisten 
Spanish  wine  and  espagnole  sa.  in  risotto  border  w. 
saffron. 

Catalanne,  Saute  in  oil  w.  stuf,  tom.  glazed  onions  mu. 
chesnuts  demi-glace. 

Celery,  Braised,  poached  or  saute  w.  celery  sa.  or  gar. 
w.  braised  celery  in  branch  or  big  dice  in  sup.  sa. 
all.  sa,  or  cream  sauce. 

Cendrillon,  Small  ch.  split  lightly  saut.  cov.  w.  sau- 
sage meat  and  truf.  in  dice,  enveloped  in  caul,  pass 
in  butter  and  fresh  crumbs,  broiled,  truf,  sa. 

Cettoise,  Carved,  breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter, 
gar.  w.  stuf.  olive  w.  anchovies,  pounded  tom.  w. 
garlic  and  parsley.  Mad.  sauce  with  tomatoes. 

Champagne,  Hot  or  cold.  Braised  or  saute,  moisten  w. 
champagne,  gar.  divers  styles,  according  to  name,  truf, 
mushrooms,  etc. 

Champeaux,  Saute,  moisten  wh.  wi.  ch.  glaze  gar.,  w. 
glazed  small  onions  and  noisette  pot. 

Champignon,  "Mushrooms"  all  chicken,  braised,  poa- 
ched or  saute  w.  mushrooms,  brown  or  white  sauce, 
sliced  or  heads  of  mushrooms. 

Chanoinesse,  Saute  w.  mirepoix  moisten  w.  wh.  wi.  and 
bearnaise  sa.  gar.  w.  crustade  fil.  w.  asp.  tips. 

Chasseur,  "Hunter  Style".  Saute,  w.  shallots  and  sliced 
mu.  moisten  w.  wh.  wi.  demi-glace  sa.  w.  torn,  or  chas- 
seur sauce. 

Chatelaine,  Braised,  gar.  w.  art.  bottom,  fil.  w.  chest- 
nut puree,  circle  of  soubise  puree  around,  noisette  pot. 
between  art.  madere  sauce. 

Chateaudun,  S'aute  moisten  w.  mad.  sa.  gar.  w.  mu.  oli- 
ves, art.  in  4,  Croix  d'honneur  made  w.  tongue. 

Chaud-Froid,  French  term  for  all  cooked  ch.  cov.  w. 
chaud-froid   sauce   divers  colors,   gar.   w.   Jelly. 

Chausson,  Braised  cut  in  two  parts,  put  in  puff  paste 
cov.  w.  matignon  or  divers  gar.  form  chausson  shape 
w.  chimney  on  top,  bake,  when  cooked  add  stock  or 
sa. 

—  269  — 


G  AN  GEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Chevaliere,  Carved  legs  larded,  wings  larded  w.  truf  and 
tongue,  fricasse  style  w.  mu.  truf.  cock's  comb  and 
kidney,  dec.  ch.  quen.  around. 

Chez-Soi,  "Home  style"  carved,  sea.  in  earthen  dish, 
butter,  small  onions  and  small  pot.  baked. 

Chicken  Pie,  Fricassee  American  style  (See  Ameri- 
caine).  English  style,  carved  raw,  sea.  add  ch. 
stock  or  water,  same  garnishing  cov.  puff  paste,  bake 
two  hours.     Pot-pie  same  fricasse  w.  dumplings. 


Baked    Engli.sh    Chicken    Pie 


Chi  may,  Stuf.  w.  noodles  and  ch.  fo-meat,  braised,  gar. 
w.  asp.  tips  and  noodles,  th.  gravy. 

Chipolata,  Braised,  gar.  w.  ran.  carrots,  turnips,  chest- 
nuts., small  onions,  nut,  sausages,  mad.  sa. 

Chivry,  Braised  white,  gar.  fancy  mixed  veg.,  cliivry  sa. 

Chop  Suey,  (See  Oriental  Dish) 

Chow-Mein,  (See  Oriental  Dishes). 

Cinq  Minutes,  "Five  minutes".  Squab  chicken,  killed, 
plucked,  singed  and  carved,  cook  and  serve  all  within 
five  minutes  w.  divers  sauce.  The  secret  consists  in 
having  everything  ready  before  the  preparation  and 
you  are  sure  to  succeed  try  it. 

Circassienne,  Roasted  or  saute  w.  oil  of  walnuts,  mois- 
ten double  cream  w.  lobe  of  walnuts. 

Clamart,  Braised,  gar.  w.  peas,  French  style. 

Cocotte,  Cook  in  cocotte,  gar.  and  sa.  divers  styles, 
closed  w.  lute. 

—  270  — 


POULTRY 

Combination,  Ch.  divers  styles,  add  veg.  egg  or  pot.  ac- 
cording to  desire. 

Compote,  Braised  gar.  w.  small  glazed  onions,  mu.  salt 
pork  in  dice,  demi-glace  sa.,  same  w.  muscat  raisins. 

Conde,  Same  bourgeoise  style  w.  mu. 

Country  Style,  Fried  in  butter,  moisten  cream  sa.  and 
ch.  stock  w.  salt  pork  in  dice. 

Coquille,  Cooked,  sliced  in  silver  or  scallop  shells, 
border  w.  duchesse  pot.  gar.  and  divers  sa.  bake. 

Cotelette,  Wings  or  salpicon  composition  in  chop  shape, 
gar.  and  sa.  facultative.   (See  Salpicon). 

Cracovienne,  Stuf.  farina  mush  w.  fennel  and  parsley 
roasted,    cov.    w.    browned    butter    w.    bread    crumbs 

Crapeaudine,  Open  in  frog  shape,  deviled  butter,  bread- 
ed, broiled  or  fried  in  butter,  serve  w.  highly  sea. 
sauce,  deviled,  etc. 

Creole,  Braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  stuf.  green  and  sweet 
peppers  w.  risotto  crecle  and  Creole  sa.  w.  rice  separ- 
tely. 

Crepinette,  Salpicon  enveloped  in  caul,  broiled  or  fried, 

gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Croquette,   Salpicon,   divers   shapes,   fried,   gar.   and   sa. 

facultative.  (See  Croquette). 
Cubaine,   Cooked,   sliced   w.   green   and   sweet   peppers, 

pounded  torn.  th.  tom.  sa.  in  rice  border. 
Cumont   (De),   Braised,  covered  w.  bercy  butter  w.   ch. 

glace  fi-her.  taragon  and  chopped  hard  eggs. 
Curry,  Braised  or  saut«§,  w.  curry  sa.  rice. 
Cussy,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.  head  fil.  w.  art.  puree  truf. 

cock's  comb  and  kidneys,  thi.  gravy. 
Cumberland,    Saute,    moisten      double      cream,    gar.    w. 

rings  of  onions,  cooked  white. 
Curson,    (See    albufera),    add   curry   and    fancy   braised 

cucumbers. 
Cynthia,  Saute,  moisten  w.  champagne  ,gar.  w.  quarters 

of  oranges  and  raisins,  dry  curacoa,  lemon  juice,  but- 
tered. 

Dampierre,  Boneless,  stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat,  mu.  almonds, 
braised,  served  cold,  gar.  w.  dec.  mousse  of  tongue 
and  fo-gras  in  aspic,  jelly  around. 

—  271  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


D'Artois,  Saute,  moisten  w.  demi-glace  sa.  gar.  w.  art. 

bottom  in  4,  small  French  carrots  glazed  and   small 

onions,  sprinkled  w.  chives. 
Oaube,  Braised  in  tureen  w.  aromates  and  wine,  closed 

w.  lute. 
D'Aumale,   Stuf.   w.   ch.   fo-meat,   stud,  w.  truf.   braised, 

gar.  w.  stuffed  cucumbers,  tongue,  and  fo-gras  puree, 

th.  gravy. 
Deiisles,  Broiled,  on  risotto  piemontaise  gar.  w.  pounded 

torn,  saute,  th.  gravy. 
De  Lobef,  Saute  w.  egg-plant  and  torn,  in  dice  shallots 

and  garlic,  moisten  w.  white-wine,  fi-herb.  gar.  w.  cu- 
cumbers saute. 
Demi-Deuil,  Sliced  truf,  between  skin  and  meat,  braised 

white,  supr,  sa.  w.  truf.  and  mu. 
Demidoff,  Braised  or  saute,  moisten  w.  mad.  sa.  gar.  w. 

carrots   and   turnips,   cut   crescent   shape,      rings     of 

onions  and  truf.  around. 
Derby,  Stuf  risotto  w.  fo-gras,  and  truf.  in  dice,  braised 
,  carved  and  dressed  on  rice,  cov.  w.  sup.-sa.  gar.  w.  fo- 
gras,  saute  and  truf. 
Desosse,  All  Ch.  boneless,   stuf.  roasted,  broiled  saute, 

according  to  style.  Gar.  stuf.  or  sauce. 
Diable,    "Deviled"    cov.    diable    butter,    breaded,    broiled 

or  fried.  Sa.  cold  or  hot.     It  is  preferable  Lo  cook  % 

before  breaded. 
Diane  Stuf.  legs  w.  ch.  salpicon  and  braised,  wings  in- 
crusted   truf.   poached,  regence-sa.   w.   crescent   made 

of  truf.   gar.   w.   cock's   combs   and  kidneys. 
Diva,  Same  Derby.  Cov.  w.  supr.-sa.  w.  paprika  gar.  w. 

wild  mushrooms  saute.   (See  Mushrooms). 
Dodd,   Saute   w.    onions   and   curry,   moisten   w.    double 

cream  in  risotto  border. 
Dom   Pedro,  Stuf.  w.   risotto  italienne.   Braised,  gar.  w. 

minuscule  patties  fil  w.  financiere  and  fo-gras.  Tom  sa. 
Doria,  Saute,  moisten  w.  gravy  gar.  w.  cucumbers  olive 

shape,  saute. 
Dreux,  Stud  w.  truf.  and  tongue,  braised  gar.  w,  cock's 

coinb  and  kidneys,  truf.  all  sa.  Dec.  ch.  quen.  around. 
Dufaure,   Saute,    moisten   gravy   w.   sliced  mu.   pounded 

tom.  shredded  chives  on  top,  gar.  noisette  pot. 


POULTRY 


Dumas,    Saute   w.    sliced   mu.    moisten   Mad.    sa.   w.   ju- 
lienne of  tongue  on  risotto  gar.  w,  lamb  fries  saute. 
Duphot,  Saute  w.  onions  and  ham  cut  in  dice,  moisten 

cream  gar.  croquettes  of  eggs. 
Durand.  Saute  in  oil  w.  pounded  tom.  and  ham  in  dice, 

moisten,   gar.   w.    fried   french   onions   and   ham   cone 

shape,  filled  w.  pounded  torn. 
Duroc,  S'tuf.  w.  fo-meat  grattin,  tongue  and  truf.  braised 

Mad.  sa.  w.  sliced  truf. 
Ecossaise,  Braised  or  saute  w.  mirepoix  brunoise,  th.  w. 

cream  sa.  or  Ecossaise  sa.. 
Edward  VII,  Stuf,  same  "Derby"  supr.-sa.  w.  curry  and 

sweet  pep.  in  dice,  gar,  w.  fancy  cucumbers  saute. 
Egyptienne,    Saute,    in    oil    w.    onions,    mu.    ham,    tom. 

egg-plant  cut  in  dice,  gravy,  fi-herbs. 
Elysee,  Stuf.  w.  f.-gras,  and  truf.   Braised,  gar.  w.   mu- 

head,   whole   truf,   cock's   comb  and  kidneys.   Sup.-sa. 

Dec.  ch-quen. 
Enchiladas,    See    Anchilr^das. 
Escurial,  Saute,  onions,  mu.  ham,  moisten  wh-wi.  in  rice 

border,   gar.   w.   stuf.   olives   and   small  fried   eggs   in 

oil. 
Espagnoie,  Saute,  w.  green  and  sweet  pep.  moisten  tom. 

sa.  highly     seasoned,  gar.  w.   French     fried     onions, 

pounded  tom.  and  green  peas. 
Estouffade,    Braised    in    earthen    cocotte,    gar.    and    sa. 

according  to  desire,  close  w.  lute. 
Estragon,    "Taragon"    All    Ch.    w.    taragon.    Braised    w. 

white  sa.  and  taragon  or  saute  w.  taragon. 
Farcis,  "Stuffed"  All  Ch.  stuf.  according  to  desire,  brai- 
sed or  roasted. 
Favorite,   Stuf.   w.   ch.   fo-meat  mousseline,   and   fo-gras 

w.  truf.  in  dice.  Braised.  Sup.-sa.  gar.  w.  cock's  comb 

and  kidneys,  truf. 
Favre,  Saute  w.  onions  in  dice,  moisten  w.  double  ere, 

strained,  gar.  ch.  quen.  w.  truf. 
Fedora,  Braised  or  saute,  sup.-sa.  w.  crawfish  butter  and 

sliced  truf.  gar.  w.  asp.-tips. 
Fenouil,  "Fennel".  Braised  or  saute,  moisten  cream  w, 

chop,  fennel,  gar.  w.  braised  fennel. 


273  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Fenwick,    Braised   white,    sup.-sa.    gar.    art.    bottom   fil. 

Holl-sa.  asp.  tips,  sliced  Virginia  Ham  on  top. 
Perm  ie re,   Braised  or   saute,   gar.   w.     veg.     cooked     in 

earthen  pan,  country  style  or  veg.  in  bouquet. 
Financiere,  Braised.   Mad-sa.   gar.   w.   cock's  combs  and 

kidneys,  mu-head,  truf.  olives.  Dec.  quen.  Small  larded 

sweetbreads.  Financiere  sauce. 
Fine-Herbes,    Saute,    moisten    w.    white    \vine,    chopped 

shallots  chives,  parsley,  ch.  glace. 
Finnoise,   Saute,   onions   and   ham   cut  in   dice,  veloute- 

sa.  w.  sweet  pep.  butter. 
Florentine,    Saute,   moisten   w.    sweet   Italian   wine   gar. 

w.  spinach  custard,  onions  glazed  and  carrots,  gravy 

w.  torn. 
Forestiere,    Saute,    w.   wild   mu.    morills,    salt  pork   and 

pot.  in  dice,  gravy,  fi-herbs. 
Fricassee,  Carved,  scalded,  fricassee  style,  gar.  w.  small 

onions,   mu.    sauce   made  w.   stock  thickened  w.   yolk 

of  eggs,  lemon  juice,  parsley. 
Fritot,   Cooked,  pickled,   dipped   in  frying  batter,   fried. 

Divers-sa.  Mixed  w.  divers  combinations. 
Gabrielie   Saute,   moisten   w.    cream,   thicken   w.   jul.    of 

truf.  Palmette  puff-paste  around. 
Galantine,  Boneless,   stuf.   w.   ch.   fo-meat,  veal  or  pork 

according  to  style.  Add  tongue,  truf.  pistachio,  larding 

pork  sea,  hot  or  cold.  Cov.  w.  chaud-froid-sa.Dec.  jelly. 
Gastronome,    Stuf.    fo-gras    and   truf,     braised,     moisten 

champagne,    in   cocotte,   gar.   w.    moriils,   truf,   cock's 

combs  and  kidneys  lucullus  sa.  Closed  w.  lute,  bake, 

according  to  size,  1  hour  to  2  h.  30. 
Gelee,  Braised  or  roasted,  cold  w.   ch.  jelly  or  dec.   in 

mold,  aspic  style. 
Gen  in,    Saute,   w.    aliced    fresh   mu.    thi.    veloute   sa.   w. 

f-gras  puree,  chopped  parsley. 
Georgia,  Split  in  two,  fried  in  butter,  cream  sa.  gar.  w. 

sweet  potatoes  and  fried  salt  pork. 
Georgian,    Broiled   or   fried   in    butter,    gar.    w.    Virginia 

ham,  glazed  sweet  pot.  corn  fritters. 
Georgina,   Saute,   w.   mu.   onions,   moisten,   cream,   chop 

taragon  fi-herbs  on  top. 

—  274  — 


POULTRY 


Gibelotte,  Saute,  moisten  w.  white  wine,  salt  pork  pot. 
onions  glazed,  brown  sa. 

Glace,  "Glazed"  braised,  glazed  w.  ch.  glace  or  chaud- 
froid  sa.  dec.  cov.  w.  jelly. 

Godard,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.  head,  truf.  cock's  combs 
and  kidneys  sweetbreads,  godard  sa.  trussed  craw- 
fish and  fleurons. 

Golden  Gate,  (Same  California). 

Grammont,  Stuf.  w.  boneless  stuf.  lark,  w.  fo-graa 
and  truf,  braised,  gar.  w.  mu. -heads  cock's  combs  and 
kidneys  th.  gravy. 

Grand  Hotel,  Saute,  w.  truf.  moisten  w.  white  wine  in 
tureen,  closed  w.  lute,  bake  20  minutes. 

Grand'mere,  "Grandmother"  in  cocotte  w.  sliced  onions 
and  pot.  salt  pork  in  dice,  baked. 

Grazeilla,  Split  in  two,  saute,  moisten  asti  wine  dressed 
on  chamonix  pot.  gar.  w.  braised  fennel  and  white 
truf. 

Grecqtie,  Stuf.  w.  grecque  risotto,  braised  highly  sea- 
soned, th.  gravy. 

Grille,  "Broiled"  plain  or  breaded,  divers  sa.. 

Gros  Sel,  Boiled  English  style,  gar.  w.  vege.  served  w, 
coarse  salt. 

Hachis  "Minced"  ch.  cut  in  small  dice,  use  white  meat 
reduced  w.  cream,  potatoes  facultative.  (See  Hach). 

Helene,  Stuf.  w,  rice  w.  f-gras.  Braised  gar.  w.  subrics 
of  spinach  Sup.-sa.  w.  truf. 

HeloVse,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  truf.  puree.  Braised. 
Dec.  after  cooked  w.  whites  of  hard  eggs,  th.  gravy. 

Henri  IV,  Poule-au-pot.  (See  soup). 

Hollandaise,  Poached  or  Boiled.  (See  English  style). Hol- 
landaise  sauce. 

Hongroise,  Braised  white.  Hongroise  sa.  gar.  w.  noodles 
or  rice. 

Huitre,  Poached  white.  Cov.  w.  oyster-sa.  w.  beard  re- 
moved, in  cr.  or  all-sa. 

Hotel! ere,  S'tuf.  w.  sausage  meat  in  earthen  pan  w.  chop, 
fresh  mu.  veal  juice,  closed  w.  lute. 

Imperatrice,  Larded  w.  truf.  Braised,  glazed,  gar.  w.  gla- 
zed lamb  sweetbread,  calf's  brains  small  white  onions, 
sup.-sa.   w.   ch-puree. 


—  275— 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Imperial,  Stuf,  w.  fo-gras  w.  truf.  stud  w.  truf.  Braised 

w.  cognac,  gar.  w,  chi.  kidneys,  mu-head,  whole  truf. 

Lucullus-sa. 
Indienne,  Braised  or  saute,  w.  curry  sa.   and  cocoanut 

milk,  in  rice  border, 
Italienne,  Saute  w.  art-bottom,  italienne-sa. 
Isabelle,  Stuf.  w.  Spanish  risotto  w.  truf.  and  crawfish 

tails.   Braised  sup-sa.  w.   truf. 
I  voire,  Braised  white  Ivoire-sa. 
Jacquart,    Saute,   gar.    w.    turned    carrots    and    turnips 

small  glazed  onions,  braised  chestnuts.  Mad.  sa. 
Japonaise,   Saute  w.   stachys,     moisten     w.  veal     juice. 

Served  in  empty  egg-plant  w.  pulp  saute  in  bottom. 
Jardinere,  Braised  or  saute,   gar.   w.    bouquet  of  fancy 

veg.  thi.  gravy. 
Josephine,  Saute  w.  mirepoix,  ham  and  mu.  moisten  w. 

cognac  and  juice  gar.  w.  wild  mu. 
Jurasienne,   Saute,   w.   salt  pork,  moistened  meat  juice 

and  shredded  chives. 
Katoff,  Spit,  saute  on  potatoes  Anna.  Cov.  w.  ch.  glace 

and  veal  juice,  fi-herbs. 
Lady   Curzon,   Stuf.   w.   rice,   fo-gras   and   truf.    braised, 

supr-sa.  w.  curry. 
Lancaster,  Saute,  moisten  cream  add  horse-radish  strai- 
ned, gar.  w.  pot.  croquettes  and  shaved  horseradish. 
Languedoclenne,    Braised,    gar.    w.    egg-plant,   wild    mu. 

tom.  saute  in  bouquet.  Mad-sa. 
Lambertye,  Braised,  when  cold,  cov.  chaud  froid  sa.  Dec, 

gar.  of  mousse  of  fo-gras  or  in  dec.  mould,  surround 

w,  jelly, 
Lathuile,  Saute,  w,  bottom  art.  and  pot.  m  mould,  same 

Anna  pot.  French  fried  onions  around,  fried  parsl>ey 

on  top. 
La  Valliere,  Braised,  gar.  w.  crastade  ol:     green     peas. 

French   style,   and    small   rissole    of   ch.    pomponette, 

supr-sa. 
Leon  XIII,  Stuf.  Salpicon  of  spa^^hetti,  th.  w.  fo-gras  and 

truf.,  braised,  gar.  w.  minuscule  patties  ill.  w.  fo-gras. 

Sup-sa.  w.  crawfish  butter. 
Leonie,  Saute  w.  small  onions,  mu.  ham  in  dice,  moisten 

w.  tom.  fi-herbs. 

—  276  — 


POULTRY 

Limousine,  In  cocotte  w,  sait  pork,  Diii-head,  braised 
chestnuts,  th.  gravy,  closed  w.  lute,  baked. 

Loaf,  Carved  or  disjointed,  saute  sec  in  emptied  loaf 
or  bread  case  shape,  buttered  inside,  lightly  browned, 
gar.  facultative. 

Louis  XV,  Saute,  moisten  w.  cream  and  tom-sa.  gar.  w. 
asp-tips.  Dec.  ch-quen. 

Louise,  Stuf.  w.  fo-gras  stud  w.  truf.  braised  30  minutes, 
rolled  in  paste,  baked  one  hour  and  half. 

Louisania,  Braised  white,  on  risotto  mixed  w.  green  corn 
and  sweet  pep.  Cream-sa. 

Louisianaise,  Stuf.  w.  green  corn  and  pimentos  reduce 
w.  th.  cream,  braised,  cream-sa.  gar.  w.  fried  bananas. 

Luculius,  Stuf.  ch.  fo-meat  and  fo-gras  w.  truf.  braised, 
gar.  slices  of  fo-gras  saute,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys, 
fo-gras  quen.  LucuUus-sa. 

Lyonnaise,  Saute  w.  sliced  onions  demi-glace  sauce, 
gar.  w.  braised  chestnuts. 

Madeleine,  Fricassee  style,  legs  larded,  gar.  w.  art-bot- 
tom, fil.  w.  fancy  vege.  th.  cr-sa. 

Madras,  When  cooked,  sliced  in  curry  sa-  put  in  can- 
taloupe then  bake  ten  minutes  fil.  w.  risotto,  curry 
chi.   on   top. 

Maintenon,  Larded  truf.  and  tongue,  braised  gar.  w,  mu- 
heads.  Dec.  ch.  quen  w.  tongue  and  truf.  sup-sa. 

Mais,  "Green  corn",  take  out  the  breast  bone,  stuf,  w. 
shredded  green  corn  reduced  w.  cream,  sea.  braised  or 
roasted  w.  butter. 

Maison  d'Or,  Braised.  Mad-sa,  gar.  w.  slices  of  fo-gras, 
saute,  cock's  combs  and  Kidneys,  truf.  Dec.  ch-quen. 

Mancini,  Stuf.  salpicon  macaroni  w.  fo-gras  and  truf. 
braised,  supr-sa.  Mornay  glazed. 

Marcel,  Saute,  mu.  and  pot.  in  dice,  moisten  white- 
wine,  fi-herbs,  gar.  art.  bottom,  fil.  w,  chestnut  puree. 

Marchand,  Saute  w.  curry,  moisten  w.  cream  and  grated 

horseradish,  gar.  w.  fried  bananas. 
Marechale,  Stuf  w.  lamb  sweet  breads  calf's  brains,  mu. 

thicken,   braised,   gar.   w.   cock's   combs   and   kidneys, 

ch-quen,   supr.-sa. 

—  277  — 


G  ANGEL'S   CULINARY   ENGYGLOPEDiA 

Marengo,  Saute  in  oil  moisten  w.  brandy  or  white  wine 
pounded  torn.  mu.  olive,  truf.  little  garlic,  gar.  w. 
eggs    fried   in   oil    and    trussed    crawfish. 

M argot,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline,  w.  puree  of  al- 
monds. Braised,  gar.  w.  ch-quen  w.  pistachio  butter, 
another  w.  crawfish  butter.  Supr-sa.  w.  milk  of  al- 
monds. 

Marguerite,  Braised,  gar.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline  dec. 
w.  daisies,  made  in  tongue  and  point  of  truf.  in  center 
gar.  w.  asp-tips,  sup-sa.  w.  truf. 

Marie-Antoinette,  Braised,  gar.  w.  asp-tips,  mu-head  art- 
bottom  saute,  green  peas  , small  Parisienne  pot.  Gov. 
w.  bread  crumbs  polonaise,  gravy  w.  taragon. 

Marie  Louise,  Stuf.  Pilaf  rice,  w.  mu.  and  truf.  braised, 
all-sa,  gar.  w.  art-bottom,  fil  w.  braised  lettuce. 

Marigny,  Saute,  moisten  white-wine,  gar.  w.  art.  bottom 
fil.  w.  peas  and  string  beans  pot.  fondante. 

Mariveaux,  Braised  white,  gar.  (See  ch.  Toulouse),  crust 
heart  shaped  fil.  w.  fo-gras  puree  and  slice  of  truf,  on 
top. 

Marseillaise,  Saute  in  oil  w,  green  pep.  pounded  tom. 
garlic  and  fiherbs. 

Maryland,  Garved,  or  take  out  all  the  bones,  sea.  dip.  in 
milk  and  flour,  or  breaded  English  style  fried  in 
butter  or  bacon  fat,  cream-sa.  gar.  w.  corn  fritters, 
hominy  croq.  and  sliced  fried  bacon  on  top. 

Mascotte,  Saute,  w.  art-bottom,  pot.  and  truf.  cut  in 
dice,  moisten  w.  meat  juice. 

Mathilde,  Saute  w.  sliced  onions  and  fancy  cucumbers 
moisten  w.  brandy  and  th.  cream. 

Mayaguez,  Saute,  w.  green  and  sweet  peppers,  sliced 
mu.  meat  juice,  fi-herbs. 

Melba,  Roasted  10  minutes.  Put  in  cocotte  w.  ch.  broth, 
carrots,  turnips,  celery  leek„rice,  sea,  close,  let  cook. 
Served  natural. 

Mexicaine,  Braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  stuf.  green  and 
sweet   pep.   fil.   vv\   risotto,   italienne-sa.    w.    mexicaine 

pep.  mu.  and  frijoles.  Same  w.  cooked  sliced  breast. 

Mikado,  Saute,  w.  curry,  stachy,  pounded  tom.  truf.  in 
dice,  moisten  gravy. 

—  278  — 


POULTRY 

Milaniase,  Boneless,  sea.  bread  crumbs  and  cheese,  fried 

in  butter,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Minute,,   Carved,   saute   w,   shallots,   ch.-glace,  fin-herbs, 

pot.  bataille. 
Mireille,   Saute  in  oil.     Put  in   mould  w.  rice   and   saf- 
fron, veal  juice,  cooked  30  minutes,  unmould,  tom.  sa. 

around,  gar.  w.  small  patties  made  w.  Duchesse  pot. 

fil.  w.  pounded  tom. 
Mode   du   Sud   "Southern   style"   Split  in  half  rolled  in 

flour,  fried,  moisten  cream,  gar.  w.  corn  fritters  and 

slices  of  cooked  salt  pork  fried. 
Monaco,  Braised,  supr.  sa.  w.  truf.  gar.  w.  braised  sweet 

breads  ch..  quen.  dec.  w  .4  aces  made  w.  truf.  and  pi 

mentos. 
Montbazon,   Stud  w.  truf.   braised,  sup.  sa.  gar.  w.  mu 

head, glazed  sweetbreads,  dec.   ch.  quen. 
Montesquieu,   Legs   larded,  braised,  wings   incrusted  w 

truf,  saute  in  ch.  fo-meat  border,  mad.  sa.  w.  truf. 
Montgolfier,  Larded  w.  pork  and  truf,  braised,   gar.  w 

mu.  fil.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline,  supr-sa. 
Montmorency,  Larded  w.  truf.  braised,  mad.  sa.  gar.  w 

art.  bottom  w.  asp.  tips  or  fancy  vege.   and  dec.  ch 

quen. 
Morgan,  Same  "Mais"  moisten  w.  champagne. 
Morilles,  Carved,  sea,  saute  moisten  mad.  gar.  w.  morils, 

fi-hers. 
Mornay,  Braised,  sup.  sa.  gar.  w,  slices  of  fo-gras,  saute 

mu.  truf.  glazed  sweetbreads. 
Mousquetaire,    Saute,   w.    art.    bottom    mu.    in   dice,    ch. 

livers,  small  glazed  onions,  provengale  sa. 
Mousse   et   Mousseline,   See  under  head  of  mousse,  di- 
vers styles,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 
Mow-yow-gai-pan    or    Imperial    chop-suey.    (See   Oriental 

dishes). 
Nana,    Cut   in   frog   shape    saute,    in    casserole   or   long 

earthen  dish,  gar.  w.  small  glazed  onions,  olivette  pot. 

cov.  deviled  sa. 
Nantaise,   Saute,   moisten  w.   cream,   add   shrimps,   gar. 

w.  art.  bottom  croq.  w.  choped  ham. 
Nantua,  Braised,  nantua,  sa.  gar.  w.  crawfish  tails  and 

truf.  in  dice. 

—  279  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Nelson,  Braised,  chivry  sa.  w.  soubise  puree,  gar.  w. 
very  small  ch.  croq. 

Neva,  Stuf  w.  fo-gras  and  truf,  braised  after  cold,  chauf- 
froid  sa.  dec.  gar.  w.  fancy  cooked  veg.  glazed  w.  ch. 
jelly  serve  mayonnaise  sa.  separately. 

Nigoise,  Braised  or  saute,  w.  pounded  torn,  and  olives, 
cut  string  beans  gar.  w.  risotto. 

Nordica,  Stuf.  ch.  fo-meat,  envelope  in  large  slice  of 
raw  ham,  braised  w.  brandy  and  mad.  gar.  w.  mu. 
head  and  small  glazed  onions. 

Normande,  Saute,  moisten,  w.  cider  brandy  w.  sliced 
apples  in  tureen,  closed  w.  lute,  baked. 

Nouilles,  "Noodles"  braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  noodles. 

CEufs  d'Or,  "Golden  Eggs"  braised  white,  cov.  sa.  aurore 
gar.  w.  egg  croq.  and  truf.  egg  shape. 

Orientale,  Stuf.  w.  pilaf  race  orientale  style,  braised, 
gar.  w.  chayotte,  smothered  or  croq. 

Orleannaise,  Saute,  moisten  w.  red  wine,  mu.  and  small 
onions. 

Osis  (Baron),  Braised  white,  cov.  all  sa.  gar.  w.  mussels, 
mu.  oysters,  shrimps  and  truf. 

Oxalis,  Saute  w.  oxalis  in  dice,  fi-herbs. 

Pacha,  Saute  w.  mu.  truf,  egg-plant, ch.  livers,  curry  sa. 
in  border  of  rice  pilaf. 

Pail  lard,  Stuf,  w.  fo-gras,  truf.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys 
braised.  When  cold,  add  chaud-froid  sa.  mad.  w.  stock 
of  ch.  dec.  w.  truf.  and  white  of  egg,  jelly. 

Pane,  "Breaded".  All  ch.  split  carved  or  boneless  sea 
dipped  in  butter  and  crumbs,  broiled,  or  breaded  En- 
glish style,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 

Paprika,  Braised  or  saute  w.  paprika,  moisten  w.  cream 
in  border  of  rice. 

Parame,  Rolled  w.  mirepoix  matignon  in  paper,  braised 
gar.  w.  fancy  carrots  and  turnips,  braised  lettuce,  de- 
mi-glace  sa. 

Parlsienne,  Braised,  parisienne  sa.  gar.  mu.  head  dec. 
ch.  quen.  w.  tongue  and  truf. 

Parmentiere,  Saute  w.  pot.  in  dice  or  noisette,  moisten 
w.  ch. -glace,  fi-herbs. 

Pate,  Divers  ch.  fo-meat  w.  crust  paste,  in  tureen  or  pat- 
ties according  to  name. 

—  280  — 


POULTRY 

Patti,  Stuf.  same  albufera,  braised,  sup  sa.  w.  paprika, 

gar.  w.  art.  bottom  and  truf. 
Paysanne    "Country    style"    braised   in    earthen   pan    or 

saute  w.  sliced  veg.  smothered  w.  butter,  gravy. 
Perigourdine,  All  ch.  cooked  w.  truf.  stuf.  braised,  roast- 
ed, saute  w.  truf.  brown  and  white  sa. 
Petite   mariee,   Braised  white,  sup.   sa.  gar.   w.   carrots, 

asp.  tips,  green  peas,  noisette  pot. 
Piemontaise,  Braised  or  saute,  on  piemontaise   risotto, 

mad.  sa.  w.  torn. 
Pilaf,  Chicken  cut  in  small  pieces  or  sliced  raw,  saut§ 

w.  rice,  Turkish  style. 
Poche,    "Poached",    French    term    for      cooking      white, 

smothered  white,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 
Planche,    Planked,    split    and    saute,    gar.    according    to 

name,  divers  sa. 
Plaza,  Stuf  w.  rice  and  ch.  livers,  braised  w,  mad.  sa. 

gar.  w.  gombo  and  stachy's  th.  gravy. 
Poele,   "Smothered",   Ancient   French   term   for   braised 

or  mode  of  braising  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 
Point-du-Jour,   Saute,   moisten  red  wine,  bourguignonne 

style  w.  capers,  fi-herbs. 
Polignac,  Stuf,  ch.  fo-meat  w.  jul.  of  truf,  braised,  after 

cold  cov.  chaud-froid  sa.  w.  mu.  puree  and  truf. 
Polonaise,    Stuf.  w.  breadcrumbs,  chopped  fennel,  parsley, 

roasted,  cov.  brown  butter  w.  crumbs,  gar.  w.  braised 

lettuce. 
Pondichery,  Braised  or  saute,  in  border  of  rice  w.  curry, 

cov.  curry  sa.  w.  torn,  and  sweet  pep.  cut  in  dice. 
Pontivienne,   Saute,   w.   art.,   bottom   and  apples   cut   in 

dice,  moisten  w.  cider,  fi-herbs. 
Portugaise,   Braised   or   saute   w.    chopped   onions,   mu. 

pound  tom.  moisten,  gar.  w.  stuf.  tom.  fil.  w.  risotto. 
Pot-Pie,  Same  American  w.  dumplings   (not  covered  w. 

paste.) 
Princesse,  Braised  white,  sup.  sa.  w.  asp.  butter  gar.  w. 

asp.  tips  and  sliced  truf,  dec.  ch.  quen. 
Primeurs,  Braised,  gar.  w.  new  veg.  in  season,  gravy. 
Printanniere,  Braised.  Cold  or  hot,  gar.  w.  fancy  spring 

veg.  stock  or  jelly  according  to  style. 

—  281  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Provengale,  Saute  in  oil  w.  pounded  torn,  garlic  olives, 

anchovies,  fi-herbs. 
Providence,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.  art.-bottom  in  quarters, 

olives,  stuf,  cucumbers,  Mad.-sa. 
Quo-Vadis,     Stuf.    w.    chop.    ch.    liver,     gizzard,     onions, 

tarragon.     Braised,  Cov.  w.  veloute     sa.     w.     French 

mustard  and   chopped     tarragon. 
Ravioli,  Braised.   Gar.   w.  Raviolis,  gravy  w.   torn.  Also 

chopped  ch.   enclosed  in  ravioli   paste. 
Regence,  Stuf.  w.  ch-  f-meat  w.  crawfish  culis.  Braised, 

white  gar.   Dec.   ch.   quen  truf.   all-sea.   trussed  craw- 
fish. 
Reine,    Braised,    white.    Gar.    w.    D'ec.    ch.    mousse    truf. 

mu.  and  ch-quen. 
Reine-Blanche,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  tongue  and  truf.  in 

dice.  Braised   all   sa.   w.   truf.   mu.   cock's   combs   and 

kidneys. 
Reine   M argot,  Same  M argot. 
Reine-IVlarguerite,  Stuf.  ch.  fo-meat  mousse,  braised,  gar. 

Dec.  mould  w.  daisies,  fil.  w.  mu.  puree.  Supr.-sa.  w, 

mu.  puree. 
Renaissance,  Braised.  Gar.  w.  fancy  veg.  all-sa. 
Risotto,  Braised  or  saute  in  border  of  risotto,  Mad-sa.  w. 

tom. 
Ritz,   Braised.    Same   Albufera,   in   Cocotte.    Closed   with 

lute. 
Riz,  "Rice",  Boiled,  braised  w.  rice.  All-sa. 
Rosa   Bonheur,   Braised,  gar.   w.   mu-head.   truf.   oysters, 

Nantua-sa.  Dec.  crawfish  quen. 
Rohan,    Braised.    Gar.   w.    fo-gras,    stud.    w.    truf.    Tarte- 

lette  fil.  w,  cock's  combs  and  kidnys.  All-sa. 
Rose  IVIarle,  Braised  when  cold  cov.  w.  chaud  froid  sa. 

w.    paprika,   Dec.   gar.   w.   ham   fo-meat   mousse.   Dec. 

w.  truf.,  jelly  around. 
Rose  de   Mai,  Braised  white.  Cov.  w.  white  chaud-froid 

sa.  Dec.  w.  truf.  white  of  egg,  ch.  mousseline  w.  tom. 

jelly  around. 
Rossini,  Braised.  Gar.  w.  slices  of  fo-gras,  and  noodles. 

Mad.-sa. 
Roti,  Roasted  on  spit,  in  oven  or  pan,  butter  and  gravy. 

Natural  juice  is  the  best. 

—  282  — 


POULTRY 


Romaine,  Saute,  moisten  brandy  and  wine,  veloute,  gar- 
lic, butter  and  fi-herbs. 

Roumaine,  Saute.  Moisten  w.  vinegar,  raisins,  demi- 
glace-sa.  fine-herbs. 

Saint-Cyr,  Braised,  when  cold  add  chaud-froid  sa..  Dec. 
gar.  w.  fo-gras  mousseline  and  boneless  lark,  stuf.  f- 
gras,  jelly  around. 

Saint-Lambert,  Braised  or  saute,  w.  matignon  mirepoix, 
moisten  wine,  tom-sa.  strained,  gar.  w.  pearl  size  car- 
rots and  fresh  green  peas,  chop,  parsley. 

Saint-Mande,  Saute,  moisten  wine.  gar.  w.  asp.-tips, 
green  peas,  macaire  pot. 

Samos,  Saute.  Moisten  w.  samos  wine,  pounded  torn, 
and  seedless  raisins. 

Santa  Lucia,  Stuf.  w.  truf.  Braised  w.  marsala  wine  gar. 
w.   sliced  f-gras  saute. 

Savary,  Breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  gar.  w. 
asp-tips,  cream-sa. 

Sec,  Carved.  Saute  w.  butter,  chopped  shallots  white 
wine,  ch-glace  and  fine  herbs. 

Servia,  Saute  w.  sliced  mu.  in  border  of  rice.  Mad.-sa. 
w.  fi-herbs. 

Sicilienne,  Braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  macaroni  w.  culis 
of  beef,  f-gras,  and  truf.  cut  in  dice  cock's  combs  and 
kidneys.  Mad-sa.  w.  tom. 

Signora,  Saute  w.  mu.  pounded  tom.  lemon  juice,  fine- 
herbs. 

Signoret,  Saute  w.  mu.  and  truf.  Mad.  sa.  in  tureen. 
Closed  w.  lute. 

Sot-I'y-Laise,  "Nuts  of  back  of  chicken"  generally  used 
for  Patties  or  in  divers  sa. 

Souffle,  Braised  white.  When  cooked,  take  off  the 
breast  and  fil.  w.  ch-fo-meat  mousse  cov.  w.  the 
breast  and  poach.  Divers  gar.  and  sa.  Same  cold. 
Cov.   chaud-froid   sa.   Dec.  jelly  around. 

Southern  Style,  (See  "Mode  du  Sud"). 

Souvaroff,  Stuf.  w.  f-gras  and  truf.  Braised  in  tureen  w. 
truf.  and  Mad.-sa.  closed  with  lute. 

Stanley,  Saute  w.  shredded  onions,  moisten  w.  cream 
and  braised.  Strained,  add.  truf.  cut  in  dice.  Same  w. 
horseradish  gar.  w.  fried  bananas. 


—  283  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sylvana,  Stuf.   w.  field  mu,  saute  cooked  in  tureen  w. 

green  peas  French  style.  Cooked  45  to  60  minutes  in 

oven. 
Talleyrand,  Braised  white  w.  Mad.-sa.  gar.  w.  macaroni, 

th.  w.  f-gras  and  large  jul.  of  truf.  Mad-sa.  w.  truf. 
Tamale,   "Mexican"    Chopped    chi.   w.    pimento    sa.    and 

olives,  highly  sea.  rolled  in  corn  meal  mush,  enclosed 

in  corn  husks  and  boiled.  Served  hot. 
Taragonaise,  Saute  w.  ring  of  onions,  salt  pork,  french 

carrots,  moisten  w.  Malaga  wine. 
Tartare,  Deviled  and  broiled.  Tartare-sa.  or  Diable-sa. 
Terrine,  Cooked  in  tureen.  Divers  style,  boneless  stuf. 
Tessi noise,   Braised.   Gar.   w.   noodles.   Knob  celery,   th. 

gravy. 
TImbale,  See  under  head  of  mousse,  fo-meat,  etc. 
Tlvoli,  Braised.  aGr.  w.  stuf.  mu.  asp-tips  th.  gravy. 
Tosca,  Stuf,  w.  risotto  w.  f-gras  ,gar.  w.  braised  fennel 

root.  th.  gravy. 
Toulouse,   Braised   gar.   w.   mu-head.   truf.    quen.   olives, 

cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  small  sweet  breads.  All-sa. 
Tourte,  Ancient  term   for   "Vol-au-ent"   or  large  patties 

made  in   puff  paste.   Divers   garnishing. 
Trianon,  Braised  white,  gar.  w.   ch-quen.   four  different 

colors  in  bouquet.  Sup.-sa.. 
Truffe,    Braised.    Roasted,    saute    w.    truf.    according   to 

style.  For  roast,  chop  the  peeling  of  truf.  w.  leaf  lard, 

sea  add.  truf.  and  Mad.-sa.  stuff  chicken  the  day  be- 
fore roasting. 
Tunisienne,  Saute,  moisten,  gar.  w.  croquettes  of  ch.  li- 
ver and  gizzard,  th.  mad.  sa.  pot.  small  tom.  trussed 

crawfish,  mad.  sa. 
Tyrollenne,  Saute,  gar.  w.  pound  tom.  apples  in  quarters 

saut,,  nut  sausages,  th.  gravy. 
Valencienne,  Braised  or  saute,  in  border  of  risotto  va- 
lencienne  ,sup.  sa.  w.  tom.  sa. 
Vars'ovienne,   Saute  w.   chop,   onions,   pimentos   in  dice, 

moisten  white  wine,  chop,  fennel,  parsley  and  garlic. 
Vaucan,,  Saute,  w.  shallots,  moisten  w.  wine  pound  tom. 

chop,  taragon  and  chervil. 
Vendeenne,  Saute,  w.  small  onions,  moisten  white  wine, 

fine-herbs. 

—  284  — 


POULTRY 

Venitienne,  Braised  white,  gar.  w.  mu.  sliced  veal, 
brains,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys  venitienne  sa. 

Verdi,  Saute,  moisten  w.  asti  wine  in  border  of  piemon- 
taise  risotto. 

Vert-Pre,  Braised,  gar.  w.  green  peas,  green  asp.  tips, 
string  beans  in  losange  shape,  chivry  sa. 

Vichy,  Braised  or  saute,  gar.  w.  carrots,  vichy  style. 

Victoria,  Stuf.  w.  fo-gras  and  truf.  in  cocotte  or  tureen 
w.  noisette  pot.  th.  gravy,  closed  w.  lute,  or  saute  w. 
veloute  sa.,  gar.  w.  valencienne  rice. 

Vierge,  Braised  white  sup.  sa.  gar.  w.  cock's  combs  and 
kidneys  sliced  calf's  brain,  braised  sweetbread  white. 

Viennoise,  Braised  or  saute  w.  paprika  sa.  rice  separat- 
ely, or  breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  cov.  w. 
brown  butter,  slices  of  lemon  on  top. 

Villard,  Braised  white,  all.  sa.  gar.  w.  glazed  sweet- 
breads cock's  combs  and  kidneys  slices  of  tongue 
between. 

Villeneuve,  Saute,  moisten,  th.  gravy,  w.  tom,  sliced  mu. 
and  truf. 

Villeroy,  Cold  or  hot,  braised,  when  cold  carved,  cov.  w. 
villeroy  sa.  breaded  English  style  and  fried,  divers  sa. 
or  cold,  cov.  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  w.  jelly  around. 

Vincent,  Stuf.  w.  fo-gras  dipped  in  brandy,  braised  gar. 
w.  French  carrots,  art.  bottom,  asp.  tips,  stock  mixed 
w.  fo-gras  puree  and  almonds  butter. 

Virginia,  Saute,  moisten  w.  cream,  slice  of  Virginia  ham 
saute  on  top,  corn  fritters. 

Vol-au-Vent,  All  ch,  sliced  w.  divers  gar.  and  sa.  brown 
or  white  according  to  name,  and  served  in  large  patty 
shells. 

Waleski,  Saute  in  dec.  border  of  ch.  fo-meat.  All  sa.  w. 
sliced  mu.  and  sweet  peppers  in  dice. 

Washington,  Stuf.  w.  green  corn,  sweet  and  green  pep- 
pers, braised,  th.  cream  sa.  gar.  w.  crust  fil.  w.  cream- 
ed corn. 

Westphalienne,  Braised  gar.  w.  noodles  and  Westpha- 
lian  ham.  sup-sa.  or  all  sa. 

Westzler,  Saute,  in  rice  border,  all  sa.  w.  sliced  art. 
bottom. 

—  285  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Wilson,  S'aute,  moisten  w.  cream  gar.  w.  sliced  Virginia 
ham,  corn  fritters,  sweet  pot.  croquettes. 

Wladimir,  Cold,  stuf.  w.  fo-gras,  puree,  chestnuts  and 
truf.  braised  glazed  and  dec.  jelly  around. 

Windsor,  In  cocotte  mad.  sa.  gar.  w.  truf.  mu.  cock's 
combs  and  kidnej's,  tongue  in  dice.  Closed  w.  lute. 

Zingara,  Braised  or  saute,  zingara  sa. 

SUPREME    AND    BREAST 
Supremes    et   Ailes) 

For  supreme  and  breast  the  nerves  should  be  re- 
moved.    They  are  only  cooked  to  order. 

Filet  Mignons  are  incrusted  with  truffles  or  tongue, 
and   laid   on   the   breast. 

Breast  to  be  stuffed  on  top  should  be  first  lightly 
cooked  on  one  side,  and  lightly  pressed.  (Those  for 
complement   or   garnishingri   see   chicken). 

(For  abbreviations,  see  Chicken) 


Larded    Breast    of    Chicken 


Stuffed    Supreme    of    Chicken 

and    Filet    Mignon    incrusted 

with    Truffles    on    top 


Agnes  Sorel,  Poached  on  long  crustade  fil.  w.  sliced  mu. 

th.   all-sa.   gar.  w.  dec.  ch.  mousseline  w.  tongue  and 

truf,  ring  of  truf  and  tongue  around. 
Ailes,  "Wings"  Term  for  ailes.  Broiled  poached,  saute. 

Gar,and  sa,  according  to  name. 
Albufera,   Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  truf.   on   tartelette   in 

heart  shape  fil.  w.  albufera  rice.  Supr.  sa.  sprinkled 

w.  truf. 
Alexandra,  P.  sliced  truf.  on  top.  Cov.  Mornay  sa.  glazed 

gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  gravy. 

—  286  — 


POULTRY 


Ambassadrice,    Po.    Sup-sa.    gar.    w.    small    sweetbreads 

stud.  w.  truf.  asp-tips. 
Ambroise,   Incrusted  w.   truf.   po.   on   f.-gras   mousseline 

w.  truf.  mad.  sa.  Same  cold  w.  jelly. 
Americaine,   Breaded,   English   style   fried,   on   Newburg 

sa.   w.   ch.   glace.  Gar.  w.   terrapin   croquettes. 
Amphitryon,  Breaded  w.   chop.  truf.   Po.   on  mu.   puree. 

Mad-sa.  gar.  w.  slice  of  fo-gras. 
Andalouse,  Stuf,  inside  w.  ch.  salpicon,  filet  mignon  in- 
crusted  w.  sweet  peppers,  Orly  sa. 
Arlesienne,  Saute,  on  egg-plant,  in  heart  shape,  gar.  w. 

pound  torn.  French  fried  onions.  Demi-glace-sa.  w.tom. 
Bayadere,  Po.on  creamed  sliced  mu.  gar.  w.  large  dec. 

ch.  quen.  Slice  truf.  around. 
Beaufort,  Breaded,  broiled.  Gar.  w.  small  Toulouse  (See 

Chicken).  Sliced  tongue  in  shape  of  cock's  comb  trus- 
sed  crawfish   around. 
Belle-Claire,   Sliced   cold   breast   in   curry   sa.   w.   sliced 

mu.  and  sweet  pep.  in  dice. 
Belle  Helene,  Saute,  on  croq.  asp-tips  same  shape,  slice 

of  truf,  on  top,  gravy. 
Beranger,  Saute,  on  tartelette  fil.  w.  creamed  mu. 
Bigarade,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  truf.  mignon  incrusted 

w.   cooked  orange   peel.   Po.   Mad.-sa.   w.  orange  juice 

and  Jul.  of  lemon  and  orange  peel.   Gar.  w.   quarters 

of  oranges 
iBinda,  Incrusted  truf.  and  tongue.  Po.  on  tartelet  fil.  w. 

sliced  creamed  mu. 
Bodiska,    Stuf.   inside    w.    ch.     fo-meat     and    fine-herbs, 

breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  Bordelaise  sa. 

gar.  w.  wild  mu.  in  cream-sa. 
Boistelle,  Stuf.  inside  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  mu.  puree  and 

fi-herbs-  Po.  in  silver  timbale  or  crust  fil.  w.  creamed 

mu.  ring  of  ch-glace  around. 
Bragance,  Saute,  Moisten  w.  Port  wine  on  slice  bayonne 

ham,  covered  with  glass  bell. 
Bressoise,  Saute  on  chesnut  puree.  Mad.  sa. 
Californienne,  Stuf.w.  ch-  puree.  Gov.  w;      ch.     fo-meat 

stud.  w.   pure  gold  leaf  point  w,   truf.  in  the  corner. 

Gar.  w.  small  Toulouse.   (See  Chicken). 


287 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY  ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Caprice,  Cooked.  Cold,  cov.  w.  f.-gras  puree  and  chaud- 

froid    w.    Chivry    sa.    Dec.    checkered    on    top    w.    co- 
lored butter  on  small  Russian  salad.  Jelly  w.  truf. 
Carmelite  Po.  Cold,  chauf-froid  sa.  Dec.  w.  truf.  gar.  w. 

crawfish  mousseline.  Jelly  aroud. 
Carnot,   Stuf.   w.   f-gras  fo-meat  w.  truf.   mu.  ch.   glace, 

mignon  incrusted  w.  truf.  on  top.  P'o.  Montebello  sa. 
Champignons,    "Mushrooms".   All   supreme,    filet,   wings 

gar.  w.  mu.  brown  or  white  sa.  according  to  name. 
Chartres    (A    la),    Stuf.    inside   ch.    fo-meat   w.    taragon. 
Po.  Dec.  w.  scalded  taragon  leaf.  Th.  gravy  w.  taragon 

around  or  white-sa. 
Chaud-Froid,  All  wings,  etc.  Cov.  w.  chaud-froid-sa.  and 

dec.  according  to  article. 
Chimay,  Saute  gar.  w.  morils  and  as-tips.  Mad-sa. 
Chiselchurst,  Larded  w.  truf.  and  larding  pork.   Sup-sa. 

w.  sliced  truf. 
Citorsa,  Saute  w.matignons  in  jul.  Moisten  w.  Marsala 

wine.  Sup-sa.  around. 
Comtesse,  Incrusted  w.   truf.   Po.   gar.  w.  small  patties 

fil.  w.  asp-tips.  Sup.-sa.  w  truf. 
Cotelette,  Chicken  Salpicon.  Ch.  fo-meat     or  wings     in 

chop  shape.  Gar.  and  sa.  according  to  article. 
Contissees,  French  term  for  "incrusted".  Supreme  filet 

mignon   or   wings   w.   round   of   truf.   tongue,    orange 

peel,   etc. 
Cussy,  In  heart  shape,  saute  or  medallion  border  w.  ch. 

fo-meat.    Po.    gar.   w.   art.    bottom,   cock's   combs   and 

kidneys.  White  truf.  sa.  or  Mad. 
Deschanel,  Larded  w.  truf.  and  tongue.  Pot  on  croq.  ci 

hominy  mixed   w.   f-gras   puree,    same   shape.   Sup-sa. 

Saute.    Gar.    w.    cucumbers   w.    cream-sa.    fleurons   in 

puff  paste   around,   add   gravy. 
Dreux,  Larded  truf.  and  tongue.  Po.  gar.  w.  cock's  combs 

and  kidneys.  All  sa.  w.  truf. 
Duglere,    Cov.    w.    ch.    fo-meat.    Sprinkled    w.    truf.    Po. 

Sup.   sa.  w.  small  ch.  quen.  and  truf. 
Ecarlate,  Incrusted  w.  tongue.  Po.  on  slice  tongue,  same 

shape.   Sup-sa.  gar.  w.  ch.  quen.  sprinkled  w.  tongue. 
Ecossaise,  Stuf.  inside  w.  salpicon.  Po.  Ecossaise  sa.  or 

cold  chaud-froid-sa.  of  divers  colors. 


POULTRY 


Ecuyere,  Stuf.  inside  w.  salpicon,  mignon  incrusted  truf. 

and   tongue   horse-shoe   shape   on   top.      Po.      gar.    w. 

trussed  crawfish  bordelaise  style  around. 
Elizabeth,  Saute.  Sup-sa.  w.  slices  truf.  gar.  w.  cold  raw 
oysters  in  half  shell  around. 
Elysee,  Gov.  fo-meat  f-gras,  mignon  incrusted  w.  truf.  on 

top,  gar.  w.  green  asp-tips.  Sup-sa. 
E minces,  French  term  for  ch.  sliced  thin.  Sa.  and  gar. 

facultative  according  to  name. 
Epicurienne,  Larded  w.  truf.  Po.  glazed  on  slice  f-gras 

saute,  truf.  Sa.  w.  Xeres  wine. 
Escalope,   French   term   for   slices   of  ch.   breast  divers 

gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 
Estragon,  Po.  or  saute,  w.  taragon.  Divers  sa.  (See  Char- 
ties). 
Eventail  "Fan  shape".  Filet  poached.  When  cold,  cut  in 

slices.  Gov.  w.  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  dressed  fan  shape 

w.  jelly. 
Fantaisie,   Filet   po.   When   cold,   cut   heart-shape,   split 

fil.  w.  thin  celery  salad  w.  lettuce  leaf  and  sliced  ham 

same  shape.  Gov.  chaud-froid  sa.  made  w.  mayonnaise 

and   cream,   dec.   w.    taragon   leaf   and   pickles.    Jelly 

around. 
Favorite,  Heart  shape,  saute  on  sliced  fo-gras,  gar.  w. 

green  asp.  tips,  Golbert  sa. 
Filet   Mignon,  French  term  for  filet  mignon  on  top  of 

Supreme.    (See  breast  in  picture.) 
Financiere,   Stuf,   in   side,   ch.   fo-meat  mousse,   w.   truf. 

gar.  financiere.  (See  Ghicken). 
Florentine,   Po.   on   branch   spinach  cov.   w.   mornay   sa. 

glaced. 
Foch,  Heart  shape  dec.  w.  cross  of  honor,  on  slices  of 

fo-gras,  gourmet  sa.  gar.  w.  ch.  kidneys  and  truf.  Stick 

of   ch.    quen.    cov.    w.    gold   leaf. 
Fonds  d'Artichauts,  "Artichoke  bottoms"  All  wings  gar. 

w.    art.    bottoms,    according   to    name. 
Forestiere,    "Forest   style"    saute   gar.    morils,   wild   mu. 

saute  w.  butter  and  fi-herbs,  gravy. 
Frou-Frou,   Stuf,  in   side  w.   salpicon,   mignon  incrusted 

tongue  and  truf.  Po.  gar.  w.  small  rissole  of  ch.  art. 

bottom,  fil.  small  noisette  pot.  mad.  sa. 


—  289 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Gauloise,  Heart-shape   or   medallion  shape,     saute,     on 

elices  of  ham,  gar.  w.  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  gour- 
met sa. 
Georgette,  Breast   po.   or   saute   on   long   Georgette   pot. 

slice  truf,  on  top,  gravy. 
German ia,  Breast,  po.  on  noodle  saute  w.  ham,  cov.  mor- 

nay  sa.  baked. 
Golden    Gate,.    Same   Californienne.      Gar.   w.   asp.    tips, 

filiced  art.   bottom   saute,   small   Parisienne   Pot. 
Grant,  Broiled  on  deviled  ham.  Colbert  sa.  gar,  asp-tips. 
Grillees,  "Broiled".  All  wings  broiled  sa.  and  gar.  facul- 
tative. 
Harrisson,  Cov.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline,  dec.  w.  truf  po. 

on  terrapin  croq.  same  shape  Mad.-sa.  w.  orange  juice. 
Henri   IV,  Heart  shape  saute,  on  art.  puree,  sliced  truf. 

on  top,  bearnaise  sa.  around. 
Hongroise,  Saute  w.  paprika,  moisten  w.  cream  or  sup- 

sa.  rice  pilaf  w.  tom. 
Imperatrice,  Stuf.  in  side  w.  salpicon  cf  fo-gras,  cov.  w. 

ch,  fo-meat  sprinkled  truf.  po.  on  celery  puree  sup.  sa. 

w.  truf. 
Incrusted,   All   wings,    supreme    filet,    etc.    incrusted    w. 

truf.  tongue.  (See  contissees.) 
Indienne,  Saute,  on  indienne  rice,  curry  sa.. 
Italienne,  Saute  on  sliced,  tongue  same  shape  Italienne 

sa.  gar.  w.  art.  italienne  style. 
Jardiniere,  Saute,  gar.  w.  fancy  veg.  in  bouquet,  gravy. 
Jeannette,  Wings,  po.  dec.  w.  taragon  leaf,  on  slice  of 

fo-gras    pate   in    small    deep     silver    dishes     cov.    w. 

light  ch.  jelly,   or  hot,   cov.   fo-gras   fo-meat  dec.   sup- 

sa.  w.  truf. 
Judic,   Heart  shape,   po.   on  slice  ham,   gar.   w.   braised 

lettuce,  slice  truf.,  on  top,  ch.  kidneys  around,  gravy. 
Jules  Janin,  Saute  on  sliced  mu.  moisten  w.  veloute  sa. 

and  fo-gras  puree,  chopped  parsley. 
J  off  re,  Stuf,  in  side  mu.  puree  cov.  ch.  fo-meat  on  top, 

stud  w.  pure  gold  leaf,  po.  gar.  w.  creamed  mu.  and 

stick  of  ch.  quen.  cov.  w.  gold  leaf 
Kimball,  Breast  sliced  cold,  in  cream  sa.  w.  green  and 

sweet  pep.  boiled  pot.  cut  10  cent  size,  lobe  of  nuts 

on  top. 

—  290  — 


POULTRY 

King,  Breast  of  ch.  sliced  cold.  (See  sweetl^read) ,  or  th, 

Newburg  sa.  w.  mu.  green  and  sweet  pep.  slice  truf  on 

top. 
Lorenzo,  Incrusted  w.  truf.  po.  gar.  w.  stuf.  olives,  art. 

bottom  in  4  truf.  wild  mu.  Mad.  sa. 
Lucullus,  Incrusted  w.  truf.  po.  on  slices  of  fo-gras  saut^, 

gar.  w.  truf.  cooked  w.  Champagne  around,  lucullus  sa. 
Lyonnaise,  Saute  on  slices  of  salt  pork,  gar.  w.  braised 

chestnuts,  mad.  sa. 
Marceau,   Stuf.   in   side   ch.   fo-meat  w.   fo-gras   filet  in- 
crusted truf.  on  top.  Po.  gar.  w.  mu.  head.  Mad.  sa. 
Marechale,   Breaded   w.   chopped   truf.   po.   gar.   w.   asp. 

tips,  w.  Jul.  of  truf.  or  breaded  English  style  gar.  w. 

Toulouse   sa. 
Margoton,  Breast  po.  when  cold,  cov.  chaud-froid  sa.  w. 

curry,  sprinkled  w.  coral,  in  mould  surrounded  w.  jelly 

and  dec.  w.  hard  eggs  and  gerkins  filled  w,  jelly. 
Marie-Antoinette,  Po.  gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  green  peas,  mu. 

art.  bottom,  in  4  small  noisette  pot.  Hongroise  sa. 
Marie-Louiss,  Heart-shape,   stuf.   in  side  mu.   puree,  po. 

on  art.  puree,  sup.  sa.  w.  soubise. 
Marie-Therese,  Po.  on  pilaf  rice  w.  ch.  in  dice  and  slices 

of  tongue  on  top,  sup.  sa. 
Maryland,  Breaded  and  fried  in   butter,  same   chicken. 
Mascotte,    Saute   gar.    w.    art.    bottom    fil.    w.    pot.   and 

truf.    pearl    size. 
Medaillon,  Medallion  shape,  dec.  po.  or  saute,  gar,  and 

sa.  according  to  name. 
Medicis,  Stuf.  in  side  w,  fo-gras  salpicon  filet  incrusted 

truf.  po.  gar.  mu.  truf.  olives  and  ch.  quen. 
Mexicaine,  Po.  w.  matignon.     Cooked,  then  put  in  papil- 

lotte  style  w.  ham  and  Mexicaine  sa. 
Mignon   or   Mignonette,  Cut  in  small  filet  mignon,  dec. 

on  art  bottom,  fil.  w.  ch.  puree,  sup.  sa. 
Mirabeau,  Stuf,  inside  w.  duxel  w.  truf,  po.  breaded  En- 
glish style,  fried,  gar.  w.  small  Toulouse. 
Mireille,   Saute,   on  Anna   pot.   gar.   w.   pound,  tom.   art. 

bottom  in  4,  cov.  w.  browned  butter. 
Monarque,  Saute,  on  slice  of  fo-gras,  saute,  whole  truf. 

cooked  w.  champagne.  Lucullus  sa. 

—  291  — 


G  ANGEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Montagnac,  Larded  truf.  and  tongue,  po.  on  art,  puree, 

Mad.-sa. 
Montaigne,  Stuf,  in  side  w.  puree  soubise,  breaded,  En- 
glish style,  fried  in  butter  on  pot.  puree,  Mad-sa. 
Montpensier,  Breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter,  gar. 

w.  asp.  tips,  slice  truf.  on  top,  browned  butter. 
Mordkin,  Saute  w.  sliced  mu.  and  paprika  moisten  ere. 

sliced  truf.  around. 
Nonette,  Wing  paupiette  style,  rolled  boneless  reed  bird 

in  center  stuf  w.  fo-gras  puree,  po.  in  crust  or  fancy 

basket. 
Oriental e,  Saute,  on  Oriental  risotto,  gar.  w.  stuf.  okra, 

chayottes,  sup.  sa.  w.  torn,  and  saffron. 
Only,  Breast,  pickled  w.  lemon  juice  and  oil  sea,  dipped 

in  batter,  fried,  orly  sa. 
Pajorski.  1  pound  of  raw  ch.   breast,  chopped  w.     half 

pound   butter,   sea.   reform   wing,   breaded   and   fried. 

Add   bread   crumbs   and   cream. 
Papillote,   S'aute   in   paper   case  w.   sliced  ham   and   th. 

duxel-sa.    Baked. 
Parisienne,  Heart  shape.  Po.  or  saute  on  slices  of  ton- 
gue.   Parisienne    sa..    gar.    w.    dec    quen.    tongue    and 

truf  and  ch. 
Parmesane,  Saute  on  polenta,  or  bread  crumbs  and  par- 

niesan  cheese,  browned  butter. 
Patti,  Stuffed  inside  w.  fo-gras,  mignon  incrusted  truf. 

on  top.  on  puree  of  ch.  Sup-sa.  w.  chopped  pistachio. 
Paupiette,  Sliced,  stuf.  w.  fo-meat,  rolled.  Po.  gar.  and  sa. 

according  to  name. 
Perigourdine,  All  wings  or  breast.  Gar.  w.  truf.  or  Sa.  w. 

truf.  brown  or  white. 
Pique,  All  breasts,  larded  w.  pork,  truf,  tongue,  poached 

or  saute,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 
Polignac,  Po.  on  Sup-sa.  w.  jul.  of  truf.  and  mu. 
Poitrine,  Whole  breast,  larded  with  pork,  truf.  or  ton, 

according  to  style,  gar.  and  sa. 
Princesse,  Incrusted  truf.   and  tongue.   Po.   gar.  w.   art. 

bottom,  fil.  w.  asp-tips.  Sup-sa.  w.  asp-butter. 
Princiere,  Cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  sprinkled  w.  truf.  mignon 

breaded  w.  pistachio.  Po.  gar.  w.     cock's  combs  and 

kidneys,  whole  truf.  Sup-sa.  w.  pistachio  butter. 

—  292  — 


POULTRY 


Printanniere,  Po.  Gov.  w.  Chivry  sa.  gar.  w.  fancy  veg. 
Regence,  Po.  on  ch.  fo-meat  w.  crawfish  butter,  All  sa. 

gar.  w.  cock's  combs,  and  kidneys  whole  truf. 
Reine,  Gov.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline,  filet,  incrusted  truf. 

on  ovale  crustade,  fil.  w.  sweetbread  salpicon.     Sup. 

sa.  w.  truf. 
Riviere,  Larded  w.  truf.  and  larding  pork,  wrapped  in 

paper   dipped    in   oil.    Broiled    slowly.    Bordelaise     sa. 

served  separately. 
Richelieu,  Breaded,  fried  in  butter,  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter 

w.  truf. 
Rimini  Larded  w.  truf.  Po.  in  crust,  made  w.  puff  paste, 

same  shape  fil.  w.  mu.  puree.  All  sa. 
Rossini,  Saute,  on  slice  of  fo-gras,  truf.  sa. 
Sadi-Carnot,    Stuf.    inside   mu.   and   truf.    salpicon,   filet 

mignon  incrusted.  Ghoron  sa. 
Saint-Denis,  Stuf  inside  mu.  puree,  breaded,  broiled  or 

fried  in  butter,  on  sliced  creamed  mu. 
Saint-Germain,  Dipped  in  butter,     breaded,     broiled  on 

fresh  peas  puree,  pot.  noisette  around.  Bearnaise  sa. 
Saute,  All  Breasts  and  Wings  saute  or  fried  quickly  in 

butter,   gar.   and   sa. 
Sherry    Louis,   Same  "Grant".  Deviled   sauce. 
Sous  Cloche  "Under  Glass  Bell".  Gar.  and   Sa.   faculta- 
tive. 
Supreme,  French  term  for  breast  of  chicken,  gar.  and 

sa. 
Surcouf,  Stuf,  inside  ch.  salpicon.  Gov.  ch.  fo-meat,  dec. 

in  crust  boat  shape,  fi,  w.  Toulouse.  (See  Gh.).  Sup-sa. 

w.  crawfish  butter. 
Talleyrand,  Stuf,  inside  w.  f-  gras  fo-meat,  filet-mignon 
.  incrusted  truf.  Po.  in  crust  fil.  w.  macaroni  w.  f-gras 

puree,truf.  sa. 
Toulousaine,  Stuf.  inside  w.  f-gras,  filet  incrusted  on  top 

w.  truf.  and  tongue,  gar.  w.  small  Toulouse.  (See  Gh.) 
Turban  ou  Couronne,  Terms  for  dressed  w^ing  or  breast 

in  crown  shape,  or  in  dec.  Savarin  mould.  Fil.  w.  ch. 

fo-meat,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name,  use  mousse- 
line. 


—  293  — 


CANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Valengay,    Stuf.   inside   w.    salpicon   of   truf.    th.   All-sa. 

breaded  English  style,  fried  in  butter  on  mu.  puree 

w.  truf.  gar.  w.  crust,  cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  mousseline,. 

cock's  comb  shape  po.  gravy. 
Valois,  Breaded  English   style,  fried  in  butter.  Gar.  vr. 

small  olives.  Valois  sa. 
Valeri,  Po.  cov.  w.  soubise,  breaded  English  style,  fried 

in  butter,   filet  incrusted  w  truf..   po.   and  placed  on 
top.  Mad-sa.  w.  mu.  and  truf. 
Verneuil,   Pickled.   Same   Orly.   On  Art.    puree,   gar.   w. 

bread  crust  fil.  w.  f.-gras  puree. 
Villeroy,  Po.  cov.  w.  Villeroy-sa.,  breaded  English  style, 

fried  in  butter  white  truf-sa. 
Wilson,  Breaded  style,  fried  in  butter  on  creamed  fresh 

mu.  gar.  w.  small  corn  fritters  and  small  round  pot. 

croquettes. 
Wolseley,  Stuf.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  w.  truf.  Po.  gar.  w.  asp. 

tips.  Sup-sa. 

DUCK   AND    DUCKLINGS 
Canards  et  Cannetons) 

The  domestic  duck  is  most  used  in  alimentation.  The 
Rouen  duck  is  world  renowned.  There  are  over  40  dif- 
ferent varietites  of  wild  ducks.  (See  game  for  prepara- 
tion). The  wild  duck  is  of  medium  digestion,  a  little 
heating  perhaps,  but  can  be  modified  by  its  culinary 
preparation.  The  patties  of  Amiens,  tureen  of  Nerac, 
and  Toulouse  are  made  of  duck's  liver.  Choose  only 
young  ducks,  or  ducklings  from  6  weeks  to  6  months. 

The  Rouennaise  smother  the  ducks,  so  the  blood  will 
stay  inside,  they  are  then  roasted  and  eaten  rare.  The 
Nantaise  eat  them  well  cooked,  braised  or  roasted. 

(See   abbreviations — head   of   Chicken) 

Aiguillette,    Roast,    carved   breast   in   aiguillette   divers 

garnishings  and   sauce. 
Anglaise,  Stuffed  English  style,  roasted,  served  w.  apple 

sa.  (See  Goose). 
Bigarade,   Braised,  orange   and   lemon  peel,   cut  in  Jul. 

orange  juice,  garnished  with  quartered  oranges. 

—  294  — 


POULTRY 


Braise  ou    Danube,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mu.     olives,     cepe 

chestnuts,   etc.,   or   divers   stuf. 
Chipolata,  Braised,  chipolata  garnishings  (See  chicken). 
Cocotte,  In  cocotte.  "Same  Chicken". 
Coquilles  In  shell  with  border,  divers  styles. 
Cromesquis,  Salpicon  of  duck,  rolled  in  caul,  dipped  in 

batter,    fried,   divers    sauce. 
Croquettes,  Salpicon  of  duck,  breaded  and  fried  divers 

garnishings  and  sauce. 
Danoise,  Stuffed  w.  apples  and  raisins,  roast,  garnish  w. 

baked  apples  in  quarters,  thick  gravy. 
Dauphinoise,  Braised,  garnish  w.  small  onions  and  ches- 

nuts,  thick  gravy. 
En  Chemise,  Stuf.  Put.  in  bladder  Po.  1  hour.  Divers  sa. 

and  gar.  •  •  '^ 

Grille,  Split,  broiled,  divers  garnishings. 
Menthe,  Braised  or  roasted,  mint  sauce. 
Moliere,  Boneless,  stuffed  w.  gratin,  chicken  force-meat 

and  truf.,  braised      Mad.-sa.  w  truf. 
Mousse,    (See    "Volaille"   under   head     of   "Forcemeat" 

also  und«r  head  fo  Timbales  and  Mousseline.) 
Navet,  Braised  w.  glazed  turnips,  th.  gravy. 
Nivernaise,  Braised,  gar.  w.  glazed  turned  carrots,  thick 

gravy 
Olives,  Braised  w.  pitted  olives,  w.  or  without  stuffing, 

thick,  Madera  sauce. 
Orange,,  Roasted  or  braised,  quarters  of  oranges  around, 

gravy  with  orange  juice. 
Pate,   (See  "Volaille"  under  head  of  "Patties",  "Vol-au. 

Vent",  or  Pie.) 
Presse,   Roast   rear,   take   off   Supreme,   press   carcass: 

serve  the  extracted  juice  with  the  supreme.  Rouennai- 

se  sauce. 
Quenelles,  (See  fo-meat,  also  same  under  head  of  "Tim- 
bales  and  Mousselines.") 
Roti,  Roast,  with  gravy.  Stuffed.  Divers  style. 
Rouen naise.  Stuffed  w.  chopped  liver  and  shallots,  roast 

rear,  Rouennaise  sauce.  (See  Presse). 
Salmis,  Roast,  carved,  salmis  s.  w.  mu.  truf. 
Savoyarde,    Braised,    w.    cepes,    chestnuts,    pounded    to- 
matoes, thick  gravy. 


—  295 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Supreme  Breast  or  wings,  divers  styles.  (See  ch.  wing.) 
Terrine,  In  Tureen,  hot  or  cold.  Divers  style. 
Timbale,    (See    "Volaille"    under    head    of   fo-meat    and 

"Mousseline.") 
Vol-au-Vent,   (See  "Volaille"  under  head  of  "Patties.") 

GOOSE 

(Oie) 

The   goose   is  very   highly    esteemed    for    the    liver. 
Choose  a  goose  betwwen  8  and  12  months  old. 

Geese   that   are   fattened   especially   for   the  liver,   to 
make  foie  gras,  have  no  value  whatever  in  any  other 
culinary  preparations  and  are  only  edible  when  put  into 
conserve.  (See  Geese  Confit.) 
Allemande,  Stuf.  w.   sliced  apples  saute  w.  butter  mix. 

w.  muscat  raisins,  cinamon.  Roasted. 
Alsacienne,    Stuf.   w.   pork   forcemeat,   braised,   gar.    w. 

choucroute  th.  puree  cf  fo-gras. 
Anglaise,  Stuf  w.  chopped  onions,  bread  crumbs,  sage, 

seasoned,  cop.  ham  or  bacon,  roasted,  apple  sa.,  served 

separately. 
Braise  ou   Daube,  Gar.  w.  chestnuts,  turnips,  Flamande, 

chipolata,  noodles,  etc. 
Civet    (See   Hare,  Game)    carved. 
Conflte,  Carve  the  goose  raw,  salt  and  spice,  let  stand 

24  hours,  wash  afterwards,  melt  the  fat,  put  pieces  in 

and  cook  2y2  to  3  hours,  put  in  jar  and  cover  with  fat. 
Vise,  Fricassee  style  w.  garlic  puree  and  cream. 

NOTE. — For  complement  of  gar.  and  sa.  (See  Duckling) 

FOIE-GRAS 
(Fatted   Goose   Liver) 

Braise,  Braised,   moisten,   divers   garnishings. 

Caisse,   Salpicon,   cut  in  dice,  or  sliced.   Divers  sauces. 

Escalope,  Sliced,  sprinkled  w.  flour,  saute,  divers  gar- 
nishings and  sauces. 

Financiere,  Incrusted  w.  truf.  braised.  Financere  sauce. 
(S'ee  Chicken.) 

IViousse,  (See  under  head  of  "Timbales"  and  "Mousseii. 
lines"  hot  or  cold,  dec.) 

—  296  — 


POULTRY 

Parfait,    Use  Parfait  in  can  (Best  brand.) 

Pate,  Pie,  in  rust,   Strasbourg  style. 

Perigueux,  Incrusted  w.  truf.  braised,  garnished  w.  truf. 

Puree,  Trimmings  of  goose  liver,  cooked  and  strained, 
seasoned. 

Sainte-AI Nance,  Braised  in  tureen,  garnished  truf.  w. 
Champagne. 

Souffle,  (See  under  head  of  "Timbales"  and  "Moussell- 
lines.") 

Terrine,  Cooked  in  tureen,  cold  or  Pate. 

Timbale,  (See  under  head  of  "Timbales  and  "Mousse- 
lines.") 

Vol-au-Vent,  Sliced,  saute  w.  mu.  and  truf.  (See  under 
head  of  "Patties". 


Fresh    Goose    Liver    incrusted    with    Ti'uffles 


GUINEA   HEN) 
(Pintarde) 

The  guinea  hen  has  not  the  'same  value  as  the  phea- 
sant in  culinary  preparation,  and  is  considered  an  inter- 
mediary^ of  the  turkey,  and  pbesant.  The  preparation 
is  the  same  as  poultry. 


Guinea    Hen 
—  297  — 


OANCEL'S   CULINARY  ENCYCLOPEDIA 

OSTRICH 

(Autruche) 

Ony  the  breast  of  the  young  ostrich  is  edible  and  is 
prepared  the  same  as  turkey  or  chicken. 


Peacock 


PEACOCK 

(Paon) 

The  meat  of  the  young  peacock  is  not  very  tempting 
and  the  old  ones  cannot  be  eaten  at  all,  It  is  prepared 
the   same   as   pheasant.     The   feathers   are   cured   with 

—  298  — 


POULTRY 


alum;    make   the   tail   in   shape   of   a   fan,   spread   on   a 
table,  press  with  a  heavy  weight  and  let  dry  thoroughly, 

SQUABS  AND   PIGEONS 

(Pigeon  et  Pigeoneau) 

According  to  the  epicure  there  are  only  two  ways  of 
cooking  pigeons,  roasted  or  with  new  peas.  You  can 
tell  a  young  pigeon  by  the  red  feet  and  soft  beak.  Never 
bleed  pigeons,  always  smother.  (See  poultry  for  com- 
plement of  garnishings).  The  young  pigeon  is  noted 
for  its  d'elicacy  of  flesh  and  easy  digestion, 

SQUAB 
(Abbreviations.     See  head  of  Chicken). 

Africa ine,  Saute  or  broiled,  truffle  sauce  gar.  with  ch. 

quen,  sweet  peppers  in  dice  and  egg-plant  saute. 
Amboise,   Cut  in   quarters,   saute,   artichokes   and   truf. 

on  croutons,  Mad-sa. 
Aspic,  Same  chaud-froid  in  dec.  mould  fil.  w.  jelly. 
Bailotine,  Boneless,  stuffed  divers  stuffing,  divers  gar- 
nishings and  sauces. 
Bordelaise,  Split,  saute  w.  artichokes  and  potatoes,  cut 

in  dice. 
Bouchees,  Salpicon  cut  in  dice,  divers  garnishings  and 

sauces.  (See  Bouchees), 
Briand,  Boneless,  stuffed,  braised,  with  tomatoes  saute, 

gourmet  sauce. 
Caroline,  Sliced  with  boneless  terrapin,  in  border  of  rice 

Maryland  sauce. 
Casserole    or    Cocotte,    In    casserole    or    cocotte,    divers 

stlyes. 
Cendriiion,  Split,  saute,  covered  with  sausage  meat  and 

truffles,  rolled  in  caul,  breaded,  broiled,  truffle  sauce. 
Chartreuse,  In  dec.  mould,  with  vegetables,  braised,  fil. 

w.  braised  cabbage.  Madera  sa.  Divers  style. 
Chaud-Froid,   Boneless,   roasted   or   braised,    chaud-froid 

sa.  decorated  jelly  around. 
Chipoiata,  Braised,  gar.  same  chicken. 
Champignons,  Braised,  gar.  w.  mushrooms  or  wild  mu. 

etc. 

—  299  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Compote,  Braised  or  roasted,  gar.  with  salt  pork,  small 
glazed  onions,  mushrooms,  Madera  sauce. 

Concombres,  Braised,  broiled  or  roast,  garnish  w.  cu- 
cumbers or  saute. 

Cotelette,  S'plit  in  half  chop  shape  or  salpicon  in  chop 
shape,  same  as  croquettes,  gar.  and  sa. 

Crapaudine,  Split  in  frog  shape,  saute,  breaded,  broiled 
Deviled  sauce. 

Crispi,  Boneless,  stuffed,  saute,  garnished  with  mush- 
rooms,  truf.   and  ham,   hot  ravigote   sa. 

Cromesquis,  Salpicon  rolled  in  caul,  dipped  in  batter 
fried.  Divers  sauces. 

Desosse,  Boneless,  braised,  broiled,  saute,  divers  gar. 
and  sa. 

Diplomate,  Boneless  poached,  cov.  w.  villeroy  beraded, 
fried,  gar.  w.  quenelles  of  squab,  mushrooms,  and 
truffles,  madera  sa. 

Duxelles,  Boneless  stuffed  w.  duxelles,  breaded,  fried 
Colbert  sauce. 

Estouffade,  In  tureen,  gar.  sliced  mushroom,  small 
glazed  onions,  thick  gravy.  Close  w.  lute. 

Farcis,  Stuffed,  roasted,  braised  ,boneless,  divers  stuf- 
fings, gar.  and  sauces. 

Financiere,  Braised,  garnished  w.  small  financiere.  (See 
Chicken). 

Flourens,  Stuffed  w.  marrow,  ham,  crumbs,  fine  herbs, 
braised,  garnished  with  glazed  sweetbreads  on  arti- 
choke bottom,  thick  gravy. 

Galantine,  Same  ch.  galantine  w.  jelly  or  aspic. 

Gauthier,  Split,  saute,  cov.  w.  chicken  forcemeat  w.  truf. 
breaded,  broiled,  Nantua  sauce. 

Gelinotte  (En),  Hazel  grouse  style.  Breast  only  roasted 
on  canape  of  f-gras,  heart  shape  add  head  w.  eyes, 
gar.  and  sauces. 

Graze!  I  la,  Boneless,  stuf.  w.  fo-meat,  po.  in  cocotte  w. 
asti  wine,  seedless  fresh  grapes  and  art.  bottom,  cut 
in  4.  Close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Grille,  Broiled,  gar.   and   sa. 

Impromptu,  Cut  in  four,  saute  w.  shallots,  moisten,  fine 
herbs. 

—  300  — 


POULTRY 

Italienne,  Braised,  Italian   sauce  with  ham  cut  in  dice 

garnished  w.  artichokes  cut  in  4. 

La  Valliere,  Braised,  gar.  w.  green  peas  ham  and  small 
glazedonions,  madera  sauce. 

Mascotte,   Boneless   or   carved,   same   chicken. 

Medaillon,  Braised,  cov.  w.  chaud-froid  sa.  dec.  jelly 
or  hot,  dec,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 

Minute,  Cut  in  four,  saute  w.  mushrooms,  moisten,  fine- 
herbs. 

Monaco,  Cut  in  four,  saute  w.  mu.  truf.  art.  gravy. 

Mousse  and  Mousseline,  Same  chicken.  (See  Mousse.) 

Nesles,  Split,  saute,  cov.  w.  fo-meat  gratin  w.  truf.  gar> 
w.  sweetbreads  stuf.  mu.  w.  ch.  puree,  mad.  sauce. 

Olives,  Braised,  gar  w.  stuf.  olives,  madera  sauce. 

Papillote,  Split  or  boneless,  saute,  cov.  w.  th.  duxelles 
sa.  sliced  saute  ham  in  papillote,  bake. 

Pates,  Hot  or  cold,  same  chicken. 

Petit  Pois,  Braised,  broiled,  saute,  roast,  gar.  w.  green 
peas  according  to  name. 

Polonaise,  Roasted.  S'ame  chicken. 

Printanniere,  Braised,  roasted  gar.  w.  spring  vege.  or 
fancy  mixed  veg.  th.  gravy. 

Racine,  Braised,  gar.  w.  bouquet  of  Jul.  of  carrots,  tur- 
nips, celery  and  glazed  small  onions  between,  gravy. 

Raisins,  Braised,  gar.  w.  peeled  seedless  fresh  grapes  in 
cocotte,  close  w.  lute,  baked  or  w.  dry  Malaga  raisins 
with  brown  sauce. 

Richard,  Boneless  in  cocotte.  (See  quail  Richelieu), 

Roti,  Roasted  on  spit,  in  oven  or  pan,  stuffed  faculta- 
tive, butter  or  gravy,  gar.  w.  cress. 

Salmis,  Roasted,  carved  in  4,  salmis  sa,  w.  mu.  truf. 
crust  stuf..  w.  fo-meat  gratin. 

Saint-Charles,  Larded  tongue,  braised,  gar.  w.  stuf.  mu. 
th.  gravy. 

Saute,  French  term  for  fried  in  butter,  gar.  and  sauce 
facultative. 

Sevigne,  Split,  saute,  stuf  w.  ch.  salpicon,  breaded, 
fried,  gar.  w.  asp.  tips,  madera  sauce 

—  301  —       ■ 


G  ANGEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

SousXIoche,  Boneless,  stuf.  f-gras,  saute,  moisten  w. 
mad.  and  gravy-  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name.  Under 
glass. 

Stan i las,  Split,  saute,  stuf.  w.  f-meat  gratin  breaded, 
fried,  all  sa.  w.  sliced  truf.  mu.  and  chopped  olives. 

Supreme,  See  en.  wing  and  supreme  gar.  and  sa.  facul 
tative. 

Sylvain,  Cut  in  four,  saute  in  casserole  w.  mu.  or  wild 
mu.  sage  leaves  savory  hebs  and  fine-herbs. 

Thiers,  Cut  in  four,  cooked,  pickled  in  lemon  juice  and 
oil,  sea.  dipped  in  batter,  fried,  gar.  w.  cauliflower 
saute,  piquante  sauce. 

Valenciennes,  Stuf.  w.  fo-meat  gratin,  braised  in  border 
of   rice   Valenciennes,    gravy   w.    tom. 

Verdi,  Boneless  stuf,  fo-gras,  po.  cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat 
sprinkled  w.  chopped  pistachio,  po.  on  puree  of  tom. 
in  crustade  facultative.  <- 

Villeroy,  Braised,  cut  in  tw^o,  cov.  villeroy  sa.  breaded 
English  style,  fried,  Perigueux  sauce. 

Vin,  Braised  or  saute,  moisten  divers  wine. 

Voi-auVcnt,  In  large  patty  shelle.  (See  Chicken.) 

Vivian ne.  Boneless  stuf.  f-gras,  braised  or  saute,  cov. 
Colbert  sauce.  Julienne  pot.  around. 

Wilson,  Boneless  in  cocotte  w.  fresh  mu.  noisette  pot. 
gravy,  close  w.  lute,  baked. 

TURKEY    AND    YOUNG    TURKEY 

(Dinde   et   Dindonneau 

Turkey  is  cooked  the  same  as  chicken.  An  old  turkey 
should  be  boiled  or  braised,  young  ones  roasted  or 
broiled. 

However,  one  can  always  vary  the  preparations  and 
garnishinga,  such  as;  bourgeoise,  celery,  mushrooms, 
chipolata,  taragon,  financiere,  Godard,  jardiniere  and 
chestnuts.   — For   complement    (See   Poultry). 


POULTRY 

BREAST   OF  TURKEY    (My   last  creation) 

Gastronome,   Breast   of   turkey,    larded   and   roasted    w. 

butter. 
Duchesse,  On  w.  creamed  mushrooms,  gar.  w.  art.  bot. 

fil.  w.  green  peas  puree. 
Princesse,  Asp.  tips,  in  cream  and  truffles.  '    ■ 

Chatelaine,  Puree  of  chestnuts  and  puree  of  green  peas, 

supreme  sauce  w.  soubise. 
Comtesse,   With   sliced   artichoke   bottoms   in   cream..- — 

For  complement,   see  chicken. 

CHICKEN   GIBLETS 
(Abatis  de  Volaille) 

The  giblets  of  poultry,  such  as  chicken,  geese  and 
turkey  are  prepared  differently  from  those  of  meat.  The 
combs,  kidneys  and  livers  are  used  for  garnishings  of 
Vol-au-Vent,  Patties  and  Salpicon.  The  famous  Stras- 
burg  Pie  is  made  of  goose  liver;  also  it  is  prepared  with 
truffles,  braised,  saute  or  in  aspis. 

GIBLETS   (Abatis) 

Giblets  are  composed  of  wings  alone  or  with  the  neck, 
gizard  and  liver.  (See  Meat  and  Poultry).  They  are 
prepared;  bourgeoise,  bourguignonne,  chipolata,  fri- 
cassee, hochepot  with  onions  or  turnips,  printanier,  etc. 
A  different  variety  of  sauces  are  made  also.  The  liver 
is  prepared  brochette,  saute,  chasseur,  Creole,  coquille, 
pate  or  pilaf.  Chicken  liver  should  be  soaked  in  milk 
12  hours  before  using. 

COCK'S    COMBS   AND    KIDNEYS 

Soak  the  combs  in  cold  water  24  hours.  Scald,  take 
out  side  skin  off,  trim,  put  again  in  cold  water,  let  stand 
another  24  hours,  cook  in  white  stock.  Clean  kidneys 
and  cook  in  white  stock,  or  cook  with  combs.  They 
are  prepared,  broiled  on  skewer,  fried,  willeroy  or  saute, 
with  different  highly  seasoned  sauces. 

—  303  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


LARGE  AND  SMALL  GAME 

(Grands  et  Petits  Gibiers) 

Large  game  is  composed  of  deer,  reindeer,  elk,  bear, 
chamois,  wild  boar,  antelope,  etc. 

Small  game  is  composed  of  rabbits,  hare,  squirrel, 
raccoon,  guinea  pig,  opossum,  etc. 

Large  birds  are  composed  of  wild  turkey,  pheasants, 
prairie  hens.,  hazel  grouse,  heath  cock,  etc. 

Small  birds  are  composed  of  quail,  lark,  pigeons, 
plover,  rail  birds,  thrush,  reed  birds,  etc.,  water,  marsh 
and  forest  game. 

Hemarks.  (Game  of  black  meat  is  generally  eaten 
rare,  and  should  only  be  served  to  order.  There  are 
three  different  ways  of  cocking  game,  roast,  grilled  and 
sometimes  saute.  Let  mortify  for  two  days  before  cook- 
ing.    So  the  epicure  says.) 

Remarks.  (To  make  essence  of  game  use  bones  and 
trimmings  with  aromatics  and  vegetables.  Let  sweat  10 
minutes,  then  moisten  with  wine  according  to  article. 
Add  veal  juice  reduce. 

Game  should  be  cooked  and  served  instantly  off  the 
fire.  All  dark  meats  are  served  rare.  White  meats 
well  done,  or  according  to  desire. 

VARIOUS    BIRDS 

Grousse,  ptarmigan,  prairie  hen,  etc.,  broiled  or  roast- 
ed, served  with  bread  sauce  or  currant  jelly. 

Snipe,  ployer  and  woodcock;  broiled  roasted  or  saute, 
divers  styles. 

WILD  DUCKS   (Canards  sauvages) 

Wild  ducks  include  canvas  back,  red-heads,  mallard, 
ruddy  and  teal.  (All  wild  ducks  are  roasted  and  eaten 
rare,  served  with  currant  jelly,  fried  hominy,  some- 
times they  are  broiled.  Stuffing  occording  to  desire. 
Also  wild  rice. 

—  304  — 


LARGE   AND   SMALL   GAME 


The  supreme  of  wild  ducks  is  sometimes  saute  with 
wine,  but  do  not  boil  the  wine. 

Small  birds  such  as  the  woodcock,  snipe,  plover,  etc. 
are  never  emptied.  Take  out  the  gizard,  the  eyes  and 
pouch  only. 

TIME   FOR   COOKING  GAME 

Venison    ..    (well   done) 30  to  40  minutes 

Venison   (rare) 20  to  40 

Large  game.,    (roasted) 20  to  50 

Large  game   .  .    (broiled) 15  to  20 

Small   game.,    (roasted) 20  to  40 

Small  game   ..    (broiled) 15  to  30 

Large  birds   ..    (roasted) 45  to  1.15  hours 

Large  birds   ..    (broiled) 15  to  30  minutes 

Small  birds  . .    (roasted) 10  to  30 

Small  birds   ..    (broiled) 10  to  20 


SMALL  BIRDS   (Petit  gibier  a  plumes) 

(Abbreviations,  see  Chicken) 
Lark,  quail,  rail  bird,  reed  bird,  thrush,  partridges,  etc. 

Alexandra,  Boneless,  stuf.  f-gras,  fo-meat  in  timbale  of 
paste  w.  game  essence  and  madeira  closed,  baked. 


Small    Bird    ready    for    Roast 

Aspic,  Braised  or  roasted  in  jelly,  dec.  according  to 
style. 

Bohemienne,  Saute  w.  f-gras  in  dice,  in  crust  salmis  sa. 

Bonne-Femme,  Saute  w.  salt  pork  and  bread  crust,  mois- 
ten w.  cognac  and  burn. 

Cafe  de  Paris,  Cooked  in  emptied  raw  pot.  stuf.  w.  fo- 
gras,  cov.  w.  pulp,  mixed  w.  f-gras,  baked  1  hour  V2. 


305 


(lANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Caisse,  Stuf.  divers  styles  in  cases  w.  mu.  truf.  in  ju- 
lienne,  game   essence  and   madeira. 

Canadienne,  Saute,  gar.  w.  fried  apples,  salmis  sauce. 

Gendre  (Sous  la),  Stuf.  wrapped  in  buttered  paper,  cook- 
ed in  ashes  or  rolled  in  bread  paste.  Baked. 

Cerises,  Roasted  or  saute  w.  game  essence  and  pitted 
cherries  or  boneless  stuf.  (small  game)  cov.  w.  chaud- 
froid  sa.  in  small  case,  cherry  shape. 

Casserole  or  Cocotte,  Cook  in  casserole  or  cocotte,  gar. 
and  sauce  according  to  name. 

Coings,  Boneless  or  small  game  cooked  in  emptied  quin- 
ces served  with  jelly. 

Chatelaine,  Roasted  in  crust  fil.  w.  chestnut  puree,  sou- 
bise  sa.  and  essence  of  game. 

Charentaise,  Roast,  rolled  in  large  grape  leaf  and  lard- 
ing pork,  burn  w.  cognac. 

Chartreuse,  In  mould  dec.  w.  veg.  fil.  w.  braised  cabbage, 
thick  gravy  w.  essence. 

Chaud-Froid,  Boneless  stuf.  braised,  cov.  chauf-froid  sa. 
dec.  jelly  around,  whole  or  carved  in  dec.  mould  w. 
jelly  in  aspic,  etc. 

Christophe  Colomb,  Boneless,  stuf.  cooked,  put  in  egg 
shell,  fil.  w.  bird  salpicon,  on  round  crust  bread,  bird's 
head  producting  from  top  of  egg,  salmis  sauce. 

D'Aumale,  Game,  fo-meat  or  game  salpicon  chop-shape 
or  in  mould,  fil.  w.  fo-meat,  po.  and  sa.  w.  essence  and 
Jul.  truf.  and  mu. 

Dauphinoise,  Roast  on  puree  of  fresh  peas  and  sliced 
ham  saute,  th.  gravy  w.  essence. 

Feuille  de  Vigne,  Rolled  in  large  grape  leaf  and  larding 
pork,  roasted,  gravy  of  game. 

Financiere,  Braised  or  roasted,  gar.  w.  small  finahciere 
and  game  essence.  (See  Chicken  Financiere). 

Fine  Champagne,  Roasted  or  saute,  make  sa.  w.  intes- 
tins,  moisten  w.  fine  champagne,  highly  seasoned, 
generally  woodcock,  snipe,  etc. 

Gelee,  Roasted  or  braised,  with  jelly. 

Grecque,  Roasted  or  saute,  gar.  w.  risotto  greek  style 
or  rice  pilaf. 

Grille,  Split.  Broiled,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  style. 

Impromptu,  Saute  minute  w.  mu.  and  truf.,  moisten  w. 
essence,  on  canape  cov.  w.  game  fo-meat  gratin. 

—  306  — 


LARGE  AND   SMALL  GAME 


Judic,  Braised  or  roasted  en  braised  lettuce,  gar.  w.  ch. 
kidneys  and  truf.  gravy  w.  essence. 

Julie,  Split  saute  w.  chopped  truf.  rolled  in  caul,  bread- 
ed, broiled  w.  sour  grape  juice. 

Kleber,  Braised  or  saute  in  crust  w.  fo-gras  and  art.  in 
dice,  gravy  w.  essence. 

Liegeoise,  In  casserole  or  cocotte  w.  butter  juniper  ber- 
ries and  crust  of  bread.  Apple  sa.  glazed,  served  sepa- 
ratly,  thrush  prefered. 

Lilly,  Split  saute,  between  two  pieces  of  toast  cov.  w. 
fo-gras  puree,  moisten  w.  mad. 

Lucuilus,  Boneless,  stuf.  w.  f-gras  use  small  bird)  in 
emptied  raw  truf,  cov.  w.  truf.  pulp  and  Xeres  wine, 

baked  or  in  small  casserolette  baked. 

Marianne,  In  earthen  pan  w.  sliced  apples  and  crumbs 
on  top,  baked. 

Marquise,  Boneless  ,stuf.  w.  f-gras  in  cocotte  w.  jul  truf. 
in  gravy. 

Mace  re,  All  game  pickled  w.  divers  wines.  (See  pickled 
articles.) 

Manchester,  Boneless,  stuf.  w.  fo-meat  and  duxelles, 
rolled  in  caul,   broiled   gravy  w.   essence. 

Montreuil,  Boneless,  stuf.  peach  shape,  braised,  cov.  w. 
chauf-froid  sa  i^ white  ^/^pink,  in  basket  w.  jelly. 

Minute  Split  saute  quickly,  moisten  in  toast,  fine-herbs. 


Uirds  in  Nest 

Nid.,  Boneless,  stuffed,  braised,  divers  styles,  bird's* 
head  on  top  in  a  nest,  gravy  w.  essence,  cold  w.  chaud 
froid  sauce. 

—  307  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Normande,  In  emptied  apples  cov.  w.  apple  pulp  and  ci- 
der brandy,  wrapped  in  bread  paste,  baked. 

Panier,  All  small  game  in  basket,  made  w.  spaghetti  in 
potatoes  or  paste,  roasted,  braised,  hot  or  cold,  ac- 
cording to  style. 

Papillote,  Split,  saute,  cov.  w.  duxelles  and  slices  of 
ham   saute   in   paper   case,   papillote   style. 

Pate,  "Pie",  Cold  game  pie,  in  tureen,  or  hot  bouchees. 
Patties,  etc.  (See  Bouchees). 

Pauillac,  Split  saute,  on  canape  fil.  w.  game  fo-meat  or 
fo-meat  gratin,  moisten  w.  rhum  and  burn. 

Parmentier,  Boneless,  stuf.  w.  f.-gras,  rolled  in  grape 
leaf,  cooked  in  emptied  raw  potatoes,  baked. 

Paysanne,  Saute  w.  salt  pork,  small  onions  and  pot, 
cooked  in  tureen. 

Pere  Philippe,  Saute  w.  salt  pork,  same  Cafe  de  Paris, 
baked. 

Raisins,  In  cocotte  w.  peeled  and  seedles  fresh  raisins. 
Close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Riche,  Roast  w.  intestins  and  f-gras  pu.  (See  fine  cham- 
pagne.) 

Richelieu,  Stuf,  w.  truf.  in  tureen  w.  matignon  jui.  game 
essence,  close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Roti,  Rolled  in  grape  leaves  and  thin  sliced  larding  pork, 
tie,  roasted,  use  only  bird  gravy. 

Royal,  Boneless,  stuf.  f-gras,  dec.  royal  crown,  po.  sup. 
sa.  w.  essence  and  truf. 

Saint-Laurent,  Broiled,  deviled  sa.  souffle  pot. 

Saute,  Split,  gar.  and  sa.  according  to  name. 

Souffle,  (See  Mousse  fo-meat.) 

Souvaroff,  Stuf.  f-gras  in  tureen  w.  truf.  in  dice,  th. 
gravy  w.  essence.  Close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Supreme,  Incrusted  or  dec.  gar.  and  sa.  according  to 
name. 

Terrine,  "Tureen",  Cooked  hot  or  cold,  divers  styles. 

Turque,  Saute  w.  rice  pilaf.  Turkish  style. 

Vendangeuse,  Same  raisins,  put  in  basket  vineyard  style, 
juice  w.  essence. 

Veronique,  Braised  w.  raisins.  See  Raisins.) 

Vin,  Braised,  saute,  moisten  w.  wine,  according  to  name. 

—  308  — 


LARGE.  AND   SMALL   GAME 


Villedo,  Broiled,  gar.  w.  sliced  fried  apples,  salmis  sa. 
gar.  w.  art.  bottom  and  olives  in  bouquet. 

Villerau,  In  crust  fil.  w.  financiere.  (See  Chicken)  sal- 
mis sa.  gar.  dec,  quen. 

Vol-au-Vent,  (See  Chicken).  Gar.  an  dsa.  according  to 
game,  brown  sa.  w.  essence. 

LARGE    BIRDS    (Grand    Gibler  a    Plumes) 
Phesant,  Hazel,  Grousse,  Priarie  Hen,  Etc. 


Roast    larded    Pheasant    ready    to    serve 


Agnes  Sorel,  Larded  w.  truffles  and  tongue,  braised 
or  roasted,  sauce  salmis  w.  juli  of  truffles. 

Allemande,  Larded  and  pickled,  braised,  moistened  w. 
sour  cream. 

Anglalse  Stuffed  English  style  or  roasted,  bread  sauce. 

Angoumoise,  Stuffed  w.  chestnuts  and  truffles,  roast, 
truffles  sauce. 

Berchoux,  Supreme,  stuffed  w.  force-meat  gratin  truf. 
on  game  forcemeat  w.  puree  of  mushrooms,  madera 
sauce  with  essence. 

Bouchees,  (See  "Bouchees.") 

Bourguignonne,  In  casserole,  gar.  w.  small  onions,  salt 
pork  and  mushrooms,  bourguignonne  sause. 

Brabangonne,  Roast  or  braised  gar.  w.  mushrooms,  oli- 
ves, chipolata  sausages,  salmis  sa. 

Brillat-Savarin,  Roast,  on  crouton,  w.  woodcock  force- 
meat and  truf.  gar.  w.  quarters  of  oranges,  orange 
juice  with  game  essence. 

—  309  — 


CANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Brochettes,  Roast,  cut  in  squares  bacon  and  mushrooms 

on  skewer,  broiled,  divers  sauces. 
Canadienne,  Roast  or  braised,   salmis     style,     gar.     w. 

apples  saute. 
Casserole,  In  casserole,  divers  styles. 
Chaud-froid,    Roast    cov.    w.    chaud-froid    sa.    decorated, 

and   jelly. 
Chartreuse,  Larded,   braised,  in   mould  dec.   with  vege. 

braised  cabbage,  th.  gravy  essence. 
Choucroute,  Larded  in  mold,   filled  w.   sauerkraut,   thi. 

gravy  w.  essence. 
Cocotte,  In  cocotte,  divers  styles.  Close  w.  lute,  baked. 
Cotelette,    Chop    shaped,    salpicon   or   forcemeat   divers 

garnishings  and  sauces.   (See  salp.  and  forcemeat.) 


.•4 


Breast    of    Game 

Crepinette,  Salpicon  in  caul,  divers  sauces  and  garnish- 
ings, broiled  or  saute,  (See  Salpicon). 

Cromesquis,  Salpicon  in  caul,  dipped  in  batter,  fried,  di- 
vers sauces.  (See  cromesquis.) 

Croquettes,  Salpicon,  divers  garnishings  and  sauces. 
(See  Croquettes. 

Demi-Deuil,  Larded  with  truffles,  braised  Allemande  sa. 
with  truffles  and  mushrooms. 


—  310 


LARGE  AND   SMALL   GAME 


Demidoff,  See  "Demidoff"  under  head  of  "Chicken". 

Daube,  Old  fashioned  way  of  braising,  moisten  with  wine 
in  earthen  pot,  close  with  lute.  (See  Beef  miscella- 
neous cuts.) 

Epigramme  Heart  shaped  filet,  breaded  with  truffles  and 
bread  crumbs,  saute,  garnished  with  puree  of  chest- 
nuts, thick  gravy  with  essence. 

Estouffade,  In  tureen,  with  aromatics,  divers  styles. 
Close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Fermiere,  In  tureen,  garnished  with  vegetables,  country 
style,  juice  with  essence. 

Financiere,  Larded  with  truffles,  financieere  sa.  and 
garnishing.    (See  "Volaille.") 

Georgienne,  Braised  with  fresh  walnuts,  grape  and  or- 
ange juice,  chopped  fennel  with  essence. 

Gastronome,  Same  as  "Brillat-Savarin." 

Grille,  Split,  broiled,  divers  garnishings  and  sauces. 

Impromptu,  Saute  quickly,  garnish  with  mushrooms  and 
truffles,  on  canape  of  forcemeat,,  moisten  with  Ma- 
dera Sauce  with  essence. 

Kleber,  Braised,  gar.  with  foie-gras  or  on  canape  or  foie 
gras,  Madera  sauce. 

Lantrec,  Split,  broiled,  with  broiled  mu.  on  top,  on  ca- 
nape of  forcemeat  gratin,  thick  gravy. 

Louisette,  Supreme  po.  cov.  w.  villeroy  sa.  and  essence, 
breaded,  fried,  on  game,  mousseline,  truffle  sauce 
with  essence. 

Lucullus,  Larded  with  truffles,  braised,  garnished  with 
foie-gras,  truffles,  mushrooms,  cock's  combs  and  kid- 
neys. Lucullus  sa. 

Mousse,  Hot  and  cold:  divers  styles;  (see  under  head 
of  "Timbales.") 

Normande,  In  tureen,  on  sliced  apples,  with  cider  bran- 
dy, close  w.  lute,  baked. 

Pate,  Hot  and  cold;   divers  patties  in  crust  or  tureen. 

Piemontaise,  Braised  w.  Matignon  on  risotto,  piemon- 
taise,  salmis  sauce. 

Polonaise,  Roast  see  "Polonaise"  under  head  of  "Chic- 
ken." 

Quenelles,  In  decorated  forcemeat  quen.  in  croustades 
or  for  divers  garnishings,  sauces  according  to  name. 


311  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Regence,  Larded  w.  larding  pork  and  truffles,  braised, 
gar.  w.  dec.  game  quenelles,  regence  sa.  w.  essence. 

Roti,  Roast,  divers  styles,  on  fancy  bread  crouton. 

Salmis,  Roast,  carved  , salmis  sauce. 

Saute,  Carved  or  split,  divers  gar.  and  sauces. 

Sierra  Moreno,  Braised  w.  Spanish  ham,  cut  in  dice  and 
slices  of  Spanish  onions,  essence  w.  tomatoes  sauce. 

Souffles,  (See  under  head  of  "Timbales"  etc.  hot  o^ 
cold.) 

Souvaroff,  Stuffed  w.  foie-gras  and  truffles  cut  in  dice, 
in  tureen,  gar.  w. truffles.  Mad.  sa.  close  w.  lute  baked. 

Supreme,  Larded,  saute,  broiled,  divers  garnishings  and 
sauces,  stuffed  or  incrusted  truffles,  poached.  Divers 
gar.  and  sa. 

Terrine,  In  tureen,  divers  garnishings  or  cold  w.  jelly. 

Tete-d'Or,  Breaded,  broiled,  bearnaise  sa.  gar.  wi  cro- 
quettes of  chestnuts. 

Timbales,  Dec.  timbales,  divers  styles.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

Titan ia,  In  tureen  w.  black  grapes,  quartered  oranges 
and   pomegranates   juice   w.   essence. 

Vol-au-Vent,  (See  under  head  of  "Patties"  etc.) 

SMALL  GAME    (Petit  Gibier  a   Poil) 

Hare,  Rabbit,   Squirrel,   Raccon,  Etc. 

Aigre-doux,  Pickled,  roast  or  saute,  aigre-doux  sauce. 
Allemande,   Pickled,   roast,  moisten     w.     cream     when 

cooked. 
Anglaise,  English  style,  boiled  w.  salt  pork,  parsley  sa. 
Blanquette,  Carved,  gar.  w.  onions  and  mu.    (See  Blan- 

quette  sauce.) 
Chasseur,  Hunter  style  saute  w.  chasseur  sauce. 
Chretien,  Half  roasted,   cov.  w.  French  mustard,   sprin- 
kled w.  thyme  and  crumbs,  highly  sea,  baste  w.  butter, 

finish  to  roast. 
Civet,   Jugged,    divers   styles,   French  w.    wine,   German 

style   pickled   gar.   w.   pot.   dumplings.     Flemish  style 

stewed   w.    prunes,    etc. 
Cotelette,  Salpicon  or  forcemeat  in  chop  shape,  po.  gar. 

and  sa.  according  to  name.    (See  Salpicon.) 

—  312  — 


LARGE  AND   SMALL  GAME 


Dampierre,  Filet  incrusted  tongue  and  truf.  po.  and  ga- 
me puree,  gar.  w.  braised  chestnuts  and  small  glazed 
onions,  poivrade  sauce. 

Diane,  Saute  ,on  toast  with  game  puree,  gar.  w.  chest- 
nut puree  around,  diane  sauce. 

Filet,   Larded,   saute  or   broiled,   gar.   and   sa. 

Francaise  (A  la),  Stuf.  same  Royal. 

Genievre,  Roasted  or  saute  w.  pounded  juniper  berries. 

Gibelotte,  Civet  style  w.  small  onions,  salt  pork,  mu,  pot. 

Grille,  Split,  broiled,  divers  gar.  and  sa. 

Marine,  Pickled  w.  wine,  oil  and  lemon  or  vinegar  w. 
vege.  broiled  or  saute.  (See  Marinade.)  Divers  garnis- 

ings  and  sauces. 

Mirza,  Roasted,  saute,  or  broiled,  gar.  very  small  emp- 
tied apples  or  crab  apples,  po.  fil.  w.  currant  jelly.  Poi- 
vrade sauce. 

Montemort,  Saute  on  game,  fo-meat  mousseline,  gar,  mu. 
cepes,  mousseron,  coulis  of  game  w.  Marsalla  wine, 
same  medallion.   (See  Coulis.) 

Mousse  and  Mousseline,  (See  fo-meat,  gar.  and  sa.  ac- 
cording to  article. 

Noisette,  Small  round  filet,  saute  or  broiled,  gar.  and  sa. 

Pain,  Dec.  mould  fil.  w.  game  fo-meat,  gar.  and  sa  ac- 
cording to  name.   (Loaf  game).  — See  forcemeat. 

Pate,  Game  pie,  generally  large  in  long  mould,  when 
cooked  and  cold,  fil.  w.  game  jelly.   (See  forcemeat.) 

Perigueux,  Braised,  broiled,  roasted  or  saute,  gar.  w. 
truf.  mad.  sauce. 

Rable,  French  term  for  saddle  of  small  game,  larded 
pickled,  roasted,  gar.  and  sa.  facultative. 

Romaine,  Roasted  or  saute  w.  Romaine  sa.  w.  pignons. 

Royale,  Larded  whole,  stuf.  w.  game  fo-meat  and  truf, 
roasted,  gar.  w.  reed  birds,  morils  and  wild  mushrooms 
grand  veneur  sa.  (Stuffing  a  la  Frangaise). 

Saint-Estephe,  Sliced  after  cooked  w.  salmis  sa.  w.  ce- 
pes, served  in  silver  or  paste,  timbale. 

Sauce,  Braised,  saute,  roasted,  sauce  according  to  name. 

Saute,  Carved,  saute,  gar.  and  sa 

Souffle,  Game  fo-meat  mousseline.  (See  Mousse.) 


313  — 


G  AN  GEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sully,  Fillet  larded  in  crescent  shape,  po.  moisten  co- 
gnac, fil.  crescent,  w.  celery  puree  and  lentils,  sliced 
truf.  on  top.  Poivrade  sauce. 

Supreme,  Filet.  Broiled  or  saute  gar.  and  sa.  according 
to  article. 

Terrine,  In  tureen,  cold  or  hot,  game  force-meat,  cook 
in  tureen. 

Timbale,  All  game  served  in  silver  timbale  or  paste  or 
mousse  fo-meat  in  dec.  mould,  hot  or  cold. 

Vendome,  Saute,  one  side,  on  round  w.  game  fo-meat  i>o. 
gar.  w.  braised  chestnuts,  poivrade  sauce,  w.  sliced 
mu.  and  truf. 

LARGE    GAME    (Grand   Gibier   a    Poil) 

(Abbreviations:    See  Chicken.) 

Moose,   Bear,   Deer,   Reindeer,   Wild   Boar,   Etc. 


Cutlets    (Cotelettes) 


Aigre-Doux,  Broiled,  saute  or  roast,  Aigre-doux  sa. 

AUemande,  Pickled,  roast,  moisten  w.  cream,  strain  gar. 
w.  divers  puree. 

Athalin,  Broiled,  saute  or  roast,  poivrade  sa.  gar.  w.  cro- 
quettes of  apples. 

Baden  iBaden,  Pickled,  roast,  poivrade  sa.  w.  currant 
jelly.  Served  separat'ly,  stewed  pears. 

—  314  — 


LARGE  AND   SMALL  GAME 


Beaujeu,  Larded,  roasted,  gar.  w.  artichoke  bottoms, 
fil.  w.  puree  of  lentils,  glazed  chestnuts,  venison  sa. 

Cerises,  Broiled  or  roast,  poivrade  sa.  w.  currant  jelly, 
and  pitted  cherries. 

Chatelaine,  Broiled,  saute  or  roast,  gar.  w.  artichoke 
bottoms  fil.  w.  puree  of  chestnuts,  soubise  sa.  w. 
game  essence. 

Civet,  Game  stew,  jugged-hare   style  w.  mu.   salt  pork, 

glazed  onions. 
Conti,  Broiled,  saute  or  roast,  gar.  w.  puree  of  lentils, 

poivrade  sauce. 

Cotelette,  Chops,  broiled  or  saute,  gar.  w.  divers  puree 

or  sauces. 
Creole,  Broiled  or  roast,  gar.  w.  bananas  fried  in  butter, 

poivrade  sa.  mixed  w.  Robert  sa. 
Cumberland,    Broiled,    saute   or,   roast,    Cumberland    sa. 

hot  or  cold. 

Diane,  Saute  one  side,  cov.  w.  game  forcemeat,  dec.  on 

puree  of  chestnuts,  Diane  sauce. 
Flamande,  Saute  w.  apples  cooked  together. 
Gastronome,  Roast,  gar.  w.  mushrooms  and  stuffed  oil 

ves,  potatoes  gastronome,  Colbert  sa.  w. Marsala  wine. 

Genievre,  Saute  or  roast  w.  juniper  berries,  thi.  gravy 
or  butter,  serve  separately  apple  marmalade  glazel. 

Gigue,  Leg,  roast,  divers  sauces  and  garnishings  or  steak 
broiled  or  saute. 

Grand  Veneur,  Broiled,  roast,  saute,  gar.,  w,  puree  of 
chestnuts,  braised  celery,  Grand  Veneur  sa. 

Hongroise,  Saute,  paprika,  sauce,  moisten  w,  sour  cream 
gar.  w.    timbale  of  rice. 

Italienne,  Broiled,  braised,   or  roasted,   Italian   sauce. 

Lyonnaise,  Broiled,  roasted  or  saute,  gar.  w.  croquettes 

of  chestnuts,  salmis  sauce. 
Marine  Pickled,  divers  styles,  oil,  vinegar  or  wine. (See 

Marinade.) 

Mignon,  Trimmed  round,  broiled  or  saute,  divers  sa.  and 
garnishings. 

—  315  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Minute,  Saute  quickly,  moisten  w.  poivrade  sa.  and 
chopped  mushrooms,  fine  herbs. 

Montenotte,  Larded,  saute,  gar.  w.  braised  cucumbers, 
puree  of  lentils,  poivrade  sa. 

Noisette,  Broiled  or  saute,  divers  garnishings  and  sa. 

Poivrade,  Broiled,  roasted  or  saute,  poivrade  sa.  divers 
garnishings. 

Romaine,  Broiled,  roasted  or  saute,  Romaine  sa.  divers 
garnishings. 

Romanoff,  Broiled  or  saute,  braised  cucumbers,  gar.  w. 
puree  of  mushrooms,  cepes  w.  cream.  Poivrade  sauce 

Roti,  Roast,  divers  garnishings  and  sauces. 

Selle,  Saddle,  roast,  divers  garnishings  and  sauces. 

Saint-Hubert,  Saute  on  one  side,  stuffed  w.  game  force- 
meat, w.  sliced  mushrooms  saute,  rolled  in  caul, 
broiled  on  puree  of  game,  poivrade  sauce. 

Saint-Marc,  Larded,  saute,  gar.  w.  croquettes  of  chest- 
nuts, serve  cramberry  sa.  separately. 

Thierry,  Broiled,  roasted  or  saute,  gar.  w.  dec.  game 
quenelles,  olives,  poivrade  sa. 

Tyrol ienne.  Broiled,  roasted  or  saute.  Tyrolienne  sa. 

Valencia,  Saute  in  croustade,  gar.  w.  puree  of  game,  bi- 
garade   sa.   gar.   w.   oranges. 

Venaison,  Venison,  French  term  for  game. 

Vicomtesse,  Saute,  broiled,  gar.  w.  puree  of  mushrooms 
and  lentils,  poivarde  sa.  w.  cream. 

\/illeneuve.  Saute  on  one  side,  stuffed  w.  game  salpi- 
con  rolled  in  caul,  broiled  ,on  puree  of  game  w.  jul.  of 
truffles. 

Valkyrie,  Saute  on  Berny  potatoes,  mushrooms  gar.  w. 
Soubise,  poivrade  sa.  w.  cream. 

DIVERS  DRESSINGS   (Divers  Farces) 

Following  are  different  seasonings  for  dressings  ac- 
cording to  desire;  sage,  thyme,  bay  leaves,  carraway 
seeds,  cinnamon,  nut-megs  and  all  spices. 

Cooked  chopped  onions,  garlic,  parsley,  celery,  chives 
and  chevril;   add  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  soaked 

—  316  — 


DIVERS   DRESSINGS 


in  milk  or  water,  press,  and  add  sausage  meat  or  chest- 
nuts, oysters,  sweet  potatoes,  apples,  raisins,  risotto  ar 
green  corn,  according  to  desire.  For  cooking;  butter, 
lard,  eggs.  (Note.)  For  different  fancy  stuffings 
English  style  generally  made  w.  bread,  sage,  thyme, 
chopped   persley   and   seasoning. 

BIRDS  AND   GAME    (Oiseaux  et  Gibiers) 

Birds  and  game  stuffing  w.  foie-gras,  truffles,  force- 
meat gratin  or  duxelles.  (See  Mirepoix).  Wild  ducks 
stuffed  w.  bread,  wild  rice,  risotto,  onions,  celery,  rai- 
sins and  apples,  chestnuts,  sweet  potatoes,  etc. 

FISH    (Poisson) 

Fish  stuffing"  with;  fish  force-meat.  (See  poisson), 
oysters  crabs,  oysters,  chopped  boiled  eggs  with  bread 
crumbs  and  fine  herbs,  cooked  onions,  parsley,  aroma- 
tics  and  seasoning,  or  ordinary  bread  stuffing  for  a 
whole  fish,  etc. 

MEAT    (Viande) 

Meat  stuffing  for;  shoulder,  loin,  or  breast  of  veal, 
use  godiveau,  duxelles,  gratin,  sausage  meat,  calf's  liver 
(See  foie  de  veau).  Stuffing  for  suckling  pig;  sliced 
apples  saute  in  butter  w.  seedless  raisins,  cinnamon, 
risotto  or  ordinary  bread,  etc. 

POULTRY    (Volailles) 

Poultry  stuffing  w.  chicken  force-meat.  (See  volaille), 
add  foie-gras,  truffles,  cock's  combs  and  kidneys,  or- 
dinary bread  stuffing,  chestnuts,  sweet  potatoes,  risotto 
or  cooked  chopped  chicken  livers,  green  corn,  etc. 

VEGETABLES    (Legumes) 

Vegetable  stuffing  with  duxelles.  (See  mirepoix)  ri- 
sotto, sausage  meat  or  different  chopped  cooked  meats, 
etc. 

—  317  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 


VEGETABLES 


(Legumes) 


Fresh  vegetables  constitute  a  large  part  in  culinary 
art  as  there  is  always  a  new  method  of  preparing  them. 
The  preparation  of  the  same  vegetable  changes  each 
month,  according  to  its  age  and  how  tender  it  is.  One 
should  know  immediately  upon  looking  at  green  peas 
the  time  required  in  co-oking.  Each  vegetable  has  its 
own  particular  proprieties,  either  fresh  or  diT-  All 
green  vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  water  and 
salt,  and  kept  boiling  continually.  If  green  vegetables 
are  not  eaten  immediately  put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water 
and  keep  refreshing  them  to  prevent  turning  yellow  or 
black.  Dried  vegetables  should  be  put  in  soak  the  night 
before  and  then  cooked  in.  cold  water.  Boil  slowly. 
Vegetables  w^hich  turn  black  such  as  artichokes,  car- 
doons  and  oyster  plants  should  be  sprinkled  with  lemon 
juice  or  put  in  a    bowl    of    water    with    lemon    juice. 

—  318  — 


VEGETABLES 


Science  claims  that  vegetables  contain  phosphorous  and 
consequently  have  great  influence  in  alimentation.  The 
artichoke  is  good  for  the  livers,  beeets  for  the  brain: 
celery,  lettuce  and  leeks  are  remarkably  known  for 
their  properties.  Carrots  and  cucumbers  give  a  nice 
complexion,  cabbage  enriches  the  blood,  potatoes  make 
the  hair  grow.  The  Irish  and  French  Bretons  are  un- 
iversally known  for  their  beautiful  hair.  Vegetables 
may  be  eaten  freely  with  good  results.  Rice,  beans 
and  peas  contain  a  great  amount  of  nutrition  and  make 
good  blood,  and  should  not  be  adlowed  to  fall  in  disuse. 

Daniel  of  old  fared  well  and  looked  fair  on  lentils. 
Potatoes  deserve  all  the  practical  estimation  in  which 
they  are  held.  Through  not  very  nutritious,  on  this 
account  they  prevent  our  taking  excessive  nutrition  in 
other  forms.  Baked  potatoes  are  fine  and  palatable, 
however  prepared.  Potato  starch  pudding  is  one  of 
the  most  nutritious  and  easily  digested  articles  of  diet 
to  be  found.  Onions  are  palatable  and  wholesome.  The 
French  consume  them  freely.  They  are  especially  good 
in  colds.  The  ourang  outang,  when  suffering  from  a 
cold  eats  onions  raw,  in  great  quantities.  They  are 
aperient  and  their  syrup,  sv/eetened,  relieves  oppressed 
lungs  and  restores  suppressed  respiration. 

For  incipient  infantile  colds  it  is  admirable.  Cabbage 
digests  with  difficulty  and  yields  little  nourishment. 
Squash  and  pumpkins  are  good,  either  stewed  or  eaten 
as  sauce,  or  with  bread,  or  made  into  pies.  Cucumbers, 
radishes  and  immature  esculents  are  especially  inju- 
rious. To  children  they  often  prove  fatal.  Green  corn 
is  also  pernicious.  In  fact  w^ait  till  all  green  vegetables 
get  their  growth  and  virtue.  Vegetables  furnish  all  the 
nutritious  elements  required  in  the  vital  process.  j 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Art. — artichokes,  Bot. — bottom,  Bech. — bechamel,  Cov. 
— covered,  Dux. — duxelle,  Esp. — espagnole.  Gar. — gar- 
nished, Ita. — Italienne,  Jul. — julienne.  Mad. — madeira 
may. — mayonnaise,  mu. — mushrooms,  pot. — potatoes,  pu. 
puree,  sa. — sauce,  stuf. — stuffed,  torn. — tomatoes,  truf. — 
truffles,  vil. — villeroy 


—  319 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

TIME   REQUIRED   TO   COOK 

Baked— 10  to  20  min.     Potatoes  45  to  60. 

Boiled — 15  to  30  minutes,  or  more. 

Braised — 30  to  60  min.  or  more. 

Broiled — 10  to  20  minutes. 

Fried — 5  to  10  minutes. 

Saute — 10  to  20  minutes  or  more. 

ARTICHOKES   AND   ART.    BOTTOMS 
(Artichauts  et  fonds) 

The  artichoke  is  an  aliment  agreahle  to  the  taste. 
When  eaten  raw  it  is  tasteless  and  harder  to  digest. 
Cooked  it  is  the  contrary  and  when  prepared  according 
to  the  rules,  become  tender,  savourous  and  light.  Fol- 
lowing are  several  recipes  mostly  used  in  modern  cook- 
ing. 

NOTE: — Artichokes  should  be  trimmed  and  rubbed 
w.  lemon,  bottoms  should  be  turned,  cooked  in  boiling 
water  w.  salt,  lemon  juice  or  white  stock. 

Barigoule,   Trimmed,   emptied,   stuf.   w.   dux.   braised   w. 

wh.  wi.  stock.esp.  sa.  w.  tom. 
Beignets,  Bot.   cov.  w.  sa.   breaded  or  dipped  in  batter 

and  fried 
Boulangere,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  sausage  meat,  rolled  in  paste, 

dumpling  style,  baked,  1  hour. 
Bouillie,    Boiled    hot,    hollandaise    sa.    melted   butter    or 

cold  w.  may,  sa.  mustard  sa.  in  oil,  etc. 
Braise,  Braised,  barigoule,  Italienne,  florentine  trimmed, 

scalded,  according  to  name. 
Cavour,  Bot.  rolled  in  grated  cheese,  browned  in  oven, 

chopped  eggs  and  anchovies,  cov.  browned  butter. 
Clamart,  Heart  of  art.  young  green  peas,  cooked  toge- 
ther in  tureen  w.  butter,  new  carrots. 
Colbert,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  dux.  breaded  English  style,  fried 

Colbert  sa. 
Creme,   Bot   sliced,   thi.   cream   sa. 

Croquette  and  Cromesquis,  Salpi.  (S'ee  croq.)  thi.  w.  sa. 
Croustade,  Bot,  sliced  thi.  divers  sa.  in  crust. 

—  320  — 


VEGETABLES 


Cussy>  Bot.  stuf.  w.  foi-gras,  fo-meat  w.  truf.  cov.  w.  vil. 
sa.  breaded,  fried,  mad.  sa. 

Dubarry,  Bot.  fil.  w.  cauliflower  cov.  mornay  sa.  glazed, 
mad.  sa. 

Descartes,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  fo-meat  w.  foi-g.  truf.  veal 
breaded,  fried. 

Dietrich,  Bot.  cut  in  four,  braised  thi.  cream  sa.  in  ri- 
sotto, border  w.  truf. 

Dupuy,  Cooked,  bot.  cut  in  four  w.  cross  made  in 
carrots,  sliced  celery  and  onions,  fried  in  oil,  moisten 
w.   wh.  wine  and  lemon  juice,  sea.,  served  cold. 

Farcis,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  divers  salpi  or  pu.  hot  or  cold  w. 
salad  for  relishes  fil.  according  to  name. 

Florentine,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  anchovies,  chopped  spinach  cov. 
mornay   sa.   glazed,   garlic. 

Fonds,  Art.  bottom  turned,  cooked  w.  lemon  juice  in 
boiling  water.     When  cooked,  ready  for  divers  use. 

Frits,  Bot.  When  cooked,  cut  in  quarters,  pickled,  di- 
vers styles.  Bottoms  when  cooked,  gar,  according  to 
name. 

Grecque,  'Greek  style"  same  Egyptienne  w.  jul.  of  car- 
rots and  celery  sea. 

Italienne,  Cut  in  four,  braised  w.  Italienne  sa. 

Jussienne,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  marrow  salpi.  w.  mu.  and  truf. 
breaded  and  fried,  Colbert  sa. 

Lyonnaise,  Cut  in  four,  braised  w.  onions  or  lyonnaise 
lyonnaise  sa. 

MaraTchere,  Bot.  in  four,  braised  w.  onions,  leeks,  tom., 
new  pot.  green  peas. 

Mornay,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  foi-g.  and  truf.'  mornay  sa.  glazed. 

Paysanne,  Bot.  cut  in  four  w.  salt  pork,  onions,  pot. 
stewed  w.  gravy. 

Poivrade,  Cut  in  four,  raw,  young  art.  fresh  ground 
pepper.  French  dressing. 

Poulette,  Bot.  sliced,  poulette  sa. 

Puree,  Art.  bottom,  pounded,  strained,  for  pu.  soup,  gar. 
etc. 

Salade,  Bot.  cooked  sliced  w.  salad  or  divers  gar. 

Saute,  Bot.  raw  or  cooked  according  to  name. 

Sauce,  Cooked  whole  or  bot.  sa.  according. 

Stanley,  Bot.  cov.  w.  Soubise  sa.  w.  horseradish  cheese, 
glazed,  cream  sa. 


—  321 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Villars,  Bot.  stuf.  w.  Montglas  cov.  w.  ch.  fo-meat  cheese 

glazed,  Colbert  sa. 
Vinaigrette,   Cooked   whole,   vinaigrette   sa.   Bottom  the 

same. 

ASPARAGUS    AND   TIPS    (Asperges   et    Pointes) 

In  general  hygiene  the  asparagus  is  an  aliment,  whole- 
some and  savory. 

Doctors'  advise  people  to  eat  asparagus  for  any  infec- 
tion of  the  kidneys.  They  also  act  as  a  sedative  for 
palpitation,  a  liquid  medicine  is  also  made  from  them 
also  aspirine.  Cut  the  tops  off  carefully,  remove  outer 
leaves  and  peel.  Do  not  scrape.  Wash  well,  tie  in 
small  packages,  put  in  boiling  salt  water.  If  not  served 
immediately  place  in  cold  salt  water  to  prevent  turning 
black. 

Bouillies,  Cooked  in  boiling  water  w.  salt.  Served  w. 
melted  butter.  Hollandaise  sa.  Cold  may.  sa.  mus- 
tard sa.  Vinaigrette,  etc. 

Bouchees,   Patties.     Cut  in  dice  w.  thi.  w.   cream  sa. 

Croquettes,  Cut  in  dice  thi.  w.  Bechamel  sa.  breaded 
English  style,  fried,  round,  flat.  etc. 

Flamandes,  Flemish,  boiled  w.  melted  butter  w.  chopped 
boiled  eggs  and  parsley. 

Frites,  Cooked  tips,  breaded  English  style,  fried  or  cov. 
w.  Villeroy  sa.  breaded  and  fried. 

Gratin,  In  branches.  Tips  cov.  cream  sa.  or  Mornay. 
Cheese  gratin  tips  only. 

Grille,  Whole  broiled,  tips  only,  breaded  w.  butter.  Mai- 
tre  d'Hotel  butter  or  melted. 

Italienne,  Whole  tips,  sprinkled  w.  cheese  and  glazed 
w.  brown  butter  on  top. 

Mornay,  Same  gratin.     Whole  or  tips. 

Polonaise,  Polish  style.  Boiled,  tips  cov.  w.  chopped 
eggs  and  parsley.  Cov.  w.  brown  butter  w.  bread 
crumbs. 

Puree,  In  pu.  green  or  white,  used  for  garnishings  or 
soup,  etc. 

Salade,  Tips  cut  short,  boiled.  May.  vinaigrette  or  mus- 
tard sa.  hot  or  cold. 

—  322  — 


VEGETABLES 


Villeroy,  Tips  cov.  Villeroy  sa.  breaded  English  style  on 
small  skewer,  fried,  dressed  in  shape  of  hedgehog, 
made  w.   bread. 

BURDOCK    (Bardanes) 

Preparation  for  the  leaves  (See  Spinach),  the  roots 
peeled,  sliced,  cooked  in  cream  sa. 

BEANS,    DRIED   OR    FRESH 

(Haricots,  verts  et  sees) 

Beans  are  composed  of  about  125  different  varieties 
and  furnish  husks  which  if  picked  before  ripe  are  called 
string  beans,  but  these  are  only  a  few  specimens 
amongst  the  large  variety  which  can  be  eaten  as  string 
beans.  The  string  beans  constitutes  an  aliment  whole- 
some and  light.  The  dry  beans  contain  a  certain 
amount  of  azote  which  is  nourishnig.  There  are  three 
differents  methods  of  conserving  these  beans  green, 
namely:  The  Appert  System,  dessication,  and  salted. 
(S'ee  different  recipes).  The  Appert  System  is  the  best 
if  the  manufacturer  does  not  put  in  sulphate  of  copper 
to  preserve  the  green  color.  String  beans  are  employed 
very  considerably  in  the  kitchen:  Soups,,  jardinieres, 
macedoines,  salades  and  numerous  garnishings  are 
made. 

WHITE   BEANS   (Haricots   Blancs) 

Beurre,  Butter-Cooked  Drained  sea.  thi.  w.  fresh  butter 
and  chopped  parsley. 

Boston,  Dry  beans.  Soak,  cook  5  minutes  sea.  w.  piece 
of  salt  pork.  English  mustard,  molasses,  put  in  spe- 
cial pot,  w.  juice,  covered.  Baked  slowiy  5  or  6  hours. 
Served  w.   Boston   bread. 

Breton ne,  Cooked.  Drained,  on  Bretonne  sa.,  cooked  for 
1  hour  or  w.  gravy  of  Roasted  Lamb. 

Gratin,  Cooked.  Thi  sa.  or  gravy,  bread  crumbs  on  top, 
Butter,  Baked. 

Mattre  d'Hotel,  Same  Beurre. 

Lyonnaise,  Cooked  thi.  Lyonnaise  sa.  or  chopped  onions 
fried  w.  butter. 

—  323  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Puree,  Cooked,  pouned,  strained  for  pu.  or  soup.  The 
color  of  the  beans  designates   the   name. 

Salade,  All  beans  cooked  sea.  w.  French  dress'ing  (broad 
Beans.    Flageolets,    Lima    Beans.,    same    preparation). 

STRING   BEANS    (Haricots  Verts) 

Allemande,  Cooked,  Cooked  Anglaise  thi.  All-sa. 
Anglaise,  Cooked  in  salt  water,  drained,  served  w.  fresh 

butter  on  top. 
Beurre,  Butter.  Cooked  Anglaise  thi.  w.  butter  or  saute 

in  pan  w.  butter  rissoles. 
Creme,   Cooked  Anglaise  thi.   cream   sa. 
Maitre  d'Hotel,  Cooked,  thi.  butter  and  parsley. 
Panaches,  String  beans,  mixed  w.  flageolets,  corn  lima 

beans  or  peas,  thi.  w.  butter,  cream  sa.  or  veloute. 
Puree,   Cooked   Anglaise,   pounded,   strained   for   pu.   or 

soup. 
Petits,    Cooked   Anglaise    w.    chopped   fried    onions    thi. 

cream  sa.  or  veloute. 
Salade,  Cooked  Anglaise.  Cold  w.  onions  or  fine  herbs, 

according  to  name.  French  dressing. 
Tourangelle,  Cooked  thi.  w.  cream,  parsley. 

BEETS    (Betteraves) 

Beets  should  be  well  cooked.  In  America  and  Eng- 
land they  are  boiled  and  seasoned  with  cream  sauce  or 
butter.  The  Russians  make  soup.  In  Germany  they 
are  torrified  and  take  the  place  of  chicory.  In  certain 
countries  a  mild  wine  is  made.  The  leaves  of  the  beet 
are  prepared  the  same  as  spinach.  The  best  way  is 
to  bake,  pickle,  braise  or  in  cream  w.  gravy,  or  in  salad. 

CABBAGES    (Choux) 

The  cabbage  is  a  precious  vegetable  in  cooking.  It  is 
indigestible  and  requires  a  great  deal  of  lard  in  its 
preparation.  Following  are  several  preparations  of  dif- 
ferent cabbages. 

—  324  — 


VEGETABLES 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS   (Choux  de  Bruxelles) 

Anglaise,  Cleaned,  cooked  in  boiling-  salt  water;  drained 
w.  fresh  butter. 

Bonne  Femme,  3/4  cooked,  sea.  braised  w.  butter  20 
to  35  minutes. 

Marrons,  Same  Bonne  Pemme  w.  chestnuts,  30  to  40 
minutes. 

Puree,  Cooked,  strained,  add  w.  cream  or  mashed  pota- 
toes. 

Saute,  w.   brown  butter,  sea.  lightly  browned. 

CAULIFLOWER   (Choux-fleurs) 

Anglaise,  Boiled  w,  the  green  leaves  around,  fresh 
butter. 

Bouillie,  Cooked  in  boiled  water  w.  salt  and  lemon  juice 
or  milk.  Served  w.  melted  butter,  cream  or  hoUan- 
dal&e  sa.  etc. 

Frit,  Cooked  pickled  w.  oil,  lemon  juice,  sea.  chopped 
parsley,  dipped  in  batter,  fried  torn.  sa. 

Gratin,  Cooked  w.  Mornay  sa.  cov.  center  w.  Mornay 
sauce,  sprinkled  cheese,  crumbs,  and  butter.     Baked. 

Milanaise,  Cooked  saute  sea.  sprinkled  cheese  and  but 
ter.     Baked.    Browned  butter  on  top. 

Polonaise,  Cooked  saute  or  baked  w.  butter,  sprinkled 
w.  chopped  boiled  eggs  and  parsley,  cov.  w.  browned 
butter  w.  bread  crumbs  on  top. 

Puree,  Cooked,  strained  w.  cream  and  butter  sea.  Du- 
barry,  mixed  w.  artichokes,  Soubise  w.  onions,  Main- 
tenon  w.  mushrooms,  etc.  -^ 

Saute,  In  bouquet,  saute  w.  butter,  for  gar..  '■^^ 

Salade,  In  bouquet  w.  French  dressing,  sour  cream,  etc. 

SauceSf  Cooked  w.  Hollandaise  sa.  mousseline  mayon- 
naise, mustard  sa.  according  to  name. 

Villeroy,  Cold  cov.  w.  villeroy  sa.  breaded,  English  style, 
fried.     Divers  sa.  or  plain. 

KALE,  SAVOYS,   ETC.   (Chou,  Vert,  Savoie,  etc.) 

Anglaise,  Boiled  or  steamed.     Used  for  vege.  or  gar. 
Braise,  Scalded,  sea,  braised  w.  salt  pork,  aromatics  and 
chartreuse  of  game.  .    .^■.:.;.. 

—  325  — 


J  a 


G  ANGEL'S      GULINARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

Choucroute,  Pickled  cabbage,  cut  in  jul.  put  in  barrel 
in  layers,  cover  each  layer  w.  rock  salt,  coriander 
and  junil)er  berries,  pack  tight,  cover  again  w.  rock 
salt,  put  a  wooden  hoop  on  top  and  a  weigth  of  40 
pounds.  After  a  few  days  take  the  brine  off  and  pour 
it  over  again  on  the  cabbage  until  it  becomes  clear. 
Gook  choucroute  (sauerkraut)  with  salt  pork, 
goose  grease  or  lard,  white  wine,  carrots,  onions  stud- 
ded w.  cloves,  condiment  and  white  stock,  cook  4  to 
5  hours.  If  the  cabbage  has  an  acid  or  strong  taste, 
wash  in  several  different  waters  before  cooking.  It 
can  be  gar.  w.  Francfort  ham,  garlic  sausages,  salt 
pork,  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes. 

Farcis,  Scald  the  whole  cabbage,  take  heart  out,  stuff 
according  to  desire.  Braise  2  to  4  hours  or  stuff  the 
leaves  in  ball  shape  or  in  mould  w.  risotto. 

Salade,  Gold  slaw  cut  in  jul.  w.  divers  dressings. 

Soupe,  Soup  w.  cabbage  dominant  w.  mixed  vege.  borde- 
laise,  provengale,  auvergnate,   etc.  ,  r; 

CABBAGE  RED  (Choux  Rouges) 

Flamande,  Flemish  style,  cut  in  thin  jul.  w.  shredded 
onions  and  apples,  sea,  and  brown  sugar  on  pan  w. 
butter  or  lard,  cooked  slowly  w.  red  wine,  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar,  10  minutes  before  served. 

Limousine,  Gut  in  jul.  w.  salt  pork,  chestnuts,  braised. 

Marine,  Gut  in  jul  w.  aromatic  and  hot  vinegar. 

Montargis,  Gut  in  jul.  w,  chopped  onions,  fried  in  butter 
moisten  w.  red  wine. 

Salade,  Gold  slaw  in  jul.  divers  sa.  for  salad. 

Sirop,Pound  leaves  and  extract  juice  two  parts  of  sugar 
to  one  of  clarified  juice.     Put  in  bottle. 

Valencia,  Same  Flamande.     Add  w.  chorizo  sausage. 

HEART   OF   PALIVI    (Chou    Palmiste) 

Same  preparation  used  for  asparagus.    (Preserved  in 
can.) 

KOLH-RABI    (Chou    Rave) 
TURNIP    ROOTED   CABBAGE    (Chou    Navet) 
Same   preparation   used   for   turnips. 

—  326  — 


VEGET  ABLES 


SEA   KALE    (Chou   Marin) 
Same  preparation  used  for  cardon  or  asparagus. 

CARDOON    (Cardon) 

Tlie  cardoon  is  a  vegetable  both  wholesome  and  aph- 
rodisiac. They  are  difficult  to  whiten,  and  there  are 
only  two  different  preparations.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  put 
in  boiling  water  with  vinegar,  for  five  minutes,  then 
put  in  cold  water,  rub  with  a  cloth  until  the  skin  peels 
off,  then  rub  with  lemon  and  cook  in  white  stock. 
Another  way  is  to  peel,  rub  with  lemon,  put  in  cold 
water,  then  cook  in  white  stock. 
Bechamel,  Cooked,  put  in  cream  sa.  simmered. 
Jus,    Meat    gravy.    Cooked    simmered    w.      veal      gravy 

or  demi-glace  thin. 
Moelle,  Simmered  w.  demi-glace  w.poa.  marrow  or  crust 

fil.  w.  marrow  around. 
Sauce,  After  braised,  cov.  w.  sauce  or  served  separately, 
cream,   holl.   Italienne,   Bordelaise,   mousseline,   demi- 
glace,  mad.  torn.  etc. 
Green   Carde   (Charde)   same  Spinach. 

CARROTS    (Carottes)  "*, 

The  carrot  is  an  indispensable  vegetable  in  culinary 
art,  and  is  used  as  a  condiment  in  all  braised  articles: 
bouillon  and  garnishings.  The  carrot  is  easy  to  digest 
and  is  good  for  people  suffering  from  dyspepsia.  Some 
physicians  claim  it  is  very  good  for  rheumatism.  Pick 
out  red  carrots,  when  they  are  old,  use  only  the 
outside  pulp,  as  the  center  is  like  a  piece  of  wood  and 
has  a  bitter  taste.  The  culinary  artist  transforms  car- 
rots into  flowers  for  decorating  purposes. 
Creme,    Turned    or    sliced,    boiled    w.    salt,    little   sugar 

and  butter  w.  reduce  cream  or  ere.   sa. 
Croquettes,   Cut  in   dice,   cooked,   thi.   w.   bechamel   sa, 

breaded  English  style,  fried,  cream  sa. 
Flamande,  Sliced  round,  smothered  w.  butter,  cream  sa. 

chop  parsley. 
Glace,  Glazed  French  carrots,  water,  butter  and  sugar, 

reduce,  used  for  gar.         -   < 

—  327  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Marianne,  Cut  in  jul.  w.  field  mu.  smothered,  add  meat 

gravy. 
Puree,   Boiled,    pounded   and    strained,    add   cream    and 

butter. 
Vichy,  Vichy  style,  sliced,  smothered  w.  butter  , sugar, 

Vichy  water  or  salt,  reduce,  chopped  parsley  on  top. 

CELERY  AND   KNOB  CELERY 
(Celeri  et  Celeri   Rave) 

Celery  is  a  vegetable  used  as  a  condiment  in  certain 
culinary  preparations  such  as  seasonings  and  garinsh- 
ings  and  is  savarous  and  tasty  to  everybody.  Celery 
possesses  stimulating,  appetizing  and  diuretic  proper- 
ties, but  principally  genesic.  A  very  refreshing  drink  is 
made  with  celery  water. 

Beignets,  Knob,  fritters  cooked,  dipped  in  batter,  fried, 
Braise,  Scalded,  braised,  w.  white  stock,  1  to  2  hours, 

divers   sa.   Bordelaise,   marrow,   tom.   gravy   Italienne 

etc. 
Branches*  Raw  in  glass  stand  w.  ice  or  braised. 
Creme,  Cut,  cooked  in  cream  sa.  simmered. 
Farci,  Stuf.  raw.  heart  branch  w.  roquefort  cheese  and 

paprika,    cream   cheese,    served  in   ice. 
Frit,  Knob  cooked,  cov.  villeroy  sa.  breaded,  fried. 
Grecque,    "Greek",    Same    artichoke    w.   jul.    of    carrots. 
Puree,  Cooked  and  strained,  gar.  or  soup. 
Salade  ,Cut  in  jul.  divers  cold  sa.  or  knob  cooked  sliced 

for  divers  salad. 
Sel,  Salt.  Dry,  pounded,  strained,  mixed  w.  salt. 
Victor,  Scalded  braised  w.  aromatics  and  stock  pickled 

in  oil,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  crushed  pepper,  four  an- 
chovies on  top.  Serve  cold. 

CHAYOTTE 

The  chayotte  is  a  kind  of  cucurbitaceous  that  is  cult- 
ivated in  tropical  climates,  the  fruit  is  about  the  size  of 
a  chicken  egg,  is  agreable  to.  the  taste  and  is  served  as 
a  vegetable.  ^  SLiyano  .bei-il  ,91^??:  ; 

CHERVIL  AND   ROOT    (Cerfeuil  et  Bulbe) 
Chervil  has  the  same  composition  as  fine  herbs,  and 
while  is  not  an  indispensable  article  in  cooking  it  gives 

—  328  — 


VEGETABLES 


a  savory  taste  to  soups  and  salads.  It  has  the  same 
aroma  as  chives.  Do  not  chop  until  ready  to  serve,  put 
in  condiment  raw.  The  chervil  root  contains  a  hulb 
which  can  be  cooked  or  eaten  raw,  when  cooked  with 
fish  it  gives  an  aromatic  odor.  It  is  prepared  the  same 
as  carrots  and  celery. 

Chervis    (Chinese  Vegt.)    Same  oyster  plant. 

CHESTNUTS   (Marrons) 

Chestnuts  are  employed  very  often  in  cooking  and 
serves  as  garnishings  for  meat  and  venison,  also  stuf- 
fing for  fowl.  Puree  of  chestnuts  are  used  for  a  multi- 
tude of  different  entremets  such  as:  soup,  croquettes, 
cake,  souffles,  broiled  and  boiled,  not  forgetting  mar- 
rons glaces.  Water  chestnuts  are  boiled,  then  made 
into  puree  and  flour,  '^^  -"^^ 


iii 


••lO'J     IX'. 
Brussels    Endives,    Wilhoof 


CHICORY  AND   ENDIVES   (Chicoree  et   Endives) 

Chicory  and  endives  are  divided  in  5  different  species 
forming  distinct  types  in  alimentation  by  the  taste  and 

—  329  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

the  manner  of  preparation.  Those  are:  Flamande  (with- 
off)  green,  wild,  white  and  frizzed  chicory.  They  are 
all  used  for  salads  or  can  be  mixed  w,  different  ones. 
Cooked  chicory  possesses  exciting,  tonic  and  diuretic 
proprieties.  The  syrup  is  made  of  1  ounce  of  root,  6 
ounces  of  water,  9  ounces  of  rhubarb,  12  ounces  of 
sugar. 

Chi  Bruxelloise,  Clean,  wash,  put  in  casserole  w.  plenty 
of  butter,  make  white  stock  of  flour,  season  w.  salt 
pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  stock  over  the  chi- 
cory, cover  w.  buttered  paper,  braise  two  hours. 
Chi    Endives,   Cut,   scal'ed,   braised,  thick  cream.         ,m 
Pain   et  Tim  bale,  Scalded,  chopped,  strained,  thi.  sa.  ,8 
eggs  for  2  pounds,  put  in  mould,  cook  in  bain-marie. 
Chi  Verte,  "Green  Chicory"  scalded,  chopped,  thi.  cream 
sa.  for  vegetables  or  garnishings. 

CHRYSALIS  VEGETABLE   (Chenille) 

Same  String  beans  used  for  gar.  and  salad.  Pickled,  etc. 

Claytone  or   winter    purslane 

Same   Spini.ch,  chopped,  braised,   cream,  etc. 

CORN   GREEN    (Mais) 

There  are  at  least  15  different  kinds  of  corn.  Corn 
contains  azote  and  has  superior  nutritions  properties. 
People  who  eat  corn  every  day  are  apt  to  get  a  disease 
called  verdet.  Gaude  corn  meal  is  made  in  France,  in 
Italy  Polenta,  in  Chili  Aniinta,  the  Moldaves  Mamaligo, 
in  America  there  are  all  sorts  of  preparations,  such  as 
on  the  cob  freshly  cooked.  Mexican  chicken  tamale, 
enchiladas,  tamale  corn  made  w.  grated  raw  green  corn 
mixed  w.  bread  crumbs,  sea.  w.  fresh  ground  pepper  and 
butter,  rolled  on  husk,  steamed  for  30  minutes. 
Bouilli,    Boiled,   green    corn    on    the    cob,    take    off   tbe 

husks,  put  in  boiling  water  w.  lemon  juice  or  vinegar, 

no  salt,  cooked  five  minutes,  keep  in  fresh  hot  water 

w.  milk. 
Beignets,  Fritters,  grated  raw,  mixed  w.   flour,   baking 

powder,   eggs,   milk,   sea.   fried  in   butter,     put     one 

spoon  ful.  in  the  pan,  turn  over. 

—  330  — 


VEGETABLES 


Divers  Style,  Grated  w.  cream  or  sa.  add  green  and 
sweet  peppers,  tomatoes  in  dice,  paprika,  etc.  gratin, 
baked. 

Mexicain,  Grated,  saute  w.  chopped  onions,  fried  in 
butter,  add  green  and  sweet  peppers,  tomatoes  in 
dice,    thi.    w.    chilli    sa. 

Saute,  Grated,  fried  in  pan  w.  butter.'  Divers  styles. 

Souffle,  Or  pudding,  grated  raw,  mixed  w,  thick  becha- 
mel sa.  yolk  eggs,  whipped  white  sea.  in  case,  baked. 

CUCUMBER    (Conciombre) 

The  cucumber  is  tasteless  and  insipid,  but  is  refresln 
ing  and  quenches  the  thirst.  Its  noxious  properties 
can  be  modified  by  the  culinary  preparation  and  in  the 
seasoning  which  makes  the  digestion  easy.  The  cu- 
cumber is  necessary  in  the  kitchen  and  is  used  in  gar-, 
nishing  soups,  etc. 
Andalouse,  Peeled,  cut  in  two  or  quarters,  take  out  the 

seeds,   scald,  braised  w.   tom.   sa. 
Bouilli,   Peeled   in   olive   shape.      Boiled,    smothered   w. 

butter,  sea.  gar.  for  fish,  etc.  or  glazed.  (See  Carrots). 
Creme,  Same  bouilli.  3/4  cooked,  simmered  w.  cream  or 

cream  sa.  Raw.  sliced  or  dice  w.  sour  creara,  paprika 

used  for  divers  gar.  or  soup. 
Farcis,  Peeled,  emptied,  scalded.  Divers  stuf.  braised  or 

raw  fil.  w.  divers  salad,  sea.  w.  cream,  paprika,  etc. 
Marines,  Pickled  same  gherkins  or  sweet  pickles,  peeled 

cut  in  two,  studded  w.  cloves,  cov.  w.  syrup,  vinegar 

an  sugar.  Repeat  10  times  w.  boiled  .^yrup,  or  Gree^. 
■^>  style  (See  artichoke.)   '    '  '''!^  ^^  '"^ 

Salad,  Peeled,  seedless,  sliced  w.  cream,  French  dress- 
ing, etc. 
Sale,    S'alted,    pickled    in    brine    S^;'; aromatic    herbs    or 

Dill  pickled,  agoursi,  etc.  '^/J^'^"^'^.'' 

■     .j;ijj.>c    .w)  :<i    ili    iliD    .H'j'O    ;■ 

EGG  PLXrvlt^  (Aub^f^W&s) 

The  egg  plant  is  not  a  nutritious  aliment,  but  it  is 
refreshing  and  digestible.  To  make  the  egg  plant  savpr- 
ous  it  demands  an  excellent  preparation.  Without 
any  value  in  its  self  the  seasoning  is, everything. 

O  O  -L     


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Americaine,  Cut  in  two,  fried,  emptied,  stuff  shells  w. 
chopped  meat  mixed  w.  pulp,  cooked  rice,  sea.  onions, 
garlic,  facultative,  sprinkled  crumbs  and  butter.  Ba- 
ked,  tom.   sa.   around.   Divers   style. 

Be ig nets,  Fritters.  Peeled  cut  or  chopped  raw,  mixed  w. 
flour,  baking  powder,  milk,  eggs  sea.  one  spoonful  in 
pan,  turn  over,  for  vege.  or  gar. 

Creme,  Cream,  peeled  cut  thick,  sliced,  smothered  w. 
butter,  simmered  in  cream  or  cre-sa. 

Egyptienne,  Same  Americaine  stuf.  w.  chopped  mutton 
onion,  garlic,  fried  in  oil.  Baked.  Fried  tom.  in  top. 
Fine  herbs. 

Farcies,  Same  Americaine  stuf.  w.  Duxelle,  sausage 
meat,  rice  Creole  or  pilaf  according  to  name. 

Frites,  Fried,  Peeled,  sliced  thi.  dip.  in  milk  and  flour, 
breaded,  English  style.  Fried  or  cut  in  Julienne. 

G ratine,  Same  Farcies.  ^, 

Grille,  "Broiled"  Peeled,  and  cut  thi.  in  butter,  broiled. 

Grecque,  "Greek".  Cut  in  dice,  saute  in  oil  w.  onion, 
mu.  tom.  garlic,  moisten  w,  vinegar,  highly  sea.  egg 
plant,  predominant.     Served  cold  for  relishes. 

Italienne,  Saute  w.  onion,  garlic,  tom.  on  dish,  sprin- 
kled parmesan  cheese.    Baked  or  stuf.  w.  Italienne  sa. 

Kalalou,   (See  Gumbo).  Egg  plant  predominant. 

Mexicaine,  Saute  in  dice  w.  onions,  torn,  garlic,  gre.  and 
sw.  pepper,  fi-herbs. 

Moussaka,  TurkishS  tyle  (See  Hash  Moussaka). 

Parisienne,  Stuf.  w.  chi.  lamb,  ham,  sausage  meat,  beef, 
marrow,  onion  and  garlic  facultative. 

Provengale,  Stuf.  w.  onions  mu.  tom.  garlic.  Baked  or 
saute  in  oil.     Cut  in  dice,  fi-herbs. 

Puree,  Cut  in  dice,  smothered,  strained  for  gar. 

Salade,  Same  cucumbers,  add  tom.  boiled  eggs,  water- 
cress, French  dressing,  etc. 

Sautees,  Cut  in  dice,  dip  in  flour,  saute  w.  butter  sea. 

Sicilienne,  Cut  in  dice  saute  in  oil  w.  tom.  onions,  garlic, 
parsley  or  stuffed  in  egg-plant  rind,  with  cheese. 
Baked. 

Soufflees,  Cut  in  two,  fried  and  emptied,  chop  pulp 
thi.  w.  Bechamel  and  yolk  of  eggs,  whip,  whites 
replace  in  rind.  Baked. 

—  332  — 


VEGET  ABLES 


Turque,   Sliced,   fried   in   oil,   cov.   w.   chee&e,  mixed  w. 
yolk  of  eggs  between  two  slices,  dipped  in  batter  and 
fried  in  oil. 

FENNEL   (Fenouil) 

Fennel  is  renowned  in  Italy  since  old  Roman  days. 
Sweet  fennel  of  Florence  is  called  "finocchicdolee"  and 
is  a  squatty  plant  cultivated  to  develop  its  bulb,  and 
constitutes  a  vegetable  which  is  very  much  appreciated 
for  garnishing  of  meats.  It  is  regrettable  that  the 
tuberous  fennel  is  so  scarce  in  the  market.  Delicate 
salades  can  be  made  from  the  fennel,  which  ressembles 
scalded  celery,  also  agreable  garnishings  made  with 
cream,  gratin  and  Mornay.  Tuberous  fennel  cooked  in 
salted  water  is  aphrodisiac. 

GHERKINS    (Cornichons) 

Gherkins  are  rubbed  with  salt,  drained,  cov.  w.  boil- 
ing vinegar,  let  cool  and  put  in  bottles  with  aromatics. 
(Cucumbers,  same  preparation.) 

GUMBO    (Gumbo   ou   Okra 

Gumbo  is  very  common  in  America.  The  comestible 
gumbo  is  round  and  in  shape  resembles  a  small  green 
pepper,  the  interior  being  like  a  cucumber.  The  most 
common  gumbo  is  a  long  pyramid  shape.  Green  gumbo 
boiled  is  used  for  salads,  or  braised,  for  garnishings, 
stuffed  for  consomme,  and  cut  one  inch  long  for  soups. 
A  jelly  is  made  from  the  seeds  that  have  been  torrified. 

Creme,  Trimmed,  scalded,  drained,  w.  cream  sa. 

^tuves,  Smothered  w.  onions,  butter  and  gravy. 

Farcis,  Raw,  remove  center  w.  tube,  stuf.  Divers  styles> 
poached,  sa.  or  meat  gravy.  Used  for  soup  or  gar- 
nishings. 

Grecque,  Or  Turque.  Stew  w.  onions,  mutton  in  dice, 
tom.  highly  sea.  simmered  w.  water. 

Kalalou,  Chopped  onions,  gre.  pep.  tom.  egg-plant,  rice 
gumbo  predominant,  braised  w.  gravy,  curry  and  gar- 
lic facultative. 

..Salade,  Scalded.  Drained  after  cold.  Mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

—  233  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


HELIANTI 

Helianti  is  a  vegetable  only  recently  Imported.  It 
has  the  taste  of  a  potato,  Jerusalem  Artichoke  and  oys- 
ter plant.  S'crape,  put  in  water  with  lemon  juice  and 
cook  five  minutes.  Fry  the  same  as  a  potato,  thicken 
with  cream  sauce,  allemande,  veloute  or  saute  in  butter. 
Make  puree  for  garnishings. 

HOP  SHOOTS   (Houblon  jets) 

Hops  are  used  to  aromatise  good  beers.,  also  a  tea  is 
made.  Young  hops  are  comestible.  The  comestible 
pa,rt  is  separated  in  the  same  manner  as  asparagus 
tips.  Wash  in  several  waters  and  scald  in  salted  water 
with  lemon  juice  or  citric  acid.  Thicken  with  butter 
or  cream,  sauce  Hollandaise,  surrounded  with  poached 
eggs,  or  as  garnishings. 

JERUSALEM    ARTICHOKES    (Topinambour) 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke  will  never  become  a  rival  of 
the  potato.  It  has  a  waterly  taste  and  has  the  flavor 
of  the  helianti  artichoke  and  turnip.  It  is  generally 
baked,  sometimes  it  is  boiled  with  cream,  fried,  in  soup, 
puree  or  omelette, 

LEEKS   (Poireaux) 

Leeks  are  employed  generally  as  seasoning  for  soups 
and  bouillon  for  invalids.  The  white  part  of  the  leek 
serves  as  a  garnishing  or  vegetables.  It  has  prolific 
qualities.  It  is  served  braised  in  branch,  oil,  cream  or 
white  sauce.  NOTE. — Never  put  leeks  in  soup  that  have 
not  been  fried  in  butter  first. 

LENTILS   (Lentilles) 

Ever  since  Esau  sold  his  birthright  for  a  plate  of 
lentils,  this  vegetable  has  always  been  renowned.  The 
Revalesciere,  which  is  nothing  but  lentil  flour,  is  sold 
at  80c  a  pound  instead  of  6c  a  pound.  This  vegetable 
contaius  a  lapge  amount  of  azote.  It  is  prepared  the 
same  as  dry  beans. 

—  3E4  — 


VEGETABLES 


LETTUCE  (Laitues) 

All  different  varieties  of  lettuce  are  wholesome,  espe- 
cially when  cooked,  they  are  digested  easily,  are  re- 
freshing and  a  little  laxative.  There  are  many  diffe- 
rent culinary  preparations.  Take  off  all  of  the  outside 
leaves  until  you  reach  the  white  part.  The  epicure  eats 
lettuce  without  being  washed  as  it  is  more  crisp,  but 
it  has  to  be  washed  to  take  the  sand  out.  Different 
salads  are  made  with  lettuce.  Pick  out  firm  and  full 
ones. 

Every  person  who  wishes  to  keep  healthy  should  eat 
lettuce,  either  in  salads  or  garnishings.  The  green 
leaves  are  prepared  the  same  as  spinach,  and  should  be 
cooked  well. 

Blanchies,    Clean    whole    lettuce,    washed,    scalded,    re- 
freshed, pressed,  ready  for  stuf.  braised,  etc.,  accord- 
ing to  name. 
Braise,  After  scalded  cut  in  two,  sea.  folded,  braised  w. 
sliced  vege.  moisten,  stock  or  gravy,  stuf.  for  vege.  or 
gar.  in  pu.  for  soup  or  custard  for  gar. 
Creme,  Scalded,  smothered  w.  cream,  simmered. 
Garniture,  Stuffed,  smothered,  braised  w.  marrow,  Bor- 
delaise,   Morany   sa.    etc. 


l^%w5~><^^??J'^  tJcS'^^v^ 


Culti\ateci    Mushiooms 


MUSHROOMS,    MORILS,    CEPES,    ETC. 
(Champignons,   Morilles,  Cepes  ,Etc.) 

Mushrooms  are  composed  of  a  great  many  different 
varieties.     Amongst  these  numerous   species   there   are 

—  335  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

only  five  that  are  comestible;  such  as  cepes,  chant- 
relies,  morils,  giroUe  and  agaric.  The  cultivated  mush- 
room is  mostly  used  in  cooking,  and  can  be  conserved 
or  eaten  fresh.  There  is  only  one  method  known  to 
guarantee  against  mushroom-poisoning  and  that  is  to 
soak  them  in  salt  water  diluted  with  vinegar,  half  quart 
water,  and  half  pound  of  mushrooms.  Take  out  of 
water  and  refresh  in  cold  water.  To  avoid  accidents, 
use  only  cultivated  mushrooms.  The  preparation  of 
mushrooms  are  very  simple  and  has  few  formulas,  but 
there  are  many  different  preparations  for  garnishings. 


Wild    Mushrooms    (Morilles)       Wild    Muslirooms    (Cepes) 

Cooking    Mushrooms 

Peel,  turn,  or  flute,  wash,  cook  in  little  water,  butter, 
salt  and  lemon  juice.  Cover  up  for  five  minutes.  Put 
in  earthen  dish  on  buttered  paper.  Can  be  conserved 
for  several  days. 

Creme,  Creamed  mu.  saute  whole  or  sliced,  moisten  w. 
cream  or  cre-sa.  according  to  article  in  crust,  timbale 
or  gar. 

Farcis,  Large  lightly  cook  and  sea.  before  stuf.  accord- 
ing to  gar.  w.  Duxelle  salp.  etc. 

Grecque,  Same  egg  plant.     Mu.  predominant. 

Grille,  Broiled  on  toast.     Divers  butter. 


on  f 


VEGETABLES 


Mori  lies,  Morils,  wash  well.  Andalouse  w.  onions,  gre- 
pep.  ham.  torn,  smothered.     Creamed  etc. 

Mousserons,  Field  Mu.  button  mu.  Same  preparation. 

Puree,  cooked,  pounded,  thi.  w.  Bechamel,  strained  sea. 

Saute,  W.  butter  or  w.  clive  oil.  Dviers  styles. 

Sous-Cloche,  "Under  Glass".  Raw  on  toast  w.  divers 
butter  or  saute  w.  cream.  Time  25  minutes.  Club 
style. 


Wild  Mushrooms  (Chanterelle)       Wild    Mushrooms    (Giroles) 


NETTLE    (Orties) 

Common  nettle  is  used  as  a  purgatif.  The  young 
shoiots  are  peeled  and  made  into  soup  the  same  as  sor- 
rel or  spinach.  A  medecine  is  made,  by  crushing  the 
nettle  and  extracting  the  juice,  which  is  applied  some- 
times in  cases  of  hemorrhage. 

ONIONS   (Oignons) 

Onions  are  a  most  indispensable  article  in  culinary 
preparations,  and  are  used  in  most  all  sauces;  chopped, 
glazed,  fried  and  puree  are  used  for  garnishings.  The 
onion  leaves  a  disagreable  odor  on  the  breath  when 
eaten  raw,  therefore  it  is  necessary  to  cook  them  well. 
The  mashed  pulp  of  onions  made  into  a  plaster,  will 
bring  a  boil  or  felow  to  a  head  quickly.  An  excellent 
old  fashioned  cough  medecine  is  made;  slice  the  onions, 
put  in  an  earthen  tureen,  cover  with  sugar,  let  stand, 
then  take  a  tablespoon  of  the  syrop  every  hour.  Always 
use  white  onions. 


337  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bouillie,  Cooked  in  boiled  water  and  salt.  Served  butter 
or  w.  cream. 

Ciseles,  Shredded.  Cut  in  two,  first  in  perpendicular, 
then  horizontal  shape,  serve  for  gar. 

Confits,  Pickled.  Preserved.  Very  small  white  onions., 
boil  5  minutes  with  a  pinch  of  salt  in  water.  Put  in 
bottle  w.  white  vinegar  and  aromatics. 

Farcis,  Peeled,  not  broken,  emptied.  Scalded,  stuf.  ac- 
cording to  article  braised  w.  stock. 

Frit,  "Fried  French  style".  Sliced  round,  dip  in  milk  and 
flour,  fried  dry,  gold  colors.  Sea. 

Glace,  Glazed.  Small  onions  w.  butter  and  sugar.  Baked. 

Grille,  Broiled,  sliced  round,  dip  in  butter.  Broiled. 

H aches,  Chop  with  knife,  to  prevent  burning  black,  wash 
put  in  cloth  and  press. 

Puree,  Emince  smothered  strained  thi.  w.  rice  or  Be- 
chamel sa.  "French  term"  pu.  Soubise. 

Saute,  Shredded,  smothered  add  sa.  according  to  name. 


Oxalis    tuberous 


OAXALIS    (Oaxalis   Tubereu) 

Oxalis  is  originally  from  Perou  and  resembles  much 
the  red  kidney  potatoes,  the  skin  is  thin  and  smooth. 
When  picked  it  has  an  acid  taste.  Cook  in  boiling  salt 
water,  a  la  creme,  stuffed,  gratin  or  puree.  They  are 
fried,  sauted,  braised,  smothered  or  cooked  in  ashes, 
primitif   style. 

—  338  — 


VEGETABLES 


OYSTER  PLANT   (Salsifis) 

There  are  different  kinds  of  oyster  plants,  the  white, 
black,  or  scorsonise.  To  make  the  oyster  plant  appe- 
tizing it  should  be  kept  white;  therefore  put  lemon 
juice  in  water  and  scrape.  They  are  fried,  with  cream, 
thin  juice,  white  sauce  or  brown,  saute  with  beef,  veal 
or  chicken  made  in  croquettes  or  puree,  a  different  va- 
riety of  garnishing  are  made  also. 

PARSLEY  (Persil) 

Parsley  resembles  very  much  hemlock  and  very  often 
people  are  poisoned  by  not  knowing  the  difference. 
Parsley  constitutes  a  fine  garnishing  for  different 
dishes.  Also  chopped  fine,  or  fried  dry,  for  hot  gar- 
nishings.  -.,■. 

PARSNIPS    (Panais) 

Parsnips  are  used  in  soups  as  an  aromatic,  and  also 
to  vary  the  menu.  They  are  served  as  a  vegetable,  and 
prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  turnips,  carrots,  boiled, 
with  cream,  fried  or  puree. 

PEAS    (Petits   Pois) 

Green  peas  are  an  savorous  vegetable  and  are  eaten 
by  all  convalescents,  as  they  are  easily  digested.  With 
the  refrigeration  of  today  we  have  fresh  green  peas 
all  of  the  year,  but  in  the  months  of  June  and  July  they 
are  the  best.  Green  peas  are  used  in  a  multitude  of 
culinary  combinations,  which  I  cannot  enumerate  here, 

REMARKS: — I  never  refresh  green  peas.  Let  them 
stay  in  their  juice,  as  it  conserves  the  taste.  It  is  the 
only  vegetable  that  is  not  seasoned  with  pepper. 

Anglaise,  English   style.     Boiled   in  salt  water   quickly. 

Served  w.  fresh  butter. 
Anna,  Smothered  French  style  w.  braised  lettuce,  small 

onions,  glazed,  chopped  fresh  mint,  and  chives. 
Beurre,  W.  butter.  Anglaise  style  thi.  w.  butter. 
Bonne    Femme,   Smothered   w.   salt   pork,   small  onions, 

water,  thi,  kneaded  butter,  chop,  parsley  and  chervil. 

OOQ     


GANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Clamart,  Country  renowned  for  gre-peas.   Any  style. 

£tuves,  Smothered  French  style,  w.  lettuce.  Divers 
styles. 

Fermi  ere,  Parmer  style.  Smothered  w.  salt  pork,  small 
onions,  new  carrots,  water  thi.  kneaded  butter. 

Flamande,  "Flemish  Style",  Smothered  w.  onions,  car- 
rots in  dice  and  Purslane  salad.  Water,  sugar,  thi 
kneaded  butter. 

Francaise  "French  style".  Essentially  young  peas  and 
freshly  shelled,  mixed  w.  butter,  salt,  sugar,  small 
onions,  add.  water  one  faggot  made  w.  parsley,  cher- 
vil, lettuce.  Cook  slowly  thi.  w.  butter  last  moment. 
Take  off  faggot  before  served. 

Laitue,  French  Style,  w.  braised  lettuce  or  shredded  w. 
peas,  or  lettuce  separately.     English  style. 

Menthe,  SYnothered  w.  mint  or  English  style. 

Paysanne,  "Country  Style"  Same  Fermiere  w.  shredded 
lettuce  but  omit  carrots. 

Puree,  Cooked  Anglaise,  strain  add.  butter  and  cream 
for  gar.  or  soup. 

Split  (Dry  Peas)  Used  for  soup  or  pu.  according  to 
article. 

PEPPERS    GREEN    AND    RED 
(Piments  verts  et  rouges) 

Peppers  are  used  as  seasoning  in  certain  prepara- 
tions, such  as  garnishings,  vegetables  or  aromatics. 
When  dried  and  ground  into  powder,  paprika  and  Ca- 
yenne are  made,  also  it  is  used  for  curry.  (See  Condi- 
ment). Sedentary  people  and  children  should  abstain. 
When  they  are  served  alone,  dip  in  hot  frying  grease 
to  remove  the  skin  empty,  and  stuff  with  different  stuf- 
fings, such  as:  Creole,  rice,  duxelle,  saute  in  butter, 
and  straned  for  purees  and  sauces. 

POTATOES  AND   SWEET   POTATOES 
Pommes  de  Terre  et  Yam) 

There  are  at  least  120  different  varieties  of  potatoes. 
Every  country  has  its  special  variety.  Very  large  po- 
tatoes are  empty  and  watery.     There  are  two  principal 

—  340  — 


VEGETABLES 


methods  of  preparing  potatoes  and  all  of  the  others 
are  their  derivatives.  Baked  or  fried,  boiled  or  steam- 
ed. The  less  water  a  potato  has  the  better.  The  fari- 
naceous potato  is  the  most  nourishing,  and  should  be 
ripe  and  well  cocked.  As  an  aliment  it  is  of  medium 
value,  but  it  contributes  largely  to  function  the  respi- 
ratory organs.  Following  are  150  different  styles  of 
their  preparation.  Yam  is  the  name  of  the  sweet  po- 
tato. A  few  of  these  recipes  can  be  applied  to  the 
sweet  potato,  but  without  salt  or  pepper.  —  Abbrevia- 
tion, Vegetables. 

Algerienne,  Pu.  w.  swe.  pot.  and  chesnuts  in  cakes,  fried 

in  butter. 
Allemande,   Boiled,   cut  in  thick  slices,  fried  w    butter 
f-DTi  both  sides,  browned.  German  style. 


Soufflees    Potatoes 


Allumette,  Cut  like  matches,  fried  dry. 

Alphonse,  Boiled,   sliced,  w.  maitre  d'Hotel  butter  and 

sweet  peppers  in  dice,  cov.  cheese.  Baked. 
Alsacienne,    Mashed,    mixed    flour,    eggs,     sea.     parsley 

poached   in   boiled   watvir   w.   salt.     Drained.   Cov.   w, 

brown  butter  and  bread  crust. 
Ambassadeur,  Same  Anna  style  w.  cheese. 
Anglaise,  Peeled.     Boiled  natural  or  steamed. 
Anna,  Raw,   sliced  round  in  small  pan  w.    butter    sea. 

Baked  or  in  small  mould  w.  grated  cheese. 

—  341  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Arlie,  Baked,  Emptied  pulp  mixed  w.  chives  and  cream 
sea.  butter  fil.  shell.  Baked.  Divers  styles.  Club 
special  baked  w.  chopped  ham,  etc. 

Au    Gratin,   Gratin.   Hash  w.   cream,   Mashed»..ptft.,,G9jY,. 
cheese  or  crumbs.     Baked  brown.  ii-»,7   hriB  "jqii 

Bataille,  Cut  in  dice  and  fried  dry  or  fried  in  butter. 

Beignets,  Fritters,  Grated  raw,  mixed  w.  flour  and  eggs 
sea.  butter,  milk  if  necessary.  Fried  in  butter, 

Benedictine,  Cut  in  spiral  special  machine,  fried. 

Berny,  Croquette  pot.  w.  chop.  truf.  breaded  w.  shred- 
ded almonds,  fried.     Croquette  style  according  to  gar. 

Berrichonne,  Smothered  w.  salt  pork  and  chopped 
onions.     Moisten  stock,  chop  parsley.  ••"■ 

Biarritz,  Mashed  pot.  w.  ham  and  swe.  peppers  cut  in 
dice,  parsley. 

Bignon,  Peeled,  emptied  .raw,  scalded,  stuf  w.  sausage 
meat,  baked,  mad.  sa. 

Bohemienne,  Baked  emptied  pulp  mixed  w.  sausage 
meat,  fin-herb,  baked,  15  minutes. 

Bordelaise,  Cut  in  dice,  raw,  fried  w.  butter,  chopped 
parsley  and  garlic. 

Bordure,  Border  made  w.  croquette  pot.  according  to 
style. 

Bouillies,  Boiled  w.  or  without  skin,  natural. 

Boulangere,  Sliced  or  cut  in  quarters  raw  w.  shredded 
onions  in  earthen  dish,  sea.  moisten  w.  little  bouillon, 
baked.     Divers  styles,  cooked  w.  meat  sometimes. 

Bretonne,  Cut  in  big  dice  w.  onions,  smothered  w.  bouil- 
lon, garlic  torn.  pu.  chop  parsley. 

Brunes,  "Browned"  hash  pot.  saute  w.  butter,  rolled  ci- 
gar shape. 

Brioche,  Croquette,  French  bun  shape,  colored  w.  yolk 
of  eggs,  baked. 

Bussy,  Lorette  pot.  w.  truf.  and  parsley,  fried. 

Byron,  Macaire  pot.   w.   ere.   and  cheese  in   small  pan: 

California,  Cooked,  sliced,  sweet  pot.  w.  sliced  orange, 
maple  syrup  glazed. 

Candi,  "Candy,"  Cooked  sweet  pot.,  w.  brown  sugar,. 
glazed  or  baked.  sn  bol  ■  j^R.  ,9e(;-.!BfiA 

Cendrillon,  Cinderella,  make  w.  croquette  pot.  or  ra.^ 
slipper  shape  ,gc^.r.  according  to  name.  . 

—  342  — 


VEGETABLES 


Champs-Elysees,  Cut  in  Jul.  w.  fresh  mu.  and  truf.  Anna 

style. 
Chambery,    Sliced    raw,    saute    w.    butter    and    cheese,, 

baked. 
Chamonix,    Cut   in   Jul.    on    fluted    oval   mould    tartelet 

shape  w.  cheese.  Baked  20  to  30  minutes. 
Chateau,   Turned  on  big  olives,   scalded  2  min.   cooked 

in  butter,  colored  brown. 
Chatouillard,  Raw  pot.  cut  long  ribbon  shape,  sliced  3 

milimeters  fried  same  souffle  pot. 
Cheveux,  Hair  pot.  cut  Jul.  fine  if  possible,  fried  dry. 
Chip.  Saratoga,  sliced  w.  machine,  fried,  dry. 
Cidre,  Cider,  stew  w.  salt  pork,  moisten  w.  cider. 
Club,  Baked  pot.   same  Arlie  or  according  to  name  of 

the  Club. 
Cocotte,   Turned   round,    smothered    in    cocotte.     chop. 

parsley. 
Collerette,  Cork  shape  fluted,  sliced  thin,  fried  dry. 
Colombine,  Cooked,  cut  10c  shape  m'.  sw.  pep.  same  size 

saute  w.  butter. 
Copeaux,  Raw.  cut  shavings,  fried  dry. 
Cottage,    Sliced    raw,    round    very    thin    in    small    pan. 

Anna  style. 
Creme,   Cream,   boiled   w.   ere.   hash,   sliced   w.    ere.    or 

reduce  w.  milk  and  butter. 
Croquette,   Cut   raw   pot.   put   in   cold   water   and   little 
•^4  salt  let   boil,   cook   20   to   25    minutes,    drained    dry, 

strained  in  pan  w.  butter  sea.  on  side  let  stand  on  the 

fire,  add  1  egg  and  3  or  4  yolks  per  ^  lbs.  Breaded 

English  style-  and  fried. 
Dauphine,  Croquette  pot.  add  1/3  cream  puff  paste,  no 

sugar,  breaded  English  style.  Fried   (crescent  shape). 
Dau  phi  noise,   Sliced   raw  w.   butter   and   Swiss   Cheese. 

Baked. 
Delmonico,  Hash.  w.  cream  and  butter,  gratin  no  cheese 

or  sliced  w.  cream,  chives  and  cheese  glazed. 
Duchesse,    Croquette   pot.     Divers     shape,     brushed    w. 

beaten  yolk,  colored  in  oven.  Rose,  flat,  border  cake, 

ovale,  round,  according  to  name. 


—  343 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Dumpling,  (See  Alsacienne  Composition).  Divers  styles. 
Elizabeth   (See  Dauphine  pot.)   Small  boat  shape,  fried, 

emptied  fil.  w.  creamed  spinach. 
Ernestine,    Peeled,    Roasted    whole,    emptied    fil.   w.   ch. 

salpicon  w.  cream. 
Escalope,  Boiled  layer  and  sliced,  butter  and  cream,  sea. 

cheese  and  crumbs.  Baked. 
Etuves,  Chateau  shape  smothered  w.  butter  and  bouillie, 

parsley. 
Farcis»   Stuf,  pot.  Baked  or  raw  emptied.  Divers  style. 
Ficelles,   Shoe  string  pot.    S'pecial   machine.   Fried   dry. 
Florentine,  Delmonico,  sliced  w.  spinach.  Cov  w.  cheese 
Flamande,    Stew   w.    onions   and   carrots,    moisten    With 

bouillon.  !0 

Folette,     Baked,  emptied,    pulp    mixed      w.    cream    sea. 

chives  and  sweet  pep.  in  dice.  Baked. 
Fondante,  Chateau  cooked  w.  lard,  after  cooking  crush 

lightly  sea.  add  fresh  melted  butter.  Cov.  until  buttej 

is  absorbed.  ^ 

Four  (au),  Baked,  pot.  Natural. (See  Robe  de  Chambre). 
Fraisier,  To  fraise  pot,  special  machine,  fried  same  ja- 
bot. 
Freneuse,  Mashed.  Mixed  w.  mashed  white  Turnips  and 
,.  cream. 
Fromage,   Mashed,   saute.   All   pot.   w.   mixed  w.   cheese 

and  glazed. 
Frites,  "Fried".  French  fried.   (See  Pont-Neuf.     Note.  It 

is    essential    that   all    pot.     to     be     fried     should    be 

washed  well   and   then  put  in  cold  water  for  2  or  3 

hours.     If  possible  use  grease  that  is  white  and  clean. 

Fried  dry,  salt. 
Gaieties,  Cake  made  w.  croquettes  pot.  flat,  round  ovale, 

dip.  in  flour,  fried  w.  butter.     Divers  name. 
Garniture,  All   pot.   according  to  article. 
Gastronome,  Cork  shape  raw,  scalded  5  minutes.  Cooked 

w.  butter,  rolled  in  meat,  glace  and  chop,  truf. 
Gaufrette  or  Loulou.  Special  machine,  fried  dry. 
Georgette,  Baked  emptied  fil  w.  crawfish  salpi.  thi  nan- 

tua  sa.     Used  foi  relishes.  Same  w.  shrimps. 

344  — 


VEGETABLES 


Georgia,   Sweet  pot.    Cooked   sliced   fried  w.   butter   on 

dish.    Gov.   w.    brewu   sugar   and    cinnamon     powder. 

Glazed. 
Georgina,   Sweet  pot.   cooked  w.   sliced  apples  fried  w. 

butter,   molasses   and   brown   sugar.   Glazed. 
German   style,  saute.    (See  Allemande). 
Gnoquis,  Pulp  of  pot.  w.   cream  puff  pas.  no  sugar  po. 

on    salt    boiling   water.    Drained    cov.    w.    cheese    and 

melted  butter,  baked.  Divers  styles. 
Glace,  Chateau  or  divers  style,  rolled  in  meat  glazed  or 

sweet  pot.  w.  syrup  and  sugar.  Candied  pot. 
Gousse   d'ail,   Clove   garlic   shape.     Boiled,   saute,   fried 

used  for  gar.  according  to  article. 
Gratin,   Generally    creamed   or   mashed.      Divers    style. 

Baked. 
Grillle  "Broiled"  Raw  or  cooked.  Sliced  w.  butter. 
Hachees,   Hashed,   Peeled,     boiled     pot.     chopped     for 

browned,   cream,   saute  w.   onions   gr.   or   sweet  pep., 

according  to  name. 
Hollandalse,   "Holland"   Peeled,   boiled,   plain  or  butter. 
Hongrolse,  Raw  sliced  smothered  w.  onions,  leeks  and 

paprika  torn,  in  dice.  Moisten  w.  bouillon. 
Igname,  French  name  for  sweet  pot.  (Yam)  boiled  first, 

before  using  for  divers  preparations,  or  baked. 
Irlandalse,  "Irish".   Ribbon  of  peel  off  around  the  pot. 

before  boiled  or  steamed. 
Jabot,  Pot.  frill.  Special  machine,  fried  dry. 
Jaquette,  Jacket.  Boiled  without  peeling. 
Julienne,  Cut  in  Jul.  fried  dry.  (Red.  Frites  Pot.) 
Klosse,   (See  Alsacienne),  German  Dumpling. 
Lard,  S'tew  w.  salt  pork  and  onions  and  bouillon. 
Lavigerie,  Boiled  sweet  pot.  emptied,  stuffed  w.  puree 

of  chestnuts,  baked. 
Liard,  Cut  penny  size,  fried  dry. 
Long   Branch,  Cut  thin  long  fried  dry. 
Loulou,  Same  Gaufrette,  special  machine,  fried  dry. 
Lorette,   Dauphine   pot.   w.   cheese.   Pass   in   flour   only. 

Fried   hot  grease   last  minute. 
Louisianaise,  Sliced  sweet  pot.  saute  w.  green  corn  and 

sliced   bananas,   molasses,   brown   sugar.   Baked. 


345 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Lyonnaise,  Boiled,  sliced,  saute  w.  shredded  onions. 
Macaire,    Pulp   of   baked   pot.    sea.    small    cake   colored 

in  pan  w.  butter. 
Mai  re,  Boiled  sliced  reduce  w.  cream,  sea. 
Maltre  d' Hotel,  Sliced,  boiled,  reduce  w.  milk,  parsley, 

the  same  w.  bouillon. 
Maria,  Cut  in  dice,  raw,  saute  ,w.  ham,  fi-herb. 
Marquise,  Croquette  w.  tom-pu.  Cake  ovale  shape,  pass 

w.  flour,  fried  in  butter,  or  in  pastry  bag,  meringue 

shape.  "^ 

Marechale,  Anna  style  with,   cheese    on    small    mould, 

glazed. 
Mascotte,   Cut  in  dice  or  olivette,   saute  w.   art-bottom 

and  truf  in  dice.     Same  for  gar.  mascotte. 
Menagere,  Mashed  w.  ham  and    fried    onions    in    dice. 

Baked. 
Menthe,  Anglaise  w.  butter  and  chopped  mint. 
Minute,  Cut  in  dice,  saute  w.  butter,  sea.  fi-herbs. 
Mireille,  Sliced  raw.  saute  w.  art-bottom  and  truf. 
Mirette,   Cut   in   dice    smothered   w.   jul.    of   truf.   meat 

glace.  Cheese  glazed. 
Miss  Betsy,  Mashed  pot.  mixed  w.  yellow  turnips. 
Monselet,   Sliced  raw,  saute  sea.  w.  mu.  in  center,  jul. 

of  truf.  on  top. 
Mousse! ine.    Pulp    w.    egg    yolk     and     whipped     cream. 

Cooked  in  mould  or  dish,  glazed.  L. 

Morgan,     Sliced,     cooked     sweet  pot.   fried   w.   butter^. 

Candied   chesnuts  on  top.   Maple  syrup,  glazed.  i 

Napolitaine,  Long  Branch  w.  mu.  and  truf.  Anna  style. 
Nids,   "Nest",    Special   basket   made   of  jul.   pot.   fil.    w. 

souffle  pot.  J 

Ninette,  Cut  in  jul.  on  small  pan  w.  cheese,  same  Anna. 
Ninon,  Small  croquette  long  shape  w.  truf.  and  ham  in 

dice.  Breaded,  fried. 
Noisette,   Raw,   small   parisienne   pot.   hazel   nut   shape 

saute   w.  butter  or  croquette,   same  size,  fried. 
Mongolienne,    Black  pot.    same    Sweet   pot. 
Normande,    Sliced    raw,    onions    and    leeks      w.      butter 

moisten  w.  milk.     Baked  same  w.  cider.  '•  • 

—  346  — 


VEGETABLES 


O'Brien,   Cut   in  dice   w.    sweet  pep.   saute   or   hash,   in 

cream  w.  sweet  pep.  gratin. 
Olivette,    Small   chateau,   olives   or   oval,    spoon     shape. 

Boiled,   fried  or   saute  according  to  article. 
Ortez,  Cut  in  dice  w.  gr.  and  sweet  pep.  saute,  fi-herb. 
Paille,   Straw.   Cut  in  long  jul.   fried   dry. 
Palestine,  Dauphine  pot.  made  w.  Jerusalem  art. 
Palermitalne,    Cut   in   jul.    mu.    and   truf.    w.    butter   in 

small   pan.    Same   Anna. 
Parisienne,  Ball  shape  scalded,  saute  w,  butter,  divers 

size. 
Pascal,  Croquette,  very  small,  mixed  w.  mu.  truf.  ham 

and   fi-herb,    breaded    and    fried. 
Paysanne,  Sliced,  smothered  w.  sorrel  and  chervil. 
Persillees,  Boiled,  peeled,  English  style,  rolled  w.  butter 

and  chopped  parsley. 
Pfan    Kuchen,  Pot.  cake.     See  Beignets. 
Polonaise,    Sliced   raw   w.   onions,   sour    cream,    cheese, 

and  bread  crumbs.   Baked. 
Puree,  All  mashed  pot.   strained,   sea.  butter,  use  only 

hot    milk. 
Quelin,   Large    Parisienne.      Pot.      boiled,      butter     and 

parsley. 
Quenelle,    Same    Alsacienne,    long    quen    shape. 
Ritz,   Cut   in   dice,   saute   w.   butter,   onions    and    sweet 

pep. 
Robe   de   Chambre,  Baked. 
Robert,   Macaire    style   w.    chives   thi.    w.   yolk   of    egg, 

small  pan. 
Rosette,   Parisienne   w.    paprika   and    butter. 
Roties,   Peeled   whole   Roasted   w.   butter. 
Roxelane,   Mousseline   pot.   fil.   in   emptied   french   bun, 
^j  sprinkled  w.  truf.  Baked.  Y 

Royale,  Croquette  w.  chop,  truf.  round  shape,  breaded. 

English  style.   Fried. 
Salade,   Boiled,    sliced   round,    cold   or   hot     w.     french 

dressing,     eggs,     beets,     onions,     fi-herbs,    mayo.     sa. 

mustard   according  to   name.  iom 


347  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Sarah    Bernardt,      Cut    in    special     machine    and    grill. 

Fried  dry. 
Saratoga,  Cut  thin  sliced  fried  dry.   (Same  chip) 
Saucisse,  Charlotte  mould.  Buttered,  sprinkled  w.  fried 

bread     crumbs     very   thick,   fil.   w.   stew     pot.      and 

sausage  thi.   w.   gravy  or   espagnole  sa.   sea.     Baked 

under  mould  or  dish,  thi.  gravy  around.  .^',,.a 

Sautees,  Cooked  sliced,,  saute  w.  butter,  fi-herbs,  diVers 

style.     See   Allemande   or   German. 
Sherry    Louis,    Same    farcies    w.    Virginia    ham,    cheese 

on   top,   glazed. 
Savoyarde,  Sliced,  raw,  saute  w.  shredded  onions,  swiss 

cheese. 
Schneider,   Maitre-d'Hotel   Pot.   w.   bouillon,   meat  glace 

and  butter,   chop,  parsley.  '^ 

Souffles,   Puffed   pot.    Cut  in  oval,   sliced   3   line  thick!, 

wash  and  drain,  fry  slowly  until  cooked,  then  plunge 

into  boiling  grease  until  puffed.     To  succed  in  this, 

use   two   pans,   the   last  one   very  hot,   salt. 
Southern    Style,    Sweet   Pot.    sliced     after     cooked     in 

mould,  buttered,  fil.  w.  custard.  Baked,  in  bain-Marie 

under  mould.   Syrup  around,  or  saute  w.  butter,  cov. 

w.   molasses.   Baked. 
Surprise,      Croquette      pot.      center    fil.    w.    salpi.    vege. 

according  to   name,   breaded,   fried. 
Suzette,   Peeled  raw.   Egg   shape,     roast,     open     same, 

boiled    egg,    pulp    mixed    w.    ch.    salpi    w.    cream    sa. 

covered    and   baked. 
Tim  bale.    Mould,    sprinkled    or    decorated    fil.    w.    mous- 

seline  pot.   baked  in  bain-Marie. 
Viennoise,    Croquette    pot.    formed      in      small      Vienna 

loaves,   brush  w.   beaten  yolk,   baked. 
Voisin,  Anna  pot.  w.   cheese  in   small  pan. 
Waldorff,  See  ficelle.   Shoestring,  fry  dry. 
Yvette,  Jul.   pot.  w.  gre.  peppers,   Anna  style,  in  small 

pan. 
Yam,  Boiled  first.   Peeled,  candy,  southern  style,  fried, 

puree  for  croquettes,  cov.  w.  marshmallow  cream,  or 

w.    sliced    banana,    apple,    orange,    cov.    mollases,    in 

mould,  w.   molasses  and  custard,  etc. 

—  348  — 


RICE 


RICE   (Riz) 


Rice  should  never  be  cooked  to  form  a  paste. 

The  Japanese  and  Chinese  cook  rice,  so  that 
each  grain  stands  alone.  The  best  rice  is  the 
"Caroline,  Patna  and  Piemont",  Rice  is  used  in  a 
great  many  different  culinary  preparations,  such  as: 
soup,  stew  or  pilaw,  risotto,  croquettes,  also  with 
milk,  cream  or  in  puddings.  As  rice  contains  very 
little  azote,  a  great  deal  of  butter  must  be  used  or 
juice  of  meat.  The  essential  quality  of  rice  is  in  its 
choleric  properties.  Rice  can  be  added  to  all  risottos, 
chicken,  fish  or  game.  The  risotto  is  most  used  in 
the  kitchen.  The  juice  of  lemon  in  cooking  renders 
the    rice    more    firm. 

Rice  for  Risotto,  use  first  quality. 

An  da  louse,  Risotto  w.  onions,  ham,  garlic,  fried  moisten 

w.   bouillon  and   tom.   pu.   sea.   gar.   w.   chorizo. 
A    Blanc,    "White"    scalded    15    min.    drained,    buttered, 

baked,    cov.    15    min. 
Au    gras,    Scalded    5    min.    moisten,    drained,    moistened 

w.    fat   broth,   sea.   cov.,   baked   30   min. 
Bouillie,    Scalded    15    to    20    min.    well    washed    in    cold 

water,    cooled,    drained,    cov.    keep    warm. 
Chlnoise,    "Chinese".    Well    washed,    cooked    in    pan    w. 

water,  saffron  infusion.     Japanese  the  same. 
Creole,  Risotto  w,  onions,  ham,  mu.  gr.  and  sweet  pep. 

fried,    moisten    stock   and    tom    sea. 
Croquette,     Washed,      cooked   in   bouillon   for   meat   or 

sugar   w.   milk,   thi.   egg,  yolks,   vanilla   for  entremet. 

Breaded   English   style,    fried,     shape     according     to 

name. 
Dieppoise,   Rice    in   border-fil.    w.    salpicon   of   Mussels, 

shrimps    and    mu.    Shrimp    sa. 
Entremet,  See  Croquette  w.  milk,  according  to  style. 

—  349  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Grecque,  "Creek  style."  Rice  pilaf  w.  chopped  onions, 
sausage  meat,  sweet  pep.  shredded  lettuce,  when 
cooked,   add   green  peas.   Baked   8   min. 

Indienne,   Same  Bouillie  w.   curry  sa.   separately. 

Italienne,  Fried  chopped  onions  and  rice,  moisten  dou- 
ble sea.  cooked  20  min.,  mix  w.  cheese  and  butter, 
torn,  and  saffron  facultative.  Divers  styles  according 
to   risotto. 

Milanaise,  Same  Italian  w.  jul.  of  mu.  truf.  tongue  and 
chicken,  tom.   sa.   around. 

Montargis,   Rositto  w.   mu.   and  art.   bottom  in  dice. 

Orientale,  Pilaf  w.  onions,  gre.  and  sweet  peppers, 
curry  butter,  moisten  in  bouillon  or  sweet,  w.  milk 
sugar,  orange  and  lemon  candies  in  dice,  cinamon, 
Smyrna  raisins  in  mould,  when  cold  unmould,  fruit 
juice  around. 

Parisienne,    Risotto   w.    mu.   tom.    cut   in   dice,   tom.    sa. 

Piemontaise,  Risotto  chop,  onions,  fried  w.  rice,  moisten 
w.    stock,    white   truf.    and    cheese. 

Pilaf  or  Pilaw,  Turkish  name.  Onions  fried  w.  rice, 
moisten  white  stock  cov.  baked  18  min.  medium  oven, 
mix  w.  fresh  butter.  "Egyptian"  w.  onions,  egg  plant, 
mutton  tom.  "Spanish"  w.  saffron,  onions,  pimentos, 
tom.  ham,  chorizo,  "Greek"  w.  onions,  tom.  gumbo, 
lamb,   "Turkish"   tomato   and    saffron,   etc. 

Polonaise,   White   or  wild   rice.      (See   cauliflower). 

Rice,  For  divers  preparation:  1  lb.  rice,  salt,  2^/^  ql. 
milk,  boiled,  put  in  oven  20  minutes  add  5  ounces 
sweet  butter  covered  w.  buttered  paper.  Add  sugar 
and  yolk  of  egg,  vanilla  or  lemon,  ready  for  custard, 
pie,  tartelette,  etc. 

Risotto,    See    Italian. 

Saint-Denis,  Risotto  w.  fresh  mu.  gravy  around. 

Valencienne,    (Read  Pilaf)    Spanish  style. 

Wild  rice.  Used  by  Chippewa  American  Indians.  Boiled 
and    drained.    Divers    style. 


—  350 


SA  L  A  D  S 


SALAD    (La  Salade) 

Salad  to  be  refreshing  should  be  seasoned  with  good 
wine  vinegar,  and  olive  oil.  Sometimes  the  oil  is  re- 
placed by  cream  or  fried  scrap  pork,  the  vinegar  can 
be  replaced  by  lemon  juice.  Salads  should  only  be 
seasoned  before  serving;  that  is  the  general  rule.  But 
there  are  certain  salads  that  must  be  left  standing  in 
a  strong  condiment.  Any  abuse  of  vinegar  is  injurious 
to    the    stomach. 


Fancy    Salad 


SAUCES    FOR    SALADS 

Creme   cuite,    Cooked   cream.   1   quart   ere.,   10   raw   egg 

yolks,   1    wine   glass   vinegar,     English   mustard    sea. 

cooked  without  boiling.     Quantity  according  to  desire. 
Creme    crue,    Fresh    double    ere.    lemon    juice,    salt  and 

pepper. 
Chantilly,  Mayonnaise  w.  whipped  cream. 
Chili,  Mayonnaise  w.   chili  sa.  half  and  half  w.   chives. 
Francaise,    French    dressing,    1    part    vinegar,    salt    and 

pepper.   3   parts    oil,   no   paprika,   no   mustard. 
CEufs,  Eggs,  cooked  eggs,  strained,  mustard  oil,  vinegar, 

salt,  pepper  or  mayo.  sa.   or  sliced. 
Mayonnaise,   W.    cream   and    lemon   juice,   according   to 

style   or  plain  mayo. 

—  351  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Noir,  Black  sa.  English  Walnuts,  strained  w.  mayo.  sa. 
Riche,  Mayo  sa.  w.  cream,  eggs  truf.  in  dice,  chervil. 
Roquefort,    Strained     cheese    w.     French     dressing     or 

mayo.    sa. 
Swedish,   Chantilly  w.   horseradish. 
Thousand  Islands,  Same  as  chili  w.  gr.  and  sw.  peppers 

and   olives   all    chopped   together. 

GARNISHING.    (Garniture). 

Celeris,  Celery,  cut  in  jul.  in  dice  or  sliced,  cooked  knob 
celery. 

Chapon,  A  crust  of  French  bread  rubbed  w.  garlic  and 
put  in  salad,  (Chapon  de  Gascogne). 

Chiffonnade,  Hard  eggs  and  beets  cut  in  dice,  w. 
shredded    chervil,    chives    and    parsley. 

Fines-herbes,  Chopped,  chives,  chervil  taragon,  parsley. 

Russe,  "Russian  dressing",  mayo.  sa.  w.  chiffonnade 
chili  sa.   Worcestershire   sa.  gr.  and   sweet  pep. 

Divers  Garniture.  Tomatoes,  Beets,  Cucumbers,  Peeled, 
sliced  or  quarters,  cooked  beets,  sliced  or  dice,  cu- 
cumbers, peeled,  seedless,  sliced,  hard  eggs,  chop, 
sliced,    or    quarters. 

Note. — Only  the  first  quality  of  olive  oil  and  wine 
vinegar  should  be  used,  and  fresh  grounded  pepper. 
Sauces  for  fruit  salads,  use  mayo.  sa.  w.  cream  and 
lemon  juice.  All  sauces  can  be  used  for  salads,  mayo, 
w.   mustard  for  vegetable   salad. 

FANCY   SALADS 

Take  a  grape  fruit,  orange  or  alligator  pear  and  cut 
in  shape  of  basket,  fill  with  salad. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Art.,  Artichokes;  Fr.  dres.,  French  dressing;  Asp. 
tips,  Asparagus  tips;  Dec,  Decorated;  Dres.,  Dressing; 
Gar.,  Garnishing;  IVIay.,  Mayonnaise;  IVlu.,  Mushrooms; 
Sa.,  Saue;  Sea.,  Seasoned;  Sw.  and  gr.  pep.,  Sweet  and 
green  peppers;  Tom.,  Tomatoes;  Truf.,  Truffle;  Thi., 
Thickened;    Vege.,  Vegetable;    W.,   With. 

—  352  — 


SA  L  A  D  S 

ORDINARY   HERB   SALADS    (Natural) 

(Salades   herbacees) 

Artichoke,  Asparagus,  Cabbage  (white  or  red), 
Celery,  Chervil,  Chicory,  Clayton,  Corn,  Crambe, 
Dandelion,  Endive,  Fennel  Tips,  Fragon,  Hartshorn, 
Hops,  Jew's  Mallow,  Laiteron,  Lettuce,  Liveche,  Monk's 
Beard,  Mosanche,  Mo,sette,  Mipplewort,  Pet-Sai,  Picride, 
Purslane,  Radish,  Rampion,  Roniaine,  Wall  Pepper, 
Water  Cress. 

SALADS    (Vegetable) 

(Salades   legumineuses) 

Caterpillar,  Fennegreek,  Lentils,  Nelambo,  Peas, 
String    Beans,    White    Beans.. 

SALAD  TUBEROUS 

(Salades  de  Tubercules) 

Beets,  Celery,  Mushrooms,  Nasturtium,  Ifelianti, 
Jeiusalem  Art.  Potatoes,  Pomatoes,  Oxalis,  Truffles 
(black   and   white.   Yam. 

SALAD    WATERY 

(Salades  a  Bales  et  Aqueux) 

Alligator  Pear,  Agourci,  Cucumber,  Egg-Plant,  Okra, 
Pimentos,    Tomatoes. 

SALADS    (Fancy) 
(Salades  composees) 

Alexandra,   Heart   of   romaine,    grape    fruit,    celery,   sw. 

pep.,  dres.  or  art.  fil.  w.  anchovies  and  hard  eggs  cut 

in    dice,    thi.    mayonnaise,    circle    of    anchovy,    fil.    w. 

caviar. 
Alexandre,   See   Parisienne  w.  game,  highly  sea. 
Allemande,    .Pot.   apples,     pickled   herring  cut  in   dice, 

hard  eggs,   fr.   dres.   w.   mustard. 
Alma,  Romaine,   alligator   pear,   grape   fruit,  dressed   In 

emptied   alligator  pear   w.   jul.    sw.   pep. 
American,    Sliced   pot.,    tom.    and    celery,    fr.    dres.    ring 

of  onions   and   sliced   eggs   around. 

—  353  — 


G  ANGEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Andaiouse,     Tom.   chop   onions,  rice,     sw.   pep.     garlic, 

chop,  parsley,  fr.  dres. 
Anita,  Russian  Salad,  cross  w.  anchovies,  gar.  around, 

Jul.  of  truf.  asp.  tips,  jul.  of  white  egg,  dres. 
Bagration,  Jul.  of  celery,  art.  chicken,  macaroni,  thi.  w. 

figaro  sa.  dec.  on  top  w.  large  star  branch  made  w. 

chopped   ham   or   tongue,    truf.    white   and   yolk   eggs, 

parsley. 
Barcelonne,   Chicory,    torn,    cut   in    dice,    gre.    pep.    hard 

eggs    in    quarters,    fr.    dres. 
Basto,  Celery,  endives,  apples,  gr.   pep.  in  jul.  fr.   dres. 

border  sliced,  beet  and  pot. 
Beaucaire,  Celery  and  knob  endives,  fr.  dres.  w.  french 

mustard,  add.  ham,  mu.  apple,  mayo  .mixed,  dressed 

in  dome,  fin-herb,   border  beets   and  potatoes. 
Biarritz,  Heart  of  lettuce,   remove  center  fil.  w.  celery 

and  sw.  pep.  cut  in  dice,  thi.  mayo. 
Bohemienne,    Half   heart   of    lettuce,    tom.    in    quarters, 

celery  and  gr.  pep.  in  jul.  chop,  eggs  on  top,  fr.  dres. 
Bresilienne,  Knob  celery,  lima  beans,  gre.  and  sw.  pep. 

thi.  mayonnaise. 
Breton ne,   White    beans,   tom.    art.    onions    cut    in    dice, 

fi-herb.   fr.   dres. 
Buenos-Ayres,  Alligator   pear,   apples,   gre.   pep.    cucum- 
ber,  brazilian  nuts,   highly    sea.    french   dressing. 
Canaille,    Art.    apples,    asp-tips,    shrimps,    mu.    truf.    gr. 

and   sw.    pep.   in   dice,   fr.    dres. 
Carmelite,  Pot.  beets,  onions,  anchovies,  hard  eggs,  cut 

in   dice,   fr.   dres. 
Caroline,   Cucumber,  gre.   peas,   sw.   pep.,   swiss  cheese, 

fried  bread  crust  in  dice,  fr.   dres. 
Combination,  All  divers  salad  mixed  or  gar.  sea. 
Comtesse,   Celery  in   dice  and   tom.  thi.  may.   heart    of 

lettuce  around. 
Chatelaine,   Art.   sliced  pot.   eggs,   onions,  fr.   dres.   dec. 

pot.   egg,  taragon. 
Chrysantheme,    Petals    scalded,    cooled,   fr.    dres.    or   w. 

combination  salad. 
Cressonniere,      Water    cress      sliced    pot.    sprinkled    w. 

chop,    eggs    and    parsley,    fr.    dres. 

—  354  — 


SA  L  A  D  S 

Crevettes,  Shrimps,  mixed  w.  celery  in  dice  or  shredded 

lettuce  cov.   may.   dec.   w.   lettuce  and  hard   eggs. 
Cubaine,   Sliced    Spanish    onion,    tom.   gr.   and   sw.    pep. 

anchovies  in  dice,  sliced  olives,  fr.  dres. 
Danicheff,  Cooked  knob  celery,  art.  pot.  sliced  raw  mu. 

asp.   tips,   thi.   may.   sea.   dec.  w.   crawfish  tails,   eggs 

and    truf. 
De    Lobel,    Chicory    gr.    and    sweet    pep.    tom.    chapon, 

may.    w.    French    mustard. 
Demi-deuil,     Half     pot.      half  fruf,    in   Jul.   fr.    dres.    or 

cliicken,  white  meat  w.  truf.,  dec.  may.  w.  ere. 
Demidoff,  Art.,  celery,  pot.,  anchovies,  truf.  mayo.  dec. 
D'Estrees,  Celery,  raw  truf.  in  jul.  may.  w.  mustard, 
Diplomate,    Celery,    apples,    pineapple    in    jul.    walnuts, 

fr.   dres. 
Dixie,   Lettuce,   tom.    in   quarters,   shelled  gre.    corn,   fr. 

dres. 
Dumas,  Beets,   tom.,   cucumbers   in  dice,   thi.  may.   dec. 

w.    anchovies,   hard   eggs,   taragon. 
Epinard,   Scalded,   cooled,   w.    boiled    eggs,   fr.   dres.    or 

may.    sa. 
Emma,    Cucumbers   thi.    w.    ere.    sliced   tom.    around. 
Espagnole,  Ring  of  Spanish  onions  and  beets,  sv>*.  pep. 

sliced  hard  boiled  eggs,   fr.   dres.,   fine-herbs. 
Faubourienne,    Knob    celery,    pot,    white    beans,    chop. 

onions,   fr.   dres.,  fi-herbs. 
Fer  a  cheval,  "Horse   shoe".  Alligator  pear  horse  shoe 

shape,   studded   w.   truf.   fil.   w.   grape    fruit,     orange 

peeled  and  seedless  raisins.  Sea.  thin  jul.  of  gr.  pep. 

around. 
Flamande,    "Flemish",    Endive,    pot.,    fillet    of    herring, 

chop,    onions,   fr.   dres.    fi-herbs. 
Flamenca,    Knob    celery,    pot.,    truf.,    gr.    and    sw.    pep., 

fr.   dres. 
Florentine,    Same    Henri    IV   on    lettuce    leaf,    circle    of 

anchovies  on  top,  fil  w.  caviar. 
Florida,    Heart    of   lettuce,    center    fil.    w.    oranges    and 

pineapples,   sliced  banana  on  top.   Sea. 
Fin  de  Siecle,  "Ending  Century,  Knob  celery,  pot.,  art., 

french    beans,    gr    .peas,    asp.    tips,    fr.    dres.,   fi-herbs. 

Endives  around. 

—  355  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Francillon,  Pot.,  cooked  musels,  truf.  pickled  w.  white 
wine  sea.  fr.   dres.  w.  fi-herbs,  dec.  truf.   on  top. 

Fruits,  All  kinds  of  fruits  in  salads,  fruits  predominant. 
Dressing  facultative,  fr.  dres.,  may.  cream,  whipped 
cream  ore.  syrup,  liquors,  flavor. 

Fruit  de  mer,  "Sea  fruit,"  Divers  shellfish  and  crusta- 
ceans. Sea.  according-  to  style.  Dec.  and  gar.  optional, 
large  ribbons  of  caviar. 

Gambetta,  Art.,   pot.   and   truf.,   fr.   dres.    fi-herbs. 

Gauloise,  Knob  celery,  art.,  raw  mu.,  cock's  combs  and 
kidneys,  thi.  figaro  sa.,  highly  sea. 

Gobelin,  Knob  celery,  art.,  pot.,  mu.,  truf.,  asp.  tips, 
shrimps,   thi.   w.   may.,  highly   sea. 

Henri  IV,  Celery,  anchovies,  torn,  in  dice,  sea.,  pressed, 
dressed  on  long  dish,  cov.  one  side  entirely  w.  chop- 
ped white  eggs  and  other  w.  chop,  yolk,  border  w. 
large   ribbons    of   caviar   around. 

Hermine,  Chicken  white  meat,  celery,  apple  in  jul.  Sea. 
thi.   may.  w.   cream,   endives  around. 

Holandaise,  Smoked  salmon,  pot.,  onions,  fr.  dres.,  fi- 
herbs.   Border  w.  Berg-op-zoon  caviar. 

Homard,  Sliced  lobster,  lettuce  or  celery.  Sea.  fr. 
dres.  or  may.,  cov.  w.  may.  Dec.  w.  eggs,  capers,  an- 
chovies,  olives,   leaves   of   lettuce   around. 

Hongroise,  Sliced  green  cabbage,  fried  salt  pork,  sea. 
w.    oil,    lemon   juice,    horse    radish,    paprika. 

Humbert,  Sliced  tom.  macaroni,  gr.  and  sw.  pep.,  fr. 
dres. 

Imperiale,  Asp.  tips  and  truf.,  thi.  may.,  crown  of  truf. 
on    top,    fr.    dres.    or   may. 

Isabel,  Lobster,  shrimps,  anchovies,  smoked  salmon, 
gr.   and   sw.   pep.   nasturtium.      Dec.   fr.   dres. 

Isis,  Romaine,  torn.,  bananas,  almonds,  jul.  of  gr.  and 
sw.   pep.,    fr.   dres. 

Italienne,  Mixed  vege.  w.  anchovies,  salamis,  tom.  oli- 
ves,   eggs,    capers.,    thi.    may.    Dec. 

Japonaise,  "Japanese".  See  Francillon  and  Gobelin 
mixed. 

Jardiniere,  Fancy  vege.  in  bouquet.  Sea.  fr.  dres. 

Jockey  Club,  Asp.  tips  and  raw  truf.  w.  may.  highly 
sea. 

—  356  — 


SA  L  A  D  S 

Kuroki,  Heart  of  romaine,  gar.  w.  scalded  chrysanthe- 
mums, quarter  of  orange  and  grape  fruit,  torn.  w. 
stripes  of  gr.  and  sw.  pep.  Fr.  dres.  or  may. 

Lackme,  Cooked  rice,  sw.  pep.,  tom.,  onions,  curry,  fr. 
dres. 

Legumes,  Vegetable  salad.  Dressed  and  sea.  Divers 
vege.    according   to   name. 

Loie  Fuller,  All  salads  dressed  in  circle  shape,  each 
color  to  be  separated,  or  chiffonade, 

Lorette,  Field  salad,  Celery,  beets,  fr.  dres.  ? 

Lorenzo,  Romaine,  lettuce,  cress,  pears,  apples,  beets 
in  Jul.   Fr.   dres.  w.   chili  sa.  and  chop.   eggs. 

Louise,  Heart  of  lettuce,  grape  fruit,  raisins  seedless 
and  peeled,  lob  of  nuts.  Sea.,  fr.  dres. 


Basket  made  of  Orange  Skin 


Louisette,  Basket  made   w.   grape  fruit,  fil.   pulp  grape 

fruit,  orange,  banana,  small  heart  of  lettuce  in  center, 

fr.    dres. 
Louislannaise,  Gumbo,   gr.   corn,   sw.   pot.,  tom.   gr.  and 

sw.  pep.,  fr.  dres. 
Macedoine,   "Macedonian,"  Mixed  fancy  vege.,  fr.  dres. 

w.   mixed   fruits. 
Maintenon,   Asp.   tips,   heart   of  oysters,    crawfish   tails, 

thi.  mayo.  w.  may.  w.  ere.  Dec.  w.  truf. 

—  357  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mariane,  Knob  celery,  pot.,  truf.,  tongue,  beets  in  jul,, 

tbii.  may.,  dec.  w.  truf.,  torn,  on  top. 
Marie-Louise,   Celery,   bananas,   app.   truf,   in  jul.,   may. 

w.  ere. 
Mazarin,  Knob  celery,  truf.,  fennel  in  jul.,  fr.  dres.,  fi- 

herbs. 
Mephisto,   Heart   of  romaine,   tom.   in   quarters,   jul.   of 

sw.  pep  and  truf.,  highly  sea.,  dressing. 
Mercedes,   Chicory,   beets,  tom.,  celery  in  jul.,  fr.  dres. 

w.   egg  and  fi-herbs. 
Metropolitaine,  Heart  of  lettuce,  tom.  in  quarters,  cele- 
ry, gr.  and  sw.  pep.  in  jul.,  fr.  dres. 
Mexicaine,  Tom.  gr.  and  sw.  pep.,  onion,  frijole,  highly 

sea. 
Mignon,     Art.   gr.   peas,    shrimps,   thi.    may.,    border   w. 

truf. 
Mikado,  Tom.  stachys,  fi-herbs,  fr.  dres. 
Mirabeau,  Pot.,  truf.,  shrimps,  heart  of  oj^sters,  ancho- 
vies, thi.  may.  w.  french  mustard  and  taragon. 
Miss  Maud,  Basket  made  of  grape  fruit,  fil.  w.  alligator 

pears,   grape    fruit,    celery,    bananas,    dres.    and    sea., 

border  very  thin  jul.   of  gr.  pep. 
Moderne,   Celery,  truf.,  ham   in  jul.   cov.   may.   Dec.   w. 

beets,   white   eggs,   caviar   around. 
Monte    Carlo,    String   beans,   fr.    beans,    tom.,   truf.,    sw. 

pep.    in   dice,   fr.   dres. 
Monte-Cristo,    Lobster,    pot.,    truf.,    eggs    in    dice,    heart 

of  lettuce  in  center.  Fr.  dres.  w.  taragon. 
Morgan,   Same   Henri   IVw   .   lettuce   instead   of  celery, 
Moscovite,  Russian  salad  in  mould  parfait,  gar.  w.  ca- 
viar  and   sigui. 
Nassau,  Escarole,  torn.,  celerj'',   gr.   pep.,  fr.  dres. 
Negresse,   Black  pot.   sea.   Border  w.   beets   and   boiled 

whites  of  eggs. 
Neptune,  Divers  shellfish  and  crustaceans,  dec.   divers 

sauce. 
Nigoise,    Tom.    in    quarters,    pot.    in    dice,    string    beans 

in   losanges,    olives    and    anchovies    in    dice.    Dec.    fr. 

dres. 

—  358  — 


SA  L  A  D  S 

Ninette,  Heart  of  lettuce  and  oranges  in  quarters,  bor- 
der w.  sliced  bananas,  candies  cherries  on  top,  dres- 
sing. 

Ninon,  Heart  of  romaine,  grape  fruit  and  oranges  in 
quarters.   Dressing. 

Noces  d'or,  "Golden  Wedding".  See  Fer  a  Cheval  salad. 
Same  horse  shoe,  studded  truf.  Gov.  w.  leaves  of  gold, 
fil.  w.  sliceis  of  alligator  pears,  truf.  cock's  kidneys, 
thi  ravigote  sa.  in  dome  shape.  Dec.  truf.  and  sliced 
cock's  kidneys,  gold  leaves  on  top,  border  w.  shredded 
water  cress. 

Noemie,  Heart  of  lettuce,  carved  hot  chicken,  crawfish 
tails  and  culis,  thi.  ere.  and  lemon  juice  sea.  chervil. 

Norvegienne,    Same    Suedoise.    Pickled    oysters    around. 

Nouveau  Siecle,  Emptied  large  gr.  pep.,  fil.  w.  celery  and 
apples  in  dice  w.  may.  Mark  the  date  of  the  century 
in  roman  letters,  made  of  sweet  peppers. 

Opera,  Ghicken  and  tongue,  celery  and  truf.  in  jul.  sea. 
asp.  tips  in  center.  Dec.  w.  slices  of  cock's  kidneys 
and  pickles. 

Orientate,  Tom.,  gumbo,  Jerusalem  art,  rice,  gr.  and 
sw.  pep.  in  jul.  Dressing  w.  curry. 

Parisienne,  Dec.  mould  lined  w.  jelly,  fil.  w.  fancy  vege. 
and   lobster,   thi.   may.   and   jelly. 

Parmentier,  Pot.  salad  w.  may.  or  fr.  dres.  w.  fi-herbs. 

Pieukerke,  Ghicken,  asp.  tips,  gr.  peas,  truf.  in  jul.  thi. 
may.   Dec.   w.   truf. 

Pom  me  de  terre.  Potato  salad.  See  Parmentier. 

Poire  d'Avocat,  "Alligator  pear"  sliced.  Divers  dressing 
or  used  for  gar.   of  salad. 

Poisson,  Fish,  all  fish  salad,  according  to  name,  divers 

dressing. 
Polonaise,  Pot.  carrots,  turnips,  beets,  cucumbers,  fillet 

of  herring,  hard  eggs  in  dice,  fr.d  res.  w.  fi-herbs. 
Porte   bonheur,   "Good   Luck".   S'ee   Fer   a   Gheval,   gar. 

Divers  dressing. 

Portugaise,  Tom.  in  quarters,  Spanish  onions,  beets, s  w. 

pep.  sliced,  fr.  dres. 
Princesse,   Chicken  in   dice   w.   asp.   tips   and  truf.   thi. 

may.  w.  ere.  fil.     on  art.  bottom.  Dec.  on  top. 

—  359  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Provengale,  Sliced  torn.,  art.,  squash  flower  in  Jul.,  oli- 
ves, anchovies,  garlic,  basil,  fr.  dres. 

Rachel,  Art.,  celery,  pot.,  truf.,  asp.  tips,  dressing. 

Regence,  Raw  sliced  truf.,  asp.  tips,  celery  in  jul., 
sliced  cock's  kidneys,  highly  sea.  w.  fine  champagne, 
oil    and    lemon. 

Rose,  Tom.,  beets,  shrimps,  asp. tips,  apples,  celery  cut 

in  dice,  dressing. 

Russe,  Same  Parisienne  w.  chicken,  ham,  tongue,  ca- 
viar, anchovies,  saucisson  on  salad  bowl,  or  dec. 
mould. 

Saratoga,  Heart  of  romaine,  sliced  bananas,  peeled  and 
seedless  raisins,  gr.  and  sw.  pep.     injul.  fr.  dres. 

Silesienne,  Knob  celery,  apple,  tom.,  art.  in  dice,  fr. 
dres. 

Singapore,  Lobster,  sliced  olives,  shredded  cress,  sea 
chili  sa.  may.   w.   curry.   Highly  sea. 

Somen,  Lamb,  pot.  sea.  fr.  dres.  Dec.  w.  olives,  ancho- 
vies, fi-herbs. 

Stanley,  Heart  of  romaine,  five  sliced  eggs  and  beets 
alternate  w.  gr.  and  sw.  pep.  fr.  dres, 

Suedoise,  Roast  beef,  herring,  beets,  apples.,  pot.  in  dice, 
fr.   dres.,   fi-herbs. 

Surprise,  All  emptied  fruits,  fil.  w.  salad  according  to 
name. 

Suzette,  Asp.  tips,  art.,  truf.,  fr.  dres.  w.  fi-herbs. 

Thermidor,  Endive,  tom.,  beets,  sw.  pep.  Chiffonade 
dress. 

Tomate,  Tomatoes.  Peeled,  whole,  sliced  in  quarters. 
Surprise  gar.  w.  divers  salad.  Dressing  according  to 
name. 

Touraine,  Knob  celery,  carrots,  art.  in  jul.   fr.  dres. 

Tourangelle,  String  beans,  flageolets,  pot.  thi.  w.  may. 
and   taragon. 

Tredern,  Crawfish  tails,  heart  of  oysters.,  raw  truf.,  asp. 
tips,  thi.   crawfish  culis,  highly  sea.   fr.  dres. 

Trianon,   Same  Loie   Fuller.   Dec.   artistic. 

Trophy,  Tom.,  ring  of  onions,  fr.   dres.  fi-herbs. 

Truffes,  Raw  or  cooked.   Divers  dressing  or  gar. 

Turquoise,  Escarole,  celery,  tom.  in  quarters,  may.  on 
top,  with  gr.  and  sw.  pep.  in  dice. 

—  360  — 


SORREL 

Venitienne,    Same    Italienne,    add    chicken      and      roast 

beef,  thi.  Vincent  sa. 
Veronica,    Knob    celery,    beets,    smoked    beef,    escarole, 

fr.   dres.  w.    chiffonade. 
Veronique,   Alligator  pear,   endive,  peeled,   seedless   rai- 
sins, fr.  dres. 
Victoria,      Lobster,    asp.    tips,    cucumber,      thi.      lobster 

culis,    sea.   dressing. 
Virginia,  Knob  celery,   sweet  pot.,  beets,  Virginia  ham, 

fr.    dres. 
Volaille,     Chicken     salad   w.   celery,    thick   may.    or   fr. 

dressing,  gar.  with  lettuce  and  hard  eggs. 
Waldorf,   Celery,   apples   in   jul.,   heart   of   lettuce,    cov. 

may.,   lob.   of  walnuts,   sw.   pep.   in  jul. 
W.    Wilson,    Same   Virginia,   add.    endives.      1000-Island 

dressing. 
Windsor,  Celery,  tongue,  truf.  chicken,  mu.   in  jul.  pic- 

calili,   thick  may.  w.   worchestershire   sa. 
Wladimir,  Russian  fish  cut  in  dice,  lobster,  anchovies, 

agoursi,   stuf.    olives,   horseradish,   thi.   may.,    dec.   w. 

truf.   eggs   and   caviar. 


SORREL    (Oseille) 


A  good  soup  is  made  with  sorrel  and  fine-herbs,  it 
is  also  served  as  a  vegetable  in  its  juice,  with  gravy, 
or  with  cream.  It  can  be  garnished  with  hard  boiled 
or  poached  eggs,  with  marrow,  crust  of  puff  paste,  fri- 
candeau  of  veal,  and  shad.  Sorrel  owes  its  particular 
flavor  to  the  oxalic  acid  which  it  countains.  Cook  in 
a   little   water   and   strain. 

Ciselee.  Shredded,  smothered  w.  butter,  for  soup  or  gar. 
chiffonade. 

Conserve,  "Preserved,"  Pick  and  wash  v^ell,  shredded, 
smothered  w.  chervil  and  chives  in  butter.  Put  in 
bottle,  tie  tight,  let  stand  in  boiling  w*ater  15  minutes. 
For  puree,  smothered,  strained,  sea.  boil,  put  in  small 
jar  or  glass,  when  cold,  cov.   w.   lard  or  oil. 

—  361  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Garniture,  Garnishings;  Pick  sorrel,  wash  well,  smottier, 
strain,  season,  braise,  tlii.  w,  browned  flour  and 
yellow  of  eggs  beaten  in  omelette. 

SPINACH    (Einards) 

Spinach  is  not  a  nutritious  vegetable,,  but  it  has 
certain  laxitive  proprieties,  it  is  eaten  whole,  or  hashed 
Coloring  matter  is  taken  from  spinach,  and  used  in 
culinary  preparations.  It  requires  a  great  deal  of  butter. 
Anglaise,  English  style.  Wash  well,  scald,  drain,  cool, 
and  then  press,  w.  butter,  ere.  sa.,  gratin  or  custard. 
Chartreuse,  In  mould,  dec.  w.  fancy  vege.  fil.  w.  spi- 
nach, thick  cream  and  raw  eggs.  Baked  in  "bain- 
Marie." 
Subrics,  Spinach  cake,  thi.  w.  Bechamel  and  raw  eggs, 

in   pan   w.    Gutter. 
Viroflay,  Lubric  style;   in  branch  w.  fried  bread  crust, 
folded,   cov.   Mornay   sa.,  glazed. 


-^1 


)  ^^ 


Stachys 


STACHYS    (Crosne  de  Japon) 

The  Stachys  is   composed  of  a  great  many  different 
varieties,  the  pulp  is   white  and  tasteless  and  should 

—  362  — 


SQUASH— TOMATOES 


be  highly  seasoned,  it  is  used  as  garnishings.  Clean, 
rub  with  salt,  wash  and  cook  in  salt  water,  do  not 
cook  too  much.  They  are  served  as  fritters,  in  butter, 
cream,  croustade,  croquettes,  puree,  Italian  sauce,  and 
sautee. 

SQUASH     (Courges  et  Potirons) 

All  varieties  of  squash  are  used  for  soups.  The 
squash  is  a  refreshing  vegetable  and  acts  as  a  laxitif. 
Pumkin  seed  tea  is  a  sure  remedy  for  "Tenia".  The 
squash  is  fried,  baked,  saute,  roasted,  creamed  and  "au 
gratin."   Vegetable   marrow,   same   preparation. 

Zuchinini — Italian    squash,    same    preparation. 

TOMATOES 

(Tomates  ou   Pommes  d'Amour) 

The  tomatoe  possesses  hygienic  proprieties  and  is 
an  indispensable  article  in  cooking,  it  should  be  ripe 
and  firm,  is  used  for  soups,  puree,  sautee,  stuffed,  gra- 
tin, surprise  and  jelly. 

Ancienne,  Emptied,  stuffed  w.  duxelles  and  ham,  baked, 
tom.   sauce  or  gravy. 

Carmelite,  Emptied,  fil.  w.  fish  fo-meat,  w.  hard  eggs 
cut  in  dice,  poached,  shrimp  sa. 

Confiture,  "Jam".  For  2  pounds  of  tomatoes,  1^,^  pounds 
of  sugar,   reduce  pulp  for   coloring. 

Etuvee,  Smothered,  peeled,  pressed,  pounded,  sea.  w. 
butter,  for  stev^,  thi.  w.  cornstarch  or  arrowroot, 
little  sugar. 

Farcie,  Stuffed,  according  to  desire,  gratin  w.  duxelles 
Husarde  style,  stuffed  w^  salpicon,  mu.,  gr.  pep.,  ham, 
pickles,  tongue,  highly  sea.,  thi.  w.  Bechamel,  and 
gratin.  Italian  style:  stuffed  w.  risotto  Milanaise, 
Piemontaise  or  Creole.  Provengale  style:  w.  chopped 
onions  fried  in  oil,  garlic,  bread  crumbs,  pounded 
torn.,   anchovies   and  fi-herbs.   Baked. 

Frits,  Sliced  sea.  breaded  English  style  fried 

Grille,    Sliced,    dipped   in   butter     and     bread     crumbs 

broiled 

—   obo   — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Maryland,  Sliced,  pass  in  flour,  fried  in  butter,  on  disk 
w.  molasses  and  brown  sugar.  Baked. 

New  Orleans,  Same  Maryland,  w.  green  corn  and  sliced 
bananas. 

Pelee,  Peeled,  scalded  1  minute  in  boiling  water,  cooled 
Used  for  different  salads,  poached,  stuffed,  codi. 

Puree,  Pressed,  pounded,  cooked  plain  w.  aromatics 
(See  tomato  sauce)   or  soup  and  jelly. 

Salade,  Raw,  peeled,  sliced,  or  cut  in  quarters,  w.  di- 
vers  dressings. 

Sauce,   See   "Tomato   Sauce." 

Sautee,  Peeled,  sliced  or  cut  in  quarters,  sautee  w. 
butter. 

Surprise,  Peeled,  emptied,  filled  w.  different  salads, 
dec,  on  top,  serve  very  cold. 


Large    Cup    garnished    with    Truffles 


TRUFFLES    (Truffes) 

The  truffle  is  the  diamond  in  culinary  art;  it  is 
world  renowned  since  the  days  of  the  Roman  Empe- 
rors, it  is  rare  and  expensive,  possesses  exciting  arom- 

—  364  — 


TRUFFLES— TURNIPS 


atic  proprieties,  and  when  prepared  by  a  culinary 
artist  is  savorous  and  delicious.  While  it  is  used  ge- 
nerally as  a  decoration,  it  is  served  also  as  a  vegetable 
and   as  a  garnishing. 

Bro&sage,  Soak  fresh  truffles  in  cold  water,  brush  the 
sand  off,  of  each  one  separately.  Change  water  and 
brush    again. 

Cendre,  Season  w.  fine  champagne,  brandy,  envelop  in 
paste.  Baked  40  to  50  minutes,  in  oven  or  in  ashes. 

Champagne,  w.  Mirepoix.  Bordelaise  in  glass  jar. 
Champagne,  meat  glace,  1  clove,  sea.  cooked  1  to  2 
hours   in  bain-Marie.     Served  in   silver  cup   or  glass. 

Creme,  Whole  or  sliced.  Burned  w.  fine  champagne 
brandy,  thi.  w.  cream  and  reduce. 

Gastronome,  Emptied  in  case  shape,  fil.  w.  salpi.  foi-g. 
and  woodcock,  smothered  w.  Mad.  sa.  hot  or  cold, 
glazed  w.  jelly  or  in   surprise. 

Serviette,  Same  champagne.   Serve  in  napkin. 

Tim  bale  or  Crust,  Fil.  w.  truf.  according  to  name. 

Truffage,  "Truffed  style".  In  preference  use  fresh  truf. 
peeled,  use  chopped  peel  w.  leaf  lard.  Sea.  Mixed  w. 
whole  truf.  or  cut  in  quarters  w.  good  brandy  and 
Madeira.  Ready  for  chicken,  game,  etc.  truffed  two 
days  before  cooking.  Canned  truffles  can  be  used 
in  the   same  way. 


TURNIPS     (Navets) 


The  turnip  is  a  wholesome  aliment  and  has  the  re- 
putation of  being  useful  in  affections  of  the  throat  and 
lungs.  Turnips  cooked  with  duck,  and  with  chicken 
giblets  are  renowned.  They  are  glazed  like  carrots  for 
soup,  in  cream,  boiled  or  in  puree.  The  culinary  artist 
transforms  the  turnip  into  flowers,  such  as  rases  and 
dahlias,   etc.   for   decorating  purposes. 


—  365  — 


GANCEL'S   CULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 


PASTE  AND  FARINACEOUS 

(Pates   et    Farinages) 

Is  a  mixture  of  flour  and  water,  with  or  without 
yeast,  or  baking  powder.  It  is  impossible  to  publisn  lu 
this  book  the  different  pastes  emploj^ed,  as  it  would 
require  a  volume  in  itself.  I  will  therefore  only  give 
a  few  here. 

NOTE. — Gneral  rules  for  cooking"  are:  temperature 
of  oven  should  be  moderate.  The  time  of  baking  ae- 
peuds  of  the  thickness  of  the  cake. 

CARE    .AFTER    BAKING 

Loosen  edges  with  spatula,  invert  on  cooler,  turn 
right  side  up,  after  a  few  minutes.  All  cakes  made 
with  baking  powder  should  be  mixed  with  flour.  For 
all  preparations  one  can  increase  or  diminish  the 
quantity  according  to  desire.  Moderate  the  salt  in  cake 
according  to  the  amount  in  butter. 

PASTE  AND   FARINACEOUS  COMPOSITIONS 

Amandes,  Bleached  almonds  1  lb.,  sugar  1  lb.,  4  whites 
eggs,   pounded  and   mixed,   flavor  according  to   taste. 

Beignets,  Fritters;  flour  lib.,  water  and  beer  Tgills, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  brandy  and  4  whipped  whites  of 
eggs. 

Angel,  For  one  pound:  sugar  %  lb.,  flour  %  lb.,  corn 
starch  \i  lb.,  cream  of  tartar  V2  ounce, salt  and  vanilla, 
whip  1  qt.  whites  of  eggs  w.  sugar,  mix,  bake  20  to 
25  minutes. 

Baba,  Rum  cake:  flour  lib.,  butter  10  ounces,  yeast 
V2  ounce,  salt,  V^  ounce,  sugar  V2  ounce,  milk  1  gill, 
6  eggs,  let  rise;  mix  w.  2  ounces  of  currants,  2  ounces 
Smyrna  raisins  in  mould,  shape  of  baba,  when  cooked 
dip  in  syrup  w.  rum. 

Beurre,  Butter  cake:  V^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 
Vz  cup  milk,  IV2  cup  flour. 

—  366  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


Breaded,   See  "Panure"   for  divers   styles. 

Brioche,   French   bun:      1   lb.   flour,    Vs  ounce   yeast,   10 

ounces   butter,    %  ounce   sugar,   y-2.  ounce   salt,   8   eggs 

1   gill   warm   water,    beat   after   5   hours   on   mold   or 

pastry  pan. 
Brisee,   Shattered  paste,   1  lb.,   flour,   12   ounces   butter, 

%  ounce  salt,  2  egg  yolks,  water. 
Buns,   IV2  lbs.   flour,    I/2  ounce   yeast,   12   ounces   butter, 

1  ounce  sugar,  i/4  ounce  salt,  ^k  quart  milk,  currants, 
citron,  oranges,  lemon  in  dice,  brioche  style. 

Choux,  Cream  puff  paste:  4  gills  water,  %  ounce  sugar, 
3  ounces  butter,  1/2  lb.  flour,  salt,  8  to  9  eggs,  vanilla 
used  for  cooking  (Never  put  sugar  nor  flavor  in  va- 
nilla used  for  cooking). 

Cookies,  ly^  lbs.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter,  3  lbs.  flour,  %  qt. 
milk,  %  ounce  ammonia,  salt  and  vanilla.  Knead 
roll  thin,  cut,  brush  w.  beaten  yolks,  bake  10  to  12 
minutes.  California  Cookies:  2^^  lbs.  sugar,  lib.  but- 
ter, 3^4:  lbs.  flour,  3  gills  of  egg  yolks,  3  gills  milk, 
11/^  ounces  baking  powder,  juice  of  Xy^  lemons,  milk 
and  flour,  roll  thin,  cut.  Bake  10  to  12  minutes. 

Coulibiac,    Russian   paste:     %  lb.    flour,    V2  ounce    yeast, 

2  gills  milk,  6  eggs,  salt,   same  Brioche. 

Cream    f rites,    Cream   fritters:    lib.   flour,    I/2   lb.    sugar, 

1  pinch  salt,   3   ounces  butter,   24  ^ZK  yolks,  8   eggs, 

2  quarts  milk;  cooked,  when  cold,  cut  in  losange* 
shape  or  fancy,  breaded  English  style,  fried.  Serve 
with    sauces    sweet. 

Crepes,  French  term  for  plain  pancake:  lib  flour,  4 
ounces  sugar,  1^  quarts  of  milk,  salt,  8  eggs,  flavor; 
make  thin  in  small  pan   (See  entremets). 

Croquets  Nantais,  1  lb.  flour,  i/^  lb.  chopped  almonds, 
1/^  lb.  sugar,  8  eggs,  cut  in  slices  immediately  after 
taken    out   of   oven. 

Cheese  Cake,  butter  %  lb.  sugar  V2  lb.,  2  gills  of  q%z 
yolks,  vanilla,  2  lbs.  fresh  cheese,  2  ounces  of  corn 
starch,  6  ounces  flour,  1  quart  whipped  whites  of 
eggs  in  pie  paste  first,  fill  w.  cheese,  baked  25  to 
35  minuts. 

—  367  — 


G  AN  GEL'S   GULINARY   ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Cup  cake,  Sugar  2  lb.,  eggs  20,  flour  3  lbs.,  milk  1  pint, 
baking  powder  2  ounces,  flavor  w.  vanilla. 

Crumpet,  2  lbs.  flour,  1  quart  milk  and  water,  yeast 
iy2  ounces,  1^4  ounce  sugar,  a  little  salt. 

Doughnut,  Flour  2  lbs.,  sugar  ^/^  lb.,  butter  2  ounces, 
1/^  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  1  ounce  baking  powder,  salt, 
vanilla.   Cut  round   with   hole   in   center,   fried. 

Dumpling,  Flour  lib.,  chopped  beef  fat  10  ounces,  mixed 
w.  flour,  2  gills  cold  water,  salt,  4  eggs.  Irish  dum- 
plings:   w.   currants,  yeast  or  baking  powder,  steam. 

Dressee,  Flour  2  lbs.,  butter  5  ounces,  1  ounce  of  salt, 
V^  quart  cold  water. 

Echaudee,  french  cake,  8  eggs,  4  ounces  of  butter, 
1/4  ounce  salt,  carbonate  of  ammonia  2  gram.  Bake 
1  hour,   poached   in   boiling  water. 

Fan-Kouque,  Brioche  paste  rolled,  cut  round,  fil.  w. 
apricot  in   center,    cover   again,   fried,   syrup   w.   rum. 


S^^^^^^'^^ffiS 


Fuff    Fa.ste    I'eady    to    turn 

Feuilletage,  Puff  paste:  lib.  flour,  1  lb.  butter,  ^4  ounce 
salt,  3  gills  water,  5  or  6  turns,  w.  15  minutes  rest 
between  each  turn.  Standard:  3  1b.  flour,  3  1b.  butter, 
%  quart  ice  water,  2  eggs,  salt,  V2  ounce  baking 
powder,  5  turns. 

Flan,   Open  large  tart  pie   paste,  gar.  w.   fruit. 

Foncee,  Flour  1  lb.,  butter  Vz  lb.,  salt  1  ounce,  water. 
Foncee  fine:  flour  lib.,  butter  1  lb., 1%  ounces  sugar, 
y2  ounce  salt,  4  yolks  eggs,  iy2  gills  milk. 

Fin  Biscuit,  Sugar  2  lbs.,  flour,  8  ounces,  I14  ounces 
vanilla,  sugar,  8  ounces  corn  starch,  20  eggs,  salt. 
Base  for  divers  biscuits. 

—  368  — 


PASTE   AND    FARINACEOUS 


Fruit  cake,  Butter  lib.,  sugar  lib.,  18  eggs,  Tibs,  seed- 
less raisins,  2  lbs.  currants,  2  lbs.  citron  and  lemons, 
V2  quart  peach  brandy,  2  ounces  spices.  Soak  raisins 
in  liquor  over  night.  One  pound  of  flour  to  each 
pound  of  fruit.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  add 
raisins,  currants,  citron,  spices,  chopped  bleached 
almonds  and  flour,  i/^  ounce  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
moderate   oven. 

Fondue,  Cheese  fritters,  2  ounces  flour,  2  ounces  butter, 
mak-?  cream  sa.  w.  1  quart  hot  milk,  add  ZV2  ounces 
any  cheese.  Thi.  w.  5  egg  yolks.  After  cold  cut  lo- 
zange  shape.   Breaded,   English  style  fried. 

Fontange,  Divers  batter  used  for  cases.  Heat  iron  in 
hot  fat,  drain,  dip  in  batter  in  hot  fat  and  fry  brown. 

Frangipane,  V2  lb.  flour,  2  ounces  butter,  5  ounces  su- 
gar,  1  quart  milk,  10  eggs,  salt,  vanilla  for  Pithiviers. 
Same  quantity  flour,  batter  and  pounded  almonds, 
S  eggs  and  cream. 


Open    French    Pie     (Flan) 


Frire,  "Frying  batter,  IVz  lbs.  flour,  salt,  milk,  4  egg 
yolks,  oil  or  butter  mixed  slowly,  whipped  whites. 

Frole,  1  lb.  flour,  12  ounces  sugar,  12  ounces  butter, 
111/^  ounces  pounded  almonds,  I/2  ounce  butter,  al- 
monds, 2  eggs,   Vi  ounce  salt. 

Galette,  A  flat  shaped  cake  and  gateau  cake.  All 
Countries   have   special   cakes. 

Gauf re,  Waffle,  1  lb.  flour,  5  ounces  sugar,  2  ounces 
butter,  2  eggs,  1  zeste  of  lemon,  milk  and  orange 
water,  hot  waffle  iron,  or  14  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,    3    teaspoonful    baking   powder,    1    tablespoonful 

—  369  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 
f 

sugar,  114  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  whites  whipped,  1  table- 
spoon butter.    (See  waffle). 

German  Pancake,  4  ounces  flour,  3  eggs,  little  butter, 
1  pinch  salt  and  sugar,  do  not  work  too  much,  in  hot 
pan.     Baked. 

Genoise,  French,  1  lb.  sugar,  16  eggs,  1  lb.  flour,  I/2  lb. 
butter,  vanilla  hot  or  cold,  %  lb.  butter,  salt;  Ame- 
rican, 1  lb.  sugar,  15  eggs,  1  lb,  flour,  y<2.  lb.  butter, 
salt,  V2  ounce  baking  powder. 

Ginger  Snaps,  2  lbs.  flour,  y^.  lb.  sugar,  6  ounces  butter, 
y2.  qt.  molasses,  ^4  pt.  water,  i/^  ounce  ginger  powder, 
y2.   ounce   spices,    %   ounce   baking  soda^   salt. 

Jelly  roll,  3  lbs.  sugar,  4  lbs.  flour,  y^  lb.  butter,  %  qi. 
^ZZ  yolks,  1  1/4  qt.  milk,  4  y^,  ounces  baking  powder, 
1   lemon  juice  and   zeste,   baked   in  a  flat  pan,   8   to 

10  minutes. 

Lady  Fingers,  1  lb.  sugar,  10  ounces  flour,  16  eggs,  salt, 
vanilla,  beat  sugar  and  yolk,  whipped  whites,  mixed 
w.  flour,  on  paper,  moderate  oven. 

Langues  de  chat,  Cat  tongues,  i/4  lb.  pounded  almond, 
1/4  lb.  Hazel  nuts  pounded,  sugar  V2  lb-.  4  whites 
eggs,  work  well,  add  3  ounces  flour,  cooked  in  pan, 
verj^  thin.    Cut  after  taken  out  of  oven. 

Layer  Cake,  2^/^  lbs.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter,  10  eggs,  1  pt. 
milk,  2   lbs.   flour,   1   ounce  baking  powder. 

Macarons,  Half  almonds  paste  and  sugar,  eggs,  whites, 
baked  moderate  oven. 

Madeleine,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour,  8  eggs, 
5  drops  Bergamot  essence,  5  drops  vanilla,  special 
mould. 

Popover,  11/4  lbs.  flour,  1  qt.  milk,  10  eggs,  salt,  stir 
well,  fil.  mould,  baba,  baked  45  min.  in  moderate 
oven. 

Pound  Cake,  White,  3  lbs.  sugar,  214  lbs.  of  butter,  4  lbs. 
flour,  1  qt.  white  of  eggs,  i/^  qt.  milk,  1  ounce  baking 
powder,  banana  extract. 

Pudding-Meat,  Flour  1  lb.,  fat  1  lb.,  salt,  water. 

Pound  Cake  Yellow,  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  lbs.  butter,  ly^  lbs. 
flour,  1  qt.  Q^z  yolks,  %  qt.  milk,  y^  ounce  baking 
powder,  vanilla,  cooked  slowly.  1  lb.  flour,  3  ounces 
butter,   1/^   ounce  sugar,   i/^   ounce  yeast,  1  gill  warm 

—  370  — 


PASTE   AND    FARINACEOUS 


cream,  8  eggs,  put  in  mould,  rise  warm  place,  I/2 
ounce  salt. 

Savoie,  1  lb.  sugar,  14  egg  yolks,  12  ounces  flour,  va- 
nilla, 14  whipped  whites,  cooked  moderate  oven. 

Sponge  cake,  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  lbs.  flour,  4  ounces  corn 
starch,  1  ounce  baking  powder,  14  qt.  warm  water, 
salt,  lemon  extract,  i^  qt.  egg  yolks,  V2  qt.  eggs, 
whipped  whites  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  mixed  w.  yolks, 
salt  and  lemon,  add  water  and  flour,  baked  25  to 
30   minutes. 

Blinis,  Russian  pancake,  8  ounces  flour,  10  ounces  buck- 
wheat, 12  ounces  butter,  %  ounces  yeast,  milk,  salt, 
in  pan  w.   butter,   served  w.   caviar. 

Bordure,  Border  in  paste,  same  quantity  flour,  starch 
and  powdered  sugar,  eggs,  whites  only,  rolled  very 
thin,  fancy  cut,  let  dry,  or  flour  3  ounces,  sugar  glace 
4  ounces,  2  gills  water,  noodles  (see  noodles,  paste, 
rut   according   to   article. 

Ginger  bread,  1  lb.  bran  flour,  12  ounces  molasses, 
2  ounces  butter,  1^  ounce  ginger  powder,  14  ounce 
potash,   y2  ounce  spices,  alum. 

Gnoquis,  Italian  dumpling,  3  ounces  butter,  i/^  qt.  milk, 
salt,  nutmeg,  V2  lb.  flour,  6  eggs,  4  ounces  grated 
parmesan  cheese,  divers  styles.. 

Kache,  Buckmeat  mush,  cold,  cut  for  soup. 

Kiche,  French  open  pie,  fil.  w.  cream  and  eggs,  baked, 
divers   styles. 

Kissel,  3  ounces  fecula,  6  ounces  sugar,  1  qt.  syrup  of 
cranberries,  cooked  22  degrees,  add  fecula,  dip  mould 
in   water,   then   fill   w.    composition. 

Kioses,  German  dumpling,  2  lbs.  potato  pulp,  1%  ounces 
butter,  5  ounces  flour,  2  eggs,  2yolks,  or  V2  lt>-  flour, 
1/2  lb.  melted  butter,  4  eggs,  2  gills  milk,  fried  bread 
crust,   sea.   poached  in  salt  water,  5   minutes. 

Knepfi,  14  lb.  flour,  5  eggs,  milk,  sea.  according  to 
article. 

Kougloff,  1  lb.  flour,  i/^  ounce  yeast,  ^4  ounce  sugar, 
%  ounce  salt,  1  lb.  butter,  2  ounces  malaga,  10  eggs, 
let  rise. 

Lasagne,    A    flat   macaroni.    Same    preparation. 


—  371 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Lute  or  Reper,  Flour  mixed  w.  water  for  lute  and  flour 
and  v/hite  of  eggs  for  reper. 

Macaroni,  Divers  names.  Large  zita,  medium  mezzani, 
fin  macheroncelli,  small  spaghetti  or  vermicelli,  all 
macaroni  cooked  in  salt  boiling  water  poached  20  mi- 
nutes, Napolitaine  thi.  w.  torn.  pu.  butter,  grated  par- 
mesan  cheese,  sea.  Italian,  w.  cheese  and  butter  or 
milanaise.  Gratin  thi.  w.  butter,  cheese  on  dish, 
baked,  Sicilienne  w.  coulis  of  beef,  onions  and  tom. 
on  dish,  layer  of  macaroni  and  sa.  cheese  on  top, 
baked.  Caruso  style,  finest  spaghetti,  cooked  plain, 
separate  sauce  made  of  onions,  fresh  tomatoes,  garlic, 
sea.  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  do  not  break  spa- 
ghetti, also  divers  styles  w.  chicken  livers  mu.  truf. 
and  divers  puree  according  to  style. 

Melba,  Very  thin,  sliced  bread,  toasted  dry. 

Merveilles,  French  cruller,  1  lb.  flour,  3  ounces  butter, 
1^  ounce  sugar,  4  eggs,  salt  fancy  cut,  fried  in  good 
grease,  sprinkled  w.  vanilla  sugar. 

Meringue,  Ordinary,  1  lb.  sugar,  12  whipped  whites 
eggs,  very  hard,  i/4  ounce  salt,  vanilla  or  Italienne 
mix  whites  w.  cooked  sugar,  large  ball  40  degrees. 

Muffins,  1  lb.  flour,  1  ounce  yeast,  %  ounce  salt,  V2  Qt. 
milk,  let  rise   12   hours,   bake  moderate   oven. 

Nougat,  Chopped  almonds,  1  lb.  sugar,  Vs  ounce  juice 
of  lemon,  cooked  light  caramel,   divers   styles. 

Nouilles,  "Noodles",  1  lb.  flour,  15  eggs  yolks,  1/2  ounce 
salt,  after  1  hour  rolled  thin,  keep  dry,  cooked  in 
boiling  water,  same  w.  5  eggs  or  yolks  and  3  eggs. 

Pain,  "Bread",  variety  indefinite   (see  article  bread). 

Pain  Azime,  Bread,  unleavened  bread,  very  fine  flour, 
salt  and   water,   divers   styles,   rolled  very   thin. 

Pain  au  Lait,  Milk  bread,  2  lbs.  flour,  12  ounces  dough 
yeast  or  1  ounce  yeast   (see  bread  article.) 

Pain  au  Beurre,  V2  lb.  butter,  i^  qt.  milk,  1  ounce  sugar, 
salt  and  warm  water,  let  rise  all  night,  made  oval 
shape,  cut  in  center,  brush  w.  beaten  yolk,  cooked 
hot  oven. 

Pain  Biscotte,  1  lb.  flour,  12  ounces  sugar,  4  ounces 
butter,  8  eggs  yolks,  salt,  1  zest  lemon,  cooked  mo- 
derate oven. 

—  372  — 


PASTE   AND    FARINACEOUS 


Pain  d'Epice,  French  ginger  bread,  1  lb.  flour,  hot  ho- 
ney 1  lb.,  sugar  5  ounces,  1  ounce  chopped  almonds, 
2  ounces  chopped  orange  and  citron,  cooked  moderate 
oven. 

Matzoth,  Dry  cake  unleavened  bread,  Jewish  style. 
Pancake  dipped  in  milk,  add  beaten  eggs. 

Panade,  Bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk  or  water  and 
used  in  the  preparation  of  forcemeat  and  stuffing. 
Also  bread  soup,  or  3  gills  water,  salt,  li/^  ounces 
butter,  boiling,  add  flour. 

Pancake,  German,  3  ounces  flour,  3  eggs,  salt,  sugar, 
butter,  in  pan  w.  hot  butter. 

Perdu  (Pain),  "French  toast",  sliced  bread  dipped  in 
beaten  eggs  w.  cream  and  sugar,  flavor,  fried  in 
butter,  gx>lden  colored,  sprinkled  w.  sugar,  serve  w. 
jelly,  jam,  cream  or  syrup. 

Pan u re,  Grated  bread  crumbs,  fresh  or  dry,  used  for 
breaded  divers  articles,  dipped  in  butter  or  English 
style  in  flour  and  beaten  eggs  and  rolled  in  bread 
crumbs,   etc. 

Pate  de  carton,  "Papier-mache",  6  lbs.  whiting,  2  lbs. 
glue,  1  lb.  white  paper,  I14  lb.  flax  seed  oil,  4  ounces 
flour,  soak  and  pound. 

Pate  d'ltalie.  All  Italian  paste,  comes  ready  in  box. 

Pate   a   Pain,    (See  bread  article.) 

Pate  de  Pierre,  Stone  paste,  1  lb.  glazed  sugar,  3  ounces 
Adraganth  gum,  3  ounces  oil,  8  ounces  whiting,  IV2 
ounces  starch. 

Pate  de  Riz,  Ground  raw  rice  diluted  w.  cold  water, 
add  boiling  water.   Cooked  hard. 

Scotch,  Short  bread,  1  lb.  flour,  1/2  lb.  butter,  1/2  lb. 
sugar,  2  eggs,  mix  butter,  flour,  sugar  and  eggs,  beat. 
Make  small  bread.  Brush  w.  beaten  eggs  sprinkled 
w.   sugar.   Baked. 

Pie,  1  lb.  flour,  i^  lb.  butter  or  lard,  little  ice  water, 
salt,    do    not   work   too    much. 

Polenta,  Corn  meal  mush,  an  Italian  dish,  V2  lb.  corn- 
meal,  1  qt.  water,  i/^  ounce  salt,  cooked  25  minutes, 
add  2  ounces  butter  and  2  ounces  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  divers  styles. 

Pretzel,  Special.  Dry  bread  very  salted. 


373  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Profiterole,  Cream  puff  paste.  See  pate  a  choux,  omit 
sugar. 

Quenefe,   See   "Kloses",   poached  in   salt  boiling  water. 

Ramequin,  Cream  puff  paste,  w.  grated  swiss  cheese, 
or  cut  in  dice,   omit  sugar. 

Raviolis,  Noodle  paste  fil.  divers  salpicon,  w.  tom.  or 
sauce  and  cheese  according  to  name.  Bake. 

Sable,  1  lb.  flour,  i/4  lb.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter,  3  hard 
yolks   of  eggs,   salt,   milk,   same   cookies. 

Souffle,  Queen  fritters.  See  choux,  size  of  a  nut  fried 
in  grease,  slowly.  Divers  styles  or  souffle,  2i/^  oun- 
ces fecula,  5  ounces  sugar,  i/^  qt.  milk,  vanilla, 
7  eggs,  salt,  2  ounces  butter,  mixed,  cooked,  add  1  egg 
and  6  egg  yolks,  whipped,  whites  mixed  w.  3  table- 
spoons whipped  cream  in  silver  timbal,  bake  15 
to    20    min. 

Spaetzel,  Same  quenefe  for  soup  or  saute  w.  butter. 

Tarte,   Open  pie   paste   gar.   w.   fruits   or  cream. 

Tortillas,  Thin  Mexican  cakes,  prepared  from  Yucca  or 
manioc   flour.   Same  pancake. 

Viennois,  1  lb.  flour,  6  ounces  butter,  i/^  ounce  yeast, 
6  eggs,  1/^  ounce  salt,  1  gill  milk,  %  ounce  sugar, 
same  brioche. 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  1  lb.  flour,  i^  qt.  milk,  10  eggs,  salt, 
spices,  cooked  slowly  w.  roast  beef  fat.,  add  little 
baking  powder  if  necessary. 

Waffle  or  Gauffrettes  fine,  Flour  1  lb.,  powder  sugar 
5  ounces,  sweet  butter  10  ounces,  salt  i^  ounce, 
eggs  4,  essence  of  bitter  almonds  5  drops,  make  soft 
dough,  rolled  thin,  cut,  cooked  in  special  iron  waffle. 
For  ordinary  waffles,  see  Gauffre  (see  bread  article). 

FARINACEOUS   FOODS 

The  Eastern  nations  live  almost  wholly  on  rice  and 
the  Scotch  on  oatmeal.  The  former  countains  a  greater 
proportion  of  nourishment  than  any  other  article  of 
diet,  and  the  virtue  of  ^  the  latter  is  attested  by  the 
powerful  frames  and  strong  Highlanders.  Fortunately, 
oatmeal  is  coming  into  general  use  amongst  us,  and 
I  hail  and  would  promote  its  production.  As  a  diet  for 
children,    when    eaten    with    milk,    has    no    superior,    if 

—  374  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


equal.  The  dietetic  virtue  of  rye  is  not  generally  ap- 
preciated. Nubolted  rye  flour,  made  into  hasty  pudding 
is  one  of  the  most  easily  digested  things  which  dyspec- 
tics  can  eat.     It  is  also  very  palatable. 

Rye  bread  is  nutritious,  opening,  and  but  for  its  color 
would  undoubtely  rival  wheat.  Barley  bread  was  once 
a  staple  article  of  diet.  The  distillery  should  no  longer 
be  allowed  to  consume  such  an  excellent  article  of 
food. 

All  hot  cakes  are  made  with  baking  powder.  Mix 
flour,  eggs,  milk,  salt,  sugar  and  butter  according  to 
quantity  one  desires.  Buckwheat,  cornmeal,  rice  ana 
wheat  cakes  are  cooked  on  a  hot  iron  plate,  turn  over. 
Serve  with  syrup,  butter  or  honey.   (See  bread  article.) 

CEREALS,    MUSH 

Boil  in  salt  water  15  to  30  minutes,  serve  with  cream, 
milk,  sugar  or  butter, 

FRIED    MUSH 

When  cold,  slice  in  thin  pieces,  fry  in  butter  or 
breaded. 

NAMES  OF  BREAKFAST  CEREALS 

Cornmeal,  Cornflakes,  Cream  of  Wheat,  Farina,  Flap, 
jack.  Force,  Granose  Biscuit,  Fruited  Oats,  Grapenuts, 
Hominy,  Malt,  Breakfast-Food,  Oatmeal,  Primrose, 
Wheat,  Puffed-Rice,  Shredded-Wheat,  Wheatena,  Wheat- 
engrist,  etc. 

NOTE.  —  Pay  attention  that  worms  do  not  get  in  the 
cereals. 

BREAD    (Pain) 

Bread  is  one  of  the  necessities  of  life  and  therefore 
it  is  necessary  to  know   how   to   make   well. 

Bread  making  is  an  operation  divided  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  stock  yeast,  the  ferment,  the  sponge,  the 
dough,  the  moulding  and  the  baking.  In  using  com- 
pressed  yeast   it   saves   time   and   labor.     The   manipu- 

—  375  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

lation  is  divided  in  only  the  sponge,  the  dough,  the 
moulding  and  the  baking.  The  exact  quantity  of  flour 
and  liquids  to  be  used  is  very  difficult  to  state,  as  the 
variety  of  flours  in  the  different  parts  of  the  country 
demand  the  judgment  of  the  necessary  quantity,  espe- 
cially the  straight  dough.  The  usual  heat  of  the  liquid 
must  be  lukewarm  about  70  to  75  degrees  Far.  The 
flour  should  be  kept  in  a  warm  dry  place  and  also  have 
the  same  temperature.  In  summer  the  straight  dough 
may  be  fixed  with  ice  water  instead  of  warm,  as  fer- 
mentation sets  in  some  time  after,  the  flour  will  be- 
come whiter,  being  longer  in  the  dough  state.  The 
oven  is  the  final  and  most  important  operation  ii^  bread 
making,  and  may  spoil  the  best  of  labor  through  care- 
lessness. It  is  important  to  know  ho^v  to  heat  an  oven 
and  ascertain  the  right  heat  required  for  the  different 
kinds  of  bread  and  rolls  as  Ihey  dj^jand  various  kinds 
of  breads  and  rolls  as  they  demand  various  kinds  of 
temperature. 

The  rule  for  baking  is  to  have  all  the  broad  and 
rolls  which  require  the  most  heat  ready  first,  and 
followed  up  with  the  goods  which  demand  a  lesser 
heat. 

HOW   TO    MAKE    STOCK   YEAST 

Boil  five  quarts  of  water,  puL  five  ounces  of  flour  in 
a  jar  and  make  it  into  a  firm  paste  with  a  part  of  the 
boiling  water.  To  the  remainder  of  the  water  add  an 
ounce  of  hops,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  run  through  a  fine  sieve  into  the  jar  and  ovet 
the  paste.  Set  in  a  cool  place  until  liquid  is  lukewarm. 
Dissolve  the  paste  with  the  water  and  add  four  ounces 
of  malt;  cover  and  leave  in  a  warm  temperature  for 
48  hours  without  disturbing.  After  expiration  of  this 
time  strain  this  liquid  in  another  jar.  The  stock  yeast 
is  then  ready  for  use. 

COMPRESSED   YEAST 

Compressed  yeast  being  more  uniform  and  reliable, 
is  preferred  by  most  of  the  bakers,  and  in  places  where 
only  small   quantities  of  bread  is  made,  it  is  more  re- 

—  376  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


liable,  stronger  and  quicker  than  stock  yeast,  and  fer- 
ment; is  not  quickly  affected  by  change  of  weather. 
Furthermore  it  saves  time  and  labor. 

NOTE.  —  Compressed  yeast  must  be  fresh. 

FERMENT 

Wash  7  quarts  of  small  potatoes  very  clean;  place  in 
an  enameled  earthen  iron  pot,  cover  with  sufficient 
cold  water;  put  on  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  pour 
water  off  and  refresh  with  clean  hot  water  and  boil 
until  well  done,  throw  the  potatoes  in  a  large  tub  and 
add  21/^  lbs.  of  flour,  mash  well,  to  reduce  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Dilute  this  paste  gradually  with  24  quarts  of 
cold  or  lukewarm  water,  observing  temperature  and 
season.  Add  5  quarts  of  yeast  and  mix  all  well  to- 
gether. Set  the  tube  in  a  moderately  warm  place  ana 
cover  well  with  a  cloth.  Do  not  disturb  until  fermen- 
tation takes  place,  which  means  when  risen  to  the  dou- 
ble of  its  height  and  falls  again.  Fermentation  should 
take  place  in  from  7  tO'  8  hours. 

NOTE.  —  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  one  barrel 
of  flour.     Use  quantity  you  desire  making  bread. 

SPONGE 

Bread  is  made  either  by  setting  sponge  and  making 
dough  afterwards  or  by  making  a  straight  dough.  In 
making  a  large  dough  you  are  enable  to  make  various 
kinds  of  doughs  out  of  it  and  also  save  yeast.  In  setting 
sponge  dissolve  the  yeast  well  in  the  water  and  mix 
it  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  By  using 
more  or  less  yeast  or  colder  or  warmer  water  or 
making  a  softer  or  firmer  sponge  in  mixing  more  or 
less  flour  into  it,  the  time  of  getting  the  sponge  ready 
can  be  regulated.  When  sponge  is  ready,  mix,  dust 
over  with  flour,  cover  well  and  let  rise.  Sponge  should 
be  ready  in  4  hours  and  is  ready  when  bubbles  begin 
to  show,  which  burst  and  throws  off  gas,  the  sponge 
flattens  and  drops  in  center.  Different  doughs  can  be 
made  in  taking  certain  quantities  of  it,  and  in  adding 
the     necessary     ingredients     for  the   different  desired 

—  377  — 


GAN  GEL'S      CULINARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

doughs,  as  rolls,  breads,  coffee  cakes,  etc.  Sponge 
can  be  set  cold  at  night  and  made  into  dough  in  the 
morning,  or  can  be  set  warm  and  slack  with  additional 
yeast  to  be  taken  after  one  hour's  time.  Straight  dough 
is  made  in  the  mixing  of  all  ingredients  at  the  same 
time,  the  use  of  more  yeast  is  required  than  for  sponge. 
Dough,  according  to  temperature,  by  using  more  or  less 
yeast  may  be  gotten  ready  in  a  few  hours  or  be 
worked  in  the  morning.  Dough  should  be  well  mixeo 
and  kneaded;  after  it  has  risen  it  should  be  worked 
over    several   times    at   different    intervals. 

DOUGH 

Made  of  soft  flour  requires  a  firmer  dough  than  when 
made  of  stronger  flour,  because  it  slackens  after  a 
short  time.  The  age  of  the  dough  depends  on  the 
strength  of  the  flour,  and  its  firmness.  Bread  and 
rolls  should  be  made  up  first,  as  it  demands  a  young 
dough. 

DIVERS   BREADS 
French    Bread    made    with    Ferment 

Set  a  medium  sponge  with  4  qt.  of  ferment  75  deg. 
Part  to  be  ready  in  3  hours.  When  ready  to  drop  add 
1  gallon  of  water  75  deg.  and  6  ounces  salt.  Make  a 
slack  dough  and  beat  it  well,  let  rest  for  1  hour.  Divide 
up  in  iy2  lbs.  pieces,  mould  round  and  put  in  slightly 
floured  boxes.  Flatten  them  down  to  one  third  of  their 
thickness  and  dust  over  w.  flour,  cover  w.  another  box 
air  tight,  let  rise  for  about  20  to  25  minutes,  mould 
them  in  long  loaves.  Set  the  loaves  in  cloth  lined 
boxes  dusted  w.  flour  and  raise  the  cloth  between  each 
loaf  to  serve  as  support,  so  the  dough  in  rising  cannot 
flatten  out.  When  set  transfer  to  peel,  wash  over  w. 
water  and  make  4  or  5  slanting  cuts  w.  a  very  sharp 
knive.  Put  into  oven,  beke  15  minutes.  When  baked, 
wash  again  w.  water. 

French   split   loaves 

Use  a  little  firmer  dough  than  ferment.  Make  them 
up  in  the  form  as  long  Vienna  shaped  loaves  and  set 

—  378  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


them  on  boards.  When  they  are  moulded  and  slightly 
set,  brush  the  top  w.  lard  and  press  each  loaf  length- 
wise in  the  center  w.  a  long  thin  rolling  pin,  like  split 
rolls.  Arrange  the  loaves,  split  side  down  in  cloth 
lined  boxed,  raise  the  cloth  between  each  for  support 
and  let  rise.  Sprinkle  peel  w.  a  little  white  corn  meal, 
turn  split  side  up  on  a  small  board  and  transfer  to 
peel  and  bake  without  washing. 

Dough    made    with    milk 

Different  breads  are  made  of  part  milk,  others  of 
all  milk.  When  using  only  milk,  make  a  straight  dough. 
The  milk  must  be  heated  to  boiling  point  and  cooled 
off  to  temperature  required  to  season.  When  using 
milk  and  water  set  the  sponge  w.  the  water  and  add 
the  milk  when  making  the  dough.  When  making 
straight  dough,  bring  the  milk  to  a  boil  and  add  water, 
let  cool  down  to  desired  temperature  about  75  deg.  All 
milk  bread  takes  more  color  while  baking  and  there- 
fore demands  a  lower  heat,  also  less  time  to  rise. 

Home   made    bread 

Make  a  medium  straight  dough  from  1  gall,  water, 
1/^  gall.  milk.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  point  and  add 
the  water,  cook  down  to  75  deg.  Dissolve  4  ounces 
yeast  in  this  liquid  and  31/^  ounces  of  salt,  4  ounces 
sugar  and  2  ounces  of  butter  or  lard.  Mix  all  ingre- 
dients up  well  with  the  water  and  milk,  make  the 
dough  with  a  good  wheat  flour.  Let  set,  dough  should 
be  ready  in  two  hours  when  raised  to  the  double  of 
its  original  size,  fold  it  over  from  all  four  sides  and 
press  down.  Let  raise  again  for  about  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  fold  over  again,  divide  into  pieces,  mould 
round  and  put  in  boxes,  set  for  about  20  minutes,  and 
make  them  into  loaves,  pressing  two  opposite  sides 
together  with  the  palms  of  the  hands.  Lay  in  the 
moulds,  smooth  side  up  and  set  to  rise  until  the  pan 
is  almost  full.  Bake  and  brush  over  with  a  wash  of 
white  eggs  and  water  well  beaten  together.  Mold 
should  be  only  half  full.  From  the  same  dough  when 
made  in  a  larger  quantity,  you  can  make  Vienna  loaves 

—  379  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

of  2  lbs.  of  dough  each.  Sandwich  loaves  in  single 
loaves  or  made  up  in  American  loaf  style.  (Same  bread 
w.  water.)  Use  1  gall,  water  75  deg.,  3  ounces  sugar, 
3  ounces  butter  or  lard,  3  ounces  of  salt.  This  dough 
should  be  ready  raised  4  hours  or  it  will  flatten  out 
and  lose  its  resistance.  Must  be  worked  well  and  rise 
again  for  20  minutes  (Same  Bread  w.  Ferment.)  Make 
a  straight  dough  with  3  qts.  ferment,  1  qt.  of  water  or 
milk,  5  ounces  of  salt,  80  deg.  Work  the  dough  well 
and  pen  it  close  up  in  the  trough,  let  come  up  and  work 
over,  let  raise  about  half.  Throw  the  dough  on  the 
table,  divide,  mould  around,  put  in  the  box  and  after 
it  sets  for  10  minutes,  form  in  loaves.  Bake  good 
heat. 

Graham    Bread 

Make  a  medium  straight  dough  of  1  gall,  water, 
5  ounces  yeast,  4  ounces  salt,  3  ounces  lard,  and  1  pint 
molasses.  Mix  these  ingredients  well;  add  4  lbs.  of 
graham  flour  and  the  rest  of  wheat  flour.  Let  rise 
about  two  hours  and  work  it  down  again.  Throw  on  a 
table,  mould  up  as  other  bread  in  li/^  lbs.  loaves,  set 
in  pans  and  let  rise  in  the  moulds  to  two  thirds  of 
their  height.  Bake  in  medium  hot  oven.  (S'ame 
bread.)  Use  1  gall,  water,  li^  ounces  yeast,  3  ounces 
salt,  4  ounces  lard  and  %  pint  of  molasses,  use  V2 
graham  and  ^2  wheat  flour.  Let  come  but  once,  work 
it  down  and  mould,  let  rise  for  a  few  minutes;  scale 
and  mould  into  pans,  set  to  size,  bake  in  medium  hot 
oven. 

New  England   Bread 

Make  a  firm  straight  dough  of  1  gall,  water  and 
half  a  can  condensed  milk  75  deg.,  2  ounces  of  salt 
and  3  ounces  sugar.  When  set,  work  it  down  again; 
let  rise  for  15  minutes,  scale  and  work  into  loaves, 
bake  in  moulds  in  good  oven  (Same  bread.)  Make 
20  ounces  corn  meal,  a  mush  to  begin  with.  Make 
straight  dough  at  75  deg.  from  2  gall,  water,  6  ounces 
yeast,  6  ounces  salt,  6  ounces  sugar,  6  ounces  lard  and 
the  corn  meal  mush.  Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly 
with  the  water  before  adding  the  flour.     Cover  and  let 

—  380  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


rise   4   hours.  Work  well   after   this  time   has   elapsed 

and   let  come  up   again   for   about  25   minutes.      Mould 

in   loaves,  let  rise   two   thirds   of  its    height.     Bake   in 
a   good   heat. 

Gluten    Bread 

Gluten  bread  can  be  made  of  water  or  partly  milk 
and  is  treated  like  graham  bread.  For  6  persons  the 
sweetening  and  shortening  is  omitted.  Make  a  straight 
dough  of  2  qts.  of  water  and  2  qts.  of  milk,  li^  ounces 
of  yeast,  3  ounces  salt,  6  ounces  lard  and  V2  Pt-  mo- 
lasses. Use  only  gluten  flour  to  make  the  dough  and 
let  come  up  only  once.  Work  down  and  after  a  short 
interval,  proceed  moulding  in  loaves  as  usual  and 
bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven. 

Pullman    Bread   or  Sandwiches 

For  Pullman  bread  use  any  milk  dough,  which  is  not 
too  stiff.  It  should  be  passed  several  times  through 
rollers  w^hich  are  fastened  to  the  bench  or  table  with 
clamps,  before  moulding  into  loaves.  It  is  used  mostly 
for  sandwiches  especially  in  railroad  cars.  The  pans 
in  which  this  bread  is  baked  should  be  10  inches  long, 
4V2  inches  wide  and  4  inches  high  with  a  sliding  cover. 
Give  %  proof  in  the  pan.  close  the  cover  and  bake 
in  a  medium  hot  oven.  Breads  baked  in  covered  pans 
have  the  advantage  to  retain  their  moisture  longer, 
have  a  better  taste  and  the  crust  is  very  thin.  The 
waste  will  also  be  minimized  when  these  loaves  are 
cut  for  sandwiches. 

Pulled   Bread 

Made  of  freshly  baked  milk  bread  either  in  pans  w. 
sliding  cover  or  in  the  American  loaf  style.  Take  off 
The  crust  and  pull  either  w.  the  aid  of  two  forks  or 
breaking  the  loaf  in  3  parts  and  using  your  hand,  long 
strips,  they  may  have  any  shape,  toast  on  baking  sheets 
in  a  medium  oven  to  a  nice  brown.  Bread  must  be 
turned  once  or  twice  to  have  a  uniform  color  on  all 
sides.     When   oven   is   too   hot   the   inside   will  not   be 

—  381  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

crisp.      Served    w.    almost    every    meal    or    w.    cheese. 
Very  healthy,  especially  for  invalids. 

NOTE.  —  Open  in  case  shape  use  for  divers  culinary 
dishes  served  in  loaf  bread,  or  crust  after  dry,  when 
pounded  it  can  be  used  for  brown  bread  crumbs. 

Raisin    Bread 

Make  a  stiff  dough  of  1  gall,  milk,  boil  the  milk 
first  and  cool  down  to  75  deg.,  add  6  ounces  yeast, 
4  ounces  salt,  12  ounces  sugar,  1  lb.  butter  and  8  eggs. 
Mix  all  these  ingredients  well  w.  the  milk,  and  make 
with  a  strong  flour  a  straight  dough.  Cover  and  let 
rise  for  two  hours.  After  it  has  raised  double  the 
size,  work  one  and  the  dough.  Scale  into  l^/^  lbs. 
loaves  sultana  raisins,  and  li/^  lbs.  currants  in  the 
dough.  Scale  into  l^/^  lb.  loaves,  let  rise  for  20  mi- 
nutes, form  the  loaves  and  put  in  pans.  Pan  should 
be  half  full.  Let  prove  to  %  height  of  the  pan  and  bake 
in  medium  hot  oven. 

Rye    Bread 

Make  a  rather  stiff  dough  of  75  deg.  from  1  gall,  of 
water,  3  ounces  of  yeast,  and  5  ounces  of  salt.  Use 
fresh  rye  flour  mixed  with  the  same  quantity  of  wheat 
flour.  Let  come  up  once,  work  down  and  let  set  about 
10  minutes;  divide  in  2  lbs.  pieces  and  mould  round. 
When  all  are  formed,  shape  right  off  in  long,  round 
pointed  loaves,  pressing  the  seam  well  together.  Place 
on  boards  or  in  boxes  cov.  w.  cloth,  smooth  sides 
down,  raise  cloth  for  support  and  let  come  only  one 
third  its  size.  Turn  on  with  corn  meal  or  rye  flour, 
dust,  peel,  wash  over  with  water,  give  3  or  4  slanting 
cuts  across  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Wash  again  w. 
a  thin  white  white  of  egg;  wash  again  as  soon  as 
taken  from  the  oven. 

NOTE.  —  Also  baked  in  well  greased  pans  which 
is  more  handy  for  the  housewife  (Same  half  rye  bread.) 
Set  a  sponge  w.  2  qts.  water,  1  ounce  yeast  and  wheat 
flour.  When  ready,  add  2  qts.  of  water,  3  ounces  yeast, 
also   some  caraway   seeds  and   make   a  medium   dough 

—  382  — 


PASTE   AND    FARINACEOUS 


Yv.  2  parts  of  rye  and  wheat  flour.  Let  set,  work  down 
and  when  ready  make  long  loaves,  the  shape  of 
Vienna  bread.  Set  in  cloth  lined  boxes  w.  smooth 
sides  down,  raise  the  cloth  between  each.  Let  rise* 
to  two  thirds  its  size  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  washing 
and   cutting   them   before  .baking. 

Boston   Brown   Bread 

2  lbs.  corn  meal,  2  lbs.  graham  flour,  2  lbs.  wheat 
flour,  1  qt.  boiling  water,  1  qt.  molasses,  2  ounces  of 
salt,  3  ounces  yeast.  Scald  the  cornmeal  first,  by 
pouring  the  boiling  water  on  and  stirring  it,  add  mo- 
lasses and  salt.  When  only  lukewarm  add  the  yeast, 
then  mix  in  the  graham,  rye  and  wheat  flour.  After 
a  little  kneading  on  the  table,  grease  the  pan  in 
which  it  was  mixed,  place  the  dough  in  it,  cover  well 
w.  a  cloth  and  let  rise  for  about  6  hours  in  moderate 
temperatured  place.  When  ready,  throw  on  table, 
knead  again  a  little  and  make  in  fine  loaves.  Place 
in  high  round  mould,  especially  for  brown  bread.  Let 
rise  for  i^  hour,  put  the  tight  fitting  covers  on  and 
steam  in  a  steam  chest  about  4  hours  and  bake  for 
20  minutes.  If  there  is  no  steaming  apparatus  the 
bread  can  be  baked  in  a  cool  oven  registering  about 
250  deg.  Set  the  pails  into  a  pan  with  high  borders 
countaining  from  2  to  3  inches  of  water,  put  in  oven 
carefully  and  bake  5  hours  (S'ame  w.  baking  powder 
orsoda.)  1  lb.  graham  flour,  1  lb.  rye,  2  lbs.  corn  meal, 
1  lb.  wheat  flour,  1  qt.  molasses,  3  pints  milk,  2  ounecs 
salt,  1  ounce  baking  soda  or  3  ounces  baking  powder. 
Mix  all  the  flour,  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  add 
salt  and  molasses  and  make  a  soft  dough,  steam  for 
3  hours,  bake  15  minutes  using  baking  powder,  mix  w. 
the  flour. 

Vienna   Rolls 

Set  a  stiff  sponge  of  4  qts.  lukewarm  water,  2  ounes 
yeast  in  summer  and  3  ounces  yeast  in  winter  w.  wheat 
flour,  dust  over  w.  flour  and  let  set.  When  the  sponge 
has  fallen  for  the  first  time  in  the  center  add  2  qts. 
of  lukewarm  milk,  i/^  lb.  sugar,  3%  ounces  salt,  6  ounces 

—  383  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

butter  or  lard.  Incorporate  all  ingredients  well  into 
the  sponge  and  make  a  rather  stiff  dough,  working  it 
in  small  pieces  several  times  over,  which  lay  on  top 
of  each  other.  Let  set  to  double  its  volume,  throw 
the  dough  on  the  bench  and  fold  over,  let  come  up 
again  and  press  down  another  time.  Divide  in  IV^ 
ounces  pieces;  mould  round  and  arrange  in  flour  dusted 
boxes,  dusting  them  over  w.  flour.  After  15  minutes 
you  can  make  up  different  kinds  of  Vienna  bread, 
crescent  salt  sticks,  twists,  weckerl  and  other  shapes. 
All  of  these  different  rolls  are  baked  in  a  medium  hot 
oven.  They  must  be  so  arranged  all  ready  on  the  peel 
that  they  do  not  touch  each  other  while  baking. 

Standard  dough  for  divers  coffee  cakes 
Make  a  stiff  dough  from  1  lb.  of  flour,  2  ounces  of 
yeast,  a  pinch  of  salt,  -i^  ounces  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
ground  mace,  grated  lemon  rind,  2  eggs,  and  lukewarm 
milk.  Set  to  prove;  when  double  its  volume,  work 
2  ounces  butter  into  it  heating  the  dough  well  to  admit 
plenty  of  air.  When  it  ceases  to  adhere  to  the  hand, 
it  is  ready  for  use.  According  to  the  amount  of  goods 
to  be  made,  this  dough  can  be  increased  to  the  quan- 
tity needed. 

Make  small  rolls,  sprinkle  with  chopped  blanched 
almonds,  coarse  granulated  sugar  or  both  almonds  and 
sugar  together,  or  cocoanut,  etc.  The  forms  may  be 
oval  w\  pointed  ends  "S"  shape,  snails  and  others. 
When  they  are  moulded,  set  on  greased  pans  and  let 
rise;  wash  them  over  w.  an  egg,  wash  and  sprinkle 
w.  sugar  or  almonds,  etc.  Some  may  be  only  washed 
and  when  baked  can  be  iced  w.  water  icing,  while  they 
are  hot.  Must  rise  double  its  size.  Baked  in  warm 
oven. 

Divers   special    names  of   rolls 
Breakfast,    Finger,    French,    Crescent,    Graham,    Gra- 
ham Gems,   Milk,  Parkerhouse,  Rye,  Vienna. 

FANCY  ROLLS  EASILY  MADE  AT  HOME 
Coffee   Cake 
2    cups   lukewarm   milk,    l^^    yeastcakes   dissolved   in 

cups    i 

—  384 


PASTE   AND    FARINACEOUS 


warm  place.  Add  2  eggs  or  4  yolks  well  beaten,  Itea- 
spoon  salt,  Vz  cup  melted  butter,  Ya  cup  sugar,  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  that 
can  be  kneaded.  Knead  until  elastic  25  minutes.  Set' 
aside  to  become  light.  Cut  down  and  put  in  pan,  hav- 
ing dough  iy2  inches  thick.  Let  rise  until  double, 
brush  w.  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  w.  chopped 
blanched  almonds.     Bake   moderate  oven. 

Cross    Buns 

Use  sweet  roll  dough,  add  %  cup  currants,  i/^tea- 
spoon  cinnamon.  At  the  end  of  the  second  rising  shape 
w.  cutter  in  round  i^  inch,  in  pan  let  rise,  double.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Finger    Rolls 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar  and  i/^  tea- 
spoon salt  to  1  cup  milk,  add  i/4  cup  water.  Mix  well, 
add  1  stiff  beaten  white  egg  and  31/2  cups  flour.  Knead 
well,   and  let  rise   until   double. 

Cut  20  to  25  pieces  and  roll  out  in  finger  shape. 
Let  rise  until  double.  Bake.  Brush  w.  melted  butter 
after   removing  from   oven. 

French    Light    Rolls 

2  cups  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1^4  cup  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon salt.  When  lukewarm  add  1  yeast  cake  in  i/4  cup 
Avater.  Beat  in  3  cups  flour.  Cover  and  let  rise.  Then 
add  1  egg  and  2  well  beaten  yolks  and  enough  flour 
to  knead.  Knead  well  and  let  rise  again.  Shape  as 
Parker  House  Rolls  in  pans,  let  rise  again,  and  before 
baking  make  3  paralled  creases  on  top.  When  nearly 
done  brush  over  w.  2  egg  whites,  slightly  beaten,  and 
add  little  water  and  spoon  vanilla,  sprinkle  w.  sugar 

Parker    House    Rolls 

2  cups  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  2  teaspoon  salt. 
When  lukewarm  add  1  yeast  cake  which  has  been 
dissolved  in  14  cup  w^ater.  Add  3  cups  flour  and  beat 
vJgourously.     Cover  and  let  rise  until  light.     Cut  down 

—  385  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

and  add  3  cups  flour  and  knead  well.  Turn  into  a 
waiTQ  well  buttered  bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  again. 
Turn  out  on  slightly  floured  board  and  roll  out  to 
%  inch  in  thickness.  Shape  w.  cutter,  dip  blade  of 
knife  in  flour  and  w.  back  of  blade  make  a  crease 
through  the  middle  of  each  round.  Brush  over  %  of 
each  piece  w.  butter,  fold  and  press  edges  together. 
Place  in  pan,  cover,  let  rise,  brush  w.  butter.  Bake 
quick   25    minutes. 

Sweet   Rolls 

'  Dissolve  1  yeast  cake  in  i/^  cup  water.  Addl^/^  cups 
lukewarm  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  2V2  cups  flour. 
Beat  vigourously.  Cover  and  let  rise  lightly.  Then 
add  14  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  egg 
and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Knead  thoroughly,  let  risb 
until  light  and  shape  as  Parker  House  style.  Place 
in  pan,  let  rise  again.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Corn    Bread 

Scald  12  ounces  of  white  corn  meal  w.  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  add  3  ounces  of  melted  butter  or  lard, 
%  ounce  of  salt,  V2  pint  of  cold  milk  and  2  eggs.  Mix 
in  4  ounces  of  white  corn  meal  and  1  ounce  of  baking 
powder.  Stir  all  well  together  w.  an  egg  whisk.  Bake 
1/^  hour  or  more. 

Corn    Muffins 

S'ift  2  ounces  of  baking  powder  w.  1^/4  lbs.  flour.  Add 
1  lb.  of  yellow  corn  meal  to  it  and  mix  well  together. 
Cream,  8  ounces  of  butter  and  12  ounces  of  sugar,  rub 
into  a  slack  dough,  with  the  flour.  Divide  in  muffin 
pans  and  bake  in  a  good  heat.  Should  make  3  dozen 
muffins. 

Tea   Biscuits 

Rub  3  ounces  lard  and  3  ounces  butter,  also  3  ounces 
baking  powder,  6  lbs.  flour,  add  3  pints  of  milk,  a 
little  salt,  mix  to  a  soft  dough ;  do  not  work  the  dough 
too  much.  Roll  about  i/^  inch  thick,  cut  on  greased 
pan.  Let  stand  15  minutes.  Brush  over  w.  egg,  wash 
and   bake   good  heat.     Brush  over   w.   butter. 

—  386  — 


PASTE   AND   FARINACEOUS 


Griddle   Cakes 

Griddle  cakes  may  be  made  w.  yeast  as  well  as 
baking  powder.  Baking  powder  cakes  do  not  require 
as  much  time  as  yeast  raised  cakes,  but  griddle  cakes 
made  w.  yeast  are  the  better  ones.  The  griddle  plate 
must  be  clean,  well  greased  and  hot,  to  avoid  sticking 
and    burning. 

Wheat  Cakes,  etc. 

Sift  1  lb.  flour,  3  ounces  sugar  and  a  little  salt  and 
1  ounce  baking  powder.  Mix  w.  milk  enough  to  make 
a  thin  running  batter,  add  3  well  beaten  eggs  and 
1  ounce  melted  butter  into  buckwheat,  corn  or  Indian 
meal,   graham,   rice,   etc. 

Waffles 

Beat  4  ounces  powdered  sugar  well  w.  16  eggs  ,add 
1  qt.  milk  and  mix  2  lbs.  and  4  ounces  flour  into  this 
to  obtain  a  smooth  paste,  free  from  lumps,  beat  then 
12  ounces  of  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  mace  or 
lemon  flavor  well  into  the  butter  and  mix  two  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  to  the  whole  prepara- 
tion.    Bake  in  hot  well  greased  waffle  iron. 

Cream    Waffles 

Beat  12  ounces  butter  w.  10  whole  and  6  yolks  ov 
eggs,  add  3  ounces  of  sugar,  flavor  and  add  l^/^  lbs. 
flour.  Into  this  mix  slowly  1  pint  of  whipped  cream 
and  6  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

French    Waffles 

6  ounces  sugar,  1  lb.  flour  and  little  salt.  Put  in  ^ 
bowl  and  make  a  hollow  in  center.  Beat  14  yolks  of 
eggs  w.  milk  v.'ell  and  make  a  smooth  batter  w,  the 
flour.  Add  cup  brandy  and  1  ounce  melted  butter.  Mix 
well  into  1  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  stiff  beaten 
14  whites  of  eggs.  If  the  batter  must  stand  any  length 
of  time  add'a  little  baking  powder.     Bake  as  usual. 

—  387  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Holland    Waffles 

Make  a  sponge  of  12  ounces  flour,  l^/^  ounces  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  flavor,  3  eggs,  6  ounces  melted  butter, 
2  ounces  yeast  and  1  pint  lukewarm  cream.  Let  set, 
beat  and  let  rise  a  little  again.     Bake  as  usual. 

Divers  Waffles,  Add  rice  or  Indian  meal,  etc. 

All  these  receipts  come  from  the  Waldorf  Astoria 
New  York. 

NOTE. — For  complement — See  Pastes  and  Farina- 
ceous. 


CHEESE — Imported    and    domestic    (Fromage) 
There  are  so  many  different  kinds  of  cheese  that  it 
is  impossible  to  name  them  here,  therefore  I  will  only 
write    the   principal   ones. 

Cheese  is  a  good  aliment,  and  there  is  no  dinner 
complete  without  it.  Pick  out  cheese  that  is  ripe,  and 
be  careful  of  imitations.  France  is  the  first  country 
in  the  world  to  produce  the  best  cheeses. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Am.,  American;  Eng.,  English;  Fr.,  French;  Ger., 
German;  Ita.,  Italian;  Spa.,  Spanish;  Sw.,  Swiss;  Turk., 
Turkish. 

All.  American  or  Domestic.  Appenzell-Sw.,  Banon-Fr., 
Bloder-Ger.,  Brie-Fr.,  Brighton-Eng.,  Briquebec-Fr., 
Caccidi  Cavallo-Ita.,  Camembert-Fr.,  Cachere-Turk., 
Cheddar-Eng.,  Chester,  Cheshire-Eng.,  Coulomiers-Fr., 
Cream  Cheese,  all  country,  Edam-Holl.  Emmenthal-Sw., 
Gerome-Fr.,  Gervais-Fr.,  Gessenay-S'w.,  Gorgonzola-Ita., 
Gruyere-Sw.,  Herve-Belg.,  Limbourg-Ger.,  Livarot-Fr., 
Luxembourg-Lux.,  Mont  d'Or-Fr.,  Munster-Eng.,  Neul- 
chatel-Fr.,  Old  England-Eng.,  Oregon- Am.,  Parmesan-Ita., 
Pont-rEveque-Fr.,  Port-Salut-Fr.,  Queso-Spa.,  Roquefort- 
Fr.,  Schabziger-Sw.,  Stilton-Eng.,  Wofe-Belg.,  Strochino- 
Ita.,  Swiss-Sw.,  Soya- Japanese  or  Taa-Foo-Chinese. 

—  388  — 


SWEET   DISHES— FRUITS' 


SWEET   DISHES    (Entremets) 

"Entremets"  is  a  French  term  meaning  sweet  dishes. 
The  French  kitchen  recognizes  two  kinds  of  entre- 
mets—  entremets  de  douceur,  a  course  of  sweet  dishes, 
and  entremets  de  legumes,  a  course  of  vegetables  serv- 
ed by  themselves  quite  customary  in  France.  The  vege- 
tables are  now  served  with  meat  or  game,  sweet  dishes 
as  dessert.  Sherbet  or  punch  is  served  before  the  roast 
to  facilitate  the  digestion.  The  "entremets"  of  fruit  is 
served  hot  or  cold.  Sauces  are  composed  of  cream  or 
syrup  of  fruits,  according  to  the  style  of  the  fruit.  All 
of  the  following  recipes  can  be  applied  to  apricots,  pine- 
apple, peaches,  cherries,  pears,  apples,  strawberries, 
raspberries,  bananas,  melons.  Add  flavor  according  to 
desire.  The  fruit  is  placed  in  a  light  syrup,  and  flavor- 
ed with  vanilla.  Rub  all  white  fruits  with  lemon  juice 
and  do  not  let  cook  too  long.  A  great  many  of  these 
entremets  can  be  served  in  the  place  of  ice  cream. 


Fruits 


FRUITS 

Fruits  prevent  or  remove  constipation,  and  often  act 
like  a  charm  upon  body  and  mind;  and,  eaten  with 
^ood  bread,  nothing  is  equallly  palatable  or  wholesome. 

—  389  — 


GAN  GEL'S      GULINARY      ENGYCLOPEDIA 

First  class  fruit  and  Graham  Bread  make  a  delicious 
breakfast,  also  berries  with  bread  and  milk,  and  good 
apples,  baked  or  raw.  Apples  keep  the  entire  year,  and 
pears  of  the  very  best  varieties  can  be  kept  till  the  ap- 
pearance of  strawberries  the  next  year.  Pears  and  plums 
can  be  kept  the  year  round  as  easily  as  apples,  and 
summer  fruits  by  bottling  can  be  kept  perfectly  fresh 
a  year,  and  by  the  use  of  hot  houses,  f i  uit  can  be 
packed  from  the  trees  in  winter  or  spring.  We  can  also 
preserve  them  and  make  into  jellies.  Yet  this  process, 
besides  deteriorating  from  their  flavor,  impairs  their 
digestibility.  Preserves  are  too  rich.  Their  nutrition 
is  too  much  concentrated.  Most  kinds  of  fruits  can  be 
dried,  and  thus  kept,  though  this  process  dries  out 
much  of  its  goodness,  as  well  as  sweetness.  Yet  dried 
fruit  stewed  is  far  better  than  none.  Stewed  apples 
sweetened  make  an  excellent  relish  with  bread.  Yet 
after  all  nothing  equals  simple  bread,  and  choice  fruits, 
if  people  only  knew  it,  both  for  health  and  luxury. 
Green  fruit  is  most  pernicious.  Nor  do  we  realize  how 
many  children  especially,  lose  their  lives  directly  or  in- 
directly thereby.  When  it  does  not  kill  immediately  it 
often  deranges  the  stomach,  breeds  worms,  and  induces 
other  diseases,  which,  sooner  or  later,  complete  the 
work  of  death  begun  by  green  fruit.  Foreign  fruits  are 
good  but  indigenous  are  better.  Nature  adopts  the  pro- 
duct of  every  climate  to  its  dietetic  requisitions;  and 
hence  has  made  those  fruits  to  flourish  best  in  every 
climate  which  its  inhabitants  require. 

Lemonade  is  healthy  and  delicious  yet  this  opinion 
is  based  on  experience  rather  than   science. 


ABBREVIATIONS 

Com,  Gomposition;  Cov,  Govered;  Cre,  Gream;  Dec, 
Decorated;  Gar,  Garnished;  Liq,  Liquor;  Perf,  Perfume; 
Poa,  Poached;  Pu,  Puree;  Sa,  Sauce;  thi,  thicken;  w, 
with. 

—  390  — 


FRUITS— ENTREMETS  ' 


SAUCES    FOR    SWEET    DISHES    (Sauces) 

Anglaise  "English"  1  qt.  milk,  1  lb.  sugar,  work  well  w. 
16  egg  yolks,  cook  in  bain-marie,  vanilla,  lemon,  etc. 
Add  liquor  when  cold.  Same  composition  used  for 
French  ice  cream. 

Chocolat,  14  lb.  chocolate,  4  gills  water,  1  ounce  sugar, 
vanilla,  thi-cre.,  one  nut  butter,  add  sugar  If  neces- 
sary. 

Fruit,  Pu.  all  fruit  or  jam,  add  syrup. 

Sabayon,  1  lb.  sugar,  12  egg  yolks,  work  well.  Moisten 
5  gills  white  wine,  cooked  in  bain-marie.  Vanilla, 
brandy,  kummel,  rum,  kirch-wasser,  etc.  (See  Sa- 
bayon  Sauce). 

Sirop,  syrup,  made  w.  sugar  15  degrees  thi.  w.  fecula, 
add   pu.   of   fruit  or   liquors. 

FRUITS    ENTREMETS 

Aiglon,   Cold.   Poa.   on  vanilla  ice  cream.   Gov.   w.  spun 

sugar.    Candied   violets   around. 
Alexandra,    Cold.    Poa.    on   vanilla    and    strawberry    ice 

cream.    Cov.   spun   sugar,   pink   and   white,    sprinkled 

w.   candied   rose   petals,   pink   and   white. 
Alice,   Bavaroise   w.   burnt   almonds.    Cov.   w.    Chantilly 

cream.  Latticed  w.  currant  jelly,  crust  w.  puff  paste 

around. 
Alma,  Cold.  Poa.  w.  port  wine,  rolled  in  burnt  almonds. 

Chantilly  cream  around. 
Almina,   Cold.   Emptied   fil   bavaroise     w.     violets,   add 

lady  fingers,  dipped  in  marachino.  Cover  again. 
Andalouse,   Hot.   Poa.   on   rice  vanilla.   Cov.   w.   colored 

pink  meringe,   fruit   sa.   around. 
Aurore,    Cold.    Poa.   on    strawberry   mousse   ice    cream, 

Sabayon   sa.   w.   curagoa. 
Baquet,  Cold,  in  tub  made  of  biscuit,  fil.   w.  poa.  fruit 

dec.  cream  according  to  fruit. 
Barquette,  Cold,  boat  made  of  paste,  fil.  w.   fruit,  dec. 
Bateiiere,   Same    Barquette,   hot,   fil.    w.    rice,    fruits   on 

top.   Sa.  according  to  fruit. 

—  391  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bavaroise,  Cold,  5  gills  pu.  of  fruit,  5  gills  syrup,  30 
degrees,  juice  of  3  lemons,  1  ounce  gelatine,  i/^  qt. 
whipped  cream.   (See  Bavaroise  for  composition.) 

Bebe,  Cold,  Emptied  on  genoise  biscuit  fil.  w.  straw- 
berry ice  cream  and  fruit,  dec.  icing  fruit,  whipped 
cream  around,  flavor. 

Beignets,  Fritters.  All  kinds  of  fruit,  dipped  in  frying 
batter,  fried,  fruit  sa.   flavor  or  liquors. 

Beurre  (au),  Hot.  Poa.  or  baked  w.  sugar  and  sweet 
butter.     Cov.  w.  apricot  sa.  on  biscuit. 

Blanc  Manger,  Cold.  Pu.  of  fruit  w.  almond  milk  in 
emptied  fruit  and    blanc-manger   (see  blanc-mange). 

Bonne  femme,  Hot  baked  natural  fruits  w.  butter,  sugar 
and  little   water,   apples   and   pears  preferable. 

Boulots,  Dumpling  made  w.  pears  in  bread  dough. 
Baked. 

Bourdalou,  Hot  poa.  on  border  of  vanilla,  cov.  w.  cream 
frangipane  and  crushed  macaroons,  glazed. 

Chatelaine,  Hot,  emptied,  fil.  w.  fruit  pu.  and  salpicon 
of   cherries   cov.  w.   crushed  macaroons,   glazed. 

Cardinal,  Cold  poa.  on  vanilla  ice  cream  cov.  w.  rasp- 
berry pu.  or  hot  on  biscuit  cov.  w.  raspberry  syrup 
crushed    macaroons,    glazed. 

Carignan,  Cold  poa.  emptied  fil.  w.  chocolate  ice  cream 
cov.  w.  icing  on  genoise  biscuit. 

Chantilly,  Cold,  all  fruits  w.  whipped  cream,  cov.  w. 
cream  or  in  punch  glass  dec.  on  top,  flavor. 


Charlotte  Russe 
—  392  — 


FRUITS— ENTREMETS 


Charlotte,  Cold  or  hot,  mould   surrounded     w.     biscuit 

sliced  or  pu.   according  to  fruit.     Fruit  sa.  around. 
Chateau-Lafitte,  Cold  poa.  w.  wine  thi.  w.  currants  and 

raspberry  jelly  on  biscuit. 
Chevreuse,  Hot  poa.  border  of  farina,  fruit  salpicon  in 

center  cov.  w.   meringue,   baked. 
Colbert,    Hot    emptied    fil.  ,w.    rice    and    pulp,      breaded 

English   style,   fried  fruit,   sa.   served   separately. 
Compote,  Whole  poa.  on  syrup  12  to  18  deg.  w.  flavor 

served  cold  in  glass  stand,  hot  w.  sa. 
Conde,    Hot   poa.    on    vanilla    rice    dec.    w.    candy    fruit, 

fruit   sa.  according  to  name. 
Confiture,  "Jam"  juice,  puree  or  pulp,  sugar  according 
to  quantity  of  fruit  used,  juice  1  lb.  for  IV2  lb.  sugar. 
(See  confiture  article.) 
Creole,    Hot   poa.    on   vanilla    rice    or    in   emptied    pine- 
apple, apricot  sa.  w.  rum. 
Creme,   "Cream".    Cold   fruit   or   pu.   mixed   w.   whipped 

cream  or  in  emptied  fruit.     (See  Bavaroise.) 
Crepes,    "Pancake",     French   term   for    plain    pancakes, 

entremets.    (See   miscellaneous.) 
Croquette,  Hot  salpicon  according  to  fruit,  thi.  w.  fran- 
gipane,    breaded   English   style,    fried,   fruit   sa.    (See 
croquette.) 
Croustade,   Crust.   Divers,   styles   fil.   w.    fruit,    syrup   or 

cream  according  to  name,  hot  or  cold. 
Cussy,    Hot,    poa.    on   macaroons    fil.    w.    fruit    salpicon 

cov.   w.    Italian   meringue,   color   in   oven. 
Dame  Blanche,  Cold,  poa.  on  vanilla  and  pineapple  ice 

ere.    whipped    ere.    around. 
Daremberg,  Hot  in   emptied   French   bun,   apricot   sa. 
Diable,   "Deviled"  hot  poa.  natural  or  cov.   w.  whipped 
ere.    pounded    macaroons    and    almonds,    sprinkle    w. 
liquor    and    burn. 
Diplomate,    Cold   poa.    on   genoise   w.    bavaroise,   put   m 

mould,  dec.  fruit  sa.  when  taken  out  of  mould. 

Douillon,  Hot.  French  dumpling  made  w.  apples,  bakeo. 

Dubarry,   Cold.    In   tartelet   cov.   w.    whipped   ere.,   pmk 

and  white,   dec.   on   top.  .  :,    ■         ff 

Dumpling,  Hot.   Generally  peeled  apples.  Baked  m  puff 

paste.  Brandy  sa.  made  w.  sweet  butter. 

—  393  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Favart,  Hot  Poa.  in  crust,  emptied  french  bun,  gar. 
w.   candied   chestnuts,   apricot   sa.   w.    chestnut  pu. 

Favorite,  Hot.  Poa.  Cov.  w.  frangipane  ere.  w,  chopped 
pistachio,  dipped  in  fiTing  batter,  fried,  divers  sa. 

Felicia,  Cold.  Poa.  on  Viennoise  ere.  cov.  w.  whipped 
ere.  gar.  according  to  fruit  around. 

Femlna,  Cold.  Poa.  steeped  in  curagao  in  cup  crust,  fil. 
w.  orange  ice  cream. 

Feu  d'Enfer,  Hot.  All  fruit,  poa,  cov.  divers  liquor  and 
sugar,  burned  on  table. 

Flambe,  Hot.  All  fruit  poa.  w.  syrup,  divers  liquors, 
burn  on  table. 

Flan,  Open  pie  gar.  w.  fruit  according  to  name. 

Flamri,  Cold.  Bavaroise  of  semolina  w.  white  wine  and 
water,    Cov.   w.   raw  pu.   of  fruit. 

Florentine,  Cold,  Poa,  on  , border  of  farina  w.  wine, 
bavaroise  fruit  sa. 

Fraisalia,  Cold  Poa.  in  crust,  or  in  emptied  Savarin 
paste  or  Bavaroise  w,  fruit,  gar.  w.  whipped  ere. 
around. 

Frappe,  Cold.  Poa.  whole  or  emptied  and  refilled  w. 
ice  cream,   salpicon  or  ere.,  partly  frozen. 

French  Toast,  Gar.  w.  fruits  or  jam.   (See  pain  perdu.) 

Fruits,  All  fruits,  poa,  pu.  jelly,  salpicon  syrup,  accord- 
ing  to    fruit. 

Gabriel le  or  Gaby,  Hot.  Poa.  on  border  of  apple  char- 
lotte gar,  w,  fruit  salpicon,  thick  cream  of  almonds, 
dec.  w.  cherries. 

Gelee,  "Jelly".  Cold.  1  lb,  10  ounces  sugar,  1  qt,  juice. 
(See    Gellee    according    to    fruit. 

Georgette,  Cold,  Poa.  in  emptied  pineapple  fil.  w,  ba- 
varoise pineapple. 

Gratine,  Hot  poa.  fruit  on  biscuit.  Cov.  frangipane  and 
pounded  macaroons.    Baked,  fruit  sa. 

Greque,  Greek.  Cold.  Poa.  on  vanilla  rice  w,  cooked 
fresh  figs,   fruit  sa,   w,   Kirsch, 

Helene,  Cold,  Poa,  on  vanilla  ice  cream,  hot  chocolate 
sa.   Candied  violets. 

Hilda,  Cold.  Fruit  souffle.  Gar.  w.  strawberries,  rasp- 
berry sa.   around. 

—  394  — 


FRUITS— ENTREMETS 


Imperatrice,  Cold.  Poa.  fruit  on  rice,  biscuit  or  vanilla 

ice   cream,    dec.    fruit   sa.   w.    kirsch   or   bavaroise   w. 

rice.   fil.   w.    salpicon   of  fruit. 
Irene,  Cold  poa.  emptied,  refilled  w.  vanilla  ice  cream 

mixed  w.  juice  of  fruit. 
Italienne,    Cold,   sliced   Eugenia    w.    maraschino   on    Ita- 
lian water  ice.  Cream   Chantilly  around. 
Joe,  Cold  fruits   steeped  w.  kirsch  and  maraschino,  in 

crust,  generally  strawberries  and  oranges. 
Joinville,   Cold   poa.   between   sliced   savarin   cake,   cov. 

Chantilly    ere.    dec.    chocolate    pastiles    and    fruit    sa. 

around. 
Jubile,  Hot  cherries   poa.   thi.   currant  jelly,  burned  w. 

kirsch. 
Juive,  Hot  cocotte  surrounded  noodle  paste,  filled  apple 

marmalade  w.  raisins,  spices,  malaga  wine  cov.  w.  pie 

paste,    baked. 
Lerina,   Cold  poa.   pickled  in  Lerina  liquor. 
Liqueur,  Cold,  fresh  fruit  pickled  in  liquor,  or  poa.  w. 

fruit   sa.   or   liquor   burned. 
Lombarde,   Cold  poa.  on   rice   cov.   w.   chantilly  ere.   w. 

maraschino. 
Louise,   Cold   poa.   fruits,   emptied   gar.   w.   blended   ice 

cream. 
Lyonnaise,  Hot  crust  or  silver  timbale,  fil.  w.  fruits  and 

icing  chestnuts,  fruit  sa.  w.  kirsch. 
Macedoine,  Hot  or  cold,  fruit  salad  steeped  according  to 

liquor  you  desire,  thi.  syrup  or  fruit  sa.   (See  salad). 

Served  in  glass  or  crust. 
Madere,   Hot   poached   on   sliced   browned   biscuit,   dec. 

syrup  w.  madeira  or  in  crust. 
Maintenon,   Hot   poa.   on    biscuit,    cov.    w.     frangipane 

cream,  dec.  w.  Italienne  meringue,  baked,  fruit  sa. 
Maltaise,   Cold  poa.  on  rice  w.   preserved  orange   peel. 

dec.  w.  orange,   orange  sa. 
iViarechale,  Hot,  poa.  fruit  in  emptied  French  bun,  pra- 
line around,  fil.  w.  fruit  salpicon,  fruit  sa.  w.  liquor. 
Marguerite,  Cold,  poa.  on  pomegranate  sherbet,  cov.  w. 

Chantilly  cream  w.  maraschino. 


395 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Marie-Louise,  Hot.  poa.  on  genoise  biscuit  fil.  w.  fruit 
salpicon.  cov.  Italieune  meringue,  baked,  fruit  sa.  w. 
kirsch, 

Marrons,  Chesnuts  glazed,  preserved,  puree  w.  Cbantilly 
cream,  etc. 

Mary  Garden,  Cold  poa.  in  crust  or  silver  timbale,  fil. 
w.  raspberry  ice  cream,  dec.  w.  chantilly  ice  cream, 
bordered  w.  candied  violets. 

Melba,  Cold,  peach  poa,  on  vanilla  ice  cream  cov.  rasp- 
berries pu.  Sprinkled  w.  macarons. 

Mephisto,   S^me   Diable.   According  to   fruit. 

Meringue,  Hot  or  cold,  poa.  on  divers  borders  or  bis- 
cuit cov.  w.  Italienne  meringue,  dec.  baked,  sa.  at> 
cording  to  fruit. 

Mexicaine,  Cold,  sliced  biscuit,  browned,  gar.  w.  poa. 
fruit,  ice  cream  plombiere  in  center,  fruit  sa. 

Milady,  Hot,  poa.  on  vanilla  ice  cream  cov.  w.  Italienne 
meringue,  baked. 

Mignon,  Cold,  poa.  in  shell  of  meringue,  cov.  w,  Eng- 
lish cream  w.  fruit  salpicon  of  fruit. 

Montmorency,  Cold,  bavaroise  w.  cherries  on  biscuit 
gar.  chantilly  cream,  strawberries  around. 

Montreuil,  Cold,  poa.  on  ice  vanilla  and  raspberneis, 
apricot  sa.  around. 

Mont-Rose,  Cold,  poa.  fruit  in  charlotte  plombiere  ic& 
cream  cov.  w.  chantilly  ere.  w.  strawberries. 

Moscovite,  Hot,  poa,  emptied  fil.  w.  fruit  souffle  w. 
kummel. 

Moule,   Cold   moulded   fruit,   fruit-sa.    (See   bavaroise) 

Mousse  and  Mousseline,  Bavaroise  of  fruit  w.  whipped 
cream,  according  to  name,   (See  Bavaroise). 

My  Queen,  Cold,  poa.  on  fruit  bavaroise  border,  vanilla 
ice  cream  in  center  w.  strawberries  gar.  glazed  ginger. 

Ninon,  Cold,  poa.  on  vanilla  ice  cream  w.  strawberries 
cov.  raspberry  pu.  and  chopped  pistachio. 

Normande,  Hot  poa,  on  apple  charlotte  border,  dec,  fruit 
sa.  w.  cider  brandy.  (See  Bouillon). 

Norvegienne,  Cold.  poa.  emptied  refilled  w.  fruit  pu. 
and  ice  cream,  cov.  w.  Italienne  meringue  and  rum, 
baked. 

—  396  — 


FRUITS— ENTREMETS 


Nuee    Rose,   Cold,   chantilly  cream  w.   raspberry  pu.   in 

crust. 
Omelette,  All  omelettes  gar.  w.  fruit  according  to  name, 

same  syrup  around,  or  cov.  w.  comp.  souffle  or  Italian 

meringue,  bake. 
Opera,  Cold.  Bavaroise  w.  burnt  almonds  in  border,  fil. 

w.  fruit  salpicon  in  center  cov.  w.  chantilly  cream  and 

candied  violets. 
Orient?.le,  Cold  or  hot.     Crust  made  of  French  bun  em- 
ptied, dec.  around  w.  almonds  and  candied  fruit,  fill. 

w.   salpicon  of  fruit,  thicken  apricot  sa.  w.  kirsch. 
Pain,   Cold  dec.  mould  fil.  w.   fruit  pu.   fruit   sa.   Bava- 

roise  style,  according  to  fruit. 
Palikare,   Hot,   emptied   fil.   w.     fruit   and    vanilla    ric«> 

fruit  sa. 
Panequets,  French  crepes  fil.  w.  fruit  salpicon  or  jelly,. 

rolled  powdered  sugar,  glazed. 
Panier,   Cold.   Fancy   basket   fil.    w.    fruit   or   cream   w. 

fruit,  etc.  divers   styles,  fruits  according  to  name, 
Parisienne,   Hot.   poa.  on  genoise  biscuit  and   rice  coy. 

w.  Italienne  meringue,  dec.  w.  candied  fruits. 
Paysanne,  Hot.  Fruit  baked  w.  water  sugar  and  butter. 
Petit    Due    Cold.   poa.    on    vanilla   ice    cream    w.    sliced 

pineapple,  and  cnrrant  jelly. 
Plombiere,   Cold.   Charlotte   w.   plombiere   ice  cream,  or 

fruit,  poa.  on  ice  cream  plombiere. 
Portugaise,    Hot.    poa.    emptied    fil.    w.    frangipane   and 

orange  peel  on  farina,  fruit  sa.  w.  orange  peel  around. 
Praline,  Hot  fruit  compote  cov.  w.  frangipane  cream  and 

chantilly  ere.  w.  praline.    (Candied,  burned  almonds). 
Printaniere,  Cold,  poa.  on  strawberry  jelly,  cov.  chantil- 
ly flour  cream,  violet  and  candied  violets  around. 
Pudding,    Hot    or    cold    cream    composition    w.    pu.    of 

fruit  thi.  egg  yolks  and  eggs  poa.  In  bain-Marie  fruit 

sa. 
Puree,  Reduced  pulp  or  pu.  of  fruit  w.  sugar.  Strained. 
Regence,  Hot.  poa.  emptied  fil.  w.  rice  and  fruit  salpi- 
con, breaded  English  style,  fried,  fruit  sa. 
Rejane,  Cold,  poa.  on  snow  egg.  cov.  w.  vanilla  cream. 

(S'ee  Anglaise   cream). 


397 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Religieuse,  Cold.  poa.  fruit  in  timbale,  cov.  Bavaroise 
w.  chocolate. 

Richelieu,  Cold  poa.  on  vanilla  rice  on  biscuit  cov.  w. 
royal  icing  sprinkled  w.  macarons,  currant  jelly 
around. 

Rissoles,  Hot  fruit  poa.  or  salpicon  in  puff  paste,  baked 
or  fried,  fruit  or  cream  sa. 

Ritz,  Cold  poa.  cov.  w.  raspberry  pu.  and  cbantilly  cream 
w.  vanilla. 

Romanoff,  Cold.  poa.  steeped  w.  curacao,  in  crust  or 
silver  timbale  cov.  w.  cbantilly  cream  w.  kummel. 

Rose  Caron,  Cherries,  poa.  in  timbale  or  crust  cov.  w. 
pineapple   pu.   w.   champagTie,   very  cold. 

Rose  Pompon,  Cold.  poa.  emptied  fil.  w.  vanilla  ice 
cream,  cov.  cbantilly  ere.  w.  raspberry  pu.  cov  w. 
veil  made  of  pink  spun  sugar. 

Royale,    Cold,   poa.    in   currant  jelly,    on   blanc   manges. 

Rubanne,  Cold,  Bavaroise  w.  divers  colors,  gar.  w.  cban- 
tilly cream,  fruit  poa.  around. 

Russe,  Fruit,  bavaroise  w.  kummel  or  arrack. 

Russel  (Lillian),  Mush  melon  half  fil.  w.  vanilla  ice 
cream  cov.  w.  raspberry  pu.  sprinkled  w.  macarons. 

Salade,  Cold,  poa.  mixed  w.  divers  liquors  and  syrup,  or 
fruit  pu. 

Short  Cake,  Genoise  layer  between  fruits  and  frangi- 
pane  cream,  cov.  whipiDed  cream  and  dec.  on  top  w. 
whip.  ere.  strawberry,  raspberry,  banana,  peach,  apri- 
cot etc. 

Souffle  Hot,  lib.  sugar  cooked  40  degrees  add  12 
ounces  pulp  of  fruit,  whip  10  whites  of  eggs  very  hard, 
in  silver  timbale,  baked,  glazed,  or  cold  bava.roise 
style  w.  whipped  cream  w.  flawor  according  to  fruit. 

Sultane,  Cold.  poa.  on  pistachio  ice  cream,  cov.  w.  white 

'  veil  made  of  spun  sugar. 

Suedoise,  Basket  made  of  emptied  orange,  mandarine  or 
grape  fruit,  fil.  same  ice  cream  or  divers  ice  cream 
cov.  w.  meringue.  Baked  quickly. 

Surprise,  Emptied  fruit  fil,  salpicon,  ice  cream  or  bava- 
roise, according  to  article.  (See  Suedoise  or  omelette). 

Tartelette,  Cold,  poa.  all  fruits  in  tartalette  cov.  with 
fruit  syrup,  according  to  article. 

—  398  — 


ENTREMETS    MISCELLANEOUS 


Tim  bale,  Hot  or  cold,  paste  or  silver,  fil.  w.  fruit  com- 
pote or  salpicon  w.  liquors. 

Tivoli,  Cold  in  mould  surrounded  w.  kirsch  jelly,  fil. 
w.  bavaroise  w.  fruit,  kirsch  jelly  around. 

Turban,  Hot  or  cold.  Border  mould  w.  bavaroise  or 
jelly  of  fruit,  center  fil.  w.  fruit,  divers  styles. 

Valenciennes,  Hot,  crust  savarin  paste  emptied  and  dec. 
fil.  w.  poa.  fruits  or  salpiCon  w.  kirsch. 

Vanilla,  Hot,  in  crust  fil.  w.  fruits  salpicon  w.  preser- 
ved chestnuts  and  cherry  fruit  sa  w.  rhum. 

Vin,  Wine  ,all  fruits  poa.  w.  wine  thi.  w.  white,  red, 
champagne,  port  etc. 

Virginie  Cold.  poa.  emptied  fil.  w.  bavaroise  w.  fruit 
according  to  article. 

Wilhemine,  Cold,  poa  steeped  kirsch  and  orange  juice, 
in  crust  or  sliver  timbale,  cov.  w.  chantilly  cream  w. 
curacao,  cov.  w.   spun  sugar. 

W.  Wilson,  Cold  peach  poa.  on  banana  ice  cream  cov. 
chantilly  cream  w.  orange  water  , studded  w.  golden 
leaves. 

Zelma  Kuntz,  Cold,  poa.  in  silver  timbale,  cov.  w.  rasp- 
berry pu.  w.  chantilly  cream  sprinkled  w.  praline. 

ENTREMETS     MISCELLANEOUS 

(Entremets   Divers) 
Abbreviations  (head  sweet  dishes) 
Bavaroise 

Bavaroise,  Composition  1  lb.  sugar,  beat  well  16  egg 
yolks,  1  qt.  milk,  vanilla,  %  ounes  gelatine,  cook 
without  boiling,  strained  stir  when  cold,  add  1  qt. 
whipped  cream,  4  ounces  sugar,  flavor  with  fruit, 
add  1^  ounce  more  gelatine  and  5  gills  fruit.  Bava- 
roise w.  syrup,  5  gills  pu,  of  fruits.  5  gills  syrup,  30 
degrees,   juice   of  3   lemons,   1   ounce   gelatine,   i^    qt. 

whipped  cream,  put  in  mould. 

Beignets  or  Fritters 

Beignet  de  Fruit  or  fritters.  Comp.:  Steeped  in  liquor 
and  sugar,  dipped  in  frying  batter,  fried,  glazed  w. 
sugar.  All  fruit  fritters  same   style. 

—  399  — 


GANCBL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Beignets  de  Creme  or  Cream  Fritters.  Comp.  1  lb. 
flour,  y2  lb.  sugar,  3  ounces  butter,  salt,  24  egg 
yolks,  8  eggs  2  qt,  milk,  cooked,  flavor,  cooled  on 
flat  pan.  Cut,  breaded  English  style,  fried,  sauce, 
chocolate,  fruit,  etc. 

Beignet  Souffle  or  Cream  Puff  paste.  Comp.:  1  qt.  water 
V^  ounce  sugar,  14^  ounce  salt,  I14  lb.  flour,  6  ounces 
butter.  Cooked  dry,  add  16  eggs,  beat  w.  one 
egg,  at  time  make  nut  size,  cook  in  hot  grease.  Cook- 
ed slowly,  Surprise,  fill  w.  jam  or  divers  cream. 

Beignets  Viennois  or  Vienna  Fritters.  Comp.:  1  lb.  flour 
6  ounces  butter,  i/^  ounce  yeast,  6  eggs,  V2  ounce  salt, 
%  ounce  sugar,  same  brioche  rolled,  gar.  fruit  or  jaiii 
cover.  Let  rise.  Hot  grease.  Powderer  sugar,  cold 
dipped  in  syrup,  flavor. 

Blanc    Manger 

Blanc  Manger,  Comp.:   1  lb.  peeled  and  pounded  comp. 

almonds.  1  quart  water,  and  1  gill  of  cream.     Strain  in 

cloth   ,add   8   gills,  almond  milk,   1   lb   sugar,  1   ounce 
gelatine  dissolved,  flavor  with  fruit  or  liquors,  kirsch 

kummel,   rhuni,   chartreuse,  etc.. 
Rubanne,  Comp:    Layer  w.  divers   colors,  divers  styles. 

(See  Bavaroise). 

Charlotte 

All  moulds  surrounded  w.  divers  biscuits  or  sliced 
hread  according  to  name.  Arlequine  fil.  w.  divers  comp. 
bavaroise.  Carmen  surrounded  w.  gaufrette,  fil.  bava- 
roise w.  fruit,  layer  w.  tomato  marmalade  and  sweet- 
peppers,  3  ounces  preserved  ginger  in  dice.  Chantilly, 
surrounded  w.  gaufrette  whipped  cream,  sugar  and  va- 
nilla, dec.  pink  on  top.  Montreuil  biscuit,  fil.  w.  ba- 
varoise w.  fresh  sliced  peaches  or  V2  Poa.  Opera  sur- 
rounded w.  palmer  biscuits .  fil.  w.  bavaroise  comp. 
vanilla,  chestnut  puree  w.  fruit  salp.  steeped  maras- 
chino. Plombiere  biscuit  fil.  ice  cream  plombiere.  Re- 
naissance surrounded  w.  genoise  pink  and  white,  fil.  w. 
bavaroise  comp.  w.  vanilla  w.  fresh  fruit  salpicon 
steeped  w.  kirsch,  when  taken  out  of  mould  add  one 
slice  of  pineapple  dec.  w.  fruit  on  top.     Russe  biscuit 

—  400  — 


ENTREMETS    MISCELLANEOUS 


lady   fingers   fil.    w.   ordinary   bavaroise.      Same   fil.    w. 
cream,   fruit,   chocolate,   orange,  etc. 

Cream 

Divers  cream,  Custard  1  qt.  hot  milk,  6  ounces  sugar, 
5  eggs  and  5  yolks,  flavor,  put  in  small  earthen  pot. 
haked,  Cafe,  Chocolate,  Vanilla,  etc.  Caramel,  mould 
lined  w.  blond  caramel.  Creole  bavaroise  w.  vanilla 
rice,  add  pineapple  in  dice  and  whipped  cream.  Flo- 
rentine caramel  w.  burned  almonds,  whipped  cream 
around,  sprinkled  pistachio.  Fruit,  Chantilly  cream, 
add  fruit  or  puree.  Opera,  caramel  in  border,  center 
fill.  Chantilly  cream,  sprinkled  violets,  strawberries 
around,  cov.  spoon  sugar.  Renverse,  unmold  divers 
style,  cafe,  chocolate,  1  qt.  milk,  10  ounces  sugar,  4 
eggs,  8  yolks,  unmold  after  cold.  Viennois,  mixed  w. 
caramel  syrup  and  frangipane  made  w.  i/^  flour,  II/2 
qt.  milk,  4  eggs,  8  yolks,  4  ounces  butter,  vanilla.  Chan- 
tilly all  fresh  cream  whipped,  add  sugar  and  flavor. 

Crepes 

Crepes,  Pancake  (French  term  for  plain  pancake). 
Comp.  1  lb.  flour,  5  ounces  sugar,  salt,  12  eggs,  IV2 
qt.  milk,  3  ounces  butter,  flavor,  put  in  small  pan  w. 
butter,   turn   over. 

Couvent  (du)  Comp.  in  pan  sprinkled  w.  pears,  cut  in 
dice. 

Cancel    (See  "Reve"). 

Georgette,  Comp.  in  pan  sprinkled  w.  pineapple  in 
dice. 

Gil-Bias,  Comp.  when  cooked,  spread  w.  butter,  work 
well  w.  powdered  sugar,  fine  champagne  brandy, 
hazelnut   butter   and   lemon   juice,   folded   in   four. 

Hortensia,  Comp.  gar.  w.  sweet  cottage  cheese  w. 
orange  juice,  cov.  same,   baked. 

Monte  Cristo,  Comp.  gar.  w.  jam,  rolled  cov.  w.  whip- 
cream  mixed  chopped  walnuts,  sprinkled  w.  pista- 
chio, powdered  sugar,  glazed. 

Normande,  Comp.  in  pan  w.   apples   sliced  very  thin. 

Pannequets,  French  term  for  crepes,  filled  divers  jam 
or  cooked  cream,  powdered  sugar  and  glazed. 

—  401  — 


GAN  GEL'S      GU  LI  NARY      ENGYGLOPEDIA 

Parisienne,  Gomp.  add  3  gills  cream,  orgeat  sj^rup  and 
crushed  macaroons. 

Paysanne,  Gountry  style,  comp.  w.  orange  water,  plain. 

Russe,  Russian  comp.  mixed  w.  crumbs  of  lady  fingers 
steeped  w.  kiimmel  and  brandy. 

Suzette,  Comp.  add  curagao  and  mandarin  orange,  but- 
tered same  "Gil-Bias,"  folded  in  four. 

Reve  (un),  Gomp.  spread  w.  almond  butter  rolled,  put  in 
chafing  dish,  cov.  w.  syrup  made  w.  reduced  orange 
juice,  add  sweet  butter,  and  chartruese. 

Souffle  (en),  Grepes  cov.  apricot  jam  in  silver  timbalft 
one  layer  pancake  and  one  of  souffle  composition, 
baked  15  to  25  minutes  according  to  size,  glazed. 

Surprise,   Gov.   w.   meringue,   divers   style. 

Croquettes 

Fruit,  Gomp.  fruit  salpicon  or  pur.  thi.  w.  frangipane 
cream,   breaded   English   style,   fried,   divers   sauce. 

Marrons,  Ghestnut  puree,  one  chestnut  in  center, 
puree  thi.  w.  5  eggs  yolks  and  l^/^  ounces  butter, 
per  pound,  breaded  English  style,  fried,  divers  sauce. 

Riz  (Rice),  Scalded,  drained,  add  sugar,  milk,  vanilla, 
salt,  cooked  25  minutes,  thi.  w.  egg  yolks,  breaded 
English  style,  fried.  Divers  sauces,  same  tapioca, 
farina,  vermicelli,  macaroni,  etc.  raisins,  candies  and 
fruit   optional. 

Croutes    (Grust) 

Slices  of  divers  biscuits  or  bread  powdered  w.  sugar, 
browned  in  oven,  dressed  crown  shape,  fruit  between 
or  on  top  according  to  name.  Pineapple,  peaches, 
strawberries,  Lyonnaise,  etc.  syrup  or  flavor  accord- 
ing to  fruit. 

Jelly   (See  Gelees  article) 

Ripe  fruits,  currants,  raspberries  or  strawberries  ac- 
cording  to   desire,   strained  w.   1   gill   water,   per  1   lb. 

—  402  — 


ENTREMETS    MISCELLANEOUS 


filtered,  1  qt.  juice,  12  ounces  sugar,  1  ounce  gelatine 
or  more,  for  apricots,  peaches,  prunes,  etc.  For  oran- 
ges, madarin,  lemons  w.  zest  of  peel.  Rubanne,  divers 
colors. 


ji  iyiijiui-yf:aii 


Mould    for    Fruit   Jelly 


Macedoine    (Mixed  Fruits) 
Fresh   mixed   fruits,   w.   wine   or   liquors,    cooked   sal- 
picon   for  garnishings   and   salads,   etc.   or   divers   com- 
pote  according  to  name. 

Mont   Blanc 

Whipped  cream  w.  flavoring  extract  to  imitate  moun- 
tain gar.  with  fruit,  rolled  in  divers  colored  sugar  or 
bordered  chestnut  puree,  strained,  made  in  vermicelli 
shape. 

CEufs  a   la   Neige   (Snow  Eggs) 

Whipped  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  powdered 
nugar,  poached  on  vanilla  milk,  turn  when  cooked, 
drained,  cov.  w,  cream  sa.  (See  Sa.  entremets)  in 
mould  same  Bavaroise.  Floating  Island  on  slice  bis- 
cuit cov.  sa.  or  whipped  cream  sprinkled  w.  pistachio. 
Eeligieuse,  Nun  style  covered  w.  spoon  sugar. 

Omelettes 

For  jam  omelette  use  3  eggs  per  person,  salt,  sugar, 
bsat,  rolled,  gar.  inside  w.  jam  or  jelly,  powder  w. 
siigar,  glazd  w.  red  hot  iron,  sprinkle  w,  povvdered  sugar, 
pour  liquor  over,  burn.  Soufflees  i/^  lb.  powdered 
sugar,   work  well  w.   3  egg  yolks  15  minutes,  whip  10 

—  403  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

whites  very  hard  mixed  and  dressed  on  oven  dish  dec. 
baked  according  to  size  10  to  20  min.,  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  orange  liquors,  put  little  fecula  if  not  served 
inxmediately.  Surprise  or  Alaska,  ice  cream  on  bis- 
cuit, cov.  and  dec.  w.  comp.  souffle  omelet,  baked 
quickly,  divers  styles.  Creole  ice  cream,  pineapple, 
Jamaique  ice  cream  w.  rum,  Elizabeth  vanilla  ice 
cream  w.  candied  violets,  cov.  w.  spoon  sugar,  Moka 
cafe  ice  cream,  Islandaise  w.  dry  cornucopia  biscuit  in 
center,  fill,  last  minute  w.  rum  or  brandy,  burn  on 
table,   divers   styles.        Puddings 

Amandes,   Comp.   almonds,    3   ounces   butter,     3    ounces 
sugar,    3    ounces   flour,    3   gills    of   almond    milk,   thi. 
w.  5  egg  yolks,  5  whipped  whites  of  eggs  very  stift 
in   mould  sprinkled  almonds,  sabayon  w.  orgeat. 
Americain,  Comp.  2  ounces  fresh  bread  crumbs,  3  oun- 
ces brown  sugar,  3  ounces  flour,  2  ounces  beef  mar- 
row, 2  ounces  beef  fat,  3  egg  yolks,  1  egg,  3  ounces 
candied    fruit   in   dice,    orange   and   lemon   peel,   rum 
or  brandy,  in  mould,  cooked  in  bain-marie  or  steam, 
sabayon  rum  or  hard  sauce  w.  rum. 
Anglais    (English   style)      Comp.   2   ounces   butter,     2^^ 
ounces  sugar,     4  ounces  chopped  almonds,     1  egg,  1 
yolk,  1/^  gill  cream,  salt,  orange  water,  in  dish,  baked, 
or  roly  pudding   (see  Pudding  roule). 
Bohemienne,   Cold,   small  pancake  fil.   w.   candied   fruit 
salpicon,      thi.    marmalade   in     border   mould    fill.   w. 
custard   comp.   unmould,   cold,   sabayon   sauce. 
Bresilien,   Comp.  tapioca,  in  mould  lined  w.   caramel. 
Cabinet,   Same  comp.   for  cream,  mould   lined   lady  fin- 
gers or  layer,  w.  fruit  salpicon,  baked  in  bain-marie, 
divers  sauce. 
Creme,  Cream  comp.  1  qt.  hot  milk,  10  ounces  sugar,  4 
eggs,   8  yolks,  vanilla,  whipped,  in  mould,   cooked  in 
bain-marie,  50  min.  per  quart,  same  used  for  custard 
divers  sauces,  flavor. 
Custard,  Comp.  same  Cream  pudding. 
Diplomate,  In  cylindric  niiould  dec.  w.  candied  fruit  fill 
biscuit  dipped     w.  kirsch,     raisins  and     layer  Bava- 
roise   comp.   w.  vanilla,     unmould     gar.   around  with 
fruit   compote   panaches,   sabayon   sa.   w.   champagne. 

—  404  — 


ENTREMETS    MISCELLANEOUS 


Ecossais,  Comp.  French  bread  pudding  (Pain  a  la  Fran- 
gaise)  add  fresh  fruit  in  season  5  ounces  per  quart, 
raspberries  w.  currant  sa. 

Indienne,  Comp.  pudding  souffle,  add  2  ounces  of  gin- 
ger candies  in  dice,  cream  sa.  w.  ginger. 

Malakoff,  Comp.  light  Bavaroise  w.  double  cream  and 
fruit  puree,  biscuits  between  sabayon  sa. 

Mousseline,  Comp.  i/^  lb.  butter,  %  lb.  sugar,  wont 
well  20  egg  yolks,  use  1  yolk  at  a  time,  cook  without 
boiling,  mixed  w.  14  whipped  whites  in  mould  fill, 
half,  poached  in  bain-marie  30  minutes,  sabayon  or 
fruit  sa. 

Nesseirode,  Comp.  See  Creme  Anglaise  sa.  add  chest- 
nut puree  w.  candied  fruit  salpicon,  whipped  cream 
in  proportion  in  mould  and  close  w.  butter  around, 
frozen,  unmould,  gar.  w.  chestnuts  dipped  in  choco- 
late. 

Pain  a  I'Anglaise,  Bread  English  style,  buttered,  sugar, 
w.  currants,  same  comp.  cream  custard  or  dish,  baked. 

Pain  a  la  Francaise,  Bread  French  style,  10  ounces 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  dipped  in  milk,  i/^  lb.  sugar,  4 
eggs,  strained,  add  4  whipped  whites  in  mould, 
poach  in  bain-marie,  sabayons  sa. 

Pain  a  i'Allemande.  Bread  German  style,  12  ounces 
bread  crumbs,  dipped  in  wine  cinnamon,  6  ounces 
brown  sugar,  strained  4  eggs,  6  yolks,  5  ounces  melted 
butter,   4  whippd  whites  poached,  fruit  sa. 

Plum  Pudding,  Comp.  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs, 
1^  lb.  beef  suet,  V2  lb.  flour,  %  lb.  apples,  V2  lb.  ai- 
together  of  malaga  raisins  and  currants,  2  ounces  al- 
together of  preserved  fruit,  orange  lemon  and  citron 
cut  in  dice,  2  ounces  ginger,  4  ounces  chopped  al- 
monds, 1^  lb.  brown  sugar,  juice  and  chopped  peel, 
1/^  lemon,  II/2  ounces  spices,  3  eggs,  1"V2  giU  of  rum, 
put  in  bag,  cook  in  boiling  water  4  to  5  hours, 
serve  w.  sauce  or  liquor  or  burned.  Mince  meat 
same  comp.  no  flour,  add  cooked  beef,  brandy  and 
sherry,  put  in  jar  for  one  month.  Use  for  pie  or 
tartelet. 

Riz,  Rice  or  cottage  English  style.  Rice  scalded, 
cooked  w.  milk,  sugar  and  sweet  butter  in  dish,  cook 


405  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

soft,  baked,  or  French  (see  Riz  Croquette)  add  15 
whipped  whites  of  eggs  per  pound  of  rice,  in  mould, 
baked.  Divers  sauces. 

Roule  (Roily  Pudding)  Comp  .  1  lb.  flour,  12  ounces 
chopped  beef  suet,  IV2  ounces  sugar,  water,  cover 
roll  w.  jam,  roll  in  cloth,  tie,  cooked  in  steam  or 
boiling  water  according  to  size,  fruit  sauce. 

Saxon,    Comp.    souffle    w,    rye    bread    crumbs    mixed. 

Souffle  (Puff)  Comp.  3  ounces  butter,  3  ounces  sugar 
work,  3  ounces  flour,  3  gills  milk,  salt,  cooked  same 
panade,  5  eggs,  5  whipped  whites  of  eggs  in  mould. 
Baked  in  bain-marie,  sabayon  sa. 

Tapioca,  Semoula,  vermicelli,  comp.  i/^  lb.,  1  qt.  milk, 
4  ounces  sugar,  salt  3  ounces  butter,  cook  25  to  30 
min.  thi.  6  egg  yolks,  4  whipped  whites,  baked  in 
bain-marie,  sabayon.  fruit  sa.  etc. 

Rissoles 

Salpicon  of  fruit,   cream,  etc.  on  round  of  thin  puff, 
paste   and   fold,     fried   or   baked,     sprinkled   w.    sugar, 
divers  styles. 

Souffles 

A  la  Creme,  Creme  comp.  1  gill  milk,  1  ounce  sugar, 
%  ounce  flour  or  fecula,  14  ounce  butter,  cooked  thi. 
3  egg  yolks,  add  3  whipped  whites,  put  in  silver  casse- 
role, buttered  and  baked  in  moderate  oven,  accord- 
ing to  size. 

Aux  Fruits,  Fruit  comp.  1  lb.  sugar,  cooked  40  degrees, 
add  12  ounces  puree  of  fruit.  Mix  10  whipped  whites, 
fill  silver  timbale,  cook  in  moderate  oven. 

Amandes,  Comp.  cream  souffle  w.  almond  milk,  add  2 
ounces  chopped  almonds  browned. 

Avelines,  Hazelnuts,  comp.  cream  souffle  w.  2  ounces 
chopped  hazelnuts  browned  in  milk. 

Camargo,  Comp.  cream  w.  mandarin  and  hazelnuts 
layer  of  biscuit  dipped  in  curacao. 

Chocolat,  Cream  comp.  w.  chocolate. 

Curagao,   Comp.   cream,  add  orange  peel  and   caragao. 

Elizabeth,  Comp.  cream  w.  crushed  macaroons  dipped 
in  maraschino  and  kirsch,  add  i/^  ounce  candied  vio- 
lets, GOV.  spun  sugar. 

—  406  — 


ENTREMETS    MISCELLANEOUS 


Javanais,  Comp.  cream  w.  tea  w.  IV2  ounces  chopped 
pistachio  per  gill  of  tea. 

Liqueur,  Comp.  cream  or  fruit  w.  liquor  you  desire. 

Lucullus,  Comp.  cream  cooked  in  center  of  savarin  dip- 
ped w.  kirsch. 

Palmyre,  Comp,  cream  w.  layer  of  lady  fingers  dipped 
in  anisette. 

Praline,  Comp.  cream  w.  biirned  almonds,  chopped  al- 
monds, sprinkled  on  top. 

Rothschild,  Comp.  cream  w.  fruit  salpicon  steeped  w. 
eau-de-vie-dantzig,  when  cooked  garnish  with  straw- 
berries around  or  preserved  cherries. 

Royale,  Comp.  cream,  add  biscuit  dipped  in  kirsch  and 
salpicon  of  fruit. 

Van i Me,  Comp.  cream  w.  vanilla. 

Violettes,  Comp.  cream  ,add  candied  violets,  when  cook- 
ed border  with  violets. 

Yvette,  Comp.   cream  w.   creme  Yvette. 

Subrlcs 

Composition,  4  ounces  farina,  V2  qt.  milk,  3  ounces 
butter,  mix  well,  cook  slowly  in  oven,  25  minutes,  thi. 
w.  6  egg  yolks,  put  in  pan  i/^  inch  thi.  when  cold,  cut 
ring  w.  hole  in  center  fried  in  butter,  fil.  center  "Vr. 
curant  jelly. 

Timbales 

All  timbales  made  of  divers  paste,  filled  and  gar- 
nished according  to  article.  D'Aremberg,  brioche  paste, 
fil.  pears,  apricots  and  marmalade  unmould,  fruit  sa. 
Bourdaloue  dry  paste,  add  4  ounces  chopped  admonds, 
filled  compote  of  fruit  covered.  Baked,  unmould,  apri- 
cot, Marie-Louise  timbale  in  genoise  emptied,  filled  sal- 
picon, peach  and  cherries,  peaches,  cherries,  pineapple 
on  top,  Montreuil  emptied  biscuit  gar.  w.  peaches,  dec. 
w.  point  of  pink  meringue,  peach  sa.  w.  kirsch.  Mont- 
morency timbale,  brioche  paste,  emptied,  tfl.  w.  cherry 
compote,  syrup  w.  kirsch.  Parisienne  timbale  brioche 
paste  emptied  fil.  w.  fruits  cut  in  quarters,  cooked  syrup 
w.  vanilla,  pineapple,  raisins,  almonds,  angelica  thi.  w. 
apricot  puree  w.  kirsch.  (Note.)  All  exterior  of  tim- 
bales should  be  decorated. 

—  407  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


ICE   CREAM    (Glace) 

There  are  a  great  many  different  kinds  of  ice  cream»» 
and  with  the  machines  of  today,  anybody  can  make  it. 
Ice  creams  can  be  eaten  without  any  danger  if  they 
are  prepared  with  natural  substances,  but  are  dangerous 
if  any  artificial  coloring  is  put  in. 


Ice    Cream    Machine 

(How  to  make  Ice  Cream) 

When  the  composition  of  the  ice  cream  is  ready,  put 
in  the  freezing  case  of  the  machine  and  close  tight,  fill 
the  pail  with  chopped  ice  and  add  rock  salt.  Ice  cream 
to  be  good  should  be  smooth  and  soft.  Be  careful  when 
opening  the  freezer  to  wipe  the  cover,  so  no  ice  nor 
salt  will  fall  in.  Follow  well  the  instructions  to  obtain 
good  results.  (Note).  Syrups  should  be  from  16  to  22 
degrees  of  density  according  to  kind  of  fruit  or  liquor 
used. 

Ice    Cream,    Divers    Compositions 

Americain,  Comp.  Horton's  style,  4  qts.  condensed  milk, 
4  ounces  gelatine  (dissolved),  7  lbs.  sugar,  divers 
essence  and  colors.  Do  not  use  frozen  eggs,  moula 
in  form  of  brick. 

—  408  — 


ICE    CREAM 


Amandes,  "Almonds"  Pounded  butnd  almonds,  w.  vanilla 
ice  cream  or  divers  ice  cream  compositions. 

Angiaise  "French  term  for  ice  cream  composition". 
Comp. :  1  qt.  milk,  1  lb.  sugar  beat  w.  16  egg  yolks, 
cook  without  boiling,  vanilla.     Also  for  cream  sauce. 

Biscuit,  Comp.:  12  egg  yolks,  beat  in  bain  Marie,  when 
cooked  whip  until  cold,  add  i/^  lb.  Italienne  meringu<» 
(8  whipped  whites  per  1  lb.  sugar)  i/^  qt.  whipped 
cream,   flavor   according  to   name. 

Bombes,  Comp.:  32  yolks,  1  qt.  syrup,  28  de- 
grees cold,  cook  without  boiling,  whip  until  cold,  add 
iy2  qt.  whipped  cream,  flavor,  fill  mould  w.  comp. 
make  bomb  shape,  lined,  divers  varieties  according 
to  name. 

Commercial,  Comp.  2  qts.  milk,  2  qts.  cream  1%  lbs. 
sugar,  3  ounces  cornstarch  or  arrow  root,  4  eggs 
cooked,  if  you  do  not  use  eggs  add  2  ounces  gelatine 
dissolved,  18  degrees  frozen,  in  machine. 

Creme  "French  Ice  Cream".  Comp.:  10  ounces  sugar, 
beaten  w.  10  egg  yolks,  1  qt.  boiling  milk  w.  vanilla, 
cook  without  boiling,  stir  until  cold,  to  make  it  mor«* 
rich,  add  sugar  and  yolks.  Divers  styles  w.  almonds, 
cafe,  chocolate,  pistachio,  etc.,  according  to  article, 
frozen  in  machine. 

Creme  for  Mousse,  Comp.:  syrup  35  degrees  cold,  flavor, 
liquor  or  puree  of  fruit,  add  double  whipped  cream, 
very  hard  in  mould  frozen. 

Creme  for  Mousse  Angiaise,  Comp.:  i^  qt.  milk,  16  egg 
yolks,  1  lb.  sugar,  cook  without  boiling,  add  V2  qt. 
fresh  cream  and  %  ounce  adraganth  gum  dissolved, 
5  gills  of  puree  of  fruit  whipped  on  ice  in  mould  and 
frozen  3  hours  for  apricots,  anisette,  cafe,  chocolate, 
strawberries  ,or  liquors,  kirsch,  rhum,  orange,  rose, 
violet,  vanilla  etc. 

Delmonico,  Comp.:  1  gallon  cream,  25  egg  yolks,  2  lbs. 
sugar,  vanilla,  cook  without  boiling,  frozen  in  ma- 
chine  creamed. 

Frangaise,  French  style  (See  French  Ice  Cream,  Del- 
monico or  Angiaise). 


409 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Florentine,  Comp.  1  qt.  com.p.  parfait,  cafe  w.  infusioai 
2  cloves,  2  coriande'r  seeds,  1  stick  cinnamon  in  glass 
of  kirsch,  1  glass  syrup  32  degrees,  mould  freeze  2 
hours.     (See  Parfait  Comp.) 

Fruits  Water  Ice.  Comp.:  All  ice  Italian  style,  made  w, 
syrup  18  to  22  degrees,  according  to  fruit,  add  lemon 
juice  or  orange  apricot  18  to  19  degrees, 
pineapple  18  to  20  degrees,  bananas  20  to  21  deg. 
cherries  21  deg.  lemon  or  orange  22  deg.  strawberries 
16  to  18  degrees,  madarine  21  deg.,  melon  22  deg., 
peaches  18  to  19  deg.,  pears  22  deg.,  prunes  20  deg., 
raisins  20  deg..  violets  or  rose  i/^  lb.,  petals  infusea 
10  minutes  w.  8  gills  boiling  syrup,  20  to  21  deg. 
frozen. 

Granites,  Comp.  syrup  w.   fruit  juice  only  14  deg. 

Itaiienne,  Comp.  same  fruit  water  ice. 

Liqueurs,  Comp.  syrup,  18  to  22  deg.  Add  liquor  and 
lemon  juice. 

Marquise,  Comp.  sorbet  17  deg.  w.  strawberries,  pine- 
apple, kirsch,  add  whipped  cream  very  hard. 

Mousse,  Fruits  comp.  syrup,  35  deg.  cold,  flavor,  add 
liquor  or  puree  of  fruit,  double  whipped  cream  very 
hard,  frozen  in  mold. 

New-York,  Comp.  2  qts.  milk,  2  gills  cream  1%  lb. 
sugar,  16  egg  yolks,  vanilla,  cook  without  boiling,  18 
degrees. 

Norvegienne,  Comp.  3  gills  vanilla  syrup  32  deg.,  14  qt. 
fresh  cream,  2  whites  of  egg  beaten  w.  milk,  mixed 
and  strained,  frozen  raw,  half  frozen,  add  1  glass  ma- 
raschino. 

Parfait,  Comp.  32  egg  yolks,  1  qt.  syrup  28  deg.  cold, 
cooked  same  cream,  strained,  whipped  on  ice  until 
cold,  add  1  gill  rum  or  brandy  in  special  parfait 
mould,  freeze  2  hours.  Parfait  is  made  only  w.  cafe, 
new  style  w.  vanilla,  chocolate,  strawberries,  rasp- 
berries, etc.  add  whipped  cream  according  to  quantity. 

Philadelphia,  Comp.  1  gallon  cream  II/2  lbs.  sugar,  4 
eggs  mixed  and  frozen,  19  deg.  w.  pineapple,  18  to  20 
deg.   banana,   20  deg.   chocolate,   praline,  vanilla,   etc. 

—  410  — 


ICE    CREAM 


Plombiere,  Comp.  divers  ice  cream  w.  salpicon  of  fruit 
Water  ice,  same. 

Praline  see  Amandes,   or  pounded  praline. 

Pudding,  Comp.  cream,  French  ice  cream  (Anglaise) 
Castries  mould  lined  w.  vanilla  ice  cream,  fil.  bomb 
comp.  and  biscuits  dipped  w.  anisette,  layer  w.  manda- 
rine, ice  cream,  covered,  freeze  2  hours  unmould 
sprinkle  red  praline,  mandarine  syrup  frozen  separ- 
ately. Marie  Rose  mould,  bottom  rolled  w.  gaufrettt*. 
filled  w.  strawberry  mousse  center  fil.  bombe  comp. 
vanilla  and  praline,  close,  freeze  2  hours,  chocolate 
sauce  served  separately.  Miramar  mould  fil.  biscuit 
dipped  in  chartreuse,  layer  w.  sliced  pineapple  and 
mandarine  quarter  fil.  w.  bombe  comp.  and  pome- 
granate w.  kirsch  closed,  frozen  2  hours.  Vanilla, 
syrup,  Nessebrode  (S'ee  Entrements),  Seymour,  mould 
lined  w.  sliced  brioche  dipped  in  cream  w.  kirsch, 
sliced  peaches  pears  and  Bar-le-Duc  currants,  alter- 
nated w.  bombe  comp.  in  color  of  pink,  close  freeze 
2  hours. 


Fancy    Sugar    Flower    for    Punch    or    Sherbet 

Punch,  Comp.  syrup  22  deg.  add  champagne  or  white 
wine  brought  to  17  deg.  lemon  juice  and  2  oranges 
frozen  hard,  add  one  quarter  of  volume  of  Italienne* 
meringue  and  1  gill  of  rum. 

Sorbets,  syrup  15  degrees  liquor  and  fruit  juice  only, 
frozen  add  one  quarter  of  volume  Italienne  meringue 
or  whipped  cream,mixed  lightly  the  sorbet  w.  liquor. 

—  411  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bonanza  orange,  lemon,  holland  gin.  Cardinal,  port, 
orange,  cognac,  colored  pink.  Frozen  egg-nog,  va- 
nilla, rum,  brandy,  grated  nutmeg  on  top.  Imperial, 
lemon,  champagne  maraschino  arrack  pineapple  in 
dice.  Lalla  rookh  vanilla,  rum,  sherry.  Milk  cream, 
sugar,  same  granite  w.  rum,  brandy,  nut-meg  on  top. 
Newport,  cherries,  add  kirsch  and  sherry,  Regency 
tea,  rum  and  orange  water.  Russe,  green  tea,  lemon 
juice,  curacao  and  vodka. 

Spoons,  Comp.  syrup  20  degrees,  add  Itaiienne  meringue 
double  of  sorbet  w.  white  wine,  champagne  etc.  very 
light  and  frothy,  generally  w.  fruit  in  glass,  hot,  same 
sabayon  w.  liquor  and  white  of  eggs  beaten  quickly. 

Souffles,  Comp.  mousse  or  10  whipped  eggs,  add  1  ID. 
sugar  cooked,  the  blow,  37  deg.  cold,  flavor,  add  ^-^  qt. 
cream,  in  case  or  timbale  fil.  w.  comp.  one  inch  high, 
surrounded   w.   paper  in  box. 

Standard,  Comp.  1  gallon  cream,  1%  lbs.  sugar,  vanilla 
frozen.  Note. — Do  not  work  too  much,  as  it  will  turn 
to  butter. 

Biscuits  Glaces 

Note. — Comp.  biscuit;  serve  in  fancy  paper  cases,  in 
small  bricks  "surprise"  cabbage  or  lettuce,  etc.  (See 
Biscuit,  Comp.  ice  cream). 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Apr. — apricot.  Bot. — bottom.  Bu  Aim. — Burnt  almonds. 
Choc. — chocolate.  'Gov.— covered.  Comp. — composihtion. 
Dec. — decorated.  Gar.  w. — garnished  with.  Li. — lined. 
Liq. — liquor.  Pine. — pineapple.  Pist. — pistachio.  Rasp. — 
raspberry.  Sa. — sauce.  Straw. — ^strawberry.  Van. — vanilla 
w. —  with. 

Benedictine.  Bottom  straw,  layer  of  biscuit  soaked  in 
benedictine  in  center,  and  candied  violets  on  top. 

Excelsior,  Bot.  van.  lady  fingers  dipped  in  maraschino, 
cov.  w.  rasp,  lemon  and  pistachio 

Mai  re,  Layer  of  van.  ice  cream  between  two  wafers 
maire,  in  cases. 

IVlarquise,  Bot.  kirsch  and  straw.,  double  layer. 

—  412  — 


ICE   CREAM 


Mont  Blanc,  Bot.  flavored  w.  rum,  center  chestnuts,  top 

van.  w.  bu.  aim. 
Napolitaine,    Bot.    van.    center    straw,    top    van.    w.    bu. 

aim. 
Princesse,    Comp.    bu.-alm.    and    shredded    aim.    around 

dec.  w.  mandarine  and  van. 
Sigurd,  Bot,   straw,  top  pistachio,  sliced  biscuit,   cut  in 

rectangle   between  two  English  wafers  dry. 
Tortoni,   Bot.    van.    w.    apricot  jam    and    dipped    biscuit 

w.  macarons  on  top  in  cases. 

BOMB    ICE   CREAM    (Bombes   et   Glaces) 

REMARKS: — Bombs  are  formed  in  moulds,  first 
lined  with  ice  cream  or  Italian  ice,  and  then  filled  with 
bomb  composition  as  indicated;  unmold  before  serving. 
Where  the  term  "garnish  with"  (gar.  w.)  is  used,  it 
means  garnish  (fill)  with  the  Bomb  Composition  of  the 
article  named. 


Fancy   Ice   Cream,    Bomb    Shape 

Aboukir,   Li.   w.    pistachio   fil.   w.   bu.-alm.   and   chopped 

pistachio. 
Abricotine,  Li.  w.  apricot,  fil.  w.   apricots  and  layer  of 

marmalade  w.  kirsch. 
Aficaine,  Li.  w.  chocolate  fil.  w.  apricots. 
Aida,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  w.  kirsch. 
Alaska,    Ice    cream    cov.    w.    meringue,    baked    quickly. 

(See  omelet  surprises  entrements  miscellaneous). 

—  413  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

A I  ham  bra,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  w.  straw,  gar.  w.  straw  steep- 
ed in  kirsch  around. 

America,  Li.  w.  anisette  fii.  w.  pomegranate  (grenadine) 

Americaine,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  w.  mandarin,  dec.  w.  pisi. 
ice  cream. 

Andalouse,  Li.  w.  apricot  fil.  vanilla. 

Batavia,  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  straw,  w.   ginger  in  dice. 

Bombesv  All  bombs.  (See  comp.  divers  styles)  according 
to  name. 

Bourdaloue,  Li.  w.  vanilla  fil.  anisette,  candied  violets 
on  top. 

Bresilienne,  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  van.  av.  pineapple 
cut  in  dice  w.  rum. 

Camargo,  Li.  w.  cafe  fil.  vanilla. 

Carmagnole,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  champagne  and  cherries. 

Cardinal,  Li.  w.  currants  and  raspberries,  flavor,  fil.  w. 
vanilla  w.  bu.-alm. 

Carnot,  Li.  w.  raspberries  fil.  maraschino,  sabayon  w. 
kirsch  around. 

Ceylon,  Li.  w.  tea,  fil.  rum. 

Chateaubriand,  Li.  w.  apricot  fil.  vanilla. 

Clarence.  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  violets, 

Columbia,  Li.  kirsch,  fil.  pears  dec.  w.  cherries  around. 

Coppelia,  Li.  w.  cafe  fil.  w.  bu.-alm. 

Czarine,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  w.  kummel  dec.  w.  candied 
violets   around. 

Dame   Blanche,  Li.  w.  van.  fil,  w,  milk  of  almonds. 

Danicheff, 

Daniel  Rahot,  Li-  w.  hazelnut  layer  pistachio  fil.  w.  apri- 
cots and  peaches  cut  in  dice  steeped  w.  maraschino. 

Diable  Rose,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  kirsch  w.  cherries. 

Diplomate,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  w.  maraschino  and  fruit  sal- 
picon. 

Duchessie,  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  w.  pears  w.  kirsch. 

Fanchon,  Li.  w.  bu.  aim.  fil.  kirsch  and  candy  made  in 
shape  of  coffee  beans. 

Fedora,  Li.  w.  orange  fil.  w.  bu.-alm. 

Florentine,  Li.  w.  raspberry  fil.  w.  chantilly  cream  and 
bu.-alm. 

Formosa,,  Li.  w.  van  fil.  straw,  w.  whole  strawberries. 

Franclllon,  Li.  w.   cafe  fil.  w.  fine  champagne. 

—  414  — 


ICE    CREAM 


Frou-Frou,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  rum  w.  fruit  salpicon. 

Gismonda,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm  fil.  anisette  and  white  cur- 
rants. 

Ginger,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  w.  ginger  in  dice. 

Gladstone,  Li.  w.  ginger  fil.  w.  angelica  and  ginger  in 
dice. 

Grande   Duchesse,  Li.  w.  pears  fil.  w.  chartreuse. 

Havanaise,  Li.  w.  cafe,  fil.  van  w.  rum. 

Hilda,  Li.  w.  hazelnuts  fil.  chartreuse  and  bu.-hazelnuts. 

Hcllandaise,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  w.  curacoa. 

Jaffa,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  orange 

Japonalse,  Li.  w.  peach,  fil.  mousse,,  flavor  w.  tea. 

Jeanne  d'Arc,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  chocolate  w.  bu.-alm. 

Josephine,  Li.  w.  cafe,  fil.  w.  pistachio. 

La  Valliere,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  raspberries,  unmould 
gar.  w.   sticks  of  pulled  sugar,  mint  flavor. 

Madeleine,,  Li.  w.  almonds  fil.  van.  w.  kirsch  and  can- 
died fruit. 

Maltaise,  Li.  w.  orange  fil.  w.  chantilly  cream  w.  ma- 
deira. 

Marechaie,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  alternate  layers  of  pistachio, 
vanilla  and  orange. 

M argot,  Li.  w    almond  fil.  pistachio  dec.  van. 

Marie    Louise,  Li.   w.   raspberries,   fil.   w.   vanilla. 

Marquise,  Li.  w.  apricots  fil.  w.  champagne. 

Mascotte,  Li.  w.  peach  fil.  kirsch  cov.  spun  sugar. 

Mathilde,  Li.  w.  cafe,  fil.  w.  apricots. 

Medicis,  Li.  w.  van.  fil.  chantilly  w.  pistachio. 

Mephisto,  Divers  bombs  fil.  w.  dry  biscuit  in  center,  di- 
vers liquors  and  burnt  on  table. 

Mercedes,  Li.  w.  apricots  fil.  w.  chartreuse. 

Mignon,  Li.  w.  apricots  fil.  hazelnuts. 

Miss  Helyett,  Li.  w.  raspberries  fil  w.  vanilla. 

Miss  Maud,  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  straw  w.  ginger  In 
dice. 

Mogadon,  Li.  w.  cafe  fil.  kirsch. 

Moldave,  Li.  w.  pineapple  fil.  curacao. 

Montmorency,  Li.  w.  kirsch,  fil.  w.  cherries,  dec.  w. 
candied  half  cherries. 

Moscovite,  Li.  w.  kummel  fil.  almonds  and  candied 
fruits. 


—  415  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Mousseline,    Li.    w.    straw,    fil.    w.    chantilly    w.    straw. 

puree. 
Nabab,  li.  w.   bu.-alm.  w.   fine  champagne  and  candied 

fruits. 
Napolitaine,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  straw,  ice. 
Nelusko,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w  chocolate. 
Neron,   Li.   w.   caramel,  fil.   w.   van.   mousse   and   small 

chocolate    balls,    cov.    w.    meringue,    rum    and    bu.-al- 

monds. 
Nesselrode,  Li.  w.  vanilla  fil.  w.  chantilly  cream  mixeo 

w.  puree  of  chestnuts. 
Odette,  Li.  w.  wan.   fil.   chantilly   cream  w.   bu.-alm. 
Orientale,  Li.    w.  ginger  fil  w.  pistachio. 
Patricienne,  Li.  w.  van  fil.  w.  chocolate  w.  bu.  aim. 
Petit-Due,   Li.  w.   straw,   fil,  hazelnuts   w.  red  currants. 
Pompadour  Li.  w.  asp.  fil,  pomme-granate. 
Praline,  lin.  w.  vanilla  mix  w.  bu. -almond  or  sprinkled 

w.  pounded  pralines. 
Prophete,  Li.  w.   straw,  fil.  w.  pineapple. 
Richelieu,  Li.  w.   rum.  fil.   cafe  dec.  w.   candy  made  in 

shape  of  coffee  beans. 
Rosette,   Li.   w.   van.  fil.   chantilly   cream,   sprinkled  w. 

red  currants. 
Royale,  Li.  w.  kirsch,  fil.  chocolate  w.  bu.-alm.  praline. 
Russe,  Li.  w.  van.  fil  w.  chantilly  and  puree  of  chest- 
nuts. 
Saint-Laud,  Li.  w.  raspberries  fil.  musk  melon  w.  chan- 
tilly  cream. 
Saint-Laurent,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  cooked  skin  of  milk, 

browned,  mixed  w.  mousse  van. 
Santiago,  Li.  w.  cafe,  fil.  w.  pistachio. 
Selika,  Li.  w.  bu.alm.  fil.  w.  curacao. 
Skobeleff,   Li.   w.   vodka   fil.   w.   chantilly   and  kummel. 
Strogoff,  Li.  w.  peach  fil.  w.  champagne. 
Succes,  Li.  w.  apricot  fil.  w.  chantilly  cream  w.  kirsch 

and  apricot  in  dice. 
Sultane,    Li.    w.    chocolate,    fil.    w.    chantilly    cream    w. 

bu.-alm. 
Surprise,  Same  Alaska  or  cov.  w.  meringue  or  stuffed 

w.  surprise  according  to  name. 

—  416  — 


ICE    CREAM 


Suzanne,   Li.   w.   rum   colored   pink,   fil.   w.   van.   w.   red 

currants. 
Tortoni,  Li.  w.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  cafe  and  candy  made  in 

shape  of  coffee  beans. 
Tosca,  Li.  w.  asp.  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  pink  champagne  border 

w.  lemon  ice. 
Trocadero,  Li.  w.  orange  and  candied  orange  peel  cut  in 

dice  fil.  chantilly  cream,  candied  orange  around. 
Tutti    Fruitti,   Li.   w.    straw,    fil.    lemon   ice   in   candied 

fruit  cut  in  dice. 
Valencia,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  chantilly  and  raspberries. 
Valerien,  Li.  w.  van  and  bu.-alm.  fil.  w.  chantilly  apri- 

cut  jam  and  kirsch. 
Venitienne,    Li.    w.    half    van.    and    half    straw,    fil.    w. 

chantilly  w.  kirsch  and  maraschino. 
Victoria,  Li.  w.  straw,  fil.  w.  plombiere. 
Westp'nalienne,  Li.  w.  pumpernickel  fil.  w.  chantilly  and 

walnuts. 
Zamora,  Li.  w.  cafe  fil.  w.  curacao. 


Cup   garnis    (Divers) 

CUPS    (Coupes) 

Cups   are   ice   creams   combined  together  with  either 
chantilly  cream,  or  fruit,   served  in  crystal  glasses. 
(Abbreviation  same  as  for  for  bombs.) 

Antigny,  Fil.  w.  straw,  add  fresh  cream,  V2  peach,  va- 
nilla on  top,  cov.  w.  spun  sugar. 

Bebe,  Fil.  w.  half  pineapple,  half  raspberry  cov,  w. 
chantilly  w.  straw,  candied  violets  on  top. 

Clo-CIo,  Fil.  w.  van.  and  steeped  macaroons  w.  kirsch 
candies   chestnuts   in  center  chantilly  cream  around- 

—  417  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Dame^Blanche,  Fil.   almonds   V2   peach  turn  over  fil.  w. 

white  Bar-le-Duc   currants,   lemon  ice  around. 
Denise,  Fil.  w.  cafe,  sprinkled  w.  liquors  bonbons,  cov. 

w!  chantilly  cream. 
Edna  May,  Fil.  van.  cherry  jelly  on  top. 
Elisabeth,  Fil.  w.  preserved  cherries  in  kirsch,  cov.  w. 

chantilliy  cream. 
Emma    Calve,    Fil.    w.    van    bu.    aim.    mixed    w.    cherry 

salpicon,  cov.  w.  pu.  of  raspberries. 
Eugenie,  Fil.  w.  van.  and  glazed  chestnuts,  cov.  chantilly 

cream  sprinkled  w.  candied  violets. 
Favorite,  Fil.  w.  van.  kirsch  w.  maraschino,  border  "w. 

pineapple   ice   cream,   chantilly   ih    center    w.    straw. 

puree. 
France   Star,   Fil.  w.   raspberry  mousse,   fruit   , salpicon, 

cov.  chantilly,  border  steeped  straw,  w.  kirsch. 
Germaine,  Fil.  w.  van.  cherries  and  kirsch  cov.  w.  chest- 
nut pu.  border  chantilly  cream. 
Gressac,  Fil.  w.  van.  and  macarons,   one  half  of  peach 

turn    over    fil.    w.    currant    jelly,    border    w.    chantilly 

cream. 
Jacques,    Fil.    vertically    w.    straw,    and    lemon    candied 

fruit  or  fresh  fruit,  salpicon  w.  kirsch.    (Do  not  mis- 
take for  St.  Jacques.) 
Malmaison,  Fil.  w.  van,  peeled  muscat  grapes,   cov.   w. 

spun  sugar. 
Melba,   Fil.   w.   van.   poached   peach   w.   vanilla  on   top 

cov.   raspberries,  puree,   sprinkled  w.   macarons. 
Mexicaine,   Fil.   w.   madarine  w.   pineapple   cut   in   dice. 
Mireiile,  Fil.   w.    Yz    van.    %    currant   cov.   chantilly   and 

spun  sugar. 
Petit-Due,  Fil.   w.   vanilla    V2   peach  turned   over  fil.  w. 

Bar-le-Duc  jelly  border  w.   lemon  ice. 
Sans  Gene,  Fil  w.  van.  center  w.  currants  cov.  chantilly 

cream. 
Tutti    Frutti,   Fil.   w.   fruit   salpicon,   kirsch   and   maras- 
chino, a  layer  of  straw  and  pineapple  between,  lemon 

on  top. 
Venus,  Fil.  w.  van.   peach  in   center  cov.   w.   chantilly, 

fresh  straw,  around  on  top.    (Note).) —  There  are   a 

great  many  different  varieties  for  cups  according  to 

name  of  ice  cream  or  fruit  you  use. 
—  418  — 


ICE    CREAM 


FANCY   ICE   CREAM    (Glaces  de   Fantaisie 

A I  ham  bra,  In  mould  Madeleine  shape,  lined  van.  center 
fil.  chantilly  add  fresh  straw,  flavor  with  kernel  ol 
peach. 

Carmen,  In  fluted  mould,  3  ices  straw,  van.  cafe. 

Castries,  Mould  bomb  shape,  lined  vanilla,  alternate 
each  layer  w.  biscuit  imbibed  in  anisette,  man- 
darine and  grated  chocolate,  fil.  w.  van.  unmould, 
sprinkled  red  praline,  mandarine  syrup  served  separ- 
ately. 

Comtesse  Marie,  Special  mould,  lined  straw,  center  van. 
dec. 

Dame  Jeanne,  Mould,  Madeleine  lined  vanilla,  center, 
chantilly  w.  orange  water,  w.  bu.-alm.. 

Dora,  Mould  madeleine  lined  w.  van.  center  chantilly 
w.  kirsch  add  pineapple  in  dice,  and  Bar-le-Duc. 

Fleurette,  Square  mould,  lined  straw,  and  pineapple, 
dec.   lemon  ice. 

Francillon,  Square  mould,  lined  cafe,  fil,  w.  fine  cham- 
pagne ice  cream. 

Fromage,  All  ice  creams  in  conical  mould  shape  fluted 
with  variegated  colors  of  ice  cream  (See  Parfait 
comp.) 

Glaces,  Large  ice  cream  in  form  of  different  subjects 
also  small  form,  made  of  all  kinds  of  ice  cream,  un- 
mould, and  keep  in  special  freezing  box. 

lies  (des),  Mould  Madeleine,  lined  van.  filled  pineapple. 

Madeleine,  In  mould,  fil,  van.  add.  chantilly  cream  and 
fruit   salpicon. 

Marie- Rose,  Mould  Charlotte,  bottom  gaufrette  fil.  w. 
straw,  gar.  comp.  bomb  w.  praline,  chocolate  sa.  sepa- 
rately. 

Marie  Therese,  Mould  Madeleine,  lined  chocolate,  fil. 
cream  chantilly  w.  vanilla,  gar.  pineapple  aroud. 

Miramar,  Mould  Madeleine,  gar.  biscuit  w.  chartreuse 
alternate  w.  pineapple,  fil.  bomb  comp.  w.  pomegra 
nate. 

Meringue,   Glace  Meringue,  shell   fill,  divers  ice  cream. 

Plombiere,  Mould  Parfait  fil.  w.  divers  ice  cream  and 
fruit  salpicon,  layer  w.  apricot  marmalade. 

—  419  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


If' 


J 


Tbe    Dinner    Table 

RECEPTION    AND   TABLE    (Reception    et  table) 

The  host  and  hostess  should  be  ready  to  receive  then 
guests,  one  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  time  an- 
nounced. 

Each  guest  should  be  received  with  the  same  gra- 
cious hospitality.  The  host  and  hostees  and  the  per- 
sons invited  to  receive  with  them,  should  introduce 
the  guests.  A  few  minutes  before  dinner  an  appetizer 
should  be  served  in  the  drawing  room.  The  host 
should  offer  his  arm  to  the  lady  in  whose  honor  the 
dinner  is  given  or  to  the  elder  lady  of  the  party. 
The  hostees  then  should  take  the  arm  of  the  gentleman 
in  whose  honor  the  dinner  is  given  or  to  the  elder  gent- 
leman present.  The  host  should  not  be  seated  until 
after  all  of  the  guests.  The  names  are  written  either- 
on  a  card  or  upon  the  menu.  The  placing  of  the  guests 
at  the  table  require  particular  attention.  The  host 
should  have  at  his  right  and  left  the  two  ladies  most 
honored,  or  the  two  elder  ladies  present.  The  hostees 
should  proceed  in  the  same  manner.  The  lady  and 
gentleman  should  be  seated  alternately.     There  are  no 


—  420  — 


RECEPTION    AND    TABLE 


absolute  rules  as  to  the  luxury  of  the  service  as  it 
depends  upon  circumstances.  The  host  and  hostees 
should  do  every  thing  to  make  their  guests  feel  at 
home,  and  above  all  show  a  great  deal  of  tact. 


THE    SERVICE    (Le    Service) 

After  the  soup,  serve  a  glass  of  wine,  white  bein^ 
preferable  (See  Service  for  dinner  wines),  but  this  la. 
not  "de  rigueur".  In  pouring  wine  do  not  fill  to  the 
top  of  the  glass.  Change  the  knife,  fork  and  spoou 
after  each  dish.  The  host  or  hostees  should  pay  atten- 
tion and  see  that  the  guests  are  served  a  second  time 
if  so  desired.  When  the  dinner  is  finished,  the  host 
should  arise  and  conduct  his  guests  to  the  reception 
room,  where  coffee  and  liquors  are  served. 


ETIQUETTE    AT    THE    TABLE 

(La  maniere  de  se  tenir  a  table) 

No  matter  what  form  of  invitation  you  receive,  be 
very  exact.  Do  not  keep  the  host  waiting,  as  it  is  a 
breach  of  etiquette.  Always  arrive  one  quarter  of  an 
hour  before  the  time  your  invitation  calls  for.  After 
being  seated,  put  the  napkin  on  your  lap  and  do  not 
make  any  noise  when  eating  soup.  When  the  soup  Is 
finished,  leave  the  spoon  in  the  plate.  Shrimps  and 
cracked  cold  lobster  are  eaten  with  the  fingers.  The 
fork  is  held  in  the  left  hand,  the  thumb  turned  down 
and  the  first  finger  on  the  back.  The  knife  is  held  in 
the  right  hand  and  should  never  be  raised  to  tht» 
mouth.  The  bread  should  be  placed  at  the  left  and 
broken  with  the  fingers.  Never  refuse  to  take  any 
dish  offered  you,  as  it  might  offend  the  host  or  hostess. 
Never  ask  to  be  served  a  second  time  the  same 
thing  or  plass  your  plate  again.  Do  not  put  your 
elbows  upon  the  table.     Never  lift  jour  glass  when  you 

—  421  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

are  being  served  with  wine,  and  never  empty  it  during 
the  meal.  Fruits  should  be  cut  with  a  knife,  assorted 
cakes  to  be  eaten  with  the  fingers.  Ice  cream  should 
be  eaten  with  a  small  spoon,  and  never  touch  the  teeth.. 
Never  offer  any  of  the  invited  guests  any  fruit  that  has 
been  cut.  Do  not  get  up  from  the  table  until  after  the 
host  or  hostess  have  arisen.  The  guests  are  then  con- 
ducted to  the  drawing  room  where  coffee  and  liquor  are 
served.  It  wold  be  very  impolite  to  leave  immediately 
after  the  dinner,  but,  in  case  of  necessity,  the  host  can 
be  notified  in  advance.  The  guests  may  offer  the 
hostess  flowers. 


SERVICE    OF    WINE 

(Service  des  vins  dans   le  diner) 

The  head  waiter,  or  the  person  who  has  charge  af  the 
wines,  should  inform  the  waiters  and  specify  the  diffe- 
rent wines  which  are  to  be  served  at  each  course.  It  is 
very  important  to  serve  wines  in  a  decanter  and  to  have 
ready  the  marked  ones  on  the  menu.  Every  wine  should 
be  served  at  its  temperature. 


TEMPERATURE    OF    WINES 

(Temperature  des  vins) 

Madeira,  SheriT,  Xeres;   serve  cold. 

Bordeaux:   52  to  56  deg.  farh. ;   or  temperature  of  room. 

Burgundy:  42  to  46  degrees  Farh. 

Champagne:  Cold  or  frappe. 

Dessert.  Wine  cooled. 

Aperitif,  cold,  mix  ice  with  the  spoon  only. 

Aperitif,   cold,  use  plenty  ice  in  shaker. 


Aperitif  on  the  Buffet 
Absinthe,   Bitters,   Cocktails,   Madeira,   Vermouth. 

—  422  — 


COCKTAILS 


Cocktails 

There  are  so  many  different  varieties  of  cocktails 
that  it  is  quite  impossible  to  enumerate  them  all 
here.  Every  country  has  its  specialties.  France 
has  Absinthe,  Vermouth,  Amer  Ficon,  Dubonnet, 
St.  Raphael  and  Byrrh.  Different  cocktails  are  put  in 
the  shaker  and  covered  with  ice.  Shake  well  and 
serve  cold.  Others  are  made  with  broken  ice,  and 
mixed  with  a  spoon,  or  made  of  syrup  according  to 
desire. 
Absinthe,   Cracked   ice   in   large   glass,   3   drops   orange 

bitters  and  2  drops  of  syrup  in  shaker. 
Brocade,  Italian  vermouth,  gin  grenadine,   lemon  juice, 

put  in   shaker, 
Bronx,  Gin,  French  and  Italian  vermouth  with  ice,  slice 

of     orange   and   pineapple     in     shaker.     Dry;      only 

French   vermouth. 
Calisaya,    Calisaya  Vermouth,     ice,    1   drop     of     bitter 

orange,    little    vermouth,    stir    with    spoon,    serve      in 

small   glass. 
Clover  Club,   1   white  egg,  little  raspberry  syrup  juice 

of    half    lemon,    two    thirds    gin,    ice,    in    shaker,    a 

few  leaves  of  mint,  serve   cold  in  Bordeaux  glass. 
Clover  Leaf,  V2  spoon  sugar,  1  spoon  raspberry  syrup, 

juice  of  half  lemon,  one  white   egg,  3  thirds  of  gin, 

ice  in  shaker,  serve  in  champagne  glass  with  leaves 

of    mint. 
Cognac,    Gin,    whiskey,    in    large    glass    with    ice,    one 

drop  "Dokers"  bitters,  2  drops  syrup,  strain  in  small 

glass. 
Cornell,    1    white    egg,   juice   of   one   lemon,    %    maras- 
chino, gin,  ice,  in  shaker. 
Coronation,   One   third   Dubonnet,     one     third     French 

vermouth,  one  third  gin,  ice,  in  shaker. 
Cris,  2  drops  maraschino,   i/^   gin,   i^   French  vermouth, 

ice,   stir. 
Dubonnet,   I/2   gin,   1^   Dubonnet,  ice,  stir. 
Fancy,  1  drop  syrup,  1  drop  bitters,  1  drop  of  curagao, 

3  drops  raspberry  syrup,  %   gin,  ice,  in  shaker,  with 

twisted   lemon   peel. 

—  423  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Fifth    Avenue,    A    little    French    and    Italian    vermouth, 

1  drop  orange  bitters,  two  thirds  gin,  ice,  stir. 
Gibsort,  Half  gin,  half  French  vermouth,  ice,  stir. 
Gin   Cocktail,  1  drop  bitters,  gin,  ice,  stir,  lemon  peel. 
Cancel,    %    gin,   Dubonnet,   raspberry   syrup,   ice,   lemon 

juice,   strain. 
Gin  Crusta,  Line  glass  w.  i/^  lemon  peel,  1  drop  bitters, 

shaved   ice,   juice   of    V2    lemon,    1    drop   maraschino, 

gin,  stir. 
Gin    Daisy,    Juice    of    V2    lemon,    %    gin,    V2    raspberry 

syrup,   ice,    put   in    shaker,    strain,   large    glass,   with 

Seltzer    water. 
Gin    Highball,    Gin,    ice,    Seltzer    water,    stir. 
Gin   Julep,   i/^   spoon  sugar,  gin,  mint  sprig,  ice,  stir. 
Gin   Punch,  Little  raspberry  syrup,  1  spoon  sugar,  gin, 

4  drops  of  lemon  juice,   2   drops  maraschino,   1   slice 

orange,   ice,  put   in   shaker,  with   fresh  fruit. 
Gin   Rickey,  Ice,  gin,  juice  of  half  lemon.  Seltzer  water, 

stir. 
Gin   Smash,  1   spoon  sugar,  mint  sprig,  gin,  ice,  water, 

stir. 
Gin  Sangaree,  1  spoon  sugar,  %  gin,  V4,  port  wine,  ice, 

put    in    shaker. 
Gin  Sour,  I/2  spoon  sugar,  gin,  juice  of  half  lemon,  ice, 

in  shaker,  one  slice  of  orange. 
Gin   Toddy,    1/2    spoon   sugar,   ice,   gin,    stir  well. 
Hardward,    1    drop    orange   bitters,    1    drop   maraschino, 

V2  gin,  V2  Italian  vermouth,  ice,  in  shaker. 
Hot  Gin  Toddy,  V2  spoon  sugar  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

gin,  stir,   serve  with  grated  nutmeg. 
Hot  Gin  Sling,  1  piece  of  sugar  dissolved  in  hot  water, 

gin   and   hot   water,   stir,    serve   with   grated   nutmeg 

and   slice   of  lemon. 
Hot   Spiced    Gin,   1   piece   of  sugar,   i^    spoon   of  mixed 

spices    dissolved    in    hot   water,    gin   with   hot   water, 

serve  with  grated  nutmeg. 
Jersey,    Ice,    apple    juice,    French    or   Italian    vermouth, 

Angostura  bitters,  in  shaker. 
June    Daisy,    1    spoon    sugar,     10    drops    of    raspberry 

syrup,   juice   of    %    lemon,   juice   of   ^2    orange,   juice 

of  V2  lime,  %  gin,  ice,  in  shaker,  ginger  ale. 

—  424  — 


COCKTAILS 


June    Rose,   Juice   of   1   orange,   juice   of    i^    lemou   and 

V2   lime,   14   gin,    V2   raspberry   syrup,   ice,   in   shaker, 

Seltzer  water. 
Manhattan,  Tee,   two   thirds   whiskey,   one   third   Italian 

vermouth,   Doker   bitters,    stir,   strain   in   small   glass, 

with   preserved   cherries. 
Martini,   Dry,    ice,   Tom   gin,   French   vermouth,   1    drop 

of   bitters,   stir,   strain   in   small   glass   serve  with   an 

olive  or  sweet  or  Italian  vermouth. 
Mint  Julep,  Mint,  sugar,  whiskey,   rum,   ice,  in  shaker, 

serve  cold. 
New   Orleans   Fizz    Vn    spoon   sugar,   juice   of   V2   lemon, 

and  14  of  orange,  and  V2  of  lime,  V4,  raspberry  syrup, 

%    gin,   -   white    of    egg,   1    spoon    cream,    put   ice    in 

shaker  for  five  minutes,  strain. 
Old   Fashioned,  One  drop  of  bitters,  one  piece  of  sugar 

dissolved    in   water,   gin,   ice,    stir,    serve   with   lemon 

peel. 
Orange,    Juice   of     V^     orange,    1   drop     of    Chartreuse, 

%    gin,    1/4    Italian   Vermouth,   ice    in   shaker,    strain, 

serve    w.    orange    peel. 
Perfect,    i/4    gin,    V4,    French    vermouth,    i/4    Italian    ver- 
mouth,  ice. 
Plaza,  Ice,  2  slices  of  pineapple,  2  thirds  gin,  %  Italian 

vermouth,  i/^  gin,  ice  in  shaker. 
Ritz,  1  fifth  French  and  Italian  vermouth,  3  fifths  gin, 

1  orange  peel,  chill. 
Royal   Fizz,  1  spoon  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  gin,  1  egg, 

ice   in   shaker,    strain   seltzer  water  w.   straw. 
Ruby,   1   drop  of  bitters,   i^   gin,   i/^    French  and  Italian 

vermouth,  ice,  chilled. 
Silver  Fizz,  Juice  of  lemon,   1  spoon  sugar,   1  white  of 

egg,  V2  gin,  ice  in  shaker,  seltzer  water. 
Sir    Robert,    %    gin,    i^    Italian    vermouth,    ice,    orangei 

peel,   chill   and   strain. 
Star,   Two  thirds   apple  jack,    %    Italian  vermouth,   ice, 

stir. 
Surprise,    1    piece    of    ice,    4    drops    of    bitters,    ',4    gin, 

V2  Italian  vermouth,  5  drops  cream  of  mint,  1  lemon 

peel,    stir. 


425 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Terminal,  1  piece  of  orange,  %  of  Frencli  vermouth, l^ 
gin,   %   Dubonnet,   %   ice,  chill  and   strain. 

Tom  Collins,  Lemon  juice,  powdered  sugar,  gin,  ice, 
chill,   in   large   glass   with   club   soda. 

Turf,  2  drops  absinthe,  2  drops  maraschino,  2  drops 
orange  bitters,  1  drop  of  Angostura  bitters,  Vo  gin, 
Vz    vermouth,   ice,   stir,    serve   w.    olive. 

Vermouth,  Ice,  large  glass  w.  bitters,  stir. 

Yale,  In  glass,  %  ice,  1  drop  syrup,  2  drops  orange 
bitters,  1  drop  Angostura  bitters,  2  drops  maraschino, 
1/2  French  vermouth,  i-^  gin,  stir,  lemon  peel  on  top. 

Yvette,  14  cream,  Yvette,  i^  gin,  %  French  vermouth, 
shaved   ice,    strain,   serve   w.    candied   violets,    straw. 

Zaza,  1/^  Dubonnet,  i/^  gin,  1^  French  vermouth,  ice, 
stir. 

NOTE  —  All     cocktails     are     generally     served     with 
twisted  lemon  peel   on   top. 


First   Service 


With  the  oysters. — ^Sauternes,  Barsac,  Graves,  Mon- 
trachet,   Chablis,  Dry  Champagne  for  divers  countries. 

After  the  soup. — Madeira,  Sherry,  Xeres. 

With  the  fish. — Rhin  wine,  Johanisberger,  Marcobru- 
ner,  Stocheelner,  Laubenheimer,  Liebfraumilch,  Stein- 
berger,  Moselle,  Brauneberger,  Berncasteler,  Zeltinger, 
with  the  Releves,  2nd  grade,  Cotes  Saint-Jacques,  Mou- 
lin-a-Vent,  Macon,  Beaune,  Clos-Vougeot,  with  the  en- 
trees, 2nd  grade,  Bordeau  ,  Saint-Emilion,  Medoc,  Sain*» 
Julien  and  ry  Champagne  of  divers  countries. 


FROZEN    PUNCH    OR    SHERBET 

(Second   Service) 

With  roasts- — 1st  grade.  Burgundy,  Pommard,  Nuits, 
Corton,  Chambertin,  Romance-Conti,  with  cold  roasts. 
Vin  de  paille  Steinberg  w.  entremts  (Hot).  1st  grade, 
Bordeaux.  Chateau-Margot,  Leonville,  Laffite,  Larose, 
Pontet-Canet,  Saint-Pierre,  Cotes  du  Rhone,  Hermitage, 
Cote-Rotie,  Champagne  Rouge,  Bouzy,  Verzenay,  Porto. 

—  426  — 


BUFFET    AND    REFRESHMENTS 


Third   Service 

With  the  dessert.  —  Burgundy,  Volnay  Mousseux, 
Champa.gne-Roederer,  Rose  Mousseux,  Pommery,  Cll- 
quot,  Montebello,  Rogers,  Heidsieck,  Mercier,  Iroy,  Saint 
Marceau,   Coronation  Delbeck  etc. 

After  the  dessert.  —  Muscatel,  Malaga,  Alicante,  Mal- 
voisie,  Lacrynia-Christi,  Madere,  Tokay,  Constance, 
Schiraz,  Cordial  and  Liquors.  With  the  cafe,  Grande 
Fine  Champagne,  Chartreuse,  Maraschino,  Anisette,  Cu- 
ragao,  Kirsch,  Prunelle,  Cognac,  Benedictine,  Kummel, 
Arrack,  etc. 

Beers. — Ale  Porter,  Stout. 


Wines  and   Liquors  served  at  different  Dinners 

Service  a  la  Frangaise  "French  style".  Reception  room. 
Absinthe,  Amers,  Madere,  Vermouth,  etc.  Dinner  wine.— 
Graves,  Xeres,  Lafaurie,  Saint-Pierre,  Beaujolais,  Cli- 
quot,  Liquors,  etc. 

Service  a  la  Russe  "Russian  style"  or  "American 
style".  On  reception  room,  buffet,  relishes,  Madeira, 
Sherry,  Amers,  Cocktails,  etc.  Dinner  wine. — Haut  Sau- 
ternes,  A  montillado.  Sherry,  Barsac,  Pontet-Canet,  Per- 
rier-Jouet,   Moet   et   Chandon,   Liquors,   etc. 

Service  a  I'AUemande  "German  style".  No  wine  In 
reception  room.  Dinner  wine. — Niersteiner,  STierry,  Ma- 
deira, Mochheimer,  Saint-Estephe  or  dry  Pommery, 
Beaune,  Liquors  and  beers. 


BUFFET    AND    REFRESHMENTS 

Particular  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  alimenta- 
tion and  drinks  for  the  buffet.  One  should  serve  lighi 
dishes  and  light  drinks,  hot  drinks  being  preferable. 
Champagne  is  the  most  stimulating  and  less  intoxi- 
cating, of  course  when  there  is  no  abuse.  There  is 
certainly  a  long  nomenclature  of  aliments  and  drinks 
to  be  served  for  the  buffet  but  the  richness  and  variety 
depend  upon  the  circumstances  of  the  host  or  hostess. 

—  427  — 


GAN  CEL'  S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Bavaroise,  Hot  or  cold  composition,  V2  lb.  sugar,  8  egg 
yolks.  1  gill  syrup,  i/^  qt.  tea,  i/^  qt.  milk,  whipped  in 
bain-Marie,  add  liquor  if  you   desire. 

Bishop,  Cold  comp.  made  all  kinds  wine,  hot  or  cold 
composition,  1  qt.  champagne,  1  glass  m^adeira,  1  or- 
ange, 1/^  lemon  sliced  thin,  little  syrup,  4  small  glasses 

of  cognac.  Essence  for  Bishop  made  w.  1  doz.  bitter 
orange  peels  and  1  lemon  macerated  in  1  qt.  madeira 
or  marsala  wine,  4  cloves,  1  stick  cinnamon,  let  mace- 
rate for  24  hours  strained,  put  in  bottle-  When  ready 
for  use,  add  10  ounces  sugar,  3  gills  water,  add  i/^  qt. 
essences  and  wine,  according  to  proportions  or  cham- 
pagne, 6  ounces  sugar  only. 

Bowl  of  Punch,  Comp.  cold  cham^pagne  3  qts.  Sauternes, 
two  bottles,  soda  water  3  bottles,  1  gill  curagao  fresh 
fruit  in  season. 

Bowl  of  Rum,  Comp.  rum  Sainte-Croix  2  bottles,  1  Ja- 
maica, 2  qts.  water,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  gill  lemon  juice, 
fresh  fruit  in  season. 

Bowl  of  Fruits,  Comp.  1  pineapple  in  dice,  4  peaches,  4 
apricots  sliced  after  peeled,  ^2  qt.  pitted  cherries, 
strawberries  raspberries  red  currants,  moisten  w.  y^ 
bottle  Bordeaux,  keep  on  ice.  Found  and  strain 
all  the  remainder  of  pineapple  w.  2  lbs.  strawberries, 
add  juice  of  two  oranges,  1  glass  syrup  of  sugar,  1  qt. 
chapagne.  Mix  all  together,  serve  very  cold  w.  dry 
pastry  cakes.  To  keep  cold,  make  w.  ice,  flavor  and 
color,  according  to  composition  of  bowl  of  fruit,  one 
cone  shape  in  the  center  of  bowl. 

Cafe,  Coffee  hot  w.  sugar,  milk  or  cream  or  iced,  frozen, 
served  w.  straw. 

Claret  Cup,  Comp.  1  bottle  wine.  1  ounce  sugar,  2  gills 
maraschino  or  curagao,  1  bottle  soda  water  few 
leacves  of  mint,   strawberries  or    raspberries,    sliced 

orange,  pineapple. 

Lemonade,  Old,  1  qt.  water,  5  ounces  sugar,  juice  of 
3  lemons  and  grated  peel,  1  slice  lemon  or  orange,  th& 
same,  add  1  lemon  juice.  Make  lemonade  w.  divers 
juice  of  fruit,  add  any  sparkling  water,  served  w. 
straw  in  glass. 

—  428  — 


BUFFET    AND    REFRESHMENTS 


Maitranck,    Cold    1    qt.    Rhine    wine,    1    glass    cognac,    3 

ounces   sugar,   sweet  woodruff  and   asperule   flowers, 

same  w.  champagne  or  white  wine. 
Marquise,    Cold,   White  wine   1   bottle,    1    lb.    sugar,    2 

sliced  lemons,  1  bottle  seltzer,  hot,  1  bottle  Sauteme, 

%  lb.  sugar,  lemon  peel,  cloves,  heat  then  add  2  gill& 

cognac,  burn  slices  of  lemon. 
Punch,  Hot,   3   gills  tea,   1  lb.   sugar,   1   qt.   rum,  lemon 

juice  or  sliced,  same  divers  liquors. 
Tea,  Cold,  iced  w.  sugar,  lemon  juice  or  sliced  (Russian 

style)    w.   milk  or  cream. 
Wine  Hot,  1  bottle    red    wine,    6  ounces    sugar.    1  stick 

cinnamon,  mace,  lemon  peel,  cloves  slice  of  lemon. 

KOUMISS    (Kumiss) 

Fermented  mare's  milk  10  qt&.  water  l^/^  qt.  cow's 
milk,  iy2  qt.  Put  in  sun,^at  night  time  in  warm  place, 
after  24  hours,  stir  w.  stick.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Stir 
again.  Stir  each  time  you  use,  or  make  w.  2  qts.  warm 
milk,  2  table  spoons  sugar,  %  ounce  yeast,  ferment  for 
6  hours  in  warm  place.  Keep  in  cold  place. 

SOFT   DRINKS 

Soft  drinks  are  a  mixture  of  fruit  juices  or  syrupa, 
mixed  with  any  sparkling  water  or  ice  cream.  The 
names  of  diffrent  soft  drinks  are  too  numerous  to  give 
here  and  vary  according  to  the  choice  and  taste.  Here 
are  a  few  names;  Honolulu  cocktail,  clover  leaf  cock- 
tail, silver  fizz,  golden  fizz,  orange  blossom  and  Swan- 
ton  cocktail,  cream  fizz,  etc. 

COFFEE    (Cafe) 

There  are  as  many  different  styls  of  coffee  pots  as 
there  are  methods  of  making  the  coffee.  But  the  best 
coffee  Is  made  by  the  "French  drip  method"  In  an 
earthen  or  porcelaine  pot.     (Filtered  coffee.). 

The  metal  coffee  pot  does  not  come  up  to  require- 
ments as  a  ustensil  for  making  good  coffee,  as  it  ac« 
quires  the  taste  of  the  metal.  It  is  quite  impossible  to 
remove  the  stains  from   the  walls  of  the  metal   coffee 

—  429  — 


GAN  GEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


ustensil,  and  how  much  truer  it  must  be  of  the  valve 
and  tube  of  the  perculator. 

The  action  of  the  coffee  is  directed  to  the  nervous 
system  and  when  swallowed  produces  a  warm  cordial 
impression  on  the  stomach,  quickly  followed  by  an 
agreable  nervous  excitement,  which  extends  itself  to  the 
cerebral  functions,  givinng  rise  to  increased  vigor  of 
imagination  and  intellect,  without  any  subsequent  con- 
fusion or  stupor,  such  as  charactrizes  the  action  o*, 
narcotic  medicines.  One  of  the  most  extraordinary 
effects  is  a  disposition  to  wakefulness,  which  continues 
for  several  hours  after  it  is  taken.  It  also  moderately 
e  cites  the  circulatory  system  and  stimulates  the  di- 
gestive functions.  One  can  use  the  amount  of  coffee 
desired,  as  some  people  like  it  strong  and  others  weak. 
It  depends  also  according  to  the  quality  and  if  freshly 
ground.  Following  are  2  mixtures  of  coffee..  1. — Mix 
equal  portions  or  Porto  Rico,,  Pranger  and  Salem.  2. — 
Mix  equal  parts  of  Porto-Rico  Wynard  and  Gonaive-. 
The  result  is  delicious.  The  quatity  of  coffee  for  2 
quarts  of  coffee  is  6  ounces  or  more  according  to  the 
quality. 

TURKISH   COFFE   (Cafe  a  la  Turque) 

Grind  coffee  very  fine  like  powder.  Put  in  a  special 
Turkish  coffee  pot.  Mix  the  amount  of  coffee  desired 
w.  sugar  and  cold  water.  Stir  all  together,  put  on  fire 
and  let  come  to  a  boiling  point,  take  off  and  tap  a  few 
times  on  the  stove,  to  let  the  sediment  go  to  the  bottom, 
put  on  fire  a  second  time  and  let  boil  until  it  becomes 
frothy  and  bubbles.  Serve  in  small  porcelaine,  silver, 
or  gold  cups.  (These  cups  are  a  little  larger  than 
a  thimble.)  The  Turks  always  order  coffee  "caim.akcli", 
which  means  frothy. 

DEVIL  COFFEE    (Cafe  du   Diable) 

Use  special  service.  Put  in  bowl  1  rind  of  orango 
and  lemon,  few  coffee  beans,  2  cloves,  Yz  stick  of  cin- 
namon, hot  coffee,  fine  champagne  and  benedictine, 
burn  on  the  table.  Serve  in  cups.  Quantity  according 
to  nmnber  of  guests. 

—  430  — 


THE   CELLAR 


CHOCOLATE 

Dissolved,  1  lb.  chocolate  w.  hot  milk,  put  on  the 
fire,  stir,  add  1  qt.  milk.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  add  sugar 
if  necessary.     Same  w.  water. 

ARABIAN    RACAOUT    (Racaout  des  Arabes) 

Racaout,  2  table  spoons  diluted  w.  2  spoons  of  milk, 
add  1/2  qt.  milk  w.  water,  cooked  5  minutes.  Composi- 
tion i/i  lb.  cocoa,  V2  lb.  rice  fecula,  1  lb.  oatmeal  flour, 
put  2  lbs.  icing  sugar  in  sieve,  mash  very  fine,  one  tea- 
spoon per  person. 

FIRE-BRAND    MANDARIN    (Brulot   Mandarine) 

Take  a  mandarine,  cut  the  skin  in  the  center,  and 
turn  without  breaking  so  as  to  form  a  cup;  fill  with 
lumps  of  sugar  and  fine  champagne,  brandy  or  kirsch. 
Light,  burn  and  keep  stirring.     Serve  in  coffee. 

POUSSE    CAFE 

Composed  in  liquor  glass,  4  liquors  not  to  be  mixed- 
Ceram  of  mint,  fine  champagne  brandy,  chartreuse  and 
cream  of  cacao. 

THE     CELLAR     (La    Cave) 

The  cellar  should  be  exposed  to  the  north  and  be 
cold  and  dry.  The  sun  should  never  penetrate  through 
the  air  holes,  and  in  very  hot  and  cold  weather  the 
holes  should  be  closed  to  prevent  immediate  action 
in  change  of  temperature.  The  temperature  of  the 
wine  cellar  should  be  from  10  to  12  degrees  centigrade 
above  zero,  or  56  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  it  is 
too  dry,  it  evaporates  the  wines.  In  a  good  cellar 
an  ordinary  barrel  will  absorb  2  or  3  glasses  of  liquid 
each  month,  otherwise  if  the  cellar  is  too  dry  it  will 
absorb  1  quart.  The  temperature  should  not  vary  more 
than  2  or  3  degrees,  for  the  extreme  cold  or  heat  will 
destroy  the  quality  of  the  wine.  The  bottles  should  be 
placed  in  boxes  and  laid  down  flat  so  that  the  wine 
will  touch  the  cork.  The  bottles  should  be  put  in 
order,      to     keep     from      breaking.         Look     at     each 

—  431  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

bottle  and  see  if  the  wine  is  in  good  condition  and 
if  it  is  not  clear  let  stand  for  24  hours  until  all  of  the 
deposit  goes  to  the  bottom,  or  put  it  in  a  decanter. 
Young  wines  of  good  quality  get  old  and  obtain  a  cer- 
tain "bouquet"  when  kept  in  a  cellar  of  moderate  tem- 
perature, but  not  too  long  a  time.  Champagne,  Rhine 
wine  and  Moselle  should  be  kept  in  cool  cellars.  See 
that  each  bottle  is  well  corked. 

TO   DECANT  WINES    (Les  Vins   Decantes) 

The  decanting  of  wines  consists  in  pouring  it  ouv 
slowly,  the  bottle  should  be  slightly  inclined,  so  as 
not  to  disturb  the  deposit  which  proves  the  good  quality. 
The  transparent  color  of  the  wine  contributes 
largely  to  the  pleasure  in  drinking  it.  At  dinner  the 
wine  is  generally  put  in  decanters  of  cut  glass..  An- 
other easy  way  is  to  put  the  bottle  in  a  small  basket, 
which  is  held  by  two  rings,  then  pour  out  slowly.  But 
it  is  necessary  in  this  manner  to  place  the  bottjes 
several  hours  before  dinner  time,  when  the  wine  has 
sufficiently  reposed. 

CHAMPAGNE    (Le   Champagne) 

The  manner  of  uncorking  champagne  is  very  easy 
these  days.  After  taking  of  the  wire,  the  cork  should 
be  taken  of  slowly  and  without  any  noise.  The  cham- 
pagne glass  should  be  very  near  when  pouring  it  so 
none  will  be  wasted.  Pour  out  slov/ly  on  the  side  of  the 
glass  so  it  will  stop  effervesing  and  the  glass  is  filled 
without  any  loss.  No  glass  should  ever  be  filled  to 
the  top  with  any  kind  of  wine.  Champagne  of  the  best 
quality  should  be  put  on  ice  twenty  minutes.  Wines 
lose  their  quality  when  kept  on  the  ice  too  long. 

HOW  TO  CHILL  CHAMPAGNE 
(Maniere  de  trapper  le  Champagne) 
To  chill  Champagne  use  rock  salt  and  pounded  ice. 
Put  bottle  in  a  cooler  made  of  silver,  or  galvanized 
zinc,  fill  with  rock  salt  and  ice  up  to  the  neck,  stirring 
continually  the  mixture  right  and  left.  12  to  15  minutes 
are  sufficient  to  chill  the  Champagne.    To  keep  it  cool 

—  432  — 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 


put  in  salt  and  ice  20  to  30  minutes  before  serving. 
When  one  is  very  much  in  a  hurry  put  the  cooler,  al- 
ready prepared,  on  the  fire  and  turn;  in  five  minutes 
The  Champagne  is  chilled. 

CLARIFYING   OF  WINE 
(Collage  et  Clarification   du   Vin) 

Very  often  wines  are  not  clear  and  must  be  clarified. 
The  best  substances  for  clarifying  wines  are:  Fresh 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  salt,  blood  of  beef 
freshly  killed,  cool  with  salt,  and  the  wine  which  is  to 
be  clarified,  or  fish  gelatine.  No  matter  what  the  clari- 
fication is,  proceed  in  the  same  manner;  melt  the  subs- 
tance, mix  with  the  wine  and  pour  into  the  hole  of 
the  barrel,  take  a  long  split  stick,  stir  very  well,  and 
let  repose  15  days. 

MISCELLANEOUS     RECIPES 

Aromatic,  Aromatics  are  a  vegetable  substance,  which 
have  an  agreable  penetrating  odor-  Aromatics,  no 
matter  in  which  manner  they  are  employed  are  very 
important    and    one    should    know   how    to    use    them. 

Savory 

Name  Anise,  Bay  leaves,  Chili  Sauce,  Cloves,  Celery, 
Coriander,  Curry  Garlic,  Catsup,  Kitchen  Bouquet,  Nas- 
turium  seeds  (Capers),  Onions,  Parsley,  Pepper,  Pi- 
mientos,  Sage,  Shallots,  Summer  savory,  Sweet  Mar- 
joran.  Tobacco  Sauce,  Thyme,  Worcestershire,  Sauce. 

SEASONING  (Assaisonnements) 

All  cooking  should  be  well  seasoned.  No  dish  will 
have  any  taste  if  it  is  not  savoured  well.  That  is  to 
say — the  precise  style  of  condimente,  which  is  necessary 
for  each  aliment. 

SPICES    (Condiments) 

Spices  are  used  as  seasoning  for  mixed  aliments, 
aromatics,  for  sweetening,  for  slightly  sour,  for  salted 
articles:  Spices  are  the  most  precious  culinary  article. 
Choose  spices  vfhich  are  good  for  the  digestion.  Fol- 
lowing   are    several    recipes    for    spices: 

4  00     
o<j    


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Flavoring  for  sweet  dishes 

"Vanilla,  Almond,  Cinnamon,  Nutmet,  Clove,  Allspice, 
Ginger,  V/ine,  Mapple  or  Fruit  syrup,  Chocolate,  Lemon, 
and  Orange  (juice  and  rind).    All  other  fruit  or  liquors. 

SPECIAL    SPICES    FOR    STEWS   AND    STUFFING 
(Epices  pour   Ragout) 

Thyme  %  ounce,  bay  leaves  Vi  ounce,  Majoram  Vi 
ounce,  Rosemary  14  ounce,  nutmeg  1  ounce  , cloves  V^. 
ounce,  red  pimientos  very  dry,  pounded  strained.  Keep 
in  closed  box. 

FOUR   SPICES  HOME   STYLE 
(Quatre  Epices  Menageres') 

Black  pepper  14  ounce,  Cayenne,  Pimientos  i/4  ouncfe, 
ginger  110  grains,  cloves  V4.  ounce  when  dry  pound 
strain.   Keep  in  closed  box. 

FINE   SPICES   FOR  GAME 
(Epices  fines  pour  Gibier) 

Juniper  berries  ly^  ounces,  Corriande  y^  ounce,  Mar- 
joran  %  ounce.  Thyme  i^  ounce.  White  pepper  1  ounce, 
lemon  peel  25  grain.  Dry,  pound,  strain.  Keep  in  closed 
box,  omit  juniper  berry,  as  the  spice  produces  truffle 
extract  for  stuffing. 

SPICES  FOR  PORK  BUTCHER  OR  STUFFING 
(Epices   de  Charcuterie) 

White  pepper  10  ounces,  red  pimientos  ^/2  ounce, 
mace  Xy^.  ounces,  nutmeg  %  ounce,  cloves  %  ounce, 
thyme  %  ounce,  cinnamon  %  ounce,  bay  leaves  % 
ounce,  sage  i/^  ounce,  majoran  y^.  ounce,  rosemary  % 
ounce-  Dry,  pound,  strain.  Keep  in  bottle,  closed  well. 
CAYENNE   PEPPER    (Poivre  de  Cayenne) 

Used  divers  red  strong  guinea  pimientos.  When  dry, 
pounded  or  grind  very  fine.    Keep  in  bottle  or  box. 

PAPRIKA 

Same  Cayenne.  Use  sweet  and  violet  pimentoes. 
Chili  powder.  Use  mexican  peppers  and  violet  pimen- 
toes w.  oregan  herbs  and  camino  seeds. 

—  434  — 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 


CURRY  POWDER   (Curry  or  Curie) 

Condiment  very  aromatic,  originally  from  India.  Use 
square  yellow  pimentoes  2^^  ounces,  coriander  1^ 
ounces,  Saffron  1/2  ounce,  ginger  IV4,  ounce,  cayenne  % 
ounce.     Dry,  pound,  strain.     Keep  in  bottle  well  closed. 

NOTE. — Be  careful  wtien  you  buy  spices  or  condi- 
ments that  they  are  not  falsified. 

BAKING   POWDER — How  to   make 

Cream  of  Tartar  11/2  ounce,  bicarbonate  of  soda 
%  ounce,  tartaric  acide  i^  ounce,  starch  i/^  ounce, 
mix  all  together,  keep  in  box. 

CHEMICAL    REFRIGERATING    BATH 
Used  when   ice  is  not  obtainable.    (Bain  chimique). 

Sulphate  of  soda  1  lb.  12  ounces,  dry  muriate  am- 
monia 1  lb.  2  ounces,  dry  nitrate  of  potash  1  lb.,  water 
16  quarts,  pour  the  liquid  into  wooden  tub,  turn  quickly. 

REMEDY    FOR    BURNS    (Brulure) 

Lime  water  3  ounces,  almond  oil  ZV2  ounces,  whip  to 
a  moss,  apply  liberally,  bind  tight  with  cloth,  or  tur- 
pentine,  olive   oil,   and   powdered   alum. 

CIDER   (Cidre.) 

Prohibition  has  come  and  we  will  have  to  make  our 
own  cider.  Therefore  it  is  necessary  to  publish  some 
recipes  in  this  book.  Cider  is  prepared  in  a  great  many 
different  ways,  but  the  ordinary  way  is  the  best.  Crush 
the  apples  and  add  a  little  water  according  to  the  qual- 
ity and  the  quantity  one  desires.  Press  to  obtain  pure 
cider.  Fermentation  is  made  in  skimming  it.  To  make 
the  cider  clear  add  %  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  for  25 
gallons.  One  can  also  ferment  the  pulp  in  a  barrel  and 
add  water  and  sugar.  It  makes  cider  of  second  quality. 
An  imitation  cider  is  made  of  dried  apples  and  figs. 
Put  in  a  barrel  and  let  it  ferment  with  grapes  and  3uu- 
iper  berries.  Composition  90  quarts  of  water,  8  pounds 
apples,   4   pounds   grapes,    2   pounds    of   figs,    Vs    pound 

—  435  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

juniper  berries.  Let  macerate  8  or  10  days  according  to 
temperature.  Put  in  bottle  and  let  bottle  stand  up.  This 
cider  is  inoffensive  and  cheap, 

CIMENT 

In  the  kitchen,  as  in  domestic  economy,  is  often  used 

for  different  purposes.    Following  are  a  few  recipes  for 

making  cheap  cement. 

Ci merit  for  Aquarium,  Gelatine  14  lb.,  chromate  of  pot- 
assium IV2  ounces.  Dissolve  same  quantity  of  water, 
add  chromate  of  potassium.  To  wet  aquarium  in  dark 
room  expose  after  in  light.     Preserve  in  dark  room. 

Ciment  for  glass  1st,  Cottage  cheese.  Pounded  w.  slack 
lime.  Make  glue  very  hard.  Use  quickly  and  keep 
liquid.  2d.  Whip  white  of  an  egg,  drain  one  night 
on  top  of  sieve,  mix  water  egg  with  powder  lime, 
good  for  porcelain  or  china. 

Ciment  for  range,  furnace,  Ferruginous  ashes  (scoria) 
pounded  very  fine,  mixed  w.  1  lb.  kitchen  salt,  moisten 
w.  little  water  made  on  paste,  use  after  the  range  is 
cold. 

CORNS  AND  SOFT   PERSPIRING   FEET 

Corns  (hard).  Extract  cannabis  indica  15  grains,  sal- 
icylic acid  1  dram,  flexible  collodion,  1  ounce,  mix 
well,   painting  with   brush. 

Corns  (soft).  Use  powdered  sulphur  for  them  3  times 
a  week. 

Perspiring,  Wash  and  rinse  in  clear  water,  apply  a  solu- 
tion of  alcohol  and  salicylic  acid  in  1  quart  alcohol, 
1  tablespoon  salicylic. 

Tender  feet,  Bathe  morning  and  evening,  change  stock- 
ings daily,  massage  with  solution  80%   olive  oil  and 

20%  menthol. 

DISTILLATION 

Oils,  essences  and  acids  are  distilled  to  obtain  their 
extractions  and  purification.  Prohibition  forbids  the 
publishing  of  any  recipes  for  wines  and  liquors,  such 
as:  Beers,  wines,  cordials,  elixir,  fruit  wines,  cock- 
tails, etc. 

—  436  — 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 


DEGREE   COOKED   SUGAR   WITH    SYRUP— weigher 

Degree                                Degree  Degree 

Fahrenh.  Centigr, 

La   Nappe    20 

Small    thread    25      Small    Thread 215  101 

Large  thread    30      Large  thread 217  102 

Little    Pearl    33      Little  Pearl   220  105 

Large   Pearl    35      Large  Pearl   222  106 

The    Blow    37      The  Blow   230  110 

Large  Blow   38      Small   Blow    236  115 

Small    Ball    39      Large  Blow   248  120 

Large    Ball    40      Small    Crack    290  143 

Crack  and  Carmel,  Large  Crack.... 310  to  345  150 

GREASE    (Graisse) 

Grease  should  be  made  more  or  less  hard,  but  al- 
ways white  and  without  any  odor.  The  culinacry  artist 
always  uses  pure  white  grease. 

Modelling   grease — preparation 

Composition:  Mutton  kidney  fat  4  lbs.,  leaf  lard  2 
lbs.,  boric  acid  30  grains,  bicarbonate  of  soda  ^/^ 
ounce,  water  1  qt.,  cleaned  and  cut  the  grease  in 
dice,  soak  in  water  until  white.  Then  put  in  pan  w. 
water,  boric  acid  and  bicarbonate  soda.  Cook  slowly 
in  bain-marie.  When  the  grease  is  dissolved,  strain, 
when  cold  pound,  strain  through  fine  hair  sieve  two 
times.  Knead.  Keep  in  damp  cloth.  All  receipts 
from  Mr.  A.  Escoffier,  my  former  chef,  who  was  an 
artist  in  wax  flowers. 

Pedestal  Grease,  Preparation — Composition  leaf  lard 
dissolved  2  lbs.,  Virgin  wax  i/^  lb.,  stearin  y^  lb.,  par- 
affino  1/2  lb..  White  of  Whale  i^  lb.  Mixed  after  dis^ 
solved,  add  leaf  lard.     Good  for  every  decoration. 

To  compound  Grease 

Comp.  Virgin  Wax  1  lb.,  leaf  lard  1  lb.,  White  of 
Wh?le  1  lb.  Dissolved  in  bain-marie.  Very  good  foi- 
leaves.     Colored  in  green. 

—  437  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Flower  Grease — Preparation 

Comp.  Stearin  i/^  lb.,  White  of  Whale  4  ounces,  Bal- 
sam Gum  1  ounce.  Dissolved  in  bain-marie.  Very 
S'ocd  for  fine  leaves  of  flowers. 

Frying  Grease. 

Frying  grease  is  divided  into  5  different  kinds,  such 
as:  oil,  grease,  lard,  suet  and  clarified  butter.  For  fry- 
ing, oil  and  liquid  grease  is  best.  In  all  fried  articles 
be  careful  not  to  color  or  burn.  One  can  tell  the  degree 
of  the  heat  by  the  smoke.  At  210  degrees  Fahrenheit 
the  smoke  is  claudy  and  light,  but  becomes  blue  when 
it  attains  the  maximum  degree. 

Degrees  for  hot  grease 

Fahrenheit  Centigrade 

Medium     Burn     Moyenne  Brule 

Butter   278             334  115  130 

Grease    of    beef,   mutton 

veal    334             437  130  150 

Grease  of  stock 437             549  150  170 

Grease  of  goose 480             602  230  260 

Lard 549             671  170  200 

HOW  TO  CARVE   (Decoupage) 

Successful    carving   requires    good   tools,    skill    and    a 
knowledge  of  how  to   carve.      Skill   depends   upon   the 
individual,    the    good    tools    are    these: 
1  sharp-bladed  knife, 
1  fork,  two  or  three  pronged, 

1  pair  carving  scissors   (used  only  in  the  kitchen), 

2  serving  spoons,  one  with  a  long  handle  for  reaching 
stuffings. 

How  to  carve,  here  are  a  few  points  usually  observed: 
(1)  Meat  to  be  carved  should  be  conveniently  near 
tho  person  carving  it.  (2)  It  should  be  placed  on  a 
dish  sufficiently  large  so  the  dish  will  not  have  to  be 
moved.  The  carving  dish  should  be  sufficiently  deep, 
so  the  meat  will  not  slip  in  it.  (3)  Beef,  veal,  lamb, 
pork,  ham  and  mutton  are  sliced  thin  as  a  general  rule. 

—  438  — 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 


'Ribs  or  beef  or  sirloin".  Cut  each  slice  through  to 
the  bone.  Loosen  each  slice  at  the  bone  with  the  point 
of  the  knife,  make  the  slice  thin  or  thick,  remove  super- 
fluous fat.  "Loin  and  ruak".  Begin  carving  at  the  best 
end,  cutting  a  complete  chop  for  each  person  served. 
If  the  loin  is  large  and  each  portion  of  the  vertebrae 
too  thick  have  the  vertebrae  sawed  in  the  kitchen  or 
boned  so  the  slices  will  be  thinner.  "Leg".  Cut  the 
leg  across  the  center  to  the  bone.  To  do  this  stand  the 
leg  up.  Thinner  part  uppermost.  Serve  a  portion  of 
knuckle  with  each  slice  of  thick  end.  "Forequarters". 
Preliminary  carving  should  be  done  in  the  kitchen.  The 
shoulder  should  be  put  on  a  separate  plate.  The  carver 
will  then  have  a  loin  and  a  shoulder  or  leg  to  carve. 

"Saddle".  Cut  English  style  in  lengthwise,  slices  out 
of  the  bone.     Slice  thick. 

"Ham".  Cut  through  straight  to  the  bone,  working 
from  the  center  near  the  thick  end.  Cut  from  upper 
side,  serving  fat  and  lean  evenly.     Serve  thin  circular 

slices. 

"Tongue".  Slice  from  the  center  working  both  ways. 
If  the  tongue  is  of  a  large  animal  do  not  cut  through 
to  the  bottom  part.  The  bottom  and  tip  are  ususally 
chopped   and  used  in  cooking. 

"Chicken".  Put  a  fork  in  the  wing  and  with  a  knife 
cut  it  off.  In  taking  off  the  leg,  first  slip  the  knife  bet- 
ween the  leg  and  the  body  and  cut,  then  turn  the  leg 
back  w.  the  fork  and  remove  it.  Later  separate  the 
first  and  second  points.  Slice  the  breast,  remove  the 
wishbone,  separate  the  side  bones  and  collor  bone  so 
the  back  is  left. 

"Turkey".  Follow  the  procedure  suggested.  Do  not 
serve  the  drumstick  or  lower  part  of  the  leg  unless  it 
is  requested,  this  being  rather  hard.  Turn  the  platter 
(or  the  turkey)    and   carve  the  other. 

"Goose  and  ducks".  Follow  the  suggestion  given, 
the   breast  and   legs   are   choice   portions. 

"Partridge,   Squabs,   Quail",  etc.      Split  to  be  broiled 

"Hare,  rabbit,  etc."  To  remove  the  legs  and  shoulders 
right   down   the    back,     cooking    them     "spread    eagle" 


439  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

fashion.      Frequently  paper   frills   are   put  on   the   legs, 
making  it  possible  to  handle  them  easily, 
put  the  knife  near  the  joint  and  w.  a  twisting  motion 
of  the  fork  make  the  separation.    Put  the  portions  which 
are  regarded  as  the  choicest. 

"Fish".  As  a  steel  knife  is  said  to  injure  the  delicate 
flavor  of  fish  a  silver  fish  slicer  or  knife  should  be 
used.  Short-grained  fish,  like  salmon,  should  be  cut 
crosswise,  but  long-grained  fish  shoud  be  cut  length- 
wise.    Care  should  be  taken  not  to  separate  the  flakes. 

JAMS   (Confitures) 

Jams  are  cooked  fruits  with  aromatic  condiments  and 
should  not  be  mistaken  for  marmalade  or  jelly.  Mar- 
malade is  a  puree,  jelly  is  the  juice  of  transparent  fruit. 
There  are  three  different  kinds  of  jams — dried  jam, 
made  with  the  skin  of  large  fruit,  jam  of  the  pulp  made 
with  the  pulp  of  peeled  fruit,  and  jam  of  berries,  cher- 
ries, grapes,  prunes  and  currants  preserved  whole  with 
the  skins.  Fruits  to  be  preserved  should  be  picked 
before  they  are  ripe.  Fruits  bought  in  stores  are  used 
for   decorations. 

General    Rule 

For  all  fruits  add  2  quarts  of  sugar,  for  1  quart  of 
cooked  fruit  juice,  modify  according  to  the  sweetness 
or  the  sourness  of  the  fruit  by  three  ounces  more  or 
less,  if  the  fruits  are  not  preserved  with  enough  sugar 
they  turn  sour,  and  if  there  is  too  much  sugar  they 
turn  into  candy.  Keep  stirring  the  bottom  of  the  pot 
well  so  the  fruit  will  not  stick.  When  they  are  cooked 
put  in  glasses  or  jars  covered  with  paper  dipped  in 
cognac  or  cover  with  paraffine. 

Bar  le  Due  style.  White  or  red  currants,  remove  the 
seeds,  cook  in  honey.  Bar  le  Due  is  a  town  in  France, 
renowned  for  currant  jam. 

ORANGE    MARMALADE 

Wash,  cut  the  oranges  in  small  pieces,  and  slice  skin 
very  thin.  Add  lemon  juice,  measure  the  juice  and  pulp, 
then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water.     Let  stand 

—  440  — 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES 


uncovered  for  24  hours.  Boil  uncovered  for  1^^  hours; 
let  stand  again  24  hours.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
sugar  and  boil  till  jelly  is  formed.  Turn  into  hot  sterl- 
ized  glasses.  This  makes  from  8  to  10  glasses  of  mild 
clear  jelly  with  the  fruit  suspended  in  it. 

(For  Sweet  Pickled   Fruit) 

Pick  out  fruit  that  is  not  too  ripe,  add  %  pint  good 
vinegar  to  l^^  pounds  sugar,  reduced  according  to  fruit. 
Add  spices  to  your  taste;  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger  and 
lemon  peel.  Pears,  Peaches,  Blackberries,  Figs,  Straw- 
berries. Cherries,  Prunes  and  Apples  can  be  used.  It 
is  very  delicious  and  can  be  served  with  turkey,  chicken 
and  roast. 

MEASURE    EQUIVALENT    OF    METRIC    MEASURE 

Length   (Longueur) 

1   inch,    1-36   yard,    equal    2.539,954   Centim 

1  foot,    1/3   yard,   equal    30.479449   Decim 

1  mille,  1.760  yards,  equal 1609.3149  metre 

1  yard,   3   feed,   equal 091.438348   metre 

Capacity    (Capacite) 

1  pint    equal    ( 0.5679       litre 

1  quart   equal    1.1359       litre 

1  gallon  equal   4.543658  litre 

1   gill   equal    1.42  decilitre 

Avoirdupoids 

1  pound,  16  ounces,  7.000  grains,  equal  453,592645  gram 

1   ounce    (4371/^    grains),   equal 28.349540   gram 

1  grain  equal   0.065  centigram 

1  ten  (20  quintan)  equal. 1016.048  kilogram 

Thermometer 

Fahrenheit,  32  degrees  equal 0    (glace)   centigrade 

Fahrenheit,  212  Farh.   (Boiling  water)   equal  100  degree 
centigrade. 

—  441  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Measurements   for    Household 

3  teaspoons  equal  1  tablespoon 

16   tablespoons  equal    1  cup 

2   cups   equal    1   pint 

2  pints  equal    1  quart 

2   tablespoons    sugar  or   butter   equal 1    ounce 

4  tablespoons   flour  equal    1   ounce 

2  cups  sugar,  lard  or  butter  equal 1  pound 

314   to  41^   cups  flour  equal 1  pound 

8  large  eggs  equal 1  pound 

All  measurements  should  be  level;  level  dry  materials 
with  a  knife. 

For   14   spoon,  divide  with  the  knife  lengthwise. 

For  1^  spoon,  divide  with  the  knife  lengthwise,  then 
crosswise. 

For  Vs  spoon  divide  with  the  knife  lengthwise,  then 
crosswise,   then   crosswise   again. 

TIME   FOR   DIVERS  COOKING 

Boof,  rare,  per  pound  8  to  10  minutes;  well  done  12 
to  15  minutes. 

Mutton,  rare,  per  pound  10  minutes;  well  done  15 
minutes. 

Lamb  15  minutes. 

Veal,  well  done,  per  pound,  20  minutes. 

Pork,  well  done,  30  minutes. 

Turkey,   10   pounds,    2  hours. 

Chicken,  3  to  4  pounds,  1  to   11^   hours. 

Goose,   8   pounds,   2  hours. 

Tame  Duck,   45  to  60  minutes. 

Game  Duck,  rare,  15  to  20  minutes;  well  done,  30  to 
40  minutes. 

Grousse  partridge,  20  to  30  minutes;  small  birds  10 
to  20  minutes. 

Venison,  per  pound  15  to  20  minutes. 

Fish,  long,  8  pounds,  1  hour.    Small,  15  to  30  minutes. 

Leaf  Bread,  40  to  60  minutes.  Rolls,  biscuit,  10  to 
25  mintes. 

—  442  — 


MILK— OIL 


Cake,  30  to  40  minutes.  Fruit  Cake,  2  to  3  hours. 
Cookies,  8  to  15  minutes.  Pudding,  bread,  45  to  60  min- 
utes.   Rice,  etc.,  60  minutes.    Custards,  15  to  30  minutes. 

MILK  (Le  Lait) 

Milk  is  highly  nutritious  and  is  adapted  to  promote 
the  growth  of  children  and  youth,  and  the  fact  that 
nature  has  ordained  it  as  the  natural  food  for  infants, 
is  no  mean  guaranty  of  its  ability.  Milk  promotes 
sleep  and  therefore  is  better  for  supper,  especially  for 
children  and  probably  for  the  wakeful.  Sour  milk  and 
sweetened  buttermilk  are  nutritious  and  healthy — more 
so  than  sweet  milk,  because  milk  must  be  curdled  be- 
fore it  can  be  digested. 

Some  consumptives  attribute  their  recovery  to  the 
use  of  buttermilk.  Sweet  cider  added  to  curdled  milk 
makes  a  delicious  and  wholesome  drink.  Scientists 
have  been  debating  a  long  time  to  find  out  in  which 
manner  milk  should  be  taken,  boiled  or  fresh  from 
the  co^Y.  Some  people  complain,  after  drinking  milk 
that  they  are  deranged,  but  that  comes  from  drinking 
too  hurriedly.  It  is  necessary  to  consume  a  cup 
of  milk  in  five  minutes  time.  Milk  is  used  in  the 
culinary  department  as  a  basis  for  cream  soups, 
vegetables,  sauces,  pastry  and  ice  creams.  Different 
milk  employed  in  alimentation  are  :  cow,  goat, 
mares,  ewe  and  reindeer.  Sterilized  milk  is  milk  re- 
duced to  the  consistency  of  cream  by  evaporating  in 
vacuum  and  then  thoroughly   sterilized. 

To  keep  fresh  milk  from  decomposing  put  65  grains 
bicarbonate  of  soda  to  one  quart  of  milk.  After  certain 
preparation  of  cream  and  milk,  butter  and  cheese  are 
made  in  every  part  of  the  world.  The  Russian  makes 
Kumyss  and  brandy  with  mares  milk.  The  Turks  make 
their  caimak  or  cream  with  milk  of  ewes. 

OIL    (Huile) 

Oil  replaces  butter  in  certain  countries.  It  is  ex- 
tracted from  fruits,  grain  seeds  and  plants.  The  best 
oil  comes  from  olives,  and  the  best  producing  countries 
are  Nice,  France,  California  and  Lucca,  Italy. 

—  443  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

The  second  quality  of  oil  is  made  from  walnuts,  hazel- 
nuts, almonds,  sesame,  peanuts,  flaxseed,  cotton,  poppy 
seeds  and   colza. 

Always  use  the  first  quality  oil  in  everything  edible. 

To  prevent  oil  from  becoming  rancid,  put  in  acid 
suflophenique  2%, 

PERPETUAL   VINEGAR    (Vinaigre    Perpetual) 

Buy  a  small  keg  of  "mother"  vinegar.  Draw  a  few 
quarts  and  make  aromatic  vinegar.  Replace  quantity 
taken  out  by  wine  or  cider-  Close  keg  with  a  piece  of 
linen.    Keep  in  cellar  40  to  50  degrees  Fahr. 

How  to   make  divers  aromatic  vinegar. 

Tarragon  Leaves  1  lb.,  6  qt.  vinegar,  15  days. 

Celery,  celery  seeds  1  lb.,  5  qt.  vinegar,  8  days, — 
strained. 

Hunter  Style,  Elderflowers  1  ounce,  fresh  juniper 
seeds  10  ounces,  savory  1^4  ounces,  vinegar  3  qt.,  let 
stand   15   days,   strain   and   filter. 

Aromatics,  Slice  5  heads  of  garlic  and  20  shallots,  bay 
leaves  10,  Cloves  20,  Salad  burnett  2  ounces,  mint  1 
ounce,  balm  14  ounce,  crushed  pepper  i^  ounce,  coarse 
salt  7  ounces,  vinegar  10  quarts,  let  stand  40  days,  stir 
occasionally,   filter,  put  in  bottles. 

PRESERVES    (Conserves) 

Different  methods  of  conserving  are:  The  dessication 
of  fruits,  vegetables  and  meats,  the  smoked,  dried  and 
cooked  fruits  put  in  alcohol,  the  juice  of  meats  and 
fruits,  such  as  loaves  and  tablets;  the  jams,  marmalades 
and  jellies;  pickled  meat,  fish,  vegetables  and  butter. 
Jellies,  grease  and  oils  are  conserved  in  vinegar,  sugar 
and  alcohol,  and  must  be  tightly  closed  so  no  air  can 
penetrate  The  best  method  of  conserving  is  the 
Appert  system,  which  is:  boiling  of  the  cans  or  steam- 
ing  of   the   jars.      The    method    of   to-day    is    the    refri- 

—  444  — 


PRESERVES 


gerator.  All  articles  put  in  the  refrigerator  should  be 
absolutely  fresh.  Experts  should  be  named  by  the 
Board  of  Health,  to  inspect  all  food,  to  see  that  it  is 
fresh    before    putting    in    cold    storage. 

Appert  System 

Cook  or  scald  the  meat,  vegetable  or  fruit,  put  in  a 
bottle  well  corked  and  tie  with  a  string.  Put  in  a  large 
pot  with  hot  or  cold  water.  Let  boil  from  10  to  30 
minutes  according  to  the  substance.  Put  straw  around 
the  bottles  in  boiling,  so  they  will  not  crack. 

Preserved  eggs   (CEufs  conserves) 

The   perfect  conservation  of  eggs  is  not  yet  known. 

The  method  most  employed  is:  Cooked  in  lime  paraffin, 

silicate  of  soda,  or  refrigerator. 

Preserved  by  Coction,  Dip  very  fresh  eggs  2  minutes 
in  boiling  water,  let  cool  immediately;  keep  in  sand 
in   a   cool   place. 

Preserved  in  lime  water,  Quick  lime  2  lbs.,  30  quarts 
water,  put  eggs  in  jar,  dissolve  lime  in  water,  so  that 
all   of   the   eggs   are   covered   over   with   the   solution. 

Preserved  in  Silicate  of  Soda,  Put  eggs  in  jar,  cover 
with  solution  of  silicate  of  soda  and  w^ater,  let  stand 
in  solution  10  minutes,  then  take  each  egg  separately 
and  put  between  two  sticks,  when  dry  turn  over  and 
brush  with  the  solution.     Keep  on  husks  of  grain. 

Preserved  in  Refrigerator,  latest  style.  Put  boxes  In 
cold  storage,  or  break  the  eggs  in  a  can  or  in  a  solu- 
tion of  salicylate  of  soda,  or  the  yellow  of  eggs  dried. 

Preserved   Olives,  green   or  ripe. 

Put  6  per  cent  of  wood  ashes  and  equal  quantity  of 
slack  lime,  let  olives  stand  48  hours,  change  the  water 
every  24  hours  for  10  days,  then  in  the  following  pickled 
composition,  which  is:  12  quarts  water,  1  pound  coarse 
salt,  fennel,  bay  leaves,  coriander;  let  boil  1  hour,  strain. 
Put  olives  in  this  composition  when  it  is  cold.  The 
olives  can  be  eaten  after  15  days.  Olives  put  in  a  jar 
with  olive  oil  and  garlic  for  3  or  4  days  are  very 
appetizing. 

—  445  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Preserved   Vegetables    (Conserve   de    Legumes) 

Whole  Artichoke,  Trim,  rub  with  lemon,  scald  in  boiling 
salt  water  5  minutes,  drain.  Put  in  can  with  oil  or 
water,   close  tight,  let  boil   15   minutes. 

Bottom  Artichoke,  Turn,  rub  with  lemon  quickly,  boil 
10  minutes  w.  lemon  juice  and  salt,  put  in  can  with 
same  coction,   or  butter,  boil  10  minutes. 

Asparagus  (Asperges),  Cut  same  size,  peel  and  wash, 
put  in  salt  boiling  water  1  minute,  then  in  cold 
water  for  5  minutes,  then  fill  can  and  cover  with 
same  coction.  Put  in  cold  water,  and  take  out  after 
first  ebulition. 

Beets  (Betteraves),  Choose  young  beets,  do  not  trim, 
wash  well,  cook,  then  peel,  fill  can  with  same  coctioa 
or  salt  water.     Boil  15  minutes. 

Chestnuts  (Marrons),  Peel,  do  not  break,  put  in  syrup 
20  degrees,  cook  slowly  until  syrup  is  32  degrees,  re- 
peat every  day  until  chestnuts  are  ready,  at  least  8 
or  10  days,  cover  with  boiling  syrup  and  then  reduce 
syrup  2  degrees  each  day.  Glaze  with  vanilla  cooked 
sugar. 

Chestnut  Puree  (Puree  de  Marrons),  Peel,  cook  in 
water,  drain,  strain  in  fine  sieve.    Let  dry,  put  in  box. 

Cucumbers  (Concombres),  Whole  or  cut  in  two,  take 
out  seeds,  put  in  jar  with  salt,  vinegar,  tarragon, 
whole  peppers,  onions  and  cloves,  or  salted  only. 

Gherkins  (Cornlchons),  Wash,  put  in  salt  1  day,  stir 
occasionally,  fill  jar,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  small 
onions  and  tarragon,  keep  in   cool  place. 

Gumbo  or  Okra  (Gombo  or  Bamia),  Whole  or  cut,  fill 
can  with  salt  water,  boil  15  to  30  minutes,  according 
to  size. 

Hop  Shoots  (Jets  de  Houblous),  Break,  do  not  cut, 
clean,  cook  in  boiling  water  with  plenty  of  lemon 
juice,  or  citric  acid.  Fill  can  with  coction,  and  let 
boil  10  to  15  minutes,  according  to  size  of  can. 

Mushrooms  (Champignons),  Peel  fresh  mushrooms,  put 
in  lemon  juice  and  water,  then  cook  w^ith  butter  and 
salt  quickly  3  minutes.  Put  in  can  or  bottle  with 
coction,  then  boil  15  minutes. 

—  446  — 


PRESERVES 


Green  Peas  (Petit  Pois),  Choose  fresh,  small  green 
peas,  all  the  same  size.  Put  1  quart  peas  in  a  casse. 
role  with  lYz  quarts  of  water  and  i^  ounce  of  salt, 
put  peas  in  only  when  water  boils.  Large  peas  toil 
7  minutes,  medium  6  minutes,  small  5  minutes.  Pre- 
pare following  solution:  carbonate  soda,  salt,  water 
and  sugar,  let  boil.  Fill  bottles  or  cans,  and  pour 
solution  on  when  cold.  Close  tight,  put  in  cold  water, 
and  let  boil  16  min.  for  quarts,  and  12  min.  for  pints. 

Green  and  Sweet  Peppers  (Pimentos),  Green  peppers, 
empty  the  top  and  put  a  layer  of  salt.  Sweet  peppers, 
fried  in  olive  oil,  peel,  put  in  can  or  bottle  and  cover 
with  same  oil  close  tight,  then  let  boil  10  minutes. 

Small  Onions  (Oignons),  Peel,  put  in  cold  water  with 
lemon  juice  and  salt,  scald  5  minutes,  drain.     Put  in  a 

jar  w^ith  white  vinegar  and  small  pimentos. 

Spinach  (Epinards),  Peel,  boil  5  minutes,  put  in  cold 
water,  then  in  can  with  salt  water,  and  let  boil  15 
minutes. 

String  Beans  (Haricot  vert),  Peel  , scald,  larg  2  min., 
medium  1%  min.,  fine  1  min.,  put  in  cold  w^ater,  then 
in  can  or  bottle,  fill  w.  solution  made  of  salt  and 
water.  Let  boil  10  to  20  min.,  take  out  after  first 
ebullition. 

Tomatoes  (Tomates),  Peel,  take  out  the  seeds,  cook, 
put  in  can  with  coction,  let  boil  20  min.  Puree  tom^ 
atoes,  strain,  reduce,  put  in  can  or  bottle,  close  tight, 
let  boil  20  minutes. 

Tomatoes,  green  (Tomates  vertesi),  same  preparation 
used  for  gherkins. 

Truffles  (Truffes),  Clean  and  brush,  put  in  can  w.  salt, 
cook  in  cold  water  ly^  to  3  hours  according  to  size. 
Keep  cool  in  same  water  w.   sherry  or  madeira. 

Fish  in  Oil 
Sardines    or    Herrings,    Clean,   cut   off   head,   fry   in  oil, 
range  in  box,  close,  boil  5  minutes.    All  other  fish  10 
to  15  minutes  according  to  size  of  can. 

Salt   Fish    or   in    Brine 

Clean,  range  in  box  or  keg  alternate  w.  salt  or  divers 
brine  w.  aromatic  herbs. 

—  447  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

HOW   TO    MAKE    SOAP    (Savons    mou    et   dur) 

Save  all  of  the  grease  from  cooking,  clarify,  and  you 
have  your  daily  common  soap. 

Composition,  hard  soap:  1  qt.  water  for  13  ounces 
of  lye,  dissolve,  add  w.  6  lbs.  grease,  warm  and  melt, 
pour  in  a  suitable  mould.  Comp.  soft  soap:  2  galls, 
water  for  13  ounces  of  lye,  boil,  dissolve,  add  6  lbs. 
grease  and  1  gall,  water,  boil  slowly  until  the  soap  is 
transparent,  add  9  galls,  hot  water  and  stir  all  together. 

JAVEL  WATER 

Composition:  13  ounces  of  lye,  dissolve  w.  10  galls, 
water  and  2  lbs.  washing  soda. 

SYRUP   OF   FRUITS    (Sirops   de    Fruits) 

syrup  flavored  w.   different  sorts  of  fruits. 

Use  any  kind  of  fruit,  and  proceed  in  this  manner: 
Increase  or  reduce  the  amount  of  sugar,  according  to 
the  juice  of  the  fruit  you  use.  Composition:  Choose 
very  ripe  fruit,  crush  and  let  repose  in  basin  for  24 
hours,  then  press  the  juice  out.  For  2  quarts  of  juice 
1/^  pound  sugar  or  more,  i/^  stick  of  vanilla.  Macerate 
for  1  month  in  demijohn  or  small  barrel,  let  draw  slowly 
until  clear,   then  filter  through  paper. 

RASPBERRY    SYRUP    WITH    VINEGAR 

This  syrup  is  used  for  dysentery  and  is  anti-choleric. 
Crush  raspberries  with  vinegar,  according  to  quantity. 
For  2  qts.  of  juice  add  4  lbs.  of  sugar,  let  stand  15 
days,   then  bottle  and   close   hermetically. 

SYRUP  OF   ROSES  AND  VIOLETS 

Choose  roses  or  violets,  highly  perfumed.  Composi- 
tion: 2  lbs.  petals,  2i/4  qts.  of  boiling  water.  Put  petals 
in  a  silver  or  enamel  vase,  pour  boiling  water  on,  close 
tight,  let  macerate  18  hours,  strain  in  fine  cloth,  then 
press  quickly,  let  stand  4  hours,  always  tightly  closea. 
Take  out  of  vase,  and  add  for  every  2  lbs.  of  infusion 
3%  lbs.  of  white  sugar  candy,  then  sugar  and  the 
infusion  together  in  the  vase,  and  do  not  let  evaporate, 

—  448  — 


MISCELLANEOUS 


then  put  in  bain-marie,  and  let  warm  slowly  until  sugar 
is  dissolved,  take  out,  let  cool,  always  keeping  tightly 
closed.  Put  in  dry,  clean  bottles  and  cork  well,  then 
place  in  a  closet,  where  there. is  no  light,  nor  any  noise. 
The  rose   syrup   can   be   sligthly  colored  with   carmine. 

COLD   SYRUP   (Sirop  a  froid) 
For   uncooked   sugar   syrup   use   2    lbs.    of   sugar    and 

1    Qt.    water,   which   makes    34    degrees    syrup. 

Hot   same   quantity,   makes   32   degrees   syrup.     Same 

w.  iy2  lbs.  sugar  and  i^  qt.  of  water  makes  22  degrees. 

syrup. 

SUGAR  AND   ICING,  how  to  make    (Sucre  et  Fondant) 
Cooked   sugar  39  degrees.     Work  on  marble  slab  w. 
acetic  acid.    Work  with  palm  of  the  hand,  add  coloring, 
flavoring  or   chocolate   the   last   moment. 

ROYAL   ICING 

Use  icing  sugar  and  white  eggs,  beat  well.  Duck 
eggs  are  preferred,  as  they  make  a  whiter  icing.  Cooked 
icing:  1  lb.  sugar  cooked  37  degrees,  add  4  whipped 
whites  of  eggs. 

TEA    (The) 

Green  tea  is  more  stimulating  than  black.  It  pro- 
duces wakefulness  and  cramps  in  the  stomach.  It  is 
an  energetic  stimulant  and  should  be  used  moderately. 
In  cold  countries  like  England,  Holland,  America  and 
Russia,  tea  replaces  wine  by  its  powerful  stimulating 
qualities.  The  Chinese  prepare  tea  to  perfection  and  for 
them  it  is  a  national  secret. 

Black  Tea 
Pekoe  or  Pak-ho,  Pekoe  d'assam,  Pekoe  orange,  Con- 
go, Koong-foo,  Pouchou  Paou-chung,  S'ouchon  Seaou- 
chung.  Tea  Bohea,  Wood-e  of  Fokien,  Bovi-bou  of  Can- 
ton, Oolong,  English,  in  fusion  w.  boiling  water  5  to 
10  min.   according  to  strength  you  desire. 

Green  Tea 

Hyson  He-chun,  Poudre  a  canon,  Choo-cha,  Imperial 
Hyson  Schoulang,  Hysoon  Junior,  Yu-tseen,  Tonkay  tun- 
he.  Hyson  skin. 

—  449  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

WATER  (L'Eau) 
Iced  or  cold  water  taken  in  summer  aids  the  diges- 
tion, but  it  is  not  prudent  to  drink  if  one  is  perspiring. 
Warm  water  is  effervescent  and  produces  vomiting. 
Hot  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  lemon  juice  or 
sugar,  acts  upon  the  digestive  organs  and  kills  the 
germs.  But  no  matter  in  what  form  water  is  taken, 
it  must  be  potable.  Water  is  an  efficient  promoter  of 
normal  action,  of  universal  life.  Of  its  wonderful  hear- 
ing virtues — of  which  it  contains  a  large  proportion — 
is  probably  the  chief  instrumentality. 

TO  PRESERVE  WATER   (Conservation  de  I'Eau) 
The  most  simple  and  cheap  way  to  conserve  potable 
water  is   to   put  in   a   piece  of  charcoal,   according    to 
quantity. 

TO    CLARIFY    MUDDY    WATER 

(Clarification  de  I'Eau  Trouble) 

If  you   have  no  filter,   use   Vz    ounce   of   alum   to   100 

quarts  of  water;   the  water  will  become  clear  in  a  few 

seconds,  as  all  of  the  sediment  will  go  to  the  bottom. 

ARTIFICIAL    MINERAL     WATER     (Eaux   Artificielles) 

Dissolve  in  water,  salts  from  the  natural  springs  and 
sparkling  water. 

NATURAL    MINERAL    WATERS 
(Eaux  Minerales) 

Mineral  waters  are  divided  in  5  classes  such  as:  sul- 
phur, chlorate,  bicarbonate,  sulphate  and  ferruginous. 
Mineral  waters  not  classed  are:  alkaline,  natural  salts 
from  the  springs  and  iodures.  They  are  other  spring 
waters  not  classified.  In  the  Duchy  of  Nassau,  there 
is  a  natural  Seltzer  water  spring. 

YEAST   FOR   PASTES    (Levure   pour   Pates) 

When  yeast  can  not  be  obtained,  make  it  yourself 
in  this  manner:  farinaceous  potatoes  2  pounds,  4  ounces 
molasses,  %  pint  beer.  Boil  potatoes,  peel,  mash  w. 
warm  water,  add  molasses  when  fermentation  sets  in, 
then  beer,  stir.  Keep  in  warm  place,  ready  for  use  in 
24  hours.  This  yeast  is  good  also  for  bread.  (See  bread 
and  baking  powder.) 

—  450  — 


THE  VALUE  AND  LAWS  OF  HEALTH 

THE  VALUE  AND  LAWS 
OF  HEALTH 

(La  Sante) 
(By  the  celebrated  French  Dr.  Raspail.) 

Happiness  is  the  constitutional  and  only  legitimate 
product  of  every  organ  of  the  body,  every  faculty  of  the 
ni^ind,  every  element  of  our  being.  Pleasure  in  quaffing, 
luxuriantly  the  fresh  air  of  heaven  and  then  in  expend- 
ing the  vitality,  thus  obtained,  is  the  only  natural  func- 
tion of  respiration.  Benevolence  was  created  to  bless 
the  needy,  pour  the  oil  of  consolation  into  the  wounded 
soul,  avoid  causing  pain,  and  adorn  human  nature,  as 
well  as  to  render  the  giver  himself  also  happy,  it  being 
still  more   blessed   to  give   than  to   receive. 

Value  of  health 

Therefore  exceeds  that  of  anything  else  because  it 
imports  the  greatest  attainable  zest  and  relish  to  life 
and  all  its  blessing.  Nor  can  we  enjoy  life,  except  by 
its  instrumentality  and  in  proportion  to  its  vigor.  With- 
out it,  what  can  we  do  or  become,  or  enjoy?  When  de- 
sease  has  destroyed  appetite,  the  most  delicious  fruits 
and  food  only  nauseate;  yet  how  much  a  keen  appetite, 
consequent  on  excellent  health,  relishes,  them?  Well 
might  the  glutted  epicure  offer  the  beggar  boy  a  guinea 
for  his  morning's  appetite.  The  rich  invalid  is  poor 
beca.use  he  can  not  enjoy  his  possession,  yet  the  healthy 
are  therefore  rich,  because  their  fund  of  life  and  cap- 
abilities of  being  happy  are  great.  Those  who  have 
alvt^ays  enjoyed  health,  little  realize  its  uses,  or  value. 
As  we  measure  time  by  its  loss,  so  we  rarely  estimate 
the  blessings  of  health  till  it  declines.  Oh.  I  would  give 
my  all — all  the  world  if  mine — for  the  repossession  of 
that  health — life — I  have  carelessly  and  wantonly 
squandered,  and  that  without  having  received  any  value 

—  451  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

in  return  for  this  choicest  gift  of  heaven.  Then  what 
consuina,te  foolishness  to  trifle  with  health  as  almost 
all  do  now?  Esau's  folly  was  wisdom  in  comparison 
with  those  who  carelessly  give  away  a  lifetime  of  vigor 
for  one  of  feebleness — who  even  barter  life  itself  for 
some  momentary  indulgenco.  Let  then  the  preservation 
of  health  be  the  great  concern,  the  paramount  business 
of  life,  as.  it  is  the  perfection  of  wisdom  and  the  great 
instrumentality  of  enjoyment.  Since  health  consists  in 
the  normal  and  vigorous  action  of  all  the  physical 
functions,  its  preservation  of  course  consists  in  their 
preservation  and  its  restoration  in  their  restoration. 
"Meat  gives  force  and  strength." 

Brute  force  it  does,   but  of  this   men   has   relatively 

too  much  already,  as  we  shall  soon  show.  "Would  you 
then,"  it  is  farther  objected,  "have  us  abstain  from 
flesh,  and  thus  become  as  pusillanimous  as  the  Hin- 
doos?" 

But  are  the  meat  eating  Indians  and  Laplanders  so 
very  forcible?  What  have  they  ever  accomplished — 
what  triumph  ever  achieved  other  than  with  the  scalp- 
ing knife  and  the  tomahawk?  If  meat  alone  gives  force 
one  Indian  would  master  two  pale  faces  whereas  one 
white  man  is  equal  to  a  score  of  red  ones.  The  former 
eat  less  meat,  yet,  under  every  disadvantage  has  driven 
the  latter  back  and  back  again,  farther  and  still  farther 
upon  the  setting  sun,  till  they  bid  fair-foul?  to  exterm- 
inate his  race.  Admitted  that  meat  gives  force,  yet 
mark  the  kind  of  force  it  imparts.  Analogous  to  that 
of  the  tiger  and  wolf — force  to  dare  and  kill  rather 
than  to  do. 

Does  the  lion  accomplish  so  much  more  than  the 
horse?  Or  is  the  wild  bull  so  extra  tame  and  feeble? 
Do  not  both  the  strongest  and  the  fleetest  of  animals 
live  upon  vegetables?  The  elephant  and  rhinoceros 
eat  no  meat,  yet  their  muscular  power  a,nd  endurance 
far  transcend  those  of  the  lion  and  the  tiger.  The 
deer,  antelope  and  gazelle  live  on  herbage,  yet  distance 
all  flesh-eating  animals  in  the  open  chase.  Since,  there- 
fore, the  fleetest  and  the  strongest  of  animals  eat  no 

—  452  — 


HYGIENE,   DIET,    LONGEVITY 


meat,  must  man  eat  it,  or  be  weak  or  sluggish?  Or  to 
apply  this  principle  directly  to  man:  Is  the  Highland 
Scotchman,  who  was  brought  up  on  oatmeal,  and  tasted 
meat  no  oftener  than  the  moon  quartered,  so  very  in- 
efficient? Are  the  potato-fed  Irish  weak?  Can  our 
own  beef-gourmands  dig  or  carry  more?  Try,  you  meat 
advocates.  The  rice-fed  Chinese  will  outdo  "John  Bull" 
and  "Uncle  Sam"  except  in  shedding  blood.  So  will 
the  herbenious  inhabitants  of  the  Pacific  Isles.  Not 
that  animal  food  does  not  develop  muscular  strength. 
Carnivorous  animals  are  strong,  but  herbiverous  ani- 
mals are  stronger,  yet  have  less  propensity.  Hence 
since  meat  develops  propensity,  yet  it  is  not  necessary 
to  either  strength  or  force — since  it  animalizes  and  de- 
praves, and  thus  does  a  positive  damage,  but  not  a 
necessary  good — why  injure  ourselves  by  consumption? 

HYGIENE,   DIET,   LONGEVITY 

"Cuisine,    c'est   la    medecine;    c'est    la    mede- 
cine   preventive   la  meilleure" — J.   Michelet. 

Dieting  consists  in  abstaining  from  certain  foods,  and 
it  is  very  necessary  to  follow  a  hygienic  diet  in  certain 
diseases.  Every  mistress  of  the  house,  and  also  the 
cook  should  know  how,  and  what  to  do  in  an  emergency 
case. 

Meat  shortens  people's  lives  by  decades.  I  meaa 
that  people  who  wish  to  live  a  century,  must  not  eat 
meat — especially  the  highly  proteid  meats.  The  whole 
secret  of  perpetual  youth,  is  a  complete  supply  of  food, 
to  all  the  cells  of  the  body  combined,  with  ridding  the 
cells  of  all  waste  matter.  To  accomplish  this,  you  must 
cut  out  food  excess  proteids,  and  cut  down  cereals., 
including  bread,   and  eat  less  sodium  or  common  salt. 

Second:  eat  plenteously  of  food  containing  potassium 
salts.  You  will  find  them  in  all  kinds  of  salads.  Water 
cress  is  one  of  the  best  elixirs  of  life.  Consume  more 
organic  acids,  which  are  best  obtained  from  grapes, 
raisins,    oranges,    apples     and     citrons.     Acids,    remove 

—  453  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

waste  from  the  arteries,  soften  them,  and  reopen  the 
blood  vessels.  Any  man  showing  signs  o^  old  age, 
should  take  three  months  of  this  diet,  and  he  would 
become  young  again.  Lastly  eat  garlic  and  onions, 
the  greatest  intestinal  cell  antiseptic  in  the  world,  with, 
out  being  destructive  like  drugs.  (Read  each  article 
on  vegetables.)  They  will  cure  the  most  malignant 
skin  and  blood  diseases  known.  Two  ounces  of  garlic 
daily  is  the  greatest  preventative  of  old  age. 

Another  great  fault  of  mankind  is,  that  all  drink  too 
much.  I  do  not  mean  alcoholic  beverages,  but  too  mucn 
coffee,  tea,  milk,  besides  beer,  wine  and  spirits.  It  is 
not  what  is  drunk,  but  how  much.  Too  much  fluid 
lessens  a  man's  power  of  resistance.  For  instance  things 
growing  wet,  develop  rapidly  and  then  die.  Look  at 
the  water  lily.  Things  growing  in  dry  places  take  longer 
to  mature,  are  much  healthier,  and  live  longer.  Look 
at  the  oak.  The  same  principles  apply  to  human  beings. 
I  am  not  for  prohibition — I  believe  in  wine  and  beer. 
Every  man  and  woman  of  more  than  fifty  should  have 
a  glass  of  wine  daily;  it  dilates  the  capillaries  of  the 
body,  preventing  the  closing  of  the  blood  vessels.  A 
glass  of  beer  daily  helps  a  person  after  forty.  Hard 
drink  is  wholly  bad.  I  am  against  alcohol  in  any  form, 
for  any  one  under  forty;  it  is  unnecessary.  Getting 
intoxicated  once  a  month  does  not  hurt  according  to 
Raspail,  the  great  French  doctor,  eating  the  greatest 
steak  once  a  week  does  not  hurt — but  the  steady  drinker 
and  meat  eater  wears  down  the  body's  vitality,  fills  hla 
cells  with  waste  matter,  and  hardens  the  arteries. 
Georges  Clemenceau,  the  "Old  Tiger  of  France",  owes 
his  wonderful  mentality  and  activity  to  his  diet  of 
vegetables  and  milk,  and  in  going  to  bed  early,  and 
arising  early. 

So  it  is  very  necessary  to  follow  a  practical  diet,  to 
aid  or  cure  certain  diseases,  in  following  the  se  different 
culinary  preparations. 

FEVER  AND   BRONCHITIS    (Fievre  et  Bronchites) 

The  general  rule  for  fever  and  bronchitis  is  to  take 
all  aliments  in  liquid  form,  rgularly  and  in  small  quan^ 

—  454  ~ 


HYGIENE 


titles.  The  patient  can  be  served  the  following  ali- 
ments: Chicken  bouillon,  beef,  mutton  or  oyster  broth. 
The  white  of  an  egg  beaten  and  mixed  with  orange 
juice  or  lemon,  or  egg  beaten  with  milk  or  water. 

DIABETES   (Diabtes) 

Until  now  medical  science  has  not  discovered  any 
cure  for  diabetes,  and  it  is  only  the  kitchen  diet  that 
will  aid  or  cure  the  patient.  One  can  use  the  following 
aliments:  Raw  or  cooked  oysters  in  water,  all  kinds  of 
fresh  or  salted  fishes,  in  oil;  all  meats  with  the  excep- 
tion of  calf's  liver,  mutton,  tripe,  ham  and  sausage.  One 
can  eat  moderately  venison  or  chicken  without  any 
sauces.  Bouillon  of  beef,  mutton,  chicken,  without  any 
flour,  rice  or  any  substance  containing  starch.  Vege- 
tables to  be  used:  cabbage,  cauliflower,  asparagus, 
spinach,  mushrooms,  tomatoes,  lettuce,  chicoree,  olives 
radishes,  cucumbers,  onions,  turnips  and  celery.  Bread 
and  cake  in  any  style  should  be  prepaired  with  a  specia* 
flour  gluten  soya,  without  corn  or  flour.  Almonds,  nuts, 
oranges,  lemons,  cherries,  strawberries  and  raspberries, 
these  last  three  should  be  eaten  moderately.  Coffee, 
tea  and  milk  can  be  taken  but  without  any  sugar. 
French  red  wine  of  first  quality  can  be  taken  as  an 
appetizer  or  after  the  meals.  Beer  is  absolutely  for- 
bidden.    Drink  Seltzer  water.  Spa  and  Vichy  and  milk. 

Do  not  eat  these  fruits  and  vegetables:  Chestnuts, 
potatoes,  rice,  beets,  carrots,  parsnips,  dried  beans  or 
green  peas,  in  fact  anything  containing  starch. 

DYSPEPSIA,    DIARRHOEA,   GASTRIC,    CATARRH, 

ASTHMA    (Diarrhee,    Dyspepsia,    Gastrite, 

Catarrhe,  Asthme) 

The  treatment  of  all  these  diseases  depends  upon 
hygiene  and  green  vegetables.  One  can  use  the  follow- 
ing aliments:  Soup  of  beef,  chicken,  mutton,  oysters, 
rice,  barley,  tapioca  and  vermicelle.  Meat,  such  as 
boiled  calf's  brains,  sweetbreads,  boiled  or  roasted,  beei, 
mutton,  chicken  boild  or  roasted  without  gravy,  turkey, 
squabs   and   other   birds    cooked   in   the   same   manner; 

—  455  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

fish,  such  as  mackerel,  perch,  trout  boiled  or  roasted, 
oysters  raw  or  cooked,  eggs  raw  or  soft  boiled.  Vege^ 
tables  such  as:  asparagus,  spinach,  green  peas,  beans, 
potatoes  boiled  or  baked,  carrotS;  lettuce,  cress  without 
any  vinegar.  Farinaceous  food  such  as:  rice,  sago, 
corn,  tapioca,  vermicelle,  stale  bread.  Dessert  such  as; 
blanc-mange,  tapioca  or  rice  pudding.  Fruits  such  as: 
oranges,  lemon,  raw  or  baked  apples  and  grapes,  com- 
pote of  peaches,  apricots,  prunes,  pears  and  cherries. 
Fat  aliments  such  as:  butter,  cream,  pure  olive  oil. 
Beverages  such  as:  drink  pure  milk  or  water,  prin- 
cipally between  meals,  tea,  coffee  and  mineral  waters, 
Vichy  and  Appollinaris.  Absolutely  forbidden:  soup 
of  rice,  fried  aliments  of  any  kind,  pork,  veal,  salted 
meat,  liver,  kidneys,  duck,  goose,  sausage,  crab,  lobster, 
preserved  fish  or  salted,  salmon,  sardines,  celery,  corn, 
radishes,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  potatoes,  beets, 
and  salads,  pastry,  nuts  or  cheese.  No  alcoholic  bever- 
ages, weak  tea  and  coffee.  For  diarrhoea,  eat  butter 
in  small  quantities.  Use  port  wine  or  cognac  in  small 
quantiites  and  at  intervals. 

CONSTIPATION,   ANEMIE   AND    LEUCORRHEA 

The  greatest  attention  should  be  given  to  the  regular- 
ity of  the  intestinal  organs.  But  as  there  are  so  many 
different  kinds  of  constipation,  nearly  every  case  has 
a  different  treatment.  To  obtain  a  good  result,  one 
should  not  take  any  medicine,  but  follow  a  strict  diet. 
For  Anemia:  wholesome,  nourishing  food  which  can  be 
digested  easily,  sunshine  and  hygienic  are  the  best  cures 
for  anemic  persons.  The  diet  consists  of:  soups  of 
chicken,  mutton,  oysters,  tapioca;  meats:  beefsteak, 
lamb,  roast  mutton,  brains,  boiled  sweetbreads,  chicken, 
pigeon,  turkey  roasted  or  boiled;  Fish,  oysters.,  pre- 
paired  in  any  style  such  as:  mackerel,  perch,  and 
trout;  raw  or  soft  boiled  eggs;  Vegetables:  asparagus, 
spinach,  sorrel,  celery,  onions  cooked,  green  peas,  tom- 
atoes, carrots,  turnips,  cauliflower,  lettuce,  water  cress i 
Farinaceous  food;  tapioca,  vermicelle,  bread  made  of 
corn  or  wheat;  Dessert:  sorbet,  blanc-mange,  honey, 
rice    pudding,    tapioca;    Fruits:    lemon,    oranges,    bakea 

—  456  — 


HYGIENE 


or  raw  apples,  grapes,  peaches  and  pears  compote, 
plums,  cherries  and  figs.  Fat  substances :  butter,  cream, 
olive  oil;  Beverages  between  meals:  milk  pure,  or  taken 
with  tea  or  coffee,  cider,  mineral  waters,  vichy,  appoli- 
naris,  poland,  lithia,  carlsbad.  Forbidden  aliments: 
chocolate,  strong  tea,  wine,  rice,  cheese,  alcoholic  be- 
verages in  any  form. 


GOUT,     RHEUMATISM,     KIDNEYS    AND     BLADDER 

(Goutte,    Rhumatime,    Reins    et    Vessie) 

These  diseases  are  very  painful  at  times.  The  chef 
cook  and  rich  peoples  are  generally  the  ones  that  suffer 
from  these  diseases.  All  excesses  in  all  pleasures 
should  be  immediately  stopped.  Eat  plain  nourishing 
food,  and  do  not  eat  any  greasy  substances,  abstain 
from  starchy  food  and  sugar.  Soups  of  meat,  rice  and 
vermicelle,  eat  vegetables  moderately.  Lean  meats, 
lamb  chops,  broiled  mutton,  chicken  roasted  or  broiled. 
Fish:  oysters  or  trout.  Eggs:  raw  eggs,  limited  quan- 
tity. Vegetables:  spinach,  green  peas,  potatoes,  turnips, 
cauliflower,  celery,  onions,  lettuce,  water  cressi  all  to 
be  eaten  without  vinegar.  Farinaceous  food:  a  little 
rice,  sago,  tapioca  or  vermicelle,  bread  made  of  wheat 
or  corn.  Dessert:  all  kinds,  raw  or  cookd,  without  sugar. 
Fruits:  oranges,  apples,  peaches,  plums,  all  to  be  eaten 
without  any  sugar.  Fat  substances:  only  butter. 
Beverages:  milk  or  Vichy  water  weak  tea  or  coffee 
without  sugar.  It  is  preferable  to  drink  with  the 
meals:  Vichy,  Appolinaris  and  Lithia.  Forbidden 
aliments  :  Fat  soups,  any  kind  of  fried  substances, 
hard  boiled  eggs,  pork,  veal,  turkey,  salted  or 
conserved  meats,  liver,  kidneys,  duck,  goose,  sausag-e*, 
shrimps,  salted  or  conserved  fish,  salmon,  sardines, 
mackerel,  radishes,  mushrooms,  asparagus,  dried  beans, 
tomatoes,  beets,  cakes,  nuts,  strong  tea  or  coffee,  alco- 
holic beverages,  cheese,  sorbets  or  cider.  I  recommend 
the  Zelner  Medecine  for  rhumatism.  It  can  be  had  at 
any  drug  store  or  address  the  manufacturer: 
W.    J.    Zelner,    333    Kearny    Street,    San    Francisco,   Cal. 

—  457  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

EPILEPSY   (Epilepsie) 

Breakfast:  Fresh  ripe  fruits,  cereals,  such  as  rice, 
boiled  eggs  or  omelette,  bread  and  butter,  biscuits.,  milk 
and  Vichy  water. 

Dinner:  light  soup,  meat,  chicken,  vegetables.  Meats: 
roast  beef,  chops,  beefsteak,  chicken.  Fish:  do  not  eat 
fish  and  meat  together  at  the  same  meal.  Vegetables: 
potatoes,  celery,  tomatoes,  spinach,  green  peas,  aspar« 
agusi,  lettuce,  rice  and  cucumbers.  Dessert:  jam,  pud- 
ding, sorbets.     Fruits:   ripe  and  fresh. 

Supper:  bread,  butter,  cereals,  compote  of  fruit,  milk. 
If  the  sick  person  works  a  great  deal,  they  can  eat  eggs 
and  oysters.  Absolutely  forbidden:  fried  aliments  of 
any  sort,  heavy  or  highly  seasoned  food,  pastry,  and 
alcoholic  drinks,  tea,  coffee  or  any  aliment  difficult  to 
digest. 

SPERMATHOREE,    GONORRHEE 

All  alcoholic  drinks  are  strictly  forbidden  for  people 
suffering  from  these  diseases.  Also  abstain  from  drink- 
ing tea  or  coffee.  Milk  is  the  best  drink  in  these  cases. 
Do  not  eat  any  fat,  or  highly  seasoned  food.  The  nourish- 
ment should  consist  of  aliments  such  as:  rice,  beans, 
bread  made  of  wheat  and  corn. 

ALIMENTATION    FOR   CHILD 

The  new  born  baby  only  nurses  and  sleeps,  and  only 
attention  is  paid  to  that  during  the  first  few  months. 
The  habits  of  the  child  should  be  regulated  early.  As 
the  child  grows  older,  it  should  not  sleep  so  much  ii* 
the  day  time,  but  the  sleep  at  night  should  be  the  same. 
As  the  mother  is  the  principal  doctor  for  her  child, 
she  should  pay  attention  to  its  food.  Naturally  children 
prefer  cakes  and  candies  to  soup  and  bread.  They 
should  be  fed  regularly  and  at  a  certain  hour.  Never 
give  a  child  any  spiced  food,  nor  too  much  sugar;  the 
food  should  contain  more  salt  than  sugar.  Children 
shold  be  taught  to  use  a  spoon  in  the  right  hand,  and 
the  fork  in  left,  the  bread  to  be  taken  in  tlie  right  hand. 
A  knife  should  never  be  given  to  a  child  before  the  age 
of  6  or  7  years.    The  mother  should  pay  great  attention 

—  458  — 


HYGIENE 


to  the  physical  education  of  the  child,  and  table  hygiene. 
A  well  bred  child  or  children  will  always  give  a  good 
deal  of  pleasure  to  the  parents.  The  celebrated  French 
writer  J.  J.  Rousseau  says  of  children:  If  a  mothei 
wishes  to  spoil  her  children,  let  her  give  them  every- 
thing they  ask  for,  and  then  it  is  the  mother  who  will 
suffer  afterwards. 

POISONING   (Empoisonnement) 

Ptomaine  poisoning  is  caused  frequently  by  mussels, 
oysters,  crabs,  fish,  pork,  and  ice  cream;  and  very  often 
mushrooms. 

First:    Take  away   promptly   the   poison. 

Second:  To  take  the  poison  out  of  the  system  give 
the  patient  a  vomitif,  130  grains  of  ipecacuanha  in  a 
glass  of  water.  For  purgatif  1  tablespoonful  of  magne- 
sia in  a  glass  of  water  with  a  little  sugar.  Give  an 
enema,  IV4,  quarts  of  warm  water  and  2  tablspoonsful 
of  kitchen  salt.  If  the  person  does  not  die  immediately 
from  poisoning,  then  life  can  be  saved  with  this  remedy. 
If  you  have  not  any  of  these  medecines  in  the  house 
give  the  patient  milk  with  the  white  of  eggs  to  drink 
and  an  anemea  with  warm  water  and  salt. 

INDIGESTION     (Indigestion) 

Indigestion  is  caused  by  food  not  being  well  prepared, 
but  sometimes  by  having  taken  cold,  or  by  some  great 
moral  suffering",  m  cases  of  indigestion,  take  camomille 
tea,  flavored  with  orange  water.  If  this  method  does 
not  stop  the  indigestion  take  a  vomitif. 

INTOXICATION    (Ivresse) 

It  is  said  that  to  prevent  intoxication,  take  a  quarter 
of  a  glass  of  pure  olive  oil  or  sweet  almond  oil,  be- 
fore eating.  The  best  method  of  all  is  to  drink  moder- 
ately, but  sometimes  it  depends  upon  the  disposition  of 
the  stomalch,  and  one  glass  of  champagne  might 
intoxicate.  Black  coffee  and  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia  in  Seltzer  aids  intoxication,  as  it  arouses 
the  nervous  system.  Give  the  following:  water 
4  ounces,  essence  of  peppermint  %  ounce,  liquid  am- 
monia  12    drops.     Mix,    and    give    every    quarter    of    an 

—  459  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

± 

hour,  two  or  three  times;  or  sugar  and  water  with  a  few 
drops  of  ammonia,  or  Bromo  Seltzer. 

THE  DIGESTION    (La   Digestion) 

Fortunately  for  the  civilization  of  today,  we  have  fire 
to  cook  our  food.  The  advance  made  in  culinary  art 
has    transformed    everything. 

It  is  to  this  science  that  civilization  owes  its  re- 
gulated meals,  which  is  the  regime  of  good  digestion. 
Medical  science  has  classified  certain  aliments,  by  its 
degree  of  digestibility,  comparing  the  human  body  to 
a  wheel,  which  the  fonctionment  accepts  and  refuses 
certain  matters.     Think  well  ,and  you  will  digest  well. 

Necessary  time  for  completing  digestion  of  certain 
aliments.  (Temps  necessaire  pour  la  digestion  complete 
des  principaux  aliments) : 

Hours  Hours 

Beef 3  to  4      Oysters    2 

Ham 2  to  3      Eggs,  cokked   3  to  4 

Lamb .2^2      Eggs,    raw    2 

Mutton    3      Bread 3  to  4 

Pork    5      Cereal 1  to  2 

Sweetbreads   2      Cheese 3  to  4 

Tripe 11/2      Milk    2 

Veal  3  to  4V^      Vegetables 3  to  4 

Chicken   2^2   to  4      Fruits    2   to    4 

Goose   4   to   5      Pastry    3   to   4 

Fish  11/2  to  21/2 

THE      MARKET      (Le     Marche) 

For  the  cook  or  housekeeper,  the  provisions  are  the 
fundamental  stone  of  the  kitchen. 

The  quality  of  the  products  depends  upon  the  success 
of  excellent   cooking. 

Why?  Because  there  is  no  medecine  in  good  cooking. 
All  meats,  chicken,  large  or  small  game,  vegetables, 
fruits,  butter  for  pastry  should  be  fresh  and  of  the  finest 
quality. 

There  are  no  four  seasons  of  today,  as  from  the  be- 
ginning of  the  year  to  the  end,  all  products  are  to  be 
found  in  the  hot  house  or  the  refrigerator. 

—  460  — 


THE   MARKET 


How  to   select   provisions  at  the    Market 

POULTRY — Domestic  turkeys,  chicken,  duck,  geese, 
etc.  are  divided  into  two  classes:  young  and  old,  the 
young  ones  are  distinguished  by  their  soft  feet,  soft 
cartilage  at  the  tip  of  the  breast  bone,  the  skin  is 
moist,  smooth  and  fine-textured.  Spring  chicken  is  best 
to  roast,  broil  or  saute,  old  ones  are  only  boiled  or 
^Hbraised. 

Cock   turkeys   are   preferable  to  hen  turkeys.    Young 
turkeys    have    smooth    dark    legs,    pliable    breast    bone 
f  cartilage  and  are  plump.    Young  turkeys  are  best  roast- 
[  ed  or  broiled,  old  ones,  boiled  or  braised. 

Always  select  plump  firm  geese,  the  fat  should  be 
white  and  clear. 

As  to  ducks,  the  wings  should  be  tender,  the  fat 
more  yellow,  and  the  webbing  of  medimn  texture,  not 
rough  as  in  the  case  of  old  ducks  and  geese. 

Young  pigeons  and  squabs  have  pink  legs,  and  light 
red  flesh  on  the  breast,  the  old  ones  are  dark.  Squabs 
are  young,  tame  pigeons  are  generally  raised  for  market 
purposes.  They  are  as  large  as  old  ones,  but  are  cover- 
ed with  pin  feathers,  and  in  quality  resemble  young  ones. 

GAME — Partridge,  quail  and  grouse  have  full  breasts, 
dark  legs  and  yellow  beaks. 

Venison  is  dark  red,   with   some  white   fat. 
^      Hare,    rabbits    and    opoossum     have      smooth      sharp 
claws,   tender  ears   and  paws,   and   short  necks. 

How  to  select  fish 

The  eyes  of  fresh  fish  are  bright,  the  gills  red,  the 
flesh  very  firm,  the  scales  bright  and  gleaming,  and  the 
entire  fish  life-like.  Fresh  fish  is  practically  odorless, 
although  sea  fish  always  more  or  less  have  an  odor 
of  the  sea. 

Fish  should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  otherwise  it  Is 
indigestible  or  poisonous.  Therefore  always  buy  fresh 
fish.  Unscrupulous  dealers  dip  tainted  meats  or  fish 
in  salicylate  and  then  sell  it  as  fresh.  Always  be 
careful    in   your   buying. 

—  461  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


SAMPLE  OF  MARKET  LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 
BEEF 


Butt    

Corned,  Navel  . 
Corned,  Plate  . 
Corned,  Rump  . 

Fillets    

Hearts 

Kidneys   

Legs 

Loin,  Flat  Bone 

Loin,   Hip 

Loin,  Short  ... 
Marrow  Bones  . 

Palates 

Ribs 

Round  

Rump 

Shin     .   

STioulder 

Tails 

Tongues,  Fresh 
Ferraline 


LAMB    (Spring) 

Legs   

Racks,  STiort  Cut  .  .  .  . 

Racks,  Twelve  Ribs   . 

j  Saddles,  Fore 

i  Saddles,  Hind 

I  Whole  Lamb 


LAMB    (Yearling) 

Breasi     

Feet   .    ...    

Fries 

Legs 

Racks,  Short  Cut  .  .  . 
Racks,  Twelve  Ribs  .  . 
Saddles,  Fore 


Sold 


Wanted 


—  462  — 


SAMPLE   OF  MARKET  LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


Saddles',  Hind 

Shoulders 

Blade   

'Sweetbreads       

Whole  Lamb 

MUTTON 

Brains 

Breast    

I  Feet   

j  Kidneys 

I  Legs   

I  Racks,  Short  Cut  .    . 
I  Racks,   Twelve  Ribs 

j  Saddles,  Fore 

[Saddles,  Hind 

I  Shoulders 

I  Whole  Mutton 

I  VEAL 

I  Brains   

I  Breast 

I  Feet   

Fore  Quarters 

[Haslets 

[Heads 

I  Hind  Quarter 

I  Kidneys 

I  Livers 

j  Lungs 

[Racks 

Shoulders 

I  Spinal  Marrow 

I  Sweetbread 

[Tails 

Tongues  


PORK  AND   PROVISIONS 

Bacon  

Bologna   

Ears   

Feet,  Pigs 


463  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


On    Hand  Articles 

Ham,  Corned 

Ham,  Fresh 

Ham,   Smoked 

Ham,  Westphalia  .   .  . . 

Head 

Lamb   Tongues 

Lard   

Larding   Pork 

Loin   

Mesentery    

Pork  Tongues 

Salt  Pork,  Breast  .   .  . . 

Sausages  

Sausages,   Frankfort   . 

Sausages,  Meat 

Shoulders   

Smoked  Beef 

Smoked  Beef  Tongues 

Tails 

Tenderloin 

Tripe    

Udder 


Sold 


Wanted 


POULTRY 
Capons   

Chickens,  B.,  IM  lbs. 
j  Chickens,  S.  2V2  lbs. 
j  Chickens,  R.,  3  lbs.  . 
I  Chickens,  Winter  .  . 
j  Ducks,  Mongrel  .... 

I  Ducks,  Tame 

Ducklings   

I  Fowl 

Geese   

I  Geese,  Mongrel  .... 

I  Goslings 

j  Guinea  Fowl 

j  Peacock 

I  Pullets 

I  Pigeons,  Stall  Fed  .  . 


—  464  — 


SAMPLE  OF  MARKET   LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold         Wanted 


i  Squabs 

I  Turkeys 

;  Turkeys,   Ex 

j  Turkeys,   Spring  . 
i  Suckling  Pig  .... 


GAME 


Antelopes    . 
Bear 


I  Birds,  Lark 

I  Birds,  Rail,  Sora  . 
I  Birds,   Reed,   Rice 

I  Buffalo 

i  Divers    


j  Ducks,  Black  Head 

I  Ducks,  Brant 

j  Ducks,  Canvas  Back 

Ducks,  Mallard 

Ducks,  Red-head 

Ducks,   Ruddy 

Ducks,  Teal  B.  Wing 

Geese    

Grouse   

Hare,  American 

Hare,   European   

Partridges    

Pheasants   

Plovers,  Bay 

Plovers,  Grass 

Plovers,  Yellow  legs,  large. 

Plovers,  Yellow  legs,  small. 

Possum 

Ptarmigans 

Quais   


465 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


Rabbits 

Snipe 

Snipe,  English 

Snipe,  Sand 

Squabs,  Wild 

Squirrel 

Turkey,  Wild 

{Venison,  L.  Saddle  . 
j  Venison,  S  and  Legs 
i  Venison,  Whole  .   . . . 
Woodcock 


VEGETABLES 

Artichokes   

Artichokes,  Jerusalem  .    , . 
Asparagus  

Asparagus  Tips  

Beans,   Lima 

Beans,  String 

Beets 

Brussel  Sprouts 

Carrots    

Carrots,  New  .    

Cabbage  

Red    Cabbage    

j  Cauliflower 

I  Celery  Knobs   or   Celeriac, 

j  Celery  S'oup 

I  Chayotte   

I  Corn,  Green 

I  Cranberries    

I  Cucumbers   

I  Egg  Plant . 

j  Garlic 

I  Helianti 

j  Herbs,  Dry 

I  Herbs,  Chervil 

I  Herbs,  Chives 

Herbs,  Mint 

,  j  Herbs,   Parsley 


466 


SAMPLE  OF  MARKET  LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


I  Herbs,  Tarragon 

I  Kohl-rabi 

. I  Leeks   

I  Melon,   Musk 

I  Mushrooms,  Cultivated 

I  Mushrooms,   Field 

I  Okra 

Onions 

Onions,  Small 

Oyster   Plants 

Parsnips 

jPeas   

[Peppers  

j  Potatoes 

j  Potatoes,  New 

I  Potatoes,  Sweet 

j  Pumpkin 

I  Radishes   

I  Radish,  Horse      

j  Rhubarb    

!  Salad,   Barbe 

j  Salad,  Celery 

j  Salad,  Chicory 

Salad,   Corn 


I  Salade,    Endive    .  .  . 
i  Salad,  Escarolle  .  . 
I  Salad,  Lettuce  .   . . : 
I  Salad,  Romaine  .   .  i 
I  Salad,  Water  Cress 

i  Sliallots 

I  Sorrel 

.Spinach 


Squash,    Summer    (white) , 
[Squash,   Summer   (yellow) 
I  Squash,   Winter,   Hubbard, 
[Squash,   Winter,   Marrow.. 

j  Tomatoes 

i  Turnips 


467 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


FRUITS 

Apricots    

Apples    

Bananas  

Barberries 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Chestnuts 

Currants,    Black    or    Red 

Ginger   

Gooseberries 

Grapes,  Concord 

Grapes,   Delaware 

Grapes,   Hot   House    . .  .  . 

Grapes,  Malaga 

Grapes,  Rebecca 

Green   Gages   

Huckleberries 

Lemons    

Melon,  Water 

Melon,  Musk 

Nectarines 

Oranges  

Peaches  

Pears   

Pineapples 

Plums,  Prunes 

Pomegranates 

Quinces 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 


BUTTER,    EGGS,    ETC. 

Butter  No.  1    

I  Butter  No.  2 

I  Butter  No.  3    

i  Margarine 

I  Cream  No.  1   

I  Cream  No.  2   

IMilk  .   ...: 


—  468  — 


SAMPLE   OF  MARKET  LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


Buttermilk 
Eggs  No.  1 
Eggs  No.  2 
E,ggs  No.  3 


FISH 

Bass,  Black  or  Lake  , 

Bass,  Rock , 

Bass,   Sea 

Bass,   Striped , 

Blackfish 

Bluefish 

Carp 

Clams,   Hard 

Clams,  Soft 

Codfish   

Codfish,   Dry 

Codfish  Tongues  ... 

Crabs,  Hard 

Crabs,  Meat 

Crabs,  Soft  Shell  .   . 

Crawfish   

[Eels 

I  Flounders 

I  Frogs   

j  Frost  Fish 

j  Grouper 

I  Haddock 

I  Haddock  Finnan  .  . 
I  Halibut,   6  to  12  lbs. 

[Herring 

[Herring,  Bloaters  .  . 
I  Herring  Salt 

Herring,  Smoked  .  . . 

iKingfish    

I  Lamprey 

[Lobsters . . . 

[Mackerel 

[Mackerel, 


Salt 


Mackerel,  Spanish 


—  469  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


Mussels 

Oyster  Crabs 

Pompano 

Perch  

Pike  or  Pickerel   . 
Pike  Wall  Eyed  .   . . 

Porgies 

Prawns 

Red  Snapper  

Salmon    

Salmon,  Frozen  .   .  . 
Salmon,  Kennebec 
Salmon,  Smoked  .   . 
Salmon,  Trout  .   .  .  . 

Scallops 

Sliad 

Shad  Roes 

Sheepshead  

Shrimps     

Skate 

Smelts 

Sole,  English 

Spot  Fish 

Terrapin 

Trout,  Brook   

Turbot,  American  . 
Turbot,    European   . 

Turtle,  Green 

Weakfish 

Whitebait 

Whitefish 


I  SALT   FISH 

I  Anchovies 

Codfish,  dried 

]  Codfish,  Tongue  .   . , 

]  Herring 

j  Herring,  pickled  .   .  . 

j  Mackerel 

Prawns   .- 


•r-j4> 


—  470  — 


SAMPLE   OF  MARKET   LIST 


On    Hand 


Articles 


Sold 


Wanted 


Salmon 

Salmon   Bellies   

Sounds  

SMOKED   FISH 

Eels    

Haddock,  smoked  or 

Finnan  Haddie  .... 
Halibut,  smoked  .... 
Herring,  smoked  .... 
Herring,  bloaters  .  .  . 
Herring,  kippered  .  . . 

Mackerel 

Salmon 

Shad 

Sliced  Abalone   

Sturgeon  

Whitefish    


SHELL  FISH 

Abalone 

Clams,  hard 

Clams,  soft 

Crabs,  hard 

Crabs,  soft 

Crawfish 

Lobsters 

Mussels    

Oysters 

Scallops 

Shrimps 


MISCELLANEOUS 

Bass  tips 

Crab  oyster 

Frogs   

Milts 

Roes   

Terrapin 

Turtle,  green 

Shrimps     


471  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

ABSTRACT     OF     GAME 
AND     FISH     LAWS 


(According  to  change.)  For  law  in  full  see  Penal  Code. 
For  commercial  fishing  law  see  Market  Fishing 
Abstract. 

Deer,  Aug.  15  to  Sept.  14.  No  sale  of  venison.  Per 
season,   2   bucks. 

Elk  Antelope  and  Mountain  Sheep,  forbidden,  posses- 
sion of  meat  a  felony. 

Rabbit,  Cottontail  and  Brush,  Nov.  15  to  Jan.  31.  15 
per  day,   30   per  week. 

Tree  Squirrels,  Sept.  1  to  Jan.  31.     12  per  season. 

Sea  otter,  beaver,  forbidden.     $1,000  fine  for  sea  otter. 

Bear,  black  and  brown,  Nov.  1  to  March  15.  Se  Ab- 
stract Law. 

Fur  bearing  mammals,  Nov.  1  to  March  IB.  See  Ab- 
stract Law. 

Duck,  Geese,  Jack  Snipe,  Mud  Hen,  Oct.  16  to  Jan.  31. 
See  Abstract  Law. 

Quail,  valley  and  desert,  Nov.  15  to  Jan.  31.  15  per 
day,  30  per  week. 

Quail,  mountain,  Sept.  1  to  Oct,  31  and  Jan.  1  to  31. 
10  per  day,  20  per  week. 

Sage  Hen,  Aug.  15  to  Sept.  30.     4  per  day,  8  per  week. 

Dove,  Sept.  1  to  Nov.  30.     15  per  day. 

Grouse,  Sept.  15  to  Oct.  14.     4  per  day,  8  per  week. 

For  various  birds  forbidden,  see  Abstract  Law. 

Trout,  April  1  to  Sept.  30.  50  fish  or  10  pounds  or  over 
per   day,   during  winter  season   5   fish   per  day. 

Trout  (Golden),  June  30  to  Oct.  1.    20  per  day,  5  inches. 

White  fish,  Aug.  1  to  Oct.  30.     See  Abstract  Law. 

—  472  — 


ABSTRACT    OF   GAME    AND    FISH    LAWS 


Black  Bass,  May  1  to  Nov.   30   (no  sale).     25  per  day, 

7  inches.     Hook  and  line  only. 
Perch,  Sunfish  and  Crappie,  May  1  to  Nov.  30.     25  per 

day,  hook  and  line  only. 
Striped  Bass,   Shad,  all  year.     See  Abstract  Law. 
Salmon,   all   year.      See  Abstract  Law. 
Catfish,   Aug.    15   to   May   14.      Closed    season   only   for 

commercial  fishing. 
Crabs,  Nov.   15  to  July  30.     See  Abstract  Law. 
Abalones,  red,  March  1  to  Jan.   31;   green,  pink,  black. 

May  1  to  Jan.  31.     See  Abstract  Law. 
Clams,    Sept.    1   to  April   30.      See  Abstract   Law. 


LICENSES 


Hunting:    Resident    $1.00,   non-resident   110,    aliens    $25. 

Licenses:    Year  from  July  1  to  June  30. 
Angling:  Resident  $1.00,  non-resident  $3.00,  aliens  $3.00. 

License  year  from  Jan.  1  to  Dec.  31. 
Trapping:    Citizens  $1.00,  aliens  $2.00. 

Licenses   can  be   secured  from  Fish  and  Game   Com- 
mission, county  clerks  and  license  agents. 


—  473  -- 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


PANTRY    AND    STORE    ROOM    LIST 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Alphabets 

pkgs. 

Alcohol,    Denaturated 

gal. 

Anchovies     (in 

oil) 

bot. 

Anchovies    (in 

bulk) 

lbs. 

Anchovies    (Paste) 

jars 

Apricots 

cans 

Asparagus 

cans 

Artichoke    Hearts    (Cal.) 

cans 

Artichoke    Hearts     (Imp.) 

cans 

Bacon 

lbs. 

Baking  Powder 

cans 

Barley    (Pearl) 

lbs. 

Bar  le  Due 

jars 

Beans     (Lima) 

lbs. 

Beans   (Pea) 

lbs. 

Beans    (Red) 

lbs. 

Beans    Am.     (String) 

cans- 

Beans    French 

(String) 

cans 

Beef,    Chipped 

cans 

Beer,    Cooks 

bot. 

Bloater   Paste 

bot. 

Brandy    (cooking) 

qts. 

Brown   Bread 

cans 

Butter 

lbs. 

Capers 

bot. 

Catsup 

gal. 

Catsup 

bot. 

Caviar 

cans 

Cepes 

cans 

Charcoal 

sacks 

—  474  — 


PANTRY    AND    STORE   ROOM    LIST 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Cheese    (American)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Brie)  lbs. 

Cheese   (Edam)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Camembert)  lbs. 

Cheese   (Roquefort)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Armsby)  Qts. 

Cheese    (Oregon)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Fannesan)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Swiss)  lbs. 

Cheese    (Monterey    Jack)  lbs. 

Chocolate  cans 

Chow   Chow  bot. 

Chops  Frills  Boxes 

Chutney  bot. 

Clams  cans 

Clam    Juice  cans 

Claret    (Cooking)  qts. 

Coal  tons 

Cocoa  cans 

Cocoanut  pkgs. 

Codfish  lbs. 

Coffee  lbs. 

Soups  cans 

Corn  cans 

Corn    Beef    Hash  cans 

Corn   Starch  pkgs. 

Crackers   (Graham)  box 

Crackers    (Soda)  box 

Crackers     (Water)  box 

Crackers    (Bent)  box 

Crackers    (Ginger    Nuts)  box 

Cranberry   Sauce  jars 

Cream  cans 

Cream  Tartar  cans 

Crisco  lbs. 

Curry    Powders  bot. 

Currants  pkgs. 


—  475 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Danish    Liver    Paste 
Doilies,     Paper 

can 
box 

Eggs 

Extracts    Divers 

d074. 

bot. 

Force 

Flour 

Flour     (Buckwheat) 

F'rankfurters 

pkgs. 

sacks 

lbs. 

cans 

Gelatin 

Gherkins    (sweet) 
Gooseberries 
Grape   Nuts 

pkgs. 
jars 
cans 

pkgs. 

Ham' 

Ham,    Virginia 

Herring,    Kippered 

Hominy 

Hominy    Grit 

Horseradish 


lbs. 

lbs. 
cans 
cans 

lbs. 

bot. 


India    Relish 
Irish    Oot   Meal 

bot. 
cans 

Jam    (A 
Jelly    (. 

L&sorted) 
•Assorted) 

jars 
jars 

—  476  — 


PANTRY    AND    STORE    ROOM    LIST 


Amount  COST 


TOTAL 


Ki'aut   and   Pork 


Lard 

Lobster    Paste 

Loganberries 


Macaroni 
Macaroni 
Mango    Peppers 
Mango   Melons 
Marmalade 
Mush,    Pettijohn's 
Mush,    Oatmeal 
Mushrooms 
Mustard     (Eng-lish) 
Mustard   (French) 
Mayonnaise 
Matzo 


Noodles 


lbs. 
cans 
cans 


pkgs. 
box 
jars 
jars 
jars 

pkgs. 

lbs. 

cans 

cans 

bot. 

gal. 

pkgs. 


PKJ 


Oil    (Cooking)  gal. 

Oil    (Olive)    De    Luxe  gal. 

Oil     (Olive)    Mayonnaise  gal. 

Oil    (Salad)  g-al. 

Okra  cans 

Olives     (Medium)  cans 

Olives     (Select)  cans 

Paprika    (Kitchen)  cans 

Paprika    (Table)  cans 

Peaches  cans 

Peaches    (special)  jars 

Pearline  pkgs. 


477 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Peas  cans 

Peas   (French)  can* 

Peas    (Split)  lbs. 

Fears  cans 

Picallili  jars 

Pinmoney  jars 

Pineapple  cans 

Pepper  lbs. 

Pickles    (mixed)  bot. 

Pickles    (sour)  bot. 

Pickles    (sweet)  bot. 

Pickles    (Dill)  gal. 

Pimientos  cans 

Pork   and    Beans  (large)              cans 

Pork   and    Beans  (small)             cans 

Prunes    (Cal.)  lbs. 

Puree    de    Fois    Gras  cans 


Raisins 

pkgs. 

Raspberries 

cans 

Rice 

lbs. 

Rice   Flour 

lbs. 

Rum'    (cooking) 

qts. 

Sage 

Sago 

Salt    (celery) 

Salt    (Ivory) 

Salt     (kitchen) 

Salt    (rock) 

Sardelles 

Sardines 

Sardines     (Booth's) 

Sauce    (Anchovy) 

Sauce    (A.   No.   1) 

Sauce     (Chili) 


cans 

lbs. 

cana 

pkgs. 

lbs. 

lbs. 
cans 
cans 
cans 

bot. 

bot. 

bot. 


—  478  — 


PANTRY    AND    STORE   ROOM    LIST 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Sauce 
Sauce 
Sauce 
Sauce 
Sauce 
Sauce 
Sherry 


(Harvey) 
(H.    P.) 
(Mandalay) 
(Pepper) 
(Tabasco) 
(Wos.) 
(cooking-) 


Shrimps 

Silver    Dip 

Silicon 

Shredded   Wheat 

Soap    (kitchen) 

Soda,   Sal 

Shell  Crabs 

Spaghetti 

Spag-hetti 

Sugar    (cube) 

Sug-ar    (cube,    Western) 

Sugar    (granulated) 

Sugar    (powdered) 

Succotash 

Syrup,    Maple 

Syrup,    Maple    (i^-gal.) 

Syrup,    New    Orleans 


bot. 

bot. 

bot. 

bot. 

bot. 

bot. 

qts. 

canfe 

cans 

cans 

pkgs. 

cakes 

lbs. 

pkgs. 

cans 

pkgs. 

lbs. 

pkgs. 

lbs. 

lbs. 

cans 

bot. 

cans 

cans 


Tapioca 

lbs. 

Tea 

lbs. 

Tapioca 

lbs. 

Tea 

lbs. 

Tomatoes   (larg-e) 

cans 

Tomatoes    (small) 

cans 

iooth    Picks    (wood) 

pkgs. 

Tooth    Picks     (quill) 

pkgs. 

Truffles 

cans 

Tuna 

cans 

—  479  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Vanilla 

Extract 

bot. 

Vermicelli 

pkgs. 

Vinegar     (Acid) 

gal. 

Vinegar    (Cider) 

gal. 

Vinegar    (Wine) 

qts. 

White    Wine    (cooking) 

qts. 

-i — 

HOUSE    SUPPLI 

ES 

Borax 

cans 

Brooms 

each 

Brushes    (hair) 

each 

Brushes    (nail) 

each 

Brushes    (scrubbing) 

each 

Brushes    (sink) 

eacn 

Cleaner 

(powdered) 

cans 

Cleaner 

(powdered) 

lbs. 

Combs 

each 

Coal   Oi 

1 

gals. 

Disinfec 

tant 

gals. 

Feather 

Dusters 

each 

T^ogwoo 

d 

cords 

Lye 

cans 

Matches 

gross 

Mops 

each 

Paper    (toilet) 

pkgs. 

Paper    (Towels) 

pkgs. 

Paper    (wrapping) 

rolls 

Poker    Chips 

box 

Polish    (furniture) 

bot. 

Polish     (metal) 

cans 

Sapolio 

cakes 

Soap    (bath) 

gross 

Soap   (toilet) 

gross 

—  480  — 

PANTRY    AND    STORE   ROOM   LIST 


Amount 


COST 


TOTAL 


Twine    (cotton) 

balls 

Twine    (Manila) 

balls 

Lamp   Dip 

bot. 

Candle    Base    Tungsten 

Frosted   15   watt 

each 

Tungsten    25    watt 

each 

Tungsten   40   watt 

each 

Tungsten    60    watt 

each 

Tungsten    100    watt 

each 

Tungsten    200    watt 

each 

Tubular    Bulbs 

each 

Blacking    (shoe) 

cans 

Barmen's  Coats    (new) 

each 

Waiters'   Coats    (new) 

each 

Aprons     (new) 

each 

Doilies    (new) 

doz. 

Napkins   (new) 

doz. 

Table    Cloths,    small    (new) 

each 

Table   Cloths,   large    (new) 

each 

Table  CTloths,  banquet   (new) 

each 

Pillow   Cases    (new) 

each 

Sheets    (new) 

each 

Face  Towels   (new) 

each 

Bath   Towels    (new) 

each 

Glass   Towels    (new) 

each 

Hand  Towels   (new) 

each 

Checks 

pkgs. 

Store  Room    Deliver 

pkgs. 

Store    Room    Requisition 

pkgs. 

Miscellaneous 

t                                   ■ " 

—  481  — 


GANCEL's    Culinary    encyclopedia 


BILL    OF    FARE    (Menus) 

A    FEW    MODELS  OF   BILL   OF   FARE 

It  is  impossible  to  arrange  exactly  any  bill  of  fare 
here,  because  every  hotel  or  restaurant  has  its  own 
style,  according  to  the  business  and  importance  of  the 
house-  To  facilitate  the  work  and  render  quick  service, 
the  name  of  the  dish  should  be  written  very  distinctly 
on  the  menu  or  card.  My  opinion,  and  also  the  opinion 
of  a  good  many  of  my  colleagues,  is  that  the  kitchen 
of  today  merits  more  respect  and  should  be  classed 
among  the  arts,  and  every  care  should  be  taken  to 
facilitate  the  daily  task  of  the  cook. 

Breakfast 

FRUITS 

Grape    Fruit    20  Sliced    Oranges    20 

Sliced  Bananas  with  Cream  -0  Preserved  Fruit  20 

Orange    Marmalade    20  Bar   le    Due    40 

Assorted    Jams    20  Strawljerries    and    Cream    25 

Stewed   Royal   Anne   Cherries    25  Stewed   Rhubarb    25 

Baked  Apple  20         Peaches  25  Prunes   20  Pears   25 

Apricots    25  Loganberries    20 

Coffee  and  Rolls  20  Tea  and  Rolls  20 

Cocoa  or  Chocolate  25 

CEREALS,   etc. 

Oat    Meal    or    Cracked    Wheat    with    Cream  20 

Force   with   Cream    20  Shredded  Wheat    20 

Milk   Toast   20  Cream   Toast   25  Rice   Cakes   15 

Corn  Cakes  15         Buckwheat  Cakes   15         Griddle  Cakes   15 
Buttered    Toast    10  Toasted    English    Muffins    10 

Waffles  15 

EGGS 

Boiled    (2)    25  Fried    25  With    Ham    or    Bacon    40 

Shirred    (3)    35  Poached    on    Toast   35 

Omlette   Plain   35  with   Ham   40  with   Tomatoes   40 

with  Fine  Herbs  40        with  Kidney  50        with  Oysters  50 
with  Asparagus   Tips   50  with   Chicken   Liver   50 

Matzo    Pancake    40 

—  482  — 


BILL   OF   FARE 


FISH 

Kippered   Herring   35  Striped    Bass    40 

Broiled    California  Mackerel,    Tomato    Sauce    35 
Finnan   Haddie   50  Sand   Dabs,    Meuniere    50 

STEAKS,    CHOPS 

Tenderloin   60  Breakfast   Sirloin    60 

Lamb   Chops   60  Mutton   Chops   50 

English   Mutton   Chop    60 
MISCELLANEOUS 

Corned   Beef   Hash   with   Poached   Egg   35 
Fried   Pork   Spare  Ribs,   Apple  Sauce   40 
Calf's   Liver  with   Onions  35 
Baked  Pork  and  Beans,   Boston  Style  30 
Country    Sausages    35  Nut    Sausages    35 

Fried   Ham   25  FVied   Bacon    25 

Spring    Chicken,    Broiled    or    Fried,    half    75 
SPECIAL 

Eggs  a  la  Benedict  60       Nut  Sausage,  Scrambled  Eggs  40 
Chicken   Hash,    Poached   Egg    65 

Business   Men's    Luncheon 

Celery  Olives  Radishes 

Consomme   Paysanne  Puree    Faubonne 

Boiled    Halibut,     Shrimp    Sauce,     Potatoes    Hollandaise 

or    Salamia   of    Guinea    Hens,    Chasseur 

Green  Peas  Potatoes  Rissoles 

Salad  de  Saison 

Pumpkin  Pie  or  Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

Mocha 

Special:    Grill   Room   Wagon 

Plat  du  Jour  60c 


Lunch    Special 


Consomme  Paysanne  15-25 
Shirred  Eggs,  Meyerbeer  50     Scrambled  Eggs,  De  Lesseps  60 
Poached  Eggs,   Nantaise   60  Omelette,   Italienne  75 

Boiled  Halibut,   Shrimp  Sauce   60-100  . 

—  483  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Hungaiian    Gulash    with    Spaetzel 60-100 

Veal   Cutlets,    Viennoise    75-125 

Salmis   of   Guinea   Hen   Legs,    Chasseur 60-10t> 

Broiled    Fork    Chops,    Lyonnaise    Potatoes     60-100 

Chicken    Croquettes    with    Asparagus    Tips    50-90 

Baba  au  Rhum   20  Gateau,   Moka  15 

French    F'astry    15 

Pumpkin   Pie   15  Green   Apple   Pie   15 

Lunch    (Ready    Dishes) 

Sori-el  Soup  30 

Shirred  Eggs,   Opera   60 

Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d' Hotel 

ESfCalopes   of  Veal,   Hunter   Style   75  Tripes,   Creole   50 

Slice  of  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Cabaret  90 

Mashed  Potatoes  25  Corn    on    Cob    30 

Baba  with   Sabayon   25  Apple   Tartlett   15 

Patisserie  Francaise  10 

Cheese  Fruit 

Coffee   with   Milk    25  Demi-tasse    15  With   Cream   20 

Afternoon    Tea    Suggestions 

TEA    3    to    5 

Chicken  Broth  and  Whipped   Cream,   25c 
Oyster    Cocktail,    25c  Oysters,    Half    Shell,    40c 

Artichoke    Heart    Stuffed    with    Caviar,    50c 
Crab  Salad  40  Canape  of  Sardellen,  25c 

Scalloped   Oysters   in   Cream',   35c 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Green  Peppers  on  Anchovie  Toast,  40c 

Creamed    Sweetbreads    on    Toast,    50 

Crab    Newburg,    60c 

Chicken   Salad,   30c  Oyster  Poulette,    50c 

Chicken   Sandwich,    25c  Ham    Sandwich,    15c 

Chicken    Salad    Sandwich,    25c 

Club   Sandwich,   40c  Fried   Egg   Sandwich,    20c 

Strawberry  Farfait  and  Whipped  Cream,   20c 

Cafe    Farfait    and    Whipped    Cream,    20c 

Neapolitaine   Ice   Cream,    20c 

Vanilla    and    Strawberry  Ice   Cream,    20c 

Roman    Punch,    20c  French    Pastry    (1),    10c 

Cup  Coffee  and  Cream,  lOc       Cup  Chocolate  and  Cream,  10c 

—  484  — 


BILL   OF  FARE 


Specialties     (with  explanation) 

MONDAY 

Minute   Steak   Saute,    Bercy 
Thin  Sirloin  Steak  Saute  in.  Butter,   flavored  with  Schal- 
lots,     ^Tiite  Wine     and     Glaced     Meat.      Garnished     with 
French   Cepes   and   Potatoes   Noisette. 

TUESDAY 

Sea    Food    a    I'Orientale 

Lobster,  Fresh  Shrimps,  Oysters,  Clams,  Green  Peppers 
and  F'resh  Mushrooms,  flavored  with  Sherry  Sauce  New- 
burg.     Served  in  Casserolette. 

WEDNESDAY 

Turkey   Hash,   Sam   Ward 

Breast  of  Turkey  cut  in  dice.  Served  in  Cream  with 
Green  and  Red  Peppers,  Fresh  Mushrooms;  Potato  Bor- 
dure;    Au    Gi^atin. 

THURSDAY 

Sweetbread    en    Cocotte,    Parisienne 

Braised,  Served  in  Cocotte  with  Fresh  Mushrooms,  French 
Peas  and  Sauce  Colbert. 

FRIDAY 

Spaghetti   a   la   Tetrazzini 

Spaghetti  in  Cream  with  thick  Julienne  of  Breast  of 
Chicken  and  Fresh  Mushrooms;  Parmesan  Cheese  au 
Gratin. 

SATURDAY 

Noisette  of   Lamb,   Gourmet 

Saute  in  Butter.  Dressed  on  Artichoke  Bottoms  with 
Gourm'et   Sauce.      Served   under  glass. 

Suggestions   for   Dinner  a   la   Carte 

Petite  Mai'mite,  Parisienne   20 

Creme   de   Celery,    Croutons   Souffles   30 
Filet  of  Bass,  Menagere  50     Broiled  Salmon  Maitre  d'Hotel  50 

Sandabs  Saute,   Meuniere  50 
Rack  of  Lamb   Jardiniere   75 

Chicken   Casserole,   Moderne   2.00 

—  485  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

Tranche  of  Sirloin  Saute,   Chasseur  75 

Casserolette  of  Sweetbreads,  Gourmet  60 
Royal  Squab,   Veronique  1.00 

Mig-non   of   Beef,   Massena   1.00 
Veal   Chops,   Florentine   50 

Breast  of  Chicken,   Pascal  1.25 
Coupe  Jacque  50 

Prime  Ribs  of  Beef  65 

Spaghetti,    Caruso    50  Spaghetti,    Italienne    45 

Cauliflower   25  Artichoke  Hollandaise   40 

New  Peas  40  Sweet  Potato,  Georg-ia  30 

Caramel  Custard  25 

Ice   Cream  30  Parfaits   40 

Demi   Tasse   15 

Dinner    Special    a    la     Carte 

Consomme  Royale-P'rintaniere   15-25 

Puree   Faubonne    15-25 
Baked  Rock  Bass,   Italienne  60-100 
Braised  Sugar  Cured  Ham',   Florentine   60-100 

Larded   Tenderloin   of  Beef,    St.    Germain   85-160 
Noisette   of   Lamb,   Massena   80-150 

Sweetbreads    Glac6    Faloise    90-179 
Squab  en  Casserole,  F'ermiere  100 

Bavaroise   aux  Marrons,   Creme   Chantilly   20 
Omelette    Souffle  au   Cognac    60  French   Pastry   15 

Red  Cherry  Pie  15  Green  Apple  Pie  15 

Menu      for    Table    d'Hote 

Choice    of 

Toke  Point  Oysters   on  Half  Shell 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Crab  Cocktail 
Choice    of 

Chicken  Okra 

Cream  of  Onion  in  Cup 

Chicken   Broth 

Ripe   Olives 

Salted  Almonds 

—  486  — 


BILL   OP  FARE 


Choice    of 

Filet   of   Sand   Dabs   Dugelere 
Lobster  Dewey  in   Shell 
Striped    Bass,    Marguery 

Choice    of 

Vol  au   Vent   of   Sweetbreads 
Braised   Celery   and   Beef   Marrow 

Choice    of 

Roast   Turkey   Stuffed    with    Chestnuts,    Cranberry    Sauce 

Fried   Squab   Chicken   in   Butter 

Roast   Suckling   Pig,    Apple   Sauce 

Celery  Victor 

Sweet  Potatoes  Risolle 

French  Peas 

Choice    of 

Frozen    Nesselrode   Pudding 

Cafe   Parfait 

Hot   Mince   Pie 

English    Plum    Pudding,    Hard    Sauce 

Special  Cakes 

Coffee 


Table   d'Hote 


Celery  Radishes  Green    Onions  Olives 

Consomme  Marie  Louise 

Filet  of  Sole  Mornay 

Hashed    Creamed    Potatoes 

Slice   Tenderloin    Saute,    Minute 

Asparagus  in  Butter 

Roast    Squab    Chicken   with    Watercress 

French  Pastry  Ice  Cream 

Cheese   and  Ci-ackers 

Demi  Tasse 
Wine— Red  or  White 

—  487  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Supper 


Little  Neck  Clams  30  Cotuits  35  Cape  Cods  35 

Buzzard   Bays   35  Oak  Islands   35 

Chicken  Consomme  40  Consomme  Excelsior  40 

Beef  Consomme  30      Strained  Okra  in  Cup  40    Clam  Broth  30 

Leaf,  Florentine  75  Crab  Meat  a  la  Manners  60 

Salad,  Henry  IV.     75 

Yorkshire  Buck  70  Stuffed  Deviled  Crabs  60 

Welsh   Rarebit   50  Canapes,   Lorenzo   40 

Frogs'  Legs,  Pavlova  75  Crab  Meat,  Mornay  80 

Scotch  Woodcock  50        Golden  Buck  60        Lobster,  Sherry  80 
Shell   of    Sweetbread,    Gourmet   1.00 

Supreme  of  Chicken,   Mordkin  1.50 

Heart  of  Filet  of  Beef,  Iman  Bayeldi  1.00 

Kernel   of   Lamb,   Paloise   75 
Spring  Turkey  3.50  Scotch  Grouse  4.00 

Mallard   Duck   4.50  Guinea   Hen   2.50 

Squab   Chicken   1.25  Royal    Squab   1.25 

Plover  1.25        French  Partridge  3.00        English  Pheasant  3.50 
Aspic  of  Ham'  60  Pate  de  foie-gras  90 

Boneless   Squab   Stuffed   with  Foie-gi'as  1.50 
Galatine  of  Capon  60 
Lamb   75  Chicken   2.50     1.25  Roast  Beef   60 

Patty  in  Crust  60  Artichoke  6(y 

Salads:    Sweetbread    1.00  Countess    40  Lakme    60 

Lobster   90  Romaine   30  Chicken   90  Crab   Meat   90 

Coffee  Parfait  40  Biscuit  Tortoni  40 

Iced  Pudding,   Nesselrode   50  Hazelnuts  Mousse   40 

Charlotte,   Surprise  30  Royale,   Chantilly  30 

Savarin  with  Kirsch  30         Profiterable,  Alaska  60         Fruits 
French  Coffee,  demi-tasse  15  Turkish  Coffee  30 

—  488  — 


BILL   OF  FARE 


MENU  FOR  THANKSGIVING  DINNER 

FAMILY    STYLE 

Celery,    Radishes,    Green    Onions,    Olives 

Cream    of    Tomatoes    with    Bread    Crust 

Baked   Filet   of   Bass   Home   Made 

Farsley  Potatoes 

Roast    Stuffed    Turkey    with    Chestnuts 

Giblet   Gravy  and   Cranberry   Sauce 

Creamed   Onions,   Carrots  and   Peas 

Celery   Apple    Salad 
Mince    Pie,    Pumpkin    Pie,    Cheese 

Nuts,  Fruits,   Candy 
Cider    — :—    Wine    — :—    Coffee 


MENU    FOR    CHRISTMAS    DINNER 

FAMILY    STYLE 

Celery,    Olives,    Radishes,    Green    Onions 

Oysters  Cocktails 

Vegetable   S'oup 

Lobster  Newburg 

Roast    Stuffed    Goose    with   Apple    and    Raisin 

Candy  Sweet  Potatoes,   Baked  Squash 

Brussels   Sprouts  with  Butter 

Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad 
Plum'  Pudding-  with  Rum  Sauce 

Moka  Cake 

Cheese    — : —    Assorted   Fruits 

Cider        — :—        Wine        — :—        Coffee 


489  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 

A    LA    CARTE    BILL 

FRUIT 

Apples  10  Banaras  20.  Sliced  30  Orenge   15,  Sliced  20    Juice  ?5 

Strawberries  with  Cream  35  Grape  Fruit.  haK  20.  Supreme  60.  with  Bar  le  Due  75 

See  Breakfast  Bill  Tor  other  Fruif  and   Preserves 
RELISHES 

Fresh  Beluga  Caviar,  per  pers-'n  1  00  Assoned  Hors  d'Oeuvres.  per  person  50 

Anchovies  on  To^st  50  Cinape  Fresii  Caviar  75  Canape  Francis  50 

Lyonnaise  Saus3.p;c  25  Smoked  Salrrioii  30  Major  Grey's  Chutney  25 

Special  Califcrnia  Ripe  Olives  30  Gr?rn  Olives  25  Radishes  20 

Antipasto  35  Pickles  !5  Green  Onions  15  Bismarck  Herring  40 

Canape  Domestic  Caviar  40  Pascal  Celery  25-40  Lobster  Cardinal  60 

OYSTERS  AND  CLAMS 

Little  Neck  Clams  30  Cotuits  30  Bluepoints  30  Cocktails  5c  extra 

Lobster  Cocktail  60  C:ab  Meat  Cocktail  50.  Ravigotte  60 

SOUPS— Per  Person 

Consomme  fhot)  en  Tas:e  25  Oxtail  25-'10                      Puree  of  Peas  25-40 

Green  Turtle  (for  one)  50  Noodle  Scup  25-<0                      Mock  Turtle  30-50 

Puree  of  Tomatoes  25-40  Tomato  Consomme  (hot)  25 

Chicken  or  Clam  Broth  25,  Bellevue  30  Onion  Gratinee  (20  min.)  ^0-60 

Oyster  Stew  35  Chicken  Gumbo  25.  Strained  en  Tasse  (hot)  25 

FISH 

Broiled  Whitefish  60  Lake  Trout  50  Salmon  SO  Filet  of  Sole  SO 

Deviled  Crabs  40  Broiled  Shad  Roe  and  Bacon  60  Mountain   Trout  60 

Finnan  Kaddie  50  Broiled  Live  Lobster  30-1.75  Lobster.  Ncwburg  90-1.75 

Crab  Meat  au  Grafin  60  -  Crab  Meat.  Maryland  90-1.75 

Silver  Smelts  50  Channel  Catfish  50 

SPECIALTIES 

Steak  a  la  Minute  with  Parisienne  Potatoes  1. 00  Wiener  Rostbraten  75 

Vienna  Paprika  Chicken  vvi'.h  Rice  1. 00-2. 00  Sweetbreads  with  Spaghetti  75 

Frog    Legs,   Pouletle   90-1.75  Wiener    Schnitzel,    Hoklein   60 

Chicken  a  la   King  90-1.75  Chafing  Dish  a  la  Brown   Palace  90-1.75 

Supreme  of  Chicken.   Fre<'.h  Mushrooms,  and  Virginia  Ham   1.25 
Broiled  Fresh  Mushrooms  on  Toast  55 

STEAKS.  CHOPS.  ETC. 

Sirloin  S'eak  for  one  75  Sirloin  Steak  with  Bacon  1.00 

Sirloin  Steak  for  two  1-25  Sirloin  Steak  for  thTe  2.25  SirloinSteak  for  four  300 

Club  Sirloin  Steak  for  five  4.00  Club  Sirloin  Steak.  Chateaubriand  5.00 

Extra   Club  Steak   for  six  6.00  Filet   Migncn,  plain   75 

Tenderloin  Steak  for  one  90  Tenderloin   Steak  for  two   1.50 

Tenderloin   Steak  for  three  2.25  Tenderkin  Steak   for  four  300 

Porterhouse  Steak  for  two  2  00  Porterhouse  Steak  for  three  3.00 

Porterhouse   Steak   for    four   4.00 
Lamb  Chops,  each  30      Lamb  Steak  75      Veal  Chops,  each  ^0     Veal  Cutlet,  plain  50 
Mutton  Chops,  each  40  Perk  Chops,  each  40  English  Mutton  Chop 

Salisbury  Steak  90  Hamburger  Steak  50  Broiled  Sweetbreads  60 

Croquettes  of  Sweetbread  50  Chicken  Crocuettes  with  Peas  50 

Chicken  Fricassee  75         Tripe,  Crecle  50         Trine.  Lycnnaise  50         Broiled  Tripe  40 

Broiled  Pig  Feet  35 
Brciled  Kidney  with  Bacon  60  Brown  Palace  Mixed  Grill  75 

Yorkshire  Rarebit   75  Vi/elsh   Rarebit   50  Golden   Buck  60 

Pork  Tenderloin  60 

GAimiTURES  (Per  Person) 

Bearnaise  25  Bordelaise  35  Mushroom.s  35  Onions  25  Bacon  25 

Plaiiktd  50  Stanley  25  Crecle  25 

COLD  MEATS 

Kalter  Aufschnitt  75-1.50  Sliced  Chicken  75 

Boned  Turkey  75             Smoked  Tongue  50  Rcast  Beef  65           Cold  Lamb  50 

Virginia  Ham  75                              Prsger  Ham  85  Westphalian  Ham  75 

—  490  — 


BILL   OF  FARE 


A    LA    CARTE    BILL 

SANDWICHES 

Ham  25  Corned  Beef  25         Tongue  25         Club  40         Sardine  30         Chicker.  35 

Turkey  and  Lettuce   10  Rcast  Beef  (cold)   35,   (hot)   SO  Tartare   40 

Pate  de  Foie  Gras  40  Caviar  50  Ham  and  Egg  30  Brown  Palac;  5G 

Lobster  .50  Steak  60 

POULTRY   AND   GAME 

Broiled  Chicken  80-1.50  Chicken  en  Casserole  2.25  Blanckefleur  S.  1  00 

Squab  Chicken  1.00,  en  Casserole  1.50  Squab  CO,  en  Casserole  1.00 

Breast  of  Chicken,  Virginia  Ham  1.00 

POTATOES 

New  Potatoes  in  Cream  25  Baked  15  Special  Baked  25  Boiled  10 

Lulu  25  Parisienne  30  Julienne  25  Au  Giatin  25-40  Lyonr.aise  25 

French  Fried  20  German  Fried  25  Hashed  Browrsed  25         Cottage  Fried  25 

Hashed  in  Cream  25  Mashed  15  Souffle  35  Olivette  35 

Sweet  Potatoes:     Boiled  15     Fried  25     Grilled  30     Southern  40 

VEGETABLES 

Aspar?eus  30  French   Asparagus   1.00  German   Asparagus   1  00 

Lima  Beans  20  French  Peas  35  Boiled  Onions  25  Spinach  in  Cream  25 

Spaghetti  or  Macaroni,  Italienne  25-40  Cauliflower  au  Gratin  30-50 

Stuffed  Green  Pepper  or  Tcrrato  25  Green  Peas  20  Fresh  Artichokes  35 

Haricots  Verts  35  Flageolets  35  Stewed  Tomatoes  25  Stewed  Corn  20 

Buttered  Beets  25  String  Beans  20  Brussels  Sprouts  30 

Pimientos  Mcrrones  35  Copes,  Bordelaise  35  Fohds,  Artichokes  50 

Broiled  Fresh  Mushrooms  on  Toast  65  Wax  Beans  20 

SALADS— Per   Person 

Fruit  Salad  en  Verre  50  Celery  40  Orange  and  Grape  Fruit  SO  Lettuce  25 

Potato  25  Tomato  25  Combination  35  Cucumber  25 

Asparagus  Tips  with  Egg  30  Chicken  75  Lobster  75  Russian  75 

Shrimp  60  Alligator  Pear  35  Crab  Meat  50  Artichoke  SO  Waldorf  SO 

Mayonnaise  10c,  Thousand  Island,  Bellevue  or  Roquefort  15c  extra  per  person 

DESSERT  AND  ICE  CREAM 

Pie  15.  a  la  Mode  25  Assorted  Cakes  25  Macaroons  25  Pound  Cake  15 

Omelet  with  Jelly  50         Alaska  for  one  75         Souffle  Vanilla  75         Peach  Melba  50 

Coupe  Arien  SO       Melba  SO       Omelet  Souffle  1.00-1.50       St.  Jacques  50       Parfaits  35 

Ice  Creams — Vsmilla,  Strawberry.  Coffee.  Tuui  Frutti,  Napolitaine  25 

Bar  le  Due  Jelly,  Red  and  V/hite  25 

For  other  Dessert  and  Ices  see  Dinner  Bill 

SHERBETS 

Lemon,  Cherry,  Pineapple.  Raspberry,  Orange  25 
CHEESEi— Per  Person 

Roquefort  25  Camembert  25  Swiss  25  American  25  Neufchatel  15 

Edam  25  Iowa  Cream  15  Sierra  15  A  la  Brown  Palace  25 

Imported  Individual  Camembert  in  Glass  35  McLaren's  Individual  Imperial  15 

COFFEE,  ETC. 

Coffee  for  one  IS,  for  two  25  Vienna  Melange  Frappe  20  Tea  20 

Chocolate  25  Cocoa  25  Milk,  per  bottle  IS 

Horlick's  Malted  Milk  (hot  or  cold)  25  Milk  and  Bread  or  Crackers  25 

Cream,  per  glass  25  Half  and  Half  20  Grape  Juice  15 

Postum  for  one  15,  for  two  25  Demi  Tasse  10  Bulgarian  Buttermilk  10 


Individual  portions  are  for  one  person  only. 
Room  service  5c  and  10c  per  portion  Chafing  dish  service  2Se 

—  491  •— 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY     E  N  C  Y  C  L  O  P  E  DI  Ai 

CARTE    DU    JOUR    LUNCH 

Cape  Sobi,  §Sf  uc  !Bolvi.b,  ^u^z,a^h:>  95ai^*  25      £itfcfe  S'lecfv*  25 
(SovtdOVM.'Hie  tapioca  50    30  ^zccvui  of  caufifCoM^ez^  60   35 

©vnefc-t,  tBaif»avi.vvc  50  ^'3<3^  cocotte,  Sllonaco  50 

8oft  ificfl  cra&^    1  00 
^t'Zck  aautc-,  SUcw-t^tc-ce  60   35  £o&;>l:ci^,  9Ievo&CT.<3  1  25    65 

elStoifeb  '^'^^acf^e^cf,  utaitte  6'fv6tcf  70    40 
SStai^cb  dVicPvC-H.  vuttfv  tice  3  00    1  50 

S^cep'jy  trott-ct5,  ^JoufetU  70    40 

Sriinccb  f  fet  of  ^eef,  S^fotiba  J  25    65 
SScefatcafv,  SSorbcfaiae-    95 

Sa-u-aagc^,  Gaitrovvovt'te  60    35 

ENGLISH  CHICKEN  GROUSE  2  75 
WOODCOCK  2  00  CHICKEN  PARTRIDGE  3  75        VENISON  i  25    65 

Scju.a&  chichavv]  25  Sgyptiavt  qwatf  I  00 

3li&i  of  &c-c|'  70  SprtM-g   faHi&  Svoa^t  ttitfietj   I  00 

cl'ioadt  cPvicficvt  2  50      Scjtia&  90       Spcin-<^  bucftfttKJ  3  00    1  50 

COLD  DISHES 

Cofb  oafvHotv,  taztaZ'  ia\A^c<:,  QQ    45 

Stti-ffeb  cgg>,  2Xot-vue>jiaM-  60  '^ruffCcb  ^iiipc-  1  15 

c)Sowe'Cc»»  5oi4-a&  cfiicficvi  in-  jc-Cf-u  1  50 

NEW  CORN  40 

SCctafveb  fe^o'^'on  potatoes  30  20       SJaficb  Hvaifvcb  potatoes  .30  20 
CBe'Ecz.'U  iw  creavw  50    30  eF^icb  ca(j  ptavit  40    25 

<Sau{iffo-K)ez,  tSofis^  60   35  Stcweb  tovnatoes  60    35 

Succotash  60  35    CtMi/Cz^toati.  aspat-aaw.*,  elCoffavtbaises'ce  60  35 

HOT-HOUSE  GRAPES  i  25 
CANTALOUPE  50  ALLIGATOR  PEARS  60  HANGOES  40 

^i^ai^'v^^^ciow  40  Sliagara  oz  '■Dcfavuare  gzapes  40 

cH:uc^fe&c^^ies  40  2ft^.ms   40  !Dcac^es  50 

Stanfew  pubbivia,  ox-anae  saw.ce  ■vuttfi  z\\,yw    40 
35a&as  vuit^  itiM't  40        tUics  :  cfCi/tcftfe6crti^,  €lppfe,  S-ustaz-b  25 
Coi'Mpote  of  fz-uits  50    ^cach  sfaott  ea^c  50     fEcacft  ice  cteavn  30 
Sltazasc^ino  sfvcT^et  40  Cfiocofate  vMow-sse  35 

2ovnpabot4-Z'  pfovM^iet-c,  peacPi-  savt'Ce.40 
!Eot.t  bu'  y<xiu,t  30  ^ot^govv^r-ofa  30  &hau\  30  eFz-uU* 

^'VC'VicXx  coffee,  bevm-tasse  15  'Su-z-^isfv  coffee  20 

—  492  — 


BILL   OF  FARE 


CARTE  DU  JOUR  DINNER 

Little  Ntck  Cl.iM   30  Cherry  Stone  Clams   30 


Bilad  Onion   Soup   30  Cream  of  Lettuce  witk  PuHed  Crust!   40 

Ckicken  Okra.  Creole   40  Qear  Green  Turtle   SO 

Soft  Clams.   Ancient   60 


ASTRAKAN  CAVIAR    1  25 


SOFT  SHELL  CRABS  40  BROOK  TROUT 

Lobster.  Cardinal    80 

Codfish.  P^rmentier  60 

Sea  Basi  Saute.   Meuniere   40 

Broiled  Brook  Trout.  Maitre  dHotel   65 


Rack  ot  Lamb.  Jardin.ere  90  SprinK  Duckling  Poele  with  Olives    3  50     Half   1  75 

Fried  Ckicken.  Maryland    1  50 

Swc«br«id,  Virginia    1   15 

Lamb  Steak  Saute  in   Butter    1  00 

Toumedos  of  Filet  of  Beef.    Hunter   Style    1  25 

Broiled  Mushrooms  on  Toast    75 


Squab  Turkey   4  00  Spring  Duckling   3  00  Spring   Lamb 

Royal  Squab    I   25  Ribs  of  Beef   60 

Guinea  Hen   2  50  English  Pheasant   3  50 

Egyptian   Quail    1   00 


COLD     DISHES 

Consomme  in  cup  :     Beef  30  Chicken  40  Excelsior  40  OUra  40 

Clam  broth  30 
Hors  d'oeuvre  a  la  Francaise  50  Heart  of  fresh  artichoke,  Czarina  1  00 

Salad,  Henry  IV  75  Leave,  Florentine  75 

Tomato  Surprise  40  Fish  salad.  Parisian  60 

Crab  meat  a  la  Manners  60  Lobster  1  50     half  80 

Salmon,  remoulade  sauce  70 

Supreme  of  Chicken  Jeanette   1  50  Stuffed  boneless  squab  in  jelly  1  50 

Galantine  of  chicken  60  Pate  de  foie-gras  90 

Aspic  of  ham  60  Patty  of  guinea  hen  in  crust  60 

Salads  :  Chicken  90         Lobster  90         Crab  Meat  90 
Beef  salad.  Parisian  60 
Yorkshire  ham  60  Virginia  60  Westphalian  60 


NEW  CORN  3«  Beets  in  Butter  30  NEW  PEAS  40 

FRENCH  PEAS  50  NEW    LIMA  BEANS  50 

Potatoes.  O'Brien   25  Stuffed  potatoes.  Sherry   25  Braised  celery  with  marrow    40 

Succotash   50  Baked  stuffed  egg  plant   35 

Boiled  artichoke.  Hollandaise  sauce   60 

Spinach.  English   30  String  beans  in  butter  40 


SALADS:      Romaine.  Lettuce.  Tomato.  Watercress    30      Cucumber  40      Countess   40 
Chicory   and  Escarole   30 


Puffed  Palmy  Pudding   25 

Apple  Tartlet    13  Pies  :    Cherry.  Cocoanut   25 

APRICOT  AND  PLUMS  30 

CANTELOUPE   40  Peaches   40      with  Cream   50  WATERMELON   40 

Fresh  Blackberries  or   Blueberries     30 

Grape  Fruit  40  Supreme  au  Porto   60 

Peach  Short  Cake  40 

Creme  de  Menthe  Sherbet   50  Iced  Mousse  Alice  40  Iced  Nesselrode  Pudding  50 

■     Iced  Marquise   50 


CHF.ESE  :      Roquefort.  Port-du-Salut.  Gruyere   25  Neufchatel    25. 

Small  Cervais  made  fresh  every  day    25 


ch  coffee,  demi-tasse    15     with  cream  20  Turkish   coffee    30 


ABOVE  DISHES  ARE  SERVED  TO  ONE  PERSON  ONL'Y 

—  493  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


WILD    ANIMALS    BILL    OF    FARE 


If  you  have  wild  animals  it  is  very  ne^cessary  to  kno\» 
how  to  feed  them  and  what  their  food  is   composed  of. 

Deer,  Dybowsky,  Giraffes,  Gnus,  Oryes;  mixed  corn  and 
oats ;    hay. 

vionkeys  and  Chimpanzee:  apples,  bananas,,  cabbagb 
spinach,  boiled  potatoes,  boiled  onions,  boiled  rice,  peanuts, 
Chimpanzee,  add  sherry,  beer  or  port  wine  to  drink  with 
meal. 

Ostriches  and  Emus:  carrots,  beets,  lettuce,  spinach, 
bananas,   apples,    oranges,    alfalfa. 

Kangaroos:  rye  bread,  alfalfa,  cabbage  and  other  vege- 
tables. 

Pythons:    rabbits,    i-ats,    pigeons,   lettuce,    eggs. 

Lions,  Tigers,  Panthers,  Leopards,  Hyenas:  raw  chueft 
steak,    mutton,    veal,    horse    meat. 

Bear:  biscuit,  rice  and  milk,  beef,  rye  bread,  honey,  pine- 
apples,   soup,    com    cakes,    carrots,    apples,    fish. 

Camels:    mixed    corn    oats   and    bran;    hay. 

Hippos    and    Rhinos:     Slumguillion,    hay. 

Elephants:  hay,  oats,  bran  and  salt  mashed  turnips,  beets, 
peanuts. 

Seals:    fish    and    cod    liver    oil. 


—  494  — 


REFERENCES 


REFERENCES 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE 
Washington 

August   7,   1918. 
Dear  Sir: 

Mrs.  Wilson  has  asked  me  to  acknowledge  the  re- 
ceipt of  the  book  you  have  sent  to  her  and  wishes  me 
to  express  her  warm  thanks  for  your  courteous  thought 
of   her. 

Very  sincerely  yours, 

EDITH   BENHAM 
Secretary 
Mr.  Joseph   Cancel 
745  Pine  Street 
San  Francisco,   California 


LOUIS   SHERRY 

New  York  '       ^^^^^  ■ 

June  12th  1918. 
Mr.  J.  E.  Cancel, 
Cooks'  Association, 
140  Mason   Street, 
San  Francisco,  Cal. 

My  dear  Mr.   Cancel: 

I  wish  to  thank  you  for  your  thoughtfulness  in  send- 
ing me  the  "Petite  Encyclopedia  Culinaire",  which  I 
received  with  your  letter  of  June  5th.  I  know  that  it 
will  prove  very  useful  and  interesting. 

Again  thanking  you,  with  best  wishes  I  am 

VTA    'sv^'ffCT       Sincerely, 
\Q^  LOUIS  SHERRY 

—  495  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


LOUIS   MARTIN'S 
New  York   City 

Le   29   Aout   1912. 
Mon  Cher  M.  Cancel, 

Je    vous    adresse    mes    meilleurs    woeux    pour    votre 
succes   et  je  vous  serre  la  main. 
Votre   collegue   et  ami, 

JUSTIN  BALARD, 

Chef  des  Cuisines. 


RITZ^CARLTON   HOTEL 
New  York  City. 

Le  6  Decembre  1910. 
Monsieur   Cancel. 

Cher   Monsieur, 

Veuillez  accepter  tous  mes  remerciements.  J'al 
bien  regu  votre  lettre  et  votre  petit  guide  ou  aide- 
memoire  de  cuisine;  mais  j'aurai  un  grand  plaisir  de 
pouvoir  vous  remercier  de  vive  voix. 

Veuillez,  cher  monsieur,  agreer  I'assurance  de  mes 
meilleurs  sentiments. 

A.  ESCOFFIER. 


WALDORF  ASTORIA 
New  York  City. 
Mr.  Cancel. 

Dear  Sir, 

The  Cancel  Menu  Terms  is  an  innovation  and  a  great 
help  to  our  profession,  and  deserves  to  be  recommended 
highly. 

Respectfully, 

RENE   ANJARD, 
Chef. 

"¥^  <.  —  496  — 


REFERENCES 


THE   WHITE   HOUSE 
Washington,  D,   C. 

My   Dear   Sir: 

Mrs.  Wilson  has  received  your  letter  and  the  menu 
book,  for  both  of  which  she  wishes  me  to  express  her 
many  thanks.  Unfortunately,  all  of  the  reports  in 
regard  to  her  giving  receipts  for  publication  have  been 
erroneous,  but  it  gives  her  much  pleasure  to  accept 
your   little   book.     Believe   me. 

Very  truly  yours, 

ISABELLA  L.   HAYNES, 
Secretary. 
Mr.  J.  Gancel, 

Georgian  Terrace   Hotel, 
Atlanta,  Ga. 


THE  NEW  WILLARD 
Washington,  D.   C. 

October,   21st,   1910. 
Mr.  Joseph  Gancel, 

103   West   64th    Street, 
New  Yory,  N.  Y. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  have  found  your  book,  "Menu  Terms,"  which  you 
kindly  sent  me  sometime  ago,  of  great  assistance  anck 
would  like  to  obtain  two  more  copies.  Please  send 
by  mail  or  express  and  upon  receipt  of  bill  will  remit 
ior  same. 

If  you  have  new  editions,  please  let  me  know.  Upon 
my  next  visit  to  New  York.  I  will  try  and  drop  in  and 
^ee  you. 

With  best  wishes, 

Yours  truly, 

C.  E.  S€HAFFNER, 
Steward. 

—  497  — 


CANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


THE  PLAZA 
New  York  City. 


Le    11    Decembre    1910. 
Monsieur  Joseph    Cancel, 
New  York. 

Cher  monsieur, 

J'ai  bien  regu  votre  brochure  "Menu  Terms"  dont 
je  vous  remercie  infiniment.  Je  trouve  cet  ouvrage  in- 
teressant,  tres  utile;  il  fait  honneur  a  son  auteur,  que 
je  felicite  sincerement. 

Veuillez  agreer.  Monsieur  Cancel,  mes  civilites  em- 
pressees. 

E.  LAPERRUQUE. 


HOTEL   NICKERBOCKER 
New  York  City. 

Le    21    Juin    1909. 
M.   Joseph  Cancel, 

Chef,  Hotel  Belleclaire, 

New   York   City. 
sjox  liohi 
Cher  Monsieur, 

^J'ai  bien  regu  le  "Ready  Reference  of  Menu  Terms" 
que  vous  m'avez  envoye.  Acceptez,  cher  monsieur,  mes 
meilleurs  remerciemeuts  pour  votre  gentillesse  avec 
mes  .compliments  pour  votre  bouquin  que  je  trouve 
tres  valuable. 

A  vous   bien   sincerement. 
^^y^r.--  J.  MIGHATUATI, 

,..,,,,./  Maitre-d'Hotel. 

—  498  — 


WAGES  TABLES 


WAGES 

TABLRS. 

For  Month 

of  30  Days. 

For  Month  of  31  Days. 

$  Per  Month 

Per  Day 

$  Per  Month 

Per  Day 

10 

.33 

10 

.32 

12 

.40 

12 

.39 

14 

.47 

14 

.45 

16 

.50 

15 

.48 

16 

.53 

16 

.52 

.17 

.57 

17 

.55 

18 

.60 

18 

.58 

20 

.67 

20 

.65 

22 

.73 

22 

.71 

25 

.83 

25 

.81 

26 

.87 

26 

.84 

28 

.93 

28 

.90 

30 

1.00 

30 

.97 

32 

1.07 

32 

1.03 

3r> 

1.17 

35 

1.13 

40 

1.33 

40 

1.29 

45 

1.50 

45 

1.45 

50 

1.67 

50 

1.61 

55 

1.84 

55 

1.70 

60 

2.00 

60 

1.94 

65 

2.17 

65 

2.10 

70 

2.23 

70 

2.26 

75 

2.50 

75 

2.42 

80 

2.67 

80 

2.58 

85 

2.83 

m 

2.74 

90 

3.00 

90 

2.90 

95 

3.17 

95 

3.06 

100 

3  33 

100 

3.23 

125 

4.17 

125 

4.03 

150 

5.00 

IBO 

.4.84 

—  499  — 


GANCEL'S      CULINARY      ENCYCLOPEDIA 


WAGE  SCHEDULE 

Basis — Six   Days  to  Week 

Per  Per 

Week  Day 


.05  $  -008 

.10  017 

.15  025 

.20  033 

.25  042 

.50  083 

.75  1.25 

1.00  •      •''67 

2.00  333 

3.00  500 

4.00  667 

5.00 , 833 

10.00 ''•''67 

15.00  2.500 

20.00  3.333 

25.00  4.167 

50.00  8.333 

100.00 16.667 


500  — 


MEMORANDUM 


—  501  — 


MEMORANDUM 


502  — 


MEMORANDUM 


—  603  — 


memora:n^dum 


—  504  — 


MEMORANDUM 


—  505  — 


MEMORANDUM 


—  506  — 


INDEX 


Pages 


Abalone,    etc 165 

Abstract     of     Game    and 

Fish   Laws    472 

Alimentation  for  Children  458 

Anemia     456 

Armadill     171 

Aperitif    422 

B 

Badger     171 

Bamboo  Chrysalis   171 

Barbecue   151 

Beef   178    to  205 

"     Time   to  cook 179 

"     Broiled   ISO 

"     Roasted    180 

"     Saute     180 

"     Terms     180 

"    Miscellaneous    183 

"     Mignon,    etc 187 

Bill    of    Fare    482  to  494 

Bison    and    Buffalo    172 

Bread    375    to  388 

Buffet      427 

Butter     115 


Camel  and  Dromadery   . .   172 

Canap6s    16 

Castor     172 

Cereal   375 

Cheese    388 

Chicken    265 

"     Supreme    &    Breasts  286 

"     Goblet    303 

ClamJ-Bake    150 

Cocktails    423 

Cold    Meats 233 

Beef     234 

Veal     234 

Ivamb    234 

Pork    234 

Chicken    236 

Game     236 

"  Goose    Liver    236 

Fish,   etc.    ..  237 

Cold  Sauce   97 

Coloring     118 

Coulis    114 


Pages 

Crabs     151 

Crawfish    153 

Croquettes  &  Cromesquis     25 

Crust     21 

Crustaceous,    Divers    ....  142 


Diabetes     455 

Digestion     460 

Dogs     172 

Dressings,    Divers    316 

Duck    294 

Dyspepsia,    etc 455 


Eggs    37  to     61 

Elephant    172 

EfntremJets    389    to  407 

Epilepsy     458 

Exotic    Dishes    170 


Fever,   etc 454 

Fish,    Garniture    and 

Sauces    123    to  149 

Flavoring  for  Sweet 
Dishes     434 

Forcemeats  for  Mousse- 
line,  Timbale  and  Que- 
nelles          27 

Frogs'    Legs    154 

G 

Game     304 

Goose    296 

Goose    Liver    296 

Gout.    Rheumatism     457 

Grasshopijer     173 

Guinea  Hen   297 


Ham    228 

Hash    220 

Hippopotamus     173 

Horsemeat    173 

House    Supplies    480 

Hygiene   .- 453 


—  507     — 


INDEX    (Continued) 


Fages 
I 

Ice   Cream    408 

How  to  make  Ice  Cream 
Divers    Compositions.   408 

Biscuits    Glaces    412 

Bombs     .•.•./.•...  413 

Cups     .'. 417 

Fancy   Ice   Cream 419 

Indigestion    459 

Intoxication      459 

Introduction     5 

J 

Jellies    118 

k^ 

Kangaroo     I'^S 

L 

Lam.b •■  212 

"     Time  to  cook    21^ 

"     Terms     213 

"  Chops,   Noisette,  etc.  214 

Lights   237  to  261 

"     Brains,    etc 237 

"     Ears     239 

"     Feet     240 

"     Fries      241 

"     Haslets     242 

"     Heads     242 

"     Hearts    244 

*'     Kidneys     244 

"     Liver 246 

"     Lungs      247 

"     Marrow    248 

"     Palate,   etc 248 

"     Sweetbreads 249 

''     Tail's 259 

.  "     Tongue     259 

"     Tripe       260 

"     Udder    : 261 

Lobster     ^ 156 

M 

Marinade    &    divers  Brine  120 

Mirepoix     97 

Miscellaneous   Recipes 

Arom.atic    433  to  450 

Savorv    433  to  450 

Seasoning    433  to  450 


Fages 

Spices    433  to  450 

Flavoring    for    sweet 

Dishes     434 

Special    Spices    434 

Four  Spices  Home  Style  434 

F'ine    Spices    for    Game  434 

Spices    for    Pork    434 

Cayenne  Pepper 434 

Paprika    434 

Curi'y    Powder    435 

Baking   P'owder    435 

lemical    Refrigerating  435 

Remedy  for  Burns   ....  435 

Cider    435 

Ciment    436 

Corns  and  soft  perspir- 
ing  Feet    436 

Distillation    436 

Degree   cooked   Sugar..  437 

Grease     437 

Modeling    437 

To    com'pound    437 

Flower  Grease    438 

Frying     438 

Degree  for  hot  Grease.  438 

How   to    carve    438 

Jams    440 

General    Rules' 440 

Orange    Marmalade    .  . .  440 

For  sweet  pickled  fruits  441 
Measures 

Length    441 

Capacity     441 

Avoir   du   Poids    441 

Thermometer     441 

For  Household    442 

Time  for  divers  Cooking  442 

Milk 443 

Oil 443 

Perpetual  Vinegar    ....  444 

Diverg   ..:... 444 

Preserves  " . ; . : 444 

Appert  System    445 

Eggs 445 

Olives    445 

Vegetables    446 

Fish,    etc 447 

Plow   to   make   Soap    . .  448 

Javel   Water    448 

Svrup    of    Fruit     448 

Cold  Syrup   449 

Sugar  and   Icing    449 

Tea     449 

Water,  etc ''ISO 

508  — 


INDEX    (Continued) 


Page  3 

Yeast   for   Pastes    450 

Moiis&eline     30 

Mussels     160 

Mutton    212 


References 

Letters    . 

Relishes    . . 


Pag-es 

..       4 

. ..  495 

7 


Opposum,   Pole   Cat,  Ra- 
coon      174 

Oriental   Dishes 

Chinese  and  Japanese..  175 

Ostrich    298 

Oysters    and  Oyster  Crabs  161 


Pantry  List    

Parrots     

Paste  and 

Farinaceous    ....   366  to 
Patties   and   Vcl-au-Vent 

Peacock    

Poisoning     

Pork     

Suckling  Pig-    

Divers   Sausages    

Poulp  and  Cuttle-Fish. . . 
Poultry     

Braised     

Broiled  ' 

Carved    

Divers      

Roast     

Time    to 
Preface     . . 


cook 


475 

174 

375 

192 
298 
459 
225 
226 
227 
174 
282 
262 
263 
264 
263 
263 
264 
3 


Quenelles     29 


Reception  and  Table   .... 

Tlie  Service    

Etiquette   at    the    Table 

Service   of  Wine    

Temperature    of    Wine. 

First    Ser\'ice     

Second  Service   

Third    Service     

Wines    and    Liquors 
served      at      different 
Dinners     

Buffet      and      Refresh- 
ments       427  to 


420 
421 
421 
422 
422 
426 
426 
427 


427 
431 


Salad  351  to  361 

Salpicon  23 

Sample    of    Market    List.   462 

Snakes    174 

Sandwishes     16 

Sauces     95  to  114 

Sausages    227 

Seal    174 

Seasoning    120 

Shellfish     149  to  170 

Soups     62 

Custai^d   or  Royal    63 

Garnishing-s    63 

Thick   and    clear. .   64  to  95 

Spermathoree     458 

Soft   Drinks    429 

Squabs     299 

Sweetbreads     249  to  259 


Terrapin     169 

The   Cellar    431 

To   decant   Wines 432 

Champagne  , 432 

How    to    chill    432 

Clarifying   of   Wine    ...   433 

The  Market    460 

The    Value   and   Laws   of 

Health     451 

Hygiene,    Diet,    Longe- 
vity        453  to  459 

The  Digestion   460 

Timbale    and    Mousseline     30 

Turkev    302 

Turtle   170 


Veal       

Vegetables    

Time    to   cook. 

Artichokes    .  . . 

Asparagus     . . , 

Burdock    

Beans    

String    Beans 

Beets       

Cabbage     


205  to 


211 
318 
320 
320 
322 
323 
323 
324 
324 
324 


—  509  — 


Lanson-Lauray   &   Co.,   Inc.,    Printers 

534   Jackson    St. 

San    Francisco,     Cal. 


